^^..^^  ;^i^\  v./  y^M.  u.^''  y^l^\  v..^ 


'^  -.^j^/  /\  '-^^'  *^''^'^< 


'U-o^ 


-^.-^-^ 


Price  $1.00 


The  Story  Of 

STEEN'S  SYRUP 

And  Its  Famous  Recipes 


The  C.  S.  Steens,  Sr.  are  an  important  part  of  the  C.  S. 
Steen  Syrup  Mill  story;  they  are  the  beginning.  Their  ability 
to  overcome  the  calamity  of  a  lost  crop  by  the  founding  of 
one  of  the  world's  largest  food  processing  companies  ex- 
emplifies the  courage,  fortitude,  optimism,  hard  work,  and 
pioneer  spirit  which  we  call  the  American  way.  Had  they 
surrendered  to  a  crop-killing  freeze,  Vermilion  and  sur- 
rounding parishes  would  have  lost  an  industry  which  has 
been  of  great  value  to  hundreds  of  citizens  of  Southern 
Louisiana.  The  C.  S.  Steens',  Sr.  spirit  is  a  model  for  us  all, 
and  it  is  to  their  memory  and  their  sense  of  the  American 
initiative  that  this  book  is  respectfully  dedicated. 


^\-^lS3L(p 


DINING 

We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  a  conscience,  and  live  without  a  heart; 
We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  without  books; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

We  may  live  without  books — What  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
We  may  live  without  hope — What  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
We  may  live  without  love — What  is  passion  but  pining? 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining? 

Owen  Meredith 


WAKREN  A  BIIRDF-ITIW^ 

POBOX31  gSi 

4«3  HARBOR  DR  SOUTH    p^i| 
INDIAN  RK  BCH  Fl,  33535 


CO 


CO 


hi 


History  of 
The  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill,  Inc. 

Every  Dark  Cloud  Has  A  Silver  Lining 
(One  Storm  Cloud  Had  A  Sweet,  "Syrupy"  Lining) 

Out  of  the  hardship  of  a  heavy  early  freeze  in  1911  de- 
veloped one  of  the  largest  industries  in  Vermilion  Parish, 
The  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill,  Inc.  In  1911,  the  late  C.  S.  Steen, 
Sr.,  founder  of  the  corporation,  had  a  crop  of  600  tons  of 
frozen  cane  standing  in  his  field  and  the  nearest  refinery 
was  6  miles  away.  The  only  transportation  was  by  wagon 
to.  the  railroad  switch  where  each  farmer  was  allowed  to 
transport  one  load  (perhaps  3  tons)  per  day.  At  this  rate, 
Mr.  Steen  knew  the  fate  of  his  crop  would  be  a  field  of  worth- 
less, sour  cane.  This  was  too  big  a  monetary  loss  for  him  to 
take  "sitting  down".  He  began  to  reminisce  about  the  earlier 
days,  during  the  Reconstruction  period  after  the  War  Be- 
tween the  States.  His  father  had  been  a  sugar  boiler  by 
trade  and  he  had  helped  when  his  father's  cane  crop  had 
also  suffered  early  freezes.  With  these  previous  experiences 
in  mind,  he  decided  to  purchase  a  small  mill  from  a  local 
hardware  store.  He  erected  his  little  mill  within  two  weeks, 
ground  what  cane  he  thought  was  acceptable,  and  produced 
three  barrels  of  putrid,  thick,  sour  syrup.  But  his  vision  of 
a  syrup  mill  was  not  to  be  cast  aside. 

The  next  year  he  planted  more  sugar  cane,  aiid  with 
the  cooperation  of  the  elements,  he  ground  his  cane  crop  at 
the  right  stage,  producing  a  very  appetizing  product.  Other 
farmers  began  to  haul  sugar  cane  to  this  new  outlet  and  in 
return  they  took  home  their  families'  supplies  of  sweetnin' 
for  the  year.  It  was  not  unusual  to  see  farmers  riding  into 
town  on  their  mules  pulling  wagons  loaded  with  cane  and 
piled  high  with  wooden  barrels  and  tin  cans  to  be  filled 
with  the  finished  product,  syrup. 

Each  succeeding  year  more  cane  was  ground,  making  it 
necessary  to  enlarge  the  plant  almost  biannually.  By  this 
time  toll  cane  could  not  supply  the  demand  for  Steen's  Pure 
Ribbon  Cane  Syrup,  so  more  cane  was  obtained  from  farmers 
who  normally  sold  only  to  the  sugar  mills. 

The  ensuing  years  may  have  brought  their  share  of 
freezes  and  droughts,  but  the  public  demand  for  good  cane 
syrup  never  diminished.  Housewives  frequently  went  to 
the  mill  with  buckets  to  get  a  good  supply  of  the  hot  syrup. 


The  present  plant,  erected  in  1930,  occupies  three  acres 
of  land  located  in  the  heart  of  Abbeville,  on  the  shady  banks 
of  Bayou  Vermilion.  During  the  part  of  the  year  when  sugar 
cane  is  growing  and  the  mill  is  not  grinding,  plant  mainten- 
ance, building  work,  and  the  loading  and  shipping  of  syrup 
is  handled  by  20  regular  employees.  During  the  period  of 
full  operation,  however,  the  mill  employs  125  men  in  the 
factory.  The  syrup  mill  farms  still  cannot  supply  all  the 
cane  needed  so  extra  cane  is  purchased  from  approximately 
three  hundred  farmers  within  a  radius  of  10  miles,  but  in 
some  instances  the  cane  comes  from  a  distance  of  more  than 
32  miles. 

The  average  "syrup  makin'  "  season  extends  from  mid- 
October  through  Christmas.  Today,  as  in  days  gone  by, 
when  that  certain  crispness  of  autumn  is  in  the  air  and  the 
tantalizing  odor  of  boiling  cane  syrup  floats  over  the  village, 
one  often  sees  a  housewife  or  her  husband  go  to  the  plant 
for  a  fresh  bucket  of  Steen's  Pure  Ribbon  Cane  Syrup  to  be 
"sopped  up"  with  hot  french  bread,  biscuits,  corn  bread, 
waffles,  or  pancakes.  "Comme  delices  du  gourmet,  il  n'y  a 
rien  de  meillieur."  (For  a  gourmet's  delight,  there's  nothing 
better). 

In  the  beginning  Mr.  C.  S.  Steen  worked  with  his  wife 
and  children  expanding  and  building  each  year.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  (1936)  the  mill  was  processing  about  10,000 
Tons  of  cane  into  syrup  annually.  Surviving  children  at 
this  time  were  Daisy  S.  Morgan,  C.  S.  Steen,  Jr.,  Myrtle 
Steen,  and  J.  Wesley  Steen.  Together  with  their  Mother 
they  continued  to  make  syrup.  After  the  death  of  Mrs.  Steen 
in  1938  a  partnership  was  formed  by  her  four  children.  They 
worked  together,  building  and  growing,  until  the  death  of 
C.  S.  Steen,  Jr.  in  1946.  By  this  time  the  production  of  the 
mill  had  doubled  since  the  time  when  the  partnership 
started.  Because  of  the  size  of  the  business  it  became 
necessary  to  form  a  corporation.  As  years  passed  stock  shifts 
took  place  and  ownership  was  transferred  to  J.  Wesley 
Steen,  Lillian  B.  Steen  and  her  son  Albert  C.  (wife  and  son 
of  C.  S.  Steen,  Jr.).  This  new  team  continued  working  to- 
gether, building  and  expanding,  until  1974  when  Wesley 
retired.  Presently,  the  mill  is  under  the  guidance  of  Albert 
C.  Steen,  his  mother  Lillian,  and  Francis  Melebeck. 


Local  citizens  point  with  pride  to  the  fact  that  their 
city  contains  one  of  the  world's  largest  industries  of  its 
type  and  agree  that  The  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill,  Inc.  is  an 
important  asset  to  the  economy  of  the  City  of  Abbeville  and 
Vermilion  Parish. 

SUGAR  CANE  CUTTING 

Prior  to  1967,  early  in  October  of  each  year  approxi- 
mately 300  farmers  in  Vermilion  and  surrounding  parishes 
(counties)  scouted  the  countryside  for  labor  to  cut  and  to 
strip  sugar  cane  by  hand  for  delivery  to  the  C.  S.  Steen 
Syrup  Mill.   This  colonial  method  of  hand  cutting  was  used 
because  no  machine  had  yet  been  devised  to  clean  the  cane 
of  flags  (long  leaves  similar  to  those  on  corn  stalks)  and 
other   foreign   matter.    Farmers    growing    cane   for   sugar 
production  have  used  mechanical  cane  cutters  for  several 
years.   In  this  process,  however,  after  the  stalks  have  been 
cut  they  are  laid  across  rows  in  the  field  and  the  flags  are 
burned  off.    While  burned  cane  was  satisfactory  for  the 
production  of  sugar,  hand  cutting  was  necessary  for  syrup 
manufacturing  because   only  unburned   cane   made  syrup 
with  Steen's  distinctive  golden  color  and  buttery  flavor. 

Although  wages  paid  to  field  workers  were  regulated  by 
the  federal  government,  so  many  deserted  the  fields  for 
the  cities,  welfare  rolls,  and  poverty  programs,  that  some 
mechanical  methods  of  removing  flags  became  necessary  for 
the  survival  of  the  syrup  industry.  Entirely  without  the 
benefit  of  government  funds  or  government  assistance  of  any 
kind,  the  Steens  began  experimenting  with  cane  cleaning 
processes  early  in  1964.   Several  of  the  early  attempts  were 


8 


unsuccessful,  but  finally  a  "tumbling"  process  was  develop- 
ed and  a  pilot  plant  built  in  1966.  ■ 

Combining  the  experience  gained  from  operation  of  the 
pilot  plant  with  fresh  ideas,  a  full-scale  plant  was  built  in 
the  summer  of  1967  which  cleaned  all  of  the  sugar  cane  used 
by  the  mill  that  fall.  Instead  of  attempting  to  remove  flags 
in  the  field,  the  Steen  process  utilizes  conventional  cane 
cutting  machines  which  only  cut  the  stalks  in  the  field§. 

Then  the  cane  is  brought  to  a  cane  cleaning  plant  located 
on  12  acres  of  land,  about  3  miles  from  town.  A  crane  un- 
loads the  cane  onto  a  table,  where  saws  cut  the  stalks  into 
lengths  of  about  20  inches.  Conveyors  carry  the  cut  lengths 
to  large  rotating  cylinders  where  the  cane  is  tumbled,  like 
clothes  in  a  washing  machine  or  dryer.  The  flags  are  broken 
loose  and  separated  from  the  cut  stalks.  As  they  fall  a 
vacuum  pulls  the  trash  away  from  the  sugar  cane.  These 
flags  are  then  caught  by  another  conveyor  and  taken  to  an 
incinerator,  while  the  cleaned  sugar  cane  is  dumped  into 
specially-built  trucks  to  be  delivered  to  the  syrup  mill  in 
town. 

Necessity  was  the  main  reason  for  developing  this  semi- 
automatic, mechanical  process  of  cleaning  cane,  but  there 
have  been  several  other  important  results.  First,  a  traffic 
problem  in  Abbeville  has  been  eliminated.  Before  the  clean- 
ing plant  was  built,  thirty  or  more  farmers'  trucks  would 
line  the  streets  waiting  to  unload.  Only  four  trucks  are 
presently  used,  and  since  two  are  always  being  loaded  or 
unloaded,  only  one  or  two  are  on  the  roads  at  any  time,  and 
none  are  parked  on  the  streets.  The  Abbeville  Chamber  of 
Commerce  has  voted  unanimous  thanks  and  congratulations 
to  the  Steens  for  their  achievement. 

Second,  and  more  important,  the  new  process  for  clean- 
ing sugar  cane  has  gained  the  attention  of  the  entire  sugar 
industry.  Sugar  men  from  domestic  areas  as  well  as  from 
Puerto  Rico,  Australia  and  Hawaii  have  come  to  inspect  the 
plant. 

In  Florida  and  Louisiana,  for  the  production  of  sugar, 
flags  have  generally  been  burned  off  the  cane  stalks.  A  dif- 
ferent process  has  been  used  in  Hawaii,  but  the  result  is  the 
same:  significant  loss  of  sucrose  content.  This  essentially 
means  that  less  sugar  can  be  made  from  the  same  amount 
of  cane.  With  the  Steen  process,  sucrose  loss  is  much  less; 
indeed  the  sucrose  loss  is  not  noticeable.  Experts  have  esti- 


10 


mated  that  this  could  result  in  savings  up  to  a  million  dollars 
a  year  in  the  Louisiana  and  Florida  sugar-producing  areas 
alone.  In  addition,  savings  should  result  from  reduction  of 
maintenance  costs  at  sugar  refineries. 

SYRUP  COOKING 

After  a  thorough  washing  on  the  conveyor,  the  cane  is 
"milled",  almost  shredded  —  in  which  form  the  juice  is 
extracted.  The  residue,  or  "bagasse",  as  it  is  called,  then 
goes  through  a  separate  chute  to  assume  its  end  role  as  fuel 
for  the  boilers.  The  juice  is  cooked  in  large  rectangular 
pans,  in  which  it  boils  only  on  one  end  —  forcing  the  im- 
purities to  flow  toward  the  cool  end  in  the  form  of  a  scum 
that  is  "skimmed"  off  with  wire  nets  and  metal  pans.  The 
juice  then  drains  through  successively  finer  screens  —  some 
of  them  having  over  260,000  holes  to  the  square  inch  — 
which  further  "clarify"  the  liquid.  The  juice  is  then  cooked 
down  in  the  "evaporation"  stage  until  it  reaches  exactly  the 
right  temperature  and  consistency  for  quality  syrup  —  a 
process  almost  completely  automatic.  It  is  then  canned  and 
cooled. 

VISITORS  WELCOME 

Many  interested  people  visit  the  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill 
plant  throughout  the  year,  and  they  are  always  welcome. 
However,  a  very  special  time  of  year  provides  both  a  tourist 
attraction  and  a  native's  pastime.  This  is  the  "grinding 
season"  or  "syrup  makin'  season".  Visitors  enjoy  watching 
the  unloading  of  cane  trucks,  crushing  of  cane,  boiling  of 
cane  juice,  canning  of  syrup,  and  loading  of  the  finished 
product.  While  the  younger  folks  chew  cane,  adults  might 
enjoy  a  cup  of  the  black  French  coffee  continually  being 
dripped.  If  you  are  a  native  old  enough  to  reminisce,  yo' 
might  sense  the  piesence  of  the  ghost  of  the  late  Mr.  C.  S 
Steen,  Sr.  You  might  sense  what  his  satisfaction  would  be 
with  the  continued  success  of  his  dream  begun  in  the  year 
1911  when  his  effort  and  aim  was  primarily  to  salvage  a 
frozen  sugar  cane  crop.  You  might  sense  a  measure  of  pride 
that  the  capacity  of  this  plant  has  quadrupled  since  his 
passing  in  1936. 

11 


,1'   'aK"  }     \     \\ 


?!     Vf 


Cooking  La  Cuite 


12 


If  you  are  near  Abbeville  'tween  October  and  December 
and  decide  to  drop  in  for  a  fingerlickin'  sample  you  won't 
have  any  trouble  finding  the  plant — just  let  the  good  smells 
direct  you.  It  is  obvious  that  the  Steens  are  in  a  "sweet" 
business. 


THE  FINISHED  PRODUCT 

From  Florida  to  California,  from  the  Gulf  of  Mexico 
to  Illinois,  and  in  man}^  foreign  countries,  Steen's  Pure 
Ribbon  Cane  Syrup  is  distributed  under  40  different  brand 
labels.  It  is  packed  and  distributed  in  7  sizes:  2%  oz.  cans, 
No.  IV2  cans,  No.  2V2  cans.  No.  5  cans.  No.  10  cans,  55  gal. 
drums,  and  8,000  gal.  tank  cars. 


LA  CUITE  —  STEEN'S  NEWEST  OLD  PRODUCT 

Several  years  ago,  a  specialty  item  store  owner  con- 
vinced Wesley  Steen  to  cook  a  batch  of  La  Cuite  (pro- 
nounced "la-kweet.")  In  French  "la  cuite"  literally  means 
"The  last  of  the  cooking"  or  "the  remainder",  so  to  speak. 
It  is  cooked  in  an  open  stainless  steel  kettle  which  is  much 
smaller  than  the  other  open  kettles  used  for  cooking  syrup. 
Basically,  "la  cuite"  is  pure  ribbon  cane  syrup  cooked  to  a 
taffy-like  consistency,  completely  free  of  chemicals,  sulphur, 
or  lime.    It  is  the  last. 

In  the  plantation  days,  when  the  variety  of  candies  we 
have  today  didn't  exist,  la  cuite  was  a  very  popular  con- 
fection. Children  would  wrap  it  on  a  stick,  dip  it  into 
chopped  pecans  or  v/alnuts  and  eat  it  very  much  like  an 
all-day  sucker.  It  is  used  exactly  like  plain  syrup,  but  one 
doesn't  need  to  use  nearly  as  much  because  it  is  so  con- 
centrated and  rich. 


13 


The  Steens  are  very  pleased  with  the  reception  La  Cuite 
has  had.  They  are  one  of  the  few  producers.  When  it  was 
decided  to  produce  La  Cuite  for  commercial  consumption, 
old  timers  who  once  made  it  were  consulted  for  information 
about  processing  techniques  and  La  Cuite's  history  to  make 
sure  Steen's  La  Cuite  would  be  completely  authentic.  So, 
truly,  it  is  their  Newest  Old  product. 


14 


GENERAL  HISTORY  OF  SUGAR  CANE* 


The  cultivation  of  sugar  cane  dates  back  so  far  that  we 
have  no  definite  information  as  to  its  place  of  origin.  The 
oldest  records  available  are  those  of  India.  In  this  country 
there  are  records  of  the  sugar  cane  plant  in  the  Institutes 
of  Manu,  showing  knowledge  of  it  over  a  thousand  years 
before  the  Christian  era.  This  country  seems  to  have  the 
most  botanical  evidence  to  support  its  claim  that  the  cane 
is  a  plant  indigenous  there.  At  the  present  time  there  are 
growing  in  India  many  wild  canes  which  show  all  of  the 
characteristics  by  which  we  classify  our  present  cultivated 
varieties.  It  is  very  probable  that  it  was  in  this  country  that 
the  wild,  woody  canes  low  in  sugar  were  developed  by  some 
ancient  people  into  the  sweeter,  large  barreled  cultivated 
kinds  that  are  commonly  called  the  "Noble  canes." 

In  addition  to  botanical  evidence,  folklore  and  ancient 
writings  also  indicate  that  sugar  cane  has  been  known  in 
India  for  countless  centuries.  In  fact,  it  is  recorded  in  the 
sacred  books  of  the  Hindu  race  that  sugar  cane  was  created 
by  a  celebrated  Rishi  of  ancient  times  at  the  request  of  a 
famous  Rajah  of  India.  The  story  goes  that  this  Rajah,  who 
was  named  Trishanku,  aspired  to  live  with  the  gods  during 
his  lifetime,  but  the  Monarch  of  the  Celestial  Regions,  Indra, 
would  not  admit  him.  As  a  consequence,  Vishwa  Mitra,  the 
magician,  was  implored  to  prepare  a  paradise  on  earth,  and 
to  stock  it  with  the  most  marvelous  plants.  Trishanku  occu- 
pied this  garden  for  a  time,  but  later  on  healed  his  quarrel 
with  the  gods,  and  was  admitted  to  the  Celestial  Regions. 
The  paradise  on  earth  was  consequently  of  no  further  use, 
so  it  was  destroyed,  and  all  of  the  luxuries  in  it,  except  a 
few,  were  also  destroyed.  Among  those  left  was  the  sugar 
cane,  which,  with  the  others  remaining,  was  left  as  a  me- 
mento to  the  occult  powers  of  the  Rishi. 

From  India  the  sugar  cane  naturally  spread  to  the  ad- 
joining countries.  It  reached  China  at  a  very  early  date; 
in  fact,  as  early  as  about  766  B.C.,  crude  sugar  was  being 
made  in  China  from  the  cane,  and  the  Chinese  themselves 
claim  that  they  learned  their  methods  of  manufacture  from 
India. 


'See  Notes  on  Page  28. 

15 


Sugar  cane  stalks  can  be  kept  for  some  time  without 
spoiling,  and  as  the  sweet  juice  has  a  nutritive  value,  and  is 
an  appetizing  and  stimulating  food,  stalks  of  cane  were  car- 
ried by  early  native  navigators  on  their  voyages.  By  this 
means  the  cane  was  carried  from  India  and  China  to  the 
Philippines,  Java  and  many  other  of  the  islands  of  the  Pa- 
cific, situated  in  fairly  close  proximity  to  China  or  India.  At 
an  early  date  it  was  further  carried  by  daring  navigators  to 
Hawaii,  Otaheite  and  others  of  the  islands  of  the  South  Pa- 
cific. It  was  found  growing  apparently  wild  in  many  of  the 
islands  of  the  Pacific  when  they  were  discovered  by  the 
Spaniards  and  other  nationals. 

The  extension  of  the  planting  of  sugar  cane  westward 
from  India  is  of  more  recent  date  and  its  course  can  be  more 
readily  traced.  The  Persians,  whose  country  adjoined  India 
on  the  west,  were  naturally  among  the  first  nations  to  re- 
ceive the  cane.  They  not  only  grew  the  cane  for  chewing 
purposes,  but  also  made  considerable  progress  in  sugar  man- 
ufacture. As  early  as  600  A.D.,  Nestorian  monks  at  Gon- 
dishapur,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Euphrates  River,  were  the  first 
people  to  refine  and  to  produce  a  white  sugar. 

Persia  was  conquered  by  the  Byzantines  in  627  A.D., 
Sugar  cane  culture  began  to  gradually  extend  westward  as 
the  Arabs  extended  their  conquests.  The  Arabian  Caliphs 
were  very  much  interested  in  and  in  sympathy  with  the 
useful  arts,  the  sciences  and  agriculture,  and  helped  to  pre- 
serve the  civilization  of  the  ancient  east  and  transmit  it  to 
Europe.  They  carried  the  cane  with  them  as  they  extended 
their  territories,  and  improved  its  cultivation  and  the  meth- 
ods of  manufacturing  and  refining  sugar. 

As  the  cane  spread  along  the  Mediterranean,  along  the 
mainland  and  through  the  islands,  a  thriving  sugar  industry 
began  to  spring  up,  especially  in  Spain  and  Egypt,  but  also 
in  other  countries  and  islands  of  the  Mediterranean. 

The  advent  of  the  Crusaders  to  this  part  of  the  world 
during  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries  caused  the  de- 
velopment of  a  substantial  trade  between  European  coun- 
tries and  Mediterranean  cities.  The  Crusaders  brought  back 
to  Europe  stories  of  the  sugar  cane  and  of  sugar,  and  began 
to  create  a  demand  for  this  agreeable  product.  Venice  be- 
came the  chief  city  for  the  importation  of  European  goods, 
and  the  exportation  of  Oriental  products.  Spices  and  similar 
articles  were  carried  overland  from  the  Orient  to  Venice, 


16 


from  which  port  they  were  shipped  to  other  ports  of  Europe. 
Sugar  was  brought  to  Venice  from  all  parts  of  the  Mediter- 
ranean, and  the  Venetians,  who  had  developed  the  art  of 
sugar  refining  which  they  had  learned  from  the  Arabs,  ex- 
ported the  refined  sugar  to  other  points  of  Europe.  During 
all  of  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries  this  city  held 
practically  ..  monopoly  for  supplying  Europe  with  sugar. 

Meanwhile  the  sugar  cane  was  carried  by  the  Portu- 
guese and  Spaniards  along  their  colonizing  routes.  Henry 
the  Navigator  of  Portugal  had  it  introduced  from  Sicily  and 
Cyprus  to  Madeira  in  1420.  Soon  afterwards  it  was  brought 
by  the  Portuguese  and  Spaniards  to  the  Canaries,  the  Azores, 
the  Cape  de  Verde  Islands,  the  Islands  of  Sao  Thome  and  to 
the  Portuguese  West  Africa  settlements  on  the  mainland. 
The  cane  flourished  wherever  grown  and  a  sugar  industry 
soon  arose  in  these  places.  Moorish  prisoners  of  war  were 
used  to  cultivate  the  crop,  and  it  was  not  long  until  the 
Spaniards  and  Portuguese  were  also  using  slaves  brought 
over  from  Africa. 

Sugar  began  to  be  produced  in  such  large  quantities  in 
these  Spanish  and  Portuguese  colonies  that  the  price  fell, 
and  it  became  more  of  a  general  food.  It  had  hitherto  been 
used  chiefly  in  the  prescriptions  of  physicians  and  in  the 
homes  of  the  wealthy.  This  competition  between  the  sugar 
produced  in  the  Mediterranean  and  the  new  source  began 
to  cause  the  industry  in  the  Mediterranean  to  decline. 

In  1453  the  Turks  captured  Constantinople;  after  this 
they  soon  began  to  extend  their  empire.  In  1461  Trebizonde 
was  conquered.  Soon  after,  the  other  commercial  towns  of 
Asia  Minor  and  all  of  Genoa's  colonies  on  the  Black  Sea  fell. 
Trade  relations  between  Europe  and  Asia  Minor  became 
considerably  restricted,  and  in  addition  the  Turks  restricted 
sugar  production  in  the  conquered  countries.  This  caused  a 
further  decline  of  the  Mediterranean  industry. 

The  Portuguese  and  Spaniards  were  very  anxious  to 
find  an  all-water  route  to  India,  in  order  that  they  might 
share  in  the  profitable  Oriental  trade,  which  Venice  up  to 
that  time  had  held  practically  alone.  Explorers  of  both  na- 
tions were  anxiously  seeking  this  route.  Finally  in  1498  Vas- 
co  de  Gama  rounded  the  Cape,  reached  India,  and  opened 
up  an  all-water  route.  Portuguese  trade  began  to  thrive,  the 
Portuguese  distributing  Indian  and  Oriental  goods  as  well 
as  those  coming  from  their  own  colonies. 


17 


The  discovery  of  an  all-water  route  to  India  by  de  Gama 
put  an  end  to  the  supremacy  that  Venice  had  previously  held 
as  a  trade  center.  She  suffered  greatly  by  the  decline  in 
sugar  production  in  the  Mediterranean,  and  by  the  long 
continuous  wars  with  the  Turks,  who  though  unable  to  con- 
quer her,  were  able  to  cut  off  supplies  and  interfere  with 
trade. 

Spain  also  had  visions  of  trade  expansion,  and  this  ac- 
counts for  the  voyage  of  Columbus  in  1492,  and  his  discovery 
of  America.  The  purpose  of  his  voyage  had  been  to  discover 
a  short  all-water  route  to  India. 

On  his  second  voyage  to  the  new  world  in  1493,  Colum- 
bus carried  with  him  from  the  Canary  Island  to  Hispaniola 
(Santo  Domingo)  both  sugar  canes  and  Canary  Island  cane 
growers.  The  growers  died  and  this  first  shipment  of  cane 
seems  to  have  been  lost. 

A  second  introduction  of  sugar  cane  was  made  to  His- 
paniola in  1506,  by  Pedro  de  Atienza,  under  the  influence  of 
Nicholas  de  Ovando,  Governor  of  the  island.  It  seems  as  if 
the  Spaniards,  even  at  this  early  date,  were  rather  anxious 
to  begin  the  cultivation  of  the  cane  in  these  tropical  parts. 

It  was  not  until  1510  that  the  first  sugar  was  made  in 
the  western  hemisphere.  It  was  made  by  either  Miguel  Bal- 
lestro  or  Aquilon.  The  founder  of  the  industry,  however, 
was  Gonzales  de  Veslosa,  who  in  1515  erected  a  horse  driv- 
en mill  at  Rio  Nigue,  Santo  Domingo,  and  began  to  produce 
sugar.  After  this  initial  start  the  industry  soon  expanded  in 
this  part  of  the  world. 

From  Santo  Domingo  the  sugar  cane  spread  rapidly  to 
other  islands  of  the  West  Indies  and  to  the  South  American 
continent. 

The  Portuguese  and  Spaniards  found  that  the  native 
Caribs  that  were  left  after  the  destruction  carried  on  in  these 
parts  were  not  suited  for  the  cultivation  of  cane.  According- 
ly, slaves  were  brought  over  from  Africa,  and  thus  was  start- 
ed the  ''famous,"  or  rather  "infamous,"  West  Indian  slave 
trade. 

Sugar  began  to  be  produced  in  large  quantities  in  the 
western  hemisphere,  the  British,  French  and  Dutch  also  en- 
tering into  its  production.   For  a  long  time  Brazil  and  Santo 


18 


Domingo  were  the  great  sugar  producers  of  the  world.  The 
sugar  industry  that  had  previously  been  established  in  the 
Spanish  and  Portuguese  colonies  of  the  old  world  were  soon 
supplanted.  The  industry  in  the  Mediterranean  had  long 
since  ceased  to  exist. 


LOUISIANA  HISTORY 

The  introduction  of  the  sugar  cane  to  Louisiana  dates 
from  1751  when  a  shipment  of  it  was  brought  from  Santo 
Domingo  and  was  planted  on  the  plantation  of  the  Jesuit 
fathers,  which  is  now  part  of  the  City  of  New  Orleans.  The 
cane  was  used  for  chewing  purposes.  Many  of  the  prominent 
men  of  the  Colony  of  Louisiana  attempted  to  manufacture 
sugar,  but  none  of  their  efforts  were  successful.  It  appears 
that  at  this  time  the  proper  use  of  lime  in  sugar  manufacture 
and  the  concentration  point  were  not  thoroughly  understood. 

In  1791  a  Spaniard  by  the  name  of  Mendez  erected  a 
sugar  mill  and  decided  to  try  his  hand  at  sugar  making;  he 
employed  a  sugar  maker  named  Morin,  who  had  learned  his 
trade  in  Santo  Domingo.  Mendez  succeeded  in  making  some 
sugar,  and  he  also  appears  to  have  experimented  with  suc- 
cess in  refining  it  on  a  small  scale.  He  did  not  commercial- 
ize his  results  for  some  unknown  reason,  but  was,  however, 
the  first  man  to  produce  a  marketable  sugar  in  Louisiana. 

The  first  successful  sugar  crop  produced  in  Louisiana 
was  that  of  Etienne  de  Bore.  In  1794  de  Bore  bought  a  supply 
of  canes  from  Mendez  and  another  Spaniard  named  Solis, 
both  of  whom  had  plantations  below  New  Orleans.  De  Bore's 
plantation,  by  the  way,  is  now  part  of  Audubon  Park,  and 
on  this  same  property  the  Louisiana  Sugar  Experiment  Sta- 
tion was  located  for  many  years  until  its  removal  to  its  pre- 
sent site  at  Louisiana  State  University  in  the  fall  of  1923 
and  early  winter  of  1924. 

At  the  time  of  de  Bore's  experiment,  conditions  were 
very  critical  in  the  Colony  of  Louisiana.  Many  of  the  colon- 
ists were  on  the  very  brink  of  bankruptcy,  because  the  cul- 
tivation of  indigo,  which  was  their  staple  crop,  had  become 
unprofitable. 

The  experiment  of  de  Bore  was  therefore  watched  with 
much  interest,  and  although  many  of  his  friends  tried  to 
dissuade  him  from  attempting  such  a  rash  undertaking,  he 
held  firm  in  his  resolution  to  try  to  make  sugar.  According- 


19 


i 


ly  he  built  a  mill,  and  employed  the  same  Antoine  Morin 
who  had  successfully  produced  sugar  for  Mendez.  In  1795  de 
Bore  succeeded  in  working  up  his  cane  crop  into  sugar,  the 
amount  made  selling  for  $12,000,  which  in  those  days  was 
quite  a  large  sum  of  money. 


After  de  Bore's  successful  attempt  to  produce  sugar  on  a 
commercial  scale  in  Louisiana,  many  other  planters  entered 
into  sugar  cane  cultivation.  A  thriving  sugar  industry  soon 
became  established  in  Louisiana,  replacing  the  cultivation 
of  indigo. 

For  many  years  the  average  yield  of  sugar  cane  in  Lou- 
isiana ranged  between  16  and  20  tons  per  acre.  The  state 
sugar  crop  averaged  around  300,000  tons  of  sugar  per  year 
and  was  a  source  of  livelihood  for  approximately  500,000 
people.  During  this  period,  one  general  type  of  sugar  cane 
was  grown,  the  so-called  "Noble"  cane,  characterized  by  a 
large  stalk  diameter,  low  fibre  content,  and  a  sucrose  con- 
tent satisfactory  for  sugar  production  under  Louisiana  con- 
ditions. 


In  the  due  course  of  time  the  "Noble"  type  of  sugar  cane, 
Saccharum  officinarum,  L.,  became  infested  with  diseases 
and  the  yield  of  sugar  decreased  from  an  average  of  about 
300,000  tons  per  year  to  a  low  yield  of  47,000  tons  in  1926. 
This  disaster  threw  many  people  out  of  work  and  caused  an 
extremely  heavy  loss  of  property  throughout  the  Louisiana 
sugar  area,  and  for  a  time  it  seemed  that  the  industry  would 
cease  to  exist.  The  loss  of  this  industry  would  have  affected 
not  only  the  people  who  were  directly  dependent  for  their 
livelihood  upon  the  production  of  sugar  in  Louisiana,  but 
farmers  who  raised  food  and  feed  in  the  middle  west,  grow- 
ers of  seed  crops,  particularly  cowpeas  and  soybeans  in  the 
Central  South,  mule  raisers  from  Missouri  north,  tractor, 
implement  and  fertilizer  manufacturers  in  the  industrial 
centers,  would  have  lost  a  large  home  market  for  their 
products. 


Through  the  introduction  from  Java  of  hybrid  sugar 
canes  knows  as  the  P.  O.  J.'s  (Proefstation  Oost  Java),  the 
Louisiana  sugar  industry  was  saved  from  annihilation,  and 
the  production  of  sugar  increased  from  47,000  tons  in  1926  to 
199,000  in  1929. 


20 


other  hybrid  canes  were  introduced  from  India,  and 
were  found  more  suitable  for  growing  in  Louisiana  than 
were  the  P.  O.  J's;  these  sugar  canes  were  known  as  Co. 
281  and  Co.  290,  the  initials  Co.  meaning  that  they  were 
produced  at  the  Coimbatore  sugar  cane  breeding  station  in 
India.  The  latest  commercial  foreign  introduction,  N.  Co. 
310,  was  raised  as  a  seedling  in  Natal,  South  Africa,  from 
seed  obtained  from  Coimbatore,  India.  It  is  rapidly  becom- 
ing an  important  commercial  variety. 

A  continuous  varietal  improvement  program  has  been 
under  way  for  many  years.  The  United  States  Department 
of  Agriculture,  The  Louisiana  Sugar  Experimental  Station, 
and  The  American  Sugar  Cane  League  all  cooperate  closely 
together  in  the  program.  New  sugar  cane  varieties  are  bred 
in  the  United  States  at  Canal  Point,  Florida,  by  the 
U.  S.  D.  A.,  and  in  recent  years  also  at  Baton  Rouge,  Lou- 
isiana, using  the  photoperiod  system  developed  by  the  Bot- 
any Department  of  L.  S,  U.,  and  at  Grand  Isle,  Louisiana. 
Possible  commercial  varieties  introduced  from  foreign  coun- 
tries are  also  tested  and  the  most  promising  released  for 
commercial  cultivation.  An  extensive  system  of  test  fields 
and  seed  increase  stations  is  in  operation. 

At  the  present  time  all  of  the  commercial  sugar  cane 
varieties  are  Canal  Point  seedlings  with  the  exceptions  of 
Co.  290  and  N.  Co.  310. 

LAND  AND  CLIMATIC  NEEDS 

Sugar  cane  by  nature  is  a  tropical  plant  and  usually  re- 
quires from  12  to  24  months  to  reach  maturity.  All  varieties 
do  not  produce  viable  seed  and  some  have  been  known  to 
grow  for  years  without  ever  producing  seed.  The  sugar  cane 
plant  has  gradually  migrated  to  the  sub-tropical  regions  of 
the  U.  S.  A.  and  is  grown  for  sugar  making  in  the  extreme 
southern  part  of  the  United  States.  For  table  syrup  a  limit- 
ed quantity  is  grown  as  far  north  as  a  line  drawn  from  south- 
ern North  Carolina  westward  through  southern  Arkansas. 

Sugar  cane  is  a  giant  member  of  the  grass  family,  and 
requires  a  fertile  well  drained  soil  and  an  abundant  supply 
of  moisture  for  successful  growth.  For  this  reason  it  is  usu- 
ally found  growing  in  the  bottom  lands,  or,  under  favorable 
soil  conditions,  in  the  hills. 

Regardless  of  kind  of  soil,  good  drainage  is  necessary 
for  successful  sugar  cane  production. 


21 


CULTIVATION 

The  sugar  cane  plant  produces  true  seed  as  does  any 
other  grass,  but  these  seeds  are  never  used  for  commercial 
planting.  Since  the  discovery  that  sugar  cane  seed  could  be 
germinated,  this  fact  has  been  taken  advantage  of  by  plant 
breeders  to  secure  new  and  better  varieties  of  sugar  cane. 
Today  the  most  important  sugar  cane  varieties  in  the  world 
are  those  which  were  secured  from  seeds. 


Sugar  cane  is  often  known  as  "Ribbon  Cane,"  and  some- 
times is  confused  with  the  "Texas  Seeded  Ribbon  Cane",  a 
sorghum  cane  and  not  a  true  sugar  cane.  The  sorghum  canes 
differ  from  the  sugar  canes  in  that  they  are  grown  com- 
mercially from  seed,  and  on  account  of  their  difference  in 
sugar  content  are  not  used  for  sugar  making.  The  seed  of 
the  sorghum  plant  produces  a  like  plant;  the  seed  of  the 
sugar  cane  does  not  produce  a  like  plant,  and  this  is  the 
reason  why  sugar  cane  is  grown  commercially  from  the  buds 
or  cuttings,  instead  of  from  the  true  seeds.  These  cutting  or 
whole  stalks,  which  consist  of  a  series  of  joints  each  with  a 
bud,  are  planted  in  furrows,  using  from  one  to  three  contin- 
uous lines  of  stalks  (cuttings)  in  each  row.  These  stalks  (cut- 
tings) are  known  as  "seed  cane,"  in  contrast  to  "cane  seed." 


The  amount  required  to  plant  an  acre  varies  with  the 
diameter  of  the  stalk  and  the  number  of  continuous  lines 
planted  in  a  single  furrow,  usually  requiring  from  one  to 
four  tons  of  "seed  cane"  per  acre.  After  being  placed  in  the 
furrows  these  stalks  are  covered  with  soil  to  a  depth  of  not 
less  than  two  inches  nor  more  than  eight  inches  and  the  soil 
in  the  bed  is  then  packed  around  the  seed  cane  by  means  of 
a  roller.  Depth  of  planting  depends  largely  upon  the  time  of 
the  year  when  the  planting  is  done.  The  deep  planting  is 
done  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  the  seed  cane  against  cold 
weather.  The  planting  season  runs  from  August  through 
March.  Whether  the  crop  is  planted  in  the  fall,  winter,  or 
spring,  it  does  not  grow  off  until  spring,  and  is  harvested  in 
the  months  of  October,  November  and  December.  In  the 
northern  portion  of  the  sugar  cane  growing  area  of  the  Unit- 
ed States,  planting  is  done  in  the  fall,  but  the  seed  cane  is 
preserved  in  mats  or  windrows  protected  against  cold  by 
covering  with  dirt  until  spring,  when  it  is  taken  up  and 
planted. 


22 


In  Louisiana  in  particular,  sugar  cane  is  usually  grown 
in  a  rotation  in  which  the  soil  fertility  is  maintained  through 
the  plowing  under  of  summer  legumes,  mainly  soybean  or 
cowpeas,  preceding  the  planting  of  the  seed  cane.  Winter 
legumes  such  as  Melilotus  indica,  vetches,  and  Austrian  win- 
ter peas  are  recommended  for  planting  on  top  of  the  fall 
planted  sugar  cane  rows  for  soil  building  purposes. 

In  the  spring  the  first  efforts  must  be  directed  toward 
aiding  the  sugar  cane  to  germinate  (send  out  shoots  from 
each  bud  on  the  planted  stalk  of  "seed  cane").  This  is  done 
by  removing  a  large  part  of  the  soil  from  the  immediate  vi- 
cinity of  the  planted  seed  cane,  thereby  allowing  the  heat 
from  the  sun  to  warm  up  the  soil  around  the  stalks.  As  soon 
as  a  sufficient  number  of  buds  on  the  planted  seed  cane  have 
sent  out  shoots  to  provide  a  satisfactory  stand  of  cane,  the 
true  cultivation  of  the  crop  begins.  At  this  stage  of  cane 
development,  we  find  a  great  difference  between  sugar  cane 
and  crops  like  corn,  cotton,  etc.  Every  sugar  cane  plant 
which  comes  from  a  planted  bud  forms  a  series  of  short 
joints  beneath  the  ground  surface,  each  of  which  has  its 
own  bud.  Many  of  these  buds  germinate  and  produce  shoots 
which  are  known  as  suckers. 


An  original  plant  with  its  suckers  is  known  as  a  stool. 
The  final  stand  of  cane  depends  upon  the  number  of  buds 
that  have  germinated  from  the  planted  seed  canes,  together 
with  the  suckers  produced  from  each  original  plant.  Satis- 
factory yields  depend  largely  upon  a  good  crop  of  suckers. 
Some  varieties  are  much  slower  to  sucker  than  others,  and 
such  varieties  must  be  encouraged  to  develop  the  sucker 
crop  by  keeping  most  of  the  soil  away  from  around  the  orig- 
inal plants  until  the  suckers  have  had  an  opportunity  to 
develop. 


Up  until  the  time  when  a  satisfactory  stand  has  been 
secured,  cultivation  consists  in  keeping  the  crop  clean  of 
grass  find  weeds.  After  this,  cultivation  consists  in  gradually 
building  a  row  about  the  stools.  At  this  point  it  is  well  to 
know  that  the  sugar  cane  on  most  soils  is  largely  a  shallow 
rooted  plant,  and  that  its  roots  will  not  penetrate  heavy,  un- 
broken soil.  The  feeding  area  of  its  root  system  is  largely 
dependent  upon  the  providing,  through  early  preparation, 
of  a  deep,  well  pulverized  seed  bed. 


23 


Cultivation  should  be  done  in  such  a  manner  as  to  pro- 
vide this  seed  bed  in  advance  of  root  development.  As  the 
roots  develop,  cultivation  should  be  done  in  such  a  manner 
as  not  to  prune  them.  It  is  a  well  known  fact  that  sugar 
cane  does  not  make  its  best  growth  until  after  cultivation 
has  ceased.  For  this  reason  all  plowing  should  be  discon- 
tinued as  soon  as  possible.  A  good  rule  to  follow  is  to  lay-by 
the  cane  just  before  the  leaves  begin  to  meet  in  the  middles, 
rather  than  to  wait  until  that  time  before  giving  cane  its 
lay-by  working. 

In  that  portion  of  the  United  States  where  cane  sugar  is 
made  and  in  some  of  the  syrup  producing  areas,  more  than 
one  crop  of  sugar  cane  is  harvested  from  a  single  planting. 
The  first  crop  is  known  as  plant  cane,  and  the  cultivation  of 
this  crop  has  just  been  described.  Succeeding  crops  follow 
the  plant  cane  crop  and  are  known  as  stubble  or  ratoon 
crops.  The  cultivation  of  these  crops  differ  from  that  of  the 
plant  cane  crop  in  the  early  cultural  operations.  You  have 
been  told  how  the  young  plants  develop  from  the  buds  on 
the  planted  seed  cane.  The  buds  from  which  the  stubble 
crops  come  are  found  on  the  short  jointed  below-ground 
portion  of  the  sugar  cane  stalk,  known  as  the  rhizome  or 
rootstock.  In  order  to  get  these  eyes  to  germinate  it  is  nec- 
essary to  first  plow  away  a  large  portion  of  the  cane  row, 
leaving  the  stubbles  in  a  narrow  balk.  After  this  is  done 
the  soil  immediately  around  the  rootstocks,  or  stubbles,  is 
loosened  up  with  a  tool  known  as  a  stubble  digger,  or  with 
a  hoe.  The  eyes  on  the  under-ground  rootstock  germinate  in 
the  same  manner  as  do  those  on  the  planted  seed  cane, 
usually  those  deepest  in  the  ground  germinating  first.  After 
a  sufficient  stand  has  been  secured,  the  cultivation  of  stub- 
ble cane  is  practically  the  same  as  the  cultivation  of  plant 
cane. 


HARVESTING 

A  large  portion  of  the  sugar  cane  crop  grown  for  sugar 
making  purposes  is  harvested  by  means  of  mechanical  har- 
vesters. The  harvesters  are  of  two  types.  One  type  of  Har- 
vester cuts  the  stalks  top  and  bottom  and  loads  them  direct- 
ly into  the  tractor  or  mule  drawn  sugar  cane  wagons;  the 
other  type  cuts  the  stalk  top  and  bottom  and  piles  them  in 
heaps  of  several  rows  each,  the  shucks  are  burned  from  the 
piles  of  heaped  sugar  cane  and  then  these  are  loaded  by 
rapid  mechanical  loaders  into  the  sugar  cane  wagons. 


24 


CO 

Si 


25 


Most  sugar  cane  harvested  for  syrup  is  harvested  in  the 
same  manner  as  explained  in  preceding  paragraph,  except 
for  burning  of  the  shucks.  The  cane  with  shucks  or  leaves  is 
hauled  to  a  cleaning  plant  where  it  is  cut  into  20  inch 
lengths  then  run  through  a  separating  plant  that  removes 
the  trash  and  the  cane  is  delivered  to  the  syrup  mill. 

MANUFACTURE 

Sugar  cane  is  processed  in  two  distinct  types  of  plants, 
syrup  and  sugar  factories,  although  sometimes  both  sugar 
and  syrup  are  made  in  the  same  plant.  In  either  case  the 
juice  is  pressed  out  from  the  sugar  cane  stalks  by  passing 
them  between  heavy  grooved  iron  rollers  which  vary  in 
size,  and  from  a  combination  of  two  rollers  turned  by  horses 
to  a  combination  of  sixteen  rollers  turned  by  powerful  en- 
gines. 

Sugar  cane  syrup  consists  of  evaporated  sugar  cane 
juice,  from  which  impurities  have  been  removed  by  skim- 
ming or  filtering,  and  from  which  no  sugar  has  been  remov- 
ed. If  this  same  syrup  is  boiled  until  most  of  the  water  has 
been  removed,  the  sugar  crystallizes  and  a  mixture  of  sugar 
and  molasses  is  obtained  which  is  known  as  a  massecuite. 
When  the  massecuite  is  spun  in  a  rapidly  revolving  machine 
fitted  with  screen  walls,  known  as  a  centrifugal,  most  of  the 
molasses  is  separated  from  the  sugar,  the  molasses  going 
through  the  screen,  while  the  sugar  is  retained.  This  process, 
ordinarily  known  as  drying  of  sugar,  separates  the  concen- 
trated syrup  or  massecuite  into  sugar  and  molasses.  Several 
grades  of  sugar  and  molasses  are  made,  depending  upon  the 
treatment  of  the  juice  before  evaporation.  Both  the  sugar 
and  molasses  may  be  turned  out  for  direct  consumption,  or 
a  "raw"  sugar  and  "blackstrap"  molasses  may  be  produced. 
The  raw  sugar,  usually  called  ninety-six-test  sugar,  is  sent 
to  refineries  where  it  is  further  refined  into  granulated 
sugar  and  refiners'  molasses. 

BY-PRODUCTS 

The  first  manufactured  products  secured  from  sugar 
cane  are  sugars,  syrups,  and  edible  molasses.  By-products 
consist  of  final  molasses  usually  known  as  "blackstrap"; 
fibre,  contained  in  the  stalk  residue  known  as  "bagasse"; 
filter  press  cake,  which  is  the  precipitated  impurities  re- 
moved from  the  sugar  cane  juice  in  the  process  of  manu- 
facturing; and  bagasse  ashes. 


26 


•/  \   \i^     Mmii,:^,  I      ^ 


4^]^m§i     /••] 


^e.V: 


^  /  i 


'^'''^^     ;.i..^^fe'^% 


;    ,..';^'       ■■^'*-    .i^.:^>.''   .v..>^l>       .\:J,    ^ ,,  ^^^^^5^'^^— 


Cooking  The  Syrup  In  Open  Kettles 


27 


Blackstrap  molasses  is  used  for  several  purposes.  A 
great  deal  of  it  is  used  for  the  production  of  ethyl  alcohol. 
A  large  amount  goes  into  the  manufacture  of  cattle  feeds.  A 
limited  quantity  is  canned  and  sold  for  cooking  purposes. 

The  cane  fibre,  which  is  found  in  the  bagasse,  is  used  for 
the  manufacture  of  the  building  board  known  as  "Celotex." 
Celotex  has  an  extensive  use  as  a  finishing  material,  parti- 
cularly where  heat  or  cold  is  a  problem,  and  to  improve  the 
acoustics  in  public  auditoriums  and  halls.  In  recent  years 
considerable  of  the  bagasse  pith  has  been  utilized  as  cattle 
feed,  and  a  limited  quantity  of  the  pith  cells  have  gone  into 
the  manufacture  of  alpha  cellulose.  Dried  bagasse  fibre  is 
also  used  for  poultry  litter  and  for  mulching  purposes.  Paper 
is  now  also  being  commercially  produced  from  bagasse. 

Only  a  limited  amount  of  bagasse  can  be  disposed  of  for 
manufacturing  purposes.  The  greater  portion  of  it  is  used 
as  a  source  of  fuel  for  operating  the  sugar  houses.  The  ash 
from  this  burned  bagasse  is  high  in  potash,  and  during  World 
War  I  considerable  potash  was  recovered  from  bagasse  ash. 
Today  most  of  this  ash  is  put  back  on  the  sugar  cane  fields 
for  whatever  fertilizer  value  it  may  have. 

The  filter  press  cake,  which  is  recovered  in  the  clari- 
fication of  sugar  cane  juice,  is  rich  in  organic  matter  and 
in  lime.  It  also  contains  some  nitrogen,  phosphoric  acid  and 
potash.  This  material  has  a  fertilizer  value  equal  to  barn- 
yard manure,  and  it  is  particularly  valuable  for  renovating 
depleted  soils. 


Note:    The  historical  facts   in  the   early   portion   of  this   section  of  the 
book  are  taken  largely  from  the  works  of: 

Prinsen  Geerlings,  Dr.  H.  C. — The  World's  Cane  Sugar  Industry,  Past 
and  Present. 

Deerr,  Noel — Cane  Sugar,  1921  Edition. 

Browne,  Dr.  C.  A. — The  Development  of  the  Su^ar  Industry  (Renrint 
from    the    School    of   Mines    Quarterly.    Vol.    XXXV,    No.    3.    April,    1914). 

Stuhbs,  Dr.  W.  C. — Origin  an'd  develonment  of  the  Sugar  Industry  of 
TiOuisiana.  CIn  The  Louisiana  Planter  and  Sugar  Manufacturer, 
June  2,  1923). 


28 


WHY  PURE  RIBBON  CANE  SYRUP 
IS  NECESSARY  IN  THE  DIET 

Sugar  cane  syrup  is  made  by  the  evaporation  of  sugar 
cane  juice.  The  juice  is  boiled  down  to  a  point  where  it  con- 
tains from  65  to  67  per  cent  total  sugars  (cane  sugar  and  in- 
vert sugar).  While  it  is  not  quite  as  concentrated  as  syrup 
made  from  molasses  it  has  more  total  sugars  and  the  com- 
position is  the  same,  for  it  comes  from  the  same  raw  product. 

Cane  juice  from  which  syrup  is  made  is  composed  of 
many  valuable  substances,  such  as  ash,  proteins,  amino  acids, 
and  such  minerals  as  magnesia,  iron,  and  calcium. 

Owing  to  its  large  sugar  content,  cane  syrup  is  a  great 
energy-producing  food  product.  Because  of  its  mineral  con- 
tent, it  is  a  fine  tonic  for  adults  as  well  as  children. 

While  syrup  is  marvelous  on  bread,  hot  cakes  and  waf- 
fes,  it  certainly  shouldn't  be  restricted  to  mere  sweetenin' 
uses,  for  its  cooking  possibilities  are  unlimited.  Actually, 
syrup  is  a  staple  ingredient  for  every  home  larder  that  can 
be  every  bit  as  versatile  as  flour,  salt  or  milk — and  even 
more  nourishing! 

Most  mothers  are  natural  worriers  about  whether  they 
are  providing  the  proper  diet  for  their  offspring.  Their 
worries  could  be  put  to  rest,  however,  with  a  daily  serving 
of  pure  ribbon  cane  syrup  in  some  form.  Here  in  South 
Louisiana  "syrup  sandwiches"  are  a  popular  snack,  parti- 
cularly for  the  children  after  school.  In  'Cajun  French  sec- 
tions, cush-cush  (a  favorite  corn  meal  cereal  dish)  is  usually 
always  topped  with  plenty  of  good  thick  cane  syrup.  And, 
of  course  for  countless  healthy  individuals,  "syrup  soppin','' 
is  the  only  kind  of  dessert  worth  mentioning.  This  consists 
of  pouring  a  goodly  quantity  of  syrup  into  your  plate  after 
the  meal  is  finished  and  sopping  it  up  with  hot,  crusty 
French  bread. 

Since  breakfast  is  the  most  important  meal  of  the  day, 
pure  ribbon  cane  syrup — rich  in  iron  and  minerals — is  the 
ideal  accompaniment  for  the  morning  meal.  Makes  child- 
ren more  alert  in  school  .  .  .  adults  industrious  at  work  .  .  . 
for  any  age  person,  it's  the  perfect  "starter".  Make  cane 
syrup  a  part  of  your  table  setting;  it'll  soon  get  to  be  your 
most  pleasant  and  nutritious  eating  habit. 


29 


SYRUP  QUIZ 
Did  You  Know  This  About  Steen's  Pure  Ribbon  Cane  Syrup? 

Carbo-         Cal-          Phos- 
hydrates      cium        phorous        Iron 


I 


% 


% 


*  Cane  Syrup  77.0  .07  .04  .007 
**  Enriched  White  Flour  74.0  .019  .093  .003 
***Corn,  Whole  Grain  Yellow       76.0        .018        .276        .003 

*  Figures  taken  from  U.S.D.A.  Dept.  Bulletin  No.  1378  & 
Technical  Bulletin  No.  22  of  the  Mississippi  Agricultural 
Experiment  Station. 

**  These  figures  taken  from  U.S.D.A.  Miscellaneous  Pub- 
lication No.  572. 


30 


IS  POPEYE  CORRECT? 
WOULDN'T  IT  BE  BETTER  TO  EAT  SYRUP? 
HOW  MUCH  IRON  HAVE  YOU  HAD  TODAY? 


Total  Iron 

Available  Iron 

Milligrams 

Milligrams 

Per 

Per  Cent 

Per 

100  Grams 

Availability 
54 

100  Grams 

Molasses  '*C" 

11.3 

6.1 

Molasses  "B" 

6.0 

85 

5.1 

Molasses  ''A" 

3.2 

97 

3.1 

Molasses 

7.3 

85 

6.2 

Beef  Liver 

8.2 

70 

5.6 

Oatmeal 

4.8 

96 

4.6 

Apricots  (dry) 

4.1 

98 

4.0 

Eggs 

3.1 

100 

3.1 

Wheat 

5.0 

47 

2.4 

Parsley 

3.2 

50 

1.6 

Cabbage 

1.8 

72 

L3 

Mutton 

5.1 

24 

L2 

♦Spinach 

2.6 

20 

0.5 

*  The  American  Journal  of  Digestive  Diseases  reprinted 
Publication  No.  157  from  the  Biological  Research  Labora- 
tory of  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  at  Cam- 
bridge. This  was  a  report  of  study  made  by  Robert  S.  Har- 
ris, Ph.D.,  L.  Malcolm  Mosher,  S.B.,  and  John  W.  M.  Bunker, 
Ph.D.,  all  of  Cambridge,  entitled  "The  Nutritional  Avail- 
ability of  Iron  in  Molasses." 

The  contents  of  molasses  and  cane  syrup  are  basically 
the  same.  They  are  both  made  from  sugar  cane.  In  pro- 
cessing molasses,  most  of  the  sugar  is  removed.  In  pro- 
cessing syrup,  nothing  is  removed.  You  have  all  the  food 
value  v^ith  the  other  valuable  minerals  in  Steen's  Pure 
Ribbon  Cane  Syrup. 


KNOWING  THESE  FACTS  MAKES  IT 

IMPORTANT  THAT  YOU  HAVE 

STEEN'S  PURE  RIBBON  CANE  SYRUP  IN  YOUR  DIET 


31 


Si 


1     "^^ 

'  1 

^ 
S 

a 

l''s.^ 

;|'  g 

a  K 

•Is; 

Co  1-Ci 

/         ^ 


32 


Recipes 


33 


My  Own  Notes 


34 


Appetizers 


APPETIZER  MEAT  BALLS 


Vi  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

V4  cup  milk 

parsley 

1  pound  ground  beef 

2  tablespoons  butter  or 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

margarine 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V4  cup  Sleen's  Syrup 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

V4  cup  prepared  mustard 

onion  tops 

V4  cup  catchup 

Mash  bread  crumbs  with  milk;  add  meat.  Sprinkle  with 
pepper,  salt  and  add  onion.  Toss  lightly  until  ingredients 
are  combined;  form  into  %-inch  balls.  Brown  in  butter  in 
skillet.  Combine  remaining  ingredients;  blend  until  smooth. 
Add  to  meat  balls.  Simmer  8  to  10  minutes,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, until  sauce  thickens  and  meat  balls  are  glazed.  Use 
toothpicks  and  serve  from  chafing  dish  as  hot  hors  d'oeuvre. 
YIELD:   50  meat  balls. 

CANE  CRUSHER  SPARERIBS 

Cut  into  small  pieces  for  out-of-hand  eating 

3  pounds  spareribs  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1  teaspoon  Ac'cent                      3  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

4  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup   2  tablespoons  Worcestershire 
4  tablespoons  prepared  sauce 

mustard  Va  teaspoon  cayenne 

Have  the  sparerib  rack  cut  into  3  lengthwise  strips.  Cut 
strips  into  individual  ribs  for  out-of-hand  eating.  Place  in 
shallow  baking  pan;  sprinkle  with  Ac'cent.  Blend  together 
Steen's  Syrup  and  prepared  mustard;  stir  in  remaining  in- 
gredients. Mix  well.  Brush  spareribs  with  part  of  the  sauce. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350 °F.)  IV2  hours,  brushing  fre- 
quently with  remaining  sauce.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 
To  serve,  turn  into  chafing  dish. 
YIELD:  24  servings. 

Note:  If  desired,  spareribs  may  be  made  in  advance  and  fro- 
zen.  Bake  in  slow  oven  (300°  F.)  until  hot,  about  1  hour. 


35 


Breads 


GRANDMA  LIL'S  GINGERBREAD— BASIC  RECIPE 

^2  cup  shortening  I  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  ginger 
2V^2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

flour  1  cup  hot  water 

Cream  shortening.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  cream  mixture 
until  fluffy.  Blend  in  Steen's  Syrup.  Beat  in  eggs,  one  at 
a  time.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  baking  soda 
and  spices.  Add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  hot 
water.  Turn  into  a  greased  and  wax-paper-lined  9-inch 
square  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  40  minutes. 
Cool. 

YIELD:  12  servings. 

Buttermilk  variation:  Substitute  1  cup  buttermilk  for  1  cup 
hot  water.  Omit  baking  powder  and  increase  baking  soda 
to  11/^  teaspoons. 

Other  variations:  Add  1  cup  chopped  pecans,  or  add  1  pack- 
age 16  oz.  mixed  candied  fruit  or  add  both. 

GINGERBREAD  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

Cut  basic  recipe  in  half.  Arrange  6  halved  pineapple  slices 
around  edge  of  a  9-inch  round  cake  pan,  2  inches  deep.  Place 
whole  pineapple  slice  in  middle;  place  cherries  in  center 
of  pieces.  Pour  in  V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup;  sprinkle  with  ^  cup 
sugar  and  dot  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Turn  batter  into 
prepared  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  40  minutes. 
Invert  immediately  on  serving  plate. 

YIELD  6  large  servings. 

GINGERBREAD  CUPCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS 

Cut  basic  recipe  in  half.  For  cupcakes,  place  paper  baking 
cups  in  fifteen  2%-inch  muffin  pans.  Fill  each  cup  2/3  full 
with  batter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350 °F.)  25  to  30  minutes. 
For  muffins  or  gems,  fill  greased  and  lightly  floured  2  inch 
shallow  muffin  or  gem  pans  1/3  full.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)  12  to  15  minutes. 


36 


STEEN'S  SYRUP  YEAST  BREAD— BASIC  RECIPE 

Syrup  Yeast  Bread  dough  provides  the  basis  for  delicious 
Hot  Cross  Buns — and  the  best  Steen's  Taffy  Cinnamon  Rolls 
ever. 

%  cup  milk  %  cup  luke  warm  water 

1  Va  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  sugar 

6  tablespoons  shortening  3  eggs,  beaten 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  6  cups  sifted  all- 
2  packages  active  dry  yeast  purpose  flour,  divided 

Scald  milk;  pour  into  large  mixing  bowl.  Add  salt  and 
shortening;  stir  until  shortening  is  melted.  Add  syrup;  stir 
to  blend.  Sprinkle  yeast  in  lukewarm  water.  Add  sugar; 
let  stand  5  minutes.  Stir;  add  to  syrup-milk  mixture.  Add 
beaten  eggs;  mix  well.  Stir  in  3  cups  of  the  flour;  beat  un- 
til smooth.  Stir  in  2  to  2V2  cups  remaining  flour  to  make 
a  smooth  dough.  Sprinkle  remaining  flour  on  board;  knead 
dough  gently  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  oiled  bowl; 
turn  once  to  bring  greased  side  up.  Cover  and  let  rise  in 
a  warm  place  (80°  to  85°  F.)  until  double  in  bulk,  about  IV2 
hours.  Divide  dough  in  half,  using  one-half  for  Hot  Cross 
Buns  and  remaining  half  for  Steen's  Taffy  Cinnamon  Rolls; 
or  use  all  the  basic  recipe  for  either.  Better  yet  roll  dough 
about  V2  inch  thick.  Cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter — place  in  2 
inch  deep  pans.  Let  rise  about  11/2  hours  or  until  double  in 
bulk.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  25  minutes.  Break 
open— butter  well— then  drown  with  Steen's  Syrup.  Have 
plenty  of  cold  milk  handy! 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

Roll  ^  Steen's  Syrup  Yeast  Breads  basic  recipe  dough  about 
^  inch  thick.  Cut  with  2-inch  round  cutter  into  24  rounds. 
Place  rounds  in  2  greased  8-inch  round  pans  2  inches  deep. 
Let  dough  rise  about  1 V2  hours,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  25  minutes.  Mix  together  V2 
cup  confectioners'  sugar  and  2  to  3  teaspoons  water.  While 
buns  are  warm,  form  crosses  on  each  with  the  glaze. 

YIELD:  2  dozen  buns. 


37 


STEEN'S  TAFFY  CINNAMON  ROLLS 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

margarine  divided  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  sugar,  divided  V2  cup  raisins 

Melt  butter  in  a  9-inch  square  pan.  Roll  out  remaining  half 
dough  from  Steen's  Syrup  Yeast  Breads  basic  recipe  into  a 
rectangle  approximately  11  x  16  inches.  Brush  top  of  dough 
with  1  tablespoon  of  the  melted  butter.  To  the  butter  re- 
maining in  the  pan,  add  1/3  cup  sugar  and  syrup.  Mix  to- 
gether remaining  1/3  cup  sugar,  cinnamon  and  raisins; 
sprinkle  over  dough.  Roll  up  the  dough  as  for  jelly  roll, 
rolling  the  long  way.  Cut  into  16  slices.  Place  cut  side  down 
in  prepared  pan.  Let  the  dough  rise  for  about  1^/2  hours,  or 
until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  25 
minutes. 

YIELD:  16  rolls. 

STEEN'S  CANE  CUTTERS  PANCAKES 

A  real  breakfast  treat! 


1 V4  cup  sifted  all-purpose 

Va  cup  milk 

flour 

I  egg,  slightly  beaten 

2V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Va  teaspoon  salt 

or 

V4  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

margarine,  melted 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Combine  Syrup 
and  milk.  Add  to  sliglitly  beaten  egg;  stir  in  melted  butter. 
Slowly  add  to  flour  mixture,  stirring  only  until  blended. 
Bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  using  1/4  cup  batter  for  each  pancake. 
Serve  with  butter  and  Steen's  Syrup. 

YIELD:   12  pancakes. 

Note:  To  make  Syrup  Pancakes  or  Syrup  biscuits  from  pack- 
aged mixes,  follow  directions  on  box  and  add  1  tablespoon 
Steen's  Syrup  to  liquid  for  each  cup  of  mix. 


38 


STEEN'S  ORANGE  BREAD 


Vi  cup  sugar 
2y3  cups  sifted  all-purpose 
flour 
V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 
2  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1 V2  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  coarsely  chopped 
nuts  or  raisins 


2/3  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  grated 

orange  rind  (optional) 
V2  cup  orange  juice 
2  tablespoons  salad  oil 
V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 


Sift  together  sugar,  flour,  baking  soda,  baking  powder  and 
salt;  add  nuts.  Combine  milk,  orange  rind,  orange  juice, 
salad  oil  and  Steen's  Syrup.  Add  to  flour  mixture  all  at 
once;  stir  just  enough  to  blend.  Turn  into  well-greased  loaf 
pan,  9  X  5  X  2%  inches.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  (325°  F.)  PA 
hours.   Cool  before  removing  from  pan. 

YIELD:  1  loaf. 


SPICY  SYRUP  DROP  DOUGHNUTS 


Just  the  right  pick-up  with  a  cup  of  hot  coffee! 


cups  sifted  all-purpose 
flour 
teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  baking  soda 
teaspoon  salt 
teaspoon  cinnamon 


1  teaspoon  ginger 
V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  egg 

Va  cup  milk 
Va  cup  salad  oil 
V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 


Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  egg,  milk,  salad  oil  and 
syrup;  mix  well.  Pour  salad  oil  2  inches  deep  in  skillet.  Heat 
to  365°  F.  Drop  in  batter  by  teaspoonfuls;  fry  2  minutes, 
turning  once.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Roll  in  granulated 
sugar  or  cinnamon-sugar  mixture,  or  sprinkle  with  confec- 
tioners' sugar. 
YIELD:    Approximately  3  dozen  doughnuts. 


39 


CORA'S  FRENCH  TOAST 


2  eggs  2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

V2  cup  milk  6  slices  bread 

Vb  teaspoon  salt  Butter  or  Margarine 
V4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  milk,  salt,  cinnamon  and  Steen's 
Syrup,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Dip  bread  in  mixture  and 
brown  on  both  sides  in  small  amount  of  butter  or  margarine. 
Serve  hot. 


CANE  BRAKE  WAFFLES 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  2  egg  yolks 

2  cups  flour  IVa  cups  milk 

3  teaspoon  baking  powder  6  tablespooons  melted 

V2  teaspoon  salt  shortening  or 

2  egg  whites  salad  oil 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Separate  eggs 
and  beat  yolks;  add  milk  and  syrup  to  beaten  egg  yolks;  stir 
in  melted  shortening  or  salad  oil.  Stir  this  mixture  gradual- 
ly into  dry  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Beat  egg  whites.  Fold 
into  batter.  Bake  in  hot  waffle  iron  until  golden  brown. 


40 


I 


My  Own  Notes 


41 


Cakes 


GRANDMA'S  DARK  FRUITCAKE 

If  it's  Fruit  cake  you  plan  to  make, 
Add  Steen's  Syrup  for  a  real  "cool"  cake! 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  2^4  cups  sifted  all-purpose 
V2  cup  water  flour 

2  packages  (15  ounces  each)     V4  teaspoon  baking  soda 
raisins  1 V2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  jars  (1  pound  each)  P/4  teaspoons  nutmeg 

mixed  candied  fruit  ^4  teaspoon  allspice 

1  cup  butter  or  margarine       V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
1 V4  cups  sugar  V2  cup  orange  juice  or 

6  eggs  brandy 

3  cups  coarsely  chopped  nuts 

Blend  together  Steen's  Syrup  and  water  in  a  large,  deep 
sauce  pan.  Place  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until 
mixture  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  raisins,  bring  to  a  boil  again. 
Reduce  heat,  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat;  stir 
in  candied  fruit.  Reserve.  Cream  together  butter  and  sugar. 
Blend  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda 
and  spices.  Add  to  butter  mixture  alternately  with  orange 
juice.  Stir  in  Steen's  Syrup-fruit  mixture.  Stir  in  nuts, 
turn  into  a  wax-paper-lined  10-inch  tube  pan  or  2  wax-pap- 
er-lined 9x5x2%  inch  loaf  pans.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
(325°  F.)  11/2  hours.  Cool. 

YIELD:   One  7-pound  or  two  3V2-pound  fruitcakes. 

STEEN'S  FRUITCAKE  BONBONS 

To  make  fruitcake  bonbons,  take  half  of  the  above  fruit- 
cake mixture.  Place  paper  baking  cups  in  1%-inch  cupcake 
pans.  Spoon  in  fruitcake  mixture.  Bake  in  slow  oven  (325° 
F.)  25  minutes.    Cool  before  storing. 

YIELD:  5  dozen  bonbons. 
42 


OLD  MOM'S  FRUIT  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar)      cream 

1  cup  butter)     together 
1  cup  buttermilk 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

3  eggs 

5  cups  flour 

2  cups  chopped  candied 
pineapple 

2  cups  chopped  candied  dates 

2  cups  chopped  pecans 

2  cups  chopped  candied  figs 


2  cups  raisins 
2  teaspoons  soda 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  cloves 
2  teaspoons  allspice 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  chopped  candied 

citron 
2  cups  chopped  candied 

cherries 
2  cups  chopped  or 

shredded  coconut 


^  Grind 


To  creamed  sugar  and  butter  add  Steen's  Syrup  and  butter- 
milk; add  eggs  one  at  a  time  beating  after  each  addition;  add 
spices;  V2  of  flour  and  soda;  mix  thoroughly;  to  the  chopped 
nuts  and  candied  fruit  add  remaining  flour  and  mix  until 
well  coated — add  to  first  mixture  and  mix  until  you  can't  see 
any  dry  flour — pour  in  well  greased  and  paper  lined  pans; 
bake  3  hours  over  a  pan  of  water  at  a  low  temperature — 
250°  or  300°. 


FRUIT  CAKE 
(Using  La  Cuite) 

(Guaranteed  to  be  moist) 


Vi  cup  salad  oil 
¥4  cup  Steen's  La  Cuite 
2  eggs 
1  Vi  cups  sifted  all-purpose 
flour 
^2  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  allspice 


Vi  teaspoon  cloves 

Vi  cup  fruit  juice  (apple, 

pineapple  or  orange) 
1  lb.  (2  cups)  candied  fruit 

and  peels 
1  box  dates(  chopped) 
1  box  candied  pineapple 
(chopped) 
V2  cup  Muscat  raisins 


214  cups  chopped  nuts 

Combine  oil,  Steen's  La  Cuite  and  eggs  and  beat  for  2  min- 
utes. Sift  together  one  cup  of  the  flour  with  baking  pow- 
der, salt  and  spices  and  stir  into  oil  mixture  with  fruit  juice. 
Mix  remaining  flour  with  fruit  and  nuts.  Combine  with 
batter  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  batter  into  loaf  pan  lined 
with  wax  paper.  Use  8  x  4V2  x  2-inch  loaf  pan  or  tubular 
pan.  Bake  at  275°  F.  for  V^k  to  3  hours.  When  cool,  the  cake 
may  be  decorated  with  candied  fruit  (cherries,  pineapple 
etc.). 


43 


GATEAU  de  SIROP 

(Syrup  Cake)  or  Masse  Pain  (as  it  is  often  called) 
Note:  This  cake  contains  no  sugar 
^2  cup  Vegetable  Oil  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  y^  cups  Steen's  Syrup  ^2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  egg,  beaten  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

2V^2  cups  sifted  flour  IV'2  teaspoons  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  ^^  cup  hot  water 

Heat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  and  flour  a  9-inch  square  pan;  a 
\ZVz  X  81/^-inch  pan;  or  muffin  pan/s. 

Combine  oil,  syrup,  and  beaten  ^gg.  Stir  until  well  blended. 
Mix  and  resift  dry  ingredients  except  soda.  Add  dry  ingredi- 
ents to  the  oil,  syrup,  and  ^gg  mixture  alternately  with  the 
hot  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Begin  and 
end  with  flour  mixture. 

Pour  into  prepared  pan.  Bake  45  minutes. 

Variations:  Chopped  pecans  or  raisins  may  be  added  to  the 

above  mixture. 


FRUITCAKE  COOKIES 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
V4  cup  butter  ^2 teaspoon  cloves 

V4  cup  wine  V^2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  eggs  1  pound  pecans,  cut  fine 

2  cups  flour,  heaping  ^^  pound  raisins 
^2  pound  mixed  cherries,  2  teaspoons  soda 

citron,  and  pineapple  1  y^  tablespoons  milk 

y2  teaspoon  allspice  3  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  wine  and  eggs.  Add  gradually 
one  half  of  the  flour.  Use  rest  of  flour  on  fruit  mixture.  Add 
the  spices.  Mix  all  together;  add  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  add 
Steen's  Syrup  and  mix.  Drop  from  spoon  onto  greased  cook- 
ie sheet.  Put  pan  of  water  under  cookies  and  bake  15  to  20 
minutes  at  325°  F. 

YIELD;  7-8  dozen. 
44 


THE  SYRUP  COOKER  CAKE 

(With  Chocolate) 

2V3  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V2  cup  shortening 

flour  ^4  cup  milk 
1  Vi  teaspoons  baking  powder         2  eggs 

V2  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  cup  S teen's  Syrup 

V2  teaspoon  salt  1  square  ( 1  ounce) 

V2  teaspoon  cinnamon  unsweetened  chocolate 

V2  cup  sugar  melted  &  slightly  cooled 

Sift  together,  flour,  baking  powder,  baking  soda,  salt,  cin- 
namon and  sugar  into  large  bowl  of  electric  mixer.  Add 
shortening  and  milk;  mix  until  blended.  Add  eggs,  syrup 
and  melted  chocolate.  Beat  2  minutes  longer  on  low  speed. 
Pour  batter  into  well-greased  9  x  13  inch  baking  pan.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  about  35  minutes.  Cut  into 
squares  and  serve  with  Taffy  Topping*. 


*TAFFY  TOPPING 

2  egg  whites  2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

Vi  cup  water  */8  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  ^gg  whites,  water,  sugar,  syrup  and  salt  in  top  of 
double  boiler.  Beat  over  rapidly  boiling  water  with  rotary 
or  electric  beater  until  frosting  stands  in  peaks.  Remove 
from  heat;  add  vanilla.  Use  as  topping  for  cake. 

YIELD:  1  quart  or  24  servings. 

45 


STEEN'S  APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

y^  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  applesauce  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  sifted  all-purpose 
flour 

Cream  together  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy; 
blend  in  eggs.  Add  Steen*s  Syrup  and  applesauce;  mix  well. 
Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  baking  soda  and 
spices;  stir  into  syrup  mixture.  Turn  into  greased  and  flour- 
ed 9  x  13-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
30  minutes.  Cut  into  squares.  Serve  warm  or  cold  with  ad- 
ditional applesauce. 

YIELD:  About  24  servings  (small)  or  15  generous  pieces. 


GRANDMA'S  SYRUP  CAKE 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
2  teaspoon  vanilla                      ^4  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Wz  cup  salad  oil  ^/2  cup  milk 

1 V2  cups  f  lour<  measured 
after  sifting 

Combine  all  dry  ingredients  except  sugar.  Beat  ^gg  and 
sugar  until  creamy.  Add  syrup,  mix  well,  add  oil,  mix.  Add 
dry  ingredients,  beat  100  strokes  or  3  minutes  with  mixer  at 
moderate  speed;  add  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix.  Do  not  over 
beat.  Pour  in  pan  or  layers.  Cook  at  375°  F. 


46 


KBaBMsna^^v^r' 


My  Own  Notes 


47 


Candies 

STEEN'S  PULL  CANDY 

Here's  that  "Pull  Candy"  recipe  so  many  of  you  kids,  young 
and  old,  have  been  looking  for.  Furnishes  party  entertain- 
ment as  well  as  refreshment. 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  2-quart  saucepan.  Place  over 
low  heat  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Cook  over  medium 
heat  until  syrup  reaches  272°  F.  on  a  candy  thermometer,  or 
when  small  amount  syrup  dropped  in  cold  water  separates 
into  threads  which  are  hard  but  not  brittle.  Pour  onto 
greased  platter.  As  edges  cool,  fold  toward  center  or  they 
will  harden  before  center  is  ready  to  pull.  When  candy  is 
cool  enough  to  handle,  press  into  ball  with  lightly  buttered 
fingers.  Pull  until  candy  is  light  in  color  and  ready  to  hard- 
en. Stretch  into  long  rope  ^  inch  wide.  Cut  into  1-inch 
pieces.  Wrap  each  piece  of  taffy  in  wax  paper. 

YIELD:    IV4  pounds  candy. 


STEEN'S  PEANUT  BRITTLE 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V^  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  chopped  peanuts 

1  tablespoon  butter  or 
margarine 

Combine  syrup,  sugar  and  butter  in  a  2-quart  saucepan. 
Place  over  low  heat;  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  until  syrup  reaches  270°  F.  on  a  candy  thermo- 
meter, or  when  small  amount  syrup  dropped  in  very  cold 
water  separates  into  threads  which  are  hard  but  not  brittle. 
Remove  from  heat,  stir  in  baking  soda  and  nuts.  Turn  into 
greased  8-inch  square  pan;  spread  quickly.  When  slightly 
cool,  cut  into  squares. 

YIELD:  1%  pounds  candy. 


48 


STEEN'S  PEANUT  BUTTER  LOGS 

Vi  cups  Steen's  Syrup  Va  cup  peanut  butter 

V2  cup  instant  nonfat  dry  milk 

Mix  together  syrup  and  peanut  butter.    Gradually  work  in 

nonfat   dry   milk;   knead   lightly.    Sprinkle   with   a   small 

amount  of  additional  nonfat  dry  milk.  Roll  into  a  long  rope 

%-inch  in  diameter.  Cut  with  scissors  into  1-inch  pieces.  If 

desired,  wrap  pieces  in  wax  paper  or  transparent  plastic 

wrap. 

YIELD:  %  pound  candy. 

STEEN'S  POPCORN  BALLS 

2  cups  Steen's  Syrup  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  margarine 

2  quarts  popped  corn 

Boil  Steen's  Syrup  and  salt  over  a  low  fire,  stirring  constant- 
ly. When  few  drops  tested  in  cold  water  becomes  brittle,  add 
butter.  Pour  over  the  popped  corn,  mix  and  shape  into  large 
balls. 

Variation:  Add  salted  cocktail  peanuts  to  popcorn  before 
adding  syrup,  then  add  syrup  and  make  balls. 

CRACKER  JACK  POPCORN 

1  Popper  full  of  popcorn  or  5  cups      1  cup  of  Steen's  Syrup 
Salted  Cocktail  peanuts 

Boil  syrup  until  hard  ball  stage,  pour  over  popped  corn  and 
mix  thoroughly;  stir  until  all  of  the  popcorn  is  coated.  Add 
salted  cocktail  peanuts  to  popcorn  before  adding  syrup  for 
a  variety.  Double  the  recipe  if  the  children  are  around 
'cause  Steen's  Syrup  is  the  best. 

STEEN'S  SEA  FOAM  CANDY 
Sea  Foam«  as  its  name  implies,  has  a  pleasantly  light  texture. 
2  cups  sugar  2  egg  whites 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  cup  water  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Combine  sugar,  syrup  and  water  in  3-quart  saucepan.  Place 
over  medium  heat.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  boil  with- 
out stirring  until  temperature  on  candy  thermometer  reaches 
250°  F.,  or  when  small  amount  of  syrup  dropped  in  cold 
water  forms  a  hard  ball.  Remove  from  heat.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff;  add  syrup  in  a  steady  stream,  beating  constantly. 
When  mixture  is  stiff,  fold  in  vanilla  and  nuts.  Drop  by 
tablespoonfuls  onto  wax  paper. 
YIELD:  1  pound  candy. 


49 


Cookies 


AUNT  WINNIE'S  SYRUP  COOKIES 

1 V2  teaspoons  allspice 

1  teaspoon  cloves 
5V2  cups  flour 
1  Va  cups  raisins 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 


1  Vz  cups  sugar 
1  cup  butter 
5  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  Steen's 
Syrup  I       mix 

1  level  teaspoon  j  together 
soda  J 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together;  add  eggs;  one  at  a  time. 
Alternate  flour  and  spices,  with  milk.  Add  syrup  that  has 
been  beaten  with  soda  until  golden,  then  raisins  and  nuts 
last.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  cookie  sheet.  Bake  375°  oven  for 
10  minutes,  or  golden  brown.  Use  Steen's  Syrup  for  best 
results. 

STEEN'S  CANE  DERRICK  LOGS 
cups  sifted  flour  %  cup  butter 

cup  confectioners  sugar        V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 
V4  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1 V2  cups  chopped  nuts 
Blend  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Cut  in  butter.  Stir  in  syrup  and 
vanilla  until  dough  is  smooth.  Chill  dough  for  at  least  1 
hour.  Break  off  small  lumps  of  dough  and  shape  into  "logs" 
about  3  inches  long.  Roll  in  chopped  nuts  and  arrange  on 
ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  15  minutes. 
YIELD:  3  dozen  SVz-inch  logs.  (Wonderful!  Serve  with  hot 
tea!) 

SYRUP  LOADED  HERMITS 

You  too  will  want  to  wander  off  like  a  Hermit,  with  the 
cookie  jar,  and  eat  all  these  by  yourself! 

cup  butter  or  margarine         2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

cup  sugar 

cup  Steen's  Syrup 


2>/2 

V2 


eggs 

cups  sifted 
all-purpose  flour 
teaspoon  salt 
teaspoon  baking  soda 


V2 
V2 
V2 

2 

2 

V2 

Va 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 

syrup  and  eggs;  beat  well.   Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking 

soda,  baking  powder  and  spices;  stir  in  raisins  and  nuts. 

Add  to  syrup  mixture;  blend  well.  Spread  evenly  in  greased 

12  X  8  X  2-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°F.) 

30  minutes.   Cool;  cut  into  squares. 

YIELD:  2  dozen  Hermits. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
teaspoon  ground  cloves 
teaspoon  mace 
teaspoon  nutmeg 
teaspoon  allspice 
^A  cup  raisins 
V2  cup  chopped  nuts 


50 


LEBKUCHEN-GERMAN  SPICE  COOKIES 

2V4  cups  sifted  all-purpose  Va  cup  sugar 
flour  1  egg 

V2  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  teaspoon  lemon  rind 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  V2  cup  chopped  nuts 

V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves  V2  cup  diced  candied  fruit 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  sifted  confectioners' 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  sugar 

4  teaspoons  water 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda,  salt  and  spices.  Heat  syrup 
to  boiling  point  in  saucepan  large  enough  for  mixing  cook- 
ies. Add  sugar;  cool.  Beat  in  egg;  add  lemon  rind.  Gradual- 
ly stir  in  flour  mixture,  nuts  and  fruit;  chill  several  hours 
or  overnight.  Divide  dough  in  half;  place  each  half  on  a 
15  X  12-inch  greased  baking  sheet.  Place  wax  paper  over 
top  and  roll  each  into  a  rectangle  9  x  10  inches  Remove  wax 
paper.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  12  to  15 
minutes.  Blend  together  confectioners'  sugar  and  water; 
brush  over  cookies  while  warm.  Cool;  cut  into  2  x  3-inch 
bars.  Store  in  tightly  covered  container. 

YIELD:  21/2  dozen  bars. 

GINGERCRISPS 

Resemble  the  old  time  Gingersnap  cookie — the  ones  in  the 
big  square  can  on  the  rack  of  assorted  cookies  in  the  old 
"General  Merchandise  Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries"  store. 

Va  cup  shortening  1 V2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

Va  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V2  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg  Va  teaspoon  salt 

2^4  cups  sifted  all-purpose  Vs  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
flour 

Cream  together  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Add  syrup  and  egg;  mix  well.  Sift  in  remaining  ingredients; 
mix  thoroughly.  Place  in  freezer  1  hour  or  chill  in  refrigera- 
tor 2  hours.  Form  into  approximately  1-inch  balls;  roll  in 
granulated  sugar.  Bake  on  greased  baking  sheets  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  (375°  F.)  10  to  12  minutes. 

YIELD:    Approximately  4  dozen  cookies. 


51 


MORAVIAN  CHRISTMAS  COOKIES 

4  cups  regular  all-purpose  V4  teaspoon  ground  ginger 
flour  1  cup  packed  light  brown 

V4  teaspoon  baking  soda  sugar 

V4  teaspoon  salt  Vz  cup  butter  or  margarine 

1  teaspoon  ground  V2  cup  lard 

cinnamon  1 V2  cups  Steen's  Syrup 

Vz  teaspoon  ground  cloves  Vz  teaspoon  cider  vinegar 

1.  Blend  the  first  six  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Mix  in 
sugar. 

2.  Cut  in  butter  or  margarine  and  lard.  Add  syrup  and  vine- 
gar gradually,  mixing  thoroughly.   Chill  dough  thoroughly. 

3.  Using  a  small  amount  of  dough  at  a  time,  roll  out  about 
Vs  in.  thick  on  a  lightly  floured  surface.  Cut  with  fancy 
cookie  cutters.    Transfer  to  greased  cookie  sheets. 

4.  Bake  at  350°  F.  8  to  10  minutes.  Remove  to  wire  racks 
to  cool. 

YIELD:    About  6  doz.  cookies. 


BERNARD'S  SUGAR  CANE  CART  WHEELS 

1  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  egg  Va  teaspoon  ginger 

Vz  cup  Steen's  Syrup  Vz  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2V^4  cups  sifted  all-purpose 
flour 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Blend  in 
egg  and  syrup.  Sift  in  flour,  salt,  baking  soda  and  spices; 
mix  well.  Chill  in  refrigerator  1  hour.  Roll  out  dough  Vs 
inch  thick  on  lightly  floured  board  or  pastry  cloth,  keeping 
remaining  dough  chilled.  Cut  with  3-inch  cookie  cutter. 
Bake  on  ungreased  baking  sheets  in  a  moderate  oven  (375° 
F.)  10  minutes. 

YIELD:  3  dozen  cookies. 
52 


AUNT  LUCY'S  LUNCH  BOX  COOKIES 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  1  Va  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Vi  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  Va  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

flour  Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Heat  syrup  to  boiling  point  in  saucepan  large  enough  for 
mixing  cookies.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  shortening  and 
baking  soda.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
spices;  add  to  syrup  mixture.  Chill  8  hours  or  overnight.  Roll 
out  dough  1/16  inch  thick  on  lightly  floured  board  or  pastry 
cloth.  Cut  with  cookie  cutters.  Place  on  a  lightly  greased 
baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  5  to  7 
minutes. 

YIELD:  6V2  dozen  cookies. 

OLD-FASHIONED  SOFT  SYRUP  COOKIES 

V2  cup  shortening  2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg,  unbeaten  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V4  teaspoon  salt 

2  V4  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V2  cup  water 
flour 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  egg 
and  syrup;  mix  well.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda,  gin- 
ger, cinnamon  and  salt.  Add  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  water.  Drop  by  heaping  teaspoonfuls  on  ungreased 
baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  8  to  10  min- 
utes.   Store  in  tightly  covered  container. 

YIELD:  2  dozen  cookies. 

CHEWEY  SOFT  STEEN'S  COOKIES 

V2  cup  soft  shortening  2  cups  flour 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar  (packed)      1  teaspoon  soda 
1  egg  unbeaten  1 V2  teaspoons  ginger 

V3  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

V3  cup  buttermilk  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

Mix  sugar  and  butter  or  shortening  until  creamed.  Add  all 
Steen's  Syrup  and  egg;  then  add  all  dry  ingredients  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Drop  cookie  dough  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  slightly 
greased  sheet.  They  are  very  good  and  chewey. 


53 


SOUTHERN  BOY  OAT  CRISPS 

i  cup  sugar  Vz  teaspoon  salt 

1   cup  Steen's  Syrup  1 V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  salad  oil  2  eggs 

4  cups  quick  rolled  oats 

In  mixing  bowl  put  all  ingredients  except  oats;  beat  until 
blended.  Stir  in  rolled  oats.  Let  stand  8  hours  or  overnight. 
Place  sheet  of  foil  on  baking  sheet;  grease.  Drop  by  level 
tablespoonfuls;  flatten  with  spoon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  10  to  12  minutes  until  golden  brown.  When  cook- 
ies are  cold  they  may  be  easily  peeled  off  foil.  Cookie  mix- 
ture may  be  kept  in  refrigerator  and  baked  as  needed. 

YIELD:   4  dozen  3-inch  cookies. 


1 


DEEP  SOUTH  PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

You  use  only  one  mixing  bowl,  one  cup  and  2  spoons  to 

mix  these! 


%  cup  shortening 

1  egg 

V2  cup  sugar 

2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

V4  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  peanut  butter 

V4  teaspoon  baking  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  together  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Add  syrup,  peanut  butter  and  egg;  blend  well.  Sift  together, 
flour,  salt,  baking  soda  and  baking  powder.  Stir  into  syrup 
mixture.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  onto  ungreased  baking 
sheet.   Bake  in  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  10  to  12  minutes. 

YIELD:    Approximately  2  dozen  cookies. 


54 


LAGNIAPPE  COOKIES 

'Cause  they  are  extra  big! 

Vi  cup  shortening  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

V2  cup  water  1 V2  teaspoon  ginger 

1   cup  Steen's  Syrup  V2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

3V2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V4  teaspoon  allspice 

flour 
Cream  together  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Combine  water  and  syrup.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking 
soda  and  spices.  Add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with 
water  and  syrup,  blending  well  after  each  addition.  Chill  in 
bowl  in  refrigerator  overnight.  Roll  out  dough  y4-inch  thick 
on  lightly  floured  board  or  pastry  cloth.  Cut  into  rounds 
with  a  4  inch  cookie  cutter.  Place  4  at  a  time  on  greased  bak- 
ing sheets.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  10  to  12  min- 
utes. To  store,  place  in  tightly  covered  container. 
YIELD:  IV2  dozen  cookies.  Bake  'em  big.  Don't  walk  your- 
self to  death  going  back  to  the  cookie  jar!) 

STEEN'S  GINGERBREAD  BOYS  CUTOUT 
COOKIES 


V2  cup  shortening 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  sugar 

V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg,  separated 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

2  cups  sifted  all-purpose 

1  teaspoon  ginger 

flour 

1 V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Cream  together  shortening,  sugar  and  syrup.  Add  egg  yolk; 
mix  well.  (Reserve  egg  white  for  frosting.)  Sift  together 
flour,  salt,  baking  soda,  baking  powder  and  spices.  Stir  in 
flour  mixture;  mix  well.  Chill.  Roll  out  dough  V4  inch  thick 
on  lightly  floured  board  or  pastry  cloth.  Cut  with  5-inch 
gingerbread  boy  cookie  cutter;  place  on  ungreased  baking 
sheets.  Decorate  with  raisins  or  nuts,  if  desired.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  8  to  10  minutes.  Cool.  Decorate  with 
*Ornamental  Frosting!.  (Allow  yourself  a  real  treat  and  have 
children  around  while  these  are  baking  so  that  you  can  tell 
the  "Gingerbread  Boy"  story.) 
YIELD:  2  dozen  cutouts. 

•ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING 
Sift  together  IV4  cups  sifted  confectioners'  sugar  and  Vs  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar.  Add  reserved  egg  white  and  V4  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Beat  with  rotary  or  electric  beater  until 
frosting  holds  its  shape.  Cover  with  damp  cloth  until  ready 
to  use. 


55 


AL'S  COOKIES 


1  cup  shortening 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  white  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup 
Vi  cup  sour  milk 


2  teaspoons  of  soda 

4  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
V2  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  sugars  and  shortening,  add  egg,  then  syrup.  Put  soda 
in  sour  milk,  add  to  mixture  alternately  with  flour  and 
spices.  Chill  overnight.  Bake  325°  for  about  10  to  12  minutes. 


PAGE  BOY  COOKIES 


2  Vi  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter 

2  eggs 


V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 


4V2  cups  all-purpose  flour 
V2  teaspoon  salt 

sifted  with  flour 
2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  nuts 


1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
4  tablespoons  hot  water 

Mix  in  order  given.  Roll  and  chill  overnight,  slice  and  bake 
(about  10  minutes  at  325°).  This  makes  a  very  crisp  cookie 
and  if  stored  in  a  tight,  closed  container  will  remain  crisp 
for  several  weeks.  Rolls  of  cookie  dough  may  be  frozen  and 
baked  as  needed. 

YIELD:  About  7  dozen. 


56 


My  Own  Notes 


57 


Dessert  Sauces 

We  all  love  to  dress  up  that  plain  cake  or  pudding  with  a 
Sauce.  Maybe  you  like  a  sauce  on  ice  cream.  The  following 
all  contain  Steen's  Syrup.  Steen's  Syrup  makes  the  best 
better! 

STEEN'S-RUM  FRUIT  SAUCE 

1  can  (20  oz.)  cling  peach  halves  Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

1  can  (I  lb.)  bing  cherries,  pitted  Vi  cup  light  rum 

Drain  peaches  and  cherries;  reserve  syrup  for  fruit  punches. 
Place  peach  halves  and  cherries  in  saucepan.  Combine  syrup 
and  rum;  add  to  fruit  mixture.  Place  over  medium  heat; 
heat  to  serving  temperature.    Spoon  hot  over  ice  cream. 

YIELD:  8  servings. 

Note:  To  flame,  heat  V4  cup  of  the  rum  separately;  pour  into 
center  of  peach  and  ignite.  If  desired,  fruit  may  be  heated 
in  chafing  dish. 

STEEN'S  APPLE  TAFFY  SAUCE 

Wonderful  with  meats. 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Va  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  can  (20  oz.)  apple  slices 
V4  teaspoon  salt                            V4  cup  water 

Va  teaspoon  nutmeg  Va  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Mix  together  cornstarch,  sugar  and  spices  in  a  saucepan. 
Stir  in  liquid  from  apples,  water  and  syrup.  Add  apple 
slices.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  carefully,  until  mix- 
ture thickens  and  comes  to  a  boil.  Boil  1  minute  and  serve 
hot. 

YIELD:  21/2  cups  sauce. 

MAGGIE'S  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

1  package  (6  oz.)  semi-sweeet      V3  cup  evaporated  milk 
chocolate  pieces  V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Combine  semi-sweet  chocolate  pieces  and  evaporated  milk 
in  top  of  double  boiler.  Place  over  hot  (not  boiling)  water; 
stir  until  chocolate  is  melted.  Blend.  Stir  in  syrup.  Spoon 
over  ice  cream. 

YIELD:  1%  cups  sauce. 
58 


•a — ■rfrltrinaag; 


STEEN'S  PEANUT  BUTTER  SAUCE 

1  cup  evaported  milk  %  cup  peanut  butter 

Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Gradually  add  evaporated  milk  to  peanut  butter,  blending 
until  smooth.   Stir  in  syrup.    Spoon  over  ice  cream. 

YIELD:  2  cups  sauce. 

STEEN'S  PINEAPPLE  SAUCE 
1  can  (9  oz.)  crushed  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

pineapple  margarine 

V4  cup  Steen's  Syrup  ?.  tablespoons  rum,  optional 

Combine  pineapple,  Steen's  Syrup  and  butter  in  saucepan. 
Bring  to  a  boil;  simmer  5  minutes.  Add  rum.   Serve  hot  or 
cold  over  ice  cream. 
YIELD:  Approximately  1  cup  sauce. 

WESLEY'S  SUNDAE  SAUCE 
V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  pinch  salt 

V2  cup  honey  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pecans 

Blend  together  syrup  and  honey.    Stir  in  salt  and  vanilla. 
Spoon  over  ice  cream;  top  with  pecans. 
YIELD:  1%  cups  sauce. 

BUTTERY  SUNDAE  SAUCE 
V2  cup  butter  V2  cup  evaporated  milk 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V2  cup  pecans 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan;  add  sugar  and  syrup.  Bring  to  roll- 
ing boil;  reduce  heat  and  boil  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Remove  from  heat;  cool.    Stir  in  evaporated  milk,  vanilla 
and  pecans.   Spoon  hot  or  cold  over  ice  cream. 
YIELD:  1%  cups  sauce. 

MANDY'S  RAISIN  SAUCE 
V4  cup  sugar  Va  cup  orange  marmalade 

1 V2  teaspoons  dry  mustard  Vs  cup  raisins 

1 V2  tablespoons  cornstarch  Vi  cup  cider  vinegar 

Va  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

1 V2  cups  water  margarine 

V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 
Combine  sugar,  mustard,  cornstarch  and  salt  in  saucepan. 
Gradually  stir  in  water,  syrup,  marmalade  and  raisins.  Cook 
over  medium  heat  until  mixture  thickens  and  comes  to  a 
boil.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  vinegar,  butter.  Serve  with 
ham.    Makes  2  cups. 


59 


My  Own  Notes 


60 


"fTT*^  W,  r-l-n-i^^t^i  I   I  Mil  I  IB"  ■  rr 


Drinks 


Delicious  and  nutritious  because  Steen's  Syrup  is  added! 
HOT  SYRUP  SPICED  CIDER 

4  slices  lemon,  cut  in  halves    Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 
12  whole  cloves  2  cinnamon  sticks,  2  in.  long 

2  quarts  cider  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Stud  lemon  slices  with  cloves.  Combine  cider,  syrup,  cinna- 
mon and  lemon  slices  in  a  large  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
reduce  heat  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Remove  cinnamon 
sticks.  Add  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot  in  mugs. 

YIELD:  8  servings. 

SIS'S  MILK  LASSIE 

(For  Calorie  Counters) 

Vi  cup  instant  nonfat  dry  milk     3  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 
1  qt.  milk,  whole  or  skim 

Add  the  nonfat  dry  milk  and  Steen's  Syrup  to  fresh  milk. 
Shake  or  beat  until  light  and  frothy,  or  until  the  dry  milk 
has  been  completely  blended.  Keep  in  refrigerator  and  use 
cold  during  the  day  between  meals,  and  hot  as  a  delicious 
nightcap. 

YIELD:  4  to  5  servings. 

STEEN  CHILDRENS'  TAFFY  MILK 

Use  1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup  for  each  cup  milk.  Add 
syrup  to  milk,  stir  or  shake  well.  Serve  immediately  or  re- 
frigerate until  ready  to  use.  Taffy  Milk  may  be  made  with 
hot  milk  and  served  in  mugs.  Use  cinnamon  stick  as  stirrer, 
or  top  with  whipped  cream  or  marshmallow. 

YIELD:  1  serving. 

SIS'S  MILK  SHAKE 

Rich  in  iron  and  calcium! 

1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup  1  cup  cold  milk 

Dash  cinnamon 

Combine  syrup,  milk,  cinnamon,  shake  well.  Serve  immed- 
iately. Serves  1. 


61 


GRINDING  SEASON  TODDY 

A  fine  chill-chaser  on  frosty  days! 

1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup  1  cup  milk,  heated 

Dash  nutmeg 

Add  Steen's  Syrup  to  milk;  mix  well.  Top  with  dash  of 
nutmeg.  Serves  1. 

CANE  PLANTATION  EGG  NOG 
"Rich  in  nourishment  and  a  real  treat!" 

1  egg,  separated  1  cup  cold  milk 

2  teaspoons  Steen's  Syrup  Few  grains  salt 

Few  grains  nutmeg 

Beat  egg  yolk;  add  Steen's  Syrup;  mix  well.  Add  milk,  salt 
and  nutmeg.  Beat  egg  white  stiff;  fold  in.  Serve  at  once. 
Serves  1.  (If  no  objection — add  one  jigger  of  "Nog".) 

STEEN'S  MALTED  MILK 

Very  nourishing,  very  tasty! 

1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup  3  tablespoons  malted  milk 

1  cup  cold  milk 

Blend  together  Steen's  Syrup  and  malted  milk.  Gradually 
add  milk,  beating  with  rotary  beater.  Serve  immediately. 
Serves  1. 

STEEN'S  BANANA  MILK  SHAKE 
Soda-fountain  "oomph"! 
1  medium  fully-ripe  banana     Few  grains  salt 
1  cup  cold  milk  1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup 

Few  drops  vanilla  extract 

Mash  banana  with  fork  until  smooth;  add  milk,  salt,  Steen's 
Syrup  and  vanilla  extract.   Shake  well.   Serve  1. 

WESLEY'S  PLANTATION  FRIZZ 
A  grand  "cooler-offer"  for  torrid  days! 
2  lemons,  grated  rind  4  cups  water 

2  oranges,  grated  rind  Vz  cup  lemon  juice 

12  whole  cloves  1  cup  orange  juice 

V4  cup  sugar  Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Mint  sprigs 

Combine  lemon  rind,  orange  rind,  cloves,  sugar  and  2  cups 
water;  simmer  5  minutes.  Strain;  cool.  Combine  with  re- 
maining water,  lemon  and  orange  juice  and  syrup.  Pour  over 
ice  in  tall  glasses.  Top  each  with  sprig  of  mint.  Serves  4-6. 


62 


'  '"»*--  ■» 


My  Own  Notes 


63 


Fruit  Desserts 


STEEN'S  BAKED  APPLES 

6  apples  1  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons  sugar 

^2  cup  chopped  pecans  2  tablespoons  oleo 

2  tablespoons  raisins  Few  drops  red  coloring 

Wash,  and  core  apples.  Place  in  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  lemon 
in  cavities  to  prevent  discoloring.  Mix  pecans  and  raisins  and 
fill  center  of  each  apple  with  this  mixture.  Mix  syrup,  sugar, 
oleo  and  red  coloring  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  about  half 
this  syrup  mixture  over  apples.  Bake  in  400°  oven  for  about 
30  to  35  minutes.  In  the  last  15  minutes  of  this  time,  baste 
the  apples  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  syrup  mixture. 
When  apples  are  done,  baste  them  with  the  syrup  from  the 
bottom  of  the  baking  dish.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Top  with 
whipped  cream.  For  calorie  counters  whipped  cream  is  not 
necessary.  The  flavor  of  Steen's  Syrup  is  satisfying  enough. 

TAFFY  PEACH  MERINGUES 

Pretty!  Good!  Yummy! 

1  can  (29  oz.)  peach  halves,      2  egg  whites 
drained  Vi  cup  sugar 

Vz  cup  Steen's  Syrup  Vi  cup  heavy  cream 

4  teaspoons  butter  or  margarine 

Put  drained  peach  halves  in  shallow  baking  pan.  Drizzle 
with  syrup  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven 
(450°  F.)  10  minutes.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry. 
Gradually  add  sugar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Pour  cream 
around  peaches.  Pile  meringue  on  top  of  each  peach  half. 
Return  to  oven  5  minutes,  or  until  meringue  is  lightly 
browned.    Serve  peaches  with  pan  sauce. 

YIELD:  7  to  8  servings. 


64 


STEEN'S  BROILED  GRAPEFRUIT 

Low  in  calories.  Fine  for  appetizer  or  dessert. 

Cut  grapefruit  into  halves.  Cut  around  each  section,  loosen- 
ing fruit  from  membrane.  (Do  not  cut  around  outer  edge 
of  fruit;  cut  only  within  the  membrane  of  each  segment,) 
Top  each  grapefruit  half  with  1  tablespoon  Steen's  Syrup. 
Place  on  broiler  rack  3  inches  from  heat.  Broil  slowly  10  to 
15  minutes,  or  until  grapefruit  is  slightly  browned  and  heat- 
ed through. 

CALYPSO  BANANAS 

6  Green  tipped  firm  Va  teaspoon  salt 

bananas  1  tablespoon  rum  flavoring 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  tablespoon  grated  orange 

or  margarine  rind 

Vz  cup  Steen's  Syrup  Vs  cup  flaked  coconut 

Peel  bananas.  Place  in  baking  dish.  Combine  butter,  syrup, 
salt,  rum  flavoring  and  orange  rind.  Spoon  over  bananas; 
sprinkle  with  coconut.  Bake  in  375  degree  oven  15  to  18 
minutes,  basting  occasionally.  Makes  six  servings. 

STEEN'S  DEEP  DISH  APPLE  CRISP 

6  cups  sliced  cooking  apples      5  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

(4  large  apples)  divided 

Vi  cup  sugar«  divided  3  tablespoons  butter  or 

Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg  margarine 

V^  teaspoon  salt  Va  cups  sifted  all-purpose 

V2  teaspoon  cinnamon/ divided       flour 

Pare  and  core  apples;  cut  into  Vs-inch  thick  slices.  Mix  to- 
gether V4  cup  of  the  sugar,  nutmeg,  salt  and  Va:  teaspoon  of 
the  cinnamon.  Alternate  apples  and  sugar  mixture  in  a 
greased  6  x  10  x  2-inch  casserole.  Spoon  4  tablespoons  of  the 
syrup  over  top.  Mix  together  remaining  V4  cup  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  syrup,  V4  teaspoon  cinnamon,  butter  and  sifted 
flour  to  a  crumb  consistency.  Sprinkle  evenly  over  casse- 
role. Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  50  minutes.  Serve 
warm  with  Steen's  Hard  Sauce*. 

YIELD:  6  servings. 

65 


*  STEEN'S  HARD  SAUCE 

Vs  cups  butter  or  margarine     1  tablespoon  milk 
2Va  cups  sifted  confectioners'     2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 
sugar 

Cream  butter.  Add  confectioners'  sugar  alternately  with 
milk  and  syrup. 

YIELD:  1%  cups  sauce. 

TAFFY  TOPPED  FRUIT 

Nice  accompaniment  for  roast. 

2  cans  (16-20  oz.  each)  fruit  Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine, 

(peach  halves  or  slices,  melted 

pear  halves,  pineapple  Vi  cup  chopped  pecans  or 

slices  or  chunk,  or  fruit  walnuts 

cocktail)  Ve  teaspoon  ginger  or  nutmeg 
V»  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Drain  syrup  from  1  can  of  the  fruit:  (reserve  to  add  to  fruit 
punch).  Turn  drained  fruit  into  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Com- 
bine remaining  ingredients;  spoon  over  fruit.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  15  minutes.  If  desired,  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

YIELD:  6  servings. 


66 


Main  Dishes 


STEEN'S  QUICK-BAKED  BEANS 

1  can  pork  and  beans  Vi  teaspoon  j^r spared 
V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  mustard 

Bacon  strips 

Place  beans  in  casserole,  mix  with  Steen's  Syrup  and  mus- 
tard. Place  bacon  strips  across  top  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  bacon  is  brown  and  crisp. 

FRANK'S  FRANKFURTER  APPLE  BEAN  BAKE 

Va  cup  Steen's  Syrup  2  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
3  tablespoons  prepared  sauce 

mustard  2  cans  (1  lb.  each)  baked 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  beans 

lemon  juice  1  can  (20  oz.)  apple  slices 

1  pound  frankfurters 

Combine  syrup  and  mustard  in  mixing  bowl;  stir  in  vinegar 
and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add  baked  beans  and  apple  slices; 
toss.  Turn  into  2-quart  casserole.  Top  with  frankfurters. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  45  minutes. 

YIELD:  8  servings. 

STEEN'S  BAKED  HAM 

1  ham  precooked  V2  cup  bread  crumbs  (whole 

1  cup  Steen's  Syrup  cloves,  pineapple  slices  &  red 

2  tablespoons  prepared  cherries  for  decoration  if 
mustard                                      desired) 

Remove  wrappings  from  ham  but  do  not  remove  rind.  Re- 
wrap  losely  in  inside  wrapper  or  heavy  foil.  Place  fat  side 
up  on  rack  in  shallow  uncovered  pan.  (If  preparing  butt  or 
shank  end  of  ham  instead  of  whole  ham,  place  cut  side 
down.)  Bake  in  325°  F.  oven  about  18  minutes  per  pound  for 
whole  ham.  Half  an  hour  before  done,  remove  paper  and 
rind,  score  fat,  stud  with  cloves  and  arrange  pineapple  slices 
and  cherries  for  decoration  if  desired,  and  cover  with  a  glaze 
made  by  mixing  Steen's  Syrup  and  bread  crumbs.  Finish 
baking  at  the  same  low  temperature  325°  F.  until  glazed. 


67 


My  Own  Notes 


Barbecue  Specialties 

Steen's  Syrup  added  to  Barbecue  Sauce  tends  to  give  that 
golden  color  to  barbecued  meats. 

STEEN'S  BASIC  BARBECUE  SAUCE  NO.  I 
Vi  stick  oleo(  or  butter)  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

V2  onion,  chopped  2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Cook  chopped  onion  in  oleo  until  onion  looks  clear.  Add 
Steen's  syrup,  lemon  juice.  Mix  all  together  well.  Will 
yield  enough  sauce  to  barbecue  one  fryer.  Let  the  fryer 
halves  cook  on  pit  (or  oven)  until  skin  looks  a  little  dry — 
then  brush  on  the  sauce  several  times  during  the  cooking. 
The  Steen's  Syrup  produces  that  extra  golden  color  to  bar- 
becued meats. 

STEEN'S  BASIC  BARBECUE  SAUCE  NO.  II 
1  stick  oleo  2  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

1  bottle  catsup  (small)  1  tablespoon  Lea  &  Perrins 

1  bottle  sherry  wine  1  teaspoon  mustard 

(cooking  sherry)  V4  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

(refill  catsup  bottle)  Hot  sauce  to  taste 

1  lemon — cut  into  quarters 

Melt  oleo  in  saucepan,  add  other  ingredients  in  order  given, 
and  heat  only  until  sauce  simmers. 

FRANK'S  BARBECUED  FRANKFURTERS 
Va  cup  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce    V2  cup  tomato  catsup 

2  tablespoons  1  pound  frankfurters 
Worcestershire  sauce 

Blend  together  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
catsup  in  skillet.  Place  over  medium  heat;  bring  to  a  boil. 
Add  frankfurters  and  simmer  10  minutes,  turning  occasion- 
ally. Serve  on  plate  or  in  toasted  frankfurter  rolls.  Spoon 
any  remaining  sauce  over  top. 

YIELD:  4  to  6  servings. 

Appetizer  Barbecued  Frankfurters:  Follow  same  procedure 
as  above,  cutting  frankfurters  in  1-inch  pieces  before  adding 
to  barbecue  sauce.   Serve  hot  from  chafing  dish. 

BARBECUED  HAMBURGERS 

Brush  top  of  each  hamburger  with  1  tablespoon  Basic  Bar- 
becue Sauce  2  minutes  before  end  of  cooking  time. 


69 


BARBECUED  MEAT  LOAF 

Vi  cup  Basic  Barbecue  sauce  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  cup  tomato  juice  Va  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs  V2  teaspoon  thyme 

3  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  3  pounds  ground  beef 

1  medium  onion,  1  can  (1  pound,  14  ounces) 

finely  chopped  peach  halves,  drained 

V4  cup  finely  chopped  (optional) 
parsley 

Combine  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce,  tomato  juice  and  eggs  in 
large  bowl;  beat  until  blended.  Mix  in  bread  crumbs,  onions, 
parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  thyme.  Add  ground  beef,  mix  well. 
Form  into  a  loaf  in  a  shallow  baking  pan.  If  glaze  is  desired, 
brush  with  additional  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  (350°  F.)  IV2  hours,  brushing  occasionally  with 
Basic  Barbecue  Sauce  for  glaze.  For  barbecued  peaches, 
brush  peach  halves  with  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce  and  add  to 
pan  15  minutes  before  end  of  cooking  time.  Put  the  meat  loaf 
on  a  platter  and  ring  the  platter  with  barbecued  peaches. 
YIELD:  12  servings. 

BARBECUED  SPARERIBS 
5  to  6  pounds  (2  racks)  spare-    1  teaspoon  chili  powder 
ribs,  cut  into  serving  pieces    1  tablespoon  celery  seed 
1  lemon,  thinly  sliced  2  tablespoons 

Salt  Worcestershire  sauce 

Va  cup  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce  V2  cup  tomato  catsup 
Place  spareribs,  meat  side  up,  in  shallow  baking  pan. 
Sprinkle  with  salt.  Top  with  lemon  slices.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  (350°  F.)  20  minutes.  Combine  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce 
with  remaining  ingredients.  Brush  spareribs;  turn  and  con- 
tinue baking  1  hour  longer,  basting  frequently. 
YIELD:  4  to  6  servings. 

OVEN  BARBECUED  CHICKEN 
3  whole  broiler-fryer  1  tablespoon 

chickens  Worcestershire  sauce 

Salt  V2  teaspoon  thyme 

V2  cup  Basic  Barbecue  Sauce  Va  teaspoon  tarragon 
Sprinkle  salt  lightly  in  cavity  of  each  chicken.  Secure  open- 
ings; truss  chickens.  Combine  remaining  ingredients.  Place 
chickens  in  shallow  baking  pan  and  brush  with  barbecue 
mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  30  minutes  per 
pound.  (Allow  IV2  hours  for  a  3  pound  chicken.)  Brush 
chickens  occasionally  with  barbecue  mixture  during  baking. 
YIELD:  12  servings. 


70 


My  Own  Notes 


71 


Pies 


STEEN'S  SOUTHERN  GENTLEMAN  PECAN  PIE 

V4  cup  butter  or  margarine  V4  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  all-purpose  flour     1  cup  pecans 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch  2  eggs 

1 V2  cups  Steen's  Syrup  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  sugar 

Unbaked  pastry  for  1  medium  sized  pie 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  cornstarch  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Then  add  Steen's  Syrup  and  sugar  and  boil  3  min- 
utes. Cool.  Add  beaten  eggs,  nuts  and  vanilla,  blending  well. 
Pour  into  pan  lined  with  unbaked  pastry.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
(450°  F.)  10  minutes,  then  reduce  to  350°  F.  and  bake  30  to  35 
minutes. 

GRANDMA  STEEN'S  LEMON  TAFFY  CHIFFON  PIE 

Syrup  teams  up  with  lemon  to  provide  a  chiffon  pie  of  in- 
comparable lightness  and  flavor. 

1  envelope  unf  lavored  4  eggs,  separated 


gelatine 

1  tablespoon  grated 

V2  cup  sugar,  divided 

lemon  rind 

Vs  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  heavy  cream. 

%  cup  water 

whipped,  divided 

V3  cup  lemon  juice 

1  baked  pastry  shell. 

Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

9  inches  in  diameter 

Nutmeg 

Mix  together  gelatine,  V4  cup  of  the  sugar  and  salt  in  sauce- 
pan. Beat  together  water,  lemon  juice,  syrup  and  egg  yolks; 
add  to  gelatine  mixture.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring 
ccnstantly,  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  about  4  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat;  stir  in  lemon  rind.  Chill  until  mixture 
mounds  slightly  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Beat  egg 
whites  until  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Gradually  add  remaining  1/4 
cup  sugar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Fold  in  gelatine  mixture. 
Fold  in  half  the  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  prepared  pastry 
shell;  chill  until  firm.  Garnish  with  remaining  whipped 
cream  and  sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 

YIELD:  One  9-inch  pie. 

72 


SYRUP  PIE 

Unbaked  Pie  Shell  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  Steen's  syrup  3  eggs 

1  small  can  Pet  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs;  add  Steen's  Syrup;  beat  in  1  small  can  Pet  milk,  2 
tablespoons  flour,  and  vanilla.  Pour  in  unbaked  pie  shell. 
Bake  in  medium  oven  until  knife  inserted  in  center  of  filling 
comes  out  clean. 


HARVEST  PUMPKIN  PIE 

Va  cups  sugar  Vs  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
1  tablespoon  all-purpose  flour  Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  canned  pumpkin 

1  teaspoon  ginger  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  evaporated  milk 

V4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  unbaked  pastry  shelL  9  inches  in  diameter 

Sift  together  sugar;  flour,  salt,  and  spices  into  mixing  bowl. 
Add  syrup,  pumpkin  and  eggs;  mix  well.  Stir  in  evaporated 
milk.  Pour  into  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  (400°  F.)  50  minutes,  or  until  knife  inserted  in 
center  of  filling  comes  out  clean. 

YIELD:  One  9-inch  pie. 


"THE  COLONEL'S"  MINCEMEAT  PIE 

1  package  (9-ounce  V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

dehydrated  mincemeat)  2  medium  apples,  peeled, 

1  Va  cups  water  cored  and  finely  chopped 

Pastry  for  2 -crust,  9-inch  pie 

Turn  mincemeat  into  a  two  and  one-half  quart  sauce  pan; 
add  water  and  stir  until  lumps  are  broken.  Stir  in  syrup  and 
apples.  Place  over  medium  heat  until  mixture  comes  to  a 
boil.  Boil  rapidly  one  minute.  Line  pie  plate  with  half  the 
pastry;  turn  in  mincemeat  mixture.  Top  with  pastry;  flute 
edges.  Cut  slits  in  top  of  pastry  to  allow  steam  to  escape. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  (425°  F.)  30  minutes. 


73 


SHOOFLY  PIE 

1 V2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V3  cup  butter  or  margarine 

flour  Va  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

V2  cup  sugar  H  cup  water 

V2  teaspoon  nutmeg  V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  unbaked  pastry  shell, 

Vb  teaspoon  salt  9  inches  in  diameter 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Add 
butter;  cut  in  with  two  knives  or  pastry  blender  to  resemble 
coarse  meal.  Combine  syrup,  water  and  baking  soda.  Pour 
into  unbaked  pastry  shell;  spoon  coarse  meal  mixture  over 
top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  35  minutes.  If  desired, 
serve  with  Lemon  Sauce*. 

*LEMON  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  tablespoon  grated 

V2  cup  sugar  lemon  rind 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  cups  water  V4  cup  butter  or  margarine 

Mix  together  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt  in  saucepan.  Grad- 
ually stir  in  water.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
boils  and  is  thickened  and  clear.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in 
remaining  ingredients.    Serve  warm. 

YIELD:  21/4  cups  sauce. 


74 


Puddings 


PLUM  PUDDING 


Hostesses  in  Dinwiddle  County,  Virginia,  have  used  this 
recipe  for  plum  pudding  since  the  days  when  the  faithful 
slave  butler  bore  it  to  the  festive  table,  aflame  with  brandy 
which  had  been  poured  over  it  and  lighted.  The  recipe  has 
been  handed  down  through  several  generations. 

Vi  cup  fruit  juice  with  wine  1  pound  seedless  raisins 
or  brandy  flavoring  added     1  pound  currants 

2^2  cups  fine  dry  Va  cup  nutmeats  (mixed) 

breadcrumbs  2^2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

2  teaspoon  soda  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cloves  2  cups  Steen's  Syrup 

1  teaspoon  allspice  2  cups  buttermilk 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg  1  Vz  cups  finely  chopped  or 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  ground  suet 

2  teaspoon  salt 

Prepare  fruit  and  nutmeats  and  dredge  with  1  cup  of  the 
flour.  Beat  eggs  until  light  and  fluffy,  add  syrup,  then  but- 
termilk, suet  and  flavored  fruit  juice.  Stir  in  bread  crumbs, 
then  remaning  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  soda,  spices 
and  salt.  Add  dredged  fruits  and  nutmeats  and  mix.  Pour 
into  two  greased  3  pound  molds,  cover  and  steam  for  3  hours. 
Cool  puddings,  wrap  in  heavy  wax  paper  and  store.  The 
puddings  keep  for  weeks  in  a  cool  place.  Re-steam  and  serve 
hot  with  your  favorite  hard  sauce. 


75 


STEEN'S  BREAD  PUDDING 

4  cups  French  bread  cubes  3  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

or  crumbs  (packed  and  2  eggs 

rounded  off)  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  can  condensed  milk  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  milk 

Mix  condensed  milk  and  plain  milk.  Add  Steen's  Syrup. 
Pour  over  bread,  stir  in  well  and  let  soak  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Beat  eggs  and  salt  well.  Add  to  bread  and  milk 
mixture.  Stir  all  together  well.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Pour  in 
two  quart  buttered  baking  dish.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  one  hour  or  until  firm. 
Serve  warm  or  cold.  Top  with  whipped  cream. 

YIELD:  6  generous  servings. 

(For  variation  add  V2  cup  coconut  to  milk  and  bread  mix- 
ture, or  add  two  mashed  bananas.)  Also  delicious  served  with 
Lemon  Sauce  recipe  on  page  74. 


INDIAN  PUDDING 

A  dessert  well  worth  the  time  preparing 
4  cups  milk,  divided  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  yellow  corn  meal  V4  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  Steen's  Syrup  V2  teaspoon  ginger 

Heat  2  cups  milk  over  low  heat  in  a  2-quart  saucepan.  Mix 
corn  meal  with  V2  cup  cold  milk;  stir  into  scalded  milk.  Con- 
tinue to  cook,  stirring  frequently,  about  10  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat;  stir  in  butter  and  syrup.  Combine  salt, 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  ginger;  stir  into  cornmeal  mixture; 
add  remaining  11/2  cups  milk.  Pour  into  lV2-quart  casserole. 
Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  (250°  F.)  3  hours. 

YIELD:  6  servings. 


76 


SOUTHERN  PLANTATION  PUDDING 

2Va  cups  sifted  all-purpose  V2  cup  butter  or  margarine 
flour  1  cup  Steen's  Syrup 

V4  cup  sugar  1  cup  water 

V4  teaspoon  nutmeg  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  Vz  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  packages  (3  ounces  each) 
Vi  teaspoon  salt  cream  cheese 

2  tablespoons  milk 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Add 
butter;  cut  with  two  knives  or  pastry  blender  to  resemble 
coarse  meal.  Combine  syrup,  water  and  baking  soda.  Al- 
ternate layers  of  crumbs  and  liquid  in  a  greased  8-inch 
square  pan,  beginning  and  ending  with  crumbs.  Stir  gently 

2  or  3  times  with  fork.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
1  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  blend  together  cream  cheese 
and  milk.  Cut  cake  into  squares;  place  spoonful  cream 
cheese  on  top  of  each  square.  Top  each  serving  with  Lemon 
Sauce,  see  recipe  on  page  74. 

YIELD:  12  servings. 


77 


My  Own  Notes 


^8 


1 


Vegetables 


GLAZED  CARROTS 

1  bunch  carrots  3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

2  tablespoons  S teen's  Syrup 

Scrape  or  pare  carrots  thinly.  Leave  whole  or  cut  in  half. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  almost  tender.  Remove 
and  drain.  Heat  syrup  and  butter  in  skillet;  add  carrots. 
Turn  over  and  baste  occasionally. 

Yield:     Four  servings. 

Note:  IV2  pounds  cooked  tiny  white  onions  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  carrots. 


STEEN'S  LOUISIANA  YUMMY  YAMS  'N'  APPLES 

6  medium  sized  boiled  yams  5  tablespoons  (heaping) 
(or  one  1  lbs.  can  yams)  Steen's  Syrup 

1  Delicious  apple  Vi  stick  oleo 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Dash  of  cinnamon 

Butter  baking  dish.  Slice  yams  and  place  in  baking  dish. 
Peel  and  thinly  slice  the  apple  over  the  yams.  Sprinkle  the 
apple  slices  with  lemon  juice.  Mix  oleo,  syrup  and  dash  of 
cinnamon  and  bring  to  boiling.  Pour  over  yams  and  apples. 
Wonderful  served  with  pork  or  ham. 


79 


DEEP  SOUTH  GLAZED  ACORN  SQUASH 

(Or  cut  cushaw  into  2-inch  squares  and  follow  same  di- 
rections as  for  Acorn  Squash.) 

3  acorn  squash  1  tablespoon  grated  orange 

y^  cup  Steen's  Syrup  rind 

^2  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

y^  cup  chopped  nuts  (optional)       or  margarine 

Wash  squash  and  halve  them  lengthwise;  remove  seeds  and 
stringy  portion.  Place  squash,  cut  side  down,  on  a  greased 
shallow  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F.)  30 
minutes.  While  squash  is  baking,  combine  remaining  in- 
gredients. Remove  squash  from  oven;  turn  right  side  up. 
Divide  syrup  mixture  among  the  squash  halves.  Return  to 
oven  and  bake  approximately  30  minutes  longer,  or  until 
squash  is  tender. 

YIELD:  6  servings. 

LOUISIANA  CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

y^  cup  butter  or  margarine         1  one  pound  can.  sweet 
V2  cup  Steen's  Syrup  potatoes 

Melt  butter  in  skillet  or  pot;  stir  in  syrup.  Pour  the  can  of 
potatoes  in  skillet  or  pot;  turn  to  coat  with  syrup  mixture. 
Cook  over  medium  heat  until  glazed,  about  15  minutes,  turn- 
ing and  basting  occasionally. 

YIELD:  3  servings. 

CAJUN  ORANGE  GLAZED  SWEETS 

yi  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  butter  or 

2  teaspoon  cornstarch  margarine 

yz  cup  Steen's  Syrup  2  one  pound  cans  sweet 

Vz  cup  orange  juice  potatoes 

Combine  sugar  and  cornstarch  in  heavy  skillet.  Stir  in 
syrup  and  orange  juice;  add  butter.  Bring  to  a  boil;  add 
potatoes.  Simmer  30  minutes,  turning  occasionally. 

YIELD:  6  servings. 


80 


Sandwich  Spread 


SPREAD  IT  WITH  STEEN'S 

For  that  sandwich  spread 

For  that  last  snack  before  you  jump  into  bed! 

Its  energy  packed! 

You  won*t  feel  half  dead. 


STEEN'S  SANDWICH  SPREAD 

2  tablespoons  peanut  butter      2  tablespoons  Steen's  Syrup 

Mix  well  until  of  spreading  consistency.   Delicious! 


FRENCH  BREAD  FLOAT 

Cut  off  nose  of  French  bread.  Dig  out  the  center  of  the  nose 
leaving  a  "well".  Butter  around  this  hole  well  with  oleo  or 
butter.  Fill  with  Steen's  Syrup.  Bring  back  childhood 
memories! 


OTHER  SUGGESTIONS 

1.  Quick  Breakfast  (8  to  10  minutes). 

Bake  canned  biscuits  8  to  10  minutes.  Butter  (or  for 
a  calorie  counter,  don't  butter).  Place  baked  biscuits  in 
plate  and  simply  pour  on  Steen's  Syrup. 

2.  Delicious  on  cornbread,  pancakes,  hot  cakes,  battercakes, 
waffles,  french  toast,  fritters,  hot  French  bread,  or  rolls. 

3.  Pour  over  ice  cream,  as  sauce. 

4.  Doctors  suggest  its  use  in  Baby  Formulas  and  Milk 
Shakes. 


81 


My  Own  Notes 


82 


f(  hi  n 


TABLE   OF   CONTENTS 

1.  History  of  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill,  Inc. 6 

2.  General  History  of  the  Sugar  Cane 15 

3.  Why  Pure  Ribbon  Cane  Syrup  is  Necessary 

in  the  Diet 29 

4.  Recipes 

Appetizers   35 

Breads  36 

Cakes  42 

Candies  .... 48 

Cookies  50 

Dessert  Sauces  58 

Drinks  61 

Fruit  Desserts 64 

Main  Dishes  67 

Barbecue  Specialties 69 

Pies - 72 

Puddings 75 

Vegetables  79 

Sandwich  Spread  81 

Other  Suggestions  For  Use  of  Steen's  Syrup 81 


Compiled  and  edited  by 
Mrs.  J.  Wesley  Steen         ^x 
Illustrations  by  Ben  Earl  Looney 


H    4^   d2 


STEEN'S  SYRUP  is  made  and  put  up  only  by 
The  C.  S.  Steen  Syrup  Mill,  Inc.,  Abbeville,  La. 


.V 


3.^-^^ 


>^-> 


