Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 


Prom  the  Collection  of 
Wllma  Lord  Perkins 


I  I 


I 

i 


1 


•  V 


-•I 


■'s%'^ 


UCGEgpFUL^ 

jloUpEl^EEpEI^ 


^kT\ukl  of  lfiiivei*^kl  ^pplidktion, 


BaPEClALLT  ADAPTED  TO  THE  EVERT  DAT  WA2fTB  OF 
AMERICAN  HOUSEWIVES; 


SEVKRAL  THOUBAND  THOBOUOHLT  TESTED  AND  APPROVED  RECTPES,  OARE 

AMD  CUL-TCBE  OF  CHILDREtf.  BIRDS,  AMD  HOUSE  PLANTS;  FLOWER 

AND  WDfDOW  GAKDBKINa,  ETC.;  WITH  MANY  VALUABLE 

EHITB  ON  HOaX  DECORATION. 


DETROIT,  MICH. 
M.  W.  ELLSWORTH  &  COMPANY. 


I 


(c-  HO 


OOFTBIOHT  BT 

M.  W.  Ellsworth  and  F.  B.  DiOKSBaoH, 

1882.    ^ 


■  I 

!i 

I 


L 

I 

\  I 


'd 


N 


)  TO ( 

WHO  DELIGHT 
IN  MAKING  HOMB  A  PLAGE  OF  PEACE,  COMFOBT 

AND  BNJOTlfENT, 
THIS  BOOK  IS  BESPECTFULLT  DEDICATED. 


J 


i 


^0: 


S'. 


ft  • 


ILLUSTRATIONS, 


1 


BRroE'B  Gakb 42 

Chbistmas  Cakb, 60 

Wedding  Came, T^ 

Floating  Island,                                            90 

COQXTBTTEB  OF  RiCB, '          ....  107 

Christmab  Plum  Pudding, 120 

Eggs  a  la  Bonnb  Fbmme, 154 

Mtishbooms, 184 

Potato  PiB.            284 

BscnoN  of  Bullock, 272 

Beef, 278 

Sheep. ,       ...  278 

liAMTt,                                                .......  «7v 

Calf,        .        .               275 

Aitchbone  OF  Beef,                      277 

Brisket  OF  Beef, 278 

Ribs  OF  Beef, 280 

Sirloin  OF  Beef, 281 

Roast  Quarter  OF  Lamb,     .               290 

Leg  OF  Mutton 294 

Back,          ....                       ...  295 

Fowl,  to  Carve, ' .  .816 

GoosB,      "              '       ...  817 

House  Pests, 858 

Sleep 447 

AquARiUM  IN  Window, 489 

Tank, 490 

Tank  (2) '491 

Marine  A<iUARiUM, 495 

Trellibed  Window, 510 

514 

Creepers, 516 

Window  Garden, 526 

527 

Ferneries, .       .  529 


PREFACE. 


N  the  compilation  of  this  work,  we  have  striven  to  give  the 
greatest  amount  of  information  possible,  consistent  with  the 
plan  adopted,  and  to  so  arrange  it  that  any  subject  sought  can 
be  easily  and  quickly  found;  and,  when  found,  that  it  shall  contain 
just  the  information  sought.  The  tendency  of  the  age  is  toward 
the  practical,  and  he  who  would  gain  the  attention  of  the  public 
must  be  concise  and  to  the  point. 

Our  aim  is  to  assist  in  the  management  of  the  household,  but 
especially  would  we  enter  our  plea  for  improved  cookery.  Ill- 
cooked  meals  are  a  source  of  discomfort.    Bad  cooking  is  waste 

waste  of  money  and  loss  of  comfort.  Among  the  "common  things  " 
which  educators  should  teach  the  rising  generation,  this  should  not 
be  overlooked.  It  is  the  commonest  and  yet  the  most  neglected  of 
the  branches  of  female  education. 

In  this  department  we  have  endeavored  to  give  only  those  recipes 
which  have  stood  the  test  of  actual  use  and  received  the  endorse- 
ment of  the  best  cooks  and  caterers  of  the  day,  and  all  of  them  can 
be  depended  upon  as  being  just  what  they  purport  to  be. 

We  have  considered  it  unnecessary  to  add  the  names  of  the  con- 
tributors, as  most  of  them  would  be  nearly  or  quite  unknown  to  the 
reader,  and,  therefore,  would*  caary  no  weight  of  authority  with 
them,  and  would  serve  but  to  occupy  space,  which  is  better  used 
for  additional  recipes. 


\ 


•  '■-«'■  »^^ 

,/♦!?.■  ■.,2;.,.-     •• 

>■ '  ",  ■ 


/:- 


/ . .  • 


I- 


▼i  PREFACE. 

The  greater  part  of  human  labor  is  occupied  in  the  direct  pro- 
duction  of  the  materials  for  human  food.  All  these  articles — corn, 
beef,  mutton  and  such  like — ^are  handed  over  to  the  female  half  of 
the  human  species  to  be  converted  into  food  for  the  sustenance  of 
themselves,  their  husbands,  and  their  families.  How  do  they  use 
their  power?  Can  they  cook?  Have  they  been  taught  to  cook? 
Is  it  not  a  fact  that,  in  this  country,  cooking  is  one  of  the  lost 
or  undiscovered  arts  ? 

The  most  worthless  unit  in  a  family  is  an  ill-managing  wife,  or  an 
indolent  woman  of  any  sort.  If  she  knows  nothing  of  her  kitchen, 
and  is  at  the  mercy  of  the  cook,  the  table  will  soon  become  intoler- 
able — ^bad  soup,  soft  and  flabby  fish,  meat  burned  outside  and  raw 
within.  The  husband  will  soon  fly  from  the  Barmecide  feast,  and 
take  refuge  in  his  club,  where  he  will  not  only  find  food  that  he 
can  digest,  but  at  the  same  time  escape  from  the  domestic  discord 
that  usually  accompanies  ill-cooked  victuals  at  home. 

In  short  we  want  common  sense  in  cookery,  as  in  most  other 
things.  Food  should  be  used  and  not  abused.  Much  of  it  is  now 
absolutely  wasted — ^wasted  for  want  of  a  little  art  in  cooking  it. 

The  advancement  of  a  people  is  measured  by  its  proficiency  in 
the  cuisine.  Vice  and  crime  consort  with  foul  living.  In  those 
places  demoralization  is  the  normal  condition.  There  is  an  absence 
of  cleanliness,  of  decency,  of  decorum — ^all  tending  to  foster  idle- 
ness, drunkenness  and  vicious  abandonment. 

Besides  the  cooking  recipes,  we  have  added  such  other  informa- 
tion as  is  of  importance  to  every  housekeeper.  In  its  completeness 
we  now  present  Thb  Succbssful  Housekbepbb  to  a  discrimin- 
ating public,  with  the  hope  that  it  may  make  easier  the  burden  and 
more  pleasant  the  cares  of  the  over-burdened  wives  and  mothers  of 
OOP  land. 


'  -» -  ■*  - 


N 


THE 


SUCCESSFUL  HOUSEKEEPER. 


CHAPTER  I. 

BREAD    MAKING. 

;F  it  be  true  that  bread  is  the  staff  of  life,  no  one  can  be  insensible 
to  the  statement  which  has  been  made  hj  authors  on  the  sub- 
ject so  many  times  of  late,  that  we  make  a  great  mistake,  from 
a  dietetic  point  of  view,  in  the  kind  of  flour  which  we  select  foi* 
making  bread.  The  most  nutritious  bread  is  not  the  whitest,  but 
rather  the  reverse,  since  the  branny  portion  of  wheat,  which  is  sys- 
tematically rejected,  contains  very  valuable  substances  and  salts 
that,  taken  into  the  body,  go  to  form  bone,  flesh,  and  nerve,  as  well 
.as  to  assist  in  the  digestion  of  starchy  matters.  The  central  por- 
tion of  wheat,  or  that  portion  which  forms  the  ordinary  flour  of 
commerce,  consists  solely  of  starch,  which  is  not  a  flesh-forming 
substance,  but  a  heat-giving  principle  of  food.  The  bran  con- 
tains phosphates,  of  which  bones  and  nerves  are  so  largely  made 
up;  gluten,  or  flesh-forming  substance;  and  cerealine,  a  peculiar 
body  which  has  the  character  of  a  ferment,  changing  starchy  mat- 
ter in  such  a  way  as  to  be  more  readily  absorbed  and  utilized  by 
the  system  in  the  act  of  digestion. 

It  stands  to  reason,  therefore,  that  flour  made  from  the  entire 
wheat  contains  the  very  substances  which  are  needed  to  make  it 
nutritious,  and  that  the  removal  of  the  bran  in  the  making  of  flour, 


8  BREAD  MAKING. 

as  crdinarily  practiced,  entails  the  loss  of  very  important  items  of 
diet.  Further,  it  is  clear  that  the  physiologist  is  right  in  recom- 
mending the  use  of  whole  grain  flour,  provided  that  there  is  no 
special  drawback  on  account  of  its  physical  character.  But  this  is 
just  what  has  been  the  case  hitherto.  When  the  bran  is  mixed  with 
the  ordinary  flour  and  taken,  it  is  found  to  be  difficult  of  digestion, 
and,  in  some  cases,  to  irritate;  j^he  latter  result  being  due  to  the 
mechanical  action  of  the  bran  scales  upon  the  intestines,  and  hence 
there  has  been  a  real  difficulty  in  extending  the  consumption  of 
brown  bread.  But  recent  improvements  in  milling  machinery  have 
to  a  great  extent  overcome  these  difficulties,  and  as  a  consequence, 
the  consumption  of  wheat  in  its  many  and  various  preparations  is 
correspondingly  increased. 

For  good  bread  three  things  are  essential — good  flour,  good 
yeast,  and  great  care. 

Ybast  that  will  not  Sour. 

Good  bread  cannot  be  made  from  poor  yeast,  and  here  is  a  recipe 
that  will  not  sour:  One  bowl  of  flour,  one  bowl  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  salt,  one  tablespoonf ul  ginger.  Take  a  double  handful  of  hops 
and  pour  over  them  five  quarts  of  water,  boil  an  hour,  and  have  as 
much  water  on  at  the  last,  and  pour  scalding  hot  through  a  strainer 
on  to  the  other  ingredients,  stirring  briskly;  when  cold  add  a  cup 
of  good  yeast  and  let  rise  thirty-six  hours,  pour  into  a  perfectly 
sweet  jug,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  A  cupful  of  this  added  to  a 
quart  of  lukewarm  water,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
will  make  two  loaves  of  bread.  Set  this  at  night  and  knead  in 
more  flour  the  next  morning,  keep  in  a  place  where  it  will  be  of 
even  temperature,  raising  it  as  fast  as  possible;  when  raised  again^ 
knead  a  good  deal,  using  but  little  flour,  and  put  into  bread  pans; 
when  well  raised  bake  slowly  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Part  of 
this  tak(  n  out  and  raised  once  or  twice,  with  sufficient  butter  or 
lard,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  added,  makes  excellent  rolls  for  tea. 


\ 


BREAD  MAKING.  9 

A  Good  Reliable  Tbast. 

Steep  slowly,  in  a  porcelain  or  bright  tin  kettle,  one  large  hand- 
ful of  hops,  tied  in  a  cloth,  boil  six  large  potatoes,  sliced  thin,  in 
two  quarts  of  water;  when  done  very  soft,  mash  till  smooth  and 
creamy.  Have  ready  one  pint  of  flour,  wet  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
paste;  pour  into  this  the  potato  water,  boiling  hot,  stirring 
smoothly;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  the 
hop  water  and  potatoes,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt,  and  one  cup  of 
white  sugar;  stir  thoroughly,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  milk 
warm,  stir  in  one  cup  of  yeast;  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  twelve 
hours;  put  it  into  an  air-tight  vessel,  previously  well  scalded,  and 
set  in  the  cellar.  This  will  keep  from  four  to  six  weeks.  Always 
make  new  yeast  before  the  old  is  gone,  in  order  to  have  some  to 
start  with.  Be  very  particular  with  every  new  batch  of  yeast,  to 
have  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  kept  well  cleaned,  and  scalded  with 
hot  saleratus  water.  Much  depends  upon  keeping  this  sweet  and 
-clean. 

Another  Good  Yeast. 

Boil  two  potatoes  with  a  good  handful  of  hops,  tied  in  a  bag; 
mash  the  potatoes  when  done,  in  the  yeast  dish,  and  add  two  tea- 
cupfuls  of  flour,  and  scald  with  the  potato  water;  when  cool,  add 
a  yeast  cake  soaked  in  warm  water.  Dry  hop  yeast  can  always  be 
found  at  grocery  stores. 

Good  Home-made  Bread. 

The  superiority  of  good  home-made  bread  has  long  been  acknowl- 
edged, yet  how  few  know  how  to  make  a  really  good  article  of 
bread,  therefore  so  many  housekeepers  depend  on  the  baker,  which 
is  at  least  very  expensive,  to  say  nothing  of  the  injury  the  constant 
use  of  baker's  bread  causes  to  the  health  of  delicate  persons  and 
<;hildren,  as  all  baker's  bread  contains  alum,  Vhich  causes  the  loaves 
to  increase  in  weight,  as  it  makes  the  flour  absorb  more  water. 
Therefore  a  pound  loaf  of  baker's  bread  will  contain  less  nourish- 
ment  than  a  loaf  of  home-made  bread  of  equal  weight.     Economy, 


rP 


-. ./ 


r«. 


10  BREAD  MAKING. 

therefore,  should  make  every  housekeeper  her  own  hread  maker,  as. 
haker's  hread  dries  and  becomes  stale  much  quicker  than  home- 
made. 

To  make  first-rate  hread,  the  sponge  should  be  set  over  night  ia 
a  warm  place  and. raised  and  kneaded  three  times;  the  first  time 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes — ^the  more  the  better.  If  this  rule 
IB  followed  the  bread  wrll  present  an  even  surface  when  sliced  off, 
and  not  the  loose,  crumbly  appearance  which  is  so  often  seen  in- 
bread. 

Take  three  quarts  of  good  flour,  sift  and  warm;  make  a  cavity  in 
the  center,  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt;  take  one  pint  of  new 
milk,  or  water  boiling  hot,  pour  into  this  and  stir  quickly;  cool  off 
with  one  quart  of  cold  milk  or  water;  add  one  cup  of  yeast;  mix 
well  together;  then  cover  well  and  set  in  a  moderately  warm  place 
(if  in  cold  weather);  this  will  be  ready  to  knead  up  before  break- 
fast, if  set  over  night.  Slashing  the  dough  with  a  sharp  knife  adds- 
to  its  lightness  and  texture.  Whe^  well  kneaded  the  first  time  cover 
tightly,  watch  closely,  and  as  soop  as  light  knead  as  before,  but  be 
very  careful  not  to  work  in  much  flour;  only  keep  enough  on  the 
board  to  prevent  sticking,  as  all  the  flour  that  is  added  after  the 
first  kneading  only  makes  the  bread  hard  and  dry.  As  soon  as  it 
is  light  the  second  time  divide  into  loaves  and  reserve  a  portion  for 
biscuit  so  that  the  bread  will  not  be  cut  till  cold.  Mold  smoothly,, 
put  into  tins,  let  rise  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm  place; 
bake  half  an  hour  in  moderately  hot  oven.  When  done,  set  on 
hearth,  cover  with  double  thick  cloth  five  minutes,  turn  out  on 
same  cloth;  let  stand  until  cool;  put  in  stone  jar  and  keep  covered.. 
Always  keep  a  cloth  folded  in  the  bottom  of  the  jar  to  take  up* 
the  dampness  which  naturally  collects. 

Yeast  Bread. 

To  three  quarts  water  add  one  teacupful  of  yeast,  stir  into- 
enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  d^  this  in  the  evening 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.      In  the  morning  mix  stiff;  it  will  soon 


E 

I 


\ 


BREAD  MAKING.  11 

rise,  then  mold  out  into  the  tins.     No  certain  time  can  be  given  for 
the  time  of  rising,  as  that  depends  on  the  temperature. 

Potato  Bbead. 

-  Pare  and  boil  six  good-sized  potatoes,  drain  off  the  water,  mash 
fine  and  pour  over  them  about  three  pints  of  cold  water  and  run 
through  a  colander;  add  flour  until  this  is  a  thin  batter,  then  put 
in  a  coffee  cup  of  yeast  from  the  jug;  let  stand  until  it  rises,  then 
stir  into  it  flour  as  much  as  you  can  with  a  spoon  and  let  it  ris9 
again;  work  in  enough  more  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  for  bread, 
and  then  let  rise  the  third  time;  when  light  this  time,  work  int«f 
loaves  and  let  rise.     All  the  flour  must  be  sifted. 

Another. 

Boil  four  potatoes  to  the  loaf;  mash  when  done  and  add  two  tea-- 
Gupfuls  of  flour  and  scald  with  the  potato  water;  when  cool  add  the 
yeast  and  let  stand  till  bed  time,  then  sponge  and  knead  in  the 
morning;  make  quite  stiff  and  knead  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  let 
me  again  and  mold  into  loaves. 

Milk  Sponge  Bsead. 

Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  a  pitcher  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda;  let  it 
stand  till  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  it,  then  add  flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter;  beat  it  hard  for  two  minutes.  Now  place  the  pitcher 
in  a  kettle  of  hot  water — ^not  hot  enough  to  scald  the  mixture;  keep 
the  water  at  the  same  temperature  till  the  emptyings  are  light.  If 
set  early  in  the  morning  and  carefully  watched  they  will  be  ready 
by  eleven  o'clock  to  make  a  sponge  the  same  as  for  other  bread, 
with  a  quart  of  very  warm  milk.  Let  this  sponge  get  very  light,. 
then  make  into  loaves  and  set  to  rise  again,  taking  care  that  they 
do  not  get  too  light  this  time  before  putting  into  the  oven,  or  the 
bread  will  be  dry  and  tasteless.  The  emptyings  pitcher  and  bread 
pan  or  tray  must  be  perfectly  clean  and  sweet.  Scald  them  out 
with  saleratus  or  lime  water. 


/ 


BRE&O  MAKING. 


Salt  Ribino  Bbbad. 


Id  the  evening  scald  two  tablespoonfula  of  oom  meal,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  and  one  of  Sugar,  with  sweet  milk,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  till 
ig;  then  scald  a.  teaapoonfu)  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  half  as 
joda,  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  cold  water  till  Inke- 
then  put  in  the  mush  made  the  night  before,  and  thicken  to 
tr  with  flour;  put  in  a  close  vessel  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water 

00  hot);  when  light,  mix  stiff,  adding  a  little  shortening; 
nto  loaves.  It  will  soon  rise,  and  will  not  take  as  long  to 
8  yeast  bread. 

Salt  Risino  Bread,  No.  2. 
le  morning  take  a  quart  dish  and  scald  it  out,  then  put  in  a 
'  warm  water;  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pinch 
1,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  com  meal,  and  flour  enough 
:e  a  thick  batter.  Stir  well,  and  set  the  dish  in  a  kettle  of 
water,  and  keep  at  the  same  temperature  (just  so  you  can 
our  hand  in  it).     If  water  rises  on  the  top,  stir  in  briskly  one 

tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  put  back  into  the  kettle.  If  the 
8  good  the  emptyings  will  be  light  within  three  or  four 

then  take  flour  enough  in  a  bread  pan  to  make  three  or  four 
of  bread,  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  pnt  in  the  emptyings, 

1  the  same  dish  with  warm  water;  add  a  little  salt,  stir  it  in 
spoon,  mix  a  thiek  sponge  and  cover  it  with  some  of  the 
>nd  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  mold  it  into 
and  set  to  rise  again  (it  does  not  require  as  much  kneading 
it  bread).  Bake  from  a  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour, 
iA  emptyings  are  made  in  the  same  way,  of  middliDgs  instead 

CoBN  Bread. 
pint  sweet  milk,  one  pint  sour  milk,  one  pint  flour,  two  pints 
>ne  teaspoonful  syrup,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
Steam  three  hours. 


BREAD  MAKING.  13 

Corn  Bbsad,  No.  2, 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup- 
sweet  milk,  half  cup  sour  milk,  half  cup  wheat  flour,  one  and  a  half 
cups  com  meal,  two  teaspoonf uls  of  any  good  baking  powder. 

Corn  Brbad,  No.  3. 

One  pint  buttermilk,  two  eggs,  one  pint  com  meal,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  soda. 

Corn  B|tBAD,  No.  4. 

One  pint  com  meal,  one  pint  flour,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one  tea- 
cupful  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Bake 
just  two  hours. 

Grandmother's  Indian  Bread. 

Three  cups  sweet  milk,  three  cups  com  meal,  one  cup  wheat 
flour,  one  half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  salt.  Put  into  a  buttered  bake-dish,  and  set  in  a  steamer  and 
steam  three  hours. 

Quick  Graham  Bread. 

One  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk,  two-thirds  cup  cooking  molasses,, 
a  half  teaspoonful  salt,  two  even  teaspoonf  uls  of  saleratus  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in 
evenly  with  a  spoon.  Put  into  a  well-greased  pan,  and  bake  imme- 
diately. It  will  require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  to 
bake. 

Baking  Powder  Graham  Bread. 

One  and  one-half  pints  Graham  flour,  one-half  pint  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonf  uls 
baking  powder;  mix  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  or  equal  parts 
of  milk  and  water.  Sift  together  Graham,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and 
baking  powder;  add  the  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  mix  rapidly  into 
a  soft  dough,  put  into  a  greased  tin,  bake  in  rather  hot  oven  for 
forty  minutes.    Protect  the  loaf  with  ]»ap('r  the  first  fifteen  minutes. 


14  BREAD  MAKING. 

BsowN  Brsad  of  Gbaham  Flous. 

Take  one  cup  of  milk;  add  hot  water  to  warm;  thicken  with 
sifted  flour,  sufficient  to  make  a  sponge;  stand  over  night  in  a 
warm  place;  in  the  morning  add  half  a  cup  of  milk,  with  a  cup  of 
hot  water,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt; 
mix  in  Graham  flour  till. thick,  and  smooth  with  a  spoon;  pour  into 
bread  pans  half  full;  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  the  pans  are 
nearly  full;  Jbake  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Keep  a  steady 
Are. 

Gbaham  Bread. 

To  a  scant  quart  of  warm  water  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  good  half  cup  of  brown  sugar;  stir  in  a  pint  of  the  sponge 
made  of  flour  for  potato  bread;  add  as  much  Graham  flour  as 
can  be  stirred  in;  put  into  baking  pans  and  let  rise  until  light; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  done  wrap  in  a  damp  towel 
until  cool. 

Graham  Bread,  No.  2. 

Take  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  water  or  milk  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter  or  lard;  mix  quite  thick  with  Graham  flour  or  Arlington 
wheat  meal,  which  is  better;  add  half  a  cup  of  good  yeast  and  set 
to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda  in  a  little  water  and  add  one-half  cup  of  molasses;  stir  this 
into  the  bread,  mix  quite  soft  and  put  in  baking  tin  to  rise.  Bake 
thoroughly.  A  nice  rye  and  wheat  loaf  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  using  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  rye  and  the  rest  wheat 
flour.  If  you  wish  a  light  colored  loaf  use  only  one  cup  of  rye  and 
sweeten  with  sugar. 

Brown  Bread. 

Take  two  quarts  of  com  meal;  scald  with  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk  or  water;  when  cool  add  one  quart  of  Graham  flour,  one  large 
spoonful  salt,  one  cup  brown  sugar  or  best  molasses,  one  cup  home- 
made yeast,  one  cup  flour.  Mix  with  warm  water  as  stiff  as  can 
easily  be  stirred ;  put  in  deep  basins;  steam  two  hours  and  bake 


BREAD  MAKING.  16 

•one.     Before  baking  baste  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream  or 
milk;  this  makes  a  soft,  tender  crust. 

Biscuit  is  made  from  the  same  dough  as  the  bread,  rolled  out  and 
spread  with  a  small  quantity  of  lard,  which  must  be  very  fresh  and 
sweet.  Double  the  dough  together,  roll  and  spread  again  three 
times;  then  cut  in  small  biscuits;  place  on  buttered  tins;  let  stand 
half  an  hour;  bake  fifteen  minutes  until  a  very  light  brown.  Cover 
with  cloth  a  few  minutes  and  slip  off  on  the  same  until  ready  for 
use.  All  bread,  iSiscuit,  loaf  cake  or  doughnuts  made  from  yeast 
should  rise  after  being  mixed  before  being  baked;  if  put  into  the 
K>ven  or  fried  directly  they  are  never  light,  as  the  dough  has  no 
chance  to  recover  its  elasticity. 

B&OWN  BfiEAD,  No.  2. 

One  pint  of  rye  meal  sifted,  one  pound  of  coarse  yellow  Indian 
•meal  sifted,  one  quart  of  sour  milk,  salt,  half  cup  of  molasses  or 
less,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Steam  three  hours  and-a-half  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  o^ 
boiling  water. 

Boston  Brown  Bbead. 

Flour  one-half  pint,  one  pint  com  meal,  one-half  pint  rye 
•flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  brown  sugar 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  pint  water;  sift  flour) 
corn  meal,  rye  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  together 
thoroughly;  peel,  wash,  and  well  boil  two  mealy  potatoes,  rub 
them  through  the  sieve,  diluting  with  water.  When  this  is  quite 
cold  use  it  to  mix  the  flour,  etc.,  into  a  batter  like  cake;  pour  it 
into  a  well-greased  mold,  having  a  cover  (a  tin  pail  will  do),  place 
it  in  a  kettle  or  sauce  pan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  when  the 
loaf  may  steam  or  simmer  one  hour;  then  take  off  the  cover  and 
1[>ake  in  the  oven  a  half  hour. 

Rtb  Bread. 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  wheat  bread,  and  let  it  rise  over  night; 
then  add  two-thirds  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  quart 


16  BREAD  MAKING. 

miiic  and  water — equal  parts — and  mix  with  rye  flour,  not  as  stiff 
as  wheat  bread,  and  bake. 

Ryk  and  Indian  Bread. 

Scald  two  quarts  Indian  meal  by  pouring  over  it  just  boiling 
water  enough  to  wet  it,  one  quart  rye  meal  or  flour,  one-half  tea- 
cupful  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one  of  soda,  one  cup  of 
yeast;  make  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  mixing  with 
warm  water,  and  let  rise  over  night;  put  in  a  bake  tin,  let  stand  a 
half  hour,  and  bake  from  four  to  six  hours. 

Rye  Bread  wcth  Baking  Powder. 

One  pint  rye  flour,  one-half  pint  com  meal,  one-half  pint  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoon ful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  nearly  one  pint  milk.  Sift 
together  rye  flour,  com  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder,  rub  in 
the  lard  cold,  add  the  milk  and  mix  into  a  smooth  batter,  as  for 
cake;  pour  into  a  well  greased  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 

three-quarters  of  an  hour;  protect  with  a  paper  the  first  quarter. 

« 

HoYLETON  Bread. 

Five  cups  Indian  meal,  seven  cups  wheat  flour,  two  cups  rye  - 
meal,  four  cups  buttermilk,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda.  Put  it  in  a 
three  quart  pail  that  has  a  cover;  let  it  stand  near  the  fire  thirty 
minutes  with  the  cover  off,  to  rise,  then  put  on  cover,  and  bake  or 
steam  four  hours. 

Norwegian  Bread,  for  Dyspeptics. 

One  pint  barley  meal,  one-half  pint  Graham,  one-half  pint  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  pint 
milk.  Sift  together  barley  meal,  Graham,  flour,  salt  and  powder. 
Mix  into  a  firm  batter  with  the  millc,  pour  into  a  greased  tin,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes;  cover  with  a  greased  paper 
the  first  twenty  minutes. 


'V 


BREAD  MAEINQ.  17 

Oat  Mkal  Bbbad. 

One-half  pint  oat  me^Ay  one  and-a-half  pints  flour,  half  teaspoonf  ul 
salt,  three  teaspoonf als  baking  powder,  three-fourths  pint  milk; 
boil  the  oat  meal  in  one  and-a-half  pints  salted  water  for  one  hour. 
Then  dilute  it  with  the  milk.  Set  aside  to  get  perfectly  cold.  Sift 
together  flour,  salt,  powder,  and  when  the  oat  meal  preparation  is 
cold  place  it  in  a  bread  bowl;  add  to  it  the  flour,  etc.;  mix  smoothly 
together^  pour  from  the  bowl  into  the  greased  tin,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  protect  the  loaf  with  paper 
the  first  twenty  minutes. 

RiCB  Bbbad. 

Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  water;  when  tender,  add  one- 
half  pint  milk;  when  cold,  add  one  and-a-half  pints  flour  sifted,  with 
a  teaspoonf  ul  sugar,  half  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  two  teaspoonf  uls  baking 
powder;  mix  together  smoothly,  pour  into  greased  tin,  and  bake 
forty  minutes. 


CHAPTER  11. 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

i 

Light  Biscuit. 
;N  kneading  bread,  .set  aside  a  small  loaf  for  biscaits.  Into 
this  work  a  heaping  tablespoonf  ul  of  lard  and  batter  mixed, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  The  more  it  is  worked,  the 
whiter  it  will  be.  As  it  rises,  mold  it  down  twice  before  making 
into  biscuit.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  The  dough 
should  be  quite  soft. 

BuTTKB  Biscuit. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  into  a  pan,  and  make  a  hollow  in  the  center 
large  enough  to  admit  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  coffee-cup  of  yeast;  mix 
into  a  sponge,  set  it  to  rise;  in  the  morning  add  one  pound  of 
melted  butter,  and  knead  as  much  flour  as  will,  with  another  pint 
of  warm  milk  or  water,  make  a  soft  dough;  make  out  the  biscuit  in 
pans  to  rise;  when  sufficiently  light,  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  pint  of  buttermilk,  or  sour  milk,  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  an  oven — ^not  too  hot — after  raising  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  If  sour  cream  is  to  be  had,  use  it  instead  of 
in  ilk,  leaving  out  the  shortening. 

DixiB  Biscuit. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  lard,  one 
small  cup  of  yeast,  one  cup  of  milk;  mix  at  11  o'clock,  roll  out  at 
4  o'clock,  and  cut  with  two  sizes  of  cutters,  putting  the  smaller  one 
on  top;  let  rise  until  supper.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  10 

Baking  Powdkb  Biscuit. 

To  begin  with,  have  a  hot  oven;  have  the  flour  sifted,  and  roll 
dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled.  Then  more  baking  pow- 
der is  needed  than  is  usually  given.  For  each  teacupful  of  flour 
use  a  teaspoonful  of  powder;  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  is  suffi- 
cient for  a  quart  of  flour;  after  rubbing  powder  and  butter  into  the 
flour,  mix  soft  with  cold  water  or  milk,  stirring  with  a  spoon;  roll 
lightly  and  bake  at  once. 

Cbeam  of  Tabtae  Biscuit. 

One  quart  flour,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
lard,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar 
together,  rub  the  butter  and  lard  very  thoroughly  through  it;  dis- 
solve the  soda  in  a  pint  of  milk  or  water  (if  water,  use  more  short- 
ening); mix  all  together.  Roll  out,  adding  as  little  flour  as  possi- 
ble; out  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick 
oven. 

English  Biscuit. 

One  and  a-half  pints  of  flour,  one  coffee-cup  full  com  starch,  three 
tablespoonf uls  sugar,  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  two  large  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  three  tablespoonfuls  lard,  one  ^^f^y  one-half  pint 
milk,  one-half  cup  currants,  one  tablespoonful  coriander  seed  (if 
desired).  Sift  together  flour,  corn  starch,  sugar^  salt,  and  baking 
powder;  rub  in  the  lard  cold;  add  the  eggs  beaten,  milk,  currants 
well  cleaned;  mix  into  a  smooth  dough  soft  enough  to  handle,  flour 
the  board,  turn  out  the  dough,  roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch  thickness, 
cut  out  with  a  round  cutter,  lay  them  on  a  greased  baking  tin,  and 
bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  twenty  minutes;  rub  over  with  a  little 
butter  on  a  clean  piece  of  linen  when  taken  from  the  oven. 

Graham  Biscuits. 
Take  one  quai-t  water  or  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  half  cup  yeast,  and  a  little  salt;   take  enough 
white  flour  to  iriix  a  batter  with  tho  water;    add  the  other  ingredi- 


20  BREA.EFA8T  AND  TEA  CASKS. 

vnte,  and  ae  much  Graham  floor  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon; 

set  it  away  until  morning;   then  grease  a  pan,  flour  hands,  take  a 

lough  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  roll  lightly  b<5tween  the 

;  them  rise  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven. 

Cold  BiecuiTa. 
inta  flour,  two  tablespoonf  uls  sugar,  one  teaspoonf  ul  salt, 
ing  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  four  tablespoonfula 
tablespoonfuls  caraway  seeds,  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk, 
ber  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder,  rub  in  lard  cold,  add  the 
ten  eggs,  and  milk;  mix  into  a  smooth,  firm  dough,  flour 
,  turn  out  the  dough,  give  it  a  few  quick  kneadinga,  and 
•  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  cut  into  large  bia- 
k  with  a  fork,  lay  on  a  greaeed  tin.  Bake  iu  hot  oven 
nutes;  when  cold,  store  for  use. 

Bumts. 
in  e^  into  a  oup,  and  fill  the  cop  ap  with  sweet  milk; 
it  a  half  cup  yeast,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  enough 
ake  a  soft  dough;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  let  rise  till  very 
n  mold  into  biscuits  with  a  few  currants;  let  rise  the 
ne  Mid  hake,  and  when  nearly  done  glaze  with  a  little 
tnd  milk. 

Bnmra. 
p  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup  yeast,  half  pint  milk, 
with  flbur,  and  mold  into  biscuits;  when  light,  bake. 

Bdnnb. 
I  yeaat,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  molasses,  flour  to  make 
let  it  rise,  then  add  one  pint  milk,  one  pint  sugar  dissolved 
k,  half  pint  butter,  two  eggs;    stir  in  flour  stiff  enough  to 
buns,  aud  let  them  rise  in  the  pans  before  baking. 

ClNMAMON   CaKB. 

east  bread  dough  when  light,  knead  and  roll  out  three- 
f  an  inoh  thick;  put  thin  slices  of  butter  on  the  top, 
rith  sugar,  and  then  with  cinnamon;  let  rise,  and  bake. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  81 

Gbaham  Cakxs. 

To  one  quart  Ontham  flour  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  five 
tablespoonf  uls  molasses,  three  tablespoon! uls  yeast,  or  a  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  warm  water.  Stir  as  thick  as  pound  cake;  let  stand 
over  night;  when  ready  to  bake,  add  a  well  beaten  egg,  a  table- 
spoonful  lard  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.    Bake  in  cups  half  an  hour. 

Ryb  Drop  Cakes. 

Otie  eggy  two  cups  rye  flour,  two  cups  flour,  half  a  cup  sugar,  a 
teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful 
soda-— or  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, — a  tablespoonf ul  melted 
butter,  and  one  of  lard,  one  and  a  half  cups  milk;  drop  from  a  spoon 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

CoBX  Cakes. 

One  pint  sour  milk,  two  cups  Indian  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  egg, 
*  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
soda;   mix  thoroughly  and  bake   twenty-five   minutes  in  shallow 
pans. 

JoHNXY  Cake. 

One  quart  com  meal,  one  quart  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls shortening,  half  cup  sugar,  teaspoonful  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder — or  substitute  one  quart  sour  milk  and  a  large  tea- 
spoonful soda. 

Newpobt  Bbeakfast  Cakes. 

Three  eggs,  three  spoonfuls  sugar,  one  and-a-half  pints  milk, 
half  cup  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Stir  stiff  with 
flour  and  bake  in  loaves,  like  cakes. 

Potato  Cakes. 

Peal  enough  good  sized  potatoes  for  a  meal  for  the  family,  grate 
on  a  coarse  grater,  and  stir  in  from  three  to  five  eggs,  salt  and  mix 
Btift  enough  to  mold  into  cakes,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings. 


22  GRIDDLE  OAKKa 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Stale  Bread  Griddle  Cakes. 

Soak  one  pint  bread  crumbs  in  warm  water,  when  soft  drain  oft 
the  water  and  add  one  pint  sour  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  soda 
stirred  in,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  beaten  egg,  and  thicken  with 
flour  to  make  a  batter. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  pint  corn  meal,  one  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  egg,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  one  of  salt.     Bake  on  a  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  and  one-half  pints  boiled  rice,  the  same  of  flour,  one-half 
teacupful  sour  milk,  one  teacupf ul  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
salt,  three  eggs,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Flour  Griddle  Cakes. 

Make  a  thick  batter  with  one  quart  of  sour  milk  and  flour.  Let 
it  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  add  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonf nl  warm 
water.     Bake  immediately. 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

Six  ears  grated  corn,  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  pint  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  a  little  salt.     Bake  on  a  griddle. 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes. 

To  one  pint  warm  boiled  hominy  add  a  pint  of  milk,  or  milk  and 
water,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  beat  up  two  or 
three  eggs  and  stir  them  into  the  batter  with  a  little  salt.  Fry  as 
other  griddle  cakes. 

Crumb  Corn  Cakes. 

Soak  a  quart  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  quart  of  sour  milk  over  night; 
in  the  morning  rub-  through  a  colander  and  add  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 


1 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 


28 


one  tablespoonfvil  shortening,  and  corn  meal  to  mix  into  a  nice 
batter.  It  is  better  to  beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately, 
stirring  the  whites  in  lightly  just  before  baking. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

Three  eggs,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  one  quart  sifted  flour,  with 
three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  small  spoonful  salt;  beat  tlu; 
yolks  and  half  of  the  milk,  salt  and  flour  together,  then  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  and  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten ; 
a  teacup  of  boiled  rice  improves  them. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Take,  of  equal  parts  of  buttermilk  and  water,  one  quart,  half  cup 
yeast,  a  little  salt;  stir  into  a  batter  with  buckwheat  flour,  let  rise 
over  night;  in  the  morning  add  half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  water.     Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

GSAHAM    GbIDDLE    CaKES. 

One  pint  Graham  flour,  half  pint  com  meal,  half  pint  flour,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  saft,  one  egg,  one  pint 
buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  soda. 

Squash,  Pumpkin  and  Apple  Gblddle  Cakes. 

Cold  stewed  squash,  pumpkin  or  apple,  rubbed  through  a  colan- 
der, half  pint;  mix  with  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  half  pint  milk. 
Sift  together  half  pint  Graham  flour,  half  pint  com  meal,  half  tea- 
spoonful salt,  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  smooth  and 
thoroughly  into  a  batter  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Berry  Griddle  Cakes. 

Take  of  huckleberries,  blackberries,  or  raspberries  a  half  pint, 
one  and  one-half  pints  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
brown  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  and  one 
pint  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder;  add  beaten 
eggs,  milk  and  berries;  mix  into  a  batter;  have  the  griddle  hot 
enough  to  form  a  crust  as  soon  as  the  batter  touches  it.  In  order 
to  confine  the  juice  of  the  berries  turn  quickly  in  order  to  form    a 


.■•••,« 
»»    >  •  '  ' ' 

&'>  24  GRIDDLE  OAKER 

w  /:  crust  on  the  other  side;  tnm  onoe  more  on  each  side  to  complate 

'  /  the  baking. 

*.,'  .  Egg   CsACKNBLd. 

1 

I  I 

One  quart  flour,  one-half   teaspoonful  salt,  five  tabloApoonfulfl 

t  ,  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  four  tablespoonfuls  butter, 

and  five  eggs.     Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder;  rub  in 

V  '  *^®  butter  cold;  add  the  eggs  beaten,  and  mix  into  a  firm,  smooth 

^  dough.     Flour  the  board,  turn  out  the  dough,  and  give  it  a  few 

minutes'  rapid  kneading;  cover  with  a  damp  towel  fifteen  minutes; 

then  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  one-eighth  of  an  inch.     Cut  out 

with  biscuit  cutter.     When  all  are'  cut  out,  have  a  large  pot  of 

boiling,  and  a  large  tin  pan  of  cold  water.     Drop  them  a  few  at  a 

time  into  the  boiling  water.     When   they   appear   at  the  surface 

^  and  curl  at  the  edges,  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  and  drop  them 

in  the  cold  water.     When  all  are  thus  served,  lay  thetn  on  greased 
baking  tins  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Oatmxal  Crackebs. 
One  pint  very  fine  oatmeal,  one-half  pint  Graham  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  one-half  pint  cream.  Sift  together  the  oatmeal, 
Graham,  salt,  sugar  and  powder;  add  the  cream  and  mix  into 
a  dough,  rather  too  soft  to  handle.  Let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  by 
which  time  it  will  have  absorbed  the  extra  moisture,  and  handling 
it  will  be  easy.  Flour  the  board  with  Graham,  roll  out  to  the 
thickness  of  one-third  inch,  prick  with  a  fork,  lay  ^  i.  greased  bak- 
ing tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  minutes.  They  must  be 
watched  during  baking,  as  they  bum  quickly,  and  when  baked 
handled  with  care;   they  break  easily. 

Graham  Crackers. 

Sift  together  one  quart  Graham  flour,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 

half  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  baking  powder;    mix  with 

two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  a  good  half  pint  milk,  into  a  smooth 

dough,  and  knead  well  for  five  minutes;  roll  it  to  the  thickness  of 


•  • 


GRIDDLE  0AK£8.  25 

one-quarter  inch,  cut  into  crackers  round  or  square.     Bake  in  rather 
hot  oven  ten  minutes;  when  cold  store  for  use. 

Crukpbts. 

Mix  together  thoroughly  while  dry  one  quart  sifted  flour,  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  then  add  two 
tablespoonf uls  melted  butter  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin 
dough.     Bake  quickly  in  muffin  rings  or  patty  pans. 

London  Crumpbts. 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  pints. flour,  one-half  teaspoonful 
«alt,  one  teaspooqful  sugar,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
add  one  beaten  egg,  a  scant  pint  of  milk  and  cream  in  equal  parts, 
a  little  ground  cinnamon  or  a  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon;  half 
fill  greased  muffin  rings,  place  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  Bake 
on  one  side  only.     Serve  hot  with  cottage  cheese. 

Kentucky  Corn  Dodgers. 

Place  your  griddle  where  it  will  heat,  for  this  is  much  better 
than  a  bread  pan,  there  being  less  danger  of  scorching  at  the  bot- 
tom. Take  an  even  pint  of  sifted  meal,  a  heaping  tablespoonf ul  of 
lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  scant  half  pint  of  cold  water;  mix  well 
and  let  it  stand  while  you  grease  your  griddle  and  sprinkle  some 
meal  over  it.  Make  the  dough  into  rolls  the  size  and  shape  of 
goose  eggs,  and  drop  them  on  the  griddle,  taking  care  to  flatten  as 
little  as  possible,  for  the  less  bottom  crust  the  better.  Place  in  the 
oven  and  bake  until  brown  ori  the  bottom.  Th^n  change  to  the 
grate,  and  brown  on  top,  taking  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  for 
the  whole  process.  Eaten  while  hot  with  plenty  of  good  butter, 
they  are  better  than  any  other  bread. 

The  same  amount  of  meal,  lard  and  salt  mixed  with  boiling 
water,  till  of  the  consistency  of  thick  batter,  will  give  you  delight- 
ful hot  cakes,  to  be  cooked  like  any  other  batter  bread. 


26  FRITTERS. 

FRITTERS. 

Grbbn  Cobk  Fritters. 

Grate  green  com  from  the  cob,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for 
every  cupful,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream;  beat  the  eggs, 
well;  add  the  corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard;  salt  to  taste. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every  pint  of  corn;  stir  in 
the  milk,  and  thicken  with  just  enough  flour  to  hold  them  together 
— say  a  tablespoonful  for  every  two  eggs.  You  may  fry  in  hot 
lard,  as  you  would  fritters,  or  cook  upon  a  griddle  like  batter  cakes. 
Eaten  at  dinner  or  breakfast,  these  always  find  a  cordial  welcome. 

Gb££x  Corn  Fritters,  No.  2, 

Two  cups  of  grated  corn,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  flour  for 
thin  batter,  a  pinch  of  soda,  salt,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Mix  and  fry  as  you  would  griddle  cakeh). 

Apple  Fritters. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  lightly,  then  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,, 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  cups  of  chopped  apple- 
and  two  cups  of  flour.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Stir  all  well  together- 
and  fry  in  lard  as  pancakes.  Sift  sugar  over  them  and  send  to  the 
table. 

Celery  Fritters. 

Boil  some  thick  but  tender  stalks  of  celery  in  salted  water;  when 
done  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  cut  them  in  equal  lengths  about  one  and 
a-half  inches;  fry  them  in  batter  to  a  golden  color,  sprinkling  fine 
salt  well  over,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Dram  them  thoroughly,  chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.. 
Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk  and  flour;  stir  the  chopped  oysters  in 
this  and  fry  in  hot  butter;  or  fry  them  whole,  enveloped  in  batter, 
one  in  each  fritter.  In  this  case  the  batter  should  be  thicker  than 
if  they  were  chopped. 


'^ 

k 


r 


PRITTERS.  27 

Clam  Fritters. 
Twelve  clams,  minced  fine;  one  pint  milk;  three  eggs.  Add  the 
liqaor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk;  beat  up  the  eggs  and  put  to 
this,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fiour  enough  for  thin  batter;  lastly, 
the  chopped  clams.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  trying  a  little  first  to  see  if  the 
fat  and  batter  are  light.  A  tablespoonful  will  make  a  fritter  of 
moderate  size.  Or  you  can  dip  the  ^hole  clams  in  batter  and 
«ook  in  like  manner.     Fry  quickly,  or  they  are  apt  to  be  too  greasy. 

Lobster  Fbittees. 
Put  one  lobster  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  half  a  cup  salt; 
boil  twenty-five  minutes;  when  cold  remove  the  meat  and  fat,  cut 
into  small  slices;  put  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  one  cup  cream,  a  little  celery,  salt,  thyme,  white  pepper,  and 
a  salt-spoon  of  parsley,  into  a  stew-pan;  let  boil  two  minutes;  add 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  lobster;  mix  and  set  it  back  to  simmer 
five  minutes;  pour  it  out  on  a  well-greased  dish  and  set  it  away  to 
get  firm  by  cooling;  cut  into  slices,  dip  into  common  batter  and  fry 
to  a  light  brown  in  hot  lard.  Serve  on  the  fritters  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  quite  dry,  fried  in  the  lard  fifteen  seconds. 

Rice  Fritters. 
Boil  one  cup  of  rice  in  one  pint  of  milk  until  soft;  add  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two 
tablespoonf uls  fiour;  when  cold  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth;  drop  in  spoonfuls  in  plenty  of  hot  lard  and  fry  to  a 
light  brown  color.     Serve  with  cream,  wine  or  lemon  sauce. 

Blackberry  Fritters. 

Mix  one  cup  blackberries  with  one  and  a-half  cups  common 
batter  and  drop  by  tablespoonfuls  into  hot  lard. 

All  berry  fritters  can  be  made  as  directed  for  the  above  and 
served  with  spiced  sauce  made  as  follows:  Set  on  the  fire  three- 
fourths  pint  of  water,  one  cup  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  one  teaspoonful  each  of  extract  cloves,  ma^^e^. 
and  ginger. 


I'V*-..  >»  .".        --        ■- 


GBMS. 


GEMS. 


,.,^(" 


Graham  Gems. 
One  pint  milk,  one  pint  Graham  flour,  salt-spoonful  salt;    beai 
well;  heat  the  gem  pan  hot,  butter  it  and  drop  the  dough  into  the 
sockets  with  a  spoon,  filling  each  one-half  full. 

Graham  Gems,  No.  2. 
One  pint  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  a  little  salt,  one  egg, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  tablespoonful  lard;  thicken  with  Graham  flour, 
and  bake  in  g^m  tins. 

Graham  Gems,  No.  3. 
One  pint  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  Graham  flour,  one  egg,  a 
little  salt.     Have  the  irons  hot  before  using. 

Cold  Water  Gems. 
Take  cold  water,  Graham  flour,  and  a  little  salt,  make  rather  a 
stiff  batter;  heat  and  grease  the  irons,  or  tins,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

Mixed  Gems. 
One-half  pint  Graham,  half  pint  corn  meal,  half  pint  rye  flour, 
half  pint  buckwheat  flour,  one  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  pint  rich  milk;  mix  into  a  thin 
batter,  then  half  fill  well-greased  gem  pans.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
fifteen  minutes. 

Corn  Gems. 
One   pint   com  meal,  one  pint  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
large  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder,  one  pint  milk;  mix  into  a  firm 
batter,  two-thirds  fill  well-greased  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 

fifteen  minutes. 

Oatmeal  Gems. 

Soak  one  cup  oatmeal  over  night  in  one  cup  water;  in  the  morn- 
ing add  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  of  flour, 
a  little  salt,  bake  in  gem  irons.  If  on  trial  they  are  a  little  moist  or 
sticky,  add  a  little  more  flour. 


MUPFINa  38 


MUFFINS. 


To  one  qnart  of  milk  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter 
half  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  yeast.  Let  them  stand  until  they 
are  perfectly  light  and  then  bake  on  a  griddle  in  rings  made  for  the 
purpose.  These  are  merely  strips  of  tin  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
wide,  made  into  rings  two  and  a  half  or  three  inches  in  diameter^ 
and  without  bottoms^  the  ring  being  simply  placed  on  the  griddle 
and  the  batter  being  poured  in  to  fill  it. 

MtTPPINS,  No.   2. 

One  pint  flour,  one  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonf  uls  baking 
powder,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with 
the  batter,  then  add  the  whites  well  beaten.  Sift  baking  powder 
with  the  flour,  and  mix  all  together  into  a  batter.  Bake  in  muffin 
rings. 

Muffins,  No.  3. 

One  pint  new  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonf ul  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cake  yeast  (or  better, 
half  cup  home-made  yeast) ;  mix  with  flour  until  a  very  stiff  batter 
is  formed;  leave  in  a  warm  place  over  night  and  bake  in  the  morn- 
ing in  rings. 

Rice  Flouh  Muffins. 

One  and  one-half  cups  rice  flour,  two  cups  wheat  flour,  one  pint 
milk,  one  egg,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  a 
small  piece  of  butter.     Bake  as  usual. 

RiCB  Muffins. 

One  pint  sifted  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt.  Thoroughly  mix  together;  then  add  one  cup  cold 
boiled  rice,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  and  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  thick  batter.     Bake  immediately. 


30  MUSH. 

Graham  Muffins. 

Two  cups  sour  lailk,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  two  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  cups  Graham  ilour.  Bake 
in  rings. 

Graham  Muffins,  No.  2. 

Two  cups  Graham  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-third  cup  sugar, 
one  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  rings  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Corn  Mbal  Muffins. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  corn  meal,  the  same  of  flour,  two  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  two  eggs,  and  milk  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter. 


MUSH. 

Corn  Mrsn. 

Take  boiling  water  (soft  water  is  preferable),  salt  to  the  taste, 
add  meal  very  slowly  so  as  to  prevent  any  lumps  being  formed; 
cook  thoroughly. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  oatmeal  into  one  quart  cold  water;  add 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  let  it  cook  slowly  for  from  one  to  two  hours, 
adding  hot  water  when  needed;  just  before  serving  stir  in  one 
teaspoonful  butter,  or  soak  the  meal  over  night  and  add  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  the  morning. 

Cracked  Wheat  Mush. 

To  one  quart  salted  water  add  three-fourths  cup  cracked  or 
rolled  wheat,  and  boil  two  houi-s;  or  it  may  be  soaked  over  night 
and  boil  one  hour. 


PUFFa  31 

Cbackbd  Wheat  Mush,  No.  2. 
Moisten  one  and  one-half  cups  craoked  wheat  with  cold  water, 
:add  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  place  in  a  muslin  bag,  leaving  half 
the  space  for  the  wheat  to  swell;  put  into  a  small  colander  and 
place  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  keep  boiling  from  three  to  four 
liours.  Serve  with  syrup  and  butter  or  cream  and  sugar.  It  is 
nice  sliced  and  fried  when  cold. 

Fbied  Mush  for  Breakfast. 
•  Night  before,  stir  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  a  little  salt 
and   one  pound  of  farina,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  and  pour  it  into 
■a  shallow  dish  to  cool ;  next  morning  cut  it  into  slices,  and  fry  in 
lard  light  brown.     This  is  far  superior  to  com  meal  mush. 

^  Hominy. 

Take  one  cup  hominy  to  one  quart  salted  water  and  soak  over 
night  and  boil  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  milk  and 
■«ugar«     Slice  and  fry  when  cold. 


PUFFS. 

Puffs. 
Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt. 
Pour  into  hot  roll  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Fill  the  pans 
.about  half  full. 

German  Puffs. 
Two  cups  of  sweet  milk  two  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  and  a 
little  salt. 

Graham  Puffs. 
One  eggy  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one  pint  Graham  flour,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour 
gradually;  beat  the  whole  mixture  briskly  with  an  egg-beater;  pour 
into  cast-iron  gem  pans,  well-greased,  and  hot;  bake  in  very  hot 
oven;  this  mixture  is  just  suflicient  for  twelve  gems. 


•*;iV'^-»' 


^:f 


32 


PUFPa 


»  t 


Oatmbal  PuPFa 

Sift  together  one-half  pint  oatmeal,  one-half  pint  Graham,  one- 
half  pint  flour,  one  teaspoonf  ul  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  and 
two  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder;  add  three  beaten  eggs  and  one 
pint  milk;  mix  into  a  thin  batter;  half  fill  well-greased  gem  pans^ 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Potato  Pupfs. 

To  each  two  oupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes  take  one  tablespoonf ul 
of  melted  butter  and  beat  to  a  cream;  put  with  this  two  eggB^ 
whipped  light,  and  a  cupful  of  milk,  salting  to  taste;  beat  all  well; 
pour  into  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  quickly  to  a  light  brown. 
Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked. 

Cbbam  Pupfs. 

One-half  pint  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour.. 
Let  the  water  and  butter  boil,  then  stir  in  the  flour;  let  it  cool;  add 
five  eggs  well  beaten;  beat  all  well;  drop  in  muffin  rings;  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Boil  one  pint  of  milk;  beat  together  one  cup  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  two  eggs;  add  this  to  the  boiling  milk 
and  boil  three  minutes;  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  of  each  cake  and  flll 
with  cream,  putting  the  piece  of  crust  back. 

PUPPBTS. 

One  quart  flour,  one  pint  milk,  two,eggs  beaten  light,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  three  tablespoonf  uls  sugar,  three  teaspoonf  uls  baking 
powder;  bake  quickly. 

Pbovbsbs. 

One  cup  rich  milk,  one  egg,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt;  beat  together  thoroughly,  fill  buttered 
cups  half  full  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

PocKBT  Books. 
One  quart  warm  water  or  milk,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls 
dugar,  one  cup  yeast,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  add  flour 
U>  make  a  sponge,  and  set  to  rise;  when  it  is  risen  work  it  over  and 


Li- 


ROLLS.  33 

set  to  rise  again;  when  light  put  in  a  piece  of  soda  the  size  of  a 
bean;  roll  out,  spread  the  surface  with  butter,  cut  in  squares  and 
double  over  to  form  a  pocket  book  shape;  put  in  a  pan  and  let  stand 
till  lights  then  bake. 


ROLJ.S. 

How  TO  HAKB  Rolls. 
When  mashing  potatoes  for  dinner,  put  a  tablespoonf ul  of  it  into 
one  pint  of  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  and  set  aside  till  bed- 
time; then  strain  it  through  a  colander,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
large  spoonful  nice  lard,  one  large  spoonful  white  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  penny-worth  of  yeast,  and '  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Leave  it  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  In  the  morning  add 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  working  it  well.  Let  it  rise 
again,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  fold 
together,  drawing  a  buttered  knife  through  as  you  fold  thenou^  Let 
them  rise  again  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  light;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  In  cold  weather  the  milk 
should  be  luke-warm;  in  hot  weather  the  milk  should  be  scalded 
and  cooled.  The  potatoes  must  be  pared  before  boiling,  and  the 
kettle  in  which  they  are  boiled  must  be  perfectly  clean. 

Rolls  No.  2. 
Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  when  molded ;   roll  out  half  an  inch 
thick;   spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar;   roll  up  and 
ent  oft  the  size  you  want;  let  rise  and  bake. 

Parkbs  House  Rolls. 
Two  quarts  flour,  one  cup  yeast,   one  pint  milk,  boiled,  then 
«ooled  to  milk-warm,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  shortening,  one  of  sugar; 
lay  a  sponge,  leaving  out  enough  flour  to  mix  in  when  rolling  out; 
if  for  tea,  mix  in  the  morning;  bake  as  soon  as  ready. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. 
Take  light  dough,  as  for  bread;  mix  in  shortening,  an  agg,  and  a 


'<t' 


34  ROLLS. 

little  sugar;  roll  out  to  about  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness;  spread 
with  butter,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon;  roll  up  and  cut 
as  you  would  a  jelly  cake;  put  in  pans  like  biscuit;  set  to  rise. 
When  light,  put  a  little  lump  of  butter,  and  sugar  and  cinnamon 
on  each  one,  and  bake. 

WnrtE  Mountain  Roli^ 

Sixteen  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  sugar,  cup  of  butter,  cup  of 
jreast,  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  four  cups 
of  boiling  milk;  melt  the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  milk,  have  the 
milk  blood  warm  and  mix  the  bread,  adding  the  whites  of  eggs 
aft^r  mixing  in  part  of  the  flc<ur;  knead  stiff  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.  In  the  morning  knead  into  rolls  and  let  rise  till 
light;  rub  the  beaten  whit^  of  an  e^^  over  the  tops  of  rolls,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes. 

Vienna  Twist  Rolls. 

Break  pieces  off  dough  (as  prepared  for  common  rolls)  the  size 
of  an  egg,  and  divide  each  piece  into  two  unequal  pieces,  the  largest 
piece  form  with  the  hands  into  a  plain  roll  tapering  at  each  end; 
lay  them,  thus  formed,  on  a  greased  baking  tin  so  as  not  to  touch 
each  other;  flatten  each  a  little  and  wash  over  with  milk;  divide 
the  remaining  pieces  each  into  three,  roll  the  pieces  out  under  the 
hands  into  strips  a  little  longer  than  the  roll  already  made,  and 
braid  them;  then  lay  each  braid,  as  soon  as  formed,  on  top  of  the 
plain  roll;  when  all  are  made,  wash  over  with  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  twenty  minutes — a  very  handsome  roll  for  a  dinner  party. 

Oatmeat,  Rolls. 

Sift  together  one-half  pint  oatmeal,  one-half  pint  Graham,  one 
pint  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
and  mix  with  three-fourths  pint  milk  into  a  smooth  dough;  turn 
out  and  give  one  or  two  quick  kneadings  to  complete  its  quality; 
I'oll  out  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  cut  out  with  large  round 
tutter,  fold  through  the  centre  laying  one  half  over  on  the  other. 


F" 


KULLS.  86 

lay  them  on  a  greased  baking  tin  so  they  do  not  touch,  wash  over 
with  milk  and  bake  in  a  good  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Italian  Rolls.    . 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  and  one-fourth  the  amount  of 
butter,  work  the  butter  thoroughly  into  the  dough  and  roll  out  to 
about  one-half  an  inch  in  thickness;  cut  into  strips  about  six  inches 
long;  sift  over  them  fine  corn  meal,  place  them,  separated,  on  a 
buttered  baking  tin,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Bbeakfast  Rolls. 

Take  six  potatoes,  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  colander,  one  pint 
warm  water,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  one-half 
cup  yeast;  mix  into  a  stiff  dough  with  Graham  flour,  and  let  rise 
over  night;  in  the  morning  mold  into  rolls  and  bake  when  light. 

Frknch  Rolls. 

Into  one  pound  of  flour  rub  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  well-beaten;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  good  yeast,  a 
little  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  cover  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  till  light;  cut  into  rolls,  dip  the  edges  into  melted 
butter  to  keep  them  from  sticking  together,  and  bake  in  a,  quick 
oven. 

Trkmont  House  Rolls. 

Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  add  one  teaspoonf nl  salt;  make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  and  put  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  butter 
about  the  size  of  an  egg^  one  pint  of  boiled  milk,  and  one  teacupf  ul 
of  yeast.  Do  not  stir,  but  put  them  together  at  night,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place  until  morning.  Then  mix  all  together  and  knead 
tifteen  minutes.  Set  in  a  cool  place  again  for  six  hours,  and  roll 
out  about  one-half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter; 
moisten  one  edge  with  butter,  and  fold  together  like  rolls;  lay  in 
the  pan  so  that  they  will  not  touch,  set  for  half  an  hour  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


I . 


36 


RUSKS. 


R06ETTE8. 
To  three  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  very  light,  add  one  quart  of  milk, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  cut  in  little  pieces  into  the  milk 
and  eggs,  three  coffee  cups  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  three  teaspoonf uls 
of  baking  powder,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten,  very 
light  and  stirred  quickly  into  the  mixture.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


RUSKS. 

SwBET  Rusks. 
In  one  large  coffee  cup  of  warm  milk  dissolve  one  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast;  then  add  three  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and 
beat  all  together;  use  only  flour  enough  to  roll  out,  to  which 
add  two  ounces  of  butter;  let  it  rise.  When  very  light,  knead, 
mold  into  shape,  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  When  light,  bake  in  a 
hot  oven;  when  done,  cover  the  top  with  sugar  dissolved  in  milk. 

Sweet  Rusks,  No.  2. 
One  pint  of  warm  milk — ^new  is  best — one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  yeast;  make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter,  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the 
sugar,  butter,  eggs,  and  salt,  well-beaten  together,  with  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  it  rise  again,  then  make  into 
round  balls,  and  rise  a  third  time.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Rusks. 
Half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea<*\ip  of  yeast,  two  eggs;  mix 
with  sufficient  flour  for  a  stiff  batter  and  raise;  then  add  one  cup  of 
butter,  half  cup  'of  sugar,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  and  a  little  nut- 
meg; let  rise,  and  knead  out  into  biscuits;  let  rise  and  bake.  Just 
before  taking  out  of  the  oven  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  and  rub 
over  the  top,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar;  put  into  the  oven  again  for 
a  moment^  and  serve  hot. 


RUSKS.  37 

Baking  Powder  Rusks. 

Thoroughly  mix  with  one  quart  sifted  flour,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  salt;  then  mix  the 
'beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  half  cup  butter  and  one  cup 
sugar;  now  stir  up  the  flour  prepared  as  above  with  water,  making 
a  dough  of  the  proper  consistency  for  bread;  then  add  the  eggs, 
butter  and  sugar,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Form  into  little  cakes 
and  rub  the  tops  with  sugar  and  water,  and  then  sprinkle  dry  sugar 
over  them  and  bake  immediately. 

Scones. 

Thoroughly  mix  one  quart  sifted  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder;  then  rub  into  one-fourth  pound  butter  and  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  smooth  paste;  roll  out  the  paste  to  one-fourth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  it  into  triangular  pieces,  each  side  of 
which  is  about  four  inches  long;  put  them  into  a  greased  tin  and 
bake  immediately  in  a  very  hot  oven;  when  half  done,  brush  them 
over  with  sweet  milk. 

Scotch  Scones. 

Sift  together  one  quart  flour,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  rub  in 
a  large  tablespoonful  lard  cold;  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  nearly 
one-half  pint  milk;  mix  into  a  smooth  dough,  knead  up  quickly  and 
roll  out  to  one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out  with  a  knife 
into  squares  larger  than  soda  crackers,  fold  each  in  half  to  form 
three-cornered  pieces,  bake  on  a  hot  griddle  eight  or  ten  minutes; 
brown  on  each  side. 

Sally  Lunn. 

One  quart  of  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  eggy  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teacups  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda,  and  a  little  salt.  Scatter 
the  cream  of  tartar,  the  sugar  and  the  salt  into  the  flour;  add 
the  eggs,  the  butter  melted    nud    oni»  cup  of   milk;    dissolve  the 


88  SANDWICHJBa 

soda  in   the  remaimng  cap,  and  stir  all  together   steadily  a  few 
moments.     Bake  in  two  round  pans. 

Sally  Lunn,  No.  2. 

Sift  together  one  quart  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder;  rub  in  t.wo-thirds  cup  butter  cold;  add  four 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  pint  milk;  mix  into  a  firm  batter  like  cup 
rake,  pour  into  two  round  cake  tins,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

P^AiN  Short  Cake. 

One  quart  flour,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  twp  heaping  teaspoon  fuls 
t.jtking  powder;  mix  thoroughly;  then  add  one-quarter  pound 
butter,  and  one-eighth  pound  lard,  and  enough  cold  water  to  make 
a  thick  paste.  Roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut 
into  squares;  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  immediately. 

Scotch  Short  Cakk. 

Sift  together  one  and  a  half  pints  flour,  four  tablespoonf uls  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder; 
rub  in  four  tablespoonf  uls  butter  cold,  add  three  beaten  eggs,  nearly 
one  cupful  milk,  a  teaspoonful  extract  of  orange,  or  lemon;  mix 
into  a  smooth  dough  without  much  handling,  and  roll  out  to  the 
thickness  of  a  quarter  inch,  and  cut  into  shape  of  small  envelopes; 
wash  over  with  milk,  and  lay  on  each  three  thin  slices  of  citron, 
and  a  fow  caraway  seeds.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes. 


SANDWICHES. 

Ham  Sandwiches. 

Take  iivdU -boiled  ham,  one-third  fat  and  two-thirds  lean,  chop  it 
until  it  is  as  fine  as  paste,  then  stir  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  To  one 
teaspoonful  mustard,  mix  one  tablespoonful  Worcesterehire  sauce* 
Use  this  or  more  in  such  proportions  as  you  may  require. 


r 


1 


BANDWICHES.  39 

Ego  Sandwiches. 

Take  elices  of  battered  bread  and  grate  hard-boiled  eggs  on 
each  slice  with  a  coarse  grater,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  then 
lay  two  slices  together. 

This  sandwich  may  be  varied  by  grating  a  layer  of  cold  smoked 
tongne  or  ham  over  the  egg  on  one  slice  and  not  on  the  other. 
These  require  a  light  and  dexterous  hand  to  keep  the  egg  from 
being  crushed. 

Sardine  Sandwiches. 

Open  a  can  of  sardines,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  lay  bits  of  the 
fish  on  well-spread  bread  and  butter;  squeeze  lemon  over  it;  lay  a 
slice  of  buttered  bread  on  top. 

School  Lunch  Sandwiches. 

Beat  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  saltspoonful  of 
Kilt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  fry  it  as  you  would  a  griddle  cake,  and 
lay  between  buttered  bread  or  biscuit,  or  slice  hard-boiled  eggs  or 
nice  stewed  codfish  left  cold,  and  lay  between  slices  of  bread  and 
butter. 

Oyster  Sandwiches. 

Chop  one  quart  raw  oysters  very  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  nutmeg;  mix  with  one-half  cupful  melted  butter,  the  same 
of  rich  cream,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten,  and  eight  powdered 
crackers.  Heat  them  over  steam  in  an  oatmeal  boiler  or  over  the 
fire  until  a  smooth  paste;  set  away  until  very  cold;  then  cut  and 
lay  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 

Tongue  ob  Ham  Sandwiches. 

Chop  fine  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  tongue  or  ham,  season  with 
prepared  mustard  and  black  pepper;  add  melted  butter  and  sweet 
cream  until  smooth  like  a  paste,  then  spread  between  buttered 
slices  of  bread. 


40  TOAST 


TOAST. 


Cbsam  Toabt. 

Take  Blices  of  stale  bread,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonf  ula 
butter,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  salt,  and  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour.  Toast  the  bread  to  a  golden  brown,  have  a  dish  half 
full  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been 
melted;  as  each  slice  is  toasted  dip  it  in  this  for  a  second  and  lay 
in  the  deep  heated  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Have  ready, 
by  the  time  the  bread  is  all  toasted,  the  milk  scalding  hot,  but  not 
boiling;  thicken  this  with  the  flour;  let  simmer  until  cooked;  put 
in  the  remaining  butter,  and  when  this  is  melted  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs;  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  toast,  lifting  the  slices 
that  the  cream  may  run  between;  cover  closely;  set  in  the  oven  a 
few  moments  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Breakfast  Toast. 

.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  well-beaten 
egg,  in  one-half  pint  of  milk.  In  this  mixture  dip  slices  of  bread 
and  fry  them  on  a  buttered  griddle  until  they  are  light  brown  on 
each  side. 

Cheese  and  Ego  Toast. 

Put  a  cupful  of  cheese  crumbs  into  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk;  boil 
until  it  melts.  Have  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Season  the  milk  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste;  turn  in  the  eggs;  stir  rapidly  for 
a  few  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire  and  spread  it  over  some  hot 
slices  of  toasted  bread.  Cut  them  in  halves  and  quarters  and  serve 
on  a  hot  platter. 

Ham  Toast. 

Melt  in  a  stew  pan  a  small  piece  of  butter  till  it  is  browned  a 
little;  put  in  as  much  finely-minced  ham  as  will  cover  a  round  of 
buttered  toast,  and  add  gravy  enough  to  make  moist.  When  quite 
hot  stir  in  quickly  with  a  fork  one  egg.  Place  the  mixture  ot'»t 
the  toast,  which  cut  into  pieces  of  any  shape  you  may  fancy. 


•t 


WAFFLB8  41 

Spanish  Toast. 

Beat  three  eggs  to  a  foam;  toast  a  few  slices  of  bakers^  bread; 
^p  them  in  the  egg,  and  fry  them  to  a  light  brown. 

Fbisd  Bbead. 

Take  dry  bread,  dip  it  in  hot  water  quickly,  and  lay  on  a  hot 
pancake  griddle,  which  has  some  lard  or  butter  melted,  salt;  when 
nicely  browned  on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other  and  brown;  add 
more  butter  when  needed.  Some  prefer  the  bread  dipped  in  egg 
first. 


WAFFLES. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  warm,  four  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg^  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  teacup  of  yeast,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter;   let  it  rise  three  hours.     Bake  in  wafQle -irons. 

Waffles,  No.  2. 

Four  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately;  two  ta]|;>lespoonfuls  short- 
ening, one  quart  milk,  one  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  salt;  add  the  whites 
last;  add  two  teaspoonf uls  cream  of  tartar  to  flour  enough  to  make 
tbin  batter. 

Waffles,  No.  3. 

One  pint  sour  cream  (or  part  milk),  two  eggs,  one  spoonful  soda, 
half  spoonful  salt;   then  make  same  as  above. 

Waffles,  No.  4. 

One  pint  of  buttermilk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  one 
tablespoonf  ul  of  salt,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda;  mix  your  milk,  flour 
and  salt,  then  sift  the  soda  over  the  batter;  break  the  white  of  one 
-egg  in  a  plate  and  put  the  yolk  in  the  batter;  beat  in  well;  now 
whip  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  thoroughly — 
•do  not  beat  it  in.  Have  the  waffle-iron  smoking  hot  and  grease 
with  lard  or  other  grease,  which  should  be  free  from  either  water 


%. 


42  WAFFLES. 

or  salt,  as  both  make  the  waffles  stick.     If  the  milk  be  very  sour,, 
use  more  soda  to  sweeten  it.     Sour  batter  will  »«tick  to  the  irons,  too. 

Bbbad  Waffles. 
Crusts  and  pieces  can  be  put  in  a  pitcher  and  milk  poured  over 
them;    when  needed,  add  more  milk,  and  a  little  flour,  to  make  the 
right  consistency;  enough  soda  to  make  sweet,  salt,  and  make  waf- 
fles, or  pancakes. 

Rice  Waffles.  , 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  boiled  rice,  the  same  of  flour,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  a  scant  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  sAlt,  three  eggs,  and 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Graham  Wafers. 

Put  a  pinch  of  salt  into  one-half  pound  of  Graham  flour;  wet  it 
with  one-half  pint  of  sweet  cream;  mix  quickly  and  thoroughly; 
roll  out  as  thin  as  possible;  cut  in  strips,  prick,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

One  pint  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonfui 
butter;  flavor  with  lemon;  mix  into  a  batter  with  a  little  milk  toc 
me  consistency  of  sponge  cake^  and  bake  in  wafer-irons. 


\ 

\ 


CHAPTER  III 


C  A  K  K . 


Almond  Cake. 
OTTR  cupe  sifted  flonr,  three  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder^  two^ 


caps  powdered  sagar,  one  cup  butter,  ten  eggs  (the  yolks  and 
whites  whipped  separately,  the  yolks  strained),  one-half 
pound  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  one  tablespoonf ul 
orange-flower  water,  nutmeg.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  until  they  are 
like  whipped  cream,  add  the  strained  yolks,  rub  the  baking  powder 
into  the  flour  and  add  alternately  with  the  whites,  then  the  almond 
paste  in  which  the  nutmeg  and  orange-flower  water  have  been 
mixed;  beat  well  and  bake  as  "snowballs"  in  small,  round,  rather 
deep  pans,  with  straight  sides;  when  done  cover  with  almond  frost- 
ing.    Very  riqh. 

Almond  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  half  cup 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder;  bake  in 
sheets.  Icing — whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  three  tablespoon- 
fals  white  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats;  flavor  to  taste  and 
put  these  between  and  on  top  of  layers. 

Adelaide  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  pint 
flour^  two  teaspoonfuls  of    baking  powder,  one  cup  dried  stoned 
cherries,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonf  ul  vanilla;   mix  smoothly 
'into  a  firm  batter  by  beating  the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together, 
and  adding  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  and  the  other  ingredi- 
ents.    Bake  about  forty  minutes. 


44  OA^E. 

Applb  Oaks. 

Two  eggSy  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  and  one-half 

cups  sugar,  scant  three-fourths  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet  milk, 

three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonf ul  cream  of  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour, 

one-half  teaspoonful  soda  in  the  milk.     Bake  in  jelly  tins  or  cut  for 

dressing. 

Dressing  foe  Same. 

Three  good  sized  sour  apples  grated,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon,  one  egg  beaten,  one  cup  sugar.  Cook  all  together  three 
minutes  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Angels'  Food. 
Take  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tnmblerf uls  of 
granulated  sugar,  one  tumblerful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  sift  the  flour  four 
times,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  again;  but  have  the 
right  measure  before  putting  in  the  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  the  sugar 
and  measure.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  on  a  large  platter;  on 
the  same  platter  add  the  sugar  lightly,  then  the  flour  very  gently, 
then  the  vanilla;  do  not  stop  beating  until  you  put  it  in  the  pan  to 
bake;  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  try  with  a 
straw,  and  if  too  soft,  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes  longer.  Turn 
the  pan  upside  down  to  cool,  and  when  cold,  take  out  by  loosening 
around  the  sides  with  a  knife.  Use  a  pan  that  has  never  been 
greased,  and  there  must  be  on  the  edge  three  projections  of  tin  an 
inch  or  two  deep,  so  that  there  will  be  a  space  between  the  pan 
and  the  table  when  it  is  turned  upside  down.  The  tumbler  for 
measuring  must  hold  two  and  one-quarter  gills. 

Andalusia  Sponge  Cake. 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  and 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  flavor  to  suit  the   taste.       Beat 
quickly  and  bake  at  once. 

Black  Fruit  Cakk. 
Two  pounds  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-half  pound  citron* 


CAKE.  45 

four  oupH  Mugar,  two  cups  butter,  one  cap  molasseB,  eight  eggs,  two 
teaspoonfuk  soda,  one  wine  glass  brandy,  apioe  to  taste.  Half  of 
this  receipt  makes  two  small  loaves. 

Bbidb  Cake. 

The  whites  of  Hixteen  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  ponnd  of 

sagar,  one  pound  of  flour,  one-half  poand  of  butter.     Flavor  with 

almond.     Mix  the  batter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  eggs, 

then  the  flour. 

Bride  Care,  No.  2. 
One  and  one-half  pounds  butter,  one  and  three-fourths  pounds 
sagar  (half  New  Orleans  sugar),  two  pounds  eggs  well-beaten,  four 
pounds  raisins  seeded   and  chopped,  English  currants,  thoroughly- 
cleaned,  five  pounds,  citron  shaved  fine  two  pounds,  sifted  flouf 
two  pounds,  two  nutmegs,  and  an  ei^ual  quantity  of  mace,  one  gill 
of  alcohol,  in  which  are  put  flf- 
teen  drops  of  oil  of  lemon.   Cut 
the  butter  in  pieces  and  put  it 
where  it  will  soften;  stir  it  to 
a  cream,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  work  till  white;  neiabeat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  add 
them  to  the  sugar  and  butter; 
have   the   whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth   and   add  them  to 
i  Ithe   mixture,  then   the  spices 

Fand  flour,  and  last  of  all  the 
fruit,  except  the  citron,  which 
is  to  be  put  in  in  about  three  layers,  one  au  inch  from  the  bottom, 
one  an  inch  from  the   top,  and  one  between;  smooth  the   top  of 
the  cake  by  putting  on  a  spooonful  of  water.     Bake  three  or  four 

Hkkai)  Oakk. 

Four  cups  light  dougli,  two  cups  sugar,  one  oup  butter,  three 

eggs,  one  cup  raiRinx,  a  little  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves, 


^ 

4 


46  GAKS. 

the  same  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  soda)  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Let  it  rise  a  short  time  hefore  baking,  then  put  in  the 
raisins  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Black  Caks. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  one  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  the  yolks  c^ 
eight  eggs,  four  cups  of  browned  flour,  and  spice  to  your  taste. 

Bridgeport  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  thre* 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  one 
cup  raisins,  spice  and  one  glass  brandy. 

BuTTBRlfUT  GaKB. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour, 
three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  meats  of  nuts,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  and  two  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder. 

BOvSTON  Cream  Cake. 

One-half  pint  water,  one-fourth  pound  butter,  six  ounces  flour, 
five  eggs.  Boil  the  butter  and  watef  together,  adding  the  flour 
while  they  are  boiling;  when  thoroughly  stirred  take  it  from  the 
fire;  when  it  is  cold  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  the 
mixture  until  it  is  entirely  free  from  lumps.  .Wet  the  baking  par 
with  a  little  soda  water,  drop  the  mixture  onto  the  pan  by  spoon 
fuls.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven;  avoid  opening  the  oveo 
door  while  baking.  When  the  cakes  are  cool,  oper  them  on  ontf 
side  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture:  One  cup  sugar,  one-hali 
cup  flour,  two  eggs,  and  one  pint  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  and 
flour  together,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  while  it  is  boiling,  stir 
ring  constantly  until  it  thickens;  when  cold,  flavor  to  suit  the  taste 

CocoANUT  Cake. 

Two  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  rolled  fine,  one-third  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  sifted  with  two  teaspoonf  uls 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  frosting 


y 


CAEK 


47 


-and  a  layer  of  desiccated  cocoanut  which  has  been  previously 
soaked  in  milk;  frost  the  top  of  the  cake  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
the  cocoanut. 

Cocoanut  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  four  and 
one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  grated  cocoanut,  and  one  cup  milk.  Rub  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  milk;  mix 
the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  by  sifting.  After  all  are  mixed 
together  put  in  the  cocoanut,  mixing  thoroughly,  and  bake  imme- 
diately.    This  cake  will  keep  for  some  time,  retaining  its  freshness. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonf ul  soda,  one 
teaspoonfui  vanilla.     Bake  in  layers. 

I^ciste  for  Same, — One-half  cake  chocolate  warmed  in  the  oven 
ten  minutes,  one  heaping  teaspoonfui  white  sugar,  one  teaspoon- 
fui cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonfui  ground  cloves,  a  pinch  of  ginger, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla.  Pour  a  little  water  on  the  sugar,  put 
it  on  the  chocolate,  heat  on  the  stove  and  put  in  the  spice  when 
boiled. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

Take  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one-third  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  com  starch,  one 
teaspoonfui  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar;  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla. 

Corn  Starch  Cake,  No.  2. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup  butter,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  corn  starch,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonfui  soda;  flavor 
to  suit  the  taste. 


48  CAKJB. 

Coffee  Cakb. 

Take  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one-half  cap  butter,  one-half  cup 
liugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  strong  cold  coffee,  one  teaspoonf  ul 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one 
teaspoonf  ul  soda  stirred  into  the  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins,  flour 
to  make  of  the  consistency  of  pound  cake. 

Chocolate  Eclaibs. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  ^'  Boston  Cream  Cake,"  form  it  with  a  spoon 
on  the  baking  pan  into  long  narrow  cakes,  leaving  a  space  between; 
when  baked  and  cold  make  an  opening  in  the  side  and  put  in  the 
cream,  which  must  also  be  cold.  Make  the  cream  as  follows: 
Break,  dissolve,  and  mix  smoothly  one  ounce  of  chocolate  with  three 
tablespoonf  uls  warm  water  in  a  bowl ;  set  over  a  boiling  tea-kettle, 
add  gradually  a  cup  of  milk  and  leave  it  to  scald;  beat  one  egg  and 
add  to  it  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  com  starch; 
mix  well  and  stir  into  the  scalded  milk,  then  put  the  whole  into  the 
bowl  over  the  boiling  water,  and  stir  till  it  is  much  thicker  than 
boiled  custard;  add  a  very  little  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla;  after  filling  the  cakes  with  the  custard,  frost  with  hot 
icing  with  two  ounces  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  it.  Vrost  the  top 
only. 

Charlotte  Cacheb. 

One  thick  loaf  of  sponge  or  plain  cup  cake,  two  kinds  of  fruit- 
jelly,  tart  and  sweet,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  heaping  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Cut  the  cake  into  horizontal  slices 
of  uniform  width;  spread  each  with  jelly — ^first  the  tart,  then  the 
sweet — ^and  fit  into  their  former  places;  ice  thickly  with  a  frosting 
made  of  the  whites,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice;  set  in  a  sunny  window  , 
or  slow  oven,  to  harden.     The  former  is  the  better  plan. 

CiDBB  Cake. 

One  cup  6f  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  egg^  well-beaten,  one 
large  cup  of  cider,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  sufficient  to  make 


CAKE.  49 

it  as  thick  as  pound  cake.     One  cup  of  raisins  can  be  added  if 
desired. 

Cakb  Without  Eggs. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  one  pint  sour  milk  or  cream, 
three  cups  flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus;  spice 
to  taste. 

Cbeam  Puffs. 

Melt  one-half  cup  of  butter  in  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  while 
boiling  beat  in  one  cup  of  flpur.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  when 
cool  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without  beating  them.  Drop 
the  mixture  on  tins  in  small  spoonfuls  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Custard  for  the  MUing. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  flour,  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Beat  up  the  eggs  and  sugar  and  stir  in  the  milk  with 
the  flavoring,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  the  flour,  previ- 
ously mixed  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Cool  and  fill  the  puffs  by 
opening  them  a  very  little. 

CriBON  Cajble. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one 
eup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  Make  the  cake  as  above,  put  in  the  pan,  cut  the 
ritron  thin  and  put  in  the  cake  endways;  push  down  until  the 
Datter  covers  the  citron,  and  this  will  prevent  the  citron  from  falling 
to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

Cbeam  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Bake  like  jelly 
cake.  Put  one  cup  of  pulverized  white  sugar  into  one-half  cup  of 
very  thick  sweet  cream,  and  spread  between  the  cakes;  flavor  both 
the  cake  and  cream  to  suit  taste.     This  is  delicious. 

Chocolate  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  "^sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
melted  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  and  one-half 


60  OAKS. 

cups  Sour,  with  three  teaspoonfuU  of  baking  powder  sifted  in. 
Bake  on  three  tins.  Take  whites  of  two  eggs  and  make  a  frostine 
as  for  any  other  cake;  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  two-thirds 
cake  of  German  sweet  chocolate  grated.  Spread  between  layers 
but  not  on  the  top  one.  Take  white  of  one  egg  to  ice  the  top  and 
sides.  Do  not  frost  the  cake  until  cool.  The  same  cake  recipe  may 
be  used  for  cocoanut. 

CuKtSTUAS  Cakb. 
Take  five  pounds  of  flour,  mix  with  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salt, 
rub  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  lard. 
Put  in  half  a  pint  of  good 
fresh     brewers'    yeast,    and 
knead  as  for  common  bread. 
If    there    is    any  diflSculty 
about  the  yeast,  baking  pow- 
der may  be  used,   allowing 
a  heaped  teaspoonf  ul  of  ordi- 
nary baking  powder  for  every 
pound  of  materiaL     If  yeast 
is  used,  let  the  dongh  rise 
before  adding  the  other  in- 
cbbibtkas  Cau.  gredients.       Mix    in     three 

pounds  of  currants,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  moist  sugar,  a 
whole  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel  finely 
minced,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  and  four  eggs,  well-beaten. 
Butter  the  mold  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  abont  two 
hours. 

Cinnamon  Cake. 
Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  four  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately), 
a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  lemon,  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  the  baking  powder  into  the 
fiour. 


CAKE,.  61 

Cinnamon  Cake. 

One  cup  soar  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  melted  butter, 

one  eggy  one-half  teaspoonf ul  soda.     Mix  as  for  cookies,  roll  out, 

and  spread  ground  cinnamon  over  the  top;  then  roll  up  as  a  roll 

jelly  cake  and  slice  off  with  a  sharp  knife  and  bake.     Any  good 

cookie  recipe  will  do. 

Cup  Cake. 

Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar,  add 
four  beaten  eggs,  and  three  cups  of  flour,  into  which  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder  have  been  sifted,  season  with 
extract  of  almonds;  mix  into  a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  well- 
greased  cups  or  muffin  pans. 

CocoANUT  Pound  Cake. 

« 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  one  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour  sifted 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  pin6h  of  salt,  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  grated  lemon  peel,  one-fourth  pound  of  prepared  cocoanut, 
and  a  cup  of  milk;  mix  thoroughly,  butter  the  tins,  and  line  them 
with  buttered  paper;  pour  the  mixture  in  to  the  depth  of  one  and 
one-half  inches,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven;  when  baked  spread  icing 
over  them.    Return  the  cake  to  the  oven  a  moment  to  dry  the  icing. 

Clove  Cake. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  large  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  stirred  well  into  the  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful 
of  nutmeg,  four  eggs;  chop  the  raisins.  For  less  quantity  divide 
proportionately. 

Delicate  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
ihree  even  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder  pif 


/ 


52  CAKE. 

in  the  flour  and  mixed;  stir  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  to  them 
add  the  milk,  then  put  in  the  flour,  and  last  add  the  beaten  eggs; 
flavor  with  lemon.     Stir  the  whole  mixture  well. 

Dbucious  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,* three 
cups  of  sifted  flour.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites;  dissolve  the  soda 
in  the  milk,  rub  the  cream  of  tartar  into  the  flour  and  add;  flavor 
with  extract  of  bitter  almond. 

Drop  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  and 
one-fourth  pounds  flour,  five  eggs.  To  be  dropped  by  the  table- 
spoonful  on  buttered  pans  and  baked. 

Dough  Cake. 

Two  cups  light  dough,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  half  cup 
milk,  two  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one 
cup  rskisins;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

DovEB  Cake. 

Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar,  add  six 
eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  between  each  addition, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  sifted  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
extract  of  cinnamon  and  orange;  bake  in  rather  hot  oven  forty 
minutes. 

DtJNDEE  Cake. 

Whip  to  a  cream  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  the  same 
amount  of  sugar;  add  eight  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes 
between  each  addition,  one-half  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  flour,  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
one-half  of  a  lemon  peel  cut  in  thin  slices,  one  cup  of  washed^ 
picked,  and  dried  currants,  one  and  one-half  cups  sultana  raisins^ 


CAKE.  53 

one  teaspoonfal  each  of  extract  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  vanilla;  mix 
into  a  firm  batter,  pour  into  a  shallow,  square  cake  pan;  chop  one 
cup  of  almonds  coarsely  and  sprinkle  over  the  top;  then  bake  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Dbied  Apple  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  dried  apples,  chopped  fine  and  soaked  in  water  over 
night,  then  cook  in  one  cup  of  molasses  until  soft;  add  one  cup 
each  of  butter,  sugar,  and  sour  milk,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  lemon  extract,  one  nut- 
meg. A  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added.  Bake  in  a  greased  cake 
dish  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Election  Cake. 

Beat  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar  to  a 
white,  light  cream;  add  three  eggs,  beating  a  little  longer,  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder, 
two  cups  of  raisins,  stoned,  one  cup  of  currants  well  cleaned,  one- 
lialf  cup  chopped  citron,  one-half  of  a  lemon  peel,  chopped,  one-half 
cup  of  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  into  shreds,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  extract  of  vanilla  and  of  bitter  almonds,  one  cup  of  milk;  mix 
into  a  consistent  batter,  put  into  a  paper-lined  tin  and  bake  in  a 
moderate,  steady  oven  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Everyday  Fruff  Cake. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two 
cups  of  raisins,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  salt, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  citron  and  wine  to  suit  the  taste. 

Egoless  Cake. 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  level 
cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg, and  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins. 

English  Christmas  Cake. 
Sift  ive  pounds  of  flour;  mix  with  ft  one  tablespoonful  of  salt. 


64  CAKE. 

one  and  one-half  pounds  of  batter  and  half  a  pint  of  fresh  brewer's 
yeast,  or  five  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  if  yeast  is  used,  allow 
dough  to  rise  before  adding  other  ingredients;  mix  in  three  pounds 
of  washed  currants,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  "  A "  sugar,  one 
nutmeg  grated,  one-fourth  pound  of  chopped  candied  lemon  peel, 
one  wine  glass  of  brandy,  and  four  well-beaten  eggs;  butter  the 
tins  and  line  them  with  buttered  paper;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  two  hours.  The  quantity  of  brandy  recommended  will  serve  to 
keep  these  cakes  fresh  for  an  indefinite  time. 

Fruit  Cake  fbom  Dough. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  pint  of  dough,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  as  much  fruit  as  you  wish,  spices  to 
suit  the  taste;  use  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  conmion  fruit 
cake;  set  in  a  warm  pla^e  to  raise.  When  light  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour, 
eight  eggs,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one-fourth 
pound  of  citron,  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  spices  of  all  kinds.  Bake  two 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Fruit  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  cream,  four  eggs,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  citrons  and  currants  according  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  spice  to  taste.     Warranted  to  keep  a  year. 

Fruit  Jelly  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  same  of  sweet  milk, 
four  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
stir  together,  then  divide  into  three  equal  parts.  Into  one  part  stir 
one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  tea- 
spoonful each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Bake,  and  put 
together  with  jelly  or  frosting. 


CAEK  66 

» 

Favorite  Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
three  eggs,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of 
Boda,  three  cups  of  flour;  mix  and  bake  in  fine,  thin  layers*,  For 
the  jelly  grate  the  rind  of  three  small  or  two  large  lemons  and  add 
the  juice  of  the  same  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of 
"water,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  mix 
with  a  little  water  and  boil  till  it  thickens,  then  place  between  the 
layers  of  the  cake.     Make  before  needed  for  use. 

Fig  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  each  of  butter  and  sweet  milk,  four 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder,  twelve  beaten 
eggs;  bake  in  layers.  Take  one  pound  of  figs,  boil  till  smooth 
and  put  between  each  layer  with  or  without  frosting.  Frost 
the  top. 

Fig  Cake,  No.  2. 

A  large  cup  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
Bweet  milk,  three  pints  of  sifted  flour,  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  the  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  of  figs  cut  into  strips  like  citron  and  well  floured. 

Fbench  Loaf  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  three  eggs,  three  cups  of 
flour;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Feather  Cake. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  to  it  two  cups  of 
sugar  and  beat  well  together;  one  cup  of  milk  with  one  teaspoonf  ul 
of  soda  dissolved  in  it;  beat  well  together;  then  add  one  cup  of  sifted 
flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  previously  rubbed 
into  it;  add  next  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  three  eggs,  beat  the  whites 
separately  until  stiff,  add  then\  and  then  two  more  cups  of  flour; 


1 


I 


66  CAKE. 

beat  well  between  each  successive  addition;  butter  two  middle-sized 
tins,  put  in  the  cake  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

FsATHEB  Cake,  No.  2. 

Onis  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  melted  butter,  one 
egg,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  even  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two  even 
teaspoonf uls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda;  ^avor  with  lemon;  sift 
cream  of  tartar  and  soda  into  the  flour.  You  will  be  surprised  when 
you  come  to  make  this  cake,  it  is  so  delicious. 

Gold  Cake. 
The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of 
baking  powder;  flavor  with  orange  extract. 

Gentleman's  Favokite. 

Seven  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of 
sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  butter  worked  to  a  cream,  one  table- 
Spoonful  of  water,  two  teaspoons,  level  full,  of  baking  powder,  two 
cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt;    bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

Jelly  for  Same. — One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  grated  apples 

without  the  peelings,  one  lemon;    stir  till  it  thickens.     Cool  before 

using. 

Ginger  Drop  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of 

butter,  six  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  hot  water,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of 

soda,  one  teaspoon ful  of  ginger,  and  one  of  cinnamon.     Drop  in 

hot  tins  and'  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Gingerbread  Loaf. 
One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  sugar,  half  of  cold 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  melt  the  butter,  slightly 
warm  the  molasses,  spice  and  sugar,  and  heat  together  ten  minutes; 
tlfeen  put  in  the  water,  soda  and  flour;  stir  very  hard  and  bake  in 
three  loaves.    Brush  them  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and  eat  fresh. 


CAKE.  67 

#         

Oingeb-Brkad. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  one  glass  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one-half  pint  of  melted  lard;  put  the  soda  into 
the  milk  and  molasses  and  beat  to  a  foam.  Make  the  dough  very 
soft. 

Soft  Gingbb-Bbkad. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one 
cup  q£  New  Orleans  molasses,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  three  eggs,  well  beaten;  stir  the  better  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  eggs,  milk  and  flour. 

Soft  Gingeb-Bbbad,  No.  2. 

Onecoffeecup  each  of  sugar,  molasses,  and  butter,  four  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  large  teaspoonf uls  of  ginger,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  sour  milk;  stoned  raisins  may 
be  added.     Bake  in  sponge-cake  tins. 

Gixgeb  Cup  Cake. 

Mix  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar  with  two  cups  of  warmed 
butter;  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of  molasses,  four  heaping 
cups  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh-ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  dissolved  saleratus;  mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  buttered 
molds  or  patty  pans;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gboom*8  Case.  , 

Ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  each  of  butterii^  white 
sugar,  and  flour,  two  pounds  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  flne, 
one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  citron  shaved  flne; 
beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  well- 
beaten  yolks;  stir  all  till  very  light,  then  add  the  chopped  almonds; 
beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  gently  with  the  flour;  take  a  little 
more  flour  and  sprinkle  over  the  raisins  and  citron,  then  put  in  the 
cake  pan,  first  a  layer  of  cake  batter,  then  a  layer  of  ^aisins  and 


*^ 


68  CAKE. 

citron,  then  cake,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  finishing  off  with  a. 
layer  of  cake.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours. 

Graham  Cup  Cake. 

Rub  to  a  light  eream  two-thirds  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar;  add  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  two  cups  of 
Graham  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  extract  of  lemon;  mix  into  a  moderately  thin  batter; 
bake  in  well-greased  cups,  or  muffin  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

HicKOBY-NUT  Cake. 

3Vo  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of 
flour,  three-fourths  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda 
disaolved  in  the  milk,  one  teaspoouful  of  cream  of  tartar  put  into 
the  flour,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Just  before  baking  add  two 
cups  of  hickory-nut  meats. 

HiCKOBY-NUT  DbOP   CaKE. 

I 

Whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  one  pound  of 
rolled  sugar,  one  cup  of  hickory-nat  meats,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  with  flour  to  stiffen  so  as  to  drop.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

HUCKLEBEBBY   CaKE. 

Rub  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  add  four 
beaten  eggs,  one  an^  one-half  pints  of  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  oup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  huckle- 
berries, one  teaspoonful  each  of  extract  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
allspice;  put  in  a  paper-lined  bake  tin  and  bake  in  a  qui<ik  oven 

fifty  minutes. 

Honey  Cake. 

Mix  together  one  cup  of  honey  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  add  one- 
half  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  pint  flour  sifted 
with  two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder,  ohe  teaspoonful  of  cara- 
way seeds.  Mix  into  a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
thirty  minutes. 


^ 

^ 


CAKE.  69- 

^     {mperial  Cake. 

One  pound  each  of  sngkr  and  flour,  three-fourths  pound  of  butter^ 
one  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  cut  fin^^ne-half  pound  of 
citron,  one-half  pound  of  raisins,  the  rind  and  pnce  of  one  lemon,. 
one  nutmeg  and  ten  eggs. 

Ic£-CBB4ift(  Cake. 

To  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  lightly  beaten,  add  two  cups  of  sugar,. 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  and  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  thin  layers  and  use  as  a. 
cream,  to  spread  between,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  of  water  boiled  together;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to 
&  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  syrup  will  hair,  pour  it  into  the  whites 
and  stir  as  fast  as  possible;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  spread 
between  the  layers  and  over  the  top. 

» 

Jelly  Cake.       ^  — ^ 

Beat  to  a  xream  three-fourths  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of 
stl^ar;  a^dOe  eegs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  between 
each  addition,  one  tod  one-fourth  pints  of  flour  sifted  with  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  milk;  mix  to  a 
\  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  jelly-cake  tins;  spread  with  currant  or 
other  frtiitr  jeUy.  Cj     ^  Li    >.  j   -  ^        , 

Nl        I   JelAy  Rolls. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder.  Stir  well  and  spread  thin  on  a  long  baking  tin  or 
dripping  pan.  Bake  quickly,  turn  out  on  a  cloth,  spread  With  jelly 
and  roll  up. 

Kaffee  Kuchen. 

f^  One  pound  light  raised  dough,  one  qutice  of  sugar  and  three  of 
butter,  one  egg; -cream  the  butter  and  beat  well  with  the  sugar  and 

\     the  egg;  add  the  dough  and  mix  thoroughly  wi^  the  hand;  put  it 

-*'     in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  when  light,  pour  it  in  a  small  dripping  pan 

(when  baked  it  should  not  be  more  than  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick} 


\ 


«0 


CAKE 


and  let  it  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  put  in  the  oven  and  while 

baking  prepare  this  icing: 

~  wo  aln^nds  and  shred  them;  add  to  the  beaten  whites 

^  one  cijp  of  sugar;  stir  in  the  almonds,  and  when  the 
ted  cover  it  with  the  icing  and  dry  in  the  oven.  The 
ay  be  browned  a  little  if  liked. 

Knicexbbockbb  Caeb. 
3-half  pound  of  fresh  butter  to  a  cream;  add  one-half 
iwwdered  sugar,  three-fourths  pound  of  sifted  flour,  a 
ful  of  orange-flour  water,  and  one  of  brandy,  and  four 
vashed  currants;  add  five  well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  the 
til  very  light.  Line  some  shallow  cake  tins  with  but- 
r,  pour  in  the  mixture  until  they  are  one-half  full,  and 
luick  oven. 

Lehok  Cakb. 
;8  beaten  with  three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter,  one 
[,  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  lemon  rind  grated,  half  a 
1  soda  dissolved  well  in  the  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
irtar  in  the  flour;  after  all  is  well  beaten,  add  the  juice 
m  and  bake  immediately. 

Lemon  Cake,  No.  2. 
well-beaten  eggs,  add  two  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
f  baking  powder;  bake  in  jelly  tins  and  put  together 
ting  made  of  the  white  of  one  egg,  the  juice  and  grated 
lemon,  and  sugar  enough  to  stiffen. 

Lbmoh  Jellt  Cake. 
ether  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  butter, 
p  milk,  two  cups  flour  sifted,  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
rder;  bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

'  Satne. — Two-thirds  cup  of  water,  one  cup  sugar,  the 
rated  rind  of  one  lemon;  mix  together  and  let  boil;  then 


CAKE.  61 

stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs.       When  cold,  spread  between  the 
layers  of  cake;  also  upon  the  top,  or  the  top  may  be  frosted. 

Lady  Cakb. 
Rub  to  a  cream  two-thirds  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar; 
add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  flour,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonf  ul  extract  of  bitter  ahnond;  then  add  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs  whipped  to  a  froth;  when  thoroughly  mixed> 
put  into  a  paper-li4ed  tin  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  forty  minute^, 
When  cool,  ice  the  bottom  and  sides  with  white  icing. 

LimcH  Cakb. 
Beat  thoroughly  two  cups  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  ad<J 
two  cups  of  egg  well  beaten,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour  sifted 
with  a  heaping  teaspoonf  ul  baking  powder,  one  gill  of  wine,  one 
teaspoonf  ul  each  of  extract  of  rose,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  mix  inta 
a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour;  when  cold^- 
ice  with  white  icing. 

Light  Cakb. 

Beat  six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately;  beat  with  the  yolks 
one  pound  white  sugar,  and  three-fourths  pound  of  butter;  add  one 
pound  of  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one 
cup  sweet  milk  with  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  one  pound  raisins, 
a  little  citron,  and  len^on  peel,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth.  Bake  in  a  paper-lined  cake  tin  one  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Loaf  Cakb. 

Six  cups  of  bread  dough,  five  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cloves  and  cinnamon  mixed, 
and  half  of  a  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Mabblbd  Cakb. 

Light  part:  One  and  one-half  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda^ 


02  CAKE. 

one  teaspoonful  oream  of  tartar  sifted  with  two  and  one-half  cups 
Hour,  whites  of  four  eggs;  beat  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Dark  part:  One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of 
cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg. 

With  a  spoon  drop  the  two  batters  alternately  into  a  papered 
cake-tin. 

Mountain  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  corn  starch,  one  cup'  of  flour,  whites  of  six 
«ggs,  a  little  vanilla,  two  teaspoonf uls  bakmg  powder.  Bake  in 
layers. 

Frosting  for  ^ftowe.— Whites  of  five  eggs,  twenty  tablespoon- 
f uls  sifted  sugar,  beaten  very  light,  and  a  little  vanilla.  Spread 
between  layers  and  on  the  outside  of  the  cake. 

Madeira  Cake. 

Beat  together  two  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  two  cups  of 

«ugar;  add  seven  well-beaten  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pints  flour 

sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  mix  with  one 

gill  of  Madeira  wine  into  a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  a  paper-lined 

cake-tin  in  a  8tea)dy  oven  about  one  hour,  and  ice  with  transparent 

icing. 

Molasses  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  cap  of  brown  sugar;  add 

.  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half 

pints  of  flour  sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 

powder;  mix  into  a  consistent  batter  and  bake  about  forty  minutes. 

Molasses  Cake. 
Beat  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
*^  ®gg>  *^d  oi^^  ^^'^\  add  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  cups  of  flour,  sifted, 
spices  to  suit  the  taste,  and  a  cup  of  chopped  raisins.  Bake  in  a 
VL  lerate  oven. 


CAKE.  63 

Mabblbd  Chocolatb  Cakk. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  four 
well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  take  out  one  cup  of  this  batter  and  mix  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chocolate  dissolved  with  a  little  cream;  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  with  the  white  batter  and  drop  upon  it  in  places 
a  spoonful  of  the-  chocolate,  forming  rings,  then  another  layer  of 
the  batter,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MoRSTON  Farm  Cake.  ^ 

Two  pounds  of  butter,  softened  throughout,  but  not  melted;  add 
two  pounds  of  nice,  white,  soft  sugar,  afid  mix  together  until 
creamed;  take  out  one-half  and  reserve  it  in  a  separate  bowl  until 
wanted.  To  the  rest  add  one  quart  of  pretty  warm,  sweet  milk; 
stir  in  gradually  four  pounds  of  flour,  then  mix  in  very  thoroughly 
a  teacupful  of  lively,  home-made  yeast.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  very  light,  which  will  take  about  four  hours;  then  add 
the  remainder  of  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  a  little  more  flour  if 
needed;  add  two  pounds  of  raisins  nicely  stoned,  a  little  pulverized 
mace,  and,  if  at  hand,  some  candied  lemon  peel;  let  it  rise  again, 
and  when  well  raised  mix  it  well,  using  the  hands,  and  proportion 
it  off  into  well-buttered  pans;  let  them  stand  in  a*moderately  warm 
place  until  beginning  to  rise ;  put  them  into  a  steady  oven  and  bake 
them  fully  an  hour,  or  longer  if  only  one  or  two  pans  are  used« 
There  are  no  eggs  used  in  this  cake — none  are  needed.  It  is  an 
excellent  cake  for  economical  housekeepers  to  make  in  winter,  when 
eggs  are  scarce  and  high-priced.  If  the  top  and  sides  are  frosted 
it  will  keep  moist  for  a  long  time.  Brown  paper  is  nice  to  wrap 
cake  in  before  putting  it  into  the  cake  box. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  and  two  cups  of  chopped  nut  meats. 


Nut  Cake,  No.  2. 

Two  eggfl,  one  cap  of  eugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter;  beat  together 
and  add  one-half  cap  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cnps  of  sifted 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  large  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts;  frost  when  baked;  mark  in  squares  and  put  half  a  nut 
meat  on  each  square. 

Whitb  Nut  Caxb. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  cup  of  butter,  two 
onps  of  sugar,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  teaspoonfnl  of  yeast 
powder.  After  the  butter  is  well  mixed  add  one  large  cocoanut, 
grated;  one  large  tumblerful  of  the  kernels  of  pecans,  and  one 
tumblerful  of  blanched  almonds,  the  almonds  to  be  slightly 
mashed  in  a  mortar. 

Neapolitan  Cake. 

Black:  Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  strong  coffee,  four  and  a  half  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  four  e^s,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  two  of  cinnamon, 
two  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  of  onrranti, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron. 

White:  One  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  white  sugar,  two  cups 
of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  corn-starch  mixed  with  four  and-a-half 
cnps  of  sifted  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuU  of 
baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  bitter  almonds. 

Bake  the  cakes  in  round  jelly  pans  with  straight  edges;  the 
loaves  should  be  one  and  a-half  inches  thick  after  baking.  When 
the  cake  is  cold,  each  black  loaf  should  be  spread  with  a  thick  coat- 
ing of  lemon  and  sugar,  made  as  follows:  The  white  of  one  egg 
thoroughly  beaten,  the  grated  rind  of  two  and  the  juice  of  three 
lemons;  powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  a  thick  frosting;  lay  a 
'  white  loaf  on  each  black  one  and  frost  as  you  would  any  other  cake. 
Lady  FiNOBBS. 

Riih  hulf  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  fiour;   add  half  a 
lugar;  grate  in  the  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  squeeze  in  the 


^ 


CAKE.  66 

juice  of  one;  then  add  three  eggs;   make  into  a  roll  the  size  of  the 

middle  finger;   it  will  spread  in  the  oven  to  the  size  of  a  thin  oake; 

dip  in  chocolate  icing. 

OiUKGB  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  whites  of  five,  three  tea^ 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one  orange. 
Bake  in  four  layers. 

MUing. — ^Whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  one  orange,  fifteen  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Beat  together,  spread  between  the  layers  and 
on  the  outside  oft  cake.  Pare  and  divide  in  small  sections  two 
oranges  and  put  on  top  of  cake. 

Obangb  Cake,  No.  2. 

Three  eggs,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  one  and  a-half  cups  of 
sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder 
sifted  with  the  flour,  one-half  cup  of  rich  milk,  a  very  little  salt, 
orange  juice,  or  some  extract  of  lemon.     Bake  on  jeUy-cake  tins. 

JMyfoT  Orange  Cake, — ^Take  two  good  oranges,  grate  a  part  of 
the  rind  of  one,  then  peel  them  and  grate  them  all;  remove  the 
seeds  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  water,  and 
scakl  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.  Take  one  table- 
spoonful  of  com  starch,  mix  smooth  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold 
water  and  stir  into  the  orange  and  cook  just  enough  to  cook  the 
com  starch;  when  nearly  or  quite  cold,  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  add  powdered  sugar  for  frosting;  leave  out  a  little  of 
this  for  the  top  of  the  cake  if  you  like,  and  stir  the  rest  into  the 
orange,  and  you  will  have  a  jelly  that  will  not  run  off  or  soak  into 
the  cake. 

Pbbfectiok  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
eup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Before  sifting  the  flour  put  in  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  sift  all  together.     Dissolve  the  com 

-5 


66  CAKE. 

starch  in  the  milk  and  add  it  to  the  butter  and  sugar  well  beaten 
together;  then  add  the  flour  and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Never  beat 
in  a  tin  dish. 

Pork  Cake. 

Take  one  pound  fat  salt  pork  free  from  lean  or  Hnd,  chop  as  fine 
as  to  be  almost  like  lard,  pour  upon  it  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
water;  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  stirred  into  the  molasses,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-fourth 
pound  of  citron  shaved  fine;  stir  in  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  of 
the  consistency  of  common  cake  batter;  season  with  one  spoonful 
each  of  nutmeg  and  cloves  and  two  teaspoonfulgL  cinnamon.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Portuguese  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  four  cups  of 
sugar,  add  eight  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  between 
each  addition,  one  pint  flour  sifted  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  three  cups  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  water,  one  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  one  cup  of 
currants;  season  with  nutmeg;  mix  into  a  batter  and  bake  in  a 
well-papered  tin  in  a  steady  oven  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Puff  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonf uls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
fioda,  and  three  cups  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Pine-Apple  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups 
of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  and  yolks  of  four,  three  teaspoonf  uls  of 
baldng  powder  well  mixed  through  flour;  bake  in  jelly-cake  pans; 
grate  a  pine-apple;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  spread  between  the  layers; 
pine-apple  jam  may  be  substituted;  frost  the  outside;  beat  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  pine-apple  into  the  frosting. 


i 


CAKE.  67 

Pound  Cake  without  Soda. 
One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  eight 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separately  and  well,  ten  ounces  flour, 
one  nutmeg.     Bake  one  hour. 

CocoANUT  Pound  Cakb. 

Beat  one-half  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonf uls  of 
baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  grated  lemon 
peel,  one-fourth  pound  of  prepared  coooanut,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
one  cup  of  milE;  mix  thoroughly;  butter  the  tins  and  line  them 
with  buttered  paper;  pour  the  mixture  in  to  the  depth  of  one  and 
one-half  inches,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven;  when  baked,  take  out, 
spread  icing  over  them  and  return  to  the  oven  to  dry  the  icing. 

Pound  Cakb. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder.  Beat 
butter  and  flour  to  a  cream;  beat  four  eggs  and  sugar  very  light; 
put  all  together  and  add  the  baking  powder. 

Plum  Cakb. 

Beat  together  two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  gill  brandy,  two  pounds  each  of 
currants  and  raisins,  one-half  pound  citron,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda.    Flour  to  thicken. 

QuiNCY  Cakb. 

One  cup  of  butter,  thi'ee  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  four  cups  of 
flour  sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonf  uls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  juice  and  rind  of 
one  fresh  lemon,  whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake 
one  and  one-half  or  two  hours  in  a  pan. 


y  m 


\ 


I 


66  CAKE. 

Btarch  in  the  milk  and  add  it  to  the  butter  and  sugar  well  beaten 
together;  then  add  the  flour  and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Never  beat 
in  a  tin  dish. 

Pork  Cake. 

Take  one  pound  fat  salt  pork  free  from  lean  or  rind,  chop  as  fine 
as  to  be  almost  like  lard,  pour  upon  it  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
water;  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  stirred  into  the  molasses,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-fourth 
pound  of  citron  shaved  fine;  stir  in  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  of 
the  consistency  of  common  cake  batter;  season  with  one  spoonful 
each  of  nutmeg  and  cloves  and  two  teaspoonf ulsLcinnamon.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

POETUGUESE   CaKE. 

Beat  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  four  cups  of 
sugar,  add  eight  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  between 
each  addition,  one  pint  flour  sifted  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  three  cups  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  water,  one  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  one  cup  of 
currants;  season  with  nutmeg;  mix  into  a  batter  and  bake  in  a 
well-papered  tin  in  a  steady  oven  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Puff  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  three  cups  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oVen. 

Pine-Apple  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cupa 
of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  and  yolks  of  four,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  well  mixed  through  flour;  bake  in  jelly-cake  pans; 
grate  a  pine-apple;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  spread  between  the  layers; 
pine-apple  jam  may  be  substituted;  frost  the  outside;  beat  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  pine-apple  into  the  frosting. 


CAKE.  67 

Pound  Cake  without  Soda. 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  eight 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separately  and  well,  ten  ounces  flour, 
one  nutmeg.     Bake  one  hour. 

CocoANUT  Pound  Cake. 

Beat  one-half  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonf uls  of 
baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  grated  lemon 
peel,  one-fourth  pound  of  prepared  cocoanut,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
one  cup  of  milk:;  mix  thoroughly;  butter  the  tins  and  line  them 
with  buttered  paper;  pour  the  mixture  in  to  the  depth  of  one  and 
one-half  inches,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven;  when  baked,  take  out, 
spread  icing  over  them  and  return  to  the  oven  to  dry  the  icing. 

Pound  Cake. 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder.     Beat 
butter  and  flour  to  a  cream;  beat  four  eggs  and  sugar  very  light; 
put  all  together  and  add  the  baking  powder. 

Plum  Cake. 
Beat  together  two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  gill  brandy,  two  pounds  each  of 
currants  and  rabins,  one-half  pound  citron,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda.    Flour  to  thicken. 

QuiNCY  Cake. 
One  cup  of  butter,  thi'ee  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  four  cups  of 
flour  sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  juice  and  rind  of 
one  fresh  lemon,  whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake 
one  and  one-half  or  two  hours  in  a  pan. 


68 


CAKE. 


Queen  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sagar,  one  pound  of  flour  sifted  with  a  heaping 
teaspoonf ul  of  baking  powder,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter^ 
five  eggs,  one  gill  of  sweet  cream,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  extract  of 
nectarine,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  one  grated  nutmeg;  beat 
the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
then  the  cream  and  flour,  and  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Railboad  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  or  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt;  beat  all  together  as  for 
sponge  cake,  and  spread  on  two  square  tins  to  bake. 

Reception  Cake. 

Beat  together  two  cups  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  add  ten 
beaten  eggs,  one  quart  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking 
powder,  two  cups  of  currants,  one  cup  of  shaved  citron,  one-half  of 
an  orange  peel  cut  fine,  one-half  cup  of  blanched  almonds  cut  fine; 
season  with  allspice  and  cinnamon;  put  into  a  paper-lined  cake  tin 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Bice  Cake. 

Beat  together  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  four 
eggs;  add  one-h^  cup  of  sweet  cream;  sift  together  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  rice  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  and  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  mix  air  together  and  season 
with  lemon  extract.     Bake  in  patty  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

RocHSSTSB  Jelly  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder.  Take  one-half  of  the 
above  mixture  and  bake  in  two  square  pans,  then  add  to  the 
remainder    one    cup   of    stoned   and  chopped  raisins,    one-fourth 


CAKE.  69 

• 

pound  of  citron  shaved  fine,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg, 
one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  allspice,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  molasses  and  flour.     Bake  in  like  pans  and  place  in  alternate 
layers  with  raspberry  jam  or  any  kind  of  jelly. 
The  same  put  together  with  frosting  is  called  Ribbon  Cake. 

Silver  Cake. 

Beat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs;  add  two  cups  of  sugar, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter;  beat  well  together  and  add  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  cups  of  flour 
sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar;  flavor  with  any 
extract. 

The  same  made  by  substituting  the  yolks  for  the  whites  makes 
a  nice  gold  cake. 

Snow  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping- 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.     Sift  all  together  through  a  sieve 
and  add  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Swiss  Cake. 

One-quarter  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir 
the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix 
and  flavor  with  lemon.     This  makes  a  good  and  inexpensive  cake. 

Delicious  Sponge  Cake. 

»• 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  twelve  ounces  of  flour,  a  pinch 
of  salt;  flavor.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  the  yolks  till 
the  bubbles  look  fine.  When  the  yolks  are  beaten  enough  add  the 
sugar  and  beat  till  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  add  the  whites,  and 
lastly  the  flour,  and  bake  immediately  in  brick-shaped  tins.  This 
will  make  two  loaves.  You  will  find  your  cake  so  much  nicer  if 
haked  in  a  paste.  Make  with  flour  and  water  only;  roll  out  on  the 
board  same  as  pie  crust,  line  your  greased  tins  all  over  inside  with 


r 

^ 


/■■• 


70 


CAKE. 


the  paste  and  pour  in  the  batter.  Bake  nearly  an  hour.  Do  not 
break  off  the  paste  till  you  want  to  use  it.  Your  cake  will  be  more 
moist  and  keep  longer;  indeed,  the  cake  will  be  much  better  a  day 
or  two  old. 

Spongb  Cakb  with  Hot  Water. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  two  eggs,  well  beaten  together,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  cup  of  flour;  stir  well 
together,  then  stir  in  one-third  cup  of  boiling  water  or  milk;  bake 
quickly  in  a  buttered  tin.  If  these  directions  are  followed  the  cake 
will  be  very  nice. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  together  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar  ten 
minutes;  add  to  it  one  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  one-half  teaspoonful 
baking. powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  orange;  then  add  the 
whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake  in  a  well-greased  cake 
mould  in  a  steady  oven  thirty  minutes. 

WflrrE  Sponge  Cake. 

Sift  together  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  com  starch,  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  rose,  then  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth;  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  well-buttered  cake  tin  in 
a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes.  • 

Sultana  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  one  and  one- 
Ji^lf  cups  of  sugar;  add  six  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five 
minutes  between  each  addition,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour 
sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  thick 
cream,  four  cups  of  Sultana  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  citron; 
mix  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  paper-lined  cake  tin  well  buttered. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  and  one-fourth  hours.  When  done, 
spread  with  transparent  icinor. 

NEW  CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE— 

2  OggS  (jrolks).  1  r.      /    I     . 

2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolat«     J  L"£      ^^  ^"8^*^- 
(two  ounces).       '  ^^^^"^^^    L1^^^"'P^"^"^«  «f  melted  butter 
'  ■  ii  tea-spoonful  of  salL  ' 


1  cupful  of  milk. 


i?s  cupful  ors:r"""' "''»'«'»*- 


CAKE.  71 

Spice  Cakk. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  add  two 
beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  with  two  tea- 
Bpoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  eup  each  of  seeded  raisins 
and  currants;  season  with  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Seed  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  of  a  cup.  of  butter,  and 

two  eggs;  add\)ne-half  cup  of  milk,  and  two  cups  flour  sifted  with 

two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of 

coriander  seed  and  season  with  nutmeg.     Bake  in  a  loaf  or  in 

patty  tins. 

TuNBRiDGE  Cake. 

Bake  a  plain  sponge  cake  in  a  cylinder-mould;  when  cold  cut  it 
in  thin  slices,  lay  the  bottom  piece  on  a  plate,  spread  over  any  kind 
of  fruit  jelly  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  any  kind  of  wine;  repeat 
this  until  all  the  cake  is  used;  prepare  a  meringue  paste  of  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff,  with  two  cups  of  sugar;  use  it  to 
entirely  cover  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake;  sift  sugar  plentifully 
over  it  and  place  it  in  an  oven  to  brown  just  a  fawn  color;  when 
ready  to  serve  slide  it  off  the  plate  into  a  glass  dish  and  pile  round 
it  one  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Flavor  with  any  extract  to  suit  the 
taste.     Nice  for  tea  or  for  dessert. 

Taylor  Cake. 

Seven  eggs  beaten  separately;  beat  with  the  yolks  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  butter  (less  butter  will  do) ; 
then  add  seven  coffeecups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of 
seeded  raisins,  three  nutmegs,  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  pint 
of  milk,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Weddixg  Cake. 
First  procure  the  following  ingr    .  .._.        ..^  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour,  the  same  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  candied  lemon,  half  a 


72  CAKE. 

pound  of  candied  orange,  half  a  pound  of  candied  citron,  one  pound 
of  dried  cherries,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  curranta  (or  if  the  cher- 
ries cannot  be  readily  obtained,  use  a  pound  more  of  currants), 
eight  ounces  of  almonds,  eight  eggs,  the  rind  of  four  oranges,  or  of  * 
two  lemons  rubbed  upon  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  spices,  consisting 
of  powdered  cinnamon,  grated  nutmeg,  and  ground  cloves  in  equal 
proportion,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  small  tumblerful  of  brandy 
(if  objected  to,  the  brandy  may  be  omitted  and  another  egg  added). 
Wash,  pick  and  dry  the 
currants,  cut  the  cherries 
into  moderate  sized  pie- 
ces, slice  the  candied  peel 
into  thin  shreds,  blanch 
and  pound  the   almonds, 
or  cut   them    into   very 
small  pieces,   and   crush 
the  flavored  sugar  to  pow- 
der.    Put  the  butter  into 
a  large  bowl,  and  beat  it 
to  cream,  either  with  a 
wooden  spoon  or  with  the 
hand.     Add  very  gradu-   ■ 
ally  the  sugar,  flour,  and 
eggs,  and  when  they  are 
thoroughly   mixed  work 
in  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.     Put  them  in  a  little  at  a  time  and 
beat  the  cake  between  each  addition.     It  should  be  beaten  fully 
three-fourths  of  an  hour.     Line  a  tin  hoop  with  double  thicknesses 
of  buttered  paper,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  place  it  on  a  metal 
baking-sheet  with  twelve  folds  of  paper  under  it,  and  four  or  five . 
on  top,  to  keep  it  from  burning.     Put  it  into  a  moderately  heated 
oven,  and  keep  the  oven  at  an  even  temperature  until  it  is  done 
enough.     If  the  cake  is  to  be  iced,  first  prepare  the  almond  part: 
Take  half  a  pound  of  dmoode,  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  and 


CAKE.  73 

'fikin  them.  Pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  few  drops  of  orange- 
flower  water,  one  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  as  much  white  of 
egg  as  will  make  a  soft,  stiff  paste.  Spread  this  over  the  top  of 
the  cake,  and  keep  it  from  the  edge  as  much  as  possible.  Put  it  in 
a  cool  oven  or  in  a  warm  place,  till  it  is  dry  and  hard.  To  make 
the  sugar  icing,  put  two  pounds  of  icing  sugar  into  a  bowl  and 
work  it  into  the  whites  of  two,  or  if  necessary,  three,  or  even  four, 
eggs.  The  whites  must  not  be  whisked,  but  thrown  in  as  they  are. 
Work  the  mixture  to  a  stiff,  shiny  paste,  and  whilst  working  it  add 
occasionally  a  drop  of  lemon-juice.  Be  careful  to  obtain*  idng 
sugar.  If  a  drop  of  liquid  blue  is  added  it  will  make  it  look  whiter. 
The  icing  will  need  to  be  worked  vigorously  to  make  a  paste  that 
will  not  run,  and  the  fewer  eggs  taken  the  better.  The  cake  ought 
not  to  be  iced  until  a  short  time  before  it  is  wanted,  as  it  may' get 
dirty.  The  icing  should  be  spread  evenly  over  with  the  hand 
wetted  with  cold  water,  then  smoothed  with  an  ivory  knife,  and  it 
should  be  put  into  a  gentle  oven  to  harden.  It  may  be  ornamented 
with  little  knobs  of  icing  placed  round  the  edge;  and  on  the  day  of 
the  wedding  a  wreath  of  white  flowers  and  green  leaves  may  be 
placed  round  it  by  way  of  ornament.  If  anything  more  elaborate 
18  required,  a  pretty  center  ornament  may  be  made  with  glazed 
white  card  board,  silver  paper,  and  orange  blossom;  or  a  stand  and 
«  drum,  with  artificial  fiowers,  may  be  hired  of  the  confectioner. 
Time  to  bake  the  cake,  about  six  hours. 

Wedding  Cake,  No  2. 

Six  cups  butter,  four  cups  sugar,  sixteen  eggs,  three  pints  flour, 
-six  cups  currants,  washed,  dried,  and  picked,,  three  cups  sultana 
raisins,  three  cups  citron,  two  cups  candied  lemon  peel,  two  cups 
almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  shreds,  one-half  pint  brandy,  two 
ounces  each  nutmeg,  mace,  and  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  es4ih 
cloves  and  allspice.     ' 

Prepare  all  these  ingredients  in  the  following  manner:  Place  the 
butter  and  sugar  in  a  large  bowl;  break  the  eggs  into  a  quart  mea- 
sure or  pitcher;   cover'  a  small  waiter  with  a  clean  sheet  of  paper. 


74  CAKE. 

and  on  it  lay  the  sifted  flour,  fruit,  citron,  and  lemon  peel  cut  into 
shreds,  the  almonds  and  spices,  with  the  brandy  measured  at  hand;, 
also  get  ready  a  large  cake  tin  by  papering  it  inside  with  white 
paper,  and  outside  and  bottom  with  four  or  five  thicknesses  of 
coarse  wrapping  paper,  which  can  be  tied  on. 

Having  thus  prepared  everything,  and  the  fire  banked  up  to  last, 
with  the  addition  from  time  to  time  of  just  a  shovelful  of  coal,  by 
which  means  you  will  not  reduce  the  oven  heat,  proceed  to  beat  to 
a  very  light  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  adding  the  eggs,  two  at  a 
time,  beating  a  little  between  each  addition  until  all  are  used;  then 
put  in  contents  of  the  waiter  all  at  once  with  the  brandy;  mix  very 
thoroughly,  and  smooth;  put  it  into  the  prepared  cake  tin,  smooth 
over  the  top,  put  plenty  of  paper  on  to  protect  it,  and  bake  eight 
hours,  keeping  the  oven  steadily  up  to  a  clear,  moderate  heat; 
watch  it  faithfully,  and  you  will  produce  a  cake  worthy  of  the  occa- 
sion; remove  from  the  oven  very  carefully,  and  suffer  it  to  stay  on 
the  tin  until  quite  cold;  the  next  day  ice  it  with  a  thin  coat  of 
White  Idng^  both  the  top  and  the  sides;  and  place  in  a  cool  oven 
to  dry  the  icing.  Now  spread  a  second  coat  of  icing,  which  will 
prevent  any  crumbs  or  fruit  being  mixed  up  with  the  icing  when 
you  are  icing  to  finish;  now  with  a  broad  knife  proceed,  when  the 
first  coat  is  dry,  to  ice  the  sides,  then  pour  the  icing  on  the  center- 
of  the  cake,  in  quantity  sufficient  to  reach  the  edges,  when  stop;, 
decorate  with  a  vase  of  white,  made  flowers,  etc.,  to  taste. 

Vanilla  Cakb. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  com  starch  sifted  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonf uls  extract 
of  vanilla. 

Washington  Caks. 

Three- fourths  pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of 
sugar  beaten  together;  add  four  beaten  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one 
and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow* 


R^ 


CAKE.  ^      7& 

der,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  seedless  raisins,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  currants,  one  glass  brandy;  spice  to  taste. 

Wine  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  two  cups  of 
sugar;  add  three  beaten  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon- 
fnl  baking  powder,  one  gill  of  wine;  mix  into  a  firm  batter  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     Frost. 

Webster  Cakes. 

Beat  together  thoroughly  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,, 
and  two  eggs;  add  five  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  seed- 
less raisins,  one  teaspoonf  ul  each  of  extract  of  bitter  almonds  and 
vanilla.     Bake  in  a  quick,  steady  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Watermelon  Cake. 

White  part:  Two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  each 
of  butter  and  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  one  table- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  and  the  whites  of  five  eggs;  flavor. 

Red  part;  One  cup  of  red  sugar  sand,  one-half  cup  of  butter,, 
two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonf  ul 
of  baking  powder,  whites  of  five  eggs,  and  one-half  pound  of  raisins. 

In  filling  the  cake  pan  put  the  white  part  outside  and  the  red  part 
inside;  drop  in  the  raisins  here  and  there  where  they  belong  for 
seeds. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs  well  whipped,  three  cups  of  pulverized 
tfngar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour 
with  one  teaspoonf  ul  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Yule  Cake. 

Rub  together  two  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  and  three  cups  of 
sugar;  add  ten  beaten  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoon- 


76    •  COOKIES,  JUMBLES  aAd  SNAPS. 

fuls  baking  powder,  four  cups  of  currants,  two-thirds  cup  of 
chopped  citron,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  extract  of  nutmeg  and 
cloves,  one  gill  brandy.  Bake  in  a  well-greased,  paper-lined  tin,  in 
a  moderate  oven,  two  and  one-half  hours. 

Cbullebs. 

One-half  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  and  three  eggs;  beat  up  the  eggs  and  add  the  sugar  and 
milk.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  a  little  hot  water; 
add  to  the  mixture,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  nutmeg 
grated  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh  ground  cinnamon.  Work  in 
as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  smooth  dough;  mix  thoroughly; 
dredge  the  board,  rolling-pin,  and  dough  with  flour;  roll  it  out  and 
out  it  in  rings  or  fingers  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Cbullbbs,  No.  2. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and 
lemon  juice,  or  extract  to  taste;  flour  sufficient  to  stiffen.  Cut  in 
strips  and  fry  in  lard. 

Cbullebs,  No.  3. 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  and  flour  to  roll  out  easily.  They  should  be  rolled  out  about 
one-half  inch  thick;  cut  with  a  jagging  iron  or  knife  in  strips  about 
one-half  inch  wide,  and  twist  so  as  to  form  cakes.  The  fat 
should  boil  up  as  the  cakes  are  put  in  and  they  should  be  constantly 
watched  while  frying.  When  brown  on  the  underside,  turn  them; 
when  brown  on  both  sides  they  are  sufficiently  done. 


COOKIES,  JUMBLES  AND  SNAPS.  TT 

COOKIES,  JUMBLES,  AND  SNAPS. 

Almond  Cookies. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  same  of  sugar,  one-and  one-f  onrth  ponnda 

of  flour  (or  half  com  starch),  one  good  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

two  eggs;  flavor  with  extract  of  almond,  and  mix  into  a  smooth 

dongh  to  roll  out  with  a  little  milk;  roll  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 

and  cut  in  any  shape;  wash  them  over,  when  cut,  with  a  little 

water  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds,  and  sift  over  a  little  fine 

Biugar. 

Almond  Cookies. 

Two  pounds  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
shelled  almonds,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  one 
lemon  grated;  mix  butter,  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  lemon,  cinnamon^ 
and  hot  water;  beat  the  whites,  take  three  parts,  mix  also  one-half 
of  the  almonds;  and  as  much  flour  as  it  will  hold;  roll  them,  and 
brush  with  the  whites  of  eggs.  Before  putting  in  the  almonds  and 
sugar,  almonds  must  be  scalded,  dried  and  cut  fine.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

CocoANUT  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  milk,  one  cocoanut,  and  flour  enough 
to  rolL 

Cookies. 

One  quart  flour  sifted,  three  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk;  mix  soft  and  roll;  flavor  with  any  extract. 

Cbeam  Cookies. 
Two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  extract  or  one-half  a 
nutmeg  grated;  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be 
rolled.     Delicious. 


78  COOKIES,  JU>IBLE8  AND  SNAPS. 

Cookies,  No.  2. 
One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard  or  butter,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  just  flour  enough  to  roll,  baking 
<iuickly.     Add   any   flavoring   you   wish.     No  eggs  are   required. 
These  are  very  nice  if  grated  or  prepared  coooanut  is  added. 

Cookies,  No.  3. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  four  cups  flour, 
three  tablespoonf uls  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Rub 
the  flour  and  butter  thoroughly  together,  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  beat  the  eggs  separately;  add  to  the  above,  with  a  little  nut- 
meg or  cinnamon,  or  any  seasoning  preferred.  Sift  in  the  flour  and 
baking  powder,  and  add  enough  flour  to  mold  and  roll  out.  These 
<jookie8  will  keep  fresh  two  weeks,  and  if  the  milk  is  left  out,  a 
month. 

Cookies,  No.  4. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  white  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  lard, 
half  cup  of  butter,  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  water,  one  teaspoonful 
«oda,  a  half  grated  nutmeg;  roll  thin;  dust  over  with  sugar  and  roll 
down  lightly.     Bake  quickly. 

Egoless  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter,  one-half 
teaspoonful  soda.  Flour  enough  to  roll.  Use  vanilla,  lemon  or 
nutmeg  for  seasoning.     They  are  very  nice. 

Ginger  Cookies. 
One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  shortening,  two  beaten 
^E^y  ^^^  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  four  tablespoonf  uls  of  but- 
termilk, one  tablespoonful   ginger.     Stir  with  a  spoon  until  stiff 
enough  to  mold  with  the  hand;  roll  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Cookies. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  soda;  mix  quickly,  roll  and  bake.    The$e  require  less  heat  and 
more  time  in  baking  than  when  white  flour  is  used. 


C0QB3BS,  JUMBLES  AND  SNAPS.  79 

Molasses  Cookies. 

■ 

Three  caps  of  Kew  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  lard,  a  half  cup 
butter,  four  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  ten  tablespoonfuls  boil- 
ing water;  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

StTGAB  Cookies. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two 
>eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  a 
tablespoonf ul  caraway  seeds.     Mix  soft  and  roll. 

HiOKOBY-NUT  Cookies. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  or  a  little  more  than  a  third  of  a  cup, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
•one  cup  of  chopped  meats  stirred  into  the  dough. 

Sand  Tabts. 

Rub  together  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  and 
a  quarter  pounds  of  butter  beaten  with  three  eggs;  mix  smooth  and 
roll  out  and  cut  into  cakes.  Place  hickory-nut  or  almond  meats 
K)ver  the  top.  Wet  over  with  the  whole  of  an  egg  beaten,  and 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  fine  sugar. 

Jumbles. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three 
tablespoonfuls  sour  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  saleratus,  flour  to 
mix  hard.  After  it  is  kneaded  and  rolled  out,  sift  sugar  over  the 
top.     Season  if  you  like. 

Jumbles,  No.  2. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  five  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

OiNOBB  Snaps. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  egg. 


80  COOKIES,  JUMBLES  AND  SNAPS. 

GiNGBB  Snaps,  No.  2. 

One  cap  molasses,  one-half  cup  lard,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  salt 
and  ginger  to  taste;  mix  hard. 

61N6BB  Snaps,  No.  3. 

One  coffeecup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar;  place  them  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  take 
off  immediately,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  ginger.     Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonf uls  melted 
lard,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt,, 
seasoning  to  the  taste;  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  to  roll  out;  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

Doughnuts  WrrHour  Eggs. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar,, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Scald  the  milk,  and  when 
tepid  add  the  sugar,  the  butter,  a  half  cup  of  yeast,  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Pour  this  all  into  the  center  of  the  flour,  using 
enough  of  flour  to  make  a  sponge.  Let  it  rise  all  night  in  a  warm 
place.  In  the  morning  sprinkle  in  whatever  spice  you  want;  then 
knead  in  the  rest  of  the  flour;  let  it  ris^  again  until  light;  knead 
again  and  roll  them.  After  they  are  cut  out  kt  them  stand  five- 
minutes.     Pry  in  boiling  lard. 

Doughnuts,  Raised. 

Make  a  sponge,  using  one  quart  water  and  one  cake  yeast;  let  it 
rise  until  very  light,-  then  add  one  cup  of  lard,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
three  large  mashed  potatoes,  two  eggs,  season  with  nutmeg;  let  rise 
again  until  very  light.  Roll  and  cut,  or  pull  off  bits  of  dough  and 
shape  as  you  like;  lay  enough  to  fry  at  one  time  on  a  floured  plate 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  warm;  drop  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  longer- 
than  cakes,  made  with  baking  powder. 


cookies;  jumbles  and  snaps.  81 

Cbsah  Doughnuts. 

Beat  one  cup  each  of  sour  cream  and  sugar,  and  two  eggs, 
together;  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda^  a  little  salt,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll. 

8^en  tablespoonfuls'of  sugar,  ^5""5^J*^^®®P^^'^^^®  of  melted 
j^|^4hn^|l^l^^Haiirfiii^«^  melted  butter,  t^ee  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonf uls  of  cream  of  tartar; 
flour  enough  to  roll  out  soft.     Roll  in  pulverized  sugar  when  half  . 

cold.    3vs^—  ^^^  ^    '^i^  4^  ^^'^  ^^ Ai.  z.  s  ^n'thp 

^  Snow  Balls,  White. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  six  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  ^ 

soda,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  middling 
soft  and  roll  out,  and  cut  with  a  small  round  cutter.  Your  tea 
canister  top  may  be  just  the  right  size.  Fry  ir  hot  lard.  Have 
ready  a  pmall  bowl  with  a  little  fine  white  sugar  in  it.  As  you 
take  them  from  the  lard  drop  them  in  the  sugvT  and  roll  around  • 
quickly  until  the  surface  has  a  very  thin  coat  of  Bugar  all  over  it, 
then  lay  carefully  on  a  plate.  Repeat  with  eac>  cake  separately, 
adding  a  little  fresh  sugar  occasionally. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

CREAMS   AND    CUSTARDS. 

Apple  Show. 
welve  tart  apples  in  cold  water  over  a  alow  dre;  whea 
t  skin  and  core.  Mix  in  a  pint  o{  sifted  white  sugar,  beat 
whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  to  the 
1  sngar.  Put  in  a  dessert  dish  and  omameBt  with  myrtle, 
found  much  better  if  frozen. 

Ai^OMD  Cbeak. 
iiree  ounces  of  sweet  and  one  ounce  of  bitter  almanda, 
;m;  pnt  them  in  a  pan  over  the  fire,  stirring  them  con- 

Afl  soon  as  they  have  acquired  a  fine  yellow  color,  take 
he  fire,  and  when  cold  pound  them  into  fine  pieces;  then 
;  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  nearly  boiling,  and  three  or  four 
Lblespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one-half  package  of  gelatine 

been  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Put  it  upon  the  ice,  and 
it  to  thicken  stir  it  until  it  is  very  smoutb,  then  stir  in 
)int  of  whipped  cream  and  pat  it  into  a  mold. 

Apple  Float. 
[>  of  pulvenEed  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff 
eggs  beaten  light,  one  lemon,  four  large  apples  grated, 
^spoonfuls  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  warm  water.    Fills  one 
1. 

Bavaboisb. 
t  of  milk;  add  fonr  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  coffee;  cook 
mixed,  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag;   add  the  beaten 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  8S 

yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  as  for  a  castard;  set  in 
a  cold  place,  and  when  cool  add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  in  which 
has  been  stirred  one-third  of  a  box  of  dissolved  gelatine,  and  stand 
in  a  cool  place  until  it  thickens. 

Blanc  Mange. 

Take  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  and  one-half  ounce  of  bitter 
almonds,  blanched;  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  moistening  them  occa- 
sionally with  orange-flower  water;  mix  this  with  one  quart  of  fresh 
cream;  set  the  cream  and  almonds  on  the  fire,  stirring  constantly; 
when  it  comes  to  a  scald  pour  in  one-half  box  of  gelatine  which  has 
been  previously  dissolved  by  soaking  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water 
one  hour. 

Cbeam  a  la  Mods. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  into  a  deep  glass  dish;  the  juice 
of  one  large  orange  and  one  lemon;  to  one  ounce  of  isinglass  or 
gelatine  add  one  pint  of  water;  let  it  sinmier  down  one-half,  and 
when  cool  strain  it  into  the  glass  dish,  and  by  degrees  add  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  whipped  cream;  stir  till  cool,  and  place  it  on  ice  to 
stifEen. 

CoFFBE  Cbeam. 

Sweeten  one  pint  of  rich  cream  rather  liberally;  roast  two  ounces 
of  coffee  kernels;*  when  they  are  lightly  browned  throw  them  into 
the  cream  at  once,  and  let  the  dish  stand  an  hour  before  using; 
strain,  and  whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  A  teaspoonf ul  of  pow- 
dered gum  arabic  dissolved  in  a  little  orange-flower  water,  may  be 
added  to  give  the  cream  more  firmness,  if  desired. 

Bavabian  Cbeam. 

Whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  set  in  a  colander 
one  minute  to  allow  the  unwhipped  portion  to  drip  away;  boil  one 
pint  of  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla^  and  add 
one-half  package  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  water,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  cool;  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  When 
the  mixture  has  become  quitQ  cold  add  the  whipped  cream  gradually 


1 


84  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

until  it  is  well  mixed;  put  into  individual  molds  a  teaspoonful  of 
some  bright  jelly  or  jam,  then  pour  the  mixture  and  place  in  an 
ice-chest  until  wanted.  This  cream  may  be  flavored  in  any  way 
desired. 

Chocolatb  Bavarian  Cream 

Can  be  made  as  the  preceding  by  adding  two  cakes  of  sweet 
chocolate,  soaked  and  stirred  smooth  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water, 
to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

Caledonian  Cream. 

Two  ounces  of  raspberry  jam  or  jelly,  two  ounces  of  red  currant 
jelly,  two  ounces  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  put 
into  a  bowl  and  beaten  with  a  spoon  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
This  makes  a  very  pretty  cream,  and  is  good  and  economical. 

Charlotte  Russe  Elegante. 

One-half  package  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  very  little  water;- 
one   quart   of  whipped   cream,  flavored  and   sweetened  to  taste. 
Line  a  mold  with  sponge   or  white  cake;   stir  the  gelatine  into 
the  cream  and  pour  into  the  prepared  mold.     The  cake  may  b^ 
soaked  in  a  little  wine  if  preferred. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

One  pint  of  cream  well  whipped;  beat  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
mth*  the  yolks  of  four  eggs;  simmer  together  one-half  pint  of  milk' 
and  onerhalf  ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine  till  the  gelatine  is  dis- 
solved, then  mix  with  the  beaten  yolks  and  the  sugar^  then  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  whipped  cream;  flavor 
with  one  gill  of  wine  and  set  it  aside  to  cool;  pour  it  into  a  mold 
which  was  previously  lined  with  pieces  of  sponge  cake.  When  it  is- 
stiff  and  solid  turn  out  into  a  dish  and  sift  sugar  over  the  top. 

Charlotte  Russe,  No.  2. 

One  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  milk  one-half  hour;  while  it  is 
soaking  make  a  soft  custard  with  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  one  pint 
of  milk,  and  one-half  pound  of  crushed  sugar.     When  the  custard 


0 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  86 

begins  to  boil  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  it  will  dissolve;  when  dis- 
solved, strain  the  custard  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  gill  of  cold 
cream;  then  let  it  cool  a  little,  but  not  enough  to  thicken;  whip  a 
good  quart  of  thick  cream,  add  vanilla  or  any  flavoring  to  suit  the 
taste,  add  this  to  the  custard,  set  it  in  the  ice  chest  and  stir  occa- 
sionally until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the 
seven  eggs  to  a  froth,  adding  two  tablespoonf uls  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  stir  into  the  custard  and  cream,  stirring  occasionally 
very  gently  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  turn  into  the  molds  which 
have  been  lined  with  sponge  fingers  or  slices.  Set  them  back  io, 
the  ice  chest. 

Fbuit  Chablotte. 

Line  a  dish  with  sponge  cake;  place  upon  the  bottom,  in  tho 
centre  of  the  dish,  grated  pine-apple;  cover  with  a  whipped  cream 
blanc  mange.  Keep  .back  a  little  of  the  cream  to  pour  over  the  top 
after  it  is  poured  out  of  the  mold. 

Genoesb  Cbeam. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar.  Boil  until  it  thickens;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  sponge  cake,  spreading  one  side 
of  the  cake  with  currant  or  other  jelly.  Pour  on  the  cream .  and 
dust  the  top  with  sugar. 

Italian  Cbbam. 

Put  one  ounce  of  soaked  isinglass,  six  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  milk,  into  a  sauce  pan;  boil  slowly  and  stir  all  the  time 
until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved;  strain  the  mixture,  and,  when  cool, 
mix  it  with  a  pint  of  thick  cream;  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  extract  of  bitter  almond,  and  one  gill  of  rose  water.  Beat 
thoroughly  until  it  thickens;  pour  into  a  large  or  into  individual 
molds  and  put  into  an  ice  box  until  wanted. 


86  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDa 

Maktoca  Cream, 

Three  tableapoonf  uls  of  manioca^  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs^ 
vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste;  soak  the  manioca  in  water  till  soft;  boil 
the  milk;  while  boiling  stir  in  the  manioca  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten  with  the  sugar;  when  cooked  sufficiently  pour  into  a 
dish  to  cool;  when  cold,  add  the  vanilla;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  until  stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor  them  and  stir  part  into  the 
cream,  putting  the  rest  on  top. 

BUSSE   CSEAM. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  little  water  one  hour,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  four  eggs.  Mix  sugar,  milk, 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  gelatine  together;  put  in  a  pail,  set  in  a  kettle 
of  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
stiff,  and  stir  into  the  custard  after  taking  off  the  fire.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  pour  into  molds.  Serve  with  sug&r  and  cream  or  with 
custard. 

Rock  Cream: 

Boil  rice  until  quite  soft  in  new  milk,  sweeten  with  powdered 
loaf  sugar.  Pile  it  in  a  dish  and  lay  on  it  in  different  places  lumps 
of  currant  jelly,  or  any  kind  of  preserves;  beat  the  whites  of  five 
^ggs  ^  &  stiff  froth;  add  flavoring  and  a  tablespoonful  of  thick 
cream;  drop  it  over  the  rice  forming  a  rock  of  cream. 

Spanish  Cream. 

Make  a  soft  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
six  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar.  Put  one  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in 
one  pint  of  water  over  the  fire;  add  the  custard;  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Strain  into  molds  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  for  eight  hours  in  milk  enough  to 
cover;  then  take  one  quart  of  milk,  place  on  the  stove,  and  when  it 
boils  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  tapioca;  let  it  boil  up. 


w 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  87 

then  stir  the  beaten  whites  very  thoroughly  through  it.     Sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste.     Eat  cold. 

Whipped  Cbbam. 

To  one  quart  very  thick  whipped  cream,  add  powdered  sugar  to 
t-aste  and  a  glass  of  wine.     Make  just  before  ready  to  usd. 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

Mix  a  plateful  of  whipped  cream  (flavored  with  vanilla),  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  pulverized  sugar  to  taste,  all  together; 
pile  a  t)ank  of  this  mixture  in  the  center  of  a  platter  and  form  a 
circle  of  little  fruit  puddings  (steamed  in  cups)  around  it,  or  it  is 
nice  for  com  starch,  blanc  manges,  etc. 

Single  cream  is  cream  that  has  stood  on  the  milk  twelve  hours. 
It  is  the  best  for  tea  and  coffee.  Double  cream  stands  on  its  milk 
twenty-four  hours,  and  cream  for  butter  frequently  stands  forty- 
eight  hours.  Cream  that  is  to  be  whipped  should  not  be  butter 
cream,  lest  in  whipping  it  change  to  butter. 

Almond  Custard. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one-quarter 
"Dound  of  almonds  (blanched  and  pounded),  two  teaspoonfuls  rose 
water,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs;  stir  this  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  is 
of  the  consistency  of  cream,  then  remove  it  quickly  and  put  into  a 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  with  a  little  sugar  added  to  the  froth,  and 
lay  on  top. 

Apple  Custard. 

One  pint  of  mashed  stewed  apples,  one  pint  of  stv^eet  milk,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg.     Bake  slowly. 

Boiled  Custard. 

Allow  five  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to 
each  egg,  set  the  milk  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  it  scalds; 
then,  after  dipping  a  little  of  the  milk  on  to  the  eggs  and  beating 
up,  turn  into  the  scalded  milk,  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Flavor 
to  taste. 


88  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

Baked  Custabd. 

One  qaart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  and  flavor  to 
taste,  boil  the  milk;  when  cool,  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  sngar, 
pour  into  cups,  set  them  in  pans  of  water,  and  bake;  if  baked  too 
long,  will  become  watery.  • 

Chocolate  Custabd. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  with  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  six  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  grated  vanilla 
chocolate.  Boil  until  thick  enough,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
nearly  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  cups,  and  put  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  with  some  powdered  sugar  on  the  top. 

Coffee  Custard. 

One-half  pint  of  rich  cream,  one-half  cup  cold  coffee,  four  eggs, 
sugar  to  taste. 

CoEN  Starch  Custard. 

Most  persons  know  how  to  make  a  corn  starch  custard.  A  rich 
one  can  be  made  as  follows:  One  quart  of  milk  with  five  beaten 
eggs  in  it;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  choice,  adding  one-fourth  pound 
of  com  starch;  place  over  the  fire,  stirring  quickly  to  avoid  burn- 
ing to  the  bottom,  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Or,  can  take  less  egg 
by  using  more  com  starch,  as  follows:  One  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
sugar  and  flavor  to  taste,  one-half  pound  of  com  starch.  If  this  is 
too  much  starch  and  it  becomes  too  thick,  take  it  off  the  fire,  add  a 
a  little  milk,  stirring  till  smooth.  A  custard  is  best  made  in  a 
vessel  placed  in  boiling  water,  as  there  is  no  risk  of  burning. 
Custards  require  to  be  stiff er  for  filling  cream  puffs,  chocolate  eclares, 
charlotte  russes,  etc.  The  above  receipts  are  thick  enough  for  any 
of  the  purposes,  and,  if  required  for  simple  custard,  less  starch 
will  do. 

CocoANUT  Custard. 

To  one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  allow  one  pint  of  scalding 
milk  and  six  ounces  of  sugar.     Beat  well  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and 


CREAMS  A2ro  CUSTARDa  89 

«tir  them  alternately  into  the  milk  with  the  oocoanut  and  sugar. 
Pour  this  into  a  dish  lined  with  paste  and  bake  twenty  minutes;  or, 
if  pref erredy  treat  the  milk,  cocoanut,  egg^y  and  sugar  as  for  boiled 
custard,  and  serve  in  cups. 

Cold  Cup  Custabd. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  one  pint  of  cream,  one-fourth  pound  of 
fine  white  sugar,  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  wine,  in  which 
rennet  has  been  soaked.  Mix  the  milk,  cream  and  sugar  together, 
stir  the  wine  into  it,  pour  the  mixture  into  custard  cups,  and  set 
them  away  until  the  milk  becomes  a  curd.  Orate  nutmeg  on  top 
and  eat  them  with  cream  that  has  been  kept  on  ice. 

Caramel  Cttstabd. 

Put  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  crushed  sugar  into  a  tin  pan;  let  it 
stand  on  the  stove  till  it  begins  to  brown,  then  stir  constantly  till  it 
is  a  thick,  black  syrup.  Pour  it  into  a  quart  of  scalding  milk;  add 
six  ounces  of  white  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Beat  and 
pour  into  cups,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  and  bake 
twenty  minutes. 

Lemon  Custabd. 

Four  eggs  (leave  out  the  white  of  one),  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  cold  water,  one  grated  lemon,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  com  starch;  bake  as  custard;  after  it  is  baked,  cover  it 
with  the  beaten  white  and  pulverized  sugar;  return  to  the  oven; 
bake  a  light  brown. 

Moonshine. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  into  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  add  grad- 
ually six  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  for  not  less 
than  fifteen  minutes;  then  beat  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
preserved  peaches  cut  in  tiny  bits.  In  serving,  pour  in  each  saucer 
some  rich  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  on  the 
cream  place  a  liberal  portion  of  the  moonshine.  This  quantity  is 
enough  for  seven  or  eight  persons. 


90  CREAMB  A2n>  CUSTARDa 

Floating  Island. 
Set  a  qnart  of  milk  to  boil,  then  stir  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of 
mx  eggs;  flavor  with  any  extract  liked  and  sweeten  to  taste;  whip 
whites  of  eg^  to  a  stifE  froth.  When  the  cnstard  is  thick,  put 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  heap  the  frothed  eggs  upon  it.  Place  pieces 
of  onrrant  jelly  on  top  and  serve  cold. 

Floatdio  Islakd,  No.  2. 

Into  three^narters  of  a  pint  of  cream,  put  sugar  to  make  it  very 

sweet,  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  grated.     Beat  it  for  ten 

minutes.     Cut  French  rolls  into 

thin  slices,  and  lay  them   on   a 

round  dish   on  the  top   of    the 

oream.     On  this  put  a  layer  of 

apricot  or  currant  jam,  and  some 

more  slices  of  roll     Pile  upon 

this,  very  high,  a  whip  made  of 

damson  jam,  and  the  whites  of 

four  eggs.     It  should  be  rough  to  imitate  a  rock.     Garnish  with 

fruits  or  sweetmeats. 

Irish  Mobs. 
Soak  a  scant  handful  of  Irish  moss  in  strong  soda  water  until  it 
swells;  then  squeeze  the  moss  until  it  is  free  from  water,  and  put  it 
in  a  tin  bucket  which  contains  six  pints  of  sweet  milk.    Set  the 
bucket  in  a  large  iron  pot  which  holds  several  pints  of  hot  water; 
stir  seldom,  and  let  it  remain  until  it  will  jell  slightly  by  dropping 
on  a  cold  plate.     Strain  through   a  sieve,  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste.     Rinse  a  mold  or  a  crock  with  tepid  water;  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  set  it  away  to  cool.     In  a  few  hours  it  will  be  palatable. 
Eat  with  oream  and  sugar— some  add  jelly. 
QriAEim)  CtTSTUED. 
Three  cups  of  milk;  yolks  of  four  eg^,  reserving  the  whites  for 
the  meringue  ;  one-half  package  gelatine;    six  tablespoonfnls  of 
sugar;  vanilla  flavoring;  juice  of  one  lemon  for  meringue.     Soak 


r^- 


CREAM8  AND  CUSTARDS. 


91 


the  gelatine  two  hours  in  a  cup  of  the  cold  milk.  Then  add 
to  the  rest  of  the  milk,  which  must  be  boiling  hot,  and  stir  until 
dissolved.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  strain  through  muslin 
over  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir  five 
minutes,  or  until  you  can  feel  it  thickening.  Stir  up  well  when 
nearly  cold,  flavor,  and  let  it  alone  until  it  congeals  arotmd  the 
edges  of  the  bowl  into  which  you  have  poured  it;  then  stir  again, 
and  put  into  a  wet  mold.  Set  upon  ice,  or  in  cold  water  until  firm. 
Turn  it,  when  you  are  ready  for  it,  into  a  glass  bowl.  Have  a 
meringue  made  by  whipping  the  whites  stiff  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  lemon  juice. 

Obange  Snow. 

Peel  sweet  oranges,  slice  and  lay  them  in  a  glass  dish  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  grated  cocoanut  and  powdered  loaf  sugar,  leaving  a 
layer  of  cocoanut  on  top.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  glass  of  orange 
and  lemon  juice  mixed.    Place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve* 


CHAPTER  V. 

CONFECTIONERY. 

GbNEBAL  DlBBCnOKS. 

^RANULATED  sugar  is  preferable.  Candy  should  not  be 
stirred  while  boiling.  Cream  of  tartar  should  not  be  added 
until  the  syrup  begins  to  boiL  Butter  should  be  put  in  when 
the  candy  is  almost  done,  flavors  are  more  delicate  when  not 
boiled  in  the  candy. 

Almoitd  Cakdy. 

Proceed  in  the  same  way  as  for  cocoanut  candy.  Let  the  almonds 
be  perfectly  dry  and  do  not  throw  them  into  the  sugar  until  it 
approaches  the  candying  point. 

Almond  Crbams. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  one-half 
teaspoonf  ul  of  cream  of  tartar,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  until  drops 
will  almost  keep  their  shape  in  water,  and  add  a  cup  of  blanched 
almonds  chopped  fine,  then  pour  into  a  bowl  set  in  cold  water;  stir 
steadily  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  until  cool  enough  to  bear 
the  hand;  then  place  on  a  platter  and  knead  to  a  fine  even  texture. 
If  too  hard,  a  few  drops  of  warm  water  may  be  stirred  in.  If  too 
soft,  it  must  be  boiled  again.  When  well  molded,  cut  in  squares 
or  bars.    Almond  cream  is  very  nice  flavored  with  chocolate. 

BoN  Boirs. 

Take  some  fine  fresh  candied  orange  rind  or  citron,  clear  off  the 
sugar  that  adheres  to  it,  cut  it  into  inch  squares,  stick  these  singly 
on  the  prong  of  a  fork  or  ozier  twigs,  and  dip  them  into  a  solution 
of  sugar  boiled  to  the  consistency  of  candy,  and  place  them  on  a 

98 


CONFECTIONERY:  93 

dish  rubbed  with  the  smallest  possible  quantity  of  salad  oil.    When 
perfectly  cold  put  them  into  dry  tin  boxes  with  paper  between  each 

layer. 

BuTTBB  Scotch. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter* 

Boil  until  done. 

Boston  Cabamsls. 

One  pint  bowl  of  grated  chocolate,  two  bowls  of  yellow  sugar^ 
one  bowl  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  and  vanilla  flavor;  boil  about 
twenty-five  minutes;  this  should  not  be  so  brittle  as  other  candies. 
Pour  in  buttered  tins  and  mark  deeply  with  a  knife. 

Gbeam  Cocoanut  Candy. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk;  boil  ten 
minutes;  one  grated  cocoanut  added;  boil  until  thick;  put  on 
greased  pans  quite  thick;  when  partially  cold  cut  in  strips. 

Cocoanut  Cabamels. 

Two  cups  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff;  bake  on  a  but- 
tered paper  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

Four  cups  of  water,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  fine  white  sugar,  four 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg;  boil  till 
thick  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Just  before  removing  stir 
in  one  cup  desiccated  cocoanut  and  lay  in  small  flat  cakes  on  but- 
tered  plates  to  cool  and  harden. 

Chocolate  Cabakels. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  sugar» 
half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
stir  constantly,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  thick;  then  turn  it  out  on 
to  buttered  plates,  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen  mark  it  in  squares, 
go  that  it  will  break  readily  when  cold. 


94  CONFECTIONERY. 

Choooulte  Cbeam  Dbops. 

Mix  one-lialf  cap  of  cream  with  two  of  white  sugar^  boil  and  Btir 
fall  five  minutes:  set  the  dish  into  another  of  cold  water  and  stir 
until  it  becomes  hard.  Then  make  into  small  balls  about  the  size 
of  marbles,  and  with  a  fork  roll  each  one  separately  in  the  choco- 
latCy  which  has  in  the  meantime  been  put  in  a  bowl  over  the 
boiling  tea  kettle  and  melted;  put  on  brown  paper  to  cool;  flavor 
with  vanilla  if  desired.    This  amount  makes  about  fifty  drops. 

Chocolate  Kisses. 

One  pound  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  chocolate  pounded  together 
and  finely  sifted;  mix  with  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  to  a 
.  froth;  drop  on  buttered  paper  and  bake  slowly. 

FRirrr  Candy. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  wet  with  the  milk 
of  a  cocoanut;  put  into  a  sauce-pan  and  let  it  heat  slowly;  boil 
rapidly  five  minutes,  then  add  one  cocoanut  grated  very  fine,  and 
bq^  ten  minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly.  Try  a  little  on  a  cold 
plate,  and  if  it  forms  a  firm  paste  when  cool,  take  from  the  fire. 
Pour  part  of  it  out  on  to  a  large  tin  lined  with  greased  paper;  then 
add  to  the  remaining  cream  one-fourth  pound  of  stoned  raisins, 
one-half  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one  pint  of  pecans,  one-half 
cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Pour  over  the  other  cream,  and  when 
cool  cut  into  bars  and  squares. 

■ 

HicKOET-NUT  Candy. 

Boil  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  without  stirrings 
until  thick  enough  to  spin  a  thread;  flavor;  set  the  dish  ofi^  into 
cold  water;  stir  quickly  until  white,  then  stir  in  one  cup  of  hicko- 
ry-nut meats;  turn  into  a  flat  tin,  and  when  cool  cut  into  squares. 

HoBBHOUND  Candy. 

Prepare  a  strong  decoction,  by  boiling  two  ounces  of  the  dried 
herb  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  for  about  half  an  hour;   strain 


CONFECTIONERY.  96 

this,  and  add  three  and  one-half  poands  of  brown  sugar;  boil  over 
a  hot  fire  until  it  reaches  the  requisite  degree  of  hardness,  when  it 
may  be  poured  out  in  flat  tin  trays,  previously  well  greased,  and 
marked  into  sticks  or  squares  with  a  knife,  as  it  becomes  cool 
enough  to  retain  its  shape. 

Lemon-Cbsam  Candy. 

Six  pounds  best  white  sugar,  strained  juice  of  two  lemons,  grated 
peel  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  soda,  three  cups  clear  water. 
Steep  the  grated  peel  of  the  lemon  in  the  juice  for  an  hour;  strain, 
squeezing  the  cloth  hard  to  get  out  all  the  strength.  Pour  the 
water  over  the  sugar,  and,  when  nearly  dissolved,  set  it  over  the 
fire  and  bring  to  a  boiL  Stew  steadily  until  it  hardens  in  cold 
water;  stir  in  the  lemon;  boil  one  minute;  add  the  dry  soda^ 
stirring  in  well;  and,  instantly,  turn  out  upon  broad,  shallow  dishes. 
Pull  as  soon  as  you  can  handle  it,  into  long  white  ropes,  and  cut 
into  lengths  when  brittle. 

YaniUa  cream  candy  is  made  in  the  same  way,  with  the  substitu- 
tion of  vanilla  flavoring  for  the  lemon-juice  and  peel,   s 

Lemon  and  Peppermint  Drops. 
Take  of  dry  granulated  sugar  a  convenient  quantity;  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  having  a  lip  from  which  the  contents  may  be  poured  or 
dropped.  Add  a  very  little  water,  just  enough  to  make,  with  the 
sugar,  a  stiff  paste;  two  ounces  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar  is 
about  the  right  proportion.  Set  it  over  the  fire  and  allow  it  to 
nearly  boil,  keeping  it  continually  stirred.  It  must  not  actually 
come  to  a  full  boil,  but  muA  be  removed  from  the  fire  just  as  soon 
as  the  bubbles,  denoting  that  the  boiling  point  is  reached,  begin  to 
rise.  Allow  the  syrup  to  cool  a  little,  stirring  all  the  time;  add 
strong  essence  of  peppermint  or  lemon  to  suit  the  taste,  and  drop 
on  tins  or  sheets  of  smooth  white  paper.  The  dropping  is  per- 
formed by  tilting  the  vessel  slightly,  so  that  the  contents  will  run 
out,  and  with  a  small  piece  of  stiff  wire  the  drops  may  be  stroked 
-off  on  to  the  tins  or  paper.     They  should  be  kept  in  a  warm  place 


I 

\ 


96  CONFECTIONERY. 

for  a  few  hours  to  dry.  In  the  season  of  fruits,  delicious  drops 
may  be  made  by  substituting  the  juice  of  fresh  fruits,  as  straw- 
berry, raspberry,  lemon,  pineapple  or  banana,  or  any  of  these^ 
essences  may  be  used. 

MOLASSBS   CaNDT. 

Into  a  kettle  holding  at  least  four  times  the  amount  of  molasses 
to  be  used,  pour  a  convenient  quantity  of  Porto  Rico  molasses; 
place  over  a  slow  fire  and  boil  for  a  half  hour,  stirring  all  the  time 
to  diminish  as  much  as  possible  the  increase  of  bulk  caused  by  boil- 
ing, and  checking  the  fire  or  removing  the  kettle  if  there  is  any 
danger  of  the  contents  running  over.  Be  very  careful  not  to  let 
the  candy  burn,  especially  near  the  close  of  the  boiling.  When  a 
little,  dropped  in  cold  water,  becomes  quickly  hard  and  snaps  apart 
like  a  pipestem,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  free  from 
lumps,  to  every  two  quarts;  stir  quickly  to  mix,  and  pour  on  greased 
platters  to  cool.  When  the  candy  is  sufficiently  cool  to  handle 
without  burning  the  hands,  it  is  pulled  back  and  forth,  the  hands- 
being  rubbed  with  a  little  butter  (do  not  use  flour)  to  prevent  the 
candy  from  sticking  to  them.  The  more  the  candy  is  worked,  the* 
lighter  it  will  be  in  color. 

White  Molasses  Candy. 

Take  two  pounds  of  refined  sugar  (termed  by  grocers  "  Coffee 
C ''),  one  pint  of  pure  sugar-house  syrup,  and  one  pint  best  Porta 
Rico  or  New  Orleans  molasses.  Boil  together  until  it  hardens,  a& 
above  described,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and 
work  in  the  usual  manner. 

Peanut  Candy. 

One  scant  pint  of  molasses,  four  quarts  of  peanuts,  measured 
before  they  are  shelled,  two  tablespoon  fuls  of  vanilla,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.  Boil  the  molasses  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  when 
dropped  from  the  spoon.  Stir  in  the  vanilla,  then  the  soda,  dry. 
Lastly,  the  shelled  peanuts.  Turn  out  into  shallow  pans  well 
buttered,  and  press  it  down  smooth  with  a  wooden  spoon. 


CONFECTIONERY.  97 

We  can  heartily  recommend  the  candy  made  according  to  this 
receipt  as  being  unrivaled  of  its  kind. 

The  molasses  should  be  good  in  quality,  and  the  peanuts  freshly 
roasted. 

Pop-CoBN  Balls. 

Add  one  ounce  of  white  gum  arabic  to  a  half  pint  of  water,  and 
let  it  stand  until  dissolved.  Strain,  add  one  pound  of  refined  sugar 
and  boil  until  when  cooled  it  becomes  very  thick,  so  much  so  as 
to  be  stirred  with  difficulty.  To  ascertain  when  it  has  reached  this 
point,  a  little  may  be  cooled  in  a  saucer.  A  convenient  quantity  of 
the  freshly  popped  com  having  been  placed  in  a  milk  pan,  enough, 
of  the  warm  syrupy  candy  is  poured  on  and  mixed  by  stirring,  to 
cause  the  kernels  to  adhere  in  a  mass,  portions  of  which  may  be 
formed  into  balls  by  pressing  them  into  the  proper  shape  with  the 
hands*  Ordinary  molasses,  or  sugar-house  syrup  may  be  used  as 
well,  by  being  boiled  to  the  same  degree,  no  gum  being  necessary 
with  these  materials.  Com  cake  is  prepared  in  a  similar  manner. 
This  mass,  while  warm,  is  put  into  tins  and  pressed  by  rollers  into 
thin  sheets,  which  are  afterwards  divided  into  small,  square  cakes. 

Taffy. 

Either  of  the  two  kinds  of  molasses  candy,  if  poured  from  the 
kettle  into  tin  trays  without  working,  will  produce  a  fine  plain 
taffy.  It  may  be  left  in  one  sheet  the  size  of  the  tray,  or,  when 
slightly  cold,  may  be  marked  off  in  squares. 

Efferton  Taffy. 

This  is  a  favorite  English  confection.  To  make  it  take  three 
pounds  of  the  beeft  brown  sugar  and  boil  with  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  water,  until  the  candy  hardens  in  cold  water.  Then  add 
one-half  pound  of  sweet-flavored,  fresh  butter,  which  will  soften 
the  candy.  Boil  a  few  minutes  until  it  again  hardens  and  pour  it 
into  trays.     Flavor  with  lemon  if  desired. 

T 


98  CONFECTIONERY. 

YmsGAB  Candy. 

Three  cups  white  sugar;  one  and  one-half  oups  clear  vinegar;  stir 

the  sugar  into  the  vinegar  until  thoroughly  dissolved;  heat  to  a 

gentle  boil,  and  stew  uncovered  until  it  ropes  from  the  tip  of  the 

spoon.     Turn  out  upon  broad  dishes,  well  buttered,  and  cool,  and, 

as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  pull.     It  can  be  pulled  beautifully 

white  and  porous. 

Vinegar  Candy,  No.  2. 

To  one  quart  of  good  New  Orleans  molasses,  add  one   cup  of 

good  cider  vinegar;  boil  until  it  reaches  the  point  where  a  little 

dropped  into  cold  water  becomes  very  hard  and  brittle.     Pour  into 

shallow  platters  until  cool  enough  to  be  handled,  and  form  into  a 

large  roll,  which  may  be  drawn  down  to  any  size  and  cut  off  in 

sticks. 

Walnut  Candy. 

The  meats  of  hickory-nuts,  English  walnuts,  or  black  walnuts 
may  be  used  according  to  preference  in  that  regard.  After 
removal  from  the  shells  in  as  large  pieces  as  practicable,  they  are 
to  be  placed  on  the  bottoms  of  tins,  previously  greased,  to  the 
depth  of  about  a  half  inch.  Next,  boil  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
a  half  pint  of  water,  and  one  gill  of  good  molasses  until  a  portion 
of  the  mass  hardens  when  cooled.  Pour  the  hot  candy  on  the 
meats  and  allow  it  to  remain  until  hard. 

Meringitbs. 
Take  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  add  to  it  the  beaten 
whites  of  eight  eggs  (slowly),  until  it  forms  a  stiff  froth;  fill  a 
tablespoon  with  the  paste,  and  smooth  it  over  with  another  spoon 
to  the  desired  shape;  sift  a  little  sugar  over  a  sheet  of  paper,  drop 
the  meringues  about  two  inches  apart;  dust  a  little  sugar  over 
them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  with  the  door  left  open  part  way,* 
so  they  can  be  continually  watched;  when  fawn  colored,  take 
them  out;  remove  them  from  the  paper  with  a  thin  knife;  scrape 
out  of  each  a  little  of  the  soft  part.     They  may  be  neatly  arranged 


'1 
t 


CONFECTIONERY.  99 

* 

around  a  disk  of  whipped  cream,  or  filled  with  ice  cream.  If 
whipped  cream  is  used,  they  would  be  improved  by  the  addition  of 
a  little  bright  jelly  inside  each  meringue. 

Crbam  Meehtgites. 

Four  eggs  (the  whites  only),  whipped  stiff,  with  one  pound  pow- 
dered sugar,  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring.  When  very  stiff,  heap  in 
the  shape  of  half  an  egg  upon  stiff  letter-paper  lining  the  bottom  of 
your  baking  pan.  Have  them  half  an  inch  apart.  Do  not  shut  the 
oven  door  closely,  but  leave  space  through  which  you  can  watch 
thenL  When  they  are  a  light  yellow-brown,  take  them  out  and 
cool  quickly.  Slip  a  thin  bladed  knife  under  each;  scoop  out  the 
soft  inside  and  fill  with  cream  whipped  as  for  charlotte  russe.  They 
are  very  fine.    The  oven  should  be  very  hot. 

Macakoon. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of  blanched  sweet  almonds  and  one 
and  one-fourth  pounds  of  lump  sugar  until  they  are  fine;  then  add 
one-half  pound  of  com  starch,  one-fourth  pound  of  rice  or  wheat 
flour;  mix  into  a  fine  smooth  batter  with  the  whites  of  about  eight 
eggs.  Drop  the  mixture  in  small  quantities  through  a  cornucopia 
on  a  sheet  of  paper,  dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  -  a  steady  oven. 
They  should  be  baked  a  fawn  color. 

Bachelor  Buttons. 
Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  into  five  ounces  of  flour;  add  five 
ounces  of  white  sugar;  add  one  beaten  egg;  flavor;  roll  into  small 
balls  with  the  hands;  sprinkle  with  sugar.     Bake  on  tins  covered 
with  buttered  paper. 

Corn  Starch  Batbffbs. 

One-fourth  pound  sweet  and  the  same  of  bitter  almonds,  one-half 
pound  com  starch,  one-fourth  pound  of  rice  flour,  one  and  one- 
fourth  pounds  of  pulverized  sugar,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Pro- 
ceed the  same  as  for  macaroons,  only  drop  one-fourth  the  size. 
Do  not  dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  hotter  ovenl 


CHAPTER  VL 

CATSUPS. 

pOD  home-made  catsup  is  a  most  valuable  addition  to  the 
store-room,  and  a  good  housekeeper  will  always  look  with 
pride  upon  it  as  it  stands  upon  the  shelves  in  closely-corked 
bottles,  neatly  labeled,  feeling,  as  she  may,  that  she  possesses  close 
at  hand  the  means  of  imparting  a*delicious  flavor  to  her  sauces  and 
gravies  without  at  the  same  time  placing  any  deleterious  compound 
before  her  friends.  Though  excellent  preparations  are  no  doubt 
sold  by  respectable  dealers,  the  superiority  of  catsup  when  made  at 
home  is  undisputed,  and  the  comfortable  certainty  attending  its  use 
is  so  great,  that  we  would  earnestly  recommend  every  lady  who  has 
the  time  and  opportunity  to  do  so,  to  superintend  personally  the 
manufacture  of  that  which  is  used  in  the  kitchen.  It  is  not  well, 
however,  to  make  a  very  large  quantity,  as  it  is  rarely  improved  by 
being  long  kept.  Catsup  should  be  stored  in  a  cool,  dry  place;  the 
corks  should  be  covered  with  resin,  and  the  liquid  should  be  exam- 
ined frequently,  and  if  there  are  the  slightest  signs  of  fermentation 
or  mold,  it  should  be  re-boiled  with  a  few  pepper-corns,  and  put 
into  fresh,  dry  bottles.  Always  select  perfect  fruit,  and  cook  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle. 

Cfrbant  Catsup. 

Boil  five  pints  of  ripe  currants  in  one  pint  of  vinegar  until  soft; 
strain  all  through  a  sieve,  then  add  three  pints  of  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice;   boil  about  one  hour. 

100 


CATSUPS.  101 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Take  one-half  bnshel  of  full-grown  cucumbers,  peel  and  chop 
them,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  put  them  in  a  sieve  and  let  them 
stand  over  night;  add  two  dozen  onions,  cut  up  small,  one-half 
pound  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  pound  of  black  mustard  seed, 
two  ounces  of  black  pepper,  ground.  Mix  well  with  the  best  cider 
vinegar,  making  it  the  consistency  of  thick  catsup,  and  fill  your 
jars,  tying  up  closely.     It  requires  no  cooking. 

GOOSBBEBBY   CaTSUP. 

Ten  pounds  of  gooseberries,  six  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
allspice  and  cloves.  Mash  the  gooseberries  thoroughly;  scald  and 
put  through  the  colander;  add  thte  sugar  and  spices,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  the  vinegar;  bottle  immediately. .  Bipe  grapes 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Plum  Catsup. 

To  three  pounds  of  fruit  put  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoonful  of  pepper,  a  very  little  salt;  scald  the  plums  and 
put  them  through  a  colander;  then  add  sugar  and  spices,  and  boil 
to  the  right  consistency. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  sound  ripe  tomatoes,  slice  and  cook  until  done  enough  to 
put  through  a  sieve;  then  to  every  gallon  of  the  pulp  and  juice  add 
one  cup  of  chopped  onion,  one-half  cup  of  black  pepper,  four  pods 
of  red  pepper,  cut  fine,  one-half  cup  of  ground  ginger  and  mustard 
mixed,  one  ounce  celery  seed,  one-half  cup  of  allspice,  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  mixed,  one-half  teaspoonf ul  cloves,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
and  sufficient  salt  to  taste  distinctly,  one  pint  strong  cider  vinegar; 
put  all  together  and  cook  two  hours,  or  longer  if  not  thick  enough. 
It.  must  not  be  thin  or  watery.  Bottle  and  seal  while  hot,  an<^ 
in  a  good  cellar  it  will  keep  two  years. 


102  CATSUPS. 

Tomato  Catsup,  No.  2. 
One  buflhel  of  good  ripe  tomatoes,  one-half  gallon  of  cider  vine- 
gar, one-fourth  pound  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  doves,  three 
tablespoonf  uls  of  black  pepper,  six  large  onions  or  two  heads  of 
garlic,  one  pint  of  salt,  four  large  red  peppers;  cook  thoroughly, 
and  strain  through  a  sieve,  then  boil  till  it  is  thick  enough,  and 
*dd  the  vinegar. 


1 


r "  ~ 


CHAPTER  VII. 

DESSERTS. 

Puddings. 

ITHOXJT  pretending  to  make  a  skillful  cook  by  book,  we 
believe  that  any  intelligent  beginner  may  compound  a  good 
pudding  by  attending  to  the  following  simple  rules  and 
plain  directions:  Attention  is  all  that  is  required,  and  a  little 
manual  dexterity  in  turning  the  pudding  out  of  the  mold  or  cloth. 
Let  the  several  ingredients  be  each  good  and  fresh  of  its  kind,  aa 
one  bad  article,  particularly  eggs,  will  taint  the  whole  composition 
Have  the  molds  and  pudding  cloths  carefully  washed  when  used 
the  cloths  with  wood  ashes,  and  dried  in  the  open  air.  Lay  them 
aside  sweet  and  thoroughly  dry.  Pudding  ought  to  be  put  into 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  which  must  be  kept  on  a  quick  boil;  or, 
baked,  in  general  in  a  sharp  but  not  scorching  oven.  A  pudding  in 
which  there  is  much  bread  must  be  tied  loosely,  to  allow  room  for 
swelling.  A  batter  pudding  should  be  tied  up  firmly.  Molds 
should  be  quite  full,  well  buttered  and  covered  with  a  fold  or  two 
of  paper  floured  and  buttered.  Eggs  for  puddings  must  be  used 
in  greater  quantities  when  of  small  size.  The  yolks  and  whites,  if 
the  pudding  is  wanted  particularly  white  and  nice,  should  be 
strained  after  being  separately  well  beaten.  A  little  salt  is  neces- 
sary for  all  potato,  bean,  or  pease  puddings,  and  all  puddings  in 
which  there  is  suet  or  meat,  as  it  improves  the  flavor.  The  several 
ingredients,  after  being  well  stirred  together,  should  in  general 
have  a  little  time  to  stand,  that  the  flavor?  may  blend.  A  frequent 
fault  of  boiled  puddings,  which  are  often  solid  bodies,  is  being 


104  DESSERTS. 

underdone.  Baked  puddings  are  as  often  scorched.  Puddings 
may  be  steamed  with  advantage,  placing  the  mold  or  basin  in  the 
steamer  and  keeping  the  water  boiling  under  it.  When  the  pud- 
ding-cloths are  to  be  used,  dip  them  in  hot  water,  and  dredge  them 
with  flour;  the  molds  must  be  buttered.  When  a  pudding  begins 
to  set,  stir  it  up  in  the  dish,  if  it  is  desired  that  the  fruit,  etc., 
should  not  settle  to  the  bottom;  and,  if  boiled,  turn  over  the  cloth 
in  the  pot  for  the  same  reason,  and  also  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the 
bottom,  on  which  a  plate  may  be  laid  as  a  preventive.  The  time 
of  boiling  must  be  according  to  size  and  solidity.  When  the  pud- 
ding is  taken  out  of  th^  pot,  dip  it  quickly  into  cold  water.  Set  it 
in  a  basin  of  its  size;  it  will  then  more  readily  separate  from  the 
cloth  without  breaking.  Remember  that  sugar,  butter,  and  suet 
become  liquids  in  boiling;  it  is  from  their  excess  that  puddings 
often  break.  Be,  therefore,  rather  sparing  of  sugar;  for  if  you 
have  much  syrup  you  must  have  more  eggs  and  flour,  which  make 
puddings  heavy.  It  is  often  the  quantity  of  sugar  that  makes 
tapioca  and  arrowroot,  boiled  plain,  troublesome  to  keep  in  shape 
when  molded.  Rice  or  other  grain  puddings  must  not  be  allowed 
to  boil  in  the  oven  before  setting,  or  the  ingredients  will  separate 
and  never  set;  so  never  put  them  in  a  very  hot  oven.  As  a  rule, 
we  may  assume  that  such  flavoring  ingredients  as  lemon — ^grate  or 
Juice,  vanilla  and  cocoanut,  are  more  admired  in  modern  puddings 
than  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Care  must  be  taken  to  mix 
batter  puddings  smoothly.  Let  the  dried  flour  be  gradually  mixed 
with  a  little  of  the  milk,  as  in  making  starch,  and  afterwards,  in 
nice  cookery,  strain  it  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Puddings  are  lighter 
boiled  than  baked.  Itaisins,  prunes,  and  damsons,  for  puddings 
must  be  carefully  stoned;  or.  Sultanas  may  be  used  in  place  of 
other  raisins;  currants  must  be  picked  and  plunged  in  hot  water, 
rubbed  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  plumped  and  dried  before  the  fire; 
almonds  must  be  blanched  and  sliced;  and  in  mixing  grated  bread, 
pounded  biscuit,  etc.,  with  milk,  pour  the  milk  on  them  while  hot, 
and  cover  the  vessel  for  an  hour,  which  is  both  better  and  easier 


k 


DESSERTS.  105 

than  boiling.  Suet  must  be  quite  fresh  and  free  from  fiber.  Mut- 
ton suet  for  puddings  is  lighter  than  beef;  but  marrow,  when  it 
can  be  obtained,  is  richer  than  either.  A  baked  pudding,  for  com- 
pany, has  often  a  paste  border,  or  a  garnishing  of  blanched  and 
sliced  almonds  about  it,  but  these  borders  are  merely  matters  of 
•ornament;  if  molded,  puddings  may  also  be  garnished  in  various 
ways,  as  with,  bits  of  currant  jelly.  The  best  seasoning  for  plain 
batter  puddings  are  extracts  of  orange  or  lemon,  or  orange-flower 
water.  The  sweetness  and  flavor  of  pudding  must,  in  most  cases, 
he  determined  by  individual  tastes.     Sugar  can  be  added  at  table. 

To  TOXTNG  HOTTSEKEEPEBS. 

All  young  housekeepers  should  learn  as  soon  as  possible  how  to 
prepare  dishes  for  dessert  which  can  be  made  on  very  short  notice, 
that  they  may  not  be  annoyed  in  the  event  of  unexpected  company 
to  dinner.  In  summer,  fruit  answers  every  purpose,  but  at  other 
-seasons,  and  particularly  if  the  first  course  is  not  very  elaborate, 
she  will  need  to  have  something  more  substantial.  A  delicious 
pudding  can  be  made  in  a  few  minutes  by  taking  one  pint  of  milk 
and  stirring  into  it  half  a  cup  of  cassava,  half  a  cup  of  cocoanut,  two 
eggs,  a  little  butter,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste;  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Cook  this  as  you  would  boiled  custard.  When  cooked  and  put  in 
the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  pour  over  the  top  the  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  pulverized 
sugar  added.  Set  it  in  the  oven  for  a  short  time  to  brown.  This 
may  be  eaten  warm  or  cold,  with  jelly  or  preserves  or  without. 
Another  dish  which  is  easily  made  and  which  is  economical  as  well 
as  palatable,  is  to  take  slices  of  cake  which  are  a  little  dry  an4  pour 
•over  them  while  hot  some  boiled  custard;  cover  the  dish  quickly, 
and  the  hot  custard  will  steam  the  cake  sufficiently.  Raisin  cake 
steamed  and  served  with  some  pudding  sauce  is  good.  Velvet 
cream,  to  be  eaten  with  cake,  is  made  in  this  way:  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  raspberry 


106  DBSSERTB. 

jam;  beat  all  well  together;  cream  may  be  added  or  not,  as  you 
choose.  Oranges  cut  up,  with  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut  sprinkled 
over  them  are  also  nice  for  cake. 

Abbowsoot  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  three  and  one-half  tablespoonf uls  arrowroot,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonfui  each  of  extract  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  arrowroot  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
and  the  sugar;  let  reboil;  take  from  the  fire;  beat  in  the  eggs, 
whipped  a  little,  and  the  extracts;  pour  in  a  well-buttered  earthen- 
ware dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  one-half  an  hour;  a  few  minutes 
before  taking  from  the  oven,  sift  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  over  it, 
and  set  back  to  glaze.     This  pudding  is  generally  eaten  cold. 

Almond  Pudding. 

Two  egg  muffins,  one  cup  almonds,  blanched — ^pouring  boiling 
water  on  them  till  the  skin  slips  easily  off — and  pounded  to  a  fine 
paste,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
pints  milk,  one  teaspoonfui  each  of  extract  bitter  almonds  and  rose. 
Cut  off  the  top  crust  from  muffins  very  thin;  steep  them  in  the 
milk;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  with  the  almonds,  then 
add  the  steeped  muffins  squeezed  a  little  dry;  dilute  with  the  milk, 
add  the  extract,  and  put  it  thus  prepared  into  a  well-buttered 
earthenware  dish;  then  stir  gently  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  dry 
froth,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  about  one-half  hour. 

Pie-Planf  Charlotte. 

Wash  and  cut  the  pie-plant  into  small  pieces,  cover  the  bottom 
of  a  pudding  dish  with  a  layer  of  pie-plant  and  sugar,  then  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  or  thin  slices  of  bread  nicely 
buttered,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  If  preferred,  turn  over  the  charlotte  a  boiled  custard 
when  ready  for  the  table. 


DESSERTa  107 

-    Ceoquettbs  of  Rics. 
Put  a  qnarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  table^ 
spoonfuls  of  finely-eifted  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
nut  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  into  a  saucepan.     Any   other 
flavoring  may  be  need  if  preferred.     Simmer  gently  until  the  rice 
ifl  tender  and  the  milk  absorbed.     It  must  be  boiled  until  thick 
and  dry,  or  it  will  be  difficult  to  mould  into  croquettes.     Beat  it 
thoroughly  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  turn  it  out,  and  when  it 
is  cold  and  still,  form  it  into  small  balls;  dip  these  in  egg,  sprinkle- 
a  few  bread  crumbs  over 
them,  and  fry  them  in  clar- 
ified fat  till  they  are  lightly 
and  equally  browned.   Put 
them  on    a  piece  of  clean  I 
blotting  paper,  to  drain  the 
fat  from  them,  and  serve 

them  piled  high  on  the  disb  j 

them,  it  is  an  improvement  to  introduce  a  little  jam  into  the  middle- 
of  each  one;  or  jam  may  be  served  with  them.  Time,  about  one 
hour  to  boil  the  rice,  ten  minutes  to  fry  the  croquettes. 

BOHBEB  AU  Riz. 
*  Take  half  a  pint^f  rice,  put  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  and 
salt.  Let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  drain 
the  rice,  pour  on  milt  enough  to  cover  it;  put  it  on  the  back  part 
of  the  stove,  where  it  will  not  bum,  and  let  it  absorb  the' milk;  put 
in  enough  milk  to  make  the  rice  soft.  While  the  milk  is  being 
absorbed  add  four  tableapoonfnls  of  sweetening  and  one  teaspoouful 
of  fiavoring.  When  the  rice  is  thoroughly  tender  take  it  from  the 
fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  If  the  rice  is  not  hot  enough 
to  thicken  the  eggs,  put  it  back  on  the  fire;  stir  constantly  and  let 
it  remain  just  long  enough  to  tbicken,  biit  don't  let  it  burn.  As 
Boon  as  it  thickens  put  it  on  a  disli  and  rub  with  salad  oil;  then  put 
it  where  it  will  get  very  cold.    As  soon  as  cold  it  is  ready  to  use 


106  DESSERTS. 

for  rice  croquets  or  bombes.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  rice  in 
your  hand  and  flatten  it;  put  a  plum  or  any  sweetmeat  in  the 
center,  roll  the  rice  round  the  sweetmeat,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  dip 
in  eggy  then  roll  in  the  cracker  dust  again.  Fry  in  smoking  hot 
lard  and,  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Gbeen  Coen  Pudding. 

A  most  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  meat  course.  Take  one 
quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  white  sugar,  and  a  dozen  large  ears  green  com;  grate 
the  com  from  the  cob;  beat  the  whites  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
separately;  put  the  com  and  yolks  together,  stir  hard  and  add  the 
butter,  then  the  milk  gradually,  beating  all  the  while,  next  the 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt,  lastly  the  whites.  Bake  slow  at  first,  cover- 
ing the  dish  for  an  hour;  remove  the  cover  and  brown  nicely. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cup  milk,  two  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  eggy  one  cup  of  sugar.  Steam 
three-quarters,  or  bake  one  hour.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Cranbebbt  Roll. 

Stew  a  quart  of  cranberries  in  just  water  enough  to  keep  them 
from  burning.  Make  very  sweet,  strain,  and  cool.  Make  a  paste, 
and  when  the  cranberry  is  cold,  spread  it  on  the  paste  about  an  inch 
thick.  Roll  it,  tie  it  close  in  a  flannel  cloth,  boil  two  hours  and 
serve  with  a  sweet  sauce.  Stewed  apples  or  other  fruit  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

Dklmonico  Pudding. 

One  quart  scalded  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  com  starch,  moist- 
ened with  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  the  yolks  of 
six  eggs  well  beaten,  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  stir  all  together. 
Take  it  off  the  fire,  flavor  it,  and  put  into  a  pudding  dish.  Then 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  spread  over  the  top,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 


DESSERTS.  109 

Eve's  Puddinq. 

■ 

Take  equal  quantities  of  floar,  fresh  butter,  and  sugar,  six  ounces 
>f  each;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  beat  the  sugar  and  flour 
into  it.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beat  them 
until  light,  and  add  the  yolks  first,  then  the  whites,  to  the  batter, 
and  lastly  half  a  dozen  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  and  the 

a 

grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat  well,  and  fill  small  cups  to  about 
half;  then  set  before  the  fire  to  rise.  In  five  minutes  put  them  into 
the  oven  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

Fig  Pudding. 

Half  a  pound  figs,  half  cup  suet,  half  a  pound  bread  crumbs,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  milk;  chop  the  suet  and 
figs  fine,  add  some  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  a  glass  of  wine,  if 
you  choose,  or  leave  it  out  if  you  prefer.  Boil  it  three  hours — 
sauce. 

Fbuit  Pudding. 

Take  one  cup  each  sweet  milk,  suet  (minced),  raisins,  currants, 
and  molasses.  Stiffen  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  flour,  having 
added  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  to  the  flour  and  crumbs; 
boil  or  steam  till  done.  This  pudding  is  equally  as  good  the  second 
day  as  the  first. 

Baked  Farina  Pudding. 

Stir  into  a  quart  of  milk  when  boiling  one-half  pound  farina,  cook 
it  five  minutes  and  set  it  aside  to  cool,  meanwhile  stir  four  ounces 
of  butter  to  a  cream,  grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  add  the  yolk  of 
six  eggs,  one  cup  each  of  sugar,  raisins,  and  currants,  and  mix  all 
well  together  with  the  cooked  farina.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  froth,  stir  it  into  the  batter,  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour. 

> 

Plain  Fruit  Pudding.  , 

Take  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
cup  of  raisins,  half  a  cup  of  currants,  two  nutmegs,  one  cup  of  suet 
chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  wine  glass 


110  DESSERTS. 

of  brandy,  a  wine  glass  of  syrup,  and  a  little  milk  if  necessary.  Mix 
very  thoroughly;  tie  it  in  a  cloth  as  tight  as  possible,  and  boil  fast 
for  fiye  or  six  hours.     Serve  with  wine  sauce, 

Flobsntixb  Pudding. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  your  pan,  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  mix 
smoothly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  and  a  little  cold  milk; 
add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  lemon,  or  anything  your  fancy  suggests;  stir  into  the 
scalding  milk,  continue  stirring  till  of  the  consistency  of  starch  (ready 
for  use),  then  put  into  the  pan  or  dish  you  wish  to  serve  it  in;  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  spread  over 
the  top;  place  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  till  the  frosting  is  a  pretty 
brown.  Can  be  eaten  with  cream,  or  is  good  enough  without.  For 
A  change,  you  can  bake  in  cups. 

Gklatinb  Pudding, 

One  ounce  gelatine,  one  pint  cold  milk;  set  on  range,  and  let 
come  slowly  to  a  boil,  stirring  occasionally;  separate  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  six  fresh  eggs;  beat  the  yolks  well  and  stir  slowly  into 
hot  milk;  add  half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  when  quite  cold, 
^ir  in  a  quart  of  ^hipped  cream;  flavor^  with  vanilla  and  lemon 
extract  mixed;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  and 
stir  in  the  last  thing;  pack  on  ice. 

GiNGEB  Pudding. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  butter,  half  a  cup  of 
fruit,  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda.     Stir  stiff  and  steam  one  hour. 

Sauce  for  Ginger  Puddifig, — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-third 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon.  Pour  boiling  water  in  and  make  like  thin 
flt&rch. 

Honey  Comb  Pudding. 

Three  cups  flour,  one  cup  beef  suet,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup 


DESSERTS.  Ill 

molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  currants  or  whortleberries  in  the  season, 
one  teaspoonfnl  soda,  a  little  salt.  Boil  or  steam  three  honrs — 
sauce. 

HUCKLEBSBBT   PxiDDING. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two, 
cups  of  berries,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  salt. 
Mix  stiff  as  gingerbread.     Boil  two  hours  in  a  tin  pail.     Serve  with 
sauce. 

Hen's  Nbst. 

Make  blanc  mange,  pour  in  egg  shells  and  set  to  cool;  when  cold, 
break  the  egg  shells,  place  in  glass  dish,  cut  strips  of  lemon  peel 
and  let  boil  in  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  till  tender,  and  sprinkle  on 
the  egg  shapes,  and  make  custard  and  pour  over  the  nest. 

«    ^^ 

Iin)IAN   PuPDrNG. 

Stir  a  pint  of  com  meal  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk;  melt  four 
ounces  of  butter;  Tniv  it  first  with  a  pint  of  molasses,  and  then, 
very  gradually,,  with  the  meal.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  grated 
lemon  peel,  or  cinnamon,  and  as  soon  as  the  mixture  has  cooled, 
add,  stirring  briskly,  six  well-beaten  eggs.  Butter  a  dish  and  bake 
at  once. 

Apple  Pudding. 

A  loaf  of  stale  bread,  steamed  twenty  minutes  before  dinner, 
sliced,  spread  with  stewed  apple,  and  a  little  butter,  strewn  with 
sugar  and  browned  lightly  in  a  quick  oven,  makes  as  good  a  pud- 
ding as  any  one  would  like,  with  either  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 

Apple  Battsb  Pudding. 

Six  or  eight  fine  juicy  apples,  pared  and  cored,  one  quart  of  milk, 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter — melted,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Set  the  apples 
close  together,  in  the  baking  dish;  put  in  enough  cold  water  to  half 
cover  them,  and  bake,  closely  covered,  until  the  edges  are  clear,  but 


1  . 


112  DESSERTS. 

not  until  they  begin  i^  break.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  let  the 
fruit  get  cold  before  pouring  over  them  a  batter  made  of  tHe  ingre- 
dients enumerated  above.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  in  the 
baking  dish,  and  eat  with  sauce. 

To  one  quart  of  apples  partially  Btewed  ana  well  mashed,  put  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  four  heaping  tablespoonf uls 
J       Wf^^S^'  ^^^^  them  together  fifteen  minutes,  and  eat  with  rich 
nuik  and  nutmeg. 

Apple  Shjmp. 

One  quart  flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
shorten  with  one  teaspoonful  butter  rubbed  into  the  flour.  Mix 
with  cold  milk  or  water,  the  same  as  for  biscuit.  Put  two- 
quarts  of  pared,  sliced  or  quartered  apples  with  one  pint  of  water 
ipto  the  dish  in  which  the  slump  is  to  be  cooked.  Roll  the  crust 
about  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  quarters  and  with  it  cover  the  apples 
in  the  dish;  then  cover  the  whole  with  a  close  fitting  cover,  and 
boil  or  steam  till  done.  Take  out  on  a  platter  and  grate  nutmeg- 
over  the  apple.     Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce  or  sugar  and  creanu 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 
To  one  quart  flour  add  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
and  the  usual  quantity  of  salt.  Thoroughly  mix  while  dry  and 
sift.  Then  take  one  tablespoonf ul  lard  and  one  tablespoonful  but- 
ter and  chop  them  into  the  flour  prepared  as  above.  Then  mix^ 
with  sweet  milk  to  a  thin  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
Roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  squares. 

Apples  Surprised. 
Peel,  core,  and  slice  about  five  nice  cooking  apples,  sprinkle  the 
slices  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  one  of  grated  bread,  and  a  little 
sugar.  Have  some  lard  quite  hot  in  a  small  stew-pan,  put  the  slices 
of  apple  in  it,  and  fry  of  a  light  yellow;  when  all  are  done,  take 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  good  spoonful  of  grated 


DESSERTS.  113 

♦ 

bread,  a  Bpoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  milk;  put  into  the  pan, 
and  when  they  boil  up  throw  in  the  apple  slices,  hold  the  whole 
over  the  fire  for  two  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

Ambbb  Puddikg. 

Six  eggs  beaten  light,  one  cup  of  cream,  creamed  with  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  juice  of  a  lemon,  an^  half  the  grated  peel,  a  good 
pinch  of  nutmeg,  puff  paste.  Mix  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  together; 
put  into  a  custard  kettle,  set  in  hot  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Stir  in  lemon  and  nutmeg,  and  let  it  get  cold.  Put  a  strip  of  paste 
around  the  edge  of  a  pie  plate;  print  it  prettily;  pour  in  the  cold 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  steady,  not  too  hot  oven.    Eat  cold. 

Ambrosia. 

Eight  fine  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced,  one-half  grated  cocoanut, 
one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Arrange,  slices  of  orange  in  a 
glass  dish;  scatter  grated  cocoanut  thickly  over  them;  sprinkle  this 
lightly  with  sugar,  and  cover  with  another  layer  of  orange.  Fill 
the  dish  in  this  order,  having  a  double  quantity  of  cocoanut  and 
sugar  at  top.     Serve  soon  after  it  is  prepared. 

Apple  Omelette. 
Six  large  pippins  or  other  large  tart  apples,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  six  tablespoonf uls  of  white  sugar,  nutmeg  to  the 
taste,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  rose  water;  pare,  core,  and  stew  the 
apples,  as  for  sauce;  beat  them  very  smooth  while  hot,  adding 
butter,  sugar,  and  flavoring;  when  quite  cold,  add  the  eggs,  beaten 
separately  very  light;  put  in  the  whites  last  and  pour  into  a  deep 
bake-dish  previously  warmed  and  well  buttered.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  it  is  delicately  browned.  Eat  warm— not  hot.  A 
wholesome  dish  for  children. 

Apple  Charlotte. 

Butter  your  pudding  dish,  line  it  with  bread  buttered  on  both 
sides;  put  a  thick  layer  of  apples,  cut  in  thin  slices,  sugar,  a  little 
cinnamon  and  butter  on  top,  then  another  layer  of  bread,  apples. 


114  DESSERTS. 

sugar,  cinnamon  and  batter  last.  Bake  slowly  ohe  and  a  half 
hours,  keeping  the  pan  covered  until  half  an  hour  before  serving; 
let  the  apples  brown  on  top. 

Bancroft  Pudding. 

One  tablespoonf  ul  melted  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  one  pint  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda, 
one  cup  sweet  milk;  beat  well  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  pint  fine  bread  crumbs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Don't  let  it  bake  till  wateiy.  Whip  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  with  one  cup  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  put  into 
this  the  juice  of  the  lemon;  spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of 
jelly  or  other  sweemeat;  then  spread  the  whites  of  eggs  over  this, 
and  replace  in  the  oven  and  bake  lightly. 

Banana  and  Apple  Tart. 

Make  crust  of  fine  flour  and  fresh  butter.  Make  little  crust,  but 
make  it  good«  Slice  apples  fine  and  put  in  dish  with  three  or  four 
bananas  sliced,  only  adding  sugar  and  perhaps  a  little  syrup,  if  you 
have  got  it.  Cover  crust  over  fruit;  brush  a  little  melted  butter 
over  top,  strew  white  sugar  on  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  more, 
as  required. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  nice  tart  apples;  butter  a  pie  tin  and  slice 
the  apples  in  it;  make  a  batter  of  one  cup  cream  (sour  and  not  very 
rich),  one  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  one  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  bake;  when 
done  turn  bottom  side  up  and  spread  thickly  with  good  sweet 
butter  and  sugar.     To  be  eaten  warm. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding,  No.  2. 
Take  eight  or  ten  nice  apples,  pare  whole  and  core;  .place  in  a 


DESSERTS. 


115 


pudding  dish;  fill  the  cores  with  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Make  a  cus- 
tard of  five  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste;  pour  this 
over  the  apples  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Cabinet  Pudding. 

In  making  it  use  one  pint  of  milk,  six  eggs,  and  a  quantity  of 
stale  cake — stale  bread  could  be  used.  The  tin  must  be  carefully 
greased  with  butter,  and  around  the  inside  place  bits  of  fruit.  For 
this,  citron,  cherries,  currants,  or  any  kind  of  dried  fruit,  could  be 
used.  Over  this  is  put  a  layer  of  light  colored  cake,  sponge  cake 
perhaps,  and  the  center  is  filled  to  near  the  top  of  the  dish  with 
broken  up  pieces.  Upon  this  is  poured  the  custard  made  of  the 
eggs  and  milk  thoroughly  beaten  up  and  flavored  to  suit  the  taste. 
The  dish  is  then  placed  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  the  water 
coming  up  within  about  two-thirds  of  the  way  to  the  top.  The  pot 
is  covered  and  boiled  until  done  thoroughly. 

Cbeam  Batteb  Pudding. 

Take  one  cup  of  sour  cream  and  rub  with  one  cup  of  flour  until 
smooth;  then  pour  in  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs — the  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt  and  two-thirds  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  To  be  eaten  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Cracker  Pudding. 

Tour  crackers  pounded  and  sifted,  small  piece  of  butter,  one  and 
one-half  pints  milk,  scalded  and  poured  on  the  cracker  and  butter, 
four  eggs,  sugar  to  sweeten,  nutmeg. 

OhocoTiAte  Puddtno. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three  ounces  grated  chocolate.     Scald 
the  milk  and  chocolate  together;  when  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs  and  one  cup  sugar.     Bake  about  twenty-five  minutQB;  beat 
the  whites  from  the  top;  brown  in  the  oven;  eat  cold. 

Charloite  Pudding. 

Remove  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  bread,  dip  in  milk,  and  spread 


116  DESSERTS. 

tlie  slices  witli  butter.  Pare  and  cut  apples  very  thin.  Lay  the 
bread  in  a  buttered  dish,  spread  over  the  apples,  sweeten  and  flavor 
with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Bake  till  the  apples  are 
tender. 

CoTTAGK  Pudding. 

Warm  two  and  one-half  tablespoonf  uls  butter,  stir  in  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  teaspoonf uls  cream  of  tartar  in  one 
pint  flour,  one  teaspoonf ul  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  milk,  flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  lemon.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  serve 
hot  with  sauce. 

CiTSTABD   BbEAD   PuDDING. 

Two  cups  fine  dry  crumbs;  one  quart  of  milk;  five  ^ggs,  beatea 
light;  one  tablespoonf  ul  com  starch;  one  teaspoonf  nl  of  salt,  and 
one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  dissolved  in  milk;  flavor  to  taste. 
Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk,  and  heat  in  a  custard  kettle  to  a  boiL 
Add  the  com  starch  wet  with  cold  milk,  cook  one  minute,  turn  out 
and  beat  hard.  When  smooth  and  almost  cold,  whip  in  the  yolks, 
the  flavoring,  lastly,  the  whites.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mold  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce.     It  is  excellent. 

CocoANirT  Pudding. 

Take  sufficient  stale  bread  to  make  a  pudding,  the  size  you 
require;  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  After  it  is  soaked  well,  take  a 
fork  and  see  that  no  lumps  of  bread  remain;  then  add  half  a  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut,  make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  and  four 
eggs,  flavor  with  nutmeg  (of  course  you  will  sweeten  it  with  white 
sugar) ;  pour  over  and  bake  immediately. 

Cream  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk;  one  cup  of  hot  boiled  rice  well  cooked  but 
not  broken;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one  heaping  tablespoonf  ul  of  com 
starch;  five  eggs;  one-fourth  teaspoonf  ul  of  cinnamon  and  the  same 
of  grated  lemon  peel.  Heat  the  milk,  stir  in  the  com  starch  wet 
up  with  cold  milk;  then  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Add  to  these 
the  heaping  cup  of  boiled  rice.     Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  add 


*, 


DESSERTS.  117 

the  seasoning,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bake-dish.  Bake  until  well 
"set;"  spread  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  and  a  little  sugar, 
made  very  stiff.  When  this  has  colored  lightly,  take  from  the 
oven-     Make  on  Saturday,  and  set  on  ice  until  Sunday.     The  coldefi 

it  is  the  better. 

Cbumb  Pudding. 

Three  egg  yolks,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  bread  crumbs, 
half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cinnamon.  Beat  the  egg-yolks,  sugar,  crumbs, 
and  spice  in  a  basin  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  three  egg-whites 
beaten  to  a  white  snow  (not  too  firm),  bake  in  a  buttered  shallow 
tin  or  dish,  and  when  quite  cooled  turn  into  a  flat  dish  with  the 
lower  side  upward,  pour  over  it  a  glassful  of  wine  boiled  with  a 
little  sugar  and  spice,  and  serve  while  hot. 

Irish  Rock. 

A  sweet  for  dessert.     Wash  the  salt  from  half  a  pound  of  butter, 

and  beat  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  powdered  sugar; 

blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  an  ounce  of  bitter;  pound 

these  in  a  mortar,  reserving  enough  of  the  sweet  almonds  to  spike 

for  ornamenting  the  dish  when  sent  to  table;  add  the  butter  an^ 

sugar,  with  a  quarter  of  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  pound  until  smooth 

and  white;  when,  after  having  become   firm,  it  may  be  molded 

into  a  large  egg-like  shape,  and  stuck  full  of  almond  meats.     It 

should  be  placed  high  on  a  glass  dish,  with  a  decoration'  of  green 

sweetmeats  and  a  sprig  of  myrtle,  or  garnish  with  any  green  fruits 

or  sweetmeats. 

Jelly  Rice. 

Mix  four  ounces  of  rice  flour  smoothly  and  gradually  with  a  quart 

of  cold  milk;  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan,  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 

of  clarified  isinglass,  the  thin  rind  of  half   a  lemon,   four  bitter 

almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar.     Boil 

and  stir  briskly  until  quite  thick;  take  out  the  lemon  rind  and  pour 

the  mixture  into  a  damp  mold.     When  it  is  firmly  set,  turn  it  on  a 

glass  dish,  pour  melted  currant  jelly,  or  any  fruit  syrup,  round  it, 

%nd  send  a  dish  of  cream  to  table  with  it. 


118 


DESSERTS. 


Jelly  Custard. 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks,  one  cup  sugar, 
flavoring  to  taste,  some  red  and  yellow  jelly, — raspberry  is  good  for 
one,  orange  jelly  for  the  other.  Make  a  custard  of  the  eggs,  milk 
and  sugar;  boil  gently  until  it  thickens  well;  flavor  when  cold;  fill 
your  custard  glasses  two-thirds  full  and  heap  up  with  the  two  kinds 
of  jelly — ^the  red  upon  some,  the  yellow  upon  others. 

Jelly  Tartlets. 

Make  the  paste  the  same  as  for  pies;  line  small  patty  pans,  prick- 
ing the  paste  in  the  bottom  to  keep  it  from  puffing  too  high;  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  and  fill  with  jelly  or  jam. 

Kiss  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  till  light, 
add  one  and  a  half  tablespoonf  uls  of  corn  starch,  stir  in  one  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  stir  on  the  stove  till  thick,  pour  in  a  pudding  dish; 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  spread  over 
the  top  and  brown. 
^  Lemon  Pudding. 

One  lemon  grated,  rind  and  pulp,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
water  or  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  pastry 
crusts,  pour  the  custard  in,  bake  thirty  minutes.  Beat  the  whites 
of  three  or  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten,  spread  over  the  top 
of  the  pudding,  and  let  brown  slightly. 

Lemon  Trifle. 

« 

Two  lemons — ^juice  of  both  and  grated  rind  of  one,  one  cup 
sherry,  one  large  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  cream  well  sweetened  and 
whipped  stiff,  a  little  nutmeg.  Strain  the  lemon  juice  before  adding 
the  wine  and  nutmeg.  Strain  again  and  whip  gradually  into  the 
frothed  cream.  Serve  in  jelly  glasses  and  send  around  cake  with 
it.     It  should  be  eaten  soon  after  it  is  made. 


DESSERTS.  119 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Two  eggs,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  cream, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonf  ul  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one-half  lemon.     Bake  in  a  moderate  over. 

Meringub  Rice  Pudding. 
Take  a  cup  of  rice  to  one  pint  of  water;  when  the  rice  is  boiled 
dry  add  one  pint  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  five 
eggs.  Beat  the  yolks,  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  mix  with 
the  rice.  Butter  a  dish;  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  lightly. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
a  lemon.  When  the  pudding  is  nearly  done,  spread  on  this  frosting, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  the  top  is  light  brown. 

Malagan  Pudding. 

One-third  cup  rice,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  half  a 
lemon  and  salt.  Soak  the  rice  over  night.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  the  sugar,  and  grate  in  the  lemon 
rind;  add  the  rice  and  milk.  Bake  one  hour.  Take  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  then  *' 
add  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  it  over  the  pudding  a/ter  it  is  baked, 
and  brown  it  in  the  oven  two  or  three  minutes.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Mitchell  Pudding, 

One  cup  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  suet  or  butter,  one  cup  molasses 
—some  like  one  cup  sugar  with  two  spoonfuls  molasses  better — one 
cup  sour  nulk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  salt,  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.     Steam  three  or  four  hours.     Sauce. 

Maud's  Pudding. 
Six  eggs,  ten  tablespoonf  uls  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt; 
mix  to  a  light  batter  with  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  in  flour — 
it  will  rise  high,  bake  in  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven — put  into  the 
oven  just  as  dinner  is  being  served  so  it  will  not  fall  before  coming 
to  the  talkie.  Serve  with  cream .  flavored  with  lemon  or  other 
extract  to  taste. 


120  DESSERTS. 

Objlsge  Pudding. 
Soak  the  crambB  of  a  French  roll  in  milk,  let  it  drain  in  a  colander 
for  half  an  hour,  break  it  with  a  spoon  in  a  basin,  add  two  ounces 
of  sugar,  grated,  one  ounce  of  butter,  warmed,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggg,  the  juice  of  four  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  one,  and  finally 
the  four  egg-whites  beaten  (not  too  stiffly)  on  a  plate  with  a  knife, 
and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  in  a  quick  oven.  The  pudding  will  be 
equally  good  boiled  in  a  mold  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  served 
with  a  sweet  sauce. 

Christuas  Plum  Pcdddjg, 
Shred  finely  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  and  add  to  it 
a  pinch  of  salt,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound 
of  dour,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  rtusins,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  currants,  picked  and  dried,  two  ounces  of  candied  lemon 
and  citron  together,  and  half  a  large  nutmeg.     Mix  these  tho^ 
oughly,  then  add  four  eggs 
and  milk  enough  to  moisten 
it,  but  not  too   much  or  the 
padding  will  be  heavy.     Tie 
in    a    pudding'  cloth,    well 
I  floured,  and  boil  for  five  or 
six  hours;  or,  we  think  bet- 
ter when  boiled   in  a  mold* 
which  should  be  well  buttered  before  the  mixture  is  put  in.     The 
mold  should  not  be  quite  full  and  should  be  covered  with  one  or 
two  folds  of  paper,  buttered  and  floured,  and  then  with  a  floured 
pudding  cloth. 

Plum  Pudding. 
One  pound  of  rmsina,  one  of  currants,  one  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
and  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  flour,  one-quarter  pound  of  brown  sugar,  rind  of 
one  lemon  (chopped  fine),  one-half  nutmeg  grated,  five  eggs,  one- 
half  pound  mixed  candied  peel,  one-half  pint  of  brandy;  mix  well 


DESSERTS.  121 

ft 

the  dry  ingredients;  beat  the  eggs  with  the  brandy;  pour  this  over 
the  other  things  and  thoroughly  mix;  to  be  boiled  in  a  basin  or 
mold  for  six  hours  at  the  time  of  making,  and  six  hours  when 
wanted  for  use. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  beef  suet,  three-quarters  pound  bread  crumbs  (not 
flour),  three-quarters  pound  raisins,  three-quarters  pound  currants, 
two  ounces  sweet  almonds,  with  two  or  three  bitter  ones,  eight 
eggs,  well  beaten,  one  quarter  pound  citron,  a  glass  of  brandy  and 
one  of  sherry  wine;  grate  in  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  to 
your  taste;  mix  all  these  ingredients  well;  boil  six  hours  in  a  bowl 
or  cloth.  When  turned  out  and  ready  for  the  table,  pour  over 
brandy,  set  on  fire  and  carry  to  table  surrounded  by  blue  flame. 
This  quantity  will  be  dessert  for  six  persons.  Two  or  three  times 
the  quantity  may  be  made,  boiled  five  hours,  and  set  away  for  use 
New  Year's,  Easter,  or  any  intervening  birthday.  It  will  be  good 
at  the  end  of  twelve  months.  When  wanted  to  use,  boil  two  hours 
longer. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  coffeecup  of  molasses,  one  coflFeecup  of  milk,  one  coffeecup 
of  chopped  suet,  one  coffeecup  of  chopped  raisins,  four  coffeecups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  three  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  one  egg.  Boil  or  steam  three  hours.  Flavor  with  wine, 
or  extract  of  orange,  on  sauce. 

Rich  Plum  Pudding. 

Beat  up  eight  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  strain;  mix 
them  with  a  pint  of  thick  cream;  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  flour  and 
half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  rubbed  through  the  colander;  when 
well  mixed  beat  in  one  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  very  fine,  one 
pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  finely  chopped  raisins,  one  pound ' 
of  powdered  sugar,  two  ounces  of  candied  lemon,  and  two  of  citron, 
and  a  nutmeg  grated;  mix  up  all  with  half  a  pint  of  brandy  or  of 
wine;  boil  in  a  cloth  for  six  or  seven  hours.     Any  of  these  Christ- 


122  DESSERTS. 

mas  puddings  may  be  kept  for  a  month  after  boiling,  if  the  cloth  iat 
which  they  are  made  be  replaced  by  a  clean  one,  and  the  puddings 
be  hung  to  the  ceiling  of  a  kitchen  or  any  warm  store-room;  they 
will  then  be  ready  for  use,  and  w\ll  require  only  one  hour*8  boiling 
to  heat  them  thoroughly. 

Bakbd  Plum  PuDDiNd. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  raisins,  stoned, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus,  one-half  cup  of  citron,  chopped,  one-half  teaspoonful  each 
of  spice  and  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  two 
eggs,  fiour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  two  hours  and  serve 
with  sauce. 

PooK  Man's  Pudding. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs,  six  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour,  and 
a  little  salt.    Bake  half  an  hour.    Use  butter  and  sugar  dip. 

Raisin  Puffs. 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  one  of 
raisins,  chopped  very  fine.     Steam  one-half  hour  in  small  cups. 

*         RoLY  PoLY  Pudding. 

The  pastry  for  this  favorite  pudding  may  be  made  in  several 
different  ways,  according  to  the  degree  of  richness  required.  For 
a  superior  pudding,  mix  a  pound  of  flour  with  half  a  pound  of  very 
finely  shred  suet,  ireed  from  skin  and  fibre;  add  a  good  pinch  of 
salt,  an  egg^  and  nearly  half  a  pint  of  milk;  roll  it  out  to  a  long  thin 
form,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  of  a  width  to  suit  the  size  of 
the  saucepan  in  which  it  is  to  be  boiled;  spread  over  it  a  layer  of 
any  kind  of  jam,  berries,  or  fruit,  and  be  careful  that  the  sauce 
does  not  reach  the  edges  of  the  pastry.  Begin  at  one  end  and  roll 
it  up,  to  fasten  the  fruit  inside,  moisten  the  edges  and  press  them 
securely  together;  dip  a  cloth  in  boiling  water,  flour  it  well,  and 
tie  the  pudding  tightly  in  it;   put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 


DESSERTS.  123 

water,  at  the  bottom  of  which  a  plate  has  been  laid  to  keep  the 
padding  from  burning,  and  boil  quickly  until  done.  If  it  is  neces- 
sary to  add  more  water,  let  it  be  boiling  when  put  in,  or  the  pud- 
ding may  be  steamed.  Marmalade,  sliced  lemon  or  orange  and 
sugar,  chopped  apples,  or  currants,  may  be  used  for  filling.  K 
boiled,  it  will  require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  to 

boil. 

RiCB  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  rice  (boiled),  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  extract  of  lemon, 
vanilla,  or  orange. 

Sago  Pudding. 

One  quart  rich,  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  and  flavoring;  soak  sago  over  night  in  water; 
then  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  sago  together;  add  milk  and 
flavoring;  set  a  basin  in  the  steamer,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
steam  one  hour;  beat  whites  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  a 
stiff  froth;  spread  over  pudding  and  brown  in  oven  five  iniQutes; 
stir  while  steaming  or  the  sago  wiU  settle  to  the  bottom. 

SuBT  Pudding. 
One  small  cup  of  suet  cut  fine,  one  cup  of  mol'^sses,  one  cup 
chopped  raisins,  one  cup  sour  milk,  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda.  Stir 
thick  with  flour,  and  put  in  pudding  bag,  leaving  room  to  rise,  and 
boil  three  hours. 

Steamed  Pudding. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  heaping  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder,  and  three  cups 
of  flour;  steam  one  hour. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  half  a  box  of  gelatine;  add 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  twc^cups  sugar;  when  nearly  cold,  strain  it, 
add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  beat  all 


124  DESSERTS. 

well  together  again,  put  it  into  a  mold  to  shape  it.  and  let  it  cooL 
Take  the  yolks  of  these  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  and  one  teaspoonf  ul 
com  starch,  flavor  with  vanilla;  cook  this  like  any  soft  custard,  put 
the  hard  part  of  the  pudding  into  a  dish,  when  you  want  to  serve  it, 
with  the  custard  round  it. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
€up  chopped  raisins,  three  cups  flour,  two-thirds  teaspoonful  soda. 
Put  into  a  covered  pail  and  steam  three  hours. 

Stbawbebbt  Shobt  Cake. 

Rub  into  one  quart  of  flour  five  ounces  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  add  gradualljr  enough 
milk  to  make  a  soft  dough;  divide  into  four  parts;  roll  one  part 
out  lightly;  cover  a  straight-sided  Vienna  cake  tin  with  it.  Roll 
out  another  part  and  lay  it  on  top  of  the  first.  Proceed  in  the  same 
way  with  the  other  two  parts,  usu:g  another  baking  tin.  Bake 
quickly,  and  when  done,  while  hot,  lift  the  upper  part  from  each 
pan,  butter  the  inner  surfaces,  and  place  between  the  two  crusts  a 
layer,  an  inch  thick,  of  fresh  berries,  mashed  and  sweetened.  Serve 
immediately,  with  cream.  A  raspberry  shortcake  may  be  made 
with  the  same  pastry. 

Custard  to  pour  over  Strawberry  Shortcake. — One  cup  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  com  starch,  one  egg,  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Flavor 
and  cook  as  custard. 

Strawbebry  Shobtcake,  No.  2. 

Mix  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  with  a  pound  of  flour;  chop  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little 
hot  water,  and  add  with  a  well-beaten  egg  to  a  large  cup  of  sour 
iU'eam  or  rich  "  lobbered  "  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Put 
all  together,  handling  as  little  as  possible,  and  mix  as  soft  as  can  be 
rolled.  Roll  lightly  and  quickly  into  two  sheets,  and  bake  in  round 
tins,  well  greased,  laying  one  sheet  on  the  other.     When  done. 


DESSERTS.  126 

separate,  they 'fill  part  where  they  were  joined.  Lay  on  the- 
lower  sheet  a  thick  layer  of  strawberries,  and  dust  with  powdered 
sugar.  If  desired,  strawberries  can  be  placed  on  top  and  sugared 
as  before.  Serve  with  sweet  cream.  If  the  strawberries  are  just 
heated  a  little  and  crashed  lightly  with  a  spoon  and  then  put 
between  the  crusts,  it  is  much  improved. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Put  a  cup  of  tapioca  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt  into  a  pint  and  » 
half  of  water  and  let  it  stand  a  couple  of  houi^  where  it  will  be 
quite  warm  and  not  cook.  Peel  six  tart  apples,  take  out  their  cores 
and  fill  them  with  sugar  in  which  is  grated  a  little  nutmeg  and 
lemon  peel,  and  put  them  in  a, pudding  dish.  Over  these  pour  the 
tapioca,  first  mixing  with  it  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  melted  butter  and  a 
little  cold  milk.     Bake  one  hour.     Eat  with  sauce. 

Tapioca  Pudding^  No.  2. 

One  cup  tapioca,  soaked  in  water  an  hour,  one  quart  milk,  three 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar.     Bake. 

To  Cook  Rice. 

To  cook  rice  so  that  the  grains  will  be  whole  and  tender,  wash  it 
in  cold  water  until  the  water  looks  clear,  then  cook  it  rapidly  in 
boiling  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  after  which  drain  and  place  the 
covered  saucepan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  steam  until  the  grains 
crack  open  and  are  tender,  which  will  be  about  fifteen  minutes 
longer. 

Vegetable  Pudding. 

Half  a  pound  of  carrots,  half  a  pound  of  cold,  mashed  potatoes, 
the  same  of  flour,  suet,  sugar,  four  ounces  candied  lemon  peel,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants.     Boil  slowly  for  two  hours. 

Whipped  Syllabubs. 

One  pint  of  cream,  rich  and  sweet,  one-half  cup  sugar,  powdered, 
one  glass  of  wine,  vanilla,  or  other  extract  one  large  teaspoonfid* 


126  •     DESSERTS. 

Sweeten  the  cream^  and,  when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved, 
8tir  in  the  wine  carefully  with  the  flavoring  extract,  and  chum  to  a 
strong  f  roth«     Heap  in  glasses  and  eat  wijth  cake. 

Yankee  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  saleratus, 
one  teaspoonf ul  of  ginger,  same  of  cinnamon,  five  of  flour,  one  egg; 
bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 

Sauce. — One  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  half  cup  sugar,  white  of  one 
egg,  beaten  lightly,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  com  starch;  flavor  with 
nutmeg.     Boil  one  minute. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

A  nice  and  easily  made  sauce  for  plum  and  all  kinds  of  rich  pud- 
dings may  be  made  as  follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
add  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  Madeira,  and 
set  it  upon  a  slow  fire  and  stir  until  it  becomes  smooth,  and 
thickens.     Serve  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

Sweet  Sauce. 

Sweeten  a  little  good,  melted  butter,  and  flavor  it  with  grated 
lemon  rind,  nutmeg,  or  powdered  cinnamon,  strew  a  little  of  the 
grate  over  the  top,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  A  little  wine  or  brandy 
may  be  added  at  pleasure.  This  sauce  is  suitable  for  almost  all 
ordinary  boiled  puddings. 

Fbutt  Sauce. 

Boil  fruit  (almost  any  kind  may  be  used)  with  a  little  water  until 
it  is  quite  soft;  rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve;  sweeten  to  taste;  make 
it  hot,  and  pour  over  boiled  or  steamed  puddings. 

Prutt  Pudding  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  dessert- 
spoonful com  starch  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk,  one  lemon — ^juice  and 
half  the  grated  peel,  one  glass  of  wine,  one  cup  boiling  water* 


PE8SERT&  127. 

Oream  the  butter  and  sugar  well;  pour  the  oom  starch  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is  well  thickened; 
put  all  together  in  a  bowl  and  beat  five  minutes  before  returning  to 
the  saucepan.  Heat  once,  almost  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the 
wine,  and  serve. 

Arbowboot  Sauce. 

MiY  a  tablespoonf ttl  of  arrowroot  smoothly  with  a  little  cold 
water;  add  a  third  of  a  pint  of  water,  a  glass  of  wine,  the  juice  of 
41  lemon,  and  sugar  and  flavoring;  stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  till 
it  boils.  This  sauce  may  be  varied  by  omitting  the  wine,  and  using 
milk  with  the  arrowroot.  The  juice  of  almost  any  fruit,  too,  may 
"be  boiled  with  the  arrowroot. 

Gebman  Custabd  Sauce. 

Pour  yolks  eggs,  two  ounces  powdered  sugar,  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  it  sharply  over  a 
slow  fire,  until  it  assumes  the  appearance  of  a  light,  frothy  custard. 
It  is  a  good  sauce. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

Two  ^gS^9  two  cups  sugar,  and  one  cup  butter,  one  glass  of  wine; 

beat  all  well  together  till  creamy,  and  set  over  the  fire  a  few 

minutes  to  scald  through  once,  or  set  it  in  the  tea  kettle  top  to  heat 

through. 

Puff  Paste. 

Use  for  each  pound  of  butter  one  pound  of  flour.  First  the 
butter  should  be  worked  or  kneaded  with  the  hand  until  all  the 
l)uttermilk  or  water  which  may  be  in  it  is  squeezed  out.  Wet  the 
hand  and  the  molding  board  with  cold  water.  The  butter  must 
not  be  put  in  with  the  cracks  in  it,  which  you  will  see  on  breaking 
it,  for  these  make  the  pastry  full  of  flakes.  By  working  with  the 
hand  a  smooth  even  paste  can  be  made  without  melting  the  butter. 
After  working,  wrap  in  a  towel  dusted  with  flour  and  put  in  a  cool 
place.  Mix  one  pound  of  flour,  the  yolk  of  one  eggy  one  teaspoon^ 
f  nl  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt,  with 


128  DESSERTS. 

cold  water  enough  to  make  a  paste  as  soft  as  bread  dougK  The- 
lemon  juioe  is  for  making  the  dough  tender,  and  the  egg  is  used 
simply  to  give  a  yellowish  appearance  to  the  crust.  This  is  the- 
French  method  of  preparing  paste.  The  pastry  is  worked  to  mix 
the  gluten  with  the  water  to  make,  first,  a  slightly  tough  dough  to 
hold  the  butter;  the  lemon  juice  afterward  makes  it  tender.  It 
should  be  kneaded  about  five  minutes.  You  can  always  tell  when  it 
is  kneaded  enough,  because  it  will  then  pull  away  from  the  hand 
and  not  stick.  Roll  it  out  about  the  size  of  a  large  dinner  plate^ 
lay  in  it  the  butter,  fold  the  sides  over,  turn  it  over  and  roll  into  a 
strip  three  times  as  long  as  it  is  wide,  square  at  the  comers,  and 
one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Fold  one-third  over  the  middle  and 
the  other  third  over  that,  making  three  layers;  roll  again  into  & 
strip  three  times  as  long  as  it  is  wide.  Fold  a  second  time  and  roll 
out  again  in  the  same  way.  Fold  again  and  wrap  in  a  cloth,  place 
it  in  a  pan  and  set  where  it  will  get  very  cold.  This  is  called 
giving  the  pastry  "  one  turn."  When  it  is  made  by  fine  confec- 
tioners it  usually  has  six  "  turns." 

Pie  Crust. 

Into  one  quart  sifted  flour,  thoroughly  mix  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  sift  again.  Weigh  out  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  good  butter.  Take  half  of  it  and  chop  into  the ' 
flour  until  it  is  very  fine.  Then  add  enough  cold  water  (ice  water 
is  the  best)  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet  and 
baste  with  one-third  the  remaining  butter,  then  roll  it  up  closely 
into  a  long  roll,  flatten  and  re-roll,  then  baste  again.  Repeat  this 
operation  until  the  butter  is  gone.  Then  make  out  your  crust.  Do 
it  all  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  quantity  of  butter  may  be 
increased  or  decreased  to  suit  the  taste,  following  the  other  direc- 
tions as  stated. 

Good  and  Cheap  Pie  Crust. 

One  quart   sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful   salt,  two   heaping  tea^ 
spoonfuls  baking  powder;  mix  thoroughly  together  while  dry,  and 


DESSERTS.  129 

sift  Then  add  cold  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  and 
roll  out  as  usual.  Use  the  "  Pie  Crust  Glaze  "  on  both  the  bottom 
and  top  crusts,  as  per  following  recipe.  Some  prefer  less  of  the 
baking  powder  in  the  pie  crust.  A  trial  will  detemiine  what  quan* 
tity  best  suits  your  taste. 

Pie  Ckust  Glaze. 

To  prevent  the  juice  soaking  through  into  the  crust  and  making 
it  soggy,  wet  the  crust  with  a  beaten  egg  just  before  you  put  in  the 
pie  mixture.  If  the  top  of  the  pie  is  wet  with  the  egg  it  giyes  it  a 
beautiful  brown. 

Pie  Crust  pob  Foub  Small  Pies. 

One  and  a  half  cups  lard,  one  cup  cold  water,  three  and  a  half 
oups  flour,  mix  lard  and  flour  together;  add  water  last. 

Tabt  Cbust. 

One  cup  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  the  white  of  an  egg, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  three  tablespoonf uls  of 
ice  water;  flour  to  roll;  mix  lard  with  one  cup  of  flour;  add  salt, 
sugar,  and  cream  of  tartar;  beat  egg;  mix  with  water  and  saleratus, 
all  together;  keep  the  dough  cold;  add  flour  to  roll,  one-quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.'    The  above  makes  eighteen  tarts. 

Icing  Pabtbt. 

When  nearly  baked  enough,  take  the  pastry  out  of  the  oven  and 
sift  fine  powdered  sugar  over  it.  Replace  it  in  the  oven,  and  hold 
over  it  a  hot  salamander  or  shovel  till  the  sugar  is  melted.  The 
above  method  is  preferred  for  pastry  to  be  eaten  hot;  for  cold, 
beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well,  wash  over  the  tops  of  the  pies 
with  a  brush,  and  sift  over  this  a  good  coating  of  sugar;  cause  it 
to  adhere  to  the  egg  and  pie  crust;  trundle  over  it  a  clean  brush, 
dipped  in  water,  till  the  sugar  is  all  moistened.  Bake  again  for 
about  ten  minutes. 


130  Di;&SERTS. 

Pupp  Paste  with  Beep  Suet. 

When  you  cannot  obtain  good  butter  for  making  paste,  the  fol- 
lowing is  an  excellent  substitute:  Skin  and  chop  one  pound  of 
kidney  beef  suet  very  fine,  put  it  into  a  mortar  and  pound  it  well, 
moistening  with  a  little  oil,  till  it  become  as  it  were  one  piece, 
about  the  consistency  of  butter. 

Apricot  Pie. 

Pare,  stone,  and  half  the  apricots;  place  them  in  a  pie  dish,  piling 
them  high  in  the  center,  strew  over  them  a  little  sifted  sugar,  and 
a  few  of  the  kernels,  blanched  and  chopped  fine.  Cover  them  with 
a  good,  light  crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Apple  Pie. 

Fill  the  pie  crust  with  sour,  juicy  apples,  pared  and  sliced  thin, 
put  on  the  upper  ctust  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  soft,  then 
remove  the  upper  crust,  adding  sugar  to  taste,  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  stir  this  well  through  the  apple 
and  replace  the  crust. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 

Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft  and  not  much  water  left  in 
them,  then  rub  them  through  a  colander,  beat  three  eggs  for  each 
pie  to  be  baked,  and  put  in  at  the  rate  of  one  cup  of  butter  and  one 
of  sugar  for  three  pies.  Line  the  pie  tins  with  paste,  put  in  the 
apples  first,  spread  the  beaten  eggs,  butter  and  sugar,  flavored  with 
nutmeg  over  it.     Bake  as  pumpkin  pie. 

Boiled  Cider  Pie. 

A  boiled  cider  pie  may  be  a  novelty  to  some  one.     Take  four 

tablespoonf uls  of  boiled  cider,  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  sugar 

and  water,  two  tablespoonfuls   of  flour,  and  one   egg;    beat  all 

together.     Bake  in  a  deep  plate  and  with  upper  and  under  crusts. 

Banana  Pie. 
Slice  raw  bananas,  add  butter,  sugar,  allspice,  and  vinegar^  <)r 
boiled  cider  or  diluted  jelly.    Bake  with  two  crusts. 


DESSERTS.  131 

Crackeb  Pie. 

Soak  ten  crackers  io  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water,  add 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  raisins, 
two-thirds  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful 
ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon.      Bake  ynt}\  two  crusts* 

.  One  coffeecup  milk|  twti  tabiespooniuls  grated  chocolate,  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Heat  chocolate  and  milk 
together;  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  together,  beaten  to  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  with  under  crust.  Spread  meringue  of 
the  whites  over  the  top. 

CocoANUT  Pie. 

~  Open  the  eyes  of  a  cocoanut  with  a  pointed  knife  or  gimlet,  and 
pour  out  the  milk  into  a  cup;  then  break  the  shell  and  take  out  the 
meat  and  grate  it  fine.  Take  the  same  -weight  of  sugar  and  the 
grated  nut  and  stir  together;  beat  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately,  to  a  stiff  foam;  mix  one  cup  of  cream  and  the  milk  of 
the  cocoanut  with  the  sugar  and  nut,  then  add  the  eggs  and  a  few 
drops  of  orange  or  lemon  extract.  Line  deep  pie-tins  with  a  nice 
crust,  fill  them  with  the  custard,  and  bake  carefully  one-half  ao 
hour. 

Jelly  Custard.         » 

To  one  cup  of  any  sort  of  jelly,  add  one  egg  and  beat  well 
together  with  three  teaspoonfuls  cream  or  milk.  After  mixing 
thoroughly,  bake  in  a  good  crust. 

CusTABD  Pie. 

lane  a  deep  plate  with  pie  crust  and  fill  with  a  custard  made  of 
one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  bake  until  firm  in  the 
center;  this  you  can  tell  by  inserting  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon;  do 
not  let  the  oven  get  hot  enough  to  boil  it. 


132  DESSERTS. 

r 

Cream  Pie. 

Pout  j*  pint  of  cream  upon  a  cup  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar; 
let  it  s^and  till  the  whites  of  three  eggs  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth;  add  this  to  the  cream,  and  beat  up  thoroughly,  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  the  mixture  and  bake  as  custard  pies. 

Cbeam  Pie,  No.  2. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved,  and  one 
tablespoonf  ul  cold  water,  stirred  in  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  round 
sheets. 

CUSTABD   FOB   CrEAM   PiB. 

A  little  moFe  than  half  pint  milk,  half  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,, 
two  eggs.  Boil,  when  cold,  spread  on  the  cakes  and  lay  them 
together.     This  receipt  makes  two  pies. 

Delicate  Pie. 

To  stewed   apples   sufficient  for  four  pies,   one-half  pound  of 

butter,  six  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  pound  of  sugar;  flavor  with 

lemon,  the  apples  being  quite  cold  before  adding  the  eggs.     Bake 

as  a  tart  pie. 

Lemon  Pie. 

One  cup  of  hot  water,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  com  starch,  one  cup  of 
white  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon.  Cook* for  a  few  minutes,  add  one  egg,  and  bake 
with  a  top  and  bottom  crust. 

Fbuit  Pie. 

Line  a  soup  plate  with  a  rich  paste,  and  spread  with  a  layer  of 
strawberry  or  raspberry  preserves;  over  which  sprinkle  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  finely-chopped  almonds  (blanched  of  course),  and  one- 
half  ounce  of  candied  lemon  peel  cut  into  shreds.  Then  mix  the 
following  ingredients:  One-half  pound  white  sugar,  one-quarter 
pound  butter,  melted,  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  few 
drops  of  almond  essence.     Beat  well  together  and  pour  the  mixture 


* 


r 


DESSERTS.  133 

into  the  soup  plate  over  the  preserves,  etc.  Bake  in  a  moderately 
warm  oven.  When  cold,  sprinkle  or  sift  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over  the  top.     A  little  cream  eaten  with  it  is  a  great  addition. 

Lemon  Pie,  No.  2. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  white  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonf uls  of  sifted  flour,  and  suf- 
^cient  milk  to  fill  a  plate.  Make  with  undercrust,  but  not  the 
uppercrust.  Bake  till  nearly  done  and  then  add  a  frosting  madc^  of 
the  beaten  whiter  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

^     Mince  Meat. 

One  pint  of  chopped  meat,  two  pints  of  chopped  apples,  one  pint 
each  of  molasses  and  vinegar,  two  pints  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonf  ul 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice,  a  cup  of  chopped  suet  or 
butter,  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  brandy  if  liked.  Add  raisins  when 
the  pies  are  baked. 

Mince  Meat. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  boiled;  when  cold  chop  fine;  one  pound 

of  suet  minced  to  a  powder,  five  pounds  of  juicy  apples,  pared  and 

chopped,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded,  two  pounds  of  sultanas  or 

seedless  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  citron, 

chopped,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 

mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one  tableppoonful  of  fine  salt, 

one  grated  nutmeg,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  gallon 

of  sweet  cider.     Mince  meat  made  by  this   recipe  will  keep  till 

spring. 

Mince  Pie. 

It  is  supposed  you  have  your  meat  ready  for  the  paste.  Make 
the  paste  by  rubbing  into  a  quart  of  your  best  flour  one-third 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  lard;  chop  it  in  with  a  broad  knife,  if  you  have 
time;  wet  up  with  ice  water;  roll  out  very  thin  and  cover  with 
dabs  of  butter,  also  of  the  best;  fold  into  a  tight  roll;  flatten  with 
a  few  strokes  of  the  rolling-pin,  and  roll  out  into  a  sheet  as  thin  as 


134  DESSERTS. 

the  first;  DuHce  again  with  the  bytter;  roll  ap  and  oat  into  a  third 
sheet  hardly  thicker  than  drawing  paper;  a  third  time  dot  with 
batter  and  fold  up  closely.  Haying  used  as  mach  butter  for  this 
purpose  as  you  have  lard,  set  aside  your  roll  for  an  hour  on  ice,  or 
in  a  very  cold  place;  then  roll  out,  line  your  pie  plates  with  the 
paste,  fill  with  mince  meat,  put  strips  across  them  in  squares  or 
triangles  and  bake  in  a  steady  and  not  dull  heat. 

Mince  Pie,  No.  2, 

Boil  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  six  pounds,  and  a  beeFs  tongue 
weighing  six  pounds,  six  hours.  Then  skin  the  tongue,  chop  it  and 
the  beef  fine;  add  five  pounds  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  five  pounds 
raisins  stoned,  three  pounds  dried  currants,  one  and  one-half  pound 
citron,  four  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  pint  good  molasses,  one  quart 
brandy,  one  quart  wine,  or,  omit  these,  and  add  in  their  place 
boiled  cider;  half  a  cup  each  of  salt,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves, 
three  nutmegs  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  mace.  Mix  all  well  together, 
and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Mix  apples  stewed  when  you  make 
the  pies,  as  the  meat  keeps  better  without  apple.  Keep  it  in  a 
stone  jar.  You  should  have  about  a  third  as  much  apple  as  you 
have  of  the  mince  meat  for  a  batch  of  pies. 

Mince  Meat  WrrnouT  Meat. 

Take  nine  lemons,  squeeze  out  tbfc  juice,  boil  the  rinds  and  pulp  • 
(remove  seed)  in  three  or  four  waters  till  bitterness  is  out  and 
rinds  quite  tender;  beat  them  to  a  pulp;  two  and  one-half  pounds 
beef  suet  after  it  is  picked  from  the  skins,  two  pounds  currants 
after  they  are  picked  and  washed,  one  and  one-half  pounds  raisins 
after  they  are  stoned,  two  ounces  almonds,  two  pounds  sugar,  one- 
half  pound  citron,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  one  of  any  kind  of  sweet 
wine;  mix  all  these  ingredients  well  together  with  the  juice  from 
the  lemons,  and  as  many  sweetmeats  as  you  please. 

Marlborough  Pie. 
Grate  six  apples,  one  cup   sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  melted 


DESSERTS.  135 

batter,  fonr  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  brandy  or  wine,  if  you  choose;  if  not,  omit  it.  Bake  in  an 
imder,  but  without  top  crust. 

Orange  Pie. 

Take  four  good-sized  oranges,  peel,  seed,  and  cut  in  very  small 
pieces.  Add  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  let  stand.  Into  a  quart  of  nearly 
boiling  milk  stir  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  com  starch  mixed  with  a 
little  water,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  When  this  is  done, 
let  it  cool,  then  mix  with  the  oranges.  Put  it  in  simply  a  lower 
crust.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  t^e  eggs  and  one-half  cup 
sugar.  Spread  it  over  top  of  pies,  and  place  for  a  few  seconds  iu 
the  oven  to  brown. 

Cbeam  Peach  Pie. 

Pare  ripe  peaches  and  remove  the  stones;  have  your  pie  dishes 
ready  lined  with  a  good  paste,  fill  with  the  peaches;  stew  these 
with  sugar;  lay  the  upper  crust  on  lightly,  slightly  buttering  the 
lower  at  the  point  of  contact.  When  the  pie  is  done,  lift  the  cover 
and  pour  in  a  cream  made  thus:  One  cup  (small)  of  rich  milk, 
heated;  whites  of  two  eggs,  whipped  and  stirred  into  the  milk; 
one  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  com  starch  wet 
up  in  milk.  Boil  three  minutes.  The  cream  must  be  cold  when  it 
goes  into  the  hot  pie.  Replace  the  crust,  and  set  by  to  cool.  Eat 
fresh. 

Pine-Apple  Pie. 

One  granted  pine-apple,  its  weight  in  sugar,  half  its  weight  in 
butter,  ^ye  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup  of 
cream;  cream  the  butter  and  beat  it  with  the  sugar  and  yolks  until 
very  light;  add  the  cream,  the  pine-apple  and  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.     Bake  with  an  under  crust.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Pare  the  pumpkin  and  take  out  the  seeds  without  scraping  the 
inside;  stew  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  To  every  quart  of  milk 
add  ^ye  eggs,  and  stir  the  pumpkin  into  the  milk  and  eggs  until 


136  DESSERTS. 

the  proper  consisteiicy;  sweeten  with  sngar  or  the  best  syrup; 
molasses  makes  it  too  strong.  Add  some  salt,  powdered  cinnamon, 
powdered  ginger  and  the  grated  peel  of  lemon.  Bake  in  either  deep 
or  shallow  dishes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Potato  Pie. 

One  pound  mashed  potato,  rubbed  through  a  colander;  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar;  six  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately;  one  lemon,  squeezed  into  the  potato  while 
hot;  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  the  same  of  mace;  two  cups 
of  white  sugar.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks,  the 
spice,  and  beat  in  the  potato  gradually  until  it  is  very  light.  At 
last,  whip  in  the  whites.     Bake  in  open  shells  of  paste.     Eat  cold. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

A  plate  deeper  than  the  common  pie  plate  is  necessary.  Bake 
medium-sized  potatoes,  not  quite  done.  Yams  are  best.  Line  the 
plate  with  good  paste;  slice  the  potatoes;  place  a  layer  upon  the 
bottom  of  the  plate;  over  this  sprinkle  thickly  a  layer  of  good 
brown  sugar;  over  this  place  thin  slices  of  butter  and  sprinkle  with 
flour,  seasoning  with  spices  to  the  taste.  A  heaped  tablespoonf  ul 
of  butter  and  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour  will  be  sufficient  for  one 
pie.  Put  on  another  layer  of  potatoes,  piled  a  little  in  the  middle. 
Mix  together  equal  quantities  lemon  juice  and  water,  or  vinegar 
and  water  and  pour  in  enough  to  half  fill  the  pie;  sprinkle  over  the 
potato  a  little  flour  and  place  on  the  upper  crust,  pinching  the 
edges  carefully  together.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  center  and  bake  slowly 
an  hour. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie,  No.  2. 

Boil  potatoes  until  tender,  pare  and  put  through  a  colander  or 
sieve.  To  one  pint  of  potato  add  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  and 
from  one  to  two  cups  sugar,  to  suit  taste;  flavor  with  ginger  or 
lemon. 


•N 


DESSERTS.  137 

Apple  ob  Peach  Meringue  Pie. 

Stew  tlie  apples  or  peaches  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Mash  smooth 
and  season  with  nutmeg.  Fill  the  crusts  and  bake  until  just  done. 
Put  on  no  top  crusts.  Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie 
and  whip  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  sweeten  with  three  tablespoonf uls 
powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  rose  water  or  vanilla.  Beat  until  it 
will  stand  alone,  then  spread  it  on  the  pie  one-half  to  one  inch 
thick,  and  set  back  into  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  "  set." 
Eat  cold. 

Peach  Pie. 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  the  peaches;  line  a  pie  plate  with  crust  and 
lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liberally  over  them  in  proportion 
to  their  sweetness.  Allow  three  peach  kernels  chopped  fine  to  each 
pie;  pour  in  a  very  little  water  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or 
with  cross-bars  of  paste  across  the  top. 

Quince  Pie. 

Pare,  slice,  and  stew  six  quinces  till  soft;  press  them  through  a 
sieve;  add  to  them  one  pint  milk  and  four  well-beaten  eggs. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  in  a  bottom  crust  three-fourths  of  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cbeam  Raspberry  Pie. 

line  a  pie-dish  with  puff  paste,  and  fill  with  raspberries,  sweet- 
ened bountifully.  Cover  with  a  paste  crust,  but  do  not  pinch  this 
down  at  the  edges.  Also  rub  the  edge  of  the  lower  crust  with 
butter  to  prevent  adhesion.  Bake  in  a  good  oven.  While  it  is 
cooking,  heat  a  small  cup  of  rich  milk,  putting  in  a  pinch  of  soda; 
stir  into  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  com  starch,  wet  in  cold  milk,  one 
tablespoonf ul  of  white  sugar,  and  cook  three  minutes.  Take  it  off, 
and  beat  in  the  frothed  whites  of  two  eggs.  Whip  to  a  cream,  and 
let  it  get  cold.  When  the'  pie  comes  out  of  the  oven,  lift  the  top 
crust  and  pour  in  the  mixture;  replace  the  crust  and  set  aside  to 
cool;  sift  sugar  upon,  the  top  before  serving. 


138  DESSERTS. 

Raisin  Pik. 

One  lemon — ^juice  and  yellow  rind,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of 
water,  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers;  stone  the  raisins,  and  boil  in 
water  to  soften  them. 

Rhubabb  Pis. 

One  and  one-half  bunches  rhubard,  one  and  one-quarter  cups 
sugar.  Cut  the  fruit  in  small  pieces  after  stripping  off  the  skin, 
and  cook  it  very  fast  in  a  shallow  stewpan,  with  sugar.  Line  a  pie 
plate  with  the  paste;  wet  the  rim;  add  the  rhubarb,  cold;  laj 
three  bars  of  paste  across,  fastening  the  ends;  lay  three  more 
across,  forming  diamond-shaped  spaces;  lay  round  a  rim,  wash 
over  with  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Rice  Pie. 

For  two  pies,  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice;  wash  and  put  it 
into  a  farina  boiler  with  a  quart  of  milk;  cook  until  perfectly  soft. 
Let  it  cool;  add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugiar  and  one  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  cinnamon  and  a  few  stoned 
raisins.     Bake  with  undercrust. 

Squash  Pie. 

Pare  the  squash  and  remove  the  seeds;  stew  until  soft  and  dry; 
then  pulp  it  through  a  colander;  stir  into  the  pulp  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  it  thick  as  batter;  spice  with  ginger,  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg, or  other  seasoning  to  taste;  sweeten  with  sugar  and  add  four 
beaten  eggs  for  each  quart  of  milk.  Fill  a  pie  plate  lined  with 
crust  and  bake  one  hour. 

ViNEGAB  Pies. 

• 

One  and  one-half  cups  good  vinegar,  one  cup  of  water,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to  the  taste;  flavor 
with  lemon;  put  in  stewpan  on  stove;  take  five  eggs,  beat  the  yolks 
with  one  cup  of  water  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour; 
when  the  vinegar  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  eggs  and  flour,  stirring 
till  well  cooked;  have  ready  crust  for  four  pies,  put  in  the  filling 


DESSERTS.  I*d9 

and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar 
to  a  froth,  spread  on  the  pies  wlien  done,  and  color  in  the  oven. 
These  are  excellent. 

Tabts. 

TTse  the  best  of  puff  paste;  roll  it  out  a  little  thicker  than  the  pie 
crust,  and  cut  with  a  large  biscuit-cutter  twice  as  many  as  you 
intend  to  have  of  tarts;  then  cut  out  of  half  of  them  a  small  round,. 
in  the  center,  which  will  leave  a  circular  rita  of  crust;  lift  this  up^ 
carefully,  and  lay  on  the  large  pieces.  Bake  in  pans,  and  fill  with. 
any  kind  of  preserves,  jam,  or  jelly. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

DRINKS. 

Coffee. 

INCE  Pasquet  Bossee  opened  the  first  coffee-house  in  Europe 
in  Newman's  Court,  Comhill,  London,  in  1652,  its  popularity 
has  constantly  increased  until  to>day  those  who  use  it  embrace 
the  whole  world,  and  its  annual  consumption  is  measured  by 
millions  of  pounds.  But  as  common  as  is  its  use,  it  has  not  been 
a  common  occurrence  in  our  experience  to  have  set  before  us  a 
really  good  cup  of  cofFee.  This  fact  convinces  us  that  there  is 
still  much  need  of  information  on  this  subject. 

The  following,  by  H.  K.  &  F.  B.  Thurber  &  Co.,  is  so  appropriate 
that  we  quote  it  in  full : 

"Nothing  is  more  generally  desired  or  appreciated,  nothing 
harder  to  find  than  a  uniformly  good  cup  of  coffee.  Its  production 
is  usually  considered  an  easy  matter,  but  it  involves  the  observance 
of  a  considerable  number  of  conditions  by  a  considerable  number  of 
persons,  and  a  volume  might  be  written  about  these  and  still  leave 
much  to  be  said.  We  will,  however,  briefly  state  the  most  import- 
ant requisites. 

"The  wholesale  dealer  must  exercise  care  and  judgment  in  his 
selections,  as  there  is  almost  as  much  difference  in  the  flavor  of 
•coffee  as  there  is  of  tea;  this  is  especially  true  of  Mocha,  Java, 
Maracaibo,  and  other  fancy  coffees,  of  which  frequently  the  bright- 
est and  handsomest  looking  lots  are  greatly  lacking  in  the  flavor 
and  aroma  which  constitute  the  chief  value  of  coffee,  and  which 
<3an  be  ascertained  only  by  testing  carefully  each  invoice  purchased. 
It  should  be  roasted   by  a  professional   roaster,  as  this  is  a  very 

140 


DRINKS.  ,        141 

important  part  of  the  programme,  and  requires  skill,  experience  and 
constant  practice.  Expert  roasters  are  usually  experienced  men  and 
command  high  salaries.  A  bad  coffee  roaster  is  dear  at  any  price, 
as  the  coffee  may  be  ruined  or  its  value  greatly  injured  by  an  error 
in  judgment  or  an  instant's  inattention.  Owing  to  these  circum- 
stances, in  addition  to  the  fact  that  in  order  to  do  good  work  it  is 
necessary  to  roast  a  considerable  quantity  at  a  time,  none  of  the 
small  hand  machines  produce  uniformly  good  results,  and  they  are 
only  to  be  tolerated  where  distance  makes  it  impossible  for  the 
retail  merchants  to  obtain  regular  and  (when  not  in  air-tight  pack- 
ages) frequent  supplies  of  the  roasted  article.  H(yix>  much  it  should 
be  roasted  is  also  an  important  part  of  the  question.  For  making 
"black"  or  "French"  coffee  it  should  be  roasted  higher  than  usual 
(the  French,  also,  often  add  a  little  chicory),  and  some  sections  are 
accustomed  to  a  higher  roast  than  others,  but  as  a  whole  the  cus- 
tomary New  York  standard  will  best  suit  the  average  American 
palate.  Retail  dealers  should  buy  their  roasted  coffee  of  a  reliable 
house  that  has  a  reputation  to  sustain,  and  that  cannot  be  induced 
to  cut  down  prices  below  what  they  can  afford  to  furnish  an  article 
that  will  do  them  credit.  Do  not  buy  much  at  a  time  (unless  in 
air-tight  packages),  a  week  or  ten  day's  supply  is  enough,  and  if 
you  are  situated  so  you  can  buy  it  twice  a  week,  so  much  the 
better.  Keep  it  in  a  dry  place  and,  if  possible,  in  a  tin  can  which 
shuts  tightly,  never  in  a  pine  box  or  bin,  for  the  smell  of  the  wood 
is  quickly  absorbed  by  the  coffee.  Get  your  customers  in  the  habit 
of  buying  it  in  the  berry,  or,  if  they  have  no  mill  at  home  and  want 
you  to  grind  it  for  them  (every  grocer  should  have  a  mill),  grind  it 
pretty  fine,  so  that  when  used  the  strength  is  readily  extracted,  but 
do  not  sell  them  much  at  a  time,  as  it  is  a  necessity  to  have  it 
freshly  ground. 

"  Consumers  should  adopt  the  above  suggestions  to  retail  dealers 
— ^buy  of  a  reliable  dealer  who  will  not  represent  an  inferior  article 
as  'Java;'  buy  in  small  quantities  and  buy  often;  keep  it  dry  in  a 
tightly  closed  tin  can  or  in  a  glass  or  earthen  jar.     Have  a  small 


142 


DRINKS. 


hand  coffee  mill  and  grind  only  when  ready  to  use  it,  and  if,  daring 
Tainy  weather,  the  kernels  become  damp  and  toagh  warm  them  up 
in  a  clean ^pot  or  skillet  but  do  not  scorch  them;  this  drives  off  the 
moisture,  restores  the  flavor  and  makes  it  grind  better.  The 
grinding  is  an  important  feature;  if  ground  too  coarse  you  lose 
much  of  the  strength  and  aroma  of  the  coffee;  if  too  fine  it  is  hard 
to  make  it  clear,  but  of  the  two  the  latter  is  the  least  objectionable; 
both  the  strength  and  the  flavor  of  the  coffee,  however,  is  a  neces- 
sity, and  if  a  little  of  the  finely  powdered  coffee  flows  out  with  the 
liquid  extract  it  is  clean  and  will  hurt  nobody.  It  is  better,  how- 
ever, to  grind  it  just  right,  which  is  that  the  largest  pieces  will  be 
no  larger  than  pin  heads." 

We  now  come  to  the  important  part  of  making  coffee.  For  this 
there  are  many  receipts  and  formulas,  including  a  large  number  of 
new  and  so-called  improved  coffee-pots,  but  we  have  never  seen  any 
of  the  new  methods  which,  in  the  long  run,  gave  as  satisfactory 
results  as  the  following  old-fashioned  receipt: 

Grind  moderately  fine  a  large  cup  of  coffee;  break  into  it  one 
egg  with  shell;  mix  well,  adding  just  enough  cold  water  to  thor- 
oughly wet  the  grounds;  upon  this  pour  one  pint  boiling  water; 
let  it  boil  slowly  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  stand  three 
minutes  to  settle;  pour  through  a  fine  wire  sieve  into  coffee-pot, 
which  should  be  first  rinsed  with  hot  water;  this  will  make  enough 
for  four  persons.  Coffee  should  be  served  as  soon  as  made.  At 
table,  first  rinse  the  cup  with  hot  water,  put  in  the  sugar,  then  fill 
half  full  of  hot  milk,  add  your  coffee,  and  you  have  a  delicious 
beverage  that  will  be  a  revelation  to  many  poor  mortals  who  have 
an  indistinct  remembrance  of  and  an  intense  longing  for  an  ideal 
cup  of  coffee.  If  you  have  cream  so  much  the  better;  and  in  that 
case  boiling  water  can  be  added  either  in  the  pot  or  cup  to  make  up 
for  the  space  occupied  by  milk,  as  above;  or  condensed  milk  will 
be  found  a  good  substitute  for  cream. 

€fener§d  Remarks, — We  have  thus  briefly  indicated  the  points 
necessary  to  be  observed  in'  obtaining    uniformly  good  coffee, 


DRINKS.  143 

whether  made  from  Rio,  or  Java,  and  other  mild  flavored  coffees. 
In  the  Eastern  and  Middle  States,  Mocha,  Jay%  Maracaibo,  Ceylon, 
etc.,  are  most  highly  esteemed  and  generally  used;  bat  at  the  west 
and  south  more  Rio  coffee  is  consumed.  The  coffee  par  excellence, 
however,  is  a  mixture  of  Mocha  and  Java  together,  and  thus 
thoroughly  blended.  Mocha  alone  is  too  rough  and  acrid,  but, 
blended  as  above,  it  is  certainly  delicious.  In  all  varieties,  how- 
ever, there  is  a  considerable'  range  as  to  quality  and  flavor,  and,  as 
before  stated,  the  best  guide  for  the  consumer  is  to  buy  of  a  reli- 
able dealer  land  throw  upon  his  shoulders  the  responsibility  of  fur- 
nishing a  satisfactory  article. 

Hotels  and  restaurants  that  desire  good  coffee,  should  make  in 
fimall  quantities  and  more  frequently.  It  is  impossible  for  coffee  to 
be  good  when  it  is  kept  simmering  for  hours  after  it  is  made. 

CoFPEB  Substitutes. 

French  cooks,  who  are  celebrated  for  making  good  coffe'8^  mix 
three  or  four  different  kinds,  and  recommend  as  a  good  proportion, 
to  add  to  one  pound  of  Java  about  four  ounces  of  Mocha  and  four 
ounces  of  one  or  two  other  kinds.  It  is  said  that  from  three  parts 
of  Rio,  with  two  parts  of  Old  Government  Java,  a  coffee  can  be 
made  quite  as  good,  if  not  superior,  to  that  made  of  Java  alone. 

Wheat  coffee,  made  of  a  mixture  of  eight  quarts  of  wheat  to  one 
pound  of  real  coffee,  is  said  to  afford  a  beverage  quite  as  agreeable 
as  the  unadultei^ted  Rio,  besides  being  much  more  wholesome.  It 
is  probably  known  to  many  that  a  very  large  per  cent,  of  the 
ground  coffee  sold  at  the  stores  is  common  field  pease,  roasted  and 
ground  with  genuine  coffee.  There  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
bushels  of  peas  annually  used  for  that  purpose.  Those  who  are  in  # 
the  habit  of  purchasing  ground  coffee  can  do  better  to  buy  their 
own  pease,  bum  and  grind  them,  and  mix  to  suit  themselves. 

Novel  Mode  op  Making  Coffee. 

Put  two  ounces  of  ground  coffee  into  a  stewpan,  which  set  upon 
tthe  fire,  stirring  the  powder  around  with  a  spoon  uxitif  quite  hot, 


144  DRINKS. 

when  pour  over  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  cover  over  closely  for 
five  minutes,  when  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  rinjse  out  the  stewpan, 
pour  the  coffee,  which  will  be  quite  clear,  back  into  it,  place  it  on 
the  fire,  and  when  near  boiling,  serve  with  hot  milk. 

Tea. 

We  find  the  following  eminently  sensible  lines  in  SouakhoUt 
Hints : 

One  of  the  most  surprising  things  one  constantly  meets  is  to  find 
that  the  people  who  have  the  same  duties  to  perform,  day  after 
day,  or  year  after  year,  do  not  improve  in  their  method  or  even 
once  blunder  into  the  right  way  of  doing  them.  Nothing  is  more 
easily  made  than  good  tea,  and  yet  how  seldom,  away  from  home, 
does  one  enjoy  delicately  fragrant  tea  which  Hawthorne  calls  '^  an 
angePs  gift "  and  which  Miss  Mitf ord  said  she  could  be  awake  all' 
night  drinking.  The  first  thing  needed  is  a  clean  tea-pot;  it  is. 
useless  to  try  to  make  good  tea  in  a  rusty  pot,  or  one  in  which  the 
leaves  have  been  allowed  to  remain  all  night.  The  water  should 
be  boiling  but  the  tea  itself  should  never  boil.  I  wish  these  words 
could  be  painted  on  the  wall  of  every  hotel  and  restaurant  kitchen 
in  the  United  States.  After  the  boiling  water  has  been  poured 
over  the  tea  set  the  tea-pot  on  an  extra  griddle  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  All  that  is  good  in  the  tea  will  be  gradually  extracted  from 
it;  then  when  brought  to  the  table  one  may  well  echo  De  Quin- 
cey's  wish  for  an  "  eternal  tea-pot,"  though  not  inclined  to  follow 
his  example  of  drinking  it  from  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening  until 
four  o'clock  in  the  morning. 

The  most  satisfactory  steeper  I  ever  used  is  an  old-fashioned 
brown  earthem  tea-pot.  This  may  be  kept  perfectly  clean  with 
almost  no  trouble.  Whatever  may  be  said  of  the  hurtfulness  of 
tea,  when  immoderately  used,  a  cup  of  the  afternoon  tea  so  fre- 
quently mentioned  in  novels  and  essays  is  an  unpurchasable  luxury. 
Hamerton  says  in  "The  Intellectual  Life:"  " If  tea  is  a  safe  stimu- 
lant it  i^  certainly  an  agreeable  one;  there  seems  to  be  no  valid, 
reason  why*brain  workers  should  refuse  themselves  this  solace." 


DRINKS.  145 

Iced  Tea, 

The  tea  should  be  made  in  the  morning,  very  strong,  and  not 
allowed  to  steep  long.  Keep  in  the  ice-box  till  the  meal  is  ready 
and  then  put  in  a  small  quantity  of  cracked  ice.  Very  few  under- 
stand the  art  of  making  iced  tea,  b^.:  pour  the  scalding  hot  tea  on  a 
goblet  of  ice  lumped  in,  and  as  the  ice  melts  the  tea  is  weak,  insipid, 
and  a  libel  on  its  name.  Iced  coffee  is  very  nice  made  in  the  same 
way.  Too  much  ice  is  detrimental  to  health  and  often  causes 
gastric  fever;  so  beware  of  it  when  in  a  heated  state,  or  do  not 
drink  of  it  in  large  quantities. 

A  Good  Summer  Dbink. 

Two  pounds  Catawba  grapes,  three  tablespoonfuls  loaf  sugar, 
one  cup  of  cold  water.  Squeeze  the  grapes  hard  in  a  coarse  cloth, 
when  you  have  picked  them  from  the  stems.  Wring  out  every 
drop  of  juice;  add  the  sugar,  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  the  water, 
surround  with  ice  until  very  cold;  put  a  lump  of  ice  into  a  pitcher, 
pour  out  the  mixture  upon  it,  and  drink  at  once.  You  can  add 
more  sugar  if  you  like,  or  if  the  grapes  are  not  quite  ripe. 

Cottage  Beer. 

Take  a  peck  of  good  wheat  bran  and  put  it  into  ten  gallons  of 
water  with  three  handfuls  of  good  hops,  and  boil  the  whole 
together  until  the  bran  and  hops  sink  to  the  bottom.  Then  strain 
it  through  a  hair  sieve  or  a  thin  cloth  into  a  cooler,  and  when  it  is 
about  lukewarm  add  two  quarts  of  molasses.  As  soon  as  the 
molasses  is  melted,  pour  the  whole  into  a  ten-gallon  cask,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  When  the  fermentation  has  subsided^ 
bung  up  the  caak,  and  in  four  days  it  will  be  fit  to  use. 

Ginger  Beer. 

Boil  six  ounces  of  bruised  ginger  in  three  quarts  of  water,  for 
half  an  hour;  then  add  five  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  a  gill  of  lemon 
juice,  quarter  pound  of  honey,  and  seventeen  quarts  more  of  water^ 


146  DRINKS. 

and  strain  it  through  a  cloth.  When  it  is  cold  put  in  the  whole  of 
an  egg,  and  two  drachms  bf  essence  of  lemon.  After  standing 
three  or  four  days,  it  may  be  bottled. 

Spbucb  Beeb. 

Take  four  ounces  of  hops,  boil  half  an  hour  in  one  gallon  of 
water;  strain  it;  add  sixteen  gallons  of  warm  water,  two  gallons 
of  molasses,  eight  ounces  of  essence  of  spruce  dissolved  in  on^  quart 
of  water;  put  it  in  a  clean  cask,  shake  it  well  together,  add  half 
pint  of  yeast,  let  it  stand  and  work  one  week;  if  warm  weather, 
less  time  will  do.  When  drawn  off,  add  one  teaspoonf ul  of  molasses 
to  each  bottle. 

Iced  Buttermilk. 

There  is  no  healthier  drink  than  buttermilk,  but  it  must  be  the 
creamy,  rich  buttermilk  to  be  good.  It  should  stand  on  the  ice  to 
cool,  though  if  very  rich  and  thick  a  little  ice  in  it  is  an  improve* 
ment. 

Claret  Cup. 

Put  into  a  bowl  three  bottles  of  soda  water,  and  one  bottle  of 
claret.  Pare  a  lemon  very  thin  and  grate  a  nutmeg;  add  to  these, 
in  a  jug,  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  one  pint  of 
boiling  water;  when  cold,  strain  and  mix  with  the  wine  and  soda 
water;  a  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added. 

Fruit  Cup. 

Pare  the  yellow  rind  very  thinly  from  twelve  lemons;  squeeze 
the  juice  over  it  in  an  earthem  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  over  night  if 
possible.  Pare  and  slice  thinly  a  very  ripe  pine-apple,  and  let  it  lay 
over  night  in  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Crush  one  quart  of 
berries,  and  let  them  lay  over  night  in  half  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar.  If  all  these  ingredient  cannot  be  prepared  the  day  before 
they  are  used,  they  must  be  done  very  early  in  the  morning, 
because  the  juices  of  the  fruit  need  to  be  incorporated  with  the 
sugar  at  least  twelve  hours  before  the  beverage  is  used.    After  all 


DRINKa  147 

the  ingredients  hare  been  properly  prepared,  as  above,  sti%in  off 
the  joice,  carefully  pressing  all  of  it  out  of  the  fruit;  mix  it  with 
two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar'  and  three  quarts  of  ice  water,  and 
stir  it  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  strain  it  again  through 
a  muslin  or  bolting-cloth  sieve,  and  put  it  on  the  ice  or  in  a  very 
cool  place  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 

Cream  op  Tabtab  Dbink. 

Two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
half  a  cup  of  loaf  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  This  is  a 
good  summer  drink  for  invalids,  and  is  cleansing  to  the  blood. 

Jelly  Dbinks. 

A  little  jelly  or  fruit  syrup  dissolved  in  a  goblet  of  water  with  a 
little  sugar  is  a  refreshing  drink.  Lime  juice  squeezed  into  lemon- 
ade gives  it  a  tart  but  pleasing  flavor.  A  little  orange  juice  is  also 
an  improvement  in  nearly  all  summer  drinks. 

Simon  Pube  Lemonade. 

Take  thin-skinned  lemons;  roll  them  on  the  table  until  very  soft; 
slice  very  thin  with  a  sharp  knife  into  a  large  pitcher,  averaging 
one  lemon  to  a  person,  thus  allowing  them  two  glasses  apiece.  Put 
in  the  pitcher  with  the  sliced  lemon  a  cup  of  white  sugar  to  five 
lemons  (or  more  if  yow  want  it  sweeter)  and  pound  all  well  together 
with  a  potato  masher;  put  in  a  lump  of  ice;  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes  and  fill  the  pitcher  with  ice  water.  This  makes  lemonade 
that  is  lemonade,  and  the  peel  in  the  pitcher  is  delicious. 

Jelly  Lemonade. 

Pare  the  yellow  rind  thinly  from  two  oranges  and  six  lemons 
and  steep  it  four  hours  in  a  quart  of  hot  water.  Boil  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  loaf  sugar  in  three  pints  of  water,  skimming  it  until  it  is 
clear.  Pour  these  two  mixtures  together.  Add  to  them  the  juice 
of  six  oranges  and  twelve  lemons,  mix  and  strain  through  a  jelly- 
bag  Hntil  clear;  keep  cool  until  wanted  for  use.     If  the  beverage  Ib 


148  DRINKS.     * 

to  be  kept  several  days,  it  should  be  put  into  clean  glass  bottles  and 
corked  tightly.  If  for  a  small  party,  half  of  the  quantity  will  be 
sufficient. 

GiNGEB  Lemonade. 

Take  a  half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonf  uls 
ginger;  stir  well  together,  put  in  a  quart  pitcher  and  fill  with  ice 
water.     If  one  wants  it  sweeter  or  sourer  than  these  quantities  will  ' 
make  it,  more  of  the  needed  ingredients  may  be  put  in.     It  is  a 
cooling  drink  and  almost  as  good  as  lemonade,  some  preferring  it. 

Bebbt  Shebbet. 

Crush  one  pound  of  berries,  add  them  to  one  quart  of  -water,  one 
lemon  sliced,  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  orange  flavor,  if  you  have  it. 
Let  these  ingredients  stand  in  an  eai*thcn  bowl  for  three  hours;  then 
strain,  squeezing  all  the  juice  out  of  the  fruit.  Dissolve  one  pound 
of  powdered  sugar  in  it,  strain  again,  and  put  on  the  ice  until  ready 
to  serve. 

Excellent  Mead. 

Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one-fourth 
pound  tartaric  acid;  mix,  pour  over  them  two  quarts  boiling  water, 
stir  till  dissolved.  When  cold,  add  half  ounce  essence  sassafras 
and  bottle.  When  you  wish  to  drink  it,  put  three  tablespoonf  uls 
of  it  in  a  tumbler,  fill  half  full  with  ice  water,  ad<l  a  little  more 
than  one-fourth  teaspoonful  soda.     An  excellent  summer  beverage. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

EGGS  AND  OMELETTES,. 

G6S  of  various  kinds  are  largely  used  as  food  for  man,  and  it 
is  scarcely  possible  to  exaggerate  their  value  in  this  capacity, 
so  simple  and  convenient  are  they  in  their  form  and  so  mani- 
fold may  be  their  transformations;  They  are  exceedingly  delicious, 
hi<yhly  nutritious  and  easy  of  digestion,  and  when  the  shell  is 
included  they  may  be  said  to  contain  in  themselves  all  that  is 
required  for  the  construction  of  the  body.  It  has  been  claimed  for 
them  that  they  may  be  served  in  about  six  hundred  ways,  although 
it  is  generally  found  that  the  more  simply  they  are  prepared  the 
more  they  are  approved.  Although  other  eggs  be&ides  birds'  eggs 
are  eaten  it  is  generally  agreed  that  the  eggs  of  the  common  fowl 
and  of  the  plover  possess  the  sweetest  and  richest  flavor.  The 
eggs  of  ducks  and  geese  are  frequently  used  in  cookery,  but  they 
are  of  too  coarse  a  nature  to  be  eaten  alone.  The  eggs  of  the 
turkey  and  of  the  peahen  are  highly  esteemed  for  some  purposes* 
The  weight  of  an  ordinary  new-laid  hen's  egg  is  from  one  and  a 
half  to  two  and  a  half  ounces  avoirdupois,  and  the  quantity  of  solid 
matter  contained  in  it '  amounts  to  two  hundred  grains.  In  one 
hundred  parts  about  ten  parts  consist  of  shell,  sixty  of  white  and 
thirty  of  yolk.  The  white  of  the  egg  contains  more  water  than  the 
yolk.  It  contains  no  fatty  matter  but  consists  chiefly  of  albumen 
in 'a  dissolved  state.  All  the  fatty  matter  of  the  egg  is  accumulated 
in  the  yolk,  which  Contains  relatively  a  smaller  proportion  of  nitro- 
genous matter  and  a  larger  proportion  of  solid  matter  than  the 
white.     Therefore,  in  an  alimentary  point  of  view  the  white  and 

149 


160  EGGS  AND  OMELETTES. 

the  yolk  differ  considerably  from  each  other,  the  former  being, 
mainly  a  simple  solution  of  albumen,  the  latter  being  a  solution  of 
a  modified  form  of  albumen  together  with  a  quantity  of  fat. 

Raw  and  lightly  boiled  eggs  are  easy  of  digestion.  It  is  said 
that  raw  eggs  are  more  easily  digested  than  cooked  ones;  but  this 
may  be  doubted  if  the  egg  is  not  over-cooked.  A  hard-boiled  egg 
presents  a  decided  resistance  to  gastric  solution,  and  has  constipa- 
tory  action  on  the  bowels. 

Bbeaded  Eggs. 

Boil  hard  and  cut  in  round,  thick  slices;  pepper  and  salt  and  dip 
each  in  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs  or  powdered 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter,  hissing  hot.  Drain  off  every 
drop  of  grease  and  serve  hot. 

Egg  a  la.  Mods. 

Remove  the  skin  from  a  dozen  tomatoes,  medium  size,  cut  them 
up  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  suffi- 
ciently boiled,  beat  up  five  or  six  eggs,  and  just  before  you  serve, 
turn  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  tomato,  and  stir  one  way  for 
two  minutes,  allowing  them  time  to  be  well  done. 

How  TO  Bake  Eggs. 
Butter  a  clean,  smooth  saucepan,  break  as  many  eggs  as  will  be 
needed  into  a  saucer,  one  by  one.  If  found  good,  slip  it  into  the 
dish.  No  broken  yolk  allowed,  nor  must  they  crowd  so  as  to  risk 
breaking  the  yolk  after  being  put  in.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
each,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  •  Set  into  a»  well-heated 
oven,  and  bake  till  the  whites  are  set.  If  the  oven  is  rightly  heated, 
it  will  take  but  ,a  few  minutes,  and  is  far  more  delicate  than  fried 

eggs. 

Egg  Baskets. 

Boil  quilte  hard  as  many  eggs  as  will  be  needed.  Put  into  cold 
water  till  cold,  then  cut  neatly  into  halves  with  a  thin,  sharp  knife; 
remove  the  yolk  and   rub  to   a  paste  with  some   melted  butter. 


EGGS  AND  OMELETTES.  161 

adding  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  up  this  paste  and  set  aside  till  the 
filling  is  ready.  Take  cold  roast  duck,  chicken,  or  turkey  which 
may  be  on  hand,  chop  fine  and  pound  smooth,  and  while  pounding 
mix  in  the  paste  prepared  from  the  yolks.  As  you  pound  moisten 
with  melted  butter  and  some  gravy  which  may  have  been  left  over 
from  the  fowls;  set  this  paste  when  done  over  hot  water  till  well 
heated.  Cut  off  a  small  slice  from  the  end  of  the  empty  halves  of 
the  whites  so  they  will  stand  firm,  then  fill  them  with  this  paste; 
place  them  close  together  on  a  flat,  round  dish,  and  pour  over  the 
rest  of  the  gravy,  if  any  remains,  or  make  a  little  fresh.  A  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk  improves  this  dressing. 

To  PicKLK  Eggs.  • 

Sixteen  eggs,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of  black 
pepper,  one-half  ounce  Jamaica  pepper,  one-half  ounce  of  ginger; 
boil  the  eggs  twelve  minutes;  dip  in  cold  water  and  take  off  the 
shell;  put  the  vinegar  with  the  pepper  and  ginger  into  a  stew  pan 
and  simmer  ten  minutes;  place  the  eggs  in  a  jar,  pour  over  the 
seasoned  vinegar  boiling  hot,  and  when  cold  tie  them  down  with  a 
bladder  to  exclude  the  air;  ready  for  use  in  a  month. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Heat  the  spider  and  put  in  a  little  butter;  have  the  eggs  broken 
into  a  dish,  salt  and  pepper  them;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
beat  up  just  enough  to  break  the  eggs,  then  pour  into  the  buttered 
spider;  scrape  them  up  from  the  bottom  with  a  thin  knife  to 
prevent  their  cooking  fast.     Do  not  cook  too  dry. 

To  Poach  Eggs. 

Have  the  water  well  salted,  and  do  not  let  it  boil  hard.  Break  the 
eggs  separately  into  a  saucer,  and  slip  gently  into  the  water;  when 
nicely  done,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  trim  neatly,  and  lay  each  egg 
upon  a  small  thin  square  of  buttered  toast,  then  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Some  persons  prefer  them  poached,  rather  than  fried^ 
with  ham;  in  which  case  substitute  the  ham  for  toast. 


162  EGGS  AND  OMELETTES. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  remove  the  shells,  and  then  cut  in  two  either 
way,  as  preferred.  Remove  the  yolks,  and  mix  with  them  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  dry  mustcrd — some  like  cold  chicken,  ham,  or 
tongue  chopped  very  fine — ^and  then  stuff  the  cavities,  smooth  .them, 
and  put  the  halves  together  again.  For  picnics  they  can  simply  be 
wrapped  in  tissue  paper  to  keep  them  together.  If  for  home  use, 
they  can  be  egged,  and  bread-crumbed,  and  browned  in  boiling 
lard;  drain  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Omblette. 

First  have  fresh  eggs,  not  omelette  eggs  (in  restaurants  all  eggs 
that  will  not  in  any  way  do  to  boil,  are  put  aside  for  omelettes), 
break  the  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  to  every  egg  add  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
milk  and  whip  the  whole  as  >  thoroughly  as  you  would  for  sponge 
cake.  The  omelette  pan  must  be  so  hot  that  butter  will  melt  almost 
brown  in  it  but  not  quite.  Then  run  the  whipped  egg  and  nodlk 
into  the  pan  and  put  it  directly  over  the  fire.  Take  a  thin-bladed 
knife  and  run  it  carefully  under  the  bottom  of  the  omelette  so  as  to 
let  that  which  is  cooked  get  above.  If  the  fire  is  right  the  whole 
mass  will  swell  and  puff  and  cook  in  just  about  one  minute.  Watch 
carefully  that  it  does  not  bum.  It  is  not  necessary  to  wait  till  the 
whole  mass  is  solid  as  its  own  heat  will  cook  it  after  it  has  left  the 
pan,  but  begin  at  one  side  and  carefully  roll  the  edge  over  and  over 
till  it  is  all  rolled  up,  then  let  it  stand  a  moment  to  brown.  Turn 
Dut  on  a  hot  plate  and  serve  inmiediately. 

Omelette,  No.  2. 

Six  eggs,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  beat  tb^  whites  and  yolks  separately;  mix  the  flour,  milk  and 
salt,  add  the  yolks,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Have  a  buttered 
spider  very  hot;  put  in.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  five  minutes. 


i*^' 


EGGS  AKD  OMBLETTEa  153 

AppLB  Omklbttb. 

Eight  large  ailples,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  Bugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste.  Stew  the  apples  and 
mash  fine;  add  butter  and  sugar;  when  cold,  add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten.    Bake  until  brown,  and  ieat  while  warm. 

Baked  Ohslette. 

Set  one-half  pint  of  milk  on  the  fire  and  stir  in  one-half  cup  of 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  salt;  when  scalding  hot,  beat 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  add  them;  stir  in  whites  and  set  imme- 
diately in  the  oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  as  soon  as 
done. 

Oyster  Omelette. 

Allow  for  every  six  large  oysters  or  twelve  small  ones,  one  egg; 
remove  the  hard  part  and  mince  the  rest  very- fine;  take  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  and  whites  of  four,  beat  till  very  light;  then  mix  in 
the  oysters,  season  and  beat  all  up  thoroughly;  put  into  a  skillet  a 
gill  of  butter,  let  it  melt;  when  the  butter  boils,  skim  it  and  turn 
in  the  omelette;  stir  until  it  stiffens,  fry  light  brown;  when  the 
under  side  is  brown,  turn  on  to  a  hot  platter.  If  wanted  the  upper 
4aide  brown,  hold  a  red-hot  shovel  over  it. 

Omelette  Soxtffle. 

Stir  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  into  three  pints  of  milk, 
«tram  through  a  sieve;  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  very 
light,  and,  just  as  it  goes  into  the  oven,  the  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  qaicHy. 

French  Omelette. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  bread  tjrumbs,  five  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  chopped  parsley,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  butter  melted  in  a  spider;  when  the 
omelette  is  brown,  turn  it  over.     Double  when  served. 


154  EGGS  AND  OMBLBTTES. 

Ohelbttb  with  Ham. 

Make  a  plain  omelette,  and  just  before  turning  one-half  over  the- 

other,  aprinJde  over  it  some  finely  chopped   ham.     Garmsh   vitil 

fimatl  slices  of  ham.    Jelly  or  marmalade  may  be  added  in  the  same 

mamier. 

Eqgs  a  Ul  Bonkb  Fsmhb. 

Take  six  Iftige  eggs,  boil  them  ten  minutes;  when  cool,  remove  the 

ahells  carefully;  divide  them  equally  in  halves,  take  out  the  yolks,  and 

cut  off  from  each  the  pointed 

tip  of  the  white,  that  they 

may  stand  flatly.    Make  tiny 

k  dioe  of  some  cold  chicken, 

'  ham,  boiled  beet  root,  and 

the  eggs.     Fill  the  hollows 

with  these  up  to  the  brim, 

and  pile  the  dioe  high  in  the  center — two  of  ham  and  chicken,  two 

of  boiled  beetroot,  and  two  with  the  hard  yolks.     Arrange  some 

neatly  cut  lettuce  on  a  dish  aad  place  the  eggs  amongst  it. 


CHAPTER   X. 

FRESH   FRUITS. 

Pine  Apples. 

[CE  on  a  slaw  cutter,  or  very  thin  with  a  knife;  mix  with 
finely-powdered  sugar.     Set  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Pbepabe  Apples. 

Pare  a  dozen  tart  apples,  take  out  the  core,  place  sugar,  with  a 
small  lump  of  butter,  in  the  center  of  each  apple,  put  them  in  a  pan 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  bake  until  tender,  basting  occasionally 
with  the  syrup  while  baking;  when  done,  serve  with  cream. 

To  Stew  Apples. 

« 

One  pound  sugar  boiled  in  one  quart  of  spring  water  and 
skimmed,  one  pound  of  the  largest  pippins,  cut  in  quarters  and  the 
cores  taken  out.  Have  the  syrup  boiling;  when  you  put  them  in 
let  them  stew  till  they  are  quite  tender,  then  add  the  juice  of  two 
large  lemons,  and  the  peel  cut  small;  give  them  a  few  more  boils 
after  the  lemons  are  put  in.  If  you  want  them  to  keep  all  the  year, 
the  syrup  must  be  well  boiled  after  the  apples  are  taken  out.  As 
you  peel  the  apples  fling  them  into  cold  water. 

Bananas  and  Cream. 

Peel,  slice,  and  heap  up  in  a  glass  dessert-dish,  and  serve  raw^ 
with  fine  sugar  and  cream. 

To  Cbystallizb  Fruit. 

Pick  out  the  finest  of  any  kind  of  fruit — ^leave  in  the  stones; 
beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  lay  the  fruit  in  the 

156 


166  FRESH  FRUITS. 

beaten  eggy  with  the  stems  upward;  drain  them  and  beat  the  part 

that  drips  off  again;  select  them  out,  one  by  one,  a*-  1  dip  them  into 

fr  oup  of  finely-powdered  sugar;  cover  a  pan  '** '      a  sheet  of  fine 

paper,  place  the  fruit  on  it,  and  set  it  in  a  Lkj.a  oven;  when  the 

icing  on  the  fruit  becomes  firm,  pile  them  on  a  dish,  and  set  them 

in  a  cold  place. 

To  ExEP  Grapes. 

Select  nice  fresh  clusters,  and  cut  the  end  of  the  stem  smooth 
and  dip  it  into  melted  sealing  wax;  then  put  it  in  cotton  batting; 
pack  them  away  in  wooden  boxes;  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place. 
In  this  way  they  will  keep  fresh  all  winter.  Another  way — Take 
full  bunches,  ripe  and  perfect;  seal  the  end  that  is  cut  from  the 
vine  so  that  no  air  can  get  in,  or  the  juice  of  the  stem  run  out,  and 
let  them  stand  one  day  after  sealed,  so  as  to  be  perfectly  sure  they 
are  sealed  (if  not  they  will  shrivel  up) ;  then  pack  in  boxes  of  dry 
sawdust  and  keep  in  a  cool  place;  they  will  keep  nicely  all  winter 
without  losing  their  flavor;  in  packing,  do  not  crowd  the  bunches; 
sprinkle  the  sawdust  over  the  bottom  of  the  box,  then  lay  the 
grapes  carefully,  a  bunch  at  a  time,  all  over  the  box,  then  sawdust 
and  grapes  alternately  until  the  box  is  full. 

Melons. 
Melons  are  much  nicer  if  kept  on  ice  until  time  for  serving.  Cut 
off  a  slice  at  each  end  of  the  water-melon,  then  cut  through  the 
center;  stand  on  end  on  platter.  Cantaloupe  melons  should  have 
the  seeds  removed  before  sending  to  the  table.  Eat  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  strained  honey  in  each  half  of  melon. 

Oranges. 
Slice,  mix  with  powdered  sugar,  and  strew  grated  cocoa-nut  over 
the  top.     Are   also  nice   served  whole,  the   skins  quartered  and 
turned  down.     Form  in  a  pyramid  with  bananas  and  white  grapes. 

Candied  Cherries. 
Two  quarts  large,  ripe,  red  cherries,  stoned  carefully;  two  pounds 
loaf  sugar,  one  cup  water.     llf  ake  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water 


FRESH  Bruits.  167 

and  boil  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  '^  pull/'  as  for  candy*  Remove 
to  the  side  of  the  range,  and  stir  until  it  shows  signs  of  granula^ 
tion.  It  is  well  to  stir  frequently  while  it  is  cooking,  to  secure  this 
end«  When  there  are  grains  or  crystals  on  the  spoon,  drop  in  the 
cherries,  a  few  at  a  time.  Let  each  supply  lie  in  the  boiling  syrup 
two  minutes,  when  remove  to  a  sieve  set  over  a  dish.  Shake  geJhtly 
but  long,  then  turn  the  cherries  out  upon  a  cool,  broad  dish,  and 
dry  in  a  sunny  window. 

Stewed  Peabs. 

Peel  pears.  Place  them  in  a  little  water,  with  sugar,  cloves; 
cinnamon  and  lemon  peeL  Stew  gently,  and  add  one  glass  of  cider. 
Dish  up  cold« 

6lac&  Chebbies. 

Make  as  above,  but  do  not  let  the  syrup  granulate.  It  should 
not  be  stirred  at  all,  but  when  it  "  ropes  "  pour  it  over  the  cherries, 
which  should  be  spread  out  upon  a  large  fiat  dish.  When  the 
syrup  is  almost  cold,  take  these  out,  one  by  one,  with  a  teaspoon^ 
and  spread  upon  a  dish  to  dry  in  the  open  air.  If  nicely  managed, 
these  are  nearly  as  good  as  those  put  up  by  professional  confec- 
tioners.    Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Candied  Lemon-Peel. 

Twelve  fresh,  thick-skinned  lemons,  four  pounds  loaf  suglu*,  a 
little  powdered  alum,  three  cups  clear  wat6r.  Cut  the  peel  from 
the  lemons  in  long,  thin  strips,  and  lay  in  strong  salt  and  water  all 
night.  Wash  them  in  three  waters  next  morning,  and  boil  them 
until  tender  in  soft  water.  They  should  be  almost  translucent,  but 
not  so  soft  as  to  break.  Dissolve  a  little  alum — about  half  a  tea- 
spoonful,  when  powdered — ^in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  peel, 
and  let  it  lie  in  it  for  two  hours.  By  this  time  the  syrup  should  be 
ready.  Stir  the  sugar  into  three  cups  of  water,  add  the  strained 
juice  of  three  lemons  and  boil  it  until  it  "ropes''  from  the  end  of 
the  spoon.     Put  the  lemon-peels  into  this,  simmer  gently  half  an 


168  FRESH  FRUIT& 

hoar;  take  them  ont  and  spread  upon  a  sieve.  Shake,  not  hard, 
but  of  ten,  tossing  np  the  peels  now  and  then,  until  thej  are  almost 
dry.  Sift  granulated  sugar  over  them  and  lay  out  upon  a  table 
spread  with  a  clean  cloth.  Admit  the  air  freely,  and,  when  per- 
fectly dry,  pack  in  a  glass  jar. 


CHAPTER   XI. 


CANNING    FRUIT. 


OB  the  benefit  of  those  thrifty  housewives  who  have  frnit  of 
their  own  which  fhey  wish  to  save,  or  who  think  that  any 
preparation  of  food  made  outside  of  the  home  kitchen,  and 
branded  "factory  make,"  should  be  considered  "common  and 
andean,"  we  appen,d  a  few  recipes  which  will  be  found  in  every 
way  satisfactory. 

The  canning  industry  has  grown  within  the  few  years  of  its 
existence  to  such  enormous  dimensions  and  includes  so  great  a 
variety  of  articles,  and  competition  is  so  sharp  among  the  different 
firms  who  make  it  a  specialty,  that  in  point  of  expense  it  is  cheaper 
to  buy  on  the  market  than  to  purchase  the  fruit  and  be  to  the 
trouble  and  further  expense  of  canning  it  at  home. 

There  is,  probably,  no  one  thing  which  has  done  more  to  drive 
stem  winter  beyond  the  threshold  than  this  simple  but  late-discov- 
ered process  of  keeping  fruit  fresh  by  excluding  the  air,  and  there 
is  genuine  satisfaction  in  contemplating  the  rows  of  cans  filled  with 
the  different  kinds  of  fruit,  showing  clear  and  distinct  through  the 
glass,  and  we  are  conservative  enough  to  hope  that  the  time  will 
not  come  when  the  business  of  canning  fruit  shall  be  relegated, 
entirely,  into  the  hands  of  the  mercenary  factory  owner  with  his 
tin  can  with  its  overdrawn  label. 

Oenxbal  Dibeotions. 

First.  See  that  the  cans  and  elastics  are  perfect  and  that  the 
«crew  fits  properly.    Second.'  Have  fruit  boiling  hot  when  sealed. 

1S9 


160 


CANNING  FRUIT. 


Have  pan  on  stove  in  which  each  empty  can  is  set  to  be  filled  after 
it  is  rolled  In  hot  water.  Fill  can  to  overflowing,  put  on  the  top" 
qoickly,  screw  tightly;  as  contents  cool,  screw  again  and  again,  ta 
keep  tight.  Third.  Use  glass  cans,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark,  but 
dry  place.     light  spoils  them. 


Table  fob  Canning  Pbuit. 


Apricots 

Sour  Apples 

Crab  Apples 

Blackberries. 

Gooseberries 

Raspberries. 

Huckleberries.,  w. . 

Strawberries 

Cherries 

Currants , 

WUd  Grapes 

Sour  Pears,  whole. 

BarUeU  Pears 

Peaches,  in  halves. 

Plums 

Peaches,  whole 

Pine-apple,  sliced. . 

Tomatoes 

Quinces. 

Rhubarb 


Time  for 

boiling 

fruit. 

10  min. 
10     " 
25 

6 

8 

6 

5 

a 

5 

e 

10 
80 
20 
8 
10 
15 
15 
80 
80 
10 


•  c 
(t 
l< 
«( 
« 

« 
c< 
«( 
<( 
fl 
(( 
I< 
f  I 
(( 
(f 
«( 
<f 


Qiutntity 

ofRURar 

perqU 

8   OZ. 

e  ' 

8 

6 

8 

4 

4 

8 

6 

8 

8 

8 

6 

4 

8 

4 

6 

0 
10 
10 


Apple  Sauce. 

Ready  for  table  use  or  for  pies  may  be  kept  till  apples  are  out  of 
the  market  by  putting  it  into  hot  jars  and  sealing  at  once. 

Canned  Pine-apple. 

Pare  the  fruit  and  be  "^'ery  particular  to  cut  out  the  eyes;  chop 
fine  and  weigh  it;  add  to  it  the  same  weight  of  sugal-;  mix  thor> 
oughly  in  a  large  crock;   let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  pat 


CANNING  PRXHT.  161 

into  cans,  filling  them  full,  and  seal  tight.  After  leaving  them 
about  two  weeks  it  is  well  to  see  if  there  are  any  signs  of  working; 
if  so,  ponr  into  a  kettle  and  heat  through  and  replace  in  the  cans. 

Caknsd  Pine-applb,  No.  2. 

Three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  allowing  one 
cup  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Pick  the  pine-apple  to  pieces 
with  a  silyer  fork;  scald  and  can  hot. 

Canned  Bebbies. 

Heat  slowly  to  boiling  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  when  they  begin  to 
boil,  add  sugar  according  to  table  above.  Before  doing  this,  how- 
ever, if  there  is  much  juice  in  the  kettle,  dip  out  the  surplus  and 
save  for  jelly;  it  will  only  increase  the  number  of  cans.  Leave  the 
berries  almost  dry  before  putting  in  the  sugar,  this  will  make  syrup 
enough.    Boil  all  together  and  can. 

Canned  Peaks. 

Prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  water  and  one-fourth  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  fruit.  While  this  is  heating  peel  the  pears, 
dropping  each  as  it  is  pared  into  a  pan  of  clear  water.  ^  When  the 
syrup  has  come  to  a  fast  boil,  put  in  the  pears  carefully  and  boil 
until  they  look  clear  and  can  be  easily  pierced  by  a  fork.  Have  the 
cans  ready  rolled  in  hot  water;  pack  with  the  pears  and  fill  to  over^ 
flowing  with  the  scalding  syrup,  which  must  be  kept  on  the  fire  all 
the  while,  and  seal.  The  tougher  and  more  common  pears  must  be 
boiled  in  water  until  tender,  and  thrown  while  warm  into  the  hot 
syrup,  then  allowed  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  they  are  canned. 

Canned  Peaches. 

Pare,  cut  in  half  and  stone,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  fruit; 
drop  each  piece  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  it  is  pared.  Allow  a 
heaping  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  scattering  it 
between  the  layers.  Fill  your  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boiL 
BoU  three  minutes,  until  every  piece  of  fruit  is  heated  through. 


162  CANNING  FRUIT. 

Can  and  sesL    Put  a  cup  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle 
before  packing  it  with  fruit,  lest  the  lower  layer  should  bum. 

Dbied  Peaches. 

Peaches,  as  usually  dried,  are  a  very  good  fruit;  but  can  be  made 
yastly  better  if  treated  the  right  way.  Last  season,  the  recipe 
which  had  quite  a  circulation  in  the  papers,  of  drying  the  fruit  by 
a  stove  after  halving  it,  and  sprinkling  a  little  sugar  into  the  cavity 
left  by  the  extracted  pits,  was  tried  in  our  family.  The  fruit  was 
found  to  be  most  excellent;  better  to  the  taste  of  nine  out  of  ten 
persons,  than  any  other  peach  preserves,  by  far.  The  peaches, 
however,  were  good  ones  before  drying;  for  it  is  doubtful  whether 
poor  fruit  can  be  made  good  by  that  process  or  any  other. 


i 


CHAPTER  XII. 

ICES    AND    ICE-CREAMS. 

!SE  only  the  best  materials  for  making  and  flavoring  if  good 
ice-cream  is  desired,  and  avoid  using  milk  thickened  with 
arrow-rooty  com  starch  or  any  other  farinaceous  substance. 
Pure  cream,  ripe  natural  fruits,  or  the  extracts  of  the  same,  and 
fiugar  of  the  purest  quality,  combine  to  make  a  perfect  ice-cream. 
In  the  first  place  secure  a  good  ice-cream  freezer.  Of  these  several 
are  made.  '  Without  recommending  any  particular  make,  we  would 
suggest  one  be  secured  working  with  a  crank  and  revolving  dashers. 
Kext  secure  an  ice  tub  not  less  than  eight  inches  greater  in  diame- 
ter than  the  ifreezer.  See  that  it  has  a  hole  in  the  side  near  the 
bottom,  with  a  plug,  which  can  be  drawn^  at  pleasure,  to  let  off 
water  accumulating  from  melting  ice.  Qet  a  spatula  of  hard  wood 
— ^not  metal — ^with  a  blade  about  twelve  inches  long  and  four  or 
five  inches  wide  and  oval  shaped  at  the  end.  This  is  used  to  scrape 
off  cream  which  may  adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  freezer  in  the  process 
of  freezing,  also  for  working  fruits  and  flavorings  into  the  cream. 
A  smaller  spade  is  also  necessary  for  mixing  ice  and  salt  together, 
and  for  depositing  this  mixture  in  the  intervening  space  between 
can  and  ice  tub.  Ice  must  be  pounded  fine  in  a  coarse,  strong  bag. 
To  freeze  the  cream  after  it  has  been  flavored,  first  pound  up  ice 
and  mix  with  it  a  quantity  of  coarse  salt,  in  the  proportion  of  one- 
third  the  qusMitity  of  salt  to  the  amount  of  ice  used.  Put  freezing 
can  in  center  of  tub,  taking  care  that  the  lid  is  securely  fastened  on^ 
and  pile  the  mixed  ice  and  salt  around  it  on  inside  of  tub  to  within 
three  inches  of  top.     First  turn  the  crank  slowly,  and  as  the  cream 

168 


164  ICES  AND  ICE-CREAMS. 

hardens  increase  the  speed  until  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  con- 
gealed and  the  revolving  dashers  are  frozen  in.  Remove  the  lid, 
take  out  the  dashers,  cut  away  the  cream  which  has  adhered  to  the 
sides  and  proceed  to  work  the  mixture  with  the  spatula  until  it  i& 
smooth  and  soft  to  the  tongue.  .  Re-insert  the  dashers,  cover  the 
can  again,  and  work  the  crank  until  the  entire  contents  are  hard 
and  well  set.     It  is  now  ready  to  be  served. 

Berst  Cbbam. 

'Any  kind  of  berries  may  be  used  for  this,  strawberries  being  the 
nicest.  Mash  with  a  potato  masher  in  an  earthen  bowl,  one  quart 
of  berries  with  one  pound  of  sugar;  rub  it  through  the  colander; 
add  one  quart  sweet  cream  and  freeze.  Very  ripe  peaches  or 
mashed  apples  may  be  used  instead  of  the  berries. 

BUBNT  SUGAB  IcB-CbBAIC 

Take  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  bum  half  of  it  in  a  sauce-pan  or 
skillet;  stir  in  sufficient  water  to  bring  to  a  liquid  state;  add  the 
other  sugar  with  one  pint  of  milk  containing  four  eggs  well  beaten.. 
Flavor  strongly  with  lemon,  proceed  as  with  other  ices. 

Chocolatb  Ice-Cbbah. 

Use  three  or  four  ounces  of  the  common  unsweetened  chocolate 
to  a  gallon  of  cream,  or  boiled  custard.  Boil  the  chocolate  in  some 
milk  and  sweeten  to  taste;  strain  it  into  the  cream  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Beat  the  ice-cream  to  make  it  bright  and  rich  colored. 
Melted  chocolate  cannot  be  mixed  at  once  in  cold  cream  as  it  set& 
and  makes  trouble.    It  must  be  considerably  diluted  first. 

CoPFBB  Icb-Cbbam. 

To  three  quarts  of  pure,  sweet  cream  add  one  pint  of  a  decoction 

of  very  strong  clear  coffee.     Sugar  as  usual — eight  ounces  to  the 

quart. 

Lbmon  Icb-Cbbam. 

This  is  made  with  the  same  proportion  of  cream  and  sugar  and 
one  lemon;  grate  the  lemon  rind  into  the  sugar;  this  extracts  the 


ICES  AND  ICE-CREAMS.  166 

oil;  then  add  the  juice  and  the  raw  cream;  strain  and  freeze  imme- 
diately.    Lemon  cream  sours  more  quickly  than  any  other. 

Peach  Icb-Cbeam. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk^  two  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  one  quart  of 
peaches  pared  and  stoned — ^mash  and  add  to  the  custard.  Proceed 
as  usual. 

Phhe-Applb  Ice-Cbbam. 

Take  two  cans  of  pine-apples,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts 
of  cream  (the  cream  must  be  nearly  frozen,  else  the  pine-apple  pulp 
or  syrup,  upon  being  added,  will  immediately  curdle  it).  Beat  all 
thoroughly  and  finish  freezing. 

Obangb  Icb-Cbbam. 

Make  a  custard  same  as  for  vanilla;  add  orange  pulp,  or  simply 
flavor  with  orange,  if  preferred. 

Stbawbebbt  and  Raspbebbt  Icb-Cbbam. 
Bruise  a  pint  of  strawberries  or  raspberries  with  two  laige 
spoonfuls  of  fine  sugar;  add  a  quart  of  cream  and  strain  through  a 
sieve  and  freeze  it.  If  you  have  no  cream,  boil  a  teaspoonf ul  of 
arrowroot  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  if  you  like,  beat  up  one  %^;g  and 
fltir  into  it. 

Vakilla  Ice-Cbbam. 
One  quart  of  cream,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  granulated,  half  a 
vanilla  bean.  Boil  half  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  bean,  then 
add  the  rest  of  the  cream;  cool  and  strain  it.  If  extract  of  vanilla, 
or  any  other  extract  is  used,  do  not  boil  it,  but  put  it  in  the  cream 
with  the  sugar  and  freeze.  Make  it  strong  with  the  flavoring,  as  it 
loses  strength  with  freezing. 

CoooANTTT  Icb-Cbbam. 

Same  as  vanilla,  omitting  vanilla  flavoring,  and  adding  chopped 
cocoanut. 


; 


166  ICBS  Al^D  ICE-CREAMS. 

Fbozen  Tapioca  Custard. 

Soak  six  or  seven  ounces  of  tapioca  in  one  quart  of  milk;  when 
sof t,  boil  two  quarts  of  milk  sweetened  with  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  of  sugar;  then  add  the  tapioca  and  let  it  cook  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter  and  eight  beaten  eggs  and 
take  the  custard  immediately  off  the  fire;  cool  and  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  lemon  and  freeze  like  ice-cream;  when  nearly  finished, 
add  one  cup  of  whipped  cream  and  beat  well. 

Fbozen  Ricb  Custabd. 

Wash  six  ounces  of  rice  in  several  waters  and  cook  it  in  milk; 
then  proceed  as  in  tapioca  custard,  using  cinnamon  or  any  other 
flavoring  desired. 

Fbozbn  Sago  Custabd. 

Soak  the  sago  in  cold  milk  first,  it  will  then  cook  in  a  few 
minutes;  then  proceed  as  in  tapioca  custard. 

Watbb-Icbs. 

These  are  made  with  the  juices  of  ripe  fruits,  sweetened  and 
frozen  like  ice-cream;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  if  the  juiees 
are  sweetened  excessively  they  will  not  freeze.  It  is  therefore 
generally  necessary  to  test  them  with  an  instrument  called  a 
saccharometer.  This  applies  equally  to  ice-creams  and  all  drinks 
to  be  frozen;  and  for  water-ices  clarified  sugar  should  be  used, 
which  may  be  prepared  in  the  following  manner:  To  a  quart  of 
water  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  half  of  the  white  of  an  egg 
well  beaten  up.     This  should  be  boiled  ten  minutes  and  skinmie<l. 

Chebbt  Wateb-Ice  with  Nut  Cbeam. 

Two  freezers  will  be  required.  For  the  cherry  ice  take  two 
quarts  of  sweet  cherries,  one  quart  of  water,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  sugar.  Pound  the  raw  fruit  in  a  mortar  so  as  to  break 
the  stones  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  fine  striainer  into  the 
freezer.     Boil  the  cherry  pulp  with  some  of  the  sugar  and  water  to 


r 


ICES  AND  ICE-CRfiAMS.  167 

extract  the  flavor  from  the  kernels,  and  mash  that  also  through  the 
strainer;  add  to  the  remainder  of  water  and  sugar  and  freeze.  No 
eggs  are  needed  and  only  beat  the  ice  enough  to  make  it  even  and 
smooth. 

For  the  nut  cream,  use  one  pound  of  either  pecan  or  hickory-nut 
meats,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  rich  milk 
or  cream,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  burnt  sugar  for  coloring.  Pick  over 
the  kernels  carefully,  that  there  be  no  fragments  of  shells  to  make 
the  cream  gritty,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  part  of  the 
sugar  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  milk.  Only  a  few  can  be  pounded 
eflEectually  at  a  time.  Mix  the  milk  with  the  pulp  thus  obtained, 
the  rest  of  the  sugar  and  caramel  coloring,  enough  to  make  it  like 
coffee  and  cream,  and  run  it  through  a  strainer  into  a  freezer. 
Freeze  it  as  usual  and  beat  smooth  with  a  spatula,  then  pack  down 
with  more  ice  to  freeze  firm.  Line  the  moulds  with  cherry  ice  and 
fill  the  middle  with  the  cream,  or  dish  the  ice  as  a  border  in  shallow 
glasses  with  the  cream  piled  in  the  center. 

Stbawbbbrt  Watbr-Icb. 

To  a  pound  of  ripe  strawberries  and  half  a  poimd  of  currants  add 
a  pmt  of  clarified  sugar.  If  desired,  a  little  coloring  may  be  used. 
The  whole  must  then  be  strained  through  a  hair  sieve  and  frozen. 

Raspbbbbt  Water-Icb. 
This  may  be  made  the  same  as  strawberry  water-ice  by  merely 
substituting  raspberries  for  strawberries. 

Burnt  Almond  Ice  Cream  and  Orangb-Icb. 
First  make  the  almond  candy  as  follows:  Take  one  pound  of 
sugar,  three-fourths  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  two  ounces  of  bitter 
almonds.  Blanch  the  almonds,  split  them  and  put  them  in  a  slow 
oven  to  dry  and  acquire  a  light  yellow  color;  put  the  sugar  in  a 
kettle  on  the  fire,  without  any  water,  and  stir  it  until  it  is  all  melted 
and  of  the  color  of  golden  syrup;  then  put  in  the  hot  almonds,  stir 
gently  to  mix  and  pour  the  cardy  on  a  platter.  When  cold,  pound 
the  candy  quite  fine,  put  it  into  three  pints  of  rich  milk,  set  it  on 


1 


168  ICES  AND  IC£^CR£AM8. 

the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  ten  eggs.  Strain 
the  burnt  almond  custard  thus  made  into  a  freezer,  and  freeze  as 
usual  and  beat  well. 

For  the  orange  ice:  Take  three  pints  of  water,  one  pound  of 
«ugar,  five  or  six  oranges,  according  to  size,  juice  of  one  lemon,  if 
the  oranges  are  sweet,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of 
the  sugar  and  a  very  little  water.  Peel  half  the  oranges,  divide 
them  by  their  natural  divisions  and  drop  the  pieces  of  oranges  into 
the  boiling  syrup.  Grate  the  yellow  peel  of  the  other  three  oranges 
into  a  bowl  and  squeeze  in  the  juice,  then  pour  the  syrup  from  the 
scalded  orange  slices  also  into  the  bowl  through  a  strainer  and  keep 
the  slices  on  ice  to  be  mixed  in  at  the  last.  Add  the  water  and 
lemon  juice  to  the  orange  syrup  in  the  bowl,  strain  and  freeze. 
Beat  in  the  whipped  whites  as  usual,  and  when  finished  stir  in  the 
sugared  fruit.  Use  the"  burnt  almond  cream  and  fill  with  the 
orange  ice. 

Biscuit  Glacbs.  • 

To  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs; 
flavor  with  vanilla;  beat  well,  then  take  two  quarts  of  whipped 
cream  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  yolks;  color  some  of  it  red  and 
spread  on  the  bottom  of  paper  capsules  and  fill  up  with  fresh  cream. 
Then  put  them  in  a  tin  box  with  cover  and  pack  well  up  on  all  sides 
with  pounded  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  for  two  hours;  it  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

Ratbffe  Bisouit  Cbeam. 

Make  the  same  as  vanilla;  when  nearly  frozen  add  .one-half  pound 
of  rateffe  biscuit  and  finish  freezing. 

Turn  Frutti.  ^ 

When  a  rich  vanilla  cream  is  partly  frozen,  candied  cherries, 
chopped  raisins,  chopped  citron  or  any  other  candied  fruit  chopped 
rather  fine  are  added;  add  about  half  the  quantity  of  fruit  that 
there  is  of  ice-cream;  mold  and  imbed  in  ice  and  salt;  or  make  also 
two  quarts  of  orange  ice  in  another  freezer,  add  the  white  of  eggs 


ICES  AKD  ICE-CREAM&  169 

in  the  nsual  manner  and  beat  it  up  white  and  smooth,  then  spread 
it  evenly  over  the  insides  of  two  or  three  melon  molds  to  coat  them* 
Imbed  the  molds  in  the  freezing  mixture,  and  when  the  coating  of 
orange  ice  is  frozen  firm  fill  up  with  the  tutti  frutti«  Spread  the 
orange  ice  also  on  top,  put  on  the  lids,  secure  with  a  number  of 
rubber  bands,  close  all  spaces  securely  with  butter  and  place  the 
molds  in  the  freezing  mixture  to  remain  two  or  three  hours.  When 
to  be  served  wash  the  outsides  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  tepid  water, 
carefully  turn  out  the  tutti  frutti  on  to  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish, 
lay  a  decoration  of  gelatine  paste  upon  the  white  surface  and  serve. 

Gelatine  Paste  fob  Obkamenting  Ices. 

Make  clear  jelly  in  the  usual  manner,  then  reduce  it  by  slow 
boiling  to  little  more  than  half,  cplor  it  as  desired,  filter  again, 
flavor,  and  cool  it  on  large  platters.  Stamp  out  leaves,  fern  leaves, 
flower  shapes,  etc.,  and  have  them  ready  to  place  on  the  molded 
ices  as  soon  as  they  are  turned  out. 

Pine-Apple  Sherbet. 

Take  two  cans  of  pine-apples  or  the  same  amount  of  ripe  pine- 
apples, two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  water,  whites  of  six 
eggs.  Strain  the  juice  from  the  cans  into  the  freezer.  Make  a 
boiling  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water.  Chop  the  pine- 
apples small,  scald  it  in  the  boiling  syrup,  then  rub  it  through  a 
colander  with  the  syrup  and  the  remaining  quart  of  water  into  the 
freezer.  Freeze  and  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat  it  per- 
fectly white. 

To  CoLOB  loE  Cbeam  OB  Wateb  Ices. 

For  Green,  use  juice  of  spinach  or  beet  leaves.  Vegetable  green, 
already  prepared,  can  be  bought  at  the  druggists. 

For  Yellow,  iaffron  soaked  in  warm  water. 

For  Red,  take  cochineal,  which  can  be  had  at  any  druggists,  or 
made  as  follows:  One-quarter  ounce  cochineal,  pound  finely  and  add 
one-half  pint  boiling  water,  one-half  ounce  cream  of  tartar,  one-quar- 


170 


ICES  AND  ICB-CREAMS. 


ter  ounce  alum,  and  one-quarter  ounce  salt  of  tartar.  Let  it  stand 
until  the  color  is  extracted,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

For  Purple,  mix  a  small  quantity  of  cochineal  and  ultramarina 
blue. 

For  Brown,  use  powdered  chocolate. 

Other  colors  can  be  used,  but  these  are  all  good,  showy  and  quit& 
harmless. 


».«- 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

ICINGS. 

« 

OR  icing  cakes  use  only  fresh  eggs  and  sift  your  pulverized 
sngar. 

Almond  Icino. 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  whisked  to  a  standing  froth,  three-quarters 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  sweet  almonds, 
blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste.  When  beaten  fine  and  smooth^ 
work  gradually  into  the  icing;  flavor  with  lemon  juice  and  rose 
water.  This  frosting  is  delicious.  Dry  in  the  open  air  when  this 
is  practicable. 

Boiled  Icing. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  put  to  this  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water;  let  it  boil  on  the  back  of  the  stdve  until  it  is  waxy,  or 
stringy;  then  add  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Boiled  Icing,  No.  2. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  one  pint  of  sugar,  melted  in 
water  and  then  boiled;  add  to  it  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  cold. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  powdered 
sugar,  and  six  large  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate. 

Chocolate  Icing,  No.  2. 

One-half  cake  of  chocolate  grated  fine,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk  or  cream;  boiled  and  stirred  to  a  paste* 


172  ICINGS. 

■ 

Chocolate  Icing,  No.  8. 

One-half  cake  chocolate;  warm  in  the  oven  ten  minutes;  add  one 
heaping  cap  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonf  ul  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  cloves,  the  same  of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla;  pour  a 
little  water  on  the  sugar,  put  it  on  the  chocolate,  heat  on  the  stove, 
melt  it  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in  the  spices. 

Cleas  Icing,  fob  Cake. 

Put  one  cup  sugar  into  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
and  whites  of  two  eggs.  Just  mix  together  smooth  and  pour  over 
the  cake;  if  the  cake  is  not  hot  enough  to  dry  it,  place  it  in  the 
mouth  of  a  moderately  warm  oven. 

Icing  fob  Cakes. 
Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with 
lemon;  break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  cool,  clean  dish;  throw  a 
«mall  handful  of  sugar  upon  them  and  begin  to  whip  it  in  with 
long,  even  strokes  of  the  beater.  A  few  minutes  later  throw  in 
more  sugar  and  keep  adding  it  at  intervals  until  it  is  all  used  up. 
Beat  until  the  icing  is  of  a  smooth,  fine  and  firm  texture;  if  not 
stiff  enough,  put  in  more  sugar;  use  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
•of  sugar  for  each  egg.  To  spread  it,  use  a  broad-bladed  knife 
dipped  in  cold  water. 

Turn  Pbutti  Fbosting. 

One-half  cup  of  water,  three  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs; 
boil  sugar  and  water  until  very  thick  and  waxy;  beat  the  whites  of 
^ggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them,  beating  all  till 
«ool;  then  add  one-half  pound  of  almonds,  chopped  fine;  one  small 
half  cup  of  large  white  raisins,  and  a  little  citron,  sliced  thin. 
Very  nice  for  sponge  cake. 

Lemon  Icing. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  juice  and  a  part  of  the 
Tind  of  two  lemons. 


ICINGS.  17a 

Obnamkntal  Icmo. 

Fill  a  paper  cone  with  the  icing,  and  work  npon  the  cake,  by 
slightly  pressing  the  cone,  any  design  you  may  choose. 

Yellow  Icing. 

Yolk  of  one  egg  to  nine  heaping  teaspoonf  ols  of  pulverized  sugar 
and  flavor  with  vanilla,  or  lemon. 

Boss  COLOBINO. 

Mix  together  one-fourth  ounce  each  of  powdered  alum  and  cream 
of  tartar,  one  ounce  cochineal,  four  ounces  loaf  sugar,  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  soda.  Boil  ten  minutes  in  a  pint  of  clear,  soft  water;  when 
cool,  bottle  and  cork  for  use.  This  is  used  for  jellies,  .cakes,  ica- 
oream,  etc. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


JAMS    AND    JELLIES. 


N  making  jam,  the  first  thing  to  be  looked  after  is  the  fruit.  As 
a  general  rule,  this  should  be  fully  ripe,  fresh,  sound,  and 
scrupulously  clean  and  dry.  It  should  be  gathered  in  the 
morning  of  a  sunny  day,  as  it  will  then  possess  its  finest  flavor. 
The  best  sugar  is  the  cheapest;  indeed,  there  is  no  economy  in 
stinting  the  sugar  either  as  to  quality  or  necessary  quantity,  for 
inferior  sugar  is  wasted  in  scum,  and  the  jam  will  not  keep  unless  a 
sufficient  proportion  of  sugar  is  bailed  with  the  fruit.  At  the  dftme 
time  too  large  a  proportion  of  sugar  will  destroy  the  natural  flavor 
of  the  fruit,  and  in  all  probability  make  the  jam  candy.  The  sugar 
should  be  dried  and  broken  up  into  small  pieces  before  it  is  mixed 
with  the  fruit.  If  it  is  left  in  large  lumps  it  will  be  a  long  time  in 
dissolving,  and  if  it  is  crushed  to  powder  it  will  make  the  jam  look 
thick  instead  of  clear  and  bright.  The  quantity  to  be  used  must 
depend  in  every  instance  on  the  nature  of  the  fruit.  Fruit  is  gen- 
erally boiled  in  a  brass  or  copper  kettle  uncovered,  and  this  should 
be  kept  perfectly  bright  and  clean.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  place  the  kettle  flat  upon  the  fire,  as  this  will  be  likely  to 
make  the  jam  bum  to  the  bottom.  Olass  jars  or  cans  are  much  the 
best  for  jams,  as  through  them  the  condition  of  the  fruit  can  be 
observed.  Whatever  jars  are  used,  however,  the  jam  should  be 
examined  every  three  weeks  for  the  first  two  months,  and  if  there 
are  any  signs  of  mold  or  fermentation  it  should  be  boiled  over 
again.  If  you  do  not  use  the  patent  glass  jar,  the  best  way  to  cover 
jam  is  to  lay  a  piece  of  paper  the  size  of  the  jar  upon  the  jam,  to 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES.  175 

tBtretch  oyer  the  top  a  piece  of  writing  paper  or  tissue  paper  which 
has  been  dipped  in  white  of  egg,  and  to  press  the  sides  closely 
down.  When  dry,  this  paper  will  be  stiff  and  tight  like  a  drum. 
The  strict  economist  may  use  gum  Arabic  dissolved  in  water  instead 
of  white  of  egg.  The  object  aimed  at  is  to  exclude  the  air  entirely. 
Jam  should  be  stored  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  but  not  in  one  into 
which  fresh  air  never  enters.  Damp  has  a  tendency  to  make  the 
fruit  mold,  and  heat  to  make  it  ferment.  Some  cooks  cover  the 
jam  as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is  poured  out,  but  the  generally- 
approved  plan  is  to  let  the  fruit  grow  cool  before  covering  it.  In 
making  jam  continual  watchfulness  is  required,  as  the  result  of  five 
minutes'  inattention  may  be  loss  and  disappointment. 

Apbioot  Jam. 

Pare  three  pounds  of  fresh,  sound  apricots,  halve  them,  and  take 
out  the  stones.  They  should  be  ripe  enough  to  halve  with  the 
fingers.  Place  them,  in  a  deep  dish,  and  strew  over  them  one  pound 
of  finely,  sifted  sugar.  Let  them  remain  for  eight  hours.  Then 
place  them  with  the  syrup  that  will  have  oozed  from  them  in  a 
preserving-pan;  add  a  few  of  the  kernels  blanched  and  sliced,  and 
another  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar.  Let  them  boil  very  gently, 
and,  when  done,  put  them  into  glasses  or  jars  and  cover  closely  with 
gummed  paper. 

MakmatiAdes  and  Jams. 
In  making  marmalades,  jams,  etc. — ^If  put  up  in  small  quantities 
and  for  immediate  use,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit  is  sufficient;  but  if  desirable  to  keep  them  longer,  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  is  a  better  proportion.  As  in 
preserves,  the  best  sugar  should  be  uded. 

Apple  Jam. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  them  in  a 
preserving  kettle  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  fruit;  add  (tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin)  a  few 


176  JAMS  AND  JELLIES. 

elovesy  a  small  piece  of  ginger  and  a  thin  rind  of  lemon;  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  on  a  quick  fire  for  half  an  hour. 

BlAOKBSBBT,  RASPBEBBYy  CUBBANT   OB   StBAWBEBBT  JaM, 

May  be  made  by  patting  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boiling 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes^  stirring  often  and  skimming  off  %dj 
Bcnm  that  may  rise;  then  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three- 
fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  thirty  minutea 
longer  stirring  continually;  when  done  pour  into  small  jars  or  jelly 
glasses.  A  good  way  is  to  mix  raspberries  and  currants  in  the  pro- 
portion of  two-thirds  of  the  former  to  one-third  of  the  latter. 

Obape,  Ooosebebbt,  OB  Plum  Jam. 

Stew  the  berries  in  a  little  water,  press  through  a  coaifte  sieve  or 
colander;  then  return  to  the  kettle  and  add  three-fourths  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  pound  of  the  pulped  fruit.  Boil  three-fourths  of  an 
hour,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  in  jars  or  bowls  and  cover  as 
directed  for  other  jams. 

Applb  Mabmaladb. 

Peel  and  slice  the  apples;  weigh  and  put  into  a  kettle  and  stew 
until  tender;  wash  fine  and  add  sugar  in  proportion  of  pound  to 
pound;  let  them  cook  slowly,  stirring  very  frequently;  be  careful 
not  to  allow  it  to  scorch;  when  the  mass  has  a  jellied  appearance  it 
is  done.  About  half  an  hour  will  generally  be  found  sufficient  for 
making  the  marmalades  after  adding  the  sugar. 

Obangb  Mabmaladb. 

Eighteen  sweet,  ripe  oranges,  six  pounds  best  white  sugar.  Grate 
the  peel  from  four  oranges,  and  reserve  it  for  the  marmalade.  The 
rinds  of  the  rest  will  not  be  needed.  Pare  the  fruit  carefully, 
removing  the  inner  white  skin  as  well  as  the  yellow;  slice  the 
orange;  remove  the  seeds;  put  the  fruit  and  grated  peel  in  a  por- 
celain or  enamel  saucepan  and  boil  steadily  until  the  pulp  is  reduced 
to  a  smooth  mass;  take  from  the  fire  and  rub  quickly  through  a 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES.  177 

olean,  bright  colander,  as  the  color  is  easily  injured.  Stir  in  the 
sugar,  return  to  the  fire,  and  boil  fast,  stipring  constantly  half  an 
hour,  or  until  thick.  Put  while  warm  into  small  jars,  but  do  no( 
cover  until  cold.    This  is  a  handsome  and  delicious  sweetmeat. 

Pine- Apple  Marmalade. 

Pare,  slice,  core,  and  weigh  the  pine-apple;  then  cut  into  small 
bits;  make  a  syrup  of  a  cup  of  w^ter  to  two  pounds  of  sugar;  melt 
and  heat  to  a  boil;  heat  the  chopped  pine-apple  in  a  vessel  set 
within  one  of  boiling  water,  covering  it  closely  to  keep  in  the 
flavor;  when  it  is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and  begins  to  look 
clear,  add  to  the  syrup;  boil  together  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the 
while,  or  until  it  is  a  clear,  bright  paste. 

Peach  Mabmaladb. 

Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit;  heat  slowly  to  draw  out  the 
juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon;  after 
it  is  hot,  boil  quickly,  still  stirring,  three-quartera  of  an  hour;  add, 
then,  the  sugar,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a  pound  to  each  pound 
of  l^e  fruit;  boil  up  well  for  five  minutes,  taking  off  every  particle 
of  scum;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit, 
and  the  water  in  which  one-fourth  of  the  kernels  have  been  boiled 
and  steeped;  stew  all  together  ten  minutes,  stirring  to  a  smooth 
paste,  and  take  from  the  fire;  put  up  hot  in  air-tight  cans,  or,  when 
cold,  in  small  stone  or  glass  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  fitted 
neatly  to  the  surface  of  the  marmalade.  A  Ic^ge  ripe  pine-apple, 
pared  and  cut  up  fine,  and  stirred  with  the  peaches,  is  a  fine  addi- 
tion to  the  flavor. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Such  quinces  as  are  too  knotty  and  defective  t6  make  good  pre- 
serves may  be  pared  and  cored,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into 
the  kettle  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit;  put  a  small  cup  of  cold  water  in  first  to  prevent  burning. 
When  the  quince  begins  to  soften,  take  a  potato  masher  and  mash  it 

12 


178  JELLIES. 

to  a  palp,  without  taking  it  from  the  fire;  let  it  boil  gently  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes^  not  longer  than  twenty.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  pat  into  jars. 

StrawberrieSy  raspberries,  blackberries  and  grapes  all  make  nioe 
marmalades. 

Plum  Mabhaladb. 

Choose  plams  that  are  fally  ripe;  scald  them  till  the  skins  peel 
off,  and  take  oat  the  stones.  Allow  a  poand  and  a  half  of  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  fruit;  let  them  lie  in  the  sugar  a  few  hours,  then  boil  to 
a  smooth  mass. 

Pumpkin  Mabmaladb. 

Take  ripe,  yellow  pumpkins,  pare  and  cut  them  into  large  pieces, 
■craping  out  the  seeds  with  an  iron  spoon;  weigh  the  pieces,  and  to 
every  pound  allow  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  a  small  orange  or 
lemon;  grate  pieces  of  pumpkin  on  a  coarse  grater,  and  put, 
together  with  the  sugar,  into  a  preserving  pan,  the  yellow  rinit  of 
the  orange,  grated,  and  the  juice,  strained.  Let  all  boil  slowly, 
jtirring  it  frequently  and  skimming  it  well  till  it  is  a  smooth,  thick 
marmalade;  put  it  warm  into  small  glass  jars  or  tumblers  and  lay  a 
tdouble  round  of  tissue  paper  with  a  bladder  or  waxed  paper. 


JELLIES. 


Applb  Jbllt. 


Slice  the  apples,  skins,  cores  and  all;  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  with 
a  small  quantity  of  water  to  keep  them  from  sticking;  then  place 
the  jar  in  water  and  let  them  remain  boiling  until  perfectly  soft; 
then  strain  and  to  one  pint  of  the  liquor  add  three-quartera  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar;  boil  and  clear  with  the  whites  of  two  or  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  When  it  jellies  pour  into  the  glaat^  to 
cool  and  seal  them. 


JELLIES.  179 

Blackberry  Jblly. 

Take  blackberries  before  they  are  ripe,  wben  they  are  tamed  red, 
pat  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cook  until  reduced  to  a  pulp; 
then  strain  them  and  to  a  pint  of  jaice  add  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Boil  to  a  jelly. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

Stew  the  cranberries  until  they  are  tender,  then  pour  into  a  jelly- 
'*bag  and  let  drip  over  night;  take  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint 
of  juice;  let  the  juice  boil  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  the  sugar  and 
stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved. 

Crab-Applb  Jelly. 

Boil  the  fruit  whole  in  water  enough  to  cover  it  until  perfectly 
softy  then  pour  into  a  coarse  linen  bag  and  let  it  drip  until  it  ceases, 
then  press  it  a  little.  Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
jui#e.  If  you  choose  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  each  quart  of 
syrup.  Boil  the  juice  first,  then  skim  it;  heat  the  sugar  in:  a  dish 
in  the  oven  and  add  it  as  the  juice  boils  up.  Boil  gently  twenty 
minutes  and  pour  in  tumblers  or  molds. 

Currant  Jelly, 

From  the  Some  Messenger  we  copy  the  following:  This  recipe 
is  the  only  one  which  we  will  warrant  to  make  good  jelly  against 
odds.  We  have  made  jelly  by  it  on  the  fifth  of  July  and  on  the 
fifteenth,  and  each  time  it  was  a  perfect  success.  While  we  recom- 
mend all  persons  to  make  their  jelly  from  fresh  fruit,  early  in  the 
season,  we  can  still  assure  those  who  are  behindhand  that  they  need 
not  despair  of  jelly  that  will  set  firm  and  hard  later  in  the  season. 
Run  the  currants  through  your  hand  picking  out  the  leaves  and 
any  stray  thing  that  may  adhere  to  them  but  leaving  the  currants 
on  their  stems.  Weigh  the  fruit,  being  accurate  in  remembering  the 
number  of  pounds.  Put  a  pint  of  water  into  your  preserving  kettle 
and  add  a  bowl  or  two  of  currants,  mashing  and  pressing  them  till 
you  have  sufficient  juice  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  then 


180  JELLIES. 

add  the  remainder  of  the  currants;  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  boil 
at  least  twenty  minutes,  of  course  stirring  and  pressing  them  from 
time  to  time  that  they  may  not  bam.  Have  a  three-cornered 
bag  of  thin  but  strong  unbleached  cotton  that  has  been  well 
scalded  and  wrung  till  almost  dry;  hang  it  up  and  pour  the  boiled 
currants  into  it.  Let  it  drip  into  a  stone  crock  all  night,  but  by  no 
means  squeeze  it,  the  currants  will  drain  perfectly  dry.  In  the 
morning  pour  the  strained  juice  into  the  preserving  kettle  without 
measuring;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  thorougly  for  three  or 
four  minutes,  then  pour  in  half  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  you 
had  pounds  of  currants.  For  instance,  a  peck  of  currants  will 
probably  weigh  twelve  pounds;  therefore  use  six  pounds  of  sugar. 
The  moment  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved  the  jelly  is  done.  To 
make  sure  of  the  sugar  being  entirely  dissolved  see  that  it  begins 
to  jelly  on  the  ladle.  It  will  look  thick  and  drop  thick  and' a  little 
stringy,  but  if  let  heat  beyond  this  point  it  will  loose  its  thickness 
and  not  jelly  nearly  so  well  and  always  disappoint  you  if  you  lose 
faith  in  your  instructions  and  insist  upon  *  letting  it  come  to  a  boil.'' 
All  the  boiling  is  done  before  you  put  in  the  sugar. 

Currant  Jki.ly. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Squeeze 
the  currants  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar,  which 
should  be  heating  while  the  juice  boils;  stir  well  together  until  the 
sugar  is  well  dissolved. 

Grapb  Jbllt. 

Put  the  grapes  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  heat,  bruising  them 
meantime  with  a  potato  masher,  until  the  juice  runs  freely,  then 
strain  through  a  sieve  or  thin  cloth  and  measure  one  pint  of  juice 
for  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
before  putting  in  the  sqgar;  after  adding  the  sugar  let  it  boil  from 
three  to  five  minutes.  All  fruit  will  form  more  readily  into  a  jelly 
if  not  guite  ripe. 


JELLIES.  181 

Pkach  Jelly. 

Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  into  the  jar  with  the 
peaches,  which  have  been  wiped,  stoned  and  sliced.  Heat  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  occasionally  until  the  fruit  is  well  broken^ 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon; 
measure  again  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Hel&t  the  sugar  very  hot  and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled  twenty 
minutes.     Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  take  instantly  from  the  tire. 

Pie-Plant  Jelly. 

Stew  the  stalks  until  tender  in  a  preserving  kettle;  strain  through 
a  jelly-bag;  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon.  To  each  pint  of  juice 
add  a  pound  of  sugar;  boil  until  it  jellies  on  the  skimmer;  remove 
it  from  the  fire  and  put  into  jars. 

Qthnce  Jelly. 

Peel,  cut  up  and  core  some  fine,  ripe  quinces;  put  them  in  suffi- 
cient cold  water  to  cover  them  and  stew  gently  till  soft,  but  not 
redj  strain  the  juice  without  pressure,  weigh,  and  to  every  pound 
of  juice  allow  one  pound  of  crushed  sugar;  boil  the  juice  twenty 
minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  again  until  it  jellies — about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour;  stir  and  skim  well  all  the  time;  strain  through  thin 
cloth  into  your  jelly  glasses,  and  when  cold,  cover  it.  The 
remainder  of  the  fruit  can  be  made  into  marmalade  with  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  juicy 
apples  to  every  pound  of  quinces,  or  it  can  be  made  into  compotes 
or  tarts. 

QmircB  Jelly,  No.  2. 

Take  the  cores  and  parings  of  the  quinces,  put  them  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  ujitil  they  are  soft;  squeeze,  and 
add  the  juice  to  the  water,  and  any  syrup  which  may  be  left  from 
the  quince  preserve,  and  strain  it;  to  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a 
pound  of  sugar;  spread  the  sugar  in  pans,  put  it  in  the  oiren  to 
heat,  it  must  be  watched  and  stirred  to  prevent  burning.     Let  the 


182  GELATINE  JELLIES. 

juice  boil  for  ^ye  minutes,  then  pour  in  the  hot  sugar,  stirring  until 
it  is  entirely  dissolved,  and  skimming  any  scum  that  may  rise. 
There  will  be  very  little.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  take  from  the 
fire  and  put  in  jars  or  glasses;  the  jelly  will  be  clear,  of  a  good 
color  and  keep  well.  All  kinds  of  jellies  can  be  made  in  this  way, 
and  it  saves  much  labor  in  the  time  of  boiling  the  juices  and  the 
trouble  of  skimming. 


GELATINE    JELLIES. 


^  Coffee  Jelly. 


One  box  gelatine  soaked  for  an  hour  in  just  water  enough  to 
cover;  take  one  quart  of  strong  coffee,  madt  as  for  table  use; 
sweeten  it  to  taste;  have  the  coffee  hot  and  add  the  dissolved  gela- 
tine; stir  well  and  strain  into  a  mold  that  has  just  been  rinsed  in 
cold  water.  Set  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  place,  and  when  cold,  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Lemon  Snow  Jelly. 

Dissolve  one  box  of  gelatine  in  nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
then  add  the  juice  of  five  lemons  and  enough  of  sugar  to  sweeten 
to  taste;  strain  and  set  aside  until  nearly  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  and  whip  into  the  jelly;  turn  into  a  dish  and' let  it  set 
until  cOol.  After  it  becomes  solid,  decorate  with  pieces  of  red 
jelly. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  red  is  the  best,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  and  four  lemons;  cut  the  lemons  into  slices 
and  bruise  them,  then  add  the  sugar  and  gelatine,  and  pour  upon 
the  whole  boiling  water;  set  the  vessel  containing  them  upon  the 
stove^and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved;  then  pour 
into  molds  and  set  to  cool. 


GELATIN£  JELLIES.  183 

Obangb  Jelly. 

Take  two  ounces  of  gelatine  and  pour  on  hot  water  enough  to 
cover  it,  and  let  soak  until  it  is  dissolved;  boil  together  one  quart 
of  water  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  and  add  the  dissolved  gela- 
tine; add  the  juice  of  five  oranges  and  one  lemon  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  strain  through  a 
jelly-bag;  turn  into  molds  and  set  to  cool. 

Any  jellies  may  be  colored  by  using  fruit  coloring,  which  may  be 
obtained  at  the  bakeries. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
one  pint  of  wine,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  pint  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  juice  of  three  lemons. 

MOULDIKESS. 

Fruit  jellies  may  be  preserved  from  mouldiness  by  covering  che 
surface  one-fourth  of  an  inch  deep  with  finely  pulverized  loaf  sugar. 
Thus  protected,  they  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  years. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

MUSHROOMS. 


tHE  peasants  of  a  great  portion  of  Europe  eat  mushrooms  rav 
with  salt  and  dry  hread,  and  wholesome  and  good  they  are. 
The  true  Savor  of  mushroonts,  nevertheless,  is  greatly  height- 
ened hy  cooking;  and  cook 
them  how  you  may — a  hroil,  a 
atew,  or  a  fry,  with  the  simple 
addition  of  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  they  are  excellent. 
There  is  one  rule  that  should 
always  be  observed  in  what- 
ever mode  they  are  cooked, 
and  that  is  that  they  should  be 
served  up  quickly  and  hot. 
The  following  modes  of  cook- 
ing mushrooms  may  prove  use- 
ful: 

MiTBHBOOlIS   AU    GbATIH. 

Take  twelve  large  mushrooms  about  two  inches  In  diameter,  pare 
the  stalks,  wash,  and  drain  the  mushrooms  on  a  cloth;  cut  off  and 
chop  the  stalks.  Put  in  a  qaart  etewpan  an  ounce  of  butter  and 
h^  an  ounce  of  flour;  stir  over  the  flre  for  two  minntes;  then  add 
one  pint  of  broth;  stir  till  reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  Drain  the 
chopped  stalks  of  the  mushrooms  thoroughly  in  a  cloth;  put  them 
in   the  Banco  with  three  tsblespoonfnls  of  chopped   and  washed 


/ 

I 


MUSHROOMS.  185 

parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  and  washed  shalot,  two 
pinches  of  salt,  a  small  pinch  of  pepper;  reduce  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
eight  minutes,  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  in  SksaiUe  pan;  set  the 
mushrooms  in,  the  hollow  part  upwards;  fill  them  with  the  fine 
herbs,  and  sprinkle  over  them  lightly  a  tablespoonful  of  raspings; 
put  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

Mushrooms  a  la  Provencale. 

Take  mushrooms  of  good  size;  remove  the  stems  and  soak  them 
in  olive  oil;  cut  up  the  stems  with  a  clove  of  garlic  and  some  pars- 
ley; add  meat  of  sausages,  and  two  yolks  of  eggs  to  unite  them; 
dish  the  mushrooms,  and  garnish  them  with  the  forcemeat;  sprinkle 
them  with  fine  oil,  and  dress  them  in  an  oven,  or  in  a  four  de 

campagne. 

Mushrooms  a  la  Creme. 

Trim  and  rub  half  a  pint  of  button  mushrooms,  dissolve  two 
ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  in  a  stewpan,  then  put  in  the  mush- 
rooms, a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonf ul 
each  of  white  pepper  and  of  powdered  sugar,  shake  the  pan  round 
for  ten  minutes,  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the  mushrooms;  in 
two  or  three  minutes  you  can  serve  them  in  the  sauce. 

Baked  MushroomsI 

Peel  the  tops  of  twenty  mushrooms;  cut  off  a  portion  of  the 

stalks,  and  wipe  them  carefully  with  a  piece  of  flannel,  dipped*  in 

salt;  lay  the  mushrooms  in  a  tin  dish,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 

on  the  top  of  each,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt.     Set  the 

dish  in  the  oven,  and  bake  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

When  done,  arrange  them  high  in  the  centre  of  a  very  hot  dish, 

pour  the  sauce  round  them  and  serve  quickly  and  as  hot  as  you 

possibly  can. 

Breakfast  Mushrooms. 

Clean  a  dozen  or  so  of  medium  size;  place  two  or  three  ounces  of 
mce,  clean  beef -dripping  in  the  frying  pan,  and  with  it  a  table- 


186  MUSHROOMS. 

spoonful  or  more  of  nice  beef  gravy.  Set  the  pan  on  a  gentle  fire,, 
and  as  the  dripping  melts  place  in  the  mushrooms,  adding  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  In  a  few  minutes  they  will  be  cooked,  and  being 
soaked  in  the  gravy  and  served  upon  a  hot  plate,  will  form  a  capital 
dish.  In  the  absence  of  gravy,  a  soupcon  of  "  extractum  camis  ^ 
may  be  substituted. 

Curried  Mushrooms. 

Peel  and  remove  the  stems  from  a  dish  of  full-grown  mushrooms, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  add  a  very  little  butter;  stew  them  gently 
in  a  little  good  gravy  or  stock.  Add  four  tablespoonf uls  of  cream,, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  previously  well  mixed  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  wheat  flour;  mix  carefully,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
dish,  with  hot  toast  and  hot  plates  attendant.  Mind  the  ^' curry 
stuff  "  is  good,  says  an  Indian  friend,  and  not  too  much  of  it.  The* 
word  "  curry,"  by  itself,  it  seems,  being  merely  the  Tamul  word  for 
"meat."  The  large  horse  mushroom,  when  half  or  three  part» 
grown,  and  curried  in  this  fashion,  will  be  found  to  be  delicious. 

Mushrooms  en  Caissb. 

Peel  the  mushrooms  lightly,  and  cut  them  into  pieces.  Put  them 
into  cases  of  buttered  paper,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  parsley,  green 
onions,  and  shalots  chopped  up,  salt  and  pepper.  Dress  them  on> 
the  gridiron  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  serve  in  the  cases. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Mushroom  catsup  is  more  highly  esteemed  and  more  generally 
useful  than  any  other.  It  is  best  when  made  of  large  mushroom 
flaps,  fully  ripe,  fresh,  and  perfectly  dry— that  is,  gathered  during 
dry  weather.  If  this  point  is  not  attended  to  the  catsup  will  not 
keep.  Do  not  wash  nor  skin  the  mushrooms,  but  carefully  remove 
any  decayed,  dirty,  or  worm-eaten  portions;  cut  off  about  half  an 
inch  from  the  end  of  the  stalks,  then  break  the  rest  into  small 
pieces,  put  them  into  an  earthen  jar,  and  strew  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  salt  amongst  two  gallons  of  mushrooms,  scattering  the 
larger  portions  on  top.     Let  them  remain  all  night,  and  the  next 


MUSHROOMS.  187 

day  stir  them  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  repeat  this  three  , 
times  a  day  for  two  days.  At  the  end  of  that  time  put  the  jar  into 
a  cool  oven  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  the  liquid  which  flows  from 
them  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Do  not  squeeze  the  mushrooms.  To  every  quart  of  the  liquid  put 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  Jamaica  ginger  and  black  pepper,  and' 
a  drachm  of  mace.  Boil  again  till  the  quantity  is  reduced  one- 
half.  Pour  it  out,  and  let  it  stand  until  cool,  then  put  it  into  per- 
fectly dry  bottles,  being  careful  to  leave  the  sediment,  which  will 
have  settled  to  the  bottom,  undisturbed.  Seal  the  corks  and  keep 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  ^ 

MUSHBOOMS   BN   RaGOUT. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  little  stock,  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar, 
parsley,  and  green  onions  chopped  up,  salt  and  spices.  When  this 
is  about  to  boil,  the  mushrooms  being  cleaned,  put  them  in.  When 
done,  remove  them  from  the  fire,  and  thicken  with  yolks  of  eggs. 

MUSRBOOMS   WITH    BaCON. 

Take  some  full-grown  mushrooms,  and  having  cleaned  them, 
procure  a  few  rashers  of  nice  streaky  bacon,  and  fry  it  in  the  usual 
manner.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  dozen  or  so  of  mushrooms,  and 
fry  them  slowly  until  they  are  cooked.  In  this  process  they  will 
absorb  all  the  fat  of  the  bacon,  and  with  the  addition  of  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  will  form  a  most  appetizing  breakfast  relish. 

MnsHBOOM  Stbms. 

If  young  and  fresh,  make  a  capital  dish  when  the  supply  of 
mushrooms  is  limited.  Rub  them  quite  clean,  and  after  washing 
them  in  salt  and  water,  slice  them  to  the  thickness  of  a  shilling, 
then  place  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  sufficient  milk  to  stew  them 
tender;  throw  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  some  flour  for  thickening, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  upon  a  toast  of  bread,  in. a  hot 
dish,  and  add  sippets  of  toasted  bread.  This  makes  a  light  and 
very  delicate  supper  dish,  ^d  is  not  bad  sauce  to  a  boiled  fowl. 


188  MUSHROOyS. 

To  Stsw  Mushrooms. 

Trim  and  rub  clean  a  half  pint  large  button  mushrooms;  put  into 
a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter;  shake  over  the  fire  until  thor- 
oughly melted;  put  in  the  mushrooms,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  as 
much  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of  mace  pounded;  stew  till  the 
mushrooms  are  tender^  then  serve  them  on  a  hot  dish.  They  are 
usually  sent  in  as  a  breakfast  dish,  thus  prepared  in  butter. 

To  Pofr  Mushrooms. 

The  small  open  mushrooms  suit  best  for  potting.  Trim  and  rub 
them;  put  into  a  stew-pan  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  three  ounces  of 
butter,  two  teaspoonf uls  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne 
and  mace  mixed,  and  stew  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the 
mushrooms  are  tender;  take  them  carefully  out  and  drain  them 
perfectly  on  a  sloping  dish,  and  when  cold  press  them  into  small 
pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  them,  in  which  state  they  will 
keep  for  a  week  or  two.  If  required  to  be  longer  preserved,  put 
writing  paper  over  the  butter,  and  over  that  melted  suet,  which 
will  effectually  preserve  them  for  many  weeks,  if  kept  in  a  dry,  cool 
place. 

Mushrooms  axd  Toast. 

Peel  the  mushrooms,  and  take  out  the  stems.  Fry  them  over  a 
quick  fire.  When  the  butter  is  melted  take  off  the  pan.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  it.  Let  the  mushrooms  fry  again  for  some 
minutes.  Add  salt,  pepper,  spices,  and  a  spoonful  of  water,  in 
which  a  clove  of  garlic,  having  been  cut  into  pieces,  has  soaked  for 
half  an  hour;  let  it  stew.  When  the  mushrooms  are  done  make  a 
thickening  of  yolks  of  eggs.  Pour  the  mushrooms  on  bread  fried 
in  butter,  and  laid  in  a  dish  ready  for  them. 

Mushrooms  on  Toast. 

Put  a  pint  of  mushrooms  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour;  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful 
Df  white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace  powdered,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 


MUSHROOMS.  '  »         •  IS* 

4 

* 

grated  lemon;  stew  till  the  butter  is  all  absorbed,  then  add  as  much 
white  ratix  as  will  moisten  the  mushrooms;  fry  a  slice  of  bread  in 
butter,  to  fit  the  dish,  and  as  soon  as  the  mushrooms  are  tender 
serve  them  on  the  toast. 

To  PiCKLB   MUSHBOOMS. 

Select  a  number  of  small,  sound,  pasture  mushrooms,  as  nearly  as 
possible  alike  in  size;  throw  them  for  a  few  minutes  into  cold 
water;  then  drain  them;  cut  off  the  stalks,  and  gently  rub  off  the 
outer  skin  with  a  moist  flannel  dipped  in  salt;  then  boil  the  vin- 
egar, adding  to  each  quart  two  ounces  of  salt,  half  a  nutmeg  sliced, 
a  drachm  of  mace,  and  an  ounce  of  white  pepper-corns;  put  the 
mushrooms  into  the  vinegar  for  ten  minutes  over  the  fire;  then 
pour  the  whole  into  small  jars,  taking  care  that  the  spices  are 
equally  divided;  let  them  stand  a  day,  then  cover  them. 

Another  Method. 

In  pickling  mushrooms,  take  the  buttons  only,  and  while  they  are 
quite  close,  cut  the  stem  off  even  with  the  gills,  and  rub  them  quite 
clean.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for  forty-eight  hours,  and  then 
add  pepper  and  vinegar,  in  which  black  pepper  and  a  little  mace 
have  been  boiled.  The  vinegar  must  be  applied  cold.  So  pickled 
they  will  keep  for  years. 


IS. — >f :.  , 


i       V 


CHAPTER  XVI. 


PICKLES. 


flCKLES  are  made  of  frait  or  vegetables  preserved  in  vinegar^ 
and  may  be  used  as  accompaniments  to  cold  meat,  to  garnish 
dishes,  and  to  flavor  hashes  and  sauces.  It  is  generally 
understood  that  they  can  be  bought  cheaper  than  they  can  be  made. 
Nevertheless,  there  is  always  a  certain  amount  of  satisfaction  in 
using  home-made  preparations,  as  by  this  means  the  quality  of  th«* 
article  can  be  assured  beyond  all  question, -and  many  ladies  take 
great  pride  in  their  store  of  home-made  pickles.  A  great  outcry 
was  raised  some  years  ago  abou^  the  unwholesomeness  of  pickles, 
and  attention  was,  called  to  the  fact  that  most  of  those  ordinarily 
sold  were  positively  pernicious,  because  the  vinegar  used  in  making 
them  was  boiled  in  copper  vessels.  This  evil  has  now  been,  to  a 
great  extent,  remedied;  and  it  may  be  reasonably  assumed  that 
pickles  which  are  sold  by  respectable  dealers  have  been  properly 
prepared.  At  the  same  time,  for  safety's  sake,  the  rule  should  be 
laid  down  that  all  pickles  which  are  beautiful  and  brilliant  in  color 
and  appearance  should  be  avoided,  as  this  is  a  certain  sign  that  the 
vinegar  used  has  been  boiled  in  a  metal  pan.  In  making  pickles, 
care  must  be  taken  that  the  vegetables  and  fruit  used  for  the  pur- 
pose are  procured  at  the  right  season,  that  they  are  perfectly  sound, 
not  overripe,  and  have  been  gathered  on  a  dry  day.  They  should 
be  trimmed  and  wiped  before  they  are  used,  and  not  washed,  unless 
they  are  afterwards  to  be  partially  boiled  or  soaked.  The  vinegar 
must  be  of  the  best  quality.  White  wine  vinegar  is  generally 
recommended,  for  the  sake  of  the  appearance,  but  it  is  not  as 

190 


PICKLES.  191 

wholesome  as  the  best  cider  vinegar.     Metal  ntensils  should  never 

be  nsed  in  making  pickles,  as  the  vinegar  acting  upon  the  metal 

produces  a  poison«    Enameled  or  stone  vessels  and  wooden  spoons 

should  therefore  be  used;  and  the  best  method  that  can  be  adopted 

is  to  put  the  vinegar  into  a  stone  jar,  and  heat  it  on  a  stone  or  hot 

hearth.    Pickles  should  be  kept  in  glass  bottles,  or  unglazed  earthen 

jars,  and  should  be  closely  corked,  and  the  corks  sealed  down^ 

or  covered  with  wet  bladder.     They  should  be  stored  in  a  dry 

place.    As  the  vinegar  becomes  absorbed  more  should  be  added,  as 

it  is  important  that  the  vegetables  should  be  covered  at  least  two 

inches  above  the  surface  with  vinegar.     If  any  of  the  vinegar  is 

left  after  the  pickle  is  used,  it  should  be  boiled  up  with  fresh  spices, 

4md  bottled  for  flavoring  sauces,  etc.     It  should  be  remembered 

that  to  boil  vinegar  is  to  decrease  its  strength.     If  it  is  wished  to 

hasten  the  preparation  of  the  pickles,  partially  boil  the  vegetables 

in  brine  and  let  them  qooI  and  get  quite  dry  before  the  vinegar  is 

poured  over  them. 

Pickled  Abtichokbs. 

Boil  your  artichokes  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  two  or  three 
minutes;  lay  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain;  when  cold,  lay  in  narrow- 
topped  jars.  Take  as  much  white  wine  vinegar  as  will  cover  the 
artichokes,  and  boil  it  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  root 
ginger,  and  a  nutmeg  grated  fine.  Pour  it  on  hot,  seal  and  put 
Away  for  use. 

PlCKUED   BuTTBBNirrS  AND   WaLNUTB. 

Gather  them  when  soft  enough  to  be  pierced  by  a  pin;  lay  them 
in  brine  five  days,  changing  this  twice  in  the  meantime;  drain,  and 
wipe  them  with  a  coarse  cloth;  pierce  each  by  running  a  large 
needle  through  it,  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  six  hours.  To  each 
gallon  of  vinegar  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  dozen  each  of  cloves 
and  black  peppers,  half  as  much  allspice,  and  a  dozen  blades  of 
maee.  Boil  five  minutes;  pack  the  nuts  in  small  jars  and  pour  over 
them  scalding  hot.  Repeat  this  twice  within  a  week;  tie  up  and 
set  away.    They  will  be  good  to  eat  in  a  month. 


W2  PICKLB8. 

Pickled  Bbans. 

The  beans  should  be  gathered  young.  Place  them  in  a  strong- 
brine  of  salt  and  water;  when  turning  yellow,  which  will  be  in  a 
day  or  two,  remove  them  and  wipe  them  dry.  Boil  the  vinegar 
with  a  little  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  ginger  (two  ounces  of  pepper 
and  one  ounce  each  of  ginger  and  mace  to  each  quart  of  vinegar) ; 
pour  this  over  the  beans.  A  small  bit  of  alum,  or  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
soda  will  bring  back  the  color.  Cover  them  to  keep  in  the  steam 
and  reboil  the  vinegar  the  next  day;  throw  over  hot  as  before. 
Cover,  but  do  not  tie  down  till  cold. 

PiCKLBD  Beets. 

Take  the  beets,  cleanse  and  boil  two  hours.     When  cold  peel 
and  slice,  put  into  a  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar  prepared  in  the* 
following  manner:  Boil  half  an  ounce  each  of  cloves,  pepper-corns,, 
mace  and  ginger  in  a  pint  of  vinegar,  when  cold  add  another  pint. 

Pickled  Bsocoli. 

Choose  the  finest,  whitest  and  closest  vegetables  before  they  are 
quite  ripe.  Pare  off  all  green  leaves  and  the  outsides  of  the  stalks. 
Parboil  them  in  well-salted  water.  When  drained  and  dry  pull  off 
the  branches  in  convenient  sized  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  jar  of 
pickle  prepared  as  for  onions.  Time  to  parboil,  four  or  five 
minutes. 

Bottled  Pickles. 

Wash  and  wipe  small  cucumbers;  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  cover 
with  salt — allowing  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  half  bushel  of  cucumbers — 
and  pour  over  them  boiling  water  enough  to  cover.  Place  a  gallon 
at  a  time  on  the  stove,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  add  a  lump  of  alum 
about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Put  on  the  stove  in  another  kettle 
a  gallon  of  the  very  best  cider  vinegar,  to  which  add  half  a  pint  of 
brown  sugar;  have  bottles  cleansed  and  placed  to  heat  on  stove  in 
a  vessel  of  cold  water;  also  have  a  cup  of  heated  sealing-wax. 
Have  spices  prepared  in  separate  dishes  as  follows:  Green  and  red 


-7~ 

t 


PICKLES.  MS 

T 

peppers  sliced  in  rings;  horse-radish  roots  washed,  scraped  and  cut 
in  small  pieces;  black  and  yellow  mustard  seed  if  liked,  each  pre- 
"pared  by  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pouring  on  some  boiling  water, 
which  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes  and  then  draw  off;  stick  of 
cinnamon  broken  into  pieces  and  a  few  cloves.  When  pickles  come 
to  boiling  point,  take  out  and  pack  in  bottles,  mixing  with  them  the 
spices.  Put  in  a  layer  of  pickles,  then  a  layer  of  spices,  shaking 
the  bottles  occasionally  so  as  to  pack  tightly.  When  full,  cover 
with  the  boiling  hot  vinegar  from  the  other  kettle  (using  a  bright 
funnel  and  tin  cup),  going  over  them  a  second  time  and  filling  up, 
in  order  to  supply  shrinkage,  for  the  pickles  must  be  entirely 
covered  with  vinegar.  Put  in  the  corks,  which  should  fit  very 
snugly;  lift  each  bottle  and  dip  the  corked  end  in  the  hot  sealing- 
wax;  proceed  in  this  manner  with  each  bottle,  dipping  each  a 
second  time  into  the  wax  so  that  they  may  be  perfectly  secure. 
Glass  cans,  the  covers  of  which  have  become  defective,  can  be  used 
by  supplying  corks.  Pickles  prepared  in  this  way  are  superior  to 
imported  pickles. 

Mast's  Pickled  Blackbebbibs. 

Three  quarts  blackberries,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  quart  sugar. 
No  spice  is  required;  put  all  together  at  the  same  time  into  your 
kettle  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  After  standing  a  few  weeks 
they  are  very  nice. 

To  Put  up  Cucumbbes  in  Bbinb. 

Leave  at  least  an  inch  of  stem  to  the  cucumbers,  and  wash  well  in 
cold  water.  Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong  enough  to  beai- 
an  ^^^^\  put  your  cucumbers  in  this  as  you  gather  them  each  day 
from  the  vines.  ^  Cut  a  board  so  as  to  fit  inside  of  your  barrel;  bore 
holes  here  and  there  through  it,  and  put  this  board  on  the  cucum- 
bers with  a  weight  suflicient  to  keep  it  down.  Each  day  take  off 
the  scum  that  rises.  When  wanted  for  use,  take  out  what  is 
necessary  and  soak  them  two  or  three  days,  or  until  the  salt  is  out 

18 


194  PICKLES. 

of  them,  and  then  pour  boiling  spiced  vinegar  over  them.     A  red 
pepper  or  two  is  an  improvement  if  one  likes  hot  pickles. 

Pickled  Cabbage. 

Select  solid  heads,  slice  very  fine,  put  in  a  jar,  then  cover  with 
boiling  water;  when  cold,  drain  off  the  water,  and  season  with 
grated  horse  radish,  salt,  equal  parts  of  black  and  red  pepper,  cinna- 
mon and  whole  cloves. 

Pickled  Caulifloweb. 

Choose  such  as  are  firm,  yet  of  their  full  size;  cut  away  all  the 
leaves  and  pare  the  stalks;  pull  away  the  flowers  in  bunches,  steep 
in  brine  two  days,  then  drain  them,  wipe  them  dry,  and  put  them 
in  hot  pickle,  or  merely  infuse  for  three  days  three  ounces  of  curry 
powder  in  every  quart  of  vinegar. 

Pickled  Gattliflower,  No.  2. 

These  should  be  sliced  and  salted  for  two  or  three  days,  then 
drained,  and  spread  upon  a  dry  cloth  before  the  fire  for  twenty- 
four  hours;  after  which  they  are  put  into  a  jar,  and  covered  with 
"piced  vinegar. 

Picked  Cabbage,  No.  2. 

Slice  red  cabbage  very  thin;  put  on  it  a  little  coarse  salt,  and  let 
it  rest  twenty-four  hours  to  drain;  add  sliced  onions,  if  you  like 
them.  Boil  four  spoonfuls  pepper,  and  four  of  allspice  in  a  quart 
of  vinegar,  and  pour  it  over. 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 
Wash  with  care  your  cucumbers,  and  place  in  jars.      Make  a 
weak  brine  (a  handful  of  salt  to  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water). 
When  scalding  hot,  turn  over  the  cucumbers  and  cover;  repeat  this 
process  three  mornings  in  succession,  taking  care  to  skim  thor- 
oughly.     On  the   fourth   day  have   ready  a  porcelain  kettle  of 
vinegar,  to  which  has  been  added  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a 
walnut.    When  scalding  hot,  put  in  as  many  cucumbers  as  may  be 
sovered  with  the  vinegar;  do  not  let  them  boil,  btit  skim  out  aa 


PICKLES.  195 

floon  as  scalded  through,  and  replace  with  others,  adding  each  time 
a  small  piece  of  alum.  When  this  process  is  through,  throw  out 
the  vinegar,  and  replace  with  good  cider  or  white  wine  vinegar;  add 
spices,  mustard  seed  and  red  pepper.  Sort  the  pickles  and  place 
them  in  stone  or  glass  jars,  turn  over  the  hot  spiced  vinegar;  seal 
and  put  away  the  jars  not  wanted  for  immediate  use.  Pickles  thus 
prepared  are  fine  and  crisp  at  the  expiration  of  a  year.  Those  that 
are  kept  in  open  mouth  jars  may  be  covered  with  a  cloth,  which 
will  need  to  be  taken  off  and  rinsed  occasionally. 

Chow-Ciiow. 

Two  quarts  of  tomatoes,  two  white  onions,  half-dozen  green  pep- 
pers, one  dozen  cucumbers,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  all  chopped  fine; 
let  this  stand  over  night;  sprinkle  a  cup  of  salt  in  it.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  off  the  brine,  and  season  with  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  celery 
seed,  one  ounce  of  turmeric,  half  teaspoonf ul  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  all- 
spice, one  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one-quarter  ounce  cloves,  vinegar 
enough  to  cover,  and  boil  two  hours. 

Chow-Chow,  No.  2. 

Two  heads  of  cabbage,  two  heads  of  cauliflower,  one  dozen 
cucumbers,  six  roots  of  celery,  six  peppers,  one  quart  of  small  white 
onions,  two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  boil 
each  vegetable  separately  until  tender,  then  strain  them.  Two  ' 
gallons  of  vinegar,  one-fourth  pound  of  mustard,  one-fourth  pound 
of  mustard  seed,  one  pot  of  French  mustard,  one  ounce  of  cloves, 
two  ounces  of  turmeric;  put  the  vmegar  and  spices  into  a  kettle 
and  let  them  come  to  a  boil;  mix  the  vegetables  and  pour  over  the 
dressing. 

PiCKXKD  Cherries. 

Take  the  largest  and  ripest  red  cherries,  remove  the  stems,  have 
ready  a  large  glass  jar,  fijl  it  two-thirds  full  with  cherries,  and  fill 
up  to  the  top  with  best  vinegar;  keep  it  well  covered  and  no  boil- 


196  PICKLES. 

ing  or  gpice  is  necessary,  as  the  cherry  flavor  will  be  retained,  and 
the  cherries  will  not  shrivel. 

A  Ofil  pecK  ^r^gnaen  tomatoes,  sliced,  six  large  onio^  sliced; 
\sprinkle  over  them  one  cup  of  salt;  let  them  stand  over  night;  in 
the  morning  drain  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  in  two  parts  water 
and  one  part  vinegar;  drain  again;  take  two  quarts  vinegar,  one 
pound  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice; boil  together  for  fifteen  minutes  and  pour  over,  the  pickles. 

Pickled  Grapes.^-^  •'^^ 

Fill  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  bunches  of  nice 
grapes,  not  too  ripe;  fiU^jane-^rd  full  of  good,  cold  vinegar  and 
cover  tightly. 

Pickled  Grapes,  No.  2. 

When  grapes  are  not  quite  ripe,  but  dark  colored,  pick  from  the 
stem  and  wash;  put  in  bottles;  in  a  dish  put  sugar  and  vinegar, 
and  boil  a  few  minutes;  add  spices  to  taste;  boil  a  few  minutes, 
pour  over  the  grapes  and  seal  up  the  bottles. 

To  Harden  Pickles. 

After  they  are  taken  out  of  the  brine  take  a  lump  of  alum  and  a 
horse-radish  cut  in  strips;  put  this  in  the  vinegar,  and  it  will  make 
them  hard  and  crisp.  When  you  wish  to  make  a  few  cucumber 
pickles  quick,  take  good  cider  vinegar;  heat  it  boiling  hot  and  pour 
it  over  them.     When  cool,  they  are  ready  for  use. 

Lemon  Pickles. 

Wipe  six  lemons,  cut  each  into  eight  pieces;  put  on  them  a  pouna 
of  salt,  six  large  cloves  of  garlic,  two  ounces  of  horse-radish,  sliced 
thin,  likewise  of  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  Cayenne,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  each,  and  two  ounces  of  flour  of  mustard;  to  these  put  two 
quarts  of  vineg&n  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  well-tinned  sauce- 
pan; or,  which  is  better,  do  it  in  a  strong  jar,  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 


-  s. 


PICKU^'    /  .  .  197 

water;  or  set  the  jar  on  the  hoi;,  hearth  till  done.     Set  the  jar  by, 

and  stir  it  daily  for  six  weeks;  keep  the  jar  close  covered.    Put  it 

into  small  bottles. 

Mangoes  of  Melons. 

Take  green  melons  and  make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up 
an  egg;  then  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  melons,  keeping  them  under 
the  brine;  let  them  stand  five  or  six  days,  slit  them  down  on  one 
side,  take  out  all  the  seeds,  scrape  them  well  in  the  inside,  and  wash 
them  clean;  then  take  cloves,  garlic,  ginger,  nutmeg  and  pepper; 
put  all  these  proportionately  into  the  melons,  filling  them  up  with 
mustard  seed;  then  lay  them  into  an  earthern  pot,  and  take  one 
part  of  mustard  seed  and  two  parts  of  vinegar,  enough  to  cover 
them,  pouring  it  on  scalding  Hot.     Keep  them  closely  covered. 

iMTrATiON  Pickled  Mangoes. 

Large  cucumbers,  or  small  melons,  are  split  so  that  a  marrow- 
spoon  may  be  introduced,  and  the  seeds  scooped  out;  they  are  then 
parboiled  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  dried  on  a  cloth 
before  the  fire,  filled  with  mustard  seed  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  and 
then  covered  with  spiced  vinegar.     Real  mangoes  are  pickled  in  the 

same  way. 

Pickled  Nasturtiitms. 

Soak  for  three  days  in  strong  salt  and  water;  then  strain  and 

■  •  •  •  * 

pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them,  omitting  the  spice.     Vinegar  for 
any  pickle  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil  over  one  minute. 

Pickled  Onions. 

Small  silver-skinned  onions;  remove  outer  skin  so  that  each  one 

is  white  and  clean;  put  them  into  brine  that  will  float  an  egg  for 

three  days;  bring  vinegar  to  a  boiling  point,  add  a  little  mace  and 

whole  red  peppers  and  pour  hot  over  the  onions,  well  drained  from 

the  brine. 

Pickled  Onions,  No.  2. 

Peel  the  onions  and  let  them  lie  in  strong  salt  and  water  nine 
days,  changing  the  water  each  day^  then  put  them  into  jars  and 


4     /^ 

198  *      ..   ^'MbKLES. 

pour  fresh  salt  and  water  on  them,  this  time  boiling  hot;  when  it  is 
ooM,  take  them  out  and  put  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  after 
which  put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bottles  and  pour  over  them 
vinegar  prepared  in  the  following  manner:  Take  white  wine 
vinegar  and  boil  it  with  a  blade  of  maoe,  some  salt  and  ginger  in  it; 
when  cool,  pour  over  the  onions. 

PiCKLKS. 

An  excellent  way  to  make  pickles  that  will  keep  a  year  or  more 
is  to  drop  them  into  .boiling  hot  water,  but  not  boil  them;  let  them 
stay  ten  minutes,  wipe  them  dry,  and  drop  them  into  cold,  spiced 
vinegar,  and  they  will  not  need  to  be  put  in  salt  and  water. 

Stuffed  Pbppers. 

Chop  a  large  cabbage  finely,  add  one  large  spoonful  grated  horse- 
radish root  and  one  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed;  mix  all  this  well; 
cut  pieces  out  of  the  stem  ends  of  large  green  peppers,  large  as  a 
silver  dollar;  fill  with  the  filling  and  sew  the  piece  in  again  with 
cotton  thread;  then  take  vinegar  enough  to  cover;  spice  with 
cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  whole;  boil,  and  when  nearly  cold,  pour 
over  the  peppers;  no  salt  is  to  be  used.  Mangoes  are  pickled  and 
stuffed  in  the  same  manner. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

One  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped  fine;  one  quart  boiled  beets 
chopped  fine;  two  cups  of  sugar,  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  red  pepper,  one  cup  of  grated  horse-radish;  cover  with 
cold  vinegar  and  keep  from  the  air. 

Mixed  Pickles,  No.  2. 

Three  hundred  small  cucumbers,  four  green  peppers  sliced  fine, 
two  large  or  three  small  heads  cauliflower,  three  heads  of  white 
cabbage  sliced  fine,  nine  large  onions  sliced,  one  large  horse-radish, 
one  quart  green  beans  cut  one  inch  long,  one  quart  green  tomatoes 
sliced;  put  this  mixture  in  a  pretty  strong  brine  twenty-four  hours; 
drain  three  hours;  then  sprinkle-in  one-fourth  pound   black   and 


PICKlftfe.  V-     V  199 

one-fourth  pound  of  white  mustard  seed;  also  one  tablespoonful 
black  ground  pepper;  let  it  come  to  a  good  Boil  in  just  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  it,  adding  a  little  alum;  drain  again  and  when 
cold  put  in  one-half  pint  ground  mustard;  cover  the  whole  with 
good  cider  vinegar;  add  turmeric  enough  to  color  if  you  like. 

India  Pickles. 

Take  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  quarter  pound  mustard,  half 
ounce  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  allspice,  one 
ounce  turmeric,  one  ounce  ginger,  one  ounce  Cayenne  pepper,  hand- 
ful of  salt  and  the  same  of  sugar;  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  When 
cold  put  in  the  vegetables,  cucumbers,  onions,  cauliflower  cut  up 
small,  and  cover  closely.  If  the  liquid  should  seem  thin,  boil  again 
and  add  more  mustard  in  three  weeks  after  making. 

Pypeb  Picklbs.    . 

Salt  pickles  down  dry  for  ten  days,  soak  in  fresh  water  one  day; 
pour  off  water,  place  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  water  and 
vinegar  and  add  one  teaspoonful  pulverized  alum;  set  over  night 
on  a  stove  which  had  fire  in  it  during  the  day;  wash  and  put  in  a 
jar  with  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  horse-radish,  onions  or  garlic;  boil 
fresh  vinegar  and  pour  over  all.     Ready  for  use  in  two  weeks. 

Ragan  Pickles. 

Two  gallons  of  cabbage,  sliced  fine,  one  gallon  of  chopped  green 
tomatoes,  twelve  onions,  also  chopped,  one  gallon  best  vinegar, 
one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  half 
an  ounce  of  turmeric  powder,  one  ounce  celery  seed,  one  table- 
spoonful of  ground  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves, 
one-quarter  pound  white  mustard,  and  one  gill  of  salt.  Boil 
all  together,  stirring  well,  for  two  hodrs;  take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  spices,  then  put  in  air-tight  j^^s;  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place, 
and  this  delicious  pickle  will  keep  all  winter. 

SwKET  Pickles. 

To  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit  atlow  three  and  one-half  pounds 


200  4  ^  V  A«B1.ES. 

of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  two  ounces  whole  clo^l^HiMdoT(L 
two  of  stick  cinnamon.  This  is  for  peaches,  pears,  apples  or  mu.i,,,^  ^^^ 
melons.  Peaches,  pears,  and  apples  should  be  pared  only,  ^ot«|«iftijjj 
divided.  Then  in  each  stick  two  whole  cloves.  The  cinnamon  ^  j^^ 
should  be  boiled  in  the  vinegar.  Put  the  prepared  fruit  into  a  jar  ^^jj^^ 
and  pour  the  vinegar,  scalding  hot,  over  it.  Repeat  this  for  three  |^^ 
mornings.  These  sweet  pickles  will  be  found  delicious,  and  '^till  ^a 
keep  any  length  of  time.  The  melons  should  be  cut  in  strips  as  if 
to  serve  fresh  on  the  table,  and  should  not  be  too  ripe.  Simmer 
them  thirty  minutes  slowly  in  the  prepared  vhlegar,  and  they  will  1 

need  no  further  attention  except  to  keep  them  closely  covered,  and 
they  will  keep  good  a  year. 

SwKET  Apple  Pickle. 

Pickled  sweet  apples  can  be  made  by  taking  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
ounce  of  cloves;  ^are  the  apples,  leaving  them  whole;  boil  them  in 
part  of  the  vinegar  and  sugar  until  you  can  put  a  fork  through 
them;  take  them  out;  heat  the  remainder  of  the  vinegar  and  sugar 
and  pour  over  them.  Be  careful  not  to  boil  them  too  long  or  they 
will  break.  \ 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. 

Seven  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  three  and  a 
lalf  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  mace  and  cinnamon  mixed,  one 
Dunce  of  cloves,  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  together  and  stew 
an  hour. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. 

Slice  one  peck  of  tomatoes  into  a  jar  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over  each  layer;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  drain  off  the 
liquor;  put  the  tomatoes  into  a  kettle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  each 
of  the  following  spices:  Ground  ginger,  allspice,  cloves,  mace, 
cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  scraped  horse-radish,  twelve  small  or 
three  large  red  peppers,  three  onions,  a  cup  of  brown  sugar;  cover 
all  with  vinegar;  boil  slowly  f^r  U^ree  hours. 


PICKLES. 


20S 


Mr 

■a 

H 

It 


To  KsBP  T<^AT0B6  Whole. 

Fill  a  large  stone  jar  with  ripe  tomatoes,  then  add  a  few  whole 
doves  and  a  little  sugar;  cover  them  well  with  one-half  cold 
vinegar  and  half  water;  place  a  piece  of  flannel  over  the  jar  well 
down  in  the  vinegar,  then  tie  down  with  paper.  In  this  way  toma- 
toes can  be  kept  a  year.  Should  mildew  collect  on  the  flannel  it 
will  not  hurt  them  in  the  least. 

Pickled  Tomatoes. 

Let  the  tomatoes  be  thoroughly  ripe  and  let  them  lie  in  strong 
salt  and  water  for  three  or  four  days;  then  pu^  them  down  in 
layers  in  jars,  mixing  with  them  small  onions  and  pieces  of  horse- 
radish; then  pour  on  vinegar,  cold,  after  having  spiced  it.  Use 
plenty  of  spice,  cover  carefully,  and  let  stand  for  a  month  before 
using. 


j 


■t 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

PRESERVES. 

Pbesbbybd  Applbs  fob  Tea. 

AKE  a  n'tee  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  and  put  in  some  small 
pieces  of  ginger  root  or  the  yellow  of  orange  peel;  have 
some  good  firm  apples  pared  and  halved — pippins  are  best-r- 
and when  the  syrup  has  boiled  up  three  or  four  times  and  been 
«kimmed,  drop  in  the  apples  and  cook  until  transparent,  but  they 
must  not  go  to  pieces.  Let  them  be  quite  cold  before  eaten,  and 
good  cream  greatly  improves  it. 

Apple  Pbbsebves. 

Take  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  apples;  make 
a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  or  sliced 
lemon;  skim  off  all  scum  and  put  a  few  apples  at  a  time  into  the 
syrup  and  boil  until  they  are  transparent;  skim  out  and  put  in  a 
jar.  When  all  are  done,  boil  the  syrup  down  thick;  pour  boiling 
hot  over  the*  apples  and  cover  closely.  Well-flavored  fruit  not 
easily  broken  should  be  selected. 

Apbicot  Pbbsebves. 

Proceed  the  same  as  for  preserving  peaches,  save  that  apricots, 
having  a  smooth,  thin  skin,  do  not  require  paring. 

CrrsoN  Pbbsebves. 

Pare  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch  thick 
and  two  inokes  in  len^h;  weigh  them  and  put  into  a  preserving 
kettle   and  cook  themUntil  |hey  are  clear,  or  steam  them,  then 


PRESERVES.  205 

make  a  syrup  of  their  weight  in  sugar  with  water  and  add  two 
sliced  lemons  for  each  pound  of  fruit;  put  the  citron  into  the  syrup,  a 
part  at  a  time,  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes;  skim  out  and  put  into- 
a  jar.  When  all  has  been  thus  cooked,  boil  the  syrup  down  thick, 
and  pour  over  it.  Cover  closely  with  paper  which  the  air  cannot 
penetrate,  or  use  air-tight  jars. 

Cttbot^'  Preserves,  No.  2. 

First,  peel  and  cut  the  citron  in  pieces  an  inch  square;  then  boil 
in  water  until  soft;  drain  off  the  water  and  add  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  citron;  to  every  five  pounds  of  the  preserve  add 
one  pound  of  raisins,  one  lemon  sliced,  half  an  ounce  of  white 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon;  dissolve  the  sugar,  and  when 
hot,  add  the  fruit  and  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours. 

CUBBANT   Jk^ESEBVES. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  currants  and  seven  pounds  of  sugar;  pick  the 
stems  from  seven  pounds  of  the  currants  and  press  the  juice  from 
the  other  three  pounds;  when  the  juice  and  sugar  are  made  into  a 
hot  syrup,  put  in  the  currants  and  boil  until  thick  and  rich. 

Bbakdibb  Chebbies  ob  Bebbies. 

Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half  gill  of  water  for 
every  two  pounds  of  fruit.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring  to  prevent 
burning,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  while  warm — ^not  hot.  Let  them 
stand  together  an  hour;  put  all  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  heat 
slowly;  boil  five  minutes,  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skim- 
mer, and  boil  the  syrup  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  pint  of  brandy  for 
every  five  pounds  of  fruit;  pour  over  the  berries  hot,  and  seal. 

Lemon  Pbeseeves. 

One  pound  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  quarter  pound  of  butter,  six 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  well  beaten,  the  rind  of  two  lemons, 
grated,  and  the  juice  of  three.  Mix  together  and  let  it  simmer  till 
of  the  consistency  of  honey.  Be  careful  to  stir  i^  the  time  or  it 
will  bum. 


\ 


:206  PRESERVES. 

Pbbsebybd  Obanqbs. 

Take  any  number  of  oranges,  with  rather  more  than  their  weight 
in  white  sugar.  Slightly  grate  the  oranges  and  score  them  round 
and  round  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  cut  very  deep.  Put  them  in ' 
cold  water  for  three  days,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times  a 
day.  Tie  them  up  in  a  cloth,  boil  them  until  they  are  soft  enough 
fof  the  head  of  a  pin  to  penetrate  the  skin.  While  they  are  boiling 
place  the  sugar  on  the  fire,  with  rather  more  than  half  a  pint  of 
water  to  each  pound;  let  it  boil  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  strain  it 
through  muslin.  Put  the  oranges  into  the  syrup  till  it  jellies  and 
is  a  yellow  color.  Try  the  syrup  by  putting  some  to  cool.  It  must 
not  be  too  stiff.  The  syrup  need  not  cover  the  oranges,  but  they 
must  be  turned,  so  that  each  part  gets  thoroughly  done. 

Pbbsbbyed  Pinb-Applb. 

Pare,  cut  into  slices,  take  out  the  core  of  each  one,  and  weigh, 
allowing  pound  for  'pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Put  in  alternate 
layers  in  the  kettle  and  pour  in  water,  allowing  a  cup  to  each  pound 
of  sugar.  Heat  to  a  boil;  take  out  the  pine-apple  and  spread  upon 
dishes  in  the  sun.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  half  an  hour.  Return 
the  pine^apple  to  the  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  it  out, 
pack  in  vnde-mouth  jars,  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup;  cover  to  keep 
in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up,  first  putting  brandied  tissue 
paper  upon  the  top. 

To  Pbbsbbvb  Plums  ob  Chebbibs. 

Make  a  syrup  of  clean,  brown  sugar,  and  clarify  it;  when  per- 
fectly clear  and  boiling  hot,  pour  it  over  the  plums,  having  picked 
out  all  the  unsound  ones  and  stems.  Let  them  remain  in  the  syrup 
two  days,  then  drain  it  off;  make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it,  and  pour 
it  over  again;  let  them  remain  another  day  or  two,  then  put  them 
into  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  simmer  gently  until  the 
syrup  is  reduced,  and  thick  or  rich.  One  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  plums.    Small  damsons  are  very  fine  preserved,  as  are 


/I 


PRB8ERVBS.  207 

ohemes,  or  any  other  ripe  fruit.  Clarify  the  syrup,  and  when 
boiling  hot,  put  in  the  plums;  let  them  boil  very  gently  until  they 
are  cooked,  and  the  syrup  rich.  Put  them  in  pots  or  jars  the  next 
day;  secure  as  directed. 

Purple  Plums  Pbesbbyed. 

Take  an  equal  weight  of  fruit  and  nice  sugar.  Take  a  clean 
Btone  jar  and  fill  it  with  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  layers.  Cover  them 
and  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  water  over  the  fire.  Let  them  stand 
in  the  boiling  water  all  day,  filling  up  the  kettle  as  the  water  boils 
away.  If  at  any  time  they  seem  likely  to  ferment,  repeat  this  pro- 
cess.    It  is  a  simple  and  excellent  way  of  preserving  plums. 

To  Pbbsbbvb  Pbabs. 

Pare  them  very  thin,  and  simmer  in  a  thin  syrup;  let  them  lie  a 
day  or  two.  Make  the  syrup  richer  and.  simmer  again.  Repeat 
this  till  they  are  clear;  then  drain  and  dry  them  in  the  sun  or  a  cool 
oven  a  little  time;  or  they  may  be  kept  in  the  syrup  and  dried  as 
wanted,  which  makes  them  richer.  .  * 

Brandt  Pbachbs. 

Drop  the  peaches  in  hot  water,  let  them  remain  till  the  skin  can 
be  ripped  off;  make  a  thin  syrup,  and  let  it  cover  the  fruit;  boil 
the  fruit  till  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw;  take  it  out,  make  a 
very  rich  syrup,  and  add,  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  and  while 
it  is  still  hot,  an  equal  quantity  of  brandy.  Pour  this,  while  it  is 
still  warm,  over  the  peaches  in  the  jar.  They  must  be  covered 
with  it. 

Pbach  Prbsbbvbs. 

Take  any  nice  peaches  that  will  not  cook  to  pieces,  pare  them 
and  take  out  the  pits;  take  their  weight  in  sugar,  or,  if  they  are 
to  be  canned,  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and 
a  coffee-cup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  part  of  the  pits  in 
the  water  until  the  flavor  is  extracted,  then  remove  the  pits;  add 
.about  as  much  water  as  has  evaporated,  then  add  the  sugar;  skim 


208  PRESERVES. 

thoroughly,  then  add  a  small  quantity  of  fruit  at  a  time,  cook  slowly 
for  about  ten  minutes,  skim  out  into  a  jar,  then  add  more.  When 
all  are  done,  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  them.  The  next  day 
drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  again  and  pour  back;  do  the  same  for 
two  or  three  days,  then  make  them  air-tight  with  paper  as  directed 
for  jellies;  or,  if  to  be  sealed  in  cans,  the  first  boiling  is  sufficient. 
Cling  stone  peaches  are  preserved  the  same  way,  whole,  except  that 
Ihey  must  be  cooked  longer. 

QuiNCB  Pbeserybs. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  and  cut  into  halves  or  quarters,  as  suits 
the  size  of  your  jars;  let  them  stand  over' night  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  them;  in  the  morning  put  them  in  the  kettle  with 
the  same  water  and  let  them  cook  gently  until  you  can  just  stick  a 
fork  in  them;  take  the  fruit  out  with  a  skimmer,  weigh  it  and  to  each 
pound  of  fruit  allow  a  pound  of  sugar;  put  the  fruit  and  sugar  into 
the  kettle,  with  enough  of  the  water  to  make  a  good  syrup,  and  let 
them  boil  gently  until  they  are  clear;  take  out  carefully  with  the 
skimmer  and  put  into  the  jars;  fill  the  jars  to  the  top  with  the 
syrup.  If  there  is  a  large  quantity  of  fruit,  and  the  kettle  is  not 
large,  it  is  best  to  put  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  Sk  little  at  a  time. 

Preserving  Strawberries. 

Select  the  largest  and  finest  strawberries.  Hull  them,  weigh  and 
allow  to  each  pound  one  pound  of  the  best  double  refined  loaf  sugar 
finely  powdered.  Divide  the  sugar  into  two  equal  portions.  Put  a 
layer  of  strawberries  into  the  bottom  of  a  preserving  kettle  and  cover 
them  with  a  layer  of  sugar,  until  half  the  sugar  is  in;  next  set  the 
kettle  over  a  moderate  fire  and  let  it  boil  till  the  sugar  is  melted; 
then  put  in,  gradually,  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and,  after  it  is  all 
in,  let  it  boil  hard  for  five  minutes,  taking  off  the  scum  with  a  silver 
spoon;  but  there  will  be  little  or  no  scum  if  the  sugar  is  of  the  very 
best  quality.  Afterwards  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire  and  take 
out  the  strawbeiTies  very  carefully  in  a  spoon.  Spread  out  the 
strawberries  on  large,  flat  disttes,  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other,  and 


PRESERVES.  209 


^ 


set  them  immediately  in  a  cold  place  or  on  ice.  Hang  the  kettle 
again  on  the  fire,  and  give  the  syrup  one  boil  up,  skimming  it  if 
necessary.  Place  a  fine  strainer  over  the  top  of  a  mug  or  pitcher, 
and  pour  the  syrup  through  it.  Then  put  the  strawberries  into 
glass  jars  or  tumblers;  pour  into  each  an  equal  portion  of  the  syrup. 
Lay  at  the  top  a  round  piece  of  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy. 
Seal  the  jars  tightly. 

Raspberries  may  be  preserved  as  above;  also  large  ripe  goose- 
berries. To  each  pound  of  gooseberries  allow  one  and  a  half  pounds 
sugar.     Bury  them  in  a  box  of  sand,  or  keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

Gbebn  Tomato  Preserves. 

Eight  pounds  small,  green  tomatoes;    pierce  each  with  a  fork; 

seven  pounds  sugar,  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  ounce  of  ginger  and 

mace  mixed;  heat  all  together  slowly  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is 

dear;  remove  from  kettle  with  skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes  to 

cool;  boil  the  syrup  thick;  put  the  fruit  in  jars  and  cover  with  hot 

syrup. 

Ripe  Tomato  Preserves. 

Seven  pounds  round  yellow  or  egg  tomatoes,  peeled,  seven 
pounds  sugar,  juice  of  three  lemons;  let  them  stand  together  over 
night,  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  well;  put  in  the 
tomatoes,  and  boil  gently  twenty  minutes;  take  out  the  fruit  with 
a  perforated  skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes;  boil  the  syrup  down 
until  it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  taking  it  up,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons;  put  the  fruit  into  the  jars  and  fill  up  with  hot  syrup. 
When  cold,  seal  up. 

Spiced  Currants. 

Four  quarts  ripe  ctirrants,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  pint 
cider  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  and  a 
|ittle  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.      Boil  one  hour,  stirring  occasionally. 

Spiced  Gooseberries.  ^ 

Six  quarts  of  gooseberries,  ripe  or  green,  nine  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  pint  of  vinegar  (not  too  stroijg),   one  tablespoonful  each  of 


210  PRESERVES. 

cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  Put  the  berries  in  the  kettle  with 
half  the  sugar  and  a  little  water;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  When 
nearly  done,  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar;  set  it  off  the  fire  and  add 
the  spices  and  vinegar. 

Spiced  Gbapbs. 

Five  pounds  of  grapes,  three  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon and  allspice,  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves;  pulp  grapes;  boil 
until  tender;  cook  pulps  and  strain  through  a  sieve;  add  to  it  the 
spices,  put  in  sugar,  spices  and  vinegar  to  taste;  boil  thoroughly 
and  cool. 

Spiced  Nutmeg^  Melon. 

Select  melons  not  quite  ripe;  open,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  peel  and 
slice;  put  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  and,  for  five  pounds  of  fruit  take 
a  quart  of  vinegar  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar;  scald  vin- 
egar and  sugar  together,  and  pour  over  the  fruit;  scald  the  syrup 
and  pour  over  the  fruit  for  eight  successive  days.  On  the  ninth, 
add  one  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  one  of  whole  cloves,  and  one  of 
allspice;  scald  fruit,  vinegar  and  spices  together,  and  seal  up  in 
jars.  This  pickle  should  stand  two  or  three  months  before  using. 
Blue  plums  are  very  nice  prepared  in  this  way. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Five  pounds  peaches,  two  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one 
ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  mace.  Wipe  the  peaches  and 
boil  until  done  in  the  vinegar  and  sugar,  then  take  out,  put  in  spices, 
boil  well  and  pour  over. 

Spiced  Plumb. 

Spiced  plums  are  delicious  with  cold  meat.'  Cook  the  plums  in  a 
little  water  until  they  are  soft;  then,  so  far  as  possible,  remove  the 
stones,  sweeten  and  spice  to  your  taste,  and  boil  until  thick;  put  in 
large-mouthed  bottles  and  seal,  or  can  in  the  usual  way. 


PRESERVES.  211 . 

Spiced  PLUiis,  No.  2. 

Nine  pounds  blue  plums,  six  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar, 
•one  ounce  cinnamon;  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  together,  pour 
over  plums,  draw  off  next  morning  and  boil;  pour  back  on  plums; 
repeat  the  boiling  five  mornings,  the  last  time  boiling  the  fruit  about 
twenty  minutes. 


I 

i 


\ 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 


VEGETABLES. 

\tLK  following  ezcellont  remarks  on  the  cooking  of  vegetables 
are  from  the  pen  of  Miss  Corson: 
Spinach  is  an  excellent  dish  when  well  cooked;  take  two 
quarts,  wash,  boil  for  two  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water,  drain, 
chop  and  heat  in  a  frying-pan  for  two  minutes  with  an  ounce  each 
of  butter  and  flour;  half  a  pint  of  meat  broth  is  added,  the  com- 
pound is  stirred  and  heated  for  five  minutes,  and  served  with 
small  pieces  of  fried  bread.  Second  only  to  spinach  are  beet 
sprouts;  we  all  know  them  boiled,  but  after  they  are  boiled  they  gain 
in  flavor  by  being  fried  for  two  or  three  minutes  in  butter.  New 
cabbage  scalded  for  five  minutes  in  fast  boiling  water,  coarsely 
chopped,  sprinkled  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  gently  stewed 
for  five  minutes  with  milk  or  cream  enough  to  cover  it,  is  good. 
So,  too,  is  red  cabbage  sliced,  thrown  for  fifteen  minutes  into 
scalding  salted  water  and  vinegar,  then  drained  and  fried  five 
minutes  with  butter,  and  served  with  a  little  hot  meat  gravy.  Let- 
tuce, which  seems  devoted  to  "salad  days,"  is  excellent  stuffed;  it 
is  welk  washed  in  salted  cold  water,  the  roots  trimmed  off,  two 
tablespoonf uls  of  cooked  force-meat  of  any  kind,  or  chopped  cold 
meat  highly  seasoned,  inclosed  within  the  leaves,  which  are  bound 
together  with  tape  or  strips  6f  cloth;  several  heads  thus  prepared 
are  placed  in  a  saucepan,  covered  with  broth  or  cold  gravy  well 
seasoned,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  simmer  about  five  minutes;  the 
tapes  are  then  removed  and  the  lettuce  heads  and  sauce  are  served 
hot.     A  link  between  cabbage  and  lettuce  are  Brussels  sprouts, 

212 


I 


VEGETABLES.  213 

those  tender,  baby  cabbages,  which,  stewed  in  oream,  or  quickly 
fried  in  butter,  almost  incline  one's  thoughts  to  vegetarianism. 

Beets  are  familiar  enough  boiled  and  sliced,  either  served  hot 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  pickled,  but  a  novelty  is  a  beet 
pudding,  made  by  mixing  a  pint  of  cooked  sugar  beets,  chopped, 
with  four  eggs,  a  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonf  pi  of  butter,  and  baking  them  about  half  an  hour.  Cold  boiled 
beets  sliced  and  fried  with  butter  are  palatable;  to  cook  them  so 
that  none  of  their  color  shall  be  lost,  carefully  wash  them  without 
breaking  the  skin  or  cutting  off  the  roots  or  stalks,  and  boil  them 
until  tender,  about  an  hour,  in  boiling  salted  water. 

Turnips,  either  white  or  yellow,  stewed  in  gravy,  are  excellent. 
Choose  a  quart  of  small,  even  size;  peel  them;  boil  fifteen  minutes  in 
well  salted  boiling  water;  drain  them;  put  them  into  a  frying-pan 
with  sufElcient  butter  to  prevent  burning;  brown  them;  stir  in  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  flour;  cover  them  with  hot  water;  add  a  palatable 
seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  them  gently  until  tender. 
Or  peel  and  cut  them  in  small  regular  pieces;  brown  them  over  the 
fire  with  a  little  butter  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  sugar;  add  salt 
and  pepper  and  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  gently  stew 
them  until  tender;  serve  them  hot. 

Parsnips  are  not  sufficiently  appreciated,  perhaps  because  of  their 
too  sweet  taste;  but  this  can  be  overcome  to  a  palatable  extent  by 
judicious  cookery;  they  are  excellent  when  sliced,  after  boiling,  and 
warmed  in  a  sauce  made  by  mixing  flour,  butter  and  milk,  over  the 
fire,  and  seasoning  it  with  salt  and  pepper;  as  soon  as  warm  they 
are  served  with  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon 
juice.  For  parsnips  fried  brown  in  an  old-fashioned  iron  pot  with 
slices  of  salt  pork  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  several  good 
words  might  be  said. 

Carrots  boiled  and  mashed  and  warmed  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  deserve  to  be  known;  or  sliced  and  quickly  browned  in  butter; 
or  tossed  for  five  minutes  over  the  fire  with  chopped  onion,  parsley, 
butter,  seasonings  and  sufficient  gravy  to  moisten  them;  or  boiled. 


214  VEGETABLES. 

quartered,  heated  with  cream,  seasoned,  and,  at  the  moment  of 
serving,  thickened  with  the  yolk  of  eggs. 

Onions  are  capital  when  sliced  and  quickly  fried  in  plenty  of 
smoking  hot  fat,  or  roasted  whole  until  tender,  and  served  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  or  chosen  while  still  small,  carefully  peeled 
without  breaking,  browned  in  butter,  and  then  simmered  tender  with 
just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them;  or  boiled  tender  in  broth 
and  then  heated  five  minutes  in  nicely  seasoned  cream. 

Oyster  plant,  scraped  under  cold  water,  boiled  tender  in  salted 
water  containing  a  trace  of  vinegar,  and  then  heated  with  a  little 
highly  seasoned  melted  butter,  is  excellent;  the  tender  leaves  which  it 
often  bears  make  a  nice  salad.  Somewhat  like  oyster  plant  are 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  which  are  good  and  cheap  in  this  market, 
like  oyster  plant,  they  must  be  peeled  under  water,  boiled  tender, 
and  then  served  with  melted  butter,  or  quickly  browned  in  butter, 
either  plain  or  with  chopped  herbs,  or  served  with  an  acid  sauce  of 
any  kind. 

Celery  we  know  best  in  its  uncooked  state,  but  it  is  very  good 
stewed  in  any  brown  or  white  gravy  or  sauce,  or  rolled  in  fritter 
batter  and  fried  brown. 

Squash  and  pumpkin  are  very  good  either  boiled,  sliced,  and 
broiled  or  fried,  or  made  into  fritters  like  oyster  plant. 

Potatoes,  most  important  of  all  hardy  vegetables.  Lives  there 
a  cook  with  soul  so  dead  as  not  to  be  willing  to  expend  all  the 
powers  of  fire,  water  and  salt  to  produce  mealy  potatoes  ?  If  so, 
the  writing  of  her  epitaph  would  be  a  cheerful  task.  And  if 
cold  ones  are  left  they  can  rehabilitate  themselves  in  favor  by 
appearing  chopped,  moistened  with  white  sauce  or  cream,  and 
either  fried  in  butter  or  baked  quickly,  with  a  covering  of 
bread  crumbs.  Steam-fried,  that  is  sliced  raw,  put  into  a  covered 
pan  over  the  fire,  with  butter  and  seasoning,  and  kept  covered 
until  tender,  with  only  enough  stirring  to  prevent  burning,  they  are 
capital.  To  fry  then!  Lyonnaise  style  they  are  cooled  in  their 
jackets   to   keep  them  whole,  sliced  about   a   quarter   of  an   inch 


VEGETABLES.  215 

thick,  browned  in  batter  with  a  little  sliced  onion,  sprinkled  with 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  served  hot.  Larded,  they 
have  bits  of  fat  ham  or  bacon  inserted  in  them,  and  are  baked 
tender.  Note  well  that  the  more  expeditiously  a  baked  potato  is 
cooked  and  eaten  the  better  it  will  be. 

Boiling  is  the  ordinary  mode  of  cooking  vegetables.  The  rule  is 
to  throw  them  (whether  the  roots,  flowers,  foliage,  or  unripe  seeds) 
into  cold  water,  after  trimming  or  other  preparation;  to  let  them 
lie  there,  if  shriveled  or  drooping,  until  they  have  recovered  their 
natural  crispness;  then  to  throw  them  into  soft  water,  or,  if  hard 
water,  made  soft  by  the  addition  of  a  small  pinch  of  carbonate  of 
soda;  to  keep  them  boiling  without  the  lid  (with  roots  this  is  imma- 
terial, though  it  is  one  means  of  keeping  greens  a  good  color) ;  to 
remove  all  scum  as  it  rises;  to  cook  them  enough;  and  to  take  them 
up  as  soon  as  they  are  done  through,  instead  of  leaving  them  to 
seethe,  and  lose  their  natural  juices  in  the  water. 

To  this  there  are  exceptions.  Peas  and  beans  may  be  thrown 
into  cold  water  when  they  are  dried,  but  when  green  are  best  not 
thrown  into  cold  water;  and  the  former  should  be  boiled  in  the 
least  quantity  of  water  possible.  Potatoes  require  different  treat- 
ment, according  to  their  kind  and  the  soil  in  which  they  grew. 
Very  mealy  or  large  potatoes,  if  thrown  into  boiling  water,  will  fall 
to  pieces  outside,  while  still  raw  in  the  center;  while  small,  firm,  or 
waxy  varieties  are  best  thrown  into  boiling  salt  water.  If  you  buy 
of  the  grower,  he  will  often  tell  you  what  treatment  suits  thenu 
At  any  rate,  an  experiment  both  ways  will  soon  settle  the  difficulty. 
But  the  qualities  of  potatoes  vary,  not  only  with  soil  and  kind, 
but  also  with  the  period  in  the  season.  We  have  known  potatoes, 
waxy  and  watery  when  first  dug  up,  become  light  and  floury  in 
February  and  March,  after  the  eyes  have  sprouted  three  or  four 
inches.  The  reason  is  plain:  Superabundant  moisture  had  been 
drawn  off,  and  the  starch,  which  forms  one  of  its  component  ele- 
ments, had  had  time  to  mature  itself. 


i 


216  VEGETABLES. 

How  TO  Cook  Potatoes. 

It  is  well  known  that  a  good  potato  may  be  spoiled  by  bad  cook- 
ing; and  by  good  management  a  bad  one  may  be  rendered  com- 
paratively good.  In  fact,  no  vegetable  depends  more  on  the  cooking 
than  a  potato.  In  th€  first  place,  if  the  skin  is  taken  off  them 
before  boiling,  it  should  not  be  peeled,  but  scraped,  for  the  follow- 
ing reasons:  If  peeled,  it  is  reduced  in  size  considerably;  besides, 
the  outside  removed  is  the  very  best'  part  of  the  root.  An  iron 
saucepan  is  preferable  to  a  tin  one  for  cooking  them,  as  it  prevents 
their  boiling  so  fast;  but  the  best  way  is,  first  to  wash  them  very 
clean,  then  to  put  them  on  the  fire  with  just  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  them;  when  it  has  begun  to  boil,  throw  in  a. handful  of  salt, 
and  add  a  pint  of  cold  yater,  which  checks  their  boiling  and  gives 
them  time  to  be  done  through,  without  allowing  them  to  crack. 
As  soon  as  done,  rather  under  than  over,  which  may  be  ascertained 
with  a  fork,  pour  the  water  off  from  them,  and  replace  the  pan  on 
the  fire  for  a  short  time,  until  the  remaining  moisture  is  evaporated. 
If  not  immediately  wanted,  do  not  place  the  lid  upon  them,  or  the 
steam  will  be  confined,  but  cover  them  with  a  cloth.  New  potatoes 
require  great  caution  not  to  over-boil  them,  or  they  will  be  tasteless 

and  watery.    • 

Artichokes  (Jebusalbh),  Fbied. 

Pare  and  cut  the  artichokes  into  slices  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
in  thickness,  and  fry  them  in  sufficient  boiling  oil  or  lard  for  them 
to  swim  in  until  they  are  a  rich  brown.  Strew  a  little  salt  over 
them,  pik  high  on  a  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

They  may  also  be  peeled  and  cut  pear-shaped  and  stewed  in  a 
little  salt  water,  to  which  a  little  butter  has  been  added,  and  used 
as  a  garnish  for  a  dish  of  mashed  potatoes. 

AspABAGus,  Boiled. 

Choose  bunches  of  asparagus  which  have  been  cut  fresh  and  the 
heads  straight.  If  the  cut  end  is  brown  and  dry,  and  the  heads 
bent  on  one  side,  the  asparagus  is  stale.     It  may  be  kept  a  day  or 


VEGETABLES.  217 

two  with  the  stalks  in  cold  water,  but  is  muc^  better  fresh.  Scrape 
off  the  white  skin  from  the  lower  end,  and  cut  the  stalks  of  equal 
length;  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  cook  them;  put 
a  handful  of  salt  into  a  gallon  of  water,  and  let  it  boil;  tie  the 
asparagus  into  bundles  and  put  them  into  it;  toast  a  slice  of  bread 
brown  on  each  side,  dip  it  in  the  water,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish«  When 
the  asparagus  is  sufficiently  cooked,  dish  it  on  the  toast,  leaving  the 
white  ends  outward  each  way.     Serve  with  melted  butter. 

AspABAGUS,  Fricasseed. 

Wash  twenty-five  heads  of  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tender  portion 
and  lay  them  into  cold  water  until  they  are  required*  Drain  them 
and  chop  them  with  a  young  head  of  lettuce,  half  a  head  of  endive 
and  a  small  onion.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a 
flaucepan,  melt  it,  then  mix  with  it  smoothly  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  stock.  Add  the  chopped  vegetables,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  all  stew  gently  until  the  sauce  is  thick  and 
good*    Serve  hot.     Time  to  stew,  half  an  hour. 

Egg  Bboccoli. 

Take  half  a  dozen  heads  of  broccoli,  cut  off  the  small  shoots  or 
blossoms  and  lay  them  aside  for  frying;  trim  the  stifilks  short  and 
pare  off  the  rough  rind  up  to  the  head;  wash  them  well,  and  lay 
them  in  salt  water  for  an  hour;  then  put  them  into  plenty  of  boil- 
ing water  (salted)  and  let  them  boil  fast  till  quite  tender.  '  Put  two 
ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is 
melted;  then  add  gradually  six  or  eight  well-beaten  eggs,  and  stir 
the  mixture  until  it  is  thick  and  smooth.  Lay  the  broccoli  in  the 
center  of  a  large  dish,  pour  the  egg  around  it,  and  having  fried  the 
broccoli  blossoms,  arrange  them  in  a  circle  near  the  edge  of  the 
dish. 

Beets  and  Potatoes. 

One  of  the  most  delicious  ways  to  serve  these  early  vegetables  is 
this:  Take  new  potatoes  and  young  beets,  boil  until  done  in  sepa- 
rate kettles,  then  slice  into  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  put  on 


218  VEGETABLES. 

the  table;  first  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  little  lumps  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  beets,  treated  in  the 
same  way,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  then  pour  over  all  a  very 
little  sweet  cream  or  milk. 

Lima  Bbanb. 

Shell,  wash,  and  put  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt;  when 
boiled  tender,  drain  and  season  them,  and  either  dress  with  cream 
or  large  lump  of  butter,  and  let  eimmer  for  a  few  moments. 

Stbino  Beans. 

Choose  fine  young  beans,  and  be  careful  they  are  the  right  sort* 
Th^  best  kind  is  the  case-knife,  because  they  have  no  strings  and 
need  only  to  be  broken  in  two  and  not  cut.  Should  these  not  be 
obtainable  take  the  youngest  that  can  be  procured;  remove  the 
thread  or  string  that  runs  along  the  pod,  then  cut  them  in  a  slanting 
direction  lengthwise  in  very  thin  slices,  throw  them  into  boiling 
water  well  salted,  and  to  preserve  their  color  boil  without  the  lid  of 
the  saucepan.  When  tender,  drain  in  a  colander,  put  in  a  small  piece 
of  butter  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  give  the  whole  a  shake.  Thia 
dish  may  be  varied  in  a  great  many  ways  and  with  great  success. 
Cold  beans,  with  oil  and  vinegar,  make  an  excellent  and  refreshing 
salad.  They  may  also,  when  cooked  and  drained,  be  mixed  with 
some  good  brown  gravy,  and  served  alone  as  a  course  after  the 
meat. 

Bbussels  Spbouts. 

Pick,  trim,  and  wash  a  number  of  sprouts.  Put  them  into  plenty 
of  fast  boiling  water;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  keep  the  sauce- 
pan uncovered  and  boil  very  fast  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  as 
soon  as  done  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

Stewkd  Carrots. 

Scrape  and  boil  whole  forty-five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  into 
round  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  on  a  cup  of  weak 
broth — a  little  soup  if  you  have  it — ^and  cook  half  an  hour.     Then 


VEGETABLES.  21^ 

add  three  or  f onr  tablespoonf  als  of  milk,  a  lump  of  bntter  rolled  in 
floor,  with  seasoning  to  taste.    Boil  up  and  dish. 

Cblbbt. 

Wash,  trim,  and  scrape  the  stalks,  selecting  those  that  are  white 
and  tender.  Crisp  by  leaving  in  ice  cpld  water  until  they  are 
wanted  for  the  table.  Arrange  neatly  in  a  celery  glass.  Pass 
between  the  oysters  and  the  meat. 

Fbied  Celeby. 

Boil  the  celery  entire  until  tender;  drain  it,  divide  into  small 
pieces  and  fry  in  dripping  until  lightly  browned. 

Stewed  Celeby. 

Clean  the  heads  thoroughly.  Take  off  the  coarse,  green,  outer 
leaves.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  and  stew  in  a  little  broth.  When 
tender,  add  some  rich  cream,  a  little  flour,  and  butter  enough  to 
thicken  the  cream.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg 
if  that  is  agreeable. 

Cbeam  Cabbage. 

Beat  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
half  Clip  of  vinegar,  butter  size  gf  an  egg,  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  boils; 
then  stir  in  one  cup  of  cream;  let  it  boil,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage 
while  hot. 

Cabbage  a  la  Caulifloweb. 

Cut  the  cabbage  flne  as  for  slaw;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  cover 
with  water  and  keep  closely  covered;  when  tender,  drain  off  the 
water;  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter  with  a  piece  of  salt,  one-half 
a  cup  of  cream,  or  one  cup  of  milk.  Leave  on  the  stove  a  few 
minutes  before  serving. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cut  off  the  stalk,  remove  the  faded  and  outer  leaves,  and  halve, 
or,  if  large,  quarter  the  cabbages;    wash  them  thoroughly  and  lay 


220  VEGBTABLEa 


\ 


them  for  a  few  minutes  in  water,  to  which  a  tablespoonf ul  of  vin- 
egar has  been  added,  to  draw  out  any  insects  that  may  be  lodging 
under  the  .leaves.  Drain  them  in  a  colander;  have  ready  a  large 
pan  of  boiling  hot  water,  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt  and  a  small 
piece  of  soda  in  it,  and  let  the  cabbage  boil  quickly  until  tender, 
leaving  the  saucepan  uncovered.  Take  them  up  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  drain  them  thoroughly  and  serve.  Time  to  boil:  young  sum- 
mer cabbages,  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  large  cabbages,  half  an 

hour  or  more. 

Baked  Cabbage. 

Cook  as  for  boiled  cabbage,  after  which  drain  and  set  aside  until 

cold.     Chop  fine,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter, 

pepper,  salt,  three  tablespoonf uls  rich  cream;  stir  well  and  bake  in 

a  buttered  dish  until  brown.    Eat  hot. 

Hot  Slaw. 
One  small,  firm  head  of  cabbage,  shred  fine,  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
one  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  one 
-saltspoonf  ul  of  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt.  Put  the  vinegar  and 
all  the  other  ingredients  for  the  dressing,  except  the  cream,  in  a 
■saucepan  and  heat  to  a  boil;  pour  scalding  hot  over  the  cabbage; 
return  to  the  saucepan,  and  stir  and  toss  until  all  is  smoking  again; 
take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  cream,  turn  into  a  covered  dish  and 
•set  in  hot  water  ten  minutes  before  you  send  to  the  table. 

Catoifloweb. 
This  favorite  vegetable  should  be  cut  early,  while  the  dew  is  still 
upon  it;  choose  those  that  are  close  and  white,  and  of  medium  size. 
Whiteness  is  a  sign  of  quality  and  freshness.     Great  care  should  be  I 

taken  that  there  are  no  caterpillars  about  the  stalk,  and  to  insure 
this,  lay  the  vegetable  with  its  head  downward  in  cold  salt  and  | 

water  for  an  hour  before  boiling  it;  or,  better  still,  in  cold  vinegar 
and  water.     Trim  away  the  outer  leaves,  and  cut  the  stalks  quite  J 

close.  Cauliflowers  are  in  season  from  the  middle  of  June  till  the 
aniddle  of  November. 


VEGETABLES.  221 

Cauliflower  a  la  Fbancaise. 

After  preparing  as  above,  cut  the  cauliflower  into  quarters  and 
put  into  a  stewpan  and  boil  until  tender;  drain  and  arrange  it 
neatly  on  a  dish.     Pour  over  it  melted  butter. 

Cauliploweb  with  Stttpping. 

Take  a  saucepan  tbe  exact  size  of  the  dish  intended  to  be  used. 
Cleanse  a  large,  firm,  white  cauliflower  and  cut  it  into  sprigs;  throw 
those  into  boiling  salt  water  for  two  minutes;  then  take  them  out,^ 
drain,  and  pack  them  tightly  with  the  heads  downwards,  in  the 
saucepan,  the  bottom  of  which  must  have  been  previously  covered 
with  thin  slices  of  bacon;  fill  up  the  vacant  spaces  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  minced  veal,  the  same  of 
beef  suet,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced 
chives,  and  a  dozen  small  mushrooms,  chopped  fine.  Strew  these 
ingredients  over  the  cauliflowers  in  alternate  layers,  and  pour  over 
them  three  well-beaten  eggs.  When  these  are  well  soaked,  add 
sufficient  nicely-flavored  stock  to  cover  the  whole;  simmer  gently 
till  the  cauliflowers  are  tender,  and  the  sauce  very  much  reduced; 
then  turn  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  upside  down  on  a  hot  dish,, 
and  the  cauliflowers  will  be  found  standing  in  a  savory  mixture. 

Cauliflowee  with  Sauce. 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower — ^tied  in  netting — in  hot  salted  water, 
from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes;  drain,  serve  in  a  deep  dish 
with  the  flower  upwards  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  drawn  butter  in 
which  has  been  stirred  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  French  mustard,  mixed  up  well  with  the  sauce^ 

Corn,  for  Winter  Use. 

Cut  the  com  from  the  cob  (raw)  before  it  gets  too  hard;  to  each 
gallon  of  cut  com  add  two  scant  cups  of  salt,  pack  tightly  in  a  jar 
(don't  be  afraid  of  getting  the  jar  too  large),  cover  with  a  white 
cloth,  put  a  heavy  weight  to  keep  the  com  under  the  brine  which 


222  VEGETABLES. 

«oon  forms;  now  the  most  important  part  is  to  wash  the  cloth  every 
moming  for  two  weeks,  or  the  com  will  taste  queerly.  If  the  com 
is  too  salty,  freshen  before  cooking.  This  is  as  good  as  canned 
<;om,  and  is  mach  easier  put  up.  Put  tomatoes  in  jugs  and  seal 
with  good  corks  and  sealing  wax;  get  a  large  funnel,  and  you  can 
put  up  as  fast  and  as  much  as  you  please. 

Bakkd  Cobn. 

Grate  one  dozen  ears  sweet  corn;  one  cup  milk,  small  piece  but- 
ter; salt,  and  bake  in  pudding  dish  one  hour. 

Obeen  Cobn  on  the  Cob. 

Take  off  the  outside  leaves  and  the  silk,  letting  the  innermost 
leaves  remain  on  until  after  the  com  is  boiled,  which  renders  the 
com  much  sweeter.  Boil  for  half  an  hour  in  plenty  of  water,  drain, 
and,  after  removing  the  leaves,  serve. 

CoBN  Otstebs. 

Eight  ears  of  sweet  com,  grated;  two  cups  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
fialt  and  pepper;  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan  and  drop  the  mixture  into  the  hot 
butter — a  spoonful  in  a  place;  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot  for 
breakfast  or  as  a  side  dish  for  dinner. 

Stewed  Cobn. 

Stew  one  quart  of  canned  com  in  its  own  liquor,  setting  the 
vessel  containing  it  in  an  outer  one  of  hot  water;  should  the  com 
be  dry,  add  a  little  cold  water;  when  tender,  pour  in  enough  milk 
to  cover  the  com,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  put  in  a  tablespoonf ul  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently,  stirring  well, 
three  or  four  minutes  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish.  Keep  the  vessel 
^containing  the  com  closely  covered  while  it  is  cooking;  the  steam 
facilitates  the  process  and  preserves  the  color  of  the  com. 

Stewed  Cucumbebs. 
Cut  the  cucumbers  fully  half  an  inch  thick  right  through;  put 


/ 


■ 


VEGETABLES.  223 

tbem  in  a  saucepan,  jast  covering  them  with  hot  water,  and  let  them 

boil  slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until  tender,  but  not  so  as 

to  break  them;  then  drain  them ;  you  want  now  a  pint  of  good  cream, 

and  put  your  cream,  with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  butter,  in  a  saucepan, 

and  when  it  is  warm  put  in  the  cucumbers;  season  with  a  little  salt 

and  white  pepper,  cook  five  minutes,  shaking  the  saucepan  all  the 

time,  and  serve  hot.     It  is  just  as  delicate  as  asparagus,  and  a  very 

nice  dish  indeed. 

Cklkby. 

This  vegetable  imparts  an  agreeable  and  peculiar  flavor  to  soups, 
sauces,  etc.  It  is  generally  eaten  raw,  the  brittle  stalks  with  salt; 
but  there  are  many  ways  in  which  it  may  be  nicely  prepared,  and 
when  cooked  it  is  more  digestible  and  equally  palatable.  When 
the  roots  are  not  to  be  had,  the  pounded  seed  is  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  flavoring.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  February,  and 
is  better  when  it  has  been  touched  by  the  frost. 

Fried  Celery. 
Cold  boiled  celery  will  answer  for  this  purpose.     Split  the  heads 
and  dip  them  into  clarified  butter,  or  dip  them  into  a  batter,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.     Garnish  the  dish  prettily  with  parsley. 

Carrots. 

This  vegetable  should  be  served  with  boiled  beef.  When  the 
carrots  are  young  they  should  be  washed  and  rubbed,  not  scraped, 
before  cooking,  then  rubbed  with  a  clean,  coarse  cloth  after  boiling. 
Young  carrots  need  to  be  cooked  about  half  an  hour,,  and  full  grown 
ones  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  They  are  excellent 
for  flavoring,  and  contain  a  great  amount  of  nourishment. 

Carrots  Boiled. 

Wash  and  prepare  the  carrots.  Throw  them  into  plenty  of 
boiling  water  with  salt.  Keep  them  boiling  till  tender,  and  serve 
with  melted  butter;  or  they  may  be  boiled  with  beef  and  a  few 
placed  round  the  dish  to  garnish,  and  the  rest  sent  to  table  in  a 
tureen. 


I 


224  YEGETABLBS. 

I 

Dandelions. 

Cut  off  the  leaves,  pick  over  carefully,  wash  thoroughly,  put  into 
boiling  water  and  boil  a  half  hour;  drain  well  and  put  into  s^ted 
boiling  water  and  boil  till  tender.  When  done  drain  in  a  colander, 
season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  or  they  may  be  boiled  with 
salt  pork  or  corned  beef,  omitting  the  butter.  They  are  good  from 
early  spring  until  they  blossom. 

Endive  Stewbd.* 

Strip  off  the  outer  green  leaves  from  the  heads  of  endive.  Wash 
thoroughly,  soak  in  salted  water  to  dislodge  the  insects;  then  drain 
and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  water  salted  slightly.  Have 
ready  a  steMrpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  drain  the  endive  and  put 
It  into  the  pan,  and  add  a  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt,  pepper,  and  a  gill  of 
cream.     Serve  hot. 

Egg  Plant. 

Pare  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick;  sprinkle  with  salt;  cover 
and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  Rinse  in  clear  cold  water;  wipe  each 
slice  dry;  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 

Egg  Plant,  No.  2. 

Boil  until  quite  tender,  then  mash  and  add  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
salt,  onions  and  butter  or  lard;  put  in  a  pan  and  bake  until  brown. 
You  can  put  in  all  these  things  to  your  own  taste,  then  you  can 
boil  and  mash  as  before;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a 
little  flour  or  meal  as  you  like  best.  Make  into  little  cakes  and  fry.. 
These  are  nice.  They  should  be  picked  when  full  grown,  but 
before  they  are  ripe. 

Fbicassebd  Egg  Plant. 

Having  peeled  and  sliced  the  egg  plants,  boil  them  in  water  with 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  until  they  are  thoroughly  cooked.  Drain  off 
the  water,  pour  in  sufficient  milk  to  cover  the  slices,  and  add  a  few 


\ 


VEGETABLES.  225 

bits  of  batter  rolled  in  flour;  let  it  simmer  gently,  shaJdng  the  pan 
over  the  fire  till  the  sauce  is  thick,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  or  three  eggs  just  before  it  is  served. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plants. 

Halve  and  parboil.  When  soft  enough  to  stick  with  a  fork 
remove  from  the  water  and  let  cool.  Then  cut  out  the  inside,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  skin.  Next  take  bread  that  has  been 
previously  soaked  in  water.  Squeeze  ad  dry  as  possible  and  mix 
with  the  pulp  of  the  vegetable.  Add  to  that  a  good  sized  tomato, 
the  juice  of  an  onion,  a  little  parsley  and  two  or  three  eggs,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  thd  filling  is  ready  for  use.  Before 
putting  into  the  stove  sprinkle  with  toasted  bread  crumbs.  An- 
other and  quicker  way  to  make  the  stuffing  is  to  mix  the  pulp  with 
the  juice  of  an  onion,  a  tomato  and  a  couple  of  eggs.  Thicken  with 
boiled  rice  and  season  to  taste. 

Gablic. 

Garlic  requires  to  be  used  most  judiciously,  or  it  will  spoil  what- 
ever is  cooked  with  it.  If  used  carefully,  however,  it  will  impart  a 
most  delicious  flavor  to  salads  and  sauces;  but  it  is  so  strong  that, 
for  many  dishes,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  rub  the  dish  which  is  to 
be  sent  to  table  sharply  round  with  a  slice  of  it;  or,  better  still,  to 
rub  it  on  a  crust  of  bread,  and  put  the  bread  into  the  soup,  etc.,  for 
a  few  minutes.  A  very  general  prejudice  exists  against  garlic, 
probably  on  account  of  its  being  used  in  the  same  way  as  an  onion. 
If  it  is  desired  to  diminish  the  strength  of  the  flavor,  this  may  be 
done  by  boiling  the  garlic  in  two  or  three  waters. 

Gbeens,  Stewed. 
Take  a  bunch  of  fresh  greens,  wash  in  several  waters;  drain  them 
well  and  throw  them  into  plenty  of  fast  boiling  water,  salted  and 
flkimmed,  and  boil  them  for  ten  minutes.  Take  them  up,  press  the 
water  from  them,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  for  half  an  hour; 
drain  themi,  cover  with  stock,  and  add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  an  oniony 


226  YEGETABLEa 

one  clove^  a  slice  of  fat  bacon,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.     Stew 
very  gently  until  tender.     Serve  with  mutton,  lamb,  or  veal, 

HOBSB-BADISH   AS   OaBNTSH. 

Wash  and  scrub  the  horse-radish  thoroughly;  let  it  lie  for  an  hour 
in  cold  water;  then  scrape  it  very  finely  with  a  sharp  knife;  arrange 
it  in  little  bunches  around  the  dish,  or,  if  there  is  gravy  with  the 
meat,  put  it  in  a  small  glass  dish  near  the  carver. 

liBTTUCB. 

There  are  two  sorts  of  lettuces,  the  cabbage  and  the  cos.  They 
are  chiefly  used  for  salad,  but  may  be  also  boiled  or  stewed,  and 
served  as  a  vegetable.  They  may  be  had  all  the  year,  but  are  in 
full  season  from  April  to  September. 

Lettuck,  Stuffed. 

Wash  four  or  five  large  heads  of  lettuce;  boil  them  in  plenty  of 
salt  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  throw  them  at  once  into  cold 
water,  and  afterwards  let  them  drain.  Open  them,  fill  them  with 
^ood  .veal  forcemeat,  tie  the  ends  securely,  and  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  as  much  good  gravy  as  will  cover  them,  a  teaspoonf ul 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  vinegar. 
Simmer  gently  for  another  fifteen  minutes,  remove  the  strings, 
place  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  around  them. 

Macaroni. 

Three  long  sticks  of  macaroni,  broken  in  small  pieces;  soak  in  a 
pint  of  milk  two  hours;  grate  bread  and  dried  cheese.  Put  a  layer 
<of  macaroni  in  a  pudding  dish;  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  then 
sprinkle  the  bread  and  cheese  crumbs  over  it,  and  so  continue  until 
llie  dish  is  filled.     Bake  until  brown. 

Macaboni  as  a  Ybgetable. 
Simmer  one-half  pound  of  macaroni  in  plenty  of  water  till  tender, 
but  not  broken;  strain  off  the  water.     Take  the  yolks  of  five  and 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  cream>  white  meat  and  ham 


I 

f 

I 

m 

L 


VEGETABLES.  227 

chopped  very  fine,  three  spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  heat  all  together^  stirring  constantly.  Mix  with 
the  macaroni;  pat  into  a  battered  mold  and  steam  one  hour. 

Macaroni  with  Oysters. 

Boil  macaroni  in  salt  water^  after  which  draw  throagh  a  colander; 

take  a  deep  earthen  dish  or  tin;  pat  in  alternate  layers  of  macaroni 

and  oysters;  sprinkle  the  layers  of  macaroni  with  grated  cheese; 

bake  until  brown. 

,  Macaroni  with  Tomatoes. 

Boil  one-half  pound  of  macaroni  till  tender,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  then  add  one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  one-third  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  let  sinmier  for  a  short  time,  but  be  careful 
that  it  does  not  become  much  broken;  turn  into  vegetiable  dish; 
have  ready  one  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
"  pepper,  pour  over  the  macaroni. 

Stkwed  Macaroni. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  macaroni  in  water,  and  drain  well;  put  into  a 
saucepan  one  ounce  of  butter,  mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
moisten  with  four  tablespoonf uls  of  veal  or  beef  stock,  one  gill  of 
cream,  salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste;  put  in  the  macaroni,  let  it 
boil  up,  and  serve  while  hot. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Skin  them  thoroughly.  Put  them  to  boil;  when  they  have  boiled 
A  few  minutes,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  clean  cold  water,  and  set. 
them  to  boil  again.  Pour  this  away,  and  add  more  cold  water, 
when  they  may  boil  till  done.  This  will  make  them  white  and 
clear,  and  very  mild  in  flavor.  After  they  are  done,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  and  dress  with  a  little  cream;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Boil  in  two  waters,  drain,  and  if  they  are  large,  cut  into  quarters 
and  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  scalding  milk  in  which  a  pinch  of  soda 
has  been  stirred;  set  over  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
half  teaspoonful  corn  starch  wet  with  milk,  a  little  minced  parsley, 
with  pepper  and  salt.     Simmer  and  pour  out. 


228  VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  Okba. 

Pat  the  young  and  tender  pods  of  long,  white  okra  into  salted 
boiling  water  in  a  porcelain  or  tin-lined  saucepan  (as  iron  discolors 
it),  boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  off  stems,  and  serve  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  if  preferred;  or,  after  boiling,  slice  in 
rings,  season  with  butter,  dip  in  batter  and  fry;  season  and  serve; 
or  stew  an  equal  quantity  of  tomatoes  and  tender  sliced  okra,  and 
one  or  two  sliced  green  peppers;  stew  in  porcelain  kettle  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  serve. 

Onion  Obmoloo. 

Peel  ten  or  twelve  large  white  onions,  steep  them  an  hour  in  cold 
water^  then  boil  them  soft.  Mash  them  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
boiled  white  potatoes,  adding  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  two  or  three 
well-beaten  eggs.  Stir  the  mixture  very  hard,  season  it  with 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven;  when  half 
done  pour  a  little  melted  butter  or  gravy  over  the  top. 

Scalloped  Onionel 

Boil  till  tender  six  large  onions;  afterward  separate  them  with  a 
large  spoon;  then  place  a  layer  of  onion  and  a  layer  of  grated  bread 
crumbs  alternately  in  a  pudding  dish ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  moisten  with  milk;  put  into  the  oven  to  brown. 

Wash  but  do  not  peel  the  onions;  boil  one  hour  in  boiling  water 
slightly  salt,  changing  the  water  twice  in  the  time;  when  tender, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  and  roll  each  in  buttered  tissue  paper,  twisted  at 
the  top,  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Peel  and  brown  them; 
«erve  with  melted  butter. 

Vegetable  Oystbb. 

One  bunch  of  oysters;  boil  and  mash.  One  pint  sour  milk,  half 
a  teaspoonful  soda;  fiour  to  make  a  batter;  add  two  eggs,  beaten, 
and  the  oysters.     Fry  in  hot  lard — drop  in  spoonfuls. 


I 


VEGETABLES.  229 

Mock  Sikwed  Oystbrs. 

One  boncb  oyster  plant,  eight  teaspocafals  butter,  a  little  flour 
or  com  starch,  vinegar  and  water  for  boiling,  pepper  and  salt,  one- 
half  cup  milk.  Wash  and  scrape  the  oyster  plant  very  carefully;  drop 
into  weak  vinegar  and  water,  bring  quickly  to  a  boil,  and  cook  ten 
minutes;  turn  off  the  vinegar  water;  rinse  the  salsify  in  boiling 
water;  throw  this  out  and  cover  with  more  from  the  tea-kettle;  stew 
gently  ten  minutes  longer;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter;  stew  in  this  until  tender.  Meanwhile  heat  in  a 
farina  kettle  the  milk,  thicken,  add  the  remaining  butter,  and  keep 
dry  until  the  salsify  is  done,  then  transfer  it  to  this  sauce;  pepper 
and  salt;  let  all  lie  together  in  the  inner  kettle,  the  water  in  the 
outer  at  a  slow  boil,  for  five  minutes;  pour  into  a  covered  dish. 

Pabslbt. 

The  foliage  of  parsley  is  of  use  in  flavoring  soups,  etc.;  it  il 
nutritious  and  stimulating. 

Crisp  Paesley. 

This  is  used  for  garnishing  dishes.  .  Pick  and  wash  young  parsley, 
shake  it  in  a  cloth  to  dry  it  thoroughly,  and  spread  it  on  a  sheet  of 
clean  paper  and  put  in  the  oven.  Turn  the  bunches  frequently 
until  they  are  quite  crisp.  Parsley  is  much  more  easily  crispeJ 
than  fried. 

Parsley,  Fried. 

Wash  and  dry  the  parsley  thoroughly;  put  it  into  hot  fat  and  let 

it  remain  until  it  is  crisp;  take  it  out  immediately  and  drain  it  in  a 

colander.     If  the  parsley  is  allowed  to  remain  in  the  fat  one  moment 

after  it  is  crisp  it  will  be  spoiled.      Parsley  is  best  fried  in  a  frying 

basket. 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  carrots,  which  they 
very  much  resemble.  When  boiled,  they  are  generally  servexi  with 
boiled  meat,  or  boiled  salt  fish;  when,  fried,  with  roast  mutton.     If 


L 


230  VEGETABLES. 

young,  they  require  only  to  be  washed  and  scraped  before  they  are 

boiled.     If  old  and  large,  the  skin  must  be  pared  off,  and  the  roots 

cut  into  quarters.     Carrots  and  parsnips  are  often  sent  to  the  table 

together.     It  should  be  remembered  that  parsnips  are  more  quickly 

boiled  than  carrots. 

Fried  Pabsnipb. 

Boil  until  tender  in  hot  water  slightly  salted;  let  them  get  almost 
cold,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick,  long  slices;  dredge  with 
flour  and  fry  in  hot  dripping,  turning  as  they  brown;  drain  very  dry 
in  a  hot  colander;  pepper  and  salt  to  serve. 

Parsnip  Stew. 

Three  slices  of  salt  pork,  boil  one  hour  and  a  half;  scrape  ^ye 
large  parsnips,  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise,  add  to  the  pork  and  let 
boil  one-half  hour,  then  add  a  few  potatoes,  and  let  all  boil  together 
until  the  potatoes  are  soft;  the  fluid  in  the  kettle  should  be  about 
a  cupful  when  ready  to  take  off. 

Canned  Pease. 
Open  a  can  of  pease  an  hour  before  cooking  them,  that  there  may 
be  no  musty,  airless  taste  about  them,  and  turn  into  a  bowl.  When 
ready  for  them,  put  on  a  farina-kettle— or  one  saucepan  within 
another — of  hot  water.  If  dry,  add  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and 
stew  about  twenty-five  minutes;  drain,  stir  in  a  generous  lump  of 
butter;  pepper  and  salt. 

French  Way  of  Cooking  Pease. 

Put  your  pease  in  a  nice  dish,  where  they  will  not  turn  black  in 
cooking.  Cut  up  fine  one  small  head  of  lettuce;  put  in  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  tied  up;  salt  and  pepper;  enough  of  water  to  cover  the 
pease.  Cook  gently  until  tender,  one  and  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  drain  off  most  of  the  water;  dissolve  one  full  teaspoonful  of 
flour  in  water  and  stir  in;  add  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one  lump  of  sugar;  cook  about  ten 
minutes;  just  before  serving  stir  in  one  yolk  of  an  eggy  previously 
beaten  with  a  little  water. 


VEGETABLES.  231 

No.  2. — ^Put  some  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  skillet  and  brown  a 
little  on  both  sides;  then  put  in  your  pease,  with  one  large  onion  cut 
in  four,  one  head  of  lettuce,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  tied  up, 
water  enough  to  cover  them;  salt  and  pepper  (not  much  salt,  as  the 
bacon  salts  them);  cook  one  hour.  Ten  minutes  before  serving 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  to  thicken  the  gravy.  Remove  the  bunch  of 
lettuce  and  parsley. 

Gbeen  Phase. 

Boil  a  quart  of  young,  freshly-gathered  pease  in  slightly  salted 
water  until  they  are  tender;  then  drain  them  in  a  colander.  Melt 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  over  the  fire,  mix  smoothly  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour,  and  add  very  gradually  a  cup  of  thick  cream, 
or,  failing  this,  use  new  milk.  When  the  sauce  boils,  put  in  the 
pease,  stir  them  until  they  are  quite  hot,  and  serve  immediately. 

Potato  Balls. 

Bake  the  potatoes,  mash  them  very  nicely,  make  them  into  balls, 
rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  put  them  in  the  oven 
or  before  the  fire  to  brown.  These  balls  may  be  varied  by  the 
introduction  of  a  third  portion  of  grated  ham  or  tongue. 

Browned  Potatoes. 
While  the  meat  is  roasting,  and  an  hour  before  it  is  served,  boil 
the  potatoes  and  take  off  their  skins;  flour  them  well,  and  put  them 
under  the  meat,  taking  care  to  dry  them  from  the  drippings  before 
they  are  sent  to  the  table.  Kidney  potatoes  are  best  dressed  in 
this  way.  The  flouring  is  very  essential.  They  should  always  be 
■  boiled  a  little  before  being  put  into  stews,  as  the  first  water  in 

^  which  they  are  cooked  is  thought  to^  be  of   a  poisonous  quality. 

Potatoes  when  boiled,  if  old,  should  be  peeled  and  put  whole  upon 
the  gridiron  until  nicely  browned. 

English  Potato  Balls.    . 

Boil  some  potatoes  very  dry;  mash  them  as  smoothly  as  possible; 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  warm  them,  with  an  ounce  of 


232  VEGETABLEB. 

butter  to  eveiy  pound  of  potatoes,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good 

cream;    let  them  cool  a  little,  roll  them  into  balls;  sprinkle  oyer 

them  some  crushed  vermicelli  or  macaroni,  and  fry  them  a  light 

brown. 

Southern  Baksd  Potatobs. 

Parboil,  or  take  the  cold  ones  left  over  from  dinner;  place  in  a 

deep  pie  pan;  between  each  layer  sprinkle  sugar;  over  the  top  drop 

small  drops  of  butter  and  more  sugar,  about  one  small  cup  of  sugar 

and  one  spoonful  of  butter  to  a  plate  of  potatoes.     Then  pour  over 

all  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  set  in  oven  to  bake.     The  common 

pumpkin  is  delicious  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using,' instead  of 

sugar,   syrup   or    molasses.     The    pumpkin    must  be  thoroughly 

steamed  before  baking,  and  requires  two  •  hours'  baking.     Some 

cooks  add  spice. 

Cbeam  Potatoes. 

Pare  and  cut  the  potatoes  into  small  squares  \>r  rounds,  cook 

twenty  minutes  in  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt.     Turn   this  off, 

add  a  cup  of  milk,  and  when  this  bubbles  up  a  tablespoonful  of 

butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  wet  up  with  cold  milk;  also  a 

little  chopped  parsley;  simmer  five  minutes  and  pour  out. 

Potato  Croquettes. 
Take  six  boiled  potatoes,  pass  them  through  a  sieve;  add  to  them 
three  tablespoonf  uls  of  ham  grated  or  minced  finely^  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  some  chopped  parsley;  work 
into  this  mixture  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  then  fashion  it 
into  the  shape  of  balls,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard,  and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 

Potato  Cake. 
Take  potatoes,  mashed  ones  are  best,  btrt  boiled  ones  can  be 
mashed,  immediately  after  dinner,  before  getting  too  cold;  add 
about  an  equal  amount  of  flour  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  or  lard; 
rub  thoroughly  together,  roll  out  and  cut  as  for  biscuit — not  too 
thick — and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  When  done  to  a  light 
brown,  cut  open,  butter  and  eat  warm. 


-T^ 


VEGETABLES.  233 

Fbibd  Potatoes. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  grate  them,  make  them  into  flat  cakes, 
and  fry  them  in  butter.  You  may  vary  these  cakes  by  dipping 
them  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  rolling  them  in  bread  crumbs, 
frying  them  in  boiling  lard. 

Fbied  Potatoes,  No.  2. 

Raw  potatoes,  peel,  cut  in  rings  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  or 
cut  in  one  continuous  shaving;  throw  them  into  cold  water  until 
you  have  sufficient;  drain  on  a  cloth;  fry  quickly  in  plenty  of  hot 
fat,  and  with  as  little  color  as  possible;  dry  them  well  from  the 
grease,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  When  nicely  done,  and  piled  up 
properly,  they  make  a  fine  side  dish,  which  is  always  eaten  with 
great  relish. 

Or  cut  a  potato  lengthwise  the  size  and  shape  of  the  divisions  of 
an  orange,  trim  them  neatly  and  fry  them;  they  are  an  excellent 
garnish  for  meat.  Cold  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  somewhat 
less  than  an  inch  thick,  and  fried  in  like  manner.  They  can  also  be 
fried  with  onions,  as  an  accompaniment  to  pork  chops,  sliced  cod, 
red  herring,  or  with  a  raslt^er  of  bacon.' 

Another  nice  way  is  to  boil  them  and  let  them  become  cold,  then 

cut  them  into  rather  thin  slices.     Put  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  into  a 

stewpan,  add  a  little  flour,  about  a  teaspoonf ul  for  a  moderate-sized 

dish;  when  the  flour  has  boiled  a  short  time  in  the  butter  add  a 

cup  of  water  and  a  little  cream;  boil  all  together;  then  put  in  the 

potatoes  covered  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  stew  them 

for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  take  them  from  the  fire  and  send  to  the 

I  table. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Steam  or  boil  potatoes  until  soft,  in  salted  water;  pour  off  the 
water  and  let  them  drain  perfectly  dry;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
mash;  have  ready  some  hot  milk  or  cream  in  which  has  been  melted 
a  piece  of  ^butter;  pour  this  on  to  the  potatoes,  and  stir  until  white 
and  very  light. 


334  VEQETABLEa 

Potato  Sitspbibx, 
Sooop  out  the  inside  of  a  sound  potato,  leaving  the  akin  attached 
at  one  side  of  the  hole,  as  a  lid.  Mince  Gnaij  the  lean  of  a  juicy 
mntton  chop  with  a  little  salt  asd  pepper;  pnt  it  in  the  potato, 
fasten  down  the  Ud,  and  bake  or  roaet.  Before  serving  (in  its  skin) 
add  a  little  hot  gravy  if  the  mince  seems  too  dry. 

Potato  Pdff. 
Take  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potato,  and  stir  into  it  tvo  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white  cream  before  adding 
anything  else.  Then  put  with  this  two  eggs  whipped  very  light 
and  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned. 

Potato  Pie. 

Bntter  a  shallow  pie  dish  rather  thickly.     Line  the  edges  with  a 
good  crust,  and  then  fill  the  pie 
with    mashed    potatoes,    seasoned  i 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nut- 
meg.  Layoverthem  somemarrow, 
together  with  small  lumps  of  bnt- 
ter, hard-boiled  eggs,  blanched  almonds,  sliced  dates,  sliced  lemon  and 
candied  peel.     Cover  the  dish  with  pastry,  and  bake  the  pie  in  a 
well-heated  oven  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  the  siae  of 
the  pie. 

PuKfeE  or  Potatoks. 

Mash  them  and  mix  while  quite  hot  with  some  fine  white  gravy 
drawn  from  veal,  together  with  butter  and  cream.     The  pnr^ 
should  be  rather  thin  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Potato  Loaves. 

These  are  very  nice  when  eaten  with  roast  beef,  and  are  made  of 
mashed  potatoes  prepared  without  milk,  by  mixing  them  with  a 
quantity  of  very  finely-minced  raw  onions,  powdered  with  pepper 
and  salt;  then  beating  up  the  whole  with  a  little  butter  to  bind  it^ 


VEGETABLES.  236 

and  diiriding  it  into  small  loaves  of  a  conical  fogrnif  and  placing 
them  under  the  meat  to  brown;  that  is,  when  it  is  so  nearly  done  a& 
to  impart  some  of  the  gravy  along  with  the  fat. 

Sabatooa  Potatoss. 

Pare  and  cut  into  very  thin  slices  four  large  p«  tito-  s  if  w  pota- 
toes are  best);  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes  in  coid  ^Jtlt.  wuc^*i\  then 
take  a  handful  of  the  potatoes,  squeeze  the  water  from  them,  dry 
in  a  napkin,  and  separating  the  slices,  drop  into  a  skillet  of  b(>iiing 
lard,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  stick  together;  stir  till  the^  ai* 
of  a  light  brown  color,  take  out  with  a  wire  spoon,  drain  well  and 
serve  immediately. 

Lyonnaisb  Potatoes.  , 

Boil  the  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on  and  allow  them  to  cool  in 
order  to  have  them  solid.  Peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  a  quartet 
of  an  inch  thick;  slice  an  ordinary  sized  onion  for  half  a  dozei\ 
potatoes.  As  soon  as  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  has  melted  in  the 
pan,  and  the  onion  begun  to  color,  put  in  the  slices  of  potatoes. 
Stir  them  a  little;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  fry  the  potatoes 
until  they  are  a  golden  brown,  and  then  chop  up  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
parsley  and  sprinkle  it  over  them  just  before  taking  them  out. 

Old  Potatoes. 

These  can  be  made  to  look  like  young  ones  in  this  way:  Wash 
some  large  ones  and  cut  them  into  as  many  small  slices  as  will  fill  a 
dish;  boil  them  in  two  or  three  waters  about  three  minutes  each 
time,  the  water  being  put  to  them  cold;  then  let  them  steam  until 
tender;  pour  a  white  sauce  over  them.  Potatoes  prepared  in  this 
way  have  been  mistaken  for  young  ones. 

Tossed  Potatoes. 

Boil  some  potatoes  in  their  skins;  peel  them  and  cut  into  small 
pieces;  toss  them  over  the  fire  in  a  mixture  of  cream,  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  till  they  are  hot  and  well  covered  with  the- 
sauce. 


i 


236 


VEGETABLSS. 


J  SwBBT  Potatoes. 

Swee^       ^fttoes  require  more  time  to  cook  than  common  potatoes. 

To  JioiL — -ake  large,  fine  potatoes,  wash  clean,  boil  with  the 
skins  on  in  plenty  of  water,  but  without  salt.  They  will  take  at 
least  one  K^ur.  Drain  off  the  water  and  set  them  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  tin  }#an  before  the  fire,  or  in  the  stove,  that  they  may  be  well 
dried.     Peel  them  before  sending  them  to  the  table. 

T9  Pry, — Choose  large  potatoes,  half  boil  them,  and  then,  hay- 
ing taken  off  the  skins,  cut  the  potatoes  into  slices  and  fry  in  butter 
or  in  nice  drippings. 

To  Hake, — Bake  as  the  conmion  potato,  except  give  them  a 
longer  time. 

Baksd  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Select  those  which  are  nearly  of  a  size,  not  too  large;  steam  them 

until  nearly  done,  and  then  bake  them  until  they  are  soft  at  the 

heart. 

A  Fabmeb's  Dainty  Dish. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  potatoes  and  onions  (five  potatoes  to  one  small 
onion) ;  take  half  a  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork  (in  thin  slices)  to  a 
pound  of  beef,  mutton  or  veal;  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces;  take 
some  nice  bread  dough  and  shorten  a  little;  line  the  bottom  of  the 
stewpan  with  slices  of  pork,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  potatoes  and 
onions,  dust  over  a  little  pepper  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  crust; 
repeat  this  until  the  stewpot  is  full.  The  size  of  the  pot  will 
depend  on  the  number  in  the  family.  Pour  in  sufficient  water  to 
oover,  and  finish  with  crust.  Let  it  simmer  until  meat,  vegetables, 
etc.,  are  done,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  hard.  Serve  hot.  This  we  are 
assured  by  one  who  knows  is  a  dish  fit  to  set  before  a  king. 

Rice  as  a  Ybqetable. 

It  should  first  be  picked  over,  washed,  and  dried.  Then  put  in 
boiling  water,  and  salt  and  boil,  twelve  minutes.  There  should  be 
plenty  of  water.  At  the  end  of  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  pour  off  the 
water,  cover  up  the  rice,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  on  a 


VEGETABLES.  237 

brick;  let  it  steam  there  for  fifteen  minutes;  if  it  has  been  in  a 
sufficiently  hot  place  to  steam  it  will  now  be  done,  and  every  gra^n 

4 

will  be  distinct;  pour  off  the  water,  and,  for  every  cup  of  rice,  add 
half  a  cup  of  milk  and  stir.  The  milk  is  better  warmed  before  add- 
ing it  to  the  rice. 

Succotash. 

Ten  ears  green  com,  one  pint  Lima  beans;  cut  the  com  from  the 
cob,  and  stew  gently  with  the  beans  until  tender.  Use  as  little 
water  as  possible.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper — ^milk,  if 
you  choose. 

.Spinach. 

When  cooking  spinach,  substitute  a  little  piece  of  bacon  for  the 
salt  pork  usually  cooked  with  it  to  season  it.  The  nicest  way  to 
serve  it  is  to  put  a  bit  of  the  bacon  in  each  dish.  Hard-boiled 
eggs,  sliced  when  cold,  are  also  liked  with  the  greens. 

Cbeam  of  Spinach. 

Take  the  leaves  of  spinach — ^no  stalks — ^wash  thoroughly;  put 
them  into  enough  salt  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  When  boiled 
tender,  take  them  out  and  put  them  into  cold  water  to  fix  the  fresh 
green  color.  Let  them  remain  until  cold  and  then  rub  them 
through  a  colander  with  a  potato-masher.  The  spinach  is  then 
ready  for  table  use. 

WiNTBs  Squash. 

Pare,  cut  up  and  cook  soft  in  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt. 
Drain,  mash  smooth,  pressing  out  all  the  water;  work  in  butter^ 
pepper  and  salt,  and  mound  in  a  deep  dish. 

Stupfbd  Squash. 

Pare  a  small  squash  and  cut  off  a  slice  from  the  top;  extract  the 
seeds  and  lay  one  hour  in  salt  water;  then  fill  with  a  good  stuffing 
of  cmmbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  parsley,  etc.,  wet  with  gravy;  put  on 
the  top  slice;  set  the  squash  in  a  pudding  dish;  put  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  melted  butter  and  twice  as  much  hot  water  in  the  bottom;  cover 


t 


238 .  YEQETABLES. 

the  dish  very  closely  and  set  in  the  oven  two  hours  or  until  tender; 
laj  within  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

Turnips, 

Pare  and  cut  into  pieces;  put  them  into  boiling  water  well  salted, 
and  boil  until  tender;  drain  thoroughly,  and  then  mash  and  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  small  teaspoon! ul  of 
sugar.    Stir  until  they  are  thoroughly  mixed,  and  serve  hot. 

.Mashbd  TuBinps. 

Pare,  quarter  and  cook  tenderly  in  boiling  water;  a  little  salt. 
Mash  and  press  in  a  heated  colander;  work  in  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  heap  smoothly  in  a  deep  dish  and  put  pepper  on  top. 

Tomatoes  ▲  la  Cbeah. 

Pare  and  slice  ripe  tomatoes— one  quart  of  fresh  ones  or  a  pound 
can;  stew  until  perfectly  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  just  before  taking  from 
the  fire,  stir  in  one  cup  of  cream,  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  fiour 
stirred  smooth  in  a  part  of  it;  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  flour  is 
put  in.  Have  ready  in  a  dish  pieces  of  toast;  pour  the  tomatoes 
over  this  and  serve. 

Bbownsd  Tomatoes. 

Take  large  round  tomatoes  and  halve  them,  place  them,  the  skin 
side  down,  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  a  very  small  quantity  of  butter 
and  lard  have  been  previously  melted,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  dredge  well  with  flour.  Place  the  pan  on  a  hot  part 
of  the  fire,  and  let  them  brown  thoroughly;  then  stir,  and  let  them 
brown  again,  and  so  on  until  they  are  quite  done.  They  lose  their 
acidity,  and  their  flavor  is  superior  to  stewed  tomatoes. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  stale  bread  crumbed  fine,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  white  sugar. 
Drain  off  two-thirds  of  the  liquor  from  the  tomatoes  (the  rest  can 


'•i 


»" 


YBGETABLES.  239 

l>e  saved  for  to-moibrow's  soup).  Cover  the  bottom, of  a  bake-dish 
with  crumbs;  lay  the  tomatoes  evenly  upou  this  bed;  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  sugar,  and  parsley,  with  bits  of  butter  here  and  there. 
Strew  bread  crumbs  over  all,  a  thicker  layer  than  at  the  bottom;  put 
tiny  pieces  of  butter  upon  this  and  bake,  covered,  about  thirty-five 
minutes.  Take  off  the  cover  and  brown  upon  the  upper  shelf  of  the 
•oven.     Do  not  let  it  stay  there  long  enough  to  get  dry. 

Baejbd  Tomatoes,  No.  2. 

Cut  in  slices  good  fresh  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe) ;  put  a  layer  of 
them  in  a  dish  suitable  for  baking;  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
-over  them,  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter,  another  layer  of 
tomatoes,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.     Bake  one  hour. 

Bboilbd  Tomatoes. 

Cut  large  tomatoes  in  two,  crosswise;  put  on  gridiron,  cut  surface 
down;  when  well  seared,  turn,  and  put  butter,  salt  and  pepper  on, 
and  cook  with  skin-side  down  until  done. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  slices  without  skinning;  pepper  and  salt 
them;  then  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown,  Put  them  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  milk  or  cream  into 
the  butter  and  juice.     When  boiling  hot,  pour  over  the  tomatoes 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 
Butter  an  earthen  dish,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  fresh  tomatoes, 
sliced  and  peeled,  and  a  few  rinds  of  onion  (one  large  onion  for  the 
whole  dish),  then  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  this  process  until  the  dish  is  full 
Bake  for  an  hour  in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

Stitfped  Tomatoes. 
Choose  a  dozen  large,  round  tomatoes;  cut  them  off  smooth  at 
the  stem  end;  take  out  the  seeds  and  pulp;  take  a  pound  of  lean 
flteak  and  two  slices  of  bacon;  chop  them  fine,  with  the  inside  of 


240  VEGETABLES. 

the  tomatoes;  season  with  a  finely-chopped  onion,  fried,  a  dessert^ 
spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  as  much 
Cayenne  pepper  as  you  can  take  on  the  end  of  a  knife  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  finely-choppe^  parsley;  add  four  rolled  crackers,  and  if 
too  stiff,  thin  with  stock,  water  or  cold  gravy;  fill  the  tomatoes  with 
4,his  foroemekt,  packing  tight;  sift  cracker  crumbs  over  the  top^ 
and  bake  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

French  Batteb  fob  Fbying  Ybgbtablbs. 

Moisten  a  little  flour  with  water,  and  add  to  it  a  small  quantity 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonf ul  of  olive  oil,  and  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of 
French  brandy.  Beat  up  the  mixture  thoroughly,  and,  when  you 
are  ready  to  use  it,  beat  into  it  the  white  of  an  egg  previously 
beaten  to  a  strong  froth.  This  batter  may  be  used  for  frying 
sweet  erUremeta^  in  which  case  sugar  must  be  used  instead  of  salt. 

Rules  fob  Cookino  Them. 

Oreen  vegetables  should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  cold  water  and 
then  dropped  into  water  that  has  been  salted  and  is  beginning  to 
boil.  There  should  be  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt  to  each  two  quarts  of 
water.  If  the  water  boils  long  before  the  vegetables  are  put  in,  it 
has  lost  all  its  gases,  and  the  mineral  ingredients  are  deposited  on 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  kettle,  so  that  the  water  is  flat  and 
tasteless,  then  the  vegetables  will  not  look  well  or  have  a  fine  flavor. 
The  time  for  boiling  green  vegetables  depends  much  upon  the  age 
and  time  they  have  been  gathered.  The  younger  and  more  freshly 
gathered  the  more  quickly  they  are  cooked.  Below  is  a  very  good 
time-table  for  cooking  vegetables: 

Potatoes  boiled,  thirty  minutes. 

Potatoes  baked,  forty-five  minutes. 

Sweet  potatoes  boiled,  fifty  minutes. 

Sweet  potatoes  baked,  sixty  minutes. 

Squash  boiled,  twenty-five  minutes. 

Green  pease  boiled,  twenty  to  forty  minutes. 

Shelled  beans  boiled,  sixty  minutes. 


VEGETABLES.  241 

String  beans  boiled,  one  to  two  hours. 
Green  corn,  thirty  to  sixty  minutes. 
Asparagus,  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes. 
Spinach,  one  to  two  hours. 
Tomatoes,  fresh,  one  hour. 
Tomatoes,  canned,  thirty  minutes. 
Cabbage,  forty-five  minutes  to  two  hours. 
Cauliflower,  one  or  two  hours. 
Dandelions,  two  or  three  hours. 
Beet  greens,  one  hour. 
Onions,  one  or  two  hours. 
Beets,  one  to  five  hours. 
Turnips,  white,  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 
Turnips,  yellow,  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 
Parsnips,  one  or  two  hours, 
Carrots,  one  or  two  hours. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


FISH. 


ISHy  wlien  considered  with  reference  to  the  nourishment  which 
they  contain,  appear  to  rank  between  animals  and  vegetables. 
When  fish  is  consumed  as  the  principal  article  of  food,  larger 
quantities  are  required  than  when  meat  is  used,  owing  to  the  smaller 
amount  of  nourishment  that  it  contains.  From  this  cause,  and,  also, 
because  fish  is  so  much  more  easily  digested  than  meat,  food  is 
required  much  sooner  after  a  meal  of  fish  than  when  animal  food  is 
taken.  Owin^to  its  greater  digestibility  than  meat,  fish  is  better 
adapted  to  invalids,  more  especially  as  it  does  not  produce  feverish- 
ness  like  meat  diet. 

The  most  digestible  kinds  of  fish  are  those  with  white  flesh,  such 
as  the  cod,  turbot,  sole,  whiting,  haddock  and  flounder,  the  flesh  of 
all  these  presenting  a  whitish  appearance.  Of  the  fish  just  'men- 
tioned, the  whiting,  haddock  and  flounder  are  easiest  of  digestion. 

The  flesh  of  fish  when  in  good  condition  is  always  fleshy  and 
opaque;  when  it  is  of  a  bluish  color,  or  appears  slightly  transparent 
after  being  boiled,  it  proves  either  that  the  fish  is  out  of  season,  or 
of  inferior  quality. 

Sometimes  fish  have  been  found  to  exert  a  poisonous  action  on 
the  system,  producing  headache,  giddiness,  and  an  eruption  on  the 
skin  resembling  that  produced  by  being  stung  with  nettles.  In 
some  cases,  even  death  has  been  caused  by  this  means.  Although 
it  may  be  true  in  some  cases,  that  the  ill  effects  produced  by  fish 
may  be  due  to  the  bad  condition  of  health  in  which  the  patient 
happens  to  be  at  the  time,  yet  in  most  cases  it  can  only  be  attrib- 

24S 


FISH.  343 

nted  to  some  poisonous  principle  developed  in  the  fish.  This  may 
be  due  to  their  being  eaten  in  a  season  when  the  fish  is  out  of  health, 
and,  theref ore,  unfit  for  food,  or  it  may  be  produced  by  the  poison- 
ous nature  of  the  food  on  which  the  fishes  lived. 

Oysters,  when  fresh  and  in  season,  are  very  nutritious;  when, 
however,  they  have  a  bluish  appearance,  they  are  liable  to  produce 
affections  of  the  bowels.  Salmon  contains  much  nourishment,  which 
is  due  to  the  oily  matter  which  its  flesh  contains;  and  for  this  reason 
this  fish  is  less  suited  for  invalids  than  the  white  kind. 

Most  kinds  of  fish  lose  their  flavor  soon  after  being  taken  from 
the  water.  The  cod  and  one  or  two  others  are  exceptions  to  this 
general  rule.  Fish  are  fresh  when  the  eyes  are  clear,  the  fins  stiff, 
the  gills  red,  and  without  bad  odor.  Fresh  shad  have  gills  of  quite 
a  crimson  red,  bright  scales  and  a  firm  body;  and  shad  are  unfit  to 
eat  when  the  gills, are  a  whitish  blue  and  the  eyes  are  sunken.  In 
a  good  salmon;'  when  cut,  the  flesh  should  appear  quite  red,  solid 
and  flaky.  The  Dutch  and  French  bleed  the  cod,  which  accounts 
for  the  better  quality  and  whiteness  of  their  codfish.  All  large 
fish,  in  fact,  should  be  bled  as  soon  as  caught. ' 

Almost  every  kind  of  fish  is  either  boiled,  broiled  or  fried.  Any 
amall  fish  of  the  size  of  a  smelt,  or  smaller,  is  better  fried  than  pre- 
pared in  any  other  way.  Fish  like  salmon  trout  are  best  when 
baked  and  some  fine  sauce  poured  over  them.  A  cup  of  diluted 
cream,  in  which  is  stirred  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted  butter  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  makes  an  excellent  sauce  for  salmon  trout. 

Bass  weighing  from  one-half  pound  to  a  pound  are  best  fried; 
those  weighing  from  one  to  three  pounds  are  best  broiled,  and 
larger  sizes  are  best  when  boiled.     Very  large  bass  are  dry  eating. 

They  should  be  thoroughly  cleansed,  washed,  and  sprinkled  with 
salt. 

Before  broiling  fish,  rub  the  gridiron  with  a  piece  of  fat,  to  pre- 
vent its  sticking.     Lay  the  skin  side  down  first. 

The  earthy  taste  often  found  in  fresh-water  fish  can  be  removed 
l>y  soaking  in  salt  and  water. 


244  FIBH 

Most  kinds  of  salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for  twentj* 
four  hours— -the  fleshy  side  turned  down  in  the  water. 

Baked  Fish. 

Stuff  it  with  plain. dressing;  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water;  salt^ 
pepper,  and  butter.  Baste  while  baking.  A  fish  weighing  four 
pounds  will  cook  in  an  hour.  Gramish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
parsley^  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  egg  sauce. 

To  Boil  Fish. 

Sew  them  in  a  cloth,  and  put  in  cold  water,  with  plenty  of  salt. 
Most  fish  will  boil  in  thirty  minutes. 

Boiled  Fish. 

For  four  or  five  pounds  of  fish,  nearly  cover  with  water,  and  add 
two  heaping  tablespoonf uls  of  salt.  Boil  thirty  minutes  and  serve 
with  drawn  butter. 

Baked  Black  Fish. 

Rub  a  handful  of  salt  over  the  surface,  to  remove  the  slime  pecu- 
liar to  the  fish.  For  the  stuffing,  two  ounces  of  beef  drippings,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  and  one  ounce  of  salt  pork;  put 
in  a  saucepan  and  fry  brown;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
capers,  half  a  saltspoonf ul  of  white  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  five  ounces  of  bread,  and  one  gill  of  broth;  then  stir  until 
scalding  hot;  place  inside  the  fish;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
pork  in  thin 'slices  and  lay  on  either  side  of  the  fish,  holding  in 
place  by  twine  around  it — ^a  generous  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper 
completing  it  for  the  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  one-half 
hour,  and  serve  on  slices  of  fried  bread  with  a  sauce  made  of  stock 
seasoned  with  one  tablespoonful  each  of  walnut  and  Worcestershire 
sauce,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  capers,  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  parsley. 

Bbook  Trout. 

If  small,  fry  them  with  salt  pork;  if  large,  boil,  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter. 


FISH.  245 

Flounders. 

These  may  be  boiled  or  stewed;  but  we  hold  that  they  never  do 
themselves  so  much  credit  as  when  making  their  appearance  really 
well  fried. 

Halibut. 

Of  •  all  flat  fishy  a  halibut  is  the  largest,  measuring  sometimes 
about  seven  feet  in  length,  and  weighing  from  three  hundred  to 
four  hundred  pounds.  In  its  proportions,  the  halibut  is  rather 
longer  than  other  flat  fish.  The  flesh  has  not  much  flavor,  but  is 
light  and  wholesome.  To  boil  halibut  plain,  after  scaling  the  skin 
on  both  sides,  salt  it  for  six  hours,  and  (unless  the  piece  is  very 
large)  plunge  it  in  boiling  water.  The  time  of  boiling,  of  course, 
will  depend  on  the  size.  Serve,  accompanied  by  white  sauce  made 
with  milk  instead  of  water,  liberally  dosed  with  butter  and  slightly 
seasoned  with  salt  and  a  small  pinch  of  scraped  horse-radish. 
Shrimp  or  anchovy  sauce  goes  well  with  it.  Where  there  are  the 
means  and  skill  of  frying  well,  halibut,  cut  into  steaks  of  the  proper 
thickness,  and  so  prepared,  is  both  sightly  and  palatable  garnished 
with  fried  parsley.  Some  well-buttered  sauce  is  desirable,  to 
obviate  its  natural  dryness.  Slices  from  the  middle  of  a  halibut 
may  be  divided  and  trussed  into  convenient  sized  cutlets,  by  cutting 
them  into  equal  halves  directly  through  the  vertebra.  The  same 
plan  may  be  adopted  with  slices  from  the  thick  part  of  other  large 
fish  (cod,  over-sized  pike,  and  salmon),  which  it  is  customary  to 
dress  as  steaks.  We  have  never  heard  or  read  of  halibut  being  in 
any  way  served  whole. 

Pebch,  Eels  and  Small  Pikb 

■» 

Are  excellent  fried. 

Potted  Eels. 

After  cleaning  your  eels  and  cutting  off  their  heads,  cut  them 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  long.     Put  them  into  a  brown  earthen 
I  pot,  to  which,  if  there  is  not  an  earthen  cover,  have  a  tin  one. 

Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  allspice,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley 


246  FISH. 

and  thyme.  Pour  over  the  eels  a  little  more  vinegar  and  water 
than  will  cover  them;  put  on  the  lid  and  set  the  pot  into  a  slow 
oven.  They  should  not  be  too  much  done.  As  soon  as  the  flesh 
will  come  away  from  the  bones  they  are  done  enough.  Herrings 
may  be  potted  in  the  same  way. 

COLLARBD   EbLS. 

These,  though  a  little  more  trouble  than  potted  eels,  make  a  very 
good  and  handsome  dish.  For  this,  the  larger  the  eels  the  better; 
quite  small  eels  can  hardly  be  collared.  Clean  the  eel,  cut  off  the 
head,  open  it  on  the  under  side  the  whole  of  its  length,  wash  it^ 
take  out  the  backbone,  tearing  the  flesh  as  little  as  possible.  Dry 
it  by  pressing  it  with  a  coarse  cloth.  You  will  then  have  a  flat 
strip  of  eel  flesh,  broad  at  one  -end  and  narrow  at  the  other.  Season 
the  inner  surface  of  eel  by  dusting  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice. 
Then  roll  it  tightly  upon  itself,  as  you  would  a  ribbon,  beginning 
at  the  broad  end,  until  you  have  rolled  it  into  a  lump  something 
like  a  short,  thick  sausage,  blunt  at  both  ends;  tie  it  with  broad 
tape  (not  with  string,  which  would  cut  into  the  flesh  when  cooked) 
to  keep  it  from  unrolling,  and  then  cook  in  an  earthen  pot  with  a 
lid  exactly  as  you  do  potted  eels. 

Sturgeon. 

There  are  few  people  so  poor  that  they  will  consent  to  eat  stur- 
geon, yet  this  fish,  if  properly  cooked,  affords,  it  is  said,  a  luxurious 
meal.  Get  a  few  slices,  moderately  thick,  put  them  in  a  pot  or  pan 
of  water,  and  parboil  them  to  get  rid  of  the  oil;  then  roll  in  crumbs 
of  cracker  and  egg^  just  as  you  would  a  veal  cutlet,  and  fry.  This 
makes  a  veal  cutlet  that  beats  the  original  by  far,  and  you  are  sure 
that  it  is  "full  six  weeks  old,"  as  the  butcher  always  certifies  in 

regard  to  the  veal. 

Cods'  Head. 

In  some  places,  fishmongers  take  the  heads  off  their  codfish  before 
they  cut  up  the  rest  of  the  fish  to  retail  it  by  the  pound.  In  that 
case  the  heads  are  sold  cheap;  and  when  they  can  be  thus  had  they 


FIBH.  247 

are  well  worth  the  buying.  We  have  enjoyed  many  a  cheap  fish 
treat  with  a  dish  of  cods'  heads,  which  contain  several  of  the  tit- 
bits prized  by  epicures,  namely,  the  tongue,  the  cheek-pieces,  and 
the  nape  of  the  neck.  After  taking  out  the  eyes,  wash  the  heads, 
drain  them,  and,  if  you  can  let  them  lie  all  night  with  a  little  salt 
sprinkled  over  them,  they  will  be  none  the  worse  for  it.  Put 
them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  according  to  size.  Dish  them  on  a  strainer,  if  you  can, 
and  help  with  a  spoon. 

For  sauce,  drawn  butter  is  good. 

For  sharp  sauce,  take  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  the  cods'  heads 
boilings;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter  or  dripping 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  keep 
stirring  in  one  direction  till  they  are  all  raised  smooth  and  come  to 
a  boil.  Both  these  sauces  go  well  with  any  boiled  fish.  To  these 
we  will  add  a  third  which  will  be  found  equally  simple  and  good. 

For  brown  sauce,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  or  dripping  into  a 
saucepan.  Set  it  on  a  brisk  fire,  shake  it  around  now  and  then,  and 
keep  it  there  until  it  is  browned,  not  burnt.  Take  it  off  the  fire 
and  stir  into  it  a  good  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  When  they  are 
well  mixed,  pour  into  your  sauce-boat  and  serve.  The  mixing  of 
the  vinegar  with  the  hot  fat  had  better  be  done  out  of  doors,  on 
account  of  the  quantity  of  vapor  that  arises  when  they  are  put 
together. 

Any  meat  remaining  on  the  cods'  heads  after  a  meal  should  be 
separated  from  the  skin  and  bone  before  it  gets  cold.  This  rule 
applies  to  all  other  fish.  Arrange  it  neatly  on  a  plate  and  dust  a 
little  pepper  and  drop  a  little  vinegar  over  it.  It  will  furnish  a 
nice  little  delicacy  when  cold,  or  you  may  warm  it  up  with  mashed 
potatoes,  adding  any  sauce  that  may  be  left;  or,  after  putting  on  it 
the  cold  sauce  left,  or  a  little  butter,  you  may  cover  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  sprinkle  over  it  bread  crumbs;  pour  over  it  beaten 
egg  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


\ 


248  FISH. 

Fbesh  Codfish. 
Ont  it  in  slices  and  fry  or  broil;  if  fried,  roll  it  first  in  flour. 

Salt  Codfish. 

Pick  the  fish  up  fine  and  let  it  soak  for  two  hours,  then  rinse,  and 
if  fresh  enough,  cook  in  a  little  milk  thickened  with  flour;  add  two 
tablespoonf  uls  of  butter,  and  eggs  to  taste.  The  eggs  may  be 
beaten  and  stirred  in,  or  dropped  into  boiling  water,  and  then  put 
into  the  codfish  gravy  whole,  or  laid  on  a  platter  and  have  the  fish 
poured  over  them.  It  may  also  be  boiled  and  served  with  a  gravy 
made  of  melted  butter  and  flour. 

Scalloped  Codfish. 

One  quart  of  pickled  codfish,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  or  rolled 
•rackers,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  four  ounces  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  wash  and  freshen  the  fish.  When  ready,  put 
it  into  a  baking  dish  with  the  crumbs  in  alternate  layers,  with  a 
little  butter  and  pepper;  have  the  top  layer  of  crumbs  and  cover 
with  beaten  egg,  then  pour  the  cream  over  all  and  bake  half  am 
hour. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Pick  the  fish  fine,  and  freshen.  Boil  potatoes  and  mash  them; 
mix  fish  and  potatoes  together  while  potatoes  are  hot,  taking  two- 
thirds  potatoes  and  one*third  fish.  Put  in  plenty  of  butter;  make 
into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Salt  Macksbeu 

Soak  for  a  day  or  two,  after  taking  out  of  the  briue,  in  cold 
water,  or, buttermilk;  lay  in  a  pan  with  the  flesh  side  down,  and 
change  the  water  occasionally.  Just  before  cooking,  lay  it  into  a 
shallow  dish  and  cover  with  hot  milk,  which  removes  the  strong 
taste.  Take  it  out  of  the  milk  and  wipe  dry  with  a  napkin.  Then 
lay  on  a  gridiron  and  broil  the  same  as  fresh  fish  and  serve  with 
sauce  with  lemon  juice. 


FISH.  249 

Bakbd  Cod. 

When  purchasing  a  four-pound  cod  ask  yonr  fishdealer  to  send 
you  three  or  four  codfish  heads.  Rub  a  little  salt  on  the  fish,  chop 
the  heads  into  six  pieces  each,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them. 
Place  them  in  the  center  of  the  baking-pan  (to  be  used  as  supports 
for  the  fish),  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  carrot,  a  turnip,  a 
potato,  and  one  onion  cut  into  slices,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed,  six 
cloves,  and  a  cup  of  red  wine.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven  while  you 
prepare  the  cod.  Soak  in  cold  water  until  soft  a  sufficiency  of 
bread  to  fill  the  fish;  drain  off  the  water  and  pound  the  bread  to  a 
paste;  mix  with  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  raw 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Put  this  stuffing  inside  the  fish  and  sew  it  up;  place  the 
cod  in  the  pan  with  two  or  three  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top,  and 
baste  it  frequently;  when  it  is  cooked  lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  platter, 
and  garnish  with  fried  oysters  if  convenient.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  prepared  fiour  to  the  pan,  a  wineglass  of  sherry;  mix  and 
strain  the  gravy  into  a  sauce-boat. 

BOILBD   PiKB. 

If  the  fish  is  sent  home  split  through  the  underside  sew  it  up. 
Then  run  a  thread  through  the  fish  so  as  to  draw  it  into  the  shape 
of  a  letter  S.  Tie  it  fast,  and  then  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth.  Not  having 
any  fish  kettle,  lower  it  into  the  pot  of  boiling  water  if  it  is 
small  or  a  small  piece,  if  a  large  fish  put  it  into  cold  water.  If  a 
large  fish  is  put  into  hot  water  the  outside  cooks  first,  but  in  cold 
water  it  cooks  evenly  through.  While  boiling  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  a  slice  of  lemon  or  a  half  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  few  cloves. 
When  done  lift  the  fish  from  the  pot  upon  a  platter,  untie  the  cloth, 
and  by  gently  scraping  the  skin  down  the  sides,  from  the  top  of  the 
back,  you  can  take  the  whole  fish  from  the  shell  and  place  upon  a 
dish  for  the  table. 


260  FISH. 

TURBOT. 

Take  a  fine  large  whitefish,  steam  until  tender;  take  ont  the  bones 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  For  the  dressing  heat  one  quart 
of  milk  and  thicken  with  a  half  or  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  flour. 
When  cool  add  two  eggs  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  put 
in  the  baking-dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  until  f  ulL 
Season  with  garlic,  parsley  and  thyme.  Cover  the  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

To  Fry  White  Fish. 

One  of  the  best  ways  to  fry  white  fish,  or  any  other  fish,  is  to 
first  fry  some  slices  of  salt  pork,  then  roll  the  pieces  of  fish  in  fine 
Indian  meal,  and  fry  in  the  pork  gravy.  About  three  slices  of  pork 
for  a  medium-sized  fish.  White  fi^h  needs  less  fat  than  almost  any 
other.  Fish  needs  to  be  cooked  a  long  time  and  very  slowly  to 
make  it  fiaky  and  white. 

Salmon. 

A  delicious  way  to  cook  salmon  is  to  boil  it  and  serve  with  a 
gravy  made  of  butter,  flour,  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of  oysters. 
Cook  the  oysters  in  a  very  little  water,  the^  stir  into  the  sauce. 
Tou  may  prepare  canned  salmon  in  this  way. 


'CHAPTER   XX. 


SHELL  FISH. 

Clahs. 

O  jadge  whether  clams  and  oysters  are  fresh  insert  a  knife,  and 
if  the  shell  instantly  closes  firmly  on  the  knife  the  oysters 
are  fresh.     If  it  shuts  slowly  and  faintly  or  not  at  all  they 

are  dying  or  dead.     When  the^  shells  of  raw  oysters  are  found 

gaping  open  they  are  not  good. 

CLAJf  Bake. 

Lay  the  clams  on  a  rock,  edge  downward,  forming  a  circle;  cover 
them  with  fine  brush,  cover  the  brush  with  dry  sage,  cover  the 
sage  with  larger  brush;  set  the  whole  on  fire,  and  when  the  brush 
and  sage  are  a  little  more  than  half  burnt  look  at  the  clams  by 
pulling  some  out,  and  if  done  enough  brush  the  fire,  cinders,  etc.,. 
off;  mix  some  tomato  or  cauliflower  sauce  or  catsup  with  the  clam» 
after  being  taken  out  of  their  shells;  add  butter  and  spices  to  taste 
and  serve. 

Clam  Ohowdbb. 

Put  in  a  pot  some  small  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  enough  to  line 
the  bottom  of  it;  on  that  a  layer  of  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces; 
on  the  potatoes' a  layer  of  chopped  onions;  on  the  onions  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  in  slices,  or  canned  tomatoes;  on  these  a  layer  of  clams, 
whole  or  chdpped  (they  are  generally  chopped),  then  a  layer  of 
crackers.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  other  spices  if  desired. 
Then  repeat  this  process,  layer  after  layer,  in  above  order,  seasoning 
each,  until  the  pot  is  full.     When  the  whole  is  in,  cover  with  watec^ 

251 


253  SHELL  FISH. 

Bet  on  a  slow  fire,  and  when  nearly  done  stir  gently,  finish  cooking 
and  serve. 

When  dcme,  if  found  too  thin,  boil  a  little  longer;  if  found  too 
thick,  add  a  little  water,  give  one  boil  and  serve.  JFuh  Chowder 
is  made  exactly  like  clam  chowder,  except  that  fish  are  used  instead 

» 

of  clams. 

Clam  Fbittebs. 
Twelve  clams,  minced  fine,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs;  add  the 
liquor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk;  beat  up  the  eggs  and  add  to  this, 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter;  lastly  add 
the  chopped  clams.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  trying  a  little  first  to  see  if 
fat  and  batter  are  right.  A  tablespoonful  .makes  a  fritter  of 
moderate  size.     Fry  quickly  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Clams. 

Take  large  soft-shell  clams,  dry  them  in  a  napkin,  and  dip  them 
first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  powdered  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  sweet  lard  or  butter  or  both  mixed. 

Clam  Pib. 

Take  a  quantity  of  clams,  if  large  chop  them,  put  in  a  saucepan 
and  cook  in  their  own  liquor,  or,  if  necessary,  add  a  little  water; 
boil  three  or  four  medium-sized  potatoes  until  done,  then  cut  in 
slices;  line  a  pudding-dish  half  way  up  its  sides;  turn  a  small  teacup 
bottom  up  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  to  keep  up  the  top  crust,  put 
in  first  a  layer  of  clams  and  then  a  few  potatoes,  season  with  bits 
of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour;  add 
another  layer  of  clams,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  filled;  add  the 
liquor  in  which  the  clams  were  cooked  and  a  little  water  if  neces- 
sary. There  should  be  as  much  liquid  as  for  chicken  or  other  meat 
pie.  Cover  with  top  crust,  cut  places  for  steam  to  escape  and  bake 
three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

Clam  Stew. 

Put  the  clams  in  a  stewpan  with  about  the  same  quantity  of 
water  as  the  juice  of  the  clams.     Boil  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes; 


SHELL  FISH.  253 

remove  all  the  sctim  that  rises^  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Clam  Soup. 

Take  the  required  number  of  clams,  chop  them  fine,  then  cook  in 
a  little  water  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  almost  done  put 
in  milk  or  cream,  and  in  soup  enough  for  four  persons  put  one  cup 
of  rolled  crackers.    Serve  hot. 

Crabs. 

To  fit  them  for  the  table,  living  crabs  require  to  be  boiled  in  salt 
water;  they  are  either  placed  in  cold  water  which  is  then  made 
hot  or  put  at  once  into  boiling  water;  crabs  cooked  by  the  latter 
method  are  found  to  have  the  finest  flavor.  The  male  crab  is  the 
most  valuable  for  the  table,  and  may  be  distinguished  by  possessing 
larger  claws.  In  purchasing  crabs  in  the  living  state  preference 
should  be  given  to  those  which  have  a  rough  shell  and  claws. 
When  selecting  a  crab  which  has  been  cooked  it  should  be  held  by 
its  claws  and  well  shaken  from  side  to  side.  If  it  is  found  to  rattle, 
or  feels  as  if  it  contained  water,  it  is  a  proof  that  the  crab  is  of 
inferior  quality.  The  crab  may  be  kept  alive,  out  of  water,  two  or 
three  days. 

Soft    Cbabs. 

Many  will  not  eat  hard-shell  crabs,  considering  them  indigestible, 
and  not  sufficiently  palatable  to  compensate  for  the  risk  they  run  in 
eating  them.  And  it  must  be  owned  that  they  are,  at  their  best, 
but  an  indifferent  substitute  for  the  more  aristocratic  lobster.  But 
in  the  morning  of  life,  for  him  so  often  renewed,  his  crabship  is  a 
different  creature,  and  greatly  affected  by  epicures. 

Do  not  keep  the  crabs  over  night,  as  the  shells  harden  in  twenty* 
four  hours.  Pull  off  the  spongy  substance  from  the  sides,  and  the 
sand-bags.  These  are  the  only  portions  uneatable.  Wash  well  and 
wipe  dry.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  seething  hot  lard  or  butter  and  fry 
them  to  a  fine  brown.  Put  a  little  salt  into  the  lard;  the  butter 
will  need  none.     Send  up  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 


264  SHELL  FISH. 

Scalloped  Cbajb. 

Pick  oat  all  the  meat  of  the  crab  and  mix  thoroughly;  add  to  it 
one-third  its  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
divided  into  little  bits;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  dust  of 
grated  nutmeg  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
sprinkled  over  the  mass.  Mix  all  equally  together.  Clean  out  the 
bottom  shell  of  your  crab,  and  fill  it  with  the  mixture;  what  is  left 
you  may  put  into  scaUop-fihells  or  tins.  Set  them  into  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  When  hot  through  and  slightly  browned  on  the  surface 
they  are  fit  to  serve  on  a  dish  covered  with  a  napkin,  the  crab-shell 
in  the  middle  and  the  scallop-shells  around  it,  garnished  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

Fboos. 

Scald  the  hind  quarters  in  boiling  water,  rub  them  with  lemon 
juice  and  boil  for  three  minutes,  wipe  them,  dip  them  first  in 
oracker  dust,  then  in  a  mixture  of  two  beaten  eggs  in  half  a  cup  of 
milk  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  again  in  cracker  crumbs. 
When  they  are  well  covered  with  crumbs  fry  in  a  mixture  of  hot 
lard  and  butter. 

LoBSTBB  Croquettes. 

Chop  the  lobster  very  fine;  mix  with  pepper,  salt,  bread  crumbs 
and  a  little  parsley;  moisten  with,  cream  and  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
shape  with  your  hands;  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 

Lobster  Cutlets. 

Mince  the  flesh  of  lobsters  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
spice;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  mix  with  it  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour;  add  lobster  and  finely-chopped  parsley;  mix  with 
some  good  stock;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  spread  out  the  mixture,  and,  when  cold,  cut  into  cutlets, 
dip  carefully  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  fine  baked  bread  crumbs; 
let  them  stand  an  hour,  and  repeat,  and  fry  a  rich  brown.  Serve 
with  fried  parsley. 


8HBLL  FISH. 


256 


Fbied  Lobstbb. 

Ify  when  making  a  salad,  you  have  more  lobster  than  yon  wish  to 
nse  for  that,  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  and  fry  in  butter  and  bread 
crumbs  for  breakfast. 

LoBSTSK  Patties. 

Make  some  puff-paste  and  "spread  it  on  very  deep  patty  pans. 

Bake  it  empty.     Having  boiled  well  two  or  three  fine  lobsters, 

extract  all  the  meat  and  mince  it  very  small,  mixing  it  with  the 

coral  smoothly  mashed,  and  some  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg,  grated. 

Season  it  with  a  little  salt,  some  Cayenne,  and  some  powdered  mace 

or  nutmeg,  adding  a  little  yellow  lemon  rind,  grated.     Moisten  the 

mixture  well  with  cream,  fresh  butter,  or  salad  oil.     Put  it  into  a 

stewpan,  add  a  very  little  water,  and  let  it  steam  till  it  just  comes  to 

a  boil.     Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  the  patties  being  baked,  remove  them 

from  the  tin  pans,  place  them  on  a  large  dish,  and  fill  them  up  to 

the  top  with  the  mixture.     Similar  patties  may  be  made  of  prawns 

or  crabs. 

LoBSTEB  Rissoles. 

Extract  the  meat  of  a  boiled  lobster;  mince  it  as  fine  as  possible; 
mix  it  with  the  coral  pounded  smooth,  and  some  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  pounded  also.  Season  it  with  Cayenne  pepper,  pow- 
dered mace,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Make  a  batter  of  beaten  eggy 
milk  and  flour.  To  each  egg  allow  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  and  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Beat  the  batter  well,  and 
then  mix  the  lobster  with  it  gradually,  till  it  is  stiff  enough  to  make 
into  oval  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  plum.  Fry  them  in  the 
best  salad  oil,  and  serve  them  up  either  warm  or  cold.  Similar 
rissoles  may  be  made  of  raw  oysters  minced  fine,  or  of  boiled  clams. 
These  should  be  fried  in  lard. 

L0B8TBB  Salad. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shell,  cut  into  nice  square  pieces,  cut  up 
flome  lettuce  and  mix.  Make  a  dressing  of  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
oU,  two  of  vinegar,  one  of  mustard,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  pep- 


266  SHELL  FISH. 

per  and  salt  to  taste;  mb  smooth  together,  forming  a  creamy  look- 
ing saace,  and  cover  the  lobster  with  it.  Garnish  with  sliced 
cucumber  pickles,  egg-rings,  parsley  and  cold  beet  cut  in  fancy 
shapes. 

Bhoilsb  Lobbtsb. 

•  Cut  the  tail  part  of  a  lobster  in  two,  rub  a  little  sweet  oil  over 
the  meat  and  broil.  When  done,  brush  a  little  butter  over  it  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  very  little  Cayenne.  Place  the  meat 
back  into  the  shell  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  dish  of  broiled 
tomatoes  and  a  fresh  baked  potato. 

LOBSTBBS   BN  BbOCHKITB. 

Cut  up  the  tail  of  a  lobster  in  square  pieces;  take  a  few  thin 
slices  of  bacon  and  cut  into  lengths  to  match  the  lobster;  place 
them  on  a  skewer  alternately  and  broil;  baste  as  in  broiled  lobster 
and  send  to  the  table  on  a  bed  of  water-cresses. 

BOASTBD  LOBSTBBS. 

When  lobsters  are  half  cooked,  remove  from  the  water  and  mb 
thoroughly  with  butter;  lay  before  the  fire;  continue  basting  with 
butter  until  it  has  a  fine  froth  and  the  shell  becomes  a  dark  brown. 
Place  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  plain  melted  butter  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Gbatin  of  Lobstbb. 

Take  out  all  the  meat  from  a  large  lobster,  then  wash  the  body^ 
tail,  and  shells,  if  the  lobster  is  first  cut  in  halves  down  the  back^ 
then  dry  and  butter  them  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs;  chop 
the  meat  fine,  with  a  little  parsley  and  shallot,  a  few  drops  of 
essence  of  anchovies,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
a  little  bechamel  sauce,  and  boil  all  well  together,  add  a  yolk  of 
eggy  put  it  to  cool,  then  fill  your  shells  or  paper  cases,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs  and  some  pieces  of  butter;  brown  them  in  the  oven, 
and  dish  on  a  napkin. 

Bboilbd  Oystbbs. 

Drain  select  oysters  in  a  colander;  dip  them  one  by  one  into 


• 

t 


SHELL  PISH.  257 

melted  butter,  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  gridiron,  and  place  them 
on  a  wire  gridiron.  Broil  over  a  clear  fire.  When  nicely  browned 
on  both  sides,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter,  and 
lay  them  on  hot  buttered  toast,  moistened  with  a  little  hot  water. 
Serve  very  hot,  or  they  will  not  be  nice.  Oysters  cooked  in  this 
way  and  served  on  broiled  beefsteak  are  nice. 

Oystbb  Chowdeb. 

Pry  out  three  rashers  of  pickled  pork  in  the  pot  you  make  the 
chowder;  add  to  it  three  potatoes  and  two  onions,  both  sliced;  boil 
until  they  are  nearly  cooked;  soak  two  or  three  dozen  crackers  in 
cold  water  a  few  minutes,  then  put  into  the  pot  half  a  can  of  oys- 
ters, one  quart  of  milk  and  the  soaked  crackers.  Boil  all  together 
a  few  minutes;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Fish  chowder 
can  be  made  the  same  way  by  using  fresh  fish  instead  of  oysters. 

Oystxb  Cboqubttes. 

Take  the  hard  end  of  the  oyster,  leaving  the  other  end  in  nice 
chape  for  a  soup  or  stew;  scald  them,  then  chop  fine  and  add  an 
equal  weight  of  potatoes  rubbed  through  a  colander;  to  one  pound 
of  this  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
teaspoonf ul  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace,  and  one-half  gill 
of  cream;  make  in  small  rolls,  dip  in  egg  and  grated  bread,  fry  in 
deep  lard. 

Fbicassbbb  Otstebs. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters,  strain  half  a  pint  and 
put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  oysters. 
Have  a  tablespoonf ul  of  flour  rubbed  well  into  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  When  the  oysters  begin  to  swell,  stir  in  the  butter  and 
flour,  cook  until  the  oysters  are  white  and  plump;  then  add  a  gill 
of  cream  and  pepper  and  salt. 

Fbibd  Otstbbs. 

Take  large  oysters,  wash  and  drain.     Dip  them  into  flour;  put  in 

a  hot  frying  pan  with  plenty  of  lard  and  butter;  season  with  salt 
I'i 


i: 


268  ,  SHELL  PISH. 

and  pepper;  fry  brown  on  both  sides.     Fried  in  this  way,  they  are 
similar  to  broiled  oysters. 

Fbied  Otstbbs,  No.  2. 

Drain,  remove  all  bits  of  shell,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  minutes.  Then,  if  the  oysters  are 
small,  pour  them  into  a  pan  of  crackers,  rolled  fine;  add  liquor,  mix 
well  and  let  stand  five  minutes;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  mold 
into  small  cakes,  with  two  or  three  oysters  in  each,  roll  in  dry 
erackers  and  fry  in  lard  and  butter.     Serve  hot  in  a  covered  disbu 

Chicken  and  Oysteb  Pie. 

Parboil  a  chicken;  cut  up  and  place  in  a  pie  dish;  cover  with 
oysters  and  season  to  taste;  add  two  harcL-boiled  eggs  cut  into 
slices,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg,  in  the  center;  dust  the 
whole  with  flour,  and  pour  on  one-half  pint  of  milk;  put  on  a  puff- 
paste  crust  and  bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven, 

SCALLOPlBiP   Oy8TEE8. 

Prepare  stale  bread-crumbs,  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt; 
butter  a  deep  dish;  cover  the  bottom  with  the  crumbs;  add  a  layer 
of  large-sized  oysters,  with  butter;  fill  the  dish  alternately  with 
oysters,  crumbs  and  butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  cooked 
entirely  through;  if  they  become  too  brown  on  the  top,  cover  with 
paper.  If  preferred,  scallop  the  oysters  separately  and  serve  in  the 
shells,  observing  that  the  shells  are  well  cleaned.  Instead  of  crumbs 
use  elices  of  well-buttered  bread,  if  you  like,  or  bake  with  a  crust 
of  puff-paste. 

Park' Row  Oystee  Stew. 

Put  the  oysters  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  liquor  to  cover  them ; 
add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  stir  every  now  and  then  while 
on  the  fire,  and  when  poured  into  the  dish,  put  in  about  a  table- 
spoonful  of  milk  to  every  ten  oysters. 

Oyster  soup  is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  that  more  liquor  is 


1 


SHELL  FISH.  269 

added,  and  a  tableapoonful  of  pounded  butter  crackers;  add  plenty 
of  milk  the  last  thing  when  the  oysters  are  cooked,  and  let  it  boil 
up  once. 

Mabtland  Stbwbd  Oysters. 

Put  the  juice  into  a  saucepan  and  let  it  simmer,  skimming  it  care- 
fully; then  rub  the  yolks,  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  and  one  large 
spoonful  of  flour  well  together,  and  stir  into  the  juice.  Cut  in 
small  pieces  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
whole  allspice,  a  little  salt,  a  little  Cayenne,  and  the  juice  of  a  fresh 
lemon;  let  all  simmer  ten  minutes^  and  just  before  dishing,  add  the 
oysters.     This  is  for  two  quarts  of  oysters. 

Plain  Stew. 

One  quart  of  oysters  with  liquor,  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  piece 
of  butter  size  of  egg,  pepper  and  salt;  boil  all  together  until  done. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Set  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes; 
then  remove  them  from  the  liquor  and  stir  into  it  some  flour  and 
butter  well  rubbed  together,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  it 
has  boiled  well  for  five  minutes  put  in  the  oysters  and  9^nre 
immediately. 

Oyster  Re. 

Make  a  rich  puff  paste;  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for  a  frn/<.  t>ie, 
for  the  top  crust — about  the  ordinary  thickness  for  the  lower,  liine 
ii  pudding  dish  with  the  thinner,  and  fill  with  crusts  of  dry  bread 
or  light  crackers.  Some  use  a  folded  towel  to  fill  the  interioi  of  the 
pie,  but  the  above  expedient  is  preferable.  Butter  the  ed^.^es  of 
the  dish,  that  you  may  be  able  to  lift  the  tapper  crust  without 
breaking.  Cover  the  mock  pie  with  the  thick  crust,  ornamented 
heavily  at  the  edge,  that  it  may  lie  the  more  quietly,  and  bake. 
Cook  the  oysters  as  for  a  stew,  only  beating  into  them  at  the  last» 
two  eggs,  and  thickening  with  a  spoonful  of  fine  cracker  crumbs  or 
rice  flour.     They  should  stew  but  five  minutes,  and  time  them  so 


260  SHELL  FISH. 

that  the  paste  will  be  baked  just  in  season  to  receive  them.     Lift 
the  top  crust,  pour  in  the  smoking  hot  oysters,  and  send  up  hot. 

Many  consider  it  unnecessary  to  prepare  the  oysters  and  crust 
separately;  but  experience  and  observation  go  to  prove  that  if  the 
precaution  be  omitted,  the  oysters  are  apt  to  be  wof uUy  overdone. 
The  maker  can  try  both  methods  and  take  her  choice. 

PiCKLKD    OtSTEKS. 

One  ounce  each  of  allspice,  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  quart 
vinegar;  scald  all  together,  then  put  in  the  oysters,  waiting  until  it 
is  cool;  next  day  scald  all  together. 

Otsteb  Pattibs. 

Line  small  patty-pans  with  puff  paste;  into  eaoh  pan  put  six 
oysters,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour 
and  hard-boiled  eggti,  chopped  (allowing  about  two  eggs  for  six 
patties),  cover  with  an  upper  crust,  notch  the  edges  and  bake;  serve 
either  in  the  pans  or  remove  them  to  a  larger  platter. 

Oyster  Pot-Pie. 

Have  ready  nice  light-raised  biscuit  dough,  cut  into  small  squares. 
Season  the  oysters  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken 
them  with  a  little  flour;  drop  in  the  pieces  of  dough  and  boil  till 
done.  This  may  be  baked  in  the  oven  in  a  pudding-dish,  allowing 
the  dough  to  brown  on  the  top. 

Roasted  Oysters. 

Take  oysters  in  the  shell,  wash  the  shells  clean,  and  lay  them  on 
hot  coals;  when  they  are  done  they  will  begin  to  open.  Remove 
the  upper  shell,  and  serve  the  oysters  in  the  lower  shell,  with  a  little 
melted  butter  poured  over  each. 

Oysters,  Fancy  Roast. 

Toast  a  few  slices  of  bread,  and  butter  them;  lay  them  in  a 
shallow  dish;  put  on  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  to  heat;  add  salt  and 
pepper,  and  just  before  it  boils  add  the  oysters;  let  them  boU  up 
once,  and  pour  over  the  bread. 


^_- 


.1 


SHELL  FISH.  261 

OySTEB   a   la   PbuLBttTB. 

Scald  a  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  salt  and  remove  the 
oysters;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a 
gill  of  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  one 
egg  while  the  sauce  is  simmering;  add  the  egg  and  simmer  the 
whole  until  it  thickens.  Place  the  oysters  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  them,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsl^  on  the  top  and 
serve. 

Raw  Oysters. 

For  a  party,  serve  on  a  handsome  block  of  ice  in  which  a  cavity 
has  been  made  with  a  hot  flat-iron.  Set  the  ic^  on  a  pl^^ter  and 
garnish  the  edges  with  slices  of  lemon.  Have  pepper,  salt  and 
vinegar  on  hand;  also  serve  with  lemon  juice. 

Oysters  with  Toast. 

Broil  x>r  fry  as  many  oysters  as  you  wish,  and  lay  them  on  but- 
tered  toast;  salt  and  pepper;  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  hot,  rich 
cream;  keep. them  perfectly  hot  until  eaten. 

Oyster  Flavor. 

A  German  cook  has  discovered  a  way  to  have  oyster  flavor  all  the 
year  round.  Take  fresh,  large,  plump  oysters,  beard  them  and 
place  them  in  a  vessel  over  the  fire  for  a  few  moments  in  order  to 
extract  the  juice,  then  put  them  to  cool,  and  chop  them  verv  fine 
With  powdered  biscuit,  mace,  and  finely  minced  lemon  peel;  pound 
them  until  they  become  a  paste;  make  them  up  into  thin  cakes, 
place  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  in  a  slow  oven  and  let  them  bake 
until  they  become  quite  hard;  pound  them  directly  into  powder, 
and  place  the  powder  in  a  dry  tin  box,  well  covered;  keep  in  a  dry 
place,  and  it  will  be  very  much  appreciated  when  the  true  oyster 
flavor  is  imparted  to  fish,  sauces  and  dishes.  This  makes  a  delicious 
sauce  for  fresh  cod. 

New  Way  op  Preparing  Oysters. 
The   ways  of  preparing  oysters  are  not  many.     This  xnethod. 


262  SHELL  FISH. 

however,  is  not  widely  known:  Take  two  dozen  oysters  and  throw 
them  in  a  large  deep  dish;  then  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley 
chopped  fine,  a  little  lemon  rind  grated,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and 
the  crumbs  of  a  stale  French  roll,  also  grated;  let  the  latter  be  well 
incorporated,  adding  some  Cayenne.  Have  in  readiness  the  yolks 
of  three  fresh  eggs  beaten  up  into  a  foam;  dip  each  oyster  sepa- 
rately into  the  eggs  and  roll  them  into  the  bread  crumbs  until  they 
are  all  covered  with  a  good  coat.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  in  the  oven  till  it  is  melted  while  arranging  the  oysters  in 
the  pan,  then  turn  them  continually  until  they  assume  a  perfect 
brown  and  crusty  appearance.  When  fully  cooked  serve  them  with 
some  celery,  salt  and  thin  slices  of  Graham  bread  and  butter. 

•  Scallops. 

The  heart  is  the  only  part  used.  If  you  buy  them  in  the  shell, 
boil  and  take  out  the  hearts.  Those  sold  in  our  markets  are  gen- 
erally ready  for  frying  or  stewing.  Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Or,  you  may  stew  them 
like  oysters.     The  fried  scallops  are  generally  preferred. 

Terrapins,  or  Water  Turtles. 

Land  terrapins,  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  say,  are  uneatable,  but 
the  large  turtle  that  frequents  our  mill-ponds  and  rivers  can  be 
converted  into  a  relishable  article  of  food.  Plunge  the  turtle  into 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  let  him  lie  there  five  minutes.  You  can 
then  skin  the  under  part  easily,  and  pull  off  the  homy  parts  of  the 
feet.  Lay  him  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  salt  and  water;  then  put 
into  more  hot  water  salted,  but  not  too  much.  Boil  until  tender. 
The  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age.  Take  him  out,  drain 
and  wipe  dry;  loosen  the  shell  carefully,  not  to  break  the  flesh;  cut 
open  also  with  care,  lest  you  touch  the  gall-bag  with  the  knife. 
Remove  this  with  the  entrails  and  sand-bag.  Cut  up  all  the  rest  of 
the  animal  into  small  bits;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  chopped 
onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  some  spiced  sauce,  or  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  catsup — ^walnut  or  mushroom.     Save  the  juice  that 


SHELL  FISH.  263 

ruDB  from  the  meat,  and  put  all  together  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
eiosely-fitting  top.  Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasion- 
ally, and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  or  a  teaspoonf ul  browned 
flour  wet  in  cold  water,  a  glass  of  brown  sherry,  and  lastly,  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  hot  liquor,  that  it 
may  not  curdle.  Boil  up  once  and  turn  into  a  covered  dish.  Send 
around  green  pickles  and  delicate  slices  of  toast  with  it. 


r 


I 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

GAME. 

To  Select  Game. 

|H£ASANTS. — ^A  young  cock  pheasant  will  hure  8li<  rt  and 
blunt  spurs^  while  an  old  one  will  have  them  long  and!  eharp. 
A  hen  pheasant  may  be  known  by  its  plumage,  and  itc.  flavor 

is  preferred  by  many,  though  not  by  all,  except  when  almost  ready 

to  lay. 

^hrottse. — These  are  judged  of  the  same  as  pheasants. 

Woodcock. — When  these  are  fat  they  will  feel  thick  and  firm, 
and  a  streak  of  fat  will  appear  on  the  side  of  the  breast.  Fresh 
birds  will  have  supple  feet,  and  the  head  and  throat  clear;  whoreas, 
when  stale,  the  feet  are  stiff,  and  the  head  and  throat  nasty. 

Pigeons. — ^Tame  pigeons,  when  fresh  and  in  good  order,  are 
plump,  and  have  their  feet  pliable  and  of  a  dusky  white.  Wild 
pigeons  are  not  reckoned  so  good  as  tame,  but  they  improve  with 
keeping.  They  are  not  so  fat  but  are  to  be  chosen  by  the  oame 
rules  as  the  others. 

Sores. — ^An  old  hare  does  very  well  for  soup,  but  for  ordinary 
purposes  it  is  by  no  means  desirable.  It  will  be  distinguished  by 
its  dry,  tough  ears,  its  blunted  claws  and  its  widely-parted  lips.  A 
young  hare  has  soft  and  tender  ears,  sharpish  claws,  and  the  paffing 
of  the  lip  close. 

jRcMit. — ^An  old  rabbit  will  have  long,  rough  claws,  and  fur 
often  inclining  to  grey.  When  fresh,  the  body  will  be  rather  «tiff 
and  the  flesh  dry  and  pale;  but  if  stale,  it  will  be  limper  and  the 
flesh  dark  colored. 

964 


GAME.  265 

I 

Venison. — Choose  the  dark-colored  meat,  not  the  black,  but  the 
rich  reddish-brown,  with  fine  grain,  and  well  coated  with  fat. 
Keep  it  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar,  covered  with  a  cloth,  and 
use  as  soon  as  you  can  conveniently. 

To  Pot  Bibds. 

Prepare  them  as  for  roasting;  fill  each  with  a  dressing  made  as 
follows:  Allow  for  each  bird  the  size  of  a  pigeon  one-half  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  pork;  season  the  birds  with  pepper  and 
salt;  stuff  them  and  lay  them  in  a  kettle  that  has  a  tight  cover. 
Place  over  the  birds  a  few  slices  of  pork,  add  a  pint  of  water, 
dredge  over  them  a  little  flour,  cover,  and  put  them  in  a  hot  oven. 
Let  them  cook  until  tender,  then  add  a  little  cream  and  butter.  If 
the  sauce  is  too  thin,  thicken  with  flour.  One  pint  of  water  is  suf- 
ficient for  twelve  birds. 

Rbed  Birds. 

"These  delicious  lumps  of  sweetness,  as  they  are  appropriately 
called,  are  always  acceptable,  but  to  thoroughly  appreciate  a  reed 
bird  dinner  one  must  mingle  with  the  gunners  on  the  Delaware 
river  as  guest  or  member  of  one  of  the  many  clubs  whose  houses 
are  situated  within  a  few  hundred  yards  of  the  hunting  grounds. 
After  the  judge's  decision  as  to  who  has  high  boat,  the  birds  are 
plucked  (and  at  some  of  the  club  houses  drawn),  arranged  neatly  in 
a  dripping-pan  with  bits  of  fresh  country  butter  between  them. 
They  are  allowed  to  cook  on  one*  side  a  few  minutes,  and  with  a 
long-handled  spoon  are  turned  over  to  brown  on  the  other  side.  A 
little  salt  is  added  and  they  are  then  placed  on  a  hot  platter  en 
pfframide  and  the  gravy  poured  over  them;  they  are  then  sent  to 
the  table  with  fried  chipped  potatoes." 

Reed  Bibds  a  la  Lindeihi'hobpe. 

On  "ladies' day"  ibhe  members  of  this  club  are  more  particular 
than  on  "  member's  day."  They  prepare  the  birds  by  drawing  the 
trail  and  removing  the  head;  they  then  take  large  sweet  or  Irish 


266  6AKE. 

potatoes,  cut  them  in  twd,  scoop  out  the  insides,  and  put  an  oyster 
or  small  piece  of  bacon  inside  of  each  bird  and  put  the  birds  inside 
the  potatoes,  tie  them  up  with  twine  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are 
done.  The  common  twine  is  then  removed  and  the  potatoes  are 
tied  with  a  narrow  piece  of  white  or  colored  tape  in  a  neat  bow- 
knot  and  sent  to  the  table  on  a  napkin. 

Roast  Praibib  Chickbn. 

The  bird  being  a  little  strong,  and  its  flesh,  when  cooked,  a  little 
dry,  it  should  be  either  larded  or  wide  strips  of  bacon  or  pork 
placed  over  its  breast.  A  mild-seasoned  stuffing  will  improve  the 
flavor  of  old  birds.  Dust  a  little  flower  over  them,  baste  occasion- 
ally and  serve. 

Pheasants  may  be  managed  in  the  same  way. 

Praibib  Chickbn. 

Clean  iiicely,  using  a  little  soda  in  the  water  in  which  they  are 
washed;  rinse  them  and  drain,  and  fill  with  dressing,  sewing  them 
np  nicelj,  and  binding  down  the  lego  and  wings  with  cord.  Put 
them  in  a  steamer  and  let  them  cook  ten  minutes;  then  put  them  in 
a  pan  with  a  little  butter,  set  them  in  an  oven  and  baste  frequently 
until  of  a  nice  brown.  They  should  brown  in  about  thirty-five 
minutes.  Serve  them  in  a  platter  with  sprigs  of  parsley  alternated 
with  currant  jelly. 

Partridges  and  quails  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Boast  Pabtridgbs,  Pheasants  ob  Quails. 

Pluck,  singe,  draw  and  truss  them,  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
roast  for  about  half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven,  basting  often  with 
butter.  When  done,  place  on  a  dish  together  with  bread  crumbs 
fried  brown  and  arranged  in  small  heaps.  Gravy  should  be  served 
in  a  tureen  apart. 

Quail  ok  Toast. 

Pick  and  clean,  cut  in  the  middle  of  back,  fry  in  butter  to  a  nice 
brown,  salt  and  pepper;  now  put  in  an  earthem  or  porcelain-lined 


GAMB.  267 

dish,  one  tablespoonful  of  nice  batter  and  the  same  of  flour:  stir  on 
a  slow  fire  until  butter  is  dissolved;  then  pour  in  slowly  two-thirda 
glass  of  water  and  the  same  quantity  of  wine;  salt  and  pepper;  put 
in  your  birds  that  are  nicely  fried,  simmer  slowly  one-quarter  of  an 
hour;  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  (one  toast  to  each  bird);  put 
in  the  dish  you  wish  to  serve,  laying  the  birds  on  top;  pour  tiio 
gravy  over  all;   serve  very  hot. 

To  Bboil  Quail  or  Woodcock. 

After  dresssing,  split  down  the  back,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron,  the  inside  down.  Broil  slowly  at 
first.     Serve  with  cream  gravy. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Dress  and  wash  clean,  split  down  the  back,  and  then  proceed  as 
for  chicken  pie. 

BOABT   PlOBOKB. 

When  cleaned  and  ready  for  roasting,  fill  the  bird  with  a  stuffing 
of  bread  crumbs,  a  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
three  oysters  to  each  bird  (some  prefer  chopped  apple).  They  must 
be  well  basted  with  melted  butter,  and  require  thirty  minutes  of 
careful  cooking.  They  are  best  in  the  autumn,  and  should  be  full 
grown. 

To  Boast  Pigeons. 

They  should  be  dressed  while  fresh.  If  young,  they  will  be 
ready  for  roasting  in  twelve  hours.  Dress  carefully,  and  after 
making  clean,  wipe  dry  and  put  into  each  bird  a  small  piece  of 
butter  dipped  in  Cayenne.  Truss  the  wings  over  the  back  and  roast 
in  a  quick  oven,  keeping  them  constantly  basted  with  butter. 
Serve  with  brown  gravy.     Dish  them  with  young  water-cresses. 

Pigeon  Compote. 

Truss  six  pigeons  as  for  boiling.  Grate  the  crumbs  of  a  small 
loaf  of  bread,  scrape  one  pound  of  fat  bacon,  chop  thyme,  parsley, 
an  onion  and  lemon — ^peel  fine — and  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 


d68  GAME. 

mix  it  up  with  two  eggs;  pat  this  forcemeat  into  the  craws  of  the 
pigeons,  lard  the  breasts  and  fry  brown;  place  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  some  beef  stock  and  stew  them  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
thicken  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Serve  with  f  orcC'^ 
meat  balls  around  the  dish  and  strain  the  gravy  on  to  the  pigeon. 

Wild  Duck  oe  Mallard. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  of  wild  fowl.  Truss  it  as  you  would  a  tame 
luck,  but  it  is  not  usual  to  stuff  it.  As  soon  as  you  have  plucked 
.md  emptied  it,  boil  down  the  giblets  with  a  little  bit  of  beef,  to 
make  savory  brown  gravy,  flavored  with  lemon  juice  and  wine. 
Wild  duck  is  better  served  a  little  more  under-done  than  tame 
duck.  Some  carvers  slice  the  breast,  and  dose  it  with  Cayenne, 
lemon  juice  and  its  own  roast  gravy — ^a  mode  of  dressing  admissible 
only  when  everybody  likes  high  seasoning.  The  bones  of  the  wild 
duok  are  smaller  than  those  of  the  tame.  The  teal,  the  jewel  of 
water  fowl,  if  fat,  should  be  laid  each  on  its  slice  of  toast,  roasted 
before  the  fire;  turn  it  over  now  and  then,  and  serve  on  the  toast. 
The  ooot,  on  account  of  its  black  and  very  downy  skin,  is  best 
flayed,  ^ut  into  joints,  and  stewed  with  wine  as  a  matelote.  It 
then  beooi^es  dzcellent  eating. 

Wild  Goosb, 

When  to  be  had,  is  a  treat  for  lovers  of  wild  fowl;  and  yet, 
strange  to  say,  there  is  a  prejudice  against  it,  as  fishy.  Some  few 
species  of  geese  may  indeed  graze  on  seaweed,  and  perhaps  even 
swallow  a  few  shell-fish  when  they  happen  to  alight  on  the  shore, 
hard  pressed  by  hunger;  but,  as  a  rule,  there  is  no  cleaner  feeding 
bird  than  the  goose,  feeding  upon  herbs  or  grain,  but  preferring  the 
former  as  the  staple  of  its  diet.  We  know  of  no  wild  goose  which 
is  not  excellent  to  eat,  when  obtained  at  the  proper  age  and  in  good 
•condition. 

Wild  geese  are  roasted  and  served  in  the  same  way  as  wild  ducks. 

A  satisfactory  combination  is  made  by  taking  a  little  bone,  some 
cartilage  or  tendon  for  the  sake  of  its  gelatine,  sufficient  fat — ^to  be 


GAMB. 


2btf 


supplied,  if  the  meat  has  none,  from  white  baoon  or  fresh  pork — 
and  plenty  of  the  flesh  of  whatever  constitutes  the  pate.  Pack 
these  closely  together,  filling  the  interstices  with  minced  fresh  pork 
or  veal,  season  well,  but  not  in  excess;  flavor  with  bay-leaf,  chopped 
shallot  or  onion,  and  lemon  peel;  with  bits  of  truffle  (when  possible), 
hard  egg,  and  button  mushrooms  interspersed  here  and  there 
through  its  substance,  and  half  a  tumbler  of  wine,  with  a  little 
catsup  poured  in  to  prevent  too  much  drying  up.  Bake  this  in  a 
gentle  oven,  and  let  it  stand  at  least  twenty-four  hours  before 
cutting  it  up.  '  It  will  keep  some  time,  especially  if  untouched,  and 
will  be  found  improved  and  ripened  at  the  end  of  three  or  four  days. 

Roast  Habb. 

Broil  the  hare  slightly  over  the  coals,  to  give  firmness  to  the 
flesh,  then  cover  it  with  slices  of  fat  pork  from  the  neck  to  the  legs. 
Then  roast  it  for  an  hour,  and  serve  it  with  sauce  jt>t;uan^e  prepared 
with  the  crushed  liver. 

A  NicB  Way  to  Pbbpabb  Cold  Habb. 

Remove  the  flesh  from  the  roast  hare,  and  cut  it  in  strips.  After*^ 
ward  break  the  bones  and  cook  with  them  some  butter  and  flour,, 
onions,  parsley,  thyme,  chives,  salt,  pepper,  red  wine,  and  stock 
broth;  boil  them  down  to  one-fourth,  and  having  strained  the  gravy,, 
put  the  slices  of  hare  into  it  and  serve  it  up  without  again  boiling  it. 

Roast  Rabbit. 
Rabbits  are  roasted  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for  hare. 

Rabbit  with  Hbbbs. 

^Cut  a  rabbit  in  pieces  and  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  butter, 
parsley,  chives,  mushrooms,  bay-leaves,  and  thyme,  chopped  fine. 
When  done  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  to  thicken  it. 

Vbnison  Chops. 

Broiled  and  served  with  currant  jelly  are  not  to  be  despised.. 
Trim  the  ends  as  you  would  a  French  lamb  chop. 


910  GAMB. 

YbNISON  EPICUBBAir. 

Cat  a  Bteak  from  the  leg  or  a  chop  from  the  loin  of  venison  about 
an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Pat  a  walnut  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
into  a  chafing-dish;  light  the  spirit-lamp  under  it,  and  when  the 
butter  melts  put  in  the  chop  or  steak;  let  it  cook  on  one  side  a  few 
minutes,  then  turn  it  over,  and  add  a  wineglassful  of  sherry  or  port 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Simmer  gently  about  seven 
minutes  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  rare,  and  allow  twelve  minutes'  cooking 
if  required  well  done. 

Venison  Patties. 

Make  a  nicely-flavored  mince  of  the  remains  of  cold  roast  venison; 
moisten  it  with  a  little  sherry  or  gravy,  and  warm  it  in  a  saucepan; 
fill  the  patty-shells  with  the  meat  and  serve,  as  oyster  patties. 


Cov  beef  is  inferior,  its  fat  is  whiter,  the  le&n  closer  in  the  grain 
and  not  of  bo  bright  a  red.     Bull  beef  has  white  and  shining  fat. 


27S  lURKETINa. 

cloee-grsined  lean  of  a  dark  red,  and  a  stronger  smell  than  other 
beef. 

The  prinoipal  parte  are  as  foUoTs: 


BscnoN  or  EniiLOCK. 
1.  Cheek.  10.  BuitoiD. 

9.  Neck  or  SUcking  Piece.  11.  Thin  Flank. 

S.  Clod.  12.  Rump. 

4.  Shin.  18.  Allch-bono. 

5.  Shoulder  or  Leg  of  Hutton  Piece.      14.  Round  or  Buttock. 
«.  Chuck  Biba.  15.  Houae  Bullock. 

7.  Middle  Ribs.  16.  TeinrPieoe. 

8.  Fore  Ritie.  17.  Thick  Flank. 
«.  BrbkeL  18.~  Leg. 

Besides  the  above  there  are  the  kidneys,  heart,  tripe,  sveet- 
breads,  tongue,  and  palate. 

Good  beef  is  more  elastic  to  the  touch  than  that  which  La  old 
or  in  bad  condition,  so  that  when  pressed  with  the  finger  the 
impresBion  will  not  be  permanent.  In  poor  meat,  the  lean  is  usually 
dark,  the  fat  skinny,  and  the  sinewy  portions  distinctly  shown, 
especially  a  homy  texture  in  the  ribs.  Beef  should  be  perfectly 
sound,  sweet  and  fresh,  as  taint  rapidly  spreads,  and  if  frosted  it 
will  not  cook  properly.  It  is,  perhaps,  scarcely  needful  to  say,  that 
several  of  the  joints  which  are  enumerated  above,  are  readily  and 
commonly  divided  by  the  butcher  and  sold  in  portions  for  the 
convenience  of  small  families  and  slender  purees.  If,  at  any  time, 
more  is  bought  than  is  wanted  for  present  use,  care  shonld  be  taken 
to  let  it  be  from  such  parts  as  may  be  cut  into  two,  the  one  for 


MARKETING. 


273 


roasting  and  the  other  for  ssdtmg  and  boiling;  or  let  it  be  such  as 
may  be  easily  warmed  a-fresh,  or  otherwise  presented  hot  again  at 


A.  Hump. 

B.  Mouse  Buttock. 

C.  Leg  or  Hock.      ,^ 

D.  Buttock  or  Round. 

E.  Aitch-bone  or  Top. 

F.  Surloin. 

G.  Fore  Ribs. 
H.  Middle  BSbs, 


I.  Chuck  Rib. 

J.  Neck,  Clod,  or  Sticking  Piece. 
E.  Shin. 

L.  Shoulder  or  Leg  of  Mutton  Piece. 
M.  Brisket. 
N.  Thin  Flank. 
O.  Thick  Flank. 


P.  Veiny  Piece. 

table,  which  will  be  the  case  with  snch  parts  as  are  stewed,  and 
such  cheap  portions  as  the  heart,  and  cold  roasted  ox-heart  cut  into 
slices  and  warmed  in  gravy  is  as  good  as  when  first  cooked. 


SECTIONS  OF  SHBaSP,  OB  LAMB. 

6.  Best  end  of  loin. 

6.  Best  end  of  neck. 

7.  Chump  end  of  loia. 

4.  Scrag  end  of  neck.  -  8.  Head. 

18 


1.  Leg. 

2.  Shoulder. 
8.  Breast. 


276  MARKETING. 

1 
Young  Dorking,  Spanish  and  Cochin  should  be  provided  for  boil- 
ing.    For  brothy  an  old  hen  will  do,  if  well  cooked. 

Oeese. — ^A  young  goose  will  have  its  beak  and  feet  yell(9w  with  a 
very  few  bristles  about  them;  but  an  old  bird  will  have  the  feet 
and  bill  red  and  bristly.  When  fresh,  the  feet  are  pliable,  but 
stiff  and  dry  when  stale.  The  fat  of  a  young  bird  is  whiter  and 
softer  than  that  of  an  old  bird,  and  the  breast  is  plump,  as  is  the 
case  with  all  poultry  in  good  condition;  knowing  which  the  dealers 
have  a  trick  of  breaking  the  breast  bones  to  deceive  their  custom- 
ers, and  foist  upon  them  old  birds  for  young  ones. 

Jhicka, — ^The  feet  and  legs  of  a  fresh  killed  duck  are  pliable  and 
soft,  but  those  of  a  stale  one  are  stiff  and  dry.  Freshness  of  the 
eye  is  an  indication  of  a  fresh  bird.  A  wild  duck  has  rather  small, 
reddish  feet,  while  those  of  a  tame  duck  are  a  dusky  yellow,  and 
somewhat  large.  An  old  duck  should  be  kept  hanging  a  few  days 
before  it  is  cooked;  it  will  generally  be  lean  and  thin  as  compared 
with  a  plump  young  bird« 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

MEATS. 

£fi  Bebf,  ArrcHBODB  of,  to  Casts. 

^N  earring  an  aitchbone  of  beef  it  is  necessary  that  it  shonld  be 
5     cut  across  the  grain.     In  order  to  do  this  the  knife  shonld 
^     follow  the  line  A  to  B  in  the  illustration.- ,  The  meat  should  be 
cut   of   a  moderate   thickness,  and 
very  evenly.    Cut  the  lean  and  the 
fat  in  Okie  slice,  and  if  more  fat  is 
wanted  it  should  foe  taken  horizon- 
tally from  the  aide.     Before  proceed-  ^ 

ing  to  serve,  a  slice  of  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness  should 
be  cut  from  the  top,  bo  that  the  juicy  part  of  the  meat  may  be 
obtained  at  once. 

Bbibkbt  of  Bebf  Stbwbd. 

Take  six  pounds  of  beef,  and,  before  dressing  it,  rub  it  over  with 
vinegar  and  salt;  place  it  in  a  stewpanwith  stock  or  water  sufficient 
to  cover  it.  Allow  it  to  simmer  for  an  hour,  skimming  it  well  all 
the  time.  Put  in  six  each  of  carrots,  turnips,  and  small  onions;  and 
allow  all  to  simmer  until  the  meat  is  quite  tender,  which  will 
require  about  two  hours  more.  As  soon  as  it  is  ready  the  bones 
should  be  removed.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes  as  much  of  the  gravy 
as  will  be  required  with  flour  and  a  little  butter,  and  season  it  with 
catsup,  allspice  and  mace.  Pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  brisket,  and 
send  the  remainder  to  the  table  in  a  separate  dish. 
Making  Tough  Steak  Tendek. 

Take  one  teaapoonful  of  salad  oil,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar 


278  HEATS. 

and  a  very  little  CaTenne  pepper.     Lay  the  steak  upoD  it  and  let  it 

remain  one  hour;  then  turn  it  over  and  let  it  lie  an  hour.    Then  fry 

or  broil  as  usual.    The  vinegar  softens  the  fibre  and  the  oil  keeps  it 

eoft.     Steak  may  stand  over  night  this  way  if  turned  abont  ten 

o'clock.     Pounding  steak  ia  a  great  mistake;  it  breaks  up  the  fibre, 

but  drives  out  the  juice  and  destroys  much  of  its  natrimeot. 

Beef,  Bbiseet  of,  to  Carte. 

The  accompanying  engraving   represents  the   appearance  of  a 

brisket  of  beef  ready  for  the  table.     There  is   no  difficulty  in 

carving  it.     The  only  thing  to 

observe  is  that  it  should  be  cut 

I  cleanly  along  the  bones,  in  the 
direction  indicated  by  the  dot- 
'  ted  line,  with  a  firm  hand,  in 
moderately  thick  slices.     Cut 
it  close  down  to  the  bones,  so  that  they  may  not  have  a  rough  and 
ji^lged  appearance  when  removed. 

Broh-kd  Steak. 
Never  put  salt  on  a  steak  until  after  it  ie  cooked.     After  trim- 
ming on  each  side  equally,  dress  to  taste  with  sweet  fresh  butter,' 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add,  if  preferred,  a  teaepoonful  of  lemon-jnice. 

Broiled  Bbefstxak. 

To  cook  a  good,  juicy  beefsteak,  never  pound  it,  but  slash  it 
several  times  across  each  way;  have  a  nice  bright  fire  and  broil  as 
qnickly  as  possible,  without  burning;  if  the  coals  blaze  from  the 
drippings,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt,  which  will  instantly  extinguish 
the  fiames.  Steak  should  be  turned  constantly  while  broiling,  and 
to  be  rare  should  not  cook  over  three  minutes;  butter  and  salt  after 
taking  up.     This  shouhl  be  served  very  hot. 

Rttmp  Steak  with  Otbteb  Sauce. 

Let  yoar  oysters  give  a  turn  or  two  with  plenty  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  then  add  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  flour,  and  the  juice  of 


MEATS.  279 

half  a  lemon,  with  enough  water  to  make  up  the  quantity  of  sauoe 
you  want,  stir  till  the  oysters  are  done,  and  serve  with  the  steak 
broiled  in  the  usual  way. 

To  Fry  Steak,  ob  Cook  in  Frying  Pan. 

If  you  have  not  a  broiler,  steak  may  be  cooked  nearly  as  well  by 
heating  the  frying  pan  very  hot  and  just  greasing  it  with  a  little 
butter,  or  a  little  of  the  chopped  suet,  and  lay  in  the  steak  and  keep 
turning  until  sufficiently  cooked;  then  transfer  to  a  hot  platter  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  with  butter  and  serve. 

German  Way  op  Frying  Beefsteak. 

Pound  the  cut  steak  a  little,  salt  it  and  fry  quickly  with  hot  lard  on 
both  sides;  pour  off  the  lard  and  place  the  steak  on  the  dish;  put 
into  the  pan  some  fresh  butter  and  fry  with  it  some  finely  cut 
onions  and  pour  this  over  the  steak. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  with  Onions. 

Melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  with  onions  sliced  very  thin;  then  lay  the  steak  over  them. 
When  the  onions  are  fried  until  they  are  tender,  put  the  beef  on 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  cover  it  with  the  onions;  add. butter  or 
lard  as  you  need  it.  Liver  cooked  in  this  way  is  nice  also.  When 
it  is  done,  lay  it  on  a  platter  and  heap  the  onions  on  the  meat.  A 
^  very  little  gravy  made  in  the  pan  in  which  you  have  cooked  the 
meat  and  onions  is  an  addition,  but  make  only  a  little  and  turn  over 
the  meat,  seasoning  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 

• 

Bekphtmak  Pie. 
Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  stew  with  the  bone 
(cracked)  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat  until  it  is  half 
done.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  a  good  paste. .  Put  in  a  layer 
of  the  beef,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  chopped  onion; 
then  one  of  sliced  boiled  potatoes,  with  a  little  butter  scattered 
upon  them,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.     Pour  over  all  the 


"0  MEATS. 

gravy  in  which  the  meat  is  stewed,  having  first  thrown  away 
the  bone  and  thickened  with  flour.  Cover  with  a  crust  thicker  thaa 
the  lower,  leaving  a  slit  in  the  middle. 

Ribs  &f  Bbef,  to  Cabve. 
The  rib  should  be  cut  in  thin  and  even  slices  from  the  thick  end 
towards  the  thin.  This  can 
be  more  readily  and  cleanly 
done,  if  the  carving-knife  is 
first  run  along  between  the 
meat  and  the  end  and  rib 
bones. 

To  RoASf  RtBB  OP  Beef. 

The  best  piece  to  roast  is 

|the  fore-rib,  and  it  should  bo 

hung  for  two  or  three  days 

before  it  is  cooked.     The  ends  of  the  ribs  should  be  sawn  off,  the 

outside  fat  fastened  with  skewers,  and  the  strong  sinew  and  chime 

bones  removed.    The  joint  should  first  be  placed  near  the  fire,  and 

after  a  short  time  it  should  be  drawn  back  and  roasted  steadily. 

Baste  freely  with  clarified  drippings  at  first,  as  there  will  not  be 

sufficient  gravy  when  first  put  down;  keep  basting  at  intervals  of 

ten  minutes  until  done.     Care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow  it  to 

bum,  as  it  is  easily  spoiled.     Serve  with  horse-radish  sasce. 

To  Roast  Sibloih  op  Beep. 

Take  out  the  suet  and  lay  it  thickly  over  the  fillet.     Tie  the  fiap 

under  the  fillet  ard  make  all  firm  before  it  is  put  into  the  oven. 

Should  ihe  oven  be  very  hot  place  a  paper  over  the  meat  while  yet 

raw,  in  which  case  it  will  need  very  little  basting;  or  turn  the  rib 

side  up  toward  the  fire  for  the  first  twenty  minutes.     The  time  it 

will  take  in  cooking  depends  entirely  upon  the  thickness  of  the 

joint  and  the  length  of  time  it  has  been  killed.     Skim  the  fat  from 

the  gravy  and  add  a  tablcspoonful  of  prepared  brown  flour  and  a 

glass  of  sherry  to  the  remainder. 


SlBLOIH  OF   BeBF,   to   CaBTS, 

A  sirloin  ahonld  be  cut  with  one  good,  firm  stroke  from  end  to 
«nd  of  the  joint,  at  the  upper  portion,  making  the  cut  very  clean 
from  A,  B  to  C.     Then  diseng^e  it  from  the  bone  by  a  horizontal 
cut  exactly  to  the  bone,  B  to  D,  using  the  tip  of  the  knife.     Bad 
carving  bears  the  hand  away  to  the  rind  of  the  beef,  eventually, 
after  many   cuts,   peeling    it 
back  to  the  other  side,  leav- 
ing a  portion  of  the  best  of 
the    meat    adhering    to    the' 
bone.     Every  slice  should  be 
clean  and  even,  and  the  sirloin 
should  cut  fairly  to  the  very 
end.     Many   persons  cut  the 

under  side  whilst  hot,  not  reckoning  it  so  good  cold;  but  this  ia  a 
matter  of  taste,  and  so  is  the  mode  of  carving  it.  The  best  way  is 
first  of  all  to  remove  the  fat,  E,  which  chops  up  well  to  make  pud- 
dings, if  not  eaten  at  table.  Then  the  under  part  can  be  cut  as 
already  described,  from  end  to  end,  F  to  G,  or  downwards  as  shown 
by  the  marks  at  H. 

Beef  Balls. 

Mince  very  fine  a  piece  of  tender  beef,  fat  and  lean;  mince  an 
'Onion,  with  some  boiled  parsley;  add  grated  bread  crumbs,  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel;  mix  all 
together  and  moisten  it  with  an  egg  beaten;  roll  it  into  balls,  flonr 
and  fry  them  in  boiling  fresh  dripping.  Serve  them  with  fried 
bread  crumbs. 

FiLLsr  OF  Bbkf. 

This  is  to  be  larded  and  dressed  with  a  brown  mnshroom  sance. 
Trim  the  fat  off  a  tenderloin  of  beef,  and  if  yon  are  going  to  dress 
it  for  dinner  trim  off  the  comen  somewhat  It  wants  to  be  the 
shape  of  a  fillet  whole.  A  whole  fillet  is  usually  too  large  for  a 
family  dinner.     Trim  down  the  loin  so  it  is  smaller  at  each  end. 


282  MEATS. 

Save  the  pieces  of  meat  trimmed  off,  cut  up  in  bits  an  inch  square 
and  make  a  stew  with  a  few  mushrooms  or  potatoes.  Never  by 
any  means  throw  them  away.  After  the  fillet  is  trimmed  lard  it  by 
inserting  little  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  over  the  upper  surface  with  a 
larding  needle.  After  larding  lay  on  a  baking-pan  with  thin  slices 
of  salt  pork  under  it,  and  put  buttered  paper  over  it  to  prevent 
burning  the  pork.  Bake  or  roast  it.  It  is  usually  served  rare;  then 
it  should  roast  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound.  If  it  is  to  be  well  done 
it  should  roast  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound.  Season  when 
brown,  not  before,  with  pepper  and  salt. 

A  Good  and  Cheap  Way  to  Cook  Beef. 

A  cheap  dish  can  be  made  of  a  brisket  or  flank  of  beef.  Cut  a 
slice  eight  inches  long  and  an-  inch  thick,  season  highly,  spread  a 
stuffing  of  soaked  bread  highly  seasoned  over  it,  tie  it  up  and  lay 
in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  cook  slowly  a  long  time.  This 
makes  a  very  nice  dish  and  should  be  served  with  red  cabbage. 
Cut  up  the  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw.  Put  in  a  saucepan  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  half  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  and  half  a  dozen  cloves;  then  put  in  the  cab- 
bage, cover  tight  and  set  on  the  back  of  the*  stove  and  let  it  steam 
an  hour,  when  it  will  be  tender.  The  beef  may  also  be 
served  with  red  beets,  boiled  till  tender  without  breaking, 
peeled  and  laid  around  the  dish  of  meat.  A  nice  way  to 
bake  beef  is  to  put  in  the  pan  under  it  a  bed  of  vegetables  and 
scraps  of  pork,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  carrot,  turnip,  sprigs  of  parsley, 
a  half  dozen  cloves  and  a  half  dozen  pepper  corns;  add  a  bay-leaf^ 
if  you  wish,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion.  You  will  find  that  all 
these  will  give  a  nice  flavor  not  only  to  the  meat  but  also  to  the 
gravy  made  from  the  drippings. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Take  a  round  of  beef,  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle,  also  all 
the  gristle  and  tough  parts  about  the  edges.  Have  ready  half  a 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips  as  thick  and  long  as  your 


MEATS.  28a 

finger.     Prepare  a  nice  dreeing  the  same  as  for  stuffing  a  turkey. 

With  a  thin  sharp  knife  make  perpendicular  incisions  in  the  meat 

about  half  an  inch  apart,  thrust  into  them  the  pork,  and  work  in 

with  them  some  of  the  dressing.     Proceed  thus  until  the  meat  is 

thoroughly  plugged.     Put  it  into  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water 

at  the  bottom;   cover  tightly  and  bake  slowly  four  hours;  then 

uncover,  and  spread  the  rest  of  the  dressing  over  the  top,  and  bake 

until  a  nice  brown.     After  taking  up,  thicken  the  gravy  and  pour 

over  the  beef.     It  should  be  sliced  horizontally.     Is  good  either  hot 

or  cold. 

Pounded  Beep. 

Boil  a  shin  of  twelve  pounds  of  meat  until  it  falls  readily  from 

the  bone;  pick  it  to  pieces;  mash  gristle  and  all  very  fine;  pick  out 

all  the  hard  bits.     Set  the  liquor  away;  when  cool,  take  off  all  the 

fat;  boil  the  liquor  down  to  a  pint  and  a  half.     Then  return  the 

meat  to  it  while  hot;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  any  spice  you  choose. 

Let  it  boil  a  few  times,  stirring  all  the  while.     Put  into  a  mold 

3r  deep  dish  to  cool.     Use  cold  and  cut  in  thin  slices  for  tea,  or 

warm  it  for  breakfast. 

Beef  Coquettes. 

Use  cold  roast  beef;  fchop  it  fine;  season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
add  one-third  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  a 
little  milk.  Have  your  hands  floured;  rub  the  meat  into  balls,  dip 
it  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  fine  pulverized  cracker,  and  fry  in  but« 
ter;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Deviled  Beef. 

Take  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  lay  them  on  hot  coals,  and  broil^ 

season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  while  hot,  with  a  small  lump 

of  butter  on  each  piece. 

Beef  Sausages. 

To  three  pounds  of  beef,  very  lean,  put  one  and.  one-half  pounds 
of  suet,  and  chop  very  fine;  season  with  sage  in  powder,  allspice,. 
pepper  and  salt;  have  skins  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  force  the  meat 
into  them. 


284  MEATS. 

Bebf  au  Gbateet. 

Take  cold  beef,  either  boiled  or  roasted,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slicefli 
Grease  a  tin  pan  with  butter,  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  put  in  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  and  lay  on  the  slices  of  beef.  Put  salt,  pepper, 
and  parsley  on  top,  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  drop  on  lemon- juice, 
and  a  little  broth,  just  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  place  it 
in  the  oven* 

Beef  Hsabt. 

Wash  it  carefully  and  stuff  it  nicely  with  dressing  as  for  turkey; 
roast  it  about  one  and  a  half  hours,  and  serve  with  the  gravy, 
which  should  be  thickened  with  some  of  the  stuffing.  It  is  very 
nice  hashed. 

Dbibd  Beef  m  Cesam. 

Shave  your  beef  very  fine;  pour  over  it  boiling  water;  let  it 
stand  for  a  few  minutes;  pour  this  off  and  pour  on  good  rich  cream; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil.  If  you  have  not  cream,  use  milk  and  butter, 
and  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour;  season  with  pepper,  and  serve 
on  toast  or  not,  as  you  like. 

Beef  Omelette. 

Three  pounds  of  beefsteak,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  suet, 
chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sage,  three  eggs,  six  Boston 
crackers,  rolled;  make  into  roll  and  bake. 

Broiled  Beef  Tongue. 

Put  a  fresh  tongue  on  the  fire  with  just  cold  water  enough  to 
<5over  it,  and  with  it  a  carrot,  an  onion,  a  bay-leaf,  a  couple  of  slices 
of  lemon,  some  black  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  garlic.  Let  it  simmer 
gently  for  about  two  hours  till  quite  tender.  Skin  and  trim  it. 
Either  serve  it  whole  or  cut  it  in  slices,  and  arrange  in  a  ring  with 
the  following  thick  sauce  in  the  center:  Strain  the  liquor  in  which 
the  tongue  was  cooked  (this  should  be  reduced  by  simmering  to  a 
mere  gravy) ;  brown  a  large  tablespoonf ul  of  flour  in  a  good  sized 
piece  of  butter;  braize  two  or  three  cloves  of  garlic,  and  let  them 


MEATS.  285^ 

steam  a  little  while  in  the  browning;  then  add  the  strained  gravy 
by  degrees,  stirring  it  quite  smooth.  Add  a  lUtle  lemon- juice  or 
vinegar;  and  whether  it  be  served  whole  or  sliced,  dish  the  sauce 
with  the  tongue.  If  garlic  is  objected  to,  make  a  sauce  of  grated 
horse-radish,  a  carrot  bruised  fine,  capers  and  a  little  wine.  Gar- 
nish with  lemon  slices  and  parsley. 

To  Boil  Beef. 

Put  fresh  beef  into  boiling  water  (unless  you  wish  to  make  soup, 
then  it  should  be  put  into  cold  water)  and  bring  quickly  to  a  boil, 
then  set  on  back  part  of  the  stove  and  simmer  gently  till  done. 
Corned  beef,  if  very  salt,  should  be  soaked  over  night,  then  put 
into  lukewarm,  not  boiling,  water.  Simmer  from  the  time  of  boil- 
ing till  it  is  served  up.  Skim  the  pot  thoroughly  and  turn  the 
meat  twice  during  the  simmering.  The  meat  will  be  much  better 
if  allowed  to  cool  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  is  cooked. 

Tongue  Boasted. 

Parboil  a  tongue  that  has  been  salted  about  ten  days;  roast^ 
baste  with  red  wine,  and  cover  it  at  last  with  butter.  Serve  with 
a  rich  gravy  and  sweet  sauce. 

Tripe. 

This  may  be  served  in  a  tureen,  stewed  tender  with  milk  and 
onions,  or  fried  in  bits  dipped  in  butter.  In  both  the  above  ways 
serve  melted  butter  for  sauce.  Or  cut  the  thin  parts  in  oblong  bits 
and  stew  in  gravy;  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  a  very  little  flour, 
and  add  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Or  boil  it  tender  in  milk, 
and  serve  in  milk-white  sauce. 

Tripe  a  la  Lyonnaisb  with  Tomatoes. 

This  economical  dish,  which  is  in  reach  of  every  family,  is  also 
very  fine.  Take  two  pounds  of  dressed  and  boiled  tripe,  cut  into 
small  strips  two  inches  long  and  put  into  a  saucepan.  Parboil  and 
drain  off  the  first  water;  chop  a  small  onion  fine,  and  let  all  stew 
twenty  minutes;  add  half  a  cup  of  thickening  and  then  stir  in  half 


286  MEATS. 

a  can  of  tomatoes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.     This  dish  has 
become  very  popolai'  in  all  the  hotels  throughout  the  country. 

Bullock's  Heabt,  Roasted. 

Wash  the  heart  in  several  waters,  clean  the  blood  carefully  from 
the  pipes,  and  put  it  to  soak  in  vinegar  and  water  for  two  hours  or 
more.  Drain  it  and  fill  it  either  with  ham  forcemeat  or  sage  and 
onion  stuffing.  Fasten  it  securely,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  put  into  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Take  off 
the  cloth  and  roast  the  heart  while  hot,  basting  it  plentifully  with 
good  dripping  for  two  hours  longer.  Serve  with  good  brown 
gravy  and  currant  jelly.  The  stewing  may  be  opiitted  and  the 
heart  simply  roasted  for  three  or  four  hours,  but  the  flesh  will  not 
then  be  so  tender. 

Calf's  Heart,  Roasted. 

Wash  the  heart  very  clean,  soak  it  in  vinegar  and  water,  fill  it 
with  a  forcemeat  made  of  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  chopped  parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  finely-minced  lemon  rind,  and  a  little  salt  and  Cayenne.  Fasten 
the  heart  securely  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Serve  it  with  good 
melted  butter,  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  or  vin- 
egar. A  cairs  heart  is  improved  by  partially  boiling  before  it  is 
roasted. 

Calf's  Heart,  Fried. 

Wash  and  soak  the  heart,  cut  it  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick  and  fry  these  in  a  little  hot  dripping  or^butter.  About 
five  minutes  before  they  are  done,  put  a  slice  of  bacon  into  the  pan 
for  each  slice  of  heart  and  when  they  are  sufficiently  cooked,  serve 
on  a  hot  dish  and  cover  each  piece  of  heart  with  a  slice  of  bacon. 
Boil  two  or  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  thin  flour  and  water  in  the  pan 
in  which  the  meat  was  fried.  Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt;  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  red  currant  jelly  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 
The  slices  of  heart  will  fry  in  fifteen  minutes. 


MEATS.  287 

Sheep's  Hbabt,  Baked. 

Wash  two  or  three  sheeps'  hearts  in  lukewarm  water^  fill  them 
with  veal  forcemeat,  and  skewer  them  securely.  Fasten  a  rasher 
of  fat  bacon  around  each,  place  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  with  them 
a  little  good  stock,  and  an  onion  stuck  with  two  cloves.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  two  hours;  draw  off  the  gravy;  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  and  butter,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
tablespoonf  ttl  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup.  Put  the  hearts  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  them,  and  send  red  currant  jelly 
with  them  to  the  table. 

SWEBTBBBADS. 

Sweetbreads  should  be  chosen  as  fresh  as  possible,  as  they  very 
quickly  spoil.  There  are  two  sorts — heart  sweetbreads  and  throat 
sweetbreads.  The  heart  sweetbreads  are  the  best.  In  whatever 
way  sweetbreads  are  dressed,  they  should  first  be  soaked  in  luke- 
warm water  for  a  couple  of  hours.  They  should  then  be  put  into 
boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  according 
to  size,  and  then  taken  up  and  laid  in  cold  water.  Sweetbreads  are 
quite  as  frequently  employed  as  ingredients  in  sundry  ma^e  dishes 
as  served  alone,  and  as  they  do  not  possess  a  very  decided  natural 
flavor,  they  need  to  be  accompanied  by  a  highly  seasoned  sauce,  or 
they  will  taste  rather  insipid.  They  are  in  full  season  f rem  May 
to  August. 

SWBBTBBEADS   FsiED. 

Prepare  them  as  usual.  Cut  them  in  slices,  egg  and  bread  crumb 
them,  dip  them  in  clarified  butter,  bread  them  again,  and  fry  in 
plenty  of  hot  fat  till  they  are  brightly  browned  on  both  sides. 
Drain  them,  and  then  dish  on  toast.     Serve  with  cucumber  sauce. 

Sweetbreads  Baked. 

After  preparing  the  sweetbreads  as  above,  brush  them  over  in 
every  part  with  beaten  egg,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle 
•clarified  butter  over  them,  and  bread-crumb  them  again.     Put  them 


288  MEATS. 

in  a  baking-tin  with  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  well- 
heated  oven;  baste  them  till  they  are  done  enough  and  brightly- 
browned.  Take  as  many  slices  of  hot  toast  as  there  are  sweetbreads, 
put  them  in  a  dish,  lay  the  sweetbreads  upon  them,  pour  brown 
gravy  round,  but  not  over  them,  and  serve  immediately. 

Sweetbreads  Broiled. 

Take  moderatensized  sweetbreads  and  prepare  them  in  the  usual 
way.  Stew  them  in  good  stock  till  they  are  done  enough.  Then 
drain  them  and  press  them  between  two  dishes  till  they  are  cold. 
Split  them  in  halves  and  trim  them  neatly;  brush  them  over  with 
butter,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  but  very  gentle  fire.  Have  a 
plate  with  clarified  butter  on  it  near  the  gridiron  and  keep  dipping 
the  sweetbreads  in  it,  turning  them  frequently.  When  they  are 
brightly  browned  all  over  they  are  done  enough.  Dish  the  slices 
in  a  circle,  and  send  brown  sauce,  flavored  with  lemon-juice,  to 
table  in  a  tureen. 

Sweetbreads  and  Cauliflowers. 

Take  four  large  sweetbreads  and  two  cauliflowers.  Split  open 
the  sweetbreads  and  remove  the  gristle.  Soak  them  awhile  in  lukc 
warm  water;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  set 
them  to  boil  ten  minutes.  Afterwards  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  to  make  them  firm.  The  parboiling  is  Jto  whiten  them. 
Wash,  drain  and  quarter  the  cauliflowers.  Put  them  in  a  broad 
stewpan  with  the  sweetbreads  on  them;  season  with  a  little  Cayenne 
and  a  little  nutmeg  and  add  water  to  cover  them.  Put  on  the  lid 
of  the  pan  and  stew  one  hour.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  and  roll  it  in  two  tablespoonfnls  of  flour;  add  this  with  a 
cup  of  milk  to  the  stew>  and  give  it  one  boil  up  and  no  more.  Serve 
hot,  in  a  deep  dish.    This  stew  will  be  found  delicious. 

Tomato  Sweetbreads. 

Cut  up  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  ripe  tomatoes;  set  them  over 
the  fire,  and  let  them  stew  in  nothing  but  their  own  juice  till  they' 


MEATS.  289 

go  \o  pieces — ^then  strain  them  through  a  sieve;  have  ready  four  or 
fiv0  sweetbreads  that  have  been  trimmed  nicely  and  soaked  in  warm 
water.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  the  tomato  juice,  and  a  little 
salt  and  Cayenne;  add  two  or  three  tablespoonf uls  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stew  the  sweetbreads  till 
done.  A  few  minutes  before  you  take  them  up,  stir  in  two  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs.  Serve  the  sweetbreads  in  a  deep  dish,  with  the 
tomato  poured  over  them. 

Kidneys,  Bboilbd  ob  Roasted. 

Split  the  kidneys  in  two  without  separating  the  halves;  peel  oft 

the  thin  outer  skin.     Season  them  with  salt  and  pepper;  broil  them, 

laying  the  flat  sides  first  on  the  gridiron,  to  keep  the  gravy  in;  or, 

fry  them  the  same.     Or  place  them  with  the  flat  side  upwards  in  a 

baking  dish  and  put  them  in  the  oven.     When  done,  serve  in  the 

same  dish  in  which  they  were  baked.     Immediately  before  serving, 

put  on  each  half -kidney  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  finely-chopped 

parsley* 

Stewed  Kidnbys. 

Split  ^he  kidneys  and  peel  off  the  outer  skin  as  before;  slice  them 

thin  on  a  plate;  dust  them  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt;  brown  some 

flour  in  butter  in  a  stewpan;  dilute  with  a  little  water;  mix  smooth 

and  in  it  cook  the  sliced  kidneys.     Let  them  simmer,  but  not  boil. 

They  will  cook  in  a  very  short  time.      Butter  some  slices  of  toast 

and  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  stewed  kidneys,  gravy 

and  alL 

Fbibd  LrvEB. 

Cut  one  pound  of  liver  into  slices  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness, 
and  dredge  some  flour  over  them.  Take  an  equal  number  of  slices 
of  bacon;  fry  the  bacon  first,  and  when  it  is  done  enough  remove 
from  the  fat  and  place  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Fry  the  slices  of  liver 
in  the  same  fat,  and  when  lightly  browned  on  both  sides,  dish  bacon 
and  liver  in  a  circle,  a  slice  of  each  alternately.  Pour  the  fat  from 
the  pan  and  dredge  a  little  flour  into  it;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 


290  MEATR 

broth,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  tableepoonful  of  mushroom 
oatsQp.  Stir  smoothly  together  until  the  aanoe  boila,  and  pour  into 
the  dish  with  the  liver,  (itarnigh  with  sliced  lemon.  If  liked,  a 
tableepoonfnl  of  finely-minced  gherkins  or  pickled  walnuts  may  be 
added  to  the  sauce. 

Fbibd  Litbb,  Ho,  2. 
Take  one  egg  to  one  pound  of  liver;  cut  the  liver  thin,  scald  with 
hot  water  and  wipe  dry;  beat  up  the  egg,  dip  the  slices  of  liver 
into  the  egg,  then  into  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  browm 

BOABT  QtTABTEB  OF  LaUB. 

Trim  the  joint  and  skewer  three  or  four  slices  of  bacon  securely 

to  the  outer  side,  brash  three  ounces  of  clarified  butter  over  the 

inner  part  and  strew  upon  it  a  thick  covering  of  fiuely-grated  bread 

crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper, 

salt  and  a  little  finely-minced 

parsley.     Put  in  the  oven,  and 

when  nearly  done  remove  the 

bacon  and  baste  the  meat  with 

the  beaten  yolk  of  egg  mixed 

f,  with  the  gravy,   throw    some 

more  bread  crumbs  over  it  and 

let  it  remiun  until  nicely  browned.     If  liked,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a 

lemon  over  it  and  serve  with  mint  sauce. 

,  Laub  Chops,  Fbikd. 

Cut  a  loin  or  neck  of  lamb  into  chops  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Dip  each  one  into  beaten  egg  and  after- 
wards into  bread  crumbs,  flavored  as  follows:  Mix  three  ounces  of 
finely-grated  bread  crumbs  with  a  saltapoonful  of  salt,  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley  and  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonfnl  of  finely-mixed  lemon  rind.  Fry  the  chops 
in  good  drippings  until  lightly  browned  on  both  sides.  Serve  on  a 
hot  dish  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  crisped  parsley. 


MEATS.  291 

Lamb  Chops,  Bboilbd. 

Cut  the  chops  about  half  an  inch  thick,  trim  them  neatly,  remov- 
ing the  superfluous  fat,  place  them  on  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  clear 
fire  and  brown  them  nicely  on  both  sides.  Season  them  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
Mashed  potatoes,  asparagus,  green  pease,  or  spinach,  are  usually 
served  with  lamb  chops. 

Stswbd  Lamb  with  Gbbbn  Pbasb. 

Take  two  pounds  of  lamb,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  and  cover  with 
cold  water;  after  removing  the  scum  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
then  let  the  meat  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half  or  nearly  two  hours; 
now  add  some  boiling  water  (to  make  gravy);  add  your  green 
pease  (half  a  peck  before  shelling) ;  let  these  cook  about  twenty 
minutes;  stir  up  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  half  a  cup  of  milk 
and  mix  with  the  stew.     Let  this  cook  two  minutes. 

Lamb  Cutlets. 

Trim  the  slices  free  from  fat,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with 
rasped  bread  or  crackers,  seasons  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  the 
cutlets  and  fry  in  butter  gently,  until  thoroughly  done. 

Boiled  Bbbast  of  Mutton. 

Take  out  the  bones,  gristle,  and  some  of  the  fat;  flatten  it  on  the 
kneading-board,  and  cover  the  surface  thinly  with  a  forcemeat 
made  of  bread  crumbs,  minced  savory  herbs,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  pepper,  salt  and  an  egg.  The  forcemeat  should  not  be 
spread  too  near  the  edge,  and  when  rolled,  the  breast  should  be 
tied  securely,  to  keep  the  forcemeat  in  its  place.  If  gently/ boiled, 
and  served  hot,  it  will  be  generally  liked.  Serve  with  good  caper 
sauce. 

Haunch  op  Mutton  a  la  Venison. 

MiT  two  ounces  of  bay  salt  with  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar; 
rub  it  well  into  the  mutton,  which  should  be  placed  in  a  deep  dish 


292  HEATS. 

for  four  days,  and  basted  three  or  four  times  a  day  with  the  liquor 
that  drains  from  it;  then  wipe  it  quite  dry,  and  rub  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  more  of  sugar,  mixed  with  a  little  common  salt,  and  hang  it 
up,  haunch  downwards;  wipe  it  daily  till  it  is  used.  In  winter  it 
should  be  kept  two  or  three  weeks  and  roasted  in  paste,  like  ven- 
ison. Serve  with  currant  jelly.  The  paste  (made  with  flour  and 
water)  should  be  removed  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 

Breast  of  Mutton  with  Peasb. 

Cut  about  two  pounds  of  the  breast  of  mutton  into  small  square 
pieces.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  about  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
brown  them  nicely,  then  cover  with  weak  broth  pr  water,  and  stew 
for  an  hour.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  stewpan,  and  clear  the 
gravy  from  fat.  Put  the  meat  into  a  clean  stewpan,  add  an  onion 
or  shallot  sliced  finely,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  pepper  and 
salt,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  all.  Stew  for  another  hour,  then 
put  in  a  quart  of  young  pease,  and  serve  in  about  twenty  minutes. 
Macaroni  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  pease. 

Mutton  Cueried. 

Put  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  chop  fine,  or  pound 
in  a  mortar  four  onions;  add  the  onions  to  the  butter  with  an  ounce 
of  curry  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
and  half  a  pint  of  cream;  stir  until  Smooth.  Fry  two  pounds  of 
mutton — cut  in  neat  pieces  without  bone — ^to  a  light  brown  color. 
Lay  the  meat  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  pour  the  curry  mixture 
over;  simmer  until  the  meat  is  done. 

Mutton  Chops. 

First  select  well-fed  mutton,  but  not  too  fat,  and  get  the  chops 
evenly  cut;  if  not,  beat  them  into  shape  with  the  chopper.  Not 
more  than  one-third  of  the  chop  should  be  fat.  Put  an  ounce  of 
butter  or  lard  into  the  frying-pan;  when  it  is  entirely  melted  seize 
the  chop  at  the  bone  end  with  a  fork,  and  dip  it  for  half  a  minute 
into  the  fat,  then*  turn  on  one  side,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 


I 


MEATS.  293 

and  if  liked,  finely-chopped  shallot  or  onion,  and  savory  herbs.  In 
three  minutes  tarn,  and  serve  the  other  side  the  same;  equalize  the 
cooking  by  frequent  turning,  but  give  the  chop  altogether  not  more 
than  ten  minutes.  A  piece  of  garlic,  if  -  the  flavor  be  approved, 
may  be  rubbed  across  the  dish  when  hot,  or  it  may  be  rubbed 
lightly  across  the  chop.     Serve  with  plain  or  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Mutton  Cutlets  a  la  Minute. 

The  mutton  for  these  cutlets  should  be  cut  from  the  middle  of 
the  leg,  and  sliced  thin;  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
the  meat  quickly  over  a  brisk  fire,  to  make  it  crisp,  turning  it  often. 
Let  the  cutlets  be  kept  warm  in  the  oven  while  the  gravy  is  pre- 
paring. Have  ready  some  mushrooms,  chopped  with  a  shallot,  a 
sprig  or  two  of  parsley  and  thyme,  minced  fine.  Stew  these  in  the 
butter  for  a  few  minutes,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  flour 
and  water,  strain  and  serve  round  the  cutlets. 

Mutton  Cutlets  and  Pubeb  of  Potatoes. 

Boil  or  steam  two  pounds  of  mealy  potatoes,  mash  them  smooth, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  two  or  three  ounces  of  butter,  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  broth,  pepper  and  salt;  make  them 
hot,  and  pile  them  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish.  The  cutlets  may  be 
bread-crumbed  and  fried,  or,  if  preferred,  broiled  and  served  round 
the  puree. 

Boiled  Leg  op  Mutton. 

Cut  off  the  shank  bone,  put  it  into  a  large  stewpan  or  kettle,  with 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  it.  When  restored  to  its  boil- 
ing state,  skim  the  surface  clean,  and  set  the  stewpan  back  and 
allow  the  contents  to  simmer  until  done.  Allow  for  a  leg  of  mut- 
ton of  nine  or  ten  pounds,  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  from 
the  time  it  boils.  Boil  very  young  turnips  for  a  garnish,  also  boil 
larger  turnips  to  mash.  Place  the  young  turnips,  which  should  be 
of  equal  size,  round  the  dish  with  the  mutton  and  send  the  mashed 
ones  to  the  table  separately.     Melted  butter,  with  capers  added. 


1 


should  accompany  the  dish.  The  liquor  from  the  boiling  ma;  be 
ooDTerted  into  good  soap  at  a  trifling  expense. 
Mutton  Kbbbobed. 
Take  a  loin  of  matton;  joint  veil;  take'  the  following  dressing 
and  put  between  each  joint:  Two  tablespoonfnls  chopped  parsley, 
a  little  thyme,  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  cnp  of  bread  cmmbs;  mix  well 
with  two  eggs;  roast  one  honr.  If  there  is  a  large  dap  to  the  loin, 
some  of  the  dressing  may  be  put  in  and  then  skewered  securely. 

Lbg  op  Mutton,  To  Cabte. 
The  leg  of  mutton  comes  to  the  table  as  shown  in  Fig.  1.  Take 
the  carving  fork,  as  usual,  in  your  left  hand,  and  plant  it  firmly  in 
the  joint,  as  shown  by  A,  in  Fig.  1,  placing  it  rather  over  to  the 
other  side  of  the  joint,  and  drawing  the  leg  over  toward  you  on  the 
dish  about  one-third,  which  brings  the  position  of  the  fork  from  A 
to  B.  Cut  straight  down  across  the  joint  at  the  line  marked  C,  not 
quite  to  the  bone.  Make  the  second  cut  a  little  on  the  slant,  as 
shown  in  D,  and  take  the  piece  out;  continue  cutting  from  each 
side  slantingly  as  the  line  marked  B,  either  from  the  thiok  or  the 

knuckle  end,  ac- 
cording to   the 
taste  of  the  per- 
sontobebelped. 
A    very     small 
piece  of  the  fat 
should  be  ^ven 
with  each  slice 
of  meat  to  those 
who  like  it.  The 
I  knuckle,  if  any 
one  asks  for  it, 
is  first  cut  off  in  a  lump,  as  shown  by  the  circular  line  at  F,  and  after- 
wards in  slices.     Mutton  should  be  cut  thick,  but  it  should  not  be 
cut  to  the  bone;  the  slice  in  the  centre  should  not  penetrate  so  far 


MEATS.  295 

as  the  circular  kernel  of  fat  f onnd  there,  and  called  the  "  pope's 
eye,"  which  is  generally  considered  best  to  leave  for  hashing. 

The  back  of  a  leg  of  mntton  is  not  generally  cnt  until  cold,  when 
it  is  best  sliced  lengthwise,  as  shown  in  Fig.  2;  the  meat  is  still  cut 
thick,  but  not  quite  so  thick  as  in  the  cuts  previously  described. 
Cold  mutton  should  be  served  with  mashed  potatoes  and  pickles, 
and  the  re- 
mains hashed, 
as  there  is 
much  left   on 

the  bone  that                             ^^               C 
does    not    cut  ^—^  

up  well  hot  or  ^^0^/9^0^^  ^-^^JM^^^^'^ 

cold.    There  is 

a  part    called  H 

the  "  crump  bone  "  in  a  leg  of  mutton,  which  may  be  removed  by  a 
circular  cut  from  H  to  J  in  Fig.  2;  it  is  usually  relished  cold.  Fig. 
2  shows  the  joint  when  turned  three  parts  over,  held  by  the  fork  as 
previously  described,  and  the  dotted  line  at  J  indicates  the  direc- 
tion of  the  first  cut. 

Roast  Leg  op  Mutton. 

€ret  a  leg  of  about  eight  pounds,  which  has  hung  at  least  a  week, 
weather  allowing.  During  hot  summer  weather  this  joint  gets 
quickly  tainted.  Rub  it  lightly  with  salt,  and  put  it  at  once  into 
a  hot  oven  for  the  first  few  minutes,  then  allow  the  oven  to  cool, 
and  roast  more  slowly  until  done.  Baste  continually  with  a  little 
good  dripping  until  that  from  the  joint  begins  to  flow.  When 
within  twenty  minutes  to  being  done,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and 
baste  with  butter  or  dripping;  and  when  the  froth  rises  serve  on  a 
hot  dish.     M2£ke  a  gravy  and  pour  round  the  meat,  not  over  it. 

Mutton  Cutlets  with  Provincalb  Sauce. 

Use  one-fourth  of  a  mediura-sized  onion,  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
put  over  the  fire  and  gradually  add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  cup  of 


V 


296  MEATS. 

water,  one-half  cup  thyme,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  stir 
constantly;  add  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  and  cook  until  about  as 
thick  as  cream.  This  sauce  can  be  used  on  cold  meats,  or  in  cook- 
ing raw  meat.  When  used  in  cooking  cutlets  or  other  meats,  the 
meats  should  be  very  slightly  cooked  on  both  sides  in  a  hot  skillet, 
then  have  a  pot  of  fat  large  enough  for  the  meat  to  swim  in.  Dip 
the  cutlets  in  the  sauce  and  put  them  in  the  boiling  fat.  Take 
them  out  and  roll  in  cracker  dust  and  bread  crumbs;  put-  them 
back,  and  do  this  occasionally  until  the  meat  floats  on  top  of  the 
fat.     They  are  then  done. 

Pork — To  Keep  Fbesh  ik  Sitmmeb. 

Take  pork,  when  killed  in  the  early  part  of  the  winter,  and  let  it 
lie  in  pickle  about  a  week  or  ten  days,  or  until  just  sufficiently 
salted  to  be  palatable;  then  slice  it  up  and  fry  it  about  half  or  two- 
thirds  as  much  as  you  would  for  present  eating;  now  lay  it  away 
in  its  own  grease,  in  jars  properly  covered,  in  a  cool  place,  as  you 
would  lard.     Re-fry  when  ready  to  use. 

PoEK,  TO  Cook. 

Large  pork,  such  as  portions  of  the  shoulder,  loin,  or  spare-rib, 
of  large  bacon  hogs,  may  be  cooked  as  follows:  Rub  the  joint, 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  into  a  large  saucepan  with  a  closely- 
fitting  lid.  When  neai'ly  done,  add  two  or  three  onions  and  carrots, 
with  half  a  dozen  sticks  of  celery,  four  sage  leaves,  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  a  small  sprig  of  marjoram  and  thyme,  and  as  much  stock 
or  water  as  will  cover  the  whole.  Let  the  liquors  boil  up;  skim 
carefully;  then  set  back  and  simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  hours, 
according  to  size  of  joint.  When  the  pork  is  done  enough,  lift  it 
out,  put  the  vegetables  round  it,  strain  and  thicken  a  portion  of  the 
gravy,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  pork.  When  the  pork  is 
removed  from  the  table,  trim  it  neatly  and  place  on  a  clean  dish  to 
be  eaten  cold,  or  thicken  the  rest  of  the  gravy  and  pour  over  the 
meat  to  be  warmed  over. 


MEATS.  297 

PoBK,  Bblly  Rollbd  and  Boilbd. 

Salt  a  belly  of  pork — ^young  meat  is  the  best — ^by  mixing  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  powdered  saltpetre  with  two  tablespoonf uls  of  common 
salt,  sprinkle  the  mixture  over  the  pork,  and  let  it  lie  for  three  days. 
When  ready  to  dress  the  meat,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  dry  it 
with  a  cloth.  Lay  it,  skin  downwards,  on  the  table,  remove  the 
bones,  and  cover  the  inside  with  pickled  gherkins  cut  into  thin 
slices.  Sprinkle  over  these  a  little  powdered  mace  and  pepper. 
Roll  the  meat  tightly  and  bind  securely  with  tape.  Put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  onions  stuck  with  six  cloves,  three  bay-leaves, 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Bring  the  liquid  slowly 
to  a  boil,  skim  carefully,  draw  it  to  the  back  of  stove,  and  simmer 
gently  till  the  meat  is  done  enough.  Put  it  between  two  dishes, 
lay  a  weight  upon  it,  and  leave  it  until  quite  cold.  The  bandages 
should  not  be  removed  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  be  served.  Time 
to  simmer,  half  an  hour  per  pound. 

Pork  Brawn. 

Take  a  small  pig's  head  with  the  tongue,  and  two  pig's  feet.  Clean 
and  wash  them,  sprinkle  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt  over  them,  and  let 
them  drain  until  the  following  day;  dry  them  with  a  soft  cloth  and 
rub  into  them  a  powder  made  of  six  ounces  of  common  salt,  six 
ounces  of  moist  sugar,  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and 
three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper.  Dry  the  powder  well, 
and  rub  it  into  every  part  of  the  head,  tongue,  ears,  and  feet;  turn 
them  over  and  rub  them  again  every  day  for  ten  days.  Wash  the 
pickle  from  them,  cut  off  the  ears,  and  boil  the  feet  and  ears  an 
hour  and  a  half;  then  put  in  the  head  and  tongue,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  boil  until  the  meat  will  leave  the  bones.  Take  them  up, 
drain,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  first  remove  all  bones,  and 
skin  the  tongue.  Season  the  mince  with  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
pepper,  t^ree  saltspoonfuls  of  powdered  mace,  one  saltspoonf ul 
each  of  powdered  nutmeg  and  Cayenne.  Stir  all  well  together, 
press  the  meat  while  warm  into  a  brawn  tin,  and  lay  a  heavy  weight 


298  MEATS. 

on  the  lid.  Put  it  in  a  oool  place  nntil  the  following  day;  dip  the- 
mold  in  boiling  water,  torn  the  brawn  oat,  and  serve  with  vinegar 
and  mustard. 

Pork  Chops,  Broiled. 

Cut  the  chops  rather  less  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  a  clear 
fire;  make  the  gridiron  hot  before  putting  the  chops  on  it;  pepper 
the  chops,  and  when  nearly  done  sprinkle  salt,  and  a  little  powdered 
sage  over  them.  Let  them  be  done  through,  turn  frequently,  and 
serve  hot.    Tomato  sauce  eats  well  with  pork  chops. 

Pork  Chops,  Fried. 

Cut  pork  chops  a  half  an  inch  in  thickness;  trim  them  neatly;, 
sprinkle  them  on  both  sides  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  a 
little  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  put  the  chops  in  it  and  fry  them  until 
they  are  thoroughly  done.  K  liked,  a  little  powdered  sage  may  be 
sprinkled  over  them  bef  ore:serving.  Send  apple  sauce  to  table  with 
them. 

Pork  Cutlets,  Broiled.  , 

Pork  cutlets  are  best  taken  from  the  neck  or  fore  loin  of  small 
dairy-fed  pork,  not  very  fat.  Neatly  trim  them.  Score  the  skin  at 
regular  intervals  and  flatten  the  cutlets  with  a  cutlet-bat.  Brush 
them  over  with  oil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  them  on 
a  hot  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire.  Turn  them  occasionally,  that  they 
may  be  equally  browned  on  both  sides,  and  let  them  be  thoroughly 
cooked.  Put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  send  tomato,  piquant  or  any 
appropriate  sauce  to  table  with  them. 

Leg  of  Pork,  Good  as  Goose. 

Parboil  a  leg  of  pork  and  take  off  the  skin.  Make  a  stuffing  as 
follows:  Mince  two  ounces  of  onion  very  finely;  mix  with  it  half  a 
chopped  apple,  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  dozen*  chopped 
sage  leaves,  an  ounce  or  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Bind 
the  mixture  together  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Make  a  slit  in  the 
knuckle,  put  the  stuffing  into  it,  and  fasten  securely.  Put  the  pork 
into  the  oven  and  baste  liberally.     Half  an  hour  before  it  is  taken 


•  I 


MEATS.  5>99 

up,  sprinkle  over  it  a  savory  powder  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
bread  orambs  mixed  with  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  powdered  sage,  and 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  baste  the  meat  after  the  powder 
is  put  upon  it.     Serve  with  good  brown  gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

POEK  CXTTLETS,  PeIED. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  naucepan,  and  stir  into  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonf  ul  each  of  chopped  sage, 
and  minced  shallot.  Move  these  ingredients  about  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Dip  the  cutlets  first  into  this  mixture,  then  into  finely-grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  let  them  stand  ten  minutes.  Melt  a  little  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  fry  the  cutlets  in  it,  and  when  thoroughly  done> 
serve  with  a  good  brown  sauce. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Pobk  with  Pease  Pudding. 

Take  a  leg  of  pork  and  rub  it  over  with  salt;  put  it  into  a  vessel 
and  cover  with  salt  and  let  it  stand  for  ten  days.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  boil  it  in  soft  water,  and  serve  with  cabbage  all  round  it, 
and  a  pease  pudding  made  as  follows:  Take  a  quart  of  dry  pease, 
wash  them,  tie  them  in  a  clean  bag,  and  boil  with  the  pork.  When 
the  pease  are  done,  strain  them  through  a  colander,  put  in  a  large 
lump  of  butter,  some  salt,  and  two  yolks  of  eggs,  apd  put  back  into 
the  bag,  and  boil  again  for  half  an  hour.  The  pease  must  be  put  into 
cold  soft  water  for  two  hours  before  being  boiled,  otherwise  they 
will  never  boil  tender. 

PoBK  Pies. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  chicken  pies.  Cut  the  meat  into  pieces  the 
size  of  a  small  nut,  and  keep  the  lean  and  fat  separate.  Season  the 
whole  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  sage. 
Pack  the  fat  and  lean  closely  into  the  pie  in  alternate  layers  until  it 
is  filled;  put  on  the  top  crust  and  ornament  according  to  taste;  brush 
over  with  well-beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  as  the  meat  is 
solid  and  requires  to  be  cooked  through,  the  outside  pieces  will  be 
hard  unless  cut  very  small  and  pressed  closely  together.     Take  the 


800  MEATS. 

bones  and  trimmings  of  the  pork  and  stew  them  to  make  gravy; 
boil  it  until  it  will  jelly  when  cold,  strain,  thicken  and  flavor,  and 
when  the  pie  is  done  raise  the  top  crust  and  fill  it  with  the  gravy, 
and  send  the  balance  of  the  gravy  to  table  in  a  tureen. 

Roast  Lonr  or  Poek. 

Score  the  skin  of  a  fresh  loin  of  pork  at  equal  distances  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  apart.  Brush  it  over  with  salad  oil,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven.  Baste  liberally  with 
butter  or  dripping  at  first,  and  when  done  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve  with  brown  gravy  and  apple  sauce.  If  liked,  a  little  sage  and 
onion  stuffing  may  be  served  on  a  separate  dish. 

PoBK  Caks. 

Cut  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  from  a  cold  joint  of  roast  pork,  and 
mince  it  very  finely;  mix  with  it  a  couple  of  large  potatoes  freshly 
boiled  and  mashed,  a  little  salt  and  pepper^  a  chopped  onion,  and  a 
little  powdered  sage.  Add  two  or  three  eggs,  a  little  milk,  suffi- 
■cient  to  make  a  very  thick  batter.  EVy  the  cake  like  an  omelet,  or 
bake  in  a  buttered  dish.     Serve  with  pickled  onions  or  gherkins. 

Pork  Sausages. 

Have  two-thirds  lean  and  one-third  fat  pork;  chop  very  fine. 
Season  with  nine  teaspoonfuls  pepper,  nine  of  salt,  three  of  pow- 
dered sage  to  every  pound  of  meat.  Warm  the  meat  so  that  you  can 
mix  it  well  with  your  hands,  do  up  a  part  in  small  patties,  with  a 
little  flour  mixed  with  them,  and  the  rest  pack  in  jars.  When  used, 
do  it  up  in  small  cakes,  flour  the  outside  and  fry  in  butter^,  or  alone. 
They  should  not  be  covered,  or  they  will  fall  to  pieces.  A  little 
cinnamon  to  a  part  of  them  will  be  a  pleasant  addition.     They 

*  - 

should  be  kept  where  it  is  cool,  but  not  damp.  They  are  very  nice 
for  breakfast. 

Pork  and  Beans. 

Take  two  pounds  side  pork,  not  too  fat  nor  too  lean,  and  two 
•quarts  of  marrowfat  beans;  put  the  beans  to  soak  the  ni^ht  bcforo 


MEATS.  301 

you  boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  milk-warm  water.  After  breakfast, 
scald  and  scrape  the  rind  of  the  pork,  and  put  on  to  boil  an  hour 
before  putting  in  the  beans;  as  soon  as  the  beans  boil  up,  pour  off 
the  water  and  put  on  one  gallon  of  fresh  water;  boil  until  quite 
tender,  adding  more  water  if  necessary;  great  care  must  be  taken 
that  they  do  not  scorch.  When  nearly  as  stiff  as  mashed  potatoes, 
put  into  a  baking-dish,  score  the  pork  and  put  in  the  center;  brown 
in  the  oven  one  hour.     If  preferred  use  corned  beef  instead  of  pork. 

Pbessed  Head. 

Boil  the  several  parts  of  the  entire  head  and  the  feet,  in  the  same 
way  as  for  souse.  All  must  be  boiled  so  perfectly  tender  that  the 
meat  will  separate  easily  from  the  bones.  After  neatly  separated, 
chop  the  meat  fine  while  warm,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
other  spices,  to  taste.  Put  it  in  a  strong  bag,  place  a  weight  on  it 
and  let  it  remain  till  cold.  Or  put  it  in  any  convenient  dish, 
placing  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  it  to  press  the  meat.  Cut  in 
slices,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  lard. 

Boiled  Pig's  Feet. 

Take  the  fore  feet,  cut  off  the  hocks,  clean  and  scrape  them  well; 
place  two  feet  together  and  roll  them  up  tightly  in  common  mus- 
lin; tie  or  sew  them  so  that  they  will  keep  in  perfect  shape,  cud 
boil  them  seven  hours  on  a  moderate  fire — ^they  will  then  be  very 
soft;  lift  them  out  carefully  and  let  them  cool  off;  then  remove  the 
muslin  and  you  will  find  them  like  jelly.  Serve  with  vinegar,  or 
split  them  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  and  fry  or 
broil  them.     Serve  with  a  little  tart  sauce. 

Pig's  Foot  Cheese. 

Boil  the  hocks  and  feet  of  equal  quantity  loose  in  a  pot  till  the 
meat  will  fall  freely  from  the  bones;  season  well  with  pepper  and 
salt;  put  into  a  pan  while  hot  and  press  it.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve 
with  vinegar  or  Worcestershire  sauce.  Both  of  the  above  are 
great  delicacies  if  properly  cooked. 


H<>2  MKATS. 

To  Roast  a  Sucking  Pig. 

If  you  can  get  it  when  first  killed  this  is  of  gr^at  advantage 
Let  it  be  scalded,  which  the  dealers  usually  do;  then  put  some  sage, 
a  large  piece  of  stalish  bread,  salt  and  pepper  in  the  inside  and  sew 
it  up.  Observe  to  skewer  the  legs  back,  or  tl^e  underpart  will  not 
crisp.  Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dry;  then  have  ready 
some  butter  in  a  dry  cloth  and  rub  the  pig  with  it  in  every  part. 
Dredge  as  much  flour  over  it  as  will  possibly  lie,  and  do  not  touch 
it  again  till  ready  to  serve;  then  scrape  off  the  flour  very  carefully 
with  a  blunt  knife,  rub  the  pig  well  with  a  buttered  cloth,  and  take 
off  the  head  while  at  the  fire;  take  out  the  brains  and  mix  them 
with  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  pig.  Then  take  it  up  and  cut 
it  down  the  back  and  breast,  lay  it  into  the  dish  and  chop  the  sage 
and  bread  quickly  as  fine  as  you  can,  and  mix  them  with  a  large 
quantity  of  melted  butter,  that  has  a  very  little  flour.  Put  the 
sauce  into  the  dish  after  the  pig  has  been  split  down  the  back  and 
garnished  with  the  ears  and  the  two  jaws;  take  off  the  upper  part 
of  the  head  down  to  the  snout.  In  Devonshire  it  is  served  whole, 
if  very  small,  the  head  only  being  cut  off  to  garnish  with  as  above. 
It  will  require  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  to  roast,  accord- 
ing to  size. 

To  Cure  Hams. 

Take  coarse  salt,  with  a  sprinkle  of  saltpetre,  pepper  and  sugar; 
powder  and  mix ;  rub  this  in  well  a  few  times;  smoke  and  wrap  closely 
in  paper  of  four  folds  or  more;  pack  in  dry  ashes  four  inches  thick 
around  each  ham.  They  will  keep  through  the  hottest  of  weather 
and  be  as  good  as  new. 

*  Ham  Pik. 

Make  a  crust  the  same  as  for  soda  biscuit,  line  your  dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  .potatoes,  sliced  thin,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter,  then 
a  layer  of  lean  ham;  add  considerable  water,  and  you  will  have  an 
excellent  pie. 


•   I 


MEATS.  303 

Boned  Ham;  Fink  Substitute  for  Turkey. 

Take  a  good  salted  but  unsmoked  ham,  remove  the  bone  so  as  to 
leave  the  meat  ks  solid  as  possible.  In  place  of  the  bone  put 
•dressing  made  same  as  for  turkey,  and  bake.     It  is  good  hot  or  cold. 

Baked  Ham. 

Make  a  thick  paste  of  flour  (not  boiled)  and  cover  the  ham  with 
it,  bone  and  all;  put  in  a  pan  on  a  spider  or  two  muffin  rings,  or 
anything  that  will  keep  it  an  inch  from  the  bottom,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  If  a  small  ham,  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound;  if  large, 
twenty  minutes.  The  oven  should  be  hot  when  put  in.  The  paste 
forms  a  hard  crust  around  the  ham  and  the  skin  comes  off  with  it. 
Try  this  and  you  will  never  cook  a  ham  any  other  way. 

Smoked  Meat  on  Toast. 

Take  a  cold  smoked  tongue  or  ham  that  has  been  well  boiled, 
and  grate  it  with  a  coarse  grater  or  mince  it  fine,  mix  it  with  cream 
and  beaten  yolk  of  eggy  and  let  it  simmer  over  the  fire.  Prepare 
«ome  nice  slices  of  toast,  butter  them  rather  slightly,  lay  them  in  a 
flat  dish  that  has  been  heated  over  the  fire,  and  cover  each  slice 
with  the  meat  mixture,  which  should  be  spread  on  hot.  Place  on  the 
table  in  a  covered  dish,  for  either  breakfast  or  supper. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Out  the  ham  into  thin  slices  and  broil,  and  spread  over  it  a  little 
butter.  Poach  the  eggs  in  salted  water  and  lay  neatly  upon  the 
ham. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  twenty-four  hours;  put  in.to  a  pot  with  cold  water  and  boil 
gently  for  five  or  six  hours;  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  remain  in 
the  water  until  cold.  Peel  off  the  skin  and  sprinkle  with  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Slice  very  thin  -for  the 
table. 


304  MEAT8. 

Hah  Balu. 
Take  one-half  cup  of  bread  orambe  and  mix  witb  two  eggs  well 
beaten;  chop  fine  some  bite  of  cold  boiled  ham  and  mix  with  tbem. 
Make  into  balk  and  fry. 

Ham  Gabioshing  and  Obnahbntivg. 
The  neoal  way  of  finishing  a  ham,  when  it  is  not  glazed,  is  to 
draw    off    the    skin    carefully, 
dredge  bread  raapings  all  over 
the  fat,  and  put  the  ham  in  the 
I  oven  to  become  brown  and  crisp. 

Fasten   a  frill   of  white  paper 
round  the    bone,   and    garnish 
with  parsley  or  cut  vegetables. 
To  Glaze  Haus. 
Kemove  the  rind  by  taking  hold  of  the  thiok  end  first.     Trim  it 
neatly,  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes;  and  press  a  cloth  over 
it  to  dry  it;  brush  it  over  with  a  paste  brush  dipped  in  glaze  (a 
strong  clear  gravy  boiled  down  as  thick  as  syrup).     To  melt  the 
glaze,   put  the  jar  which  contains  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  until  dissolved.     Brush  the  ham  with  two  or  three 
coats. 

COLLABKD   BbBABT  OF  VkAL. 

Bone  a  breast  of  veal;  lay  it  on  the  table  and  spread  on  it  a  thick 
layer  of  oyster  forcemeat  {See  oyster  forcemeat);  roll  the  veal  as 
tightly  as  possible,  and  bind  it  with  a  tape.  Put  it  into  boiling 
water;  let  it  boil  up  once;  skim  the  liquor  carefully;  set  the  sauce- 
pan  back  and  simmer  the  contents  gently  until  done;  put  the  bones 
into  a  separate  saucepan  with  a  moderate-sized  onion,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  let  them  simmer  till  the 
liquor  is  strong  and  pleasantly  flavored;  strain  it,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  and  butter,  and  stir  into  it  two  or  three  tables poonfuls 
of  thick  cream,  or,  if  milk  has  to  be  used,  beat  into  it  the  yolk  of 


MEATS  305 

an  egg,  Serye  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  sanoe  poured  over. ' 
This  dish  may  he  garnished  with  forcemeat  halls,  and  with  the 
sweethreads  cut  into  slices,  egged,  and  hread-crumhed  and  fried; 
or  a  little  parsley  and  sliced  lemon  may  be  used  instead.  The  meat 
may  be  baked  instead  of  boiled,  and  then  a  little  weak  stock  should 
be  put  into  the  pan  with  it,  and  it  should  be  basted  frequently. 

Boiled  Breast  of  Veal. 

If  the  sweetbread  is  to  be  boiled  with  the  veal,  let  it  soak  in  water 
for  a  couple  of  hours;  then  skewer  it  to  the  veal.  Put  this  into  a 
saucepan,  with  boiling  water  to  cover  it;  let  it  boil  up,  and  care- 
fully remove  the  scum  as  it  rises;  add  a  handful  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper-corns,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  little 
salt.  Draw  it  back,  and  then  simmer  gently  until  done  enough. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  a  little  good  onion  sauce  or  parsley 
sauce  over  it.  Send  boiled  bacon  to  the  table,  on  a  separate  dish. 
The  sweetbread  may,  of  course,  be  dressed  separately. 

Ragout  of  Breast  of  Veal. 

Take  off  the  under  bone,  and  put  the  veal  into  a  stewpan  with  as 
much  boiling  stock  as  will  cover  it;  let  the  liquor  boil  up,  then  add 
a  large  carrot,  sliced,  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  pepper  and  salt;  skim 
the  gravy  and  simmer  it  gently  until  the  veal  is  quite  tender- 
Thicken  the  gravy  till  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  sauce,  and  stir  into 
it  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira. 
Put  the  veal  into  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with 
savory  forcemeat  balls  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Boasted  Breast  of  Veal. 

If  the  sweetbread  is  retained,  skewer  it  to  the  back;  season  and 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper.  Put  it  into  a  moderate  oven  and 
baste  liberally  till  it  is  done.  When  it  Js  roasted  about  an  hour  and 
a  half,  remove  the  paper,  flour  the  joint  and  let  it  brown.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  melted  butter  poured  over.     Garnish  with  sliced 

90 


'S06  MEATS. 

lemon.  Forcemeat  balls  may  be  served  with  the  veal  and  mush- 
room sauoe  sent  to  the  table  with  it.  Time,  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pou^nd. 

Bubble  and  Sqiteak  op  Veal. 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  veal;  cut  the  meat  into  neat  slices;  fry 
them  in  hot  fat;  put  them  where  they  will  keep  hot.  Take  some 
boiled  spinach,  fry  this,  also,  and  when  it  is  quite  hot,  pile  it  on  a 
dish  and  arrange  the  pieces  of  meat  around  it.  Send  tomato  or  any 
kind  of  piquant  sauce  to  table  with  it. 

Veal  Cake. 

Butter  a  plain  earthenware  dish  or  mold;  fill  it  with  alternate  layers 
of  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  chopped  parsley,  and  veal  and  ham, 
minced,  seasoned  highly,  mixed  thoroughly  and  beaten  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Pour  a  spoonful  or  two  of  seasoned  stock  upon  the  meat, 
cover  the  pan  closely  and  bake  in  a  gentle  oven.  When  done 
enough,  press  firmly  into  the  mold,  put  a  plate  with  a  weight  upon 
it,  and  let  it  remain  untouched  until  cold.  Turn  it  out,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve  for  luncheon  or  supper.  Time  to  bake, 
about  one  hour. 

Veal  Scallop. 

Chop  fine  some  cold  veal,  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding  dish,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Next  put  a  layer 
of  finely  powdered  crackers,  and  strew  some  bits  of  butter  over  it 
and  wet  with  a  little  milk;  then  more  veal,  seasoned  as  before,  and 
another  round  of  cracker  crumbs  with  butter  and  milk.  When  the 
dish  is  full,  wet  well  with  gravy  or  broth,  and  spread  over  all  a  thick 
layer  of  cracker,  seasoned  with  salt,  wet  into  a  paste  with  milk  and 
a  beaten  egg  or  two,  and  stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  and 
cover  and  bake  a  half  or  three-quarters  of  a  hour;  then  remove  the 
cover  and  brown  nicely. 

Calp's  Head,  Boiled. 

Take  a  calf  s  head,  cut  it  in  two,  and  take  out  the  brains;  wash 
the  head  in  several  waters,  and  let  it  soak  in  warm  water  for  a 


MEATS.  307 

quarter  of  an  hour.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  when 
the  water  comes  to  the  boil,  skim  carefully;  season  when  nearly 
done.  Half  a  head,  without  the  skin,  will  require  from  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  two  hours.  It  must  stew  gently  till  tender.  If  you  wish 
it  full-dressed,  score  it  superficially,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  rub  it  over  the  head  with  a  feather.  Powder  it  with  a  season- 
ing  of  finely-minced  or  dried  and  powdered  winter  savory,'  thyme, 
or  sage,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in 
the  oven;  when  diy,  pour  melted  butter  over.  You  may  garnish 
the  dish  with  broiled  rashers  of  bacon. 

Calf's  Brains  a  la  Ravigote. 

Wash  the  brains  in  several  waters,  and  free  them  from  skin  and 
fibre;  boil  them  for  ten  minutes  in  salt  and  water  mixed  with  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar,  and  when  they  are  firm,  cut  them  in  slices, 
dip  them  in  a  batter,  and  fry  them  to  a  light  brown.  Place  them 
in  a  circle  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  little  fried  parsley  in  the  centre,  and 
fiend  ravigote  sauce  {See  Savory  Sauces)  to  table  with  them. 


CHAPTER   XXIV, 


POULTRY. 


CmcKSN  Sautb,  a  la  Mabbngo. 

I AREFULLY  pick  and  singe  the  chicken.  Glean  it  with  a  wet 
towel^  as  washing  takes  away  much  of  the  nutriment.  Cut  the 
bird  in  pieces  beginning  with  the  wing.  Cut  a  small  piece  of 
the  breast  out  with  the  wing.  This  distributes  the  white  meat  with 
the  wing,  otherwise  the  wing  is  a  poor  part.  Next  cut  off  the  wing 
side  bone  and  then  the  legs,  cutting  the  upper  joint  in  two  near  the 
middle,  and  the  lower  the  same,  dividing  the  second  joint,  which 
many  think  the  best  part  of  the  chicken.  This  is  better  than  giving 
all  the  best  meat  to  obe  person.  Next  cut  through  the  ribs,  first 
one  side  then  the  other,  taking  the  breast  bone  off  and  cutting  it  in 
three  equal  parts,  trimming  off  the  ends  of  the  rib  bones.  It  will 
then  be  easy  to  remove  the  entrails.  Then  break  the  neck  and  cut 
the  backbone  in  two  pieces.  Save  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard;  cut 
out  the  little  sand-bag  from  the  latter,  and  remove  it  all,  instead  of 
splitting  it  open  and  leaving  the  skin.  In  removing  the  gall  take  a 
part  of  the  liver  to  make  sure  of  no  accident.  Then  place  all  these 
pieces  in  a  saucepan,  moistened  with  salad  oil.  As  soon  as  the 
chicken  begins  to  be  browned  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  stir 
together  and  let  the  whole  become  brown  by  cooking.  Then  cover 
the  whole  with  hot  water,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
If  too  much  salt  should  be  added  it  may  be  counteracted  by  a  little 
vinegar  and  sugar.  If  it  is  desired,  olives  or  button  onions  may  be 
added.  If  so,  put  them  in  when  the  hot  water  is  put  in  and  cook 
slowly.     After  the  flour  and  water  are  added,  stirring  is  necessary, 


/ 

i 


Poultry.  309 

and  it  should  be  done  with  a  flat  wooden  stick,  which  will  not 
scratch  the  pan  like  metal.  White  pepper  is  better  than  black,  as 
it  is  more  digestible  and  has  not  the  hard  pieces  of  shell.  An 
apple  corer  can  be  used  to  take  the  stones  out  of  the  olives,  but  a 
more  economical  instrument  is  a  small  sharp  knife  with  which  the 
olive  can  be  peeled  oft  the  stone.  The  onions  should  be  used  wliole, 
carefully  relieved  of  the  dry  shell.  When  the  chicken  is  sufficiently 
cooked,  add  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  but  the  wine  should 
not  be  added  until  ready  to  serve.  If  the  wine  and  olives  are  not 
used,  you  have  a  nice  brown  fricassee.  Those  chickens  are  the  best 
which  have  small  bones,  short  legs,  and  clean,  white-looking  flesh. 
Chickens  with  white  legs  should  be  boiled,  those  with  black  legs 
roasted.  The  flesh  of  chickens  is  generally  considered  more 
digestible  than  any  other  animal  food. 

Capok  Ranaqttb. 
Use  a  capon  or  nice  chicken.  Have  it  carefully  picked,  singed 
and  wiped  with  a  wet  towel;  cut  off  the  legs  just  below  the  joint; 
split  down  the  back,  and  take  out  the  crop;  then  bone  the  capon, 
which  is  done  in  this  way:  Cut  down  the  middle  of  the  back  all  the 
way;  take  out  the  crop,  without  breaking  the  skin  of  the  neck; 
tnm  back  the  skin  and  cut  the  joint  of  the  wing;  then  cut  along 
elose  to  the  bone,  until  you  have  reached  the  leg  joint,  which  twist 
out  of  joint  where  it  joins  the  body;  cut  down  the  side  until  jo\ 
have  reached  the  edge  of  the  breast  bone,  taking  care  not  to  cut 
the  entrails;  then  go  up  the  other  side  of  the  chicken  in  the  same 
manner  that  you  came  down.  Leave  the  leg  and  wing  bones  in; 
replace  the  bones  taken  out  by  stuffing,  and  sew  up  the  carcass. 
For  boned  chicken,  remove  all  bones  from  the  inside.  To  stuff  a 
capon  you  can  use'  enough  fresh  pork  and  veal,  in  equal  quantity, 
chopped  fine,  to  fill  up  the  place  in  the  carcass.  For  every  pound 
of  forcemeat  use  one  glass  of  wine  and  one  whole  egg;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  ground  spice,  one-half 
saltspoonful  of  pepper.  In  the  place  of  the  spices  you  can  lisa 
sweet  herbs.     You  can  use  in  the  place  of  this  forcemeat  a  nice 


810 


POULTRY. 


stuffing  of  bread.  When  finished  bake  slowly  about  two  hours. 
To  make  the  stuffing  use  fresh  pork  and  veal  in  equal  quantities, 
chopped  fine.  If  you  have  a  five-pound  chicken  three  pounds  of 
forcemeat  will  be  enough.  Make  two-thirds  the  weight  of  the 
chicken.  Lean  veal  and  lean  pork,  both  raw.  For  one  pound  of 
forcemeat  use  one  glass  of  wine — sherry  or  Madeira,  one  eggy  one 
teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  mixed  ground  spice,  and  one- 
half  saltspoonf  ul  of  pepper.  The  spice  may  be  cloves,  allspice,  and 
nutmeg,  and  any  sweet  herb  you  wish — thyme,  summer  savory,  or 
sweet  marjoram.  A  regular  boned  chicken  should  be  boiled,  stuffed 
and  sewed  up.  For  the  Ranaque,  stuff,  then  sew  up.  Leave  long 
ends  in  sewing  so  they  will  be  easy  to  remove  when  it  is  done. 
Push  the  legs  up  to  the  breast  as  far  as  possible.  Run  a  trussing 
needle  through  with  a  cord  attached,  which  tie  around  the  chicken. 
Then  run  a  cord  through  the  breast  and  wings,  and  pass  it  under 
the  back  and  tie.  A  skewer  may  be  used.  Bake  slowly  two  hours. 
It  may  be  well  to  tie  a  slice  of  pork  over  the  breast. 

Fricassebd  Chicebn. 

Cut  up  chicken,  and  boU  with  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  in  sufficient 
water  to  cover  till  quite  tender.  Fry  some  pork,  and,  when  cooked  a 
little,  drain  the  chicken  and  fry  with  the  pork  till  brown.  Then  take 
out  and  pour  the  broth  into  the  frying  pan  with  the  pork  fat,  and 
make  a  gravy  thickened  with  browned  fiour,  season  well  with  butter, 
and  put  the  chicken  into  the  gravy.  Be  sure  and  have  the  fat  quite 
hot  when  the  chicken  is  put  in,  so  it  will  brown  readily. 

Chicken  Pte. 

Take  two  full-grown  chickens,  or  more,  if  they  are  small,  disjoint 
them  and  cut  the  backbone,  etc.,  as  small  as  convenient;  boil  them 
with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  in  water  enough  to  cover  them;  let 
them  boil  quite  tender,  then  take  out  the  breast  bone.  After  they 
boil  and  the  scum  is  taken  off,  put  in  a  little  onion,  cut  very  fine, 
not  enough  to  taste  distinctly,  but  just  enough  to  flavor  a  little; 
rub  some  parsley  very  fine,  when  dry,  or  cut  fine  when  green — this 


I 


POULTRY.  311 

gives  a  pleaeant  flavor.  Season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
few  ounces  of  good  fresh  butter.  When  all  is  cooked  well,  have 
liquid  enough  to  cover  the  chicken;  then  beat  two  eggs  and  stir  in 
some  sweet  cream.  Line  a  flve-quart  pan  with  a  crust  made  like 
soda  biscuit,  only  more  shortening,  put  in  the  chicken  and  liquid, 
then  cover  with  a  crust  the  same  as  the  lining.  Bake  till  the  criist 
is  done,  and  you  will  have  a  good  chicken  pie. 

Prying  Chioblens. 

Many  people  prefer  chickens  fried  to  any  other  way.  Dissect, 
salt,  and  pepper;  roll  the  pieces  in  flour  and  fry  in  lard.  When 
done,  pour  off  the  lard  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
cup  of  cream,  a  little  flour,  and  some  parsley,  scalded  and  chopped 
fine  for  the  sauce. 

Cbicksn  Sai^ad. 

Cut  the  meat  from  two  chickens,  or  one,  if  you  want  a  small  dish. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  shred  lettuce,  after  you  have  cut  the 
chickens  into  narrow  shreds  two  inches  long;  stir  in  a  bowl.  Pre- 
pare a  dressing  thus:  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  lightly,  and 
beat  in,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil;  then,  as 
gradually,  three  teaspoonf uls  of  hot  vinegar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  best  celery  essence.  The  mixture  should  be  thick  as  cream;  pour 
over  the  chicken,  mix  well  and  lightly;  put  into  a  salad  dish  and 
lay  sections  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top,  with  a  chain  of  sliced 
whites  around  the  edge.  ,  * 

Chicken  Cboqitettbs. 

One  cold,  boiled  chicken,  chopped  fine;  then  take  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  and  when  the  milk  is  boiled,  stir  into  it  two  large  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  made  thin  in  a  little  cold  milk;  after  the  flour  is  well 
cooked  with  the  milk,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  eggy 
add  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper;  stir  all  well  into  the  chicken;  roll  up 
with  your  hand,  and  dip  first  into  an  egg  beaten  up,  then  into 
crackers  rolled  fine,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  lard  and  butter. 


'     / 


312  POULTRY. 

Bakbd  Chicken. 

Split  open  in  the  back,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  plenty  of 
butter;  pour  a  little  water  into  the  pan,  and,  whUe  baking,  baste 
often,  turning  the  chicken  so  as  to  nicely  brown  all  over.  When 
done,  take  up  the  chicken;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour 
and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat.  Chickens  £^e  nice  stuffed  and  baked  in 
the  same  manner  as  turkey. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Cook  Chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  up,  put  into  a  pari,  and  cover  with  water;  let  it 
stew  as  usual.  When  done,  make  a  thickening  of  cream  and  flour. 
Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  a  nice  shortcake,  baked 
and  cut  in  squares,  rolled  thin  as  for  crust.  Lay  the  cakes  on  th# 
dish,  and  pour  the  chicken  and  gravy  over  them  while  hot. 

Chicken  Pttdding. 

Cut  up  the  chickens  and  stew  until  tender.  Then  take  them 
from  the  gravy,  and  spread  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool,  having  first  well- 
seasoned  them  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Make  a  batter  of  one 
quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted 
butter,  one-half  teaspoonf ul  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  the 
ohicken  at  the  bottom,  and  then  a  cup  of  the  batter  over  it.  Pro- 
ceed till  the  dish  is  full.  The  batter  must  form  the  crust.  Bake 
an  hour,  and  serve  the  thickened  gravy  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Jellied  Chicken  or  Veal. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  until  the  meat  falls 
from  the  bones;  chop  rather  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
put  in  a  mold  a  layer  of  the  chopped  meat  and  then  a  layer  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices;  then  layers  of  meat  and  egg  alter- 
nately until  the  mold  is  nearly  full;  boil  down  the  liquor  left  in  the 
pot  one-half;  while  warm,  add  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine, 
and  when  dissolved,  pour  into  the  mold  over  the  meat.  Set  in  a 
cool  place  over  night,  to  jelly. 


POULTRY.  313 

Scalloped  Chioksk. 

Minoe  cold  chicken  and  a  little  lean  ham  quite  fine;  season  with 
pepper  and  a  little  salt;  stir  all  together,  add  some  sweet  cream,' 
enough  to  make  it  quite  moist,  cover  with  crumbs,  put  it  into 
scallop  shells  or  a  flat  dish,  put  a  little  butter  on  top,  and  brown 
before  the  fire  or  front  of  a  range. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie. 

Cut  and  joint  a  large  chicken;  cover  with  water,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  until  tender;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour  mixed  smooth  in  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Have  ready  a  nice,  light,  bread  dough; 
«ut  with  a  biscuit-cutter  about  an  inch  thick;  drop  this  into  the 
boiling  gravy,  having  previously  removed  the  chicken  to  a  hot 
platter;  cover,  and  let  it  boil  from  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  To  ascertain  whether  they  are  done  or  not,  stick  into  one  of 
them  a  fork,  and  if  it  comes  out  clean,  they  are  done.  Lay  on  the 
platter  with  the  chicken,  pour  over  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

Bboiled  Chicken. 

Only  young,  tender  chickens  are  nice  broiled.  After  cleaning 
and  washing  them,  split  down  the  back,  wipe  dry,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  lay  them  inside  down  on  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  bed 
«f  bright  coals.  Broil  until  nicely,  browned  and  well  cooked 
through,  watching  and  turning  to  prevent  burning.  Broil  with 
them  a  little  salt  pork,  cut  in  thin  slices.  After  taking  them  from 
the  gridiron,  work  into  them  plenty  of  butter,  and  serve,  garnished 
with  the  pork,  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 

Ducks  a  la  Fbancaisb. 

Lard  the  breast  of  a  duck  with  bacon  and  put  it  in  the  oven  for 
an  hour,  and  then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  of  gravy  previously  pre- 
pared in  the  following  manner:  To  one  pint  of  beef  gravy  add  two 
dozen  chestnuts,  roasted  and  peeled;  two  onions,  sliced  and  fried 
in  butter;  two  sage  leaves,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme;  pepper  and  salt. 


314  POULTRY. 

When  the  duck  has  stewed  till  tender  put  it  on  a  dish,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  port  wine  to  the  gravy,  a  little  butter,  and  flour 
to  thicken;  pour  it  over  the  duck  and  serve. 

Pbbssbd  Ghicksn. 

Boil  two  chickens  until  dropping  to  pieces;  pick  meat  off  bones, 

taking  out  all  skin;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  in  rdeep  tin 

mold;  take  one-fourth  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 

water,  add  to  liquid  left  in   kettle,   and  boil   until  it  begins    to 

thicken;  then  pour  over  the  chicken  and  set  away  to  cool;  cut  in 

slices  for  table. 

Duck  a  la  Modb. 

Take  a  couple  of  ducks,  divide  them  into  quarters  and  lay  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  a  sprinkling  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  a 
large  lump  of  butter  divided  into  pieces  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew- 
pan  and  fry  the  ducks  until  they  are  a  nice  light-brown  color. 
Remove  the  frying-pan  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  gravy  and  a  glass 
of  port;  sprinkle  more  flour  and  add  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  or 
three  shallots  minced  fine,  an  anchovy,  and  a  little  Cayenne  when 
the  ducks  have  stewed  in  the  gravy  till  tender,  put  them  on  a  dish, 
take  out  the  herbs,  clear  off  any  fat,  and  serve  with  the  sauce 

thrown  over  them. 

Bakbd  Duck. 

To  cook  a  duck  satisfactorily  boil  it  first,  until  tender;  this  can 

be  determined  by  trying  the  wing,  as  that  is  always  a  tough  part  of 

a  fowl.     When  tender  take  it  out,  rinse  it  in  clean  water,  stuff  and 

put  it  in  the  oven  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  it 

often. 

&BAISSD  Ducks. 

Prepare  the  ducks  exactly  like  chickens  for  the  dres^g,  which 
should  be  seasoned  with  butter,  sage  and  onions,  as  well  as  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  them  in  a  pot  with  some  chopped  onions,  a  little 
butter  and  water  enough  to  steam.  Let  them  stew  gently  with  the 
lid  on,  and  then  let  the  water  evaporate  and  then  brown  them. 
Serve  with  green  pease  and  jelly. 


POULTRY.  315 

Bbaise  op  Duck  with  Tubnip. 

Prepare  a  domestic  duck  as  for  roasting.  Line  a  small  pan,  just 
large  enough  for  the  duck,  with  slices  of  bacon;  strew  over  the 
bottom  a  little  parsley,  powdered  herbs,  and  lemon  peel;  lay  in  the 
duck,  and  add  a  carrot  cut  into  strips,  an  onion  stuck  with  a  few  cloves 
and  a  dozen  whole  peppers;  cover  with  stock  and  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  strong  vinegar;  baste  frequently  and  simmer  until  done. 
Fry  some  slices  of  turnip  in  butter  to  a  light-brown,  drain  and  add 
them  to  the  stewpan  after  removing  the  duck,  which  should  be  kept 
hot.  When  the  turnips  are  tender  remove  them,  strain  the  gravy, 
thickening  if  necessary  with  a  little  flour  or  arrow-root;  put  the 
duck  on  a  dish,  turn  the  hot  gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with  the 
turnips. 

Fbicassbed  Duck. 

Most  people  think  a  duck  must  be  roasted,  but  try  this  once 
instead:  Cut  a  mallard  or  red  duck  into  four  quarters;  chop  an 
onion  fine,  and  put  all  into  a  pot;  cover  with  water,  and  add  more 
as  it  boils  away.  Stir  a  little  celery  seed,  or  celery  chopped  up  fine, 
three  or  four  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  when  nearly  done  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Build  a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes 
around  your  dish  and  carefully  lay  the  contents  of  the  fricassee  in 
the  center.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  This  makes  a  juicy  and 
delicious  dish. 

Mock  Duck. 

Take  a  round  of  beefsteak;  salt  and  pepper;  prepare  a  dressing 
as  for  turkey  and  lay  it  in  the  steak;  sew  up;  lay  two  or  three  slices  of 
fat  pork  upon  it  and  roast;  baste  often  and  you  cannot  tell  it  from 
duck. 

Minced  Fowls. 

Remove  from  the  bones  all  the  flesh  of  either  cold,  roast  or  boiled 
fowls.  Clean  it  from  the  skin,  and  keep  covered  from  the  air  until 
ready  for  use.  Boil  the  bones  and  skin  with  three-fourths  of  a  pint 
of  water  until  reduced  quite  half.     Strain  the  gravy  and  let  cool.. 


816  POULTRY. 

Next,  having  first  ekimmed  oS  the  fat,  put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan 
with  a  half  cup  of  cream,  three  ounces  of  butter,  well  mixed  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Keep  these  stirred  until  they  boll. 
Tlien  put  in  the  fowl,  finely  minced  with  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped,  and  sufficient  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Shake  the  mince 
over  the  fire  until  just  ready  to  boil.  Dish  it  on  hot  toast,  and 
serve. 

To  Caeve  Roast  Fowl. 

Insert  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  and  cut  to  the 

1>one;  then  turn  the  leg  back  with  the  fork,  and,  if  the  bird  is  not 

old,  the  joint  will  give  way.     The  wing  is  next  to  be  broken  off, 

and  this  is  done  in  the  direction 

of  A  to  B,  only  dividing  the  joint 

with  a  knife.     The  four  quarters 

^  having  been  removed  in  this  way, 

take  off  the  merry-thonght  and 

the  neck  bones;  these  last  are  to  be  removed  by  putting  the  knife 

in  at  C  and  pressing  it,  when  they  will  break  off  from  the  part  that 

sticks  to  the  breast.     Next  separate  the  breast  from  the  body  of  the 

fowl  by  cutting  tfarongh  the  tender  ribs  olose  to  the  breast,  quite 

down  to  the  tail.     Turn  the  fowl  now  back  npwards;  put  the  knife 

into  the  bone  midway  between  the  neck  and  the  rump,  and  on 

raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  readily.    Turn  the  rump  from 

you  and  take  off  very  neatly  the  two  sidesmen,  which  completes 

the  operation.     The  breast  and  wings  are  considered  the  best  parts 

of  a  roast  fowl,  but  in  young  fowls  the  legs  are  most  juicy.     In  the 

•ase  of  a  capon  or  large  fowl,  slices  may  be  cut  off  the  breast. 

Cboqitbttbs. 

Chop  fine  any  cold  pieces  of  cooked  meat  or  chicken,  or  whatever 

yon  may  wish  to  use,  first  removing  all  fat,  bone,  etc.;  add  half  the 

quantity  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt;  make  into 

balls  and  cook  in  a  buttered  spider;  serve  hot. 


POULTBY.  317 

To  Cabvk  Boast  Goose. 
Begin  by  turning  the  neck  end  of  a  goose  toward  yon,  and  cat- 
ting the  whole  breast  in  long  sliees,  from  one  wing  to  ainother. 
(See  the  linea  A  B.)    To  take  off  the  leg,  insert  the  fork  in  the 
'  smaU  end  of  the  bone,  pressing  it  to  the  bodyj  put  the  knife  in  at 
A,  tarn  the  leg  back,  and  if 
the   bird   be   young  it  will 
easily  come  away;  if  old,  we 
.  wU  not  answer  for  it.    To  = 
take  off  the  wing,  insert  the  ! 
fork  in  the  small  end  of  the 

pinion,  and  press  it  close  to  the  body;  put  the  knife  in  at  B  and 
divide  the  joint.  When  the  leg  and  wing  are  off  one  side,  attack 
those  on  the  other;  but,  except  when  the  company  is  very  large,  it 
is  seldom  necessary  to  cut  up  the  whole  goose.  The  back  and  lower 
side-bones,  as  well  as  the  two  side-bones  of  the  wings,  may  be  cat 
off;  but  the' best  pieces  of  a  goose  are  the  breast  and  thighs,  after 
being  separated  from  the  drumstick.  Serve  a  little  of  the  seasoning 
from  the  inside,  by  making  a  circular  slice  in  the  apron  at  C. 
Should  there  be  no  stuffing,  a  glass  of  wine,  a  little  orange  gravy 
or  vinegar,  may  be  poured  into  the  body  of  the  goose  at  the  open- 
ing made  at  the  apron  by  the  carver.  _ 

To  Boil  Goosb. 
Pick  and  singe  a  goose  carefully.  Let  it  soak  in  lukewarm  milk 
aid  water  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  Stuff  and  truss  it  securely;  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover  it;  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  done  enough.  Send  good 
onion  sauce  to  the  table  with  it.  'fime,  from  an  hour  to  an  hour 
and  a  half  after  it  has  boiled. 

Roast  Goosb. 

Pluck  the  goose,  carefully  remove  the  qnill-Bookets  and  singe  off 

the  hairs;  cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  back,  leaving  the  skin  long 


318  POULTRY. 

enough  to  tuni  over.  After  drawing,  wash  and  wipe  the  bird  both 
inside  and  out,  and  cut  off  the  feet  and  pinions  at  the  first  joint; 
pull  out  the  throat  and  tie  the  end  securely;  beat  the  breast-bone 
flat  with  a  rolling-pin;  draw  the  legs  up  closely,  and  put  a  skewer 
through  them  and  through  the  body;  cut  off  the  end  of  the  vent 
and  make  a  hole  in  the  skin  large  enough  for  the  rump  to  go 
through.  This  will  prevent  the  seasoning  from  escaping.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  onior^  and  potatoes  cut  fine;  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  fill  the  goose  and 
tie  down  the  wings;  roast  two  hours  and  a  half.  Boil  the  liver  and 
heart  and  add  to  the  gravy,  which  must  be  thickened  with  floun 
Send  to  table  with  apple  sauce  and  mashed  potatoes. 

Stttpfing  with  Sags  and  Onion. 

Boil  four  large  onions  until  tender;  drain  them  from  the  water, 
and  mince  them  finely  with  four  fresh  sage  leaves,  or  six  dry  ofies, 
four  tablespoonf uls  of  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  moist  shgar,  oiie- 
half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  large  apple,  pared  and  cored,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  may  be  added,  if  approved. 

Tfrkby. 

The  turkey  is  highly  esteemed  and  usually  commands  a  high 
price,  especially  at  Christmas,  when  most  extravagant  prices  are 
often  demanded  and  obtained  for  large  and  well-fed  birds.  Turkeys 
are  in  season  from  September  to  March,  and  are  at  their  best  in 
December  and  January.  If  the  weather  is  suitable  they  should  be 
hung  fully  a  week  before  being  dressed.  In  very  cold  weather 
care  must  be  taken  that  they  are  not  frozen  in  hanging,  and  if  this 
is  the  case,  they  should  be  brought  into  a  warm  place  for  some 
hours  before  being  cooked,  or  they  will  be  spoilt.  The  hen  bird  is 
considered  the  best. 

"  The  turkey  is  the  largest  and,  if  not  the  most  delicate,  at  least 
the  most  savory,  of  domestic  poultry.  It  enjoys  the  singular 
advantage  of  assembling  around  it  every  class  of  society.     When 


POULTRY.  319 

our  fanners  regale  themselves  on  a  winter's  evening,  what  do  we 
see  roasting  before  the  kitchen  fire,  close  to  which  the  white-clothed 
table  is  set  ?  A  tnrkey.  When  the  useful  tradesman  or  the  hard- 
worked  artist  invites  a  few  friends  to  an  occasional  treat,  what  dish 
is  he  expected  to  set  before  them  ?  A  nice  roast  turkey,  stuffed 
with  sausage  meat  and  Lyons  chestnuts.  And  in  our  highest 
gastronomical  society,  when  politics  are  obliged  to  give  way  to 
dissertations  on  matters  of  taste,  what  is  desii'ed^  what  is  awaited, 
what  is  looked  out  for  at  the  second  course?  A  truffled  turkey. 
In  my  *  Secret  Memoirs '  I  find  sundry  notes  recording  that  on  many 
occasions  its  restorative  juice  has  illuminated  diplomatic  faces  of 
the  highest  eminence." 

Cabving  op  Tubkey. 

The  breast  of  a  turkey  is  so  large  that  slices  taken  neatly  from  it 
and  from  the  wings  generally  suffice  for  all  the  company.  They 
should  be  taken  from  each  lide  alternately,  beginning  close  to  the 
wings,  and  alittle  forcemeat  and  a  small  portion  of  liver  should  be 
served  to  each  guest.  When  it  is  necessary  that  the  legs  should  be 
used,  they  should  be  separated  from  the  body  with  a  sharp  knife 
and  cut  in  slices,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  they,  with  the 
gizzard,  will  make  an  excellent  devil. 

Boiled  Tttrkey  or  Capon. 

When  the  poultry  is  plucked  quite  clean  and  singed,  see  that  it  is 
neatly  trussed,  and,  before  finally  closing  the  vent,  stujff  the  bird 
inside  with  as  many  raw  oysters  of  the  best  quality  as  can  be  pro- 
cured, adding  to  the  same  a  lump  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  portion  of 
bread  crumbs  from  a  stale  loaf.  Remove  the  turkey  or  capons  into 
a  clean  cloth,  fold  them  up  carefully,  place  them  into  a  saucepan 
of  cold  water,  and  let  them  boil  over  a  moderately-heated  fire  until 
they  are  thoroughly  dorife.  Have  a  stick  of  white  blanched  celery 
at  hand  and  chop  it  up  very  small;  place  it  in  a  quart  of  new  milk 
in  a  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil  gently  with  a  few  black  pepper  corns, 
till  the  quantity  is  reduced  to  one  pint;  keep  stirring  the  esculent 


320  POULTRY.  ^ 

up  with  the  milk  until  it  assumes  the  character  of  a  consistent  pulp. 
Thicken  the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg,  well  beaten  up^ 
with  half  a  cup  of  fresh  cream.  Have  upon  the  table  a  sauce-boat 
of  strong  veal  grayy. 

Roast  Titbkbt. 

A  young  turkey,  weighing  not  more  than  eight  or  nine  pounds^ 
is  the  best.  Wash  and  clean  thoroughly,  wiping  dry,  as  moisture 
will  spoil  the  stuffing.  Take  one  small  loaf  of  bread  grated  fine^ 
rub  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper  and  one  of  salt;  sage,  if  liked.  Rub  all  together,  and 
fill  only  the  breast  of  the  turkey,  sewing  up  so  that  the  stuffing 
cannot  cook  out.  Always  put  the  giblets  under  the  side  of  the 
fowl,  so  they  will  not  dry  up.  Rub  salt  and  pepper  on  the  outside; 
put  into  dripping-pan  with  one  cup  of  water,  basting  often,  and  turn- 
ing it  till  brown  all  over.  Bake  about  three  hours.  Have  left  in  the 
chopping-bowl  a  little  stuffing;  take  out  the  giblets  and  chop  fine.. 
After  taking  out  the  turkey,  put  in  a  large  tablespoonf ul  of  flour; 
stir  until  brown.  Put  the  giblets  into  a  gravy-boat,  and  pour  ovei 
them  the  gravy. 

Roast  Turkey,  No.  2. 

Rinse  out  the  turkey  well  with  soda  and  water,  then  with  salt, 
lastly  with  clear  water.  Stuff  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread 
crumbs,  wet  up  with  butter  and  wat-^r  and  season  to  your  taste. 
Stuff  the  craw  and  tie  up  the  neck  I  the  body  and  sew  up  the 

vent.  We  need  hardly  say  that  .^^  bLrings  are  to  be  clipped  and 
removed  after  the  fowl  has  been  roasted.  Tie  the  legs  to  the  lower 
part  of  the  body  that  they  may  not  "  sprawl  '*  as  the  sinews  shrink. 
Put  into  the  dripping-pan,  pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  it,  and 
roast,  basting  often,  allowing  about  ten  minutes'  time  for  every 
pound.  Be  careful  not  to  have  your  oven  too  hot — especially  for 
the  first  hour  or  so.  The  turkey  would,  otherwise,  be  dry  and 
blackened  on  the  outside  and  raw  within.  Much  of  the  perfection 
of  roasting  poultry   depends   upon  basting  faithfully.     Boil  the 


POULTRY.  321 

giblets  tender  in  a  little  water.  When  the  turkey  is  done,  set  it 
where  it  will  keep  warm;  skim  the  gravy  left  in  the  pan;  add  a 
little  boiling  water;  thicken  slightly  with  browned  flour;  boil  up 
once  and  add  the  giblets  minced  fine.  Season  to  taste;  give  another 
boil,  and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roasting.  A  very  nice  dressing  is  mad« 
by  chopping  half  a  pint  of  oysters  and  mixing  them  with  bread 
crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  and  wet  with  milk  or  water. 
Baste  about  the  turkey  a  thin  cloth,  the  inside  of  which  has  been 
dredged  with  flour,  and  put  it  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  salt  in  it.  Let  a  large  turkey  simmer  for  three  hours. 
Skim  while  boiling.  Serve  with  oyster  sauce,  made  by  adding  to  a 
cup  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled  the  same  quantity 
of  milk  and  eight  oysters  chopped  fine;  season  with  minced  parsleys 
stir  in  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  flour  wet  with  cold  milk;  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.     Boil  up  once  and  pour  into  a  tureen. 

TuBKEY  Dressed  avith  Oysters. 

For  a  ten-pound  turkey  take  two  pints  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a 
cup  of  butter  cut  in  bits  (not  melted),  one  teaspoon ful  of  powdered 
thyme  or  summer  savory,  pepper,  salt,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Bub 
the  turkey  well  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  flU  with 
first  a  spoonful  of  crumbs,  then  a  few  well-drained  oysters,  using 
half  a  can  for  a  turkey.  Strain  the  oyster  liquor  and  use  to  baste 
the  turkey.  Cook  the  giblets  in  the  pan,  and  chop  fine  for  the 
gravy.  A  fowl  of  this  size  will  require  three  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Deviled  Turkey. 

The  legs,  back,  gizzard  and  rump  of  cold  dressed  turkey  may  be 
used  for  this  dish.  Score  the  meat  along  in  a  cross  at  regular  dis- 
tances, three-quarters  of  an  inch  apart,  and  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  deep.  Rub  into  the  gashes  a  well-mixed  seasoning  made  of  a 
saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a 

21 


322  '       POULTRY. 

saltspoonful  of  Cayenne,  and  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
cover  with  freshly-made  mustard.  Brush  the  pieces  of  meat  over 
with  butter  or  oil  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  till  they  are  brown  and 
crisp  without  being  at  all  burnt,  and  turn  them  over  that  they  may 
be  equally  done  on  both  sides.  Send  to  table  on  hot  dish  with 
little  pieces  of  butter  on  them.  Dry  toast  may  be  served  as  an 
accompaniment.  The  devil  will  be  all  the  more  savory  if  it  is  pre- 
pared some  hours  before  it  is  broiled.  If  liked,  half  a  clove  of 
garlic  may  be  minced  and  mixed  with  the  seasoning. 

Turkey  Scaixop. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  cold  turkey,  and  chop  it  fine. 
Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish, 
moisten  them  with  a  little  milk,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  turkey  with 
some  of  the  filling,  and  cut  small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top; 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full;  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the 
gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  and  pour  over  it.  Then  take  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonf uls  of  milk,  one  of  melted  butter^'  a  little  salt,  and 
cracker  crumbs  as  much  as  will  make  it  thick  enough  to  spread  on 
with  a  knife,  put  bits  of  butter  over  it,  ai|d  cover  with  a  plate. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  About^n  minutes  before  serving, 
remove  the  plate  and  let  it  brown.         .  ^ 

Plain  Stuffuio. 

Take  stale  bread,  cut  off  all  the  crust,  rub  very  fine  and  pour 
over  it  as  much  melted  butter  as  will  make  it  crumble  in  your 
hands;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Applb  Stuffing. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  tart  apples  which  have  been 
baked  or  scalded;  add  two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  some  powdered 
sage,  a  finely-shred  onion;  season  well  with  Cayenne  pepper.  For 
roast  goose,  duck,  etc. 


POULTRY.  323 

Potato  Stuffing. 
Take  tvo-thiida  bread  and  one-third  boiled  potatoes,  grated, 
bntter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper,  salt,  one  egg  and  a  little  ground  eage; 
mix  thoroaghly. 

CHESTIfCT  StUFFIHG. 

Boil  tbe  cheetnntB  and  shell  them;  then  blanch  them  and  boil 
nntil  Boft;  mash  them  fine  and  mix  with  a  little  sweet  cream,  eome 
bread  cmmbe,  pepper  and  salt.     For  turkey. 

For  other  stuffings,  see  "  Mfrctmeats," 


CHAPTER  XXV. 


SALADS. 


Anchoyt  Salad. 

ASH  six  anchovies  in  water,  remove  the  bones  and  the  insid^s, 
and  also  the  heads,  fins,  and  tails.  Put  theiA  on  a  dish  with 
two  large  heads  of  lettuce,  cut  small,  half  a  dozen  young 
onions,  a  saltspoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley,  and  a  sliced  lemon.  Pour 
oyer  them  the  juice  of  a  lemon  mixed  with  salad  oil,  and.nend  to 
table. 

Abtichoke  Salad. 

Wash  thoroughly  and  quarter  some  very  young  articholres,  and 
serve  them  with  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  and  oiL  Tliey  make  a  nice 
relish. 

Bbbtroot  Salad. 

To  some  nicely-boiled  and  well-sliced  beetroot,  lay  aicemate  rows 
of  onions,  also  sliced,  and  pour  over  them  any  salad  sauce,  or 
simply  oil  and  vinegar.     Garnish  with  curled  parsley. 

Celbby  Salad. 

Cut  nice  blanched  salad  very  small.  Wash  cleiB^  and  dry  it; 
pour  over  it  a  Mayonnaise  sauce  {See  Savory  Sauces),  or  any  salad 
dressing,  and  garnish  with  green  celery  leaves. 

Chickbn  Salad. 

Use  the  white  meat  of  two  good-sized  chickens,  and  celery 
enough  to  make  the  proportion  one-third  chicken  and  two-thirds 
celery;  boil  ten  eggs  hard,  rub  the  yolks  perfectly  smooth  with  a 
silver  spoon,  adding  gradually  four  tablespoonf uls  of  olive  oil,  one 

824 


«       SALADS.  326 

tablespoonful  of  made  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  add  sweet  cream  by  degrees  until 
about  the  consistency  of  batter.  Just  before  sending  to  the  table, 
mix  t^e  dressing  with  the  chicken  and  celery,  and  moisten  with 
sharp  vinegar.     The  juice  of  two  lemons  is  an  improvement. 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  2. 

Boil  the  white  meat  of  two  large  chickens;  cut  it  coarse,  and 
add  the  white  part  of  celery,  cut  coarse;  a  little  more  chicken  than 
celery. 

Dressing. — ^Three  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beateq;  one  pint  of  oil 
added  drop  by  drop,  and  beaten;  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  tea- 
^oonf  ul  of  dry  mustard,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  a  little  salt.  If 
not  moist  enough,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  to  it. 

Cabbaqb  Salad. 

To  a  dish  of  chopped  cabbage,,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
or  one  bunch  of  celery.  Put  in  a  bowl,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
one-half  cup  of  vinegar.  Set  the  bowl  into  hot  water,  and  stir  care« 
fully  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Let  it  get  cold,  and  pour  over  the 
cabbage.  If  it  does  not  moisten  it  enough,  put  in  a  little  more 
vinegar. 

Fish  Salad. 

This  consists  of  cold  fish  of  any  kind,  mixed  with  well-dried 
salad,  pickled  gherkins,  or  any  other  green  pickle.  Oysters  or 
flhrimps  may  be  added  to  the  other  fish,  which  should  be  separated 
neatly  into  flakes,  and  the  whole  moistened  with  a  salad  dressing. 

Garnish  with  some  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 

* 

Hot  Egg  Salad. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil  in  a  pan  and  let  it  get  hot 
B^ak  in  three  eggs;  stir  a  little  with  "   fork,  but  not  enough  to^ 


826  SALADS. 

mix  the  yolks  and  whites;  these  should  be  kept  separate.  Pat  the 
eggs  out  on  a  dish,  and  put  over  them  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  chopped 
pickle  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  lemon  rind.  Make  a  salad 
dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  three  of  salad  oil,  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Much  of  the  niceness  of  this  salad  depends  on  its  being  served  hot. 

Endivb  wfth  Wintkb  Salad. 

An  ornamental  and  wholesome  dish  of  salad  may  be  made  in 
winter  principally  by  the  aid  of  this  plant.  Only  a  little  cress, 
celery,  and  beetroot  will  be  necessary  to  form  a  striking  contrast  to 
the  crisp,  blanched  leaves  of  the.  endive,  which  may  be  arranged 
{en  bouquet)  in  the  centre,  or  interspered  with  other  materials, 
through  the  dish.  Endive  may  be  had  good  from  November  till 
March. 

Lbttitce  Salad. 

Wash  and  dry  nice  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  pour  over  a  salad 
dressing,  and  garnish  with  slices  o^  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Lbttucb  Salad,  Mo.  2. 

Wash,  dry,  and  shred  nice  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  put  them  in  s 
salad  bowl.  Cut  four  ounces  of  bacon  into  dice;  fry  these  with  a 
finely-minced  onion,  and  do  not  allow  them  to  bum,  add  a '  little 
salt,  if  needed,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of 
Vinegar;  pour  all  over  the  lettuce  and  mix  thoroughly.  Serve 
immediately. 

Lobster  Salad. 

0 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  body  of  a  lobster,  take  out  the  tail  part 
in  one  piece,  and  cut  it,  with  the  contents  of  the  claws,  into  slices 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Chop  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  small,  and  rub  the  yolks  smooth.  Do  the  same  with  the  spawn 
or  coral  of  the  lobster,  but  mix  the  soft  part  and  any  bits  with  the 
sauce.  Pour  the  sauce  into  the  bowl,  put  in  a  layer  of  shred  lettuce 
and  small  salad,  and  place  the  slices  of  lobster,  with  hard-boiled  eggs 


I  •  ^ 

I 


SALADS.  327 

quartered  and  interspersed,  with  sliced  beetroot,  cucumber,  etc.,  on 
the  top.  Repeat  in  the  same  manner  till  the  bowl  is  full,  sprinkling 
the  egg  and  coral  over  and  between  the  layers.  To  ornament, 
reserve  some  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  yolks  and  whites,  arrange 
these  with  the  coral,  beetroot,  and  sliced  lobster,  so  that  the  colors 
may  contrast  welL     Before  serving,  pour  some  Mayonnaise  sauce 

over  the  top. 

Gams  Salad. 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  cooked  game,  pick  up  fine,  and  cover 
with  a  dressing  made  as  follows:  Take  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled 
egg  and  mix  it  smoothly  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  salad  oil ;  stir  in  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  made  mustard,  a  dessertspoonful  of 
walnut  catsup,  and  three  dessertspoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Obangb  Salad. 

A  very  simple  dish  made  of  tart  oranges.  Some  peeled  and 
sliced  and  some  sliced  unpeeled,  garnished  with  one  tablespoonful^ 
of  lemon-juice,  three  tablespooilf  uls  of  salad  oil  and  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper.  This  is  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast,  or  with  game  or  cold 
meats.  The  oil,  lemon,  juice  and  pepper  should  be  mixed  in  a  dish 
and  poured  over  the  oranges. 

Potato  Salad. 

Take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin;  add  to  them 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  sliced  thin;  chop  one  small,  fresh  onion. 
In  a  glass  bowl  or  salad  dish  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of 
eggs,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pep- 
per. For  dressing,  take  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  and  stir  into  it  half 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  made  mustard.  Beat  into  it,  drop  by  drop,  three 
tablespoonf  uls"  of  sweet  cream;  add  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  strong 
vinegar  and  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  If  needed 
for  supper  make  at  noontime.  Flakes  of  cold  boiled  salmon,  cod, 
or  halibut,  substituted  for  the  eggs,  or  added  with  them,  will 
improve  the  salad. 


328  SALADS. 

SAiiMON  Salad. 

One  can  of  fresh  salmon,  four  bunches  of  celery;  chop  as  for 
chicken  salad;  mix  with  the  salmon,  and  pour  salad  dressing  over  it. 

Summer  Salad. 

Cut  up  a  pound  of  cold  beef  into  thin  slices,  and  half  a  pound  of 
white,  fresh  lettuce;  put  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  that  quantity  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  vinegar, 
and  four  of  good  salad  oil.  Stir  all  together  lightly  with  a  fork 
and  spoon,  and  when  well  mixed  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Chaptal,  a 
French  chemist,  says  the  dressing  of  a  salad  should  be  saturated 
with  oil,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  before  the  vinegar  is 
added;  it  results  from  this  process  that  there  can  never  be  too  much 
vinegar,  for,  from  the  specific  gravity  of  the  vinegar  compared 
with  the  oil,  what  is  more  than  useful  will  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl,  the  salt  should  not  be  dissolved  in  the  vinegar,  but  in  the  oil, 
by  which  means  it  is  more  equally  distributed  throughout  the  salad. 

Russian  Salad. 

* 

Any  three  kinds  of  vegetables  may  be  used— carrots,  turnips 
and  beets;  string  beans,  carrots  and  turnips;  or  carrots,  turnips 
and  parsnips.  The  vegetables  should  be  cut  in  slices  about  one 
and  a  half  inches  thick.  These  slices  should  be  cut  into  cylin- 
der-shaped pieces.  This  could  be  done  with  an  apple-corer  or  with 
a  knife.  These  pieces  should  be  put  in  dishes,  keeping  each  vege- 
table separate.  As  they  are  cut  throw  the  pieces  into  cold  water; 
take  from  the  cold  water  and  put  into  boiling  water  containing  a 
spoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water.  Boil  each  vegetable  by  itself 
and  boil  until  tender;  drain  off  the  juice  and  put  the  pieces  into 
cold  water  until  they  are  thoroughly  cold.  They  are  then  ready  to 
use  for  the  salad.  Beets  must  not  be  peeled  or  cut.  When  boiled 
tender  the  skins  should  be  taken  off  by  rubbing  in  a  towel  as  soon 
as  cool  enough  to  handle,  and  then  cut  in  pieces  like  the  other 
vegetables.     The  pieces  left  after  cutting  out  what  is  wanted  can 


4 

SALADS.  '  329 

be  saved  hj  putting  them  in  cold  salt  water.  Pease,  beans,  spinach, 
and  all  vegetables,  can  be  kept  green  by  boiling  and  putting  them 
in  salt  cold  water  until  wanted  to  use.  The  dressing  for  the 
Russian  salad  is  made  plain,  like  that  of  orange  salad,  being  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon- juice  or  vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad 
oil,  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper.  It  is  best  not  to  put  on  the  dressing 
until  ready  to  serve. 

• 

Sidney  Smith's  Rbceipt  fob  Salad  Dbessiko. 

Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  a  kitchen  sievei 

Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give; 

Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon; 

Yet  deem  it  not.  though  man  of  taste,  a  fault, 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 

Four  times  the  spoon,  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 

And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 

True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 

Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole; 

And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 

A  magic  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Oh,  great  and  glorious!  oh,  herbaceous  meat  I 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat; 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 

Vegetables  Aip  Salads. 

Upon  the  washing  of  green  vegetables  for  salads  much  of  their 
excellence  depends;  they  should  be  shaken  about  without  breaking 
in  a  large  pan  of  cold  water  well  salted,  since  the  action  of  the  salt 
will  destroy  all  the  minute  inhabitants  of  their  fresh  green  coverts, 
and,  once  dead,  from  sheer  force  of  gravity  they  will  fall  to  the 
bottom  of  the  water.     When  the  salad  plants  are  free  from  sand 


330  SALADS. 

and  insects  they  should  be  shaken  without  breaking  th^r  leaves,  is 
a  colander,  a  wire  basket,  or  a  dry  napkin  until  no  moisture  adheres 
to  them;  then  they  may  be  used  at  once  or  kept  until  wanted  in  a. 
very  cold,  dark  place. 

Wateb-cbess  Salad. 
Gkither  the  water-cress  when  young,  cleanse  it  thoroughly  in  salt 
and  water,  and  serve  as  fresh  as  possible.  Place  it  in  a  bowl,  either 
alone  or  mixed  with  other  salad  plants,  and  toss  in  lightly  a  simple 
salad  sauce.  When  served  at  breakfast,  water-cress  is  best  sent  Xa^ 
the  table  as  it  is,  fresh  and  crisp. 

Salad  DssssiNa. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  let  it  get  hot;  then  beat  up  t^o- 
eggs,  half  a  tablespoonf ul  of  flour,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonf ul  of  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  stir  this  in  the  vinegar  and  let  the 
whole  boil  up  till  it  is  like  custard,  then  mix  it  with  whatever  you 
have  for  a  salad.     It  is  good  for  potatoes,  meat  or  flsh. 

Salad  Dbessing,  No.  2. 

Tolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  very  fine  and  smooth,  one 
teaspoonf  ul  English  mustard,  one  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  raw  egga 
beaten  into  the  other,  dessertspoonful  of  fine  sugar.  Add  very 
fresh  sweet  oil,  poured  in  by  very  small  quantities,  and  beaten  aa 
long  as  the  mixture  continues  to  thicken;  then  add  vinegar  till  as 
tidn  as  desired.  If  not  hot  enough  with  mustard,  add  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

Soups. 

HERE  is  no  part  of  cookery  which  is  so  imperfectly  understood 
by  ordinary  cooks  as  the  preparation  of  a  soap.  Amongst 
the  wealthy  it  is  considered  a  necessity,  and,  as  a  matter  of 
course,  forms  part  of  the  dinner.  Amongst  the  middle  classes  it  i» 
more  usually  served  than  it  used  to  be,  and  is,  year  by  year, 
increasingly  appreciated;  but  amongst  the  lower  classes  it  is  all 
but  scorned;  and  mistresses  of  small  households  will  testify  that 
the  maid-of -all-work,  who,  when  at  home  is  half  starved  instead  of 
being  properly  fed,  will  consider  herself  most  hardly  used  if  part  of 
the  provision  of  the  day's  dinner  consists  of  a  portion  of  wholcifome 
soup.  This  opinion  is,  of  course,  a  sign  of  ignorance.  Soup  is  both 
nourishing  and  wholesome,  and  it  may  also  be  prepared  economi- 
cally. With  attention  and  a  little  trouble,  it  may  be  made  from 
very  inexpensive  materials,  and  considering  that  when  soup  has 
been  served,  smaller  inroads  are  made  into  the  joint,  the  frugal 
housekeeper  who  has  once  calculated  the  difference  in  cost  of  a  din- 
ner consisting  of'  an  economically  made  soup,  meat  and  vegetables, 
and  one  of  meat  and  vegetables  only,  will  never  object  to  the 
introduction  of  soup  at  her  table  on  account  of  the  expense.  Soup 
may  be  made  of  a  large  variety  of.  different  articles,  including  meat 
of  all  kinds,  bones,  game,  and  poultry;  fish,  shell-fish,  all  kinds  of 
vegetables,  herbs,  and  farinaceous  articles,  milk,  eggs,  etc.  The 
basis  of  all  soup  is  stock.  Instructions  in  making  this  will  be 
found  in  its  proper  place,  and  it  will,  therefore,  not  be  considered 

881 


332  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

here.  Directions  for  making  various  soups  will  be  found  under 
their  several  headings;  nevertheless,  it  may  be  found  useful  if  a 
few  rules  of  universal  application  are  here  given  as  an  assistance  in 
their  manufacture. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  soups— celery  soup,  thick  soup  and 
purees.  A  pur6e  is  made  by  rubbing  the  ingredients  of  which  it  is 
composed  through  a  sieve.  A  thick  soup  is  stock  thickened  by  the 
addition  of  various  thickening  ingredients.  These  soups  are  best 
suited  to  the  winter  season.  Clear  soup  is  thin  and  bright,  and 
adapted  for  use  in  the  summer  months.  In  making  soup  it  is  most 
important  th*at  every  culinary  article  used  should  be  perfectly  clean. 
The  inside  of  the  covers  of  saucepans,  the  rims  and  the  handles 
particularly  require  attention.  The  lid  of  the  saucepan  should 
never  be  removed  over  a  smoky  fire.  The  meat  used  should  be 
freshly  killed,  and  should  be  as  lean  as  it  can  be  procured;  it  should 
never  be  washed.  The  bones  should  be  broken  up  into  small  pieces. 
Cold  water  should  be  put  upon  fresh  meat  and  bones;  boiling  water 
(a  small  quantity  at  a  time)  upon  meat  or  vegetables  that  have  been 
fried  or  browned.  As  it  is  very  imports^nt  that  no  fatty  particles 
should  be  left  to  float  on  the  surface  of  the  soup,  this  should  be 
made,  if  possible,  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  so  that  the  fat  may 
be  removed  after  it  has  grown  cold.  Soup  should  be  simmered  very 
softly  till  it  is  done  enough.  A  large  fire  and  quick  boiling  are  the 
•great  enemies  of  good  soup.  In  flavoring  soup,  the  cook  should  be 
careful  to  add  the  seasoning  ingredients  in  moderation  and  grad- 
ually, especially  such  things  as  garlic,  onions,  shallots,  spices,  herbs, 
salt  and  Cayenne.  An  overdose  of  salt  has  spoilt  many  a  dish  of 
■oup,  while  a  deficiency  thereof  has  again  and  again  nullified  the 
effect  of  the  most  delicate  combination  of  flavors.  As  a  general 
rule,  two  ounces  of  salt  will  suffice  for  a  gallon  of  soup  stewed  with 
large  quantities  of  vegetables;  an  ounce  and  a  half  only  will  be 
needed  if  the  vegetables  are  omitted,  or  if  a  small  quantity  only  is 
Qsed.  It  should  be  remembered  that  salt  and  all  seasonings  can  be 
added  when  they  cannot  be   taken  out.     For  flavoring  purposes, 


^m 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  333 

aromatic  seasoning  of  herbs,  and  spices,  and  herb-powders  for 
favoring  soups,  will  be  found  of  great  use.  Whatever  ingredients 
are  added  to  soup,  whether  farinaceous  articles,  such  as  rice,  ver- 
micelli,  macaroni,  etc.,  or  vegetables,  all  should  be  partially  boiled 
in  plain  water  before  they  are  put  into  the  liquor.  This  will  insure 
their  being  perfectly  clean  and  bright.  The  flavor  of  rich  brown 
soups  will  be  brought  out  better  if  a  small  piece  of  sugar  be  added 
to  it.  This  must  not  be  used  for  white  soups.  Cream  or  milk, 
when  put  with  soups,  should  be  boiled  separately,  strained,  and 
added  boiling.  If,  instead  of  cream,  milk  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
are  used,  the  egg  must  on  no  account  be  boiled  in«  the  liquor. 
Either  it  must  be  mixed  thoroughly  with  a  little  of  the  soup  which 
has  cooled  for  a  minute,  then  be  stirred  into  the  rest,  or,  better 
still,  it  must  be  put  into  the  soup  tureen,  a  spoonful  of  the  soup 
mixed  with  the  milk  stirred  into  it,  and  the  rest  added  gradually. 
If  soups  are  to  be  kept  for  a  few  days  they  should  be  boiled  up 
every  day,  according  to  the  state  of  the  weather,  put  into  freshly- 
scalded  dry  earthenware  crocks  or  pans  and  kept  in  a  cool  place; 
cover  viith.  a  piece  of  gauze.  Soup  should  never  be  kept  in  metal 
vessels. 

Stock. 

Stock  is  the  basis  of  all  meat  sauces,  soups  and  purees.  It  is 
really  the  juice  ©f  meat  extracted  by  long  and  gentle  sinimering, 
and  in  making  it,  it  should  be  remembered  that  the  object  to  be 
aimed  at  is  to  draw  the  goodness  of  the  material  out  into  the  liquor. 
It  may  be  prepared  in  various  ways,  richly  and  expensively,  or 
economically.  All  general  stock,  or  stock  which  is  to  be  used  for 
miscellaneous  purposes,  should  be  simply  made,  that  is,  all  flavoring 
ingredients  should  be  omitted  entirely  until  its  use  is  decided  upon. 
The  stock  will  then  keep  longer  than  it  would  do  if  vegetables, 
herbs,  and  spices  were  boiled  in  it,  besides  which  the  flavoring  can 
be  adapted  to  its  special  purpose.  To  ensure  its  keeping,  stocks 
should  be  boiled  and  skimmed  every  day  in  summer,  and  every 
other  day  in  winter.     The  pan  and  lid  used  in  making  it  should  bo 


884  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

scrupulonsly  clean.  A  tinned  iron  pan  is  the  best  for  the  purpose. 
Those  who  wish  to  practice  economy  should  procure  a  digester, 
which  is  a  kind  of  stock-pot  made  with  the  object  of  retaining  the 
goodness  of  the  materials,  and  preventing  its  escape  by  steam, 
when  ready  stock  should  be  kept  in  an  earthenware  vessel,  and 
never  allowed  to  cool  in  a  metal  pan.  Before  being  used,  skim  off 
,  all  fat.  Excellent  stock  is  constantly  made  with  the  bones  and 
trimmings  of  meat  and  poultry,  with  the  addition  or  not  of  a  little 
fresh  meat,  or  a  portion  of  extract  of  meat.  In  a  house  where  meat 
is  regularly  used,  a  good  cook  will  never  be  without  a  little  stock. 
Broken  renumnts  of  all  kinds  will  find  their  way  to  the  stock-pot, 
and  will  not  be  thrown  away  until,  by  gentle  stewing,  they  have 
been  made  to  yield  to  the  utmost  whatever  of  flavor  and  goodness 
they  possessed.  When  fresh  meat  is  used  it  is  better  for  being 
freshly  killed.  The  liquor  in  which  fresh  meat  has  been  boiled 
should  always  be  used  as  stock. 

^       Bean  Soitp. 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pints  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  In 
the  morning  drain  off  the  water,  wash  the  beans  in  fresh  water  and 
put  them  into  a  soup  kettle  with  four  quarts  of  good  beef  stock, 
from  which  all  the  fat  has  been  removed.  Set  it  where  it  will  boil 
slowly  but  steadily  until  dinner,  or  three  hours  at  the  least.  Two 
hours  before  dinner  slice  in  an  onion  and  a  carrot.  Some  think  it 
improved  by  adding  a  little  tomato.  If  the  beans  are  not  liked 
whole,  strain  through  a  colander  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Asparagus  Soitp. 

Select  about  two  dozen  of  good  asparagus  stalks;  boil  these 
thoroughly  in  enough  water  to  cover  them;  a  quarter  of  an  onion 
boiled  with  the  asparagus  is  an  improvement.  When  tender,  take 
the  asparagus  out  of  the  water,  saving  the  water,  and  removing  the 
onion;  cut  the  asparagus  into  small  pieces,  of  course  only  the 
tender  part,  and  put  them  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little  of  the  water; 
most  be  pounded,  until  perfectly  smooth;  now  take  some  sifted 


SOUPS.  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  335 

ilonr,  a  dessertspoonf  ul,  a  bit  of  butter  aa  big  as  an  eggy  and  a  very 
little  pulverized  sugar;  mix  well^  and  then  put  on  the  fire  until  it 
melts,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  this  to  the  pounded  asparagus  and 
the  rest  of  the  water;  when  it  has  boiled  a  tew  minutes,  mix  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  with  a  tumblerful  of  oream,  and  add  this;  if 
properly  made,  it  wants  no  straining;  use  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  very  little  nutmeg;  one  stalk  of  asparagus  may  be  left,  which 
may  be  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  added  last. 

Beef  Soup. 

Boil  a  soup  bone  about  four  hours;  then  take  out  meat  into  a 
-chopping-bowl;  put  the  bones  back  into  the  kettle.  Slice  very  thin 
one  small  onion,  six  potatoes,  and  three  turnips  into  the  soup;  boil 
until  all  are  tender.  Have  at  least  one  gallon  of  soup  when  done. 
It  is  improved  by  adding  crackers,  rolled,  or  noodles,  just  before 
taking  off.  Take  the  meat  that  has  been  cut  from  the  bones,  chop 
fine  while  warm,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  cup  of  soup, 
saved  out  before  putting  in  the  vegetables;  pack  in  a  dish,  and  slice 
"down  for  tea  or  lunch  when  cold. 

COHKON  SOTTP. 

Take  shank  or  neck  of  beef  or  meat  of  fowls;  cut  fine;  crack  the 
l>ones;  put  in  a  pot  and  stew  slowly  several  hours,  until  all  the 
meats  are  cooked  to  shreds.  Pour  on  a  little  boiling  water  and 
keep  boiling  until  nearly  ready  to  serve;  skim  off  all  grease;  add 
vegetables,  potatoes,  carrots,  barley  or  rice  as  you  may  prefer — ^the 
'vegetables  having  been  previously  cooked  by  themselves — and  then 
add  a  little  butter  to  give  it  richness. 

Clam  Soup. 

Select  five  large,  plump  clams,  and  after  chopping  them  finely; 
add  the  liquor  to  the  meat.  To  every  dozen  allow  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  and,  putting  meat,  liquor  and  water  into  a  clean  vessel,  allow 
them  to  simmer  gently,  but  not  boil,  about  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Every  particle  of  meat  should  be  so  well  cooked  that  you  seem  to 


336  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

have  only  a  thick  broth.  Season  to  taste  aud  pour  into  a  tureen  in 
which  a  few  slices  of  well>browned  toast  have  been  placed.  If 
desired,  to  every  two  dozen  of  clams  allow  a  cup  of  new  milk  and 
one  egg.  Beat  the  latter  very  light,  add  slowly  the  milk,  beat 
hard  a  minute  or  so,  and  when  the  soup  is  removed  from  the  fire, 
stir  the  egg  and  ipilk  into  it. 

Corn  Soup. 

Twelve  ears  of  com  scraped  and  the  cobs  boiled  twenty  minutes 
in  one  quart  of  water.  Remove  the  cobs  and  put  in  the  corn  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  quarts  of  rich  milk.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Boil  the  whole  ten  minutes  and  turn  into  a  tureen  in  which 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  hate  been  well  beaten. 

Fbsnch  Ybgbtable  Soup. 

To  a  leg  of  lamb  of  moderate  size  take  four  quarts  of  water.  Of 
carrots,  potatoes,  onions,  tomatoes,  cabbage  and  turnips,  take  a  cup 
each,  chopped  fine;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  lamb  be 
boiled  in  this  water.  Let  it  cool;  skim  off  all  fat  that  rises  to  the 
top.  The  next  day  boil  again,  adding  the  chopped  vegetables. 
Let  it  boil  three  hours  the  second  day. 

Egg  Soup. 
Boil  a  leg  of  lamb  about  two  hours  in  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
After  it  has  boiled  about  an  hour  and  when  carefully  skimmed,  add 
one-half  cup  of  rice,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  in 
your  tureen  two  eggs  well  beaten;  add  the  boiling  soup,  a  little  at 
a  time,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  the  lamb  with  drawn  butter, 
garnished  with  parsley  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  slices. 

Chicken  Soup. 

Boil  a  pair  of  chickens  with  great  care,  skimming  constantly  and 
keeping  them  covered  with  water.  When  tender,  take  out  the 
chicken  and  remove  the  bone.  Put  a  large  lump  of  butter  into  a 
spider,  dredge  the  chicken  meat  well  with  flour,  and  lay  in  the  hot 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  387 

pan;  fry  a  nice  brown,  and  keep  hot  and  dry.  Take  a  pint  of  the 
chicken  water,  and  stir  in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  two 
of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt  and  a  little  Cay- 
enne; stir  until  smooth,  then  mix  it  with  the  broth  in  the  pot. 
When  well  mixed,  simmer  five  minutes,  then  add  the  browned 
chicken.     Serve  with  rice. 

Cabbagb  Soup. 

Put  into  your  soup  kettle  a  couple  of  pounds  of  sweet  bacon  or 
pork  that  has  not  been  too  long  in  salt.  Add,  if  you  like,  a  bit  of 
knuckle  of  veal,  or  mutton,  or  beef,  or  all  three;  skim  well  as  they 
come  to  a  boil.  Shred  into  a  pail  of  cold  water  the  hearts  of  one 
or  two  cabbages,  some  carrots,  turnips,  celery  and  leeks.  When 
the  soup  boils,  throw  all  these  in.  When  the  vegetables  are  tender 
without  falling  to  pieces,  the  soup  is  done.  You  may  thicken  P'ith 
a  few  mashed,  boiled  potatoes.  Simmer  the  meat  two  hours  before 
adding  the  vegetables. 

GssBK  Pba  Soup. 

Boil  a  pint  of  green  pease  in  water  with  salt,  a  head  of  lettuce, 
an  onion,  a  carrot,  a  few  leaves  of  mint,  and  a  strip  of  parsley,  some 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  lump  of  sugar.  When  thoroughly 
done,  strain  off  the  liquor  and  pass  the  pease,  etc.,  through  a  hair 
sieve;  add  as  much  of  the  liquor  as  will  bring  it  to  the  right  con- 
sistency; put  the  soup  in  a  saucepan  with  a  small  pat  of  fresh 
butter;  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  with  dice-shaped  bread  fried  in 
butter. 

Gumbo  Soup. 

Cut  up  a  pair  of  good-sized  chickens,  as  for  a  fricassee;  flour 
them  well,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter, 
and  fry  a  nice  brown;  then  lay  them  in  a  soup-pot,  pour  on  three 
quarts  of  hot  water,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours. 
Braid  a  little  flour  and  butter  together  for  a  thickening,  and  stir  in 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.     Strain  a  quart  or  three  pint»  oi  oystett», 


338         SOUPS.  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

and  add  the  juice  to  the  Boup.  Next  add  four  or  five  slices  of  cola 
l>oiled  ham,  and  let  all  boil  slowly  together  for  ten  minutes.  Just 
before  you  take  up  the  soup,  stir  in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  finely- 
powdered  sassafras  leaves,  and  let  it  sinnner  five  minutes,  then  add 
your  oysterM.  If  you  have  no  ham,  it  is  very  nice  without  it.  Serve 
in  a  deep  dish,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  rice. 

Plain  Gumbo  Soup. 

Take  a  piece  of  ham  half  the  size  of  your  hand,  and  a  knuckle  of 
veal;  put  them  in  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  simmer 
slowly  two  or  three  hours,  then  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  put  in  one  small  can  of  okra  and  as 
many  oysters  as  you  please.    Season  to  taste. 

LoBSTEB  Soup. 

One  large  lobster;  pick  all  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  chop  fine; 
take  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  water,  and,  when  boiling, 
add  the  lobster,  nearly  a  pound  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour.     Boil  ten  minutes. 

*  Macaboni  Soup. 

Six  pounds  of  beef  put  into  four  quarts  of  water,  with  one  large 
onion,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  and  a  head  of  celery,  and  boiled  three 
or  four  hours  slowly. .  Next  day  take  off  the  grease  and  pour  into 
the  soup-kettle,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  add  a  pint  of  macaroni 
broken  into  small  pieces,  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  tomato  catsup. 
Half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  long  enough  to  boil  the 
Becond  day. 

Macaboni,  ob  Vebmicblli  Soup. 

Two  small  carrots,  four  onions,  two  turnips,  two  cloves,  one 
tablespoonf  ul  salt;  pepper  to  taste.  Herbs — marjoram,  parsley  and 
thyme;  any  cooked  or  uncooked  meat.  Put  the  soup  bones  in 
enough  water  to  cover  them;  when  they  boil,  skim  them  and  add 
the  vegetables.  Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  then  strain  through 
a  colander  and  put  back  in  the  saucepan  to  re-heat.     Boil  one-half 


SOUPS.  SAUCES.  AND  FORCEMEATS.         389 

pound  of  macaroni  until  quite  tender,  and  place  in  the  soup  tureen, 
and  pour  the  soup  over  it — the  last  thing.  Vermicelli  will  only 
need  to  be  soaked  a  short  time — not  boiled. 

Mock  Terrapin  Soitp. 

For  the  mock  .terrapin  soup,  take  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of 
calf's  liver  and  put  in  salt  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour;  add  small 
herbs,  one-half  dozen  grains  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  cloves,  a 
few  slices  of  onion,  carrot,  etc.  When  the  vegetables  are  done, 
take  them  out  and  mash  by  putting  them  through  a  colander 
or  sieve.  Make  a  Spanish  sauce  of  salt  pork  or  bacon,  fried 
enough  to  get  the  fat  -out  of  it;  put  into  the  fat  a  little  slice  of 
onion,  a  little  celery,  one-half  dozen  peppers,  one-half  cup  of  tomato, 
and  cook  brown.  Take  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salad  oil,  a  yolk  of  a  hard- 
boiled  eggy  dust  of  Cayenne  pepper,  roll  to  paste,  and  make  into 
small,  round  balls;  put  these  into  Spanish  sauce,  then  put  the  sauce 
into  the  soup.  When  they  come  to  the  top,  skim  them  out.  Put 
in  the  tureen  a  glass  of  wine  and  slice  of  lemon,  and  pour  in  the 
soup;  then  cut  the  calf's  liver  into  small  bits  and  add  it. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Clean  a  calfs  head  well  and  let  it  stand  in  salt  and  water  two  or 
three  hours;  then  soak  it  in  fresh  water.  Put  it  to  boil  in  cold 
water,  and  when  sufficiently  cooked,  separate  the  meat  from  the 
bone.  Strain  the  broth,  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  add  it  to 
tilt?  broth;  seaf^on  with  salt  and  Worcester  sauce,  both  of  which  are 
particularly  suited  to  this  soup.  Next  take  one  pound  of  suet,  and 
two  pounds  of  veal,  chopped  fine,  with  sufficient  bread  crumbs.  Sea- 
soning as  above,  make  some  forcemeat  balls  and  fry  them  in  butter; 
chop  three  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  these  and  a  glass  of  wine. 

Mutton  Soup. 

Boil  a  leg  of  mutton  from  two  to  three  hours,  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  about  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  summer  savory  rubbed 
fine;  add  rice  or. noodles  as  desired. 


340  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATa 

MusHBOOM  Soup. 

Take  a  good  quantity  of  mushrooms,  cut  off  the  earthy  end,  and 
pick  and  wash  them.  Stew  them  with  some  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt  in  a  little  good  stock  till  tender;  take  them  out,  and  chop  them 
up  quite  small;  prepare  a  good  stock  as  for  any  other  soup,  and 
add  it  to  the  mushrooms  and  the  liquor  they  have  been  stewed  in. 
Boil  all  together  and  serve.  If  white  soup  be  desired,  use  the 
white  button  mushrooms  and  a  good  veal  stock,  adding  a  spoonful 
of  cream  or  a  little  milk,  as  the  color  may  require. 

Noodles  for  Soup. 

B^at  one  egg  light;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  in  a  very  thin  sheet,  dredge  with  flour  to 
keep  from  sticking,  then  roll  up  tightly.  Begin  at  one  end  and 
shave  down  fine,  like  cabbage  for  slaw. 

Okba  Gumbo. 

Cut  one  chicken;  wash,  dry  and  flour  it  thoroughly;  salt  and 
pepper;  fry  very  brown  in  a  skillet  with  a  lump  of  lard  large  as  an 
egg.  Put  it  into  your  soup  kettle  with  five  quarts  of  water;  add 
one  onion  cut  up,  and  let  it  boil  two  hours;  add  two  dozen  okra 
pods,  and  let  it  boil  another  hour.  Season  to  taste  and  serve  with 
rice. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

Take  two  tails,  wash,  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  about  one  gallon 
of  cold  water  and  a  little  salt;  skim  off  the  broth.  When  the  meat 
is  well  cooked,  take  out  the  bones,  and  add  a  little  onion,  carrot 
and  tomatoes.  It  is  better  made  the  day  before  using,  so  that  the 
fat  can  be  taken  from  the  top.  Add  vegetables  next  day,  and  boil 
*n  hour  and  a  half  longer. 

Oyster  Soup. 

•rVo  qnart8  of  oysters,  three  pints  of  new  milk,  three  ounces  of 
hutter,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  tasta 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AKD  FORCEMEATS.  341 

and  mace,  if  liked.  Put  the  milk  over  boiling  water;  drain  the 
oysters  and  put  the  liquor  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove;  wash  the 
oysters  and  remove  every  particle  of  shell  that  may  adhere  to  them. 
When  the  milk  is  hot  add  the  butter  and  flour,  rubbed  smoothly 
together  and  thinned  with  a  little  of  the  milk;  let  it  cook,  stirring 
slowly,  until  slightly  thickened;  the  liquor,  which  must  be  well 
boiled,  skimmed  and  hot,  may  then  be  added,  and  after  that,  the 
drained  oysters.  As  soon  as  they  are  well  puffed  and  the  edges 
somewhat  curled,  serve  the  soup.  Half  a  pint  of  rich  cream  is  a 
great  improvement  and  may  be  used  instead  of  the  butter.  Serve 
with  them  a  plate  of  small  crackers,  crisped  in  the  oven. 

Potato  Soup. 

Boil  a  half  dozen  potatoes,  and  mash  thoroughly,  mixing  with  it 
a  quart  of  stock,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil  it  for  five 
minutes,  removing  scum;  add  to  this  a  tumblerful  of  milk  last,  and 
serve  after  the  soup  has  come  again  to  the  boil;  must  be  perfectly 
smooth. 

TiTBKET  Soup. 

Take  the  turkey  bones  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in 
^ater  enough  to  cover  them;  add  a  little  summer  savory  and  celery 
chopped  fine.  Just  before  serving,  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
(browned),  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter. 

SouTHBBN  Gumbo  Fela« 

Take  an  onion  and  cut  it  up  fine;  have  the  lar^  quite  hot,  then 
drop  the  onion  in  and  let  it  fry  a  light  brown;  dust  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  all  the  time  to  keep  from  burning,  and  in 
a  few  minutes  it  will  be  brown;  pour  in  boiling  water  as  much  as 
will  serve  the  family,  allowing  for  boiling  down;  have  a  nice  fat 
chicken  cut  up,  put  it  in  the  pot  and  let  it  boil  until  tender;  take  fifty 
oysters  from  th  liquor  and  strain  it  to  remove  all  pieces  of  shell; 
put  the  liquor  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  skim  and  put 
the  liquor  in  the  pot,  season  with  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  also  a 


342  80UPB,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATa 

small  piece  of  garlic;  after  letting  it  boil  some  time,  add  the 
oysters;  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fela  and  dust  in,  stirring  all  the 
tiine;  as  soon  as  it  boils  once  it  is  ready  to  serve;  always  serve  with 
boiled  rice. 

Fela  is  prepared  by  our  Indians,  and  is  simply  the  young  leaves 
of  the  sassafras,  dried  in  the  shade,  and  pulverized  with  a  few 
leaves  of  the  sweet  bay.  In  the  sunmier,  young  okra  pods  are 
used  in  place  of  fela. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Seven  good-sized  tomatoes  to  two  quarts  of  milk;  stew  and  sea- 
son tomatoes  highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  have  the  milk  hot;  break 
into  it  a  few  crackers;  stir  in  a  large  lump  of  butter;  pour  into  a 
tureen,  and  just  as  you  take  to  the  table,  add  tomatoes,  mixing 
them  well  together. 

Tomato  Soup,  No.  2. 
One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  onion,  two  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of  salt,  one-third  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  three  pints  or  water,  one-half  pint 
of  milk.  Boil  the  tomatoes  and  onion  in  water  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  butter,  and  flour;  rub 
smoothly  together  like  thin  cream;  boil  ten  minutes;  boil  milk 
separately.  When  both  are  boiling,  pour  the  milk  into  the  toma- 
toes, to  prevent  curdling.     Serve  with  squares  of  toasted  bread. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. 
A  glass  of  Madeira,  two  onions,  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  five  quarts  of  water.  Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the 
turtle  meat  with  the  entrails  and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quarts 
of  water,  and  stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper  and 
salt.  Stew  very  slowly,  but  do  not  let  it  cease  to  boil  during  this 
time.  At  the  end  of  four  hours  strain  the  soup,  and  add  the  finer 
parts  of  the  turtle  and  the  green  fat,  which  has  been  simmered  for 
one  hour  in  two  quarts  of  water.  Thicken  with  browned  flour; 
return  to  the  soup-pot,  and  simmer  gently  an  hour  longer.     If  there 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 


ii43 


are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for  foui' hours, 
and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up.  If  not,  put  in  force- 
meat balls;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  wine;  beat  up  once  and 
pour  out.  Some  cooks  add  the  finer  meat  before  straining,  boiling 
all  together  for  five  hours;  then  strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the 
green  fat,  cut  into  lumps  an  inch  long.  This  makes  a  handsomer 
soup  than  if  the  meat  is  left  in.  For  the  mock  eggs,  take, the  yolks 
of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten.  Rub  the 
boiled  eggs  into  a  paste  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  butter,  bind  with  a 
raw  egg,  roll  into  pellets  the  size  and  shape  of  turtle  eggs,  and  lay- 
in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes  before  dropping  into  the  soup. 

Soter's  Cheap  Soups. 
Soyer,  in  his  "  Culinary  Campaign,"  has  given  recipes  for  making 
palatable  soups,  which  he  says  will  not  cost  more  than  a  cent  a 
quart  in  London.  Here  is  one  of  them:  Take  two  ounces  of  drip- 
ping, quarter  of  a  pound  of  solid  meat,  cut  into  pieces  one  inch 
square;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  onions,  sliced  thin;  same  of  turnips 
(the  peel  will  do)  or  a  whole  one  cut  into  slices;  two  ounces  of  leeks 
(green  tops  will  do)  sliced  thin;  three  ounces  of  celery;  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  common  flour;  half  a  pound  of  pearl  barley, 
or  one  pound  of  Scotch;  three  ounces  of  salt;  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  brown  sugar;  two  gallons  of  water.  First  put  two  o.unces  of 
dripping  into  a  saucepan  capable  of  holding  two  gallons  of  water, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  leg-beef  without  bone,  cut  int<7 
square  pieces  of  about  an  inch;  and  two  middling-sized  onions, 
peeled  and  sliced;  then  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  the 
contents  around  for  a  few  minutes  with  a  wooden  or  iron  spoon 
until  fried  lightly  brown.  Have  then  ready  washed  the  peelings  of 
two  turnips,  fifteen  green  leaves  or  tops  of  celery,  and  the  green 
part  of  two  leeks  (the  whole  of  which,  I  must  observe,  are  always 
thrown  away).  Having  cut  the  above  vegetable  into  small  pieces, 
throw  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  other  ingredients,  stirring 
them  occasionally  over  the  fire  for  another  ten  minutes;  then  add 
one  quart  of  colc'j  water  and  three-quarters  of  a   pound  of   com- 


344         SOUPS.  SAUCES.  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

4ion  flour,  and  half  a  pound  of  pearl  barley,  mixing  all  well  together; 
zhen  add  seven  quarts  of  hot  water,  seasoned  with  three  ounces 
>f  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  brown  sugar,  stirring  occasion- 
ally until  boiling,  and  allowing  it  to  simmer  gently  for  three  hours; 
at  the  end  of  which  time  the  barley  will  be  perfectly  tender.  The 
above  soup  has  been  tasted  by  numerous  noblemen,  members  of 
Parliament,  and  several  ladies,  who  have  lately  visited  my  kitchen 
department,  and  who  have  considered  it  very  good  and  nourishing. 
The  soup  will  keep  several  days  when  made  as  above  described; 
but  I  must  observe,  not  to  keep  it  in  a  deep  pan,  but  within  a  flat 
vessel,  when  the  air  could  act  freely  upon  it.  Stir  it  now  and  then 
until  nearly  cold,  or  otherwise  the  next  day  it  will  be  in  a  state  of 
fermentation.  This  does  not  denote  the  weakness  of  the  soup, 
because  the  same  evil  exists  in  the  strongest  of  stock,  or  sauce,  if 
not  stirred  or  confined  in  a  warm  place — a  fact  known  to  every 
flrst-rate  cook.  The  expense  may  come  to  three  farthings  per  quart 
in  London;  but  as  almost  every  thing  can  be  had  at  less  cost  in  the 
country,  the  price  of  the  soup  will  be  still  more  reduced.  In  that 
case,  a  little  additional  meat  might  be  added.  By  giving  with  this 
a  small  portion  of  bread  or  biscuit,  better  support  would  be  given 
to  the  poor  at  a  trifling  cost;  and  no  one,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  here- 
after, would  hear  of  the  dreadful  calamity  of  starvation* 

Soup,  No.  2. — Same  Cost. 
Quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  cut  into  pieces  one  inch  square;  two 
ounces  of  dripping,  or  melted  suet,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  turnips, 
or  carrots,  cut  into  fragments  half  an  inch  square,  four  drops 
essence  of  meat,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  maize  flour,  three  ounces 
of  salt,  quarter  ounce  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  ground  fine.  Take  two  ounces  of  either  drippings,  Amer- 
ican lard,  or  suet,  to  which  add  the  turnips  and  carrots;  fry  for  ten 
minutes;  add  one  quart  of  cold  water,  and  the  meal,  well  mixed,* 
and  moisten  by  degrees  with  seven  quarts  of  hot  water;  boil  five 
hours,  and  season  with  three  ounces  of  salt,  one-quarter  ounce  of 
brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  two  drops  of  essence 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  345 

of  garlic,  one  drop  of  essence  of  mint,  a  little  celery;  stir  quickly, 
and  serve  directly. 
By  adding  a  pound  of  potatoes  to  this,  a  superior  soup  will  be 

the  result. 

Aspic  Jblly  for  Garnishing. 

Take  two  pints  of  nicely-flavored  stock,  of  a  clear,  firm  jelly; 
put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
vinegar  and  a  glass  of  sherry.  Let  it  boil;  then  stir  into  an  ounce 
of  the  best  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  cool  water. 
When  again  cool,  add  the  whisked  whites  of  two  eggs;  let  it  boil; 
then  set  back  to  settle;  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  until  quit.^  clear, 
and  pour  it  on  a  dish  which  has  been  standing  in  cold  watei.  Cut 
it  into  dice  for  garnishing. 

Aspic  Jkllt,  Stock. 

Put  a  knuckle-bone  of  veal,  a  knuckle-bone  of  ham,  a  cairs  foot,  a 
large  onion  with  four  cloves  stuck  in,  one  large  carrot,  and  a  bunch 
of  savory  herbs,  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  gently  till  it  is 
reduced  rather  more  than  half;  strain,  and  put  it  aside  to  cooL 
Very  carefully  remove  every  particle  of  fat  or  sediment,  and  place 
the  jelly  in  a  saucepan  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs; 
keep  stirring  until  it  nearly  boils,  which  may  be  known  by  its 
becoming  white;  then  draw  it  back  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  put  on  the  cover,  let  it  stand  to  settle, 
and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  until  it  is  quite  clear.  Put  it  into  a 
mold. 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

As  white  stock  is  the  foundation  of  this  sauce,  it  must  be  pre- 
pared first.  Boil  down  an  old  fowl,  two  or  three  pounds  of  the 
knuckles  of  veal  and  three  of  very  lean  ham,  with  four  carrots,  two 
onions,  one  blade  of  mace,>  some  white  pepper-corns,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  an  ounce  of  butter,  in  four  or  five  quarts  of 
water.     Cut  up  the  fowl  and  veal,  and  put  them  with  the  ham  to 


346  BOUM  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  * 

simmer  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  till  the  juices  are  extracted; 
then  put  in  the  full  quantity  of  water,  about  three  and  one-half 
quarts,  to  the  other  ingredients.  Let  the  liquid'  simmer  from  four 
to  five  hours;  skim  and  strain  till  clear,  when  it  is  ready  for  the 
bechamel.  Mix  a  tablespoonf ul  of  arrowroot  with  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  when  well  blended,  let  it  simmer  in  a  carefully  cleaned  pan  for 
four  or  five  minuves.  Make  one  pint  of  the  stock  hot  and  pour  it 
to  the  cream;  simmer  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens. 
If  too  thick,  add  a  little  stock. 

Anchovy  Saucb. 

An  easy  way  of  making  anchovy  sauce  is  to  stir  two  or  three 
teaspoonf  uls  of  prepared  essence  ^^  paste  of  anchovy  (which  may 
be  bought  at  your  grocers)  int  pint  of  melted  butter;  let  the 
sauce  boil  a  few  minutes  and  flavor  with  lemon- juice. 

Bread  Sauce. 

Take  one  pint  of  white  stock;  boil  with  an  onion,  a  little  mace, 
pepper-corns  and  salt;  strain  and  pour  it  over  six  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs;  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  add  three  tablespoonf  uls  of 
cream. 

Brown  Sauce. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  and  add  one  ounce 
of  flour,  stirring  until  it  is  of  a  brown  color.  Then  add  sufficient 
boiling  stock  to  render  it  of  a  crea|n-like  consistency,  and  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Cucumber  Sauce. 

Take  three  young  cucumbers,  slice  them  rather  thickly,  and  fry 
them  in  a  little  butter  till  they  are  lightly  browned;  dredge  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  simmer  them  till  tender 
in  as  much  good  brown  gravy  as  will  cover  them.  White  sauce  or 
melted  butter  may  be  substituted  for  the  gravy  if  these  are  more 
suitable  to  the  dish  with  which  the  cucumber  sauce  is  to  be  served. 
Time,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  simmer  the  cucumbers. 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  347 

Chili  Sauce. 

Twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  pared,  two  large  peppers,  chopped  fine, 
one  large  onion,  chopped  fine,  two  cups  of  vinegar,*  one  tablespoon, 
ful  salt,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  allspice,, 
nutmeg,  cloves,  and  ginger.     Boil  all  together. 

Capbb  SAubs. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonfid  of  flour;  mix 
well;  pour  on  boiling  water  until  it  thickens;  add  one  hard-boiled 
egg,  chopped  fine,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 

Celery  Saijcb. 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  melt  it,  and  add  two 
heads  of  celery  cut  up  into  inch  pieces;  stir  the  celery  in  the  pan 
till  it  is  quite  tender;  add  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  mace.  Mix 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  cup  of  stock  and  simmer  half  an  hour, 
A  cup  of  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  stock. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Take  yolks  of  two  eggs,  boiled  hard;  mash  them  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  and  three  of  salad  oil.  A  tablespoonful  of  catsup 
improves  this  for  some.     This  sauce  is  very  nice  for  boiled  fish. 

Pish  Sauce. 

One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
finely-chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  two 
lemons.     Cream  the  butter;  mix  all  well  together. 

The  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

For  one  pint:  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  same  of  butter  and  flour; 
put  them  in  a  sauce|)an  and  put  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  the 
butter  is  melted.  Add  gradually  one  pint  of  hot  water,  about  half 
a  cup  at  a  time,  and  stir  each  time  for  a  minute  while  it  is  boiling; 
season  with  white  pepper,  nutmeg,   and  make  sure  it  is  cooked. 


348  SOUPS.  SiiUCES.  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

One  great  difficulty  with  sauces  is  they  are  raw.  This  makes  the 
white  sauce,  which  is  the  basis  of  many  sauces.  Add  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  or  vinegar; 
three  tablespoon fuls  of  salad  oil.  These  niay  be  added  by  putting 
them  together  in  a  separate  dish  and  dipping  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
the  white  sauce  upon  them  and  stirring  thoroughly,  and  then  pour- 
ing back  into  the  sauce.  In  this  consistency  the  sauce  makes  a  fine 
di^essing  for  lobster  or  chicken  salad.  This  sauce  is  suitable  for 
any  kind  of  boiled  fish. 

Hot  Saucs  for  Mbats. 

Four  onions,  two  cups  of  sugar,  thirty-two  tomatoes,  one  quart 
of  vinegar,  four  peppers,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  red  pepper;  cook,  strain  and  bottle. 

Hobse-Radish  Saucb. 

» 

Two  teaspoonf  uls  of  made  mustard,  two  of  white  sugar,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  gill  of  vinegar;  mix  and  pour  over 
grated  horse-radish.     Excellent  with  beef. 

MUSHBOOM   SaUCB. 

To  make  a  pint  of  mushroom  sauce  for  the  fillet  of  beef,  use  one 
tablespoonful  of  butteirand  one  of  flour;  put  over  the  fire  and  stir 
until  brown.  Then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water  or  chicken  broth 
and  half  a  pint  of  essence  of  mushroom  or  the  liquor  found  in  a  can 
of  mushrooms;  stir  till  the  sauce  is  perfectly  smooth,  season  with  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonf ul  of  pepper.  Put 
in  the  mushrooms  and  boil  two  minutes;  take  off,  put  in  a  glass  of 
sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  and  pour  around  the  fillet  of  beef. 

Mint  Saucb. 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  to  half  a  cup  of  good  vin- 
egar; add  the  mint  and  let  it  infuse  for  half  an  hour  before  sending 
to  the  table.     Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 


BOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  PORCJElMEATa  349 

« 

MUSTABD   SaUCB. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  but- 
ter, four  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard;  beat  the  eggs 
well;  mix  all  together;  turn  into  a  new  tin  pail  or  basin  and  boil  in 
water  same  as  custard,  only  to  a  cream,  not  thick.  Strain  through 
a  thin  cloth  and  it  is  done. 

Pbbpasbd  Mustabd. 

Two  tablespoonf uls  of  mustard,  one  of  flour;  mix  thoroughly 
while  dry.  Have  a  cup  two-thirds  full  of  strong  vinegar ;  fill  with 
water,  stir  the  flour  and  mustard  into  it  and  let  it  boil  until  as  thick 
as  custard;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Mads  Mustabd. 

Pour  a  very  little  boiling  water  over  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard;  add  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil, 
stirred  slowly  in,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  add  the  yolk  of 
an  egg;  beat  well  together,  and  pour  in  vinegar  to  taste.  It  is  best 
eaten  next  day. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

A  mixture  of  egg  yolks,  oil,  vinegar  or  lemon-juice.  The  prin- 
cipal point  to  be  attended  to  in  preparing  this  sauce  is  the  mode  of 
mixing,  which  demiands  time,  patience  and  care.  Break  the  yolk 
of  a  fresh  egg  into  a  bowl  with  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and 
salt  mixed.  Beat  it  till  thick,  then  add  from  time  to  time 
during  the  mixing,  two  or  three  drops  of  the  best  olive  oil  until 
about  four  ounces  have  been  used  and  the  mixture  is  thick  and 
yellow.  *  When  eight  teaspoonf  uls  of  oil  have  been  used,  stir  in  one 
teaspoonful  'of  white  wine  vinegar,  and  continue  adding  oil  and 
vinegar  .in  these  proportions  until  all  the  oil  is  used.  The  yolk  of 
one  egg  would  be  sufficient  for  a  pint  of  oil  and  vinegar  in  propor- 
tion. The  addition  of  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  makes  mayon- 
naise look  creamy.  Mayonnaise  will  keep  a  long  time  if  bottled 
closely  and  kept  in  a  cool  place. 


i 


% 


350  80UP8,  6AUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

Mattrb  d'Hotkl  Buttkb. 

Knead  together  (on  a  plate  with  the  point  of  a  knife)  equal 
quantities  of  chopped  parsley  and  fresh  butter.  Add  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  lemon-juice.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  When  a  dish  is 
43aid  to  be  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel  it  is  generally  served  with  this  butter. 

Mattrb  d'Hotel  Sauce. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  in  a  small  enameled  saucepan, 
iind  stir  to  it,  by  degrees,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  flour;  continue  stir- 
ring five  or  ten  minutes,  until  the  butter  and  flour  are  well  blended, 
when  add,  also  by  degrees,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  veal  stock,  also  boiling;  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  each  at  a  time  and  stir  well,  allowing  the  sauce  to 
simmer  a  minute  or  two  between  each  addition.  When  perfectly 
smooth,  put  in  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon,  or,  if  preferred,  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  Chili  vinegar,  a  little  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  The  yolks  of  two  eggs  are  a 
great  improvement  to  this  sauce,  and  are  almost  necessary  when  it 
is  served  with  fish;  but  in  that  case  only  half  the  quantity  of  flour 
should  be  used,  as  the  eggs  help  to  thicken  it. 

Oystbb  Sauce. 

Prepare  some  nice  drawn  butter;  scald  the  oysters  in  a  little 
water  and  mix  them  with  the  butter;  mix  well  and  let  the  sauce 
come  nearly  to  a  boil,  after  which  serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Old  Cubbant  Sauce  fob  Venison. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  dried  currants  in  half  a  pintof  water,  a  few 
minutes;  add  a  small  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  six  cloves,  a  glass  of 
port  wine  and  a  bit  of  butter.     Stir  it  till  the  whole  is  smooth. 

Piquant  Sauce. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  over  a 
moderate  fire.  Throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  and 
stir  them  about  for  two  minutes,  sprinkle  a  teaspoonf ul  of  flour  over 


rr     ' 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.  361 

them,  and  beat  it  with  a  wooden  or  iron  spoon  to  prevent  it  from 
getting  into  lumps.  Add  half  a  pint  of  stock  or  broth,  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  Cayenne.  Simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
lift  out  the  herbs,  pour  in  half  a  wineglassf ul  of  vinegar,  and  add  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  if  required;  let  all  boil  up  together  and  serve. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Nine  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  small,  red  pepper  chopped 
fine,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonf  uls  brown  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  all- 
spice; put  vinegar  in  last;  stew  one  hour. 

Almond  Forcemeat. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good 
•cream,  and  flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg.  Blanch  and  pound  in  a 
mortar  three  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  using  white  of  egg  to 
moisten.  Add  these  with  three-quarters  of  a  poimd  of  light  bread 
crumbs,  and  three  ounces  of  butter  brqken  into  small  bits,  to  the 
egg  mixture.  Stir  in,  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whisked  to  a 
solid  froth,  and  fill  either  capon  or  turkey. 

Forcemeat  Balls. 
Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  a  little  lemon  peel,  and 
parsley.  Mix  with  a  basin  of  bread  crumbs,  and  flavor  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  nutmeg.  Moisten  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  roll  in 
flour,  and  make  up  into  small  balls.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  or  fry  till 
crisp.  This  recipe  will  do  for  fowls.  The  addition  of  a  little  ham, 
chopped  or  pounded,  will  be  found  a  considerable  improvement.  . 

Chestnut  Forcemeat. 

Remove  the  outer  skin  from  some  chestnuts  (they  should  be  ripe 
and  sound).  Boil  them  for  two  or  three  minutes  to  get  oflf  the 
inner  skin.  Peel  them,  and  to  preserve  their  color  throw  them  into 
cold  water;  drain  and  weigh  them.  Stew  six  ounces  of  them 
gently  for  about  twenty  minutes  id  veal  gravy.     Let  them  get  cold. 


852  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

pound  them  till  smooth  with  an  equal  quantity  of  butter,  or  half 
their  weight  in  fat  bacon,  and  add  two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
a  little  salt,  lemon  rind,  and  nutmeg.  Bind  the  mixture  together 
with  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  If  this  forcemeat  is  formed 
into  cakes,  these  should  be  dipped  into  flour  before  being  fried. 

Forcemeat  foe  Fish,  Soups  and  Stews. 
ji'ound  the  flesh  of  a  medium-sized  lobster,  half  an  anchovy,  a 
piece  of  boiled  celery,  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  salt,  pepper, 
and  Cayenne  to  taste.  Mix  these  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  of  raw  eggs.  Make  into 
small  balls,  and  fry  a  pale  brown  in  butter.  Two  or  three  oysters- 
may  be  added. 

FOSCEMEAT  FOR   GaME. 

Take  the  livers  of  the  game  and  pound  them  with  half  their 
weight  of  beef  suet  and  good  fat  bacon,  mixed  together;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  ground  cloves.  Use  a  little  of  the  meat  of 
the  game  if  enough  of  the  livers  cannot  be  obtained;  moisten  with 
cream,  and  bind  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  If  the  forcemeat  be 
required  stiff,  stew  over  a  gentle  fire,  keeping  it  constantly  stirred 
until  the  proper  consistency  is  gained. 

Forcemeat  for  Turkeys. 
Take  equal  quantities  of  lean  veal  and  pork,  and  mince  them  finely 
together;  also  cut  into  pieces  a  parboiled  veal  sweetbread,  and  mix 
with  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  each  of  the  former  meats. 
Add  half  a  pound  of  bread,  soaked,  and  the  same  amount  of  warm 
butter.  Flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper  and  half  an  ounce 
of  grated  lemon  rind.  Bind  with  three  beaten  eggs,  and  fill  the 
turkey. 

Mushroom  Forcemeat. 

Procure  four  ounces  of  young,  fresh  mushrooms.  Peel  them,  cut 
off  the  stems.  Dissolve  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  let 
them  simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire,  with  a  slight  flavoring  of 
mace  and  Cayenne.     Spread  them  over  a  dish  placed  in  a  slantinp 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  FORCEMEATS.         36;^ 

position  to  drain  away  the  moisture.  When  cold  mince  them,  and 
add  four  ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  small  seasoning  of  salt, 
Cayenne,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  a  piece  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Put  in  as  much  of  the  mushroom  gravy  as  will  make  the 
forcemeat  of  the  proper  consistency.  Make  into  balls,  poach  and' 
throw  into  soup;  or  fry,  and  serve  round  a  dish  of  roast  fowl  or 
minced  veal.     It  is  also  a  good  stuffing  for  boiled  fowls. 

Oyster  Fobcembat. 

Get  fresh  oysters  and  cut  them  into  quarters.  Grate  bread 
epough  to  fill  half  a  pint,  and  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  finely  shred 
Buet  or  butter,  which  should  be  broken  into  bits.  Mix  all  these 
ingredients  together  with  a  good  flavoring  of  herbs,  and  a  seasoning 
of  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
This  forcemeat  is  for  boiled  or  roast  turkey.  It  may  be  made  into 
balls  and  used  as  a  garnish.  Twenty  oysters  are  sufficient  for  one 
turkey. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

FURNITURE. 
/ 

PUBMnTUBK   COTEB8. 

[OTHING  gives  so  dismal  and  unbospitable  an  appearance  to  a 
room  as  to  have  the  chairs  and  sofa  or  couch  covered  with 
stiff  unfriendly-looking  linen;  but  pretty  furniture  that  is 
used  every  day  must  be  protected  in  some  way,  and  there  are  many 
coverings  which  are  really  ornamental.  For  instance,  a  couch  may 
be  kept  from  fading  by  taking  a  piece  of  Turkish  toweling  the 
required  length — ^that  is,  a  little  longer  than  the  couch,  so  that  it 
will  fall  over  the  ends,  and  not  slide  down  and  wrinkle;  put  scallops 
of  flannel  on  the  edge.  A  border  or  centre-piece,  or  simply  a  vine 
worked  in  some  bright  color  across  the  ends,  make  a  pretty  addi- 
tion to  it.  Tidies  that  are  very  serviceable  may  be  made  of  brown 
linen  with  an  applique  stripe  of  cretonne  flowers.  The  easiest  and 
most  satisfactory  way  to  prepare  cretonne  for  transferring  is  to  first 
work  the  figure  which  is  to  be  cut  out  with  the  button-hole  stitch, 
and  then  cut  around  that.  When  it  is  placed  upon  broadcloth,  or 
any  material  which  will  not  require  washing,  sew  it  with  long 
stitches  on  the  wrong  side;  but  when  transferred  to  linen,  sew  it 
firmly,  so  that  it  will  keep  its  place  when  washed.  The  tidies  may 
be  finished  by  putting  fringe  or  yellow  lace  across  the  ends;  turn 
down  and  hem  on  the  sides,  and  feather-stitch  with  worsted  or 
working  cotton  or  silk. 

The  Usb  of  Varnish. 
No  one  knows  until  she  has  tried  it  how  much  she  may  change 
the  aspect  of  things  about  the  house  by  using  a  little  varnish.     On 

8M 


V 


FURNITURR  865 

a  sunshiny  day  take  the  old  chairs  and  tables  out  on  the  porch,  or 
by  an  open  door,  and  after  thoroughly  dusting  and  wiping  off  with 
a  damp  cloth,  apply  a  thin  coat  of  varnish,  and  so  cover  Up  scratches 
and  marred  spots  of  all  kinds.  It  will  dry  in  a  very  short  time,  and 
you  will  be  surprised  to  see  how  much  good  you  have  done.  A 
flannel  cloth  wi.h  a  very  little  linseed  oil  is  good  to  rub  furniture 
with,  but  the  greatest  care  must  be  exercised  to  prevent  any  oil 
being  left  on  the  wood  to  attract  dust.  It  must  be  rubbed  until 
you  would  not  know,  except  by  the  improved  appearance,  that  any 
oil  had  been  used.  ' 

How  TO,  Make  an  Ottoman. 

A  neat  and  useful  ottoman  may  be  made  by  taking  a  box  in  which 
fine-cut  tobacco  is  packed,  and  covering  it  with  cretonne.  The  top 
may  be  taken  off  and  put  on  without  difficulty  if,  after  covering,  a 
narrow  ruffle  to  fall  over  the  edge  is  tacked  on.  An  ottoman  of 
this  sort  is  convenient  in  the  bedroom,  where  it  may  serve  as  a 
receptacle  for  stockings.  •  If  one  does  not  care  to  buy  cretonne,  bits 
of  carpet  may  be  used  for  the  covering.  Burlap  also  makes  a  pretty 
cover,  worked  in  some  simple  but  showy  pattern. 

To  Bbnbbb  Nbw  Mahogany  like  Old. 

This  is  of  service  in  the  case  of  furniture  repaired,  or  when 
lacquered  handles  have  been  changed  for  mahogany  ones.  Soap  and 
water  will  darken  to  some  extent;  but  if  darker  is  required,  use  oil; 
or  for  very  dark,  use  lime-water. 

To  Clean  FuENrrtTBE. 

The  cleaning  of  furniture  should  depend  on  the  mode  in  which 
the  furniture  was  originally  polished.  The  method  at  present  most 
generally  adapted  is  French  polishing  and  in  such  cases  a  little 
spirits  of  turpentine  should  be  employed,  which  will  clean  off  grease 
a.  1  dirt  without  softening  the  varnish;  it  should,  however,  be 
rapidly  done.  If  the  furniture  was  originally  polished  with  furni- 
ture paste  (composed  of  bees'-wax  dissolved  in  spirits  of  tui*pentine 


356  FURNITURE. 

by  means  of  heat,  and  a  little  copal  varnish,  or  finely-powdered 
rosin,  with  a  little  Indian  red  added)  it  should  be  renovated  by  the 
same  means.  In  the  case  of  furniture  polished  with  oil,  renovating 
should  be  effected  by  means  of  linseed  oil,  slightly  colored  by  a 
little  alkanet  root»  which  dissolves  in  oil,  aided  by  slight  heat. 

DiBTY  OB  SxAnrED  PuBNinrBE. 

If  the  furniture  is  in  a  bad  state,  but  not  stained,  it  will  be  suffi- 
cient to  clean  it  by  washing  it  well  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  and 
afterwards  polishing  with  linseed  oil  colored  with  alkanet  root 
When,  however,  the  furniture  is  stained  or  inky,  it  should  be 
washed  with  sour  beer  or  vinegar,  warm;  afterwards  rubbing  the 
stains  with  spirits  of  salts,  rubbed  on  with  a  piece  of  rag,  which 
will  remove  all  the  stains.  The  wood  may  then  be  polished,  either 
with  linseed  oil  colored  with  alkanet  root,  or  with  bees'-wax  dis- 
solved in  turpentine,  with  a  little  cold  varnish  or  rosin  added. 

To  Cleait  Paint. 

Provide  a  plate  with  some  of  the  best  whiting  to  be  had,  and 
have  ready  some  clean  warm  water  and  a  piece  of  flannel,  which 
dip  into  the  water  and  squeeze  nearly  dry;  then  take  as  much 
whiting  as  will  adhere  to  it,  apply  it  to  the  ^taihted  surface,  when 
a  little  rubbing  will  instantly  remove  any  dirt  or  grease.  After 
which,  wash  the  part  well  with  clean  water,  rubbing  it  dry  with  a 
soft  chamois.  Paint  thus  cleaned  looks  as  well  as  when  first  laid 
on,  without  injury  to  the  most  delicate  colors.  It  is  far  better  than 
using  soap,  and  does  not  require  more  than  half  the  time  and  labor. 

To  Make  Gluk. 

The  glue,  as  bought,  should  be  broken  up  small,  first  cov- 
ered with  cold  water,  and  allowed  to  soak  for  a  few  hours.  It 
should  then  be  placed  near  the  fire,  and  allowed  to  simmer.  The 
addition  of  a  few  drops  of  linseed  oil  will  improve  it;  and,  when 
made,  it  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  as  damp  will  destroy  its 
tenacitv  and  render  it  useless. 


FURNITURE.  357 

To  Revive  Gilt  Frames. 

One  ounce  of  soda  beaten  up  with  the  whites  of  three  ounces  of 
eggs.  Blow  off  the  dust  with  a  pair  of  bellows  from  the  frames, 
then  wash  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  in  this  mixture,  and  this 
will  render  them  fresh  and  bright. 

Magic  Furnitubb  Polish. 

Half  pint  alcohol,  half  ounce  rosin,  half  ounce  gum-shellac,  a  few 
drops  aniline  brown;  let  stand  over  night  and  add  three-fourths 
pint  of  raw  linseed  oil  and  half  a  pint  of  spirits  turpentine;  shake 
well  before  using.  Apply  with  cotton  flannel,  and  rub  dry  with 
another  cloth. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

HOUSE   PESTS. 


Camphor,  a  Rembdt  for  Mice. 

Any  one  deeirous  of  keeping  seeds  from  the  depredations  of  mice, 

«n  do  so  by  mixing  pieces  of  camphor  gum  in  wilh  the  seedH. 


HOUSE  PESTS.  359 

Camphor  placed  in  drawers  or  trunks  will  prevent  mice  from  doing 
them  injury.  The  little  animal  objects  to  the  odor,  and  keeps  a 
good  distance  from  it.     He  will  seek  food  elsewhere. 

Rats — ^To  Deive  away  Alive. 
If  you  choose  to  drive  them  away  alive,  take  potash,  pulverized, 
and  put  quite  plenty  of  it  into  all  their  holes  about  the  house.  If 
the  potash  is  pulverized  and  left  in  the  air,  it  becomes  pasty;  then 
it  can  be  daubed  on  the  boards  or  planks,  where  they  come  through 
into  rooms. 

How  TO  Deal  with  Rats. 

A  writer  in  the  Scientific  American  says:  "  We  clean  our  prem- 
ises of  these  detestable  vermin  by  making  whitewash  yellow  with 
copperas  and  covering  the  stones  and  rafters  in  the  cellars  with  it. 
In  every  crevice  in  which  a  rat  may  go  we  put  the  crystals  of  the 
•opperas  and  scatter  in  the  comers  of  the  floor.  The  result  was  a 
perfect  stampede  of  rats  and  mice.  Since  that  time  not  a  footfall 
of  either  rats  or  mice  has  been  around  the  house.  Every  spring  a 
•oat  of  the  yellow  wash  is  given  the  cellar,  as  a  purifier,  and  a  rat 
exterminator,  and  no  typhoid,  dysentery  or  fevers  attacks  the 
family.  Many  persons  deliberately  Attract  all  the  rats  in  the 
neighborhood  by  leaving  fruits  and  vegetables  uncovered  in  the 
cellar,  and  sometimes  even  the  soap  is  left  open  for  their  regale- 
ment. Cover  up  everything  eatable  in  the  cellar  and  pantry,  and 
you  will  soon  starve  them  out.  These  precautions,  joined  to  the 
service  of  a  good  cat,  will  prove  as  good  a  rat  exterminator  as  the 
chemist  can  provide.  We  never  allow  rats  to  be  poisoned  in  our 
dwelling,  they  are  so  apt  to  die  between  the  walls  and  produce 
much  annoyance." 

To  Destkoy  Bed  Bugs,  Moths,  and  Other  Vermin. 

Dissolve  alum  in  hot  water,  making  a  very  strong  solution;  apply 

to  furniture  or  crevices  in  the  walls  with  a  paint  brush.     This  is  sure 

destruction  to  those  noxious  vermin,  and  invaluable  because  easily 

obtained,  is  perfectly  safe  to  use,  and  leaves  no  unpleasant  traces 


860  HOUSE  PESTS. 

behind.  When  70a  suspect  moths  have  lodged  in  the  borders  of 
carpets,  wet  the  edges  of  the  carpets  with  a  strong  solution;  when- 
ever it  reaches  them,  it  is  certain  death. 

Hellebore,  rubbed  over  with  molasses,  and  put  round  the  places 
that  cockroaches  frequent,  is  a  very  effectual  poison  for  them. 

Arsenic,  spread  on  bread  and  butter,  and  placed  round  rat  or 
mouse  holes,  will  soon  put  a  stop  to  their  ravages. 

Quicksilver  and  the  white  of  an  egg^  beat  together,  and  laid  with 
a  feather  round  the  crevices  of  the  bedsteads  and  the  sacking,  is 
very  effectual  in  destroying  bugs  in  them. 

To  kill  flies,  when  so  numerous  as  to  be  troublesome,  keep  cobalt, 
wet  with  spirit,  in  a  large  shallow  plate.  The  spirit  will  attract 
the  flies,  and  the  cobalt  will  kill  them  very  soon^  Black  pepper  is 
said  to  be  good  to  destroy  them;  it  should  be  mixed,  so  as  to  be 
very  strong,  with  a  little  cream  and  sugar. 

Great  care  is  necessary  in  using  the  above  poisons,  where  there 
are  any  children,  as  they  are  so  apt  to  eat  anything  that  comes  im 
their  way,  and  these  poisons  will  prove  as  fatal  to  them  as  to  ver- 
min (excepting  the  pepper). 

The  flour  of  sulphur  is  said  to  be  good  to  drive  ants  away,  if 
sprinkled  round  the  places  that  they  frequent.     Sage  is  also  good. 

Weak  brine  will  kill  worms  in  gravel  walks,  if  kept  moist  with  it 
a  week  in  the  spring,  and  three  or  four  days  in  the  fall. 

Cedar  chests  are  best  to  keep  flannels,  for  cloth  moths  are  never 
found  in  them.  Red  cedar  chips  are  good  to  keep  in  drawers, 
wardrobes,  closets,  trunks,  etc.,  to  keep  out  moths. 

To  Prevent  Red  Ants. 
Put  one  pint  of  tar  in  an  earthen  vessel,  pour  on  it  two  quarts  of 
boiling  hot  water,  and  place  it  in  your  closet. 

How  TO  Get  Rid  of  Flies. 

A  clergyman,  writing  from  Ireland,  says:  "For  three  years  I 
have  lived  in  town,  and  during  that  time  my  sitting  room  has  been 
free  from  flies,  three  or  four  only  walking  about  my  breakfast  table, 


HOUSB  PESTS.  861 

while  all  my  neighbors'  rooms  were  crowded.  I  often  congrata- 
lated  myself  on  my  escape,  but  never  knew  the  reason  of  it  until 
two  days  ago.  I  then  had  occasion  to  remove  my  goods  to  another 
house,  while  I  remained  on  for  two  days  longer.  Among  other 
things  moved  were  two  boxes  of  geraniums  and  calceolarias,  which 
stood  in  my  window,  the  latter  always  being  open  to  its  full  extent 
top  and  bottom.  The  boxes  were  not  gone  half  an  hour  before  my 
room  was  as  full  of  flies  as  those  around  me.  This,  to  me,  is  a  new 
discovery,  and  perhaps  it  may  serve  to  encourage  others  in  that 
which  is  always  a  source  of  pleasure,  and  which  now  proves  also  to 
be  a  source  of  comfort,  viz.,  window  gardening." 

MosQinross. 

Mr.  Ivers  W.  Adams  writes  from  Bathurst,  N.  B.,  to  Forest  and 
Streaniy  that  he  tried  a  dozen  prescriptions  for  repelling  mosquitoes, 
flies,  and  similar  pests,  and  found  none  of  them  effective  until  he 
came  across  the  following,  which  are  dead  sure  every  time: 

"Three  ounces  sweet  oil,  one  ounce  carbolic  acid.  Let  it  be 
thoroughly  applied  upon  hands,  face,  and  all  exposed  parts  (care- 
fully avoiding  the  eyes)  once  every  half  hour,  when  flies  are 
troublesome,  or  for  the  first  two  or  three  days,  until  the  skin  is 
filled  with  it,  and  after  this  its  application  will  be  necessary  only 
occasionally.  Another  receipt,  equally  efficacious,  is:  Six  parts 
sweet  oil,  one  part  creosote,  one  part  pennyroyal.  Either  of  these  is 
agreeable  to  use,  and  in  no  way  injurious  to  the  skin.  We  have 
both  of  these  in  our  camp  with  us,  and  all  flies  keep  a  safe  distance.* 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 


TOILET. 


Clbanikg  Gloybs. 

/N  excellent  preparation  for  cleaning  gloves  can  be  bought  for  » 
small  sum  at  any  drug  store:  Get  one  quart  of  deodorized 
benzine,  one  drachm  of  sulphuric  ether,  one  drachm  -chloro- 
form, and  two  drachms  alcohol.  Cologne  water  can  be  added  if 
desired.  Pour  a  little  of  this  into  a  clean  bowl,  and  wash  the  gloves 
in  it  as  you  would  wash  anything.  After  the  dirt  is  nearly  out, 
rinse  in  more  of  the  clean  fluid.  Usually  one  rinsing  is  enough,  but 
if  the  gloves  are  very  much  soiled,  rinse  the  second  time.  If  the 
gloves  are  of  cheap  kid  it  is  best  to  dry  them  on  the  hands,  but  a 
nice  glove,  after  having  been  rubbed  with  a  soft  cloth  to  smooth  out 
the  wrinkles,  may  be  hung  on  a  line  to  dry.  This  preparation  is  an 
excellent  thing  to  keep  in  the  house,  not  only  for  cleaning  gloves, 
but  for  taking  out  grease  spots  from  carpets  and  clothing,  and  for 
sponging  coat  collars  and  felt  hats. 

Hair  Recetvsbs. 

The  little  Japanese  parasols,  which  can  be  bought  for  four  or  five 
cents,  make  very  pretty  hair  receivers.  Open  them  about  half  their 
extent;  if  necessary  to  make  them  stay  half  open,  catch  them  with 
a  few  stitches.  Put  a  loop  of  ribbon  around  the  handle  and  hang 
ihem  up. 

ToiLKT  Cushions. 

Pretty  covers  for  toilet  cushions  can  be  made  of  bits  of  muslin 
and  lace  that  are  no^  large  enough  to  do  anything  else  with.  First 
make  the  cushion;  fill  it  with  sawdust  which  has  been  heated  imtil 


.      V 


TOILET. 


363 


it  is  perfectly  dry,  otherwise  the  sawdast  will  shrink  and  the 
cushion  be  spoiled.  Sawdust  is  preferable  to  bran,  for  there  is 
danger  of  mice  destroying  the  cushion  if  it  is  filled  with  bran. 
Cover  the  cushion  with  silk,  or  even  pretty  cambric  or  cashmere 
will  do.  Then  make  a  square  of  the  little  pieces  of  laco  and  muslin 
and  put  over.  Finish  the  cushion  with  a  muslin  ruffle  edged  with 
narrow  Italian  lace,  which  costs  a  few  cents  a  yard 

Shaving  Casbs. 

The  prettiest  shaving  cases  I  haye  ever  seen  are  made  by  using 
for  a  foundation  little  Japanese  paper  fans.  Cover  the  fan  with 
silk  or  silesia,  or  combine;  cut  a  piece  of  pasteboard  the  size  of  the 
fan,  and,  as  this  is  to  be  the  outside  of  the  case,  cover  it  with  silk 
or  satin,  trim  the  edge  with  narrow  lace  or  with  plaited  ribbon,, 
ornament  it  with  a  bow,  or  paint  a  spray  of  flowers  on  it,  or  put  on 
neatly  a  pretty  transfer  picture,  or  an  initial,  according  to  the 
means  and  taste  of  the  maker.  Fasten  the  paper  leaves  which  may 
be  pinked  to  the  fan  part,  and  then  put  on  the  cover,  catching  it 
with  silk  to  the  upper  part  of  the  fan  near  the  handle.  Put  a  loop 
of  ribbon  or  chenille  at  the  end  of  the  handle  to  hang  it  up  by. 
This  is  an  acceptable  gift  for  a  gentleman. 

To  ChEA2s  Hatb-Bbushes  and  Combs. 

Dissolve  potash  in  boiling  water,  and  rub  the  brush  with  soap; 
dip  the  brush  into  the  solution,  and  draw  *it  through  the  comb 
frequently,  taking  care  to  keep  the  wood  dry.  Lastly,  rinse  the 
hair  in  cold  water,  and  dry;  or,  use  spirits  of  ammonia  and  hot 
water;  wash  them  well  and  shake  the  water  out,  drying  on  a  coarse 
towel;  they  will  look  white  and  clean  as  new.  Little  or  no  soap  is 
needed. 

To  Clean  Jewelbt. 

Wash  in  soap  suds;  rinse  in  diluted  alcohol,  and  lay  in  a  box  of 
dry  sawdust  to  dry.  As  simple  as  this  seems,  it  is  the  very  nicest 
way  possible  to  clean  gold  chains  or  ornaments  of  any  kind. 


364  TOILET. 

CoiiOGNE    WaTKE. 

One  drachm  oil  lavender,  one  drachm  oil  bergamot,  two  drachmfl 
oil  lemon,  two  drachms  oil  rosemary,  fifty  drops  tincture  of  musk, 
eight  drops  oil  of  cinnamon,  eight  drops  oil  of  cloves,  one  pint  of 
alcohol. 

CoLOQKB  Wat^b,  No  2. 

Take  of  essence  of  bergamot  and  of  citron  each  five  drachms, 
essence  of  lemon  four  drachms,  essence  of  rosemary  two  and  one- 
half  drachms,  essence  of  orange  flower  three  drops,  alcohol  one 
quart;  mix  together.  Those  who  prefec  a  fuller  perfume  may  add 
five  drachms  of  lavender. 

Gold  Obbam. 

Take  of  the  oil  of  almonds  two  ounces,  of  spermaceti  half  an 
ounce,  and  white  wax  half  an  ounce.  Put  them  in  a  close  vessel, 
and  set  the  vessel  in  a  skillet  of  boiling  water.  When  melted,  beat 
the  ingredients  with  rosewater  until  cold.  Keep  it  in  a  tight  box, 
QT  wide-mouthed  bottle,  corked  up  close. 

Lip  Salvb. 

Dissolve  a  small  lump  of  white  sugar  in  a  tablespoonf ul  of  rose- 
water  (common  water  will  do,  but  is  not  so  good).  Mix  it  with  a 
couple  of  large  spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  a  piece  of  spermaceti,  of  the 
size  of  half  a  butternut.  Simmer  the  whole  well  together  eight  or 
ten  minutes,  then  turn  it  into  a  small  box. 

Lavbndbb  Wateb. 

Take  one  pint  of  spirits  of  wine,  one-half  ounce  of  lavender  oil, 
one-half  ounce  of  bergamot,  one  shilling's  worth  of  musk;  mix  all 
together  in  a  bottle,  and  shake  it  occasionally.  The  longer  it  is 
kept  the  better  it  becomes. 

To  Clean  Gk)LD  Chains. 

Let  the  article  required  to  be  cleaned,  stand  for  some  time  in  a 
solution  of  caustic  potash,  until  all  the  adhering  dirt  is  removed. 


TOILET.  366 

It  should  then  be  taken  oat  of  the  water  with  a  piece  of  stick,  and 
rinsed  in  a  large  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  placed  on  a  soft  clean 
oloth  to  dry.  This  method  must  not  be  used  for  rings  or  other 
articles  that  contain  jewels,  either  gems  or  paste,  or  the  silica, 
which  is  the  principal  ingredient  in  their  composition,  would  be 
corroded  by  the  potash. 

To  Clean  Gilt  Jewslby. 

Wash  the  brooch,  earrings,  etc.,  with  soap  and  water;  rinse,  and 
with  a  small,  soft  brush  wash  the  article  with  spirits  of  hartshorn. 

To  Remove  a  Tight  Rikg. 

If  the  finger  on  which  the  ring  has  been  placed  has  swollen,  and 
there  seems  a  difficulty  of  removing  the  ring,  pass  a  needle  and 
eotton  under  it,  pull  the  cotton  up  towards  the  hand  and 
twist  the  remaining  cottou  round  the  finger  several  times  until 
it  reaches  the  nail.  By  taking  hold  of  the  end  nearest  the  hand  it 
is  generally  an  easy  matter  to  slide  the  ring  off  the  finger,  however 
much  difficulty  there  may  have  appeared  in  doing  so  before  the 
experiment  Was  tried. 

Grease  Erases. 

Benzine,  alcohol,  ether,  equal  parts;  mix;  apply  with  sponge 
(patting  the  spot) ;  put  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  on  each  side  and 
iron  with  a  hot  flat  iron. 

Cube  for  Chapped  Hands. 

Glycerine  applied  over  the  hands  at  night  is  an  excellent  remedy. 
This  remedy  is  very  much  employed  in  Russia  during  the  preva- 
lence of  severe  frosts,  to  protect  the  skin  of  the  face  when  exposed 
to  the  weftther. 

Case  op  the  Teeth. 

The  teeth  require  to  be  kept  particularly  clean,  rather  than  the 
application  of  mouth  washes  and  elaborate  dentifrices.  The  more 
simple  the  ingredients  used,  the  better.     Unless  recommended  by  a 


366  TOILET. 

good  dentist,  all  tooth  powders  reputed  to  have  beautifying  effects 
should  be  used  with  oaution«  Washing  the  teeth  night  and  morn- 
ing is  the  best  preservative  of  their  beauty  and  soundness. 

I  Oppensivk  Feet. 

Take  one  part  of  muriatic  acid  to  ten  parts  of  water.  Rub  the 
feet  every  night  with  this  mixture  before  retiring  to  bed. 

Fob  Fbeckles. 

One  quart  rain  watei*,  one  ounce  benzoin,  one  ounce  aqua  ammo- 
nia, one  ounce  rosewater,  two  ounces  glycerine;  mi±  well;  shake 
before  using. 

Care  of  the  Nails. 
The  finger-nails  should  be  trimmed  to  the  shape  of  the  fingers^- 
ends,  leaving  them  moderately  long,  but  hot  projecting  beyond  the 
tips  of  the  fingers.  Nails  should  not  be  cleaned  with  sharp-pointed 
scissors  and  pins — ^a  soft  nail  brush  is  the  right  means.  If  the 
hands  and  nails  have  become  unusually  soiled,  they  should  be 
rubbed  with  a  little  sweet  oil  or  pomatum  before  washing  with 
soap,  and  afterwards  cleaned  in  tepid  water.  In  wiping  the  hands 
the  '* crescent'*  of  the  nails  should  be  preserved  by  gently  pushing 
it  back  with  the  toweL 


CHAPTER  XXX' 


KITCHEN. 


Carb  of  Silvbb. 

HEN  putting  away  the  silver  tea  or  coffee  pot,  whioh  is  not 
used  every  day,  lay  a  little  stick  across  the  top  under  the 
cover;  this  will  allow  fresh  air  to  get  in  and  will  prevent 
mustiness.  It  will  then  be  ready  for  use  at  any  time,  after  having 
first  been  thoroughly  rinsed  with  boiling  water. 

Nothing  is  better  to  clean  silver  with  than  alcohol  and  ammonia. 
After  rubbing  with  this,  take  a  little  whiting  on  a  soft  cloth  and 
polish.  Even  frosted  silver,  which  is  so  difficult  to  dean,  may  be 
easily  made  clear  and  bright. 

Nbw  Kbttlbs. 

The  best  way  to  prepare  a  new  iron  kettle  for  use  is  to  fill  it  with 
clean  potato  peelings,  boil  them  for  an  hour  or  more,  then  wash  the 
kettle  with  hot  water,  wipe  it  dry.  and  rub  it  with  a  little  lard; 
repeat  the  rubbing  for  half  an  dozen  times  after  using.  In  this 
way  you  will  prevent  rust,  and  all  the  annoyances  liable  to  occur  iv 
the  use  of  a  new  kettle. 

To  PuRiPT  Wateb. 

A  large  spoonful  of  pulverized  alum  sprinkled  into  a  hogshead  of 
water  (the  water  stirred  round  at  the  time),  will,  after  the  lapse  of 
a  few  hours,  so  purify  it  that  it  wi!l  be  found  to  possess  nearly  the 
freshness  and  clearness  of  finest  spring  water.  A  pailful  containing 
four  gallons  may  be  purified  by  a  single  spoonful;  or  a  mixture  of 
one  part  chalk  and  two  of  alum  will  be  still  better. 

867 


368  KITCHEN. 

Washing  Dishbs. 

Dishes  should  always  be  rinsed  in  clear,  hot  water  after  saving 
been  washed  in  soap  suds.  Nothing  is  more  unpleasant  at  the  table 
than  to  notice  a  certain  stickiness  that  the  soap  is  likely  to  leave. 
It  is  necessary  also  from  n  sanitary  point  of  view;  the  caustic  alkali 
is  corrosive  and  unwholesome,  and  the  grease  is  often  impure. 

CLEAinNa  TnrwARE. 

Do  not  set  apart  one  day  on  which  to  clean  your  silver  or  scour 
your  tinware;  there  is  danger  of  its  not  being  done  at  alL  Have 
your  cleaning  material  ready,  and  when  you  are  "  doing  up  "  the 
dishes  after  each  meal,  clean  and  polish  the  silver  or  tin  you  have 
been  using.     This  is  a  good  habit  to  cultivate. 

To  Makb  Hard  Water  Sobt. 
Fill  the  wash-boiler  or  tank  with  hard  water;  then  pux  half  a  cup 
of  wood  ashes  into  a  woollen  bag;  cover  this  with  cotton  cloth  to 
prevent  ashes  sifting  out;  let  this  lie  in  the  water  until  that  is 
warm  enough  to  use. 

The  Griddle. 

Rub  your  griddle  with  fine  salt  before  you  grease  it,  and  your 
cake  will  not  stick. 

When  walnuts  have  been  kept  until  the  meat  is  too  much  dried 
to  be  good,  let  them  stand  in  milk  and  water  eight  hours,  dry 
them,  and  they  will  be  as  fresh  as  when  new. 

Coal  Ashes  Good  to  Scour  With. 

The  fine,  soft  coal  ashes  which  are  found  in  the  pipe  in  the 
spring,  and  which  sift  under  the  pan,  will  clean  and  brighten  tin- 
ware. Take  a  piece  of  old  flannel,  dip  lightly  into  soft  soap,  and 
rub,  afterwards  using  a  clean  piece  of  flannel  to  polish  with. 

How  TO  Triumph  over  Absbnt-Mindedness. 

Many  of  the  difliculties  arising  from  absent-mindedness  in  hired 
help  may  be  removed  if  the  mistress  of  the  house  has  a  habit  of 


KITCHEN.  369 

making  a  regular  programme  for  the  day's  work.  A  bit  of  personal 
experience  may  not  be  amiss.  I  had  a  girl  who  was  one  of  the 
most  obliging  persons  I  ever  saw,  but  she  could  not  remember  the 
oommon  and  usual  order  of  the  morning's  wort  Things  were 
always  going  wrong,  unless  at  just  such  an  hour  I  appeared  in  the 
kitchen  and  directed  that  the  vegetables  be  prepared  for  dinner, 
etc.  At  last  we  hit  upon  the  plan  of  hanging  a  written  programme 
of  the  work  to  be  done,  and  the  order  in  which  it  ought  to  be  done, 
over  the  sink.  This  worked  so  well  that  when  without  help  I  keep 
up  the  practice,  for  I  confess  to  the  fact  that  when  I  am  out  of  the 
kitchen  my  mind  is  out  of  it  too,  and  I  have  wasted  some  valuable 
time  standing  around  in  corners  of  the  pantry  and  kitchen  trying 
to  reproduce  the  conditions  which  gave  rise  to  thoughts  of  work 
that  ought  to  be  done;  but  with  the  help  of  the  programme  made 
out  the  night  before,  and  changed  as  circumstances  seem  to  require 
next  morning,  have  been  able  to  do  many  things  which  otherwise 
would  have  been  forgotten,  or  remembered  when  it  was  too  late  or 
very  inconvenient  to  do  them. 

An  Economical  Crumb-Cloth, 

A  red  table-cloth  that  is  too  much  faded  to  be  used  on  the  table 
makes  a  good  crumb  cloth.  Starch  it  as  stiff  as  you  can  easily, 
iron  perfectly  smooth,  taking  care  to  pull  the  edges  straight  and 
even,  pin  it  to  the  carpet  instead  of  tacking  it,  as  then  it  will  not 
be  so  much  trouble  to  take  it  up,  and  you  will  wash  it  just  as  soon 
as  it  needs  it.  It  will  keep  clean  a  long  time,  and,  even  if  you  can 
afford  a  handsome  cloth,  it  is  convenient  to  use  this  when  the  other 
is  up  to  be  cleaned. 

Scraping  Kettles. 

A  clam  shell  is  more  convenient  for  scraping  kettles  and  frying 
pans  than  a  knife.     It  does  the  work  in  less  time. 

How  TO  KEEP  Lamp  Chimneys  Clean. 
After  the  lamps  are  filled  and  the  chimneys  cleaned  and  put  on 
the  shelf,  take  pieces  of  newspaper  and  roll  in  the  form  of  a  chim- 

24 


870  KITCHEN. 

Dey  and  slip  over  chimney  and  lamp.  It  will  protect  from  dust  and 
flies,  and  when  the  lamps  are  lighted  one  will  be  rewarded  by  find- 
ing them  as  clean  and  bright  as  when  first  put  in  order. 

How  TO  Start  a  Fibe. 
Keep  the  kerosene  can  in  the  wood-house.  If  you  have  no  kind- 
ling, and  feel  that  oil  must  be  used  to  start  the  fire,  try  this  method: 
Take  a  small  paper  bag,  pour  a  little  oil  into  it,  and  run  with  it  to 
the  stove;  in  this  way  you  can  start  a  fire  quickly  without  dropping 
oil  on  the  floor,  or  endangering  your  life.  It  would  be  better  not 
to  use  oil  at  all  for  this  purpose. 

To  Make  Fire  Eindlers. 

Take  a  quart  of  tar  and  three  pounds  of  resin;  melt  them,  bring 
to  a  cooling  temperature,  mix  with  as  much  coarse  sawdust,  with  a 
little  charcoal  added,  as  can  be  worked  in;  spread  out  while  hot 
upon  a  board.  When  cold,  break  up  into  lumps  of  the  size  of  a 
hickory-nut,  and  you  have,  at  a  small  expense,  kindling  material 
enough  for  a  household  for  a  year. 

How  TO  Polish  a  Stqvb  Easily. 

If  a  little  vinegar  or  some  cider  is  mixed  with  stove  polish  it  will 
not  take  much  rubbing  to  make  the  stove  bright,  and  the  blacking 
ifi  not  likely  to  fly  off  in  fine  dust. 

How  TO  Use  the  Oil  Stove. 

A  few  suggestions  in  regard  to  the  use  of  the  oil  stove  may  be  of 
value  to  some  one  who  does  not  succeed  well  in  using  it.  Com- 
plaints are  frequently  made  that  a  meal  can  not  be  put  hot  upon 
the  table  if  cooked  on  the  single  oil  stove.  My  plan  is  this:  If  I 
am  to  get  breakfast  by  it,  the  first  thing  is  to  boil  the  water  for 
coffee,  have  the  coffee  in  the  pot,  with  some  soft  paper  stuffed  in 
the  nose.  When  the  water  boils,  pour  a  little  on  the  coffee,  cover 
closely,  and  set  it  one  side.  Then  warm  the  potatoes;  when  thor- 
oughly cooked,  cover  them  and  set  one  side.  If  beefsteak  is  pre- 
ferred to  cold  meaty  cook  that;   the  stove  being  very  hot,  it  wiU 


KITCHEN.  371 

cook  quickly.  Then  as  you  take  the  steak  oflE  with  one  hand, 
with  the  other  set  the  potatoes  back  on  the  stove.  While  you  are 
preparing  the  steak  for  the  table,  the  potatoes  will  be  getting  hot; 
while  taking  them  off,  set  the  coffee-pot  back  on  the  stove.  Of 
course,  one  must  be  very  quick  in  Ler  movements.  Dinner  may  in 
the  same  way  be  put  smokin;^  on  the  table,  and  the  housewife,  cool 
and  fresh,  will  enjoy  the  meal  as  well  as  any  member  of  the  family. 
Any  one  who  keeps  plants  in  a  room  where  there  is  no  fire  at  night, 
or  in  a  bay  window,  may  prevent  their  f rcezinj  by  lighting  the  oil 
stove  and  placing  it  near  them.  Canned  fruit  and  vegetables  may, 
also,  in  this  way  be  kept  from  freezing.  One  who  has  never  tried 
it  will  be  surprised  to  notice  how  much  heat  is  given  out. 

Blacking  Stoves. 

Every  woman  owes  it  to  her  family  as  well  as  to  herself  to 
simplify  her  work  i^  much  as  possible,  and  not  to  do  things  that 
are  unnecessary;  for  instance,  it  is  a  waste  of  time  and  strength 
and  blacking  to  black  and  polish  the  top  of  the  kitchen  stove  after 
each  meal  is  prepared;  and  yet  there  are  women  who  will  be 
shocked  to  read  this  assertion.  Other  parts  of  the  stove  can  be 
kept  nice  with  very, little  trouble;  and,  if  the  top  is  kept  clean  till 
her  fire  is  out  for  the  day,  that  ought  to  satisfy  the  most  pains- 
taking woman.  A  convenient  arrangement  for  washing  the  top  of 
a  hot  stove  is  to  have  a  smooth,  round  stick,  with  a  soft  cloth  tied 
securely  to  it.     A  cloth  is  better  than  a'brush  for  cleaning  comers. 

How  TO  Clean  Mica. 

Every  woman  who  has  been  obliged  to  spend  half  a  day  several 
times  during  the  winter  cleaning  the  mica  in  her  coal  stove,  usually 
by  taking  them  out  and  washing  them  in  soap-suds,  will  rejoice  to 
know  there  is  a  much  easier  way  to  clean  them,  and  that  there  is  no 
need  to  take  them  out  or  let  the  fire  bum  very  low  in  order  to  do  it 
successfully.  Take  a  little  vinegar  and  water  and  wash  the  mica 
carefully  with  a  soft  cloth;  the  acid  removes  all  stains,  and  if  a 
little  pains  is  taken  in  cleaning  the  corners  and  in  wiping  them  dry, 


872  KITCHEN. 

the  mica  will  look  as  good  as  new.  It  is  a  great  care  to  see  thai 
stoves  are  kept  in  pr.p  r  order,  and  not  many  servants  can  be 
trusted  to  do  it  as  it  shouid  bo  done.  The  task  might  be  made 
somewhat  easier  by  choosin^^  stoves  which  are  not  too  highly  orna- 
mented. Unless  the  trimmingij  are  ke^t  absolutely  spotless  and 
bright,  which  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  accomplish,  they  cannot 
lay  the  least  claim  to  being  ornamental;  indeed,  a  stove  which,  by 
reason  of  its  excessive  decoration,  is  rendered  the  most  prominent 
feature  of  the  room,  demanding  attention  the  moment  one  enters,  is 
certainly  in  bad  taste.  A  clean,  we'll-polished  stove,  with  graceful 
shape,  which  fulfills  the  end  of  its  being  by  heating  the  house,  is  all 
that  a  stove  should  be.  The  fire  may  be,  as  it  has  been  called,  the 
soul  of  the  room,  but  it  ought  not  to  ask  too  much  attention  to  its 
body. 

To  Clean  Knivbs. 

Scrape  at  one  end  of  the  knife-board  a  little  heap  of  Bath  brick; 
rub  on  a  piece  of  red  flannel  some  yellow  soap;  lay  the  knife  flat 
on  the  board;  dip  the  soaped  flannel  in  the  brick-dust,  and  rub  it  on 
the  knife.  When  clean,  wash  the  knives  in  warm  water,  but  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  touch  the  handle.  This  method  saves  the 
knives  as  well  as  the  labor  of  cleaning  in  the  usual  way. 

To  Keep  jl  Kitchen  Table  Clean. 

A  cook  should  always  keep  a  piece  of  oil  cloth  ready,  to  put  her 
saucepans  and  stewpans  on  when  necessary;  the  oil  cloth  can  be  so 
much  more  easily  cleaned  than  the  table.  A  few  common  straw 
mats  are  also  very  handy  in  a  kitchen,  to  save  the  table  from  being 
soiled. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 


THE    LAUNDRY. 

To  Clean  Colobed  Fabrics. 

[EARLY  all  colored  f .^brics  stain  the  suds  used  to  clean  them, 
and  that  withou:  losing  their  own  brightness  in  any  way. 
No  article  of  a  different  color  must  be  plunged  into  a  rinse  or 
wash  so  stained,  but  must  have  fresh  ones;  and  no  colored  article 
must  be  rinsed  in  blued  suds.  Scarlet  is  particularly  prone  to  color 
a  wash. 

Different  colors  are  improved  by  different  substances  being  used 
in  the  wash  or  rinse;  sugar  of  lead  has  the  credit  of  fixing  all  colors 
when  first  cleaned,  and  may  be  used  to  those  likely  to  run.  To 
brighten  colors,  mix  some  ox-gall ;  but,  of  course,  the  quantity  must 
be  regulated  by  the  quantity  of  suds  in  the  wash  and  rinse.  For 
buff  and  cream-colored  alpaca  or  cashmere,  mix  in  the  wash  and 
rinse  some  friar's  balsam.  For  black  materials,  some  ammonia. 
For  violet,  ammonia  or  a  small  quantity  of  soda  in  the  rinsing 
water.  There  are  some  violets  and  mauves  that  fade  in  soda.  For 
green,  vinegar  in  the  rinse,  in  the  proportion  to  two  tablespoon fuls 
to  a  quart  of  rinse.  For  blue,  to  one  dress,  a  good  handful  of 
common  salt  in. the  rinse.  For  brown  and  grey,  ox-gall.  For 
white,  blue  the  wash  with  laundry  blue. 

Dresses,  mantles,  shawls,  opera  cloaks,  underskirts,  articled 
embroidered  with  silk,  self-colored  or  chintz-colored  damask  cur« 
tains,  moreen  and  other  woollen  curtaining,  may  all  be  cleaned  as 
specified  so  far.  Blankets  should  be  cleaned  in  the  same  way. 
Pull  them  out  well,  whilst  wet,  at  both  sides  and  both  ends,  between 

878 


L- 


874  THE  LAUNDRY. 

two  persons.  When  half  dry,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  take  them  off 
the  line,  and  pull  them  again;  when  quite  dry  just  give  them  a 
little  more  pulling  out.  This  keeps  them  open  and  soft.  Blankets 
are  not  blued  so  much  as  flannels,  presently  described.  Never  use 
soda  to  them,  and  never  rinse  them  in  plain  water,  or  rub  on  soap. 
The  dyers  and  cleaners  have  a  mode  of  pressing  articles  which 
gives  to  many  of  them,  such  as  damask  and  moreen  curtaining  and 
paisley  shawls,  a  superior  appearance  to  anything  that  can  be 
achieved  at  home;  but  some  of  them  will  press  articles  at  a  fixed 
price  for  persons  cleaning  them  at  home. 

Muslin  Dbesses, 

Even  of  the  most  delicate  colors,  can  be  cleaned  in  ten  minutes 
or  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  without  losing  their  color.  Melt  half  a 
pound  of  soap  in  a  gallon  of  water,  empty  it  in  a  washing  tub; 
place  near  two  large  tubs  of  clean  water,  and  stir  into  one  a  quart 
of  bran.  Put  the  muslin  in  the  soap,  turn  it  over  and  knead  it  for 
a  few  minutes;  squeeze  it  out  well,  but  do  not  wring  it,  lest  it  get 
torn;  rinse  it  about  quickly  in  the  bran  for  a  couple  of  minutes. 
Rinse  again  well  for  a  couple  of  minutes  in  clean  water.  Squeeze 
out  dry  and  hang  it  between  two  lines.  A  clear,  dry  day  should  be 
chosen  to  wash  muslin  dresses;  half  a  dozen  may  be  done  this  way 
in  half  an  hour.  The  last  rinse  may  be  prepared  the  same  way  as 
the  rinses  for  woollen  fabrics.  A  colored  pattern  on  a  white  ground 
must  not  be  blued.     The  bran  may  here  be  dispensed  with. 

When  the  dress  is  dry,  make  the  starch;  for  a  colored  muslin 
white  starch,  and  unboiled,  but  made  with  boiling  water,  is  best. 
Stir  the  starch  with  the  end  of  a  wax  candle.  Dip  the  dress.  Hang 
it  again  to  dry.  When  dry,  rinse  it  quickly  and  thoroughly  in 
clear  water.  Hang  it  to  dry  again.  Sprinkle  and  roll  it  up;  after- 
wards iron  it  with  a  very  hot  iron.  Hot  irons  keep  the  starch  stiff. 
This  rinsing  after  starching  is  called  clear-starching;  none  of  the 
stiffness,  but  much  of  the  unsightliness  of  the  starch  is  removed  in 
this  way. 


THE  LAUOT)RY.  375 

All  kinds  of  white  muslins,  laoe  curtains,  cravats,  etc.,  may  be 
washed  in  a  thick  ley  of  soap  as  described,  well  rinsed,  blued,  and 
starched,  like  the  muslin  dresses  above  named.  Use  blue  starch  to 
white.  Book  muslin  should  be  very  slightly  blued  as  blue-looking 
muslin  is  very  unbecoming  to  the  complexion;  a  slight  creamy  tinge 
is  preferable. 

Morning  cambric  dresses  may  be  washed  the  same  way  as  muslin 
dresses;  but  they  do  not  generally  clean  so  readily,  and,  perhaps, 
may  need  rubbing  a  little  in  places  that  are  soiled. 

The  advantage  of  thus  cleaning  dresses  instead  of  washing  them 
is,  first,  if  colored,  the  process  is  so  rapid  that  there  is  not  time  for 
the  colors  to  run.  Secondly,  the  fabric  is  not  rubbed,  and  there- 
fore not  strained  and  worn  out.  Thirdly,  the  process  saves  nearly 
all  labor,  and  is  so  quickly  done,  that  any  lady  may  manage  it  for 
herself  in  the  absence  of  a  laundry-maid. 

If  any  ladies  make  a  strong  solution  of  sugar  of  lead;  stir  it  well 
when  dissolved,  and  let  the  dress,  muslin  or  cotton,  soak  a  couple 
of  hours  to  set  the  colors  before  washing  it  the  first  time.  It  does 
not  need  to  be  repeated.  Those  using  sugar  of  lead  should  be  care- 
ful not  to  do  so  if  they  have  any  scratches,  abrasions,  or  wounds 
about  their  hands. 

Chintz  may  be  cleaned  the  same  way  as  muslin  and  print  dresses. 

Laces. 
Laces  of  all  kinds  can,  with  a  little  care,  be  rendered  equal  to 
new.  Make  a  strong  solution  of  soap,  as  described  for  woollen 
materials.  The  laces  may  all  be  put  in  at  once.  Squeeze  them  in 
and  out.  They  generally  become  free  from  dirt  by  once  passing 
through.  They  may  then  be  thoroughly  rinsed,  blued,  and  starched; 
but  if  at  all  discolored  and  bad  looking,  must  first  be  boiled.  Soap 
each  article  thoroughly  all  over;  fill  a  basin  or  jar  with  water 
as  blue  as  possible,  and  lumps  of  soda  and  soap;  put  the  lace  in 
the  basin;  put  the  basin  in  a  saucepan  of  water  just  large  enough 
to  hold  above  by  the  rim  (like  a  glue-pot),  and  put  the  saucepan 
lid  on  the  basin.    Boil  two  or  three  hours,  taking  care  the  water 


376  THE  LAUNDRY. 

does  not  boil  out  of  the  saucepan  and  let  it  bum;  if  ne^d  be, 
replenish  it;  tarn  oat  the  lace  in  the  basin;  rinse  it  well;  blae  it 
with  the  finest  blue  that  can  be  procured,  but  not  much;  get  a 
bottle  of  the  best  drawing  gum  in  solution  from  an  artists' 
colorman  (common  liquid  gum  will  not  do);  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  this  to  a  pint  of  water;  stir  it  well;  stiffen  the  laces  in  it; 
squeeze  them  dry;  lay  them  on  a  clean  dry  towel;  fold  them  up 
till  most  of  the  moisture  is  absorbed.  While  still  dry,  pin  out  each 
piece  of  lace  by  each  point,  stretching  it  equal  to  new,  but  not 
straining  any  part,  on  a  cushion  which  has  first  been  covered  with  a 
clean  cloth.  The  right  side  of  the  lace  should  be  up.  Leave  it  till 
quite  dry,  which  will  probably  not  be  till  the  next  day.  If  it  is 
Cluny  lace  with  raised  spots,  take  a  pin  and  raise  all  the  spots  as  it 
lies  on  the  cushion.  Remove  all  the  pins,  and  pick  out  every  part 
and  corner  of  the  lace  with  the  fingers.  If  raised,  raise  it  by  draw- 
ing it  over  the  thumb-nail.  Brussels  lace  and  Honiton  lace  look 
better  ironed  whilst  a  little  damp,  instead  of  being  pinned  out  in 
this  way.  Arrange  these,  also,  with  the  finger,  both  before  and 
after  ironing.  Crochet  may  be  pinned  out,  or  left  to  dry,  pulled 
out  with  the  fingers  only,  or  pulled  out  whilst  still  damp  and 
ironed.     It  is,  also,  a  matter  of  fancy  whether  it  is  starched  or  not. 

To  Bleach  Lace,  Etc. 
After  washing  and  boiling  let  it  lie  all  day  in  excessively  strong 
blue-water;  lay  it  out  all  night  on  the  grass  to  dry.     Boil  again 
with  soap,  without  soda  or  blueing;  rinse  well.      It  must  not,  how- 
ever, be  forgotten  that  too  much  soda  turns  linen,  etc.,  yellow. 

To  Sttppen  Linen, 
Such  as  cuffs  that  require  to  be  very  firm,  boil  the  starch  after 
mixing  it  cold.  Into  a  pint  of  starch  drop  a  bit  of  white  wax  half 
the  size  of  a  small  hazle-nut  and  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy.  The 
spirit  is  to  retain  the  stiffness  and  increase  it,  the  wax  to  save  the 
starch  from  sticking  to  the  iron.  When  an  iron  sticks  to  starch, 
soap  the  bottom  of  the  iron. 


THE  LAUNDRY.  377 

To  Clean  Cloth. 

A  contemporary  recommends  the  following  plan:  Moisten  a 
sponge  with  pure  water,  press  it  in  a  clean  towel  till  it  becomes 
nearjy^  dry;  then  sponge,  one  place  after  the  other,  the  cloth;  all  the  t 
dust  will  enter  the  sponge;  wash  the  sponge  afterwards  with  water. 
This  method  of  cleaning  wears  cloth  out  less  than  brushing.  Many 
spots  also  disappear  with  pure  water. 

To  Clean  Black  Silk. 

Take  entirely  to  pieces  the  dress,  jacket,  etc.,  and  well  shake  each 
piece;  then  spread  over  a  table  and  over  it  spread  a  newspaper,  or 
sheet  of  clean  paper,  and  on  it  lay  a  breadth  of  the  silk.  Brush  it 
well  both  sides  with  a  fine  soft  brush — a  hat-brush  would  very  well 
answer  the  purpose.  Shake  it  again;  fold  together  in  half,  and 
place  it  on  one  side  of  ^e  table.  In  the  same  manner  shake,  brush, 
and  shake  again,  each  piece  of  silk.  Remove  the  paper,  and  place 
on  the  table  a  clean  sheet.  On  the  paper  again  place  a  breadth  of 
the  silk,  and  into  a  clean  quart  basin  pour  a  half  pint  of  cold  water 
adding  a  half  pint  of  good  sweetened  gin,  which  is  better  for  the 
purpose  than  unsweetened,  as  the  sugar  stiffens  the  silk.  These 
are  the  proportions  for  any  quantity  required.  Have  ready  a  piece 
of  black  crape,  or  black  merino,  about  a  half  yard  square;  dip  it 
well  into  the  liquid,  and  thoroughly  wash  over  the  best  side  of  the 
silk.  Be  careful  that  it  be  well  cleaned,  and,  if  possible,  wash  it 
from  edge  to  edge,  and  wet  it  well  all  over.  Then  fold  over  the 
silk  m  half;  then  again,  till  the  folds  are  the  width  of  those  of  new 
silk.  Place  it  in  a  clean  towel,  and  clean  each  piece  of  the  silk  in 
the  same  manner,  laying  one  piece  on  the  other;  and  remembering 
by  a  mark  which  is  the  last  piece  done,  as  that  must  be  the  last 
ironed.  Let  the  silk  be  folded  in  the  towel  till  a  large  iron  is  well 
heated;  but  be  careful  that  it  is  not  too  hot;  try  it  first  on  paper, 
or  a  piece  of  old  dampened  silk.  Use  two  irons.  Open  the  towel 
when  the  iron  is  ready,  and  place  the  piece  of  silk  that  was  first 
cleaned  on  an  old  table-cloth  or  sheet  folded  thick;  iron  the  wrong 


878  THE  LAUNDRY. 

side  quiokly,  from  edge  to  edge,  until  dry.  Fold  the  silk  over 
lightly  to  the  width  of  new  silk,  and  place  it  on  one  end  of  the  table 
till  all  are  done.  This  simple  process  stiffens,  deans,  and  makes 
the  silk  look  new. 

To  Clean  Black  MsBinOy  ob  ant  Woollen  Stuff. 

Purchase  at  a  drug  store  two  cents  worth  of  carbonate  of 
ammonia.  Place  it  in  a  clean  quart  basin,  and  pour  upon  it  a  pint 
of  boiling  water;  cover  it  over  with  a  clean  plate,  and  let  it  stand 
till  cold.  Then  proceed  the  same  as  directed  for  cleaning  black 
silks.  Gentlemen's  clothes  can  thus  be  cleaned  without  taking  to 
pieces,  or  ironing,  unless  quite  convenient.  Vests  and  coat  collars 
are  thus  easily  renovated,  the  color  is  revived,  grease  spots  and 
white  seams  removed. 

To  Renovate  Crape. 

Brush  the  crape  well  with  a  soft  brush,  and  hold  tightly  over  a 
wide-mouthed  jug  of  boiling  water,  gradually  stretching  it  over  the 
jug.  If  a  strip  of  crape,  it  is  very  easily  held  tightly  over  the 
water,  letting  the  portion  done  fall  over  the  jug  until  all  is  com- 
pleted. The  crape  will  become  firm  and  fit  for  use,  every  mark 
and  fold  being  removed.  White  or  colored  crape  may  be  washed 
and  pinned  over  a  newspaper,  or  towel,  on  the  outside  of  a  bed, 
until  dry.  Crape  that  has  been  exposed  to  rain  or  damp — ^veils 
especially — ^may  be  saved  from  spoiling  by  being  stretched  tightly 
on  the  outside  of  the  bed  with  pins,  until  dry;  and  no  crape  should 
be  left  to  dry  without  having  been  pulled  into  proper  shape.  If 
black  crape,  lace,  or  net,  is  faded  or  turned  brown,  it  may  be  dipped 
into  water,  colored  with  the  blue-bag,  adding  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar 
to  stiffen,  and  pinned  to  a  newspaper  on  a  bed. 

Washing  Clothes. 
If  pipe  day  is  dissolved  in  the  water,  the  linen  is  thoroughly 
cleaned  with  half  the  labor  and  a  saving  of  one-fourth  of  soap;  and 
the  clothes  will  be  improved  in  color  equally  as  if  bleached.     The 
pipe  clay  softens  the  hardest  water. 


w 


THE  LAUNDRY.  379 

Washing  Chintzes. 

These  should  always  be  washed  in  dry  weather,  but  if  it  is  very 
oold,  it  is  better  to  dry  them  by  the  fire  than  risk  spoiling  the 
colors  from  freezing  in  the  open  air.  It  is  better,  if  possible,  to 
defer  their  washing  till  the  weather  is  suitable. 

To  Rbmoyb  Spots  of  Wax. 

Place  a  piece  of  soft  soap  on  each  spot  and  warm  it  slightly 
before  the  fire,  or  in  the  sun  (if  hot).  Wash  the  spot  afterward 
with  soft  water,  and  it  will  disappear. 

Another  Rbcipb. 

Cover  the  spot  with  spirits  of  wine  or  turpentine,  and  rub  the 
place  gently  with  a  soft  rag.  Continue  the  same  process  until  the 
spot  disappears. 

To  Clean  Cabpets. 

When  the  carpet  is  well  beaten  and  free  from  dust,  lay  it  tightly 
down,  and  scrub  it  with  soap,  dissolved  in  soft  water  mixed  with 
bullock's  gall — ^about  four  gallons  of  water  to  a  pint  of  galL  This 
will  restore  the  colors  of  the  carpet  to  their  original  brightness,  and 
make  it  look  almost  like  new..  The  brush  employed  should  be  of 
soft  character,  with  long  bristles. 

Fob  Bleaching  Cotton  Cloth. 

One  pound  chloride  of  lime,  dissolved  and  strained;  put  in  two 
or  three  pails  of  water;  thoroughly  wet  the  cloth  and  leave  it  over 
night;  then  rinse  well  in  two  waters.  This  will  also  take  out  mil- 
dew, and  is  equally  good  for  brown  cotton  or  white  that  has  become 
yellow  from  any  cause,  and  will  not  injure  the  fabric. 

To  Clean  Light  Kid  Gloves. 

Magnesia,  moist  bread,  and  India  rubber,  are  all  of  them  good  to 
dean  light  kid  gloves.  They  should  be  rubbed  on  the  gloves  thor- 
oughly. If  so  much  soiled  that  they  cannot  be  cleaned,  sew  up  the 
tops  of  the  gloves,  and  rub  them  over  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  a 


380  THE  LAUNDRY. 

decoction  of  sa£Pron   and  water.    The  gloves  will  be  yellow  or 
brown,  according  to  the  strength  of  the  decoction. 

To  Clean  White  Silk  Lace. 

The  lace  is  stretched  over  small  clean  slips  of  wood  to  keep  it 
evenly  spread  out,  laid  over  night  in  warm  milk,  to  which  a  little 
soap  has  been  added,  rinsed  in  fresh  water,  laid  for  the  same  length 
of  time  in  warm  soap-lye,  and  finally  rinsed  without  any  friction. 
Linen  lace  is  best  cleaned  by  covering  the  outside  of  a  large  glass 
bottle  smoothly  with  stout  linen  or  white  flannel,  upon  which  the 
lace  is  sewn  in  a  number  of  coils,  and  over  the  whole  some  coarse 
open  tissue  is  secured.  The  bottle  thus  dressed  is  allowed  to  soak 
for  a  time  in  lukewarm  soft  water,  and  the  outside  wrapping  is  then 
rubbed  with  soap  and  a  piece  of  flannel.  After  this  the  bottle  is 
laid  to  steep  for  some  hours  in  clean  soft  water.  It  is  then  rolled 
between  dry  towels,  dipped  in  rice  water,  and  rolled  again.  Finally 
the  damp  lace  is  unfastened  from  the  bottle  and  ironed  between 
linen  cloths. 

Starch  Polish. 

Wliite  wax,  one  ounce;  spermaceti,  two  ounces;  melt  them 
together  with  a  gentle  heat.  When  .you  have  prepared  a  sufficient 
amount  of  starch,  in  the  usual  way,  for  a  dozen  pieces — ^put  into  it 
a  piece  of  the  polish  the  size  of  a  large  pea;  more  or  less,  according 
to  large  or  small  washings.  Or,  thick  gum  solution  (made  by 
pouring  boiling  water  upon  gum  arable),  one  tablespoonful  to  a  pint 
of  starch,  gives  clothes  a  beautiful  gloss. 

Washing  Fluid. 
Dissolve  in  a  gallon  of  hot  water  one  pound  of  concentrated  lye, 
one-half  ounce  salts  of  tartar,  one-half  ounce  liquid  ammonia;  when 
cool,  bottle  for  use.  Soak  the  clothes  over  night;  wring  out  and 
add  a  cup  of  the  fluid  to  a  boiler  of  water;  put  in  the  clothes  and 
boil  one  hour;  rub  them  as  much  as  is  necessary,  and  rinse  well  in 
two  waters,  with  a  little  bluing  in  the  last.  But  little  rubbing  is 
necessary,  and  this  method  will  certainly  save  clothes,  time,  and 


THE  LAUNDRY.  381 

labor.  Lace  curtains  may  be  washed  in  the  same  way.  Starch 
them  and  press  out  all  that  is  possible  in  a  towel;  pin  sheets  on  the 
carpet;  spread  out  the  curtains  carefully,  shaping  every  scallop  on 
the  sheets;  pin  them  in  place  and  leave  them  until  dry. 

Gem  Washing  Fluid. 

One  pound  salsoda,  one  ounce  borax,  one  ounce  salts  of  tartar, 
one  ounce  ammonia,  three  quarts  of  rain  water.  Put  the  rain  water 
over  the  fire,  then  put  in  the  salsoda,  borax,  and  salts  of  tartan  Do 
not  put  in  the  ammonia  until  it  gets  cold.  Put  one  cup  into  the 
boiler  when  you  boil  your  clothes. 

Hakd  Soap. 

It  is  a  simple  matter  to  make  hard  soap,  which  is  not  only  agree- 
able to  use,  but  which  has  the  great  m  rit  of  cleanliness.  To  seven 
pounds  of  tallow  use  three  pounds  of  rosin,  two  pounds  of  potash, 
and  six  gallons  of  water;  boil  for  three  houro,  or,  better  still,  for 
five;  turn  from  a  kettle  into  a  wash-tub;  let  it  stand  all  night.  In 
the  morning  cut  into  bars,  and  lay  them  on  a  table  or  board  in  the 
sun  to  harden  for  two  or  three  days.  This  quantity  will  last  a 
family  of  four  persons  a  year,  if  used  for  ordinary  household 

purposes. 

Soft  Soap. 

Take  six  gallons  of  soft  or  rain  water,  add  three  pounds  of  best 
hard  soap  (cut  fine),  one  pound  salsoda,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
hartshorn;  boil  the  whole  till  perfectly  dissolved;  pour  into  vessels, 
and  when  cold  it  is  fit  for  use.  This  makes  fifty  pounds  of  fine 
jelly  soap. 

How  TO  Wash  Flannbls. 

There  are  many  conflicting  theories  in  regard  to  the  proper  way 
to  wash  flannels,  but  I  am  convinced,  from  careful  observation,  that 
the  true  way  is  to  wash  them  in  water  in  which  you  can  comfort- 
ably bear  your  hand.  Make  suds  before  putting  the  flannels  in, 
and  do  not  rub  soap  on  the  flannel.  I  make  it  a  rule  to  have  only 
one  piece  of  flannel  put  in  the  tub  at  a  time.     Wash  in  two  suds  if 


382  THE  LAUNDRY. 

much  soiled;  then  rinse  thoroughly  in  clean,  weak  suds,  wring  and 
hang  up;  but  do  not  take  flannels  out  of  warm  water  and  hang  out 
in  a  freezing  air,  as  that  certainly  tends  to  shrink  them.  It  is 
better  to  ^y  them  in  the  house,  unlens  the  sun  shines.  In  washing 
worsted  goods,  such  as  men's  pantaloons,  pursue  the  same  course; 
only  do  not  wring  them,  but  hang  them  up  and  let  them  drain; 
while  a  little  damp,  bring  in  and  press  smoothly  with  as  hot  an  iron 
Bs  you  can  use  without  scorching  the  goods.  The  reason  for  not 
wringing  them  is  to  prevent  wrinkles. 

How  TO  ExEP  Black  Gloves  from  Crocking. 

Black  cotton  gloves  will  not  crock  the  hands  if  scalded  in  salt 
and  water  before  wearing.  The  salt  prevents  fading.  When 
almost  dry,  one  should  put  them  on,  in  order  to  stretch  them  and 
keep  them  in  good  shape. 

Some  one  may  wish  to  know  how  to  wash  a  linen  duster  in  such 
a  way  that  it  will  not  look  faded.  All  old  colored  linen  should  be 
washed  in  lukewarm  water.  If  there  are  any  grease  spots,  use  a 
little  hard  soap,  or,  better  still,  remove  them  with  benzine.  Rinse 
thoroughly  in  water  in  which  a  third  of  a  cup  of  salt  has  been  dis- 
solved; the  last. water  must  be  very  blue,  and  a  small  h^andful  of 
starch  put  in.  Hang  in  a  shady  place;  and,  as  soon  as  the  duster  is 
dry,  .take  it  down,  so  that  the  wind  will  not  blow  the  starch  out. 
If  dampened  with  warm  water,  it  will  soon  be  ready  to  iron. 

To  Remove  Scorches.  • 

Spread  over  the  cloth  a  paste  made  of  the  juice  pressed  from  two 
onions,  one-fourth  ounce  white  soap,  two  ounces  fuller's  earth,  and 
one-half  pint  vinegar.     Mix,  boil  well,  and  cook  before  using. 

Washing  Towels. 

Towels  with  handsome,  bright  borders  should  never  be  boiled, 
or  allowed  to  lie  in  very  hot  water;  they  should  not  be  used  till 
they  are  so  much  soiled  that  they  need  vigorous  rubbing  to 
make  them  clean*     It  is  better  economy  to  use  more  towels  than 


i 

J 

i 
\ 


THB  LAUNDRY.  883 

to  wear  out  a  few  in  a  short  time.  A  gentle  mbbing  in  two  kadsy 
:and  then  conscientious  rinsing  in  warm  water  and  then  in  cold, 
oaght  to  be  all  that  is  required. 

How  TO  DO  UP  Shibt  Bosoms. 

^  Take  two  ounces  of  fine  white  gum  arable  powder;  put  it  in  a 
pitcher  and  pour  on  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling  water,  according  to 
the  degree  of  strength  you  desire,  and  then,  having  covered  it,  let 
it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  pour  it  carefully  from  the  dregs 
into  a  clean  bottle,  cork,  and  keep  it  for  use.  A  tablespoonful  of 
gum  water  stirred  in  a  pint  of  starch,  made  in  the  usual  manner, 
will  give  to  lawn,  either  white  or  printed,  a  look  of  newness,  when 
nothing  else  can  restore  them  after  they  have  been  washed." 

If  your  flat-irons  are  rough  and  smoky^  lay  a  little  fine  salt  on  a 
fiat  surface  i^d  rub  them  well;  it  will  prevent  them  from  sticking 
to  anything  starched,  and  make  them  smooth. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

SEWING    ROOM. 

Saving  Thrbad. 

HEN  raveling  out  a  fringe  on  mats  or  tidiea  made  of  Java  or 
honeycomb  canvas,  save  the  threads.  Ton  may  use  them  to 
feather-stitch  bands  of  white  cotton  cloth  for  trimming. 
They  are  serviceable  on  children's  underwear,  at  tho  top  of  Ham- 
burg ruffles,  and  will  last  longer  than  insertion. 

Window  Shades. 

Scarlet  holland  shades,  trimmed  across  the  ends  with  antique  lace, 
are  very  pretty  and  serviceable  for  a  dining-room,  giving  a  soft 
and  warm  light  to  the  room. 

Scrap-Baos. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  pretty  scrap-bags  in  sitting-room,  bed- 
room, and  dining-room,  and  to  hang  one  near  the  sewing-machina 
They  may  be  ornamental,  and  are  certainly  useful.  Since  trying 
this  I  have  saved  paper  rags  enough  to  buy  all  the  new' tin-ware 
needed  in  the  house,  and  have  occasionally  bought  a  broom  also. 

Every  bit  of  cloth,  every  postal-card  and  circular,  that  would 
otherwise  have  been  put  into  the  stove  as  not  being  worth  the 
trouble  of  a  walk  to  the  regular  rag-bag,  finds  its  way  into  the  little 
scrap-bag. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  your  different  kinds  of  pieces,  tape^ 
thread,  etc.,  in  separate  bags,  and  there  is  no  time  lost  looking  f  of 
them. 

Pretty  bags  are  made  of  perforated  paper,  with  a  simple  vin^ 


SEWING  ROOM,  385 

worked  around  the  top,  the  bottom  of  the  bag  being  of  silk  or 
merino,  and  the  top  finished  with  a  crocheted  scallop;  or  they  may 
be  made  of  Java  canvas,  with  wire  around  the  top  to  keep  it  in 
shape;  a  piece  of  old  hoopskirt  may  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Sewing  on  BtrrroNS. 

When  sewing  buttons  on  children's  clothes  where  thoi*e  will  be 
much  strain  on  the  button,  the  danger  of  tearing  the  cloth  out  will 
be  greatly  lessened  by  putting  a  small  button  directly  under  the 
larger  outside  button.  This  applies,  of  course,  only  to  buttons  with 
holes  through  them. 

Marking  Handkerchiefs. 

A  plain  hem-stitched  pocket-handkerchief  can  Iw  ornamented 
prettily  by  putting  a  row  of  feather-stitching,  in  Mhite  or  colored 
working  cotton,  just  above  the  hem.  This  is  a  good  way  to  mark 
handkerchiefs  for  the  wash,  providing,  of  course,  that  the  washing 
is  done  at  home. 

Table  Covers. 

Simple  and  tasteful  table  covers  for  bed-roGiAS  may  be  made  of 
pale  blue  Canton  flannel,  trimmed  with  antiques  lace,  or  with  velvet 
ribbons  feather-stitched  on,  and  finished  witL  fringe  made  of  blue 
split  zephyr  or  Shetland  wool.  Table  cov<;rs  made  of  blocks  of 
cretonne  are  very  handsome.  If  two  or  three  persons  wish  to  make 
them,  they  can  buy  the  materials  to  better'  advantage.  Let  each 
one  get  several  kinds  of  cretonne,  a  quarter  of  a  yard  of  each  kind; 
then  they  can  arrange  to  have  each  block  different.  Stitch  the 
blocks  on  a  lining  made  of  unbleached  cotton  or  of  colored"  cam- 
bric. Then,  when  the  blocks  are  join<jd,  sew  on  narrow  braid, 
which  can  be  bought  at  any  furniture  store,  or  use  narrow  black 
velvet,  worked  in  fancy  stitches,  or  common  black  dress  braid, 
feather-stitched  with  canary-colored  silk.  When  cutting  out  the 
blocks,  if  a  little  care  is  exercised  in  placing  the  pattern  on  the 
cloth,  strips  will  be  left  with  a  suitable  figure  which  can  be  sewed 

85 


886  SEWING  ROOM. 

together  to  make  a  lambrequin.  Have  the  strips  aboat  five  inches 
wide.  One  thing  should  be  thought  of  when  beginning  to  do  fancy 
work,  and  that  is,  if  you  have  not  time  to  do  it  well,  do  not  under- 
take it;  it  cannot  be  slighted  or  hurried  over  without  entirely 
spoiling  the  effect.  In  making  the  spread,  unless  the  blocks  are 
exactly  square,  and  the  edges  not  stretched,  your  spread  will  not 
hang  well  on  the  table. 

Taking  Care  op  Stockings. 

Before  the  children's  stockings  begin  to  be  thin  at  the  knees  and 
to  need  darning,  put  a  piece  of  cloth  under  and  sew  with  fine 
stitches,  so  that  they  will  not  show.  Soft  flannel,  or  pieces  of  old 
stockings  which  are  strong  enough  to  be  worth  using,  are  better 
than  any  heavier  cloth.  By  taking  the  trouble  to  do  this,  the 
stockings  can  be  made  to  last  twice  as  long  as  without  it. 

Putting  away  Stockings. 
When  putting  away,  summer  stockings,  see  that  they  are  clean 
and  whole.  It  is  a  great  comfort  to  find  them  ready  for  use  in  the 
spring.  Have  a  calico  or  cambric  bag  to  hold  the  stockings  of  each 
member  of  the  family.  Label  each  one,  in  order  to  save  time,  and- 
not  be  obliged  to  look  into  each  to  find  the  ones  you  wish  to  use. 
In  summer  keep  the  winter  stockings  in  thenu 

To  PRESERXTE   OlD   StOCKINGS. 

Pale  blue  stockings  which  have  faded  can  have  the  color  restored 
by  dipping  them  into  hot  water  in  which  common  bluing  has  been 
poured,  and  some  lumps  of  alum  dissolved.  Old  white  stockings 
can  be  colored  in  this  way,  and  do  a  good  deal  of  service. 

Home-made  Work-Baskets. 
Pretty  little  work-baskets  m»y  be  made  of — what  do  you  think? 
the  paper  pails  used  to  carry  oysters  home  from  the  market  in  !  I 
saw  one  a  few  days  ago;  it  was  lined  with  pale  pink  silk,  the  soft 
silk  used  for  linings.  The  silk  was  turned  over  the  outer  edge  and 
shirred  around  it.     The  wire  handle  was  taken  off,  and  a  narrow 


SEWING  ROOM,  387 

Btrip  of  canvas  used  in  place  of  it.  This  was  covered  with  silk 
and  ornamented  with  a  tiny  bow.  On  each  side  of  the  pail  was 
pasted  a  pretty  picture.  One  would  not  guess  of  what  the  basket 
was  made. 

Harmonious  Color  Contrasts. 

The  following  list  of  harmonizing  colors  will  be  found  very  useful 
in  selecting  wall  decorations  or  colors  for  any  purpose.  Red  with 
green,  blue  with  orange,  yellow  with  violet,  black  with  warm 
brown,  violet  with  pale  green,  violet  with  light  rose,  deep  blue  with 
golden  brown,  chocolate  with  light  blue,  deep  red  with  gray, 
maroon  with  warm  green,  deep  blue  with  pink,  chocolate  with  pea 
green,  maroon  with  deep  blue,  claret  with  buff,  black  with  warm 
^reen. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

DYEING,   ETC. 

^  VERYTHrNG  should  be  clean.  The  goods  should  be  scoured 
in  soap  and  the  soap  rinsed  out.  They  are  often  steeped  in 
soap  lye  over  night.  Dip  them  into  water  just  before  putting 
them  into  preparations,  to  prevent  spotting.  Soft  water  should  be 
used,  sufficient  to  cover  the  goods  well — ^this  is  always  understood 
where  quantity  is  not  mentioned.  When  goods  are  dyed,  air,  rinse 
well,  and  hang  up  to  dry.  Do  not  wring  silk  or  merino  dresses 
when  scouring  or  dyeing  them.  If  cotton  goods  are  to  be  dyed  a 
light  color,  they  should  first  be  bleached. 

,  Silks. 

Black. — Make  a  weak  dye  as  for  black  on  woollens;  work  goods 
in  bichromate  of  potash  a  little  below  boiling  heat,  then  dip  in  the 
logwood  in  same  way;  if  colored  in  blue  vitriol  dye,  use  about 
same  heat. 

Brown  on  Silk  or  Cotton — ^Very  Beautiful. — ^After  obtain- 
ing a  blue  color  as  above,  run  goods  through  a  solution  of  prussiate 
of  potash,  one  ounce,  to  water,  one  gallon. 

Crimson. — For  one  pound  goods — alum,  three  ounces;  dip  at 
hand  heat  one  hour;  take  out  and  drain  while  making  new  dye  by 
boiling  ten  minutes,  cochineal,  three  ounces,  bruised  nut-galls,  two 
ounces,  and  cream  of  tartar,  one-fourth  ounce,  in  one  pail  of  watery 
when  little  cool,  begin  to  dip,  raising  heat  to  boil;  dip  one  hour; 
wash  and  dry. 

Green — ^Vert  Handsome. — ^For  one  pound  goods — ^yellow  oak 


^      DYEING,  ETC.  389 

bark,  eight  ounces;  boil  one-half  hour;  turn  off  liquor  from  bark 
and  add  alum,  six  ounces;  let  stand  until  cold;  while  making  this, 
color  goods  in  blue-djre-tub  a  light  blue;  dry  and  wash;  dip  in  the 
alum  and  bark  dye.  If  it  does  not  take  well,  warm  the  dye  a 
little. 

Light  Blue. — ^For  cold  water,  one  gallon,  dissolve  alum,  one-half 
tablespoonf  ul,  in  hot  water,  one  cup,  and  add  to  it,  then  add  chemic, 
one  teaspoonful  at  a  time  to  obtain  the  desired  color — the  more 
chemic,  darker  the  color. 

Old  Gold. — Take  green  horse-radish  leaves,  steep  them  in  water 
and  make  a  strong  dye.  After  dipping  the  silk  or  satin  into  the 
dye  thoroughly,  wash  in  soft  soap-suds.  Iron  while  damp,  laying 
a  cloth  over  the  silk  or  ribbon.  This  should  always  be  done  when 
ironing  silk  or  ribbon,  even  if  it  has  not  been  washed,  but  simply 
sponged.  Black  silk  may  be  sponged  with  cold  coffee  and 
ammonia. 

Orange. — For  one  pound  goods — annotto,  one  pound;  soda,  one 
pound;  repeat  as  desired. 

Purple. — ^For  one  pound  goods.  First  obtain  a  light  blue,  by 
dipping  in  home-made  dye-tub;  then  dry;  dip  in  alum,  four  ounces, 
with  water  to  cover  when  little  warm.  If  color  is  not  full  enough, 
add  chemic. 

Sky  Blue  on  Silk  or  Cotton — Vert  Beautiful. — Give  goods 
as  much  color  from  a  solution  of  blue  vitriol,  two  ounces,  to  water, 
one  gallon,  as  it  will  take  up  in  dipping  fifteen  minutes,  then  run  it 
through  lime  water.  This  will  make  a  beautiful  and  durable  sky 
blue. 

Yellow. — ^For  one  pound  goods — alum,  three  ounces;  sugar  of 
lead,  three-fourths  ounce;  immerse  goods  in  solution  over  night; 
take  out;  drain  and  make  a  new  dye  with  fustic,  one  pound;  dip 
until  required  color  is  obtained. 


/• 


890  DYEING,  ETC. 

Woollen  6ooi>s. 

Blue — Quick  Process. — For  two  pounds  goods — ^alum,  five 
ounces;  cream  of  tartar,  three  ounces;  boil  goods  in  this  one  hour, 
then  put  goods  into  warm  water  which  has  more  or  less  extract  of 
indigo  in  it,  according  to  the  depth  of  color  desired,  and  boil  again 
until  it  suits,  adding  more  of  the  blue  if  needed. 

Chrome  Black — Best  m  Use. — For  five  pounds  goods — ^blue 
vitriol,  six  ounces;  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  dip  goods  three-fourths 
hour,  airing  often;  take  out  goods,  make  a  dye  with  three  pounds 
logwood,  boil  one-half  hour;  dip  three-fourths  hour  and  air  goods, 
and  dip  three-fourths  hour  more.  Wash  in  strong  suds.  This  will 
not  fade  by  exposure  to  sun« 

Green. — For  each  pound  of  goods — ^fustic,  one  pound,  with  alum 
three  and  one-half  ounces;  steep  until  strength  is  out,  and  soak 
goods  until  a  good  yellow  is  obtained;  then  remove  the  chips  and 
add  extract  of  indigo  or  chemic,  one  tablespoonf ul  at  a  time,  until 
color  suits. 

Madder  Red. — ^To  each  pound  of  goods — ^alum,  five  ounces;  red, 
or  cream  of  tartar,  one  ounce.  Put  in  goods  and  bring  kettle  to  a 
boil  for  one-half  hour,  then  air  them  and  boil  one-half  hour  longer; 
empty  kettle  and  fill  with  clean  water;  put  in  bran  one  peck;  make 
it  milk-warm,  and  let  it  stand  until  bran  rises,  then  skim  off  the 
bran  and  put  in  «/ne-half  pound  madder;  put  in  goods  and  heat 
slowly  until  it  boils  and  is  done.     Wash  in  strong  suds. 

Orange. — For  five  pounds  goods — ^muriate  of  tin,  six  tablespoon- 
fuls;  argal,  four  ounces;  boil  and  dip  one  hour,  and  add  again  to 
the  dye  one  cup  madder;  dip  again  one-half  hoar.  Cochineal, 
about  two  ounces,  in  place  of  madder,  makes  a  much  brightei 
color. 

Pink. — ^For  three  pounds  goods — ^alum,  three  ounces;  boil  and 
dip  the  goods  one  hour;  then  add  to  the  dye,  cream  of  tartar,  four 
ounces;  cochineal,  well  pulverized,  one  ounce;  boil  well  and  dip  the 
goods  while  boiling  until  the  color  suits. 


w 


DYEING.  ETC.  391 

Scarlet — Very  Fine, — ^For  one  pound  goods — cream  of  tartar, 
one-half  ounce,  cochineal,  well  pulverized,  one-half  ounce,  muriate 
of  tin,  two  and  one-half  ounces;  boil  up  the  dye  and  enter  the 
goods;  work  them  briskly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  boil  one 
and  one-half  hours,  stirring  goods  slowly  while  boiling.  Wash  in 
clear  water  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

Snufp  Brown — Dark. — For  five  pounds  of  goods— camwood  one 
pound;  boil  it  fifteen  minutes,  then  dip  goods  for  three-fourths  hour; 
take  out  goods,  add  to  the  dye,  two  and  one-half  pounds  fustic;  boil 
ten  minutes  and  dip  goods  three-fourths  hour;  then  add  blue  vitriol 
one  ounce,  copperas  four  ounces;  dip  again  one-half  hour.  If  not 
dark  enough;  add  more  copperas. 

Another  Method — Any  Shade. — Boil  goods  in  a  mordant  of 
alum  two  parts,  copperas,  .three  parts;  then  rinse  them  through  a 
bath  of  madder.  The  tint  depends  on  the  relative  proportions  of 
the  copperas  and  alum;  the  more  copperas  the  darker  the  dye. 
Joint  weight  of  both  should  not  be  more  than  one-eighth  of  weight 
of  goods.  Mixtures  of  reds  and  yellows  with  blues  and  blacks,  or 
simple  dyes,  will  make  any  shade. 

"WnTB  Color. — For  five  pounds  goods — camwood,  two  pounds; 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  dip  goods  one-half  hour;  boil  again  and 
dip  one-half  hour;  then  darken  with  blue  vitriol  one  and  one-half 
ounces;  if  not  dark  enough,  add  copperas,  one-half  ounce. 

Crimson. — Work  for  one  hour  in  a  bath  with  one  pound  cochi- 
neal paste;  six  ounces  dry  cochineal;  one  pound  tartar;  one  pint 
protochloride  of  tin.     Wash  out  and  dry. 

Dove  and  Slate  Colors  op  all  Shades. — Boil  in  iron  vessel  a 
eup  of  black  tea  with  teaspoonfuls  of  copperas,  and  sufficient  water. 
Dilute  till  you  get  the  shade  wanted. 

Purple. — ^For  each  pound  goods — ^two  ounces  cudbear;  rinse 
goods  well  in  soap  suds,  then  dissolve  cudbear  in  hot  suds — not 
<)uite  boiling — and  soak  the  goods  until  of  required  color.  The 
color  is  brightened  by  rinsing  in  alum  water. 


892  DYEING,  ETC. 

Salmok. — For  each  pound  goods — one-fourth  pound  annotto; 
one-fourth  pound  soap;  rinse  goods  in  warm  water,  put  them  into 
mixture  and  boil  one-half  hour.  Shade  will  be  according  to  amount 
of  annotto. 

Yellow — Rich. — Work  five  pounds  goodt\  one-half  hour  in  a 
boiling  bath  with  three  ounces  bichromate  of  potassa  and  two 
ounces  alum;  lift  and  expose  till  well  cooled  and  drained,  then 
work  one-half  hour  in  another  bath  with  five  pou^nds  fustic.  Wash 
out  and  dry. 

Cotton  Goods* 

Black. — For  five  pounds  goods — ^boil  them  in  a  decoction  of 
three  pounds  sumac  one-half  hour,  and  steep  twelve  hours;  dip  in 
lime  water  one-half  hour;  take  out  and  let  them  drip  one  hour;  run 
them  through  the  lime  water  again  fifteen  minutes.  Make  a  new 
dye  with  two  and  one-half  pounds  logwood  (boiled  one  hour),  and 
dip  again  three  hours;  add  bichromate  pot(i.sh,  two  ounces,  to  the 
logwood  dye  and  dip  one  hour.  Wash  in  clear  cold  water  and  dry 
in  shade.     Only  process  for  permanent  black. 

Grbbn. — Dip  goods  in  home-made  blue;  dye  until  blue  enough 
is  obtained  *to  make  the  green  as  dark  as  required;  take  out,  dry 
and  rinse  a  little.  Make  a  dye  with  fustic,  three  pounds,  logwood, 
three  ounces  to  each  pound  goods,  by  boiling  dye  one  hour;  when 
cooled  so  as  to  bear  hand,  put  in  goods,  move  briskly  few  minutes, 
and  let  lie  one  hour;  take  out  and  thoroughly  drain;  dissolve  and 
add  to  the  dye  for  each  pound  of  cotton,  blue  vitrei,  one  half  ounce, 
and  dip  another  hour.  Wring  out  and  let  dry  in  th^  shade.  By 
adding  or  diminishing  the  logwood  and  fustic,  any  shade  may  be 
had. 

Orange. — ^For  five  pounds  goods-^sngar  of  lead,  four  ounees; 
boil  few  minutes;  when  a  little  cool,  put  in  goods;  dip  two  hours; 
wring  out;  make  a  new  dye  with  bichromate  potash,  eight  ouuces; 
madder,  two  ounces;  dip  until  it  suits;  if  color  is  too  red,  take 
small  sample  and  dip  into  lime  water  and  choose  between  thetp^ 


DYEING,  ETC.  393 

Red. — ^Muriate  of  tin,  two-thirds  cup;  add  water  to  cover  goods; 
raise  to  boiling  heat;  put  in  goods  one  hour;  stir  often;  take  out, 
empty  kettle,  put  in  clean  water  with  nicwood,  one  pound,  steep 
one-half  hour  at  hand  heat;  then  put  in  goods  and  increase  heat 
one  hour — ^not  boihng.  Air  goods  and  dip  one  hour  as  before. 
Wash  without  soap. 

Sky  Blue. — For  three  pounds  goods — ^blue  vitrol,  four  ounces; 
boil  few  minutes,  then  dip  goods  three  hours;  then  pass  them 
through  strong  lime  water.  A  beautiful  brown  can  be  obtained  by 
next  putting  goods  through  a  solution  of  prussiate  of  potash. 

Yellow. — For  five  pounds  of  goods — seven  ounces  sugar  of  lead; 
dip  goods  two  hours;  make  new  dye  with  bichromate  of  potash, 
four  ounces;  dip  until  color  suits;  wring  out  and  dry.  If  not  yellow 
enough,  repeat. 

CoLOBiNG  Cotton  Oabpbt  Rags. 

Blue.— For  five  pounds  of  cloth,  take  five  ounces  of  copperas, 
with  two  pails  of  water  in  a  tin  or  copper  boiler;  set  it  over  the 
fire  till  the  copperas  is  dissolved  and  it  begins  to  heat,  then  put  in 
the  cloth,  stirring  it  frequently  till  it  boils,  one-half  or  three-fourths 
of  an  hour;  then  remove  the  cloth  where  it  can  drain;  pour  away 
the  copperas  water  and  take  two  ounces  of  prussiate  of  potash  in 
about  two  pails  of  water  in  the  same  vessel;  when  it  is  well  dis- 
solved and  hot,  put  in  the  cloth  from  the  copperas  water,  stirring 
it  thoroughly  till  it  boils,  one-Half  an  hour,  then  remove  the  cloth; 
add  (with  care  and  caution,  bn  account  of  the  spattering  which 
ensues)  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  oil  of  vitrol,  and  stir  it  well  in  the 
dye;  replace  the  cloth,  stirring  it  briskly  till  it  has  boiled  one-half 
ap  hour.  Should  be  well  riosed  and  washed  in  clear  water  to  pre- 
vent  the  dye  from  making  it  tender  after  coloring. 

Yellow. — For  five  pounds  of  cloth  dissolve  one-half  pound  of 
sugar  of  lead  in  a  tub  of  warm  water  and  twelve  ounces  of  bichro- 
mate of  potash  in  another  tub  of  cold  water;  soak,  rinse,  and  wring 


I 


394  DYEING,  ETC. 

the  cloth  in  the  lead  water  first,  then  in  the  other,  and  return  from 
one  to  the  other,  till  the  right  shade  of  color  is  obtained. 

Obangb. — Dip  the  yellow  colored  cloth  into  strong  lime  water; 
if  it  should  not  turn,  boil  it;  rinse  all  well. 

Grben. — Put  your  blue  cloth  in  the  yellow  dye  in  the  same 
manner  as  for  coloring  yellow.  Old  calico  will  take  a  darker  shade 
of  blue  or  green  in  the  same  dye  with  the  white  cloth. 

To  RsifOTB  Stains. 

We  shall  commence  by  dealing  with  the  most  common  stains^ 
namely: 

Ink  Stains  in  Woollen  Table-Covers  and  Cabpbts  may  be 
removed  by  washing  the  spots  with  a  mixture  of  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
oxalic  acid  in  a  cup  of  warm  water,  after  which  the  places  must  be 
rinsed  with  clean  cold  water  to  take  out  the  acid. 

Another  Method. — Pour  milk  upon  the  ink  directly  and  rub  it 
with  a  damp  flannel;  repeat  until  the  ink  disappears.  Then  wash 
with  flannel  and  water,  and  rub  dry.  When  milk  is  at  hand,  place 
a  plate  under  the  ink  spot  and  pour  milk  on  the  ink.  Allow  it  to 
lie  in  the  milk,  and  when  removed  from  the  table,  if  not  free  from 
ink,  dip  it  in  a  cup  or  basin  of  milk  and  rinse  in  cold  water. 

To  Rebiove  Ink  Stains  from  Floors  or  Mahogany. — Rub  on 
with  a  cork  a  little  spirits  of  wine,  and  wash  it  off  with  water. 

To  Remove  Stains  op  Port  Wine. — Wet  the  stain  with  sherry 
or  bleaching  liquid. 

To  Remove  Mildew. — ^Wash  in  bleaching  liquid. 

Stains  in  Silk. — Stains  in  colored  silk  dresses  can  often  be 
removed  by  pure  water. 

Acid,  Tea,  Wine,  and  Other  Stains. — Stains  caused  by  acids, 
tea,  or  fruits,  can  often  be  removed  by  spirits  of  hartshorn,  diluted 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  water.  To  remove  tar,  pitch,  or  turpen  ^ 
tine  the  spot  may  be  saturated  with  sweet  oil,  or  a  little  tallow  may 


DYEING.  ETC.  396 

be  spread  upon  it,  after  which  it  must  remain  for  twenty-four 
hours.  If  the  article  is  of  linen  or  cotton,  it  must  be  washed  in 
the  usual  way;  but  if  silk  or  worsted,  it  is  to  be  rubbed  with  ether 
or  spirits  of  wine.  Pure  spirits  of  turpentine  will  remove  recent 
spots  of  oil-paint  by  rubbing.  Wax  and  spermaceti  should  be 
scraped  off  and  the  places  where  they  have  been  should  be  rubbed 
with  spirits  of  wine,  spirits  of  turpentine^  or  mephuric  ether. 
Grease  spots  can  commonly  be  taken  out  of  silk  by  means  of  French 
chalk  as  follows:  Scrape  a  little  chalk  upon  the  spot  and  place 
underneath  a  warm  iron  or  water  plate  filled  with  boiling  water. 
The  heat  melts  the  grease,  which  is  absorbed  by  the  chalk  and  it 
can  be  removed  by  rubbing  or  brushing.  It  may  be  needful  to 
repeat  the  process.  A  very  good  stain  mixture  is  made  with  half 
an  ounce  of  salts  of  tartar,  half  an  ounce  of  sal-ammonia  and  half  a 
pint  of  soft  water.  Places  to  which  this  is  applied  should  be 
washed  afterward  in  clean  water.  The  mixture  of  oxalic  acid  and 
water  above  described  will  removiB  ink  stains  and  iron  mould  from 
linen  and  calico.  The  article  must  be  wetted  with  it  and  held  over 
the  steam  of  hot  water,  after  which  it  must  be  washed  with  pure 
water.  If  necessary  the  process  may  be  repeated;  but  it  must  be 
noted  that  the  preparation  is  highly  poisonous. 

Stains  Caused  by  Scohching. — For  whitening  scorched  linen, 
it  is  often  sufficient  to  wet  it  with  soap-suds,  and  lay  it  in  the  hot 
sun.  Another  method,  where  milk  is  plentiful,  is  to  put  one  pound 
of  white  soap  into  a  gallon  of  milk  and  boil  the  scorched  article  in 
it.  Another  plan  is  to  squeeze  out  the  juice  of  two  middle-sized 
onions,  which  is  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  with  one  ounce  of 
white  soap  and  two  ounces  of  fuller's  earth;  the  mixture  is  applied 
cool  to  the  scorched  part,  and  when  dry,  washed  off  with  pure 
water. 

How  TO  Restore  Stained  and  Discolored  Muslins. — Dis- 
colored muslins  may  be  whitened  if  they  are  laid  in  a  fiat  dish  with 
suds  made  of  white  soap,  and  set  out  in  the  sun.  This  takes  time 
and  the  suds  have  to  be  renewed  daily.     In  the  country,  away  from 


396  DYEING,  ETC. 

the  smoke  of  towns,  white  linen  may  be  bleached  by  being  wetted 
with  soap-sads  and  spread  out  upon  the  grass  in  the  sun. 

Stains  Caused  by  Mildew. — Mildew  is  removed  in  several 
ways  from  linen.  Some  dip  the  article  in  sour  buttermilk,  lay  it  in 
the  sun  to  whiten,  and  then  wash  in  clean  water.  Others  apply 
soap  and  chalk,  or  soap  and  starch,  adding  half  as  much  salt  as 
there  is  starch,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Linen. — Stains  in  linen  can  often  be  removed  by  rubbing  them 
with  soft  soap,  after  which  a  starch  paste  is  put  on  and  the  articles 
are  dried  in  the  sun.  This  process  may  need  to  be  repeated  several 
times.  The  soap  and  starch  are  to  be  washed  off  with  pure  cold 
water. 

Stains  on  Mahogany,  Etc. — ^The  marks  made  by  cups  of  hot 
water  on  varnished  tables  may  be  takcm  out  with  a  little  oil  which 
must  be  rubbed  on,  after  which  a  little  spirits  of  wine  must  be  also 
rubbed  in.  A  teaspoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol  in  a  tablespoonf ul  of 
water,  or  the  mixture  of  oxalic  acid  and  water,  above  described, 
will  take  ink  stains  out  of  mahogany.  The  application  is  to  be 
made  quickly  with  a  brush,  or  piece  of  flannel,  and  then  washed  off 
with  milk. 

Silver  and  Electro-plate  Stains. — The  obstinate  dark  stains 
upon  silver  and  electro-plate  may  almost  always  be  removed  by 
means  of  a  little  diluted  sulphuric  acid.  Pour  the  acid  into  a 
saucer,  and,  with  a  linen  cloth  wetted  in  it,  rub  the  stain  till  it  is 
gone.  The  article  should  afterwards  be  treated  to  a  coat  of  fine 
whitening  and  spirits  of  wine.  Let  this  remain  on  for  half  an 
hour;  then  wipe  it  off  with  a  silk  cloth  and  polish  with  soft  wash- 
leather  or  a  plate-brush. 

To  Take  Ink  Stains  from  Mahogany. — Oil  of  vitriol  with 
water,  in  the  proportion  of  about  one  of  the  former  to  two  of  the 
latter,  may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Dip  a  feather  into  it,  just 
touch  the  stains  with  the  end  of  the  feather,  and  at  once  rub  it 
quickly  off. .   In  most  cases  the  ink  stains  will  be  removed  with  it; 


DYEING,  ETC.  397 

if  this,  however,  should  not  be  the  case,  repeat  the  process.  If  the 
vitriol  is  not  at  once  removed,  there  is  a  probability  of  its  merely 
sabstitating  one  defect  for  another — ^a  white  mark  for  a  dark  stain. 

Oil  Stains. — Oil  stains  in  floors  and  carpets  may  be  treated  with 
a  paste  made  of  fuller's  earth  and  water,  which  will  have  to  be 
applied  several  times.  If  this  paste  is  applied  to  colored  textures, 
the  addition  of  a  little  ox-gall  will  preserve  the  colors  from  injury. 
The  paste,  when  dry,  can  be  iremoved  with  a  brutih. 


i 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 


ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

How  TO  Pbotect  the  Dress. 
pADIES  who  do  their  own  work  will  find  that,  in  addition  to  a 

It* 

long  apron,  a  pair  of  calico  sleeves,  with  a  rubber  cord  at 
the  top,  is  a  dispenser  of  happiness.     One  can  slip  them  on 

over  caffs  and  nice  dress  sleeves,  get  tea,  and  even  wash  the  tea 

dishes,  without  injuring  the  dress. 

Putting  Up  CimTAnra. 

When  patting  up  curtains,  which  are  di*aped,  in  a  low  room,  put 
the  cornice  to  which  the  curtain  is  to  be  fastened  close  to  the  ceiling, 
even  if  the  window  is  put  lower  down,  as  it  gives  the  effect  of 
greater  height  to  the  room.  The  curtains  meeting  at  the  top  will 
conceal  the  walL 

WiNBOW  Gabdens. 

Pretty  window  gardens  may  be  made  by  taking  the  tin  boxes  in 
which  mackerel  is  put  up,  paint  them  green  or  scarlet,  and  put  in 
some  plants  that  grow  well  together.  When  watering  them  do  not 
use  more  water  than  will  be  absorbed  during  the  day.  A  few 
experiments  will  soon  enable  one  to  judge  correctly  in  regard  to 
the  amount,  and  it  is  surprising  to  see  how  the  plants  will  thrive  in 
utter  defiance  of  all  the  wise  things  that  are  said  about  drainage. 
The  tin  or  zinc  cases  in  which  thread  is  packed  will  also,  when 
painted  and  placed  in  a  stand,  make  very  good  window  gardens. 
Water  in  which  gridiron  and  frying-pan  have  been  washed  is  an 
excellent  fertilizer. 


ODDS  AND  ENDS.  399 

To  Keep  Boys  and  Oibls  at  Home. 

An  excellent  and  well-tried  recipe  for  keeping  boys  and  girls  out 
of  mischief  in  the  long  winter  evenings  is  to  give  them  something 
suitable  and  interesting  to  do.  Set  them  to  making  scrap-books. 
If  there  are  two  or  three  children,  let  each  one  take  a-  subject,  and 
see  what  and  how  much  each  can  collect  upon  that  for  his  book. 
For  example,  we  have  what  we  call  an  "  Animal  Scrap-Book,"  in 
which  is  pasted  every  fact,  incident,  and  anecdote  we  can  find 
relating  to  animals.  We  have  a  dog  department,  a  horse  depart- 
ment, etc.  It  is  a  valuable  book  for  purposes  of  illustration  or 
Teference. 

Lining  Stair  Carpets. 

It  is  a  common  practice  to  use  bits  of  old  carpet  as  a  lining  for 
stair  carpets,  but  a  much  better  way  is  to  take  strips  of  an  old  bed- 
qnilt,  have  them  not  quite  the  width  of  the  staircase,  wash  and  dry 
first,  then  put  smoothly  over  the  stairs,  tacking  in  a  few  places.  It 
is  softer  than  old  carpet,  and  will  not  wear  the  outer  one  nearly  so 
much.  Of  course  this  is  a  hint  for  those  who  cannot  afford  the 
nice  linings  that  are  made  on  purpose. 

Putting  Away  Woollen  Clothes. 

Great  care  must  be  exercised  in  putting  away  winter  clotFes. 
Clean  paper  sacks,  or  old  cotton  or  linen  pillow  cases,  will  do  to 
hold  them,  providing  there  are  no  holes  in  them.  Take  the  gar- 
ments that  are  to  be  laid  away  out  doora  on  a  summer  day,  let 
them  hang  on  a  line  for  several  hours,  brush  and  beat  all  the  dust 
out,  then  put  into  the  bags;  tie  them  up  so  that  no  moth  can  get 
In,  then  lay  them  on  clean,  dry  shelves,  or  hang  them  up. 

Pretty  and  Simple  Ornaments. 

A  pretty  decoration  for  the  corner  of  a  room  is  a  bunch  of  ripe 
wheat  tied  with  a  bright  ribbon;  or  divide  the  wheat  across  the 
«tems,  tie,  and  hang  over  a  picture.  The  beauty  of  common  things 
is  now  fully  established;  cat's-tails,  sunflowers,  and  dandelions  are 


400  ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

at  length  appreciated.  Acorns  may  also  be  used  to  good  advantage 
for  trimming  fancy  baskets  for  waste  paper;  take  a  piece  of  wire 
and  fasten  around  the  stems,  and  you  can  arrange  them  in  any  way 
to  suit  yourself.  They  are  pretty  bronzed,  or  may  be  used  in  the 
state  of  nature,  as  they  were  picked  up  in  the  woods.  To  bronze 
them,  get  a  little  bronze  powdered  at  a  drug  store,  mix  it  with 
varnish,  and  apply  with  a  soft  cloth.  The  powder  must  be  used 
very  quickly  after  mixing  with  the  varnish,  or  that  will  harden  so 
that  it  will  be  impossible  to  use  it. 

How  TO  Make  an  Old  Japakbsb  Umbrella  Useful. 

Shut  it  partly  together,  then  put  a  wire  around  the  top,  tie  a 
ribbon  to  the  handle,  and  use  it  for  a  scrap-bag  or  a  waste-paper 
bag. 

To  Remove  Paint  and  Putty  fbom  Window  Glass. 

Put  sufficient  pearl  ash  into  hot  water,  to  make  a  strong  solution; 
then  saturate  the  paint  which  is  daubed  on  the  glass  with  it. 
Let  it  remain  till  nearly  dry,  then  rub  it  off  hard,  with  a  woollen 
cloth.  Pearl  ash  water  is  also  good  to  remove  putty  before  it  is 
dried  on  the  glass.     If  it  dries  on,  whiting  is  good  to  remove  it. 

To  Preserve  Natural  Flowers. 
Dip  the  flowers  in  melted  paraffine,  withdrawing  them  quickly. 
The  liquid  should  be  only  just  hot  enough  to  maintain  its  fluidity, 
and  the  flowers  should  be  dipped  one  at  a  time,  held  by  the  stalka 
and  moved  about  for  an  instant  to  get  rid  of  air  bubbles.  Fresh- 
cut  flowers,  free  from  moisture,  make  excellent  specimens  in  this 

way. 

Eggs — ^To  Preserve  for  Winter  Use. 

For  every  three  gallons  of  water,  put  one  pint  fresh  slaked  lime, 

and  common  salt,  one-half  pint;  mix  well,  and  let  the  barrel  be 

about  half  full  of  this  fluid,  then  with  a  dish  let  down  your  fresh 

eggs  into  it^  tipping  the  dish  after  it  fills  with  water,  so  they  roll 

out  without  cra^*king  the  shell,  for  if  the  shell  is  cracked  the  egg 

will  spoil. 


I     ' 


ODDS  ANt)  ENDS.  401 

Chabcoal  fob  Flowbbs. 

It  is  an  aecertained  fact  that  powdered  charcoal,  placed  around 
rose  bushes  and  other  flowers,  has  the  effect  of  adding  much  to 
their  richness. 

To  Rbvivb  Gilt  Fbambs. 

Take  white- of  eggs,  two  ounces;  chloride  of  plaster  or  soda,  one 
ounce;  mix  well;  blow  the  dust  from  the  frame,  and  apply  with  a 
soft  brush. 

Floob-cloths. 

Do  not  put  carpets  in  your  closets;  oil  cloth  or  matting  is  much 
better,  and  can  be  easily  kept  free  from  dust.  Matting  after  being 
swept  should  be  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth.  Hot  salt  and  water  will 
thoroughly  cleanse  it  and  will  not  discolor  it. 

To  Pot  Buttbb  fob  Wenteb  Use. 

Mix  a  large  spoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  white 
sugar,  and  one  of  saltpetre.  Work  this  quantity  into  six  pounds  of 
fresh  made  butter;  put  the  butter  into  a  stone  pot,  that  is  thor- 
oughly cleansed.  When  you  have  finished  putting  down  your 
butter,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  salt,  and  let  it  remain  covered  until 
eold  weather. 

To  Pbbvent  Rust. 

To  prevent  metals  from  rusting,  melt  together  three  parts  of  lard 
and  one  of  rosin,  and  apply  a  very  thin  coating.  It  will  preserve 
Russia  iron  stoves  and  grates  from  rusting  during  summer,  even  in 
damp  situations.  The  effect  is  equally  good  on  brass,  copper,  steel, 
etc.  The  same  compound  forms  an  excellent  water-proof  paste  for 
leather.  Boots,  when  treated  wiih  it,  will  soon  after  take  the  usual 
polish,  when  blacked,  and  the  soles  may  be  saturated  with  it. 

Paste. 
How  many  little  things  are  left  unmended  for  the  want  of  some 
ready-made  paste  in  the  house.     Liquid  glue  is  often  not  strong 
enough  to  hold  thick  material  together;  but  dextrine  answers  all  pur* 


402  ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

poses.  It  is  very  cheap,  is  mixed  with  cold  water,  and  keeps  better 
than  paste  till  next  wanted.  Keeping  some  of  the  powder  in  the 
honse  and  a  special  pot  or  jar  for  mixing,  will  be  found  most 
convenient.  It  can  be  made  thick  or  thin,  to  suit  what  it  is 
required  for. 

French  Polish. 

Boil  in  a  quart  of  liquid,  consisting  of  two  parts  of  vinegar,  and 
one  part  of  water,  one-fourth  pound  of  glue  and  the  same  quantity 
of  logwood  chips,  with  about  the  sixth  part  of  an  ounce  of  the 
following  ingredients:  Soft  soap,  isinglass,  and  finely-powdered 
indigo.  When  boiled  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  it  should  be  strained 
off,  and  when  cold  be  fit  for  use.  It  should  be  applied  with  a 
piece  of  soft  rag  or  sponge,  the  shoes  being  quite  dry  and  free 
from  dirt. 

To  Pbeservb  Steel  Abticlss  from  Rust. 

Paint  the  articles  over  with  white  beeswax  dissolved  in  benzole. 
The  benzole  rapidly  evaporates,  leaving  the  steel  covered  with  a 
thin  coating  of  the  wax.  As  the  solution  is  very  volatile  it  should 
be  kept  in  a  bottle  tightly  corked. 

To  Preserve  Flowers. 

Take  a  jar  sufficiently  large  to  contain  the  flower  to  be  preserved, 
and  in  the  bottom  place  a  lump  of  clay  or  some  similar  substance 
in  which  the  flower  must  be  stuck  upright.  Then  pour  in  carefully 
fine  dry  sand  till  the  flower  is  completely  embedded  in  it.  This 
must  be  done  very  slowly  and  cautiously  so  as  not  to  disturb  the 
leaves  of  the  flower.  Dried  in  this  way,  flowers  preserve  their 
form  and  much  of  their  color  for  months,  and  are  interesting  and 
pretty  for  the  winter  decoration  of  rooms. 

Incombustible  Dresses. 

Ladies'  dresses,  even  of  the  lightest  and  most  inflammable  nature, 
may  be  rendered  almost  completely  fire-proof  by  being  dipped  in  a 
solution  of  the  chloride  of  zinc.  When  they  are  thus  treated^  it 
will  be  found  almost  impossible  to  make  them  blaze  by  contact 


ODDS  AND  ENDS.  403 

with  flame;  or  either  of  the  following  will  answer  the  same  pur- 
pose: 

Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  alum  or  sal-ammoniac,  and  mix  it  with 
the  water  in  which  the  dress  is  rinsed. 

Half  the  weight  of  whiting  mixed  with  the  starch  will  render 
lace,  net,  muslin  gauze,  or  any  other  light  stuff,  perfectly  unin- 
flammable. 

Homb-Made  Table  Syrup. 

Take  one  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  pulverized  alum,  put  in  a  kettle  and  boil  three 
minutes.  Strain  while  hot.  For  maple  syrup,  one  quart  of  water 
for  four  pounds  of  sugar. 

,The  Chromograph. 

The  copygraph,  chromograph,  and  a  variety  of  other  names  have 
been  given  to  the  simple  arrangement  by  which  letters,  drawings, 
plans,  music,  etc.,  can  be  copied  at  a  slight  cost.  The  process  has 
been  patented  in  England,  but  in  advance  of  any  patent  in  this 
country,  a  number  of  persons  have  made  the  article  and  advertised 
it  for  sale  at  prices  varying  from  three  dollars  to  seven  dollars  and 
flf ty  cents,  according  to  size,  in  either  case  allowing  very  handsome 
profits,  A  tablet  of  gelatine  is  prepared  thus:  Take  one  part  by 
weight  of  gelatine  (glue  will  do  just  as  well),  soak  in  two  parts  of 
water  till  melted,  to  which  add  four  parts  of  glycerine,  with  a  few 
drops  of  carbolic  acid,  and  suflicient  whiting  or  white  lead  to  give 
the  whole  a  milky  appearance.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  shallow 
zinc  or  tin  dish,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  twelve  hours. 
The  use  of  the  whiting  or  white  lead  is  to  show  up  the  writing  on 
the  composition,  and  to  enable  the  washing  off  to  be  observed  more 
easily.  The  ink  used  is  made  of  one  part  violet  methylated  aniline 
(Hoffman's  purple),  seven  parts  distilled  water,  and  one  part  alcohol; 
but  acetic  rosaniline,  boiled  down  in  alcohol  till  it  does  Bot  run  in 
writing,  forms  a  capital  red  ink.  To  use  the  process,#write  on  a 
hard-finished  paper  with  the  ink,  taking  care  that  the  writing  is 


404  ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

thick  enough  to  show  a  green  luBtre  when  dry.  When  thoroughly 
4ry  place  it  face  downwards  on  the  jelly,  rub  it  gently  to  bring  it 
well  into  contact,  and  leave  for  three  minutes,  then  peel  it  off.  It 
will  leave  a  portion  of  the  ink  neatly  transferred  to  the  jelly;  theo 
place  the  paper  to  be  printed  on  the  writing  and  pass  the  hand 
over,  bring  it  well  in  contact  as  before,  peel  it  off,  and  it  will  bring 
away  a  perfect  copy  of  the  original.  In  this  way  sixty  to  eighty 
copies  may  be  made;  by  using  a  thick  pen  and  plenty  of  ink  one 
hundred  good  copies  may  be  taken.  If  the  original  still  shows  a 
green  lustre,  another  transfer  may  be  made.  When  exhausted,  wash 
off  the  ink  from  the  jelly ,ijrith  a  sponge  and  cold  water.  A  layer  of 
the  compound  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  would  give,  five  thousand 
copies  at  least,  if  not  twice  that  number.  If  the  jelly  is  injured  it 
can  easily  be  melted  down  over  a  spirit  lamp  or  in  an  oven.  After 
melting,  and  in  the  first  instance  after  making,  the  surface  should 
be  washed  with  cold  water. 

Lime  Water. 

One  of  the  most  useful  agents  of  household  economy,  if  rightly 
understood,  is  lime  water.  Its  mode  of  preparation  is  as  follows: 
Put  a  stone  of  fresh  unslacked  lime  about  the  size  of  a  half -peck 
measure  into  a  large  stone  jar  or  unpainteji  pail,  and  pour  over  it 
slowly  and  carefully  (so  as  not  to  slacken  too  rapidly),  a  teakettle 
full  (four  gallons)  of  hot  water,  and  stir  thoroughly ;  let  it  settle, 
and  then  stir  again  two  or  three  times  in  twenty-four  hours.  Then 
'  bottle  carefully,  all  that  can  be  poured  off  in  a  clear  and  limpid 
state. 

Uses. — It  is  often  sold  by  druggists  as  a  remedy  for  children's 
summer  complaints,  a  teaspoonful  being  a  dose  in  a  cup  of  milk,, 
and  when  diarrhoea  is  caused  by  acidity  of  the  stomach,  it  is  an 
excellent  remedy,  and  when  put  into  milk  gives  no  unpleasant  taste, 
but  rather  improves  the  flavor. 

When  put  into  milk  that  might  curdle  when  heated,  it  will  pre- 
vent its  so  doing,  and  can  then  be  used  for  puddings  and  pies.     A 


ODDS  AND  ENDS.  405 

little  stirred  into  cream  or  milk,  after  a  hot  day  or  night,  will  pre- 
vent its  turning  when  used  for  tea  or  coffee. 

It  is  unequalled  in  cleansing  bottles  or  small  milk  vessels,  or 
babies'  nursing  bottles,  as  it  sweetens  and  purifies  without  leaving 
an  unpleasant  odor  or  flavor. 

A  cupful,  or  even  more,  mixed  in  the  sponge  of  bread  or  cakes 
made  over  night,  will  prevent  it  from  souring. 

Pbbsebving  Autumn  Leavbs. 

These  may  be  easily  preserved  and  retain  their  natural  tints,^r 
nearly  so,  by  either  of  the  following  methods:  «As  they  are  gath- 
ered they  may  be  laid  between  the  leaves  of  a  magazine  until  the 
book  is  full,  and  left  with  a  light  weight  upon  them  until  the  mois- 
ture of  the  leaves  has  been  absorbed;  two  or  three  thicknesses  of 
paper  should  intervene  between  the  leaves.  If  the  leaves  are  large 
or  in  clusters,  take  newspapers,  lay  them  on  a  shelf  and  use  in  the 
same  manner  as  above.  Then  dip  the  leaves  into  melted  wax  (such 
as  is  used  for  moulding  fruits,  etc.),  into  which  you  will  have  to 
put  a  few  drops  of  turpentine  and  lay  upon  newspapers  to  harden 
perfectly.  This  will  make  the  leaves  pliable  and  natural,  and  give 
sufficient  gloss.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  the  wax  is  of  the 
right  temperature.  This  can  be  ascertained  by  the  first  leaf  which 
is  dipped  in.  Draw  out  gently  over  the  pan  both  sides  of  the  leaf 
and  hold  it  up  by  the  st^em.  If  the  wax  is  too  hot,  the  leaf  will 
shrivel — if  too  cool,  it  will  harden  in  lumps  on  the  leaf. 

Another  method  is  to  iron  each  leaf  with  a  middling  hot  iron 
until  the  moisture  is  all  out  of  them.     Are  best  without  varnish. 

Skeleton  Leaves. 

Boil  the  leaves  in  equal  parts  of  rain  water  and  soft  soap  until 
you  can  separate  the  pulp  from  the  skin;  take  them  out  into  clear 
water;  lay  the  leaf  to  be  cleaned  on  glass,  the  upper  side  of  the 
leaf  next  to  the  glass;  then  with  a  tooth  brush  remove  all  pulp  and 
skin,  turn  the  leaf  and  repeat  the  process;  when  thoroughly  done 
put  the  leaf  to  bleach  in  this  solution:  One  pound  sal  soda,  dis- 


406  ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

solved  in  five  pints  rain  water;  one-half  pound  chloride  of  lime,  in 
three  pints  water;  allow  twenty-four  hours  for  the  latter  to  dissolve. 
Strain  out  the  sediment,  and  pour  out  the  clear  solution  of  lime  into 
the  solution  of  sal  soda.  The  result  will  be  a  thick  buttermilk 
solution,  otherwise  the  lime  was  not  strong  enough.  Filter  this 
until  it  is  perfectly  clear.  For  leaves,  use  one  part  of  solu- 
tion to  one  part  of  water;  for  ferns,  use  the  solution  full 
strength.  When  perfectly  white,  remove  to  clear  water;  let 
stand  for  several  hours,  changing  two  or  three  times;  the 
\asi  water  should  be  a  little  blue;  float  out  on  paper,  press  in 
books  when  nearly  dry.  In  mounting  use  mucilage  made  of  five 
parts  of  gum  arabic,  three  parts  white  sugar,  two  parts  of  starch; 
add  a  very  little  water,  boil  and  stir  until  thick  and  white. 

To  Rbstobe  Fbozen  Plants. 

As  soon  as  discovered,  pour  cold  water  over  the  plant  wetting 
every  leaf  thoroughly.  In  a  few  moments  it  will  be  crystallized 
with  a  thick  coating  of  ice.  In  this  state  place  it  in  the  dark,  care- 
fully covered  with  a  newspaper.  The  ice  will  slowly  melt,  leaving 
the  plant  in  its  original  state  of  health. 

Fob  Cbystallizing  Gbass. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  rock  alum,  pour  on  three  pints 
of  boiling  water;  when  quite  cool  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  vessel, 
hang  in  your  grasses,  a  few  at  a  time.  Do  not  let  them  get  too 
heavy,  or  the  stems  will  not  support  them.  You  may  again  heat 
alum  and  add  more  grasses.  By  adding  a  little  coloring  it  will 
give  variety. 

FbOSTIHG  tor    WlNBOTJBi^. 

To  shut  out  a  disagreeable  view  from  a  back  window,  the  glass 
may  be  rendered  ornamental,  and  the  obnoxious  objects  shut  out, 
by  a  very  simple  plan,  which  makes  a  fair  imitation  of  ground  glass. 
By  washing  the  glass  over  with  a  hot  saturated  solution  of  Epsom 
salts,  or  sal-ammoniac,  or  Glauber's  salts,  or  blue  stone,  very  beau- 
tiful effects  of  crystallization  can  be  obtained  by  which  the  above 


ODDS  AND  ENDS.  407 

purpose  is  served  and  the  window  has  also  a  very  ornamental 
appearance.  By  a  saturated  solution  is  meant  one  containing  as 
much  of  the  salt  as  the  water  will  dissolve.  The  -solution  must  be 
applied  while  hot  and  with  a  brush. 

Black  Tracing  Paper. 

Rub  smooth  a  little  lampblack  and  mix  with  sweet  oil.  Paint 
over  the  paper,  and  dab  it  dry  with  a  fine  piece  of  linen.  Put  this 
under  the  pattern,  and  upon  the  material  to  which  you  wish  the 
pattern  transferred,  and"  go  over  the  lines  with  a  hard  point  of 
wood  or  metal.  If  you  wish  it,  the  transferred  lines  may  be  fixed 
by  using  a  pen  with  a  kind  of  ink  coinposed  of  a  little  stone-blue 
well  mixed  with  water  in  a  cup,  with  a  small  piece  of  sugar  added 
to  it. 

Sympathetic  Ink. 

One  of  the  best  known  kinds  of  sympathetic  ink  consists  of  a  weak 
solution  of  chloride  or  nitrate  of  cobalt.  Writing  executed  with 
such  a  solution  is  invisible  until  warmed,  when  it  appears  ^een  or 
bluish,  disappearing  on  exposure  to  moist  air. 

Valuable  Cement. 

Two  parts,  by  weight,  of  common  pitch,  and  one  part  gutta 
percha,  melted  together  in  an  iron  vessel,  makes  a  cement  that 
holds  together,  with  wonderful  tenacity,  wood,  stone,  ivory,  leather, 
porcelain,  silk,  woollen,  or  cotton.     It  is  well  adapted  to  aquariums. 

Cement  for  Rubber  or  Leather. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gutta  percha  in  one-half  pound  chloro- 
form. Clean  the  pat^  tc  be  certlented,  cover  each  with  the  solu- 
tion and  let  them  dry  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  warm  each  part  in 
the  fiame  of  the  candle,  and  press  very  firmly  together  till  dry. 

Diamond  Cement.      •       . 

Dissolve  thirteen  ounces  of  white  glue  in  a  glue-pot  containing  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  soft  water;  when  the  glue  is  dissolved,  stir  in 


408 


ODDS  AND  ENDS. 


three  ounces  of  white  lead,  and  boil  till  well  mixed;  remore  from 
-     fire,  and,  when  cool,  add  half  a  pint  of  alcohol;  bottle  imme- 
diately and  keep  well  corked. 

Weights  and  Measubbs. 

Ten  eggs  are  equal  to  one  pound.       * 

One  pound  of  brown    sugar,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  pow- 
dered or  loaf  sugar  broken,  is  equal  to  one  quart. 

One  pound  of  butter,  when  soft,  is  equal  to  one  quart. 

One  pound  and  two  Ounces  Indian  meal  is  equal  to  one  quart. 

One  pound  and  two  ounces  of  wheat  flour  is  equal  to  one  quart. 

Four  large  tablespoons  are  equal  to  one-half  gill. 

Eight  large  ^  tablespoons  are  equal  to  one  gill. 

Sixteeti  large  tablespoons  are  equal  to  one-half  pint. 

A  conmion-sized  wineglass  holds  half  a  gill. 

A  common-sissed  tumbler  holds  half  a  pint. 

Four  ordinary  teacups  of  liquid  are  equal  to  one  quart. 


cxt^e^er 


* 


j^ift 


^4:^' 


^ 


^/pi 


-rr /->// 


r    ^  / 


tec 


A 


> 

r 


^ . 


1/  ■ 


^>.ri  y 


L^-- 


/ 


J 


C. 


r  thick 

itilth* 
Applj 
•dgM 

In  tb« 


Such  exorbitant  prices  are  demanded 
for  butter  during  midwinter  and  nim- 
mei  that  many  housewives  would  be 
glad  to  puKhaae  a  euppljr  during  the 
qtring  and  fall,  when  it  is  much  cheaper, 
to  last  tbrou^  the  intervening  eeasooB 
if. they  were  certain  of  being  able  to 
keep  it  aatiHfactoriljr.  I  have  found 
by  actual  test  that  if  perfectly  fresh 
butter  it  made  into  sntall  rolls  or 
blocks  of  two  or  three  pounds  each, 
wrapped  in  fresh  wlut«  cloths  and  sub- 
merged in  a  large  jar  of  strong  brine 
it  can  be  kept  perfectly  fresh  from 
April  until  August  or  Septmnber. 
Care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  rolls 
well  under  brine;  and  as  so  little  is 
taken  out  at  a  time  it  is  consumed 
befttfe  becoming  contaminated  by  air. 


f 


MtHced  -Rjti«.-Take  a  coki,  roast  fowl: 
cut  or  all  tbe  white  meat,  and  putthijbonrt 
and  skin,  with  the  trimmings  into  a  stew- 
pan.  adding  a  bunch  of  sayory  herbs,  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  a  pint  of  broth;  or,  in 
lieu  of  the  latter,  the  same  ijaantity  of 

7? :f  '  »  ^^  ^*°  ^"^^^  *  gentle  fire  and 
let  the  l/quor  stew  for  three-quarters  of  im 
hour  then  atrain  it  off  and  thicken  it  with 
a  mue  butter,  flour  and  cream.    Have  the 

?  !,  r,."^'  ""*°^  ^^'T^  *»«  ^«t*»  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  and  season  it  with  a  little 

pepper,  salt  and  powered  mace.  Pat  it 
tato  the  8tew.pan,  pour^be  grayy  on  it,  and 
^  JiU  ^t  thoroughly  hot.  but  do  not  let  it 
boiL  Ptoce  some  slioes  of  toasted  bread  on 
•  hot  dish,  spread  the  mineed  fowl  over 
them  and  serve  at  once. 

Mmc0d  Beef.^T$ke  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  beef  cut  from  the  rump  and 
.  mtnce  it  fine,  together  with  a  quarter  of  a 
I  pound  of  baoon  and  a  good  siaed  onion  or 
I  two  or  three  smaU  ones,  seasoning  the  mix- 
ture with  pepper  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg.   Now  make  a  half  a  pint  of  stock  by 
dissolving  two  twwpoonfuls  of  Johnston's 
fiuid  beef  In  ahalf.pint  of  bolUog  water, 
rut  this  with  the  mineed  beef  into  a  stew- 
pan  and  when  It  has  simmered  for  a  few 
minutes  stir  In  a  dessertopoonful  of  LeaJk 
Perrin's  Worcestershire  sauce.    Have  ready 
wme  pieces  of   lightly  browned    toast -I 
arrange  these  on  a  hotidish.  and  spread  the 
minced  beef  on  top  of  the  slices,  crowning 

each  slice  with  a  nicely  poached  egic.   Serve 
'  immediately. 

^  Cyster  Force  ifeaf-Takea  doaen  and  one- 
half  of  fresh  oy«iers.  beard  them  and  cut 
them  in  quarters.  Then  with  half  a  pint  of 
finely  «med  bread  crumbs  mix  two  ounces 
of  butter  which  has  been  cut  up  into  bits. 
Mix  these  with,  the  oyster,  flavoring  tte 
mixture  wfth  herbs  and  se*isonicg  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
^  Then  bind  the  whole  with  two  beaten  yolks 
of  egg  and  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor. 

Heef   Cfl*e«.~Take    some    rare-cooked, 
cold  roast  beef  and  mince  it  very  fine ;  then 
boil  and  mash  some  white  poutoes  and  add 
them  to  the  meat,  making  the  mixture 
three-fourths  meat  and  one-f uunh  potatoes 
3N0W  add  ffTsouple  of  sprigs  of   parsley 
miocedflne,  mU  all  well  together  and  bind 
it  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.    Form 
the  mixture  into  cakes  about  half  an  inch 
.  thick;  and  about  as*  big  around  as  a  t«»cup, 
I  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  fry  until  nicely 
'  browned  Jn  hot  beef  drippingiT    Whin 


r 


I 


f 


HA.RBLED  GHOOOLATS  CAXE,  MO.  29.  \ 

Tc  the  Editor  of  the  Hotm  i)«parlmeiU:  J 

Muko  a  batter  as  for  white  cake,  takeout  ono  toa- 
cup,  add  to  it  flvo  tablespoons  of  grated  cbooolave, 
moisten  with  rnllk'  and  flavor  wlih  raulUa,  pour  a 
layer  of  the  xrUite  batter  into  the  ba)(iQg-pan,  then 
drop  tbe  cLocolato  l)atter  with  a  spoon  In  spots  and  ■ 
spread  the  remainder  of  the  whtfe  batter  over  It. 
Kaklingtok,  Ky.  MiXNUt  fi.  Goodxll. 


'i 


DKUCIODS  CUOCOZ«ATfi  CASE,  NO.  80. 

7'o  the  Editor  qf  the  Uoma  Dtpartment: 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  suirar,  one  of 
buttor,  three  full  cups  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,' 
three  teaflpoons  baking  powder.    Beat  the  butter  lo-l 
a  cream,  stir  in  sugar  and  beat  until  light;  add  the{ 
milk,  then  the  flour  and  beaten  whites.    When 
beat«^n  well,  divide  into  equal  parts,  and  Into  hal 
grato  a  cake  of  sw^ot  choeolatcu    Bake  in  layers,! 
spread  with  custard,  and  alternate  the  white  and 
dark  cakes.   For  custard  tor  ofike,  add  a  tab!e9pooj% 
of  butler  to  one  plui  of  milk  and  let  it  oome  to  a 
boil,  Biir  in  two  eg^n  beacon  with  ono  cup  of  suj^ar 
and  add  two^teaspoOuH  of  oorn  starch  dissolved  in 
a  little  milk.                           Minnix  B.  Qoodkll. 
£aslington,  Ky.    

CHOCOLATE  CAXU  NO.  81. 
T<i  the  Editor  qfthe  HoniA  DepartTtient: 

One  and  oue-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-h^If  cup  but* 
ter,  oue-half-cup  miik,  three  eggs,  two  cups  flour, 
one  iea»poonful  baking  powder.  Chocolate  mix- 
ture: Clue  cup  chocolate,  one-halt  cup  milk,  one 
ef  c,  sugar,  vanUia,  boil  thlcJc,  when  cold  stir  this 
with  the  ingredietiis  before  Che  mixture  and  bake. 

211DDLKT0WN,  :^.  Y.  JOSIB. 


CREAM  CHOCOLATE  CAKE,  NO.  82. 
To  tht  Editor  of  the  Home  DcpartnierU: 

One  cup  of  sugar,  ona  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  This  will  make  four 
layers.  For  filling:  A  cake  and  a  ha)t  of  sweet 
chocolate  grated  flue,  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  and 
set  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water  until  dissolved. 
Flavor  to  tnsio.  'l*wo  cups  powdered  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  then  set  it  on  the  stove  and  stir  until 
dissolved,  then  let  it  boil  Ave  miuutea  without  stir- 
ring, then  spread  the  chocolate  ou  top  and  bottom 
of  c:'.^:oa  very  ttiltl  and  put  the  cream  between. 

Ml i>D LKTOWN,  N.  Y.  Joan. 


"i 


; 


'• 


^/Several  w«»p!t?»  a^w  .^iuu  ./uo  a-nuod  for  atoclpo  for 
•plcillug  cHbJ>uK'*,  bill  as  yot  no  is  unwort  haro  beoo 
received,  A  Irieurl  furnishcri  ua  wllU  tb«  following 
rule,  alihouph  sho  ooni<t  not  rIvoc  the  eJtoct  propor- 
tions, never  liavtug  m-  asured  f.©  Bplo#«,  and  so 
Whoever  trlns  U  luuol  seuHon  lo  t?  fte.  FirHt  cut  ui) 
the  t-atbj:  ,'f-  in  tUm  slices  (nUher  ^^th  a  knife  or  ft 
cabt  .1^0  cutt-r),  thtix  cliop  .i  up  very  fine.  Add  m 
litt!t*  salt,  a  llctio  while  n^ustrn '.  35.0U,  a  Wf^  litlU* 
caycnnrt  popper  Hn«l  a  littlo  hur'-i  pepper;  quite  a 
llttlo  i»u*«ir.  P'Jt  in  an  eartboii  jar  and  j^aok  it 
down  art  U;»btly  sa  posaiblo  anci  j>our  on  enoupli 
pood  elder  vinegur  to  a  liulo  loore  lUan  cover  It. 
Put  it  away  in  a  cool  place  aud  let  it  st*ad  for  liov- 
eral  dayti  before  uninir.  This  is  gotKI  for  boUi 
piirpl6  and  wtiito  c&h\^a.iz(». 

LEOPAUD    CAKfi, 
Tc  tfif  E(HtOT  of  the  Home  De/Ktrtm/fnt: 

In  tho  TKLtiGKASiof  January  I?  I  eatr  a  requoat 
from  Minrilo  B.  Goo<l»ll,  EarlU^vton,  Ky.  for  a 
roofpe  for  leopard  ea!£r;,also  ono  f  ^om  Mrs.  C  A.  L. 
Korwlch,  N.  Y.,  for  a  Inyer  cako  mad"  of  the  whiles 
•  of  cg.i<«  and  wurrauictl  uol  to  fail;  both  of  whic!i  I 
can  auBtver  and  ftiti  i.l>Kt«d  lo  sei^Ol  some  01  my 
recipes*  lor  oih<>:.-i  in  eX'';;anj*e  for  I'lio  many  •xcol- 
©nl^■:l"^»  1  h/*v.'  r-oni  truj  llunio  Deiiiiiimeul: 

l.ECPAHD  CAKn  {v.-uiTK)-Oiu'  cup  »u  -ar,  on«-haJf 
cup  butiei,  w  hi  Los  tiiree  opip*,  one-half  cup  aour 
milk,  one-half  te.'i»p(»ou  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream 
tarUu'f  one  hjuI  one-hall  cup**  flour. 

Dark  Battj8.u— Oac'haif  cup  moJatjsee,  one-quar- 
tor  t  ip  brown  sugar,  one-qaarier  cup  butler,  one- 
quarter  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  Hour,  one-h.ilf  tea- 
Bpoou  sotla,  ono  teaspoon  cream  tarla^.  one-half  of 
tt  nutmej;,  ono  t«'a8iK)on  chmamon,  one-half  tea- 
spoon all.-^pice,  one-half  tettapoon  clovj-g.  Drop  In. 
altcrnati*  npooufuls.  light  and  black.  This  raak<>h 
one  larsre  h>af  an  1  keeps  well.  It  Is  not  a  mistake 
Qslug  cream  tartar  and  soui*  milk,  for  ^if  made  ac- 
cording to  the  recipe  it  is  ezcellent.  I  hare  nevar 
k;i:wii  it  to  full. 

XVHTTE     OAKR. 

Onoo!idonc-lmll  oupy  -nuar,  one-half  cup  butter 
ono-hiU  fup  tjwcet  n.iik,  two  and  ou%-half  cuo.^ 
fluur,  w  *\\l  '6  of  Ave  e'.'g.-*  b  aten  siifi,  tw4  teaspoons 
bakipg  ptnnlcr  in  th<-  Hour,  or  saleratus  knd  cr^am 
turlnr  c;iu  Ix'  used  If  j)reierred-  L'roam  ttiiwer  and 
i'^^''-r,  then  ivW  milk  and  whites  of  e^gs,  tiieu  floiir 
I  ^V  •'^  pinrii  of  salt  improves  most  anyi^jn,!  ^f 
u.il'-vH  tlio  butter  is  very  sally.  ThVk  cake 
ors.  ilBk  A- 


%      \  i'juv  layori 
\     V,  N.  Y. 


VBUD  CAXM. 
A  th*  Sditor  qf  tk$  ll<mu  Dapartnunti 

Two  eupa  siuear,  one  cup  eweet  mOk,  two  eggSir 
fjor  tablespoons  melted  Ur^^  three  teaepocms  bak* 
Iitf  powder;  Add  fiour  to  make  quite  stifl.    BoU  out 
and  fry  a  <li*llcate  brown  In  hot  lard. 

SufOtA,  N.  T.  KM.  BL  J.  a 

OOLD-WATEB  CASS. 

2b  ths  Editor  9f  tik«  Hom»  D^Mtimtnt: 

I  win  send  a  white  qpAe  reolpe  for  Mzm.  G.  A*  L^: . 
Tbree*caps  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  cold 
water,  balf  cup  butler,  whites  of  four  asvs  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  It  can  be  mad^  In  layers 
or  In  a  loaf  and  is  delldona.       Mbs.  J.  H.  PSBOB. 

SocKisrxft,  N.  Y.   

anvOKBBBBAO. 

Ti>  tha  Sditor  ^  ih4  Hom»  Dtpartmsnt: 

Hero  is  a  redpe  for  gingerbread  for  Mrs.  B.  M.  &, 
Lawrencevllle,  Pa.:  One  egg,  one  oup  sugar,  one 
cup  molassoa,  one  cup  lard,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
tour  teaspoonf uls  soda,  two  teaspoonfols  ginger, 
flour  enough  to  roll  soft. 

To  bo  oaten  warm.  JlBS.  &  I* 

OUTEB's  MIXX8,  Luzerne  oountj,  FAi 

OXKOEBBBBAD. 
To  tht  Editor  <^  the  II<nn«  Depart^nmU: 

I  saw  by  the  Txlkokax  of  January  81  that  IL  X. 
S.,  of  LawrencoviUe,  Pa.,  wanted  a  recipe  for  ginger 
bread.  I  send  the  following:  Two>thirdsof  acupof 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cap  butter 
and  lard  miztJ,  one  cup  sugar,  one  big  spoonful 
baking  soda,  one  big  spoonful  ginger.  Hoping  she 
will  be  pleased  with  It,  I  remain,  rery  respectfully, 

Altoona,  Pa.  ILlttxb  A.  DBLa 

CnoCOLATB    CAKB. 
To  tht  Editor  of  the  Uome  Department: 

Following  is  an  excellent  recipe  for  diooolate 
cake:  Ond  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet 
milk,  one  of  comsiarcli,  two  of  flour,  two  teaspooa- 
fuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten 
stilT;  mix  together;  flavor  to  taste.  Icinc— Beat  the 
yolks  of  tho  eg$cs,  swoeien  and  add  chocolate  lo 
taste,  ono  rup  milk;  cook  a  fow  minutes,  stirring 
continually,  ijui  do  not  boll;  flavor  to  taste. 

Pknn  Yan,  N.  Y.  Mbs.  S.  J.  T. 

■e     I 

CAKE  RSTIPE  FOB  MBS.  O.  A.  L. 
To  the  Editor  of  the  Home  Department; 

Ono  cup  butler,  two  cups  sugar,  creamed  togetii- 
er;  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one>halI  cup  corn  starch, 
two  «^up8  and  a  half  flour,  three  teaspoons  hn-i^ttur 
powdor;  add  lastly  the  whiles  of  six  eggs  beaten 
very  si  iff.  i'or  the  frosting:  Two  cups  white  sugar, 
add  a  liiile  whito  B':<^ar  and  boil  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Stir  it  into  the  whites 
of  two  e/gs  beaten  very  stiff  and  flavor  with  vanilla; 
put  it  between  and  on  the  top  before  It  geta  too  0(^4. 
Your  frosting  will  be  smooth  as  glass. 

ELMI&A,  N.  Y.  Mbi.  X.  J.  & 


To  th*  Xdiior  e/the  HimuD^partmrnU 

In  r««dlas  tUe  Tkleoram  of  februafy  14, 1  saw  a 
requMt  <^f  Jet,  Ithaca,  N.  V.,  wishing  aotne  one  to 
,  eenU  a  eLX)U  recipe  for  Sagli»ii  plum  pudding:  Ono 
X>ound  raialns  (scedod),  one  pound  currants,  one- 
half  pound  citron,  one  pound  beef  fiuet  chopped 
fine,  one  poun«l  brown  Bu^ar,  six  eggs,  2  nutmegs, 
one  pound  jlour,  a  Utile  sale  Mix  all  with  milk 
and  boil  in  a  bag  six  hours.  Bauoe  for  the  above: 
One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half 
pint  bollmg  water,  flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Set  lu 
the  top  of  the  tea  kettle  to  steam.  This  is  a  moat 
doUcloua  pudding  and  sauce.  I  have  used  the  same 
for  twenty-flvft  years.  Mas.  J.  U.  W. 

Pout  Jekyij^,  N.  Y. 

leopard  case. 
To  the  Editor  of  (htj  Ilfhne  Department'. 

ilimiie  B.  Goodell,  Earliugtou,  Ky.,  asks  for  a 
leopard  cal£o  recipe.  I  have  one  taken  from  tlie 
Teleguam  about  two  years  ago  wxiich  1  send: 
"Whiles  of  five  eggB,ouo-lialf  teacup  butter,  two  cupa 
white  suj?ar,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  swuet  milk, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon. 
Gold  part— Yolks  of  Ave  eKg«^  one-holf  cup  butter, 
one  cup  sweot  milk,  two  teas j)oons  baking  powder. 
Bark  par*  of  leo;:^ard  cako — One  cup  brown  sugar, 
one-quarter  cup  butter,  one-halT  cup  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  mclaHses,  two  cups  flour,  one  egg,  one- 
half  teaspoon  so<la,  all  kluds  of  spices. 

When  put  Into  the  pan  to  bake  If  put  In  by 
Bp'-)nfui3  the  diilerent  colors  will  make  it  look 
more  leopnr«Hlke  than  each  color  all  together. 
Mrs.  J.  W.  B-'s  name,  Canisteo,  N.  Y.,  la  signed  to 
this  recipe.  I  take  it  from  my  scrafHbook.  Yours 
respectfully,  S.  J.  Lockwoon. 

Gjknkya,  N,  T.  

PtJDDINO     RECIPE. 
Tt  the  EdiVor  of  the  Honia  Departntent: 

Ai  the  request  of  Jet,  Ithaca,  I  Inclose  plnm  pud- 
ding recipe  of  moderate  richness:  Beat  together  till 
creamy  one  coffeeoup  of  sugar,  the  same  of  butter, 
and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs;  then  add  a  cup  of  black 
molassej*,  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  ji^round  all.spicx),  cinnamon  and  clovos,  and 
half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Boat  all  these  together  for 
fliteen  miuutes,  then  add,  very  gradually,  one  cup 
Bwoct  n)Uk,  then  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as 
pound  cake,  to  which  has  been  added  throe  heap- 
lug  teeapooas  of  Royal  baking  powder;  then  add  a 
cui)  of  fieedless  raisins,  the  same  of  currants,  all 
rolled  in  flour.and  half  a  pound  of  flnely-cut  citron; 
then  add  half  a  cup  of  bruudy.and  lastly  the  whites 
of  flvo  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Butter  the  pud- 
ding (llih  well  and  sieaia  flvo  hours.  To  bo  .eat^^u 
Willi  hard  or  wine  sauce.  ThOHO  puddfujfs  are  said 
to  keep  indcflnltyly.  Tuoy  can  readily  be  steamed 
and  are  Guporior  to  those  freslily  made.  Thoy  can 
be  kept  In  paper  Imzs.  Yours  to  obllgo, 
Vali-wNTa  .SPKiNTt^,  N.  Y.  Miia.  H.  B.  J. 


\ 


CEIITAIN  CURE  FOB  BIPIITHICBIA. 
To  the  Editress  of  tlw.  Home  Department: 

I  have  a  valuable  remmly  which  I  wish  to  send  Xc 
you  foE  publication:  Pour  equal  parts  of  turpentine 
and  liquid  tar  in  an  Iron  pan  or  cup  and  set  flro  U. 
the  mixture.  A  dense  re.  Inous  smoke  arises  whicl 
obscures  the  air  of  the  room,  the  patient  imme 
diately  sf^ms  to  expurlence  relief,  the  rattle  am' 
choking  stops,  the  patient  falls  Into  a  slumber  an< 
seems  to  iuhale  the  smoke  with  pleasure,  the  mem' 
brane  soon  becomes  detached  and  the  patlen 
coughs  it  up.  The  patient  entirely  recovers  li 
three  days.  First  pour  out  two  tablespoons  o 
liquleflcd  tar  and  then  same  of  turpentine  in  ai 
iron  pan,  and  then  set  it  on  Are,  the  rich  reslnoui 
which  arises  to  the  ceiling  is  by  no  means  unpleaa 
ant,  as  It  Alls  the  room;  the  patient's  breathini 
becomes  natural,  and  as  the  smoke  grows  dense 
she  falls  asleep  with  the  above  result  Hopinff  '. 
have  not  taken  up  to  much  of  your  valuable  space 
I  will  retire.    Ecspectfully,       UBS.  K.  B.  COTLI. 

Syracuse,  N.  Y.     

HI^TS. 


c&KAK  oaks. 

Te  tJie  Editrets  of  the  Ho^iie  Department: 

I  lake  the  liberty  to  send  you  a  deliciouf  cake  re- 
cipe, having  seen  so  many  recipes  for  cream  puffs» 
I  think  if  the  ladles  will  try  this  they  will  find  it 
equal  to  cit>am  puffs  and  not  so  difllcult 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  two-third  cupful 
Dutter,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  t«i- 
spoon  of  soda,  one  t^jaspoon  cream  tartar,  three 
cups  flour.  Bake  as  Jelly  cake,  when  cold  spread 
between  them  the  cream,  one-baU  pint  milk,  two 
teaspoons 'corn  starch,  ono  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
any  kind  flavoring,  one-half  cup  sugar.  Heat  the 
milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  wet  with  a 
lliUe  cold  milk;  now  Lake  out  a  little  and  mix  wlUi 
it  the  beaten  Qgg  and  sugar;  return  to  the  rest  of 
the  custard  and  boll,  stirring  ^natantly  until 
■qui  10  thick.  Let  it  cool  before  you  spread  on  the 
cake. 

Hope  I  have  not  taken  up  too  much  of  your  valua^ 
ble  space  in  this.  I  would  like  to  send  some  other 
raluable  recipes,  and  also  some  In  art  for  the  Work 
llisket.  Miss  L.  D. 

;  Elmira,  N.  Y. 
^  £We  hope  tliat  wo  will  often  And  you  a  contributor 

^•oth  of  bur  departments.] 


lA.y.C?,  ni  ITER  TO  KILL  TATtVS. 

O^*'  csp  of  white  suj?:u",  three  e^^s,  butter  the 
sJy^ioX  Ikilf  ajj  oe,pr,  tl;o  jnioe  and  rind  o!"  oiu 
large  kin  on.  I'uc  this,  filter  bcatiui;  it  ^VA, 
ii:to  a  h.  l^hi  !...8in  und  >;et  into  a  pan  of  b^nliU'^ 
water.  tSr.ir  It  coiibtAiitly  uiUil  it  is  .thiolc? 
Siunli  cakes  are  nice  if  sf.lifcaad  put  to.rM:h^i- 
with  this  ^-  i]y.  It  is  also  very  nice  as  u  lair--^ 
1  or  a  layer  cake.  ^ 


>  1.4^. 


■ 


V.^..  ^    .' '     •     -'         >  .-.*  •       ' 


V..'*         '^ 


*        » 


r 


^ 


i 


\        DRINKS  FQff  WVALIDs. 


I 


laJLO 


-««  tinii  Teas. 

foot  oL"?.'^"    *"    ^•f*    «'  '«^«r.  °^^3Hi- 
xeotlons  or  eerere  ttoldo,  is  to  be  hlchr 

commended.    The»e  ^e   two        ^    ' 
wley  water  and   tWck    h^.-* 
iJ^^^J^ls  genei^U-^ifaaha  tableapoon- 
ful  of  flaost^'poafrwirley    in  two  or  three 
water»,  aud  put    it   into    » Jag  or  pitcher, 
with  one  ounce  of  Ual  sugar,  the  thin  yel- 
low rind  and  juice  of  ar  fresh  lemon,  and  a 
grailng  of  nutmeg.     Pour  over  tnis  a  q^^rt 
of  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  allow  ii 
to  stand  for  two  hours.     If  preferred,  blacK 
currant  jelly,   liquorice  cut  fine,  or  orange 
rind  and    juice,    can    be  used  for  flavoring 
this    drink    Instead   of  the  above.     When 
quite  cold,  strain  carefully  and  serve.    The 
thick    barley    water,   which  of  course  con- 
tains more  nourishment,  is  made  In  the  fol- 
lowing   manner:  Wash    thoroughly    three 
tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  and  put  it  in 
a  saucepan,  with  a  quart  of  cold  water,  half 
a  teaepooful  of  salt,    and  the  thin  rind  of  a 
fresh  lemon.     Boll  gently  for  an  hour ;  then 
add  another  pint  of  cold  water  and  boll  for 
an  hour    longer.     Strain   the    liquid  into  a 
pitcher,  and    when  cold,  swoeteu  to  taste, 
nice  water  is  a  most  usef  Ql  drink  in  oases 
of  diarrha3a.    Wash  half  a  pound  of  the  beat 
Carolina  rice,  and  boil  it  In  a  quart  of  water 
for  ten   minutes.     Strain  the  liquid  off  and 
add  more  water,  again  and  again,  until  all 
the  goodness    is    extracted    from  the  rice. 
The    water    may    be    flavored  with  lemon 
rind,  ginger,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  accord- 
ing to  the    taste    and    condition  of  the  in- 
valid.    Before  being  served  to  the  patient, 
the  rice  water  m^*^"*""-*"  "nrafnllv  Htrflined 


a 


:  J?  /k?1^  iemons,  taking  care  that  noB 
.of  the  thick  white  pltih  adheres  to  it.  as  thi 
would  Impart  a  bitter  taste  to  the  lemoi 
ade.     Put  the  rind  idto  a  pitcher  with  tli 
juice  of    the  lemons,  two  ounces  ol  loi 
sugar,  a  small  piece  of  root  ginger  and 
quart  of  boiling  water.      Let  this   stan( 
closely  covered,  until  quite  cold,  then  car 
fuily  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.     Th 
is  simply  a  cooling,  refreshing  drink  whic 
may  be  given  in  nearly  every  oase.  except 
I  Inar  diarrhooa,    dysentery   and    other  con 
I  plaints  of  that  doscrlption. 

To  make  two  quarts  of  lemonade  an  lai 
put  half  a  pint  of  lemon  Julee.  half  a  ptnt< 
white  wine,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  < 
loaf  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  boiling  water  ii 
to  a  pitcher.  Stir  well,  cover  olojiely,  an 
when  cold,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  L( 
the  preparation  stand  over  night,  the 
strain  it  either  through  a  jelly  bag  or 
piece  of  fine  masUn,  and  it  is  ready  for  use 
Oatmeal  gruel  Is  a  hot  drink  very  highl 
i\steemed  in  cases  of  severe  feverish  ooldc 
nr  in  any  other  case  where  a  state  of  pei 
pplratlon  is  desirable.  Mix  a  tablespoor 
i  fui  of  medium  oatmeal  to  a  smooth  past 
j  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add,  by  dc 
grees,  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Sot  thi 
Into  a  saucepan  and  boll  it  gently  fo 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  thei 
seaboii  it  pleasantly  with  salt,  or  sugar  au' 
grated  nutmeg,  according  to  the  taste  c 
the  patient.  Some  like  it  a  sweet  dial: 
others  prefer  it  as  a  savory,  but  served  i 
either  way  it  will  be  found  equally  efface 
clous.  If  the  condition  of  the  invalid  wl 
allow  of  milk  being  used  Instead  of  watci 
of  course,  the  gruel  will  prove  mor 
nourishing.  It  should  be  takeu  as  hot  a 
ssi  ble. 


and    quite    cold,  j^^fy^  .;*lce  gruel  is  made  in  the  same  raanne 

Notwithstandir't'^^^'^ogj  «qQ -.-  \  4ie    above,    only    using  ground  rice  in 

00     very      b\u^\^o  ^      ^       ^^  ^*^^^1JlIin\«l  <>'  oatmeal.  When  sufflcieutly  boiled 
meets    with    if^    ^^^^JUlv^T'on     ,.      '  r      * 
had  it  given  1/   V^j^^'^   '.,    "^^^     I'^JOdda 


I  have  been  H>>^flu'^^;  ^  i 


inviting;  tb^ 


»*>. 


o.  '<>. 


^^ 


^    .  ^.       .     '^^iOBjnum 

toast  \'-*o'^y-'il%m  JreiTl  inn  9„, 


'mm  B 


n  or  flavor  to  taste.  A  tablespoon- 
>d  raspberry  vinogar  is  a  grott*"  *' 
»ment  to  rice  gruel;  or  soraetv^®^ 
if  ul  or   two  of  gome  favorit^^"^  ^^^^^ 

r  thick  milk  mix  two  desse/'-sp^on^u 
arn  flour,  or  arrow  root,  w*^^^^  *  P*"'  ' 
milk,  adding  the  milk  gr-'adualiy.  Be 
Very  clean  saucepan  for-  *  quarter  of  c 
•  then  sweeten  to  tasl'  »  »^^.  if  desire 
»i©  wine  or  brandy,  -''-ind  serve  hot. 
W-ine  or  brandy  If  not  considered  d 
|.ft«t>lo,  the  drink  my  ^0  flavored  with 
|i'r>3i<irops  of  vanilla  /-'^  lemon  flavoring. 
m  ^^ory  custard  ia  made  oxaotly  like  th 
^^,  only  substi*'  siting  beef  tea,  or  son: 
Ciatoiy  propun  *^  brotli,  for  the  mill 
ft  forms  a  ver^  '^  nourishing  drink  for  s 
•Uld,  and  is  al-  ^^^ys  hailed  with  pleas ur 


1  , 


'i^d^j£iL€^  KAm^^u^^u^lJou^  \^Zi 


4.^ 


\ 

\ 


7 


Ccc^^  O^r^-CA.   ^yiC(       ^(^  £^ '-2/\nxJL^I?i^   ^it^ 

f  jji^  -iAjL^ ^^^ci^ 


<  »  .•  tut 


^    i 


•   f 


(JicHl{  -..     .^am^ 


*H.* 


'<U^a      (    .    , 


y 


/    .  .  ■     ■     ■■  ' 


^  » 


1   \.    k 


^X-«^<^*^^  '--^  Y^         ;^ 


„  > 


-'^ 


-^ 


y 


.^. 


I 


i 


7 


-<< 


t< 


'  L.  * 


■>     »• 


'  •  * 


^€  * 


r./j-YV.  I 


-  •.  % 


l^\t{is^^'^'^^'</''^^^/:;' 


K** 


*■    . 


t     X 


^    • 


>l 


1/ 


/  .  ;rt^i»     ^  A  i.-£^"  'Alyl^/ 


■4-»- 


-^OO'  /^riir:(-f:{^    c/^ 


/ 


V.t.  ivUV 


«  .-    * 


•   ♦-  » 


—V 


»■  * 


\ ^ 


li  ?9 


^U 


/ 


{■' 


A 


I 


^  • 


*    » 


V. 


^j-rt   J  c  t  c-w-\« 


r^ 


r 


/" 


\ 


I    /    k      •- 


.,A*_;   CA-»Mo    rxi     r  r/ii  g.*^.^  «*«-^  ""•^  ^{z-«*<.  /    IlOL'A£.u/*^<^     r 
idCi-t-  /  dS^*^    ril/'    i?^-u.^^     «^<    *7^*i^r-    -       ^A-4   ^-^-^ 


v/ 


^ 


v: 


L.K^  /  Ayr-' 


P 


'/i  tec  <}j<'^iu  u4  ^"  ^  t^'^-^'^ 


/ 


X.  ^\j  ^^^i^'ttrv^^^n^WA^^-^ 


>/' 


^'(^IzJ^ 


^1  >c  W^'  litU 


\ 


4     ^Aut-f  <L.  ^o-M^o-  ,»».i^ 


I 


2; 


>}- 


■4vi        "i^..^ 


—* 


/^ 


^ 


U 
// 


/^ 


-»    r 


^t\-t\y    /;  i^>.'  /7f<-j 


1^ 


-''  -  .   /-; 


%  .« 


^..^  .A«-w» 


J^^\tt  J  A^j^/t-' ,'  ' 


— T", 


..^l-..* 


.'  .5' 


«. 


/  V. 


^^tTcTlW 


C^^ 


0 


«>» 


/I 


%-       '^U^fffrtr%^,.UJ[,  o<7     t^"r»t^  <T>-^^    'l/«,^fe-— ^ 


o       -^   ' 


V 


/ 


/ 


t 


V/ 


•<-Vi-"> 


(:2 


'  -  <  ■■  \.   :    z.  i  K       /.  ■  .  of 


/ 


•*<•'*:     ^ 


CHAPTER  XXXV 


THE  SICK  ROOM. 


£  find  the  following  excellent  article  in  Common  Sense  in  the 
Household  : 

'^  The  sick  chamber  should  be  the  most  quiet  and  cheerful 
in  the  house — a  sacred  isle,  past  which  the  waves  of  domestic  toil 
and  solicitude  glide  silently.  iThis  is  not  an  easy  rule  to  obey. 
Whoever  the  invalid  may  be,  whether  the  mother,  father,  or  the 
sweet  youngling  of  tne  flock,  the  foundations  of  the  household  seem 
thrown  out  of  course  while  the  sickness  lasts.  You  may  have  good 
servants  and  kind  friends  to  aid  you,  but  the  hitch  in  the  machinery 
is  not  to  be  smoothed  out  by  their  efforts.  The  irregularity  does 
not  annoy  you;  you  do  not  notice  it  if  the  attack 'be  severe  or 
dangerous.  All  other  thoughts  are  swallowed  up  in  the  all-absorb- 
ing, ever-present  alarm.  You  count  nothing  an  inconvenience  that 
can  bring  present  relief,  or  possible  healing  to  the  beloved  one; 
disdain  for  yourself,  rest  or  ease  while  the  shadow  hangs  above  the 
pillow  crushed  by  the  helpless  head.  But  when  it  passes,  when  the 
first  transport  of  thankfulness  has  subsided  into  an  abiding  sense  of 
safety,  the  mind  swings  back  to  the  accustomed  pivot,  and  your 
eyes  seem  to  be  suddenly  unbound.  You  find,  with  dismay,  that 
the  children  have  run  T^ild,  and  the  comfort  of  the  whole  family 
has  been  neglected  during  your  confinement  to  the  post  of  most 
urgent  duty;  with  displeasure,  that  the  servants  have,  as  you  con- 
sider, taken  advantage  of  your  situation  to  omit  this  task,  or  slur 
over  that — in  fine,  that  nothing  has  been  done  well,  and  so  many 

^  485 


436  *     'fKR  SICK  ROOM. 

things  left  altogether  undone,  that  you  are  worried  out  of  yoor* 
senses — a  phase  that  too  often  signifies  out  of  your  temper. 

"  And  it  is  just  at  this  juncture — when  you  are  called  to  fifty 
points  at  once,  and  are  on  the  verge  of  despair  at  the  conglomera- 
tion worse  conglomerated  arising  before  you;  fidgeting  to  pick 
up  dropped  stitches  in  the  web  you  were  wont  to  keep  so  even — 
that  the  invalid  becomes  most  exacting.  '  Unreasonable,'  you  name 
it  to  yourself,  even  though  it  be  John  himself  who  calls  upon  you 
every  third  minute  for  some  little  ofiice  of  loving  kindness;  who 
wants  to  be  amused,  and  fed,  and  petted,  made  generally  comfort- 
able, as  if  he  were  a  six-months-old  baby;  who  never  remembers 
that  you  must  be  wearied  out  with  watching  and  anxiety,  and  that 
everything  below-stairs  is  going  to  destruction  for  the  want  of  a 
balance-wheel.  The  better  he  loves  you  the  more  apt  is  he  to  fancy 
that  nobody  but  you  can  do  anything  for  him;  the  more  certain  to- 
crave  something  which  no  one  else  knows  how  to  prepare.  And 
when  you  have  strained  muscle  and  patience  a  little  further  to  get 
it  ready,  and  with  prudent  forethought  made  enough  to  last  for 
several  meals,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  his  fickle  taste  will 
suggest  something  entirely  different  for  '  next  time.'  '  Just  for  a^ 
change,  you  know,  dear.  One  gets  so  tired  of  eating  the  same 
thing  so  often! ' 

"  He  might  be  more  considerate — ^less  childish — you  think,  turn- 
ing away  that  he  may  not  see  your  change  of  countenance.  When 
you  have  taken  so  much  pains  to  suit  him  exactly!  It  is  harder  yet 
when  he  refuses  to  do  more  than  taste  the  delicacy  you  hoped  would 
terapt  him. 

"  *  It  is  very  nice,  I  suppose,  my  love,'  says  the  poor  fellow,  with 
the  air  of  a  martyr,  *  but  it  does  not  taste  right,  somehow.  May  be 
the  children  can  dispose  of  it .  If  I  had  a  lemon  ice,  or  some  wine 
jelly,  such  as  my  mother  used  to  make,  I  am  sure  I  could  relish  it. 
I  always  did  detest  sick  people's  diet! ' 

"  If  he  is  very  much  shaken  as  to  nerves,  he  will  be  likely  to  say. 


*  messes.' 


THE  SICK  BOemi      '  427 

"*I  am  fairly  wild!'  said  a  loving  wife  and  mother  and  thrifty 
housekeeper  to  me  one  day,  when  I  called  to  see  her. 

"  She  had  just  nursed  her  husband  and  three  children  through 
the  influenza.  All  had  been  down  with  it  at  once.  That  form  of 
demoniacal  possession  is  generally  conducted  on  the  wholesale- 
principle. 

"  *  I  am  fairly  wild!'  said  the  worthy  creature,  with  tears  in  her 
eyes.  ^  I  cannot  snatch  a  minute,  from  morning  until  night,  to  put 
things  straight,  and  yet  I  am  almost  tired  to  death!  I  was  saying 
to  myself  as  you  came  in,  that  I  wouldn't  try  any  longer;  I  would 
just  sit  still  until  the  dirt  was  piled  up  to  my  chin,  and  then  I  would 
get  upon  the  table ! ' 

^*  How  often  I  have  thought  of  her  speech  since,  sometimes  with 
a  smile — ^more  frequently  with  a  sigh.  But  with  all  my  pity  for 
the  nurse  and  housekeeper.  I  cannot  conceal  from  myself — I  would 
not  forget,  nor  let  you  forget  for  a  moment — the  truth  that  the 
sick  one  is  the  greater  sufferer.  It  is  never  pleasant  to  be  laid 
upon  the  shelf.  The  resting-place — ^falsely  so-called — is  hard  and 
narrow  and  uneven  enough,  even  when  the  tramp  of  the  outer 
world  does  not  jar  the  sore  and  faded  frame;  when  there  is  no- 
apparent  need  for  the  sick  person  to  be  upon  his  feet,  and  for  aught 
that  others  can  see,  or  he  can  say,  he  might  just  as  well  stay  where 
he  is  for  a  month  or  two.  But  when,  the  rack  of  pain  having  been^ 
removed,  the  dulled  perceptions  of  the  mind  re-awaken  to  sensitive- 
ness, and  there  comes  to  his  ear  the  bugle-call  of  duty — sharp, 
imperative; — when  every  idle  moment  speaks  to  him  of  a  slain 
opportunity,  and  the  no  longer  strong  man  shakes  his  fetters  with 
piteous  cries  against  fate,  do  not  despise  or  be  impatient  with  him. 
He  is  feverish  and  inconsiderate  and  capricious,  because  he  is  not 
himself.  You  see  only  the  poor  wreck  left  by  the  demon  as  he  tore 
his  way  out  of  him  at  the  divine  command,  €^ather  it  up  lovingly 
in  your  arms  and  nurse  it  back  to  strength  and  comeliness.  The 
sick  should  always  be  the  chief  object  of  thought  and  care  with  all 
in  the  household.     If  need  be,  let  the  dirt  lie  chin-deep  everywhere 


428  ^  TliJL  SICK  ROOM. 

else,  so  long  as  it  is  kept  out  of  that  one  room.  There  be  jeaiovs 
in  your  care  that  nothing  offend  sight  or  smell. 

'^  There  should  be  no  smell  in  a  sick-room.  To  avoid  this,  let  im 
the  air  freely  and  often.  Cologne  water  will  not  dispel  a  fool 
odor,  and  disinfectants  are  noisome  in  themselves.  Bathe  the 
patient  as  frequently  and  thoroughly  as  prudence  will  allow,  and 
change  his  clothing  with  the  bed-linen,  every  day.  Do  not  keep 
the  medicines  where  he  can  see  them,  nor  even  let  him  witness  the 
nuxing  of  that  which  he  is  to  swallow.  As  soon  as  his  meals  are 
over,  remove  every  vestige  of  them  from  the  room.  Even  a  soiled 
spoon,  lying  on  table  or  bureau,  may  offend  his  fastidious  appetite. 
Cover  the  stand  or  waiter  from  which  he  eats  with  a  spotless  nap- 
kin, and  serve  his  food  in  your  daintiest  ware. 

'^  My  heart  softens  almost  to  tearfulness  when  I  recall  the  hours, 
days,  weeks,  I  have  spent  in  the  chamber  of  languishing,  and  the 
ingenuity  of  tenderness  that,  from  my  babyhood,  has  striven  to 
-cheat  the  imprisonment  of  weariness,  and  tnake  me  forget  pain  and 
uselessneaa.  The  pretty  Burprises  daily  invented  for  my  entertain- 
ment;  the  exceeding  nicety  with  which  they  were  set  out  before 
me;  the  loving  words  that  nourished  my  spirits  when  the  body  was 
faint  unto  death, — ^these  are  events,  not  slight  incidents,  in  the  book 
of  memory.  When  I  cease  to  be  grateful  for  them,  or  to  learn 
from  them  how  to  minister  unto  others  of  the  like  consolation,  may 
my  heart  forget  to  beat,  my  right  hand  lose  her  cunning. 

''  Do  not  ask  your  charge  what  he  would  like  to  eat  to-day.  He 
will,  of  a  surety,  sicken  with  the  effort  at  selection,  and  say, 
^  Nothing.'  But  watch  attentively  for  the  slightest  intimation  of  a 
desire  for  any  particular  delicacy,  and  if  you  are  assured  it  cannot 
hurt  him,  procure  it,  if  you  can,  without  letting  him  guess  at  your 
intention.  Feed  him  lightly  and  often,  never  bring  more  into  his 
«ight  than  he  can  safely  eat.  A  big  bowl  of  broth  or  jelly  wiH 
either  tempt  him  to  imprudence,  or  discourage  him.  *  Am  I  to  be 
burdened  with  all  that? '  cries  the  affrighted  stomach,  and  will  have 
none  of  it.     While  he  is  very  weak  feed  him  with  your  own  hand, 


THE  SICK  ROOM.  429^ 

playfully,  as  you  would  a  child,  talking  cheerily  of  something 
besides  his  food,  and  coaxing  him  into  taking  the  needed  nutriment 
as  only  a  wife  and  mother  can,  or  as  nobody  but  John  could  beguile 
you  to  effort  in  the  same  direction. 

"  Study  all  pleasant  and  soothing  arts  to  while  away  the  time,, 
and  keep  worry  of  every  kind  away  from  him.  A  trifle  at  which 
you  can  laugh  will  be  a  burden  to  the  enfeebled  mind  and  body, 
and  he  has  nothing  to  do  but  lie  still  and  roll  it  over  until  it  swells 
into  a  mountain.  When  he  can  be  removed  without  danger,  let 
him  have  his  meals  in  another  room,  changing  the  air  of  each  when 
he  is  not  in  it.  Every  one  who  has  suffered  from  long  sickness 
kqows  the  peculiar  loathing  attendant  upon  the  idea  that  all  food 
is  tainted  with  the  atmosphere  of  the  chamber  in  which  it  is  served, 
and  if  eaten  in  bed  tastes  of  the  mattrass  and  pillows.  The  room 
and  all  in  it  may  be  clean,  fresh,  and  sweet,  but  fancy  cannot  be 
dismissed.  And  it  is  wiser  to  humor  than  to  reason  with  most  sick 
fancies. 

**  A  hired  nurse  is  a  useful,  often  a  necessary  thing,  but  while 
you  are  upon  your  feet,  and  mistress  of  your  own  house,  delegate 
to  no  one  the  precious  task  of  catering  for  the  dear  sufferer.  It  is 
an  art  in  itself.  I  hope  a  practical  knowledge  of  it  will  be  taught 
iu  Women's  Medical  Colleges;  when  they  are  an  established  *  insti- 
tution' with  us.'* 

Panada. 

Two  thick  slices  of  stale  bread  half  an  inch  in  thickness;  cut  off 
the  crust,  toast  them  a  nice  brown,  cut  them  into  squares  of  two 
inches  in  size,  lay  them  in  a  bowl,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them, 
and  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Areow-Root  Jelly. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  best  Bermuda 
arrow-root,  one  teaspoonf ul  lemon-juice,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  white 
sugar.  Wet  the  arrow-root  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  rub  smooth. 
Then  stir  into  the  hot  water,  which  should  be  on  the  fire  and 


490  TH£  8ICE  ROOM. 

actually  boiling  at  the  time,  with  the  sugar  already  melted  into  it. 
Stir  until  clear,  boiling  steadily  all  the  while,  and  add  the  lemon- 
juice.  Wet  a  cup  in  cold  water,  and  pour  in  the  jelly  to  form. 
£at>cold  with  sugar  and  cream,  flavored  with  rosewater. 

Beef  Tea. 

Cut  all  the  fat  from  a  pound  of  fresh  beef,  then  cut  the  lean  meat 
into  small  dice-like  pieces;  add  one  pint  of  cold  water  to  draw  out 
the  juices;  boil  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  skimming  it  carefnllyy 
then  strain,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Another,  better  for  the  very  sick,  or  for  weak  stomachs:  Put  the 
cut  beef,  prepared  as  above,  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  cork  it  so 
no  water  can  enter;  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water;  prop  it  so 
that  it  will  stand  firmly,  and  boil  one  hour;  then  set  the  kettle 
aside  to  cooL  When  cold,  you  can  safely  remove  the  bottle,  and 
you  have  the  simple  juice  or  essence  of  beef. 

Beef  Tea,  No.  2. 

To  one  pound  of  lean  beef  add  one  and  one-half  tumblers  of  cold 
water;  cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces,  cover  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for 
ten  minutes,  and  add  a  little  salt  after  it  is  boiled.     Excellent. 

Chicken  Panada. 

Skin  the  chicken  and  cut  it  up  into  joints;  take  all  the  meat  off 
the  bones,  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces;  put  it  into  a  jar  with  a 
little  salt,  tie  it  down,  and  set  it  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  It 
should  boil  from  four  to  six  hours;  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve 
with  a  little  of  the  broth.  It  could  be  made  in  a  hurry  in  two 
hours,  but  it  is  better  when  longer  time  is  allowed.  Do  not  put 
the  wings  in  the  panada. 

Egg  Cream. 

Beat  a  raw  egg  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar,  and  half  a  glass  of  home-made  blackberry  or  black  cherry 
wine;  beat  well;  add  half  a  glass  of  cream;  beat  thoroughly  and 
use  at  once.     This  is  a  full  meal  for  an  invalid,  and  is  especially 


THE  SICK  ROOM.  4*^1 

good  where  trouble  of  throat,  mouth  or  stomach  prevents  solid 
food  being  used. 

Soup  for  an  Invalid. 
Cut  in  small  pieces  one  pound  of  beef  or  mutton,  or  a  part  of 
both;  boil  it  gently  in  two  quart's  of  water;  take  off  the  scum,  and, 
when  reduced  to  a  pint,  strain  it.     Season  with  a  little  salt,  and 

take  a  teacupf  ul  at  a  time. 

Grukl. 
Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  com  meal  with  a  little  cold  water;  add  a 
small  pinch  of  salt,  and  stir  it  smoothly  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
'  and  let  it  boil;  being  constantly  stirred  for  six  or  eight  minutes. 
If  sugar  is  desired,  put  it  in  with  the  cold  meal  and  water,  but  add 
aiiy  flavor,  as  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  after  removing  it  from  the 
stove.  Gruel  should  be  very  smooth,  and  should  not  have  the 
faintest  suspicion  of  a  scorch  about  it.     Always  serve  it  neatly. 

Egg  Grxjbl. 
Boil  eggs  from  one  to  three  hours  until  hard  enough  to  grate; 
then  boil  new  milk  and  thicken  with  the  egg,  and  add  a  little  salt. 
Excellent  in  case  of  nausea. 

Gruel  for  Infants. 
To  make  a  gruel  for  infants  suffering  from  ma^'asmus,  take  one 
pint  of  goat's  milk  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  sufficiently 
hard  to  reduce  to  an  impalpable  powder;  add  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  a  little  salt  or  sugar,  and  administer  by  a  nursing  bottle. 

Beef  Jelly  for  iNVALros. 
Three  small  onions,  three  small  or  one  and  one-half  large  carrots, 
a  few  whole  cloves  and  black  pepper,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  one  sUce  of  ham,  two  calf's  feet,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
beef.  Put  in  the  onions  and  other  ingredients  in  succession.  Place 
the  ham  on  top,  then  the  cairs  feet,  and  lastly  the  beef;  no  water; 
put  on  the  side  of  the  range,  and  let  is  stand  until  reduced  to  a  soft 
mass,  then  add  a  quart  of  water  and  let  it  boil  one  hour;  strain  and 
let  stand  until  cold,  then  take  off  the  fat.  Use  by  dissolving  a 
iittle  in  hot  water. 


CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

HEALTH    ITEMS. 

Rbcsipt  pob  Cold. 

|NE  pound  of  liverwort  put  into  four  quarts  of  water  and  boiled 
down  to  one  quart;  add,  while  warm,  a  quarter  pound  of 'ball' 
liquorice  and  a  quarter  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  when  cool  add  a 
half  pint  of  gin.  Dose — ^half  a  large  wineglass  half  an  hour  before* 
each  meal. 

Cough  Mixtube. 

Two  ounces  of  gum  arable,  one  ounce  of  paregoric  elixir,  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon;  mix  with  six  glasses  of  hot 
water.     One  wineglass  to  be  taken  morning,  noon,  and  night 

To  Remove  Warts. 

A  daily  application  of  either  of  the  three  following  remedies  is 
effective  in  dispersing  warts;  Touch  the  wart  with  a  little  nitrate 
of  silver  (lunar  caustic) ;  or  with  nitric  acid  or  aromatic  vinegar. 
The  lunar  caustic  produces  a  black,  and  the  nitric  acid  a  yellow 
stain,  which  passes  off  in  a  short  time;  the  vinegar  scarcely  dis- 
colors the  skin.  Sparks  of  frictional  electricity,  repeated  daily,  by 
applying  the  warts  to  the  conductor  of  an  electrical  machine,  have 
been  also  successfully  employed  as  a  cure  for  these  troublesome 
and  unsightly  excrescences. 

To  PftBVKNT  Nail  Growing  into  the  Toe. 

If  the  nail  of  your  toe  be  hard,  and  apt  to  grow  round,  and  inta 
ihe  comers  of  your  toe,  take  a  piece  of  broken  glass  and  scrape  the 
top  very  thin ;  do  this  whenever  you  cut  your  nails,  and,  by  con* 


HEALTH  ITEMS.  433 

stant  use,  it  makes  the  comers  fly  up  and  grow  flat,  so  that  it  is 
impossible  they  should  give  you  any  pain.     Do  not  fail  to  try  this. 

To  Prevekt  the  Nightmare. 

To  prevent  the  nightmore,  mix  together  ten  grains  carbonate  of 
soda,  three  drachms  compound  tincture  of  cardamoms,  one  drachm 
simple  syrup,  and  one  ounce  peppermint  water.  Repeat  for  several 
nights  in  succession;  afterwards  use  for  a  few  weeks  the  toni^ 
aromatic  mixture.  Also  a  little  Cayenne  in  scullcap  tea  will  pre^ 
vent  an  attack.  Those  who  are  habitually  subject  to  nightmare 
should  not  sleep  in  a  room  alone,  but  have  some  person  near  them 
to  arouse  them  when  attacked  with  it.  A  person  is  most  liable  to 
nightmare  when  sleeping  on  his  back;  in  fact,  it  rarely  occurs  in 
any  other  posture.  Those  subject  to  it  should  therefore  avoid 
sleeping  in  a  bed  which  is  hollow  in  the  center,  as  this  induces  th« 
sleeper  to  lie  on  his  back.  The  bed  should  be  level  and  not  toe 
soft,  and  the  pillow  moderate  in  thickness,  so  that  the  head  is  no( 
raised  too  high. 

The  Use  op  a  Raw  Egg. 

How  often  we  hear  women  who  do  their  own  work  say  that  bj 
the  time  they  have  prepared  a  mt^al,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  tables 
they  are  too  tired  to  eat!  One  way  to  mitigate  this  evil  is  to  take, 
about  half  an  hour  before  dinfter,  a  raw  egg,  beat  it  until  light,  put 
in  a  little  sugar,  flavor  it,  and  drink  it  down.  It  will  remove  the 
faint,  tired-out  feeling,  and  will  not  spoil  your  appetite  for  dinner. 
Plenty  of  fresh  air  in  the  kitchen  does  a  good  deal  to  relieve  this 
trouble,  and  you  do  not  then  take  your  dinner  in  "  at  the  pores,"  as 
Dickens's  old  Joey  declared  he  took  in  the  wine. 

How  TO  Make  a  Sakd-Bag. 

Get  some  clean,  flne  sand,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  kettle  on  the^ 
stove.  Make  a  bag  about  eight  inches  square  of  flannel,  fill  it  with 
the  dry  sand,  sewing  the  opening  carefully  together,  and  cover  the 
bag  with  cotton  or  linen  cloth.  This  will  prevent  the  sand  from 
sifting  out.  and  will  also  enable  you  to  heat  the  bag  quickly  by 


484  HEALTH  ITEMS. 

]>lacing  it  in  the  oven,  or  even  on  the  top  of  the  stove.  After  onoe 
using  this  no  one  will  ever  attempt  to  warm  the  feet  and  hands  of 
a  sick  person  with  a  bottle  of  hot  water  or  a  brick.  The  sand  holds 
the  heat  a  Ions  time,  and  the  bag  can  be  tacked  up  to  the  back 
without  hurting  one.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  two  or  three  of 
these  bags,  and  keep  them  ready  for  use.  Children  with  toothache 
can  be  put  to  sleep  many  a  time  with  one. 

Worm  Remedy. 

One  of  the  simplest  and  best  remedies  to  be  given  to  children,  if 
they  are  troubled  with  worms,  is  poplar  bark.  A  well-known  phy- 
sician has  used  this  for  years  with  marked  success.  It  can  be 
bought  at  any  drug  store,  and  a  little  paper,  costing  five  cents,  Will 
often  prevent  sickness,  and  possibly  save  a  large  doctor's  bilL  If  a 
child  looks  white  around  the  mouth,  with  flushed  cheeks  and  bad 
breath,  it  is  safe  to  infer  that  he  is  afflicted  with  worms.  Take  a 
little  pinch  of  the  bark,  about  as  much  as  one  would  naturally  take  up 
on  the  point  of  a  penknife,  and  give  it  before  breakfast;  it  has  a  dean, 
bitter  taste,  and  there  is  no  difficulty  in  getting  a  child  to  take  it  if 
you  explain  what  it  is  for.  A  good  way  to  regulate  a  child's 
stomach  and  bowels  is  to  give  him  a  little  bowl  of  oatmeal  and 
milk  every  day,  for  breakfast  or  dinner;  see  that  it  is  well  salted, 
as  salt  promotes  digestion.  The  ailments  of  a  child  who  is  in  a 
normal  condition  almost  always  proceeds  from  the  stomach,  and 
much  may  be  done  for  our  children  by  paying  some  attention  to 
their  diet,  and  so  avoid  giving  medicine  as  much  as  possible. 

Sleep  as  ▲  Mbbicinb. 

A  physician  says  that  the  cry  for  rest  has  always  been  louder 
than  the  cry  for  food.  Not  that  it  is  more  important,  but  it  is  often 
harder  to  obtain.  The  best  rest  comes  from  sound  sleep.  Of  two 
men  or  women  otherwise  equal,  the  one  who  sleeps  the  better 
will  be  the  more  healthy  and  efficient.  Sleep  will  do  much  to  cure 
irritability  of  temper,  peevishness,  and  uneasiness.  It  will  restore 
vigor  to  an  over-worked  brain.     It  will  build  up  and  make  strong  9k 


♦' 


HEALTH  ITEMa  435 

weak  body.  It  will  cure  a  headache.  It  will  cure  a  broken  spirit. 
It  will  cure  sorrow.  Indeed,  we  might  make  a  long  list  of  nervous 
and  other  maladies  that  sleep  will  cure.  The  cure  of  sleeplessness 
requires  a  clean,  good  bed,  sufficient  exercise  to  promote  weariness, 
pleasant  occupation,  good  air,  and  not  too  warm  a  room,  a  clear 
conscience,  an  avoidance  of  stimulants  and  narcotics.  For  those 
who  are  over-worked,  haggard,  nervous,  who  pass  sleepless  nights, 
we  commend  the  adoption  of  such  habits  as  will  secure  sleep.       ^ 

New  Curb  fob  Wounds. 

As  soon  as  a  wound  is  inflicted,  get  a  little  stick — a  knife  or  a 
file-handle  will  do — and  commence  to  tap  lightly  on  the  wound. 
Do  not  stop  for  the  hurt,  but  continue  until  it  bleeds  freely  and 
becomes  perfectly  numb.  When  this  point  is  reached  you  are  safe 
— all  that  is  necessary  is  to  protect  it  from  dirt.  Do  not  stop  short 
of  the  bleeding  and  the  numbness,  and  do  not  on  any  account  close 
the  opening  with  plaster.  Nothing  more  than  a  little  cerate  on  a 
clean  cloth  is  necessary.  We  have  used  and  seen  this  used  on  all 
kinds  of  simple  punctures  for  thirty  years,  and  never  knew  a  single 
instance  of  a  wound  becoming  inflained  or  sore  after  treatment  as 
above.  Among  other  cases:  A  coal-rake  tooth  going  entirely 
through  the  foot,  a  bad  bite  of  a  sucking  pig,  several  instances  of 
file-shanks  through  the  hands,  and  numberless  cases  of  rusty  nails, 
awls,  etc.,  but  we  never  knew  a  failure  of  this  treatment. 

A  MusTABD  Plastbb. 

How  many  people  are  there  who  really  know  how  to  make  a 
mustard  plaster?  Not  one  in  a  hundred  at  the  most,  perhaps,  and 
yet  mustard  plast^s  are  used  in  every  family,  and  physicians  pre- 
scribe the  application.  The  ordinary  way  is  to  mix  the  mustard 
with  water,  tempering  it  with  a  little  flour.  Such  a  plaster  as  this 
makes  is  abominable.  Before  it  has  half  done  its  work  it  begins  to 
blister  the  patient,  and  leaves  him  finally  with  a  flayed,  painful 
spot,  after  producing  far  less  effect  in  a  beneficial  way  than  was 
intended.     Now,  a  mustard  plaster  should  never  blister  at  all     If 


436  HEALTH  ITEMS. 

a  blister  is  wanted,  there  are  other  plasters  far  better  than  mnstard 
plasters.  Then  use  no  water,  but  mix  the  mustard  with  the  white 
of  an  egg^  and  the  result  will  be  a  plaster  that  will  '^  draw "  per- 
fectly, but  will  not  produce  a  blister  on  the  skin  of  an  infant,  no 
matter  how  long  it  is  allowed  to  remain  on  the  part. 

A  CuitE  FOR  Diphtheria. 

Dr.  Chenery,  of  Boston,  has  lately  discovered  that  hyposulphite 
of  soda  is  the  specific  remedy  against  diphtheria — that  so  much 
dreaded  ailment,  which  of  late  years  has  carried  off  many  valuable 
lives.  He  reports  a  very  large  number  of  cases  (one  hundred  and 
fifty  within  his  own  practice)  saved  by  the  use  of  this  remedy. 
The  dose  of  the  hyposulphite  is  from  five  to  fifteen  grains  or  more 
in  syrup,  every  two  to  four  hours,  according  to  age  and  circum- 
stances. It  can  do  no  harm,  but  if  too  much  is  given  it  will  purge; 
as  much  as  the  patient  can  bear  without  purging  is  a  good  rule  in 
the  severer  cases.  The  solution  or  mixture  can  be  used  in  doses  of 
five  drops  to  half  a  drachm  in  milk. 

Bilious  Headachb. 

Dissolve  and  drink  two  teaspoonfuls  of  finely-powdered  charcoal 
in  one-half  a  tumbler  of  water.  It  will  relieve  in  fifteen  minutes; 
take  a  Seidlitz  powder  one  hour  afterward. 

A  Remedy  for  Cold  Feet. 
Every  night  on  going  to  bed,  dip  the  feet  in  shallow,  cold  water, 
wvo  or  three  times  quickly,  then  rub  briskly  with  a  coarse  towel  till 
dry:  then  take  hold  of  each  end  of  the  towel  and  draw  it  back  and 
forth  through  the  hollow  of  the  foot  until  a  glow  is  excited. 

The  Opium  HABrr, 

An  eminent  New  York  physician  writes  to  the  Sun  that  the  only 
sure  cure  for  the  opium  habit  is  in  "tapering  off,"  diminishing  each 
dose  by  infinitesimal  deductions,  so    that  the  system  may  adapt* 
itself  to  the  change.     He  cured  himself  in  this  manner,  and  ha^ 
disco vercxl  that  many  of  the  advertised  remedies  proceed  on  the 


HEALTH  ITEMa  437 

flame  principle.  His  habit  was  to  put  thirty  grains  of  morphine  in 
an  eight  -ounco  bottle,  and  take  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  the  mixture,  con- 
taining one  grain  of  morphine,  four  times  a  day.  In  his  next  bottle 
he  put  but  twenty-nine  grains,  in  the  next  but  twenty-eight,  and  so 
on.  The  change  was  very  gradual,  and  caused  no  shock  to  the 
system;  and  the  habit  never  returned. 

Antidotes  for  Poison. 

Soda,  salt,  vinegar,  chalk,  raw  eggs,  mustard,  sweet  oil,  soap,  and 
milk,  are  powerful  remedies  for  poisons,  and  are  in  every  house. 
Send  for  a  doctor,  but  do  not  wait  for  doctor  or  druggist;  go  to 
work.  If  the  poison  is  an  alkali,  vinegar  is  a  remedy.  Freely 
drinking  of  new  milk,  continuing  to  drink  even  when  the  stomach 
cetums  the  milk,  will  destroy  even  arsenic  poisoning. 

If  sulphuric  or  oxalic  acid  has  been  taken,  swallow  a  quantity  of 
chalk;  the  whites  of  raw  eggs  stirred  up  and  swallowed,  taking  six, 
eight  or  i^ore  successively  as  fast  as  possible,  will  destroy  poisons, 
as  corrosive  sublimate;  mustard,  stirred  in  soft  water  and  freely 
drunk,  will  cause  vomiting  and  destroy  poison.  Any  kind  of  oil, 
as  olive,  linseed  or  common  lard  oil,  will  also  destroy  poison. 

Phosphorus,  as  when  children  suck  matches,  give  a  tablespoonful 
of  magnesia  and  then  freely  gum  arable  water;  less  magnesia  if 
only  a  little  phosphorus  is  taken. 

Opium,  as  laudanum  poisoning,  needs  a  strong  emetic;  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mustard' in  a  glass  of  warm  water,  or  a  half  teaspoonf  ul 
of  powdered  alum  in  as  little  water  or  coffee  as  will  carry  it  down, 
and  repeat  the  dose. 

Strychnine  also  demands  a  very  quick  emetic,  as  above,  or  a  heavy 
dose  of  ipecac.  Opium  poison  needs  also  friction,  fanning,  shak- 
ing, cold  water  on  the  head,  and  all  efforts  to  arouse  the  patient. 

Nitrate  of  silver  needs  warm  salt  water  until  a  free  vomit. 

Ammonia  taken  raw  by  accident;  give  new  milk,  olive  oil,  in  ice 
bits,  bind  ice  on  the  throat. 

Sugar  of  lead  needs  lemon-juice,  vinegar,  raw  tomatoes,  and 
finally  a  good  dose  of  Epsom  salts. 


438  HEALTH  ITEMS. 

Prussic  acid^  or  fruit-stone  poisoniDg,  demands  a  good  emetic, 

and  administer  freely  ammonia  and  water. 
Antimony  is  corrected  by  very  strong  green  tea,  and  alum  water. 
After  all  ^ these  remedies,  empty  the  stomach  by  a  clear,  warm- 

urater  emetic,  and  keep  the  patient  in  bed  on  a  raw-egg  diet  for 

thirty  hours. 

EZTERNAX   UsB   OF   CaSTOB    OiL. 

The  London  Medical  Journal  gives  reports  from  various  prac- 
titioners who  have  found  purgative  results  follow  the  inunction  of 
castor  oil.  One  writer  states  that  he  has  frequently  applied  this  oil 
to  the  abdomen,  under  spongiopiline  or  other  waterproof  material, 
in  cases  where  the  usual  way  of  administering  by  the  mouth  seemed 
undesirable,  and  with  the  most  satisfactory  consequences.  In  a  case 
of  typhoid  fever,  also,  half  an  ounce  of  castor  oil  was  applied  in 
this  manner,  under  a  hot  water  fomentation,  the  effect  of  this  being 
as  represented,  to  relieve  the  constipation  and  .tympanitic  distention 
that  had  been  present,  without  undue  purging  or  irritation  of  the 
bowels. 

Treatment  of  the  Supposed  Drowned. 

Dr.  Benjamin  Howard,  in  a  lecture  delivered  before  the  British 
Medical  Association  on  the  "  Direct  Method  of  Artificial  Respira- 
tion for  the  Treatment  of  the  Supposed  Drowned,"  gives  some  very 
useful  hints  for  this  emergency.  Dr.  Howard,  finding  that  the 
directions  recommended  by  the  Royal  Humane  Society  worked 
unsatisfactorily,  were  in  many  respects  difficult  for  other  than 
medical  men  to  follow  out  and  required  the  co-operation  of  at  least 
two  persons,  investigated  the  whole  question  of  the  treatment  of 
the  apparently  drowned,  and  sets  forth  his  objections  to  the  whole 
system,  and  his  arguments  in  favor  of  that  proposed  by  himself. 
His  rules  are  short  and  simple,  being  as  follows:  Instantly  turn 
the  patient  downwards  with  a  large  roll  of  clothing  under  stomach 
and  chest.  Place  one  of  his  arms  under  his  forehead  so  as  to  keep 
his  mouth  off  the  ground.  Press  with  all  your  weight  two  or 
three  times,  for  four  or  five  seconds  each  time,  upon  the  patient's 


HEALTH  ITEMS.  439 

back,  so  that  the  water  is  pressed  out  of  lungs  and  stomach,  and 
drains  freely  out  of  the  mouth.  Then  quickly  turn  patient's  face 
upwards,  with  roll  of  clothing  under  back,  just  below  the  shoulder 
blades,  and  make  the  head  hang  back  just  as  low  as  possible. 
Place  patient's  hands  above  his  head,  kneel  with  patient's  hips 
between  your  knees,  and  fix  your  elbows  firmly  against  your  hips. 
Now — ^grasping  lower  part  of  patient's  naked  chest — squeeze  his 
two  sides  together,  pressing  gradually  forward  with  all  your  weight 
for  about  three  seconds,  until  your  mouth  is  nearly  over  mouth  of 
patient;  then,  with  a  push,  suddenly  jerk  yourself  back.  Rest 
about  three  seconds;  then  begin  again,  repeating  these  bellows- 
blowing  movements  with  perfect  regularity,  so  that  foul  air  may 
be  pressed  out  and  pure  air  be  drawn  into  the  lungs  about  eight  or 
ten  times  a  minute,  for  at  least  one  hour,  or  until  the  patient 
breathes  naturally.  These  directions  must  be  used  on  the  spot,  the 
first  instant  the  patient  is  taken  from  the  water.  A  moment's  delay, 
and  success  may  be  hopeless.  Prevent  crowding  around  the  patient; 
plenty  of  fresh  air  is  important.  Be  careful  not  to  interrupt  the 
first  short  natural  breaths.  If  they  be  long  apart,  carefully  con- 
tinue between  them  the  bellows-blowing  movements  as  before. 
After  breathing  is  regular,  let  patient  be  rubbed  dry,  wrapped  in 
warm  blankets,  take  hot  spirits  and  water  in  small  occasional  doses 
and  then  be  left  to  rest  and  sleep. 

Cure  fob  Burns. 

The  following  cure  was  successfully  tried  by  a  lady  upon  one  of 
her  own  children,  who  was  severely  burned  by  a  little  companion: 
She  wrapped  it  up  completely  with  cotton  wool  or  wadding,  so  that 
not  a  breath  of  air  could  touch  the  body,  and  night  and  dny  kept  it 
saturated  with  vinegar,  which  caused  the  pain  to  cease  immediately. 
She  persevered  until  the  fresh  young  skin  had  formed  a  sufficient 
covering  of  its  own  underneath.  Her  husband,  who  did  not  enter 
quite  so  readily  into  her  system,  lifted  a  little  of  the  wadding  from 
the  cheek  one  day  when  she  was  out,  and  was  charmed  to  see  the 


440  HEALTH  IT£Ma 

new  skin  growing  so  well;  but  the  spot  on  the  cheek  was  the  only- 
scar  the  child  had  when  quite  recovered.  A  quill  leading  to  the 
mouth  served  for  it  to  breathe  and  be  fed  by. 

GrAKDHOTHBB's   SilLVB   FOB   EVERYTHING. 

Two  pounds  of  rosin  and  half  a  cup  of  mutton  tallow  after  it  is 
hard,  half  as  much  beeswax,  and  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  gum; 
put  all  together  into  an  old  kettle,  and  let  it  dissolve  and  just  come 
to  a  boil,  stirring  with  a  stick;  then  take  half  a  pail  of  warm  water, 
just  the  chill  off,  pour  it  in  and  stir  carefully  until  you  can  get  your 
hands  around  it.  Two  persons  must  each  take  half  and  pull  like 
candy  until  quite  white  and  brittle;  put  a  little  grease  on  your 
hands  to  prevent  sticking,  and  keep  them  wet  all  the  time.  Wet 
the  table,  roll  out  the  salve,  and  cut  it  with  a  knife.  Keep  it  in  a 
cool  place. 

Choleba  Remedy. 

Mix  in  a  small  bottle  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  opium  (lauda- 
num), rhubarb,  capsicum,  camphor,  spirits  of  nitre,  and  essence  of 
peppermint,  double  strength.  Shake  well,  and  cork  tight.  Dose: 
From  five  to  thirty  drops  every  fifteen  minutes.  Dose  for  children: 
From  two  to  ten  drops. 

Fig  Paste  fob  Constipation. 

One-half  pound  of  good  figs  chopped  fine,  one-half  pint  of 
molasses,  two  ounces  powdered  senna  leaves,  one  drachm  finely-pow- 
dered coriander  seed,  one  drachm  finely-powdered  cardamom  seed. 
Put  the  molasses  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in 
all  the  rest  and  bring  to  a  boil  again.  A  teaspoonful  once  in  a 
while  is  a'dose.     It  will  keep,  when  covered,  for  a  year. 

Cure  fob  Chilblains. 

Place  red  hot  coals  in  a  vessel,  and  throw  upon  them  a  handful 
of  com  meal;  hold  the  feet  in  the  dense  smoke,  renewing  the  coals 
and  the  meal,  till  the  pain  is  relieved.  This  has  been  known  to 
make  very  marked  cures  when  all  other  remedies  had  failed. 


HEALTH  ITEMS.  441 

Fob  Canker  Sore  Mouth. 
Bum  a  corn  cob  and  apply  the  ashes  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

Curb  for  Corns. 

The  strongest  acetic  acid,  applied  night  and  morning,  will  cure 
hard  and  soft  corns  in  a  week. 

Ring  Worm. 

Put  a  penny  into  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  let  it  remain  until 
it  becomes  green,  and  wash  the  ring  worm  with  this  two  or  three 
times  a  day. 

Curb  For  Rheumatism  and  Bilious  Headache. 

Finest  Turkey  rhubarb,  half  an  ounce;  carbonate  of  magnesia,  one 
ounce;  mix  intimately;  keep  well  corked  in  glass  bottle.  Dose: 
One  teaspoonfnl,  in  milk  and  sugar,  the  first  thing  in  the  morning; 
repeat  till  cured.     Tried  with  success. 

For  Felon. 

As  soon  as  the  pulsation  which  indicates  the  disease  is  felt,  put^ 
directly  over  the  spot  a  fly  blister  about  the  size  of  your  thumb 
nail,  and  let  it  remain  for  six  hours,  at  the  expiration  of  which 
time,  directly  under  the  surface  of  the  blister,  may  be  seen  the 
felon,  which  can  be  instantly  taken  out  with  the  point  of  a  needle 
or  a  lancet. 

Fob  Felon,  No.  2. 

Take  common  rock  salt,  as  used  for  salting  down  pork  or  beef, 
dry  in  an  oven,  then  pound  it  fine  and  mix  with  spirits  o^  turpen- 
tine in  equal  parts;  put  it  in  a  rag  and  wrap  it  around  the  parts 
affected;  as  it  gets  dry  put  on  more,  and  in  twenty-four  hours  you 
are  cured.    The  felon  will  be  dead. 

Toothache. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  London  Medical  Society  Dr.  Blake,  a  distin- 
guished physician,  said  that  he  was  able  to  cure  the  most  desperate 


442  HEALTH  ITEMS. 

case  of  toothache,  unless  the  disease  was  connected  with  rhenma- 
tism,  by  the  application  of  the  following  remedy:  Alum  reduced  to 
an  impalpable  powder,  two  drachms;  nitrous  spirits  of  ether,  seven 
drachms;  mix  and  apply  to  the  tooth.     Tried  with  success. 

Curb  bob  Nbubaloia. 

A  friend  who  suffered  horrible  pains  from  neuralgia,  hearing  of  a 
noted  physician  in  Germany  who  invariably  cured  the  disease,  went 
to  him,  and  was  permanently  cured  after  a  short  sojourn.  The 
doctor  gave  him  the  remedy,  which  was  nothing  but  a  poultice  and 
tea  made  from  our  common  field  thistle.  The  leaves  are  macerated! 
and  used  as  a  poultice  on  the  parts  affected,  while  a  small  quantity 
of  the  same  is  boiled  down  to  the  proportion  of  a  quart  to  a  pint,, 
and  a  small  wineglass  of  the  decoction  drank  before  each  meaL 
Our  friend  says  he  has  never  known  it  to  fail  of  giving  relief,  while 
in  almost  every  case  it  has  effected  a  cure.  God  gave  herbs  for  the 
healing  of  the  nations. 

TlNCTUBB    OF   lODnfB   ON   CoRNfl. 

Dr.  Bajis  states  that  corns  may  be  rapidly  cured  by  the  applica- 
tion of  the  tincture  of  iodine;  the  com  disappearing  in  the  course 
of  a  few  days,  if  touched  with  the  tincture  several  times  a  day.  If 
the  com  be  situated  between  the  toes,  it  should  be  covered  with  a 
piece  of  linen  steeped  in  a  mixture  of  the  tincture  and  glycerine. 

Smallpox  Rbmedt. 

The  following  remedy  a  friend  tried  in  Ohio  in  a  case  of  con- 
fluent smallpox,  when  the  doctor  had  little  hope  of  saving  the 
patient,  and  it  saved  the* woman's  life.  The  remedy  is  sure  in 
scarlet  fever.  "  I  herewith  append  a  recipe  which  has  been  used 
to  my  own  knowledge  in  a  hundred  cases.  It  will  prevent  or  cure 
the  smallpox,  even  though  the  pittings  are  filling.  When  Jenner 
discovered  cow  pox  in  England,  the  world  of  science  hurled  an 
avalanche  of  fame  upon  his  head,  and  when  the  most  scientific 
school  of  medicine  in  the  world  (that  of  Paris)  published  this  pan- 


HEALTH  ITEMS.  443 

aoea  for  the  smallpox,  it  passed  unheeded.  It  is  as  unfailing  as  fate, 
and  conquers  in  every  instance.  It  is  harmless  when  taken  by  a 
well  person.  It  will  also  cure  scarlet  fever.  Take  sulphate  of  zinc, 
ond  grain;  fox  glove  (digitcUis)  one  grain;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
water.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add  four  ounces  of  water.  Take 
a  spoonful  every  hour,  and  either  disease  will  disappear  in  twelve 
hours.     For  a  child,  smaller  doses,  according  to  age." 

For  Htdhophobia. 

Franklin  Dyer,  a  highly  respectable  farmer  of  Galena,  Kent 
County,  Md.,  gives  the  following  as  a  sure  cure  for  the  bite  of  a 
mad  dog.  He  has  tested  it  with  most  gratifying  results:  Elecam^ 
pane  is  a  plant  well  known  and  found  in  many  gardens.  Imme* 
diately  after  being  bitten,  take  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  the  root  of 
the  plant,  the  green  root  is  preferable.  The  dried,  to  be  found  in 
drug  stores,  will  answer;  bruise  it,  put  it  in  a  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
boiled  down  to  half  a  pint,  strain,  and  when  cold  drink  it,  fasting 
at  least  six  hours  afterwards.  The  next  morning  repeat  the  dose, 
fasting,  using  two  ounces  of  the  root.  On  the  third  morning,  take 
another  dose  prepared  as  the  last,  and  this  will  be  sufficient.  After 
each  dose,  nothing  to  be  eaten  for  at  least  six  hours.  I  had  a  son 
who  was  bitten  by  a  mad  dog  eighteen  years  ago,  and  four  other 
children  in  the  neighborhood  were  also  bitten.  They  took  the 
above,  and  are  now  alive  and  well.  I  have  known  many  who  were 
cured.  It  is  supposed  that  the  root  contains  a  principle,  which, 
being  taken  up  by  the  blood  in  its  circulation,'  counteracts  or  neu- 
tralizes the  deadly  effect  of  the  virus  of  hydrophobia.  I  feel  so 
much  confidence  in  this  simple  remedy  that  I  am  willihg  you  should 
give  my  name  in  connection  with  this  statement. 

Flannels  fob  Fomentation. 

Fold  the  flannel  the  size  to  fit  over  the  top  of  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  cover  with  a  lid;  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  hotter  than 
if  wrung  out  of  boiling  water  and  yet  dry  at  the  comers;  roll  it  up 
•overed,  and  convey  quickly  to  the  patient. 


444  HEALTH  ITEMa 

Fob  Hoabssnbss. 
Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  in  a  pint  bowl,  add  loaf  sugar 
(two  tablespoonf uls),  one  teaspoonful  of  glycerine,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  whiskey;  pour  over  this  boiling  hot  water  to  nearly 
fill  the  bowl,  and  drink  hot  just  before  going  to  bed. 

Fob  Sobb  Thboat. 

Cut  slices  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon;  simmer  a  few  moments  in 
hot  vinegar,  and  apply  to  throat  as  hot  as  possible.  When  this  is 
token  off,  as  the  throat  is  relieved,  put  around  a  bandage  of  soft 
flannel.  A  gargle  of  equal  parts  of  borax  and  alum,  dissolved  in 
water,  is  also  excellent.     To  be  used  frequently. 

HsALmo  Lotion. 

One  ounce  glycerine,  one  ounce  rose-water,  ten  drops  carbolic 
acid.  This  preparation  prevents  and  cures  chapping  of  the  skin, 
and  at  the  same  time  bleaches  it.  It  is  also  excellent  for  sore  lips 
and  gums. 

To  Pbeybnt  Contagion  fbom  EBUPrrvB  Diseases. 

Keep  constantly,  in  plates  or  saucers,  sliced  raw  onions  in  the 
sick  room,  if  possible.  As  fast  as  they  become  discolored,  replace 
by  fresh  ones.  During  any  epidemic  of  skin  diseases  that  are 
eruptive,  onions,  except  those  token  fresh  from  the  earth,  are 
unsafe,  as  they  are  peculiarly  sensitive  to  disease. 

Fob  Toothache. 

Of  powdered  alum  and  fine  salt,  equal  quantities;  apply  to  the 
tooth  and  it  will  give  speedy  relief. 

Fob  Headache. 

Pour  a  few  drops  of  ether  on  one-half  ounce  of  gum  camphor 
and  pulverize;  add  to  this  an  equal  quantity  of  carbonate  of  ammo- 
nia pulverized;  add  twenty  drops  peppermint;  mix  and  put  in  an 
open-mouthed  bottle  and  cork. 


■<■  ■*■ 


HEALTH  ITE^S.  445 

To  Stop  Blbbdikg. 
A  handful  of  flonr  bound  on  the  cut. 

To  Restore  fbom  Stroke  of  Lightning. 

Shower  with  cold  water  for  two  hours;  if  the  patient  does  not 
show  signs  of  life,  put  salt  in  the  water,  and  continue  to  shower  an 
hour  longer. 

Salve  for  Chilblains. 

Fry  out  nicely  a  little  mutton  tallow;  into  this  while  melted,  and 
after  it  is  nicely  strained,  put  an  equal  quantity  of  coal  oil;  stir 
well  together  while  it  is  cooling. 

To  Rbmove  Discolobatton  fbom  Bbuises. 

Apply  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  very  hot  water,  and  renew  fre- 
quently until  the  pain  ceases.     Or,  apply  raw  beefsteak. 

Cube  fob  Wasp  Sting. 

Apply  a  poultice  of  saleratus  water  and  flour,  and  bind  on  the 
sting.     Apply  slices  of  raw  onion  for  a  bee  sting. 

Cube  fob  Summeb  Complaint. 

Two  ounces  tincture  rhubarb,  one  of  paregoric,  one-half  of 
essence  of  peppermint,  one-half  of  essence  of  anise,  one  half  of 
prepared  chalk.  Dose  for  adult,  one  teaspoonful  in  a  little  water;, 
take  as  often  as  needed.  . 

The  Best  Deodobizer. 

Use  bromo-chloralum  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoonful  to 
^ight  of  soft  water;  dip  cloths  in  this  solution  and  hang  in  the 
rooms;  it  will  purify  sick  rooms  of  any  foul  smells.  The  surface 
of  anything  may  be  purified  by  washing  well  and  then  rubbing 
over  with  a  weakened  solution  of  bromo-chloralum.  A  weak  solu- 
tion is  excellent  to  rinse  the  mouth  with  often,  when  from  any 
cause  the  breath  is  offensive.  It  is  also  an  excellent  wash  for  sorea 
and  wounds  that  have  an  offensive  odor. 


• 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 


CARE    AND    CULTUBE    OP    CHILDREN. 

Sleep. 

N  infant  in  sound  health  will  sleep  ahnost  continually  during 
the  first  four  or  five  weeks  of  its  life.  All  that  is  necessary 
in  the  interval  is  to  guard  against  accidents  likely  to  create 
disturbance.  Of  these  injurious  incidents,  deficiency  of  warmth, 
want  of  ^cleanliness,  and  over-fatigue,  are  the  most  liable  to  occur, 
<'.onverting  the  happiest  period  of  development  into  a  restless  state 
of  being,  alike  pernicious  to  parent  and  child. 

As  though  to  indicate  the  necessity  for  this  lengthy  repose,  the 
sense  of  hearing  in  a  new-bom  babe  is  very  dull.  Ordinary  con- 
veri^ation  does  not  disturb  an  infant's  slumbers,  although  loud, 
sudden  noises  may  have  that  effect.  In  most  instances,  a  babe  does 
not  appear  to  be  conscious  of  sounds  until  about  the  fifth  or  sixth 
week  of  its  existence.  In  the  meantime  the  necessary  disturbances 
are  confined  to  being  suckled,  washed,  and  changed;  for  which 
duties  occasion  should  be  taken  during  the  short  wakeful  intervals 
which  happen  when  hunger  prevails. 

So  valuable  is  the  repose  which  sleep  affords  throughout  the 
whole  period  of  early  childhood,  that  too  much  pains  cannot  be 
taken  to  cultivate  the  habit  from  the  earliest  moment;  for,  be  it 
observed,  sleep  is  essentially  a  habit  of  our  nature,  and  its  recur- 
rence depends  chiefly  on  regularity  of  living  and  good  health.  At 
appointed  times,  and  certain  places,  infants  should  be  encouraged 
to  submit  to  sleep.  Let  them  understand  that,  after  food  and 
exercise,  it  is  time  to  go  to  bed;  and  a  lesson  will  have  been  learned 

446 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  OHtLDREN.  447 

"wbioh  will  require  no  andtie  force  to  put  into  practice  during  the 
term  of  nurserf  life. 

Infants  born  in  the  winter  and  daring  the  cold  monthB  of  spring, 
reqnire  to  sleep  at  the  mother's  side  for  the  first  few  weeks;  accord- 
ing to  one  anthority,  "for  the  first  few  months,  aa  it  reqaires  the 


warmth  of  another  person's  body,  especially  in  winter."  Bot  the 
strength  of  the  child,  as  well  as  the  weather,  mast  carry  their  due 
weight  in  determining  the  leogth  of  the  time.  Poctors  differ  on 
this  point.     At  all  events,  it  should  lie  alone  when  sufficiently  strong 


448  CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN. 

to  bear  it;  when  sleeping  with  the  mother  it  should  not,  on  that 
account,  be  the  oftener  suckled;  the  mischief  of  the  latter  habit 
does  not  end  with  the  over-taxed  digestion  'of'  the  child.  Few 
mothers  are  able  to  stand  the  drain  thus  made  upon  their  strength, 
and  in  consequence,  "  nursing "  has  to  be  given  up  much  sooner 
than  would  otherwise  be  necessary. 

The  natural  time  for  slumber,  in  very  early  life,  is  immediately 
after  taking  food.  As  the  young  of  almost  all  creatures  show  this 
disposition,  there  can  be  no  harm  in  following  the  dictate.  Oppor- 
tunity,  then,  should  be  taken  to  lay  the  child  in  its  bed,  whether 
awake  or  not,  after  having  been  fed.  A  little  later  in  life,  when 
digestion  is  stronger,  and  the  stomach  is  better  able  to  dispose  of  a 
heavy  meal,  an  interval  is  necessary  between  taking  nourishment 
and  going  to  sleep. 

The  utmost  vigilance  is  generally  necessary  to  prevent  the  habit 
of  sleeping  in  the  nurse's  arms  from  being  contracted.  Most  nurses 
enjoy  a  doze  in  front  of  the  fire — a  luxury  well  earned  by,  perchance, 
a  broken  night's  rest;  but  with  infants  no  such  necessity  is  felt. 
Still,  if  they  are  once  allowed  to  feel  the  soothing  influence  of  the 
fire's  warmth,  combined  with  the  soft  and  pleasant  mcclianical 
movement  of  the  nurse's  knees,  they  speedily  get  rebellious  against 
attempts  to  make  them  lie  alone  in  the  crib.  In  engaging  a  nurse, 
it  is  advisable  to  have  it  clearly  understood  that  the  babe  is  not  to 
be  nursed  on  the  lap  when  asleep. 

The  best-trained  child,  however,  will  not  return  peacefully  to  its 
cot  if  the  bedding  is  not  perfectly  dry  and  comfortable.  After  the 
child  has  been  lifted  out,  "  changed,"  and  fed,  the  pillow  and  mat- 
tress should  be  well  shaken  and,  if  necessary,  wet  blankets  replaced 
by  dry  ones.  Having  put  the  infant  back,  the  light  should  be  par- 
tially Hcreened  or  extinguished.  These  arrangements  require  to  be 
made  in  a  very  methodical  manner,  and  will  have  to  be  repeated  a 
few  times  to  be  fully  understood  by  the  child.  If,  at  the  outset,  a 
cry  of  resistance  should  be  heard  when  it  is  time  to  go  back  to  bed,, 
a  wise  mother  will  conceal  herself  from  sight,  and  turn  a  deaf  ear.. 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OF  CHILDREN.  449 

Sooner  or  later  this  breaking-in  will  have  to  take  place,  and  the 
longer  it  is  delaye^d,  the  greater  will  be  the  trouble. 

About  the  age  of  three  months,  an  infant  does  not  usually  require 
night-feeding  more  frequently  than  when  the  mother  retires  to  rest, 
and  again  toward  five  or  six  in  the  morning.  At  this  age  the 
faculty  of  observation  begins  generally  to  show  itself,  and  affords  a 
golden  opportunity  to  convey  right  impressions  to  the  plastic  infant 
mind.  The  first  objects  of  which  a  child  takes  notice  are  those 
which  are  employed  in  supplying  its  personal  wants.  Thus  the  sight 
of  a  nursing-bottle  will  generally  set  a  child  to  crying  for  food.  In 
like  manner  it  is  a  good  plan  to  appropriate  certain  coverings  to 
the  use  of  an  infant  when  '^  sleeping-time "  is  in  question.  The 
writer  has  known  a  gaily-colored  knitted  rug  to  set  the  tiny  inmates 
of  aitmrseTj  yawning  from  the  mere  associations  which  the  familiar 
wrapper  suggested.  Each  infant  in  turn  had  been  enveloped  in 
that  rug  preparatory  to  going  to  sleep,  and  they  had  not  a  thought 
of  resisting  its  influence. 

The  habit  of  taking  a  mid-day  nap  may  be  advantageously 
observed  till  the  age  of  three  or  four  years  has  been  attained. 
Even  if  the  child  be  not  sleepy  it  is  advisable  to  let  it  lie  in  its  cot 
for  a  certain  time  after  having  taken  exercise,  and  before  dinner. 
If  any  inducement  is  necessary,  there  is  no  reason  why  a  few  toys 
or  a  picture-book  should  not  be  allowed  in  bed.  Pretending  to 
hush  a  doll  to  sleep,  for  instance,  will  often  send  the  child  itself  to 
sleep,  and  is  as  good  a  ruse  as  can  be  adopted. 

Before  putting  the  inmates  of  a  nursery  to  bed,  the  room  should 
be  dark<»ed,  and  the  nurse  should  betake  herself,  if  possible,  to  an 
adjoining  room  for  any  occupation  she  may  have  to  fulfill. 

Care  is  needed  not  to  arouse  a  child  too  suddenly  from  its 
slumbers.    Allow  it,  on  all  occasions  to  waken  of  its  own  accord. 

A  notion  is  prevalent  that  much  sleeping  by  day  lessens  the 
power  of  sleeping  by  night;  bat  this  is  an  error.  As  a  general  rule 
the  more  a  child  sleeps  the  more  it  wants  to  sleep.  Wakefulness 
is  generally  caused  by  over-fatigue  and  excitement,  and  is  a  posi- 

89 


460        CARE  AND  CULTURE  OF  CHILDREN. 

tiyely  painful  state  to  the  Bensitive  organism  of  a  young  child. 
This  description  of  suffering  admits  of  no  alleviation  but  from 
sleep;  reprimands  an^  additional  food  only  increase  the  sufferer^s 
torment. 

It  ought  not  to  be  necessary  to  point  out  the  danger  of  giving 
narcotics  to  young  children.  But  so  long  as  such  remedies  as 
*^  teething  powders,*^  etc.,  are  recommended,  we  must  not  be  sup- 
posed to  ignore  the  fact  that  the  true  nalure  of  such  drugs  is,  not 
to  facilitate  the  process  of  cutting  teeth,  but  to  lull  restless  infants 
into  an  unnatural  sleep.  Long  before  any  disturbance  of  a  child's 
health  is  likely  to  occur  from  teething,  these  compounds  are  apt  to  be 
administered  simply  to  secure  a  quite  flight's  rest.  The  restlessncM 
complained  of  arises,  nine  times  out  of  ten,  from  flatulence  and 
indigestion.  A  fit  of  sleeplessness  may,  in  very  many  instances,  be 
terminated  by  wrapping  the  infant  in  a  warm  covering,  and  exer- 
cising it  in  an  apartment  of  lower  temperature  than  the  nursery. 

In  more  advanced  childhood  than  we  have  hitherto  spoken  of, 
the  importance  of  sleep  is  undiminished,  and  should  be  observed 
with  regularity.  No  invariable  rule  can  be  laid  down  for  general 
observance,  but  most  children  between  the  ages  of  four  and  seven 
years  require,  at  least,  twelve  hours'  sleep.  Ten  hours  are  supposed 
to  be  needful  for  school  boys,  and  eight  for  adults.  Few  children 
under  ten  years  of  age  can  be  kept  out  of  their  beds  after  ten 
o'clock  without  injury  to  their  health.  When  once  awake  in  the 
morning,  they  should  be  accustomed  to  rise  at  once. 
•  Most  parents  go  to  their  childrens'  rooms  before  retiring.  The 
chief  object  in  these  visits  is  to  see  whether  the  little  ones  be  suffi- 
ciently covered,  and  that  no  draughts  be  felt  from  open  windows 
and  doors. 

In  the  winter,  a  few  hours  after  being  put  in  bed,  most  young 
children  require  a  little  additional  covering,  owing  to  the  body 
having  lost  some  of  its  warmth  during  sleep.  Another  precaution 
to  be  taken  is,  that  the  children's  heads  be  sufficiently  raised  to 
prevent  their  breathing  the  air  emitted  from  their  lungs.     Thia 


I>   ' 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OF  CHILDREN.  461 

habit,  if  not  necessarily  fatal,  is  certainly  liable  to  lay  the  seeds  of 
a  consumptive  state,  and  to  produce  an  impaired  constitution.  A 
single  small  pillow  is  generally  sufficient.  One  blanket  should 
always  be  placed  with  the  selvage  ends  across  the  bed,  in  order  to 
allow  plenty  of  room  to  turn  in  under  the  mattress.  Children 
generally  sleep  more  comfortably,  and  suffer  less  from  cold  f eet, 
if  their  bedding  be  slightly  raised  at  the  foot. 

EXEBCISB. 

During  the  first  few  weeks  of  life,  the  disposition  to  sleep  indi- 
cates the  necessity  for  avoiding  anything  like  excitement  to  prema* 
ture  activity.  With  limbs  and  muscles  undeveloped,  and  mental 
powers  unformed,  the  only  exertion  to  which  a  very  young  child 
should  be  subjected  is  that  which  is  occasioned  by  being  washed 
and  dressed.  Gentle  chafing  of  the  limbs  before  a  fire  may  be 
practiced  morning  and  evening  with  benefit  and  pleasure  to  the 
babe.  Not  until  an  infant  voluntarily  seeks  movement,  or  the 
dawning  intelligence  evinces  pleasure  in  passing  objects  should  any 
attempt  be  made  to  disturb  the  order  of  things  established  by 
nature.  This  change  may  generally  be  observed  about  the  third 
month.  In  the  meantime,  the  more  tranquil  an  infant  can  be  kept, 
both  in  mind  and  in  body,  the  greater  are  the  chances  of  unchecked 
development  at  the  proper  period. 

The  practice  of  too  many  nurses  is  at  variance  with  these  simple 
rules.  Uninformed,  generally,  respecting  the  structure  of  the 
human  frj^me,  they  are  apt  to  apply  principles  of  exercise  totally 
unfitted  to  the  tender  organism  of  infancy.  Hence  the  objection* 
able  habit  of  jog-trotting  on  the  knee,  together  with  the  pernicious 
practice  of  inducing  the  babe  to  support  its  head  before  the  spine 
is  strong  enough  to  bear  the  weight.  The  period  when  it  is  safe  to 
encourage  an  infant  to  sit  upright  is  at  the  age  of  seven  months. 
Previously  to  that  time  the  body  should  be  held  only  in  a  semi- 
erect  posture,  either  by  resting  across  the  nurse's  shoulder,  or  by 
placing  the  distended  palm  of  her  hand  against  the  child's  chest. 
It  is  more  necessary  to  observe  these  precautions  against  spinal 


452         CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN. 

weakness  in  time,  because  children  who  may  have  been  injuriously 
managed  at  the  outset  become  restless  when  it  is  attempted  to  keep 
them  in  a  reclining  posture. 

An  exercise  very  congenial  to  the  inclination  of  a  baby  consists 
in  spreading  cushions  upon  the  floor  for  it,  upon  which  to  spread 
itself.  If  no  cushion  be  at  hand,  a  clean  cot  mattress  will  answer 
equally  well.  All  little  ones  revel  in  freedom  from  the  restrained 
posture  of  the  nurse's  arms.  The  above  exercise  is  the  first  step 
toward  learning  to  creep — ^the  most  healthful  and  natural  mode  of 
progression  in  babyhood.  Some  over-anxious  parents  check  this 
habit,  lest  it  should  bring  the  infant  into  danger.  Harm,  however, 
seldom  results,  provided  common  precautions  be  taken.  Another 
prejudice  sometimes  entertained  against  creeping  is  that,  if  a  child 
finds  how  easy  it  is  to  get  along  on  the  hands  and  knees,  it  will  not 
Uy  to  walk.  Here,  again,  the  fears  are  unfounded.  All  children 
are  anxious  to  get  upon  their  feet  as  soon  as  they  feel  themselves 
strong  enough  to  do  so;  but  many  children  do  not  walk  before  they 
are  from  twelve  to  fourteen  months  old.  In  the  meanwhile  creep- 
ing brings  every  limb  into  play  in  manner  proportionate  to  aa 
infant's  strength.  The  best  dress  for  the  creeping  age  is  the  one  in 
which  little  French  children  are  usually  attired — ^a  sort  of  Blnicker- 
bocker  suit,  warm  and  loose,  with  trousers  and  vest  all  of  one  piece. 

The  stage  at  which  infants  begin  to  walk  demands  the  exercise  of 
a  considerable  amount  of  self-control  on  the  part  of  the  parents, 
inasmuch  as  falls  are  inevitable.  These  appear  to  a  looker-on  to  be 
of  a  more  serious  nature  than  they  really  are.  Provided  a  child 
does  not  fall  from  a  greater  elevation  than  his  own  height,  injury 
very  seldom  occurs  from  these  tumbles.  The  most  dangerous  falls 
are  those  from  spring  mattresses  and  seats.  The  suddenness  of  the 
jerk  prevents  a  child  from  saving  itself  by  the  exercise  of  the 
momentary  instinct  which  is  usually  displayed  in  other  cases  of 
impending  danger.  Left  to  themselves,  little  folks  generally  fall 
neatly,  and  manage  to  keep  their  heads  uppermost.  The  cry  which 
is  heard  after  these  accidents  arises  from  surprise  and  mortification, 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN.  453 

and  the  trouble  is  best  treated  as  a  joke.  If,  instead  of  catching 
the  child  up  in  her  arms  and  smothering  it  with  caresses,  accompa- 
nied with  expressions  of  sympathy,  the  nurse  said,  in  a  cheerful 
voice,  ''Jump  up,  and  see  where  you  sat  last,"  the  child's  mind 
would  be  diverted,  and  braced  to  fresh  exertions. 

As  soon  as  the  child  is  able  to  leave  the  house,  it  should  pass  as 
much  of  the  time  as  possible  in  the  open  air.  Even  sleeping  out  of 
doors  does  no  harm  pro>'ided  proper  clothing  be  worn.  Warm 
clothing  for  the  chest,  arms,  legs,  feet,  and  loins  is  essentiaL  The 
head  should  be  kept  cool,  and  the  face  covered  with  a  light  gauze 
material  only.  As  a  general  rule,  the  head-gear  of  an  infant  should 
admit  of  the  free  passage  of  the  air  inhaled  and  exhaled  both  by 
day  and  by  night. 

Perambulators,  under  careful  guidance,  are  a  real  boon  to  both 
nurse  and  child.  If  the  babe  be  healthy,  and  the  weather  suitable, 
there  is  no  reason  why  infants  should  not,  almost  from  the  com- 
mencement, take  daily  exercise  in  a  perambulator.  Children  from 
the  age  of  a  year  old  thrive  better  when  exercised  in  the  open  air 
in  a  perambulator  than  when  carried  in  the  nurse's  arms.  Leas 
fatigue  in  carrying  ensures  less  risk  from  nurse  sitting  down  to 
rest.  It  is  seldom  that  cold  is  taken  when  passing  briskly  through 
the  air;  standing  still  in  draughty  places  is  always  most  carefully 
to  be  guarded  against.  Two  little  ones  can  be  exercised  in  a  double 
perambulator  at  an  age  when  two  nurses  would  be  required  to 
afford  separate  exercise  to  each  child. 

When  the  exercise  of  walking  ceases  to  be  a  pleasurable  excite^ 
ment,  some  inducement  is  needful  to  get  little  folks  along.  The 
daily  walk  consequently  becomes  a  trial  of  patience  to  nurse  and 
child.  The  best  way  to  obviate  this  difficulty  is  to  make  the  walk 
a  secondary  object,  and  some  attendant  amusement  the  ostensible 
one,  such  as  playing  at  horses,  etc. 

Muscular  exercise,  adapted  to  more  advanced  childhood,  has 
received  an  important  accessory  in  the  form  of  gymnastic  appa- 
ratus, of  great  variety  and  simplicity.     They  are  made  for  differc^nt 


I 

454  CARE  AND  CULTURB  OF  CHILDRBN. 

classes  of  strength,  and  are  designed  to  bring  every  muscle  into 
play.  There  are  also  very  many  valuable  courses  of  exercise  for 
which  no  apparatus  of  any  kind  is  necessary. 

Food. 

The  most  suitable  food  for  infants  is  that  of  Nature's  own  pro- 
viding— ^mother's  milk.  In  very  exceptional  instances  is  this  supply 
short-coming  during  the  first  few  weeks  after  child-birth.  If, 
unhappily,  the  contrary  should  be  the  case,  a  delicate  infant  can 
seldom  be  successfully  reared  without  the  aid  of  a  wet-nurse.  The 
only  circumstances  which  should  prevent  a  mother  from  suckling 
her  offspring  are  a  too  excitable  temperament,  or  a  consumptive 
state  of  constitution.  Ordinary  debility,  consequent  or  recent  con- 
finement, is  rarely  an  impediment  to  the  fulfillment  of  one  of  the 
highest  instincts  of  human  nature,  and  one  no  less  productive  of 
moral  than  of  physical  benefits.  During  the  time  a  child  receives 
nourishment  at  its  mother's  breast  the  earliest  bond  of  sympathy, 
destined  to  influence  a  lifetime  of  parent  and  child,  is  naturally 
formed. 

Whatever  changes  it  may  be  found  necessary  to  make  in  the 
dietary  of  an  infant  after  the  age  of  six  weeks,  absolute  necessity 
alone  should  induce  the  substitution  of  artificial  in  lieu  of  natural 
food.  The  first  milk  is  of  a  purgative  nature,  and  is  admirably 
adapted  to  cleanse  the  system  of  a  new-bom  babe.  In  this  par- 
ticular, the  most  desirable  wet-nurse  might  fail  to  prove  a  fitting 
deputy  for  the  mother.  Likewise,  throughout  the  period  of  nursing, 
it  is  a  point  of  great  importance  that  the  quality  of  the  nourish- 
ment should  be  proportionate  to  the  age  of  an  infant.  If  the  ser- 
vices of  a  wet-nurse  are  inevitable,  it  should  be  sought  to  engage 
one  who  has  been  a  mother  about  the  same  length  of  time  as  the 
parent  of  the  infant  to  be  brought  up.  In  selecting  a  wet-nurse  a 
medical  man  is  the  proper  medium. 

During  the  first  two  or  three  weeks,  an  infant,  if  awake,  may  be 
suckled  at  intervals  of  from  one  to  two  hours.  The  sooner,  how- 
ever, the  babe  can  be  brought  into  the  habit  of  being  fed  once  in 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OF  CHILDREN.  465 

two  hoars  the  greater  will  be  the  benefit  derived  from  the  nourish- 
ment, and  the  more  speedily  will  the  mother  be  enabled  to  regain 
her  own  strength.  *  A  determination  to  attain  regularity  in  feeding 
is  all  that  is  needed.  When  this  plan  is  steadily  pursued,  the 
digestion  of  a  child  will  work  with  the  precision  of  the  clock  by 
which  its  meals  are  regulated.  All  cries  should  not  be  supposed  to 
arise  from  craving  for  food.  Numberless  cases  of  irritation  may 
occasion  a  fretful  cry — cold  feet,  pressure  of  clothing,  wet  linen,  or 
other  discomforts.  Instead,  therefore,  of  giving  food  instantly,  it 
is  advisable  to  open  the  clothes,  warm  the  tiny  feet,  chafe  the 
limbs,  or,  if  possible,  take  the  infant  for  a  little  walk  out  of  doors. 
If,  after  having  tried  similar  remedies,  the  f retf ulness  continues, 
the  cause  should  be  sought  in  the  condition  of  the  child's  stools. 
If  signs  of  griping  pains,  or  colic,  be  evident,  less  food  should  be 
given,  and  the  intervals  between  his  meals  lengthened. 

Sometimes  a  cry  of  continual  distress  prevails,  from  the  mother's 
milk  being  not  sufficiently  nourishing  to  satisfy  the  appetite  of  the 
babe.  In  such  cases  it  is  advisable  to  give,  every  night  and  morn- 
ing, a  meal  of  cow's  milk  and  water,  prepared  in  the  following 
manner:  Fresh  milk  and  warm  water,  of  each,  one-quarter  of  a 
pint;  sugar  of  milk,  one  teaspoonfuL  The  latter  should  first  be 
dissolved  in  the  warm  water,  then  the  milk,  unboiled,  mixed  with 
it.  Sweetening  with  sugar  of  milk,  instead  of  lump  sugar,  makes  a 
greater  resemblance  to  the  mother's  milk.  Possibly  the  infant  may 
take  but  half  the  above  quantity;  we  only  giv6  the  recipe  to  show 
the  right  proportions.     An  older  child  might  require  all  at  a  meal. 

The  practice  of  giving  thickened  food  to  infants  at  too  tender  an 
age  is  a  source  of  endless  trouble.  Dr.  Edward  Smith  remarks  that 
the  feeding  of  young  infants  on  bread,  biscuits,  flour,  and  other 
substances  than  milk,  *^  is  a  constant  source  of  derangement  of  the 
liver,  and  a  frequent  cause  of  fits."  As  a  general  rule  a  baby 
ought  to  be  entirely  nourished  on  milk  until  the  first  tooth  appears. 

''Up  to  six  or  seven  months  of  age  infants  have  not  the  power 
of  digesting  farinaceous  or  fibrinous  substances."    After  that  age 


456  CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN. 

many  descriptions  of  f arinaceons  food  may  be  used,  and  are  to  be 
strongly  recommended.  Beef  tea,  veal,  chicken,  or  mutton  broth 
are  apt  to  tarn  acid  and  canse  flatulence  or  sickness,  and  should 
not  be  given  without  medical  advice.  Care  should  be  observed  in 
every  change  of  infants'  diet,  especially  if  teething  be  in  operation. 

A  very  necessary  treatment  after  a  meal  consists  in  lifting  the 
babe  across  the  nurse's  left  shoulder,  whether  awake  or  asleep,  and 
gently  patting  the  infant's  back  until  the  wind  displaced  by  the 
food  is  thrown  off  the  stomach.  Wherever  this  precaution  is  used 
gripes  and  windy  colic  are  seldom  heard  of. 

The  period  of  weaning  is  one  of  great  anxiety.  Make  the  change 
gradually.  A  little  self-restraint  in  keeping  out  of  sight  when  the 
child  may  naturally  be  supposed  to  be  hungry,  is  the  greatest  act 
of  kindness  to  the  little  one.  The  most  favorable  time  for  weaning 
is  in  warm  weather,  when  the  infant  can  be  amused  and  kept  much 
out  of  doors. 

The  utmost  cleanliness  should  be  observed  in  every  detail  con- 
nected with  the  keeping  of  all  utensils  for  nursery  use.  When 
removed  from  the  bottle,  the  Indiarrubber  top  should  be  immedi- 
ately placed  in  a  glass  of  clean  water,  and  the  bottle  cleansed-  of 
every  trace  of  food,  and  twice  a  day  rinsed  out  with  tea-leaves  and 
water.  When  not  in  use  the  bottle  should  be  hidden  from  the 
infant's  sight. 

Rics  Jelly. 

One-half  cup  whole  rice,  well  washed  and  soaked  two  hours  in  a 
little  warm  water;  then  added,  with  the  water,  to  that  in  the  kettle 
three  pints  cold  water,  one  small  pinch  of  salt,  put  into  the  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar.  Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour; 
then  boil  until  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  and  the  water  is  reduced  one- 
half.  Strain  through  double  tarlatan,  sweeten,  and  give  to  the 
child.  This  is  an  admirable  preparation  for  an  infant  suffering 
with  weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  be  no  fever,  you  may  put 
one-third  part  milk,  boiled  with  the  rice.  Give  a  few  spoonfuls 
every  hour  or  half  hour. 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OF  CUlIiUREN.  457 

Abbowboot. 

One  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  fresh  milk,  two  teaspoonfuk 
best  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  with  cold  water,  one  small  pinch  of 
salt,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 
Stir  the  arrowroot  paste  into  the  salted  boiling  water;  stir  and  boil 
five  minutes  or  until  it  is  clear;  add  the  sweetened  milk,  and  boil 
ten  minutes,  slowly,  still  stirring.  If  the  child  has  fever,  or  cannot 
digest  milk,  substitute  hot  water  for  it.  It  is,  however,  a  dangerous 
experiment  to  forbid  milk  altogether  for  an  infant.  It  would  be 
better  to  diminish  the  quantity,  putting  in,  say,  one-third  or  one- 
fourth  as  much  as  the  receipt  names,  and  filling  up  with  boiling 

water. 

Milk  and  Bbbad. 

One-half  cup  boiled  milk,  two  tablespoonf uls  stale  Graham  bread, 
a  very  little  sugar.  Crumble  the  bread  into  the  boiled  milk, 
sweeten,  and  when  cool  enough,  feed  to  the  child  with  a  spoon. 

Whbaxbn  Gbits. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  grits  (cracked  wheat)  soaked  in  a  little  cold 

» 

water  one  hour,  and  then  put  into  the  kettle;  one  quart  boiling 
water,  one  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  the  soaked  grits  in  the 
quart  of  water  one  hour,  stirring  up  often;  add  the  milk  and  boil 
half  an  hour  longer.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  if  the  child  is  well, 
pour  cream  over  it.  This  is  designed  for  children  over  a  year  old. 
It  is  slightly  cathartic;  especially  if  the  milk  be  omitted,  and  is 
most  useful  in  regulating  the  bowels.  When  this  can  be  done 
without  drugs,  it  is  far  better. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 

One-half  cup  small  hominy,  one  scant  quart  of  cold  water,  pinch 
of  salt.  Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often.  While  hot,  mix  some  soft 
with  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  feed  to  the  baby  with  a  spoon. 
This  is  also  relaxing  to  the  bowels,  and  should  not  be  given  if  the 
child  is  disposed  to  sunrmer  complaint. 


458  CARE  AND  GVLTVRR  OF  CHILDREN. 

Gbaham  Hasty  Puddino. 

One  onp  Graham  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water;  one  large  cap* 
boiling  water  and  same  quantity  of  milk;  one  saltspoonful  salt. 
Stir  the  wet  flour  into  the  boiling  water,  slightly  salted.  Boil  ten 
minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly;  add  the  milk,  and  cook,  after 
it  has  come  again  to*a  boil,  ten  minutes  longer.  Give  with  sugar 
and  milk  for  breakfast. 

Eaten  with  cream,  nutmeg,  and  powdered  sugar,  this  b  a  good 
plain  dessert  for  grown  people  as  well  as  children. 

Rick  Floub  Hastt  Puddino 

Is  made  as  above,  substituting  two   heaping   tablespoonfuls  rice- 
flour  for  the  Graham. 

Mqjl  Pobbidob. 

'One  tablespoonful  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  wet  to  a 
paste  with  cold  water;  two  cups  boiling  water,  two  cups  milk,  a 
good  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  the  paste  in  hot  water  twenty  minutes;, 
add  the  milk,  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often.  Eat  with 
sugar  and  milk,  stirred  in  while  hot. 

Mush  jlNd  Milk. 

One  cup  Indian  meal,  wet  up  with  cold  water;  two  quarts  cold 
water;  salt  to  taste.  Boil  two  hours;  stirring  often  with  a  wooden 
spoon  or  a  stick.     To  be  eaten  hot  with  milk  and  sugar. 

CoNDBKSSD  Milk. 

This  is  perhaps  the  safest  substitute  for  the  "  good  milk  from  one 
cow,**  which  few  mothers  in  town  can  procure.  Keep  the  can  in  a 
cool  place  and  mix  according  to  directions. 

Moral  Influencb — Obbdibkck. 

In  the  preceding  pages  we  have  described  the  mode  of  manage- 
ment best  adapted  to  the  bodily  wants  of  young  children,  but  it  is 
also  necessary  to  suggest  means  for  the  healthy  culture  for  the 
mental  and  moral  faculties  of  childhood.     For,  though  the  growth 


.'  », 


CAKE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN.  469 

of  the  mind  may  not  make  visible  progress  in.  the  same  ^proportion 
as  is  seen  in  the  tiny  frame,  the  same  steady  development  toward 
maturity  is,  nevertheless,  taking  place  continually,  resulting  in  a 
healthy  or  unsound  condition  of  mind,  according  to  the  amount  of 
culture  bestowed.  For  this  culture,  the  long  period  of  helplessness 
which  characterizes  babyhood  is  especially  favorable.  A  mother, 
as  the  being  nearest  and  dearest  to  the  almost  unconscious  infant, 
should  act  not  only  as  the  appointed  guardian  of  its  bodily  welfare, 
but  should  also  extend  her  care  and  effort  to  the  development  and 
culture  of  its  mind.  By  its  parent's  smile  or  frown  an  infant  reads, 
as  from  a  book,  signs  of  approval  or  rebuke  of  every  act  com- 
mitted. Instinctively,  little  children  turn  toward  their  mothers  on 
all  occasions  of  doubt,  and,  unhesitatingly,  they  guide  their  course 
by  the  mute  expression  they  observe  on  her  face. 

This  golden  opportunity  of  maintaining  a  natural  influence  is  too 
valuable  to  be  lightly  regarded,  or  carelessly  risked.  From  the 
commencement,  therefore,  it  is  desirable  that  a  mother  should  seize 
every  occasion  of  turning  it  to  good  account.  In  all  her  actions 
toward  her  babe,  she  should  ever  bear  in  mind  that  example  is  the 
most  impressive  mode  of  teaching,  and  that  if  she  constantly  does 
what  is  right  in  the  presence  of  her  child,  a  true  principle  of  con- 
duct is  imparted  without  any  need  of  verbal  explanation. 

It  is  commonly  believed  that  no  harm  can  come  of  letting  a  child 
have  its  own  way,  so  long  as  it  is  a  mere  babe.  But  this  is  a  serious 
delusion.  As  soon  as  a  child  is  of  an  age  to  express  its  wants, 
whether  by  one  means  or  another,  it  is  old  enought  to  be  brought 
into  habits  of  obedience.  Obedience  is  the  first  lesson  to  be  taught, 
and  very  sensible  are  all  well-managed  babes  of  its  meaning.  No 
harsh  words,  no  impatient  gestures,  need  be  added  to  enforce  the 
rule,  which  consists  simply  in  not  doing  what  the  babe  demands,  if 
it  is  not  the  right  time  and  the  proper  place  for  the  desired  gratifi- 
cation. 

Take  food  as  an  v  example.  If  children  were  left  to  themselves 
they  would  be  eating  and  drinking  perpetually  of  whatever  came  in 


460         CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN. 

* 

their  way,  till  the  stomach  could  no  longer  retain  the  improper 
substances.  Wholesome  food  would  be  rejected  for  more  palatable 
sweets  and  dainties.  Before  long,  depraved  tastes  would  be  con- 
firmed. Much  the  same  misfortune  sometimes  befalls  over-fed 
children  of  the  wealthy,  notwithstanding  the  care  bestowed  in  other 
respects  on  their  nurture;  and  an  impaired  constitution  is  tha 
result.  Food,  then,  becomes  alike  a  means  of  bodily  nourishment 
and  of  discipline  of  the  mind.  The  quality  of  the  food,  and  the 
hour  at  which  it  is  taken,  are  matters  for  the  parent  to  decide  to 
the  best  of  her  judgment.  Having  done  so,  any  fretful  impatience 
on  the  part  of  the  child  should  be  unheeded.  If,  in  a  fit  of  passion, 
the  usual  meal  should  b:^  refused,  no  attempt  at  persuasion  should 
be  wasted,  but,  after  a  reasonable  time  for  recovery  from  any  dis- 
appomtment  experienced,  the  objectionabid  repast  should  be  put 
aside,  and  the  child's  attention  turned  to  something  else.  Hunger 
is  an  eloquent  pleader,  and  if  the  refusal  has  merely  sprung  from 
•disappointment  at  not  having  somethuig  else,  signs  of  a  craving 
appetite  will  soon  appear.  Then  it  will  be  time  to  re-offer  the 
original  nourishment,  which,  in  all  probability,  will  be  greedily 
•consumed.  If,  upon  observation,  it  ii  found  that  the  repetition  of 
the  same  kind  of  food  is  repulsive,  iiio  reason  should  be  sought  in 
the  health  of  the  child,  or  in  the  mode  of  preparing  the  meaL 
With  respect  to  the  time  of  f  eediug^  irregularity  should  be  guarded 
against  by  not  giving  children  soraf«s  to  eat  between  meals;  neither 
should  they  be  exposed  to  the  sight  of  tempting  food  at  unsuitable 
times. 

Another  early  opportunity  of  implanting  a  spirit  of  obedience 
will  be  found  in  the  impulsive  habit  which  little  children  have  of 
seizing  whatever  they  desire  to  possess.  This  habit  requires  great 
firmness  in  checking,  and  a  determination  on  the  parent's  part  to  risk 
a  flood  of  tears  rather  than  to  let  the  coveted  article  remain  in  the 
child's  possession.  Added  to  the  danger  which  results  to  little 
children  from  letting  the  habit  of  snatching  have  sway,  the  destruc- 
tion of  property  is  liable  to  be  very  great.     Consequently,  a  mother 


CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDRBN.  461 

'  sboald  be  on  the  watoh  to  convey  a  notion  that  certain  prohibited 
articles  are  hurtful.  By  shaking  her  head,  looking  gravely,  and 
saying  slowly,  ^'  No,  no,"  at  such  times,  a  child  will  soon  learn  that 
something  is  wrong.  If  the  child  ceases  in  its  attempts  it  will  have 
understood  the  meaning  of  a  very  important  word.  If,  however^ 
the  intelligence  is  not  sufficiently  strong,  the  object  should  be 
removed  out  of  sight,  the  mother  firmly  reiterating  the  refusal,  and 
looking  the  child  in  the  face  while  she  does  so.  By  repeating  this 
process  a  very  few  times,  the  meaning  will  become  plain,  and  you 
wHl  see  that  the  child  understands  it.  Should  the  child,  however, 
repeat  the  attempt,  the  prohibition  should  be  repeated,  and  the 
consequences  of  the  child's  taking  the  responsibility  should  be  suf- 
fered to  appear.  Touching  fire,  candles,  heated  irons,  kettles  of 
hot  water,  and  innumerable  articles  of  a  similar  nature,  can  hardly 
be  prevented  in  a  nursery;  therefore,  if,  after  a  fair  understanding 
of  the  prohibition,  a  child  persists  in  the  attempt,  a  slight  bum,  or 
bruise,  or  scald,  may  prove;  a  merciful  suffering.  On  such  occasions 
sympathy  at  the  infant's  pain  should  be  tempered  with  reproof, 
making  him  understand  that  when  he  was  told  not  to  do  the  deed, 
you  knew  it  would  hurt^him.  By  the  above  and  various  other 
simple  means,  obedience  receives  practical  and  easy  illustration, 
even  in  infancy. 

With  children  of  more  advanced  age,  the  force  of  reasoning 
should  be  employed  to  render  acts  of  obedience  less  painful  to 
perform.  Those  who  have  charge  of  the  young  should  bear  in 
mind  that  they  are  dealing  with  beings  liable  to  be  impelled  by 
impetuous  passions  into  acts  of  danger,  of  which,  from  want  of 
experience,  they  do  not  realize  the  extent.  Adults,  having  passed 
through  the  ordeal  of  youth,  know  the  punishment  which  an 
uncurbed  spirit  is  apt  to  bring  on  its  possessor.  They  have  bought 
their  experience  dearly,  perchaace,  from  having  no  guiding  hand 
to  direct  their  course.  The  result  of  this  experience  should  be  to 
caution  young  people  against  preventable  danger.  In  all  warnings 
—especially  where  schoolboys  ai-e  concerned — the  truth  should  be 


462        CARE  AND  CULTURE  OP  CHILDREN. 

plainly  spokon,  right  and  wrong  made  unmistakably  clear,  and  for- 
giveness freely  given,  whenever,  from  waywardness  or  indiscretion, 
the  youthful  wanderer  has  diverged  from  the  right.  Children 
that  from  their  cradles  have  been  accustomed  to  look  upon  their 
parents  as  their  truest  and  most  indulgent  guides,  are  seldom  want- 
ing in  confidence  toward  them,  when,  through  disobedience,  they 
have  unhappily  become  entrammelled  in  difficulties. 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 


THE  DINING  ROOM. 


HE  family  dining-room  should  receive  especial  attention  in 

regard  to  location.      It  should  be  so  situated  that  it  may 

have  the  full  benefit  of  the  morning  sunlight.     Its  furnishing 

must  not  be  fussy  or  light;  everything  must  be  dark,  solid,  and 

massive.     The  colors  must  be  those  deep,  marked  tones — ^the  rich 

crimsons,  dark  blues,  soft  olives,  and  such  permanent  tints,  that 

always  keep  their  original  shades  despite  time  and  wear. 

For  the  dining-room,  situated  on  the  sunny  side  of  the  house, 
the  walls  ought  to  be  in  wainscot  of  different  colored  woods,  oak, 
walnut,  cherry,  maple,  etc.,  and  fashioned  in  the  Old  English  rustic 
designs,  with  the  panels  carved  in  emblems  of  the  chase.  The 
^ceiling  should  be  designed  in  rustic  squares,  or  medallions;  either 
^corresponding  to,  or  contrasting  with  the  wainscoting,  in  wood 
•colors. 

In  the  modem  dining-room,  the  doors  leading  to  the  china  closet, 
dumb  waiter,  and  butler's  pantry,  are  half  French  mirrors,  which 
has  the  effect  of  taking  away  the  appearance  of  a  door,  and  adding 
^greatly  to  the  beauty  of  the  walls. 

The  floor  must  be  laid  in  choice  designs  of  bright-colored  woods, 
or  tile.  The  centre  of  the  floor  may  be  covered  with  a  rug  in  cor- 
responding colors  to  the  window  drapery,  with  a  border  of  vagrant 
sprays  of  heliotrope,  or  vinca  (periwinkle),  which  harmonizes  with 
the  majority  of  shades  as  a  bordering. 

The  extension-table  should  be  low,  square-cornered,  and  heavily 
tcarved;  and,  when  not  in  use,  should  be  covered  with  a  cloth  cor- 

463 


464  THE  DIKINO  ROOM. 

responding  in]  shade  to  the  rug  and  window  drapery,  and  may  be 
embroidered  in  contrasting  colors  with  the  bordering  of  the  rug» 
The  shelves  of  the  side-table  must  be  covered  in  the  same  style. 

The  dining-room  chairs  must  be  in  the  square,  solid  style^ 
upholstered  in  either  plain  or  embossed  leather,  with  brass  or 
silver  nails;  but  the  plain  leather  is  more  preferred  by  people 
of  good  taste,  for  the  object  in  selecting  the  dining-room  chair 
should  be  comfort,  not  display. 

The  sideboard  of  the  modem  dining-room  is  built  in  the  wall, 
and  of  the  same  kinds  of  wood  as  the  wainscoting,  the  doors  and 
drawers  being  carved  after  the  same  patterns. 

The  upper  part  contains  a  centre  mirror  and  sconce,  with  narrow 
racks  and  shelves  on  either  side  extending  to  the  cornice.  These 
are  only  used  for  china  ornaments,  placques,  etc.  Very  little  silver 
and  glassware  are  kept  on  the  sideboard  in  these  sBsthetic  days.  It 
has  given  place  to  living  flowers,  in  majolica  vessels  of  every  con- 
ceivable shape  and  design. 

The  next  object  of  importance  is  the  flre-place,  with  its  clear 
polished  grate  and  shining  brasses.  The  square  massive  fender  is 
again  in  vogue.  The  broad  and  curved  mantle  shelf  has  given 
place  to  the  high  and  narrow  one,  with  its  complement  of  airy  brass 
or  silver  racks,  and  tiny  mirrors.  The  large  mantle  mirror  has  been 
superseded  by  the  mantle  sconce,  with  its  heavy  bevelled  edges.  It 
is  placed  in  the  center  above  the  shelf,  and  on  each  side  of  it,  are 
the  highly-polished  brass  or  silver  racks,  each  lined  with  a  tiny 
mirror,  reflecting  the  heterogeneous  oddities  that  would  be  sadly 
out  of  place  in  almost  any  other  room*  yet,  on  the  dining-room 
mantle  shelf,  are  quite  en  regie. 

It  has  been  the  custom  to  deck  the  dining-room  walls  with 
pictures  of  the  chase,  fish,  fruit;  and  these  were  not  stinted  either 
in  size  or  number;  but  in  these  later  days,  SBsthetic  taste  confines 
the  walls  to  only  two  or  three  very  small  fruit  pieces,  and  one  or 
two  small  placques  of  fish  or  game. 

A  fire  screen  is  not  always  an  acquisition  to  a  dining-room;  but 


THE  DINING  ROOM.  465 

often  it  is  quite  necessary,  for  the  table  is  generally  placed  so  that 
some  one  must  be  seated  near  the  fire;  but  if  the  room  is  otherwise 
heated  the  fire  screen  is  out  of  place.  The  three-leaf  folding 
Japanese  screen  is  the  kind  most  used  for  this  purpose. 

The  lamp  shade  should  be  of  some  soft  lace,  lined  with  crimson 
silk,  and  finished  with  a  heavy  deep  crimson  fringe. 

The  curtains,  whether  of  light  or  heavy  fabric,  are  more  conven- 
ient hung  on  rods;  for  then  they  may  be  easily  pushed  back  to 
admit  the  light  or  drawn  to  exclude  it. 

Sliding  screens,  rich  in  stained  glass,  should  be  attached  to  the 
dining-room  windows,  they  may  be  placed  in  any  position,  high  or 
low  in  the  casement,  and  the  light  penetrating  through  them,  tints 
the  room  in  many  mellow  hues,  giving  it  a  look  of  elegance  and 
solid  comfort. 

Decoration  of  thb  Dinnbb  Table. 

It  is  quite  impossible  for  the  average  female  mind  to  confront 
unmoved  the  delightful  possibilities  to-day  afforded  by  the  service 
of  a  dinner  table.  Times  have  changed  since  the  mistress  of  a 
household  thought  it  necessary  to  set  before  her  guest  a  feast  like 
the  day-dream  of  Ichabod  Crane,  where  "  the  pigeons  were  snugly 
put  to  bed  in  a  comfortable  pie,  and  tucked  in  with  a  coverlet  of 
•crust;  the  geese  swimming  in  their  own  gravy,  and  the  ducks 
pairing  cozily  in  dishes,  like  snug  married  couples,  with  a  decent 
competency  of  onion  sauce."  The  now  universal  dinner  a  la  Riisse^ 
with  its  airy  hints,  suggestions,  innuendoes  of  ministry  to  the  coarser 
needs  of  human  nature,  has  limited  each  course  to  the  one  dish 
offered  at  a  time,  with  its  companion  sauce  or  vegetable. 

Dinner  giving  is  an  art  which  only  an  individual  of  fine  culture 
and  SBSthetic  tastes  can  be  successful  in,  and  dining  is  an  accomplish- 
ment in  which  only  an  epicure  can  excel. 

"  Giving  a  dinner-party  "  in  days  gone  by  meant  a  good  deal  of 
hard  work  for  the  housewife  and  her  coadjutors,  generally  the 
daughters  or  sisters  of  the  family,  it  meant  hours  of  seclusion  in  a 

80 


-1 


466 


THE  DINING  ROOM. 


pantrj  with  curls  tncked  up  under  a  pastry  cap,  and  dress  obscured 
by  a  gingham  apron,  weighing,  measuring,  egg-beating,  almond 
blanching,  icing,  garnishing,  seasoning,  tasting,  an^  invariably 
gossiping! — all  .this  and  much  more,  till  the  lavish  banquet  was 
ready  and  waiting  the  guests. 

The  march  of  civilization  and  modem  degeneracy  have  materially 
lessened  the  labors  of  dinner-giving  in  the  present.  As  a  mere 
matter  of  contrast  it  might  be  well  to  picture  the  hostess  of  latter 
days,  who,  having  bidden  her  guests,  and  consiHted  with  her  cook 
or  caterer,  abandons  all  concern  until  an  hour  before  the  coming  of 
the  guests.  The  absolute  work  of  arranging  cloth,  silver,  crystal, 
and  steel  devolves  upon  the  well-trained  servant;  but  there  are 
graceful  finishing  touches  which  no  hand  but  the  mistress'  may 
give.  There  are  sprays  of  smilaz  to  be  trailed  over  piles  of  rosy 
fruit,  and  flowers  to  be  grouped  in  studied  carelessness  beside  each 
plate.  Dinner  cards,  and  the  mighty  question  of  places,  must  be 
settled;  bon-bons,  little  cakes,  and  crystallized  fruits  must  be 
arranged.  Lamps  and  candles  must  be  reviewed,  the  temperature 
of  the  room  regulated,  screens  set,"and  portieres  drawn  for  the  com- 
fort of  the  company.  A  word  of  admonition  to  be  given  to  the 
servant  about  the  warmth  of  the  soup,  the  chill  of  the  oysters,  etc., 
before  the  mistress  vanishes  into  her  dressing-room,  soon  to  re-ap- 
pear and  take  her  place,  watchful,  gracious,  yet  unconscious,  as 
hostess  of  the  feast! 

Until  recently,  table-cloths  have  been  restricted  to  an  ornament 
arising  merely  from  the  gloss  obtained  by  various  distributions  of 
the  warp  and  woof  in  weaving.  The  specimens  of  British  and 
Saxony  table-damask  are  almost  satin-like  in  texture.  From 
Dresden  has  lately  come  a  table-cloth  quite  new  in  conception, 
representing  a  dance  of  cupids  amid  garlands  of  flowers,  encircling 
the  centre-piece;  but  the  profluent  tide  of  color  and  aesthetic  taste^ 
have  invaded  even  this  stainless  snow,  although  in  reality  it  is  only 
the  old  arts  reviving. 


THE  DINING  ROOM. 


467 


The  Germans  are  credited  with  being  the  first  in  imitating  table- 
cloths after  the  old  Renaissance  linen,  bearing  the  design  of  the 
Royal  Meissen  China — ^the  "  Z wiebelmuster  "  or  "  onion  pattern  "  in 
colored  borders.  Since  then,  scarlet  and  blue  re-appear  in  mono- 
gram and  crest,  and  in  other  traceries  wrought  hj  hand  upon  tLe 
damask. 

The  fancy  for  color  is  shown  in  the  decorated  table-linen  now 
often  used  for  large  dinner  tables,  as  well  as  the  smaller  tables 
for  teas  and  luncheons.  Large  cloths  are  made  of  white  momie- 
cloth,  with  borders  of  drawn-work  in  open  lace-like  patterns  that 
show  a  rich  color — most  often  cardinal  red,  or  crimson — ^beneath  it, 
and  there  are  gay  decorative  clusters  of  inner  borders  wrought  in 
South  Kensington  embroidery.  Sometimes  these  devices  represent 
fruit  and  flowers,  while  others  are  quaint  little  bits  of  landscape 
done  in  etching.  The  edges  of  the  cloth  are  heavily  fringed.  The 
napkins  and  doyleys  are  etched  in  the  same  colors  as  the  cloth,  and 
in  very  small  patterns.  A  wide  stripe  of  crimson  plush  may  be 
laid  down  the  middle  of  dining-cloths,  and  borders  of  plush  are  set 
beneath  the  open  figures  of  the  drawn-work.  Small  cloths  for  five 
o'clock  teas,  and  luncheon  cloths,  have  the  etching  done  in  a  single 
color,  and  each  small  table  should  have  a  different  etching,  which 
g^ves  the  whole  a  pleasing  effect. 

The  handsomest  damask  linen  cloths  for  party  dinners,  or  com- 
pany dinners,  despite  innovation,  retain  their  pure  whiteness,  while 
colors  are  introduced  in  the  smaller  cloths  for  breakfast,  supper 
and  lunch  tables. 

'  We  use  Macram6  lace  and  other  table-linen  decoration,  tmder  the 
fond  impression  that  it  is  "  something  new,*'  but  the  drapery  of  the 
table,  in  Paul  Veronese's  picture  of  "Jesus  in  Simon's  House,"  has 
this  identical  Macram£  trimming,  and  in  one  or  two  other  old 
paintings,  the  table-cloth  is  bordered  with  cut-work  that  all  are 
learning  to  make  to-day. 

Some  carry  the  art  to  such  an  extent  that  the  sideboard  (;over, 
gido*table  cover,  table-cloth,  and  napkins,  are  decorated  to  match. 


468  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

with  a  handful  of  scarlet  poppies  dropped  almost  anywhere,  while 
here  and  there  may  be  seen  a  vagrant  yellow  sunflower,  with  inter- 
woven texts  wrought  in  either  German  or  Old  English  characters. 

Variety  thus  laid  upon  the  foundation  stones  of  the  dinner-table, 
appears  throughout.  The  changes  of  plates  are  kaleidoscopic. 
You  take  your  soup  in  Sevres,  your  entr6e8  in  England,  or  Dresden^ 
and  so  on,  till  you  come  to  fruit  in  China  or  Japan.  It  is  quite 
in  T^U^  in  these  SBSthetic  times,  to  turn  your  plate  over,  with  the 
sapient  air  of  a  connoisseur,  and  study  the  marks  thereon  inscribed. 
But  it  is  well  to  avoid  the  catastrophe  which  befel  an  absent- 
minded  man,  who,  forgetful  that  he  had  been  helped,  reversed  his 
plate,  and  bestowed  one  of  Delmonico's  botichies  d  la  reine  npon 
his  neighbor's  satin  petticoat. 

The  use  of  heavy  silver  pieces  has  been  very  generally  super- 
seded by  exquisite  little  bits  of  porcelain  or  glass,  bearing  tribute 
of  fruit  and  flowers.  This  is  in  reality  an  economy,  as  well  as  a 
pretty  fashion,  for  a  lady  may  select  from  her  cabinet  or  shelf  a 
Venice  glass,  an  iridescent  vase  or  two,  and  group  her  own  flowers, 
without  resorting  to  the  costly  structures  sent  in  by  her  florist. 

A  new  fancy  is  to  use  but  one  kind  of  flowers  upon  the  table,  a8> 
for  instance,  Jacqueminot,  Marshal  Neil  or  Gloire  de  Paris  roses, 
these  being  among  the  most  expensive;  but  this  fancy,  happily  is 
only  confined  to  a  few  wealthy  sesthetes.  For  bouquets  offered  at 
each  plate,  there  are  charming  horn-shaped  holders  in  Italian  straw, 
flat  basket  to  hang  with  ribbons  to  the  waist,  and  horseshoes  made 
of  German  violets,  and  used  in  similar  fashion. 

One  phase  of  the  dessert  at  a  recent  dinner  may  prove  sug. 
gestive;  especially  as  the  general  effect  resulted  more  from  an 
harmonious  assembling  of  colors  than  from  a  lavish  display  of 
wealth.  The  centre-piece  was  a  glowing  pyramid  of  scarlet  poin- 
settia  leaves,  and  white  camellias,  cut  with  long  stems  and  their 
glossy,  dark-green  foliage.  The  shell-shaped  dessert  dishes,  finger- 
bowl^,  and  ice-cream  plates  were  all  of  ruby  Bohemian  glass.  The 
doyleys  were  etched  in  red  silk  in  tiny  Japanese  designs.     The 


THE  DINING'  ROOM.  469 

candelabra  used  were  of  clear  crystal,  the  bobeches  of  niby  glass^  and 
the  red  wax  candles  had  each  one  a  little  jaunty  cap,  or  shade,  of 
scarlet  silk. 

It  ought  to  be  quite  a  consideration  to  our  country  (cousins) 
friends  who  have  been  so  long  sighing  for  the  luxury  of  gas,  that 
candles  again  play  a  prominent  part  in  decoration.  Sideboard, 
mantle-shelf  and  wall  sconces  glow,  with  a  subdued  luster. 

Then  the  French  moderator  or  the  student's  lamp,  burning  soft 
under  a  shade  of  antique  lace,  lined  with  crimson  silk,  makes  so 
becoming  a  chiaro-oscuro,  that  if  is  doubtful  whether  they  will  be 
allowed  to  go  out  of  vogue  again. 

Among  dinner-table  adornments,  there  can  be  nothing  more 
beautiful  and  seductive  to  the  housekeeper,  thait  the  modem  glass, 
BOW  imported  in  quantities,  and  at  prices  within  the  reach  of  mod- 
erate purses.  What  variety  of  form  and  tint  in  the  modem  Venice 
glass.  Amber,  topaz,  opal,  sea  blue,  ruby,  aad  bottle-green,  make 
a  beautiful  radiance  on  a  snowy  cloth. 

In  the  Bombay  striped  glass,  introduced  into  England  by  the 
Prince  of  Wales,  after  his  visit  to  India^  and  since  largely  repro- 
duced, there  are  beautiful  specimens  of  fruit  dishes,  flower  vases, 
and  ice-cream  plates. 

Bohemian  and  English  enamelled  glsn^n  appear  in  such  beautiful 
guise,  that  it  seems  impossible  for  6hem  io  be  excelled.  From  all 
these,  and  much  more,  to  select  from,  the  dame  chatelaine  need  not 
be  at  a  loss  to  adorn  her  dinner  table. 

Company  Dink:«r. 
The  table  should  be  covered  with  a  fine  damask  table-cloth 
laid  with  the  inside  fold  down  the  center  of  the  table,  whether 
the  damask  has  been  ironed  or  not,  on  the  right  side;  it  is 
indispensable  to  observe  that  the  creases  are  on  the  top.  Some 
prominent  design  in  the  damask  generally  indicates  the  center  of 
the  cloth,  which  must  be  laid  in  the  center  of  the  table,  over  which 
the  epergne  or  center-piece  is  placed,  and  from  which  all  the  other 
dishes  are  regulated  in  regard   cO  their  respective  positions.     The 


470  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

plates  should  be  well  dusted  before  they  are  laid,  the  silver  polished 
to  the  utmost  brightness,  and  the  salt-cellars  filled  with  clean  sifted 
salt.  Two  forks  should  be  placed  on  the  left  hand,  and  a  knife 
and  spoon  on  the  right.  Large  spoons  should  be  crossed  at  each 
comer  of  the  table,  and  in  the  center  of  each  side;  tumblera  and 
wine-glasses  on  the  right  hand,  from  three  to'  five  in  number^ 
according  to  the  different  wines  used;  the  napkin  folded  square, 
with  one-half  turned  back,  and  laid  on  the  right  hand  or  directly  in 
front  of  the  plate.  The  soup-ladle,  gravy-spoon,  and  carving-knife 
and  fork  go  before  the  hostess;  the  fish-trowel,  gravy-spoon,  carv- 
ing-knife and  fork  also  before  the  host — and  each  should  be  an 
expert  in  the  art  of  carving  and  helping  gracefully  and  easily. 

The  side-table  should  be  laid  with  white  cloth;  the  silver,  plates, 
finger^owls,  glasses,  needed  during  dinner,  should  be  arranged 
neatly  and  tastefully  on  it.  The  wine-coolers  can  be  placed  beneath 
this  table  or  at  its  side.  A  stack  of  fresh  napkins,  ice  broken  and 
ready  to  serve,  and- bottles  of  sauce  ready  to  serve,  should  all  be 
there  in  readiness  for  immediate  use. 

When  the  soup  is  on  the  table,  the  butler  or  waiter  will  announce 
that  "  dinner  is  served  "  and  the  host^  will  then  lead  the  way  to 
the  dining-room  with  the  most  distinguished  male  guest,  while  the 
host  takes  the  lady  of  the  greatest  social  position,  and  the  other 
guests  pair  off  according  to  preference,  or  a  hint  from  the  hostess* 

When  the  soup-course  is  over,  the  waiters  remove  the  plates 
quietly,  and  the  fish  is  instantly  served  upon  a  hot  plate,  which  \» 
placed  before  each  guest.  There  are  no  vegetables  served  with 
fish,  but  a  salad  is  allowable.  If  the  fish  be  boiled,  a  plate  of 
sliced  lemon  should  be  handed  about  to  be  squeezed  upon  the  fish 
unless  fish-sauce,  soy,  or  other  condiment  is  preferred.  With 
salmon,  thinly  cut  slices  of  cucumber,  dressed  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  vinegar,  should  be  served.  If  the  fish  is  served  from  the 
dining-table,  before  it  is  removed,  the  fish-trowel  and  spoon  should 
be  taken  away  on  a  small  tray.  When  a  guest  wishes  to  have  his 
plate  removed,  he  is  supposed  to  rest  his  fork  on  the  plate.     A  woll- 


THE  DINING  ROOM,  47i 

trained  servant  observes  no  other  rule  in  making  the  change;  sadly 
to  the  chagrin  of  the  inexperienced  diner  who  unwittingly  drops 
his  fork. 

In  breaking  l^read  it  is  not  considered  well-mannered  to  break 
bread  with  both  hands,  as  there  is  no  occasion  to  relinquish  the 
fork  until  a  change  of  plate  is  desired;  but  between  the  courses  the 
bread  may  be  divided  with  the  hands  without  breach  of  etiquette. 

Sherry  is  the  wine  usually  drunk  with  soup  and  fish.  There  is 
little  ceremony  in  drinking  wine  at  the  table  now;  it  is  not  even 
necessary  to  bow  to  your  neighbor,  on  raising  the  glass  to  your 
lips;  still,  it  is  a  graceful  deference  to  an  old  custom. 

Gentlemen  do  not  drink  their  wine  until  the  lady  accompanying 
them  is  helped.  A  slight  inclination  to  your  escort,  or  your  host  or 
hostess,  is  always  in  good  taste. 

After  the  fish,  game  may  be  served,  to  be  followed  by  meats, 
after  which  the  plates  and  silver  are  removed,  and  crumbs  deftly 
brushed  into  a  crumb  tray,  and  the  dessert  is  placed  on  the  table — 
a  large  ipergne  of  mixed  fruit  and  flowers  in  the  center,  with  fruit- 
knives,  finger-bowls,  colored  doyleys  and  fruit  plates.  If  coffee  is 
required,  it  may  be  handed  from  the  sideboard;  but  the  more 
gracious  and  hospitable  way  is  for  the  hostess  to  send  it  from  a 
tray  placed  before  her,  while  a  waiter  hands  the  cream  and  sugar 
to  each  guest. 

The  polished  mahogany  of  olden  times  has  been  superseded  by 
the  more  comfortable  dessert  spread,  or  by  retaining  the  white 
dinner  cloth  to  the  end  of  the  feast.  A  tiny  knot  of  flowers  at 
each  plate  or  in  the  finger-bowl  is  always  observed  at  company 
dinners. 

A  dinner  roll  may  be  folded  in  each  napkin,  with  either  a  Jacque 
or  Bon  Silene  rose  placed  in  the  upper  fold,  or  the  bread  may  be 
handed  to  the  guests  on  Wedgewood  bread-plates. 

The  following  bill  of  fare  may  prove  suggestive,  and  may  be 
varied  according  to  individual  preference.  It  is  a  simple  dinner, 
yet  contains  enough  viands  to  satisfy  the  most  fastidious  appetite. 


472  THE  DINING  ROOM. 


Menu  fob  Compaky  Dinnbb. 


Oysters  on  the  half  shell. 
Soup  ft  la  Reine. 
^Sheny.  Salmon  with  green  pease  or  cucumbers,  sliced. 

Filet  de  Bceuf  and  Mushrooms. 
White  wine.  Fried  Potatoes. 

Champagne.  Salad  of  Lettuce  or  Tomatoes. 

Cold  Chicken. 
Madeira.  Olives. 

Ices  and  Jellies,  Cheese. 
Sherry.  Fruits. 

Coffee. 
Cordials. 

Pabtt  Dinnbs. 

The  table  should  be  laid  with  a  fine  white  damask  cloth,  with 
napkin  of  the  same  design  and  texture. 

The  ipergne  should  be  placed  in  the  center  of  the  table,  filled 
with  choice  fruits  and  flowers  with  drooping  ferns  and  trailing 
smilax.     The  mirror-pond  placed  under  the  ipergne,  is  very  effectiye. 

The  mirror-pond  may  be  bordered  with  a  wreath  of  smilaz  or 
vinca. 

Small  glass  or  moss-ware  flower-stands,  filled  with  fine  cut 
flowers  and  trailing  vines,  should  be  interspersed  throughout  the 
table,  and  these  should  always  be  set  on  small  mirror-ponds. 

Cut-glass  dishes  of  different  shapes  and  tints,  filled  with  bon-bons, 
little  cakes,  crystallized  fruits,  or  anything  that  taste  may  suggest 
and  custom  sanction;  must  be  set  at  effective  distances  from  the 
flower  glasses.  Colors  to  contrast  should  be  studied;  but  to  pro- 
duce a  graceful  effect,  the  dishes  should  blend  in  color,  and  consist 
of  various  sizes  and  shapes. 

The  plates  laid  for  the  guests  should  not  be  too  crowded.  A 
fork  is  laid  at  the  left  of  the  plate,  the  right  side  uppermost.  The 
knife  is  laid  at  the  top  of  the  plate,  with  the  handle  to  the  right 
and  edge  towards  the  plate.     The  spoon  is  laid  at  the  right.     A 


THE  DINING  ROOM.  473 

flmall  cut-glass  water-bottle  with  its  tumbler  is  set  at  the  right 
hand  side  of  the  plate,  also  five  or  more  wine-glasses  according  to 
the  number  of  wines  used.  The  finger-bowl  with  a  rosebud  or 
some  single  flower  placed  in  it  should  be  set  on  the  right,  only  a 
little  further  back  on  the  table.  The  dinner  napkin  is  folded  in  a 
smooth  square,  with  two  edges  turned  back;  this  forms  two  com- 
partments, one  is  for  the  square  of  bread,  the  other  is  for  the  small 
bouquet  of  flowers. 

It  is  customary  now  to  place  the  napkin  on  the  table  along  with 
the  dinner  card. 

If  candles  are  used  for  the  table,  the  candle*sticks,  or  candelabra 
may  be  ornamented  with  smilaz  or  ground  ivy. 

When  a  dinner  is  served  d  la  Buase  the  table  is  laid  as  described. 
No  eatables  are  placed  upon  the  table  save  bon-bons,  which  are 
used  with  fruit  and  flowers  to  decorate  the  dinner-table.  All  else 
is  handed  round,  having  been  previously  carved  at  the  sideboard  or 
in  the  butler's  pantry. 

The  dinner  d  la  Rusaey  Russian  style  of  dinner-giving,  is  a  most 
enjoyable  meal  when  well  served,  for  the  reason  that  the  host  and 
hostess  are  left  at  full  liberty  to  entertain  their  guests  by  joining 
freely  in  the  conversation;  but  no  method  of  serving  a  dinner  is 
more  dependent  on  the  efficiency  of  servants — ordinary  domestics 
:are  not  equal  to  the  task. 

The  order  of  guests  going  in  to  dinner  is  the  same  in  general 
society — ^viz.,  the  lady  of  the  house  or  her  representative  takes  the 
head  of  the  table,  and  the  master  of  the  house  the  same.  The 
most  distinguished  lady  of  the  company  is  conducted  to  the  table 
by  the  master,  and  is  placed  at  his  right  hand,  having  on  his  left 
the  lady  next  in  distinction.  The  same  rule  is  observ'ed  with  regard 
to  the  lady  of  the  house,  the  two  gentlemen  it  is  designed  to  honor 
most,  are  placed  on  her  left  and  right  hand. 

During  the  interval  that  elapses  between  the  assembling  of  the 
•company  and  going  to  table,  the  hostess  quietly  designates  to  the 
gentlemen   guests  the  ladies  whom  she  wishes   them  to   conduct 


474  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

to  the  dining-room.  If  it  should  .happen  that  the  guests  are 
strangers  to  each  other,  an  introduction  from  the  hostess  is  neces* 
sary.  When  dinner  is  announced,  the  host  should  rise  and  offer 
his  arm  to  the  lady  he  is  to  lead  to  the  dining-room,  and  the  rest  of 
the  company  follow  his  example.  The  last  to  leave  the  drawing- 
room  are  the  hostess  and  the  gentleman  who  escorts  her.  The 
reason  is  obvious:  It  is  the  duty  of  the  lady  of  the  house  to  see  all 
her  guests  on  their  way  to  the  dining-room  before  she  leaves  the 
drawing-room  herself.  It  greatly  facilitates  the  ease  of  seating 
company,  when  the  names  of  guests  are  placed  in  their  plates,  as  it 
is  by  no  means  an  easy  task,  for  a  hostess  to  remember  the  exact 
place  assigned  to  each  guest  without  some  aid  of  this  kind« 

The  butler  calls  the  names  and  seats  the  guests.  Serving  a  din- 
ner occupies  two  hours  or  more.  Strong  black  coffee,  without 
sugar  or  milk,  is  served  after  dessert,  and  lialf  an  hour  later,  tea  is 
served  in  the  drawing-room. 

A  dinner  consists  of  courses,  removes,  entries,  and  dessert;  bat 
removes  now  are  separate  courses.  We  append  a  bill  of  fare  of 
the  different  courses  in  the  order  in  which  they  should  be  served. 
It  may  prove  suggestive,  and  can  be  varied  according  to  preference* 
and  the  season  of  the  year. 

Courses. 

Oysters  on  the  half  shell. 
Mock  Turtle  Soup. 
Bheny.  Fish,  Olives,  Sliced  Cucumbers. 

Mushrooms  on  Toast. 

Entrees. 


Champagna 

Filet  de  Boeuf . 

Potatoes  A  la  Reine,  Green  Pease. 

Boiled  Turkey,  Oyster  Sauce. 

Fbtatoes  &  la  Duchess,  Celery  Salad. 

Red  wines. 

Haunch  Yenison. 

Claret 

Currant  Jelly,  Lettuce  Salad. 

THE  DINING  ROOM.  '  476 

Quail  on  Toast 

Potato  Croquettes,  Dressed  Salad. 

Chicken  Salad. 

PfttS  of  Sweetbreads,  Cheese  Crackera. 

Bisque. 
Brown  Pudding  with  Brandy  Sauce. 


Dbssbbt. 


Sheny.  Pastry. 

Ices,  Wine,  Jellies,  Fruita 

Nuts,  Raisins,  Bon-Bons. 

Cake,  Confectionery. 

Black  Coffee. 

Cordials. 

A    WOBD  TO  THE   GuEST. 

When  using  the  knife  and  fork,  never  embrace  the  air  with  your 
elbows,  to  the  annoyance  of  your  neighbors. 

Never  make  a  clattering  noise  with  either  knife  or  fork.  The  fork 
is  held  in  the  right  hand,  and  is  used  like  a  spoon,  but  the  end  only 
is  proper  to  convey  food.  People  in  good  society  do  -.not  devour 
their  food,  nor  fill  their  mouth  to  such  an  extent  that  speaking  is 
impossible.  It  is  ill-mannered  to  load  the  fork  with  different  kinds 
of  vegetables  at  the  same  time.  Pease  should  be  taken  separately, 
then  potatoes,  and  so  on.  Never  play  with  your  food  or  dissect  it 
with  knife  or  fork,  as  if  you  expected  to  find  something.  Pie  and 
cheese  are  eaten  with  a  fork;  the  cheese  is  broken  with  a  fork  and 
can  then  be  taken  lightly  in  the  fingers.  Fish  is  eaten  with  the  fork 
only;  the  old  fashion  of  holding  a  bit  of  bread  in  the  left  hand  to 
asssist  the  fork  is  now  obsolete. 

To  point  your  fork  at  any  dish  or  object  is  very  ill-bred,  as  it  is 
to  twirl  it  in  conversation;  to  touch  a  piece  of  bread  with  it  is  also 
a  direct  breach  of  table  etiquette.  To  rap  on  your  goblet  or  wine- 
glass with  it  is  equally  improper. 


476  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

Jelly,  asparagus,  game  dressing,  melted  butter,  and  sauces  are 
conveyed  to  the  mouth  on  the  fork,  jelly  and  sigices  with  the 
meats. 

Never  scrape  your  plate  with  either  knife  or  fork.  Elegant 
eaters  are  noiseless  in  the  use  of  table  cutlery. 

Finger-bowls  are  served  at  all  well-appointed  dinner  tables,  and 
are  used  merely  to  dip  the  extreme  tips  of  the  fingers  in  before 
drying  them  on  a  napkin.  It  is  quite  customary,  when  finger-bowls 
are  not  on  the  table,  to  use  the  goblet,  but  the  practice  is  not  in 
accordance  with  etiquette.  Colored  or  decorated  bowls  are  most  in 
favor  now.  A  slice  of  lemon  or  a  few  drops  of  perfume  added  to 
the  water  makes  it  refreshing  to  the  lips  and  palms  of  the  hands; 
doyleys  are  used  to  wipe  the  finger-tips  on. 

It  is  almost  impossible  to  commit  any  dangerous  rudeness  with 
the  spoon,  as  with  the  fork  and  knife;  but  there  are  little  observ- 
ances in  handling  it  which  belong  to  grades  of  society,  and  which 
distinguish  the  person  using  it,  as  either  well  versed  or  deficient 
in  the  rules  of  table  etiquette. 

It  is  both  convenient  and  customary  to  take  soup  from  the  side 
of  the  spoop.  Tea  is  sipped  in  the  same  way.  The  point  of  the 
spoon  should  never  be  turned  to  the  mouth.  Never  drink  tea  or 
coffee  from  a  cup  with  a  spoon  in  it;  lay  the  spoon  in  the  saucer,  if 
there  is  one,  if  not,  the  liquid  must  be  sipped  with  the  spoon;  it 
should  never  be  taken  from  the  tea  to  use  in  ices  or  sweetmeats. 
If  a  second  spoon  is  not  served,  ask  the  waiter  for  one  in  a  quiet 
way.  At  dinners  a  spoon  is  sometimes  placed  with  the  fork  to 
assist  in  using  sauces,  or  liquid  entries;  but  it  should  not  be  used 
for  anything  where  the  service  of  a  fork  will  answer. 

The  napkin  should  be  laid  in  the  lap,  never  tucked  under  the 
chin,  or  spread  across  the  breast.  A  gentleman  should  lay  it  across 
the  right  knee;  when  he  has  finished,  he  lays  it  without  folding 
beside  his  plate.  As  soon  as  a  guest  is  seated  at  table,  he  removes 
his  gloves,  and  unfolds  the  table  napkin  partially  without  any 
awkward  flourishes,  and  spreads  it  on  his  knee.     This  is  done  while 


THE  DINING  ROOM.  477 

eonyersing  with  his  partfaer,  or  his  via-d-vis  in  a  matter-of-fact 
manner.  Nothing  else  is  touched  until  the  soup  is  served.  Never 
use  the  table  napkin  to  wipe  off  the  face. 

In  handling  a  wine  glass  it  should  be  taken  by  the  stem,  with 
two  or  three  fingers  delicately  poised,  and  sipped  quietly.  No  well- 
bred  person  drinks  wine  at  the  dinner  table;  it  is  only  sipped,  and 
the  glass  should  never  be  emptied. 

When  a  gentleman  asks  a  lady  to  take  wine,  he  expects  her  to 
name  the  kind  she  prefers,  of  which  he  also  will  partake.  It  is  not 
proper  to  say,  port  wine,  sherry  wine,  or  Madeira  wine.  It  is 
simply  spoken  of  as  port,  sherry,  or  Madeira. 

It  is  now  a  disputed  question  whether  waiters  should  be  thanked 
by  guests  when  served  or  not,  but  this  has  always  been  observed  in 
the  best  society,  either  verbally,  or  by  a  slight  inclination  of  the 
head. 

HOMB  DiNNBB. 

The  neatness  and  taste  with  which  a  dinner  table  is  arranged 
adds  greatly  to  the  comfort  of  a  dinner.  Excessive  display  at  a 
private  dinner  table  is  not  in  good  taste,  and  renders  the  meal 
uncomfortable.  Great  edifices  of  plated  ware,  huge  bouquets  and 
flo.wer-stands,  have  given  place  to  beautiful  china,  and  dainty 
bouquets,  and  fragile  cut-glasses,  and  low  banks  of  mosses  and 
ferns. 

All  the  napkins  used  should  be  folded  square  and  of  pure  white, 
monograms  and  colored  markings  being  considered  vulgar. 

If  any  garnishing  is  done,  parsley,  celery,  fine  lettuce,  water- 
cress, and  slices  of  lemon  may  be  used.  The  use  of  the  large  castor 
is  becoming  almost  obsolete.  The  castor  is  seldom  used  now,  but 
simply  a  vinegar  and  oil  cruet. 

The  table  may  be  laid  as  previously  described.  The  plates  may 
be  placed  in  a  pile  in  front  of  the  carver  or  one  at  each  seat.  The 
latter  is  more  generally  observed.  When  the  glasses  are  filled  and 
the  bread  handed  around  and  only  the  family  are  present,  the 


478  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

services  of  waiters  are  dispensed  with  until  the  coarse  is  to  be 
removed  and  the  dessert  is  placed  on  the  table. 

A  dinner  service  consists  of  a  covered  sonp-tnreen  and  ladle,  soup 
plates,  dining  plates,  fish  and  meat  platters,  deep  vegetable  dishes 
with  covers,  covered*  casseroles,  gravy-tureen,  salad  bowl,  sauce- 
boat,  cheese  tray,  different  kinds  of  dessert  dishes,  etc. 

White  dishes  are  out  of  style  for  private  tables.  Dresden,  French 
ohina,  Japanese,  are  the  wares  now  in  vogue;  these  are  exceedingly 
handsome,  and  can  be  purchased  at  very  reasonable  prices,  also  the 
Matt  blue,  Doric  blue,  coral,  and  flowing  blue  porcelains,  are  used 
very  much,  chiefly  for  breakfast  sets- 
Some  kind  of  salad  should  be  placed  on  the  table  with  the  roast, 
und  cheese  accompanies  the  dessert.  No  table  is  considered  en  rlgle 
if  wanting  the  orthodox  ipergne.  On  either  side  toward  the  ends 
of  the  table,  put  well-filled  celery  glasses,  and  disperse  about  the 
table  small  dishes  of  chow-chow,  jellies,  pickles,  crackers,  and  any- 
thing in  keeping  that  fancy  may  suggest; 

At  a  private  dinner  table  a  number  of  side  dishes  are  dispensed 
with,  as  this  disturbs  the  harmony  of  the  table.  Although  it  is  the 
common  practice  to  hand  dishes  around  and  let  each  guest  help 
himself  to  what  he  pleases,  yet  there  are  some  housewives  who  like 
to  have  everything  on  a  side-table,  and  dispense  the  side  dishes 
themselves;  but  it  looks  more  hospitable  and  less  formal  to  see  the 
host  and  hostess  at  the  table  enjoying  themselves  with  the  guests. 
An  ideal  hostess  is  one  who  presides  without  any  of  the  unpleasant 
flurry  and  nervousness  peculiar  to  some  women.  She  must  be 
unconscious  of  all  except  her  guests  and  their  individual  comforts; 

"  Mistress  of  herself,  though  china  fall." 
Bread  for  the  dinner  table  should  be  cut  in  thick  squares,  if  rolU 
are  not  used,  and  placed  in  the  fold  of  the  napkin,  or  it  is  quite 
customary  to  place  it  on  the  table  in  a  bread  tray.  Soup  is  the 
first  course.  All  should  accept  it,  even  if  they  let  it  remain 
untouched,  so  that  the  servant  will  not  serve  one  before  the  rest. 
Fish  follows  soup,  which  may  be  declined  if  one  chooses,  and  after 


THE  DINmO  ROOM.  479 

this  come  the  meats  and  side  dishes.  These  roles  are  safe  to 
follow,  being  the  rules  generally  observed  both  in  Europe  and 
America. 

The  head  of  the  table  is  generally  the  position  faithest  from  the 
door,  and  the  foot  is  opposite.  The  mistress  of  the  house  sits  at 
the  head  of  the  table  and  the  master  at  the  foot,  with  the  sideboard 
at  his  back. 

If  two  kinds  of  soups  are  given,  the  clear  or  white  soup  is  placed 
opposite  the  hostess.  Boiled  meats  and  puddings  are  likewise 
placed  opposite  her,  and  the  roasts,  joints,  and  pastry  are  served  by 
the  host. 

Whatever  sauces,  vegetables,  or  accompanying  relishes,  may  be 
desired,  with  certain  meats,  should  be  placed  on  the  table,  previous 
to  the  principal  dish  itself,  at  small  dinners — ^thus  if  mock  turtle 
soup  be  in  question,  cut  lemons  should  be  placed  previously  on  the 
table;  if  roast  beef,  horse-radish  dressed;  if  lamb,  mint  sauce;  if 
boiled  turkey,  oyster  sauce;  if  roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce,  etc., 
with  appropriate  gravies.  In  removing  dishes  from  the  table  the 
accessories  or  small  dishes  are  taken  away  first  and  the  principal 
dish  last. 

It  is  no  longer  considered  necessary,  even  at  the  plainest  dinners, 
to  have  more  than  one  dish  on  the  table  at  a  time — unless  the  party 
is  large. 

According  to  the  present  custom,  fish  is  not  placed  on  the  table 
till  the  soup  is  removed;  and  the  joints  are  not  kept  waiting  under 
cover  as  formerly,  till  the  made  dishes  are  handed  round.  In  these 
later  days,  each  dish  with  its  accompanying  vegetables  and  gravies 
constitutes  a  course.  The  plan  is  very  sensible,  and  tends  greatly 
to  t^e  successful  production  and  enhanced  enjoyment  of  every  kind 
of  dish.  Custom  now  only  sanctions  two  kinds  of  vegetables  with 
each  dish. 

A  word  to  the  uninitiated:  From  an  eminent  writer  on  dinner- 
giving:  "  Give  dinners  within  your  means.  Do  not  make  experi- 
ments.   Either  use  the  dishes  in  which  you  excel,  or  engage  a  good 


480  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

cook  to  give  yon  a  variety.  Never  apologize  for  a  dish;  if  it  iB  not 
good  keep  it  off  the  table.  Always  invite  people  of  congenial 
tastes  and  friendly  feelings.  Do  not  give  large  parties  if  you  want 
your  guests  to  enjoy  themselves.  In  the  arrangement  of  the  table 
a  spotless  doth,  clear  glasses,  and  shining  catlery,  feasts  the  sight 
before  the  substantial  meal  begins." 

Coffees  and  Luncheons. 

Coffees,  or  afternoon  receptions,  as  they  are  now  called,  are  very 
fashionable  of  late,  and  are  very  charming  in  forming  social  enter- 
tainments, and  have  been  in  great  demand  during  the  past  season 
among  ladies.  The  custom  (  Coffee  ITlatch)  has  been  hitherto  con- 
fined to  the  Jewish  and  Oerman  ladies,  who  entertain  afternoon 
callers  with  coffee,  cake  {jKuchen)^  and  ices.  Of  late,  the  custom 
has  been  adopted  by  the  American  ladies,  and  sometimes  is  carried 
on  on  a  very  grand  scale. 

The  term  kettledrum,  or  afternoon  reception,  is  used  for  the 
formal  invitation,  which  is  written  or  engraved  on  a  large  square 
card,  embellished  in  one  comer  with  some  appropriate  design,  such 
as  a  coffee  urn,  cup  and  saucer,  or  a  wonderful  fat-looking  teapot, 
hospitably  steaming.    The  form  of  wording  is  generally  thus: 

Thurtday,  Febfuofry  14, 
40  OrukkBhank  Lane.  OoffM  ai  S  o'doek, 

or 

Baturday,  Dee.  S. 
38  Sj^edina  Ave.  Tea  at  4  o*eloek. 

Gentlemen  are  sometimes  included  in  the  invitations.  Artists, 
authors, '  musicians,  and  literary  savants;  but  they  should  not  be 
invited  in  any  professional  sense  for  the  purpose  of  entertaining 
the  guests.  It  is  not  in  good  taste  to  urge  people  to  sing,  play,  or 
read  at  such  gatherings,  when  it  is  their  business  to  do  these  things- 


i 


THE  DUONG  ROOM.  481 

in  pablio.  They  are  supposed  to  attend  for  recreation  and  pleasure. 
It  is  not'  well  mannered  for  one  guest  to  invite  or  urge  another 
guest  to  play,  sing,  or  read.  All  such  requests  should  come  from 
the  hoitess. 

At  a  kettledrum,  the  time  is  passed  in  greeting  friends,  discon- 
nected fragments  of  conversation,  listening  to  music,  or  recitations, 
and,  the  best  of  all,  in  partaking  of  good  cheer  from  the  groaning 
refreshment  table. 

The  table  should  be  laid  out  in  good  taste,  with  graceful  flowers, 
elegant  china,  and  good  eatables. 

At  one  kettledrum,  they  drink  coffee  or  chocolate,  at  another 
lea,  and  sometimes  beef  tea  is  also  served,  but  this  is  optional  with 
the  hostess.  The  metiu  generally  consists  of  salads,  bisque,  sweet- 
breads, oyster  p&t6s  (these  are  served  on  paper  shells),  pickles, 
tongue,  biscuits,  cakes,  with  a  full  accompaniment  of  fruits,  bon- 
bons, and  ices.  ^ 

At  these  receptions.no  two  pieces  of  china  should  be  alike,  and 
when  every  piece  is  of  different  style  and  pattern,  the  china  is  con- 
sidered a  perfect  success.  Whole  sets  of  china  can  be  purchased 
(in  these  SBSthetic  days)  all  in  odd  pieces. 

Guests,  if  seated,  eat  at  small  tables,  which  are  served  from  the 
large  one ;  but  when  the  hostess  wishes  to  be  more  formal,  the 
guests  eat  from  the  large  table,  while  standing.  The  bonnets  are 
not  discarded  and  only  one  hand  is  ungloved.  The  experienced 
guest  hardly  ever  remains  more'  than  an  hour,  when  she  makes  hei 
adieux  to  the  members  of  the  family,  and  drops  in,  after  a  day  or 
two,  to  make  a  ceremonious  call  of  a  few  minutes.  The  dress  worn 
at  an  afternoon  reception  should  consist  of  a  calling  costume. 

Evening  receptions  are  conducted  on  the  same  principle,  with  the 
exception  of  the  dress  being  more  conventicmal,  the  carriage  dress 
being  usually  worn. 

Glentlemen  wear  dress-coats,  light  trousers,  and  light  kids.  GkxKl 
music  is  generally  furnished,  and  occasionally  impromptu  dancing 
10  engaged  in.    The  guests  go  into  the  dining-r\K>m  in  couples  or 


482 


THE  DINING  ROOM. 


groups,  while  the  reception  lasts,  which  is  usually  from  eight  to 
eleven. 

The  form  of  the  card  has  the  name  of  the  hostess  and  the  lady 
who  receives  with  her,  or  any  lady  guest  stopping  at  her  house,  and 
the  guest  who  cannot  attend  will  send  regrets,  if  the  card  bears  the 
letters  "R.  S.  V.  R"  (Eipondez  s^U  voua  plait)  in  the  corner;  but 
if  they  are  omitted,  the  invited  guest  will  simply  enclose  a  card  in 
an  envelope  and  send  it. 

LUNCHBOKS. 

Invitations  to  luncheons  are  less  formal  than  those  to  a  dinner, 
but  should  be  answered  as  readily,  so  that  the  hostess  may  be 
assured  of  her  number  of  guests.  Ladies  go  in  elegant  street  dress, 
with  the  addition  of  gay  bonnets  and  fresh  gloves.  Knots  of 
natural  flowers,  such  as  Jacque,  and  Bon  Selene  roses,  Boston  buds. 
The  sasthetic  Sunflower  and  Tiger  lily  are  worn  in  accordance  with 
the  present  custom  of  floral  decorations. 

At  an  important  luncheon,  the  bonnet;  but  not  the  gloves  are 
retained.  Where  the  guests  are  all  well  acquainted,  a  pleasant  and 
enjoyable  affair  is  passed. 

One  waiter,  if  experienced,  should  be  enough  for  a  small  lunch 
party,  as  the  hostess  and  young  ladies  of  the  house  always  assist 
in  serving  guests  on  such  occasions. 

The  table  should  be  elegantly  laid  out  and  dressed  appropriately 
with  seasonable  flowers,  roses,  if  it  is  in  June;  autumn  leaves  and 
flowers  in  the  fall;  and  exotics  in  mid- winter;  small  flat  crosses  of 
croquelle  glass,  half  moons,  stars,  and  lucky  horse-shoes,  may  be 
placed  on  the  table  comers,  filled  with  cut  flowers.  In  the  center 
an  'elaborate  pQee  de  resistance  of  either  fruit  or  flowers,  or  both 
mingled  artistically.  The  bill  of  fare  for  an  elegant  luncheon  is 
varied  with  the  season;  but  the  following  may  prove  very  sug- 
gestive: 

Raw  Oysters  on  half  sheU. 

Brouillon  in  cups. 

Sherry. 

CSiicken  in  scallop  shells. 


?:i    i'iitfUtliii 


t=IS&     a- 


,ltir,.\^ 


is? 


^   to    ^ 


11^ 


s~^ 


•V" 


484  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

MARCH. 

Clear  Boup. 
Oyster  Pie.  Smothered  Chicken.  Qreen 

Celery. 

Venison  Steaks.  Beef  ft  la  Mode. 

Lettuce  Salad.  Baked  Tomatoes. 

Crackers  and  Cheese.         Sliced  Apple  Pie. 

Turret  Cream.  Fruit  Black  Coffee. 


APRIL. 

Oysters  on  the  half  shelL 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Baked  Shad.  PAt6  of  Sveetbraada. 

Spinach  and  Bggs.  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Snipe  on  Toast  Celery. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton.  Caper  Sauce.    Salad. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower. 

Pudding.  Lemon  Ice.  FVoit  Coffee. 


I 
MAY.  ! 

Noodle  Soup. 

Boiled  Bass,  with  Mushrooms.  Roast  Sweetbreads^ 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes.  Oreen  Pease. 

Broiled  Squabs  Roast  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce. 

Asparagus  on  Toast  Tomato  Salad. 

Strawberry  Short-cake  and  Cream. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange.  Fruit  and  Ices.  CafI  Moia. 


JUNE. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

Boiled  Salmon.  Lamb  Chops 

Potatoes  &  la  Reine.  Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Broiled  Chickens.  Beef  Tongue. 

Mushrooms  on  Toast  Green  Pease. 

Snow  Custard.     Ices.      Fruit  and  Dessert  Strawberriea.     Ooffear 


THB  DINIKO  ROOM. 


JULY. 
Soup. 


Broiled  MackereL 
Raw  Cucumbers. 
Salmi  of  Ducks. 
Boiled  Corn. 

Raspberry  Pie. 


Fried  Chickit» 
Salad. 
Roast  Beef. 
New  Potatoes. 
Bisque. 


Crackers  and  Cheese. 


Tniit 


Coffee. 


X 

AUGUST. 
Clear  Soup. 

Jlllets  of  Halibut. 

Potatoes  ft  la  Reiaa. 

Chicken  l^M. 

Deviled  Tomatoes. 

BroUed  Woodcock. 

» 

Boiled  Tongue. 

Green  Pease. 

Stuffed  'Egg  Plant. 

Peach  Pie.       Melons. 

Crackers  and  Cheese.        Ices.        OofllM. 

SEPTEMBER 

Raw  Oysters. 

Baked  Fish.                    Carserole  of  Rice,  with  Chicken  and  Tongwe. 

Pototoes  au  Mftitre  d'Hdtel.  Deviled  Crabs. 

Mock  Quails.  Roast  Lamb. 

Spinach  A  la  Crdme.     Salad.  Cream  Squash. 

Podding.              Peach  Ice-Cream.  Coffee.              FmH. 


OCTOBER 

Raw  Oysters. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Oyster  Pftt6.  Fricass€e  of  Calf  s  Tongwi 

Salad.  Potatoes  &  la  Duchess. 

Chickens  and  Mushrooms. 

Roast  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding. 
Creamed  Cauliflower.  Sweet  Potatoes, 

Amber  Pudding.         Sponge  Cake. 
Trait.  Bon-Bons.  Ices.  Oaf6Nolr. 


; 


486  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

NOVEMBER 

Chicken  and  Cream  Soup. 

PUined  Oyaten.  Roast  Turkey,  Cranbeny  Sauce. 

Celery  Salad  Potatoes  ft  la  Reine. 

Fricassee  of  Grouse.  Roast  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Potatoes  ft  la  Duchess.  Salsify  Saute. 

Sliced  Bread  and  Butter.  Apple  Meringue  Pie. 

TturUeta.           Wine  Jellies.  Bon-Bons.           Ices.           Coffee. 


DECEMBER 

Oysters  on  the  half  shell 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Lofaeter  Croquettes.  Stewed  Pigeons. 

Potatoes  ft  la  Reine.  Lima  Beans. 

Boiled  Turk^  with  Oyster  Sauce. 

Roast  Haunch  of  Venison.    Potatoes  ft  la  Duchess. 

Currant  Jelly.  Lettuce  Salad.  Green  Pease. 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue.  Sauce  Piquant 

Sweet  Potatoes.  Oyster  Salad. 

Roast  Duck. 

Chicken  Salad.  Potato  Chips. 

Quail  on  Toast    Crackers  and  Cheese. 

Mince  Pie.  Wine  Jellies.  Bisque  Cream. 

Fruits  and  Ices,  Bon-Bons.  Coffee. 

Garnishing.  Christmas  Holly. 

Allowance  of  Supplibs  fob 'an  Entbbtainmbnt. 

In  inviting  guests,  it  is  safe  to  calcalate  that  out  of  one  hundred 
and  fifty,  but  two-thirds  of  the  number  will  be  present.  If  five 
hundred  are  invited,  not  more  than  three  hundred  can  be  connted 
upon  as  acoepting. 

Allow  one  quart  of  oysters  to  every  three  persons  present.  Five 
chickens  (or,  what  is  better,  a  ten-pound  turkey,  boiled  and  minced), 
and  fifteen  heads  of  celery,  are  enough  for  chicken  salad  for  fifty 
gnests ;  one  gallon  of  ice-cream  to  every  twenty  guests ;  one 
hundred  and  thirty  sandwiches  for  one  hundred  guests;  and  six  to 


THE  DINING  ROOM.  487 

ten  quarts  of  wine  jelly  for  each  hundred.  For  a  company  of 
twenty,  allow  three  chickens  for  salad;  one  hundred  pickled 
oysters;  two  moulds  of  Charlotte  Russe;  one  gallon  of  cream;  and 
four  dozen  biscuits. 

Cold  Lunchss  fob  Washing  Days,  ob  Othsb  Days  op  Extba 

Labob. 
Lunch,  No.  1. — Cold  corned  beef,  nicely  sliced,  baked  potatoes,  bread,  but- 
ter, and  pickles.    Dessert — mince  pie  and  cheese. 

Lunch,  No.  2. — Chicken  pie,  baked  potatoes,  rolled  bread  or  biscuit. 
Dessert— cake  and  custard. 

I 

Lunch,  No.  8. — First  course:  Raw  oysters,  with  lemon  and  crackers. 
Second  course:  Cold  veal,  with  jelly  and  Saratoga  potatoes;  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert— cherry  pie  with  cheese. 

Lunch,  No.  4. — Casserole  of  fish,  with  mushroom  catsup,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert— Pie  and  cheese. 

Economical  Dinnbbs. 

Sunday.— Roast  Beef,  potatoes,  and  greens.  Dessert— pudding,  or  pie, 
cheese. 

Monday. — ^Hashed  beef,  .potatoes,  and  bread  pudduig. 

Tuesday.— Broiled  beef,  yegetables,  apple  pudding, 

Wbdnbsday.— Boiled  pork,  beans,  potatoes,  greens,  and  pie  or  rice  pudding. 

Thubsday. — Roast  or  broiled  fowl,  cabbage,  potatoes,  lemon  pie,  cheese. 

Friday. — ^Fish,  potato  croquettes,  escalloped  tomatoes,  pudding. 

Saturday,—.^  la  mode  beef,  potatoes,  yegetables,  suet  pudding  and  mincQ 
pie,  cheese. 


CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

THE   AQUARIUM. 

HAT  happens,  when  we  put  half  a  dozen  goldfish  in  a  glolMf 
Tlie  fishes  gulp  in  water  and  expel  it  at  the  gills.  As  it 
passes  through  the  gills,  whatever  free  oxygen  the  water 
contains  is  absorbed,  and  carbonic  acid  given  off  in  its  place; 
and  in  course  of  time,  the  free  oxygen  of  the  water  is  exhausted, 
the  water  becomes  stale,  and  at  last  poisonous,  from  excess  of  car- 
bonic acid.  If  the  water  is  not  changed,  the  fishes  come  to  the 
surface  and  gulp  atmospheric  air.  But  though  they  naturally 
breathe  air  (oxygen)  as  we  do,  yet  they  are  formed  to  extract  it 
from  the  water;  and  when  compelled  to  take  air  from  the  surface 
the  gills,  or  lungs,  soon  get  inflamed,  and  death  at  last  puts  an  end 
to  their  sufferings.  Now,  if  a  fish  globe  be  not  over-crowded  with 
fishes,  we  have  only  to  throw  in  a  goodly  handful  of  some  water 
weed,  such  as  the  Brook  Starwort,  for  instance,  and  a  new  set  of 
chemical  operations  commences  at  once,  and  it  becomes  unnecessary 
to  change  the  water.  The  reason  of  this  is  easily  explained.  Plants 
absorb  oxygen  as  animals  do;  but  they  also  absorb  carbonic  acid, 
and  from  the  carbonic  acid  thus  absorbed  they  remove  the  pure 
carbon,  and  convert  it  into  vegetable  tissue,  giving  out  the  free 
oxygen  either  to  the  water  or  the  air,  as  the  case  may  be.  Hence, 
in  a  vessel  containing  water-plants  in  a  state  of  healthy  growth,  the 
plants  exhale  more  oxygen  than  they  absorb,  and  thus  replace  that 
which  the  fishes  require  for  maintaining  healthy  respiration.  Any 
one  who  will  observe  the  plants  in  an  aquarium,  when  the  sun 
shines  through  the  tank,  will  see  the  leaves  studded  with  bright 
beads,  some  of  them  sending  up   continuous   streams   of  minute 


TBB  AQUAHIUH.  486 

bubbles.     These   beads    &n<]   bubbles  are  pure  oxygen,  which  the 
plBBta  distil  from  the  water  itself,  in  order  to  obtain  its  hydrogen. 


and  from  carbonic  acid,  in  order  to  obtain  its  carbon.  Thna  th» 
water,  if  the  due  proportion  of  its  animal  and  VL'getable  tenants  be 
observed,  need  never  be  ch'^ngcd. 


4&0  THE  AQUARIUM. 

This  is  the  true  Aquarium,  which  aims  to  imitate  the  balanoe 

of  Nature.     By  this  balance  the  whole  organic  world  is  kept  living 

and   healthy.     For    !»iirn^N    are 

dependent    upon    the    vegetable 

kingdom  not  only   for   all   their 

food,  but  also  for  the  purification 

of  the  ail,  which  they  all  breathe, 

'  either  in  the  atmosphere  or  in  the 

water.    The  divine  simplicity  of 

this  stupendous  scheme  may  well 

ohallenge  our  admiration.     Each  living  thing,  animal  or  plant,  uses 

what  the  other  rejects,  and  gives  back  to  the  air  what  the  other 

needa. 

The  balance  must  be  perfect,  or  all  life  must  expire,  and  vanish 
from  the  earth.  This  is  the  balance  which  we  imitate  in  the  aqua- 
rium. It  is  the  whole  law  of  life,  the  whole  scheme  of  nature,  the 
whole  equilibrium  of  our  organic  world,  inclosed  in  a  bottle. 

When  we  speak  of  an  aquarium,  we  mean  a  vessel  holding  from 
eight  to  fhirty  gallons  of  water.  A  large  tank  should  be  about  two 
feet  long  by  eighteen  inches  wide  and  eighteen  inches  deep,  and 
holding  about  twenty  gallons.  Smaller  and  very  pretty  tanks  may 
be  made  fifteen  inches  long  by  twelve  inches  wide  and  twelve  deep. 
Great  variety  in  form  and  elegance  may  be  adapted  to  various 
situations. 

Any  vessel  that  will  hold  water  can,  of  course,  he  readily  con- 
verted into  an  aquarium.  But  as  we  want  a  clear  view  of  the  con- 
tents at  all  times,  glass  is  the  best  material,  and  since  glass  globes 
refract  the  light  irregularly  and  magnify  and  distort  whatever  is 
within  tbem,  we  shall  find  an  advantage  in  having  the  sides  parallel 
and  the  form  rectangular.  As  the  weight  of  the  aquarium,  when 
filled  with  water,  is  enormous — far  more  than  we  should  at  first 
imagine — it  follows  that  it  must  be  capable  of  resisting  pressure 
both  from  above  and  from  within.  The  floor  and  stand,  the  frame 
and  joints,  must  be  strong  and  compact,  and  the  walls  of  plate  or 


TtlB  AQUAIUUH.  49] 

thick  cravn  glase.     The  bottom  should  be  of  slate;  and  if  it  is 
designed  to  attach  arches  of  rock-work  inside  to  the  ends,  they,  too, 
shoold  be  of  slate,  as  cement  will  not  stick  to  glass.     The  frame 
sbonld  be  iron,  zinc,  or  well-turned  wood;  the  joints  closed  with 
white  lead  putty;  the  front  and  back  of  glass.     There  is  one  objec- 
tion to  having  the  side 
which  faces  the  light 
of    transparent   glass, 
and    that    is    that    it 
transmits     too     muoh 
glare  of  sunlight    for 
the  health  of  the  ani- 
mals.    In  Nature's  aquarium  the  light  enters  only  from  above,  and 
the  Bsh  and  delicate  creatures  have  always,  even  then,  the  shady 
fronds  of  aquatic  plants  or  the  shelter  of  rocks — as  well  as  the 
power  of  seeking  greater  depths  of  water,  where  the  light  is  less — 
to  protect  themselves  from  too  intense  a  Bunshine.    It  is,  therefore, 
sometimes  desirable  to  have  the  window  side  of  the  aquarium  made 
of  glass  stained  of  a  green  color.     It  is  desirable  that  all  aquarial 
tanks  should  have  a  movable  glass  cover  to  protect  them  from  dust, 
impure  gases,  and  smoke. 

The  tank  being  prepared  and  well  seasoned  by  being  kept  several 

weeks  alternately  full  and  empty,  and  exposed  to  the  sun  and  air 

BO  that  all  p^nt,  oil,  varnish,  tannin,  etc.,  may  be  wholly  removed; 

tho  ni'xt  thing  is  to  arrange  the  bottom  and  plant  it.     Some  rough 

fragments  of  rock,  free 

from    iron    or     other 

metals  that  stain  the 

water,   may   be   built 

into  an  arch  with  ce- 

>  ment,   or  piled  up  in 

any  shape  to  suit  the 

fancy.     The  bottom  should  bo  composed  entirely  of  pebbles,  well 


492  THE  AQUARIUM. 

washed.  Common  silver  sand,  washed  until  the  watee  otm  be 
poured  through  it  quite  clear,  is  also  suitable. 

Mould,  or  soil  adapted  to'  ordinary  vegetation,  is  not  necessaiy 
to  the  aquatic  plants,  and  is,  moreover,  worse  than  useless,  since  it 
necessitates  the  frequent  changing  of  the  water  for  some  time,  in 
order  to  get  rid  of  the  soluble  vegetable  matter,  and  promotes  the 
growth  of  conf erv8B  and  other  low  forms  of  vegetation,  which  are 
obnoxious.  Aquatic  plants  of  all  kinds  have  been  found  to  root 
freely  and  flourish  in  pebbles  alone,  if  their  roots  be  covered  The 
plants  should  be  carefully  cleared  of  all  dead  parts;  the  roots 
attached  to  a  small  stone,  or  laid  on  the  bottom  and  covered  with  a 
layer  of  pebbles  and  sand. 

The  bottom  being  planted,  the  water  may  be  introduced  through 
a  watering-pot,  or  poured  against  the  side  of  the  tank,  so  as  t» 
Avoid  any  violent  agitation  of  the  bottom.  The  water  should  be 
pure  and  bright.  River  water  is  best;  spring  water  will  do,  but 
must  be  softened  by  the  plants  for  some  days  before  the  fishes  are 
put  in. 

Sunshine  is  good  for  the  tank  at  all  seasons  of  the  year.  The 
fresh  requires  more  than  the  salt-water  aquarium.  The  amount  of 
oxygen  given  off  by  the  plants,  and  hence  their  growth  and  the 
sprightliness  of  the  fishes,  are  very  much  increased  while  the  sui 
is  shining  on  them. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  aquaria,  the  fresh  and  salt  water;  the  one 
fitted  for  the  plants  and  animals  of  ponds  and  rivers;  the  other  for 
the  less  known  tenants  of  the  sea.  They  are  best  described  as  the 
River  and  the  Marine  Aquarium,  as  they  diffor  somewhat  from  each 
other.     We  shall  speak  first  of  the  fresh-water  aquarium. 

In  selecting  plants  for  the  aquarium,  some  regard  is  to  be  paid  to 
the  amount  of  oxygen  they  will  evolve,  and  to  their  hardiness,  as 
well  as  to  their  beauty.  When  it  is  desired  to  introduce  the  fishes 
without  waiting  long  for  the  plants  to  get  settled  and  to  have  gives 
off  a  good  supply  of  oxygen,  there  is  no  plant  more  useful  than  the 
Brook  Starwort.     It  is  necessary  to  get  a  good  supply,  and  pto>  off 


THE  AQUARIUM.  499 

ih^  green  heads,  with  foar  or  six  inches  only  of  stem;  wash  them 
clean,  and  throw  them  into  the  tank  without  planting.  They 
spread  over  the  surface,  forming  a  rich  green  ceiling,  grow  freely, 
and  last  for  months.  They  are  continually  throwing  out  new  roots 
and  shoots,  and  create  ahundance  of  oxygen.  Whenever  desired, 
they  can  be  got  rid  of  by  simply  lifting  them  out. 

The  Tape  Grass,  common  in  all  our  ponds,  is  essential  to  every 
fresh-water  tank.  It  must  be  grown  as  a  bottom  plant,  and 
flourishes  only  when  rooted. 

The  Nitella  is  another  pleasing  variety.  The  Water-Crowfoot  is 
to  be  found  in  almost  every  pond  in  bloom  by  the  middle  of  May^ 
and  continues  so  into  the  autumn.  It  is  of  the  buttercup  family,, 
and  may  be  known  as  a  white  buttercup  with  a  yellow  center.  The 
floating  leaves  are  fleshy,  the  lower  one  finely  cut.  It  must  be  very 
carefully  washed,  and  planted  from  a  good  joint,  allowing  length 
enough  of  stem  to  reach  the  surface.  Some  of  the  blossom  heads 
may  also  be  sprinkled  over  the  surface,  where  they  will  live  and 
bloom  all  through  the  summer. 

The  Frog's  Bit,  the  Water  Plantain  and  the  Water-Cress  are  also 
easily  obtained,  hardy  and  useful  as  well  as  pleasing.  Many  rarer 
and  more  showy  varieties  may  be  cultivated;  we  have  given  only 
the  most  common  and  essential.  All  the  varieties  of  Chard  are 
interesting  to  the  microscopLst,  as  showing  the  phenomenon  of  the 
circulation  of  the  sap  or  cyclosis. 

Oi  the  living  tenants  of  the  aquarium,  those  most  interesting,  as 
well  as  of  the  highest  organization,  are  the  fishes.  And  among 
fishes,  the  carp  family  are  the  best  adapted  to  our  purpose;  for  we 
must  select  those  which  are  both  hardy  and  tamable.  The  Prus- 
sian carp  is  one  of  the  best;  it  will  survive  even  if  the  water  should 
accidentally  become  almost  exhausted  of  oxygen.  It  may  be  taught 
also  to  feed  from  the  hand.  None  of  the  carp  are  very  carnivorous. 
The  goldfish  is  one  of  the  most  ornamental  objects  in  an  aquarium. 
But  the  minnow  is  the  jolliest  little  fish  in  the  tank.  He  is  the  life. 
of   the  collection,   and  will  survive  the  severest  trials  of  heat 


494  THE  AQUARIUM. 

and  cold.  The  chub,  a  common  tenant  of  our  ponds,  is  also  a  good 
subject  for  domestication.  The  tench  and  loach  are  very  interest- 
ing, but  also  very  delicate.  Among  the  spiny-finned  fishes,  the 
stickle-backs  are  the  prettiest,  but  so  savage  that  they  often  occa- 
sion much  mischief.  For  a  vessel  containing  twelve  gallons  the 
following  selection  of  live  stock  is  among  those  recommended:  Three 
Gold  Carp,  three  Prussian  Carp,  two  Perch,  four  large  Loach,  a 
dozen  Minnows,  six  Bleak,  and  two  dozen  Planorbis.  Some  varie- 
ties of  the  Water-Beetles,  or  Water-Spiders,  which  the  fishes  do  not 
eat,  may  also  well  be  added.  The  Newt,  too,  is  attractive  and 
harmless. 

All  may  go  on  well,  and  the  water  remain  clear;  but  after  the 
tank  has  been  established  several  weeks,  the  iimer  sides  of  the  glass 
will  show  a  green  tinge,  which  soon  increases  and  interferes  with 
the  view.  This  is  owing  to  the  growth  of  a  minute  conf ervoid 
vegetation,  which  must  be  kept  down.  For  this  purpose  the  snail 
is  the  natural  remedy,  being  the  ready  scavenger  of  all  such  nui- 
sances. Snails  cling  to  the  sides  and  clean  away  and  consume  all 
such  vegetable  growth.  The  Lynmea  is  among  the  most  efficient, 
but  unfortunately  is  destructive,  by  eating  holes  in»  the  young 
fronds  of  the  larger  plants,  and  thus  injuring  their  appearance.  To 
this  objection  some  other  variety  of  snails  are  not  open.  The 
Paludina  and  Planorbis  are  the  only  kinds  which  are  trustworthy. 
The  former  is  a  handsome  snail,  with  a  bronze-tint  globular  shell; 
the  latter  has  a  spiral  form.  These  will  readily  reduce  the  vegeta- 
tion. And  to  preserve  the  crystal  clearness  of  the  water,  some 
Mussels  may  be  allowed  to  burrow  in  the  sand,  where  they  will 
perform  the  office  of  animated  filters.  They  strain  off  matters  held 
in  suspension  in  the  water,  by  means  of  their  siphons  and  ciliated 
gills.  With  these  precautians  a  well-balanced  tank  will  long  retain 
all  the  pristine  purity  of  Nature. 

Specimens  for  the  river  aquarium  may  be  readily  obtained  in 
almost  any  brook  or  pool,  by  means  of  the  hand-net  or  dredge.  It 
will  be  astonishing  to  see  the  variety  of  objects  brought  up  by  a 


TilK  AI^UAKiUM.  ' 


] 


49v*  TRR  AQUARIUM. 

Buuo^Hful  haul.  Small  fish,  newts,  tad-poles,  mollusks,  water* 
beet^M,  worms,  spiders,  and  spawn  of  all  kinds  will  be  visible  to 
the  uaked  eye,  wbUe  the  microscope  will  bring  out  thousands  more 
of  the  most  beautiful  objects. 

A  very  different  style  of  appearance  and  of  objects  distinguishea 
the  ialt-water  or  Marine  Aquarium. 

As  the  greater  part  of  the  most  curious  live  stock  of  the  salt 
water  aquarium  live  upon  or  near  the  bottom,  so  the  marine  tank 
should  be  more  shallow,  and  allow  an  uninterrupted  view  from 
Bibove.  Marine  creatures  are  more  delicately  constituted  than  fresh 
water  ones;  and  they  demand  more  care,  patience,  and  oversight  to 
lender  the  marine  aquarium  successful. 

Sea-sand  and  pebbles,  washed  clean,  form  the  best  bottom  for  tho 
salt-water  aquarium.  It  must  be  recollected  that  many  of  the 
marine  tenants  are  burrowers,  and  require  a  bottom  adapted  to 
their  habits.  Some  rock-work  is  considered  essential  to  afford  a 
grateful  shelter  and  concealment  to  such  creatures  as  are  timid  by 
nature,  and  require  a  spot  in  which  to  hide.  This  is  true  of  many 
fishes.  Branches  of  coral,  bedded  in  cement,  may  be  introduced, 
and  form  beautiful  and  natural  objects  on  which  plants  win  climb 
and  droop  gracefully.  ' 

Sea-water,  dipped  from  the  open  sea,  away  from  the  mouths  of 
rivers,  is,  of  course,  the  best  for  the  marine  aquarium.  If  pure,  it 
will  bear  transportation  and  loss  of  time  before  being  put  into  the 
tank.  It  may,  however,  not  always  be  possible  to  get  sea-water, 
particularly  for  the  aquarium  remote  from  the  seaboard,  and  it  is, 
therefore,  fortunate  that  artificial  sea-water  will  answer  every 
purpose. 

The  composition  of  natural  sea-water  is,  in  a  thousand  parts, 
approximately  as  follows:  Water,  964  parts;  Common  Salt,  27; 
Chloride  of  Magnesium,  3.6;  Chloride  of  Potassium,  0.7;  Sulphate 
of  Magnesia  (Epsom  Salts),  2;  Sulphate  of  lime,  1.4;  Bromide  of 
Magnesium,  Carbonate  of  Lime,  etc.,  .02  to  .03  parts.  Now  the- 
Bromide  of  Magnesium,  and  Sulphate  and  Carbonate  of  lime,  occur 


THE  AQUARIUM.  497 

in  snob  small  quantities  that  they  can  be  safely  omitted  in  making 
artificial  sea-water;  and  besides,  river  and  spring  water  always  con* 
tain  a  considerable  proportion  of  lime.  Therefore,  according  to 
Mr.  Qosse,  we  may  use  the  following  formula:  In  every  one  hun- 
dred parts  of  the  solid  ingredients.  Common  Salt,  81  parts;  Epsom 
Salts,  7  parts;  Chloride  of  Magnesium,  10  parts;  Chloride  of  Potas- 
sium, 2  parts;  and  of  water  about  2900  parts,  although  this  must 
be  accurately  determined  by  the  specific  gravity. 

The  mixture  had  better  be  allowed  to  stand  several  days  before 
filling  the  tank;  for  thus  the  impurities  of  the  chemicals  will  settle, 
and  the  clear  liquor  can  be  decanted  off.  The  specific  gravity 
should  then  be  tested  with  the  hydrometer,  and  may  safely  range 
from  1026  to  1028,  fresh  water  being  1000.  If  a  quart  or  two  of  real 
sea  water  can  be  obtained,  it  is  a  ver^  useful  addition  to  the  mix- 
ture. It  may  now  be  introduced  into  the  tank  through  a  filter. 
But  no  living  creature  must  be  introduced  until  the  artificial  water 
has  been  softened  and  prepared  by  the  growth  of  the  marine  plants 
in  it  for  several  weeks.  Thus,  too,  it  will  be  oxygenated  and  ready 
for  the  oxygen-using  tenants.  It  is  a  singular  fact,  that  water 
which  ha?  been  thus  prepared,  with  only  four  ingredients,  will, 
after  being  a  month  or  more  in  the  aquarium,  acquire  the  other 
constituents  which  are  normally  present  in  minute  quantities  in  the 
natural  sea  water.  It  must  derive  them  from  the  action  of  the 
plants  or  animals,  or  both.  Bromine  may  come  from  sponges,  or 
sea  wrack,  perhaps.  Thus  artificial  water  eventually  rights  itself. 
The  tank  having  been  prepared  and  seasoned  with  the  same  precau- 
tion used  for  the  river  aquarium,  and  having  a  clear  bottom  and  a 
supply  of  good  water,  is  now  ready  for  planting.  Many  beautifully- 
colored  and  delicately-fringed  Algse  and  sea  wracks  will  be  found 
on  the  rocks  at  low  tide,  and  will  sadly  tempt  the  enthusiast  to 
consign  their  delicate  hues  to  the  aquarium.  All  such  temptations 
must  be  resisted.  Green  is  the  only  color  well  adapted  for  healthy 
and  oxygenating  growth  in  the  new  tank.  A  small  selection  of  the 
purple  or  red  varieties  may  perhaps  be  introduced  and  successfully 


600  THE  AQUARIUM. 

square  inch.  NoW|  a  modepate-sized  specimen  will  afford,  with  all 
its  convolutions,  at  least  one  hundred  square  inches  of  wall,  which 
would  contain  a  population  of  five  hundred  and  seventy-six  thou- 
sand inhabitants — 2l  very  large  city. 

Finally  come  the  fishes,  many  of  which  are  of  similar  genera  to 
those  recommended  for  the  fresh-water  tank.  The  Black  Groby 
is  familiar,  tamable,  but  voracious;  the  Gray  Mullet  is  very  hardy,  * 
but  also  rather  savage;  the  Wrasses  are  some  of  the  most  showy 
fish — called  in  some  parts  of  the  country  Gunners — and  of  these 
the  ancient  Wrasse,  covered  with  a  net-work  of  vermilion  meshes 
on  a  brown  and  white  ground,  is  the  most  elegant. 

Some  points  of  general  management  are  so  important,  and  some 
dangers  so  imminent,  that  we  cannot  pass  them  by  unnoticed.  The 
aquarian  enthusiast  is  very  apt  to  be  in  too  great  haste  to  see  every- 
thing going  on,  and  commits  the  common  error  of  trying  too  many 
things  at  once.  The  aquarium  must  be  built  up  slowly  and  tenta- 
tively, object  by  object;  plants  first,  and  of  the  simplest  kinds;  and 
not  until  they  are  well  settled,  and  the  water  beaded  with  oxygen 
bubbles,  should  we  think  of  introducing  living  creatures — ^and  even 
then  only  the  hardiest  kinds  of  actinias,  mollusks,  and  crabs.  All 
delicate  animals  must  be  entrusted  one  by  one  to  their  new  home, 
and  carefully  watched  for  deaths  and  decay,  which,  whether  arising 
from  dead  plants  or  animals,  ruin  everything  very  quickly,  unless 
they  be  promptly  removed.  For  sulphuretted  liydrogen  even  in 
very  minute  quantities,  is  sure  death  to  all  these  little  creatures. 

The  emanations  from  paint  and  putty  are  often  fatal  in  new 
tanks.  Several  weeks'  exposure  to  water,  air,  and  sunlight  is 
necessary  to  season  the  new-made  aquarium. 

A  certain  natural  density  of  the  sea-water  must  also  be  preserved, 
ranging  between  no  wider  limits  than  1026  and  1028.  And  in  the 
open  tank  evaporation  is  constantly  deranging  this,  and  must  be 
met  by  a  supply  from  without.  As  the  pure  water  alone  evaporates, 
and  the  salts  and  earthy  or  mineral  constituents  are  left  behind, 
two  things  result:  the  water  remaining  becomes  constantly  more 


THE  AQUARIUM.  601 

dense;  and  this  can  be  remedied  only  by  pure  fresh  water  poured 
in  to  restore  the  equilibrium.  Hence,  the  marine  aquarium  must 
be  replenished  with  fresh  water,  until  the  proper  specific  gravity, 
as  indicated  by  the  hydrometer,  is  restored. 

The  aquarium  may  be  found  some  morning  with  a  deep  and  per- 
manent green  stain  discoloring  the  water.  This  unsightly  appear- 
ance is  owing  to  the  simultaneous  development  of  the  spores  of 
multitudes  of  minute  Algao  and  ConfervsB,  and  can  be  obviated  by 
passing  the  water  through  a  charcoal  filter. 

When  any  of  the  fishes  give  signs  of  sickness  or  suffocation,  by 
coming  to  the  surface  and  gulping  air,  they  may  be  revived  by 
having  the  water  crated  by  pouring  it  out  repeatedly  from  a  little 
elevation,  or  by  a  syringe. 

The  fishes  are  sometimes  distressed,  also,  when  the  room  gets 
too  warm  for  them.  A  temperature  of  sixty  degrees  is  about  what 
is  required  for  them.  And  they  will  stand  cold,  many  of  them, 
even  to  being  frozen  with  the  water  into  ice,  and  afterwards  revive. 

The  degree  of  light  should  be  carefully  regulated  by  a  stained 
glass  side  or  a  shade.  Yet  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  sunlight 
is  indispensable  to  the  free  evolution  of  oxygen  by  the  plants.  And 
when  the  sun  is  shining  on  the  water,  all  its  occupants  appear  more 
lively,  and  the  fishes  seem  intoxicated — as  they  doubtless  are — ^with 
oxygen. 

A  novice  is  apt  to  overstock  his  aquarium.  Not  more  than  two 
moderate-sized  fishes  to  a  gallon  of  water  is  a  safe  rule.  Care,  too, 
must  be  taken  to  group  together  those  kinds  of  creatures  which  are 
not  natural  enemies,  or  natural  food  for  each  other,  or  a  sad  scene 
of  devastation  and  murder  will  ensue. 

Cleansing  cannot  always  be  entrusted  to  snails.  But  the  sides 
may  be  scrubbed  with  a  soft  swab,  made  of  cotton  or  wick-yarn. 
Deaths  will  occasionally  take  place,  and  even  suicide  is  said  to  be 
resorted  to  by  the  wicked  family  of  Echinodcrms. 

To  procure  specimens  for  the  aquarium  requires  some  knack  and 
knowledge.     The  sea  shore  must  be  haunted,  and  even  the  deep  sea 


L 


602  THE  AQUARIUM. 

explored.  At  the  extreme  low  water  of  new  or  fall-moon  tides  the 
rocks  and  tide-pools  are  to  be  zealously  hunted  over  by  the  aquarian 
naturalist.  Several  wide-mouthed  bottles  and  stone  jars  are  neces- 
sary; and  we  would  repeat,  that  no  plant  should  be  taken  unless  its- 
attachment  is  preserved.  It  is  often  a  long  and  difficult  job  to  get 
some  of  the  Algae  with  their  tender  connections  severed  from  the 
hard  rock,  which  must  be  chopped  away  with  the  chisel,  and  often 
with  the  blows  of  the  hammer  deadened  by  being  struck  under 
water.  It  is  by  lifting  up  the  overhanging  masses  of  slimy  fuci, 
tangles  and  sea-grass,  that  we  find  the  delicate  varieties,  as  the 
Chrombus,  with  its  metallic  lustre,  and  the  red  Algse,  or  the  stony 
Corallina,  which  delights  in  the  obscurity  of  shaded  pools. 

The  seaweeds  will  be  found  to  be  studded  with  Mollusks,  as 
Snails  and  Periwinkles  of  many  queer  varieties. 

Anemones,  of  the  more  common  kinds,  are  found  clinging  to 
smooth  stones,  Crabs,  on  the  sand,  Prawns,  Shrimps,  Medusie,  and 
fishes  of  many  species,  in  the  little  pools  which  the  tide  leaves 
behind,  and  which  it  will  require  a  sharp  eye  and  a  quick  hand  to 
explore  with  success.  But  the  rarer  forms  of  Actini,  as  Star-fishes, 
Sepioles,  Madrepores,  Annelidaa,  and  Zoophytes,  of  a  thousand 
shapes,  live,  on  the  bottom,  in  deep  water,  and  must  be  captured 
there. 

For  this  purpose,  we  must  dredge  from  a  boat,  under  saiL  The 
naturalist's  dredge  is  an  improved  oyster-dredge,  with  each  of  the 
two  long  sides  of  the  mouth  made  into  a  scraping  lip  of  iron.  The 
body  is  made  of  spun  yam  or  fishing-line,  netted  into  a  small  mesh. 
Two  long  triangles  are  attached  by  a  hinge  to  the  two  short  sides 
of  the  frame,  and  meeting  in  front,  at  some  distance  from  the 
mouth,  are  connected  by  a  swivel-joint.  To  this  the  dragging-rope 
is  bent,  which  must  be  three  times  as  long,  in  dredging,  as  the 
depth  of  the  water.  This  is  fastened  to  the  stern  of  the  boat  under 
sail,  and  thus  the  bottom  is  raked  of  all  sorts  of  objects;  among 
which,  on  emptying  the  net,  many  living  creatures  for  the  aquarian 
are   found.     These   may  be  placed  temporarily  in  jars;    though 


THE  AQUARIUM.  503 

plants,  Mollusks,  Cruatacea,  and  Actinise,  may  be  kept  and  trans- 
mitted long  distances  packed  in  layers  of  moist  sea-weed. 

For  all  this  detail,  labor,  and  patient  care  we  may  reasonably 
find  two  great  objects:  first,  the  cultivation  and  advancement  of 
natural  science;  second,  the  purest  delight  and  healthiest  amuse- 
ment. 

In  the  aquarium  we  have  a  most  convenient  field  for  the  study  of 
natural  history;  to  learn  the  varieties,  nature,  names,  habits,  and 
peculiarities  of  those  endless  forms  of  anin^ated  existence  which 
dwell  in  the  hidden  depths  of  the  sea,  and  at  the  same  time  to 
improve  our  minds  by  cultivating  our  powers  of  observation. 

The  pleasure  derived  from  the  aquarium  comes  from  the  excite- 
ment of  finding  and  collecting  specimens,  as  well  as  from  watching 
the  tank  itself.  There  can  be  no  more  pleasant  accompaniment  to 
the  sea-side  walk  of  the  casual  visitor  or  summer  resident  of  a  water- 
ing place,  than  to  search  for  marine  plants  and  animals  among  the 
fissures,  rocks  and  tide-pools  of  the  sea-washed  beach  or  cape. 

Nature  is  always  as  varied  as  beautiful.  Thousands  of  strange 
forms  sport  under  the  shadow  of  the  brown,  waving  sea-weeds,  or 
among  the  scarlet  fronds  of  the  dulse,  which  is  found  growing  in 
the  little  ponds  that  the  inequalities  of  the  beach  have  retained.  It 
is  down  among  the  great  boulders  which  the  Atlantic  piles  upon 
our  coast,  that  we  find  endless  varieties  of  life  to  fill  the  aquarium^ 
though  not  those  more  gorgeous  hues  which  distinguish  the  tenants 
of  the  coral  reefs  on  tropical  shores.  Yet  even  here  nature  is 
absolutely  infinite;  and  we  shall  find  ourselves,  day  after  day, 
imitating  that  botanist  who,  walking  through  the  same  path  for  a 
month  found  always  a  new  plant  which  had  escaped  his  notice 
before.  So,  too,  in  exploring  the  open  sea,  besides  the  pleasure  of 
sailing  along  a  variegated  coast,  with  sun  and  blue  water,  we  have 
the  constant  excitement  of  unexpected  discovery;  for,  as  often  as 
we  pull  up  the  dredge,  some  new  wonder  is  revealed. 

Words  fail  to  describe  the  wonders  of  the  sea.  And  all  that  we 
drag  from  the  bottom,  all  that  we  admire  in  the  aquarium,  are  but 


[ 


604  THE  AQUARIUM. 

a  few  disconnected  specimena  of  that  infinite  whole  which  makes 
up  their  home. 

Soy  toOy  in  watching  the  aqaariam  itself  we  shall  see  endless 
repetitions  of  those  ^'  sea  changes  ^  which  Shakespeare  sang.  An- 
cient mythology  typified  the  changing  wonders  of  aquatic  Nature, 
as  well  as  the  fickleness  of  the  treacherous  sea,  in  those  shifting 
deities/  Glaucus,  Proteus,  who  tenanted  the  shore.  The  one  the 
fancy  of  Ovid  metamorphosed  from  a  restless  man  to  a  fickle  sea 
god;  the  other  assumed  so  many  deceptive  shapes  to  those  who 
visited  his  cave,  that  his  memory  has  heen  preserved  in  the  word 
Protean.  Such  fancies  well  apply  to  a  part  of  Nature  which  shifts 
like  the  sands,  and  ranges  from  the  hideous  Cuttle-fish  and  ravenous 
Shark  to  the  delicate  Medusa,  whose  graceful  form  and  trailing 
tentacles  fioat  among  the  waving  fronds  of  colored  Alg»,  like 

*'  Sabrina  fair. 
Under  the  glassy,  cool,  translucent  wave 
In  twisted  braid  of  lilies  knitting 
The  loose  train  of  her  amber-dripping  hair." 


CHAPTER  XL. 


CARE   OF  CANARIEa 

TUNEFUL,  sweet-voiced  canary  bird  is  one  of  the  choicest 
and  most  delightful  pets  that  a  cultured  lady  can  possess. 
It  is  a  source  of  much  refined  pleasure  and  amusement,  and 
well  repays  the  care  necessary  to  make  it  a  hardy,  happy  and  melo- 
dious member  of  the  household. 

The  following  simple  instructions  in  the  care  of  canaries  will  be 
found  useful  to  all  lovers  of  the  feathered  songsters. 

Choosing  thb  Bibds. 

Don't  be  particular  as  to  color;  brown  or  mottled  birds  often 
prove  the  best  singers.  Avoid  birds  with  red  eyes;  they  are  deli- 
cate and  not  easily  kept  in  song.  Tameness  is  not  a  sign  of  excel* 
lence;  a  bird  that  is  moderately  shy  and  spry  will  be  likely  to  turo 
out  best.  Look  for  melody  and  sweetness  rather  than  shrill,  lou^ 
tones,  if  the  canary  is  intended  for  a  private  house.  Be  sure  tht 
little  fellow^s  legs  and  feet  are  clean  and  perfect — and  when  yoi 
buy  a  bird,  take  it  home  yourself,  and  not  leave  it  for  the  dealep 
to  send.  Thus  you  will  be  sure  to  get  the  one  you  select.  Fa 
singing,  get  a  male  bird.  The  sex  may  be  determined  in  a  broud 
containing  both  male  and  female,  by  comparing  the  birds.  \lie 
male's  plumage  is  brightest  in  color;  his  head  is  larger  and  logger; 
his  body  more  slender;  his  neck  longer;  his  legs  longc/w  and 
«traighter  than  those  of  the  female,  and  the  feathers  alK>ut  hia 
temples  and  eyes  are  brighter  than  elsewhere  upon  his  body. 


606  CAR£  OF  CANARISS. 

Tajono. 

Cany  your  bird  home  carefully  and  gently.  Have  its  cage  ready 
and  famished  with  seed  and  water.  Let  it  step  of  its  own  accord 
out  of  the  temporary  cage  into  its  new  home.  Place  a  light  in 
front  of  the  cage,  and  without  going  too  near  or  seeming  to  watch 
the  birdy  chirp  or  whistle  to  encourage  it.  The  chances  are  that  it 
will  begin  to  sing  at  once.  If  it  sulks  a  little  at  the  start,  so  much 
the  better;  but  if  the  shyness  continues  after  the.  first  day,  catch 
the  bird  and  immerse  it  in  the  water  of  its  bath-tub;  then  leave  it 
to  itself.  In  drying  and  smoothing  its  feathers  it  will  forget  its 
homesickness  and  make  itself  comfortable. 

Cagbs. 

The  wire  bell-shaped  cage  is  best  for  song  birds.  Brass  is  better 
than  painted  wire.  In  addition  to  the  bath-tub  and  seed-cup,  the 
cage  should  have  two  or  three  perches,  of  cane  or  hard  wood, 
made  round  and  smooth.  These  should  be  placed  across  the  cage 
in  such  positions  that  one  will  never  be  exactly  over  another  to 
catch  the  litter.  Keep  the  perches  clean  by  frequent  washmgs 
with  yellow  soap  and  water,  and  never  return  to  the  cage  until 
thoroughly  dry.  At  least  twice  a  week,  the  bottom  of  the  cage 
must  be  taken  off  and  washed,  and  the  bottom  covered  with  fine 
sand  or  gravel.  Be  careful  never  to  use  salt  water  sand.  Never 
hang  the  cage  in  a  draft  of  air  (as  in  an  open  window),  or  in  the 
hot  sun,  without  protecting  the  bird  by  some  sort  of  shelter  on  the 
windy  side  and  at  the  top.  Never  hang  the  cage  out  of  doors  in 
wet  weather.  In  the  winter,  never  leave  the  cage  in  a  room  with- 
out a  fire.     Don't  leave  the  care  of  your  bird  and  cage  to  servants. 

Baths. 

Let  the  water  be  fresh  daily.  Canaries  will  not  bathe  in  stale  or 
dirty  water.  The  bath-tub  should  be  of  such  size  that  it  will  pass 
easily  through  the  cage  door — ^and  it  should  be  removed  as  soon  aa 
the  bird  has  bathed.     If  you  have  a  wire  cage  with  a  bottom  that 


CARE  OP  CANARIES.  507 

hooks  on,  a  good  plan  is  to  fill  the  bath-tub  and  set  it  on  the  floor, 

or  on  an  old  table.     Then  unhook  the  bottom  of  the  cage,  and  place 

the  cage  with  the  bird  in  it  over  the  bath-tub.      The  bird  will  soon 

come  down  from  its  perch  and  use  the  bath — and  when  the  bottom  is 

replaced  the  cage  will  be  perfectly  clean  and  dry.     If  you  put  the 

bath-tub  in  the  cage,  dry  up  all  splashes  of  water  after  the  bird  has 

finished  bathing. 

Food  and  Water.  ' 

Simple  diet  is  better  for  song  birds  than  dainties,  like  cake,  sugar, 
and  other  ^'  goodies."  A  mixture  of  rape  and  canary,  with  a  little 
hemp  seed  (less  of  the  latter  in  summer  than  in  winter).  If  the 
bird  is  young  the  hemp  seed  should  be  cracked  before  using.  In 
summer  the  cage  should  be  supplied  with  green  food,  such  as 
cabbage,  turnip  tops,  chick-weed,  plantain  stems,  celery,  water- 
cress, etc.  In  winter  use  a  little  sweet  apple,  and  occasionally  a 
trifle  of  boiled  carrot  or  cauliflower,  without  salt.  Birds  also  enjoy 
pieces  of  water  cracker  or  pilot  bread  suspended  in  the  cage,  and 
particularly  a  cuttfe-fish  bone,  which  is  useful  to  them  for  the  lime 
it  contains.  The  seed  box  of  the  cage  should  be  filled  at  night,  for 
the  bird's  day  is  from  sunrise  to  sunset  and  he  wants  breakfast 
early,  before  you  are  up  in  the  morning.  Always  see  that  the  cup 
is  well  filled.  Birds  frequently  suffer  intolerably  from  thirst  after 
having  scattered  and  wasted  the  water. 

Breeding  Canaries. 
Breeding  cages  should  be  of  polished  wood  with  one  end  and  one 
side  of  wire.  The  floor  should  be  covered  with  oilcloth  or  stiff 
paper  which  can  be  removed,  cleansed  and  re-sanded  as  required. 
A  small  box  for  nests  so  fastened  that  you  can  take  it  out  at  will 
should  be  placed  near  the  wooden  comer  of  the  cage  about  half 
way  up;  and  material  for  nest,  such  as  soft  moss,  wool,  feathers, 
new  cotton  or  hair,  should  be  attached  loosely  to  the  wires  where 
the  bird  can  get  them.  Canaries  pair  about  the  middle  of  March 
or  April.  Select  a  vigorous,  handsome  pair,  and  having  first  kept 
them  in  separate  cages  within  sight  of  each  other  for  a  few  days^ 


608  CARE  OF  CANARIES. 

pat  them  in  the  cage.  Place  the  cage  in  a  light,  airy  room  with 
•  even  temperature,  and  oat  of  draughts  of  cold  air.  In  case  the  hen 
forsakes  her  nest  after  having  laid  her  full  number  of  eggs  and  begun 
to  sit  on  them,  remove  the  nest  and  put  in  a  fresh  one  and  let  her 
take  a  new  start.  Canaries  usually  lay  from  four  to  six  eggs,  and 
they  sit  for  thirteen  days.  While  the  bird  is  sitting  she  should 
have  plenty  of  food;  and  on  the  day  the  hatching  is  expected,  put 
into  the  cage  a  little  grated  bread  soaked  in  water  and  pressed  dry, 
and  part  of  a  finely-chopped  hard-boiled  egg  should  also  be  put  in 
the  cage.  These  viands  are  for  the  young  birds.  They  should  be 
placed  in  the  cage  at  night  or  early  in  the  morning,  and  great  care 
should  be  taken  to  change  them  often  enough  so  that  they  will  not 
get  sour.  Healthy  young  birds  will  look  red,  and  their  crops  will 
be  full.  If  they  seem  pale  and  emaciated,  it  is  time  to  suspect 
vermin,  and  you  should  change  the  nest  at  once,  smoothing  out  the 
new  one  before  putting  the  infants  into  it  by  rolling  a  hot  hen's 
egg  about  in  it.  When  twelve  days  old  the  young  canaries  begin 
to  get  feathers  of  their  own  and  help  themselves;  and  when  thej 
are  a  month  old  they  may  be  taken  from  the  parent  cage  to  another 
near  at  hand  and  within  sight.  Their  cage  should  never  be  without 
green  food.  Fresh  hard-boiled  eggs  and  grated  bread,  dipped  in 
water  and  pressed,  is  the  best  food  for  them.  Give  them  a  chance 
to  bathe  daily;  sprinkle  them  gently  with  water  from  a  brash  if 
they  refuse  to  get  into  the  tub;  and  let  them  have  as  much  soft 
(not  too  hot)  sunshine  as  possible.  While  in  the  sun  there  should 
always  be  a  shady  nook  in  the  cage — a  leafy  branch  or  two,  making 
a  trembling  shadow,  is  the  best.  If  possible,  let  them  have  plenty 
of  green  food,  and  some  insects,  ants'  eggs,  etc.  When  the  young 
birds  are  two  weeks  old,  their  parents  often  begin  to  get  ready  to 
prepare  for  the  next  brood;  and  if  indications  of  such  a  state  of 
things  are  seen,  a  new  nest  box  and  materials  should  be  put  in  the 
breeding  cage.  The  male  will  take  care  of  the  young  birds  while 
the  mother  busies  herself  with  preparations  for  an  increase  of 
family. 


CHAPTER  XU. 


PLORICULTUBE. 

N  large  towns  and  cities,  the  houses  of  the  upper  classes  hare 
almost  invariably  their  windows  and  areas  tastefully  decorated 
with  plants  and  flowers.  The  floral  profusion  which  adorns 
the  windows  and  balconies  of  the  wealthy,  is  generally  purchased 
at  large  expense,  and  to  obtain  a  similar  result  by  the  same  means, 
would  be  impossible  for  those  whose  incomes  are  limited.  But  this 
is  no  reason  why  not  only  the  windows,  but  also  the  back  yards 
and  confined  localities  about  the  houses  of  the  lower,  middle,  and 
working  classes,  should  be  debarred  from  the  inexpensive  adorn- 
ment of  living  and  refreshing  foliage,  such  ad  is  to  be  produced  by 
climbing  and  creeping  plants. 

An  inobtrusive  little  house,  placed  in  the  most  uninviting  situ- 
ation, with  narrow  street;  and  city  dust,  may  be  rendered  pretty  and 
attractive,  and  shielded  from  the  scorching  rays  of  the  mid-summer 
sun,  with  pretty  vines — ^morning  glories,  scarlet  runners,  honey- 
suckle, woodbine,  and  climbing  roses;  these  can  be  trained  around 
the  windows,  over  the  doors,  and  against  the  walls. 

"I  have  seen,"  says  Dickens,  "a  small  house,  in  a  dusty  street, 
with  a  bit  of  garden  in  front;  over  its  windows  and  doors  pretty 
vines  climbed;  crimson  carnations,  bright  roses,  and  honeysuckles, 
lighted  up  the  dark,  sad  cloud  of  poverty  that  hung  about  the  place. 
Though  they  were  of  no  economical  value  as  food,  drink,  or  cloth- 
ing, they  gladdened  the  minds  of  the  laborers  who  passed  to  and 
from  their  work  morning  and  night." 

fi09 


010  PLORICULTIJRE. 

Trxllised  Windows. 
OrniuDeDtal  climbiiig  and  creeping  plants  should  be  employed  to 
■ome  extent  in  all  kinds  of  gardening,  as  they  fumieh  an  element 
of  grace  differing  widely  from,  and  not  attainable  by,  plants  of  ft 
oompact  and  self-supporting  habit.    Unquestionably  most  of  these 
plants  never  appear  to  such 
advantage  as  when   associ- 
ated with  rustio  architecture, 
ruins — natural   or  artificial, 
— or  a  portion  of  a  garden 
broken   up   into   banks  and 
dells,  with  rock-work  intro- 
duced as  a  characteristic  fea- 
ture.    Thus  employed,  and 
allowed  to  ramble  unrestrain- 
edly, they,  in  a  few  years, 
attain    the    appearance    of 
free,  natural  grace  that  most 
be  appreciated  by  all  lovera 
I  of  the  beauties  of  nature^ 
^  Nevertheless,  there  are  very 
few  of  them  which  may  not 
be  used  in  the  trimmest  and  most  artificial  of  gardens,  with  good 
and  in  many  cases,  charming  effect. 

The  climbers  most  adapted  for  a  trelliaed  window,  such  as  quick- 
growing  ivies,  morning-glories  (convalonlns  major),  tall  or  running 
nasturtium,  canary  creeper,  colxea  scandens,  etc,  are  annnals,  or 
must  be  treated  as  such  for  employment  out  of  doors — that  is,  they 
most  be  raised  from  seed  annually;  and  the  best  way  to  secure  an 
early,  abunduit,  and  continuous  display  of  bloom,  is  to  sow  them 
m  pots  of  nice  soil  in  February  or  the  beginning  of  March,  giving 
them  a  warm  position,  and  as  soon  as  large  enough  put  them  singly 
into  five-inch  pots;  they  will  then  be  strong  enough  for  planting 


FLORICULTURE.  611 

out  in  May.  When  there  is  not  the  convenience  for  doing  this, 
they  may  be  sown  ont  of  doors,  from  the  middle  to  the  end  of 
April,  according  to  the  weather.  They  all  want  a  nice  light  soil  to 
start  in  when  planted  out  or  sown,  and  should  have  sunny  positions 
and  may*  be  employed  wherever  floriferous  climbing  plants  are 
desired. 

The  illustration,  Fig.  1,  on  page  510,  shows  how,  with  a  few 
simple  appliances,  a  window  may  be  at  the  same  time  sheltered 
from  the  sun  and  rendered  pretty;  A,  is  a  frame  work  of  a  few 
laths  nailed  together,  which,  by  means  of  rings  or  staples  at  its  two 
upper  comers,  may  be  hung  upon  hooks,  driven  into  the  wall, 
during  the  summer,  and  removed  during  the  winter.  Its  projection 
should  be  from  eighteen  inches  to  two  feet.  Two  or  more  brackets, 
B  B,  are  fastened  on  either  side  of  the  window  sill  to  receive  flower 
pots  or  boxes,  and  between  these  and  the  frame-work,  nails  are 
driven  into  the  wall  so  that  copper  wire  can  be  fastened  upon  them 
to  form  a  kind  of  lozenge-shape  trellis- work.  The  brackets,  wires, 
and  frame  work  should  all  be  painted  green,  and  a  further  improve* 
ment  can  be  made  by  carrying  the  wires,  as  at  C,  from  the  top  of 
the  frame  work  to  a  hook  driven  into  the  wall  above.  This  arrange- 
ment  can  also  be  adapted  to  a  doorway. 

Make  the  boxes  six  or  seven  inches  deep,  the  length  and  width  of 
which  should  fit  the  brackets,  and  should  be  at  least  twenty  inches 
wide.  There  are  many  ways  of  decorating  the  outside  of  boxes, 
and  we  will  give  a  few  that  are  most  generally  used,  by  way  of 
suggestion.  Some  are  painted  in  patterns  to  imitate  tiles.  Some 
are  covered  with  oilcloth  in  small  checked  and  very  bright  colored 
patterns.  Others  may  be  covered  with  wall  paper,  in  palm  trees  and 
tropical  designs,  with  the  orthodox  stork,  which  seems  to  be  a 
general  favorite  in  the  decorative  category.  The  paper  may  be 
pasted  or  glued  on  the  box,  or,  if  preferred,  tacked  on  neatly  with 
a  narrow  bordering  put  around  the  top,  sides  and  bottom.  Others 
are  made  of  rustic  work,  the  interstices  being  covered  with  a  mix- 
ture of  acorns,  cones,  and  ground  shells.     Cut  the  acorns  lengthwise 


612  FLORICULTURR 

and  cover  the  parts  to  be  ornamented  with  thick  furniture  Tambh^ 
gluC)  or  putty,  lay  the  acorns  flat  side  down  in  any  design  that 
fancy  may  suggest,  tlien  scatter  some  cherry  pits  between,  and  sift 
the  powdered  shell  oyer  all. 

Boxes  for  stone  or  gray  houses  look  well  made  in  imitation  of 
stone  fences.  The  half  shells  of  horse  chestnuts,  and  whole  hick- 
ory-nuts glued  on  the  box  in  thin,  straight  rows,  one  near  the  top, 
one  in  the  center,  and  one  near  the  bottom  also  look  welL  Fasten 
the  tendrils  of  the  common  woodbine  in  a  close  zigzag;  this  repre- 
sents a  vine;  then  give  the  whole  a  coat  of  common  varnish,  and 
sift  the  sand  over  alL  A  box  made  in  this  way  looks  very  pretty, 
and  stands  the  weather  well. 

Another  method  of  making  boxes,  is  to  stain  the  box,  and  put 
around  the  top  and  bottom  a  bordering  of  wall  paper,  or  a  small* 
wall-paper  bordering,  to  imitate  any  kinds  of  wood  preferred. 
Give  this  several  coats  of  varnish  and  it  will  stand  the  most  severe 
weather. 

Pretty  and  durable  boxes  may  be  made  by  splitting  small  twigs,, 
about  an  inch  thick,  in  two,  and  fastening  them  on  the  box  with 
small  tacks,  in  perpendicular  strips.  If  tbe  strips  are  rough  and 
knotty  they  will  look  more  rustic  and  much  prettier.  A  grape,  or 
any  kind  of  a  trailing  vine,  can  be  split  in  halves,  and  tacked  over 
these  strips  in  irregular  shape,  in  imitation  cf  a  natural  growing^ 
vine. 

Leaves,  berries,  and'all  kinds  of  shapes  that  fancy  may  suggest, 
can  be  made  out  of  soft  patty,  into  which  any  colors  of  paints  may 
be  mixed  to  imitate  the  desired  shades.  Spread  the  putty  out  inta 
a  thick  sheet,  and  take  a  natural  leaf  of  the  species  to  be  imitated 
for  a  pattern.  Lay  the  veined  or  under  surface  of  the  leaf  on  the 
putty,  pressing  it  down  with  the  fingers  to  get  the  impression;  then 
take  the  leaf  off,  and  indent  the  markings  deeper  in  the  putty, 
cut  the  leaf  out  with  a  sharp  pen-knife,  and  make  the  stems  and 
tendrils  of  putty  by  rolling  between  the  palms  of  the  hands.  Fasten 
the  putty  leaves,  stems,  and  tendrils  on  the  vine  with  small  gimp- 


FLORICULTURE.  613 

tacks.  When  the  putty  dries  it  will  be  as  hard  and  durable  as 
wood,  and  may  then  receive  a  coat  or  two  of  thick  varnish.  These 
boxes  are  meant  for  out-door  use,  and  may  be  lined  with  either 
zinc  or  tin,  if  desired;  if  not,  a  coat  of  paint  is  indispensable. 

Put  a  thick  layer  of  broken  rock,  in  the  bottom  of  the  box  for 
drainage;  over  this  put  a  layer  of  broken  bones  mixed  with  minced 
leather;  then  fill  the  box  with  light  soil,  and  set  the  plants  in  at 
two  or  three  inches  apart,  according  to  the  density  of  the  foliage  of 
the  plants. 

Morning-glories,  climbing-roses,  Madeira  vine,  toboea  scandens, 
common  woodbine,  tall  nasturtium,  and  such  densely  foliaged  and 
full-flowering  climbers  require  more  space  in  planting  than  climbers 
that  have  scantier  foliage,  such  as  the  cypress  vine,  canary  creeper, 
etc. 

The  morning-glory  has  full  foliage,  showy,  bell-shaped  flowers  of 
various  bright  colors,  is  easy  of  culture,  and  suitable  for  covering 
arbors,  trellises,  old  stumps,  trees,  etc.  It  is  so  perfectly  hardy  as 
to  grow  in  almost  any  soil,  and  without  care  will  soon  cover  the 
most  unsightly  places  if  support  be  given  to  the  vines.  The  finest  of 
noisette,  or  climbing  monthlies,  are  the  Marshal  Neil,  of  yellow,  fine 
foi*m,  and  noted  for  its  exquisite  fragrance;  James  Sprunt,  a  fine 
bright  crimson,  valuable  as  a  pillar  rose;  La  Marque,  Gen.  Wash- 
ington, Caroline  Manais,  Glorie  d'Dijon  woodland  sprite;  these  and 
many  more  belong  to  the  family  of  climbers.  They  are  well 
adapted  for  verandas,  balconies,  trellises,  and  walls.  They  thrive 
well  in  almost  any  out-door  situation.  They  require  a  rich  soil,  two 
parts  yellow  loam,  old  field  compost,  leaf -mould,  and  sand  in  equal 
parts. 

The  cobaca  scandeus  is  a  fine,  rapid-;growing  climber,  with  hand- 
some foliage,  and  large,  bell-shaped  flowers,  green  at  first,  but 
rapidly  changing  to  a  beautiful,  deep,  violet  blue.  Seeds  should  be 
started  in  clean  pots,  and  in  rather  dry  light  soil,  as  they  are  rather 
apt  to  rot  in  open  ground.  It  makes  a  beautiful  drapery  for  a  trel* 
lised  window. 


1514  PLORICDLTURa. 

The  tall  naBtartiam  is  caltivated.  both  for  nse  uid  omuheBt. 
Its  richly  colored  orange  bloseoniB  serve  as  a  garnUh  for  dish^  ^M 
yonng  leaves  are  excellent  for  salad,  and  the  green  seed-pods,  pre- 
served in  vinegar,  make  a  pickle  greatly  esteemed  by  many.  It  is 
admirably  adapted  for  a  window  or  conservatory  in  winter,  is  a 
very  rapid  grower,  and  strikes  freely  from  cattings,  but  seeds 
sparingly.  The  flowers  are  large,  trumpet-shaped,  and  in  some 
species,  are  very  brilliant  and  of  many  shades,  from  scarlet  to  black. 
It  is  a  magnificent  climber,  running  up  to  twenty  or  more  feet  high. 
Its  chief  glory  ia  in  covering  arbors,  trellis,  and  rustic  work. 

Canary  vine  is  a  beautiful  climber,  with  its  charming  little  canary- 
oolored  blossoms  bearing  a  fancied  resemblance  to  a  bird  with  its 
wings  flopped.     The  plant 
has  a  fine,  luznriant,  ram- 
bling character,  and  is  well 
adapted  for  window  or  door 
trellis.     It  will  mn  twenty 
feet  high,  and  blossom  from 
Jnly  till  bard  frost  comes. 
The    cypress    vine   is   a 
most  beautiful  and  fragile 
looking  climber,  with  deli- 
cate, dark   green    feathery 
foliage,  and  an  abundance 
of  bright  Btar^haped,  rose, 
scarlet,    and    white     blos- 
soms, which,  in  the  bright 
sunshine,    present  a   mass 
of  beauty.     It  is  particularly  for  trelliaed  windows,  doors,  and 
verandas,  aocl,  if  truned  properly,  there  is  no  vine  prettier. 

AbBOBB  AMD   R0CKERIB8. 

In  Fig.  3,  on  page  616,  we  see  a  small  temporary  arbor  made 
with  pots  of  climbing  plants,  placed  at  a  little  distance  apart,  but 


FL0RICULTU8E.  515 

may,  if  desired  be  brought  closer  together,  or  there  may  be  two 
rows  of  them,  so  as  to  form  a  close  wall  of  foliage.  The  construc- 
tion is  very  simple.  A  piece  of  wood  is  placed  across  the  yard 
.from  wall  to  wall,  and  from  the  centre  of  this  a  hoop  is  suspended 
by  copper  wire  or  strong  cord  (but  the  wire  is  preferred);  from  the 
hoop  the  wires  radiate  downward  and  outward  to  a  circle  of  pots 
placed  upon  the  ground  and  containing  the  climbers.  It  will  be 
seen  that  the  whole  of  the  materials  required  will  tjost  the  merest 

trifle. 

A  dmall  yard  may  also,  if  desired,  be  roofed  in  during  the  sum- 
mer time  by  wires  drawn  across  the  top  and  overrun  with  creepers. 
Arcades  and  arbors  of  different  forn^i  may  be  made  in  the  same 
manner,  the  materials  costing  but  little.  The  chief  outlay  required 
is  only  a  little  agreeable  labor.  Temporary  arbors  are  only  used  in 
ornamenting  small  gardens.  A  very  effective  ornament  for  a 
limited  space  is  the  skeleton  of  an  old  umbrella,  its  handle  length- 
ened to  a  desired  height,  and  placed  in  the  centre  of  a  circle  of  pots 
•containing  climbers.  The  vines  will  twist  in  and  out  through  the 
frame  in  a  graceful  profusion  of  leaves  and  blossoms.  The  cypress 
vine,  canary-bird  flower,  sweet-pea,  nasturtium,  and  the  morning- 
glory  in  its  many  gorgeous  hues,  are  well  adapted  to  this  garden 
ornament.  Partially  decayed  tree-stumps,  small  barrels,  and  rustic 
chairs,  look  exceedingly  pretty  when  mantled  with  some  bright 
flowering  members  of  the  creeping  family. 

Th«  rustic  wall  pockist  is  a  late  innovation  to  the  garden,  and  is 
a  charming  acquisition,  with  its  flowing  grasses,  trailing  vines,  and 
showy  flowers,  when  placed  against  some  grand  old  forest  tree;  but 
as  these  are  rarely  to  be  met  with  in  a  small  garden,  it  looks  very 
pretty  with  a  pillar  support. 

The  pocket  may  be  lined  with  green  mosses,  and  filled  with  light 
soil  and  leaf -mold,  petunias,  oxalis,  fuchsias,  geraniums,  and  plants 
that  harmonize  in  color  and  foliage,  with  a  bordering  of  smilaz, 
arbutus,   fine-leaf  ivies,   vinca ;    any   of   the    trailers    are    appro- 


816  FW>RICULTXniE. 

priate,  and  a  generous  sprinkliug  of  woodland  ferns   makes  it  "• 
thing  of  beauty  and  a  joy  forever." 

For  t.-ellised  arbors  the  Clematis  is  very  desirable,  and  is  a  gena» 
that  furnishes  many  species  and  varieties.  It  has  the  advanUge, 
besides  many  other  attractive  qualities,  of  blooming  late  in  summer 
when  other  flowering  vines  are  generally  past  their  bloom.  It  holds 
a  foremost  place  among  the  family  of  climbere,  for  it  hardiness, 
easy  culture,  and  adaptability  to  any  fqrm  of  training,  and  for  the- 


gorgeous  richness  of  coloring  of  the  flowers  of  many  of  the  varietiesr 
ranging  from  pure  white  to  the  most  intense  blue,  and  varioas 
shades  of  purple.  They  all  like  a  moderately  rich  soil,  which 
should  be  aided  by  a  top-drcsstng  of  manure  annually,  and  applied 
in  spring,  when  the  growth  commences;  they  should  have  an  open, 
sunny  position,  and  when  so  placed  that  they  may  be  allowed  to 
ramble  about  freely,  require  no  pruning  or  other  attention.  When 
used  for  the  decoration  of  arches,  pillars,  trellis  fans,  or  arbors,  or 


FLORICULTURE  617 

for  any  purpose  where  order  and  neatness  are  required,  it  is 
necessary  to  cut  out  all  the  dead  wood  early  in  spring,  and  as  the 
young  growth  progresses,  to  tie  it  into  positions  until  it  has  covered 
its  allotted  space;  but  too  hard  tying  should  not  be  practiced,  as 
it  detracts  from  the  natural  grace  of  the  plant.  The  following  are 
among  the  best  for  general  uses:  Jackmaniiy  noted  for  its  gorgeous 
purple  flowers.  Pitcheriy  for  its  elegant  habits,  neat  foliage  and 
exceedingly  pretty  bright  red  blossoms.  Virginana  (virgin's  bower) 
for  its  rapid  climbing,  and  white  blossoms,  growing  twenty  feet  in 
one  season,  hardy,  dying  down  in  winter,  but  starting  up  again  in 
spring;  it  is  equally  remarkable  when  in  fruit,  the  long  feathery 
tails  of  the  fruit  separating  like  long  tufts  of  wool.  VerticeUata  is 
noted  for  its  charming  blue  flowers,  lasting  from  June  to  Septem- 
ber. Flammiday  a  luxuriant  climber  with  clusters  of  small,  white 
flowers  of  most  delightful  fragrance;  it  is  sometimes  known  as 
sweet  virgin's  bower. 

The  next  in  the  march  of  magnificent  climbers  is  the  Wistaria 
sinensis.  Its  growth  is  somewhat  slow  until  it  gets  well  established 
in  good  rich  soil.  It  will  then  grow  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five 
feet  in  a  season.  This  elegant  vine  is  considered  almost  perfect  as 
a  climber,  its  rich  grape-like  clusters  of  light-blue,  purple,  and  pale 
cerulean  flowers  appearing  profusely  in  spring,  and  sometimes 
during  the  summer  and  autumn,  its  graceful  foliage  retaining  a 
light,  beautiful  green  till  pinched  by  frost.  Thrives  best  if  in  a 
south  situation. 

The  Japanese  honeysuckle  is  a  pretty  evergreen  climber,  the 
leaves  being  beautifully  veined  with  gold;  of  no  value  for  its 
flowers,  but  may  be  used  in  any  form  or  position.  Pegged  down  in 
a  line  it  makes  a  pretty  permanent  edging  for  a  flower-bed  or 
around  the  base  of  an  arbor,  and,  if  allowed  to  grow  unchecked,  will 
quickly  cover  a  large  space.  Its  foliage  shades  beautifully  among 
other  creepers. 

Magnolia  grandiflora^  an  elegant  evergreen  arbor  plant,  with 
iarge  laurel-like  leaves  of  a  leathery  texture  and  waxy  look,  their 


618  FLORICULTURE. 

under  sarface  being  brown,  and  upper  surface  a  gloBsy  light  green, 
producing  freely  its  magnificent  clusters  of  creamy  white  blossoms 
of  the  sweetest  fragrance.  Should  have  a  sunny  situation,  and  light 
rich  soil. 

The  Virginia  creeper  is  a  rapid  growing,  diciduous  vine,  clinging 
firmly  by  its  tendrils  to  any  support;  it  requires  no  nailing  or  tying 
and  will  cover  the  whole  face  of  a  house  in  a  few  years,  and  will 
outgrow  in  time  every  support  that  can  be  provided  for  it,  climbing 
to  the  house-tops,  running  along  the  eaves  and  over  the  chimney- 
tops  and  finally  wreathing  itself  heavenward  in  the  most  prodigal 
profusions.  This  vine  is  often  called  the  American  ivy,  and  is 
much  admired  for  the  luxuriant  foliage  of  its  rich  green  sunmier 
mantle,  and  the  gorgeous  scarlet  and  crimson  of  its  autumn  robe. 

That  '^  Rare  old  plant,  the  Ivy  Green,"  as  a  permanent  evergreen 
climber,  must  be  first,  for,  "  Creeping  where  no  eye  is  seen,"  in 
sunshine  or  shade,  in  strong  rich  soil,  or  in  poor  stony  gravel,  it 
will  put  up  with  almost  any  ill-treatment,  and  positively  thrives 
best  when  neglected.  Of  course,  if  it  b  required  to  put  on  ha 
orderly  appearance,  such  as  when  clothing  the  face  of  a  dwelling- 
house,  covering  summer-houses,  arbors,  and  fences,  some  attention 
must  be  given  to  it,  particularly  to  the  large-leaved  varieties;  for,  if 
allowed  to  grow  unchecked  to  any  great  height  on  a  vertical  face, 
the  loose,  overhanging  branches  form  a  receptable  for  snow  in 
winter,  the  weight  of  which  will  tear  down  great  breadths  of  it. 
In  such  positions  ivy  should  never  be  nailed  to  the  wall  after  the 
first  season,  if  it  can  anyhow  be  avoided;  it  will  be  a  saving  of 
time  in  the  end  to  wait  till  the  ivy  clings  naturally  to  the  wall.  To 
this  end  all  loose  branches  should  be  cut  off  about  the  end  of  April 
or  the  first  week  in  May,  and  it  is  at  this  time  that  walls  that  are 
already  covered  require  annual  attention.  The  whole  face  of  the 
ivy  should  then  be  gone  over  with  a  pair  of  shears,  cutting  off  all 
loose  branches,  and  the  greater  portion  of  the  {oli2ige  of  the  large- 
leaved  kinds.  As  this  is  the  time  when  the  plant  is  on  the  point  of 
breaking  into  its  new  growth,  its  denuded  appearance  will  only  last 


•^ 


FLOmCULTURBL  519: 

aboat  a  fortnight,  when  the  whole  surface  of  the  wall  will  be  again 
oovered  with  a  surface  of  fresh  green  leaves,  and  all  branches 
formed  near  any  uncovered  portions  of  the  wall,  from  the  vigor 
induced  by  pruning,  at  once  firmly  cling  to  it.  This  annual  prun- 
ing will  c$»se  the  wall  to  be  covered  by  a  felt-like  growth  of 
branches,  firmly  attached,  so  that  no  violence  of  wind  or  weather 
will  diaturb  it. 

The  best  quick-growing  variety  to  cover  a  wall  is  the  common 
Irish  {hedera  hibemica)^  a  large-leaved  kind.  Another  kind,  suit- 
able for  the  same  purpose  is  the  hedera  ermgnerian;  it  does  not 
make  such  a  close,  compact  growth,  but  possesses  fine,  large,  leathery 
foliage,  quite  distinct.  The  English  ivy  {Jiedera  helix)  is  a  small- 
leaved,  close,  compact-growing  kind,  having  a  very  neat  appear- 
ance, but  of  much  slower  growth.  This  is  about  the  best  green- 
leaved  variety  for  covering  banks  or  rock-work,  for  which  purpose 
the  small-leaved  varieties  should  always  have  the  preference. 
fSedera  helix  aurea  mcumkUay  hedera  eUgantiesima^  Jiedera  japonica 
argentea^  are  varieties  with  variegated  leaves  suitable  for  rock- work, 
or  covering  dwarf  walls,  but  all  the  variegates  are  of  much  slower 
growth,  and  the  markings  are  much  better  developed  when  in  an 
open  position.  There  are  many  other  varieties,  but  those  named 
are  of  the  freest  habita. 

ROOKBBIBS. 

A  rockery,  if  well  constructed  and  placed  in  a  proper  position, 
should  look  like  a  charming  bit  of  Nature's  architecture.  If  the 
grounds  are  large  this  can  be  carried  out  to  better  advantage.  A 
secluded  nook  should  be  selected,  and  the  rockery  constructed  in 
the  form  of  a  terrace,  with  an  opening  at  one  end  made  purposely 
for  ferns,  A  due  regard  should  be  given  for  good-sized  crevices 
and  pockets  for  the  disposition  of  plants.  Very  pretty  rockeries 
may  be  arranged  against  rustic  walls  to  represent  old  ruins.  The 
larger  rocks,  as  a  general  thing,  should  be  placed  at  the  base,  but 
an  occasional  large  and  angular  stone  may  project  here  and  ther6 


620  FLORICULTURE. 

with  good  effect  for  some  vagrant  creeper  to  hang  from.  A  mas- 
sive piece  of  blue  granite  makes  a  good  finish  at  the  top  for  the 
support  of  some  climber,  the  preference  of  which  is  invariably 
given  to  the  American  ivy. 

A  large  rockery  looks  out  of  place  in  a  limited  space.  For  a 
small  garden  a  pretty  arrangement  of  rocks  can  be  constructed 
with  very  good  effect  around  an  old  stump. 

The  pockets  should  be  filled  with  leaf  mold,  rich,  light  soils^ 
sandy  loam,  and  soils  adapted,  to  the  different  species  of  plants 
which  are  intended  to  be  grown  in  them. 

In  planting  the  rockery,  all  plants  but  low-growing,  lithe  and 
graceful  ones,  should  be  avoided.  Plants  that  are  stiff  or  woody 
are  not  desirable.  Some  simple  wild  things  are  more  generally 
adapted  to  this  style  of  cultivation. 

Wood  ferns,  squaw-berry  vine,  with  its  waxy  red  berries,  trailing 
arbutus,  robin-run-the-hedge,  money-wort,  old  English  ivy,  Vir- 
ginia creeper,  with  its  gorgeous  autumn  tints,  and  the  Alpine 
plants,  are  especially  adapted  for  such  purposes.  They  require 
light,  sandy  loam  and  peat,  with  abundant  drainage.  With  this 
foundation  of  creepers  laid  it  can  then  be  embellished  with  delicate 
bloomers.  The  modest  violet,  lily  of  the  valley,  and  the  faithful 
forget-me-not,  are  worthy  of  the  quiet  nook.  The  dianthus,  alpinns, 
sazifraga,  sedum,  and  a  host  of  others,  are  worthy  of  a  place.  The 
maiden-hair  fern  is  an  exquisite  plant  for  the  rockery,  and  a  min- 
gling of  wild  and  cultivated  ferns  make  a  charming  group,  in  con- 
nection with  clusters  of  wild  pansies.  If  the  situation  is  cool  and 
damp  all  these  plants  will  thrive  admirably. 

Indoob  Oabdbns. 
The  boxes  for  indoor  gardens  are  ornamented  in  all  styles  of  art 
decorations — from  characters  that  have  figured  on  and  off  since  the 
days  of  heathen  mythology,  to  the  present  aesthetic  designs  of  the 
renowned  sunflower  and  lily.  Slap  on  anything  or  everything  and 
it  is  sure  to  be  in  vggue.  We  give  a  design  in  leaf  work,  which  we 
think  quite  unique. 


'  I 


FLORICULTURE.  621 

The  art  of  decorating  cabinets,  boxes,  and  many  other  wooden 
articles,  with  pressed  and  dried  leaves  is  very  old,  and,  like  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  has  slept  for  many  years,  but  has  lately  waked  up. 

The  effect  produced  by  leaf  decoration  is  always  pretty  and 
pleasing,  and  the  process  generally  simple  and  easy. 

It  consists  in  arranging  and  fastening  dried  leaves  to  the  face  of 
the  woodwork  in  such  patterns  and  borders  as  fancy  maj-  suggest. 
These,  when  varnished  over,  are  permanent,  and  when  arranged 
with  judgment  and  good  taste  are  vejy  effective. 

The  fittest  woods  for  decoration  are  simple  deal  or  pine,  stained 
black;  pine  is  best,  as  being  most  even  in  its  grain,  and  as  being 
susceptible  of  receiving  the  finest  stain. 

The  best  method  of  staining  the  wood  black,  so  as  to  give  it  a  close 
resemblance  to  ebony,  is  with  a  decoction  of  logwood  and  iron  dis- 
solved in  vinegar.  The  leaves  best  suited  to  this  purpose  are  those 
which  are  symmetrical  in  form,  and  which  are  most  pleasing  in  out- 
line.  Deeply  serrated  leaves  are  better  than  those  which  more 
nearly  approach  a  plain*  oval.  Very  large  leaves  should  be  avoided^ 
and  even  those  of  medium-size  should  be  used  sparingly;  in  decor- 
ating a  folding-screen  or  similar  wide  surface,  they  may  look  well, 
but  generally,  and  always  for  small  articles,  leaves  of  a  small  size 
look  best  and  most  readily  combine  into  shapes  and  patterns.  The 
selection  of  the  kind  of  leaves  to  be  employed  is,  however,  rather  a 
matter  of  individual  taste.  Many,  though  not  all,  should  be  gath- 
ered in  the  autumn,  when  deep  red  and  golden  hues  prevail,  for  the 
bright  greens  of  spring  and  summer  cannot  be  preserved,  and  the 
leaves  gathered  at  those  seasons  will  fade  to  a  pale  brown  tint,  not 
unpleasing  in  itself,  but  still  needing  to  be  enriched  with  deeper 
and  warmer  tones.  The  leaves  selected  should  be  free  from  any 
fracture  and  perfectly  dry;  they  should  then  be  laid  between  sheets 
of  blotting  paper,  and  placed  under  some  heavy  weight  for  drying 
— ^heavy  books  answer  the  purpose;  but  they  should  never  be  laid 
between  the  pages  of  a  good  book,  as  the  moisturcf  from  the  leaves 
is  sure  to  destroy  the  parts,  and  the  bindings  will  be  strained  and 


623  FLORICULTURE. 

forced  out  of  place.     Blotting  paper,  on  account  of  its  porons  and. 
absorbent  nature,  should  always  be  used  for  drying. 

It  is  well  that  a  considerable  number  of  leaves  should  be  pressed, 
before  beginning  to  fasten  them  to  the  wood,  that  there  may  be  a 
good  variety  to  select  from,  and  by  spreading  on  the  table  a  sheet 
of  paper  as  large  as  the  surface  to  be  decorated,  and  arranging  the 
leaves  upon  it,  it  is  easy  to  alter  their  positions  till  a  pleasing 
pattern  is  produced.  When  the  eye  is  quite  satisfied  with  the 
arrangement,  they  may  be  taken  up  one  by  one,  the  back  brushed 
over  with  a  soft  camel's  hair  brush  dipped  in  gum  arable,  and  the 
leaf  transferred  to  the  same  relative  position  on  the  box  to  be 
decorated;  then  it  can  be  pressed  down  and  any  superfluous  gum 
absorbed  by  a  pad  of  blotting  paper.  The  leaves,  it  must  be 
remembered,  are  fragile,  and  require  careful  handling.  After  the 
whole  of  the  leaves  composing  the  pattern  have  been  neatly  and 
ftecurely  fastened  on,  and  the  gum  has  become  dry,  a  coat  of  copal 
varnish  must  be  laid  with  a  soft  camel-hair  brush  lightly  over  th& 
surface  and  the  work  will  be  complete.  This  makes  a  charming^ 
flower-box,  if  the  work  is  done  artistically. 

The  box  should  then  be  set  on  rollers  and  lined  with  zinc.  A 
thick  layer  of  broken  rock  and  some  charcoal  for  drainage  should 
go  in  first.  Then  fill  with  a  rich,  light  loam  to  within  half  an  inch, 
of  the  top,  and  set  the  plants  in  it. 

A  window  with  a  south  situation  has  the  best  advantage,  and  the 
next  best  is  a  west  or  east  window.  Before  the  plants  are  set  in,  it 
should  be  well  secured  against  frost. 

Plants  should  have  more  heat  during  the  day  than  at  nighty  from* 
twelve  to  fifteen  degrees  being  the  difference  in  temperature;  but 
authorities  differ  on  this  point,  some  maintaining  that  ten  or  twelve 
degrees  is  the  proper  difference.  If  plants  arc  in  a  room  where  the 
heat  is  entirely  shut  off  at  night,  and  are  in  danger  of  freezing, 
they  may  be  protected  by  covering  them  with  thick  paper,  or  s<»ne 
light  woollen  fabric. 


PLORICULTURISL  623 

Plants  should  be  well  secured  against  cold  draughts,  as  thig 
invariably  is  a  fatal  injury  to  them.  Frozen  plants,  as  soon  as 
discovered,  should  have  cold  water  poured  on  them,  wetting  every 
leaf  thoroughly;  they  will  soon  be  coated  with  ice,  and  in  this 
state  put  them  in  a  moderately  cool  place  and  cover  with  a  news- 
paper. They  should  be  left  in  this  situation  for  several  days,  till 
they  regain  their  normal  condition. 

Different  species  of  plants  to  thrive  well  must  have  situations 
suited  to  their  various  habits;  but  they  should  all  have  the  morning 
sun  if  possible,  as  plants  so  exposed  are  more  vigorous  of  growth  and 
richer  in  bloom.  "All  the  exposures  for  plants  that  vary  from  the 
east  to  the  west,  and  even  a  little  to  the  northwest,  may  be  included 
as  available  for  window  culture.  The  east  and  south,  with  the 
exposures  between  them,  are  of  course  the  best,  but  western  win- 
dows and  those  even  somewhat  to  the  northwest  have  been  used 
with  much  success.  A  northern  window  is  useful  chiefly  for  ferns, 
eolens,  some  fuchsias,  and  to  winter  shade-loving  plants.'' 

In  western  windows,  with  stove  heat,  may  be  grown  such  plants 
as  fuchsias,  cacti,  wax  plant,  calla,  geraniums,  heliotrope,  Chinese 
primrose,  periwinkle,  pansies,  tulip,  hyacinth,  lilium,  rose-geranium, 
pinks,  German  ivy,  ameranthus,  eta 

From  a  southern  to  an  eastern  exposure  may  be  grown:  monthly 
roses,  iris,  calla,  oxalis  rosea,  hyacinths,  cyclamens,  azalea,  ciner- 
aria, auratum,  daphne,  Chinese  primrose,  heliotrope,  jessamine,  etc., 
but  some  of  those  plants  will  flourish  and  bloom  in  any  of  those 
exposures.  Moisture  is  one  of  the  most  essential  elements  in  house 
culture;  plants  can  be  kept  moist  \ty  setting  vessels  containing 
steaming  soap-suds  near  them,  two  or  three  times  a  week,  and  is 
very  efficacious  in  destroying  parasites. 

Watering  the  plants  is  another  operation  of  much  importance, 
and  one  that  requires  some  judgment,  as  some  plants  require  much 
more  water  than  others.  Plants  of  an  aquatic  habit  require  more 
and  more  frequent  watering  than  the  Alpine  family  of  plants,  and 
what  would  be  food  for  one  would  be  death  to  the  other. 


624  PLORICULTURB. 

In  watering  plants  the  roots  and  bulbs  sboald  receive  a  thorough 
soaking,  as  a  slight  watering  does  little  or  no  good.  Plants  in  bud 
or  blossom  require  more  frequent  watering  than  those  only  in  foli- 
age. Tepid  water  should  always  be  used  in  plant  watering,  and 
should  be  applied  in  as  fine  a  spray  as  possible.  The  leaves  of 
plants  should  be  washed  at  least  once  a  week,  as  this  keeps  the 
plant  free  from  insects. 

For  fertilizers,  an  old  authority  recommends  a  small  portion  of 
the  essence  of  night-soil  in  three  pints  of  water,  and  this  to  be  used 
once  or  twice  a  week;  also  a  few  drops  of  liquid  ammonia  in  a 
quart  of  soft  water  is  good  for  the  plants. 

The  best  compost  for  pot  plants  is  one  part  leaf -mold,  one  part 
rich  loam,  one  part  river  sand,  and  one  part  peat,  mixing  the  whole 
thoroughly  together. 

Pots  for  house  plants  should  not  be  too  large,  as  it  is  allowed 
that  plants  which  grow  in  small  pots  are  the  best  bloomers.  The 
pot  should  be  well  washed  before  using  it,  and  thoroughly  dried  in 
the  sun.  Two  or  three  pieces  of  broken  crock  with  a  little  char- 
coal should  go  in  the  bottom  for  drainage.  Pots  should  not  be 
filled  to  the  edge  with  soil,  as  room  should  be  left  for  watering. 
Care  should  be  taken  not  to  pile  the  earth  around  the  neck  of  the 
plant,  as  it  is  injurious  to  most  plants. 

The  begonia  is  a  very  popular  house  plant  and  is  becoming  more 
of  a  favorite  every  year,  with  its  elegant  foliage  and  profuse  waxy 
flowers  of  scarlet,  pink,  and  white.  The  rex  is  the  handsomest  and 
the  richest  of  the  begonia  family,  with  its  grand  imperial  leaves  of 
enormous  size  tinged  with  crimson  and  ornamented  with  blotches 
of  green  and  white  and  zones  of  silver.  It  requires  an  even  tem- 
perature of  from  sixty  to  seventy-five  degrees,  and  considerable 
moisture.  It  is  easily  blighted,  and  the  leaves  should  not  be 
allowed  to  touch  a  cold  window-pane.  The  leaves  sell  from  twenty- 
five  to  fifty  cents  apiece,  according  to  the  size. 

The  fuchsia,  known  by  the  vulgar  name  of  "  lady's  ear-drop,"  is 
very  popular  as  a  house  plant.     It  is  quite  hardy,  not  requiring^ 


FLORICULTUKEl 


625 


much  heat^  and  will  even  bear  a  little  frost  without  injury;  but  to 
keep  it  in  good  condition  as  to  leaf  and  flower,  a  temperature  of 
sixty  or  sixty-five  degrees  is  necessary.  It  also  requires  plenty  of 
light  and  air,  and  good  rich  soil  is  essential,  with  a  humid  atmos- 
phere. It  is  easily  raised  by  propagation,  and  can  be  trained  as  a 
dwarf  creeper,  or  made  of  a  broader  shape  by  pruning  the  end  or 
terminal  shoots  till  the  side  branches  grow.  The  fuchsia  drops  its 
leaves  very  readily,  probably  from  being  such  a  victim  to  the  red 
spider.  The  only  remedy  for  these  minute  insects  is  an  occasional 
syringing  of  the  plants,  or  smoking  them  with  tobacco. 

'^  Mignonette,  though  humble,  is  not  to  be  despised.  An  orna- 
mental window-box  filled  only  with  this  low-growing,  violet- scented 
annual  is  a  desirable  addition  to  any  room.  A  pot  of  tnignonette 
and  another  of  sweet  alyssum  cost  nothing,  and  yet  few  things  will 
be  found  more  pleasant  and  attractive  in  the  winter  season.  Plants 
that  appear  unimportant,  almost  insignificant,  and  entirely  eclipsed 
by  more  ambitious  rivals,  when  the  garden  is  ablaze  with  its  sum- 
mer glory,  sometimes  prove  to  be  very  queens  of  beauty  when 
transferred  to  the  sitting-room  or  bay  window." 

There  are  many  varieties  of  this  plant.  The  crimson-flowered 
giant,  of  robust  habit  with  very  large  spikes  of  handsome  crimson 
flowers,  of  exquisite  fragrance;  Parson's  white-flowering  giant, 
flowers  almost  a  pure  white,  of  great  fragrance;  dwarf  compact,  a 
distinct  and  very  desirable  variety.  It  forms  a  dense  semi-globular 
bush  about  ten  inches  high  and  eighteen  inches  in  diameter,  of 
robust  vigorous  branches,  which  are  said  to  be  produced  without 
intermission  from  spring  till  late  in  autumn.  Miles  hybrid  spiral, 
is  said  to  be  superior  to  any  in  cultivation.  It  is  of  dwarf -branch- 
ing habit,  the  flower  spikes  attaining  a  height  of  eight  to  fourteen 
inches. 

Bouvardias  are  free-bloomers  with  proper  care,  bearing  generous 
clusters  of  rose,  crimson,  scarlet,  and  white  flowers,  and  beginning, 
to  bloom  when  only  two  or  three  inches  high.     Beginning  to  bloom 
in  August,   they  continue  till   frost.      The  new  Alfred  Nemer, 


636  FLORICULTURE. 

Davidsonii,  eUgans  lienthOf  are  the  chief  varieties.  The  David- 
aonii,  the  flowers  of  which  are  rather  larger  than  the  single  fiover- 
ing,  and  composed  of  three  perfect  rows  of  petals  of  the  purest 
waxy  white  color,  each  floweret  resembling  a  miniature  tuberose. 
The  trusses  are  large  and  perfect,  and  are  freely  and  withont  inter- 
ruption produced  even  od  the  small  side-flhootii,  which  generally 
make  do  flowers  on  the  single  one,  and  according  to  authority  io 
observation  and  experience,  it  will  bloom  more  freely  and  coDstantly 
than  the  single  variety. 


1 


The  heliotrope  is  a  great  favorite  from  cottage  to  palace,  not  only 
for  the  garden,  but  for  the  bouse  as  well.  Its  delicate  sprays  of 
flowers,  in  various  shades  of  purple  and  its  exquisite  fr^rance, 
make  it  very  desirable  for  bouquets.  It  likes  plenty  of  light  and  s 
good  rich  soil.  It  should  be  well  watered.  It  grows  from  cuttinga 
as  readily  as  the  fuchsia,  but  the  old  plants  are  the  best  growers. 

With  all  these  and  many  more  to  select  from,  the  window  and  its 
surroundings  may  be  made  very  effective.  A  window  extending 
from  floor  to  ceiling  is  well  adapted  for  this  style  of  gardening. 


FLORICULTURE.  627 

«iid  sboiild  be  611ed  with  plants  growing  in  boxes  or  pots  and  set 
on  high  brackets  on  each  side  of  the  casement;  if  the  windov  has  » 
sliding  screen  of  stained  glass  in  it  the  efiFect  wilt  be  so  muoh  better. 
The  climbers  ma^  be  lophoapermnm,  a  beauiifnl  evergreen  climber 
with  porple  and  violet  blossoms,  Maderia  vine,  Alpine  woodbine, 
and  all  or  any  kind  of  ivies,  while  smilax,  vincas  and  arbutus 
'droop  and  tr^l.  Bright  colored  flowers  may  be  scattered  around 
in  graceful  Wedgewood,  Wedgewood  jardiniiret  forming  a  lovelj 
•contrast  with  the  green  background.     Small  brackets  holding  pots 


-of  carnations,  bouvardias  and  heliotropes  may  be  placed  among  the 
vines  in  the  window.  Hanging  baskets  and  wall  pockets  may  also 
find  a  place  there  with  good  effect 

Wall  pockets  are  becoming  now  more  fashionable  than  hanging 
baskets.  Cut  a  thin  board  in  the  shape  of  a  shield  to  form  the  back. 
Bore  a  hole  in  the  centre  near  the  top  to  suspend  it  from  a  nail, 
then  bore  small  holes  all  round  the  edge  about  half  sn  inch  apart 
The  pocket  is  made  with  ordinary  brass  or  white  wire,  which  is 
passed  through  the  holes  from  side  to  side  and  carefully  fastened  at 


628  PLORICULTURB. 

each  end.  The  same  process  is  repeated  from  top  to  bottom  of  the 
shield  and  the  wires  fastened  together.  The  receptacle  is  then 
lined  with  mosses  and  filled  with  wood  earth.  Arbutus,  partridge 
vine,  wintergreen,  etc.,  mingled  with  ferns,  will  all  take  kindly  to 
these  novel  quarters  if  kept  constantly  moist. 

Almost  anything  may  be  converted  into  a  hanging  basket.  Line 
it  with  moss  with  a  little  soil  attached,  and  place  in  the  center  some 
showy  plant  of  upright  habit,  fill  up  the  surrounding  space  with 
rich  woods  and  old  hot-bed  soil,  fill  in  with  plants  of  a  climbing  or 
trailing  habit,  when  the  center  plant  fades  it  may  be  replaced  by  a 
fresh  one.  In  filling  a  basket,  select  plants  of  similar  habits,  those 
of  like  shape  and  moisture — ^fuchsia,  lobelia,  geraniums,  wax  plants, 
vinca,  and  wild  and  cultivated  ferns.  Fof  hanging-baskets  nothiue 
can  compare  with  the  sedum  seboldii,  oxalis,  creeping  Charlie,  etc.  . 
Very  handsome  hanging-baskets  are  made  from  glass  dishes  set  in 
silk  or  satin  bags  decorated  with  fancy  pictures,  or  else  embroidered; 
they  are  hung  by  three  silken  cords,  place  at  equal  distances  in 
order  to  balance  the  dish.  Ivies  and  ferns  look  pretty  in  this  arrange- 
ment,  or  a  sweet  potato,  with  its  pretty  foliage  and  quickly  climb- 
ing habit,  grows  nicely  in  it. 

Ferns  and  ivy  mingled  will  fill  a  hanging-basket  very  prettily, 
but  the  ivy  for  this  purpose  should  be  the  small  leaved  kind,  which 
sends  out  graceful,  compact  sprays  to  twine  around  the  wires  by 
which  the  basket  is  suspended,  and  to  droop  over  the  edges.  The 
sweet-pea  has  been  successfully  cultivated  in  a  hanging-basket,  and 
the  Convolvidtis  JfauritanicuSy  a  beautiful  morning-glory  with  pink 
and  blue  flowers,  having  a  white  star  in  the  center,  will  grow  and 
blossom  equally  well.  A  very  good  eflfect  is  produced  with  pressed 
ferns  and  ivy  growing  in  bottles.  Two  or  more  ounce  phials  are 
used,  and  wrapped  around  with  cotton  to  keep  them  firm  and  pre- 
vent them  from  jarring  each  other. 

Hanging-baskets  require  frequent  watering,  for  which,  with  due 
regard  to  the  carpet,  they  have  to  be  taken  down  from  their  perches, 
and  then  hung  somewhere  else  to  dry;  but  this  trouble  may  be 


FLORICULTURE.  629 

Avoided  in  another  ingenions  way,  which  ia  to  fill  a  bottle  with 
water  and  put  in  two  or  more  pieces  of  woollen  yarn,  leaving  one 
end  of  each  piece  outside.  Tlie  bottles  should  be  hung  just  above 
tbe  basket,  and  the  water  allowed  to  drip  which  will  keep  the  earth 
moist  enough  for  winter. 


Within  the  last  few  years  the  exquisitely  beautiful  and  graoefol 
fern  tribe  has  become  quite  a  household  favorite;  so  much  so,  in 
fact,  that  a  drawing-room  would  now  be  scarcely  considered  com- 
pletely furnished  without  its  one  or  more  cases,  each  containing 
specimens  of  the  tribe.  This  is  not  at  all  surprising,  as,  besides  the 
great  beauty  of  the  plants  and  the  facility  with  which  tbey  may  be 
applied  to  household  decoration,  they  am  very  easily  grown,  and 
require  but  little  attention  when  once  the  cases  are  gotten  into  good 
order.  Besides  this,  however,  there  is  the  interest  attached  to  the 
careful  study  of  tbe  growing  plants,  which  would  alone  repay  the 
little  expenditure  of  time  and  trouble  involved  in  their  coltivaiioa. 


630  .  FLORICULTURE. 

There  are  three  essential  conditions  necessary  in  order  that  the 
culture  of  fern  plants  may  be  successful:  namely,  abundance  of 
water,  shade,  and  shelter.  It  is  true  that  some  varieties  will  flourish 
independently  of  some  of  these  conditions,  but  when  judiciously 
combined  they  will  admit  of  the  successful  cultivation  of  the  whole 
species.  One  ^f  the  most  important  considerations  is  the  supply  of 
water.  The  roots  of  the  plants  should  always  be  well  supplied  with 
this,  and  it  should  on'  no  account  be  allowed  to  remain  stagnant. 
It  is  then  necessary  to  provide  for  the  thorough  drainage  of  the 
fern  case. 

These  ferneries  are  made  in  different  styles.  The  illustration  on 
preceding  page  shows  a  small  rustic  pattern  with  a  hanging  basket 
to  correspond.  In  this  illustration  the  intention  is  to  provide  in 
the  fern  case  a  kind  of  rustic  frame  through  which  the  beautiful 
forms  of  the  plants  may  be  observed,  instead  of  the  ordinary 
square  and  inelegant  lines  in  which  they  are  usually  enclosed. 

The  design  is  merely  offered  by  way  of  suggestion;  and  it  will 
be  better  for  the  constructor  to  decorate  according  to  his  own  taste 
than  to  work  to  any  pattern. 

Most  of  the  fern  tribe  grown  indoors  are  raised  in  Wardian  cases. 
In  starting  a  fernery,  the  first  thing  to  be  observed  is  laying  a 
foundation  of  small  pieces  of  rock  mixed  with  charcoal  in  the  bot- 
tom; if  the  case  is  large  enough  to  admit  it,  a  small  or  tiny  rockery 
may  be  placed  in  the  centre  with  good  effect.  It  is  maintained  by 
good  authority  that  equal  parts  of  sand,  loam,  and  leaf -mold  is  the 
proper  soil  for  ferns.  If  woodland  ferns  are  put  in,  they  should 
have  a  generous  portion  of  native  soil  left  at  the  root.  The  fernery 
proper  should  have  all  Mrild  things  in  it.  The  pretty  partridge-vine, 
with  its  tiny  evergreen  leaves  and  red,  waxy  berries,  sanguinaria, 
hepatica,  trailing  arbutus,  and  lycopodium,  all  grow  charmingly  in 
the  fernery,  and  with  the  wild  ferns  and  mosses  make  a  happy 
family.  The  plants  should  have  a  sprinkling  before  the  case  is 
closed,  and  must  be  kept  in  a  shady  situation  for  several  days. 
Fernery  plants  do  not  require  frequent  watering;  once  in  every 


PLOUICULTUUE.  631 

three  or  four  weeks  should  be  sufficient.  As  long  as  the  glass  has 
moisture  on  it,  the  plants  require  no  water.  If  too  much  watering 
be  given,  the  plants  will  mold  and  die;  these  should  be  replaced 
with  fresh  ones.  The  plants  should  be  gracefully  arranged,  the 
low-growing  vines  in  front  and  the  ferns  at  the  sides. 

Fern  baskets  look  pretty  hung  over  the  plants,  if  the  dimensions 
of  the  fern  case  admit  it.  They  can  be  made  in  any  conceivable 
design  and  look  exceedingly  beautiful  when  filled  with  low-grow- 
ing ferns  and  drooping  trailers.     (See  illustration,  page  527.) 

Hardy  ferns  are  found  in  various  situations,  and  consequently 
require  various  modes  o£  treatment.  Some  grow  on  rocks  in 
exposed  situations,  others  in  boggy,  moist  ground;  some  grow  on 
hedge-banks  and  shady  woods,  whilst  others,  again,  grow  near 
waterfalls  where  the  spray  keeps  them  constantly  moist.  To 
succeed  in  cultivating  all  these  in  one  place,  an  approximation  must 
be  made  to  the  circumstances  in  which  they  are  found  wild.  A 
low,  moist  soil,  at  the  foot  of  a  bank  of  rock-work,  will  suit  those 
found  in  a  similar  situation.  The  lower  part  of  rock  will  suit  those 
found  on  hedge-banks.  Those  found  in  shady  woods  may  be 
planted  on  the  north  side  of  the  rock-work  near  to  the  ground, 
while  those  that  grow  wild  on  exposed  rocks  and  old  walls,  may  be 
placed  near  the  top  of  the  rock-work  in  chinks  between  the  stones. 
The  most  difficult  to  manage  are  those  found  within  the  reach  of 
the  spray  of  a  waterfall.  The  only  way  to  succeed  tolerably  with 
these  is  to  place  them  so  that  they  can  be  covered  with  a  hand-glass 
on  the  shady  side  of  the  rock  and  to  keep  them  moist  by  sprinkling 
them  every  day  through  the  rose  of  a  watering-pot,  protecting  them 
in  winter  by  a  covering  of  matting  thrown  over  the  hand-glass  in 
frosty  weather. 

Any  species  of  fern  that  sends  out  stolons,  or  creeping  stems, 
under  ground,  readily  increases  by  division.  This  requires  consid- 
erable care.  They  should  never  be  divided  till  the  parts  to  be 
separated  have  a  portion  of  roots  to  each.  Turn  the  plants  out  of 
the  pots,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  divide  the  plants  into  as  many  parts 


632  FLORICULTURE. 

AS  they  have  roots  and  a  small  hall;  put  them  into  pots  only  a  little 
larger  than  the  little  hall,  drain  them  well,  give  a  gentle  watering, 
and  set  them  in  a  shady  place  till  they  hegin  to  grow  again  and 
send  up  fresh  fronds.  Several  species  produce  miniature  embryo- 
plants  on  the  fronds.  These  should  be  pegged  down  in  a  pot  filled 
with  proper  soil,  and  placed  so  near  the  parent  plant  as  to  allow  the 
fronds  to  remain  attached  to  it.  When  the  buds  have  made  root 
into  the  new  soil,  and  pushed  forth  some  new  fronds,  they  should 
be  detached  from  the  parent,  and  potted  in  two  and  a  half  inch 
pots,  gently  watered  and  placed  in  a  shady  place.  Some  new  kinds 
have  those  buds  or  knobs  so  strongly  developed,  that  they  may,, 
when  iu  a  sufficiently  forward  state,  be  cut  off  and  potted  at  once. 

Several  of  the  finest  ferns  cannot  be  increased  by  division,  or  if 
they  can,  several  years  elapse.  If  right  means  are  followed,  they 
may  be  raised  by  seed.  This  requires  a  constantly  wann,  humid 
atmosphere,  and  little  if  any  sunshine.  Procure  a  wide  earthen 
pan,  a  hand  or  bell-glass  that  will  go  within  it  and  rest  on  the 
bottom,  and  a  shallow  wide  pot  that  will  stand  within  the  glass  and 
above  the  rim  of  the  pan  two  or  three  inches.  Fill  this  half  full  of 
potsherds  and  upon  them  a  sufficient  number  of  small  pieces  of 
turfy  peat,  mixed  with  small  pieces  of  sandstone  about  the  size  of 
peas,  to  come  up  to  the  pot.  Then  take  the  fronds  of  any  fern  that 
is  full  of  spores  or  seeds,  and,  with  the  hand,  brush  them  off  upon 
the  prepared  pot,  set  it  in  the  pan,  place  the  glass  over  the  pot,  and 
nearly  fill  the  pan  with  water.  Place  the  whole  in  a  warm  situa- 
tion, shading  it  from  the  sun.  The  small  pieces  of  turf  and  stone 
can  be  easily  separated,  and  the  seedlings  on  each  put  into  small 
pots,  without  any  danger  of  destroying  them  by  the  process  of 
potting.  In  the  moist  atmosphere  of  the  orchid  house,  several 
pieces  of  fern  will  come  up  spontaneously  in  the  pots,  baskets,  and 
upon  the  blocks.  These  may  be  carefully  detached  as  soon  as  they 
are  large  enough,  and  potted  in  small  pots,  placed  for  a  time  in 
shady  situations,  and  they  will  soon  make  nice  bushy  plants. 

The  soil  best  adapted  to  the  fern  tribe  is  a  compost  of  sandy,. 


FLORICULTURK  633 

fibrous  peat  two  parts,  turfy  loam  one  part,  and  leaf  mold  one 
part,  with  a  free  admixture  of  sand.  The  best  time  *for  potting 
is  early  in  March,  small  plants  may  be  potted  twice,  the  second 
time  the  first  week  in  July.  Fenis  are  like  heath,  if  they  once 
get  thoroughly  dry  they  will  perish,  therefore  keep  them  con- 
stantly well  watered,  more  especially  when  the  pots  are  full  of 
roots.  Should  they  by  any  chance  appear  to  be  suffering  severely 
from  drought,  take  such  and  let  them  stand  in  a  vessel  of  water 
that  will  cover  the  top  of  the  pot  for  an  hour  or  two.  This  will 
thoroughly  wet  every  part  of  the  ball,  and  often  recover  the  plant. 
If  such  a  convenience  is  at  hand,  the  smaller  ferns,  like  other  green- 
house plants,  will  be  greatly  benefitted  by  a  few  weeks'  sojourn  in 
the  middle  of  summer  in  a  deep,  cold  pit.  Here  they  should  be 
well  supplied  with  water,  and  nearly  every  afternoon,  about  three 
•o'clock,  have  a  gentle  syringing,  shutting  them  up  close  afterwards. 
As  soon  .as  the  nights  begin  to  get  cold  in  September,  they  should 
be  removed  to  the  green-house  and  given  a  temperature  of  sixty 
degrees  maximum  and  fifty-five  degrees  minimum  by  day,  fifty-two 
degrees  by  night.  During  this  season  less  water  will  be  required. 
Bemove  all  decayed  fronds  and  give  them  a  top-dressing  in 
December.  This  will  carry  them  through  till  the  potting  season 
arrives  in  March.  The  green  fly  and  thrip  will  frequently  appear 
on  them.     Smoking  with  tobacco  Wjj  \l  octroy  them  both. 


r 


CHAPTER  XLII. 


THE  PICNIC. 

Gi 

HIS  method  of  being  amused  is  as  useful  to  human  beings  as  if 
it  were  ordered  by  a  physician  at  a  guinea  a  prescription.  To- 
be  sure,  it  may  be  made  humdrum,  heavy,  over-dressed,  and 
even  uncomfortable  and  wearisome;  but  it  need  not  be.  The  real 
delight  of  such  an  outing  is  found  in  small,  congenial  parties  of  a 
dozen  or  so  of  young  persons,  with  one  or  two  sedate  friends  to 
give  tone,  balance,  and  character  to  the  entertainment.  The  genu- 
ineness of  that  evasive  thing  which  we  call  pleasure,  is  sure  to 
be  established  if  it  leave  a  pleasant  remembrance.  If  it  be  an  alto- 
gether agreeable  event  in  our  recollection,  it  may  properly  bear  the 
seal,  named  happiness. 

Thoughtlessness  is  pardonable  in  youth,  but  its  occurrences  and 
consequences  are  often  avoided  by  the  presence  of  an  experienced 
or  worldly-wise  elder.  A  sympathetic  friend,  who  has  seen  her 
years  drift  by  her,  without  forgetting  that  they  were  strewn  with 
trifling  pleasures  just  as  the  meadows  are  with  cowslips,  and  who 
recalls  them  with  satisfaction,  is  just  the  one  to  choose  to  accom- 
pany a  party  of  cd-fresco  amusement-seekers.  Perhaps  this  sen- 
tence should  have  its  reversal,  as  indeed,  it  sometimes  does,  when 
this  agreeable  friend,  with  her  years  of  happy  and  wholesome 
memories,  herself  plans  for  the  picnic  and  invites  a  properly 
assoited  company  of  young  people  to  join  in  a  day's  excursion  to 
the  hills  or  woods,  which  she  wisely  and  unselfishly  directs,  and 
arranges  for  their  personal  comfort  and  conduct. 

584 


THE  PICNIC.  535 

•  If  the  party  is  to  drive  or  ride,  let  not  the  distance  be  too  great. 
There  should  be  a  stream  of  spring  or  pure  water,  materials  for  a 
fire,  shade  intermingled  with  sunshine,  and  a  reasonable  freedom 
from  tormenting  insect-life.  Charming  as  is  the  prospect  of  pic- 
nicking in  some  grand  dell,  upon  some  lofty  peak,  or  in  some 
famous  cave  or  legendary  ruin,  there  are  also  other  considerations 
which  should  not  be  forgotten.  One  does  not  feel  too  comfortable 
when  banquetting  in  localities  where  Dame  Nature  has  had  her 
queer  moods,  and  has  left  imprinted  certain  too  observable  evi- 
dences of  her  freakiness.  Such  places  may  be  included  within  the 
excursion  itself,  but  let  the  feast  and  the  frolic  take  place  where 
weird  effects  are  not  the  prevailing  characteristic  of  the  locality. 

Be  careful  to  dress  for  the  entertainment,  after  consulting  the 
barometer  and  the  thermometer,  and  after  learning  the  geography 
of  the  objective  point  of  the  day.  A  woollen  dress  that  is  not  too 
heavy  nor  yet  too  new,  or  a  cotton  one  that  is  not  too  thin,  with 
short,  trim  skirts,  and  no  fly-away  draperies  to  entangle  and  to 
bother;  thick,  solid,  easy  shoes,  that  have  a  friendliness  for  the  feet 
because  of  prolonged  intimacy  with  them;  pretty,  but  not  too  fine 
or  thin  stockings;  a  hat  that  has  abroad  brim;  a  large  sun-shade  or 
a  sun-umbrella;  at  least  two  fresh  handkerchiefs;  some  pins,  and  a 
needle  and  thread  stowed  away  in  one's  portemonnaie  or  chatelaine- 
pocket;  easy  castor,  kid  or  sukde  gloves,  with  ample  wrists;  a 
jacket  to  wear  when  returning  home;  and  a  rug  or  travelling-shawl 
to  spread  upon  the  ground  at  dinner-time,  are  among  the  requisites 
of  personal  comfort  and  prettiness. 

Two  or  three  hammocks,  provided  the  picnic  be  in  a  forest;  a  few 
closely-folding  camp-chairs,  and  a  spirit  lamp  or  two  for  extra  tea 
or  coffee,  are  comforts  that  require  no  space  worth  considering,  and 
only  a  little  remembrance  when  packing  up,  while  they  really 
increase  to  a  large  degree  the  agreeable  flavor  of  a  day  in  the 
woods. 

Don't  forget  two  or  three  books  that  have  brief,  bright  poems  or 
narratives  in  them,   for  inactive  or  half -dreamy  members  of  the 


536  THE  PICNIC. 

party,  upon  whom  the  spirit  of  romance  and  rhythm  is  sure  to  fall 
after  dinner,  provided  they  do  not  drop  asleep  entirely. 

When  providing  food  for  the  party,  pray  do  not  forget  to  supply 
at  least  double  the  quantity  which  would  be  served  at  home  for  the 
same  number  of  people,  and  then  be  sure  to  add  a  little  more.  To 
be  hungry,  ravenously  hungry,  while  in  the  woods,  proves  to  us 
that  fresh  air  is  wholesome  and  that  nature  encourages  vigorous 
appetites.  Therefore,  even  if  they  were  convenient  of  transport, 
soups  would  not  be  a  necessary  stimulant  to  digestion. 

Of  fish,  cold  boiled  salmon,  upon  which  a  mayonnaise  may  be 
served  at  pleasure  from  a  wide-mouthed  bottle;  or  sardines,  accom- 
panied by  sardine-scissors,  are  the  easiest  to  manage,  and  altogether 
the  most  satisfactory — ^but  don't  forget  their  intimate  friends,  the 
lemons. 

About  meats,  there  are  many  varieties  that  may  be  served  in  the 
woods,  but  they  should  always  be  such  as  can  be  arranged  for 
finger,  rather  than  fork,  eating.  Nature  did  not  make  forks,  as  is 
frequently  asserted;  and,  therefore,  a  picnic  a  la  fourchette  is  not 
.  just  that  agreeable  sort  of  free  and  easy  entertainment  that  is  the 
most  charming  to  people  who  are  already  wearied  with  pomps  and 
forms,  ceremonies  and  things  generally  spectacular,  and  who  flee  to 
the  woods  in  print  dresses  and  plain  uniforms,  in  order  to  escape 
such  exactions  for  a  little  while.  In  fact,  they  long  to  eat  food  bj 
the  aid  of  their  fingers.  Tiny  lamb  or  veal  chops,  closely  and  care- 
fully trimmed,  dipped  in  egg  and  then  in  crumbs  and  delicately 
browned,  after  which  their  stems  are  rufiled  with  paper — en 
papiUote,  as  the  Pariaienne  calls  them — are  delicious  when  cold, 
and  are  easy  to  manage.  Chickens,  cut  up  after  roasting  or  broil- 
ing, are  excellent  and  appropriate,  but  they  are  not  so  dainty  or 
convenient  to  handle  as  the  papered  chops. 

The  best  and  most  convenient  of  all  out-of-door  edibles,  is  the 
sandwich.  Not  the  one  with  slips  of  meat  laid  between  slices  of 
buttered  bread,  so  that  when  a  bite  of  bread  is  taken,  all  the 
enclosed  meat  is  dragged  out,  unless  a  serious  contest  takes  place 


THE  PICNIC.  537 

in  its  behalf  between  the  teeth  and  fingers,  which,  to  confess  the 
truth,  is  not  an  attractive  confli(;t,  as  every  one  will  attest  who  ever 
saw  a  party  of  railway-travellers,  each  at  war  with  one  of  them,  as 
the  train  moved  out  from  a  way-station  where  the  conductor  had 
cried  out  ^* five  minutes  for  refreshments!"  To  make  sandwiches 
that  leave  none  but  pleasant  memories  and  provoke  no  temper  while 
in  transit  from  the  basket  to  the  gastric  regions,  always  grind  the 
meat  or  chop  it  when  cold  to  very  near  a  pulp.  Make  a  thick 
mayonnaise^  and  mix  it  with  the  meat  until  it  is  about  the  consist- 
tency  of  marmalade.  Store  and  carry  this  most  agreeable  prepara- 
tion in  a  covered  dish  or  close  jar.  If  it  be  rich  with  good  oil,  no 
butter  is  needed.  Sometimes,  however,  butter  is  beaten  in  with  the 
meat  before  it  is  married  to  the  mayonnaise,  which  gives  to  the 
sandwich  a  delicious  flavor.  Carry  along  with  the  meat  biscuits  or 
uncut  loaves  of  good  bread,  with  sharp  knives  to  slice  them  evenly 
And  thinly;  and  don't  fail  to  remember  what  intensity  the  appetite 
may  possess  by  mid-day,  nor  yet  that,  when  it  is  appeased  at  that 
hour,  it  frequently  renews  its  strength  and  comes  back  again  about 
four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  and  is  as  exacting  as  if  it  had  not  been 
appeased  for  a  whole  week.  These  best-of-all  sandwiches  are  made 
ready  when  they  are  wanted.  They  are  thus  preserved  from  that 
taste  of  staleness  that  comes  over  them  when  they  have  made  a 
journey  after  the  meat  was  joined  to  the  bread.  Cold  tongue,  cold 
roast  veal,  cold  roast  beef,  and  cold  ham  are  all  of  them  excellent 
for  sandwiches,  but  the  flavoring  of  salt,  mustard,  etc.,  is  varied  to 
suit  the  peculiar  qualities  of  each.  Tongue  and  ham  possess  decided 
qualities  of  their  own,  but  the  other  two  meats  require  toning-up  to 
suit  the  palate.  Grated  pineapple-cheese,  mixed  with  a  thick  may- 
onnaise and  placed  between  very  thinly  cut  slices  of  bread,  is  very 
much  liked  by  gentlemen.  Olives,  pickles  and  jellies  are  easily 
carried,  and  prove  agreeable  additions. 

For  desserts,  there  are  many  things,  but  beware  of  articles  that 
will  not  bear  travelling  without  looking  dejected  and  sullen.^    Can- 


538  THE  PICNIC. 

died  fruits,  with  macaroons,  sponge  or  pound  cakes,  are  about  the- 
most  agreeable  of  all  the  sweets  which  are  adapted  to  journeys. 

Small  sugared  fruits  may  be  purchased  of  the  confectioner,  but 
grapes,  currants  and  oranges  are  easily  prepared  at  home  after  the 
following  manner:  Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  of  water,  boil 
them  slowly  together  for  thirty  minutes,  add  the  juice  of  one.  small 
lemon,  and  then  place  the  vessel  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  to  prevent 
the  syrup  from  getting  stiff.  Dip  ripe  fruits  into  it,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  buttered  plate  until  cold.  Currants  may  be  dipped  by 
holding  them  by  their  stems.  Grapes  are  taken  up  on  the  point  of 
a  long  pin,  dipped  in  the  sugar,  and  laid  carefully  aside  to  dry. 
Oranges  are  removed  from  their  skins  and  pulled  apart  into  as  small 
pieces  as  one  likes,  and  then  dipped  with  the  assistance  of  the  pin, 
after  the  fashion  of  the  grapes.  These  articles  of  delicacy  are  not 
only  delicious  but  decorative.  The  sections  of  orange  may  be 
arranged  prettily  about  the  plate,  and  built  up  into  a  cone  for  the 
table  at  home;  but  at  a  picnic,  one  depends  for  beauty  mostly  upon 
the  landscape.  Fresh  fruits  are  also  agreeable  at  an  out-door  feast^ 
without  coating  them  with  sugar. 

For  drinking,  tea  that  has  been  made,  seasoned  while  hot  and 
then  bottled  directly,  is  delicious.  So  also  is  coffee;  but  both  these 
liquids  may  be  made  fresh  by  the  fire,  if  one  is  built  in  gypsy 
fashion.  For  lemonade,  roll  the  fruit  in  granulated  sugar  that  is 
spread  upon  a  marble  or  other  hard  surface,  then  squeeze  them  over 
the  sugar  and  remove  their  seeds.  The  juice,  thus  obtained,  may 
be  bottled  for  the  journey  and  added  to  water  at  pleasure.  If  ice 
must  be  carried,  select  a  clear,  solid  piece  and  wrap  it  in  "a  heavy 
flannel.  Carry  an  ice-pick  with  it,  so  that  it  may  be  broken  up 
when  needed,  with  as  little  waste  as  possible. 

One  really  requires  no  wine  at  an  al-fresco  feast,  even  if  accus- 
tomed to  use  it  at  a  home  dinner.  The  exhilaration  of  the  air  ia 
quite  sufficient  for  the  needs  of  digestion.  If  wine  must  be  carried, 
claret  is  best,  because  it  is  never  served  with  ice,  the  most  fastidious. 


THE  PICNIC,  639 

of  wine-tasters  insisting  that  its  flavor  is  injured  if  it  is  not  drank 
while  of  the  same  temperature  as  the  atmosphere. 

For  the  feast,  forget  not  the  napkins,  forks,  spoons,  and  lanch- 
eon-cloth.  Also  carry  tumblers,  plates,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  a 
bottle  of  cream  or  a  can  of  condensed  milk.  Cups  with  handles, 
but  no  saucers,  are  desirable  for  tea  and  coffee. 

After  a  banquet  of  this  delightful  sort,  the  reflection  presses  itself 
upon  the  housekeeper  and  the  house-mother,  that  we  have  over- 
much service,  too  extended  paraphernalia,  and  most  tiresome  formal- 
ities that  consume  our  forces  every  day  of  our  lives,  and  that  they 
are  as  beautiful  as  they  are  utterly  needless.  From  the  height  of 
our  intellects  we  look  contemptuously  down  on  them,  but  when  we 
once  more  return  to  these  fashions  of  our  living,  we  bow  down  to 
them  with  a  sort  of  fetish  reverenqe.  To  escape  their  burdens, 
arrange  a  picnic  once  a  week  so  long  as  the  sunshine  invites  you  to 
sit  under  its  beams  and  the  trees  have,  the  least  array  of  foliage  left 
to  wave  over  you. 


CHAPTER  XLIII. 

GARDEN    PARTIES. 

XCEPT  that  it  is  arranged  oat-of -doors,  a  garden  party  wonld 
seem  to  be  no  relation  to  the  picnic.  The  truth  is,  they  really 
are  cousins  and  represent  the  two  extremes  in  the  fashions  of 
feasting  or  of  being  amused  and  entertained.  One  is  an  escape 
from  etiquette  and  Philistinism,  while  the  other  is  carrying  hospit- 
able display  and  social  observances  to  an  almost  unreasonable 
extreme. 

Sometimes  garden  parties  are  excesses  of  extravagance.  For 
those  who  are  able  to  afford  such  hospitalities,  they  are  all  right 
enough,  because  to  the  caterer,  the  florbt  and  the  laborer,  both  male 
and  female,  they  give  extra  employment.  They  disburse  money 
through  a  community  which  might  be  otherwise  lying  idle.  On  the 
whole,  costly  garden  parties  are  a  blessing  to  business  people,  a 
pretty  spectacle  to  guests,  and  perhaps  one  of  the  least  objectionable 
of  the  many  methods  by  which  the  rich  indulge  their  fanciful  tastes. 
If  the  fortunate  had  no  caprices  of  this  sort,  the  country  would  very 
soon  lack  many  of  its  present  industrial  activities  and  prosperities. 
^'The  occasional  lavishness  of  the  millionaire  is  the  letting  free  of 
imprisoned  capital,''  says  the  political  economist.  This  process  is 
somewhat  akin  to  the  habits  of  royalty,  which,  in  some  countries, 
whenever  a  great  and  satisfactory  event  transpires  in  its  favor,  sets 
at  liberty  certain  numbers  of  prisoners. 

The  garden  party  requires  a  shaven  lawn,  shade  trees,  and  seats 
with  rugs  and  hassocks  in  front  of  them  for  delicate  feet  that  have 
become  wearied.     Marquees  in  gay  colors,  or  fancy  awnings  that 

540 


GARDEN  PARTIES.  641 

have  no  sides,  bat  only  pretty  hanging  borders  to  flutter  in  the 
summer  air,  may  be  placed  at  proper  intervals.  A  dancing  floor  is 
often  laid  beneath  such  a  shelter,  for  those  who  don't  wish  to  make 
the  occasion  altogether  rural  by  dancing  upon  the  velvety  turf. 
Perhaps  this  distaste  for  whirling  and  gliding  upon  the  lawn  itself 
after  the  fashion  of  the  peasant  maiden,  is  because  waltz  and 
redowa,  polka  and  cotillion  are  less  easily  performed  upon  a  soft 
suifact;,  «»nd  because  the  slippers  of  my  lady  of  luxury  have  no 
affinity  with  the  tidy  and  sensible  buskin  of  the  country  girl. 

Umbrella  awnings,  planted  here  and  there  upon  the  lawn,  are 
bright  and  tasteful  in  their  different  colors.  With  seats  beneath 
them  for  two  or  more  persons,  they  are  not  only  beautifying  to  the 
garden,  but  they  afford  charming  retreats  where  a  tBte  d  tSte  may 
be  enjoyed  within  sight  of  mamma  or  a  chaperone,  but  hapily  not 
within  hearing.  Thus  really  kind  in  spirit  is  a  fashionable  etiquette 
that  is  security  itself  in  all  its  formalities.  It  is  an  autocracy,  tem- 
pered with  the  sweetest  and  gentlest  of  tolerance  and  even  with 
mercy  itself. 

If  there  is  no  arbor  hedge  or  natural  cluster  of  shrubberies,  be- 
hind which  the  musicians  may  be  hidden,  it  is  customary  to  arrange 
for  them  a  temporary  retreat  of  freshly  cut  pine  or  hemlock  branches 
fixed  in  the  earth.  Care  is  taken  that  the  performers  be  not  arranged 
too  close  to  the  guests,  because  dancing  music  should  not  interrupt 
the  conversation  of  those  who  are  not  disposed  to  dance.  If  the 
selections  to  be  played  at  intervals  are  classic  or  romantic,  distance 
adds  to  their  charms.  Of  course,  the  best  possible  musical  talent  is 
secured  for  si/^te  champtUre^  and  the  rendering  of  the  varied  com- 
positions will  be  agreeable  to  cultivated  ears. 

Arrangements  are  made  for  serving  refreshments  in  the  honse^ 
for  those  who  prefer  to  partake  of  them  within  doors,  and  also  to 
provide  for  the  exigencies  of  the  weather.  Indeed,  the  house  is 
also  placed  in  order  for  dancing,  should  a  shower  occur;  and^  usually, 
the  verandas  have  awnings  attached  to  the  eaves,  to  be  let  down 
as  enclosures,  in  case  of  untoward  winds  or  rains  making  the  grounds 


642  GARDEN  PARTIES. 

disagreeable.  If  the  day  is  fine,  refreshments  are  carried  by 
domestics  to  the  groups  that  prefer  the  open  air,  and  tea-poys  from 
ihe  house  or  little  portable  garden  tables  are  placed  near  groups  of 
guests  for  the  reception  of  their  cups,  plates,  etc. 

The  hours  appointed  are  usually  from  three  o'clock  till  seven, 
although  when  very  rich  and  elaborate  tables  are  to  be  spread,  and 
ihe  grounds  are  aiTanged  to  be  illuminated,  or  there  is  a  full  moon, 
the  guests  are  invited  for  from  four  or  five  o'clock  until  ten  or 

eleven. 

A  caterer  usually  supplies  the  meats  and  drinks  for  such  occa- 
sions. If  the  lady  chooses  to  have  them  provided  from  her  own 
larder,  she  endures  much  anxious  thought,  unless  she  is  one  of  those 
rarely  fortunate  hostesses  with  a  trained  butler  and  a  chef  who  is  a 
genuine  cordon  bleu. 

If  the  party  is  to  be  from  three  o'clock  until  seven,  the  hostess 
provides  only  delicacies  and  light  refreshments.  There  are  salads 
of  various  kinds  served  in  fancy  paper  cups  or  in  orange  skins,  sweet 
bread  and  mushroom  patties  also  in  crimped  paper  cups,  with  deli- 
cate biscuits  or  little  sandwiches.  Then  there  are  small  breaded 
lamb-chops  en  papiUote^  fancy  breads,  meringue  d  la  crhmey  aouJffU 
atix  marrons,  Charlottes,  cream-ices  and  sherbets,  fancy  cakes,  and 
fruits  au  natural  or  sugared,  with  tea,  coffee,  chocolate,  and  some' 
times  bouillon  for  drinks,  the  latter  served  in  suitable  bowls  set  upon 
plates  or  in  coffee-cups,  with  one  or  two  Italian  breads  laid  in  each 
saucer,  but  no  spoon.  It  is  considered  in  good  form  to  drink  this 
clear  soup  as  one  would  take  tea  from  the  cup  itself. 

Of  course,  it  adds  largely  to  the  labor  in  a  private  home  for  this 
entertainment  to  be  so  varied,  but  it  does  not  increase  its  actual 
cost.  There  is  elegance  in  a  widely  differing  menuy  and  it  requires 
study  to  make  it  harmonious  and  pleasing,  but  it  is  just  as  inexpen- 
sive to  have  the  salads  of  three  varieties  for  a  hundi-ed  guests  as  it 
is  to  make  the  same  quantity  o(  a  single  group  of  materials. 

As  to  other  drinks,  the  good  sense  of  the  hostess  will  determine 
whether  she  should  have  stronger  liquids  than  lemonade  and  sher- 


GARDEN  PARTIES.  643 

bet  for  her  guests,  or,  at  the  most,  a  claret  punch  with  perhaps  a 
flavoriug  of  Chartreuse  or  Champaigne  in  its  ruddy  coolness. 

If  the  entertainment  be  fixed  for  late  hours,  then  cold  salmon 
with  mayonnaise  is  usually  added  to  the  above  list,  and  so  are 
chicken  wings  that  include  parts  of  the  breast  and  are  called  aUes  de 
volatile.  These  can  be  lifted  by  the  fingers.  Smoked  breasts  of 
ducks  that  are  imported  all  prepared  for  eating,  ajidpat^  defoisgras, 
.  etc.,  are  quite  frequently  provided.  There  are  many  Winter  edibles 
which  are  not  served  in  Summer  time,  such  as  oysters,  turkeys, 
grouse,  venison,  etc.  Some  of  these  foods  are  unattainable  in  Sum- 
mer, and  some  of  them  are  unwholesome  or  unsuited  to  hot-weather 
digestion. 

The  refreshments  are  served  both  in  the  house  and  out  of  it,  to 
gratify  the  convenience.     Elderly  people  prefer  the  house,  whUe. 
younger  ones  delight  in  out-door  feastings.     Moon-lighted   senti- 
ment harmonizes  wonderfully  well  with  birds'  breasts  and  tutti 
Jrutti, 

The  hostess  sends  out  her  invitations  about  ten  days  in  advance 
of  the  time  she  has  selected  for  her  party.  Acceptances  or  regrets 
should  be  returned  inmiediately. 

The  costumes  for  such  a  party  should  be  as  airy  and  gay  as  pos- 
sible. Short  dresses  are  the  prevailing  style,  but  trails  are  not  for- 
bidden to  those  who  are  willing  to  accept  the  burden  of  care  that 
is  necessary  to  prevent  their  injury  and  to  keep  them  from  such 
unconscious  feet  as  toiU  trip  in  them.  An  inadvertent  step  by  a 
gentleman  will  sometimes  spoil  his  evening's  pleasure. 

"White  mulls,  French  batistes,  satins.  Surahs,  etc.,  with  gay 
flowers  and  ribbons,  are  the  favorites,  although  quaintly  printed 
foulards,  bedecked  with  cream- white  or  colored  laces,  or  perhaps 
with  embroideries,  are  also  popular.  Pongee  in  its  natural  hues, 
trimmed  with  embroidered  bands  of  the  same,  or  with  omhri  Surah, 
is  lovely  and  fashionable,  and,  besides,  the  soiled  hems  of  this  silk 
may  be  washed  without  revealing  the  fact.  Fancy  cashmere  over- 
dresses, with  short  skirts  of  black  velvet  or  satin,  have  been  used 


644  GARDEN  PARTIES. 

as  garden-party  costumes  for  several  seasons,  and  they  are  still  con> 
sidered  as  fashionable  as  ever.  All  the  changes  that  have  been 
made  in  them,  and  they  are  many,,  are  discoverable  in  the  hues  of 
the  over-dress,  its  much  altered  form,  and  its  decorations. 

The  accessories  of  these  dresses  are  sure  to  change  from  season 
to  season.  This  year  the  bouquet  de  corsage  is  very  large,  and  is 
worn  low  upon  the  breast,  at  the  belt,  or  as  a  garland  about  the 
waist  or  neck.  Field  flowers  are  the  present  favorites.  Clover- 
blossoms,  purple,  red  or  white,  according  to  the  tint  of  the  dress  or 
the  complexion  of  the  wearer,  are  among  the  fashionable  lady's 
present  delights.  Ox-eyed  and  dusky-hearted  daisies  vie  with 
each  other  for  favor.  Brown-headed  grasses  and  meadow-lilies  are 
also  popular  with  tall  ladies,  who  wear  dark  dresses  that  are  en 
train.  For  the  garden  party,  however,  if  the  ground  be  adorned 
with  many  growing  flowers,  it  is  in  better  taste  to  wear  large,  flat 
bows  of  plain  or  omhri  satin  or  satin  Surah  ribbons,  than  flowers 
that  hang  their  ^eads,  and  perhaps  wither  altogether  in  the  presence 
of  their  more  fortunate  ungathered  companions. 

The  hostess  usually  receives  upon  her  veranda,  or  if  her  hall  be 
large,  she  may  welcome  her  guests  at  this  place.  It  is  quite  proper 
for  the  visitor  to  leave  her  wraps,  if  she  have  need  of  such  articles, 
in  the  care  of  her  coachman  or  with  her  maid,  who  may,  perhaps, 
accompany  her  to  care  for  them.  It  has  become  as  much  an^ 
approved  style  for  a  lady  in  grand  toilette  to  ride  without  a  bonnet 
to  a  garden  party,  as  it  is  in  Cuba  for  a  lady  of  fashion  to  take  all 
her  summer  airings  with  no  other  protection  for  her  head  than  a 
parasol.  Of  course,  this  party  must  needs  be  in  the  country,  where 
there  are  not  so  many  persons  to  stare  impertinently  at  a  lady  who- 
rides  forth  in  the  day-time  clothed  for  a  ftte. 

If  a  guest  leaves  early, ^or  very  much  before  the  hour  mentioned 
on  her  invitation  card,  she  does  not  take  leave  of  her  hostess,  but 
goes  away  quietly,  in  order  that  she  may  not  suggest  departure  to* 
other  guests. 


GARDEN  PARTIES. 


545 


The  call  of  ceremony  after  a  garden  party  is  as  imperative  as  if 
the  entertainment  had  been  a  grand  and  formal  dinner,  or  an  even- 
ing of  dancing  and  full  toilette. 

« 

Garden  parties  are  a  branch  of  the  more  comprehensive  "  at 
home,"  and  are  especially  adapted  to  inhabitants  of  suburban  villas 
and  country  residences.  They  seem  to  us  to  be  the  revolt  of  our 
natures  to  the  close  confines  of  the  house  and  the  desire  to  get  out 
into  the  sunlight  and  the  air — ^to  be*  the  simple  picnic  hampered 
with  the  code  which  fashion  imposes  upon  those  of  wealth  and 
position. 


CHAPTER  XLIV. 


CAMPING  OUT 


POOR  woman^  whose  tired  ears  could  not  distinguish  one 
tune  from  another,  and  who  had  been  taught  that  when  she 
became  immortal  her  only  occupation  would  be  to  sing 
hallelujahs,  exclaimed  in  an  ecstacy  of  delight,  "  In  Heaven  I  shall 
do  nothing  forever  and  ever!"  This  feeling  is  not  uncommon  to 
wearied  people  who  are  not  poor,  and  they  believe  firmly  that  they 
also  would  be  happy  in  doing  "nothing  forever  and  ever."  Of 
course,  this  is  but  a  temporary  craving  and  remains  only  while  they 
are  tired  out  with  the  excesses  and  burdens  of  civilization.  These 
are  they  who  should  fly  to  the  wilderness,  taking  along  with  them 
only  those  individuals  without  whom  life  would  not  be  life  at  all; 
«r,  better  still,  who  should  make  a  brief  and  wholesome  separation 
even  from  tbje  dearest,  and  go  away  among  strangers,  just  to  find 
uses  for  awhile  for  another  class  of  sympathies.  Such  an  arrange- 
ment is  quite  equal  to  changing  •  shoulders  when  a  burden  has 
become  too  heavy  for  the  one  who  is  bearing  it  alone. 

If  you  dwell  by  the  sea,  choose  some  inland  spot  of  lonely  loveli- 
ness. If  your  home  is  upon  a  lowland,  climb  a  mountain  when 
your  welcome  hour  for  camping  and  freedom  has  arrived.  Make  a 
literal  and  positive  translation  of  your  locality,  occupations,  modes 
of  dressing,  eating,  sleeping,  and  reading.  If  your  ordinary  exis- 
tence is  spent  among  books,  take  to  boating,  climbing,  and  even  to 
cooking,  rather  than  carrying  along  your  habits  of  prying  into 
scientific  mysteries  or  of  searching  after  the  deep  roots  of  a  dead 
and  dusty  language.     If  you  desire  to  read,  you  must  choose  novels 

546 


CAMPING  OUT.  547 

that  are  composing,  natural,  and  end  up  agreeably.  You  will  dis- 
cover many  a  devoted  story-reader  who  will  tell  you  what  books  to 
procure.  Those  with  sweet,  steady-going  characters,  tfiat  do  not 
harrow  up  your  wearied  and  over-sensitive  nerves,  are  the  best 
healers  and  composers  of  the  jangle  which  has  fallen  upon  your 
system  or  your  brains.  If  your  adviser  is  an  habitual  devour^r  of 
fiction  and  expresses  a  distaste  for  certain  books  because  they  are 
flavorless,  take  our  advice,  and,  whether  you  are  man  or  woman,  be 
sure  to  make  choice  of  these  very  novels,  because  they  are  just 
what  you  really  require  under  the  circumstances.  They  lead  you 
away  from  yourself  through  agreeable  and  slumberous  by-ways 
into  perfect  tranquillity,  which  in  your  working  seasons  you  might 
possibly  consider  only  another  name  for  semi-idiocy. 

The  man  who  is  to  plunge  into  the  woods  and  really  forget  hvn 
worn-out  self,  should  be  sure  not  to  forget  his  worn-out  clothes. 
See  that  your  trowsers  are  easy,  neatly  mended,  strong  as  to  but- 
tons, and  not  too  dark  nor  yet  too  light,  lest  your  sense  of  the  value 
of  cleanliness  make  intimacies  with  mud  too  unpleasantly  noticeable. 
Try  to  imagine  that  you  are  getting  nearer  to  Mother  Nature  and 
are  another  Thoreau,  always  excepting  his  egotism,  which  Heaven 
forbid  should  ever  fall  upon  the  brain  of  another  mortal. 

Should  picturesqueness  be  a  pleasure  to  your  senses,  select  low^ 
easy  shoes,  with  wide,  thick  soles,  and  flat  heels.  Wear  red  or  blue 
stockings  of  woi*sted,  a  gray  mixed  flannel  shirt  or  blouse,  and  a 
broad,  red  or  blue  belt,  according  to  your  hosiery.  Then  get  a  gray, 
soft  felt  hat  with  a  wide  brim,  a  water-proof  Mackintosh  and  a 
woollen  ulster,  and  you  are  dressed.  Of  course,  you  may  carry 
rubber  boots  with  high  tops,  and  a  wat^r-proof  cap  with  an  attached 
Havelock,  so  that  you  can  defy  Jupiter  Pluvius  and  even  the  deluge 
itself  if  it  come  back  and  you  have  not  been  chosen  to  re-enact  the 
^ama  of  Noah  and  his  Ark. 

K  you  are  a  woman,  your  qldest  winter  dress,  abbreviated  at  its 
hem,  re-bound  neatly  and  firmly,  and  loosened  at  its  waist,  should 
be  taken  aloi>\g  for  scrambles  over  muddy  places,  and  for  boatings 


648  CAMPING  OUT. 

when  bailing  out  the  craft  becomes  one  of  the  formalities.  On 
rainy  days  will  this  gown  also  prove  its  loyalty  and  efficiency  for 
yoar  needs.  Then  you  must  have  a  fresh  costume  for  beauty's 
sake,  and  so  that  your  guide  and  cook  (a  combination  of  accom- 
plishments seldom  or  never  dissociated)  will  write  limp-footed  and 
ill-spelled  verses  to  you,  that  shall  combine,  in  about  equal  propor- 
tions, maudlin  sentimentality  and  poor  grammar.  These  droll  apos- 
trophes, generally  inscribed  on  birch  bark,  will  do  you  no  end  of 
good.  You  will  think  better  of  yourself,  and  will  the  easier  over- 
look many  little  culinary  mistakes  which  your  wilderness  adorer 
will  be  sure  to  make  semi-occasionally. 

A  gray  pressed  flannel  that  is  clearly  a  mixture  of  black  and 
white,  a  deep  green  that  is  dark-hued  and  a  first  cousin  to  the  oak- 
leaf,  a  brown  that  learned  to  be  pretty  from  the  deepest  brown  of 
the  chestnut,  and  a  blue  which  the  sailor  dearly  loves,  are  the 
proper  colors  for  gowns  during  a  forest  loitering.  They  may  be 
made  as  gay  as  a  robin  red-breast,  or  even  an  oriole,  with  a  pro- 
priety that  would  turn  upon  itself  in  amazement  in  a  less  free  and 
deliciously  barbaric  life.  Indeed,  it  is  not  in  the  least  extravagant, 
when  preparing  for  camp,  to  remember  how  Helen  Douglas  was 
clothed  when  she  rowed  Fitz-James  across  the  Scottish  waters. 
Plaids,  the  real  tartan,  in  flat  bands  about  the  skirt,  and  a  scarf  or 
sash  tied  or  pinned  ornamentally  to  the  back  of  the  left  shoulder, 
are  always  comely;  and  a  highland  bonnet,  with  a  heron's,  a  cur- 
lew's or  a  peacock's  feather,  is  as  easy  to  the  head  as  it  is  pretty  to 
the  eyes.  Upon  gray  and  blue  cloths,  a  cactus-red,  an  old-gold  or 
a  cardinal  band  of  flannel  may  be  arranged  about  the  skirt;  and  a 
loose  giixlle  of  the  same,  ravelled  at  its  ends  and  bunched  into  a 
tassel,  or  else  hanging  flatly,  is  a  charming  addition  to  the  dress, 
and  may  be  worn  as  a  much-wrinkled  belt  about  the  waist-line  of  a 
blue  blouse.  Instead  of  an  extra  belt  over  that  much  and  justly- 
admired  blouse,  which  is  indiscriminately  called  a  Norfolk  blouse 
and  hunting  jacket,  this  mountaineer's  sash  is  very  charming.  A 
hat  like  the  dress  goods,  with  a  soft  Derby  crown  and  a  brim  that 


CAMPING  OUT.  549 

is  cut  in  sombrero  fashion,  with  a  sufficient  number  of   rows  of 
stitching  about  it  to  hold  it  in  proper  but  not  stiff  position,  is  both 
fashionable  and  comfortable.     Gloves   of  wash-leather,  long  and 
,  loose-wristed,  are  a  comfort  and  a  prettiness;  and,  if  they  be  of 

^  the  natural  yellow  of  their  material,  they  will  not  be  inharmonious 

^  with  any  shade  of  dress  or  decorations.     The  best  gown  is  the  din- 

ner and  Sunday  toilette  of  a  wild-wood  outing. 

A  rubber  cloth  waterproof,  with  a  hood  of  the  same;  an  Ulster 
for  cold  days  and  nights  (it  is  not  unusual  to  sometimes  draw  this 
garment  on  over  a  flannel  night-gown) ;  heavy  woolen  shawls  or 
traveling  rugs  for  extra  lowerings  of  the  mercury;  stout,  low,  flat- 
heeled  shoes  for  climbing;  and  top-boots  of  rubber  for  those  occa- 
sional rainy  days  that  will  come  to  mortals  even  in  the  most  fasci- 
nating of  Arcadias;  and  little  more  is  needed,  save  a  sensible  supply 
of  flannel,  more  or  less  thick,  according  to  latitude,  longitude  and 
altitude.  Fresh  collars  and  handkerchiefs  must  be  numbered  accord- 
ing to  the  domestic  accomplishments  of  the  man-of -all-work. 

Of  course,  it  is  not  against  the  law  to  take  a  serving-woman,  but 
such  feminines  are  liable  to  demand  more  conveniences  and  languish 
with  more  vehement  discontent  in  the  absence  of  civilization  than 
the  mistress  herself.  Indeed,  domestic  appendages  of  this  descrip- 
tion not  infrequently  revolt  determinedly  or  disappear  altogether 
from  the  most  fascinating  of  game  and  trout  dinners  served  d  la 
hemlock  plank,  and  from  couches  of  aromatic  pine-needles  and 
blankets.  Yes,  a  man  is  the  best  helper  in  the  woods,  and,  as  a 
general  thing,  he  really  likes  it. 

Two  tents  are  required,  if  there  be  ladies  in  the  party — and  this 
article  is  written  especially  in  their  interest.  Rubber  pillows,  to  be 
blown  up  at  will,  and  folding  camp-cots  and  camp-chaii*s,  are  luxuries 
that  belong  to  civilization;  and  few  and  happy  are  they  who  are 
willing  to  forego  them.  Ingenious  and  inexpensive  inventions  are 
busy  superseding  fresh  resinous  twigs  for  bedding,  and  "  more's  the 
pity."  Hammocks  are  for  those  who  can  keep  themselves  awake 
during  the  entire  camping  season  in  order  that  they  may  not  fall 


660  CAMPING  OUl 

oat  of  them  while  they  are  asleep.  These  itfticles  are  considen  4 
great  luxuries,  and  certainly  they  are  picturesque,  or  at  least  picto- 
rial wherever  they  are  seen  swaying  between  sun  and  shade  under 
the  great  green  trees.  A  tent  umbrella^  for  peripatetic  camping, 
fishing  or  sketching,  is  a  comfort  during  hot  days,  when  one  must 
needs  go  away  from  the  shade  of  the  woods. 

For  six  people,  the  following  kitchen  articles  are  required:  A 
camp-kettle  with  cover,  for  hot  water;  a  three-quart  coffee-kettle 
and  a  two-quart  tea-pot;  two  bake-pans,  one  frying-pan,  one  water- 
pail,  two  cooking-forks  and  two  cooking-spoons  of  tinned  iron;  and, 
if  the  party  be  very  fastidious,  a  gridiron  will  be  a  boon.  To  broil 
a  bird  or  a  fish,  a  pointed  stick  is  the  woodman's  chief  joy.  Tin 
cups,  to  serve  coffee,  tea  and  water,  are  capable  of  combining  these 
uses  nowhere  else  but  in  the  woods,  so  it  is  claimed;  and  tin  plates 
need  not  be  numerous,  because  a  dinner  eaten  by  a  camp  fire  is  & 
marvel  of  simplicity  and  convenience  as  to  the  order  and  formality 
of  its  courses  of  food.  Knives,  forks  and  spoons  should  be  an 
individual  matter,  each  person  of  the  party  carrying  and  afterward 
oaring  for  his  own  personal  table-cutlery,  just  as  he  looks  after  his 
own  toilette-articles.  The  big  meat-knife  and  fork  serve  as  the 
oarver  and  fork,  and  a  whet-stone,  which  improves  the  hatchet 
that  cuts  and  splits  the  fuel,  is  as  good  and  better  thim  a  pearl- 
handled  steel  for  improving  the  edge.  A  tin  or  hard-wood  pepper- 
box, with  a  salt-box  of  the  same  material  and  perforated  in  the 
same  way  is  very  convenient.  A  large  box  of  pulverized  charcoal 
for  filtering  water  after  rains  is  a  real  luxury,  which  will  add  safety, 
as  well  as  satisfaction  to  drinking  water.  Matches  should  be  kept 
in  corked  bottles,  and  there  should  be  rubber-cloth  sheets  for  use 
during  a  storm  that  refuses  to  keep  out  of  the  tents  while  one  is 
making  the  most  of  a  sleeping  season.  Spread  upon  the  ground, 
when  one  desires  to  lie  prone  upon  one's  back  and  enjoy  long  inter- 
vals of  dreaminess,  with  eyes  wide  open  and  turned  upward  to  the 
blue  that  flickers  through  the  foliage  of  the  trees,  a  rubber  sheet  is 
a  great  comfort 


CAMPING  OUT.  661 

These  things  seem  to  be  many  in  their  enumeration^  but,  after  all, 
they  are  far  less  in  number  and  cost  than  the  gathering  together  of 
annual  pomps  that  are  novel  and  vanities  that  are  expensive,  when 
one  is  going  to  a  resort  of  fashion  at  Midsummer.  And  besides, 
except  one's  wardrobe,  all  these  articles  remain  in  stock  for  years 
to  come.  They  may  be  compactly  arranged  and  safely  and  cheaply 
stored  with  the  guide;  and  if  another  locality  be  chosen  in  other 
years,  these  Summer  needs  may  be  quickly  transferred  by  order 
and  for  a  trifling  outlay  of  expressage  to  some  less  familiar  place. 

You  notice  that  it  is  assumed  as  an  undoubted  certainty  that, 
having  camped  out  one  season,  other  summers  are  sure  to  be  spent 
in  the  same  delightful,  care-forgetting,  health-restoring,  brain- 
repairing  manner. 

The  long  rambles  over  beautiful  wild  spaces,  and,  if  within  reach 
of  water,  the  long  and  strong  pull  upon  the  oars;  the  delicious  airs 
that  blow  from  the  points  of  the  needles;  the  forest  balms;  the  rest 
from  toilsome,  albeit  beautiful,  toilettes;  and  the  calm,  cool  nights 
of  slumber  that  bring  back  youth  and  beauty,  and  with  these  things 
revive  an  interest  in  living — all  these  are  the  reanimating  blessings 
of  a  summer  life  in  the  depths  of  the  forest ! 


i 

L 


CHAPTER  XLV. 


DAUGHTERS. 


HKRE  is  no  mistake  that  a  mother  can  make,  so  fatal  to  a 
daughter's  happiness  or  to  her  chance  of  genuine  success  in 
everything  she  has  to  do,  as  to  educate  her  to  look  down  with 
contempt  upon  the  occupations  of  her  parents,  or  indeed  upon  any 
honest  industry. 

A  mother  may  see  the  disadvantages  of  her  husband's  employ- 
ment, and  may  endeavor  to  bias  the  minds  of  her  sons  toward  other 
tastes  and  sympathies,  but  that  does  not  involve  the  expression  of 
contempt  for  their  father's  toil.  The  latter  may  be  difficult,  uncer- 
tain, or,  perhaps,  insufficient  in  remuneration,  but  nothing  that  is 
useful  is  insignificant  or  dishonorable,  while  the  line  between  the 
respectable  and  contemptible  is  a  distinction  that  should  be  care- 
fully marked. 

To  the  daughter,  no  sentiment  of  disapproval  need  be  expressed. 
That  which  has  provided  bread  and  shelter  for  her  should  be  held 
in  reverence,  even  though  she  may  wish  it  were  by  other  means 
that  her  infancy  was  nourished.  To  regret  and  to  despise  are  not 
at  all  the  same.  One  may  be  inevitable,  the  other  is  not.  If  the 
father's  toil  be  disfiguring,  the  mother  should  teach  the  daughter 
by  example  to  maintain  a  tidiness  and  sweetness  in  all  the  house- 
hold belongings,  and  alway^  have  in  readiness  the  means  for 
refreshing  the  toiler  and  for  removing  the  outer  soilings  of  his 
labor. 

No  honest  occupation  needs  to  bear  an  intellectual,  spiritual  or 
moral  stain,  and  an  earnest  spirit  of  industry  and  an  innate  dainti- 


DAUGHTERS, 


663 


ness  are  quite  capable  of  elevating  the  commonest  of  homes  up  into 
sympathy  with  the  best  refinements  of  living.  A  bit  of  chintz  to 
cover  a  chair  may  be  fitly  chosen,  an  illuminating  print  may  adorn 
the  wall,  and  the  window-hangings  may  be  both  clean  and  graceful 
with  very  little  extra  cost.  The  table-spread  may  be  fresh  and 
wholesome.  The  arrangement  of  the  simplest  of  food  may  be 
orderly  and  attractive  to  the  eye.  A  pot  of  flowers,  blooming  in 
the  window,  gets  the  sunshine  and  air  without  money,  and  tidiness 
consecrates  and  makes  attractive  the  plainest  of  apartments.  Pov- 
erty is  never  dishonorable.  Uncleanliness  and  disorder  are  a  dis- 
grace for  which  sickness  is  the  only  apology.  Not  only  teach  this 
early  to  the  daughter,  but  show  her  by  example  how  to  charm  a 
small  income  to  appear  as  if  it  were  plenty. 

This  urgent  appeal  is  the  consequence  of  a  recent  experience,  the 
like  of  which  makes  good  mothers  tremble,  provided  they  are  able 
to  see  the  end  from  the  beginning.  It  occurred  in  a  fashionable 
shop,  at  an  hour  of  the  day  when  but  few  demands  were  being 
made  upon  the  young  woman-clerks.  She  was  a  very  pretty  girl, 
with  her  rich  hair  banged,  a  gilt  comb  in  her  coil,  not  too  few  and 
not  too  fresh  ribbons  all  a-flutter  upon  her  cheap  but  showy  dress, 
with  ear-rings,  bangles,  and  gaudy,  cheap,  and  crumpled  artificial 
flowers  that  served  her  as  a  baitquet  de  corsage.  She  was  posed 
with  crossed  hands  and  curved  wrists,  while  she  related  to  her 
scarce  less  unattractively  dressed  but  equally  pretty  companion,  her 
experience  of  the  night  before. 

"  Oh  I  it  was  just  too  awfully  mean  for  anything.  We  were  kept 
here  over  time  last  night,  you  know,  and  I  had  accepted  an  invi- 
tation from  you  know  who,  to  go  to  a  regimental  promenade  con- 
cert. Don't  know  who  ?  Of  course  you  do;  just  as  well  as  I  do, 
which  isn't  saying  much.  He  told  me  to  call  him  Charley,  though 
I  heard  some  of  the  fellows  speak  to  him  as  Frederick,  but  I  wasn't 
going  to  anger  him  by  letting  him  know  that  I  heard  it — ^not  L  I 
am  too  glad  to  have  such  a  nice  fellqw  to  take  me  out  and  feed  me 
on  cream  and  fetch  me  gloves  and  candy. 


664  DAUOHTBRa 

**  Well,  as  I  was  telling  you,  we  were  kept  here  so  late  that  when 
Charley  came  for,  me  to  go,  I  had  not  even  dressed  my  hair,  and  he 
knocked  at  our  apartment  door,  somebody  having  sent  him  ap- 
stairs.  Here  he  was,  and  do  you  believe  it,  he  had  come  for  me  in 
a  coop  {coupi)y  and  coop  and  all  was  waiting;  and  what  were  we 
to  do  but  to  ask  him  to  come  into  our  rooms;  and  they  are  always 
in  such  a  state,  you  know,  like  other  poor  folks,  I  suppose;  and  I 
was  mortified  to  death.  The  table  looked  just  awful,  and  mother 
was  trying  to  get  the  baby  to  sleep,  and  father  was  cross  and  not 
washed  up,  and  there  was  not  a  chair  empty  in  the  room.  I  just 
wished  I  was  dead  and  buried,  but  I  had  to  get  ready  all  the  same, 
and  when  I  went  out  of  that  house  in  my  blue  silk  dress  and  white 
bonnet,  nobody  but  Charley  would  have  suspected  my  father 
worked  in  the  gas-house — ^indeed  they  wouldn't,  and  I  don't  mean 
that  they  shall  find  it  out,  if  I  can  prevent  it. 

'^Wasn't  it  too  bad  that  Charley  should  find  out?  But  then  he 
was  nice  about  it  and  did  not  say  anything  untfl  I  said  how  morti- 
fied I  was  because  father  would  do  such  low  work.  Mother  hates 
it  too,  and  its  no  wonder  she  don't  care  how  she  looks  and  how  the 
house  looks.  Father  toiU  go  to  the  saloon  when  supper  is  over. 
He  says  he  hates  a  house  that  is  always  in  a  rumpus — but'  it  isn't, 
any  more  than  the  gas-house  where  he  stays  all  day.  If  he  had 
any  pride,  he  would  do  something  nice,  such  as  keeping  a  livery 
stable,  or  a  billiard  saloon,  and  then  his  hands  wouldn't  be  black 
and  his  clothes  dirty,  and  Charley  wouldn't  be  ashamed  to  know 
him.  Charley  said  I  needn't  live  in  that  bedlam  if  I  didn't  want 
to,  and  I  don't,  and  I  said  so,  but  he  didn't  say  how  he  meant  to 
change  my  circumstances,  but  I  can  guess,  can't  you  ?" 

"  Why,  he  means  to  marry  you,  of  course." 

'^  I  suppose  so,  but  he  hasn't  said  so  yet." 

Poor  little  idiot  I  He  will  never  say  it,  or,  if  he  does,  he  will 
fail  to  keep  his  word.  When  girls  do  not  respect  themselves  and 
their  homes,  they  must  not  look  for  respect  from  others.  If  the 
mother  had  kept  a  tidy  home,  the  daughter  would  not  have  beea 


DAUGHTERa  555 

ashamed  to  invite  any  person  to  enter  it.  She  would  not  have 
opened  the  way  for  expressions  of  an  insulting,  and  perhaps,  fatal 
sympathy.  She  would  not  have  spent  her  earnings  in  a  fanciful 
dress  and  bonnet  if  she  had  been  taught  to  divide  her  income  with 
the  home  purse,  and  to  lend  touches  of  refinement  and  useful  evi- 
dences of  thrift  to  the  household.  If  the  mother  expressed  no 
contempt  for  the  father,  the  daughter  would  have  nourished  none; 
and  one  requires  no  spirit  of  prophecy  to  discover  the  doom  of  that 
girl  in  the  very  near  future. 

To  make  the  most  of  what  one  has  and  is,  is  the  surest  and  safest 
way  of  growing  up  to  something  better  and  higher.  There  is  no 
such  certain  and  speedy  road  to  ruin  for  daughters,  yes,  and  for 
sons  aldo,  as  to  educate  them  in  a  manner  that  will  give  them  false 
pride.  A  genuine  development  of  the  mind  and  heart  has  very 
different  results.  It  is  in  a  superficiality  of  many  acquirements  that 
danger  lies,  and  it  is  through  a  paltry  pride  that  girls  learn  to  play 
the  piano  badly,  paint  trashy  pictures,  and  sing  cheap  songs  in  a 
cheap  style,  when  a  little  serious  instruction  in  something  within 
their  mental  capacities  and  their  purses  would  have  been  certain  to 
provide  them  with  positions  of  respect  and  usefulness. 

In  these  days  of  highly  finished  artists  in  all  the  accomplishments, 
it  is  money  thrown  away  to  half -learn  anything.  The  result  only 
exhibits  how  little,  rather  than  how  much,  a  girl  knows.  She  feels 
a  contempt  for  herself  when  in  the  presence  of  her  superiors  in 
attainments,  and  they  feel  a  contempt  for  her  because  she  attempted 
what  she  failed  to  finish. 

If  there  were  no  false  standards  of  living,  no  false  estimates  of 
the  dignity  of  labor,  these  things  could  not  be.  What  woman,  who 
has  reached  an  age  when  she  can  judge  of  the  values  of  things, 
would  not  rather  be  a  skilled  dressmaker,  or  an  accomplished 
milliner,  than  a  young  person  who  > teaches  the  rudiments  of  music 
to  insubordinate  children,  or  gives  ill-paid  lessons,  in  an  almost  a& 
poor  a  style,  in  china-painting?  The  latter  calls  and  probably 
deems  her  toil  intellectual,  but  there  are  no  such  miserable  drudges 


^■ 


f» 


556 


DAUGHTERS. 


within  the  bounds  of  civilization  as  half -educated  instructors  in 
what  is  called  the  fine  arts. 

If  you  teach  your  daughters  to  aim  high,  be  altogether  certain 
that  they  are  possessed  of  the  power  to  reach  their  object,  and 
equally  sure  that  you  will  have  the  means  to  complete  what  you 
undertake  for  them.  If  they  are  cajrefully  educated  in  all  those 
practical  things  which  a  woman  should  know,  and  their  school  life 
be  not  shortened  for  vanity's  sake,  or  for  some  short-sighted  esti- 
mate of  what  is  desirable,  and  there  really  is  talent  or  genius  in 
their  brains,  the  mother  need  give  herself  no  anxious  thoughts 
about  it,  because  superior  capacities  will  surely  find  methods  by 
which  to  express  themselves.  Be  content  with  that  certainty. 
They  may  smoulder  for  a  time,  but  they  will  blaze  at  last. 


CHAPTER  XLVI. 


HOUSE  PAINTINa 


IHE  following  receipts  and  directions  are  condensed  from  a 
practical  English  work  on  the  art  of  house  painting.  They 
are  principally  designed  for  the  inexperienced  and  those  who, 
living  at  a  distance  from  the  cities,  have  great  difficulty  in 
obtaining  first-class  workmen. 

To  make  work  satisfactory,  it  is  very  necessary  for  the  workman 
to  have  very  clean  all  the  vessels,  brushes  and'^cans  he  may  require 
in  the  course  of  his  work,  such  as  the  various  pails,  pots  or  vessels 
in  which  he  mixes  or  from  which  he  uses  his  colors.  These  are 
sometimes  bought  at  the  shops,  handsomely  made  of  stout  tin, 
and  such  are  easily  kept  clean,  and  save  their  expense  in  color, 
which  is  readily  brushed  down  their  smooth  sides.  He  will  also 
require  a  marble  slab  and  muller,  to  grind  the  finer  colors  used  in 
painting.  Sometimes  a  small  cast-iron  mill  is  useful  not  only  to 
grind  colors,  but  to  pass  the  tinted  color  through,  so  that  it  may  be 
more  thoroughly  mixed. 

It  is  presumed  the  workman  will  know  what  brushes  ho  will 
require,  according  to  the  work  he  has  in  hand. 

In  preparing  to  paint  a  good  dwelling,  after  having  obtained  the 
necessary  colors  and  brushes,  see  that  you  have  a  few  pounds  of 
good  pumice  stone,  a  quire  or  two  of  assorted  sand  paper,  to 
smooth  the  inequalities  of  the  work;  some  twenty  pounds  of  putty, 
to  stop  up  after  the  first  coat  in  every  part  of  the  house;  a  suffici- 
ency of  fine  slacked  lime,  and  a  proper  number  of  large  and  small 

667 


^     I 


558  HOUSE  PAINTING. 

vessels  in  which  to  mix  the  colors,  and  from  which  to  use  them;  a 
few  pounds  of  soaked  glue,  &c. 

If  the  wood-work  be  new,  and  no  wall-work  required,  you  will 
go  oyer  it  carefully  with  a  small  brush  and  some  of  the  glue  size, 
colored  with  red  lead,  covering  what  knots  and  stains  may  appear 
in  the  wood,  after  which  the  priming  coat  of  almost  all  oil  and 
good  white  lead,  tinted  with  Indian  red,  should  be  evenly  brushed 
over  the  work;  and,  as  soon  as  dry,  the  putty  knife  and  putty 
should  follow,  to  stop  all  the  cracks  and  nail  holes.  Then  should 
follow  the  second  coat,  with  a  little  spirits  of  turpentine  in  the  oil, 
and  the  color  slightly  tinged  with  blue  black.  This  is  generally 
thought  sufficient  for  the  attic  and  third  stories.  But  the  rest  of 
the  house  is  usually  finished  with  old  ground  white  lead,  thinned 
with  spirits  of  turpentine.  The  roof,  if  covered  with  tin,  should 
be  painted  once  in  three  years.  There  are  many  different  methods 
in  use.  Some  paint  with  raw  oil,  dry  Spanish  brown  and  a  little 
red  lead,  to  dry  it,. for  fear  of  a  rain;  others,  with  Spanish  brown, 
more  red  lead,  and  half  whale  oil  with  the  linseed  oil;  others  use 
yellow  ochre  and  black,  mixed  in  the  same  oils;  others  use  a  paint 
made  by  boiling  paint  skins  and  whale  oil,  and  carefully  straining 
them  while  warm,  reserving  the  remaining  skins,  to  stop  the  leaks 
around  chimneys  and  dormer  windows.  This  last  mentioned  paint 
is  probably  serviceable  from  its  elasticity.  In  the  country,  many 
paint  their  roofs  and  outbuildings  in  the  same  way,  using  some- 
times Venetian  red  from  its  brightness. 

Many  complaints  are  continually  made  that  white  lead  and  colors 
composed  thereof  do  not  endure,  and  are  quickly  beaten  off  by 
exposure  to  the  sun  and  rain.  This  difficulty  occurs  as  much  from 
the  manner  of  using  the  paint  as  from  its  quality.  As  this  occurs 
in  outside  work,  it  is  to  be  attributed,  first,  to  the  condition  of  the 
work  to  be  painted,  being  generally  in  such  a  state  as  to  absorb  the 
oil  from  the  first  coat,  thereby  leaving  it  in  a  dusty  state,  and  liable 
to  be  washed  off  by  the  first  rain.  This  can  be  guarded  against 
only  by  filling  the  old  work,  in  painting  two  thin  coats  over  it,  one 


HOUSE  PAINTING  659 

upon  the  other,  as  soon  as  dry,  and  finishing  it  with  one  thicker 
coat,  to  protect  it  and  shed  the  rain.  -A  fourth  coat,  if  the  imme- 
diate expense  is  not  heeded,  will  repay  its  cost  in  additional  service 
and  beauty. 

The  white  lead  can  be  procured  of  any  requisite  quality  at  the 
color  stores.  It  is  thought  that  the  best  article  is  the  most  econom- 
ical, as  it  works  out  with  more  ease,  and  repays  the  difference  of 
cost  in  it9  appearance.  Linseed  oil  is  also  better  for  having  due 
age,  for  the  same  reason  as  the  white  lead,  working  with  softness 
and  advantage  after  parting  with  the  water  which  is  generally  com- 
bined with  new  oil. 

The  quality  and  fineness  of  the  white  lead  used  adds  materially 
to  the  work,  and  that  which  Is  well  ground,  and  has  such  mellow- 
ness from  age  as  will  cause  it  to  work  smoothly  under  the  brush  in 
connection  with  good  linseed  oil,  will  certainly  repay  any  reasonable 
additional  cost.  The  first  coats  should  always  be  mixed  with  clear 
linseed  oil;  the  fourth  coat  may  be  used  with  boUed  oil  and  one- 
quarter  part  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Putty  is  best  purchased  at  a  good  color  store,  where  you  can 
depend  upon  its  being  made  of  good  dry  whitening  and  linseed  oil 
It  should  be  carefully  and  freely  used  after  the  work  has  had  one 
<5oat.  of  paint,  for  the  fresh  paint  holds  the  putty  very  firmly. 

Habmoitt  op  Colors. — Red  looks  well  with  black,  white  or  yel- 
low. Blue  harmonizes  with  white  or  yellow.  Green  with  white, 
black  or  yellow.  Gold  with  black  or  brown.  White  appears  well 
with  any  color. 

MIXING  PAINTS. 

A  Beautiful  White  Paint. — ^For  inside  work,  which  ceases  to 
smell  and  dnes  in  a  few  hours.  Add  one  pound  of  frankincense  to 
two  quarts  of  spirits  of  turpentine;  dissolve  it  over  a  clear  fire, 
strain  it,  and  bottle  it  for  use;  then  add  one  pint  of  this  mixture  to 
f  mir  pints  of  bleached  linseed  oil,  shake  them  well  together,  grind 
white  lead  in  spirits  of  turpentine  and  strain  it,  then  add  sufficient 


660 


HOUSE  PAINTING. 


of  the  lead  to  make  it  proper  for  painting;  if  too  thick  in  using, 
thin  with  turpentine,  it  being  suitable  for  the  best  internal  work  oa 
account  of  its  superiority  and  expense. 

Foe  a  Pubb  White  Paint — Nut  oil  is  the  best;  if  linseed  oil 
is  used,  add  one-third  of  turpentine. 

To  Mix  Common  White  Paint. — Mix  or  grind  white  lead  in 
linseed  oil  to  the  consistency  of  paste,  add  turpentine  in  the  pro- 
portion  of  one  quart  to  a  gallon  of  oil;  but  these  proportions  must 
be  varied  according  to  circumstances.  Remember  to  strain  your 
color  for  the  better  sorts  of  work.  If  the  work  is  exposed  to  the 
sun,  use  more  turpentine  for  the  ground  color  to  prevent  its  blis- 
tering. 

Foe  Knotting. — Mix  white  or  red  lead  powder  in  strong  glue 
size  and  apply  it  warm. 

Common  Flesh  Colob. — Stain  your  white  lead  with  red  lead,  and 
mix  with  oil  and  turps. 

Fine  Flesh  Colob. — It  is  composed  of  white  lead,  lake  and 
vermilion. 

A  Beautiful  Colob  fob  Cabbiaqbs,  Ac. — Mix  carmine  lake 
with  black  japan. 

Cbeam  Colob. — This  is  a  mixture  of  chrome  yellow,  the  best  Eng- 
lish Venetian  red,  white  lead,  and  red  lead  in  oil. 

Peabl  Gbay. — White  lead,  with  equal  portions  of  Prussian  blue 
and  lampblack,  mixed  with  oil  and  turps. 

Fawn  Colob. — Grind  some  burnt  and  raw  terra  sienna  very  fine. 
Two  or  three  pounds  of  this  is  sufficient  to  stain  white  lead  for  a 
large  building.  This  color  is  of  a  superior  shade,  and  very  excel- 
lent for  inside  work. 

Blue. — Grind  Prussian  blue  in  turps;  other  blue  very  fine  in 
linseed  oil,  and  mix  it  with  white  paint  to  the  tint  required. 

Buff. — This  is  a  mixture  of  French  yellow,  chrome  yellow  an3 
white  lead,  tinged  with  a  little  Venetian  red,  oil  and  turps. 


HOUSE  PAINTING.  661 

Straw. — ^A  mixture  of  chrome  yellow  and  white  lead,  oil  and 
tnrps. 

D&AB. — ^Raw  and  burnt  umber  and  white  lead,  with  a  little  Vene- 
tian red,  linseed  oil  and  turps.  Another. — Burnt  umber  and  white 
lead,  with  a  little  Venetian  red,  oil  and  turps,  as  before. 

Steel. — ^Mix  white  lead,  Prussian  blue,  fine  lake  and  verdigris, 
in  such  proportions  as  to  produce  the  required  color. 

Purple. — White  lead,  Prussian  blue  and  vermilion,  or  lake  with 
oil  and  turps. 

Violet. — ^Is  composed  of  vermilion,  mixed  with  blue-black  and  a 
little  white. 

French  Grey. — White  lead  and  Prussian  blue,  tinged  with  ver- 
milion; and  for  the  last  coat  substitute  carmine  for  the  vermilion. 
Mix  with  oil  and  turps.   - 

Silver. — ^Use  white  lead,  indigo,  and  a  small  portion  of  blue- 
black,  as  the  shade  may  require. 

Gold. — Mix  Naples  yellow  or  patent  yellow  with  a  small  quantity 
of  orange  chrome  and  a  little  Spanish  white. 

Dark  Chestkut. — ^Mix  red  ochre  and  black.  Use  yellow  ochre 
when  you  require  to  lighten  the  color,  in  oil. 

Salmon. — White  lead,  tinged  with  the  best  English  Venetian 
red,  oil  aud  turps. 

Peach  Blossom. — White  lead,  tinged  with  orpiment;  mixed  with 
oil  and  turps. 

Drab. — White  lead  with  a  little  Prussian  blue  and  French  yellow, 
linseed  oil  and  turps.  Another, — White  lead  with  a  little  French 
yellow  and  lampblack,  linseed  oil  and  turps.  Another. — White 
lead  with  a  little  chrome  green  and  blue-black.  ^ 

Lead. — This  is  a  mixture  of  lampblack  and  white  lead,  with  a 
little  litharge. 


662  HOUSE  PAINTING. 

Chocolatb. — Mix  lampblack  and  Venetian  red  with  a  little  red 
lead,  or  litharge,  to  harden  the  color  and  give  a  drying  quality. 
The  colors  must  be  ground,  and  mixed  with  boiled  oil  and  a  little 
turps. 

Dabk  Red,  fob  Common  Pubposes. — ^Mix  English  Venetian  red 
in  boiled  oil  with  a  little  red  lead  and  litharge,  to  give  a  drying 
quality. 

Obangb. — Mix  red  lead  and  French  yellow  with  linseed  oil  and 
turps,  or  use  deep  chrome  yellow. 

Bbight  Yellow  fob  Floobs,  Etc. — White  lead  and  linseed  oil 
mixed  with  some  French  yellow,  and  a  little  chrome  yellow  to 
brighten  it;  some  red  lead,  burnt  white  vitrei  and  litharge  added 
to  it  to  give  it  a  very  drying  quality.  This  color  mixed  with  equal 
parts  of  boiled  oil  and  turpentine,  and  used  very  thin. 

Dabk  Yellow. — ^Mix  French  yellow  in  boiled  oil,  adding  to  it  a 
little  red  lead  and  litharge,  to  give  the  paint  a  drying  quality. 

Light  Yellow. — ^This  is  a  mixture  of  French  yellow,  chrome 
yellow  and  white  lead,  with  oil  and  turps.  Another. — French  yel- 
low, white  lead  and  red  lead.  Another. — Grind  raw  terra  sienna 
in  turps  and  linseed  oil;  mix  with  white  lead.  If  the  color  is 
required  of  a  warmer  cast,  add  a  little  burnt  terra  sienna  ground  in 
turps. 

Olive  Gbeen. — ^A  suitable,  cheap,  and  handsome  color  for  out- 
side work,  such  as  doors,  carts,  wagons,  etc. 

Grind  separately  Prussian  blue  and  French  yellow  in  boiled  oil, 
then  mix  to  the  tint  required  with  a  little  burnt  white  vitrei  to  act 
as  a  drier.  Another. — Black  and  blue  mixed  with  yellow,  in  such 
quantities  as  to  obtain  the  colors  or  shades  required.  For  distemper, 
use  indigo  ani yellow  pink  mixed  with  whiting  or  white  lead  pow- 
der. Another. — ^This  is  a  mixture  of  Prussian  blue,  French  yellow, 
a  small  portion  of  Turkey  umber,  and  a  little  burnt  vitrei.  Ground 
the  same  way.     Another  in  oil. — ^Mlx  Prussian  blue  and  chrome 


HOUSE  PAINTING.  663 

yellow.  Grind  the  same.  Another  shade. — A  mixtare  of  Prussian 
blue  and  French  yellow,  with  a  small  quantity  of  white  lead  and 
Turkey  umber  and  burnt  white  vitriol.     Grind  the  same. 

Light  Gbben. — White  mixed  with  verdigris.  A  variety  of 
shades  may  be  obtained  by  using  blue  and  yellow  with  white  lead. 

Gbass  Gbeen. — ^Yellow  mixed  with  verdigris.  Another. — Mix 
one  pound  of  verdigris  with  two  pounds  of  white  lead.  Walnut 
oil  is  the  best  for  this  purpose. 

Invisible  Gbeen,  fob  Outside  Wobk. — Mix  lamp-black  and 
French  yellow,  with  burnt  white  vitriol.  These  colors  mix  in  boiled 
oil.  Burnt  vitriol  is  the  best  drier  for  greens,  as  it  is  powerful  and 
colorless,  and  consequently  will  not  injure  the  color. 

To  Paikt  a  Bbon2UB. — Grind  good  black  with  chrome  yellow  and 
boiled  oil;  apply  it  with  a  brush,  and  when  nearly  dry  use  the 
bronze  powder  at  certain  parts  and  the  edges  also;  the  effect  will 
be  a  brassy  hue. 

A  Good  Imitation  op  Gold. — Mix  white  lead,  chrome  yellow, 
and  burnt  sienna,  until  the  proper  shade  is  obtained. 

Tab  Paint  fob  Fences,  Roofs,  Etc. — Common  tar  mixed  with 
whiting.  Venetian  red  or  French  yellow,  according  to  the  color 
required.  This  should  be  warmed  in  a  large  iron  kettle  in  the 
open  air,  and  applied  with  a  large  painting  brush.  It  is  an  excel- 
lent preservative  of  the  wood,  and  looks  well  for  rough  work. 

Paint  Dbibbs. — Litharge. — This  is  a  useful  drier,  and  may  be 
used  in  all  kinds  of  paints,  except  greens  and  very  delicate  colors. 
White  Vitriol  or  Copperas. — ^This  turns  into  water,  especially  when 
used  in  black  paints;  and  is  almost  useless  for  any  color  till  the 
water  of  crystallization  is  evaporated,  and  then  it  become  a  power- 
ful dryer,  and  may  be  used  for  every  delicate  color,  as  it  is  perfectly 
transparent;  but  when  used  in  its  raw  state  in  white  paint,  has  the 
effect  of  turning  it  yellow.  Sugar  of  Lead. — This  is  a  very  useful 
and  transparent  drier,  not  so  powerful  as  white  vitriol,  but  it  may 
be  used  with  it  to  advantage. 


664  HOUSE  PAINTINO. 

Milk  Paint  fob  Indoor  Work. — The  quantity  for  one  handred 
square  feet:  One  quart  of  skimmed  milk,  three  ounces  of 
lime,  three  ounces  of  Jinseed  or  poppy  oil,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  Spanish  white  or  whiting.  Put  the  lime  into  a 
clean  bucket,  add  sufficient  of  the  milk  to  slake  the  lime, 
add  the  oil  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  stirring  the  mixture  with  a 
flat  stick  till  the  whole  of  the  oil  is  incorporated  in  the  mass;  then 
add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  afterwards  the  Spanish  white 
or  whiting,  finely  powdered,  and  sifted  gently  over  the  mixture  by 
degrees.  Curded  milk  will  do  for  the  purpose,  but  it  must  not  be 
sour.  One  coat  of  this  will  do  for  ceilings  and  stair-cases  in  gen- 
eral; two  coats  or  more  for  new  wood.  Where  color  is  required^ 
you  may  use  powdered  umber,  ochres,  chromes,  greens,  blues,  pinks^ 
etc.,  etc.,  ground  in  milk.  For  particular  work,  strain  the  color 
through  a  hair  sieve. 

Lime  Whitewash. — Lime  whitewash  is  made  from  lime  well 
slaked.  Dissolve  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  alum  in  boiling  water, 
and  add  it  to  every  pailful  of  whitewash.  Lime  whitewash  should 
be  used  very  thin,  and  when  it  is  sufficiently  bound  on  the  wall  by 
means  of  alum,  two  thin  coats  will  cover  the  work  better.  Most 
whitewashers  apply  their  wash  too  thick,  and  do  not  mix  a  propor- 
tionate quantity  of  alum  to  bind  it,  consequently  the  operation  of 
the  brush  rubs  of  the  first  coat  in  various  parts  and  leaves  an  uneven 
surface,  and  the  original  smooth  surface  of  the  wall  is  entirely 
destroyed. 

Italian  Mabble.— This  looks  bold,  and  is  well  adapted  for 
columns,  etc.,  and  is  easy  to  imitate.  The  ground  a  light  buflf. 
For  the  graining  colors,  prepare  a  rich,  warm  buff,  made  in  the 
following  manner.  Mix  stiff  in  boiled  oil,  white  lead  and  good  stone 
ochre,  and  tinge  with  vermilion,  then  grind  some  burnt  terra  sienna 
very  fine  in  boiled  oil,  and  put  it  into  another  pot;  mix  some  pure 
white  stiff  in  oil,  and  keep  this  separate.  Thin  these  colors  with 
turpentine,  have  ready  a  brush  for  the  buff  and  another  for  the 
terra  sienna.     Proceed  to  work  as  follows:  Take  the  brush  intended 


HOUSE  PAINTING.  665 

w 

for  the  buff  moderately  full  of  color,  and  dab  it  on  freely  and  care- 
fully in  different  patches,  some  of  them  larger  than  others,  and 
Yar3nng  them  as  much  as  possible.  When  these  are  laid  on,  take 
the  other  brush  and  fill  in  with  the  terra  sienna  the  spaces  between; 
as  soon  as  this  is  done,  take  a  dry  duster  or  softener  and  blend  the 
edges  together,  making  it  appear  as  soft  as  possible.  Proceed  in 
this  manner  till  the  whole  is  finished,  then  take  a  hair  pencil  and 
draw  a  few  thin  white  veins  over  the  work,  varying  them  as  much 
as  is  necessary;  take  another  pencil  for  the  ten*a  sienna,  and  run  a 
few  thin  lines  intermixing  with  the  whole;  varnish  when  dry. 

To  Imitate  Granite. — For  the  ground  color,  stain  your  white 
lead  to  a  light  lead  color,  with  lampblack  and  a  little  rose-pink. 
Throw  on  black  spots  with  a  graniting  machine,  and  fill  up  with  the 
white  a  little  before  the  ground  is  dry. 

A  Cheap  Oak  Varnish. — ^Two  quarts  of  boiled  oil,  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  litharge,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  gum  shellaa 
All  boiled  together  and  stirred  up  till  dissolved,  then  take  off  the 
fire  and  add  two  quarts  of  turps.  When  settled,  strain  into  a  bottle 
and  cork  for  use. 

Common  Oil  Varnish.— Take  one  gallon  of  quick-drying  oil, 
two  pounds  of  resin,  and  one  quart  of  turpentine;  put  the  resin 
with  the  drying  oil  into  a  varnish  kettle,  and  let  it  dissolve  in  a 
gentle  heat;  take  it  from  the  fire  and  gradually  pour  in  the  spirits 
of  turpentine.     If  too  thick  add  more  of  the  turpentine. 

Transparent  Varnish  for  Pictures. — Take  the  white  of  four 
eggs  and  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar;  beat  them  up  in  lime  water  to 
the  proper  consistency  of  varnishing. 

For  Varnishing  on  Wood,  Unpainted.— Quarter  of  a  pint  of 
wood  naphtha,  quarter  of  a  pint  of  s])irits  of  wine,  four  ounces  of 
benzoin,  four  ounces  of  orange  shellac,  added  all  together.  If  not 
thick  enough  with  those  ingredients  for  your  purpose,  add  more  of 
the  gums  benzoin  and  shellac. 


C6C  HOUSP  PAINTINQ. 

Watbrpboop  Vaemish,  foe  Linkn  oe  Cauco. — One  p 
pentiDe,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  linseed  oil,  seven  ounces  c 
one  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead.  Strain  it,  apply  with  a  bnut 
in  the  son  or  in  a  warm  place. 

tifSTBucTioMs. — Oil  of  turpentine  desdena  the  oolor 
nmishes,  copal,  eta,  brighten  the  color. 


r~    'T' 


'r:,-;»Tj-%l_jsr  ^ 


.^AJ 


I     I 


CHAPTER  XLVII. 


THE    CARE    OF    THE    HAIR. 

HE  hair,  to  be  beautiful,  must  not  only  be  thick  and  long,  but 
fine,  silky  and  glossy — effects  that  are  only  produced  by  con- 
stant care.  Women,  who  do  not  possess  the  crowning  glory 
of  a  fine  head  of  hair,  are  the  ones  who  most  quickly  notice  the 
great  ornament  it  is  to  other  women,  so  that  one  cannot  but  wonder 
that  they  dio  not  attempt  to  improve  that  which  they  have,  or  try 
the  sensible  French  expedient  of  making  the  best  of  it.  Too  often 
beauty  h  lost  because  it  is  not  cultivated,  for  if  it  were  developed 
as  far  as  possible,  ugly  girls  would  soon  grow  to  be  exceptional.  Each 
nation  could  tell  the  seeker  after  the  beautiful  some  recipe  by  which 
they  jgained  the  admiration  of  the  world  for  the  specialty  in  form, 
figure  or  coloring  that  has  become  synonymous  with  their  woman- 
kind.      N 

Physiologists  say  that  each  hair  is  a  bulb,  having  in  its  center  a 
hollow  tube,  through  which  it  is  probable  common  atmospheric  air 
passes.  At  the  bottom  of  the  bulb,  the  nucleus  of  which  is  a  sort  of 
bag,  there  is  an  opening  connected  with  very  minute  vessels  resem- 
bling roots.  Each  bulb  possesses  a  separate  minute  artery  of  its 
own,  and  consequently  a  vein  and  a  nerve.  When  a  hair  is  pulled 
out,  pain  is  prodxiced,  which  shows  the  bulb  is  in  direct  communi- 
cation with  a  nerve  and  consequently  with  an  artery.  So,  as  the 
hair  springs  from  the  skin  and  is  nourished  therefrom,  one  of  the 
greatest  helps  towards  having  beautiful  hair  is  to  keep  the  skin  in 
good  order.  If  the  skin  is  in  an  unhealthy  condition,  the  hair  falls 
out  and  breaks  easily;  but  if  a  healthy  vascular  action  is  maintained, 
the  hair  is  strengthened. 


T 


668  THE  CARE  OF  THE  HAIR 

Sometimes  the  epidermal  scales  are  allowed  to  aocamulate  until 
they  are  difficult  to  remove,  and  they  then  become  the  greatest 
enemy  of  lovely  locks.  To  prevent  this,  a  stiff  brush  should  be 
freely  employed  two  or  three  times  a  day,  and  the  use  o£  a  fine 
comb  should  be  avoided.  A  wash  that  will  remove  this  growth 
(commonly  called  dandruff)  is  as  follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  up  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  have  the  mixture  well  rubbed 
into  the  head  with  the  fingers,  until  a  slight  redness  is  apparent. 
Wash  the  mixture  off  thoroughly  with  lukewarm  water.  Much 
care  must  be  exercised  in  preparing  this,  so  that  none  of  the  white 
of  the  egg  be  allowed  to  enter  in  the  compound,  for  it  will  make 
the  hair  stiff  and  be  found  very  troublesome  to  remove. 

When  the  hair  is  lost  by  sickness  or  becomes  thin  and  dry  from 
some  unknown  cause,  no  greater  mistake  can  be  made  than  having 
it  shaved  off.  Much  questioning  has  proved  the  fallacy  of  the  belief 
that  it  will  grow  in  again  fine  and  thick;  the  growth  is  usually 
slow,  and  the  hair  seldom  attains  the  length  it  had  before.  The 
heat  of  the  cap  worn  during  the  time  it  is  short  has  doubtless  much 
to  do  with  this  result,  but  even  if  a  cap  is  not  worn,  it  is  not  advis- 
able to  shave  the  hair.  Instead,  let  it  be  cut  tolerably  short,  the 
skin  of  the  head  kept  in  a  healthy  condition  and  no  false  hair  worn 
to  impede  the  growth  by  heating  the  head. 

The  Germans,  who  usually  have  handsome  hair,  attribute  it  to  the 
fact  that  they  never  cut  a  child's  hair,  but  simply  trim  the  ends  and 
'  allow  it  to  hang  for  a  long  time  in  soft,  smooth  braids.  The  (xeor- 
gians  and  Greeks  plait  the  hair,  and,  as  soon  as  it  is  sufficiently  long, 
attach  an  iron  weight  to  each  braid,  increasing  the  size  of  the 
weight  as  the  hair  grows.  They  have  hair  of  wonderful  length, 
and  as  the  head  is  carried  very  erect,  in  consequence  of  the  weight, 
a  graceful,  dignified  carriage  is  attained.  A  few  drops  of  ammonia 
— that  household  fairy — in  the  clear  water  used  in  washing  the  hair 
will  be  found  to  keep  the  ends  from  splitting.  If,  however,  the 
hair  falls  out,  trim  it  frequently  and  apply  a  stimulant.  One  that 
cm  be  recommended  by  experience  is  easily  prepared:  Camphor, 


THE  CARE  OP  THE  HAIR  669 

one  drachm;  borax,  one  drachm;  spirits  of  wine^  two  teaspopnfuls; 
tincture  of  cantharides,  two  teaspoonfuls;  rosemary  oil,  four  drops; 
rosewater,  half  a  pint.  Dissolve  the  camphor  and  borax  in  the 
^spirit,  add  the  oil,  and  then  shake  all  up  gradually  with  the  rose- 
water. 

Do  not  wrap  anything  around  the  head  when  retiring,  and  always 
arrange  the  hair  as  carefully  for  sleep  as  you  do  for  the  day;  part 
it  smoothly  in  various  places,  brush  carefully,  and  then  braid  it  in 
plaits,  which  should  be  allowed  to  hang  loose.  If  the  hair  becomes 
knotted,  rather  than  tear  it  out  by  attempting  to  disentangle  it,  take 
the  scissors  and  cut  the  knot  out.  Do  not  wear  too  much  false  hair. 
Do  not  use  heavy  hair-pins,  and  if  yon  wear  your  hair  crimped,  use 
rubber  pins  or  bands  to  put  it  up  on.  They  will  not  break  the  hair 
so  easily  nor  hurt  the  head  so  much,  nor  be  so  likely  to  become 
undone  during  the  night. 

There  are  few  women  who  do  not  crimp,  curl  or  wave  the  hair  in 
some  way,  and  yet  if  they  knew  how  lovely  the  hair  looks,  when  it 
is  healthful,  drawn  smoothly  from  the  face  and  twisted  in  a  knot 
behind,  one  cannot  but  think  that  smooth  hair  would  prove  the  rule 
and  not  the  exception.  A  wondrous  picture  shows  the  head  of  a 
woman  who  is  sleeping — the  eyfes  are  closed,  so  that .  you  can  only 
guess  at  their  color  and  depth;  but  the  shape  of  the  head  has  been 
a  study  for  all  the  art-loving  world  for  a  long  time.  Could  this  be 
seen  if  the  hair  were  arranged  in  crimps  or  frizzes?  Oh!  no.  And 
yet  it  is  wonderful  hair,  too.  Black,  glossy  and  thick,  drawn  back 
from  the  wide  brow  and  coiled  in  the  way  in  which  Venus  coiled 
hers. 

This  does  not  mean  to  all*  the  world,  "  Go,  fix  your  hair  perfectly 
plain;  you,  who  need  the  framing  of  soft  waves  or  coquettish  curls, 
cast  them  aside,  and  fix  your  locks  as  did  the  ancient  goddesses  :" 
but  it  does  mean,  '^  Study  the  shape  of  your  head,  and  if  yon  can 
afford  to  have  it  fully  displayed,  do  so." 

The  blessed  rule  which  governs  hair-dressing  to-day,  that  the 
**  most  suitable  is  the  most  fashionable,"  means  just  what  has  been 


670  THE  CARE  OF  THE  HAIR 

saidy  and  the  wise  woman  will  think  of  it  and  know  how  to  arrange 
her  hair  properly.     Do  not  attempt  to  dye  your  hair,  for  if  Mother 
Nature  has  been  so  beneficent  as  to  crown  you  with  silver  threads^,, 
be  thankful  to  her  for  her  great  love  for  you.     Many,  whose  faces 
would  otherwise  be  commonplace  and  inexpressive,  are  made  to 
have  a  striking  individuality  by  the  possession  of  just  such  gray 
locks  as  Marie  Antoinette  gained  when  she  powdered  her  hair^  or  as 
came  to  her  after  the  "  night  of  terror."    No  matter  how  young 
you  may  be,  prize  your  gray  hairs  as  you  never  would  golden  ones, 
and  as  their  possessors  never  do.     A  frequent  wail  among  ^^  golden 
locks  "  is  that  their  hair  will  always  remain  that  shade  or  else  fade 
into  a  neutral  tint,  the  bliss  of  respected  gray  hairs  being  denied 
them. 

The  change  produced  by  a  hair  dye  is  usually  palpable  to  the 
world  at  large,  and  she  who  uses  the  dye  is  generally  laughed  at. 
It  will  neither  suit  your  complexion  nor  your  eyes,  and  if  a  striking 
contrast  is  achieved,  it  will  only  be  pleasing  for  a  short  time.  As^ 
tonishing  things  grow  to  be  very  tiresome  when  they  are  often 
seen.  And  just  so  it  is  with  feminine  beauty;  we  love  best  that 
which  pleases  evenly — not  once' with  a  great  wonder  and  unbounded 
delight,  but  that  which  is  always  pleasing.  And  to  the  attainment 
of  this  beauty,  the  crowning  ornament  of  beautiful  hair  becomes 
necessary;  poets  sing  of  it,  and  yet  it  is  generally  braided  hair, 
long  hair,  or  locks  in  picturesque  disorder.  One  is  certain  that  all 
womankind  would  be  willing  to  sleep  a  hundred  years,  if,  like  Ten- 
nyson's Princess,  they  could  be  sure  that  in  time  some  prince  would 
find  them  and  some  poet-laureate  describe  them,  truthfully  saying, 

"  Year  after  year  unto  her  feet, 

She  lying  on  her  couch  alone, 
Across  the  purple  coverlet 

The  maiden's  Jet  black  hair  has  grown. 
On  either  side  her  trancM  form 

Forth-streaming  from  a  braid  of  pearl. 
The  slumbrous  light  is  rich  and  warm. 

And  moves  not  on  the  rounded  curl." 


J 


CHAPTER  XLVIII. 

HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 

;T  is  related  of  one  of  England's  greatest  statesmen,  that  some 
one  calling  to  see  him  unexpectedly  on  grave  political  affairs, 
found  him,  not  absorbed  in  state  papers  and  official  documents, 
but  on  all  fours  in  his  nursery,  with  his  children  romping  upon  and 
around  him.  And  of  another  eminent  man,  the  late  Earl  of  Derbj^ 
it  has  been  recorded,  in  a  graceful  tribute  paid  to  his  memory,  that 
while  at  times  he  would  seek  recreation  from  political,  labors  in 
the  translation  of  Homer,  at  others  he  loved  to  find  it  in 

"Makioff  some  wonder  for  a  happy  child." 


The  dark  evenings  of  winter  and  early  spring  call  into  request 
games  for  round  parties,  and  we  shall  devote  the  present  paper  to 
some  of  these.  To  commence  with  a  very  simple  one,'  we  will 
describe  a  game  of  German  origin,  known  as 

The  Ball  op  Wool. 

The  party  are  seated  round  a  table,  from  which  the  cloth  must  be 
drawn.  A  little  wool  is  rolled  up  into  the  form  of  a  ball,  and 
placed  in  the  middle  of  the  table.  The  company  then  coinmence 
to  blow  upon  it,  each  one  trying  to  drive  it  away  from  his  own 
direction,  and  the  object  of  all  being  to  blow  it  off,  so  that  the  per- 
son by  whose  right  side  it  falls  may  pay  a  forfeit.  The  longer  the 
ball  is  kept  on  the  table  by  the  opposing  puffs  of  the  surrounding 
party,  the  more  amusing  the  game  becomes,  as  the  distended  cheeks 
and  zealous  exertions  of  the  players  afford  mirth  to  lookers-on  as 
well  as  to  themselves. 


L 


672  HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTa 

Similar  to  this  is  a  game  called  "  Blowing  the  Feather,"  in  which 
a  small  feather  set  floating  in  the  air  answers  the  same  purpose  as 
the  ball  upon  the  table.  The  forfeit  falls  to  the  individual  whose 
puif  is  ineffectual  in  keeping  the  feather  afloat,  or  who  suffers  it  to 
drop  when  it  reaches  him« 

Of  a  different  character,  and  still  more  comic  in  its  results,  is  s 
game  called 

Shadows. 

This  game,  sometimes  called  ^^  Shadow  Buff,**  is  productive  of 
much  amusement  in  a  round  party.  It  consists  in  the  detection  of 
the  individuals  who  compose  the  company  bj  their  shadows;  but 
these  they  are  at  liberty  to  disguise  as  much  as  possible.  The 
following  is  the  method  pursued:  A  white  tablecloth  or  sheet  is 
suspended  on  one  side  of  the  apartment,  and  at  a  short  distance 
before  this  sheet,  one  of  the  party,  chosen  for  the  purpose,  is  seated 
upon  either  the  floor  or  a  low  stool,  with  his  face  directed  towards 
the  cloth.  Behind  him,  on  the  farther  side  of  the  apartment,  the 
table  is  placed,  and  upon  it  a  lamp  or  taper,  all  other  lights  in  the 
apartment  being  extinguished.  Each  of  the  company  in  turn 
passes  before  the  lamp  and  behind  the  person  who  is  gazing  upon 
the  cloth,  which  thus  receives  a  strong  shadow.  If  the  individual 
seated  can  name  the  person  whose  shadow  is  thus  thrown,  the 
latter  has  to  pay  a  forfeit,  or  to  take  the  place  of  the  guesser,  as 
may  be  agreed  upon. 

Thb  Messekobb. 

The  party  are  seated  in  line,  or  round  the  sides  of  the  room,  and 
some  one  previously  appointed  enters  ^ith  the  message,  "My 
master  sends  me  to  you,  madam,"  or  "  sir,"  as  the  case  may  be, 
directed  to  any  individual  he  may  select  at  his  option.  "  What 
for?"  is  the  natural  inquiry.  "To  do  as  I  do;"  and  with  this  the 
messenger  commences  to  perform  some  antic  which  the  lady  or 
gentleman  must  imitate — say  he  wags  his  head  from  side  to  side, 
or  taps  with  one  foot  incessantly  on  the  floor.     The  person  whose 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS, 


573 


duty  it  is  to  obey,  commands  his  neighbor  to  the  right  or  to  the 
left  to  '^Do  as  I  do,"  also;  and  so  on  until  the  whole  company  are 
in  motion,  when  the  messenger  leaves  the  room,  re-entering  it  with 
fresh  injunctions.  While  the  messenger  is  in  the  room  he  must  see 
his  master's  will  obeyed,  and  no  one  must  stop  from  the  movement 
without  suffering  a  forfeit.  The  messenger  should  be  some  one 
ingenious  in  making  the  antics  ludicrous,  and  yet  kept  within  mod- 
erate bounds,  and  the  game  will  not  fail  to  produce  shouts  of 
laughter. 

Another  game,  of  much  the  same  character,  is  known  by  the 
title,  "  Thus  says  the  Grand  Seignor."  The  chief  difference  is  that 
the  first  player  is  stationed  in  the  centre  of  the  room,  and  prefaces 
his  movements,  which  the  others  must  all  follow,  by  the  above 
words.  If  he  varies  his  command  by  framing  it,  "5b  says  the 
Grand  Seignor,"  the  party  must  remain  still,  and  decline  to  follow 
his  example.  Any  one  who  moves  when  he  begins  with  "  So,"  or 
does  not  follow  him  when  he  commences  with  "  Thus,"  has  to  pay 
a  forfeit. 

Magic  Music. 

In  this  game  a  player  is  seated  at  the  piano,  and  one  of  the 
others  leaves  the  room,  while  the  company  decides  what  the  last- 
mentioned  is  to  do  on  his  return.  When  called  in,  he  is  given  a 
hint,  but  only  a  hint,  of  what  he  is  expected  to  do.  We  will 
suppose  that  he  is  told  that  he  is  to  "  make  an  offering  to  a  certain 
lady."  He  is  left  to  himself  as  to  what  the  offering  may  be,  but 
he  must  guess  the  lady  to  whom  it  is  to  be  offered,  and  offer  to 
each  in  succession  until  he  discovers  the  individual  selected.  The 
musical  part  of  the  performance  is  this :  When  he  re-enters  the 
room,  the  person  at  the  piano  commences  to  play  some  piece,  with 
a  moderate  degree  of  vigor.  As  the  guesser  approaches  the  right 
lady,  or  the  right  thing  to  be  done,  whatever  its  nature,  the  music 
becomes  louder  or  quicker;  but  if  he  appears  to  be  going  farther 
and  farther  from  his  appointed  task,  the  music  becomes  softer  and 
softer,  until  it  is  scarcely  heard.      This  gives  him  a  clue  as  to- 


674  HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 

whether  he  is  on  the  right  scent,  or  otherwise.  If  there  be  no  piano 
in  the  room,  the  **  magic  music  ^  may  be  of  another  character.  It 
may  consist  in  the  tinkling  or  clashing  together  of  any  articles  that 
will  emit  either  a  harmonious  or  a  discordant  sound,  according  to  the 
degree  of  hilarity  or  boisterousness  to  which  the  age  and  other  cir* 
cumstances  of  the  company  dispose  them.  But,  played  with  a  little 
tact,  the  game  in  any  of  its  forms  will  be  found  amusing. 

The  Coubtters. 

One  of  the  company  is  selected  to  be  king  or  queen,  and  occupies 
a  chair  in  the  center  of  the  room,  the  rest  being  seated  round  the 
sides  of  the  apartment.  Whatever  movement  may  be  made  by  the 
monarch  must  be  imitated  by  the  courtiers;  and  it  is  the  gist  of  the 
game  that  this  should  be  done  without  any  one  losing  that  assump- 
tion of  decorous  gravity  which  becomes  the  scene.  The  monarch  may 
yawn,  sneeze,  blow  his  nose,  or  wipe  his  eye,  and  the  courtiers  must 
all  do  the  same;  but  if  any  one  of  them  is  so  deficient  in  self-control 
or  so  presumptive  as  to  grin  or  to  laugh,  he  or  she  must  pay  the 
penalty  of  a  forfeit.  It  is  rarely,  however,  that  penalties  are  few 
or  far  between. 

The  Dumb  Orator. 

This  is  a  very  amusing  performance,  enacted  by  two  persons  for 
the  benefit  of  the  rest  of  the  company.  One  of  the  two  recites  a 
speech,  or  any  popular  piece  of  declamation — "My  name  is  Nerval,** 
^r  the  like — ^keeping  all  the  while  perfectly  motionless,  and  without 
a  quiver  upon  his  countenance,  while  the  other,  standing  silent  by 
his  side,  gesticulates  furiously;  according  to  the  emotions  called  up 
by  the  passage  recited.  Of  course,  the  more  closely  he  follows  and 
burlesques  the  action  natural  to  the  words  throughout,  the  greater 
the  amusement  created.  There  is  another  way  of  performing  the 
same  oratorical  show,  namely,  by  the  two  players  enveloping  them- 
selves in  the  same  cloak  or  wrapper,  and  the  arms  of  the  one — which 
are  all  the  company  are  allowed  to  see  of  him — ^keeping  up  an  action 
suited  to  the  narrative  of  the  other;  but  this  is  more  awkward  in 
the  performance,  and  less  effective  than  the  method  first  described* 


,■•''  ^^ 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS.  676 

m 

Speaking  Buff. 

At  this  game,  the  eyes  of  one  of  the  players  are  bandageci,  as  in 
'"  blind  man,"  and  he  is  seated  in  the  center  of  the  room,  the  party 
then  taking  their  places,  "  Buff "  holds  a  wand  or  stick  in  one 
hand,  and,  when  all  are  seated,  he  points  with  this  to  one  side  of 
the  room,  or  touches  one  of  the  players,  at  the  same  time  uttering 
three  words  according  to  his  fancy.  The  person  towards  whom  he 
points  must  th^h'  repeat  these  words;  and  if  "Buff"  can  discover 
his  or  her  identity  by  the  tones  of  the  voice,  he  is  released  from  his 
position,  and  the  person  detected  takes  his  place. 

The  Shopkeepers. 
This  is  a  good  game  to  exercise  a  knowledge  of  the  various  pro- 
-ductions  of  nature.  Each  person  in  the  company  represents  a  shop- 
keeper or  merchant,  who  has  some  goods  on  hand  which  he  wishes 
to  dispose  of;  but  no  two  persons  may  choose  the  same  trade.  Any 
•one  may  start  the  game — say,  for  instance,  the  draper — and  he  com- 
mences, we  will  suppose,  by  observing  to  his  next  neighbor,  "  I  have 
some  silk  for  sale;  is  it  animal,  vegetable,  or  mineral?"  To  this  the 
reply  would  be,  "Animal,  for  it  is  the  production  of  the  silkworm." 
The  correct  answer  having  been  given— we  will  assume  by  the  chemist 
— the  latter  turns  to  the  person  next  him,  with  an  inquiry  suited  to 
his  trade;  say,  "I  have  some  glycerine  for  sale;  is  it  animal,  vege- 
table, or  mineral?"  The  rejoinder  may  be,  "Either  animal  or 
vegetable,  for  it  may  be  obtained  from  either  vegetable  or  animal 
fat."  The  merchant,  in  his  turn,  may  say,  "  I  have  some  shell-lac 
for  sale;  is  it  animal,  vegetable,  or  mineral?"  and  should  receive 
the  reply,  "  Animal,  for  it  is  obtained  from  an  insect."  So  the 
game  goes  on,  the  ingenuity  of  each,  as  it  proceeds,  being  taxed  to 
mention  some  article  of  his  stock,  the  origin  of  which  may  not  be 
within  the  knowledge  of  the  person  addressed.  A  round  or  two  of 
the  game  will  rarely  proceed  without  some  of  the  company  finding 
that  they  have  added  to  their  store  of  general  knowledge,  as  well 
as  derived  amusement. 


I 


I 


676  HOUSEHOLD  AlilUSfiMENTS. 

* 

TWIBLIXG  THB  TbjENCHEB. 

This  is  a  brisk  game,  requiring  activity  without  ingenuity. 
A  circle  is  formed  in  t!ie  room,  and  a  good  space  is  left 
clear  in  the  midst.  A  trentsher  or  round  wooden  platter  is 
obtained,  or,  if  such  a  thing  is  not  available,  a  small  round 
tray  or  waiter  will  best  answer  the  purpose.  When  all 
the  party  are  seated,  one  of  the  company  stands  '  up  in 
the  center  and  twirls  the  tray  round  upon  the  floor,  at  the 
same  time  calling  out  the  name  of  any  other  person  present,  who 
must  rise  and  pick  up  the  trencher  before  it  falls  to  the  ground, 
otherwise  he  or  she  pays  a  forfeit.  The  person  who  twirls  the 
trencher  returns  to  his  own  seat  immediately,  and  the  one  who 
picks  it  up,  or  has  been  called  upon  to  do  so,  has  the  privilege  of  . 
making  a  call  afterwards. 

PbO  VERBS. 

Proverbs  is  a  gam?  of  a  more  intellectual  character.  In  this,  one 
person  volunteers,  or  is  chosen  by  the  company,  to  leave  the  room, 
and  in  his  or  her  absence  a  proverb  is  fixed  upon  by  the  remaining 
party.  The  person  outside  is  then  called  in,  and  the  first  person 
whom  he  addresses  with  any  remark  or  inquiry,  is  bound  to  reply  U> 
him  with  an  answer  in  which  the  first  word  of  the  proverb  is  intro- 
duced. The  second  person  to  whom  he  goes  must  reply  in  such  a  way 
as  to  bring  in  the  second  word;  and  so  on  until  the  proverb  has  been 
repeated.  He  is  then  informed  that  he  need  not  proceed  further, 
and  is  left  to  guess  the  proverb  chosen.  If  he  fails  in  three  attempts, 
he  must  again  retire,  and  his  ingenuity  is  tried  by  the  selection  and 
repetition  of  another  proverb.  Any  one  making  an  answer  in  which 
the  right  word  in  turn  is  not  introduced,  pays  the  penalty  of  a  for- 
feit, and  the  company  are,  therefore,  on  the  watch  to  see  that  each 
person  addressed  duly  performs  the  part.  The  great  art  of  the 
game  is  in  so  wrapping  up  the  word  in  the  course  of  the  reply  as  to 
made  it  difficult  for  the  guesser  to  discover  the  proverb  which  was 
chosen.     Some  proverbs  are  far  more  easy  of  detection  than  others^ 


^■y:y^ 


,r. 


*.'■'* 


HOUSiEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 


677 


from  the  forcible  or  pecnliar  words  comprised  in  them,  or  the  diffi- 
culty which  the  answerers  find  in  concealing  the  words  which  fall  to 
them  in  rotation.  ^^  Still  waters  rnn  deep  "  may  be  taken  as  an 
example  of  the  class  difficult  of  concealment,  for  "  waters "  and 
"  deep  ^  are  awkward  words  to  introduce,  and  will  easily  connect 
themselves  in  the  mind  of  the  guesser,  who  is  on  the  watch  for  his 
cine.  "  Where  there's  a  will  there's  a  way "  is  more  capable  of 
disguise,  but  "  will "  and  "  way  "  will  reveal  themselves  to  a  person 
quick  of  apprehension.  None  of  the  proverbs  chosen  should  consist 
of  very  many  words,  or  the  guessing  may  become  tedious.  When 
the  proverb  is  detected,  the  guesser  is  entitled  to  claim  that  some 
one  else  shall  take  his  place,  and  may,  if  he  pleases,  select  for  that 
purpose  the  person  whose  insufficient  disguise  of  the  allotted  word 
gave  him  his  first  clue.  Or  he  may  name  any  one  else  in  the  com- 
pany for  the  purpose.  If  the  guesser  tries  his  skill  two  or  three 
times  without  success,  he  may  claim  relief  from  his  office,  and  some 
one  else  may  be  appointed.  In  this,  as  in  all  other  games,  it  must 
be  remembered  that  when  weariness  on  any  side  commences,  amuse- 
ment is  at  an  end;  and  where  there  are  symptoms  of  a  game  reach- 
ing that  point,  it  should  be  relinquished  for  another. 

The  Newspaper. 

This  may  be  played  either  as  a  forfeit  game,  or  otherwise.  One 
of  the  party  is  appointed  to  "  read  the  newspaper,"  the  others,* 
seated  before  him,  assume  to  be  members  of  different  trades  and 
professions — ^lawyer,  doctor,  draper,  grocer,  etc.  The  reader  takes 
lip  any  paper  that  may  be  at  hand,  and  selects  some  passage  for 
perusal.  The  peculiarity  of  the  game  is,  that  whenever  he  pauses 
and  looks  at  any  member  of  the  company,  that  person  must  make 
some  suitable  observation  appropriate  to  his  particular  trade — ^the 
more  incongruous  to  the  narrative  or  dissertation  which  is  being 
read  by  the  first  player,  the  better.  The  penalty  of  a  forfeit  may 
be  exacted  from  any  person  who  does  not  reply  when  appealed  to, 
or  who  makes  a  remark  not  connected  with  his  own  pursuit. 

87 


>•-''-*-" 


r>78  HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 

To  give  our  readers  a  clear  idea  of  the  mode  of  playing  the  game, 
we  will  suppose  the  reader  lights  upon  a  narrative  of  the  visit  of 
the  Dake  of  Edinburgh  to  Calcutta.     He  proceeds  thus — 

*^  A  guard  of  honor  composed  of "  (here  he  looks,  say,  at  the 
Oilman) — 

Oilman — "  Tallow  candles  " 

'*  Was  drawn  up  on  the  quay,  and  his  Royal  Highness  on  landing 
was  received  with  a  round  of" — 

Butcher. — "  Marrow  bones," 

^'  Delivered  in  true  British  fashion.  A  salute  of  twenty-one  guns 
was  fired  from  the" — 

Draper. — "  Band-box," 

"  And  the  ships  and  forts  hoisted  their" — 

Lawyer. — "  Affidavits." 

"  Every  house  in  the  vicinity  was  decorated  with" — 

Grocer.—"  Treacle," 

"  And  the  windows  were  filled  with  elegantly  dressed" — 

Surgeon. — "Compound  fractures." 

"Escorted  by  the  Governor  Greneral,  his  Royal  Highness  pio- 
ceeded  to  the" — 

Confectioner. — "  Mince-pies," 

"**  And  gracefully  bowed  his  acknowledgments  to  the" — 

Ironmonger. — "  Fire-shovel." 

So  the  reading  continues,  untU  each  member  of  the  compan  '  has 
responded,  or  the  paragraph  is  closed,  when  another  extract  may 
be  commenced.  The  passages  most  suited  for  perusal  are  those 
which  possess  some  degree  of  gravity  in  tone,  without  being  too 
serious  to  serve  as  a  foundation  for  the  ridiculous  interpolations  to 
which  the  game  will  naturally  give  rise. 

Comical  Combin'a.tions. 

This  is  a  game  which  can  be  made  a  source  of  oonndermble 
amusement  by  a  party  of  young  people  who  have  some  skill,  k'^w- 
ever  slight,  in  drawing.     It  is  not  known  under  any  especial  n'^me, 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS  579 

SLnd  is  played  in  the  following  way:  Those  engaged  in  it  sit  round* 
the  table,  and  each  is  supplied  with  a  piece  of  writing  paper  folded 
into  three  parts,  and  a  lead  pencil.  In  the  first  place  each  sketches 
a  head  and  neck — that  of  a  man  or  woman,  or  that  of  some  inferior 
iinimal,  taking  care  that  his  neighbor  does  not  see  what  he  has 
done,  then  each  refolds  the  paper,  so  as  to  hide  his  or  her  sketch, 
but  leaves  indications  of  where  the  neck  is  on  the  blank  part  of  the 
paper  which  is  folded  over  it.  The  papers  then  change  hands  all 
round,  and  each  proceeds  to  sketch  a  body  for  the  head  he  has  not 
Been.  When  this  has  been  accomplished  the  papers  are  again 
refolded  as  before;  another  change  takes  place;  and  all  proceed  to 
supply  legs  to  the  bodies  they  have  not  geen,  just  as  before  they 
supplied  bodies  for  the  heads  they  had  not  seen.  When  all  this 
has  been  done,  another  change  of  papers  takes  place,  and  then  each 
writes  the  name  supposed  to  belong  to  the  figure  thus  curiously 
compounded,  after  which  the  papers  are  unfolded,  and  the  result  is 
usually  bursts  of  laughter  at  the  address  or  the  absurdity  of  the 
combinations. 

Another  game,  very  like  this,  is  for  each  to  write  a  line  of  poetry, 
folding  it  under  as  before,  passing  it  to  the  next  ^nd  telling  him 
the  last  word  of  the  line  written,  to  which  he  must  write  a  line 
which  will  rhyme.  Upon  being  read  it  will  be  found  that  many  of 
•the  stanzas  will  have  a  very  amusing  construction. 

Buz. 

This  is  a  forfeit  game,  and  partakes  of  the  nature  of  an  arith- 
metical exercise.  The  party  repeat  in  order  any  number  of  figures, 
from  one  to  fifty,  or  one  to  one  hundred,  as  may  be  agreed  upon, 
but  every  seven  that  occurs,  and  every  multiple  of  seven,  is  repre- 
sented by  the  word  "  Buz  !"  Thus,  the  first  player  says  "  One,"  the 
next  "  Two,"  and  so  on  until  the  seventh,  who  must  say  "  Buz !" 
instead;  he  who  has  "fourteen  "  in  his  turn  must  also  repeat  "Buz," 
and  the  same  with  those  who  come  to  seventeen,  twenty-one, 
ttwenty-seven,  etc.     It  is  not  so  easy  to  avoid  mistakes,  when  the 


580 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 


tigares  are  being  quickly  repeated  round  the  circle,  as  may  be 
imagined*  Every  time  seven  occurs  as  part  of  the  number,  as  in 
twenty-seven  and  thirty-seven,  the  players  may  be  sufficiently  on 
their  guard;  but  they  will  generally  be  found  tripping  thoughtlessly 
as  the  multiples  of  seven,  such  as  forty-two  and  fifty-six,  come  in 
order,  and  so  there  will  be  no  lack  of  forfeits.  Seventy-one  is  called* 
"  Buz-one,**  and  seventy-seven  "  Buz-buz." 

The  Knight  of  the  Whistle. 

This  is  a  sort  of  modified  "  blindman's  buff,"  played,  however,, 
without  a  bandage  over  the  eyes,  and  without  the  romping  element 
which  sometimes  makes  that  well-known  game  objectionable.  A 
small  whistle  is  suspended  from  the  coat  collar  or  the  dress  of  one 
of  the  party  by  a  piece  of  twine  or  thread,  about  half  a  yard  long, 
which  hangs  down  between  the  shoulders.  The  "  knight "  or  the 
"  lady  "  of  the  whistle,  as  the  case  may  be,  then  stands  in  the  centre 
or  walks  slowly  round  the  circle  of  the  company;  some  one,  watch- 
ing an  opportunity,  seizes  the  whistle  and  blows  it  shrilly,  when 
the  knight  immediately  turns  to  detect  the  offender,  and  if  he  hits 
upon  the  right  person,  the  latter  must  take  his  place.  As  the 
player  turns  to  ^find  out  one  whistler,  another  gives  a  blow,  and 
thus  the  game  proceeds  merrily,  until  some  one,  less  dexterous  than 
the  rest,  is  caught. 

Catch  the  Ring. 

This  is  another  modem  invention,  which  is  considered  an  im- 
provement on  the  boisterous  game  of  "  hunt  the  slipper,"  and  is, 
therefore,  taking  its  place.  The  players  are  seated  in  a  circle  or 
semi-circle,  and  hold  a  string,  on  which  a  finger-ring  is  placed.  One 
of  the  company  undertakes  the  task  of  finding  this  ring,  which  is 
passed  rapidly  along  the  string  from  hand  to  hand,  as  the  players 
see  an  opportunity  of  moving  it  unobserved.  If  the  first  player 
can  at  any  moment  pounce  upon  the  ring,  the  person  in  whose 
possession  it  may  be  is  called  on  to  take  his  place,  and,  if  so  agreed 
on«  to  pay  a  forfeit  in  addition. 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS.  581 

Scandal. 

This  is  a  more  intellectual  game,  and  while  amusing  enough, 
serves  at  the  same  time  to  ppint  a  moral,  as  it  illustrates  the 
growth  of  scandal,  or  the  variations  which  arise  in  a  story,  when 
commonplace  facts  are  repeated  from  mouth  to  mouth.  The  player 
seated  at  one  end  of  the  room  whispers  something  to  his  next 
neighbor,  who  repeats  it  as  nearly  as  he  can  remember  it,  and  again 
in  a  whisper,  to  the  person  seated  by  his  side.  So  the  t>le  passes 
from  end  to  end  of  the  room,  and  when  it  reaches  the  laf»t  person, 
the  latter  has  to  repeat  the  story  aloud;  the  first  player  then  gives 
his  original  version,  and  much  amusement  is  usually  creat^i?.  by  the 
difference  between  the  two.  In  starting  the  tale,  it  h  well  to 
introduce  some  word  or  words  which  are  capable  of  being  ^aken  in 
more  senses  than  one,  as  this  affords  the  more  opport'/nity  for 
variation. 

The  Wild  Bsast  Show.  * 

A  screen  must  be  placed  at  the  end  of  the  room;  belind  it  is 
placed  a  large  mirror  and  a  light.  The  showman  stands  before  the 
screen,  and  offers  to  exhibit  his  wild  animals  to  any  person  who 
will  promise  not  to  describe  what  he  has  seen  when  he  com^s  out. 
Then  the  person  who  gives  the  promise  and  demands  admUt^nce  ia 
asked  what  animal  he  wishes  to  see.  On  his  naming  one,  the  show- 
man proceeds  to  describe  it.  The  description  should  be  very  witty, 
and  should  have  some  application  (either  complimentary  or  satmcal) 
to  the  person  who  wishes  to  see  the  show.  The  person  is  then 
admitted  behind  the  screen,  and  is  shown  himself  in  the  loeking- 
glass. 

The  Gentebl  Lady  Alwats  Genteel. 

For  this  French  game,  which  is  a  very  funny  one,  you  must  have 
a  certain  number  of  spills,  or  twisted  pieces  of  paper,  intended  to 
represent  horns.  Whoever  makes  a  mistake  in  the  game,  which  is 
really  difficult,  has  for  each  mistake  a  paper  horn  stuck  in  her  hair, 
BO  placed  that  it  will  shake  when  she  moves. 


582  HOUSEHOLD  AMU8EMBNT& 

The  game  begins  by  one  of  the  party  saying  to  her  light-hanJ 
neighbor,  "  Good-morning,  genteel  lady  always  genteeL  I,  a  gen- 
teel lady  always  genteel,  come  from  that  genteel  lady  always  gen- 
teel (here  she  points  to  the  young  lady  on  her  left  hand),  to  tell 
you  that  she  owns  an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak." 

The  next  player  bows,  turns  to  the  one  on  her  right  hand,  and 
says,  "  Good-morning,  genteel  lady  always  genteel.  I,  a  genteel 
/ady  always  genteel,  come  from  that  genteel  lady  always  genteel, 
to  tell  you  that  she  has  an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak  and  silver 
claws." 

The  young  lady  bows  and  turns  to  her  neighbor,  saying,  "  Good- 
morning,  genteel  lady  always  genteel.  I,  a  genteel  lady  always 
genteel,  come  from  that  genteel  lady  .always  genterl,  to  tell  you 
that  she  owns  an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak,  silver  claws,  and  a  lace 
skin." 

It  is  very  likely  that  this  speaker  will  make  one  or  two  mistakes 
in  repeating  the  sentence.  If  so,  she  must  be  dressed  in  one  or  two 
paper  horns,  and  the  next  speaker  has  to  say,  "Good-morning, 
genteel  lady  always  genteeL  I,  a  genteel  lady  always  genteel, 
come  from  that  two-horned  lady  always  two-horned,  to  tell  you 
that  she  owns  an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak,  silver  claws,  lace  skin, 
and  diamond  eyes." 

Probably  this  speaker  will  make  several  mistakes,  and  receive 
four  paper  horns  on  her  head. 

Then  the  speaker  after  her  must  say,  "  Good-morning,  genteel 
lady  always  genteel.  I,  a  genteel  lady  always  genteel,  come  from 
that  four-horned  lady  always  four-horned,  to  tell  you  that  she  owns 
an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak,  silver  claws,  a  lace  skin,  diamond 
eyes,  and  purple  feathers." 

Each  of  these  sentences  goes  round  the  entire  circle,  always  tak- 
ing in  more  "horned  ladies,"  till  at  last  the  sentence  will  become: 

"Good-morning,  four-horned  lady,  always  four-homed.  I  a 
three-horned  lady  always  three-homed,  come  fiom  that  two-horned 
lady  always  two-horned  (pointing  to  her  left),  to  tell  you  that  she 


HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS.  683 

owns  an  eagle  with  a  golden  beak,  silver  claws,  lace  skin,  diamond 
eyes,  and  purple  feathers." 

Every  mistake  (even  the  difference  of  a  word,  or  omitting  to  point 
to  the  left,  or  to  bow  after  each  speech)  incurs  a  horn.  The  best 
plan  for  playing  this  game  is  to  let  the  same  player  commence  each 
fresh  sentence — for  instance,  to  send  "  the  estgle  With  the  golden 
beak "  round  first,  then  the  "  silver  claws,"  and  so  on.  No  lady 
must  be  called  "  genteel "  who  wears  the'  paper  horns,  and  any 
mistake  in  the  number  she  wears  incurs  another  horn  for  the 
blunderer.     At  the  end  each  horn  is  ransomed,  as  forfeits  are. 

Dumb  Crambo. 
Half  the  company  leave  the  room.  While  they  are  absent,  the 
others  fix  on  a  verb  which  the  absent  ones  are  to  guess  and  per- 
form. By-and-by,  when  their  decision  is  made,  they  call  in  the 
leader  of  the  outside  party,  and  say,  "The  verb  we  have  chosen 
for  you  rhymes  with  pie"  (or  any  other  word  chosen).  The  leader 
retires,  and  discusses  with  her  followers  what  the  verb  can  be.  It 
is  best  to  take  those  which  will  rhyme  with  the  noun  given,  in 
alphabetical  order.  "  Buy "  would  come  first  for  "  pie."  The 
party  enter  and  begin  to  buy  of  each  other.  If  right  (that  is,  if 
"to  buy"  was  the  word  chosen),  the  spectators  clap  their  hands;  if 
wrong,  they  hiss.  Speech  on  either  side  would  entail  a  forfeit.  If 
hissed,  the  actors  retire,  and  arrange  what  next  to  do,  "  Cry " 
would  be  the  next  in  rhyme,  or  "dye,"  or  " eye,"  or  "fly,"  or  "hie," 
or  "  sigh,"  or  "  tie,"  all  of  which  are  acted  in  turn,  till  the  clap  of 
approval  announce  that  the  guess  is  a  successful  one.  Then  the 
spectators  go  out,  and  become  in  their  turn  actors,  in  the  same 
manner.  A  great  deal  of  the  fun  of  this  game  depends  on  the 
acting  and  on  the  choice  of  the  verbs;  but  it  is  almost  sure  to  cause 

great  amusement. 

The  Giantess. 

This  is  a  very  amusing  deception.  A  tall  young  lad  is  dressed 
in  a  petticoat  Then  a  large  umbrella  is  covered  over  its  silk  ribs 
with  a  gown  and  cloak;  a  ball,  for  a  head,  is  tied  on  the  point  of 


584  HOUSEHOLD  AMUSEMENTS. 

the  umbrella-stick  above  the  dress,  and  a  bonnet  and  thick  veu 
put  on  it.  The  umbrella  is  partially  opened,  so  that  its  sticks  set 
out  the  dress  and  cloak  as  a  crinoline  does.  The  player  gets  under 
it,  and  holding  the  handle  up  as  high  as  he  can  grasp  it,  appears 
like  a  gigantic  woman.  Somebody  knocks  at  the  hall  door  to  pre- 
tend that  there  is  an  arrival;  and  a  minute  or  two  afterwards  the 
footman  is  to  open  the  drawing-room  door  and  announce  ''Miss 
Tiny  LittlegirL"  The  giantess  then  walks  into  the  drawing-room, 
to  the  amazement  of  the  company,  bows,  etc.  It  has  a  good  effect 
to  eliter  holding  the  umbrella-handle  naturally,  and  then  to  raise  it 
by  degrees,  which  will  give  a  comical  appearance  of  growth.  We 
have  seen  the  giantess  thus  appear  to  rLse  till  she  peered  over  the 
tops  of  the  highest  pictures  in  the  room.  The  effect  is  exceedingly 
funny.  She  may  talk  to  the  company  also,  bending  her  head  down 
towards  them,  and  speaking  in  a  shrill  tone  of  voice.  In  clever^ 
hands,  the  giantess  causes  a  great  deal  of  fun. 

A  Blind  Judgmbnt. 
A  young  lady  is  blindfolded.  The  leader  of  the  game  then 
brings  the  players,  one  by  one,  up  to  her,  and  requires  her  opinion 
of  them.  She  is  not  restored  to  sight  until  she  has  given  a  just 
opinion  of  some  one  in  accordance  with  the  judgment  of  the  com- 
pany. Those  presented  must  be  quite  silent,  and  endeavor  to  steo 
lightly,  so  as  not  to  let  her  guess  whether  she  is  giving  her  opin»<>o 
of  a  young  lady  or  a  gentleman. 


1»    -  ^  ■• 
r     . 


CHAPTER  XLIX. 


FOLDING    NAPKINS. 

LMOST  any  amount  of  fancy  or  ingenuity  can  be  displayed  in 
folding  serviettes  or  table-napkins.  To  make  them  look  well, 
or  even  to  succeed  in  the  more  elaborate  styles  of  folding, 
napkins  are  required  very  fine,  exactly  square,  not  too  large,  to  be 
starched^  and  folded  quite  damp,  every  fold  creased  in  place  with 
a  clean  hot  iron.  The  pantry  or  housekeeper's  room  is  the  place 
for  folding  the  napkins,  which  may  then  be  brought  to  table  on  a 
tray;  but  a  lady  may  place  a  board  covered  with  flannel  on  a  small, 
light  table,  put  the  iron  stand  upon  it,  and  shift  it  down  the  outside 
of  the  dinner-table  as  she  folds,  so  as  to  place  each  napkin  as  it  is 
done  on  a  plate.  A  second  iron  must  be  heating  to  exchange  with 
the  one  in  use,  for,  unless  very  hot,  the  napkins  will  not  be  stiff 
enough.  The  shell  and  the  Victoria  Regia  and  the  basket  require 
them  very  stiff.  If  at  any  time  the  folding  of  a  napkin  is  unsatis- 
factory, on  no  account  attempt  to  refold  the  same;  it  is  impossible 
to  succeed  with  one  already  creased.  Throw  it  aside  to  be 
re-damped  or  re-starched,  which  will  take  but  a  few  moments,  and 
meanwhile  proceed  with  fresh  ones. 

Napkins  folded  in  alternate  patterns  down  a  table  look  well,  such 
as  mitres  and  shells,  and  there  may  be  flowers  placed  in  the  shells. 
Figs.  31,  13,  4  and  32 — ^the  mitre,  the  cornucopia,  the  pocket  and 
the  shell — are  perhaps  the  best  of  these  designs.  The  commoner 
kinds  of  folding  can  be  achieved  without  the  aid  of  starch,  or  even 
without  an  iron,  although  they  look  much  better  so  assisted.  The 
very  simplest  folds  look  extremely  pretty  if  carefully  done.     They 

566 


'  688  f6lDIN0  NAPKlNa 

are  not  folded  after  they  have  been  once  used;  when  for  t 
the  same  are  likelj  to  come  to  table  again,  a  ring  is  plao 
each  person,  and  the  article  rolled  and  slipped  into  it  afte 
first  time,  and  brought  to  table  again  in  the  ring,  the  mar 
ring  distinguishing  the  napkia  of  each  person. 

Thb  Pockbt, — One  of  the  simplest  styles  is  to  fold  tli 
twice,  lengthways;  then,  like  Pig.  1,  keeping  the  whole  ol 


^ 


at  the  top  and  the  edges  at  a  a  and  b  b;  roll  np.  the  ends 
one  at  a  time,  as  in  Fig.  2,  but  roll  them  the  reverse  way 
— that  is,  under,  not  over.  When  both  ends  are  rolled  u 
as  E,  with  a  twist  of  the  hard  bring  the  ends  of  the  rolls, 
point  c,  like  Fig.  3.  Then  lay  tlm  part  shown  in  Fig.  3  f 
table,  and  stit  np  the  diamond  sii:'ped  fold  at  the  top 


FOLDING  NAPKINS.  687 

bande;  slip  the  dinner  roll  or  slice  of  bread  into  the  hollow.  Before 
the  bread  is  pat  in,  Fig.  4  repreeents  the  form  of  the  folded  napkim 

Crown  Pattern. — This  requires  the  damaek  to  be  very  stiff. 
Halve  and  quarter  it  each  way,  like  Fig.  6;  bring  all  the  comen 
very  exactly  to  the  centre,  like  Fig.  7;  bring  the  foar  corners  of 
Fig.  1  also  to  the  centre,  and  smooth  them  at  the  crease;  then  form 
it  into  the  crown  by  folding  the  comers  at  a  a  in  Fig.  7,  and  slip- 
ping them  into  similar  folds  at  b  b,  bringing  the  napkin  round 
and  upright  in  the  form  of  a  crown  (Fig.  8). 

The  Flower. — To  make  this  way  of  folding  resemble  a  flower, 
copy  Fig.  6  and  then  Fig.  7;  bring  all  the  corners  of  Fig.  7  nearly. 


Fig.  11.  Fl«.  IS. 

but  not  qiiitt-,  to  the  centre  for  the  second  fold;  finish  it  as  before, 
and  then  curl  up  the  four  centre  points,  like  Fig.  0. 

The  Cobnocopia  looks  very  pretty  down  a  long  dinner-table. 
Fold  the  napkin  in  a  half,  lengthways;  then  fold  it  like  Fig.  10,  the 
hems  at  the  broad  end.  Take  the  eomera  a  and  b,  bring  them 
back  again  to  the  comer  c,  like  Fig.  1,1.  Double  Fig,  II  together 
down  the  centre.  This  represents  Fig,  12.  At  n,  in  Fig.  12,  three 
folds  exist,  two  outer  and  one  inner.  Set  Fig,  13  upright,  over  the 
dinner  roll  with  three  of  these  folds  to  one  side.  Shape  ifnicelv, 
keeping  the  space  from  e  to  f  close.     To  carry  out  the  idea  of  the 


588  FOLDlNa  NAPKma 

oomuoopia,  a  few  flowers  and  leaves  may  be  placed  in  the  manaei 
shown  in  Fig.  13,  the  stalks  slipped  under  the  edge,  but  milst  not 
be  done  too  profusely.  When  the  napkins  are  removed  by  the 
guests,  the  flowers  will  be  taken  away  by  the  wwter  on  the  plates, 
and  can  be  transferred  to  the  finger-bowls. 

Tub  Cocked  Hat  is  made  by  folding  the  napkin  first  in  halt 
one  way,  and  then  in  half  the  other  way,  and  once  more  in  half, 
lengthways,  in  the  way  illustrated  by  Figs.  14  and  15.     Then  make 


ng.  90. 
a  fold  Btill  lengthways,  turning  one  one  way  and  one  the  other,  not 
quite  to  the  top.  This  fold  is  shown  by  ±a^a  in  Pig,  16.  The 
napkin  is  supposed,  in  this  diagram,  to  be  laid  flat  on  the  table,  the 
dotted  line  in  the  oentre  marking  the  fold,  which  is  shown  in  Fig. 
11  by  the  line  at  b.  The  lines  in  Fig.  16  from  a  to  a  and  a  to  a, 
are  the  folds  to  be  made  lengthways,  not  quite  meeting  the  top, 
with  the  hemmed  edges  upwards  where  the  lines  are  marked.  The 
napkin  is  supposed  to  be  doubled  in  half  agun  in  lilg.  17,  with  Che 
hema  outnide  at  the  line  a,  on  each  side  of  it;  then  fold  as  in  Fig. 


FOLDING  NAPKINa  5^ 

17,  first  one  side  and  then  the  other,  and  iron  down  the  crease;  then 
partly  unfold  one  side,  as  ehown-in  the  diagram,  Fig.  18.  The 
dotted  lines  mark  the  creases  in  the  unfolded  part,  and  c  and  c 
show  how  the  piece  marked  c,  in  Fig.  17,  is  tamed  down.  The 
piece  raised  ia  now  folded  down  agun,  the  dotted  line,  creased, 
passed  over  the  other  side,  and  the  ends  tncked  in  and  creased 
down  flat.  The  napkin  now  resembles  Fig,  19.  Arch  it  nicely 
over  the  dinner  roll,  and  put  a  spray  of  floweis  at  the  top  to 
resemble  the  feather  in  a  cooked  hat,  in  the  manner  shown  in 
Fig.  20. 

The  Basest. — Fold  a  napkin  twice,  like  Figs.  14  and  16,  once 
longways,  and  the  second  time  across.     This  is  to  reduce  its  size. 


HcBL 
Tig.  81. 

Fold  the  four  points  to  the  centre,  like  Fig.  7;  tnm  it  over  on  the 
other  side,  and  again  fold  the  fonr  points  to  the  centre;  again  turn 
it  face  downwards,  and,  with  the  other  side  up,  turn  back  the  four 
comers.  Fig.  21;  fold  it  from  a  to  b.  Fig.  21,  and  c  to  i>,  both  folds 
to  be  made  keeping  the  part  uppermost  outwards.  Open  the  last 
fold  from  c  to  n,  and  bring  the  shoulder  b  to  the  shoulder  d  by  a 
fold  at  the  dotted  line  between  b.  Repeat  the  same  fold  as  that  at 
B  all  round.  The  napkin  will  now  stand  on  end  as  a  basket,  by 
standing  it  on  its  legs  at  e  and  the  other  three  comers,  and  opening 
it  back  at  f,  in  the  way  shown  by  Fig.  24.  Fill  the  spaces  with  a 
few  flowers,  or  cat  the  roll  in  four,  put  a  portion  in  each,  and  just 
a  flower  or  two.     This  pattern  placed  the  reverse 'way  on  the  plate 


BwO  FOLDING  NAPKINS. 

also  looks  well,  the  dinDcr  roU  in  the  centre  oataide,  Fig,  23;  it 
requires  the  napkin  to  be  very  stiff,  and  exact  in  the  folding.  Id 
Fig.  22  the  bread  is  to  be  placed  underneath. 

The  Mitrb.— First  fold  the  napkin  in  half;  then  fold  down  the 
corners  as  shown  in  Fig.  26;  turn  these  corners  down  ^ain,  to 
meet  in  the  middle,  which  ia  indicated  by  a  dotted  line.  The  nap- 
kin now  looks  like  Fig.  2iJ.  Fold  this  in  half  at  the  dotted  line  in 
the  centre,  bringing  the  two  points  back  to  back,  for  the  fold  ia 


Z\ 


made  outwards.  Fig.  2?  is  the  i-esnlt.  Fold  over  the  two  ends  a 
and  B,  and  produce  Fig,  28.  Let  down  the  point  C  in  Fig.  27,  and 
fold  the  comere  inside  it;  fold  back  c  in  its  place  again,  turn  the 
napkin  over,  and  let  down  the  jwint  like  c  on  the  other  side. 
The  napkin  now  resembles  Fig.  29.  Fold  it  down  at  the  dotted 
lines,  turning  the  points  a  and  b  towards  c.  Fig.  30  is  the  figure 
now  represented;  a  is  the  point  let  down;  turn  it  up  again  to  b; 
slip  the  hand  inside  the  hollow  underneath  the  napkin,  and  shi^w 
.the  mitre  nicely,  and  then  place  it  over  the  dinner  roll,  lilfb  Fig.  31. 


FOLDmO  NAPKINa  BQl 

The  Shbll. — Thia  is  another  very  pretty  and  marked  device. 
I^y  tbe  napkin  flat  on  a  table,  and  fold  two  sides  to  meet  in 
the  centre  lengthways,  like  Fig.  36;  fold  it  across  the  centre,  and 
bring  the  side  a  a^  to  meet  the  side  s  B.  ■  The  hems  are  kept  inside 
in  this  fold.     The  long  narrow  piece  thns  formed  must  be  folded 
in  six  equal  pieces,  and  pressed  close.     It  now  resembles  Fin.  44. 
Partly  open  it,  and  turn  down  the  tops  ol 
the  fold  is  double,  in  the  manner  show 
turn  these  down  better  if  the  lower  en 
When  these  corners  are  turned  down,  dr 
pinch  it  firmly  aa  a  fan,  and  then  set  it 
two  end  folds  level  with  the  plate,  like  E 


it  stands  well.  It  is  a  very  pretty  addi 
each  scallop  of  the  shell  a  small  flower 
niums  look  exceedingly  well. 

Thk  Victoria  Rbgia. — Fold  a  napki 

half,  lengthways,  keeping  the  hems  to 

time,  also  lengthways;  then  set  it  in  tw 

the  shell  was  made,  only  the  napkin  is 

and  there  are  twice  as  many  folds.     Th( 

(Fig.  35)  as  they  were  for  the  shell,  begi 

'  undo  the  plaits  as  little  as  possible;  turn 

I  back,  to  make  the  first  row  of  petals;  tur 

I  same  way,  not  quite  so  far;  then  turn  d 

1 

\ 


693  FOLDING  KAPKlNa 

comes  next,  to  form  petftle  to  meet  those  already  made.  The  last 
fold  IB  not  turned  down  (see  Fig.. 40).  Bring  the  two  ends  of  the 
napsm  together  to  form  a  round;  the  inner  edges  are  thus  forced 
up  as  a  heart.  A  rosette  is  the  figure  formed,  and  the  rosette  rep- 
resents the  Victoria  Regia  (Fig.  33).  A  few  small  flowers,  or  even 
a  small  rose,  look  well  arranged  in  the  centre.     This  shape  is  diffi' 


cult  to  make,  and  requires  very  stiff  damask.     The  petals  need  to 
be  nicely  set  with  the  fingers,  to  resemble  it. 

To  fold  Fig.  68.  Fold  the  napkin  four  times  lengthways.  Fold 
down  one  end  as  obserred  at  a  in  Fig.  34 — not  to  the  centre  by  a 
couple  of  inches.  Fold  again  at  the  dotted  line  b.  Roll  the  end  a 
as  shown  at  c.  Fig.  48  illustrates  the  process.  Fig.  58  shows  the 
complete  design. 


FOLDING  NAPKma 


593 


The  Tiaba. — Double  the  napkin  four  times  lengthways.  Fold 
down  each  comer,  as  shown  in  Fig.  39.  Then  fold  by  the  linos 
across  c  j>,  and  represent  Fig.  53.     Push  the  folds  close  together. 


Fig,  6& 


Fig.  48. 


Fig.  58. 


Fold  in  half  at  the  centre  line  and  tuck  in  the  comers.  Open  the 
design  by  placing  the  hand  inside.  It  must  resemble  Fig.  52  when 
complete. 


GLOSSARY  OF  TERMS  USED  IN  COOKING. 


Assums.~SmAU  eatrtes  not  more  than 
a  plate  wUl  oontain. 

Atbur.— A  small  silver  skewer. 

An  Blbu.— A  French  term  applied  to  fish 
boiled  in  white  wine  with  flavors. 

An  Oius.— Dressed  with  meat  gravy. 

▲u  Jus.— In  the  natural  juice,  or  gravy. 

Au  Natubsx^— Plain,  simple  cookery. 

Baba..— Veiy  light  plom-cake,  or  sweet 
French  yeast  cake. 

Bain-Marze.— Anopen  vessel  which  has  a 
loose  bottom  for  the  reception  of  hot  water. 
It  is  used  to  keep  sauces  nearly  at  the  boil- 
ing point  without  reduction  or  burning.  ^ 
•  Babdc— A  thin  slice  of  bacon  fat  placed 
over  any  substance  specially  requiring  the 
assistance  of  fat  without  larding. 

Battbrix  db  CtrxsuTB.— Complete  set  of 
booking  apparatus. 

Bavaboibb  1  l'bau.— Tea  sweetened  with 
^yrup  of  capillaire,  and  flavored  with  a  little 
orange-flower  water. 

Bavaboibb  au  Lait.— Hade  in  the  same 
way  as  the  above,  but  with  equal  quantities 
of  milk  and  tea. 

BfioHAXEL.— A  rich  white  French  sauce. 

Bbzqnxt,  or  Friitbr  (tee  Fritter). 

BisquB.— A  soup  made  of  shell-flsh. 

Blano.— White  broth  used  to  give  a  more 
delicate  appearance  to  the  flesh  of  fowl, 
lamb,  etc. 

Blanch.— Placing  anytiiing  on  the  flre  in 
•cold  water  until  it  boils,  and  after  straining 
it  off,  plunging  it  Into  cold  water  for  the 
purpose  of  rendering  it  white.  Used  to 
whiten  poultry,  vegetables,  etc. 

Blavqubttb.— A  fricass6e  usually  made  of 
thin  slices  of  white  meat,  with  white  sauce 
thickened  with  egg  yolk. 

Blondb  db  Vbav.— Double  veal  broth  used 
to  enrich  soups  and  sauoes. 


Boudxk.— A  delicate  compound  made  o) 
quenelle  forcemeat. 

BoniLLX.— Beef  which  has  been  boiled  in 
making  broth. 

BouiLLiB.— A  French  dish  resembling  that 
called  hasty  pudding. 

Bouillon.— The  common  soup  of  France. 

BouquBT  or  Hbbbs.— Parsley,  thyme,  and 
green  onions  tied  together. 

BouquBT  Qabnl— The  same  thing  as  Fa- 
got, which  see.  * 

BoxTBauzQNOTB.- A  rsgoilt  of  traflHes. 

Braisb.— Meat  cooked  in  a  closely-covered 
stewpan  to  prevent  evaporati(»i,  so  that  the 
meat  retains  not  only  its  own  juices,  but 
those  of  any  oUier  articles,  such  as  baoon, 
herbs,  roots  and  spice  put  with  it. 

BRAisiiatB.  —A  saucepan  with  ledges  to  the 
lid,  so  that  it  will  contain  firing. 

Brxdbr.— To  truss  fowls  with  a  needle  and 
thread. 

Brioohb.— A  sponge  cake  similar  to  Bath 
bu^s. 

BuissoM.— A  cluster  or  bush  of  small  pastry 
piled  on  a  dish. 

Callzpaso.— The  glutinous  portion  of  the 
turtle  found  in  the  upper  shell. 

Callipbb.— The  glutinous  meat  of  the 
turtle's  under  shell. 

Cannblons.— Small  rolls  or  oollars  of 
mincemeat,  or  of  rioe  and  pastry  with  fruit. 

Capilotadb.— A  Mbsh  of  poultry. 

Oassbrolb.— The  form  of  rice  to  be  filled 
with  a  fricassee  of  white  meat  or  a  pur6a  <^ 
game;  also  a  stewpan. 

CrvBT.—A  dark,  thicklah  stew  of  hare  or 
venison. 

Ck>iiPxtaNB.— Sweet  French  yeast  cake» 
with  fruit. 

CoMPftTB.— Fruits  stewed  in  syrop.  There 
are  also  compdtes  of  small  birds. 

OoNvrn7RBS.~Sweetmeats  of  8agan,fnil1a» 
Qyrups,and 


594 


■  x^ 


GLOSSARY  OF  TERMS  USED  IN  COOKINO. 


5gff 


OosbommA.— Strong,  clear  grayy  obtained 
"Xxj  stewlngj  meat  for  a  considerable  length 
-of  time. 

Ck>mjs.— A  rich,  smooth  gravy  used  for 
coloring,  flavoring,  and  thickening  certain 
floups  and  sauces. 

Cbo^ubttbs.— A  savory  mince  of  flah, 
meat,  or  fowl,  made  with  a  little  sauce  into 
various  shapes,  rolled  in  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs, and  fried  crisp. 

CJouBOKMX,  En.— To  serve  any  prescribed 
articles  on  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a  crown. 

Cbodbtaclbs.— Also  known  as  Dresden 
patties.  They  are  composed  of  mince  en- 
cased In  paste,  and  moulded  into  various 
forms. 

Cboustaobs.— Fried  forms  of  bread  to 
serve  minces  or  other  meat  forms. 

Cbodton.— A  sippet  of  bread  fried,  and 
-used  for  gunish. 

CuisnfB  BiA8(3utB.— Highly  seasoned  or 
unusually  mixed  dishes. 

CuissoN.— Method  of  cooking  meats,  or 
the  liquor  in  which  they  have  been  boiled. 

Dariolb.— A  sweet  p^t6  baked  in  a  mould. 

Daubs.— Meat  or  fowl  stewed  in  sauce. 

DaubiAbb.- An  oval  stewpan. 

D&rKuiOEB  A.  LA  FouBcmETTB.— Breakfast 
with  meats,  wines,  etc. 

D&308SSB.— To  bone. 

DoBXTBB.— Yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  for 
covering  meats  and  other  dishes. 

EntbAs.  —  A  comer  •  dish  for  the  first 
course. 

Entbhot.— A  side-dish  for  the  second 
.course. 

EsoALOPSS.— OoUops. 

EsPAGNOLE.- Arich  brown  Spanish  sauce. 

Faoot.— A  small  bimch  of  parsley  and 
:thyme  tied  up  with  a  bay-leaf . 

Fabob.- Forcemeat. 

Fsuiixbtaqb.— Puff  paste. 

FiNANGi&BB.— An  expensive,  highly  fla- 
vored mixed  ragoi^t. 

Flambxb.— To  singe  fowl  or  game  after 
picking. 

Flak.— A  French  custard. 

Flancs.— The  side-dishes  of  large  dinners. 

FoNCEB.— To  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  sauce- 
pan thin  slices  of  veal  or  bacon. 

Fonoub.— A  light  and  pleasant  prei>ara- 
tion  of  cheese. 

Fbioandbaux  may  be  made  of  any  boned 
pieces  of  veal  chiefly  cut  from  the  thick 


part  of  the  flUet,  and  of  not  more  than  twa 
or  three  pounds  weight. 

FbioabsAb.— Chickens,  etc.,  cut  in  pieces 
in  a  white  sauce,  with  trufBeSj  mushrooms, 
etc.,  as  accessories. 

Fbittbb.— Anything  encased  tn  a  covering 
of  batter  or  eggs,  and  fiied. 

Oatbau.— A  pudding  or  baked  cake. 

Gauffbbs.— A  light,  spongy  sort  of  biscuit. 

Qlaze.— Stock  boiled  down  to  the  thick- 
ness of  jelly,  and  used  to  improve  the  ap< 
pearance  of  braised  dishes. 

Gooiybaux.— Various  varieties  of  force' 
meat. 

Qbas.— With,  or  of  meat;  the  reverse  of 
maigre. 

Gratin.— An  Gratin.— A  term  applied  to 
certain  dishes  prepared  with  sauce  and 
baked. 

Gbatznbb.— To  cook  like  a  grill. 

Habicot.— So  called  from  the  French 
word  for  beans,  with  which  the  dish  was 
originally  made.  Now  understood  as  any 
thick  stew,  or  ragodt  of  mutton,  beef,  or 
veal,  cut  in  pieces,  and  dressed  with  vege- 
tables and  roots. 

HoBS-D*aEuyRB8.  —  Small  dishes  of  sar- 
dines, anchovies,  and  other  relishes. 

LabdiniAbb.— Vegetables  stewed  down  in 
their  own  sauce. 

Laboon.— The  piece  of  bacon  used  in  lard- 
ing. 

Liaison.- The  mixture  of  egg  and  cream 
used  to  thicken  white  soups,  etc.. 

Lit.— Thin  slices  in  layers. 

Luting.— A  paste  to  fasten  lids  on  pie- 
pans  for  preserving  game. 

Maoblibnbs.— Small  plum  cakes. 

Maiobb.— Without  meat 

Marinade.— The  liquor  in  which  fish  or 
meat  is  steeped. 

Mask.— To  cover  meat  with  any  rich  sauce, 
ragoilit,  etc. 

Matelote.— A  rich  fish  stew  with  wine. 

Mayonnaise.- Cold  sauce,  or  salad  dress- 
ing. 

Mazarines,  or  Turbans.— Ornamental  en- 
tries of  forcemeat  and  fillets  of  poultry, 
game,  or  fish. 

Menu.  —The  bill  of  fare. 

MBBiNauB.- Light  pastry  made  of  sugar 
and  the  white  of^eggs  beaten  to  "  snow." 

BfioNONNXTTE  PBFPBB.^Ooarsely  ground, 
peppercorns. 


'  I 


596 


GLOSSARY  OP  TERMS  USED  IN  COOKING. 


KisoTOV.— Small  thin  Blices  of  meat  about 
as  lan^e  as  a  crown  piece  made  into  ra^dts 
of  various  kinds,  and  dished  up  in  a  circular 
form. 

MouiLLBa.->To  add  broth,  water  or  other 
liquid  while  the  cooking  is  proceeding. 

NoooAT.— Almond  candy. 

NonujLBB.— Strips  of  paste  made  of  eggs 
and  flour. 

Pamaoa.— Soaked  bread  used  in  the  pre- 
paration of  French  forcemeat. 

Panbb.— To  coTer  with  bread  -crumbs  fried 
or  baked  food. 

Papillotb,  Em.— The  pieces  of  paper 
greased  with  oil  and  butter,  and  fastened 
round  a  cutlet,  etc.,  bj  twisting  it  along  the 
edge. 

Pat*.— ▲  small  pie. 

Paopibtatss.— Slices  of  meat  rolled. 

Fiicm  DM  RisisTANOK.  —  The  principal 
joint  of  the  dinner. 

Pilau.— ▲  dish  of  meat  and  rice. 

PiQUUL— To  lard  with  strips  of  bacon  fat, 
etc. 

PoKLtx.— Stock  for  boiling  turkeys,  fowls, 
vegetables,  instead  of  water,  so  as  to  render 
them  less  insipid. 

PoTAQS.- Soup. 

PnnrTAKiSBS.— Early  spring  Tegetable& 

Pbofitkiiollbs.— Light  pastry  creamed 
inside. 

PubAb.— The  name  given  to  soup,  the  in- 
gredients for  thickening  which  have  been 
passed  through  a  sieve,  then  thinned  with 
broth  to  the  proper  consistency.  Meat  and 
fish  are  cooked  and  pounded  in  a  mortar, 
roots  and  vegetables  are  stewed  till  soft  in 
order  to  prepare  them  for  being  thus  con- 
verted to  a  smooth  pulp. 

QuBKELLES.— Forcemeat  of  various  kinds 
composed  of  fish  or  meat,  with  bread,  yolk 
of  egg,  and  some  kind  of  fat,  seasoned  in 
different  ways,  formed  with  a  spoon  to  an 
oval  shape,  then  poached  in  stock  and  used 
either  as  garnish  to  entr6es,  or  to  be  served 
separately. 

Ragout.— A  rich  sauce,  with  sweetbreads, 
mushrooms,  truffles,  etc.,  in  it^ 


seooPQ 


RblbvAs.- The  remove  dishes. 

lUbfouLADB.— Salad-dreasiDg. 

RiFACiMBirro.— Meat   dressed    a 
time. 

RI8S0LB.— A  mince  of  fish  or  meat, 
closed  in  paste,  or  formed  into  balls  and 
other  shcpes.  Used  either  as  side-dishes  or 
garnish.    (See  alto  Fricassees.) 

RdTL— Boast  meat. 

Roux.— A  mixture  of  butter  and  flour 
used  for  thickening  white  soups  and  gravy, 

Salki.  — A  hash  of  game  cut  up  and 
dressed  when  only  half  roasted. 

Saktox.— To  dress  with  sauce  in  the  sauce- 
pan by  keeping  it  in  motion. 

Saucb  Piquant.— a  sharp  sauce  in  which 
lemon  and  vinegar  predominate  as  a  flavor. 

SautA-pa:;.— A  thin-bottomed,  shallow 
pan  for  quick  frying. 

Sauter.— To  toss  over  the  fire  in  a  saut6' 
pan  with  a  small  quantity  of  fat  only. 

SsaviETTB,  k  LA.--*Served  in  a  napkin. 

Sippets.— Small  pieces  of  bread  cut  inta 
various  shapes,  eitlier  soaked  in  stock, 
toasted,  or  fried,  to  serve  with  meats  as 
garnishing  or  borders. 

SouftlA.— A  light  pudding. 

Stock.— The  broth  of  which  soups  arr 
made. 

Tamis  or  "Tamht."— a  strainer  of  fine 
woollen  canvas,  used  for  straining  Boups  and 
sauces. 

Tubale.— A  sort  of  pie  made  in  a  mould. 

ToURTB.— A  tart  baked  in  a  shallow  tin. 

Triflx.— A  second-course  dish,  made  of 
sponge  cake,  macarooi^  jams,  etc.,  brandy 
or  wine,  and  liqueurs. 
■  Trousser.— To  truss  a  bird. 

Turbans  {aee  Mazarines). 

Vakker,  To.— To  make  a  sauce  smooth  by 
rapidly  lifting  it  high  in  large  8poonfuls,and' 
allowing  it  to  fall  quickly  again  for  some 
time. 

VsLouTt.— Rich  sauce  used  to  heighten- 
the  flavor  of  soups  and  made  dishes. 

VoirAU-VEBT.— A  li;;ht  puff  paste,  col 
round  or  oval,  enclosing  any  delicate  minoo' 
meat- 


CONTENTS. 


L  BBBAD-Mixiva.  Pags 

Bread 7 

Teast  that  will  not  sour 8 

A  good  reliable  yeast 9 

Another  good  yeast 0 

Qood  home-made  bread 0 

Teast  bread 10 

Potatobread  (8) 11 

Milk-sponge  bread 11 

Salt-rising  bread  Oi) 12 

Com  bread 18 

Com  bread  (8} 18 

Orandmothers  Indian  bread 18 

Quick  Graham  bread 18 

Baking-powder  Graham  bread 18 

Brown  bread  of  Graham  flour. 14 

Graham  bread  (8). 14 

Brown  bread 14 

Brown  bread 15 

Boston  brown  bread 16 

Rye  bread 15 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread. 16 

§{re  bread  with  baking-powder Id 

oyleton  bread 16 

Norwegian  bread  for  dyspeptics 16 

Oatmeal  bread 17 

Bice  bread. 17 

n.  BbBAKFABT  IKD  TxA  Cakxs. 

Light  biscuit 18 

Butter  biscuit 18 

€kxla  biscuit 18 

Dixie  biscuit 18 

Baking-powder  biscuit 19 

Cream  of  tartar  biscuit 19 

English  biscuit 19 

Graham  biscuit 19 

Cold  biscuit 90 

Buns  (8) 20 

Cinnamon  cake 80 

Graham  cakes 81 

Rye  drop  cakes 81 

Com  cakes 81 

Johnny  cake 81 

Newport  breiJcftot  cakes 81 

Potato  cakes. 81 

Oriddle  Cakes. 

fitale  bread  griddle  cakes 28 

Com  meal  griddle  cakes 88 

Rice  griddle  cakes 22 

IHour  griddle  cakes 83 

Green  com  eriddle  cakes. ti 

AHniiqr  griddle  cakes. 82 


Pao« 

Cmmb  com  cakes s.  88 

Flannel  cakes 88 

Buckwheat  cakes 88 

Graham  griddle  cakes. 83 

Squash,  pumpkin,   and  apple  griddle 

cakes 88 

Berry  griddle  cakes 88 

i;gg  cracknels. 84 

Oatmeal  crackere 84 

Graham  crackers. 84 

Crura  pets. 86 

London  crumpets 86 

Kentucky  com  dodgers 86 

FritterM, 

Green  com  fritters  (8) , 96 

Apple  frittere 96 

Celery  fritters 86 

Oyster  fritters 86 

Clam  fritters 87 

Lobster  fritters. 87 

Rice  fritters 87 

Blackberry  fritters 87 

OeniB. 

Graham  gems  (3) 88 

Cold  water  gems. 88 

Mixed  gems 88 

Oatmeal  gems. 88 

Mujftna. 

Muffins  (8) 89 

Rice  flour  mufiLas 89 

Rice  muffins 89 

Graham  muffins  (8) 80 

Com  meal  muffins. 80 

Muah, 

Commeal  mush. SO 

OfUmeal  mush. 80 

Cracked  wheat  mush 80 

Cracked  wheat  mush 81 

Fried  mush  for  breakfast 81 

Horainy 81 

Ftiffs, 

Puff* 31 

Graham  puffs  (8) 31 

Oatmeal  puffs. 82 

Potato  puffs. 82 

Cream  puffs. 82 

Puffets. ^ 

Prorerbs. •  ■  •  2 

Pocket  books 88 


..•it- 


597 


i 


608 


CONTENTS. 


BotU.  Paqb 

How  to  make  rolls (8) ^..  88 

Ciimamon  roIlB 88 

Parker  House  rolls 88 

White  Mountain  roUs. 84 

Oatmeal  rolls. 84 

Vienna  twist  rolls 84 

Italian  rolls. 85 

Orsham  breakfost  rolls 85 

French  roUs 85 

Tremont  House  rolls 85 

Rosettes 86 

ButikB, 

Swetot  rusks  (8) 86 

Busks 86 

Baking-powder  rusks. 87 

Scones 87 

Scotch  scones 87 

Sally  Innn 87 

Sally  lunn 88 

PlalB  short  cake 88 

Scotch  shOTt  cake 88 

8amdwiehe$, 

Ham  sandwiched. 88 

Egg  sandwiches. 80 

Sardine  sandwiches 89 

School  lunch  sandwiches. 80 

Oyster  sandwiches 80 

Tongue  or  ham  sandwichM 89 

Totut. 

Cream  toast 40 

Breakfast  toast 40 

Cheese  and  egg  toast 40 

Ham  toast 40 

Spanish  toast 41 

lYiedbread 41 

Waffl4i9. 

Waffles  (4). 41 

Bread  waffles 43 

Ricewaffles. 42 

Graham  wafers. .     42 

Sweet  wafers 42 

m.  Cake. 

Almond  cake  (2) 48 

Adelaide  cake 43 

Apple  cake 44 

Angers  food 44 

Andalusia  sponge  cake 44 

Black  fruit  cake 44 

Bridecake(2) 45 

Bread  cake 45 

Black  cake 46 

Bridgeport  cake 46 

Butternut  cake 46 

Boston  cream  cake 46 

Oocoanut  cake 46 

Cocoanut  cake 47 

Chocolate  cake 47 

Corn  starch  cake  (2) 47 

Coffee  cake 48 

Chocolate  eclaires. 48 

Charlotte  cachee 48 

Cider  cake. 48 


Faoc 

Cake  without  eggs. 49 

Cream  puffs. 49^ 

Citron  caka 40 

Cream  cak* 49 

Chocolate  cake 49 

Christmascake 50 

Cinnamon  cake 60 

Cinnamon  cake. 61 

Cupcake 61 

Cocoanut  pound  cake 51 

doTe  cake 61 

Delicate  cake 51 

Delicious  cake. 62 

Drop  cake 52' 

Dough  cake. 58 

Dover  cake SSt 

Dundee  cake 62 

Driedapple  cake 68 

Election  cake 68 

Every-day  fruit  cake 68 

Eggless  cake 68 

English  Christmas  cake 68 

Fruit  cake  from  dough. 54 

Fruitcake (2) 54 

Fruit  iellv  cake. 64 

Favorite  lemon  jelly  cake 1 65 

Figcake(8) 65 

French  loaf  cake 55 

Feathercake 65 

Feather  cake 66 

QoMcake 66 

Qentl«nan's  cake 56 

Ginger  drop  cake 66 

Ginger-bread  loaf. 56- 

Ginger-bread 57 

Soft  ginger-bread  (2) 57 

Ginger  cup  cake. 67 

Groom^s  cake 57 

Graham  cup  cake 68 

Hickoxy-nut  cake 68 

Hickory-nut  drop  cake 58 

Hucklebeny  cake 58 

Honey  cake 88 

Imperial  cake 50' 

Ice  cream  cake 50 

Jelly  cake 50 

JeUyroUs » 

Kafree  Kuchen 60 

Knickerbocker  cake 60 

Lemon  cake  (2) 60 

Lemon  jelly  cake 60 

Lady  cake 61 

Lunch  cake. 61 

Lightcake « 

Loaf  cake 61 

Marbled  cake 61 

Mountain  cake ^ 

Madeira  cake. . .  — 62 

Molasses  cake  (2) 62 

Marbled  chocolate  cake 63 

Moreton  farm  cake 63- 

Nut  d^e §6 

Nut  cake W 

White  nut  cake 64 

Neapolitan  cake 64 

Lady  Angers 64 

Orange  cake  (2) ^ 

Perfection  cake 65 

Pork  cake 68 

Portuguese  cake 66 

Puff  cake 69' 


: 


CONTENTS. 


599 


Paob 

Pine-apple  cake 66 

Poundcake  without  soda 67 

Oocoanut  pound  cake 67 

Poundcake   '. 67 

Plum  cake 67 

Incy  cake 67 

leen  cake 68 

Iroad  cake 68 

Reception  cake 68 

Rice  cake , 68 

Rochester  jelly  cake 68 

Silver  cake 60 

Snow  cake. 69 

Swiss  cake 69 

Sponge  cake,  Delicious 69 

Sponge  cake  with  hot  water. 70 

l^onge  cake 70 

Sponge  cake,  White 70 

Sultana  cake 70 

Spice  cake 71 

Seedcake 71 

Tunbridge  cake 71 

Taylor  cake 71 

Wedding  cake 71 

Wedding  cake 78 

Vainlla  cake 74 

Washington  cake * 74 

Winecake 76 

Webster  cake 75 

Watermelon  cake 76 

White  cake 75 

Yule  cake 76 

CnillersO)  76 

Cookies,  Jumbles^  and  Snaps. 

Almond  cookies 76 

Almond  cookies 77 

Cocoanut'cookles 77 

Cookies  (8). 77 

Cream  cookies. 77 

Cookies  (2) 78 

Eggless  cookies 78 

Qmger  cookies 78 

Oninam  cookies 78 

Molasses  cookies 78 

Sugar  cookies 79 

Hickory-nut  cookies. 79 

Sand  tarts 79 

Jumbles  (2) 79 

Ginger  snaps  (2) 79 

Ginger  snaps 80 

Doughnuts 80 

Doughnuts  without  6gg 80 

DoughniJlli  raised 80 

Cream  doughnuts 80 

FHed  cakes 81 

Snowballs,  white 81 

rV.  GSKAMB  AND  CUSTARDS. 

Applesnow. 82 

Apple  float 88 

Almond  cream 88 

Bavaroise 82 

Blanc  mange 88 

Cream  H  la  mode 88 

CofFee  cream; 83 

Bavarian  cream. 88 

Chocolate  Bavarian  cream 84 

Caledonia  cream 84 


Paob 

Charlotte  Russe  elegante 84 

Ch^otte  Russe  (2) 84 

Fruit  Charlotte 86 

Genoese  cream 85 

Italian  cream 86 

Manioca  cream 86 

Russe  cream 86 

Rock  cream 86 

Spaniidi  cream 86 

fipioca  cream 86 

Whipped  cream  87 

Whipped  cream  sauce 87 

Almond  custard 87 

Apple  eustard 87 

Boiled  custard. 87 

Baked  custard 88 

Chocolate  custard 88 

Coffee  custard *. 88 

Com  starch  custard 88 

Cocoanut  custard 88 

Cold  cup  custard 89 

Caramel  custard 80 

Lemon  custard 80 

Moonshine 80 

Floating  island  (2) 90 

Irish  moss 00 

8uaking  custard 90 

range  snow 01 

V.  COKFBOnOIIEBT. 

General  directions OS 

Almond  candy 02 

Almond  creams 08 

Bon  Bons 02 

Butter  Scotch 08 

Boston  caramels 08 

Cream  cocoanut  candy 06 

Cocoanut  candy 08 

Cocoanut  caramels. 08 

Chocolate  caramels 08 

Chocolate  cream  drops 04 

Chocolate  kisses 04 

Fruit  candy 04 

Hickory-nut  candy 04 

Horehoimd  candy 94 

Lemon  cream  candy 95 

Lemon  and  peppermint  drops 95 

Molasses  candy 96 

White  molasses  candy 96 

Peanut  candy 96 

Pop  com  balls 97 

•My 97 

Eff erton  taffy 97 

Vinegar  candy  (2) 98 

Walnut  candy 98 

Meringues 06 

Cream  meringues 90 

Macaroons 09 

Bachelor  buttons 00 

Corn  starch  rateffes 09 

VI.  Catsups. 

Currant  catsup 100 

Cucumber  catsup 101 

Gooseberry  catsup 101 

Plum  catsup 101 

Tomato  catsup 101 

Tomato  catsup 102 

Mushroom  catsup  (See  *'  Mushrooms.") 


t500 


CONTENTa 


Vn.  DB88SVTB.  PaOB 

Puddings - t08 

To  yoiuxf;  housekeepers 10^ 

Arrowroot  pudding. 106 

Almond  pudding ICO 

Ple-pUtnt  Charlotte lOU 

Croquettes  of  rice 1 07 

Bombes  au  riz 107 

Green  com  pudding 108 

Cottage  pudding 108 

Cranberry  roll I'W 

Delmoiiico  pudding 108 

Eve's  pudding 100 

Fig  pudding 109 

Fruit  pudding. 100 

Baked  farina  pudding 100 

Plain  fruit  pudding. 109 

Florentine  pudding 110 

Qelatine  pudding 110 

Ginger  pudding 1 10 

Honeycomb  pudding 110 

Huckleberry  pudding Ill 

Hen's  nest Ill 

Indian  pudding Ill 

Apple  pudding Ill 

Apple  batter  pudding «...  Ill 

Apple  float 112 

Apple  slump 113 

Baked  apple  dumplings 112 

Apple  surprised 112 

Amber  pudding 1)3 

Ambrosia 1 13 

Apple  omelette 113 

Apple  Charlotte 113 

Bancroft  pudding 114 

Bread  pudding 114 

Banana  and  apple  tart 114 

Bird's  nest  pudding  (2) 114 

Cabinet  pudding 115 

Cream  batter  pudding 115 

Cracker  puddinz 115 

Chocolate  pudding 1 15 

Charlotte  pudding 115 

Cottage  pudding 116 

Custard  bread  pudding 116 

Cocoanut  pudding 116 

Cream  pudding 116 

Crumi>  pudding 117 

Irish  rock 117 

JeUy  rice 117 

Jelly  custard 118 

Jelly  tartlets 118 

Kiss  pudding 118 

Iieraon  pudding 1 18 

Lemon  trifle 118 

Lemon  pudding. 119 

Meringue  rice  pudding 119 

Malagan  pudding. 119 

Mitchell  pudding 119 

Maud's  pudding 119 

Orange  pudding 120 

Christmas  pbmi  pudding 120 

Plum  pudding 120 

English  plum  pudding 121 

Plum  pudding 121 

Rich  plum  pudding 121 

Baked  plum  pudding 122 

Poor  man's  pudding. 122 

Baisin  puffs. 122 

Boly  poly  pudding 122 


PlOB 

Bloe  pudding 188 

Sago  pudding. 128 

Suet  puddi  ng 123 

Steamed  pudding 128 

Snow  pudding 128 

S^«amed  pudding 184 

Strawberry  short-cake  (2). 124 

Tapioca  pudding  (2) 125 

To  3ookrice 125 

Vegetable  pudding 125 

Whipped  syllabubs 125 

Yankee  pudding 126 

Pudding  Sauces. 

Sweet  sauce 126 

Fruit  sauce 126 

Fruit  pudding  sauce. 126 

Arrowroot  sauce 127 

German  custard  sauoe 127 

Pudding  Sauce 127 

Puff  pacta 127 

Piecrust 128 

Good  and  cheap  pie  crust. 128 

Pie  crust  fflaae 129 

Pie  crust  lor  four  small  pies 129 

Tart  crust 129 

Icing  pastiy 129 

Pufrpaste  with  beef  Buet 130 

Apricot  pie 180 

Apple  pie 180 

Applecustard  pie 130 

Boiled  cider  plei 180 

Banana  pie 180 

Crackerple 181 

Chocolate  pie. 181 

Cocoanut  pie 131 

Jelly  custard 181 

Custard  pie. 181 

Cream  pie  (2) 188 

Custard  for  cream  pia 182 

l>eUcatepie :.  139 

Lemon  pie ISI 

Fruit  pie 182 

Lemon  pie. 138 

Mince  meat  (2). 188 

Mlncepie 188 

Mlnoepie 184 

Mince  meat  without  meat. 184 

Marlborough  pie m 134 

Orange  pie 185 

Cream  peach  pie 185 

Pine-apple  pie 185 

Pumpkm  pie 185 

Potato  pie 188 

Sweet  potato  pie  (2) 186 

Apple  or  pea<m  meringue  pie ]87 

Peach  pie 187 

Quince  pie. 187 

Cream  raspberry  pie 187 

Raisin  pie. 138 

Rhubaro  pie. 188 

Ricepie 188 

Squash  pie 188 

Vinegarple.. 138 

Tarts !• 


mbatitates 148 


A  good  Hummer diiiik... 
Cottage  beer. ............ 

Olnfcei' beer. 


Jellj  lemonade. . . 
QlDf^er  lemonade . 

BenTBherhet 

ExcKUflnt  mead. . . 


IX.  EooB  AUD  Oimxim. 


Breaded  egg* 

Beg  a  I&  mode 

How  lobaka  esR>- 

Egg  baskets.: 

To  pickle  esKB 

Scrambled  eggs.. . . 


Fine-apples 

A  nice  way  to  ptepare  apples. . . 
Tostew  iqjplea 


Candled  cheniei... 

Slewed  pear* 

Qlace  c&errlea 

CaiKUed  UmoD-peei 


Table  for  CI 

Canning  pine-apirie. . . 
Canning  ptnfrapple . . . 

Camilng  berrta 

Canning  peara. 

CanntDg  peacbes 

DtIhI  peachM 

xn.  Icia  u>D 


BnintBugar  io»«ca«m... 


StnwbetrraDd  laa^Mirrlc^^ream... 

Vanilla  loe^iream. .;,..... .',... 

Cocoanuc  Ice-cream 

Frozen  tapioca  custard. 

Frosea  rlcecustanl 

Frozen  sago  custard. 

Woter-lce« 

Charnr  water-ice  and  ni ' 
Btrawberry  waler-lci 
Kaspben?  w"~-  '— 


ClioculalalclDg  (E)... 

Chocolate  idng 

Clear  Idog  for  cake.. . 


Iclne  fc 
Tutrtfr 


loot  jam 

JarmaladeA  and  Jams. ........... 

Apple  lams 

Berry  or  curraot  jam 

Oruie,  gooeeberry,  or  plum  Jam, 

Apple  marmalade 

Oranfte  marmalade — 

Fln»-apple  marmalade 


Plum  marmaJade. 


ikin  marmalade. . . 


Pumpkin  mi 


XV. 


4  la  proTtncaie. 
.AlacrSinA 
I,  baked. 

curried 

mruoDt. 

s 

UtutiroomB,  to  plckie  <,kj 

XVL    PICIKI.CB. 

Retnarfca. 

Pickled  artlchotBs. 

Pickled  butMniuU  and  waluuta 

Pickled  beana. 

Pickled  beeu 

Pickled  broccoli  

BotUed  ^cUm 

Har^'a  pilled  blackberrlea 

To  put  up  cucumben  In  Mue. 

TloElad  cabbage  <S) 

PlckladcsuUlowerttJ 

PlcUed  cocombera 

Chow-chow  (21 

Pickled  oherriea 

pWuch  plcklea 

Pickled  crapea  (!) 

To  hanlea  picklee 

Lemon  plcklea. 

Uangoes  of  melanB. 

ImltatloD  pickled  xaasgDea. 

Pickled  aasturUunu. 

Pickled  oDlooB  («) 

Plcklee.. 

StulTed  peppei? 

Mixed  pIcklBe  (SI : 

India  ploklea. 

Pypor  pickles 4. 

RaKaa  picklea SI 

8woet[Mokle« 

Bweet  apple  pickles 

Bweet  tomaCo  pickles. 

Oreen  lomato  pickles 

PloaUIll 

PlckleMe 

Bplced  Tlneear  for  pickles  Kenerallr. 

FIckled  peacbea 

Ptckled  peaches  Ukat  wlU  keep 

To  pickle  pluma 

Oreen  tomato  eoy 

To  keep  tomaloes  whole 

Ptckledtomalcea 

O&OQ    . 

Cuirant.. __ 

CltroD  preserre*.. 


--purple  plai 

Preserred  pears. 

Preiarved  peaches... 
"~"Tidy  peaches.. . 


Quince  presarrea. . . 
Preeening  stnwbe 


Beela  and  pobUoea.. 

BeanB,atrlng 

Bruaasls  nirouU. 

Carrota,  ■fewed 


CfHiTT.tned 

Otitrj,  Slewed 

Cabbace,  oream. 

Cabbage  blacanliOower... 

Cabbwe,  boiled 

Cabbage,  baked 

Cauliflower 

CauiUower  kla 


Own  orsters 

Oom,  Btewad 

Cucumbers,  stewed. . 


..Jf.'.'.  es 


Celery,  tried. 

Oamrts... •«. 

C;arrota.  boiled. ik ^^ 

Dandelion ^W SM 

Endive.  Btewed. SM 

Eeg  plant  (fi) at 

Egg  plant,  frtcassted SN 

EgE  plant,  BtuSed. SB 

Greena,  atewed..- SK 

Horse-radish  as  ganilsh Vtt 


Lettnce,  stuKed... 


Page 

OnlonB,  scalloped 228 

Okra,  boUed 228 

Vegetable  oysters 228 

Mock  stewed  oysters 229 

Parsley 229 

Parsley,  crisp 229 

Parsley,  fried 229 

Parsnips 229 

Parsnips,  fried 2S0 

Parsnipstew 230 

Pease,  canned 280 

Pease,  French  way  of  cooking 290 

Pease,  green 281 

Potato  Dalls 281 

Potato  balls,  English 231 

Potatoes,  browned 281 

Potatoes,  southern  baked 232 

Potatoes,  cream 882 

Potato  croquettes 232 

Potato  cake 232 

Potatoes,  fried  (2) 283 

Potatoes,  mashed S33 

Potatoes,  surprised 834 

Potiato  puflf 234 

Potato  pie. 284 

Potato,  pur6e  of. 284 

Potato  loaves 234 

Potatoes,  Saratoga. 285 

Potatoes,  Lyonnadse 285 

Potatoes,  old  835 

Potatoes,  tossed 885 

Potatoes,  sweet 886 

Potatoes,  sweet,  baked. 886 

A  farmer's  dainty  dish 836 

Rice  as  a  vegetable 886 

Succotash 837 

Spinach 887 

Spinach,  cream  of 837 

Squash,  winter 887 

Squash,  stuffed 837 

Turnips 888 

Turnips,  mashed 8S8 

Tomatoes  &  la  crdme 888 

Tomatoes,  browned 888 

Tomatoes,  baked 888 

Tomatoes,  baked 839 

Tomatoes,  broiled 839 

Tomatoes,  fried.. 889 

Tomatoes,  scalloped 830 

Tomatoes,  stuffed 889 

FroKsh  butter  for  frying  vegetables. 840 

Rjpis  for  cooking  vegetables M) 

IP         XIX.  Fish. 

Remarks. 242 

Fish,  baked 244 

Fish,  to  boU 844 

Fish,  boiled 844 

Fish,  baked  black 244 

Trout,  brook. 844 

Flounders. 845 

Halibut 245 

Perch,  eels,  and  small  pike 245 

Eels,  potted 245 

Eels,  collared 246 

Sturgeon 246 

CSod's  head 246 

Codfish,  fresh 248 

Ck>dflsh,  salt 248 

Codflshballs 248 


»*    .       ,       ,  Paok 

Mackerel,  salt 248 

Cod,  baked 840 

Pike,  boiled 249 

Turbot 850 

Whiteflsh,  to  fry '.  260 

Salmbn HQO 

XX.  Sekll  Fish. 

Clams 251 

Clam  bake 251 

Clam  chowder 261 

Clam  fritters 252 

Clams,  fried 252 

Clam  pie 252 

Clam  stew 852 

Clam  soup 268 

Cfabs 258 

Crabs,  soft. 258 

Crabs,  scalloped. , 254 

Frogs 254 

Lobster  croquettes 264 

Lobster  cutlet 264 

Lobsters,  fried 265 

Lobster  patties 856 

Lobster  rissoles 265 

Lobster  salad 865 

Lobster,  broiled 255 

Lobsters  en  brochette 266 

Lobsters,  roasted. 256 

Lobsters,  gratia  of 256 

Oysters,  broiled. 256 

Oyster  chowder 857 

Oyster  croquettes 857 

Oysters,  fricasseed 857 

Oysters,  fried 867 

Oysters,  fried 85a 

(^rster  and  chicken  pie 858 

Oysters,  scidloped 858 

\  Oyster  stew.  Park  Row 858 

'.Oysters,  Maryland  stewed 259 

(^sters,  plain  stew 859 

Oyster  sauce 259 

Oyster  pie 259 

Casters,  pickled 260 

Oyster  patties 260 

Oyster  x>ot-pie 260 

C^rsters,  roasted 260 

Oysters,  fancy  roast 260 

Oysters  &  la  Poulette 261 

Oysters,  raw 261 

Oysters  with  toast 281 

Caster  flavor 261 

Oysters,  new  way  of  preparing 261 

ScaUops 262 

Terrapins,  or  water  turtles 262 


XXI.  Gamk. 


Qame,  to  select 

Birds,  to  pot 

Birds,  reed 

Birds,  reed.  &  la  Lindenthorpe 

Prairie  chickens,  roast 

Prairie  chicken 

Partridges,  pheasants,   and  quails, 

roast 

Quail  on  toast 

Quail,  or  woodcock,  to  broil 

Pigeon  pie 

Pigeon,  roast  (2) 

Pigeon  compote 


to 


284 
265 
285 
285 
266 
266 

266 
266 
267 

•j«r 


«  .. 


CONTENTS. 


60» 


\-  - 


604 


CONTENTS. 


Paob 

Duck,  wild. V s»9 

OooBe.wild : »W 

Hare,  roast 269 

Hare,  a  nice  way  to  prepare  oold 269 

Rabbit,  roast s»9 

Babbit,  with  herbs. fX9 

Venison  chops. 269 

Venison,  epicurean 270 

Venison  patties 870 

XZn.  Mabkctdio. 

Remarks— beef 871 

Sections  of  bullock 873 

Sections  of  sheep  and  Iamb 878 

Mutton 873 

l>ork 274 

Veal 874 

Veal,  section  of. 879 

Turkeys , 875 

Fowls. 275 

<3eeee 87B 

Ducks 8?B 

XXm.  Mbats. 

Beef,  aitchbone  of,  to  carre 277 

Bteak.  to  make  tough  tender 877 

Beef,  brisket  of,  to  carve 279 

Steak,  broiled  (8) 878 

Steak,  rump,  with  oyster  sauce 878 

Steak,  to  frv 879 

Steak,  German  way  of  frying 879 

Steak  smothered  with  onions. 879 

Steak  pie 879 

Beef,  ribs  of ,  to  carve. 880 

Beef,  ribs  of,  to  roast 2H0 

Beef,  sirloin  of,  to  roast 880 

Beef,  sirloin  of,  to  carve 881 

Beef  balls 881 

Beef,mWtof 881 

Beef,  a  good  and  dieap  way  to  cook  ...  888 

Beef  &  la  mode 888 

Beef  pounded 283 

Beef  croquettes 883 

Beef,  devUed 283 

Beef  sausages 883 

Beefaugratin 284 

Beef  heart 284 

Beef,  dried,  in  cream 284 

Beef  omelette 284 

Beef  tongue,  broiled 284 

Beef,  to  boU 285 

Beef  tongue,  roasted 285 

Tripe 285 

Tripe  &  la  Lyonnaise  with  tomatoes 2A5 

Bullock's  heart,  roasted 886 

Cairs  heart,  roasted 286 

Cairs  heart,  fried 886 

Sheep*8  heart,  baked 287 

Sweetbreads 287 

Sweetbreads,  fried 287 

Sweetbreads,  baked 287 

Sweetbreads,  broiled 288 

Sweetbreads  and  cauliflower 288 

Sweetbreads,  tomato 288 

Kidneys,  broiled  or  roasted 289 

Kidneys,  stewed 889 

Liver,  fried 889 

Uver,  fried 890 

Lamb,  roast  miarter  of. 890 

JLamb  chops,  tried. 890 


PlOB 

Lambchops,  broiled 891 

Lamb,  stewed  with  green  pease. 891 

Lamb  cutlets 291 

Mutton,  boiled  breast  of 891 

Mutton,  haunch  of,  k  la  venison 891 

Mutton,  breast  of,  with  pease. 898 

Mutton,  curried 89i 

Mutton  chops. 298 

Mutton  cutlets  h  la  minute 898 

Mutton  cutlet  and  pur6e  of  potatoes. ...  898 

Mutton,  boUedleg  of 898 

Mutton  kebobed 894 

Mutton,  leg  of ,  tocarve 894 

Mutton,  leg  of,  roast 895 

Mutton  cutlets  with  Provencale  sauce..  896 

Pork,  to  keep  fresh  in  summer. 896 

Pork,  to  cook 896 

Pork,  belly,  rolled  and  boiled 897 

Fork  brawn 897 

Pork  chops,  broiled 898 

Pork  chops,  fried 298 

Pork  cutlets,  broUed. 898 

Pork,  leg  of.  good  a 
Pork  cutlets. Tried.. 


Pork,  boiled  leg  of,  with  pease  pudding.  89Q 

Pork  pies 899 

Pork,  roast  loin  of 800 

Pork  cake 80O 

Pork  sausage 800 

Pork  and  beans. 800 

Pressed  head 801 

Plg*sfeet,  boiled 801 

Pig*sfeet  cheese 801 

Pig,  to  roast  a  sucking 808 

Hams,  to  cure 80B 

Ham  pie 808 

Ham  tx>ned 808 

Ham  baked 808 

Ham  and  eggs 801 

Hamboilea 808 

Smoked  meat  on  toast 808 

Ham  baUs. 804 

Ham  garnished  and  omamoited 80t 

Ham,  toglase 804 

Veal,  oolIar«d  breast  of 804 

Veal,  boUed  breast  of 806 

Veal,  ragoClt  of  breast  of.-. 805 

Veal,  roasted  breastof 806 

Veal,  bubble  and  squeak  of. 806 

Veal  cake 306 

Veal  scallop *  806 

Cairs  head,  boUed 806 

Calf '8  brains  4  la  ravigote 807 

XXrV.  POULTRT. 

Chicken  saute  A  la  Marengo 806 

Capon  ranaque 800 

Chicken  fricassded 810 

Chicken  pie 810 

Chicken,  frying. 811 

Chicken  salad 811 

Chicken  croquettes 811 

Chicken,  baked 818 

Ch  cken,  a  nice  way  to  cook. 818 

Ch  cken  pudding 818 

Chicken  or  veal  Jellied 818 

Chicken  scaUoped 813 

Chicken  pot-pie 818 

Chicken  broiled 318 

Ducks&la  Franoaise 818 


Ducks,  bralaad... 


^WbSl!f.'! 


Turkey,  carrlns  of... 


Turkey  dnasad  with  oysMn. . . 

Turkey,  derUed 

Turkey  lOllop 


ng,  obMtiiut.... 
XIV.  I 


Salad,  arUohofca. 
Sidad,  bMtroot. . 
Salad,  chicken... 
Salad,  chicken... 


Salad,  endlre  wiOi  wliiur. . . 

Salad,  lettuce  (S) 

Salad,  lobeler 

salad,  some 

Salad,  oraun 

Salad,  potato  


XZV1.  Sadccs,  Sovpa  AKD  F08C 

Qeaeral  nmarks 

Stock... !~7. 

Soup,  bean 

Soup,  asparagus 


Soup.  French  itgeti 

goup.cw., 

Soup,  cUckeu 

Soup,  cabboK" 


Soup,  mock  teitapin... 


BUy  tor  gamliihlTO  . 

Blly,»i™k 

bechamel 

aochoTy 


Sauce,  cucumber... 


I.  Chill... 
^d»)e^... 


Saijcel  Sh 

Sauce,  HoOaudalse... 


Saucer  muitard 

Uuatanl,  prepared 

Haetord,  made 

aauca  mayonnalae 

imoRn  d'hoM... 


Sauce,  oyster 

Sauce,  plquaDt,., 
Sauce,  tomato — 


Forcemeat,  almond 

Forcemeat,  cheataut 

Voroemeat  balls 

Foreemeat  for  flih.  etc. . . 

Forcemeat  for  same 

Forcemeat  lor  turkey 

Forosmeat,  oyster 


zxvn,  pcBiiiTi 


To  clean  furniture. . . 


To  make  glue 

To  revive  gilt  frames — 
Magic  furniture  polish. . . 


Rata,  to  drive jMvayal 
To  deatroy  b 


How  to  |te(  rfd  of  fliea  ■ . 


606 


00NTBKT8. 


TXTT.  ToiUT.  Piaa 

GBMOlllg  glOTM 

H«ir  rooetrera 

Toilet  cuflhions 862 

ShftTtng  cttooo 808 

To  dean  hair^brushM  and  oombe 868 

To  clean  Jewelnr 868 

Cologne  water  (8) 864 

Gold  cream 864 

Lipsalve 864 

Lavender  water 864 

To  clean  gold  chains 864 

To  clean  gilt  jeweliT 865 

To  remove  a  tight  ring 865 

Grease  eraser 865 

Cure  for  chapped  hands 865 

Care  of  the  teeth 865 

bffensive  f eet 866 

For  freckles 886 

Care  of  the  nails 866 

TXT.  ElTCHBN. 

Oftreof  sUver 867 

NewketUes 887 

To  purify  water 867 

Washlngdishes 868 

Cleaning  tinware 868 

The  griddle 868 

Coal  ashes  good  to  scour  with 868 

How  to  triumph  over  absent-mindedness  868 

▲n  economical  crumb-doth 869 

Scraping  kettles 869 

How  to  keep  lamp  chimneys  dean 869 

How  to  start  a  fire 870 

To  make  fire  kindlings 870 

How  to  polish  a  stove  easily 870 

How  to  use  the  oil  stove 870 

Blacking  stoves 871 

How  to  dean  mica 871 

To  clean  knives 87!2 

To  keep  a  kitchen  table  dean 87S 

XXXT.  ThsLaundbt. 

To  clean  colored  furies 878 

Muslin  dresses 874 

Laces 876 

To  bleach  laces,  etc 876 

To  stiffen  linen 878 

To  clean  cloth 877 

To  dean  black  silk 877 

To  clean  black  merino,  etc 878 

To  renovate  cnqw 878 

Washing  clothes 878 

Washing  chints 879 

To  remove  spots  of  wax  <2) 879 

To  dean  carpets 879 

For  bleachizig  cotton  d6th 879 

To  dean  light  Idd  gloves 879 

To  dean  white  silk  lace 880 

Starch  polish 880 

Washing  fluid 880 

Oem  washing  fluid 881 

Hard  soap 881 

Soft  soap 881 

How  to  wash  flannels 881 

How  to  keep  black  gloves  from  crocking  88S 

To  remove  scorches 882 

Washing  towels 3fQ 

How  to  do  up  shirt  bosoms 388 


TTtn  BKwaa  Booh.         Faom 

Saving  thread. 884 

Window  shades 884 

Scrap  bags 884 

Sewing  on  buttons. 886 

ICarking  bandkerchiefB 885 

Table  oorers. 885 

Taking  care  of  stoddngs. 886 

Putting  away  stockings 886 

To  preserve  old  stockings 886 

Home-made  work  bsskets. 

XXXIil  DTsaro,Bra 
Bemarkik 

Silks- 
Black 

Brown— very  beantlfnl 

Crimson 

Green— veiy  handsome 

Light  blue 

Old  gold 

Orange  

Purple 

Sky  blue. 

Yellow 

Woollen  goods— 

Blue-<iuick  process 890 

Chrome  biack— best  in  use. 890 

Green. 890 

Madderred 880 

Orange. 890 

Pink 880 

Scariet— very  fine 891 

Snuff  brown— dark 891 

Snuff  brown   any  shade 801 

Winecdor. 891 

Crimson 891 

Dove  and  slate 891 

Purple 891 

Salmon 

Yellow— rich.. 

Cotton  goods— 

Green. 

Orange 

Red 898 

Sky  blue 888 

Yellow 

Cotton  carpet 

Blue 

Yellow.... 

Orange .*....  894 

Green 894 

To  remove  stains— 

Ink  stains  (8) 

Port  wine  stains. 

To  remove  mildew 

Stains  in  silk. 

Acid,  tea,  wine,  and  other  stains. 

Stains  caused  by  scorching 

How  to  restore  stained  muslin. . . 

Stains  caused  by  mildew 896 

Linen 

Stains  on  mahogany,  etc 

Silver  and  electro-plate  stains 

To  take  ink  stains  from  mahogany. 
Oil  stains 


^- '. 


•V  .  A..;^^  ■ 


CONTENTS 


607 


XXXIV.  Odds  jun>  Bhos.       Page 

How  to  protect  the  dreoB 896 

Putting  up  curtains ^ ^^ 

Window  gardens 898 

To  keep  dojs  and  s^ls  at  home 899 

Lining  stair  carpets 899 

Putting  awav  woollen  goods 899 

Pretty  and  simple  ornaments 899 

How  to  make  an  old  Japanese  umbrella 

useful .400 

To  remove  paint  and  putty  from  win- 
dow glass 400 

To  preserve  natural  flowers 400 

^:g8,  to  preserve  for  winter  use 400 

Cnarcoal  for  flowers. .\ . .  401 

To  revive  gUt  frames 401 

Floor-cloths 401 

To  pot  butter  for  vrinter  use 401 

To  prevent  rust 401 

Paste 401 

French  polish. 402 

To  preserve  steel  ornaments  from  rust.  402 

To  preserve  flowers. 402 

Incombustible  dresses 402 

Home-made  table  syrup 408 

The  chromograph 408 

Lime  water 404 

Preserving  autumn  leaves. 405 

Skeleton  leaves 405 

To  restore  frozen  plants. 406 

For  crystallizing  grass 406 

Frosting  for  windows,  f 406 

Black  tracing  paper 407 

Sympathetic  ink. 407 

Valuable  cement 407 

Diamond  cement 407 

Oement  for  rubber  or  leather 407 

Weights  and  measures 406 

XXXV.  Thb  Sick  Room. 

Remarks. 425 

Panada. 429 

Arrowroot  jelly 429 

Beef  tea  (2) 480 

Chicken  panada 480 

Eggcream 480 

Soup  for  invalids 431 

Gruel 481 

Egg  gruel 481 

Gruel  for  infants 481 

Beef  jelly  for  invalids 481 

JUULVi.  Health  Items. 

Recipe  for  cold 482 

Ck>ugh  mixture 482 

To  remove  warts 482 

To  prevent  nails  growing  into  the  toe. . .  482 

To  prevent  the  nightmare 488 

The  use  of  a  raw  egg 483 

How  to  make  a  sand  bag. ^^in 

Worm  remedy i:i4 

Sleep  as  a  medicine 4^1 

New  cure  for  wounds 43.'$ 

A  mustard  plaster 485 

A  cure  for  diphtheria. 436 

Bilious  headache 436 

A  remedy  for  cold  feet 436 

The  opium  habit 488 

Antidotes  for  poisons. 437 


Bztemal  use  of  castor  oil 488 

]^«atment  of  the  supposed  drowned....  488 

Cure  for  bums 489 

Grandmother's  salve  for  everything....  440 

Cholera  remedy 440 

Fig  paste  for  constipation. 440 

Cure  for  chilblains 440 

For  canker  sore  mouth. 441 

Cureforooms 441 

Ring-worm 441 

Cure  for.  rheumatism  and  bilious  head- 
ache  441 

For  felon  (2) 441 

Toothache 441 

Cure  for  neuralgia 442 

Tincture  of  iodine  for  coins. 442 

Small-pox  remedy 442 

For  hydrophobia 448 

Flannels  for  fomentations. 448 

For  hoarseness 444 

For  sore  throat 444 

Healing  lotion 444 

To  prevent  contagion 444 

For  toothache 444 

For  headache 444 

To  stop  bleeding 446 

To  reNore  from  strolra  of  lightning. 445 

Salve  for  chilblain& 446 

To  remove  discolorations  from,  bruises .    446 

Cure  for  wasp  stings 446 

Cure  for  summer  complaint. 446 

The  best  deodorizer 446 

XXXVn.  Cabb  AND  Culture  OF  Cbildrxm. 

Sleep 446 

Exercise 461 

Food 454 

Rice  jelly 466 

Arrowroot 467 

Milkand  bread 457 

Wheaten  grits. 457 

Hominy  and  milk 457 

Graham  hasty  pudding. 466 

Rice  flour  hasty  pudding 466 

Milkporridge .TTT 468 

Mush  and  milk 466 

Condensed  milk.' 466 

Moral  influence— obedience 466 

XXXVm.  The  Dnmfo-RooM. 

General  remarks 468 

Decoration  of  the  dinner  table 466 

Company  dinner 4f  9 

Menu  for  company  dinner. 472 

Party  dinner 472 

Menu  for  par^  dinner 474 

A  word  to  the  guest 476 

Home  dinner 477 

Coffees  and  luncheons. 480 

Luncheons. 483 

Menu  for  coini>any  dhiner  for    each 

month. 488 

Allowance  of  supplies  for  an  entertain- 
ment  466 

Cold  lunches  for  wash  days,  or  other 

days  of  extra  labor 487 

Ekx}nomical  dinners 487 


608 


CONTENTa 


Thb  A^UABim.      Paob. 

Fresh  irater  a(|iiariuin 4"8 

Marino  aquarium 400 

XL.  Cars  OF  Camarixs. 

Remarks 605 

Choosinjj^  the  birds 5(C> 

Tamiug 5  0 

Caicett sai 

Baths 600 

Food  and  water 607 

Breedlutf  Cauaries 607 

XLL  Flobicdltubx. 

Remarks 509 

Trellised  windows 610 

Arbors  and  rockeries 61 4 

Rockeries 610 

Ind(M>r  (gardens fc'O 

Ferneries 6ci9 

ZLII.  Tax  Picxic 534-^ 

XLin.  QabdctPartxbs 640-45 

XLIV.  CaxpixoOut. 546-51 

XLV.  DAcoonRS 663-53 


ZLVL  Housi  Paiktiho. 


667 


Remarks 

Mixing  paints— 

A  Deautiful  white  paint 658 

For  a  pure  white  paint '. 6(i0 

To  mix  common  white  paint 600 

Forknouing 660 

Common  tlesh  color 6(jO 

Fhie  flesh  color 660 

A  beautiful  color  for  carriages,  etc.  600, 

Cream  color 600 

Pearlgray 600 

Fawn  color *...  600 

Blue 600 

Buflf 660 

Straw 661 

Drab(2) 661 

Steel 501 

Purple 661 

•    Violet 6C1 

French  gray 661 

Silver 661 

Gold •    661 

Dark  chestnut  GCi 

Salmon 6C1 

Peach  blossom 661 

Lead 661 

Chocolate 602 

Dark  red  for  common  purposes. . , . .  662 

Orange  602 

Bright  yellow  for  floors,  etc 66t! 

Park  yellow 6(fcJ 

Ughtyellow 662 

0UTegreea(4) 662 


pAor 

Olive  jjrBen 668 

Lightgreen 663 

Grass  green 563 

Iiivisible  green  for  outside  work ....  603 

To  paint  a  bronze   66S 

A  good  imitation  of  gold 668 

Tar  paint  for  fences,  etc 668 

Paint  driers 608 

Milk  paint  for  indoor  work 664 

Lime  whitewash 564 

Italian  marble 664 

To  imitate  granite 666 

A  cheap  oak  Tamiph 665 

Common  oil  varnish 666 

Transparent  vamialifor  pictures  ...  665 
For  varnishing  on  wood,  unpainted,  666 
Waterproof  varnish  for    linen  or 

calico 606 

Instructions 666 

JCLVIL  Thb  Care  or  ths  Hair 667-70 

XLVIU.  HOORBHOU)  AMUSBICXim. 

Remarks. 571 

The  baU  of  wool 671 

Shadows 578 

The  messenger SJ% 

Magic  music 573 

The  courtiers 674 

The  dumb  orator 674 

Speaking  buff 575 

The  shopkeepers 675 

Twirling  the  trencher 676 

Proverbs 576 

The  newspaper 677 

Comi(»l  combinations 078 

Bus 579 

The  knight  of  the  whistle 680 

Catch  the  ring 580 

Scandal 681 

The  wild  beast  show 681 

The  genteel  lady  always  genteel 661 

Dumb  crambo 683 

The  giantess 688 

A  blind  Judgment 684 

XTiTX.  FoLDOio  Napkikr. 

Remarks. 

Tlie  pocket 

Crown  pattern 687 

The  flower 687 

Tl:e  cornucopia 687 

Thecocked  hat 688 

Tiie  basket 689 

Tlie  mitre 690 

ThesheU 691 

The  Victoria  regia 591 

Tofoldflg.68 ,      ~ 

The  tiara 

Glosbabt 


i 


\ 

f 
i 


: 


CoLibri 


