THOUSAND  WAYS 

IU  Jr  Ju  .  o  A.O  Jlj 
A.  JM.UoJi5i_\JA!lJ 


LOUISE  BENNETT  WEAVER 
HELEN  COWLES  LECRON 

1917 


,■/;■•■'".''.  ■  '>•..«  i»  '.■ '  ■■!■ <■' 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2011 


http://www.archive.org/details/thousandwaystopOOOweav 


A  THOUSAND  WAYS  TO 
PLEASE  A  HUSBAND 


6      ^ 


A 

THOUSAND  WAYS 

TO  PLEASE  A  HUSBAND 

WITH 
BETTINA'S  BEST  RECIPES 

-BY- 
LOUISE  BENNETT  WEAVER 

AND 

HELEN  COWLES  LeCRON 


The  Romance  of  Cookery 
AND  HOUSEKEEPING 

Decorations  by 
ELIZABETH  COLBOURNE 


A.  L.  Burt  Company 
Publishers  New  York 


Copyright.  1917 

by 

Britton  Publishing  Company,  Ine. 


All  Rights  Reserved 


Made  in  U.S.  A. 


A    DEDICATION 

To  every  other  little  bride 
Who  has  a  "Bob"  to  please, 

And  says  she's  tried  and  tried  and  tried 
To  cook  with  skill  and  ease, 

And  cant! — we  offer  here  as  guide 
Bettinas  Recipes! 

To  her  whose  "Bob"  is  prone  to  wear 

JL  sad  ana  Jiungry  toon, 
Because  the  maid  he  thought  so  fair 

Is — well — she  just  cant  cook! 
To  her  we  say :  do  not  despair; 

Just  try  Bettinds  Book! 


JUNE. 

No,  you  cannot  live  on  kisses, 
Though  the  honeymoon  is  sweet, 

Harken,  brides,  a  true  word  this  is,- 
Even  lovers  have  to  eat. 


CHAPTER    I 


HOME  AT  LAST 


**TJOME    at    last!"    sighed 
Al    Bettina  happily   as   the 
hot  and  dusty  travelers  left  the 
train. 

"Why  that  contented  sigh?" 
asked  Bob.  "Because  our  wed- 
ding trip  is  over?  Well,  any- 
how, Bettina,  it's  after  five. 
Shall  we  have  dinner  at  the 
hotel?" 

"Hotel?  Why,  Bob !  with  our 
house  and  our  dishes  and  our  silver  just  waiting  for  us?  I'm 
ashamed  of  you !  We'll  take  the  first  car  for  home — a  street- 
car, not  a  taxi !  Our  extravagant  days  are  over,  and  the  time 
has  come  to  show  you  that  Bettina  knows  how  to  keep  house. 
You  think  that  you  love  me  now,  Bobby,  but  just  wait  till  you 
sit  down  to  a  real  strawberry  shortcake  made  by  a  real  cook 
in  a  real  home !" 

Half  an  hour  later  Bob  was  unlocking  the  door  of  the  new 
brown  bungalow.  "Isn't  it  a  dear?"  cried  Bettina  proudly. 
"When  we've  had  time  to  give  it  grass  and  shrubs  and  flowers 
and  a  vegetable  garden,  no  place  in  town  will  equal  it!  And 
as  for  porch  furniture,  how  I'd  like  to  get  at  Mother's  attic  and 
transform  some  of  her  discarded  things!" 

"Just  now  I'd  rather  get  at  some  of  Mother's  cooking!" 
grinned  Bob. 


8      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Oh,  dear,  I  forgot !  I'll  have  supper  ready  in  ten  minutes. 
Do  you  remember  my  emergency  shelf?  Why,  Bob — Bob, 
they  must  have  known  we  were  coming!  Here's  ice — and 
milk — and  cream — and  butter — and  bread — and  rolls,  and  even 
a  grape  fruit !  They  knew,  and  didn't  meet  the  train  because 
they  thought  we  would  prefer  to  have  our  first  meal  alone! 
Wasn't  that  dear  of  them?  And  this  will  save  you  a  trip  to 
the  corner  grocery !" 

Bettina  fastened  a  trim  percale  bungalow  apron  over  her 
traveling  suit,  and  swiftly  and  surely  assembled  the  little  meal. 

"I  like  that  apron,"  said  Bob.  "It  reminds  me  of  the  rainy 
day  when  we  fixed  the  emergency  shelf.    That  was  fun." 

"Yes,  and  work  too,"  said  Bettina,  "but  I'm  glad  we  did  it. 
Do  you  remember  how  much  I  saved  by  getting  things  in  dozen 
and  half  dozen  lots?  And  Mother  showed  me  how  much 
better  it  was  to  buy  the  larger  sizes  in  bottled  things,  because 
in  buying  the  smaller  bottles  you  spend  most  of  your  money 
for  the  glass.  Now  that  you  have  to  pay  my  bills,  Bob,  you'll 
be  glad  that  I  know  those  things  !" 

"I  think  you  know  a  great  deal,"  said  Bob  admiringly.  "Lots 
of  girls  can  cook,  but  mighty  few  know  how  to  be  economical 
at  the  same  time !     It's  great  to  be  your " 

"Dinner  is  served,"  Bettina  interrupted.  "It's  a  'pick-up 
meal,'  but  I'm  hungry,  aren't  you?  And  after  this,  sir,  no 
more  canned  things !" 

And  Bob  sat  down  to: 

Creamed  Tnna  on  Toast  Strips 

Canned   Peas   with    Butter   Sauce 

Rolls  Butter 

Strawberry    Preserves 

Hot  Chocolate  with  Marshmallows 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Tuna  on  Toast  Strips  (Two  portions) 

i  T-butter  }/2  slice  pimento 

i  T-flour  I   C-milk 

%  t-salt  3  slices  of  bread 

J/2  C-tuna 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  9 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pimento.  Mix  well. 
Gradually  pour  in  the  milk.  Allow  the  mixture  to  boil  one 
minute.  Stir  constantly.  Add  the  fish,  cook  one  minute  and 
pour  over  toasted  strips  of  bread. 

Hot  Chocolate  (Three  cups) 

I  square  of  chocolate       2  C-milk 
3  T-sugar  %  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-water  3  marshmallows 

Cook  chocolate,  sugar  and  water  until  a  thin  custard  is 
formed.  Add  milk  gradually  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Whip  with 
an  Qgg  beater,  as  this  breaks  up  the  albumin  found  in  choco- 
late, and  prevents  the  coating  from  forming  over  the  top.  Add 
vanilla  and  marshmallows.  Allow  to  stand  a  moment  and  pour 
into  the  cups. 

Strawberry  Preserves   (Six  one-half  pt.   glasses) 

4  lbs.  berries  3lbs.  sugar 

3  C-water 

Pick  over,  wash  and  hull  the  berries.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  the  sugar  and  water  fifteen  minutes.  Fill  sterilized  jars 
with  the  berries.  Cover  with  syrup  and  let  stand  fifteen 
minutes  to  settle.  Add  more  berries.  Adjust  rubbers  and 
covers.  Place  on  a  folded  cloth  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Heat 
water  to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Screw  on 
covers  securely. 

On  Bettina's  Emergency  Shelf 

6  cans  pimentos  (small  size)  6  cans  tomatoes 

6  cans  tuna  (small  size)  6  pt.  jars  pickles 

6  cans  salmon  (small  size)  6  pt.  jars  olives 

6  jars  dried  beef  6  small  cans  condensed  mite 

12  cans  corn  6  boxes  sweet  wafers 

12  cans  peas  1  pound  box  salted  codfish 

6  cans  string  beans  3  pkg.  marshmallows 

6  cans  lima  beans  3  cans  mushrooms 

6  cans  devilled  ham  (small  size)  2  pkg.  macaroni 


CHAPTER   II 
BETTINA'S   FIRST   REAL  DINNER 

*f  QAY,  isn't  it  great  to  be  alive.!"  exclaimed  Bob,  as  he 

**-*  looked  across  the  rose-decked  table  at  the  flushed  but 
happy  Bettina.     "And  a  beefsteak  dinner,  too !" 

"Steak  is  expensive,  dear,  and  you'll  not  get  it  often,  but  as 
this  is  our  first  real  dinner  in  our  own  home,  I  had  to  cele- 
brate. I  bought  enough  for  two  meals,  because  buying  steak 
for  one  meal  for  two  people  is  beyond  any  modest  purse !  So 
you'll  meet  that  steak  again  tomorrow,  but  I  don't  believe  that 
you'll  bow  in  recognition  !" 

"So  you  marketed  today,  did  you?" 

"Indeed  I  did !  I  bought  a  big  basket,  and  went  at  it  like 
a  seasoned  housekeeper.  I  had  all  the  staples  to  get,  you 
know,  and  lots  of  other  things.  After  dinner  I'll  show  you 
the  labelled  glass  jars  on  my  shelves ;  it  was  such  fun  putting 
things  away !  June  is  a  wonderful  month  for  housekeepers. 
I've  planned  the  meals  for  days  ahead,  because  I  know  that's 
best.  Then  I'll  go  to  the  market  several  times  a  week,  and 
if  I  plan  properly  I  won't  have  to  order  by  telephone.  It 
seems  so  extravagant  to  buy  in  that  way  unless  you  know 
exactly  what  you  are  getting.  I  like  to  plan  for  left-overs, 
too.  For  instance,  the  peas  in  this  salad  were  left  from 
yesterday's  dinner,  and  the  pimento  is  from  that  can  I  opened. 
Then,  too,  I  cooked  tomorrow's  potatoes  with  these  to  save 
gas  and  bother.     You'll  have  them  served  in  a  different  way, 

of  course.     And Oh,  yes,  Bob,"  Bettina  chattered  on,  "I 

saw  Ruth  down  town,  and  have  asked  all  five  of  my  brides- 


10 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  H 

maids  to  luncheon  day  after  tomorrow.  Won't  that  be  fun? 
But  I  promise  you  that  the  neglected  groom  shall  have  every 
one  of  the  good  things  when  he  comes  home  at  night  I" 

"It  makes  me  feel  happy,  I  can  tell  you,  to  have  a  home  like 
this.  It's  pleasant  to  be  by  ourselves,  but  at  the  same  time 
I  can't  help  wishing  that  some  of  the  bachelors  I  know  could 
sec  iv  all  and  taste  your  cooking  r- 

"Well,  Bob,  I  want  you  to  feel  free  to  have  a  guest  at  any 
time.  If  my  dinners  are  good  enough  for  you,  I'm  sure  they're 
good  enough  for  any  guest  whom  you  may  bring.  And  it 
isn't  very  hard  to  make  a  meal  for  three  out  of  a  meal  for  two. 
Now,  Bobby,  if  you're  ready,  will  you  please  get  the  dessert?" 

"What  ?  Strawberry  shortcake  ?  Well,  this  is  living !  I  tell 
you  what,  Bettina,  I  call  this  a  regular  man-size  meal !" 

It  consisted  of : 

Pan-Broiled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits  Gutter 

.Khubarb  Sauce  Pea  and  Celery  Salad 

Strawberry  Short-cake  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements   are  level) 

Pan-Broiled  Steak  (Two  portions) 

I  lb.  steak  %  t-pepper 

i  T-butter  2  T-hot  water 

1  t-salt  1  t-parsley  chopped 

Wipe  the  meat  carefully  with  a  wet  cloth.  Remove  super- 
fluous fat  and  any  gristle.  Cut  the  edges  to  prevent  them 
from  curling  up.  When  the  broiling  oven  is  very  hot,  place 
the  meat,  without  any  fat,  upon  a  hot  flat  pan,  directly  under 
the  blaze.  Brown  both  sides  very  quickly.  Turn  often.  Re- 
duce heat  and  continue  cooking  about  seven  minutes,  or  longer 
if  desired.  Place  on  a  warm  platter;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  bits  of  butter.  Set  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  melt  the 
butter.  If  salt  is  added  while  cooking,  the  juices  will  be  drawn 
out.  A  gravy  may  be  made  by  adding  hot  water,  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  parsley  to  the  pan.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the 
steak. 


12     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

New  Potatoes  in  Cream  (Two  portions) 

4  new  potatoes   i  qt.  water 
i  t-salt 

Scrape  four  medium  sized  new  potatoes.  Cook  in  boiling 
water  (salted)  until  tender  when  pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain 
off  the  water,  and  shake  the  kettle  over  the  fire  gently,  to  allow 
the  steam  to  escape  and  make  the  potatoes  mealy.  Make  the 
following  white  sauce  and  pour  over  the  potatoes. 

White   Sauce  for   New   Potatoes    (Two   portions) 

2  T-butter     i  c-milk 

2  T-flour      Y?  t-salt 

%  t-paprika 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Thoroughly 
mix,  slowly  add  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Allow  sauce  to 
cook  two  minutes. 

Strawberry   Shortcake  (Two  portions) 

2  T-lard  1/3  t-salt 

1  T-butter  4  t-baking  powder 

2  c-sifted  flour  1  qt.  strawberries 
%   C-milk  2/3  C-sugar 

Cut  the  fat  into  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  until  the 
consistency  of  cornmeal.  Gradually  add  the  milk,  using  a 
knife  to  mix.  Do  not  handle  any  more  than  absolutely  neces- 
sary. Toss  the  dough  upon  a  floured  board  or  a  piece  of  clean 
brown  paper.  Pat  into  the  desired  shape,  and  place  in  a  pan. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Split,  spread  with 
tmtter,  and  place  strawberries,  crushed  and  sweetened,  between 
and  on  top.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   III 

BETTINA'S  FIRST  GUEST 

*<T  TELLO!  Yes,  this  is  Bettina!  Why,  Bob,  of  course! 
A  A  Is  he  a  real  woman-hater?  No,  I've  never  met  any, 
but  I'll  just  invite  Alice,  too,  and  tomorrow  you  won't  be 
calling  him  that.  Six-thirty  ?  Yes,  I'll  be  ready  for  you  both ; 
I'm  so  glad  you  asked  him.  He'll  be  our  first  guest !  Good- 
bye !" 

Bettina  left  the  telephone  with  more  misgivings  than  her 
tone  had  indicated.  She  couldn't  disappoint  Bob,  and  she 
liked  unexpected  company,  but  the  dinner  which  she  had 
planned  was  prepared  largely  from  the  recipes  filed  as  "left- 
overs" in  her  box  of  indexed  cards. 

"Well,  Bob  will  like  it,  anyhow,"  she  declared  confidently, 
"and  if  Alice  can  come,  we'll  have  enough  scintillating  table- 
talk  to  make  up  for  disappointments." 

Alice  accepted  with  delight,  promising  to  wear  "a  dream  of 
a  gown  that  just  came  home,"  and  confessing  to  a  sentimental 
feeling  at  the  thought  of  dining  with  such  a  new  bride  and 
groom. 

"Let's  see,"  said  Bettina  in  her  spick  and  span  little  kitchen, 
"there  is  meat  enough,  but  I  must  hard-boil  some  eggs  to  help 
out  these  potatoes.  'Potatoes  Anna'  will  be  delicious.  Good- 
ness, what  would  my  home  economics  teacher  have  said  if  she 
had  heard  me  say  'hard-boil'?  They  mustn't  really  be  boiled 
at  all,  just  'hard-cooked'  in  water  kept  at  the  boiling  point. 
There  will  be  enough  baked  green  peppers  for  four,  and 
enough  of  the  pudding,  and  if  I  add  some  very  good  coffee., 


14     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

I  don't  believe  that  Bob's  Mr.  Harrison  will  feel  that  women 
are  such  nuisances  after  all!  It  isn't  an  elaborate  meal,  but 
it's  wholesome,  and  at  any  rate,  our  gas  bill  will  be  a  little 
smaller  because  everything  goes  into  the  oven." 

When  Alice  arrived,  Bettina  was  putting  the  finishing 
touches  on  her  table.     "Alice,  you  look  stunning!" 

"And  you  look  lovely,  which  is  better!  And  the  table  is 
charming!  Those  red  clover  blossoms  in  that  brown  basket 
make  a  perfect  center-piece  !     How  did  you  think  of  it  ?" 

"Mother  Necessity  reminded  me,  my  dear!  My  next  door 
neighbor  has  roses,  but  I  covet  some  for  my  luncheon  tomor- 
row, and  did  not  like  to  ask  for  any  today.  So  I  had  to  use 
these  red  clover  blooms  from  our  own  back  yard.  They  are 
simple,  like  the  dinner." 

"Don't  you  envy  me,  Harrison?"  asked  Bob  at  the  table. 
"This  is  my  third  day  of  real  home  cooking!  You  were  unex- 
pected company,  too !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Boubons  with  Tomato  Sauce 
Potatoes  Anna  Baked  Green  Peppers  Stuffed 

Bread  Butter 

Cottage   Pudding  Lemon   Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Boubons  (Four  portions) 

1  C-cooked  meat  ground  fine  (one  or  more 
kinds  may  be  used) 

2  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 
%  t-pepper 

y2  C-milk 

I  T-green  pepper  or  pimento  chopped  fine 
%  t-celery    salt 

I  egg 
y2  t-salt 

i  t-butter  (melted) 

Beat  the  egg,  add  milk,  seasonings,  melted  butter,  bread- 
crumbs and  meat.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fill  buttered  cups  three- 
fourths  full  of  mixture.     Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  15 

bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes.  The  mixture  is  done 
as  soon  as  it  resists  pressure  in  the  center.  Allow  them  to 
remain  in  the  pans  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  carefully  upon 
a  serving  plate.  They  may  be  made  in  a  large  mould  or  indi- 
vidual ones.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

i  C-tomatoes  l/2  t-sugar 

i  slice  onion  Y2   C-water 

4  bay  leaves  2  T-butter 

4  cloves  2  T-flour 
Y*  t-salt 

Simmer  the  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaves,  cloves,  sugar  and 
water  for  fifteen  minutes,  rub  through  the  strainer.  Melt  but- 
ter, add  flour  and  salt,  add  strained  tomato  juice  and  pulp. 
Cook  until  the  desired  consistency. 

Potatoes  Anna  (Four  portions) 

ll/2  C-cooked   diced  potatoes  y2  t-celery   salt 

2  hard-cooked  eggs  Ya  t-onion  salt 

1  C-thin  white  sauce 

Place  alternate  layers  of  diced  cooked  potatoes  and  sliced 
hard-cooked  eggs  in  a  baking  dish.  Season.  Pour  a  thin  white 
sauce  over  all  of  this.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (Four  portions) 
4  green  peppers      4  C-boiling  water 

Remove  the  stems  of  the  peppers  and  take  out  all  the  con- 
tents. Remove  small  slices  from  the  blossom  end  so  they  will 
stand.  Cover  peppers  with  boiling  water,  allow  to  stand  five 
minutes  and  drain.  Fill  with  any  desired  mixture.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  frequently  with 
hot  water. 

Filling  for  Peppers  (Four  portions) 

1  C-fresh  bread  crumbs  Y2  t-salt 

1  t-chopped  onion  or  Ya  T-onion  salt  1  T-melted  butter 

1/3  C-chopped  ham,  or  1  T-salt  pork  %  t-paprika 

2  T-water 


16     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  thoroughly  and  fill  the  pepper  cases. 

Baked  Cottage  Pudding   (Four  portions) 

i  C-flour  1/3  C-sugar 
1  2/3  t-baking  powder  2  T-melted  butter 

%  t-salt  y2   C-milk 

1  well-beaten  egg  %  t-vanilla  or  lemon  extract 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk.  Beat  well  and  add 
melted  butter  and  extract.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  well 
buttered  mould.    Serve  hot  with  the  following  sauce : 

Lemon  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

y2  C-sugar  1  t-butter 

lYz  1  -flour  1  t-lemon  extract  or  y2  t-lemon  juice 

1  C-hot  water     y2  t-salt 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Slowly  add  the  hot  water.  Cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.    Add  flavoring  and  butter. 


CHAPTER   IV 

BETTINA  GIVES  A  LUNCHEON 

**r\  YOU  darling  Bcttina!     Did  you  do  it  all  yourself?" 
^-^     Mary  exclaimed  impulsively,  as  the  girls  admired  the 
dainty    first    course    which    their    hostess    set    before    them. 
"Everything  is  pink  and  white,  like  the  wedding !" 

"Yes,"  said  Bettina,  "and  those  maline  bows  on  the  basket 
of  roses  actually  attended  my  wedding.  And  after  this  is  over, 
you  may  see  that  maline  again.  I  expect  to  press  it  out  and 
put  it  away  for  other  pink  luncheons  in  other  Junes !  Today, 
since  my  guests  were  to  be  just  my  bridesmaids,  I  thought  that 
a  pink  luncheon  would  be  the  most  appropriate  kind." 

"Isn't  it  fine  to  be  in  Bettina's  own  house?  I  can't  realize 
it!"  said  Ellen.  "And  the  idea  of  daring  to  cook  ft  whole 
luncheon  and  serve  it  in  courses  all  by  herself !  Why,  Bettina, 
how  did  you  know  what  to  have  ?" 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "I  went  to  the  market  and  saw  all  the 
inexpensive  things  that  one  can  buy  in  June!  (They  had  to 
be  inexpensive !  Why,  if  I  were  to  tell  you  just  what  this 
luncheon  cost,  you'd  laugh.  But  I  want  you  to  like  it  all  before 
I  give  that  secret  away.)  And  then  in  planning  my  menu,  I 
thought  of  pinky  things  that  went  together.  That  was  all,  you 
see. 

"But  didn't  it  take  hours  and  hours  to  prepare  everything  ?" 
"Why,  no.  I  thought  it  all  out  first,  and  wrote  it  down,  and 
did  most  of  it  yesterday.  I've  found  that  five  minutes  of 
planning  is  worth  five  hours  of  unplanned  work.  I  haven't 
hurried,  and  as  Bob  will  have  this  same  meal  as  his  dinner 
tonight,  I  didn't  have  to  think  of  him  except  to  plan  for  more. 

17 


18     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

You  see,  I  estimated  each  portion  as  carefully  as  I  could,  for  it 
isn't  necessary  to  have  a  lot  of  left-over  things.  Tonight  I'll 
wear  this  same  pink  gown  at  dinner  so  that  Bob  will  get  every 
bit  that  he  can  of  my  first  luncheon  except  the  silly  girls  who 
flattered  the  cook." 

"Bettina,  there  are  so  many  things  I'd  like  to  ask  you !"  said 
Ruth,  who  was  a  little  conscious  of  the  shining  ring  on  her  left 
hand.  "Tell  me,  for  instance,  how  you  shaped  these  cunning 
timbales.     With  your  hands  ?" 

"With  a  conical  ice-cream  mould.     It  is  so  easy  that  way." 

"And  this  salad !  Fred  is  so  fond  of  salad,  but  I  don't  know 
a  thing  about  making  it." 

"Well,  I  washed  the  lettuce  thoroughly,  and  when  it  was 
very  wet  I  put  it  on  the  ice  in  a  cloth.  I  poured  boiling  water 
over  these  tomatoes  to  make  the  skins  peel  off  easily.  And, 
oh,  yes,  these  cucumbers  are  crisp  because  I  kept  the  slices  in 
ice  water  for  awhile  before  I  served  them.  Good  salad  is 
always  very  cold ;  the  ingredients  ought  to  be  chilled  before 
they  are  mixed." 

"These  dear  little  cakes,  Bettina!  How  could  you  make 
them  in  such  cunning  shapes  ?" 

"With  a  fancy  cutter.  And  I  dipped  it  in  warm  water  each 
time  before  I  used  it,  so  that  it  would  cut  evenly.  I'd  love  to 
show  you  girls  all  that  I  know  about  cooking.  Do  learn  it  now 
while  you're  at  home ;  it  will  save  much  labor  and  even  tears ! 
Why,  Bob  said " 

"I  knew  that  was  coming!"  laughed  Alice.  "Girls,  in  self- 
defense,  let's  keep  the  conversation  strictly  on  Betty's  menu, 
and  away  from  Betty's  husband !" 

And  so  they  discussed : 


Strawberries  au  Naturel 

Kornlet  Soup  Whipped  Cream 

Croutons 

Salmon  Timbales  with  Egg  Sauce 

Buttered  Beets  Potato  Croquettes 

Pinwheel   Biscuit  Butter   Balls 

Vegetable  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Wafers 

Fancy  Cakes  Coffee 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  19 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Strawberries  au  Naturel   (Ten  portions) 

2  quarts  strawberries     I  C-powdered  sugar 

Pick  over  selected  berries,  place  in  a  colander  and  wash, 
draining  carefully.  Press  powdered  sugar  into  cordial  glasses 
to  shape  into  a  small  mould.  Remove  from  glasses  onto  cen- 
ters of  paper  doilies  placed  on  fruit  plates.  Attractively 
arrange  ten  berries  around  each  mound.  Berries  should  be 
kept  cool  and  not  hulled.  Natural  leaves  may  be  used  very 
effectively  on  the  doily. 

Croutons  for  the  Soup   (Ten  portions) 

4  slices  bread      2  T-butter  (melted) 
y2  t-salt 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  cubes.  Brown  in  the  oven. 
Add  melted  butter  and  salt.     Mix  and  reheat  the  croutons. 

Salmon  Timbales  (Eight  portions) 

1  C-salmon  flaked  2/3  C-milk 

J4  C-bread  crumbs  1  T-lemon  juice 

1  slightly  beaten  egg  %  t-paprika 

yi  t-salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  named.     Fill  small  buttered  moulds 

or  cups  one-half  full.     Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake 

twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  following 

sauce : 

Egg  Sauce  (Eight  portions) 

3  T-butter     l/2  t-salt 
3  T-flour        J4  t-pepper 
iH  C-milk  1  egg  yolk 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  flour  in  well,  and  slowly  add  the  milk. 

Let  it  boil  about  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly.     Season,  add 

yolk  of  egg,  and  mix  well.     (The  oil  from  the  salmon  may  be 

substituted  for  melted  butter  as  far  as  it  will  go.) 

White   Cakes    (Sixteen   cakes) 

1/3  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

1  C-sugar  Yi  t-lemon  extract 
2/3  C-milk  y2  t-vanilla 

2  C-sifted  flour  3  egg  whites 


20     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  and  continue  creaming.  Alter- 
nately add  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Add  the 
milk.  Beat  well,  add  flavoring.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Spread  evenly,  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  on  waxed 
paper,  placed  in  a  pan.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.  Remove  from  oven,  allow  cake  to  remain  in  pan  five 
minutes.    Carefully  remove  and  cool.     Cut  with  fancy  cutters. 

White  Mountain  Cream  Icing  for  Cakes 

I  C-granulated    sugar    %  C-water 

%  t-cream  tartar  I  egg  white 

x/2  t-vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  together  without 
stirring.  Remove  from  fire  as  soon  as  the  syrup  hairs  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon.  Pour  very  slowly  onto  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  white.  Beat  vigorously  with  sweeping  strokes  until  cool. 
If  icing  gets  too  hard  to  spread,  add  a  little  warm  water  and 
keep  beating.  Add  extract  and  spread  on  cakes.  Decorate 
with  tiny  pink  candies. 


CHAPTER   V 
BOB   HELPS  TO   GET   DINNER 

f  f  Z^1  UESS  who!"  said  a  voice  behind  Bettina,  as  two  hands 

^-*    blinded  her  eyes. 

"Why,  Bob,  dear !  Good  for  you !  How  did  you  get  home 
so  early?" 

"I  caught  a  ride  with  Dixon  in  his  new  car.  And  I  thought 
you  might  need  me  to  help  get  dinner ;  it's  nice  to  be  needed ! 
But  here  I've  been  picturing  you  toiling  over  a  hot  stove,  and, 
instead,  I  nna  you  on  tne  porch  with  a  magazine,  as  cool  as  a 
cucumber !" 

"The  day  of  toiling  over  a  hot  stove  in  summer  is  over.  At 
least  for  anyone  with  sense !  But  I'm  glad  you  did  come  home 
early,  and  you  can  help  with  dinner.  Will  you  make  the 
French  dressing  for  the  salad?  See,  I'll  measure  it  out,  and 
you  can  stir  it  this  way  with  a  fork  until  it's  well  mixed  and  a 
little  thick." 

"I  know  a  much  better  way  than  that.  Just  watch  your 
Uncle  Bob;  see?  I'll  put  it  in  this  little  Mason  jar  and  shake 
it.  It's  a  lot  easier  and — there  you  are!  We'll  use  what  we 
need  tonight,  put  the  jar  away  in  the  ice-box,  and  the  next 
time  we  can  give  it  another  good  shaking  before  we  use  it." 

"Why,  Bob,  what  an  ingenious  boy  you  are !  I  never  would 
have  thought  of  that !" 

"You  married  a  man  with  brains,  Betty  dear!  What  is 
there  besides  the  salad  ?" 

"Halibut  steak.  It's  Friday,  you  know,  and  there  is  such 
good  inexpensive  fish  on  the  market.     A  pound  is  plenty  for 

21 


22     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

us.  The  potatoes  are  ready  for  the  white  sauce,  the  beans 
are  in  the  fireless  cooker,  and  for  dessert  there  is  fresh  pine- 
apple sliced.  The  pineapple  is  all  ready.  Will  you  get  it, 
dear?     In  the  ice-box  in  a  covered  jar." 

"Why  didn't  you  slice  it  into  the  serving  dish?" 

"Because  it  had  to  be  covered  tight.  Pineapple  has  a  pene- 
trating odor,  and  milk  and  butter  absorb  it  in  no  time." 

"What  else  shall  I  do,  Madam  Bettina  ?" 

"Well,  you  may  fix  the  lemon  for  the  fish.  No,  not  sliced; 
a  slice  is  too  hard  to  handle.  Just  cut  it  in  halves  and  then 
once  the  other  way,  in  quarters ;  see  ?  You  may  also  cut  up 
a  little  of  that  parsley  for  the  creamed  new  potatoes.  That 
reminds  me  that  I  am  going  to  have  parsley  growing  in  a 
kitchen  window  box  some  day.  Now  you  can  take  the  beans 
out  of  the  cooker,  and  I'll  put  butter  sauce  on  them.  No,  it 
isn't  really  a  sauce, — just  melted  butter  with  salt  and  pepper. 
There,  Bobby  dear !  Dinner  is  served,  and  you  helped !  How 
do  you  like  the  coreopsis  on  the  table  ?" 

"You  always  manage  to  have  flowers  of  some  kind,  don't 
you,  Betty  ?  I'm  growing  so  accustomed  to  that  little  habit  of 
yours  that  I  suppose  I  wouldn't  have  any  appetite  if  I  had  to 
eat  on  an  ordinary  undecorated  table !" 

"Don't  you  make  fun  of  me,  old  fellow!  You'd  have  an 
appetite  no  matter  when,  how  or  what  you  had  to  eat!  But 
things  are  good  tonight,  aren't  they?" 

Bob  had  helped  to  prepare: 

Halibut  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

String   Beans  Butter   Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Tomato,  Cucumber  and  Pimento  Salad  French  Dressing 

Sliced  Fresh  Pineapple 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All   measurements   are   level) 

Halibut    Steak  (Two  portions) 

2/3  lb.   Halibut  Steak   */2  t-salt 
3  T-flour  %  t-paprika 

Wash  one  pound  of  Halibut  steak  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  in 
two  pieces.    Roll  in  flour,  and  cook  ten  minutes  in  a  frying  pan 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  23 

in  hot  fat.    Brown  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other.    Season 
with  salt  and  paprika.     Serve  very  hot. 

String  Beans  with  Butter  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

ij4  C-string   beans     i  T-butter 

2  C-water  I  t-salt 

J4  t-paprika 

Remove  ends  and  strings  from  green  beans.  Add  water  and 
cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water,  add  butter,  salt  and  paprika.     Reheat  and  serve. 

Tomato,  Cucumber  and  Pimento  Salad  (Two  portions) 

i  tomato  sliced  I  t-salt 

%  C-sliced   cucumbers        %  t-paprika 
I  T-pimento  cut  fine         2  pieces  lettuce 

Arrange  lettuce  on  serving  dishes.  Place  portions  of  tomato, 
cucumber  and  pimento  on  the  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
paprika.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

French  Dressing  (Two  portions) 

4  T-olive  oil     l/2  t-salt 
2  T-vinegar      %  t-paprika 

Mix  ingredients,  which  have  been  thoroughly  chilled,  and 
beat  until  the  mixture  thickens.     Pour  over  the  vegetables. 

Pineapple    Sliced   (Two  portions) 

i  pineapple  Yz  C-sugar 

Remove  the  skin  and  eyes  from  the  pineapple.  Cut  cross- 
wise in  half-inch  slices,  and  the  slices  in  cubes,  at  the  same  time 
discarding  the  core.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  stand  in  a  cold 
place  for  an  hour  before  serving. 


CHAPTER   VI 

COUSIN    MATILDA    CALLS 

t*TTELLO,  is  this  you,  Bettina?  This  is  Mother!  I'll 
■*■  ■*■  have  to  speak  in  a  low  voice.  Who  do  you  think  is 
here  ?  No, — Cousin  Matilda !  Just  between  trains,  but  she 
says  she  must  see  how  you  are  'situated' !  Clementine  has 
such  a  wonderful  establishment  now,  you  know!  No,  of 
course  not,  but  I  want  her  to  see  how  happy  you  are.  She 
seems  to  have  the  idea  that  an  'establishment'  is  necessary! 
Just  to  see  the  house,  you  know !  I  know  the  porch  isn't 
ready,  but  don't  worry  !     About  three,  then.     Good-by  !" 

That  afternoon  Bettina  looked  anxiously  through  the  living 
room  window  across  the  bare  little  front  yard.  If  only  critical 
Cousin  Matilda  had  waited  a  few  months  before  coming!  But 
then,  the  only  thing  to  do  was  to  be  as  cheerful  about  it  as 
possible 

"So  this  is  little  Bettina!"  said  a  majestic  voice  at  the  door. 
"And  how  is  love  in  a  cottage?  How  charmingly  simple 
everything  is !" 

"They  planned  it  all  just  as  they  wanted  it,"  explained 
Bettina's  mother  proudly.  "On  a  small  scale,  of  course,  but 
perhaps  some  day " 

"But  I  couldn't  ever  be  happier  than  I  am  right  now,  Cousin 
Matilda.  What  do  you  think  of  our  big  living  room  ?  Browns 
and  tans  seemed  best  and  safest  in  a  little  house  like  this,  and 
I  knew  I  shouldn't  tire  of  them  as  of  any  other  color !  I  do 
so  dislike  going  into  a  bungalow  with  one  little  room  in  blue, 
another  in  pink,  and  so  on.     The  walls  are  all  alike,  even  in 


24 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  25 

the  bedrooms.  And  the  curtains  are  just  simple  cotton  voiles, 
ecru  in  the  living  and  dining  rooms,  and  white  in  the  bed- 
rooms. No  side  curtains  to  catch  the  dust  and  keep  out  the 
air.  But  I  beg  your  pardon  for  seeming  too  complacent;  I 
love  it  all  so  that  I  just  can't  help  boasting." 

"What  is  this,  my  dear?    A  wedding  gift?" 

"Yes,  isn't  it  lovely?  It  is  a  sampler  in  cross-stitch  that 
Bob's  great-great-grandmother  made  !  His  Aunt  Margaret  had 
it  put  under  the  glass  cover  of  this  tea  cart,  and  gave  it  to  us 
for  a  wedding  present.  See,  the  cart  is  brown  willow,  and  I 
think  it  looks  well  with  our  furniture,  don't  you?  This  is  to 
be  a  living  porch,  but  we  haven't  furnished  it  yet  except  for 
this  green  matting  rug.  And  Bob  brought  that  hanging  basket 
home  from  the  florist's  the  other  day.  .  .  .  Oh,  yes,  this  is  my 
Japanese  garden !  Bob  laughs  at  me,  I  have  so  much  fun 
watching  it." 

"What  a  lovely  table  decoration  those  red  cherries  make  in 
your  dining  room,  my  dear!  Like  a  picture,  in  that  piece  of 
dull  green  pottery !" 

"Yes,  Bob  says  I  decorate  the  table  differently  for  every 
meal !  We  use  this  breakfast  alcove  for  breakfast,  Sunday 
evening  tea,  or  any  informal  meal  when  we  are  alone.  You 
see  how  convenient  it  is !  I  do  want  to  put  a  round  serving 
table  with  leaves  on  our  living  porch.  Then  we  can  eat  there 
on  warm  evenings  in  summer." 

"Bettina  is  very  accomplished  in  economy,"  said  her  mother. 
"You  must  let  her  tell  you  some  of  her  methods." 

"Clementine  would  be  interested,  I'm  sure,"  said  Cousin 
Matilda  in  her  languid  way.     "Is  this  your  guest  room?" 

"Yes,  and  Bob  and  I  are  proud  of  that.  We  white  enameled 
the  furniture  ourselves  !  It  is  some  that  we  found  in  a  second- 
hand store,  and  it  was  certainly  a  bargain,  though  it  didri\ 
look  it  at  the  time.  I  sewed  the  rags  together  for  these  blue 
and  white  rugs.  Bob  made  that  little  open  desk  out  of  a  small 
table  that  we  found  somewhere.  Now  that  it  is  white,  too,  I 
think  it  is  cunning.  And,  Cousin  Matilda,  I  give  you  three 
guesses  as  to  the  place  in  which  I  keep  my  sewing  machine !" 

"Why,  I  haven't  seen  it  yet.     In  the  kitchen  ?" 


26     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Goodness,  no !  Well,  I'll  tell  you !  This  looks  like  a  dress- 
ing table,  but  is  merely  a  shelf  with  a  mirror  above  it.  The 
shelf  has  a  cretonne  cover  and  'petticoat'  that  reaches  the  floor. 
And  underneath  it — behold  the  sewing  machine !  Bob  made 
the  shelf  high  enough  and  wide  enough  to  let  the  sewing 
machine  slip  under  it !  But,  Cousin  Matilda,  you  must  be  tired 
of  Bettina's  economies !  Please  sit  down  with  mother  in  the 
living  room  and  I  will  get  the  'party.'  " 

And  Bettina  wheeled  her  tea  cart  into  the  kitchen,  returning 
with  luncheon  napkins,  plates,  glasses,  a  pitcher  of  iced  fruit 
juice,  a  plate  of  little  chocolate  cakes,  and  several  sprays  of 
wild  roses. 

"What  delicious  little  cakes,  Bettina !  At  least  you  can't  be 
called  economical  when  you  serve  such  rich  and  dainty  food  as 
this!" 

"I  must  plead  guilty  still,  Cousin  Matilda.  I  made  these 
little  cakes  partly  from  dry  bread  crumbs.  The  fruit  juice  is 
mostly  from  the  pineapple  which  Bob  had  for  dessert  last  night. 
I  cooked  the  core  with  about  two  cups  of  water  and  added  it 
to  the  lemonade." 

"Bettina,  Bettina!  How  did  you  learn  these  things?  Rob- 
ert is  certainly  a  lucky  man,  and  I'm  sure  that  some  day  he 
will  be  a  wealthy  one!  You  must  give  me  the  recipes  you 
used !" 

And  Bettina  wrote  them  down  as  follows : 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Little  Chocolate  Cakes   (Twelve  cakes) 

2  eggs  I   C-dry  bread  crumbo 

%   C-butter     3  T-flour 
y2   C-sugar      1   t-vanilla 

3  squares  chocolate 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  cream  the  mixture.  Add 
the  beaten  eggs  and  stir  well.  Add  melted  chocolate,  bread 
crumbs,  flour  and  flavoring.  Spread  the  mixture  very  thinly 
on  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Shape  with  a  tiny  biscuit  cutter,  and  put  together  in  pairs  with 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  27 

mountain  cream  icing  between  and  on  top.     (Icing  recipe  al- 
ready given.) 

Fruit  Juice  (Eight  glasses) 

I  C-sugar      2  C-water 
il/t  C-lemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes  without  stirring,  add  lemon 
juice,  and  any  other  fruit  juices.  Cool  and  bottle.  Keep  on 
ice  and  dilute  with  ice  water  when  desired  for  use.  Serve 
mint  leaves  with  the  fruit  juice. 


JULY. 


The  market  is  full  of  delights  in  July: 

Fresh  vegetables,  berries,  red  cherries  for  pie! 

Good  housewives  and  telephones  seldom  agree, 
So  market  yourself!    You  can  buy  as  you  see! 


CHAPTER   VII 
A   NEW-FASHIONED   SUNDAY   DINNER 


** 'VT"  OU  W*M  g° t0  church  with 

«*•  us  this  morning,  Bet- 
tina?"  asked  Bob's  cousin  Henry, 
known  also  as  the  Rev.  Henry 
Clinkersmith,  as  he  came  into 
Bettina's  immaculate  kitchen  one 
Sunday. 

"Yes,  indeed,  I  will  go !"  Bet- 
tina  answered  him.    "Is  it  nearly 
ten  o'clock  ?    Oh,  yes,  nine  forty- 
five.     I'll   go   at   once   and   get 
ready." 

Cousin  Henry  had  arrived  late  Saturday  evening.  He  was 
rilling  the  pulpit  of  a  friend  that  Sunday  morning. 

Bettina  finished  arranging  the  low  bowl  of  pansies  which 
was  to  be  her  table  decoration.  "For  the  dinner  table,"  she 
explained  to  Cousin  Henry. 

"And  Bob,"  she  said  as  they  walked  to  church  (Cousin 
Henry  was  ahead  with  an  old  friend),  "I  do  believe  he  was 
worried  about  dinner.  There  wasn't  a  trace  of  any  prepara- 
tion to  be  seen!  You  know  I  made  the  cake  and  the  salad 
dressing  yesterday,  and  the  lettuce  was  on  the  ice.  The  sher- 
bet was  on  the  porch  (I  bought  it,  you  know),  and  the  lamb 
and  potatoes  were  in  the  cooker." 

"Well,  let  him  worry !  How  long  will  it  take  to  get  it  ready 
after  we  get  home?" 


29 


30     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"About  fifteen  minutes.  The  table  is  set,  but  I'll  have  to 
warm  the  plates  and  take  things  up.  Then  there's  the  gravy 
to  make,  of  course." 

"All  I  can  say  is  this,"  said  Cousin  Henry  at  dinner,  as  he 
passed  his  plate  for  a  second  helping,  "since  you've  explained 
the  mysteries  of  the  fireless  cooker,  I  realize  how  it  would 
have  helped  those  cold  Sunday  dinners  of  the  past  generation. 
The  women  could  have  obeyed  the  fourth  commandment  and 
given  their  families  a  good  Sunday  dinner,  too !" 

That  day  they  had : 

Leg  of  Lamb  with  Potatoes  Lamb   Gravy 

Head  Lettuce  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Mint  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Pineapple   Sherbet  Bettina's   Loaf   Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Roast  Leg  of   Lamb  with   Potatoes    (Ten   portions) 

A  4-lb.  leg  of  lamb        %  t-paprika 
6  large  potatoes  i  T-salt 

2  T-lard 

Wash  the  lamb  with  a  damp  cloth.  Wipe  dry  and  sprinkle 
with  two  teaspoons  of  salt.  Place  the  lard  in  a  frying-pan. 
When  hot,  add  the  lamb,  and  brown  well  on  all  sides.  Place 
the  meat  in  the  fireless  utensil.  Sprinkle  the  potatoes  with 
salt  and  paprika.  Arrange  these  about  the  leg  of  lamb.  Place 
the  disks,  heated  for  baking,  over  and  under  the  baking  pan. 
Cook  three  hours  in  the  fireless.     Use  the  drippings  for  gravy. 

Lamb    Gravy    (Four  portions) 

4  T-drippings         2  T-flour 
2/3  C-water  ]/2  t-salt 

Place  half  of  the  drippings  in  a  sauce-pan.  Add  the  flour, 
and  allow  it  to  brown.  Add  slowly  the  water,  salt  and  the 
rest  of  the  drippings  (two  tablespoonsful).     Boil  one  minute. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  31 

Mint   Sauce    (Four   portions) 

%  C-mint  leaves         4  T-vinegar 
x/2  C-boiling  water    Y%  t-paprika 
2  T-sugar  %  t-salt 

Chop  the  mint  leaves  very  fine.  Add  the  boiling  water  and 
sugar.  Cover  closely  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Add  the 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Loaf    Cake    (Bettina's    Nut    Special)    (Twelve    pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

1  C-"C"  sugar  %  C-nut-meats,  cut  fine 

1  egg  lA  t-salt 

il/2  C-flour  2/3  C-milk 

l/2  t-cinnamon  1  t-vanilla 

l/2  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  the  egg.  Mix  well. 
Add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  nut-meats,  salt,  milk, 
vanilla  and  lemon  extract.  Beat  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
loaf-cake  pan  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  Bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   VIII 
CELEBRATING  THE  FOURTH 

*  **VTOW,  boys,  run  and  play  while  Alice  and  I  set  the  picnic 

-L  ^  table !"  said  Bettina  to  Bob  and  Mr.  Harrison.  "See 
if  the  fish  are  biting !  Cultivate  your  patience  as  well  as  your 
appetites  and  we'll  surprise  you  soon !" 

"Bettina,  let  me  help  you  unpack.  Everything  looks  so 
dainty  and  interesting!"  said  Alice,  as  Bob  and  Mr.  Harrison 
strolled  off  toward  the  river.  "You  ought  to  have  allowed  me 
to  bring  something,  although  I'll  admit  that  I  do  enjoy  being 
surprised.     You  were  a  dear  to  bring  me  with  you !" 

"I  ?"  said  Bettina.  "Of  course  I'm  glad  to  have  you  here — 
no  one  is  better  fun — but  I  wish  you  had  heard  something  that 
Bob  told  me.  He  and  Harry  Harrison  were  planning  to  go 
fishing  today,  all  by  themselves,  until  Harry  suggested  that 
Bob  might  like  to  bring  me  along.  And  then  he  added  as  an 
afterthought,  that  as  three  is  a  crowd,  Miss  Alice  might  be 
induced  to  come  too.  (Why  is  it  that  'Miss  Alice'  or  'Miss 
Kate'  or  'Miss  May'  always  sounds  so  like  a  confirmed  bache- 
lor?) Bob  chuckled  when  he  told  me  how  careless  and  offhand 
Harry  tried  to  be !" 

"Betty,  how  pretty  those  pasteboard  plates  are  with  the  flag- 
seals  pasted  on  them !" 

"I  saw  some  ready-made  Fourth  of  July  plates,  but  it  was 
more  economical  to  make  my  own.  And  how  do  you  like  the 
red,  white  and  blue  paper  napkins  and  lunch  cloth?  'Lunch 
paper/  I  ought  to  say,  I  suppose.  Alice,  you  arrange  the  fruit 
in  the  center  in  this  basket,  with  some  napkins  around  it,  and 


32 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  83 

with  these  little  flags  sticking  out  of  it  in  every  direction.  But 
first,  my  dear,  please  tell  me  why  you  changed  the  subject 
when  I  was  speaking  of  Mr.  Harrison?" 

"Those  devilled  eggs  wrapped  in  frilled  tissue-paper  look 
just  like  torpedoes." 

"Alice,  Alice,  I  learned  something  new  about  you  today. 
Harry  said  that  society  girls  got  on  his  nerves,  but  that  'Miss 
Alice*  seemed  sensible  enough!" 

"Goodness,  Betty,  he  has  disagreed  with  every  single  thing 
I've  said,  so  far!  If  he  is  being  pleasant  behind  my  back,  I 
don't  see  why  he  should  be  so  disapproving  in  his  manner  to 
me !  But  if  he  is  really  beginning  to  think  me  sensible,  let  us 
by  all  means  encourage  him!  Hide  my  frivolous  new  hat  in 
the  lunch-basket,  and  give  me  something  useful  to  be  doing. 
Can't  I  appear  to  be  mixing  the  salad  ?  .  .  .  Honestly,  Betty, 
I  do  get  tired  of  society  as  a  single  interest.  But  what  else  is 
there  for  me  to  do?  Go  into  settlement  work?  I'd  be  a  joke 
at  that!     Learn  to  design  jewelry?    Take  singing  lessons ?" 

"Try  the  good  old  profession  of  matrimony.  Why  are  you 
so  fickle,  Alice,  my  dear?" 

"I'm  not ;  it's  the  men !  Every  sensible  one  I  meet  is — well, 
disagreeable  to  me!" 

"Meaning  Harry  Harrison  ?  He  appears  to  be  taking  quite 
an  interest,  at  least !" 

"That  is  merely  his  reforming  instinct  coming  to  the  surface. 
But — is  everything  ready  now?  We'll  sing  a  few  bars  of  the 
Star  Spangled  Banner,  and  I'm  sure  the  men  will  come  imme- 
diately !" 

The  lunch  table  was  set  with: 


Lobster  and  Salmon  Salad 

Ham   Sandwiches  Nut   Bread   Sandwiches 

Pickles  Radishes 

Potato  Chips  Devilled  Eggs 

Moist  Chocolate  Cake 

Bananas  Oranges 

Torpedo  Candies 

Lemonade 


34     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are   level) 

Lobster  and  Salmon  Salad   (Four  portions) 

I  C-salmon  6  sweet  pickles  cut  fine 

y2  C-lobster  3  hard-cooked  eggs,  sliced 

I  C-diced  cucumber  or  celery  1  t-salt 
y2  C-salad   dressing 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Use  a  silver  fork 
for  mixing.     Garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Ham  Sandwiches  (Four  portions) 

Y2.  C-chopped  ham      1  T-chopped  olives 

2  T-pickles  3  T-salad  dressing 

12  slices  bread 

Mix  ham,  olives  and  pickles  with  salad  dressing  and  spicad 
on  lettuce  or  nasturtium  leaves  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 
Trim  off  the  crusts,  and  cut  the  sandwiches  in  fancy  shapes. 

Devilled  Eggs   (Six  eggs) 

6  hard-cooked   eggs       1  t-melted  butter 
1  t-vinegar  J4  t-chopped  parsley 

Y\  t-mustard  %  t-salt 

Shell  the  eggs,  cut  lengthwise  in  half,  remove  yolks,  mash 
them  and  add  vinegar,  mustard,  melted  butter,  parsley  and  salt. 
Refill  the  whites  and  put  pairs  together.  Wrap  in  tissue  paper 
with  frilled  edges  to  represent  torpedoes. 

Moist  Chocolate  Cake  (Ten  portions) 

1/3  C-butter  1  C-flour 

1  C-sugar  i$4  t-baking  powder 

2  eggs  Yi  t-cinnamon 
Y2.  C-hot  mashed  potatoes  \i  t-clove 

1  ounce  melte.d  chocolate      Yz  t-nutmeg 
Ya  C-milk  1  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar.  Mix  well.  Add  the  egg 
yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  the  potato.  Stir,  add  the  chocolate, 
milk  and  then  all  the  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed 
and  sifted  together.  Fold  in  the  white  of  the  eggs  Deaten 
stiffly.  Add  the  vanilla.  Pour  into  two  layer-cake  pans  which 
have  been  prepared  with  waxed  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.    Ice  with  white  mountain  cream  icing. 


CHAPTER  IX 
BETTINA'S  FATHER  TRIES  HER  COOKING 

^QO  she  is  about  to  try  her  cooking  on  me,  is  she?"  said 

^  Bettina's  father  to  Bob,  as  he  sat  down  at  the  table. 
"Well,  I'll  admit  that  I  have  looked  forward  to  this  all  day. 
But  there  was  a  time  when  I  was  a  little  more  skeptical  of  Bet- 
tina's culinary  skill.  You  know,  when  mother  was  in  Califor- 
nia two  years  ago  last  winter " 

"Now,  Charlie,  you  know  that  all  girls  have  to  learn  at  some 
time  or  other,"  interrupted  Bettina's  mother.  "And  I  believe 
that  Bob  has  fared  pretty  well,  considering  that  Bettina  is  just 
beginning  to  keep  house " 

"I  should  say  so!"  said  Bob,  heartily.  "Why,  I'm  getting 
fat !     I  was  weighed  to-day,  and " 

"Don't  say  any  more,  Bob !  We'll  rent  the  house  and  take 
to  boarding!     If  you  get  fat " 

"No  boarding-houses  for  mine!  Not  after  your  cooking, 
Bettina!  I  had  enough  of  boarding  before  I  was  married. 
Say — how  long  ago  that  does  seem." 

"Has  the  time  dragged  as  much  as  that?  Well,  I'll  change 
the  subject.  Dad,  how  do  you  like  my  Japanese  garden?  I 
think  it's  pretty,  don't  you  ?" 

"I  certainly  do,  my  dear.    What  are  those  feathery  things  ?" 

"Why,  don't  you  know  that,  Father?  And  when  you  were 
a  boy,  you  worked  on  a  farm  one  summer,  too-  There";,  ex 
parsnip  and  a  horse  radish,  and  a  beet.  Then  there  are  a  few 
parsley  seeds  and  grass  seeds  on  a  tiny  sponge !  And  see  the 
little  shells  and  stones  that  Bob  and  I  collected  for  it." 

"Yes,  we  found  that  pink  stone  up  the  river  on  a  picnic  a 


36     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

year  ago  last  May,  before  we  were  engaged,  or  were  we  en- 
gaged then,  Bettina  ?    And  the  purple  one " 

"Oh,  you   needn't   reminisce,"   Bettina   interrupted   hastily. 
"Eat  your  dinner." 

"Every  little  stone 
Has  a  meaning  all  its  own, 

Every  little  shell 

But  it  wouldn't  do  to  tell!' 


"I  composed  that  poem  just  this  minute,"  said  Bob,  undis- 
turbed. 

"Will  you  help  me  get  the  dessert  now,  Robert?  Are  you 
ready,  Mother?    And  Father?" 

"Yes,  indeed.  A  very  fine  dinner,  Bettina.  We  never  have 
steak  fixed  this  way  at  home;  do  we,  Mother?  Can  we  try  it 
some  day  soon  ?" 

"I  have  something  for  dessert  that  you  like,  Dad.  Guess 
what !" 

"What  is  it  ?  Oh,  lemon  pie !  That  is  fine,  I  can  tell  you ! 
But  I  know  already  that  it  won't  be  as  good  as  your  mother's ! 
Still,  we'll  try  it  and  see!" 

That  evening  for  dinner,  Bettina  served : 

Devilled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Baking-powder  Biscuits  Jelly 

Cucumber  and  Radish  Salad 

Lemon  Pie 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Devilled  Steak  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter  H  t-pepper 

i  T-onion  %  t-paprika 

iy2  lb.  flank  steak  ^  inch  thick  i  t-mustard 

2  T-flour  i  T-vinegar 

i  t-salt  i  T-flour 
2  C-water 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  slice  the  onion  in  it  and  saute 
gently  until  golden  brown  in  color.     Remove  the  onion  from 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  37 

the  butter,  cut  the  flank  steak  into  pieces  three  by  two  inches. 
Dredge  these  lightly  in  one  tablespoon  flour  and  saute  in  the 
butter  until  well  browned.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  frying- 
pan  ;  add  the  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  mustard,  vinegar  and  flour. 
Mix  all  together  and  add  the  water  slowly.  Replace  the  steak 
in  the  pan,  cover  closely  and  simmer  one  hour,  or  until  the 
steak  is  tender.  Serve  on  a  warm  platter  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  (Fifteen  biscuits) 

2  C-flour  y^  t-salt 

4  t-baking  powder       3  T-lard 

2/3  C-milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  cut  in  the 
lard  with  a  knife  until  the  consistency  of  cornmeal.  Add  the 
milk,  mixing  with  a  knife.  Pat  into  a  rectangular  shape,  one- 
half  inch  thick,  on  a  floured  board.  Cut  with,  a  biscuit  cutter 
one  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter.  Place  side  by  side  in  a 
tin  pan.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Cucumber  and  Radish  Salad  (Four  portions) 

1  C-diced    cucumbers  1  t-salt 

y2  C-diced  radishes  %  t-pepper 

2  t-chopped  onion  4  T-salad    dressing 

4  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  the  cucumbers,  radishes,  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
salad  dressing.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Lemon  Pie 

Filling  2  egg-yolks 

1  C-sugar  ix/2  C-water 

y2  t-salt  1  t-grated   rind 

juice  1  large  lemon       y2  C-flour 
1  t-butter 

Beat  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  beat;  add 
the  flour,  salt,  water,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  the  pastry  shell,  cover  with 
meringue  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  meringue  is 
brown. 


38     A  Thousand  Ways  to  Please  a  Husband 

Pie  Crust 

I  C-flour  yz  t-salt 

1/3  C-lard  2  T-cold    water 

Cut  the  lard  into  the  flour  and  salt  with  a  knife.  Add  the 
water  gradually,  lifting  with  a  knife  that  portion  that  was 
moistened  first  and  pushing  it  to  one  side  of  the  bowl,  wet  an- 
other portion  and  continue  until  all  is  moistened,  using  just 
enough  water  to  hold  together.  Put  together  and  place  on  a 
floured  board.  Roll  the  crust  to  fit  the  pan.  Press  the  crust 
firmly  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Prick  the  sides  and  bottom 
with  a  fork.  Crinkle  the  edges  of  the  crust ;  have  the  crust  ex- 
tend above  the  edge  of  the  pan  to  make  a  deep  shell  for  the 
filling.  Bake  the  crust  first  to  make  it  more  crisp.  Do  not 
butter  the  pan.  Bake  from  five  to  six  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  the  crust  is  done,  add  the  filling  and  cover  this  with 
the  meringue. 

Meringue 

2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  5  T-sugar  (powdered  preferred) 

y2  t-lemon  extract 

Do  not  beat  the  egg-whites  until  ready  for  use.  Then  beat 
until  stiff  and  add  the  sugar  and  extract,  beating  only  a  minute. 
Pile  the  meringue  lightly  on  top  of  the  filling,  and  bake  the 
whole  slowly.  If  baked  too  quickly,  the  meringue  will  rise  and 
then  fall.    Bake  only  until  it  turns  a  golden  brown. 


CHAPTER    X 
A  MOTOR  PICNIC 

^TJ  ELLO,  Bettina ;  this  is  Bob.    What  are  you  having  for 

*  ■■■    dinner  to-night?" 

"It's  all  in  the  fireless  cooker !    Why  ?" 

"Couldn't  you  manage  to  make  a  picnic  supper  of  it?  One 
of  the  men  at  the  office  has  invited  us  to  go  motoring  to-night 
with  him  and  his  wife,  and,  of  course,  I  said  we'd  be  delighted. 
They're  boarding,  poor  things,  and  I  asked  if  we  couldn't 
bring  the  supper.  He  seemed  glad  to  have  me  suggest  it.  I 
suppose  he  hasn't  had  any  home  cooking  for  months.  Do  you 
suppose  you  could  manage  the  lunch  ?    How  about  it  ?" 

"Why,  let  me  think !    How  soon  must  we  start?" 

"We'll  be  there  in  an  hour  or  a  little  less.  Don't  bother  about 
it — get  anything  you  happen  to  have." 

"It's  fine  to  go,  dear.    Of  course,  I'll  be  ready.    Good-bye !" 

Bettina's  brain  was  busy.  There  was  a  veal  loaf  baking  in 
one  compartment  of  the  cooker,  and  on  the  other  side,  some 
Boston  brown  bread  was  steaming.  Her  potatoes  were  cooked 
already  for  creaming,  and  although  old  potatoes  would  have 
been  better  for  the  purpose,  she  might  make  a  salad  of  them} 
As  she  hastily  put  on  some  eggs  to  hard-cook,  she  inspected  her 
ice  box.  Yes,  those  cold  green  beans,  left  from  last  night's 
dinner,  would  be  good  in  the  salad.  What  else?  "It  needs 
something  to  give  it  character,"  she  reflected.  "A  little  canned 
pimento — and,  yes — a  few  of  the  pickles  in  that  jar." 

Of  course,  she  had  salad  dressing — she  was  never  without 
it.  Sandwiches?  The  brown  bread  would  be  too  fresh  and 
soft  for  sandwiches,  but  she  could  keep  it  hot,  and  take  some 


SU 


40     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

butter  along.  "I'm  glad  it  is  cool  to-day.  We'll  need  hot 
coffee  in  the  thermos  bottle,  and  I  can  make  it  a  warm  supper — 
except  for  the  salad." 

She  took  the  veal  loaf  and  the  steamed  brown  bread  from 
the  cooker,  and  put  them  into  the  oven  to  finish  cooking. 

"How  lucky  it  is  that  I  made  those  Spanish  buns !  And  the 
bananas  that  were  to  have  been  sliced  for  dessert,  I  can  just 
take  along  whole." 

When  Bettina  heard  the  auto  horn,  and  then  Bob's  voice,  she 
was  putting  on  her  hat. 

"Well,  Betty,  could  you  manage  it  ?" 

"Yes,  indeed,  dear.  Everything  is  ready.  The  thermos  bot- 
tle has  coffee  in  it,  piping  hot ;  the  lunch  basket  over  there  is 
packed  with  the  warm  things  wrapped  tight,  and  that  pail  with 
the  burlap  over  it  is  a  temporary  ice  box.  It  holds  a  piece  of 
ice,  and  beside  it  is  the  cream  for  the  coffee  and  the  potato 
salad.  It  is  cool  to-day,  but  I  thought  it  best  to  pack  them  that 
way." 

"You  are  the  best  little  housekeeper  in  this  town,"  said  Bob 
as  he  kissed  her.  "I  don't  believe  anyone  else  could  have  man- 
aged a  picnic  supper  on  such  short  notice.  Come  on  out  and 
meet  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dixon.  May  I  tell  them  that  they  have  a 
fine  spread  coming?" 

"Don't  you  dare,  sir.  It's  a  very  ordinary  kind  of  a  sup- 
per, and  even  you  are  apt  to  be  disappointed." 

But  he  wasn't. 

Bettina's  picnic  supper  that  cool  day  consisted  of: 

Warm  Veal  Loaf  Cold  Potato  Salad 

Fresh  Brown  Bread  Butter 

Spanish  Buns  Bananas 

Hot  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Veal  Loaf   (Six  to  eight  portions) 

2  lbs.  lean  veal  4  t-onion   salt 

y2  lb.  salt  pork  1  T-salt 

6  large   crackers  H  t-pepper 

2  T-lemon   juice  4  T-cream 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  41 

Put  two  crackers  in  the  meat  grinder,  add  bits  of  meat  and 
pork  and  the  rest  of  the  crackers.  The  crackers  first  and  last 
prevent  the  pork  and  meat  from  sticking  to  the  grinder.  Add 
other  ingredients  in  order  named.  Pack  in  a  well-buttered 
oread-pan.  Smooth  evenly  on  top,  brush  with  white  of  an  Qgg 
and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Baste  frequently.  The 
meat  may  be  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker  between  two  stones.  It 
is  perfectly  satisfactory  cooked  this  way,  and  requires  no 
basting, 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (Six  portions) 

I   C-rye  or  graham  flour  $4  C-molasses 

I  C-cornmeal  JA   C-sugar 

I   C-white  flour  il/2   C-sour    milk    or    i%    C-sweet 

I  t-salt  milk   or  water 

iV2  t-soda  2/3  C-raisins 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  liquid.  Fill 
well-buttered  moulds  two-thirds  full,  butter  the  top  of  mould, 
and  steam  three  and  one-half  hours.  Remove  from  moulds 
and  place  in  an  oven  to  dry  ten  minutes  before  serving.  1 — If 
sweet  milk  is  used,  1  T-vinegar  to  1^4  C  will  sour  the  milk. 
2 — Baking  powder  cans,  melon  moulds,  lard  pails  or  any  at- 
tractively shaped  tin  cans  may  be  used  as  a  mould.  3 — Two 
methods  of  steaming  are  used:  (a)  Regular  steamer  in  which 
the  mould,  either  large  or  individual,  is  placed  over  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Buttered  papers  may  be  tied  firmly  over  the 
tops  of  uncovered  moulds,  (b)  Steaming  in  boiling  water. 
The  mould  is  placed  on  a  small  article  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan 
of  boiling  water.  This  enables  the  water  to  circulate  around 
the  mould.  Care  must  be  observed  in  keeping  the  kettle  two- 
thirds  full  of  boiling  water  all  of  the  time  of  cooking.  (Bet- 
tina  used  the  method  in  the  fireless  cooker.)  She  started 
the  brown  bread  in  the  cooker  utensil  on  the  top  of  the  stove. 
When  the  water  was  boiling  vigorously,  she  placed  it  over  one 
hot  stone  in  the  cooker.  The  water  came  two-thirds  of  the  dis- 
tance to  the  top  of  her  cans.  In  the  cooker,  she  did  not  have  to 
watch  for  fear  the  water  would  boil  away.  After  fastening 
the  lid  tightly  on  the  cooker-kettle  in  which  the  bread  was  to 
steam,  she  did  not  look  at  it  again  for  four  hours.  (It  takes 
a  little  longer  in  the  cooker  than  on  the  stove.) 


CHAPTER  XI 
BETTINA  HAS  A  CALLER 

THE  next  morning  Bettina  was  alone  in  her  little  kitchen 
when  the  door  bell  rang. 

"Why,  Mrs.  Dixon ;  how  do  you  do  ?"  she  said,  as  she 
opened  the  door  and  recognized  the  visitor.  "Won't  you  come 
in?" 

It  must  be  admitted  that  Bettina  was  somewhat  embarrassed 
at  the  unexpected  call  at  so  unconventional  a  time.  Mrs.  Dixon 
was  dressed  in  a  trim  street  costume,  but  under  her  veil  Bet- 
tina could  see  that  her  eyes  were  red,  and  her  lips  quivered  as 
she  answered : 

"Forgive  me  for  coming  so  early,  but  I  just  had  to.  I  know 
you'll  think  me  silly  to  talk  to  you  confidentially  when  I  met 
you  only  yesterday,  but  I  do  want  your  advice  about  some- 
thing. You  mustn't  stop  what  you  are  doing.  Couldn't  I  come 
into  the  kitchen  and  talk  while  you  work?" 

"Why,  my  dear,  of  course  you  can,"  said  Bettina,  trying  to 
put  her  at  her  ease.  "You  can't  guess  what  I  was  doing!  I 
was  washing  my  pongee  dress;  someone  told  me  of  such  a 
good  way!" 

"Why,  could  you  do  it  all  yourself?"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  open- 
ing her  eyes  wide.    "Why  not  send  it  to  be  dry-cleaned  ?" 

"Of  course  I  might,"  said  Bettina,  "but  it  would  be  expen- 
sive, and  I  do  like  to  save  a  little  money  every  month  from 
my  housekeeping  allowance.  There  are  always  so  many  things 
I  want  to  get.  You  see  I'm  doing  this  in  luke-warm,  soapy 
water — throwing  the  soap-suds  up  over  the  goods,  then  I'll 
rinse  it  well,  and  hang  it  in  the  shade  to  drip  until  it  gets  dry. 


42 


With  Bettina  s  Best  Recipes  43 

I  won't  press  it  till  it  is  fully  dry,  because  if  I  do,  it  will  be 
spotted." 

"How  do  you  learn  things  like  that?" 

"Oh,  since  I've  been  married,  and  even  before,  when  I 
thought  about  keeping  house,  I  began  to  pick  up  all  sorts  of 
good  ideas.  I  like  economizing;  it  gives  me  an  opportunity 
to  use  all  the  ingenuity  I  have." 

"Does  it?  I  always  thought  it  would  be  awfully  tiresome. 
You  see,  I've  lived  in  a  hotel  all  my  life ;  my  mother  never 
was  strong,  and  I  was  the  only  child.  I  liked  it,  and  since  I've 
been  married,  we've  lived  the  same  way.  I  never  thought  of 
anything  else  and  I  supposed  Frank  would  like  it,  too — but 
lately — oh,  all  the  last  year — he's  been  begging  me  to  let  him 
find  us  a  house.  And  then" — (Bettina  saw  that  her  eyes  had 
filled  with  tears) — "he  has  been  so  different.  You  have  no  idea, 
my  dear.  Why — he  hasn't  been  at  home  with  me  two  even- 
ings a  week — and " 

"You  must  be  dreadfully  unhappy,"  interrupted  Bettina, 
wondering  what  she  could  say,  since  she  disliked  particularly 
to  listen  to  any  account  of  domestic  difficulties.  "But  why  not 
try  keeping  house?  Maybe  that  would  be  better.  Why,  Bob 
doesn't  like  to  be  away  from  home  any  evenings  at  all." 

"But  you've  just  been  married !"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  tactlessly. 
"Wait  and  see  how  he'll  be  after  a  few  years !" 

"Well,  that's  all  the  more  reason  for  trying  to  make  him  like 
his  home.    Have  you  thought  of  taking  a  house  ?" 

"That  was  just  the  reason  I  came  to  you.  You  seem  to  be 
so  happy  living  this  way — and  it  surprised  me.  I  knew  last 
evening  what  Frank  was  thinking  when  he  saw  this  little  house 
— and  then  when  you  unpacked  the  lunch — tell  me  honestly, 
did  you  cook  it  yourself?" 

"Of  course,"  said  Bettina,  smiling. 

"Wasn't  it  hard  to  learn  ?  Why,  I  can't  cook  a  thing — I  can't 
even  make  coffee !  Frank  says  if  he  could  only  have  one  break- 
fast that  was  fit  to  eat "  and  she  buried  her  face  in  her 

handkerchief. 

"Why,  Mrs.  Dixon !"  cried  Bettina,  cheerfully,  though  her 
heart  was  beating  furiously.    "Your  trouble  is  the  easiest  one 


44     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

in  the  world  to  remedy !  Your  husband  is  just  hungry — that's 
all !  I'll  tell  you — we'll  make  this  a  little  secret  between  us,  arid 
have  such  fun  over  it!  You  do  just  as  I  tell  you  for  one 
month  and  I'll  guarantee  that  Frank  will  be  at  home  every  sin- 
gle minute  that  he  can  !" 

"Do  you  suppose  I  can  learn?" 

"I'll  show  you  every  single  thing.  We'll  slip  out  this  very 
day  and  look  for  a  little  house — to  surprise  Frank !  And  I'll 
teach  you  to  cook  by  easy  stages !" 

"Oh,  will  you?"  smiled  Mrs.  Dixon,  showing  an  adorable 
dimple  in  her  round  cheek.  "You  don't  know  how  much  bet- 
ter I  feel  already  !     When  can  we  begin  ?" 

"Right  now — with  coffee — real,  sure  'nough  coffee  that  will 
make  Frank's  eyes  stick  out !     Have  you  a  percolator  ?" 

"No,  but  I  can  get  one." 

"It  isn't  necessary  at  all.  I'll  tell  you  how  to  do  without  it, 
and  then  using  one  will  be  perfectly  simple." 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Coffee  (Four  cups) 

7  T-coffee  *A  T-egg  white 

3  T-cold  water  4J4  C-boiling  water 

Scald  the  coffee  pot,  add  the  coffee,  cold  water  and  egg- 
white.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  the  boiling  water.  Boil  two  min- 
utes.   Allow  to  stand  in  the  pot  one  minute.    Serve. 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins 

2  C-flour  i  egg 

4  t-baking  powder  I  C-milk 

YA  t-salt  I  T-melted   butter 

*4  C-sugar 

Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
sugar.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk;  add  these  liquid  ingredi- 
ents to  the  dry  ones.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  the  melted 
butter.  Fill  well  buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 


CHAPTER   XII 
BETTINA  AND  THE  EXPENSE  BUDGET 

CCn  UTH  asked  me  today  how  we  manage  our  finances," 

A^  said  Bettina  over  the  dinner  table.  "She  said  that  she 
and  Fred  were  wondering  what  plan  was  best.  I'm  so  glad  I 
have  a  definite  household  allowance  and  that  we  have  bulgeted 
our  expenses  so  successfully.  The  other  day  I  was  reading  an 
article  by  Carolyn  Claymore  in  which  she  says  that  three- 
fourths  of  the  domestic  troubles  are  caused  by  disagreements 
about  money." 

"Then  we  haven't  much  to  quarrel  about,  have  we,  Betty? 
That  is  true  in  more  than  one  sense.  But  I'm  sure  that  this 
way  seems  to  suit  us  to  a  T." 

'Tm  even  saving  money,  Bob." 

"I  don't  see  how  you  can  when  you  give  me  such  good 
things  to  eat,  and  when  we  have  so  much  company." 

"Well,  I  plan  ahead,  you  know — plan  for  my  left-overs  be- 
fore they  are  left,  even.  I  do  think  that  an  instinct  for  buying 
and  planning  is  better  than  an  instinct  for  cooking.  And  either 
one  can  be  cultivated.  But  it  was  certainly  hard  to  get  that 
budget  of  expenses  fixed  satisfactorily,  wasn't  it?  I  told  Ruth 
that  no  two  families  are  alike,  and  that  I  couldn't  tell  her  just 
what  they  ought  to  spend  for  clothes,  or  just  what  groceries 
ought  to  cost.  After  all,  it  is  an  individual  matter  which 
things  are  necessities  and  which  are  luxuries.  The  chief  thing 
is  to  live  within  your  means,  and  save  as  well  as  invest  some- 
thing— and  at  the  same  time  be  comfortable  and  happy.  I  told 
Ruth  we  started  with  the  fixed  sums  and  the  absolute  neces- 


45 


46     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

sities,  and  worked  backward.  I  told  her  they  must  absolutely 
be  saving  something,  if  only  a  quarter  a  week.  Then,  that 
Fred  must  manage  the  budget  of  expenses  that  comes  within 
his  realm,  and  not  interfere  with  hers,  and  that  she  must  do 
the  same  with  the  household  expenditures,  and  not  worry  him. 
It  takes  a  lot  of  adjusting  to  make  the  system  work  satisfac- 
torily, but  it  is  certainly  worth  it." 

"Did  you  tell  Ruth  about  the  envelope  system  that  my  sister 
Harriet,  uses  ?  She  says  she  is  so  careless  naturally  that  when 
George  gives  her  her  allowance  each  month,  she  has  to  put  the 
actual  cash  in  separate  envelopes,  and  then  vow  to  herself  that 
she  will  not  borrow  from  the  gas  money  to  make  the  change 
for  the  grocer-boy,  and  so  forth.  That  is  the  only  way  she 
can  teach  herself." 

"My  cousin's  wife  used  to  keep  the  most  wonderful  and 
complete  accounts,  but  she  couldn't  tell  without  a  lot  of  work 
in  hunting  up  the  items  how  much  she  already  had  spent  for 
groceries  or  clothes  or  anything.  She  had  to  change  her 
method,  and  it  was  she  who  taught  me  to  keep  my  accounts  in 
parallel  columns,  a  page  for  a  week,  because  you  give  me  my 
allowance  each  week.  I  like  this  way  so  much,  for  I  can  tell 
at  a  glance  how  my  expenses  are  comparing  with  the  allotted 
sum." 

"I  like  to  look  at  your  funny,  neat  little  notebook,  Bettina, 
all  ruled  so  carefully  for  the  week,  and  the  headings,  such  as 
gas,  electricity,  groceries,  meat,  milk,  laundry,  across  the  top." 

"Don't  make  fun  of  my  notebook.  I  couldn't  keep  house 
without  it.  In  case  of  fire,  I'd  save  it  first  of  all,  I  know !  It 
is  almost  like  a  diary  to  me!  I  can  look  back  over  it  and 
remember,  'That  was  the  day  Bob  brought  Mr.  Green  home 
and  we  almost  ran  out  of  potatoes !'  Or  This  was  the  day  I 
thought  my  brown  bread  had  failed,  but  Bob  seemed  to  like 
it !'  "  she  exaggerated. 

"Failures  in  cooking !  Why,  Bettina,  I  don't  know  the  mean- 
ing of  the  words !  And  I  don't  see  how  you  can  feed  me  so 
well  on  the  sum  I  give  you  for  the  purpose.  I'd  feel  guilty, 
only  you  don't  look  a  bit  unhappy  or  overworked." 

"I  should  say  not !" 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  41 

"You  surely  don't  remember  how  to  cook  all  the  things  you 
give  me  1" 

"No,  indeed,  Bob,  not  definitely,  that  is.  You  see,  on  the 
shelf  by  my  account  book,  which  you  smile  over,  I  have  my 
card  index  with  lots  and  lots  of  recipes  filed  away.  Then  I 
have  notebooks,  too,  with  all  sorts  of  suggestions  tucked  in 
them  just  where  I  can  lay  my  hand  on  them." 

"Betty  dear,  you've  given  me  a  real  glimpse  into  your  busi- 
ness-like methods !  Some  men  seem  to  think  that  it  doesn't 
take  brains  to  run  a  house  well,  but  they  don't  know.  It  re- 
quires just  as  much  executive  ability  and  common  sense  as  it 
does  to  manage  a  big  business." 

That  night  the  dinner  for  two  consisted  of : 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

Cold  Ham  Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Rice 

Light  Rolls  Peach  Butter 

Hot  Fudge  Cake 

CA11  measurements  are  level) 

Light  Rolls 

2  T-sugar  ^  C-flour 

Yi  t-salt  2  T-melted  butter 

l/2  C-scalded  milk  i  egg,  well-beaten 

^2  yeast  cake  2  T-lukewarm  water 

flour 

Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the  scalded  milk  and  when  luke- 
warm, add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the  lukewarm  water,  and 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  flour.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  Then  add  the  melted  butter,  the  well-beaten  egg, 
and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  Roll  to 
one-half  an  inch  in  thickness  and  shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter. 
Butter  the  top  of  each.  Fold  over,  place  in  a  buttered  pan, 
close  together.  Let  rise  again  for  forty-five  minutes  and  then 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Rice 

6  green   peppers  1  T-chopped  green  pepper 

1  C-white  sauce  3  onions  cooked  and  cut  fine 

Yi  C-cooked  rice  l/2  t-paprika 


4-8     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cut  the  stem  ends  from  the  peppers,  and  remove  all  seeds ; 
add  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  each  pepper,  fill 
with  water  and  allow  to  stand  one-half  hour.  Mix  one  cup  of 
white  sauce  with  the  rice,  onions,  chopped  pepper  and  paprika. 
Fill  the  pepper  cases  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Hot  Fudge  Cake 

1/3  C-butter  y2  C-hot  water 

1  C-sugar  2  C-flour 

2  egg  yolks  1  t-cinnamon 
2  squares  (or  ounces)  of  choc-     1  t-soda 

olate,  melted  1  t-baking  powder 

x/2  C-molasses  */$  t-salt 
y2  C-sour   milk  1  t-vanilla 

2  egg  whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  creaming.  Add 
the  egg  yolks,  melted  chocolate,  molasses,  sour  milk,  hot  water, 
flour,  cinnamon,  soda,  baking  powder,  salt  and  vanilla.  Beat 
two  minutes,  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fill  well- 
buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  as  a  dessert,  with  whipped 
cream. 


CHAPTER   XIII 
MRS.   DIXON   AND   BETTINA'S  EXPERIMENT 

*fT'M  so  happy!"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  as  she  stopped  at  Bet- 

«■■  tina's  door  one  cool  morning.  "But  I'm  nervous,  too ! 
What  if  Frank  shouldn't  like  it?" 

"Oh,  but  he  will !"  Bettina  assured  her.  "He'll  think  he's 
the  luckiest  man  in  town,  and  I  almost  believe  that  he  is !  He'll 
love  that  dear  little  white  house  with  the  screened  porch  !  Why, 
the  very  grass  looks  as  if  it  longed  to  spell  'Welcome'  like 
•some  of  the  door  mats  I've  seen !  And  think  of  the  flower 
boxes !  You  were  very  fortunate  to  rent  it  for  a  year,  fur- 
nished so  nicely,  and  probably  when  that  time  is  up  you'll  be 
ready  to  build  or  buy  one  of  your  own." 

"You  are  a  dear  to  cheer  me  up  this  way,  but  I'm  nervous  in 
spite  of  you.  Perhaps  I  should  have  consulted  Frank  before 
I  promised  to  take  the  house." 

"But  he  has  been  urging  you  to  keep  house  for  so  long! 
And  I  know  he'll  be  grateful  to  you  for  sparing  him  the  worry 
of  hunting  one  himself.     Besides,  he'll  like  being  surprised." 

"Well,  I'll  go  back  to  the  hotel  for  luncheon  with  him,  and 
then  I'll  phone  him  later  to  meet  me  at  the  house.  I  won't 
tell  him  a  thing;  I'll  just  give  him  the  address..  Til  say  it's 
very,  very  important.  That  will  surprise  him  and  perhaps  will 
frighten  him  a  little.  He  never  does  leave  his  office  during 
business  hours,  but  it  will  take  only  a  few  minutes  for  him  to 
run  out  here  in  the  car.  Goodness,  I'm  forgetting  what  I  came 
for!  Do  you  suppose  I  am  too  stupid  to  try  to  make  those 
Spanish  buns  Frank  liked  so  much?  We  had  them  at  the 
picnic,  you  know.  I  have  three  hours  after  luncheon  until  he 
■comes,  and  I  just  long  to  give  him  some  good  coffee  and  some 


49 


50     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Spanish  buns  that  I've  made  myself !  That  little  kitchen  looks 
as  if  it  would  be  so  nice  to  work  in !  I  tried  coffee  a  little 
while  ago  over  at  the  house,  and  really — it  was  fine !  It  looked 
just  like  yours !  I  was  so  surprised !  To  think  of  my  doing 
such  things!" 

"Of  course  you  could  make  Spanish  buns;  it  would  be  fine 
if  you  would.  I'll  tell  you, — why  not  let  me  come  over  for  an 
hour  right  after  luncheon  and  superintend?  Then  I'll  slip 
home  so  that  you  can  be  alone  when  Frank  comes.  I  could 
tell  you  some  other  things  about  cooking  while  we're  there 
together, — things  you  may  write  down  in  your  new  notebook. 
For  example,  I've  often  wondered  that  so  few  housekeepers 
can  make  good  white  sauce." 

"What  in  the  world  is  that?" 

"It's  used  in  cream  soups,  and  it's  the  cream  part  of  creamed 
vegetables  and  meat  and  fish,  and  then  there  is  a  thicker  white 
sauce  that  is  used  to  bind  croquettes — that  is,  hold  the  ingre- 
dients together.  There  are  really  four  kinds  of  white  sauces 
and  they  are  very  simple  to  make.  I  think  everyone  should 
know  the  right  way  to  make  them,  for  they  are  useful  in 
preparing  so  many  good  things." 

"I'm  glad  we'll  be  near  you  because  I  can  ask  you  so  many- 
questions." 

"And  I'm  glad  that  it  is  summer,  because  you  can  have  so 
many  things  that  require  little  or  no  cooking,  and  by  fall,  I'm 
sure  you  will  be  an  accomplished  housekeeper." 

"Will  you  come  over  at  two,  then,  or  earlier  if  you  can?" 

"Of  course  I  will !" 

And  as  Mrs.  Dixon  hurried  away  Bettina  felt  a  sympathetic 
thrill  at  the  happiness  two  other  people  were  about  to  find. 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Spanish  Buns  (Twelve  Buns) 

]/2  C-butter  3  t-baking  powder 

1  C-sugar  1  t-cinnamon 

1  egg-yolk  Va,  t-powdered    cloves 

y3  C-milk  1  egg-white  beaten  stiffly 

iH  C-flour  1  t-vanilla 

Y*  C-currants 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  51 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  tgg  yolk.  Mix  and 
sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  add  these 
and  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat  one  minute.  Add  the 
vanilla  and  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Bake  in  well  buttered 
muffin  pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice  with  con- 
fectioner's icing. 

Confectioner's  Icing  (Twelve  portions) 

3  T-cream  I  t-vanilla 

i  C-powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  cream  and  vanilla,  add  sugar  slowly  until  the  con- 
sistency to  spread  (more  sugar  may  be  needed).  This  is  a 
most  satisfactory  frosting  and  is  easily  and  quickly  made.  It 
is  suitable  for  hot  weather. 

White  Sauces  (Four  portions) 
i — Soup 

I  T-flour  i  C-liquid 

1  T-butter  &  t-*alt 

This  is  the  consistency  for  creamed  soups. 

a — Vegetable  Sauce 

2  T-butter  i  C-milk 
2  T-flour                       yA  t-salt 

This  white  sauce  is  used  for  creamed  vegetables,  creamed 
fish,  etc.     This  amount  is  required  for  two  cups  of  vegetables. 

3 — Pattie  Sauce 

3  T-butter  i  C-milk 

3  T-flour  1/3  t-salt 

This  sauce  is  used  for  oyster  or  other  patties. 

4 — Croquette  Sauce 

3  T-butter  i  C-milk 

4  T-flour  1/3  t-salt 

This  is  called  a  binding  white  sauce  and  is  used  to  hold  other 
ingredients  together. 


52     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Method  of  Preparing  White  Sauces 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  flour  and  salt, 
stirring  constantly.  When  well  mixed  add  the  liquid,  a  little 
at  a  time.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  This  is  far 
better  than  mixing  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  liquid  when 
cold,  as  so  many  people  do  when  creaming  potatoes  or  other 
things.  If  the  white  sauce  seems  too  thick  for  the  purpose, 
thin  with  a  little  more  liquid  before  removing  from  the  fire. 


CHAPTER    XIV 
A   RAINY-DAY   DINNER 

THE  rain  had  been  falling  all  day  in  a  heavy  downpour, 
and  Bettina  had  ventured  out  only  to  gather  some  red 
clover  blooms  for  the  porch  table,  which  she  was  now  setting 
for  dinner.  In  spite  of  the  rain,  it  was  not  cold,  and  she  liked 
the  contrast  of  the  cheerful  little  table,  with  its  white  cloth  and 
bright  silver,  and  the  gray  day  just  outside  the  screen. 

"If  Bob  would  only  come  home  early,  how  nice  it  would  be !" 
she  thought.     "Perhaps  that's  he  at  the  telephone  now." 

However,  it  proved  to  be  Mrs.  Dixon.  "I  phoned  to  ask 
you  if  I  should  throw  away  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  I've  just 
used  the  whites." 

"Oh,  no,  Mrs.  Dixon !  Beat  them  up  well,  and  add  a  little 
cold  water  to  them.  Then  set  them  in  the  ice-box.  They 
will  be  just  as  good  later  as  they  would  be  now.  You  may 
want  them  for  salad  dressing  or  something  else." 

"If  I  ever  have  the  white  of  the  egg  left,  shall  I  treat  that 
the  same  way?" 

"No,  don't  beat  that  up  at  all,  nor  add  any  water.  Just  set 
it  in  the  refrigerator  as  it  is.  I'm  so  glad  you  called  up,  Mrs. 
Dixon.  Will  you  and  your  husband  take  dinner  with  us  next 
Sunday  ?    Perhaps  we  might  all  go  to  church  first." 

"We'd  love  to  do  that!  I've  just  been  worrying  over  Sun- 
day dinner,  and  you've  restored  my  peace  of  mind.  But  won't 
it  be  a  great  deal  of  work  for  you  ?" 

"I  won't  let  it  be.  I  don't  believe  in  those  heavy,  elaborate 
Sunday  dinners  that  take  all  the  morning  to  prepare.  We'll 
just  come  home  from  church  and  have  it  in  half  an  hour.  You 
may  help  me." 


53 


54     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We'd  love  to  come.  I  have  so  much  to  tell  you.  Fve  been 
very  busy,  but  Frank  has  helped,  and  it  has  been  such  fun! 
You  don't  know  how  he  enjoys  the  little  house !  Well,  good- 
bye till  tomorrow !" 

"Boo !"  shouted  Bob  in  her  ear,  as  she  hung  up  the  receiver. 
"I  discovered  your  dark  secret  this  morning!  Frank  Dixon 
told  me!" 

"Well,  what  did  you  think  of  it?" 

"The  only  possible  solution  in  that  case.  You  are  their  good 
angel — that  is,  if  she  doesn't  poison  Frank  with  her  cooking, 
or  burn  the  house  down  when  she's  lighting  the  fire." 

"She  won't,  don't  worry !  She  takes  to  housekeeping  as  if 
she  had  always  done  it.  Her  house  is  immaculate;  she  has 
been  cleaning  and  dusting  and  polishing  from  morning  to  night. 
I'm  almost  ashamed  of  mine !" 

"I'm  not!"  said  Bob,  decidedly.  "I  don't  see  how  you  can 
keep  it  clean  at  all  with  a  man  like  me  scattering  papers  and 
cigar  ashes  everywhere.  And  I'm  always  losing  my  belong- 
ings, and  always  will,  I  suppose." 

"That's  only  a  sign  that  we  haven't  discovered  the  proper 
place  for  them  all  yet.  But  we'll  work  it  out  in  time.  Well, 
are  you  hungry  ?" 

"Hungry  ?    I  should  say  so !    Why,  I  could  almost  eat  you !" 

"Well,  Bob,  we  have  a  rainy-day  dinner  tonight  that  I  hope 
you'll  enjoy.     Hash!     Does  that  frighten  you?" 

"Not  your  hash,  Betty." 

"Well,  everything  is  ready." 

The  rainy  evening  menu  consisted  of : 

Browned  Hash  Creamed   Cauliflower 

Date    Muffins  Butter 

Apple  Sauce  Cake  Chocolate 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Browned  Hash  (Two  portions) 

I  C-chopped  cold  cooked  beef  %  t-pepper 
I  C-cold  boiled  potatoes  diced        i  T-milk 

a  few  drops  of  onion  juice        i  T-fat    (lard,    butter    or   one- 
2/3  t-salt  half  of  each) 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  55 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly.  Spread  the  mixture 
evenly  in  a  hot  frying-pan  in  which  the  fat  has  been  placed. 
Cook  without  stirring  until  a  crust  is  formed  on  the  bottom; 
fold  over  like  an  omelet  and  place  on  a  hot  platter. 

Creamed  Cauliflower  (Two  portions) 

i  head  cauliflower  I  t-salt 

4  C-water  I  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Separate  cauliflower  into  sections,  wash  well  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  (About  half  an  hour.)  Drain 
and  cover  with  vegetable  white  sauce. 

Date  Muffins  (Ten  muffins) 

54  C-sugar  54  C-milk 

54  C-dates  cut  fine  i^  C-flour 

i  egg  4  t-baking   powder 

*4  t-salt  2  T-butter   (melted) 

Mix  the  sugar,  dates,  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt.  Add 
milk  in  which  one  egg  has  been  beaten.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Add  butter,  melted.  Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  half  full 
of  the  mixture,  and  place  in  the  oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake   (Ten  portions) 

Y*  t-powdered  cloves 
:  C-hot,  thick,  strained,  sweet- 
light  ened  apple  sauce 

I  C-mixed,  chopped  raisins,  nut 

meats  and  dates 
I  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Stir  well.  Add 
the  well-beaten  egg.  Mix  the  soda  and  apple-sauce,  and  add 
to  the  first  ingredients.  Alternately  with  the  flour  and  spices, 
add  the  vanilla  and  fruit.  Beat  for  two  minutes.  Turn  into 
a  square  pan,  and  sift  granulated  sugar  over  the  top.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  one-half  hour. 


y2  C-butter 

i  C-sugar 
i  egg,  beaten 
iYa  C-flour 
i  t-soda 

V/2  t-cinnamon 

CHAPTER    XV 
BUYING  A  REFRIGERATOR 

»*OOMETHING  in  refrigerators?"  said  the  clerk  politely 

^  to  Mrs.  Dixon  and  Bettina. 

"You  talk  to  him,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon.  "I  don't  know  a  thing 
about  a  refrigerator ;  that's  why  I  begged  you  to  come." 

"Well,"  considered  Bettina,  her  red  brown  head  on  one 
side,  "we  want  one  that  will  hold  not  less  than  a  hundred 
pounds  of  ice.  The  large  ones  are  much  more  economical  in 
the  long  run.  Here,  Mrs.  Dixon,  is  a  hundred-pound  fellow. 
May  we  examine  it,  please?" 

"Certainly,  madam." 

"No,  this  won't  do.  See,  Mrs.  Dixon,  the  trap  is  in  the 
bottom  of  the  food  chamber.  That  is  wasteful  and  incon- 
venient, because  in  cleaning  it  you  would  have  to  leave  the 
door  of  the  larger  compartment  open.  That  would  let  the 
cold  air  out  and  waste  the  ice.  Anyhow,  you  know  the  trap 
is  the  sewer  of  the  refrigerator,  and  has  no  business  in  the  food 
chamber.  The  trap  really  ought  to  be  in  the  bottom  of  the  ice 
chamber,  where  it  can  be  cleaned  without  removing  the  food, 
or  opening  the  door  of  the  food  compartment.  Besides,  I 
prefer  to  have  the  ice  put  in  at  a  door  on  the  side  of  the  front, 
not  on  the  top.  Yes,  here  is  the  kind  I  mean.  I  like  this  trap, 
too.  See,  Mrs.  Dixon,  isn't  it  fine?  It  has  a  white  enamel 
lining  and  shelves  of  open  wire  that  can  be  removed." 

"It  looks  nice,  doesn't  it?  And  when  I  get  some  white  shelf 
paper  on  those  shelves  it  will  be  like  an  attractive  cupboard." 

"Oh,  my  dear !  You  mustn't  do  that !  That  would  prevent 
the  circulation  of  air  through  the  ice-box,  which  is  the  very 


56 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  57 

thing  that  makes  the  food  compartment  cold.  You  see,  that 
circulation  of  air  goes  on  through  these  open-wire  shelves. 
Another  thing,  I've  seen  people  cover  the  ice  with  news- 
papers to  keep  it  from  melting,  as  they  thought.  But  they 
were  mistaken.  Any  friction  causes  warmth,  and  ice  keeps 
better  when  there  is  nothing  touching  it." 

"Well,  if  you  like  this  one,  I'll  ask  the  price  of  it." 

"It  will  be  expensive,  I'm  afraid,  but  the  most  economical  in 
the  long  run.     Are  you  staying  downtown  to  meet  Mr.  Dixon  ?" 

"Yes,  I'd  like  him  to  see  the  refrigerator.  He  takes  such  an 
interest  in  these  household  things  I'm  getting." 

"Well,  good-bye,  dear.  I  must  hurry  home  to  get  dinner. 
It  won't  take  long,  but  I'll  have  to  go,  or  Bob  will  get  there 
first,  and  I'm  a  little  sentimental  about  being  there  to  greet 
him  at  the  door." 

Bettina's  dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops 

Boiled  New  Potatoes  New  Peas  in  Cream 

Vegetable  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Rhubarb  Pudding 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops   (Three  portions) 
3  chops  i  t-salt 

Wipe  chops  and  place  in  a  red-hot  frying-pan.  As  soon  as 
the  under  surface  is  seared,  turn  and  sear  the  other  side.  Turn 
down  the  fire  a  little,  and  continue  to  cook,  turning  chops 
often.  Cook  seven  minutes  if  liked  rare.  When  cooked, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  spread  with  butter. 

Creamed   New  Peas    (Three  portions) 

I  qt.  peas  */&  t-soda 

l/2  t-salt 

Shell  one  quart  of  peas,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand 
ten  minutes,  wash  well,  and  drain  off  the  water.  Cover  with 
boiled  water  and  cook  twenty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to  age 


58     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

of  peas.  A  pinch  of  soda  may  be  added  to  the  water.  It  soft- 
ens the  skins  on  the  peas.  Add  salt  when  the  peas  have  cooked 
twenty  minutes. 

White  Sauce  for  Peas  (Three  portions) 

I  T-butter  %  t-salt 

I  T-flour  y2  C-milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  mixing  well,  and  the 
milk,  stirring  constantly.     Cook  two  minutes.     Add  the  peas. 

Rhubarb  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

1  C-cooked,    sweetened   rhubarb       I  T-cold  water 

sauce  I  egg-white 

2  T-flour  }i  t-salt 

Add  the  water  slowly  to  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
rhubarb  sauce  and  cook  until  very  thick  (about  five  minutes). 
Add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg,  mix  thoroughly  and  turn 
into  moistened  moulds.    Serve  cold  with  cream. 


CHAPTER    XVI 

POLLY  AND  THE  CHILDREN 

f*TT7"ILL  you  look  at  the  way  that  child  eats  her  cereal!" 
▼  »  ejaculated  Polly  at  the  breakfast  table.  "And  I 
simply  can't  get  her  to  eat  it  at  home !  In  fact,  on  warm  days 
like  this,  she  won't  eat  any  breakfast  at  all." 

"I  like  Aunt  Betty's  cereal;  it  looks  so  pretty,"  explained 
little  Dorothy  gravely,  looking  down  at  her  plate  of  moulded 
cereal  surrounded  by  plump  red  raspberries. 

"I  hope  you  don't  mind  my  serving  it  cold  today,"  said 
Bettina.  "It  seemed  so  warm  yesterday  that  I  cooked  the 
cereal  and  put  it  in  moulds  in  the  refrigerator." 

"No  indeed !  The  change  is  a  regular  treat  for  the  children. 
They  like  fixed-up  things  like  this,  and  it  certainly  does  give 
anyone  an  appetite." 

"Well,  in  hot  weather,  no  one  feels  much  like  eating,  any- 
how, so  I  try  to  make  things  as  attractive  as  I  can.  And  I 
want  the  children  to  have  just  what  they  like.  .  .  .  You 
needn't  be  afraid  of  this  cream,  Polly.  We  buy  it  from  a 
neighbor,  and  I  am  absolutely  sure  that  it  is  both  clean  and 
good.  I'm  ashamed  to  say  that  we  have  no  certified  milk  in 
thi.  town.  Isn't  that  dreadful?  And  people  keep  on  buying  it 
of  dairies  that  they  don't  know  one  thing  about !  Why,  I've 
seen  women  who  had  just  moved  to  town,  and  who  knew  noth- 
ing about  conditions  here,  begin  housekeeping  by  cleaning  house 
thoroughly  from  top  to  bottom,  and  at  the  same  time,  leave 
an  order  for  milk  with  the  first  dairy  wagon  that  happened  to 
drive  down  their  street!  And  they  buy  groceries  and  meat 
from  the  nearest  stores  without  knowing  that  three  blocks 


59 


60       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

away  there  may  be  other  stores  that  are  better,  cleaner  and  less 
expensive.  Shouldn't  you  think  that  women  would  insist  upon 
knowing  all  about  the  food  they  are  giving  their  children?  It 
seems  to  me  that  much  common  sense  in  a  housewife  is  a  great 
deal  more  important  even  than  knowing  how  to  cook  and  sew." 

"I  think  that  knowing  how  to  plan  and  buy  is  more  import- 
ant than  knowing  how  to  do  things  with  your  hands,"  said 
Polly.  "After  all,  it's  the  result  that  counts.  You're  a  won- 
der, Bettina,  because  you  have  a  useful  head  and  useful  hands, 
too,  but  I  haven't.  So  I  try  to  know  as  much  as  possible  about 
every  article  of  food  and  clothing  that  I  buy,  and  to  be  sure 
that  I  am  getting  the  very  best  value  from  Tom's  money,  but  I 
don't  know  how  to  cook  or  sew  or  trim  hats  or  embroider.  I 
like  friends  and  babies  and  outdoor  exercise,  but  I'll  confess 
that  I  don't  like  housework." 

"Well,  Tom  and  the  children  seem  to  be  perfectly  contented 
and  happy,  and  so  do  you.  Therefore,  you  are  a  successful 
housekeeper." 

"You  are  the  right  kind  of  a  sister-in-law  to  have,  Betty !  I 
quite  approve  of  Bob's  choice !" 

The  breakfast  that  morning  consisted  of : 

Moulded  Cream  of  Wheat 

Raspberries 

Sugar  Cream 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Wheat  Cereal  (Three  portions) 

I  C-wheat         2  T-cold  water 
1/3  C-raspberries 

Cook  the  wheat  according  to  the  instructions  on  the  pack- 
age, only  cook  twice  as  long  as  the  directions  suggest.  Mix 
cereal  and  cold  water.  Add  boiling  water  slowly.  This  method 
prevents  lumping.  Wet  individual  moulds  with  cold  water, 
place  raspberries  around  the  inside  of  the  mould  and  fill  with 
the  wheat.     Allow  to  remain  in  mould  for  fifteen  minutes. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  61 

Remove  from  mould,  surround  with  more  berries  and  serve. 
If  desired  cold,  chill  in  the  refrigerator.  Cereals  may  be 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler  or  a  fireless  cooker. 

Method  of  Cooking  Cereals 

Put  the  water  and  salt  in  the  upper  part  of  double  boiler 
and  place  directly  over  the  flame.  When  the  water  boils,  add 
the  cereal  very  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  for  five  min- 
utes directly  over  the  fire.  Place  the  upper  part  in  the  lower 
part  of  the  double  boiler  containing  boiling  water,  and  cook 
the  required  time.    All  cereals  must  be  thoroughly  cooked. 


AUGUST. 

Twenty  little  jelly -glasses,  twenty  pots  of  jam, 

Twenty  jars  of  pickles  and  preserves, 

Making   other   wealth    than  this    avvear   a   stupid 
snam, 

Ah,  you  dears!    What  color,  gleam  and  curves! 


CHAPTER    XVII 
BETTINA  PUTS  UP  FRUIT 


*«TTONK!  Honk !"  sounded 
*1  an  auto  horn  at  Bet- 
tina's  door  one  cool  morning,  as 
a  crowd  of  lively  voices  also 
summoned  her. 

"Bettina,  O,  Bettina!  We've 
come  to  get  you  to  play  tennis 
with  us  this  morning.  You 
must!  You've  been  neglecting 
us  for  Bob  and  we're  jealous." 
"Oh,  girls,  I  simply  can't!  I 
have  just  bought  quarts  and  quarts  of  cherries  and  currants 
of  a  boy  who  came  to  the  door,  and  I  must  take  today  to  put 
them  up !" 

"That's  easy !  Leave  'em  till  tomorrow !"  said  Alice  cheer- 
fully. 

"I  can't  do  that,  because  they're  just  at  the  canning  point 
and  it  isn't  a  good  thing  to  have  them  a  bit  over-ripe.  Then 
these  are  freshly  picked,  and  that  is  the  best  way  to  have 
them." 

"I'll  stay  and  help;  may  I?"  said  Ruth,  who  had  suddenly 
developed  a  deep  interest  in  things  domestic. 

"Why,  of  course  I'd  love  to  have  you,  Ruth,  but  seeding 
cherries  is  slow  work,  and  I  believe  that  playing  tennis  would 
be  more  exciting." 

"But  not  half  so  interesting  as  to  hear  you  tell  me  how  you 
do  things.    I  love  to  listen." 


63 


04       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We'll  all  stay,"  suggested  Mary.  "It'll  do  us  good.  But 
you'll  have  to  lend  us  big  aprons ;  can  you  ?"  And  she  looked 
down  at  her  white  middy,  skirt,  and  shoes. 

"Come  on !"  shouted  Elsie.  "You  can  lecture  as  we  seed 
cherries,  Bettina.    How  are  you  going  to  put  them  up  ?" 

"Well,  Bob  likes  plain  currant  jelly,  and  plain  canned  cher- 
ries awfully  well.  I  may  preserve  some  cherries  with  currant 
juice,  too,  but  I  think  I'll  not  do  anything  very  elaborate 
today." 

"Goodness,  that  sounds  elaborate  enough  to  suit  me !  Will 
you  be  looking  over  the  currants  while  we  are  stoning  cher- 
ries?" 

"Leave  the  stones  in  half  of  them,  girls;  many  people  like 
them  that  way  better." 

"What  were  you  doing  to  all  those  jars?" 

"Just  getting  ready  to  sterilize  them.  You  see  I'll  put 
them  on  a  folded  cloth,  in  this  big  kettle  of  cold  water.  Then 
I'll  slowly  heat  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  and  fill  the  jars 
immediately  with  the  fruit  and  syrup.  I  must  scald  the  rub- 
ber rings,  too,  before  I  use  them." 

Bettina  was  rapidly  looking  over  currants  as  she  talked. 
"Girls,  do  you  notice  my  jelly  strainer?  See,  it's  a  piece  of 
cheese-cloth  fastened  into  a  wire  strainer.  It  can  be  attached 
to  any  kettle.  I  haven't  used  it  yet,  but  I  know  that  it  will  be 
very  convenient.  You  know  it's  best  to  strain  the  juice  through 
the  cheese-cloth  without  pressure.  If  I  have  the  cloth  double, 
the  juice  will  be  quite  clear.  If  I  wanted  an  especially  clear 
jelly,  I  could  even  have  the  juice  pass  through  a  flannel  or 
felt  bag." 

"How  on  earth  can  you  tell  when  the  jelly  jells?"  asked 
Ruth. 

"Well,  I  test  it  this  way.  I  take  up,  in  a  cold  silver  spoon, 
a  little  of  the  mixture  that  is  cooking.  If  it  jells  and  breaks 
from  the  spoon,  it  has  been  cooking  long  enough.  Of  course  I 
remove  the  rest  from  the  fire  while  testing  it,  because  it  might 
be  done." 

"Bettina,  cooking  and  jelly-making  and  things  like  that  seem 
to  be  so  natural  for  you !"  cried  Ruth.     "I  get  so  frightened 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  65 

sometimes  when  I  think  what  if  I  should  be  a  poor  house- 
keeper and  make  Fred  unhappy !" 

"Alice,"  said  Mary,  "Heaven  forbid  that  either  of  us  should 
ever  be  talking  like  that  about  a  man !" 

"Goodness,  I  should  say  so !"  declared  Alice  emphatically,  a 
little  too  emphatically,  thought  Bettina. 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Currant  Jelly 

2  qts.   currants  sugar 

Pick  over  currants,  but  do  not  remove  the  stems.  Wash 
and  drain.  Mash  a  few  with  a  vegetable  masher  in  the  bottom 
of  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite  kettle.  Add  more  currants  and 
mash.  Continue  adding  currants  until  all  are  used.  Bring 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  let  simmer  without  stirring  until  the  cur- 
rants appear  white.  Strain  through  a  coarse  strainer,  and 
allow  juice  to  drain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Measure  the  juice, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Gradually  add  an  equal  amount  of  heated 
sugar,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning,  and  continue 
boiling  until  the  test  shows  that  the  mixture  has  jelled.  When 
filling  sterilized  glasses,  place  them  in  a  pan  containing  a  little 
boiling  water.  This  keeps  the  glasses  from  breaking  when 
hot  jelly  is  poured  in.  Fill  and  set  the  glasses  of  jelly  aside  to 
cool.     Cover  with  hot  melted  paraffin. 

Canned  Cherries 

6  qts.  cherries  iJ/2  qts.  sugar 

y2  pt.  water 

Measure  the  cherries  after  the  stems  have  been  removed. 
Stone  if  desired.  If  they  are  stoned,  be  sure  to  save  the  juice. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  kettle  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the  cherries  and  heat  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point.  Boil  ten  minutes  skimming  carefully.  Put 
into  sterilized  jars,  filling  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  the 
syrup.  Seal  securely.  (When  filling  the  jars  stand  them  in 
a  pan  containing  boiling  water.  This  keeps  them  from  break- 
ing.) 


66       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina's  Jelly-Making  Suggestions 

I.  Use  a  porcelain-lined  or  a  granite  kettle, 

z.  Let  juice  drip  from  a  cheese  cloth  or  flannel  bag. 

3.  Measure  equal  quantities  juice  and  sugar. 

4.  Boil  juice  ten  minutes,  add  heated  sugar.     (Heated  by  being 

placed  in  warm  oven.) 

5.  Boil  until  it  drops  thick  from  a  cold  silver  spoon,  or  jells  on  a 

plate. 

6.  The  smaller  the  quantity  of  jelly  made  at  a  time,  the  clearer 

it  is. 

7.  Cook  no  more  than  three  cups  of  jwice  at  a  time. 

8.  Skim  carefully. 

9.  Boil  regularly. 

10.  Pour  in  sterilized  glasses. 

11.  Let  stand  in  bright  sun  twenty-four  hours. 

12.  Cover  with  very  hot  paraffin.    This  kills  any  bacteria  that  may 

have  collected. 

13.  Keep  jelly  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

A  COOL  SUMMER  DAY 

*  *  TTTHY,  hello,  Ruth !"  cried  Bettina  at  the  door  one  after- 
▼  V  noon.  "I  haven't  seen  you  for  weeks,  it  seems  to  me ! 
What  have  you  been  doing  ?  Come  in  and  give  an  account  of 
yourself  I" 

"First  let  me  deliver  these  nasturtiums  that  mother  sent," 
said  Ruth.  "She  always  remembers  how  fond  you  are  of 
flowers." 

"Thank  you,  they're  lovely !  I  need  them  tonight  for  my 
table,  too.  Will  you  come  into  the  kitchen  with  me  while  I 
put  these  in  water  ?" 

"M-m,"  said  Ruth.    "Something  smells  good !    In  the  oven  ?" 

"Yes,  pork  chops,  baked  apples  and  escalloped  potatoes. 
Peek  in  and  see  'em." 

"Outch !"  cried  Ruth,  holding  her  hand  in  sudden  pain.  "I 
forgot  that  that  pan  was  hot,  and  started  to  pull  it  out  to  see 
better !  I'm  a  perfect  idiot !  I  do  that  every  time  I  have  any- 
thing in  the  oven !" 

"That's  a  shame,  Ruth,  dear!  Here,  apply  a  little  of  this 
olive  oil!  It's  the  nearest  remedy  I  have.  Vaseline  is  good, 
too,  or  baking  soda.  Hold  it  with  the  damp  cloth  to  keep  out 
the  air." 

"It  feels  better  already,"  said  Ruth.  "I  made  some  ginger- 
bread last  evening  for  dinner — Fred  was  there — and  burned 
my  hand  in  the  same  way  exactly.  And  even  at  such  a  cost 
the  gingerbread  wasn't  very  good.  I  think  I  didn't  bake  it  quite 
long  enough.     How  long  ought  it  to  be  in  the  oven  ?" 

"Well,  gingerbread  takes  longer  than   most  quick-breads. 


67 


68       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Here,  let  me  give  you  my  time-guide  for  baking,  and  you  can 
keep  it  in  your  card-index.  Then  it's  always  at  hand  when 
you  want  to  refer  to  it." 

"Thank  you,  that's  a  good  idea,  Bettina.  May  I  sit  down 
here  at  the  kitchen  table  and  copy  it?" 

"Do,  I'll  get  you  a  pencil  and  a  piece  of  paper.  Ruth,  won't 
you  stay  to  dinner  tonight?" 

"I  can't  possibly,  Bettina.  I  am  going  out  with  mother,  and 
should  be  at  home  now  dressing.  Oh,  by  the  way,  I  had  a 
chance  to  refer  last  night  to  something  you  made  me  copy  and 
put  with  my  recipe  cards.  'How  to  Remove  Grass  Stains' !  I 
got  it  on  my  white  dress — a  dreadful  looking  stain — and  im- 
mediately referred  to  my  card-index.  It  said,  'Moisten  with 
alcohol  or  camphor,  allow  to  stand  five  minutes,  and  wash  out 
with  clear  water.'  The  stain  came  out  like  magic  !  I  used  cam- 
phor ;  we  didn't  happen  to  have  any  alcohol  in  the  house." 

"I'm  so  glad  it  came  out ;  that  is  such  a  pretty  white  dress. 
And  weren't  you  glad  you  knew  just  where  to  find  a  remedy? 
It  seems  a  little  trouble  to  index  things,  but  it  is  really  worth 
doing." 

"I  think  so,  too.  Well,  there's  Bob,  and  I  must  rush  off. 
Bob,  you're  going  to  have  a  good  dinner  tonight!  I've  just 
been  investigating!" 

Bob  had : 

Pork   Chops  Escalloped   Potatoes 

Baked  Apples 

Bread  Butter 

Fresh  Pears 

Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Apples 

4  apples  l/2   C-water 

8  T-sugar  l/2  t-cinnamon 

2  T-butter 

Select  apples  of  uniform  size.  Wash  and  core.  Place  in  a 
pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  water.    Fill  each  cavity  witn  s'lgar, 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  69 

a  dash  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  a  tiny  lump  of  butter.  Bake 
for  thirty  minutes,  basting  occasionally.  Serve  around  the 
platter  of  pork  chops. 

Bettina's  Time-Guide  for  Baking  Quick  Breads 

Pop-overs — Thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Baking-powder  biscuits — Ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Corn  bread — Twenty-five  to  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Muffins — Twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gingerbread — Thirty  to  forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


CHAPTER  XIX 

BOB  AND  BETTINA  ALONE 

ffTITHY,  Bob,  look  at  the  front  of  your  Palm  Beach  suit!" 
*  *  exclaimed  Bettina,  after  she  had  greeted  Bob  at  the 
door.    "What  in  the  world  have  you  been  doing  ?" 

"Pretty  bad ;  isn't  it !"  said  he,  ruefully.  "Frank  Dixon 
brought  me  home  in  his  car,  and  he  had  some  sort  of  engine 
trouble.  We  worked  on  it  for  awhile,  but  couldn't  fix  it,  so  he 
phoned  the  garage  and  I  came  home  on  the  street  car.  I  must 
have  rubbed  up  against  some  grease.  Do  you  suppose  my 
clothes  are  spoiled  ?" 

"No-o,"  said  Bettina,  slowly,  "not  if  I  get  at  them.  Let  me 
see ;  what  is  it  that  takes  out  auto  grease  ?  Oh,  I  know !  Bob, 
you  go  and  change  your  clothes  right  away  while  I'm  cooking 
the  meat  for  dinner.     Then  I'll  doctor  these." 

"What  will  you  do  to  them?" 

"I'll  rub  them  with  lard,  and  let  it  stay  on  them  for  about 
an  hour.  Then  after  dinner  I'll  wash  them  out  in  warm  water 
and  soap,  and  then — well,  Bob,  I  believe  they'll  be  all  as  good 
as  new." 

"I  thank  you,  Mrs.  Bettina." 

When  Bob  returned  and  Bettina  was  putting  the  dinner  on 
the  table,  she  smiled  to  herself  over  a  new  idea  that  had  popped 
into  her  head. 

"Bob,  what  would  you  think  if  I  should  enter  some  of  my 
nut-bread  at  the  state  fair  ?" 

"Well,  is  that  what  you've  been  smiling  at  all  this  time?  I 
think  it  would  be  fine.    If  I  were  judge  you'd  get  first  prize  in 


70 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes 

a  minute  !    Say,  strikes  me  this  is  a  pretty  good  dinner  I" 
It  consisted  of : 

Ham  Mashed    Potatoes 

Escalloped  Onions 

Rolls  Butter 

Dutch    Apple    Cake  Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Ham  (Three  portions) 

2/3  lb.   ham     2  T-water 

sVipe  a  slice  of  ham  (one-third  of  an  inch  thick)  and  remove 
aie  rind.  Place  in  a  hot  frying-pan.  Add  the  water.  Cook 
until  brown  on  both  sides  (about  fifteen  minutes). 

Escalloped  Onions   (Two  portions) 

I  C-cooked    onions  3  T-fresh  bread  crumbs 

y2  C-vegetable  white  sauce         2  T-butter 

Mix  the  onions  with  the  white  sauce  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  fresh  bread 
crumbs.  Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  top  of  the  onions. 
Brown  the  mixture  in  the  oven  (about  fifteen  minutes). 

Dutch  Apple  Cake  (Two  portions) 

1  C-floui  1  egg  well  beaten 

Ya  t-salt  1/3  C-milk 

2  t-baking  powder  1  sour  apple 

1  T-butter  2  T-sugar 
y2  t-cinnamon 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Cut  in  the  butter.  Add 
the  milk  and  egg.  Mix  well.  Spread  one-half  an  inch  thick 
in  a  shallow  pan.  Pare  and  cut  the  apples  in  lengthwise  sec- 
tions. Lay  in  rows  in  the  dough  with  the  sharp  edges  pressed 
lightly  into  the  dough.  Mix  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
sprinkle  over  the  top.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


72       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Lemon  Sauce  (Two  portions) 

y2  C-sugar  I  C-water 

J/s  t-salt  i  t-butter 

I  t-flour  2  T-lemon  juice 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour  well.  Add  the  water  slowly. 
Cook  seven  minutes.  Add  the  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Serve 
hot. 


CHAPTER   XX 

BETTINA  ATTENDS  A  MORNING  WEDDING 

fSTTOW  lovely !"  Bettina  whispered  to  Bob  after  the  beau- 
<■■  =*-  tiful  ceremony  had  taken  place  in  the  rustic  grape 
arbor.  "How  like  Cousin  Kate  this  is !  But  I  had  no  idea  that 
Frances  planned  to  be  married  out  of  doors,  had  you?" 

"She  told  me  that  they  were  hoping  for  fair  weather,  but 
weren't  counting  on  it." 

"And  this  is  a  regular  golden  day ;  isn't  it !  What  a  time  to 
remember !  Bob,  look  at  Cousin  Kate's  flowers !  A  natural 
altar,  without  decoration !  Poppies,  sweet-peas,  nasturtiums, 
cosmos,  more  kinds  than  I  can  count !  It's  a  little  earlier  than 
they  usually  have  weddings,  too;  isn't  nine-thirty  early?" 

"Yes,  but  Frances  thought  that  this  would  be  the  prettiest 
time  for  it,  and  you  know  they  aren't  at  all  conventional." 

"What  are  you  two  gossiping  about?"  shouted  big  Cousin 
Charles  in  Bettina's  ear :  "don't  you  see  enough  of  each  other 
at  home  without  avoiding  the  rest  of  us  at  a  time  like  this? 
Go  and  kiss  the  bride  and  congratulate  the  groom  as  soon  as 
you  can  get  to  them.  Fanny  wants  to  see  you  particularly,  Bet- 
tina. Breakfast  is  to  be  served  on  the  porch;  don't  forget  that 
you  two  are  to  be  at  the  bride's  table !" 

The  wide  porch  looked  very  charming.  Each  table  seated 
four,  except  the  one  for  the  bridal  party  and  near  relatives, 
which  was  in  the  center,  surrounded  by  the  others.  On  each 
table  was  a  basket  of  pink  sweet-peas  and  trailing  greenery. 
Each  simple  white  place-card  held  a  flower  or  two,  slipped 
through  two  parallel  cuts  across  the  corner.  Frances  was 
seated  at  the  groom's  left,  and  at  her  left  sat  her  new  brother- 


73 


74       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

in-law,  who  was  the  best  man.  Next  to  him  was  the  minister's 
wife,  then  jolly  Cousin  Charles,  the  bride's  father,  then  the 
groom's  mother.  At  the  right  of  the  groom  sat  Anne,  Fanny's 
sister,  who  was  maid-of-honor ;  and  next  to  her  sat  the  clergy- 
man. Then  came  the  bride's  mother  and  the  groom's  father. 
Beyond  him  sat  Bettina,  then  Bettina's  cousin  Harry,  then  Aunt 
Nell  and  Bob.  That  was  all,  for  there  were  few  near  relatives 
and  Bettina's  father  and  mother  were  in  California. 

"Frances  looks  well;  doesn't  she?"  said  Aunt  Nell  to  Bet- 
tina. "No  showers,  no  parties  or  excitement,  and  you  can  see 
how  simple  the  wedding  has  been.  Cousin  Kate  is  so  sensible, 
and  so  is  Frances.  I  can  tell  you  already  that  the  breakfast 
menu  will  be  dainty  and  delicious,  but  simple." 

She  was  right,  for  it  consisted  of : 

Watermelon   Cubes 

(Served  in  Sherbet  Glasses) 

Fried    Spring   Chicken  New    Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Hot  Rolls  Butter 

Currant  Jelly  Peach   Ice   Cream 

Bride's   Cake  Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Fried  Chicken 

1  2^2-lb.   chicken  ]/2  t-paprika 

4  T-flour  4  T-fat  (lard  and  butter) 

2  t-salt  2  T-water 

To  Prepare  the  Chicken  for  Serving  and  Cooking 

Cut  the  legs  from  the  body,  break  the  joint  at  the  thigh  and 
cut  in  two.  Cut  of!  the  neck  and  wings.  Break  the  breastbone 
and  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Break  the  back  in  two  pieces  length- 
wise, if  desired.  Plunge  the  pieces  into  cold  water  and  allow 
to  drain.  Sprinkle  each  piece  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  roll 
in  flour.  Place  the  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  When  very  hot  add 
the  chicken.  Allow  all  the  pieces  to  brown  thoroughly ;  cover 
the  pan  with  a  lid  and  add  the  water,  lower  the  fire  and  cook 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  76 

over  a  moderate  fire  for  thirty  minutes.    Turn  frequently  to 
prevent  scorching. 

Gravy  (Six  portions) 

3  T-fat  from  frying-pan  I  t-salt 

i  T-butter  y±  t-paprika 

6  T-flour  \y2  C-milk 

I  t-parsley  chopped 

Loosen  the  pieces  of  chicken  which  have  stuck  to  the  frying- 
pan,  add  the  butter,  stir  constantly  until  the  butter  "bubbles," 
add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  milk 
slowly,  cook  for  two  minutes,  add  the  chopped  parsley  and 
pour  the  gravy  into  a  gravy  bowl  for  serving. 

Bride's  Cake  (Thirty  pieces) 

I V2  C-sugar  3  t-baking  powder 

y2  C-butter  %  t-cream   of  tartar 

2T/2  C-flour  l/2  t»almond  extract 

%  t-salt  1  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-milk  4  egg-whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  creaming  the 
mixture.  Mix  and  sift  three  times  the  flour,  salt,  baking  pow- 
der and  cream  of  tartar.  Add  these  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Add  the  almond  and  vanilla 
extracts.  Beat  two  minutes.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  egg-whites 
which  have  been  stiffly  beaten.  Pour  the  cake  batter  into  a 
large,  round  loaf  cake  pan,  having  a  hole  in  the  center.  Bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  the  cake  is  re- 
moved from  the  oven,  allow  it  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  for 
five  minutes,  then  with  a  spatula  and  a  sharp  knife,  carefully 
loosen  the  cake  from  the  sides,  and  turn  out  onto  a  cake  cooler. 
When  cool,  cover  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Icing. 

Suggestions  for  Serving  the  Bride's  Cake 

The  Bride's  Cake  may  be  baked  in  this  form  and  placed  in 
the  center  of  the  table  for  the  central  decoration.  A  tall,  slen- 
der vase,  filled  with  the  flowers  used  in  decorating,  may  be 
placed  in  the  hole  in  the  cake.  Place  the  cake  upon  a  paste- 
board box  four  inches  high  and  one  inch  wider  than  the  cake. 


76       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

This  gives  space  to  decorate  around  the  cake.  The  cake  and 
box  may  be  placed  on  a  reflector,  which  gives  a  very  pretty  ef- 
fect. If  cake  boxes  containing  wedding  cakes  are  distributed 
among  the  guests  as  favors,  use  the  one  in  the  round  pan  for 
centra:  decoration  and  bake  others  in  square  pan.  Square 
pieces  may  then  be  cut,  wrapped  in  waxed  paper,  and  placed 
in  the  boxes. 


CHAPTER  XXI 
AFTER  THE  "TEA" 

*  f  T^\  OESN'T  it  bore  you  to  think  of  cooking  when  you've 

■"-^  been  out  all  afternoon?"  asked  Mrs.  Dixon,  wearily. 
"And  today  the  refreshments  were  so  elaborate  and  every- 
thing was  so  stiff  and  tiresome !" 

"I  usually  anticipate  feeling  this  way,"  said  Bettina,  "and 
plan  to  have  something  at  home  that  is  already  prepared,  and 
that  I  can  get  together  without  much  trouble.  Then  I  put  on 
a  house  dress  as  quickly  as  I  can,  for  I  can't  bear  to  cook  in 
party  clothes.  But  I'm  sure  I  don't  know  what  I  am  going  to 
have  for  dinner  tonight.  Bob  and  I  had  planned  to  go  down- 
town to  dinner  with  some  friends,  but  just  before  I  went  out 
this  afternoon  he  phoned  that  the  invitation  had  been  with- 
drawn because  of  somebody's  illness." 

"Goodness !"  cried  Mrs.  Dixon,  "what  will  you  do  ?  Go 
downtown  yourselves?" 

"No;  Bob  doesn't  enjoy  that,  and  neither  do  I.  I  can  man- 
age somehow,  for  of  course  there  are  always  things  in  the 
house  to  get.  I'll  tell  you.  I'll  phone  Bob  to  bring  Mr.  Dixon 
here,  and  you  can  see  what  an  emergency  supper  is  like." 

"Oh,  I  couldn't  think  of  it!  You're  tired,  and  it's  nearly 
six  now !" 

"Well,  what  of  that?  You  can  help.  And  I  know  you're 
dreading  to  get  dinner  at  home.    We'll  just  combine  forces." 

Bettina  went  to  the  telephone  and  called  Bob.  "Hello,  dear ! 
Please  bring  Mr.  Dixon  home  to  dinner  with  you;  Charlotte 
is  going  to  stay.    And  if  you  come  in  his  car,  will  you  stop  on 

77 


78       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

the  way  and  get  a  watermelon  that  has  been  on  ice?  Be  sure 
it's  cold  I" 

"And  now,"  she  said  to  Mrs.  Dixon,  "let  me  get  into  a  house- 
dress,  and  then  for  a  sight  of  the  refrigerator." 

"Oh,  what  beautiful  glazed  apples  I"  exclaimed  Mrs.  Dixon 
ten  minutes  later. 

"They  were  to  have  been  for  breakfast,  but  I'll  have  them 
for  dinner  instead.  Then  there  are  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes 
for  creamed  potatoes ;  and,  besides  that,  we'll  have  an  omelet. 
And  then  I'll  stir  up  some  emergency  biscuit " 

"And  you  can  explain  everything  that  you  do  !" 

"Well,  for  the  omelet — we'll  take  four  good-sized  eggs — one 
for  each  of  us " 

"What  else  goes  in?    Milk? 

"No,  I  think  that  hot  water  makes  a  more  tender  omelet. 
Then  I'll  use  a  few  grains  of  baking  powder  to  assist  in  holding 
it  up,  though  that  isn't  necessary.  We'll  beat  the  yolks  and 
whites  separately  till  they're  very  light.  Goodness!  There 
come  the  men !" 

"Here's  your  watermelon,  Bettina !"  called  Bob.  "A  big  fel- 
low !  Don't  forget  to  save  the  rind  for  pickles,  will  you  ?  Why, 
hello,  Mrs.  Dixon !    Frank's  here !" 

The  menu  that  night  consisted  of : 

Omelet  Creamed  Potatoes 

Glazed  Apples 

Emergency  Biscuit  Butter 

Watermelon 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Omelet   (Four  portions) 

4  eggs  Y%  t-pepper 

4  T-hot  water  I  T-butter 

l/2  t-salt  a   little   parsley 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  hot  water 
(one  tablespoonful  to  an  tgg),  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the 
whites  till  stiff  and  dry.  Cut  and  fold  into  the  first  mixture. 
Heat  the  omelet  pan,  add  the  butter,  turn  the  pan  so  that  the 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  79 

melted  butter  covers  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan.  Turn 
in  the  mixture,  spread  evenly,  turn  down  the  fire  and  allow 
the  omelet  to  cook  slowly.  Turn  the  pan  so  that  the  omelet 
will  brown  evenly.  When  well  puffed  and  delicately  browned 
underneath,  place  the  pan  on  the  center  shelf  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  finish  cooking  the  top  of  the  omelet.  Crease  across 
center  with  knife  and  fold  over  very  carefully.  Allow  to  re- 
main a  moment  in  pan.  Turn  gently  with  a  spatula  onto  a  hot 
platter.  Garnish  with  parsley.  An  omelet  is  sufficiently  cooked 
when  it  is  firm  to  the  touch  when  pressed  by  the  finger. 

Creamed  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

2  C-cold    diced    potatoes       r/2  t-salt 

I  T-chopped  parsley  %  t-paprika 

I  T-chopped  pimento  i  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Add  the  potatoes,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  to  vegetable 
white  sauce.  Add  pimento  and  parsley.  Cook  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly. 

Emergency  Biscuit 

2  C-flour  y2  t-salt 

4  t-baking  powder  3  T-fat  (lard  and  butter) 

7/8  C-milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  cut  in  the  fat.  Add  the  milk, 
mixing  with  a  knife.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan, 
placing  one  inch  apart.    Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Glazed  Apples  (Six  portions) 

6  apples  i]/2  C-water 

V/2  C-"C"   sugar  1  t-butter 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  six  minutes  in  a  deep  saucepan. 
Do  not  stir.  Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Place  them  in  the 
syrup  as  soon  as  pared,  to  prevent  them  from  discoloring. 
Cook  until  apples  are  tender.  Remove  the  apples  from  the 
syrup  and  boil  the  sugar  and  water  longer  if  it  is  not  thick 
enough.  Add  the  butter  to  the  syrup  and  pour  in  and  around 
the  apples.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Granulated  sugar  may  be  used, 
but  "C"  sugar  gives  a  better  flavor. 


CHAPTER  XXII 
BETTINA  GIVES  A  PORCH  BREAKFAST 

BETTINA  had  risen  early  that  beautiful  July  morning,  for 
she  had  much  to  do.  Bob  had  insisted  upon  helping  her, 
and  at  eight,  Ruth  was  coming. 

"Such  a  simple  breakfast  after  all,  Bob !  Do  you  think  she'll 
like  it?" 

"Sure  she  will!  If  she  doesn't  I'll  disown  her!  Say,  Bet- 
tina,  I  haven't  had  my  breakfast  yet,  and  ten  o'clock  sounds 
far  away.    May  I  have  just  one  doughnut  with  my  coffee  ?" 

"Why,  Bobby,  Bobby !  Did  I  forget  you?  Your  Aunt  Eliz- 
abeth and  the  whole  suffrage  cause  is  on  my  mind  this  morn- 
ing, but  I  didn't  think  even  that  could  make  me  forget  you. 
Help  yourself  to  anything  you  see  that  looks  good !" 

The  Aunt  Elizabeth  on  Bettina's  mind  was  an  aunt  of  Bob's 
who  was  to  be  in  town  between  nine  and  twelve,  in  conference 
with  some  of  the  leading  suffragists  of  the  city.  She  wished 
to  see  the  bungalow,  and  at  ten  o'clock  Bettina  was  giving  a 
breakfast  for  her  and  the  women  with  whom  she  was  to  con- 
fer. It  was  with  fear  and  trepidation  that  Bettina  had  invited 
them,  although  she  declared  to  herself  that  she  was  sure,  sure, 
sure,  of  every  dish  on  the  menu ! 

As  she  arranged  the  great  graceful  yellow  poppies  in  the 
center  of  the  porch  table,  set  for  six,  she  was  feeling  somewhat 
nervous. 

"Bob,  you  must  go  now,  or  you'll  be  too  late  for  the  train. 
Take  a  taxi  home,  not  a  street  car." 

"Taxi!  You  don't  know  my  Aunt  Elizabeth.  She'd  say, 
'Say,  young  man,  if  you  aren't  saving  your  money  any  better 


80 


With  Bettina  s  Best  Recipes  81 

than  this,  you  ought  to  be/  And  we'd  probably  end  by  walk- 
ing. 

"Hurry,  dear." 

The  train  proved  to  be  late,  and  Ruth  and  Bettina  were  ready 
to  the  last  detail.  While  beautiful,  distinguished-looking  Aunt 
Elizabeth  was  dressing,  Bettina  was  meeting  guests  at  the  door. 
Before  she  realized  it,  she  had  introduced  everybody  to  the 
guest  of  honor,  and  was  ushering  them  out  to  her  charming 
porch  table. 

"Oh,  Ruth,"  she  said  in  the  kitchen,  "isn't  my  Aunt  Eliza- 
beth lovely?  I'll  say  'mine'  now,  not  Bob's.  I  was  in  such 
a  hurry  that  I  forgot  to  be  frightened." 

The  breakfast  consisted  of : 


oulded   Cereal  on   Bananas 

Whipped   Cream 

Codfish   Balls 

Egg    Souffle 

Green   Peas 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins 

Jelly 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Codfish  Balls   (Four  portions) 

1  C-raw  salt  fish  I  egg,  well-beaten 

2  C-raw  potatoes  %  t-pepper 

i  t-butter  more  salt  if  needed 

l/z  C-cracker   crumbs  I  T-water 

Shred  the  fish.  Pare  and  quarter  potatoes.  Place  the  fish 
and  potatoes  in  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil 
twenty-five  minutes  or  till  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Do  not  boil 
too  long  or  they  will  become  soggy.  Drain  well,  mash  and 
beat  until  light.  Add  butter,  seasoning  and  egg.  Shape,  roll 
in  crumbs,  egg  mixed  with  water,  more  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  These  may  be  shaped  into  flat  cakes,  rolled  in 
flour  and  sauted  in  hot  fat.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Egg  Souffle"   (Four  portions) 

or   y4 


2  T-butter 

I  t-salt 

2  T-flour 

a    pinch    of    cayenne 

2  C-milk 

t-paprika 

4  eggs 

i  C-white   sauce 

2/3  C-cooked  peas 

82       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  gradually  add  the 
milk.  Cook  three  minutes,  add  seasoning  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks.  Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  and  turn  into  buttered 
moulds.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  firm  (about  twenty-five  minutes).  Serve  with  a  white 
sauce,  highly  seasoned,  to  which  has  been  added  one  cup  oi 
cooked  peas.     Pour  the  sauce  around  the  souffle. 

Potato  Doughnuts   (Three  dozen  doughnuts) 


I  C-mashed  potatoes,   hot 

Yz  C-sweet  milk 

Yz  C-sugar 
2  T-melted  butter 

2  eggs 

3  C-flour 

3  t-baking  powder 
H  t-salt 

%  t-grated  nutmeg 

Vz  t-powdered  cinnamon 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  add 
the  butter  and  the  milk.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  eggs  and 
sugar.  Add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  nutmeg  and  cinna- 
mon sifted  together.  Roll  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut 
with  a  doughnut  cutter,  and  fry  in  hot  deep  fat. 


CHAPTER  XXIII 
A   PIECE   OF   NEWS 

AS  Bettina  was  putting  the  finishing  touches  on  her  porch 
table,  set  for  dinner,  and  humming  a  little  song  as  she 
tried  the  effect  of  some  ragged  robins  in  a  mist  of  candy-tuft, 
all  in  a  brass  bowl,  she  heard  a  murmur  of  voices  at  her  front 
door. 

"Ill  tell  just  Betty ;  no  one  else  must  know — yet.  But  what 
if  I  haven't  the  courage  to  tell  even  her  ?" 

"Perhaps  she'll  suspect  anyhow !" 

"Goodness,  Harry !  You  make  me  afraid  to  go  in !  Is  my 
expression  different?" 

The  answer  was  not  audible  to  Bettina,  though  she  was  sure 
that  she  heard  whispers  and  a  little  suppressed  laughter.  Cer- 
tainly it  had  sounded  like  Alice's  voice !  What  ?  Could  Mr. 
Harrison  be  with  her  ?  For  a  moment  Bettina  stood  stock  still, 
feeling  like  an  eavesdropper.  Then  she  let  out  a  gasp  of  amaze- 
ment. "Well !"  was  all  she  said,  and  sat  down  to  think.  When 
the  door-bell  rang,  she  could  not  at  first  gain  the  composure 
necessary  to  answer  it. 

"Why,  how  are  you,  Alice?  I  haven't  seen  you  for  ages! 
And  Mr.  Harrison !  Do  come  in ;  you  must  stay  to  dinner,  for 
you're  just  in  time.     Bob  will  be  home  any  minute." 

"Oh,  we  couldn't  stay !"  answered  Alice.  "Har — Mr.  Har- 
rison and  I  were  walking  home  from  town,  and  when  we  came 
to  this  house,  we  couldn't  help  stopping  to  say  'hello.' " 

Bettina  was  conscious  of  a  strained  feeling  in  the  air,  which 
made  her  want  to  giggle — or  shake  Alice.  After  all,  she 
couldn't  help  overhearing!     And  yet  she  might  be  mistaken! 


83 


84       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

She  found  herself  saying — she  scarcely  knew  what — to  keep  up 
the  conversation.* 

"Do  stay !  We  have  a  funny  little  dinner  tonight,  but  I 
believe  you'll  like  it.  Bob  had  been  rather  over-worked  at  the 
oFiCe  lately — and  I  tried  today  to  think  of  some  of  his  favorite 
dishes  for  airmen  I  iwated  to  have  a  jolly  little  meal  to  take 
his  mind  off  his  worries.  And  it  would  help  a  lot  if  he  could 
see  you  two  people.  Do  stay!  Do  you  care  for  blueberry 
tarts,  Mr.  Harrison  ?    Well,  that's  to  be  our  dessert !" 

"My,  that  sounds  fine !"  said  Mr.  Harrison.  "Couldn't  we 
stay,  after  all?"  he  asked,  turning  to  Alice. 

"Well,  if  you  really,  truly  want  us,"  said  Alice  to  Bettina. 

"Why,  of  course  I  do!  I'm  delighted  to  see  you!  I  think 
we're  fortunate.  Mr.  Harrison,  you  are  usually  so  busy  that 
we  scarcely  dare  invite  you !" 

"I  suppose  I  ought  to  be  at  work  today,  but  I'm  taking  a 
little  holiday.     I  couldn't  put  my  mind  on  business." 

He  was  actually  blushing,  Bettina  thought.  Suddenly  she 
found  Alice's  arms  around  her  and  Alice's  laughing  face  hid- 
den on  her  shoulder.  "Don't,  Harry !  Let  me  be  the  one  to 
tell  her !" 

And  so  Bob  found  them,  all  laughing  and  talking  at  once. 

"Hurrah !"  said  he  when  he  heard  the  news.  "The  best  pos- 
sible idea!  Is  dinner  ready,  Bettina?  Get  out  some  grape 
juice  and  we'll  drink  to  the  health  and  future  happiness  of 
Alice  and  Harry !     I'm  the  man  that  made  this  match !" 

Dinner  that  night  consisted  of : 

Fish  a  La  Bettina  (Four  portions) 

Fish  a  la  Bettina  Rice   Cakes 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Rolls  Butter 

Iced  Grape  Juice  Blueberry  Tarts 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fish  a  la  Bettina   (Four  portions) 

I  C-medium    white   sauce       2  T-chopped  pimento 
l  1/3  C-cooked  fish  2  T-chopped    sweet    pickle 

y*  t-paprika 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  85 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  heat  and  serve  on  wafers. 

Rice  Cakes  (Four  portions) 

lY  C-boiled  rice  I  egg  yolk 

y2  t-salt  6  T-crumbs 

4  T-fat  (lard  and  butter  mixed) 

Mix  the  rice  and  salt  with  the  egg.  Shape  into  flat  cakes, 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  one-half  an  inch  thick. 
Roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  saute  in  hot  fat  until  brown  on  both 
sides.  (About  eight  minutes.)  If  the  egg  does  not  sufficiently 
moisten  the  rice,  add  one  tablespoon  of  milk. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  (Four  portions) 

4  tomatoes  Y  t-salt 

I  C-chopped  cabbage  Y  t-paprika 

4  T-salad  dressing 

Stuff  fresh  tomatoes  with  cabbage,  seasoned,  and  mixed  with 
salad  dressing.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
place  one  tablespoon  salad  dressing  on  the  top.  Add  a  small 
piece  of  green  pepper  or  a  sprig  of  parsley  to  the  salad 
dressing. 

Blueberry  Tarts  (Four  portions) 

Fill  muffin  pans  with  plain  pastry.  Place  two  tablespoons  of 
mixture  on  each  crust.  Cover  with  pastry  strips  and  bake 
twenty  minutes. 

Blueberry  Mixture 

Yz  C-blueberries      I  T-butter 
Y\  C-sugar  i  T-vinegar 

I  t-cinnamon 

Mix  the  berries,  sugar,  butter  cut  in  small  pieces,  vinegar 
and  cinnamon.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  over  a  moderate  fire 
for  three  minutes. 


CHAPTER    XXIV 

BETTINA  ENTERTAINS  HER  FATHER  AND 
MOTHER 

ffTT7*E  had  no  such  steak  as  this  in  California!"  declared 
»  »  Bettina's  father  with  satisfaction,  as  Bob  served  him 
a  second  helping. 

"But  then,"  said  Bettina's  mother,  "did  you  find  anything  in 
California  that  you  thought  equalled  anything  in  your  own 
state?  Father  never  does,"  said  she,  laughing.  "He  seems  to 
enjoy  traveling  because  it  makes  him  feel  that  his  own  home 
is  superior  to  every  other  place  on  earth.  And  it  is,"  she 
agreed,  looking  about  her  happily.  "I  can  say  that  after  a 
summer  spent  in  California,  I'm  more  than  thankful  to  be 
back  again." 

"I  was  afraid  that  you  and  father  would  be  so  anxious  to 
open  up  the  house  that  you  wouldn't  agree  to  come  here  for 
your  first  meal." 

"Of  course  we're  anxious  to  get  home,"  said  Mother,  "but 
after  you  wrote  Father  that  if  he  would  come  here  to  dinner 
tonight  you  would  have  a  steak  cooked  just  to  suit  him,  he  was 
as  eager  as  a  boy  to  get  here." 

"Well,  who  wouldn't  look  forward  to  it,  after  a  summer  spent 
in  hotels  ?"  said  Father.  "And  I  must  say  that  Bettina's  dinner 
justifies  my  eagerness.     It's  exactly  right — steak  and  all." 

"Now  for  dessert !"  said  Bob.  "This  coffee  that  I've  been 
making  in  the  percolator  is  all  ready,  Bettina !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had  ■ 

86 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  87 

Pan-broiled   Sirloin   Steak  Mashed   Potatoes 

Carrots 

Head  Lettuce  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Sliced  Bananas  Quick  Cake 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pan-Broiled  Steak   (Six  portions) 

2  lb.  sirloin  steak  an  inch  and  a  y2  t-salt 

half  thick  I  T-parsley 

I  T-butter  I  T-lemon  juice 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Have  a  tin  pan  sizzling 
hot.  Place  the  meat  in  the  pan  and  cook  directly  under  the 
broiling  flame.  Turn  frequently  with  spoons,  as  a  fork  will 
pierce  the  meat  and  allow  the  juices  to  escape.  A  steak  an 
inch  and  a  half  thick  should  be  cooked  from  eight  to  ten  min- 
utes. Place  the  steak  on  a  hot  platter.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
lemon  juice  and  parsley.     Dot  with  butter.     Serve  very  hot. 

Gravy  (Six  portions) 

2  T-drippings  from  the  steak     y2  C-water 
2  T-flour  y2  C-milk 

VA  t-salt 

Pour  the  drippings  from  the  steak  into  a  pan,  add  flour  and 
mix  well.  Allow  the  flour  to  brown,  add  water  and  milk  very 
slowly  to  the  flour  and  drippings.  Add  the  salt  and  allow  to 
cook  until  the  gravy  thickens.  If  there  are  not  two  tablespoons 
of  drippings,  add  sufficient  butter  to  equal  the  amount. 

Carrots  (Six  portions) 

6  medium-sized  carrots  y2  t-salt 

2  T-butter  */\  t-pepper 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  cut  into  two-thirds  inch  cubes 
and  cook  until  tender  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  (About 
fifteen  minutes.)  Drain,  add  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve.  Carrots  may  be  scraped  and 
steamed  whole  or  cooked  whole  in  boiling  water. 


88       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Quick  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 


i/3  C-butter 

I  2/3  C-flour 

ilA  C-brown  sugar 

3  t-baking  powder 

i  egg 

1  t-cinnamon 

y2  C-milk 

y2  t-nutmeg 

'4  >salt 

Q  4atss,  tzit  C_2S 

Cream  the  butter,  aaa  tne  sugar  and*  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg  and  .Hilk,  salt,  flour,  bakine  powder,  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
and  dates.  Beat  for  two  minutes.  Bake  in  a  well-buttered 
loaf  cake  pan  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

Icing 

1  egg  white  £4  C-powdereH  sugar 

2  T-cold  water  y2  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  tgg  white  until  very  stiff;  add  water  and  sugar 
gradually.  Beat  thoroughly  and  add  the  flavoring.  Beat  until 
it  will  stand  alone,  then  spread  on  cake.  More  sugar  may  be 
added  if  necessary. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing   (Six  portions) 

j4  C-olive  oil  lA  t-paprika 

juice  of  half  a  lemon  r  t-Worcestershire   sauce 

juice  of  half  an  orange  %  t-mustard 

I  t-onion  juice  1  T-chili  sauce 

%  t-salt  1  T-green  pepper  cut  fine 

1  t-chopped   parsley- 
Place  all  the  above  ingredients  in  a  pint  fruit  jar,  fit  a  rub- 
ber and  top  tightly  on  the  jar,  shake  vigorously  until  well 
mixed   and  creamy,  and  pour  over  head   lettuce,   tomatoes, 
asparagus,  peas,  beans  or  spinach.     Serve  as  a  salad. 


CHAPTER  XXV 
THE  BIG  SECRET 

ff/^OME  in,  Alice!     Now  do  say  that  you'll  stay  to  din- 

^^    ner,  for  we  can  talk  afterward." 

"Well,  if  you'll  take  me  out  into  the  kitchen  where  you  are 
working.  You  see,  I  have  all  this  to  learn,  and  I'm  depending 
on  you  to  help  me." 

"Of  course  I'll  help,  Alice,  but  you  are  so  clever  about  any- 
thing that  you  care  to  do  that  I  know  you'll  soon  outstrip  your 
teacher.     Tell  me  first,  does  anyone  know  the  Big  Secret  yet?" 

"Not  a  soul  but  Bettina,  Bob,  and  my  family.  That  is  what 
I  came  to  talk  about." 

"Oh,  Alice.  I'd  love  to  be  the  one  to  give  the  announcement 
luncheon,  or  the  breakfast,  or  whatever  you  prefer  to  have  it !" 

"Would  you  do  it,  really  ?  Bettina,  I've  been  longing  to  have 
you  offer,  but  it  is  work  and  trouble,  and  I  didn't  want  to 
suggest  it.'x 

"Why,  Alice,  I  just  enjoy  that  kind  of  work!  I'd  be  flat- 
tered to  be  allowed  to  have  it  here.  Of  course,  you  know  that 
I  can't  do  anything  very  elaborate  or  expensive,  but  I'm  sure 
that  between  us  we  can  think  up  just  the  prettiest,  cleverest 
way  of  telling  it  that  any  prospective  bride  ever  had !" 

"Bettina,  my  faith  is  in  you !" 

"When  do  you  plan  to  be  married  ?" 

"Late  in  October  or  early  in  November,  I  think.  And  I'd 
prefer  not  to  have  it  announced  for  a  month.  You  see,  I  don't 
want  to  allow  time  for  too  many  festivities  in  between." 


89 


90       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Oh,  Alice,  if  you  take  my  advice,  you  won't  have  any 
showers  or  parties  at  all.  I  know  you!  If  you  do  allow  it, 
you'll  have  more  excitement  than  any  bride  in  this  town !" 

"Well,  Harry  advises  me  not  to,  but  oh,  Betty,  you  know 
how  it  is !  I  know  so  many  people,  and  I  do  like  fun,  and 
then  Mother  likes  to  think  of  me  as  the  center  of  things.  She's 
afraid  that  when  I  am  married  to  Harry  I'll  become  as  quiet 
as  he  is,  and  then  too,  I  honestly  don't  think  she'd  feel  that  I 
was  really  married  without  it.  You  know  sister  Lillian  had 
lots  of  excitement  and  more  parties  crowded  into  a  day 
than " 

"Yes,  and  she  was  so  tired  that  she  nearly  fainted  when  she 
stood  up  to  be  married !" 

"That's  true,  but  she  liked  the  fun,  anyhow.  She  says  that 
a  girl  can  have  that  kind  of  fun  only  once,  and  she's  silly  to 
deny  herself.  Well,  I'll  have  a  whole  month  to  think  it  over 
in.  I've  been  sitting  here  all  this  time,  Bettina,  trying  to  de- 
cide what  it  is  that  you  are  making — those  croquettes,  I  mean." 

"They  are  potato  and  green  corn  croquettes,  and  Bob  is  very 
fond  of  them.  I  made  them  because  I  happened  to  have  some 
left-over  corn.  Until  I  learned  this  recipe,  I  didn't  know  what 
to  do  with  the  ears  of  cooked  green  corn  that  were  left." 

"And  what  is  the  meat  dish  ?" 

"Well,  that  is  made  of  left-overs,  too,  but  I  think  you'll  like 
it.  Creole  Lamb,  it  is  called.  It  is  made  of  a  little  cold  cooked 
lamb  that  was  left  from  last  night's  dinner.  The  rhubarb 
sauce  that  I  am  serving  with  the  dinner  was  our  dessert  last 
night.     But  I  do  have  a  very  good  new  dessert !" 

"New  or  not,  the  dinner  does  sound  good.  There  is  Bob, 
now,  and  I'm  so  glad,  for  I  confess  that  my  appetite  is  even 
larger  than  usual !" 

The  menu  that  night  was  as  follows: 


Creole  Lamb 

Potato  and  Green  Corn  Croquettes 

Rhubarb  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Head  Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Lemon  Pie  Cheese 


SEPTEMBER. 

Apple-tree,  apple-tree,  crowned  with  delight, 
Give  me  your  fruit  for  a  pie  if  you  will; 

Crusty  I'll  make  it,  and  juicy  and  light! 

Give  me  your  treasure  to  mate  with  my  skill! 


CHAPTER    XXVI 


RUTH  MAKES  AN  APPLE  PIE 


t*T'LL  tell  you,  Ruth,"  said 
■*■  Bettina,  in  answer  to  some 
questions,  "you  come  home  with 
me  now,  and  make  an  apple  pie 
for  our  dinner!  I'll  watch  and 
direct  you,  and  perhaps  I  can 
show  you  what  made  the  crust 
tough  on  the  one  you  made  at 
home.  Do  come.  I  can't  prom- 
ise you  an  elaborate  dinner  to- 
night, for  my  funds  are  very 
low  and  I  must  be  careful.  But  I  had  planned  to  make  an 
apple  pie  myself.  Bob  is  so  fond  of  it  that  no  matter  what  else 
we  may  have,  an  apple  pie  dinner  is  a  feast  to  him." 
"But  goodness,  Bettina  !  I  might  spoil  it !" 
"No,  you  wouldn't,  and  I  would  show  you  just  what  to  do. 
I  suspect  that  you  handled  the  dough  too  much  before  and 
that  was  what  made  the  pie  seem  tough." 

"I  suppose  I  did;  I  was  so  anxious  to  have  it  well  mixed." 

"Did  you  use  your  fingers  in  mixing  in  the  shortening?     I 

know  that  many  good  cooks  do  it,  but  it  is  really  better  to  use 

a  knife,  with  the  blade  flat.     And  then  roll  the  pastry  out  just 

as  lightly  as  possible." 

"Do  you  make  pastry  with  lard  or  butter?" 
"I  usually  make  it  with  an  equal  amount  of  each.     Lard 
makes  a  more  tender  crust  than  butter,  and  a  whiter  crust, 
but  I  think  butter  gives  it  a  better  flavor." 


93 


94       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina  and  Ruth  had  reached  home  by  this  time,  and  Bet- 
tina  brought  out  the  materials  for  Ruth's  pie.  "I'll  give  you 
ice-water  to  moisten  the  pastry,"  said  she;  "it  isn't  necessary, 
but  it  is  really  better  in  the  summer  time.  And  while  you're 
mixing  in  the  shortening  with  this  knife,  I'll  be  cooking  some 
eggs  hard  for  eggs  a  la  goldenrod  which  I  am  going  to  give 
you  tonight." 

"Eggs  a  la  goldenrod !"  exclaimed  Ruth,  "How  good  that 
does  sound !" 

"It  is  a  very  good  luncheon-dish,  but  I  find  it  also  good 
for  dinner  when  I'm  not  having  meat.  I  think  it  looks  appe- 
tizing, too." 

"I  must  learn  how  to  make  it.  You  know  Father  comes  home 
at  noon,  and  it  is  hard  to  think  of  a  variety  of  luncheon-dishes. 
I  usually  have  eggs  or  cheese  in  some  form  or  other,  but  'eggs 
a  la  goldenrod,'  are  new  to  me." 

"We  also  have  cottage-cheese  tonight,"  said  Bettina.  "I 
plan  to  make  it  about  once  a  week.  Ruth,  I  believe  I  hear  Bob 
now!  Well,  he'll  have  to  wait  half  an  hour  or  more  for  his 
dinner !" 

That  night  they  had  : 

Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod  Potato  Cakes 

Strained   Honey  Cottage  Cheese 

Bread  Butter 

Apple  Pie  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod  (Four  portions) 

3  hard-cooked   eggs   i]/2  C-milk 
3  T-butter  *^  t-salt 

3  T-flour  l/s  t-pepper 

Ys  t-parshy 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well. 
Add  the  milk  gradually.  Cook  until  a  white  sauce  consistency. 
Add  chopped  egg-whites.  Pour  this  mixture  over  slices  of 
toast  arranged  on  a  platter.  Force  the  yolks  through  a  strainer 
on  top  of  the  sauce  on  the  toast.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve  hot. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  95 

Potato  Cakes   (Four  portions) 

2  C-mashed  potatoes         I  T-lard 
i  T-butter 

Form  cold  seasoned  mashed  potato  into  cakes  two  inches 
in  diameter.  Pip  the  cakes  lightly  into  a  little  flour.  Allow 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  tablespoon  lard  to  get  very  hot 
in  a  frying-pan.  Put  in  the  cakes,  brown  on  each  side,  and 
serve. 

Cottage  Cheese  (Four  portions) 

I  qt.  sour  milk     %  t-paprika 
I  t-salt  i  T-cream 

Place  thick  freshly  soured  milk  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  not 
boiling.  When  the  milk  is  warm  and  the  curds  separate  from 
the  whey,  strain  off  the  whey  in  a  cheese  cloth.  Put  into  a 
bowl,  add  salt,  pepper  and  cream  to  taste.  Stir  lightly  with  a 
fork. 

Some  of  Bettina's  Pastry  Rules 

One — All  the  materials  must  be  cold. 

Two — Always  roll  one  way  and  on  one  side  of  the  pastry. 

Three — Shortening  should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible. 

Four — Dough  should  be  mixed  with  a  knife  and  not  touched 
with  the  hands. 

Five — Shortening  should  be  cut  in  with  a  knife. 

Six — Cook  pastry  in  a  hot  oven  having  the  greatest  heat 
at  the  bottom  so  that  it  may  rise  before  browning.  Crust  is 
done  when  it  slips  from  the  pan. 


CHAPTER  XXVII 

BETTINA  MAKES  APPLE  JELLY 

* fTX7'HAT  have  you  been  doing?"  asked  Bob,  as  he  and 
*  »      Bettina  sat  down  to  dinner. 

"Oh,  Bob,  I've  had  the  nicest  day !  Mother  'phoned  me  this 
morning  that  Uncle  John  had  brought  her  several  big  baskets 
of  apples  from  the  farm,  and  that  if  I  cared  to  come  over  to 
help,  we  would  put  them  up  together,  and  I  might  have  half. 
Well,  we  made  apple  jelly,  plum  and  apple  jelly,  and  raspberry 
and  apple  jelly.  I  had  made  all  these  before,  and  knew  how 
good  they  were,  but  I  learned  something  new  from  Mother 
that  has  made  me  feel  happy  ever  since." 

"And  so  you  came  home,  and  in  your  enthusiasm  made  this 
fine  dandy  peach  cobbler  for  dinner !" 

"Bob,  that  was  the  very  way  I  took  to  express  my  joy !" 

"Well,  what  is  this  wonderful  new  apple  concoction?" 

"Perhaps  it  isn't  new,  but  it  was  new  to  me !  It  is  an  apple 
and  mint  jelly,  and  I  know  it  will  be  just  the  thing  to  serve 
with  meat  this  winter." 

"How  did  you  make  it?  (I  hope  you  are  noticing  how  inter- 
ested I'm  becoming  in  all  the  cooking  processes!)" 

"Well,  I  washed  and  cut  into  small  pieces  four  pounds  of 
greening  apples.  Then  I  washed  and  chopped  fine  one  cup 
of  fresh  mint,  and  added  it  to  the  apples.  I  covered  the  mix- 
ture with  water,  and  cooked  it  all  till  the  apples  were  so  tender 
that  they  were  falling  to  pieces.  I  strained  it  then,  and  used 
three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  juice.  I  cooked 
this  till  the  mixture  jellied,  and  then  I  added  four  teaspoons  of 


96 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  97 

lemon  juice  and  enough  green  vegetable  color  paste  to  give  it  a 
delicate  color." 

"Isn't  that  coloring  matter  injurious?" 

"Oh,  no,  Bob !  It's  exactly  as  pure  as  any  vegetable,  and  it 
gives  things  such  a  pretty  color.  Why,  I  use  it  very  often,  and 
I'm  sure  that  more  people  would  try  it  if  they  knew  how  suc- 
cessful it  is !  It  is  such  fun  to  experiment  with.  Of  course,  I 
never  use  anything  but  the  vegetable  coloring." 

"Well,  go  on  with  the  jelly.    What  next  ?" 

"That's  all,  I  think.  I  just  poured  it  into  glasses,  and  there 
it  is,  waiting  for  you  to  help  me  carry  it  home  from  Mother's. 
Now,  Bob,  won't  that  be  good  next  winter  with  cold  roast  beef 
or  cold  roast  veal  ?  I  know  it  will  be  just  the  thing  to  use  with 
a  pork  roast !" 

"I'm  growing  very  enthusiastic.  Sounds  fine.  But  speaking 
of  cooking,  this  is  a  mighty  good  dinner.  I  like  peach  cobbler 
as  well  as  any  dessert  there  is." 

"I'm  glad  you  like  it.  But  I  forgot  to  tell  you,  Bob,  that  I'm 
to  have  all  the  apples  I  can  use  in  the  fall.  Uncle  John  has 
promised  them  to  me.  Then  Mother  says  we'll  make  cider. 
Won't  that  be  fine?" 

"I  should  say  it  will !  Cider  and  doughnuts  and  pumpkin 
pie !  Makes  me  long  for  fall  already !  But  then,  I  like  green 
corn  and  watermelon  and  peaches,  so  I  suppose  I  can  wait." 

That  evening  Bettina  served : 


Sliced  Beef  Loaf 

Sauted  Potatoes  Creamed  Corn 

Cinnamon  Rolls  Butter 

Peach   Cobbler  Cream 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sauted  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

2  large  potatoes  cooked     l/2  t-salt 
2  T-lard  J4  t-pepper 


98       A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Peel  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Put  two  tablespoons  of  lard  in 
the  frying-pan.  When  hot,  add  the  potatoes  and  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  thoroughly  on  all  sides.  (They 
should  cook  about  ten  minutes.) 


Creamed  Corn  (Two  portions) 

I  C-corn  cut  from  the       i  t-butter 
cob  i  T-milk   or    cream 

y*  C-water  y2  t-sugar 

XA  t-salt 

Cook  the  corn  and  water  together  very  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  the  water  is  all  cooked  out.  (Place  on  an  as- 
bestos mat  to  prevent  burning.)  Add  butter,  milk,  sugar  and 
salt.    Serve  hot. 

Cinnamon  Rolls  (Twelve  rolls) 

2  T-sugar  54   C-lukewarm  water 

y*  t-salt  iy2  C-flour 

I  C-milk    (scalded   and         3  T-butter 
lukewarm)  4  T-sugar 

I  yeast  cake  %  C-butter 

y2  C-sugar 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  scalded  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  the 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water. 
Add  one  and  a  half  cups  flour.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk,  add  the  butter  (melted),  four 
tablespoons  sugar  and  more  flour  (enough  to  knead).  Let 
rise,  knead  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  spread 
with  a  mixture  made  by  adding  melted  butter,  one  and  a 
fourth  cups  sugar  and  the  cinnamon.  Roll  up  like  a  jelly 
roll.  Cut  in  slices  three- fourths  inch  thick.  Place  in  a  pan  one 
inch  apart,  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
JVenty-five  minutes. 

Peach  Cobbler  (Two  portions) 

1  C-flour  3  good-sized  reaches 

1  t-baking  powder  1/3  C-sugar 
%  t-salt  H  t-vanilla 

1  T-butter  %  C-sugar 

%  C-milk  54  C-water 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  99 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  dry  ingredients  (baking  powder,  salt 
and  flour),  and  add  the  milk.  (The  resulting  dough  should  be 
of  biscuit  dough  consistency.)  Peel  and  slice  the  peaches,  mix 
well  with  the  sugar  (one-third  cup)  and  place  on  the  bottom  of 
a  baking  dish,  (not  tin.)  Place  dough  shaped  to  fit.  on  the 
top  of  the  pei  ,hes.  Make  three  holes  to  allow  the  steam  to 
escape.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  four  minutes.  When  the  cobbler  has  cooked 
for  twenty  minutes,  pour  the  syrup  over  it  and  allow  to  cook 
ten  minutes  more.  Cream  may  be  served  with  the  cobbler  if 
desired. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

A    SUNDAY   DINNER 

**\X  7"E  have  gone  'over  home'  for  so  many  Sunday  dinners 
▼  *  lately,"  Bettina  had  said  to  her  mother,  "that  I  want 
you  and  father  to  come  here  tomorrow." 

"But,  Bettina,"  her  mother  protested,  "isn't  it  too  much 
work  for  von  ?    And  won't  ycu  be  going  to  church  ?" 

"I  can't  go  to  church  tomorrow,  anyhow,  for  Bob's  Uncle 
Eric  is  to  be  in  town  all  morning ;  he  leaves  at  noon.  an4  the 
Dixons  have  offered  us  their  car  to  take  him  for  a  drive. 
Don't  worry,  Mother,  I'll  have  a  simple  dinner — a  'roast  beef 
dinner,'  I  believe.     I  often  think  that  is  the  very  easiest  kind." 

Sunday  morning  was  so  beautiful  that  Bettina  could  not  bear 
to  stay  indoors.  Accordingly,  she  set  the  breakfast  table  on 
the  porch,  even  though  Uncle  Eric  protested  that  it  was  too 
far  for  her  to  walk  back  and  forth  with  the  golden  brown 
waffles  she  baked  for  his  especial  delight.  When  he  and  Bob 
had  eaten  two  "batches,"  Uncle  Eric  insisted  that  he  could 
bake  them  himself  for  a  while.  He  installed  Bettina  in  her 
chair  at  the  table,  and  forced  waffles  upon  her  till  she  begged 
for  mercy. 

"Gracious !"  Bettina  exclaimed  as  she  heard  the  "honk"-  of 
the  Dixons'  automobile  at  the  door.  "There  are  the  Dixons 
already  and  we  have  just  finished  breakfast!  Bob,  you  and 
Uncle  Eric  will  have  to  go  on  without  me,  for  I  must  get  the 
roast  in  the  oven  and  do  the  morning's  work." 

"Well,  I  learned  today  to  make  waffles,"  said  Uncle  Eric. 

For  dinner  that  day  Bettina  served : 


100 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  101 

Roast  Beef  Brown  Gravy 

Browned  Potatoes  Baked  Squash 

Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Lemon  Sherbet  Devil's  Food  Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Roast  Beef    (Eight  portions) 

$l/2  lb.  rump  roast  of  beef        2  t-salt 
4  T-flour  K  C-hot  water 

Roll  the  roast  in  the  flour  and  set  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping- 
pan.  Place  in  1  hot  oven  and  sear  over  all  sides.  Sprinkle 
the  salt  over  the  meat  and  add  the  hot  water.  Cover  the  meat 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes. 
Allow  fifteen  minutes  a  pound  for  a  rare  roast,  and  twenty 
minutes  a  pound  for  a  well  done  roast.  When  properly  done, 
the  outside  fat  is  crisp  and  brown. 

Brown  Potatoes  (Six  portions) 

6  potatoes    1    t-salt 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Forty 
minutes  before  the  roast  is  to  be  done,  add  the  potatoes.  Dur- 
ing the  last  ten  minutes  of  cooking  the  lid  may  be  removed 
from  the  meat  and  potatoes  to  allow  all  to  brown  nicely. 

Browned  Gravy  (Six  portions) 

4  T-beef  drip-  1  C-water 

pmgs 
2  T-flour  %  t-salt 

Place  four  tablespoons  of  beef  drippings  in  a  pan,  add 
the  flour  and  allow  to  brown.  Add  the  rest  of  the  drippings, 
the  water  and  the  salt.     Cook  two  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Baked   Squash    (Six  portions) 

1  squash  il/2  t-salt 

2  T-butter  ^  t-paprika 

Wash  and  wipe  the  squash,  and  cut  into  halves,  then  quar- 
ters.    Remove  the  seeds.     Place  the  pieces  of  squash,  skin 


102     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

down,  in  a  baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
tender  (about  one  hour).  Remove  from  the  oven,  mash  up 
with  a  fork,  and  add  to  each  portion  one-half  a  teaspoon  of 
butter,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one-eighth  a  teaspoon 
of  paprika.     Reheat  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot. 

Devil's  Food  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

1/3  C-butter  1  t-vanilla 

1  C-sugar  2/3  t-soda 

1  egg  2  C-flour 
2/3  C-sour    milk 

2  squares  of  melted  chocolate 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  to  cream  the 
mixture.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the  chocolate.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  soda  and  flour  sifted  together,  and  the  sour  milk 
and  vanilla.  Beat  three  minutes.  Bake  in  two  layer  cake  pans 
prepared  with  waxed  p?per  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Icing  (Sixteen  portions) 

2  C-"C"    sugar         2  egg-whites  beaten  stiffly 
Yz  C-water  I  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  clicks  wnen  a 
little  is  dropped  into  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  slowly  over 
the  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat  vigorously  until  creamy.  Add  the 
vanilla.  Pour  on  one  layer  of  the  cake.  Place  the  upper  layer 
on  top,  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  icing  upon  it.  Spread  evenly 
over  the  top  and  over  the  sides. 


CHAPTER   XXIX 
BOB    MAKES   PEANUT   FUDGE 

**T  USUALLY  complain  when  it  rains — I  have  that  habit — 

■*■  but  I  must  confess  that  I  like  a  rainy  evening  at  home 
once  in  a  while,"  said  Bob,  as  he  and  Bettina  sat  down  at  the 
dinner  table.     "Dinner  on  a  rainy  night  always  seems  so  cozy." 

"Liver  and  bacon  don't  constitute  a  very  elaborate  dinner," 
said  Bettina.  "But  they  taste  good  for  a  change.  And  oh, 
Bob,  tonight  I  want  you  to  try  a  new  recipe  I  heard  of — peanut 
fudge.     It  sounds  delicious." 

"I'm  there,"  said  Bob.  "I  was  just  thinking  it  would  be  a 
good  candy  evening.  Then,  when  the  candy  is  done,  we'll 
assemble  under  the  new  reading  lamp  and  eat  it." 

"Yes,  it'll  be  a  good  way  to  initiate  the  reading  lamp !  Wasn't 
it  dear  of  Uncle  Eric  to  give  it  to  us?  I  kept  wondering  why 
he  was  so  anxious  to  know  just  what  I  planned  to  do  with 
the  money  I  won  for  my  nut  bread  at  the  fair.  I  even  took 
him  around  and  pointed  out  this  particular  lamp  as  the  thing 
I  had  been  saving  for.  And  here  it  arrived  the  day  after  he 
left,  as  a  gift  to  me!  It  was  dear  of  Uncle  Eric!  But  now 
what  on  earth  shall  I  do  with  my  fair  money  ?" 

"Don't  worry  about  that,  Bettina.     Put  it  in  the  bank." 

"But  I'd  like  to  get  something  as  sort  of  a  monument  to  my 
luck.     Have  you  any  particular  needs,  Bob?" 

"Not  a  need  in  the  world !  Except  for  one  more  of  those 
fine  fruit  gems  over  there." 

That  night  they  had  for  dinner: 

Liver  and  Bacon  Creamed  Turnips 

Fruit  Gems  Apple  Sauce 

Tea 


103 


104     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed  Turnips  (Two  portions) 

1  C-turnip  cubes        1  T-flour 
1/3  t-salt  H  t-salt 

1  T-butter  j/2  C-milk 

Peel  the  turnips.  Cut  into  one-half  inch  cubes.  Soak  in 
cold  water  ten  minutes.  Cook  in  boiling  water  in  an  uncovered 
utensil  until  transparent  no  longer.  Drain  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  the  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  blend  well,  add  the  milk  gradually  and  cook  until 
creamy.     Add  the  turnips  and  serve. 

Liver  and  Bacon   (Two  portions) 

4  slices  bacon       I  t-salt 
2/3  lb.  liver  %  t-paprika 

3  T-flour 

Cover  slices  of  calves'  liver  cut  one-half  inch  thick  with 
boiling  water.  Allow  to  stand  five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut 
into  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll 
in  flour.  Have  a  frying  pan  very  hot.  Add  sliced  bacon. 
When  the  bacon  has  cooked  on  each  side,  pile  up  on  one  side  of 
the  pan  and  add  the  liver,  placing  a  piece  of  bacon  on  top  of 
each  portion  of  liver,  thus  preventing  the  bacon  from  getting 
too  well  done,  and  also  seasoning  the  liver.  Brown  the  liver 
thoroughly  on  both  sides.  (It  should  be  cooked  about  ten 
minutes.)     Serve  hot. 

Fruit  Gems   (Nine   Gems) 

2  C-flour  Y^   C-milk 

3  t-baking    powder  1   tgg 

3  T-sugar  1  T-melted    butter 

Yi,  t-salt  1/3  C-seeded,  chopped 

raisins  or  currants 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Break  the 
egg  into  the  milk,  stir  well,  pour  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat 
vigorously  one  minute.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  raisins  or 
currants.  Bake  in  nine  well  buttered  gem  pans  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  105 

Peanut  Fudge   (Six  portions) 

I  C-"C"  sugar  2/3  C-milk 

1  C-granulated    sugar  1  T-butter 
x/i  t-cream  of  tartar  1  t-vanilla 

2  squares  of  chocolate  x/2  C-broken  peanuts 

Mix  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar,  chocolate,  milk  and  butter. 
Cook  over  a  moderate  fire  until  the  fudge  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  allow  to  stand  without  stirring  for  twenty  minutes.  Beat 
vigorously  until  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and  peanuts.  When 
very  thick  remove  to  a  buttered  plate.  Allow  to  harden  and 
cut  in  squares. 


CHAPTER  XXX 
DINNER  AT  THE  DIXONS 

^TS  it  still  as  much  fun  to  keep  house  as  it  was  at  first, 

-*-  Charlotte?"  asked  Bettina  as  she  and  Bob  sat  down  to 
dinner  with  the  Dixons. 

"Fun?"  said  Charlotte.  "Bettina,  look  at  me!  Or  better 
still,  look  at  Frank !  And  the  funny  part  of  it  all  is  that  Aunt 
Isabel  thinks  our  keeping  house  is  a  result  of  her  preach- 
ments against  boarding  and  hotel  living.  Why,  she  quite  ap- 
proves of  me  now !  And  I'll  just  keep  quiet  and  let  her  feel 
that  she  was  the  one  who  did  it,  but  all  the  while  in  my  heart 
I'll  be  remembering  that  it  was  the  sight  of  your  happiness 
that  roused  my  ambition  to  make  a  home  myself." 

"I  tell  you,"  said  Mr.  Dixon,  "we  can  never  thank  you 
enough,  Bettina.  Now  shall  I  play  'Home  Sweet  Home'  on  the 
piano?    And  will  you  all  join  in  the  chorus?" 

"Not  if  you  sing,  too,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  smiling  at  her 
husband's  foolishness.  "I've  learned  a  great  deal  from  you, 
since  I  began,  Bettina,  and  not  the  smallest  lesson  is  that  of 
having  company  without  dreading  it.  I  don't  try  to  make 
things  elaborate,  just  dainty  and  simple  food  such  as  we  have 
every  day.  Why,  tonight  I  didn't  make  a  single  change  for 
you  and  Bob !  And  I  don't  believe  I  should  dread  even  Aunt 
Isabel's  sudden  arrival  now." 

"Aunt  Isabel  is  really  a  good  soul,  Bettina,"  said  Frank. 
"Charlotte  has  never  learned  how  much  worse  her  bark  is  than 
her  bite,  and  she  takes  it  to  heart  when  Aunt  Isabel  speaks 
her  mind.     Why,  I  remember  so  well  the  scoldings  she  used 


106 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  107 

to  give  me  when  I  was  a  boy,  and  the  cookies  she  would  man- 
age to  treat  me  with  afterward!  I  used  to  anticipate  those 
pleasant  scoldi  js !" 

"If  a  scoldiug  always  comes  before  food,"  said  Bob,  "Char- 
lotte must  have  given  you  an  extra  good  one  before  inviting 
us  to  partake  of  that  delicious-looking  chocolate  pier* 

That  evening  they  had : 

Cold  Sliced  Ham  Creamed  Potatoes 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Rice 

Peach    Butter 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Rice  (Six  portions) 

6  tomatoes  2  T-grated      cheese 

y2  C-rice,    cooked         I  t-chopped    onion 

l/2  C-green  pepper,  J4  t-salt 
chopped  i  T-butter 

Remove  a  piece  one  inch  in  diameter  from  the  stem  end  of 
">ach  tomato.  Take  out  the  seeds.  Fill  the  shells  with  the 
rice,  pepper,  cheese,  onion  and  salt,  well  mixed.  Place  a  small 
dot  of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Place  in  a  small  pan  and  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Pie  Crust   (Six  portions) 

I  C-flour        54  t-salt 
1/3  C-lard  3  T-ice  water 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  the  lard  with  a  knife,  add  the 
liquid  slowly,  stirring  with  the  knife.  More  water  may  be 
needed.  Roll  out  thin,  fit  onto  a  tin  pan,  prick  with  holes, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  light  brown  (about  seven  min- 
utes). 

Filling  (Six  portions) 

1  C-sugar         2  egg  yolks 

5  T-flour      il/2  squares  melted 
%  t-salt  chocolate 

2  G-milk         Y2  t-vanilla 


108     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  well  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  gradually  the  milk 
and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen  min- 
utes. Add  the  melted  chocolate.  Cook  until  thick  (about  ten 
minutes),  and  add  the  vanilla.  Fill  the  baked  shell,  and  cover 
with  meringue.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  until  the 
meringue  is  a  delicate  brown  (about  five  minutes). 

Meringue 
2  egg  whites     4  T-sugar 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff.  Add  the  sugar.  Pile 
lightly  on  the  chocolate  mixture.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Choco- 
late pie  should  be  served  cold. 


CHAPTER  XX*I 

A  GOOD-BY  LUNCHEON  FOR  BERNADETTE 

f*"DIG  success!"  was  what  Bettina's  eyes  telegraphed  to 
•*-*  Ruth  across  the  purple  and  white  asters  in  the  center 
of  a  long  porch  table.  Ruth  was  giving  a  farewell  luncheon 
for  Bernadette,  her  young  cousin,  who  was  leaving  that  night 
for  a  fashionable  New  York  school.  Although  there  was  no 
suggestion  of  it  in  the  dainty  dishes  the  two  girls  served  to  the 
hungry  and  vivacious  young  guests,  Ruth  was  "trying  out" 
her  cooking  with  all  of  the  stage-fright  of  the  beginner.  The 
recipes  and  suggestions  were  chiefly  Bettina's,  and  the  two 
had  been  busy  in  Ruth's  kitchen  since  early  that  morning. 
Bernadette  was  a  critical  young  person,  although  light-hearted 
and  affectionate,  and  Ruth  felt  that  she  could  set  her  humble 
efforts  before  no  sterner  judge.  Yet  all  the  while,  as  she 
tasted  each  course  in  its  turn,  her  mind  was  running  on,  "Will 
Fred  like  this?  Some  day  I'll  be  serving  this  to  Fred!"  It 
was  certainly  a  satisfaction  to  feel  one's  self  able  to  cook  a 
luncheon  acceptable  to  "the  younger  society  set !" 

With  each  course  an  enormous  motto,  supposedly  of  the 
"Don'ts  for  School  Girls'  Series,"  was  brought  in  ceremoni- 
ously on  a  tray  and  suspended  from  the  chandelier  over  the 
table,  until  finally  five  huge,  if  foolish,  "Don'ts"  were  dangling 
there  for  Bernadette's  inspection. 

With  the  last  course,  Ruth,  in  the  postman's  hat,  coat  and 
bag,  brought  in  an  endless  supply  of  letters  for  Bernadette, 
to  be  opened  at  such  times  as  "When  You  Meet  Your  Impos- 
sible Room-mate,"  "When  You  Feel  the  First  Pangs  of  Home- 

109 


110     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

sickness,"  "When  Reprimanded  by  a  Horrid  Old  Teacher,,: 
"When  Forced  to  Mend  Your  Own  Stockings,"  etc. 

Bernadette  seized  them  all  delightedly,  glanced  at  the  covers 
and  cried  out,  half  in  laughter,  half  in  tears,  "Oh,  girls,  I 
simply  can't  go  'way  off  there!  I'll  die!"  Her  friends  fell 
upon  her  with  scoldings  and  hugs,  and  in  the  midst  of  the 
noise  and  clamor,  Ruth  and  Bettina  slipped  out  to  laugh  and 
talk  over  Ruth's  first  serious  culinary  effort. 

The  menu  consisted  of : 

Iced  Cantaloupe  Balls 

Chicken  Croquettes  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with   Corn 

Rolls  Peach   Pickles 

Cherry  Salad  Wafers 

Chocolate  Cream  Pudding 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  Croquettes    (Eight  croquettes) 

V/2  C-cooked    chopped       i  t-parsley  chopped  fine 
chicken  lA  C-thick    white    sauce 

H  t-celery  salt  H  t-salt 

I  t-lemon  mice  2  C-crumbs 

4  T-egg,  beaten 

Mix  the  chicken,  celery  salt,  lemon  juice,  parsley,  salt  and 
thick  white  sauce.  Shape  into  croquettes.  Roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  beaten  egg  and  more  crumbs.     Deep  fry.    Serve  hot. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Corn   (Six  portions) 

I  C-corn-pulp,  cooked       2  T-bread     crumbs 
J4  t-salt  z/i  t-pepper 

1  egg-yolk  y2  t-sugar 

%  C-milk  1  T-butter 

6  green  peppers 

Scoop  out  the  contents  of  the  peppers.  Mix  the  corn,  salt, 
egg  yolk,  milk,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  sugar.  Fill  the 
peppers.  Dot  with  butter.  Place  in  a  pan  and  bake  thirty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
with  water.     Baste  the  peppers  frequently. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  111 

Cherry   Salad    (Six   portions) 

2  C-California      y2  C-hazelnuts 
cherries  6  lettuce   leaves 

6  T-salad  dressing 

Remove  the  seeds  from  two  cups  of  California  white  cher- 
ries, and  fill  with  filberts  or  hazel  nuts.  Arrange  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pudding  (Six  portions) 

2  C-milk  1^2  squares  of  melted 

5  T-cornstarch  chocolate 

Yi  C-sugar  3  T-hot  water 

Yl  t-salt  2  egg-whites 

i  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  cold  milk  gradu- 
ally, mixing  well.  Melt  the  chocolate  in  the  hot  water,  and 
add  it  to  the  other  mixture.  Cook  in  the  double  boiler  ten 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  three  minutes.  Add  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  and  the  vanilla.  Mould,  chill  and  serve. 
If  the  chocolate  does  not  melt  in  the  hot  water,  cook  over  the 
fire  a  minute.  Whipped  cream  may  be  served  with  the  pud- 
ding. 


CHAPTER  XXXII 

BETTINA   PLANS   AN   ANNOUNCEMENT 
LUNCHEON 

**  A  ^^  so  *  t^ou&^t,  if  you  were  willing,  I  would  have  the 
J~\  luncheon  the  last  of  this  week,"  said  Bettina  to  Alice 

one  sultry  afternoon  which  they  were  spending  on  Bettina's 

porch. 

"That's  dear  of  you,  Bettina.     Oh,  how  queer  it  will  seem 

to  have  everyone  know  about  it !     You  must  let  me  help  with 

the  luncheon,  of  course." 

"No,  indeed,  Alice !     Ruth  and  I  are  going  to  do  it  all  alone, 

and  the  guest  of  honor  is  not  to  lift  a  finger !    You  can  advise 

us,  of  course,  but  you  mustn't  arrive  that  day  till  everything 

is  ready.     I  want  to  tell  you  about  a  few  plans  I've  made. 

I  wish  I  could  consult  Harry,  too." 

"But  he  won't  be  at  the  announcement  party!" 

"No,  but  he's  the  leading  man  in  the  drama,  and  important 

even  when  off  the  stage.     Let's  telephone  him  to  come  here 

to  dinner  tonight.     It  is  so  warm  that  I  have  planned  only  a 

lunch,  but  we  can  set  the  porch  table  and  have  a  jolly  informal 

time.     Do  call  him  up,  Alice." 

"I'd  love  to,  of  course,  if  you  really  want  us." 

"Indeed  I  do,  but  we'll  have  to  hurry,  for  it's  after  five 

now." 

"I'll  help  you,"  said  Alice,  after  Harry  had  given  his  hearty 

acceptance.     "Let  me  fix  the  salad." 

"All  right,  and  I'll  stir  up  some  little  tea  cakes.     It's  better 

not  to  cut  those  beets  too  small,  Alice ;  it  makes  them  soft. 


112 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  113 

I  never  add  them  till  just  before  I  serve  the  salad.  There, 
that's  fine!  Do  you  want  to  fix  the  parsley  to  garnish  the 
ham?  Ham  looks  so  much  better  with  parsley  that  I  never 
fail  to  garnish  it.  I  have  nasturtiums  for  the  center  of  the 
table,  and  we'll  garnish  the  salad  with  them,  too." 

"It  will  be  a  festive  little  meal.  What  else  can  I  do  while 
you're  baking  the  tea  cakes?" 

"You  can  make  the  iced  tea,  Alice.  You  do  everything  so 
easily  and  deftly  that  I  love  to  watch  you.  And  you  have 
never  cooked  at  all  until  lately,  have  you?" 

"No,  but  I  really  like  it.  Wouldn't  it  be  a  joke  if  I  should 
become  very  domestic?" 

"Well,  your  fate  is  pointing  in  that  direction!  Time  is 
swiftly  passing,  and  in  a  few  short  weeks — Alice,  shall  I  call 
off  the  announcement  luncheon?" 

"Oh,  no,  no,  Bettina !  Let  fate  do  her  worst !  I'm  re- 
signed." 

Supper  that  night  consisted  of : 

Cold  Sliced  Ham  Beet  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Tea  Cakes  Apple  Sauce 

Iced  Tea 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Beet  Salad  (Four  portions) 

I  C-cold    boiled    beets    cut    in  i  hard-cooked     egg,     diced 

54-inch  cubes  1/3  C-diced  cucumber 

1/3  C-cold  boiled  potatoes,  cubed  l/2  t-salt 

1/3  C-diced  celery  x/2   C-salad   dressing 

Mix  the  beets,  potatoes,  celery,  tgg,  cucumber  and  salt  very 
lightly  together  with  a  fork.  IVIix  with  salad  dressing.  Serve 
in  a  bowl  garnished  with  nasturtium  leaves  and  flowers. 

"Lightning"  Tea  Cakes   (Twelve  cakes) 

V/2  C-flour  1/3  t-salt 

24  C-granulated  or         3  T-butter  (melted) 

powdered  sugar         1  egg 
2  t-baking  powder       l/2   C-milk 
l/3  t-vanilla 


114     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Sift  and  mix  together  the  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Make  a  "well"  in  the  center  of  the  mixture  and  pour  in 
the  melted  butter,  egg,  milk  and  vanilla.  Stir  all  together  and 
beat  vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Fill  well  buttered  muffin 
pans  half  full  of  the  mixture  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 
RUTH  AND  BETTINA  MAKE  PREPARATIONS 

ff/^wH,  Bettina,  aren't  the  butterflies  darling?"  exclaimed 

V_>/  Ruth,  looking  once  more  at  the  table  display  of  her 
work.  "And  with  everything  ready  to  begin  in  the  morning, 
won't  things  be  easy  for  us  both  ?    What  shall  I  do  next  ?" 

"Not  a  thing,  Ruth  dear.  You've  worked  too  hard  all  this 
afternoon,  I'm  afraid.  Now  we're  going  to  sit  down  to  a  good 
hot  dinner,  and  tell  Bob  all  about  our  preparations." 

"M — m!  Something  smells  good!"  said  Ruth.  "I've  been 
so  busy  with  all  these  cunning  things  that  I  haven't  even 
thought  of  eating.  But  now  that  you  mention  it,  I'll  admit 
that  I  have  a  fine  healthy  appetite." 

"Well,  dinner  is  almost  ready,  and  Bob  will  be  here  any 
minute.  It's  all  in  the  oven  except  the  corn :  meat  loaf,  sweet 
potatoes  and  apricot  cobbler." 

"Oh,  how  good  it  sounds !  More  sensible  than  all  our  fluffy 
dishes  for  the  announcement  luncheon.  But  then,  I  do  love 
fluffy  things.  I'm  sure  Alice  will  like  it,  and  all  the  others, 
too.  Makes  me  'most  wish  I'd  kept  my  engagement  a  secret, 
and  announced  it  with  ceremony  as  Alice  is  doing.  But  I 
couldn't,  somehow." 

"No,  you  couldn't,  Ruth,  and  neither  could  Fred.  He'd  give 
it  away  if  you  didn't.  So  I  guess  there's  no  use  wishing  you 
1iad  kept  it.  Anyhow,  you  just  suit  me  as  you  are.  You've 
been  such  a  dear  to  help  with  the  luncheon !  Goodness,  there's 
Bob  now !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of: 

115 


116     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Beef  Loaf  Sweet  Potatoes 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Bread  Butter 

Apricot  Cobbler 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Beef  Loaf  (Three  portions) 

I  lb.  beef  ground  x/2  t-salt 

%  lb.  salt  pork,  ground  %  t-pepper 

54  t-onion  salt  %  C-tomato 

1/3  C-fresh  bread  crumbs  J4  C-water 

1  egg  1  T-fat  drippings 

Mix  the  ground  beef  and  salt  pork,  add  the  onion  salt,  fresh 
crumbs,  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  tomato.  Mix  thoroughly.  Shape 
into  a  loaf  which  will  fit  into  a  small  buttered  pan.  Add  the 
water  and  pour  fat  drippings  over  the  top.  (Bacon  fat  is 
good.)  Cover  the  pan,  and  allow  to  cook  in  the  oven  one- 
half  hour.  Uncover  the  loaf,  basting  frequently,  and  brown  it. 
This  will  take  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot.  More 
water  may  be  added  while  cooking  if  necessary. 

Sweet  Potatoes  (Three  portions) 
3  potatoes     H  t-salt 
Peel  the  potatoes,  salt  them  with  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  in  each  potato,  and  place  them  in  the  pan  with  the  meat. 
This  gives  the  potatoes  a  good  flavor. 

Bettina's  Apricot  Cobbler   (Three   portions) 

1  C-cooked  and  sweetened  1/3  t-salt 

apricots  2  T-butter 

1  T-flour  1/3  C-milk 

y2  t-cinnamon  1/3  C-sugar 

1  C-flour  H  C-water 

2  t-baking  powder  y2  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  apricots,  one  tablespoon  flour  and  cinnamon.  Mix 
and  sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the 
butter  with  a  knife.  Add  the  milk  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed. 
Place  the  apricot  mixture  in  a  baking-dish  and  the  dough  on 
top  of  the  apricots.  Cook  the  water  and  sugar  together  for 
three  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla.  When  the  cobbler  has  baked 
fifteen  minutes  pour  syrup  over  it.  Bake  ten  minutes  more  in 
a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   XXXIV 

A    RAINBOW   ANNOUNCEMENT  LUNCHEON 

ffy^vH,  Bettina,  how  lovely!"  cried  the  ten  guests  in  a 
V^/  chorus,  as  Ruth  and  Bettina  ushered  them  into  the 
softly  lighted  dining-room.  Not  one  had  had  even  a  glimpse 
of  the  luncheon  table  before,  for  Ruth  had  been  entertaining 
them  on  the  porch  while  Bettina  put  on  the  finishing  touches. 
It  all  seemed  a  burst  of  soft  rainbow  colors.  "What  is  it?" 
cried  someone.     "How  did  you  ever  get  the  rainbow  effect?" 

"Let's  not  examine  it  too  closely,"  said  Bettina.  "You  know 
a  rainbow  after  all  is  nothing  but  drops  of  water  with  the  sun 
shining  through,  and  maybe  my  rainbow  table  has  a  prosy 
explanation,  too." 

From  the  low  mass  of  variegated  garden  flowers  in  the 
center — pink,  yellow,  lavender,  orange,  blue,  and  as  many  oth- 
ers as  the  girls  could  find — ran  strips  of  soft  tulle  in  rainbow 
colors.  The  strips  were  attached  at  the  outer  end  to  the  dainty 
butterflies  which  perched  lightly  on  the  tulle  covered  candy 
cups.  These  candy  cups  held  pink,  lavender  and  green  Jordan 
almond  candies.  More  butterflies  in  all  sizes  and  colors  hov- 
ered among  the  flowers.  Upon  the  plain  white  name  cards, 
little  butterflies  had  been  outlined  in  black  and  decorated  in 
butterfly  colors.  Ruth  and  Bettina  had  cut  with  the  scissors 
around  this  outline  and  then,  when  it  had  been  cut  almost  away, 
had  folded  back  the  butterfly  so  that  it  stood  up  on  the  card, 
as  ready  for  flight  as  its  brothers  and  sisters. 

"Aren't  they  cunning?"  exclaimed  Barbara,  taking  her  but- 
terfly from  her  favor  cup.     "Goodness,  it's  attached  to  some- 


117 


118     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

thing !"  Pulling  gently  by  the  rainbow  tulle  to  which  the  but- 
terfly had  been  pasted,  she  drew  forth  from  the  greenery  in 
the  center  a  little  golden  bag.  It  was  in  reality  a  little  fat  bag 
of  soft  yellow  silk  tied  with  gold  cord  and  holding  something 
that,  seen  through  the  mesh,  appeared  to  be — gold  ? 

The  other  girls,  in  great  excitement,  drew  forth  their  little 
bags. 

"Rice !"  declared  Mary,  "though  it  looks  yellow !" 

"It's  the  bag  of  gold  at  the  foot  of  the  rainbow !"  exclaimed 
Ruth,  with  flushed  cheeks.     "Discovered  by " 

"Harry  Harrison  and  Alice!"  cried  the  girls,  laughing  al- 
most hysterically.  For  one  small  card  which  read,  "Discov- 
ered by"  and  the  two  names,  in  gold  letters,  was  tied  to  the 
little  bag  by  the  gold  cord. 

"Alice,  how  did  you  ever  manage  to  keep  it  a  secret  ?"  asked 
someone. 

"Well,  it  would  have  been  harder  if  you  had  all  known 
Harry,  but  you  see,  we  haven't  been  with  the  crowd  much 
lately,  have  we?  Now  admit  it!  You  haven't  even  missed 
me!" 

"But  you're  more  of  a  butterfly  than  any  of  the  rest  of  us. 
And  the  limits  of  the  old  crowd  don't  always  bound  your 
flutterings." 

"I'm  not  a  butterfly  any  more,"  said  Alice.  "I  suppose  I'll 
have  a  butterfly  wedding  (Harry  will  detest  it,  but  he'll  have 
to  give  in  that  once),  but  after  t^at  x  expect  to  be  as  domestic 
is  Bettina  here,  though  not  such  a  success  at  it,  probably. 
Aren't  these  orange  baskets  the  prettiest  things  ?" 

The  girls,  in  their  excitement,  had  almost  forgotten  to  eat, 
but  now  they  looked  down  at  their  plates.  Fruit  cups  in  orange 
baskets,  with  handles  of  millinery  wire  twisted  with  pink, 
green,  yellow  and  violet  tulle,  added  to  the  rainbow  effect. 
The  baskets  were  placed  on  paper  doilies  on  tea  plates,  and 
were  artistically  lined  with  mint  leaves. 

"It  looks  too  pretty  to  eat,"  said  Dorothy. 

"Ruth  will  feel  hurt  if  you  don't  like  it,  but  I  know  you 
will,"  said  Bettina.  "She  prepared  this  course,  and  made  most 
of  the  table  decorations,  too." 


With  Bettina  s  Best  Recipes  119 

"And  didn't  you  wish  that  you  were  announcing  something 
yourself,  Ruth?"  asked  Mary.  "Although  I  don't  believe  the 
crowd  could  stand  two  such  surprises !  We've  known  Fred 
and  you  so  long  that  your  engagement  seems  the  natural  thing, 
but  when  a  perfectly  strange  man  like  Mr.  Harrison  happens 
by,  and  helps  himself  to  one  of  our  number — well,  it  certainly 
takes  my  breath  away !  Where  did  you  first  meet  him,  Alice  ? 
Was  it  love  at  first  sight  ?" 

"Love  at  first  sight?  Bob  introduced  us — here,  in  this  very 
house,  and  I  thought — well — I  thought  Harry  the  most  dis- 
agreeably serious  man  I'd  ever  had  the  misfortune  to  meet! 
And  he  thought  me  the  most  disagreeably  frivolous  girl  he 
had  ever  seen!  So  our  feud  began,  and  of  course  we  had  to 
see  each  other  to  fight  it  out !" 

"And  then  comes  Bettina's  rainbow  luncheon  to  show  us 
how  serious  the  feud  proved  to  be,"  laughed  Barbara.  "What  ? 
More  courses,  Bettina  ?  This  is  a  beautiful  luncheon !  I  won- 
der who'll  be  the  next  to  discover  the  treasure  at  the  foot  of  the 
rainbow  ?" 

The  menu  consisted  of : 

Fruit  Cups  in  Orange  Baskets 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Whipped  Cream 

Salt  Wafers 


Tuna  Moulds  Egg  Sauce 

Potatoes  a  la  Bettina 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Creamed  Cauliflower 

Rolls  Butter 


Head  Lettuce,  Russian  Dressing 
Thin  Sandwiches  in  Fancy  Shapes 


Marshmallow  Cream 
Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Tuna  Loaf  (Eight  portions) 

V/t  C-tuna  I  t-lemon  juice 

i  C-fresh  bread  crumbs  I  t-chopped  green  pepper 

2  eggs  (just  the  yolks  may       I  t-salt 

be  used)  %  t-paprika 


120     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly,  picking  the  fish 
apart  with  a  silver  fork.  Mould  firmly  in  a  loaf.  Roll  in 
flour,  and  place  in  a  buttered  bread  pan.  Dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  same  recipe 
may  be  distributed  among  fancy  individual  moulds,  filled  half 
full.  Arrange  a  star-shaped  piece  of  pimento,  green  pepper, 
beet  or  egg  in  the  bottom  of  a  fancy  aluminum  mould.  An 
attractive  design  may  be  made  by  putting  the  star  cut  from 
any  vegetable  with  radiating  pieces  of  any  other  kind  of  vege- 
table of  a  different  color.  Place  the  design  firmly  on  the 
fish.  Set  the  moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  the 
mixture  is  firmly  set.  (About  thirty  minutes.)  Remove  from 
the  oven,  let  moulds  stand  three  minutes,  and  then,  with  the 
assistance  of  a  knife,  slip  them  from  the  pan,  unmould  all  the 
moulds  in  one  flat  pan,  and  keep  them  hot  until  needed.  Do 
not  forget  that  the  mould  must  be  thoroughly  buttered  before 
using.  When  ready  to  serve,  make  a  regular  vegetab1e  white 
sauce  (two  T-butter,  2  T-fiour,  1  C-milk,  %  t-salt).  When 
ready  to  serve  and  while  steaming  hot,  add  one  beaten  egg 
yoke.  The  hot  sauce  will  cook  the  tgg.  Pour  around  the 
mould. 


CHAPTER  XXXV 
AN  EARLY  CALLER 

BOB  had  scarcely  left  the  house  the  next  morning  when 
Bettina  was  called  to  the  door.  "I  couldn't  resist  com- 
ing !"  said  Alice.  "The  announcement  party  was  lovely,  and  I 
must  thank  you  for  doing  it.     Aren't  you  tired  to  pieces  ?" 

"No,  Ruth  helped  me  a  great  deal,  and  by  the  time  Bob 
came  home  to  dinner,  the  luncheon  dishes  were  washed  and 
put  away  and  the  house  was  in  apple-pie  order." 

"Everything  tasted  delicious,  Bettina.  Maybe  it  sounds  al- 
together too  practical  for  my  own  announcement  party,  but 
I'm  armed  with  a  pencil  and  a  notebook,  and  I  do  want  to 
get  some  of  those  recipes  of  yours !" 

"You're  welcome  to  them  all,  Alice,  of  course.  They  are 
all  recipes  that  I  have  used  over  and  over  again,  and  I'm 
sure  of  them." 

"What  kind  of  soup  was  it?  Celery?  I  thought  so.  Wasn't 
it  hard  to  prepare?" 

"Why,  Alice,  it  was  canned  celery  soup,  diluted  with  hot 
milk.  Then  I  added  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  red  pepper." 

"But  surely  it  had  whipped  cream  in  it,  Bettina!" 

"Yes,  I  put  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  in  the  bottom 
of  the  bouillon  cup  and  poured  the  hot  soup  on  it,  so  that  it 
would  be  well  mixed." 

"Well,  that  accounts  for  it ;  I  thought  it  must  be  made  with 
whipped  cream.  Oh,  Bettina,  everything  was  so  pretty !  The 
tulle  bows  on  the  baskets  holdine  the  wafers  and  the  rolls — 


121 


122     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

and  the  butterflies  perched  on  them !  How  did  you  ever  think 
of  it?" 

"Well,  butterflies  are  a  happy  choice  for  decorations !  They 
can  be  put  anywhere,  and  they  are  easy  to  make — at  least 
Ruth  says  so." 

"You  use  paper  doilies  a  great  deal,  ciont  you  ?  Aren't  they 
expensive?" 

"Expensive  ?  Well,  I  wish  you'd  price  them !  They  are  so 
inexpensive  that  I  like  to  use  them  even  for  a  very  informal 
meal ;  they  add  such  a  dainty  touch,  I  think." 

"I  must  write  down  the  recipes  for  your  tuna  loaf,  and  green 
peppers  stuffed  with  cauliflower,  and  Russian  dressing — and 
oh,  that  wonderful  kind  of  rainbow  dessert!  Bettina,  what 
was  that  dessert?" 

"Marshmallow  cream  made  with  gelatine  and  cream  and 
marshmallows  and  whites  of  eggs.  I  puzzled  a  long  time  over 
\  real  'rainbow'  dessert,  and  finally  decided  on  marshmallow 
cream  with  a  few  variations.  Come  into  the  kitchen,  where 
I  keep  my  card  index,  and  I'll  get  all  the  recipes  for  you." 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Potato  Balls   (Four  portions) 

4  potatoes       i  t-salt 
i  C-crumbs     2  T-egg 

Boil  potatoes  of  uniform  size  with  the  skins  on.  When  cold, 
©eel,  roll  in  crumbs,  to  which  salt  has  been  added  and  then  the 
beaten  egg  and  crumbs.    Deep  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Cauliflower  (Four  portions) 

4  green  peppers  1  C-vegetable  sauce 

1  C-cooked  cauliflower    2  T-crumbs 
1  T-butter,  melted 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  large  green  pepper 
find  remove  the  seeds.  Parboil  ten  minutes,  and  fill  with 
creamed  cauliflower  and  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  until  the  skins 
are  tender,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and  water. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  123 

Marshmallow  Cream  (Four  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin  i  t-lemon  extract 

4  T-cold  milk  %  lb.  marshmallows,  cut  in 
2/3  C-sugar  one-fourth  cubes 

I  1/3  C-double  cream  4  toasted  marshmallows 

I  t-vanilla  extract  4  pecans 

1  egg  white    well  beaten  4  almonds 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  milk  for  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  by 
setting  the  dish  in  boiling  water.  Add  the  sugar.  Allow  the 
mixture  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  congeal,  add  the  flavor- 
ings. Beat  in  the  whipped  cream,  and  continue  beating  until 
it  is  firm.  Fold  in  the  egg-white  and  the  marshmallows  cut 
in  cubes.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  set,  pile  lightly  in 
sherbet  cups.  Place  one-half  of  a  toasted  marshmallow  on 
the  top,  and  arrange  pecan  meats  and  candied  cherries  in  a 
conventional  design.     Set  aside  one  hour  to  cool  and  harden. 

Bettina  colored  the  mixture  with  vegetable  coloring  of  a 
very  delicate  green.  Then  on  the  top  she  placed  a  teaspoon ful 
of  white  whipped  cream,  then  the  toasted  marshmallow  and 
the  different  fruits.  Bettina  browned  the  marshmallows 
quickly  in  the  oven,  after  she  had  cut  them  the  desired  shape. 
She  used  cups  with  handles,  and  decorated  them  with  fluffy 
bows  of  variegated  tulles.  To  make  these  bows,  she  took  strips 
of  each  color  desire^  one  inch  wide,  tied  them  together,  and 
"fluffed  them  out."  She  might  have  gained  a  real  rainbow 
effect  by  dividing  the  marshmallow  cream  (when  mixed,  but 
not  yet  firm)  into  three  bowls,  and  coloring  them  green,  laven- 
der and  pink,  with  delicate  vegetable  colors.  Then,  having 
beaten  in  the  whipped  cream,  she  might  have  placed  in  each 
sherbet  cup  three  layers,  pink,  lavender  and  green.  Then,  on 
the  top,  she  might  have  placed  the  whipped  cream. 


OCTOBER. 

Oh,  hazy  month  of  glowing  trees, 

And  colors  rich  to  charm  our  eyes! 

Yet — not  less  fair  than  all  of  these 
Are  Mother's  fragrant  pumpkin  pies! 


CHAPTER  XXXVI 
A  KITCHEN  SHOWER  FOR  ALICE 


"D 


ID    you    want    me    for 
something,  Mary  ?"  asked 
Alice  at  the  door.    "Mother  said 
you  had  telephoned." 

"Come  in !  Come  in  !"  cried 
Iten  girls  at  once,  while  Bettina 
whispered  to  Ruth :  "Thank 
goodness,  she's  come !  The  muf- 
fins are  all  but  done !" 

What    in    the    world!"    said 
Alice. 
"A  party  for  you!" 
"And  I'm  wearing  my  old  suit!" 

"We  caught  you  this  time,  but  never  mind.  Come  in,  and 
take  off  your  things." 

As  soon  as  Alice  reappeared  in  the  living  room,  a  small  table 
was  drawn  up  before  the  open  fire.  Two  girls  appeared,  wear- 
ing gingham  aprons  and  carrying  overflowing  market  baskets. 
"This  is  a  kitchen  ishower  for  you,  Alice,"  Ruth  explained 
somewhat  ceremoniously.  "But  if  you  are  willing,  we  will  use 
the  utensils  in  serving  the  luncheon  and  afterwards  present 
them  to  you.  May  we  unpack  the  baskets?" 
"Do,"  said  Alice,  laughing. 

From  the  larger  basket,  Ruth  removed  twelve  white  enam- 
elled plates  of  different  sizes  (suitable  for  holding  supplies  in 
the  refrigerator),  and  twelve  cross-barred  tea  towels.     The 


125 


126     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

latter  she  passed  around  to  be  used  as  napkins,  and  Mary  dis- 
tributed the  plates.  On  the  small  serving  table  before  the  fire, 
a  white  muslin  table  cover  was  placed.  As  she  unfolded  it, 
Ruth  read  from  the  attached  card : 


"If  breakfast  you  should  chance  to  eat 
Upon  the  kitchen  table — 
I'll  make  it  dainty,  fair  and  neat 
So  far  as  I  am  able." 

When  the  steel  forks  and  spoons  of  various  sizes  were  taken 
out  and  passed  around,  two  glass  measuring  cups  were  found 
to  hold  loaf  sugar  wrapped  in  frilled  paper.  Upon  one  of 
these  Ruth  read : 

"Please  eat  us  all,  but  let  your  sweet 
Sweet  hours  be  duly  treasured, 
For  we  belie  the  worldly  eye — 

True  sweetness  can't  be  measured." 

A  glass  rolling-pin  filled  with  stick  candy  came  next,  and 
its  sentiments  read,  and  meanwhile  the  girls  had  begun  to  read 
aloud  the  advice  pinned  upon  the  tea-towels,  such  as : 

"No  matter  what  his  whims  and  wishes — 
Just  tell  him  he  must  wipe  the  dishes !" 

and 

"But  if  he  breaks  a  cup  or  plate, 
Just  throw  the  pieces  at  him  straight." 

"What  vindictive  dish-towels!"  said  Alice.  "They're  not  a 
bit  sentimental !" 

When  the  contents  had  been  removed  and  all  the  verses  read, 
the  large  basket  was  presented  to  Alice,  who  read  from  its 
handle : 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  127 

"To  market,  to  market,  to  buy  your  supplies ! 
You'll  go  there  in  person,  if  careful  and  wise." 

"I  will,  Mr.  Basket,  with  you  over  my  arm!"  answered 
Alice. 

Meanwhile  the  girls  had  carried  in  the  salad  in  an  earthen- 
ware mixing-bowl,  the  muffins  heaped  high  in  a  small  basket 
with  a  dainty  dustcloth  over  them,  the  coffee  in  a  large  enam- 
elled pitcher,  and  the  "molasses  puffs"  wrapped  in  frilled 
paper  in  a  basket  suitable  for  holding  supplies.  "Bettina's 
apples"  were  arranged  in  two  flat  enamelled  pans.  All  the  food 
was  served  informally  from  the  small  table,  and  the  merriment 
grew  as  the  luncheon  progressed. 

"I  wish  that  all  the  meals  Harry  and  I  have  together  might 
be  as  jolly  as  this  one !  I'm  sure  I  should  be  glad  to  eat  always 
from  kitchen  dishes,  if  that  is  what  makes  the  fun,"  said 
Alice. 

At  the  kitchen  shower,  the  luncheon  was  as  follows : 

Bettina's  Potato  Salad  Bettina's  Spiced  Beets 
Twin  Mountain  Muffins  Currant  Jelly- 
Molasses  Puffs  Bettina's  Apples 
Coffee  Stick  Candy 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina's  Potato  Salad  (Twelve  portions) 

3  C-cold  boiled  potatoes,  diced      3  T-diced  pimento 

1  C-diced  celery  2  t-salt 

l/2  C-diced  hard-cooked  egg  1  T-chopped  onion 

54  C-diced  sweet  pickles  1  C-salad  dressing 

12  lettuce  leaves 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Serve  the  salad 
very  cold  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Bettina's  Spiced  Beets  (Twelve  portions) 

5  large,  cooked  beets,     1  T-"C"  sugar 

sliced  6  cloves 

y2  C-vinegar  1  t-salt 

Vs  t-pepper 

Heat  the  vinegar,  add  the  cloves,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 


128     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Pour  over  the  beets,  cut  in  one-third  inch  slices.     Allow  to  stand 
one  hour  before  serving. 

Molasses  Puffs   (Twelve  portions) 

Y$  C-molasses  I  egg,   well  beaten 

Y$  C-sugar  2  t-ginger 

1/2  C-hot  water  1  t-cinnamon 

1/3  C-butter  and  lard  2  t-soda 

(melted)  3  C-flour 

Mix  the  molasses  and  sugar.  Add  the  hot  water  and  fat. 
Beat  well,  add  the  egg  and  mix  thoroughly.  Sift  the  ginger, 
cinnamon,  flour  and  soda  together,  and  add  to  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients,  mixing  well.  Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  three- 
fourths  full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  min- 
utes.    Ice  with  "C"  sugar  icing. 

Icing 

2  egg-whites  beaten       2  C-"C"    sugar 
stiffly 


Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  "clicks"  when 
a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  the  syrup  slowly 
over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat  vigorously  until  cool 
and  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and  spread  on  the  cakes.  If  the 
icing  gets  hard  before  it  is  cool,  add  two  tablespoons  of  water 
and  continue  beating.  The  secret  of  good  icing  is  steady, 
constant  beating. 

Bettina's  Apples  (Twelve  portions) 

12  apples  Y\  t-cinnamon 

3  C-"C"    sugar     y2  t-vanilla 
2  C-water  18  marshmallows 

1  T-butter 

Wash,  peel  and  core  the  apples:  Place  in  a  broad  flat  pan 
in  which  the  sugar  and  water  have  been  thoroughly  mixed. 
Cook  the  apples,  turning  often  until  tender,  remove  from  the 
syrup  and  place  in  a  serving  dish.  Fill  the  center  with  one- 
half  a  marshmallow.  Add  the  cinnamon  and  butter  to  the 
syrup  and  cook  five  minutes  or  until  it  thickens.  Pour  over 
and  around  the  apples.  Decorate  with  a  marshmallow  cut 
into   fourths.     Serve  warm. 


CHAPTER  XXXVII 
JUST   THE   TWO    OF   THEM 

ffTT  seems  good  to  be  alone  this  evening,  doesn't  it,  Bet- 

-*-  tina?"  said  Bob,  as  they  sat  down  to  dinner.  "Or  are 
you  growing  so  accustomed  to  gaiety  lately  that  a  dinner  for 
two  is  a  bore?" 

"Bob!"  said  Bettina  reproachfully.  "If  I  thought  you  really 
believed  that  I  was  ever  bored  by  a  dinner  for  the  two  of 
us, — well,  I'd  never  be  in  a  wedding  party  again !  Alice  likes 
excitement,  and  I  suppose  that  next  week  will  be  very  gay,  but 
after  the  wedding  I  hope  that  you  and  I  can  have  a  quiet 
winter,  with  just  invitations  enough  to  keep  us  from  becoming 
too  stupid." 

"But  tell  me  what  the  wedding  will  be  like.  Is  it  all  planned 
down  to  the  last  detail?  I  suppose  it  is,  although  Harry 
doesn't  seem  to  have  any  idea  what  it  is  to  be." 

"Poor  Harry,  he  seems  to  be  left  out  of  most  of  the  showers 
and  parties  so  far." 

"Don't  pity  him;  he  wouldn't  go  if  he  could.  I'm  just 
wondering  what  they'll  do  after  the  wedding.  Will  Alice 
go  and  Harry  stay  at  home  ?  Or,  will  he  be  obliging  and  force 
himself  to  go,  too?" 

"I  don't  know,  I'm  sure.  Alice  is  so  full  of  life  that  I  don't 
see  how  she  can  settle  down  and  never  go  anywhere,  as  Harry 
would  have  her.  But  time  will  tell.  Perhaps  they'll  compro- 
mise. Meanwhile,  we  must  plan  some  sort  of  a  shower  or 
prenuptial  party  that  Harry  can  enjoy,  too.  One  with  the  men 
included,  1  mean.     Of  course,  I  know  he  hates  parties,  but  I 

129 


130     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

think  he  would  really  like  a  very  jolly  informal  one  with  just 
a  few  friends  I" 

The  dinner  for  two  consisted  of: 

Cold  Sliced  Lamb  Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots  and  Peas 

Bread  Butter 

Apple  Dumplings 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Creamed   Carrots  and  Peas   (Three  portions) 

y2  C-cooked,  diced        y2  t-salt 

carrots  1  T-butter 

l/2  C-peas  1  T-flour 

y2  C-milk 

Melt  the  butfter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  gradually  add  the 
milk.  Cook  two  minutes.  Add  the  peas  and  carrots.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Apple  Dumpling  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-flour  1  T-lard 

1  t-baking  powder  2  T-milk 

%  t-salt  2  apples 

4  T-sugar  y2  t-cinnamon 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder  and  salt,  cut  in  the  lard  with 
a  knife.  Add  the  liquid,  mixing  to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  on  a 
v/ell  floured  board  to  one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Wash,  pare  and  quarter  the  apples.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Cut  the  dough  in  five  inch  squares ;  place  two 
quarters  of  apple  in  the  center  of  a  square ;  moisten  the  edges 
of  the  dough  with  water  and  bring  the  four  corners  together 
around  the  apple.  Place  in  a  tin  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  apples  are  soft.  (About  thirty  minutes.)  Serve 
warm  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII 

A   LUNCHEON    IN    THE    COUNTRY 

ff/^H,  Charlotte,  I've  just  come  from  the  loveliest  lunch- 
_\J  eon,"  said  Bettina,  coming  face  to  face  with  Mrs. 
Dixon  in  front  of  her  own  home. 

"You  have?    Another  for  Alice?" 

"No,  this  was  in  the  country — on  the  interurban,  at  Cousin 
Kate's.  Frances,  her  daughter,  who  was  married  last  spring, 
has  come  home  on  a  visit,  and  Cousin  Kate  was  entertaining 
for  her." 

"Tell  me  about  it !" 

"Oh,  it  was  just  an  informal  luncheon,  but  I  couldn't  help 
thinking  how  delicious  everything  was,  and  at  the  same  time 
inexpensive.  In  fact,  I  wrote  down  several  of  Cousin  Kate's 
recipes  after  the  guests  had  gone,  and  I'm  sure  that  there 
aren't  many  such  inexpensive  luncheons  that  are  also  so  good." 

"You  must  let  me  have  some  of  the  recipes." 

"Of  course  I  will.     Come  in  now,  and  copy  them." 

"I  can't  possibly,  Bettina.  As  it  is,  I'm  afraid  that  Frank 
will  be  home  before  I  am.     It's  almost  six  o'clock  now." 

"Is  it?  Then  I  must  hurry  in  and  start  dinner;  I  want  to 
make  some  muffins.  I  hate  to  have  Bob  eat  a  cold  dinner 
just  because  I've  been  out  in  the  afternoon ;  in  fact,  I  usually 
spend  more  time  than  usual  in  the  morning  fixing  some  dessert 
that  he  especially  likes,  if  I'm  to  be  out  in  the  afternoon. 
Good-bye,  Charlotte !" 

"Good-bye,  dear !" 

The  luncheon  menu  was  as  follows : 


131 


132     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Pepper  Cases 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Croutons 

Cheese  Timbales  Creamed  Peas 

Baked  Apples 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit 

Green  Bean  Salad  Salted  Wafers 

Lemon  Sherbet  Devil's  Food  White  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

'K~7i  measurements  are  lever) 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Pepper  Cases  (Six  portions) 

6  green  peppers  I  T-lemon  juice 

i  pint  oysters  I  T-horseradish 

5  T-tomato  catsup     y2  t-salt 
l/2  t-tabasco  sauce 

Cut  the  stem  end  from  the  sweet  green  peppers.  Remove 
the  seeds  and  allow  to  stand  in  iced  water.  Pick  over  the 
oysters  to  remove  any  shells,  and  surround  with  chipped  ice 
until  ready  to  serve.  Mix  the  catsup,  lemon  juice,  horse 
radish,  salt  and  tobasco  sauce.  Fill  each  pepper  with  four 
oysters,  and  put  on  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  the  top. 
Serve  very  cold. 

Cheese  Timbales  (Six  portions) 

i  T-butter  ^  t-paprika 

i  T-flour  %  C-fresh,  soft  bread  crumbs 

y  C-milk  J4  C-grated  American  cheese 

y2  t-salt  i  egg 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
gradually  add  the  milk,  cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  Cook  three 
minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Butter  six 
timbale  moulds  well.  Place  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Allow  to  stand 
three  minutes,  and  remove  from  the  moulds.  Serve  hot  with 
creamed  peas. 

Bettina's  Green  String  Bean  Salad   (Six  portions) 

i  C-cooked  green  beans  i  t-salt 

%  C-cut  celery  %  t-paprika 

K  C-pimento,  cut  fine  x/2  C-salad  dressing 

i  hard-cooked  egg,  diced  6  pieces  of  lettuce 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  133 

Mix  thoroughly  the  beans,  celery,  pimento,  egg,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  salad  dressing  and  serve  on  a  piece  of  crisp 
lettuce. 

Devil's  Food  Cake   (Twenty-four  pieces) 

2  C-brown  sugar  3  squares  chocolate 

1  C-milk  2  C-flour 
*4  C-butter  1  t-soda 

2  eggs  1  t-vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar.  Mix  egg  yolks,  the 
other  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk  and  chocolate;  cook  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  cool,  add  this  to  the  first 
mixture.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  vanilla,  the  flour  and  soda 
sifted  together.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Fill  two  tin  pans  prepared  with  waxed  paper,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cool,  ice  with 
white  icing. 


CHAPTER  XXXIX 
A   "PAIR   SHOWER"   FOR  ALICE 

WHEN  Bettina  called  the  girls  into  the  dining-room  after 
several  hours  spent  in  hemming  dish  towels  for  Alice, 
they  exclaimed  that  the  time  had  passed  so  quickly.  The 
table  was  set  for  twelve,  and  the  chair  at  the  right  of  the 
hostess  was  gaily  decorated  with  white  ribbon  and  white  paper 
flowers. 

"Oh,  for  me?"  cried  Alice.  "How  important  I  feel!,, 
As  soon  as  the  girls  were  seated,  Ruth  rose  and  placed  be- 
fore the  guest  of  honor  a  large  wicker  basket  heaped  high 
with  packages  of  all  shapes  and  sizes,  each  wrapped  in  white 
tissue  paper  and  tied  with  white  ribbon.  A  card  hung  from 
the  handle  of  the  basket.     "I'll  read  it  aloud !"  laughed  Alice. 

"Dear  Alice,  we  have  tried  to  choose 
Some  gifts  for  you  that  come  by  twos. 

A  few,  perhaps,  you'll  often  use, 
While  some  may  comfort  and  amuse, 

If  you  should  chance  to  get  the  blues, 

When  household  cares  your  mind  confuse. 

"This  basket,  which  our  blessing  bears, 

Besides  the  gifts  that  come  in  pairs, 
Our  friendship  and  our  love  declares. 

'Twill  share  your  troubles  and  your  cares 
And  hold  the  hose  that  Harry  wears. 

So  keep  them  free  from  holes  and  tears." 

"Goodness !"  cried  Alice.    "The  thought  of  my  future  cares 

134 


With  Bettina  s  Best  Recipes  135 

frightens  me !  But  now  I  must  open  all  the  packages !" 
She  discovered  a  salt  and  pepper  shaker,  a  pair  of  guest 
towels,  a  pair  of  hose,  a  sugar  bowl  and  a  creamer,  and  many 
other  gifts  in  pairs.  It  was  a  long  time  before  the  girls  could 
calm  down  sufficiently  to  eat  the  luncheon  that  Bettina,  with 
Ruth's  assistance,  set  before  them. 
Bettina  served: 

Bettina's  Tuna  Salad 

Date  Bread   Sandwiches  Salted  Peanuts 

Maple  Ice  Cream        White  Cake  with  Maple  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Tuna  Salad   (Twelve  portions) 

2  C-tuna  fish  4  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

2  C-diced  celery  2  t-salt 

3  hard-cooked  eggs,  diced  J/2  t-paprika 

3  T-green  pepper,  chopped  fine       1  T-lemon  juice 

4  T-sweet  pickle,  chopped  fine       1  C-salad   dressing 

Mix  the  tuna,  celery,  eggs,  sweet  pickle,  pepper,  salt  and 
paprika  with  a  silver  fork.  (Care  should  always  be  taken  not 
to  mash  salads.)  Add  the  salad  dressing;  more  than  a  cup 
may  be  necessary.  Keep  very  cold,  and  serve  attractively  on 
a  lettuce  leaf. 

Salad  Dressing   (Twelve  portions) 

4  egg-yolks  1  t-mustard 

]/2  C-vinegar         4  T-sugar 

l/2  C-water  Y\  t-paprika 

1  t-salt  2  T-flour 

Beat  the  tgg  yolks,  add  the  vinegar.  Mix  the  salt,  mustard, 
sugar,  paprika  and  flour  thoroughly.  Slowly  add  the  water, 
taking  care  not  to  let  the  mixture  get  lumpy.  Pour  into  the 
yolks  and  vinegar.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  thick 
and  creamy.     Thin  with  sour  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Date  Bread  (Eighteen  Sandwiches) 

1  C-graham  flour  2  t-salt 

2  C-white  flour  1/3  pound  of  dates,  cut  fine 

3  t-baking    powder  il/2   C-milk 
1/3  C-"C"  sugar  1  egg 


136     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder,  sugar,  salt  and  dates  ground 
fine.  Beat  the  egg  with  a  fork,  and  add  the  milk.  Pour 
slowly  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour 
into  two  well-buttered  bread  pans.  Allow  to  stand  fifteen 
minutes  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
cold,  cut  very  thin  and  spread  with  butter  for  sandwiches. 
Date  bread  is  better  for  sandwiches  when  one  day  old. 

Maple  Icing 

ll/2  C-maple  sugar  2/3  C-milk 

1/4  C-granulated  sugar         1  t-butter 
%  t-cream  of  tartar 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  together  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed 
when  a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Beat  until  creamy 
enough  to  pour  on  the  cake. 

Salted  Peanuts   (Twelve  portions) 

2/3  lb.  peanuts  (shelled)     4  T-olive  oil 
2  t-salt 

Cover  the  peanuts  with  boiling  water;  allow  to  stand  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Place  one-third  of  the  amount  in  a  strainer 
(allowing  remainder  to  stay  in  water)  and  remove  the  skins. 
Prepare  all  the  peanuts  the  same  way.  Place  two  tablespoons 
of  oil  in  the  frying  pan,  when  hot  add  the  peanuts;  stir  con- 
stantly with  a  fork  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  fifteen  min- 
utes. When  brown  remove  the  nuts,  add  another  tablespoon 
of  oil  and  another  third  of  the  peanuts,  continue  until  all  the 
nuts  are  cooked.  Add  the  salt.  Lard  may  be  used  in  place 
of  oil,  but  the  latter  makes  the  nuts  taste  and  brown  better. 


CHAPTER  XL 
BOB    MAKES    POPCORN    BALLS 

f  f /^\H,  I  forgot  to  tell  you,  Bettina,"  said  Bob  at  the  dinner 

^-^  table,  "the  Dixons  are  coming  over  this  evening. 
Frank  asked  me  if  we  would  be  at  home." 

"I'm  so  glad  they're  coming,"  said  Bettina.  "I  haven't  seen 
Charlotte  for  several  weeks;  I  have  been  so  busy  with  the 
affairs  we  girls  have  been  giving  for  Alice.  But  I  wish  I  had 
known  this  afternoon  that  they  were  coming.  I'd  like  to 
celebrate  with  a  little  supper,  but  I  haven't  a  single  thing  in 
the  house  that  is  suitable." 

•There's  the  cider  that  Uncle  John  brought  us,"  suggested 
Bob. 

"Yes,"  said  Bettina,  "we  might  have  cider.     But  what  else  ?" 

"I'll  tell  you,"  said  Bob,  "I'll  make  some  popcorn  balls.  I've 
made  them  before,  and  I  know  exactly  how." 

"I'll  help,"  said  Bettina. 

"No,  I  won't  need  you  at  all ;  I'm  the  chef." 

"Well,  Bobbie,  at  least  you'll  let  me  look  on.  May  I  be 
washing  the  dishes  at  the  same  time?" 

"Yes,  I'll  permit  that.  These  are  going  to  be  champion 
popcorn  balls,  I  can  tell  you,  Bettina — as  big  as  pumpkins!" 

"We'll  serve  them  in  that  large  flat  wicker  basket,  and  I'm 
sure  they'll  look  and  taste  delicious.  But  we  must  hurry, 
Bob;  it's  after  seven  now!" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had: 

Broiled  Ham  Mashed  Potatoes 

Chili  Sauce  Creamed  Onions  Hot  Scones 

Prune  Blanc  Mange  with  Cream 

137 


138      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Broiled  Ham   (Four  portions) 

i  lb.  ham    2  C-milk 

Soak  a  one-half  inch  slice  of  ham  in  one  cup  of  lukewarm 
milk  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  hot 
tin  pan  and  cook  for  five  minutes  directly  under  the  flame, 
turning  frequently  to  prevent  burning. 

Scones  (Fourteen  scones) 

2  C-flour  1  egg 

4  t-baking  powder2/3  C-milk 
1/3  t-salt  1  T-"C"  sugar 

2  T-lard  J/2  t-cinnamon 

Mix  the  flour,  baking-powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  lard  with 
a  knife,  add  all  but  one  teaspoonful  of  the  beaten  egg,  then 
add  the  milk  gradually.  Mix  with  a  knife  into  a  soft  dough. 
Pat  into  a  square  shape  one-half  inch  thick.  Brush  over  the 
top  with  one  teaspoonful  of  egg  and  sprinkle  with  the  sugar 
and  cinnamon  (mixed  thoroughly).  Cut  into  one  and  one- 
half  inch  squares.  Place  in  a  tin  pan  and  bake  twelve  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Prune  Blanc  Mange  (Four  portions) 

2  T-cornstarch  l/i  t-salt 

2  T-sugar  ]/2  C-cooked,  cut  prunes 

4  T-cold  milk  y2  t-lemon  extract 

2/3  C-hot  milk  y2  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt,  and  add  the  cold  milk 
slowly.  Gradually  add  the  hot  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  prunes,  lemon  extract  and  vanilla. 
Beat  well,  and  serve  cold  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  XLI 

AND  WHERE  WAS  THE  DINNER? 

ii  TJ  ELLO !"  called  Bob  at  the  door  one  evening. 
11        No  answer. 

"Hello,  Bettina!"  he  called  again.  Again  the  dark  house 
gave  forth  no  reply. 

Feeling,  it  must  be  admitted,  a  little  out  of  harmony  with  a 
world  that  allowed  weary  and  hungry  husbands  to  come  home 
to  dark  and  empty  houses  when  the  clock  said  plainly  that  it 
was  a  quarter  after  six,  Bob  made  his  way  to  the  kitchen. 
Perhaps  Bettina  had  left  his  dinner  there  for  him;  perhaps 
she  had  been  called  away,  or  perhaps,  even,  she  had  rushed 
out  on  some  errand  after  dinner  preparations  were  begun. 
The  kitchen,  however,  was  -so  immaculate  as  to  seem  distinctly 
forbidding  to  a  hungry  man  whose  appetite  was  growing 
keener  every  minute.  And  he  had  been  thinking  all  the  way 
home  that  a  hot  dinner  would  taste  so  good ! 

At  that  moment  a  clamor  of  voices  at  the  door  aroused  him. 

"You  poor  old  Bob !"  cried  Bettina,  kissing  him  twice  before 
Fred  and  Ruth  without  the  least  embarrassment.  "Have  you 
waited  long?" 

"It  seemed  hours,"  admitted  Bob. 

"Ruth  and  I  have  been  to  a  tea  for  Alice.  Fred  came  for 
her  there,  and  I  persuaded  them  to  come  home  to  dinner  with 
me.  I'll  give  you  each  something  to  do  while  I  stirr  up  a  little 
cottage  pudding.    Then  dinner  will  be  ready  in  half  an  hour." 

"Half  an  hour?"  cried  Bob.  "But,  Bettina,  where  is  the 
dinner?     I  didn't  see  any!" 

"In  the  fireless  cooker,  you  crazy  boy!  Are  you  'most 
starved?" 

139 


140     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Well,"  said  Bob,  "that  cooker  was  the  neatest,  stiffest- 
looking  thing  in  the  kitchen!  I  didn't  dream  that  it  was 
busily  cooking  a  dinner.  Say,  I'll  be  glad  to  see  a  hot  meal 
again !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Round  Steak  with  Vegetables 

Dutch  Cheese 

Bread  Plum  Butter 

Cottage   Pudding  Vanilla  Sauce 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Round  Steak  with  Vegetables  (Six  portions) 

2  lbs.    round   steak       2  T-flour 
6  potatoes  2  T-lard 

6  carrots  2  t-salt 

6  onions  %  t-paprika 

H  C-water 

Pound  the  flour  into  the  round  steak  with  the  edge  of  a 
small  plate.  This  breaks  the  fibers  of  the  meat,  making  it 
more  tender.  Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  slicing  in  half 
lengthwise.  Scrape  the  carrots,  and  cut  into  one-half  inch 
slices  lengthwise.  Wash  the  onions  and  remove  their  outside 
skins.  Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  one  and  a  half  level  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  and  the  paprika.  Add  the  water,  and  place  in 
the  bottom  of  the  large  fireless  cooker  utensil.  Place  the  lard 
in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  thor- 
oughly on  each  side.  Salt  the  meat  with  one-half  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  place  in  the  kettle  on  top  of  the  vegetables. 
Place  the  heated  disks  of  the  fireless  cooker  over  and  under 
the  utensil,  and  cook  at  least  one  hour  in  the  cooker. 

Cottage  Pudding   (Six  portions) 


iH  C-flour 

1  egg 

3  t-baking  powder 

y2  C-milk 

YA  t-salt 

y2  t-vanilla 

Yz  C-sugar 

3  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  the  egg, 
milk  and  vanilla,  and  beat  one  minute.  Add  the  melted  butter, 
and  pour  into  a  well  buttered  tin  pan.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  warm  with  vanilla  sauce. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  141 

Vanilla  Sauce  (Six  portions) 

2/3  C-sugar  y2  t-lemon  extract 

3  T-flour  yA  t-salt 

1  t-vanilla        il/2  C-water 
1  t-butter 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt  thoroughly.  Add  the  water 
slowly.  Boil  two  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla,  lemon  extract, 
and  butter.  Beat  one  minute  and  serve.  If  too  thick,  more 
water  may  be  added. 


CHAPTER    XLII 
ALICE   TELLS    HER   TROUBLES 

**  A  ND  the  minute  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  you,  Bettina,  at 

-**■  the  tea  this  afternoon,  I  thought,  'Oh,  if  Betty  would 
only  ask  me  to  go  home  with  her  to  a  sensible  homelike  din- 
ner, with  no  one  there  but  herself  and  Bob '  " 

"Not  even  Harry,  Alice?" 

"No,  not  even  Harry !  I'm  so  sick  and  tired  of  teas  and 
dressmakers  and  wedding  gowns  and  bridesmaids  that  Fm 
tired  even  of  Harry,  too !     Almost." 

"But,  Alice,  then  why  do  it  all  ?  Why  have  all  this  fuss  and 
feathers?"  And  Bettina's  knife,  with  which  she  was  cutting 
bread,  came  down  with  a  click  of  vehemence.  "It  has  always 
seemed  silly  to  me — all  the  worry  and  bother " 

"But  what  can  I  do  now,  Bettina?  I've  started,  and  I'll 
have  to  go  through  with  it !  Why,  even  now,  I  ought  to  be 
home  for  dinner — mother  has  several  guests — but  I  phoned 
her  that  I  had  a  headache  and  was  coming  here,  where  I 
could  be  quiet.  And  I  do  have  a  headache — and  no  appetite, 
and " 

"Just  wait  till  you  taste  this  nice  brown  meat  that  I  have 
in  the  oven,  Alice !  The  trouble  with  you  is  that  you've  been 
eating  silly  party  food  for  such  a  long  time.  And  tonight 
you  are  to  have  a  sensible  dinner  with  plain  people." 

"Plain  people?  Who  calls  me  plain?"  interrupted  Bob,  com- 
ing in  like  a  tornado.  "Hello,  Alice!  How  can  you  spare 
any  time  from  all  these  festivities  I  hear  about?" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 


142 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  L43 

Rolled   Flank  of  Beef  with   Bread  Dressing 

Browned  Potatoes  Hot  Slaw 

Prune  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Rolled   Flank   of   Beef    (Four   portions) 

1  lb.  round  steak  one  inch  thick     I  t-salt 

2  T-flour  2  one-inch  cubes  of  suet 

Wipe  the  meat,  trim  the  edges,  pound  on  both  sides  with 
the  edge  of  a  plate  to  break  the  tendon.  Place  the  dressing 
(given  below)  on  the  steak,  roll,  and  tie  with  a  cord.  Roll 
in  the  flour  and  salt.  Place  in  a  small  dripping  pan,  put  the 
suet  on  the  top  of  the  meat,  add  enough  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifty 
minutes.     Baste  frequently. 

Bread  Dressing 

i  C-soft  bread  crumbs  %  t-celery  salt 

i  T-melted  butter  */2  t-sak 

i  t-chopped  parsley  %  t-pepper 

y2  t-chopped  onion  2  T-water 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named,  stirring  lightly 
with  a  fork.  Place  in  shape  on  the  meat.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  have  the  dressing  soggy  or  heavy. 

Prune   Pudding    (Four   portions) 

1  C-cooked,   seeded  and       1  t-vanilla 
chopped    prunes 
Y$  C-sugar 

54   C-nut   meats,   cut   fine       1  t-baking  powder 
y2   C-milk  y&  t-salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Pour  into  a 
well-buttered  shallow  earthenware  dish.  Place  the  dish  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven,  or  until  the  mixture  is  firm.  Serve  warm.  Individual 
amounts  may  be  made  in  moulds. 


CHAPTER   XLIII 
THE  DIXONS  COME  TO  DINNER 

*</^HARLOTTE,  you  must  have  Bettina  tell  you  how  to 

^■^   cook  fish  this  way,"  said  Frank. 

"It's  the  Bechamel  sauce  on  it  that  you  like,  I  suspect,"  said 
Bettina.  "And  it  isn't  at  all  hard  to  make.  I  serve  it  with 
so  many  things.     We  like  it  with  carrots " 

"Oh,  is  it  the  very  same  sauce  that  you  serve  with  carrots?" 
said  Charlotte.  "I  can  make  it,  Frank.  I'll  have  it  for  din- 
ner one  of  these  days,  with  halibut,  just  as  Bettina  has  served 
it  tonight." 

"There  is  only  one  thing  to  think  about  especially  in  making 
it,"  said  Bettina.  "After  you  have  beaten  the  egg  slightly,  add 
a  very  little  of  the  hot  liquid  to  it,  and  then  pour  the  mixture 
into  the  rest.  Then  cook  it  a  short  time,  not  long,  as  a  sauce 
made  with  egg  sometimes  separates." 

"I'll  remember,"  said  Charlotte.  "You  do  have  such  good 
meals,  Bettina.  How  do  you  manage  it?  Sometimes  I  can 
think  of  the  best  things  to  cook,  and  other  days  I  don't  seem 
to  have  a  bit  of  imagination !" 

"I  plan  my  menu  all  out  a  week,  and  sometimes  two  weeks, 
ahead,"  said  Bettina.  "It  is  really  quite  a  complicated  process, 
as  I  want  to  have  a  variety,  as  well  as  inexpensive  things  that 
are  on  the  market.  Of  course,  I  may  change  my  plans  in 
many  details,  but  I  keep  to  the  general  outline.  Planning  the 
meals  seems  simple,  but  it  really  requires  a  lot  of  thinking 
sometimes.  Excuse  me  while  I  bring  in  the  dessert.  Bob,  will 
you  please  help  me  take  the  plates?" 

The  menu  that  night  consisted  of: 


144 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  H5 

Sauted    Halibut   Steak  Bechamel    Sauce 

Potato  Cubes  Butter  Sauce 

Sliced  Cucumbers  and  Onions  with  Vinegar 

Rolls  Butter 

Prune  Whip  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bechamel  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter      1/3  t-salt 
2  T-flour  Y%  t-paprika 

\y2  C-milk  1  egg-yolk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well, 
and  gradually  add  the  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  (Not  as 
thick  as  white  sauce  for  vegetables.)  Add  the  egg  yolk. 
Serve  immediately. 

To  add  egg  yolk  to  the  hot  liquid,  beat  the  egg  slightly,  add 
a  small  portion  of  the  hot  liquid  slowly  and  pour  it  all  into 
the  remainder  of  the  hot  liquid.  Cook  only  a  short  time,  as 
the  mixture  may  separate  if  cooked  longer. 

Potato  Cubes  (Four  portions) 

2  C-raw  potatoes  cut     JA  t-salt 

in  24-inch  cubes  4  C-boiling  water 

Add  the  salt  to  the  boiling  water,  add  the  potatoes  and  boil 
till  tender.  (About  ten  minutes.)  Drain  and  shake  over  the 
fire  for  a  moment.     Add  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

Butter  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter  1  t-chopped  green  pepper 

1  T-chopped   parsley     %  t-paprika 

Mix  together,  heat  and  add  to  the  potatoes. 

Prune  Whip  (Four  portions) 

1/3  lb.  prunes         1  T-lemon  juice 
3  egg-whites     l/2  C-sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  prunes,  then  soak  for  several  hours 
in  cold  water,  enough  to  cover.    Cook  slowly  until  soft,  about 


146     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

fifteen  minutes.  Rub  through  a  strainer.  Add  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  and  cook  five  minutes ;  the  mixture  should  be  the 
consistency  of  marmalade. 

Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  add  the  prunes  when  cold,  pile 
lightly  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   XLIV 
THE  WEDDING   INVITATIONS 

BOB  and  Bettina  had  scarcely  sat  down  to  dinner  one  crisp 
cold  evening,  when  they  heard  laughing  voices  at  the 
door.  "It  sounds  like  Alice/'  said  Bettina.  "What  can  she 
be  up  to  now  ?    And  Harry,  too !" 

Bob  had  already  thrown  open  the  door,  and  there,  as  Bettina 
had  guessed,  were  Alice  and  Harry,  each  carrying  a  large  box. 

"We've  come  to  deliver  your  invitation  to  the  wedding,"  said 
Alice.  "It  may  be  unconventional,  but  it's  fun.  The  rest  we 
are  going  down  to  mail — that  is,  if  we  don't  get  frightened  at 
the  idea,  and  pitch  the  boxes  in  the  river  instead." 

"If  that's  the  way  you  feel,"  said  Harry  firmly,  "I'll  carry 
your  box  myself." 

"Please  don't,  Harry!  Just  think,  I  may  never  have  an- 
other opportunity  of  mailing  the  invitations  to  my  own  wed- 
ding, so  don't  deprive  me  of  the  privilege." 

"Stay  to  dinner  won't  you?"  said  Bettina.  "We  had  really 
planned  on  having  Uncle  John  and  Aunt  Mary  this  evening, 
but  they  didn't  come  to  town  after  all.  So  I  am  sure  we  have 
plenty,  even  to  apple  dumplings  for  dessert." 

"Harry  had  asked  me  to  take  dinner  with  him  down  town," 
said  Alice,  "by  way  of  celebrating  when  these  invitations  were 
mailed.  But  perhaps  we  might  stay  here  instead,  since  this 
was  the  very  place  in  which  we  met  first!  Harry,  I  believe 
sentiment  demands  that  we  accept  Bettina's  invitation." 

"I  must  broil  another  steak,"  said  Bettina,  "but  that  will 
take  only  a  few  minutes.     I'm  so  glad  you  can  stay." 

"But  we'll  have  to  leave  immediately  after  dinner,"  said 


147 


148     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Alice,  "for  these  invitations  simply  must  be  mailed  this  eve- 
ning." 

That  night  for  dinner,  Bettina  served: 

Beefsteak  Mashed  Potatoes 

Turnips 

Lettuce  Bettina's  Russian  Salad  Dressing 

Apple  Dumplings  and  Cream 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Turnips  (Four  portions) 

4  turnips         %  t-salt 
I  T-butter      %  t-pepper 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  the  turnips  in  small  pieces.  Cook  until 
transparent  and  tender.  Drain,  mash,  add  the  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  thoroughly  and  return  to  the  fire  to  dry  out  the 
superfluous  water.  Serve  hot  with  vinegar.  (Never  cook 
turnips  until  brown.) 

Head  Lettuce  (Four  portions) 
i  head  lettuce 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  and  core  of  the  lettuce.  Clean 
thoroughly.  Place  very  wet  in  a  towel,  wrap  well  and  lay 
directly  on  the  ice.  Allow  to  stand  one  hour  before  serving  to 
allow  the  lettuce  to  get  very  cold  and  crisp. 

Bettina's  Russian  Dressing    (Four  portions) 

y2  C-salad    dressing     2  T-chili  sauce 
i  T-chopped  green   pepper 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Shake  thoroughly 
in  a  glass  jar.     Serve  cold. 

Apple  Dumplings   (Four  portions) 

i  C-flour  1/3  C-water 

2  t-baking  powder        4  apples 
%  t-salt  H  C-sugar 

2  T-lard  1  t-cinnamon 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut 
in  the  lard  with  a  knife,  and  then  add  the  water,  mixing  to  a 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  149 

soft  dough.  Roll  on  a  well-floured  board  to  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Wipe  and  pare  the  apples,  and  cut  them 
in  quarters. 

Cut  the  dough  in  four  square  pieces.  Place  four  quarters 
of  apple  in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  dough.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Moisten  the  edges  of  the  dough  with 
water.  Bring  the  four  corners  of  each  piece  up  around  the 
apple,  pressing  tightly  together.  Pierce  with  a  fork  to  allow 
the  escape  of  steam.  Place  each  dumpling  upside  down  on  a 
floured  tin,  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  warm  with  cream. 


CHAPTER  XLV 

HALLOWE'EN  PREPARATIONS 

it*  I  *HERE  it  is  again!"  said  Bob  to  Ruth,  who  was  dining 
■*■      with  them.     "And  now  it's  gone!" 

"I  feel  the  same  old  Hallowe'en  thrill  that  I  used  to,  years 
ago,"  said  Bettina,  "when  I  turn  around  suddenly  and  see  a 
jack-o'-lantern  grinning  in  at  the  window !  Don't  you  love 
them?" 

"Those  are  the  Stewart  children,"  said  Bob.  "They're  just 
hoping  that  I'll  come  out  and  chase  them  away!  There's  no 
fun  for  them  in  having  us  like  it  too  well!  You  girls  ought 
to  give  at  least  an  imitation  of  a  shriek  apiece.  You  don't 
have  ladylike  nerves  at  all!" 

"Bob,  that  jack-o'-lantern  reminds  me  that  we  have  a  piece 
of  work  laid  out  for  you — making  the  jack-o'-lanterns  for  a 
Hallowe'en  party  we  have  planned.     Will  you  do  it?" 

"Will  I?"  said  Bob.  "Indeed  I  will!  I  haven't  made  one 
for  years  and  years !    Not  since  I  was  a  boy !" 

"Years  and  years  and  years  and  years !"  said  Ruth,  laugh- 
ing. "Well,  this  party  is  in  honor  of  Harry,  so  you  mustn't 
tell  him  anything  about  it — not  even  that  we're  giving  it.  And 
Bob,  I  believe  Fred  would  help  make  the  jack-o'-lanterns." 

"See  here,  Ruth,"  said  Bob,  "you  want  Fred  to  get  half  the 
credit  for  the  artistic  job  I'm  going  to  do.  Well,  for  your 
sake,  I  may  let  him  help  a  little,  but  I'm  bossing  the  work,  I 
can  tell  you.     Why,  I'm  particular." 

That  evening's  menu  consisted  of : 


150 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  151 

Breaded  Lamb   Chops  Baked  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Sliced  Tomatoes  Salad  Dressing 

Steamed  Date  Pudding  Lemon  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops  (Four  portions) 

4  chops  l/2   C-bread  crumbs 

i  egg-yolk     y2  t-salt 
i  T-water        i  T-butter 

Wash  and  look  over  the  chops  carefully  to  remove  any 
particles  of  bone.  Beat  the  egg  yolk  and  water.  Dip  each 
chop  into  the  egg  mixture,  and  then  roll  in  the  crumbs,  to  which 
the  salt  has  been  added.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  dot  well 
with  butter,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Steamed  Date  Pudding 

2/3  C-soft,  fresh  bread  crumbs      I  egg 

2/3  C-flour  2/3  C-dates,  chopped  fine 

2  t-baking  powder  y2  t-salt 

2/3  C-fine  chopped  suet  I  t-vanilla 

2/3  C-sugar  2/3  C-milk 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Stir  well  for 
two  minutes,  and  place  in  a  buttered  mould.  Steam  two  hours 
on  the  stove  or  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Serve  hot  with  lemon 
sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce 

y2  C-sugar  2  T-lemon  juice 

1  T-flour        y8  t-salt 
1  C-water        i  t-butter 

Mix  well  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  add  the  water  and  cook 
for  one  minute.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  butter.  Beat  vigor- 
ously, and  serve  with  the  date  pudding. 


CHAPTER  XLVI 

HALLOWE'EN  REVELS 

"Come,  on  mystic  Hallowe'en, 
Let  us  seek  the  dreadful  scene, 
Where  the  witches,  imps  and  devils, 
Elves  and  ghosts  will  hold  their  revels ! 
1 107  Carberry  Avenue. 
Seven  o'clock." 

THIS  was  the  invitation  received  by  Harry,  Alice,  Fred 
and  even  Bob,  who  had  an  inkling  of  what  was  about  to 
happen,  inasmuch  as  1107  Carberry  Avenue  happened  to  be  his 
own  address.  At  seven  o'clock  that  evening  Bob  was  no- 
where to  be  found.  However,  when  four  horribly  disguised 
figures  were  ushered  into  the  house,  the  witch  who  pointed 
the  way  up  the  stairs  seemed  satisfied.  A  few  minutes  later, 
the  ghosts  and  demons  having  removed  such  garments  as  were 
needed  only  in  the  outer  air,  assembled  in  the  weirdly  lighted 
living-room.  All  of  the  electric  lights  were  covered  with  yel- 
low crepe  paper  shades,  with  faces  cut  in  them.  Jack-o'- 
lanterns  stood  in  every  conceivable  place,  and  a  fire  burned 
brightly  in  the  open  fireplace. 

The  two  witches,  who  were  evidently  the  hostesses,  com- 
menced a  weird  chant  in  a  minor  key.  The  male  ghosts,  three 
in  number,  immediately  took  up  the  music,  if  it  could  be  so 
called,  howling  in  loud  and  uncanny  tones.  Thereupon  the 
witches  beckoned  the  whole  company  with  all  speed  to  the 
dining-room. 

The  table  was  a  mass  of  color  and  light.  Potatoes,  carrots 
and  beets,  with  sticks  for  legs,  held  the  lighted  candles.  At 
each  place  were  individual  favors,  witches  holding  the  place 
cards,  and  small  Jack-o'-lanterns  standing  beside  them.     The 


152 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  153 

center  of  the  table  was  a  miniature  field  of  pumpkins  and  corn- 
stalks. 

The  place  cards  were  read  and  the  places  were  found.  The 
guest  of  honor,  he  who  sat  at  the  right  of  her  who  was  evi- 
dently "witch-in-charge,"  discovered  the  following  on  his  card, 
and  the  others  were  equally  descriptive  and  illuminating: 

This  place  is  laid  for  one  who  soon 

Will  marry ! 
O  youth  bewitched  by  maid  and  moon, 

Be  wary ! 
But  if  you  can't,  then  make  it  soon, 

Dear  Harry ! 

The  supper,  decorative  as  well  as  delicious,  was  all  upon  the 
table.  Little  individual  pumpkin  pies  on  paper  doilies  stood 
beside  each  place.  The  salad  caused  much  delight  among  the 
guests,  who  at  the  invitation  of  the  witches,  had  now  removed 
their  masks.  A  large  red  apple  with  a  face  cut  on  the  outside, 
had  been  hollowed  out,  and  the  salad  was  within.  On  the  top 
of  the  apple  was  a  round  wafer  with  a  marshmallow  upon  it 
to  represent  a  hat.  The  hat  was  further  decorated  with  a 
"stick-up"  of  stick  candy  on  one  side.  The  apple  stood  on  a 
leaf  of  lettuce,  with  a  yellow  salad  dressing  necktie.  The 
favor  boxes,  which  were  under  the  witches,  were  filled  with 
candy  corn,  while  the  popcorn  balls,  placed  on  a  platter,  had 
features  of  chocolate  fudge,  and  bonnets  of  frilled  paper. 

The  supper  menu  was  as  follows : 

Oyster  Patties  Bettina's  Surprise   Salad 

Hallowe'en    Sandwiches  Pickles 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Cider  Doughnuts 

Jumbles  Popcorn  Balls 

"Have  ano'her  jumble,  Harry,"  urged  Ruth.  "See,  this  one 
has  unusual  e*'es  and  a  particularly  soulful  expression." 

"I  have  already  eaten  so  many  that  I  fear  my  memory  of  this 
party  will  be  a  jumble  of  faces !  I'll  see  them  in  my  sleep — 
all  with  that  soulful  expression!" 

"Another    toasted    marshmallow,    Bettina:"'    asKea    I7  red, 


154     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

thrusting  it  toward  her  on  the  end  of  a  hat-pin.  "This  candle 
is  nearly  burned  out,  so  I'm  afraid  I  can't  offer  you  any 
more." 

"It  is  really  time  to  bob  for  apples,"  said  Bettina.  "Who 
ever  heard  of  a  Hallowe'en  party  without  that !  And  we  must 
each  try  to  bite  the  swinging  doughnut,  and  then  we  must  blind- 
fold each  other  and  try  to  pin  the  tail  on  the  unfortunate  black 
cat.  Bob,  will  you  carry  this  tub  into  the  living-room?  And 
Ruth,  will  you  remove  the  popcorn  balls  to  the  piano  bench? 
Perhaps  someone  will  grow  hungry  from  the  exertion  of  these 
games.  And  I  know  that  later  in  the  evening  Alice,  though  a 
guest,  will  tell  our  fortunes." 

"Alice  can  tell  my  fortune  by  looking  at  her  own  hand,"  said 
Harry.    "Because  she  holds  my  happiness  there." 

"What  a  sentimental  sentence,  Harry !"  said  Fred,  looking 
amazed.     "See,  you've  embarrassed  us  all!" 

"Well,  I'm  always  being  called  cold  and  reserved,  and  I've 
decided  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf." 

"Oh,  Harry,  don't  be  so  foolish !"  said  Alice,  who  had  grown 
as  red  as  the  apples  on  the  table.    "It's  time  for  games !" 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 

Oyster  Patties   (Six  portions) 

3  T-butter      y2  t-salt 

4  T-flour        %  t-paprika 

I  C-milk         y2  pint  of  oysters 

Clean  the  oysters  by  removing  any  shells,  and  drain  off  the 
liquor.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Cook 
until  very  thick.  Place  the  oysters  in  a  pan  and  heat  one  min- 
ute. This  "plumps"  them.  Do  not  cook  too  long.  Add  the 
oysters  to  the  white  sauce,  and  serve  immediately  in  patty 
shells  which  have  been  freshened  in  a  hot  oven. 

Bettina's  Surprise  Salad    (Six  portions) 

6  apples  y2  C-sliced  diced  pineapple 

i  green  pepper,  chopped  fine       2  T-chopped  nut  meats 

y2  C-diced  celery  i  C-salad  dressing 

x/2  C-seeded  white  grapes  z/2  t-salt 

y2  C-diced    marshmallows 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  155 

Remove  the  insides  of  the  apples,  add  the  green  pepper, 
celery,  grapes,  marshmallows,  pineapple,  nut-meats  and  salt. 
mixed  thoroughly  with  the  salad  dressing.    Serve  very  cold. 

To  Make  the  Hallowe'en  Sandwiches 

When  the  bread  is  a  day  old,  cut  in  slices  one-third  inch 
thick.  Match  in  pairs.  Cream  the  butter  and  spread  one  side. 
Place  the  other  side  on  top.  Press  firmly.  With  a  thimble  cut 
out  circles  on  one  piece  of  the  bread,  cut  nose  and  mouth  with 
a  knife.  The  butter  showing  through  gives  the  resemblance 
to  features. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (Eight  pies) 
Crusts 

1  C-flour  3  T-water 

5  T-lard  y2  t-salt 

Cut  the  lard  into  the  flour  and  salt.  Add  sufficient  water 
to  make  a  stiff  dough  on  a  floured  board.  Roll  into  shape  one- 
fourth  inch  thick.  Place  in  tin  muffin  pans  making  individual 
pies,  filling  with  the  following  mixture  and  baking  30  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pumpkin  Filling 

iY2  C-canned   pumpkin     y2  t-ginger 
2/3  C-brown  sugar  x/2  t-salt 

1  t-cinnamon  2  eggs 

2  C-milk 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  and  fill  the  pie-crusts 
two-thirds  full. 

Jumbles  (Twenty-four  jumbles) 
y2  C-butter        y2  C-sour  milk 


i  C-sugar 

yA  t-salt 

i  egg 

About  2  C-flour 

y2  t-soda 

Grape  jelly. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  gradually  add  the  egg, 
the  soda  mixed  with  the  sour  milk,  the  salt,  and  the  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  (One  which  will  roll  easily.)  Cut  into 
shape  with  a  round  cooky  cutter.  On  the  centers  of  one-half 
the  pieces,  place  a  spoonful  of  grape  jelly.  Make  features  on 
the  rest,  using  a  thimble  to  cut  out  the  eyes.  Press  the  two 
together,  and  bake  12  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


NOVEMBER. 

Cosy  fire  a-burning  bright,- 
Cosy  tables  robed  in  white  - 


Dainty  dishes  smoking  hot, 

Home!    And  cold  and  snow  forgot! 


mmmmmmmm 


CHAPTER  XLVII 

A  FORETASTE  OF  WINTER 

"CAY,  but  it's  cold  today!" 
^  called  Bob  at  the  door. 
"Frost  tonight  all  right!  I  was 
glad  I  took  my  overcoat  this 
morning.  Have  you  had  a  fire 
all  day?" 

"Yes,  indeed,"  said  Bettina, 
"and  I've  spent  most  of  the  af- 
ternoon cleaning  my  furs  with 
corn  meal,  and  fixing  those  new 
comforters  for  the  sleeping 
porch,  and  putting  away  some  of  the  summer  clothing." 

"I  believe  we  will  need  those  new  comforters  tonight.  How 
were  you  fixing  them?" 

"I  was  basting  a  white  cheese-cloth  edge,  about  twelve  inches 
wide,  along  the  width  that  goes  at  the  head  of  the  bed,  you 
know.  It's  so  easy  to  rip  off  and  wash,  and  I  like  to  have  all 
the  comforters  fixed  that  way.  I  was  cleaning  my  old  furs, 
too,  to  cut  them  up.  I'm  planning  to  have  a  fur  edge  on  my 
suit  this  winter.  I  don't  believe  you'll  know  the  furs,  the 
suit,  or  Bettina  when  you  see  the  combination  we  will  make  to- 
gether !    Fur  is  the  thing  this  year,  you  know." 

"Couldn't  you  spare  me  a  little  to  transform  my  overcoat? 
I'd  like  to  look  different,  too !" 

"Silly !  Come  along  to  the  kitchen !  There's  beefsteak  to- 
night (won't  it  taste  good?)  and  I  want  you  to  cook  it,  while 
I'm  getting  the  other  things  on  the  table.  I  didn't  expect  you 
quite  so  soon." 


157 


158     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

That  night  for  dinner  they  had : 

Beefsteak  Creamed    Potatoes 

Devilled  Tomatoes 

Rolls  Butter 

Plum  Sauce 

Bettina's  Drop  Cookies 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Creamed  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 

I  C-diced  cooked  potatoes  i  T-flour 

i  T-green  pepper,  chopped  fine     T/2  C-milk 
i  T-butter  yA  t-salt 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  mix  well,  and  add  the 
milk  slowly.  Cook  until  creamy,  and  add  the  potatoes  and 
the  chopped  green  pepper.    Serve  very  hot. 

Devilled  Tomatoes  (Two  portions) 

2  tomatoes  l/2  t-mustard 

2  T-flour  y8  t-salt 
I  T-lard  A  pinch  of  paprika 

%  t-salt  i  hard-cooked  egg 

i  T-butter  y2  t-flour 
I  T-sugar        2  T-vinegar 
i  T-water 

Pee!  the  tomatoes,  cut  in  half  and  sprinkle  with  flour.  Place 
the  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  add  the  tomatoes. 
Brown  nicely  on  both  sides,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  When 
brown,  place  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  them  the  follow- 
ing sauce:  Sauce — Place  the  butter  in  a  pan,  add  the  sugar, 
mustard,  salt  and  paprika,  the  egg  cut  fine,  and  the  flour.  Mix 
well,  add  the  vinegar  and  water.  Heat,  allow  to  boil  one  min- 
ute, and  then  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  (If  the  sauce  seems  too 
thick  when  it  has  boiled  one  minute,  add  a  little  more  water.) 

Drop  Cookies  (Twenty-four  cookies) 

1/3  C-butter  lA  t-salt 

I  C-sugar  i  t-vanilla 

I  egg  x/\  C-chopped  raisins 

y2  C-sour  milk  2x/2  C-flour 

y*.  t-soda  y2  t-baking  powder 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  159 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  whole  egg.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  sour  milk  and  the  vanilla.  Mix  the  baking 
powder,  soda  and  flour  well,  add  the  raisins  and  add  to  the 
first  mixture.  Beat  well.  Drop  from  a  spoon  onto  a  buttered 
and  floured  pan,  leaving  three  inches  between  the  cookies. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  XLVIII 
THE  HICKORY  LOG 

ff  QAY,  this  feels  good!"  said  Bob,  as  he  warmed  his  hands 

^  by  the  cheerful  blaze. 

"Doesn't  it!"  said  Bettina,  enthusiastically.  "And  see,  I've 
set  the  dinner  table  here  by  the  fireplace.  It's  such  fun  when 
just  the  two  of  us  are  here.    Isn't  the  log  burning  well  ?" 

"I  wondered  if  we  could  use  one  of  our  new  logs  tonight — 
thought  about  it  all  the  way  home.  And  here  you  had  already 
tried  it !  November  has  turned  so  much  colder  that  I  believe 
winter  is  coming." 

"So  do  I,  but  I  don't  mind,  I  don't  want  a  warm  Thanks- 
giving." 

"Dinner  ready  ?  M — m,  what's  that  ?  Lamb  chops  ?  Escal- 
loped  potatoes  ?    Smells  good !" 

"Come  on,  dear !  After  dinner,  we'll  try  those  nuts  we  left 
so  long  out  at  Uncle  John's.  Do  you  think  they're  dry  enough 
by  this  time?  Charlotte  phoned  me  that  they  had  tried  theirs, 
and  found  them  fine.  By  the  way,  she  and  Frank  may  come 
over  this  evening." 

"Hope  they  do.    Listen — I  hear  a  car  outside  now." 

"Sure  enough,  that's  Frank  and  Charlotte.  Go  to  the  door, 
Bob !  We'll  persuade  them  to  eat  dessert  with  us.  .  .  Hello, 
people!  Come  in;  you're  just  in  time  to  have  some  tea  and  a 
ginger  drop-cake  apiece." 

"That's  what  we  came  for,  Bettina !"  shouted  Frank,  laugh- 
ing. "And  then  you  must  come  out  in  the  car  with  us.  It's 
a  beautiful,  clear,  cold  night,  and  you'll  enjoy  it — if  you  tak^ 
plenty  of  wraps!" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served: 


160 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  161 

Lamb  Chops  Escalloped  Potatoes 

Egg  Plant 

Bread  Butter 

Ginger   Drop-Cakes 

Tea 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level). 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  (Two  portions) 

2  lamb    chops     i  t-salt 
J4  t-paprika 

Wipe  the  chops  and  place  in  a  red-hot  pan  over  the  flame. 
When  the  under  surface  is  seared,  turn  and  sear  the  other  side. 
Turn  often  for  twelve  minutes.  When  nearly  cooked,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  paprika. 

Escalloped   Potatoes    (Two   portions) 

iz/2  C-raw  potatoes,  sliced     l/2  C-milk 
y2  t-salt  i  T-butter 

i  T-flour  %  t-paprika 

i  T-chopped  green   pepper 

Mix  the  potatoes,  salt,  flour,  paprika  and  green  pepper. 
Place  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  or  casserole.  Pour  the  milk 
over  the  mixture  and  dot  with  butter.  Put  a  cover  on  the  dish 
and  allow  to  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  cover  and 
allow  to  cook  twenty  minutes  more.  More  milk  may  be  added 
if  the  mixture  is  too  dry. 

Egg  Plant   (Three  portions) 

I  egg  plant         I  T-water 

I  t-salt  r/2   C-cracker  crumbs 

i  T-egg-yolk      2  T-lard 

Peel  and  slice  the  egg  plant  in  slices  one-half  an  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  each  slice  with  salt.  Place  the  slices  on  top  and  allow 
to  stand  for  two  hours.  This  drains  out  the  liquid.  Wipe  each 
piece  with  a  cloth  and  dip  in  the  beaten  egg-yolk,  to  which  the 
water  has  been  added.  Dip  in  the  cracker  crumbs.  Place  the 
lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  very  hot,  add  the  slices  of  egg 
plant.     Brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  lower  the  fire  and 


lav     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

cook  five  minutes.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  the  slices  over- 
lapping each  other. 

Ginger  Drop-Cakes    (Fifteen  cakes) 

i  C-molasses  2  t-ginger 

Yz  C-boiling   water  y2  t-salt 

2x/i  C-flour  y2  C-chopped  raisins 

1  t-soda  4  T-melted  butter 

Put  the  molasses  in  a  bowl,  add  the  boiling  water  and  the 
dry  ingredients,  sifted.  Then  add  the  raisins  and  the  melted 
butter.  Beat  well  for  two  minutes.  Pour  into  buttered  muffin 
pans,  filling  the  pans  one-half  full.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  XLIX 
SOME  CHRISTMAS  PLANS 

tt/^HRISTMAS  is  in  the  air  today,  I  believe,"  said  Char- 

^^  lotte  as  she  took  off  her  hat  and  warmed  her  cold 
hands  at  Bettina's  open  fire.  "You  ought  to  see  the  children 
around  the  toys  downtown — swarming  like  flies  at  the  molas- 
ses !  Still,  we  ought  to  think  about  Thanksgiving  before  we 
begin  our  Christmas  plans,  I  suppose." 

"I  try  to  get  all  my  Christmas  packages  ready  by  Thanks- 
giving," said  Bettina.  "Of  course,  I  don't  always  succeed, 
but  it  is  a  splendid  aim  to  have !  There  is  always  so  much  to 
do  at  the  last  minute — baking  and  company  and  candy  mak- 
ing! This  year  we  plan  to  give  very  few  gifts — but  to  send 
a  card  at  least  to  each  of  our  friends.  We're  racking  our 
brains  now  to  think  of  something  that  will  be  individual — 
really  ours,  you  know.  I  think  a  tiny  snapshot  of  yourself  or 
your  home,  or  your  baby  or  your  dog — or  even  a  sprig  of  holly 
or  a  bit  of  evergreen  on  a  card  with  a  few  written  words  of 
greeting  means  more  to  a  friend  than  all  the  lovely  engraved 
cards  in  the  world !  Of  course,  some  people  can  draw  or  paint 
and  make  their  own — Alice  will,  I'm  sure.  One  girl  I  know 
makes  wonderful  fruit  cake,  and  she  always  sends  a  piece  of 
it,  in  a  little  box  tied  with  holly  ribbon,  to  each  of  her  friends. 
Aren't  the  little  gifts  that  aren't  too  hard  on  one's  purse  the 
best  after  all — especially  when  they  really  come  straight  from 
the  giver,  and  not  merely  from  the  store  ?" 

"Bettina,  I'll  be  afraid  to  send  you  anything  after  such  an 
eloquent  sermon  as  this!" 

"Oh,  Charlotte,  how  you  talk !     I'm  telling  you  my  idea  of 

163 


164     A  thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

what  a  Christmas  gift  should  be,  but  I'll  probably  fall  far 
below  it  myself !    Luncheon  is  ready,  dear." 
For  luncheon  Bettina  and  Mrs.  Dixon  had : 


Mutton    in    Ramekins 

Rice 

Peanut  Bread 

Butter 

Apple  Sauce 

Tokay  Grapes 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Mutton  in  Ramekins  (Three  portions) 

V/2  C-cold    mutton     1  t-chopped  mint 
2/3  C-brown  gravy     1  egg-yolk 
Yz  t-salt  1  egg-white,  beaten  stiff 

Mix  the  mutton,  gravy,  salt,  mint  and  egg-yolk  thoroughly. 
Add  the  egg-white.  Turn  into  well-buttered  ramekins  or  china 
baking  dishes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
for  twenty-five  minutes.     Serve  in  the  ramekins. 

Rice  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-rice  1  t-salt 

2  qts.  boiling  water     1  T-butter 

Wash  the  rice,  add  slowly  to  the  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
twenty  minutes.  Pour  the  rice  in  a  strainer  and  rinse  with 
cold  water.  Place  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  to  dry.  Serve 
warm,  dotted  with  butter. 

Peanut  Bread  (Twelve  slices) 


2  C-flour 

4  T-"C"  sugar 

4  t-baking 

powder       1  egg 

/*  t-salt 

y2  C-chopped  peanuts 

Yi,  C-milk 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  sugar  and 
peanuts.  Add  the  tgg  and  milk.  Stir  vigorously  two  minutes. 
Place  in  a  well-buttered  bread  pan,  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


AFTER  THE  FOOTBALL  GAME 

W  I  AHERE  are  the  men  now,"  said  Mrs.  Dixon,  rolling 
■"-     up  the  hose  she  had  been  darning.    "Good  !"  said  Bet- 
tina.    "The  dinner  is  just  ready  for  them,  and  I'm  glad  they 
didn't  keep  us  waiting." 

"Hello !  Hello !"  shouted  Frank  and  Bob,  letting  in  a  gust  of 
cold  air  as  they  opened  the  door.    "Whew !  It's  cold !" 

"How  was  the  game?" 

"Fine !    39  to  o  in  favor  of  Blake !" 

"Not  very  exciting,  I  should  think." 

"Still,  Frank  here  wanted  to  bet  me  that  Blake  would  be 
badly  beaten!" 

"Frank !"  said  Charlotte  in  exasperation.  "Is  that  the  way 
you  show  your  loyalty  to  your  home  college  ?" 

"Shame  on  you,  Frank!"  grinned  Bob.  "Well,  dinner 
ready?     I'm  about  starving!" 

"Bettina  has  a  regular  'after-the-game'  dinner  tonight,"  said 
Charlotte.    "Just  the  kind  to  make  a  man's  heart  rejoice!" 

"Hurray !"  said  Bob,  stirring  up  the  grate  fire.  "And  after- 
ward we'll  have  our  coffee  in  here,  and  toast  marshmallows. 
Shall  we?" 

"Suits  me !"  said  Frank.  "Anything  you  suggest  suits  me, 
if  it's  something  to  eat." 

"Dinner's  ready,"  said  Bettina.  "Come  into  the  dining-room, 
people,  and  tell  us  about  the  game.  Charlotte  and  I  have 
mended  all  your  hose  this  afternoon,  and  we  deserve  a  royal 
entertainment  now." 

1*35 


166     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Bettina,"  said  Frank,  "do  you  expect  us  to  talk  when  you 
set  a  dinner  like  this  before  us?" 
The  menu  consisted  of: 

Flank  Steak,  Braized  with  Vegetables 

Cabbage   Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Brown  Betty  with  Hard  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Flank  Steak  Braized  with  Vegetables  (Four  portions) 

V/2  lbs.  flank  steak,  1*4  inches         I  T-butter 

thick  1^2   C-sliced,    raw   potatoes 

2  T-flour  y2   C-thinly  sliced  onions 

2  t-salt  i  green  pepper,  sliced  thin 

i  C-tomato  pulp 

Cut  with  a  knife  across  the  grain  of  the  flank  steak,  to  pre- 
vent it  from  curling  up.  Sprinkle  the  flour  and  one  teaspoon ful 
of  salt  on  both  sides  of  the  meat.  Dot  with  butter,  and  place 
in  an  oblong  baking  pan.  Over  the  meat  place  a  thick  layer 
of  sliced  raw  potatoes.  Add  the  green  pepper,  and  season 
with  one-half  a  teasponful  of  salt.  Place  the  onions  next  and 
the  rest  of  the  salt.  (One-half  a  teaspoon  ful.)  Pour  one 
cup  of  stewed  or  raw  tomato  pulp  over  all  the  mixture,  and 
cover  the  baking  pan  tightly.  Cook  slowly  in  the  oven  for 
two  hours.  One-half  hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  remove 
the  cover  to  allow  it  to  brown.  Water  may  need  to  be  added 
to  prevent  burning.  In  serving,  very  carefully  transfer  the 
steak  to  a  hot  platter,  preserving  the  various  layers  of  vege- 
tables. To  serve,  slice  down  through  the  layers  as  through  a 
loaf. 

Cabbage  Salad  (Four  portions) 

2  C-chopped    cabbage     }A  t-salt 
2  pieces  of  celery  J4  t-paprika 

y2  C-salad  dressing  or  enough  to  moisten 

Chop  the  cabbage  and  the  celery  fine.  Add  salt,  paprika  and 
salad  dressing.     Serve  cold. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  167 

Brown  Betty   (Four  portions) 

2  C-bread  crumbs  I  t-cinnamon 

2  C-sliced  apples,  pared  and     Yz  C-water 

cored  I  T-lemon  juice 

J4  C-sugar  i  T-butter 

y&  t-salt 

Mix  the  crumbs,  apples,  sugar,  salt  and  cinnamon  well. 
Pour  water  and  lemon  juice  over  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  but- 
tered baking-dish.  Place  the  butter  over  the  top  in  small 
pieces.  Cover  the  pan  with  a  lid  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  Remove  the  lid  after  the  Brown 
Betty  has  been  cooking  twenty-five  minutes  More  water  may 
be  needed  if  the  apples  are  not  very  juicy. 

Hard   Sauce    (Four  portions) 

3  T-butter  %  t-lemon  extract 

I  t-boiling  water     %  t-vanilla  extract 

24  C-powdered  sugar 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  water  and  slowly  add  the  sugar. 
Continue  mixing  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  lemon  and  va- 
nilla extract.  Form  into  a  cube  and  place  in  the  ice  box.  Al- 
low to  stand  half  an  hour,  then  cut  into  slices  and  serve  on  top 
of  the  Brown  Betty. 


CHAPTER  LI 
A  THANKSGIVING  DINNER  IN  THE  COUNTRY 

AFTER  all  the  excitement  of  Alice's  wedding,  Bettina 
was  more  than  delighted  when  she  and  Bob  were  invited 
to  a  family  dinner  at  Aunt  Lucy's  on  Thanksgiving  day.  "It 
always  seems  to  me  the  most  comfortable  and  restful  place  in 
the  world,"  said  she  to  Bob.  "And  Aunt  Lucy  is  such  a  won- 
derful cook,  too  !    We're  very  lucky  this  year,  I  can  tell  you !" 

"Who's  to  be  there?" 

"Father  and  mother — we  are  to  drive  out  with  them — and 
Aunt  Lucy's  sister  and  her  big  family.  Thanksgiving  seems 
more  natural  with  children  at  the  table,  I  think.  And  those 
are  the  liveliest,  rosiest  children!" 

Bob  had  slept  late  that  morning,  and  consequently  had  eaten 
no  breakfast,  but  he  did  not  regret  his  keen  appetite  when 
Uncle  John  was  carving  the  great  brown  turkey. 

"The  children  first,  John,"  said  kind  Aunt  Lucy.  "The 
grown  folks  can  wait." 

Little  Dick  and  Sarah  had  exclaimed  with  delight  at  the 
place  cards  of  proud  turkeys  standing  beside  each  plate.  In 
the  center  of  the  table  was  a  great  wicker  basket  heaped  with 
oranges,  nuts  and  raisins. 

"It  doesn't  seem  natural  without  pumpkin  pie,"  said  Aunt 
Lucy,  "but  John  was  all  for  plum  pudding  instead." 

"We  can  have  pie  any  day,"  said  Uncle  John,  "but  this  is  a 
special  occasion.  What  with  Dick  here — and  Sarah — and  Bet- 
tina— who's  some  cook  herself,  I  can  tell  you ! — I  was  deter- 
mined that  mother  should  show  her  skill !  And  she  did ;  didn't 
she?" 


1C>S 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  169 

The  menu  was  as  follows : 

Turkey  with  Giblet  Gravy  Oyster  Dressing 

Mashed  Potatoes  Creamed  Onions 

Cranberry  Frappe 

Bread  Celery  Butter 

Plum  Pudding  Hard  Sauce 

Nuts  Raisins 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

THE   THANKSGIVING   DINNER   RECIPES 

Roast  Turkey   (Fourteen  portions) 
i   12-lb.  turkey 

The  turkey  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed  in  a 
pan  of  water  to  which  one  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  added 
to  each  two  quarts  of  water.  Wash  the  inside  with  a  cloth, 
rinsing  thoroughly,  allowing  plenty  of  water  to  run  through  the 
turkey.  Dry  well  and  stuff.  Season  all  over  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  When  baking,  lay  the  fowl  first  on  one  side,  then 
on  the  other  until  one-half  hour  before  taking  from  the  oven. 
Then  it  should  be  turned  on  its  back,  allowing  the  breast  to 
brown.  A  twelve  pound  turkey  should  be  cooked  three  hours 
in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently. 

Oyster  Dressing  (Fourteen  portions) 

6  C-stale  bread  crumbs       2  t-salt 
Yz   C-melted  butter  y2  t-pepper 

1  pt.  oysters 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  adding  the  oysters 
cleaned  and  drained  from  the  liquor.  Fill  the  turkey  and  sew 
up  with  needle  and  thread. 

Preparing  the  Giblets 

Wash  thoroughly  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard.  Cut  through 
the  thick  muscle  of  the  gizzard  and  peel  it  slowly  without 
breaking  through  the  inside  lining.  Cut  the  heart  open,  and 
remove  carefully  the  gall  bladder  from  the  liver.  Wash  care- 
fully again,  and  soak  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.   Cook  slowly 


170     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

until  tender,  in  one  cup  of  water.    More  water  may  be  needed. 
Cut  fine,  and  add  to  the  gravy.     Save  the  stock. 

The  Gravy 

i  C-stock        i  T-cold  water 
2  T-flour       YA  t-salt 

For  each  cup  of  liquor,  which  is  left  in  the  roasting  pan,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Mix  the  flour  with  two  tablespoons  of 
cold  water,  add  the  liquid  slowly,  and  cook  two  minutes.  Add 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  the  giblets.     Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Onions  (Six  portions) 

2  C-cooked   onions     i   C-white  sauce 

Cook  the  onions  in  one  quart  of  water  in  an  uncovered 
utensil  until  tender.  (About  fifteen  minutes.)  Drain  and  add 
one  cup  of  white  sauce.     Serve  hot. 

Plum  Pudding   (Six  portions) 

2  C-soft  bread  crumbs  J/2  C-molasses 

Y*  t-soda  4  T-"C"  sugar 

*4  t-cloves  i  egg 

I  t-cinnamon  Y\  C-milk 

%  t-salt  ]/2  C-currants 

y2  C-suet  y2  C-raisins 
i  t-vanilla 

Chop  the  suet,  and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  to 
prevent  sticking.  Add  the  raisins,  currants,  "C"  sugar,  salt, 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  bread  crumbs.  Add  the  tgg  and  milk 
beaten  together,  add  the  vanilla,  mix  the  soda  in  the  molasses 
and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding 
mould  one-half  full.  Steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Hard  Sauce 

1/3  C-butter  Y$  C-brown  sugar 

2  T-hot  water     y2  t-vanilla 
y2  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  water  and  gradually  add  the  sugar. 
Continue  mixing  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract.     Chill  and  serve  over  the  hot  pudding. 


CHAPTER    LII 
PLANNING  THE  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 

ft  \   ND  what  is  in  this  dish,  Bettina?"  asked  Bob,  as  he 

-ZjL    lifted  the  hot  cover. 

"Candied  sweet  potatoes,  dear,  and  I'm  almost  sure  that 
you'll  like  them.  I  made  them  in  the  fireless  cooker,  and 
they're  really  more  candy  than  potatoes." 

"They'll  suit  me,  then,"  said  Bob.  "The  sweeter  the  better ! 
My  mother  used  to  cook  up  candied  sweet  potatoes  with  a  lot 
of  brown  sugar  syrup — say,  but  they  tasted  good  about  this 
time  of  year  when  I  would  come  in  from  skating!  Well,  I 
believe  these  are  exactly  like  hers !" 

"Only  hers  weren't  made  in  a  fireless  cooker,"  said  Bettina. 
"Now,  Bob,  as  soon  as  you  have  allayed  your  hunger  a  little 
we  must  put  our  heads  together  long  enough  to  get  an  idea  for 
Christmas  cards.  If  we  have  something  made,  it  may  take 
several  weeks,  and  you  know  it  is  no  small  task  to  address 
several  hundred  of  them.  As  soon  as  we  have  ordered  them, 
we'd  better  make  out  our  Christmas  list.  But  first,  what  shall 
the  cards  be?    Think,  Bob !" 

"Goodness  gracious  sakes  alive,  but  thinking  is  hot  work! 
Well,  how's  this?  Suppose  we  don't  have  cards  engraved — 
they're  expensive,  and  besides,  'twould  take  too  long!  We'll 
find  some  plain  white  correspondence  cards — or  perhaps  white 
cards  with  a  red  edge — and  envelopes  to  go  with  them,  and  in 
the  corner  of  the  card  we'll  stick  a  tiny  round  snapshot  of  the 
house.  Then  we'll  write  this  verse  very  neatly  and  sign  it 
'Bettina  and  Bob.'  Perhaps  you  can  improve  on  this,  how- 
ever: 


171 


172     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We  enclose  our  Christmas  greetings 
And  the  hope  that  we  may  know 
Many  happy  future  meetings 
In  this  little  bungalow !" 

"Bob,  that's  the  very  thing !"  cried  Bettina. 
For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Beefsteak  Fireless  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots 

Pineapple  Charlotte  Custard  Sauce 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fireless    Sweet    Potatoes    (Candied)     (Six    Portions) 

6  large  sweet  potatoes       I  t-salt 
i  C-brown  sugar  J4  t-pepper 

54  C-water  I  T-butter 

Wash  and  peel  the  sweet  potatoes.  Slice  them  lengthwise 
in  one-half  inch  slices.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  for  five 
minutes  the  brown  sugar  and  water.  Add  the  butter.  Ar- 
range the  potatoes  in  a  fireless  cooker  utensil.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Place  the 
heated  disks  under  and  over  the  pan  of  potatoes,  and  cook  in 
the  fireless  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Pineapple  Charlotte  (Four  portions) 

2  T-corn  starch  2  egg-whites 

4  T-cold  water  I  t-vanilla 

"%  t-salt  Yz  t-lemon  extract 

J4  C-sugar  2  slices  of  pineapple  cut 

i  C-boiling  water  in  slices  lengthwise 

Mix  the  corn  starch,  salt  and  sugar ;  gradually  add  the  cold 
water,  stirring  well,  and  then  add  the  hot  water.  Cook  about 
five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add  the  vanilla,  and 
the  egg-whites  stiffly  beaten.  Pour  into  a  moistened  mould  in 
which  the  slices  of  pineapple  have  been  arranged.  Set  in  a 
cool  place  for  two  hours.     Serve  with  custard  sauce. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  173 

Custard  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

il/2  C-milk  l/2  t-vanilla 

2  egg-yolks      %  t-salt 
J4  C-sugar  I  T-flour 

J4  t-lemon  extract 

Mix  well  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour,  gradually  add  the  beaten 
egg-yolks,  and  the  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
mixture  coats  a  silver  spoon  yellow.  Add  the  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract.     Beat  one  minute.     Serve  very  cold. 


DECEMBER. 

Roasting  turkeys!    Rich  mince  pies! 
Cakes  of  every  shape  and  size! 
Santa,  though  they're  fond  of  you, 
Christmas  needs  us  housewives,  too! 


CHAPTER   LIII 
HARRY   AND   ALICE   RETURN 


ftTTTHO  can  that  be?"  said 
VV  Bettina,  laying  down 
her  napkin.  "Someone  is  at  the 
door,  Bob,  I  think.  I  wonder 
why  he  doesn't  ring?" 

"Hello!"  said  Bob,  throwing 
open  the  door.  "Why,  Bettina! 
It's  Alice  and  Harry  !  When  did 
you  get  home?" 

"We're  on  our  way  home 
now,"  said  Harry,  as  he  set 
down  the  suitcases  he  was  holding.  "Say,  these  are  heavy! 
We  thought  we'd  stop  in  for  a  minute  to  rest." 

"Welcome  home !"  said  Bettina.  "Just  think,  we  don't  even 
know  yet  where  you  went  for  your  wedding  trip,  though  we 
suspected  California." 

"California  it  was,"  said  Alice,  "along  with  all  the  other 
recent  brides  and  grooms.  We  escaped  any  particular  notice ; 
there  were  so  many  of  us.  It  was  rather  a  relief,  though." 
"Have  you  had  your  dinner?"  asked  Bettina,  a  little  em- 
barrassed at  the  thought  of  the  "dinner  for  two"  that  she 
and  Bob  were  just  finishing.  There  was  certainly  not  enough 
left  for  another  person,  not  to  suggest  two.  But  then,  of 
course  there  was  her  ample  emergency  shelf. 

"We  had  our  dinner  on  the  diner,"  said  Harry,  "or  we 
shouldn't  have  dared  to  stop  at  this  hour." 

"Do  come  on  out  to  the  kitchen,"  said  Bettina.     "Bob  is 


175 


176     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

about  to  make  some  delicious  sour  cream  candy,  aren't  you, 
Bob?  Surely  that  is  a  splendid  way  to  entertain  a  newly 
returned  bride  and  groom." 

"Fine !"  said  Harry,  "though  we  can't  stay  long.  We  must 
hie  to  our  own  apartment  and  get  rid  of  the  dust  of  travel. 
We're  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  we  can  return  some 
of  your  hospitality.  I  shall  learn  to  make  even  better  candy 
than  Bob's !" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  had : 

Pork  Chops  with   Sweet  Potatoes 

Apple  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

Perfection  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Chops  with  Sweet  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 

2  sweet  potatoes     J4  t-paprika 
I  t-salt  2  chops 

1/3  C-boiling  water 

Pare  sweet  potatoes,  add  salt  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  a 
small  roasting  pan.  Wipe  pork  chops  and  place  on  top  of  the 
potatoes.  Place  the  pan,  uncovered,  on  the  top  shelf  of  a  hot 
oven  in  order  to  brown  the  chops.  Brown  on  one  side  and 
then  turn  gently  and  brown  on  the  other.  Sprinkle  with  a 
little  salt  and  paprika,  and  add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Cover,  and  bake\  one  hour,  or  until  the  potatoes  are 
done.     Baste  frequently. 

Perfection  Salad   (Three  portions) 

1  T-granulated  gelatin  4  T-sugar 

4  T-cold  water  x/2  t-salt 

4  T-vinegar    ^  2/3  C-diced  celery 

I  T-lemon  juice  J/2  C-shredded  cabbage 

I  C-boiling  water  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  T-pimento,  cut  fine 

Add  the  cold  water  to  the  gelatin,  and  let  it  stand  for  five 
minutes.  Add  the  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved 
add  the  vinegar,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  sugar.     Mix  well.    Add 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  177 

the  celery,  cabbage,  green  pepper  and  pimento  when  the  jelly 
begins  to  set.  Pour  into  a  mould  which  has  been  dipped  in 
cold  water.  Allow  to  set  in  a  very  cold  place  for  one  hour. 
Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Sour  Cream  Candy   (Six  portions) 

2  C-brown  sugar  i  t-vanilla 

y2  C-sour  cream  or  l/2  C-sour   milk  plus    I    T-butter 
Y^  t-cream  of  tartar 

Mix  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  the  sour  cream  or  milk. 
Cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Beat  until  creamy 
and  place  in  a  well-buttered  pan. 


CHAPTER    LIV 

SOME  OF  BETTINA'S   CHRISTMAS   PLANS 

*f~pO-NIGHT,"  said  Bettina  at  the  dinner  table,  "I  expect 
A  to  finish  three  Christmas  gifts — one  for  Alice,  one  for 
Mary  and  one  for  Eleanor.  Now  aren't  you  curious  to  know 
what  I've  been  making?" 

"Curiosity  is  no  name  for  it,"  said  Bob,  "but  I'm  even  more 
curious  to  know  what  particular  thing  it  is  that  makes  this 
ham  so  tender.  Is  it  baked?  Anyhow,  it's  the  best  I  have 
ever  eaten." 

"Thank  you,"  said  Bettina,  "but  you  always  say  that  about 
sliced  ham,  no  matter  how  it  is  cooked.  But  this  is  a  little 
different.     It  is  baked  in  milk." 

"Great,  anyhow,"  said  Bob.  "Now  tell  me  about  your  con- 
spiracy with  Santa  Claus." 

"Well,  I  am  making  for  Alice  an  indexed  set  of  recipes — a 
card  index.  All  the  recipes  are  just  for  two,  and  they  are  all 
tried  and  true." 

"Just  for  two, 
Tried  and  true — 
Sent,  with  Betty's  love,  to  you." 

echoed   Bob.     "You  can  write  that  on  the  card  that  goes 
with  it." 

"I  shall  have  you  think  what  to  say  on  all  the  gifts,  Bob.  I 
must  show  you  the  box  of  cards.  It  is  only  a  correspondence- 
card  box,  with  the  white  cards  to  fit,  but  I'm  sure  that  Alice 
will  like  her  new  cook  book.    Then  for  Mary  and  Eleanor  I 


178 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  179 

have  made  card-table  covers.  Mary's  is  of  white  Indian  head 
— just  a  square  of  it,  bound  with  white  tap  and  with  white 
tape  at  the  corners  for  tying  it  to  the  table.  It  is  to  have  a 
white  monogram.  Eleanor's  is  linen-colored  and  is  bound  in 
green  with  a  green  monogram.  Hers  is  finished  and  I  shall 
finish  Mary's  this  evening — that  is,  if  you  will  read  to  me  while 
I  work !" 

"Hurray  !"  said  Bob.    "What  shall  I  read  ?    Mark  Twain  ?" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Baked  Ham  Baked  Potatoes 

Corn  Bread  Butter 

Cranberry  Sauce 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Ham  (Three  portions) 

2/3  lb.   slice   of  ham     i  C-milk 
one  inch  thick         i  T-flour 
1  T-\vater 

Cover  the  ham  with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  ten  min- 
utes. Remove  from  the  pan,  and  place  the  ham  in  a  pan  just 
large  enough  to  hold  it.  Cover  with  the  milk.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  More  milk  may  be 
added  if  necessary.  When  the  ham  is  done,  add  more  liquid 
(enough  to  make  one-half  a  cup).  Mix  flour  with  water. 
Add  the  hot  milk  to  this  slowly.  Heat  and  cook  one  minute. 
Serve  with  the  ham. 

Corn  Bread  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-corn  meal  y2  t-salt 

2/3  C-flour  1  egg-yolk 

3  T-sugar  2/3  C-milk 

2  t-baking  powder  1  T-melted  butter 

Mix  the  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt 
thoroughly.  Add  the  egg-yolk  and  milk,  and  beat  two  min- 
utes. Add  the  melted  butter.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  a  well 
buttered  square  cake  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes. 


180     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Cranberry  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

I  qt.  cranberries     2  C-sugar 
2  C-water 

Look  over  and  wash  the  cranberries.  Cook  them  in  the 
water  until  they  are  soft  and  the  skins  are  broken.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  well.  Cook  three  min- 
utes.    Pour  into  a  mould  which  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water. 


CHAPTER    LV 

MORE  OF  BET-TINA'S  CHRISTMAS  SHOPPING 

if  "DOB,   said   Bettina,   as   she   served   the   plum   pudding, 
■*-J      "Christmas  is  in  the  very  air  these  days!" 
"Did  the  Christmas  spirit  inspire  this  plum  pudding?"  said 
he.     "Blessings  on  the  head  of  Santa  Claus!     But  why  your 
outburst?" 

"Because  today  I  went  shopping  in  earnest!  I  bought  the 
very  things  that  seem  most  Christmassy :  tissue  paper,  white 
and  green,  gold  cord,  a  ball  of  red  twine,  Santa  Claus  and 
holly  stickers,  and  the  cards  to  tie  to  the  packages.  I  love  to 
wrap  up  Christmas  things !" 

"And  are  most  of  your  gifts  ready  to  be  wrapped?" 
"No,  not  all,  for  some  of  them  can't  be  made  till  the  last 
minute.  For  instance,  I  thought  and  thought  about  Uncle 
Eric's  gift !  I  want  so  much  to  please  him,  but  he  has  every- 
thing that  money  can  buy  except  perhaps  a  cook  that  suits 
him.  Finally  I  decided  to  send1  him  a  box  containing  a  jar  of 
spiced  peaches,  a  jar  of  Russian  dressing,  a  little  round  fruit 
cake,  and  a  box  of  fudge.     The  things  will  all  be  wrapped 

with  tissue  paper,  and  gold  cord  and  holly " 

"Lucky  Uncle  Eric!"  sighed  Bob.  "I  wish  Santa  Claus 
would  bring  me  a  Christmas  box  like  that — fruit  cake  and 

spiced  peaches  and  Russian  dressing " 

"Maybe  he  will  if  you're  very  good !"  laughed  Bettina.  "If 
you  eat  everything  your  cook  sets  before  you." 

"Tell  me  sometHing  hard  to  do!"  said  Bob,  with  enthusi- 
asm.   For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 


181 


182     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Escalloped  Eggs  and  Cheese 

Baked  Potatoes  Current  Jelly 

Rolls 

Plum  Pudding  with  Yellow  Sauce 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Escalloped   Eggs   with    Cheese    (Three   portions) 

3  hard-cooked  eggs       I   C-soft  bread  crumbs 

2  T-butter  ]/2  C-cheese,  cut  fine 
2  T-flour  i  t-salt 

I   C-milk  i  t-parsley 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Gradually  add 
the  milk.  Cook  one  minute,  add  the  cheese  and  the  eggs  cut 
in  slices.  Add  the  parsley  and  the  salt.  Place  one-half  the 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish,  add  the 
egg  mixture  and  cover  with  the  remaining  crumbs.  Dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Bettina's  Plum  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

I  C-fresh  bread  crumbs     I  t-baking  powder 
%  C-suet,  chopped  fine       Y\   C-molasses 
y2  t-soda  i  egg 

Yz  t-ground  cloves  1/3  C-milk 

y2  t-ground  cinnamon  4  T-raisins 

%  t-salt  4  T-nuts 

Mix  the  bread  crumbs,  suet,  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Add  the  raisins  cut  fine,  and  the  nuts. 
Break  the  egg  into  the  molasses,  beat  well,  and  add  the  milk. 
Mix  with  the  first  ingredients.  Stir  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill 
a  well-buttered  pudding  mould  one-half  full.  Steam  one  and  a 
half  hours,  and  serve  with  yellow  sauce. 

Yellow  Sauce   (Four  portions) 

1  egg  1  T-milk 

l/i  C-powdered  sugar     T/2  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  white  until  stiff  and  dry.  Add  the  yolk  and 
beat  one  minute.  Add  the  powdered  sugar  and  continue  beat- 
ing. Add  the  milk  gradually  and  the  vanilla.  Continue  beat- 
ing: for  one  minute.     Serve  at  once  over  a  hot  pudding. 


CHAPTER   LVI 
CHRISTMAS   GIFTS 

f  f  O  PEAKING  of  Christmas  gifts,"  said  Charlotte,  "wouldn't 

^  anyone  be  delighted  to  receive  a  little  jar  of  your  Rus- 
sian dressing,  Bettina?" 

"I'm  sure  I'd  like  it !"  said  Frank  Dixon.  "Much  better  than 
a  pink  necktie  or  a  white  gift  book  called  'Thoughts  at  Christ- 
mas-Tide !'  " 

"Mary  Owen  makes  candied  orange  peel  for  all  of  her 
friends,"  said  Bettina,  "and  I  think  that  is  so  nice,  for  hers 
is  delicious !  She  saves  candy  boxes  through  the  year,  and  all 
of  her  close  friends  receive  the  same  gift  with  Mary's  card. 
We  all  know  what  to  expect  from  her,  and  we  are  all  delighted, 
too.  And  you  see  she  doesn't  have  to  worry  over  different 
gifts  for  each  one.  I  do  think  Christmas  is  growing  more 
sensible,  don't  you?" 

"My  sister  in  South  Carolina  sends  out  her  Christmas  gifts 
a  few  weeks  early,"  said  Frank.  "She  sends  boxes  of  mistle- 
toe to  everyone.  They  seem  to  be  welcome,  too.  By  the  way, 
Bob,  did  you  and  Bettina  decide  on  your  Christmas  cards  ?" 

"Yes,"  said  Bob,  "and  they  are  partly  ready.  But  we  are 
waiting  to  get  a  little  picture  of  the  bungalow  with  snow  on 
the  roof — a  winter  picture  seems  most  appropriate — and  the 
snow  isn't  forthcoming!  The  weather  man  seems  to  be  all 
upset  this  year." 

"Charlotte  has  been  making  some  small  calendars  to  send 
out,"  said  Frank.    "She  has  used  her  kodak  pictures,  and  I'm 


18S 


184     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

afraid  they're  mostly  of  me !  I  don't  know  what  some  of  my 
friends  will  say  when  they  see  me  with  an  apron  around  my 
neck,  seeding  cherries !" 

"They'll  be  surprised,  anyhow,"  said  Charlotte.  "I  rather 
like  that  picture  myself !" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

Escalloped  Oysters  Baked  Potatoes 

Head  Lettuce  Russian  Dressing 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Apple  Jelly 

Prune  Whip  Cream 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Escalloped  Oysters   (Four  portions) 

2  C-oysters  I  t-salt 

2  C-cracker  crumbs       lA  t-pepper 

3  T-melted  butter       il/2  C-milk 

Look  over  the  oysters  carefully  and  remove  any  particles 
of  shell.  To  the  melted  butter  add  salt,  pepper  and  cracker 
crumbs.  Place  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  add  the  oysters  and  more  crumbs 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  the  milk  over  the  oysters  and 
crackers.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Russian  Dressing  (Four  portions) 

I  C-salad  dressing  l/2  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped  pimento  lA  t-salt 

I  t-chopped  green  pepper  l/2  C-olive  oil 

i  t-vinegar  l/2  C-chili  sauce 

To  the  cup  of  salad  dressing,  add  the  oil,  chili  sauce,  season- 
ings, vinegar  and  finely  chopped  vegetables.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Pour  over  head  lettuce. 

Prune  Whip  (Four  portions) 

1/3  lb.    prunes       1  T-lemon  juice 
3  egg-whites     x/2  C-sugar 

Look  over  and  wash  the  prunes.     Soak  for  three  hours  in 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  185 

cold  water.  Cook  until  soft.  Rub  through  a  strainer,  and 
add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Cook  this  mixture  for  five 
minutes.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until  very  stiff,  and  add  the 
prunes  when  cold.  Pile  lightly  into  a  buttered  baking  dish 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. 


CHAPTER   LVII 

A   CHRISTMAS    SHOWER 

**  T^\EAR  Bettina,"  wrote  Polly,  "somehow  I  never  do  like 
■*-^  to  write  letters — certainly  not  at  this  busiest  time  of 
the  year! — but  I  simply  must  tell  you  about  a  luncheon  that 
Elizabeth  Carter  and  I  gave  the  other  day  for  one  of  our 
holiday  brides.  (Angeline  Carey;  do  you  remember  her?  A 
dear  girl — rather  quiet,  but  with  plenty  of  good  common 
sense.) 

"We  had  a  large  Christmas  table  (aren't  they  simple  and 
effective?),  with  a  Christmas  tree  in  the  center,  strung  with 
tiny  electric  lights,  and  hung  with  tinsel  and  ornaments. 
Strings  of  red  Christmas  bells  stretched  from  the  chandelier 
above  the  table  to  the  four  corners.  The  favors  at  each  place 
were  several  kinds, — Santas,  little  Christmas  trees,  snow  men 
and  sleds,  all  of  them  concealing  at  their  bases  the  boxes  hold- 
ing the  salted  nuts.  The  place-cards  were  simply  Christmas 
cards. 

"Before  the  guest  of  honor  stood  a  small  Santa,  larger, 
however,  than  any  of  the  other  Santas,  and  in  his  hands  were 
the  ends  of  twenty  or  more  narrow  green  ribbons,  each  lead- 
ing to  a  separate  shower-package  at  the  base  of  the  tree.  These 
packages  (it  was  a  miscellaneous  shower)  made  an  interest- 
ing-looking heap,  but  we  didn't  ask  Angeline  to  open  them 
until  we  had  reached  the  salad  course.  Then  she  drew  each 
one  toward  her  by  the  end  of  a  ribbon,  opened  it,  and  read 
the  verse  on  the  gift.     You  have  no  idea  how  clever  some  of 


186 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  187 

the  gifts  and  verses  were !  Margaret  McLaughlin — do  you 
remember  her? — had  dressed  a  dishmop  in  two  tea  towels, 
making  the  funniest  old  woman !  This  she  introduced  as 
Bridget,  Angeline's  cook-to-be !  One  of  the  girls  who  sketches 
cleverly  had  illustrated  her  card  with  pictures  of  Angeline  in 
her  kitchen. 

"But  I  am  forgetting  our  table  decorations !  We  had  fur- 
nished four  rooms  for  Angeline,  doll  size,  and  the  furniture 
of  each  was  grouped  along  the  table.  Besides  the  living  room, 
bedroom,  dining  room  and  kitchen,  we  presented  Angeline  and 
Dean  with  an  auto  (in  miniature,  of  course),  a  cow,  a  horse, 
several  ducks  and  chickens,  a  ferocious  dog  and  a  sleepy  cat. 
Weren't  we  good  to  them  ?  And  lo  and  behold !  beside  the 
auto  stood  Dean  himself,  disguised  as  a  little  china  kewpie 
man ;  while  Angeline,  always  a  lady,  stood  gracefully  in  the 
living  room  and  refused  to  help  him  with  his  menial  tasks, 
or  to  assist  Nora,  who  was  hanging  out  the  clothes  in  the  back 
yard.     Angeline  was  a  kewpie,  dressed  in  style. 

"We  had  the  greatest  fun  finding  and  arranging  these  deco- 
rations !  And  now  I  must  tell  you  about  the  luncheon  itself. 
I'm  even  enclosing  our  recipes,  for  I  know  you'll  be  inter- 
ested. .  .  ." 

"Hello,  there,  Bettina !"  called  Bob  at  this  moment,  coming 
in  with  a  rush,  "is  dinner  ready?  What  do  you  suppose  I've 
done?  I've  absolutely  forgotten  to  send  a  Christmas  gift  to 
Aunt  Elizabeth,  and  I  know  she'll  feel  hurt.  Will  you  go 
with  me  after  dinner  to  get  it  ?" 

Polly's  luncheon  menu  was  as  follows : 


A   CHRISTMAS    SHOWER 

Grapefruit  with  Maraschino  Cherries 

Chicken   Croquettes  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Light  Rolls  Butter 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Vegetable  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Santa  Claus  Sandwiches 
Chocolate   Ice   Cream  a   la  Tannenbaum 

Christmas  White  Cake 
Salted  Nuts  Coffee  Candy  Canes 


188     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"I  wish,  Bettina,"  Polly's  letter  continued,  "that  you  might 
have  seen  the  cunning  sandwiches  that  we  served  with  the 
salad.  They  were  cut  with  a  star-shaped  cooky  cutter,  and 
on  each  one  was  perched  a  tiny  Santa  Claus.  The  sandwiches 
were  arranged  on  a  tray  decorated  with  Christmas  tree 
branches. 

"And  now  comes  the  dessert.  The  chocolate  ice  cream  was 
served  in  small  flower  pots  lined  with  waxed  paper,  and  in 
each  flower  pot  grew  a  miniature  Christmas  tree.  Around  the 
base  of  the  tree,  whipped  cream  was  heaped  to  represent  snow. 
They  were  really  very  cunning. 

"Served  with  the  ice  cream  was  a  large  round  white  cake 
decorated  very  elaborately  with  icing  bells  and  holly.  On  the 
top  was  placed  a  real  candy  bell,  large  and  red.  This  cake 
was  carried  in  to  Angeline  to  cut.  Around  the  base,  inside 
the  cake,  were  twenty  tiny  favors  wrapped  in  waxed  paper. 
They  were  of  all  sorts :  pipes,  canoes,  flat  irons,  animals,  birds, 
many  things,  but  all  very  tiny.  Narrow  white  bows  tied  on 
each  favor  indicated  its  position  in  the  cake  so  that  the  pieces 
could  be  cut  to  give  each  guest  a  favor,  Angeline  cut  her 
piece  first  and  drew  her  favor  by  pulling  the  little  white  rib- 
bon. It  was  really  great  fun  drawing  and  unwrapping  the 
favors,  and  the  girls  tried  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  each. 
Mary  Katherine,  Angeline's  younger  sister,  drew  the  ring,  and 
delightedly  proclaimed  that  she  would  be  the  next  bride.  At 
this  the  girls  looked  a  little  doubtful,  for  at  the  table  were  no 
less  than  six  engaged  girls  besides  Angeline.  Mary  Katherine 
may  fool  them — who  knows? — but  I  hope  not,  for  she  is  far 
too  young  and  silly  to  'settle  down'  for  many  years. 

"With  the  coffee  we  served  striped  candy  canes. 

"Well,  Betty,  I  believe  I've  told  you  everything  about  our 
Christmas  luncheon.  Do  write  me  soon  again,  for  I  love  to 
get  your  letters.  Stir  Bob  up  to  write  occasionally;  he  has 
forgotten  his  sister — now  that  he  has  a  wife. 

"Yours  always, 

"Polly." 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  ISO 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Chicken  Croquettes  (Twenty-five  croquettes) 


A  3-lb.  chicken,  cooked 

2  t-salt 

and  cut  fine 

i  C-chicken  fat 

I  lb.    lean    veal,    cooked 

]/2  C-flour 

and  cut  fine 

i  T-salt 

4  T-chopped    green    pep- 

2 C-milk 

per 

2  eggs 

J4  t-paprika 

3  T-water 

3  C-cracker  crumbs 

Melt  the  chicken  fat.  Add  the  flour  and  salt  and  mix  well. 
Gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  mix- 
ture gets  thick  and  creamy,  allow  it  to  cook,  with  an  asbestos 
mat  under  the  pan,  for  five  minutes.  This  cooks  the  flour 
thoroughly.  Beat  one  minute  to  make  it  creamy.  Add  the 
chicken,  veal,  green  pepper,  paprika  and  salt.  Allow  the  mix- 
ture to  cool.  Take  one  tablespoon  of  the  cooled  mixture,  and 
dip  in  the  beaten  egg  to  which  the  water  has  been  added.  Dip 
in  the  crumbs  and  shape  any  desired  shape,  preferably  conical. 
Allow  the  croquettes  to  stand  at  least  one  hour  before  frying. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Keep  hot  in  the 
oven  until  serving. 

Vegetable  Salad  (Twenty  portions) 

io  tomatoes  H  C-green  pepper,  cut  in  strips 

2  t-salt  20  pieces  of  lettuce 

I  t-paprika  2  C-salad  dressing 

i  C-cottage  cheese 

i  C-pimentoes,  cut  in  strips         ^4  C-oil  from  the  canned  pimento 
Yz  C-whipped  cream 

Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  (washed)  on  salad  plates.  Place 
one  slice  of  tomato,  two  slices  of  pimento  and  two  slices  of 
green  pepper  on  each.  Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  two  teaspoons  of  cottage  cheese.  Place  one 
teaspoon  of  salad  dressing  on  each  portion. 

To  prepare  the  salad  dressing,  mix  boiled  dressing  and 
pimento  oil  together  and  then  add  the  whipped  cream.  Mix 
well,  and  pile  attractively  on  the  salad. 


CHAPTER   LVIII 
BOB'S   CHRISTMAS   GIFT   TO   BETTINA 

BOB  had  walked  home  from  the  office  through  the  falling 
snow — and  it  was  no  short  distance — with  thought  for 
neither  snow  nor  distance.  He  was  distinctly  worried, — Christ- 
mas only  two  weeks  off,  the  first  Christmas  since  he  and  Bettina 
had  been  married,  and  as  yet  he  had  no  idea  what  sort  of  a 
Christmas  gift  he  ought  to  purchase  for  his  wife.  What  did 
she  need?  Unfortunately  he  had  heard  her  say  only  a  few 
days  ago  that  she  didn't  need  a  thing.  What  did  she  secretly 
long  for?  A  glass  baking  dish!  Shucks,  what  an  unromantic 
present !  Surely  Bettina  had  been  teasing  him  when  she  men- 
tioned such  a  prosy  gift  as  that !  Well,  if  he  didn't  have  some 
inspiration  by  the  day  before  Christmas  there  would  be  noth- 
ing to  do  but  get  her  violets,  or  candy,  or  perhaps  some  silly 
book  that  she  didn't  want. 

"Hello,  Bob !"  said  a  voice  almost  at  his  feet. 

"Say  Mister  Bob,  Billy,"  another  voice  corrected  severely. 

"Hello,  Jacky!    Good  evening,  Marjorie!    Coasting  good?" 

"Oh,  pretty  good.  You  don't  know  what  we've  got  at  our 
house!" 

"Four  Angora  kittens !"  interrupted  Marjorie  eagerly,  be- 
fore Bob  had  a  chance  to  guess.  "Four  whole  kittens.  Can't 
see  a  thing,  though,  but  they'll  learn  after  a  while!  We're 
going  to  sell  three  of  'em,  and  keep  one,  and " 

"See  here,  Marjorie!"  exclaimed  Bob.  "I'd  like  to  buy  one 
myself,  for  a  Christmas  present  to  some  one !  How  about 
it?  You  ask  your  mother  to  save  one  for  me — I'll  stop  in  to- 
morrow morning  and  talk  to  her  about  it.  Could  you  take 
care  of  it  for  me  till  Christmas  morning?" 


190 


With  Bettina' s  Best  Recipes  191 

And  Bob  strode  on  with  a  happy  grin  on  his  face.    Wouldn't 
Bettina  laugh  at  the  idea  of  an  Angora  kitten ! 
For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served: 

Beef  Steak  Baked  Potatoes 

Cauliflower  in  Cream  Cranberry  Jelly  Moulds 

Bread  Butter 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake  Confectioner's  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Cranberry  Jelly    (Three   portions) 

2  C-cranberries     2/3  C-water 

Y\  C-sugar 

Look  over  the  cranberries,  removing  any  stems  and  soft 
berries.  Add  the  water  and  cook  until  the  skins  have  burst 
and  all  the  berries  are  soft.  Press  through  a  strainer,  remov- 
ing all  the  pulp.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  pulp,  and  cook  until 
the  mixture  is  thick,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking. 
When  the  jelly  stands  up  on  a  plate  it  is  done.  Pour  into 
moulds  (preferably  of  china  or  glass)  which  have  been  wet 
with  cold  water. 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake  (Sixteen  pieces) 

y2  C-butter  2^  C-flour 

1^2  C-sugar  4  t-baking  powder 

2  eggs  1   C-boiling  water 

*4  t-salt  1  t-vanilla 

Caramelize  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  the  sugar 
is  melted  and  reaches  the  light  brown  or  the  "caramel"  stage, 
add  the  water.  Cook  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved 
in  the  water.  Allow  it  to  cool.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the 
rest  of  the  uncooked  sugar,  and  then  add  the  egg-yolks.  Mix 
well.  Add  the  salt,  flour,  baking-powder,  vanilla  and  the 
cooled  liquid.  Beat  two  minutes  and  add  the  egg-whites 
stiffly  beaten.  Pour  into  two  pans  prepared  with  buttered 
paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice 
with  confectioner's  icing. 


JANUARY 

Simpler  meals  and  wiser  buying, 

More  of  planning, — less  of  hurry, - 

More  of  smiling, — less  of  sighing, 

More  of  fun,  and  less  of  worry, 

In  this  New  Year's  Resolution, 

Trouble  finds  a  swift  solution. 


CHAPTER  LIX 
ALICE  COMES  TO  LUNCHEON 


UT  DO    love    to    cook!"    ex- 
■■-    claimed  Alice  enthusiastic- 
ally. 

"And  we  have  had  such  de- 
licious meals  since  we  began  to 
keep  house,  if  I  do  say  it !  But 
oh,  the  bills,  the  bills !  Bettina, 
isn't  it  terrible?  But  you  can't 
get  any  meal  at  all  without  pay- 
ing for  it,  can  you?  I  really  do 
dread  having  Harry  get  the  first 
month's  grocery  bill,  though." 

"You  ought  not  to  have  to  say  that,  Alice,"  said  Bettina, 
laughing  nevertheless.  "Why  don't  you  have  an  allowance, 
and  pay  the  grocery  bill  yourself  ?" 

"Because  I  know  I  could  never  manage  to  pay  it,"  said 
Alice,  making  a  little  face.  "I  do  love  to  have  perfect  little 
meals  and  cooking  is  such  fun,  but  you  just  can't  have  things 
right  without  having  them  expensive;  I've  found  that  out. 
Last  night  we  had  a  simple  enough  dinner — a  very  good  steak 
with  French  fried  potatoes  and  creamed  asparagus  on  toast. 
Then  a  fruit  salad  with  mayonnaise  and  steamed  suet  pudding 

and  coffee.     Harry  said  everything  was  perfect,  but " 

"I'm  sure  it  was,  Alice.     You  are  so  clever  at  everything 


193 


194     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

you  do.  But  wasn't  that  expensive  for  just  a  home  dinner 
for  two?  Steak  and  creamed  asparagus!  And  mayonnaise 
is  so  expensive !     Then  think  of  the  gas  you  use,  too  I" 

"I  didn't  think  of  the  gas,"  said  Alice  ruefully.  "I  thought 
of  Harry's  likes,  and  of  variety,  and  of  a  meal  that  balanced 
well.  But  not  much  about  economy.  I'll  have  to  consult  you, 
Bettina.  I'll  tell  you:  Couldn't  I  plan  my  menus  ahead  for 
a  week,  and  bring  them  over  to  you  to  criticise?  That  would 
be  fun,  and  I'm  sure  you  could  teach  me  a  great  deal." 

"I'd  love  to  have  you,  Alice,"  smiled  Bettina. 

For  luncheon  Bettina  served : 


Chicken  Loaf  Creamed  Potatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  Cranberry  Jelly 

Caramel  Custard  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  Loaf  (Two  portions) 

y2  C-cooked  chicken  J/&  t-celery  salt 

y2  C-ground,  cooked  veal  i  t-chopped  parsley 

x/2  C-soft  bread  crumbs  I  egg 

y2  t-salt  y2  C-milk 

Mix  the  chicken,  veal  and  bread  crumbs.  Add  the  salt, 
celery  salt,  parsley,  egg  and  milk.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
a  well-buttered  pan  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Custard  (Two  portions) 

I  C-milk      4  T-sugar 
3  egg  %  t-salt 

J4  t-vanilla 

Melt  the  sugar  to  a  light  brown  syrup  in  a  sauce  pan  over 
a  hot  fire,  add  the  milk  and  cook  until  free  from  lumps.    Beat 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  195 

the  egg,  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla,  and  pour  the  liquid  slowly 
into  the  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  buttered  moulds.  Set  the 
moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  custard  is  firm  (about  forty  minutes) .  Do  not  let  the  water 
in  the  pan  reach  the  boiling  point  during  the  process  of  baking. 


CHAPTER  LX 
RUTH  STAYS  TO  DINNER 

**  OEE,  Ruth,  it's  snowing  harder — a  perfect  blizzard.    That 

^  means  that  you'll  have  to  stay  to  dinner." 

"I'm  only  too  glad  to  find  an  excuse,  Bettina,  but  you  must 
remember  that  I'll  have  to  get  back  some  time,  and  I  suppose 
that  now  is  best." 

"Well,  Bob  will  take  you  after  dinner.  See,  I've  put  on  a 
place  for  you." 

"That's  fine,  Bettina,  and  I  suppose  I  may  as  well  stay.  I've 
been  anxious  to  ask  you  what  you  were  putting  in  the  oven 
just  as  I  came  in." 

"A  dish  of  tomatoes,  cheese  and  rice  baked  together ;  Bob  is 
fond  of  it.  You  know  I  almost  always  plan  to  have  two  or 
more  oven  dishes  if  I  am  using  the  oven  at  all,  and  tonight  I 
was  making  baked  veal  steak." 

"I  learned  something  new  yesterday,  Bettina,  that  I  have 
been  anxious  to  tell  you.  Mother  was  preparing  cabbage  for 
cold  slaw  (she  always  chops  it,  you  know),  and  it  suddenly 
occurred  to  her  that  she  might  easily  use  the  large  meat 
grinder.  So  she  did,  and  the  slaw  was  delicious.  I  would 
have  supposed  that  the  juice  would  be  pressed  out  in  the 
grinding,  but  it  wasn't." 

"I  must  remember  that.  I  suppose  that  other  people  may 
have  thought  of  it,  but  I  never  have,  and  I'm  glad  to  know 
that  it  works  so  well." 

"I  believe  I  hear  Bob,  Bettina.  He  must  be  cold,  for  it  is 
snowing  and  blowing  harder  every  minute." 


196 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  197 

"Well,  I'm  glad  I  started  the  fire  in  the  fireplace.  There's 
nothing  like  an  open  fire." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

Baked  Veal  Steak 

Baked  Tomato,  Cheese  and  Rice 

Bread  Butter 

Tapioca  and  Date  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Baked  Veal  Steak   (Three  portions) 

I  slice   of  veal   steak   (three-  I  t-salt 

fourths    of    a    pound,    one-  %  t-paprika 

half  inch  thick  2  T-bacon  fat 

3  T-flour  2  T-water 

Wipe  the  veal  and  cut  off  any  rind.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and 
paprika.  Roll  the  steak  thoroughly  in  this  mixture.  Place  the 
bacon  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot  add  the  meat  and 
brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Place  the  drippings  and  the 
meat  in  a  small  baking  pan.  Add  the  water,  cover,  and  place 
in  the  oven.  Cook  one  hour.  More  water  may  be  added  if 
necessary. 

Baked    Tomato,    Cheese    and    Rice    (Three    portions) 

1   C-cooked  rice  %  t-paprika 
1/3  C-tomatoes  1  T-flour 

4  T-cheese,  cut  fine  J/2   C-milk 
1  T-pimento  1  T-melted  butter 

1  t-salt  %  C-cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

Mix  the  rice  and  flour,  and  add  the  tomatoes,  cheese,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  crumbs.  Spread  the  but- 
tered crumbs  on  the  rice  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes. 

Tapioca  and  Date  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

4  T-tapioca  8  dates,  cut  fine 

%  t-salt  1  T-lemon  juice 

2  T-cold  water  1  egg-yolk 

1  C-boiling  water  1  egg-white 

2  T-sugar  1  t-vanilla 


198     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
salt  and  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  trans- 
parent. (About  twenty  minutes.)  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
dates  cut  fine,  the  lemon  juice,  egg-yolk  and  vanilla.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-white.  Pile  the 
mixture  lightly  in  glass  dishes  and  serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  LXI 
HOW  BETTINA  MADE  CANDY 

ff  TRAN  over  this  morning,"  said  Alice  to  Bettina,  "to  get 

-*-  your  candy  recipes.  That  was  such  delicious  Christmas 
candy  that  you  gave  Harry !  Wasn't  it  a  great  deal  of  work 
to  make  so  much  at  a  time?  Perhaps  I  can't  manage  it,  but 
I'd  like  to  make  a  box  of  it  for  Harry's  brother ;  it  will  be  his 
birthday  in  a  few  days." 

"It  is  very  easy  to  make  candy  for  Christmas  boxes,"  said 
Bettina.  "That  is,  it  is  no  harder  to  make  a  large  quantity 
than  to  fill  one  box.  Bob  helped  me  one  evening,  and  we  made 
four  kinds  at  once.  I  had  already  stuffed  some  dates  and 
made  some  candied  orange  peel,  so  you  see  when  the  candy 
was  made,  it  was  fun  to  fill  the  boxes  with  a  variety  of  things. 
I  always  save  boxes  throughout  the  year  for  Christmas  candy, 
and  then  I  fill  them  all  at  once.  Of  course,  until  this  year  I 
didn't  have  Bob  to  help  me;  he  enjoys  it,  you  know,  and  two 
people  can  make  it  so  much  more  quickly  than  one." 

"Next  year,"  said  Alice,  "I  think  I  shall  make  Christmas 
candy — a  quantity  of  it,  so  that  I  can  put  a  box  of  it  in  every 
family  box  that  I  send.  Meanwhile,  I'll  practise  and  ex- 
periment, and  perhaps  I  can  improve  on  the  good  old  recipes, 
or  think  of  clever  ways  of  arranging  and  wrapping.  Now  will 
you  let  me  write  down  some  of  your  best  recipes?  I'll  try 
them  for  Harry's  brother." 

The  candies  that  Bettina  made  were : 

Chocolate   Fudge  White   Fudge 

Peanut  Brittle       Peanut  Fondant 


199 


200     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chocolate  Fudge  (One  pound) 

2  C-sugar  2  squares  or  two  ounces 
I  C-sugar,  "C"  of  chocolate 

Y\  t-cream  of  tartar  i  C-milk 

I  T-butter  I  t-vanilla 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  order  named,  and  cook  until  a  soft 
ball  is  formed  when  a  little  of  the  candy  is  dropped  in  a  glass 
of  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Do 
not  stir  while  cooling.  When  cool,  beat  until  creamy,  add 
vanilla  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  Make  white  fudge 
and  pour  on  top.     When  cool  cut  into  squares. 

White  Fudge  (one  pound) 

3  C-sugar     1/3  t-cream  of  tartar 
y2  C-milk  1  T-butter 

1  t-vanilla 

Mix  and  cook  the  same  as  chocolate  fudge. 

Bettina's  Peanut  Fondant  (One  and  one-half  pound) 

2  C-"C"  sugar  1  T-butter 

y2  C-milk  2/3  C-roasted,  shelled  peanuts 

%  t-cream    of   tartar       J4  t-vanilla 

Cook  the  "C"  sugar,  milk,  cream  of  tartar  and  butter  until 
a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  allow  it  to  cool.  Beat  until  thick  and  creamy  and  add 
the  nuts  and  vanilla.  Shape  into  a  loaf  two  inches  thick  and 
two  inches  wide.  When  cool  and  hard  enough  to  cut,  slice 
into  one-fourth  inch  slices.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  and  pack 
in  boxes. 


CHAPTER  LXII 
RUTH'S  PLANS 

**  A  ND  so>  Bettina,"  said  Ruth,  sitting  down  on  the  high 

■**■  stool  in  Bettina's  neat  little  kitchen,  "Fred  says  we 
will  begin  the  house  early  in  the  spring — as  early  as  possible — 
and  be  married  in  May  or  June." 

"What  perfectly  splendid  news!"  said  Bettina.  "I'm  just 
as  glad  as  I  can  be !" 

"We've  waited  so  long,"  said  Ruth,  wistfully.  "Of  course, 
if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  war — it  did  interfere  so  with  business, 
you  know — we  would  have  been  married  last  spring." 

"I  know,"  said  Bettina,  sympathetically,  "but  you'll  be  all 
the  happier  because  you  have  waited." 

"I'll  want  you  to  help  me  a  great  deal  with  my  plans,"  said 
Ruth.  "I've  had  time  to  do  lots  of  sewing,  of  course,  but  I 
haven't  thought  anything  about  the  wedding  except  that  it  will 
be  a  quiet  one.  And  I  want  to  ask  you  so  much  about  house 
furnishings — curtains,  and  all  that." 

"I'd  love  to  help!"  cried  Bettina  with  enthusiasm.  "There 
isn't  anything  that  is  such  fun.    Oh,  Ruth !" 

"Gracious  me !  What?"  cried  Ruth,  for  Bettina  had  jumped 
up  suddenly. 

"Poor  Ruth,"  laughed  Bettina,  "I  didn't  mean  to  frighten 
you.  I  forgot  my  cake,  that  was  all,  and  I  was  afraid  it  had 
burned.  But  it  hasn't.  A  minute  longer  though — you  know  a 
chocolate  cake  does  burn  so  easily.  But  it's  all  right.  How- 
ever, you  must  admit  that  I  did  pretty  well  not  to  burn  it 
while  I  was  listening  to  wedding  plans !" 


201 


202     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

That  night  Bettina  served  for  dinner : 

Swiss   Steak  Mashed   Sweet   Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Bread  Butter 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Swiss  Steak   (Three  portions) 


i  lb.  of  round 

steak 

two-thirds 

% 

t-pepper 

of  an  inch  thick 

lA 

C-water 

5  T-flour 

i 

T-onion 

i  bay  leaf 

2 

cloves 

lA  t-salt 

I 

T-bacon  fat 

Wipe  the  steak  with  a  damp  cloth,  trim  the  edges  to  remove 
any  gristle,  and  pound  the  flour  into  the  meat,  using  a  side 
nf  a  heavy  plate  for  the  pounding.  This  breaks  up  the  ten- 
dons of  the  meat.  Place  the  bacon  fat  in  a  frying-pan  and 
when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  thoroughly  on  each  side. 
Lower  the  flame.  Add  the  bay  leaf,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
water.  Cover  with  a  lid  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  one 
and  a  half  hours.  More  water  may  be  needed  if  the  gravy 
boils  down.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat  when  serving.  This 
recipe  is  good  for  the  fireless. 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes  (Two  portions) 

3  good-sized  sweet     H  t-salt 

potatoes  i  T-butter 

2  C-water  2  T-milk 

Y\  t-paprika 

Wash  the  potatoes  and  remove  any  bad  places.  Add  the 
water,  and  cook  gently  until  tender.  Drain,  and  peel  while 
still  hot,  by  holding  the  potatoes  on  the  end  of  a  fork.  Mash 
with  a  spoon  or  a  potato  masher,  adding  the  salt,  butter,  milk 
and  paprika.  Beat  one  minute.  Pile  lightly  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  min- 
utes until  a  light  brown. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  203 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 


4 

T-butter 

i 

egg 

2/3 

C-sugar 

y2 

C-milk 

2 

squares  of  chocolate 

i  1/3 

C-flour 

2 

T-sugar 

2 

t-baking 

powder 

2 

T-water 

y2 1- 

y2 

vanilla 

t-soda 

i 

Cook  the  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  water  and  chocolate  to- 
gether for  one  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Cream  the  butter, 
add  the  sugar,  the  whole  egg  and  the  flour,  baking  powder  and 
soda  sifted  together.  Add  the  vanilla.  Beat  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  two  square  layer-cake  pans  prepared  with  waxed 
paper.  Bake  twenty-two  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Choco- 
late cakes  burn  easily  and  they  should  be  carefully  watched 
while  baking. 

Ice  with  White  Mountain  Cream  Icing. 


FEBRUARY. 

Cold  and  snowy  February 
Does  seem  slow  and  trying,  very. 
Still,  a  month  made  gay  by  Cupid 
Never  could  be  wholly  stupid. 


■  t=a-<(-, 


CHAPTER  LXIII 
A  STEAMED  PUDDING 


f  f  HP  HIS  was  a  splendid  din- 


ner, Bettina,"  said  Ruth, 
as  the  two  of  them  were  carrying 
the  dishes  into  the  kitchen  and 
Fred  and  Bob  were  deep  in  con- 
versation in  the  living-room. 
"Such  a  delicious  dessert !  Suet 
pudding,  wasn't  it?  I  couldn't 
guess  all  that  was  in  it." 

"Just  a  steamed  fig  pudding, 
Ruth.    The  simplest  thing  in  the 
world!" 

"Simple?  But  don't  you  have  to  use  a  steamer  to  make  it 
in,  and  isn't  that  awfully  complicated?  I've  always  imagined 
so. 

"You  don't  need  to  use  a  steamer  at  all.  I  steamed  this  in 
my  fireless  cooker,  in  a  large  baking  powder  can.  I  filled  the 
buttered  can  about  two-thirds  full,  and  set  it  in  boiling  water 
that  came  less  than  half  way  up  the  side  of  the  can.  Of  course, 
the  cover  of  the  can  or  the  mould  must  be  screwed  on  tight. 
And  the  utensil  in  which  it  is  steamed  must  be  covered.  I 
used  one  of  the  utensils  that  fit  in  the  fireless,  of  course,  and  I 
brought  the  water  to  a  boil  on  the  stove  so  that  I  was  sure  it 
was  boiling  vigorously  when  I  set  it  in  the  cooker  on  the  siz- 
zlinz  hot  stone.  You  see  it  is  very  simple.  In  fact,  I  think 
steaming  anything  is  very  easy,  for  you  don't  have  to  keep 
watching  it  as  you  would  if  it  were  baking  in  the  oven,  and 
basting  it,  or  changing  the  heat." 


205 


206     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"We  haven't  a  cooker,  you  know.  Could  I  make  a  steamed 
pudding  that  same  way  on  the  stove?" 

"Yes,  indeed  the  very  same  way.  Just  set  the  buttered  can 
filled  two-thirds  full  in  a  larger  covered  utensil  holding  boil- 
ing water.    Keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time." 

"I  shall  certainly  try  it  tomorrow,  Bettina!" 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

Breaded  Veal  Creamed  Potatoes 

Browned  Sauce 

Spinach  with   Hard   Cooked   Eggs 

Bread  Butter 

Spiced  Peaches 

Fig  Pudding  Foamy  Sauce 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Breaded  Veal  (Four  portions) 

1  lb.  veal  round  steak,  cut  one-half  an  inch   thick 
i  T-egg   (either  the  white  or  the  yolk) 

i  T-water 
2/3  C-cracker  crumbs,  or  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  T-lard 
}4  t-salt 

1  T-butter 
%  t-paprika 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  cut  into  four  pieces. 
Mix  the  egg,  water,  salt  and  paprika,  and  dip  each  piece  of 
meat  into  the  egg  mixture.  Roll  in  the  crumbs  and  pat  the 
crumbs  into  the  meat.  Place  the  lard  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
when  hot,  add  the  meat.  Brown  well  on  one  side,  and  then 
turn,  allowing  the  other  side  to  become  the  same  even  color. 
Lower  the  flame  under  the  meat,  and  cook  thirty  minutes, 
keeping  the  pan  covered.  When  the  meat  has  cooked  twenty- 
five  minutes,  add  the  butter  to  lend  flavor  to  the  lard. 

Browned  Gravy  (Four  portions) 

1  T-butter      y2  t-salt 

2  T-flour        y2  C-water 

YA  C-milk 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  207 

Remove  the  breaded  veal  from  the  pan,  and  place  on  a  hot 
flatter.  (Keep  in  a  warm  place.)  Loosen  all  the  small  pieces 
of  crackers  and  meat  (if  there  are  any)  from  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  If  there  is  no  fat  left,  add  butter.  Allow  the  fat  to 
get  hot,  and  add  flour  and  salt.  Mix  well  with  the  heated  fat, 
and  allow  to  brown.  Stir  constantly,  and  add  the  water.  Mix 
well,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  of  milk.  Allow  to  cook  one 
minute,  stirring  constantly.  If  a  thinner  sauce  is  desired,  add 
another  one- fourth  of  a  cup  of  milk.  If  a  thicker  sauce  is 
desired,  allow  to  cook  for  two  minutes. 

Bcttina'B  Steamed  Fig  Pudding   (Four  portions) 

I  C-flour  ]/2   C-molasses 

y2  t-soda  y2   C-milk 

l/2  t-ginger  y2  C-suet,  chopped  fine 

2/3  t-cinnamon     1/3  C-chopped  figs 
54  t-nutmeg        1/3  C-stoned  raisins 
l/2  t-lemon  extract 

Mix  the  flour,  soda,  ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  suet. 
Add  the  figs,  raisins,  molasses  and  milk.  Stir  well.  Add  the 
lemon  extract.  Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding  mould  two-thirds 
full.  Steam  an  hour  and  a  half,  with  the  water  boiling.  Serve 
hot  with  foamy  sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

I  egg  y2  C-hot  water 

y2  C-sugar  1  T-lemon  juice  or  1  t-lemon  ex- 

tract 

Beat  the  egg  vigorously.  Add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add 
the  hot  water  and  stir  vigorously.  Add  the  lemon  juice.  Serve, 
(This  sauce  may  be  reheated  if  desired.) 


CHAPTER  LXIV 
ON  VALENTINE'S  DAY 

**"D  OB,  the  flowers  are  lovely!"  said  Bettina,  looking  again 

■*-'  at  the  brilliant  tulips  on  the  dinner  table.  "They  make 
this  a  real  valentine  dinner,  although  there  is  nothing  festive 
about  it.  I  had  intended  to  plan  something  special,  but  I  went 
to  a  valentine  luncheon  at  Mary's,  and  stayed  so  late " 

"A  valentine  luncheon  ?  With  red  hearts  cveiywncrc,  J  sup- 
pose ?" 

i<v^3,  everything  heart-shaped,  and  in  red,  too,  as  far  as 
possible.  Mary  had  twelve  guests  at  one  large  round  table. 
Of  course,  there  were  strings  and  strings  of  red  hearts  of  va- 
rious sizes  decorating  the  table — not  a  very  new  idea,  of 
course,  but  so  effective.  And  everything  tasted  so  good ;  cream 
of  tomato  soup,  the  best  stuffed  tenderloin  with  mushroom 
sauce  (I  must  find  out  how  that  is  made),  and  the  best  sweet 
potato  croquettes !" 

"Sweet  potato  croquettes?    That's  a  new  one  on  me!" 

"I'll  have  to  try  them  some  time  soon.  And  Mary  had  peas 
in  heart-shaped  baking  powder  biscuits — the  cunningest  you 
ever  saw ! — heart-shaped  date  bread  sandwiches  with  her 
salad,  and  heart-shaped  ice  cream  with  individual  heart  cakes." 

"That  was  Valentine's  day  with  a  vengeance ;  wasn't  it  ?" 

"Yes,  but  it  was  lovely,  Bob !" 

That  night  Bettina  served : 

Broiled   Steak  Baked  Potatoes 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes  and  Green  Peppers 

Bread  Butter. 

Cornstarch   Fruit  Pudding 

Cherry  Sauce 

Coffee 

208 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  209 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Macaroni,  Tomatoes  and  Green  Peppers   (Three  portions) 

1/3  C-macaroni  %  t-celery  salt 

3  C-water  %  t-onion  salt 
I  t-salt  3  T-cheese,  cut  fine 

1  C-canned  tomatoes  2/3  C-meat  stock  or  milk 

3  T-chopped   green   pepper  %   C-crumbs 
YA  t-salt  1  T-butter 

Boil  the  water,  add  the  salt.  Add  the  macaroni  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Boil  until  tender  (about  fifteen  minutes)  and  drain. 
Butter  a  baking  dish.  Add  a  layer  of  macaroni,  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  some  green  pepper.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  celery 
and  onion  salt.  Add  the  cheese,  and  continue  with  the  layers 
until  the  dish  is  full.  If  available,  use  meat  stock,  if  not,  milk. 
Pour  the  liquid  over  the  mixture.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the 
crumbs  and  place  on  the  top  of  the  food.  Place  the  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  allow  to  bake  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until 
brown. 

Corn  Starch  Fruit  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-water    _  %  t-salt 

y2  C-cherry  juice       3  T-sugar 
3  T-corn  starch       1  egg-yolk 
1  egg-white 

Mix  thoroughly  the  corn  starch,  sugar  and  salt.  Gradually 
add  the  cold  water  and  then  the  juice.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  the  mixture  becomes  quite  thick.  Add  the  egg-yolk.  Mix 
well,  cool  slightly  and  add  the  egg-white  stiffly  beaten.  Pour 
into  a  well-moistened  custard  mould.  Allow  to  stand  for 
half  an  hour  or  more.    Serve  with  cherry  sauce. 

Cherry  Sauce  (Three  portions) 

y2  C-cherry   juice     */*  t-lemon  extract 
y2  C-water  y8  t-salt 

1  T-flour  2  T-sugar 

*4   C-cherries,   cut  fine 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  slowly  the  cherry  juice 
and  water.  Cook  two  minutes.  Add  the  cherries  and  extract. 
Serve  hot  over  the  cold  pudding. 


CHAPTER  LXV 
WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY  PLANS 

Hf~^  OOD  bran  bread,"  said  Bob,  reaching  for  another  piece. 

^J  "I  like  that  recipe,"  said  Bettina,  "and  it  is  so  easy 
to  make." 

"What  have  you  been  doing  all  day?"  Bob  asked,  "Cook- 
ing?" 

"No,  indeed.  Charlotte  was  here  this  afternoon  and  we 
made  plans  for  the  tea  we  are  going  to  give  at  her  house  on 
Washington's  birthday.  Oh,  Bob,  we  have  some  of  the  best 
ideas  for  it !  Our  refreshments  are  to  be  served  from  the  din- 
ing-room table,  you  know,  and  our  central  decoration  is  to  be 
a  three-cornered  black  hat  filled  with  artificial  red  cherries. 
Of  course  we'll  have  cherry  ice,  and  serve  cherries  in  the  tea, 
Russian  style.  The  salad  will  be  served  in  little  black  three- 
cornered  hats ;  these  filled  with  fruit  salad,  will  be  set  on  the 
table  and  each  guest  will  help  herself.  The  thin  bread  and 
butter  sandwiches  will  be  cut  in  hatchet  shape.  And — oh,  yes, 
I  forgot  the  cunningest  idea  of  all !  We'll  serve  tiny  gilt  hatch- 
ets stuck  in  tree-trunks  of  fondant  rolled  in  cocoanut  and 
toasted  brown.  Isn't  that  a  clever  plan?  Charlotte  saw  it 
done  once,  and  says  it  is  very  effective." 

"It  sounds  like  some  party !  And  I'll  feel  especially  en- 
thusiastic if  you  don't  forget  to  plan  for  one  guest  who  won't 
appear — or  perhaps  I  should  say  two,  for  I  know  Frank  won't 
want  to  be  forgotten." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bob  and  Bettina  had: 

Corned  Beef  au  Gratin  Baked  Tomatoes 

Apple  Sauce 

Gluten    Bread  Butter 

Cream  Pie  Coffee 


210 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  211 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Corned  Beef  au  Gratin  (Three  portions) 

V/2  C-milk  2  T-butter 

y2  slice  of  onion  I  egg 

1  piece    of    celery       I  t-salt 

2  T-flour  J4  t-paprika 

i  C-chopped  corned  beef 

Place  the  milk,  onion  and  celery  over  the  fire.  Allow  to  get 
very  hot.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  celery  and  onion  from  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  flour.  Mix  well  and  slowly  add  the  milk.  Cook  until 
the  consistency  of  white  sauce.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  the 
salt,  paprika,  and  beef.  Pour  into  well-buttered  individual 
dishes. 

Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  oven  and  allow  to  stand  two  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  moulds  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Tomatoes  and  Cheese  (Three  portions) 

I  C-canned  tomatoes     J4  C-fresh  bread  crumbs 
y2  t-salt  3  T-cheese,  cut  fine 

J4  t-paprika  lA  C-cooked  celery 

i  T-butter 

Mix  the  tomatoes,  salt,  paprika,  cheese  and  celery.  Add 
half  the  bread  crumbs.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  remaining  crumbs  and  place  on  top 
of  the  mixture.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gluten  Bread  (Ten  slices) 

I  C-gluten  flour  2  T-sugar 

V/2  t-baking    powder  1/3  C-milk 

%  t-salt  1/3  C-water 

54  C-bran  1  t-melted  butter 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  bran  and  sugar.  Add 
the  milk  and  water.  Beat  vigorously  for  one  minute  and 
then  add  the  butter.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  bread  pan  and 
bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER   LXVI 
AN  AFTERNOON  WITH  BETTINA 

WHEN  Bettina  pushed  her  tea  cart  into  the  living-room, 
Alice  and  Ruth  laid  aside  the  mending  at  which  they 
had  been  busy. 

"What  delicious  toast,  Bettina  I"  said  Alice,  taking  one  bite. 
"Why,  it  has  cinnamon  on  it !  And  sugar !  I  wondered  what 
nn.  earth  you  were  making  that  smelled  so  good,  and  this  is 
something  new  to  me  l" 

"It  is  cinnamon  toast/'  said  Bettina,  "and  so  easy  to  make. 
I  was  busy  all  morning,  and  didn't  have  time  to  make  any- 
thing but  these  date  kisses  for  tea,  but  cinnamon  toast  can  be 
made  so  quickly  that  I  decided  to  serve  it." 

"I  like  orange  marmalade,  too,  Bettina,"  said  Alice.  "I 
wish  I  had  made  some.  I  have  spiced  peaches,  and  a  little 
jelly,  but  that  is  all.  Next  summer  I  intend  to  have  a  perfect 
orgy  of  canning.  Then  my  cupboard  will  be  even  better 
stocked  than  Bettina's — perhaps!  I  opened  a  jar  of  spiced 
peaches  last  evening  for  dinner,  and  what  do  you  think !  Harry 
ate  every  peach  in  the  jar !  I  had  expected  them  to  last  sev- 
eral days,  too." 

"I  hoped  you  saved  the  juice,"  said  Bettina. 

"I  did,  but  I  don't  know  why.  It  seemed  too  good  to  throw 
away,  somehow." 

"Have  you  ever  eaten  ham  cooked  in  the  juice  of  pickled 
peaches  ?  It's  delicious.  Just  cover  the  slice  of  ham  with  the 
juice  and  cook  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  very  tender.  Then 
remove  it  from  the  juice  and  serve  it." 

"It  sounds  fine.    I'll  do  it  tomorrow." 


212 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  213 

That  afternoon  Bettina  served : 

Cinnamon  Toast  Tea 

Orange  Marmalade 
Date  Kisses 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Cinnamon  Toast  (Six  portions) 

6  slices  of  stale  bread    1/3  C-powdered  sugar 
2  T-butter  l/2  t-cinnamon 

Make  a  delicate  brown  toast  and  butter  each  slice.  Mix  the 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  place  in  a  shaker.  Shake  the  de- 
sired quantities  of  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  hot  buttered 
toast.    Keep  in  a  warm  place  until  ready  to  serve. 

Bettina's  Date  Kisses  (One  dozen) 

I  egg-white  JA  t-baking  powder 

H  t-salt  Ya  C-chopped  dates 

Yz  C-powdered  sugar     Y\  C-chopped  nut  meats 
Y*  t-lemon  extract 

Add  the  salt  to  the  white  of  an  eggy  and  beat  the  egg-white 
very  stiff.  Then  add  the  sugar,  baking  powder,  nuts,  dates 
and  lemon  extract.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  a  buttered 
pan.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned.  (About 
twenty-five  minutes.) 

Orange  Marmalade  (One  pint) 

3  oranges     y2  grapefruit 
2  lemons  Sugar 

Wash  thoroughly  the  rinds  of  the  fruits.  Weigh  the  fruit, 
and  slice  it  evenly.  To  each  pound  of  fruit,  add  one  quart  of 
cold  water.  Let  the  mixture  stand  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Drain.  Weigh  the  cooked  fruit, 
and  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Cook  with  the  sugar  for 
thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  stiffens  slightly  when  tried  on  a  dish. 
Pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  When  cool  seal  with  hot 
paraffin. 


CHAPTER  LXVII 
A  WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY  TEA 

WHEN  the  tea  guests  were  ushered  into  Charlotte's  din- 
ing-room that  afternoon,  they  were  delighted  with  the 
table  and  its  red,  white  and  blue  decorations.  In  the  center 
was  a  large  three-cornered  hat  made  of  black  paper,  and 
heaped  with  artificial  red  cherries.  The  cherry  ice  was  tinted 
red,  and  served  in  sherbet  glasses.  A  large  white  cake,  uncut, 
was  one  of  the  chief  decorations,  for  halves  of  red  cherries 
were  placed  together  on  it  to  represent  a  bunch  of  cherries, 
while  tiny  lines  of  chocolate  icing  represented  the  stems. 

Bettina  poured  the  tea  and  placed  in  each  cup  a  red  cherry. 
The  guests  helped  themselves  to  trays,  napkins,  forks  and 
spoons,  and  each  took  a  portion  of  Washington  salad,  served 
in  a  small,  black,  three-cornered  hat,  lined  with  waxed  paper. 
Each  took  also  a  rolled  sandwich,  tied  with  red,  white  and  blue 
ribbon,  and  a  nut  bread  sandwich  in  the  shape  of  a  hatchet. 

The  Washington  fondant,  rolled  in  cocoanut  and  toasted  to 
represent  tree  trunks,  with  small  gilt  hatchets  stuck  in  them, 
occasioned  great  delight.  "How  did  you  ever  think  of  it?" 
Ruth  asked,  and  Bettina  gave  Charlotte  the  credit,  though  she 
in  turn  disclaimed  any  originality  in  the  matter. 

"One  thing  is  lacking,"  said  Bettina.  "Charlotte  and  I 
should  be  wearing  colonial  costumes.  We  did  think  of  it,  but 
happened  to  be  too  busy  to  make  them." 

That  afternoon  Charlotte  and  Bettina  served: 


214 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  215 

George  Washington  Salad 

Rolled  Sandwiches  Nut  Bread  Sandwiches 

Cherry  Ice 

Cherry  Cake  Washington  Fondant 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Washington  Salad   (Twelve  portions) 

I  C-diced  pineapple  rA  C-Brazil  nuts,  cut  fine 

I  C-marshmallows,  cut  fine  1^2   C-salad  dressing 

I  C-grapefruit,  cut  in  cubes  y2  C-whipped  cream 
I  C-canned  seeded  white  cherries         6  red  cherries 
Y\  C-filberts  12  tiny  silk  flags 

Mix  the  pineapple,  marshmallows,  grapefruit,  white  cherries 
and  nuts.  Add  the  salad  dressing.  Serve  immediately.  Place 
waxed  paper  in  the  paper  cups  of  the  small,  black,  three-cor- 
nered hats.  Place  one  serving  of  salad  in  each  cup.  Put  one 
teaspoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  and  half  a  cherry  on  that. 
Stick  a  tiny  silk  American  flag  into  each  portion. 

Nut  Bread  for  Sandwiches  (Twenty-four  sandwiches) 

2  C-graham  flour  2/3  C-sugar 
I  C-white  flour  il/2  t-salt 

3  t-baking  powder       y2  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 
1  egg  iY2  C-milk 

Mix  the  flours,  baking  powder,  salt,  nut  meats  and  sugar. 
Break  the  tgg  in  the  milk  and  add  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix 
thoroughly,  pour  into  a  well-buttered  bread  pan  and  allow  to 
rise  for  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifty 
minutes. 

Nut  Bread  Sandwiches 

24  pieces  bread    2/3  C-butter 

When  the  nut  bread  is  one  day  old,  cut  in  very  thin  slices. 
Cream  the  butter  and  spread  one  piece  of  bread  carefully  with 
butter.  Place  another  piece  on  the  top.  Press  firmly.  Make 
all  the  sandwiches  in  this  way.  Allow  to  stand  in  a  cool,  damp 
place  for  one  hour.  Make  a  paper  hatchet  pattern.  Lay  the 
pattern  on  top  of  each  sandwich  and  with  a  sharp  knife,  trace 


216     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

around  the  pattern.  Cut  through  carefully  and  the  sand- 
wiches will  resemble  hatchets.  This  is  not  difficult  to  do  and 
is  very  effective. 

Washington's  Birthday  Sandwiches 

I  loaf    of    white    bread    one    day    old 

8  T-butter 

2  yards  each  of  red,  white  and  blue  ribbon 

Cut  the  bread  very  thin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Remove  all 
crusts.  Place  a  damp  cloth  around  the  prepared  slices  when 
very  moist,  and  tender.  Spread  with  butter  which  has  been 
creamed  with  a  fork  until  soft.  Roll  the  sandwiches  up  care- 
fully like  a  roll  of  paper.  Cut  the  ribbon  into  six-inch  strips, 
and  tie  around  the  sandwiches.  Place  in  a  bread  box  to  keep 
moist.    Pile  on  a  plate  in  log  cabin  fashion. 


CHAPTER  LXVIII 
ANOTHER  OVEN  DINNER 

BETTINA  heard  a  step  on  the  porch,  and  quickly  laying 
aside  her  kitchen  apron,  rushed  to  the  door  to  meet  Bob. 
Her  rather  hilarious  greeting  was  checked  just  in  time,  at  sight 
of  a  tall  figure  behind  him. 

"Bettina,  this  is  Mr.  MacGregor,  of  MacGregor  &  Hopkins, 
you  know.  Mr.  MacGregor,  my  wife,  Bettina.  I've  been  try- 
ing to  get  you  all  afternoon  to  tell  you  I  was  bringing  a  guest 
to  dinner  and  to  spend  the  night.  The  storm  seems  to  have 
affected  the  lines. " 

"Oh,  it  has !  I've  been  alone  all  day !  Haven't  talked  to  a 
soul!  Welcome,  Mr.  MacGregor,  I  planned  Bob's  particular 
kind  of  a  dinner  tonight,  and  it  may  not  suit  you  at  all,  but 
I'm  glad  to  see  you,  anyhow." 

Mr.  MacGregor  murmured  something  dignified  but  indis- 
tinct, as  Bob  cried  out  heartily,  "Well,  it  smells  good,  anyhow, 
so  I  guess  you  can  take  a  chance ;  eh,  MacGregor  ?" 

Bettina  had  a  hazy  idea  that  Mr.  MacGregor,  of  MacGregor 
&  Hopkins,  was  somebody  very  important  with  whom  Bob's 
firm  did  business,  and  although  she  knew  also  that  Bob  had 
know  "Mac,"  as  he  called  him,  years  before  in  a  way  that  was 
slightly  more  personal,  her  manner  was  rather  restrained  as 
she  ushered  them  into  the  dining-room  a  few  minutes  later. 
However,  the  little  meal  was  so  appetizing,  and  the  guest 
seemed  so  frankly  appreciative,  that  conversation  soon  flowed 
freely.  Bob's  frank  comments  were  sometimes  embarrassing, 
for  instance  when  he  said  such  things  as  this: 

217 


218     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Matrimony  has  taught  me  a  lot,  MacGregor !  I've  learned 
— well,  now,  you'd  never  think  that  all  this  dinner  was  cooked 
in  the  oven,  would  you?  Well,  it  was:  baked  ham,  baked 
potatoes,  baked  apples,  and  the  cakes — Bettina's  cakes,  I  call 
'em.  You  see,  my  wife  thinks  of  things  like  that — a  good  din- 
ner and  saving  gas,  too !" 

"Oh,  Bob !"  said  Bettina,  with  a  scarlet  face. 

"You  needn't  be  embarrassed,  Bettina,  it's  so!  I  was  just 
telling  'Mac'  as  we  came  in,  that  two  can  live  more  cheaply 
than  one  provided  the  other  one  is  like  you — always  coaxing 
me  to  add  to  our  bank  account.  It's  growing,  too,  and  I  never 
could  save  before  I  was  married !" 

The  dinner  consisted  of : 

Baked  Ham  Baked  Potatoes 

Head  Lettuce  Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing 

Bread  Butter 

Baked   Apples 

Bettina's  Cakes 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Baked  Ham  (Three  portions) 
(Bob  calls  it  "great") 

I  lb.  slice  of  ham  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick 
14  cloves  y2  C-water 

y2  C-vinegar  2  T-sugar 

2  t-mustard 

Remove  the  rind  from  ham.  Stick  the  cloves  into  both  sides. 
Place  in  a  pan  just  the  size  of  the  meat.  Pour  the  vinegar, 
water,  sugar  and  mustard  (well  mixed)  over  the  ham.  Baste 
frequently.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crisp  and  tender 
(about  forty-five  minutes). 

Head  Lettuce  with  Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing  (Three  portions) 

1  head   of   lettuce     lA  t-pepper 
y2  t-salt  Y\  C-Roquefort  cheese 

3  T-oil  1  T-vinegar 

Cream  the  cheese,  add  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Add  the 
oil  gradually.  Mix  well,  shake  thoroughly.  Pour  over  the  let- 
tuce and  serve. 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  219 

Baked  Apples  (Four  portions) 

4  apples  I  t-cinnamon 

6  T-brown  sugar  4  marshmallows 

4  T-granulated  sugar     1  t-butter 

Wash  and  core  apples  of  uniform  size.  Mix  the  sugar  and 
cinnamon  together.  Fill  the  apples.  Press  a  marshmallow 
in  each  apple  also.  Dot  the  top  with  a  piece  of  butter.  Place 
the  apples  in  a  pan,  add  the  remaining  sugar,  cover  the  bottom 
with  water,  and  bake  until  tender  (twenty-five  to  thirty  min- 
utes), basting  often.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Bettina's  Cakes  (Eight  cakes) 

1  C-flour  l/2  t-soda 

1/2  t-cinnamon  Ya,  t-baking  powder 

54  t-powdered  cloves     14  t-salt 
1/3  C-sugar  1  egg 

2  T-melted  butter       1/3  C-sour  milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  egg  and  the  sour 
milk.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  the  melted  butter;  beat  one 
minute.  Fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans  one-half  full.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 


CHAPTER  LXIX 

BOB  MAKES  POP-OVERS 

"DETTINA  was  busily  setting  the  table  in  the  dining-room 
■*-*  when  Bob  appeared. 

"Oh,  Bettina,"  said  he  in  a  disappointed  tone,  "why  not  eat 
in  the  breakfast  alcove?  I'd  like  to  show  MacGregor  how 
much  fun  we  have  every  morning." 

"Won't  he  think  we're  being  too  informal  ?" 

"I  want  him  to  think  us  informal.  The  trouble  with  him 
is  that  he  doesn't  know  that  any  simple  brand  of  happiness 
exists.  His  life  is  too  complex.  Of  course  we're  not  exactly 
primitive — with  our  electric  percolator  and  toaster " 

"Sorry,  Bob,  but  you  can't  use  the  toaster  this  morning ;  I'm 
about  to  stir  up  some  pop-overs." 

"Well,  I'll  forgive  you  for  taking  away  my  toy,  inasmuch 
as  I  do  like  pop-overs.  Let  me  help  you  with  them,  Bettina; 
this  is  one  place  where  you  can  use  my  strong  right  arm." 

"Yes,  indeed  I  can,  Bob.  I'll  never  forget  those  splendid 
pop-overs  that  you  made  the  first  time  you  ever  tried.  They 
look  simple,  but  not  very  many  people  can  make  good  ones. 
The  secret  of  it  is  all  in  the  beating,"  said  she,  as  she  stirred 
up  the  smooth  paste,  "and  then  in  having  the  gem  pans  and 
the  oven  very  hot." 

"Well,  these'll  be  good  ones  then,"  said  Bob,  as  he  set  about 
his  task.  "You  light  the  oven,  Betty,  and  put  the  gem  pans  in 
it,  and  then  before  you  have  changed  things  from  the  dining- 
room  to  the  alcove,  I'll  have  these  pop-overs  popping  away 
just  as  they  ought  to  do !" 

The  percolator  was  bubbling  and  the  pop-overs  were  nearly 
done  when  they  heard  Mr.  MacGregor's  step.    "He's  exactly 

220 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  221 

on  time,"  chuckled  Bob.  "That's  the  kind  of  a  methodical  fel- 
low he  is  in  everything." 

"Well,  there's  no  time  when  promptness  is  more  appreciated 
than  at  meal-time,"  said  Betty,  decidedly.     "I  like  him." 

"Come  on  out  here!"  called  Bob,  cheerfully.  "This  is  the 
place  in  which  we  begin  the  day !  We'll  show  you  the  kind  of 
a  breakfast  that'll  put  some  romance  into  your  staid  old  head. 
I  made  the  pop-overs  myself,  and  I  know  they're  the  best  you 
ever  saw — likewise  the  biggest — and  they'll  soon  be  the  best 
you've  ever  eaten !" 

When  Bob  had  finished  removing  the  pop-overs  from  their 
pans,  the  two  men  took  their  places  at  the  table  to  the  merry 
tune  of  the  sizzling  bacon  Bettina  was  broiling. 

"I  never  entertained  a  stranger  so  informally  before,"  said 
she. 

"And  I  was  never  such  a  comfortable  guest  as  I  am  at  this 
minute,"  said  Mr.  MacGregor,  looking  down  at  his  breakfast, 
which  consisted  of: 

Grapefruit 

Oatmeal 

Bacon  Pop-Overs 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pop-Overs  (Eight) 

I  C-flour      y2  t-salt 

i  C-milk        i  egg,  beaten  well 

Add  the  milk  slowly  to  the  flour  and  salt,  stirring  constantly, 
until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Beat  and  add  the  remainder 
of  the  milk,  and  the  egg.  Beat  vigorously  for  three  minutes. 
Fill  very  hot  gem  pans  three-fourths  full.  Bake  thirty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  They  are  done  when  they  have  "popped"  at 
least  twice  their  size,  and  when  they  slip  easily  out  of  the  pan. 
Iron  pans  are  the  best. 


MARCH. 

Weary  are  we  of  our  winter-time  fare; 

Hasten,  O  Springtime,  elusive  and  arch! 
Bring  us  your  dainties;  our  cupboards  are  bare! 

Pity  us,  starved  by  tyrannical  March! 


CHAPTER  LXX 
IN  MARCH 

GGOPRING  is  in  the  air," 
^  thought  Bettina,  as  she 
opened  the  casement  windows 
of  her  sun  room.  "I  believe  we'll 
have  dinner  out  here  tonight.  If 
Bob  would  only  come  home 
early,  before  the  sun  goes  down ! 
Now  I  wonder  who  that  can  be !" 
(For  she  heard  a  knock  at  the 
kitchen  door.) 

"Why,  Charlotte.  Come  in!" 
she  cried  a  moment  later,  for  it  was  Mrs.  Dixon  with  a  nap- 
kin-covered pan  in  hand,  whom  she  found  at  the  door. 

"I've  brought  you  some  light  rolls  for  your  dinner,  Bet- 
tina," said  Charlotte.  "I  don't  make  them  often,  and  when  I 
do,  I  make  more  than  we  can  eat.  Will  they  fit  into  your  din- 
ner menu?" 

"Indeed  they  will!"  said  Bettina.  "I'm  delighted  to  get 
them.  Now  I  wish  I  had  something  to  send  back  with  you 
for  your  dinner,  but  I  seem  to  have  cooked  too  little  of  every- 
thing !" 

"Don't  you  worry,"  said  Charlotte,  heartily.  "When  I  think 
of  all  the  things  you've  done  for  me,  I'm  only  too  glad  to  offer 
you  anything  I  have !  Well,  I  must  hurry  home  to  get  our 
dinner.  That  reminds  me,  Bettina,  to  ask  you  this:  When 
you  escallop  anything,  do  you  dot  the  crumbs  on  top  with 
butter?" 

"No,  Charlotte,  I  melt  the  butter,  add  the  crumbs,  stir  them 


224     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

well,  and  then  spread  them  on  the  top  of  the  escalloped  oys- 
ters, or  fish,  or  whatever  I  am  escalloping." 

"I'm  glad  to  know  the  right  way  of  doing,  Bettina.  Good* 
bye,  dear." 

For  dinner  Bob  and  Bettina  had: 

Ham  Timbales  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Baked  Apples 

Light   Rolls  Butter 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Chocolate  Custard  Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Ham  Timbales  (Three  timbales) 

I  C-ground,  cooked  ham     %  t-paprika 
1/3  C-soft  bread   crumbs         1  egg 
%  t-salt  y2   C-milk 

Mix  the  ham,  salt,  crumbs  and  paprika.  Add  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  and  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  tin  or  alum- 
inum individual  moulds.  Place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Unmould  on  a  plat- 
ter.   Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Grapefruit  Salad  (Two  portions) 

1  C-grapefruit,  cut  in  cubes  2  T-cottage  cheese 

%   C-marshmallows,  cut  in  squares  *4   t-paprika 

%   C-diced  celery  3  T-salad  dressing 

%    t-salt  2  lettuce  leaves 

Place  the  lettuce  leaves  on  the  serving  plates.  Arrange  care- 
fully portions  of  grapefruit,  marshmallows,  celery  and  cheese 
upon  the  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika.  Pour  the 
salad  dressing  over  each  portion  and  serve  cold. 

Chocolate  Custard  (Two  portions) 

I  C-milk  1/3  square  of  chocolate,  melted 

1  large   egg  1  T-water 

4  T-sugar  V2  t-vanilla 

l/&  t-salt 

Cook  half  the  sugar,  the  chocolate  and  the  water  until  smooth 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  225 

and  creamy  (two  minutes).  Add  the  milk  while  the  mixture  is 
hot.  Stir  until  smooth.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
and  the  salt.  Add  to  the  custard  mixture.  Mix  well.  Pour 
into  two  well-buttered  custard  moulds.  Place  the  moulds  in  a 
pan  surrounded  by  hot  water.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook 
until  a  knife  piercing  it  will  come  out  clean.  (Generally  thirty 
minutes.)  Allow  to  stand  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  place. 
Unmould  and  serve  cold. 


CHAPTER  LXXI 
A  FIRELESS  COOKER  FOR  AUNT  LUCY 

"TIT  ELL,  Uncle  John!  Hello!"  said  Bob,  as  he  came 
▼  »      into  the  kitchen.    "Is  Aunt  Lucy  here,  too  ?" 

"No,  she  isn't,"  said  Uncle  John,  shaking  his  head  solemnly, 
"and  the  fact  is,  I  shouldn't  be  here  myself  if  it  weren't  for  a 
sort  of  conspiracy;  eh,  Bettina?" 

"That's  so,  Bob,"  said  Bettina,  coming  in  from  the  dining- 
room,  her  hands  full  of  dishes,  "and  now  I  suppose  we'll  have 
to  let  you  in  on  the  secret.  Uncle  John  has  just  bought  a 
beautiful  new  fireless  cooker  for  Aunt  Lucy.  Haven't  you, 
Uncle  John?" 

"Well!"  said  Bob,  heartily.  "That's  fine!  How  did  you 
happen  to  think  of  it  ?" 

"Well  Bob,  she's  been  dreading  the  summer  on  the  farm — 
not  feeling  so  very  strong  lately,  you  know — and  this  morn- 
ing she  was  just  about  discouraged.  It's  next  to  impossible 
to  get  any  help  out  there — she  says  she's  given  up  that  idea — 
and  at  breakfast  she  told  me  that  if  the  spring  turned  out  to  be 
a  hot,  uncomfortable  one,  she  believed  she'd  go  out  and  spend 
the  summer  with  Lem's  girl  in  Colorado.  I  naturally  hate  to 
have  her  do  that,  so  I  concluded  to  do  everything  I  could  to 
keep  her  at  home.  I  telephoned  to  Bettina,  and  she  promised 
to  help  me.  The  very  first  thing  she  suggested  was  a  fireless 
cooker,  and  we  bought  that  today.  I  believe  your  Aunt  Lucy'll 
like  it,  too." 

For  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Meat  Balls  with  Egg  Sauce 

Baked   Potatoes 

Creamed  Peas 

Marshmallow   Pudding  Chocolate   Sauct 


226 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  227 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Meat  Balls  (Three  portions) 

1  C-raw  beef,  cut  fine     %  t-paprika 

%  C-bread  crumbs  i  t-chopped  parsley 

2  T-milk  %  t-onion  salt 
i  egg-yolk                          x/\  t-celery  salt 

}4  t-salt  3  T-bacon  fat 

Soak  the  crumbs,  milk  and  egg  together  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  beef,  salt,  paprika,  parsley,  onion  and  celery  salt. 
Shape  into  flat  cakes  one  inch  thick,  two  and  a  half  inches  in 
diameter.  Place  the  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot,  add 
the  cakes.  Lower  the  flame  and  cook  seven  minutes  over  a 
moderate  fire,  turning  to  brown  evenly.  Serve  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter.   Garnish  with  parsley.    Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Meat  Balls  (Three  portions) 

3  T-flour  %  t-salt 

2  T-butter  %  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped  parsley  I  hard-cooked  tggt 

I  C-milk  cut  fine 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Add  the  hard-cooked 
egg  sliced,  or  cut  in  small  pieces.  Serve  hot  with  the  meat 
balls. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  (Three  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin       y2  C-boiling  water 
2  T-cold  water  i  t-lemon  extract 

1/3  C-sugar  i  t-vanilla 

I  egg-white 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  for  three  minutes.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  the  sugar. 
Allow  to  cool.  Beat  the  egg-white  stiff.  When  the  gelatin 
begins  to  congeal,  beat  it  until  fluffy,  add  the  extracts  and 
then  the  egg-white.  Beat  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  moistened 
cake  pan.  When  hard  and  cold,  remove  from  the  pan,  cut  in 
one  inch  cubes  and  pile  in  a  glass  dish. 


CHAPTER  LXXII 
A  SUNDAY  NIGHT  TEA 

ff  QTIR  this  chicken  a  la  king  a  moment  for  me,  will  you, 
■3    Ruth  ?"  said  Bettina.    "I'll  warm  the  plates  in  the  oven." 
"What  is  that  brown  paper  for  ?" 
"To  put  under  the  dishes  I'm  warming.    It  breaks  the  heat 

and  prevents  cracking.     There,  that  cream  sauce  has  cooked 

enough  now.    I'll  take  it  and  beat  it  for  a  minute.    See  ?  There, 

now  it's  ready  for  the  egg  and  the  chicken  mixture." 

"Shall  I  stir  it  now?    Don't  you  put  it  back  over  the  fire?" 
"Just  for  a  minute.    You  see,  if  any  custard  or  egg  sauce 

is  allowed  to  cook  more  than  a  minute  after  the  egg  has  been 

added,  it  will  curdle." 

"Oh,  is  it  done  now  ?    Let  me  toast  the  bread  for  it,  will  you, 

Bettina?    I  like  to  make  cunning  little  light  brown  triangles." 
"I  hope  I  have  made  enough  of  this  chicken  a  la  king." 
"For  eight  people?    I'm  sure  that  you  have,  Bettina.    Even 

for  people  with  as  good  appetites  as  Fred  and  I  have!    Are 

you  ready  to  serve  it  now  ?" 

That  Sunday  evening  Bettina  served: 

Chicken   a   la   King  Toast 

Cakes  with  Bettina  Icing 

Coffee 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  229 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Chicken  a  la  King  (Eight  portions) 

iH  C-cold  boiled  chicken,  cut  in  2/3-inch  cubes 

y2  t-salt 
1/3  C-button    mushrooms,  cut  in  fourths 

4  T-pimento,  cut  in  hallf-inch  lengths 
2  T-green    pepper,    cut  fine 

5  T-butter    or    chicken  fat 

6  T-flour  2  C-milk 
V/2  t-salt  2  egg-yolks 

y2  t-paprika  8  pieces  of  toast 

Boil  the  green  pepper  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  three 
minutes  or  until  quite  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire,  beat  one 
minute,  reheat,  add  the  egg-yolk,  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
chicken  mixture.  Heat  again.  Serve  immediately  by  pouring 
over  slices  of  toast. 

To  prepare  the  chicken  mixture,  thoroughly  mix  the  chicken, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  mushrooms,  the  cooked  green  pep- 
per and  the  pimento. 

Small  Cakes  (Fourteen  cakes) 

\XA  C-sugar  %  t-salt 

1/3  C-butter  2/3  C-milk 

2  C-flour  I  t-vanilla 

4  t-baking   powder       y2  t-lemon  extract 
2  egg-whites 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  slowly  and  continue  cream- 
ing. Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add 
these  and  the  milk,  vanilla  and  lemon  extracts  to  the  butter  and 
sugar.  Mix  well  and  beat  two  minutes.  Beat  the  egg-whites 
till  very  stiff  and  fold  these  very  carefully  into  the  cake  mix- 
ture. When  thoroughly  mixed,  fill  the  cake  pans  (which  have 
been  prepared  with  waxed  paper)  two-thirds  of  an  inch  deep 
with  the  mixture. 

Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  allow  to 
stand  five  minutes,  then  slip  a  knife  around  the  edges  and  re- 


230     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

move  the  cake  carefully  from  the  pan.  Turn  over,  remove  the 
paper  and  allow  the  cake  to  cool.  Ice  on  the  bottom  side. 
When  ready  for  serving,  cut  in  two-inch  squares. 

Bettina  Icing 

I  egg-white       i  t-vanilla 
I  T-cream       y2  t-lemon  extract 
2  C-powdered   ~3gar 

Beat  the  egg-white  ^dd  part  of  the  sugar.  Add  the  cream, 
vanilla  and  lemon  extracts.  Keep  beating.  Add  the  rest  of 
the  sugar  gradually.  (A  little  more  sugar  may  be  needed.) 
Beat  the  icing  till  very  fluffy  and  until  it  will  spread  without 
running  off  the  cake.     Spread  each  layer. 


CHAPTER  LXXIII 
A  SHAMROCK  LUNCHEON 

BETTINA  was  entertaining  "the  crowd"  at  a  shamrock 
luncheon,  and  each  guest,  to  show  her  enthusiasm  for  the 
charms  of  "ould  Ireland,"  was  wearing  somewhere  upon  her^ 
gown,  a  bit  of  green. 

A  green  basket  rilled  with  white  carnations  and  green  fol- 
iage stood  in  the  center  of  the  table.  White  glass  candle- 
sticks with  green  shades  also  carried  out  the  color  scheme, 
while  white  crocheted  favor  baskets,  filled  with  dainty  green 
candies,  were  at  each  plate.    The  table  was  set  for  six. 

The  name  cards  were  white  shamrocks  outlined  with  green 
ink  and  edged  with  gilt,  and  the  name  on  each  was  written  in 
green. 

Bettina  used  green  ferns  for  decoration  in  every  possible 
place  where  they  might  add  to  the  attractiveness  of  the  table, 
under  the  glass  dishes  and  around  the  baskets  containing  rolls, 
cakes  and  croutons. 

"You  might  be  Irish  yourself,  Bettina,"  said  Mary,  "you 
have  such  a  feeling  for  green!  And  isn't  the  table  lovely, 
girls !" 

For  luncheon  Bettina  served : 

Grapefruit   Cocktail 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Shamrock  Croutons 

Bettina   Meat  Timbales  Brown   Sauce 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Mashed   Sweet   Potato   Croquettes 

Shamrock  Rolls  Mint  Jelly 

Pepper  Salad  Sandwiches 

Bombe   Glace       Shamrock   Cakes 

Coffee 

Shamrock  Candies 


231 


232      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Grapefruit  Cocktail  (Six  portions) 

2  grapefruit      6  green  cherries 
1/3  C-sugar  Smilax  or  fern  leaves 

Peel  the  grapefruit,  remove  the  white  part  and  the  tough 
membrane,  leaving  the  fruit.  Cut  with  the  scissors  into  one- 
inch  cubes.  Place  in  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar  and  allow  to  stand 
in  a  cold  place  for  one  hour.  Arrange  the  servings  in  six 
sherbet  glasses.  Place  one  green  cherry  on  the  top  of  each  and 
garnish  the  plate  with  smilax  or  a  fern  leaf.  Stand  the  sher- 
bet glasses  on  a  paper  doily  on  a  small  serving  plate.  Arrange 
a  bit  of  the  green  leaf  under  the  sherbet  glass  (on  top  of  the 
doily)  so  that  the  green  color  will  be  visible  through  the  glass. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  (Six  portions) 

2/3  C-celery,   cut   fine     2l/2  C-milk 

ix/2  C-water  2  t-salt 

4  T-butter  K  t-paprika 

6  T-flour  1  t-chopped  parsley 

2  T-whipped   cream 

Wash  the  celery  thoroughly,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add 
the  small  leaves  and  the  water.  Simmer  for  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Strain  through  a  coarse  strainer,  rubbing  all  of  the  pulp 
through.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika. 
Add  the  milk  and  cook  two  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing. Add  the  celery  stock  and  the  pulp.  Cook  one  minute. 
Fill  bouillon  cups  three-fourths  full,  add  two  pinches  of  pars- 
ley and  one  teaspoon  of  cream  to  each  serving. 

Shamrock  Croutons  (Six  portions) 

6  slices  bread     2  T-butter 
Y4  t-salt 

Cut  the  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  pieces  out  of 
each  with  a  shamrock  cooky  cutter.  Toast  on  each  side  until 
a  delicate  brown.  Butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  serve  warm 
with  soup. 


CHAPTER  LXXIV 
AT  DINNER 

**T\yT  ARY  gave  a  waffle  party  today/'  announced  Bettina  at 

*»*■   the  dinner  table. 

"A  waffle  party  in  the  afternoon?"  said  Bob.  "That  was 
■queer !  Usually  at  afternoon  parties  you  women  serve  tiny 
little  cups  of  tea  and  dainty  olive  sandwiches,  almost  too  small 
to  be  visible ;  don't  you  ?  Waffles  are  more  sensible,  I  think, 
hut  it  seems  a  shame  that  we  men  had  to  miss  such  a  party." 

"Well,  I'm  afraid  I'll  have  to  acknowledge  that  we  had  a 
very  good  time  without  you,"  laughed  Bettina,  wickedly.  "It 
has  been  cold  today,  you  know,  and  Mary's  kitchen  was  so 
warm  and  bright  and  cozy!  We  all  went  out  there  and  took 
turns  baking  the  waffles.  We  consumed  a  large  number  of 
them,  and  had  a  very  jolly  informal  kind  of  time.  We  house- 
keepers compared  notes  and  gave  each  other  advice  and  really 
learned  a  great  many  things." 

"Such  as " 

"Well,  Alice  tells  me  that  when  she  makes  a  devil's  food 
•cake  she  removes  all  of  the  melted  chocolate  from  the  pan  by 
adding  a  little  flour  which  mixes  in  thoroughly  and  saves  any 
waste  of  chocolate.     Surely  that  is  worth  knowing." 

"It  certainly  is,  though  I'll  admit  that  I  don't  quite  under- 
stand your  language." 

"Well,  cheer  up,  Bob !  There  are  times  when  I  confess  that 
I  don't  quite  understand  the  automobile  explanations  you  so 
often  give  me  of  late !" 

Their  dinner  that  evening  consisted  of : 

Pork  Chops  Mashed  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots  Bettina  Salad 

Orange  Dessert 

Coffee 

233 


234     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pork  Chops  (Two  portions) 

2  pork  chops  i  T-egg 

I4t  C-cracker  crumbs     I  T-water 
i  T-bacon  fat 

Wipe  the  chops  with  a  damp  cloth.  Mix  the  crumbs  and 
the  salt.  Beat  the  egg  and  the  water  together.  Dip  the  chops 
in  the  crumbs,  then  in  the  egg  mixture  and  then  in  the  crumbs. 
Place  the  bacon  fat  in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot  add  the 
chops.  Brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  add  half  a  cup  of 
water,  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  until  tender.  (About 
thirty  minutes.)  Cover  with  a  lid  while  cooking.  More  water 
may  be  needed  to  prevent  burning. 

Bettina  Salad  (Two  portions) 

I  tomato  i  t-salt 

1  green  pepper  %  t-onion  salt 

2  T-pimento   cut  in     %  t-celery  salt 
small  pieces  l/i  t-paprika 

2  T-grated  cheese         %  C-salad  dressing 
2  pieces  of  lettuce 

Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  on  a  plate.  Place  a  slice  of  to- 
mato, two  slices  of  green  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  pimento 
and  one  tablespoon  of  cheese  on  each  serving.  Mix  the  salad 
dressing  with  salt,  paprika,  celery  and  onion  salts.  Pour  half 
of  the  mixture  over  a  portion  of  the  salad. 

Orange  Dessert  (Two  portions) 

2  slices  of  sponge  cake        2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 
i  orange  2/3  C-whipped  cream 

2  T-sugar  1  t-vanilla 

Add  the  vanilla  and  the  sugar  to  the  whipped  cream.  Ar- 
range the  slices  of  cake  on  the  plates.  Place  one-fourth  of  the 
orange,  divided  into  sections  and  sprinkled  with  sugar,  on  each 
slice.  Pile  the  whipped  cream  on  the  orange.  Place  one  table- 
spoon of  nut  meats  and  the  remaining  fourth  of  the  orange 
(cut  small)  on  each  portion.  Do  not  arrange  this  dessert  until 
just  ready  to  serve. 


CHAPTER  LXXV 

AN    ANNIVERSARY    DINNER 

f  *'  I  AHIS  is  some  dinner,  Bettina  !"  said  Bob,  over  his  des- 
«*-  sert.  "It's  like  a  celebration,  somehow,  with  the 
pink  candles  on  the  table,  and  the  flowers,  and  the  com- 
pany menu.  Why,  Bettina,  I  do  believe  it  is  an  anniver- 
sary!  Isn't  it?  Let  me  see!  The  second  anniversary  of 
our  engagement !" 

"I've  been  waiting  to  see  if  you  would  remember  that, 
Bob,  and  I  must  say  that  I'm  a  little  ashamed  of  you !  After 
all,  it  took  the  pink  candles  and  the  company  dinner  to 
make  you  think  of  it !  Well,  I  suppose  men  are  all  alike  I" 
And  she  sighed  the  sigh  of  deep  disillusionment. 

Bob  waited  for  a  moment  to  see  the  dimple  reappear  in 
her  cheek,  and  the  twinkle  in  her  eyes,  and  then  he,  too, 
sighed — a  sigh  of  relief. 

"Bless  your  heart,  Bettina,  don't  you  sigh  like  that  again! 
You  almost  had  me  thinking  that  you  were  in  earnest.  Now 
you  took  the  very  nicest  way  to  remind  me  of  that  anniversary. 
Instead  of  feeling  neglected  like  some  women " 

"What  do  you  know  about  'some  women,'  Bob?" 

"Only  what  I've  read  in  books " 

"Well,  the  books  don't  know.  But  I  give  you  fair  warn- 
ing, Bob,  that  on  the  next  anniversary  you  fail  to  remember, 
I'll  feed  you  bread  and  milk,  ana  not  chicken/' 

"This  is  a  fine  dessert,"  said  Boh  meekly  and  tactfully. 

235 


236     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Do  you  like  it?  I  enjoy  making  it,  it  looks  so  light  and 
fluffy.  I  pile  it  very  lightly  into  the  glass  dish  to  make  it 
that  way.     I  prefer  gelatin  in  glass  dishes,  don't  you,  Bob?" 

"You  bet  I  do !  Everything  about  this  anniversary  din- 
ner is  fine  except  for  my  own  stupidity !" 

That  night  Bettina  served : 

Bettina's  Chicken  En  Casserole 
Whole  Wheat  Bread  Butter 

Cranberry  Jelly- 
Head   Lettuce   with   Salad   Dressing 
Bettina's  Sponge 
Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina's  Chicken  En  Casserole   (Two  portions) 

4  pieces   of  chicken  %  C-cooked  potatoes, 
2  T-flour  cut  in  cubes 

i  T-lard  Yz  C-cooked  carrots 

i  C-boiling  water  %  C-cooked  celery 

1  t-salt  i  T-raw  onion 

2  T-butter  I  t-salt 

Roll  the  chicken  in  the  flour.  Place  the  lard  in  the  frying- 
pan,  and  when  very  hot,  add  the  chicken,  browning  thor- 
oughly on  all  sides.  Season  with  the  salt.  Place  in  the 
casserole  and  add  the  boiling  water.  Cover,  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Melt  the  butter,  and  when 
hot,  add  the  potatoes,  carrots,  onion,  celery  and  salt.  Stir 
constantly,  and  when  well-browned,  add  to  the  chicken 
mixture.  Allow  to  cook  for  half  an  hour.  More  water  may 
be  needed.     Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Bettina's  Sponge  (Three  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin         I  C-boiling  water 
i  T-cold  water  y2  C-whipped  cream 

4  T-sugar  6  cocoanut  macaroons,  crushed 

I  T-lemon  juice  8  candied  cherries,  cut  fine 

2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

Add  the  cold  water  to  the  gelatin  and  allow  it  to  stand 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  237 

five  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice.  Mix 
well,  and  add  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved, 
allow  to  cool.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  congeal,  or 
thicken,  add  the  whipped  cream,  crushed  macaroons,  cher- 
ries and  nut  meats.  Beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Pile  lightly  into  a  glass  dish  and  set  away  to  harden  for 
one  hour. 


CHAPTER    LXXVI 
RUTH  COMES  TO  DINNER 

f  *  TTOW  do  you  like  this  kind  of  meat,  Ruth?"  asked  Bob. 

•*■  *  "It  is  a  little  invention  of  Bettina's  own.  I  call  it  a 
symphony  and  no  'mis-steak/  " 

"It  is  an  economy,  not  a  symphony,"  said  Bettina,  "but 
if  it  leads  you  to  make  such  dreadful  puns  as  that,  I'll  wish 
I  had  fed  you  something  else  for  dinner." 

"To  me,"  said  Ruth,  "this  dish  is  a  delicacy  and  a  des- 
pair. How  can  you  think  of  things  like  this?  I  know  I 
never  could  do  it  in  the  wide  world !" 

"I  can't  compose  symphonies  or  poems,"  said  Eettina, 
"so  I  express  myself  in  this  way.  And  most  of  my  music 
is  played  in  a  simple  key.  It  is  difficult  to  think  of  a  variety 
of  inexpensive  meat  dishes,  and  sometimes  I  have  to  invent 
them  in  order  to  keep  within  my  allowance,  and  still  vary 
my  menus.  Creamed  onions  are  economical  and  healthful, 
too,  so  you  see  that  my  whole  dinner  is  inexpensive." 

"And  also  delicious,"  said  Ruth.  "I  don't  see  how  you 
manage  to  keep  cooked  onions  from  having  a  strong  smell, 
and  to  keep  the  house  so  free  from  the  odor." 

"O  that  someone  would  patent 
That  someone  would  patent  and  sell 
An  onion  with  an  onion  taste 
And  with  a  violet1  smell," 

quoted  Bob. 

238 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  239 

"Well,"  said  Bettina,  "I'm  afraid  that  a  house  in  which 
onions  have  recently  been  cooking,  can't  be  entirely  free 
from  the  odor,  but  I  largely  overcome  the  difficulty  by 
peeling  them  under  cold  water,  and  then  cooking  them  in 
an  uncovered  vessel.  Then,  too,  I  wonder  if  you  know  that 
boiling  them  for  five  minutes  and  then  draining  them  and 
covering  them  with  boiling  water  again — even  draining 
them  twice  and  finishing  the  cooking  in  fresh  boiling  water 
— is  a  splendid  thing  for  taking  away  the  strong  taste." 

"No,  I  didn't  know  that.  Bettina,  dear,  your  kind  of 
apple  sauce  is  as  fine  a  dessert  as  I  ever  ate." 

"You're  good  to  say  so,  Ruth.  I  was  afraid  when  I  urged 
you  to  stay  tonight  that  you  might  think  this  meal  very 
plain  and  simple  for  a  guest,  but  I  know  it  is  healthful  and 
economical  and  Bob  seems  to  thrive,  so  I'll  not  be  remorse- 
ful." 

"Just  let  me  ask  you  what  gives  this  apple  sauce  such  a  deli- 
cate flavor.  It  isn't  a  bit  like  common,  ordinary  apple 
sauce." 

"I  don't  know ;  maybe  it's  the  butter.  I  always  put  that 
in,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  This  has  also  a  thin  slice  of 
lemon  cooked  in  it — rind  and  all — and  of  course  there  is  a 
little  cinnamon,  though  some  people  prefer  nutmeg.  Then 
I  try  to  be  careful  in  putting  in  the  sugar,  for  I  know  that 
some  apples  require  more  than  others.  These  were  tart 
apples;  I  like  them  better  for  apple  sauce." 

"The  reason  why  I'm  never  cross 
Is  'cause  I'm  fed  on  apple  sauce," 

remarked  Bob  complacently. 

"But  I  am  sure  you'd  fret  and  cry 
If  fed  instead  on  apple  pie," 

added  Ruth. 


240     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"Not  Bettina's  apple  pie!"  said  Bob  decidedly.     "You 
may  just  be  sure  that  it  would  improve  any  disposition!" 
Dinner  that  night  consisted  of: 

Bcttina  Steak 

New  Potatoes  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce 

Creamed  Onions 

Apple  Sauce 

Bread  Butter 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 
(All  measurements  are  level) 
Bettina  Steak  (Four  portions) 

I  lb.  ground  beef  from  the  round  l/2  t-onion  juice  or  onion  salt 

54  C-bread  crumbs  l/2  t-chopped  green  pepper 

yA  C-milk  i  t-salt 

I  tgg>  well  beaten  Y\  t-paprika 

%  t-grated  nutmeg  x/2  t-chopped  parsley 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  milk  for  three  minutes,  add  the  meat, 
tgg,  nutmeg,  onion  juice,  parsley,  salt,  green  pepper  and 
paprika.  Mix  well.  Pat  into  shape  one  and  one-half  inches 
thick  in  a  well  buttered  tin  pan.  Cook  five  minutes  under 
a  very  hot  broiler.  Turn  down  the  heat  a  little  and  cook 
ten  minutes  more.  Turn  the  steak  into  another  buttered 
pan  the  same  size  and  cook  that  side  ten  minutes.  Pie 
tins  may  be  used  to  cook  the  meat  in. 

Creamed  Onions   (Four  portions) 

6  onions  il/2  C-vegetable  white  sauce 

Peel  six  medium  sized  onions  under  cold  water.  Place 
in  a  stew-pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  five  min- 
utes, drain,  cover  again  with  boiling  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes.  Drain,  recover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes  longer  or  until  tender.     Serve  with  hot  white  sauce. 

Apple  Sauce 

6  tart  apples       i  thin  slice  of  lemon 
%  C-water  Y%  t-cinnamon 

y2  C-sugar  y2  t-butter 

A  few  grains  of  s?lt 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  241 

Wash,  peel,  quarter  and  core  the  apples.  Add  the  water, 
cover  the  kettle  with  a  lid  and  cook  till  apples  are  soft.  Add 
other  ingredients.  Cook  enough  longer  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.     Mash  or  put  through  a  colander,  if  desired. 


APRIL. 

Tell  Trie,  housewife  blithe  and  fair, 
How  does  your  garden  grow? 

Crisp  and  green  the  lettuce  there ,- 
Onions,  row  by  row, 

Radishes  beyond  compare! 

Spring  and  I  with  tender  care 
Watch  them  well,  you  know! 


bttK  eolL.rna. 


CHAPTER   LXXVII 
MILDRED'S  SPRING  VACATION 


**T  WAS    so    afraid    Father 
-■*    wouldn't    let    me    come, 
Aunt  Bettina!"  exclaimed  Mil- 
dred, after  the  first  greetings. 
"And  your  letter  sounded  so 
jolly — about   the   cooking  and 
all — well,   if   Father   had   said 
'no/  I  should  simply  have  died." 
"Died,  Mildred?"  asked  Bob. 
"I    must   say  you   look   fairly 
healthy  to  me,  too  much  so  to 
pine  away  soon  !'? 

"I  don't  intend  to  die  now,  Uncle  Bob !  I'm  going  to  live 
and  have  the  most  fun  helping  Aunt  Bettina!  I  like  that 
so  much  better  than  lessons.  I  brought  two  aprons  in  my 
suit  case ;  Mother  said  I  acted  as  if  I  wouldn't  meet  anybody 
in  a  three  day  visit  but  your  kitchen  stove.  And  to  tell  the 
truth,  Aunt  Bettina,  I  just  hope  I  won't!  I'd  rather  help 
you  cook  than  see  sights  or  meet  people." 

"Oh,  dear !"  exclaimed  Bob  tragically.  "Just  when  I  was 
counting  on  you  to  climb  to  the  dome  of  the  capitol  with 
me,  too !    Why  was  I  ever  born  ?" 

"You'll  have  to  do  your  climbing  alone,  I'm  afraid,"  Mil- 
dred replied  cheerfully.  "Now,  Aunt  Bettina,  may  I  set 
the  table  for  you?  Do  show  me  what  you  are  going  to 
have  for  dinner!  Little  custards?  Oh,  how  cunning! 
Made  in  moulds  and  served  cold  with  maple  syrup?    Aunt 


243 


244    A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina,  I  just  believe  I  could  make  that  dessert  myself! 
Will  you  teach  me  while  I'm  here?" 
The  dinner  consisted  of : 


Round  Steak  En  Casserole  Baked  Potatoes 

Lettuce   Salad  Bettina   Dressing 

Steamed  Custard  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Round  Steak  En   Casserole    (Three  portions) 

i  lb.  round  steak,  cut  one  2  T-green   pepper,    cut   fine 

inch  thick  i  C-diced  carrots 

y2  C-flour  2  C-water 

i  T-onion,  cut  fine  2  t-salt 

Place  the  meat,  which  has  been  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth, 
upon  a  meat  board.  Cut  into  four  pieces.  Pound  the  flour 
into  the  meat  on  both  sides,  using  a  meat  pounder  or  the 
side  of  a  heavy  saucer.  Butter  the  casserole,  add  a  layer  of 
meat,  then  onions  and  green  peppers.  Add  the  carrots. 
Add  the  salt  to  the  water  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Cover 
closely.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for 
two  hours.  More  water  may  be  needed  before  the  meat 
is  done.    Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Lettuce  Salad  (Three  portions) 

6  pieces  of  lettuce     y2  t-salt 

Arrange  the  lettuce,  which  has  been  washed  and  chilled, 
upon  three  plates.  Sprinkle  the  lettuce  with  salt  and  serve 
with  the  following  dressing: 

Bettina  Dressing 

2/3  C-salad    dressing  1  T-pimento  catsup 

1  t-olive  oil  XA  C-celery,  cut  fine 

2  T-chopped  pickle  2  T-nut  meats,  cut  fine 
1  T-chopped  pimento  ^  t-salt 

%  t-paprika 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  246 

Beat  the  salad  dressing,  add  the  oil,  pickle,  pimento, 
catsup,  celery,  nut  meats,  salt  and  paprika.  Beat  one  min- 
ute. Pour  three  tablespoons  of  the  mixture  over  each  por- 
tion of  the  lettuce.     Serve  very  cold. 

Steamed  Custard  (Four  custards) 

lY2  C-milk         %  t-salt 

2  eggs  J4  t-vanilla  extract 

3  T-sugar       J4  t-lemon  extract 

%  t-grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and  lemon 
extract.  Mix  thoroughly.  Butter  four  custard  cups.  Fill 
a  pan  four  inches  deep  with  hot  (not  boiling)  water.  Set 
the  cups  in  the  pan  and  place  in  a  moderately  slow  oven  for 
thirty-five  or  forty  minutes  (or  until  a  knife  inserted  in 
the  custard  comes  out  clean).  Serve  cold  with  maple  syrup 
poured  over  it. 


CHAPTER   LXXVIII 
HELPING  BETTINA 

**TV/TILDRED  helped  me  get  the  dinner  tonight,"  said 

•*■*■■•    Bettina,  as  they  sat  down  at  the  table. 

"Indeed  I  did,  Uncle  Bob!"  exclaimed  the  little  girl  de- 
lightedly. "And  I'm  having  so  much  fun  that  I  don't  ever, 
ever,  ever  want  to  go  home !  Aunt  Bettina  is  going  to  show 
me  how  to  make  cookies  tomorrow !" 

4  "Is  she?"  said  Bob.  "Well,  don't  eat  'em  all  up  before 
I  get  here.  Save  me  six  fat  ones,  with  raisins  in.  Don't 
forget  the  raisins." 

"I  set  the  table,  Uncle  Bob,  and  I  made  the  rice  cro- 
quettes into  that  cunning  shape,  and  when  they  were  fried, 
I  put  in  the  jelly!     Don't  they  look  nice?" 

"The  most  artistic  rice  croquettes,  I  ever  ate!"  declared 
Bob. 

"And  wait  till  you  see  the  dessert!  I  fixed  that;  Aunt 
Bettina  showed  me  how.  But  I  won't  tell  you  what  it  is — 
yet.     I  know  you'll  like  it,  though." 

"Well,  you're  a  great  little  helper,  Mildred,  aren't  you !" 

"That's  just  what  Aunt  Bettina  says.  And  I've  learned 
so  many  things !  I  didn't  know  before  that  it  was  easier 
to  cut  up  marshmallows  with  the  scissors  than  any  other 
way.  Oh,  Aunt  Bettina!  I  almost  told  him  about  our  des- 
sert !" 

"Marshmallows?     Marshmallows?"  said  Bob.     "A  clue, 

246 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  247 

I  do  believe!  I  have  it:  'Marshmallows  served  with  scis- 
sors'/" 

"Oh,  Uncle  Bob,  you're  too  funny  I"  cried  Mildred,  shout- 
ing with  laughter. 

"Appreciated  at  last !"  said  Bob. 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had  : 

Lamb  Chops  Rice  Croquettes 

Creamed  Peas 

Bread  Butter 

Sponge   Cake  Whipped   Cream 

Coffee 


BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

'All  measurements  are  level) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops   (Three  portions) 

3  lamb  chops        1  t-salt 
i  T-butter  "       l/k  t-paprika 
Ys  t-parsley 

Wipe  and  trim  the  chops.  Place  on  a  hot  tin  pan  four 
inches  from  a  direct  hot  flame  (under  a  broiler).  Cook  two 
minutes,  turn  and  thoroughly  cook  the  other  side  for  two 
minutes.  Lower  the  flame  a  little,  add  the  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cook  for  eight  minutes  more.  (A  little  longer  if  the 
chops  are  very  thick.)  Remove  to  a  warm  platter,  dot  with 
butter,  add  the  parsley  and  serve  immediately. 

Rice  Croquettes  with  Jelly   (Three   croquettes) 

I  C-steamed  rice  %  t-salt 
i  egg-yolk  i  t-chopped  parsley 

i  T-butter  3  T-flour 

%  t-paprika  2  T-grape  jelly 

Mix  the  steamed  rice,  egg-yolk,  butter,  paprika,  salt  and 
parsley.  Shape  into  flat  disks  one  inch  thick  and  three 
inches  in  diameter.  Roll  in  flour.  Make  an  indentation  in 
the  center  of  each  v*ith  a  spoon,  to  hold  the  jelly.  Fry  in 
hot  deep  fat  until  brown.  Drain,  the  wrong  side  up.  Heat 
in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  hot.  Place  a  cube  of  jelly  in  the 
center  of  each. 


248     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Sponge  Cake  with  Whipped  Cream   (Three  portions) 

3  slices  of  stale  cake   (three        3  T-cherry  juice 

by  three  by  one  inch)  4  T-whipping  cream 

8  marshmallows  cut  in  cubes       Yz  t-vanilla 

3  T-canned  cherries  il/2  T-sugar 

Beat  the  cream  until  stiff,  add  the  vanilla,  marshmallows 
and  sugar.  Arrange  the  cake  in  glass  sherbet  dishes.  Place 
a  tablespoon  of  cherries  and  a  tablespoon  of  juice  on  each 
slice.  Place  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  the  whipped 
cream  mixture  on  each  portion.  Allow  to  stand  in  a  cold 
place  for  five  minutes. 


CHAPTER    LXXIX 
HELPING  WITH   A   COMPANY   DINNER 

f f /^OOKING  a  company  dinner  is  such  fun!"  sighed 

^-^  Mildred.  "I  like  the  dinner  part,  but  I  always  wish 
that  the  company  would  stay  away  at  the  last  minute." 

"Oh,  you'll  like  Mr.  Jackson,  Mildred.  He's  one  of 
Uncle  Bob's  best  friends,  and  so  nice  and  jolly!" 

"The  jolly  men  always  like  to  tease,  and  the  ones  who 
aren't  jolly  are  always  cross.  I  don't  intend  to  get  mar- 
ried myself.  I'm  going  to  live  in  a  nice  little  bungalow  like 
this  one  and  do  my  own  cooking." 

"Will  you  live  all  alone?"  asked  Bettina. 

"I'll  adopt  some  children — seven  or  eight,  I  think, — all 
girls.     I  don't  want  any  boys  around." 

"Your  bungalow  will  have  to  be  larger  than  this  to  accom- 
modate them  all  if  you  adopt  seven  or  eight." 

"I  don't  want  a  large  one ;  that  would  spoil  the  fun.  I'll 
let  the  children  take  turns  sleeping  on  the  floor.  Children 
always  love  to  sleep  on  the  floor,  and  mothers  never  like 
to  have  them  do  it!  I  wonder  why?  Now,  will  you  let 
me  brown  the  flour  for  the  gravy?" 

"Yes,  dear.  Put  half  a  cup  of  white  flour  in  that  frying- 
pan  over  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  is  a 
nice  brown  color,  about  like  powdered  cinnamon." 

"This  way?" 

"Yes,  Mildred ;  a  little  darker  than  that,  but  keep  stirring 
it  so  that  it  won't  burn.     There,  that's  exactly  right !" 

That  evening  Bettina  served  : 

249 


250     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Leg  of  Lamb  with  Browned  Potatoes 

Gravy 

Lettuce  and  Egg  Salad 

Strawberry    Shortcake  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Leg  of  Lamb  and  Browned  Potatoes  (Four  portions) 

3  lb.  leg  of  lamb       J4  t-paprika 

6  potatoes  2  T-bacon  fat 

I  T-salt  1/3  C-boiling  water 

Allow  the  lamb  to  stand  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  wipe  dry.  Place  the  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  Add 
the  meat  and  cook  until  thoroughly  browned  on  all  sides. 
Place  in  the  fireless  cooker  (or  a  slow  oven)  and  surround 
the  meat  with  the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  water.  (If  in  the  cooker,  place  the  heated 
disks  under  and  over  the  meat.)     Cook  two  hours. 

Gravy   (Four  portions) 

4  T-browned    flour       *4  t-white  pepper 
1  T-butter  il/2  C-meat  stock  and 

I  t-salt  water 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  pan  in  which  it  was  cooked 
^also  remove  the  potatoes)  and  add  sufficient  water  to  the 
stock  in  the  pan  to  make  one  and  a  half  cups  all  together. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  browned  flour  and  a  tablespoon  of 
the  stock.  Mix  well,  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the 
remaining  stock ;  cook,  stirring  constantly  for  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  heated  gravy  dish.     Serve  at  once. 

Egg  and  Lettuce  Salad   (Four  portions) 

8  pieces  of  lettuce      2  t-salt 

4  hard-cooked  eggs     ]/2  t-paprika 

4  radishes  Y*  t-celery  salt 

4  young  onions  8  T-salad  dressing 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  plate.  Slice  an 
egg,  a  radish  and  an  onion  and  arrange  these  upon  the 
lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle  each  portion  with  a  fourth  of  the 
seasoning.  Place  two  tablespoons  of  salad  dressing  on  each 
portion.     Have  all  the  ingredients  cold  before  combining. 


CHAPTER    LXXX 
MILDRED'S   DAY 

ff T  HELPED  to  make  the  cunning  little  biscuits,  Uncle 

«■■     Bob,"  explained  Mildred  at  dinner. 

"You  did?"  said  Bob,  feigning  astonishment.  "You  rolled 
them  out  with  a  rolling  pin,  I  suppose,  and " 

"Oh,  no,  Uncle  Bob!  You  ousrht  never  to  use  a  rolling 
pin,  Aunt  Bettina  says '"  t^id  Mildred  in  a  horrified  tone,  as 
if  she  haH  been  cooking  for  the  First  Families  for  a  score 
of  years.  "Good  cooks  always  pat  down  the  dough — they 
never  roll  it  out." 

"Well,  what  do  you  do  first?  Stir  up  the  dough  with  a 
spoon  ?" 

"No,  indeed;  you  use  a  knife.  Then  you  pat  the  dough 
down,  and  cut  out  the  dear  little  biscuits  with  a  biscuit 
cutter." 

"And  put  them  side  by  side  in  a  nicely  buttered  pan?  I 
know  how !" 

"But  you  don't  butter  the  pan,"  said  Mildred  trium- 
phantly. "Or  flour  it,  either.  Aunt  Bettina  says  that  lots 
of  people  think  the  pan  has  to  be  buttered  or  floured,  but 
they're  wrong.  It's  lots  better  to  put  the  biscuits  into  a  nice 
clean  pan." 

"But  don't  they  stick  to  it,  and  burn?" 

"No,  indeed  !  They  don't  burn  a  bit !  Look  at  these !" 
said  Mildred,  delighted  to  find  the  opportunity  to  impart 
some  of  her  newly  acquired  knowledge. 

"Well,  what  else  did  you  help  Aunt  Bettina  to  make?" 

251 


252     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

"These  nice  stuffed  onions.  It  was  fun  to  make  them, 
even  though  I  don't  like  onions.  I  ground  up  the  dry- 
bread  that  Aunt  Bettina  keeps  in  the  jar  by  the  stove." 

"Well,  you  can  tell  Mother  Polly  that  Aunt  Bettina  will 
make  a  good  cook  of  you  yet !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Rolled  Stuffed  Steak  Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Stuffed  Onions 

Sour   Cream   Biscuits  Currant  Jelly 

Sliced  Bananas  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Stuffed  Onions  (Four  portions) 


4  onions 

i  t-parsley 

y2  C-bread  crumbs 

i  T-pimento 

i  T-tomato  pulp 

i  egg-yolk 

I  T-butter 

Y$  C-cooked  celery 

Vz 

t-salt 

Wash  and  peel  the  onions.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  in  boil- 
ing water.  Rinse  with  cold  water  to  make  them  firm. 
Push  out  the  centers.  Place  the  onions  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  pan  and  fill  each  onion  with  filling.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Filling 

Mix  the  crumbs,  tomato  pulp,  butter,  parsley,  pimento, 
salt,  tgg  yolks  and  celery.  Cook  for  one  minute.  Fill  each 
onion  case  carefully  with  the  mixture.  Then  pour  the 
following  sauce  about  the  onions  before  placing  them  in  the 
oven: 

White  Sauce  (Four  portions) 

2  T-butter        YA  t-salt 
2  T-flour        i/6  t-paprika 
i  C-milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix 
well,  add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  one  minute. 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  253 

Sour  Cream  Biscuits  (Four  portions) 

2  C-flour  3  T-fat 
y2  t-salt                           54  t-soda 

3  t-baking   powder    2/3  C-sour  milk 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Cut  in  the  fat 
with  a  knife.  Add  the  soda  to  the  milk,  and  when  the 
effervescing  ceases,  add  slowly  to  the  dry  ingredients.  (All 
the  milk  may  not  be  needed.)  When  a  soft  dough  is 
formed,  toss  onto  a  floured  board.  Pat  into  shape,  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  place  side  by  side  on  a  tin  pan  or 
baking  sheet.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 


CHAPTER  LXXXI 
POLLY  COMES  FOR  MILDRED 

* f  QO  you've  been  teaching  Mildred  to  cook?"  asked  Polly 

^  as  they  sat  down  to  dinner. 

"Oh,  Mother,  I've  learned  so  much !"  cried  Mildred  with 
enthusiasm.  "And  when  I'm  married,  I'm  going  to  have  a 
dear  little  kitchen  just  like  Aunt  Betty's !  Aunt  Betty  does 
know  the  very  best  way  to  do  everything!  Why,  Mother, 
I  think  she's  a  better  cook  even  than  Selma,  and  not  half 
so  cross  when  I  bother !" 

"Bother!"  said  Bettina.  "Why,  Mildred,  you've  been  a 
real  help  to  me!" 

"I  hope  so,"  laughed  Polly,  "but  I'm  not  so  sure.  Chil- 
dren never  worry  me — it's  fortunate,  isn't  it? — but  I  don't 
see  how  on  earth  anyone  can  cook  with  a  child  in  the 
kitchen !  I  wanted  Selma  to  teach  Mildred,  but  I  hadn't 
the  heart  to  insist  when  she  objected  to  the  plan." 

"H — m,  Selma !"  said  Mildred  with  scorn.  "Why,  Mother, 
oelma  doesnvt  even  know  enough  to  line  her  cake  pans  with 
waxed  paper!  She  butters  'em!  And  I  don't  believe  we 
have  a  spatula  in  the  whole  house !" 

"A — what?"  said  Polly  in  a  puzzled  tone.  "I  don't  be- 
lieve I " 

"Don't  you  know  what  a  spatula  is,  Mother?"  asked 
Mildred  didactically.  "Why,  it's  one  of  those  flattened  out 
spoon-things  to  use  in  the  kitchen.  We  ought  to  have  one. 
And — Mother,  you  ought  to  see  how  much  mayonnaise 
Aunt  Bettina  makes  at  a  time !     It'll  keep,  you  know." 

254 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  255 

"Goodness!"  said  Polly  tragically.  "What  a  dreadful 
thing,  it  will  be  to  live  with  a  child  who  knows  more  than 
I  do!" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had: 

Veal  Chops 

Baked  Potatoes  Escalloped  Onions 

Bread  Butter 

Mocha  Cake  Mocha  Icing 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Escalloped   Onions    (Four  portions) 

1  C-onions         I  t-salt 

i  qt.    water    %  t-pepper 

2  T-butter         i  C-milk 

2  T-flour  %  C-buttered  crumbs 

Wash  and  peel  the  onions.  Cook  in  one  quart  of  water. 
Allow  to  boil  five  minutes.  Change  the  water  and  continue 
boiling  ten  minutes.  Change  the  water  again,  and  when 
thoroughly  cooked  (about  fifteen  minutes  more),  remove 
from  the  fire  and  drain. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  milk  and  cook  one  minute.  Add  the 
onions,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish.  Place  the  buttered  crumbs  on  the  top  of  the  onions 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mocha  Cake  (Twelve  portions) 

1/3  C-butter        1  C-strong  coffee 

1  C-sugar       y2  t-vanilla 

2  eggs  2  C-flour 

3  t-baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  the  mixture,  add 
the  egg-yolks,  mix  well  and  add  the  coffee,  vanilla,  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Beat  two  minutes.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg- 
whites.  Pour  the  mixture  into  two  layer-cake  pans  pre- 
pared with  waxed  paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.    When  cool,  spread  with  the  mocha  icing. 


256     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Mocha   Icing    (Twelve   portions) 

4  T-strong  boiling  coffee     I  t-vanilla 
i]/2  C-powdered   sugar 

Mix  the  vanilla  with  the  coffee.  Add  the  powdered  sugar 
slowly  until  the  proper  consistency  to  spread.  Spread  over 
one  layer  and  place  the  upper  layer  on  the  lower.  Place  the 
icing  on  the  top  layer  and  on  the  sides.  More  sugar  may 
be  needed 


CHAPTER   LXXXII 
MILDRED'S   PLANS 

**T  SUPPOSE  that  when  we  get  home  again,  Mildred 

*■■  will  be  insisting  that  we  reorganize  our  household 
along  the  lines  of  yours,  Bettina,"  laughed  Polly.  "I  can 
just  hear  Selma's  outbursts  at  the  idea  of  any  changes  in 
her  department." 

"But  you  can  always  smile  Selma  out  of  her  'spells/ 
Mother,"  coaxed  Mildred.  "And  just  think,  Selma  doesn't 
even  know  what  a  fireless  cooker  is !  We'll  have  to  explain 
it  to  her." 

"What  can  you  make  in  a  fireless  cooker,  Mildred?" 
asked  Polly  of  her  little  daughter,  who  was  fairly  bursting 
with  her  newly  acquired  information. 

"Oh,  Mother,  this  roast!  Isn't  it  good?  Aunt  Betty  kept 
it  in  the  cooker  almost  four  hours,  and  think  how  much 
gas  that  saved !" 

"Well,  I'll  admit  that  such  an  item  would  appeal  to  your 
father,  Mildred,"  Polly  replied,  "so  I  think  I'll  leave  it  to 
you  to  get  around  him  and  Selma.  I'm  sure,"  she  con- 
tinued, turning  to  Bob,  "that  such  an  undertaking  can  rea- 
sonably be  expected  to  occupy  Mildred  for  some  time.  But 
I  do  like  the  roast." 

"The  roast?"  said  Bob.  "It  is  good,  Polly,  but  you 
needn't  think  that  this  is  a  company  meal,  especially.  Why, 
Bettina  gives  me  company  dinners  every  day !" 

For  dinner  that  night  they  had : 

Pot  Roast  Gravy 

Boiled  Rice 

Apple  and  Nut  Salad 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee 


257 


258     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 


BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Pot  Roast  (Four  portions) 

2.y2  lbs.     of     beef     (a  2  t-salt 

rump  roast  ^  t-pepper 

2  T-bacon  drippings  %.   C-diced  carrots 

3  T-flour  J4   C-diced  turnips 

1  bay  leaf  2  T-chopped  onions 

4  cloves  yi   C-celery 

3  C-boiling    water 

Place  the  bacon  drippings  in  a  frying-pan.  Roll  the  beef 
in  the  flour,  and  when  the  fat  is  hot,  add  the  beef  and 
brown  thoroughly  on  all  sides.  .  Place  the  meat  in  a  kettle, 
and  add  the  vegetables.  Pour  the  water  in  the  frying-pan 
to  remove  any  fat.  Pour  all  over  the  meat.  Add  the  bay 
leaf,  cloves  and  salt.  Cover  closely  and  allow  to  cook  very 
slowly  for  three  and  a  half  hours.  Turn  the  meat  after  the 
second  hour.     This  is  a  good  fireless  cooker  recipe. 

Gravy 

1  C-stock    1  T-flour 
1  T-water 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  kettle.  Strain  the  stock  into 
a  bowl.  To  the  flour,  add  the  water.  Mix  well,  and  grad- 
ually add  the  stock.  Mix  and  cook  one  minute.  Pour  the 
gravy  over  the  meat  and  reserve  the  remaining  stock  and 
vegetables  for  soup. 

Soup 

Strain  the  vegetables  through  the  strainer,  pressing  thor- 
oughly to  remove  all  the  pulp.  Add  the  stock  and  one-half 
a  cup  of  water.  Reheat  and  serve  for  dinner  with  croutons 
or  salted  wafers. 

Rice 

Y2  C-rice  1  t-salt 

2  C-boiling  water     y$  t-paprika 
1  T-butter 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  259 

When  the  water  is  boiling,  add  the  salt.  Add  the  rice 
and  allow  it  to  boil  twenty  minutes.  More  water  may  be 
needed.  Stir  occasionally  with  a  fork.  Pour  into  a  strainer, 
and  rinse  thoroughly  with  cold  water.  Toss  into  a  buttered 
vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  dot  with  butter. 
Set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 


CHAPTER  LXXXIII 
A  LUNCHEON  FOR  POLLY 

*f^rOW  that  this  delicious  little  luncheon  is  over,  Bet- 

•*■  ^  tina,"  said  Alice,  "I  want  to  ask  you  something. 
How  did  you  make  the  croquettes  that  cunning  shape?" 

"With  a  conical  ice  cicam  mould,  Alice,"  Bettina  an- 
swered. "It  is  very  simple.  And  I'll  tell  you  another  thing. 
I  made  those  croquettes  yesterday,  not  today." 

"You  don't  mean  that  you  fried  them  yesterday?" 

"Yes,  I  did,  Alice.     In  deep  fat." 

"But  they  were  warm,  not  cold." 

"Yes,  for  I  reheated  them  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore I  served  them.  They  really  are  as  good  as  new  when 
treated  that  way.  I  had  always  supposed  that  croquettes 
had  to  be  served  immediately  after  they  were  fried,  and  you 
know  frying  in  deep  fat  is  really  a  nuisance  when  it  has  to 
be  done  at  the  last  minute.  For  instance,  today  I  had  the 
biscuits  to  make,  and  the  soup  and  sweet  potatoes  to  pre- 
pare. And  I  believe  in  being  leisurely  when  giving  a 
luncheon,  so  I  certainly  would  not  serve  croquettes  if  they 
had  to  be  made  that  day.  I  tried  reheating  them  once  when 
Bob  and  I  were  here  alone  and  discovered  that  they  were 
delicious.  So  I've  always,  ever  since,  fried  my  croquettes 
the  day  before." 

"Hereafter  I'll  serve  croquettes  at  luncheon  myself,"  said 
Alice.     "You  have  taught  me  something." 

For  luncheon  that  day  Bettina  served: 


260 


With  Bettina's  Best  Recipes  261 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup  Toasted  Sticks 

Pork  Croquettes  Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Green  Beans 

Biscuit  Cherry   Butter 

Head  Lettuce       French  Dressing 

Date  Pudding  Cream 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Cream  of  Pea  Soup  (Four  portions) 

1  C-peas  2  T-butter 
i  C-water        2  C-milk 

%  t-sugar  1  t-salt 

2  T-flour         J4  t-paprika 

Cook  the  peas,  water  and  sugar  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain,  and  rub  all  the  pulp  through  the  strainer.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
gradually  add  the  milk.  Boil  one  minute  and  add  the  pulp 
and  liquid  from  the  peas.  Cook  one  minute.  Serve  in  hot 
soup  plates  or  bouillon  cups. 

Toasted  Sticks  (Four  portions) 

3  slices  of  bread     1  T-butter 
XA  t-salt 

Cut  the  slices  of  bread  one-half  an  inch  thick.  Butter, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cut  into  strips,  the  length  of  the 
slice  and  half  an  inch  wide.  Place  on  a  tin  pan,  and  cook 
directly  under  a  fire  or  in  an  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  warm. 

Ground  Pork  Croquettes   (Four  croquettes) 

1  C-chopped,  cooked  pork   y2  T-butter 

%  t-paprika  1  T-flour 

%  t-celery  salt  1/3  C-milk 

Y%  t-onion  salt  1/3  C-crumbs 

%  t-salt  2  T-egg 

1  T-pimento,   cut  fine  1  T-water 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  paprika,  celery  salt,  onion 
salt,  salt  and  pimento.  Gradually  add  the  milk  and  cook 
thoroughly  for  one  minute.     Add  the  meat  and  allow  the 


262     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

mixture  to  cool.  When  cool,  shape  into  the  desired  shape, 
preferably  conical.  Roll  in  the  crumbs,  dip  in  the  egg  and 
water  mixed,  then  dip  in  the  crumbs  and  allow  to  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes  or  more.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Date  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

2  egg-whites  I  t-baking  powder 

%  C-sugar  x/z  C-dates,  cut  fine 

4  T-flour  y*  C-nut  meats,  cut  fine 

l/&  t-salt  lA  t-vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  whites  thoroughly,  add  the  sugar,  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  add  the  dates,  nuts  and 
vanilla.  Pile  lightly  in  a  well-buttered  baking-dish.  Place 
the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Allow  the  pudding  to  remain  in  the  oven 
a  little  while  after  the  heat  is  turned  off.  If  cooled  slowly, 
it  will  not  fall.  The  pudding  may  be  baked  in  individual 
moulds  if  preferred,  and  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER   LXXXIV 
FURS  TO   PUT  AWAY 

«  A    PENNY  for  your  thoughts !" 

**"  Bettina  started  in  surprise.  "Why,  Ruth,  I  didn't 
see  you  coming  up  the  walk  I" 

"I  knew  you  didn't.  But  what  on  earth  are  you  doing  out 
here  on  your  front  steps?     Enjoying  the  weather?" 

"Indeed  I  am !  Isn't  it  a  wonderful  spring  day?  But  my 
thoughts  weren't  very  poetic,  I  must  admit.  I  was  just 
wondering  if  it  was  too  early  to  put  away  my  furs  for  the 
summer.  I'm'  always  tempted  to  do  that  when  the  first 
signs  of  spring  appear,  and  then  I'm  generally  sorry  a  few 
days  later." 

"I'll  have  to  put  mine  away  soon,  too.  Do  tell  me,  Bet- 
tina, just  how  you  go  about  it." 

"Well,  I  always  hang  mine  in  the  sun  for  a  while,  then  I 
beat  them  well,  comb  them  out  with  a  steel  comb,  and 
wrap  them  up." 

"With  moth-balls?" 

"That  is  a  good  way,  but  not  at  all  necessary.  I  always 
wrap  mine  in  a  newspaper — a  good  tight  package.  Moths 
don't  like  printer's  ink,  you  know,  and  furs  so  wrapped  are 
perfectly  safe." 

"Then,  Bettina,  you  don't  need  to  add  that  you  label  the 
package,  for  I  know  that  you  do,  you  thoroughly  thorough 
housekeeper !" 

Bettina  laughed.  "Well,  Ruth,  I  do  label  it.  Labelled 
packages  are  so  much  better  to  have,  for  very  often  you 
need  to  get  something  out  in  a  hurry." 

For  dinner  that  night  Bettina  served : 

263 


264     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Broiled    Steak  Lyonnaise    Potatoes 

Bean  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Date    Rocks  Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes   (Two  portions) 

2  T-onion 
2  T-butter 
%  t-paprika 
Y2  t-salt 
I  C-cold    boiled    potatoes,  cut  in  3^-inch  cubes 
i  t-chopped  parsley 

Place  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  when 
hot  add  the  onion.  Let  the  onion  cook  until  it  is  brown. 
Add  the  salt  and  parsley,  the  rest  of  the  butter,  the  potatoes 
and  the  paprika.  Stir  well.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
well  browned. 

Bean  Salad  (Two  portions) 

1  C-kidney  beans  I  t-salt 

l/2  C-celery,  cut  fine  3  T-chopped  pickle 

2  T-nut  meats  1/3  C-salad  dressing 

2  pieces  of  lettuce 

Mix  the  beans,  celery,  nut  meats,  green  pepper,  pickles 
and  salt.  Add  the  salad  dressing.  Serve  very  cold  on 
lettuce  leaves. 


Date  Rocks 

I 

C-sugar 

1 

t-cinnamon 

3/2 

C-lard  and  butter 

mixed 

V2 

t-powdered  cloves 

V2 

C-flour 

V* 

t-vanilla 

V2 

t-baking 

powder 

V2 

C-dates,  cut 

fine 

2 

eggs 

V* 

C-nut  meats, 

cut  fine 

Vs  t-salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  lard,  add  the  sugar,  and  mix  well. 
Add  the  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  thoroughly 
the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Add 
the  dates  and  nuts.  Stir  these  dry  ingredients  into  the 
first  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  and  drop 
from  the  end  of  the  spoon  upon  a  well  larded  and  floured 
baking  pan.     Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER    LXXXV 
PLANNING  A   CHILDREN'S   PARTY 

^rVF  course,  I'll  help  you,  Ruth,"  said  Bettina.     "I'd 

^-^  love  to.  A  children's  party !  What  fun  it  will  be ! 
How  many  children  will  be  there?" 

"Twelve  or  fifteen,  I  think.  Now  let  me  tell  you  Ralph's 
own  idea  for  entertainment.  I  suppose  I'm  a  doting  aunt, 
but  it  sounds  very  possible  to  me." 

"Did  Ralph  suggest  the  kind  of  a  party  he  wished?  Well, 
isn't  he  a  clever  boy!  And  he's  only  eleven  years  old, 
too." 

"He  suggested  that  the  invitations  invite  the  children  to 
a  circus.  You  see,  we  could  write  a  little  rhyme  to  that 
effect  on  animal  paper,  or  with  an  animal  picture  pasted  in 
the  corner.  When  the  children  arrive,  we'll  have  the  parade. 
We'll  have  ready  the  horns,  drums,  and  so  forth,  for  the 
band,  and  some  of  the  children  will  represent  the  various 
wild  animals.  The  parade  will  lead  to  the  refreshment  table 
(after  some  circus  games,  perhaps),  which  will  be  set  out- 
doors if  it  is  warm  enough.  The  table  must  represent  a 
circus  ground  (I've  seen  those  paper  circuses  downtown, 
haven't  you?),  and  the  refreshments  must  carry  out  the 
scheme.     So,  Bettina,  do  help  us  to  plan  the  details!" 

Bettina's  dinner  that  night  consisted  of: 

Sliced   Ham   and   Potatoes   en   Casserole 

Baked  Creamed  Cabbage 
Bread  Butter 

Plum  Pudding 
Cocoanut   Pudding 

265 


266     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Sliced  Ham  and  Potatoes  en  Casserole  (Four  portions) 

I  lb.   slice  of  ham  two-  12  cloves 

thirds  of  an  inch  thick  %  t-paprika 

4  new  potatoes  1  t-chopped  parsley 

1  C-water  2  T-flour 

Have  a  frying-pan  very  hot.  Add  the  ham  and  brown 
thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Add  the  water  and  let  boil  for 
one  minute.  Remove  the  ham.  Stick  the  cloves  into  it, 
and  place  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole.  Add  the  parsley 
and  paprika  to  the  water  in  the  pan,  and  pour  the  liquid 
over  the  meat.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour.  Roll  the  potatoes  (which  have  been  washed  and 
peeled)  in  the  flour,  and  add  to  the  casserole.  Baste  with 
the  liquid.  Cover  and  cook  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Serve 
in  the  casserole. 

Creamed   Cabbage   Baked    (Four   portions) 

3  C-cabbage,  cut  or  chopped  fine     1  t-salt 

1  qt.  water  1  C-milk 

3  T-flour  %  C-cracker  or  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  T-butter  1  T-butter 

Wash  the  cabbage  and  chop  into  half  inch  pieces.  Cook 
in  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  rinse  with  cold 
water.  Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  the  butter,  adding 
the  flour  and  salt,  and  then  adding  the  milk.  Cook  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  cabbage,  and  pour 
into  a  well-buttered  open  baking  dish.  Melt  the  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  the  crumbs  and  mix  well.  Spread  the 
buttered  crumbs  over  the  top  of  the  cabbage.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  in  the  dish. 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (Four  portions) 

1  C-milk  }/2  t-lemon    extract 

%  t-salt  y2  t-vanilla 

3  T-corn  starch  3  T-cocoanut 

I  egg  yolk  2  T-sugar 

Mix  the  corn  starch  and  salt  in  the   upper  part  of  the 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  267 

double  boiler.  Add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Add  the  sugar.  Place  the  upper  in  the  lower  part  of  the 
double  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
lumping.  When  very  thick,  add  the  egg-yolk,  the  vanilla 
and  lemon  extracts  and  *Uo  cocoanut.  Beat  one  minute. 
Cook  again  for  three  minutes.  Place  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Beat  the  egg-white  and  when  very  stiff,  add  the  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Pile  lightly  on  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes  to  brown 
the  meringue. 


MAY. 


Scrub  and  polish, — sweep  and  clean,- 
FUng  your  windows  wide! 

See,  the  trees  are  clad  in  green! 
Coax  the  spring  inside! 

Homey  be  shining  fair  to-day 

For  the  guest  whose  name  is  May! 


CHAPTER    LXXXVI 


IN  HOUSECLEANING  TIME 


tif^  OODNESS       gracious, 

VJ  Ruth!"  said  Bettina. 
"Surely  it  can't  be  half-past 
five  already !" 

"Yes,  it  is,  Bettina.  Exactly 
that!"  said  Ruth,  glancing  at 
her  tiny  wrist  watch.  "But 
Bob  won't  be  home  till  six,  will 
he?" 

"No,  but  I  want  to  have  din- 
ner ready  when  he  arrives. 
You  see,  as  I  told  you  before,  I  simply  shouldn't  have  gone 
to  Mary's  this  afternoon.  My  curtains  are  down  and  my 
rugs  are  up,  and  my  house  isn't  an  attractive  place  for  a 
man  to  come  home  to,  to  say  the  least.  And  then  to  come 
straight  from  a  party  and  give  Bob  a  pick-up  lunch  instead 

of  a  full  meal,  will  be " 

"The  last  straw?    What  had  you  planned  for  lunch?" 
"Well,  I  have  some  soup  all  made,  ready  to  reheat.    Then 
I  think  I'll  have  banana  salad,  tea,  and  hot  baking-powder 
biscuits." 

"De-licious !"  said  Ruth,  with  a  Teddy-fied  grin.     "I  be- 
lieve I'll  invite  myself  to  stay!" 

"Good!     You  can  make  the  salad  while  I'm  mixing  the 
biscuits.    I  also  have  some  chocolate  cookies,  and  I'll  open 

a  jar  of  canned  peaches " 

"And  I'll  be  so  bright  and  scintillating  that  old  Bobbie 
won't  even  miss  the  curtains  and  the  rugs !" 
That  night  Bettina  served: 


269 


270     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Bettina   Soup  Oyster   Crackers 

Banana  Salad 

Hot  Biscuits 

Canned  Peaches  Chocolate  Cookies 

Tea 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Bettina  Soup  (Three  portions) 

3  C-meat  stock  (left  over)       i  T-sliced  onion 
y2  C-cooked  rice  y2  t-salt 

y2  C-tomato  pulp  ^  t-paprika 

3  celery  leaves 

Add  the  rice,  tomato  pulp,  onion,  salt,  paprika  and  celery 
leaves  to  the  meat  stock.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes  over  a 
slow  fire.  Strain  and  serve  in  hot  soup  dishes  or  bouillon 
cups. 

Banana  Salad  (Three  portions) 

2  bananas  I  T-lemon  juice 

y2  C-shelled      peanuts,  y2  t-salt 

broken  in  halves  Y\  t-paprika 

x/2  C-celery,    cut    small  Vz  C-salad     dressing 

3  lettuce  leaves 

Cut  the  bananas  in  one-fourth  inch  cubes.  Add  the  lemon 
juice,  mixing  thoroughly.  Add  the  peanuts,  celery,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  salad  dressing,  mixing  lightly  with  a 
silver  fork.  Pile  on  the  lettuce  leaves  which  have  been 
washed  and  arranged  on  a  serving  dish.    Serve  immediately. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  (Eight  biscuits) 

\y2  C-flour  yA  t-salt 

3  t-baking   powder     il/2  T-lard 
y2  C-milk 

Mix  and  sift  well  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut 
in  the  lard  with  a  knife  until  the  consistency  of  cornmeal. 
Add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  with  a  knife  until  the  dough 
is  soft  enough  to  be  handled  without  sticking  to  the  fingers. 
Place  on  a  floured  board,  pat  into  shape,  with  the  hands,  to 
a  thickness  of  two-thirds  of  an  inch.  Cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter.  Place  the  biscuits  side  by  side  in  a  tin  pan.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  on  a  folded 
napkin. 


CHAPTER   LXXXVII 
WITH  HOUSECLEANING  OVER 

f f  T>  ROILED  steak  and  Frei  ch  fried  potatoes !    Whew!" 

-D  said  Bob,  strolling  into  Bettina's  shining  kitchen. 
"Why  so  festive?" 

"Because  I've  just  finished  hcuse-cleaning,  Bob,  and  I 
want  to  celebrate.    Doesn't  everything  look  splendid?" 

"Well,  it  looked  good  to  me  before,  but  now  that  I  think 
of  it,  I  believe  there  is  an  extra  shine  on  things.  What 
makes  that  nickel  there  look  so  bright  and  silvery?" 

"I  cleaned  it  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  powdered  borax. 
That  always  makes  nickel  bright  and  clean." 

"I  might  have  done  that  for  you,  Betty.  Why  didn't  you 
suggest  it  to  me?" 

"Oh,  this  house  is  so  small  and  dear  that  I  enjoyed  every 
minute  of  my  house-cleaning.  And  I  didn't  want  to  bother 
you  with  it  at  all." 

"Well,  I'll  help  now  with  dinner.    What  can  I  do?" 

"Will  you  cut  the  bread,  dear?  There's  the  steel  bread 
knife;  doesn't  it  look  bright  and  shiny,  too?  I  cleaned  all 
my  steel  knives  by  dipping  them  into  the  earth  in  a  flower 
pot  I  keep  filled  for  that  purpose.  Well,  I  think  dinner  is 
ready  now,  Bob." 

For  dinner  they  had : 

Broiled  Steak  French  Fried  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Onions 

Bread  Currant  Jelly 

Orange  Tapioca  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 


271 


272     A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S   RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
Stuffed  Onions  (Two  portions) 

2  large  Spanish  onions     y2  t-salt 

3  T-soft  bread  crumbs      2  t-melted  butter 
i  t-egg  y2  t-celery  salt 

Yz  t-chopped  parsley  XA  C-milk 

Cook  the  whole  onions  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  but 
not  broken.  When  the  fork  pierces  them  easily,  drain  off 
the  water  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  This  makes  them  firm 
for  stuffing. 

Remove  the  centers  carefully.  Add  the  removed  portion, 
chopped  fine,  to  the  crumbs,  eggt  parsley,  salt,  butter  and 
celery  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  holes  with  the  mix- 
ture. Place  the  onions  in  a  small  pan.  Sprinkle  the  salt 
over  the  onion  and  pour  over  it  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Orange  Tapioca  (Two  portions) 

4  T-orange  juice     2/3  C-boiling  water 

2  t-lemon   juice  2  T-powdered  tapioca 

5  T-sugar  %  t-salt 

1  orange 

Stir  the  tapioca  into  the  orange  and  lemon  juice.  Add 
the  sugar  and  salt.  Let  it  stand  for  three  minutes  while 
boiling  the  water.  Add  the  water.  Place  directly  over  the 
fire.  Stir  constantly  and  cook  till  thick  (about  three  min- 
utes). Peei  the  orange  and  break  apart  in  sections.  Line 
a  glass  sc.  ving  dish  with  it  and  pour  the  tapioca  over  the  sec- 
tions,    berve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Whipped  Cream 

1/3  C-thick  cream     y2  t-lemon  extract 
2  T-sugar  y2  t-vanilla  extract 

Place  the  cream  in  a  round-bottomed,  chilled  bowl.  Beat 
until  thick  and  fluffy.  Add  the  sugar,  lemon  and  vanilla. 
Mix  well.  Pile  lightly  on  the  orange  tapioca  and  serve 
very  cold. 


CHAPTER   LXXXVIII 

SPRING    MARKETING 

**  T  'VE  been  to  the  market,  Bettina,"  said  Charlotte,  "and 
•■■     I  thought  I'd  stop  here  just  a  moment  to  rest." 

"Come  in,"  said  Bettina,  "and  set  that  heavy  basket  down. 
Why  didn't  you  leave  it  for  Frank  to  bring?" 

"Because  I  needed  the  things  for  dinner." 

"What  did  you  get?" 

"Oh,  the  same  old  fresh  vegetables,"  said  Charlotte  wear- 
ily. "A  month  ago  they  seemed  so  wonderful — strawber- 
ries, asparagus,  new  potatoes  and  all — but  there  are  no  new 
ways  to  cook  them !  One  day  I  cream  the  asparagus  and 
the  next  day  I  serve  it  on  toast." 

"Do  you  ever  make  asparagus  salad?"  asked  Bettina. 
"We  are  very  fond  of  it.  Cold  cooked  asparagus  is  good 
with  any  kind  of  salad  dressing,  but  we  like  best  a  very 
simple  kind  that  I  often  make — oil  and  lemon  juice  and 
cheese." 

"Cheese?"  echoed  Charlotte  in  surprise. 

"Yes,  cottage  cheese  and  Roquefort  cheese  are  equally 
good.  And,  Charlotte,  if  you  want  some  delicious  straw- 
berry desserts " 

"Oh,  I  do !  We're  so  tired  of  shortcake  and  plain  straw- 
berries !" 

"I  know  several  good  strawberry  dishes.  Come,  let  me 
show  you  one  that  I  made  today  1" 

Bettina's  dinner  consisted  of: 


273 


274      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

Veal  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Bread  Butter 

Asparagus  Salad  Salad  Dressing 

Strawberry  Tapioca 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Asparagus  Salad  (Three  portions) 

18  stalks  of  asparagus    3  C-water 

1/2  t-salt  2  pieces  of  lettuce 

Wash  the  asparagus  and  cut  it  in  six-inch  pieces.  Cook 
for  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  (longer  if  necessary). 
Rinse  with  cold  water,  handling  carefully.  Arrange  six 
stalks  on  each  piece  of  lettuce.    Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Asparagus  Salad  Dressing  (Three  portions) 

4  T-olive  oil  %  t-salt 

2  T-lemon  juice     J4  t-paprika 
I  T-cottage   cheese 

Beat  the  oil,  and  add  the  lemon  juice  slowly.  Add  the 
salt  and  paprika.  Beat  one  minute.  Add  the  cheese.  Serve 
very  cold,  poured  over  the  asparagus  salad. 

Strawberry  Tapioca 

3  T-granulated  tapioca    %  t-salt 

4  T-sugar  y2  t-vanilla 

l%  C-hot  water  1  C-strawberries 

T/i  C-sugar 

Wash  and  hull  the  strawberries,  and  cut  in  halves  with  a 
spoon.  Add  the  sugar,  mix  well,  and  set  in  a  cold  TDiace. 
Mix  the  tapioca,  the  sugar  and  the  salt.  Add  the  ociling 
water  slowly.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
double  boiler.  Add  the  vanilla.  When  cold,  add  the  straw- 
berries.   Serve  very  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTER    LXXXIX 
PLANS    FOR   THE   WEDDING 

ff/^H,  Bob!"  cried  Bettina,  "don't  you  hope  it  won't 

yJ    rain?" 

"Rain?  When?  Tonight?"  asked  Bob,  absent-mindedly, 
for  he  was  busily  eating  the  first  cherry  cobbler  of  the 
season,  and  enjoying  it,  too. 

"No,  stupid!  I'm  thinking  about  the  wedding — Ruth's 
wedding." 

"And  Fred's  wedding,  too,"  added  Bob.  "You  talk  as  if 
Ruth  were  the  only  one  who  is  vitally  interested." 

"Fred's  wedding,  then.  For,  you  see,  the  ceremony  is  to 
be  in  that  darling  summer  house  if  it  doesn't  rain.  If  it 
does  it  will  have  to  be  in  the  solarium.  The  bridesmaids 
and  matrons  (if  it  is  an  outdoor  wedding)  are  to  carry  the 
prettiest  green  silk  parasols  that  you  ever  saw.  They  will 
be  Ruth's  gifts  to  us.  Over  our  arms  we'll  carry  plain  soft 
straw  hats  filled  with  pink  peonies,  and  lots  of  trailing 
greenery.  Won't  that  be  lovely?  For  you  know  we  are 
all  to  wear  short  white  dresses  and  white  shoes." 

"And  what  am  I  to  do?" 

"You're  to  be  an  usher  and  help  carry  the  green  ropes 
that  form  the  aisle." 

"Ropes?" 

"Yes,  plain  ropes  covered  with  greenery.  Will  you  have 
some  more  cherry  cobbler,  Bob  ?" 

That  night  for  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Pork  Tenderloin  Creamed   New   Potatoes 

Cauliflower  with  Butter  Sauce 

Vegetable   Salad  French   Dressing 

Cherry  Cobbler  Cream 

Coffee 


275 


276      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Vegetable  Salad   (Four  portions) 

2  tomatoes  l/2  t-celery  salt 

12  slices    of    cucumber       i  t-salt 
4  T-cottage  cheese  x/\  t-paprika 

8  pieces  of  lettuce 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  salad  plate.  Cut 
the  tomatoes  in  half  and  arrange  on  the  lettuce.  Place 
three  slices  of  cucumber  on  each  piece  of  tomato.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  cheese  to  each  portion.  Sprinkle  with  celery 
salt,  salt  and  paprika.     Serve  at  once  with  French  dressing. 

Bettina's   French   Dressing  (Four  portions) 

2  T-lemon  juice       I  t-salt 
5  T-olive  oil  %  t-paprika 

I  t-chopped  parsley- 
Mix  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  paprika  and  parsley.    Add  the 
oil  slowly,  beating  vigorously  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  or  a 
fork.     Beat  until  the  mixture  becomes  a  little  thick.    Pour 
over  the  salad. 

Cherry  Cobbler   (Four  portions) 

2  C-cherries,  stemmed      i  C-flour 

and  pitted  I  t-baking  powder 

2/3  C-sugar  Ya,  t-salt 

2  t-flour  1  T-sugar 

1  T-water  2  T-butter 

Yz  t-salt  6  T-milk 

Mix  the  cherries,  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Allow  to  stand 
five  minutes.  Add  the  water.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
deep  glass  or  china  baking  dish.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Cut  in  the  butter  with  a 
knife.  Add  the  milk,  mixing  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed. 
Shape  it  with  the  hands  to  fit  over  the  cherries.  Make 
three  slits  in  the  dough  to  permit  the  steam  to  escape. 
Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  baking  dish.  Plain  cream  or  whipped  cream 
should  be  served  with  the  cobbler. 


CHAPTER   XC 
ENTERTAINING  THE  WEDDING  GUESTS 

**TF  you  girls  only  would,  my  dear,"  Ruth's  mother  had 

*  responded  to  Bettina's  suggestion  that  she  and  Alice 
entertain  Ruth's  house  guests  the  entire  day  before  the  wed- 
ding, "you  have  no  idea  what  a  load  would  be  taken  off  my 
mind!" 

"And  Alice  and  I  would  so  enjoy  helping  you,"  Bettina  had 
replied.  "And  remember,  we  mean  the  whole  day,  breakfast 
and  all!" 

Luckily,  the  day  before  the  wedding  dawned  warm  and  clear. 
At  eight  o'clock  Harry  and  Bob  drove  them  all  in  automobiles 
to  a  lovely  country  spot  in  which  the  girls  served  an  outdoor 
breakfast.  The  morning  was  spent  in  motoring  and  luncheon 
was  eaten  at  a  charming  downtown  tea-room.  Then  they  were 
whisked  off  to  Bettina's  little  home  for  an  informal  afternoon, 
and  Harry  and  Bob,  feeling  that  they  had  indeed  been  model 
husbands,  departed  for  their  respective  offices. 

"The  girl  from  Kentucky  has  volunteered  to  sing,"  whis- 
pered Alice  to  Ruth.  "She's  a  dear.  Do  you  suppose  we  can 
keep  Aunt  Jenny  from  talking  for  half  an  hour?" 

That  afternoon  the  following  refreshments  were  served  on 
trays: 

Fruit  Salad  Bettina  Sandwiches 

Orange  Sherbet 

Bettina  Cake,  White  Mountain  Cream  Icing 

Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 


277 


278      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Fruit  Salad  (Twelve  portions) 

3  C-diced   pineapple  ]/2  C-marshmallows,  cut  fine 

I  C-nut   meats,   cut   in   small       ]/2  C-red  cherries,  cut  fine 
pieces  1/3  C-figs,  cut  fine 

y2  C-oranges,     cut     in     small         1  C-salad  dressing 
pieces  x/2  C-whipped  cream 

12  pieces  lettuce 

Mix  the  pineapple,  nut  meats,  oranges,  marshmallows,  cher- 
ries and  figs.  Mix  the  whipped  cream  and  the  salad  dressing. 
Pour  this  over  the  fruit.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  which  have 
been  washed  and  placed  on  serving  plates.     Serve  immediately. 

Bettina  Sandwiches  (Twelve  portions) 

z/t  C-creamed  cheese  y2  C-pimento  olives,  chopped  fine 

3  T-pickles,  chopped  fine      2  T-salad  dressing 
l/A  t-salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  pickles,  olives  and  salt.  Add  the  salad  dress- 
ing. Spread  this  mixture  between  two  thin  pieces  of  buttered 
bread.     Press  firmly  together  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

Bettin?  Cake  (Twelve  squares) 

y  C-butter  1  t-baking  powder 

y2  C-sugar  y  C-strained  orange  juice 

4  egg-yolks  J/2  t-orange  extract 

7/z  C-flour  l/2  t-lemon  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the 
egg-yolks  which  have  been  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt,  and  add  these,  with  the  orange  juice 
and  the  orange  and  lemon  extracts  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat 
vigorously  for  two  minutes.  Fill  a  twelve-inch  square  pan 
which  has  been  prepared  with  waxed  paper,  with  the  mixture. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cool,  cover 
with  the  icing  and  cut  into  twelve  pieces. 


CHAPTER  XCI 
THE  BRIDESMAIDS'  DINNER 

RUTH'S  wedding  colors  were  to  be  pink  and  green,  and 
pink  and  green  were,  therefore,  the  colors  which  decor- 
ated the  charming  dinner  table  laid  for  the  wedding  party  and 
close  relatives  the  night  before  the  wedding.  A  bud  vase  hold- 
ing a  half-opened  pink  rose  bud  stood  before  every  two  places. 
A  large,  low  dish  in  the  center  of  the  table  held  pink  roses, 
while  at  either  end  was  another  low  arrangement  of  the  same 
flowers. 

Tiny  paper  slipper  nut  cups  at  each  place  held  the  pecans, 
and  at  the  places  laid  for  the  best  man  and  the  ushers,  silver 
pencils,  Fred's  gifts  to  the  groomsmen,  were  found. 

"They  are  cunning,  of  course,"  chattered  Bernadette,  Ruth's 
cousin  and  maid-of -honor,  "but  you  men  just  wait  till  you  see 
the  green  parasols  that  we  bridesmaids  are  to  carry !  Ruth  is 
giving  them  to  us,  you  know !" 

The  dinner  menu  was  as  follows : 

Watermelon  Balls 

Celery  Bouillon  Bread   Sticks 

Veal  Birds 

Creamed  New  Potatoes  Buttered  New  Beets 

Rolls  Butter  Balls 

Mint  Frappe 

Blackstone  Salad  French  Dressing 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Brick  Ice  Cream  White  Cake 

Coffee 

Salted  Pecans 


271 


280      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Blackstone  Salad  (Eighteen  portions) 

36  pieces  of  head  lettuce  H  t-paprika 

9  grapefruit  y2  t-salt 

9  T-Neufchatel  cheese  2  T-cream 
9  T-cottage  cheese  1  T-salad  dressing 

Arrange  two  pieces  of  lettuce  on  each  salad  plate.  Care- 
fully peel  the  grapefruit  and  remove  all  the  tough  fibres  and 
the  white  skin.  Cut  the  grapefruit  into  one-inch  pieces.  Ar- 
range the  pieces  in  a  circle  upon  the  lettuce  leaves.  In  the 
center  of  the  circle,  place  the  cheese  mixture.  Pour  the  salad 
dressing  over  the  lettuce,  cheese  and  grapefruit. 

Cheese  Mixture 

Mix  the  Neufchatel  and  cottage  cheese,  the  salt,  paprika, 
cream  and  salad  dressing.  Stir  until  very  creamy.  Spread 
on  a  piece  of  waxed  paper  to  the  thickness  of  one  inch.  Place 
in  the  refrigerator,  on  the  ice  if  possible.  When  cold  and  hard, 
cut  in  pieces  three-fourths  of  an  inch  square.  Place  a  cube  in 
the  center  of  the  grapefruit  circle  on  each  side  plate. 

French  Dressing 

8  T-lemon    juice     1/2  t-paprika 
2  t-salt  1  C-olive  oil 

Mix  and  beat  thoroughly  the  lemon  juice,  salt  and  paprika. 
Add  the  oil  very  slowly.  Beat  for  three  minutes.  Add  one 
tablespoon  to  each  portion  of  the  salad.    Serve  at  once. 


CHAPTER  XCII 
A  MORNING  WEDDING  IN  JUNE 

AFTER  the  solemn  and  beautiful  ceremony  had  taken 
place  in  the  rose-embowered  summer  house,  there  was 
the  usual  hush  for  a  moment,  and  then  Ruth  and  Fred  were 
engulfed  in  a  sudden  rush  of  chattering  friends,  eager  to  offer 
congratulations.  Bettina  and  Bob  were  swept  off  with  the  oth- 
ers to  the  house,  where  the  wedding  breakfast  was  waiting  to 
be  served. 

"The  morning  is  after  all  the  happiest  time  for  a  wedding," 
whispered  Ellen  to  Bettina,  as  they  found  their  places  at  the 
bride's  table.  "Everything  seems  so  fresh  and  new  and  green 
and  hopeful !    Isn't  the  table  lovely,  Bettina  ?" 

And  indeed  it  was.  Rose-decorated  again,  with  the  grace- 
ful flowers  in  baskets,  and  the  white  bride's  cake  in  the  center 
of  the  table,  Bettina  felt  that  it  made  the  proper  setting  for  the 
flushed  and  smiling  little  bride. 

"And  the  wedding  cake  is  to  be  passed  in  darling  little  bas- 
kets," continued  Ellen.  "Little  baskets  with  handles — and  the 
cake  in  tiny  packages  tied  with  white  ribbon !  Pink  and  green 
candy  all  around  them,  too !" 

The  wedding  breakfast  consisted  of: 

Watermelon  Balls  in  Halves  of  Cantaloupe 

Chicken  Croquettes  Creamed   Potatoes 

Mushroom  Sauce 

New  Peas  Butter  Sauce 

Parker  House  Rolls  Loganberry  Jam 

Fruit  Salad  Wafers,  Bettina 

Brick  Ice  Cream  White  Cake 

Coffee 

Nuts  Candy 


281 


282      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Mushroom  Sauce  (Thirty  portions) 

i  C-chicken  fat       2  t-salt 
%  C-water  Yt  t-paprika 

I J4  C-flour  7  C-milk 

Mix  the  fat  and  flour  carefully,  add  the  water,  salt  and 
paprika.  Cook  one  minute,  stirring  constantly,  add  one-half  of 
the  milk  and  cook  until  the  mixture  gets  very  thick.  Beat  one 
minute,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cook  again,  still  stirring 
continuously.  When  the  sauce  is  very  thick  and  creamy,  add 
the  mushrooms.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  for  one  minute.  This 
allows  the  mushrooms  to  get  hot.  Serve  one  tablespoonful  of 
the  mixture  around  each  croquette.  The  sauce  may  be  re- 
heated by  adding  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  and  placing  over  a 
hot  fire. 

Fruit  Salad   (Thirty  portions) 

30  slices  of  pineapple  120  pecan  meats 

120  white  cherries  30  T-salad  dressing 

30  red  maraschino  cherries      30  pieces  of  head  lettuce 
2  t-salt 

Arrange  the  pieces  of  lettuce  on  the  salad  plates.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  arrange  on  each  portion  a  slice  of  pineapple,  four 
white  cherries,  four  pecan  nuts  and  one  maraschino  cherry. 
Place  one  tablespoon  of  salad  dressing  on  each  slice  of  pine- 
apple, then  arrange  the  fruits  and  nuts  in  any  desired  design. 
Serve  immediately. 

Wafers  Bettina   (Thirty  portions) 

30  double  wafers  3  T-chopped  nut  meats 

Y  lb.   cream   cheese    (white)       3  T-butter 
Ya  t-salt 

Mix  the  cheese,  nuts,  butter  and  salt  thoroughly.  Spread 
evenly  over  the  double  wafers.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
a  delicate  brown  on  the  top. 


CHAPTER  XCIII 
THE  FIRST  YEAR  ENDS 

i(   A   ND  a  whole  year  has  gone  since  then/'  said  Bob,  as  his 

A  eyes  met  Bettina's  across  the  little  table  set  for  two. 

"That's  the  queer  part  of  it,"  Bettina  replied.  "That  year 
seems  unbelievably  short  in  some  ways  and  unbelievably  long 
in  others,  and  stranger  yet,  I  don't  feel  that  it  is  really  gone. 
I  feel  as  if  we  had  it,  captured,  held  forever,  with  all  of  its 
fun  and  all  of  its  little  sad  times.  We  own  it,  even  more  than 
we  own  a  collection  of  snapshots  in  a  camera  book — because 
that  year  is  a  part  of  us  now." 

"And  the  little  hard  places  only  make  the  bright  spots  all 
the  brighter  by  contrast.  Do  you  know,  Bettina,  that  I've 
found  you  wiser  than  I  ever  imagined  a  young  wife  could 
be?" 

"Bob," — and  Bettina  laughed  and  blushed  at  the  same  time. 

"Don't  interrupt.  This  is  our  anniversary  and  I'm  making 
a  speech.  You  are  wise  because  from  the  first  you've  realized 
that  we  get  out  of  life  just  what  we  put  into  it.  You've  faced 
things.  You've  realized  that  marriage  isn't  a  hit-or-miss  propo- 
sition.    It's  a  business " 

"A  glorified  business,  Bobby.  Dealing  in  materials  that  can't 
all  be  felt  and  seen  and  tasted,  but  that  are,  nevertheless,  just 
as  real  as  others.  More  truly  real,  I  sometimes  think.  I 
know  that  the  more  love  we  give  the  more  we  receive,  but  we 
can't  forget  that  we  were  given  intelligence,  too.  So  we  mustn't 
turn  the  rose-colored  lights  of  romance  too  beautifully  low 


283 


284      A  Thousand  Ways  To  Please  a  Husband 

to  let  us  see  the  wheels  go  round.  And  after  all,  romance  is 
really  in  everything  that  we  do  lovingly,  and  intelligently.  I 
find  it  in  planning  and  cooking  the  best  and  most  economical 
meals  that  I  can,  and  in  getting  the  mending  done  on  time,  and 
in  keeping  the  house  clean  and  beautiful.  And — in  having  you 
appreciate  things." 

"If  you  knew  how  I  do  appreciate  them !"  said  Bob.  "Let's 
make  our  second  year  even  happier  than  the  first.  If  that  is 
possible !" 

For  that  anniversary  dinner  Bettina  served: 

Broiled  Steak  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Hot  Biscuits  Butter 

Currant  Jelly 

Tomato  Salad 

Charlotte  Russe 

Coffee 

BETTINA'S    RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 

Currant  Jelly    (Five   glasses) 

2  qts.  of  currants     I  C-water 
Sugar 

Pick  over  the  currants,  leaving  the  berries  on  the  stems- 
Wash  and  drain.  Place  in  an  enamel  preserving  kettle  and 
add  one  cup  of  water.  Cook  slowly  until  the  currants  are 
white.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Boil  the  juice  five  minutes 
in  a  shallow  pan.  It  is  better  to  boil  small  quantities  at  a  time, 
as  this  makes  the  jelly  much  clearer.  When  the  juice  has  all 
been  boiled,  measure,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  heated 
sugar.  Boil  three  minutes,  or  until  it  jells  when  tried  on  a 
cold  saucer.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses.  Allow  to  stand  in 
the  sun  twenty- four  hours.  Cover  with  boiling  paraffin  and 
put  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  This  recipe  makes  about  ftvz 
glasses  or  two  and  a  half  pints. 

Tomato  Salad  (Two  portions) 

4  slices  tomato,  J/2  inch  thick  %  t-celery  salt 

3  T-chopped  green  pepper  2  T-olive  oil 

y2  t-salt  2  T-lemon  juice 

%  t-paprika  2  pieces  lettuce 


With  Bettinas  Best  Recipes  285 

Mix  the  salt,  paprika,  celery  salt,  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice. 
Beat  one  minute.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  green  pepper.  Place 
in  the  ice  box  for  half  an  hour.  Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves 
on  salad  plates.  Place  two  slices  of  tomato  on  each  portion. 
Pour  the  oil  mixture  over  the  tomatoes. 

Charlotte  Russe  (Two  portions) 

2  t-granulated  gelatin      I  C-whipped  cream 
2  T-cold  water  y2  t-vanilla 

%  C-hot  milk  4  thin  pieces  sponge  cake 

%  C-sugar 

Place  the  sponge  cakes  around  the  edges  of  a  moistened 
mould.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  the 
hot  milk.  Stir  until  it  dissolves.  Add  the  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Allow  the  gelatin  mixture  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
fold  in  the  cream.  Beat  until  the  mixture  holds  its  shape. 
Pour  into  the  mould.  Allow  to  remain  two  hours  in  a  cold 
place. 


The  Easy 


Breakfast 


becomes    a    mighty    good    one 
when  it  includes 


Post  Toasties 


and  Cream 

This  ready-to-eat  food  (direct  from 
package)  provides,  without  a  moment'* 
or  worry,  a  nourishing  dish  of  sweet,  toasted  bits 
of  Indian  corn. 

Food  experts  of  National  renown  vouch  for  its 
purity,  and  the  food  itself  proves  its  palatability. 

Toasties  come  in  tightly  sealed  packages  which 
keep  them  fresh  and  crisp. 

Sold  by  grocers  everywhere. 

Ask  for 

Post  Toasties 


fT}     "Hi       ':li  h 

t  If  »  H         ~x~im  -S9      I  ' 

■    1*  .  m     ■ 


"  Not  as  good  as  Campbeir 

NO.     There  is  none  like  that." 
This  is  what  people  who   know 
it  in  their  homes  say  every  day  about 


the  best   and    have 


1%amML% 


TOMATO 

OUP 


Not  only  is  it  composed  of  the  choicest  materials  known, 
but  our  method  of  retaining  their  fresh  natural  flavor  is  ex- 
clusive with  us.  And  our  blending-formula  was  originated 
by  the  foremost  soup-expert  in  the  world. 

Try  this  perfect  soup  prepared  with  milk  or  cream  as  a 
bisque  and  you  will  realize  that  the  most 
expensive  hotel,    the    most    palatial    club 
or  private  residence   can   supply  nothing 
better. 

21  kinds         10c  a  can 


1  tat  these  mjiii*  5o  line. 
Ami     then     uuhnld      I 

strength  and  fume 
While       they're      iipholt! 


Asparagus 
Beef 

1'iouillon 

Celery 

Chicken 

Chicken  Gumbo  (Okra) 

Clam  Bouillon 


Clam  Chowcki 
Consomme 
Julienne 
Mock  Turtle 
Mulligatawny 
Mutton  Broth 
Ox  Tail 


Pea 

Pepper  Pot 

Printanicr 

Tomato 

TomatoOkra 

Vegetable 

Vermicelli-Tomato 


Look  for  the  red-and- white  label 


.   .-.  -  ■ . .- 


Four  chassis  are  presented  with 
superstructures  of  new  and  approved  types. 

Six-cylinder  —  Three  Models 

38  -  Six  $4000 
48  -  Six  $5000 
6d  -  Six        $6000 

Four-cylinder — One   Model 
40  -  Four     $4300 

The  perfect  motor  car  will  do  what  is 
required  of  it  easily,  smoothly,  quietly,  and 
for  a  period  of  years  with  only  gradual  wear. 
It  is  rich  and  beautiful,  and  its  comfort  is 
absolute. 

Such  a  car  can  be  produced  only  where 
there  is  not  the  slightest  tendency  to  allow 
cost  to  dominate  quality. 

The   Peerless   Motor  Car  Company 
Cleveland    Ohio 

Makers  also  of  Peerless  Commercial  Cars 


$9 

^8 


' 


""^V? 


•--     ■  •'-{  j-.,..r-~ r.^ 


T^-rrrrrf 


