^O5 


Cc 


# 


*./X-SK'.^% 


•  0o    v--^'.y   «*u^v>  'v-^'V 


o*  ,.•■ 


0*  **VL %    * 


V  ,* 


,^  ^     *• 


#    % 


V^y .  •  v^-y . . .  v^v°  •  v 


\       ^0i         o< 


:*  ^0« 


v%   ♦  V  a*.    ^ 


•       ^*t>     «v^      *  «K\ «»  A.  *       vVv     t*       * 


,/v- 


; .  jp^  '-. 


'/      L#^> 


A^        t  •  •  *         ^  *\  .  .  ,,         ^ 


^  4Va'\  .#  .^flK'.   ^  ^r'-.; 


w 


r*  \a 


V^s^V 


V -•.;-.•■ 


%.  ^^.,  ^o 


V'  •  •"' 4°**  %.'*^^v*  ^'-O'^y  %^'^^v 

•.  Vn*c°  .-^fe-. %.^  4aiik.. V.*c°  .<:^-, °%  y ,t 


% 


'-<** 


^^ 


1     ^0* 


>*     o^'V       "    .j> 


*     aV 


,/ 


°o.  *^T«-io'J 


\ 


i>         .  *  •  .        <r 


ov    •  • 


i  V*         «  »  »   ,  *T-v 


'  /%  « 


/\c^%% 


0         ~t    * 


*i*r  tf 


a*k  - 


'^nV 


4       4?       "*U     V 


w 


♦  **b 


v*  cr       ° « 

■or  O 

'    ...  °+„ 


%* 


A&        .  -,  I  '  »  „.         <$>. 


o,  *-^7<«*    A 


*     ^ 


1?^. 


^°^ 


".:      ^o>^ 


j?**. 


5>     *2^L'*    ^> 


^  ^^:  ^^fe  '^^  ^^K^  %^ 


•-> 


r^  -; 


K7*'VV 


/     -*v    ^.  ^ 


&      h 


^    ^ 


^0* 


b  ^ 

o 


:    *bv*    ;| 


^rr#  ^%-.^     V;^V     %A^^>V     ^v 


v0^ 


'A0T 


%.''&*:&  .   ^'•^•.#l 


V  «  '    •  o,  o 


^V 


Copyrighted  1922 

The  Thursday  Afternoon  Cooking  Club 

Wichita,  Kansas 

Printed  by  The  Western  of  Wichita 


4^r     cAi-,   U^ciuG 


THE  THURSDAY 
AFTERNOON 

COOKING  CLUB'S 

COOK  BOOK 


INTRODUCTION  t^  J 

The  Thursday  Afternoon  Cooking  Club  of  Wichita,  Kansas, 
was  organized  in  the  Fall  of  1891,  by  Mrs.  E.  R.  Spangler,  who 
was  the  first  President.  It  has  held  a  unique  place  among 
women's  clubs  in  the  West,  and  has  received  many  high  compli- 
ments from  our  Eastern  guests,  as  being  the  only  club  composed 
exclusively  of  practical  housekeepers,  organized  solely  for  the 
exchange  of  ideas  in  the  art  of  cooking  and  domestic  science. 
The  membership  is  limited  to  twenty  five,  and  must  stand  for 
the  higher  and  better  things  in  life. 

The  motto  of  the  club,  "Health,  Strength,  Happiness,"  indi- 
cates the  high  value  they  place  on  food  quality  as  a  prime  factor 
in  the  making  of  the  modern  home.  Extravagant  receipts  are 
not  sought,  but  every  receipt  must  be  practical  and  meet  the  re- 
quirements of  every-day  experience. 

Great  credit  for  the  success  of  the  Club,  in  organizing  and 
planning  all  work,  should  be  given  to  Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell,  who 
gave  the  best  of  her  time,  strength,  and  advice  as  President  for 
eleven  years.  The  love  and  harmony  that  has  always  been  with 
the  Club,  we  owe  to  her  firm,  yet  gentle,  advice;  so  much  so,  that 
we  feel  she  was  the  Mother  of  the  Club.  We  are  now  in  our 
thirty-first  year,  and  the  only  one  of  the  Charter  members  left 
to  enjoy  the  club  is  Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

For  many  years,  the  one  great  desire  of  the  Club  has  been 
to  have  a  cook  book,  containing  our  very  choicest  receipts,  not 
for  financial  profit,  but  to  be  a  guide  and  help  to  the  generations 
that  follow  the  earnest  women  who  have  striven  for  so  many 
years  to  bring  wholesome  living  into  the  homes. 

We  could  not  publish  the  book  without  acknowledging  the 
deep  obligation  we  owe  to  our  dear  departed  member,  Mrs. 
Chester  I.  Long,  whose  kindness,  faithful  work,  and  generous 
co-operation  has  made  the  book  possible.  This  feeling  of  ap- 
preciation will  find  a  glad  echo  in  the  hearts  of  all  the  members, 
and  of  all  others  who  receive  the  book. 

PAST  PRESIDENTS 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Spangler,  Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis, 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  Todd  Mrs.  C.  E.  Potts, 

Mrs.  W.  P.  Cleveland,  Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes, 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell,  Mrs.  O.  A.  Rorabaugh, 

Mrs.  G.  S.  Purdue,  Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley, 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross,  Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell, 
Present  President:  Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


NOV  28*22 

DC1A602764 


ABBREVIATIONS 


t — teaspoon — leveled  with  sharp  blade  of  knife. 

T — Tablespoon — leveled. 

C — cup. 

pt. — pint. 

qt. — quart. 

oz. — ounce. 

lb. — pound. 

B.  P. — Baking  Powder. 

B.  Sugar — Brown  Sugar. 

Egg  yolks. 

Egg  whites. 

min. — minutes. 

hr. — hour. 

Egg  of  butter — butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Pinch  of  salt— y8t. 

When  sugar  is  mentioned  we  always  mean  granulated  sugar. 

Water  means  cold  water. 


BREAD 

Bread  is  of  two  kinds— fermented  and  unfermented. 

Fermented  bread  is  made  light  by  rising  with  yeast. 

Unfermented  bread  is  made  light  by  chemicals,  or  by  beating 
in  the  air,  or  by  kneading.  The  material  must  be  cold  and  mixed 
quickly. 

Bread  is  the  most  important  article  of  food,  and  history  tells 
of  its  use  thousands  of  years  before  the  Christian  era.  Many  pro- 
cesses have  been  employed  in  making  and  baking;  and  as  a  re- 
sult, from  the  first  flat  cake  has  come  the  perfect  loaf.  The  study 
of  bread  making  is  of  no  slight  importance,  and  deserves  more  at- 
tention than  it  receives. 

QUICK  METHOD  BREAD  RECEIPT 

2  cakes  yeast  1  pt  sweet  milk 

1  pt.  water  1  t  salt 

For  a  family  say,  of  four  persons,  dissolve  two  cakes  of 
Fleishman's  compressed  yeast  in  a  little  luke-warm  water,  into 
an  earthen  bowl  or  milk  crock,  pour  1  pt.  of  sweet  milk  and  add 
1  pint  of  freshly  boiled  water  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in- 
to this  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter,  and  if  the  mix- 
ture is  now  cool  enough  to  admit  of  holding  the  forefinger  in  it, 
add  the  dissolved  yeast  cakes,  beat  well  and  continue  to  stir  in 
more  sifted  flour  until  the  mixture  is  pretty  stiff.  Then  turn  it 
out  on  a  floured  moulding-board  and  knead  the  mass  until  it  is 
smooth,  adding  necessary  flour  very  gradually.  Be  careful  not 
to  knead  in  too  much  flour.  When  the  kneaded  dough  ceases  to 
stick  to  the  hands  and  the  bread  board,  you  have  used  sufficient 
flour.  It  is  not  necessary  to  knead  this  bread  longer  than  just 
enough  to  make  the  dough  smoothe  and  free  from  lumps  of 
roughness. 

All  the  dough  should  have  been  scraped  clean  out  of  the 
bread-bowl  and  kneaded  with  the  rest  so  that  there  is  no  waste, 
and  then  the  bowl  must  be  greased  slightly  with  butter  or  clean 
drippings,  the  dough  put  back  into  the  bread  bowl  and  greased 
over  the  top.  Cover  with  a  clean  linen  cloth,  and  set  in  a  tem- 
perature of  75  degrees  fahrenheit,  to  rise.  Do  not  put  near  a 
stove  or  in  any  place  where  it  would  be  too  warm  for  one's  own 
comfort.  Notice  the  size  of  the  mass  of  dough,  and  when  it  is 
light  enough  to  mold  again  it  will  be  twice  its  original  size.  If 
the  temperature  of  the  room  is  right,  the  bread  will  be  risen  suf- 
ficiently in  three  hours. 

Toss  out  again  upon  the  molding-board  and  divide  into 
loaves,  mold  them  smooth  and  firm,  using  little  or  no  flour;  put 
into  greased  baking  pans  grease  lightly  over  the  top  of  loaves  and 
let  them  rise  again  to  double  their  size.  The  best  pans  for  bak- 
ing bread  are  a  square  cornered  oblong,  usually  called  brick 
loaf  size.  Each  loaf  should  be  in  a  separate  pan  and  when  the 
loaf  is  put  into  it,  it  should  be  barely  half  filled.     This  allows 


for  rising  till  it  is  even  with  the  top  of  the  pan  and  so  ready  for 
the  oven.  In  ordinary  weather  it  will  take  about  an  hour  to  rise. 
In  hot,  summer  weather,  the  rising  each  time  will  be  accomplish- 
ed a  little  quicker  than  during  the  remainder  of  the  year.  When 
the  bread  is  in  the  moderately  hot  oven,  it  must  rise  but  not 
brown  for  the  first  fifteen  minutes.  Then  it  may  begin  brown- 
ing and  at  the  end  of  forty-five  minutes,  tip  the  loaf  out  of  the 
pan  and  if  the  sides  look  white,  the  loaf  must  be  returned  to  the 
oven  for  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  whole  loaf  is 
baked  a  pretty  golden  brown,  on  sides  and  bottom  as  well  as 
top.  When  sufficiently  baked  remove  from  the  oven  and  stand 
the  loaves  up  to  cool,  leaving  them  so  that  air  can  circulate  freely 
all  about  them.  Brush  them  over  the  top  with  a  little  sweet  milk, 
to  soften  the  crust  a  little.  Do  not  cover  them  with  anything  and 
when  perfectly  cold,  put  away  in  a  freshly  washed  and  scalded 
earthen  jar  with  cover,  or  a  sweet  tin  bread  box.  Do  not  wrap 
the  loaves  in  a  towel  or  cloth  of  any  kind.  The  bread  so  treated 
will  taste  of  the  cloth. 

Suggestions:  Many  persons  object  to  the  proportion  here 
given  of  yeast  and  wetting,  but  scientific  tests  have  shown  that 
the  best  and  most  nutritious  results  is  secured  by  this  propor- 
tion, and  the  bread  will  not  taste  yeasty  as  it  is  apt  to  do  when 
less  yeast  is  used  and  the  dough  is  longer  in  rising. 

Always  be  careful  not  to  scald  the  yeast  when  adding  it  to 
the  hot  water  and  milk.    The  finger  is  a  safe  thermometer  to  use. 

There  can  be  no  measure  of  flour  in  making  bread,  as  flours 
differ  in  the  quantity  of  moisture.  The  only  safe  rule  is  not  to 
add  more  flour,  when  the  dough  ceases  to  stick  to  the  hands  and 
the  bread-board. 

Be  careful  about  the  yeast.  A  good  yeast  cake  will  be  firm 
and  will  break  up  cleanly.  Avoid  yeast  cakes  that  have  become 
soft.  Never  use  tin  or  other  metaf  in  which  to  make  bread.  A 
large  earthen  bowl  is  by  far  the  best  for  this  purpose. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 


NUT  BREAD 

4  C  flour  1  C  English  walnut  meats 

4  t  B.  P.  1C  milk 

2  eggs  1  t  salt 
%  C  sugar 

Beat  eggs.  Add  sugar,  milk,  flour  in  which  the  salt  and  bak- 
ing powder  have  been  mixed.  Last  walnuts.  Mould  into  two 
loaves  and  let  rise  one  half  hour.  Then  bake  slowly  one-half 
hour.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD 

1  C  sweet  milk  3  eggs 

2  C  buttermilk  5  T  corn  meal 
1  t  lard  1  t  soda 

1  t  salt 

Beat  eggs  well.  Add  sweet  milk,  then  corn  meal  to  which 
salt  and  soda  have  been  added.  Then  add  fat  and  buttermilk. 
Bake  in  deep  buttered  pan  from  which  the  bread  is  served  with 
a  spoon.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

POTATO  SPLIT  BISCUIT 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  t  salt 

2  eggs  1  T  sugar 
2  large  potatoes                                  3  pts.  flour 

1  C  lard  and  butter  mixed  1  C  sweet  milk 

About  8:30  o'clock  put  yeast  to  soak  in  the  cup  of  milk. 
Bake  the  potatoes  so  they  will  be  well  done  by  nine  o'clock.  Put 
thru  a  ricer  or  sieve.  Into  the  hot  potato  put  lard  and  butter 
previously  creamed.  Add  salt  and  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten. 
Then  add  yeast  and  milk  and  two  pts.  of  the  flour.  Set  in  a 
warm  place  for  three  hours,  then  stir  in  1  qt.  of  flour.  Let  it 
stand  until  two  hours  before  dinner,  when  place  on  molding 
board.  Roll  about  one-half  inch  thick.  Cut  with  large  cutter. 
Spread  one  biscuit  with  soft  butter  and  place  another  biscuit  on 
top.  Stick  thru  with  finger.  Let  it  rise  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  one-half  hour.  Butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  or  grated 
cocoanut  can  be  added  over  top  of  these  biscuits  with  pleasing 
effect. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

SIMPLE  NUT  BREAD 

4  C  flour  %  t  salt 

4  t  B.  P.  2  C  milk 

%  C  granulated  sugar  1  C  nuts 

Let  rise  20  minutes,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


-12- 


SALLIE  LUNN 

1  pt.  flour  iy2  t  baking  powder 

2  T  sugar  2  T  butter 
1  egg  Vs  t  salt 

1  C  milk 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  in  flour — melt  butter  and 
add  to  milk  and  beaten  egg.    Mix  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Julia  King  Vail. 

SOUR  MILK  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

1  t  salt  1  C  flour 

1  t  soda  1  egg 

1  C  sour  milk 

Beat  together  thoroughly  sour  milk  and  egg.  Mix  dry  in- 
gredients and  add  to  the  milk  and  egg,  then  again  beat  thorough- 
ly.   This  makes  about  18  cakes. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

MUFFINS  CORN  WITH  DATES  j 

1  C  corn  meal  1  T  brown  sugar 

1  C  flour  2  T  butter 
y2  t  salt  1  C  milk 

4  t  baking  powder  %  C  dates  (chopped) 

Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  and 
sugar.  Add  melted  butter,  milk;  mix  well  and  add  chopped 
dates.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

GEMS 

2  eggs  2  t  baking  powder 
1  T  of  butter  2  pt.  flour 

1  pt.  of  cream  1  t  salt 

1  T  sugar 

Melt  butter.  Beat  eggs  separately.  If  preferred,  graham 
flour  can  be  used — one-third  graham  and  two-thirds  white  flour. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

SPOON  BREAD 

2  C  water  1  T  fat 
1  C  milk  2  eggs 
1  C  cornmeal  2  t  salt 

Mix  water  and  corn  meal  and  boil  five  minutes.  Beat  eggs, 
mix  with  milk,  fat  and  salt.  Beat  all  well  into  the  mush  and  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  deep  buttered  pan  from  which  the  bread 
is  served  with  a  spoon. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 


-13- 


NUT  BREAD  SWEET 

2  C  sugar  2  eggs 

1  C  sour  cream  1  C  nuts 

1  C  butter  1  t  soda 

3  C  flour  y8  t  salt 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  chop  nuts,  sift  soda  in  flour,  cut  but- 
ter into  flour,  and  mix  all  thoroughly.  Bake  one  hour  in  two 
small  loaves. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

ROLLS  POCKET  BOOK 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  T  butter,  melted 

3  T  sugar  1  t  salt 

1  egg    "  6  C  flour 

1  pt.  sweet  milk 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  1%  C  luke  warm  water — stir  in  1  C 
flour,  cover  and  leave  in  a  warm  place,  2  hrs.  If  it  is  light  and 
bubbly  over  the  top  your  yeast  is  good,  add  egg  well-beaten;  add 
the  slightly  warm  milk  which  about  20  min.  ago  you  brought 
just  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and  the 
flour.  Knead  on  the  bread-board  until  it  does  not  stick  to  your 
hands.  Set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  again.  Place  dough 
on  board  and  roll  to  M>  inch  thickness,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
brush  butter  over  and  fold  over  pressing  edges  together.  Al- 
low to  rise,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  min.  Set  yeast  at 
night  if  wanted  for  luncheon. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

ROLLS  IN  ONE  HOUR 

4  cakes  compressed  yeast  2  T  lard 

1  T  sugar  1  T  butter 

2  C  warm  milk  Flour 

Fix  yeast  with  sugar  and  fill  %  pint  cup  with  warm  milk, 
take  2  cups  warm  milk  and  put  needed  amount  of  flour  in  pan, 
butter,  lard,  make  as  bread. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

PECAN  BREAD 

4  C  flour  1  C  pecans  cut  up 

1  C  sugar  1  egg 

3  t  baking  powder  2  C  milk 
y2  t  salt 

Sift  the  first  four  ingredients.  Add  egg  beaten  light  and  the 
milk  and  beat  hard.    Let  rise  30  minutes.    Bake  in  two  loaves. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

TOAST  CREAM 

1  pt.  milk  4  slices  toast 

!/4  pt.  cream  y2  t  salt 

Heat  milk  and  cream  to  scalding,  in  double  boiler,  add  salt 
and  pour  on  toast. 


-14— 


TOAST  AMERICAN 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 
ys  t  salt 

Beat  egg  thoroughly,  mix  with  milk.  Dip  piece  of  toast  in 
mixture,  moistening  thoroughly,  and  fry  on  hot  buttered  griddle. 
Butter  and  serve  hot. 

CRUST  CUPS 

2  eggs  (yolks)  %  pt.  milk 
14  lb.  flour 

Beat  eggs,  then  add  some  milk,  then  flour,  etc.  Cook  on 
iron. 

TIMBAL  IRON  BATTER 

34  C  flour  y2  C  milk 

y2  t  salt  1  egg 

1  t  sugar  1  T  olive  oil 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— THE  REAL 

1  C  rye  meal  1  t  salt 

1  C  yellow  corn  meal  2  t  soda 

y2  C  graham  flour  (sifted)  2-3  C  molasses 

%  C  white  flour  2  C  thick  sour  cream 


Steam  three  hours. 


WAFFLES 


2  C  flour  1  T  melted  butter 

1  t  B.  P.  1/2  t  salt 

1%  C  milk  3  eggs  beaten  separately 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  put  the  beaten  egg 
yolks  in  the  milk  and  add  the  flour,  the  melted  butter,  and  last 
the  white  of  the  eggs. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

NUT  BREAD 

3%  C  flour  1  C  sugar 

3y2  t  baking  powder  1  C  milk 

1  t  salt  1  egg 
1  C  English  walnuts 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  five  times.  Beat  egg  mix  with 
milk.  Mix  all  together.  Put  in  2  pans.  Let  rise  20  minutes. 
Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Potts. 


—15— 


DROP  BISCUITS 

1  C  flour  2  t  B.  P. 

2  T  fat  V2  t  salt 
14  C  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  the  fat,  then  add  the  milk. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  on  to  a  well  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

BREAD  OATMEAL 

2  C  oatmeal  1  t  salt 

1  C  B  sugar  1  T  lard 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

Pour  boiling  water  over  oatmeal,  when  lukewarm,  add  sugar, 
salt,  lard,  yeast  and  flour  to  make  sponge.  When  light  add  flour 
to  make  in  loaves.    Let  rise  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  N.  Baldwin. 

BROWN  BREAD  STEAMED 

2  C  graham  flour  1  C  white  flour 
1  C  cornmeal  1  C  molasses 

1  C  sweet  milk  2  t  soda 

1  C  sour  milk  1  t  salt 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  well  together  add  sweet  milk 
and  molasses,  and  sour  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Divide  the  whole  into  three  well  greased  B.  P.  cans  (grease  the 
lids  also.)  Steam  2  hours  in  covered  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Remove  can  covers  and  bake  20  or  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell, 
by  Mrs.  Norton. 

WAFFLES,  KAFFIR 

1  pt.  milk  2  T  melted  butter 
%  t  salt  1  T  syrup 

2  C  Kaffir  flour  3  eggs 

3  t  B.  P. 

Break  egg  yolks  into  crock,  beat,  add  salt,  syrup,  butter,  and 
milk.  Mix  B.  P.  and  flour  and  add.  Fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg 
whites.    Bake  on  well  greased  hot  waffle  irons. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

WAFFLES  CRISP 

1  lb.  butter  1  pt.  flour 

1  qt.  milk  4  t  B.  P. 

4  eggs  (beaten  separately)  1  t  salt 

Heat  butter  and  milk  together.  When  cool  add  rest  of  in- 
gredients.   Beat  well. 

Mrs.  N.  Baldwin. 


-16— 


GEMS  GRAHAM 

1  C  graham  flour  4  t  B.  P. 

4  T  sugar  4  T  butter  (melted) 

1  egg    "  1  t  salt 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  for  rather  thick  batter.    Salt.    Bake  in 

quick  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

1  egg  2  C  graham  flour 
14  t  salt  %  C  milk 

2  t  B.  P.  IT  butter 

Cream  the  sugar,  salt  and  butter,  add  egg,  alternate  the  milk 
and  1  C  graham,  adding  in  small  portions,  mix  and  beat  well. 
It  should  not  be  very  stiff  nor  runny.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in 
gem  pans.     This  quantity  makes  eight. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

1  C  sour  milk  or  cream  1  egg 

1  t  salt  1  T  sugar 

1  t  soda 

Add  graham  flour  and  make  batter  stiff  as  for  muffins. 
Bake  in  buttered  hot  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Reid. 

DATE  BREAD 

1  qt.  sour  milk  y2  lb.  dates 
4  C  graham  flour  2  t  soda 

2  C  wheat  flour  2  t  salt 
1  C  molasses 

Steam  2  hrs.  in  baking  powder  cans  filled  about  2-3  full. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 

CORN  BREAD 

1  C  flour  1  t  B.  P. 

1  C  corn  meal  1  t  soda 

3  T  butter  1  C  sour  mflk  or  buttermilk 
3  T  sugar  1  t  salt 

2  eggs 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  and  corn  meal,  add  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  melted  butter.  Warm  milk,  add  soda,  then  mix 
with  the  batter.    Bake  in  buttered  tins  20  min. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


17- 


CORN  CAKES 

1  C  flour  3  eggs 

2  C  cornmeal  1  t  soda 
i/2  C  melted  butter  3  t  B.  P. 
2  C  sour  milk  1  t  salt 

1  T  sugar 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  melted  butter,  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  sour  milk  and  then  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fry  on 
a  hot  griddle. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

CORN  BREAD 

2  C  corn  meal  3  eggs 

2  C  flour  1  T  butter 

2  T  sugar  2  C  milk   (sweet) 

1  t  salt  1  C  finely  chopped  dates 

3  t  B.  P. 

Sift  together  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder  and  rub 
in  the  butter.  Add  egg  yolks,  milk  and  dates.  Add  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  quick  oven  in  gem  pans  and  serve 
hot  at  once. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

CORN  BREAD  SPOON 

4  eggs  1  t  salt 

1  pt.  milk  1  T  sugar 

1  C  corn  meal 

Beat  eggs  separately.  Bring  milk  to  a  scalding  point;  add 
corn  meal.  Let  cool  a  little  before  adding  the  eggs,  salt  and 
sugar. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

CORN  BREAD,  SOFT 

3  t  baking  powder  1  pt.  milk 

4  eggs  1  pt.  corn  meal 
1  pt.  corn  gritts  1  T  butter 

Cook  gritts,  use  white  granulated  meal.  Have  gritts  hot, 
add  butter,  then  eggs,  corn  meal  and  last  of  all,  milk  and  3  t 
baking  powder. 

Have  iron  skillet  very  hot  and  well  greased,  pour  in  batter, 
bake  in  quick  oven.  Turn  bottom  side  up  on  large  hot  plate. 
Must  be  served  immediately. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

CORN  BREAD  SOUTHERN 

1  pt  butter  milk  (or  clabber)  1  t  soda 

1  t  salt  2  eggs 

1  pt.  white  corn  meal  (scant)  1  T  melted  butter  (or  lard) 

Mix,  pour  into  a  well  greased,  hot,  shallow  pan  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.    Nice  baked  in  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


-18- 


BROWN  BREAD  WITH  FRUIT 

3%  C  graham  flour  2  T  melted  butter 

2  C  sour  milk  V2  C  currants 

1  t  soda  Y2  C  raisins 

2-3  C  molasses  V2  C  nuts 

1  t  salt 

Add  molasses  last.    Bake  45  min.  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Whitney. 
BRAN  BREAD 

1  cake  yeast  3  C  flour 

%  C  warm  water  1  T  salt 

1  T  butter  V2  C  sugar 

2  T  sugar  2  T  molasses 
1  pt.  milk  2  C  bran 

Soak  Fleishman  yeast  and  B  sugar  in  luke  warm  water. 
Heat  milk  and  add  flour,  lard  and  butter.  Heat,  then  add  yeast. 
Let  stand  and  raise.  Knead  again  and  add  %  C  sugar,  molasses 
and  bran.  If  not  stiff  enough,  add  a  little  more  white  flour.  Let 
raise  again,  knead  again,  make  into  loaves,  raise  once  more  and 
bake  slowly  40  min. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  (CRUMBS) 

1  C  crumbs  1   C  water 

1  C  meal  %  C  molasses 

iy2  t  soda  y2  t  salt 

1   C  graham  flour 

Mix  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  water.    Steam  2  hours. 

BISHOP'S  BREAD 

3  eggs  y2  C  raisins 

1  C  sugar  2  C  flour 
y2  C  nuts                                            2  t  B.  P. 

Stir  into  stiff  batter  and  spread  into  a  dripping  pan,  cook 
until  brown  and  take  from  pan  and  cut  in  strips,  then  put  back 
in  pan  to  brown,  strips  all  over. 

C.  C. 
BISCUITS,  CORN  MEAL 

1V4C  flour  2  t  lard 

3/i  C  cornmeal  2  T  butter 

4  t  B.  P.  1  egg 

2  t  sugar 
14  t  salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together;  cut  the  shortning  into  it 
with  a  knife;  add  the  milk  into  which  the  well-beaten  egg  has 
been  mixed.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  one  half  inch  thick, 
cut  with  cooky  cutter.  Put  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  one 
and  fold  over.  Will  make  sixteen  biscuits.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 


—19- 


BISCUIT  VIRGINIA 

1  T  lard  2-3  C  milk 

1  qt.  flour  2-3  C  water 

1  t  salt 

Rub  lard  into  flour;  add  salt;  mix  milk  and  water,  add  slowly 
to  flour,  stirring  all  the  while.  The  dough  must  be  hard — not 
wet.  Knead  the  dough  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  pound  for  fif- 
teen minutes  longer,  folding  constantly.  Then  roll  very  thin  and 
cut  in  biscuit  shapes,  stick  the  top  of  each  biscuit  with  a  fork. 
Place  in  baking  pan  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other,  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  crisp  and  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes. 

BISCUITS 

1  C  flour  2  t  B.  P. 

2  T  fat  Vi  t  salt 
%  C  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  the  fat,  then  add  the  milk.  Roll 
out.  Cut  in  shape  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  One  dozen  bic- 
cuits. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

BROWN  BREAD 

2  C  corn  meal  3  C  sour  milk 

IMi  C  rye  meal  2  t  soda 

1  C  white  flour  1  C  molasses 

1   C  raisins  1  t  salt 

Disolve  soda  in  little  hot  water.  Add  to  molasses  and  the 
well  mixed  dry  ingredients.  Mix  with  milk  and  last  molasses, 
after  which  raisins  which  have  been  cut  in  two  and  rolled  in  a 
little  flour.    Put  in  baking  powder  cans  and  steam  four  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Brooks. 


TOASTED  ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  T  lard  or  butter 

2  T  sugar  6  C  flour 
1  C  milk  1%  t  salt 
1   C  water 

Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  milk  and  water,  add  lard  or 
butter  and  three  cups  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  then  add  grad- 
ually the  other  3  cups  flour  and  salt.  Place  in  a  well  greased 
bowl,  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise;  when  it  has  risen  twice  as 
high,  roll  to  one  half  inch  thickness  and  cut  into  cakes.  Set 
aside  half  hour,  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  ungreased  griddle 
and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  medium  oven.  When  ready  to  serve 
slice.    Toast  and  spread  with  butter. 

Madeline  Lewis. 


20- 


MUFFINS  BRAN 

2  C  bran  %  C  flour 

1  C  milk  3  t  baking  powder 

Sift  baking  powder  with  flour;  add  milk,  then  bran.    Bake 

in  gem  tins. 

Mrs.  Sp angler. 

OUR  EGG  MUFFINS 

1  egg  4  t  B.  P. 

2  C  milk  2  C  flour 

1  T  sugar  V2  t  salt 

2  T  butter 

Mix  in  order  given.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Pauline  Brown  Gillespie 

BISCUITS  PIN  WHEEL 

2  C  flour  2  T  citron  (finely  chopped) 

2  T  sugar  1-3  C  raisins  (finely  chopped) 

4  t  B.  P.  2-3  C  milk 

y2  t  salt  V2  t  cinnamon 

Mix  as  for  a  baking  powder  mixture;  sift  sugar,  salt,  flour, 
and  baking  powder  together;  cut  in  the  fat,  then  add  the  milk. 
Roll  this  mixture  to  %  inch  in  thickness.  Brush  with  melted 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  fruit,  sugar,  and  citron.  Roll  like  a 
jelly  roll,  cut  off  pieces  %  inch  thick.  Place  on  a  buttered  tin, 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

BREAD  IN  THREE  HOURS 

2  cakes  yeast  (compressed)  1  T  salt 

1  T  sugar  2  C  milk  (blood  warm) 

2  T  lard  1  C  water  (blood  warm) 

Break  yeast  in  a  y2  pt.  cup,  add  sugar,  then  fill  glass  with 
blood  warm  water,  sift  flour  in  large  pan,  put  a  well  in  center, 
add  lard,  salt,  warm  milk  and  salt,  then  yeast,  then  rest  of  milk, 
continue  to  mix  in  flour  till  it  can  be  handled,  then  roll  in  soft 
ball  and  leave  on  board  for  5  minutes  on  flour,  rub  in  buttered 
bowl  and  turn  it  over,  let  stand  one  hour  till  it  doubles,  make  into 
loaves  and  let  stand  till  it  doubles,  then  bake.  This  makes  3 
loaves  and  one  dozen  rolls.  Using  no  milk  and  no  shortning 
makes  a  dry  crust.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

CORN  BREAD 

2  eggs  1  C  flour 

2  T  melted  butter  1  C  corn  meal 

1  T  sugar  5  t  B.  P. 

1  C  sweet  milk 

To  the  well  beaten  eggs  add  milk,  sugar  and  butter;  then 
flour  and  corn  meal.  Beat  until  light;  add  baking  powder.  Turn 
into  well  greased  shallow  tin  pan,  bake  20  minutes  in  moder- 
ate oven.  Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 


—21- 


SALADS 


Almond  Salad 

Alligator  Pear  Salad 

Apple  Salad   (whole) 

Apple  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Artichokes 

Asparagus 

Asparagus  and  Califlower 

Banana  and.  Nut 

Banana 

Beet  Salad 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Cabbage   Salad   Cold 

Cabbage  Salad  Hot 

Calla  Lilly  Salad 

Cauliflower  Salad 
Celery  Salad 
Chestnut  and  Celery 
Chestnut  and  Turkey 
Chicken  Salad 
Chicken  Salad 
Christmas  Salad 
Cold  Slaw 
Combination  Salad 
Crab  Meat  Salad 
Cucumbers  Stuffed 
Cucumber  and  Pineapple 
Cranberry  Salad 

Dainty  Salad  (Cucumbers) 

Dainty  Salad   (green  pepper) 

Easter  Salad 

Endive  Salad 

Frozen  Salad 

Fruit  Salad  and  Dressing. 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad 

Frozen  Tomato  Salad 

Frozen  Vegetable  Salad 

Fruit  Salad 

Fruit  Salad  and  Dressing 

Fruit  Salad 

Fruit  Scallop 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Green  Pea  and  Onion  Salad 

Ham  Salad 

Heavenly  Hash 

Killarney  Salad 

Lamb  Salad 

Lamb  Chop  and  Pea  Salad 

Lemon  Shells 

Lobster  Salad 


Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 
Mrs.  Henry  Allen. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 


C.  C. 

Mrs.   A.   O.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 
Mrs.  H.  A.  English. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 
C.  C. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 
Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 
C.  C. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 
C.  C. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 
Mrs.  J.  J.  McNamara. 
Mrs.   Oak  Throckmorton. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


—24- 


Log  Cabin  Salad 

Marshmallow  Salad 

Nut  Cheese  Balls 

Nut  and  Fig  Salad 

Peach  Salad 

Pear  Salad 

Peas  in  Tomato  Aspic 

Picnic  Salad 

Pimento  Salad 

Pineapple  Salad 

Porcupine  Salad 

Potato  Salad 

Prune  and  Cheese 

Radish,  Cucumber,  Celery 

Salmon  Salad 

Scotch  Woodcock  Salad 

Stuffed  Celery 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Sunflower  Salad 

Suggested  Salads 

Sweet  Bread  Salad 

Tomato  Salad 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

Waldorf  Salad 

Walnut  and  Orange  Salad 

White  Cherry  Salad 

White  Grape  Salad 

White  Salad 

Wilted  Lettuce  with  Bacon 


Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 

Teresa  L.  Comley. 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

c.  c. 
c.  c. 


Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 
Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton 


Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanlev. 
Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes' 


—25— 


SALADS 

Salads  are  most  valuable  in  the  diet  because  they  introduce 
raw  or  fresh  material  in  an  attractive  form.  And  some  raw 
food,  either  vegetable  or  fruit  should  be  eaten  daily.  The  salad 
usually  derives  its  name  from  the  material  most  used  in  its  com- 
position. The  success  of  a  salad  depends  upon  the  absolute 
coldness  of  the  materials,  and  the  tasty  combinations  of  fruits 
or  vegetables  used.  The  dressings'  are  very  varied,  each  salad 
calling  for  its  own  particular  dressing. 

The  dressings  are  only  of  two  classes:  cooked  and  uncooked. 
To  insure  crispness  of  material,  place  on  ice,  or  in  ice  water,  an 
hour  before  using  and  dry  thoroughly  to  prevent  the  moisture 
thinning  the  dressing. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  salad  dressings : 
French  dressing 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 
Cream  or  cooked  dressing. 

The  French  dressing  is  best  made  at  the  table,  having  all  the 
utensils  and  materials  cold.  The  secret  of  all  fine  salad  making 
is  cold  materials,  quick  beating,  and  immediate  service.  Good  oil 
is  most  important.  A  quantity  of  dressing  can  be  made  by  put- 
ting the  ingredients  into  a  covered  fruit  jar,  shake  the  jar  ener- 
getically until  a  smooth  emulsion  is  formed.  The  true  French 
dressing  is  composed  of  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar.  The  true 
Mayonnaise  is  composed  of  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  oil  and  uncook- 
ed egg-yolks.  Other  dressings  come  under  the  head  of  cooked  or 
cream  dressings. 

METHOD  OF  MIXING  FRENCH  DRESSING 

i/j  t  salt  Vs  t  pepper 

1-16  t  paprika  2  T  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 

6  T  oil 

An  onion  or  garlic  should  be  rubbed  over  the  cold  bowl  in 
which  the  dressing  is  to  be  mixed.  Mix  the  oil  and  condiments, 
mix  again.  Then  add  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  a  drop  at  a 
time,  whipping  constantly  with  a  four  pronged  silver  fork  or 
salad  fork,  until  all  the  liquid  is  used,  and  then  whip  5  min. 
Serve  at  once  over  salad;  or  if  mixed  with  salad  must  be  tossed 
lightly.  Some  tastes  require  mustard  added  to  the  above.  This 
is  the  English  dressing.  Some  prefer  Taragon  to  plain  vinegar. 
Lemon  juice  makes  a  more  delicate  dressing,  but  does  not  pro- 
duce a  beautiful  golden  color. 

METHOD  OF  SUCCESSFULLY  MAKING  MAYONNAISE 

There  is  no  danger  of  it  curdling  if  eggs  are  fresh  and  oil 
added  slowly  and  all  thoroughly  cold  and  mixed  in  a  cool  place. 
Reat  always  in  one  direction. 

2  egg-yolks  raw  2  T  vinegar 

1  pt.  olive  oil  2  T  lemon  juice 

1-16  t  paprika  y2  t  salt 


-26— 


Beat  the  yolks  with  a  silver  fork  %  min.,  add  condiments 
and  mix  again.  Then  add  1  t  vinegar  and  mix.  When  well 
mixed  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop.  When  too  thick  to  beat  well 
add  1  t  lemon  juice  and  then  more  oil  alternating  oil  and  acid 
until  all  are  used.  If  desired  thicker  add  more  oil.  The  true 
mayonnaise  uses  all  vinegar,  and  no  lemon  juice,  but  some 
tastes  prefer  the  mixture.  Vinegar  makes  a  more  golden  may- 
onnaise. The  above  is  the  foundation  of  all  mayonnaise.  Dif- 
ferent flavors  or  herbs  may  be  added  for  different  tastes.  2  T 
of  heavy  whipped  cream  may  be  added. 

A  Remulade  sauce  is  made  of  the  cooked  yolks,  rubbing  them 
to  a  smooth  paste  and  proceeding  as  above. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 

This  is  the  foundation  of  most  cream  dressings  where  may- 
onnaise is  not  used  as  a  foundation. 

4  eggs  1    t   salt 

4  T   butter  2  C  water 

%   T   sugar  2  T  flour 

Place  water  and  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Beat  eggs 
separately  and  add  flour  to  them  stirring  out  all  the  lumps  with 
a  silver  fork.  Add  this  slowly  to  the  water  and  butter,  which 
should  be  boiling,  stirring  all  the  time.  Boil  and  stir  15  min.s 
with  a  split  spoon.  If  it  should  lump,  run  through  a  rice  presser 
while  hot.  Stir  in  a  cool  place  until  cold.  Add  sugar  and  salt. 
This  foundation  dressing  will  keep  two  weeks  in  a  cold  place, 
and  whipped  cream,  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar,  olive  oil,  salt,  pep- 

er,  mustard  or  sugar,  or  any  flavoring  or  nuts,  may  be  added. 

t  is  very  stiff.  A  tablespoonful  can  be  used  to  thicken  soup, 
milk  toast  or  Puree  before  the  condiments  are  added.  Cream 
added  to  it  should  be  very  stiff.  In  any  salad  where  tomatoes 
are  used,  more  salt  is  required. 


?, 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SALAD 

Salads  should  be  handled  very  lightly,  tossed  instead  of 
pressed  into  shape.  The  fingers  of  both  hands  spread  apart,  are 
the  best  salad  mixers  that  can  be  used. 

Green  vegetables  must  be  crisp  and  dry. 

All  ingredients  and  materials  must  be  cold. 

Meat  and  foul  should  be  marinated. 

Salads  should  not  be  combined  until  just  before  serving. 

In  many  cases  the  dressing  is  best  served  on  top  the  salad. 

Light  vegetable  salads  dressed  with  French  dressings  are 
served  with  dinner,  while  heavy  meat  and  fish  salads  are  for 
luncheons  or  supper,  served  with  Mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing. 

A  fruit  salad  is  served  at  a  luncheon  or  supper  with  thick 
dressing. 

A  fruit  salad  with  French  dressing  may  be  served  at  dinner 
with  game  or  roast. 

The  right  place  for  salad  is  with  the  game  or  roast. 

Crisp  green  vegetable  with  French  dressing  or  only  lemon 

—27— 


juice  is  most  delicious  and  aids  as  a  complement  to  the  heavy 
meat  course.  . 

Celery  may  be  kept  fresh  by  wrapping  the  bunches  in  brown 
paper  to  exclude  the  air,  sprinkle  with  water,  then  wrap  in  a 
damp  cloth  and  put  in  cool  dark  place. 

To  keep  lettuce  or  parsley  put  in  cold  place  in  air  tight  bag. 

To  keep  pimentos  after  opening,  scald  and  put  in  a  glass 
fruit  jar  with  closed  lid. 

With  fish  salads  serve  brown  bread  sandwiches,  also  with 
cold  fish  lobster  or  crab  salads. 

With  beef  salad  serve  chopped  cress  or  parsley  sandwiches. 

With  chicken  salad  serve  nut  sandwiches. 

Cabbage  salad  requires  sugar  in  the  dressing. 

A  little  olive  oil  may  be  added  to  a  boiled  dressing  for  chick- 
en or  fish. 

COMBINATIONS  FOR  SALADS 
Celery  and  apple  Beets  and  beans 

White  grape  and  nut  Lettuce   and  Roquefort 

Cheese    and    tomato  Spinach  and  egg 

Beet   and   celery  Celery  and  tomato 

Tomato  and  peppers  Cabbage  and  almonds 

SIMPLE  SALADS 

The  simplest  fruit  salads  may  be  made  by  combining  what- 
ever fruit  you  have,  and  boiling: 

y>  pt.  sugar  30  drops  lemon  juice 

y>   pt.  water  Vi   t  salt 

Boil  7  min.,  cool  and  pour  over  cold  fruit.  This  is  a  good 
simple  accompaniment  to  a  heavy  meat  dinner. 

ALMOND  SALAD 

1  pkg.  Knox  gelatine  soaked  in      1  medium  sized  can  sliced  pine- 

M>  C  cold  water  apple 

1  C  blanched  almonds  8  sweet  pickles 

Cut  these  into  small  pieces.  Then  cook  1%  C  sugar.  %  C 
vinegar,  %  C  water  to  a  thick  syrup,  or  until  it  hairs  well.  Add 
pineapple  juice  while  still  hot,  also  gelatine  and  let  cool.  Then 
add  pineapple  and  nuts,  pickles,  and  mold.  Serve  with  boiled 
mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 
Alligator  pear  should  be  served  with  French  dressing. 

APPLE  SALAD  (WHOLE) 
8  apples  y±  pt.  water 

1  pt.  sugar  .         1  C  blanched  almonds 

First  remove  the  core,  then  peel  apples.  This  preserves 
them  whole.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water;  while  boiling 
drop  in  apples  and  cook  until  clear,  being  careful  not  to  break. 
Cool  in  syrup,  fill  centers  with  chopped  nuts  and  serve  with  may- 
onnaise dressing. 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen. 

—28— 


APPLE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  C  apple  cubed  1  t  sugar 

1  C  pineapple  cubed  V2  C  lemon  juice 

1-16  t  salt 

Mix  apple  and  pineapple.  Mix  salt,  sugar  and  lemon  juice 
well,  and  stir  into  fruit.  Have  all  very  cold  and  salad  plates 
cold. 

ARTICHOKES 

Artichokes  are  best  served  with  a  Tartar  sauce,  the  leaves 
being  broken  from  the  artichokes  with  the  fingers  and  dipped  in 
the  sauce.  French  people  always  eat  lettuce  with  their  fingers. 
Cutting  seems  to  take  o 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Asparagus  1  hard  boiled  egg 

Lettuce  leaves  1  T  pickle 

Y2  T  parsley  dressing  1  T  pimento 

4  T  olive  oil  2  T  lemon  juice 

y2  t  salt  Vs  t  pepper 

Arrange  several  stalks  of  cooked  asparagus,  which  has  been 
chilled,  on  a  bed  of  cirsp  lettuce  leaves  and  arrange  the  following 
mixture  to  represent  a  band  across  the  middle  of  the  bunch.  To 
the  white  of  1  hard  boiled  egg  finely  divided  or  chopped,  add 
finely  chopped  pickle,  pimento  and  parsley.  Pour  over  a  dress- 
ing made  of  the  olive  oil,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 

ASPARAGUS  AND  CAULIFLOWER 

1    C   Cauliflower    (Cooked)  1  C  Mayonnaise 

1  C  Asparagus  tips  (Cooked) 

Break  cauliflower  into  flowers  and  surround  with  asparagus 
tips.  Pour  over  both  a  Mayonnaise  dressing,  and  sprinkle  with 
finely  sliced  pimentos. 

BANANA  AND  NUT  SALAD 

6  Bananas  y2  c  nuts  (Pecans) 

Chill  bananas  in  lengthwise  strips,  roll  in  nuts  and  serve 

2  to  a  person  on  lettuce  leaves  with  2  T  of  Mayonnaise  on  each 
plate  between  the  2  layers  of  bananas.    All  must  be  cold. 

BANANA  SALAD 

V-2  C  sugar  4  bananas 

1   T  water  y4  C  walnuts 

V2  lemon  6  candied  cherries 
1-16  salt 

Boil  sugar,  water,  lemon  and  salt.  When  very  cold  slice 
bananas,  chop  walnuts,  halve  the  cherries  and  pour  all  over 
banana.    This  prevents  their  darkening. 

—29— 


BEET  SALAD 

1  qt.  cabbage  2  C  sugar 

1  qt.  beets  1  t  salt 

1  C  horseradish  V-i  t  pepper 
1  C  vinegar 

Chop  cabbage.  Cook  beets  and  chop.  Grate  horseradish 
and  add  vinegar.    Mix  thoroughly.  C.  C. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SALAD 

1  pt  sprouts  2  T  capers 

2  T  onions  Ms  C  olives 

1  T  chopped  celery  or  celery  %  C  walnuts 
seed  1  T  lemon  juice 

Boil  and  drain  sprouts,  cool,  add  onions,  capers,  olives,  wal- 
nuts and  celery  all  chopped  fine.  Mix  together  with  lemon  juice 
and  pour  over  all  a  mayonnaise  dressing.    Serve  ice  cold. 

CABBAGE  SALAD  (COLD) 

2  C  cabbage  2  C  green  peppers 
1  C  onions  1  t  catsup 

COLD  DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE  SALAD 

Slice  cabbage,  peppers  and  onions  very  thin.  Pour  over 
this  a  rich  French  dressing  in  which  you  have  mixed  a  t.  of  cat- 
sup and  let  stand  in  ice-box  for  two  hours  before  using.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

HOT  CABBAGE  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

y2  cabbage  (small  head)  1  t  mustard 

1  C  vinegar  2  t  sugar 

1  egg  1  t  salt 

2  T  butter  %  t  pepper 

Let  vinegar  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  together  egg  and  other  in- 
gredients and  pour  over  this  mixture  the  boiling  vinegar.  Stir 
well,  return  to  the  stove  and  cook  2  or  3  minutes.  Pour  over 
chopped  cabbage  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 

CALLA  LILLY  SALAD 

Make  a  pie  crust,  not  too  rich,  and  roll  thin. 

To  make  shells,  cut  a  circle  10  in.  in  diameter  of  glazed 
white  paper,  as  heavy  as  will  roll.  Fold  in  quarters;  cut;  roll 
over  and  fasten  with  a  pin,  in  the  shape  of  a  cone.  Take  a  sim- 
ilar quarter,  cut  off  the  center  point  1  in.  and  round  off  the 
outer  edges,  to  form  lilly.     Use  this  for  pattern,  cut  crust  with 


-30- 


sharp  pointed  knife.  Place  on  cones  and  press  together  at  small 
end  by  moistening  with  a  little  water.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  in 
moderate  oven,  until  they  slip  off  the  cone,  but  not  too  brown. 
The  cones  may  be  used  a  second  time,  but  the  better  way  is  to 
use  new  ones.  Lay  the  shell  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  fill  with  any 
white  salad.  Cover  with  whipped  cream,  and  place  stamen  in 
place,  made  of  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  moistened  with 
mayonnaise.  Make  roll  about  an  inch  long.  This  is  very  at- 
tractive. Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Break  the  cold  boiled  cauliflower  into  flowerets  and  serve 
with  Tartar  sauce  or  Mayonnaise. 

CELERY  SALAD 

Cut  ripe  olives  and  pimentos  in  small  pieces,  mix  this  with 
neuchatel  cheese,  line  the  larger  stalks  of  celery,  tie  two  stalks 
together  until  the  cheese  is  firm,  then  use  a  sharp  knife  and 
slice.  Pour  oil  dressing  over  this  and  a  dash  of  Mayonnaise. 
These,  of  course,  are  put  on  a  large  leaf  of  lettuce. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

CHRISTMAS  SALAD 

1  cup  sweet  cooked  mayonnaise,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  with 
cottage  cheese  until  firm  enough  to  mold  in  tall  bowl.  Place  on 
ice.  Make  ring  of  cranberry  jelly  or  tomato  aspic.  Put  this  on 
platter.  Place  cheese  in  center  of  ring.  Around  outside  of  jelly 
put  more  mayonnaise  mixed  with  whipped  cream  and  chopped 
almonds.     Garnish  with  lettuce  and  red  pimentos. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

CHESTNUT  AND  CELERY 
Cut  chestnuts  in  half,  add  small  pieces  of  celery  and  Maras- 
chino cherries.    Serve  with  a  French  dressing  over  all. 

CHESTNUT  AND  TURKEY  SALAD 

1  C  cooked  chestnuts  (hulled) 

2  C  Turkey  (dark  and  light  meat) 

Cut  chestnuts  in  half  and  Turkey  in  cubes.  Dip  the  meat  in 
olive  oil  and  drain.  Mix  with  the  chestnuts  and  serve  with 
Mayonnaise. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

1  chicken  7  egg-yoks 

3  stalks  celery  1  egg-white 
ly^C  vinegar  1  t  mustard 

1  t  salt  %  t  white  pepper 

1  C  whipped  cream  1  t  flour  or  starch 

Boil  vinegar,  pour  over  yolks,  then  boil  till  thick.  Add 
mustard  and  flour  or  starch,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  till  very 
thick,  then  cool  thoroughly.    Add  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


—31 


CHICKEN  SALAD 

2  C  cold  chicken  (white  meat      y2  C  pecans 

preferred)  %  t  salt 

1  C  celery  %  t  pepper 

1  C  Mayonnaise 

Cut  the  celery  and  chicken  in  V2  in.  cubes,  Marinate  the 
chicken,  drain,  add  the  nuts  and  celery  and  mix  with  a  stiff 
mayonnaise.  The  celery  must  be  kept  on  ice  until  crisp  and 
thoroughly  dry. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

CRAB  MEAT  SALAD 

2  Stalks  Celery  4  Cans  (medium  sized)   Crab  Meat 

1  Cup  Blanched  Almonds       One  half  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs 
Olive  Oil  Mayonnaise 

Serve  on  head  lettuce  leaves  and  at  last  minute  mix  thru 
some  shredded  lettuce.    Will  serve  16. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

COLD  SLAW 
Shred  cabbage  very  fine  on  slaw  cutter. 

Dressing  for  Slaw 

2  T  sweet  cream  (Whipped)  4  T  vinegar 
2  T  sugar  V2  t  salt 

Cover  the  slaw  with  this  dressing  and  serve. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  English. 

COMBINATION  SALAD 

V2  C  radishes  M>  C  onion 

1  C  cucumber  %  head  lettuce 

1  C  tomato  1  T  parsley 
%  C  celery 

Slice  cucumbers,  onions  and  radishes  in  ring.  'Cut  tomatoes 
in  square  dices.  Mince  parsley,  cut  celery  in  in.  sticks.  Mix  all 
together  and  serve  with  French  Dressing.  All  must  be  cold.  Do 
not  let  stand. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Long. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

6  cucumbers  2  T  celery 

2  tomatoes 

Pear  a  cucumber,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  remove  seeds  and 
stand  on  ice  1  hr.  Chop  tomato  using  just  the  hard  part;  chop 
celery  fine,  mix  with  3  T  of  Mayonnaise  and  fill  cucumber  shells. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

—32— 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

1  qt.  cranberries  21/*  T  gelatin 

2  C  boiling  water  1  C  diced  celery 

2  C  sugar  1-3  C  walnut  meats 

Cook  cranberries  and  water  together  for  20  min.  Run 
thru  sieve,  stir  in  sugar  and  cook  5  min.  Add  gelatin  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water.  Just  before  this  begins  to  set  pour  half  of 
the  mixture  into  a  shallow  enameled  pan  which  has  been  rinsed 
in  cold  water.  Allow  to  set  keeping  the  remainder  warm  from 
becoming  stiff.  Over  the  first  half  sprinkle  celery  and  nuts, 
pour  remainder  of  gelatin  mixture  over  this  and  allow  to  set. 
Serve  as  a  salad  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

CUCUMBER  AND  PINEAPPLE 

1  pt.  can  pineapple,  cut  in  fine  1%  packages  gelatine 

pieces  %  t  vanilla 

1   good  sized  cucumber  sliced  juice  from  6  lemons 

fine  1  C  sugar 

Heat  the  lemon  and  pineapple  juices  adding  sugar  and 
Knox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  C  cold  water.  When  dissolved,  add 
to  the  heated  mixture  on  the  stove.  Boil  2  min.  Strain,  and 
pour  over  pineapple  and  cucumber,  mix  together  and  let  set  in 
a  shallow  granite  pan.  Cut  in  squares,  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 
Serve  with  Mayonnaise  dressing  with  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

DAINTY  SALAD  (CUCUMBER) 

Pare  cucumber,  scoop  out  part  of  inside  and  stuff  with  a 
cream  cheese  (In  jars).  Let  set  in  refrigerator  until  ice  cold. 
Slice  and  serve  with  head  lettuce  or  tomatoes  with  thousand 
island  dressing. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

DAINTY  SALAD  (GREEN  PEPPERS) 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  pepper,  fill  with  soft  cream  cheese, 
let  it  stand  in  ice  box  until  very  cold,  then  slice  and  serve  with 
any  dressing  desired,  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

EASTER  SALAD  (LILLIES) 

6  hard  boiled  eggs  2  T  Mayonnaise 

6  lettuce  leaves 

Cut  the  egg  whites  into  pointed  petal-like  strips.  Reserve  the 
yolks  of  3.  Mash  the  other  yolks.  Mix  with  Mayonnaise  and 
fill  the  calex  of  the  petals  with  the  mixture.  Put  the  3  yolks 
through  a  ricer,  dropping  over  the  petals  to  give  the  appearance 
of  pollen.  Cut  lettuce  leaves  in  fine  points  to  simulate  the  outer 
green.    Served  on  glass  dishes  to  resemble  water. 


-33— 


ENDIVE  SALAD 

Endive  is  kept  on  ice  and  served  cold  with  a  French  dress- 
ing. Lettuce  the  same.  Cucumbers  are  best  served  ice  cold 
with  a  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar. 

FROZEN  SALAD 

Make  a  rich  mayonnaise,  then  add  white  cherries,  nuts, 
grapes  or  anything  you  care  to  add  as  a  fruit  salad,  pack  in 
baking  powder  cans  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  4  hrs.  Serve 
on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  a  dash  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

FRUIT  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

V*  C  cream,  whipped  4  T  sugar 

3  T  lemon  juice  salt 

Put  in  lemon  juice,  drop  by  drop  the  same  as  oil.  The  fruit 
for  salad,  even  quantities  of  oranges,  pineapples,  %  as  much 
apple,  grapes,   dates,   and   nuts. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

y2  envelope  Knox  gelatine  %  t  cayenne 

2"T  cold  water  2-3  C  milk 

1  T  butter  1-3  C  vinegar 

2  eggs  (yolks)  2  T  canned  pineapple  juice 

3  T  sugar  1  C  prepared  fruit 
1  t  salt  1  C  heavy  cream 
1-3  t  paprika  lettuce 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Melt  butter,  and 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  sugar,  salt,  paprika,  and  cayenne. 
Remove  from  "fire  and  add  gradually  milk,  vinegar,  and  pine- 
apple juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  and  add  soaked  gelatin.  Remove  from  range,  and 
beat  2  minutes.  Cool,  stirring  occasionally,  and  when  beginning 
to  set,  add  prepared  fruit,  using  Maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  strained,  orange  pulp,  canned  sliced  pineapple,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  being  careful  that  the 
fruit  does  not  settle  to  the  bottom.  Pack  in  a  wet  brick  mold, 
having  mixture  overflow  the  mold,  adjust  cover,  and  pack  in 
finely  crushed  ice  and  rock  salt,  using  2  parts  ice  to  1  part  salt, 
and  let  stand  2  hrs.  Remove  to  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and 
cut  in  slices,  crosswise,  for  serving.  Accompany  with  Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

C.  C. 

FROZEN  TOMATO  SALAD 

Pack  a  can  of  tomatoes  in  ice.  Let  stand  4  hrs.  and  serve 
with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

—34— 


FROZEN  VEGETABLE  SALAD 

5  Blue  Label  cheese  1  C  mayonnaise 

2  green  peppers  1  C  cream  (whipped) 

1  C  nuts  1  can  pimentos 

Mash  the  cheese,  grind  the  peppers  and  pimentos,  cut  the 
nuts  fine,  and  add  the  salad  dressing  and  whipped  cream,  pack 
in  baking  powder  cans,  in  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice  and  let 
stand  3  hrs.,  serve  in  slices  on  lettuce.    Will  serve  18  or  20. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

%  box  gelatine  10  nuts 

6  figs  2  C  sugar 

2  oranges  V-i  pt.  boiling  water 
9  dates  %  pt.  cold  water 

2  lemons 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  20  min.,  dissolve  in  hot  water. 
Add  juice  of  lemons  and  sugar.  Strain  and  let  stand  until  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Stir  in  all  the  fruit  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
let  harden.    Serve  with  Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

FRUIT  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

1  can  white  cherries  1  can  pineapple 

1  C  water  %  lb.  almonds 

1  pt.  Mayonnaise  1  pt.  whipped  cream 
1  package  gelatine 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water.  Scald  the  juice  of  cherries  and 
pineapple,  and  add  gelatine.  When  cool  stir  in  the  mayonnaise 
and  whipped  cream.  When  it  begins  to  set,  add  the  cherries, 
pineapple  and  blanched  almonds,  cut  fine.  Fill  individual  molds 
or  platter.  Chill.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  French  dress- 
ing. 

DRESSING 

Juice  1  lemon;  juice  1  orange;  1  T  olive  oil,  1  T  juice  Maras- 
chino cherries.  Put  in  glass  can,  cover  and  shake  until  well 
blended. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

1  can  pineapple  juice  of  1  lemon 

3  oranges  2  C  water 
6  bananas  (sliced)  2  C  sugar 
%  box  gelatine 

Omit  lemon  juice  if  berries  are  used.  It  may  be  served  in 
orange  shells. 

Slice  pineapple,  oranges  and  bananas.  Dissolve  gelatine  in 
water,  add  all  together  with  sugar. 

C.  C. 


—35- 


FRUIT  SCALLOP 

1  C  pineapple  1  T  sugar 

1  C  oranges  1  C  apple 

2  C  walnut  meats  1  C  seeded  grapes 
1  banana  1  C  strawberries 

1  C  lemon  juice  1  C  cherries 
y2  t  salt 

Alternate  layers  of  nuts  and  fruit  and  pour  over  all  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  sugar  mixed  well. 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

1-3  C  sugar  1%  T  gelatine 

1-3  C  water  1  T  lemon  juice 

%  C  grapefruit  juice  ]/s  t  salt 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water,  add  other  ingredients.  Put  in 
indvidual  molds.  Serve  with  Neufchatel  cheese  on  mold  and 
mayonnaise  on  top. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

3  grapefruit  1  t  paprika 
y^  C  French  dressing 

Chill  the  grapefruit,  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  take  out  the 
pulp  and  cover  with  cold  French  dressing.  A  strip  of  pimento 
may  be  used  on  each  as  an  ornament.     Sprinkle  with  paprika. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Long 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

2  C  grapefruit  juice  and  pulp        Vo  cake  chili  cheese 
2-3  C  boiling  water  cream 

2-3  C  sugar  Few  chopped  nuts 

Mix  1  package  of  gelatin 

1  tinfoil  of  cream  cheese 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  hot  water,  add  sugar,  add  to  grapefruit 
pulp,  put  small  amount  in  individual  mold,  add  layed  of  cheese 
mixed  with  cream  and  nuts,  then  put  layer  of  grapefruit  gelatin 
on  top.  This  makes  six  individual  portions.  Serve  with  oil 
mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 

GREEN  PEA  AND  ONION  SALAD 

1  can  peas  1  T.  onion 

Drain  and  chill  peas  and  onion.  Chop  onion  very  fine.  Mix 
peas  and  onion.  Marinate  thoroughly  with  cold  French  Dressing. 
Serve  very  cold  on  crisp  cold  lettuce  leaves. 

C.  C. 


—36— 


HAM  SALAD 

1  C  cold  chopped  boiled  ham  1  bay  leaf 

1  C  stock  of  ham  2  small  red  peppers 

1  T  onion  1  T  gelatine 

%  C  water 

Chop  onion,  add  with  spices  to  stock.  Cook  10  min.,  dissolve 
gelatine  in  water,  add  and  strain  and  when  it  begins  to  set,  stir 
in  ham.  Fill  molds,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

HEAVENLY  HASH  SALAD 

1  C  chopped  marshmallows  1  C  chopped  cabbage 

1  C  pineapple  1  C  sliced  almonds 

Mix  all  together  and  then  fold  in  cream  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

KILLARNEY  SALAD 

%  pt.  mayonnaise  2-3  C  milk 

y2  pt.  whipped  cream  3  T  apple  juice 

2  eggs  1-3  C  pineapple  juice 
2  T  sugar  1  T  lemon  juice 

1-3  C  vinegar  y2  C  pecans,  broken 

1  T  flour  %  C  cherries,  cut 

%  t  salt  %  t  paprika 

1  T  butter 

Boil  milk,  add  flour,  butter  and  paprika,  beaten  eggs,  sugar 
and  salt.  Then  cool  and  add  fruit  juices,  nuts  and  cherries. 
Freeze  3  hrs.    Serves  8  people. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  McNamara. 

LAMB  CHOP  AND  PEA  SALAD 

6  French  Lamb  Chops  1  small  can  peas. 

Bake  chops  and  cut  from  bone  chopping  into  fine  bits. 
Cool  and  mix  with  cold  peas.  Cover  with  French  dressing  and 
sprinkle  1  T  finely  minced  mint  leaves  over  all.  If  these  are  not 
procurable  add  1  T  mint  sauce  to  the  Dressing. 

Mrs.  C.  Long. 

LEMON  SHELLS 

Lemon  shells  iced,  stuffed  with  cucumbers  and  bits  of  lemon 
pulp,  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

LOBSTER  SALAD 

1  can  lobster  1  small  onion 

5  lettuce  leaves  6  tomatoes 

Chop  lobster  meat  coarsely.  Prepare  in  same  way  the  onion 
and  lettuce  leaves.  Season  to  taste.  Hollow  out  the  tomatoes 
and  fill  with  salad.  Any  cold  meat  may  be  added  to  the  lobster. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


—37- 


LAMB  SALAD 

y2  pound  cold  cooked  lamb  1  teaspoon  mint  juice 

1  cucumber  cut  fine  1  cup  mayonnaise  oil 

y2  can  of  peas 

Mrs.  Oak  Trockmorton. 

LOG  CABIN  SALAD 

y%  C  grated  cheese  x/2  C  butter 

1  C  flour  1  t  paprika 

!/4  t  cinnamon 

Rub  together  all  ingredients.  Mix  with  ice  water.  Roll 
very  thin,  cut  in  straws.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  When  cool  pile 
in  log  cabin  style  on  a  large  platter  and  leave  a  space  inside  in 
which  pile  some  good  fruit  salad  or  vegetable  salad  mixed  with 
French  dressing  and  a  %  C  of  mayonnaise  piled  on  top. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 

1  C  sour  whipped  cream  1  small  can  diced  pineapple 

1  C  sweet  whipped  cream  y2  juice  of  lemon  in  sour  cream 

1  C  pecans  Salad   dressing  on  top. 

y2  lb.  Marshmallows,  cut  fine. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

NUT-CHEESE  BALLS 

y2  C  cream  cheese  14  C  celery 

y^  C  pecans  Vi  C  olives 

Chop  pecans,  celery  and  olives  fine,  mix  celery  and  olives 
with  cream  cheese.  Make  into  balls  and  roll  in  nuts.  Place 
molded  currant  or  blackberry  jelly  in  center  of  plate  and  sur- 
round with  the  nut  balls. 

NUTS  AND  FIG  SALAD 

Serve  well  mixed,  divided  nuts  and  figs  with  French  dress- 
ing. 

PEAS  IN  TOMATO  ASPIC 

y2  box  gelatine  y8  t  pepper 

3  C  tomato  liquor  cooked  y8  t  salt 

1  bay  leaf  2  C  green  peas,  canned  or 

1  small  stalk  celery  cooked 

1  slice  onion 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  the  tomato 
liquor  which  has  been  cooked  for  15  min.  with  a  slice  of  onion, 
the  celery,  bay-leaf  and  strain.  Stir  the  gelatine  into  the  tomato 
liquor,  strain  again  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
put  aside  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen  stir  into  it  the  peas, 
first  rinsing  them  off  in  cold  water  and  draining  them  dry.  Turn 
into  small  cups  rinsed  out  in  cold  water  and  set  on  ice  to  form. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  a  good  dressing. 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 


PEACH  SALAD 

Cut  ripe  peaches  lengthwise  into  small  pieces.  Make  a 
dressing  as  follows: 

(6  large  peaches)  2  T  sugar 

4  T  almond  butter  %  t  salt 

1  T  cream  3  drops  lemon  juice 

Rub  almond  butter  smooth  in  cream,  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Cook  3  min.,  add  lemon  juice  and  cover  peaches.  Cream  may 
be  omitted. 

PEAR  SALAD 

1  can  pears  V±  lb.  pecans 

!/4  lb.  grapes  V2  C  mayonnaise 

Drain  juice  from  pears  and  fill  center  with  grapes  and  pe- 
cans mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Then  add  a  t.  of  mayonnaise  on 
top  of  each  pear  and  a  maraschino  cherry. 

PICNIC  SALAD 

1  lb.  dates  V2  C  grated  cheese 

2  oranges  V2  C  pecans 
%  C  orange  juice 

Stuff  dates  with  nuts  which  have  been  chopped  and  mixed 
with  cheese,  roll  in  lemon  juice.  Peel  oranges  and  cut  in  slices. 
Place  dates  on  top  of  slices  of  oranges.  Cover  all  with  French 
dressing. 

PIMENTO  SALAD 

1  C  boiling  water  1  C  pecans 

1  pkg.  gelatine  dissolved  in  %  1  small  can  pimentos 

C  cold  water  %  C  pearl  onions 

^4  C  vinegar  3  sweet  pickles 

When  cold  add  When  it  commences  to  jell  add 

5  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  1  C  of  mayonnaise 

fine  serve  with  mayonnaise  on  top. 

Teresa  L.   Comley. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  can  diced  pineapple  1  C  English  walnuts 

1  C  white  seeded  grapes  1  C  diced  celery 

Let  stand  in  pineapple  juice  30  min.,  drain,  add  3  t  lemon 
Mayonnaise  and  1  pt.  heavy  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

PORCUPINE  SALAD 

Place  i/o  of  large  sized  pear  on  lettuce  leaf,  flat  side  of  pear 
down.  Take  blanched  almonds  slice  in  thin  pieces,  and  stick 
thickly  over  the  pear.  In  small  end  of  the  pear  stick  small  piece 
or  red  pepper  or  pimento  for  tongue.  Serve  with  French  salad 
dressing  made  with  lemon  instead  of  vinegar. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


-39— 


POTATO  SALAD 

1  cucumber  6  potatoes 

2  onions  V2  lb.  English  walnuts 
2  eggs 

Hard  boil  the  eggs,  either  dice  or  slice  cucumbers,  onions, 
eggs  and  potatoes.  Chop  English  walnuts.  Mix  lightly  with 
French  Dressing. 

C.  C. 

PRUNE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  lb  prunes  V2  lb.  cheese 

Plump  some  prunes  by  letting  them  soak  for  a  time  in  hot 
water.  Remove  the  stones  and  fill  with  cream  cheese.  Serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing  with  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

C.  C. 

RADISH,  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

Equal  parts  of  radishes,  cucumbers,  celery,  watercress  and 
green  peppers.  1  T  grated  onion,  and  1  T  chives.  Slice  and  mix 
and  serve  in  lettuce  cups  with  French  dressing. 

SALMON  SALAD 

1  can  of  salmon  \t>  t  mustard 

4  eggs  1  t  salt 

2/2  small  head  cabbage  or  1  cup  nuts 

6  stalks  celery  y2  C  vinegar 
1  large  sour  pickle 

Hard  boil  eggs,  chop  nuts.  Mix  all  ingredients  together 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Can  be  used  for  bread  sandwiches. 
Vinegar  etc,  can  be  used  to  taste. 


C.  C. 


SCOTCH  WOODCOCK  SALAD 


1  C  English  Walnut  Meats 

1  T  flour 

%  C  celery 

1  C  hot  milk 

6  large  olives 

Vs  t  paprika 

Cut  fine,  and  turn  over  in  the 

1  C  cheese  cut  fine 

following  dressing: 

Y2  t  parsley,  chopped 

1  T  butter 

14  t  salt 

Put  butter  in  dish  over  hot  water.  When  melted  stir  in 
flour,  then  add  hot  milk,  paprika,  parsley  and  salt.  Stir  until 
smooth,  add  cheese.    Stir  until  dissolved. 


STUFFED  CELERY  SALAD 

Mix  cream  cheese  with  Mayonnaise  dressing,  until  paste  is 
formed.  Stir  in  chopped  nuts.  Fill  the  concave  side  of  celery 
with  the  mixture.    Serve  cold  on  lettuce  leaf. 


-40— 


r 


STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Tomatoes  Small  amount  of  onion 

1  tinfoil  of  Cream  Cheese  oil  mayonnaise 

Small  amount  of  cucumber 

Peel  tomatoes  and  put  on  ice  to  cool.  Add  to  cream  cheese 
a  little  oil  mayonnaise,  then  cucumber  and  onion  chopped  fine, 
and  stuff  into  tomatoes.  Put  oil  mayonnaise  on  top.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  M.  Murdock 

SUNFLOWER  SALAD 

Press  the  yolks  and  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs  separately 
thru  a  ricer.  Pile  the  yolks  in  the  center  of  salad  plate,  and  the 
whites  in  circle  outside  of  it.  Outside  of  egg-whites  arrange 
shredded  lettuce.    Serve  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

SUGGESTED  SALADS 

Tomatoes  stuffed  with  olives.    French  dressing. 

A  head  of  lettuce,  cut  in  quarters,  and  served  with  French 
dressing. 

Lettuce  sliced  across  the  grain  in  rings,  and  grated  cheese 
piled  on  the  mayonnaise. 

Celery  and  apples  cut  in  thin  strips.    Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Heart  of  lettuce  stuffed  with  orange  and  pear.  Cream  added 
to  Mayonnaise. 

Salmon  and  shredded  lettuce  and  hard  boiled  egg  tossed  in 
French  dressing. 

Cheese  and  cucumber  with  Mayonnaise. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD 

1  pair  sweetbreads  Mayonnaise  true 

1  cucumber,  large 

Boil  sweetbreads  30  min.,  blanch  5  min.  in  cold  running 
water,  separate  the  meat  from  the  connecting  membrane,  add 
to  a  cucumber  which  has  been  peeled  and  cubed  and  bind  to- 
gether with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 

Chopped  celery  and  peppers.  Add  cheese  and  use  cream 
dressing. 

Cucumber  and  new  onions  sliced.    French  Dressing. 

Cucumbers  on  lettuce  with  oil  and  lemon  juice. 

Apple  and  pineapple,  2  parts  apple  to  1  of  pineapple.  Serve 
with  lemon  juice. 

Cauliflower,  string  beans  and  beets. 

Lettuce,  asparagus  and  sliced  radishes. 

Grape  fruit  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  lemon  in  Fruit 
Salad. 

Lime  juice  may  be  used  on  pear  salad. 
—41— 


TOMATO  SALAD 

1  can  tomatoes  2  T  gelatine 

1  t  salt  i/4  C  water 

V2  t  paprika 

Cook  tomatoes,  salt  and  paprika  10  min.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  cold  water,  strain  the  tomato  mixture  and  add  the  mixture  to 
the  gelatine.  Pour  into  molds  and  when  cold  and  firmly  set, 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD 

1  qt.  tomatoes  %  C  lemon  juice 

3  bay  leaves  1  t  salt 

1  T  onion  chopped  fine  2  T  celery  minced 

iy2  T  sugar  2  T  gelatine 

Boil  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaf,  sugar  and  celery  10  minutes. 
Prepare  gelatine  according  to  directions  on  package.  Run  to- 
mato preparation  thru  sieve,  add  to  gelatine.  Let  cool.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  on  lettuce  leaf,  pour  in 
molds. 

WALDORF  SALAD 

i/o  C  English  walnuts  1  C  celery 

1  apple 

Cut  apple  and  celery  into  fine  long  strips.  Cut  nuts  in  half. 
Mix  with  French  Dressing.  Oranges  may  also  be  added  and  use 
a  cream  dressing. 

WALNUT  AND  ORANGE  SALAD 

Prepare  walnuts,  slice  oranges  and  mix  with  prepared 
white  grapes.    Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

WHITE  CHERRY  SALAD 

Seed  and  fill  cherries  with  cream  cheese  made  smooth  with 
a  little  pimento  thru  it.  Serve  with  Grape  Fruit  cut  in  rather 
large  pieces.  Over  this  put  a  T  of  cooked  Mayonnaise.  Also  fill 
cherries  with  nuts,  filberts,  preferred,  as  they  fill  the  space  of 
cherry  seed  nicely. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

WHITE  GRAPE  SALAD 

Peel  white  grapes,  remove  the  seeds  and  insert  small  strips 
of  pimento.  Pile  on  sliced  pineapple  with  cooked  mayonnaise 
on  top. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


-42— 


WHITE  SALAD 

2  C  celery  2  C  apples 

4  slices  pineapple  1  lb.  white  grapes 

1  t  salt 

Cut  celery  fine;  seed  and  half  grapes;  dice  apples,  drain 
pineapple  and  cut  in  small  pieces.    Mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

WILTED  LETTUCE  WITH  BACON 

%  C  vinegar  XA  lb.  bacon 

2  heads  lettuce  %  t  salt 

1  t  sugar  Vs  t  pepper 

Chop  bacon  fine.  Cut  lettuce  with  scissors  into  small  shreds. 
Fry  bacon  crisp.  Mix  fat  with  vinegar,  salt,  sugar  and  pepper. 
Have  very  hot  and  pour  over  lettuce.  Cover  dish  and  let  set 
to  steam  5  min.  Serve  hot.  The  bits  of  bacon  can  be  poured  on 
top. 


-43- 


Salad  Dressing 


Biltmore  Sauce 
Boiled  Dressing 
Cooked  Dressing 
Cooked  Dressing 
Creamed  Dressing 
Fruit  Salad  Dressing 
Fruit  Dressing 
Fruit  Dressing 
Golden  Dressing 
Hollandaise  Sauce 
Jellied  Cheese  Salad 
Pineapple  Dressing  for  Fruit 

Salad 
Roquefort  Dressing 
Russian  Salad  Dressing 
Sour  Cream  Dressing  for 
Cabbage  Salad 
Tartar  Sauce 
Tartar  Sauce 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 
Thousand  Island  Dressing 
Tomato  Salad  Dressing 


Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes 

Brooklyn  Institute 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

C.  C. 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes 

Mrs.  0.  G.  Hutchinson 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 


Mrs.  Warren  Brown 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross 

Mrs.  Spangler 


46— 


BILTMORE  SAUCE 

y2  C  Mayonnaise  2  T  Chili  Sauce 

%  C  lemon  juice  2  T  chopped  olives 

1  T  Worcestershire  Sauce  1  t  minced  pickles 

Have  plate  iced.  Into  it  squeeze  lemon  juice  and  add  other 
ingredients  beating  thoroughly. 

BOILED  DRESSING 

1  T  butter  V2  C  vinegar 

2  T  flour  1  t  mustard 
1  t  salt                                                2  t  sugar 

3  egg-yolks  Few  grains  red  pepper 
1  C  milk 

Cream  butter  and  flour,  add  condiments,  mix,  then  beaten 
yolks,  milk  and  then  add  vinegar  slowly.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
beating  constantly. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

COOKED  DRESSING 

4  eggs  y2  t  celery  seed 
1V2  T  sugar                                      %  t  mustard 

%  C  milk  1  T  flour 

y2  t  salt  2  T  butter 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  salt,  celery  seed,  and  mustard.  Add  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly  each  one  as  put  in.  Add  milk. 
Heat  vinegar  and  add  to  the  above  stirring  constantly.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  butter,  then  beat,  beat,  beat,  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Then  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  required  for  a 
salad,  take  the  above  dressing  and  mix  with  whipped  cream.  This 
if  kept  in  a  cool  place,  will  keep  for  a  week  or  more,  and  may  be 
used  on  many  different  salad  combinations. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

COOKED  DRESSING 

6  egg-yolks  %  C  water 

1  t  salt  1  t  mustard 

1  t  flour  1  T  butter 

y2  C  vinegar  1  t  sugar 

To  cold  vinegar  and  water,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  dry  in- 
gredients mixed  with  butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  until  thick, 
add  whipped  cream  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

CREAM  DRESSING 

3  T  Oil  1/4  t  salt 

1  T  lemon  juice  %  t  pepper 

i/4  t  paprika  %  of  a  cream  cheese 

Mash  cheese  with  fork,  add  French  dressing  until  it  is  a  thick 
—47— 


dressing.     Put  over  lettuce  or  tomato.     Must  be  rebeaten  if  not 
used  at  once. 

Brooklyn  Ins't. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Beat  one  egg  until  smooth,  add  one-third  cup  sugar,  one- 
third  cup  pineapple  juice,  one-third  cup  lemon  juice.  Cook  over 
hot  water  till  thick.  Add  whipped  cream  when  cool.  Use  with 
fruit  and  marshmallows. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

FRUIT  DRESSING 

2  egg-whites  *4  C  lemon  juice 

lz4  t  salt  %  C  pineapple  juice 

2  T  butter  %  C  cold  water 

i/i  C  sugar  %  C  cream  whipped 

5  T  flour 

Cook.     Add  whipped  cream,  one  C. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

FRUIT  DRESSING 

i/o  C  cream  whipped  4  T  sugar 

3  T  lemon  juice  14  t  salt 

Put  lemon  juice  in  drop  by  drop.  To  be  used  on  fruit  salad, 
composed  of  oranges,  pineapple,  grapes,  dates  and  nuts,  other 
fruits  can  be  used  as  you  like. 

C.  C. 

GOLDEN  DRESSING 

!/4  C  pineapple  juice  2  eggs 

*4  C  orange  juice  %  C  sugar 

x/±  C  lemon  juice  14  C  heavy  cream 

Heat  the  fruit  juices  in  double  boiler,  beat  eggs  light,  gradu- 
ally adding  the  sugar.  Combine  with  the  hot  juice  and  cook  like 
a  custard.  When  cold  fold  in  the  cream,  whipped  stiff.  This 
dressing  is  suitable  to  serve  with  any  fruit  salad. 

C.  C. 
HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

iy2  T  boiling  water  y2  T  olives 

2  T  butter  %  t  paprika 

%  t  salt  i  egg-yolk 

y2  T  pickles  %  t  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter  in  boiling  water  in  a  bowl.  Place  bowl  in  pan  of 
hot  water,  add  other  ingredients,  beat  constantly  with  dover  egg- 
beater.  Add  finely-chopped  pickles  and  olives.  Beat  until  thick, 
not  any  longer  as  it  will  curdle.  Cool  and  serve  with  fish,  al- 
though it  is  good  with  all  meats. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes. 


-48- 


JELLIED  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  T  gelatin  1  C  whipped  cream 

1  scant  cup  water  y±  t  salt 

y2  C  rich  grated  cheese  %  t  pepper 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  the  cold  water.  To  the  grated  cheese  add 
the  whipped  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Then  add  the  dissolved 
gelatin.  Fill  small  molds;  when  it  begins  to  congeal,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese.  Serve  in  lettuce  nests  with  cream  mayon- 
naise. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

PINEAPPLE  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD 

4  T  sugar  1  t  salt 

2  T  flour  1  egg 

Three-fourths  cup  pineapple  juice,  add  juice  of  one  lemon, 
fill  up  cup  with  water,  put  this  in  double  boiler  to  heat.  Beat  egg 
and  gradually  beat  in  dry  ingredients.  Add  warm  juice  a  little  at 
a  time,  put  back  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  smooth,  when 
cold  add  one  cup  cream,  whipped. 

Mrs.  O.  G.  Hutchinson. 

ROQUEFORT  DRESSING 

4  T  oil  It  salt 

y2  C  Roquefort  cheese 

Rub  cheese  and  oil  together  slowly  five  minutes,  add  salt  and 
pepper  if  desired. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD  DRESSING 

y2  bottle     chili  sauce  1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives 

y2  bottle  capers  (grind  olives  and  pickles) 

Y2  doz.  small  sour  pickles 

Mix  with  oil  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

SOUR  CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE  SALAD 

y2  head  cabbage  (chopped  fine)      2  t  sugar 
1  C  sour  cream  %  t  salt 

1  t  celery  seed 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

TARTAR  SAUCE 

1  T  minced  sour  pickles  1  hard  boiled  egg  (chopped) 

1  T  onions  %  t  salt 

1  T  capers  1/16  t  pepper 

1  T  parsley  1  lemon 

2  T  mayonnaise 

Wet  with  the  lemon  juice  and  mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


—49— 


TARTAR  SAUCE 

4  T  true  mayonnaise  1  T  capers 

1  t  mustard  1  T  dill  pickle 

1  t  onion  juice  1  t  sugar 

Chop  capers  very  fine.  Mince  dill  pickles  and  mix  all  ingre- 
dients with  the  mayonnaise.  Good  with  fish,  tongue,  boiled  meat 
or  asparagus. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

3  T  mayonnaise  1  T  olive  oil 

3  t  chili  sauce  1  T  cream 

3  t  tomato  catsup  1  T  chopped  sweet  pickle 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

M>  C  olive  1  t  Worcestershire  Sauce 

%  orange  y8  t  paprika 

y2  lemon  V8  t  celery  seed 

2  sprigs  of  parsley  or  chopped  celery 
1  t  onion 

Use  the  juice  only  of  the  lemon  and  orange.  Chop  parsley 
very  fine,  grate  onion,  and  put  all  in  a  bottle  or  fruit  jar.  Shake 
quickly  and  place  in  ice  chest  until  ready  to  serve;  then  shake 
again. 

TOMATO  SALAD  DRESSING 

1-3  C  mayonnaise  1-3  C  Blue  Label  Chili  Sauce 

1-3  C  whipped  cream 

Mix  thoroughly.    Is  very  good  over  head  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Spangler. 


-50- 


Soup  What  It  Is 

Foundation  for  Cream  Soups 

Suggestions  for  Soup 

Almond  Soup,  Cream  of 

Apple  Soup,  Iced 

Apricot  Puree,  Iced 

Asparagus  Puree 

Asparagus  Soup 

Black  Soup  Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 

Beef  Tea 

Bouillon 

Brown  Stock 

Cauliflower  Cream  Soup 

Celery  Cream  Soup 

Chestnut  Soup,  Cream  of 

Consomme 

Corn  and  Potato  Soup 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Croutons 

Fish  Chowder 

Frappe  Fruit  Cup 

Fruit  Soup  1 

Fruit  Soup  II 

Lima  Bean  Soup,  Cream  of  Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 

Lentil  Puree  Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Soup  Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Noodles 

Onion  Soup  Mrs.  Willard  Brooks 

Orange   Soup 

Pea  Soup 

Potato  Soup 

Rice  and  Celery  Soup,  Cream  of 

Soup  Balls 

Strawberry  Puree 

Tomato  Bisque 

Tomato  Soup,  Cream  of  C.  C. 

Tutti  Fruti  Cup 

White  Cream  Soup  Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

White  Stock  (veal) 

White  Stock   (chicken) 

Yacht  Club  Oyster  Soup 


-54- 


SOUP— WHAT  IT  IS 

Soup  is  always  started  with  cold  water. 

Stock  is  the  foundation  of  all  soups  except  those  which  have 
no  meat  in  them. 

Stock  will  keep  for  several  days,  in  winter  a  week. 

If  no  vegetables  are  used  in  making  the  stock  it  will  keep 
longer.  Many  prefer  to  add  vegetables  and  seasoning  when  mak- 
ing the  soup. 

Soups  are  served  as  appetizers. 

The  seasoning  is  the  making  of  the  soup. 

An  important  item  in  soup  making  is  slow  warming  at  first, 
and  then  a  steady,  slow  fire. 

Stock  must  be  cooled  quickly  but  not  on  ice. 

Every  particle  of  fat  must  be  removed  from  stock  for  a  clear 
soup.  This  can  be  done  easily  when  the  stock  becomes  cold,  it 
becomes  cold  and  settles  on  the  top. 

The  white  and  broken  shell  of  an  egg  can  be  used  to  clarify 
the  soup.    It  can  also  be  strained  through  a  muslin  bag. 

Soup  may  be  thickened  by  egg,  or  egg  and  cream. 

Tn  passing  vegetables  through  a  fine  sieve,  if  they  are  kept 
moistened  by  some  of  the  liquid  to  be  used  in  the  soup,  it  will  be 
easier. 

Soups  are  divided  into  2  classes : 

Stock  soup  and  soup  without  stock. 

The  divisions  are: 

White  Stock — made  from  veal  or  poultry. 

Brown  Stock — made  from  beef  marrow,  bone  and  fat. 

Bouillon — made  from  lean  beef  only. 

Consomme — made  from  beef  and  veal. 

Lamb  or  Mutton  Stock — 

Purees  and  Bisques — made  from  vegetables,  or  fish  and  milk. 

Cream  Soups  with  milk  or  cream  as  a  foundation,  and  vege- 
tables. 

Bouillon  is  used  for  luncheon  or  supper  rather  than  dinner, 
served  in  Bouillon  cups. 

Consomme  for  dinner  and  served  clear. 

Cream  soups  and  purees  are  not  served  with  a  course  dinner. 

A  stock  pot  may  be  kept  covered  and  trimmings  of  meat  and 
scraps  can  be  put  in  boiled  and  thus  keep  a  stock  always  on  hand. 
A  slightly  tainted  piece  of  meat  will  spoil  the  whole  pot. 


—55- 


The  foundation  of  all  cream  soups  is  made  from  the  follow- 
ing sauce 

4  T  flour  2  C  milk 

4  T  butter  1  t    salt 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together  and  boil,  adding  milk,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  lumps.    Add  salt  last. 

To  this  white  sauce  may  be  added  cooked  celery  strained  for 
celery  soup. 

Cooked  corn  strained  for  corn  soup. 
Cooked  potato  strained  for  potato  soup. 
Cooked  rice  strained  for  rice  soup. 
Cooked  asparagus  strained  for  asparagus  soup. 
Cooked  peas  strained  for  pea  soup. 
Cooked  beans  strained  for  bean  soup. 
Cooked  spinach  strained  for  spinach  soup. 
The  quantity  of  vegetable  and  water  should  equal  one  pint, 
added  to  the  cream  sauce. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SOUP 

Rice,  squash,  peas,  cucumber,  celery,  asparagus,  potato,  cau- 
liflower, tomato,  mushrooms,  barley,  carrots,  onion,  peanuts, 
chestnuts,  spaghetti  and  okra,  all  may  be  made  into  delicious 
cream  soups. 

Raspberry,  strawberry,  cherry,  apricot,  peach,  blackberry, 
pear,  loganberry  and  orange,  all  make  good  iced  soups  for  hot 
weather.     Lemon  juice  should  be  added  to  sweet  fruits. 

Any  vegetable  puree  may  be  made  by  taking  the  cream  sauce 
recipe  omitting,  the  flour  and  adding  the  soup  stock  to  the  desired 
vegetable. 

A  soup  bunch  consists  of  onions,  carrots,  tomatoes,  celery, 
parsnips,  cabbage  and  parsley. 

In  warm  weather  fruit  soups  and  purees  are  sometimes 
served,  instead  of  hot  soups  and  a  thick  puree. 

Parsley  and  celery  may  be  dried  to  advantage  and  used  as 
flavoring. 

Thyme,  bay  leaf,  and  onion  juice  each  add  much  to  the  dis- 
tinctive taste  of  the  soup  and  can  be  used  best  to  suit  the  taste  of 
the  user.    Cream  soups  are  fattening  and  nourishing. 

Soups  may  be  served  with  crisp  crackers,  cheese  sticks,  crou- 
tons, meat  balls,  noodles,  grated  cheese — A  T  to  each  service,  is 
good  on  soup.  Cheese  sticks  are  made  by  buttering  thin,  long 
slices  of  bread,  and  spreading  grated  cheese  on  top,  then  brown 
in  oven. 

Crackers  or  wafers  should  be  crisped  in  hot  oven  and  served 
at  once. 

Soups  are  appetizers  and  may  be  made  most  nourishing. 

The  flavoring  is  important,  often  the  soup  is  made  or  marred 
by  too  much  or  not  enough. 

—56— 


ALMOND  SOUP,  CREAM  OF 

i/4  C  rice  1  qt.  boiling  water 

V2  lb.  blanched  almonds  1  C  cold  water 

1  t  sugar  iy2  t  salt 

2  qts.  hot  milk 

Cook  rice  and  add  to  hot  milk,  cook  forty-five  minutes,  pul- 
verize almonds  adding  the  cold  water  as  they  are  mashed.  When 
the  almonds  form  a  smooth  paste  add  to  the  rice  and  milk.  Then 
add  sugar  and  salt. 

APPLE  SOUP  (ICED) 
6  apples  %  C  sugar 

Rind  14  lemon  14  t  ginger 

Slice  and  core  apples,  add  lemon  and  boil  until  tender.  Run 
through  colander,  add  flavor  and  water.  Serve  with  shaved  ice. 
Cinnamon  or  any  desired  flavor  may  be  added. 

APRICOT  PUREE  (ICED) 

1  can  apricots 

Run  through  colander  and  serve  in  sherbet  cups  iced.  Any 
sweetened  fruit  can  be  served  in  this  way. 

ASPARAGUS  PUREE 

1  C  cooked  asparagus  1  qt.  white  stock 

1  t  chopped  onion 

Run  asparagus  through  colander,  add  onion  and  stock.  Cook 
till  thick.  The  puree  is  thickened  with  the  strained  vegetable 
instead  of  flour. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

1  C  celery  1  t  salt 

1  C  asparagus  %  t  pepper 

3  C  water  1  C  cream  sauce 

Put  celery  and  asparagus  in  cold  water,  gradually  heating 
and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes,  strain  through  colander.  Re- 
heat and  add  1  C  cream  sauce,  salt,  and  pepper. 

RLACK  SOUP 

1  hock  of  veal  2  potatoes 

1  hock  of  beef  1  small  can  tomatoes 

1  onion  1  turnip 

Small  stalk  of  celery  2  carrots 

1  C  cabbage  1  t  allspice 

1  t  cloves  2  bayleaves 

Cook  on  back  of  stove,  let  simmer  all  day,  strain,  let  stand 
in  open  crock.  When  cool  take  off  grease.  Heat,  add  2  T  catsup, 
1  t  salt,  %  t  pepper,  strain  through  cheese  cloth  and  serve. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 


-57- 


BEEF  TEA 

Beef  Tea  or  essence  may  be  made  by  placing  one  pound  of 
juicy  rump  steak  (no  fat)  in  a  closely  closed  jar  in  a  moderate 
oven,  or  a  boiling  kettle  of  water  three  hours.  For  beef  tea  add 
boiling  water  to  the  juice  when  done. 

BOUILLON 

1  lb.  meat  1  piece  celery 

3  eggs  1  turnip 

%  doz.  cloves  1  onion 

1  doz.  allspice  1  carrot  (chopped  fine) 

1  doz.  peppers  1  gal.  soup  stock 

Parsley  stems 

Cut  meat  fine,  add  eggs  (shells  also),  cloves,  allspice,  pep- 
pers, celery,  turnip,  onion,  parsley,  carrot,  soup  stock.  Stir  gently 
to  keep  from  sticking,  check  back  several  times  with  cold  water, 
boil  several  hours  as  it  will  be  stronger.    Strain. 

BOUILLON 

6  lbs.  round  steak  (no  bone)  1  T  salt 

V2  onion  (large)  1  stick  cinnamon 

1  slice  of  carrot  1  T  parsley 

1  slice  turnip  2  bay  leaves 
3  cloves  1  t  sage 

2  egg-whites  2  stalks  celery 
1  t  pepper 

Remove  all  fat  from  meat.  Cut  5  lbs.  into  small  pieces,  cover 
with  water,  heat  slowly,  simmer  5  hrs.  Then  add  seasoning,  tie 
all  the  vegetables  in  cheesecloth  bag.  Simmer  2  hrs  and  cool 
quickly  but  not  on  ice.  Let  stand  12  hrs,  then  chop  fine  the  other 
1  lb.  of  meat,  put  in  soup,  beat  egg-whites,  breaking  shells  and 
adding  both  eggs  and  shells  to  the  cold  soup.  Then  set  over  fire, 
heating  slowly  and  simmer  2  hrs,  adding  salt  last,  and  strain, 
skimming  fat,  if  any. 

BROWN  STOCK 

5  lb.  shin  beef  1  T  Thyme 

%  C  diced  celery  %  bay  leaf 

V4  C  diced  turnip  Vo  doz.  cloves 

%  C  diced  onion  1  T  salt 

V2  C  diced  celery  3  qts.  cold  water 

1  T  parsley  2  T  butter 

Cube  meat,  remove  marrow,  break  bones.  Place  butter  and 
marrow  in  soup  kettle,  fry  meat  in  this;  bones  and  fat.  Over 
these  pour  the  water  and  allow  to  stand  for  1  hr.  that  the  juices 
may  be  drawn  from  the  meat.  Then  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  vegetables  and  seasonings  and  let  simmer  6  hrs.  If  a 
clear  stock  is  desired  pour  in  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  skim  the 
top.    Be  sure  to  simmer  and  not  boil. 


—58— 


CAULIFLOWER  CREAM 

1  qt.  chicken  stock  2  egg-yolks 

1  C  cooked  cauliflower  %  pt.  cream 

1  C  mushrooms 

Rub  cauliflower  through  fine  sieve,  add  to  boiling  stock. 
Season,  add  cream  and  egg  mixed  and  well  beaten.  Place  the 
mushrooms  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  and  pour  soup  over  them. 

CELERY  CREAM 

1  C  celery  2/3  t  salt 

2-3  C  milk  2  T  cream  sauce 

1  T  butter 

Cook  celery,  mash  through  sieve  and  add  to  hot  milk  and 
butter.    Add  salt  and  cream  sauce.    Cook. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP,  CREAM  OF 

2  C  mashed  chestnuts  4  T  flour 
4  T  butter  6  C  milk 
1%  t  salt 

Boil  chestnuts  ten  minutes,  then  quickly  remove  hull  and 
skin  with  sharp  thin-bladed  knife.  Mash  through  colander,  add 
to  white  sauce. 

CONSOMME 

3  lb.  round  steak  1  T  butter 
3  lb.  knuckle  of  veal  1  T  salt 
1-3  C  diced  carrots  1  t  pepper 

1-3  C  turnips  1  t  mayonnaise 

1-3  C  celery  1  t  parsley 

1-3  C  onions  6  cloves 

1  lb.  marrow  bone  2  T  marrow 

1  T  lemon  juice 

Cut  meats  into  1  inch  pieces,  take  %  lb.  of  beef,  and  brown 
in  marrow.  Put  4  qts.  cold  water  in  soup  kettle,  add  veal,  with 
marrow,  bone,  and  the  browned  steak.  Let  stand  1  hr.,  then 
gradually  heat,  and  simmer  4  hrs.,  removing  skum.  Brown  the 
vegetables  in  butter,  and  add  to  soup  other  ingredients.     Cook 

2  hrs.  more,  strain,  remove  fat,  and  clear  by  pouring  in  %  C  of 
cold  water. 

CORN  AND  POTATO  SOUP 

2  medium  potatoes  1  T  tomato 

I1/*?  C  water  1  C  corn 

V2  small  onion  1  C  milk 

1  t  salt  1  C  cream 

Slice  onion  and  cook  with  potato  in  boiling  salted  water. 
When  tender  add  tomato  and  corn  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Heat  cream  and  milk  and  vegetables  just  before  serving.    Mix. 

—59— 


CREAM  CORN  SOUP 

1  can  corn  1  t  onion 

2  C  water  3  T  butter 
2  C  milk                                            2  T  flour 

1  t  salt  1/10  t  pepper 

Cook  onion,  corn  and  water  ten  minutes,  rub  through  sieve, 
scald  milk  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together. 
Cook  five  minutes,  add  salt  and  pepper  when  done. 

CROUTONS 

Cut  bread  in  cubes,  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown  in  a  quick 
oven. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

5  lb.  fish  1  qt.  water 
%  lb.  pork  1  pt.  milk 
y2  C  onions                                         2  T  flour 

1  qt.  sliced  potato  1  t  salt 

6  crackers  %  t  pepper 

Remove  fish  bones  and  cook  the  bones  in  one  quart  water  ten 
minutes.  Cook  the  fish,  fry  the  pork,  then  add  onions  sliced, 
cover  and  cook  five  minutes,  add  flour  and  cook  five  minutes 
longer,  stirring.  Strain  on  this  the  water  in  which  the  fish  bones 
have  been  cooked  and  boil  five  minutes,  then  strain  on  the  fish 
and  potato.  Salt,  pepper  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Add  milk 
and  crackers  that  have  soaked  in  the  milk  five  minutes.  Let  it 
boil  up  once  and  serve.    Tomato  may  be  preferred  to  milk  in  this. 

FRAPPE  FRUIT  CUP 

1  pt.  pitted  cherries  1  pt.  peaches,  diced 

1  pt.  strawberries  2  oranges 

1  pt.  shredded  pineapple  4  C  sugar 

Put  all  into  saucepan,  simmer  ten  minutes,  chill  and  serve. 

FRUIT  SOUP  I 

iy2  C  strawberry  juice  2  t  lemon  juice 

iy2  C  pineapple  2  t  sugar 

V2  C  water  2  t  orange  juice 

FRUIT  SOUP  II 

4  oranges  1  lemon 

1  pt.  pineapple  y2  C  sugar 

Run  oranges  and  pineapple  through  presser,  add  lemon  juice 
and  sugar,  chill  and  serve  in  glass  cups. 


—60- 


LIMA  BEAN  SOUP,  CREAM  OF 

1  C  beans  i/2  t  salt 

1  pt.  milk  y2  t  pepper 

1  T  butter  1  t  onion  juice 

V2  T  flour 

Soak  beans  and  cook  till  soft,  and  rub  through  a  strainer, 
there  should  be  about  one  pint  of  pulp,  scaled  milk,  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  add  the  bean  pulp  and  season 
to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

LENTIL  PUREE 

y2  pt.  lentils  1  celery  heart 

1  carrot  2  T  butter 

1  onion  2  qt.  water 

3  leeks 

Wash  and  cook  lentils  well.  Put  into  sauce-pan  with  cold 
water,  carrot,  onion,  leeks  and  celery.  Set  over  slow  fire  and  add 
butter,  bring  to  boiling  point,  stir  well  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

MEAT  AND  VEGETABLE  SOUP 

4  lbs.  soup  bone  and  meat  2  T  butter 
%  C  carrots  %  bay  leaf 

1  C  potato  y2  C  rice  and  barley  mixed 

1  onion  2  qts.  water 

%  C  celery  2  t  salt 

3  T  tomatoes  1  t  pepper 
1  T  parsley 

Dice  potato,  chop  onion,  celery  and  parsley  fine.  Slice  to- 
mato, add  all  together  with  cold  water,  pour  over  soup  bone  and 
boil  forty-five  minutes,  then  place  in  fireless  cooker  and  leave 
twelve  hours  at  least.  When  done  skim  off  grease,  reheat  on 
stove,  cut  the  meat  into  small  dices,  and  serve  in  soup  bowl  with 
soup,  which  makes  a  meal  of  itself.    Serve  piping  hot. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
NOODLES 

1  egg  y2  t  salt 

%  C  flour 

Beat  egg,  add  flour  and  salt,  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Boil  in 
soup. 

ONION  SOUP 

1  Spanish  Onion  2  T  flour 

2  T  butter  1  qt.  boiling  water 
%  t  salt  5  bouillon  cubes 
V4,  t  paprika 

Wash  and  peal  onion,  cut  into  slices,  melt  butter,  add  onion 
and  salt.    Cover  and  cook  until  onion  is  tender.    Add  flour  and 


-61- 


bouillon  cubes  dissolved  in  boiling  water.    Place  crisp  croutons  in 
dish.    Pour  soup  over  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Willard  Brooks. 

ORANGE  SOUP,  ICED 

2  C  orange  juice  %  C  sugar 

1  t  corn  starch  1  C  lemon  juice 

Cook  juices,  sugar  and  corn  starch  until  clear,  place  on  ice 
and  serve  ice  cold. 

PEA  SOUP 

One  can  peas,  mashed,  added  to  one  C  milk,  2  T  cream 
sauce,  1  t  salt  and  %  t  pepper. 

POTATO  SOUP 
1  gal.  water  3  T  butter 

6  large  potatoes  1  T  flour 

1  C  rice  1  C  sweet  cream 

Chop  potatoes  and  add  to  water  and  rice.  Work  butter  and 
flour  together,  add  cream  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Boil  one 
hour. 

RICE  AND  CELERY  SOUP,  CREAM  OF 

2  T  cooked  rice  1  t  salt 
lYz  C  milk  !/2  t  pepper 

%  C  celery  2  T  cream  sauce 

Mash  and  strain  celery  (cooked),  use  rice  whole  or  mashed, 
add  2  T  cream  sauce  and  milk.    Add  salt  and  pepper.    Cook. 

SOUP  BALLS 

3  eggs  1  C  cracker  crumbs 
2  t  butter 

Beat  eggs,  melt  butter,  and  roll  together  in  cracker  crumbs, 
drop  in  soup  and  cook. 

STRAWBERRY  PUREE 

1  qt.  fresh  strawberries  %  C  water 

2  C  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Mash  the  berries  fine.  Add  sugar  and  water  and  let  stand 
three  hours.  Rub  through  sieve  and  add  lemon  juice.  Serve  in 
sherbet  glasses  with  cracked  ice. 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

1  pt.  water  14  t  cinnamon 

1  qt.  can  tomato  %  C  lemon  juice 

iy2  t  salt  1  T  butter 

1  T  sugar  3  T  flour 

1  C  cream  Y±  t  onion  juice 

Cook  the  tomato  in  the  water  and  salt,  sugar,  cinnamon,  and 
lemon  fifteen  minutes.  Run  through  colander  and  after  mixing 
butter  and  flour  add  to  this,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Add  hot 
cream  and  serve  at  once. 


62- 


TOMATO  SOUP,  CREAM  OF 

1  pt.  strained  tomatoes  2  T  butter 

1  sliced  onion  2  T  flour 

V2  bay  leaf  %  t  soda 

1  piece  of  mace  Mj  t  salt 

1  qt.  milk  %  t  pepper 

Put  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaf,  and  mace  in  sauce  pan,  cover 
and  cook  five  minutes.  Put  milk  into  a  double  boiler.  Rub  to- 
gether butter  and  flour;  add  to  milk  and  stir  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Strain  tomatoes  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  soda,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  stir,  and  while  this  is  frothing,  add  hastily 
the  thickened  milk,  stir  just  enough  to  mix  and  serve.  There  is 
not  the  slightest  danger  of  this  curdling  if  the  milk  is  added 
quickly.  This  soup  cannot  be  reheated.  If  necessary  to  keep 
warm  any  length  of  time,  keep  the  materials  in  separate  vessels, 
mixing  at  the  last  moment. 

C.  C. 

TUTTI  FRUITI  CUP 

1  C  lemon  juice  %  C  grapefruit  pulp 

1  C  orange  pulp  %  C  apples  chopped 

1  banana  1  C  sugar 
%  C  water 

Cut  orange  pulp  in  cubes,  chop  apples  fine,  cut  grape  fruit  in 
one  inch  cubes.  Slice  oranges  and  cut  each  slice  in  two.  Mix 
lightly.  Let  stand  four  hours  on  ice,  put  cracked  ice  in  sherbert 
cup  and  serve. 

WHITE  CREAM  SOUP 

3  pt.  milk  3  T  parsley 

3  T  butter  Rlade  of  mace 

3  T  flour  3  t  salt 

3  T  onions  1/3  t  pepper 

3  T  celery  1  C  cream 

3  T  carrot  4  egg-yolks 
1  bay  leaf 

Cook  vegetables  and  butter  in  stewpan  slowly  twenty  min- 
utes. Heat  milk  in  double  boiler  with  herbs  and  spices.  When 
vegetables  have  cooked  twenty  minutes  (not  browned)  add  flour 
and  stir  until  frothy,  then  gradually  add  the  hot  milk,  stirring 
constantly.  Cook  five  minutes,  then  turn  into  double  boiler  and 
cook  twenty  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  well,  add  the  cream  to  them. 
Stir  this  into  soup.  Cook  one  mniute,  stirring  constantly.  Serve 
immediately. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 


-63- 


WHITE  STOCK  (chicken) 

1  old  chicken  3  qts.  water 

3  T  rice  1  T  salt 

1  T  onion  1  t  pepper 

1  T  celery 

Cut  chicken  from  bones,  break  bones  and  add  cold  water, 
rice  which  has  been  washed  and  picked  over,  onion  minced,  cel- 
ery minced,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  for  4  hours.  This  can  be 
used  as  a  basis  for  cream  soups,  and  white  sauces. 

WHITE  STOCK  (veal) 

6  lb.  knuckle  of  veal  4  cloves 

2  lb.  skin  of  beef  (lean)  1  T  salt 

2  onions  1  t  pepper 

2  turnips  1  T  butter 

2  carrots  6  qts.  water 

Cut  the  meat  in  cubes,  crack  the  bones,  slice  the  veg.  and  add 

3  qts.  of  water,  bring  to  a  boil  slowly,  simmer  for  1  hr.,  take  off 
scum  as  it  rises.  Add  other  3  qts.  of  water,  simmer  very  slowly 
five  hrs,  strain. 

YACHT  CLUB  OYSTER  SOUP 

1  t  celery  chopped  fine 
14  t  onion  juice 
y-i  C  powdered  crackers 
1  T  butter 


Wash  oysters.  Boil  milk,  celery  and  onion  in  double  boiler 
twenty  minutes.  Then  strain,  add  butter,  crackers,  and  when 
boiling  hard  add  oysters  and  let  boil,  stirring  with  split  spoon 
until  the  edges  of  oysters  begin  to  curl.  Add  salt  and  pepper. 
Do  not  use  oyster  water. 


1 

pt. 

milk 

1 

pt. 

cream 

1 

t  salt 

%  t 

pepper 

1 

qt. 

oysters 

FISH 


Anchovy  Canapes 

Bake,  To, 

C.  C. 

Catfish,  Fried 

C.  C. 

Camp  Fish, 

C.  C. 

Codfish  Roll, 

C.  C. 

Croquettes, 

C.  C. 

Dressing  for  Fish 

Deviled  Crabs 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

Deviled  Shrimp 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 

Fish  and  Eggs, 

C.  C. 

Fried  Fish, 

C.  C 

Halibut  a  la  Flaneade 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Loaf  Fish, 

C.  C. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg, 

C.  C. 

Lobster  Chops 

Mrs.  Rebecca  Coope 

Lobster  Cocktail, 

C.  C. 

Mock  Oysters 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

OYSTERS 

Boston  Fried, 

C.  C. 

Broiled, 

C.  C. 

Creamed, 

C.  C. 

Chicken  with 

C.  C. 

Croquettes 

Mrs.  E.  Taft. 

Cutlets 

Mrs.  Geo.  Pratt. 

Deviled, 

C.  C. 

Entres, 

C.  C. 

Fried, 

C.  C. 

Fricassee,  of  Oysters, 

C.  C. 

Loaf 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Lona 

Maryland, 

C.  C. 

New  Orleans, 

C.  C. 

Panned, 

C.  C. 

Pates, 

C.  C. 

Pigs  in  Blankets 
Rabbit  and  Oysters 

C.  C. 

C.  C. 

Shell,  In, 

C.  C. 

Oyster  Soup 

C.  C. 

Pie  Fish 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Planked  Shad 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

Salmon  Cutlet 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

Salmon  with  Peas, 

C.  C. 

Salmon  Fritters, 

C.  C. 

Salmon  Loaf 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Salmon  Puff 

Mrs.  Ermie  Taft. 

Salmon  Pudding  with  Sauce 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

Salmon  Scollop 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Salmon  Souffle 

Mrs.  R.  Millison. 

Shad  Roe  Croquettes, 

C.  C. 

Tuna  Chops  with  Whipped 

Cream  Sauce 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

Molded  Tuna  or  Salmon 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

Fish  Mousse, 

C.  C. 

—68- 


A  CHAPTER  ON  FISH 

If  the  eye  of  a  fish  is  sunken  the  fish  is  stale,  also  if  the  fish 
is  flabby.  The  gills  should  be  red  and  the  scales  bright  in  a 
fresh  fish. 

Do  not  leave  fish  in  a  warm  place. 

Turn  a  lobster  on  its  back  and  straighten  out  its  tail,  if  when 
released  it  springs  back  to  its  normal  curve,  you  may  be  sure  it 
is  fresh. 

Medium  size  fish  are  the  sweetest,  salt  fish  require  much 
soaking,  if  very  salty,  soak  36  hrs.,  changing  the  water  several 
times  during  the  process. 

The  best  roes  come  from  shad.  All  roes  must  be  parboiled 
10  or  15  min.  in  boiling  salt  water  to  which  1  T  vinegar  has  been 
added,  then  let  them  cool  in  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  cook- 
ed. This  prevents  sputtering  when  cooking.  When  cool,  wipe 
dry  and  dip  in  melted  butter,  or  olive  oil,  and  boil,  or  dip  in  equal 
parts  meal  and  flour,  1  t  salt,  %  t  pepper,  and  fry  in  hot  lard; 
serve  with  lemon  and  sauce  Tartare. 

Roes  may  also  be  baked  after  parboiling.  Bake  about  20 
min.  with  equal  parts  butter  and  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
with  Maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 


TO  CLEAN  A  FISH 

Remove  the  scales  by  scraping  with  a  dull  knife  from  the  tail 
toward  the  head.  The  head  and  tail  may  be  removed  or  not. 
The  entrails  may  be  removed  by  splitting  half  way  down  the 
under  side  of  the  fish  and  removing  the  contents,  washing  good 
and  scraping,  then  salt  and  pepper  the  insides.  Mix  the  salt  and 
pepper,  2-3  salt,  1-3  pepper  before  rubbing  on  fish. 


WATER  TO  BOIL  FISH 

2  qts.  water  1  bay  leaf 

Y2  C  vinegar  1  slice  lemon 

6  cloves  1  t  salt  and  ^4  t  pepper 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

ANCHOVY  CANAPES 

6  anchovies  *4  t  salt 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  i/2  t  lemon  juice 

4  T  butter  6  croutes  of  bread 
1-32  t  cayenne 

Wash  and  bone  Anchovies.  Pound  them  to  a  paste  with 
egg-yolk,  butter  and  season.  Cut  toast  into  y±  in.  slices  round, 
dust  with  butter  and  brown  in  oven.  Spread  with  the  above  paste 
and  sprinkle  over  them  the  egg-whites  riced  fine.  Serve  in  place 
of  Oysters  at  dinner  or  luncheon,  either  hot  or  cold. 


-69— 


BAKE,  TO 

Fish  Bits  of  butter 

Salt  Bits  of  lemon 

Pepper  Bits  of  parsley 

Bone  fish  and  lay  on  tin,  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter,  lemon, 
parsley  (cut  bits  of  stem  in  pan)  dredge  with  flour,  bake  in  hot 
oven  20  or  30  min. 

CATFISH  FRIED 

Soak  in  cold  water  y2  hr.  to  draw  out  the  blood  and  any  bad 
taste,  scrape  outside  and  clean  inside,  then  mix  meal  and  flour 
equal  parts,  1  t  salt,  and  %  t  pepper,  and  dip  the  fish  into  this, 
rubbing  pepper  and  salt  inside  the  fish.  Fry  in  bacon  fat  or  lard 
with  1  T  butter — must  be  hot. 

CAMP  FISH 

Build  hot  fire  and  when  it  is  reduced  to  coals,  rub  fish  out- 
side and  inside  with  salt  and  pepper  mixed,  proportions  of  ^4  t 
of  pepper  to  1  t  of  salt,  grease  wire  toaster  and  lay  fish  on  wires 
close  together,  lay  very  close  to  coals  turning  until  done — Butter 
when  done,  serve  at  once. 

CODFISH  ROLL 

1  C  Codfish  Yg  t  pepper 

1  C  potatoes  2  eggs 

1  T  butter  4  slices  fat  pork 

Pare  and  quarter  potatoes.  Shred  soaked  codfish.  Cover 
both  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  potatoes  are  done.  Drain 
and  mash,  add  butter  and  beat  until  light.  Add  eggs  and  beat 
until  all  is  creamy.  Fry  pork,  put  fish  mixture  on  top  and  cook 
slowly  until  it  is  brown.  Turn  over  and  repeat  until  it  is  done. 
Slip  knife  under  one  side  and  turn  out  on  hot  buttered  platter. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce. 

CROQUETTES  FISH 

1  can  salmon  or  any  fish  same      1  egg 

amount  1  1-3  C  cracker  crumbs 

4  T  milk 
4  T  butter 

Mash  fish  fine.  Add  beaten  egg,  melted  butter  and  bread 
crumbs,  milk,  make  into  round  or  cone  shape  and  roll  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  in  hot  deep  lard. 

DRESSING  FOR  FISH 

1  C  bread  (or  crackers)  1  t  onion 

1-3  C  butter  1  t  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  1  t  capers 

Soup  stock  (  or  water,  warm)      1  t  pickles 
Moisten  with  soup  stock  or  warm  water. 

—70— 


DEVILED  CRABS 
1  can  crabs  1-32  t  cloves 

1  pt.  bread  crumbs  1  can  tomatoes 

2  T  butter  2  T  flour 
1  t  salt,  1-16  t  pepper 

Crabs,  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt,  red  pepper.  Put  in  shells 
or  dishes  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

DEVILED  SHRIMPS 

1  can  shrimps  %  t  salt 

2  T  butter  2  C  milk 

2  T  flour  3  hard  boiled  eggs 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  salt  and  milk,  cook  until 
smooth.  Remove  veni  from  shrimps,  break  in  small  pieces,  add 
to  the  sauce,  chop  the  eggs  add  these  and  a  T  chopped  parsley, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Season  with  paprika.  Put  mixture 
in  ramekins,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  brown. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 

FISH  AND  EGGS 
Warm  left  over  fish  in  enough  milk  to  moisten,  turn  out  on 
platter,  keep  hot,  poach  egg  and  place  on  top  of  fish.    Mix  pars- 
ley, salt  and  melted  butter,  pour  over  eggs  and  serve  hot. 

1  C  fish  IT  parsley 
i/2  C  milk  %  t  salt 

3  eggs  2  T  butter 

FRIED  FISH 

For  large  fish,  clean  and  cut  into  spuares  4  in.  square,  or 
split  down  the  back  and  fry  in  halves.    Small  fish  fry  whole. 

Have  skillet  hot,  and  enough  fat  to  cover  bottom  %  in.  deep, 
%  as  much  butter  as  lard.  Roll  fish  in  meal  and  flour  half  and 
half,  salted  and  peppered,  y±  as  much  pepper  as  salt,  and  place 
in  the  boiling  fat,  fry  on  one  side  until  brown,  then  turn  over 
and  fry  until  the  other  side  is  brown.  Serve  at  once.  Any  kind 
of  fish  may  be  fried  in  this  way. 

HALIBUT  A  LA  FLAMADE 

2  T  onion  (minced)  2  T  butter 
2  T  celery  2  T  flour 

2  T  parsley  1  pt.  tomatoes 

%  t  mace  %  t  white  pepper 

Cover  bottom  of  baking  dish  with  onion,  celery  and  parsley 
minced  fine.  Place  good  sized  piece  of  fish  on  this  after  dusting 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  brushing  with  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  Put  butter  and  flour  in  a  pan  and  mix,  add  1  pt. 
of  cooked  strained  tomatoes  and  stir  until  boiling,  add  mace 
and  white  pepper.  Stain  this  around  fish,  serve  with  boiled  po- 
tato-balls basted  with  melted  butter  and  dusted  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

—71— 


LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG 
2  lobsters  (large)  3  egg-yolks 

1  T  butter  1  C  cream 
y2  T  flour  V4  t  pepper 

y2  t  salt  %  t  ground  mace 

Cut  lobster  meat  in  large  pieces,  cut  the  claw  into  3  and 
tail  into  6,  rub  flour  into  butter,  mash  the  hard  boiled  egg-yolks 
add  the  cream  slowly  while  mashing,  add  butter  and  flour,  salt 
pepper  and  mace,  and  lastly  the  lobster.    Served  hot. 

LOBSTER  CHOPS 

2  C  boiled  lobster  or  2  cans  %  t  nutmeg 

3  T  flour  3  egg-yolks 
1  T  chopped  parsley  ^  t  salt 

1  C  cream  or  milk  %  t  cayenne 

1  T  butter 

Add  all  the  seasoning  to  the  lobster.  Put  the  cream  or  milk 
on  to  boil.  Rub  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  to  the  cream 
or  milk  when  boiling.  Now  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  cook  2  min. 
Take  from  fire  and  add  to  lobster.  Mix  well  and  turn  out  on  a 
dish  to  cool.  When  cool  form  in  chop,  roll  first  in  beaten  egg 
then  in  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling 
oil  or  dripping  until  nice  brown.  If  you  wish  put  the  end  of  a 
small  claw  in  each  chop  to  represent  the  mutton  bone.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve  with  cream  or  tartare  sauce.  One  can 
make  these  chops  the  day  before. 

TARTARE  SAUCE 
}/2  pt.  of  oil  mayonnaise  dress-      1  gherkin 
ing  1  T  of  capers 

3  olives 

Chop  all  these  fine  and  add  them  to  dressing. 

Rebecca  Cooper  Rounds. 

LOBSTER  COCKTAIL 

1  C  lobster  meat  y2  t  catsup 

2  T  Worcestershire  sauce  %  C  lemon  juice 
V2  T  tobasco  sauce                            %  t  salt 

Mix,  chill  thoroughly  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 

MOCK  OYSTERS 
1  C  cooked  and  mashed  pars-     M>  t  salt 

nips  i/8  t  pepper 

1  egg  1  t  Worcestershire  or  catsup 

4  soda  crackers  rolled  fine 

Add  liquids  and  seasoning  to  parsnips,  then  egg  and  crackers. 
Let  stand  30  minutes,  form  into  oyster-shaped  patties,  dip  in 
slightly-beaten  egg  diluted  with  a  14  C  of  water  to  each  egg,  then 
in  dry  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat — like  oysters.  Serve  with 
catsup  and  cold  slaw.  Left  over  creamed  parsnips  may  be  used 
by  omitting  the  cream  in  list  of  ingredients. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

—72— 


BOSTON  FRIED  OYSTERS 
12  large  oysters  2  C  grated  bread  crumbs 

1  egg  1  C  grated  cheese 

Wash  and  dry  oysters — dip  in  beaten  egg;  roll  in  cheese. 
Dip  again  in  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  or 
skellet  with  1  C  lard  and  *4  C  butter.  Get  platter  hot.  Cover 
the  bottom  with  good  tomato  catsup,  on  this,  place  the  oysters 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

OYSTERS  BROILED 
1  doz.  large  oysters  2  T  butter 

Use  the  largest  oysters  dipped  in  melted  butter,  and  place 
in  broiler  buttered  under  gas  flame,  or  over  clear  coals.  Turn 
and  when  done  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast,  and  lemons  cut  in 
eighths. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 
Make  rich  cream  sauce  by  formula  given,  and  drain  oysters, 
put  in  sauce  and  let  come  to  boil,  until  oysters  begin  to  curl  on 
edges.    Add  paprika  and  serve  on  toast.    Can  be  served  in  Patty 
shells. 

OYSTERS  WITH  CHICKEN 

25  oysters  %  chicken  stock 

1  chicken  (white  meat)  2  T  flour 

y-2  C  oyster  liquor  IV2  T  butter 

%  C  cream  1  t  salt 

Wash  and  drain  oysters,  cook  until  the  bills  curl,  then  chop 
fine.  Cut  white  meat  of  chicken  into  blocks,  make  a  sauce  from 
oyster  liquor,  cream  and  chicken  stock.  Melt  butter,  add  flour; 
add  liquor  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Add  chicken  and  oyster  and 
salt.  C.  C. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES 

2  eggs  (beaten)  Flour 

1%  C  milk  1  pt.  oysters 

V2  t  salt  and  pepper 

Chop  oysters,  make  thin  batter,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Drop 
in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

OYSTER  CUTLETS 
1-3  C  macaroni  y2  C  oyster  liquor 

1  pt.  oysters  14  t  red  pepper 

2%  T  butter  %  t  salt 

1-3  C  flour  1-32  t  mace  or  nutmeg 

y-z  C  milk  2  eggs 

Break  macaroni  in  small  pieces  and  boil  until  very  tender. 
Cook  oysters  in  their  own  liquor.  Drain  and  chop  fine.  Salt 
oysters  while  cooking.  Mix  all  together;  cook.  After  it  is  cool 
mold;  dip  in  crumbs,  eggs,  crumbs  and  fry.    This  will  serve  ten. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Pratt. 


-73- 


DEVILED  OYSTERS 

1  pt.  oysters  1  T  butter,  V8  t  curry 

1  t  Worcestershire  sauce  y±  t  salt 

Put  butter  in  pan,  when  melted  add  1  pt.  of  the  oyster  liquor, 
when  boiling  add  oysters  and  cook  until  plump.  Add  seasonings, 
put  in  all  cracker 'crumbs  with  butter  on  top,  and  bake  until 
brown. 

ENTREES  OF  OYSTERS 

Oyster  fritters  are  one  of  the  best  oyster  entres.  To  make 
them,  drain  2  doz  good-sized  oysters  and  chop  them  fine.  Beat  2 
eggs  light,  add  cupful  of  milk  and  cupful  and  about  seven-eights 
— a  scant  two  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Beat  this  batter  smooth,  and  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  oysters,  and  drop  the  mixture  by  table- 
spoonsful  into  smoking  hot  fat.  Cook  them  carefully  until  light 
brown. 

OYSTERS,  FRIED 

1  crt.  oysters  1  T  butter 

2  eggs  2  T  lard 
Va  C  bread  crumbs 

Wash  and  dry  oysters.  Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  crack- 
er crumbs.  Repeat  this  once,  fry  in  boiling  butter  and  lard. 
Serve  hot  at  once. 

FRICASSEE  OF  OYSTERS 

1  pt.  rich  milk  or  cream  1-16  t  mace 

2  T  flour  1-32  t  cayenne 
2  doz.  oysters  1  t  salt 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce  from  milk,  flour;  season  with 
mace,  cayenne  and  salt;  add  chopped  oysters,  cook  a  minute  or 
two  and  serve  on  toast.  C.  C. 

OYSTER  LOAF 

1  large  loaf  bread  1  pt.  cream  sauce 

1  qt.  oysters  %  t  salt 

8  strips  bacon  %  t  pepper 

2  T  butter 

Cut  crust  off  top  of  loaf  of  bread,  cut  out  all  of  the  inside  of 
loaf  making  a  square  box-like  case  of  the  crust.  Mix  the  oysters 
with  the  cream  sauce  made  by  formula  No.  1  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Break  the  inside  of  bread  into  small  crumbs  butter  and  toast 
in  oven,  until  crisp.  Put  layer  of  crumbs  in  bottom  of  loaf,  then 
layer  of  oysters  and  sauce,  with  dots  of  butter,  repeating  this  until 
the  bread  loaf  is  full,  on  top  spread  layers  of  bacon,  and  put  on 
lid  cooking  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

—74— 


MARYLAND  OYSTERS 

%  pt.  corn  meal  1  qt.  boiling  water 

1  t  salt 

Boil  half  hour,  drain  1  pt.  oysters,  stir  until  mush,  cook  10 
minutes,  pour  all  into  square  mold  wet  in  cold  water,  cut  in 
slices  and  fry. 

NEW  ORLEANS  OYSTERS 

2  T  butter  1  C  canned  tomatoes 
1  T  flour  %  t  pepper 

1  T  sliced  onion  1  T  parsley 

1  pt.  oysters  1  T  celery 

%  t  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  onion  and  cook  until  brown,  add  flour  and 
brown,  then  add  tomatoes,  when  thick  add  the  drained  oysters 
and  cook  until  the  edges  burn.    Add  salt  and  pepper. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 

Place  1  doz.  large  oysters  in  hot  pan,  greased,  on  top  of 
stove  and  turn  as  soon  as  cooked  on  one  side.  Do  not  let  brown, 
salt  and  pepper  and  butter.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

OYSTER  PATES 

Chop  a  quart  of  oysters  fine  with  a  sharp  sliver  knife.  Melt 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  the  same  amount  of  flour,  cook, 
and  then  add  a  cupful  of  rich  milk.  Season  with  red  and  black 
pepper  and  salt.  Add  the  minced  oysters  to  the  cream  sauce  and 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Have  the  pate  shells  hot,  fill  them  with 
the  oyster  mixture,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  minute  before  serv- 
ing, very  hot. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 

12  large  oysters  12  slices  of  toast 

12  strips  bacon  Mash  oysters 

Roll  each  oyster  in  slice  of  bacon  and  pin  with  wooden  tooth 
picks.  Put  in  pan  in  oven  and  bake  10  or  15  minutes.  Serve  at 
once. 

OYSTERS  AND  RABBITS  "Spanish" 

1  rabbit  1%  doz.  oysters 

2  bay  leaves  1  t  parsley,  V2  t  salt 
1  t  sage  Vs  t  mace 

1  C  cauliflower  1  C  onions 

1  C  carrots  V2  G  green  peppers 

Cook  rabbit  1%  hours  in  V/2  qt-  boiling  water  into  which 
the  bay  leaves,  sage,  parsley,  mace  and  salt  have  been  added. 
Ten  minutes  before  it  is  done  add  oysters,  when  done  put  rabbit 
and  oysters  on  large  platter,  garnishing  with  the  vegetables 
which  must  all  be  cooked  in  the  same  water.  Thicken  the  liquid 
in  pot  with  milk  and  flour  and  pour  over  all. 

—75— 


OYSTER  IN  SHELL 

Oysters  in  shell  should  be  cooked  in  hot  oven  or  in  steamer 
until  shells  open.  Always  place  the  round  shell  down  to  retain 
the  juice,  serve  melted  butter  and  lemons  with  them. 


OYSTER  SOUP 

Oyster  soup  is  a  good  luncheon  soup,  especially  satisfactory 
for  school  children.  There  are  several  ways  of  varying  it  to  make 
it  tempting. 

The  first  requisite  for  good  oyster  soup  of  any  sort  is  to 
cook  the  oysters  only  long  enough  to  make  them  plump.  Longer 
cooking  toughens  them. 

Wash  a  quart  of  oysters  and  strain  in  the  liquid  in  which  they 
came,  through  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  Then  boil  it,  skim  it,  and 
add  the  oysters  to  it.  When  the  oysters  are  fuffled  and  plump 
take  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  well  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  T  butter,  and  serve  immediately. 

Vary  this  soup  by  adding  2  T  of  chopped  celery  to  the  hot 
milk,  or  1  T  of  chopped  onion  or  parsley,  or  1  T  of  finely  grated 
cheese.  Sometimes  thicken  it  with  1  T  of  butter  and  1  T  of  flour 
rubbed  together.  Sometimes  add  a  few  oyster  crackers  when 
you  mix  the  oysters  and  hot  milk. 


FISH  PIE 

Any  good  firm  cold  fish  (boned)  covered  with  thin  white 
sauce,  place  in  baking  dish,  then  cover  all  with  layer  of  mashed 
potatoes,  dotted  with  butter,  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  (English 
Dish). 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

SHAD  PLANKED 

3  large  shad  1  t  salt 

4  T  butter  y8  t  pepper 

2  T  catsup  1  lemon  juice 

To  prepare  a  new  plank  fish  board.  Procure  a  plank  board, 
oak  is  best,  that  will  just  fit  into  the  oven,  grease  this  all  over 
with  olive  oil  and  heat  slowly  in  a  slow  oven  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  used  for  the  first  time.  When  ready  to  use,  heat  well, 
then  grease  on  the  top  side  with  the  above  mixture  of  butter, 
catsup  and  lemon,  then  after  cleaning  fish,  split  them  down  the 
back  and  lay  on  board,  with  inside  of  fish  up.  Baste  every  10 
minutes. 

Do  not  have  oven  hot  enough  to  burn  board.  Serve  on 
board  on  tray  at  table,  garnished  with  lemon  slices.  Never  wash 
your  plank  shad  board,  and  never  use  it  for  anything  but  fish, 
scrape  clean  and  brush  off  with  tissue  paper.  Then  wrap  care- 
fully in  oiled  paper,  and  brown  paper  over  this,  the  older  the 
plank  the  better  the  fish. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

—76— 


EGG  DRESSING  FOR  PLANK  SHAD 
y2  lb-  butter  4  eggs 

1/2  C  flour  1  pt.  milk 

y2  t  salt  V2  t  pepper 

Heat  butter  in  stew  pan,  stir  in  flour  until  dissolved,  then 
add  milk  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  this  the  4  eggs  which  have 
been  hard  boiled  and  chopped  very  fine.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

SALMON  CUTLETS 
1  pt.  cooked  salmon  sauce  1  t  salt 

4  T  butter  %  t  pepper 

6  T  flour  %  t  lemon  juice 

1  C  milk 

Make  sauce,  stirring  flour  in  the  butter.  Add  milk  and  sea- 
sonings. Flake  salmon,  mince,  bread  and  fry  in  hot  grease. 
Turn  on  soft  paper  and  garnish  with  lemon,  pickled  beets  or 
jelly.  Oysters,  shrimps,  lobsters  or  any  cooked  fish  may  be  sub- 
stituted. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

SALMON  CUTLETS  WITH  PEAS 
1  lb.  salmon  %  C  bread  crumbs 

1  C  cream  sauce  %  t  salt 

4  eggs  i/4  t  paprika 

Chop  salmon,  beat  3  eggs,  add  cream  sauce  and  boil  all 
together  for  5  min.  Then  mold  into  cutlets,  dip  in  beaten  egg 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  2-3  lard 
and  1-3  butter. 

SALMON  FRITTERS 

2  eggs  Pinch  salt 
Yo  C  milk  1  C  salmon 
1  t  B.  P.  1/2  C  flour 

Have  mixture  just  so  it  will  drop  from  the  spoon,  have  fat 
hot,  stir  well  together  and  drop  large  spoonfuls  into  the  fat. 
Serve  hot. 

Shredded  codfish  may  be  used  or  any  kind  of  fish  left  over. 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  can  salmon  4  T  butter 
%  C  fine  bread  crumbs  ^  t  salt 

2  eggs  (well  beaten)  1  t  poultry  seasoning 
1  t  parsley                                           %  C  milk 

Melt  butter,  cut  parsley  fine.     Remove  oil  and  cut  salmon 
fine,  add  bread  crumbs,  egg-yolks,  butter,  salt,  seasoning  and 
parsley,  egg-whites  well  whipped.     Steam  in  mold  1  hr.     Serve 
hot  or  cold.    If  eaten  hot,  serve  with  following  sauce : 
1  C  milk  2  T  butter 

1  T  corn  starch  1  t  catsup 

1  egg  y8  t  cayenne  pepper 

Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

—77— 


SALMON  PUFF 

1  lb.  can  salmon  Y2  lemon  (juice) 

3  eggs  (beaten)  V2  t  salt 

1  T  melted  butter  Vs  t  pepper 

Bake  15  min.  in  well  greased  gem  pans.    Will  serve  6. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

SALMON  PUDDING  WITH  SAUCE 

1  large  can  salmon  3  eggs 

5  T  melted  butter  V2  t  salt 

y2  C  bread  crumbs  Vs  t  pepper 

Mince  the  salmon,  save  the  liquor  for  sauce,  add  bread 
crumbs  cut  fine,  then  add  butter  and  well  beaten  eggs  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  in  a  well  buttered  mold,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
cover  and  steam  in  the  oven  for  1  hr. 

Sauce:  1  T  butter 

1  C  milk  1  egg 

iy2  T  corn  starch  V2  lemon 

Heat  milk  to  boiling,  thicken  with  cornstarch  wet  in  cold 
water.  Add  salmon  liquor  and  beaten  egg.  Cook  5  min.  then 
add  lemon  juice  and  pour  on  the  pudding  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

FISH  SCALLOP 

Use  either  Tuna  or  Salmon,  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  hard 
boiled  eggs,  cover  with  white  sauce  and  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. 


Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


SALMON  SOUFFLE 


1  lb.  can  salmon 

2  T  flour 

1  t  chopped  parsley 

1  C  milk 

1  t  salt 

3  eggs 

4  T  butter 

Break  up  the  flakes  of  salmon  fine  and  mix  with  chopped 
parsley  and  salt.  1-16  t  cayenne.  Mix  butter  with  flour  in  a 
sauce  pan  over  fire.  Have  1  C  of  milk  heated  in  another  vessel 
to  which  add  thickening  and  stir  until  smooth.  Then  pour  it  over 
the  salmon  and  add  the  beaten  egg-yolks  to  the  mixture.  At 
last  add  the  stifly  beaten  whites  lightly.  Drop  into  individual 
dishes  and  bake  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  R.  Millison. 

SHAD  ROE  CROQUETTES 

To  4  shad  roe  boiled  15  min.  in  salt  water,  and  then  drained 
and  mashed.  Allow  2  C  sauce  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Shape 
and  fry. 


—78- 


TUNA  CHOPS 

1  25  cent  Tuna  1  t  mustard 

1  y2  C  cold  rice  1  t  red  pepper 
6  egg-whites  1  t  salt 

2  eggs  1  T  lemon  jam 
1  T  parsley 

Chop  egg-yolks  coarse,  add  cold  boiled  rice  and  thick  white 
sauce,  beat  well  2  eggs  and  add  to  Tuna  and  other  ingredients. 
Mold  into  chops,  adding  cracker  crumbs  if  to  moist,  then  roll 
in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE 

Whipped  cream  makes  a  dainty  fish  sauce  appealing  to  the 
eye  and  the  palate.  Whip  the  cream,  which  should  be  cold  and 
24  hrs.  old,  to  a  thick  substance,  far  beyond  froth,  yet  not  turned 
to  butter,  remembering  that  it  doubles  in  bulk  by  this  operation. 
Add  4  drops  of  anchovy  sauce  and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

MOLDED  TUNA  OR  SALMON 

1  small  can  Tuna  %  box  gelatine 

2  eggs  V2  C  water 

%  C  celery  1  T  salad  dressing 

Mince  the  fish,  chop  the  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  salt  and  pep- 
per and  salad  dressing.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  dissolve  it.    Mix  with  fish  and  mold. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

FISH  MOUSSE 

2  T  gelatine  2  T  butter 

2  T  water  1  t  salt 

1%  t  lemon  juice  y2  t  mustard 

1  egg  14  t  paprika 

1  T  olive  oil  %  C  milk 

2  C  canned  or  fresh  fish 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  lemon  juice,  heat  milk  in 
double  boiler,  add  butter,  olive  oil,  egg  beaten  and  paprika.  Stir 
continually  with  a  split  spoon  or  egg  beater.  When  thickened 
add  gelatine,  fish  and  salt.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Serve 
cold  with  Tartar  Sauce. 


-79— 


WHAT  IS  WHAT  IN  MEAT 

Rib  1st  cut  are  best  for  roasts. 

Rib  2nd  cut  for  roasts. 

Shoulder  for  pot  roasts. 

Neck  used  for  stews,  mince  and  soup. 

Brisket  for  stews,  corning  and  braises. 

The  round  for  steak,  lean  soup  meat,  and  dried. 

Tenderloin  for  steaks. 

Porterhouse,  those  next  the  tenderloin  are  best  for  broiling. 

Sirloin  for  steak. 

Tenderloin  most  expensive. 

Porterhouse  and  sirloin  next,  round,  rib  roast  and  rump 
steak  next,  shank,  flank  and  shoulder  next.  Brisket  and  chuck 
cheapest. 

Flank  for  stews  and  curing — the  flank  steak  is  considered  by 
some  the  juciest  meat  there  is. 

Shank  for  soup — solid  meat. 

FACTS  ABOUT  COOKING  MEATS 

Meats  roasted  should  be  put  into  a  hot  oven  to  set  the  juice, 
then  cooled  down  after  15  min.  Meats  broiled  should  be  as  close 
to  the  gas  flame  or  coals  as  possible.  Meats  boiled  should  be 
plunged  in  hot  water.  Meats  should  boil  gently  to  be  tender. 
Soup  meats  should  be  put  in  cold  water  gradually  brought  to 
boil  then  simmer. 

Soaked  meat  in  vinegar  20  min.  is  said  to  make  it  tender. 

Meat  cooked  too  rapidly  becomes  tough. 

If  salt  is  put  in  flour  before  it  is  wet,  lumps  will  be  avoided 
in  mixing  batter. 

Extract  of  beef  added  to  gravy  improves  the  flavor,  %  T  to 
a  6  lb.  roast. 

The  foundation  of  most  of  the  sauces  is  either  soup  stock  or 
cream  sauce,  with  the  vegetable  or  article  added  from  which  the 
sauce  will  take  its  name. 

When  lard  becomes  stale,  try  frying  a  potato  in  it  to  sweeten 
it. 

To  keep  ham — slice  and  pack  in  glass  jar  and  cover  with 
vinegar  and  pepper,  will  keep  for  weeks. 

C.  C. 

Blanquette — A  sort  of  fricasse. 
Bouilli— Boiled  beef. 

Braise — Cooked  in  covered  stew  pan  with  vegetables  and 
flavorings. 


-82- 


Carmelon — Rolled  stuffed  meat. 

En  Casserole — Cooked  in  casserole. 

Compote — A  stew  of  pigeons  or  birds. 

Flamber — To  singe  game  or  fowl. 

Fricasse — Foul  or  meat  cut  in  pieces  in  a  white  sauce  with 
herbs. 

Pate — A  small  pie. 

Ragout — A  brown  stew  with  herbs  or  vegetables  and  mush- 
rooms. 

Salmi — Game  stewed,  which  has  been  half  roasted. 

Vabau-vent — A  rich  crust  of  puff  paste  which  is  filled  with 
stews  or  fricasses  of  meat,  chicken  or  fish. 

Piece  de  Resistance — Is  the  main  course  of  the  dinner  or  the 
dish  around  which  the  dinner  is  built. 

MEATS,  FISH  AND  GAME  AND  THEIR  RELISHES 
Porter  house  steak — Maitre  de  Hotel. 
Roast  beef — Horse  radish,  brown  gravy. 
Roast  pork — Apple  sauce. 
Roast  veal — Tomato  or  mushroom  sauce. 
Roast  mutton — Currant  jelly  or  celery  sauce. 
Roiled  Mutton — Caper  sauce. 
Roiled  chicken — Bread  sauce  or  tart  jelly. 
Roast  lamb — Mint  sauce. 

Roast  turkey — Cranberry  sauce  and  chestnut  sauce. 
Boiled  turkey — Oyster  sauce. 
Boiled  bluefish — White  cream  sauce. 
Fried  chicken — Blackberry  jelly  or  loganberry  jelly. 
Shad — Boiled  rice  and  egg  sauce. 
Compote  of  pigeons — Mushroom  sauce. 
Fresh  salmon — Green  peas,  cream  sauce. 
Roast  goose — Apple  sauce. 
Venison  or  wild  duck — Black  currant  jelly. 
Broiled  fresh  mackerel — Sauce  of  stewed  gooseberries. 
Catfish — Parsley  sauce. 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  meat.  Lemon  is  an  addition  to  all 
fish. 

C.  C. 

FOR  FRYING  PURPOSES 
1  lb.  butter  1  lb.  suet 

Clarify  butter,  fry  out  suet  and  mix. 

C.  C. 
Cover  beef  suet  with  milk,  boil  until  all  milk  is  gone,  then 
use  for  frying. 

Use  1-3  as  much  beef  suet  as  leaf  lard,  cut  in  small  chunks 
and  place  in  pan  in  oven,  and  when  all  is  rendered,  place  in  a  jar 
and  salt  and  use  the  same  as  lard. 


-83- 


MAKING  FRYING  COMPOUND 

Suet  at  the  present  time  is  10c.  a  lb.  Lard  is  28c.  From  1 
lb.  can  be  obtained  14  oz.  of  fat  at  12c.  a  lb.  To  this  can  be  added 
1  part  of  oil  to  2  parts  of  suet,  cottonseed  oil  or  corn  oil,  can  be 
used  at  21c.  a  lb.  Making  the  frying  compound  15c.  a  lb.,  or  suet 
has  harder  consistency  and  the  oil  reduces  it  to  the  consistency 
of  lard. 

1  part  beef  suet  and  2  parts  leaf  lard — pork — makes  a  fine 
frying  mixture. 

ACCIDENT  SCALLOP 

4  slices  bacon  1  T  parsley 

1  C  cold  meat  1  T  butter 

1  C  cold  potatoes  1  T  celery 

1  small  onion  1  bay  leaf 

4  slices  tomato 

Salt,  pepper,  paprika,  chop  meat  and  onion  very  fine,  dice 
cold  boiled  potato  fine,  mince  parsley  and  celery,  break  bay  leaf 
into  little  bits,  grease  bottom  of  small  baking  dish,  cover  with 
meat  then  vegetables,  adding  bits  of  butter  and  then  meat  and 
vegetables  again  until  all  is  used,  cover  this  with  the  bacon  and 
tomato,  bake  20  min. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

BACON  PUFFED 

6  large  strips  4  T  cracker  crumbs 

1  egg  4  T  butter 

1  T  water 

Beat  egg,  add  water,  cut  bacon  strips  in  two,  dip  in  crumbs 
then  in  egg  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter. 

DOUBLE  BOILED  BEEF 

In  order  to  make  tough  meat  tender,  it  is  advisable  to  put 
the  roast  in  a  double  boiler.  Have  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel 
boiling  and  when  the  inner  vessel  is  hot  put  in  the  steak  which 
has  been  well  buttered  and  salted,  this  can  safely  cook  five  or 
six  hours.  The  juices  coming  out  of  the  meat  can  be  used  to 
bake  it  with  and  make  an  excellent  brown  gravy.  Be  sure  the 
water  in  outer  boiler  does  not  boil  dry. 

TO  CORN  BEEF 

25  lb.  beef  2  lb.  salt 

1  gal.  water  94  lb.  B  sugar 

%  oz.  saltpetre  %  oz.  Saleratus 

Boil  ingredients,  skim  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold 
add  the  beef  and  put  weights  on  the  meat  to  keep  it  under  the 
brine. 

—84— 


CANULON  OF  BEEF 

2  lb.  lean  beef,  ground  2  T  melted  butter 

y2  lemon,  grated  rind  %   t  nutmeg 

1  T  chopped  parsley  ^4  t  salt 

1  egg  Vi  t  pepper 

y2  T  onion  juice 

Shape  in  loaf,  wrap  in  buttered  paper,  bake  30  min.  in  hot 
oven.  Baste  every  ten  min.  with  melted  butter.  Make  sauce  of 
the  butter  left  in  pan. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

BEEF  STEAK  BROILED 

1  t  salt  %  t  pepper 

1  lb.  porter  house 

Grease  broiler  and  have  live  coals  in  stove.  Place  meat 
over  coals  and  in  2  min.  turn  repeating  the  process  until  meat  is 
done,  salt  and  pepper,  serve  with  Maitre  de  Hotel  sauce.  If  a 
gas  stove  is  used,  turn  on  top  burner  in  oven  until  very  hot,  place 
meat  in  broiler  under  flame,  and  turn  first  one  side  and  then  the 
other  until  done.  It  is  well  to  rim  off  all  fat  in  broiling  as  it 
catches  the  flame  and  burns. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

6  lb.  rump  roast  1  t  celery 

1  lb.  salt  pork  1  slice  lemon 

2  T  lard  or  butter  2  bay  leaves 
1  T  onion  6  cloves 

1  t  carrot  6  allspice 

%  lb.  bits  of  pork  6  whole  peppers 

1  t  parsley  1  t  salt 

Select  rump  roast,  use  salt  pork  for  larding,  cut  slits  in  beef 
and  put  in  this  strips,  salt  and  pepper,  put  fat  in  the  frying  pan, 
also  slice  of  lemon,  onion,  carrot,  bits  of  pork,  parsley,  celery. 
Sear  beef,  add  bay  leaves,  cloves,  allspice,  whole  peppers.  When 
brown  put  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  with  ingredients  in  frying 
pan,  add  salt.     Boil  3  hrs. 

C.  C. 

BEEF  LOAF 

2%  lb.  round  steak  ground  y2  t  pepper 

%  lb.  fresh  pork,  ground  2  T  water 

y2  C  bread  crumbs  1  t  salt 

2  eggs  1  T  butter 

Beat  egg,  mix  altogether.  Have  oven  hot  and  after  the  loaf 
has  been  in  long  enough  to  brown  a  little,  pour  over  it  1  C  of 
boiling  water  and  add  butter  on  top.  C   G. 


—85- 


BEEF'S  HEART 

1  lb.  veal  1  t  salt 

Y2  C  dry  bread  crumbs  %  t  pepper 

It  grated  onion  1  egg 

1  t  sage  1  T  butter 

Soak  heart  in  cold  water  3  hrs.  Remove  tubes  from  inside 
and  every  particle  of  blood.  Chop  veal,  mix  well  with  all  other 
ingredients  and  stuff  into  heart,  sew  the  heart  in  a  cloth  and  put 
in  sauce  pan  with  point  down,  cover  with  boiling  water  simmer 

3  hrs.     Then  bake  1  hr.,  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney 

BEEF  HASH  FRIED 

1  lb.  cold  cooked  beef  1  T  butter 

1  C  potato  cooked  1  t  salt 

1  T  onion  1  t  pepper 

1  t  parsley  1  t  celery  chopped 

Chop  beef  very  fine,  also  potato  and  onions,  mix  all  together 
with  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  celery  and  parsley,  make  into 
small  flat  cakes  and  fry  until  brown  in  hot  grease,  equal  parts 
lard  and  butter.     This  is  also  good  baked. 

ROUND  STEAK  FRIED 

Select  tender  round  steak,  cut  in  slices  %  in.  thick  and  3  or 

4  in.  square,  chop  with  large  dull  knife  on  both  sides,  dip  in  equal 
parts  meal  and  flour,  salted  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat  1-3  butter  and 
2-3  lard.  When  quite  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  the 
other  side.  Do  not  put  in  too  much  at  once  it  cools  the  fat.  Be 
sure  the  fat  is  very  hot  all  the  time.     Make  gravy. 

FILLET  OF  BEEF 

3  lb.  beef  fillet  1  t  salt 

Yd  lb.  bacon  %  t  pepper 

Cover  beef  with  strip  of  bacon,  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  bake 
pan  covered,  without  water.  Bake  in  hot  oven  first  15  min., 
then  reduce  heat,  cook  45  min.  Serve  with  parsley  sauce  or 
Maitre  de  Hotel. 


BROILED  CHICKEN 

If  cooked  in  gas  range,  turn  on  top  burner,  have  oven  very 
hot.  Place  broiler  in  broiler  rack  after  splitting  them  down  the 
back.  Dust  flour  over  them,  salt  and  1  T  butter  to  each  half  of 
chicken,  add  1  C  water.  Do  not  place  them  on  top  of  each  other. 
Cook  25  min.  on  one  side  and  15  min.  on  the  other.  If  rather 
large  chickens  cook  longer.  Baste  often.  Serve  at  once,  on  toast, 
moisten  the  toast  with  the  sauce  in  the  pan. 


-86— 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

1  C  chicken,  white  meat  2  chopped  pimolas 

2  T  butter  2  egg-yolks 
y2  t  salt  1  C  cream 
Vi  t  pepper 

Heat  the  chicken  in  the  butter,  season,  add  the  pimolas  and 
vinegar,  cook  5  min.,  then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten  in  the  cream. 
Stir  until  the  mixture  thickens  slightly,  serve  at  once  or  it  will 
curdle.     Serve  on  small  squares  of  toast  or  in  patty  shells. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

y%  green  pepper  cut    in    small     1  t  onion  chopped  fine 
pieces 

Fry  together  in  batter  but  do  not  brown.  Stir  in  3  table- 
spoons flour.  Cook  with  %  pt.  of  rich  chicken  stock  until  frothy. 
Place  in  double  boiler  and  add  1  pt.  cream.  Salt  and  paprika. 
When  thickened  lay  in  white  meat  of  chicken  cut  in  large  slices, 

1  can  of  asparagus  tips  and  %  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  saute 
in  butter  or  1  small  can  mushrooms.  Do  not  stir  after  adding 
last  ingredients. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

4  T  butter  1  C  mushrooms  cut  in  halves 

Y2  green  pepper  chopped  fine  2  C  cooked  chicken  cut  in  strips 

2  T  flour  %  t  paprika 
y2  t  salt  Pimentos 

1  pt.  cream  or  part  cream  and 
part  stock 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing  dish,  add  the  green  pepper  and 
cook  3  or  4  min.  without  browning.  Add  the  flour  and  salt  and 
cook  till  frothy.  Then  add  cream  or  cream  and  stock,  and  stir 
till  sauce  thickens.  Add  the  mushrooms,  chicken  and  pimentos. 
Serve  on  strips  of  toast.  If  necessary  to  keep  warm  before  serv- 
ing place  in  double  boiler  for  if  allowed  to  cook  too  long,  it  will 
curdle. 

Elsie  Fitch  Buck 

—87— 


CHICKEN  A  LA  BALTIMORE 
2  spring  chickens  1  t  salt 

2  eggs  Vi  t  pepper 

V>  C  butter  1  C  dry  bread  crumbs 

Split  chicken  down  the  back,  season,  dip  into  beaten  eggs 
then  into  crumbs,  then  into  eggs  and  crumbs  again.  Lay  in  a 
well  buttered  pan,  place  the  inside  of  chicken  up,  pour  melted 
butter  over  them  and  bake  30  min.  Basting  and  turning  outside 
up  for  browning  for  the  last  10  min.  Make  cream  sauce  from 
the  drippings  and  garnish  with  strips  of  bacon  and  parsley.  Cove 
oysters  are  usually  served  with  this. 
12  ears  of  corn  3  T  flour 

4  egg-yolks  V-z  t  salt 

i/o  t  paprika 

Grate  corn  from  cob,  add  flour,  eggs,  salt  and  paprika,  mix 
well.  Have  piping  hot  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter,  dip  1  T  of 
the  batter  into  the  boiling  fat  and  brown  until  all  is  used. 

ROAST  BEEF 

Sirloin  or  rib  makes  the  best  roast.  Place  roast  covered 
with  butter  in  covered  self  basting  pan,  in  very  hot  oven,  which 
should  remain  same  temperature  15  min.,  then  lower  temperature 
and  cook  very  slowly,  allowing  10  min.  for  each  pound  of  steak 
after  the  first  15  min.  It  has  been  found  the  slower  a  roast  is 
cooked  after  the  first  15  min.  the  more  tender  it  becomes.  If  a 
self-baster  is  not  used,  4  T  butter  and  1  C  water  must  be  added, 
and  roast  must  be  basted  in  this  every  15  min. 

CHICKEN  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

Cover  1  three  lb.  chicken  with  boiling  water,  cut  as  for  fry- 
ing, boil  3  hrs.  if  tough,  or  cook  in  tireless  cooker  10  hrs.  When 
done  remove  the  chicken  from  the  liquid,  and  when  boiling  drop 
in  dumplings  made  of  biscuit  dough  recipes,  add  parsley,  celery, 
and  onion,  cover  kettle  and  boil  without  removing  lid  20  min. 
The  dumplings  should  be  flavored  well  and  not  allowed  to  touch 
each  other  when  placed  in  kettle.  The  flour  from  the  dump- 
lings will  thicken  the  liquid,  making  the  gravy,  adding  more  salt 
and  pour  all  in  large  platter  over  chicken. 

Formula : 
1  3  lb.  chicken  y2  t  onion 

1  T  chopped  parsley  1%  t  salt 

1  T  chopped  celery  i/>  t  pepper 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 

CHICKEN  AND  CORN  PIE 

1  chicken  3  T  butter 

2  C  corn  1  t  salt 

1  C  milk  Vo  t  pepper 

Cut  chicken  as  for  frying,  put  alternate  layers  of  chicken 
and  corn,  salt  and  pepper  in  buttered  dish.  Cover  with  butter, 
steam  ^  hr.  and  then  pour  over  all  1  C  sweet  milk  and 
steam  20  min.  more.  Select  tender  chicken,  steam  longer  if 
larger  chicken. 


CHICKEN  IN  CASEROLE 

Equal  parts  of  diced  cold  chicken  and  boiled  rice,  put  in 
layers.  Pour  over  it,  tomato  sauce,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
bake  until  brown. 

Tomato  sauce: 

y2  can  tomatoes  1  T  butter 

1  small  onion  2  T  flour 

1  bay  leaf 

Stew  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaf  for  10  min.  Cook  butter  and 
flour,  add  strained  tomatoes  gradually,  season  well. 

Mrs.  E.  Taft 


CHICKEN  IN  CASSEROLE 

Fry  a  2%  or  3  lb.  hen  and  make  gravy  according  to  recipe 
for  fried  chicken,  place  chicken  in  Casserole  and  pour  over  it 
the  gravy  made  with  water — rather  thin,  not  made  with  milk  as 
the  milk  may  curdle — and  cook  very  slowly  in  casserole  at  the 
lowest  temperature,  4  hrs.,  change  the  pieces  on  top  to  the  bot- 
tom occasionally.  This  is  a  good  way  to  make  tough  chicken 
tender.  Parsley  and  celery  chopped,  add  to  the  flavor,  1  t  of 
each. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 

SMOOTHERED  CHICKEN 

Cut  spring  broilers  in  half,  place  in  large  covered  bake  dish, 
in  hot  oven,  after  rolling  in  flour  which  has  been  salted  and 
peppered.  Dot  with  butter  allowing  1  T  to  each  one  half  of 
chicken,  change  the  top  pieces  to  the  bottom  of  pan  when  they 
become  brown.    Allow  30  min.  at  least  for  1  chicken. 

CHICKEN  LOAF 

1  3y2  lb.  chicken  %  C  almonds 

%  C  bread  crumbs  y2  t  salt 

1-5  t  pepper  y2  C  celery 

%  C  milk  2  eggs 

Cook  chicken  until  tender,  brind  meat,  cut  the  celery  and 
nuts,  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  adding  a  few  T  of  the 
chicken  fat  rising  on  the  broth.  Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in  a 
steam  boiler  %  hr.    This  will  serve  12  or  more  portions. 

Mrs.  Rorabaugh. 

Chicken  loaf  or  beef  loaf  is  improved  by  putting  strips  of 
bacon  in  the  bottom  and  top  of  the  pan. 


-89— 


FRIED  CHICKEN 

1  spring  chicken  2  T  milk 

1  C  fine  cracker  crumbs  Mj  C  lard 

1  C  meal  or  flour   mixed   half     y±  C  butter 

and  half  V2  t  salt 

1  egg  !/4  t  pepper 

Dress  and  singe  chicken,  cut  off  legs,  wings,  thigh,  2  breast 
neck,  back,  liver  and  gizzard,  making  in  all  12  pieces,  dip  each 
piece  in  well  beaten  egg  to  which  milk  has  been  added,  then  dip 
in  cracker  crumbs  or  bread  crumbs  or  bread  and  flour  to  which 
salt  and  pepper  have  been  added,  then  place  in  hot  lard  and  but- 
ter in  skillet,  putting  in  the  largest  pieces  first,  cover  with  lid  and 
turn  over  when  brown,  cooking  about  30  min.  Watch  careful- 
ly to  not  burn,  and  remove  to  hot  platter. 

GRAVY  FOR  FRIED  CHICKEN 
Gravy  for  fried  chicken,  allow  the  grease  to  brown  in  which 
the  chicken  was  cooked,  add  enough  browned  flour  to  thicken," 
stirring  constantly  and  then  add  boiling  water  or  hot  milk  stir- 
ring constantly  until  the  consistency  required  for  gravy.  Flour 
is  browned  by  putting  in  bake  pan  in  oven  5  min.  or  longer  if  re- 
quired a  deeper  brown.  Watch  carefully  and  stir  to  prevent 
burning  and  to  get  an  even  brown. 

CHOP  SUEY 
3  pounds  chicken,  full  weight       2  green  peppers 
1  C  Japanese  brown  sauce  1  small  onion 

1  can  mushrooms  2  t  salt 

6  large  bamboo  sprouts  2  C  chicken  stock 

1  large  or  two  small  bunches      1  t  pepper 
celery  1  T  sugar 

3  t  cornstarch 

Boil  chickens  tender,  also  celery,  onions  and  green  peppers 
separately.  Mix  dry  ingredients  with  rich  chicken  stock  in  which 
some  of  the  fat  is  retained.  To  this  add  brown  sauce.  Then  add 
chicken  and  other  ingredients.  Place  all  in  a  large  kettle  on  a 
low  burner  where  it  will  simmer  for  an  hour  or  more  before 
serving.    Serve  with  steamed  rice.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck 

CHICKEN  ROLLS 
1  chicken  1  C  stock  from  chicken 

1  C  oysters  1  t  salt 

2  t  parsley  %  t  pepper 
2  T  butter                                            1  C  cream 

2  T  flour 

Melt  butter.  Add  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  then  cream.  Stir 
until  smooth  and  well  cooked.  Then  add  parsley,  chicken  and 
oysters,  chicken  and  oysters  first  having  been  cut  into  not  too 
small  pieces.  Turn  mixture  into  shallow  pan  to  cool.  When 
thoroly  chilled  and  firm,  have  ready  good  rich  puff  paste.  Cut 
chicken  mixture  into  slices  four  by  two  inches.  Envelope  in 
the  puff  paste  and  fry  in  croquet  basket  in  deep  hot  fat,  first 
having  dipped  the  rolls  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 


-90- 


CHICKEN  PIE  CRUST 

2  C  flour  %  t  salt 

2  t  B.  P.  1  egg 

2  T  lard  1  C  milk 

Sift  together  the  flour,  B.  P.  and  salt,  cut  the  lard  thru  it 
with  a  knife,  and  moisten  with  the  milk  which  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  has  been  added.  Spread  the  mixture  over  the  top  of 
the  pan  of  chicken  meat,  and  gravy,  which  has  been  previously 
heated,  and  bake  immediately. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Stew  chicken,  remove  bones  1  C  milk 

Make  rich  gravy  of  broth  2  t  B.  P. 

Place  chicken  in  casserole  1  t  salt 

Cover  with  gravy  1  egg  well  beaten 

Place  following  crust  on  top  2  T  melted  butter 

2  C  flour 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  CROQUETTES 

2  T  butter  1  t  salt 

2  T  flour  1  C  milk 

Put  butter  in  hot  sauce  pan,  rub  in  flour  and  add  milk,  stir- 
ring constantly,  salt.  Tomato  sauce  may  be  made  by  using  to- 
mato instead  of  milk.  Drop  croquettes  in  vermicelle  crushed 
with  a  rolling  pin,  after  being  dipped  in  egg  and  fry.  Add  %  t 
onion  juice  to  each  egg. 

CORNED  BEEF  AND  CABBAGE 

Soak  beef  over  night  in  cold  water  if  very  salty.  If  not, 
wash  and  boil  30  min.,  then  in  fireless  cooker  all  day.  Place  in 
cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  boil  10  min.  in  beef  kettle  and  boil  2% 
hrs.  longer  with  beef. 

CHICKEN  WITH  VEGETABLES  IN  FIRELESS  COOKER 

Put  chicken  in  cooker  with  boiling  water,  salt,  onions,  pars- 
ley, potato,  boil  20  min.  Put  in  cooker  12  hrs.  Just  before  serv- 
ing remove  chicken  and  vegetables  and  thicken  gravy  with  4  T 
each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  pour  over  chicken,  garnish  with  cress  or  parsley. 

FORMULA 

3  lb.  chicken  8  potatoes 

3  C  boiling  water  y2  t  pepper 

1  t  salt  1  t  parsley 


small  onions 


Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 
-91— 


CHICKEN  TURBOT 

1  4-lb  chicken  3  T  flour 

1  pt.  milk  %  C  cracker  crumbs 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1-3  t  pepper 

1  t  salt  1  can  mushrooms 

1  C  celery  4  T  butter 

Cook  chicken,  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  with  scissors.  Melt 

2  t  butter  and  rub  in  the  flour.  Add  3  T  milk.  Add  the  rest  of 
the  milk:  boil  until  nicely  thickened.  Add  y2  C  chicken  broth. 
Heat  mushrooms,  stir  into  chicken.  Now  place  in  buttered  bake 
dishes  a  layer  of  chicken,  a  sprinkle  of  celery,  cream  sauce, 
cracker  and  bread  crumbs,  dotting  with  bits  of  butter  and  mak- 
ing two  layers  of  each  with  crumbs  on  top,  dotted  with  butter. 
Bake  %  hour.    This  will  serve  12. 

Mrs.  Rorabaugh. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Joint  and  cook  chicken  tender,  put  chicken  and  liquid  into 
deep  uncovered  bake  dish,  add  parsley  and  celery,  onion,  salt 
and  pepper,  have  hot  and  make  a  biscuit  dough  rolled  about  % 
in.  thick  and  cover  the  top  of  the  pie  with  this,  having  first 
sprinkle  some  flour  over  the  top  of  the  chicken  and  the  liquid 
cook  until  dough  is  done  and  brown  on  top  30  min. 

1  3-lb.  chicken  1  T  chopped  celery 

1  T  chopped  parsley  %  t  onion 

V/2  t  salt  i/o  t  pepper 

CHILI 

1-3  lb.  ground  suet  3  T  Dye's  Chili  Mixture 

1  large  onion   (ground  fine)  1  section  garlic 

3  lbs.  round  steak  (ground)  1  qt.  water 

2  medium  sized  cans  tomatoes     2  cans  medium  sized  chili 

1  T  salt  beans 

Fry  suet  quite  brown  then  add  onion  and  round  steak  and 
brown.  Add  tomatoes,  salt,  Dye's  Chili  Mixture,  garlic  and 
water.  Boil  2  hours,  then  add  kidney  beans  and  cook  1  hour 
longer. 

Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 

CROQUETTES 

Save  bills  of  war  times. 

Potato,  rice,  vegetables,  cereals,  bread,  meat,  fish,  fowl  or 
game  and  bind  together  with  an  egg — add  cracker  crumbs  for  a 
good  economical  croquette. 

CROQUETTE  MEAT 

2  T  minced  onion  1  C  grated  bread  crumbs 
2  eggs                                                     1  C  cream  sauce 

1  C  chopped  meat  of  any  kind 

Add  onion,  bread  crumbs,  meat  and  beaten  eggs  to  cream 
sauce,  mold  any  desired  shape,  and  roll  in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


-U2- 


CROQUETTES  CHICKEN 

1  pt.  white  sauce  1  t  celery  salt 

%  lb.  chicken  V2  t  salt 

1  t  fine  parsley  1  egg 

Mince  chicken,  add  to  sauce,  parsley,  salt,  and  beaten  egg, 
mold,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  1  T  water,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

The  foundation  of  all  croquettes  is  cream  sauce,  mixed  with 
meat,  fish,  fowl,  vegetables  or  cereals  and  shaped  into  round, 
pyramidial  or  cylindrical  shapes,  in  shaping  croquettes  use  1  T 
of  the  mixture,  press  into  shape  desired,  roll  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  then  into  egg  beaten,  and  again  into  crumbs,  then  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Do  not  put  too  many  croquettes  into  the  fat  at  once,  it 
will  lower  the  temperature  and  the  croquettes  will  become  grease 
soaked  and  will  not  brown — they  should  be  a  golden  brown  . 

DUCKLINGS 

Young  ducks  are  called  ducklings :  young  geese,  green  geese 
or  goslings.  An  old  goose  is  strong  and  unpalatable.  One  of 
the  choice  dishes  among  German-American  people  is  goose  stuf- 
fed with  sauerkraut.  The  sauerkraut  is  washed  thoroughly  and 
soaked  over  night  in  cold  water,  then  stuffed  into  the  goose,  the 
goose  trussed  and  cooked  slowly. 

DRIED  BEEF  CANNED 

iy2  T  butter  1  C  milk 

y2  lb.  chipped  beef  1  T  flavor 

If  beef  is  salty  boil  in  fresh  water  10  min.  Pour  off  water. 
Brown  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  minced  beef.  Dissolve  flour  in 
milk,  and  stir  into  minced  beef  and  butter.  Serve  hot  on  toast 
or  crackers. 

STUFFED  FLANK  STEAK 

2  flank  steaks  6  strips  bacon 
\x/2  C  dressing 

Have  2  flank  steaks  pounded  well  on  both  sides,  salted  and 
peppered  and  place  sauce  dressing  between  them  as  made  for 
stuffing  chicken.  Put  in  covered  bake  pan  and  cover  meat  with 
strips  of  bacon  and  bake  1  hr.  slowly  after  the  first  15  min. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

FLANK,  NEW  ORLEANS  STYLE 

Select  a  thick  flank  steak :  Have  it  scored :  Sprinkle  light- 
ly with  salt,  put  in  a  baking  pan,  cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced 
onion,  y2  t  salt  and  chile  pepper,  a  thick  layer  of  sliced  raw  po- 
tatoes, pour  over  all  */£  can  seasoned  tomatoes,  put  in  a  slow 
oven,  bake  2%  hrs.  adding  a  small  quantity  of  hot  water  from 
time  to  time.  y2  hr.  before  steak  is  done,  spread  over  the  top  a 
layer  of  cooked  rice,  put  in  the  oven  again  until  brown.  Slice 
thru  like  short  cake.  Mrs.  H.  Lassen 


-93- 


FLANK  STEAK 

Trim  off  all  fat,  rub  in  all  flour  possible;  brown  on  both 
sides  in  butter  or  nice  drippings.  Do  not  have  skillet  too  hot: 
then  pour  on  a  little  water  and  cover  and  let  cook  slowly  on  back 
of  stove  for  two  hrs.,  adding  water  so  as  to  have  nice  brown 
sauce  when  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

DUCK  AND  GOOSE  ROAST 

Turn  ducks  with  head  down  and  pour  boiling  water  over. 
Then  roll  them  in  newspaper  for  20  niin.  and  let  steam.  Then 
feathers  will  come  off  easily.  C.  C. 

To  be  prime,  ducks  must  be  fat  and  young,  lower  part  of  the 
legs  and  webbing  of  the  feet  soft,  and  the  under  bill  sufficiently 
soft  to  break  easily.  The  usual  rules  for  roasting  and  baking 
will  apply  to  ducks  and  geese.  They  contain  more  fat  than 
either  turkeys  or  chickens:  this,  melting  while  they  are  roasting 
may  be  saved  for  frying  purposes  and  used  in  place  of  butter. 
Instead  of  using  breadcrumbs  as  dressing  for  ducks  or  geese,  use 
potato.  For  a  medium  sized  duck,  allow  four  good  sized  pota- 
toes or  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes.  While  potatoes  are  hot 
add  one  C  chopped  English  walnuts,  a  t  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of 
chopped  celery  and  a  salt  spoon  of  pepper.  When  thoroughly 
mixed  put  the  dressing  into  the  duck  or  goose,  sew  up  the  vent, 
and  it  is  ready  to  roast.  The  peculiar  flavor  imparted  by  the 
celery  in  the  roasting  gives  a  tame  duck  much  the  flavor  of  a 
wild  one. 

BAKED  HAM 

Cover  ham  with  cold  water  and  simmer  gently,  just  long 
enough  to  loosen  the  skin  so  it  will  peal  off,  two  or  three  hours, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  ham  when  skinned  put  it  in  a  pan 
in  the  oven,  pour  over  it,  one  teacup  of  vinegar,  and  a  little 
water,  in  which  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Bake 
slowly  2  hours,  basting  with  the  liquid.  Then  cover  ham  all 
over  one  inch  thick  with  brown  sugar  pressed  down  firmly  and 
do  not  baste  again.  Let  it  remain  in  the  oven  one  hour  after 
covering  with  sugar,  until  it  forms  a  rich  crust  and  becomes  a 
rich  brown.  When  done  drain  the  liquor  and  put  on  a  platter 
to  cool.  Press  by  turning  another  flat  dish  on  top  with  weight. 
The  pressing  makes  it  especially  nice  and  firm  for  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 


STUFFED,  BAKED  HAM 
Boil  the  ham  ten  min.  to  the  pound. 


DRESSING 

1  pt.  bread  crumbs 
little  cream 

2  eggs  beat  up 

1  t  melted  butter 

1  t  sugar 

1  grated  nutmeg 

Saltspn. 

cinnamon 

cloves 

spice 

ginger 

mustard 

celery  salt 

Take  out  ham  and  skin,  slash  and  fill  with  the  dressing.  Rub 
the  whole  ham  with  the  white  of  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  then 
put  in  the  oven  and  bake.    Better  cold  than   hot. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes. 
BAKED  HAM 

Soak  ham  over  night  if  salty.  Boil  10  min.  to  the  lb.  Skin 
and  stick  with  cloves. 

Bast  with  1  C  B.  sugar 

%  C  vinegar  Bake  20  min.  to  lb. 

1  G  water  Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

•    FRIED  MEAT  AND  VEGETABLES 

1  C  chopped  meat-cooked  1  t  celery 

1  G  potato  1  t  onion 

1  t  parsley  %  C  bacon  chopped 

Y^  t  pepper  V2  t  salt 

Fry  all  together  10  min.,  stirring  occasionally,  then  turn  over 
the  mixture  1  C  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook  10  or  15  min. 
longer. 

FLANK  STEAK  AND  VEGETABLES 
1  flank  steak  1  turnip 

4  C  bread  crumbs  1  carrot 

1  t  salt  1  onion 

Y2  C  celery  %  t  pepper 

Wipe  steak  clean,  remove  skin  and  fat,  fry  fat,  spread  bread 
crumbs  on  steak  moistened  with  fat  fryings,  slice  vegetables  and 
lay  on  bottom  of  pan,  roll  meat  and  place  on  top  of  vegetables, 
pour  in  stock  or  water  to  cover  1  inch  of  pan,  cover  and  bake  3 
hrs.  Mrs.  Ghester  I.  Long. 

HAM  AND  NOODLES 

Cook  Noodles  15  min.,  in  salted  water,  drain,  blanch  and  re- 
treat in  white  sauce.    Place  chopped  cooked  ham  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  alternate  with  noodles,  cover  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  %  hr.  in  quick  oven. 
1  Pkg.  egg  noodles  1  C  bread  crumbs 

1  C  white  sauce  Mrs.  Black. 

MINCED  HAM  AND  EGGS 

Mince  equal  parts  of  ham  and  bread  crumbs  and  break  eggs 
over  the  top.     Bake  in  oven  until  eggs  are  set. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley 

—95— 


HAM  COUAPE'S 

1  C  ham  minced  1  t  parsley  chopped 

2  t  butter  Mix  and  spread. 

WASHINGTON  BAKED  HAM 
Soak  ham  in  cold  water  24  hrs.,  drain  and  put  in  fresh  cold 
water  and  boil  slowly  for  2  hrs.  Pour  off  the  water,  skin  the 
ham,  cover  again  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  one  more 
hr.  Again  drain  the  ham  and  pour  over  it  liquid.  Stick  cloves 
in  ham.  Cook  another  hr.,  then  cool  in  liquid,  and  drain  and 
trim  ham,  mix  spices  and  sugar  and  bread  crumbs  together  and 
place  on  top  side  of  ham  and  bake  another  two  hours — bake 
slowly. 

LIQUID 
4  quarts  cider  2  T  whole  cloves 

2  quarts  water  1  C  crumbs 

1  T  allspice  1  t  black  pepper 

1  T  cinnamon  1  C  B.  sugar 

1  T  cloves 

Liquid  can  be  saved  and  kept  in  cool  place  and  used  another 
time  by  adding  water.  Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

MEAT  CASSEROLE 

2  C  chopped  meat  1  egg 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  t  chopped  onion 

1  sprig  parsley  %  t  salt 

%  C  cracker  crumbs 

Fill  a  bowl  V2  in.  thick  with  rice,  fill  with  meat  and  steam  40 
min.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Helen  Brooks  Hall. 

LIVER  AND  BACON 
6  slices  bacon  6  pieces  liver 

y%  C  flour  and  meal 

Fry  out  bacon.  Put  to  one  side  of  pan,  dip  liver  into  flour 
and  meal  mixed  and  salted,  fry  until  nicely  brown,  serve  with 
bacon,  or  calf's  liver  and  but  %  in.  thick. 

LANCASHIRE  PIE 
1  C  cold  veal  chopped  ■       2  t  butter 

1  C  cold  potatoes  1  t  mint  leaves 

1  t  parsley  , 

Grease  bake  dish,  put  in  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  potato, 
dotting  each  layer  with  butter,  parsley  and  mint  leaves,  bake 
until  a  nice  brown  covered. 

ITALIAN  HASH 

1  lb.  round  steak  y2  t  pepper 

6  cabbage  leaves — firm  2  C  soup  stock  or 

y2  T  onion  juice  4  T  butter 

1  t  salt  2  C  water 

Chop  meat  very  fine,  add  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper, 
spread  the  mixture  inside  cabbage  leaf,  roll  and  tie  with  piece 
of  string.  Place  close  together  in  bake  dish,  cover  with  liquid, 
bake  1  hr.,  covered,  thicken  the  liquor,  and  serve  on  toast  or  with 
vegetable  garnish. 


HAM  SWEET 

3  lb.  ham  1  T  cloves 

6TB  sugar 

Cut  ham  in  3  in.  slices,  place  ham  in  casserole,  cover  each 
slice  with  sugar  and  cloves  then  cover  all  with  water  and  bake 
slowly  1  hr. 

HAM  AND  POTATOES  BAKED 

1  slice  ham  %  in.  thick  %  t  salt 

I14  C  milk  V2  t  pepper 

1  qt.  sliced  raw  potatoes 

Season  potatoes  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  po- 
tatoes in  bottom  of  casserole  or  closed  baking  dish,  then  ham, 
then  potatoes,  add  milk,  put  on  close  fitting  cover,  bake  slowly  1 
hr.     Potatoes  and  ham  should  absorb  the  milk.     Will  serve  6. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 


SAUSAGE 

5  lb.  fat  pork  15  t  salt 

10  lb.  lean  pork  5  t  sage 

1  T  parsley  sifted  fine  5  t  pepper 

Grind  pork,  add  flavoring,  mix  well  and  fry  in  %  in.  slices 
until  brown. 


SCHNITZEL  BULGARIAN 

1%  lb.  round  steak  3  T  butter 

1  large  onion  Sauce  for  kettle 

2  eggs  1  qt.  canned  tomato 
2  light  rolls  1  T  butter 

1  t  salt  1  onion 

Yo  t  paprika 

Beat  eggs,  run  meat  through  grinder  and  put  into  a  bowl  eggs 
and  two  light  rolls,  that  have  soaked  until  crust  is  soft,  add  meat, 
salt  and  pepper  and  the  chopped  onion  and  butter,  mix  all  to- 
gether and  form  into  2  rolls. 

Put  in  iron  kettle  tomatoes,  butter,  chopped  onion  and  put 
in  meat,  let  it  cook  slowly  %  hr.  covered,  then  turn  over  and  cook 
another  half  hr. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 

QUICK  LUNCH 

Trinbal  cases  or  rosettes  can  be  kept  on  hand  and  filled  with 
creamed  fish,  chipped  beef,  creamed  r±  e,  creamed  potato,  chick- 
en, seasoned  with  parsley  or  celery.  Fresh  fruit  and  iced  drink 
make  a  quick  luncn. 


97- 


PORK  LOAF 

3y2  lb.  lean  fresh  pork  %  onion,  chopped  fine 

1/2  lb.  fat  fresh  pork  2  T  butter 

6  crackers,  rolled  1  T  powdered  sweet  herbs 

1  T  salt  2  T  pickles 

1  T  paprika  3  eggs 

1  T  onion  juice  1-3  C  tomato  puree 

Chop  pork  fine,  add  crackers,  rolled  fine,  salt,  paprika,  onion 
juice,  or  onion  chopped  fine,  and  cooked  in  butter  until  yellowed 
a  little,  powdered  sweet  herbs,  fine  chopped  pickles,  capers  or 
nasturtium  seeds,  eggs  well  beaten,  and  tomato  puree.  Mix  all 
together  very  thoroughly,  the  shape  of  a  long  loaf.  Roll  into  fine 
cracker  crumbs  and  bake  about  3  hrs.  in  moderate  oven.  Baste 
occasionally  with  bacon  fat  of  the  fat  in  pan.  Use  less  of  tomato 
puree  if  the  mixture  seems  moist.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  cut  in  thin 
slices. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 

POCKET  ROAST 

A  round  or  rump  steak  cut  2  in.  It  salt 

thick  with  pocket.  ^4  t  sage 

1  C  mashed  potatoes  1  t  minced  onion 

1  C  buttered  bread  crumbs  V±  t  pepper 

Mix  and  stuff  pocket.  Sew  up  the  opening.  Bake  in  double 
roaster  1%  hr. 

Mrs.  Barnes 

MOCK  DUCK 

1  calf's  liver  1  T  flour 
4  strips  of  bacon  1   t  salt 

2  onions  %  t  pepper 

Lard  1  calf's  liver,  scald,  then  rub  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  strips  of  bacon  in  double  roaster,  liver  on  top  of  bacon,  cover 
with  ground  onions.     Bake  slowly.     This  is  fine. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

MEAT  BREAD 

Use  y2  cup  of  cold  corned  beef  minced  fine,  mixed  in  a  bis- 
cuit dough.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  15  min.  Split  and  spread  with 
butter.     Serve  in  folded  napkin. 

MEAT  GEMS 

1  C  meat  1  T  flour 

1  C  milk  2  T  butter 

2  eggs 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  mix  the  milk,  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  the  beaten  egg-yolks,  then  the  meat  and  beaten  egg- 
whites.     Bake  20  min.,  in  well  buttered  gem  tins. 

Mrs.  Barnes 


BAKED  SWEET  BREADS 

2  lb.  sweet  breads  Strips  of  bacon 

Boil  sweet  breads  until  tender,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  size 
wanted  and  wrap  each  in  strip  of  bacon,  secure  with  a  tooth  pick 
and  place  in  oven,  baking  until  brown.  When  ready,  serve  with 
button  mushrooms. 

C.  C. 

ROLLED  STUFFED  STEAK 

Round  steak  1%  thick  1  C  bread  crumb  dressing 

i/2  t  salt  2  T  butter 

%  t  pepper 

Score  and  butter  steak.  Spread  dressing  on  top  and  sea- 
son. Roll  into  loaf  and  spread  strips  of  bacon  on  top  and  bits 
of  suet  or  fat,  steam  and  cook  iy2  hr.  or  bake  45  min.  in  first  very 
hot  oven  and  then  moderate. 

SQUAB 

Squab  to  be  tender  must  be  used  before  they  begin  to  fly. 
The  dry  dressing  is  good  for  squab  and  all  small  birds.  Place 
birds  when  stuffed  in  bake  dish,  breast  down  with  1  T  butter  to 
each  bird.  When  %  done  turn  breast  side  up  and  put  strip  of 
bacon  on  each  bird,  finish  cooking  and  serve  at  once.  Place  in 
hot  oven  first  5  min.  then  medium.     Cook  30  to  45  min. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 

SPANISH  MEAT  LOAF  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

2  lb.  round  steak  2  T  parsley 

1  lb.  fresh  pork  2  eggs 

2  medium  onions  2%  T  salt 

3  green  peppers  1  T  pepper 
12  soda  crackers 

Grind  all,  mix  well,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  ground  pars- 
ley, form  into  a  loaf,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Put  loaf  in  baking 
pan,  pour  around  it  1  pt.  fresh  milk.  Bake  1374  hrs.  slowly  after 
first  quarter  hour.,  basting  often.     Will  serve  14. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

SCOUSE 

1  C  cold  roast  beef  1  t  salt 

1  onion  y2  t  pepper 

2  potatoes 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes  thin,  slice  roast  beef  and  onion  in 
baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes  then  a  layer  of  meat  then 
onions,  salt  and  pepper,  alternate  layers  until  pan  is  full.  Sprinkle 
flour  over  top  add  any  left  over  gravy  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Steel 


TURKEY  TAMALE 

1  C  corn  meal  1  C  cooked     turkey,     chopped 

1  T  butter  fine 

1  T  onion  juice  Vz  C  stoned  olives 

1    C   tomatoes  4  T  catsup 

3  T  oil  V±  t  cayenne  pepper 

M>  t  salt 

Scald  corn  meal  with  %  C  boiling  water,  add  other  ingred- 
ients in  order  given.     Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  y2  hr. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 

14  tomatoes,  medium  sized  Thick  white  sauce 

1  chicken  7  slices  bacon 

1  small  can  mushrooms 

Hallow  out  tomatoes,  do  not  peel.  Stew  chicken  until  well 
done,  remove  from  bones  and  cut  in  cubes.  To  thick  white 
sauce  add  the  chicken  and  mushrooms  and  liquid  in  which  chick- 
en was  cooked.  This  mixture  should  be  very  thick.  When  boil- 
ing hot  fill  tomatoes  with  chicken.  The  mushrooms  may  be 
omitted.  Serve  tomatoes  on  lettuce  leaf  and  top  with  a  %  slice 
of  crisp  bacon.     Bacon  grease  may  be  added  as  seasoning. 

Mrs.  Williard  Brooks 


TAMALE  PIE 

2  C  corn  meal  2  C  tomatoes 

6  C  water  1  lb.  hamburger  steak 

1  T  fat  1%  t  salt 

1  onion 

Make  a  mush  by  stirring  the  corn  meal  and  salt  into  boiling 
water.  Cook  45  min.  Brown  onion  in  fat,  add  hamburger  and 
stir  until  red  color  disappears.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  tomato. 
A  sweet  pepper  is  an  addition.  Grease  baking  dish,  put  in  layer 
of  corn  meal  mush,  add  seasoned  meat,  and  cover  with  mush. 
Bake  V2  hr.     Serves  12. 

Katherine  Lewis  Mechem 

TURKEY  GRAVY 

Use  the  fat  in  baking  pan,  set  on  stove,  when  smoking  hot, 
stir  in  2  T  flour  or  more  to  use  up  all  the  fat,  let  flour  brown, 
then  add  boiling  water,  1  qt.  or  more  salt  and  pepper  if  more  is 
desired  and  add  1  T  kitchen  bouquet. 

—100— 


STUFFING  FOR  BONED  TURKEY 

12  oz.  bread  6  eggs 

1/2  lb.  butter  1  T  herbs 

1  lb.  veal,  finely  ground  1  t  salt 
%  lb.  pork,  finely  ground 

If  a  little  too  soft,  add  cracker  meal,  this  makes  a  good  meat 
loaf.  After  turkey  is  boned  lay  in  a  thin  layer  of  dressing,  3 
rows  thin  strips  of  ham,  mushrooms,  apples,  oysters,  or  chest- 
nuts between. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 

TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN  CREAM  HASH 

Chop  cold  meat  fine,  use  a  thick  white  sauce  or  cream.  Use 
butter  and  season.  Cook  half  an  onion  in  sauce,  then  lift  it  out, 
add  chopped  meat.     Serve  on  toast  with    poached  eggs  on  top. 

Mrs.  Millison 

SWISS  ROAST 

2  lb.  round  steak  %  can  tomatoes 

2  T  butter  2  onions 

Steak  cut  in  in.  slices,  fry  5  min.  in  very  hot  butter,  then 
cover  with  tomatoes  and  onions  grated.     Simmer  2  hrs. 

SWEET  BREADS  AND  MUSHROOMS 

6  eggs  Ys  t  onion 

1  can  mushrooms  1-16  t  nutmeg 

3  lbs.  sweet  breads  2  C  white  sauce 

Hard  boil  eggs,  chop  and  mix  all  together  with  white  sauce, 
serve  in  patties  or  ramekins  or  on  toast. 

VEAL  BALLS  WITH  TOMATAO  SAUCE 

1%  lb.  neck  of  veal  14  lb.  salt  pork  or  bacon 

1  C  dry  bread  crumbs  .  2  t  salt 

I  t  grated  onion  1  t  table  sauce 

y±  t  nutmeg  1  t  poultry  seasoning 

Grind  raw  meat  and  pork,  add  bread  crumbs  and  season- 
ing mix  well  and  roll  into  8  balls.  Brown  quickly  in  a  little  hot 
drippings  or  oil,  place  in  earthenware  serving  dish.  Cover  with 
strained  tomato  sauce  and  bake  for  45  min.  Serve  in  the  casse- 
role. 

BUTTERNUT  AND  POTATO  DRESSING 

1  qt.  mashed  potato  1  t  salt 

1  qt.  fine  bread  crumbs  V2  C  cream 

1%  C  butternut  meats  1  egg 

1  t  mixed  herb  seasoning  V2  t  pepper 

All  mixed  together  used  to  stuff  turkey. 


-101 


CELERY  STUFFING 
1  C  celery  finely  cut,  with  dry  turkey  dressing. 

CHESTNUT  DRESSING 
1  C  cooked  chestnuts  split,  added  to  dry  turkey  dressing. 

DRY  TURKEY  DRESSING 

iy2  qt.  stale  bread  finely  crum-  1  t  sage 

bled  1  T  minced  celery 

2  t  salt  1  t  minced  onion 

1  t  pepper  %  C  butter 

2  t  minced  parsley 

Rub  the  butter  through  the  bread  crumbs,  add  seasoning 
mix  all  thoroughly,  and  cover  with  damp  cold  cloth  and  set  in 
cool  place  over  night.  This  dressing  flavors  the  turkey  and  in 
turn  becomes  moist  from  the  turkey  juices. 

OYSTER  DRESSING 
1  C  oysters  added  to  dry  turkey  dressing. 

TURKEY  TO  ROAST 

Wash  and  singe,  salt  the  turkey  inside  and  out  and  fill  with 
preferred  dressing.  Draw  the  thighs  close  to  the  body  and  tie 
with  twine.  Cross  the  legs  over  the  tail.  Turn  the  tips  of  the 
wings  back  and  tie  close  to  the  body.  Lay  the  fowl  breast  down 
in  baker.  Put  in  very  hot  oven  for  5  min.  then  reduce  the  heat, 
and  add  any  fat  which  may  have  been  inside  the  turkey,  or  %  C 
butter  and  1  C  water.  If  browning  too  fast,  cover  with  oiled 
paper.  Raste  every  15  min.,  turn  breast  up  to  brown  last  15  min. 
Do  not  stick  a  fork  into  the  meat,  it  prevents  the  juices  to  escape. 
8  lb.  turkey  requires  21/o  or  3  hrs.  slow  baking,  15  min.  to  each  lb. 
more.  Make  brown  gravy  of  fat.  Chopped  giblets  may  be  add- 
ed to  the  gravy  if  desired,  or  any  preferred  sauce  may  be  served. 

VEAL  CUTLETS— PAPINOTTE 

6  cutlets  %  t  pepper 

y>2  C  toasted  bread  crumbs  %  t  nutmeg 

2  T  finely  cut  parsley  %  t  salt 

1  T  finely  chopped  onion  4  slices  bacon 

Trim  cutlets — with  ground  trimmings— mix  bread  crumbs 
and  seasonings  to  make  a  dressing.  Salt  cutlets  and  put  small  pat 
of  dressing  on  each  side,  topped  with  1-3  slice  of  bacon.  Wrap 
cutlet  in  oiled  paper,  oiled  in  olive  oil.  Put  in  greased  pan  with 
square  of  butter  on  top  each  cutlet.  Rake  2  hrs.  Baste  frequent- 
ly- 

Gaby  Gouldner  Powell 

—102— 


VEAL  LOAF 

3  lb.  ground  veal  2  T  salt 

14  lb.  ground  pickled  pork  l1/^  t  pepper 

2  egg  It  sage 

6  rolled  crackers 

Mix  well  in  the  order  given.  Form  into  a  loaf,  roll  in  a  few 
cracker  crumbs.  Put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Set  the  pan  in  hot 
water.     Bake  3  hrs.,  basting  frequently. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Potts 

JELLIED  VEAL 

1  knuckle  veal  Several  whole  peppers 

Y2  G  vinegar  Several  whole  allspices 

1  medium  sized  onion  sliced  1  lemon  sliced 

2  bay  leaves  *4  t  salt 

A  good  sized  knuckle  of  veal  well  broken.  Boil  with  %  G 
vinegar  and  have  knuckle  covered  with  water  about  1%  qts. 
Add  onion,  bay  leaves,  spices.  When  meat  is  almost  done,  slice 
1  lemon  and  add  salt.  Remove  meat  and  cut  into  cubes.  Boil 
liquid  down  until  there  remains  about  IV2  pts.  Serve  with  oil 
mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 

RIBBON  VEAL 

Knuckle  of  veal,  3  or  4  lbs.  1  lemon 

7  eggs  1  t  salt 

1  small  can  pimentos  1  t  pepper 

There  will  be  approximately  2  lb.  meat,  end  of  bone  often 
discarded  may,  also,  be  used  to  advantage,  as  stock  from  bone 
fills  easily.  Boil  meat  until  tender,  remove  from  bone,  put 
through  grinder.  Put  layer  of  veal  in  mold  over  this,  sprinkle 
salt,  pepper  and  few  drops  lemon  juice,  pour  over  this  some  of 
the  stock  then  layer  of  pimentos,  then  eggs,  hard  boiled,  then 
pimentos,  then  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  other  half  of  veal. 
Pour  stock  over  all,  set  in  ice-box  to  chill.  Serve  with  oil  mayon- 
naise.    Will  serve  15  or  18  people. 

Harriet  Stanley 


WILD  DUCKS  WITH  JELLY 

Let  the  ducks  lie  in  strong  salt  water  for  several  hrs.  Wipe 
dry  and  rub  thoroughly  with  soft  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
with  a  tart  jelly  both  inside  and  out.  Place  them  in  a  casserole 
with  several  spoonsful  of  butter  and  jelly  inside  each  duck  and 
around  in  the  dish.  Add  sufficient  water  for  frequent  basting, 
cover  and  bake  slowly  for  2  hrs.,  or  until  the  birds  are  tender. 
Remove  the  ducks  to  a  hot  platter  and  thicken  the  gravy  to  use 
as  with  any  other  roast  meat. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 


-103- 


VEGETABLES  SCALLOPED  WITH  MEAT 

1  lb.  lamb,  beef  or  lean  pork  2  t  salt 

2  C  boiled  rice  2  t  grated  onion 

2  T  drippings  Vs  t  pepper 
1  C  fresh  or  canned  peas 

Wash,  boil  and  drain  the  rice  but  do  not  blanch.  Put  the 
meat  on  to  boil  in  the  rice  stock,  when  tender,  remove  and  cut 
into  thin  pieces.  Brush  a  baking  dish  with  drippings  and  put 
in  a  third  of  rice,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  then  seasonings  to  thick- 
ened stock,  pour  over  meat,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40  min. 

VEAL  STEAMED 

3  lb.  veal,  round  steak  1  egg 

1  T  water  V-2  C  bread  crumbs 

Pound  well,  then  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Beat  egg,  add 
water,  dip  meat  into  this  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  but- 
ter to  a  delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon 

SAUCE  FOR  STEAMED  VEAL 

2  T  butter  1  pt.  milk 

2  T  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  thoroughly,  add  milk,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  thick.  Place  meat  in  a  double 
boiler,  cover  with  the  sauce.     Steam  2  or  3  hr. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon 

VEAL  BIRDS 

IV2  lb.  veal  cutlets  1  t  salt 

1  C  dry  turkey  dressing  V2  t  pepper 

8  slices  bacon  3  T  butter 

Cut  cutlets  4  in.  square,  salt  and  pepper,  fill  each  with  stuff- 
ing, bring  together  in  round  shape  of  bird,  skewer  with  tooth 
picks  and  put  strips  of  bacon  on  top  of  each.  Put  in  casserole  with 
butter,  cover  and  cook  30  min.     Make  gravy  of  fat  in  casserole. 


-104— 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS,  ETC. 

Apple  Sauce — Mashed. 

Apple  Sauce — Quartered. 

Asparagus  (sauce  for). 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

Bread  Sauce 

Brown  Gravy. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Celery  Sauce. 

Chestnut  Sauce. 

Crab  Meat  Cocktail.  Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Fish  (sauce  for)  C.  C. 

Gooseberry  Sauce. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Horseradish   Sauce.  C.  C. 

Horseradish  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Maitre  D'Hotel  Sauce.  Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

Melted  Butter  Sauce. 

Mint  Jelly. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Oyster  Sauce  . 

Oyster  Cocktail  Sauce.  Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

Remolade  Sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

Tomato  Sauce.  Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 

Tuna  Sauce  for  Molded  Tuna.     Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

White  Sauce.  C.  C. 


—108— 


APPLE  SAUCE— MASHED 

6  apples  1  C  sugar 

1  pt.  water  %  lemon  rind 

Wash  and  core  apple,  cut  and  add  water.  Cook.  When 
very  soft  run  through  colander,  add  sugar  and  lemon  and  boil 

5  min.    More  water  may  be  used  or  more  sugar. 

APPLE  SAUCE— QUARTERED 

6  apples  1  C  water 

2  C  sugar 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  apples.  Pour  over  them  a  syrup 
of  sugar  and  water.  Boil  slowly  until  apples  are  soft  but  not 
broken. 

ASPARAGUS  (SAUCE  FOR) 

2  egg-yolks  %  t  nutmeg 

4  T  butter  %  t  salt 

1  T  lemon  juice  %  t  pepper 

2  T  boiling  water 

Season  hot  water,  add  egg-yolks.  Do  not  boil.  Melt  the 
butter  and  beat  all  until  creamy.    Add  lemon  juice  last. 

BEACHAMEL  SAUCE 

1  pt.  milk  %  t  minced  parsley 

3  T  butter  1  T  minced  onion 

4  T  flour  %  C  minced  celery 

1  t  salt  V2  t  pepper 

Heat  celery  and  onion,  add  to  flour  and  butter  melted  in 
sauce  pan.  Cook  slowly  and  carefully  12  min.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  parsley  when  done. 

BREAD  SAUCE 

2  C  milk  i/4  t  pepper 

1  C  grated  bread  crumbs  y2  t  onion  minced 

y2  t  salt  1  T  butter 

Boil  milk,  add  onion  and  bread  crumbs,  simmer  20  min., 
add  butter,  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

BROWN  GRAVY 

%  C  fat  in  which  beef  was  1  t  butter 

roasted  %  t  pepper 

4  T  browned  flour  1  t  salt 

Brown  fat,  stir  in  flour  and  add  1  qt.  boiling  water  stirring 
constantly.  Let  cook  5  min.  1  T  chopped  celery  improves  the 
gravy. 


-109- 


CAPER  SAUCE 

4  T  butter  XA  t  pepper 

2  T  flour  4  T  capers 

1  pt.  hot  water  1  T  lemon  juice 

1/2  t  salt  1  T  vinegar 

Melt  2  T  butter,  stir  in  flour,  add  water,  salt  and  pepper, 
stir  constantly.  Add  remainder  of  butter,  lemon  juice,  vinegar 
and  capers. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

Add  minced  celery  to  cream  or  White  Sauce. 

CHESTNUT  SAUCE 

!/2  t  catsup  4  T  browned  butter 

1  pt.  chestnuts  1  qt.  water 

1  T  flour  1  t  celery  salt 

V'i  t  pepper  1  t  salt 

Shell,  scald  and  remove  chestnut  skins.  Break  in  halves 
and  cook  in  salted  water.  Mash  fine  in  the  cooking  water,  mix 
the  flour  with  the  melted  butter  and  add  to  mashed  chestnuts. 
Add  pepper,  celery  salt  and  catsup. 

DRESSING  CRAB  MEAT  COCKTAIL 

1-3  pt.  oil  mayonnaise  1  T  chopped  chow  chow 

3  T  Heinz  chili  sauce  1  t  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  pinch  chopped  tarragon,  parsley,  and  shallots.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

i/4  C  butter  1  C  boiling  water 

V4  t  salt  2  T  flour 

Vs  t  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  mixed  with  seasonings,  and 
stir  well.  Pour  on  water  1-3  at  a  time,  stirring  until  well  mixed. 
Do  not  scorch  or  burn. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH 

2M>  oz.  butter  3  eggs 

3  T  flour  y2  lemon  (juice) 

1  pt.  white  broth  or  stock 

Melt  2  ozs.  butter  in  saucepan  on  slow  fire,  add  flour.  Stir 
well,  do  not  let  it  brown,  moisten  with  white  broth,  beat  con- 
stantly, cook  10  min. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  mix,  pour  sauce  over  eggs 
a  little  at  a  time,  then  strain.  Add  remainder  of  butter,  and 
lemon  juice. 

C.  C. 


—no- 


GOOSEBERRY  SAUCE 

%  pt.  gooseberries  %  pt.  stock 

1  T  sugar  1  t  butter 

%  t  parsley 

Cook  berries,  run  through  colander.    Put  in  pan,  add  sugar 
and  butter;  boil,  add  stock  and  parsley  minced  fine. 


HOLLAND AISE  SAUCE 

%  C  butter  1  T  lemon  juice 

2  egg-yolks  %  t  salt 

^4  t  pepper  1-3  C  boiling  water 

Beat  egg-yolks,  add  lemon  juice  and  1-3  of  butter.  Set  pan 
in  hot  water  and  stir  until  butter  melts.  Then  add  another  1-3 
of  butter  beating  while  adding.  When  this  melts,  add  remain- 
der of  butter,  then  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  1 
min.,  add  salt  and  serve  hot. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE  FOR  MEAT  COURSE 

%  C  grated  horseradish  Little  minced  parsley 

4  T  vinegar  %  t  salt 

1  pt.  stiffly  whipped  cream  1-16  t  white  pepper 

Let  horseradish  stand  in  vinegar  over  night,  squeeze  through 
cheese  cloth  then  add  stiffly  whipped  cream,  a  little  minced 
parsley,  salt  and  white  pepper. 

C.  C. 

HORSERADISH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 
Add  4  T  grated  horseradish  to  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

1  lemon  (juice)  2  egg-yolks 

1  C  melted  butter  1  T  parsley 

Add  butter  to  lemon,  simmer.  Beat  until  thick,  add  egg 
yolks  stiffly  beaten  and  serve  at  once. 

MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE 

4  T  butter  1  T  parsley 

V2  t  salt  1  T  lemon  juice 

1-32  t  pepper 

Cream  butter,  add  salt,  pepper  and  parsley  chopped  very 
fine.  Add  lemon  juice  very  slowly.  Cool.  Fine  for  hot  broiled 
porterhouse. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


-Ill- 


MELTED  BUTTER  SAUCE 

2  egg-yolks  V2  t  salt 

1-3  lb.  butter  V±  t  pepper 

Put  x/4  of  butter  in  hot  saucepan,  season,  add  eggs  and  stir 
until  eggs  begin  to  thicken.  Take  pan  off  fire  and  add  other  *4 
butter.  When  mixed  set  on  fire  again  and  mix,  then  remove 
once  more  repeating  the  process  until  butter  is  used.  Pour  into 
dish  and  add  ^  t  lemon  or  14  t  vinegar  tarragon. 

MINT  JELLY 

1  C  vinegar  V±  t  salt— paprika 

1  C  sugar 

1  t  gelatine  pressed  down  in  cup 

Boil  vinegar  and  sugar  5  min.  after  it  starts  to  boil,  soften 
geiatine  in  cold  water,  stir  into  vinegar,  add  salt,  mint  and  pap- 
rika. Put  in  bowl,  set  on  ice  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  then  put  in 
mold  on  ice. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

MINT  SAUCE 

V2  C  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  %  C  mint  leaves,  chopped  fine 

1  t  sugar 

Combine  acid,  mint  and  sugar.    Serve  cold  over  lamb. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

'  t  lb.  mushrooms  1  t  lemon  juice 

2  T  butter  V2  t  salt 
1  C  milk  gravy  or  stock 

Slice  mushrooms,  cook  in  the  butter  until  brown,  add  flour, 
gravy  or  stock  and  lemon  juice.    Add  salt. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

1  pt.  cream  sauce  1  t  celery  seed 

y2  pt.  mushrooms 

Chop  mushrooms,  warm  and  add  to  hot  cream  sauce  and 
celery  seed. 

OYSTER  SAUCE 

1  pt.  cream  sauce  1  C  oysters 

1  T  butter  1  T  celery 

Add  chopped  oysters  to  hot  sauce,  butter  and  finely  minced 
celery. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

6  T  catsup  y2  juice  of  lemon 

2  T  grated  horseradish  %  t  salt 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


-112- 


REMONLADE  SAUCE 

3  egg-yolks  V2  t  mustard 
2  T  oil                                                  y2  t  salt 

1  T  vinegar  1  t  minced  parsley 

Rub  hard  boiled  eggs  into  oil,  vinegar,  mustard,  salt  and 
parsley.    Set  on  ice.    Serve  with  meat  or  fish. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

35  tomatoes  4  C  vinegar 

8  large  onions  20  T  B.  sugar 

4  red  peppers  .  5  t  salt 

Chop  all  of  above  and  cook  until  tender,  and  then  add  vine- 
gar, sugar,  salt — cook  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 


TOMATO  SAUCE 

y2  can  tomatoes  1  small  onion 

1  green  pepper  4  T  butter 

3  T  flour  %  C  water 

Cook  tomatoes,  then  strain,  add  pepper  and  onion  ground. 
Cook  8  min.  Put  flour  in  hot  pan  with  butter.  Stir,  add  tomato 
mixture  and  water.    Boil  2  min. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

1  pt.  tomatoes  1  bay  leaf 

1  T  flour  1  sprig  parsley 

3  level  t  butter  1  blade  of  mace 

1  small  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Put  tomatoes  on  the  fire  with  the  onion,  bay  leaf,  parsley,  and 
mace.  Simmer  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the 
flour  and  mix  smooth.  Press  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  add 
the  butter  and  flour,  stir  constantly  until  it  boils.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Serve  with  chops,  fillet  or  broil- 
ed steak. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 

%  can  tomatoes  1  spray  parsley 

1  bay  leaf  1  stalk  celery 

Cook  10  min.,  remove  and  press  through  seive,  then  add  1  t 
melted  butter. 

1  T  flour  Vs  t  pepper 

1  t  salt  Serve  hot 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


-113- 


SAUCE  FOR  MOLDED  TUNA  OR  SALMON 

1   T  chopped  parsley  1    C  salad   dressing 

1  T  chopped  olives  1   t  chopped  onion 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

1  T  butter  V2  t  salt 

3  T  flour  1  C  milk 

Melt  the  butter  and  stir  in  the  flour.     Then  gradually  add 
the  milk.  C.  C. 


-114- 


VEGETABLES 


\pple,  Tomato,  Sweet  Potato 

Artichokes 

Asparagus 

Asparagus,  French 

Asparagus  and  Peas 

Bananas,  Baked 
Bananas,  Creamed 
Bananas,  Fried 
Banana  Fritters 
Beans,  Baked 
Beans,  Baked 
Bean  Barebit,  Baked 
Bean  Polenta 
Beets,  Boiled 
Boquet  of  Sweet  Herbs 
Brussel  Sprouts 
Bryn  Mawr  Corn  Cake 

Canned  Vegetables 
Carrots 
Cauliflower 
Celery  au  gratin 
Celery  Curled 
Celery  Scalloped 
Chestnuts,  Casseroled 
Corn,  Boiled  on  Ear 
Corn,  Boiled  in  Milk 
Corn    and    Cheese 
Corn  Chowder 
Corn  Croquettes 
Corn  Fritters 
Corn,  Nantucket 
Corn  Pudding 
Corn  Pudding 
Corn  Pudding 
Cucumbers 

Egg  Plant,  Fried 
Egg  Plant,  Stuffed 
Egg  Plant,  Diced 

Green  Peppers  with  Asparagus 

Tips 
Green  Peppers,  Stuffed 

Halibut  Potato 


Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


Mrs.  Balph  Millison. 


Mrs.  Charles  Cohn. 


Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  Balph  Millison. 
Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 


Mrs.  A.  O.  Borabaugh. 
Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 


Mrs.  Cohn. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 


-Hi 


Hominy  and  Cheese 
Hominy  Croquettes 
Italian  Vegetables 

Lettice  Roll 
Lima  Beans 

Macaroni  Loaf 
Macaroni  Spanish 
Mushrooms  and  Asparagus 
Mushrooms  and  Tomato 
Mushroom  Test 

Onion  Juice 

Onions  and  Potatoes,  Fried 

Onions,  Stuffed 

Parsnip  Croquettes 
Parsnip  Fritters- 
Peas  (Washington) 
Pecans  and  Celery 
Potato  Balls 
Potato  Balls,  Curried 
Potato  Balls  in  Parsley 
Potato  Eggs 
Potato  with  Cheese 
Potato,  Creamed  with  Cheese 
Potato  and  Corn 
Pineapple  and  Sweet  Potato 
Delmonico  Potatoes 
Duchess  Potatoes 
Escalloped  Potatoes 
French  Fried  Potatoes 
King's  Potatoes 
Marble  Potatoes 
Potato  Nests 
New  Potatoes 
Parsley  New  Potatoes 
Potato  Puffs 
Souffled  Potatoes 
Popcorn  Balls 
Radishes,  Fried 

Spaghetti,  Plain  Boiled 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese 

Spaghetti  and  Tomato 

Spinach 

Spinach,  Stuffed 

Squash,  Summer 

Succotash 

Succotash 

Suggestions  for  Vegetables 

Sweet  Corn 

Sweet  Potato 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

Sweet  Potato,  Georgia 


Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


Mrs.  English. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 


Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 
Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 


-119- 


Sweet  Potato  with  Marsh- 
mallow  Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 

Sweet  Potato  and  Nut 

Croquettes  Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 

Sweet  Potato,  Stuffed 

Tomatoes,  Baked  and  Stuffed 
Tomatoes,  Mexican 
Tomatoes,  Green,  Fried 
Tomatoes,  Scalloped 
Tomatoes,  Stuffed 
Vegetable  Cutlets 
Wartime  Hash 


-120- 


SUGGESTION  FOR  VEGETABLES 

Meat  supplies  mainly  protein.  Peas,  beans,  and  lentils  take 
the  place  of  meat  in  supplying  protein.  Nuts  are  meat  sub- 
stitutes but  should  be  thoroughly  chewed  until  perfectly  creamy. 

Combinations  of  vegetables  to  bake:  Peas  and  asparagus, 
peas  and  mint— a  sprig  of  mint  added  to  peas  when  cooking, 
peas  and  potatoes,  peas  and  celery,  peas  and  rice,  potatoes  and 
celery. 

Maitre  D'Hotel  sauce  is  good  on  potato  balls  as  well  as  on 
meat. 

Peeling  Tomatoes — Hold  the  tomato  with  long  fork  over  gas 
flame  a  few  seconds.  The  heat  bursts  the  skin  which  will  then 
come  off  easily. 

Canned  beans,  peas  and  asparagus  should  be  rinsed  before 
serving.  This  takes  away  the  can  taste.  Serve  with  14  lb.  butter 
melted  to  each  qt.  of  hot  vegetable. 

Pimentos  can  be  fried  in  butter. 


FOR  BREADED  DISHES 

Beat  14  t  B.  P.  into  egg  before  dipping  things  to  be  fried  into 
it.  This  makes  the  egg  thicker  and  more  foamy  and  holds  more 
crumbs.  Also  put  14  t  B.  P.  into  flour  and  meal  before  dipping 
chicken  into  it  for  frying. 

Instead  of  taking  a  tonic  in  the  spring  for  spring  lassitude, 
the  best  of  all  tonics  is  to  be  found  in  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables 
— spinach,  lettuce  and  dandelion. 

A  well  beaten  white  of  egg  added  to  mashed  potatoes,  whip- 
ping the  potatoes  hard  before  serving,  will  add  to  the  looks  and 
taste  of  the  dish. 

If  a  vegetable  or  cereal  burns  plunge  the  vessel  containing 
the  burned  mass  into  cold  water  and  allow  it  to  remain  for  a 
few  minutes  before  pouring  the  contents  into  another  pan.  This 
will  do  away  almost  entirely  with  the  burned  taste  which  is  so 
disagreeable. 

To  preserve  the  color  of  green  vegetables,  put  them  to  cook 
in  boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda  or  keep  the  cover  off  the 
kettle  while  boiling  them. 

If  potatoes  are  boiled  in  salted  water  for  10  minutes,  then 
put  into  the  oven  they  will  bake  more  quickly.  The  boiling 
water  will  heat  them  through  more  rapidly  than  if  they  were 
placed  in  the  oven  cold. 

Vegetables  may  be  rendered  crisp  by  standing  in  ice  water 
with  a  t  of  lemon  juice  added. 

Always  cook  vegetables  grown  above  the  ground  in  salted 
water,  those  which  grow  beneath  the  surface  in  fresh  water. 

Onions,  squash,  turnips,  beets,  carrots,  parsnips,  cabbage, 
potato,  keep  in  sand  in  cool  place. 

Beets  plunged  in  cold  water  after  boiling,  makes  the  skins 
easily  removable. 


121 


APPLE,  TOMATO,  SWEET  POTATO 

Slice  tomato  across,  core  and  slice  apples  across,  sweet  po- 
tatoes partly  cooked,  slice  the  same  thickness. 

Put  a  slice  of  tomato  in  bake  pan,  then  a  slice  of  sweet  po- 
tato, lastly  the  apple;  hold  together  with  a  tooth  pick  and  pour 
over  it  a  syrup  of  cooked  sugar  and  water.  Bake  in  the  oven 
until  apple  is  soft  and  baked. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

ARTICHOKES 

Peel  and  wash  artichokes.  Boil  until  tender  and  serve  with 
cream  or  tartar  sauce,  picking  the  leaf  from  the  choke  with  the 
finger  and  dipping  in  the  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS 

Immerse  bunches  in  boiling  water  leaving  tips  out  of  water. 
Boil  20  min.,  drain  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  or  cream  sauce. 
Salt. 

ASPARAGUS,  FRENCH 

3  bundles  of  asparagus  %  t  salt 

3  small  onions  3  egg-yolks 

Boil  asparagus  20  min.,  mince  the  tender  parts  with  onion, 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  until  hot  and  pour 
over  toast. 

ASPARAGUS  AND  PEAS 

6  bunches  asparagus  2  T  butter 

2  C  peas  1  t  salt 

Cook  asparagus  and  peas  separately.  When  done  and  hot 
serve  peas  on  asparagus.  Salt,  and  pour  over  both  melted  but- 
ter. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

6  bananas  y2  lemon 

6  t  butter 

Slice  bananas  and  place  in  earthenware  dish,  cover  with 
butter  and  squeeze  1  drop  of  lemon  juice  on  each  slice.  Bake 
25  min. 

BANANAS  CREAMED 

2  C  whipped  cream  5  eggs 

1  C  bananas  %  C  sugar 

Whip  cream,  beat  egg  together,  chop  fine  bananas,  stir 
fruit  and  cream  together  lightly,  add  eggs  and  sugar.  Butter 
ramekins  and  fill  y2  full  of  mixture  and  bake  until  puffed  and 
light  brown.  Serve  at  once  or  they  will  fall  when  cool.  Cin- 
namon may  be  sprinkled  on  top. 


-122— 


BANANAS  FRIED 
6  bananas  1  T  powdered  sugar 

2  T  butter 

Peel  and  split  the  fruit.  Put  butter  in  pan,  add  fruit  and 
when  brown  on  both  sides  place  on  platter  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.     Serve  very  hot. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS,  PORTLAND,  MAINE 
2  qt.  small  navy  beans  Salt,  pepper 

y2  lb.  salt  pork  2  T  New  Orleans  molasses 

Hot  water 

Put  beans  to  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  20  min. 
Plunge  into  cold  water.  Rinse  and  place  alternately  in  bean 
pot  with  salt  pork  which  has  been  cut  into  slices  %  in.  thick. 
Salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Last  use  the  mo- 
lasses on  top.  Bake  in  a  covered  earthen  bean  pot  for  10  hours, 
replenishing  water  when  needed  with  water  brought  to  the  boil- 
ing point.    Then  your  beans  will  not  break  in  cooking. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

.  EXCELLENT  BAKED  BEANS 
One  and  one-half  lbs.  of  beans  soaked  over  night.  Next 
morning  add  %  t  soda  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  off,  then  boil 
in  clear  water  a  few  min.  Place  a  layer  of  beans  in  a  bean  pot, 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  sprinkle  of  mustard,  3  slices  of  onion, 
medium  size,  2  slices  of  salt  pork  (you  use  %  lb.  of  salt  pork  for 
the  1%  lbs.  of  beans)  then  another  layer  of  beans,  etc.,  until  the 
top  layer,  then  add  to  this  3  iron  spoonfuls  of  molasses.  Cover 
well  with  water  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  all  day. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 

BANANA  FRITTERS 

1  T  lemon  juice  1  T  sugar 

6  bananas  1%  C  flour 

2  eggs  1  t  B.  P. 

1  T  butter 

Mash  bananas,  beat  eggs,  melt  butter,  add  B.  P.  to  flour  and 
mix  all  together.  Have  deep  fat  boiling  and  drop  this  mixture 
into  it  by  the  spoonful,  not  putting  enough  in  at  one  time  to  cool 
the  fat. 

BAKED  BEANS 

2  C  navy  beans  %  t  pepper 
!/£  lb.  salt  pork                                 1  t  mustard 
6  T  brown  sugar  14  lb.  butter 
V2  t  salt 

Pick  over  and  thoroughly  wash  the  beans,  cover  with  water 
and  soak  over  night  with  y8  t  soda.  Cook  until  skins  begin  to 
break  then  drain  off  the  water,  saving  enough  of  this  to  cover 
beans  in  the  baking  pan.  Put  beans  in  baking  pan  with  all  the 
above  ingredients  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  4  hrs. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

—123— 


BAKED  BEAN  BAREBIT 

2  T  butter  Y2  C  hot  milk 

i/o   t  salt  1  C  soft  cheese 

14  t  paprika  1  T  Worcestershire  Sauce 

1   C  cold  baked  beans 

Put  butter  in  saucepan,  add  salt  and  paprika,  then  the  beans 
which  have  been  put  through  a  vegetable  press.  Heat  thorough- 
ly and  then  stir  in  the  hot  milk,  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
cheese  chipped  fine  and  the  Worcestershire  Sauce.  Continue 
to  stir  until  cheese  melts,  then  pour  over  thin  slices  of  soft  toast 
and  serve  quickly. 

BEAN  POLENTA 

1  pt.  common  white  or  brown     1  T  vinegar 

neans  1  T  olive  oil  or  melted  butter 

2  T  molasses  %  t  pepper 
1  t  salt  Cayenne 

1  t  mustard 

Pick  over,  wash  and  soak  the  beans  overnight.  In  the  morn- 
ing put  them  in  2  qts.  cold  water  and  boil  them  slowly  until  soft 
and  mealy,  about  3  hrs.  Add  2  T  molasses,  salt,  mustard,  olive 
oil  or  melted  butter,  pepper,  cayenne  and  vinegar,  stir  and  cook 
for  10  min.     The  beans  should  be  quite  dry  when  done. 

BOILED  BEETS 

Beets  must  not  be  cut  down  too  closely  or  they  bleed  and  be- 
come pale  and  lose  flavor.     Boil  until  tender  2  or  3  hrs.     Rub 
off  skins  while  hot  and  serve  with  melted  butter  and  sugar,  or 
sliced  in  vinegar  and  sugar. 
6  beets  1  t  sugar 

2  T  butter 

BOUQUET  OF  SWEET  HERBS 

Tie  together  4  sprigs  of  parsley,  4  bay  leaves,  4  sprigs  of 
thyme,  4  leaves  of  sage.     Dry  and  use  for  soups  or  stew. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Lay  sprouts  15  min.  in  salted  water.  Drain  well  and  cook 
in  plenty  of  boiling  water  20  min.  Drain  colander  and  serve 
with  Bechamel  or  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

BRYN  MAWR  CORN  CAKE 

1  pt.  grated  corn  2  eggs 

y-2  C  flour  1  T  melted  butter 

14  C  milk  •        1  t  salt 

Beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  the  yolks  to 
the  corn,  then  the  milk,  flour,  butter,  and  the  salt.  Beat  well, 
then  fold  in  lightly  the  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
bake  in  a  hot  and  well  greased  griddle. 


-124— 


CANNED  VEGETABLES 

Canned  vegetables  can  be  served  by  emptying  the  conlcmc 
of  can,  using  the  liquid  or  not.  If  liquid  is  used,  heat  vegetable 
in  liquid,  add  1  T  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  To  beets  add  1  T 
sugar.  If  the  liquid  is  not  used,  use  %  C  cream  to  a  can,  salt, 
pepper  and  1  T  butter  or  use  cream  sauce.  All  these  must  be 
served  hot.  Never  let  canned  goods  stand  in  the  can,  empty  as 
soon  as  opened  and  cover. 

CARROTS 

Peel  and  boil  2  hrs.     Mash. 

Or,  peel  and  boil  and  cut  in  cubes  and  serve  with  sweetened 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Or,  peel  and  prepare  as  above  and  bake  in  covered  dish  with 
milk. 

Carrots  may  be  creamed  with  peas. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Trim  off  outside  leaves  and  lay  blossoms  down  in  cold  salt- 
ed water  20  min.  Shake  in  water  causing  insects  to  drop  out. 
Tie  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
gently  30  min.  Drain  and  serve  with  cream  sauce  or  Holland- 
aise  Sauce  or  with  melted  butter  poured  over  while  hot.  Serve 
hot. 

CELERY  AU  GRATIN 

3  C  diced  celery  %  C  grated  cheese 

1%  C  white  sauce  %  C  dry  bread  crumbs 

Boil  celery  until  tender  in  salted  water  allowing  it  to  cook 
dry.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  celery,  then  one 
of  white  sauce,  alternating  till  all  is  used.  Cover  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  cheese  and  bake  20  min.  in  moderate  oven. 

CELERY  CURLED 

Cut  stalks  of  white  thick  celery  into  2  in.  lengths.  With  a 
sharp  knife  make  parallel  cuts  on  each  end  then  cut  at  right 
angles.  Throw  into  a  pan  of  ice  water  for  a  couple  of  hours  to 
curl.    Drain,  shake  dry  and  arrange  on  a  low  dish. 

CELERY  SCALLOPED 

2  bunches  celery  3  T  butter 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1  C  grated  cream  cheese 

1  C  milk 

Cut  celery  in  small  pieces  and  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter  and  flour.  Butter  a  bak- 
ing pan,  put  in  a  layer  of  celery,  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of 
the  cheese.  Repeat  until  the  pan  is  filled  and  on  top  and  last 
a  layer  of  cheese,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  %  hr. 

Mrs."  Ralph  Millison 


-125- 


CHESTNUTS  CASSEROLED 

3  C  chestnuts  3  C  chicken  stock 

2  T  butter  1%  T  flour 

Shell  chestnuts,  put  in  casserole  and  pour  over  it  chicken 
stock.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  3  hrs.  Then  thicken  with  flour 
and  butter  cooked  together.     Serve  in  casserole. 

CORN  BOILED  ON  EAR 

Strip  down  the  husks  of  the  corn,  and  test  its  freshness  by 
pressing  the  thumb  nail  in  one  or  two  of  the  kernels.  If  the  milk 
flows  freely  the  corn  is  in  good  condition.  Strip  off  the  outer 
husks  leaving  the  tender  inside  ones  on,  but  turning  them  back. 
Remove  every  thread  of  silk,  rubbing  it  off  with  the  hands. 
Now  turn  the  inner  husks  back,  tie  with  an  outside  husk  and 
place  in  a  kettle.  Cover  the  corn  over  with  a  layer  of  the  out- 
side husks  then  pour  on  cold  water  to  the  depth  of  the  corn. 
Put  on  the  kettle  lid  and  set  over  a  quick  fire.  Watch  care- 
fully and  when  the  water  has  boiled  five  minutes  from  the  time 
it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  it  is  done.  Serve  at  once  leaving 
the  inside  husks  on,^  or  not,  as  preferred.  Boiling  water  may 
be  used  in  the  place  of  the  cold  and  the  corn  boiled  exactly  8 
min.  from  the  time  the  boiling  point  is  reached,  but  it  will  not 
be  quite  so  delicious  as  with  the  cold  water  process. 

CORN  BOILED  IN  MILK 

Husk  the  corn  and  drop  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  just 
5  min.  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Keep  covered  closely 
while  cooking,  and  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

CORN  AND  CHEESE 

1  C  samp  (coarsely  ground     or     1  qt.  water 
cracked   corn)  1*4  t  salt 

Boil  the  samp  in  the  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
combine  with  the  following  sauce: 

1  C  skim  milk  2  T  flour 

1  C  finely  cut  cheese  1  t  salt 

%  t  mustard  Paprika 

Mix  the  seasonings  with  the  dry  flour.  Add  enough  milk 
to  form  into  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
and  heat  in  a  stewpan,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Add 
the  cheese  and  stir  until  it  is  thoroughly  melted.  Put  a  layer 
of  the  boiled  samp  in  a  baking  dish  or  casserole.  Add  a  layer 
of  sauce  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  material  is  all  used. 
Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  layer  of  sauce  and  cook 
in  a  medium  oven  until  the  crumbs  brown. 


-126— 


CORN  CHOWDER 

%  lb.  fat  salt  pork  1  T  flour 

1  onion  2  T  butter 

2  C  diced  potatoes  1  C  sliced  tomatoes 
1  pt.  corn  pulp  1  celery  stalk 

1  pt.  hot  milk  1  C  broken  crackers 

Cut  the  pork  in  pieces,  place  in  a  kettle  and  fry  until  crisp. 
Take  out  the  meat  leaving  the  fat,  add  to  it  the  sliced  onion  and 
let  it  cook  until  tender  and  lightly  colored.  Then  add  the  raw 
diced  potatoes,  the  corn  pulp,  sliced  tomatoes,  and  the  celery 
stalk  cut  into  bits.  Celery  salt  may  be  substituted  for  the  celery. 
Meanwhile  have  the  corncobs  cooking  in  a  pint  of  hot  water. 
Cover  the  other  vegetables  with  water  and  put  on  the  fire.  As 
soon  as  the  potatoes  are  tender  pour  in  the  hot  milk  and  the 
water  strained  off  the  cobs.  Cook  the  flour  and  butter  together 
as  for  white  sauce  and  stir  into  the  chowder.  Simmer  five  min., 
put  in  the  crackers  and  serve  hot. 

CORN  CROQUETTES 

6  ears  corn  1  T  flour 

1  egg  IT  milk 
Vi  t  pepper  %  t  salt 

Cut  the  kernals  from  the  corn,  mix  and  form  in  croquetts 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Cohn. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

4  ears  corn  ^4  t  pepper 

2  beaten  eggs  *  1  C  flour 

y2  t  salt  1  C  cold  milk 

Cut  the  kernals  from  the  corn.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  salt, 
pepper,  flour,  and  milk.  Have  ready  a  hot  frying  pan  well 
greased  and  drop  in  the  batter  by  spoonfuls.  There  should  be 
enough  for  a  dozen.  Do  not  let  the  fritters  touch.  Cook  in  re- 
lays, frying  on  one  side  4  min.,  then  turn  and  fry  the  other.  These 
are  delicious  as  an  accompaniment  for  chicken  or  to  serve  for 
breakfast. 

(NANTUCKET)  CORN 

1  doz.  ears  corn  1  t  salt 

1%  pt.  rich  milk  %  t  pepper 

4  eggs  2  T  sugar 

With  a  keen  bladed  knife  score  each  row  of  kernels,  then 
scrape  out  the  pulp,  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  To  the  pulp 
add  the  milk,  the  beaten  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  if  the  corn  lacks 
sweetness,  the  sugar.  Bake  in  a  well  buttered  deep  dish  for  2 
hrs.,  in  a  slow,  steady  oven. 


-127- 


CORN  PUDDING 

1  can  corn  2  T  butter 

2  eggs  Vs  t  salt 

1  C  milk  Vs  t  pepper 

Put  in  baking-dish,  stand  in  a  pan  of  water,  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  30  min.  Cover  at  first  for  awhile,  then  uncover  and  let 
brown. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 
CORN  PUDDING 

1  can  corn  1  T  butter 

3  eggs  Vs  t  salt 

Beat  egg  separately,  mix  with  corn,  melt  butter,  add  salt; 
beat  thoroughly,  place  in  covered  bake  dish  and  bake  20  min. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

CORN  PUDDING 

V/z  C  canned  corn  4  T  flour 

1  C  milk  1  T  sugar 

2  eggs  1  T  melted  butter 

Put  the  corn  through  the  food  chopper,  add  milk,  then  the 
beaten  egg,  flour,  B.  P.,  sugar,  melted  butter  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  brown.  This  may  also  be  used  for  fresh  grated 
corn. 

Mrs.  R.  Millison. 
CUCUMBERS 

Slice  the  cucumbers  and  put  in  a  quart  jar  within  an  inch 
of  top  of  can.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  on  top  of  vinegar  and 
cucumbers  put  olive  oil  to  the  top  of  can. 

Mrs.  Oscar  Barnes. 

EGG  PLANT,  FRIED 

1  egg  plant  y2  t  salt 

2  eggs  14  t  pepper 
1  C  cracker  crumbs                           1  T  milk 

Peel  egg  plant  and  slice  3-8  in.  thick.  Soak  iy2  hrs.  in  salted 
water.  Let  drain,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  milk,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.    Salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

EGG  PLANT  (Stuffed) 

1  pretty  shaped  egg  plant  1  C  white  cream  sauce 

1-6  t  pepper  2  eggs 

1-3  t  salt 

Boil  eggs  20  min.  Make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting  2  T  but- 
ter, rub  in  4  T  flour  as  this  sauce  must  be  thick;  Add  4  T  milk, 
beat  well,  add  1  C  milk  which  you  have  brought  to  a  boiling 
point.    Boil  until  nicely  thicken  and  smooth. 

Cut  off  top  of  egg  plant,  scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  enough 

—128— 


inside  so  that  it  will  stand  up  well.  Put  what  is  scooped  out  in 
salt  water,  cook  until  tender,  about  20  min.  Drain  off  the  water, 
stir  into  this  the  cream  sauce,  chopped  eggs,  salt  and  pepper. 
Scald  out  the  shell,  fill  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs 
and  butter  over  the  top.  Place  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and 
bake  20  min. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

DICED  EGG  PLANT 

Pare  and  dice  an  egg  plant  sprinkled  with  salt,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  let  stand  10  minutes,  drain,  then  add  2  onions  cut 
in  small  pieces,  1  t  chopped  parsley,  %  C  rice.  Put  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  1  qt.  water,  cook  until  water  is  nearly  absorbed.  Take 
from  stove  and  add  1  t  of  butter,  %  C  strained  tomatoes,  add  1  t 
salt.    Put  in  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

GREEN  PEPPERS  (Stuffed  with  Asparagus  Tips) 

6  green  peppers  Bread  crumbs 

White  sauce  1  large  can  asparagus 

Cut  asparagus  in  pieces,  add  a  rich  white  sauce  and  put  in 
boiled  peppers,  with  butterer  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  a  few 
minutes. 

Mrs.  Cohn. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

12  green  peppers  2  eggs 

x/4  lb.  cooked  ham  1  t  salt 

%  lb.  cooked  veal  %  t  pepper 
%  C  bread  crumbs 

Wash  peppers  in  cold  water,  cut  off  ends  and  scoop  out  the 
seeds.  Mince  the  meat  fine  and  stir  in  bread,  seasoning  and 
beaten  egg.  Fill  the  peppers  with  the  mixture,  set  upright  in 
basin  or  pan,  pour  one  inch  of  hot  water  in  pan  and  bake  till  the 
peppers  pierce  easily  with  a  straw. 

They  may  be  eaten  hot  or  make  a  nice  salad  if  sliced  when 
cold    and  served  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

HALIBUT  POTATO 

Bake  potatoes,  remove  center  by  cutting  the  side  into  a  cross; 
fill  the  shell  with  halibut  flakes  mixed  with  cream  sauce  and 
cover  top  with  grated  cheese,  paprika  and  butter.  Bake  until 
brown. 

HOMINY  AND  CHEESE 

1  C  hominy  1  C  finely  cut  cheese 

2  t  butter  1  t  salt 

2  T  flour  !/4  t  mustard,  pepper  or  paprika 

1  C  milk 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan.    Mix  into  it  the  flour  and  sea- 
—129— 


sonings.  Add  the  milk  and  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  the 
sauce  becomes  thick  and  smooth.  Add  the  hominy,  and  when 
hot  add  the  cheese  and  stir  until  melted. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES 

1  C  hominy  (boiled)  1  t  butter  (melted) 

1  t  salt  1  egg 

Beat  eggs,  add  to  hominy,  salt  and  butter;  shape  into  balls, 
roll  in  flour  and  set  in  cold  place  over  night.  Fry  in  hot  fat  for 
breakfast. 

ITALIAN  VEGETABLES 
1  C  spinach  1  C  potato 

1  C  celery  1  C  asparagus 

1  C  cauliflower  1  t  salt 

Vi  lb.  butter  %  t  pepper 

i/2  lb.  cheese 

Cook  well,  and  bake  in  covered  dish  alternating  the  layers 
of  vegetables  with  butter  and  grated  cheese.    Bake  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

LETTUCE  ROLL 

y2  C  peas  (cooked)  y2  C  mashed  potatos 

%  C  beans  (cooked)  %  C  onion  sliced 

%  C  celery  (cooked)  1  egg 

%  t  salt  %  C  tomato  juice 
6  lettuce  leaves 

Split  beans,  cut  celery  in  %  in.  slices,  onions  diced,  egg  beat- 
en, all  vegetables  mixed  together,  salted  and  rolled  in  lettuce 
leaf.  Put  in  buttered  covered  bake  dish  and  pour  over  all  toma- 
to juice.     Bake  20  min. 

LIMA  BEANS 

To  cook  quickly  by  removing  the  skins,  which  require  the 
long  cooking,  wash  and  throw  the  beans  in  boiling  water  for  10 
min.  Dry  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Then  put  to  cook  in  2%  C  of 
boiling  water  for  every  C  of  beans.  Cook  slowly  45  min.  or  1  hr. 
A  little  celery  improves  the  flavor.  Add  salt.  1  T  carrots  sliced 
thin  also  adds  to  th-°  flavor. 

MACARONI  LOAF 

1  C  milk  14  t  curry  powder 

1  C  bread  crumbs  (fresh)  1  small  onion 

%  C  butter  1  t  parsley,  chopped 
3  eggs 

Scald  the  milk,  pour  over  bread  crumbs,  add  macaroni  that 
has  been  cooked  in  salt  water.  Add  other  ingredients.  Line  a 
mold  with  oiled  paper.  Place  loaf  in  steamer  %  hr.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 


-130- 


(SPANISH)  MACARONI 

1  C  macaroni  1  T  Worcestershire  Sauce 

2  onions  1  t  chili  powder 
1  T  olive  oil  %  can  tomatoes 

3  T  butter  V2  C  cheese  (grated) 

Boil  macaroni  until  tender.    Fry  onions  in  olive  oil  and  but- 
ter, add  while  frying,  the  sauce,  chopped  onion  and  chili  powder. 
Put  this  mixture  and  the  macaroni  together,  add  tomatoes.  Put 
in  baking  dish,  grated  cheese  sprinkled  over  top.     Bake  %  hr.  in 
moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 

MUSHROOMS  AND  ASPARAGUS 

1  lb.  mushrooms  %  t  celery  salt 

2  T  butter  1  pt.  cream 
6  pieces  toast  %  t  pepper 

y2  t  salt  1  lb.  asparagus  tips 

Peel  mushrooms  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter.    Add  cream 
and  asparagus.     Let  it  boil  up  just  once  and  add  pepper,  celery, 
salt  and  serve  on  toast. 

MUSHROOMS  AND  TOMATOES 

1  large  onion,  cooked  brown  in  1  T  flour.  %  t  each  of  nut- 
meg, celery,  salt,  cloves  and  pepper.  Pour  juice  of  tomato  over 
this  and  cook  well.  Make  layer  of  tomato  and  layer  of  mush- 
rooms. Pour  above  sauce  over  and  cover  with  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  20  min.  slowly. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown 

MUSHROOM  TEST 

Put  solid  silver  knife  or  fork  in  cooking  mushrooms.  If  it 
discolors  the  silver  the  mushrooms  are  poison. 


ONION  JUICE 

To  get  onion  juice,  peel  the  onion  and  grate  on  a  large  grater, 
using  much  pressure  to  extract  the  juice. 

ONIONS  AND  POTATOES  (FRIED) 

4  onions  1  T  butter 

4  potatoes  1  T  lard 

%  t  salt  1   T  bacon  grease 

Slice  onions  and  potatoes,  place  fat  in  pan  when  hot,  add 
onions  and  potatoes  and  salt.  Cover  for  the  first  15  min.,  then 
watch  carefully  and  stir  occasionally  for  10  or  15  min.  longer. 
Sometimes  water  is  added  for  10  min. 


-131- 


ONIONS  (STUFFED) 

6  onions  %  t  sage 

6  T  bread  crumbs  2  T  butter 

Vi  t  pepper  %  t  salt 

Scoop  out  center  of  onions,  fill  with  bread  crumbs,  crumbled 
sage,  pepper  and  salt,  well  mixed  and  moistened  with  the  melted 
butter.  Place  the  onions  after  stuffing  on  a  bake  dish,  put  a 
lump  of  butter  on  each,  cover  and  bake  1  hr.,  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

PARSNIP  CROQUETTS 

6  parsnips  1  T  butter 

V8  t  pepper  2  eggs 

2  T  sugar  y2  t  salt 

Scrape  parsnips,  cook  till  tender,  remove  hard  centers  and 
mash.  Add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  sugar,  eggs  and  beat  well.  Mold 
in  round  balls  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  English 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS 

4  parsnips  2  T  flour 

3  eggs  1   C  milk 
y2  t  salt                                               2  T  butter 

Boil  and  mash  parsnips.  Beat  eggs  stiff,  mix  all  well  and  fry 
on  buttered  griddle. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

PEAS  WASHINGTON 

1  pt.  peas  (dried)  1-3  t  salt 

2  eggs  y8  t  pepper 

1  T  butter  5  drops  onion  juice 

V2  C  cooked  peas  y2  C  white  sauce 

Rub  the  one  pint  of  dried  peas  after  cooking,  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  butter  melted,  salt,  pepper  and 
onion  juice.  Put  in  buttered  molds  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Serve  with  y2  C  white  sauce  to  which  has  been  added  the 
y>  C  cooked  peas. 

PECANS  AND  CELERY 

1  C  pecans  \y2  C  rich  white  sauce 

2  C  celery,  cooked  y2  t  paprika 
1  t  salt 

Drain  celery,  add  to  pecans  in  stew  kettle,  add  cream  sauce, 
salt  and  paprika.     Cook  10  min. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

—132— 


POTATO  BALLS 

2  C  mashed  potato  6  eggs 

2  T  melted  butter  1  t  cream 

y2  t  salt  %  t  pepper 

Beat  potatoes  and  butter  very  light,  add  beaten  eggs,  beat 
again.  Then  add  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  again.  Bake 
in  quick  oven  until  brown.  Then  beat  4  eggs  separate  and  put 
on  top  of  dish.  Return  to  oven,  brown  again.  Scoop  out  in 
shape  of  balls. 

POTATO  BALLS  CURRIED 


2  T  butter 

1/2  t  salt 

1  T  onion 

1  C  milk 

1  T  flour 

1  pt.  potato  balls 

1  T  curry  powder 

Melt  butter,  cook  in  it  the  minced  onion.  Add  flour,  curry^ 
powder,  salt  and  milk.  Let  boil  5  min.,  strain  over  1  pt.  hot 
boiled  potato  balls.    Serve  hot  with  cold  meats. 


POTATO  BALLS  IN  PARSLEY 

6  potatoes  mashed  %  C  minced  parsley 

%  can  pimentos  3  T  butter 

Cut  the  pimentos  into  bits  with  the  chopping  knife,  drain 
out  all  juice.  Mix  with  the  mashed  potatoes  which  have  been 
salted,  peppered  and  beaten  thoroughly  adding  3  T  butter.  Make 
into  balls  and  roll  in  parsley,  and  place  on  dish  in  oven  for  five 
min.     Serve  with  fried  chicken  or  meats. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

POTATO  EGGS 

6  potatoes  4  eggs 

V2  t  salt  2  T  paprika 

Mash  potato,  salt,  mold  with  hands  into  shape  of  eggs.  Press 
hard  boiled  yolks  and  whites  separately  through  presser.  Cover 
one  half  of  each  potato  egg  with  egg  whites  and  the  other  half 
with  egg  yolk.     Dust  with  paprika  and  pile  on  plate. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE 

Cut  cold  potatoes  in  slices.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  a 
layer  of  grated  cheese  in  bake  pan.  Alternate  till  filled.  Salt 
and  pepper.     Fill  pan  with  milk  and  bake. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 

POTATOES  CREAMED  WITH  CHEESE 

Cube  cooked  potatoes,  cover  with  hot  cream  sauce,  and  add 
grated  cheese.     Heat  till  cheese  melts. 


133- 


POTATO  CORN 

1  C  milk  1   C  corn  meal 

1  C  mashed  potato  %   t  salt 

1   T  sugar  2  t  B.  P. 

1   egg 

Mix  potatoes  with  milk.  Beat  egg  well.  Beat  all  together. 
Bake  in  muffin  pans.. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  SWEET  POTATOES 

1  large  can  of  pineapple  cut  in  half.  6  large  potatoes,  sliced 
the  same  thickness,  partly  cooked.  1  C  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
the  pineapple  boiled  into  a  syrup.  Put  a  layer  of  potato  and  then 
one  of  pineapple  alternately  in  a  bake  pan.  Pour  the  juice  or 
syrup  over  this  and  bake  about  20  min. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smvth 


DELMONICO  POTATOES 

Layer  of  diced  potatoes,  layer  of  cheese  until  dish  is  full, 
use  drippings  from  ham  of  bacon  to  make  thin  cream  sauce, 
pour  over  till  it  just  comes  to  top.    Bake  till  brown. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES 

Bake  potatoes,  put  through  squeezer  in  circle  or  fancy  shape, 
sprinkle  on  parsley. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Slice  thin  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Put  layer  of  potatoes,  salt, 
pepper,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Alternate  the  potatoes  and 
bread  crumbs  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  bread  crumbs  on  top. 
Put  little  butter  on  top,  then  pour  over  it  a  sauce.     Bake  xfa  lir. 

Sauce : 

1  C  milk  1   T  butter 

2  T  flour  Cook  till  thick. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Pare  potatoes  and  put  in  cold  water  1  hr.  Cut  in  strips  or 
slices  and  dry  throughly  on  cloth.  Drop  into  deep  fat,  boiling. 
They  are  done  when  they  float.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  salt 
and  pepper.     Do  not  add  too  many  at  once  to  fat,  as  it  cools  it. 

KING'S  POTATOES 

6  small  potatoes  2  T  butter 

6  small  onions  IV2  t  salt 

y2  C  celery  %  t  pepper 

Mi    C   parsley  %  t  paprika 

Pare  potatoes  and  cover  bottom  of  dish,  add  onion,  celery, 
parsley  and  seasoning  mixed  and  cover  with  milk  or  cream.  Dot 
with  butter  and  cover.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  soft,  %  hr.  This 
is  best  with  small  new  potatoes  but  can  be  used  with  old  potatoes. 

—134— 


MARBLE  POTATOES 

3  C  mashed  potatoes  2  T  butter 
y2  t  salt  1  egg 

Beat  mashed  potatoes  light  with  salt  and  butter.  Divide  in- 
to 2  parts,  into  %  stir  the  beaten  egg-white,  into  the  othervstir  the 
beaten  egg-yolk.  Mold  into  balls  alternating'yellow  and  white. 
Bake  10  min.,  in  greased  pan. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

POTATO  NESTS 

2  C  peas  2  C  potatoes 

1  T  butter  2  egg-yolks 

Mash  potatoes  and  mix  with  1  well  beaten  yolk  and  melted 
butter.  Beat  thoroughly,  make  into  small  cake,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  1  egg-yolk,  fry  in  butter,  remove  and  scoop  out  in- 
side of  top  making  a  large  nest  in  which  place  the  hot  peas  with 
a  dot  of  butter  on  each  cake.     Serve  hot. 

NEW  POTATOES 

12  small  new  potatoes  4  T  butter 

Heat  plenty  of  butter  in  closely  covered  pan.  Scrape  pota- 
toes (not  sliced)  put  them  into  hot  butter,  cover  down  air  tight 
and  cook  till  potatoes  are  done  and  well  browned  outside  and 
white  and  mealy  inside,  about  %  hr. 

PARSLEY  NEW  POTATOES 

10  new  potatoes  1  T  buttei 

%  C  parsley  2  C  cream  sauce 

y2  t  salt 

Scrape  potatoes  and  boil.  Then  drain,  chop  parsley  very 
fine  and  add  to  cream  sauce  and  salt.  Cover  potatoes  with  this 
and  make  dots  of  the  butter  over  top. 

POTATO  PUFFS 

1  C  mashed  potato  2  t  B.  P. 

2  C  flour  (sifted)  3  eggs 
1/2  G  milk  1/2  t  salt 

Roll  into  balls  and  dip  in  bread  crumbs.     Fry  in  fat. 

SOUFFLE!)  POTATO 

6  potatoes  1  C  cheese 

4  eggs  2  T  butter 
1  pt.  milk 

Slice  potatoes,  grate  cheese  and  put  layers  of  each  alternate 
in  covered  bake  dish,  dotting  with  butter  and  salt  between.  Bake 
45  min.,  add  milk  to  beaten  egg  and  pour  over  all  and  bake  20 
min.  longer. 


-135- 


POPCORN  BALLS 

2  C  sugar  Vi  C  vinegar 

1  C  water  2  T  butter 

3  qts.  popped  corn 

Use  freshly  popped  corn.  Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar,  wat- 
er, vinegar  and  butter,  pour  over  corn  and  mold  while  hot  into 
balls.     Wrap  in  oiled  paper. 

FRIED  RADISHES 

Cut  large  fresh  radishes  in  half  and  fry  in  oil  1  min.  Serve 
with  meat. 

PLAIN  BOILED  SPAGHETTI 

Fill  a  deep  vessel  with  boiling  water.  Take  a  dozen  spag- 
hetti sticks  full  length,  and  push  into  the  water  without  breaking 
as  they  soften.  Boil  just  22  min.  Take  out  and  drain.  Cover 
with  butter  or  grated  cheese  or  stewed  tomatoes  while  hot. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  CHEESE 

2  C  cooked  spaghetti  1  C  cheese 

1  C  creamed  sauce 

Cut  spaghetti  into  inch  strips.  Alternate  layers  of  cheese 
and  spaghetti  in  a  bake  pan.  Pour  over  all  cream  sauce  and 
bake  10  min. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  TOMATO 

2  T  butter  2  C  spaghetti 
2  C  tomato  1  t  salt 

Alternate  spaghetti  and  tomato,  salt  and  butter,  in  a  bake 
dish.    Cover  and  bake  30  min.    1  C  cream  sauce  may  be  added. 

SPINACH 

2  lbs.  spinach  %  t  salt 

3  T  butter  y±  t  pepper 
2  eggs  cooked 

Wash  the  spinach  carefully  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  until 
ready  to  cook,  drain  it  and  place  in  covered  kettle.  Lift  care- 
fully over  with  spoon  until  it  starts  to  cook,  then  it  will  have 
plenty  of  its  own  water.  Cook  20  min.,  season  with  the  melted 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  sliced  eggs  over  top.  This 
will  serve  8. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh 

STUFFED  SPINACH 

6  large  spinach  leaves  4  T  bread  crumbs 

6  eggs  1  t  onion 

1  T  minced  parsley  %  t  salt 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  butter  and  water.  Scald  spinach 
leaves  and  drain.     Hard  boil  eggs,  remove  yolks  and  mash  with 

—136— 


bread  crumbs,  minced  onion,  salt  and  parsley.  Place  on  spinach 
leaf  and  roll.  Place  side  by  side  in  pan  and  cover  with  cream 
sauce  and  bake  in  covered  dish  20  min.  Press  whites  of  eggs 
through  ricer  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  dish  when  done. 

SUMMER  SQUASH 

Mash  and  pare  squash  and  cut  in  thick  pieces  3  in.  square. 
Bake,  skin  down  and  serve  with  butter  while  hot. 

SUCCOTASH 

1  qt.  string  beans  2  tomatoes 

1   qt.  corn  %  t  salt 

4  slices  bacon  Vs  t  pepper 

Peel  and  chop  tomatoes,  add  to  cooked  beans  and  corn.  Boil 
20  min.  with  strips  of  bacon  on  top. 

SUCCOTASH 

1  C  lima  beans  1  t  salt 

2  T  butter  1  C  cream 

1  can  corn  %  t  pepper 

Drain  beans  and  corn,  mix  with  salt  and  pepper,  when  boil- 
ing add  cream  and  butter. 

SWEET  CORN 

Husk  and  silk  the  corn  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  % 
hr.,  to  which  has  been  added  1  C  milk. 
6  ears  corn  on  cob  1  T  salt 

2  qts.  water  1   C  milk 

Steamed  corn  requires  45  min.  to  1  hr.  to  cook  but  it  is  much 
better. 

SWEET  POTATO 

Mash  sweet  potato,  roll  in  corn  flakes  and  bake  in  oven  or 
fry  in  butter.  Mrs.  Millison 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

1  pt.  riced  potatoes  2  eggs 

1  t  butter  i/i  t  cinnamon 

%  t  salt  Ys  t  nutmeg 

Rice  sweet  potatoes,  add  butter,  salt,  eggs,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg. Roll  into  croquettes,  dip  into  egg,  and  then  into  bread 
crumbs,  then  fry. 

GEORGIA  SWEET  POTATOES 

Pare  4  large  potatoes  and  cut  in  large  slices  lengthwise,  let 
stand  in  cold  water  20  min.,  take  out  and  wipe  dry  and  put  in 
bake  dish,  cover  with  syrup  made  of 
%  C  butter  %  C  water 

V2  C  sugar 

Bake  1  hr.,  uncovered  and  turn  top  potatoes  to  bottom. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long 

—137— 


SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  MARSHMALLOWS 

2  T  butter  1  t  sugar 

1  T  cream  1  doz.  marshmallows 

1  t  salt 

Cook  potatoes  until  tender,  remove  the  skins.  Mash  and  add 
the  seasoning.  Place  in  serving  dish,  cover  with  marshmallows. 
Put  in  oven  a  min.  before  serving. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

SWEET  POTATOES  AND  NUT  CROQUETTES 

6  sweet  potatoes  M  C  cream 

34  t  salt  1  C  corn  flakes 

1  T  butter  1  qt.  lard 

%  t  pepper  .  1  can  peas 

Vi  lb.  walnut  meats 

Boil  and  mash  sweet  potatoes,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter, 
add  walnut  meats  and  moisten  with  cream.  Form  into  croquet- 
tes, dip  into  beaten  egg  and  corn  flakes,  drop  into  smoking  fat 
and  fry  a  golden  brown.     Serve  hot  with  buttered  peas. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison 

STUFFED  SWEET  POTATO 

Bake  sweet  potato  for  1  hr.,  in  hot  oven,  then  break  in  center. 
Scoop  out  center  leaving  shell  whole.  Put  through  ricer,  add 
salt,  butter,  1  egg-yolk,  cream,  brown  sugar  and  beaten  egg- 
whites.  Stuff  shells  with  this.  Sprinkle  top  with  sugar  and  but- 
ter.    Put  in  oven  until  brown. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  BAKED 

12  tomatoes  ^  t  pepper 

1  onion  1  T  sugar 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1  C  cream 
1  t  salt 

From  blossom  end  of  tomatoes  cut  a  thin  slice,  scoop  out 
pulp  without  breaking  skin,  chop  onion  finely  and  mix  with 
bread  crumbs  and  tomato  pulp.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  sugar  and  cream.  Refill  the  tomato  shells,  place  slice  on 
top  and  place  in  buttered  baking  dish,  the  cut  ends  up,  putting 
into  the  dish  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning.  Put  small 
piece  of  butter  on  each  tomato  and  bake  30  min.,  or  until  the 
tomatoes  are  done  but  not  broken. 

TOMATO  MEXICAN 

4  tomatoes  green  %  t  salt 

Yz  green  pepper  1  T  meal 

V2  C  olive  oil  1  T  flour 

Slice  tomatoes.  Mix  meal,  flour  and  salt,  dip  tomatoes  in 
the  mixture,  fry  in  hot  olive  oil  adding  the  pepper  chopped  fine 
and  seeded. 


-138— 


FRIED  GREEN  TOMATO 

6  green  tomatoes  Vz  C  bread  crumbs 

y2  t  salt  Vs  t  pepper 

4  T  butter 

Cut  tomatoes  in  %  in.  thick  round  slices  without  peeling.  Mix 
salt  and  pepper  with  crumbs.  Dip  each  slice  in  crumbs,  fry  in 
the  butter  and  serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 

Butter  baking  dish,  place  in  bottom  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  add 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  a  layer  of  toasted  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs.    Repeat  until  dish  is  full.    Bake. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

1  doz.  tomatoes  1  t  minced  onion 

2  eggs  1-16  t  pepper 
1  C  bread  crumbs  %  t  salt 

1  G  ham  1-16  t  mustard 

4  T  melted  butter  Mace 

Allspice  Cloves 

1  C  tomato  pulp  1  C  chicken 

To  bread  crumbs,  chicken  and  ham  add  butter,  pepper,  salt 
mustard,  tomato  pulp,  hard  boiled  egg-yolks,  minced  onion,  mace, 
allspice  and  cloves.     Stuff  and  bake. 

VEGETABLE  CUTLETS 

1  C  dried  peas  2  t  salt 

2  slices  onion  x/±  t  soda 

6  cloves  2-3  C  peanuts 

12  peppercorns  %  C  dried  bread  crumbs 

Bay  leaf  .  %  t  pepper 

8  T  cream 

Soak  peas  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Drain,  put  in 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Again  drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and  add  onions,  cloves,  pep- 
percorns, bay  leaf,  salt  and  soda.  Cook  until  soft,  drain  and  rub 
through  seive.  Add  finely  chopped  peanuts,  dried  bread  crumbs, 
pepper  and  cream.  Shape  in  form  of  cutlets  and  saute  in  but- 
ter.    Garnish  with  paper  frills. 

WAR  TIME  HASH 

Use  any  kind  of  vegetables  you  may  have  on  hand,  peas, 
potatoes,  celery,  spinach,  rice,  asparagus,  tomato  or  any  kind  of 
mixture,  alternate  each  layer  with  grated  cheese  in  a  deep  bake 
dish,  with  Dread  crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Cover  and  bake  % 
hr.  Small  bits  of  meat  or  chicken  may  be  added.  This  is  a 
good  way  to  use  left  overs. 


-139- 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 


Apple  Pudding 

Apple  Pudding 

Apple  Pudding  and  Sauce 

Beefsteak  Pudding 

Berry  Pudding  Steamed 

Black  Pudding 

Black  or  Ginger  Pudding 

Bread  Pudding 

Bread  Pudding  Caramel 

Bread  Pudding  with  Fruit 

California  Pudding 

Caramel  Pudding 

Carrot  Pudding 

Carrot  Plum  Pudding 

Cherry  Pudding 

Chocolate  Pudding 

Chocolate  Pudding  Hot 

Coffee  Tapioca  and  Sauce 

Cottage  Pudding 

Crumb  Pudding 

Date  Pudding 


Date  Pudding  and  Sauce 

Date  Pudding  with  Ice  Cream 

Delicate  Bice  Pudding 

Delicious  Rice  Pudding 

Easter  Pudding 

Fig  Pudding 

Fig  Pudding 

Fig  Pudding  Steamed 

Fig  Pudding  and  Sauce 

Foamy  Sauce 

Frozen  Pudding 

Frozen  Pudding 

Fruit  Pudding 

Fruit  Pudding 

Graham  Pudding 

Hard  Sauce 

Hard  Sauce 

Hasty  Pudding  and  Hard  Sauce 

Hingham  Pudding  and  Sauce 

Indian  Pudding  Baked 

Kiss  Pudding 

Lemon  Sauce 


Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 
Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 
Mrs.  Governor  Lewelling 
Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


Mrs.  E.  Zartman. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 
Mrs.  Howard  Norton. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 
Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 
Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 
Mrs.  Cleveland. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 
Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 
Mrs.  C.  F.  Ferguson 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 
Harriet  Stanley. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 
Mrs.  Spangler. 
Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Mrs.  Howard  Norton. 
Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 


-142- 


Maple  Pecan  Pudding 
Macaroon  Pudding 
Maple  Pudding 
Maple  Sauce 
Marchioness  Pudding 
Marshmellow  Pudding 
Marshmellow  Cream  Pudding 
Millionaire  Plum  Pudding 
Nation  Pudding 
Nut  Pudding 
Nut  Pudding- 
Old  Fashioned  Rice  Pudding 
Orange  Pudding 
Orange  Sauce 
Pineapple  Meringue 
Pineapple  Pudding 
Plum  Pudding  Sauce 
Plum  Pudding  Sauce 
Plum  Pudding  Cold 
Plum  Pudding  Steamed 
Prune  Pudding 
Prune  Whip 
Prune  Pudding 
Queen  Pudding 
Snow  Pudding 
Souffle  Pudding 
Sponge  Pudding 
Sweet  Potato  Pudding 
Tapioca  Pudding 
Tapioca  Fruit  Pudding 
Tipsy  Pudding 
White  Pudding  Sauce 
Woodford  Jam  Pudding 


Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 
Mrs.  F.  G. 'Smyth. 
Mrs.  Fred  Robertson. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 
Mrs.  Murray  Myers. 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

Mrs.  Howard  Norton. 

Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

Mrs.  Baldwin. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

Mrs.  Lewis. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 
Mrs.  Sp angler. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


-143- 


APPLE  PUDDING 

1  C  bread  crumbs    •  1  C  sugar 

2  T  butter  1  t  nutmeg 
8  apples 

Soak  dry  bread  crusts  in  cold  water,  slice  good  cooking 
apples.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  a  layer  of  soaked  bread  crusts 
in  bottom  of  dish,  then  a  layer  of  apples.  Cover  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  half  to  three-quarters  of  1  hr.  till  the  crust  is 
brown,  serve  hot  with  a  good  rich  sauce,  or  sugar  and  cream 
flovored  or  a  rich  dip  sauce. 

Mrs.  George  Whitney. 

APPLE  PUDDING 

y2  C  water  4  small  apples 

1  C  sugar  %  C  butter 

%  C  flour 

Peel  apples  and  cut  in  8  pieces,  put  in  long  shallow  pan,  then 
rub  flour,  sugar  and  butter  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  dough, 
sprinkle  over  apples,  bake  in  slow  oven  until  the  apples  are 
tender;  serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 

APPLE  PUDDING  AND  SAUCE 

Y*  C  sugar  Yi  C  water 

1  T  butter  2  C  apples 

1  t  nutmeg 

Line  a  round  granite  pan  with  raw  sliced  apples,  sprinkle 
over  the  sugar,  butter,  nutmeg  and  water. 

DOUGH 

2  t  B.  P.  IT  butter 
1  C  flour                                              1  C  milk 

1  T  sugar  V8  t  salt 

Mix  dough,  spread  over  apples  and  bake  slowly. 

SAUCE 

1  C  sugar  1  t  cream 

3  T  butter 

Mix  and  cream  well.    Serve  on  Pudding. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING 

1  lb.  hamburg  steak  2  eggs 

1-3  C  flour  1  pt.  milk 

1-3  C  butter 

Beat  eggs,  then  add  to  meat,  gradually  add  milk.  Cream 
butter  and  flour  first.    Bake  in  pudding  dish  1  hr. 

Mrs.  Governor  Lewelling. 


—144— 


BERRY  PUDDING  (Steamed) 

1  C  sugar  2  C  flour 

1  egg  1  C  milk 

2  t  li.  P.  2  C  berries 

Stir  as  a  simple  cake,  adding  the  well  flavored  berries  last, 
strawberries  or  cherries  are  especially  nice  in  this  pudding. 
Steam  2  hrs. 

SAUCE 

1  C  sugar  1  pt.  water 

1  T  butter  1  T  corn  starch 

Nutmeg 

Cream  together  sugar  and  butter,  add  boiling  water  to  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  cold  water;  boil  thoroughly.  Season  with 
nutmeg  or  what  you  like.  Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

1  C  flour  1  C  seeded  raisins 

1  C  hot  water  2-3  C  dark  molasses 

2  egg-yolks  %  C  Eng.  walnuts 
1  t  soda  V2  t  salt 

Separate  the  eggs  placing  the  yolks  in  a  crock — add  molasses 
and  salt— beat,  sift  in  half  of  the  flour,  add  y2  C  hot  water.  Sift 
the  soda  thoroughly  through  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  add  %  C 
hot  water,  the  floured  raisins  and  nuts. 

Place  in  buttered,  floured  cans;  steam  for  2  hrs. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

BLACK  OR  GINGER  PUDDING 

1  C  molasses  2-3  C  boiling  water 

1  egg  into  the  molasses  1  t  soda  into  the  water 

1  t  cinnamon  1%  C  flour 
1  t  ginger 

Put  together  as  they  come.  Bake  1  hr.  and  serve  with  hard 
sauce.  Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

5  slices  dry  bread  %  t  salt 

1  C  milk  t  1  t  vanilla 

2  eggs  %  C  sugar 
1  t  nutmeg 

Cover  stale  bread  with  milk  and  set  over  fire.  When  soft 
mash  with  spoon.  Add  sugar  and  salt,  add  beaten  egg-yolks  and 
cook  2  min.,  adding  vanilla.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  stiffly 
beaten  egg-whites.  Pour  into  dish  and  add  nutmeg  sprinkled 
over  top.  Do  not  soak  bread  for  Bread  Pudding  for  that  is  what 
makes  pudding  heavy.  Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

—145— 


BREAD  PUDDING— CARAMEL 

1  pt.  bread  crumbs  1  'C  milk 
V>  C  seeded  raisins  %  t  salt 

2  T  sugar  2  T  butter 

2  eggs 

Soften  bread  crumbs  with  melted  butter  and  milk.  Add 
beaten  eggs,  raisins,  salt  and  sugar.  Bake.  Make  following 
sauce : 

1%  C  brown  sugar  V2  C  milk 

4  T  grated  chocolate 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  grated  chocolate  and  pour  hot  over 
pudding. 

BREAD  PUDDING  WITH  FRUIT 

3  eggs  1  C  sugar 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1  pt.  milk 

2  C  peaches  1  T  butter 

Butter  hard  bread,  then  crumble  into  bits.  Butter  pudding 
dish,  put  in  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  peaches,  then  bread. 
Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  milk,  pour  over  pudding  and  bake. 
Dot  butter  on  top.  Any  fruit,  canned  or  fresh,  or  dried  can  be 
used.    Do  not  use  juice. 

CALIFORNIA  PUDDING 

2  C  bread  crumbs  1  t  cinnamon 

2  t  B.  P.  y2  t  allspice 

2  eggs  1  t  nutmeg 

1  C  sugar  2  apples   (chopped) 

1  C  raisins  3  T  butter  (melted  and  mixed 

2-3  C  milk  in  bread  crumbs) 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  then  add  eggs  and  milk.  Bake 
30  or  40  min.  in  moderate  oven. 

SAUCE 

1  C  sugar  3  T  butter 

1  T  flour  Juice  and  rind  of  small  lemon 

Add  boiling  water  a  little  at  a  time  until  of  proper  con- 
sistancy. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 

1  C  tapioca  3  C  B.  Sugar 

1  pt.  water  1  can  grated  pineapple 

1  qt.  warm  water  V8  t  salt 

Whipped  cream 

Pour  cold  water  over  tapioca,  let  soak  1  hr.  then  cook  with 
the  warm  water,  B.  sugar  and  salt  slowly  for  20  min.  Add  pine- 
apple.   Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Zartman. 


-146- 


CARROT  PUDDING 

1  C  ground  carrots  1  t  salt 

1  C  ground  potato  1  C  flour 

%  C  suet  1  t  cloves 

1  C  sugar  1  t  cinnamon 

Chop  suet  fine,  mix  all  together  well.    Steam  3  hrs. 

SAUCE 

2  eggs  M>  C  hot  water 

2  C  powdered  sugar  %  C  butter 

Beat  eggs  separately.     Add  melted  butter  to  boiling  water 
and  sugar  and  when  boiling  pour  over  eggs.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

CARROT  PLUM  PUDDING 

1  C  grated  or  ground  raw  car-  2%  C  flour 

rots  7  t  B.  P. 

1  C  grated  or  ground  raw  po-  1  C  brown  sugar 

tatoes  1  t  each  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
1  C  chopped  suet  nutmeg    . 

3  C  seeded  raisins 

Add  nuts  and  currants,  if  desired.    Steam  3  hrs. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 


CHERRY  PUDDING 

%  C  sugar  2-3  C  flour 

y2  C  milk  2  t  B.  P. 

2  T  butter  1  pt.  can  cherries 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour  and  milk  alter- 
nately, and  B.  P.  Put  the  cherries  into  a  baking  dish  and  boil 
them  adding  more  sugar  if  they  are  very  sour.  While  boiling 
pour  the  batter  over  the  fruit,  but  do  not  mix  it  in.  Be  sure  that 
the  fruit  is  entirely  covered.  Remove  at  once  to  hot  oven  and 
bake  about  20  min.     Serve  with  hot  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 


SAUCE 

1  T  butter  1  C  cold  water 

1  T  flour  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1-3  C  sugar 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  sugar  and  lemon  and 
last  the  water,  stirring  constantly  while  it  thickens  and  boil  sev- 
eral minutes. 

Mrs.  Howard  Norton. 


-147- 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING  (Steamed) 

%  C  sugar  1%  C  flour 

%  C  butter  2  squares  chocolate 

2-3  C  milk  1  t  B.  P. 

1  egg  1  t  vanilla 

3  T  boiling  water 

Mix  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  egg,  milk,  flour,  etc. 
Melt  chocolate,  add  water,  stir  in  last.  Steam  2%  hrs.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

2  T  butter  V2  C  sugar 
y4  C  flour                                           3  eggs 

%  C  milk  i/i  vanilla 

la/2  sq.  chocolate 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  then  milk  and  chocolate.  When 
thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add  well  beaten  yolks  and  sugar. 
Let  cool  and  add  the  egg-whites  beaten  very  stiff  and  flavor. 
Bake  about  35  min.  and  serve  hot  with  frozen  whipped  cream 
that  has  been  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

COFFEE  TAPIOCA 

2  C  hot  coffee  V2  C  sugar 

1  C  milk  14  t  salt 

%  C  tapioca  2  eggs  (whites) 

Stir  into  hot  coffee  and  milk  the  tapioca,  sugar,  and  salt; 
cook  15  min.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.    Pour  into  molds  and  serve  cold,  with  custard  dressing. 

CUSTARD  DRESSING 

V2  C  sugar  2  eggs  (  yolks) 

1  C  milk 

Boil  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thick;  add 
vanilla  flavoring. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

2  C  flour  1  egg 

2  t  B.  P.  34  c  sugar 
1  t  salt                                                1  C  milk 

3  T  melted  butter 

Mix  salt  and  B.  P.  with  flour,  beat  egg.  Add  sugar,  butter 
and  milk.  Bake  in  shallow  dish  and  serve  with  lemon,  wine  or 
foamy  sauce.    This  may  be  steamed. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

_148— 


CRUMB  PUDDING 

1%  C  flour  IT  butter 

2  t  B.  P.  34  t  salt 
%  C  sugar 

Mix  as  for  pie  crust,  moisten  with  milk  the  same  as  for  cake 
batter.    Bake  in  pie  tin.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

DATE  PUDDING 

1  C  dates  1  C  Eng.  walnuts 

3  T  flour  4  T  milk 

2  eggs  1  C  sugar 
1  t  B.  P. 

Cut  the  dates  with  scissors,  break  up  the  nuts,  separate  the 
eggs,  beat  the  egg-whites  until  stiff,  beat  the  egg-yolks  thorough- 
ly. Put  together  again,  add  sugar,  put  the  B.  P.  in  half  of  flour, 
roll  dates  and  nuts  in  other  half,  mix  all  together,  place  in  a 
buttered  pan,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  bake  40  min.  in  slow 
oven.    Serve  with  either  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  0.  A.  Rorabaugh. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

DATE  PUDDING 

5  eggs  %  lb.  dates  stoned  and  chopped 

1-3  C  powdered  sugar 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  powdered  sugar  and  dates.  Bake  in  pan 
set  in  pan  of  water. 

HARD  SAUCE 

%  C  butter  V2  C  sweet  cream 

1  C  powdered  sugar 

Cream,  sugar  and  butter  and  work  in  gradually  cream. 

Mrs.  Cleveland. 

DATE  PUDDING 
(With  Ice  Cream) 

1  C  sugar  1  C  dates 

2  eggs  1  t  B.  P. 

4  T  cracker  crumbs  1  saltspoon  salt 
1  C  Eng.  walnuts  1  t  vanilla 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar.  Then  add  cracker  crumbs 
rolled  but  not  pounded.  Add  nuts  chopped.  Add  beaten  whites 
the  last  thing.  Bake  slowly  in  a  flat  pan  25  min.  This  serves  9 
people.    To  be  served  with  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


149— 


DELICATE  RICE  PUDDING 

1  pt.  cream  whipped  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  cooked  rice  V2  C  nuts 

1  package  gelatine  V2  C  candied  cherries 
y2  C  cold  water 

Dissolve  gelatine  thoroughly  in  the  cold  water.  To  the  whip- 
ped cream  add  the  rice,  then  sugar  and  vanilla;  then  add  gela- 
tine. Let  stand  10  min.  in  ice  chest;  then  add  chopped  nuts  and 
candied  cherries.    Will  serve  8  to  10  persons. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

DELICIOUS  RICE  PUDDING 

2  egg-yolks  3  C  milk 

%  C  sugar  1  T  corn  starch 

1  T  lemon  extract  1  C  well  cooked  rice 

Mix  egg-yolks,  sugar,  milk  and  corn  starch  together.  Put  on 
the  stove  and  when  warm  add  the  rice,  boil  until  thick  and 
smooth.  When  done  add  the  flavoring,  pour  into  a  pudding 
dish,  cover  with  meringue  made  of  whites  of  2  eggs.  Put  in  the 
oven  to  brown.    Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

EASTER  PUDDING 

4  eggs  V-2  envelope  of  Knox  Gelatin 

4  lady  fingers  V±  C  candied  pineapple  cut  in 
V>  C  sugar  small  pieces 

14  C  blanched  almonds  cut  in  M?  pt.  whipping  cream 

small  pieces  1  t  vanilla 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  Vi  C  of  cold  water  then  place  over  hot 
water  till  thoroughly  dissolved.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  to  stiff  foam, 
add  sugar  and  flavoring  and  the  lady  fingers  broken  in  small 
pieces,  1  t  vanilla.  To  the  beaten  whites,  add  the  whipped 
cream  and  gelatin — blend  well — then  stir  in  the  egg-yolk  and 
lady  finger  mixture — Add  the  pineapple  and  nuts.  Pour  into 
a  mold.    Set  in  ice  chest  4  hrs.  or  more. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

FIG  PUDDING 

1  lb.  raisins  1  C  flour 

1  lb.  figs,  ground  1  C  fruit  juice  or  coffee 

2  C  bread  crumbs  %  nutmeg 

2  C  suet  1  lemon  rind 

2  C  B.  sugar  1  t  soda 

2  C  nuts,  chopped  V8  t  salt 

2  C  citron,  cut  fine  4  eggs 

Run  figs  through  grinder,  chop  nuts  and  citron  fine,  grate 
rind  of  lemon.  Mix  well  all  together,  put  in  B.  P.  cans  %  full, 
add  cover  and  steam  4  hrs.  Must  not  let  it  stop  steaming  or  pud- 
ding will  be  soggy. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

—150— 


FIG  PUDDING 

2  C  flour  1  C  minced  beef  suet 

2  t  B.  P.  V2  t  cloves 

2  t  cinnamon  %  t  nutmeg 

2  t  ginger  1  C  chopped  figs 

Y2  t  salt  1  C  New  Orleans  molasses 

3  eggs  y2  t  mace 

1  C  milk 

Mix  together  flour,  B.  P.,  cinnamon,  ginger,  salt,  cloves,  mace 
and  nutmeg,  add  suet,  add  chopped  figs,  rubbing  them  through 
the  prepared  flour  (as  above)  then  add  milk,  molasses  and  eggs, 
stir  the  mixture  well,  pour  into  a  pudding  mold  and  steam  3 
hrs.    If  cooked  in  little  cups,  will  steam  in  half  hr. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

FIG  PUDDING  (Steamed) 

y2  C  suet  1  t  cinnamon 

y2  C  seeded  raisins  or  figs  1  t  cloves 

chopped  %  grated  nutmeg 

y2  C  molasses  1  egg  beaten  lightly  last 

iy2  C  flour  1  t  soda  with  sour  milk 

y2  C  milk,  sour  or  sweet  1%  t  B.  P.  with  sweet  milk 

2  t  ginger 

Steam  25  or  30  min.  in  individual  tins  or  3  hrs.  in  pudding 
dish.    Serve  with  sauce. 

SAUCE 

%  C  butter  1  pt.  boiling  water 

1  C  sugar  1  t  lemon 

2  T  flour  1  T  vanilla 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

FIG  PUDDING  AND  SAUCE 

%  lb.  B  .  sugar  3  acid  apples 

y2  lb.  figs  3/4  C  sweet  milk 

y2  lb.  suet  3  eggs 

y2  lb.  bread  crumbs  %  C  nuts 

5  T  flour 

Grind  figs,  suet,  bread  crumbs  and  apples;  to  these  add  flour 
and  sugar,  mix  thoroughly,  add  milk,  then  eggs  beaten  separate- 
ly, then  nuts.    Put  in  buttered  pudding  molds.    Steam  3  hrs. 

SAUCE 

2  egg-yolks  1-3  C  butter 
1  C  sugar                                              1  C  water 

3  T  flour  1  lemon 

Mix  flour  and  sugar;  add  water,  then  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  lemon,  add  butter,  then  well  beaten  yolks  and  cook  over  boil- 
ing water  15  min.    Will  serve  20  to  24. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

—151— 


FOAMY  SAUCE 

2  T  butter  Vs  t  cinnamon 

1  C  powdered  sugar  %  t  nutmeg 

2  egg-yolks  V2  pt  whipped  cream 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  add  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Then  add  whipped  cream 
and  beat  well. 

This  sauce  is  very  nice  with  any  steamed  or  baked  pudding. 

Harriet  Stanley. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

4  eggs  1  C  strawberry  preserves 

Y2  C  granulated  sugar  1  C  walnuts  (chopped) 

1  T  flour  1  C  raisins  (chopped) 

1  qt.  milk  1  t  vanilla 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  until  light.  Dis- 
solve the  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  add  to  it  the  mixture  and 
boil  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
cold  add  preserves,  raisins  and  nuts.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Freeze 
as  ice  cream,  when  half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beat- 
en, finish  freezing.  Whip  a  C  of  cream  until  stiff,  add  2  T  of 
powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve  on  top-  of  pud- 
ding. Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

3  C  cream  %  t  salt 

2%  C  milk  V-2  C  macaroons 

1  C  sugar  V2  C  candied  cherries 

Scald  cream,  milk,  sugar  and  salt  in  double  boiler,  but  do 
not  boil.  Let  cool,  freeze,  when  almost  frozen  add  powdered 
macaroons  and  candied  cherries  cut  in  small  pieces.     Serve  10. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 

1  can  diced  pineapple  1  C  sugar 

2Y2  C  water  including  juice  1  t  butter 
Boil  this  10  min. 

SAUCE 

y2  C  sugar  2  t  B.  P. 

1  egg  i/2  C  flour 

1  T  melted  butter 

Drop  in  above  and  bake  25  min.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Brown. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 

2  T  gelatine  1  C  peaches 
1  C  sugar  2  egg-whites 
V±  C  water  .  1  C  cream 
%  C  milk 

Whip  egg-whites  and  mix  with  whipped  cream.  Into  this 
fold  other  mixture.    Set  on  ice.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


-152- 


GRAHAM  PUDDING  (Steamed) 

1%  C  Graham  flour  1  C  milk 

y2  t  salt  Vo  C  molasses 

y%  t  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  1  C  raisins 

and  nutmeg  1  t  soda 

Steam  1%  hrs. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Sp angler, 

HARD  SAUCE 

1  C  powdered  sugar  1  t  nutmeg 

V2  C  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

HARD  SAUCE 

1  T  butter  1  T  cream  whipped 

4  T  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  cream. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

HASTY  PUDDING 

2%  C  water  3  t  orange  extract  or  juice  of 

1  C  sugar  fresh  orange 

1  T  butter 

Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  mix  following  and  drop  in  the 
above  boiling  syrup.    Bake  25  minutes. 

HARD  SAUCE 

1  C  flour  1  t  B.  P. 

1  T  butter  y2  C  sugar 

y2  C  milk 

Stir  all  together  and  drop  off  spoon  into  hot  syrup.    Serve  6. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

HINGHAM  PUDDING 

%  C  New  Orleans  molasses  ^  C  butter 

%  C  brown  sugar  1  C  raisins 

1  C  cold  water  1  t  soda 
3  C  flour  2  t  B.  P. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  molasses  with  soda  in  it. 
Be  sure  and  stir  soda  in  well  until  it  foams  before  putting  it  into 
the  sugar  and  butter.  Then  add  alternately  flour  and  water. 
Flour  raisins  out  of  the  flour  and  put  B.  P.  in  the  last  of  the  flour 
added.    Put  in  baking  powder  cans  and  steam  3  hrs. 

Sauce  for  this  pudding: 

2  eggs  1  C  powdered  sugar 
y±  C  melted  butter                            1  t  vanilla 

Put  eggs  in  bowl,  beat  with  dover  beater  until  very  light 
then  add  melted  butter.  Add  slowly  the  powdered  sugar  beating 
constantly,  add  vanilla.    This  sauce  is  good  with  any  pudding. 

—153— 


INDIAN  PUDDING  (Baked) 

1  pt.  milk  y2  t  grated  nutmeg 

y-2  C  corn  meal  2  T  butter 

M>  C  molasses  1  pt.  milk 

1  t  salt  1  pt.  apples,  if  desired 

14  t  ginger 

Put  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  it  boils,  pour  it  gradual- 
ly over  cornmeal.  Return  to  boiler  and  cook  half  hr.  stirring 
often.  Then  add  molasses,  salt,  apples  cut  small.  Bake  in  a 
deep  pudding  dish,  buttered,  slowly  for  3  hrs.  or  more.  Add  1 
pt.  cold  milk,  just  as  you  put  it  into  the  oven,  without  stirring. 
Serve  with  cream  or  butter. 

Mrs.  Howard  Norton. 

KISS  PUDDING 

1  pt.  milk  y8  t  salt 

4  eggs  1  C  powdered  sugar 

1  T  cornstarch  y2  C  cocoanut 
4  T  sugar 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  little  milk,  beat  yolks  and  strain 
mixture.  Place  in  double  boiler,  (milk  and  sugar),  beat  well, 
then  stir  in  eggs  and  cook  well  done.  Put  on  platter,  beat  whites 
with  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  add  cocoanut  and  pour  over  pud- 
ding and  put  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

2  T  butter  4  eggs 

1  t  flour  3  T  sugar 

Place  in  saucepan  the  butter  and  stir  in  flour,  then  stir  in 
beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  juice  of  lemon  strained  and  %  rind  grat- 
ed.    Do  not  cook  too  fast  nor  too  long. 

MAPLE  PECAN  PUDDING 

2  C  maple  syrup 

\x/-2  T  gelatine  soaked  in  2  T  cold  water 
1  C  heavy  whipped  cream 
1  C  pecans  broken  up 

Bring  syrup  to  a  boil.  Take  from  fire  and  add  gelatine. 
When  cold  add  cream  and  nuts  and  put  into  mold  and  dot  the 
top  with  whole  pecans. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

MACAROON  PUDDING 

y>  C  water  1-3  box  gelatine 

1  C  cream,  whipped  stiff  1  C  macaroons 

1  C  sugar  y2  t  vanilla 

Cherries 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  roll  enough  macaroon  to  fill 
1  cup.  Put  all  together  in  a  mold  to  cool.  Add  cherries  on  top 
when  serving. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

—154— 


MAPLE  PUDDING 
1  C  maple  sugar  4  egg-yolks 

Cook  20  min.  or  until  thick.  Cool  and  add  1  pt.  whipped 
cream.     Add  nuts  if  wanted.     Pack  in  ice  4  hrs. 

Mrs.  Fred  Robertson 

MAPLE  SAUCE 

%  C  maple  syrup  %  T  cornstarch 

%  C  water  1  T  butter 

Dissolve  corn  starch  in  2  T  of  the  water.  Boil  the  rest  of  the 
water,  sugar  and  the  syrup,  stir  in  cornstarch  and  cook  8  min. 
Serve  on  pudding  or  ice  cream. 

MARCHIONESS  PUDDING 

1  pt.  cream  Flavoring 

1  C  sugar,  pulverized  1  C  hot  water 

1  T  gelatine  %  pt.  grated  pineapple 

2  egg-whites 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water.  Cool,  add  to  whipped  cream, 
sugar,  pineapple  and  the  beaten  egg-whites.  Flavor  to  taste. 
This  should  be  placed  on  ice  to  mold,  and  will  serve  6  or  8.  It  is 
very  nice  to  add  chopped  nuts  or  candied  fruits. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

1  T  Knox  gelatine  in  1  C  hot  water 

4  T  cold  water  2-3  C  sugar 

Flavoring  3  egg-whites 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  sugar  and  hot  water, 
then  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites  and  whip  20  min. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  make  a  custard  of  yolks  and  serve 
with  it.  This  serves  10  persons  and  will  keep  for  days  in  a  cool 
place. 

Mrs.  Murray  Myers 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  PUDDING 

1  T  gelatine  2  t  vanilla 

%  C  cold  water  1  C  chopped  nuts 

Whites  of  4  eggs  Whipped  cream 

2  C  granulated  sugar  Brandied  cherries 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Put  over  fire  and  bring  to 
boil  stirring  constantly.  Then  beat  the  egg-whites  and  add  to 
them  sugar,  and  the  cooled  gelatine.  Beat  steadily  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken.  Stir  into  it  the  vanilla  and  nuts.  When  very 
thick  pour  into  molds  and  set  upon  ice.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  and  brandied  cherries. 


-155- 


MILLIONAIRE  PLUM  PUDDING 


1  qt.  bread  crums 
1  pt.  currants 

1  pt.  raisins 
4  T  suet 

2  T  cinnamon 

1  nutmeg 

2  T  butter 
%  t  citron 
1/2  C  milk 

1  C  B.  sugar 

5  eggs 

Steam  4  hrs., 

and 

serve  with  the  following  sauce : 

1/2  C  butter 

V/2  C  pulverized 

sug: 

ar 

1  egg 

NATION 

PUDDING 

y2  sponge  cake 
2  T  gelatine 
i/2  C  cold  grape 
2  egg-whites 
1  T  orange  juice 

juice 

1  C  hot  grape  juice 
1   C  sugar 
1  T  lemon  juice 
1  G  double  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  grape  juice  and  dissolve  in  hot  grape 
juice,  add  sugar,  lemon,  orange.  Cool.  When  cool  add  stiffly 
beaten  egg-whites  and  set  on  ice  4  hrs.  Serve  on  squares  of  thin 
sponge  cake,  topping  all  with  whipped  cream  and  candied  grapes, 
or  grape  in  candy  fondant. 


1  C  molasses 
1  C  sweet  milk 
1  C  chopped  suet 
2y2  C  flour 

Steam  2%  hrs. 
cream. 


NUT  PUDDING 

y2  t  soda 
1/2  t  salt 

1  pound  English  Walnuts 
XA  pound  chopped  figs 
This  to  be  served  with  sauce  or  whipped 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 


NUT  PUDDING 

1  T  flour 
1  t  B.  P. 


6  eggs 

1  G  sugar 

2  C  English  Walnuts 

Beat  eggs  separately.  Add  sugar  to  yolks  and  chopped  nuts 
to  whites,  combine  and  add  flour  and  B.  P.  Bake  in  individual 
molds.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon 

OLD  FASHIONED  RICE  PUDDING 
(Sometimes  called  Poor  Man's  Pudding) 

1  qt.  milk  3  T  sugar 

3  T  rice  %   t   salt 

Use  new  milk.  Wash  rice  thoroughly.  Put  all  in  granite 
baking  pan  and  cook  10  min.  on  top  of  stove.  Then  put  into  a 
slow  oven  and  bake  about  1  hour.  It  should  be  a  delicate  brown 
when  done.  Must  not  bake  dry.  Will  serve  5  or  6  portions. 
This  is  an  excellent  dessert  for  the  sick. 

Mrs.  Howard  Norton 


-156— 


ORANGE  PUDDING 

3  eggs  3  t  cornstarch 

1  C  sugar  2  oranges 

2  G  milk  %  t  lemon  flavoring 

Beat  the  egg-yolks,  add  %  C  sugar,  cornstarch  and  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Add  %  C  sugar  to  the  beaten 
whites,  fold  in  the  custard.  When  cool  add  flavoring  and 
oranges  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

ORANGE  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS 

1  C  powdered  sugar  1  orange 

%  C  butter  1  pt.  boiling  water 

1  T  flour 

Cream  powdered  sugar  with  butter,  add  flour  and  juice  and 
rind  of  orange,  set  over  fire  and  pour  in  pint  of  boiling  water, 
let  cook  up  well  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

C.  C. 

PINEAPPLE  MERINGUE 

1  qt.  milk  %  C  flour 

4  eggs  1  can  sliced  pineapple 

1  C  sugar  1  small  stale  sponge  cake 

Have  boiling  one  qt.  of  milk.  Take  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  add  one  cup  sugar.  One  half  cup  flour,  add  all  this  to 
boiling  milk.  Then  cook  until  quite  thick,  take  off  stove,  cool 
a  little  and  add  1  t  vanilla.  Have  ready  sponge  cake  broken  in- 
to one  inch  pieces — also  pineapple  cut  into  small  pieces.  Fill 
dish  alternately,  with  cake,  pineapple  and  custard,  until  dish  is 
full.  Beat  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  a  little  sugar  to  whites, 
spread  over  top  of  pudding  and  brown  in  oven,  serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING 

1  pt.  heavy  cream  2  egg-whites 

%  box  gelatine  1  t  vanilla 

1-3  C  cold  water  1  C  grated  pineapple 

1  C  sugar  1  doz.  lady  fingers 

Add  cold  water  to  gelatine,  when  partly  dissolved  add  2  T 
hot  pineapple  juice.  Beat  cream,  add  sugar  and  egg-whites 
beaten  stiff,  then  add  vanilla,  then  pineapple.  Let  stand  %  hr. 
in  ice  box.     Serve  on  lady  fnigers. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE 

*4  C  butter  1  t  extract  lemon 

1   C  powdered  sugar  2  egg-yolks,  well  beaten 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  extract  and  beaten  yolks.  Add 
1  C  rich  milk  or  cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler  as  a  custard.  Pour 
over  2  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten.     Serve. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 


-157- 


PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE 

1  egg  !/4  C  melted  butter 

1  C  sugar  i/o  pt.  cream,  beaten  stiff 

1  t  vanilla 

Beat  egg  and  sugar  until  light,  then  add  butter.  Beat,  add 
cream  and  vanila  last. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel 

PLUM  PUDDING  (cold) 

1  box  gelatine  %  C  currants 

1   C  water  y±  G  citron 

1  pt.  milk  %  t  vanilla 

1  C  sugar  %  C  chopped  nuts 

3  T  chocolate  %  t  salt 

1   C  raisins  Whipped  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  heat  milk  and  sugar,  grind  choc- 
olate and  citron  and  chopped  nuts.  Dissolve  gelatine,  adding  to 
milk  and  sugar,  mix  all  together.  Let  stand,  slice  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

PLUM  PUDDING  (Steamed) 

y%  C  suet  chopped  fine  %  C  chopped  raisins 

%  C  black  molasses  Y2  C  flour 

%  t  soda  1   egg-yolk 
Steam  in  individual  molds. 

Sauce  for  pudding:  Flavoring 

1  C  sugar  %  C  butter 

4  T  hot  water  1  egg-white 


Mrs.  Baldwin. 


PRUNE  PUDDING 


5  eggs  1  C  pulverized  sugar 

y<2>  t  cream  tartar  y±  lb.  prunes  (cooked) 

y2  t  salt 

Beat  together  egg-whites,  cream  tartar  and  salt,  add  sugar 
and  prunes  (seeded  and  chopped).  Mix  all  well  together,  pour 
in  mold,  set  bake-dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  20  min.  When 
cool  turn  out  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


PRUNE  WHIP 


3  eggs  7  prunes 

y2  C  sugar  1-16  t  salt 

Beat  the  three  egg-whites  until  very  stiff,  add  the  seeded 
and  cut  prunes,  lightly  beat  in  sugar.  Bake  20  min.  Set  bake- 
dish  in  pan  of  water. 

Mrs.  Rorabaugh. 

—158— 


PRUNE  PUDDING 

x/2  lb.  prunes  1  C  sugar 

2  T  gelatine  y2  lemon 

Let  prunes  stand  in  water  over  night.  Cook  next  morning 
till  tender.  Add  1  C  sugar.  Quarter  prunes.  If  2  C  of  liquor 
are  not  left  add  water.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water  then  add 
juice.  Put  on  stove  to  heat.  Remove,  add  juice  of  lemon.  Stir 
in  ^runes.    Mold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.    Mrs.  Lewis. 

QUEEN  PUDDING 

1  pt.  milk  Walnut  or  butter 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1  C  sugar 

2  eggs  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mix  the  above,  leaving  out  whites  of  eggs,  add  %  lemon. 
Bake  until  done  but  not  watery.  Spread  with  jelly  or  jam.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  juice  of  half  lemon.  Spread  on 
top  and  brown  lightly. 

Meringue : 
2  eggs  3  T  sugar 

%  lemon  Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

%  box  gelatine  1  C  sugar 

%  C  cold  water  1  lemon  (juice) 

1  pt.  boiling  water  4  egg-whites 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water.  When  dissolved,  pour  in 
boiling  water.  WHhen  nearly  cool  add  sugar  and  juice  of  lemon 
strain,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beat  all  well  and  chill. 

Custard : 
4  egg-yolks  1  pt.  boiling  water 

%  t  corn  starch  %  t  sugar 

Beat  egg-yolks,  sugar,  corn  starch,  add  boiling  water  and 
cook.  C.  C. 

SOUFFLE  PUDDING 

2  T  butter  .  1C  milk 
2  T  flour  4  eggs 

9  T  sugar 

Let  milk  come  to  boil.  Beat  butter  and  flour  together,  then 
add  slowly  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  8  min.  stirring  often.  Beat 
sugar  and  egg-yolks  together.  Add  to  the  cooked  mixture  and  set 
away  to  cool.  When  cool,  beat  egg-whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
to  the  cooked  mixture,  and  pour  all  into  well  greased  pan,  baking 
20  or  30  min.    Serve  immediately. 

SAUCE 

1  pt.  milk  2  T  sugar 

2  eggs  1/2  t  vanilla 

Let  milk  come  to  boil,  then  add  eggs  and  sugar  well  beaten 
together.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  It  should  be  about  as  thick  as 
cream.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanlev. 


-159- 


SPONGE  PUDDING 

1  pt.  milk  V2  C  sugar 

y2  C  flour  5  eggs 

1/2  C  butter 

Dissolve  flour  in  half  pt.  of  milk,  then  stir  in  remainder  of 
milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  add  butter,  let  cool,  beat  yolks 
of  eggs,  with  sugar  and  add  to  mixture;  then  add  beaten  whites, 
bake  in  pan  set  in  hot  water  about  30  min.     Serve  with  hard 


sauce. 


Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

iy2  lb.  potatoes  %  lb.  sugar 

1  t  nutmeg  4  eggs 

%  lb.  butter  1  lemon  rind 

1  C  milk 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes  with  butter,  add  egg-yolks,  sugar, 
milk,  grated  lemon  rind  and  nutmeg.  Add  stiffly  beaten  whites 
last.    Bake  1  hr. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

2  pt.  water  %  t  salt 

1  C  tapioca  1  C  walnuts 

3  C  B.  sugar  Whipped  cream 

Soak  tapioca  over  night  in  1  pt.  of  water.  In  morning  add 
other  pt.  of  water  and  h.  sugar  and  salt.  ■  Bake  3  hrs.,  when 
nearly  done  add  nuts.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

TAPIOCA  FRUIT  PUDDING 

1  C  pearl  tapioca  1  C  water 

1  pineapple  2  C  sugar 

6  bananas  3  oranges 

y2  lb.  nuts 

Soak  tapioca  in  water  over  night.  Cook  with  sugar  and 
pineapple  until  tender.  Add  oranges,  slice  the  bananas,  and 
nuts,  and  cover  all  with  whipped  cream,  garnish  with  chocolate 
cream  or  marshmellows. 

Mrs.  Sp angler. 

TIPSY  PUDDING 

Use  Loganberry  juice  instead  of  grape  juice  in  Nation  Pud- 
ding. 

WHITE  PUDDING  SAUCE 

%  C  butter,  creamed  1  egg-white,  beaten  stiff 

1  C  fine  sugar  y2  t  vanilla 

4  T  boiling  water 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 


160- 


WOODFORD  JAM  PUDDING 

1  C  blackberry  jam  1  T  buttermilk 

%  t  soda  Egg  of  butter 

3  egg-yolks  Nutmeg 

Snappy  flavoring 

Beat  whites  and  add  enough  sugar  for  meringue,  spread  on 
top  and  brown,  serve  with  a  good  butter  sauce,  with  some  snappy 
flavoring  in  it. 

Meringue:  2  egg-whites,  1  T  sugar. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


161- 


DESSERTS 


Almond  Cream 

Almond  Custard 

Angel  Charlotte  Russe 

Angel  Food  Loaf 

Angel  Snowballs 

Apple  Dumpling 

Apples,  Fried 

Apple  Jinx 

Apple  Roley  Poley 

Apples  stuffed  with  nuts 

Apricot  Jelly  a  la  Regiment 

Bananas,  Baked 

Banana  Sponge 

Banana  and  Whipped  Cream 

Boston  Cream  Puffs 

Blackberry  Mush 

Bridge  Coffee 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Caramel  Tapioca 

Charlotte  Russe 

Clotted  Cream  or  Devonshire 

Cream 
Cherry  Pudding 
Charlotte  Russe 
Coffee  Butter 
Coffee  Italian  Cream 
Coffee  Souffle 
Cocoanut  Pudding 
Chocolate  Ice  Box  Desert 
Chess  Tarts 
Chocolate  Souffle 
Chocolate  Macaroon  Pudding 
Cream  Pudding 
Delicate  Rice  Pudding 


Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


C.  C. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


C.  C. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 
Mrs.  Cohn. 
C.  C. 


c  c. 

Mrs.W.  B.  Buck. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

Agnes  Long. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 

Pauline  Brown  Gillespie. 

Madeline  Butts  Lewis. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

Mrs.  Coler  Sim. 


Custard 

Custard,  Baked 
Caramel  Custard 
Crystal  Custard 
Maple  Syrup  bustard 
Pineapple  Custard 
Tapioca  Custard 
Dates  Stuffed 
Easter  Balls 
Egg  Sauce 
Floating  Island 
Figs  and  Nuts 
Gelatine  Loaf 
Graham  Fruit  Mush 
Grapes 
Grapefruit  Frivol 


CUSTARDS 

Mrs.  Weiss. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

C.  C. 


Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley 

C.  C. 

Katherine  Lewis  Mechum. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 


-164— 


Junket 

Kingsleys  Bivo 

Kisses 

Lemon  Filling 

English  Lemon  Honey 

Liberty  Apples 

Loganberry  Macedoine 

Macaroon  Souffle 

Maple  Sponge 

Maple  Whip 

Maraschino  Rice  Cup 

Maraschino  Russe 

Marshmellows  Toasted 

Meringues  and  Whip  Cream 

Marshmellow  Delight 

Moonshine 

Mint  Dry 

Mint  Leaves 

Moonshine 

Niagara  Foam 

Nut  Rings 

Nut  Sticks 

Oranges,  Baked 

Orange  Desert 

Orange  Float 

Orange  Hamburg 

Peaches,  Baked 

Peach  Balls 

Peach  Puffs 

Paradise  Pudding 

Pineapple  Desert 

Peach  Souffle 

Pears  in  Cantaloupe 

Peerless  Desert 

Pineapple  Meringue 

Potato  Crust  for  Dumplings 

and  Sauce 
Prunes 
Prune  Butter 
Prunes,  Stewed 
Prune  Whip 
Raisin  Puffs 
Refrigerator  Cake 
Rhubarb 

Rhubarb  Scalloped 
Rice  and  Apricots 
Salted  Nuts 
Short  Cake  Dough 
Sauce  for  Short  Cake  Dough 
Snowballs  and  Sauce 
Snow  Cream 
Snow  Souffle 
Snow  Pudding 
Stale  Cake 


Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  Chester  Long. 
Mrs.  Ralph  Millison 

Gaby  Gouldner  Powell. 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


Helen  Brooks  Hall. 
Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 
Helen  Brooks  Hall. 


Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Whitney. 
Teresa  L.  Comley 
Mrs.  rlenry  Lassen. 


Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 
Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Whitney. 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Sp  angler. 
C.  C. 

Mrs.F.  G.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 
C.  C. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 
Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 


-165— 


Strawberries,  Escalloped 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Strawberry  Sunshine 

Strawberry  Whip  Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 

Tortion  Tart 

University  Pudding  Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

Washington  Cream  Pie 

Wichita  Special 


-166— 


ALMONDS  AND  NUTS  BLANCHED 

Put  the  nut  meats  over  the  fire  in  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil 
quickly,  drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water  when  the  skins  may  be 
rubbed  from  the  almonds. 

ALMOND  CREAM 

1  pt.  double  cream  %  t  vanilla 

2  T  powdered  sugar  %  lb.  almond  paste 
6  mashed  macaroons  %  box  gelatine 

Whip  cream,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  mix  almond  paste  and 
macaroons.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water  and  beat  all  together. 
Put  in  dish  and  when  cold  cover  with  maraschino  cherries 
quartered. 

ALMOND  CUSTARD 

3  C  milk  4  eggs 

2  bay  leaves  4  T  sugar 

Y8  t  cinnamon  1  C  cream 

*4  lb.  almonds 

Put  milk,  bay  leaves  and  cinnamon  in  sauce  pan,  stir  over 
slow  fire  until  boiling,  grind  or  grate  almonds,  mix  egg-yolks. 
When  milk  is  boiling,  remove  from  fire,  add  cream  and  egg- 
whites,  stir.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  thickened,  then 
stir  until  cold. 

ANGEL  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

1  T  Knox  sparkling  gelatine  soaked  in  ^  C  cold  water.  Dis- 
solve this  into  %  C  hot  water.    Whip  1  pt.  cream  very  stiff.    Add 

1  C  powdered  sugar  to  gelatine.    When  cool,  add  whipped  cream 
and  half  doz.  macaroons  rolled  fine. 

2  T  candied  cherries  1  C  finely  chopped  blanched 
%  doz.  marshmellows  cut  very  almonds 

fine  1  t  vanilla  or  almond  extract 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

ANGEL  FOOD  LOAF 

Bake  Angel  Food  in  square  pan,  when  cold  cut  off  top  1  in. 
thick,  remove  center,  leaving  a  square  box,  which  fill  with 
pistachio  ice  cream  solidly,  springle  pistachio  nuts  over  top, 
cover  with  lid  which  was  cut  from  top  of  cake,  cover  all  with 
stiffly  whipped  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla,  slice  and  serve. 

Formula  for  above: 
1  Angel  cake  square  1  pt.  whipped  cream 

1  qt.  ice  cream  1  t  vanilla 

%  C  Pistachio  nuts 

ANGEL  SNOW  BALLS 

y2  Angel  Food  cake  1  C  grated  cocoanut 

1  C  maple  syrup 

Cut  Angel  Food  in  small  round  balls,  dip  in  maple  syrup  and 
roll  in  cocoanut  grated. 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Two  C  apples 

Make  rich  biscuit  dough  and  roll  half  in.  thick.  Spread  over 
this  tart  apples  cut  fine.  Roll  together  as  for  jelly  roll  and  cut 
in  pieces  2  in.  thick.  Drop  in  boiling  syrup  made  of  the  following 
ingredients: 

1  C  sugar  i/i  t  nutmeg  or 
1%  pt.  water                                      %  t  cinnamon 

Bake  20  or  30  minutes  in  hot  oven.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

APPLES,  FRIED 

2  C  sliced  unpeeled  apples  %  C  butter 
y2  C  sugar  Vi  C  water 

1  T  butter 

Put  water  in  skillet,  add  apples,  sugar  and  butter  on  top, 
cover  5  min.  Let  water  cook  out  of  apples.  Stir,  cook  until 
brown. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

APPLE  JINX 

8  apples  cut  in  quarters  1  C  flour 

y2  C  water  1  C  sugar 

i/2  C  butter 

Work  sugar,  butter  and  flour  together  until  it  crumbles  and 
put  on  top  of  apples,  bake  %  hr.  very  slow  oven.    Grease  pan. 

APPLE  ROLEY  POLEY 

%  C  sugar  added  to  biscuit  1  egg  for  8  apples 

dough 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  adding  sugar  and  egg.  Roll  out 
about  one  in.  thick,  have  ready  your  apples  pared  and  slice  thin; 
lay  them  on  top  of  the  dough,  then  begin  at  the  end  and  roll  up 
like  jelly-roll;  put  in  cooker  and  steam  one  hour  or  more  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  pudding.  Serve  hot  with  a  suitable 
sauce. 

APPLES  STUFFED  WITH  NUTS 

Core  apples  and  fill  in  space  with  finely  chopped  nuts,  sugar 
and  cinnamon  to  taste.    Bake  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

C.  C. 

APPRICOT  JELLY  A  LA  REGIMENT 

2  lb.  dried  apricots  %  C  sugar 

1  pkg.  gelatine  1  C  boiling  water 

Wash  and  soak  dried  apricots  in  cold  water  2  hrs.,  simmer 
in  same  water  to  cover  until  soft.  Then  strain  and  mash  through 
a  seive.  Stir  briskly  for  a  few  minutes.  Dissolve  gelatine  in 
boiling  water  and  add  the  apricots,  with  sugar.  Serve  cold  with 
heavy  cream  or  whipped  cream.  This  may  be  prepared  in  a 
chafing  dish  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

—168— 


BAKED  BANANAS 

y2  doz.  bananas  V±  C  butter 

y2  C  sugar  %  lemon 

Cut  bananas  into  halves  lengthwise  and  pour  over  them  the 
melted  sugar  and  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Put  in  uncovered 
dish  earthenware  or  glass,  and  bake  20  min.  Small  minced 
apples  may  be  added.  Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

BANANA  SPONGE 

Make  a  custard  and  pour  over  sliced  bananas,  dotting  over 
covering  all  with  grated  macaroons — any  stale  cake  may  be  grat- 
ed and  used. 

BANANA  AND  WHIPPED  CREAM 

Bananas  may  be  mashed  and  beaten  and  served  with  whip- 
ped cream,  flavored  with  Rose. 

BOSTON  CREAM  PUFFS 

1  pt.  milk  iy2  C  flour 

2-3  C  butter  5  eggs 

Scald  the  milk  and  butter  together,  add  the  flour  stirring 
constantly  until  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  well,  adding  the  eggs  which  have  been 
slightly  beaten  together.  Bake  in  greased  gem  pans,  1  T  in  each, 
30  min.  in  moderate  oven.  They  will  be  hollow  when  done. 
When  cold  open  at  side  and  fill  with  mixture  as  follows : 

1  pt.  milk  1  T  flour 

2  eggs  2-3  C  sugar 

Cook  together  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until 
smooth  and  thick.    Chocolate  pie  filling  maye  be  used. 

C.  C. 

BLACKBERRY  MUSH 

1  qt.  blackberries  1  C  sugar 
\y2  C  water                                         4  T  flour 

Wash  and  pick  over  berries,  add  water  and  boil  until  berries 
are  tender.  Moisten  flour  in  water  and  stir  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Add  to  the  cooked  fruit  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Add  sugar  while  still  boiling,  then  take  from  fire 
and  put  in  deep  dish  to  cool.  Serve  very  cold  with  heavy 
unwhipped  cream.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

BRIDGE  COFFEE 

2  T  gelatine  1  C  water,  boiling 

%  C  cold  water  2  C  black  coffee,  strong 

1  pt.  double  cream  %  C  sugar 

3  drops  vanilla 

Soak  gelatine  in  water  half  hr.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water, 
strain,  add  coffee  and  sugar,  stirring  well.  Turn  into  mold  when 
set,  cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  to  which  has  been 
added  3  drops  vanilla. 

—169— 


CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL 

2  C  water  2  C  gr.  sugar 

3  oranges 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  blended.  Cut  orange  peel  on  the 
round  with  scissors,  cook  in  3  changes  of  water,  15  min.  each. 
Then  put  in  syrup  and  cook  until  syrup  boils  down.  While  hot 
roll  in  granulated  sugar.  Two  small  C  sugar,  the  same  of  water, 
is  enough  to  cover  the  rind  from  three  oranges. 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

CARAMEL  TAPIOCA 

1  C  tapioca  1  C  pecans 

4  C  water  Whipped  cream 
3  C  B.  sugar 

Soak  tapioca  over  night  in  the  4  C  of  water.  Do  not  pour  off 
water,  but  mix  with  other  ingredients.  Bake  1%  hrs.,  stirring 
occasionally  when  first  put  in  oven.  Serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Cohn. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

1  qt.  cream,  whipped  V2  box  gelatine 

1%  C  powdered  sugar  1%  t  vanilla 

3  egg-whites 

Soak  gelatine  until  dissolved,  strain.  Beat  all  together  and 
serve.  Either  line  a  dish  with  lady-fingers  or  stale  cake;  or, 
serve  in  cups,  without  cake,  with  whipped  cream.  C.  C. 

CLOTTED  CREAM,  OR  DEVONSHIRE  CREAM 

Let  milk  stand  24  hrs.  in  cold  weather,  12  in  summer.  Set 
on  stove  until  nearly  boiling,  must  come  to  the  nearly  boiling 
point,  very  slowly  in  order  to  be  firm  and  must  look  thick  when 
done.  Set  aside  overnight  in  cool  place  and  skim  by  rolling 
or  folding  over  and  over  in  rolls.  Set  on  ice  until  used.  Travel- 
ers in  England  know  the  Clotted  Cream  of  Devon  &  Cheddar. 

CHERRY  PUDDING 

1  C  milk  y8  t  salt 

2  t  B.  P.  1  C  cherries 
2  eggs 

Beaten  eggs  add  milk,  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  salt  and  cherries  stirred  in.  Steam  one  hour.  Serve  with 
liquid  sauce.  Cranberries,  peaches,  currants,  or  any  kind  of  tart 
fruit  is  nice  used  with  this  recipe.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

C.  C. 
CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

1  qt.  heavy  cream  1  C  sugar 

2  egg-whites  1  C  chopped  almonds  blanched 
y2  pkg.  Knox  gelatine  1  C  candied  cherries  chopped 
1  t  almond  extract  V2  doz.  lady-fingers 

Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  milk  for  15  min.  Beat 
cream  stiff.    Add  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites.    Fold  in  sugar,  then 

—170— 


the  dissolved  gelatine  added  carefully  and  extract.  Line  large 
mold  with  lady-fingers  cut  lengthwise.  Add  one-half  of  your 
mixture.  Over  this  sprinkle  the  chopped  fruit  and  nuts  and  last 
the  remainder  of  the  Russe.  Now  take  a  spatula  and  run  it  up 
and  down  through  the  Russe  until  well  mixed.  Set  near  ice,  and 
turn  on  your  dish  from  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  a  few  drops  of 
almond  extract. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

COFFEE  BUTTER 

Vo  C  butter  1  egg-yolk 

Y±  C  sugar  3  T  coffee  extract 

Cream  unsalted  butter,  sugar  and  add  egg-yolk,  well  beaten, 
and  coffee  very  strong  may  be  used  instead  of  extract. 

COFFEE  ITALIAN  CREAM 

1  C  coffee  1  T  gelatine 
1/2  C  milk  2  T  water 
y2  C  sugar  Vo  t  vanilla 
3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  2  T  cold  water  5  min.  Heat  coffee  until  hot 
add  milk  and  sugar  and  cook  in  double  boiler.  Add  beaten  egg- 
yolks  and  cook  until  thick,  add  gelatine  and  pour  custard  over 
them.    Beat,  add  vanilla,  mold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

COFFEE  SOUFFLE 

2  T  butter  1  C  strong  coffee 

3  T  flour  V2  C  cream 
!/2  C  sugar  3  egg-yolks 

Melt  butter,  rub  in  flour,  add  coffee,  remove  from  fire,  add 
egg-yolks,  sugar  and  cream.  Add  beaten  egg-whites,  last  turn 
into  bake  dish  and  bake  30  min.  in  slow  oven.  Serve  with  whip- 
ped cream  or  ice  cream.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING 

y2  C  butter  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  sugar  4  eggs 

1  pkg.  cocoanut 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  then  cream;  into  this  the  cocoa- 
nut.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Flavor.  Bake  slowly 
until  brown.    Serve  with  following  sauce : 

Yolks  of  eggs  1  T  butter 

1  C  sugar  y2  t  vanilla 

Steam  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick  syrup. 

Agnes  Long. 

—171— 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  BOX  DESSERT 

2  T  boiling  water  4  egg-yolks  and  whites 

2V2  T  sugar  1%  doz.  lady-fingers 

2  cakes  sweet  chocolate 

Melt  chocolate  in  double  boiler  and  add  hot  water,  then  egg- 
yolks  one  at  a  time,  beat,  let  cool  and  add  whites  beaten  dry. 
Line  mold  with  lady-fingers  cut  in  two  lengthways.  Pour  over 
the  mixture  and  let  stand  on  ice  24  hrs.  before  using.  Line  mold 
with  waxed  paper  before  putting  in  pudding. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

CHEESE  TARTS 

1  C  brown  sugar  1  T  cream 

1  egg  1  t  vanilla 

y2  C  raisins 

Beat  well  and  let  stand  for  30  min.  Then  bake  in  gem  pans 
lined  with  rich  pastry. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton, 


HOT  CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE 

2  T  butter  3  eggs 

2  T  flour  2  T  hot  water 

7/s  C  milk  2  squares  chocolate 

y2  C  sugar 

Melt  butter  in  double  boiler,  add  flour.  Pour  in  milk  gradu- 
ally. Melt  chocolate,  add  sugar  and  hot  water,  stir  until  smooth. 
Combine  mixtures.  Add  egg-yolks  well  beaten,  cool,  fold  in 
whites  stiffly  beaten,  add  M>  t  vanilla.  Bake  in  buttered  pan. 
Set  in  pan  of  water,  in  moderate  oven  for  45  min.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Pauline  Brown  Gillespie. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROON  PUDDING 

a/4  lb.  sweet  chocolate  2  eggs 

3  T  hot  water  1%  doz.  macaroons 
3  T  powdered  sugar 

Melt  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  water  and  sugar 
;_nd  beat  until  smooth.  Take  off  fire  and  add  beaten  yolks  and 
let  cool,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Grind  macaroons.  Butter 
a  shallow  pan  and  line  with  alternate  layers  of  macaroons  and 
chocolate  until  you  have  3  layers  of  macaroons  and  2  layers  of 
chocolate.  Put  in  ice  box  for  24  hrs.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 

Madeline  Lewis. 

—172— 


i£ 


CREAM  PUDDING 

t.  double  cream,  whipped  1  small  can  grated  pineapple 

sugar  2  T  heaping  gelatine 

1  C  cherries  V2  C  water 
1  C  nuts  of  any  kind 

Cut  the  cherries  and  nuts  in  small  pieces  and  dissolve  gela- 
tine in  the  water  and  add  to  the  cream.  Add  sugar  slowly,  whip- 
ping all  the  time.    Add  pineapple  last. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

DELICATE  RICE  PUDDING 

3  C  milk  %  C  powdered  sugar 

y2  t  salt  V/2  t  vanilla 

1-3  box  gelatine  %  pt.  cream,  whipped 

Cook  rice,  milk  and  salt  in  double  boiler  until  milk  is  all 
absorbed.  Then  add  dissolved  gelatine.  When  cold  and  begins 
to  thicken  add  powdered  sugar,  vanilla  and  whipped  cream. 
Turn  into  wet  molds. 

Mrs.  Coler  Sims. 

CUSTARDS 

Custard  are  of  two  kinds,  Boiled  Custards  and  Set  Custards. 
Boiled  custards  always  cook  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  constant- 
ly while  cooking  and  also  until  cold.  Set  custards  are  baked  in 
oven  and  never  stirred  while  cooking.  Must  be  baked  in  a  slow 
oven.    When  custard  is  watery  the  oven  is  too  hot. 

When  boiled  custard  lumps  it  has  been  cooked  too  fast  and 
too  long.    Tests  for  custards  cooking : 

Soft  custard  is  done  when  the  froth  disappears.  Another 
test — when  it  covers  the  back  of  silver  spoon. 

Set  custard  is  done  when  a  silver  knife  can  be  run  through 
the  center  and  comes  out  clear. 

Maple-Mousse  unfrozen  makes  a  fine  custard. 

Try  Grape  nuts  instead  of  bread  crumbs  on  top  of  custard. 

Custards  bake  better  in  a  shallow  dish  than  a  deep  one.  It 
must  not  stay  in  the  oven  too  long  or  it  becomes  watery.  Boiled 
custards  are  smoother  if  you  use  only  the  egg-yolks.  Overheat- 
ing of  eggs  makes  custards  curdle.  Beat  just  enough  to  have 
egg  smooth  and  not  stringy. 

CUSTARD 

1  egg  V2  C  sugar 

3  T  flour  1  C  milk 

Mix  egg,  flour  and  sugar,  boil  milk  and  pour  over  the  sauce, 
put  back  on  stove  until  thick,  flavor  and  use. 

Mrs.  Weiss. 


-173— 


BAKED  CUSTARD 

5  eggs  1  qt.  rich  milk 

5  T  sugar  V±  t  salt 

1  t  vanilla 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately;  beat  into  the  yolks  the 
sugar,  add  whites  beaten  very  stiffly,  stir  all  together  with  the 
milk — previously  boiled  and  cooled;  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  salt, 
pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  silver  knife  inserted  will  come 
out  clean. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

4  T  sugar  1%  C  cream 

3  eggs  1  t  vanilla 

3  T  sugar 

Melt  sugar  until  a  light  brown,  pour  it  into  6  custard  cups, 
shake  them  quickly,  so  the  caramel  will  line  them,  beat  the  eggs. 
Add  sugar  and  cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  vanilla  and  pour 
mixture  in  cups,  and  stand  them  in  a  baking  pan  of  hot  water. 
Bake  until  set.  Turn  out  while  hot  in  individual  dishes.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

CRYSTAL  CUSTARD 

1  pt.  cream  3  egg-whites 
V/o  C  sugar,  gr.  14  t  nutmeg 

Pour  cream  on  sugar  and  let  stand  until  egg-whites  are  well 
beaten,  add  this  to  cream,  beat  lightly,  grate  in  nutmeg,  bake  in 
cups  in  hot  water  closely  covered.  Can  be  tested  with  silver 
knife,  if  it  comes  out  clean,  custard  is  done. 

MAPLE  SYRUP  CUSTARD 

3  C  milk  5  eggs 
]4  C  maple  syrup 

Beat  yolks,  add  syrup  and  milk,  add  stiff  whites  the  last 
thing.    Bake  in  a  pan  of  water  in  moderate  oven  or  steam. 

C.  C. 

PINEAPPLE  CUSTARD 

4  T  sugar  3  egg-yolks 

2  T  butter  1  egg-white 

2  T  bread  crumbs  y2  can  grated  pineapple 

2  T  water 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  water  to  pineapple.  Mix  and 
place  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  20  or  25  min.,  brown  in  oven. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  if  desired. 


174- 


TAPIOCA  CUSTARD 

4  T  tapioca  %  t  salt 

4  eggs  %  t  vanilla 

1  qt.  milk  %  C  sugar 

Soak  tapioca  over  night  in  milk.  In  the  morning  add  salt, 
vanilla,  sugar,  beaten  eggs  and  steam  30  min. 

DATES— STUFFED 

Stuffed  dates  or  prunes.  Dates  or  prunes  may  be  stuffed  by 
removing  the  seeds  and  filling  with  pecans  and  rolling  in  powder- 
ed sugar. 

EASTER  BALLS 

Bake  sunshine  cake  in  deep  iron  round  gem  pans,  dip  in 
icing  and  roll  in  chopped  pecans  or  macaroon  crumbs  toasted. 

EGG  SAUCE 

2  eggs  1  t  vanilla 
1  C  sugar  y8  t  salt 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two  eggs  separately,  thoroughly 
to  the  yolks  add  sugar,  flavoring,  salt,  beat  and  beat,  then  beat  in 
your  whipped  whites  and  set  in  the  ice  box  to  get  cold. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

FLOATING  ISLAND 

1  qt.  milk  2  t  flour 

3  eggs  Vanilla 
1  C  sugar 

Beat  the  eggs  separately.  Scald  milk  and  drop  whites  on 
the  milk,  dipping  milk  over  the  whites.  Remove  whites  and 
mix  the  yolks,  sugar  and  flour  and  add  to  milk.  Cook  until 
thick.  Add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Put  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Put 
whipped  whites  on  top. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley.  ■ 

FIGS  AND  NUTS 

1  C  figs  1  C  nuts 

1  C  cream,  whipped 

Cut  figs  into  bits,  chop  nuts,  warm  both  in  oven  and  pour 
whipped  cream  over  all.  C.  C. 

GELATINE  LOAF 

y-2  C  nut  meats  1  C  sugar 

4  egg-whites  1  t  vanilla 

1  T  Knox  gelatine  1  t  cocoa 

2  T  cold  water  Fruit  coloring 
1  C  boiling  water 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  15  min.  then  dissolve  in  1  C  boil- 
ing water.    Add  1  C  sugar.    Beat  egg-whites  stiff.    Into  them  stir 

—175— 


gelatine.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  well,  divide  in  3  parts.  Use  pink 
fruit  coloring  for  one  part.  For  another  part  use  cocoa  dissolved 
in  2  t  warm  water.  When  these  3  parts  begin  to  thicken  put 
them  in  a  loaf  pan  in  following  order:  white,  brown,  pink  with 
nuts  sprinkled  between  each  layer.  Let  stand  in  cold  place  till 
firm.    Serve  in  slices  with  whipped  cream. 

(Mrs.  Kirk  Mechem)  Katherine  Lewis  Mechem. 

GRAHAM  FRUIT  MUSH 

1  pt.  graham  mush  1  C  dates,  figs  or  raisins 

3  T  cream 

Make  Graham  mush.  It  must  not  be  too  thick.  Steam  25 
min.  then  stir  in  cream  and  dates,  chopped.  Cook  5  min.  longer. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

GRAPES 

Add  1  T  of  water  to  1  (not  beaten)  egg-white.  Into  this  dip 
the  grapes  and  then  roll  in  granulated  sugar,  lay  on  oil  paper, 
set  aside  in  cool  place  to  dry. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

GRAPEFRUIT  FRIVOL 

1  pkg.  gelatine  1  T  sugar 

1  C  warm  water  3  C  grape  juice 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water,  add  juice  and  sugar,  let  come  to 
boiling  point  but  do  not  boil,  remove  from  fire,  mold  and  serve 
with  nut  dressing. 

JUNKET 

1  pt.  milk  y2  Junket  tablet 

2  T  sugar  1  T  water 
%  t  vanilla 

Dissolve  tablet  in  water,  put  milk  in  double  boiler,  when 
milk  warm,  remove  from  stove  and  pour  over  sugar.  Add  van- 
illa and  dissolved  tablet,  stir  until  sugar  dissolves.  Put  all  in 
double  boiler  in  boiling  water,  cover  and  remove  from  stove,  let 
stand  15  min.  and  serve  cold. 

KINGSLEY'S  BIVO 

6  egg-whites  1  C  hickory  nuts 

6  T  sugar  %    C   shredded   candied   cher- 

Yo  box  geletine  ries 

Beat  stiff  egg-whites,  add  sugar.  Scatter  nuts  and  cherries 
over  the  beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  gelatine  and  pour  it  into  the  eggs, 
beat  until  it  stiffins,  put  in  paper  lined  mold  by  spoonfuls,  let 
harden.    Slice  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon 


-176— 


KISSES 

4  egg-whites  %  t  vanilla 

1  C  sugar 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  cook  on  oiled  paper  in 
pan  in  slow  oven.    Same  recipe  for  meringue. 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  C  sugar  1  lemon-grated  rind  and  juice 

%  C  water  2  T  cornstarch 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  then  put  in  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
lemon  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  to  this  the  cornstarch  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  boil  until  consist- 
ency of  jelly.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  immediately  spread  be- 
tween the  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

ENGLISH  LEMON  HONEY 

6  lemons  1  lb.  strained  honey 

6  eggs  3/2  lb.  sugar 

Put  in  double  boiler,  mix  thoroughly,  stir  one  way  until  boil- 
ing, add  beaten  eggs,  stir  and  let  simmer  5  min.  Put  in  glass  jar 
and  seal  when  cool. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

LIBERTY  APPLES 

6  apples  1  T  butter 

1  chopped  lemon  %  C  water 

1  C  sugar 

Pare  and  quarter  apples,  place  water  in  bake  pan  with  ap- 
ples, cover  with  lemon,  sugar  and  butter.  When  half  cooked, 
roll  rich  biscuit  dough  cut  the  size  of  a  fifty-cent  piece  and  lay 
these  little  biscuits  over  the  apples.  Cover  and  bake.  When 
nearly  done,  remove  cover  and  brown  the  biscuit.  Serve  with 
sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  Millison 

LOGANBERRY  MACEDOINE 

6  peaches  y2  C  sugar 

1  C  nuts  t  pt.  Loganberry  juice 

5  oranges 

Slice  peaches  and  oranges,  add  nuts,  sweeten  and  chill.  Pour 
over  all  1  pt.  ice  cold  Loganberry  juice,  chill. 

MACAROON  SOUFFLE 

6  macaroons  2  T  melted  sugar  or  carmetez- 
6  egg-whites  ed 

•1  T  sugar 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites  add  crumbled  macaroons 
and  1  T  sugar.  Line  a  double  boiler  with  the  melted  sugar,  put  in 
mixture  and  let  it  boil  20  to  30  min.  Do  not  uncover  any  more 
than  absolutely  necessary. 

—177— 


CARAMEL  SAUCE  FOR  SOUFFLE 

3  egg-yolks  6  T  sugar 

1  C  hot  milk 

Caramelize  sugar  and  add  other  ingredients. 

Gaby  Gouldner  Powell 

MAPLE  SPONGE 

2  C  cream  *4  C  water 

1  t  gelatine  1  C  maple  syrup 

1  t  vanilla  *  Oiled  paper 

Whip  cream  very  stiff,  dissolve  geletine  in  cold  water,  adding 
to  this  maple  syrup  and  vanilla.  Mix  all  together  and  pack  in 
baking  powder  cans.  Cover  top  with  oiled  paper  before  you 
add  cover.     Freeze  5  hrs.      Serve  8  persons. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 


MAPLE  WHIP 

V-2  C  sugar  4  T  cornstarch 

1  C  maple  sugar  2  eggs 

2  C  water 

Beat  yolks,  add  to  water,  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Add  whites 
when  almost  cool. 

C.  C. 

MARASCHINO  RICE  CUPS 

y2  lb.  rice  %  t  salt 

1  qt.  milk  a/s  C  hot  water 

V2  t  vanilla  2  T  gelatine 

V\  C  sugar  %  pt.  whipped  cream 

y&   C  Maraschino  cherries  1  T  almonds 

Cook  rice  in  milk,  dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water,  add  vanilla, 
sugar,  salt  and  gelatine  to  rice,  when  cool  fold  in  the  cream,  cher- 
ries cut  in  two  and  cut  blanched  almonds,  press  into  ramekins 
and  pour  maraschino  over  each,  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MARASCHINO  RUSSE 
1  C  Maraschino  cherries  %  C  nuts 

Flavor  Charlotte  Russe  with  Maraschino  and  fill  with  Mara- 
schino cherries,  sprinkle  nuts  on  top. 

MARSHMALLOWS  TOASTED 

Have  long  sharp  pointed  stick  and  run  through  marshmal- 
lows.  Holding  over  coals  or  fire  and  turning  stick  continually. 
Do  not  burn  and  marshmallows  will  be  brown  and  soft.  Eat  at 
once. 


-178— 


MERINGUES  AND  WHIPPED  CREAM 

3  egg-whites  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  powdered  sugar 

Beat  egg-whites,  add  sugar,  gradually,  then  vanilla.  Put  oil- 
ed paper  in  a  pan,  drop  meringue  on  paper,  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour  and  a  half.  Lift  with  cake  turner,  being  very  care- 
ful not  to  break.  Put  two  together,  whipped  cream  between  and 
on  top.  You  can  serve  just  one  person  with  whipped  cream  on 
top.     This  will  serve  four. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall 

MARSHMALLOW  DELIGHT 

Soak  1  pound  of  marshmallows  in  1  pint  of  heavy  cream 
over  night.  In  morning  whip  until  thick,  then  add  %  pound 
chopped  almonds  and  5  slices  of  Hawaiian  pineapple  cut  fine. 
Serve  in  parfait  glasses  with  whipped  cream.  Decorate  each 
glass  with  bits  of  marshmellows,  maraschino  cherries  and  angel- 
ica. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

MOONSHINE 

6  egg-whites  3  large  peaches 

12  T  powdered  sugar 

Beat  the  egg-whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  the 
sugar,  beating  not  less  than  20  min.  Then  beat  in  the  peaches, 
which  have  been  cut  in  tiny  pieces.  Set  on  the  ice  till  thorough- 
ly chilled  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  which  has  been  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 

MINT  DRY 

Pick  before  it  blossoms  and  wash  and  lay  out  on  paper  ana 
put  in  attic  when  dry,  put  in  glass  jar. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitney 

MINT  LEAVES 

1  G  leaves  1  C  water 

1  C  sugar 

Boil  to  a  soft  ball.  Add  leaves,  do  not  stir  until  thick.  Then 
stir  with  fork  carefully. 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross 

MOONSHINE 

6  egg-whites  1  t  vinegar 

1  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

Beat  whites  very  stiff,  add  sugar,  gradually  then  me  vinegar 
and  vanilla.  After  all  the  ingredients  are  in,  stir  as  little  as  pos- 
sible.    Paper  the  can,  do  not  grease.     Have  the  oven  hot  when 

—179— 


you  put  it  in  but  bake  slowly  about  20  min.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Put  grated  maple  sugar  on  top  of  the  whipped  cream. 
Moonshine  is  hard  to  make  and  also  expensive,  but  when  made 
right  it  is  delicious.     Everything  is  in  the  baking. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall 

NIAGARA  FOAM 

6  egg-whites  15  T  fine  sugar 

3  C  apple  pulp 

Press  cooked  apples  through  sieve  and  chill.  Beat  eggs 
stiff,  mix  all  together  and  chill,  serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with 
whipped  cream  on  top  and  green  candied  fruit. 

NUT  RINGS 

1  C  sugar  V2  t  rose  extract  or  lemon 

2  T  water  2  C  pecans 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  min.  Stir  into  this  pecans  cut  in  half, 
remove  and  stir  constantly  until  each  nut  is  covered.  Remove 
to  buttered  pans  and  cool.    Do  not  stir  until  nuts  are  added. 

NUT  STICKS 

1  C  brown  sugar  *4  t  B.  P. 

2  eggs  well  beaten  1  C  nut  meats  cut  small 
Vs  t  salt 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  20  min.     Cut  in  sticks.     Serves  8. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

'     ORANGES  BAKED 

Use  thin  skinned  oranges.  Cut  the  tops  off  %  down,  pull 
out  the  pith  and  fill  the  cavities  with  four  T  of  sugar  to  each 
orange.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  casserole,  fill  a  fourth  full  of  water, 
cover  and  bake  till  they  are  tender.  Remove  from  oven  and 
make  a  sauce  of  the  juices  in  the  pan  by  stirring  in  2  T  of  corn- 
starch, moistened  with  cold  water.  Put  a  half  t  of  butter  on  the 
top  of  each  orange.  Pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  return  to  the 
oven  uncovered  to  brown.     Serve  hot. 


ORANGE  DESSERT 

1-3  box  gelatine  1  lemon,  juice 

1-3  C  cold  water  1  C  orange  juice  and  pulp 

1-3  C  boiling  water  3  egg-whites 

1  C  sugar 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  soft,  then  pour  over  it  tne 
boiling  water.  Add  sugar,  juice  of  lemon  and  juice  and  pulp  of 
orange.  Set  on  ice  until  it  begins  to  harden,  then  add  the  egg- 
whites  beaten.  Beat  all  together  until  light  and  stiff.  Put  in 
cups  to  mold. 

C.  C. 


—180- 


ORANGE  FLOAT 

1  pt.  milk  1%   T  cornstarch 
%  C  sugar  1-10  t  salt 

2  'eggs  2  oranges 

Place  nearly  the  pint  of  milk  on  stove,  when  it  reaches  boil- 
ing point,  stir  in  the  two  egg-yolks,  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt, 
which  have  been  well  mixed  with  several  T  milk.  Let  this  boil 
good  stirring  it.  Remove  from  fire  and  while  this  cools  a  minute 
or  two,  grate  just  a  little  rind  in  dish  then  add  the  diced  oranges. 
Now  pour  the  custard  over  the  oranges  and  place  on  top  the  nice- 
ly beaten  whites,  which  have  been  sweetened  with  four  T  sugar 
and  flavored  with  the  grated  rind  or  any  extract.     Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Rorabaugh 

ORANGE  HAMRURG 

1  large  orange  3  eggs 

1  C  sugar 

Cook  in  double  boiler,  serve  with  cream. 

.  PEACHES  BAKED 

8  peaches  8  T  sugar 

32  cloves  2  t  butter 

Select  fine  peaches.  Place  in  boiling  water  3  min.,  then 
plunge  into  cold.  Remove  skin.  Leave  whole  and  stick  cloves 
into  peaches.  Place  in  deep  bake  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
dots  of  butter.  Add  boiling  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Nuts  may  be  added  if  desired.  Apples  and  pears  are  good  bak- 
ed this  way. 

PEACH  RALLS 

6  peaches  %  C  pecans 

n/2  C  Maraschino  cherries 

Pear  and  roll  in  sugar,  then  in  chopped  nuts  and  chopped 
cherries.  Set  on  ice  when  cold  serve  in  a  scooped  out  dish  of  al- 
mond ice  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

PEACH  PUFFS 

Pare  and  halve  fresh  ripe  peaches.  Beat  two  egg-whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  2  T  powdered  sugar,  y8  t  salt,  1  t  vanilla.  Heap 
the  meringue  in  the  peach  cases,  brown  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve 
cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Whitney 

PARADISE  PUDDING 

^4  lb-  blanched  almonds  chop-     1  doz.  marshmallows  cut  fine 

ped  Y2  doz.  macaroons  cut  fine 

2  doz.  candied  cherries     cut      1  pkg.  lemon  jello 
fine  1  pt.  boiling  water 

When  cold  whip  and  add  1  C  whipped  cream,  %  C  sugar  in 
cream.     Pour  over  the  above  mixture,  stir  until  firm. 

Teresa  L.  Comley. 

—181— 


PINEAPPLE  DESSERT 

1  can  pineapple,  diced  1  C  juice  and  water 

1  C  sugar  1  T  butter 

Boil  10  min. 

FILLING 

2-3  C  sugar  2  t  B.  P. 

i/2  C  milk 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  over 
top.     Bake  20  min.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 

PEACH  SOUFFLE 

6  peaches  uncooked  6  egg-whites 

1  C  powdered  sugar 

Peel  and  run  peaches  through  ricer,  stir  in  sugar,  and  whip 
eggs  very  light.  Mix  together  and  turn  into  dish.  Bake  10  or  15 
min. 

PEARS  IN  CANTALOUPE 

3  cantaloupe  12  pears 

Juice  1  lemon  %  C  sugar 

Cut  cantaloupe  in  halves,  fill  each  case  with  sliced  pears,  and 
sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 


PEERLESS  DESSERT 

1  box  gelatine  1  lb.  marshmallows 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  1  lb.  white  grapes 

y2  lb.  blanched   almonds  %  C  Maraschino  cherries 

Slice  marshmallow,  slice  grapes,  chop  cherries,  cut  almonds. 
Put  together  with  y2  pt.  whipped  cream  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

PINEAPPLE  MERINGUE 

1  doz.  Lady  Fingers  or  slices  of  2  T  flour 

sponge   cake  1   C  sugar 

1  can  grated  pineapple  3  eggs 
2%  C  milk  ^ 

Line  a  baking  dish  with  the  cake,  cover  this  with  the  pine- 
apple. Make  a  cream  as  follows:  milk,  flour,  sugar,  egg-yolks, 
cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  lumps. 
Flavor  if  desired,  pour  over  cake  and  pineapple.  Beat  whites 
into  stiff  meringue,  put  over  top.     Place  in  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 


-182- 


POTATO  CRUST  FOR  DUMPLINGS 

1  G  mashed  potato  2  T  butter 

1  C  milk  !/4  t  salt 

1  egg  V2  C  flour 

V2  t  B.  P. 

Mix  well,  roll,  cut  and  drop  around  apple,  peach  or  any  kind 
of  fruit.     Steam  or  bake,  use  more  flour  if  necessary  to  roll  well. 

SAUCE  FOR  ABOVE 

%  C  butter  V2  t  vanilla 

%  C  sugar  V2  t  cinnamon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flavor  and  chill  in  ice  box. 

PRUNES 

Prunes  cooked  and  seeds  removed  and  stuffed  with  pecans, 
served  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 

PRUNE  BUTTER 

1  qt.  prunes  1  t  allspice 

1  t  cinnamon  1  t  cloves 

1  C  sugar 

Soak  overnight,  stew  until  tender,  let  cool,  run  through  col- 
ander, add  sugar  and  spices,  boil  all  together  y2  hr. 

STEWED  PRUNES 

Y2  lb.  prunes  4  blades  of  mace 

1  qt.  water  1  t  lemon  juice 

y2  C  sugar 

Wash  prunes,  soak  overnight  in  cold  water  and  sugar,  boil 
in  same  water  with  Mace  and  lemon  juice  until  tender. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

1  lb.  prunes  y2  box  gelatine 

1  C  sugar  y2  t  vanilla 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly  and  soak  over  night.  In  the 
morning  cook  until  tender;  remove  the  stones;  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Add  sugar,  gelatine  after  it  has  been  soaked  in  a  % 
C  water  to  the  juice  in  which  the  prunes  have  been  cooked,  put 
on  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  over  prunes  and  mold,  serve 
with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 

RAISIN  PUFFS 

1  C  flour  1  C  raisins 

2  t  B.  P.  %  t  salt 
%  C  sugar                                           1  egg 

4  T  butter  1/2  C  milk 

Beat  egg  thoroughly.  Divide  into  6  jelly  glasses.  Place  in 
steamer.  Tie  cloth  over  steamer,  cover  so  water  will  not  drip 
into  puffs.  Water  under  steamer  must  boil  before  placing  glasses 
in  and  enough  water  so  as  to  not  add  water,  steam  1  hr.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

—183— 


REFRIGERATOR  CAKE 

1  lb.  macaroons  %  doz  eggs 

y2  lb.  almonds  blanched  and  1  lb.  powdered  sugar 

broken  not  too  fine  1  t  vanilla 

y2  lb.  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  beaten  yolks,  then 
broken  nuts,  lastly  beaten  whites — very  stiff — then  vanilla — 
beat  mixture  well.  Crumble  macaroons  and  cover  the  bottom 
of  square  cake  pan — line  first  with  oiled  paper — then  a  layer  of 
the  above  mixture  and  repeat  until  ingredients  are  used.  Put 
in  the  refrigerator  and  let  stand  30  hrs.  Then  melt  a  couple  of 
squares  of  Bakers  unsweetened  chocolate  and  pour  over  top — 
serve  in  squares  with  whip  cream — this  serves  16  good  portions. 

-Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 
RHUBARB 

2  lbs.  rhubarb  2  C  sugar 

Rhubarb  and  cut  into  small  pieces — put  into  double  boiler 
with  2  C  of  sugar  and  let  boil  until  tender. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

RHUBARB— ESCALLOPED 

2  C  rhubarb  1  C  sugar 

3  C  bread  crumbs 

Escallop  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  putting  a  layer  of 
each.  Last  layer  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  slow  oven  30  min. 
Serve  with  meats.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

RICE  AND  APRICOTS 

3  C  cooked  rice  1  can  apricots 

V.  C  sugar  y2  pecans  or  any  nuts  pistachio 

1  C  double  cream 

Cook  rice  until  dry — pour  in  large  dish  and  cover  with  apri- 
cots not  using  the  juice.  Then  on  top  of  this,  pour  stiff  whipped 
cream,  sugared,  covering  all  with  chopped  nuts.    Serve  cold. 

SALTED  NUTS 

1  lb.  nuts  1  pt.  water 

V-2  C  salt 

Boil  nuts  and  salt  in  water  8  min.  drain,  grease  pan  with 
either  butter  or  olive  oil  and  brown  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Spanger. 

SHORT  CAKE  DOUGH 

iy2  C  flour  1  t  B.  P. 

1  T  sugar  Milk 

1  T  butter  1  egg 

Berries 

Mix  ingredients,  add  milk  enough  to  make  a  drop  batter, 
last  add  beaten  egg.  If  your  wish  to  serve  individual  cakes,  bake 
in  gem  pans,  cut  in  two,  butter.  Pour  crushed  berries  over  and 
sauce.  C#  c 


-184— 


SAUCE  FOR  SHORT  CAKE 

2  C  sugar  V2  C  water 

Whipped  cream  1  T  whipped  cream 

Boil  to  a  syrup,  add  cream — add  this  when  serving  the  short 
cake. 

Mrs.  Smyth. 

SNOW  BALLS 

V2  C  butter  2  t  B.  P. 

Y2  C  sugar  %  C  milk 

2  C  flour  2  egg-whites 
%  t  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together.  Add  milk  and  flour  and 
B.  P.  and  salt.  Lastly,  the  beaten  egg-whites.  Steam  25  min.  in 
individual  cups. 

THE  SAUCE 

Make  a  hard  sauce.  Crush  strawberries  or  red  raspberries, 
mix  with  hard  sauce  or  jam  can  be  used. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

SNOW  CREAM 

4  egg-whites  1  t  vanilla 

4  T  powdered  sugar  1  pt.  whipped  cream 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  foamy,  then  add  gradually 
powdered  sugar,  beating  all  the  while,  then  beat  until  stiff  enough 
to  stand  alone.  Add  vanilla  and  stir  in  carefully  whipped  cream. 
Serve  in  small  glasses.    Enough  for  8  persons. 

C.  C. 

SNOW  SOUFFLE 

4  eggs  V2  t  vanilla 

2  T  sugar  1  C  whipped  cream 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  dry  froth  and  beat  in  gradu- 
ally the  sugar,  add  vanilla,  add  well  beaten  yolks  then  fold  in 
carefully  the  cream.  Turn  into  quart  pudding  dish  lightly  but- 
tered and  bake  in  hot  oven  12  min.    Serve  at  once — it  will  fall. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

1  pt.  boiling  water  %  C  sugar 

Three  T  corn  starch  wet  in  a  little  cold  water,  let  cook  a  few 
min.  until  perfectly  clear,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  stove, 
add  juice  of  half  lemon,  then  beat  slowly  into  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs.    Pour  into  individual  molds. 

SAUCE 

3  egg-yolks  1  C  milk 
1  C  sugar                                            1  t  vanilla 

Cook  milk  to  boiling  point  in  double  boiler,  add  beaten  eggs 
and  sugar.  Cook  until  a  smooth  custard.  This  will  serve  8 
people.  Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 


—185— 


STALE  CAKE 

Cover  stale  cake  with  enough  milk  to  moisten  and  bake. 
Make  sauce  of  eggs  beaten  separately  and  sugar. 

FORMULA  FOR  SAUCE 

3  eggs  1  C  sugar 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

STRAWBERRIES— ESCALLOPED 

1  pt.  cream  1  pt.  pineapple 

1  pt.  strawberries  %  C  powdered  sugar 

Escallop  Strawberries— whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Arrange  on  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  a  layer  of  pineapple,  add 
a  sprinkling  of  powdered  sugar  and  cover  with  the  whipped 
cream,  make  another  layer  with  the  strawberries,  sugar  and 
cream.  So  continue  the  alternate  layers  until  all  are  used  and 
there  is  a  pyramid  of  fruit  with  strawberries  last.  Heap  the 
cream  on  top  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

•       STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

2  qts.  berries  to  1  C  sugar 

Wash  and  pick  off  stems — cut  each  berry  in  two,  add  %  C 
of  sugar  and  let  stand  on  ice  2  hrs. 

STRAWBERRY  SUNSHINE 

Prepare  as  for  short  cake  and  place  between  layers  of  sun- 
shine cake.  A  bountiful  supply  of  stiff  whipped  cream  served 
on  top  and  between  each  layer. 

CRUST 

1  C  milk  y2  C  lard  and  butter 

2  T  flour  1  T  B.  P. 
%  C  flour  ys  t  salt 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  B.  P.  and  shortening.  Add  sugar  and  milk. 
Stir,  turn  on  floured  board,  bake  in  large  biscuit  pan,  butter — 
cut  in  4  parts  and  place  berries  between  each  layer. 

STRAWBERRY  WHIP 

1  qt.  strawberries  1  qt.  cream 

2  C  sugar  1  C  water 
1  box  gelatine 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water  and  heat;  when  cool  add  whipped 
cream.  When  it  begins  to  harden,  add  sugar  and  crushed  ber- 
ries. Fill  individual  glasses,  cover  with  whipped  cream  and 
whole  berries. 

Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 


TORTION  TART 

6  egg-whites  1  T  vinegar 

1  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  stiff  and  add  sugar  and  vanilla.     Have  2  pans 
greased  with  butter,  very  slow  oven. 


FILLING 

1  pt.  whipped  cream  1  C  maraschino  cherries 

1  C  nuts  %  C  sugar 

Cut  nuts  and  cherries,  mix  with  cream  and  sugar.  Put  be- 
tween layers  of  tart. 

UNIVERSITY  PUDDING 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  cold  water,  beat  egg-yolk  and  3  T  of  sugar 
together,  add  2  G  of  milk.  Beat  and  cook  till  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  gelatine,  let  cool — add  the  beaten  egg-whites.  When  about 
to  congeal,  add  the  fruit  and  turn  into  molds. 

FORMULA 

1  T  gelatine  3  T  sugar 

1/2  C  water  2  C  milk 

3  eggs  1  C  any  kind  of  fruit 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

WASHINGTON  CREAM  PIE 

Crust  1  C  flour 

6  eggs  1  C  sugar 

1  t  vanilla  2  t  lemon  juice 

Beat  egg-yolks  very  stiff,  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  lemon  juice. 
Beat  whites  very  stiff,  fold  half  the  whites  into  yolk  mixture 
then  half  the  flour,  then  remainder  of  whites  and  rest  of  flour. 
Bake  into  4  pie  crusts. 

FILLING 

1  T  lemon  juice  y2  C  flour 

2  C  milk  1  C  butter 

2  eggs  iy2  t  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  sugar,  flour  and  y2  C  milk  and  beat 
until  perfectly  smooth.  Put  1%  C  milk  in  double  boiler  when 
scalding  hot  add  above  mixture.  Beat  till  smooth.  When  cool 
add  vanilla  and  lemon  juice.    Chopped  nuts  may  be  added. 

—187— 


WICHITA  SPECIAL 

iy2  pt.  cream  1  C  powdered  sugar 

6  eggs  10  T  grated  chocolate 

2  T  corn  starch  12  bitter  almonds 

1  t  rose  water  %  t  vanilla 

1  oz.  citron  4  oz.  sweet  almonds 

Fruit  Charlotte  over  in  double  boiler,  boil  cream  over  slow 
fire  stir  in  slowly  the  well  beaten  egg-yolks  with  corn  starch, 
cook  10  min.,  stirring  constantly,  then  divide  mixture.  To  one- 
half  add  melted  chocolate,  simmer  3  min.,  take  off  fire  and  cool, 
then  blanch  bitter  almonds  and  sweet  almonds  and  pound  in 
mortar  with  enough  rose  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Add 
finely  chopped  cirton  and  powdered  sugar  and  stir  these  into 
the  other  one-half  of  cream  mixture,  simmer  3  min.,  set  aside 
to  cool  and  add  14  T  vanilla.  Cut  a  large  Angel  Food  cake  in 
slices  crosswise  half  in.  thick,  spread  1  slice  thickly  with  the 
chocolate  cream.  Put  another  slice  on  top  of  this  and  cover  with 
the  almond  cream;  dot  this  alternately,  piling  them  evenly  on 
a  china  dish  until  all  ingredients  are  used,  arrange  in  form  of 
Angel  cake  before  it  was  cut.  Have  ready  6  egg-whites  stiffly 
whipped,  add  6  T  powdered  sugar  and  with  a  spoon  heap  this 
all  over  top  and  sides  of  cake,  then  sift  powdered  sugar  over 
and  brown  in  oven,  and  use  any  preferred  cake  icing  on  top. 


—188- 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


Almond  Ice 

Angel  Parfait 

Apple  Whip 

Apricot  Ice  Cream 

Apricot  Mousse 

Baked  Alaska 

Baked  Apple  Ice  Cream 

Banana  Sherbet 

Biscuit  Glace 

Bisque  Ice  Cream 

Blackberry  Mold 

Cafe  Parfait 

Cannon  Balls 

Cantelope  Ice  Cream 

Cantelope  Ice  Cream 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

Caramel  Sauce,  Plain 

Caramel  Syrup 

Caramel  Nut  Sauce 

Cherry  Ice 

Cherry  Mousse 

Cherry  Parfait 

Chilled  Fruit 

Cranberry  Sherbet 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream 

Chocolate  Sauce  Smooth 

Custard    Soft    Boiled    for    Ice 

Cream 
Chocolate  Mousse 
Coffee  Mousse 
Cranberry    Ice    to    serve    with 

dinner  course 
Date  Ice  Cream 
Delmonico  Ice  Cream 
French  Ice  Cream 
Frozen  Roll 
Fruit  Milk  Sherbet 
Ginger  Ice  Cream 
Golden  Rod  Parfait 
Lemon  Ice 
Lemon  Ice 
Lemon  Punch 
Maple  Mousse 
Maple  Mousse 
Maple  Ice  Cream 
Maple  Parfait 
Maple  Sugar  Sherbet 
Milk  Sherbet 
Meringue  Glace 
Nesselrode  Pudding 
Nut  and  Raisin  Ice  Cream 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


Mrs.  Sp  angler. 

Mrs.  Robert  Campbell 


Mrs.  Robert  B.  Campbell. 


Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 
C.  C. 


Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 
Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 


Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 
C.  C. 


Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes. 


Mrs.  Charles  Smyth. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 
Margaret  Long  Stanley 
Mrs.  Howard  Norton 
Helen  Brooks  Hall 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon 


-192- 


Orange  Cream  Sherbet 
Orange  Mousse 
Orange  Souffle 
Peach  Bombe 
Peach  Cream 
Peach  Melba 
Peach  Parfait 
Pineapple  Frozen 
Pineapple  Ice 
Pistachio  Ice  Cream 
Pudding  Frozen 
Pyramids 

St.  Patricks  Ice  Cream 
Strawberries  Frozen 
Strawberry  Mousse 
Strawberry  Mousse 
Strawberry  Parfait 
Strawberry  Sherbet 
Strawberry  Ice 
Soldier  Boy  Coupe 
Sour  Ice  Cream 
Thanksgiving  Ice  Cream 
Three  Sixes 
Yellow-Moose 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream 
Whipped  Cream  Sauce 


•  Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 
Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 
Mrs.  M.  Murdock 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Noble 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 


-193— 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

Rombes  are  molds  lined  with  water  ice  and  filled  with 
cream  Parfait  or  Mousse  and  packed  in  freezer  4  hrs. 

Riscuits  are  partly  frozen  yellow  Parfait  to  which  egg- 
whites  are  added,  then  packed  in  small  boxes  or  molds  in 
freezer  for  2  or  3  hours. 

Coupes  are  served  in  tall  stemed  glasses  filled  with  a  layer 
of  ice  cream,  ice  and  whipped  cream,  with  a  bit  of  fruit  on  top 
or  nuts  may  be  added. 

French  Ice  Cream  is  frozen  custard. 

Ice  Cream  is  stirred  while  freezing.  Mousses  and  parfait 
are  frozen  without  stirring. 

Ices  are  made  from  fruit  juices,  sweetened,  and  water  added, 
sometimes  egg-whites  are  added. 

Mousse  is  frozen  without  stirring  the  freezer.  It  is  simply 
whipped  cream  flavored  and  molded.  It  takes  a  long  time  to 
harden — 4  hrs.    It  must  not  be  stirred  or  the  Mossy  effect  is  lost. 

Parfaits  are  composed  of  fruit  juices  sweetened,  egg-yolks, 
or  whites  and  whipped  cream,  packed,  not  stirred. 

Sherbet  or  Sorbets.  The  same  as  water  ice  with  egg-whites 
added. 

Souffles,  are  composed  of  fruit  or  flavoring  sweetened, 
whipped  cream  and  gelatine,  molded  packed  and  not  frozen 
as  hard  as  other  creams. 

Frozen  Fruits. 

Fruits  may  be  frozen  whole  or  run  thru  sieve  and  sugar  ad- 
ded. Packed  in  ice  1  hr.  are  delicious.  Skins  should  be  re- 
moved. 

Rerries  should  be  hulled  and  sugared.  Rananas  should  be 
sliced  and  peeled — add  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

Peaches  and  Pears  should  be  peared.  Stones  or  seeds  re- 
moved and  sugared;  halved.  Watermelon  or  Cantaloupe  cut  in 
squares  or  slices,  or  round  balls,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt. 

Iced  Fruits  may  be  dipped  first  in  beaten  egg-whites,  then 
in  sugar.  Repeat  the  process  then  pack  in  freezer  and  surround 
with  ice  3  hrs. 

Fruit  sauces  for  ice  cream,  Mash  and  sweeten  to  taste 
strawberries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  cherries,  peaches,  pine- 
apple or  other  fruits  and  serve  over  ice  cream. 

HOW  TO  PACK  THE  FREEZER 

"The  freezer  must  be  packed  carefully  and  accurately.  Have 
ready  a  basket  or  a  pan  of  ice  finely  and  evenly  crushed,  a  box 
of  coarse  rock  salt  and  a  dipper  or  "a  saucepan  holding  about  a 
pint.  Place  three  evenly  measured  dippers  of  crushed  ice  in 
the  freezer  tub,  packing  it  down  firmly.  Over  this  put  one 
evenly  measured  dipper  of  rock  salt.  Repeat  until  the  careful- 
ly measured  layers  of  ice  and  salt  reach  to  a  place  on  the  can 
higher  than  the  mixture  inside.  This  proportion  of  three  parts 
of  ice  to  one  part  of  salt  has  proven  to  be  the  best  for  getting 
a  fine-grained  ice  cream.    Do  not  put  in  your  ice  and  salt  with- 

—194— 


out  measuring  and  then  expect  to  get  a  perfectly  frozen  product. 
"The  freezer  may  be  left  for  about  five  minutes  after  being 
packed  while  the  ice  begins  to  melt  and  the  mixture  becomes 
chilled.  When  the  ice  and  salt  have  begun  to  work,  it  is  time  to 
turn  the  crank.  Begin  by  turning  it  very  slowly.  A  slow  song  on 
the  phonograph  makes  a  good  accompaniment,  for  the  slower 
the  freezer  crank  is  turned  for  the  first  10  min.  the  finer  grained 
will  be  the  product." 

FREEZING 

Water  ices  should  be  frozen  slowly.  If  milk  is  ice  cold, 
fruit  juice  will  not  curdle  it  when  added.  Turn  slowly  at  first 
then  increase  speed.  Cream  will  be  coarser  grained  if  freezer  is 
over  %  full. 

ALMOND  ICE 

6  T  Almond  Paste  1  egg-white 

V2  C  hot  water  3  drops  vanilla 

1 1/2  C  cold  water 

Dissolve  Almond  Paste  in  hot  water  until  smooth.  Add  egg 
beaten  until  stiff,  then  cold  water  and  flavor.    Freeze. 


ANGEL  PARFAIT 

%  C  sugar  2  C  whipping  cream 

%  C  water  1  T  vanilla 

2  eggs  3  T  whipped  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  water  3  min.  Pour  boiling  syrup  over  stiffly 
beaten  egg-whites,  beaten  continually,  whip  cream  stiff — add 
vanilla,  beat  all  together  and  freeze.  Serve  in  parfait  glasses 
with  a  layer  of  parfait  and  then  whipped  cream  alternate,  top- 
ping with  candied  cherry  and  preferred  flavor;  or  berries  or 
fruit  may  be  used. 


APPLE  WHIP 

2  egg-whites  Feat  egg-whites  stiff. 

x/-2  C  apple  sauce  Add  apple  sauce 

%  C  syrup  Pack  and  freeze. 

APRICOT  ICE  CREAM 

1  can  apricots  V2  C  sugar 

1  C  whipped  cream 

Cook  sugar  and  water  5  min.     A^M  strained  apricots  and 
add  enough  water  to  make  4  C  in  all.    Then  add  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dixon. 

APRICOT  MOUSSE.  Same  as  Cherry 
—195— 


BRICK  BAKED  ALASKA  ICE  CREAM 

1  qt.  ice  cream  1  very  hot  oven 

4  egg-whites 

Place  cream  on  very  cold  platter,  have  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff  and  cover  ice  cream  entirely.  Have  oven  at  maximum 
temperature  and  let  remain  5  min.  Remove  and  serve  at  once. 
Is  only  a  success  if  done  quickly  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Macaroons 
may  be  ground  and  placed  on  top  before  serving. 

BAKED  APPLE  ICE  CREAM 

Bake  and  run  apples  thru  sieve  and  add  sugar  and  cream, 
cinnamon  and  lemon  juice. 

Formula : 

6  apples  V-2  t  cinnamon 

1  qt.  cream  2  T  lemon  juice 

1  C  sugar 

BANANA  SHERBET 

3  oranges  1  C  sugar 

3  lemons  V2  C  water 

3  bananas  1  C  cream 

To  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  add  the  mashed 
bananas,  sugar  and  water,  when  partly  frozen,  add  the  cream. 

Mrs.  Spangler. 

BISCUIT  GLACE 

2  C  hot  water  6  egg-yolks 
2  C  sugar  1  pt.  cream 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  it  threads,  add  the 
beaten  egg-yolks,  cook  1  min.  and  beat  until  cold.  Chill  in 
freezer  and  add  1  pt.  cream  whipped  dry,  freeze  and  then  pack 
in  salt  and  ice.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM 

Is  made  by  the  addition  to  any  ice  cream  of  dried  and  ground 
crumbs  of  any  kind  of  cake.    1C  to  the  qt.  added  last. 

BLACKBERRY  MOLD 

1  qt.  blackberries  6  T  whipped  cream 

2  T  water  1/0  t  salt 
V2  C  sugar 

Stem  and  mash  berries  in  the  water  and  sugar — mix  with 
cream  and  freeze  4  hrs. 


—196- 


CAFE  PARFAIT 

V2  C  clear  strong  coffee  %  C  sugar 

1  pt.  whipped  cream 

Add  the  coffee  to  the  whipped  cream,  also  the  sugar,  and 
whip  until  stiff  enough  to  keep  in  shape.  Then  pack  in  freezer 
or  tin  can  with  equal  parts  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice. 

Mrs.  Roht.  B.  Campbell. 

CANNON  BALLS 

Freeze  cream  very  hard.  Dip  out  in  form  of  balls  with  a 
round  scoop — roll  in  pulverized  toasted  macaroons. 

CANTALOUPE  ICE  CREAM 

Add  to  1  qt.  French  Ice  Cream,  2  C  mashed  cantaloupes  or 
muskmelon  and  %  t  vanilla. 

CANTALOUPE  ICE  CREAM 

Ice  cream  served  in  %  of  a  cantaloupe,  ice  cold. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

Y2  C  granulated  sugar  3  pts.  cream 

1  pt.  milk  1  C  sugar 

Melt  the  %  C  of  sugar  in  an  iron  skillet  and  when  boiling, 
and  smoking  hot,  pour  into  it  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  or  it  will 
crystallize.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  then  add  1  C  sugar  and  1  qt. 
cream,  mix  well  and  freeze.  Remove  the  dasher,  stir  in  the  re- 
maining pt.  of  cream  whipped  stiff,  cover  tightly  and  pack  with 
ice  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

1  pt.  milk  1%  t  grated  chocolate 

1  pt.  cream  1  C  sugar 

3  eggs  y2  C  water 

Dissolve  sugar  with  water,  then — not  touching  it —  let  boil 
to  a  golden  brown,  scald  the  milk  and  turn  slowly  on  beaten 
eggs,  add  chocolate  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  till  cus- 
tard coats  the  spoon,  then  add  hot  caramel,  when  cold  add 
cream  whipped.    Freeze.  C.  C. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE— PLAIN 
May  be  made  without  the  nuts. 

CARAMEL  NUT  SAUCE 

1  C  sugar     .  1  C  pecans 

%  €  boiling  water  3  T  cream 

Cook  sugar  until  it  browns;  add  boiling  water,  then  broken 
pecans  and  cream. 


-197- 


CARAMEL  SYRUP 

1  C  boiling  water  1  C  sugar 

Put  sugar  in  hot  stew  kettle  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon  un- 
til sugar  is  melted — add  boiling  water  and  simmer. 

CHERRY  ICE 

1  can  cherries  1    C  sugar 

2  C  water  1  lemon 

Boil  water  and  sugar  10  min.,  then  cool,  add  lemon  juice 
and  cherries  chopped  fine  and  juice.    Freeze. 

CHERRY  MOUSSE 

2  C  cherry  juice  1  t  lemon  juice 

1  T  boiling  water  1  C  sugar 

2  C  whipped  cream 

Mix  same  as  chocolate  mousse,  adding  sugar  to  fruit  before 
cream  is  added. 

CHERRY  PARFAIT 
Same  as  Strawberry  Parfait. 

CHILLED  FRUIT 

1  small  bottle  of  red  cherries         2  slices  of  pineapple 
Yo  lb.  white  grapes — seeded  1  C  pineapple  juice 

2  oranges — large  2  T  sugar 

Cut  oranges  and  pineapple  in  small  pieces,  add  sugar  to  pine- 
apple juice  and  boil  to  a  syrup.  Pour  over  fruit.  Put  in  freezer 
and  pack  with  ice,  not  salt.    Serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

CRANBERRY  SHERBET 

1  qt.  stewed  cranberries  which  have  been  put  through  a 
colander.  Add  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  1  lemon  and  1  lb. 
sugar.  Pack  and  freeze  to  a  mush  then  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs.    Finish  freezing. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM 

2  squares  of  chocolate  %  C  sugar 

iy2  C  milk  or  14  T  mint 

V2  t  vanilla 

Boil  5  min.,  can  and  set  in  ice  box.  This  can  also  be  used 
for  an  iced  chocolate  drink  by  adding  cream. 


-198- 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE— SMOOTH 

1-3  C  cocoa  2  C  sugar 

1  C  boiling  water  %  t  vanilla 

Dissolve  cocoa  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  boil  5  min.  Cool 
and  add  vanilla.  Seal  in  jar  and  keep  cool.  Makes  1  pt.  and 
keeps  indefinately.  Is  good  to  use  for  cold  chocolate  drink,  by 
adding  cream. 

All  Mousse  is  made  the  same. 


SOFT  BOILED  CUSTARD  USED  AS  ICE  CREAM  - 

1  C  milk  2  T  sugar 

1  egg  Vs  t  salt 

10  drops  vanilla 

Heat  milk  scalding  hot  in  double  boiler.  Add  sugar  and 
salt  to  egg  and  beat  moderately.  Pour  hot  milk  slowly  in  to  egg. 
Return  to  double  boiler,  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  spoon 
when  lifted  from  mixture  is  coated.  Add  vanilla  after  custard 
is  cooked.  When  cold  add  1  C  double  cream.  For  6  pts.  ice 
cream  uses  6  times  above  recipt  and  4  C  maple  syrup  or  caramel- 
ized sugar  and  6  C  of  double  cream. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE 

1  qt.  cream  1  T  boiling  water 

2  squares  chocolate  1  C  sugar 

Whip  cream,  melt  chocolate  in  water,  add  sugar,  boil  and 
stirring,  pour  over  whipped  cream  cold,  mix  and  freeze. 


COFFEE  MOUSSE 

1  pt.  cream  14  C  sugar 

%  C  coffee,  strong 

Stir  together  after  whipping  the  cream,  then  turn  into  mold, 
cover  with  oiled  paper  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  4  to  1,  cover 
tightly  with  newspapers.    Freeze  4  hrs.    Serves  6  people. 

C.  C. 

CRANBERRY  ICE 

To  serve  with  dinner  course. 

3%  C  water  1V2  G  sugar 

1  qt.  cranberries 

Cook  cranberries  with  water.  Strain,  add  sugar.  Set  aside 
to  cool,  freeze.  This  will  be  a  good  half  gallon  when  frozen,  add 
the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  if  liked. 


DATE  ICE  CREAM 

5  eggs  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  sugar  2  C  milk 

1  qt.  cream  V2  C  dates 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  milk,  vanilla  and  rich  cream.  Chop 
dates  very  fine,  mix  well  and  freeze. 

DELMONICO  ICE  CREAM 

1  pt.  milk  1  pt.  cream 

5  eggs  1  t  flavor 

1  C  sugar 

Make  milk,  eggs  and  sugar  into  a  cooked  custard,  add  cream 
and  flavor  and  freeze. 

FRENCH  ICE  CREAM 

1  C  sugar  Vi  t  salt 

1  C  scalded  milk  1  t  butter 

la/2  C  whipped  cream  3  egg-yolks 
1  T  flavoring 

Pour  milk  over  beaten  egg-yolks,  sugar  and  salt,  cook  5 
min.  Add  butter,  if  lumpy  or  coarse  strain  thru  sieve  and  beat 
until  cold.    Add  whipped  cream  and  flavor. 

FROZEN  ROLL 

1  qt.  plain  ice  cream  %  C  almonds 

%  C  pistachio  nuts  %  C  raisins,  seeded 

Make  ice  cream  by  any  desired  plain  recipe,  reserve  1-3  for 
the  center  of  the  roll,  flavor  the  remainder  with  nuts  pounded 
to  a  paste.  Line  mold  with  this  mixture.  To  the  other  reserved 
plain  cream  add  raisins,  ground  and  sweetened  and  fill  the 
center  of  the  roll  with  this — cover  the  top  with  the  lining  mix- 
ture.   Pack  in  salt  and  ice  4  hrs. 


FRUIT  MILK  SHERBET 

3  qts.  milk  1  small  can  pineapple,  grated 

6  lemons  1  pt.  canned  cherries 

2  pts.  sugar 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  lemons  in  sugar,  put  on  stove  until  dis- 
'solved,  take  off  and  cool,  add  pineapple  and  cherries.  Put  the 
milk  in  freezer  and  turn  crank  until  cold  or  chilled  then  add  the 
sugar,  lemon  juice,  cherries,  and  pineapple. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jobes. 


-200- 


GINGER  ICE  CREAM 

1  C  milk  1  C  sugar 

3  C  whipped  cream  1%  preserved  ginger 
1  T  lemon  juice  1  t  vanilla 

Mix  well  together  adding  the  ginger  chopped  very  fine  and 
freeze. 

LEMON  ICE 
1  pt.  sugar  4  lemons 

1  pt  water  1  orange 

y±  box  gelatine 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  thin  syrup.  Dissolve  gelatine  in 
water.  Add  juice  of  lemons  and  orange  and  add  enough  water  to 
make  2  quarts. 

Mrs.  Charles  Smyth. 

LEMON  ICE 

6  lemons  1  orange 

4  C  sugar  4  egg-whites 
6  C  water 

Prepare  the  juices,  sugar  and  water  as  for  lemonade.  Set 
in  the  ice  box  to  chill  for  an  hour  or  more.  Freeze  until  it  seems 
to  turn  a  little  hard.  Now  put  in  as  quickly  as  possible  the 
egg-whites  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

LEMON  PUNCH 

12  lemons  1  pt.  grape  juice 

4  C  sugar  1  qt.  tea 

4  qt.  water  x/o  pt.  mint  leaves 

Eoil  the  sugar  with  1  qt.  of  water,  let  it  cool,  add  the  grated 
rind  of  2  and  juice  of  all  the  lemons,  add  tea,  grape  juice,  ice. 
Serve  with  a  mint  leaf  in  each  sherbet  cup.  This  will  serve  60 
cups.  Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

6  whole  eggs  or  yolks  of  8  eggs 
1%  cups  of  maple  syrup 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  like  custard.  Let  cool.  Add  1% 
pints  of  cream  whipped.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  4  hrs. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

4  eggs  1  C  maple  syrup 

1  pt.  whipping  cream 

Boil  syrup  5  minutes  and  then  add  to  beaten  yolks.  Put  on 
stove  and  just  heat.  Cool.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  add  to  them 
the  whipped  cream.  Beat.  Add  to  this  yolks  and  syrup  mix- 
ture. Mix  well.  Pack  in  mold  5  hours  in  cracked  ice  and  salt. 
This  makes  almost  a  quart.  Margaret  Long  Stanley. 


-201- 


GOLDEN  ROD  PARFAIT 

1  C  sugar  Vs  t  salt 

]/4  C  water  5  egg-yolks 

1  T  vanilla  2  C  whipped  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  min.  pour  over  beaten  egg-yolks 
slowly,  stirring — put  in  double  boiler,  add  salt  and  cook  until 
spoon  is  coated.  Remove  and  beat  until  cold — add  whipped 
cream  and  vanilla.    Pack  4  hrs. 

Mrs.  Charles  Smyth. 


MAPLE  ICE  CREAM 

1%  C  maple  syrup  2  C  cream 

4  eggs 

Cook  the  syrup  and  the  beaten  egg-yolks  together  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  When  cold,  add  cream,  and  freeze,  when 
nearly  frozen,  add  the  egg-whites.    Will  serve  6. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 


MAPLE  SUGAR  SHERBET 

8  egg-yolks  1  C  maple  sugar 

1  pt.  whipped  cream 

Beat  egg-yolks  thoroughly  and  pour  over  them  boiling 
maple  sugar,  beating  all  the  time  to  make  it  smooth,  let  cool, 
then  add  1  pt.  of  whipped  cream  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


MILK  SHERBET 

4  lemons  1  C  whipped  cream 

1  C  sugar  1  qt.  milk 

4  egg-whites 

Grate  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon  into  milk  and  let  it  come  to 
boil,  and  cook  2  min.  Cool  and  put  into  freezer,  turn  2  min.  then 
add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  mixed.  Turn  until  nearly  frozen,  then 
open  and  add  egg-whites  well  beaten  and  whipped  cream.  Re- 
pack and  turn  until  done. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


MERINGUE  GLACE 

Divide  egg-shaped  Meringue  into  two  parts,  fill  the  centers 
with  ice  cream  or  mousse  and  put  together  to  resemble  egg. 

—202— 


NESSLRODE  PUDDING 

i/o  lb.  almond  paste  V2  lb.  candied  fruit 

1  pt.  cream  1  T  vanilla 

1  pt.  can  pineapple  2  C  water 
10  egg-yolks  1  C  sugar 
30  small  chestnuts  or  pecans  M  t  salt 

2  T  grape  juice 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  pineapple  juice  20  min.  Blanch  nuts 
and  pound  to  a  paste,  rub  almond  paste  smooth.  Beet  egg-yolks, 
stir  into  the  syrup ;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Beat 
over  pan  of  cold  water  10  min.  Mix  nuts  and  paste  with  the 
cream.  Add  the  candied  fruit.  Pineapple  cut  fine.  Mix  with 
cooked  mixture.  Freeze  as  Ice  Cream.  Garnish  with  whip 
cream  and  preserved  cherries. 

NUT  AND  RAISIN  ICE  CREAM 

1  pt.  cream  1  C  raisins 

1  pt.  milk  1  C  pecans 

3  C  sugar  %  t  vanilla 

Grind  raisins  and  nuts.  Cover  with  milk  and  sugar  and 
warm.    Put  cream  in  freezer.    Freeze  %  and  add  mixture. 

ORANGE  CREAM  SHERBET 

2  egg-whites  2  C  orange  juice 
2  C  sugar  1  orange 

2%  boiling  water  %  C  lemon  juice 

2%  C  double  cream  2-3  C  powdered  sugar 

Cook  sugar  and  water  5  min.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  1 
orange,  2  C  of  orange  juice  and  lemon  juice,  turn  into  freezer 
and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Whip  cream  until  stiff,  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  eggs  and  add  to  frozen  mixture  and  finish  freezing. 

ORANGE  MOUSSE 

Juice  6  oranges  1  C  minced  pecans 

Juice  1  lemon  1  C  sugar 

1%  C  whipped  cream  1  T  boiling  water 

Add  sugar  to  fruit  before  adding  cream,  mix,  and  freeze  as 
for  chocolate. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE 

6  oranges  4  eggs 

W2  C  sugar 

Beat  eggs  separate  and  stiff.  Cube  oranges — add  sugar, 
mix  all  together  and  serve  as  a  breakfast  dish. 

PEACH  BOMBE 

Line  a  mold  with  peach  ice  and  fill  with  vanilla  ice  cream, 
sprinkle  chopped  pecans  thru  and  grated  macaroons  on  top 
when  ready  to  serve. 


-203- 


PEACH  CREAM 

12  large  peaches  1  pt.  water 

2  C  sugar  3  egg-whites,  beaten 

Beat  egg-whites.  Rub  peaches  through  a  colander  and  stir 
all  ingredients  together.    Freeze  like  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  H'.  Black. 

PEACH  MELBA— KANSAS 

Place  halves  of  canned  peaches  cold,  on  a  mound  of  ice 
cream  placed  on  a  round  cut  of  sponge  cake.  Whip  cream  on 
top  of  sponge  cake.  Topping  all  with  minced  peaches  and  a 
maraschino  cherry. 

PEACH  PARFAIT 
Same  as  Strawberry  Parfait. 

PINEAPPLE— FROZEN 

1  can  grated  pineapple  or  3  lemons 

1  fresh  pineapple  grated  1  orange 

1  qt.  water  1   egg-white 

2  C  sugar  2  T  powdered  sugar 

Add  %  C  sugar  to  the  pineapple,  cook  slowly  20  min.  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  cool.  Boil  water  and  remaining  sugar 
with  chipped  rind  of  %  lemon  10  min.  Strain,  when  cold,  add 
lemon  and  orange  juice.  Turn  into  freezer.  When  frozen,  re- 
move dasher  and  add  pineapple,  then  stir  in  egg-whites  beaten 
to  stiff  meringue  with  the  powdered  sugar.  Repack  freezer  and 
let  stand  for  1  hr.  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  3  lemons 

1  qt.  water  4  egg-whites 

3  C  sugar  1  C  cream 

Chop  pineapple  rather  fine.  Boil  sugar  and  water  5  min. 
Cool.  When  cool  add  lemon  juice.  Put  in  freezer  and  when 
partly  frozen  add  stiffly  beaten  eggs  and  1  C  of  sweet  cream.  Any 
kind  of  fruit  juice  may  be  used,  or  nuts  may  be  added  chopped 
fine.    If  sour  fruit  add  more  sugar. 

PISTACHIO  ICE  CREAM 

4  C  light  cream  or  1  C  sugar 

3  C  heavy  1  T  flavoring — almond,  vanilla 

1   C  milk  1/4  t  salt 

%  C  Pistachio  nuts  1  C  almonds 

coloring 

Chop  the  nuts  fine — mix  all  the  ingredients — color  a  deli- 
cate green  and  freeze. 

You  can  with  good  result  substitute  %  C  pecans  and  1  T  pista- 
chio for  y2  C  pistachio  nuts. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

—204-  - 


PUDDING— FROZEN 

1  pt.  water  1  qt.  cream 

1  lb.  sugar  Fruit 

6  egg-yolks  Orange  juice 

Nuts 

Boil  water  and  sugar,  add  6  egg-yolks  beaten  very  lightly, 
beat  over  fire  1  min.  Take  from  fire  and  beat  until  cold.  Add 
cream  and  freeze.  Add  the  fruit  and  nuts  when  it  begins  to 
freeze. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

PYRAMIDS 

Freeze  ice  cream  very  stiff,  scoop  out  with  lifter  that  forms 
a  cone  shape  and  roll  in  finely  chopped  pecans  or  almonds. 

ST.  PATRICK'S  ICE  CREAM 

6  C  milk  2  egg-whites 

3  C  sugar  1  egg-yolk 

1/2  C  flour  V4  t  salt 

2  C  cream  3  C  nuts — 1  pecan,  2  almonds 
1  t  Pistachio  Ex.  1  t  almond  ex. 

GREEN  FRUIT  COLORING 

Blend  into  a  soft  custard  the  sugar,  flour,  milk,  eggs  and 
salt  by  bringing  5V2  C  milk  to  the  boiling  point — add  the  re- 
maining y2  C  milk,  sugar,  flour,  eggs  and  salt,  which  have  been 
thoroughly  mixed.  Let  all  boil  together  for  3  min.  Allow  to 
cool,  whip  the  cream  and  add  flavor,  color,  add  nuts,  chopped 
fine  and  freeze.    You  have  3%  qts.  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh. 

STRAWBERRIES— FROZEN 

1  qt.  strawberries  1   lb.  sugar 
Juice  2  lemons                                  1  qt.  water 

Add  sugar,  water  and  lemon  juice  to  berries,  let  stand  2  hrs. 
Mash  berries,  mix  thoroughly  and  freeze  slowly  or  do  not  mash 
berries  but  just  chill  by  packing  in  freezer  1  hr. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE 

2  C  whipping  cream  2  C  mashed  strawberries 
1  C  powdered  sugar 

Whip  cream  stiff,  add  sugar  and  berries,  turn  into  a  mold 
and  cover  with  oiled  paper — cover  tight,  pack  in  4  parts  ice 
and  1  part  salt,  let  stand  3  hrs.  Any  preferred  berries  may  be 
used. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE 

1  qt.  crushed  strawberries  1  C  sugar 

1  pt.  whipped  cream 

Mix  and  pack  in  freezer  3  hrs. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 


-205- 


STRAWBERRY  PARFAIT 

1  C  sugar  Juice  of  one  orange 

1  C  mashed  fruit  1  pt.  heavy  cream 

Vo  C  water  5  drops  almond  extract — 
2~egg-whites  whipped 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads  and  pour  slowly, 
beating  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites.  Mix  orange  juice 
and  fruit  together  and  beat  in  the  egg-white  mixture.  Stir 
quickly  until  cold  and  then  stir  in  the  cream  and  almond.  Pour 
into  a  mold,  cover  with  wax  paper,  and  put  on  the  lid.  Pack  in 
ice  and  salt  for  4  hrs.  If  canned  sweet  fruit  is  used,  use  only 
%  C  sugar. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE 

1  box  berries  1  C  water 

1  C  sugar  Juice  of  one  lemon 

Crush  the  berries  and  run  through  sieve.  Add  sugar  and 
water  until  dissolved.  Cool,  add  to  berries  and  juice  of  lemon 
and  freeze. 

Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET 

1  qt.  milk  1  2-3  pt.  sugar 

1   pt.  whipped  cream  2  lemons,  juice 

2%  boxes  strawberries  Vi  t  salt 

SOLDIER  BOY  COUPE 

Fill  tall  glasses  with  alternate  layers  of  vanilla  cream,  chop- 
ped cherries,  whipped  cream,  topping  all  with  a  mound  of 
cherries.  A  small  flag  stuck  in  the  top  makes  a  patriotic  deco- 
ration. 

SOUR  ICE  CREAM 

I  C  sugar  Juice  2  lemons 

llA  C  sour  cream  3  bananas 

Dissolve  sugar  in  lemon  juice,  then  mix  with  cream,  whipped. 
Be  careful  not  to  whip  enough  to  make  butter.  Beat  in  the 
bananas  mashed.    Freeze. 


THANKSGIVING  ICE  CREAM 

Scoop  out  the  half  of  a  pumpkin  and  fill  with  ice  cream, 
colored  with  yellow  vegetable  coloring,  stick  in  almonds  to  re- 
semble seeds,  and  serve  on  large  platter  with  pumpkin  vines. 

—206— 


THREE  SIXES 

3  lemons  3  C  sugar 

3  oranges  3  C  water 

3  bananas  3  egg-whites 

To  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  add  the  mashed 
bananas,  sugar  and  water,  when  partly  frozen  add  the  egg-whites 
well  beaten  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Noble. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 

1  qt.  cream  1  T  vanilla 

1  pt.  milk  Mix  and  freeze 
1%  C  sugar 

YELLOW  MOOSE 

7  egg-yolks  1  pt.  heavy  cream 

1  C  powdered  sugar  2  T  strong  vanilla 

Reat  eggs  well,  then  add  powdered  sugar  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  till  thick — about  20  min.  Stirring  almost  con- 
stantly. Add  flavoring  and  cream  whipped.  Pack  in  salt  and 
ice  five  hours.    Will  serve  8. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE 

2  T  butter  1  t  lemon  juice 
%  C  powdered  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

1  egg  1  t  cinnamon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  beaten,  vanilla  and  lemon. 
Then  cream  whipped,  sprinkle  cinnamon  over  top. 


-207- 


^PIES  « 


PIES 


Apple  Pie 
Apple  Cobbler 
Apple  Cream  Pie 
Apricot  Pie 
Banana  Pie 
Blackberry  Pie 
Boston  Cream  Pie 
Butter  Scotch  Pie 
Caramel  Pie 
Cheese  Pie 
Cherry  Pie 
Chess  Pie 
Chiffon  Pie  filling 
Chocolate  Pie 
Chocolate  Pie 
Currant  Pie 

Custard  Pie 

Custard  Apple  Pie 

Cream  Pie 

Cream  Pie 

Cocoanut  Pie 

Delicious  Pie 

Golden  Sauce  for  Lemon  Pie 

Gooseberry  Pie 

Huckleberry  Pie 

Lemon  Pie 

Lemon  Pie  with  Milk 

Lemon  Pie 

Lemon  Custard  Pie 

Lemon  Sponge  Pie 

Loganberry  Pie 

Macaroon  Pie 

Meat  Pie  Crust 

Mince  Meat 

Mince  Meat 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

Mock  Mince  Meat 

Napoleons 

Orange  Pie 

Orange  Pie 

Peach  Custard  Pie 

Pearless  Lemon  Pie 

Patties 

Peach  Cobbler 

Peach  Mint  Pie 

Peach  Pie 

Philadelphia  Butter  Pie 

Pie  Crust 

Pineapple  Pie 


Mrs.  Robert  B.  Campbell 


Mrs.  Ralph  Millison 
Mrs.  E.  R.  Spangler 
Mrs.  Baldwin 

Mrs.  B.  E.  Zartman 
Mrs  Harold  McEwen 
Mrs.  Robert  B.  Campbell 
C.  C. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  Finley  Ross 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

Mrs.  Robert  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 
Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  O.  G.  Hutchison 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 
Mrs.  G.  C.  Purdue 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley 

Mrs.  F.   G.   Smyth 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Geo.  Steel 


C.  C. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 
Mrs.  G.  C.  Purdue 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

Mrs.  Ralph  Millison 


—210— 


Pineapple  Pie  Mrs.  Geo.  Steel 

Preserve  Pie 

Puff  Paste 

Mrs.  Farmer's  Pumpkin  Pie  Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

Pumpkin  Pie  Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen 

Raisin  Pie 

Raisin  Pie  C.  C. 

Raisin  Pie  Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 

Raisin  Pie  Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 

Rhubarb  Pie  Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

Rhubarb  Pie  Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Rhubarb  Pie  Mrs.  Frank  Harryman 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 

Tarts  and  Tartlets 

Vinegar  Pie 

White  Pie  Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes 


-21 


METHOD  OF  PIE  MAKING 

There  are  four  distinct  ways  of  mixing  pie  crust. 

1 — Cutting  with  one  silver  knife. 

2 — Cutting  with  two  silver  knives  in  opposite  directions. 

3 — Mixing  with  finger  tips. 

4 — Using  both  knife  and  fork. 

The  method  with  finger  tips  is  objectionable  on  account  of 
the  fingers  heating  the  ingredients.  All  things  must  be  ice  cold  to 
insure  good  crust. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients.  Then  cut  the  fat  into  the  mix- 
ture by  any  of  the  above  methods,  until  the  flour  seems  per- 
fectly smooth.  Then  sprinkle  ice  water  evenly  over  the  mixture, 
use  a  fork  to  stir  it  in  so  that  all  the  flour  is  taken  up  with  the 
water.  If  it  crumbles,  cool  the  hands  on  ice,  and  quickly  take  up 
the  dough  and  press  together.  Flour  rolling-board  lightly.  Take 
%  of  dough  for  lower  crust,  roll  quickly  and  in  one  direction 
about  one-eighth  inch  thick,  spread  on  pie  tin,  do  not  stretch,  fit 
in  closely  and  cut  rim  with  knife.  Put  in  desired  filling  and  roll 
top  crust,  cutting  a  few  gashes  or  prickling  with  a  fork  to  let 
steam  escape.  Wet  lower  crust  around  the  edge  and  put  on  top 
crust,  pressing  edges  firmly  together  and  trim.  The  edges  may  be 
crimped  by  pressing  with  tines  of  a  fork,  or  with  spoon  handle. 


PIE  CRUST  RECIPE  I 

2  T  lard 

1  C  flour 

%  t  salt 

3  T  ice  water 

PIE  CRUST  RECIPE  II 

iy4  C  flour     • 

V2  C  butter 

V4  t  salt 

24  C  ice  water 

PIE  CRUST  RECIPE  III 

2  C  flour  2-3  C  equal  parts  lard  and  but- 

V2  t  R.  P.  ter 

V2  t  salt  6  T  ice  water 

All  utensils  should  be  cold. 
Handle  as  little  as  possible. 

One  secret  of  crisp  pie  dough  is  in  using  as  little  water  as 
possible. 

OVEN  TEMPERATURES 

A  slow  oven — in  five  minutes  glazed  paper  will  brown. 

A  medium  oven — in  three  minutes  glazed  paper  will  brown. 

A  hot  oven — in  two  minutes  glazed  paper  will  brown. 

—212— 


TESTING   OVEN 

Sprinkle  flour  over  inside  of  oven.  If  light  brown  in  three 
minutes  with  the  door  shut,  oven  is  right,  if  burned,  oven  is  too 
hot. 

The  reason  for  having  things  ice  cold  in  pie  making,  is  that 
it  will  then  raise  to  the  maximum  degree  in  the  oven. 

Pie  crust  must  be  rolled  only  one  way,  as  rolling  both  to  and 
from,  breaks  the  air  globbules  and  the  rising  quality  is  lessened. 

To  keep  crust  from  puffing  up  when  baking,  turn  one  pan 
over  the  other. 

In  mixing,  if  material  should  be  warm,  use  a  little  less  water. 

Cook  pies  in  medium  oven,  that  browns  paper  in  three  min- 
utes. 

To  keep  left  over  pie  dough,  wrap  in  oiled  paper,  and  place 
in  ice  box. 

Crisco  makes  a  flaky  crust.  Butter  makes  a  better  crust,  not 
likely  to  break  and  more  tasty. 

To  bake  under  crust.  Turn  the  pie  tin  upside  down,  put 
crust  on  outside  of  bottom,  bake  until  just  beginning  to  brown, 
take  out  and  put  in  inside  of  pan  for  lower  crust. 

For  liquid  pie  filling  always  partly  bake  under  crust. 

Pastry  flour  is  made  of  winter  wheat.  Good  pastry  flour  re- 
tains prints  of  fingers  on  flour  when  squeezed.  Use  1^  T  less  of 
bread  flour  to  the  cup  than  of  pastry  flour. 

Small  tarts  or  pies  may  be  made  by  baking  dough  on  outside 
of  tart  pans,  Gem  pans,  or  muffin  pans. 

For  luncheons  or  picnics  make  individual  pies. 

If  a  cream  pie  or  meringue  just  baked  is  set  at  once  into  a 
cold  place  it  is  apt  to  become  watery.  Keep  it  in  the  kitchen 
until  cool. 

When  custard  pies  are  cooked  too  fast,  the  custard  will  fall 
apart  and  become  watery. 

To  prevent  fruit  pies  from  boiling  over  while  baking,  add  a 
T  of  corn  starch  to  the  fruit.  Sweeten  fruit  to  taste,  add  corn 
starch  and  heat  before  putting  on  crust. 

Fruit  Pies  require  three  C  fruit  to  each  pie. 

Puff  Paste  will  rise  to  double  its  thickness. 

When  making  pies,  cake  or  bread  try  a  wire  potato  masher 
to  mix  the  flour  and  shortening,  or  to  mix  the  sugar  and  butter. 

Corn  starch  must  cook  much  longer  than  the  flour  in  fillings. 

Meringues  become  watery  if  cooked  too  fast. 

Meringue : 
1  T  powdered  sugar  1  egg-white 

Beat  egg-white  well,  add  sugar.    Flavor  if  desired. 

When  eggs  will  not  whip  add  y±  t  salt  to  each  egg.  This 
lowers  the  temperature  of  the  eggs.  Warm  eggs  will  not  beat 
well. 


-213- 


APPLE  PIE 

Fill  lower  half  of  pie  crust  (cooked)  with  pared  and  finely 
sliced  juicy  apples.  Cover  with  %  C  sugar,  3  T  butter  dotted  in 
1-8  nutmeg  grated,  1  t  flour  and  3  T  water.  Cover  with  upper 
crust,  pinch  the  edges  closely  together  and  bake. 

APPLE  COBBLER 
Refer  to  Peach  Cobbler 

APPLE  CREAM  PIE 

2  C  mashed  apple  sauce  4  egg-whites 

%  C  sugar  1  T  cinnamon 

Vs  t  salt  1  T  lemon  juice 
y2  C  cream 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  flavor,  sugar,  salt,  cream  and  sauce.  Place 
between  layers  in  two  crust  pie  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  By 
half  baking  the  undercrust  before  putting  in  a  liquid  filling,  it 
will  not  make  it  soggy. 

APRICOT  PIE 

1  pt.  apricots  V2  C  sugar 

Vi  C  juice 

Run  apricots  through  ricer  and  mix  sugar  and  juice — if 
canned  apricots.  If  fresh  apricots  are  used,  pare  and  cut  in  slices, 
make  syrup  of  sugar  and  2  T  of  water,  cover  apricots.  Place 
between  the  two  crusts  of  pie  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

BANANA  PIE 

1-3  C  sugar  1  C  milk 

2  egg-yoiks  V8  t  salt 

yL»  T  lemon  juice  V±  C  cream 

3  T  flour  1  large  banana 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  flour  mixed  together,  and 
the  beaten  yolks,  and  salt.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler  stirring  while  it  thickens.  Cool  and  add  the  cream,  then 
lemon  juice,  and  sliced  banana,  then  turn  into  baked  crust.  Cover 
with  meringue,  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE 

1  qt.  ripe  blackberries  2  T  butter 

•3i  C  sugar 

Cook  undercrust  one-half  way  done.  Melt  sugar  and  butter. 
Mix  with  berries  and  pour  into  undercrust.  Cover  with  top  crust 
and  cook  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 


-214- 


BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 

Cake  Part  Filling 

3  eggs  1  C  sugar 

1  C  sugar  2  C  milk 

1  C  flour  3  eggs 

3  T  milk  2  T  flour 

1  T  butter  V2  C  butter 

1 1 B.  P.  1  pt.  nuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  beaten  eggs,  add  flour 
and  B.  P.  Bake  in  layers.  Put  together  with  filling.  Boil  together 
the  milk,  sugar,  butter  and  thicken  with  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  flour,  add  chopped  nuts.    Put  together  when  cold. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 

1  C  dark  brown  sugar  1  T  butter 

1  C  milk  1  egg-yolk 

1  rounding  T  flour 

Cook  milk,  sugar,  flour  and  yolk  of  egg  until  thick,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Drop  in  butter  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust  with  the 
beaten  white  of  egg  on  top,  put  in  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 

CARAMEL  PIE 

iy2  C  B.  sugar  4  eggs 

iy2  C  sugar  1  C  milk 

4  C  water  1  C  flour 

2  T  Powdered  sugar 

Melt  the  sugar  in  skillet,  on  top  of  stove  until  it  makes  a 
syrup.  Beat  the  egg-yolks,  add  milk,  water  and  flour,  cook  until 
thick  in  double  boiler;  add  syrup.  Bake  pie  crust  shell  and  fill. 
Cover  with  meringue  of  beaten  white  of  eggs  and  2  T  sugar. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Spangler. 

CHEESE  PIE 

2  C  cheese  2  lemons 

y2  C  sugar    '  y2  t  vanilla 

6  eggs    *"  4  T  flour 
1  C  double  cream 

Put  cheese  thru  colander,  add  sugar,  egg-yolks,  rind  of  one 
lemon  and  juice  of  two,  add  vanilla,  flour  and  egg-whites  stiffly 
beaten.  Bake  crust  about  half  done,  then  put  in  cheese  filling  and 
bake  forty  minutes.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Baldwin. 

CHERRY  PIE 

Take  a  deep  earthen  dish.  Shallow  pie  pans  will  not  do. 
Roll  pie  crust  out  thin  and  fit  into  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  cut 

—215— 


off  at  the  edges.  Cut  a  one  inch  strip  of  the  pie  crust  and  moist- 
ening the  outer  edge  of  the  pie,  place  this  strip  around  the  edge, 
pressing  it  into  place.  Mix  %  C  sugar  with  1  T  of  flour  and  dust 
this  evenly  over  the  dough  in  the  dish.  Take  an  ice  cold  pat  of 
butter  and  cut  it  into  small  bits,  and  dot  the  dish  with  these  bits 
of  butter. 

In  the  meantime,  the  cherries  should  be  stoned,  drained  and 
rolled  in  granulated  sugar.  Pour  in  the  cherries  and  cover  over 
them  a  thin  top  crust  that  has  been  cut  through  in  the  middle  with 
three  slashes  of  a  knife.  Press  the  edges  of  the  upper  crust  well 
down  on  the  lower  crust  and  bake  for  about  one-half  hour  in  a 
quick  oven. 

The  crust  should  not  be  crowded  with  cherries  as  this  makes 
a  tendency  for  the  pie  to  boil  over,  and  the  burned  juice  causes 
an  unpleasant  smoke. 

CHESS  PIE 

6  eggs  1  C  raisins 

2  C  sugar  1  C  pecans 

i/>  C  butter  Vanilla  flavoring 

%  C  cream 

Seed  raisins  and  chop  pecans.  Put  egg-whites  in  pie,  either 
put  the  rest  of  whites  on  top  as  meringue  or  cover  with  whipped 
cream  when  ready  to  serve.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake, 
then  add  eggs,  and  cream,  and  boil  in  double  boiler  until  creamy 
like  fudge  and  is  a  little  dark.  Stir  continually.  When  off  fire, 
add  flavoring  and  seeded  raisins  and  pecans.  Fill*  shells  that 
have  been  baked.  These  pies  will  keep  for  several  days.  This 
recipe  will  make  two  large  pies  or  twelve  individual  pieces. 

Mrs.  B.  E.  Zartman. 

CHIFFON  PIE  FILLING 

4  eggs  1  lemon 

1  C  sugar 

Cook  together  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  beaten  egg-yolks, 
1  C  sugar,  grated  rine  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  When  thick,  pour 
over  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  beat  in.  Pour  this*  in  crust  and 
put  meringue  made  of  2  whites  on  top.  Put  in  oven  to  bake  until 
brown  on  top. 

Mrs.  Harold  D.  (Evelyn  Rorabaugh)  McEwen. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  C  milk  2  egg-yolks 

1  C  sugar  3  T  grated  chocolate 

3  T  flour  1 1  vanilla 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  and 
milk,  cook  stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  the 
chocolate  last,  and  after  the  mixture  has  been  removed  from  the 


-216- 


fire,  stir  in  the  vanilla.  Put  the  whole  into  a  baked  pie  crust, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  two  eggs  very  stiff,  with 
2  T  sugar.    Brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

V2  C  sugar  2  egg-yolks 

1  C  milk  \y2  T  corn  starch 

1  T  butter  V2  t  vanilla 

iy2  T  grated  chocolate  y2  C  sweet  cream 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust,  bake.  Make  filling  of 
sugar,  milk,  butter;  when  hot  add  grated  chocolate,  beaten  yolks. 
Dissolve  in  cold  milk  corn  starch,  stirring  over  fire  until  thick 
and  smooth,  add  vanilla.  Fill  shell  with  this  mixture.  Whip 
cream  to  a  froth,  place  on  top  of  chocolate  mixture  and  serve. 
(Very  good).  C.  C. 

CURRANT  PIE 

1  C  currants  2  egg-yolks 

1  C  sugar  3  T  water 
y8  t  salt  1  T  flour 

Mash  currants,  dissolve  flour  in  water,  mix  all  ingredients 
with  egg-yolks,  pour  into  a  baked  crust  and  when  done,  cover 
with  frosting,  browning  in  a  slow  oven. 
Frosting 

2  egg-whites  2  T  sugar 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

CUSTARD  PIE 
1  pt.  milk  3  egg-yolks 

Sugar  to  suit  taste,  flavor,  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  thicken 
with  flour.    Beat  whites  of  egg  to  put  on  top  and  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

CUSTARD  APPLE  PIE 

3  ripe  apples       .  2  eggs 

1  C  sugar  1  C  milk 

!/2  t  cinnamon  1  T  butter 

^4  t  nutmeg 

Scrape  apples,  beat  eggs,  mix  all  together,  dot  butter  on  top 
and  fill  crust. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

CREAM  PIE 

1  pt.  cream  4  egg-whites 

iy2  C  sugar  y2  t  nutmeg 

Vs  t  rose  flavoring 


—217- 


Mix  cream  and  sugar,  nutmeg  and  rose.  Beat  eggs  until  they 
stand  alone,  mix  all  well  together.  Bake  with  the  undercrust 
only.    Bake  until  set. 

CREAM  PIE 

1  pt.  milk  4  eggs  (whites) 

y2  C  sugar  Vanilla 

1  t  flour  Little  pulverized  sugar 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  moisten  sugar  and  flour  and  mix 
so  it  can  be  poured,  cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  fold 
in  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  in  baked 
crust  and  place  in  oven  five  minutes.  Make  top  of  whites  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  little  pulverized  sugar.  Whipped  cream 
may  be  used  and  is  delicious. 

Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 

COCOANUT  PIE 

Use  custard  pie  recipe,  add  1  T  grated  cocoanut  to  custard 
and  1  T  grated  cocoanut  sifted  over  meringue  on  top. 

DELICIOUS  PIE 

3  egg-yolks  V2  C  pulverized  sugar 

y2  C  butter  %  t  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well  beaten  egg-yolks 
and  vanilla.  Line  a  pan  with  pie  crust  or  with  puff-paste  crust 
if  a  richer  crust  is  desired,  fill  with  the  above  mixture  and  bake 
until  it  sets.  Remove  from  oven,  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  from  three  egg-whites,  and  %  C  of  pulverized  sugar.  Re- 
turn to  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE  FOR  LEMON  PIE 

1  C  sugar  2  egg-yolks 

%  C  butter  1  lemon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  cook  in  double 
boiler,  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE 

1  can  gooseberries  3  T  butter 

1  C  sugar  1 1  flour 

Pour  off  juice  and  use  for  making  jelly.  Put  gooseberries  in 
partly  baked  under  crust.  Add  sugar,  dot  in  butter  and  sprinkle 
flour  on  top.  Cover  with  upper  crust  and  pinch  corners  closely 
together.  Make  a  little  richer  crust  1  T  butter  extra  for  goose- 
berry pie  crust. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


-218— 


HUCKLEBERRY  PIE 

Use  blackberry  pie  receipe,  and  use  %  C  of  sugar,  and  1  t 
lemon  juice. 

LEMON  PIE 

%  C  sugar  1  C  water 

1 1/2  T  flour  1  lemon 

3  eggs  Vs  t  salt 

To  sugar,  add  flour  and  mix  thoroughly,  add  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  add  juice  of  lemon  and  one  t  grated  rind.  Beat 
smooth,  adding  the  cold  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Fill  hot  pie  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  three  T  sugar  until 
stiff,  spread  over  pie,  return  to  over  and  bake  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  MILK 

Three  eggs  2  T  butter 

1  C  milk  %  t  salt 

1  C  sugar  1  lemon 

2  T  flour 

Reserve  the  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs  for  meringue. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  sugar  and  cream  the  butter  into  the 
sugar.  Stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
the  lemon,  then  add  the  milk  \ery  slowly. 

Cook  and  put  into  baked  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  made 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
bake  till  a  delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

LEMON  PIE 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  add  cup  sugar,  two  level 
tea  spoons  of  butter,  %  tea  spoon  of  salt,  two  level  table  spoons 
of  flour,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk.  Fold  in  well 
beaten  egg-whites.     Bake  in  raw  crust  in  very  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  ,0.  G.  Hutchison. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE 

1  lemon  grated  1  egg 

3  t  flour  Vs  t  salt 

1  C  sugar  1  C  sweet  milk 

Grate  lemon,  mix  flour  with  sugar,  add  egg  and  salt,  then  add 
the  grated  lemon.  Then  mix  in  the  sweet  milk.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

LEMON  SPONGE  PIE 

3  T  butter  1  C  milk  (later) 

1%  C  sugar  1  lemon 

3  eggs  3  T  flour 

y2  c  milk  %  t  salt 


—219- 


Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar.  When  very  light  add 
the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  lemon  colored  and  the  grated  yel- 
low rind  of  the  lemon  with  the  strained  juice.  Blend  together  the 
flour,  the  salt  and  the  milk;  then  mix  with  the  first  ingredients, 
add  the  additional  cup  of  milk  and  the  stiffly  whipped  egg-whites. 
Turn  quickly  into  a  large  pie  plate  that  has  been  lined  with  pastry 
and  bake  as  custard  pie.    Serve  cold. 

LOGANBERRY  PIE 

Use  Blackberry  Pie  Recipe,  use  1%  C  of  sugar  to  the  pie  and 
sprinkle  berries  with  1  T  flour. 

MACAROON  PIE 

1  T  grated  chocolate  %  *  nutmeg 
8  macaroons                                       3  T  sugar 

2  C  milk  y2  t  vanilla 

Chop  and  roll  and  sife  macaroons.  Soak  in  chocolate  and 
milk,  ten  minutes,  then  add  beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  flavor.  Mix 
well.  Cook  under  crust  half  way  done,  add  mixture  and  bake 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  May  be  served  with  molds  of  ice 
cream  on  top. 

MEAT  PIE  CRUST 

2  C  flour  1  C  milk 
1 1  B.  P.  2  T  butter 
1  egg  y8  t  salt 

Beat  egg  lightly,  mix  all  together  and  it  will  be  the  consist- 
ency of  a  batter.  Put  chicken  or  meat  in  dish,  pour  batter  over 
and  quickly  bake. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

MINCE  MEAT 

6  lb.  beef  1  T  salt 

3  lb.  suet  2  T  cinnamon 

4  lb.  raisins  1  t  pepper 
4  lb.  currants  1  T  cloves 

1  lb.  citron  3  nutmegs 

2  lb.  sugar  1  qt.  cider 

4  qts.  apples  1  qt.  molasses 

Cook  beef  slowly,  let  stand  over  night  and  chop  fine.  Mince 
beef  suet.  Seed  and  cut  raisins,  currants,  citron,  tart  apples,  put 
into  large  vessel  together.  Mix  sugar,  salt,  molasses  and  let  come 
to  boiling  point,  then  pour  over  ingredients  in  vessel,  after  hav- 
ing first  mixed  them  well.  Grape  juice  may  be  used  instead  of 
cider. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


-220- 


MINCE  MEAT 

4  lbs.  beef  3  T  cinnamon 

2  beef  hearts  (or  2  T  cloves 

4  calves'  hearts)  1  T  allspice 

4  lbs.  suet  1  T  nutmeg 

5  lbs.  currants  1  T  ginger 

2  lbs.  raisins  6_oranges  (juice) 

5  lbs.  sultanos  6  lbs.  sugar 

V2  lb.  citron  1  qt.  vinegar 

lib.  lemon  1  orange  rind 

1  bu.  apples  i  T  mace 

Boil  meat  until  bones  slip  out,  boil  hearts  until  tender,  chop 
and  boil  suet  thirty  minutes  in  salty  water;  leave  hearts  and  meat 
in  stock  all  night,  well  covered;  leave  suet  to  get  cold  in  water  in 
which  it  is  boiled;  mix  raisins,  currants,  citron,  and  lemon.  It 
improves  the  mince  meat  to  add  a  little  of  any  preserved  fruits 
you  may  have  on  hand.  Peel  and  chop  apples,  weigh  six  pounds 
sugar,  put  in  kettle  with  the  vinegar  and  let  come  to  a  boil  and 
stir  with  it  all  of  the  spices,  first  wetting  them  in  vinegar;  moisten 
fruits  with  this  syrup,  also  the  apples.  Chop  meat  and  hearts  fine 
and  break  the  suet  up  in  it.  Moisten  all  with  the  stock.  Then 
measure  one  bowl  of  the  meat  and  suet,  one  bowl  mixed  fruit  and 
one  bowl  of  the  apples  and  mix  all  together,  and  continue  this 
until  all  the  mixed  fruits  are  used  and  then  put  in  juice  of  six 
oranges  and  grated  rind  of  the  one.  Put  all  on  stove  and  cook 
until  apples  are  well  cooked,  stirring  constantly. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


MOCK  CHERRY  PIE 

I  C  cranberries  1  C  sugar 
%  C  raisins  1  t  flour 

I I  vanilla  y2  C  water 

Cut  berries  in  half,  wash  in  cold  water  to  remove  seeds  and 
mix  all  together  adding  vanilla  and  boiling  water  last.  Bake  with 
two  crusts. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


MOCK  MINCE  MEAT 

1  C  chopped  bread  2-3  C  boiled  cider  or  vinegar 

1  C  raisins  %  C  melted  butter 

1  C  molasses  2  C  boiling  water 

I  C  sugar  Vs  t  salt  and  pepper 

I I  cinnamon  %  t  cloves  and  allspice 

Stir  all  together,  then  warm.    This  will  make  three  pies. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 


-221 


NAPOLEONS 

Roll  puff  paste  as  thin  as  possible,  set  in  ice  box  one  hour. 
Bake  in  sheets  a  delicate  brown.  Cool  and  spread  between  the 
sheets  a  thick  cream  filling,  making  a  Napoleon  four  layers  high 
and  each  cream  filling  flavored  differently.  Cover  top  with  icing 
and  cut  in  blocks  two  by  four  inches.    Serve  cold. 

ORANGE  PIE 

3  egg-yolks  1  T  flour 

1  C  sugar  3  T  sweet  milk 

1  large  orange  (juice)  (rind  3  T  butter 

grated) 

Combine.  Bake  in  lower  crust.  Cover  with  meringue  made 
of  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  3  T  of  sugar. 

ORANGE  PIE 

2  oranges  2  eggs 

1   C  sugar  IT  flour 

1  C  milk  1  T  butter 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  mix  milk  with  well-beaten  yolks 
and  add  orange  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Have  under- 
crust  baked,  and  put  in  filling.  Place  in  oven  ten  minutes,  re- 
move, putting  on  top  of  pie  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten  and 

2  T  sugar.    Put  in  oven  and  brown. 

C.  C. 

PEACH  CUSTARD  PIE 

1%  C  milk  1  T  cornstarch 

1  C  sugar  1  baked  pie  crust 

2  eggs  separated  Fresh  or  canned  sliced  peaches 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  some  cold  milk,  then  heat  remainder 
of  milk  and  pour  over  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Cook 
until  a  thick  custard,  by  placing  in  double  boiler  and  stirring  con- 
tinuously. Cover  bottom  of  pie  crust  with  peaches,  pour  over 
custard,  turn  pan  over  top  and  bake  until  peaches  are  cooked. 
Add  meringue  of  two  egg-whites,  well  beaten,  two  teaspoons 
sugar,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  mixed  and  added  to  beaten 
whites  before  putting  on  pie.    Cover  and  bake  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

PEERLESS  LEMON  PIE 

%  C  sugar  1  lemon 

1  T  butter  y2  C  milk 

1  T  flour  3  eggs 
i/s  t  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  flour  and  yellow  part  of  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon,  salt,  and  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  the  juice  of 

—222— 


lemon  and  lastly  milk.  Be  sure  to  beat  mixture  thoroughly  with 
each  addition.  Bake  in  pastry  lined  pie  pan.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
stiff,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  and  spread  the  meringue  over 
the  pie  and  brown  slightly  in  oven. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Purdue. 

PATTIES 

Patties  are  made  of  puff  paste  baked  in  patty  shells.  The 
filling  gives  the  name  to  the  patty.  Meat,  oysters,  fish,  or  game 
mixed  with  a  cream  sauce  or  brown  sauce  may  fill  patty  shells. 
Vegetable  patties  are  filled  with  peas,  beans,  corn,  asparagus  or 
cauliflower,  mixed  with  a  cream  sauce. 

PEACH  COBBLER 

3  sliced  peaches  3  T.  butter 

I  C  sugar  2  T  water 
34  t  vanilla 

Boil  sugar,  butter,  vanilla  and  water  three  minutes.  Pour 
over  peaches  which  have  been  placed  in  bottom  of  bake  pan. 
Cover  with  pie  crust  one  inch  thick  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes. 

A  very  rich  biscuit  dough  made  with  butter  is  sometimes 
made  for  cobbler. 

PEACH  MINT  PIE 
Make  crust  and  bake.    When  cold  cover  with  peaches  cut  in 
slices,  arranged  in  overlapping  rows.    Add  mint  leaves  to  sugar, 
sprinkle  over  peaches  and  cover  all  with  stiff  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  mint. 

Recipe :  %  t  mint  flavoring 

I I  sifted  mint  leaves  %  C  whipping  cream 

PEACH  PIE 

8  peaches  or  2  C  sliced  peaches     1  T  butter 
3/i  C  sugar 

Pare  and  slice  peaches.  Warm  with  sugar  and  butter  melted. 
Bake  undercrust  and  add  filling.    Cover  with  top  crust  and  bake. 

PHILADELPHIA  BUTTER  PIE 

2-3  C  sugar  1  T  flour 

1  C  cream  Egg  of  butter 

Stir  butter,  flour  and  sugar  together.  Stir  in  cream,  pour  in 
pie  crust  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 
Mrs.  G.   M.   Dickson. 


PIE  CRUST 

1  C  flour 
3  T  water 

2  T  lard 
%  t  salt 

All  ice  cold. 

For  one  pie. 

-223- 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Crust  14  C  water,  iced 

2  C  flour  1  t  salt 

1  C  lard  1   egg-white 

Filling  y2  pt.  can  pineapple 

2  eggs  1  C  milk 

2  T  butter  1  T  flour 
1  C  sugar 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  using  the  yolks  for  the 
filling  and  then  place  in  a  double  boiler  the  milk,  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten,  butter,  sugar,  flour  and  pineapple  and  cook  like  a  custard 
until  done. 

Bake  the  crust  first  then  pour  the  custard  in,  beat  the  whites 
of  the  two  eggs  stiff,  and  pour  over  top  and  brown. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Millison. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

1  can  grated  pineapple  2  T  butter 

3  eggs  1  T  flour 

y2  C  milk  V2  C  sugar  or  more 

!/2  G  cream 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  dissolved  flour  in  milk,  add  cream, 
butter  and  sugar  and  pineapple.  Cook  all  together  in  double 
boiler.  Bake  crust  separately,  do  not  put  filling  in  crust  until 
cold.    This  recipe  IV2  will  make  two  pies. 

Put  meringue  on  top. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

PRESERVE  PIE 

Strawberry,  peach,  cherry,  apricot  or  any  kind  of  preserve 
is  good  placed  on  baked  crust  and  served  with  whipped  cream. 
Do  not  use  the  juice.    This  is  especially  good  in  warm  weather. 

MRS.  FARMER'S  PUMPKIN  PIE 

1%  C  pumpkin  y2  t  ginger 

2-3  C  B.  sugar  1%  C  milk 

1  t  cinnamon  %  C  cream 

y2  t  salt  2  eggs 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  order  named  and  bake  in  one  crust. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

I14  C  pumpkin  2  eggs 

2-3  C  sugar  1 1  cinnamon 

1C  hot  milk  Vs  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  at  least  five  minutes,  add  the  pump- 
kin, sugar,  hot  milk,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Turn  into  a  crust  and 
bake. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

—224— 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

1   C  pumpkin  %  t  cinnamon 

1  T  flour  V2  t  ginger 
1/2  C  milk  V2  t  vanilla 

2  eggs  y8  t  cloves 
V2  C  light  B.  sugar  %  t  salt 
y2  t  nutmeg 

Stir  the  flour  in  the  milk,  add  pumpkin,  beaten  eggs,  melted 
butter,  sugar  and  spices,  vanilla  and  salt.  Cook  forty  minutes  in 
slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen. 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  scant  cup  sugar  1  T  butter 

Cream  together,  add  1  T  flour,  1  T  vanilla,  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
While  preparing  this  have  1  cup  raisins  simmering  in  1  cup  of 
water.  Cook  a  few  minutes  then  add  other  mixture  to  raisins 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 

Put  in  your  previously  baked  pie  crust  and  cover  with  mer- 
ingue made  of  the  two  egg-whites. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

RAISIN  PIE 

iy2  C  raisins  %G  water  or  fruit  juice 

2  C  apples,  chopped  2  t  cinnamon 

1  C  walnuts,  chopped  x/2  t  cloves 

1%  C  sugar  y2  t  salt 
y2  C  vinegar 

Bake  in  crust  with  latticed  top. 
This  makes  two  pies. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  C  raisins  (seedless)  1  lemon  seeded  and  chopped 

1  C  sweet  milk  1  egg 

1  C  sugar  2  T  flour 


Chop  raisins.    Bake  between  crusts. 


C.  C. 


RAISIN  PIE 

1  C  cooked  raisins  \y2  C  sugar 

2  eggs  2  f  flour 
1  lemon 

Beat  eggs,  add  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  raisins  floured.  Cook 
until  thick,  then  put  in  partly  baked  crust,  and  add  top  crust. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 


-225- 


RHUBARB  PIE 
2  C  rhubarb  1  egg 

1  T  flour  i/8  t  salt 

iy2  C  sugar 

Cut  rhubarb  in  discs  sufficient  to  make  2C.  Mix  well  sugar 
and  flour  and  salt,  add  beaten  egg,  make  pie  crust  from  pie  crust 
recipe,  and  fill  with  the  rhubarb  mixture.  Cover  with  strips  of 
crust. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

1  C  stewed  rhubarb  1  T  corn  starch 

1  C  sugar  1  lemon 

1  T  butter  1  egg-yolk 

Moisten  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water  and  cook  until 
clear  in  y> C  boiling  water.  Pour  over  the  sugar  and  butter  and 
allow  to  cool,  then  add  lemon,  eggs  and  rhubarb.  Prepare  crust 
first.  Bake  in  one  crust.  When  done  spread  with  meringue  made 
of  the  beaten  white  of  the  eggs  and  one  small  C  of  sugar.  If  pies 
arc  not  desired  very  thick,  this  will  be  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

RHUBARB  PIE 
Enough  uncooked  rhubarb  to  make  pie. 

2  egg-yolks  1  T  butter 
lVo  C  sugar                                          pinch  of  salt 
2  T  flour 

Make  pie  crust — fill  with  rhubarb  and  mixture,  well  mixed, 
bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour,  then  put  whites  of  2  eggs  on  top  and 
brown. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

1%  C  potato  boiled  and  mashed  2  t  cinnamon 

5  C  sugar  i/2  t  nutmeg 

5  eggs  14  t  salt 
1  qt.  milk 

Make  and  bake  the  same  as  Custard  Pie. 

TARTS  AND  TARTLETS 

Tarts  and  tartlets  can  be  made  by  cutting  either  plain  or  puff 
paste  into  small  tarts,  or  baking  in  tart  pans.  Fill  with  the  same 
filling  used  for  pie,  or  fill  with  marmalade  or  jelly.  Sometimes 
the  plain  pie  crust  is  made  richer. 

—226— 


VINEGAR  PIE 

2  egg-yolks  2y2  T  vinegar 

2  C  sugar  1  C  water 

2  T  flour  1  T  butter 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar  and  flour.  Add  vinegar  and  water. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  and  then  put  in  baked  pie  crust.  Cover 
with  meringue  made  of  the  two  egg-whites  and  brown  in  oven. 

WHITE  PIE 

1  C  milk  1  t  vanilla 
%  C  sugar                                           4  egg-whites 

2  t  flour  %  t  salt 

Bake  crust  in  deep  tin.  Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Add 
sugar  and  flour  moistened  with  milk  sufficient  to  pour,  and  cook 
until  thick.  Take  from  fire  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  salt  and  vanilla.  Fill  the  crust  and  put  in  oven  five  minutes 
or  until  set.  Make  meringue  with  two  egg-whites  and  two  t 
pulverized  sugar.    Cover  pie  and  brown  or  use  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 


-227- 


CAKES 


Apple  Sauce  Cake 
Angle  Food  Cake 
Angle  Food  Cake,  Small 
Apple  Cake,  Dutch 
Bread  Cake 
Brown  Stone  Front 
Blitz  Kugen 
Burnt  Sugar 
Chocolate  Cake 
Chocolate  Cake 
Chocolate  Cream  Roll 
Cheese  Cakes 
Coffee  Cake 
Custard  Cake 
Date  Cake 
Delicious  Cake,  Allegretti 

Filling 
Fruit  Cake 

Favorite  Sponge  Cake 
Fairy  Ginger  Bread 
Ginger  Bread 

Grandmother's  Ginger  Bread 
(Soft)  Ginger  Bread  with 

Sour  Milk 
Hurry  Cake 
Jam  Cake 
Kathryn's  Chocolate  Cake  and 

Icing 
Lady  Baltimore  and  Filling 
Marble  Cake 
One  Egg  Cake 
Oregon  Fruit  Cake 
1-2-^-4  Cake 
Potato  Cake 
Sponge  Cake 
Sponge  Cake 
Short  Cake 

Sour  Cream  Molasses  Cake 
Sunshine  Cake 
Sunshine  Cake 
Surprise  Cake 
Spice  Cake 
Velvet  Sponge  Cake 
Mrs.  Woodrow  Wilson's 

Wedding  Cake 
White  Layer  Cake 
White  Fruit  Cake 

White  Cake 

Yellow  Sponge  Tea  Cake 

Cake  Hints 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Dixon 
Mrs.  Rorabaugh 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 
Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden 
Mrs.  Frank  Harryman 
Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  H,.  G.  Norton 
Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker 
Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen 
Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison 
Mrs.  Purdue 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 
Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown 
Mrs.  Frank  Harryman 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  Carrie  Steel 
Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  Chester  Long 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown 
Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 
Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton 
Mrs.  M.  Murdock 
Mrs.  Steel 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 
Mrs.  Steel 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 
Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen 


Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 
Mrs.  Mary  C.  Todd 
Mrs.  Steel 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 


-230- 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  i/2  t  Cloves 
%  C  Butter  14  t  Mace 

2  C  Flour  1/2  C  Nuts 
1  C  Apple  Sauce  1  t  Soda 

1  C  Raisins  1  t  B.  P. 

I  t  Cinnamon  2  Eggs 

Mix  in  usual  manner  and  bake  in  loaf. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

II  egg-whites  1  1-3  C  Granulated  Sugar 
y8  t  Salt  1  t  Vanilla 

1  t  Cream  of  Tartar  1  t  Orange  Extract 

1  C  Flour  "Swansdown" 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  gallon  crock,  having  crock  and  eggs 
cold.  Add  salt.  Sift  the  flour  five  times,  the  sugar  five  times, 
measure  the  flour  by  t  into  measuring  cup.  Beat  the  eggs  with 
wire  whip  two  minutes,  add  Cream  Tartar,  beat  seven  or  eight 
minutes,  add  the  sugar  gently  but  quickly,  flavor,  add  the  flour 
lightly.  Place  in  an  Angel  Food  Cake  pan.  Do  not  grease  pan, 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  When  done 
turn  upside  down,  leave  for  one  hour,  cut  out  and  ice. 

Mrs.  Rorabaugh. 

SMALL  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

1  C  Milk  3  t  B.  P. 

1  C  Flour  2  Egg- Whites 

1  C  Sugar  Vs  t  Salt 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Sift  flour  and  sugar  together 
four  times.  Add  to  B.  P.  and  salt.  Pour  the  hot  milk  in  mixture 
stirring  constantly  until  smooth.  Fold  in  the  beaten  egg-whites 
by  pushing  the  bowl  of  the  spoon  from  you,  then  back,  then  from 
right  to  left  and  left  to  right  until  mixed.  Do  not  grease  the  pan. 
Flavor  the  icing  and  not  the  cake.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Aley. 

DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE 

1/3  C  Butter  2  C  Flour 

1  C  Sugar  2  t  B.  P. 

2  Eggs  2  C  Apples 
1/2  G  Milk  1  t  Vanilla 

Put  mixture  in  shallow  pan  then  2  C  sliced  apples  on  top  of 
batter.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 


-231- 


BREAD  CAKE 

iy2  C  Bread  Sponge  1  C  Chopped  Nuts 

1   C  Sugar  1  t  Soda 

1  Egg  ^  1  t  B.  P. 

1   C  Flour  1  t  Cinnamon 

14  C  Butter  %  t  Nutmeg 

1  C  Raisins 

Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 


BROWN  STONE  FRONT 

1/2  C  Butter  2  Eggs  well  beaten 

1  C  Sugar  1  t  Soda 
1/2  C  Sweet  Milk  1  t  Vanilla 

2  C  Flour  Mix  in  usual  manner. 

One  C  grated  chocolate  or  2  squares,  y2  C  sugar,  y2  milk,  1 
egg-yolk.  Cook  until  smooth  and  add  to  above  cake  mixture  while 
hot.    Bake  in  layers  and  ice. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden. 

BLITZ  KUGEN 

1  C  powdered  sugar  1  t  B.  P. 

1  C  butter  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  pastry  flour  1  small  pinch  salt 
4  eggs 

Separate  eggs  and  beat  yolks  very  light,  add  sugar  and 
cream.  Then  add  salt  and  vanilla,  then  add  sifted  flour,  then 
fold  in  beaten  whites  of  egg,  then  add  B.  P.  last.  Bake  in  greased 
flat  pan.  Cover  top  with  shredded  cut  almonds,  little  powder- 
ed sugar  and  sprinkle  little  cinnamon  on  top.  Bake  in  slow 
oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

IY2  C  Sugar  2y2  C  Flour 

y2  C  Butter  2  t  B.  P. 

2  Eggs  1  t  Vanilla 

1  C  Water  (cold)  3  t  Burnt  Sugar  Syrup 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks,  beaten  light,  water,  flour, 
B.  P.  and  vanilla.  Then  add  the  burnt  sugar  and  fold  in  the  well 
beaten  egg-whites.  Bake  in  layers  and  ice  with  caramel  frosting. 
To  burn  sugar,  put  1  cupful  sugar  in  a  skillet  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  is  melted  and  brown.  Add  one-half  C  hot  water  and  boil 
to  a  thick  syrup. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 


—232— 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

y2  C  Butter  5  T  Boiling  Water 

1%  C  Sugar  y2  C  Milk 

1%  C  Flour  2  t  B.  P. 

1  t  Vanilla  2  oz.  Chocolate 

4  Eggs 

Dissolve  chocolate  in  boiling  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  chocolate;  and  the  milk,  and  flour 
alternately,  having  sifted  the  B.  P.  and  flour  together.  Fold  into 
this  mixture  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-wjhites.  Bake  either  in  loaf  or 
layers.  Use  either  white  or  chocolate  boiled  icing.  Use  pastry 
flour. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

!/9  Cake  Chocolate,  melted  1  C  B.  Sugar 

1  C  B.  Sugar  V2  C  Butter 

1  C  Sweet  Milk  1/2  C  Sweet  Milk 

1  Egg-Yolk  2  Eggs  and  1  Egg- White 

1  t  Vanilla  2  C  Flour 

Cook  until  smooth  and  let  cool  1  t  Soda  in  2  T  Hot  Water 

Mix  in  usual  manner,  add  the  above  mixture,  and  bake  in 
layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is  very  nice  baked  in  gem  pans, 
iced  and  served  as  tea  cakes. 

Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  ROLL 

5  Eggs  2  T  Flour 

1  C  Sugar  3  T  Cocoa 

To  the  well  beaten  yolks  add  the  sugar  and  beat  till  creamy, 
add  flour  and  cocoa,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Spread 
over  a  pan  twelve  inches  square.  Bake  in  a  cool  oven  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes.  Turn  on  a  damp  towel;  let  cool.  Spread 
with  one  cup  of  heavy  cream  whipped  and  flavored.  Roll.  Then 
ice  with  the  following: 

7  T  Powdered  Sugar  3  T  Cold  Coffee 

2  T  Cocoa 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen. 

CHEESE  CAKES 

iy2  C  B.  Sugar  2  Eggs 

y2  C  Butter  2  C  Currants 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust  and  put  in  gem  pans.  Wash  currants 
until  perfectly  clean.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  together  then  add 
currants  and  lastly  the  eggs  beaten,  pour  this  mixture  into  the 
gem  pans  and  bake.    Will  serve  fourteen  people. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 


-233- 


COFFEE  CAKE 

1  Cake  Yeast  14  t  Soda 

1  Pt.  Sweet  Milk  2  Eggs 

1/3  C  Butter  1  t  Cinnamon 
1/3  C  Sugar 

Mix  yeast  with  y2  pint  milk  and  flour  at  night  mixing  stiff. 
Add  rest  of  the  ingredients  in  the  morning. 

Mrs.  Purdue. 

CUSTARD  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  3  t  B.  P. 

1/2  C  Sweet  Milk  2  C  Flour  (small) 

1  Egg 

Bake  in  jelly  tins.     Spread  between  layers  of  cake  the  fol- 
lowing custard: 

1  pt.  Cream   (thin)  1  T  Flour 

1  Egg  (beaten)  y2  C  Sugar 

1  t  Corn  Starch  Lemon  (or  any  extract) 

Boil  cream,  beaten  egg,  cornstarch,  flour,  sugar  together, 
when  cold  flavor  with  lemon  or  any  extract. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

DATE  CAKE 

1  C  B  sugar  iy2  C  Flour 

2  Eggs    *  1  t  Vanilla 
V2  C  Butter  1  t  Lemon 

y2  C  Sour  Milk  1  lb.  Dates  (cut  fine) 

1  t  Soda  y2  C  Walnut  Meats  (broken) 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 

DELICIOUS  CAKE  ALLEGRETTI  FILLING 

2  C  sugar  1  C  milk 
1  C  butter  2  t  B.  P. 

3  eggs  1  t  vanilla 
3  C  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  milk,  flour,  van- 
illa.   Lastly  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  in  two  layers. 

ALLEGRETTI  FILLING 

1  C  water  1%  C  sugar 

Boil  together  until  it  will  spin  a  thread,  have  ready  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Pour  the  hot  syrup  slowly  over  the 
whites,  beating  constantly.  Beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread, 
spread  quickly  on  cakes  when  cold  and  firm.  Melt  about  one- 
half  cake  of  unsweetened  chocolate  and  spread  over  icing,  put 
layers  together  immediately. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman. 


—234— 


FRUIT  CAKE 

Dark  Part:  %  lb.  English  Walnuts 

1%  C  B.  Sugar  2/3  C  Water,  or  Coffee 

1  C  Butter  1  t  Soda 

2  C  Flour  i/2  t  Cloves 

6  Egg-Yolks  V2  t  Cinnamon 

\y%  lbs.  Raisins  %  t  Allspice 

1  lb.  Currants  y2  t  Nutmeg 
%  lb.  Citron,  cut  fine 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  beat  well,  then  add 
fruit  and  spices,  and  last  soda. 

White  Part:  M>  lb.  Citron  cut  fine 

6  Egg- Whites  V2  lb.  Grated  Cocoanut 

1  C  Sugar  1  t  Rose  Water 

y>  C  Butter  1  t  Lemon  Extract 

%  C  Sweet  Cream  1  Small  Stick  Sugared  Orange 

2  C  Flour  Cream,  sugar  and  butter,  add 
2  Rounding  t  B.  P.  cream,  nuts,  flour,  etc.,  and 
1  lb.  Almonds  chopped  fine               last  whites  of  eggs 

Line  a  pan  with  buttered  paper,  mixing  the  light  and  dark 
as  desired,  and  bake  slowly  two  hours.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

A  FAVORITE  SPONGE  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  1  C  Flour 

1/2  C  Water  1  t  B.  P. 

6  Eggs 

Boil  sugar  and  water  for  five  minutes.  While  hot,  pour  over 
the  beaten  egg-whites  and  beat  until  cold,  add  the  well  beaten 
yolks  and  flavor.  Add  flour  with  B.  P.  sifted  five  times.  Bake 
forty-five  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 


FAIRY  GINGERBREAD 

%  C  butter  2  C  flour 

1  C  granulated  sugar  1  lb.  ginger 
i/i   C   molasses  %  t  soda 

%  C  sweet  milk  y>  t  ground  cinnamon 

2  eggs  2,tB.  P. 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  add  molasses,  then 
milk,  then  add  all  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  previously 
sifted  three  times  together — then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  pour 
into  large  buttered  tin — Bake  about  25  minutes.  Do  not  have 
oven  extremely  hot  at  first. 

Mrs.  Frank  Harryman. 

—235— 


GINGER  BREAD 

V8  C  Lard  1%  t  Soda 

Vs  C  Butter  %  t  Salt 

i/,  C  B.  Sugar  V/2  C  Flour 

2  Eggs  iy2  t  Ginger 
y2  C  Molasses 

Cream  butter  and  lard,  add  sugar,  beaten  eggs  and  molasses, 
then  add  the  mixed  and  sifted  ingredients  and  half  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Pour  into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  GINGER  BREAD 

y2  C  Butter  2  Eggs 

1  C  Sugar  1  t  Ginger 

1  C  Molasses  1  t  Cloves 

1  C  Sour  Milk  1  t  Cinnamon 

2  t  Soda  1  C  Raisins 

4  C  Flour  The  grated  rind  of  an  orange 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
spices  and  molasses.  (Black  New  Orleans  Molasses,  not  syrup.) 
Sift  flour  twice  before  measuring.  Add  soda  and  sift  again,  mix- 
ing it  in  alternately  with  the  sour  milk.  To  be  rather  a  soft  mix- 
ture. Add  the  orange  peel  and  raisins  which  have  been  rolled  in 
flour.    Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD  WITH  SOUR  MILK 

1  C  Sugar  4  Eggs 

3/4  C  Butter  1  t  Cinnamon 

1  C  Molasses  Vt  t  Allspice 

1  C  Sour  Milk  %  t  Cloves 
2y2  C  Flour  V2  t  Vanilla 

2  t  Soda  y?  t  Lemon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  molasses,  beaten  egg-yolks, 
then  sour  milk  alternately  with  the  dry  ingredients  which  have 
been  sifted  together;  the  flavoring  and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

HURRY  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  2  t  B.  P. 

2  Eggs  Flavoring 
1%  C  Flour 

Break  eggs  in  cup,  add  enough  sweet  cream  to  fill  the  cup. 
Beat  sugar,  cream  and  eggs  well.    Add  flour  and  B.  P. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Steel. 


—236— 


JAM  CAKE 

1/2  C  Butter  1  t  Soda 

1  C  Sugar  1  t  Cinnamon 

3  Eggs,  well  beaten  y2  t  Nutmeg 

3  T  Sour  Cream  1  C  Blackberry  Jam 

li/2  C  Flour 

Add  soda  to  cream.  Mix  in  usual  manner.  Bake  in  layers, 
using  white  frosting.     Other  jams  can  be  used. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 

KATHRYN'S  CHOCOLATE  CAKE  AND  ICING 

V2  C  Butter  1%  C  Pastry  Flour 

iy2  C  Sugar  3  Eggs 

V2  C  Cold  Water  2  Squares  Chocolate 

14  C  Boiling  Water  1/2  t  Vanilla 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  beaten  egg-yolks,  then  choco- 
late which  has  been  melted  and  mixed  with  the  boiling  water; 
add  the  cold  water  and  beat  well.  Add  1  C  of  the  flour  which  has 
been  sifted  three  times;  beat  well  and  add  the  %  C  of  flour  which 
has  been  sifted  with  B.  P.  three  times.  Add  vanilla  and  lastly 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites.  Pour  into  an  unbuttered  tin 
which  has  a  piece  of  oiled  paper  in  the  bottom  and  bake  in  a  very 
slow  fire  at  first.  When  cake  has  raised,  increase  the  heat  a  little. 
Bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

Icing — 
1  C  Sugar  2  Eggs 

1/3  C  Water  %  t  Vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  a  medium  hard  ball  will  form 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Let  set  until  all  the  bubbles  disap- 
pear; then  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites  and  beat  until 
the  mixture  is  cold;  add  vanilla  and  spread  upon  cake. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


LADY  BALTIMORE 

1  C  Butter  4  C  Flour 

2  C  Powdered  Sugar  4  t  B.  P. 

1  C  Milk  Y2  Lemon  Juice 

6  egg-whites 

This  is  used  at  many  Southern  house  parties. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk.  When  well  mixed,  stir 
in  the  juice  of  lemon  and  whip  very  light.  Then  stir  in  alter- 
nately the  stiffened  egg-whites  and  flour,  which  has  been  sifted 
twice  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers.  When  cold, 
put  together  with  following  filling: 


-237- 


LADY  BALTIMORE  (Filling) 

3  C  Granulated  Sugar 
1  C  Water 
3  Egg- Whites 


1  C  Seeded  Raisins 
Mi  C  Halved  Pecans 
5  Figs 


Boil  sugar  in  water  until  it  hairs,  pour  while  boiling  over  the 
eggs,  (which  have  been  whipped  to  a  standing  froth).  Whip 
quickly  until  you  have  a  thick  cream,  then  stir  in  raisins,  pecans, 
and  figs  (that  have  been  soaked  soft  in  lukewarm  water,  dried 
and  minced). 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 


MARBLE  CAKE 


White  Part 
4  Egg-Whites 
iy2  C  Sugar 
2/3  C  Butter 

Dark  Part 
4  Egg-Yolks 
1  C  B.  Sugar 
V2  C  Molasses 
y2  C  Butter 


1/2  C  Milk 

1  t  Cream  of  Tartar 

1/2  t  Soda 

1  2/3  C  Flour 

V2  C  Sour  Milk 

1  t  Soda 

1  t  All  kinds  of  Spices 

1  2/3  C.  Flour 


Bake  in  square  tin.  Place  T  of  the  light  and  dark  cake  bat- 
ter in  the  tin,  hit  and  miss.  The  light  part  makes  a  good  layer 
cake. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 


ONE  EGG  CAKE 


1  C  Sugar 

2  C  Flour 
1  Egg 

2/3  C  Milk 


1  T  Butter 

1  t  Vanilla 

2  t  B.  P. 


Beat  until  light. 


Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


OREGON  FRUIT  CAKE 


2  C  Sugar 

1  t  Lemon 

2  C  Butter 

1  lb.  Dates  (cut  fine) 

5  Eggs 

%  lb.  Citron  (cut  fine) 

2  pt.  Flour 

1  lb.  Currants 

1  t  Soda   (dissolved  in 

a  little 

1  lb.  Raisins 

boiling  water) 

14  C  Candied  Orange  and 

1  t  Vanilla 

Lemon  Peel  (cut  fine) 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 


-238— 


1-2-3-4  CAKE 

1  C  Butter  1  C  Milk  or  Cold  Water 

2  C  Sugar  3  Level  t  B.  P. 

3  C  Flour  Flavoring 

4  Eggs 

Mix  in  usual  manner,  bake  in  layers,  and  ice.  This  makes  a 
good  nut  cake  by  adding  one  cup  of  nut  meats  and  baking  in  a 
loaf. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 

POTATO  CAKE 

1  C  Butter  4  Eggs 

2  C  Sugar  1  t  Cinnamon 
2  C  Flour                                            y2  t  Cloves 

1  C  Potato  y2  t  Nutmeg 
%  C  Milk  4  t  B.  P. 

2  Squares  Chocolate  2  t  Vanilla 
1  C  English  Walnuts  or  Pecans 

Mash  potatoes  as  for  table  use;  melt  chocolate.  Cream  but- 
ter and  sugar,  add  yolks  well  beaten,  potatoes  and  milk;  then 
flour,  B.  P.  spices,  vanilla,  chocolate  and  nuts.  Beat  well  and  last 
fold  in  whites  stiffly  beaten.  Bake  in  layers.  Use  either  white  or 
chocolate  frosting. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Norton. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

4  Eggs  2  t  B.  P. 

1  C  Sugar  4  T  Boiling  Water 

1  C  Flour 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  yellow  and  creamy,  add  sugar, 
beat  well,  and  water,  then  add  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add 
beaten  whites  last.    Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.    Use  any  filling. 

Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  1  t  B.  P. 

2  Eggs  %  C  Hot  Milk 
1  C  Pastry  Flour                               %  t  Salt 

Put  sugar  in  mixing  bowl,  break  eggs  into  it,  beat  until  very 
creamy  with  Dover  egg  beater,  then  add  flour  and  B.  P.,  last  add 
hot  milk.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Steel. 

SHORT  CAKE 

V2  C  Milk  or  Water  4  t  B.  P. 

4  T  Butter,  Melted  %  t  Salt 

1  C  Flour  Sifted  2  T  Sugar 

Place  in  oven  at  once  after  mixing. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 


—239- 


SOUR  CREAM  MOLASSES  CAKE 

1  C  Molasses  V2  t  cloves 

1  C  Sour  Cream  %  t  Ginger 

2  Eggs  well  beaten  2  t  Soda 
i/8  t  Salt  2  C  Flour 
1  t  Cinnamon 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  sour  cream.    Beat  mixture  well  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Steel. 


SUNSHINE  CAKE 

5  egg-yolks  1/3  t  Cream  Tartar 

7  Egg- Whites  Vs  t  Salt 

li/4  C  Sugar  Vanilla 

1  C  Swansdown  Flour 

Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar.  Whip  whites  to 
a  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff,  add  sugar 
a  little  at  a  time.  Beat  yolks  till  thick,  fold  into  whites,  then  grad- 
ually fold  Hour  lightly  through.  Bake  in  Turks  head  pan  in 
moderate  oven  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


SUNSHINE  CAKE 

10  Egg-Whites  1  C  Flour 

6  Egg-Yolks  1  t  Cream  Tartar 

iy2  C  Sugar  i/8  t  Salt 

Juice  y2  Lemon 

Beat  whites  until  dry,  add  salt  as  you  beat.  Add  cream  of 
tartar  when  eggs  are  frothy  and  beat  until  stiff.  Sift  sugar  three 
times,  add  to  whites.  Beat  yolks,  fold  into  whites,  then  add  lemon 
juice.  Sift  flour  three  times,  fold  into  batter.  Pour  into  unbut- 
tered  pan.    Bake  fifty  minutes  to  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


SURPRISE  CAKE 

1  C  Sugar  2y2  C  Swansdown  Cake  Flour 
V>  C  Butter  sifted  before  mixing 

2  Eggs  3%  t  B.  P. 
1  C  Milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  egg-yolks.  Sift  flour 
and  baking  powder  together  three  times.  Add  alternately  with 
milk.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  flavor.  Bake  in  a  layer  or 
loaf,  but  is  especially  nice  in  loaf. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 


-240- 


SPICE  CAKE 

2  C  B.  Sugar  1  t  B.  P. 

1/2  C  Butter  2%  C  Flour,  Sifted  before 

2  Eggs  measuring 

1  C  Sour  Milk  %  t  Cloves 

1  t  Soda  1  t  Allspice 

14  Nutmeg,  grated  1%  t  Cinnamon 

%  t  Salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  and  salt.  Then 
add  the  milk  with  soda,  then  2/3  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  two 
minutes.  Add  remaining  flour  with  B.  P.  Add  spices  and  lastly 
fold  in  egg-whites.  This  makes  two  layers.  Spread  with  boiled 
icing. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE 

4  Eggs  2  t  B.  P. 

2  Scant  C  Sugar  2  t  Vanilla 

2  C  Flour  2/3  C  Boiling  Water 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  all  sugar,  beat,  add  flour  sifted  with 
B.  P.,  add  vanilla.  This  makes  a  very  stiff  batter.  Then  add 
slowly  at  first,  boiling  water.  This  makes  a  very  thin  batter. 
Bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  in  very,  very  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Henry  J.  Allen. 

MBS.  WOODBOW  WILSON'S  WEDDING  CAKE 

V/2  G  Sugar  3%  C  Swansdown  Flour 

34  C  Butter  3y2  t  B.  P. 

6  Egg- Whites  1  t  Vanilla,  Lemon  or  Bose 

1  C  Milk  Flavoring 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff — add  spoonful  at  a  time  of  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar  to  eggs,  then  add  flavoring.  Pour  in 
one  C  milk  and  before  stirring  add  all  at  once  flour  previously 
sifted  four  times  with  B.  P.  Line  bottom  of  pan  with  paper,  if 
you  use  square  pan,  grease  the  corners  slightly,  otherwise,  do  not. 
This  makes  a  large  loaf. 

WHITE  LAYEB  CAKE 

1/2  C  Butter  1%  C  Sugar 

3  t  B.  P.  It  Orange  Extract 
2y2  C  Cake  Flour  6  Egg- Whites 

1  C  Milk 

Cream  well  butter  and  sugar,  add  slowly  milk,  and  flour  with 
B.  P.,  then  add  egg-whites,  with  extract. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 


-241— 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  C  Butter  1  lb.  Figs 

2  C  Sugar  1  lb.  Almonds 

1  C  Milk  V4  lb.  Citron 
2y2  C  Flour  1  C  Cocoanut 

2  t  B.  P.  It  Grated  Lemon 
7  egg-whites  1  t  Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  sweet  milk,  flour  in  which  B.  P. 
has  been  sifted,  egg-whites,  well  beaten,  seeded  raisins,  figs  and 
almonds  chopped  fine,  citron,  freshly  grated  cocoanut,  vanilla  and 
grated  lemon.    Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  Todd. 

Mrs.  Steel. 

WHITE  CAKE 

iy2  C  Sugar  3  t  B.  P. 

2/3  C  Butter  4  egg-whites,  well  beaten 

1  C  Milk  or  Water  1  t  Vanilla 

3  C  Flour 

Mix  in  usual  manner.    Bake  in  layers. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

YELLOW  SPONGE  TEA  CAKES 

4  Eggs  1  C  Flour 
1  C  Sugar                                           1  t  B.  P. 
14  C  Milk                                            1  t  Vanilla 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  very  light.  Add  whites  last 
thing  and  bake  in  little  patty  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

CAKE  HINTS 

Good  cake  is  attained  only  by  careful  measuring,  more  care- 
ful mixing  and  most  careful  baking. 

Pastry  flour  makes  a  finer  and  more  delicate  cake  than  or- 
dinary flour. 

Too  much  will  cause  a  cake  to  bake  with  a  hump  in  the  cen- 
ter, to  be  tough  and  stiff  and  usually  to  crack  open.  Too  much 
baking  powder  will  make  it  coarse  and  cause  it  to  dry  quickly. 

Give  the  batter  a  vigorous  beating  after  you  add  the  flour. 
The  well-beaten  egg-whites  should  be  added  last,  folding  them 
into  the  batter  very  gently. 

Sweet  milk  makes  cake  that  cuts  like  pound  cake;  sour  milk 
makes  spongy,  light  cake. 

Always  sift  flour  before  measuring,  then  it  may  be  sifted 
again  with  the  baking  powder  to  insure  their  being  thoroughly 
blended. 

In  making  fruit  cakes,  add  the  fruit  before  putting  in  the 
flour,  as  this  will  prevent  it  falling  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake. 
Flouring  the  fruit  is  unnecessary  unless  the  fruit  is  damp. 


-242- 


In  creaming  butter  and  sugar,  when  butter  is  too  hard  to 
blend  easily,  warm  the  bowl  and  if  necessary,  warm  the  sugar, 
but  never  warm  the  butter,  as  this  will  change  both  texture  and 
flavor  of  the  cake. 

The  smaller  the  cake,  the  hotter  should  be  the  oven.  Large, 
rich  cakes  require  very  slow  baking. 


-243— 


FROSTINGS 


Caramel  Filling  for  Cake 
Chocolate  Icing 
Caramel  Frosting 
Custard  for  Filling 

Caramel  Fruit  Icing 
Chocolate  Sauce 
Coffee  Filling  for  Cake 

Frosting  for  Cake 

Icing 

Lemon  Filling 

Orange  Filling 

Reliable  Frosting 

Uncooked  Icing 

White  Frosting 


Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh 
Mrs.  M.  Murdock 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown 
Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison 
Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 
Mrs.  Spangler 
Per  Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  Warren  Brown 


-24G- 


CARAMEL  FILLING  FOR  CAKE 

2%  C  light  R.  sugar  %  C  cream 

y2  C  butter  1  t  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  and  cream  until  a  drop  will  go  to  the  bottom  of 
a  glass  of  cold  water  and  remain  in  a  drop.  Take  off  the  fire, 
add  butter  and  beat.  In  about  10  min.  add  the  flavoring,  vanilla 
or  other  preferred.  Continue  to  beat  until  of  the  right  consist- 
ency to  use. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 

2  C  powdered  sugar 

2  T  cream  heated  to  boiling  point 
Spuare  and  y2  of  chocolate 

Put  sugar  in  bowl,  add  cream  and  melted  chocolate.  If  too 
thick,  thin  with  hot  cream;  if  too  thin,  add  more  powdered 
sugar. 

Mrs.  M.  Murdock. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING 

1  C  of  cream  or  rich  milk  1  C  chopped  fruit 

y2  C  of  butter  1  C  chopped  nuts 

3  C  of  light  R.  sugar 

Cook  sugar,  cream  and  butter  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water.  Beat  until  .cool.  Be  careful  about  its  granulating. 
Add  fruit  and  nuts. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 

CUSTARD  FOR  FILLING 

1  egg  3  T  flour 

y2  C  sugar  1  C  boiling  milk 

1  t  vanilla  lump  butter 

Mix  egg,  sugar  and  flour  together,  heat  milk  to  boiling  point, 
pour  over  mixture,  add  butter  and  cook  until  thick,  add  flavor- 
ing and  serve  with  whipped  cream.    2  C  nuts  can  be  added. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown 

CARAMEL  FRUIT  ICING 

3  C  B.  sugar  y2  C  chopped  nuts 

1  C  rich  milk  %  C  chopped  raisins 

y2  C  butter 

Roil  the  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  nuts  and  raisins.  Put  on 
cake  when  beginning  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Robert  R.  Campbell. 


-247- 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

1  C  sugar  1  t  flour 

1  C  water  V-z  t  vanilla 

Vo  C  chocolate 

Cook  until  thick,  stir  occassionally.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
when  cool.    Makes  Yi  pint. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

COFFEE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE 

V»  lb.  unsalted  butter  1  C  pulverized  sugar 

1  t  vanilla  V2  C  coffee 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  drop  by  drop,  add  Y>  cup 
strong  Mocha  coffee;  beat  all  the  time,  add  vanilla.  Spread  be- 
tween layers  of  cake  when  cool. 

Mrs.  Sp angler, 
per  Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes 

FROSTING  FOR  CAKE 

1  t  gelatine  2  T  melted  butter 

2  t  cold  water  2%  C  confectioners'  sugar 
6  T  hot  milk  1  t  vanilla 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  hot 
milk  then  add  butter.     Stir  in  sugar  until  mixture  is  of  the  right 
onsistency  to  spread   (the  amount  required  being  about  2%  C, 
and  add  vanilla. 

ICING 

1  C  sugar  1   egg-white 

y2  C  water  2-3  C  nuts 

Cook  sugar  and  water  until  threads,  pour  on  beaten  eggs,  add 
chopped  nuts. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

LEMON  FILLING 

I  C  sugar  1  lemon 

I I  C  water  2  T  cornstarch 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  then  put  in  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
lemon  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  to  this  the  cornstarch  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  boil  until  consis- 
tency as  jelly.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  immediately  spread 
between  the  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

V2  lb.  confection  sugar  1  T  melted  butter 

Juice  of  one  small  orange,  beat  together  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


—248- 


RELIABLE  FROSTING 

Put  in  upper  part  of  double  boiler,  1  unbeaten  egg-white,  1 
C  granulated  sugar  and  three  table  spoons  of  cold  water.  Place 
over  boiling  water  and  beat  continuously  with  a  dover  egg 
beater  for  7  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  add  12  marshmal- 
lows  then  beat  until  smooth  and  cool  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

UNCOOKED  ICING 

1  C  powdered  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

2  T  pulv.  cocoa  or  chocolate         ^4  C  coffee 
1  T  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  thoroughly.  Put  in  butter  and  vanilla 
and  last  add  the  coffee.  Slowly  stirring  until  right  consistency 
for  spreading  on  top  of  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

WHITE  FROSTING 

1  C  sugar  14  t  cream  tartar 

%  C  water  14  t  B.  P. 

Boil  till  it  syrups — add  when         4  drops  vanilla 
cool: 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown. 


-249— 


COOKIES 


Best  Cookies  in  the  World 
Bread  Doughnuts 
Brownies 
Brambles 

Butterscotch  Cookies 
Berlinerkause — Danish 
Cookies 

Comfits 

Christmas  Cookies 

Cookies 

Chocolate  Brownies 

Chocolate  Doughnuts 

Chocolate  Fruit  Cookies 

Chocolate  Cream  Puff  Shells 

Cookies 

Date  Bars 
Date  Cakes 
Date  Cookies 
Date  Sticks 
Doughnuts 
Doughnuts 
Date  Confections 
Doughnuts 

Fruit  Cookies 

Ginger  Creams 
Ginger  Wafers 

Hermits 
Hermits 

Japanese  Hard  Tack 

Kisses 

Molasses  Cookies 
Molasses  Cookies 
Molasses  Cookies  and  Snaps 
Nut  Cookies 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Pecan  Wafers 
Potatoe  Doughnuts 

Rocks 

Sugar  Cookies 
Sugar  Cookies 

Vanities 


Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  O.  G.  Hutchison 
Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 
Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck 

Mrs.  George  Whitney 
Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Christina  Ross  Haun 
Mrs.  Norton 
Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 
Mrs.  H.  J.  Allen 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis 
Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 
Mrs.  Erwin  Taft 
Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 
(Given  by  Mrs.  Norton) 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen 
Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  0.  G.  Hutchison 

Margaret  Long  Stanley 

Christina  Ross  Haun 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes 
Mrs.  Carrie  Steel 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison 
Mrs.  J.  P.  Allen 

Mrs.  Barnes 


—252— 


BEST  COOKIES  IN  THE  WORLD 

2  C  flour  1  T  soft  butter 

2  t  B.  P.  IT  lard 
2-3  C  sugar  1  egg 

%  t  salt  V-2  C  milk  (may  not  need  all) 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  together;  rub  in 
with  a  paddle,  butter  and  lard.  Beat  egg  to  stiff  froth,  add  milk 
and  mix  with  other  ingredients. 

For  soft  cookies  roll  out  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  For  crisp 
snaps  knead  in  more  flour  and  roll  thin;  any  flavor  may  be  ad- 
ded to  the  milk  and  eggs,  or  the  three,  vanilla,  lemon  and  orange. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Davidson. 

BREAD  DOUGHNUTS 

1  cake  Fleischman's  Yeast  %  C  sugar 

1%  C  milk  3  T  butter 

1  T  sugar  ^  t  mace 

4y2  C  sifted  flour  1  egg 
%  t  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  and  T  sugar  in  luke  warm  liquid.  Add  1% 
cup  flour  and  beat  well.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place  for  about  1  hour.  Then  add  to  the  mixture  above  the  but- 
ter and  %  cup  sugar  well  creamed,  mace,  egg  well  beaten,  the 
remainder  of  flour  to  make  a  moderately  soft  dough,  add  the 
salt.  Knead  lightly.  Place  in  well  greased  bowl,  cover  and  allow 
to  rise  again  in  a  warm  place  about  one  hour.  Then  roll  out  to 
14  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Place  on 
greased  tins;  allow  to  rise  one  hour.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  a 
golden  brown.    Drain  on  brown  paper;  roll  in  sugar. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

BROWNIES 

3  well  beaten  eggs  2  squares  chocolate — melted 
1  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

i/i  C  butter — melted  1  C  chopped  nuts 

1/2  C  flour 

Mix  in  the  order  given.  Spread  thin  on  well  greased  pans. 
Bake  slowly.    When  baked  cut  in  squares  while  hot. 

Mrs.  0.  G.  Hutchison. 

BRAMBLES 

1  C  raisins  Crust 

1  C  sugar  2  C  flour 

1  egg  1  C  lard 

1  lemon  6  T  ice  water 

Mix  the  flour  and  lard,  moisten  with  the  ice  water  and  roll 
out  as  for  pie  crust.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  sugar  and  raisins  and 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon.    Roll  out  the  crust  %  inch 

—253— 


thick  and  spread  with  a  little  butter  cut  into  five  inch  squares. 
Spread  one  diagonal  half  of  each  square  with  the  mixture,  fold 
the  other  half  over  it,  pinch  the  edges  together,  and  bake.  Will 
make  little  triangular  cakes  when  done.  Very  good  for 
luncheon. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 

BUTTERSCOTCH]  COOKIES 

1  C  butter  1  t  soda 

4  C  B.  sugar  6y>  C  flour 

4  eggs 

Make  in  loaf  and  let  stand  over  night  in  ice  box.    In  morn- 
ing slice  thin  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 


BERLINERKRAUSE— DANISH  COOKIES 

1  lb.  butter,  fresh  not  too  salty      7  egg-yolks 
1  lb.  flour  y2  lb.  sugar 

Boil  three  eggs  hard  and  pulverize  the  yolks.  Mix  butter 
well  creamed  with  sugar  and  boiled  yolks.  Add  flour.  Make  into 
sheet,  cut  in  strips  and  roll  with  the  hands  forming  circle  four 
inches  in  diameter.  Place  one  end  over  the  other.  Dip  this 
into  the  white  of  eggs  and  sprinkle  well  with  crushed  loaf  sugar. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 


COMFITS 

4  eggs  5  C  flour  sifted 

2  C  sugar  5  t  B.  P.  put  in  last  with  three 

2  C  milk  cups  of  flour 

Cream  the  egg-yolks  and  sugar.  Beat  egg-whites,  add  butter, 
flour  then  little  egg-whites  and  repeat  the  process — then  add 
last  three  cups  of  flour  with  baking  powder.  1  t  salt  and  1  t  of 
vanilla  or  lemon,  fry  in  deep  fat.    Dropping  dough  from  spoon. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Whitney. 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES 

1  C  butter  2%  C  flour 

1%  C  sugar  1  t  cinnamon 

3  eggs,  beaten  light  y2  t  cloves 

1  lb.  dates,  cut  small  pieces  1  t  soda  in  3  T  hot  water 

2  lb.  English  walnuts — broken      1  T  candied  orange  peel, 
up  chopped  fine 

Mix  in  order  given — drop  in  small  spoonfuls  on  greased  pan, 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 

—254— 


COOKIES 

1  C  butter  V/2  C  sugar 

y2  G  hot  water  1  G  currants 

3  C  flour  1  t  soda 
%  t  nutmeg 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  sugar,  then  eggs  well  beaten. 
Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water.  Stir  in  flour  and  nutmeg,  then  cur- 
rants. Drop  batter  by  spoonsful  in  well  buttered  tins,  allowing 
room  for  spreading.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

CHOCOLATE  BROWNIES 

%  C  chocolate  1  C  nuts 

V2  C  butter  %  C  flour 

1  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  together.  Add  ingredients  in  their 
order.    Bake  slowly  for  30  minutes.    Cut  in  squares  while  hot. 

Christina  Ross  Haun 

CHOCOLATE  DOUGHNUTS 

%  C  butter  1^  square  chocolate 

1%  C  sugar  1  t  soda,  dissolved 
2  eggs  in  milk 

1  C  sour  milk  1  t  cinnamon 

4  C  pastry  flour  %  t  vanilla 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  roll  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  Norton. 

CHOCOLATE  FRUIT  COOKIES 

14  C  butter  2  eggs 

1  C  sugar  1  C  raisins 

2  T  grated  chocolate  1  pt.  flour  (at  first) 
2  T  water  2  t  B.  P. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Mix  chocolate  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  the  water  and  then  add  to  the  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  eggs,  raisins,  one  pint  of  flour,  baking  powder.  Then 
add  more  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  quite  thin.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

CREAM  PUFF  SHELLS 

4  eggs  1  C  flour 

1  C  butter  1  C  boiling  water 

Melt  butter  in  boiling  water  and  stir  well,  add  flour  while 
boiling;  stir  well  and  cook  until  a  thick  paste.  Cool.  When 
cool,  add  the  eggs  beaten  well.  Drop  on  buttered  tins,  bake 
slowly  30  or  40  minutes.    Fill  with  cream  custard  when  cold. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Allen. 


-255— 


COOKIES 

2  C  sugar  1  t  soda  in  sour  milk 

3  eggs  •>  r  butter 
14  C  sour  milk                                     Y2  C  lard 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  eggs.  Dis- 
solve soda  in  the  milk  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Add  just  enough 
flour  to  roll.    Cut  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

DATE  BARS 

1  C  sugar  1  t  B.  P. 

3  eggs  1  t  vanilla 

V8  t  salt  1  lb.  dates 

1  C  flour  1  C  chopped  nuts 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  and  add  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring. 
Mix  dates,  nuts,  flour  and  baking  powder,  together,  and  add 
eggs  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Cut  while  hot  into  bars 
of  the  size  desired,  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

DATE  CAKES 

1  C  butter  3  C  flour 

V/2  C  sugar  3  eggs 

!/4  t  cloves  1  t  cinnamon 

3  T  hot  water  1  t  soda 

IMj  lb.  English  walnuts,  1  lb.  dates 

unshelled  l1/^  T  vinegar 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  vinegar,  soda,  dissolve 
in  hot  water,  flour  sifted  with  cinnamon  and  cloves,  then  put 
in  nuts  and  dates,  drop  by  spoonsful  on  buttered  tin  or  bake  in 
small  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

DATE  COOKIES 

1  C  butter  1  lb.  English  walnuts 

V/2  C  sugar  2  t  soda 

2V2  C  flour  3  t  hot  water 

3  eggs  1  t  cinnamon 

1  lb.  dates  14  t  cloves 

Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water;  beat  eggs;  seed  and  chop  dates; 
break  nuts  in  small  pieces;  stir  all  together.  Flour  tins,  drop 
with  teaspoon  far  apart.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

DATE  STICKS 

2  eggs 

1  C  sugar  3y2  T  flour 

1  lb.  dates  1  t  B.  P. 

1  C  nuts  i/8  t  salt 

Mix  in  the  order  given.  Bake  in  very  slow  oven  in  thin 
sheets,  cut  in  sticks. 


-256— 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  C  sugar  1  t  soda 

1  C  sour  milk  14  t  salt 

2  eggs  1  qt.  flour 
5  T  melted  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  milk  first.     Sift  flour,  soda  and  salt  three 
times.    Add  5  T  melted  butter. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


DOUGHNUTS 

2  C  hot  mashed  potatoes  Y-2  T  nutmeg 

2  C  sugar  3  T  melted  butter 
1  C  milk  5  C  flour 

3  eggs  (beaten  separately)  5  t  B.  P. 
1  t  salt 

Mix  potatoes  with  sugar,  add  milk,  eggs,  salt,  nutmeg,  but- 
ter.   Add  flour  into  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 


DATE  CONFECTIONS 

Y2  lb.  almonds  (unblanched)  2  C  sugar 

%  lb.  dates  1%  t  vanilla 

4  egg-whites 

Beat  egg-^fliites.  Add  sugar,  dates,  almonds  and  vanilla. 
Drop  on  buttered  tins,  bake  in  moderate  oven  till  light  brown. 
Leave  on  buttered  tins  until  cold. 

Mrs.  Erwin  Taft. 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 

2  eggs  lemon 

1  1-3  C  sugar  Y2  t  soda 

2  T  butter,  melted  4  t  B.  P. 

Y±  C  melted  lard  Salt  and  grated  nutmeg 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 
Roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  cut  into  desired  size,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  When  done  roll  in  pulverized  sugar.  They  should  brown 
and  cook  quickly.  To  test  break  one  open  to  see  if  it  is  cooked 
through. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 
(Given  by  Mrs.  Norton) 


-257— 


FRUIT  COOKIES 

2  C  sugar  V2  C  nuts 

1  C  raisins  x/-z  C  hot  water 

y2  C  lard  41/2  C  bread  flour 

y2  C  butter  1%  T  vanilla 

2  eggs  1  T  soda 

Cream  butter,  lard  and  sugar;  then  add  the  raisins  chopped 
and  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  flour;  then  the  beaten  eggs,  nuts 
and  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water;  then  the  flour  and  vanilla. 
Roll,  cut,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

GINGER  CREAMS 

1  C  sugar  V-z   t   each  cinnamon,   cloves 

3/4  C  molasses  and  nutmeg 

]/o  C  fat  (butter  or  any  of  the     2  t  soda 

substitutes)  1  C  hot  water 

1  egg  S1/*  C  flour 

1  t  ginger 

Sift  3  cups  of  flour  and  spices  together,  the  one  half  cup 
is  set  aside  for  further  use.  Mix  sugar,  fat  and  molasses  together, 
then  beat  in  egg  until  it  is  creamy.  Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water 
and  add  to  mixture  then  stir  until  smooth.  Add  flour  and  beat. 
This  should  be  the  consistence  to  drop  easily  from  a  spoon.  If 
too  thin  add  the  half  cup  flour.  Drop  from  spoon  and  bake. 
These  cakes  are  glazed  over  with  following  icing. 

2  T  melted  butter  2  C  powdered  sugar 

1  to  3  T  warm  coffee,  beat  to  cream  and  spread  on  cakes. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lassen. 

GINGER  WAFERS 

1  C  butter  2  C  sugar,  sifted 

1  C  water  4  C  flour,  sifted 

Ginger  to  taste 

Beat  thoroughly.  Use  if  possible,  baking  sheets,  or  rimless 
cooking  pans,  or  the  bottom  of  baking  pans  turned  upside  down. 
Bake  slowly,  watch  carefully  to  avoid  scorching.  Remove  from 
oven  to  straight  rolls  or  cornucopias.  These  wafers  will  be 
brittle  as  soon  as  they  are  cold,  so  must  be  handled  quickly. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 

HERMITS 

3  C  flour  3  eggs 

1V2  C  sugar  1  C  butter 

1%  C  raisins  1M>  C  nuts 

1  t  cloves  1  t  cinnamon 

i/2  t  ginger  %  t  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  eggs  beaten  light.  Mix 
flour,  spices,  raisins,  and  nuts.  Add  soda,  in  ^  C  of  boiling 
water  to  egg  mixture,  then  combine  the  2  mixtures. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

—258— 


HERMITS 

1  egg  %  t  B.  P. 

1  C  sugar  V2  t  cloves 
1-3  C  butter  V2  t  cinnamon 

2  C  flour  %  t  nutmeg 
1-3  C  sweet  milk  y2  t  allspice 

y2  t  soda  %  C  chopped  raisins 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  soda 
and  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Add  alternately  with  milk 
to  the  mixture.  Add  raisins  and  spices.  Drop  from  spoon  into 
greased  pan  and  bake. 

Mrs.  0.  G.  Hutchison. 

JAPANESE  HARD  TACK 

12  dates  %  c  flour 

12  walnuts  1  t  B.  P. 

1  lb.  orange  marmalade  2  eggs 

1  C  sugar 

Stone  dates  and  chop  with  walnuts.  Sift  sugar,  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Add  beaten  eggs  then  fruit  and  nuts.  Mix  well. 
Spread  on  greased  roasting  pan  and  bake  20  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.    Cut  in  bars  and  roll  in  sugar. 

To  double  recipe  use  3  eggs,  add  a  little  water  and  double 
amount  of  other  ingredients. 

Margaret  Long  Stanley. 

KISSES 

2  egg-whites  y2  C  cocoanut  (dry) 
V2  C  sugar                                            1  t  vanilla 

2  C  Post  Toasties 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually — then  add  Post  Toasties, 
cocoanut  and  flavoring.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Makes  16. 

Christina  Ross  Haun. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES 

1  C  sugar  1  t  ginger 

1  C  molasses  2  t  cinnamon 

1  C  butter  (large  cup)  1  t  soda   (in  C  water  or  C  of 

i/i  t  salt  coffee) 

Mix  in  order  given,  knead  the  dough  soft. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES 

1  C  sugar  1  T  ginger 

1  C  molasses  1  t  cinnamon 

y2  C  butter  1/2  t  salt 

%  C  lard  '2  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  T  soda  5  C  flour 

Reserve  one  C  of  the  flour  for  rolling  the  cookies. 

Mix  in  the  order  given.  Roll  one  half  inch  thick  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 


-259— 


MOLASSES  COOKIES  AND  SNAPS 

1  C  molasses  Vl>  C  raisins 

1  C  B.  sugar  2  t  soda 

2-3  C  butter  %  t  vanilla 

1  t  ginger  4%  C  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  molasses  and  flavoring  with  4 
C  flour  and  soda.  Take  one  half  of  mixture  and  roll  %  inch 
thick;  sift  over  with  granulated  sugar;  place  raisin  in  center,  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Add  %  C  flour  to  remainder  roll,  thin, 
and  bake  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 
NUT  COOKIES 

l1/;  C  sugar  1  lb.  raisins 

1  C  butter  1  lb.  nuts 

3  eggs  1  t  cinnamon 

2%  C  flour  y4  t  cloves 

1  t  salt  1  t  soda 

8  T  boiling  water 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  salt  and  flour.  Add  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water.  Then  add  raisins,  nuts,  cinnamon  and 
cloves.  Drop  with  spoon  in  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  moder- 
ate oven. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Steel. 
OATMEAL  COOKIES 

1  C  butter  2  C  raisins 

1  C  sugar  8  t  milk 

2  G  flour  1  t  cinnamon 
2  C  oatmeal  flakes  Vo  t  soda 

%  t  salt 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  other  ingredients. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  on  well  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

PECAN  WAFERS 

1  C  B.  sugar  '4  t  salt 

2  eggs  1  C  pecans 

3  T  flour  1  t  vanilla 
U  t  B.  P. 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  the  order  given  and  spread 
out  very  thin  on  a  baking  sheet  or  buttered  pan  and  bake  10 
minutes  in  modern  oven.     Cut  into  squares  while  warm. 

Mrs.  Robert  B.  Campbell. 

POTATOE  DOUGHNUTS 

%  C  sugar  1  egg-white 

2V>  C  flour  3  t  B.  P. 

1/4  C  milk  1  T  butter 

1  C  potatoes  1  t  salt 

3  eggs  1  t  mace 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Stir 
in  the  potatoes  and  milk.     Sift  baking  powder  with  the  flour 

—260— 


and  add  salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  and  add  to  first  mixture  work- 
ing in  additional  flour  as  necessary  to  handle  lightly.  Roll  and 
cut  all  doughnuts  before  attending  to  frying.  Have  lard  three 
inches  deep  in  kettle,  and  test  temperature  with  a  small  cake 
cut  from  the  center  of  the  doughnut. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

ROCKS 

iy2  C  B.  sugar  1  C  butter 

3  eggs  A  little  salt 

3  C  flour  1  t  soda 

1  t  cinnamon  1  C  chopped  nuts 
1%  G  raisins  or  dates  1  t  B.  P. 

Cream  butter  and  brown  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  cin- 
namon and  salt.  Add  the  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  the 
baking  powder  and  soda.  Then  add  nuts,  raisins  and  dates. 
Mix  well  and  drop  on  greased  pan  and  bake. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

2  C  sugar  2  t  B.  P. 
2-3  C  butter  2  t  vanilla 
2  eggs  1  t  salt 

1  C  sweet  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  eggs  well  beaten  then 
the  milk,  B.  P.,  vanilla  and  salt.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough;  roll  very  thin;  cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

1  C  butter  3  eggs 

2  C  sugar  y2  t  nutmeg 

1  C  milk  3  t  B.  P. 

2  C  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Sift 
B.  P.  in  flour.    Roll  out  soft  as  you  can,  cut. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Allen. 

VANITIES 

2  eggs  1  C  flour 

1  T  butter  14  C  powdered  sugar 

1  T  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs  and  flour,  roll 
very  thin,  cut  out  with  cookey  cutter,  drop  in  hot  fat  when 
light-brown,  turn  over  and  lift  out  with  large  fork — sift  over  P. 
sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.    Will  make  25. 

Mrs.  Barnes. 


-261— 


PICKLES 


PICKLES 


Celery  French  Pickles 

Cherry  Olives  for  Pickles 

Chili  Sauce 

Chili  Sauce 

Chow  Chow 

Corn  Relish 

Corn  Relish 

Cucumber  Pickles,  French 

Cucumber  and  Onion  Pickle 

Delicious  Pickles 

Favorite  Pickle,  My  Mother's 

Meat  Relish 
Mexican  Relish 
Mixed  Pickles 
Mustard  Pickles 

Pepper  Hash  Pickle 
Pickled  Oysters 

Sliced  Tomato  Pickles 
Spiced  Pickled  Eggs 
Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 
Sweet  Pickles 

Tiny  Tim  Pickles 
Tomato  Pickle,  Green 
Tomato  Pickles,  Sliced 
Tomato  Relish 
Tomato  Relish,  Green 
Tomato  Sweet  Pickles 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  Smyth. 
Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 
Mrs.  Steel. 
Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Millison. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

Mrs.  Zartman. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 
Cooking  Club. 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 
Mrs.  Baldwin. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 
Mrs.  R.  L.  Millison. 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 
Mrs.  Cheser  I.  Long. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 
Cooking  Club. 
Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 
Cooking  Club. 
Mrs.  Strong. 


-264- 


CELERY  FRENCH  PICKLES 

1  pk.  cucumbers,  pared  %  lb.  mustard  seed 

2  heads  cabbage  2  oz.  celery 

1  doz.  green  peppers  1  oz.  tumerac 

1  doz.  large  onions  3  C  sugar 

1  gal.  vinegar 

Chop  cucumber,  cabbage,  peppers  and  onions  fine,  salt  down 
over  night,  squeeze  out  next  morning.  Then  mix  with  celery, 
mustard,  tumerac,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  seal 
in  jars. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 

CHERRY  OLIVES  FOR  PICKLES 

Fill  a  jar  with  clean  ripe  cherries  with  stems.  Mix  1  cup 
soft  water,  1  cup  vinegar,  1  T  salt,  1  T  sugar  together  and  cover 
cherries.     Seal.     No  cooking.     Everything  cold. 

Mrs.  Smyth. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Y2  bu.  ripe  tomatoes  1  doz.  mango  peppers 

3  medium  sized  onions  %  doz.  small  red  peppers 
5  t  black  pepper                                  5  t  ground  cloves 

5  T  salt  5  C  vinegar 

5  C  B.  sugar  (small) 

Chop  or  run  through  grinder.  Boil  1  hour.  Will  make 
15  pts. 

Mrs.  Finlay  Ross. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

8  qt.  tomatoes  2  C  onion,  ground 

1%  C  green  peppers,  ground  3  C  sugar 

V2  C  salt  1  pt.  vinegar 

2  t  cinnamon  1  t  ginger 
2  t  nutmeg  1  t  cloves 
!/4  t  red  pepper 

Add  spices  and  vinegar  and  cook  for  about  2  hrs. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

CHOW  CHOW 

Chop  fine  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  heads  of  cabbage, 
yix  large  onions,  six  green,  and  three  red  peppers.  Sprinkle  over 
the  mixture  one  teacup  of  salt,  let  it  sand  for  twelve  hours,  then 
drain.  Heat  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  quarts  of  water,  and  lump 
of  alum  size  of  hickory  nut  dissolved  in  it.  Put  chow  in  and  scald 
a  few  minutes,  then  drain.  Heat  one  gallon  of  good  vinegar 
with  four  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  two  of 
allspice,  one  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg  grated.  Put  chow  in  and 
scald  a  few  minutes,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowrv. 


—265- 


CORN  RELISH 

12  ears  corn  1  qt.  C  sugar 

12  green  peppers,  chopped  l1/*  qts.  vingar 

1  qt.  onions,  after  chopped  1  oz.  celery  seed 

1  qt.  cucumbers,  after  chopped  1  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

2  qts.     ripe     tomatoes,     after     3  large  red  peppers 
chopped 

Cook  50  minutes  or  a  little  longer,  if  too  thin.    Can  while  hot. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

CORN  RELISH  OR  DELICIOUS  PICKLE 

2  qt.  tomatoes  1  doz  ears  corn  or  2  cans 

1  qt.  onion  1  doz  green  mango  peppers 

1  qt.  cucumbers  3  red  chile  peppers 

1  qt.  sugar  V-2  oz.  tumeric 

2  qt.  vinegar  1  C  salt 
y%  oz.  celery 

Cut  corn  off  the  cob,  chop  or  put  through  the  grinder  toma- 
toes, onions,  cucumbers  and  peppers.  Put  all  the  ingredients 
together  and  boil  40  minutes.     Seal  in  glass  jars  while  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

1  gal  vinegar  1  C  sugar 

1  C  mustard  cucumbers    (number     depends 

1  C  salt  on  size  of  them) 

To  vinegar,  add  other  ingredients  and  put  in  half  gallon  jars 
and  seal. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Steel. 

CUCUMBER  AND  ONION  PICKLE 

12  large  cucumbers,  sliced  1  qt.  vinegar 

12  large  onions,  sliced  1  oz.  mustard  seed 

1   pound  sugar  1  t  white  pepper 

Let  cucumbers  stand  in  salt  water  over  night.  Drain  well  and 
then  add  all  other  ingredients.    Let  boil  up.     Can  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Oak  Throckmorton 

DELICIOUS  PICKLES 

1  doz.  ears  corn  %  C  salt 

1  pt.  onions  after  cut  in  small     2  pts.  vinegar 

pieces  1  pt.  sugar 

1  doz.  green  peppers  1  oz.  mustard  seed 

1  pt.  ripe  cucumbers  %  oz.  tumeric 

2y2  pts.  ripe  tomatoes  3  large  peppers 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  add  onions  chopped  fine  then  peppers, 
cucumbers,  tomatoes,  red  peppers  chopped  fine.     Add  to  this 
the  salt,  vinegar,  sugar,  mustard  seed  and  last  the  tumeric. 
Boil  50  minutes  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 

—266— 


FAVORITE  PICKLE,  MY  MOTHER'S 
1  qt.  raw  cabbage,  chopped  fine      1  C  sugar 
1  qt.  boiled  beets,  chopped  fine     1  t  salt 
1  t  black  pepper  %  t  red  pepper 

1  t  grated  horseradish 

Cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  keep  from  air. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

MEAT  RELISH 
4  C  beets  2  C  cabbage 

1  C  sugar  %  C  horseradish,  grated 

Ys  t  salt  vinegar  to  cover 

Mix  diced  beets  finely  chopped  cabbage,  sugar  and  grated 
horseradish  (the  bottled  will  do),  salt,  cover  with  vinegar.  It 
makes  an  unusually  fine  relish,  can  be  made  quickly  and  can 
be  used  at  once. 

Mrs.  Ed.  Zartman. 

MEXICAN  RELISH 

1  can  pimento,  cut  fine  2  C  chopped  sweet  cucumber 

2  C  chopped  onion  pickle 

%  C  sugar  1  C  vinegar 

2  C  chopped  cabbage  1  level  t  salt 

Mix  well  but  do  not  cook. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Rlack. 

MIXED  PICKLES 
1  pk.  green  tomatoes  3  C  strong  vinegar 

1  good  sized  cauliflower  1  C  water 

3  cucumbers  2  C  sugar 

4  large  onions,  sliced  4  T  salt 

Slice  and  let  green  tomatoes  stand  in  salt  over  night;  drain  off 
in  the  morning.'   Cook  thoroughly  till  done. 

Cooking  Club. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 
1  qt.  tomatoes,  green  1  qt.  vinegar 

1  qt.  onions  2  C  sugar 

1  qt.  cauliflower  1  C  flour 

1  qt.  cucumbers  6  T  mustard 

1  T  tumeric 
Chop   coarse   and  prepare  for  pickling 
Cook  and  then  add  chopped  stuff.    Seal. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 

PEPPER  HASH  PICKLE 
12  red  sweet  peppers  3  onions 

12  green  sweet  peppers 

Grind  in  meat  grinder  or  cut  in  small  pieces.    Pour  boiling 
water  over  mixture  and  let  stand  ten  minutes.     Repeat  second 
time;  drain  each  time. 
3  T  salt  2  C  sugar 

2  pt.  vinegar 

Cook  all  15  minutes.    Can. 

Mrs.  Gilbert  Tucker. 


-267- 


PICKLED  OYSTERS 

s  t  salt  1  doz.  whole  cloves 

1  qt.  large  oysters  1  doz.  whole  black  peppers 

1  pt.  white  vinegar  Vi  doz.  red  pepper,  broken  in- 

1  doz.  blades  mace  to  bits. 

Put  oysters  and  liquor  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  heat 
slowly  until  very  hot,  not  boiling.  Take  out  the  oysters  and  to 
the  liquor  add  vinegar  and  spices.  Let  boil  up  fairly  well,  then 
pour  this  over  the  oysters.  Cover  the  jar  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.  Next  day  put  them  into  glass  jars  with  tight  tops.  Keep 
in  the  dark  where  not  liable  to  become  heated.  May  be  kept 
at  least  3  weeks. 

Mrs.  Baldwin. 

SLICED  TOMATO  PICKLES 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  1  T  cinnamon 

1  doz  onions  1  T  allspice 

6  red  peppers  1  T  cloves 

1  C  sugar  Cayenne  pepper  to  taste 

1  T  mustard  3  pts  vinegar 

Put  in  preserving  kettle,  alternating  tomatoes  and  onions. 
Mix  spices  and  sugar  with  the  vinegar;  pour  over  all.  Let  boil 
slowly  until  very  tender. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Lowry. 

SPICED  PICKLED  EGGS 

Take  as  many  hard  boiled  eggs  as  will  fill  a  jar.  Scald  vine- 
gar enough  to  cover,  add  pepper,  allspice,  cloves,  and  a  stick  of 
cinnamon.  Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  eggs  and  seal.  Let  stand 
a  month  before  serving.    Serve  with  cold  meats. 

Mrs.  Ralph.  L.  Millison 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES 

8  lbs.  peaches  1  doz.  cloves 

6*  lbs.  sugar  few  sticks  whole  cinnamon 

1  pt.  vinegar 

I  oil  all  together  until  peaches  are  tender. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

SWEET  PICKLE 

2  T  alum  2  oz.  cinnamon 

7  lb.  melon  rind  or  fruit  1  oz  mace 
%  C  salt  V-2  oz.  cloves 

2  gal.  water  1  qt.  vinegar 

3  lb.  sugar 

Lay  fruit  in  brine  over  night  made  of  the  water  and  salt.  In 
morning  pour  off  brine  and  dissolve  alum  in  2  gal.  of  water.  Pour 
over  fruit  and  boil  y2  hour.  Pour  off  this  water  and  add  to  the 
fruit  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  mace,  cloves  and  vinegar,  and  boil 
30  minutes.  Or  heat  syrup  daily  and  pour  over  fruit  for  6  days, 
not  boiling  fruit. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

—268— 


TINY  TIM  PICKLES 

Select  tiny  cucumbers  of  uniform  size,  pour  on  hot  brine 
and  boil  10  min.,  let  stand  24  hrs.  Take  out  and  wash  well,  then 
cover  them  with  vinegar  and  water  (half  and  half)  and  let  stand 
5  days,  put  in  glass  jars  and  pour  over  them  the  following  liquid: 

1  gal.  vinegar  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

1  lb.  sugar  1  stick  horseradish 

1  T  cloves  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

1  T  black  peppers,  whole  1  oz.  ginger  root 

12  green  peppers,  cut  up  %  oz  whole  mace 

1  bunch  garlic  %  oz.  allspice 

Put  above  ingredients  on  stove  and  boil  together  till  pep- 
pers are  perfectly  soft.  It  is  better  not  strained.  Recipe  makes 
about  8  quarts. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


TOMATO  PICKLES,  GREEN 


1  pk.  green  tomatoes 

2  T  cinnamon 

%  pk.  onions 

2  T  ginger 

y-2  lb.  mustard  seed 

2  T  black  pepper 

2  lb.  R.  sugar 

2  T  Curry  powder 

y2  t  Cayenne  pepper 

2  T  celery  seed 

2  t  mace 

2  T  tumeric 

2  t  allspice 

1  gal  vinegar 

2  t  cloves 

Vi  C  horseradish 

Drain  green  tomatoes  and  onions  over  night.  Put  in  kettle 
and  sprinkle  with  mustard  seed.  Mix  brown  sugar  and  spices 
together  with  a  little  cold  vinegar,  then  add  enough  to  make  a 
gallon;  sprinkle  horseradish  in;  cook  until  tomatoes  are  a  bright 
yellow.    This  is  splendid. 

Cooking  Club. 

TOMATO  PICKLES,  SLICED 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes  6  large  green  peppers 
12  good  sized  onions  %  C  salt 

3  large  red  peppers  1%  lb.  R.  sugar 

2  qts.  vinegar  4  doz.  cloves 

1  oz.  celery  1%  T  ground  mustard 

^4  lb-  white  mustard  seed  2  T  mixed  spices 

Slice  onions,  tomatoes,  and  peppers;  salt;  let  stand  over 
night;  drain;  cover  with  1  pt.  vinegar,  1  pt.  water,  and  cook  20 
min.  Let  stand  all  day,  and  drain  at  night.  Let  vinegar,  sugar 
and  spices  come  to  a  boil;  pour  over  pickles.  When  cold  add  % 
C  vinegar  mixed  with  mustard.  This  will  keep  in  stone  jars 
where  it  is  cool. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Rarnes. 

—269— 


TOMATO  RELISH 

V2  pk.  tomatoes  1  C  horseradish 

6  large  onions  1  C  sugar 

4  bunches  celery  V-i  C  salt 

1  oz.  white  mustard  seed  1  qt.  cider  vinegar 

Chop  tomatoes,  tie  in  bag  and  let  all  water  drop  out  over 
night,  buy  horseradish  and  grind  in.    Seal  without  cooking. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Lewis. 

TOMATO  RELISH,  GREEN 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes  2  lb.  R.  sugar 

6  large  onions  2  T  white  mustard  seed 

6  green  sweet  peppers  1  T  ground  cinnamon 

2  C  celery,  chopped  white  vinegar 
1  C  salt 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions,  peppers,  celery,  fine,  and  mix  salt 
with  it.  Then  put  in  cloth  and  drain  all  night.  Then  take  brown 
sugar,  mustard  seed  and  cinnamon,  cover  with  white  vinegar, 
and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Cooking  Club. 

TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLES 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  stand  24  hrs. 
and  then  soak  fresh.  Scald  with  weak  vinegar  and  wash  in 
fresh  water.  Let  stand  a  while.  To  5  lbs.  of  tomatoes,  use  4 
lbs.  sugar,  and  vinegar  enough  to  make  a  syrup  to  cover  them. 
After  vinegar  and  sugar  boil,  put  in  tomatoes  and  scald  until 
clear,  add  whole  mace  and  cinnamon.  Just  before  taking  off 
range,  add  1  lb.  of  raisins  left  on  the  stem.  Let  remain  on  fire 
until  well  plumped  out. 

Mrs.  Strong. 


-270— 


Conserves 


CONSERVE 


Amber  Preserves 

Blue  Plum  Conserve 

Cranberry  Jelly 

English  Rhubarb 

Four  Fruit  Jam 
Fruit  Conserve 

Gooseberry  Conserve 

Green  Grape  Conserve 

Grape  Fruit  or  Orange  Straws 

Ginger  Pairs 

Grape  Conserve 

Peach  and  Orange  Marmalade 
Peach  Pineapple 
Pear  Conserve 

Quince  Marmalade 

Red  Tomato  Preserves 
Rhubarb  Raisin   and  Black- 
berry Conserve 

Strawberry  Preserves 
Strawberry   Preserves 
Spiced   Gooseberries 
Spiced  Peaches  or  Pears 

Tomato  Marmalade 
Tutti  Frutti  Jam 


Mrs.  C.  L.  Jackson 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Strong 
Mrs.  G.  N.  Dickson 
Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 
Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 

Mrs.  Black 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell 

Mrs.  Ross 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn 

Mrs.  Newton  Garst 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden 
Mrs.  E.  G.  Robertson 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Cooking  Club 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 


-274- 


AMEER  MARMALADE 

Shave  one  orange,  one  lemon  and  one  grapefruit  very  thin, 
rejecting  seeds  and  cores.  Measure  fruit  and  add  three  times 
the  quantity  of  water.  Let  it  stand  over  night  in  earthen  dish 
and  in  the  morning  let  it  boil  for  two  minutes,  only.  Let  stand 
another  night,  and  the  second  morning,  add  pint  for  pint  of 
sugar.  Boil  until  it  jellies,  possibly  two  hours.  Stir  as  little  as 
possible,  the  strips  of  fruit  should  be  well  defined.  This  makes 
twelve  glasses. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson. 


BLUE  PLUM  CONSERVE 

3  lbs.  plum  1  lb.  English  walnuts 

3  lbs.  sugar  3  oranges 

1  lb.  raisins 

Cut  raisins  and  nuts  in  small  pieces  and  the  rind  of  one 
orange  cut  small.  Juice  and  pulp  of  three  oranges.  Mix  all  the 
ingredients  except  nuts,  and  cook  one  hour  over  slow  fire.  Add 
nuts  just  before  taking  from  fire. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY 

1  qt.  cranberries  1  pt.  sugar 

1  pt.  water 

Boil  cranberries  and  water  five  minutes,  then  strain  and  boil 
five  minutes,  add  sugar,  boil  five  minutes  more  and  turn  in 
mold. 

Mrs.  Finley  Ross. 

ENGLISH  RHUBARB  JAM 

3  lbs  rhubarb  3  oranges 

3  lbs.  sugar 

Cut  up  rhubarb,  put  %  lb-  of  sugar  over  it  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Chop,  peel  and  pulp  oranges  separately  and  put 
2^4  lb.  of  sugar  over  it  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing boil  rhubarb  until  tender,  add  oranges  and  cook  thirty  min. 
or  until  it  jellies. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


FOUR  FRUIT  JAM 

2  qt.  cherries  1  qt.  currants 

1  qt.  red  raspberries  1  qt.  gooseberries 

12  cloves  %  lb.  sugar 

Cook  slowly  for  3  hrs.  or  until  the  consistency  required. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


—275- 


FRUIT  CONSERVE 

1  qt.  pie-plant  2  oranges 

1  qt.  cherries  2  lemons 

1  qt.  currant  juice  1  lb.  English  walnuts 

1  pt.  raspberries  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

Pare,  rind  and  thick  white  of  lemons  and  oranges.  Chop 
pulp  fine.  Stew  like  preserves,  add  lemons,  oranges  and  nuts 
at  the  last. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

GOOSEBERRY  CONSERVE 

5  lb.  gooseberries  1%  lb.  raisins 
4  lb.  sugar                                           4  oranges 

Chop  raisins  fine,  add  gooseberries  and  sugar,  then  oranges, 
juice  and  rind  chopped  fine.     Cook  30  min. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Strong. 

GREEN  GRAPE  CONSERVE 

1  glass  grapes  1  glass  sugar 

4  T  water 

Cook  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  then  add  grapes  and 
cook  until  tender. 

Mrs.  G.  N.  Dickson. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  OR  ORANGE  STRAWS 

4  oranges  5  C  granulated  sugar 

The  rinds  of  four  oranges  or  fruit,  cut  into  fine  strips. 
Put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to 
the  boiling  point,  pour  off  the  water  and  again  cover  with 
cold  water.  Do  this  three  times,  then  cook  until  tender — 
drain.  Have  ready  a  thick  syrup  jade  of  4  cups  sugar  and  2 
cups  water  boiled  together  5  minutes.  Drop  straws  into 
white  paper  over  your  bread-board,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
allow  to  dry  over  night. 

Mrs.   A.   O.  Rorabaugh. 

GINGER  PEARS 

8  lb.  hard  pears  *4  lb.  green  ginger  root 

6  lb.  granulated  sugar  1  C  water 
4  lemons 

Slice  pears  very  thin,  use  juice  and  yellow  part  of  lemons. 
Cut  ginger  in  small  pieces.  Cook  well  for  3  hours,  or  until  a  rich 
golden  color. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


-276- 


GRAPE  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  New  York  grapes  1  lb.  nut  meats 

3  lbs.  sugar  2  lbs.  seedless  raisins 

Squeeze  out  pulp — cook — rub  out  seeds,  add  the  skins  to 
pulp  and  other  ingredients — pour  in  glasses  and  cover  with  par- 
afine. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 

PEACH-PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE 

6  lbs.  peaches  4  lbs.  oranges 

5  lbs.  sugar  4  lbs.  lemons 

-  Use  juice  and  grated  rind  of  oranges  and  lemons.     Cook 
until  clear. 

Mrs.  Black. 

PEACH-PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE 

2  qts.  sliced  peaches  sugar  and  water 

1  pt.  can  grated  pineapple 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  enough  peaches  to  make  two  quarts, 
then  add  a  little  water  and  stew  until  tender.  Mash  the  peaches, 
then  add  the  grated  pineapple.  Allow  three  fourths  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  pulp.     Boilto  a  thick  marmalade  and 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 

PEAR  CONSERVE 

6  lb.  pears  3  oranges 

5  lb.  sugar  %  lb.  raisins 

1  lb.  English  walnuts  Rind  of  2  oranges,  cut  fine 

Cut  pears  in  cubes.    Let  stand  in  sugar  all  night,  simmer 
slowly  20  min.     Then  cook  2  hr.  and  add  walnuts  %  hr.  before 
done. 


Mrs.  Ross. 


QUINCE  MARMALADE 


7  quinces  5  pints  sugar 

2  sour  apples  1  pint  water 

Put  quince  and  apples  through  meat  chopper,  fine.     Cook 
15  or  20  minutes  or  until  it  jells. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 

RED  TOMATO  PRESERVES 
Skin  tomatoes,  weigh,  cook  long  enough  to  cook  through. 
Skim  out  of  water,  and  add,  %  lbs.  sugar  to  1  lb.  tomatoes.    Let 
stand  in  sugar  over  night.    In  A.  M.  add  slices  of  lemon  to  taste. 
Let  cook  until  clear  and  preserved.     Seal. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Horn. 


-277- 


RHUBARB,  RAISIN  AND  BLACKBERRY  CONSERVE 

5  C  Rhubarb  1  Box  Blackberries 

1  lb.  Raisins  8  C  Sugar 

Peel  rhubarb,  cut  in  small  pieces,  clean  and  seed  raisins,  pick 
over  berries.  Arrange  fruit  in  layers  with  sugar,  let  stand  over 
night.  In  morning  cook  over  slow  fire.  Cook  thirty  minutes, 
counting  the  time  when  mixture  begins  to  boil.  Turn  into  glasses. 
Cover  with  paraffin  when  cool. 

Mrs.  Newton  Garst. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

1  qt.  strawberries  1  C  water 

1  qt.  sugar 

Stem,  wash  and  drain  well  the  berries.  Cook  sugar  and 
water  until  ready  to  candy.  Throw  the  berries  into  boiling 
water,  let  boil  hard  2  minutes,  pour  immediately  into  a  colander 
to  drain,  then  cook  3  minutes  in  heavy  syrup.     Can  hot. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

1  lb.  strawberries  1  lb.  sugar 

1  C  water 

Wash  and  stem  berries.  Add  1  cup  water  to  sugar,  cook  to 
a  good  heavy  syrup.  Add  berries  and  cook  fast  for  20  or  25  min. 
Take  from  fire.  When  cold  stir  lightly  as  berries  usually  come 
to  top.    Can  cold. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES 

5  lb.  gooseberries  2  T  cinnamon 

V-2  pt.  vinegar  1  t  mace 

4  lb.  B.  sugar  2  T  cloves 

Boil  2  hours  Mrs.  E.   G.  Robertson. 

SPICED  PEACHES  OR  PEARS 

7  lbs.  fruit  i/2  oz.  whole  allspice 

3%  lbs.  sugar  i/2  oz.  whole  cloves 

1  pt.  vinegar  y2  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

Heat  vinegar  and  sugar  until  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved. 
Tie  the  spices  in  cheese  cloth  bags.  Boil  these  with  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  for  10  min.  Then  have  peeled  and  cut  in  halve  the 
peaches  (quarter  the  pears  unless  very  small.)  Weigh  the 
fruit  and  put  the  boiling  syrup  in.  Boil  until  tender,  then  fill 
sterilized  jars  with  the  fruit  and  pour  over  the  boiling  syrup  and 
seal  at  once. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

—278— 


TOMATO  MARMALADE 

4  lb.  yellow  tomato  2  lemons 

3  lb.  sugar 

Chop  lemons  in  tiny  bits,  boil  tomato  and  lemon,  heat  sugar 
and  add,  boil  until  mixture  thickens— 20  minutes. 

Cooking  Club. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  JAM 

15  lbs.  grapes  3  lb.  sugar 

2  lb.  seeded  raisins  1  lb.  walnut  meats,  broken 

Remove  skin  from  grapes.  Put  pulp  on  the  fire  and  bring  to 
a  boil,  put  this  through  colander,  to  remove  seeds,  then  put  pulp, 
skins  and  sugar  together  and  let  this  boil  for  20  min.  Lastly  add 
raisins  and  nuts,  when  thoroughly  heated  fill  glasses,  when  cold, 
cover  with  paraffine. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 


-279- 


CEREALS 


CEREALS 

Bran  and  Dates 
Bran  Oatmeal 
Bran  and  Prunes 
Bran  and  Raisins 
Breakfast  Food 

Cooking  Mushes 
Corn  Meal  Mush 

Dates  and  Barley 

Nut  Croquettes 

Nut  Loaf 

Oatmeal 
Oatmeal,  Baked 

Rice  au  gratin 

Rice,  Boiled 

Rice,  Canned 

Rice  and  Cheese 

Rice  and  Chicken 

Rice  and  Chipped  Beef 

Rice  Croquettes 

Rice  Dressing 

Rice  and  Fish 

Rice  with  Fruit 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

Rice  Hash,  Baked 

Rice  Imperial  Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

Rice,  Japanese,  Boiled 

Rice,  Mexican  Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

Rice  Muffins 

Rice  Omelet 

Rice  with  Pimentos  Mrs.  Geo.  Steel. 

Rice  and  Salmon 

Rice  Sauce 

Rice  and  Sausage 

Rice,  Spanish  Mrs.  Ralph  Millison. 

Rice,  Steamed 

Rice  Steamed  Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck. 

Soldiers  Rice 


-282- 


BRAN  AND  DATES 

1  C  bran  1  C  dates 

3  C  water  %  C  oats 

1  t  salt 

Cook  in  double  boiler  30  min.  Add  more  water  if  too 
thick. 

BRAN  OATMEAL 

Half  as  much  bran  as  oatmeal,  add  to  the  oatmeal  when 
half  done,  makes  a  delicious  brose.  Serve  with  rich  cream. 
This  requires  1-3  more  water  than  plain  oatmeal  boiling. 

BRAN  AND  PRUNES 

1    C  bran  %  C  fine  breakfast  food 

3  C  water  1  t  salt 
%  C  cooked  prunes,  chopped 

Place  in  double  boiler.     Cook  20  min. 

BRAN  AND  RAISINS 

1  C  bran  1   C  raisins 

4  C  water  %  t  salt 

1  C  wheat  meal  V2  C  nut  meats 

Cut  nuts.  Use  seeded  raisins.  Mix  all,  stir  well  and  cook 
25  min. 

BREAKFAST  FOOD 

1  C  corn  meal  1  C  bran 

1  C  oat  meal  4  C  water 

Cook  in  double  boiler.     Stir  in  meal  last.     Serve  hot. 

COOKING  MUSHES 

Oatmeal,  1  C;  boiling  water,  4  C;  time,  3  hrs. 
Barley,  1  C;  boiling  water,  2  C;  time,  3%  hrs. 
Hominy,  1  C;  boiling  water,  3%  C;  time,  4  hrs. 
Meal,  1%  qts.;  boiling  water,  4  qts.;  time,  4  hrs. 
Graham,  1  pt.;  boiling  water,  3  pts.;  time,  1  hr. 
Rye,  1  pt.;  boiling  water,  1  qt.;  time,  10  min. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH  FRIED 

1  qt.  water  1%  C  corn  meal 

1  t  salt 

Sprinkle  the  corn  meal  slowly  into  the  boiling  water  season- 
ed with  salt.  Stir  briskly  to  avoid  lumping.  When  corn  meal  is 
all  in,  cook  slowly  2  hrs.,  if  for  mush  and  milk.  If  to  fry  cook  15 
min.  The  secret  of  success  in  making  this  is  to  keep  the  water 
at  the  boiling  point  until  after  all  the  corn  meal  is  added. 

To  be  crisp  this  mush  should  be  fried  at  once.  Dip  out  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  and  place  in  a  skillet  containing  2  T  butter 
and  6  T  lard.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn;  then  brown.  Have 
very  hot  lard,  fry  crisp  and  do  not  burn. 


-283- 


DATES  AND  BARLEY 

1  C  barley  1  t  salt 

5  C  water  1  C  seeded  dates 

Cook  washed  barley  2%  hrs.,  in  salted  water  in  double  boil- 
er. Wash  dates,  seed  and  then  measure,  cut  in  small  cubes  and 
add  to  barley  15  min.,  before  serving. 

NUT  CROQUETTES 

y2  pt.  nut  meats  1  t  onion  juice 

1  pt.  mashed  potato  1  T  chopped  parsley 

2  egg-yolks  V±  t  pepper 

1  t  salt  lA  t  nutmeg 

Chop  nuts,  mix  ingredients,  mold  into  pyramids,  dip  in 
beaten  egg-yolks  then  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  deep  fat. 

NUT  LOAF 

2  eggs  1  t  salt 

2  C  milk  %  C  nuts 
IV2  C  bread  crumbs 

Stir  the  crumbs  into  the  milk.     Beat  eggs  and  add  chopped 

nuts  and  salt.     Mix  well.  Bake.     Serve  with  Nut  Gravy: 

1  C  milk  y2  t  salt 

1  C  water  3  T  flour 
y2  C  walnuts 

Stir  the  flour  into  part  of  the  milk,  stir  thickening  into  the 
rest  of  the  milk  and  the  water.  Boil  and  stir  5  min.  Add  fine- 
ly chopped  nuts  and  salt. 

OATMEAL 

2  T  oatmeal  1  C  milk 
1  t  sugar  1  t  salt 

1  C  boiling  water 

Cook  and  mold.  When  cool  serve  with  hot  cream.  Oat- 
meal may  be  cooked  in  fireless  cooker  overnight  and  improve 
flavor.  1  t  butter  added  to  the  oatmeal  in  boiling,  always  im- 
proves the  flavor. 

OATMEAL  BAKED 

1  C  oatmeal  1  T  butter 
y2  t  salt                                               3  C  water 

Mix  in  sauce  pan,  bake  in  hot  oven  in  covered  dish  20  min. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

RICE  AU  GRATIN 

2  C  rice  cooked  1  C  cheese 
1  C  white  sauce 

Cover  in  bake  dish  with  white  sauce,  bake  10  min.  Add 
cheese  and  place  in  oven,  covered  for  1  min. 


—284— 


RICE  BOILED 

1   C  rice  3  qts.  boiling  water 

1  t  salt 

Wash  rice  thoroughly  through  3  waters,  drain  and  sprinkle 
slowly  into  boiling  water.  Cover  and  boil  rapidly  20  min.  Do 
not  stir.  When  done  drain  and  rinse  with  a  qt.  of  cold  water. 
Drain  again  and  set  in  oven  5  min.,  or  until  it  steams  itself  dry. 
This  leaves  each  grain  whole  and  flaky. 

RICE  CANNED 

A  very  convenient  article  to  have  ready  to  serve  at  once  with- 
out long  cooking  necessary. 

1  C  rice  1  t  salt 

Wash  and  clean  rice.  Place  in  jar  and  fill  with  boiling 
water,  add  salt  and  process  1%  hrs.  When  ready  to  serve  loosen 
lid  and  re-heat  in  jar.  A  quantity  of  rice  may  be  canned  at  once. 
Oat  meal  may  be  canned  the  same  way. 

To  re-heat  rice,  place  in  a  colander  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.     Steam  5  min. 

RICE  AND  CHEESE 

2  C  rice  boiled  2  C  cheese 

Boil  rice  according  to  directions.  Serve  hot  on  platter  and 
pile  grated  cheese  on  top  of  hot  rice.  2  C  hot  white  sauce  may  be 
poured  over  all. 

RICE  AND  CHICKEN 

2  C  cooked  rice  1  C  chicken  broth  or  cream 

2  C  cooked  chicken  1  t  salt 

Escallop  alternate  layers  of  chicken  and  rice.  Pour  over  all 
either  broth  or  cream.     Salt  and  bake  20  min. 

RICE  AND  CHIPPED  BEEF 

y±  lb.  chipped  beef  Yi  C  boiled  rice 

1  T  butter  2  C  milk 

Parboil  beef  if  salty.  Pour  off  water,  shread  into  bits,  fry 
in  butter  3  min.  Add  milk  and  rice.  Boil  5  min.  May  be  thick- 
ened if  desired. 

RICE  CROQUETTES 

1  pt.  boiled  rice  1  T  butter 

1  t  sugar  1  egg 

y2  t  salt 

Mix  all  together  in  desired  form  for  croquettes.  Roll  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

—285— 


RICE  DRESSING 

1  onion  4  C  boiled  rice 

1  T  butter  1  C  sausage 

1  C  milk  %  t  pepper 

1  t  salt  1  t  celery 

1  T  parsley  1  C  bread  crumbs 

Moisten  bread  crumbs  with  milk.  Brown  chopped  onion  in 
butter.  Chop  parsley  and  celery.  Mix  all  together.  Stir  while 
cooking.     Serve  over  toast  or  with  fowl  as  a  dressing. 

RICE  AND  FISH 

2  C  cooked  fish  1  C  boiled  rice 
4  hard  boiled  eggs  1  t  salt 

1  C  cream  sauce 

Mash  egg-yolks,  add  to  rice  and  place  alternate  layers  in 
bake  dish.  When  baked  10  min.,  cover  with  hot  cream  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  egg-whites. 

RICE  WITH  FRUIT 

1  C  cooked  rice  2  C  canned  fruit 

Pour  fruit  over  rice  and  serve  cold.  Whipped  cream  may 
be  served  on  this. 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  C  flour  2  C  milk 
2  eggs  y2  t  salt 
P/o  C  cooked  rice  1  t  sugar 
2  t  B.  P. 

Beat  eggs,  mix  ingredients  and  bake  on  hot  griddle. 

RICE  HASH  BAKED 

1  C  chopped  beef  1   C  milk 

1  C  cooked  rice  2  T  butter 

1  t  salt  1  egg 
XA  t  pepper 

Put  beef,  rice,  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  in  stew  pan. 
Cook  5  min.,  add  well  beaten  egg.     Put  in  bake  pan  and  bake  20 


RICE  IMPERIAL 

1  pt.  whipped  cream  1  pkg.  gelatine 

1  C  cooked  rice  1  t  vanilla 

%  C  sugar  y2  C  water 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  vanilla;  melt  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  the  cold  water  by  placing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Mix 
other  ingredients.    Mold.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

—286— 


RICE  JAPANESE  BOILED 

1  C  rice  1%  t  salt 

5  C  boiling  water 

Pour  boiling  water  over  rice  in  colander  to  wash  it  and 
rinse  through  3  waters.  To  the  bubbling  boiling  water  add  the 
salt  and  rice,  cover  and  set  on  back  of  stove,  boiling  slowly 
15  min.  Drain,  then  place  in  oven  still  covered,  15  min.  The 
rice  should  then  be  tender  and  soft  and  each  grain  whole  and 
separate. 

RICE  MEXICAN 

1  C  rice  4  slices  bacon 

1  onion  (large)  3  green  peppers 

3  tomatoes    '  1  t  salt 
1-6  t  pepper 

Cook  rice  until  tender.  Fry  and  grind  bacon,  onion  and  pep- 
pers. Cook  and  strain  tomatoes.  Stir  these  2  mixtures  together 
adding  bacon  fryings  and  bake  4  min.,  in  a  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabaugh 

RICE  MUFFINS 

1  C  cooked  rice  1  C  milk 

1  T  melted  butter  2  eggs 
IV2  C  flour  1  T  sugar 

2  t  B.  P. 

Combine  rice,  butter,  milk,  beaten  egg-yolks  and  sugar;  add 
flour  and  B.  P.  Fold  in  egg-whites,  stiffly  beaten,  last.  Put  in 
hot  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven.     Do  not  let  stand. 

RICE  OMELET 

1  egg  Y2  t  salt 

%  C  rice  %  C  cream  sauce 

Cook  as  omelette  and  pour  over  all  %  C  cream  sauce. 

RICE  WITH  PIMENTOS 

2V2  C  cold  boiled  rice  1  minced  onion 

1  can  tomatoes  2  t  salt 

1  small  can  pimentos  x/4  t  pepper 

1  t  sugar  2  T  butter 
%  C  bread  crumbs 

Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  onion  to  tomatoes.  Butter  a 
baking  dish.  Spread  over  a  layer  of  tomatoes.  Then  add  rice 
and  sprinkle  with  some  of  the  pimentos,  which  should  be  chop- 
ped. Dot  with  bits  of  butter,  repeat  until  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle 
top  with  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  butter  and  bake  about  40  min. 
in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Steel 


-287- 


RICE  AND  SALMON 

2  C  rice  cooked  2  C  cream  sauce 

1  can  salmon 

Place  rice  in  bottom  of  bake  pan,  mix  salmon  in  cream  sauce. 
Pour  over  rice,  bake  10  min. 

RICE  SAUCE 

1  C  rice  cooked  1  C  cream  sauce 

Y-2  C  cheese  1  pt.  tomato  soup 

Brown  rice,  add  cream  sauce,  cheese  and  tomato  soup. 

RICE  AND  SAUSAGE 
1  qt.  cooked  rice  1  lb.  sausage 

Put  layer  of  rice  in  casserole  and  alternate  with  layers  of 
sausage,  putting  sausage  on  top  and  bake  30  min. 

RICE  SPANISH 

1  C  rice  1  onion 

1  can  tomatoes  1  C  peanuts 

1  good  sized  green  pepper  x/>  grated  cheese 

1  T  butter 

Cook  rice,  season  with  butter  and  salt  while  cooking,  put  in 
a  baking  dish  in  layers,  covering  each  with  a  sauce  made  with 
the  tomatoes,  chopped  pepper,  onion  and  peanuts.  Spread  the 
grated  cheese  over  all  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Millison 

RICE  STEAMED 

1  pt.  rice  1  pt.  water 

1  t  salt 

Put  all  in  covered  steamer  and  steam  1  hr.     Do  not  stir. 

STEAMED  RICE 

Wash  and  drain  rice,  place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  for 
%  hr.,  with  water  to  cover  well.  Remove  from  fire,  toss  into  a 
colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  it.  Then  place  colander 
with  rice  in  a  shallow  pan  of  hot  water  in  oven  for  1  hr.  Keep 
well  covered  and  steam. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Buck 

SOLDIERS'  RICE 

1  C  cooked  rice  1  t  butter 

1  t  salt 

Warm  all  together,  pack  in  square  dish.  When  cold  cut  in 
%  in.  slices  and  fry  brown  in  meat  drippings. 


-288- 


Eggs— Omelets 


EGGS 

Asparagus  tips  with  eggs  Mrs.  James  Buck 

Baked  with  Bacon 

Baked  in  Cream 

Beaureguard  Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Beets  and  Eggs 

Boiled  Hard 

Boiled  Soft 

Breaded  Eggs 

Cheese  and  Eggs,  baked 

Coddled  Eggs 

Deviled 

Egg  Nog 

Escalloped 

Fried 

Good  Friday  Eggs 

Ham  and  Eggs 

Stuffed  Eggs  with  Ham 

Japanese  Eggs 

Keeping  Eggs  for  Winter  Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson 

Muffin  Eggs 

Mumbled  Eggs 

Nest  Eggs 

Omelet  Mrs.  Newton  Garst 

Ox  Eyes 

Poached  Eggs 

Poached  Eggs  and  Rarebit 

Poached  Eggs  in  Milk  Mrs.  Murray  Myers 

Egg  Rarebit 

Scrambled   Eggs 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Rice  Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

Shirred  in  Cream 

Shirred  Plain 

Souffle 

Stuffed 

Timballs 

Tomato  and  Egg 

Toast  (egg) 


-292- 


FACTS  ABOUT  EGGS 

On  Cooking  Eggs 

The  manner  of  cooking  eggs  is  most  important  as  the  digesti- 
bility depends  upon  the  cooking.  A  high  temperature  hardens 
and  toughens  the  white,  so  the  egg-white  should  never  be  boiled. 
The  egg-white  should  be  cooked  below  the  boiling  point.  The 
yolk  may  be  boiled,  as  the  high  temperature  really  makes  it  more 
mealy  and  digestible.  The  egg  unbroken  should  be  placed  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  covered,  and  immediately  set  on  the  back  of 
stove  and  let  stand  five  min;  the  results  will  be  a  lovely 
soft-boiled  egg.  If  a  hard  boiled  egg  is  desired  let  stand  thirty 
minutes  in  the  same  manner.  Hard  boiled  eggs  run  through  the 
colander  are  more  easily  digested. 

Olive  oil,  bacon  or  ham  fat  is  best  for  frying  eggs.  Butter 
burns  before  the  cooking  is  done,  and  lard  tastes  badly.  Eggs 
plunged  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  taken  from  stove  will  not  stick 
to  the  shell,  but  they  will  not  slice  smoothly. 

Eggs  may  be  separated,  yolks  and  whites  frozen,  separately, 
and  kept  frozen  until  time  to  use  them  for  cooking. 

Never  buy  dirty  looking  eggs.  It  shows  that  the  hens  were 
not  kept  in  a  clean  place  and  are  likely  to  be  diseased. 

Some  cooks  scrape  with  the  finger  every  particle  of  egg  white 
sticking  to  the  shell,  claiming  that  this  thick  part  of  the  egg  con- 
tains most  of  the  beating  quality  of  the  egg.  In  six  eggs  1  t  of  egg 
white  is  thus  saved. 

TESTING  EGGS 

One  T  salt  to  1  qt.  of  water.  Drop  in  the  egg  and  if  it  is  newly 
laid  it  will  sink,  if  six  days  old  it  will  float;  if  bad  it  will  ride 
upon  the  top  of  the  surface.  An  egg  loses  its  density  daily  and  the 
longer  it  is  kept  the  lighter  it  becomes. 

Sometimes  eggs  fail  to  beat  when  they  are  too  fresh. 

The  whites  of  eggs  will  whip  more  readily  if  a  pinch  of  salt 
is  added  to  them.  If  the  eggs  are  placed  in  cold  water  for  a  time 
before  being  broken  they  will  whip  easily. 

Be  sure  the  vessel  in  which  the  egg  is  beaten  is  dry,  as  a  drop 
of  water  may  dilute  the  albumen  sufficiently  to  prevent  its 
beating. 

COMPOSITION  OF  EGGS 

The  white  has  86%  water  and  the  yolk  50%.  The  33%  fat  in 
the  yolk  is  the  most  concentrated  food  we  have.  The  white  cooks 
at  a  lower  temperature  than  does  the  yolk.  Eggs  are  mostly  pro- 
teins; the  egg-yolk  contains  fat,  the  egg-white  is  almost  pure  albu- 
men, diluted  with  water. 

Eggs  are  valuable  for  mineral  salts,  iron,  phosphorus,  and 
lime.    The  digestibility  of  eggs  depends  upon  the  cooking. 


-293- 


The  yolk  contains  1700  calories  per  pound  and  the  white  250. 
The  white  is  a  wonderful  leavening  agent,  because  so  much  air 
can  be  beaten  into  it.  The  colder  and  purer  the  air,  the  lighter 
will  be  the  products  cooked.  The  white  is  also  used  for  clari- 
fying. 

EGGS  WITH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

6  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  T  butter  Butter  toast 

IT  milk 

Boil  the  asparagus  tips.  Put  the  butter,  milk,  pepper  and  salt 
in  a  pan,  add  the  eggs  and  asparagus  tips  and  scramble.  Serve  on 
toast. 

Mrs.  James  Buck. 

EGGS  BAKED  WITH  BACON 

6  eggs  14  slices  bacon 

Fry,  bake  or  broil  bacon  crisp.  Place  in  baking  pan,  cover 
with  eggs.  Bake  in  hot  oven  and  serve  for  breakfast.  This  may 
be  served  on  toast. 


BAKED  EGGS 

Eggs  in  Cream. 
6  eggs 

6  T  cream 
1  t  salt 

Grease  baking  dish  with  butter,  break  the  eggs  into  it, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pour  cream  over*them.  If  not  sufficient 
cream,  add  enough  to  cover  eggs.  Set  dish  in  water  and  cook  in 
moderate  oven,  about  ten  minutes.  Very  digestible  and  nourish- 
ing. 

BEAUREGUARD  EGGS 

5  eggs  4  T  butter 

6  slices  of  toast  2  T  flour 
2  C  milk  y8  t  milk 
Cream  sauce 

Make  cream  sauce  of  milk,  butter  and  flour 

Hard  boil  the  eggs,  press  the  yolks  through  the  ricer,  chop  the 
whites,  mix  the  whites  and  y2  the  yolks  with  the  sauce.  Pour 
over  freshly  made  and  richly  buttered  toast,  and  sprinkle  the  re- 
maining yolks  over  the  sauce  and  toast,  serve  at  once  and  hot. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 

EGGS  AND  BEETS 

y2  lemon  2  C  beets 

6  eggs  !/4  t  salt 

Hard  boil  the  eggs.  Run  yolks  and  whites  separately  through 
ricer,  slice  beets  in  round  pieces  and  cover  with  yolks  and  whites 
of  eggs  alternately,  add  salt  and  squeeze  juice  of  lemon  on  top. 
This  is  a  good  luncheon  dish. 

—294— 


EGGS  HARD  BOILED 

Eggs  hard  boiled,  1  C  boiling  water  to  each  egg.  Have  water 
boiling  and  put  eggs  in  with  shell  on,  set  on  back  of  stove  covered, 
thirty  minutes.  Be  sure  the  water  and  eggs  are  boiling  when  set 
back.    This  cooks  yolk  and  white  evenly. 

EGG  BOILED  SOFT 

Have  water  boiling  in  deep  pan,  drop  in  egg  in  shell,  and  set 
on  back  of  the  stove  covered.  The  egg  will  be  soft  boiled  evenly 
in  three  minutes.  Be  sure  the  water  and  eggs  are  boiling  when 
set  off  the  fire. 

EGGS  BOILED 

Put  the  egg  in  a  sauce  pan  of  cold  water  and  when  the  water 
boils  the  egg  is  done.    Remove  from  shell  at  once. 

BREADED  EGG 

3  eggs  i/4  t  salt 

1  C  bread 

Cut  bread  in  y2  inch  cubes,  beat  eggs,  salt,  and  pour  over 
bread.  Stir  well  and  pour  in  greased  buttered  frying  pan.  Stir 
and  f ry  brown. 

EGGS  AND  CHEESE  BAKED 

1  C  crumbs  6  eggs 

1  C  cheese  %  C  cream 

Line  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs.  Cover  with  cheese, 
make  pockets  for  eggs.  Break  one  egg  into  each  pocket,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs.  Pour  cream  over  all,  dot  on  butter  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  until  eggs  are  set. 

CODDLED  EGGS 

Have  water  boiling  hard,  set  off  fire,  cover  eggs,  cook  seven 
minutes.    Whites  should  be  soft  and  jelly  like. 

DEVILED  EGGS 

6  eggs  14  t  celery  salt 

1/4  t  salt  34  t  mustard 

14  t  pepper  1  t  vinegar 

Hard  boil  eggs,  cut  in  half,  remove  yolks  and  mix  with  above 
ingredients,  making  a  paste.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  paste  and 
serve  cold. 

EGG  NOG 

0'  eggs  4 1  sugar 

5  oranges 

Beat  yolk  and  white  very  stiff  separately.  Pare  and  cut  or- 
anges in  small  dices.  Mix  all  together  and  sweeten.  Serve  at 
once.  A  little  cinnamon  may  be  sprinkled  on  top.  Lemon  juice, 
grape  juice  or  any  sour  fruit  may  be  used.  A  good  breakfast  dish. 


—295- 


ESCALLOPED  EGGS 

6  eggs  1  T  melted  butter 

1  C  ham  cooked  1  T  cream 
%  C  bread  crumbs  y2  t  paprika 
l/4  t  salt 

Chop  ham  and  mix  eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Place  on  bottom 
of  bake  dish,  cook  ten  minutes.  Break  eggs  into  plate  and  slip  off 
plate  on  top  of  ham  mixture.  Cover  and  cook  10  minutes.  Serve 
with  Maitre  De  Hotel  Sauce  if  any  sauce  is  desired. 

FRIED  EGGS 

There  are  many  ways  of  frying  eggs.  The  best  of  which  is  to 
break  all  the  eggs  into  a  dish,  have  the  frying  pan  oiled  or  greased 
with  3  T  of  liquid.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs  carefully,  cover, 
and  do  not  life  the  cover  until  done,  which  should  be  five  min- 
utes. The  eggs  will  puff  with  the  heat  and  be  evenly  cooked. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

GOOD  FRIDAY  EGGS 

6  slices  bread  1%  C  milk 

6  eggs  14  t  salt 

6  T  butter  6  T  cheese 

Cut  bread  into  thick  slices  and  fry  each  slice  in  1  T  butter. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  add  milk  and  salt.  Pour  over  fried  bread  in 
large  shallow  bake  pan,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Grate  cheese 
and  sprinkle  over  mixture  when  taken  from  oven. 

HAM  AND  EGGS 

2  C  cream  sauce  1  C  minced  ham 
5  hard  boiled  eggs  Y2  t  salt 

5  slices  hard  bread,  toasted 

Mix  ham  and  minced  eggs,  place  on  top  of  bread  in  bake 
dish.    Pour  over  all  cream  sauce.    Bake  10  min.    Serve  hot. 

STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  HAM 

Boil  half  a  dozen  eggs  hard.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut  the 
eggs  crosswise  in  two.  Slice  off  a  piece  from  each  end  to  make 
them  stand  firmly.  Remove  the  yolks  and  mix  them  with  a  little 
chopped  ham.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  heaping  it  up  in 
cone  shape.  Put  the  stuffed  halves  on  a  flat  dish  and  pour  over 
them  this  dressing. 

Beat  two  egg-yolks  with  t  of  salt  and  12  T  salad  oil  added 
slowly  as  it  is  necessary  with  oil. 

JAPANESE  EGGS 

1  C  cooked  rice  1  t  salt 

3  T  cream  6  eggs 

Mix  rice  and  cream,  spread  on  hot  platter,  break  eggs  on  rice, 
bake  until  eggs  begin  to  set.    Salt  and  serve  at  once. 

—296— 


KEEPING  EGGS  FOR  WINTER 

1  Qt.  liquid  glass  18  doz.  eggs 

12  Qts.  water. 

Mix  together  liquid  glass  and  water,  put  in  large  jar.  Handle 
eggs  carefully,  having  sufficient  amount  of  liquid  to  cover  them. 
Will  keep  indefinitely.     Purchase  liquid  glass  at  drug  store. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

MUFFIN  EGGS 

6  Eggs  6  Muffins 

Heat  Griddle,  butter  and  place  small  rings  on  gridle,  break 
an  egg  into  each  muffin  ring,  cook  until  as  done  as  desired.  Serve 
on  bacon  or  on  toast  or  on  ham. 


MUMBLED  EGGS 

6  eggs  %  t  salt 

1  C  milk  4  pieces  toast 

Put  milk  on  fire  in  stew  kettle.  When  boiling,  add  eggs  un- 
beaten. Stir  quickly  with  fork  until  thick,  salt  eggs.  This  way  is 
not  as  well  cooked  as  scrambled  eggs.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

NEST  EGGS 

6  eggs 

Beat  whites  very  stiff,  lay  spoonful  on  a  greased  platter  that 
will  stand  the  oven  heat,  hollow  out  a  hole  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon  and  lay  the  yolk  in.  Heat  in  oven  until  meringue  begins 
to  color.  Then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  bit  of  butter  on  each 
egg.    Serve  in  same  platter. 

OMELET 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs  separately.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  One  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  with 
enough  milk  to  make  them  soft.  Mix  with  beaten  yolks,  and  fold 
in  the  well  beaten  whites.  Pour  mixture  into  a  hot  omelet  pan 
which  is  well-buttered.    Cook  until  the  egg  is  set.    Fold  as  usual. 

Mrs.  Newton  Garst. 


OX  EYES 

Make  an  attractive  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish.  Cut  rounds 
of  bread  and  make  an  opening  in  the  center  of  each  which  is  large 
enough  to  take  in  a  broken  egg.  Dip  the  rounds  of  bread  in  melt- 
ed butter  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Then  put  in  each  an  egg,  moist- 
en the  toast  with  cream,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika  and  heat 
in  the  oven. 


—297— 


POACHED  EGGS 

Only  fresh  eggs  poach  well.  Have  water  boiling  in  shallow 
kettle,  drop  in  broken  egg,  cover  and  set  back  on  stove.  The  egg 
will  poach  soft  in  two  minutes,  medium  three  minutes,  hard  five 
minutes. 

A  spoonful  of  vinegar  in  the  water  will  keep  the  egg  from 
spreading  in  poaching.  Do  not  let  the  water  boil  too  hard  in 
poaching  or  the  egg  will  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

POACHED  EGG  AND  RAREBIT 

Poach  6  eggs  and  put  on  top  of  6  square  of  toast — pour  over 
all  a  tomato  rarebit. 

POACHED  EGGS  IN  MILK 

A  luncheon  dish.  Poach  eggs  in  milk  and  place  them  on 
slices  of  buttered  toast.  Melt  some  cheese  in  the  milk  and  pour  it 
over  the  eggs  and  toast. — Mrs.  Murray  Myers. 

EGG  RAREBIT 

2  C  cheese  2  C  cream  sauce 

2  eggs 

Beat  eggs,  add  to  hot  cream  sauce,  stirring  when  boiling  re- 
move from  fire  and  add  cheese. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

4  eggs  V-i  C  cream 

Va>  t  salt 

Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  salt  or  milk  and  cream  or  milk,  have 
ready  a  hot  greased  pan,  turn  the  eggs  in  quickly  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  firm  but  soft. 

Eggs  may  be  scrambled  with  chopped  ham,  dried  beef,  sal- 
mon, spaghetti,  cooked,  or  rice  cooked.  Eggs  are  always  good 
served  hard  boiled  chopped  on  spinnach. 


SCRAMBLED  EGGS  AND  RICE 

Add  1  t  of  cooked  rice  to  each  egg  and  then  scramble  very 
good.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

SHIRRED  EGGS  IN  CREAM 

6  T  milk  6    eggs 

1  T  butter  *4  t  salt 

Divide  1  T  butter  into  6  shirred  egg  dishes  and  1  T  of  milk, 
break  1  egg  in  each  dish,  set  in  oven  until  egg  is  cooked  as  soft 
or  hard  as  desired. 


—298— 


SHIRRED  EGGS— PLAIN 

Oil  or  grease  shirred  egg  dishes  and  break  1  egg  in  each  dish, 
sprinkle  with  finely  minced  parsley,  salt  and  a  bit  of  butter  set 
in  oven  and  bake  as  soft  or  hard  as  desired.  Serve  at  once  as  the 
egg  hardens  standing  in  the  hot  dish. 

EGG  SOUFFLE 

y8  t  paprika  1  C  milk 

2    T  butter  4  eggs 

2    T  flour  1  tsalt 
1     C  cream 

Cream  butter,  add  flour  and  stir,  pour  on  milk  and  cream 
which  have  been  scalded,  cook  7  ruin,  in  double  boiler.  Then  add 
well  beaten  yolks,  salt  and  paprika.  Remove  from  boiler  and 
add  whites  stiffly  beaten,  put  in  buttered  ramekins  and  bake. 

STUFFED  EGGS 

Hard  boiled  egg-whites  may  be  stuffed  with  spinach  mixed 
with  lemon  juice,  and  the  yolked  riced. 

EGG  TIMBALLS 

5  eggs  1  t  minced  parsley 

1  2-3  C  milk  1  t  salt 

1  t  onion  juice 

Heat  milk,  add  onion  juice  and  parsley,  add  to  well  beaten 
eggs,  then  add  salt  and  turn  into  timball  cups.  Place  in  pan  of 
hot  water  in  oven,  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm.  Serve  with 
cream  sauce  on  top  in  timball  cups. 

TOMATO  AND  EGG 

1  C  tomato  y2  t  salt 

6  eggs 

Beat  eggs  and  salt  and  mix  with  tomato.  Scramble  in  oiled 
pan  on  top  of  stove,  stirring  constantly. 

EGG  TOAST 

4  rounds  of  toast  2  eggs 

1  pt  of  milk  1  t  salt 

2  T  butter 

Make  toast  and  butter,  heat  milk  and  add  eggs.  When  boil- 
ing salt  and  pour  over  toast.  A  little  thickening  may  be  added  if 
preferred,  or  cheese  may  be  grated  on  top  while  hot. 


-299- 


OMELET 


Omelet 

Omelet 

Apple  Omelet 

Asparaeus  Omelet 

Baked  Omelet 

Baked  Omelet 

Cheese  Omelet 

Chicken  Omelet 

Cream  Omelet 

Economy  Omelet 

Ham  Omelet 

Jelly  Omelet 

Mushroom  Omelet 

Parsley  Omelet 

Plain  Omelet 

Puffy  Omelet 

Puffy  Orange  Omelet 

Ripe  Olive  and  Pine  Nut 

Omelet 
Spanish  Omelet 
William  Penn  Omelet 


C.  C. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon 


C.  C. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall 


Helen  Brooks  Hall 
Helen  Brooks  Hall 


Mrs.  Chester  Long 


—300— 


OMELETS 

Fresh  eggs  are  most  important  for  the  success  of  an  omelet. 

Be  sure  the  vessel  is  dry  in  which  the  egg  is  beaten;  as  a  drop 
of  water  may  dilute  the  albumen  sufficiently  to  prevent  its  beat- 
ing. 

Omelets  fall  from  being  cooked  too  fast. 

OMELET 

1  t  cornstarch  1-16  t  salt 

2  t  cream  1-32  t  pepper 
2  eggs  1  t  parsley 

Beat  cornstarch  with  cream,  add  egg-yolks,  beat  whites  stiff, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  parsley  on  buttered  griddle,  pour 
in  the  Omelet  and  fry.  Use  2  pans,  turn  omelet  upside  down  into 
2nd  pan  which  is  hot  and  greased,  then  set  in  oven  5  min. 

C.  C. 

OMELET 

5  eggs  Salt 

2-3  C  milk  Pepper 

1  T  butter 

Beat  eggs  separately.  Add  milk  to  yolks,  season,  fold  in  egg- 
whites  gently.  Have  skillet  hot,  put  in  butter.  Pour  in  mixture, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  15  min.  When  done,  fold  over  and  turn 
on  hot  platter. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 


APPLE  OMELET 

9  apples  1  T  butter 

4  eggs  1  t  cinnamon. 

1  C  sugar 

Stew  apples  until  soft,  mash,  add  sugar  and  butter  while  hot, 
let  cool.  Add  to  beaten  eggs.  Bake  until  brown.  Good  with  any 
pork  dish. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELET 

Make  creamy  omelet,  add  %  C  asparagus  tips  to  1  C  cream 
sauce  and  pour  over  omelet. 

BAKED  OMELET 

6  eggs  V2  pt.  milk. 

Beat  egg-yolks  stiff,  add  milk,  stir  well.  Beat  egg-whites 
until  they  stand  alone  and  gradually  stir  into  mixture.  Quick 
oven. 

—301— 


BAKED  OMELET 

4  eggs  1  C  hot  milk 

3  t  flour  1-16  t  salt 

1  T  melted  butter  1-32  t  pepper 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  salt  and  pepper;  dissolve  flour  in  a 
little  milk;  add  other  ingredients,  the  whites  last,  just  before 
placing  in  oven.    Bake  20  min. 

C.  C. 

CHEESE  OMELET 
Sprinkle  3  T  cheese  over  omelet  when  it  begins  to  thicken. 

CHICKEN  OMELET 
1  C  cooked  chicken  chopped  fine  to  a  plain  omelet. 

CREAM  OMELET 

An  omelet  cooked  in  a  skillet  on  top  the  stove  may  be  im- 
proved by  covering.  Do  not  lift  the  lid  until  done  and  then  fold 
quickly. 

CREAM  OMELET 

1  egg  Vs  t  salt 

%  C  white  sauce  Vs  t  pepper 

Combine  V±  C  sauce,  well  beaten  egg  and  seasoning.  Cook  as 
plain  omelet.  Serve  with  other  *4  C  cream,  same  poured  around 
omelet. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall. 

ECONOMY  OMELET 

1  egg  IT  flour 

1  C  cooked  rice  Vi  t  salt 

1  C  sweet  milk  Vs  t  pepper 

Stale  bread  or  crackers  soaked  in  hot  water  can  be  used  in 
place  of  rice.    Will  serve  3  people. 

HAM  OMELET 
Add  3  T  chopped  ham  to  a  plain  omelet  recipe. 

JELLY  OMELET 
Make  omelet  and  spread  with  jelly  before  rolling. 

MUSHROOM  OMELET 

Make  creamy  omelet  and  add  y2  C  mushrooms  to  cream 
sauce  poured  over  omelet. 

—302— 


PARSLEY  OMELET 

Make  plain  omelet  and  sprinkle  with  %  C  parsley  before 
rolling. 

PLAIN  OMELETS 

1  egg  i/8  t  salt 

1  T  milk  ys  t  pepper 

Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  milk  and  seasoning,  pour  into  hot 
greased  omelet  pan.  Shake  quickly  to  keep  loose  from  pan. 
When  set  and  browned  fold  or  roll,  turn  on  hot  platter. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall. 

PUFFY  OMELETS 

1  egg  %  t  salt 

1  T  milk  Ys  t  pepper 

Separate  egg — beating  yolk  thick  and  whites  stiff,  add  milk 
and  seasonings  to  yolk,  cut  well  beaten  whites  into  yolks.  Cook 
and  serve,  folded,  as  for  plain  omelet. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall. 

PUFFY  ORANGE  OMELET 

3  eggs  14  t  salt 

2  T  orange  juice  3  T  sugar 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  salt  and  juice  to  yolks  and  beat. 
Cut  whites  into  egg-yolks.  Heat  pan,  grease  bottom  and  sides 
with  1  T  butter.  Spread  omelet  over  bottom  of  pan,  cook  evenly, 
cover  to  finish  top.  Fold  and  turn  from  pan.  Garnish  with  slices 
of  orange.     Cover  with  powdered  sugar  and  score  with  hot  iron. 

Helen  Brooks  Hall. 

RIPE  OLIVE  AND  PINE  NUTS  OMELET 

4  eggs  14  C  pine  nuts 
y2  C  ripe  olives 

Chop  olives  and  nuts  fine,  add  to  plain  omelet,  using  4  eggs. 
SPANISH  OMELET 

6  eggs  1  onion 

1  t  salt  1  t  celery  seed 

8  slices  bacon  6  mushrooms 
ly4  t  pepper 

Fry  bacon,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  add  the  vegetables  chop- 
ped fine.  Cook  10  min.  Beat  eggs  and  turn  in  buttered  pan,  bake 
and  when  done  mix  tomato  sauce  with  bacon  and  vegetables  and 
salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed.    Pour  over  omelet  and  cook  2  min. 

Mrs.  Chester  I.  Long. 


-303— 


WM.  PENN  OMELET 

3  eggs  1  t  butter 

V£  C  milk  1  t  paprika 

1  y2  T  cornstarch  2  t  ham  fat 
1  t  salt 

Put  butter  and  ham  fat  in  very  hot  omelet  pan,  beat  egg- 
yolks  well,  add  salt  and  cornstarch,  then  milk,  adding  stiffly 
beaten  whites  last,  pour  into  pan,  cover,  cook  6  to  8  min.  Fold, 
turn  out  on  hot  dish  and  pour  a  cream  sauce  over  it.  Be  careful 
not  to  burn,  serve  immediately  with  ham. 


-304- 


CHEESE 


CHEESE  DISHES 


Baked  Cheese. 

Cheese  Balls. 

Cheese  and  Jelly. 

Cheese  Fingers 

Cheese  Hail  Stones 

Cheese  Harlequins. 

Cheese  Paste. 

Cheese  Marbles. 

Cheese  Muffins. 

Cheese  Patties. 

Cheese  and  Pineapple  Salad. 

Cheese  Rarebit. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Cheese  Souffle  Chafing  Dish 

Cheese  Sticks. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Cheese  Wafers. 

Cottage  Cheese 

Cottage  Cheese 

Dreams. 

Grated  Cheese. 

Jerusalem  Krepza. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Spanish  Rabbit 

Under  Cheese  Relish. 

War  Bride  Cheese. 
Welsh  Rarebit. 
Welsh  Rarebit. 


Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


Mrs.  0.  D.  Barnes. 
Mrs.  Todd. 
Mrs.  R.  B.  Campbell. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 
Mrs.  Will  Dixon 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Rorabough. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 


C.  C. 

Mrs.  Brown. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


308— 


BAKED  CHEESE 

1  C  cheese  2  eggs 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1%  C  milk 

1  t  salt 

To  the  milk  add  the  grated  cheese,  bread  crumbs  and  salt; 
then  add  eggs  beaten  separately.    Bake  20  min.  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Ferguson. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

2  C  cottage  cheese  %  t  salt 
4  T  cream 

Mix  cream  and  salt  with  cheese.  Make  into  small  balls. 
Cinnamon  or  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

CHEESE  BALLS  AND  JELLY 

Place  a  mound  of  tart  jelly  in  center  of  round  dish  and  sur- 
round with  cheese  balls.    Serve  cold. 

CHEESE  FINGEBS 
2  C  cheese  2  eggs 

%  t  salt  and  1-16  t  pepper  Bread  crumbs 

Beat  egg-whites  and  mix  with  cheese,  salt,  and  pepper.  Mold 
into  finger  shape.    Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 

CHEESE  HAIL  STONES 

1  lb.  cottage  cheese  1  egg-yolk 

1  t  salt  2  T  cream 

Mash  the  hard  boiled  egg  yolk,  add  to  the  cheese,  salt  and 
cream.  Boll  into  round  balls  and  serve  with  powdered  cinnamon 
on  top,  as  an  accompaniment  to  salad. 

CHEESE  HABLEQUINS 

Boll  pastry  thin,  sprinkle  cheese  between  the  two  layers, 
cut  in  strips  and  bake. 

CHEESE  PASTE 

1  C  cheese  1  t  salt 

%  C  milk  1  t  dry  mustard 

2  eggs  Egg  of  butter 
%  small  can  pimentos 

Put  butter  in  double  boiler,  when  melted,  add  milk,  when 
heated,  add  salt  and  mustard.  Mix  well  and  smooth,  then  grate 
cheese  into  mixture  and  stir  constantly  until  cheese  melts  and 
gets  creamy.  Beat  eggs  well  and  add,  stirring  until  it  pours  like 
thick  custard.  Stir  constantly.  When  cool  add  pimentos  cut 
fine. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  Dickson. 


—309— 


CHEESE  MARBLES 

Add  minced  pimento  to  cheese  balls. 
Add  minced  pecans  to  cheese  balls. 
Add  currant  jelly  to  cheese  balls. 
Add  minced  parsley  to  cheese  balls. 

Serve  all  the  different  colored  balls  heaped  on  a  round 
plate. 

CHEESE  MUFFINS 
Melt  cheese  on  toasted  English  muffins. 

CHEESE  PATTIES 

^4  lb.  cheese  1  C  cream 

3  eggs  V-i  t  salt 

Vl  t  paprika  1  t  pimento 

Line  16  patty  pans  with  puff  paste.  Grate  cheese  and  mix 
with  beaten  eggs,  pimento  chopped,  cream,  paprika  and  salt. 
Bake  30  min. 

CHEESE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  C  neufchatel  cheese  V2  C  pineapple 

Cut  pineapple  in  cubes,  cover  with  cheese  and  pour  French 
dressing  over  all. 

CHEESE  RAREBIT 

1  loaf  bread  V±  t  salt 
V2  lb.  cream  cheese                           3  C  milk 

Trim  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  bread.  Cut  in  slices  half  in. 
thick.  Make  a  sandwich  with  thin  slices  of  yellow  cream  cheese, 
sprinkled  with  salt. 

Place  in  long  pie  tin.  Grate  cheese  over  the  top  and  fill  the 
tin  1-3  full  of  milk.    Cover,  and  bake  20  min. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Barnes. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  T  butter  3  eggs   (yolks  and  whites  sep- 
1  T  flour  arated) 

Vu  C  sweet  milk  1  C  grated  cheese 

Cream  butter  and  flour;  add  milk.  Set  it  on  the  stove  and 
stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  While  hot  add  yolk  three  eggs, 
grated  cheese.  After  it  cools  add  whites  of  eggs,  pour  in  buttered 
pan  and  bake  15  min. 

Mrs.  Todd. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 
1  C  chopped  cheese  4  eggs 

3  T  flour  %  t  salt 

iy2  C  milk  y2  t  paprika 

—310— 


Mix  the  flour  with  half  C  cold  milk,  and  add  to  1  C  hot 
milk,  cook  until  thick,  add  cheese  and  stir  until  melted.  Add 
yolks  well  beaten.  Remove  from  fire,  add  salt  and  paprika, 
stir  in  carefully  the  well  beaten  whites.  Turn  all  into  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  twenty  min.  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  at 
once.  Mrs.  R.  R.  Campbell. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE— CHAFING  DISH 

1  T  butter  1  T  flour 

y2  t  paprika  1  C  sweet  milk 

y2  t  mustard  1  C  grated  cheese 

1  t  salt  3  eggs 

Put  in  chafing  dish  or  double  boiler  the  butter,  paprika, 
mustard,  salt,  melt  all  together,  then  add  flour,  stir  until  thick- 
ened; add  cheese,  remove  from  fire  and  set  in  hot  water.  Reat 
eggs  separately,  add  yolks  and  last  stir  in  whites,  cover  and 
cook  30  min.    '  Mrs,  W.  E.  Stanley. 

Mrs.  Will  Dixon. 

CHEESE  STICKS 
Cover  buttered  crackers  with  grated   cheese,   set  in  oven 
until  cheese  is  warm.    Serve. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

1  C  flour  1-6  C  ice  water 
3  T  butter  *4  t  salt 

y±  lb.  N.  York  full  cream  cheese     1-16  t  cheyenne  pepper 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour,  butter,  cheese,  salt  and  pepper, 
add  just  enough  ice  water  to  make  a  nice  dough,  roll  out,  cut 
into  strips  4  in.  long  and  %  in.  wide,  also  cut  rings.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  serving  place  three  straws  in  a  ring  which 
will  add  an  attractive  appearance  to  the  salad  plate. 

Mrs.  A.  O.  Rorabaugh. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

y-2  lb.  cheese  %  lb.  butter 

2  eggs  y±  t  salt 

Cut  pie  crust  dough  into  strips  3  in.  long  and  2  in  wide. 
Mix  grated  cheese,  well  beaten  egg  and  butter  and  dip  straws 
into  this.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

CHEESE  WAFERS 

Cut  pie  dough  into  3  inch  squares.  Cook  and  spread  with 
creamed  cheese.    Place  in  oven,  heat  3  min. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

1  qt.  clabber  milk  1  T  butter  or  2  T  cream 

1  qt.  warm  water  %  t  salt 


-311- 


Heat  milk  until  almost  boiling,  add  water  and  turn  into 
strainer  lined  with  cheese  cloth.  Let  drain  until  free  from  whey, 
and  when  cool  add  salt,  butter  or  cream. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Place  2  qts.  of  sour  milk  in  a  gallon  jar,  pour  enough  hot 
water  (boiling)  into  the  milk  to  make  the  whole  mixture  hike 
warm.  Let  stand  3  hrs.  Pour  through  fine  strainer  and  drain 
2  hrs.  Wash  when  cold  and  add  salt  and  sweet  cream  to  make 
rather  soft. 

DREAMS 

12  slices  bread  V-2  lb.  cheese 

6  t  butter 

Toast  bread  on  one  side,  butter  toasted  side,  and  pile  cheese 
between  buttered  toasted  sides  of  bread,  place  in  oven  and  toast. 

GRATED  CHEESE 

Grated  Cheese  is  a  fine  accompaniment  to  soup.  Place  a 
dish  heaped  full  of  grated  cheese  on  the  table,  and  try  some  of 
it  in  the  soup  or  on  the  salad.  A  tablespoonful  of  it  is  good  after 
dessert  on  water  biscuit  or  crackers. 

JERUSALEM  KREPZA 

2  lbs.  flour  Mi  t  sugar 

3  eggs  1  t  salt 

Make  a  pyramid  of  flour  on  the  dough  board,  make  a  de- 
pression in  the  center  and  break  in  the  eggs,  salt  and  sugar. 
Work  flour  into  the  eggs  until  there  is  a  firm  ball  of  dough. 
Form  the  remainder  of  the  flour  into  a  mold  and  follow  the 
proceeding  above  until  all  flour  is  used  up.  Do  not  use  any 
water.  Roll  out  Ys  in.  thick  and  cut  into  3  cornered  pieces  and 
spread  with  the  following: 

1  lb.  cheese  V±  t  salt 

2  eggs 

Grate  cheese,  beat  eggs  and  mix,  fill  Krepza  with  this  mix- 
ture and  fold  over  the  corners  tight  pinching  them  together. 
Drop  into  pan  of  boiling  water.  When  they  rise  to  the  top  take 
out  and  drain  and  fry  until  a  light  brown. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1  can  tomatoes  *4  t  pepper 

V>  box  macaroni  1  C  cheese  (grated) 

1  t  salt 

Roil  macaroni  'til  tender  in  salted  water,  drain.  Grate  cheese 
and  arrange  in  layers  in  baking  dish — macaroni,  tomatoes  and 
cheese.    Season  to  taste  and  bake  %  of  an  hour. 

C.  C. 


-312- 


SPANISH  RABBIT 

1  lb.  cream  cheese  y>  can  pimentos 

1  can  corn  1  egg 

1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup      1  t  flour 

Melt  cheese  in  double  boiler,  add  corn,  tomato  soup,  pimen- 
tos chopped  fine,  seasoning  or  paprika  and  salt.  Let  come  to 
boil,  then  add  one  egg  which  has  been  mixed  with  1  lb.  flour. 
Serve  on  toast. 


UNDER  CHEESE  RELISH 

1  C  grated  cheese  1  C  chopped  nuts 

1  C  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1  T  melted  butter  2  t  chopped  onions 

y2  C  cold  water  Juice  1  lemon 

Vs  t  salt  Vs  t  pepper 

Bake  half  hour,  serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  Brown. 

*  WAR  BRIDES  CHEESE 

4  slices  bread  1  egg 

\x/-2  C  grated  cheese  %  t  salt 

1%  C  milk  Paprika 

Cut  the  bread  into  slices  1  in.  thick,  remove  crusts  and  save, 
toasted  for  soups.  Grease  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread, 
then  a  layer  of  cheese  and  proceed  until  cheese  and  bread  are 
all  used.  Mix  beaten  egg,  salt,  paprika  and  milk  together  and 
pour  over  bread  and  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven 
until  nicely  brown. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

1  T  butter  y4  t  salt 

1  T  flour  or  1  t  corn  starch  1-18  t  pepper 
y2  C  milk  14  t  mustard 
y>  lb.  cheese 

Make  cream  sauce  of  butter  and  flour,  rubbing  flour  in  the 
hot  butter.  When  melted  add  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard. 
When  done  add  cheese  grated  but  do  not  cook  after  cheese  is 
added.  Serve  hot  on  toast.  Rice,  macaroni  or  tomato  may  be 
added. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

2  C  cheese  2  egg-yolks 
y2  C  milk  y2  t  mustard 
1-32  t  pepper  (red) 

Let  milk  come  to  boil,  add  cheese,  when  melted  add  egg- 
yolks,  pepper,  and  mustard.    Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 


-313- 


SANDWICHES 


A  Man's  Sandwich 

Bacon  Sandwich 
Bacon  and  Sardine  Sandwich 
Bridge  Tea  Sandwich 
Brown's  Sandwich 

Caviar  Sandwich 
Checker  Sandwich 
Cheese  Sandwich 
Cheese  Sandwich  Hot 
Cheese  Sandwich,  Hot 
Cheese    and    Pineapple 

Sandwich 
Cheese  and  Strawberry 

Sandwich 
Cherry  and  Pecan  Sandwich 
Chicken  Sandwich 
Club  Sandwich 
Cottage  Chees  and  Jelly 

Sandwich 
Cracker  Sandwich 
Chicken  and  Nut  Sandwich 
Cucumber  Sandwich 

Dream    Cakes 

Fig  Paste 

Filling  for  Sandwich 

Finger  Sandwich 

Fresh  Crisp  Lettuce  Sandwich 

Fried  Egg  Sandwich 

Ginger  and  Nuts  Sandwich 
Grape  Marmalade  and  Nut 
Sandwich 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwich 
Ham  (Potted)   Sandwich 

Lettuce  Sandwich 
Luncheon  Sandwich 
Macedoine  Sandwich 
Meat   Sandwiches 
New  Sandwich 

Nut  Butter  Sandwich 

Olive  Squares 

Patriot  Sandwich 
Picnic  Appetizers 


Mrs.   Warren   Brown 


C  C. 

Mrs.' J.  H..  Black 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 


Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 


Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 
Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 


Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell 


-311 


Pimento  Cheese  and  Nut 
Sandwich 

Ribbon  Sandwich 
Rolled  Sandwich 

Sardine  Sandwich  Mrs.  Chester  Long 

Sorrento  Sandwich 

Spanish  Filling 

Sugar  and  Cinnamon  Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Tartar  Sandwich 

Toasted  Sandwich  Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Tongue  Sandwich 

Welch  Rarebit  Sandwich  C.  C. 


-317- 


SANDWICHES 

All  meat  sandwiches  are  made  after  the  same  recipe.  The 
meat  should  be  chopped  fine,  nicely  seasoned  and  flavorings  ad- 
ded to  blend  with  meat.  For  instance,  season  mutton  with  a  lit- 
tle mint  or  capers,  salt  and  pepper.  To  chopped  beef  add  to- 
mato catsup  in  proportions  of  2  T  each  y2  pt.  of  chopped  meat, 
add  also  salt,  pepper  and  just  a  suspicion  of  onion.  To  chicken 
add  salt,  pepper,  thick  sweet  cream  and  a  little  finely  chopped 
celery.  Spread  these  mixtures  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter.    Cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

A  MAN'S  SANDWICH 

6  pieces  toast  12  sices  tomato 

6  crisp  lettuce  leaves  12  slices  Bermuda  onions 

3  T  chopped  parsley 

Place  between  hot  buttered  toast,  one  lettuce  leaf,  on  top  of 
this  2  slices  of  tomato,  2  of  onion  and  %  t  of  parsley.  Cover 
with  mayonnaise.  A  little  extra  salt  may  be  needed  as  tomatoes 
always  absorb  more  salt  than  any  other  vegetable. 

BACON  SANDWICH 

Bacon  is  always  good  between  bread,  and  especially  so  be- 
tween layers  of  cold  buttered  biscuit.    Bacon  must  be  hot. 

BACON  AND  SARDINE  SANDWICH 

Bacon  and  Sardine  make  a  good  sandwich;  equal  parts  with 
mayonnaise. 

BRIDGE  TEA  SANDWICH 

1  layer  white  bread  1  layer  white  bread 

1  layer  pink  bread  1  layer  pink  bread 

Put  vegetable  coloring  in  bread  when  baking.  Fill  with  any 
favorite  sandwich  filling.  Cut  down  and  serve  in  oblong  sand- 
wiches. 

BROWN'S  SANDWICH 

3  egg-yolks  1  package  neufchatel  cheese 

Vs  can  pimento  %  C  mayonnaise 

Crumble  hard  boiled  egg-yolks.  Chop  pimentos,  add 
cheese  and  mayonnaise,  mix  well  and  spread  between  graham 
or  whole  wheat  bread. 

Mrs.  Warren  Brown 

CAVIAR  SANDWICH 

Mix  caviar  with  lemon  juice  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  white  bread. 


-318- 


CHECKER  SANDWICH 

4  slices  white  bread  8  olives 

4  slices  graham  bread  x/o  t  paprika 

3  T  creamed  butter 

Cut  bread  %  in.  thick.  Chop  olives  very  fine  and  form  a 
paste  with  paprika  and  butter.  Spread  bread  and  place  alter- 
nate layers  of  graham  and  white,  cutting  in  inch  square  sand- 
wiches. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH 

%  C  cream  cheese,  grated  or  1  chopped  pimento 

mashed  Vs  t  salt 

3  chopped  olives  1  t  melted  butter 

Mix  and  spread  on  thinly  sliced  bread.  C.  C. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH  HOT 

Spread  layers  of  white  bread  with  butter,  then  with  grated 
cheese.  Cover  with  a  top  slice  and  press  down  hard.  Place  in 
oven  and  toast.    These  are  delicious  with  tea. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

CHEESE  SANDWICH  HOT 

Slice  bread  very  thin  and  cut  round  with  a  large  biscuit  cut- 
ter. Put  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese  between  the  two  forms, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  press  the 
round  pieces  of  bread  well  together.  Fry  them  to  a  delicate 
brown  on  each  side  in  equal  parts  of  hot  lard  and  butter,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson. 

CHEESE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SANDWICH 

2  T  melted  butter  %  C  pineapple 

%  C  cheese  1  T  lemon  juice 

Chop  pineapple  and  mash  with  cheese,  cover  with  lemon 
juice  and  mix  with  melted  butter.  Spread  between  slices  of 
bread. 

CHEESE  AND  STRAWBERRY  SANDWICH 

Spread  pimento  cheese  between  square  slices  of  buttered 
whole  wheat  bread,  cut  a  round  hole  in  each  corner  of  the  top 
slice  of  bread,  and  put  a  large  preserved  strawberry  in  each  hole. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 


CHERRY  AND  PECAN  SANDWICH 

Maraschino  cherries  and  pecans  with  lemon  juice  to  soften, 
spread  well  on  graham  bread  makes  a  good  sandwich. 

—319— 


CHICKEN  SANDWICH 

1  C  chicken  1  t  capers 

6  stuffed  olives  %  C  mayonnaise 

1  T  parsley 

Chop  chicken,  parsley,  olives,  and  capers  fine;  add  mayon- 
naise, mix  well  and  serve  between  thin  white  bread. 


CLUB  SANDWICH 

1  C  cold  sliced  chicken  3  lettuce  leaves 

2  tomatoes  %  C  mayonnaise 
1  large  dill  pickle  9  slices  toast 

6  slices  bacon 

Toast  bread,  butter  each  slice  well;  place  on  it  first  a  layer 
of  chicken,  then  bacon  and  pickle.  Cover  with  toast  and  on  this 
second  layer  place  lettuce  leaf,  sliced  tomato  and  mayonnaise. 
Top  with  toast.  Should  be  made  quickly  and  served  at  once. 
Ham  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  AND  JELLY  SANDWICH 

Spread  equal  parts  of  cottage  cheese  and  tart  jelly  between 
layers  of  buttered  whole  wheat  bread. 

CRACKER  SANDWICH 

Spread  cracker  wafers  with  cheese  and  put  in  the  oven  2 
min.    Do  not  let  the  cheese  cook  or  it  will  become  tough. 

CHICKEN  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES 

Remove  the  crusts  from  the  four  sides  of  a  loaf  of  bread, 
at  least  twenty-four  hours  old;  then  cut  in  four  slices  length- 
wise. Spread  three  of  the  slices  sparingly  with  butter  which  has 
been  worked  until  creamy,  and  put  layers  together,  using  be- 
tween, two  spreadings  of  chicken  filling  and  one  spreading  of 
nut  filling.  For  the  chicken  filling,  chop  finely  remnants  of  boil- 
ed or  roast  fowl,  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  For 
the  nut  filling,  chop  English  walnuts  or  Pecan  nut  meats  and 
moisten  with  mayonnaise  dressing..  Fold  in  cheese  cloth,  press 
under  a  light  weight,  and  when  serving  time  is  near  at  hand  cut 
in  slices  and  arrange  on  a  sandwich  plate  in  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Jackson 


CUCUMBER  SANDWICH 

Cut  cucumber  very  thin  and  let  stand  1  hr  in  French  dress- 
ing. Drain,  butter  sandwiches  of  wheat  bread,  spread  the  cu- 
cumber on  top  and  add  a  little  chopped  parsley. 


-320- 


DREAM  CAKES  OR  HOT  SANDWICHES 

Slice  bread  very  thin  and  cut  round  with  a  large  biscuit 
cutter.  Put  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese  between  the  two  forms, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  press  the 
round  pieces  of  bread  well  together.  Fry  them  to  a  delicate 
brown  On  each  side  in  equal  parts  of  hot  lard  and  butter,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Davidson. 

FIG  PASTE 

y-2  lb.  figs  l/±  lb.  raisins 

%  lb.  B.  sugar  14  t  salt 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Chop  until  fine  and  spread  between  brown  bread. 


FILLING  FOR  SANDWICH 

1    C  pecans  3  apples 

1  C  B.  sugar  %  t  salt 

1  C  raisins  1  lemon 

Chop  all  very  fine,  use  juice  of  lemon  and  rind  of  lemon 
grated.    More  lemon  juice  may  be  used  if  desired. 

FINGER  SANDWICH 

Spread  Tuna  or  Salmon  with  lemon  juice;  or  lettuce  and 
minced  dill  pickles;  between  slices  of  white  bread.  Cut  4  inches 
long  and  1  inch  wide. 


FRESH  CRISP  LETTUCE  SANDWICH 

Fresh  crisp  lettuce  leaves  laid  between  very  thin  slices  of 
creamed  buttered  bread,  are  fine  with  lemonade  in  summer. 


FRIED  EGG  SANDWICH 
6  eggs  12  slices  bread 

Fry  bacon  or  bake  in  oven  and  fry  eggs  in  the  grease.    Place 
eggs  and  bacon  between  buttered  bread,  salt  and  pepper. 

GINGER  AND  NUT  SANDWICH 

Preserved  ginger  sliced  thin  and  nuts  chopped  fine,  marin- 
ating the  nuts  with  olive  oil  and  salt,  makes  a  good  filling. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE  AND  NUT  SANDWICH 

Spread    grape    marmalade    and    minced    English    walnuts 
equal  parts,  between  slices  of  white  bread. 


-321- 


HAM  AND  EGG  SANDWICH 

1  C  cold  ham  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  T  melted  butter  1  T  lemon  juice 

1  t  mustard  \i  t  salt 

Mince  ham  and  eggs,  add  butter,  lemon  juice,  mustard  and 
salt.    Do  not  butter  bread. 

POTTED  HAM  SANDWICH 
Mix  finely  chopped  pickles  with  mustard,  and  add  to  pot- 
ted ham.     Spread  between  bread. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICH 

1  head  of  lettuce  1  t  capers 

2  T  dill  pickles  4  stuffed  olives 

Wash  and  chill  lettuce.  Chop  other  ingredients  fine,  shred 
lettuce  with  scissors.  Toss  together  and  keep  on  ice  2  hrs.  But- 
ter sandwiches  and  spread  with  above  filling.  Serve  immed- 
iately. 

LUNCHEON  SANDWICH 

Mince  fine  any  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken,  also  mince 
fine  some  well  roasted  peanuts  or  almonds.  Trim  crusts  from 
thin  slices  of  breast  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape.  Butter  and 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  spread  a  little  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing over  it,  then  a  layer  of  minced  nuts.  These  are  delicious  and 
are  fine  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson 


MACEDOINE  SANDWICH 

1  layer  of  white  bread  1  layer  of  white  bread 

1  layer  of  graham  bread  1  layer  of  rye  bread 

Alternate.    Use  nut  filling  and  cut  down  in  slices. 


MEAT  SANDWICHES 

Meat  sandwiches  are  made  after  the  same  recipe.  The 
meat  should  be  chopped  fine,  nicely  seasoned,  and  flavorings  ad- 
ded to  blend  with  meat.  For  instance,  season  mutton  with  a  lit- 
tle mint  or  capers,  salt  and  pepper.  To  chopped  beef,  add  to- 
mato catsup  in  proportions  of  2  T  to  each  y»  pt.  of  chopped  meat; 
add  also  salt,  pepper  and  just  a  suspicion  of  onion.  To  chicken 
add  salt,  pepper,  thick  sweet  cream  and  a  little  finely  chopped 
celery.  Spread  these  mixtures  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter.     Cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Davidson     . 


-322- 


NEW  SANDWICH 

Chop  Canton  preserved  ginger  very  fine,  adding  a  little  of 
the  syrup  to  moisten  when  chopped.  Cut  white  bread  in  fancy 
shapes,  spread  with  sweet  butter,  then  with  the  ginger  mixture. 
Place  another  piece  of  bread  on  top  of  the  lower  slice,  press  to- 
gether and  serve.     Serve  for  afternoon  tea. 

NUT  BUTTER 

Nut  butter  may  be  made  at  home  from  Peanuts,  Almonds, 
Pecans  or  Brazil  Nuts.  Blanch  the  nuts  then  place  in  double 
boiler  and  cook  them  3  hrs.  Remove  while  hot  and  grind.  If 
too  thick  to  spread,  a  little  water  may  be  rubbed  in  with  the 
nuts,  or  if  used  at  once  cream  is  better.  Salt  may  be  added 
Brazil  nuts  need  no  cooking;  after  removing  the  woody  skins 
they  should  be  ground  at  once  and  salted. 

OLIVE  SQUARES 

2  doz.  green  olives  %  C  celery  (cut  fine) 

1  C  mayonnaise  1  t  catsup 

Separate  the  olives  from  the  seeds,  cut  or  chop  fine,  mix 
with  the  catsup,  celery  and  mayonnaise,  and  use  for  the  filling 
for  dainty  3  in.  square  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  Robt.  B.  Campbell. 

PATRIOT  SANDWICH 

6  slices  of  white  bread  6  olives 

1  pimento 

Spread  bread  with  creamed  butter,  3  slices  of  bread  to  each 
sandwich.  On  the  bottom  layer  spread  red  pimento  and  on  the 
upper  layer  spread  chopped  olives.  Cut  an  in.  wide  and  3  in. 
long.  Instead  of  pimento  and  olive,  green  and  red  peppers  can 
be  used  alternately. 

PICNIC  APPETIZERS 

For  picnics  wrap  sandwiches  in  a  damp  cloth  and  they  will- 
arrive  as  fresh  as  when  they  were  made.  Nothing  is  more  re- 
freshing than  a  fruit  or  vegetable  salad  or  cocktail.  This  may 
be  made,  then  packed  into  hollowed-out  oranges,  apples  or  to- 
matoes, the  top  fastened  on  with  a  bit  of  gelatine.  Crisp  celery 
stuffed  with  cheese  is  also  delicious.  Hard-baked  rolls  may  be 
hollowed  out  for  chicken  or  salmon  salad.  Tin  cracker  boxes 
are  just  the  thing  for  baking  picnic  cakes  in.  Do  not  take  the 
cake  from  the  box,  ice  it  and  put  the  cover  on  and  it  will  carry 
beautifully.  Another  good  cake  to  take  on  picnics  is  made  by 
lining  pattypans  with  pie  crust  and  then  baking  gingerbread  in 
them.  They  do  not  crumble  as  plain  cup  cakes  do.  The  pie 
crust  keeps  them  whole.  A  spoonful  of  jelly  may  be  put  into 
the  pans  before  the  batter  is  added. 


-323- 


PIMENTO  CHEESE  AND  NUT  SANDWICH 

1  C  pimento  cheese  6  olives 

y2  C  English  walnuts  Chop  all  fine  and  mix 

RIBBON  SANDWICH 

Use  vegetable  coloring,  red  and  green.  Butter  white  bread, 
mix  cream  cheese  with  coloring,  and  spread  one  layer  with  red 
cheese,  another  with  green  and  so  alternating  until  6  slices  are 
put  together.  Cut  down  crosswise  into  slices,  showing  the  alter- 
nate colors. 

ROLLED  SANDWICH 

Rolled  sandwiches  are  attractive.  These  require  soft  fresh 
bread,  cut  very  thin,  spread  with  a  paste  filling  and  creamed 
butter.    Roll  each  slice  and  secure  with  a  tooth  pick. 

SARDINE  SANDWICH 

1  can  sardines  x/2  t  mustard 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  14  t  lemon  juice 

Chop  sardines,  mince  egg.  Mix  and  add  mustard  and  lemon 
juice. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long 

SORRENTO  SANDWICH 

1  C  chicken  livers  Yo  C  mayonnaise 

1    C   olives 

Chop  and  mix  well. 

SPANISH  FILLING 

1  neufchatel  cheese  8  stuffed  olives 

1/2  t  dry  mustard  Cream  butter  to  spread  bread 

Chop  olives  fine,  mix  all  into  a  paste  and  spread  bread  with 
the  mixture. 

SUGAR  AND  CINNAMON  SANDWICH 

Cut  bread  very  thin,  toast,  butter  generously,  cover  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  heat  in  oven  for  a  few  min.  and  serve  with 
tea  or  cocoa. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black.      • 

TARTAR  SANDWICH 

Spread  whole  wheat  or  graham  bread  with  tartar  sauce,  put 
together  with  lettuce  leaf  and  minced  celery. 

TOASTED  SANDWICH 

Toast  bread  on  one  side.  Butter  untoasted  side,  spread  gen- 
erously with  "nippy"  cheese,  lay  on  slices  of  bacon,  cut  thin  ac- 
cording to  size  of  bread,  and  toast  under  blazer.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 


-324— 


TONGUE  SANDWICH 

1  C  cold  tongue  Mayonnaise 

1  T  parsley  or  1  T  water  cress 

Mince  tongue  and  parsley.     Add  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
spread  between  bread. 

WELCH  RAREBIT  SANDWICH 

Spread  welch  rarebit  between  buttered  slices  of  fresh  bread 
and  roll. 

C.  C. 

Ham,  cold  beef,  tongue,  pressed  chicken,  fried  steak,  canned 
meats,  beef  loaf,  tuna,  salmon  and  sardines,  all  make  good  sub- 
stantial sandwiches. 


—325— 


DRINKS 


Cafe  au  Lait 

Chocolate 

Cold  Lemon  Soup 

Currant  Punch 

Demi  Tasse 

Egg  Lemonade 

Hot  Spiced  Grape  Juice 

Iced  Chocolate 

Iced  Coffee 

Iced  Tea 

Kansas  Julip 

Lemonade 

Lemon  Foam 

Lemon  Juice  with  Sugar 

Lime  Punch 

Mint 

Mint  Punch 

Mint  Water 

Orangeade 

Orange  Eggnog 

Percolated  Coffee 

Pineapple  Lemonade 

Raspberry  Bombe  Glace 

Strawberry  Cocktail 

Summer  Drinks 

Tea-cup 

Tea-Pot 

Tea  punch 

Temperance  Punch 

Vanilla  Punch 


Mrs.  G.  M.  Whitney 
Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis 


Agnes  Long 

Mrs.  Harold  D.  McEwen 


Mrs.  Chester  Long 


Mrs.  Chester  Long 


-328— 


CAFE  AU  LAIT 
Cafe  au  Lait  is  equal  parts  of  coffee  and  boiled  milk  served 
together. 

CHOCOLATE 

1  qt.  milk  3  T  sugar 

2  oz.  chocolate  2  T  hot  water 
1  T  cornstarch 

Mix  the  starch  with  a  little  of  the  milk  and  sugar.  Cook  un- 
till  smooth  and  glossy.    This  serves  6  people. 

Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Whitney. 
iy2  t  grated  chocolate  to  the  cup. 

1  t  cocoa  to  the  cup. 

Cocoa  is  improved  by  adding  cinnamon  or  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  to  it. 

COLD  LEMON  SOUP 

3  qt.  water  juice  of  1  doz.  lemons 
iy2  lbs.  sugar  2  T  arrow  root 

Put  the  thin  yellow  rind  in  the  water  and  sugar  and  boil  10 
min.,  then  strain.  When  luke  warm  add  the  strained  lemon 
juice.  Add  the  arrow  root  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water  to  the 
boiled  water  and  sugar.    Add  the  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Lewis. 

CURRANT  PUNCH 

With  a  wooden  spoon  crush  one  quart  of  red  currants,  add 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  and  2  T  of  strong  fresh  ground  ginger. 
Let  this  stand  over  night.  Strain,  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon 
and  1  qt.  of  cold  water. 

DEMI  TASSE 
Demi  Tasse  is  a  small  cup  of  black  coffee  served  after  dinner. 

EGG  LEMONADE 

2  lemons  4  T  sugar 
1  pt.  boiling  water  1  egg 

Sweeten  lemon  juice,  add  boiling  water,  and  when  ready 
to  serve  add  stiffly  beaten  egg  and  beat  again. 

HOT  SPICED  GRAPE  JUICE 

1  qt.  grape  juice  1  stick  cinnamon 

1  qt.  water  1  lemon,  juice 

1  C  sugar  1  orange,  juice 

1  T  whole  cloves 

Mix  in  order  given,  bring  to  boil,  simmer  until  thoroughly 
spiced.  Serve  hot  with  thin  slice  of  orange.  Spices  should  be 
tied  in  thin  cheese  cloth  bag. 

Agnes  Long. 


-329- 


ICED  CHOCOLATE 

5  T  chocolate  grated  1  qt.  milk 

Y2  C  sugar  1  t  flavoring 

Mix  ingredients  with  one  half  of  milk  and  cook  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  When  cool  add  the  other  half  of  the  milk. 
If  not  smooth  use  egg  heater. 

Mrs.  Harold  D.  McEwen. 

ICED  COFFEE 

Make  coffee  as  strong  as  is  liked.  1  T  coffee  to  the  cup. 
Cool  and  pour  in  tall  glasses,  using  3  T  of  rich  cream  to  each 
glass.    Sugar  to  taste  and  fill  with  shaved  ice. 

ICED  TEA 

1  t  tea  to  the  cup.  Pour  boiling  water  over,  let  stand  until 
cool,  and  serve  in  tea  glasses  with  sugar  and  a  slice  of  lemon 
split  and  struck  on  the  glass. 

KANSAS  JULIP 

6  T  sugar  1  lemon  rind 
18  mint  leaves  5  C  ice  water 
1  C  lemon  juice 

Soak  mint,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  1  hr.  leaving  in  1  lemon 
rind  sliced  into  cubes,  add  water  and  shake  in  lemonade  shaker. 
Wet  edges  of  tall  glasses  and  dip  in  sugar,  fill  glasses  ^4  full  of 
shaved  ice.    Pour  in  mixture  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

LEMONADE 

0  lemons  15  t  sugar 
10  C  water 

Squeeze  juice  from  lemons  and  cut  rinds  into  bits  and  cover 
both  with  sugar.    Let  stand  1  hr.  then  add  ice  water  and  let  stand 

1  hr.,  shaking  or  stirring  well.  This  may  be  strained,  squeezing 
out  rinds,  or  may  be  served  with  the  rinds  left  in.  Do  not  let 
stand  longer  than  2  hrs.  or  it  becomes  bitter.  Serve  with  mint 
spray  or  cherry  on  top.  Mint  lemonade  is  made  by  boiling  4  T 
mint  in  %C  water  and  adding  to  above  when  cool. 

LEMON  FOAM 

3  qts.  water  3  lemons 

1  oz.  cream  tartar  Vo  C  sugar  or  more 

Pour  boiling  water  over  cream  of  tartar,  stir  in  lemon  juice 
and  y2  of  the  rind  cut  in  thin  strips,  add  sugar,  stir  well,  and  let 
cool.    Strain  and  serve  with  ice. 


-330— 


LEMONADE  JUICE  WITH  SUGAR 

Squeeze  out  the  juice  of  lemons  and  to  every  quart  of  juice 
allow  6  lbs.  sugar.  To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  add 
gradually  a  quart  of  water,  pour  over  the  sugar  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  stir  well  until  all  is  dissolved,  then  place  over  the  fire  and 
boil,  skimming  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  there  is  no  more 
scum  add  the  strained  lemon  juice  and  boil  about  ten  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Clean  your  bottles  well, 
rinsing  with  alcohol,  pour  in  your  lemon  juice  and  seal  tightly. 
Will  keep  indefinitely. 

LIME  PUNCH 

Take  %  C  lime  juice  and  mix  with  2%  C  of  sugar  syrupy 
add  2  C  of  pineapple  juice  and  %  C  of  orange  juice.  When 
ready  to  serve,  put  in  glasses  half  filled  with  crushed  ice  and 
add  a  cherry. 

MINT 

3  mint  leaves  to  1  G  of  tea 

4  mint  leaves  to  1  glass  of  lemonade,  orangeade,  or  limeade. 

MINT  PUNCH 

Take  10  sprigs  of  fresh  mint  and  remove  all  the  bruised 
leaves.  Shake  a  cupful  of  crushed  ice  and  ^C  of  sugar  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  the  mint,  pouring  over  it  1  T  of  lemon 
juice;  put  in  a  cupful  of  currant  juice  and  water  to  make  a  quart 
of  liquid.    Add  more  water  if  desired  weaker. 

MINT  WATER 

1  C  mint  leaves  1  pt.  of  hot  water 

Wash,  clean  and  chop  fine  the  mint  leaves,  pack  in  cup, 
cover  with  water  allowing  to  steep  30  min.,  strain  and  use  for 
flavor.    Will  flavor  apple  jelly. 

ORANGEADE 

6  oranges  12  t  sugar 

2  lemons 

Squeeze  juice  of  lemons  and  oranges.  Cut  rind  of  oranges 
in  small  pieces,  cover  with  sugar  and  let  stand  1  hr.  Add  juices, 
shake  well  and  strain.  Dip  the  wet  rim  of  tall  glasses  in  sugar 
giving  a  frosted  look,  and  pile  high  with  crushed  ice. 

ORANGE  EGG  NOG 

5  eggs  4  oranges  (large) 

6  t  sugar 

Beat  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately  until  as  stiff  as  pos- 
sible. Add  sugar  and  cut  orange  into  small  cubes,  mix  together 
and  serve  in  6  portions  in  glasses.  Must  be  ice  cold.  Any  othpr 
fruit  may  be  used. 

—331— 


PERCOLATED  COFFEE 
l1/!  T  coffee  for  each  cup. 

PINEAPPLE  LEMONADE 

1  C  sugar  3  lemons 

3  C  water  1  C  orange  juice 

1  C  pineapple  juice 

Boil  pineapple  and  sugar  in  water  10  min.  Strain.  When 
cool  add  other  juices. 

RASPBERRY  BOMBE  GLACE 

Mash  a  quart  of  red  raspberries,  either  fresh  or  preserved, 
add  half  a  C  of  pineapple  juice  or  grated  pineapple,  1  C  sugar, 
and  1  C  of  water.  Cook  for  10  min.,  remove  from  fire,  add  the 
juice  of  an  orange.  Press  thru  a  sieve  and  add  1  pt.  of  water. 
Serve  with  shaved  ice. 

STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL 

Slice  berries,  cover  with  orange  juice  and  let  stand  2  hrs.  in 
ice  box.  Serve  in  punch  glasses  adding  shaved  ice  and  %  t  sugar 
to  each  glass. 

Mrs.  Chester  Long. 

SUMMER  DRINKS 

Fruit  juices  contain  valuable  mineral  salts  and  can  be  can- 
ned at  home  and  mixed  with  sweetening,  making  a  most  delicious 
pure  drink.  Sugar  should  preferably  be  melted.  Use  1  C  sugar  to 
1  C  water,  boil  3  min.  and  can  to  use  when  needed. 

Cold  chocolate  with  plenty  of  cream,  sugar,  and  chopped  ice. 

Loganberry  juice,  peach  juice,  grape  juice,  pear  juice, 
orange,  lemon,  strawberry,  and  pineapple  juice  or  combinations 
of  these  make  most  delicious  cool  drinks. 

Ice  should  be  shaved  or  broken  in  very  small  pieces  for  all 
;old  drinks. 

Lemonade  or  any  fruit  drink  is  improved  by  being  shaken 
vigorously  in  a  lemonade  shaker. 

(CUP  OF)  TEA 

1  C  water  Tea  ball 

y2  t  tea 

Do  not  use  water  that  has  boiled.  Use  fresh  water  and  do 
not  let  it  boil  over  2  min.  Having  placed  the  tea  in  the  tea  ball, 
place  the  tea  ball  in  a  tea  cup,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  until  as  strong  as  desired.  Serve  with  lemon  bits  and 
orange  strips  and  lump  sugar. 


—332— 


(POT  OF)  TEA— 2  CUPS 

3  C  water  1%  t  tea 

Have  tea  pot  dry  and  hot,  put  in  tea,  in  2  min.,  add  fresh  boil- 
ing water  and  let  stand  3  to  5  min.  according  to  the  strength  de- 
sired.   Strain  into  cups. 

The  best  tea  comes  from  China,  Japan,  Ceylon  and  the  West 
Indies. 

TEA  PUNCH 

Pour  boiling  sweetened  lemonade  on  tea  leaves.  Let  stand 
till  cool.  Strain  and  serve  in  tall  glasses,  with  triangle  of  sliced 
lemon  and  a  sprig  of  mint.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  with 
shaved  ice. 

TEMPERANCE  PUNCH 

1  lb.  raspberries  Bit  of  lemon  rind 

1  lb.  currants  (or  other  fruit)        8  lemons   (juice) 

4  qt.  water  6  oranges  (juices) 
4  C  sugar 
4  C  water 

Mash  raspberries  and  currants  to  a  pulp;  add  4  qts  of  water; 
let  it  stand  covered  for  2  or  3  hrs;  boil  granulated  sugar  and  the  4 
cups  of  water,  dropping  in  a  bit  of  lemon  rind,  for  10  min.  When 
cold  add  juice  of  lemons  and  oranges,  strain  both  mixtures  and 
pour  together,  keep  cold  and  add  finely  crushed  ice  when  ready 
to  serve;  one  pound  of  candied  cherries  may  be  added. 

VANILLA  PUNCH 

x/4  C  boiling  water  2  T  sugar 

1  egg  4  T  milk 

10  drops  vanilla  5  drops  mint 

Add  sugar  to  well  beaten  egg,  then  add  boiling  water,  then 
the  milk  and  vanilla.     Shake  thoroly  and  add  mint. 


1  qt.  finely  crushed  ice 
1  lb  cherries  (candied) 


-333— 


CANDY 


CANDY 


Butter-Scotch 

Candy 

Caramel  Candy 

Caramels 

Cracker-Jack 

Cream  Candy 

Divinity  Candy 

Divinity  Loaf 

Fondant 

Fudges 

Ice  Cream  Candy 

Maple  Loaf 

Mint  Leaves,  Candied 

Nugat,  French 

Patience  Candy 

Smith  College  Fudge 


Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  Lewelling 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Millison 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden 

Mrs.  Phil  Buck 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

C.  C. 

C.  C. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum 


—336— 


BUTTER-SCOTCH 

1  C  sugar  3  t  vinegar 

1  C  Karo  Corn  Syrup  1/3  t  soda 

1  C  butter  %  nutmeg,  grated 

Mix  and  boil  until  when  tested  in  cold  water  it  will  be  brittle 
and  snap  against  the  side  of  the  cup.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  and 
before  it  is  too  hard,  score  it  into  squares  with  a  sharp  knife. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell 

CANDY 

2  C  sugar  V2  C  water 

%  C  water  1  egg  (white) 

Boil  sugar,  syrup,  and  water  until  it  hardens  on  the  edge  of 
the  pan.  Add  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and  whip  until  very  stiff. 
Add  nuts  if  desired. 

CARAMEL  CANDY 

1%  C  granulated  sugar  y2  C  milk 

y2  C  butter  1  C  nuts 

V2  C  syrup 

Boil.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  one  cup  chopped 
nuts. 

Mrs.  Gov.  Lewelling. 

CARAMELS 

iy2  C  sugar  i/2  C  milk 

y2  C  corn  syrup  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  butter 

Cook  until  when  dropped  in  ice  water  it  becomes  hard.  Pour 
in  a  buttered  shallow  pan  and  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Ralph  L.  Millison. 

CRACKER  JACK 

4  qts.  popped  corn  1  C  molasses 

2  C  hulled  peanuts  2  T  butter 
1  C  sugar 

Boil  sugar,  butter  and  molasses  together  until  syrup  will 
hair,  pour  over  popcorn  and  peanuts,  mix  all  together,  and  form 
into  balls. 

CREAM  CANDY 

3  lb.  sugar,  gr.  1  lb.  Karo  Syrup 

1  lb.  nuts  or  fruit  1%  pt.  heavy  cream 

Stir  one  way,  and,  all  the  time  while  cooking,  until 
dropped  in  cold  water  forming  a  ball.  Take  from  fire  and  stir 
until  cool. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Amsden. 

—337— 


DIVINITY  CANDY 

li/2  pt.  cream  1  C  Pecans 

6  C  granulated  sugar  1  slice  candied  pineapple 

1  lb.  dark  Karo  Syrup  1/3  can  candied  cherries 

1  C  Engish  Walnuts  (Both  fruits  cut  in  pieces) 

Boil  cream,  sugar  and  syrup  together  on  low  fire  until  it  be- 
gins to  boil,  then  on  a  hot  fire  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  (Fifteen  or  twenty  minutes).  Remove 
from  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  creamy.  Add  nuts  and  candied 
fruits  and  pour  in  bread  pan  (buttered)  to  form  a  loaf. 

Mrs.  Phil  Buck. 

DIVINITY  LOAF 

6  C  sugar  2  C  golden  drip  syrup 

3  C  cream  3  C  walnuts 

Cook,  sugar,  cream  and  syrup  until  it  tests  a  soft  ball,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Remove  from  stove  and  let  stand  until  it  cools  a 
little,  then  stir  hard  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  broken  nuts, 
and  put  in  a  bread  tin  that  has  previously  been  rinsed  with  cold 
water,  do  not  grease  tin. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

FONDANT 

3  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

1-3  C  glucose  1  t  butter 

1%  C  water 

Cook  until  it  will  soft  ball  in  cold  water,  then  add  Vanilla  and 
butter. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Campbell. 

FUDGES 

2  C  sugar  2  T  butter 

1  C  milk  2  sq.  chocolate 

Boil  till  it  will  make  a  soft  ball  in  water.    Beat  till  stiff. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY 

3  C  light  B.  sugar  y2  t  cream  tartar 
Vi  C  butter                                          1  t  lemon  extract 

Boil  together  sugar,  butter,  and  cream  tarter  till  it  threads, 
leave  till  cool,  add  lemon  while  pulling. 

C.  C. 
MAPLE  LOAF 

3  pt.  granulated  sugar  iy2  pt.  cream 

1  pt.  golden  syrup  iy2  lbs.  nuts 

Boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Cool  a 
little  and  stir  until  it  creams.  Put  in  nuts  broken  in  fine  pieces 
just  before  pouring  into  mold. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 


-338— 


CANDIED  MINT  LEAVES 

1  C  sugar  2  C  mint  leaves 
%  C  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a  thread 
when  dropping  from  spoon.  Add  mint  leaves,  boil  slowly  for  five 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  with  fork  until  sugar  crystal- 
lizes. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Black. 

FRENCH  NUGAT 

Part  1 

2  C  sugar  1  C  boiling  water 

Part  2 
1  C  sugar  1  t  vanilla 

1  C  rock  candy  syrup  3  egg-whites 

Put  Part  1  on  first.  Boil  each  until  it  balls  in  cold  water.  Beat 
egg-whites  and  beat  into  Part  2.  Now  beat  this  into  Part  1.  Add 
vanilla  and  nuts.  Put  a  buttered  paper  in  pan,  and  cut  nugat 
into  squares. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Stanley. 

PATIENCE  CANDY 

3  C  sugar  1  pt.  milk 

%  lb.  walnuts  in  the  shell  Butter  size  of  walnut 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  melt  it  (using  an  aluminum  ket- 
tle) until  this  is  rich  brown.  Add  one  cup  milk  and  stir  until  the 
melted  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  add  rest  of  sugar  and  milk  and 
butter.  Cook  and  stir  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball,  in  water  test. 
Have  nuts  broken  and  in  a  deep  bowl,  turn  candy  over  the  hulled 
nuts  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  beat  as  long  as  possible, 
putting  it  in  a  pan  to  mold. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Smyth. 

SMITH  COLLEGE  FUDGE 

2  C  B.  sugar  Butter  size  of  an  egg 
ICG.  sugar                                      Iron  spoonful  Karo  syrup 
2  sq.  bitter  chocolate  1  C  sour  cream 

2  t  vanilla 

Cook  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  ice  water. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dockum. 


-339- 


A  RECIPE  FOR  A  HOME— FOR  THE  BEGINNER'S  CLASS 


The  beginner's  classes  are  home-lowing  lasses, 

And  here  is  a  way  to  make  it: 

Take  a  pound  of  Sense,  and  a  pound  of  Skili, 

A  pinch  of  Pride,  and  as  much  Goodwill; 

Put  in  Honest  Work  to  taste 

Contentment,  to  make  a  good  rich  paste, 

And  in  Love's  oven  bake  it. 

To  do  to  a  turn, 
With  no  scorch  nor  burn, 
All  the  years  of  a  life  must  be  given; 
With  Unselfishness  make  a  dainty  frost 
Where  Forgiveness  flavor  is  never  lost- 
Then  your  Home  will  have  the  worth 
That  adds  to  the  very  best  things  of  Earth, 
The  sweetness  and  joy  of  heaven. 

Margaret  Hill  McCarter. 


342— 


RECIPES  BY  FAMOUS  WOMEN 


Rhubrab  Marmalade  with 
Almonds 

Mushrooms 
War  Cake 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Gingerbread 

Ragout  of  Duck 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

Date  Bars 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Graham  Bread 

Drop  Cakes 

Suet  or  Plum  Pudding 

Corn  Bread 

Sponge  Cake 

Hard  Sugar  Ginger  Bread 

Famous  Blackberry  Jam 

Snowball  Pudding 

Mustard  Pickle 

Conserve  of  Red  Raspberries 

Nutted  Cream 

Chicken  Turbit 

Bunting  Hash 

Delicious  Sweet  Potatoes 

Pimento  Cheese  Filling 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

Fried  Peaches 

Beet  Relish 

Cocoanut  Pudding 

Potato  Cakes 

Scotch  Shortbread 

Pork  Cake 


Mrs.  Theodore  Roosevelt, 

Oyster  Bay,  N.  Y. 
Mrs.  William  Howard  Taft. 
Mrs.  Brand  Whitlock 
Miss  Mable  Boardman 
Mrs.  Charles  F.  Scott 
Mrs.  Charles  F.  Scott 
Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell 
Mrs.  T.  N.  Tincher 
Mrs.  T.  N.  Tincher 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Hoch 
Mrs.  S.  J.  C.  Crawford 
Mrs.  S.  J.  C.  Crawford 
Mrs.  L.  U.  Humphrey 
Mrs.  Guy  T.  Helvering 
Mrs.  John  J.  Ingalls 
Senator  Ingall's  Mother 
Mrs.  John  J.  Ingalls 
Mrs.  William  Jennings  Bryan 
Mrs.  George  H.  Hodges 
Miss  Mary  Best 
Mrs.  W.  J.  Bailey 
Mrs.  Arthur  Capper 
Mrs.  Jouett  Shouse 
Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 
Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 
Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell 
Mrs.  William  A.  Johnston 
Mrs.  William  A.  Johnston 
Mrs.  Charles  Curtis 
Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell 
Miss  Mary  Best 
Mrs.  John  R.  Connelly 


—343- 


RHUBARB  MARMALADE  WITH  ALMONDS 

1  qt.  finely  cut  rhubarb  2  T  shelled  and  blanched  Jor- 

2  C  granulated  sugar  dan  almonds 
*4  C  water 

Wash  and  dry  the  rhubarb  (do  not  skin),  cut  in  very  small 
pieces;  put  in  agate  or  porcelain-lined  kettle,  cover  with  the 
sugar,  add  the  water;  place  over  slow  fire  5  min.,  stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved,  then  boil  rapidly  for  5  min.,  reduce  the  heat  and 
boil  40  min.  very  slowly.  Be  sure  to  remove  all  scum  as  it  arises. 
Add  the  almonds  which  have  been  blanched  and  sliced  very  fine, 
boil  5  min.  longer.  Sterilize  the  glasses  or  jars.  Put  the  mar- 
malade in  at  once  and  cover.  When  cold  put  in  cool,  dark  place 
for  winter  use.  This  amount  makes  3  glasses.  For  12  glasses 
use: 

4  qts.  of  rhubarb  1  C  shelled  and    blanched    al- 

8  C  sugar  (4  lbs.)  monds 

1  C  water 

Mrs.  Theodore  Roosevelt, 

Oyster  Bay,  N.  Y. 


MUSHROOMS 

1  lb.  of  mushroms  6  slices  of  toast 

1  t  butter  Salt 

1   C  cream  Pepper 

The  mushroom  bells  are  made  of  fireproof  glass.  One  lb.  of 
large  fresh  mushrooms,  peel  and  remove  stems.  Saute  the  mush- 
rooms in  butter,  salt  and  pepper  1  min.  Add  the  cup  of  cream, 
and  simmer  10  min.  Put  the  toast,  which  has  been  toasted  on  1 
side,  in  the  "nappes"  which  come  with  the  bells.  Cover  with 
the  mushrooms,  pour  the  liquid  over,  put  on  the  covers,  bake 
from  15  to  20  min.    Serve  without  removing  the  bells. 

Mrs.  William  Howard  Taft 


WAR  CAKE 

2  C  hot  water  2  C  B.  sugar 

2  T  lard  (can  use  y2  Crisco  and  1  t  salt 

V-2   oil)  It   cloves 

1  pkg.     seedless     raisins     (cut  1  t  cinnamon 

once) 

Boil  all  these  ingredients  5  min.  after  they  begin  to  bubble. 
When  cold  add  1  t  soda  dissolved  in  1  t  of  hot  water  and  3  C  sift- 
ed flour.  Bake  in  2  loaves  45  min.  in  slow  oven.  This  cake  is 
better  when  a  few  days  old. 

Mrs.  Brand  Whitlock. 
Miss  Mable  Boardman. 


—344- 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

5  to  7  raw  oysters  or  clams  for  1  t  Worcestershire  sauce 

each  service  1  t  lemon  juice 

1  T  tomato  catsup  4  drops  Tabasco  sauce 

1  t  horseradish  V±  t  salt 
1  t  tarragon  vinegar 

Mix  all  the  seasonings  thoroughly,  add  the  bivalves  and  set 
in  the  ice  box  to  become  thoroughly  chilled  and  blended  before 
serving. 

Mrs.  Charles  F.  Scott 


GINGERBREAD 

1  C  New  Orleans  Molasses  2  t  ginger 

1  C  B.  sugar  V2  t  cinnamon 

V2  C  butter  Vi  t  nutmeg 

1  C  buttermilk  i/±  t  salt 

3  eggs  1  t  soda 
2%    C  pastry  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  butter,  molasses  and  spices,  cook  until  nearly 
to  the  candying  point.  Beat  in  soda  and  cool.  Add  buttermilk 
and  egg-yolks,  beaten  light,  then  flour  and  lastly  the  well  beaten 
whites.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  kills  the  flavor  to  hurry 
it.     Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  Charles  F.  Scott 


RAGOUT  OF  DUCK 

1  pair  of  ducks  1  bay  leaf 

2  T  flour  1  pt.  stock  or  boiling  water 
2  T  butter                                           1  t  lemon  juice 

1  T  onion  juice  6  mushrooms 

Prepare  ducks  for  basking  and  place  them  in  a  pan.  Put 
thin  slices  of  bacon  over  breasts  and  add  %  C  water  and  salt  and 
bake  until  tender,  but  not  too  done,  about  1  hr.  Take  from  the 
oven  and  carve.  Put  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Cook  until  brown, 
add  flour,  stir  until  smooth.  Then  add  stock  or  boiling  water 
stirring  continually  until  it  boils.  Then  add  onion  juice,  lemon 
juice,  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper  and  mushrooms  chopped  fine. 
Add  ducks,  and  all  juice  from  plate  upon  which  they  were  carv- 
ed. Cover  and  simmer  gently  about  20  min.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  serve  on  heated  dish  with  border  of  toasted  bread  cut 
in  triangles.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell 


-345— 


PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE 

2-3  C  sweet  milk  3  T  peanut  butter 

2  C  sugar 

Put  over  fire  and  boil  until  it  will  make  a  soft  ball  in  water. 
Remove  and  stir  until  creamy.     Pour  into  buttered  pans  to  cool. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 

DATE  BARS 

1  C  sugar  1  C  flour 

3  eggs  1  t  B.  P. 
1  C  chopped  English  walnuts  y±  t  salt 
1  lb.  dates 

Beat  egg-yolks,  combine  with  sugar,  stir  until  creamy.  Mix 
together,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  nuts  and  dates 
stoned  and  quartered.  Beat  egg-whites  stiff  and  add  alternately 
with  the  flour  mixture  to  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a  sheet 
in  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  30  min.  Remove  from  the 
pan,  cut  into  bars,  roll  in  powdered  sugar,  or  ice  with  orange  or 
chocolate  frosting  and  decorate  with  nut  meats  or  with  stoned 
dates. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  can  of  pumpkin  *4   t  salt 

iy2  C  sugar  1  pt.  milk 

1  T  butter  1  C  cream 

1  t  ginger  4  eggs 
1  t  cinnamon 

Put  pumpkin  in  a  stew  pan  and  let  cook  slowly  for  %  hr., 
or  until  it  is  quite  dry.  To  this  add  the  sugar,  butter,  ginger, 
cinnamon  and  salt.  Then  add  the  milk  and  cream  and  the  well 
beaten  eggs.  Stir  all  together  thoroughly.  Put  in  pans  lined 
with  good  pastry,  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  cold  with  a  large 
spoon  of  whipped  cream  on  each  piece.     This  will  make  2  pies. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Hoch. 


GRAHAM  BREAD 

2  C  flour  1  egg 

2  C  graham  3  t  B.  P. 

]/2  C  sugar  %  t  salt 
%  C  molasses 

Melt  the  molasses  and  add  the  sugar,  then  egg,  then  dry  in- 
gredients sifted  together.  Bake  as  for  cake.  Serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  C.  Crawford 


— 34G— 


DROP  CAKES 

1  egg  %  t  nutmeg 

%  C  milk  1  t  B.  P. 

1  T  sugar  Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter 

%  t  salt 

Drop  in  fat  and  fry.  As  you  take  them  out  drop  them  into 
a  plate  of  pulverized  sugar  and  roll  once.  They  look  like  snow 
balls.     If  they  should  soak  fat,  add  another  egg  and  more  flour. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  C.  Crawford 

SUET  OR  PLUM  PUDDING 

1  C  suet  2V2  C  flour 

1  C  molasses  1  C  or  more  of  raisins 

1  t  soda  in  molasses  1  T  cinnamon 

1  C  sweet  milk  %  t  cloves 

Steam  3  or  4  hrs.  in  greased  baking  powder  cans  filled  % 
full. 

Mrs.  L.  U.  Humphrey 

CORN  BREAD 

1  egg  2  T  sugar 

±y2   C  milk  3  t  B.  P. 

1  C  flour  1   t  salt 

2  C  corn  meal  3  T  melted  butter 

Mix  flour,  meal,  sugar,  salt  and  B.  P.,  stir  into  beaten  egg  and 
milk,  add  melted  butter  and  stir  until  smooth.  This  recipe 
should  be  appreciated  by  all  the  people  of  the  state  where  corn 
is  King. 

Mrs.  Guy  T.  Helvering 

SPONGE  CAKE 

12  eggs  2  t  cream  of  tartar 

1  lb.  of  granulated  sugar  %  t  salt 
y2  lb.  of  flour 

Sift  flour  with  the  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  3  times.  Separ- 
ate the  eggs,  beat  yolks  thoroughly  and  add  sugar  gradually.  Add 
then  the  well  beaten  whites  and  lastly  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  50  min.     Ice  with  a  lemon  icing. 

Mrs.  John  J.  Ingalls. 

HARD  SUGAR  GINGER  BREAD 

3  C  granulated  sugar  1   t  soda 

2  C  butter  .  2  T  ginger 
1  C  sour  milk 

Enough  flour  to  roll  out  like  biscuit  dough.  Cut  in  strips  8 
in.  by  2.     Mark  with  the  back  of  knife.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Senator  Ingall's  Mother 


-347- 


FAMOUS  BLACKBERRY  JAM 

2  gal.  blackberries  1  qt.  sugar 

1  pt.  water 

Take  2  gal.  of  blackberries,  pick  over  and  wash  carefully. 
Cover  with  a  pint  of  water  and  cook  until  soft.  Put  pulp  and 
juice  through  a  wire  sieve.  Take  1  qt.  of  the  strained  juice  and 
pulp,  put  in  a  granite  kettle  and  place  on  stove.  When  it  boils 
add  1  qt.  of  heated  granulated  white  sugar;  boil  steadily  until  it 
jellies.  It  can  be  easily  tested  by  dropping  a  little  on  a  cold 
saucer.  Pour  in  glasses  and  seal.  Fruit  must  not  be  quite  ripe. 
Wild  berries  are  the  best.  Never  make  more  than  a  qt.  at  a 
time. 

Mrs.  John  J.  Ingalls 

SNOWBALL  PUDDING 

Pare  and  core  6  apples,  steam  them,  run  through  colander, 
add  1  C  sugar,  let  stand  till  cold,  then  beat  whites  of  3  eggs  stiff. 
Stir  all  together  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  William  Jennings  Bryan 


MUSTARD  PICKLE 

1  small  head  cauliflower  2  qt.  cucumber 

2  qt.  small  onions  1  pt.  small  pickles 

2  qt.  sliced  green  tomatoes 

Cut  in  half  the  whole  small  pickles.  Cut  the  cucumbers, 
then  cut  in  chunks. 

6  green  peppers  ground  1  or  2  sweet  red  mangoes  cut  in 

strips 

Soak  all  in  weak  brine  and  scald. 

Mustard  paste: 

2-3  C  flour  2  t  cinnamon 

3  T  ground  mustard  2  t  cloves 

l1/?  T  tumeric  Some  nutmeg  and  celery  seed 

3  C  B.  sugar 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  2  qt.  of  vinegar  (diluted  if  very 
strong).  Cook  well  and  pour  over  pickle  after  it  has  been  well 
drained.     Cook  slowly  about  30  min.     Stir  often. 

Mrs.  George  H.  Hodges 

CONSERVE  OF  RED  RASPBERRIES 

1  lb.  red  raspberries  1%  lb.  sugar 

To  each  lb.  of  red  raspberries  allow  iy2  lb.  of  sugar.  Put 
raspberries  into  pan,  mash  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  add 
sugar.    Place  on  stove  and  let  remain  until  scum  rises  with  a  few 


-348- 


bubbles,  do  not  allow  to  boil  beyond  1  min.  When  the  process 
is  finished  seal  and  keep  in  cool  place.  This  jam  keeps  perfectly. 
It  looks  and  tasts  like  fresh  crushed  fruit.  Served  with  thick 
cream  (not  whipped)  it  is  delicious. 

Miss  Mary  Best 

NUTTED  CREAM 

%  box  Knox  gelatine  1  pt.  cream 

%  C  cold  water  1  C  chopped  pecans 

%  C  powdered  sugar 

Cover  a4  box  of  Knox's  gelatine  with  %  C  of  cold  water  and 
let  soak  %  hr.  Whip  1  pt.  cream  stiff.  Add  %  C  powdered  sugar, 
1  C  chopped  pecans,  and  1  t  vanilla.  Pour  3  or  4  T  of  water  over 
gelatine  and  set  over  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  it  is  thoroughly 
dissolved.  When  entirely  cool  and  before  the  gelatine  begins  to 
set  pour  into  mixture  and  stir  well  until  it  starts  to  thicken.  Keep 
covered  till  served. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Bailey 

CHICKEN  TURBIT 

3  chickens  2  T  flour 

1  can   mushrooms  1  pt.  cream 

2  T  melted  butter  1  pt.  stock 

Melt  butter  in  skillet,  add  flour,  mix  well,  add  the  cream  and 
the  stock.  Stir  till  it  thickens.  Boil  the  chickens  and  cut.  Mix 
all  together  and  bake  in  the  oven  with  bread  crumbs  on  top. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Capper. 

BUNTING  HASH 

Buy  steak  cut  from  the  round  about  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long  and  half  an  inch  wide.  Stew  in  butter 
without  browning  in  a  covered  pan  until  tender.  Be  careful  not 
to  allow  meat  to  fry.  When  cooked  thoroughly  pour  into  the 
vessel  sufficient  milk  for  gravy.  Thicken,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Jouett  Shouse. 

DELICIOUS  SWEET  POTATOES 

V±  C  broken  pecan  meats  or 
walnut  meats 

Few  grains  of  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg 

x/±  lb.  marshm allows 

Peel  and  cut  potatoes  in  small  pieces  and  boil  as  Irish  pota- 
toes. 3  moderately  sized  large  sweet  potatoes  will  be  ample  for 
the  amount  specified.  When  mashed  add  the  sugar,  butter,  salt 
and  spice,  beat  until  light  and  puffy,  then  stir  in  the  raisins  and 
the  nuts.  Pile  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  dot  with  the  marsh- 
mallows  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 


-349- 


3  C  mashed  potatoes 

■%  c 

sugar 

Ya  C 

butter 

%  c 

raisins 

1-3  t 

salt 

PIMENTO  CHEESE  FILLING 

y2  C  vinegar  %  t  salt 

1  T  butter  V\  T  sugar 

1  well  beaten  egg  1  lb.  cheese 

1  t  cornstarch  1   small  can  pimentos 

Make  the  salad  dressing  and  while  hot  add  the  cheese  and 
pimentos  which  have  been  run  through  the  food  chopper. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Tincher 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

1  qt.  granulated  sugar  4  lemons 

1  large  can  grated  pineapple      3  egg-whites 

Make  a  thick  syrup  and  pour  it  boiling  hot,  over  the  pine- 
apple. Add  juice  and  pulp  of  the  lemons.  After  the  syrup  has 
been  allowed  to  cool  put  into  a  gallon  freezer,  stir  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  fill  with  water  to  within  one  quart  of 
the  top.    This  will  serve  20  persons. 

Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell. 


FRIED  PEACHES 

Select  large  free-stone  peaches,  divide  in  halves,  but  do  not 
peel.  Have  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter  in  skillet  and  place 
peaches  open  side  down.  Cook  over  slow  fire  until  tender.  Then 
turn  them,  fill  seed  cavities  with  sugar,  cover  again  and  cook  un- 
til sugar  is  in  a  syrup.  Serve  hot.  This  is  a  nice  breakfast  or 
luncheon  dish  in  warm  weather. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Johnston. 


BEET  RELISH 

3  or  4  medium  sized  beets  2  stalks  of  celery 

3  onions  2  green  peppers  (mangoes) 

Grind  coarse  or  chop,  add  salt  to  taste  and  cover  the  whole 
with  sweetened  vinegar. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Johnston. 


COCOANUT  PUDDING 

2  eggs  5  T  bread  crumbs 

1  C  sugar  1  C  raisins,  seeded 

1  pt.  milk  14  C  melted  butter 
!/4  lb.  cocoanut 

Cream  sugar  with  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  in  the  beaten  whites,  add 
milk  and  cocoanut,  bread  crumbs  and  raisins,  beat  together  and 
add  butter  last.     Bake  until  browned.     Serve  not  too  cold. 

Mrs.  Charles  Curtis 


-350- 


POTATO  CAKE 

1  C  butter  4  eggs 

2  C  sugar  1  C  raisins 

3  C  flour  1   C  grated  chocolate 
y-2    C  milk  %  C  pecan  meats 

1  C  mashed  potatoes  1-3  t  cinnamon 

2  t  B.  P.  1-3  t  cloves 

1  t  salt  1-3  t  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  then  add 
milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  spices  together.  Add  these, 
then  chocolate,  then  pecans  and  raisins  well  floured,  potatoes 
beaten  light  and  cold,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  either  white  or  chocolate 
frosting. 

Mrs.  Phillip  P.  Campbell 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD 

2  lb.  flour  1  ounce  of  sweet  almonds 
1  lb.  butter  Candied  peel 

y2  lb.  powdered  sugar 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  gradually  dredge  in  the  flour, 
and  sugar,  add  almonds  which  should  be  blanched  and  cut  in 
pieces.  Work  paste  until  very  smooth  and  divide  in  6  pieces. 
Put  each  cake  on  separate  sheet  of  white  paper,  pat  out  square 
until  1  in.  thick,  pinch  edges,  and  ornament  with  strips  of  cand- 
ied peel.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  or  40  min.  This  Scotch 
cake  will  keep  as  long  as  the  family  does  not  know  of  its  where- 
abouts. Caraway  seeds  are  often  used  in  Scotland  instead  of 
almonds.     Eoth  may  be  omitted. 

Miss  Mary  Best 

PORK  CAKE 

1  lb.  fat  pork,  ground  1   t  cinnamon 

1  pt.  boiling  water  poured  over      1    t   ginger 

fat  1  t  lemon  extract 

2  C  sugar  2  C  flour 

3  eggs  well  beaten  1   t  soda 

Stir  the  above  ingredients  into  a  dough.  Then  add  the  fol- 
lowing mixture: 

2  C  flour  2   C   raisins 

1V4  t  B.  P.  1    C   currants 


Bake  about  40  min. 


Mrs.  John  R.  Connelly 


-351- 


THINGS  YOU  SHOULD  KNOW 

Making  the  tea  for  ice  tea  in  the  morning,  and  letting  it  cool 
for  dinner  or  lunch  saves  ice. 

Soda  should  be  mixed  with  the  dry  flour,  never  stirred  into 
liquid  as  much  of  the  rising  quality  is  lost  in  the  wetting. 

Soda  or  B.  P.  mixtures  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  in 
a  warm  place,  but  should  be  put  in  oven  at  once. 

Sometimes  cake  falling  may  be  avoided  by  putting  a  piece  of 
paper  over  the  top  of  the  cake  at  first. 

Fruit  cake  recipes  call  for  dried  currants  these  are  hard  and 
lack  flavor,  try  using  an  equal  measure  of  chopped  prunes.  They 
hold  moisture  and  impart  a  delicious  flavor. 

So  many  left  over  bits  of  meats  or  vegetables  may  be  com- 
bined with  cream  sauce  and  served  on  stale  bread  toasted. 

Use  lemon  juice  in  salads  and  you  have  a  more  delicate 
salad  than  useing  vinegar. 

"The  Dinner  never  should  await  the  guests;  but  the  guests 
the  dinner." 

Crisco  burns  at  a  lower  temperature  than  butter.  Does  not 
absorb  odors. 

Carron  Oil,  which  is  half  Linseed  oil  and  half  lime  water,  is 
a  wonderful  remedy  for  burns.  Pour  on  burn  at  once,  saturate 
gauze  with  the  oil,  cover  burn,  and  rap  in  cotton.  Do  not  place 
the  cotton  next  the  burn,  keep  well  saturated,  several  days,  no 
scars  will  result  and  there  are  no  bad  effects. 

Rose  Jar.  Gather  leaves  put  in  bread  tray  and  salt,  leave  for 
one  week  tossing  and  mixing  daily,  until  dry;  about  5  to  7  days. 
Pack  away  in  stone  jar  for  6  weeks  to  ripen  when  it  may  be  put 
into  rose  jar.  This  will  be  fragrant  many  years  and  is  lovely 
placed  in  a  linen  closet  or  dresser  drawers. 

%  ounce  violet  sachet  %  ounce  of  Rose 

V-2,  ounce  of  heliotrope  1  T  cloves 

1  T  Cinnamon  1  T  allspice 


WASHING  FLUID 

1  can  of  lye  2  ozs.  of  lump  amonia 

2  ozs.  of  salts  tartar  1  lb.  of  borax  in  lump 
2%  gallons  water 

Use  one  cup  in  a  boiler  of  water,  with  soap  cut  fine. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW 

1  bar  laundry  soap  5  cents  gloss  starch 

1  qt.  soft  water  3  lemons 

1  C  salt  Kansas  sunshine 

Cut  laundry  soap  fine,  and  boil  in  the  water,  add  salt,  starch 
and  lemon  juice,  dip  and  wet  garment  in  this  thoroughly  and  ex- 
pose to  sun  until  the  mildew  disappears,  mixture  should  be  like 
soft  soap. 


—352— 


A  SPECIFIC  FOR  POISON  OAK  OR  IVY 

A  solution  of  Chinosol  is  a  specific  for  poison  oak  or  Ivy.  One 
tablet  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  water.  The  tablets  come  12  in  a 
package.  Put  it  on  a  piece  of  cotton  and  apply. 

TO  REMOVE  SPOTS 

Five  cents  worth  Oxalic  acid,  dissolved  in  half  pint  water. 
Rub  on  spots  over  old  soft  cloth,  when  dim,  rinse  spots  with  fresh 
water. 

TO  PACK  EGGS 

Put  1  quart  liquid  glass  in  stone  jar  with  12  quarts  water. 
Add  fresh  eggs  as  you  get  them.    Infertile  eggs  best. 

To  spread  butter  when  hard  have  some  boiling  water  handy 
and  dip  the  point  of  the  knife  into  it  each  time.  This  will  enable 
you  to  butter  the  thinnest  bread  without  spoiling  the  slice. 

If  a  little  salt  be  sprinkled  over  dishes  on  which  eggs  have 
been  served  the  dishes  will  wash  easily. 

When  preparing  a  chicken  try  rubbing  inside  with  a  piece  of 
lemon,  and  you  will  find  it  very  good,  as  it  whitens  the  flesh  and 
makes  it  more  tender. 

To  remove  old  putty  from  window  after  the  glass  has  been 
taken  out,  pass  a  hot  soldering  iron  or  poker  over  it.  This  softens 
it  and  it  is  easily  removed. 

Pop  overs,  puffs,  omeletes  and  custards  cooked  too  fast  will 
fall  apart. 

Salt  will  remove  egg  stain  from  silver  when  applied  dry 
with  a  soft  cloth. 

Squeaking  doors  should  be  oiled  on  the  hinges. 

If  the  white  porcelean  of  the  sink  becomes  stained,  wet  it 
and  sprinkle  cloride  of  lime  into  it.  Let  stand  about  half  an 
hour  and  it  will  become  white. 

Open  a  can  on  the  side.    It  is  easier. 

Cookies  split  in  the  center  and  burst  when  baked  too  quickly 
on  top. 

Roiling  the  burners  on  the  gas  stove  in  soap  suds  once  in  a 
while  keeps  them  free  from  gummy  substances  and  permits  the 
supply  of  gas  to  flow  more  freely. 

Making  out  a  menu  for  breakfasts  and  dinners  every  day  for 
a  week  saves  much  wear  and  tear  on  the  home  maker's  thought 
machine.    Lunch  can  be  a  time  to  use  left  overs. 

If  you  feel  very  tired  and  drowsy,  dash  very  cold  water  in 
your  face. 

An  insipid  pudding  should  have  a  strongly  flavored  sauce, 
and  vice  versa. 

Never  allow  meat  to  stand  in  water.  The  water  drains  out 
the  juice. 

Every  good  housewife  knows  the  importance  of  having  nov- 
elty in  the  meals. 


-353- 


Salt  should  never  remain  in  anything  rubber.  It  causes  the 
rubber  to  rot. 

Prunes  cooked  without  adding  sugar  are  more  wholesome 
and  better  flavored. 

Spinach  is  in  a  class  by  itself  because  of  its  large  amount  of 
iron. 

To  clean  furs,  moisten  some  bran  with  hot  water;  rub  fur 
with  it,  and  dry  with  a  flannel,  then  rub  with  a  piece  of  muslin 
and  some  dry  bran. 

If  you  rinse  a  plate  with  cold  water  before  breaking  the  eggs 
on  it,  add  to  them  a  pinch  of  salt  and  then  stand  where  there  is 
a  current  of  air  and  you  will  have  no  difficulty  in  beating  them 
to  a  froth. 

If  you  wish  a  beautifully  browned  pie  crust,  brush  with 
cream  or  milk  when  ready  for  oven. 

The  finger  marks  on  a  door  can  be  removed  by  a  clean  flan- 
nel cloth  dipped  in  kerosene  oil;  afterward  wipe  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  in  hot  water  in  order  to  take  the  smell  away. 

To  prevent  cakes,  pies  and  other  pastry  from  burning  on  the 
bottom,  sprinkle  the  bottom  of  the  oven  with  fine,  dry  salt,  and 
your  cake  or  pies  will  bake  perfectly. 

Fried  things  are  more  indigestible,  because  the  fat  reaches 
a  higher  temperature  which  dissolves  into  fatty  acids. 

When  you  are  digging  in  the  garden  you  will  be  discourag- 
ed to  find  how  the  dirt  clings  under  your  nails.  Try  rubbing 
soap  under  the  nails  before  you  go  out  to  work.  It  will  form  a 
fine  protection  against  dirt  and  will  not  be  hard  to  remove  when 
the  digging  is  done. 

Don't  make  the  mistake  of  using  your  table  or  bed  linen  in 
rotation,  one  after  the  other.  Use  a  few  changes  until  they  are 
worn  out,  then  take  the  next  best  and  add  new  ones  to  your 
store.  In  this  way  you  will  not  be  embarrassed  by  finding  every- 
thing in  holes  at  once.  The  same  thing  refers  to  personal  under- 
clothes. 

Dampen  clothes  with  a  whisk  broom,  it  is  far  better  than 
the  hand  and  eaiser. 

Never  pour  grease  down  a  drain.  If  you  have  not  a  sink 
strainer  to  catch  the  grease  try  laying  a  piece  of  paper  over  the 
drain  before  pouring  out  greasy  water.  The  paper  will  catch 
the  grease  and  can  be  burned. 

Too  much  starch  will  cause  linen  to  crack  in  the  folds. 

When  ironing  linen,  move  the  iron  with  the  threads,  never 
diagonally. 

To  keep  curtains  from  blowing,  cover  small  tailor's  weights 
with  goods  of  the  color  of  the  curtains  and  sew  to  the;  lower 
corners. 

If  bottles  of  medicine  are  to  be  carried  when  traveling,  dip 
the  tops  in  melted  paraffine  to  prevent  leaking.  Do  not  cork  too 
tightly  or  the  cork  will  "work  up." 

—354— 


Never  allow  milk  to  remain  uncovered. 

Wood  ashes  make  a  good  polish  for  tinware. 

Minced  olives  in  potato  salad  are  an  improvement. 

Heat  sugar  and  milk  first  when  making  doughnuts. 

Onions  peeled  under  water  will  prevent  your  eyes  from 
watering. 

Cream  doubles  its  bulk  in  whipping.  It  must  be  cold  and 
24  hours  old  to  whip. 

Cold  butter  is  more  digestible  than  warm,  because  the  heat 
dissolves  the  butter  into  fatty  acids  which  are  indigestible. 

A  small  child  should  have  a  small  quantity  of  orange  juice 
a  day. 

To  remove  coffee  stains  from  silk,  pour  pure  glycerine  on 
the  stain,  put  in  bath  towel  rub  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  repeat  the 
operation,  sponge  in  soft  water  in  fine  white  soap,  until  all  dis- 
appears. 

Rub  the  top  of  a  drawer  or  the  hinges  of  a  door  with  soap 
if  they  creak. 

Paint  brushes  make  by  far  the  most  convenient  and  satisfac- 
tory dusters  for  crevices,  woodwork  and  carved  surfaces.  A 
housekeeper  will  find  several  sizes  worth  having  in  the  house. 

Tack  Indian  Head  bordered  with  rick  rack  back  of  the  stove 
and  the  table  in  the  kitchen  to  protect  the  walls. 

Soapstone  set  over  a  low  gas  flame  will  cook  food  much  bet- 
ter than  setting  food  over  a  high  gas  flame.  Any  kind  of  food 
requiring  long  cooking  can  be  done  much  more  economically 
in  this  way.    Meat  is  especially  good. 

A  soapstone  griddle  does  not  require  greasing.  It  is  de- 
signed for  the  purpose  of  doing  away  with  all  disagreeable  smell 
of  grease  and  smoke.  See  that  it  is  perfectly  smooth  and  thor- 
oughly heated  before  pouring  on  the  batter.  When  once  heated 
to  proper  degree  it  can  easily  be  kept  at  uniform  heat.  If  too 
cold  the  cakes  will  stick.  Have  a  clean  oven  cloth  or  large  paint 
brush  and  brush  off  the  griddle  after  each  baking.  But  it  must 
never  be  greased. 

To  give  castor  oil  put  the  dose  in  orange  juice  with  the  tiniest 
bit  of  soda  stirred  in  to  make  it  foam. 

Furs  and  woolens  may  be  kept  free  from  moths,  if  they  are 
well  cleaned  before  putting  away.  Then  line  a  box  with  news- 
paper so  there  are  no  cracks  for  moths  to  enter,  sprinkle  either 
tobacco,  camphor  or  moth  balls  in  with  the  clothes  or  furs.  Cover 
well  with  newspaper  and  no  moths  will  enter. 

Rugs  should  be  well  cleaned,  rolled  with  newspapers  in  be- 
tween each  layer;  and  moth  balls.  The  ends  should  be  tied  in 
newspapers  also. 

The  ink  on  the  newspaper  is  an  enemy  of  the  moth.     Mice 
will  not  enter  a  drawer  where  there  is  camphor. 
Rub  spots  with  yolk  of  eggs  before  washing. 
Put  tough  meat  in  vinegar  before  cooking. 

—355— 


Rubbing  with  chloroform  will  remove  paint  from  goods. 
Kerosene  oil  or  gasoline  cleans  silks. 

When  flat  irons  stick  or  become  rusty  rub  them  on  cedar 
when  hot. 

Tar  may  be  removed  from  cloth  with  turpentine. 

Machine  grease  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  the  spot  with 
pure  lard,  or  spot  may  be  saturated  with  turpentine. 

Place  a  pitcher  of  cold  water  in  a  room  and  it  will  absorb 
all  the  impurities  in  a  few  hours.  It  will  purify  the  room  but  the 
water  will  be  entirely  unfit  for  use. 

To  set  colors  in  wash  goods  soak  before  washing  in  1  T  ox- 
gall to  1  gal.  of  water. 

Salt  should  always  be  eaten  with  nuts  to  aid  digestion. 

A  fireless  cooker  and  a  steam  cooker  are  great  accessories  to 
the  kitchen  equipment.  A  good  steam  cooker  will  cook  6  dif- 
ferent things  at  once  on  one  gas  burner  and  no  mixing  of  flavor. 

Vinegar  added  to  rhubarb  jam  gives  it  a  spicy  flavor. 

Ink  from  carpets  may  be  removed  by  wetting  in  milk  after 
all  has  been  taken  up  by  blotting  paper  that  is  possible. 

Suit  cases  that  look  dingy  may  be  brightened  by  rubbing 
with  oil. 

Brooms  dipped  for  2  minutes  in  boiling  soap  suds  once  a 
week  and  then  plunged  in  cold  water  last  longer  and  are  tougher. 

Marble  statuary  may  be  washed  with  soft  water  and  ivory 
soap,  rinsed  with  clear  water  and  dried  with  a  soft  cloth. 

One  T  grated  horseradish  in  a  pan  of  milk  will  keep  it  sweet 
longer. 

Never  put  cake  in  the  refrigerator,  it  makes  it  tough. 

Angel  Food  cake  is  the  only  cake  improved  by  keeping  in 
refrigerator,  in  oil  paper. 

A  heated  knife  will  cut  warm  bread  or  cake  without  crumbl- 
ing. 

In  making  ginger  cookies  try  mixing  batter  with  cold  coffee 
instead  of  water. 

If  cream  does  not  whip  try  adding  2  drops  of  lemon  juice 
and  whip  again. 

In  making  cake  if  oven  gets  too  hot  set  a  pan  of  cold  water 
in  it. 

To  get  the  meats  of  pecan  nuts  whole  soak  the  pecans  over 
night  in  water,  next  morning  crack  them  on  the  end.  The  meat 
will  come  out  without  breaking. 

A  slice  of  lemon  skin  eaten  with  sugar  or  salt  will  kill  the 
odor  of  onion  on  the  breath. 

An  egg  well  beaten  added  to  rhubarb  pies,  will  thicken  the 
rhubarb  and  improve  the  taste. 

To  get  rid  of  red  ants  wash  the  shelves  clean  and  while  damp 
rub  fine  salt  on  them  quite  thickly.  Let  it  remain  on  for  a  time 
and  the  ants  will  disappear. 

A  glass  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water  in  which  salt  fish  is 
soaking  will  draw  out  most  of  the  salt. 


-356— 


In  mixing  liquids  with  solids  add  the  liquid  to  the  solid  by 
degrees.    They  will  blend  more  readily. 

To  prevent  milk  or  cream  from  curdling  when  used  in  com- 
bination with  tomato,  add  a  bit  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  before 
mixing. 

If  you  use  too  much  salt  by  mistake  add  a  trifle  of  sugar  or 
of  vinegar,  according  to  dish.    This  will  counteract  the  salty  taste. 

Melons  may  be  chilled  in  midsummer  by  wrapping  them 
about  with  a  burlap  sack,  saturating  this  with  water  and  keep- 
ing it  wet  and  placing  it  in  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun  for  a  time. 
Evaporation  does  the  work. 

Before  tacking  down  linoleum,  let  it  lie  in  place  and  be 
walked  on  a  few  days.    This  will  make  it  be  perfectly  smooth. 

Milk  or  cream  which  is  just  turning  sour  may  be  sweetened 
with  a  little  soda  stirred  into  it. 

Soap  should  be  unrapped  and  put  in  a  dry  place  to  harden 
and  it  will  last  longer. 

Lemon  juice  and  salt  will  remove  iron  rust.  Put  on  the 
garment  and  place  in  hot  sun.  Mildew  also  can  be  removed  in 
this  way. 

Kerosene  will  soften  leather. 

Melted  paraffine  poured  on  top  of  the  jelly  prevents  mold. 

Flowers  will  keep  fresh  24  hours  by  wetting  and  covering 
with  paper  to  keep  out  air,  place  in  cool  place. 

Nickel  may  be  cleaned  with  kerosene  and  whiting. 

Bitter  butter  is  the  result  of  cream  standing  too  long. 

Paint  on  glass  may  be  removed  with  strong  hot  vinegar. 

Drain  pipes  should  have  lime  water  or  lye  water  poured 
into  them  occasionally. 

Sand  put  in  bottles  with  soap  suds  and  shaken  will  clean 
them. 

Glass  measuring  cup  is  best,  for  you  can  see  through  ex- 
actly. 

Do  not  salt  milk  until  it  boils  or  it  may  curdle. 

Use  a  fork  in  mixing  flour  and  milk  for  a  thickening,  also 
a  pinch  of  salt  helps  to  dissolve  lumps. 

PRESERVING  OLIVES 

After  opening  a  bottle  of  olives,  if  the  remainder  are  not 
required  for  immediate  use,  pour  off  the  liquid  and  cover  with 
olive  oil.  This  will  keep  the  olives  good  and  fresh  for  several 
weeks. 

SUNKIST  ORANGES 

Soak  oranges  in  boiled  water  1  hour.  The  skin  will  come  off 
easily,  and  the  pulp  will  be  sweeter — serve  cold.  Grapefruit  may 
be  done  the  same  way. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  FEATHERS 
1  pt.  gasoline  1  C  corn  starch 

Wash  feathers;  then  stroke  until  dry. 


-357— 


TO  TAKE  STAINS  OUT  OF  WHITE  TAFFETA 

Sponge  first  with  alcohol  and  warm  water  to  remove  the 
fatty  particles.  Rub  dry  with  soft  linen  and  sponge  with  perox- 
ide of  hydrogen  to  bleach  the  stain.  Should  a  trace  remain,  rub 
flour  well  into  the  spot.    Leave  for  a  day  and  brush. 

FURNITURE  OIL  AND  CLEANER 

1  qt.  soft  water  1  qt.  olive  oil  or  raw  oil 

1  qt.  cider  vinegar  1  qt.  alcohol 

TO  TAKE  WHITE  SPOTS  FROM  POLISHED  WOOD 

Rub  with  the  meat  of  English  walnuts. 
Rub  with  sweet  oil  and  camphor. 
Rub  with  essence  of  or  oil  of  peppermint. 
If  cookies  stick,  put  sugar  on  the  board. 

TO  FRY  OYSTERS 
Fry  in  half  lard  and  half  butter. 

TO  REMOVE  WHITE  SPOTS  FROM  WOOD 

1  oz.  Wood  Alcohol  1  oz.  Banana  Oil 

Rub  quickly  with  the  grain  of  the  wood. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

SUGAR  AND  FRUIT 

2  Tablespoons 1  oz. 

2  Level  coffee  cups  of  granulated .1  lb. 

2  Level  coffee  cups  of  powdered 1  lb. 

2  Cups  of  raisins : 1  lb. 

FLOUR  AND  MEAL 

3yo  Cupfuls  corn  meal  1  lb. 

2  Cupfuls  unsifted  or  1  qt.  sifted  flour 1  lb. 

BUTTER  AND  EGGS 

1  Tablespoonful  soft  butter  _ 1  oz. 

2  Teacups  packed  soft  butter ,..1  lb. 

1V2  Cups  firm  butter  1  lb. 

8  Large  or  10  medium  sized  eggs  j 1  lb. 

MEASURING  HINTS 

A  cup  of  liquid  means  all  the  cup  will  hold. 
A  spoonful  of  liquid  is  all  a  spoon  will  hold. 
Salt,  flour,  seasonings,  spices,  butter  and  all  solids  are  meas- 
ured level. 


-358- 


To  measure  a  level  spoonful,  dip  the  spoon  in  dry  material 
taking  up  a  heaping  spoonful,  then  level  it  off  even  with  the  edge 
of  the  spoon  with  a  knife- 
To  measure  a  part  of  a  spoonful,  cut  lengthwise  of  spoon  for 
the  half,  and  crosswise  for  quarters. 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  should  be  measured  be- 
fore melting. 

A  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  should  be  measured  after 
melting. 

Measure  a  cupful  of  cream  whipped  before  it  is  whipped. 

Measure  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream  after  it  is  whipped. 

Always  sift  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  soda  before 
measuring. 

TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS 

2  rounding  or  4  even  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  to  1  qt. 
of  flour. 

1  t  of  flavoring  extract  to  1  qt.  of  custard. 

1  t  of  soda  to  1  pt.  sour  milk. 

1  t  mixed  herbs  to  1  qt.  soup  stock. 

1  t  soda  to  1  C  molasses. 

i/i  t  extract  of  beef  to  1  C  hot  water. 

1  t  salt  to  1  qt.  of  soup  stock  or  2  quarts  of  flour. 

1  T  chopped  vegetables  each  to  1  qt.  soup  stock. 

%  t  soda  to  pt.  buttermilk  1  day  old. 

%  t  soda  to  pt.  buttermilk  2  days  old. 

1  t  soda  to  pt.  buttermilk  3  days  old. 

BAKING  POWDER  MIXTURES  (Plus  Variations) 


1:1 

(Pour  Batter) 

1 :2 
(Drop  Batter) 

(Muffins) 

1:3 

(Soft  Dough) 

1:4 
(Hard  Dough) 

(Griddle  Cakes) 

(Biscuits) 

(Rolled  Cookies) 

Liquid 

1  Cup 

1  Cup 

1  Cup 

1  Cup 

Flour 

1  Cup 

2  Cups 

3  Cups 

4  Cups 

Leavening  a 

gent  1%  t  B.  P. 

3  t  B.  P. 

4%  t  B.  P. 

6  t  B.  P. 

Salt 

Vit 

%  t 

%  t 

1  t 

Stiffening 

1  egg 

2  eggs 

4  eggs 

Shortening 

1-2  T 

2  T 

6T 

1  Cup 

Sweetening 

? 

1  T 

2  t  (?) 

1%  C  (?) 

Flavoring — 

N.  B. — Nuts,  dates,  currants,  raisins,  etc.,  are  usually  used 
rather  than  flavoring. 


-359- 


QUANTITIES  FOR  SERVING 
Chicken  Salad — A  4  lb.  chicken  to  a  qt.  of  salad. 
10  lbs.  of  chicken  serve  25  people. 
Jelly  Molds — 1  qt.  to  8  people. 
Boullion — 1  qt.  to  8  people. 
Ice  Cream,  Mousse — 1  qt.  to  8  people. 
Lemonade  or  Fruit  Punch — 10  qts.  to  50  people. 
Tea — 1  gal.  to  50  people. 
Coffee — 32  cups  to  a  gallon. 

Chocolate — 27  cups  to  a  gallon,  use  half  lb.  chocolate. 
Whipped  Cream — 1  qt.  will  make  25  spoonsful. 
Loaf  Sugar — 1  lb.  to  25  people. 
Sugar  for  Berries — 1  lb.  for  25  people. 
Wafers — 3  boxes  to  50  people. 
Large  cake  cuts  in  24  small  slices. 
Bonbons — 1  lb.  serves  16  people. 
Salted  Nuts— iy2  lbs.  for  25  people. 
Tibals  and  Patties — 1  qt.  makes  25. 
Croquetts — 1%  qts.  make  25. 
Potato  Chips — 2  lbs.  serve  25. 
Oysters — 4-10  for  1  person. 
Welsh  Rarebit — 3  lbs.  of  cheese  for  15. 
Chicken  or  Turkey  Dressed — 25  lbs.  for  48  people. 
Two  whole  sandwiches  serve  3  people. 
24  sandwiches  to  a  loaf. 
1  lb.  butter  to  2  loaves. 
1  C  paste  and  butter  to  1  loaf. 
1  pt.  other  fillings  to  1  loaf. 

LAWN  SUGGESTIONS 

A  bushel  of  lawn  grass  weighs  about  20  lbs. 

A  qt.  of  seeds  is  sufficent  to  cover  300  square  feet — 15  by 
20  feet. 

Grass  seed  germinate  in  from  14  to  18  days. 

Do  not  sow  grass  seed  during  hot,  dry  weather,  particularly 
in  July  and  August. 

Lawns  that  are  frequently  watered  need  more  fertilizer  than 
those  that  are  not,  as  the  water  washes  away  much  plant  food. 


-360- 


INDEX 

Page 
Abbreviations 7 

Bread 8-  21 

Cakes 229-243 

Candy 335-339 

Cereals 281-288 

Cheese .307-313 

Conserves ..273-279 

Cookies 251-261 

Desserts 163-188 

Desserts,  Frozen  _ 191-207 

Drinks  327-333 

Eggs 291-299 

Fish   67-  79 

Frostings .......245-^49 

Introduction : 6 

Meats 81-104 

Meat  Sauces , 107-114 

Omelets 300-304 

Pickles -- 263-270 

Pies  209-227 

Puddings ......141-161 

Recipes  by  Famous  Women.. 341-351 

Salads 24-  43 

Salad  Dressing  _ 45-  50 

Sauces ...141-161 

Sandwiches  ..-. 315-325 

Soup 53-  64 

Things  You  Should  Know 352-360 

Vegetables 117-139 


c 


8  9J 


#' 


\^&\/  V*^r,>*°% 


^       •  o  ¥  °  Av  a 

°-     ^.-J^V   yv^SL->.    ^sSferX     c° 


;«  /% 


:» 


V  * 


«!  **^ 


5*    w    : 


% 

^^      /Jit 


^       ^ 


-       *G       ...       °* 


1  "T-S 


vv 


;vtf 


«.    * 


*      o 


*         0 

■  / 


^-V"V 


V1  .»»M/,    o^, 


W 
^ 


\ 


»o$     I 

9 


O  j* 

of 


v   v.    • 


^/ 


\ 


v     ■%,   V 


V 


,*      *> 
^ 


»       o  v 


^°% 


.Ov        .  »  *  »         "^- 


J.0**. 


o       ,0' 


^^ 


y    ^  •; 


f>         * 


%. 


& 


A^        --       <** 


it       ^4 


.0 


^0-^ 


rAtf 


/         o. 


a? 


}      f^    Y^M§z-     jfr°*      -j 


^  *>zrr-',\** 


>     ^ 


*0*^ 


5? 


i*     A 


<*    *'^ 


^  • 


•'  ■?%  '• 


*♦     A 


.^«K.%V  ^fffr**,  AjSX?***  ^sM&X. 


^  .- 


-*^r*      «/ 


#^% 


V        A* 


%,     ■#+jl&&,%     J'.sJ&ttS..      ffi+JsMzS*     Ssi 


'A^ 


'0  V 


9    -f%,    V 


&    ^       •> 


^  ;  W   :^ 


'^ 


rssry  v^»^  v^V  vstf-V' 

°°   /^'S&\    ^>£ferS   s*.<imk\    *°*.£ 


V  .r"4^  V 


V^-'V     V'-^'V     'V^'V 
dfefe,  \,/  .»«£.  ■  *.  ,* 


• » *     A 


"^»'  • 


</» 


>    ^ 


^  %. 


>*■«!*;?.. 


^.      9'1#     *V 


v^  .•L^L'*    <5 


*  x^'>^«^/^>rvaK-.^  .#' . 


♦      aV    <^     •■» 


V^1 


^6# 


.« 


Vv   .» 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC.        |S| 

#JAN  89 
N.  MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA  46962 


:<■  >^ 


>*  .i-, 


*         A><^ 


•    # 


\ 


*o  9" 


,*  * 


'0-  ^.^ 


b    -^ 


