TX 

7/5" 

SciRR 
Desk 


Class.  TXX, 

Book  \4  ?6> 

GopyrightN?.  

COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


□  □ 


□  □ 
S 


Tried  Receipts 
of  Pasadena 

Compiled  for  the  benefit  of 

The  William  A.  Scripps  Home  for  Aged  People 
The  Pasadena  Children's  Training  Society 
The  Pasadena  Charitable  League 
The  Pasadena  Day  Nursery 


Here's  to  the  women,  who  know  how  to  cook; 
Bless  their  dear  hearts,  they  have  written  this  book. 
Here's  to  the  men  who  have  sent  their  pet  dishes 
From  the  camp  and  the  club,  with  their  very  best  wishes 
Here's  to  us  all,  when  we  sit  down  to  eat 
May  this  spirit  of  comradeship  season  our  meat. 


We  wish  to  acknowledge  the  financial  aid  received  and  also  the 
courtesy  of  the  business  men  and  firms  who  have  purchased  advertising 
space  ::  ::  ::  ::  ::  :;  :: 


□ 


Copyrighted  by  Maud  Mitchell  Honberger 
1914 


\ 


To  California: 

Where  earth  is  here  so  kind,  that 
Just  tickle  her  with  a  hoe  and  she  laughs 
with  a  harvest. 

— Jarrod. 

DEC  -7  J  9 14 

□ 


©CI.A391252 


H.  G.  CHAFFEE  CO 


WHERE  CASH  BEATS  CREDIT 

The  Home  of  Ragged  Robin  Products 

We  have  striven  for  years  to  accomplish  two  things: 

FIRST 

To  reduce  the  high  cost  of  living  in  Pasadena,  and  judging  from  the 
way  our  stores  are  patronized  and  from  the  fact  that  we  have  reduced  the 
price  on  over  two  hundred  articles  in  the  past  sixty  days,  we  think  we 
have  succeeded. 

SECOND 

We  have  ever  sought  to  lift  the  quality  of  our  goods.  That  the  quality 
of  our  Ragged  Robin  Goods  is  the  highest  is  beyond  question. 

Some  of  our  goods  packed  under  this  label  include  Butter,  Flour,  Spices, 
Extracts  and  Olive  Oil. 

If  you  realize  how  easy  it  is  to  make  Mayonnaise  with  our  RAGGED 
ROBIN  OLIVE  OIL  you  would  all  be  using  it  and  telling  your  friends. 

Then  if  you  do  not  care  to  make  your  own  Mayonnaise  we  are  the 
Pasadena  Agents  of  one  of  the  best  Salad  Dressing  on  the  market. 


LA  HERBERT  SALAD  DRESSING  is  the  last  word  in  Salad  Dressing 


TO  BE  HAD  AT  ALL  THE  CHAFFEE  STORES 


Torrance  Marshall  and  Co. 

==========  bonds  ===== — = 

111-113  West  Fourth  St. 
LOS     AN  GELES 


MOTOR POWER 


— draws  it  forward,  gives  it  momentum,  success 

THE  STAR'S  CIRCULATION 

is  maintained  by  giving  its  readers  the  best 
newspaper  it  is  possible  to  produce.  IT  TS 
READ  FOR  ITS  VALUE  AS  A  NEWS- 
PAPER in  more  than 


9000  PASADENA  HOMES 


every  evening. 

The  STAR'S  advertising  is  a  strong  selling 
force.  It  is  read  in  homes  where  more  than 
90  per  cent  of  Pasadena  buying  is  done. 


WHAT  THE  MOTOR 
IS  TO  THE  MACHINE 


ADVERTISING 
IS  TO  BUSINESS 


ADVERTISE  IN  the  STAR 


BLENDERS  and  ROASTERS 

*>\  OF 

^  FINE  COFFEES 


If  you  are  not  getting  full  enjoyment  out 
of  your  Coffee  —  we  suggest  you  sample 


SMITH'S  "WESCO"  BLEND    -    28c.  lb. ,  2  lbs.  55c. 


A  fine  full  rich  bodied  Coffee  of  inviting  aroma 


ROASTED  FRESH  DAILY 


Walter  E.  Smith  Co.,  Grocers 


212-218  So.  Spring  St. 
LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


m  m 


COMPLIMENTS 

of  the 

PASADENA  DAILY  NEWS 


SMART  SUITS  ATTRACTIVE  WRAPS 

DAINTY  DRESSES    MOTOR  COATS 
BOUDOIR  WEAR 


Individuality,  distinction  and  real 
style  are  incorporated  in  every 
offering 

You  will  always  find  something 
new  at  prices  that  will  appeal 


T.  W.  Mather  Co. 

Pasadena 


El  0  S 


Home 

Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co. 

of  PASADENA 

LOCAL  and  LONG  DISTANCE  CONNECTIONS 
WITH  ALL  TELEPHONES  ON  THE  PACIFIC  COAST 


Office:    68  North  Raymond  Ave. 


Pasadena,  Cal. 


BOOKS 
STATIONERY 
PICTURE  FRAMING 


190  E.  Colorado  St. 

a  a 


gfnj  tfrtB  Srgflaing  on  litm 


Take  one  HART-SCHAFFNER  &  MARX 
Suit  — One  HOTALING  $3.00  Hat  — One 
CHENEY  Cravat  — add  Collars,  Shirts,  etc. 
to  Suit. 

—  Ready  to  Serve  Now. 

H.  C.  HOTALING  &  CO.       -     -       Mens  Outfitters 

—  m  b 

Peaches  and  Cream    Berries  and  Cream    Turkey  and  Sauce 
Eggs  and  Butter     Fruits  and  Vegetables 

Many  Other  Appetizing  Foods  are  Produced  on  Land  Sold  by  the 

Farm  Lands  Investment  Co. 

715  MARSH -STRONG  BUILDING  LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 

OFFICERS: 

H.  G.  CATTELL,  PRES.     JAMES  CLARKE,  Vice-Pres.     J  H.  DICKEY,  SECY.     PAUL  S.  HONBERGER.  TREAS. 

DIRECTORS: 

H.  G.  CATTELL  JAMES  CLARKE  PAUL  S    HONBERGER  J.  C.  COY  J.  A.  HORRELL 

L.  A.'BOADWAY  W.  C.  CROWELL  CHARLES  HUGHES  L.  A.  STONE 


m  e 


The  Magic  Electric  Suction  Cleaner 

OUTWORKS  OUTWEARS 

EXCELS  ALL  OTHERS 

FOR  SALE  BY 

A.    P.    GAYLORD,  Electrical  Contractor 

F.  O.  823  32  WEST  COLORADO  STREET 


TIRES- VULCANIZING 

AUTO  SUPPLIES 

To  Keep  Business  in  Pasadena,  it  is  necessary  to  meet  out  of 
town  competition  in  Price,  Quality  and  Service.     This  we  do. 


Pasadena  Vulcanizing  Works 


HOME 
F.  0.  3240 


S  H 


A  Recipe  for 

Good  Dressing — 

BRENWOOD  CLOTHES 

BRENNER  &  WOOD 

Responsible  for  'em. 

37  N.  RAYMOND  PASADENA 

-  □  a 

DRUGS  PRESCRIPTIONS 

CALIFORNIA  ORANGE  FLOWER  COLOGNE 
THE  BREATH  OF  THE  BLOSSOM 

The  Modern  Pharmacy 

M.  P.  GREEN      E.  W.  SALSBURY 
44  EAST  COLORADO  ST.  PASADENA,  CAL. 

Phone  Colorado  102 

TOILET  ARTICLES  RUBBER  GOODS 

================^         H  S  ================== 

MORTGAGE  LOANS  INSURANCE 


H.  GAUME 

REAL  ESTATE 


39  S.  RAYMOND  AVENUE 


PASADENA,  CAL. 


SKILLEN  &  SKILLEN 

Confectionery  and  Bakery 


Our  Candies  are  the  Purest  and  Best 

Try  Our  Popular  Luncheon  and  Dinners  Now  Being  Served  Daily 

B  E 

E   F  GOCKLEY  J-  N-  MARCH 

Colorado  1977  Colorado  645 

GOCKLEY  &  MARCH 

PLUMBING 

GAS  FITTING 

48  W.  COLORADO  ST. 

PHONE  COLORADO  377  PASADENA,  CAL. 


B  B 


Phones  484 


A.  C.  Vroman 

BOOKS  -  STATIONERY 

KODAKS,  PHOTO  SUPPLIES 

60  East  Colorado  Street  Pasadena,  Cal. 

«— ^=^=— — —  b  a 


Fair  Oaks  270 


Yosemite  Laundry  Co. 

Our  Motto:    "High  Class  Work" 


Cor.  Raymond  and  Ritzman 


Relishes 


"We  picture  to  ourselves  the  things  we  like  and  then  we  build 
it  up." 

LOBSTER  COCKTAIL 

Allow  cup  lobster  meat,  cut  in  pieces,  for  each  cocktail, 
and  season  with  two  tablespoons,  each,  tomato  catsup  and  sherry- 
wine,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  6  drops  tobasco  sauce,  Vk  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  chives,  and  salt  to  taste.  Chill  thoroughly  and 
serve  in  cocktail  glasses.  Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 
TOMATO  AND  CAVIAR  RELISH 
Thin  slice  toast  cut  round,  thin  slice  tomato  on  top  of  slice 
of  toast;  caviar  spread  on  top  of  tomato,  yolk  of  egg  hard  boiled 
put  through  ricer  on  top  of  caviar,  lemon  juice  squeezed  on  top; 
piece  of  parsley  in  center.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Kingsbury. 

STUFFED  EGG  APPETIZER 
Stuff  a  hard  boiled  egg  in  the  usual  way ;  place  this  on  a  round 
of  fresh,  soft  toast,  and  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  which  has  been 
thinned  with  cream  and  to  which  has  been  added  either  lobster  or 
crab  meat  minced.    Garnish  with  shredded  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Edward  F.  Robbins. 
CANAPE  OF  CAVIAR  AND  TOMATO 
Make  rounds  of  slices  of  toast;  butter  thin  and  while  hot  lay 
on  each  a  slice  of  tomato  one-half  inch  thick.  Before  putting  the 
tomato  on  the  toast  scrape  out  carefully  all  the  soft  part  of  the 
tomato,  leaving  thus  a  cavity  between  each  section.  Into  these 
cavities  put  a  mixture  of  caviar,  cooked  egg  yolk,  lemon  juice  and 
cayenne.  Chop  the  whites  very  fine  and  put  it  in  a  mound  in  the 
center  of  tomato  and  in  center  of  mound  put  a  flower  or  sprig  of 
parsley.    Instead  of  caviar,  anchovy  may  be  used. 

Miss  Mary  S.  Wylie. 
SARDINE  CANAPE 
Cut  brown  bread  in  circles  and  spread  with  butter,  and  heat 
in  the  oven.  Pound  sardines  to  a  paste ;  add  an  equal  amount  of 
finely  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  season  with  lemon  juice  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  spread  on  bread.  Garnish  each  canape  in  the 
center  with  a  circle  of  hard  boiled  white  of  egg,  capped  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  hard-boiled  yolk  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 
TOMATO  COCKTAIL 
Select  small  smooth  tomatoes.  Peel  and  chill  them.  When 
about  ready  to  serve,  cut  them  in  quarters  through  the  stem  and 
blossom  ends,  then  cut  these  quarters  in  halves  or  thirds ;  arrange 
them  on  crisp  lettuce  hearts  on  a  plate  around  a  tall-stemmed 
glass ;  rub  a  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic  cut  in  halves ;  add  three 
tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  half 
a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  two  or  three  drops  of 
tabasco  sauce,  or  one  quarter  teaspoon  of  paprika.  Mix  and  turn 
a  little  into  each  glass.  The  pieces  of  tomato  and  the  lettuce  hearts 
are  to  be  dipped  into  the  sauce,  and  eaten  with  an  oyster  fork. 

Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Rhodes. 

11 


John  McDonald 


L.  A.  Boadway 


C.  U.  Bunnell 


John  McDonald  Co. 

Established  1886 

Investments 
Real  Estate 
Insurance 

Pasadena,  Cal. 
B  H  = 

TOMATO  AND  SARDINE  RELISH 

Cut  bread  in  round  slices,  fry  in  butter  on  both  sides,  take 
small  ripe  tomatoes,  peel,  cut  in  slices  ^4  mcn  thick  (salted),  lay 
on  toast ;  put  two  sardines  on  tomato.  Place  around  the  edge 
of  toast  a  border  of  chopped  white  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  teaspoon 
of  mayonnaise  over  the  top  of  relish,  and  a  little  catsup  over 
mayonnaise.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  Bertha  L.  Turner,  Cateress. 

OLIVE  AND  WALNUT  RELISH 

Cut  circular  slice  of  bread  and  butter.  Chop  an  equal 
amount  of  olives  and  walnuts,  spread  on  bread  and  bake  about 
half  an  hour.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Torrance. 

FIG  AND  CREAM  CHEESE  ENTREE 

Beat  cup  whipping  cream  until  firm,  and  gradually  fold 
in  two  Neufchatel  cheeses  which  have  been  softened  with  a  silver 
fork.  Place  two  narrow  strips  of  white  muslin  over  the  bottom 
and  up  the  sides  of  tin  moulds  and  press  enough  cheese  into  each 
for  one  serving.  Spread  paper  over  each  mold  and  pack  in  an 
ice  cream  mold  and  surround  with  equal  measures  of  ice  and  salt. 
Let  stand  two  hours,  and  unmold  on  serving  plates.  Set  a  pre- 
served skinless  fig,  flavored  with  sherry  if  desired,  above  each 
serving  of  cheese.    Pour  over  a  little  syrup  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Durand. 
BACON  AND  TOMATO  RELISH 

Cut  bread  in  circular  shape.  Butter  and  spread  with  grated 
cheese.  Put  thick  slice  of  tomato  (unpeeled)  on  top.  Season  to 
taste,  then  add  slice  of  raw  bacon  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Serve 
hot.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Torrance. 

PENELOPE'S  SPECIAL 

Boil  three  eggs  hard;  when  cold  cut  in  half  and  remove  yolks. 
Mix  yolks  with  3  drops  of  onion  juice,  3  tablespoons  of  thick 
mayonnaise  dressing,  1-3  teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill  the  whites  of  eggs  with  fresh  caviar. 
Cut  six  slices  of  bread  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Butter  and  toast 
on  one  side,  spread  toast  with  the  yolk  mixture,  put  whites  in 
the  center  of  toast,  garnish  with  1  small  green  onion,  parsley,  1 
radish  and  slice  of  lemon.     Miss  Florence  P.  Weimer,  Cateress. 

12 


Soups 

'/Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite — and  health  on  both." 

MRS.  VISSCHER'S  CLEAR  SOUP 

Two  pounds  of  round  steak,  6  eggs,  1  bay  leaf.  Chop  the  meat 
fine  without  any  fat  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  piece  of  butter.  Brown 
the  meat  in  the  butter  and  add  one-half  grated  onion.  Then  beat 
the  six  eggs  and  add  to  the  meat,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  the 
meat  is  in  balls  add  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Cook  very  slowly  a 
whole  day.   Strain  and  serve  in  cups  with  a  thin  slice  of  lemon. 

Miss  Henrietta  Visscher. 

SOUP  STOCK 

One  good  beef  soup  bone,  1  knuckle  of  veal.  Wash  well  and 
put  in  covered  soup  kettle  with  plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover.  Let 
heat  slowly.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  skim  and  add  salt,  pepper,  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  3  carrots,  1  or  2  turnips,  parsley,  3  or  4  onions, 
celery,  and  a  bay  leaf.  Let  simmer  slowly  for  six  hours  or  more. 
Strain  into  large  bowl  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  in  the  morning  when 
cool,  remove  fat  and  put  in  jars  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Z.  L.  Moody,  Salem,  Ore. 

EGG  BALLS  TO  DROP  IN  CLEAR  SOUP 

Boil  four  eggs  20  minutes;  put  in  cold  water;  when  cool,  put 
the  yolks  in  a  bowl  and  rub  them  to  a  paste.  Season  with  1  salt 
spoon  of  salt,  ^  of  a  salt  spoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  melted 
butter,  a  few  cracker  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  the  white  of  1  egg, 
using  enough  to  shape  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  marble.  Roll 
in  flour  and  fry  in  lard.  Roll  on  cloth  to  absorb  grease.  These 
may  be  made  in  morning,  add  to  soup  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  G.  E.  Waldo. 

MEAT  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP 

One-half  pound  minced  cooked  meat,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  chopped 
celery  and  green  pepper.  Roll  out  with  a  spoon,  otherwise  they 
will  be  heavy.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

ROYAL  CUSTARD 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  }i  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  slight  grating  of  nut- 
meg, y2  cup  consomme,  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Beat  eggs  slightly, 
add  consomme  and  seasonings.  Pour  into  a  small  tin  dish,  place 
in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  set ;  cool,  remove  from  tin  and 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  serve  in  consomme. 

Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

CLEAR  TOMATO  SOUP 

Wash,  peel,  cut  up  and  cook  sufficient  tomatoes  to  give  one 
quart  of  thin  stew  when  strained  (or  take  one  large  can).  Add  to 
this  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dozen  peppercorns, 
4  cloves,  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  onion  and  parsley.  Simmer 
all  for  twenty  minutes.  Mix  together  2  tablespoons  each  of  soft 
butter  and  cornstarch ;  dilute  this  paste  with  a  little  of  the  hot  soup, 
add  to  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  and  stir  till  smoothly  thickened 

13 


Quality  First  Consideration 


For  Best  Results  you  need  fine  ingredients. 
You  will  always  find  the  quality  kind  — the 
tested  and  proven  brands  of  everything  the 
cook  needs  at  our  store.  And  then  the  prices 
are  right,  with  an  up-to-date  Free  Delivery 
at  your  service.        :        :        :        :  : 


CHARLES  W  WOODBURY 

FRUITS  and  GROCERIES 

M  E.  Colorado  Street,  PASADENA 

ED  B 

and  clear.  Taste  to  see  that  it  is  properly  seasoned,  rub  through  a 
sieve  and  reheat.  In  serving  drop  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley  in 
each  plate ;  this  adds  a  contrast  in  color. 

Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

YELLOW  SOUP 

Heat  good  rich  soup  stock  and  dissolve  in  it  enough  minute 
tapioca  or  sago  to  thicken  slightly.  Add  cream  and  when  ready 
to  serve  pour  this  upon  well  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Serve  in  hot 
dishes.  This  is  enough  for  six  people.  Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

QUEEN  VICTORIA  SOUP 
Three  pounds  veal,  covered  with  three  quarts  cold  water.  Cook 
until  reduced  to  three  pints  of  stock.  One-half  pound  pearl  barley. 
Simmer  in  the  stock  one  and  one-half  hours.  Take  from  the  stock 
two-thirds  of  the  barley,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the 
stock ;  y2  pint  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.   Serve  in  cups. 

Mrs.  Edward  R.  Robbins. 

CREOLE  GUMBO 

Before  beginning  the  gumbo,  have  incredients  all  prepared. 
One  good-sized  onion,  and  bell  pepper  chopped  fine;  }4  pound  of 
veal  and  same  of  ham  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  and  a  cupful  of 
canned  tomatoes. 

For  seasoning:  Salt  to  taste,  black  pepper  and  a  very  little 
cayenne,  celery  salt  and  mustard  seed,  paprika,  a  teaspoon  of  each 
and  a  tablespoon-of  kitchen  bouquet. 

14 


Now  put  in  a  deep  sauce  pan  (the  Creoles  use  a  porcelain  lined 
kettle)  a  tablespoon  of  lard  and  fry  the  onion  and  green  pepper  a 
little  before  adding  the  veal  and  ham.  After  this  has  fried  some, 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  whole  to  give  a  good  brown,  stirring 
constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  There  is  less  danger  of  scorching 
if  flour  is  omitted.  Now  add  tomatoes,  stir  this  well,  then  put  in 
the  okra,  the  fresh,  if  in  season,  cut  in  thin  rings  or  else  a  large  can 
of  Mcllhenny's  okra,  which  is  very  tender.  It  is  well  to  empty 
the  can,  liquor  and  all,  into  a  chopping  bowl  and  cut  up  the  okra. 
Put  this  into  the  saucepan  with  the  other  ingredients,  add  the 
seasoning  and  let  it  cook  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Then  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  all  come  to  a  good 
boil.  Turn  the  fire  low,  cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and  let  the 
gumbo  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  occasionally.  Ten 
minutes  before  serving  add  a  can  of  shrimp  and  a  small  can  of 
oysters.  Serve  with  a  large  spoon  of  boiled  rice  in  each  soup  plate. 
A  chicken  cut  up  and  fried  with  the  onion  and  bell  pepper  may  be 
substituted  for  the  veal  and  shrimp.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Wood. 

ARTICHOKE  BUTTON  AND  CAVIAR 

Take  a  small  round  of  bread  fried  in  butter  on  both  sides; 
spread  the  mayonnaise.  Fill  the  buttons  with  caviar ;  place  m 
center  of  toast,  border  with  chopped  white  of  hard  boiled  egg. 
Put  a  small  bit  of  mayonnaise  in  center  of  caviar ;  add  a  small  spray 
of  parsley,  serve  with  slice  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  Bertha  L.  Turner,  Cateress. 

PUR£E  OF  POTATO 

Boil  and  mash  in  two  quarts  of  water,  4  large  potatoes,  1  small 
onion,  2  stalks  celery  and  sprig  of  parsley.  When  done,  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Return  to  fire,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  2 
large  tablespoons  butter  rubbed  into  a  dessert  spoon  of  flour.  Boil 
up  once  and  pour  into  a  tureen  over  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Arthur  R.  Dodworth. 
CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP  , 

Blend  one  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one  of  flour  and  add  slowly 
two  cups  of  cold  milk.  Stir  until  all  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Add 
two  cups  of  spinach  pulp.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  C.  S.  Mitchell. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 

One  cup  dried  split  peas,  2^  quarts  cold  water,  1  pint  milk 
or  part  cream,  Yi  onion,  3  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
\y2  teaspoons  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  2  inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Pick  over  peas  and  soak  over  night,  drain,  add  cold  water,  pork 
and  onion.  Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  soft.  Run  through 
a  sieve.  Add  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  salt  and  pepper. 
Dilute  with  milk,  adding  more  if  necessary. 

Miss  Edith  Mallory. 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  with  a  pinch  of  soda,  until  soft. 
Strain  and  add  one  pint  of  rich  soup  stock.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten  with  half  a  cup  of  cream,  a  pinch 
of  cloves,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Do  not  let  boil  after  adding 
the  cream.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

15 


James  Jones  Company 

Brass  Works 

Brass  Goods  for  Water,  Gas  and  Steam 
Bronze  Mausoleum  Doors 

201  Leroy  Street  Los  Angeles,  Gal. 

B  B 

OATMEAL  SOUP 

One  can  tomatoes,  3  pints  water,  2  onions,  celery,  parsley,  or 
both,  24  cup  oatmeal.  Cook  yA  hour.  Just  before  taking  up  put  in 
54  teaspoon  soda,  then  strain,  using  strainer  fine  enough  to  stop 
seeds.  Set  on  the  fire  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  very  little 
sugar,  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Stir  soup  while  cooking,  as  the 
oatmeal  lumps  easily.  Mrs.  Edward  M.  Mackey. 

MINCED  CLAM  SOUP 

Fry  three  slices  salt  pork  in  kettle,  add  3  medium-sized  potatoes 
cut  in  small  pieces,  2  small  onions  sliced,  or  chop  potatoes  and 
onions  very  fine.  Add  about  1  quart  of  water  and  cook  until  done 
(about  1  hour).  Thicken  a  little  with  2  tablespoons  flour  and  1 
tablespoon  butter  stirred  together.  Just  before  taking  from  fire 
add  contents  of  one  small  can  of  minced  clams. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Boadway. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP 

One  pint  black  beans,  soaked  one  night  in  three  quarts  of  water. 
In  the  morning  pour  ofif  this  water,  and  add  3  quarts  of  fresh  water. 
Boil  gently  6  hours.  When  done  there  should  be  1  quart.  Add  a 
quart  of  stock,  6  whole  cloves,  6  whole  allspice,  a  small  piece  of 
mace,  small  piece  of  cinnamon  stick,  stalk  of  celery,  bouquet  of 
sweet  herbs,  1  good-sized  onion,  small  slice  each  of  turnip  and 
carrot,  all  cut  fine  and  fried  in  3  tablespoons  of  butter.  Into  the 
butter  remaining  in  pan  put  \y2  spoons  of  flour  and  cook  until 
brown.  Add  to  soup  and  simmer  1  hour  all  together.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Serve  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  egg  balls.    Sherry  wine  if  desired. 

Mrs.  George  W.  T.  Lord. 

CREOLE  SOUP 

One  quart  brown  soup  stock,  1  pint  tomatoes,  3  tablespoons 
chopped  green  peppers,  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  %  CUP  but- 
ter,* 1-3  cup  flour,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  2  tablespoons  grated  horse- 
radish, 1  teaspoon  vinegar,  %  cup  macaroni  rings.  Cook  pepper 
and  onion  in  butter  five  minutes.  Add  flour,  stock  and  toma- 
toes, and  simmer  fifteen  minutes ;  strain,  rub  through  sieve  and 
season  highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne.  Just  before  serving 
add  horseradish,  vinegar  and  macaroni  rings. 

Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 

16 


KORNLET  SOUP 

Cook  1  can  Kornlet  in  1  pint  cold  water  for  20  minutes;  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Fry  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  in  4  table- 
spoons butter  for  three  minutes,  remove  onion,  add  4  tablepoons 
flour.  Stir  into  Kornlet,  add  1  quart  scalded  milk,  \y2  teaspoons 
salt,  J/s  teaspoon  pepper ;  strain  and  serve  and  garnish  with  popped 
corn>  Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

ENGLISH  CORN  SOUP 

One  can  of  corn  mashed  in  a  chopping  tray  and  put  in  a 
double  boiler  with  1  quart  of  milk.  Cook  15  minutes.  Fry  1  onion 
in  3  tablespoons  of  butter  for  about  10  minutes.  Add  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  cook  until  smooth.  Add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk  till  the 
butter  and  flour  will  pour  easily,  then  add  this  to  the  milk  in 
double  boiler.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  through  a  fine 
strainer  and  return  to  the  fire.  Add  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  up 
in  1  cup  of  milk.  Cook  a  little  longer  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream  Mrs.  Matt  S.  Hughes. 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  SOUP 

Take  four  good  sized  carrots,  two  potatoes,  two  onions  and 
two  sticks  of  celery.  Cut  up  fry  brown  in  butter.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  one  quart  of  hot  water  and  cook  until  the  vegetables 
are  quite  soft;  press  through  a  sieve,  and  return  to  the  fire,  add- 
ing a  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  cloves,  two  tablespoons  of  finely 
minced  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season . 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starch or  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Add  to  the  soup.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
serve  with  croutons.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP 

One  lb.  mushrooms,  4  cups  white  stock,  1  slice  of  onion,  % 
cup  butter,  %  cup  flour,  1  cup  cream,  salt,  pepper,  2  tablespoons 
sauterne.  Chop  mushrooms,  add  to  white  stock  with  onion,  cook 
twenty  minutes,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Just  before  serving  add 
wine.  Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Fry  %  pound  of  sliced  salt  pork  and  two  large  onions  (sliced) 
together  but  not  too  brown.  Pare  and  slice  six  potatoes,  cover 
with  water  and  cook  until  nearly  done;  add  to  the  potatoes  the 
strained  liquor  from  pork  and  onions.  Scald  1 J4  pounds  of  bar- 
racuda (in  one  piece)  with  boiling  water  to  remove  the  skin  and 
bones  (the  large  bone  may  be  removed  more  easily  later)  and 
add  to  potatoes  with  three  pints  of  milk.  Cook  slowly  until  fish 
is  done.  Just  before  serving  add  tablespoon  of  butter  and  salt, 
pepper  and  paprika  to  taste.  Mrs.  Hallett. 

STATE  OF  MAINE  FISH  CHOWDER 

Three  slices  of  fat  salt  pork;  1  lb.  of  fresh  fish;  6  medium 
sized  potatoes  sliced ;  2  small  onions,  sliced ;  small  piece  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

Fry  the  pork  in  the  kettle  in  which  the  chowder  is  to  be  made. 
Then  put  in  the  kettle  alternate  layers  of  potatoes,  onions  and 
fish  (cut  in  small  pieces).  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
slowly  for  one  hour.  Add  seasoning,  butter  and  milk,  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Boadway. 

17 


BISQUE  OF  OYSTERS 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  quart  of  soup  stock,  1  pint  of  milk, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  1  pint  of  cream ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mash 
the  oysters  and  boil  in  the  stock.  Strain  and  add  the  milk,  pepper 
and  salt.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  cream  with  the  beaten 
yolks.    Stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Holbert. 

CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP 

Peel  and  cut  into  thin  slices  a  dozen  small  white  onions  and 
fry  them  to  a  light  brown  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  to  onions 
a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  a  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  one  of  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  pinch  of  mace.  Cook 
y2  hour  slowly  and  strain  through  fine  sieve.  Add  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten  and  1  cup  cream.   Serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  Arthur  R.  Dodworth. 
TOMATO  SOUP 

One  quart  can  tomatoes ;  cook  a  very  little ;  y2  teaspoon  soda, 
1  quart  milk  or  a  little  less.  When  both  are  boiling,  turn  them 
together,  not  cooking  any  more ;  thicken  with  a  little  corn  starch, 
salt,  strain  through  colander.  Mrs.  Frederick  Gleason. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

One  quart  minced  clams  (fresh  ones  preferred)  ;  2  quarts  milk ; 
1  medium  sized  tomato;  1  medium  sized  onion;  1  medium  sized 
bell  pepper,  yA  red  Chili  pepper,  3  slices  bacon,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  6  level  tablespoons  flour,  2  cups 
potatoes  diced,  salt  to  taste.  Cut  onion,  peppers  and  bacon  in 
small  bits  and  fry  slowly  for  one-half  hour,  or  until  onion  is  thor- 
oughly cooked  and  browned;  add  flour  and  butter  and  brown. 
Let  milk  and  clams  come  to  a  boil,  add  potatoes,  which  have  been 
cooked  separately,  and  tomatoes,  which  have  been  cut  into  small 
bits,  using  as  little  of  the  seeds  and  juice  as  possible.  Add  contents 
of  frying  pan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mrs.  K.  M.  Duncan. 

SCOTCH  BROTH 

Two  lbs.  neck  of  mutton  cut  in  dice,  cover  with  2  quarts  cold 
water;  simmer  1  hour.  One  carrot  cut  in  dice;  1  small  onion 
sliced  thin,  %  cabbage  shredded,  1  small  turnip  diced.  Simmer  an- 
other hour.  Take  the  bones  and  meat  from  the  kettle;  return 
some  of  the  diced  meat,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mrs.  Edward  F.  Robbins. 


Fish  and  Shell  Fish 

"And  I  will  but  drop  my  hook  and  behold!  the  dinner  made." 
— Robert  Louis  Stevenson. 

CODFISH  IN  RAMEKINS 

Cream  y2  package  prepared  codfish  and  put  into  small  buttered 
ramekins,  filling  each  half  full.  Beat  white  of  egg  stiff  and  grad- 
ually add  a  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  beating  all  until  light.  Drop 
spoons  of  this  on  fish  and  put  in  oven  till  it  puffs  and  browns. 

Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

18 


BREADED  FILET  OF  SOLE 

Divide  a  pound  or  more  of  filet  of  sole  in  pieces  suitable  for 
individual  service.  Mix  together  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  and  sprinkle  over  the  fish,  then  set  aside  for  an  hour  or 
more.  Break  an  egg  in  a  saucer,  add  a  tablespoon  of  lukewarm 
water  and  with  a  fork  beat  just  enough  to  mix  well.  Dip  each 
piece  of  fish  in  this,  then  roll  in  fine  dry  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
deep,  smoking  hot  fat.  As  browned  take  out  and  lay  on  soft  paper 
to  drain.  When  perfectly  cold  arrange  on  platter,  garnishing  with 
lemon  quarters  and  parsley  and  pass  with  cucumber  sauce. 

Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 

MOLDED   SALMON  WITH   CUCUMBER  SAUCE 

One  can  salmon,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  y2  tablespoon  salt,  \y2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  \y2  tablespoons  sugar,  y^  cup  milk,  y2  table- 
spoon flour,  y±  cup  vinegar;  1  teaspoon  mustard,  24  tablespoons 
granulated  gelatine,  a  little  cayenne.  Remove  salmon  from  can, 
rinse  thoroughly  with  hot  water,  and  separate  in  flakes.  Mix 
dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks,  butter,  milk  and  vinegar.  Cook 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens. 
Add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water.  Strain  and  all  to  salmon.  Fill 
individual  molds,  chill  and  serve  with  cucumber  sauce. 

Beat  one  half  cup  thick  cream  until  stiff ;  add  %  teaspoon  salt, 
a  few  grains  pepper  and  gradually  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  then 
add  One  cucumber  pared  chopped  and  drained. 

Mrs.  J.  Perry  Wood. 
COURTBOULLION  OF  FISH 

Put  into  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  of  lard  and  when  hot  add 
an  onion  and  bell  pepper  chopped  very  fine.  Just  as  they  begin 
to  brown  put  in  two  tablespoons  of  canned  tomatoes,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  paprika,  a  couple  of  bay  leaves,  kitchen  bouquet, 
and  stock  enough  to  cover  fish  and  make  a  good  sauce.  Slice  the 
fish  and  brown  a  little  in  another  pan,  then  add  to  the  sauce,  being- 
careful  not  to  break  the  slices,  let  the  whole  simmer  for  half  an 
hour.  The  French  add  a  cup  of  whit  wine  which  improves  the 
flavor,  or  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon.  Serve  the  fish  with  slices  of 
toast,  on  a  platter,  pouring  the  same  over  the  whole.  Remove 
the  bay  leaves.    Barracuda  is  very  nice  cooked  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Wood. 

HALIBUT  ROLLS 

Take  filet  of  chicken  halibut,  cut  in  pieces  about  four  inches 
long,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  In  center  of 
each  piece  put  two  shrimp  (or  oysters  if  desired)  ;  roll  and  tie  at 
ends  and  center  with  twine.  Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Remove  twine  and  pour  over 
each  Bernaise  sauce  and  serve  with  potato  dots. 

Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

SALMON  ROLL 

One  20c  can  of  salmon,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  1  cup 
rolled  crackers,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  juice  of  y2  lemon.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  roll  in  napkins.    Steam  1  hour. 

Miss  Ada  Breckenridge. 

19 


NEW  MARYLAND  Opens 

Thanksgiving  Day 

D.  M.  LINNARD,  Mgr. 
B  B 

CODFISH  BAKE 

One  pint  finely  shredded  codfish,  1  pint  mashed  potatoes,  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  2-3  cup  of  cream  (or  milk),  2  eggs,  beaten 
separately. 

Beat  whole  mixture  hard  and  long  (except  whites  of  eggs, 
which  should  be  added  the  last  thing  before  baking.)  Bake  m  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  or  pan.  Turn  out  on  a  platter,  and  pour  over 
it  the  sauce. 

Sauce:  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  \y2 
cups  of  boiling  water,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  hard  cooked  egg,  and 
white  pepper. 

Cream,  butter  and  flour,  and  add  to  boiling  water,  cook  till 
smooth.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  egg  chopped  fine. 

Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Rhodes. 

SALMON  LOAF 

One  large  can  salmon,  drain  off  the  liquor  and  mash  fine;  4 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  1 
cup  bread  crumbs.   Steam  1  hour. 

Sauce:  Strained  liquor  from  salmon,  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  corn  starch,  1  egg,  a  little  salt. 
Cook,  strain  and  pour  over  hot  loaf  when  served. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 

FISH  SOUFFLE 

Separate  1  can  of  salmon  into  flakes.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  paprika  and  lemon  juice.  Cook  y2  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs 
in  y2  cup  of  milk,  add  to  salmon  with  the  well  beaten  yolks  of 
3  eggs.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Turn  into  buttered 
mold,  steam  or  bake. 

Sauce  for  fish :  Melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour, 
1  cup  mik,  y2  cup  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  pimentoes  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.   Cayenne  to  taste.  Miss  Mary  S.  Wylie. 

MAINE  CODFISH  BALLS 

Use  potatoes  that  are  freshly  boiled.  Shredded  codfish  that 
has  been  soaked  in  water  several  hours.  To  each  cup  of  fish  add 
as  much  potato  whipped  up  to  a  soft  cream.  Mix  well  over  the 
fire  and  beat  in  one  egg  to  every  cupful  of  the  fish.  When  the 
mixture  is  thoroughly  cool,  make  into  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and 
when  ready  to  use,  fry  them  in  deep  fat.       Mrs.  Otis  Howard. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 

Melt  24  cup  of  butter  in  hot  frying  pan.  Add  1  quart  of  well 
drained  oysters ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne.  Cook  in  hot 
oven  until  the  edges  curl.  Serve  on  hot  squares  of  toast,  well 
buttered,  with  the  strained  liquor  from  the  oysters. 

Mrs.  James  B.  Swan. 

20 


FISH  TIMBALE 

Three  lbs.  chicken  halibut,  steam  and  chop  fine.  Mix  2  table- 
spoons butter,  iy2  tablespoons  flour,  and  then  add  V/2  cups  of  cream 
and  bring  to  boil,  then  add  fish  and  season  with  red  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Cool  this,  then  add  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff  ; 
put  in  mold  and  set  in  pan  of  water,  and  bake  an  hour.  Serve  with 
Hollandaise  sauce.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Cruickshank. 

FISH  TURBOT 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  fish,  take  out  bones  and  sprinkle  with 

pepper  and  salt.  ><4  .  .  «  T/ 

For  dressing,  heat  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  %  cup 
of  flour;  when  cool  add  2  eggs  and  */2  cup  of  butter  and  season 
with  onions  and  parsley,  very  little  of  each.    Put  in  a  baking  dish 
a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce  until  ful ;  cover  the  top  with 

bread  crumbs,  and  bake  l/2  hour.  _     ,  XT      „  , 

Mrs.  Malcom  J.  MacLeod,  New  York. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

One  pint  of  fish,  freshened  and  chopped  fine,  6  medium  sized 
potatoes,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  4  tablespoons  of 
milk  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  potatoes,  mix  with  fish  and  mash 
fine  and  light.  Add  egg  well  beaten,  butter,  milk  and  seasoning 
mix  well.  Form  into  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  flour  or  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Foote. 

DEVILED  CRAB 

Take  crab  from  the  shell,  cleaning  the  shell  well.  One  cup  cream 
and  milk  mixed,  ll/2  teaspoon  butter,  2  teaspoons  flour,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  nutmeg,  put  in 
pan  and  cook  for  few  minutes.    Refill  the  shell,  put  bread  crumbs 

on  top  and  bake.  Mrs-  E-  R-  HulL 

MINCED  CLAM 

Two  small  peppers,  1  large  onion,  1  can  Warrenton  clams 
(15c),  1  cup  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  2  hard  boiled  eggs.  Chop 
peppers  and  onion,  cook  in  butter  till  tender,  if  it  cooks  away 
too  much  add  a  little  of  clam  juice,  add  clams,  milk,  salt,  pepper, 
hard  boiled  eggs,  thicken  with  a  little  corn  starch.    Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  F.  F.  Rowland. 
OYSTERS  ON  TOAST 
One  quart  oysters  boiled  in  own  liquor,  turn  while  boiling  into 
a  colander  to  darin.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoon  sifted  flour  and  stir  one  minute.  Pour 
in  one  large  cup  oyster  liquor  slowly.  Yolks  2  eggs,  pinch  salt, 
cayenne  and  mace,  beat  thoroughly  and  add  to  boiling  liquor  but 
do  not  let  it  boil.  Put  in  the  oysters  and  serve  on  hot  buttered 
toast  or  in  pate  cases.    Mrs.  David  A.  Conrad,  Santa  Barbara. 

ESCALLOPED  CRABS 
One-half  dozen  fresh  crabs,  boiled ;  pick  the  meat  from  claws 
and  body.  Three  tablespoons  butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour  work- 
ed to  light  cream;  1  sweet  bell  pepper  chopped;  season  with  salt 
and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Put  all  together  in  sauce  pan  with  1  cup 
of  milk  or  cream,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Take  off  and  put  in  baking 
pan  well  buttered,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 

Mrs.  David  A.  Conrad,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal  

21 


BAKED  LOBSTER 

Remove  meat  from  a  2  lb.  lobster,  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  melt 
4  tablespoons  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  flour  and  y2  cup  each  of 
thin  cream  or  brown  or  white  soup  stock.  Add  lobster  to  sauce 
Season  with  salt  and  Taragon  vinegar.  Clean  lobster  shell;  put 
together  and  fill  shell  with  mixture.  Cover  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs  and  brown  in  oven.    Garnish  and  serve  in  shell. 

Miss  Mary  S.  Wylie. 


Entrees 

"But  roasted  thrushes  with  sweet  cheese  cakes  served, 
Flew  of  their  own  accord  down  the  guests'  throats." 

— Teleclides. 

FRIED  FROGS  LEGS 

Clean  two  dozen  frog's  legs  and  dip  them  one  by  one,  first 
in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  plungs  them  singly  into 
very  hot  fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  granish  with  parsley 
and  serve  with  Maitre  d'  Hotel  sauce  and  Saratoga  chips. 

Mrs.  Lena  Getchine. 
FRENCH  MUSHROOMS  WITH  EGGS 
Open  can  of  French  mushroom  buttons,  drain  and  add  to  liquor 
one  cup  of  rich  milk.  Make  white  sauce  of  this.  Add  to  sauce 
mushrooms  and  six  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters.  Heat  gently 
and  serve  on  toast,  garnishing  with  shredded  parsely  and  pimiento 
rings.    This  makes  a  dainty  dish  for  Sunday  suppers. 

Mrs.  Parker  Earle. 

CHILI  RENOS 

Wash  long  green  chili  peppers,  place  them  on  stove  in  hot 
pan  and  turn  constantly  until  the  blister.  Then  roll  them  in  a 
wet  towel  until  the  outside  skins  can  easily  be  removed.  Split 
one  side  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  veins  and  stuff  with  grated 
cheese  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the  stuffed  peppers  in 
an  egg  batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat  (J^  butter  and  Yz  lard.)  Can  be 
served  with  tomato  sauce.  Good  also  stuffed  with  sardines  and 
mayonnaise  dressing  mixed  together..       Mrs.  Chas.  V.  Craig. 

CORN  AND  CLAMS  SCALLOPED 

Open  a  can  of  minced  clams  and  aerate  for  several  hours  be- 
fore using.  Then  strain  off  the  juice  and  set  aside.  To  a  cup  of 
the  clams,  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  raw  corn  pulp.  Seed  and  chop 
fine  a  sweet  green  peper,  add  two  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped 
onion,  and  cook  in  four  tablespoons  of  butter  for  ten  minutes, 
without  coloring.  Add  four  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  till  frothy. 
Gradually  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  clam  juice  and  stir  till 
thickened.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  three  table- 
spoons of  cream,  reduce  the  heat  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  again 
then  add  corn  and  clams,  and  seasoning  as  needed.  Fill  buttered 
individual  patty  pans ;  cover  the  top  of  each  with  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  a  little  melted  butter,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  with  quartered  lemons.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

22 


FOR  THE  BEST  OF 


FUEL  and  FEED 

Call  Fair  Oaks  136 

O'BRIEN  &  BYERS,  gg  g  QgcgJJ 


S  □ 


ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI 

Boil  macaroni  soft,  put  a  layer  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
oysters,  a  litle  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  then  another  layer  of 
macaroni  and  oystersfi  till  dish  is  filled,  last  layer  macafonn.  Over 
top  pour  oyster  liquid,  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  onion 
iuice  cover  with  grated  crumbs  and  cheese,  bake  until  nicely 
browned.  Mrs-  Chas.  A.  Gardner. 

GRATIN  OF  LOBSTER 

Cut  a  good  sized  lobster  in  half,  pick  out  all  the  meat.  Cut 
in  thin  slices,  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  the  stew- 
pan  with  3  shallots  finely  chopped.  Brown  them  slightly  then 
mix  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  when  quite  smooth  add  y2  pint  of 
milk,  simmer  for  5  minutes,  put  in  lobster  sliced,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  y2  teaspoon  Anchovie 
sauce.  Stir  over  fire,  when  boiling  draw  stewpan  back,  and  add 
the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  fill  the  shell  of  lobster  with  the 
mixture,  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  it  and  pour  on  a  little 
clarified  butter,  put  the  shell  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  parsley.  Caroline  Tuckey. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS 

One  large  lobster,  3  tablspoons  butter,  y2  cup  stock  or  cream, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  a  little  cayenne,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  3  eggs,  1  pint  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Cut  lobster  into  fine  pieces  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Melt 
the  butter,  stir  into  it  the  flour  and  when  smooth  add  the  stock  or 
cream  and  cook  until  thick,  then  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  season 
and  take  from  stove,  add  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  the  lobster 
and  parsley.  Butter  a  platter  and  spread  out  to  cool.  When  cold 
form  into  cutlets,  dip  into  fine  bread  crumbs,  let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  then  beat  the  two  remaining  eggs  and  dip  the  cutlets  in 
them  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  again.    Serve  with  tartar  sauce. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Holbert. 

CLAM  PATTIES 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one  of  butter.  Add  hot 
milk  and  when  thickened  add  the  contents  of  one  can  of  Razor 
Minced  Clams.  This  should  make  enough  sauce  for  six  patty 
shells.  Heat  the  patty  shells  in  the  oven  before  pouring  the  sauce 
in  them  Miss  Emilie  S.  Neff. 

23 


PIMIENTOES  a  la  CREME 

Two  cans  Pimientoes,  2  cans  French  mushrooms,  1  set  sweet 
breads,  1  cup  diced  celery  cooked. 

Make  a  cup  of  white  sauce,  add  above  ingredients  with  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.  Stuff  the  pimientoes  and  bake  about  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving.  Mrs.  Walter  S.  Wright. 

SWEETBREADS 

Par  boil,  then  put  in  pan  with  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  to  a 
pair,  set  in  oven  for  about  20  minutes.  Make  a  dressing  by  adding 
tablespoon  of  flour  to  each  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  pepper, 
salt  and  milk.  Serve  on  pieces  of  toast  made  by  cutting  thick  slices 
of  bread  with  a  doughnut  cutter,  then  dip  in  egg  and  milk  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Mrs.  S.  D.  MacFarland. 

ANGELS  ON  HORSE  BACK 

Take  very  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  cut  all  rind  off,  then  take 
an  oyster  or,  two  if  very  small,  pour  on  it  two  drops  of  essence  of 
Anchovie,  4  of  lemon,  and  a  grain  of  cayenne,  and  roll  it  in  the 
slice  of  bacon.  When  there  are  sufficient  of  these  rolls  put  them 
on  a  small  skewer.  When  cooked  take  each  one  separately,  place 
on  a  fried  crouton,  serve  very  hot.  Caroline  Tuckey. 

CLAM  BOUDINETTES 

Early  in  the  morning  open  and  aerate  a  can  of  clams.  Chop 
the  clams — they  should  measure  one  cup  and  a  quarter.  Make  a 
sauce  with  a  half  cup  of  clam  juice,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two 
and  a  half  tablespoons  of  flour,  one-third  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  half  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  juice.  When  thick  add  the  chopped  clams,  cook 
and  stir  for  a  minute  longer,  then  turn  out  and  chill.  Mold  in 
small  balls,  dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  golden 
brown  in  deep,  smoking,  hot  fat.  Mary  Greathouse. 

AN  EPICURE'S  RECEIPT  FOR  STEWED  KIDNEYS 

Boil  12  lambs  kidneys  five  hours,  changing  the  water  three 
times.  Save  the  last  for  gravy,  add  a  little  brown  gravy  thicken- 
ing, season  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  half  a  wine  glass  of  sherry, 
add  salt  if  needed. 

Brown  Gravy  Thickening:  Brown  together  lb-  butter  and 
1  teaspoon  white  sugar;  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Put  this 
into  the  oven  and  keep  browning  and  mixing  it  over  until  it  is 
a  nice  brown  without  scorching.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
This  is  a  fine  thickening  for  any  rich  dark  gravy,  and  may  be  kept 
for  some  time.  Shrimp  Curry        Mrs.  J.  B.  Durand. 

One  cocoanut,  1  can  shrimp,  I  onion,  1  cup  boiled  water, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  curry.  Grate 
the  cocoanut,  add  the  cup  of  milk,  and  let  it  soak  for  an  hour,  then 
strain  the  milk  off.  Slice  the  onion  and  fry  it  brown  with  a  little 
butter.  Then  pour  the  cup  of  boiled  water  over  it  and  add  the 
shrimps  and  the  milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  two  teaspoons 
of  flour  and  one  of  curry,  wet  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  in 
with  the  rest.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
butter.  Very  dainty  for  luncheon  served  in  a  little  circle  of  rice 
on  each  plate.  Mrs.  B.  O.  Kendall. 

24 


City  Meat  Market 

JOHN  BREINER,  Proprietor 

Fresh,  Salt  and  Smoked  Meats  Poultry  in  Season 

Colo.  154 

118  East  Colorado  Street,  PASADENA,  CAL. 

=======— ===^^  B  □=  ===============^ 

BRAIN  TIMBALES 

Boil  6  brains  slowly  20  minutes  in  a  little  water  with  table- 
spoon vinegar ;  drain  and  when  cold  put  through  a  ricer.  Soak  1-3 
loaf  bread,  crusts  removed,  in  water  and  squeeze  dry,  put  it  also 
through  ricer. 

Take  2  cups  brains,  1  cup  of  the  bread  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch 
of  ginger,  ^  of  a  grated  onion  and  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  all  to- 
gether well  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs  put  in  well  but- 
tered timbale  molds  set  ina  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  20  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.   Will  serve  14. 

Serve  with  cream  sauce  with  mushrooms  a  little  sherry  and 
a  few  drops  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 


Meats 

"Give  no  more  to  every  guest, 

Than  he  is  able  to  digest. 
Give  him  always  of  the  prime, 

And  but  little  at  a  time." 

— Pope. 

ROAST  BEEF 

Put  the  beef  into  a  double  roaster.  Cover  with  dripping  and 
have  a  very  hot  oven  for  the  first  half  hour,  so  the  meat  will  sear 
over  and  keep  the  juice  in.  After  the  first  half  hour  lessen  the 
heat  of  the  oven  and  season  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
10  minutes  to  the  pound  if  wished  rare,  or  15  minutes  will  make  it 
well  done.   Baste  often.  Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 

Five  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  3  eggs,  1  pint  milk  and  a 
little  salt.  Put  the  eggs,  flour  and  a  little  of  the  milk  into  a  bowl, 
and  beat  well  with  a  spoon,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  One 
half  hour  before  roast  beef  is  done,  pour  this  mixture  into  a  separ- 
ate dripping  pan  into  which  has  been  poured  enough  dripping  from 
the  roast  beef  to  make  it  3-4  of  an  inch  deep  in  pan.  Have  the 
grease  sizzling  and  bake  30  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  on 
platter  around  beef.  Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

25 


Do  Your  Cooking  on  a 

DOMESTIC  GAS  RANGE 

and  You  Wont  Have  Any  Failures 


Pasadena  Hardware  Co. 

W.  Colorado  Street 

a  a 

MEAT  CROQUETTES 

One  pan  chopped  cold  meat,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  boiled  onion,  1  clove  of  garlic, 
summer  savory,  curry  powder,  sweet  marjoram,  bay  leaves,  salt, 
pepper,  2  eggs,  cracker  crumbs. 

Put  onion  on  to  boil.  When  done,  add  onion  juice  to  meat, 
also  onion  and  garlic  chopped  fine.  Make  a  thick  white  sauce  of 
the  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  meat,  and  cook  awhile.  Then 
season  to  taste,  and  set  away  in  buttered  pan  to  cool.  Before  dinner 
time  cut  meat  into  oblong  slices,  rolling  each  one  in  the  well  beaten 
eggs,  then  in  the  sifted  crumbs.   Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs  Joseph  F.  Rhodes 

SMOTHERED  STEAK 

Take  2  lbs.  round  steak,  cut  two  inches  thick.  Into  this,  pound 
y2  cup  flour,  with  a  meat  pounder.  Then  put  into  a  well  buttered 
hot  skillet,  turn  until  well  browned  on  both  sides.  If  desired,  cook 
a  slice  of  green  pepper  and  small  piece  of  onion  in  the  melted  butter, 
before  adding  steak.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  into  a  hot 
casserole,  pour  over  this  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cover  closely. 
Cook  in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours. 

Mrs.  H.  L  Stuart. 

FILET  OF  PORK  OR  BEEF 

Cut  open  a  meat  tenderloin  and  stuff  with  following  dressing: 
some  chopped  carrots,  green  peas,  English  walnuts,  olives,  raisins 
and  a  little  Chili.  Tie  it  well  and  sear  it  well  in  hot  lard.  Bake  in 
double  roaster,  keeping  the  meat  half  covered  with  water  until 
done.  Pork  should  be  cooked  2y2  hours.  Thicken  the  gravy,  add 
a  little  tomato;  a  bay  leaf  and  some  kitchen  bouquet. 

Mrs.  J.  Perry  Wood. 

STEAMED  BEEF 

Rump — piece  about  4  pounds.  Sear  in  hot  skillet  after  dust- 
ing with  flour,  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
1  small  carrot,  1  small  onion,  a  little  parsley,  6  cloves,  y2  teaspoon 
pepper  corns,  3  bay  leaves,  1  crust  of  graham  bread.  Cover  about 
half  with  boiling  water.  When  it  begins  to  boil  set  over  simmerer 
and  boil  slowly  for  four  hours.  Strain  gravy;  if  not  quite  thick 
enough,  thicken  a  little.        Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 

26 


TAMALE  LOAF 

One  large  cup  rice  boiled.  When  cold  line  buttered  double 
boiler  or  steamer  with  rice,  over  bottom  and  up  sides,  then  pack  in 
following  meat  loaf,  cover  over  with  rice  and  steam  3-4  hour :  Two 
cups  chopped  meat,  2  soda  crackers  ground,  1  egg,  1  cup  gravy,  I 
tablespoon  chopped  onion,  salt,  red  pepper,  half  pint  olives  (or 
more)  Serve  with  sauce  made  of  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onions,  salt  and  red 
pepper  Boil  till  thick.  Both  loaf  and  tomato  gravy  want  plenty 
of  red  pepper,  season  highly.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Jacobs. 

BAKED  STEAK 

One  round  of  flank  steak,  5  thick  slices  of  bread,  5  cold  boiled 
potatoes  (diced),  J4  cup  chopped  celery,  one  onion  chopped  and 
browned,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Soak  the  bread  and  squeeze  dry.  Mix  all  ingredients;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  too  dry  add  a  little  milk.  Spread  this 
stuffing  over  the  steak,  roll  and  tie.  Sear  well  in  smoking  hot 
pan    Add  a  little  water.    Roast  and  baste  until  tender. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Hahn. 

BEEF  LOAF 

Three  lbs.  round  steak,  ground  fine,  butter  size  of  one  egg,  4 
soda  crakers,  rolled  fine,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  milk,  1  tablespoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  pepper. 

Mix  thoroughly,  put  in  a  pan  and  bake  till  tender.  Pour  off 
the  gravy  and  pour  if  over  the  loaf.   Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Percy  Griffin. 

PASTEYS 

Make  a  suet  crust  and  roll  out  yA  of  an  inch  thick  about  the 
size  of  a  tea  pleate.  Then  place  on  y2  of  the  dough  one  thinly  sliced 
potato,  then  sirloin  steak  cut  in  small  pieces,  pepper,  salt,  butter 
and  a  little  onion.  Turn  over  the  other  half  of  the  dough,  and 
pinch  the  crust  together,  and  crimp.    Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 
BEEF  STEAK  PUDDING 
Line  a  pudding  bowl  with  rich  suet  crust.    Fill  with  sirloin 
steak;  cut  in  cubes  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  (and  a 
little  onion  if  desired).    Cover  with  the  crust  and  steam  four  hours 
Serve  in  same  dish  that  it  is  cooked  in. 

Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

MEAT  LOAF 

Three  lbs.  round  steak  ground  with  y2  lb.  sausage  meat,  1  egg 
beaten,  form  into  loaf.  Place  in  double  roasting  pan  with  small 
white  onions ;  carrots  and  white  potatoes  around  it  and  roast  about 
3  hours  Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 

MEAT  BALLS  WITH  CABBAGE 

Mix  hamburger  steak  with  soft  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  milk, 
add  2  beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  well.  Boil  cabbage  in 
in  salt  water  until  leaves  get  soft,  pick  them  off  and  put  one  spoon- 
ful of  meat  in  each  leaf  and  roll  it  up.  Put  in  frying  pan  and  roast 
in  oven  until  brown.  Baste  well  with  stock  and  add  a  little  cream. 
Mix  with  a  little  flour.   Serve  with  sauce  over  them. 

Mrs.  Charles  Baxter. 

27 


H 


The  Bon  Accord  "The  store  of  (Mitr 

SUPPLY   CHILDRENS   NEEDS  HERE 


H 


We  show  a  good  selection  of  Child- 
ren's Underwear  and  Hosiery, 
Umbrellas  and  Unbreakable  Dolls 


You  are  always  assured  of  Satisfac- 
tion with  anything  you  buy  in 
this  store.     Prices  moderate,  too 


Telephone  F.  0.  407 


HERMAN  R.  HERTEL        4147  N.  Raymond  Ave. 


E  E 

VEAL  AND  RICE  (Southern  dish)  8  Persons. 

Three  and  one-half  lbs.  sliced  veal  off  round,  4  large  onions,  1 
section  of  garlic,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne.  1  quart  cooked  rice.  Cut 
meat  in  pieces  of  uniform  size  and  brown  in  hot  fat  (equal  part 
butter  and  lard).  Remove  when  brown  to  a  stew  kettle  and  in  the 
remaining  fat  put  large  kitchen  spoon  of  flour,  add  boiling  water  to 
make  a  brown  gravy,  pour  over  meat,  add  sliced  onions,  garlic,  salt, 
pepper,  dash  cayenne,  cover  and  simmer  one  hour.  Add  water 
if  necessary.  Have  rice  cooked  and  in  a  mold.  Place  hot  rice  on 
platter,  cover  with  slices  of  meat  and  pour  gravy  over  all. 

Mrs.  Harry  Shlaudeman. 

A  "TASTY"  VEAL  LOAF 

One  pint  cold  minced  veal,  3  eggs  (hard  boiled),  one  quarter 
can  of  pimientoes  put  through  the  meat  grinder.  Mix  well,  add  3 
eggs  well  beaten,  3  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream,  add  salt,  pepper 
and  paprika.  Mold  into  a  loaf  and  bake  about  half  an  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven.   This  is  delicious  when  served  cold. 

Mrs.  Burton  G.  Bloom. 

BEEF-GULASH  (HUNGARIAN) 

Two  pounds  of  meat,  2  small  onions  in  cubes,  1  tablespoon  of 
lard,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  salt,  a  pinch  of  paprika,  1  cup  of 
water.  The  onions  are  stewed  in  the  lard.  The  meat  is  cut  into 
pieces  iy2  inches  thick  and  \y2  inches  square  and  added  to  the 
stewed  onions;  stew  10  minutes,  strewn  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
stewed  10  minutes  longer,  and  then  1  cup  of  water  poured  over. 
In  a  covered  pot  or  pan  it  is  now  stewed  for  2  to  2y2  hours,  stirring 
often.  If  it  gets  too  dry,  pour  on  more  water.  Gulash  must  not 
be  too  juicy.   A  little  red  wine  may  be  added. 

From  leavings  of  roast  beef  filets  or  stew  you  can  prepare 
gulash,  which  takes  only  a  half  hour  to  prepare.  Instead  of  water 
you  use  the  gravy.  Mrs.  Frank  V.  Rider. 

ROAST  LAMB 

Have  the  bone  taken  from  a  leg  of  lamb  or  mutton  at  the 
market.  Rub  into  the  leg  the  juice  of  a  raw  onion.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  the  oven  to  roast,  and  baste  often  with 
a  mixture  made  of  a  glass  of  currant  jelly,  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
and  a  glass  of  sherry.  Bake  2  or  3  hours,  or  until  a  glossy 
brown.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Butler. 

28 


CHILI  CON  CARNE 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  steak  cut  in  small  squares ;  1  table- 
spoon of  lard  very  hot,  put  meat  in  and  fry,  if  it  gets  too  dry  add 
some  water.  Soak  2  or  3  pods  of  red  peppers  for  an  hour  or  more 
then  cook  15  minutes  or  until  tender  in  the  water  which  they  have 
been  soaked,  mash  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  pulp  and  water  to 
the  meat,  also  1  cup  tomato  juice,  salt,  a  little  flour  and  a  small 
piece  of  garlic.  Heat  thoroughly  1  teaspoon  of  Camino;  1  teaspoon 
of  Oregano;  sift  into  meat.  Cook  slowly  3  or  4  hours,  then  add  1 
teaspoon  vinegar  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Mrs.  L.  S.  Roberts.  ^ 
SUET  CRUST  FOR  BEEF  STEAK  PUDDING  AND  PASTEYS 

To  each  pint  of  chopped  suet  add  equal  quantity  of  flour,  add 
a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Chop  the  flour  and  suet  together.  When  well 
mixed  add  sufficient  ice  water  to  make  a  moist  dough 

Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

USING  LEFT-OVERS 

Cut  meat  into  small  pieces ;  there  should  not  be  too  much  fat 
left  on  Cut  a  large  onion  and  dry  in  a  little  butter  till  pale  brown. 
In  a  little  baking  dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  meat,  onion,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  sliced  boiled  potatoes.  When  the  dish  is  filled  pour 
in  some  good  brown  gravy  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  buttered 
cracker  crumbs.   Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  V.  Rider. 

MEAT  SOUFFLE 

Two  cups  finely  chopped  meat,  */2  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  pint 

milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  chopped 

parsley.    Mix  butter  and  flour  and  add  boiling  milk.    Salt,  pepper, 

2  little  onions,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  whites  added  last ;  bake  in 

a  pudding  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  25  minutes. 
y        6  Mrs.A.  C.  Burton. 

TIMBALES  OF  COLD  MEAT 

One  and  one  half  pints  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  ^  pint  hot 
stock,  1-3  teaspoon  pepper,  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice, 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs,  y2  pint  grated 
bread  crumbs.  Mix  hot  stock  and  butter.  Add  seasoning  and 
crumbs  to  the  meat.  Pour  liquid  mixture  on  this  and  let  stand  y2 
hour.  Add  beaten  eggs;  fill  buttered  moulds  and  bake  in  pan  of 
water  in  cool  oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  tomato,  brown  or  cream 
sauce  Mrs.  W.  D.  Murphy. 

BONED  BREAST  OF  LAMB 

Take  the  breast  from  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb  and  have  the 
butcher  bone  it.  Put  the  bones  in  a  kettle  with  two  quarts  of 
sliced  fresh  tomatoes,  or  one  can,  and  a  quart  of  water.  Add  a 
a  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  y2  teaspoon  of  pepper 
and  cook  till  the  liquid  is  reduced  one-half,  then  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Wipe  the  meat,  sprinkle  the  inside  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  thyme  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  chopped 
parsley;  roll  tightly  and  tie.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of  drippings 
in  a  deep  kettle  and  in  it  brown  the  meat,  turning  till  evenly 
colored.  Pour  over  it  the  hot  strained  tomato  and  simmer  an 
hour  and  a  half,  thickening  and  adding  any  necessary  seasoning 
half  an  hour  before  dishing.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

29 


NEW  ENGLAND  BOILED  DINNER 

Four  pounds  of  corned  beef,  4  or  5  beets,  a  small  cabbage,  5  or 
6  carrots,  turnips,  and  potatoes. 

Wash  and  soak  the  corned  beef  in  cold  water  and  put  it  on  to 
boil  in  fresh  cold  water;  skim  and  simmer  until  tender,  but  not 
long  enough  for  it  to  fall  to  pieces.  Let  it  cool  in  the  liquor  in  which 
it  was  boiled.  Put  it  into  a  flat  shallow  dish;  cover  with  a  board 
and  press  it. 

Save  the  meat  liquor  and  remove  the  fat. 

The  next  day  prepare  the  vegetables.  Wash  them  all,  scrape 
the  carrots,  and  cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters ;  pare  the  turnips  and 
potatoes.  Put  the  meat  liquor  on  to  boil,  (if  too  salt  freshen  with 
clear  water).  When  boiling  add  the  carrots,  afterwards  the  cab- 
bage and  turnips  and  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  add  the  potatoes. 

Boil  the  beets  in  a  separate  kettle  in  some  of  the  meat  liquor. 

When  tender  take  the  vegetables  up  carefully,  drain  the  water 
from  the  cabbage,  peel  the  beets  and  serve  in  a  large  dish  with  meat 
in  the  center,  or  in  separate  dishes. 

Mrs.  J.  Winslow  Chick. 
POT  ROAST 

Four  lbs.  beef  rump  or  shoulder,  3  carrots,  1  onion,  1  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  whole  mixed  spices,  pint 
boiling  water;  1  tablespoon  salt.  Dredge  meat  in  flour.  Fry  brown 
on  both  sides  in  1  tablespoon  dripping.  Place  in  earthen  covered 
baking  dish.  Add  boiling  water,  vinegar,  vegetables  and  spices. 
Roast  in  moderate  oven  3  to  4  hours,  according  to  quality  of  meat. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  add  salt,  and  leave  off  cover  of 
dish,  basting  repeatedly  while  meat  is  browning.  Scraping  sides 
of  the  baking  dish  adds  greatly  to  flavor  of  meat  as  well  as  gravy, 
to  which  another  cup  of  boiling  water  may  be  added  should  the 
roast  have  cooked  dry.  Mrs.  Ralph  Davidson. 

MEAT  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES 

Mix  one  cup  (half  a  pound)  of  raw  or  cooked  beef  from  the  top 
of  the  round,  or  any  other  meat  cooked  chopped  or  cut  very  fine 
with  1-3  cup  of  washed  rice  cooked  before  mixing;  add  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Cook 
a  cabbage  in  boiling  salt  water  for  2  or  3  minutes,  so  that  the  leaves 
may  be  pliable  and  removed  from  the  head  in  perfect  condition. 
Remove  the  leaves,  one  by  one,  and  in  each  wrap  a  rounding  tabl- 
spoon  of  the  meat  and  rice.  Lay  the  croquettes  in  a  baking  dish, 
pour  over  them  a  tomato  sauce,  cover  the  dish,  and  bake  1  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Serve  arranged  on  a  dish  with  the  tomato  sauce 
poured  over  them.  If  the  sauce  becomes  too  thick  in  cooking,  dilute 
with  stock  or  water.  While  cooking  keep  covered  with  another 
pan  so  as  not  to  brown  the  cabbage  leaf  at  all.  When  done  leaf 
can  be  easily  punctured  by  a  broomstraw. 

Tomato  Sauce:  Brown  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  5  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  by  one  half  cups  each  of 
brown  stock  and  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Add  one  slice 
onion,  one  slice  carrot,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  four 
cloves,  ^teaspoon  salt,  Ya  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne.  Cook  ten  minutes  and  strain.      Mrs.  Frank  V.  Rider. 

30 


Hermosa  Beach,  •  the  beautiful 

Has  brought  happiness  to  all  families  privileged  to  visit  it,  and  its  most 
beneficial  effect  is  in  promoting  the  harmony  of  home  life  and  furnishing 
The  Ideal  Vacation  Spot. 

CLIFFORD  J.  PLATT,  384  East  Colorado  Street. 
FT  H 

FRIZZLED  BEEF  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY 

One  cup  dried  beef,  1  tablespoon  (rounding)  butter,  1  table- 
spoon (rounding)  flour,  1  cup  cold  milk,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt  (level). 

Put  dried  beef  into  the  frying  pan,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
let  water  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Remove  from  fire,  drain 
and  turn  back  into  the  frying  pan.  Then  add  the  butter  and  let 
the  meat  cook  until  it  frizzles.  Now  add  the  flour  and  mix  well ; 
add  the  milk  all  at  once,  stir  until  sauce  is  smooth  and  thickened. 
Have  ready  some  squares  of  toasted  bread,  place  them  in  the  platter 
and  pour  over  them  the  beef.  Miss  Nina  Stone. 

STUFFED  LAMB,  VEAL  OR  PORK 

Have  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  veal  or  pork  boned.  Stuff  and  tie 
or  skewer  securely.  Bake  as  an  ordinary  roast.  Thicken  the 
gravy  a  little  and  add  a  little  kitchen  bouquet. 

Stuffing:  Two  cups  stale  bread  crumbs,  yA  teaspoon  pepper, 
y2  cup  melted  butter,  1  small  onion,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg, 
y2  cup  milk.    A  little  poultry  dressing  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  Perry  Wood. 

LAMB  STEW 

Two  pounds  lean  lamb,  1  cup  barley,  2  quarts  water,  y2  onion, 

1  carrot  (small).  Have  bones  taken  out  of  meat  and  cracked  at 
butcher's.  Boil  chunks  of  meat  and  barley  two  hours.  Let  bones 
simmer  in  shallow  water  two  hours,  strain  and  add  to  meat.  Salt 
to  taste,  add  vegetables  and  boil  two  hours  or  longer.  Very  easily 
digested.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Roberts. 

BAKED  HAM 
Wash  a  2-pound  slice  of  ham  and  lay  in  pan.    Sprinkle  with 

2  teaspoons  of  mustard  (and  a  little  sugar  if  desired).  Cover  with 
heated  milk.  Cover  and  let  cook  slowly  for  \y2  hours,  or  until 
tender.  Then  thicken  milk  for  gravy,  adding  1  teaspoon  kitchen 
bouquet.  Miss  Annie  W.  Doolittle. 

THIS  BACON  TASTES  GOOD 
Slice  amount  preferred  and  soak  several  pieces  in  sweet  milk 
about  30  minutes.    Then  fry  one  piece  that  has  not  been  in  milk, 
take  other  from  milk  and  roll  in  flour  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  using 
the  milk  to  make  gravy.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 

HAM  CROQUETTES 
One  cup  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2 
cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  3  eggs,  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper ;  beat  ham,  butter,  pepper  and  two  of  the  eggs 
into  the  potato.  Let  mixture  cool  slightly,  then  shape  into  cro- 
quettes. Roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Dip  in  egg,  again  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  cook  2  minutes  in  deep  hot  lard.        Mrs.  Eben  P.  Clapp. 

31 


Southern  California  Distinctive 

Establ  ishment 


We  not  only  handle  the  most  exclusive 
Furniture  and  Decorative  Materials,  Rugs 
and  Art  goods,  but  also  the  medium  Furniture 
and  Domestic  Rugs.  It  will  pay  you  to 
"Try  Your  Home  Merchant  First."  We  are 
exclusive  agents  for  Buck  Ranges  and  Bohn 
Refrigerators.  :::::: 


BOADWAY  BROS. 

268-278  East  Colorado  Street 
=========================  □  0  ■ 

TIMBALES  OF  VEAL 

Chop  cold  cooked  veal  or  lamb  very  fine.  For  every  pint 
allow  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  y2  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  whites 
of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  (if  liked),  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Pour  the  butter  over  the  meat,  add  cream  or  milk,  then 
pound  mixture  well  with  potato  masher.  Add  whites  beaten  stiff 
and  the  seasonings.  Fill  custard  cups  two-thirds  full,  stand  in 
pan  surrounded  by  hot  water;  bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 
When  done  turn  out  onto  heated  dish  and  serve  with  tomato 
sauce.  Mrs.  B.  Marshall  Wotkyns. 

HAM  MOUSSE 

Cut  a  thick  part  from  center  of  raw  ham.  Remove  the  fat 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  scrape  the  pulp  from  the  fibre  (there  should 
be  a  cup  full).  Pound  the  pulp  with  a  pestle  in  a  wooden  mixing 
bowl,  add  the  white  of  an  egg,  pound  again,  then  add  the  second 
white  of  an  egg,  then  pound  again.  Add  ^4cup  of  cold  sauce,  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  y2  teaspoon  pepper.  Then  fold  in  a 
cup  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a 
melon  mold.  Set  the  mold  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  cook  an  hour 
in  the  oven.   Avoid  boiling  water. 

White  Sauce:  One  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  milk.  Blend  the  butter  and  flour  and  add  the  milk. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  Rudolph  Schiffman. 

32 


ENGLISH  MEAT  CHOPS 

Two  cups  cold  chopped  lamb,  /2  can  mushrooms  chopped  hue, 
y2  telrpoon^alt,  dash  o^pepper,  1 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  m  sauce  pan.    Add  Z  heaping  tame 
fpoons  or flour  and  1  cup  of  meat  stock.   Cook  until  very  , *iff.  Add 
P?w  S  ?  eo-^  beaten  then  the  mushrooms  and  meat.  Spread 
7 °!  ™  nLefan I  cod     Form  into  the  shape  of  chops  and  use 
out  on  plates  and  cool,    r  o  Excellent  with  or  without 

maccaroni  for  bone.    Fry  m  deep  ^  r  Markham. 

mushrooms. 

JELLIED  VEAL  .  .  u 

Take  a  eood-sized  knuckle  of  veal;  cut  up  and  joint  bones. 
TlnilTn  wate enough  to  cover  it.  While  boiling  add  salt  to  taste  ; 
St^n^"n^^  rags;  take  up  the  meat  and  season  with 

Sine  soaked  in  a  little  water  for  20  minutes  or  more  and  add 
f„  fhV  luiM  of  the  meat,  let  boil  up,  then  pour  over  meat  in  the 
orm    Then  it  cooTs  and  begins  fo  stiffen  put  something  on  « 
to  press  it  down  and  on  that  place  an  iron  weighty next 

day'  JELLIED  TONGUE 

^1ert  a  nice  fresh  tongue,  wash  and  boil  until  it  is  tender  and 
winelsekLaena^y  Add  tS  water  into  which  tongu, ,  „  boiled 
onion,  1  head  celery,  3  pieces  parsley,  bay  lea f,  1  spr ig  « 
a  little  green  pepper,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Line  a  moid  tne 
size  reaped  to  hold  tongue  with  stuffed  olives,  sliced  hard  boiled 
eSrs  Place  tongue  in  the  mold.  Boil  down  2  cups  of  the  liquor 
S  it  is  one  cup  add  /2  teaspoon  gelatine  (which  has  been  pre- 
viously soaked  "n  cold  'water)  to  stock.  Pour  over  tongue,  let 
IZ d  Ltil  well  set.   Turn  out  on  dish,  parsley 

SAUERBRATEN  (SOUR  ROAST) 

Four  pounds  of  meat,  2  quarts  vinegar,  1  onion  cut  in  slices, 
10  pepper  corns,  3  bay  leaves,  %  lb.  bacon,  3  cloves j  salt  to  taste 
2/2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  drippings,  /2  claret  g  ass  red 
wine.    Put  the  meat  into  vinegar  with  the  spices  and  J leave  it 
there  for  four  days,  turning  it  over  once  in  »^ile    After  th« 
take  it  out  and  lard  it  with  bacon  cut  into  pieces  1  inch  thick  and 
?i/  inches  Ions'     Pierce  the  meat  with  a  pointed  knife  and  mseir 
A  bacon    Heat  the  lard  and  fry  the  meat  light  brown  on  both 
?des  and"  place  it  on  a  platter.    Brown  the  flour  m  the  lard  and 
Dour  on  the  vinegar  with  the  spices,  water  and  salt.    Put  m  a 
pTce  of  honey  caL  if  on  hand  and  J4  tablespoon  of  ^  *g 
all  and  put  the  roasted  meat  in  this  gravy.   The  meat  roast  must 
be  covered  and  baked  in  an  oven  for  2/2  to  3  hours  while  turning 
it  and  basting  it  with  gravy.    Half  hour  before  done  pourm  he 
red  wine.    When  the  roast  is  tender,  finish  the :  gravy-  ™ 
rotst  on  a  platter,  take  all  grease  off  the  gravy  ; ^"f  f  am  it.  If  it  is 
too  thick,  add  more  water;  if  not  sour  enough  add  more  vinegar. 
Potato  dumplings  or  noodles  are  good  with  g^^dtv. 

33 


E.  O.  Nay  Company 


PLUMBING  HEATING 
VENTILATING 

Colo.  62  186  EAST  UNION  STREET 

B  B 

ESCALLOPED  VEAL 

Chop  two  cups  of  cold  cooked  veal;  add  teaspoon  onion 
juice  and  season  well.  Mix  y2  cup  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  % 
teaspoon  mustard,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  2  tablespoons  cracker 
crumbs,  and  moisten  with  white  stock.  Saute  cup  cracker 
crumbs  in  yA  cup  butter;  add  to  chopped  veal  and  miosten  with 
white  stock.  Line  a  mold  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  fill  with 
alternate  layers  of  ham  and  veal  mixture.  Pack  tightly,  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  steam  one  hour.  Cool  and  serve  in  thin 
slices.  Mrs.  Garfield  R.  Jones. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE 

Wilt  a  loose  head  of  cabbage  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
it ;  cover  tight  and  let  stand  an  hour.  Lay  in  large  pan  or  chopping 
bowl  and  turn  leaves  back  to  center.  Chop  1  pound  of  fresh  pork 
and  y2  pound  of  beef;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  tea- 
spoon at  a  time  into  cabbage,  returning  leaves  to  original  shape. 
Tie  close  in  cloth  and  boil  in  salt  water  two  hours.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter  or  horseradish  sauce. 

Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 
VEAL  A  LA  DOBE 
Three  and  one-half  pounds  veal  chopped  fine,  add  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  \y2  spoons  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  y2  nut- 
meg, 4  small  crackers  rolled  fine,  5  tablespoons  cream  or  milk, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Stir  well  together  and  form  it  in  a  loaf 
and  bake  in  a  dripping  pan  two  hours ;  base  frequently. 

Mrs.  William  Stanton. 
BAKED  HAM  WITH  APPLES 
One  slice  of  ham,  yA  or  inch  thick,  put  in  baking  pan,  cover 
with  brown  sugar.  Stick  in  a  dozen  cloves.  Quarter  enough 
apples  to  fill  in  pan  around  the  ham,  and  sprinkle  them  with 
brown  sugar.  Add  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  then  bake 
about  40  minutes,  or  until  it  is  tender  and  well  done. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Jacobs. 

VEAL  LOAF 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  veal,  y2  lb.  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  6 
or  8  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  spice  with 
sage,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  make  in  a  loaf  and  put  in 
pan,  bake  three  hours  in  slow  oven.  Bake  with  cloth  under  and 
over  the  loaf,  with  water  in  pan.  Mrs.  L.  S.  Roberts. 

34 


BEEF  IN  ITALIAN  STYLE 

Two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1  lump  of  butter,  1  minced  onion 
V2  £reen  pepper,  1  clove  garlic;  cook  together;  add  2  pounds  of 
top  of  the  round  cut  small  and  browned;  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  simmer  slowly  for  2  hours.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Add  1  pint  pitted  ripe  olives  and  y2  can  of  mushrooms.  Serve 
surrounded  with  spaghetti.  Mrs.  Samuel  T.  Clover. 

HAMBURG  STEAK 
One  pound  ground  beef,  1  egg,  1  slice  bread  soaked  m  water 
squeezed  out,  1  cup  water.    Drop  by  spoonsful  and  fry  or  broil. 
H  Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 


Chicken 

"Do  you  not  know  that  cookery  has  brought 
More  aides  to  piety  than  aught  besides." 

ALABAMA  CHICKEN  WITH  CORN  FRITTERS 

Cut  young  chicken  as  for  frying,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  roll  in  flour.  Mince  one  small  onion  and  a  little  parsley  and 
put  into  your  double  roaster.  Place  chicken  in  pan  and  put  pieces 
of  butter  over  it,  add  two  cups  of  hot  water.  Roast  until  brown 
and  tender.  Remove  the  chicken  and  add  two  cups  of  cream  for 
the  gravy  and  serve  with  corn  fritters  from  the  following  receipt. 

Corn  Fritters:  Sift  together  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder  and  ji  teaspoon  salt;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice  and  %  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  corn  Beat 
well,  and  leave  standing  several  hours.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
deep  fat.  Fry  six  to  eight  minutes.  Drain  and  serve  hot.  Canned 
corn  may  be  used.  Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE 

Cut  up  the  chicken  (a  hen  is  the  best).  Place  in  the  casserole 
with  one  bunch  of  celery  cut  in  pieces,  one  bay  leaf,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender.  In 
a  separate  sauce  pan  make  a  cream  sauce  of  3  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  the  same  of  flour  and  add  the  liquid  off  the  chicken 
and  V/2  pints  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the 
chicken  in  the  casserole  and  let  cook  for  thirty  minutes  longer. 
It  will  take  about  three  hours  for  a  chicken  a  year  old. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 

CREAMED  RABBIT 

Dredge  the  rabbit  in  flour  seasoned  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt 
and  dash  of  paprika,  and  brown  it  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  par- 
tially fried  sliced  bacon.  Then  place  in  a  baking  pan,  fleshly  side 
up,  cover  with  the  strips  of  bacon  and  bacon  fat.  Add  y2  pint  boil- 
ing water,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
basting  frequently.  Now  pour  over  it  one  cup  sour  cream  and 
continue  to  baste,  baking  altogether  one  hour.  As  you  baste,  scrape 
sides  of  baking  dish,  and  serve  with  the  gravy  poured  over  the 
rabbit.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  tiny  carrots. 

Miss  Emma  F.  Standnng. 

35 


S.  Nordlinger  &  Sons 

Established  1869 

Gold  and  Silversmiths 
Art  Dealers 

631-638  South  Broadway 
Los  Angeles,  California 


B  B 

CREAMED  CHICKEN 

Cut  up  chicken  as  for  fricasseeing  and  boil  slowly  until  tender 
in  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burning.  When  done  take  out  and 
brown  in  butter.  Remove  to  hot  platter.  Heat  1  pint  cream  in 
the  pan  in  which  the  chickens  were  browned,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  thicken  with  a  rounded  tablespoon  of  flour.  Pour 
over  chicken.  Mrs.  James  Hetherington. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN 

Add  to  a  chicken  just  enough  hot  water  to  cover;  simmer 
until  meat  drops  from  bones;  remove  from  liquor  and  chop  both 
dark  and  white  meat ;  season  with  paprika,  salt,  *4  teaspoon  grated 
onion ;  simmer  liquor  down  to  half  pint ;  then  mix  with  chicken  and 
pack  into  a  loaf  pan;  place  weight  on  top  for  twelve  hours;  un- 
mold  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Mrs.  Annie  Abbott. 

CHICKEN  MOUSSE 

Scald  one  cup  of  milk,  beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  lightly,  add 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Cook  in  the  hot  liquid 
until  the  mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
package  of  gelatine,  softened  in  *4  CUP  of  cold  water.  Strain 
the  preparation  over  y2  cup  of  cooked  chicken  chopped  and  pound- 
ed in  a  mortar.  Stir  over  ice,  then  fold  over  it  one  cup  whipepd 
cream.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mold.  Serve  when  chilled  and 
frozen  with  lettuce,  or  tomatoes  and  lettuce.  French  or  Mayon- 
naise dressing  may  be  used.  Mrs.  George  E.  Waldo. 

36 


CHICKEN  SOUFFLfi 

One  and  one-half  cups  chicken,  1  cup  cream  %  cup  mush- 
room *  cup  chicken  soup,  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  cayenne 
4 TblefpooL  flour,  1  teaspoon  parsley,  *  cup  bread  crumbs,  3 

whites  of  egg,  3  egg  yolks.  .  .  .  mush_ 

Melt  butter,  ad  flour,  seasonings,  stock,  cream,  chicken,  mush 
rooms,  bread  crumbs.    Cook  ten  minutes,  add  egg  yogs  and^t 
and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  in  buttered 
^  dish  forty  minutes.    Serve  immedfa* ^without 
mUshroom  sauce.^  FQR  TURKEY 

For  a  large  turkey,  remove  the  crusts  from  two  loaves  of 
bread  and  put  through  a  wire  frying  basket.   To  these  crumbs  add 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee,  when  the  chicken  is 
stewed  tender,  and  the  gravy  thickened,  take  it  from  the  fire.  Take 
out  the  largest  bones  and  scrape  the  meat  from  the  neck  and  back 
bones  and  Low  the  bones  away ;  line  the  sides  of  a  pudding  dish 
with  a  rich  baking  powder  dough  a  quarter  of  an  mch  thick  put 
T  part  of  the  chicken,  a  few  lumps  of  butter,  pepper  and  sa  t  if 
needed,  and  some  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  add  the  rest  of  the 
chicken  and  season  as  before.    Pour  over  the  gravy  being  sure  to 
have  enough  to  fill  the  dish  and  cover  with  a  crust  a  quarter  of 
Lch  thick  with  a  hole  cut  in  center.    Brush  over  the  top  with 
Teaten  white  of  egg  and  bake  for  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Garnish  the  top  with  small  celery  ^-^^^ 

STEAMED  CHICKEN 

Cut  young  chicken  in  small  pieces  and  season  with  salt  pepper 
and  butter.  Place  in  a  roaster  and  add  about  1  inch  of  water. 
Then  cover  and  put  in  hot  oven  for  about  1  hour 
Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  ;  or  the  ch.cken  may  be 
dipped  lightly  in  flour  and  then  egg  batter  and  fried  »  hot  fat 
until  batter  is  done,  which  takes  a  very  few  minutes.  The  best 
egg  batter  is  made  by  whipping  the  whites  of  the  eggs  up  first, 
very  thoroughly,  then  adding  the  yolks.     Mrs.  Chas.  V.  Craig. 

ROAST  WILD  DUCK 

Place  in  each  duck  1  slice  bread  and  one  stock  of  celery. 
RoasTin  an  iron  skillet  which  has  been  well  buttered  Put  ducks 
£  ski  let  breast  down.  Roast  in  very  hot  oven  for  18  minutes  or 
W  t  Sucks  are  small.  Do  not  open  ove^whi.e  d^cks^  roast- 
ing.  37 


GODBER  &  GATES 

Successors  to  H.  H.  GODBER 

Real  Estate      —      Loans      —      Insurance      —  Investments 

72  N.  Raymond  Ave.,  Pasadena  Phone  Fair  Oaks  640 

WE  KNOW  HOW -TRY  US 

B  □  ========================== 

Sauces 

"What  is  sauce  for  the  goose  is  sauce  for  the  gander." 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  iy  lemons,  y2  pound  butter,  a  little  salt  and 
pinch  of  red  pepper.  Cook  eggs  in  double  boiler  with  y2  gill  of 
hot  water.  When  a  little  stiff  add  butter  slowly,  add  lemon,  salt 
and  pepper.    Serve  warm,  not  hot,  if  hot,  sauce  will  break. 

Chef  Taylor,  of  Hotel  Raymond. 

BERNAISE  SAUCE 

Three  tablespoons  water,  3  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  y 
onion,  yolks  4  aggs,  %  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  4  table- 
spoon butter.  Put  water,  vinegar  and  onion  in  small  saucepan  and 
heat  to  boiling  point.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  and  pour  on 
gradually  hot  liquid,  from  which  onion  has  been  removed;  then 
add  seasonings.  Place  sauce  pan  in  larger  sauce  pan,  contain- 
ing boiling  water,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
thickens  slightly,  then  add  butter  which  has  been  worked  until 
creamy,  one  tablespoon  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly  during  entire 
cooking.  Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

CREAM  OF  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Add  to  6  tablespoons  of  grated  horseradish  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
and  y2  teaspoon  of  salt ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  a  tablespoon  of 
good  vinegar,  and  then  fold  in  carefully  ^  of  a  cup  of  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  If  the  horseradish  is  already  in  vinegar 
omit  the  vinegar  and  press  the  horseradish  until  dry.  This  is  a  very 
nice  sauce  to  serve  with  cold  roast  beef  or  mutton,  or  with  hot  corn 
beef  or  a  boiled  tcngue.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Dice  and  brown  onion  in  plenty  of  butter  or  olive  oil,  add  y2 
cup  tomatoes  and  let  simmer.  Cooked  or  canned  peas  may  be 
added  to  this  tomato  sauce  and  served  as  a  vegetable.  Also  it 
may  be  used  with  one  egg  scrambled  in  it  to  spread  thinly  on  bread 
and  butter  sandwiches.  Take  sliced  onions,  tomatoes  and  summer 
squash  and  saute  in  plenty  of  butter  or  olive  oil.    Add  no  water. 

Mrs.  G.  Lavagnino. 

MINT  SAUCE 

One-half  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  fill  the  cup  almost  full 
of  vinegar.  Chop  leaves  of  mint  quite  fine  and  put  into  the  vine- 
gar. Use  sufficient  mint  to  make  the  sauce  quite  thick  using- 
spoon  to  serve  it.  Please  do  not  boil  this,  or  it  will  be  ruined.  Let 
stand  three  hours  before  using.         Mrs.  Thomas  McDougall.  - 

38 


SPANISH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Three  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  1#  dozen  large  red  peppers  1 
dozen  onions t  (good  sized),  1  teacup  sugar,  6  teaspoons  of  salt ,  6 
dozen  onions  US  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  6  teaspoons  of 

tl/upTof'  vinegar'  Chop  fine  and  boil  two  hours;  do 
not  strain.    Pint  cans  are  best  as  it  ^ 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

Measure  any  quantity  of  cranberries  after  they  are  carefully 
stemmed  andwayshqed  an/all  soft  or  brown ^bemes ;  remove^  Take 
i/  as  much  cane  sugar  as  berries,  and  Yi  as  much  water  as  sugai 
Scant  measure)  Put  all  in  a  granite  saucepan  and  when  they 
begin  to  bo  1  cover  closely  and  cook  ten  minutes  without  stirring 
Sove  the  scum  if  any,  and  turn  into  a^mold.  Tftgwdl  be 
firm  and  tender.        MUSRROOM  SAUCE 

Melt  ^  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  pan.  Season  with  salt  and 
oeooer  (black  and  red),  when  hot  add  mushrooms.  Cover  for  20 
Si  Test  with  fo\if  soft.    Add  1 

seasoning  if  ncce.ssary^Alex.  Ogg,  Flatbush,  N.  Y. 

Pare  one  cucumber ;  cut  lengthwise  in  quarters ;  scrape  out  and 
discard  the  seeds    Grate  and  squeeze  in  a  cloth  to  extract  as  much 

rs^ftftone  till  the  last  moment  or  J^j-Jj^ 

na.se  too  m»<*        n  FQR  ARXICHOKES 

Onions  and  paprika  rubbed  together,  add  chopped  mushrooms 
and  fomatoes  smothered  down.    Add  plain 

tlty*  SAUCE  a  la  TARTARE 

Into  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  mix  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped 
olives,  sour  pickles,  capers,  parsley  and^omoo,^ 

GINGER  SAUCE 

One  jar  of  Chinese  ginger.    Chop  the  root,  drain  the  syrup 
dilute  *A  wi'th  water,  flavor  with  lemon,  thicken  with  cornstarch 
and  boil  to  the  consistency  of  rich  cream.    Use  cold  with  marsh- 
mallow  pudding,  or  hot  with  steam  P^ding^^  ^  ^ 

Salads 

"To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for 
oil  miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt  and  a  mad  cap  to  stir 
the  ingredients  up  Ind  mix  them  well  together."-Spanish  Proverb. 

MAYONNAISE 

Two  egg  yolks,  %  teaspoon  mustard,  beat  and  gradually  add 
iy2  cups  olive  oil.  Add  lemon,  salt  and^pepper^o  taste.^ 

39 


CREAM  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

One-half  teaspoon  hustard,  yolk  6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  \y2 
glasses  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  y2  glass  lemon  juice,  20  light 
shakes  paprika.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks  and  beat  all 
thoroughly.  Add  oil  gradually.  Then  the  lemon  juice.  Beat  all 
to  a  cream,  and  heat  through  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  all  the 
time.    Dilute  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Arthur  H.  Woodward. 
BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 
Four  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  y2  cup  vine- 
gar, 1  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  dash  of  cayenne.  Melt  butter  in  a 
double  boiler,  add  flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  add  milk,  stir  and 
boil  up.  Beat  eggs,  salt  and  mustard;  add  vinegar  and  stir  into 
boiling  mixture.  Continue  stirring  until  it  thickens;  dilute  with 
whipped  cream.    This  is  fine  for  potato  salad. 

Mrs.  Annie  Abbott,  Ontaria,  Cal. 
SALAD  DRESSING 
One-half  cup  vinegar,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
lA  teaspoon  mustard,  y2  cup  thick  sour  cream.  Beat  together  last 
four  ingredients  and  add  to  vinegar  which  has  been  brought  to 
boiling  point.  Cook  to  consistency  of  thick  cream,  remove  from  fire 
and  add  pepper,  paprika  and  salt.  Add  sweet  whipped  cream  be- 
fore serving,  if  desired.        Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry,  Sierra  Madre,  Cal. 

CREAM  SALAE)  DRESSING 
One-half  tablespoon  salt,  y2  tablespoon  mustard,  ^  tablespoon 
sugar,  1  egg  slightly  beaten,  2y2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  yA  cup 
cream,  y  cup  vinegar. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  vinegar  very  slowly. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens ; 
strain  and  cool.  A  delicious  dressing  for  a  fruit  salad,  either  of 
different  fruits,  or  pears  only,  served  in  large  green  peppers. 

Mrs.  Howard  Huntington. 
CABBAGE  SLAW  DRSSING 
Two  eggs  beaten  together.    Two  teaspoons  flour,  2  teaspoons 
sugar  and  y2  teaspoon  salt  mixed  together,  y2  cup  vinegar,  1  cup 
milk,  mix  all  together  and  set  on  slow  fire.    Boil  till  thick. 

Miss  Annie  W.  Doolittle. 
RUSSIAN  SALAD  DRSSING 
Beat       cup  Roquefort  cheese  to  a  creamy  mass.    Beat  in  J£ 
cup  chili  sauce,  %  teaspoon  each  salt  and  paprika,  1  teaspoon  each 
chopped  pimiento  and  green  pepper.    Gradually  beat  the  mixture 
into  a  cup  of  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  Stevens  Halsted. 

CUCUMBER  JELLY 
Four  large  cucumbers.  Remove  outside  skin;  cut  into  strips 
and  stew  in  1  quart  water,  with  1  slice  onion,  a  salt  spoon  of  salt  and 
a  little  white  pepper.  When  cucumbers  become  soft,  add  y2  box 
gelatine  that  has  been  soaking  in  a  small  cup  of  cold  water  and  stir 
until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Strain,  and  when  cold  and  almost  ready 
to  set,  peel  and  slice  thin  1  cucumber  and  line  a  plain  mold  with  the 
slices.   Turn  in  liquid  jelly  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 

40 


TROY  LAUNDRY  CO. 

753-751  So.  FAIR  OAKS  AVE. 

You  are  invited  to  thoroughly  inspect  our  Laundry,  which  is  one 
of  the  lightest  and  most  sanitary  plants  in  the  west. 

Our  equipment  and  methods  are  up-to-date;  as  to  quality  of  our 
work  we  invite  comparison  with  the  kind  you  have  been  getting. 

Call  Colorado  146  14  Automobiles  at  Your  Service 

B  B 

THOUSAND  ISLE  SAUCE 

One  chopped  green  pepper,  1  chopped  hard  boiled  egg,  y2 
chopped  onion,  2  large  tablespoons  of  Heinze  chili  sauce.  Stir  into 
stiff  mayonnaise  dressing.  Miss  Edith  G.  Rowland. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 
One  cup  mayonnaise,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  yA  teaspoon  pa- 
prika, 1  tablespoon  chopped  olives,  1  tablespoon  chopped  pimien- 
toes,  1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper,  1  cooked  yolk  sifted,  1 
tablespoon  walnut  catsup,  y2  cup  chili  sauce. 

Mrs.  Allen  G.  Murphy. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Yolks  3  eggs,  3  scant  tablespoons  vinegar,  juice  of  2  lemons, 
3  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  mustard,  1  tea- 
spoon butter,  cook  in  double  boiler;  when  ready  to  use  add  1  cup 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Carrie  L.  Goodrich. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRSSING 

Thin  mayonnaise  with  French  dressing,  and  add  chili  sauce, 
chopped  olives,  chopped  pickles  and  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Serve  on  hearts  of  lettuce.  Mrs.  Charles  Baxter. 

ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  DRSSING 

Mix  together  one  teaspoon  Roquefort  cheese  and  the  yolks  of 
two  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  1-3  teaspoon  paprika,  3  tablespoons 
salad  oil,  3  tablespoons  white  vinegar  (garlic  flavored),  y2  tea- 
spoon salt;  chop  finely  the  hard  boiled  whites  of  two  eggs;  add 
to  mixture ;  serve  on  lettuce.  Mrs.  Fred  Chaffee  Nash. 

COLE-SLAW 

Shave  cabbage  very  thin  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Whip  enough  cream  for  a  dresing — not  thick  but  frothy;  add 
enough  vinegar  (very  slowly)  to  make  cream  a  little  tart  and  also 
a  dash  of  salt.    Serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Manton,  Akron,  Ohio. 
CHEESE  SALAD 
Make  nests  of  shredded  lettuce.    In  each  nest  put  two  cheese 
balls  made  as  follows. 

To  one  package  of  neufchatel  cheese,  add  y2  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts  and  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  pimientoes.  Roll  into  balls 
and  serve  with  French  dressing.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Mothershead. 

41 


COURTEOUS  SERVICE 


We  invite  you  to  test  the  service  of 
this  "courteous"  bank. 

We  want  you  to  feel  'at  home*  here. 
Every  act  of  teller  or  officer  is  to 
make  you  feel  that  "YOUR"  account 
is  appreciated. 

Public  telephones  and  waiting  room. 


c 


ALIFORNIA 

SA  VINGS 

BANK 


Spring  and  Fourth  Sts.  LOS  ANGELES 
=  E  B 


SALAD 

One  neufchatel  cheese  mashed  smooth  and  finely  chopped  nuts 
and  olives  added.  Stuff  pimientoes  with  the  above.  Put  on  ice, 
when  ready  to  serve  cut  in  round  slices  and  serve  on  lettuce  with 
salad  dressing.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Jacobs. 

BOUQUET  SALAD 

One  large  head  crisp  lettuce  cut  in  ribbons,  8  small  tomatoes 
peeled  and  very  cold.  Arrange  on  a  round  platter  with  each  tomato 
placed  on  a  crisp  leaf  of  lettuce  using  the  ribbon  lettuce  in  center 
and  around  tomatoes  with  strips  of  cold  crisp  broiled  bacon  added 
to  it.  Garnish  on  top  with  strips  of  pimientoes.  Arrange  cream 
cheese  balls  around  salad.  Put  in  refrigerator  to  get  very  cold. 
Make  a  French  dressing,  using  1  cup  oil,  %  cup  vinegar,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  paprika  and  salt,  dash  of  tabasco  and  chop  fine ;  1  green  bell 
pepper  and  4  small  onions.  Put  on  ice  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour 
over  salad. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Libby. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 

One  can  pineapple  cut  fine,  1  box  imported  marshmallows 
cut  fine,  1  bottle  of  whipped  cream,  1  small  teaspoon  of  mustard  in 
the  cream.  Mix  in  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  with  whipped  cream.  Add 
more  sugar  if  preferred.  Whip  the  cream  stiff  and  mix  with  all  of 
ingredients.  Just  before  serving  put  a  cherry  on  top. 

Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 
42 


CHEESE  BALLS 

Two  beaten  whites  of  egg;  1  pinch  of  salt;  2  shakes  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Stir  enough  grated  cheese  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs  to  make  a  paste  thick  enough  to  roll  into  balls  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut;  add  salt  and  cayenne.  Drop  into  deep  fat  and 
fry  delicate  brown ;  serve  hot  with  salad.    Good  cold  for  picnics. 

Mrs.  Albert  E.  Edwards. 

BOLIVIA  SALAD 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  y2  inch  cubes;  there  should  be  \y2 
cups.  Add  3  hard  boiled  eggs  finely  chopped,  \y2  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  pimiento,  and  y2  tablespoon  chopped  chives.  Pour  over 
cream  dressing  or  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  Samuel  S.  Hinds. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

One  pint  chopped  apples,  1  orange  chopped  fine,  1  banana, 
y2  cup  walnuts  chopped,  12  or  15  candied  cherries  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

Dressing:  One-half  teaspoon  butter,  y2  teaspoon  mustard,  y 
teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg,  4  tablespoons  lemon  or 
vinegar,  ^4  cup  whipped  cream. 

Melt  butter,  add  mustard,  sugar,  salt  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten, 
and  lemon  juice.    Cook  in  double  boiler  till  it  thickens;  add  white 
of  egg  stiffly  beaten,  chill,  and  add  whipped  cream  just  before  serv- 
ing.  Mix  dressing  with  fruit.  Mrs.  Rose  Fehr  Gregg. 
FROZEN  COMBINATION  SALAD 

One  large  cucumber  cut  in  small  cubes,  1  green  pepper  chopped 
fine,  1  large  tomato  chopped,  1  stalk  of  celery  cut  fine,  1  pimiento 
chopped ;  drain  all  the  vegetables.  Then  mix  with  plenty  of  mayon- 
naise. Put  in  a  melon  mold.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hour. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Rosa  Bell. 

TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 

Heat  1  can  of  tomatoes,  with  a  small  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  a 
few  cloves  and  whole  peppers,  salt  to  taste,  and  y2  cup  of  soup 
stock.  Strain  and  add  a  scant  half  box  of  gelatine  which  has  been 
dissolved  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water  and  pour  in  individual  molds. 
When  firm  turn  each  out  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with  mayon- 
naise. Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 
AVOCADO  (ALLIGATOR  PEAR)  SALADS 

1.  Peel  the  fruit,  remove  the  1  large  seed,  and  cut  the  pulp  in 
cubes.    Serve  on  hearts  of  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

2.  Serve  as  above,  with  equal  quantity  of  salmon,  lobster,  po- 
tato or  fruit  of  any  kind. 

The  Avocado  blends  flavors  of  fruits  and  nuts  into  a  melting 
delicious  salad.  Season  with  salt,  paprika  and  lemon  juice  and  use 
as  filling  for  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  Parker  Earle. 
CHEESE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Mix  a  neufchatel  cheese  with  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  chopped 
nuts  and  a  tablespoon  of  sherry.  Place  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  and  spread  on  a  thick  layer  of  the  cheese.  Over  this 
place  another  slice  of  pineapple.  In  the  center  put  a  small  mound 
.of  the  cheese  with  a  half  a  nut  on  top.    Serve  with  fresh  dressing. 

Miss  Mildred  Shlaudeman. 

43 


FRUIT  SALAD 

Three  oranges,  3  bananas,  5  slices  canned  pineapple,  1  grape 
fruit.  Peel  and  seed  fruit  discarding  tough  portions ;  cut  into  small 
cubes.  Put  in  covered  earthenware  dish  in  cold  place.  When 
ready  to  serve  put  about  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  fruit  on  crisp 
white  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  on  a  rich  cream  dressing.  Then 
sprinkle  top  with  English  walnuts  that  have  been  run  through  food 
chopper.  Mrs.  Burton  G.  Bloom. 

SWEET  BREAD  SALAD 

Three  pounds  of  sweet  bread,  2  heads  of  the  celery  hearts  cut 
fine,  2  pounds  of  white  grapes  skinned  and  seeded,  1  can  of  mush- 
rooms, French,  weighing  1  pound.  ■ 

Boil  the  sweet  breads,  cool  and  separate  by  breaking  them 
apart.  Put  all  the  ingredients  together  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Serve  on  shredded  lettuce.   This  will  serve  for  twelve. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Bryant. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Use  canned  pineapple;  y2  box  Knox  gelatine,  y2  cup  cold 
water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1-3  cup  vinegar,  or  juice  of  two  lemons, 
2  cups  hot  water.  You  can  use  less  water  and  use  juice  of  pine- 
apple instead.  1  heaping  cup  chopped  pineapple,  1  heaping  cup 
chopped  cucumbers,  y2  cup  sugar.  Color  with  a  few  drops  leaf 
green  coloring.  Let  gelatine  begin  to  thicken  before  adding  fruit 
and  cucumber.  Pour  in  large  mold  or  individual  molds  and  serve 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.    Put  shredded  lettuce  around  it. 

Mrs.  Fred  Elmer  Wilcox, 
drop  in  boiling  fat.  MHtRR0NBN&&&lt&Ni 
JELLIED  GRAPE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Soak  1  envelope  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Heat  to  a 
boil  the  juice  from  a  large  can  of  pineapple.  Pour  this  over  the 
gelatine;  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  1  pound  of  seeded 
and  peeled  white  grapes  and  4  slices  of  pineapple  diced.  Be  sure 
to  have  the  molds  wet.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  to  which  has  been 
added  some  sugar  and  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

INDIAN  SALAD 

Wipe  and  peel  medium  sized  tomatoes.  Scoop  out  centers, 
sprinkle  inside  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly 
chilled.  Insert  in  each  from  six  to  eight  short  stalks  of  cold  boiled 
asparagus.  Put  over  asparagus  resting  on  rims  of  tomato,  jncn 
rings  cut  from  a  cold  boiled  beet.  Over  beet  rings  arrange  %  inch 
rings  cut  from  green  pepper,  and  over  green  pepper  rings,  red  pep- 
per rings.  Arrange  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Indian 
dressing. 

Indian  Dressing:  Yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  y2  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  >4  teaspoon  paprika,  few  grains 
cayenne,  few  grains  white  pepper,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar,  y2  cup  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  red  pepper 
finely  chopped,  1  tablespoon  green  pepper  finely  chopped,  1  table- 
spoon pickled  beets  cut  in  small  cubes,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chivets.  Rub  bowl  with  two 
cloves  of  garlic.  Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

44 


A.  L.  RYDER,  Inc. 

AUTOMOBILE  SUPPLIES 

LOCOMOBILE     -     MITCHELL     -  HUPMOBILE 

160  E.  Colorado,       -      -      -  PASADENA 

n  b 

ARTICHOKE  SALAD 

Artichoke  must  be  carefully  cooked  and  not  be  left  long  in  the 
water,  as  they  turn  black.  Put  each  artichoke  in  a  pan  of  vinegar 
and  water  to  preserve  its  color;  put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  until 
tender.  Take  the  hearts  and  put  a  teaspoon  of  Russian  Caviar  into 
each  heart,  put  a  little  lemon  juice  over  all. 

Mrs.  Fred  Chaffee  Nash. 

CARROT  SALAD 

Peel  and  grate  6  large  carrots ;  then  dice  3  Bellefleur  apples ; 
season  with  little  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  with  y2  cup  of  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Mrs-  Richard  H.  Alexander. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 
One  quart  cream  (pepper,  salt  and  mustard).    Let  it  just  come 
to  a  boil.   Pour  in  yA  lb.  American  cheese  and  take  off  immediately. 
Let  stand  over  night.    Roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  egg  and  flour  and 

PERFECTION  SALAD 
One  envelope  gelatine,  y2  cup  water,  1-3  cup  vinegar,  1  pint 
boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage; 
juice  of  1  lemon,  y2  cup  sugar,  2  cups  diced  celery,  yA  can  sweet 
red  peppers  finely  cut.  Soak  gelatine  ,  add  vinegar ,  lemon  ,  water , 
*ugar  and  salt.   When  it  begins  to  set  add  other  ingredients. 

Miss  Nancy  Kayser. 
CREAM  CHEESE  WITH  PAPRIKA 
Two  rolls  cream  cheese,  1  teaspoon  paprika,  1  teaspoon  walnut 
catsup,  2  teaspoons  melted  butter,  1  small  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon chives  chopped  fine.    Rub  all  together  until  smooth,  add- 
ing the  chives  last.    Serve  in  balls  like  butter  balls  with  salad. 

Mrs.  Edward  F.  Robbins. 
CHICKEN  ASPIC  SALAD 
Chop  very  fine  a  boiled  chicken ;  put  back  bones  with  a  little 
of  the  water  that  was  used  in  boiling  chicken ;  soak  J4  package  of 
gelatine,  when  dissolved  add  \y2  cup  of  chicken  liquor.    Put  the 
chicken  in  a  flat  mold  moisten  quite  thoroughly  with  liquor. 

Mrs.  William  S.  McCay. 
OYSTER  SALAD 
Drain  1  can  of  cove  oysters  and  cut  them  in  3  pieces,  then  mix 
oysters  with  cracker  crumbs,  celery,  chopped  pickles  and  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Dressing  for  above  salad  is :  1  cup  of  milk  heated ;  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  added 
to  hot  milk.  Let  it  cook  in  double  boiler  until  you  beat  3  eggs 
well  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Then  mix  with  hot  milk  and  stir  a  moment 
and  remove  from  the  fire.    When  cool  add  to  oysters. 

Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 
45 


ASPARAGUS  TIPS  AND  GRAPE  FRUIT. 

Take  out  grape  fruit  in  as  large  sections  as  possible;  cover 
well  with  sugar  and  let  stand  on  ice.  Place  on  shredded  lettuce 
with'  afew  asparagus  tips  on  one  side.  Pour  a  little  French  dress- 
ing over  both  and  serve  with  mayonnaise.        Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

FISH  SALAD 

Pick  apart  a  pound  of  well  boiled  halibut,  set  on  ice  while  you 
make  a  good  mayonnaise  which  in  turn  must  go  on  ice.  Have 
ready  1-3  as  much  celery  as  you  have  halibut;  cut  the  celery  into 
half  inch  lengths,  chop  fine  and  add  a  large  white  onion.  Add 
this  to  the  halibut,  and  mix  together  in  a  ball.  Sprinkle  with 
cayenne  and  salt  and  stir  lightly  into  a  cup  of  mayonnaise.  Now 
line  a  platter  with  crisp  lettuce ;  arrange  the  salad  within  this,  and 
garnish  generously  with  sliced  tomatoes,  cucumbers  and  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 

CHEESE  AND  BAR-LE-DUC  SALAD 

Rub  into  one  Neufchatel  cheese  2  teaspoons  of  cream,  ]/2  glass 
of  bar-le-duc  (currant),  1  dash  of  salt,  and  pepper.  Make  a  smooth 
paste  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Later  make  into  balls  and  roll  in 
chopped  pecan  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  the  other  half 
of  the  glass  of  bar-le-duc  put  around  the  balls,  and  pour  French 
dressing  over  all.  For  variety  cheese  balls  can  be  served  on  a 
slice  of  orange  or  pineapple.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Roberts. 

TOMATO  JELLY 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  gelatine,  y2  cup  cold  water;  Zy2 
cups  tomatoes,  y2  onion,  stalk  celery,  bay  leaf,  2  cloves,  a  few 
grains  cayenne,  2  tablespoons  Tarragon  vinegar.  Soften  gelatine 
5  minutes  in  the  cold  water,  cook  together  the  other  ingredients, 
except  the  vinegar,  10  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  softened  gelatine  and 
stir  until  dissolved ,  strain  -  pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  set  on  ice 
to  harden.  Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 

MINT  JULEP  a  la  CHINO 

One  tablespoon  of  water,  1  dessert  spoon  bar  sugar,  melted,  3 
tablespoons  whiskey,  rye  or  Bourbon,  if  necessary  some  more  and 
then  few  sticks  of  mint.  Stir  up,  then  quick  fill  up  with  minced  ice. 
Stick  mint,  sprinkle  bar  sugar  to  frost. 

Forest  Nishibayashi,  Rancho  Santa  Ana  del  Chino. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  ROLLS  FOR  SALAD 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with  a  paste  of  grated 
cheese  mixed  with  cream  and  a  little  pepper.  Roll  up,  fasten  with 
a  tooth  pick;  dip  in  melted  butter  and  toast  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

JELLIED  CABBAGE  SALAD 

Soak  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water  and  dissolve 
in  \y2  cups  of  boiling  water.  When  cool,  add  3  cups  cabbage  and 
2  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  sugar, 

46 


THE  BUCKEYE  SHOP 

When  you  hunger  for  a  new  idea  to  feed  your  appetite  for  beauty  in 
ART  NEEDLE  WORK  and  INFANTS'  WEAR  — Come  to  us! 

159  E.  Colorado  Street,  Pasadena. 

===============  B  B 

cup  lemon  juice,  y>  cup  vinegar.  Mix  together  thoroughly  and 
turn  into  brick  mold  or  bread  pan.  When  firm  cut  into  two  inch 
cubes.  Put  figure  cut  from  slice  of  cooked  beet  on  top  and  serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  .Mrs.  Harry  Gray. 

CAMPESTRIS  SALAD 

Mash  a  5c  Neufchatel  cheese,  season  with  %  teaspoon  salt  and 
}i  teaspoon  paprika  and  moisten  with  y>  tablespoon  French  dress- 
ing. Shape  to  represent  mushroom  caps  and  stems,  roll  in  finely- 
chopped  pecan  nuts,  put  through  a  press  strainer  and  put  caps  on 
stems.  Place  on  thin  unsweetened  wafer  crackers  around  basket 
(made  from  the  skin  of  an  orange),  filled  with  red  currant  bar-le-duc 
and  garnish  with  water  cress.   Pass  with  dressed  lettuce. 

Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

One  can  white  cherries  (pitted),  2  pounds  peeled  and  seeded 
white  grapes,  2  dozen  Maraschino  cherries,  1  can  chopped  pineapple, 
6  oranges,  sugar  to  taste.  Soak  4  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  a  little 
water,  add  the  fruit  juice,  then  the  fruit.  Put  in  baking  powder 
can.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  5  hours.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  any 
dressing  preferred.  Mrs.  Harry  Gray. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Remove  sections  of  grape  fruit  and  oranges  without  skin. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cut  pineapple  and  marshmallow  in  small 
pieces.    Chop  some  nut  meats.   Drain  and  mix  well. 

Dressing:  Two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  3  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  4-1/2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick,  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  a  shake  of  celery 
salt.  When  cool  add  24  cup  whipped  cream,  %  cup  powdered  sugar 
and  2  or  3  drops  vanilla.  Combine  mixtures  when  ready  to  serve. 
Add  marshmallows  last.  Mrs.  Edwin  F.  Hill. 

REERNCKEN  CAKE 
(Without  Four.) 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  y2  pound  of  sugar,  9  eggs,  2  squares 
of  Baker's  chocolate,  y2  pound  broken  nut  meats,  4  drops  of  almond 
or  vanilla  extract.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
one  at  a  time  and  beat  for  1  hour.  Add  melted  chocolate,  nuts  and 
flavoring.  Then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  very  slowly.  Beat  15 
minutes.   Bake  y2  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Frosting:  Two  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  y2  cup  powdered 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  water.    Cook  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  Alexander  A.  Nottmeyer. 
47 


BEUHRING 

FOREIGN  and  DOMESTIC  MILLINERY 

174  East  Colorado  Street 
PASADENA,  CAL. 
B  B 

Egg  and  Cheese  Dishes 

"O !  egg  within  thy  oval  shell 
What  palate  tickling  joys  do  dwell!" 

EGG  TIMBALES 

Three  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  juice  of  onion,  1  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  paprika,  salt.  Put  together  like  baked  custard  and  in  in- 
dividual molds.    Serve  with  tomato  or  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Susie  M.  Hamilton. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

Hard  boil  6  eggs  and  slice  in  rings;  in  the  bottom  of  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  place  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  one 
of  eggs.  Now  make  a  sauce  of  4  yolks,  */2  cup  of  milk  with 
a  little  grated  cheese,  a  lump  of  butter  and  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  white  pepper.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  pour  over  each 
alternate  layer  of  eggs  and  bread  crumbs  in  the  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  fine  bread  crumbs  dropped  in  melted 
butter.    Bake  about  10  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Wood. 

EGG  CUTLETS 

Three  eggs  boiled  20  minutes ,  1  cup  milk  warmed ,  2  heaping 
tablespoons  flour ,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter ,  1  tablespoon  chop- 
ped parsley  y  1  teaspoon  salt ,  %  teaspoon  pepper ,  y2  teaspoon  onion 
juice.  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour,  milk,  salt,  pepper, 
parsley  and  onion  juice ;  cook  until  quite  thick  and  smooth ;  rubbing 
out  all  lumps.  Cut  eggs  into  pieces  about  size  of  finger  tip,  and 
stir  in ;  spread  on  platter  to  cool.  Form  into  cutlets,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs  and  fry  in  rather  deep  fat.  Serve  with  cream  sauce  and 
green  peas.  This  receipt  makes  six  cutlets. 
5        F  Mrs.  J.  B.  Durand. 

EGGS  IN  TOMATOES 

Take  good-sized  raw  tomatoes ;  cut  out  enough  center  to  make 
a  hole  large  enough  to  hold  a  raw  egg.  Put  butter  on  top,  and 
cheese  if  liked.  Put  in  oven  and  cook  until  eggs  are  set.  Cover 
each  tomato  with  a  rich  cream  sauce.       Miss  Anne  Peterson. 

SWISS  FONDUE 

Cover  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  with  1  pint  of  milk  and  let 
it  stand  15  minutes.  Beat  2  eggs,  without  separating;  add  them 
to  the  milk  and  bread ;  add  a  y2  pound  of  chopped  cheese ;  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt ;  a  dash  of  cayenne ;  a  saltspoon  of  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoon  of  water,  and  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter. 
Beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  a  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  a  delicate  brown.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

48 


EGGS  WITH  NUTS  .  . 

Rni1  a  sufficient  number  of  eggs  45  minutes.   Cool  m  ice  water, 

and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  deep  baihngjat.  R  ^ 

CHEESE  SOUFFLfi  ^  ,  . 

Pnt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  double  boiler ;  when  melted  stir 

oaorika  When  this  all  melts  smooth,  take  off  the  fire  and  stir 
fn  3  egg  yolks,  then  beat  the  3  whites  and  stir  m  lightly ,  put  in 
pan  and  bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.^  ^  R 

EGG  TIMBALES 

4P  So^^araiini  the  whites  -n^^"**^ 

bttfe'imbrmolds.  ^00^  ^anTuUnded  ?by  hot  water 
un  1  firm  Turn  from  molds  and  serve  with  tomato  or  other  sauce, 
until  hrm.    i  urn  ^  Malcolm  J.  MacLeod,  New  York. 

EGGS  CREOLE  ..    .  n 

In  cooking  the  rice  for  dinner  boil  sufficient  to  put  aside  two 
cupfuls    For fupper  put  on  half  a  dozen  eggs  to  hard  boil  for  half 

sfe :Lr&sr  ^ 2=1;  %«f  « '4- 

colander  over  boiling  water  till  steaming  hot.  Shell  the  eggs, 
Quarter  them,  arrang?  on  a  hot  platter, 

of  the  rice,  pour  the  sauce  in  the  center  and  sP™kJf^^Ped 
parsley. 

CHEESE  PUFF 

Rub  3  level  tablespoons  of  flour  and  2  of  butter  together  in 
a  saucepan  add  *  A  A  stir  over  the  fire  until  you  hav  a 
smooth  sauce  and  add  hastily  34  lb-  of  grated  cheese,  lake 
rom  the  fire  drop  in  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  *  teaspoon  salt  and 
iTsh ^f  cae;enneP;  mix  thoroughly  fold  in  the  well-beaten .  whites 
of  the  eggs,  turn  into  baking  dish  a,  ^^ 
minutes. 

EGGS  IN  ROLLS 

Take  some  round  bread  biscuits,  cut  the  top  off  and  remove 
the  crumb.  Butter  it  well  inside  and  grate  cheese  in  to  it  then 
drop  in  a  raw  egg,  put  some  butter  on  top  and  some  grated  cheese, 
a  little  salt.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  th^chee^rowns^ 

49 


SAVORY  EGGS 

Dissolve  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  very  slowly  stirring  all  the  time  in  order 
to  prevent  the  flour  from  caking.  Pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  simmer  gently  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes.  Pour  into  a  flat  baking  dish,  break  in  two  or  three  eggs 
as  for  poaching,  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Mary  Greathouse. 

EGG  SOUFFLE 
Two  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon 
butter  creamed  together.   Add  yA  cup  of  milk,  add  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites.   Bake  in  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  S.  Hazard  Halsted. 
EAST  INDIAN  EGGS 
One  small  onion  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  6 
eggs,  5  ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  cream. 
Fry  the  onion  golden  brown  in  1  ounce  of  butter.  Stir  in  the  curry 
powder.  Stir  and  set  aside.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl;  beat 
until  smooth.  Add  the  cream.  Melt  4  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  pour  in  the  eggs  and  cream,  then  the  onion  and  curry.  Stir 
and  scrape  from  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan  until  as  thick  as  batter. 
Remove  from  the  fire  before  the  egg  hardens  too  much,  and  con- 
tinue to  stir  for  a  few  moments.  Serve  very  hot  on  rounds  of  but- 
tered toast.    Boiled  rice  should  be  served  at  the  same  time. 

Miss  Josephine  Ludovici. 


Vegetables 


Give  me  neither  poverty  nor  riches;  feed  me  with  food  con- 
venient for  me. — Proverbs. 

STUFFED   EGG  PLANT 

Cook  egg  plant  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Cut  a  slice  from  top  and  with  a  spoon  remove  pulp,  taking  care 
not  to  work  too  closely  to  skin.  Chop  pulp,  and  add  1  cup  soft 
stale  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  chopped  meat.  Melt  2  tablespoons 
butter,  add  y2  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Add  to  chopped  pulp  bread  and  meat,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and,  if  necessary,  moisten  with  a  little  stock  or  water. 
Cook  five  minutes,  cool  slightly  and  add  one  beaten  egg.  Refill 
egg  plant,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  twenty-five 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

BEANS 

One  pint  of  pink  beans.  Boil  10  minutes  in  soda  water,  pour 
off  soda  water,  then  boil  them  in  strong  salt  water  10  minutes 
more.  Pour  off  salt  water.  One  can  tomatoes  strained,  a  little 
onion,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  little  green  pepper.  Boil  till  tender,  then 
put  in  baking  pan.  When  in  baking  pan  put  1  tablespoon  of 
molasses,  about  teaspoon  and  a  half  of  mustard  and  one-half  cup 
of  milk  or  cream.    Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Shepp. 

50 


OLD  VIRGINIA  CREAMED  TOMATOES 

Select  firm,  small  tomatoes,  dip  one  by  one  in  water  kept 
boiling,  remove  skins  without  breaking  the  fruit,  cut  out  hard  core 
at  stem  end.  Place  them  close  together  with  cut  sides  up,  in  a 
stew  pan,  in  which  has  been  spread  about  y2  ounce  butter.  Set 
this  on  stove  and  keep  at  heat  just  below  "frying  point."  Into 
cut  places  of  each  tomato  press  a  teaspoon  of  fine  dry  bread 
crumbs  containing  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Over  all  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Continue  to  cook  slowly  until  tomatoes 
show  signs  of  breaking,  or  about  15  minutes;  then  pour  in  about 
a  cup  or  more  of  rich  cream  (milk  will  not  do)  and  begin  to  re- 
move tomatoes  with  a  spoon  to  a  hot  vegetable  dish.  By  the  time 
they  are  all  taken  out  the  cream  will  have  simmered,  becoming  a 
little  thick  and  pink.    Pour  this  over  tomatoes  in  dish. 

Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES 

Six  uniform  sized  tomatoes,  cut  circle  from  blossom  end, 
scoop  out  the  center  and  chop  that  which  is  taken  out  with  the 
following:  1  tea  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  1  tea  cup  chopped  celery, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill  the  tomatoes 
and  bake  in  a  medium  oven  one-half  hour.      Mrs.  Mary  Green. 

SPANISH  FRIED  TOMATOES 

Cut  eight  or  ten  tomatoes  in  thin  slices,  drop  in  hot  fat  (half 
lard  and  half  butter).  When  frying  add  chopped  chili  and  3 
tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  salt,  pepper  or  paprika.  When  done 
add  y2  cup  milk  and  thicken  a  little.  Mrs.  Chas.  V.  Craig. 

CORN  AND  TOMATO  AU  GRATIN 

Take  1  can  of  corn,  y2  can  of  tomatoes,  2  eggs,  well-beaten,  y2 
cupful  cracker  crumbs,  %  lb.  of  Swiss  cheese  (grated)  ;  beat  up  well 
together.  Put  in  well  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  more 
cracker  crumbs,  and  a  little  cheese,  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Bake 
about  y2  hour  in  moderate  oven.   Also  good  in  ramekins. 

Mrs.  Elsinore  Machris. 

BROILED  TOMATOES  AND  CREAM 

Slice  two  medium-sized  tomatoes  for  each  person.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  sprinkle  of  salt  on  each  slice.  Broil  in 
pan.  When  browned  well  on  both  sides,  remove  the  slices  and 
add  equal  parts  of  cream  to  the  juice  left  in  the  pan.  Let  this 
come  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly,  then  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Hahn. 
TO   COOK  TOMATOES 
Two  cans  of  tomatoes,  4  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  4  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  y2 
onion  chopped  fine  (if  desired)  ;  cook  slowly  for  four  or  five  hours. 

Miss  Julia  F.  Nichols. 
BAKED  EGG  PLANT 
One  medium-sized  egg  plant,  cup  coarse  cracker  crumbs,  1 
egg,  tablespoon  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil 
egg  plant  tender,  remove  skin,  beat  smooth  with  potato  masher, 
add  beaten  egg,  butter,  seasoning  and  ^4  CUP  °f  crumbs;  turn 
into  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  rest  of  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  y2  hour  in  hot  oven.     Miss  Harriet  W.  Culin. 

51 


 for  Good  Cooking,  Pure  Spices  are  Necessary 

WE  CARRY  A  FULL  LINE  OF  SQU1BBS  SPICES 
ALSO  SQU1BBS  BAKING  POWDER 
BRADDOCK'S  PHARMACY 
237  E.  Colorado  St.  both  phones  421  Pasadena,  Cal. 

n  B 

STUFFED  BAKED  CUCUMBERS 

Take  four  medium-sized  cucumbers  and  parboil  about  twenty 
minutes.  Cut  in  half  lengthwise,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
shells,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Put  this  into  a  bowl  with  one- 
quarter  the  amount  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  one  onion  which 
has  been  chopped  fine  and  browned.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
paprika  and  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Mix  all  well  together 
then  fill  the  shells  and  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  dropped  in  melted 
butter  on  top  of  each.  Put  a  little  hot  water  in  the  pan  and  bake 
half  an  hour.    Use  an  ordinary  bake  pan. 

Chayotes  are  very  fine  cooked  in  the  same  way  and  may  be 
stuffed  with  shrimp,  which  should  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces.  Use 
less  bread  crumbs.  Parboil  chayotes  about  an  hour,  or  more,  until 
tender.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Wood. 

PEA  SOUFFLE 

Drain  a  can  of  peas,  press  through  a  sieve,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  melted,  3  tablespoons  of  cream,  y2  teaspoon  of  sugar,  6 
drops  onion  juice,  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
Beat  thoroughly,  fold  in  the  beaten  whites,  half  fill  small  buttered 
cups,  stand  in  a  baking  pan  surrounded  with  hot  water  and  bake 
about  fifteen  minutes.    Unmold  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Place  four  solid  tomatoes,  cut  in  half,  on  a  platter.  On  each 
put  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  some  black  pepper,  salt,  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Have  skillet  hot  with  enough  drippings  to  keep  the  toma- 
toes from  burning.  Place  the  skin  side  down  and  let  them  cook 
slowly.  When  both  sides  are  brown,  put  on  platter.  Add  a  little 
more  flour  in  the  skillet  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  cream  gravy. 

Mrs.  Emily  D.  Kennedy. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

Cut  corn  from  cob.  To  every  cup  of  corn  add  one  beaten  egg. 
Drop  on  gridiron  that  is  well  buttered  and  fry  like  pancakes. 

Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 

CORN  PUDDING 

Three  eggs,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  salt,  1  cup  milk,  1  can  of  corn, 
or  fresh  corn.  Put  in  greased  pan,  dot  butter  on  top  and  bake 
in  pan  of  hot  water.  Mrs.  George  C.  Sharp. 

STUFFED  POTATOES 

Bake  potatoes  of  equal  size  (slowly).  When  done  and  still 
hot,  cut  off  a  small  piece  from  the  end  of  each  potato,  scoop  out 
the  inside,  mash,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  cream  and  plenty 
of  butter.  Fill  the  potato  with  the  mixture,  return  to  the  oven 
and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.         Mrs.  Richard  H.  Alexander. 

52 


ESCALLOPED  ONIONS 

minutes.  ^AT.nAri7 

RED  CABBAGE 

10  minutes  then  stir  in  a  level  t abtapo^ *  nou  vadan  much 
spoonsful  of  vinegar     Boil  up,  and  Mr ve^  ^  q{ 

Ses^FlnishX  same.6    Mrs.  Erskine  H.  letter,  Toledo,  O. 
PP  CREAMED  CUCUMBER 

Take  cucumbers  which .have .been  pared  cutm  p*ces  an4 

Paprika.  SPANISH  RICE 

One  tablespoon  (half  butter  and JgU [^Jt^firtS 
iron  frying  pan;  1*  cups        rice;  sbr  till  evenly  brow 

baking  dish  and  brown  on  top.^  ^  Lqs  Angeks 

BAKED  BEANS  . 

SJoff LTbe  wet  oPr  soupy,  but  baked  almost  dry.  ^  ^ 

RICE  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

COVe  f  brown  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  garnish  with 
an  egg  and  brown,    serve  w  ^  H  H  Markham. 

parsley.  ^ 


SPANISH  BEANS 

One  pint  frijoles  (beans).  Boil  20  minutes  in  soda  water- 
wash  off  and  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  2  large  sections  of  garlic  2 
large  onions  chopped  fine,  3  bay  leaves,  1  chili  pepper,  1  teaspoon 
salt  dash  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  three  hours.  Put  in  baking  dish 
with  slices  of  bacon  on  top  and  bake  one-half  hour  before  serving. 

Mrs.  I.  B.  Muir. 

SPANISH  RICE 

One  cup  rice,  \y2  teaspoons  sale,  3  tablespoons  butter,  %  tea- 
spoon red  pepper   y2  onion,  2  cups  stock  or  1  cup  tomato  pulp 

^K°r,Wate^  °Up  grated  cheese-    Boil  rice  for  5  minutes 
a  jy        Cr'  ad^  0nion'  then  rice-    Cook  until  better  is  absorbed 
Add  tomato  pulp,  salt  and  red  pepper.    Cook  until  tender  Stir 
in  cheese  beiore  serving.    One  cup  of  green  peas  will  improve 
tnis'  Mrs.  J.  Perry  Wood. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 
Chop  fine  2  onions  and  fry  in  butter.  Add  1  chopped  carrot 
and  a  few  pieces  of  celery  cut  fine.  Place  in  a  saucepan  3  lbs 
of  veal  cut  up  as  if  tor  a  stew.  Add  onions,  carrot  and  celery  and 
cook  all  until  tender.  Just  before  serving  add  */2  can  of  tomatoes, 
y2  glass  ot  claret,  with  2  mashed  cloves  of  garlic  Boil  for  five 
minutes.  Cook  some  spaghetti  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  add 
A  can  of  tomatoes  and  y2  lb.  of  grated  cheese.  Serve  this  with 
the  veal  sauce  poured  over  it.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Ruddick 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE 

^M.      *  Tt0  thi°k  Slices'    Place  in  shallow  Pan>  cover 

with  water  and  cook  until  well  done.    Drain,  then  place  in  layers 

in  a  buttered  baking  dish.    Between  each  laver  sprinkle  a  little 

SL*^  f PP6r  an^d0t  Wkh  bitS  °f  butter-  Then  &rate  a  thick 
layer  of  American  cheese  over,  pour  in  a  few  spoons  of  milk,  and 

bake  until  cheese  has  browned  and  formed  a  creamy  crust. 

Mrs,  C.  Mason  Kinne,  Berkeley 
POTATO  DOTS 

Wash  and  pare  large  potatoes  and  shape  with  an  apple  corer- 

cook  SfJSt S?^  mCh'  S°ak  in  C°ld  Water  ei^ht  ^utes,  drain! 
cook  in  salted  boiling  water  two  minutes ;  again  drain,  put  in  ice 

water  and  let  stand  ten  minutes.    Drain  dry  between  towels,  fry 
m  deep  iat,  dram  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Mrs.  K.  A.  Wvckoff 
CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES  WyC*°tt' 

di.h   3/  ZTTl  tWCniy  minu;es>  Peel  an^  slice.    Put  in  baking 
dish,  ft  cup  ot  sherry  1  cup  of  water,  heaping  tablespoon  butter 
1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  level  tablespoon  flour,  mix  together  Cook 

^L^nT'^Y  0Ver  Potatoes  in  sprinkle  with  brown 

^ugar,  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Mrs.  J.  D.  Thompson 

CREAMED  HOMINY  ' 

boak  whole  white  hominy  over  night  after  it  has  been  washed 

sbwlvTn  ZT*i    C0Ver  W|th  iUkC" am  Water  and  S  simmer 

h*!t  W  cln  1  ™?Fa  Untl1  SLbc8ina  t0  boil>  then  add  m^  and 
let  it  boil  slowly  until  done.    Then  add  a  thickening  of  flour  and 

butter  (mixed  together).    Add  a  little  salt  before  it  boils. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Rudolph. 


The  Misses  Schauffele 

Marinello  System  and  Preparations 

SHAMPOOING  -  HAIRDRESSING  -  MANICURING 

240-244  Chamber  of  Commerce  Building  PASADENA 

•         H  H  == 

A  NEW  WAY  TO  COOK  CORN 

To  cook  correctly  good  sweet  green  corn,  place  the  ears 
in  your  steamer,  leaving  just  room  for  a  layer  of  the  inner  husks; 
fasten  the  lid  on  tight  and  steam  over  boiling  water  only  six 
minutes;  take  up  at  once  and  with  a  sharp  knife  split  the  rows  of 
kernels,  sprinkle  little  salt  and  butter  well  and  serve  immediately. 

Mary  Greathouse. 

SPANISH  ENCHILADAS 

One  large  cup  grated  onion,  2  large  cups  grated  cheese,  1  quart 
seeded  and  cut  olives,  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  quarts  sifted  flour,  2 
teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  thyme,  3  dozen 
long  dried  red  peppers  (should  be  dark  and  waxy).  Wash,  seed, 
remove  strings  from  peppers,  cover  with  cold  water;  boil  y2  hour. 
Press  through  sieve,  saving  all  pulp.  To  this  add  the  vinegar, 
thyme,  salt  to  taste,  water  to  make  consistency  of  thick  catsup. 
Take  2  quarts  flour,  2  teaspoons  salt,  warm  water,  mix  into  mod- 
erately stiff  dough,  knead  thoroughly,  set  aside  one-half  hour.  Sepa- 
rate into  small  balls  size  of  walnut.  Roll  very  thin  (about  size  of 
small  dinner  plate).  Bake  on  dry  griddle,  turning  often  with 
fingers  until  crisp,  but  not  brown.  When  all  are  baked,  one  by 
one  immerse  the  tortillas  in  the  hot  oil  for  a  moment,  then  in  the 
hot  chili  sauce;  lay  on  a  plate,  and  in  the  center  place  the  filling: 
olives,  cheese,  onions,  sliced  egg,  spoonful  of  chili  sauce.  Fold 
up,  add  spoonful  of  chili  and  little  grated  cheese  on  top.  Place  in 
close  rows  in  baking  pan  for  re-heating  when  serving.  Best 
made  the  day  before  using.  Mrs.  Walter  S.  Wright. 

CELERY  CROQUETTE 

One  large  round  tablespoon  butter,  1  large  round  tablespoon 
flour,  24  cup  milk;  add  salt  and  pepper  and  let  boil  to  smooth 
thick  cream.  When  cooling  add  1  cup  chopped  celery,  1  cup  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs.  When  cold  form  in  croquettes,  roll  in  egg 
and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Jacobs. 

RICE  SOUFFLE  (SWISS  RICE) 

Three  ounces  rice,  boil  in  a  bittle  water  slowly  till  very  soft, 
drain  and  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  4  tablespoons  sugar 
and  the  rice,  until  light  and  foamy.  Then  add  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Butter  a  mould,  dust  with  cream  of  wheat  and  pour  in 
the  batter.  Be  sure  the  cover  fits  tightly.  Boil  (or  better  steam) 
hour.  Then  turn  pudding  out  of  mould. 
Sauce:  Three  yolks  of  eggs,  %  lb.  of  sugar,  y2  quart  Rhine 
wine.  Beat  together  }4  hour  until  thick,  then  pour  around  the 
pudding.    (This  sauce  can  stand.)      Mrs.  Wm.  R.  Henderson. 

3  5 


NUT  LOAF 

One  cup  pecans  or  English  walnuts,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  cooked 
hominy  or  rice,  4  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
%  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  hard  cooked  egg,  1  bay  leaf,  onion  juice 
and  celery  salt.  Boil  bay  leaf  with  rice.  When  done,  add  milk 
(in  double  boiler)  and  cook  until  rice  has  partly  absorbed  it.  Take 
from  fire,  add  nuts  and  egg,  chopped  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Press  into  a  well-buttered  pan  (a  bread  pan  is 
good),  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  If  loaf  seems 
dry,  baste  it  once  or  twice  with  melted  butter.  When  butter  is 
used  for  basting,  water  should  be  added  to  it,  one  part  butter  to 
two  parts  water.  Turn  loaf  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with  brown, 
white,  Spanish,  or  bechamel  sauce.  Use  onion  juice  in  white 
sauce.  Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Rhodes. 


Camp  and  Club  Dishes 

"Nights  when  no  peril  could  keep  you  awake  on 

Spruce  boughs  you  spread  for  your  couch  in  the  snow, 
Taste  all  your  feasts  like  the  beans  and  the  bacon, 
Fried  at  the  camp-fire  at  forty  below?" 

— Robert  W.  Service. 

CAMP  COFFEE 

Five  cups  of  water  brought  to  a  boil.  Add  1  cup  of  ground 
coffee  and  boil  10  minutes.    Settle  with  1  cup  of  cold  water. 

Mr.  Clinton  Churchill  Clarke. 

FLAPJACKS  FOR  THE  BOYS 

Use  2  cups  of  California  flapjack  flour  with  enough  water  to 
make  a  liquid  batter.  Mr.  George  C.  Cruickshank. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

Two  cups  sifted  flour,  2  tablespoons  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  to  1  cup  of  milk.  Mix  with  a  silver 
knife.  Mr.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

CAMP  HUNGER  PANCAKES 

One  cup  graham  or  white  flour,  1  cup  yellow  corn  meal,  two- 
thirds  cup  dry  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Mingle  thoroly  and  mix  with  enuf 
water  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter.  Cook  as  ordinary  flapjacks, 
but  well  done.  Fresh  milk  or  diluted  condensed  may  be  used  in 
lieu  of  the  dry  milk  and  water. 

N.  B.    Enuf  for  one  camper  or  an  ordinary  family. 

Judge  John  Perry  Wood. 
BACHELOR  GRIDDLE  CAKES 
Mix  a  little  flour  with  a  little  salt  and  sugar,  then  put'  in  a 
little  soda  and  baking  powder  and  shake  it  up  well.    Mix  into  a 
batter  by  the  use  of  sour  milk,  pour  in  a  little  olive  oil  and  beat 
thoroughly.    If  this  don't  work,  try  it  again.  Tim  Nay. 

BOILED  POTATOES 
Potatoes  are  better  boiled  with  their  jackets  on. 

E.  P.  C,  M.  D. 

56 


SCOTCH  SCONES,  "A  LA  MOUNTAINS 

One  cup  flour,  J4  teaspoon  baking  powder,  ft  cup  unsweetened 
milk  nfnch  of  salt  Mix  all  into  a  dough ;  roll  out  about  }4  inch 
SiTale  in  Trying  pan  that  has  been  well  floured  Brow,  on 
both  sides.    Good  hot  or  cold.  Mr.  Joe  Welsh. 

MONTANA  MAVERICK 

Take  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  can  of  corn  and  a  frying  pan. 
Youtake  some  bacon,  cut  it  up  and  fry  it,  then  add  the  tomatoes 
and  corn.   Cook  until  done  and  season  to  taste.     ^  Warner 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

Take  two  parts  of  catsup,  1  part  Miller's  chili  sauce.  To  this 
add  for  each  glass  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  crisp  celery  and  sweet 
green  peppers  both  chopped  very  fine,  the  juice  of  one-ha  a  lime 
or  an  equal  quantity  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If 
used  with  CaTfornia  oysters,  put  oysters  and  sauce  in  glass  pack 
in  cracked  ice.  For  tote  points  on  half  shell  put  glass  m  center  of 
plate  packed  in  ice.    Dip  oysters  in  ^ust^before  eatmg^ 

ONION  SOUP  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  fine  some  white  onions  and  saute  in  butter  until  quite 
soft  Make  also  a  stock  of  consomme,  or  consomma  and  chicken 
broth  and  onions  boiled  together,  and  skim  off  consomme ;  then 
serve  same  consomme  with  a  tablespoon  of  onions  already  sauted 
lay  on  top  three  strips  of  crisp  toast  and  sprinkle  over  with 
pLiesan  cheese.  Put  in  oven  until  au  gratined  Serve .  hot  and 
in  stone  or  Petit  Marinite  jar.  California  Club. 

BACON  SOUTHERN  STYLE 

Slice  bacon  very  thin.  Drop  in  boiling  water  for  one  minute, 
then  take  if  out,  lay  on  broiler,  sift  over  the  slice  a  little  brown 
sugar,  then  broil  to  a  light  brown,  turmng^nly  onc^^ 

ORROK  WINECUP 

Tuice  of  three  large  lemons,  juice  of  three  oranges  5  slices  ot 
best  ripe  pineapple  cut  in  strips  V/2  in.  by  y4  in-  by  J4  m.  I  he 
Peel  ofa  cucumber  may  be  added ;  #  pint  bottle  Marsch.no  cherries 
and  the  liquid.  Sweeten  with  granulated  sugar  to  taste ;  1  siphon 
Vichy  (or  2  bottles  club  soda),  1  quart  bottle  Sparkling  Moselle 
wine  (or  1  quart  champagne).  Mr  Geo  E.  Waldo. 

MOTHER  KAYSER'S  GRAPE  SOUP 

For  each  person  allow  1  cupful  of  water,  y2  cupful  of  grape 
juice  or  wine,  y2  tablespoon  sago.  Flavor  with  cinnamon  and 
lemon  peel.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Boil  water,  sago,  lemon  peel  and 
cinnamon  until  sago  is  transparent,  then  add  grape  juice  (or  wine) 
and  sugar,  boil  five  minutes  longer  or  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Do 
not  boil  too  long  after  adding  grape  juice  as  that  would  spoil 

the  flavor  Mr-  Elml  Kayser- 

OYSTERS  KIRKPATRICK  . 

Take  large  Toke  oysters  and  place  on  deep  shell    Cover  with 

chili  sauce  and  catsup  mixed,  then  lay  on  small  strip  of  fried  bacon; 

cover  with  grated  Parmesan  and  bake  in  hot  oven.    Serve  with 

half  lemon  and  cracker  or  crisp  toast.  California  Club. 

57 


FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING 

One  hard-boiled  egg,  2  tablespoons  salad  oil,  1  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  onion,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  pepper 
sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  malt  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  Tarra/on 
vinegar.  Take  1  hard-boiled  egg;  when  cold,  separate  the  yolk 
from  the  white;  pulverize  yolk  with  salad  fork;  add  2  tablespoons 
of  salad  oil  to  the  yolk.  Stir  well  together,  then  add  V2  teaspoon 
of  dry  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon 
of  Tarragon  vinegar  and  1  tablespoon  of  malt  vinegar,  V2  teaspoon 
of  salt  y2  teaspoon  of  pepper  sauce ;  add  the  white  of  egg  chopped 
fine.   Stir  well  together  and  serve.     Rev.  I.  P.  Lamdey  Bodfish 

CHAFING  DISH  BEEF 
Cut  left-over  roast  beef  and  warm  in  the  following  sauce* 
Inree  lumps  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  small  quantity  of  dry 
mustard,  black  pepper  and  cayenne,  1  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  3  tablespoons  of  currant  jelly,  y2  cup  of  Sherry  or  Madera. 

^TTT__  Mr.  John  H.  Kennedy. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CREOLE 
Cut  up  6  young  chickens,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.    When  done,  set  aside  and  prepare  the  sauce 

jl  an  °ni°n  m  butter  and  add  flour  for  thickening.  When  brown 
add  a  can  of  sweet  peppers  and  fry  a  little,  add  some  tomatoes,  a 
few  bay  leaves  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Now  add  the  chicken  and 
heat  through.  Dr.  j.  M.  Radebaugh. 

Breads 

"For  nothing  lovelier  can  be  found  in  woman  than  to  studv 
household  good.  J 

WHITE  BREAD 

Take  1  cup  of  flour;  on  this  pour  enough  potato  water  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Then  add  1  large  potato  mashed  fine,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  When  the  above  mixture  is  luke- 
warm, add  1  magic  yeast  cake  which  has  been  dissolved  in  warm 
water.    Do  this  at  noon.    The  next  morning  take  1  pint  of  hot 

Wu  wu  P!nf  h0t  milk'  add  1  tablespoon  lard,  and  1  tablespoon 
salt  When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  and  beat  well  Let  this 
stand  an  hour,  or  until  light.  Then  make  into  dough  and  knead 
well  Let  it  stand  another  hour,  or  until  it  is  twice  its  bulk  Then 
knead  without  adding  more  flour  and  rise  again.  Then  form  into 
loaves  and  let  rise  another  hour  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate 

°Ven*  t,at,t^  Mrs-  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

One  and  one-half  pints  milk,  scald  and  add  2  large  spoons  lard 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  pint  cold  water.  When  mixture  is  luke- 
warm add  flour  to  make  soft  batter.  One  cake  compressed  yeast 
dissolved  m  warm  water.  Let  stand  four  hours,  or  all  night. 
Beat  well.  Add  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  egg,  or  2  whites  well  beaten. 
Flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Let  stand  3y2  hours.  Roll,  cut  and 
fold.   Let  stand  one  hour  and  bake.        Mrs.  George  Bradbeer. 

58 


FINE  GINGER  BREAD 

Three-fourths  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  3  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  J/2  teaspoon  salt.  Beat 
soda  into  the  molasses.  Gas  fire  for  oven  low  as  possible.  Bake 
45  to  50  minutes.  Mrs.  Elias  Allen  Ford. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

Sift  together  a  quart  of  whole  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  rub  into  this  4  tablespoons  butter 
or  any  desired  shortening.  If  some  sweetness  is  wanted,  add  one 
or  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Add  gradually  enough  sweet  milk 
to  mix  to  a  soft  dough.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  knead  just 
enough  to  work  the  dough  together  and  roll  out  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  rounds  with  a  biscuit  cutter  or  into  diamonds  or  small 
squares  with  a  knife,  place  on  a  shallow  greased  pan,  brush  the 
tops  with  milk  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.        Mary  Greathouse. 

HEALTH  BREAD 

Stir  together  the  following:  Three  and  one-half  cups  water, 
1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  sugar  (brown  preferred),  y2 
teaspoon  salt,  6  tablespoons  molasses,  3  cups  health  bran,  1  cup 
flour,  1  egg  beaten,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts.  After 
the  above  ingredients  have  been  well  mixed,  add  y2  cup  flour 
with  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  J/2  teaspoon  soda,  sieved  to- 
gether. Bake  from  y2  to  hour,  testing  with  broom  splint,  or 
in  fireless  1J4  hours.  Mrs.  Clifton  J.  Piatt. 

PEANUT  BISCUIT 

Take  1  quart  of  flour,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  %  CUP  sugar,  y2  cup  of  ground  peanuts,  y2  cup 
sweet  milk,  %  pound  butter  and  3  eggs.  Sift  together  the  dry 
ingredients  and  rub  in  the  butter.  Then  mix  in  the  peanuts  thor- 
oughly, also  with  the  hands.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  to  them  the 
milk  and  mix  into  the  flour,  adding  more  milk  if  needed  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  and  bake  the  same  as  an  ordinary 
biscuit.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Daugherty. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 

One  pint  lukewarm  milk,  y2  yeast  cake,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  shortening,  4  cups  entire  wheat 
flour,  1  cup  broken  walnut  meats.  Stir  salt,  sugar,  shortening  and 
dry  yeast  in  milk,  sift  in  flour  and  mix  thoroughly;  when  light, 
add  nuts  and  beat  well.  Put  in  two  pans,  let  rise  again,  bake 
one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Miss  Harriet  W.  Culin. 

FRENCH  BISCUIT 

One  cake  compressed  yeast  soaked  in  warm  water,  1  pint  milk 
warmed,  y2  cup  sugar  added  to  warm  milk  (while  on  stove),  2 
tablespoons  lard  added  to  warm  milk,  1  pint  cold  milk.  Mix  yeast 
with  this  mixture  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  thick  as  cake  batter. 
Beat  very  hard.  Set  in  warm  place  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Work 
in  flour  till  stiff,  also  2  tablespoons  salt.  Put  to  rise  in  warm 
place  for  2  hours.  Roll  out  y2  inch  thick,  cut  with  small  biscuit 
cutter  and  let  rise  an  hour  and  a  half  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
The  dough  can  be  prepared  and  kept  in  ice  box  for  two  or  three 
days.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Boice. 

59 


BROWN  BREAD 

One  pint  corn  meal,  1  pint  graham  flour,  \y2  pints  sour  milk, 
V2  pint  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt,  \y2  teaspoons  soda.  Divide  soda 
between  sour  milk  and  molasses.  Beat  each  until  milk  foams  and 
molasses  turns  light  in  color.  Mix  all  together,  put  in  pound  bak- 
ing powder  cans  well  greased  and  steam  three  hours.  For  variety,  a 
cup  of  raisins  may  be  added.  Mrs.  P.  Koch. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 
Mix  well  two  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  white  flour,  y2 
teaspoon  of  salt,  3  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.    Add  y2  cup 
of  molasses,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  with  \y2  cups  chopped 
walnut  meats.  Mrs.  Herman  Kleps. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 
One  quart  white  flour  (sifted),  \y2  quarts  graham  flour  (un- 
sifted), 1  quart  warm  water,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  ^ 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one  cup  lukewarm  water.  Mix  dry  in- 
gredients. Melt  lard  and  butter  in  warm  water,  add  molasses  and 
yeast.  Mix  into  flour,  beat  well,  let  rise  over  night.  In  morning 
stir  down,  put  in  three  bread  tins  and  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Bake 
for  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Warner. 

RAISIN  BREAD 
Four  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  cup  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  Sultana  raisins,  1  egg,  2  cups  milk.  Sift  baking 
powder  and  flour  into  a  basin,  add  sugar,  salt  and  raisins.  Beat 
the  egg,  add  milk,  pour  among  the  dry  ingredients,  mix  well.  Put 
into  a  corn  bread  pan,  let  rise  twenty  minutes,  bake  one  hour  in 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Geo.  W.  L.  Lord. 

SQUASH  MUFFINS 
Two-thirds  cooked  squash ;  add  *4  cup  sugar ,  1  beaten  egg ,  2^4 
cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter.    Mix  well  and  bake  in  buttered  and  floured 
pans,  25  minutes.    If  for  tea,  add  %  teaspoon  ginger. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 
TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS 
One-fourth  cup  butter,  J$  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  %  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.    Bake  15  or  20  minutes. 

Miss  Eva  B.  Hetherington. 
MUFFINS 

Two  cups  flour ,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ,  salt ,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  shortening, 
bake  twenty-minutes.  Mrs.  Snyder. 

MUFFINS 

Two  scant  tablespoons  butter,  2  scant  tablespoons  sugar,  2 
eggs ,  %  cup  of  milk ,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  about  1  scant 
cup  flour  Mrs.  Edward  M.  Mackey. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 
(Made  with  Olive  Oil.) 
Two  cups  of  flour  (Sperry's  best)       teaspoon  salt,  4  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted  together,  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 
in  y2  cup  milk,  add  more  flour,  if  necessary,  to  roll. 

Miss  Mary  S.  Wylie. 

60 


POTATO  ROLLS 

Fmir  lartre  boiled  potatoes,  mashed  through  a  colander ,  1  quart 

but  flour  lightly  roll  out  }4  inch  thick.  th  are 

I"?  Tked  £  PBaker  Hke  rolfs°  They  sS  "done  in  is'min- 
to  be  baked  in.    Bake  liKe  rons.         y       ^  Q  E  Waldo. 

utes 

TWELVE  POP  OVERS 

Three  eees   1  cup  flour ,  2  cups  milk ,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have 

a  Httfe  flour  'and  more  milk,  also  salt.  The  batter  should  be  of 
con  tency  of  cream  when  ready  to  turn  into  hot,  well  greased 
p°anl  BJe  in  oven,  hot  at  first,  then  a  ™»- 
utes  or  half  an  hour.  "t„"  J 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUIT 
Four  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes,  1  pint  warm  water  m 
which  dissSve  ^  yeast  cake;  //cup  lard  and  flour ;  boil  and  mash 
potaoes  fine,  add  lard,  water  and  yeast;  add  enough  ta  to  mje 
smooth  dough,  cover  and  let  rise  from  8  o  clock m .  "^^ 
four  in  afternoon.    Make  into  small  biscurts^ns^l^ 

bake'  CORN  BREAD 

Put  3  handfuls  of  white  corn  meal,  a  lump  of  butter  (size  ot 
an  egg)  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  the  mixing  bowl;  scald  with  enough 
b"ilin|  water  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Whip  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
into  this,  with  an  after-dinner  coffee  spoon  of  soda  Beat  wejh 
When  ready  for  the  oven,  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiffly,  are 
added  gently.  Do  not  stir  after  this.  Put  in  a  deep  pan  and  bake 
?we„tygminutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  whole  Amount  for  1  loaf. 
Size  of  pan,  6  inches  long,  4  inches  wide,  finches 

SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD 

Two  cups  well  cooked  rice ,  1  cup  corn  meal ,  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  /  teaspoon  sugar   2  teaspoons  o 
baking  powder,  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter ^  Bake t  A 
hour  in  a  hot  oven.    This  must  be  served  from  the  pan  with  a 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Uates. 

Sp°°  CORN  BREAD 

Two  cups  of  yellow  corn  meal ,  1  cup  of  flour  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  J*  teaspoon ,  of 
salt  Add  together  and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  1  pint  of  milk  and 
2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.   Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  George  Mills. 


61 


WHOLESOME  BREAD 

:  One  cup  whole  wheat  flour,  2  cups  health  bran,  %  cup  mo- 
lasses, y2  cup  raisms  or  nuts,  or  mixture,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  in  1  cup  sour  milk.    Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Miss  Henrietta  Visscher. 
BEATEN  BISCUIT 
Six  pounds  of  flour,  1  pound  of  lard,  6  ounces  of  salt;  use  1 
part  water  to  1  part  milk,  in  quantity  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  This 
makes  over  a  hundred  biscuits.    You  can,  of  course,  use  these  pro- 
portions for  as  small  a  quantitv  as  you  desire.    Work  the  flour 
lard  and  water  together  with  the  hands  before  putting  in  milk  and 
water.    Make  a  stiff  dough,  adding  the  milk  and  water.  Roll 
through  the  beaten  biscuit  machine  or  pound  with  a  heavy  rolling 
pin  until  the  fingers  make  prints  in  the  dough  or  until  you  can 
hear  the  dough  pop.    As  you  roll  through  the  rollers,  double  the 
dough  each  time.    Ffty  times  put  through  the  rollers  makes  good 
biscuits,  but  one  hundred  times,  better  ones.    Roll  out  y2  inch 
thick  and  cut  with  cutter.    Prick  each  biscuit  twice  with  a  fork 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  30  minutes.    When  done  the  top  should 
be  a  light  brown  and  the  bottom,  top  and  edges  all  hard. 

Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Waldo. 

CORN  GEMS 

One-fourth  cup  butter  and  %  cup  sugar  creamed  together 
1  egg,  y2  cup  corn  meal.    Beat  all  this  together  well,  then  add  1 
teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk,  \y2  cups  flour,  \y2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.   Bake  about  20  minutes.  Miss  H.  B.  Wood 

PARKER  HOUSE  CORN  CAKE 

In  1  bowl  put  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  yellow  Indian  meal,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  in  another  bowl  stir 
well  together  1  egg,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  cup  warm  milk  and  1  teaspoon 
butter  (melted).  Pour  into  the  first  bowl,  beat  thoroughly  and 
bake  25  minutes  in  an  oven  not  too  hot. 

0  A  T_  Mrs.  B.  Marshall  Wotkyns. 

SAINT  AUGUSTINE  CORN  DODGERS 

One  quart  of  corn  meal,  a  teaspoon  of  lard  (better  without)  2 
eWlu  teasP°°^  of  salt-  Scald  the  meal,  cool  with  a  little  milk, 
add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  all  hard  for  10  minutes.  Make  the 
batter  thin  enough  to  drop  off  the  spoon  in  boiling  lard.  Salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.    Serve  hot.    Very  good  with  maple  syrup. 

nATTmTT  Mrs.  J.  S.  Torrance. 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

One  cup  of  corn  meal,  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of 
shortening,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  eggs,  separ- 
ated and  beaten.  Scald  the  meal  with  water,  add  sugar,  salt  and 
shortening.  Let  cool,  then  add  yolk  and  white  of  eggs.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Chas.  D.  Lockwood. 
NUT  BREAD 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  y2  cup  of 
white  flour  1  scant  cup  of  sugar,  yA  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Bake  1  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  A.  D.  S.  McCoy. 

62 


Real  Estate       Stocks       Bonds       Mortgage  Loans  Insurance 


Blankenhorn  -  Hunter  Company 


130  E.  Colorado  Street  936  Van  Nuys  Building 

PASADENA,  CAL.  LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 

==========  —  □  B 

BREAKFAST  COFFEE  CAKE 

One  cup  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  egg; 
2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flour  enough  for  a  thick  batter  (like 
cake).  Pour  into  flat  tin,  sprinkle  top  thickly  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon.    Dab  with  bits  of  butter. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Stehman. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg  (melted),  yolks  3  eggs, 
1  cup  milk,  2y2  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  added  last. 

Frosting:  Small  piece  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
chopped  nuts.    Melt  this  and  put  on  top  before  baking. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 
GUM  GLUTEN  BREAD 

One-half  pint  milk  and  y2  pint  water,  heated ;  y2  teaspoon  salt 
and  1  teaspoon  butter.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm.  Add  1  well- 
beaten  egg  and  %  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  water  and  enough  Gum 
Gluten  Flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Cover  and  let  rise,  then  add 
enough  Gum  Gluten  flour  to  make  soft  dough  and  knead  well. 
Form  into  loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake  1  hour. 

Mrs.  Clarence  U.  Bunnell. 
^  GUM  GLUTEN  MUFFINS 

Soak  1  cup  Gum  Gluten  Breakfast  food  over  night  in  1  cup 
milk.  In  the  morning  add  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  a  little  salt  and  1  tea- 
spoon melted  butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  enough 
Gum  Gluten  Ground  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Be  sure  and  use  Hoyt's  Gum  Gluten  Flour  and  satisfy  yourself 
that  it  is  fresh.   Otherwise  your  bread  will  be  a  failure. 

Mrs.  Clarence  U.  Bunnell. 
CUSTARD  CORN  BREAD 
Two  cups  of  fine  white  corn  meal,  Zy2  cups  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2y2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour 
on  the  cornmeal.  Let  it  cool,  then  add  salt,  sugar,  baking  powder 
and  yolks  of  eggs  and  beat  quickly  and  thoroughly  together.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  flat  pan  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  30  minutes.  Mrs.  Richard  H.  Alexander. 

63 


SALLY  LUNN 

Sift  together  1  quart  flour ,  1  teaspoon  salt ,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder ,  rub  in  2-3  cup  butter  (cold)  ,  add  four  beaten  eggs ,  ]/2 
pint  milk ;  mix  into  a  firm  batter  like  cup  cakes,  pour  into  2  round 
cake  tins,  and  bake  25  minutes.    Eat  hot  with  butter. 

Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

BRAN  CRACKERS 

Blend  \y2  cups  of  bran  and  \y2  cups  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  J/2  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons 
butter.  Make  into  a  stiff  dough  with  cold  milk.  Roll  out  thin; 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  Elias  Allen  Ford. 

NUT  BREAD 

Two  eggs ,  2-3  cup  of  sugar ,  1  cup  of  milk ,  1  cup  of  walnuts 
(chopped)  ,  1  teaspoon  salt ,  3  cups  of  flour ,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder ;  raise  30  minutes  and  bake.        Mrs.  John  Willis  Baer. 

HEALTH  GEMS 
Two  cups  health  bran ,  1  cup  white  flour ,  y2  cup  Orla  molasses , 
1  teaspoon  salt ,  1  cup  sour  milk ,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda ,  2  eggs , 
a  few  raisins.    Bake  in  gem  pans  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Miller. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE 

Six  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  grated,  1  quart  milk,  3 
eggs  well  beaten ,  1  tablespoon  of  butter ,  y2  tablespoon  of  cinna- 
mon,  y2  teaspon  of  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  of  allspice,  y2  teaspoon 
of  ginger ,  y2  cup  of  molasses ,  y2  cup  of  sugar ,  bake  1  hour.  Turn 
out  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Bryant. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS 

One  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour,  y2  cup  white  flour,  2 
teaspoons  lard  or  any  other  shortening,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one  small  spoon  baking  powder,  one-third  small  teaspoon  soda. 
Work  shortening  into  flour  then  add  enough  buttermilk  or  sour 
milk  to  make  a  good  soft  biscuit  dough.   Knead  it  out  well  and  cut. 

Mrs.  E.  J.Pyle. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  WITH  WALNUTS 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  \y2  cups  white  flour,  \y2  cups  yellow 
corn  meal,  y2  cup  brown  sugar,  2  cups  stiff  sour  milk,  ^  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses ,  1  cup  walnuts ,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Mix  dry  ingredients  first  and  add  molasses,  soda 
milk  and  nuts  last.  Mrs.  Edward  F.  Robbins. 

CHEESE  ROLL  BISCUIT 
Make  a  rich  baking  powder  biscuit  crust.    Roll  it  out  %  of 
an  inch  thick,  covered  with  grated  cheese  and  roll  it  as  a  jelly 
roll  and  cut  up  in  %  inch  slices  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 
GRAHAM  MUFFINS 
One  and  1-3  cups  graham  flour,  y2  cup  wheat  flour,  1  egg,  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  yA  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  salt;  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  sugar  to- 
gether, then  add  beaten  egg  and  milk,  then  melted  butter.  Bake 
in  moderately  quick  oven  in  muffin  pans.   Mrs.  Clara  H.  Chase. 

64 


FAIR  OAKS  3368 


MRS.  B.  L.  TURNER 

FIRST-CLASS  CATERESS  AND  WAITRESS 
Dinners  -  Luncheons  -  Parties  -  Weddings 
Prompt  Service  on  Short  Notice 

920  WORCESTER  AVE.  PASADENA,  CAL. 

B  B 

COFFEE  CAKE 

One  pint  flour,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  lard, 
1  egg,  24  cup  milk,  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cinnamon  or 
vanilla  for  flavoring.    Cinnamon  and  sugar  on  top.    Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  Carl  Hellstrom. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  graham  flour  to  thicken.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  in  iron  muffin  pan  if  possible. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Cruickshank. 

NUT  BREAD 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  \y2  cups  white  flour,  y2  cup  corn  meal 
(yellow,  y2  cup  sugar,  2  cups  sour  milk,  y2  cup  molasses,  2  even 
teaspoons  soda,  salt,  1  cup  broken  walnuts;  bake  slowly  1  hour. 

Mrs.  J.  O.  Hoyt. 


Doughnuts  -  Waffles  -  Pancakes 

FRENCH  TOAST 

Two  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  salt.  Heat  a  little  butter  in 
frying  pan.   Dip  bread  in  beaten  eggs  and  fry. 

Miss  Barber. 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS 

One  and  one-half  pint  of  flour  sifted  with  3  rounding  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  iy2  cup  milk  to  which 
has  been  added  one  well  beaten  egg.  Roll  in  small  balls,  and 
drop  in  gravy.  Cook  for  12  minutes.  Do  not  remove  cover  until 
cooked.   Thicken  gravy  after  removing  dumplings. 

Mrs.  Annie  Abbott. 

WAFFLES 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Add  1  pint  of  milk  and  1  pint 
of  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  four  times,  with  3  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  2  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter.  Beat  all  with  a  Dover  egg  beater,  then  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  These  are  very  good  made  with 
whole  wheat  flour.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

POUND  CAKE  WAFFLES 

One  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  10  eggs,  a 
little  ground  mace  or  nutmeg,  or  some  vanilla.  Cream  the  sugar 
and  butter.  Add  well  beaten  eggs,  add  well  sifted  flour.  Bake  in 
waffle  irons.    These  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Mrs.  Clara  B.  Hazen. 

65 


WAFFLES 

Two  cups  flour,  2  teaspons  baking  powder,  1  tablepoon  butter, 
1  tablespoon  lard,  4  eggs,  1  pint  sour  cream. 

Mrs.  Harry  Allen. 
GERMAN  POTATOES  PANCAKES 
Peel  and  grate  four  good  sized  potatoes.    Add  two  eggs  (un- 
beaten), about  one-third  cup  of  milk  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  flour, 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt.    Fry  same  as  you  would  corn  fritters. 

Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 
CREAM  FRITTERS 
Warm  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  large  stick  of  cinnamon  in  a 
double  boiler.  Mix  together  y2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  and  1  large  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cream.  Mix  well, 
strain  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  when 
cold  cut  in  squares,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  and  again 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Holbert. 
RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES 
One  cup  cold  cooked  rice,  24  CUP  milk,  y2  cup  flour,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  and  the  whites  folded  in  last. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Bostwick. 
RAISED  DOUGHNUTS 
Boil  and  mash  2  medium  sized  potatoes,  strain  them  into  a 
pint  of  boiling  milk.  Add  yA  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  let 
stand  till  luke  warm,  then  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  y2  yeast  cake 
and  flour  to  make  into  dough  (not  stiff),  let  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  y2  cup  butter  and  flour  to  mold,  let  rise  again  about 
four  hours  in  warm  place.  Roll  out  y2  inch  thick,  let  rise  awhile  on 
cake  board  and  fry.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 

DOUGHNUTS 
One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  level  teaspoon  of 
soda,  2  teaspoons  of  hot  lard,  flour  to  thicken  enough  to  roll  and 
cut,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    Fry  in  deep  hot  fat.    You  can  flavor 
with  cinnamon  if  you  like.  Mrs.  Annie  Abbott. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS 
One  pint  sweet  milk,  1  yeast  cake,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard, 
3  eggs,  pinch  of  salt  and  nutmeg.  Put  quantity  of  fl  our  you  think 
it  iwll  require  in  a  pan,  make  a  hole  in  center  (as  for  bread).  Beat 
eggs  and  sugar,  add  all  the  other  ingredients  and  make  a  sponge. 
Do  this  at  noon.  It  should  be  light  by  night,  then  knead  and  let  rise 
again.  When  light,  (by  bedtime)  roll  and  cut  out,  place  them  in 
a  warm  place  and  in  the  morning  fry  in  deep  fat  and  roll  in  pow- 
dered sugar.  Mrs.  Mary  Torrance. 

JANE'S  DOUGHNUTS 
Easy  to  make  and  take  up  very  little  lard  in  cooking.  1  cup 
sugar,  heaping,  2  eggs,  1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  mixed  in  potatoes,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Four  to  make  soft,  but  firm  enough  to 
roll  nicely.   Fry  in  deep  lard.  Miss  Mabel  Gould. 

66 


/ 


Needlework 


Shirt  Waists 


Christmas  Novelties 


BEEMAN  &  HENDEE 

351-353  S.  Broadway 
LOS  ANGELES 

Infants  Layettes      Dolls  and  Toys      Children  and  Juvenile  Clothing 

E  E 

CREAM  DOUGHNUTS 

One  sup  sweet  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  beat  well  together  and 
leave  in  bowl  over  night.  Then  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  pinch  salt,  1 
quart  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  together,  flavor  with 
nutmeg  and  vanilla.  Mrs.  E.  R.  Hull. 


Cakes 

"I'm  quite  ashamed — 'tis  mighty  rude 
To  eat  so  much,  but  all's  so  good." 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

One  cup  of  flour,  measured  before  sifting,  and  y2  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar  sifted  4  times.  \y2  cups  sugar  (sifted  1),  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  11  eggs.  Beat  the  sugar  lightly  into  the  eggs, 
add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  pan  with 
funnel  from  45  to  60  minutes.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Stone,  Ontario. 

CAKE  TO  GO  WITH  MAPLE  MOUSSE 

One  half  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y^  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
\y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Cream 
sugar  and  butter,  add  milk.  Then  alternately  small  quantities  of 
the  egg  whites  and  flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  the  baking 
powder.  Bake  40  or  50  minutes  in  a  flat  pan.  If  desired  1  cup  of 
nut  meats  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  McCrea,  Vancouver,  B.  C. 
POUND  CAKE  BY  MEASURE 

One  cup  of  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter,  \y2  cups  of 
sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  flour  and  butter  very  thorough- 
ly together,  then  add  sugar  and  beat  well  again,  mix  all  together 
and  beat  well.  Mrs.  Philip  Auten. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  5  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  \y2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  Mix  sugar  and  yolks  to- 
gether, beat  whites  light  and  add  first  a  little  flour  then  a  little 
whites  until  all  is  used.    Bake  in  two  layers  with  custard  filling. 

Custard:  One  cup  milk,  1  egg,  \y2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  lump  of  butter. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 

67 


STATIONERS  TYPEWRITERS 
PICTURE  FRAMERS  ALL  MAKES 

KODAKS  SOLD  RENTED  REPAIRED 

JARVIS  &  PRINZ 


OFFICE  SUPPLIES 
Phone  Col.  695 


49  East  Colorado  Street 
PASADENA,  CAL. 


EI  □ 


"STONE-CHURCH  CAKE" 
Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,    leup  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  milk, 
teaspoon  of  soda,  y2  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  V/2  cups  of 
flour.  Mrs.  Frederick  Gleason. 

ENGLISH  LOAF  CAKE 
(Afternoon  Tea  Cake) 
One  lb.  self  raising  flour,  or  1  lb.  flour  and  2  scant  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  %  lb.  ground  rice,  y2  lb.  butter,  y2  lb.  sugar,  1 
pound  of  currants,  y2  pound  sultana  raisins,  y2  pound  of 
mixed  peel,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  y2  pint  milk  (scant).  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  eggs,  then  add  the  dry  ingredients, 
flavor  last  of  all.  Bake  in  gentle  heat.  Allspice  may  be  added  if 
desired.  By  omitting  the  fruit  and  adding  caraway  seed,  English 
seed  cake  will  be  the  result.  Mrs.  Wm.  R.  Henderson. 

CITRON  POUND  CAKE 
One-half  lb  butter,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  5  eggs  (separate  and 
put  in  whites  last),  2  cups  flour,  *4  cup  brandy,  nutmeg  or  mace, 
currants  and  small  pieces  of  citron,  nuts  on  top.  Bake  slowly  1 
hour  in  round  cake  pan.  Be  sure  to  use  measuring  cup.  This  cake 
is  very  nice  for  tea.  Mrs.  Robert  Pitcairn,  Jr. 

LEBKUCHEN 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup 
chopped  almonds,  1  cup  chopped  citron,  4  tablespoons  ground 
chocolate,  2  tablespoons  of  molasses,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.    Spread  thin  in  square  tins  and  bake. 

Frosting:  One  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  ground  chocolate, 
%.  teaspon  vanilla,  with  little  water.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  Pour 
frosting  over  cake  and  cut  into  squares  when  cool. 

Mrs.  C.  Mason  Kinne. 
SILVER  CAKE 

Cream  two-thirds  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups  of  sugar.  Beat  very 
stiff  the  whites  of  6  eggs.  Four  cups  sifted  flour,  sift  again  three 
times  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  a  little  flour 
into  butter  mixture,  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  J/2  teaspoon 
of  almond  extract.  Beat  in  a  little  milk  and  alternate  with  rest  of 
flour,  using  one  cup  milk.  Beat  very  light  and  fold  in  whites  of 
eggs.    Oven  must  not  be  too  hot.  Mrs.  G.  W.  Gilbert. 

CUP  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs, 
1  level  teaspoon  soda,  2  level  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  and  milk,  then  sift 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  add  flour  sifted. 

Mrs.  Clara  Hood  Randall. 

68 


BISQUIT-TORTE 

Beat  yolks  of  eight  eggs  very  light  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add 
four  tablespoons  of  potato  flour  (sifted),  juice  of  1  lemon  and  the 
whites  of  8  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  m  cake  pan  with  funnel 
in  center.   This  cake  is  very  light  and  not  dry. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Johnson. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  1}4  cups  of  sugar  1  cup  of  flour  1  level 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  add  the  yolks  of  7  eggs  beaten  light  the 
last  thing  before  putting  in  oven  and  add  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Very  slow  oven.  .  «  , 

Frosting:   Whites  of  2  eggs,  same  amount  of  water,  powdered 
sugar,  stirred  together  until  smooth.    Flavor  to  taste. 

5    '  Mrs.  F.  G.  Cruickshank. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  add  one  cup  of  fine  granulated 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  one  tablespoon  of  cold 
water  or  a  lump  of  ice  melted  in  the  lemon  juice  to  make  2  table- 
spoons of  liquid.  Add  the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and  one  cup  pastry 
flour    Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  about  twenty-five  minues. 

Miss  Josephine  S.  Mahony. 
POTATO  SPONGE  CAKE 

Separate  four  eggs  and  beat  separately.  To  the  yolks  add  one 
half  cup  sugar,  to  the  whites  beaten  stiff  y2  cup  sugar.  Mix  to- 
gether and  add  y2  cup  potato  flour  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
lemon  flavoring.  Bake  in  square  pan,  when  cool  cut  in  half,  use 
filling  between,  on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Filling:  Two  inches  off  a  pound  of  butter,  one  cup  powdered 
sugar,  y2  cup  chocolate  melted  with  two  tablespoons  hot  water. 
Add  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.    Beat  in  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

Mrs.  Emile  Bauer. 
MARY  JANE'S  SPONGE  CAKE 

Five  eggs,  y2  pound  of  sugar,  %  pound  of  pastry  flour,  1  lemon. 
Beat  yolks,  sugar,  grated  rind  of  lemon  together,  then  the  lemon 
juice.    Beat  whites  separately  and  put  m  before  the  flour,  which 

comes  last.   Bake  slowly      of  an  nour-  _ 

Mrs.  Walter  Raymond. 

CHILDREN'S  SPONGE  CAKES 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  1 
cup  sugar,  two  eggs  broken  into  a  measuring  cup  and  the  cup  filled 
with  cream.  Stir  all  together  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  hard  for 
five  minutes  and  bake  10  or  12  minutes  in  muffin  pans. 

Mrs.  Annie  Abbott. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  milk,  iy2  cups 
of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Make  a  boiled  frosting  with  2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  water.  Boil  till  it  threads,  take  from  fire  and  stir 
in  whites  of  2  eggs.  Heat  part  of  y2  pound  of  marshmallows  by 
putting  in  oven  for  a  minute  and  stir  into  frosting  while  hot.  Dec- 
orate top  of  cake  with  rest  of  the  marshmallows. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cole. 

69 


POTATO  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  y2  cup 
mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  flour,  y2  cup  ground  chocolate,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  y2  cup  nuts,  y2  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mrs.  J.  O.  Hoyt. 

DEVILS  FOOD 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  rich  sour  cream  mixed  with 
one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  flour  (meas- 
ured before  sifting),  y2  cup  of  powdered  chocolate  or  cocoa  dis- 
solved in  y2  cup  boiling  water,  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Bake  in  layers.  For  frosting,  4  squares  of  Bakers  chocolate,  one 
cup  sugar,  4  teaspoons  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Melt 
chocolate,  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  until  when  dropped  in 
water  a  soft  ball  is  formed.    Add  two  cups  broken  walnut  meats. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Stone,  Ontario. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

One  good  cup  butter,  1  scant  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  3}i  cups 
flour,  measure  flour  after  sifting,  3y2  heaping  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  5  eggs  leaving  out  whites  of  two  for  frosting.  Eggs 
whipped  separately.  This  quantity  will  make  three  layers.  Bake 
in  long  pans.  Mrs.  Fred  Elmer  Wilcox. 

CHOCOLATE  PASTE  FOR  CAKE 

Three  tablespons  grated  baker's  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  1  large  egg,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  pint  of  milk, 
all  spoons  must  be  heaping.  Heat  the  milk,  then  add  cornstarch 
and  egg  and  stir  until  thick,  then  add  chocolate.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  spread  thickly  between  the  layers. 

Mrs.  Fred  Elmer  Wilcox. 
FROSTING  FOR  CAKE 

Whites  of  two  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  \y2  coffee  cups 
sugar  boiled  until  dropped  in  cold  water  it  will  form  a  soft  ball. 
Pour  sugar  over  whites  of  egg  slowly  stirring  all  the  time.  Be 
careful  and  not  stir  too  much.  Add  six  tablespoons  baker's  cho- 
colate.   Two  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Fred  Elmer  Wilcox. 
BOILED  SPONGE  CAKE 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  put  together.  While  beat- 
ing eggs  put  on  1  cup  of  sugar  with  %.  cup  of  water  and  boil  until 
it  hairs,  then  stir  into  beaten  eggs  slowly,  beating  rapidly.  Beat 
until  cold,  then  add  a  cup  of  flour  and  a  little  of  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon.  Mrs.  Philip  Auten. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE  WITH  MOCHA  ICING 
Two  cups  sugar,  6  eggs  leaving  out  whites  of  three,  1  cup  boil- 
ing water,  2y2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  baking  powder.  Put  bak- 
ing powder  in  flour.  Beat  yolks  and  three  whites  fifteen  minutes 
with  egg  beater,  add  sugar  and  beat  until  light,  add  boiling  water, 
then  three  whites  beaten  well.  Add  flour  and  flavoring.  Ice  with 
Mocha  icing. 

Mocha  Icing:  Blanch  almonds  and  brown  rich  brown,  roll 
with  rolling  pin  on  paper.  Make  hard  sauce,  cream  butter,  add 
pulverized  sugar  until  creamy.  Cut  cake  in  small  squares,  spread 
this  mixture  on  the  squares  of  cake  and  roll  them  in  the  crushed 
nuts.  Mrs.  Howard  J.  Fish. 

70 


MOCHA  CAKE 

Two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  1  cup  sugar,  1  large  cup  flour,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  pinch  salt,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Put  on  the  stove  half  cup  milk,  teaspoonful  butter  and  let  come 
to  boil,  then  pour  over  the  other  ingredients  and  beat  very  light. 

Bake  in  2  tins.  . 

Filling:  1  cup  powdered  sugar  creamed  with  %  cup  butter, 
2  tablespoons  strong  coffee,  2  tablespoons  dry  cocoa.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  spread  between  and  on  top  of  cakes. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry. 

GILT-EDGE  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  two 
beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.    Bake  in  two  layers. 

Filling:  One  cup  sugar/enough  water  to  dissolve  sugar,  boil 
till  it  threads.  Have  two  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  pour  m  the 
boiling  syrup,  beat  till  stiff,  add  half  a  cup  of  chopped  seeded 
raisins,  and  a  half  cup  of  chopped  citron,  spread  between  and  on 

top  of  cake.  Mrs-  Wm-  L-  ZuilL 

DATE  CAKE 

One  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  water,  poured  over 
1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  cup  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  melted 
butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  salt,  Iji  cups  flour,  1  cup  nuts 
chopped  rather  course.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  ^ 
rr  Miss  H.  B.  Wood. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

For  the  cake  take  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2>y2  cups  sifted 
flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon 
flavoring,  whites  of  6  eggs.    For  the  frosting  take  3  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup 
chopped  nut  meats,  5  figs  cut  into  bits.  Mix  the  cake  in  the  usual 
manner ;  the  ingredients  are  enumerated  in  order.  For  the  frosting 
cook  the  sugar  and  water  until  when  tested  the  syrup  will  spin 
a  thread  2  inches  long;  pour  in  a  fine  stream  into  the  whites  of 
the  eeres  beaten  drv-  Add  the  fruit  and  use  when  cold  as  hllmg- 
frostinl  Mrs.  Wm.  C.  Fletcher. 

BUCKEYE  CAKE 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  4  cups  flour  6 
eggs,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  rind  of  1  lemon.    Good  eithei 
for  layer  or  for  large  cake.  Mrs.  L.  S.  Roberts. 

CARMEL  CAKE 
To  make  three  large  layers  of  caramel  cake  allow  1  cup  but- 
ter, 2  cuos  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  mlk,  3  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs  (whites) 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Place  the  ingredients  together  as 
for  plain  layer  cake,  adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake 
in  three  well  buttered  tins  and  when  done  spread  between  the 
layers  caramel  fulling  made  thus :  .„ 

Filling :  One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  ot  milk, 
1  tablespoon  (scant)  of  butter,  y2  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  Place 
the  milk,  sugar  and  butter  on  the  fire  in  a  sauce  pan  set  in  another 
containing  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  beat  it  hard  until  stiff.    Then  add  the  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 

71 


ORANGE  LAYER  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  cream  thoroughly 
together,  add  two-thirds  cups  milk,  1  teaspon  vanilla,  2  cups  flour 
with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  it.  Lastly  stir  in  well 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.    Bake  in  layers. 

Feather  sauce  for  filling:  One  cup  water,  juice  of  an  orange 
and  grated  rind  of  half  of  it,  juice  of  half  a  small  lemon,  scant  cup 
of  sugar.  Boil  and  thicken  to  a  smooth  paste  with  flour  mixed 
with  cold  water.  Add  good  pinch  of  salt.  When  thick  set  aside  to 
cool.  Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar  well  and  add 
the  above  paste  gradually  until  very  light  and  feathery.  Spread 
between  layers  of  cake,  sprinkling  shredded  cocoanut  on  each  layer. 
Cover  top  as  well.   Better  the  second  day. 

Mrs.  Flora  Warner. 
CARAMEL  CAKE 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  ^  cup 
milk,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda, 
flavor  with  lemon.  Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Witherell. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE 

One  full  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  iy2  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2y4  squares  of  baker's  chocolate, 
4  eggs,  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  lap  in  the  last  thing.  Bake  one 
hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Icing:  One  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  y2  cup 
water,  whites  2  eggs,  \y2  squares  melted  chocolate.  Beat  until 
cold.  Mrs.  Wallace  Jones,  Los  Angeles. 

INEXPENSIVE  LAYER  CAKE 

One-third  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  one,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  iy2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  2  layers  or  a  flat 
cake.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Abbott,  Ontario,  Cal. 

WALNUT  CAKE 

Beat  to  a  cream  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar.  Dissolve  one  cup 
corn  starch  in  one  cup  of  milk,  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar,  then 
add  two  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff.  At  the  last  add  2  cups  of 
chopped  walnut  meats.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  one  hour  in 
pan  with  a  chimney.  Mrs.  Annie  Abbott. 

BROWN  SUGAR  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  two 
eggs,  beaten  separately.  One  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves  each. 
Two  cups  flour,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  cup  raisins  and  1 
cup  walnuts,  cut  up. 

Frosting:.  Three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  hot  water.  Boil 
until  it  makes  a  soft  ball.  Pour  over  two  well  beaten  whites  of 
eggs-  Mrs.  Fannie  Stein. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  H.  Macy. 
JERSEY  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  beat  5  minutes,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Flavoring.  Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 

72 


PLAIN  CAKE 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  \y2 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  cup  hot  milk.  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
melted  in  milk.  Beat  eggs  together  very  light,  beat  in  sugar  until 
light  yellow.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  stir 
into  mixture  alternating  with  the  milk  and  butter,  adding  desired 
flavoring.  Miss  Mira  B.  Culin. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 

Beat  y2  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add  \y2  cups  sugar  gradually, 
2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  water.  Then  add  2  cups  flour  and  beat  con- 
tinuously for  5  minutes.  Then  add  3  teaspoons  of  caramel,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  another  y2  cup  flour,  beat  again  thoroughly. 
Then  stir  in  carefully  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten.   Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling:  1  cup  sugar  and  y2  cup  water.  Place  over  fire  and 
stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  then  boil  without  stirring  until 
the  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  from  a  fork.  Stir  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs  in  boiling  syrup  and  beat  until  cool.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  2  teaspoons  caramel  syrup. 

Syrup:  Put  y2  cup  of  sugar  in  an  iron  or  granite  pan.  Stir 
it  continually  over  fire  until  the  sugar  first  softens,  then  melts 
and  finally  becomes  liquid  and  throws  off  an  intense  smoke,  it  really 
must  burn.  Have  ready  y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  remove  the  pan 
a  moment  from  the  fire,  throw  in  water  and  stir  rapidly  and  allow 
it  to  boil  to  a  syrup.    Bottle  it.    This  is  sufficient  for  3  cakes. 

Miss  Ada  Breckenridge. 

DATE  CAKE 

Beat  together  until  very  light  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  2  cups 
of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  allspice, 
y2  pound  of  dates  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  1J4  cups  of  grated  rye 
bread,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice.  The  whites  af  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  in 
layers  in  a  slow  oven.   Fill  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  Foster  Rhodes. 

SCOTCH  CAKE 

One-half  lb.  flour,  y±  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  raisins,  y2  lb.  chopped  nuts, 
pecan  or  English  walnuts,  *4  lb.  butter,  y2  cup  whiskey,  3  eggs. 
Sift  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Bake  slowly.    ((Keeps  well). 

MRS.  HUGUS'  WHITE  CAKE 
Three  quarters  cup  of  butter  creamed,  2y2  cups  of  sugar,  Zy2 
cups  of  flour,  ten  eggs  (whites),  ^  cup  of  milk,  \y2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  flavoring,  one  teaspoon. 

Miss  Louise  B.  Hugus. 

MRS.  VISSCHER'S  FRUIT  CAKE 

One  dozen  eggs,  1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  2 
lbs.  currants,  3  lbs.  raisins,  1  lb.  citron,  y2  lb.  dates,  y2  lb.  figs,  y2 
lb.  blanched  almonds,  1  tablespoon  mace,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
1  tablespoon  cloves,  y2  tablespoon  nutmeg,  1  coffee  cup  molasses,  1 
glass  Sherry,  1  glass  brandy,  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice.  Bake  very 
slowly  for  four  hours  or  till  done.  Do  not  turn  out  of  the  pan  it 
has  been  baked  in  until  the  next  day.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

73 


RAISIN  CAKE 

One  cup  sour  milk,  3  eggs,  \y2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 
teaspoons  baking  soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  cups  stoned 
raisins,  y2  grated  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  allspice.    Make  not  too  stiff  a  batter. 

Mrs.  David  A.  Conrad,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 
FRUIT  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  4 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda  stirred 
in  sour  milk,  1  large  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  some  sliced 
citron,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Miss  Barber. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  apple  sauce,  y2  cup 
raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  nuts,  1  cup  citron,  2  heaping  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  all  spices  except  cloves. 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Belford. 
APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE 

Soak  3  cups  dried  apples  in  as  little  water  as  possible  over 
night;  in  the  morning  chop  fine  and  cook  in  2  cups  molasses  till 
clear.  Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  add  4 
eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  sour  milk  with  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  it,  4  cups  sifted  flour  with  2y2  teaspoons  baking  soda,  add 
apples,  1  cup  raisins  well  floured,  1  cup  currants,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon.  Add  more  raisins  and 
citron  if  wanted  and  small  glass  cider.    Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Gardner. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  (one  white  reserved  for 
frosting),  one-quarter  of  cake  of  Baker's  (unsweetened)  chocolate, 
one  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons  vanilla,  two  cups  (very  full)  flour! 
one  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  (dissolved  in  little  water).  Boil  milk,' 
chocolate  and  one  cup  of  sugar  together  til  thickened.  Add  vanilla! 
then  mix  in  order  given  adding  the  chocolate  mixture  hot.  Bake 
in  two  jelly  tins  and  ice  with  boiled  icing  with  salt  spoon  of  cream 
of  tartar,  then  put  one  quarter  cake  of  chocolate,  (melted)  over  the 
whole  cake. 

Filling  for  Cake :  Half  pound  dates  and  half  or  whole  cup  of 
nut  meats.  Take  seeds  from  dates  and  chop  nut  meats.  Add  one- 
half  cup  granulated  sugar  and  a  little  water  and  boil  till  well 
done,  replenishing  water  if  necessary.  Dr.  Nixon. 

SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD 

One  pound  of  flour,  y2  pound  of  butter,  yA  pound  of  sugar,  yolk 
of  one  egg.  Mix  yolk  with  butter,  spread  ingredients  on  bread 
board  and  mold  flour  and  sugar  into  mixture  gradually,  kneading 
with  whole  weight  about  twenty  minutes.  Roll  out  %  of  an  inch, 
cut  in  small  squares,  decorate  with  narrow  strips  of  orange  peel 
or  citron.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an 
hour.   Serve  as  rich  cake.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Gibbs. 

74 


ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  and  one  of  milk,  and  the  whites  of  a  dozen 
eggs.  Cream  the  butter,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the 
milk  and  flour  and  then  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry. 

Mrs.  Rudolph  Schiffman. 

MARBLE  CAKE 

White  part :  Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  3  tea- 
cups flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  7  whites  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Dark  part:  One  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
molasses,  y2  cup  milk,  2y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  nutmeg,  y2  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  7  yolks  eggs.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

SPICE  AND  NUT  CAKES 
One  cup  very  sour  milk,  3  eggs,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  cloves 
(ground),  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teacup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1 
cup  of  nuts  (chopped  rather  coarse).    Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  T.  B.  Wright. 

GINGER  PUFFS 

One  cup  molasses,  or  y2  cup  molasses  and  y2  cup  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water  and  add  to  molasses,  y2  good 
cup  shortening,  lard  or  butter,  1  teaspoon  ginger.  Add  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter  and  bake  in  muffin  tins. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Nelson. 
AUNT  FANNY'S  TEA  CAKES 
Beat  thre  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  5  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  10  tablespoons  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  3  cups  of  flour.    Flavor  with  lemon  extract.    Bake  in 
patty  pans.  Mrs.  Lena  Getchine. 

GINGER  GEMS 
One-half  cups  sugar,  %  cups  butter,  y2  cups  molasses,  1%  cups 
flour,  y2  cups  hot  water,      teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  egg  beaten  lightly  added  last.  Bake 
in  gem  pans.  Mrs.  F.  C.  Morgan. 

TEA  CAKES 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 

2  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  (1 
cup  of  fruit  if  liked).  Put  together  in  usual  way  and  bake  in  gem 
or  muffin  pans. 

JUMBLES 

One-half  cup  butter,  one-third  cup  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten, 
cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  lemon  mixed  citron  or  al- 
monds. Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg,  flour  and  flav- 
oring extract.  Drop  in  half  teaspoon  on  buttered  flat  tin.  Spread 
thinly  with  knife  dipped  in  cold  water.  Put  three  thin  pieces  of 
citron  on  each  cake,  or  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  strips.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  They  should  be  very  thin  and  crisp.  As  the 
dough  is  very  thick,  room  must  be  given  to  spread  on  tips.  They 
will  keep  some  time.  Mrs.  Wm.  R.  Henderson. 

75 


SOUTHERN  NUT  CAKE 

One  lb.  flour  (heavy  weight),  1  lb.  butter  (light  weight),  1 
lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  pecans,  iy2  lbs  raisins,  %  lb.  citron,  2  nutmegs,  10 
eggs,  V/*  glass  whiskey,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  3 
hours.  Mrs.  Paul  S.  Honberger. 

BRITZEN  CAKE  WITH  MERINGUE  FROSTING 

Beat  y2  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  gradually  beat  in  y2  cup  sugar. 
4  egg  yolks  beaten  light,  3  tablespoons  milk,  and  1  cup  flour  well 
sifted  with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Spread  mixture  in  a  shallow 
baking  pan.  Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff  and  gradually  beat  into 
them  cup  powdered  sugar,  then  fold  in  y2  cup  of  almonds  blanch- 
ed and  chopped.  Spread  this  meringue  evenly  over  cak  mixture, 
dredge  top  with  sugar  and  bake  about  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 
APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

Four  small  or  2  large  apples.  Cream  y2  cup  of  butter  or  butter 
and  lard,  together.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar  gradually,  1  cup  of  warm 
apple  sauce,  iy  cups  of  flour  sifted,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y 
teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  y  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda,  y2 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  dried  fruits  mixed  with  2  or  more  table- 
spoons of  flour. 

Frosting:  One  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-third  cup 
boiling  water,  white  of  1  egg.  Put  sugar  and  water  in  sauce  pan 
and  stir  to  prevent  sugar  from  adhering  to  sauce  pan ;  heat  gradually 
to  boiling  point,  and  boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread 
when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  beaten 
white  of  egg,  beating  mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating 
until  of  right  consistency  to  spread ;  then  add  flavoring  and  pour 
over  cake,  spreading  evenly  with  back  of  spoon. 

Mrs.  Samuel  S.  Hinds. 
SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD 
One  pound  flour,  one-half  pound  butter,  one-fourth  pound 
sugar.  Work  all  together  until  it  forms  into  a  ball.  Roll  out  and 
cut  into  small  cakes,  or  leave  it  in  one  large  cake  if  preferred.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
Spread  with  chocolate  frosting.    Cut  in  strips  or  squares. 

Mrs.  Morris  Cohn. 
SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 
One  cup  of  good  baking  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  vinegar,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves.  When  all  is  well  beaten 
add  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  put  in  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Roberts. 

BLITZ  KUCHEN 

One  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  4  eggs 
well  beaten,  \y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla. 
Beat  well.  Bake  in  well  buttered  shallow  pans.  (Sprinkle  sugar 
and  cinnamon  on  cakes  before  baking). 

Mrs.  Elsinore  Machris. 

76 


HONEY  CAKE 

One  cup  honey,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  4  or  5  eggs,  6  bars  chocolate 
erated,  3  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  V2  teaspoon  cloves.  Mix  honey  and  sugar  first,  then  eggs 
then  chocolate  and  spices,  flour  and  baking  powder  last.  Spread 
as  thin  as  possible  in  pan  and  add  halves  of  walnuts.  Cut  in 
squares  when  baked.  Mrs.  Benjamin  Dilworth. 

CINNAMON  BUN 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  yolks,  milk,  flour  cinnamon, 
baking  powder  and  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 
When  baked,  turn  out  on  board  and  spread  with  butter.  While 
hot  sift  over  it  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon 

Mrs.  B.  E.  Page. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD 

One  lb  flour,  y2  lb  butter,  4  ounces  powdered  sugar,  yolk  of  one 
ezz  mix  egg  and  sugar.  Mix  butter  into  egg  and  sugar  mixture 
rub  flour  into  above  until  all  is  a  solid  mass.  You  cannot  knead  it 
too  much.  Roll  out  in  about  y2  inch  thick ;  bake  35  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven  on  a  greased  paper.  When  baked  rub  all  over  with  fine 
powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Joseph  Welsh. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  shorting,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  walnuts,  1 
cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda  (mix  with  flour),  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
y2  teaspoon  allspice,  1  cup  apple  sauce.   Bake  about  45  minutes. 
7         r  Miss  Schaufele. 

CINNAMON  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk  3  cups 
of  pastry  flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  full  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon. 

This  is  very  nice  served  hot  for  lunch. 

Mrs.  De  Witt  C.  Le  Fevre. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar  light  brown,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
5  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  4  cups  seedless  raisins,  y2  cup  citron,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  a  little  cloves. 

Mrs.  Philip  Auten. 

SPICE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  butter  creamed,  4  eggs  beaten 
separately,  y2  teaspon  each  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves,  1  cup  thick 
sour  cream,  1  level  teaspoon  soda  sifted  with  flour,  2  cups  flour, 
1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  pint  seeded  raisins,  1  pint  seedless  raisins, 
dredge  fruit  with  flour  before  adding  to  batter. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry,  Sierra  Madre,  Cal. 
MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 
Boil  until  it  hairs.   Add  2  tablespoons  marshmallow  whip.   Beat  it 
in  well.  Then  pour  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Miss  Helen  Boal. 

77 


TIPSY  CAKE 

.  Invert  a  round  loaf  of  angel  cake  on  a  plate  and  saturate  with 
sherry  or  sherry  and  madera  (a  half  pint  is  right  for  a  large  cake). 
Cover  to  the  thickness  of  an  inch  with  soft  creamy  frosting  and 
when  partially  hardened,  insert  candied  cherries,  bits  of  candied 
pineapple  and  blanched  almonds.  Mrs.  John  S.  Taylor. 

LIGHTNING  CAKE 
One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  sifting  in  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Fut  1  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  cup  and  break  in  2  eggs  then 
fill  cup  with  milk  and  flavor  with  vanilla.    This  makes  good' spice 
cake,  if  you  add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  each. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  H.  Macy. 
MAPLE  SUGAR  FROSTING 
Melt  a  10c  cake  of  maple  sugar  with  4  tablespoons  of  water 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil.   Whip  into  it  the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  McCrea,  Vancouver,  B.  C. 

Cookies 

BERLINER  KRANZ 

The  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  the  yolks  of  4  raw  eres  1 
pound  of  butter,  y2  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  2  pounds  of  flour 
(sometimes  one  needs  a  little  more  and  sometimes  a  little  less  than 
4  pounds).  First  mash  fine  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  now  rub 
the  butter  with  this,  then  the  sugar.  Next  the  beaten  raw  yolks  • 
when  they  are  m  mixture,  stir  as  little  as  possoble.  Now  add  sifted 
flour  and  work  in  with  hands  until  well  mixed.  Handle  lightly 
Roll  out  by  hand— form  into  "Krantz"  (wreaths)  or  pretzel  Dip 
one  side  of  cakes  into  whites  of  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  just 
a  little,  then  dip  m  sugar.  Bake  in  medium  oven,  about  12  minutes 
until  light  brown.  Mrs.  Wilhelm  Madsen. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS 
Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Then  six  tablespoons  of 
granulated  sugar  beaten  in  gradually.  Two  blocks  Baker's  choco- 
late grated,  and  folded  in  gently.  Then  add  a  small  bowl  of  chopped 
nuts,  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Drp  into  greased  pans  from  a 
teaspoon  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes,  tak- 
ing care  that  the  bottoms  are  well  done.  Do  not  remove' from 
pans  until  quite  cold.  Mrs.  Arthur  B.  Dodworth. 

GINGER  COOKIES 
1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  2 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt.   Heat  molasses 
to  almost  boiling  and  when  cool  add  other  ingredients.    Roll  very 
thin,  stiffen  with  flour.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Clinton  Churchill  Clarke. 
WALNUT  JUMBLES 
Two  eggs  well  beaten,  y2  pound  sugar,  one-third  teaspoon  salt, 
3  tablespoons  of  flour  with  one-third  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2 
pound  broken  walnut  meats  not  chopped.   Drop  in  small  spoonfulls 
on  buttered  pans.    Bake  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Belford. 

78 


CANADA  COOKIES 

One  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
2  tablespoons  whiskey,  AJ/2  cups  flour.  Mix  ingredients,  roll  thin 
and  bake.  Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 

BILLY  GOATS 
Two  cups  sugar,  1  cups  butter,  3  tablespoons  sour  cream  or 
buttermilk,  4  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  2  heaping  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  ]/2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  3  eggs,  beaten  separate,  2  cups  walnut  meats,  2  lbs.  dates. 
Sift  spices  with  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  yolks  into 
butter  and  sugar,  add  cream,  following  with  flour.  Drop  with 
spoon  into  baking  pan.  Miss  Schertz. 

NUT  WAFERS 
Mix  5  level  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour  with  a  pinch  of  baking 
powder  and  a  quarter  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sift  again.  Add  y2 
pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  nut  meats  broken  but  not 
chopped,  and  two  eggs  beaten  together.  Drop  on  well  buttered 
tins  from  a  teaspoon  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  pale  brown. 
Do  not  remove  from  tins  until  perfectly  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Hunker. 
ROLLED  OAT  COOKIES 
One  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar  creamed,  2  unbeaten  eggs,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  small  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons 
of  hot  water,  2  cups  of  rolled  oats  rubbed  between  the  hands,  2 
cups  flour  with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,,  1  lb.  dates,  few  raisins,  \y2  cups  chopped  English  walnut 
meats,  1  cup  flour  rubbed  with  the  chopped  fruit  and  nuts.  Drop 
from  spoon  on  greased  pan  and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  George  C.  Sharp. 
WALNUT  COOKIES 
One  cup  shelled  walnuts,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  one-third  tea- 
spoon salt,  3  level  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  eggs.    Beat  eggs.  Add 
flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  last  of  all  nuts.    Bake  in  very  hot  oven  about 
five  minutes.  Miss  Rena  Ross. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 
One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  creamed,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  milk,  y2  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  in  1  cup  flour.    Then  add  enough  more  flour  to  roll  easily. 
Roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  bake.  Mrs.  H.  T.  Fuller. 

GRANDMA'S  DIAMOND  COOKIES 
Two  cups  of  sour  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  pinch  of  salt,  1 
pinch  of  soda.  Beat  together  until  smooth,  then  work  in  flour  as 
for  pie  crust — roll  out  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust.  Moisten  top 
with  milk  and  vanilla.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  cut  into 
diamonds.  Mrs.  Ester  Mack. 

ANISE  KISSES 
One  lb.  pulverized  sugar  and  5  eggs.    1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, flavor  with  anise.    Flour  enough  to  stiffen.    Drop  by  small 
spoons  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  Miss  L.  E.  Kugel. 

ANISE  COOKIES 
Two  eggs  and  %  lb.  sugar  beaten  well  together  for  15  min- 
utes; then  add      lb-  flour  and  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  1 
teaspoon  anise  seed.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 

79 


COOKIES 

One  cup  butter  (large),  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  thicken.    Roll  very  thin. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Cruickshank. 
NUT  STRIPS 

(To  serve  with  tea  or  lemonade.)  1  cup  brown  sugar  sifted,  2 
eggs  well  beaten,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder,  '%  teaspoon  salt,  1 
cup  nut  meats  (broken).  The  mixture  is  soft  not  stiff.  Pour  into 
flat  tin  and  when  baked  cut  in  strips. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Stehman. 
MARGUERITES 

One  cup  almonds  blanched,  dried  and  chopped,  2  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bremners  butter 
wafers,  salted  or  saltine  wafers.  Boil  sugar  with  about  4  teaspoons 
water  until  it  strings  like  boiled  frosting.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
very  stiff,  and  gradually  pour  in  the  syrup,  beating  it  well.  When 
cold  add  the  almonds  and  vanilla.  Put  a  teaspoon  of  mixture  on 
each  cracker  and  put  in  a  pan  on  upper  shelf  of  oven  to  brown 
lightly  and  quickly  like  kisses.  Mrs.  David  B.  Gamble. 

FRUIT  COOKIES 
One-half  cup  shortening,  cup  sugar,  mix  well.  Add  2  eggs 
beaten  together.  One  teaspoon  baking  soda,  3  tablespoons  hot 
water,  mix  and  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  cup 
chopped  nuts,  %  cup  currants,  J4  cup  raisins.  Drop  by  spoon  on 
lightly  greased  pans.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Priscilla  Allen. 
ENGLISH  TEA  BISCUIT 
One  half  cup  raisins,  \y2  cup  flour,  y2  cup  sugar,  2  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  butter,  1  egg,  2y2 
tablespoons  milk.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  raisins,  then 
the  butter,  and  mix  with  finger  tips  as  you  would  for  biscuits.  Add 
the  well  beaten  egg.  Save  1  tablespoon  of  egg  with  which  to  glaze 
the  tops.  Add  milk.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Brush 
top  with  egg  and  bake.    Serve  hot  with  melted  butter. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  McCrea,  Vancouver,  B.  C. 
DROP  COOKIES 
One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  y2  cup  butter,  one-third  cup  milk, 
1  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  walnuts.  Drop 
on  buttered  tins,  bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  T.  D.  Wayne. 

HOLLAND  COOKIES 
One  quart  of  honey,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of 
thick  sour  cream,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  pound 
of  almonds  chopped  fine,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  chopped  fine, 
one  even  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  tablespoon  of  cloves, 
one-half  tablespoon  of  allspice,  one  even  tablespoon  of  salt,  one- 
half  nutmeg.   Can  use  golden  syrup  in  place  of  honey. 

Mrs.  Lena  Getchine. 
WALNUT  WAFERS 
Two  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  wal- 
nuts, pinch  salt,  4  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  y  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry,  Sierra  Madre,  Cal. 
80 


NEW  YORK  GINGER  SNAPS 

Take  one-half  pound  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  two  and 

kept. 

NUT  COOKIES 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  small  egg  and  one  cup  of  brown  sugar 
creamed,  1  egg  beaten  together,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  salt,  1 
arg™  ablespo^n  of  flour.    Grease  pans  and  drop  very  small  drop* 
of  dousrh  far  apart.   Bake  in  slow  oven.       Miss  H.  B.  wood, 
twenty cupsitf  Sbhe.cVH .  r.  gstir  ,rH6N  etaoi  shrdlu  shrdlu 

SCOTCH  COOKIES 
Take  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter  (half  lard  may 
be  used),  two  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  molasses  one-half  pint  of 
water,  one-  teaspoon  of  soda,  spices  to  suit  thetaste^ 

CREAM  SCONES 

Two  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  sugar, 
J4  tearpooTsalt,  4  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs,  one-third  cup  cream. 
Roll  on  floured  board.  Cut  in  squares,  brush  wi^whrt^of  egg, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  15  minutes.  This 
recipe  also  makes  a  good  dough  for  short^ake.^  MacFarland_ 

OATMEAL  DROPS 

One  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  vaS,  2/2  cups  Quaker  Oats,  2  tablespoons  baking 
powder.    Drop  this  batter  by  the  te^oons^on  buttered  pan. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  pound  of  almonds  and  the 
whites  of  ten  eggs.   Bake  in  wafers  on  brown 

WALNUT  WAFERS 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  three  rounding  tablespoons 
flour  pinch  of  salt,  two  cups  chopped  walnuts  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins.  Very^low  oven^^ 

BRAN  COOKIES 

Three  cups  bran,  3  cups  graham  flour,  J/2  cup  molasses  3  table- 
spoons melted  butter.  Roll  on  slightly  floured  board  Cut  ^  inch 
thick  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Henry  Vilas. 

SPRINGERLIE 

Four  eesrs  and  1  lb.  powdered  sugar  beaten  together  one  hour. 
One-half  teaspoon  baking  powder  or  powdered  bartshorn.n  one 
pound  of  flour.    Flavor  with  anise  extract  to  suit  taste    bet  in  a 

"place  for  an  hour  or  more.  Then  mold 
Sprinkle  the  mold  with  flour  and  impress  it  on  dough    Trim  e ages 
and  shake  them  out  and  separate.    Put  in  pans  and  bake  the  fol 
lowing  morning  in  a  very  slow  oven  (about  20  minutes.)  Anise 
seed  can  be  sprinkled  in  pans  if  desired.  ^  ^  S.Curtis. 

81 


SCONES 

One  and  one-half  pints  sifted  flour,  3  scant  tablespoons  butter 
3  level  desert  spoons  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
raisins  or  currants.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  sugar  bak- 
ing powder  and  raisins.  Add  eggs  without  beating.  Add  enough 
milk  to  make  a  very  wet  dough.  Roll  out  y2  inch  thick.  Cut  with 
biscuit  cutter,  and  brush  over  with  syrup  made  of  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar  mixed  with  %  cup  of  milk.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Serve  hot 
for  afternoon  tea. 

Miss  Christianna  Clark,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 
SODA  KISSES 

One  cup  butter,  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs 
beaten,  y2  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Work  very  stiff  with  flour  and  make  small 
balls  with  hands  (size  of  hickory  nut).  Pat  a  little  before  putting 
in  greased  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar  while  warm.  Miss  L  E  Kugel 

HERMITS 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  chopped 
raisins,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
tablespoon  of  boiling  water.   Flour  to  thicken.   Drop  from  a  spoon. 

Wong  (Kayser.) 

COCOA  FLUFFS 

1 1/  2nefl°Urthi  ?P  butter'  1  °"p  sugar'  2  e^s'  V*  CUP  sweet  milk, 
1/2  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  (scant),  5  level  teaspoons  cocoa, 

It  ^spoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  well,  add  milk,  flour  and  cocoa  and 
beat  until  very  light  Line  the  bottoms  with  paper  and  grease  the 
sides  of  gem  pan.  Now  add  the  vanilla  and  baking  powder  and 
mix  well.  Then  add  carefully  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  Fill 
gem  pans  half  full  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Hazel  Stone. 

GINGER  COOKIES 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  butter,  V2  cup  lard  1 
cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  flour  to  mix  as  soft  as  possible  to  roll. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Goodrich. 
CHOCOLATE  KISSES 

™  ySe^°nly  thf  W1hite"  of  three  e££s'  wel1  beaten>  1  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  1  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Bake  in  muffin  pans.  Mrs.  Lena  Getchine. 

CHOCOLATE  CHIPS 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  honey,  1  tablespoon  brandy, 
ground  doves,  1  tablespoon  chocolate,  y2  cup  citron 
chopped  fine  2-3  of  a  cup  chopped  almonds,  \y2  to  2  cups  flour, 
a  little  salt.   Pour  into  pan,  spreading  it  less  than  an  inch  thick. 

Mrs.  Morris  Cohn. 

82 


Pies 


No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 

As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies. 

PIE  CRUST 

Three  cups  flour,  1  cup  lard,  and  a  little  salt.  Sift  flour,  add 
lard  and  chop  with  a  knife,  add  a  little  ice  water  and  roll  out.  Do 
not  handle.  This  will  make  two  pies.      Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 

IDEA  FOR  MERINGUE 

When  preparing  meringue  for  pies,  etc.,  add  baking  powder 
to  the  beaten  whites  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  teaspoonM  to 
each  egg.    It  will  rise  in  the  oven  and  the  meringue  will  be  im- 
proved Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 
MOTHER  BANG'S  LEMON  PIE  1881 

Mix  4  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  with  cold  water  to  a  cream, 
add  y2  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pour  on  3  cups  of  boiling  water  in  an 
earthen  dish  which  will  allow  the  starch  to  boil  clear.  Stir  in 
2  dessert  spoons  of  butter,  juice  of  2  large  lemons  and  2  cups  of 
sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  These  are 
added  to  the  hot  starch.  Line  two  pie  plates  with  a  rich  crust 
and  bake.  Fill  with  the  lemon  mixture  and  immediately  put  in 
a  hot  oven.  Ten  minutes  ought  to  bake  them.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  three  teaspoons  fine  sugar.  This 
makes  two  large  pies.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Torrance. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  FOR  PIE 

Mix  y2  cup  of  cocoa,  y2  cup  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs, 
2  cups  milk,  yA  cup  corn  starch.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it 
thickens.  When  cold  add  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a 
baked  pie  crust.  Use  2  egg  whites,  and  1  tablespoon  sugar  for 
a  meringue.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Mary  Greathouse. 
CUSTARD  FILLING  FOR  PIE 

Three  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
vanilla,  y2  package  of  cocoanut  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Charles  S.  Mitchell. 
CHOCOLATE   CREAM  PIE 

Three  eggs,  \y2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  lemon. 
Bake  quickly  in  deep  tins. 

Cream  Filling:  One  pint  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  chocolate,  cook  in  double  boiler  till  a 
thick  custard.  Mrs.  George  W.  Witherell. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  PIE 

One  cup  of  cheese,  3  eggs,  beating  in  one  at  a  time,  1  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Butter  pie  plate,  shake  on  corn 
meal,  leaving  on  for  under  crust  as  much  corn  meal  as  sticks  to 
plate.  Pour  in,  grating  a  little  nutmeg  on  top.  No  upper  crust. 
Bake.  Mrs.  Walter  Raymond. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

One  cup  chopped  rhubarb,  \y2  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Bake  with  under  crust  and  frost  with  beaten  whites  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Witherell. 

83 


LEMON  PIE 

Four  soda  crackers,  2  eggs,  \y2  cups  sugar,  \y2  cups  boiling 
water,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  or  more  if  desired.  Roll  crackers 
fine,  pour  on  boiling  water.  When  cool,  add  beaten  eggs,  sugar, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemons.  Use  this  as  filling  for  pie.  Bake 
about  25  minutes.  Mrs.  Clinton  Churchill  Clarke. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

Melt  y2  cup  of  butter  in  1  cup  of  hot  water  and  while  boiling 
beat  in  1  cup  of  flour.  Then  take  off  the  stove  and  cool.  When 
cold  stir  in  3  eggs,  one  at  a  time  without  beating.  Drop  on  tins 
quickly  and  bake  about  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cream:  One-half  pint  milk,  1  egg,  3  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Boil  the  same  as  any  mock  cream.  Flavor  to  taste.  When  baked 
open  sides  of  each  puff  and  fill  with  cream.  If  preferred  use 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

SQUASH  PIE 

One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  scant  teaspoon  ginger,  y2  teaspoon  allspice,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  pepper,  1  cup  squash,  1  cup  milk. 

Mrs.  William  S.  McCay. 
ASTOR  HOUSE  MINCE  MEAT 
Four  pounds  of  lean  boiled  beef  chopped  fine,  twice  as  much 
of  chopped  green  tart  apples,  1  pound  of  chopped  suet,  3  pounds 
of  raisins,  seeded,  2  pounds  of  currants,  picked  over,  washed  and 
dried,  J/2  pound  of  citron,  cut  up  fine,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  1 
quart  of  cooking  molasses,  2  quarts  of  sweet  cider,  1  pint  of  boiled 
cider,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon 
of  mace,  1  tablespoon  of  allspice,  and  4  tablespoons  of  cinnamon, 

2  grated  nutmegs,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves;  mix  thoroughly  and 
warm  it  on  the  range  until  heated  through.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  when  nearly  cool  stir  in  a  pint  of  good  brandy  and  one 
pint  of  Madeira  wine.    Seal  hot  in  fruit  jars. 

CREAM  PIES 

One  and  one-half  pints  milk,  3  tablespoons  corn  starch,  3  eggs, 
reserving  whites  of  two,  about  y2  cup  sugar  (to  taste).  Heat  milk 
to  boiling  point.  Mix  other  ingredients  and  stir  into  milk  until 
thick.  Line  two  pans  with  pie  crust  and  bake.  Then  fill  with 
mixture,  frosting  on  top  and  bake  light  brown.  For  frosting, 
beat  whites  and  add  about  %  cup  sugar. 

Mrs.  John  Gilbert  Blue. 
RAISIN  PIE 

One  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  water,  7  heaping 
tablespoons  flour,  small  lump  butter.  Boil  raisins  in  the  water 
for  five  minutes,  add  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  little  water,  add 
sugar  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Stir  in  butter.  Bake  with 
under  crust,  with  strips  over  top.  Mrs.  George  H.  Frost. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Take  medium  size  pumpkin,  peel  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Boil  until  tender;  rub  through  colander;  6  eggs  well  beaten,  4 
cups  of  sugar,  4  teaspoons  of  ground  ginger,  3  nutmegs,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Mix  together  and  pour  into  a  plate  lined  with  pie 
crust.    Bake  about  y2  hour.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Benson. 

84 


The  HALLMARK  Store 

of  QUALITY 


Jewelers         Silversmiths  Stationers  Opticians 

J.  HERBERT  HALL  CO. 

96  East  Colorado  Street 


B  B 


COCOANUT  CREAM  FILLING 

One-half  cup  cocoanut,  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  1  small  cup  of 
sugar  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  (little  more  than  level).  Heat 
mifk  and  cocoanut  in  double  boiler,  add  sugar  and  eggs,  mixed 
well  together  Then  add  corn  starch.  For  a  meringue  use  the 
2  egg  whites  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.^  &^  ^ 

NEW  ENGLAND  LEMON  PIE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  and 
cream  as  for  cake  3  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Rub  smooth  in  butter  and  sugar.  Then  add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
"d  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff  Bake  the  crust  and  filling  at  same  time,  in  very  slow  oven, 
about  one  hour.  Mrs.  Clarence  A.  Blood. 

MEATLESS  MINCE  MEAT 
One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  by  hand,  A 
neck  choooed  apples,  2  pounds  seeded  raisins,  2  tablespoons  salt,  2 
LblespooPnPs  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  nutmeg 
1  cup  vinegar,  2  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  pound  white  sugar,  a  little 
sherry  wine  if  desired.  Cook  slowly  a  long  time,  from  one  to 
two  hours.  Mrs-  L-  G-  Franklm- 

Hot  Desserts 

The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating.— Shakespeare. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 

Two  cups  toasted  bread  crumbs,  y2  cup  butter  melted  and 
added  to  the  crumbs.  Let  stand  one-half  hour.  One-half  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  y2  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  J4  teaspoon  soda  1  egg  beaten 
separately.   Steam  one  hour.  Mrs.  L.  P.  Crawford. 

JELLY  PUDDING 

One  glass  currant  jelly,  2  glasses  of  water,  4  tablespoons  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Boil  jelly  with  water  until 
melted  Add  corn  starch  and  pour  into  mold.  Serve :  with  thin 
custard  sauce.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 

o5 


WHEN  BUYING  APPLES 

ASK  FOR 

BEAUMONT  APEX  brand 

AWARDED  FIVE  BLUE  RIBBONS 

Riverside  County  Fair  1914 

B  m 


CHESTNUT  APPLES 

Mash  French  chestnuts  steamed  through  colander  with  butter 
Take  the  center  out  of  tart  apples,  sugar  them,  fill  with  the  mashed 
chestnuts.,  put  a  bit  of  butter  and  sugar  at  the  hole  on  top.  Bake 
like  ordinary  baked  apples.    Serve  with  game  course. 

Mrs.  Eben  P.  Clapp. 
DELMONICO  APPLES 
Two  quarts  apples,  y2  pound  almonds,  \y2  dozen  macaroons 
btew  apples,  work  fine,  sweeten  to  taste.    Place  layer  of  apples 
m  buttered  dish  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  then  layer  nuts  and 
macaroons  chopped  together.     Fill  dish  with  alternate  layers 
ending  with  apples.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  John  Gilbert  Blue. 
STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING 
Fill  pudding  dish  half  full  of  sliced  tart  apples.  Add  2  tea- 
cups water,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  2  teacups 
Hour  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  butter  Rub 
together— add  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  the 
dough  Have  the  fruit  boiling  hot  and  cover  with  dough.  Steam 
for  y2  hour,  tightly  covered.    To  be  eaten  with  a  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  George  Mills. 
CARROT  PUDDING 
One  cup  suet.  1  cup  grated  potatoes.  1  cup  grated  carrots,  \V2 
cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  sugar  (brown)  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  salt    1  tea- 
spoon soda.    Steam  three  hours.  Miss  Mabel  L.  Gould. 

DATE  PUDDING 
Three-fourths  cup  chopped  dates,  1  cup  broken  nut^   1  cup 
sugar tiy2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs  (whites  last),  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.    Bake  and  eat  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Bragdon. 

ORANGE  PUFFS 

One  tablespoon  butter,  2-3  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1%  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  juice  of  f  orange.  Bake  in  muffin 
tins  m  moderate  oven. 

Sauce:    Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  add  gradually  2-3 
cup  powdered  sugar  and  then  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange- 
Mrs.  S.  N.Frey. 

PEACH  PUDDING 

Soak  1  cup  dried  bread  crumbs  in  1  pint  boiling  milk  A.dd 
I  tablespoon  melted  butter,  */2  cup  sugar  and  5  beaten  eggs.  Mash 
Z  cups  rich  canned  peaches,  and  stir  into  mixture.  Steam  two 
hours,    berve  with  cream  and  sugar.        Mrs.  G.  W  Gilbert 

86 


BLACK  PUDDING 

One-half  cup  butter,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  creamed  together; 
then  add  1  cup  N.  O.  molasses,  >4  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  soda,  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  1  cup  raisins,  iy2  cups  flour  (sift 
before  measuring).  Last  beat  3  eggs  very  light  and  stir  thor- 
oughly.   Steam  in  tight  mold  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Richard  H.  Alexander. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

Four  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  J/2  cup 
milk,  iy8  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  1-3  squares 
chocolate  melted,  %  teaspoon  salt,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites  of  2 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten 
yolks  and  the  other  ingredients  in  the  order  named.  Bake  in 
angel  food  tin.    Serve  with  chocolate  sauce  and  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  Sauce:  Boil  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water  and  a  few 
grains  of  cream  of  tartar  to  a  thin  syrup.  Add  one  square  of 
melted  chocolate  and  y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Butler. 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 

One  cup  persimmon  pulp,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  yA  teaspoon  ground 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  level  teaspoons  soda,  1%  cups 
flour.  Beat  well,  pour  in  buttered  pan,  set  in  dish  containing 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Ford. 

LEMON  PUDDING  BAKED 

Ingredients  for  pudding  for  six  persons.  The  rinds  and  juice 
of  2  large  lemons,  8  ounces  powdered  sugar,  y2  pint  cream,  yolks 
of  8  eggs,  2  ounces  almonds,  8  ounces  butter  melted.  Mix  the 
powdered  sugar  with  the  cream.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
butter  which  should  be  previously  warmed.  Blanch  and  pound 
the  almonds,  put  these  with  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemons 
and  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  well  together.  Line  a  dish  with 
puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture.    Bake  one  hour. 

Caroline  Tuckey. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING 

Mix  well  together  y2  coffee  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  milk,  %  cup 
butter,  \y2  cups  graham  or  whole  wheat  flour,  1  small  cup  raisins 
dredged,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  beaten  egg,  spice  to  taste,  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  or  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  steam  3  hours,  serve  with 
liquid  sauce.  Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Gardner. 

JOHNNIE'S  DELIGHT 

Two  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  y2  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet 
milk  with  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  egg,  1  cup  raisins,  >4  cup  melted 
butter,  juice  1  lemon,  spices  to  taste.  Steam  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry,  Sierra  Madre,  Cal. 

STEAMED  BREAD  PUDDING 

One  quart  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  1  cup 
raisins,  1  cup  nuts,  small  quarter  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  level 
teaspoon  soda.   Steam  three  hours.   Serve  with  egg  or  wine  sauce. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Wheldon. 

87 


SPONGE  PUDDING 

Rub  together  to  a  paste  a  quarter  cup  of  butter  and  y2  cup 
of  sifted  flour.  Scald  a  pint  of  milk,  add  a  little  of  this  to  the 
paste,  work  in  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  turn  this  quickly  into 
the  hot  milk  and  stir  till  it  forms  a  very  thick  smooth  batter. 
Continue  to  stir  for  three  minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  cover  and 
set  aside  till  half  cooled.  Separate  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
beating  each  till  very  light.  Beat  the  yolks  into  the  batter  and 
lightly  stir  in  the  whipped  whites.  Turn  into  a  deep,  well-greased 
dish,  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  covering  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes.  Serve  with  a  hard  sauce  into  which  has  been  whipped 
with  much  beating  one  crushed  banana. 

Mrs.  C.  P.  Williams. 

PUDDING  SAUCE 

Two  eggs ;  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately  until  light.  Add 
y2  cup  sugar,  nutmeg  and  vanilla  and  beat  all  together  until  light 
and  foamy.  Mrs.  Chas.  D.  Lockwood. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

One  pound  suet,  1  pound  currants,  1  pound  stoned  raisins,  1 
pound  sugar,  5  or  8  eggs,  y2  a  grated  nutmeg,  2  ounces  sliced 
candied  peel,  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger,  y2  pound  bread  crumbs, 
y2  pound  flour,  y2  pint  milk,  1  wine  glass  brandy.  Chop  the  suet 
finely.  Mix  with  it  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  well  together,  and 
add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Press  the  pudding  into  a 
buttered  dish.  Tie  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  five  or  six  hours. 
Serve  with  brandy  sauce.  Mrs.  Mary  B.  Richardson. 

CANARY  PUDDING 

The  weight  of  3  eggs  in  sugar  and  butter,  the  weight  of  2  eggs 
in  flour,  the  rind  of  1  small  lemon,  3  eggs.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream. 
Add  sugar  and  finely  minced  lemon  peel  and  gradually  dredge  in 
the  flour,  keeping  the  mixture  well  stirred.  Beat  the  eggs;  add 
these  to  the  pudding.  Beat  all  together  for  five  minutes;  put  in 
a  buttered  mold;  steam  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce 
or  lemon  sauce.  Caroline  Tuckey. 

QUEEN   OF  PUDDINGS 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  extract  lemon.  Bake,  spread 
with  layer  of  fruit  jelly.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  spread  on  top  of 
pudding  and  brown.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  Houston. 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

One-half  pound  bread  crumbs,  1-3  pound  mashed  potatoes,  % 
pound  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  cup  of  molasses,  2  cups 
raisins  or  figs.    Steam  three  hours.      Mrs.  Helen  M.  Belford. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

One-half  dozen  ripe  bananas,  peeled  and  scraped,  cut  in  half 
across  the  middle.  Place  in  a  deep  granite  pan.  Add  y2  cup 
sugar,  y2  cup  water,  small  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Bake  until  soft 
and  brown.  Serve  with  meat  course.  If  bananas  are  dry,  more 
syrup  may  be  needed.  Mrs.  David  B.  Gamble. 

88 


COMPLIMENTS 


of 


A  FUSENOTCO 


□  ED 


PUDDING  SAUCE 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  ]4  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup 
hot  milk,  2  tablespoons  sherry  or  brandy. 

Mrs.  Harry  Allen. 

KISS  PUDDING 

One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons corn  starch.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  turn 
into  a  baking  dish.  Whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  very  stiff.  Add 
1  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  over  the 
pudding.  Sprinkle  with  cocoanut.  Brown  in  oven.  There  will  be 
iuice  enough  in  bottom  to  serve  for  sauce. 
J  te  Mrs.  Stevens  Halsted. 

POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING 

One  cup  seeded  and  cut  raisins  (if  cut  with  scissors  they 
are  lighter  than  when  chopped),  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  a  little  salt.  Mix  with  flour  until  a  little  stiffer  than 
fritters.  Steam  two  mours.  Serve  with  foamy  sauce.  Good  warmed 
over,  or  sliced  cold.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Ames. 

SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
Zy2  cups  flour,  1  cup  fruit,  1  teaspoon  soda.    Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce:  One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  y2  cup  butter.  Stir  to  a 
cream     Then  add  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  1  teaspoon 

vanilla.  Mrs-  R-  H«  BoaL 

89 


HONEYCOMB  PUDDING 

One-half  cup  flour,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  2  ounces  butter 
4  eggs,  1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt.  Beat  yolks 
very  light,  combine  with  sugar,  salt  and  molasses.  Flour  smooth 
with  milk,  butter  (melted),  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  soda,  com- 
bine. Put  together  and  into  buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake  U 
hour  in  not  too  hot  oven.  " 

Sauce:  One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream 
add  yolk  of  1  egg.  Whip  1  cup  of  cream,  add  white  of  1  egg  beaten 
stiff  and  stir  into  sugar.  Mrs.  Susie  M.  Hamilton 

STEAMED   CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

One-fourth  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  2VA 
cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  squares  chocolate  (melted).    Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce:  One-fourth  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar 
beaten  together,  2  tablespoons  cream  added  slowly,  1-3  teaspoon 
lemon,  2-3  teaspoon  vanilla.    Let  same  harden  before  using. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Boadwav. 
RAISIN  PUFFS 

Two  eggs,  1-3  cup  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  2  cups  flour  (scant),  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  chopped 
raisins,  Steam  half  an  hour  in  small  cups.  Enough  for  eight  or 
nine.  & 

.uSaUCti?r  ^ffs:    0ne  cup  su£ar-'  V2  CUP  butter  melted  to- 
gether.   Add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  just  before  serving  add  whites 
well  beaten.    Season  to  taste.  Mrs.  John  Gilbert  Blue 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE 

One  cup  chopped  prunes,  stir  in  y2  cup  granulated  sugar  1 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Steam  for 
one  hour  m  buttered  mold.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Kirk  Reynolds. 
PUDDING  SAUCE 

One  and  one-half  cups  pulverized  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs  Beat 
together  until  very  light.  Add  a  little  sherry  wine  and  just  before 
serving  add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Philip  Auten. 


Cold  Desserts 


"An't  please  your  Honor,"  quoth  the  peasant, 
This  same  dessert  is  very  pleasant." — Pope. 

FIG  PUDDING 

One  cup  chopped  figs,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup 
bread  crumbs,  2  cups  flour  (small;,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
teaspoon  soda  m  hot  water,  2  eggs,  well  beaten.    Pour  in  round 
tins  and  steam  two  hour.    Will  keep  several  weeks.    When  served 
warm  by  steaming  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce:  One-half  cup  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  cup  milk.  Cook  all  together,  thicken  and  add  beaten 
whites  when  cool,  or  a  hard  sauce  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  Harrison  B.  Riley,  Evanston,  111. 
90 


DATE  AND  PECAN  PUDDING 

1  lb.  dates,  1  cup  pecan  or  English  walnut  meats,  1  cup  sugar, 
2  well  beaten  eggs.  Few  drops  vanilla  extract.  Chop  nutmeats 
fine,  and  add  chopped  dates,  then  add  sugar  and  beaten  eggs. 
Spread  on  pie  tin  and  bake  very  slowly  till  brown.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream.    This  serves  six  people.    Will  keep  a  week. 

Mrs.  Harrison  B.  Riley,  Evanston,  111. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Line  a  mold  with  lady  fingers.  Brush  the  edges  of  each  with 
the  white  of  an  egg ;  stand  them  upright  all  around  a  mold.  Place 
them  close  enough  together  to  stick  to  each  other.  Whip  1  pint 
of  cream  to  a  froth ;  flavor  with  Sherry ;  add  to  Sherry  1  teaspoon 
of  gelatine  previously  dissolved  in  cold  water,  adding  a  little  hot 
water  to  melt  gelatine  before  adding  to  cream.  Add  2  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar.  Whip  all  together,  pour  in  mold.  Cool  in  ice 
chest — turn  out  and  garnish  with  candied  cherries  and  whipped 
cream.  Caroline  Tuckey. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING 

One  can  of  pineapple,  1  pint  cream,  4  ounces  sugar,  1  envelope 
gelatine  and  1  teaspoon  (Knox's)  gelatine.  Cut  the  pineapple  in 
small  squares,  heat  it  with  the  sugar  and  the  juice.  Add  the  soaked 
gelatine  and  when  it  is  cool,  the  whipped  cream.  When  it  gets 
stiff  and  the  pineapple  does  not  fall  to  the  bottom,  fill  the  mold. 
Serve  ice  cold  with  cream.  Mrs.  Carl  Hellstrom. 

GRAPE  JUICE  SOUFFLE 

One  pint  Welch's  grape  juice,  1  cup  white  sugar,  y2  pint  whip- 
ping cream,  2  tablespoons  gelatine,  juice  of  1  lemon,  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Dissolve  grape  juice,  lemon,  sugar  and  gelatine  in  double 
boiler.  Let  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  add  whites  of  eggs 
well  beaten.  Then  pour  half  of  mixture  into  mold,  and  let  the 
second  half  stay  in  bowl  or  dish  until  it  sets  again.  Whip  your 
cream  and  mix  with  second  half.  Then  pour  it  over  the  first  half. 
When  ready  to  serve  it  you  will  find  the  foundation  a  deep  violet 
color  with  a  fluffy  top  crust  of  light  violet.  Garnish  with  whipped 
cream  delicately  flavored  with  vanilla,  or  serve  plain  as  preferred. 

Mrs.  Elliot  Gibbs. 
"3  IN   1"  DESSERT 

Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  crust  and  fill  with  the  following 
mixture :  Mix  1  cup  of  sugar  with  two  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour,  add  pinch  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  (melted),  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  1  large  lemon,  1 
cup  of  milk  or  water,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  half 
an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Delicate  cake  forms  on  top  with  lemon 
filling  between.  May  be  served  as  a  pie  with  meringue,  as  cake  by 
merely  frosting  or  as  pudding  by  serving  with  lemon  sauce. 

Miss  Mira  B.  Culin. 
MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 
spoon  gelatine  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  water.    Beat  eggs  stiff, 
add  sugar  gradually,  dissolve  gelatine  over  hot  water  and  add  to 
eggs.    Set  on  ice  to  harden.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  vanilla.    You  could  add  crushed  fruit  or  fruit  juice. 

Mrs.  Howard  J.  Fish. 

91 


For  Thirty  Years— 

NOTHING  BUT  GOOD  SHOES! 


Exclusive  agents  for  famous  Laird- Schober 
shoes  for  women  and  children.  Complete 
assortments  of  models  appropriate  for  street, 
dress   or  evening  wear  at   popular  prices. 


HOSIERY 
McCallum's  Women's  pure  thread 
silk  hosiery.  Black  and 
colors.   Unusual  value. 


a  $1  00 


EVENING  SLIPPERS 
Gorgeous  evening  slippers  in  all  the 
latest  models.  Ex- 
clusive creations. 


$5^ 


BROADWAY  AT  FOURTH 

LOS  ANGELES 


"SUNDAY  DESSERT" 

Bake  into  a  plain  sponge  cake  in  a  square  tin.  Cut  into  small 
squares,  splitting  each  square.  Take  1  cup  sugar  and  one-third 
cup  of  water.  Boil  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water,  then  pour  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Beat 
hard,  and  when  cool  and  foamy,  put  between  and  on  top  of  the 
layers  of  sponge  cake.  Place  each  square  on  the  plate  on  which 
it  is  to  be  served,  and  around  it  put  about  half  a  dozen  extra  fine 
strawberries  or  raspberries.  The  frosting  should  remain  soft,  and 
run  out  around  the  berries.  This  dessert  should  be  baked  on  the 
day  it  is  to  be  used,  and  should  be  eaten  with  a  fork. 

Mrs.  H.  I.  Stuart. 
CREAMED  PINEAPPLE 

Nothing  in  the  way  of  a  sweet  concoction  is  more  delicious 
than  creamed  pineapple  if  it  is  properly  prepared.  The  fresh 
fruit  is  best  for  this  dish.  Peel  and  grate  one  medium-sized  ripe 
pineapple,  then  to  the  pulp  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon — which  by 
the  way  is  a  pleasing  addition  to  pineapple  in  any  form.  Have 
ready  half  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Strain  into 
the  fruit  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  let  partially 
congeal.  Meanwhile,  dry-whip  a  pint  of  rich  cream.  When  the 
fruit  and  gelatine  mixture  begins  to  thicken  fold  in  the  cream  and 
return  to  the  refrigerator  to  become  firm.  Remove  and  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Edwards. 

92 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

Four  cups  scalded  milk,  5  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  y2  cup  sugar.  Put  sugar  in  omelet  pan,  stir  constantly 
over  hot  part  of  range  until  melted  to  a  syrup  of  light  brown 
color.  Add  gradually  to  milk,  being  careful  that  milk  does  not 
bubble  up  and  go  over,  as  is  liable  on  account  of  high  temperature 
of  sugar.  As  soon  as  sugar  is  melted  in  milk,  add  mixture  gradually 
to  eggs  slightly  beaten;  add  salt  and  flavoring,  then  strain  in 
buttered  mold.  Bake  as  custard.  Chill,  and  serve  with  Caramel 
Sauce. 

Caramel  Sauce:  One-half  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  boiling  water. 
Melt  sugar  as  for  Caramel  Custard,  add  water,  simmer  ten  minutes ; 
cool  before  serving.  Mrs.  F.  H.  Randall. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

One-fourth  pound  blanched  almonds,  1  dozen  marshmallows, 

1  dozen  candied  cherries,  y2  dozen  macaroons,  1  pint  whipped 
cream,  1  round  tablespoon  gelatine,  *4  cup  cold  water,  %  cup 
boiling  water.  Run  almonds  and  macaroons  through  meat  chopper 
or  grinder,  cut  up  finely  the  marshmallows  and  cherries,  soak  the 
gelatine  in  the  cold  water  until  soft,  then  pour  over  the  hot  water, 
add  y2  cup  sugar,  let  cool  and  stir  in  whipped  cream  and  other 
ingredients.    Flavor  with  wine  or  brandy  or  vanilla. 

s  Mrs.  J.  A.  Horrell. 

DATE  PUDDING 

One  cup  chopped  dates,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  2-3  cup  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  2  eggs.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder  together. 
Add  dates,  walnuts  and  bread  crumbs.  Add  well  beaten  eggs  last. 
Place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  20  minutes.  Serve  with  ice 
cream.  Mrs-  H-  s-  Boice- 

FRUIT  CREAM 

Peel  4  bananas  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  pulp  and  juice 
of  2  oranges,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  Sherry  wine, 
2-3  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  V/A  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine 
dissolved  in  *4  cup  boiling  water.  Cool  in  ice  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  fold  in  whip  from  2  cups  cream.  Add  1  cup  candied 
fruit  Mrs.  Howard  Huntington. 

ORANGE  SHORTCAKE 

Bake  an  ordinary  shortcake  in  a  square  tin.  Cut  into  squares, 
splitting  each  square  while  warm.  Whip  y2  pint  cream  and  add 
to  this  1  cup  sugar  and  6  medium-sized  oranges,  peeled  and  cut 
into  small  dice.  Beat  this  all,  well  together,  and  spread  between 
layers,  also  on  the  top.  Serve  what  remains  as  a  sauce  for  the 
cake  Mrs.  H.  I.  Stuart. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

One  pound  prunes,  2  cups  cold  water,  y2  cup  boiling  water, 
y2  box  gelatine,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  lemon  juice.  Soak  prunes 
several  hours  in  2  cups  cold  water,  remove  stones,  add  boiling 
water,  soak  gelatine  in  y2  cup  cold  water,  dissolve  in  hot  liquid, 
add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  then  strain  and  add  prunes.  It  should  be 
firm  with  prunes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  Sherry 
wine  Mrs.  W.  A.  Munsell. 

93 


SNOW  PUDDING 

Dissolve  y2  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  warm  water.  Add  1 
cup  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  2  cups  of  sugar. 
When  it  begins  to  congeal,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  beat 
all  thoroughly  together. 

Sauce:  Scald  1  pint  of  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with 
Yz  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  y2  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  this  mixture  to 
the  scalded  milk,  and  stir  until  slightly  thickened.  When  cool, 
flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  wine. 

Mrs.  J.  Winslow  Chick. 
BAKED  PEARS 
Twelve  large  pears,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  y2 
lemon  sliced,  1  pint  water.    Bake  in  a  covered  earthen  dish  for 
2y2  hours.    Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Edward  M.  Mackey. 
STRAWBERRY  MERINGUE  PIE 
To  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  U/4  cups  powdered  sugar, 
add  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bake  in  round  cake  pan  in  moderate 
oven.    Separate  as  a  cake  and  fill  inside  with  mixture  of  1  quart 
strawberries  and  1  bottle  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Kingsbury. 
APPLE  FLOAT 
Three  large  apples  baked,  1  cup  sugar,  grated  lemon,  white 
of  an  egg.    Scrape  pulp  from  apple,  add  sugar  and  lemon.  When 
cold  add  white  of  egg  and  beat  one-half  hour,  or  till  white.  Serve 
with  boiled  custard  or  whipped  cream.     Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 

RICE  PUDDING 
Two  cups  rice,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter.    After  rice 
is  cooked  and  water  poured  off,  add  butter  and  sugar  and  let  stand 
until  cold,  then  fold  in  y2  pint  cream  whipped  and  serve  with 
maple  syrup  and  chopped  English  walnuts.      Mrs.  H.  S.  Boice. 

PRUNE  WHIP 
One-fourth  pound  prunes,  boiled  down,  shredded  or  chopped, 
or  put  through  colander,  yA  cup  chopped  nuts,  whites  of  2  small 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla  to 
taste.  Beat  all  together.  Serve  in  small  glasses  with  whipped 
cream  on  top.  In  cooking  the  prunes,  allow  all  the  juice  to  be 
absorbed  into  them.  Mrs.  Benjamin  E.  Page. 

RICE  PUDDING 
One-half  cup  of  rice,  boiled  in  water,  one-half  hour  in  open 
kettle.  Drain  through  colander.  Butter  deep  pudding  dish.  Put 
rice  in  about  one  inch  thick.  Add  a  fe  wraisins  to  the  rice.  Beat 
three  eggs  with  y2  cup  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  milk  added  to  eggs  and 
sugar.  Pour  on  top  of  rice.  Do  not  stir  the  rice.  Sprinkle  top 
liberally  with  cinnamon.  Mrs.  DeWitt  C.  LeFevre. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 
One  quart  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  4  teaspoons  corn  starch, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Brown  sugar  to  a  dark  brown 
in  a  skillet,  add  milk  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  milk 
is  at  boiling  point  add  salt  and  corn  starch  made  wet  in  a  little 
cold  milk.  Beat  in  yolks  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  When  cold 
add  whites  whipped  with  cream.  Mrs.  J.  D.  Condit. 

94 


PHONE  COLORADO  69 

The  Royal  Laundry  Co. 


Wet  Wash  -  Dry  Cleaning 
Finished  Rough  Dry 

Shoe  Repairing 

B  B 

LEMON  CUSTARD 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  creamed  with  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  1  cup  of  milk,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 
Dice  two  bananas  in  individual  dishes.  Pour  the  custard  over 
this,  and  for  a  meringue,  use  the  beaten  whites  to  which  has  been 
added  2  tablespoons  of  bar  sugar.  Heap  on  custard.  Serve  ice 
cold  with  a  cherry  on  top.  Mrs.  Robert  Sorver. 

NUTTED  CREAM 

Cover  y2  box  of  Plymouth  Rock  or  Knox  gelatine  with  y2  tea- 
cup of  water  and  soak  y2  hour.  Whip  \y2  pints  of  cream  and  add 
to  it  4  tablespoons  of  chopped  English  walnuts  and  24  CUP  of 
powdered  sugar,  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Pour  3  or  4  tablespoons  of 
hot  water  over  gelatine  and  stand  it  over  kettle  until  it  is  dissolved, 
pour  this  over  cream  and  begin  at  once  to  stir.  Mold  on  ice  and 
cut  in  slices  to  serve.    Nice  to  sprinkle  nuts  on  top  when  serving. 

Miss  Ada  Breckenridge. 
GOOSEBERRY  FOOL 

Top  and  tail  1  quart  gooseberries,  put  into  a  stew  pan  with  1 
pine  sugar  and  y2  cup  water.  Cook  until  all  are  well  done.  Then 
strain  through  a  sieve.  To  the  pulp  when  cold  add  a  small  pinch 
of  carbonate  of  soda  and  1  pint  whipped  cream  and  serve. 

Caroline  Tuckey. 

WINE  JELLY 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  juice  of  1  lemon,  y2  cup  of  cold  water, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  of  Sherry  or  Port  wine. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  15  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  wine.  Stir  well  and  strain 
through  a  fine  napkin  into  a  shallow  dish.  Keep  on  ice  until  hard. 
When  ready  to  serve,  cut  in  cubes  or  diamonds,  or  break  up  lightly 
with  a  fork.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  Winslow  Chick. 
SPANISH  CREAM 

One  package  of  Knox's  gelatine,  \y2  pints  milk,  3  eggs.  Dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the  yolks,  and  a  cup  of 
sugar,  cook,  but  be  careful  and  not  let  it  curdle.  Stir  in  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  after  being  well  beaten.  Put  in  a  mold  to  cool. 
Makes  1  quart.  Mrs.  Frederick  Gleason. 

95 


OUVES 

HULLED  CORN 
HORSE  RADISH 
CHILI  SAUCE 
PICALLILLI 
PEANUT  BUTTER 
SALAD  DRESSING 


DAUGHERTY'S 

HOME  MADE 

RELISHES 

117  WEST  UNION  STREET 

Phane  Colorado  419 

PASADENA,  CAL. 


PICKLES 
SAUER  KRAUT 
CHOW  CHOW 
COTTAGE  CHEESE 
BUTTER  MILK 
SARATOGA  CHIPS 
BAKED  BEANS 


B  El 

MOST  DELICATE  CUSTARD  FOR  INVALID 

One  pint  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  a  little 
vanilla  and  pinch  of  salt.  When  mixing  have  milk  hot.  Steam 
four  or  five  minutes.  Mrs.  Edward  M.  Mackey. 

BANANA  FLUFF 
Two  bananas,  24  cup  light  brown  sugar,  beaten  together  with 
egg  beater,  white  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff  and  whipped  into  the 
other.  Dissolve  1  tablespoon  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Stand 
cup  in  boiling  water  to  melt.  Beat  into  mixture.  Put  in  sherbet 
glasses  in  refrigerator.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Henry  Doty. 
MACAROON  WHIP 
Whip  a  cup  of  cream  and  sweeten  to  taste.   Slice  two  bananas, 
and  break  up  a  dozen  macaroons.    Just  before  serving  stir  these 
into  the  cream.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Mothershead. 

CUSTARD  FOR  THREE  SMALL  CUPS 
One  egg,  1  cup  milk,  1J4  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  salt,  trifle 
grated  nutmeg.  Mrs.  F.  C.  Morgan. 

RICE  PYRAMIDS 
Two  cups  of  cream,  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  1  small  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  2  teaspoons  gelatine,  1  tablespoon  Sherry.  Whip 
cream  until  stiff,  add  rice,  sugar  and  gelatine,  dissolved.  Just 
before  putting  into  individual  molds  add  Sherry.  Serve  with 
crushed  fruit.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Trask. 

MOULVERN  PUDDING 
Take  a  convenient  size  pudding  bowl.  Line  it  with  slices  of 
stale  bread.  Bring  to  a  boil  1  pint  of  raspberries,  together  with 
Yi  pint  of  sugar.  Pour  into  bowl,  cover  top  with  a  slice  of  bread. 
Press  down  with  a  saucer,  put  in  ice  box  to  cool  for  some  hours. 
Turn  out  when  ready  for  use;  pour  over  it  1  cup  of  whipped 
cream.  Caroline  Tuckey. 

FLOATING  ISLAND 
One  and  one-half  cups  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs. 
Heat  milk,  add  sugar  and  eggs  well  mixed.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Chill.  Add  1  teaspoon  lemon 
extract.  Make  a  meringue  with  whites  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons 
sugar  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  custard  in  a  glass  bowl  with 
meringue  on  top.  Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 

96 


FAIRY  FLUFF 

Use  yA  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon  and  2 
oranges.  Cook  till  thick  as  custard,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  cook  one  minute.  Pile  in  sherbet  cups  to 
C™7A  Mrs.  H.  M.  Griffith. 


Frozen  Desserts 

"Then  farewell  heat  and  welcome  frost." 

— Merchant  of  Venice. 

MRS.  VISSCHER'S  FROZEN  PUDDING 

One  generous  pint  of  milk,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  scant  y2 
cup  flour,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  gelatine,  1  quart  cream,  1  pound 
French  candied  fruit,  4  tablespoons  wine.  Let  the  milk  come  to 
a  boil.  Beat  the  flour,  1  cup  sugar  and  the  eggs  together  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  20  mintues  and  add  the  gelatine 
which  has  been  soaking  one  or  two  hours  in  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  the  wine,  sugar  and 
cream.  Freeze  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  candied  fruit  and  finish 
freezing.  Take  out  the  beater,  pack  smoothly  and  set  away  for 
an  hour  or  two.  When  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  tin  in  warm  water, 
turn  out  the  cream  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  heaped  around. 

Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 

MANHATTAN  PUDDING 

One  and  one-half  of  orange  juice,  y4  cup  of  lemon  juice  sweeten- 
ed quite  sweet,  y2  pint  of  whipped  cream,  two-thirds  cup  of  Eng- 
lish walnuts  chopped,  J/2  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
vanilla.  Let  stand  packed  in  ice  for  three  hours,  use  plenty  of 
ice  and  salt.   Serve  seven  people.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Horrell. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 
Beat  yolks  of  6  eggs  very  light,  pour  over  them  y  cup  of  maple 
syrup  made  very  hot  (almost  boiling).  Put  in  double  boiler  and 
stir  constantly  until  they  thicken,  then  remove  and  beat  until 
cool.  Add  y2  pint  cream,  also  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff,  and  stir  very  lightly  in  custard.  Pour  into  mold  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  at  leat  4  hours.  Mrs.  J.  Perry  Wood. 

FLORENTINE  LOAF 
One  pint  strawberry  or  raspberry  juice,  strain  and  sweeten. 
1  pint  whipped  cream  whipped  until  very  stiff.  Sweeten  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  berry  juice  into  mold  with  whipped  cream 
on  top.  Handle  carefully  to  prevent  mixing.  Pack  in  ice  and 
salt  to  remain  three  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Ferry,  Sierra  Madre,  Cal. 
LEMON  MILK  SHERBET 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  in  double  boiler,  1  quart  milk,  2 
cups  sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon ;  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold,  strain  into  the  can  of  the  freezer,  pack  the  salt  and  ice  around 
and  turn  crank  for  about  10  minutes.  Now  open  freezer  and  add- 
whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  juice  of  three  lemons.  Turn  the 
crank  again  until  sherbet  has  been  frozen,  then  set  away  to  ripen. 

Mrs.  B.  Marshall  Wotkyns. 

97 


PURE  ICE  FROM  DISTILLED  WATER 


PASADENA  ICE  COMPANY 


COLD  STORAGE  FOR  FURS,  FABRICS  AND 
ALL  KINDS  OF  PERISHABLE  GOODS. 


b  a 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

Make  a  boiled  custard  with  4  eggs,  1  cup  granulated  sugar 
and  1  quart  milk.  When  custard  is  cold  add  1  quart  of  rich  cream, 
also  2  cups  of  finely  shredded  peaches  (shred  with  a  silver  fork). 
Add  one  1  sugar  to  peaches  and  freeze  hard.  Fresh  peaches  are 
best,  but  canned  peaches  are  very  good,  omitting  the  juice. 

Mrs.  Masters. 
CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 
Three  pints  cream,  1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  grated  choco- 
late, mixed  with  6  tablespoons  sugar.    When  partly  frozen,  add 
2  well  beaten  eggs.  Mrs.  Masters. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICE  CREAM 
One  quart  cream,  1  quart  milk,  \y2  cups  sugar,  1  pound 
marshmallows.    Cover  marshmallows  with  milk,  and  let  stand  one 
or  two  hours,  shred  with  two  forks  and  use  any  flavoring  and 
freeze.  Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Waldo. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 
One  quart  cream,  cup  sugar,  cup  rum,  1  cup  candied 
fruit,  8  lady  fingers.  Cut  fruit  in  pieces  and  soak  several  hours 
in  brandy  to  cover.  Mix  cream,  sugar  and  rum,  then  freeze.  Line 
a  two-quart  melon  mold  with  lady  fingers,  crust  side  down ;  fill 
with  alternate  layers  of  the  cream  and  fruit,  cover,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Brandied  peaches  cut  in  pieces, 
with  some  of  their  syrup  added,  greatly  improves  the  pudding. 

Mrs.  Howard  Huntington. 

98 


The  Chocolate  Shop 

20  E.  COLORADO  STREET 

PASADENA 

731-33  SO.  BROADWAY 
219  W.  SIXTH  STREET 

LOS  ANGELES 

REFRESHMENTS 
The  Home  of  Fine  Chocolates 

Lunches  1 1 :30  to  2  p.  m.  Dinner  5:30  to  7:30  p.  m. 

n  a  - 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM  WITH  MARSHMALLOWS 

One  pint  strawberry  juice,  1)4  cups  sugar,  1  quart  thick  cream 
1  oint  thin  cream.    Freeze  cream  first.    Then  cut  J4  pound  soft 
marshmallows  in  three  pieces  each  and  fold  them  in  the  cream 
after  it  is  frozen.  Mrs-  A'  A'  Llbby* 

PHILADELPHIA  CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

Custard:  One  cup  white  sugar,  1  large  spoon  flour  mixed 
with  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  in  a  little  milk,  about  a  cup  full.  Cook 

in  double  boiler. 

For  the  caramel  take  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  water 
and  brown  thoroughly  in  a  skillet.  Mix  slowly  a  little  at  a  time 
with  the  custard.  When  it  is  cold  add  the  vanilla  and  1  quart 
of  cream,  then  freeze  for  about  three  hours.  Serve  in  glasses  with 
whipped  cream  and  crushed  nuts  on  top  of  the  crearrL 

PF  Mrs.  Matt  S.  Hughes. 

RASPBERRY  CREAM 

One  pint  whipping  cream,  V/2  cups  fresh  raspberries  1  cup 
cut  marshmallows,  white  of  1  egg.  Chill  cream  whip  until  thick, 
then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Have  ready  the  raspberries  and  marshmallows,  sprinkle  them 
through  the  cream,  arrange  on  a  chilled  serving  dish  and  put  on 
the  ic|  Mrs.  Elliot  Gibbs. 

APRICOT  ICE 

One  can  apricots,  y2  lemon,  1  pint  sugar,  1  can  water.  Use 
can  of  apricots  with  the  skins  on.  Put  through  a  colander  Ml 
can  with  water  and  pour  over  skins  through  colander.  Add  lemon 
and  sugar.  Let  stand  on  ice  till  sugar  is  dissolved.  Freeze  stilt. 
After  frozen,  it  may  be  beaten  for  ten  minutes  to  make  smooth 
and  creamy.  _  Mrs.  S.  N.  Frey. 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

One  and  one-half  quarts  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  quart  of 
sugar,  10  oranges,  3  lemons.  Put  milk,  cream  and  sugar  into 
freezer  and  freeze  until  mushy,  add  fruit  juice  and  finish  treez- 
ing  All  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  cream  with  excellent  results. 
This  makes  one  gallon.  Mrs.  Albert  E.  Edwards. 

LEMON  ICE 

Four  cups  water,  2  cups  sugar,  y4  cup  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  B.  Marshall  Wotkyns. 

99 


PEACH  SHERBET 

Melt  three  cups  of  sugar  in  one  cup  of  hot  cream.  When  cool 
add  three  cups  milk  and  one-half  cup  lemon  juice.  When  partly 
frozen  add  one  pint  of  peach  pulp.    Let  stand  two  hours  at  least. 

Mrs.  Clara  H.  Chase. 
PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 
One  pint  of  grated  pineapple,  1  pint  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  cold 
water.    One  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  with  sufficient  cold  water  to 
soak  it.    Let  stand  one  hour.   After  which  pour  over  it  one  cup  of 
boiling  water.    Mix  cold  water  and  sugar  together,  add  pineapple. 
Mix  well  with  gelatine  and  freeze.     Mrs.  DeWitt  C.  Le  Fevre. 
FROZEN  MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 
Melt  one  25c  package  of  marshmallows  in  a  double  boiler. 
Dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  granulated  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then 
mix  it  in  a  little  hot  water.    Set  on  ice,  when  it  begins  to  thicken, 
beat  in  the  dissolved  marshmallow.   Then  fold  in  one  pint  of  thick 
cream  whipped  stiff.    Flavor  with  almond.    Pour  into  a  melon 
mold.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours.  Rosa  Bell. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 
One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  one-third  cup  flour,  quart  of  milk.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  stirring  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Put  \y2  cups 
sugar  in  iron  skillet  over  a  very  low  fire.  Stir  constantly  until 
it  melts.  Stir  this  into  the  hot  custard.  Let  cool,  then  add  1  pint 
of  cream  and  freeze.   This  amount  makes  about  2y2  quarts. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Abbott,  Ontario,  Cal. 
MAPLE  MOUSSE 
Beat  3  eggs,  add  1  cup  maple  syrup  and  stir  on  fire  until  it 
thickens.    Add  1  pint  whipped  cream.    Put  in  freezer  and  freeze 
without  stirring  or  turning.  Add  nuts  if  desired. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Hurff. 
MARSHMALLOW  MOUSSE 
One-half  pound  marshmallows,  y2  pound  nuts  chopped,  1  table- 
spoon of  Sherry  wine,  1  pint  cream  whipped.    Cut  marshmallows 
in  quarters,  soak  in  sherry  and  add  to  whipped  cream.    Pack  in 
ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

Mrs.  MaryTorrance. 
BAKED  ALASKA 

.  Whites  of  6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1  quart 
brick  of  ice  cream,  thin  sheet  of  sponge  cake.  Make  meringue  of 
eggs  and  sugar,  cover  a  board  with  white  paper,  lay  on  sponge 
cake,  cut  brick  of  ice  cream  in  half,  lengthwise,  turn  on  cake,(  which 
should  extend  one-half  inch  beyond  cream),  cover  with  meringue 
and  spread  smoothly.  Place  on  oven  grate  and  brown  quickly  in 
hot  oven.  Garnish  with  Maraschino  cherries  and  angelica,  or 
set  on  fire  before  bringing  to  table.  The  board,  paper,  cake,  and 
meringue  are  poor  conductors  of  heat  and  prevent  the  cream  from 
melting.    Slip  from  paper  on  ice  cream  platter. 

Sponge  Cake:  Two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  %  cup  granulated 
sugar,  pinch  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  flavoring.  Use  Dover  egg  beater  and  beat  thor- 
oughly as  ingredients  are  added.  Spread  in  unbuttered  dripping 
Pan-  Mrs.  K.  A.  Wyckoff. 

100 


MAPLE  MOUSSE 

Four  egg  yolks,  1  cup  maple  syrup,  1  cup  whipping  cream. 
Beat  yolks  and  syrup  together  and  cook,  stirring  until  it  thickens 
Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  until  cold.  Beat 
the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth.    Fold  the  2  mixtures  together.    Pack  in 
salt  and  ice  for  3  hours.  "  . 

Mrs.  R.  R.  McCrea,  Vancouver,  B.  C. 

MOUSSE 

Three-fourths  cup  granulated  sugar,  yA  cup  water.  Boil  until  it 
strings  1  pint  whipped  cream,  6  macaroons  (rolled),  whites  of 
three  eggs.  Beat  eggs,  add  hot  syrup,  and  beat  gently.  When 
svrup  is  cold  add  the  whipped  cream,  the  rolled  macaroons  and 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pack  in  freezer  and  let  it  stand  three 
or  four  hours.  Mrs.  William  F.  Knight. 

LALLA  ROOKH 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  with  two  teaspoons  of  sugar 
heaped,  2  tablespoons  of  wine,  1  cup  of  rich  cream,  whites  of  2 
eggs  beaten    Freeze  to  a  mush.    Brandy  or  rum  may  be  added  in 
as  large  quantities  as  you  wish  and  improves  the  flavor  as  the 
wine  is  not  quite  strong  enough.     Mrs.  B.  Marshall  Wotkyns. 
SHERBET— THREE  OF  A  KIND 

Three  cups  boiling  water,  3  cups  granulated  sugar  whites  of 
three  eggs,  3  lemons,  3  oranges,  3  bannanas,  or  3  of  any  kind 
of  fruit.  Pour  boiling  water  over  sugar,  when  cold  add  fruit  put 
through  strainer,  when  partly  frozen  add  whites  of  eggs. 

b  Mrs.  C.  A.  Krape. 


Chafing  Dish  Receipts 

"Good  genius  of  the  chafing  dish, 
Yield  to  the  magic  of  our  wish! 
Dance  flames !  Odors  rare  ascend, 
Delight  our  senses  with  a  subtle  blend 
Regaled  with  dainties  superfine, 
We  bow  before  the  household  shrine. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

One  teaspoon  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter.  Blend 
the  two  in  a  sauce  pan  over  fire.  Add  1  cup  of  milk.  Season  rather 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  it  is  boiling  hard,  add  1  heap- 
ing cup  of  grated  cheese,  and  one  well  beaten  egg  yolk.  Just  before 
serving  add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Serve  on  hot  toast 
or  crackers.  Mrs.  John  Perry  Wood. 

CREAMED  TRIPE  AND  OYSTERS 

One  pint  of  well  cooked  tripe  (fresh),  cut  up  in  small  pieces. 
Add  this  to  a  rich  cream  sauce  to  which  has  been  added  the  liquor 
from  a  pint  of  oysters.  Just  before  serving  add  1  pint  of  oysters 
and  cook  until  the  edges  curl.  The  same  recipe  can  be  used  sub- 
stituting boiled  onions  for  the  oysters. 

Mrs.  Clara  B.  Hazen. 

101 


Quality  Central  Market 

J.  W.  GUSTAVSON,  Prop. 

WHOLESALE  and  RETAIL 
Meats,  Poultry,  Game  in  Season  Fish,  Oysters,  Lobsters,  Crabs 

Phone  Colorado  1100 
12  W.  Colorado  Street,  PASADENA 

======================  a  a 

CHICKEN  a  la  KING 

Two  cups  of  white  sauce,  2  teaspoons  paprika,  add  1  cup 
Sherry,  breasts  of  3  cooked  chickens  cut  in  inch  dice,  y2  cup  large 
capers,  2  cups  mushrooms,  truffles  to  taste,  y2  cup  pimientoes. 
Serve  in  chafing  dish  with  triangles  of  toast. 

Mrs.  Edward  Duff  King. 
ENGLISH  MONKEY 
One  cup  grated  cheese,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  egg, 
salt  and  pepper  (red).   Melt  cheese  in  chafing  dish  or  double  boiler. 
Mix  milk,  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  add  to  melted  cheese.  Season 
with  salt  and  paprika.    Serve  on  toasted  creackers. 

Mrs.  Percy  Griffin. 

DREAM  CAKES 

Make  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  a  thin  slice  of  cheese 
in  each.  Put  a  little  butter  in  chafing  dish  and  when  hot  put  in 
the  sandwiches.    Brown  on  both  sides. 

Mrs.  Elias  Allen  Ford. 
SARDINE  NEWBERG 

One  half  pound  sardines.  Remove  the  skin  and  break  into 
pieces.  Add  to  this  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  y2  teaspoon  papri- 
ka, cup  shrerry  wine.  Cover  and  allow  to  become  very  hot.  Add 
yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten  and  1  cup  of  cream.  Stir  until  it  thickens. 
Serve  on  rounds  of  soft  toast.  Mrs.  Edward  F.  Robbins. 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Pickles 

Here  is  fruit  for  an  epicure  meet, 
Canned  and  pickled  and  smothered  in  sweet, 
The  wealth  of  summer's  mellow  prime 
To  cheer  the  dearth  of  winter's  time. 

CRANBERRY  MARMALADE 

Pour  boiling  water  over  1  quart  cranberries.  Let  stand  till 
cool.  Pour  off  the  water  and  add  1  pint  hot  water.  Boil  hard  10 
minutes  and  strain.  Then  add  1  pound  granulated  sugar  that  has 
been  heated  in  the  oven.   Boil  again  5  minutes  and  pour  into  mold. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Treat 

102 


MINT  AND  APPLE  JELLY 

Two  cups  of  packed  mint  leaves,  1  cup  boiling  water  pour  over 
leaves  and  steep  for  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  and  add  this  to  two 
auarts  o"crab  apple  juice,  or  juice  from  any  tart  apples  Proceed  as 
fo any  jelly  adding  sugar  at  usual  time.  When  cooked  and  ready 
to  leave  the  stove  add  enough  green  vegetable  coloring  to  make 
rSate  green  tint.  Put  up  in  small  glasses  Is  delicious  and 
attractive  for  invalids  tray. 

MINT  JELLY 

Make  enough  Bellefleur  apple  jelly  to  fill  about  12  glasses. 
When  ready  to  pour  out,  take  3  tablespoons  of  the  jelly  and  mix 
with  it  about  J*  of  a  teaspoon  of  green  vegetable  coloring.  Stir 
until  dissolved  Id  add  1  tablespoonful  of  spearmint  flavoring.  Mix 
this ^  with  the  whole  of  the  apple  jelly  by  stirring  slowly  and  allow 
Urboil  about  5  minutes  longer,  as  the  -ng^jj^togj-  the 
ielly. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Weieh  the  whole  amount  of  oranges,  and  take  an  equal  amount 
of  suear  ooundTor  pound.  Grate  the  skin  of  half  of  the  oranges  the 
yellow  part  only  Take  off  skin  of  the  other  half  and  discard.  Peel 
off  alT  the  white  "fuzzy"  skin  of  all  the  oranges.  Press  out  all  the 
juice  an/pour  onto  sugar,  boil  these  together  five =  (5  minute  then 

b  &«W  swssvs  23rt*  r |rated  skin 

ofabout  rlLe  famous,  improves  the  flavo, v  especia gnf  oranges  are 
sweet 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Twelve  oranges,  6  lemons.  Slice  oranges  thin.  Cut  each  slice 
in  about  4  Pieces  Peel  lemons  and  slice  them  and  remove  all  seeds. 
To  every  pSowl  of  fruit,  add  3  pints  of  water  and  set  away  over 
nieht  then  boil  45  minutes,  without  cover,  unti  tender.  To  every 
potd  of  mixture  add  1  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  again* ^unutes 
with  cover  off  and  skim.  Mrs-  WalKer- 

SPICED  GRAPES  . 

Select  perfect  grapes,  wash  thoroughly,  remove  skins.  Stew 
the  pulp  Strain  out  seeds.  Put  pulp  and  skins  together,  and  to 
each  five  Dints  add  four  pints  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  bag  contain- 
ingcloves'  cinnamon  and'allspice.    Boil  mixture  half  an  hour,  and 

seal  in  iars  Mrs-  C  Mas0n  KmnC- 

seal  in  jars.       qraPE  AND  NUT  COMPOTE 

Ten  pounds  Muscat  grapes,  7  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds .English 
walnuts  Take  grapes  from  stems,  wash  thoroughly,  cut  in  side 
Tnd  remove  seeds8  Add  half  the  sugar  and  cook  thirty  minutes  add 
rrmainTnrsugar  and  cook  until  a  little  cooled  in  a  saucer  is  thick 
S  yS  Add  nuts  cut  in  pieces.  Cook  with  nuts  about  ten  min- 
utes drapes  best  in  September.  Mrs  Albert  E.  Edwards. 
V  Sj5ICED  CURRANTS 

Four  quarts  currants,  4  quarts  sugar,  cup  vinegar  2  table- 
spoons cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  allspice.  Mash 
currants,  add  the  vinegar  and  spices  tied  in  thin  muslin  bags.  Boil 
hard  20  minutes.  Add  sugar  and  boil  till  jelhe*  ^  g 

103 


SPICED  CONCORD  GRAPES 

Squeeze  pulp  from  skins  of  7  pounds  grapes  and  put  pulp  in 
a  kettle  to  heat.  Strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds  Add 
skins  and  strained  pulp,  then  add  3  and  one-third  pounds  brown 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves,  same  of  ground  cinnamon  and  1 
pint  vinegar.  Boil  slowly  about  1  hour.  Weigh  grapes  before  re- 
moving seeds.  Mrs<  H  T  Fuller> 

CURRANT  BAR-LE-DUC 

Get  large  currants  and  stem  without  breaking.  To  each  pound 
of  currants  use  3  pounds  sugar;  take  ordinary  currants  and  bruise 
while  warm  until  you  have  1  pint  of  juice.  Put  1  cup  of  juice  in 
kettle  and  add  the  3  pounds  sugar.  Bring  slowly  to  a  boil  and  skim 
very  carefully.  After  boiling  5  minutes,  drop  in  carefully  1  pound 
of  the  large  currants  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Take  out  without 
breaking  and  boil  syrup  down  5  minutes  or  longer,  if  not  very  thick 
Skim  and  strain  through  hot  cloth  over  the  currants.  Put  in  small 
jelly  glasses  and  seal  when  cold  with  paraffine.  Make  small  quantity 
at  a  time  to  avoid  crushing.  Gooseberry  Bar-le-duc  is  made  the 
same  way.  Mrs<  w  H  Roberts> 

QUINCE  HONEY 

3  pints  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  water,  3  quinces  cut  like  shoe  string 
potatoes  (not  peeled.)    Heat  to  boiling,  then  boil  steadily  30  min- 
utes.  Seal  in  jelly  glasses.  Mrs.  Richard  H.  Alexander 
BLACKBERRY  AND  LOGANBERRY  MARMALADE 
lake  two  boxes  of  blackberries  to  one  box  of  loganberries 
Mash  berries  together,  boil  until  soft,  adding  a  very  little  water 
if  necessary.    Put  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds.    Take  equal 
parts  of  sugar  and  pulp  and  boil  about  thirty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  Bruce  Wetherby. 
CHUTNEY  SAUCE 
Twenty-four  tomatoes,  4  large  onions,  10  small  green  peppers, 
3y2  cups  vinegar,  one-fifth  pound  raisins,  2  cups  garnulated  suW 
2  ounces  ginger  root,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves! 
4  tablespoons  salt.    Boil  slowly  three  and  one  half  hours. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Guyer. 

PEACH  CHUTNEY 

Three  pounds  peaches,  5  pounds  chopped  apples,  1  pound 
raisins,  1  pound  currants,  1  onion,  1  red  pepper,  2  pounds  sugar,  1 
quart  malt  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  ginler  2 
teaspoons  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Cook  together  for  two 
hours.    Fine  for  cold  meats.  Mrs.  P.  S.  Honberger 

TOMATO  RELISH 

Twelve  large  tomatoes,  2  green  bell  peppers,  2  onions,  2  cups 
oi  sugar,  2  cups  weak  vinegar,  2  heaping  tablespoons  salt,  1  tea- 

^°L?nnaTn'  1  £ea^oon  ^ngcr.    Chop  all  ingredients  fine 
and  boil  one  hour.    Seal.  Mrs.  Elias  Allen  Ford 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Eighteen  large  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  fine,  4  large  onions 
chop  fine  4  green  peppers,  chop  fine,  1  teacup  of  sugarf2^  cups 
vinegar  2  heaping  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  tea- 
spoon cloves.   Boil  until  it  thickens,  then  put  up  in  jars. 

Mrs.  Ester  Mack. 

104 


GINGER  PEAR 

Use  a  hard  pear.  Four  pounds  pears  sliced  very  thin  like  chips, 
4  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  water,  iy2  ounces  ginger  root  broken  into 
bits,  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Boil  till  fruit  is 
clear  and  syrup  thick.  Mrs.  S.  Hazard  Halsted. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE 
Juice  of  5  pounds  of  curants,  4  pounds  sugar,  iy2  pounds  raisins 
seeded  and  chopped,  3  oranges  soft  pulp  and  juice,  the  peel  chopped 
in  small  pieces,  if  oranges  are  large  the  peel  of  two  is  sufficient. 
The  whole  coked  15  minutes.  Mrs.  L.  S.  Roberts. 

APRICOT  MARMALADE 
Peel  3  pounds  of  apricots  and  cut  in  half.   Take  half  this  weight 
in  sugar  and  cook  until  soft.   Shred  one  pineapple  and  cook  with  }i 
its  weight  in  sugar.   Put  together,  cook  and  seal  in  glasses. 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Belford. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP 

To  three  pecks  of  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  one  ounce  each 
of  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  peppers.  Boil  slowly  five  hours,  and 
then  rub  it  all  through  the  sieve  dry.  After  it  is  strained,  put  in  a 
pint  of  vinegar  and  a  cup  of  salt,  and  then  let  it  boil  one  hour,  then 
bottle  up  hot.  Soak  the  spices  in  the  vinegar  over  night.  Put  the 
spices  in  a  muslin  bag.  Mrs.  Walter  Raymond. 

APRICOT  PICKLES 
Seven  pounds  of  light  brown  or  granulated  sugar,  iy2  pints 
cider  vingar,  12  whole  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Let 
syrup  boil  up  well,  add  fruit  and  allow  to  cook  not  over  five 
minutes,  then  place  fruit  in  jars.  Cover  with  the  hot  syrup  im- 
mediately and  seal.  This  will  put  up  sixteen  pounds  of  fruit. 
Prick  the  apricots  with  a  sharp  fork  before  putting  into  the  syrup. 

Mrs.  Fred  Elmer  Wilcox. 
TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 
One  peck  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine.  Drain,  and  measure 
the  juice.  Add  as  much  water  as  juice,  return  juice  to  chopped 
tomatoes  and  boil  until  done.  Add  five  pounds  brown  sugar,  two 
pounds  chopped  raisins,  two  tablespoons  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice,  nutmeg,  salt.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  cup  vinegar 
and  cook  until  desired  thickness.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Ames. 

PEPPER  HASH 
Twelve  red  peppers,  12  green  peppers,  15  white  onions,  \y2 
tablespoons  salt,  1  pint  vinegar,  \y2  cups  sugar.  Chop  peppers  fine. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain.  Add 
onions  chopped  fine.  Heat  to  boiling  point  the  vinegar,  salt  and 
sugar,  and  pour  over  peppers  and  onions.    Fill  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  James  Hetherington. 
PICKLED  PEPPER  HASH 
Wash  and  dry  five  large  green  peppers  and  one  red  one. 
Cut  them  open  and  remove  seeds,  then  chop  the  shells  fine.  Take 
a  good  sized  head  of  cabbage,  remove  all  imperfect  leaves,  cut  up 
fine  and  mix  well  with  peppers.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  brown 
mustard  seed,  three  tablespoons  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  whole.  Stir  well  together  and  put  in  pickle  bot- 
tles. This  is  ready  to  use  in  two  days.      Mrs.  E.  D.  Kennedy. 

105 


WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

Use  thick  rind  only.  Weigh  the  rind.  Let  stand  over  night 
in  salt  water,  then  boil  in  clear  water  adding  a  teaspoon  of  pow- 
dered alum  five  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire  Drain 
off  the  water.  For  10  pounds  fruit,  \y2  pints  vinegar,  6  pounds 
sugar,  3  sliced  lemons,  y2  dozen  pieces  of  whole  ginger,  three  bags 
the  size  of  walnuts  of  powdered  cloves,  powdered  cinnamon  and 
powdered  allspice.  A  hand  of  whole  spices  of  the  same.  Boil  until 
lt  clears-  Mrs.  Stevens  Halsted. 

SPICED  FIGS 

Seven  pounds  fruit,  5  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon whole  cloves  and  allspices,  few  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon  a 
little  ginger  root,  and  sliced  lemon.  Put  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices 
on  fire,  cook  till  sugar  is  a  syrup,  then  add  fruit,  lemon  and  ginger 
If  fruit  is  very  ripe  and  there  is  too  much  juice,  take  out  fruit  and 
let  syrup  boil.  Mrs>  p  R  Rowland. 

SWEET  PICKLE 

One  quart  vinegar,  iy2  quarts  of  sugar,  1  gallon  of  fruit,  2 
teaspoons  cloves,  4  tablespons  cinnamon.  Heat  sugar  and  vinegar 
and  pour  over  fruit  for  7  morning.  The  fourth  day  put  in  the  spice 
tied  in  bags.    Seal  hot.  Mrs.  Mary  B.  Richardson. 

INDIAN  VINEGAR 

To  1  gallon  white  vinegar  add  10  small  pepper  corns,  1  ounce 
mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  salt,  1  cup  of  horseradish,  50  fresh 
nasturtium  seeds,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  mint.  Stir  frequently,  let- 
ting stand  for  5  days.   Strain  and  bottle  for  salads  and  cold  meats. 

Mrs.  Thomas  McDougall. 
BENGAL  CHUTNEY— MEAT  SAUCE 

/  u-°^e  P/°Und  brown  su§"ar>  V*  P°und  salt,  y2  pound  mustard  seed 
(white),  y2  pound  raisins  (chopped  fine),  y4  pound  onions,  y±  pound 
ground  ginger  (I  like  better  to  use  half  amount),  2  ounces  garlic 
(chopped  fine),  2  ounces  ground  mustard  (best),  y2  ounce  cayenne 
y2  ounce  turmeric,  3  pints  best  vinegar,  13  large  sour  apples,  7 
large  tomatoes.  Peal  apples  and  boil  in  1  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil 
tomatoes  in  another  pint  of  vinegar.  When  soft  mash  apples  and 
tomatoes  through  colander.  When  cool  add  the  other  pint  of  vine- 
gar and  all  other  ingredients,  one  at  a  time.  Mix  well  and  after 
an  hour  or  so,  put  in  air-tight  cans.        Miss  Mabel  L.  Gould. 

FIG  PICKLE 

Seven  pounds  fruit,  3  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  tablespoon  cloves,  3  lemons  sliced  thin.  Soda 
size  of  walnut  in  boiling  water.  Pour  over  fruit.  Stand  a  while 
then  rinse  thoroughly.  Make  syrup.  Boil  fruit  until  clear,  then 
take  out  and  boil  down  syrup.  Miss  Rena  Ross. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY 

Slice  y2  peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Cover  with  1  quart  of  water 
and  cup  of  salt,  let  stand  two  hours,  then  drain  quite  dry.  Add  to 
this:  3  onions,  sliced  fine,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
red  pepper,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Add  one 
quart  best  vinegar.  Boil  slowly  ten  minutes  then  simmer  \V2 
hours-  Mrs.  Ernest  H.  May. 

106 


EAST  INDIA  CHUTNEY 

One  dozen  medium  sized  green  tomatoes,  6  cucumbers,  2 
onions,  2  garlics,  1  pound  imported  Canton  ginger  1  pint  preserved 
water  melon  rind.  Slice  all  ingredients  small  and  thin.  Boil  to- 
gether 2  quarts  vinegar,  6  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  1  ounce  un- 
bound mace,  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  handful  of 
very  small  Spanish  red  peppers,  2  pounds  currants  and  1  pound 
seedless  raisins.  Cook  all  these  ingredients  until  transparent  and 
syrup  looks  clear  and  heavy.  Mrs.  Ernest  H.  May. 

CAULIFLOWER  MUSTARD  PICKLE 

Twenty  medium  sized  cucumbers,  1  quart  small  whole  onions 
2  large  heads  cauliflower,  picked  apart,  4  green  bell  peppers  and 
2  red  peppers,  4  quarts  green  tomatoes.  Cauliflower,  cucumbers 
and  green  tomatoes  to  be  cut  in  inch  square  pieces.  Peppers  to 
be  cut  in  strips  about  l/2  inch  long.  Keep  these  ingredients  in 
salt  water  over  night  and  scald  in  same  water  next  morning. 

Dralpfc:  Heat  3  quarts  best  cider  vinegar  to  boiling  point 
with  3  cups  sugar,.  Mix  %  pound  of  ground  mustard,  4  teaspoons 
celery  seed,  2  small  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  turmeric,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon  together.  Add  water  enough  to  make  a  smooth  paste 
then  stir  gradually  into  the  hot  vinegar  and  sugar  and  boil  until 
thick  and  smooth.  Then  pour  it  over  the  other  ingredients  cook- 
ing all  together  until  tender,  but  not  too  soft 
s         5  Miss  Jane  E.  Waddington. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes,  peeled,  sliced  and  salted  over 
night  The  next  morning  squeeze  out  well  and  put  on  to  cook. 
Cover  with  fresh  water.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Dram  off  the  water 
and  add  one  quart  of  onions  which  have  been  previously  chopped 
and  boiled  until  tender.  3  quarts  cider  vinegar,  2  pounds  sugar, 
4  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon,  4  tablespoons  dry  mustard  4  table- 
spoons celery  seed,  4  tablespoons  turmeric,  /2  pound  whole  white 
mustard  seed.  Mix  all  together,  stand  over  night  then  boil  until 
tender  Mrs.  Richard  Chapman. 

PICKLED  FIGS 

Peel  ten  pounds  of  little  Celeste  Figs,  leaving  on  stems,  9 
pounds  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar,  2  ounces  stick  cinnamon,  2  ounces 
whole  cloves.  Put  in  cheese  cloth  bags  and  remove  when  done^ 
Let  sugar  and  vinegar  come  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  add  tigs,  cook 
slowly  until  syrup  is  thick  and  figs  are  clear.    Wong  (Kayser.) 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 
One  quart  of  onions,  1  pint  of  cucumber  pickles,  1  quart  of 
cauliflower,  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes,  large  and  small  peppers, 
(green  and  red),  (take  out  seeds),  chop  and  let  stand  in  brine 
over  night,  drain  then  scald  in  vinegar  with  lump  of  alum  until 
tender.  A  layer  of  ingredients  then  salt.  When  cold  pour  off  the 
vinegar.   If  desired  add  celery.  . 

Dressing  for  the  above:  ^  pound  of  ground  mustard,  y4 
ounce  turmeric,  /2  cup  of  flour,  %  ounce  of  celery  seed  1  cup 
of  sugar.  Stir  into  */2  gallon  of  boiling  vinegar  Boil  all  together 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Miss  Emily  Power. 

107 


HORSE  RADISH  PICKLES 

•  ,  I  ?a  lon  of  vinegar-  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cud  of  salt  1 
mu  tf rd  V  IT"  radi5h'  1  tabl-Po°n  pulverifed'alumPl  teaspoon 
2fd^  tea«POon  cayenne  pepper.  Let  this  mixture  stand  over 
?Agu  C<lVer  the  cucumbers  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand 
24  hours,  then  pour  off  water  and  plunge  in  cold  water  Dry  them 
and  throw  them  into  the  vinegar,  stirring  from  time  to  time  Th^ 
pickles  are  ready  to  use  in  two  or  three  week™ 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Cruickshank. 
MUSTARD  PICKLES 
One  quart  small  whole  cucumbers,  1  quart  large  cucumbers 

tSL\v;;^T atoes' sliced- 1  ^ — &sh£x 

Directions:    Make  a  brine  of  4  quarts  water  and  1  oint  of  salt 
ZZ^^Sf5-    Let  Stand  2^ours.  ThenhtiChfbot 

and  enough  vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  111.    Boil  this  miSure 
until  it  is  thick  and  smooth,  stirring  constantly.    Add  thl  vegeta- 
bles, heat  well  through  and  can  white  hot.       Mrs.  E?  F.  Hahn 
SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

sized  o'mon's  %ut  „TW°  K0Ze"  Iarge  ~bers,  1  dozen  medium 
,W  thZ     ii;         .numbers  about  yg  inch  thick  without  peel- 

SLa  t  u  SllCCn°n'0nS  tJhln-  Cover  with  1  teacup  salt  and  let 
stand  3  hours.  Drain  and  cover  with  the  following:  One  quart 
vinegar,  1  teacup  olive  oil,  1  teacup  white  mustard  seed  %  teacup 
black  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed.  Mix  we  1  with  cu- 
cumbers and  onions  and  can.  Two  or  three  green  peppers  chooned 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Mrs.  Edward Mickey 

Candy 

"A  little  nonsense  now  and  then 
Is  relished  by  the  best  of  men." 

MAPLE  NUT  FOAM 

em  1  if  °UPS    g^  br°Wn  SUgar'  ^  CUPS  water>  whi1*s  of  two 
W>    d  C«PS  walnut  meats.    Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water 

fpoon     P^VW  {iWm  Spin  thread  wheng dropped  W 

spoon.    Pour  slowly  while  beating  constantly  on  whites  of  eees 

(beaten  until  stiff).   When  nearly  hard  add  nuts,  and  drop  from  tea- 
spoon on  greased  plates.  p 

Miss  E.  Florence  Trask. 
_  SEA  FOAM  CANDY 

.  Three  cups  sugar  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Cook 

Pour     ,1°nT  a  hariball-^he.n  dr°pPed  in  water>  but  &  not  stir 

It7s  stiff  A^Tr  the  *?mJ  bea^en  whites  of  two  e^s>  beat  ™u 

T)rL  I  °UpS.i0f  ch°PPed  nuts  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Drop  from  spoon  on  oil  paper,  in  small  pats. 

Miss  Emilie  S.  Neff. 

108 


FONDANT 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  y8  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Place  all  ingredients  in  granite  sauce  pan  and  boil  briskly  until 
it  will  form  soft  waxy  ball,  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  (Wrap 
a  fork  in  soft  muslin  or  linen  and  dip  in  cold  water.  With  this 
keep  crystals  of  sugar  from  forming  on  sides  of  pan).  Place  in 
cold  place  and  let  stand  until  tepid.  Then  beat  until  creamy.  Knead 
on  a  marble  slab  until  smooth  and  dry.  Press  in  glass  or  bowl, 
cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  If  desired,  fondant  can  be  kept 
several  days.  For  mints  or  creams  Burnetts  coloring  should  be 
worked  into  fondant  while  kneading. 

Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 

NOUGAT 

One  pint  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons 
glucose,  chopped  walnuts,  raisins,  candied  cherries,  etc.  Mix  the 
sugar  and  glucose  with  a  little  water.  Cook  very  thoroughly  till 
brittle  in  cold  water.  Pour  hot  over  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
stirring  and  beating  as  you  pour.  Beat  till  it  becomes  creamy. 
When  cooling,  stir  in  nuts,  etc.  Gather  into  a  loaf,  and  leave  till 
next  day  to  dry.   Cut  into  squares. 

Miss  Christiana  Clark,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 
MAPLE  NUT  LOAF 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  medium  brown  sugar,  yA  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  butter  size  of  egg,  1  cup  cream  or  milk,  1  cup  nuts. 
Boil  sugar  and  milk  until  it  will  form  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  When 
nearly  done,  add  butter.  Let  stand  until  cool  and  beat  until  thick. 
Add  nuts,  and  pour  out  into  buttered  pans.  Cut  in  squares  when 
hard.    Stir  while  boiling,  as  brown  sugar  sometimes  causes  milk 

to  curdle.  ,  ^  . 

Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 
MAPLE  CREAM  WALNUTS 

One  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  maple 
syrup,  1  cup  hot  water,  y2  cup  "Red  label"  Karo  syrup.  Mix  to- 
gether and  stir  over  slow  fire  until  melted;  then  let  it  boil  until 
it  forms  a  saft  ball,  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from 
fire  and  stir  briskly  until  creamy ;  then  place  in  pan  of  hot  water 
over  fire  until  it  is  quite  soft.  Have  ready  half  walnut  meats  and 
dip  into  the  cream  using  narrow  kitchen  fork.  Drop  on  waxed 
paper  (Keep  in  a  box  or  covered  dish  to  keep  them  from  getting 
hard  Mrs.  C.  J.  Cheesewright. 

FRENCH  CREAMS 
Prepare  two  quantities  of  fondant  having  each  of  a  different 
color.  Mold  one  color  into  balls,  with  the  hands,  and  place  on 
waxed  paper.  Melt  remaining  fondant  over  steam  or  in  double 
boiler.  Drop  molds  in  melted  fondant  and  quickly  remove  with 
silver  fork.  Replace  on  waxed  paper  until  hard.  If  desired,  finely 
chopped  nuts  can  be  worked  into  molds.  These  are  delicious  when 
properly  made.   Use  any  flavor  desired. 

Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 

STUFFED  DATES 
Take  one  pound  of  dates,  wash  well,  cut  out  pits  with  a  very 
sharp  knife,  and  fill  centers  with  a  cream  cheese,  preferably  neut- 
chatel  Mrs.  Elsinore  Machns. 

109 


TAFFY 

(  Four  CUPS  granulated  sugar,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  dis- 
solved m  water,  2  cups  water,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Add  2  teaspoons  lemon  or  vanilla  just  before  tak- 
ing candy  from  the  fire.  Boil  until  it  strings,  then  cool  and  pull 
until  white.  Mrs.  Richard  H.  Lacy. 

DIVINITY  CANDY 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  Karo  syrup,  3  tablespoons 
water,  1  cup  walnut  meats  cut.    Cook  until  brittle,  have  ready  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  hard 
before  pouring  into  a  buttered  dish.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Hertel. 

FRUIT  BAR 

Made  from  fondant  by  kneading  in  chopped  fruits  and  nuts. 
Slice  in  rather  thin  pieces  (figs,  dates,  cherries,  citron,  nuts). 
Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 

MINTS 

Follow  recipe  for  fondant  using  one  tablespoon  Karo  syrup 
(white)  m  place  of  cream  of  tartar.  While  kneading  flavor  with 
oil  of  peppermint  or  wintergreen  (do  not  use  too  much).  Melt 
over  steam  and  drop  on  oiled  paper  from  tip  of  tea  spoon.  Color 
mint,  pale  green,  wintergreen  pink.  If  desired  these  can  be  chocolate 
coated. 

Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 

PRESERVED  FIGS 

Use  4  pounds  sugar  to  2  cups  of  water.  Let  syrup  boil,  then 
add  6  pounds  figs  whole,  picking  out  firm  ones.  Let  them  simmer 
for  two  hours  and  then  drain  in  colander  for  one  half  hour.  Place 
them  on  a  tray  in  the  sun  for  two  days,  then  roll  them  in  sugar 
and  place  on  a  fresh  tray  to  dry  for  two  more  days. 

Miss  E.  B.  C.  Peterson. 
CANDIED  FIGS 

Select  very  firm  figs  with  as  much  stem  as  possible,  wash  in 
hot  soda  water,  (1  tablespoon  soda  to  1  gallon  boiling  water),  and 
rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  For  10  pounds  fruit,  make  a  syrup 
of  10  cups  sugar  and  5  cups  water,  skim  syrup  and  add  figs,  boiling 
gently  1  hour.  Lift  figs  carefully  onto  a  platter,  and  after  draining 
well,  transfer  to  other  platters,  and  place  in  the  sum  to  dry.  Turn 
over  frequently  so  each  fig  will  dry  well.  After  two  or  three  days 
of  hot  sun,  cook  figs  again  in  the  same  syrup  another  good  hour. 
Repeat  the  drying  process,  and  cook  again  in  same  syrup  the  third 
time.  When  sun  dried  after  the  third  cooking,  the  figs  should 
have  a  candied  look  on  the  surface.  Keep  the  figs  in  as  good  shape 
as  possible,  it  being  necessary  sometimes  to  pull  them  gently  into 
shape.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar  and  put  away  in  stone  crock  be- 
tween sheets  of  oiled  paper.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Durand. 

CANDIED  GRAPE  FRUIT 

Soak  grape  fruit  shells  in  water  over  night,  then  cut  in  strips 
with  scissors.  Boil  till  tender  changing  the  water  twice.  Make  a 
syrup  of  two  parts  sugar  to  one  of  water,  put  in  grape  fruit  and 
cook  till  it  is  clear  and  syrup  thick,  then  spread  fruit  in  platters  and 
when  cold  roll  in  granulated  sugar  and  dry. 

Mrs.  Theodore  Welch. 

110 


CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

Prepare  same  as  French  creams  but  drop  molds  into  the  fol- 
lowing- V2  pound  Baker's  chocolate,  butter  size  walnut,  paraffine 
size  hickory  nut.  Melt  over  steam  and  remove  molds  with  silver 
fork  Place  on  oiled  paper.  Do  not  have  chocolate  too  hot.  While 
chocolate  is  still  warm  end  soft,  halves  of  pecans  almonds  or  can- 
died cherries  may  be  placed  on  top  of  each  mold.    Keep  cold  but 

do  not  put  in  ice  box.  ,   .  c  u  1 

Miss  Echo  Elizabeth  Jarvis,  Polytechnic  Elementary  School. 

FUDGE 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  milk  H  cup 
ground  chocolate,  butter  (size  of  a  walnut),  pinch  of  salt.  Boil 
until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water.  Miss  Mary  Boal. 

MOLASSES  TAFFY 

Four  cups  white  sugar,  two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  hot  water, 
one  cup  "Red  label"  Karo  syrup,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  large 
tablespoons  vinegar.    Put  all  together  in  very  large  sauce  pan  or 
preserving  kettle,  to  prevent  boiling  over    Stir  over  slow  fire  until 
melted  then  let  boil  without  stirring  until  it  is  crisp  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.   Pour  quickly  into  well  buttered  deep  pan  to  cool 
As  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  bear  in  the  hands  remove  from  pan 
and  pull,  using  tips  of  fingers  as  much  as  possible  and  taking  care 
not  to  let  the  candy  twist,  as  that  breakes  the  pores  and  makes  it 
heavy  instead  of  light  and  porous  as  it  should  be.  Do  not  use  butter 
or  flour  on  the  hands.    If  the  candy  begins  to  stick  to  the  hands 
put  it  down  on  a  buttered  pan  for  a  moment  while  you  wash  your 
hands  quickly  in  very  cold  water  and  dry  slightly.    If  the  flavor 
of  pepp^rmin^  is  liked,  put  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint  while 
pulling    Pull  as  long  as  you  can,  then  put  on  bread  board  to  cod. 
When  thoroughly  cool,  put  in  tin  box  or  covered  dish,  as  candy 
quickly  absorbs  moisture  and  gets  sticky  if  left  m  open  air 
4       y  Mrs.  C.  J.  Cheesewnght. 

SUGARED  ORANGE  PEEL 
Cut  most  of  white  off  of  peeling  and  slice  thin.  Soak  in  cold 
water  two  days,  changing  water  once.  Make  syrup  of  2 cups  sugar 
and  3  cups  water.  Boil  peel  in  syrup  slowly,  3  hours  (until _  syrup 
is  nearly  gone.)  Drain  in  colander,  then  spread  on  platter  to  cool 
and  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar.        Mrs.  W.  H.  Roberts. 

Beverages 

"Mingles  with  the  friendly  bowl, 

The  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul. 

— Pope. 

A  REFRESHING  DRINK 

Put  into  your  punch  bowl  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,,  add 
juice  of  6  lemons,  stir  until  sugar  melts.  Put  in  three  peeled  lemons 
sliced  very  thin.  Leave  in  the  ice  until  you  are  ready  to  use  it  Add 
then  a  dozen  sprays  of  green  mint  and  a  quart  at  least,  of  Ponded 
ice  Stir  well  for  a  minute  and  pour  from  a  height  into  it  Z  or  6 
bottles  of  imported  ginger  ale.  Mrs.  Howard  Huntington. 


MARYLAND  GRAPE  JUICE  CUP 

One  quart  white  or  red  Calwa  grape  juice,  y2  pint  granulated 
sugar,  y2  pint  lemon  juice,  juice  of  two  oranges,  2  tablespoons  of 
pineapple  juice,  1  pint  Whiterock  or  Shasta,  1  or  2  slices  pineapple 
Z  tablespoons  cherries,  one  cucumber  rind  sliced.    Enough  for  six! 
nTTnn  _       ■'  Mrs.  D.  M.  Linnard. 

CURRANT  AND  RASPBERRY  SHRUB 

Pound  4  quarts  of  ripe  currants  and  3  quarts  of  ripe  raspberries 
in  a  stone  jar  with  a  wooden  pastle,  then  squeeze  every  drop  of 
juice  out;  put  it  into  a  parcelian  kettle  and  boil  hard  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  put  in  4  pounds  of  white  sugar;  let  it  boil  once  more  and 
skim  will  rise ;  after  skimming  let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  after  which 
skim  off  all  remaining  impurities,  add  a  quart  of  good  brandy, 
shake  hard  for  five  minutes,  bottle  and  seal  up,  laying  bottles  on 
their  sides  when  put  away.  Miss  Katherine  B.  Connell. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL 

Nine  cups  juice,  3  cups  brandy,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2 
tablespoons  cloves,  1  tablespoon  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  V2 
tablespoon  sugar.    Boil  until  thick.  Mrs.  Emil  Kayser. 

A  Few  Things  Worth  Knowing 

To  keep  the  top  of  the  dining  table  in  good  condition,  make 
a  bag  of  several  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth  and  fill  it  with  powdered 
pumice  stone.  Drop  this  in  sweet  oil  and  rub  the  surface  well. 
Finish  polishing  with  a  chamois  skin. 

Silk  Gloves  Cleaned :  To  wash  silk  gloves  and  keep  them  pure 
white,  use  cold  water  and  white  soap  and  wash  them  at  night. 
Rinse  well  in  water  slightly  blued  and  let  dry  during  the  night.  In 
the  morning  they  will  be  found  soft  and  white.  Gloves  washed 
in  this  way  will  never  turn  yellow. 

I  find  that  baking  powder  biscuits  are  much  better  when  the 
dough  is  rolled  thinner  than  usual  and  two  cuts  are  made  for  each 
biscuit,  laying  one  on  top  of  the  other.  When  made  in  this  way 
biscuits  will  break  open  at  once  and  seem  more  dainty. 

A  handful  of  dry  salt  dampened  with  turpentine  will  remove 
the  brown  stains  from  porcelain. 

To  keep  white  enamelware  from  discoloring,  make  a  strong 
solution  of  baking  soda  and  rain  water.  Put  the  utensils  in  and  boil 
them  hard.   They  will  be  as  white  as  new. 

If  almonds  after  being  blanched  are  plunged  into  cold  water 
they  will  keep  snow  white.  To  blanch  them  it  is  best  to  put  them 
into  cold  water  and  let  it  come  to  boiling  point. 

When  boiling  rice  or  beans,  two  things  which  boil  over  easily, 
put  in  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  this  will  stop  the 
trouble  at  once. 

When  steaming  potatoes  put  a  cloth  over  them  before  putting 
the  lid  on.  They  will  take  much  less  time  to  cook  and  be  more 
meally  when  done  in  this  way.  Mrs.  Walter  A.  Edwards. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains:  Ten  cents  worth  of  chloride  of  lime, 
1  pound  Sal  Soda,  2  quarts  soft  water.  Leave  in  a  few  minutes  only. 
Rinse  in  clean  water  immediately.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Torrance. 

112 


Real  Estate 
Rentals 
Loans 


William  R.  Staats  Company 

ESTABLISHED  18S7 

INVESTMENT  BANKERS  and  BROKERS 

65  SO.  RAYMOND  AVE..  PASADENA 


Stocks 
Bonds 
Insurance 


Index  to  Tried  Receipts  of  Pasadena 


Relishes 

Artichoke  and  Caviar  15 

Bacon  and  Tomato   12 

Caviar  and  Tomato   11 

Figs  and  Cream  Cheese... 12 

Lobster  Cocktail   11 

Olive  and  Walnut   12 

Penelope's  Special   12 

Stuffed  Egg   11 

Sardine  Canape   11 

Tomato  and  Caviar  11 

Tomato  Cocktail   11 

Tomato  and  Sardine  12 

Soups 

Bisque  of  Oysters   18 

Black  Bean   16 

Clam   18 

Clear   13 

Clear  Tomato   13 

Cream  of  Carrot  .   17 

Cream  of  Spinach   15 

Cream  of  Onion  18 

Creole   16 

Creole  Gumbo  14 

Egg  Balls   13 

English  Corn   17 

Fish  Chowder   17 

Kornlet   17 

Meat  Dumplings   13 

Minced  Clam   16 

Mushroom   17 

Oatmeal   16 

Puree  of  Potato  15 

Royal  Custard   13 

Scotch  Broth   18 

Queen  Victoria  14 

State  of  Maine  Chowder.. 17 

Split  Pea   15 

Stock   13 

Tomato  Bisque   15 

Tomato   18 

Yellow  Soup   14 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish 

Baked  Lobster   22 

Breaded  Fillet  of  Sole  19 

Codfish  Bake   20 

Codfish  Balls   21 

Codfish  in  Ramekins   18 

Courtbouillon  of  Fish  19 

Deviled  Crab   21 

Escalloped  Crab   21 

Fish  Timbale   21 

Fish  Turbat   21 

Fish  Souffle   20 

Halibut  Rolls   19 

Maine  Codfish  Balls  20 

Minced  Clam   20 

Molded  Salmon   19 

Oysters  on  Toast   21 

Panned  Oysters   20 

Salmon  Loaf   20 

Salmon  Roll   19 

Entrees 

Angels  on  Horseback  24 

Brain  Timbales   25 

Chili  Renos   22 

Clam  Boudinettes  24 

Clam  Patties   23 

Corn  and  Clam   22 

Escalloped  Oysters   23 

French  Mushrooms   22 

Frog  Legs   22 

Gratin  of  Lobster   23 

Lobster  Cutlets   23 


Pimientoes  a  la  Creme...24 

Shrimp  Curry  24 

Stewed  Kidneys   24 

Sweet  Breads   24 

Meats 

Bacon   31 

Baked  Ham   31 

Baked  Ham  with  Apples.. 31 

Baked  Steak   27 

Beef  Goulash   28 

Beef  Italian  31 

Beef  Loaf   27 

Beefsteak  Pudding   27 

Boned  Breast  of  Lamb  29 

Chili   Con   Carne  31 

English  Meat  Chops  33 

Escalloped  Veal   34 

Filet  of  Pork  or  Beef  26 

Frizzled   Beef   31 

Ham  Croquettes   31 

Ham  Mousse   32 

Hamburg  Steak   35 

Jellied  Tongue   33 

Jellied  Veal   33 

Lamb  Stew   31 

Meat  Balls  with  Cabbage. 27 

Meat  Croquettes   26 

Meat  Loaf   27 

Meat  Souffle   ?9 

Meat  and  Rice   30 

New  England  Dinner  30 

Pasteys   27 

Pot  Roast   30 

Roast  Beef   25 

Roast  Lamb   28 

Smothered  Steak   26 

Stuffed  Cabbage   34 

Steamed  Beef   26 

Stuffed  Lamb   31 

Sour  Roast   33 

Suet  Crust   29 

Tamale  Loaf  27 

Timbales  of  Cold  Meat  29 

Timbales  of  Veal  32 

Using  Leftovers   29 

Veal  a  la  Dobe  ...34 

Veal  and  Rice   28 

Veal  Loaf   28 

Veal  Loaf  34 

Yorkshire  Pudding   25 

Chicken 

Alabama  Chicken   35 

Chicken  Mousse   36 

Chicken  Pie   37 

Chicken  Souffle   37 

Chicken  en  Casserole   35 

Cream  Chicken   36 

Creamed  Rabbit  35 

Oyster  Stuffing   37 

Pressed  Chicken   36 

Roast  Wild  Duck   37 

Steamed  Chicken   37 

Sauces 

Bernaise   38 

Cucumber  39 

Cranberry  39 

Ginger    39 

Hollandaise   38 

Horse  Radish   38 

Italian   39 

Mint   38 

Mushroom   39 

Spanish  Tomato   39 

Tomato   38 


Salads 

Artichoke   45 

Asparagus  and  Grapefruit '  46 

Avocado   43 

Bolivia   . . .  43 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing  '.40 

Bouquet   42 

Campestris   47 

Carrot   45 

Cabbage  Slaw  Dressing. .  .40 

Cheese  Balls   43 

Cheese  Croquettes   45 

Cheese  and  Bar-le-duc  45 

Cheese  and  Pineapple   43 

Cheese   41 

Chicken  Aspic   !45 

Cole-Slaw   41 

Cream  Cheese  45 

Cream  Mayonnaise   40 

Cream  Dressing   40 

Cucumber  Jelly   40 

Fish   46 

Frozen  Fruit   47 

Fruit  Combination   43 

Fruit   47 

Fruit   43 

Fruit   44 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing  41 

Indian  44 

Jellied  Cabbage   46 

Jellied   Grape  and  Pine- 
apple  44 

Marshmallow   42 

Mayonnaise   39 

Oyster   45 

Russian  Dressing   40 

Pineapple   44 

Perfection   45 

Roquefort  Dressing   41 

Salad  Dressing  40 

Salad  42 

Sweetbread   44 

Thousand  Island  Dressing  41 

Thousand  Isle  Sauce  41 

Tomato  Aspic   43 

Tomato  Jelly   46 

Toasted  Cheese  Rolls  46 

Egg  and  Cheese  Dishes 

Cheese  Puffs   49 

Cheese  Souffle   49 

Eggs  au  Gratin   48 

Eggs  Creole   49 

Efg  Cutlets   48 

Ep^s  in  Tomatoes   48 

Eggs  in  Rolls   49 

Eggs  with  Nuts   49 

Egg  Timbales   48 

Egg-  Timbales   49 

Egg  Souffle   50 

East  Indian  Eggs   50 

Savory  Eggs   50 

Swiss  Fondue   48 

Vegetables 
A  New  Way  to  Cook  Corn  55 

Baked  Beans   53 

Baked  Egg  Plant   51 

New  York  Ginger  Snaps.. 81 

Nut  Strips   80 

Nut  Cookies   81 

Nut  Wafers   79 

Oatmeal  Drops   81 

Rolled  Oat   79 

Scotch  81 

Scones   82 


Soda  Kisses    82 

Springerlie   ,   "si 

Sugar   .'79 

Walnut  Jumbles    78 

Walnut  Wafers   '  81 

Walnut  Wafers    80 

Walnut  Cookies   79 

Pies 

Astor  House  Mince  Meat.. 84 

Chocolate  Cream   83 

Chocolate  Cream   83 

Oocoanut  Cream   85 

Cottage  Cheese   83 

Crust   ;....83 

Cream    84 

Cream  Puffs   84 

Custard   83 

Idea  for  Meringue  83 

Lemon   84 

Meatless  Mince  Meat."  .'.'.'.'.* 85 

Mother  Bang's  Lemon  83 

New  England  Lemon  85 

Pumpkin   84 

Raisin   84 

Rhubarb  ."  .*  83 

Squash  84 

Hot  Desserts 

Baked  Bananas   , 

Black  Pudding   87 

Carrot  Pudding   86 

Canary  Pudding   88 

Chestnut  Apples   86 

Chocolate  Pudding  87 

Date  Pudding   86 

Delmonico  Apples  86 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

Fig  Pudding  90 

Fruit  Pudding  85 

Graham  Pudding  87 

Honeycomb  Pudding  90 

Jelly  Pudding  85 

Johnnie's  Delight   87 

Kiss  Pudding   89 

Lemon  Pudding   87 

Orange  Puffs   86 

Peach  Pudding  86 

Persimmon  Pudding   87 

Poorman's  Pudding   89 

Pudding  Sauce   90 

Pudding  Sauce   88 

Pudding  Sauce  89 

Prune  Souffle   90 

Queen  of  Puddings  88 

Raisin  Puffs   90 

Rice  Souffle   55 

Sponge  Pudding   88 

Steamed  Pudding   88 

Steamed  Bread  Pudding... 87 
Steamed  Apple  Pudding.  ..86 
Steamed   Chocolate  Pud- 
ding  90 

Suet  Pudding   89 

Cold  Desserts 

Apple  Float   94 

Banana  Fluff   96 

Baked  Pears   94 

Caramel  Pudding   94 

Caramel  Custard   93 

Charlotte  Russe   91 

Creamed  Pineapple   92 

Custard   96 

Custard   96 

Date  Pudding   93 

Date  and  Pecan   91 

Fairy  Fluff   97 


Rice  Puddings   94 

Rice  Puddings   94 

Snow  Pudding    94 

Spanish  Cream   95 

Strawberry  Meringue  94 


92 
.91 
.95 

.99 
100 
100 
98 
97 


Floating  Island   96 

Fruit  Cream  93 

Gooseberry  Fool   95 

Grape  Juice  Souffle   91 

Lemon  Custard   95 

Macaroon  Whip   96 

Marshmallow  Pudding  93 

Marshmallow  Puddin°-  ....91 

Moulvern  Pudding   96 

Nutted  Cream  95 

Orange  Short  Cake   93 

Pineapple  Pudding   91 

Prune  Pudding  93 

Prune  Whip  94 

Rice  Pyramids   96 


Sunday  Dessert 
Three-in-One  Dessert. 
Wine  Jelly   

Frozen  Desserts 

Apricot  Ice   

Baked  Alaska   

Caramel  Ice  Cream  

Chocolate  Ice  Cream.. 

Florentine  Loaf   

Frozen  Pudding   97 

Frozen  Pudding  98 

Frozen  Marshmallow   100 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbet  97 

Lemon  Ice   99 

Lalla  Rookh   101 

Marshmallow  Ice  Cream.. 98 

Maple  Mousse   97 

Maple  Mousse  100 

Maple  Mousse  101 

Mousse   .101 

Marshmallow  Mousse ....  100 

Manhattan  Pudding  97 

Orange  Sherbet   99 

Peach  Sherbet   100 

Peach  Ice  Cream   98 

Philadelphia  Caramel   99 

Pineapple  Sherbet   100 

Raspberry  Cream   99 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  99 

Three  of  a  Kind  Sherbet..  101 
Chafing  Dish  Receipts 

Chicken  a  la  King  102 

Creamed  Tripe  and 

Oysters   101 

Dream  Cakes   102 

English  Monkey   102 

Sardine  Newberg  102 

Welsh  Rarebit   101 

Preserves,   Jellies  and 
Pickles 

Apricot  Pickles   105 

Apricot  Marmalade   105 

Bengal  Chutney  106 

Black  and  Loganberry 

Marmalade   104 

Cauliflower  Mustard 

Pickle  107 

Chili  Sauce   104 

Chutney  Sauce  104 

Cranberry  Marmalade  ...102 

Currant  Conserve   105 

Currant  Bar-le-duc  104 

East  India  Chutney  107 

Fig  Pickle  106 

Ginger  Pear  105 

Grape  and  Nut  Compote..  103 

Green  Tomato  Pickle  107 

Green  Tomato  Sov  106 

Horse  Radish  Pickle  108 

Indian  Vinegar   106 

Mint  Jelly  103 

Mint  and  Apple  Jelly  103 

Mustard  Pickle   108 

Mustard  Pickle   107 

Orange  Marmalade   103 

Orange  Marmalade   103 

Peach  Chutney   104 

Pickled  Figs   107 

Pickled  Pepper  Hash  105 

Pepper  Hash   104 

Quince  Honey   104 

Sliced  Cucumber  Pickle..  108 
Spiced  Concord  Grapes  ..104 

Spiced  Currants  ...103 

Spiced  Figs   106 

Spiced  Grapes  103 

Sweet  Pickle  106 

Tomato  Mince  Meat   105 

Tomato  Ketchup   105 

Tomato  Relish   104 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle.  106 
Candies 

Candied  Figs   110 

Candied  Grapefruit   110 

Chocolate  Creams   Ill 


Divinity  Candy   no 

Fondant   109 

French  Creams  109 

Fruit  Bar   *  *hq 

Fudge  i .....  "ill 

Maple  Cream  Walnuts. .  .109 

Maple  Nut  Foam  108 

Maple  Nut  Loaf   109 

Mints    no 

Molasses  Taffy   m 

Nougat    109 

Preserved  Figs   no 

Sea  Foam   108 

Stuffed  Dates    109 

Sugared  Orange  Peel  Ill 

Taffy  no 

Beverages 

A  Refreshing  Drink  Ill 

Blackberry  Cordial   112 

Currant  and  Raspberry 

Shrub   112 

Maryland  Grape  Juice 

Cup   112 

Mint  Julep    46 

Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes.. 51 

Beans   50 

Broiled  Tomatoes   .51 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. .  .54 

Corn  Oysters   52 

Corn  Pudding   52 

Corn  and  Tomatoes  51 

Celery  Croquet  55 

Creamed  Cucumber  53 

Creamed  Hominy   54 

Escalloped  Onions   53 

Fried  Tomatoes   52 

Italian  Spaghetti   54 

Nut  Loaf   56 

Old  Virginia  Tomatoes  51 

Pea  Souffle   ..52 

Potato  Dots   54 

Red  Cabbage   53 

Rice  with  Tomato  Sauce.. 53 

Spanish  Beans   54 

Spanish  Enchaladas   54 

Spanish  Rice   53 

Spanish  Rice   54 

Spanish  Tomatoes   51 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant   50 

stuffed  Cucumbers  52 

Stuffed  Potatoes   52 

Sweet  Potatoes  with 

Cheese   54 

To  Cook  Tomatoes  51 

CamD   and   Club  Dishes 
Bachelor  Griddle  Cakes... 56 

Bacon  Southern  Style  57 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  56 

Boiled  Potatoes   56 

Camp  Coffee   56 

Camp  Hunger  Pancakes ...  56 

Chafing  Dish  Beef  58 

Chicken  a  la  Creole  58 

Flapjacks   56 

French  Salad  Dressing  58 

Grape  Soup   57 

Montana  Maverick   57 

Onion  Soup   57 

Orrok  Wine  Cup  57 

Oyster  Cocktail   57 

Oyster  Kirkpatrick   57 


Scotch 


57 


Scones 
Breads 

Baking  Powded  Biscuit 

Beaten  Biscuit  

Brown  Bread   

Bran  Crackers   

Cheese  Roll  Biscuit  64 

Coffee  Cake   65 

Coffee  Cake   

Coffee  Cake   

Coffee  Cake   

Corn  Bread   

Corn  Bread   

Corn  Gems   , 

Custard  Corn  Bread 

Entire  Wheat   

Fine  Ginger  Bread.. 

French  Biscuit  59 

Gluten  Bread   ...60 


60 
62 
60 
64 


63 
63 
63 
61 
61 
62 
62 
59 
59 


Gluten  Muffins   63 

Graham  Biscuits  64 

Graham  Bread   60 

Graham  Bread   60 

Graham  Bread  with  Wal- 
nuts  64 

Graham  Muffins   64 

Graham  Muffins   65 

Health  Bread   59 

Health  Gems   64 

Muffins   60 

Muffins   60 

Nut  Bread   62 

Nut  Bread   64 

Nut  Bread   65 

Parker  House  Corn  Cake.. 62 

Parker  House  Rolls  58 

Peanut  Biscuit   59 

Potato  Rolls   61 

Popovers   61 

Raisin  Bread   60 

Sally  Lun   64 

Southern  Corn  Bread   61 

Spoon  Bread   62 

Squash  Muffins   60 

St.  Augustine  Corn  Dodg- 

gi*s   ...62 

Sweet' Potato  Pone  64 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit  61 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins... 60 

White  Bread   58 

Wholesome  Bread  62 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuits  59 

Doughnuts.  Waffles, 
Pancakes 

Chicken  Dumplings   65 

Cream  Doughnuts   67 

Cream  Fritters   66 

Doughnuts   66 

French  Toast   65 

German  Pancakes   6b 

Jane's  Doughnuts   66 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes   66 

Raised  Doughnuts   66 

Raised  Doughnuts   6b 

Pound  Cake  Waffles   65 

Waffles   65 

Waffles   66 


Cakes 

Angel  Food   67 

Apple  Sauce   76 

Apple  Sauce   77 

Aunt  Fanny's  Tea  Cakes.  .75 

Apple  Fruit   74 

Bisque  Torte   69 

Blitz  Kuchen   76 

Britzen  Meringue  77 

Buckeye   71 

Boiled  Sponge   70 

Brown  Sugar   72 

Caramel   73 

Caramel  71 

Cake  for  Maple  Mousse  67 

Chocolate   70 

Chocolate  Loaf  72 

Chocolate   74 

Children's  Sponge   69 

Cinnamon   77 

Cinnamon  Bun   77 

Citron  Pound   68 

Cream  Sponge   67 

Cup  Cake   68 

Date   71 

Date   73 

Devil's  Food   70 

English  Loaf  Cake  68 

Fruit  Cake   74 

Fruit  Cake   74 

Fruit  Cake   73 

Fruit  Cake   77 

Ginger  Puffs   75 

Ginger  Gems  75 

Gilt  Edge   71 

Honey   77 

Ice  Cream   75 

Inexpensive  Layer   72 

Jersey   75 

Jumbles  75 

Lady  Baltimore   71 

Leb  Kuchen   68 

Lightning   78 

Marble   J5 

Mary  Jane's   69 

Marshmallow   69 

Marshmallow  Frosting  77 

Maple  Sugar  Frosting  78 


Mocha   71 

Orange  Layer   72 

Plain  Cake   ,  1% 

Potato  Sponge  70 

Pound  Cake   67 

Raisin   74 

Reerncken  Cake  47 

Scotch  Short  Bread  77 

Scotch  Short  Bread  76 

Scotch  Short  Bread   74 

Scotch   73 

Silver   68 

Soft  Ginger  Bread   77 

Southern  Nut   76 

Sponge   69 

Spice  and  Nut   75 

Spice   ...77 

Sunshine  69 

Tea  Cakes   75 

Tipsy   78 

Velvet  Sponge   70 

Walnut   72 

White   73 

Cookies 

Almond  Macaroons   81 

Anise  79 

Anise  Kisses   79 

Berliner  Kranz   78 

Billy  Goats   79 

Bran   81 

Canada   79 

Chocolate  Macaroons  .....78 

Chocolate  Chips   82 

Chocolate  Kisses   82 

Cookies   g°, 

Cocoa  Fluffs   82 

Cream  Scones   81 

Drop  Cookies   .  80 

English  Tea  Biscuits  80 

Fruit  °2 

Ginger   <» 

Ginger   

Grandma's  Diamond   79 

Hermits   °f! 

Holland   80 

Marguerites  8U 


Pasadena  Stationery  &  Printing  Co. 


47  East  Colorado  Street 

Fine  Stationery 
Office  Supplies 
Die  Stamping 
Printing  -  Engraving 


TtTmT  ii    i      i      i  una  i 


0 


014  485*75  5_ 


:  •  •  •     B  MAY,  Presides! 


THE  SECURITY  NATIONAL 


COLO.  AND  IROADWAf,  CHAMBER  OF  COMMERCE 


WE  a  VgB»gBe  Preelde  af 


,     Capital.  $f 0©,OOC 


I.  S*  Cashier 


E.  COW  FAIR  OAKS  ANB  COLORADO       CAPITAL.  SURPLUS  AND  PROFITS,  994S,0.0< 


me  B.  VSDDERi  President 


•5,  .  ♦ 


■H.     BOX Y,  Treasurer- 


PASADENA  SAVINGS  &  TRUST  CO, 


N.  E.  COR.  FAIR  OAK! 
ASS  COLORADO 


Undivided  Profits,  $s.i©@ 
Capital,  $2Q0?00©     Surplus,  $I28,50Q 


[gNRY  NSWBY.  Chairman  of.  Board 

Ke  C.  DAVIS,  Secretary 


Je  B.  COFXSTQN,  President 


CROWN  CITY  SAVINGS  &  TRUST  CO, 


W,  COR.  MARENGO 
AND  COLORADO 


H.  I*.  STUART,  President 


Undivided  Profits,  $2,2©© 
Capital,  $200,00©     surplus,  $29,ooo 


£  MOUAT»  Cashier 


SAVINGS  BANK 


N.  Be  COR,  RAYMOND 
ANB  COLORADO 


I.  STUART,  Pifesideat 


Undivided  Profits,  f  47,©o© 

» A  PETAL;  $425,00©      SURPLUS,  $50(S00 


UNION  NATIONAL  BAN] 


Hi  E.  COR.  RAYMOND  ANB  COLQRAD( 


Capital  amb  souflos,  S1tleS6S,9@ 


HENRY  NitWW.  Chairman  ©f  Boa? 


I.  Je  Pl%Se  Cftsfcier 


7.  Be  CQSfcSTQN",  President 


W,  CO  Ft  COLORADO  AND  BROADWAY 


Capital,  f  3©e, 


