» 


w 


1  1 MHB 


^  ; 


■ 

TIB 


3R' 


k 


H  I 


n 

■T 


.  -gp 


p 


\ 


BUILDING  MATERIAL 

HIGH  GRADE  MILL  WORK 
A  SPECIALTY 

EXCHANGE  LUMBER  COMPANY 

A  Corporation 
ROANOKE,  VIRGINIA  • 

Phones  661-662 

Valeteria  System  of  Pressing 

We  Specialize  in  all  the  Latest 
Shades  of  Dyeing 

KLENSALL  CLEANING 

AND 

DYE  WORKS,  Inc.      j 

(Settpral  GUpanmg  and  Sgmrj 

806  Franklin  Road  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Crmttp  Cook  Poofe 



"What  have  we  here? 

Such  hints  of  cheer  as  sets  one's  lips 
to  smacking ; 

Then  buy  a  book  to  give  your  cook, 

And  bills  of  fare  both  rich  and  rare 

You  never  will  be  lacking." 

„I„1„I„I„^„I,^■I„I„I„^■^.^.^.I„^»^„^.^.^»lM^MIM|»^.I»^..I..^.^..I..^■■I■.I■■^.^■■^■^.^■■^■■^■^.^■■^■^■■^. 


FOREWORD 

The  following  recipes  have  been  compiled 
through  the  combined  efforts  of  the  Ladies'  Aux- 
iliary of  Woman's  Missionary  Society  of  Trinity 
M.  E.  Church,  South,  of  Roanoke,  Va.  The  recipes 
found  herein  have  been  selected  with  great  care 
and  it  is  hoped  that  they  may  prove  helpful. 

We  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
sincere  appreciation  of  the  services  rendered  by  our 
many  friends  who  have  so  kindly  contributed  re- 
cipes and  other  assistance  in  compiling  this  work. 
We  are  especially  grateful  to  the  ADVERTISERS 
in  this  book  without  whose  co-operation  this  publi- 
cation would  not  have  been  possible  and  we  heartily 
recommend  their  products  as  the  best  and  hope  you 
will  find  it  convenient  to  mention  the  advertise- 
ments when  making  your  purchases. 


CONTENTS 


Page 

Soups     3 

Oysters    5 

Entrees    6 

Cheese  and  Egg-  Dishes  9 

Vegetables    13 

Meats    15 

Breads     19 

Salads    24 

Salad  Dressings    31 

Pies    34 

Puddings  and  Sauces    39 

Sauces 43 

Pickles  and  Sauces 45 

Cakes 49 

Small  Cakes 62 

Cake  Fillings 66 

Desserts    68 

Frozen  Desserts   68 

Canning  and  Preserving 72 

Chafing  Dish  Dainties v 74 

Sandwiches 77 

Candies    79 

Beverages     83 

Miscellaneous    87 

Preserves  and  Marmalade   93 

Definition  of  Terms  Used  in  Cookery 95 

Recipes  for  the  Sick   97 

Carving     109 


HOME  OF  GOOD  PAINTS 

ROANOKE  PAINT  AND  GLASS  GO. 

W.  D.  EQUI,  Proprietor 
104  Church  Avenue,  West  Roanoke,  Va. 


SOUPS 


"A  health  to  the  girl  that  can  dance  like  a  dream, 

And  the  girl  that  can  pound  the  piano; 
A  health  to  the  girl  that  can  write  verse  by  the  ream, 

Or  toys  with  high  C  in  soprano; 
To  the  girl  that  can  talk,  and  the  girl  that  does  not; 

To  the  saint  and  the  sweet  little  sinner, 
But  here's  to  the  cleverest  girl  of  the  lot, 

The  girl  that  can  cook  a  good  dinner." 

CREAM   OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  tomato  juice, 
three  tablespoons  of  flour,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda.  Melt 
butter,  stir  in  flour,  add  tomato  juice,  stirring  constantly,  add  soda,  thin  milk 
and  seasoning,  stirring  all  the  time.  — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 

CRAB  SOUP 

Let  2  pints  of  milk  come  to  boil.  Take  meat  from  6  crabs.  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard, 
add  to  milk,  boil  and  thicken  with  flour  and  crackers,  add  2  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Pour  soup  over  a  sliced  lemon.  — MRS.  L.  B.  FOWLER. 

CLEARING  OF  SOUP  STOCK 

To  one  quart  of  soup  stock  add  the  slightly  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Heat 
with  constant  stirring  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached  and  cook  until  the 
stock  appears  clear.     Strain  through  double  cheese  cloth. 

THICKENING  OR  BINDING  OF  SOUP  STOCK 

Melt  butter  with  flour,  as  for  cream  sauce,  and  add  to  stock  in  desired 
proportions. 

BROWN  SOUP  STOCK 

Six  pounds  shin  of  beef,  three  quarts  cold  water,  twelve  pepper-corns, 
six  cloves,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one-half  cup  turnip  cut  in  dice,  two  or  three 
sprigs  of  thyme,  two  or  three  sprigs  marjoram,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley-^ 
one  bay  leaf,  one-half  cup  carrot  cut  in  dice,  one-half  cup  onion  cut  in  dice, 
one-half  celery  cut  in  dice. 

Wipe  beef,  cut  into  cubes.  Brown  one-third  of  the  meat  in  a  hot  frying 
pan.  Put  other  two-thirds  with  the  bone  into  a  soup  kettle.  Add  water  and 
let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.     Place  over  a  slow  heat,  add  browned  meat  and 

(     3     ) 


heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  Remove  scum  as  it  arises.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours.  Add  vegetables  and  seasoning  about  thirty 
minutes  before  the  end  of  the  time.     Strain  and  cool. 


CHICKEN   SOUP 

A  delicious  soup  is  made  by  cutting  into  pieces  as  for  fricaseeing  a 
large  fowl  to  be  put  on  the  fire  to  simmer  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water  for 
four  or  five  hours.  Add  during  the  last  couple  of  hours,  one  onion  and  a 
stalk  of  celery.  Strain  off  liquid,  stand  it  aside  to  cool  and  remove  the  grease 
from  the  surface.  Put  on  the  fire  again  with  a  finely  chopped  carrot  and 
two  tablespoons  of  barley,  simmering  until  they  are  tender.  Then  add  a 
pint  of  half  milk  and  half  cream  boiled  and  thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour.  Just  before  serving  beat  in  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream — an  agreeable 
addition  to  any  kind  of  soup. 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEATS  AS  A  BASE 

Two  medium  sized  potatoes,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  slice  of  onion,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  celery,  salt,  few 
grains  cayenne. 

Cook  potatoes  in  boiling  salted  water;  when  soft  put  through  a  ricer. 
Scald  milk  with  onion  until  well  seasoned.  Remove  onion  and  mix  milk  and 
potatoes.  Bind  the  mixture  with  the  butter  and  flour  which  have  been  cooked 
together.    Add  seasonings  and  serve  while  hot. 

MACARONI  SOUP 

One  quart  brown  soup  stock,  one-fourth  cupful  macaroni  broken  in  half- 
inch  pieces,  salt  and  pepper. 

MACARONI   SOUP  WITHOUT  STOCK 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain  and  add  to 
stock  heated  to  boiling  point.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Spaghetti  or 
other  Italian  pastes  may  be  substituted  for  macaroni. 


CREAM   OF  CELERY  SOUP 

Two  cupfuls  white  stock,  three  cupfuls  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces,  two 
cupfuls  boiling  water,  one  slice  onion,  two  tablespoons  butter,  three  table- 
spoons flour,  two  cupfuls  milk,  one  cupful  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

Parboil  celery  in  water  ten  minutes;  drain,  add  stock,  cook  until  celery 
is  soft,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald  onion  in  milk,  remove  onion,  add  milk 
to  stock,  bind,  add  cream  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


VEGETABLE 

One-third  cupful  carrot,  one-half  cupful  celery,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
potato,  one  quart  water,  four  tablespoonfuls  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  one-third 
cupful  turnip,  one-half  tablespoonful  finely  chopped  parsley,  one-half  onion. 

Wash  and  scrape  a  small  carrot;  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise;  cut  in 
thirds  lengthwise;  cut  strips  thus  made  in  thin  slices  crosswise. 


GASSELL 

BROTHERS 

Fresh  Fish,  Oysters,  Crabs, 

Shrimp, 

Crab  Meat  and  Clams 

Rooms  32-34-36  Citj 

r  Market, 

Roanoke,  Va. 

Phone  923 

Free 

Delivery 

OYSTERS 

"He  was  a  bold  man  that  first  ate  an  oyster." 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

1  tablespoonful  of  horseradish,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful 
Worcester  sauce,  2  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoonful  Tomato 
Catsup,  y2  teaspoonful  Tabasco  Sauce,  8  teaspoonsful  salt. 

—MRS.  L.  B.  FOWLER. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

Drain  Oysters  into  a  baking  dish,  put  a  good  layer  of  oysters  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper;  put  bits  of  butter  over  this  and  a  good  layer  of  cracker 
meal;  another  layer  of  oysters,  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  so  until  dish  is 
full.  Bake  until  a  nice  brown,  having  the  oven  very  hot.  Cook  about  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

Clean  and  chill  sixty  small  oysters.  Mix  with  three  teaspoons  of  grated 
horseradish,  one-half  teaspoon  of  tobasco  sauce,  five  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice,  three  tablespoons  of  Worcester  sauce,  one  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  of 
salt,  three  tablespoons  of  catsup.     Serve  in  sherry  glasses  for  twelve. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

Put  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut  into  double  boiler,  when  this  is  soft 
stir  in  one-half  cup  oJ  thick  cream,  let  come  to  boil  and  thicken  with  flour 
enough  for  a  thick  sauce  (about  two  level  tablespoons) ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Wash  and  drain  in  colander  one  quart  of  oysters,  heat  and  add  to  the 
cream.    Serve  hot.    Very  nice  served  in  hot  patty  cases  or  on  crackers. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

Wash  and  drain  thoroughly  one  quart  of  oysters;  turn  into  a  hot  sauce- 
pan and  shake  and  boil  until  the  gills  curl.  Add  three  pints  of  milk  heated,  a 
salt-spoon  of  pepper,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  two  rounding  tablespoons  of 
butter  rubbed  with  two  of  flour.  Stir  carefully  until  it  just  reaches  the  boiling 
point;  add  two  level  teaspoons  of  salt,  and  serve  with  dainty  crackers. 

MINCED  OYSTERS 

Drain  one  quart  of  oysters  and  mince  (cut  each  in  two  pieces).  Put  over 
fire  and  add  one  cup  of  crumbed  crackers,  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper.  Stir  constantly  until 
oysters  curl.  Put  in  shells,  cover  with  cracker  dust,  dot  with  butter  and 
brown.     Serve  very  hot. 

(     5     ) 


ENTREES 

"Though  my  stomach  was  sharp,  I  could  scarce  help  regretting 
To  spoil  such  a  delicate  picture  by  eating." 

OYSTERS  AND  CELERY  PATTIES 

One  pint  of  solid  oysters,  one  bunch  of  celery,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  two  level  teaspoons  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  rounding 
tablespoon  of  flour,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Cut  celery  into  small  cubes  and  boil  in 
enough  water  to  cover  until  very  tender  (about  one  hour),  adding  salt  when 
nearly  done.  Add  flour,  creamed  with  butter  and  milk  and  egg  mixed  to- 
gether. Five  minutes  before  serving  add  the  oysters,  allowing  them  to  cook 
until  the  gills  curl.    Serve  in  hot  patty  shells.    This  makes  one  dozen. 

BRAIN   PATTIES 

One  set  of  brains,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  can  of  mushrooms  (can  be  omitted). 
Boil  brains  in  enough  water  to  cover  for  about  ten  minutes.  Remove  from 
water  and  chop  fine.  Mix  flour  to  a  paste  with  the  cream  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  water.  When  smooth,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten,  season  and  add  the 
brains.     Serve  hot  in  hot  patty  shells. 

LOBSTER  NEWBERG 

One  large  can  of  lobster,  one  pint  of  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
three  hard  boiled  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cooking  sherry.  Chop  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  add  to  the  lobster;  cream  yolks  with  flour  and  add  pepper,  salt, 
mustard  and  butter.  Heat  cream  in  double  boiler,  and  add  lobster  and  yolks. 
Let  thicken,  add  sherry  just  before  serving.  Serve  hot  in  large  or  individual 
dishes  or  on  toast. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Use  peppers  of  medium  size,  cut  off  the  tops  and  remove  the  seeds  and 
white  membrane.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  then  drain 
and  make  a  filling  as  follows:  Pour  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  over 
a  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs;  add  a  beaten  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  finely  chopped  cold  meat,  and  moisten  with  stock  or  water. 
Fill  the  peppers,  rounding  the  filling  on  top,  not  packing  it,  but  putting  it  in 
loosely.  Sprinkle  grated  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  over'  the  top  and  put  in  a 
pan  with  about  one-half  inch  of  water  in  bottom  of  pan.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  one-half  hour,  basting  the  peppers  (not  the  filling)  several  times. 
Remove  carefully  to  platter  for  serving.  This  dressing  will  fill  six  medium- 
sized  peppers. 

CHICKEN  PATTIES 

Line  deep  patty  pans  with  pastry,  or  cut  it  in  circular  pieces,  fit  on  deep 
inverted  gem  pans,  press  lightly,  prick  well  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  deli- 
cately browned.  Remove  from  the  pans,  fill  with  creamed  chicken  and  gar- 
nish with  parsley.  The  cases  may  be  made  in  advance  and  reheated  for 
serving. 

Creamed  Chicken:  Melt  three  level  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  flour  and  a 
half  level  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  blended  pour  on  gradually,  stirring 
well,  three-fourths  cup  each  chicken  stock  and  cream  or  milk.  Season  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  celery  salt  and  a  few  grains 
of  cayenne;  then  add  two  scant  cups  of  cold  chicken  cut  in  one-third  inch 
cubes.    For  a  change,  before  filling,  roll  the  edges  of  the  cases  in  the  slightly 

(     6     ) 


AKMHTOH  CO* 

"THE  PRICE  IS  THE  THING" 


beaten  white  of  an  egg,  then  in  finely  chopped  parsley,  making  an  attractive 
moss-like  edge.  For  variety,  dip  some  in  egg  and  then  in  finely  chopped  nuts, 
a  mixture  of  almonds  and  English  walnuts  being  good.  The  dipping  may 
have  to  be  repeated  several  times,  until  a  thick  edge  is  formed,  and  should 
be  done  after  the  cases  have  been  reheated.  Creamed  oysters  or  salmon  are 
nice  served  in  the  cases  dipped  in  parsley  or  finely  chopped  bleached  celery 
tips. 

STUFFED  ORANGES 

Remove  enough  of  the  top  from  oranges  to  enable  you  to  scoop  out  the 
pulp.  Chop  oranges,  grape-fruit,  candied  ginger  and  Malaga  grapes  together 
add  a  few  brandied  figs  and  sweeten  to  taste,  place  in  the  orange  rinds  and 
thoroughly  chill.     Serve  as  first  course  either  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

HAM   CROQUETTES 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  grated  ham,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups 
of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one  large  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  little  red  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  ham,  eggs  and  all  together  and 
add  two  spoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup.  Form  croquettes  by  filling  a  small  cornu- 
copia full  of  the  mixture  and  turn  out  on  dish.  Roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

JELLIED  APPLES 

Pare  and  core  nice  tart  apples  and  stick  two  or  three  cloves  in  each; 
put  into  a  baking  pan  with  a  good  deal  of  sugar  and  half  fill  with  hot  water, 
let  cook  on  top  of  stove  until  under  side  is  tender,  then  turn  carefully  and 
set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  finish;  when  done,  they  should  be  whole  and  look 
perfectly  clear.  If  there  is  too  much  syrup  take  the  apples  out  and  boil  down 
until  like  jelly.    Serve  slightly  warm. 

BOUDINS 

Three  cups  of  cooked  beef  chopped  fine  in  a  chopper,  using  a  little  of 
the  fat,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  grated,  three  table- 
spoons of  butter  melted  in  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  water,  three  eggs  beaten 
together,  one  tablespoon  of  onion  juice,  if  liked,  one-half  teaspoon  of  white 
pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  from  one- 
half  to  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  added  by  degrees,  just  enough  to  moisten. 
Grease  small  molds  with  paper  in  the  bottom  and  turn  in  the  mixture.  Set 
in  a  flat  pan,  pour  hot  water  around  the  molds  to  one-third  of  the  top  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Turn  from  the  molds  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  Put  the  sauce  in  the  center  of  the  platter,  arrange  the 
boudins  around  the  edge  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

Remove  skins  from  eight  firm  bananas  and  place  in  a  shallow  pan,  with 
two  level  tablespoons  of  butter.  Dredge  well  with  granulated  sugar  and  add 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Bake  about  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot 
with  meat  course. 

(     7     ) 


BRAIN  CROQUETTES 

Take  one  pound  of  brains,  hog  or  beef,  wash  in  several  waters,  or  soak 
in  water  several  hours,  cleanse  thoroughly  of  blood  and  bone,  take  off  thin 
skin  (beat  four  eggs,  have  these  ready),  place  brains  in  iron  frying-pan  with 
lard,  not  too  much,  mash  with  big  iron  spoon  as  they  cook,  mash  fine.  When 
the  brains  are  half  cooked,  add  salt,  pepper  and  eggs,  stirring  and  turning 
as  you  would  scrambled  eggs,  mixing  thoroughly.  This  makes  a  good  dish. 
Then  if  you  want  croquettes,  cook  the  same  way,  take  off  the  fire,  roll  and 
shape  in  croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  then  cracker  meal,  then  egg  again  and 
crumb,  and  fry.  I  use  lard  sparingly  in  frying  croquettes;  I  find  too  much 
lard  softens  the  croquettes  and  they  crumble.     Turn  them  often. 


DOLPETTES 

Grind  in  a  meat  chopper  one-half  pound  of  well-cooked  cold  meat,  as 
beef,  veal,  poultry,  etc.  Stiffen  it  with  grated  salt-risen  bread,  beat  in  the 
yolks  of  eggs  until  of  the  consistency  to  shape  into  small  balls,  dip  them 
into  beaten  egg,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Then  fry 
them  brown.  Serve  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  tomato  catsup,  or  sauce,  mayon- 
naise, or  other  salad  dressing.  Garnish  with  cold  boiled  eggs,  sliced  or 
stuffed,  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  onion  if  liked. 


MEMO 


(     8     ) 


BAMBY 

The  word  to  use  when  you  want  THE  BEST  BREAD 

at  your  grocers 

Pure  creamery  butter  the  only  shortening  used 


CHEESE  AND  EGG  DISHES 

"Digestive  cheese  and  fruit  there  sure  will  be." 

"Like  woman,  when  an  egg  is  good,  there  is  nothing  better; 

when  it  is  bad  there  is  nothing  worse." 

BAKED  EGGS  AND  CHEESE 

Line  a  buttered  casserole,  shallow  baking  dish,  or  pie  pan  with  a  thick 
layer  of  grated  cheese.  Break  six  eggs  on  the  cheese,  dot  with  small  pieces 
of  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  about  half  of  a  cup  of  rich  sweet 
milk.    Bake  until  the  eggs  are  done  and  serve  immediately. 

CREAM  CHEESE 

Melt  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  cheese  on  back  of  stove.  Make  a  cream 
of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  and  when  thick  stir  in  the  melted  cheese,  and  add  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper.     Serve  with  crackers. 

BAKED  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Put  into  a  pan  or  baking  dish  any  amount  of  cottage  cheese  you  have, 
pour  over  this  some  cream,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  put  in  stove  and 
when  hot  through  beat  it  well,  put  back  in  stove,  beating  it  well  several  times 
and  then  let  it  brown  just  a  little  before  serving.  Do  not  use  enough  cream 
to  make  too  wet. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

One  cup  grated  cheese,  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  a 
pinch  of  celery  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  mix  together,  mould 
with  the  hands  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut,  drop  two  at  a  time  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  lard;  with  a  wire  spoon  keep  the  balls  in  constant  motion — if  al- 
lowed to  rest  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  they  will  pull  apart  and  stick.  A 
moment  is  sufficient  time  to  brown  them.  Place  on  wrapping  paper  for  an 
instant  to  drain. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

1  cup  Swansdown  flour,  1  cup  cheese,  piece  of  butter  size  of  English  wal- 
nut, a  pinch  of  salt,  pinch  of  red  pepper;  rub  flour,  cheese,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  together;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible,  cut  into  narrow  strips  and  bake 
in  not  too  hot  oven.  —MRS.  J.  O.  D.  COPENHAVER. 

CHEESE   FONDUE 

One  cup  of  scalded  milk,  one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  pound 
of  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half 

(     9     ) 


%adine  beauty 
tRequisites 

NadineVanishingCream,50c 
Nadine  Cleansing  Cream,  50c 
Nadine  Almond  Lotion,  50c 
Nadine  Coconut  Oil  Sham- 
poo, 50c 
Nadine   Deodorant   Cream, 

50c 
Nadine  Rouge,  gold  finished 

box, 50c 
NadineRouge,  paper  box,  25c 
Nadine  Lip  Rouge,  25c 
Nadine  Talc,  25c 
Egyptian  Cold  Cream,  50c 
Nadinola  Bleaching  Cream, 
two  sizes,  50c  and  $1 


Our  different  climate  requires  a 
different  Face  Powder 

Nadine  Face  Powder,  blended  in  the  South  by  Southern 
cosmetic  specialists,  is  the  only  powder  that  truly  meets 
the  skin's  requirements  in  our  unusual  climate.  You 
can't  expect  less  adequate  powders  to  cling  through 
sultry  weather  and  blend  so  perfectly.  To  protect  your 
skin  against  the  Southern  sun,  to  add  new  charm  to  your 
complexion,  use  Nadine  and  no  other. 

At  toilet  counters,  50c  a  box,  in  flesh,  pink,  white  or  brunette, 
alluringly  perfumed.  A  miniature  box  and  interesting  book- 
let by  mail  for  4c.  Dept.  H,  National  Toilet  Co.,  Paris,  Tenru 

eNadirie  JacePowder 

uneJLure  ofooutnernJLovefiness 

% 0 

NOTE — The  above  Nadine  items  and  Nadinola  Bleaching  Cream  have  stood  the 
test  for  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century,  with  one  million  satisfied  users  today. 
If  not  entirely  pleased  return  the  package  and  price  will  be  cheerfully  refunded. 

Merit,  Satisfied  Users,  Is  our  Motto 

(     10     ) 


FRANK  A.  EADES 

REALTOR  AND  GENERAL  INSURANCE 

401-402-403  First  National  Bank  Building 

Phone  2985 


tablespoon  of  salt.     Mix  first  five  ingredients,  add  yolk  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
light,  fold  in  whites.     Pour  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 
One  cup  of  flour,  four  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Rub  butter  into  flour,  add  salt,  cayenne  and  cheese.  Mix  with  cold 
water  to  a  soft  dough;  roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  one-fourth  inch  strips.  Lay 
in  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  golden  brown. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  Worcester  sauce,  or  other  relish,  three 
eggs,  one-half  pound  of  cheese,  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Mix  flour  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  little  of  the  water,  and  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  water,  which 
should  be  boiling  hot;  add  the  cheese  sliced  thin,  and  stir  until  thick;  add  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  having  been  beaten  very  light. 
Fold  in  the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and  turn  into  a  well-buttered  dish.  Bake  to  a 
golden  brown  and  serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

Make  a  rich  pastry  as  for  pies — two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-third  cup  of 
lard,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  work  in  one-half  pound 
of  grated  cheese  and  lump  of  butter,  as  large  as  a  big  walnut,  melted. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

Poach  six  eggs,  place  on  buttered  toast,  over  each  one  put  one  spoonful 
of  sauce  made  as  follows:  One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese 
and  serve. 

OMELET  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  to  the  yolks  add  four  tablespoons  of  hot 
water,  and  salt  to  taste,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  and  cook  in  a  hot, 
well-buttered  omelet  pan  or  skillet.  When  done,  fold  over  and  turn  out  on  a 
hot  platter. 

Cheese  Sauce:  One  tablespoon  of  butter  melted,  add  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  stir  together  until  smooth,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  allow  to  thicken,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  one  cup 
of  grated  cheese,  and  when  melted  pour  over  the  omelet.     Serve  at  once. 

EGG  OMELET 

Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Butter  pan  and  have 
it  hot;  pour  in  mixture  and  cook  slowly  on  top  of  stove.  Turn  when  done 
and  serve  at  once. 

EGGS  LA  CREAM 

Four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  dozen  small  spring  onions  minced,  one  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Put  layers  of  each  in  a  baking  pan  until  the  pan  is  filled,  cover  with  new  milk 
or  cream  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  about  one-half  hour. 

(     11     ) 


RICE  OMELET 

One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice;  pour  over  it  one  cup  of  warm  milk,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well,  then  add  three 
well-beaten  eggs.  Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  frying  pan  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil  pour  in  the  omelet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  cooked  through  fold  it 
double,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at  once.     Beat  eggs  separately. 

EGGS  SHIRRED   IN  TOMATOES 

Cut  off  circular  pieces  from  stem  end  of  tomatoes  and  remove  part  of  the 
pulp.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  onion  juice  if  agreeable.  Break 
an  egg  in  each  tomato  and  cook  in  slow  oven  until  egg  is  set.  Serve  on 
rounds  of  hot  buttered  toast. 

GOLDENROD  EGGS 

Put  a  few  slices  of  toast  in  a  baking  dish  or  on  a  meat  platter.  Hard 
boil  six  eggs.  Make  a  cream  sauce  and  chop  into  it  fine  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Pour  over  the  toast  and  grate  the  yolks  on  top.  Put  in  the  oven  to  heat 
before  serving  but  do  not  brown.  It  should  puff  up  very  light.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  For  the  cream  sauce,  use  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  one  cup  of  cream,  for  a  thin  sauce.  If  you  wish  it  thickened,  use 
two  tablespoons  of  flour.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

SOUFFLE 
Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  milk,  warmed,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  melted  in  the  milk,  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  dissolved 
in  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  pour  the  hot  milk  over  it  and  stir  in  the  eggs. 
Pour  at  once  into  a  hot  greased  skillet  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  set. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once. 

CREAMED   EGGS  AND  PIMENTOES 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  one  cup  of  cream  sauce,  one  pimento 
chopped,  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  celery  tops  or  parsley,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Add  the  chopped  pimento,  parsley  and  season- 
ing to  the  sauce  and  last  lay  in  very  carefully  the  slices  of  eggs.  Cook  until 
the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  heated,  lift  out  carefully  and  serve  on  buttered 
toast  or  toasted  crackers. 

Cream  Sauce:  Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in 
a  saucepan  and  rub  together  until  smooth,  then  add  one  cup  of  milk  and  stir 
until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  or  is  creamy.  Take  from  fire  and  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 

A  GOOD  PLAIN  OMELET 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  bowl;  beat  them  until  well  mixed  but  not  very  light; 
add  six  tablespoons  of  warm  water,  a  very  little  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  of  melted  butter.  Put  one  level  tablespoon 
of  butter  or  lard  in  a  perfectly  smooth,  shallow  frying-pan;  when  it  has 
melted,  not  browned,  turn  in  the  egg  mixture,  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Stand  the  pan  over  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  the  egg  con- 
geals in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  lift  the  omelet  with  a  spatula  or  limber  knife 
and  let  the  soft  portion  run  underneath;  shake  the  pan  to  keep  the  omelet 
loose,  lifting  it  until  the  omelet  is  set.  Then  fold  over  the  side  next  to  the 
handle  of  the  pan  and  turn  out  on  a  heated  platter.    Garnish  with  green  peas. 

BREAD  CRUMB  OMELET 
Take  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  fill  the  cup  with  milk. 
Let  this  soak  while  you  beat  three  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately;  the 
whites  quite  stiff.  With  a  fork,  hold  back  the  crumbs  while  you  drain  off  the 
surplus  milk,  then  beat  the  bread  crumbs  and  yolks  together,  with  salt  to 
taste,  then  fold  in  the  whites.  Have  some  butter  in  a  hot  pan  in  the  stove, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  cover  with  a  pie  plate,  and  let  stand  over  the  fire  for 
one  minute,  then  set  on  back  of  stove,  still  covered,  and  let  stand  for  twenty 
minutes,  when  it  should  puff  up  very  light.  Remove  with  a  cake  turner  to  a 
hot  dish  and  fold  over.  This  will  not  fall  or  get  tough  by  standing  and  will 
serve  four  people. 

(     12     ) 


GLOVER  CREAMERY  COMPANY 

MILK— BUTTER— ICE  CREAM 
Phone  361 


VEGETABLES 

"We  are  yours  in  the  garden." 

SPINACH   WITH   SCRAMBLED   EGG 

Cook  spinach  as  usual,  chop  and  season.  Take  two  cups  of  this,  break 
four  eggs  in  omelet  pan,  stir  very  quickly  until  whites  and  yolks  mix,  add 
spinach,  stir  thoroughly  until  spinach  is  well  coated  with  the  eggs  and  serve 
very  hot  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast.  — MRS.  C.  M.  KIRKBRIDE. 

CORN    PUDDING  "VIRGINIA   DISH" 

Cut  corn  off  of  one  dozen  ears  or  use  one  quart  can  of  corn,  to  this  add 
three  or  four  wrell  beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of  sugar,  salt  to  season,  one  cup  sweet 
milk  and  mix  all  together.  Put  in  baking  dish  and  cover  top  with  butter  and 
sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper.  Bake  until  thick  and  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
hot.  —MRS.  RUSSELLE  WATSON. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices  nice  firm  cucumbers,  with  few  seeds.  Boil 
for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  mash  thoroughly,  add  to  each  pint  of  mashed 
cucumbers  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  bit  of  pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  well  and  bake  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  in  a  buttered  pan.  An  excellent  substitute  for  scalloped  egg 
plant. 

SALSIFY  CAKES 

(or  Imitation   Fried  Oysters) 

Scrape  and  boil  tender,  the  salsify.  Mash  well  and  mix  with  bread 
crumbs,  or  crackers,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  an  egg.  Make  out  in  little 
cakes  the  size  of  an  oyster,  roll  in  cracker  dust  and  fry  like  oysters.  One 
can  scarcely  tell  the  imitation  from  the  real. 

FRIED  GREEN   TOMATOES 

Remove  a  layer  of  skin  from  top  of  tomatoes,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch 
slices.  Roll  in  cracker  dust  or  sifted  corn  meal,  heavily  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  fry  in  bacon  fat  or  lard,  until  brown,  turning  several  times. 
When  done,  serve  with  sauce  made  from  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour 
stirred  into  the  grease  in  the  skillet;  stir  in  a  pint  of  water  or  milk,  and  stir 
until  thick.    Pour  over  tomatoes. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE 

Cut  up  a  good  head  of  cabbage,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes.     Drain  off  water  and  make  a  dressing  of  one-half  pint 

(     13     ) 


of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Put  on  fire  to  boil  and  add  a  teacupful  of  cream  and  one 
egg,  mix  with  cabbage  and  boil  five  minutes. 

GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Six  ears  of  corn  (grated),  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  like  pan- 
cakes. 

SALSIFY 

Parboil  after  scraping  off  the  outside,  cut  in  slices,  dip  into  a  beaten 
egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Or  slice  crosswise  five  or  six 
large  plants,  cook  until  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover,  then  dress  with  rich 
milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Put  one-fourth  pound  of  macaroni  into  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  for 
thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  cover  with  one  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  and  cook  thirty  minutes.  Add  one-fourth  pound 
of  cheese,  grated,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  heat  until  the  cheese  is 
dissolved  and  serve.  Add  a  small  pinch  of  soda  to  tomatoes,  stir  and  skim 
before  adding  to  macaroni. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

From  the  stem  end  of  large,  smooth  tomatoes  cut  a  piece  the  size  of  a 
silver  dollar  and  with  a  spoon  scoop  out  as  much  pulp  as  possible  without 
injuring  the  shape,  invert  and  drain.  Mix  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  with  a 
cup  of  finely  chopped  cold  meat,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion  (if  liked),  a  dash  of  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
and  some  of  the  tomato  pulp.  Into  each  tomato  before  stuffing  sprinkle  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  sugar;  fill  with  the  dressing,  arrange  in  a  baking  pan,  put 
a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  and  cover  the  top  with  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  about  twenty  minutes.  When  done  slide  the  cake  turner  under  the 
tomatoes  and  lift  carefully  to  a  platter.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 


MEMO  — 


(     14      ) 


TURNER  &  TURNER 

131  West  Campbell  Avenue  Roanoke,  Virginia 

REAL  ESTATE  AND  INSURANCE  OF  ALL  KINDS 


MEATS 

"There's  no  want  of  meat,  sir.     Portly  and  curious 
viands  are  prepared  to  please  all  kinds  of  appetite." 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

2  heaping  cupfuls  chicken  meat  or  roast  pork,  5  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil, 
3  tablespoonfuls  chopped  pimentoes,  6  tablespoonfuls  chopped  green  peppers, 
1  tablespoonful  capers,  1  can  or  1%  cupfuls  fresh  mushrooms,  %  teaspoonful 
salt,  3  cupfuls  rich  cream,  2YZ  tablespoonfuls  flour,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  2 
egg-yolks. 

Cook  mushrooms  five  minutes  in  the  olive  oil,  then  add  the  mixture  to 
the  chicken,  capers,  peppers,  and  pimentoes,  and  add  a  dash  of  paprika  and 
salt.  Prepare  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  and  cream  (milk  may  be 
used),  beating  the  two  egg-yolks  and  pouring  the  sauce  into  them  when  it  is 
done.  Add  the  chicken  mixture,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  on  diamond- 
shaped  slices  or  buttered  toast.  —MRS.  C.  C.  JACOBS. 

SWISS  STEAK  (In  Casserole) 

1%  pounds  of  round  steak,  1  onion,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  small  carrot, 
flour,  salt,  fat,  paprika,  flour.  Pound  into  the  steak  as  much  flour  as  it  will 
hold,  sear  in  hot  fat,  add  the  onion  and  carrot.  Place  in  the  Casserole  with 
salt,  paprika  and  boiling  water  until  tender.  — MRS.  W.  H.  CARROLL. 

LAMB   (In  Casserole) 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lamb  shoulder  in  pieces  to  serve.  Brown  an  onion  in 
a  skillet.  Remove  the  onion  and  brown  the  lamb  in  the  grease  in  which  the 
onion  was  cooked.  Place  in  casserole,  season  and  dredge  with  flour.  Slice 
two  small  onions,  four  carrots  and  place  in  dish  with  meat,  potatoes  can  be 
added  if  you  wish.  Place  enough  water  in  casserole  to  fill  one-half  way  up 
and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  —MRS.  C.  H.  HAGENBECH. 

CHICKEN  BAKED  IN  CREAM 

Disjoint  chicken  as  for  stewing.  Lay  the  pieces  in  a  shallow  pan  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  meat 
sweet  cream  or  milk  in  proportion  of  one  cup  to  one  medium  sized  chicken. 
Baste  occasionally  with  the  liquor  formed  in  the  pan.  Bake  slowly.  Old  as 
well  as  young  chicken  are  delicious  this  way.      — Mrs.  C.  H.  HAGENBECH. 

BAKED    HASH 

Chop  fine  one  pint  of  cold  beef  and  put  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  cup  of 
stale  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 

(     15     ) 


pepper  to  taste,  add  sufficient  gravy  or  hot  water  to  moisten  but  not  too 
wet.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  well-greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  grated 
crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


BEEF    HASH 

Chop  fine  one  pint  of  cold  beef,  and  if  not  fat  enough  add  suet.  Put  in 
skillet  and  cover  with  hot  water  and  let  cook  one-half  hour,  adding  more 
water  if  needed.  Add  two  biscuits,  crumbed  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
and  one-half  pint  of  cream.  Let  boil  up,  mixing  good.  A  little  onion  may  be 
added  if  liked. 

SAUSAGE 

Meat,  fifty  pounds,  black  pepper,  four  ounces;  red  pepper,  one-half  tea- 
spoon; sage,  one-half  ounce;  summer  savory,  one-half  ounce;  salt,  twelve 
ounces. 

SAUSAGE 

To  thirty  pounds  of  meat  add  eight  ounces  of  fine  salt,  three  ounces  of 
pepper  and  two  teacups  of  sage,  light  measure. 


SAUSAGE 

Seven  pounds  lean  meat,  five  pounds  of  backbone  fat,  seven  spoonfuls 
sage,  five  spoonfuls  salt,  three  spoonfuls  black  pepper. 


PHILADELPHIA  SCRAPPLE 

Cook  a  hog's  head  in  boiling  water  until  the  flesh  will  slip  from  the  bones. 
Take  out  the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  fine.  When  the  liquor  in  which  the 
head  was  cooked  has  become  cold,  remove  the  fat  and  reheat  the  liquor  to 
the  boiling  point.  Add  the  chopped  meat,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each  quart 
of  liquid,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  heat  again  to  the  boiling  point.  Then  sift 
in  through  the  fingers  of  one  hand  while  stirring  with  the  other,  as  in  making 
mush,  enough  meal  to  give  it  the  consistency  of  mush.  Let  boil  vigorously 
several  minutes,  then  set  on  back  of  range  to  cook  more  slowly  for  half  an 
hour.  Stir  occasionally.  When  cooked,  turn  into  bread  pans  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  This  will  keep  several  weeks  in  cold  weather.  Cut  in  slices 
half  inch  thick  and  fry. 

FRIED    CHICKEN 

Kill,  dress  and  disjoint  the  chicken  the  day  before  you  wish  to  cook  it, 
and  set  on  ice.  When  ready  to  fry,  wash  off,  dip  the  pieces  in  flour  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  skillet  on  the  front  of  the  stove  very 
hot  with  your  lard  in  it.  Place  the  chicken  in  the  skillet  and  draw  to  the 
back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  cook 
for  one  hour,  turning  when  a  delicate  brown,  putting  pieces  of  butter  over  it. 


A  TWO-POUND  GROUND   ROAST 

Two  pounds  of  ground  veal  or  steak,  eight  medium  size  crackers,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  water  and  milk  in  equal  proportions,  or  one  cup  water  can  be 
used,  one  tablespoon  butter  or  suet.  Mix  and  form  in  a  loaf.  Then  one 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  thickened  with  flour  and  spread  over  top  of 
loaf.  Put  in  pan  and  pour  warm  water  around  loaf,  basting  often  while  bak- 
ing.   Will  bake  in  two  and  one-half  hours  in  moderate  oven. 

(     16     ) 


A.  S.  PFLUEGER 

JEWELER 

108  West  Campbell  Ave., 
ROANOKE,  VA. 


DIAMONDS 


\  \  I 


m 


RED    LOAF,    HUNTER'S    BEEF,    OR    SPICED    ROUND 

A    RECIPE    MORE    THAN    ONE    HUNDRED    YEARS    OLD 
Copied  from   her  mother's   Book   of   Recipes   in   1790   at   Smithfield,    Va.,    by   Mrs.    Margaret 
B.     Preston,    of    Walnut    Grove,    Washington    County,    Va.,    and    again    copied    for    use    by    her 
daughter,  Mrs.  Eleanor  Preston  Sheffey,  of  Marion,  Va.,  after  her  marriage  in  1835. 

To  a  beef  round  weighing  twenty-five  pounds,  and  smoothly  cut  six  or 
eight  inches  in  depth  through  the  thickest  part  of  the  ham,  or  hind  quarter, 
prepare  three  ounces  saltpetre,  three  ounces  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  ounce 
cloves,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  nutmeg,  all  pulverized  and  well  mixed.  If 
in  cool  weather,  hang  the  round  twenty-four  hours  without  freezing.  If  hot 
weather,  prepare  at  once  by  removing  the  bone,  filling  the  hole  with  suet, 
bandaging  the  round  with  broad  tape  or  cloth  strips,  to  make  it  shapely  and 
compact.  Place  it  in  a  vessel,  perferably  earthenware,  large  enough  to  cover 
it  and  for  convenient  handling.  Rub  it  on  all  sides  with  part  of  the  spice 
mixture  (which  should  be  kept  in  a  close  jar)  for  two  weeks,  every  day  except 
the  Sabbaths,  being  sure  to  reverse  the  position  of  the  round  daily,  else  it 
may  become  slippery.  When  to  be  cooked,  put  it  into  the  iron  oven,  with 
thin  strips  of  hard  wood  beneath  the  round  to  prevent  scorching.  Cover  the 
top  with  a  paste  of  flour,  corn  meal  or  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  wTater  to 
prevent  burning.  Lard  it  with  pieces  of  suet,  or  butter;  fill  the  oven  with 
boiling  hot  water.  Let  simmer  five  or  six  hours,  never  boiling  hard.  Let 
it  cool  in  the  liquid,  then  lift,  drain,  remove  paste  and  trim  in  thin  slices 
around  the  top  as  needed.  When  not  in  use  upon  the  table,  it  can  be  longer 
kept  fresh  and  soft  in  a  closed  earthen  vessel  with  the  liquor  poured  over  it. 
Weight  it  to  keep  it  beneath  the  liquid,  which  can  be  freshened  occasionally 
by  reheating,  or  thinning  with  boiling  water.  If  the  round  is  submerged  in 
a  thin  cloth  bag,  it  is  more  readily  handled.  BY  MRS.  F.  W.  CRAIG. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     17     ) 


—  MEMO  — 


(      18     ) 


The  Best  Car  for  the  Money 

Jarrett-Chewning  Co.,  Inc. 

Show  Room,  505  2nd  Street,  S.  W. 

Service  Station,  125  Albemarle  Ave.,  S.  E. 

Roanoke,  Virginia 


BREADS 


"She   needeth   least,  who   kneadeth   best, 
These  rules  which  we  shall  tell; 
Who  kneadeth  ill  shall  need  them  more 
Than  she  who  kneadeth  well." 


WALNUT    BREAD 

Three-fourths  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  nut  meats,  one 
egg,  three  cups  flour  (Swansdown),  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  (slightly 
rounded),  one  teaspoon  salt,  (level). 

Bake  one  hour.  Have  oven  barely  warm  for  first  fifteen  minutes,  gradual- 
ly increasing  the  heat.     One-half  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added  if  desired. 

MRS.  M.  C.  BURNS. 


SOUR    MILK    BISCUITS 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  and  one-half  cup  of  shortening  and  mix  well  with  butter- 
milk to  make  a  dough  just  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled.  Roll  thin,  cut  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  until  brown  top  and  bottom.  This  takes  about  three  minutes. 
Serve  hot.  —MRS.  RUSSELL  WATSON. 


SPOON    BREAD 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  heated  to  the  boiling  point  and  salted,  add  white 
corn  meal,  stirring  in  very  slowly  to  keep  from  getting  lumpy,  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Then  add  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  pour  in  a  hot 
buttered  pan  and  brown  in  hot  oven.  —MRS.  RUSSEL  WATSON 


POTATO   ROLLS 

One-half  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  one  cup  tepid  water,  one  cup  fresh 
mashed  potatoes,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  three  tablespoons  flour,  two  cups 
warm  milk  or  water.  Mix  and  let  stand  until  very  light.  Then  add:  one- 
half  cup  lard,  two  teaspoons  salt  and  flour  for  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well  and 
let  rise  until  light.  Cut  in  biscuits  size  of  walnut.  Let  rise  and  bake 
quickly.  —MRS.  CHAS.  E.  WHIELDON. 

(     19     ) 


GRIST  BROTHERS 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  FRESH  MEATS 

29  Wall  Street,  Roanoke,  Va.  Phone  1865 

LOWEST  CASH  PRICES 


RISEN   MUFFINS 

Three-fourths  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  luke  warm  water,  1 
pint  sweet  milk  scalded,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  lard,  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  eggs  beaten  lightly,  flour  to  make  stiff 

batter, cool  and  add  ingredients  in  order  given.     Let 

rise  5  hours,  stir  down,  dip  into  greased  muffin  tins.     Let  rise  again  45  min- 
utes and  bake.  —MRS.  J.  M.  APPLE. 


TURNOVERS 

Scald  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  add  one  large  tablespoon  of  butter  (or 
butter  and  lard  mixed)  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Cool  slightly  and  mix 
to  a  sponge  with  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-half  a  cup  of  warm  water 
and  about  four  cups  of  flour.  Let  rise  four  hours  and  mix  to  a  medium  stiff 
dough  with  sufficient  flour  sifted  with  a  little  salt.  Knead  well  and  let  rise 
until  double  in  bulk.  Then  roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  butter  with 
melted  butter  and  fold  over.  Let  rise  and  bake  in  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  —MRS.  ARTHUR  W.  GROVE. 


BROWN   BREAD 

iy2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  graham  flour,  y2  cup  of  corn  meal,  V2  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  %  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  of  ground 
raisins,  4  teaspoonsful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  %  cup 
of  molasses,  *4  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  nuts 
and  raisins,  add  milk  and  mix  well,  then  add  molasses  and  soda  which  have 
been  mixed  together,  bake  in  two  small  loaf  pans  in  moderate  even  heat  45 
minutes.  —MRS.  W.  L.  SCOTT. 


ROLLS 

One  yeast  cake,  three  cups  of  warm  water,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Make  a 
batter  of  water,  yeast  cake,  sugar  and  flour,  let  rise.  Mix  lard,  salt  and  flour, 
add  batter  to  this  until  right  consistency.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


ROLLS 

Cook  one  medium  potato  until  well  done,  when  slightly  cool  put  into  it 
two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  lard  (or  lard  and  butter)  one-half  cake  of 
Fleishman's  yeast  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  potato  water  and  two  heaping  table- 
spoonsful  of  sugar  in  with  yeast.  Use  two  quarts  of  flour  with  teaspoon  of 
salt  sifted  in  it.  Work  lard  and  potatoe  into  flour  like  for  biscuits,  then  add 
yeast  and  potato  water  until  it  forms  soft  dough.  Set  to  rise  for  several  hours 
then  work  down  and  let  rise  again.     Allow  one  and  a  half  hours  for  rising 

(     20     ) 


GOOD  THINGS  TO  EAT 

PRICE'S  DELICATESSEN 

Smithfield  Hams  Cooked  to  Order 
311  South  Jefferson  Street  Phone  582 


after  put   down  in  pans  for  rolls.     Bake   quickly  like   biscuits   letting  them 
thoroughly  soak  after  browned.  — MRS.  R.  G.  DAL-BY. 


NUT  BREAD 

One  pound  of  dates,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  wine, 
three  eggs.    Do  not  beat  eggs  and  add  them  last. 

—MRS.  W.  N.  SAUNDERS. 


WAFFLES 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  rounded  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar  or  syrup,  one 
tablespoon  of  lard,  three  eggs  (beaten  separately).        — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 


SOFT  BATTER  BREAD 

Scald  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  stir  in  slowly  enough  meal  to  make  a  stiff 
mush,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  butter.  When  cool  add  three  well  beaten  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  one-half  hour.  —MRS.  WALTER  A.  CARPENTER. 


DUMPLINGS 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  tea- 
spoonsful  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  mazoia.  Boil  fifteen  minutes 
without  removing  lid.  —MISS  MARY  COOPER. 


SPOON  BREAD 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  small  cup  of  meal,  four  eggs  (beaten  sepa- 
rately) one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Put  milk  on  to  boil,  add  meal  slowly,  stirring  constantly  and  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Take  off  stove,  add  salt,  sugar,  butter  and  when  almost  cold  add 
yolks  of  eggs  and  two  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Fold  in  whites  just 
before  baking  in  pan  greased  with  butter.  MRS.  CHAS.  R.  VENABLE. 

(     21     ) 


This 

Book  Teaches 

Bread  Making — The 
Bread  Winning 

National  Teaches 

Make 

the  "dough"  a 

nd  some  one  else  will 

make  your  bread 

NATIONAL 

BUSINESS 

COLLEGE 

Roanoke,  Virginia 

WAFFLES 

One  and  three-fourths  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  whites  of  two  eggs. 
One  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk 
gradually,  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  and  melted  butter.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Cook  in  hot  greased  waffle  irons  (waffle  irons  should  fit  closely  on 
stove.  Have  irons  well  heated  on  both  sides.  To  fill:  Put  one  tablespoon 
of  mixture  in  each  compartment  near  center  of  eye,  cover  and  mixture  will 
spread  to  fill  irons.     Turn  several  times  until  waffles  are  a  golden  brown. 

—MRS.  CHAS.  VENABLE. 


SALT-RISEN   BREAD 

Slice  thin  two  medium-sized  potatoes,  add  two  tablespoons  of  meal,  one 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  well  and  pour  over 
this  two  pints  of  boiling  water.  Do  this  at  noon  and  keep  in  warm  place 
until  morning,  when  it  should  have  a  foam  on  it.  In  the  morning  if  light 
strain  off  the  potatoes  and  add  to  the  liquid  one  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar;  thicken  with  flour  until  you  have 
a  tolerably  thick  batter.  Set  crock  in  warm  water  until  it  gets  light,  then 
take  one-half  pint  of  milk  and  one-half  pint  of  warm  water,  mix  well  and 
make  up  a  dough  with  the  yeast  and  flour,  not  quite  as  stiff  as  yeast  bread. 
Add  a  good  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  scant  tablespoon  of  lard  to  the  flour.  Knead 
and  let  rise,  then  bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 


NEVER-FAIL  BATTER  BREAD 

One  pint  of  sifted  corn  meal,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  lard,  two  rounding  teaspoons  of  salt,  two 
or  three  eggs.  Add  the  salt  and  lard  to  the  meal,  pour  the  boiling  water  over 
them,  stirring  until  smooth.  Add  the  milk,  then  the  eggs,  beaten  light,  and 
turn  at  once  into  a  well-greased  and  very  hot  baking  dish.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 


BISCUITS 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  rounding  teaspoon  of  soda,  two 
heaping  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  rounding  tablespoon  of  lard,  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  —KATHLEEN  CRAIG  (Age  8) 

(     22     ) 


WALTER  C.  MICHAEL  AND  SON 

Bakers  of  the  ORIGINAL  MICHAEL  BREAD 
Ask  your  grocer,  phone  507,  or  stop  delivery  truck  at  your  door 


PLAIN  CORN   BREAD 

One  pint  good  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two-thirds  teaspoon  Crys- 
tal soda,  all  dissolved  in  milk,  two  level  tablespoons  grease  (bacon  drippings 
is  quite  as  good  as  lard),  use  enough  meal  to  make  a  dough  barely  stiff  enough 
to  handle.  Make  with  the  hands  into  small  pones  and  put  into  a  greased  pan. 
Place  on  rack  of  stove  so  tops  of  pones  will  brown  quickly,  then  set  at  bottom 
of  oven  until  done. 


VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD 

Three  cups  white  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  of 
lard,  three  cups  of  milk  and  three  eggs.  Sift  together  the  flour,  corn  meal, 
sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder;  rub  in  the  lard  cold,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten 
and  then  the  milk.  Mix  into  a  moderately  stiff  batter;  pour  into  well-greased 
shallow  pans,  and  bake  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 


—  MEMO  — 


(     23     ) 


WE  DO  PLEATING 

SHIELDS 

DRY 

GLEANING 

CO., 

Inc. 

New  Home 

711-713 

Franklin  Road,  Roanoke,  Va 

L. 

Phone  727 

SALADS 


'Bestrewed  with  lettuce  and  cool  salad  herbs." 


FROZEN  TOMATO  SALAD 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  cup  vinegar,  enough  sugar  to  "twang"  out, 
Salt  and  pepper.  Mix,  pour  in  can,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  for 
four  hours.  Remove  from  can  by  dipping  in  hot  water.  Slice  and  serve  on 
lettuce  hearts  with  Gelfand's  mayonnaise  dressing. 

—MRS.  RUSSELLB  J.  WATSON. 


FAIRY  FRUIT  SALAD 

One  medium  sized  can  of  sliced  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  three  large 
bananas  cut  same  as  pineapple,  one  pound  of  malaga  grapes  seeded  and  cut 
in  small  pieces. 


DRESSING  FOR  FAIRY  FRUIT  SALAD 

Prepare  by  cooking  in  double  boiler.  Three  tablespoons  of  butter,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  three  egg  yolks  well  beaten.  Cook  till  thick,  then  add 
the  juice  of  one  small  lemon,  pinch  of  salt  and  paprika.  Cook  till  thick, 
remove  from  fire  to  cool,  when  ready  to  serve  add  one-half  pint  of  whipped 
cream  to  dressing  and  mix  with  fruit.  — MRS.  NORA  N.  WOOD. 


FROZEN   FRUIT  SALAD 

One  can  of  white  cherries,  one  bottle  of  maraschino  cherries,  one  can  of 
apricots,  one  can  of  peaches,  one  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  one  can  of  shredded 
pineapple,  three  large  bananas,  one  can  of  bartlet  pears.  Cut  fruit  in  small 
pieces,  add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  Put  in  freezer 
and  pack  well  with  ice  and  salt,  leave  about  three  hours. 

—MRS.  NORA  N.  WOOD. 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

Dissolve  one  package  of  gelatine  in  cold  water  to  soften,  then  add  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three  small  bottles  of  gingerale. 

(     24     ) 


PRESCRIPTION  SPECIALISTS 

McGEE'S  PHARMACY 

Corner  Campbell  Avenue  and  Henry  Street 


After  this  begins  to  congeal  add  one  bunch  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  one 
cup  of  nuts,  one  small  bottle  of  olives  sliced,  one  bottle  o"f  maraschino  cherries 
and  one  can  of  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  this  in  individual  molds. 
When  ready  to  use  turn  out  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Gelfand's  may- 
onnaise dressing.  — MRS.  W.  H.  GILES. 


FROZEN   FRUIT  SALAD 

One  large  can  of  fruit  salad,  three  or  four  bananas,  small  can  of  grated 
pineapple,  stir  in  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  Gelfand's  mayonnaise  using 
juice  also.  Pack  in  a  container  and  surround  with  ice  and  salt.  Let  stand 
for  three  or  four  hours.  After  two  hours  loosen  from  sides  and  stir  thor- 
oughly.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  whipped  cream.  — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 


PRUNE  SALAD 

Select  large,  fine  prunes,  boil  until  tender,  when  cool  slit  lengthwise  and 
remove  seeds,  stuff  with  cream  cheese  and  chopped  nuts,  pressing  the  prunes 
over  this  mixture  leaving  a  space  on  which  to  put  half  a  pecan.  Serve  about 
four  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  cover  or  serve  with  Gelfand's  mayonnaise. 

—MRS.  W.  H.  CARROLL. 


CONGEALED  FRUIT  SALAD 

Two  grape  fruit,  two  oranges,  two  lemons,  one  can  sliced  pineapple,  one 
box  Chalmers  Gelatine  dissolved  in  one  cup  cold  water — then  add  one  cup 
hot  water  and  one  cup  sugar.  Cut  all  fruits  in  small  pieces.  Mold,  serve  on 
lettuce  leaf  with  Gelfand's  Mayonnaise.  Pretty  to  put  chopped  red  cherries  in 
bottom  of  mold.  —MRS.  ERNEST  H.  JENNINGS. 


MOLDED   SALAD 

One  can  pineapple,  one  can  white  cherries,  one  bottle  maraschino  cherries, 
one  box  Chalmers  Gelatine,  one-half  pint  double  cream,  pinch  of  salt.  Soak 
gelatine  in  juice  of  pineapple  one  hour,  then  put  on  stove  until  dissolved, 
add  salt,  strain  and  cool.  When  beginning  to  congeal  put  in  fruit  and  whipped 
cream.  Place  in  individual  molds  with  cherries  in  the  bottom  of  each.  Serves 
10  or  12  persons.  —MRS.  JAMES  FRANTZ. 


RECIPE    FOR    PIMENTO   SALAD 

Soak   two   envelopes   of   minute   gelatine   in   one   pint   of   boiling   water. 
When  dissolved  add:     one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one 

(     25     ) 


7  Passenger  Closed  Cars 

DAY  AND  NIGHT  TAXI  SERVICE 

L.  S.  Eanes,  Manager 

Phones  7  and  686  101  Commerce  Street,  S.  W. 

Prompt  and  Courteous  Service 


teaspoon  of  salt,  (level  full),  one  tablespoonful  onion  juice,  one-half  cup 
chopped  pecans,  one-half  cup  chopped  pimento,  one  cup  chopped  celery,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  cabbage,  one-half  green  sweet  pepper.  Serve  when  cool 
on  lettuce  leaf  with  Mayonnaise.  — MRS.  C.  B.  MITCHELL. 


POINSETTIA    SALAD 

Use  Hawaiian  pineapple,  spread  on  each  slice  a  thin  layer  of  Gelfands 
mayonnaise,  on  this  spread  grated  cheese  with  a  little  sherry  in  it,  then  cut 
petals  from  the  red  sweet  peppers,  or  pimentoes,  and  lay  around  on  each  slice 
to  form  the  flower.  Fill  center  with  Gelfands  mayonnaise  and  in  center  of 
this  put  a  stuffed  olive.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


CALIFORNIA    CHERRY    SALAD 

Carefully  remove  seeds  from  a  can  (one  quart  or  pint,  owing  to  quantity 
desired)  of  large  California  cherries.  Stuff  them  with  whole  blanched  hazel- 
nuts or  chopped  pecans.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  Gelfands  mayonnaise  on  top. 


CUPID'S  SALAD 

Cut  out  heart-shaped  pices  of  tomato  jelly  (that  was  hardened  in 
a  large,  flat  vessel)  and  place  on  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce.  Prepare  a  cup  of 
stoned  olives  sliced,  and  chopped  cucumber  pickle;  mix  with  Gelfands 
mayonnaise  and  place  a  little  heap  upon  each  red  heart.     Very  attractive 


looking  salad. 


FRENCH    FRUIT   SALAD 


To  the  drained  pulp  of  six  oranges,  add  half  a  pound  of  white  grapes, 
halved  and  seeded,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  English  walnut  meats  broken 
in  small  pieces.  Make  one  pint  of  tart  lemon  jelly,  add  the  fruit  and  nuts 
and  pour  into  individual  molds  to  harden.  Garnish  with  lettuce  or  water-cress 
and  whole  grapes  and  serve  with  Gelfands  mayonnaise  dressing  to  which 
a  cup  of  whipped  cream  has  been  added. 


FRUIT  JELL-0 

Two  boxes  of  Jell-0  (orange,  strawberry  or  raspberry  are  the  prettiest), 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  dissolved.  When 
it  begins  to  congeal  add  one  box  of  chunk  pineapple  cut  in  cubes,  one  bottle 
of  Maraschino  cherries,  one-fourth  pound  each  of  English  walnuts  and 
blanched  almonds.  Any  fruit  desired  may  be  used.  Malaga  grapes  cut  in 
half  and  seeded  may  be  used  instead  of  the  cherries.  If  twice  this  quantity 
is  desired,  double  the  proportion  of  all  ingredients  with  the  exception  of  the 

(     26     ) 


SOUTHERN  LOAN  OFFICE 

10  Campbell  Avenue,  East 

M.  T.  Schlossberg 

High  Grade  Jewelry  and  Diamonds  at  Best  Values  in  Roanoke 


pineapple  which  will  be  sufficient.  Nice  to  serve  with  the  salad  course,  or 
as  a  dessert  with  whipped  cream.  Dip  mold  in  cold  water  before  putting  in 
the  Jell-O,  when  ready  to  serve  dip  in  warm  water  and  turn  out  on  a  pretty- 
round  platter. 


CHICKEN    SALAD 

Cut  up  one  chicken,  add  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped,  one  small  plate- 
ful of  chopped  cabbage.  Season  with  celery  seed,  salt  and  a  little  cucumber 
pickle  chopped. 

Dressing:  Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  cream,  three  tablespoons  of  good 
vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  tablespoon  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
mustard.    Add  cream  last. 


STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Peel  tomatoes,  chill,  remove  seeds  and  pulp;  put  one  teaspoon  of  French 
dressing  in  each  and  stand  in  ice  box  until  ready  to  serve,  then  fill  with 
equal  parts  of  finely  chopped  celery  and  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  Gel- 
fands  mayonnaise. 


CRAB    SALAD 

One  pound  of  crabflake  or  two  dozen  crabs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  two  medium-sized  tomatoes,  one  bunch  of 
parsley,  two  green  peppers,  one  salt-spoon  of  paprika,  one  head  of  lettuce, 
twelve  radishes,  twelve  olives,  one  cup  Gelfands  mayonnaise.  Boil  the  crabs, 
and  when  cold,  pick  carefully,  making  the  best  salad.  Cut  the  tomatoes  in 
small  pieces.  Chop  peppers  and  parsley  separately.  Peel  radishes.  Separate 
lettuce  and  allow  to  stand  in  cold  water.  Make  mayonnaise  thin  and  stand 
it  aside.  Sprinkle  the  meat  with  the  lemon  juice  and  paprika  while  hot. 
When  cold  season  with  salt.  Arrange  a  layer  of  crab  meat  in  a  long  dish, 
then  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  chopped  peppers,  then  another  layer  of  meat, 
tomatoes  and  peppers.  Dust  thickly  with  chopped  parsley.  At  serving  time 
garnish  the  individual  plates  with  crisp  lettuce  on  which  the  salad  is  served. 
Arrange  salad  in  a  mound.  Baste  with  Gelfands  mayonnaise.  Heart  of 
lettuce  in  the  center  of  the  mound  with  two  radishes  and  two  olives  make 
an  attractive  dish. 


WALDORF   SALAD 

One  cup  of  sour  apples,  one  cup  of  celery,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice, 
one-half  cup  of  walnut  meats,  broken  in  pieces,  apples  and  celery  in  small 
pieces;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with  Gelfands  mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing. 

(     27     ) 


Why  not  get  your  milk  from  the  most  modern  and 
up-to-date  Plant? 

GARST  BROS.  DAIRY,  Inc. 

Eleventh  Street  and  Salem  Avenue,  S.  W.  Phone  4327 


TOMATO   ASPIC   JELLY 

One  envelope  of  Knox  gelatine,  one-half  cup  of  cold  water,  three  and 
a  half  cups  of  tomatoes,  one-half  large  onion,  two  stalks  of  celery,  two  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  four  cloves,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  two  level  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Soften  the  gelatine  five  minutes  in  the 
cold  water;  cook  together  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  vinegar,  fifteen 
minutes;  add  the  vinegar  and  softened  gelatine  and  stir  until  dissolved,  then 
strain.  Pour  into  a  mold  dipped  in  cold  water  and  set  in  a  cool  place  or  on 
ice  to  congeal.  When  cold  turn  from  the  mould  onto  a  round  platter  edged 
with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  Gelfands  mayonnaise  dressing  over  the  top. 


TONGUE  SALAD 

One  can  tongue,  one  can  pimentoes,  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.    Mix  with  any  good  French  dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


FRUIT  SALAD 

Six  tart  apples,  the  pulp  of  one  and  one-half  dozen  oranges,  two  pounds 
of  blanched  almonds,  one  pound  of  English  walnut  kernels,  four  bunches  of 
celery.  Chop  all  in  small  pieces,  drain  the  juice  from  oranges,  and  mix 
all  well  together,  with  the  following  dressing: 

Dressing:  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut, 
pinch  of  red  pepper,  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  good  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  thick  cream. 
Mix  seasoning,  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  sugar  well  together,  then  rub  the 
butter  in  until  all  is  perfectly  smooth.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  seasoning  to 
the  eggs.  Add  the  vinegar,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  add  cream  last.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Double  the  amount  of  dressing 
three  times  for  salad  given  above.  This  will  be  enough  to  serve  about 
twenty-eight  persons. 


BELL  PEPPERS  AS  A  GARNISH 

Peppers  either  green  or  red  may  be  used  in  a  number  of  ways,  both 
pleasing  to  the  eye  and  palate.  Besides  the  many  ways  of  stuffing  with 
different  meats,  they  are  nice  as  a  garnish  for  many  vegetables  and  salads. 
To  make  pretty  salad  cups,  cut  off  the  small  end  and  trim  the  stem  end 
of  the  peppers  until  the  cup  stands  firmly.  Remove  the  seeds  and  all  white 
portions  and  fill  with  chicken,  salmon  or  potato  salad  or  cold  slaw,  put  a 
little  Gelfands  mayonnaise  or  chopped  egg  on  top  and  set  the  cups  on  lettuce 
leaves.  To  use  as  a  garnish,  cut  the  ends  off  of  the  peppers  and  scrape  the 
inside  clean,  then  cut  in  thin  rings,  and  place  green  ones  over  sliced  tomatoes. 

(     28     ) 


Coats  KANN'S  Where 

Frocks  FASHION  SHOP  FOR  WOMEN  Style 

Furs  Quality  and 

__.„.  32  Campbell  Avenue,  West  _,  . 

Millinery  Price  meet 


For  slaw,  have  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  either  green  or  red  rings. 
The  green  rings  are  nice  to  serve  on  any  salad,  while  the  red  ones  will  make 
boiled  cabbage  or  snap  beans  look  more  tempting. 


BANANA  AND  NUT  SALAD 

Boil  half  a  cup  each  of  sugar  and  water  five  or  six  minutes,  then  add 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  longer.  Select  small,  ripe 
bananas.  Peel  them,  remove  the  coarse  threads,  and,  if  too  large  for  a  single 
service,  cut  them  in  halves  crosswise.  Roll  the  bananas  in  the  cold  syrup, 
then  in  chopped  nuts,  covering  them  completely  with  the  syrup  and  nuts. 
Any  kind  of  nuts  or  a  mixture  of  nuts  may  be  used.  English  walnuts  or 
pecan  nuts  are  good  or  if  mixed  use  a  few  blanched  almonds.  Lay  the 
bananas  on  lettuce  leaves  and  put  a  little  Gelfands  mayonnaise  on  the  center 
of  each,  and  sprinkle  the  dressing  with  bits  of  candied  cherries. 


PINEAPPLE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

Drain  thoroughly,  Hawaiian  pineapple;  place  each  slice  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  cut  them  into  eighths,  leaving  them  together  the  shape  of  the  whole  slice. 
Over  this  sprinkle  a  good  layer  of  grated  cheese,  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of 
stiff  Gelfand's  mayonnaise  dressing  in  the  center  of  each  slice. 


TOMATO  AND  ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Have  firm  ripe  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  thoroughly  chilled.  Peel  and  if 
of  medium  size  cut  in  half,  or  if  larger,  cut  in  slices  about  two  inches  thick 
and  place  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Place  four  stalks  of  asparagus  arranged  in  log- 
cabin  style  or  as  a  cross  on  top  of  each  piece  of  tomato,  having  the  heads 
of  asparagus  turned  the  same  way.  Place  a  teaspoonful  of  stiff  Gelfands 
mayonnaise  in  the  center.  A  little  salt  should  be  sprinkled  over  the  tomatoes 
before  putting  on  the  asparagus.  A  nice  idea  for  Easter  or  where  a  yellow 
idea  is  carried  out  in  refreshments  is  to  procure  yellow  tomatoes.  The 
Royal  Scarlet  brand  of  asparagus  is  prettiest  because  of  its  size  and  color. 


PICTURE  SALAD 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  cabbage  (shaved),  one  cup  of  beets  (cooked 
tender,  diced),  four  hard-boiled  eggs  (chopped  coarsely),  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine  and  enough  French  dressing  to  moisten  well,  together  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

(     29     ) 


January  3rd,  1926 
Completed  my  25th  year  in  Roanoke,  selling  and  repairing  sewing 
machines.  I  sell  new  and  used  Singers,  Electrics  and  foot  driven. 
Mention  this  ad  and  get  a  discount.  Good  allowances  on  all  makes  of 
old  machines  taken  in  exchange.  Hemstitching,  Pleating,  Dress-mak- 
ing and  alterations. 

PLYBON'S    SHOP 

26  Church  Avenue,  West  Phone  3055-J 


COCOANUT  SALAD 

One-half  cocoanut  grated,  two  apples  pared,  cored  and  chopped,  one  cup 
of  celery  chopped,  two  small  onions,  one  tablespoon  of  parsley  chopped,  three 
green  peppers.     Cover  with  French  dressing  and  serve. 


STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Six  ripe  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  of  cream  dressing,  two  cucumbers,  let- 
tuce, salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Scald  tomatoes  and  remove  skins.  Cut  a 
slice  from  the  top  of  each  and  with  a  spoon  remove  the  seeds.  Peel  cucum- 
bers and  cut  them  into  dice,  season  highly  and  mix  with  at  least  half  of  the 
dressing.  Fill  the  cups  with  this  and  put  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  top. 
Sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 


POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  six  potatoes  and  let  them  cool,  then  chop  fine  with  six  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  one  onion. 

Dressing:  One-half  cup  sweet  cream,  one-fourth  cup  granulated  sugar, 
one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Cook  dressing  in  double  boiler  until  it 
thickens  and  let  it  cool,  then  work  thoroughly  through  the  potatoes.  Let 
stand  one  hour  before  using. 


—  MEMO  — 


(     30     ) 


GALDWELL-SITES  CO. 

Booksellers  Stationers  and  General  Office  Outfitters 


SALAD  DRESSING 


'To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  miser  for  vine- 
gar, a  spendthrift  for  oil  and  a  madcap  to  mix  all  the  in- 
gredients together." 


WHIPPED-CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

Whipped-Cream  Salad  Dressing  may  be  prepared  in  quantities  to  last  for 
several  weeks.  Beat  two  eggs  to  a  foam  and  to  them  add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  scant  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  four  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  Cook  these  ingredients  over  hot 
water  until  quite  thick,  then  set  away  to  cool.  Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
thoroughly  beaten  with  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream  will  serve  five  or  six. 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  heavy  cream,  one-fourth  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  paprika.  Beat  eggs  until  very  light, 
add  gradually  while  beating  constantly,  melted  butter,  lemon  juice  and  salt. 
Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens.  Cool,  add 
cream  beaten  until  stiff,  and  the  remaining  ingredients. 

—MRS.  CHARLES  R.  VENABLE. 


MAYONNAISE 

One  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of  pepper.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly  with 
Dover  egg  beater.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  wesson  oil  at  a  time  beating 
thoroughly  with  egg  beater,  until  you  have  used  a  pint.  Season  with  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  (Have  never  had  mayonnaise  made  by  this  recipe  to  go 
back.)  —MRS.  CHARLES  R.  VENABLE. 


QUICK  MAYONNAISE 

One  egg,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  two  cups  of  wesson  oil. 
Place  the  whole  egg  in  a  bowl,  put  in  the  dry  ingredients  and  add 
the  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Beat  these  together  a  few  seconds  with  an 
egg    beater    and    add    a    small    amount    of    wesson    oil.      Beat    until    the 

(     31     ) 


SALEM  BRICK  COMPANY 

"For  Over  a  Third  of  a  Century" 


dressing  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  oil  in  larger  amounts,  until  the  dress- 
ing is  of  the  desired  stiffness.  This  mayonnaise  is  seasoned  very  lightly. 
If  a  more  piquant  dressing  is  preferred  increase  the  seasoning  to  taste. 

—MRS.  J.  T.  WOOD. 

COOKED  DRESSING 

Five  teaspoons  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  one  half  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  liquid.  Cook  to  the  right 
consistency.  MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 

THOUSAND   ISLAND  DRESSING 

Cut  fine  three  sour  gherkin  pickles  and  one  bell  pepper,  add  about  three 
tablespoons  of  Chili  sauce  and  enough  of  Gelfand's  mayonnaise  to  make 
proper  thickness.    Serve  on  heart  of  lettuce.  — MRS.  FOWLER. 


DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  dash  of  paprika  and  celery  salt.  Cook  eggs,  butter 
and  sugar,  then  add  lemon,  paprika  and  celery  salt.  When  cold  add  this  to  a 
quart  of  cream  that  has  been  whipped  real  stiff.  Don't  put  on  fruit  until 
ready  to  serve.  —MRS.  LOU  HANKLA. 


CREAM   DRESSING 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  one 
teaspoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  five  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  dash 
of  red  pepper  or  tobasco.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Let  cool,  beat  in  one  tablespoon  of  plain, 
thick  cream.    When  cold,  stir  in,  lightly,  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff. 


FRENCH   DRESSING 

Mix  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-third  teaspoon  of  salt  in  a  shallow 
dish  and  pour  in  four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil.  Stir  well  and  add  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  beating  the  mixture  continuously.  Serve  at 
once. 

MAYONNAISE  WITH  OLIVE  OIL 

Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Add  very  slowly,  drop  by  drop  at  first,  the  oil; 
then  a  little  faster,  when  it  begins  to  thicken.     When  about  one-half  cup  of 

(     32     ) 


R 


H 


Do   you   know    how   much  nicer   cooking   fat   is   when   it    is 
really  fresh? 

Snowdrift  is  fresh — fresh,  as  you  use  the  word  to  describe  a  new 
laid  egg.  It  is  sweet — what  you  mean  when  you  say  "sweet"  cream 
Many  a  woman  has  told  us  that  she  has  used  shortening  of  one 
kind  or  another  all  her  life  and  never  realized,  until  she  tried 
Snowdrift,   that  fat  could  be  so  sweet  and  fresh 


Snowdrift 


a    rich    creamy    shortening 
or    making    cake,    biscuit    and    pastry    and     for    frying 


i?Mmwmimmmm®mmMmmmmffimmmmmmmmmm 


m 


THE  "JOKER"  MUSIC  ALARM  CLOCK 

This  is  an  Alarm  Clock  and  Music  Box  combined,  and  a  Rattling-Good- 
Time-keeper.     Plays  one  tune  for  about  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

VERY  ELEGANT  APPEARANCE 

The  "Joker"  Musical  Clock  is  one  of  the  prettiest  and  most  Novel  Clocks  pro- 
curable. We  positively  guarantee  every  one  for  twelve  months,  to  be  perfectly 
reliable  and  to  keep  accurate  time.  It  has  a  very  solid  and  handsome  appear- 
ance, being  made  of  Nickle  Silver,  with  Brass  Front.  It  does  not  discolor,  al- 
ways looks  nice  and  bright. 

Instead  of  being  awakened  [and  incidentally,  the  whole  household |  by  a  noisy 
Alarm  Gong,  you  are  effectively  called  out  of  your  slumbers  by  the  sweet 
strains  of  "Home  Sweet  Home"  "Nearer  My  God  To  Thee"  "The  Lion  And 
The  Mouse"  "Blue  Bells  Of  Scotland"  "Last  Rose  Of  Summer,"  or  any  other 
such  tune,  each  clock  plays  one  air,  several  minutes,  or  you  can  set  the  Music- 
going  at  any  time  you  like.     The  tunes  are  very  pretty  indeed. 

If  you  get  this  clock  you  can  have  music  at  your  meal  time,  you  can  always  en- 
tertain your  vistors,  will  tell  you  the  correct  time;  will  call  you  when  required; 
amuse  you  whenever  you  feel  inclined,  and  you  need  never  feel  lonely. 


P 


Price  of  Music  Clock  postpaid  to  any  address  for  $7.50 
Agent  Wanted  in  Every  Town.      Write  Us. 

WOODS  &  COMPANY 

120  WEST  CHURCH  AVENUE 
Postoffice  Box  1 1 1 

ROANOKE,  VIRGINIA 


:  ■mmmmmi         mmmmm 


mmmmmmm^- 


Lowest  Prices  for  Smartest  Styles 

FAMILY  SHOE  STORE 

301  Jefferson  Street,  Corner  Kirk  Avenue  Roanoke,  Va. 

Phone  2766 
SHOES  FOR  THE  FAMILY 


oil  has  been  used,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  so  on,  alternating  oil 
and  lemon  until  the  desired  quantity  has  been  made.  One  pint  of  oil  can  be 
beaten  into  the  two  yolks,  if  a  large  quantity  is  desired,  thinning  with  lemon 
juice.  Or  the  yolk  of  only  one  egg  may  be  used,  and  a  very  little  oil,  with 
less  lemon.  When  finished,  it  should  be  thick  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife. 
Season  to  taste  with  mustard,  salt  and  white  or  red  pepper.  The  eggs  and 
oil  must  be  very  cold,  both  before  and  during  the  making.  In  summer  make 
it  in  a  bowl  over  ice.  If  it  curdles  while  making,  from  being  too  warm,  or 
from  pouring  the  oil  too  fast,  beat  the  yolk  of  another  egg  and  add  this  mix- 
ture very  slowly,  as  at  first,  beating  constantly.  If  desired  for  salads  or 
sandwich  fillings,  beat  the  whites  of  one  or  two  eggs  according  to  the  amount 
of  mayonnaise  and  mix. 


MAYONNAISE   DRESSING 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cream  all  well 
and  add  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and  last  one-half  cupful  of  cream.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick. 


BOILED  SALAD   DRESSING 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  well,  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  one-half 
cup  of  cream,  two  thirds  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-third  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  cornstarch.  Put  butter,  sugar,  mustard,  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Add  vinegar. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     33     ) 


Take  a  Kodak  With  You;    Send  Your  Films  to  Us 

We  have  a  splendid  Plant,  25 
Employees,  25  Years'  Experi- 
ence. Films  left  at  10  A.  M. 
ready  at  5  P.  M.  A  Special  4- 
Hour  service  if  you  want  it. 

Roanoke  Photo  Finishing 

Company 

105^2  West  Campbell  Ave. 


PIES 


"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

BROWN  SUGAR  PIES 

4  eggs,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  *4  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.    Do  not  beat  eggs  separately.     Beat  just  enough  to  mix. 

—MRS.  T.  B.  GRIGGS. 

PUMPKIN   PIE 

1  can  pumpkin  or  like  amount  fresh,  3  tablespoons  flour,  iy2  cups  sugar, 
4  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  pinch  ginger,  pinch  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  1  tea- 
spoon Sauer's  vanilla.    Pour  mixture  into  pie  dish  lined  with  a  rich  pastry. 

—MRS.  CHARLES  E.  WHIELDON. 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

One  cup  of  grated  pineapple,  three  cups  of  boiling  water,  four  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  four  cups  of  sugar,  four  table- 
spoons of  butter  creamed  with  sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  two  small  lemons. 
Mix  the  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  water  and  pour  the  boiling  water  on  it. 
then  stir  in  the  pineapple  and  a  part  of  the  sugar  and  let  it  get  cold  before 
adding  the  other  ingredients.  Add  the  whites  of  eggs  last  and  bake  in  a  rich 
crust  without  a  top  crust.  —MRS.  J.  C.  GREENWOOD. 


CARAMEL  PIES 

4  eggs  (leave  out  3  whites),  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  4 
tablespoonsful  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  cook  until  thick  then  spread  on 
baked  crusts.  Use  whites  for  meringue.  Spread  on  top  and  brown.  This 
makes  3  pies.  —MRS.  ASHBY  SCOTT. 


LEMON   PIE 

%  cup  sugar,  %  cups  boiling  water,  2  tablespoonsful  cornstarch,  y2 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  egg  yolks,  3  tablespoonsful  of  lemon  juice,  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar,  add  water,  stiring  constantly; 
cook  2  minutes.  Add  egg  yolks,  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  rind.  Cover  with 
meringue.  —MRS.  J.  T.  WOOD. 

(     34     ) 


TRADE  WITH  JAMISON 

and  Bank  the  Difference 

56  Stores  for  Your  Convenience 

A  STORE  IN  EVERY  NEIGHBORHOOD 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  light  with  2  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  2  cups  milk, 
1  cup  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  all  together  in  double  boiler 
until  thick,  add  vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  3  tablespoonsful  of  sugar 
for  meringue  and  brown  in  oven.    This  makes  2  pies. — MISS  MARY  COOPER. 


CREAM    PIE 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  two  teaspoons  cornstarch,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon fresh  butter,  one  cup  sweet  cream,  put  on  and  let  come  to  boil.  Stir 
in  other  mixture  after  it  has  been  well  beaten.  Bake  a  crust  and  fill  mixture 
in.    Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  and  use  for  meringue,  brown  in  oven. 

—MRS.  J.  T.  STRICKLAND. 


CITS   PIES 

The  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  cream.  Bake  in  pastry  until  well  set.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of 
the  seven  whites.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.    This  makes  two  pies. 

—MRS.  J.  T.  STRICKLAND. 


JEFF  DAVIS  PIE 

Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-kalf  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
new  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cloves. 

—MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


COCOANUT  PIE 

One  pint  milk,  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  flour  with  sugar,  and  cocoanut 
and  cook  slowly  in  the  pastry  then  add  beaten  whites  and  brown. 

—MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Melt  one  small  cake  of  chocolate,  four  egg  yolks,  a  good  size  piece  of 
butter,  two-thirds  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  two  slight  cups  of  sugar,  two  small 
cups  of  water,  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  pastry  and  filling  separate.  This  makes 
two  pies.     Cover  with  meringue.  — MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 

(     35     ) 


D.    H.   Barger  G.  F.  Holsinger  T.  P.  Bell  R.  L.  Morgan 

Pres.  1st  V.  P.  2nd  V.  P.  Sec'y  and  Treas, 


VIRGINIA  FARM  BUREAU  FEDERATION 

Roanoke,  Virginia 

Member  American  Farm  Bureau  Federation 


LEMON   PIE 

Mix  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  sugar  with  two-thirds  cups  flour,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  two  small  cups  of  water.  Cook  until  thick,  put  in  cooked  pastry,  add 
meringue  and  let  brown.  — MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 


PLAIN   PASTRY 

Sift  together  two  or  three  times,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  pastry 
flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
With  the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  a  knife  work  in  one-third  of  a  cup  of  short- 
ening, when  this  is  evenly  mixed  through  the  flour,  gradually  mix  to  a 
dough,  using  a  case  knife  with  cold  water;  about  one-fourth  cup  will  be 
needed.  Work  the  dough  with  the  knife  until  all  the  particles  of  dough  are 
in  a  compact  mass  and  the  bowl  is  clean,  then  dredge  the  board  with  flour 
and  lift  the  dough  onto  it.  Turn  it  with  the  knife  until  floured  a  little,  then 
pat  and  roll  out  into  a  rectangular  sheet.  Roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  cover 
closely  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  and  let  stand  for  an  hour  or  longer. 


RECIPE   FOR   MERINGUE 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually,  one  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sifted  sugar  for  each  egg,  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  mixture  is 
stiff  and  glossy.  Spread  this  over  the  partially  cooled  pie  or  pudding  and 
place  in  a  very  cool  oven  to  rise  and  dry  out  before  coloring  a  delicate  brown. 
If  baked  quickly  the  meringue  will  be  tough.  When  wanted  for  picnics  it  is 
well  to  add  more  sugar  to  the  meringue  making  it  more  on t  the  order  of  an 
icing.    Flavor  if  liked. 

BUTTER    SCOTCH    PIE 

One  cup  of  sugar  (brown  sugar  preferred),  lump  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cook  to  stiff  paste,  bake  in  one  crust.  When  done 
spread  with  meringue  made  of  whites  of  two  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  of 
sugar. 

LEMON    PIE 

One  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  reserving  whites  of 
two  for  frosting.  Cook  on  stove  and  pour  into  baked  crust,  put  on  frosting 
and  brown. 

(     36     ) 


SKILL 

CRAFT  CLOTHES 

SHOP 

From  Factory 

to  You — Why  Pay  More  When  You  Can  Buy 

For  Less— Wear  Skill  Craft  Clothes  and 

Save  the  Difference 

JELLY    CUSTARD    PIE 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  jelly,  tart  preferred,  one  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
cream.    Bake  in  pastry.    This  makes  one  large  or  two  small  pies. 


CARAMEL   PIE 

Stir  together  two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one  of  white  with  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  small  lump  of  butter;  put  in  double  boiler  and  let 
boil.  Add  to  this  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  five  tablespoons 
of  sifted  flour  and  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk;  cook  until  thick.  When  done, 
set  aside  to  cool;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Make  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs. 
This  amount  makes  two  pies. 

CREAM    PIE 

One  small  cup  of  sugar,  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  butter,  lay  on  sugar 
and  pour  on  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water,  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and 
beat  to  a  cream,  add  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  one  and  three-fourths  cups 
sifted  flour,  one  rounding  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  well  and  put  in 
a  well-greased  and  floured  round  layer-cake  pan.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Filling:  One  cup  of  milk,  one  even  tablespoon  of  sugar,  let  come  to  a 
boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Rub  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  beat  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  until  creamy 
and  thick,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Add  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  let  cool.  Split  the  cake  with  a  warm  knife,  spread 
cream  on  lower  part  and  replace  the  top.  Beat  the  two  whites  of  eggs  with 
two  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar,  spread  on  top,  and  return  to  oven  to  brown 
slightly.    When  cold  place  small  cubes  of  stiff,  clear  jelly  on  the  meringue. 


APPLE    CUSTARD    PIE 

Two  eggs,  one  teacup  of  cooked  apples,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
one  cup  cream.    Flavor  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  rich  crust  without  top. 


LEMON    PIE 

Two  lemons,  one-half  pint  sugar,  mixed  with  lemon,  four  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  lemon  and  sugar,  and  add  nearly  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Dissolve  two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  this  to  the  mixture, 
and  cook  until  thick.  After  taking  from  the  fire,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  add  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar;  put  over  the  top  of  pies,  and  brown. 

(     37     1 


We  Buy  to  Serve  You  Well 

S.flHEIRONIMUSS 

"Roanoke's  Leading  Department  Store" 


LEMON    CREAM     PIE 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  two  teaspoons  boiling  water.  Stir  well  and  put  in  double  boiler.  Let 
simmer  until  thick,  stirring  continually.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  with 
two  tablespoons  sugar.  Remove  filling  from  the  stove,  and  beat  in  whites, 
then  put  this  in  pastry,  which  has  been  previously  baked,  and  let  stand  in 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

MOLASSES   PIE 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  lump  of  butter  size 
of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Beat 
well  and  spread  on  thin,  rich  crust. 

LEMON    PIE 

One  lemon,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  water,  one  tea- 
spoon of  butter.  Cream  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  water  and  the  butter  melted.  Bake  in  pastry  in  a  slow  oven. 
Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  meringue.    This  makes  one  pie. 

SWEET   POTATO    PIE 

Three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  pint  of  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  cream,  one-half  cup  butter.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  a 
little  nutmeg.     This  amount  makes  two  pies.     Bake  in  crust  as  custard  pies. 


CHESS    PIE 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  of  butter,  three  tablespoons 
of  cream.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Separate  the  eggs.  To  the  beaten  yolks  add 
the  sugar,  melted  butter,  cream  and  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  one  crust, 
using  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  the  meringue. 

LEMON  TARTS 

Take  the  scraps  left  from  pie  crust,  roll  out  and  cut  into  rounds  and 
hearts;  half  of  the  number  should  be  pierced  with  holes  made  by  using  the 
small  end  of  a  funnel  or  a  thimble.  Bake  a  delicate  brown,  and  when  cool 
put  lemon  cheese  on  plain  crust,  lay  one  of  the  pierced  tops  on  each  and 
press  together. 

RAISIN    PIE 

Six  eggs,  one-half  cup  flour,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of 
butter,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  three  cups  sugar. 
Separate  the  eggs,  beat  sugar  and  the  yolks  well  together,  add  milk  and 
flour,  cream  butter,  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Chop  raisins  fine,  flour  lightly, 
and  add  last.  Bake  in  any  good  crust,  and  when  done  beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  spread  on  pies,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 
This  will  make  three  pies. 

(     38     ) 


Use  Carbol  Quin  Lotion  for  Chapped  Hands  and  Rough  Skin 

PRICE  25c 

JOHNSON  AND  JOHNSON 

DRUGGISTS 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

SAUCES 

"The  daintiest  last  to  make  the  end  most  sweet." 


COTTAGE  PUDDING 

One-third  cup  butter  creamed  with  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  rounded,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  lemon. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins.  Sauce:  One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  flour,  level,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon,  boil  five  minutes.  —MRS.  JAMES  FRANTZ. 


PRUNE  WHIP 

Soak  one-half  pound  prunes  over  night,  in  the  morning  stew  until  tender, 
rub  through  a  sieve,  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  beat  whites  of  four  eggs  until 
stiff,  add  sifted  prunes,  beat  well  together,  put  in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake 
20  minutes — Serve  with  whipped  cream.     Delicious. 

—MRS.  R.  COSBY  NEWTON. 


PEACH    PUDDING 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  water,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Line  pan  with  a  can  of  peaches  that  have 
been  drained.  Put  small  lump  of  butter  in  pan,  set  in  oven  long  enough  to 
melt  butter  before  putting  in  the  peaches,  bake  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes 
and  serve  either  hot  or  cold  using  whipped  or  plain  cream. 

—MRS.  R.  G.  DALBY. 


CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING 

Two  cups  stale  bread  crumbs,  four  cups  scalded  milk,  two  squares  of 
chocolate,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Soak  bread  in  milk,  melt  chocolate  in  sauce  pan  placed 
over  hot  water,  add  one-half  of  sugar  and  enough  milk  to  pour,  add  to 
mixture  with  remaining  sugar,  salt,  vanilla  and  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Turn 
into  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  one  hour.  Serve  with  hard  or  cream 
sauce.  — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

One-half  pound  suet,  one-half  pound  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound  cur- 
rants, one-half  pound  citron,  a  one-pound  loaf  stale  bakers'  bread,  one  cup- 

(     39     ) 


VINTON  MILLING  COMPANY 

Manufacturers  of  the  following  High  Grade  Flour  and  Meal 
"LEADER/'  "VIRGINIA  BELLE,"  Dainty  Maid  (Self  Ris- 
ing), Sunlight  (Self  Rising),  White  House  Corn 
Meal,  Graham  Flour 
Vinton,  Virginia  Telephone  Vinton  3 


ful  pastry  flour,  one-half  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  tablespoonful 
ground  cloves,  one-half  tablespoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  cupful  milk,  four  eggs,  one-fourth  cupful  cider,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  lemon  juice. 

Mix  together  in  a  large  bowl  the  suet  chopped  fine,  the  seeded  raisins 
chopped,  the  currants,  the  citron  thinly  sliced,  the  brown  sugar,  the  inside 
of  the  loaf  of  bread  crumbed  fine,  and  the  pastry  flour  sifted  with  the  spices, 
soda  and  salt.  Add  the  milk,  eggs  well-beaten,  cider  and  lemon  juice.  Mix 
well  together  and  pour  into  a  well-greased  pudding  mold  with  tight  cover. 
Steam  five  hours.     Serve  with  plum  pudding  sauce.      — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 


GRATED    SWEET    POTATO    PUDDING 

Three  large  sweet  potatoes,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  milk,  one  egg, 
one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg.  Pare  and 
grate  the  potatoes  or  put  them  through  the  food  chopper.  Add  the  sugar 
and  milk  and  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  in  the  egg  and  add  the  butter  and 
nutmeg.  Turn  into  a  well-greased  and  shallow  pudding  pan  and  bake  until 
brown.    If  desired  the  top  may  be  spread  with  meringue. — MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 

BROWN    PUDDING 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  new  milk,  four  level  tablespoons  of  sifted 
flour,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar  browned  slightly  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put 
milk  and  sugar  in  porcelain  vessel  over  fire.  Moisten  flour  with  four  spoons 
of  the  milk  reserved  for  the  purpose,  beat  yolks  of  eggs  into  the  flour  and 
milk,  then  stir  all  into  hot  milk  and  cook  until  the  consistency  of  cream. 
Pour  into  pudding  mold,  make  meringue  of  the  four  whites  and  three- 
fourths  cup  of  white  sugar.  Put  on  pudding  and  brown  slowly  in  the  oven. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING 

Put  on  stove  in  double  boiler  one  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Shave  into  this 
one-half  cake  of  chocolate;  add  to  this  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  corn  starch  and  enough  milk  to 
keep  it  from  being  lumpy;  cook  until  thick,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Make  a 
meringue  of  whites  beaten  with  sugar  and  serve  with  good  cream. 


ANGEL    PUDDING 

The  whites  of  ten  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  nut  meats,  one  pound  of  dates, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  lemon.  Beat  eggs  very  light, 
then  fold  in  the  sugar,  nuts,  dates  chopped  fine,  and  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon.  Turn  into  a  well-greased  baking  dish  and  bake  to  a 
golden  brown.     Serve  immediately  with  whipped  cream  or  sauce. 

(     40     ) 


SPIGEL'S 

Women's  Specialty  Shop 

Roanoke's  Largest  Ready  to  Wear  and 

Millinery 

Store 

Visit  our  Beauty  Parlor                                  19 

Campbell 

Avenue 

JELLY    ROLL 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  add  sugar, 
and  having  mixed  the  salt  and  powder  with  the  flour,  dust  that  in  and  beat 
up  light.  Bake  in  shallow  square  pan,  when  done  turn  out,  spread  jelly  on 
and  roll  immediately. 

WOODFORD    PUDDING 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  jam  or  preserves  (blackberry  jam  preferred),  one  level  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  three  teaspoons  of  sour  milk.  Mix  well  together  and 
bake  slowly.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce:  One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  one  egg.  Flavor  to  taste.  Milk  can  be  substituted  for 
cream,  but  in  case  it  is  add  a  little  butter. 


CHOCOLATE    PUDDING 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  two  cups  of  flour. 
(Should  be  about  the  stiffness  of  pound  cake  and  may  require  a  little  more 
flour,  depending  on  the  brand  of  flour  used.)  Dissolve  one-half  cake  of 
chocolate,  mix  all  together,  pour  into  a  mold  and  steam  for  two  hours. 

Sauce  for  Chocolate  Pudding:  Beat  together  one  whole  egg  and  two 
yolks,  adding  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  half  cup  of  any 
fruit  juice.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  creamy.  When 
cold  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  half  cup  of  whipped  cream  and 
set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 


HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter,  one  cup  of  berries.  Pour  in  bag,  do  not  tie  tightly 
so  as  to  allow  for  swelling.    Boil  one  hour.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

Lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  melt  in  teacup,  break  in  one  egg  and 
finish  filling  cup  with  sweet  milk.  Then  in  a  pan  put  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  put  in  contents  of  teacup  and 
stir  all  together,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  two  round  layer-cake  pans. 
Put  together  with  sweetened  strawberries  and  pile  berries  on  top.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  This  makes  two  thin  layers;  double  the  quantity  if 
desired  thicker. 

(     41     ) 


Telephone  455 

WOOD  AND  WAID 

REAL  ESTATE,  RENTALS,  FIRE  INSURANCE 

No.  4  South  Jefferson  Street 

Vernon  M.  Wood  Homer  L.  Waid 

Five  Hustling  Salesmen  at  Your  Service 


ORANGE    SHORTCAKE 

Cream  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  cup  of  milk;  two  cups  of  sifted  flour  and 
large  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  which  have  been  sifted  together  three  times. 
Bake  in  stove  pan  in  quick  oven.  When  nearly  cold  split  with  warm  knife 
and  put  a  thick  layer  of  two  chopped  oranges  well  sweetened  between; 
cover  top  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  orange  juice. 
Use  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  part  with  oranges  and  part  in  cream.  Serves 
six  persons. 


INDIVIDUAL  SHORTCAKES  WITH   MARSH  MALLOW  SAUCE 

Sift  together  three  times,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sifted  pastry  flour,  half 
a  cup  of  corn  starch,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  five  level  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  With  the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  short- 
ening, then  add  a  little  at  a  time,  nearly  one  cup  of  milk,  and  mix  to  a  dough. 
Turn  onto  a  floured  board,  knead  slightly,  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  with  a  round  cutter  about  three  inches  in  diameter  (the  cover 
of  a  one  pound  baking  powder  can  will  answer  the  purpose).  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Split  the  cakes  with  a  warm  knife  and  butter 
the  halves.  Set  the  lower  half  on  an  individual  plate,  cover  with  sweetened 
strawberries  or  red  raspberries.  Set  the  upper  half  in  place  and  surround 
the  whole  with  sweetened  berries.  Put  hot  marshmallow  sauce  of  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     42     ) 


THE  HOME  OF  PURE  ICE  CREAM  AND  CANDIES 

ECONOMYS  BROS.  AND  GO. 

24  West  Campbell  Avenue 


SAUCES 


CREAMY  SHERRY  SAUCE 

Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar.  Add 
two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  then  add  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Flavor  with  sherry  wine. 


LEMON   SAUCE 

Sift  together  one  cupful  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  slowly  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water  while  beating  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice; 
then  strain.    A  little  nutmeg  may  be  added. 


FOAMY  SAUCE 

One  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream 
Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Place  bowl  in  vessel  of  hot  water  and  add  the 
boiling  water  by  spoonfuls,  stirring  well,  when  sugar  is  dissolved  and  looks 
like  a  rich  yellow  syrup  put  in  a  bowl  and  just  before  it  goes  to  the  table 
place  the  stiffly  beaten  white  on  top  and  stir  well  into  the  sauce. 


WINE   SAUCE 

Cream  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
adding  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  When  smooth  and  light  beat  in  one-fourth 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  turn  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  scalding  hot. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  in  one  wineglass  full  (about  one-half  cupful) 
of  wine  and  serve  at  once. 


PLAIN   SAUCE 

One  pint  of  boiling  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  flour  and  butter  together  and  stir  into  the  water, 
then  add  sugar  and  salt  and  stir  until  creamy.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
flavoring. 

(     43     ) 


GLASGOW  &  BOWLING 

REALTORS 

H.  P.  Glasgow  W.  P.  Bowling 

213  Jefferson  Street 

Fire  Insurance  Written  in  Best  Companies 


VANILLA  SAUCE 

Mix  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  even  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch, 
and  add  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water; 
boil  three  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt. 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Cream  one-fourth  cup  (scant)  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  light  brown  sugar 
in  a  small  bowl.  Shave  into  this  one  square  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  and 
set  over  hot  water,  stirring  into  the  mixture  gradually  four  tablespoons  of 
hot  water.  When  the  chocolate  is  melted  and  the  sauce  smooth  and  creamy, 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  This  sauce  is  nice  to  serve  with 
cottage  pudding  or  other  baked  or  steamed  puddings. 

ORANGE  SAUCE 

The  juice  of  one  orange,  grated  rind  of  one-fourth  orange,  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  butter,  three 
level  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.  Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  thoroughly. 
Add  to  the  orange  juice  enough  boiling  water  to  make  altogether  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  liquid.  Pour  this  into  the  sugar  and  corn  starch  and  stir 
constantly  over  the  fire  until  it  boils  and  clears.  Add  the  butter  and  grated 
rind.    Stir  until  melted  and  serve  hot. 


CARAMEL  SAUCE 

Cream  one-fourth  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  until  light.  Add 
a  tiny  pinch  of  powdered  mace,  two  teaspoons  of  caramel  syrup  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  just  a 
moment  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve.  This  sauce  must  not  boil  but  must  be 
served  hot  as  soon  as  made. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     44     ) 


PIANOS  PLAYERS  VICTROLAS 

HOBBIE  BROTHERS 

Since  "81" 
9  Church  Avenue,  West  Phone  56 


PICKLES  AND  SAUCES 

"Peter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers." 
SWEET  PICKLE  WATERMELON   RIND 

Four  quarts  pared  and  cut  rind,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  cups  pure 
cider  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  four  tablespoonfuls  broken  cin- 
namon bark,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  root  or 
sliced  lemon.  Pare  the  rind  and  cut  about  one  inch  wide  and  two  inches 
long.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  half  the  rind 
and  boil  slowly  until  it  is  tender  and  clear.  Remove  this  and  pack  in  steri- 
lized jars,  then  put  the  other  half  of  rind  into  the  remaining  syrup  and 
proceed  as  before.    There  will  be  enough  syrup  for  all  the  rind. 

—MRS.  W.   H.   DUNCAN. 

WINTER    CHILLI    SAUCE 

Two  cans  of  tomatoes,  four  onions  chopped  fine,  three  good  teaspoons  of 
salt,  two  cups  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  five  tablespoons  of 
sugar.     Boil  about  two  hours  and  seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars. 

—MRS.  C.  S.  JOHNSON. 

PEPPER  RELISH 

Twelve  green  sweet  peppers,  twelve  red  sweet  peppers,  twelve  or  six 
onions,  good  size.  Grind  up  and  scald  for  ten  minutes,  scald  again  and  let 
boil  up,  drain  dry.  Then  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two 
tablespoons  of  salt,  one  hot  red  pepper,  one  half  tablespoon  of  mustard  seed. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  seal.  — MRS.  J.  H.  PATTISON. 

MUSTARD   RELISH 

One  quart  lima  beans,  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  cut,  one  quart  small 
cucumber  pickle,  cut,  one  quart  carrots,  diced,  one  quart  small  onions,  cut, 
one  head  of  cauliflower  or  cabbage,  six  green  sweet  peppers,  cut,  six  red 
sweet  peppers,  cut,  one  bunch  of  celery,  cut  fine.  Boil  beans,  carrots  and 
onions  until  they  are  tender,  cook  each  separately,  drain  all  water  off,  put 
cabbage,  tomatoes,  peppers  and  celery  in  hot  brine  not  too  salty  and  let 
stand  while  the  other  is  being  cooked,  drain  well.  Two  quarts  vinegar,  two 
and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  flour,  six  tablespoon- 
fuls of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  turmeric.  Mix  all  ingredients  in  the  cold 
vinegar  and  cook  until  creamy  then  put  in  all  your  vegetables  and  cook  ten 
minutes  and  put  in  cans,  use  prepared  mustard  and  spices  according  to 
taste.  —MRS.  W.  L.  SCOTT. 

(     45     ) 


MUNDY  BROS.  LIVERY  AND  TRANSFER  CO.,  Inc. 

MOVE  ANYBODY— HAUL  ANYTHING 

30  Wells  Avenue,  N.  E. 
Box  503  Phones  31  and  32 


CUCUMBER  CATSUP 

Grate  or  grind  in  a  meat  chopper  three  large,  but  not  old  cucumbers  and 
one  onion  together.  Some  of  the  juice  may  be  strained  off  to  make  it  more 
concentrated.  To  the  grated  pulp  add  one  tablespoon  of  salt  and  one  of 
black  pepper,  ground.  Put  the  whole  into  a  half  pint  of  strong  vinegar.  You 
may  add  a  little  horse  radish.    Cork  tightly.        —MRS.  W.  N.  SAUNDERS. 


PEPPER  RELISH 

Twelve  green  peppers,  twelve  red  peppers,  twelve  large  onions,  two 
tablespoons  of  salt,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  of  celery  seed,  one  and  one  half  tablespoons  white  mustard. 
Remove  seed  from  peppers,  wash  and  run  through  food  chopper,  add  salt 
and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  drain  thoroughly,  using 
colander.  Then  add  sugar  and  vinegar  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  seed 
and  seal  in  jars.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


WATERMELON    RIND    PICKLE 

Cut  in  small  pieces  and  weigh.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  salt  water, 
twenty  minutes  in  alum  water,  twenty  minutes  in  clear  water,  forty  minutes 
in  thin  syrup.  To  ten  pounds  of  rind  make  syrup  of  one  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  tender.  Season  with  ginger,  cloves  and 
cinnamon.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


WATERMELON    RIND   PRESERVES 

Eight  pounds  of  rind,  after  green  has  been  removed,  run  through  coarse 
meat  chopper.  Squeeze  all  the  water  out  with  your  hand.  Boil  six  pounds 
of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water  to  a  syrup,  add  rind  and  two  cans  of  grated 
pineapple.     Boil  till  thick  and  can.  —MRS.  W.  A.   CARPENTER. 

TARTAR  SAUCE 

Three  sour  pickles,  two  onions,  two  green  peppers  and  one  small  head  of 
celery.  Grind  all  ingredients  through  food  chopper  until  very  fine  and 
mix  with  stiff  mayonnaise.  —MRS.  C.  M.  KIRKBRIDE. 

TOMATO  RELISH 

One  peck  of  ripe  firm  tomatoes,  after  they  are  chopped  fine,  four  large 
onions,  four  large  sweet  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  two  cups  of  salt.  Put 
in  bag  and  hang  up  to  drain  twenty-four  hours.  Add  three  quarts  of  good 
vinegar,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  celery  seed  and  one  tablespoon 

(     46     ) 


Electrical  Merchandising  Corp. 

128  West  Campbell  Avenue,  Phone  4808 
"If  it's  Electrical— We  have  It" 


of  white  mustard  seed.     Add  a  little  ground  black  pepper.     Put  in  cans  and 
seal  without  cooking.    Fix  late  in  Fall  and  keep  in  cool  place. 

—MRS.  ASHBY  SCOTT. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Cut  tomatoes,  cook  soft  and  run  through  seive  to  one  and  one-half  gallons 
of  juice.  Add  three  pints  of  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard, 
three  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  one  small  pod  of  red  pepper,  five  spoons 
of  salt,  one  spoon  of  cloves,  one  spoon  of  cinnamon,  six  large  onions  grated, 
one-half  gallon  of  cooked  apples,  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Boil  all  together  four 
hours.     Seal  tightly.  —MRS.  ASHBY  SCOTT. 

QUINCE   HONEY 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  two  large  quinces  grated,  boil  until 
thick  and  seal. 

VINEGAR   PEACHES 

One  peck  of  peaches,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  vinegar. 
Peel  peaches  and  put  on  fire  in  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  cook.  Let 
cook  until  you  can  pierce  with  a  straw.  Take  out  and  put  on  a  dish  to  drain. 
To  the  water  add  sugar  and  vinegar  and  let  boil  until  thick  as  syrup.  Put  in 
the  peaches  and  heat  thoroughly.    Then  seal.  — ANNA  COOPER. 

CUCUMBER   RELISH 

One  peck  of  cucumbers,  peel,  remove  seed  and  chop  fine,  three  onions 
chopped  fine,  four  bunches  of  celery  chopped  fine,  five  cents  worth  of  white 
mustard  seed,  one-half  a  tea  cup  of  salt  mixed  with  cucumbers,  onions  and 
celery.  Let  stand  over  night.  Drain  salt  water  off.  Dissolve  five  cups  of 
white  sugar  in  one  quart  of  white  vinegar,  stir  in  mustard  seed.  Add  to  the 
above  and  can.  |*  —ANNA  COOPER. 

CUCUMBER   PICKLE 

Cut  into  eights  one-half  dozen  sour  pickle  (not  dill),  place  in  deep  jar, 
slice  one  large  onion  over  this  and  one  tablespoonful  of  white  mustard  seed. 
Boil  together  for  a  few  minutes  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar  and 
one  cup  of  water,  pour  this  hot  over  the  pickle  and  cover.  This  will  be 
ready  for  use  the  next  day.  —MISS  MARY  COOPER. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Twelve  large  tomatoes,  three  green  peppers,  two  onions,  two  teaspoons- 
ful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  three 
cups  of  vinegar.  Peel  tomatoes  and  onions  and  chop  fine  and  boil  one  and 
one-half  hours.  —MRS.  H.  D.  SMALLWOOD. 

(      47     ) 


MADDOX  &  JENNINGS  BAKERY,  Inc. 

WHOLESALE  BAKERS 

Phone  1588 

Home  of  "TOP-N-OCH"  and  "PAN  DANDY"  BREAD 

402  Second  Avenue,  Northwest 


DANISH   PICKLE 

Twelve  medium  cucumbers,  six  small  onions,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoon of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  turmeric.  Slice  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  stand  one  hour, 
drain  ten  minutes,  no  longer.  Boil  all  together  seven  minutes,  put  in  a  jar 
and  seal.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Put  fresh  cucumbers  in  brine  for  six  weeks.  Remove  from  brine  and 
slice  in  one-half  inch  slices.  (Cucumbers  should  be  about  one  to  one  and 
one-half  inches  thick  in  diameter).  Soak  in  clear  water  until  all  salt  is 
out,  changing  the  water  several  times.  Make  a  strong  alum  water  and  scald 
cucumbers  in  this  in  a  brass  kettle,  until  green  and  brittle,  requiring  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty-five  minutes.  Soak  in  clear  water  until  all  the  alum 
has  soaked  out,  requiring  two  or  three  days.  Now  make  a  heavy  syrup  three 
or  four  cups  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  pour  over  cucumbers. 
Bring  syrup  to  a  boil  each  morning  for  three  or  four  days  and  pour  over 
cucumbers  each  day  adding  a  little  more  sugar  and  vinegar  if  it  has  weak- 
ened. The  last  day  add  extracts  of  lemon,  oil  of  cloves  and  oil  of  cinnamon. 
Heat  cucumbers  in  the  syrup  this  time.  Put  in  jars  and  seal.  If  spices  are 
used  for  flavoring  they  should  be  tied  in  cloth  or  put  in  vinegar  first  day. 

—MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


SOUR  CUCUMBER   PICKLE 

These  do  not  require  as  long  soaking  as  sweet  pickle.  Leave  whole  and 
boil  in  alum  water  in  brass  kettle.  Soak  in  clear  water.  Put  in  vinegar, 
seasoning  to  taste  and  heat  only  once  and  seal.  Allow  about  one  cup  of 
sugar  to  one-half  gallon  jar  of  cucumbers.  If  fresh  cucumbers  soak  over 
night  in  salt  water,  then  pickle.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 

CORN  SALAD 

Twenty  ears  of  corn,  one  head  of  cabbage,  eight  small  onions,  six  pep- 
pers, three  red  and  three  green.  Grind  all  but  corn,  drain  one  hour,  then 
add  three  cups  of  vinegar,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  celery 
seed,  one  tablespoon  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  turmeric. 
Boil  all  twenty  minutes  seal  while  hot  in  jars.  — MRS.  BENDER. 

—  MEMO  — 


ANDREWS 

BROTHERS 

INSURANCE— All  Kinds— Anywhere 

411  Shenandoah  Life  Building 

Phone  705 

CAKES 


'With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 

Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 

Success  will  be  complete." 


SPICE  CAKE 


One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  and  three- 
fourths  cup  swansdown  flour,  one-half  cup  nuts,  one-half  cup  raisins.  Mix 
and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  egg,  milk,  dry  ingred- 
ients, nuts  and  raisins.     Bake  in  moderate  oven.  — MRS.  HAGENBACH. 

ROYAL  TROPICAROMA  CAKE 

Cream  one-half  cup  shortening,  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  sugar  and 
two  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well  and  add  (sifted  together)  two  and  one-half  cups 
of  swansdown  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  and  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  alternately 
with  one  cup  milk.  Bake  two-thirds  of  this  batter  in  two  greased  layer  tins, 
and  to  remaining  third  add  1  tablespoon  cocoa  which  has  been  mixed  with 
one  tablespoon  boiling  water.  Use  this  for  middle  layer.  Bake  layers  in  hot 
oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

For  Filling  and  Icing 

Cream  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  cups  confectioner's  sugar  and  one 
tablespoon  cocoa  very  slowly,  beating  until  light  and  fluffy,  add  one  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  three  tablespoons  strong  coffee  slowly  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
making  soft  enough  to  spread.  — MRS.  C.  B.  MITCHELL. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  slices  of  pineapple.  Put 
butter  in  an  iron  frying  pan,  add  sugar  and  let  melt.  When  bubbling  up  place 
in  frying  pan  a  layer  of  pineapple  slices — about  seven.  Pour  over  this  the 
following  batter:  three  eggs  beaten  separately  and  then  combined,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  swansdown 
pastry  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
pinch  of  salt.  Put  into  hot  oven  five  minutes,  turn  gas  low  and  finish  baking 
in  moderate  oven.     Turn  out  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

—MRS.  M.  C.  BURNS. 

WALNUT  MAPLE  CAKE 

One-third  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-third  cups  swansdown  flour, 
one  teaspoon  maple  flavor,  one  cup  chopped  diamond  walnut  meats,  one  cup 

(     49     ) 


This  Book  Compiled  by 

CRAIG  ADVERTISING  AGENCY 

38  West  Church  Avenue,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Then 
add  flour  sifted  twice,  putting  baking  powder  in  second  sifter.  Add  flavor, 
salt  and  walnuts.  Bake  in  pan  forty-five  minutes.  Cover  with  white  icing, 
sprinkle  sides  with  chopped  walnut  meats.  Put  a  row  of  halves  around  the 
edge.  —MRS.  M.  C.  BURNS. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  eggs  (whites 
only),  one  cup  sour  milk,  three  cups  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  three-fourths  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 

—MRS.  T.  B.  GRIGGS.. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  swansdown  flour, 
three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  milk,  five  eggs  with  two  whites 
left  out.  Bake  in  layers. 

Filling 
Make  a  boiled  icing  with  two  cups  of  sugar  and  two  egg  whites.     Stir 
in  one  grated  cocoanut  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Chop 
one  package  of  dates  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  the  layers. 

—MRS.  ARTHUR  W.  GROVE. 


SOFT  MOLASSES  CAKES 

One  egg,  one  full  cup  of  sugar,  one  full  cup  of  molasses,  one  full  cup  of 
lard  and  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  boiling  water  with  one  tablespoon  of 
soda,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  swansdown 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter. 

—MRS.  J.  N.  WELLS. 


CARAMEL  CAKE 

One  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  swansdown  flour,  one  cup 
butter,  four  eggs,  two  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon 
Sauer's  vanilla.  Cream  butter,  add  half  the  sugar,  beat  well,  beat  yolks  of 
eggs  with  remaining  sugar  and  add  to  mixture,  then  add  swansdown  flour 
sifted  with  baking  powder  and  milk  alternately,  beat  well,  flavor  and  stir  in 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  bake  in  moderate  oven,  cover  with  caramel 
icing. 

Caramel  Icing 
Three  cups  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  cream  or  milk,  butter  size  of 
an  egg.    Cook  until  forms  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.    Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  beat  until  the  right  consistency  to  spread  on  cake. 

—MRS.  EDWARD  REED. 

(     50     ) 


THE  SANITARY  BARBER 

THE  IDEAL  BARBER 

SHOP 

SHOP 

6  E.  Campbell  Ave. 

9  W.  Salem  Ave. 

9  Barbers,  no  long  waits 

8  Barbers 

Phone  3368-J 

Phone  1412-J 

POUND  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  buUtr  and  sugar 
creamed  together  well,  two  cups  swansdown  cake  flour,  six  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder.  After  mixing  well, 
then  beat  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes  and  add  three-fourths  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing. —MRS.  W.  H.  DUNCAN. 

CAKE  FILLINGS 
"A  Wilderness  of  Sweets" 

Lemon  Filling:  One  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  juice 
of  two  lemons.     Beat  all  together  and  cook  until  consistency  of  jelly. 

—MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 

Orange  Filling:  One  tablespoon  cream,  one  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  orange  extract.  Pulp  and  rind 
of  one  orange.  To  the  cream  add  sugar  slowly,  add  orange  pulp,  rind,  ex- 
tract and  melted  butter.     Beat  until  smooth  and  spread  on  cake. 

—MISS  MARY  COOPER. 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

One  scant  cup  of  sugar,  six  tablespoonsful  or  shortening,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  one-half  cup  chopped  raisins,  one-half 
cup  of  tart  apple  sauce,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  (scant),  yellows  of  two  eggs. 
Stir  sugar  and  shortening  together  until  creamy.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  spices 
together.  Flour  the  raisins  with  a  little  of  the  flour,  dissolve  the  soda  in  one 
tablespoon  of  warm  water.  Add  the  apple  sauce  and  beat  into  the  creamed 
sugar  and  shortening  alternately  with  the  flour,  bake,  in  thin  layers  and  put 
together  with  apple  whip  frosting. 

Apple  Whip  Frosting:  Two  egg  whites,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  two 
grated  tart  apples,  pinch  of  salt,  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  water.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  the  hot  water,  put  on  a  slow  fire  and  let  simmer  until  it  threads  when 
dropping  from  a  spoon.  Beat  into  the  well  beaten  whites,  add  the  grated 
apple  and  beat  until  cold.  Spread  on  the  bottom  layer,  wait  a  few  minutes 
before  adding  the  next  layer,  continue  until  the  three  are  in  place  and  frost-, 
ing  is  on  entire  cake.  —MRS.  L.  O.  HOPE.  $ 


FRUIT  CAKE 

Twelve  eggs,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  ten  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  three  pounds 
of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-fourth  pound  each  of  candied  orange 
and  lemon  peel,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  of  almonds  (blanched),  one  pound 
of  English  walnuts,  preserved  ginger,  one  glass  of  grape  jelly,  vanilla,  lemon, 

(     51     ) 


J.  G.  HOLT,  Realtor 

Real  Estate,  Rentals  and  Fire  Insurance 

509-510  First  National  Bank  Building 

Telephone  4522 


cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Chop  fruit  and  flour  well  with  part  of  meas- 
ured flour.  This  makes  two  very  large  cakes.  Bake  three  to  four  hours  in  a 
very  slow  oven.  —MRS.  ARTHUR  W.  GROVE. 

ANGEL  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  sifted  five  times,  one  cup  of  swansdown 
flour  sifted  with  one  tablespoon  of  cream  of  tartar  seven  times,  twelve  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Stir  the  sugar  and  flour  into  the  egg  whites  with  two 
forks,  mixing  lightly  and  carefully.  Flavor  with  almond  and  bake  in  an  un- 
greased  mold  one  hour.  Do  not  open  the  oven  door  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes  of  baking.  —MRS.  PAGE  BOWLING. 

SNOWBALLS 

Bake  angel  cake  batter  in  a  shallow  square  cake  pan.  When  done  cut 
in  two-inch  squares  and  trim  the  corners  off  each  square  with  scissors  to 
form  balls.    Dip  in  marshmallow  icing  and  roll  in  cocoanut. 

—MRS.  PAGE  BOWLING. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Melt  one-half  cake  of  chocolate  in  one  cup  boiling  water  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda.  Cream  together  three-fourths  cup  butter  and  three  cups  sugar, 
add  four  eggs  beaten  separately.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  four  cups  of 
swansdown  flour  and  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla. 
Bake  in  layers.  —MRS.  WALTER  CARPENTER. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  two  cups  of  swans- 
down flour,  one  cup  of  hot  water  and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  by  beating  one  cup  of  sugar  into  whites  of  eggs  and  one  cup  into  the 
yolks.  Add  these  together  and  beat  well.  Sift  flour  four  times  and  add  alter- 
nately with  hot  water.  —MRS.  N.  O.  WOOD. 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  five 
eggs,  leave  out  whites  of  two.  Bake  in  four  layers,  two  of  them  are  plain, 
while  to  the  other  two  are  added  one-fourth  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut  fine 
and  floured  well.  One  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  chocolate  and  bake. 

Pilling — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  three  lemons,  rind  of  two, 
juice  of  three,  one  large  package  of  shredded  cocoanut,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch.     Cook  until  thick  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 

—MRS.  N.  O.  WOOD. 

(     52     ) 


THOMAS  &  UPSON 

REAL  ESTATE  AND  INVESTMENTS 

Farms  and  Suburban  Properties — Phone  528 

207  Mountain  Trust  Bank  Building  Roanoke,  Va. 


JAM  CAKE 

Eight  eggs  (save  out  three  whites),  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  milk. 
Four  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  in 
flour.  Two  cups  of  strawberry  jam  put  in  last.  One  and  one-half  teaspoons- 
ful each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  layers  and  ice.  Always 
use  stiff  jam.  —MRS.  W.  H.  GILES. 


FRUIT  CAKE 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  swansdown  flour,  one-half 
pound  of  sugar,  one-half  dozen  eggs  (beaten  separately).  Three  pounds  of 
raisins,  three-fourths  pound  of  blanched  almonds  (cut  fine),  one-half  pound 
pecans  cut  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  one-half  glass  jelly,  one-half 
tumbler  of  brandy,  one-fourth  pound  of  sweet  chocolate,  one-fourth  pound 
citron  cut  fine,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice.  Use 
one  cup  of  flour  to  flour  fruit  after  it  is  cut  fine.  Mix  well  and  bake  three 
hours.  —MRS.  WALTER  A.  CARPENTER. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  heaping  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  hot  water. 

Second  Part — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  grated  chocolate,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  dissolve  over  moderate  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool,  add  to 
first  part  when  cool.  — MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


SPONGE  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  four  eggs  (separated  and  well  beaten),  juice  and  rind 
(grated)  of  half  a  lemon.  One  cup  of  swansdown  flour  (twice  sifted)  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Do  not  beat  sponge  cake  batter  very  much  after 
adding  the  flour  or  the  cake  will  be  heavy.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35 
or  40  minutes.  — MRS.  R.  G.  DALBY. 


S( 
In  tfct 

mtil  ; 


DRIED  APPLE  CAKE 

■fthree  cups  of  apples  over  night  in  cold  water  enough  to  swell  them. 
IijH  morning  chop  fine  and  place  on  stove  with  two  cups  of  molasses,  stir 
until  almost  soft.  Add  a  cup  of  raisins,  stir  a  few  minutes  and  when  cold 
add  three  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Spice  to  taste.  Bake  two  hours  in  a  steady 
oven.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 

(     53     ) 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted 
swansdown  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  and  last  of  all  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  in 
two  layers  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

Filling — Two  cups  of  sugar  (one  white  and  one  brown),  lump  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  of  rich  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  three  squares  of  choco- 
late (20c  cake  of  chocolate).  Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water, 
then  beat  it  until  it  will  still  be  soft  and  easy  to  spread.  At  the  last  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  —MRS.  R.  G.  DALBY. 


MUFFIN  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk, 
two  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla.  One  tablespoonful  of  shredded  cocoanut  may  be  added 
if  desired.  —MRS.  N.  A.  SCHWINGER. 


WHITE   LOAF  CAKE 

The  whites  of  nine  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
creamed  together,  small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  cornstarch,  three  cups 
of  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
(one-half  lemon  and  one-half  vanilla).  Bake  in  a  large  mold  (solid)  until 
done,  test  with  straw.  —MRS.  N.  A.  SCHWINGER. 


GOLD  LOAF  CAKE 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth 
cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  swans- 
down flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, beat  the  yolks  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk, 
then  flour,  stir  hard.  Bake  in  cake  mold  about  40  minutes,  and  test  with 
straw.  —MRS.  N.  A.  SCHWINGER. 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  CAKE 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  three  sections  of  chocolate,  three  eggs,  one 
one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  twice,  add  the 
vanilla  to  water,  beat  the  yolks  till  light  then  add  the  milk,  creamed  butter 
and  sugar,  melted  chocolate,  water  and  flour,  beat  until  smooth  then  jidd  the 
beaten  whites. 


en  add  tc 


Filling — Dissolve  two  cups  of  sugar  in  one-third  cup  of  boiling  watery  boil 
until  it  spins  a  thread  (do  not  stir).  Pour  over  well  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  add  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats  and  when  thick,  spread. 

—MRS.  ASHBY  SCOTT. 

(     54     ) 


WAYNICK'S  FURNITURE  STORE 

A  GOOD  PLACE  TO  TRADE 

128  East  Campbell  Avenue  Roanoke,  Virginia 

Phone  1317 


BEEF  STEAK  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  well  beaten  together,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Two  cups  of 
swansdown  flour  mixed  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Make  into  two 
layers. 

Dark  Layers — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  milk,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  one  coffee  cup  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine.    Make  into  three  layers. 

Filling — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  and  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  let  boil,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  two  cups  of  grated  cocoanut.  Boil 
until  it  thickens.  —MRS.  L.  B.  FOWLER. 


WHITE  CAKE 

Cream  one  cup  of  butter,  add  two  cups  of  sugar  (stir  with  hand  until 
sugar  is  dissolved),  after  sifting  swansdown  flour  three  times  add  three  cups 
of  flour  (add  little  at  a  time),  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  two 
level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  last  add  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs. 

White  Icing — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  whites  of  two 
eggs,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  one 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  the  eggs  until  stiff,  boil  the  sugar  and  water 
until  it  threads,  put  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  while  beating. 

—MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 


CARAMEL  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  creamed  to  a  puffy  lightness, 
five  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  and 
three  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.    Beat  eggs  separate  adding  whites 

last. 

Caramel  Filling — Boil  one  cup  of  white  sugar  and  two  of  brown,  a  scant 
cup  of  cream,  butter  size  of  walnut,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  until 
creamy.  —MRS.  J.  T.  STRICKLAND. 

(     55     ) 


WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE 

Three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  cornstarch,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Put  soda  in  half  of  the  milk,  dissolve  corn  starch  in  the 
rest  of  the  milk  and  add  it  to  the  sugar  and  butter  well  beaten  together,  then 
the  milk  and  soda,  and  the  flour  and  eggs.    This  is  best  baked  in  a  loaf. 

—MRS.  F.  W.  CRAIG. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Part  One — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Part  Two — Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  grated  choco- 
late, one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Boil  until  it  thickens. 
When  cool  add  to  part  one. 


SPICE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour,  three  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water, 
add  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice,  one  nutmeg. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks,  milk  and  soda,  then  add  flour,  last  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  spices.  One  cupful  of  raisins  and  one  cupful  of  nuts 
can  be  added  if  desired.  Use  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
for  filling.  Boil  sugar  until  it  will  rope,  then  pour  it  slowly  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites. 


FIG  CAKE 

White  Part — The  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two-thirds 
of  cupful  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  swans- 
down flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
lemon  flavor. 


CUP  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.     Beat  eggs  separately. 


JAM  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  glass  of  butter,  one  glass  of  sugar,  one  glass 
of  jam,  two  and  one-half  glasses  of  swansdown  flour,  four  tablespoonsful  of 
sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  spices  to  taste. 

(     56     ) 


NEW  CENTRAL  GARAGE,  Inc. 

WILLYS-KNIGHT  and  OVERLAND  CARS 
Storage  by  the  day,  week  or  month 


ANGEL   FOOD  CAKE 

Whites  of  sixteen  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  cups  of  swansdown 
flour  (large  coffee  cups),  two  and  two-thirds  cups  of  sugar  (fine  or  rolled), 
three  small  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  a  few  drops 
of  any  desired  extract.  Do  not  beat  while  mixing.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
from  an  hour  and  ten  minutes  to  an  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Then  test 
with  a  straw. 


CHOCOLATE  BATTER  CAKE 

Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one-half 
cake  of  grated  chocolate.  Put  on  stove  and  stir  until  it  is  hot,  then  set  aside 
to  cool.  Make  a  batter  of  three  eggs  (beaten  separately),  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  swans- 
down  flour  (before  sifting)  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  well,  adding  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour  to  it;  then  mix  yellows  and 
sugar,  add  to  butter,  then  whites  of  eggs  and  flour  alternately.  The  two  bat- 
ters must  then  be  mixed  together.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling — Two  cupsful  of  sugar  dissolved  in  hot  water,  cook  until  it  threads 
well,  then  pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  very  slowly  and  flavor 
highly  with  vanilla.  Put  very  thick  between  the  layers.  For  outside  of  cake 
make  the  icing  the  same  way  but  do  not  flavor  at  all. 


PORK  CAKE 

One  pound  of  fat  pork  (weighing  without  rind),  one  pint  of  strong  coffee, 
four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  English 
walnuts,  nine  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  soda,  one  table- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  pinch  of  salt. 

Directions — Grind  pork,  then  pour  coffee  boiling  hot  on  it,  and  set  on  the 
stove  a  few  minutes  before  adding  any  of  the  other  ingredients.  Then  put  in 
sugar,  soda,  spices  and  flour.  Dredge  nuts  and  raisins  with  flour  and  add  last. 
Bake  one  hour. 


NUT  CAKE 

Three  cups  of  swansdown  flour  (before  sifting),  three-fourths  cup  of 
butter  or  crisco,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
sifted  with  the  flour,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  chopped 
nuts  floured.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

(     57     ) 


WALNUT  CAKE 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  two  and  one-half 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  three  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  walnut 
meats  broken  in  pieces.  Bake  forty-five  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and  put 
half  of  a  walnut  meat  on  each. 


WHITE  CAKE 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour, 
one  cupful  of  cornstarch,  one  cupful  of  butter,  level  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  — MRS.  F.  W.  CRAIG. 


VELVET  CAKE 

Seven  eggs,  whites  only,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  swansdown 
flour,  one  cupful  of  cornstarch,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  scant  cupful  of  butter, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.    Flavor  to  taste. 


SCRIPTURE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter Judges,  5 :  25 

Three  and  one-half  cups  swansdown  flour I  Kings,  4:22 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder Amos  4 : 5 

Three  cups  sugar Jeremiah,  6 :  20 

Two  cups  raisins  I  Samuel,  30 :  12 

Two  cups  figs  Jeremiah,  29 : 2 

One  cup  water  Numbers,  28 : 5 

Six  eggs  Isaiah,  10 :  14 

One  tablespoon  honey  Genesis,  43 :  11 

A  pinch  of  salt  Leviticus,  2 :  13 

Spice  to  taste  I  Kings,  10 :  10 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  a  good  boy  and  you  will  have  a  good 
cake.— Prov.  23:14. 


DEVIL  CAKE 

Custard  Part — One  cupful  grated  chocolate,  one  cupful  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  sweet  milk.  Dissolve  over  slow  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  to 
second  part  when  cool. 

Second  Part — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of 
three  eggs  or  two  whole  eggs,  two  cups  of  swansdown  flour  with  one  small 
teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  on  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk. 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

Whites  of  nine  large  or  ten  small  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  cup  swansdown  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  added 
to  eggs  when  about  half  beaten.    Flavor  to  taste. 

(     58     ) 


BUSH-FLORA  SHOE  COMPANY 

HIGH  GRADE  SHOES  AND  BAGGAGE 

131  Salem  Avenue,  West 

E.  L.  Bush,  President  E.  R.  Hall,  Sec'y  and  Treas. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

First  Part — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  two  heaping  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  small 
teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  in  the  flour. 

Second  Part — One  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk.  Heat  until  dissolved  but  do  not  boil.  When  cool  stir  into 
it  first  part  and  bake  in  three  pans. 

Filling — Two  cups  of  light  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk.  Boil  five  minutes.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick 
enough  to  spread. 


ANGEL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar. Sift  the  flour  four  times  and  the  sugar  once,  add  cream  of  tartar  to  the 
flour  or  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  on  large  platter.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 


MARBLE  CAKE 

White  Part — One  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  cupfuls  of 
swansdown  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powTder,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  flavor  with  lemon. 

Dark  Part — One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  one  cupful 
of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  cupfuls  of 
swansdown  flour,  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  spices  of  all  kind3. 
Put  dark  layer  on  the  bottom  and  top  with  white  layer. 


GINGERBREAD  WITHOUT  EGGS 


One  cupful  of  sugar,  thoroughly  creamed  with  one  cupful  of  lard  in  which 
a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  stirred,  one  cupful  of  cooking  molasses  slightly 
warmed,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cin- 

(     59     ) 


namon,  and  swansdown  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Bake  slowly. 
This  is  pronounced  by  all  to  be  better  than  the  ginger  bread  made  with  eggs. 
If  there  is  no  milk  water  may  be  used.  A  cupful  of  raisins  can  be  added. 
Can  be  cut  in  strips  and  served  with  sauce  as  a  pudding. 


WHITE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
three  teaspoonsful  baking  powder  (level),  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract.  Delicious  baked  in  layers  with  cocoanut 
filling.  —MRS.  R.  COSBY  NEWTON. 


WHITE  CAKE 

Cream  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of  milk, 
sift  three  cups  of  flour,  add  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  sift  again. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  put  in  just  before  baking.    Flavor  to  taste. 


ANGEL'S   FOOD  CAKE 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  one  teacup  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  then  beat  sugar  into  the  whites,  one  teacup  of  swansdown  flour  sifted 
seven  times,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  through  the  flour.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.    Bake  sixty  minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven. 


CREAM  CAKE 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  swansdown  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  in  the  milk,-  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.    Flavor. 


SPONGE  CAKE 

Five  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  of  swansdown  flour, 
flavor  with  lemon.  Beat  the  yellows  and  sugar  together  until  light,  add  well 
beaten  whites  and  flour  last. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup 
of  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  two  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  one-fourth 
cake  of  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  mix 
in  eggs  beaten  separately  and  only  one  white,  sour  milk  and  soda,  then  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  chocolate  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


JAM  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  swansdown  flour,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 

(     60     ) 


"The  Man's  Store" 

BUSH  &  HANCOCK. 

Inc. 

18  West  Campbell  Avenue 

Hickey- 

Freeman  Clothes 

Knox  Hats 

grated  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  strawberry  jam,  mix  jam  with  one-half  cup  of 
whiskey  or  brandy.  Mix  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  cream  with  the  soda. 
Beat  eggs  into  this,  add  flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  put  in 
jam  last.    This  cake  is  fine  eaten  hot  with  sauce. 


FRUIT  CAKE 

Ten  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separatley,  five  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
one-half  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  cups  of  butter,  one 
quart  of  swansdown  flour,  one  pound  each  of  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel 
sliced  thin,  two  pounds  of  citron  sliced  thin,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  one 
pound  each  of  figs  and  dates  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  pounds  of  almonds  cut 
in  half,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  cup  of  French  brandy,  one  cup  of  sherry 
wine,  one  tumbler  of  dark  jelly,  one  apple  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  cake  of 
chocolate  grated,  one  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of  spices.  Flour  all  the  fruit  be- 
fore mixing  and  bake  three  or  four  hours.  This  makes  two  large  cakes  or 
three  small  ones. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     61     ) 


SMALL  CAKES 


'Sweet  cakes  and  short  cakes 
Ginger  cakes  and  honey  cakes, 
And  the  whole  family  of  cakes.' 


NOTHINGS 

Beat  three  eggs  thoroughly.  Add  flour,  containing  pinch  of  soda,  till  the 
dough  is  quite  stiff.  Roll  as  thin  as  possible.  Cut  out  with  a  large  saucer  or 
teaplate.  Fry,  without  browning,  in  a  flat  pan  containing  boiling  hot  lard 
sufficient  to  float  the  "Nothings"  as  they  fluff  up,  keeping  all  the  brownish 
scum  which  may  form  skimmed  clear.  Drain  each  "Nothing"  from  the  lard, 
upon  a  napkin.  When  cool,  pile  into  a  stack,  sifting  pulverized  sugar  and 
cinnamon  over  the  cake.    A  beautiful  and  good  dish  for  tea. 


DROP  GINGER  COOKIES 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  hot  water  in  which  is  dissolved  one 
tablespoonful  of  soda,  five  cupfuls  of  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  two  teaspoonsful  of  ginger,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Heat  pans  and  grease, 
then  drop  in  by  spoonsful  a  little  distance  apart  and  bake. 


DOUGHNUTS 

Six  eggs  beaten  light,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one- 
half  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  swansdown  flour  for  a  soft 
dough.    Have  lard  boiling  and  dust  doughnuts  with  powdered  sugar  while  hot. 


NUT  SQUARES 

Beat  one  egg  with  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one- 
fourth  saltspoonful  of  soda,  add  one  cupful  of  hickory  or  other  nuts  chopped 
fine  and  five  tablespoonsful  of  swansdown  flour.  Spread  out  in  a  flat  pan  and 
bake  twenty  minutes,  then  cut  in  squares.  The  squares  should  be  one  inch 
thick  when  cut. 


CREAM  CAKES 

Cream  together  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  Sift  three  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  sifted  swansdown  pastry  flour  and  add  it  gradually  to  this 
mixture,  mixing  with  the  last  half  cupful  three  and  a  half  level  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder, 

(     62     ) 


CRYSTAL  SPRING  LAUNDRY  GO. 

Incorporated 

720  Franklin  Road,  Roanoke,  Va. 

D.  W.  Howell,  Secretary  L.  H.  Weld,  Manager 

Phones  828-829 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

Two  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  butter  or  butter  and  snowdrift  mixed,  one 
cup  sugar,  two  cups  of  sifted  swansdown  flour,  two  cups  of  dry  oatmeal,  one 
cup  of  seeded  raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of 
hot  water,  four  tablespoons  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  Sauer's  cinnamon.  Drop 
by  spoon  on  greased  pan.  This  is  stiff  batter  but  spreads.  Leave  space  be- 
tween cookies.  —MRS.  W.  N.  SAUNDERS. 


OATMEAL  MACAROONS 

Two  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  melted  shortening,  two 
cups  rolled  oats,  one  cup  cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  three  tablespoons  cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  twenty  minutes.  — MRS.  ERNEST  H.  JENNINGS. 


GINGERBREAD 

One-third  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  boiling  water, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  grated  orange  peel,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  one 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Mix  in  the  order  given.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a 
loaf  thirty  minutes.    Serve  with  whipped  cream.— MRS.  R.  COSBY  NEWTON. 


NEW  ENGLAND  DOUGHNUTS 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  fat  taken 
from  the  boiling  fat  in  which  the  frying  is  to  be  done,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  with  sufficient  swansdown  flour  to  make  soft 
dough.  Don't  make  the  doughnuts  until  the  fat  is  boiling,  and  in  that  way 
they  don't  soak  up  the  fat.  —MRS.  W.  H.  DUNCAN. 


BROWNIES 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  whole  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  tablespoons  of  grated  choco- 
late (melted),  one  cup  of  swansdown  flour.  Spread  thin  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  for  twenty  minutes.     Cut  in  squares.       — MRS.  L.  B.  FOWLER. 

(     63     ) 


GINGER  BREAD 

One  cup  sugar  (white),  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  two  teaspoons 
of  soda  in  cup  of  boiling  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  swansdown  flour. 
Add  one  egg  well  beaten  last,  threefourths  cup  of  raisins  or  nuts  if  desired. 

—MISS  COOPER. 


DOUGHNUTS 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  large  tablespoon 
of  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt  and  nutmeg.  Add 
swansdown  flour  enough  to  roll,  fry  in  hot  snowdrift  lard. 

—MRS.  N.  O.  WOOD. 


CHOCOLATE  DOUGHNUTS 

Make  very  small  doughnuts,  cut  with  top  of  salt  shaker.  Fry  them  and 
when  cold  dip  in  melted  chocolate  the  same  as  for  chocolate  creams.  They 
are  delicious.  —MRS.  C.  M.  KIRKBRIDEL 


COOKIES 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  well.  Sift  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  with 
two  and  one-half  cups  swansdown  flour,  scant  measure.  Then  add  with  one- 
fourth  cup  milk  to  the  mixture,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Chill,  roll  thin  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  — MRS.  R.  G.  DALBY. 


JELLY  ROLL 

Three  eggs,  one  scant  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  water,  one  cup  swansdown 
flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  about  ten  minutes.  Turn  out  on 
damp  cloth,  spread  with  Jelly,  roll  quickly.  —MRS.  N.  O.  WOOD. 


SPICE  MUFFINS 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  three-fourth  cup  swansdown 
flour,  one-half  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  nuts,  two-thirds  cup  of  cold  coffee  or 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves, 
a  pinch  of  salt.  —MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


FEATHER  GINGER  BREAD 

One-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  melted 
lard,  one-fourth  cup  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  bread 
flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  ginger,  one  well  beaten  egg.  Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  blend 
all  that  remain  and  beat  in  the  flour  mixture.  Bake  in  a  single  layer  cake 
pan,  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. — MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 

(     64     ) 


ORANGE  CAKE 
I  £  cupful  butter  or  substitute  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

2  cupfuls  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour        ^cupful  milk 

1  feaspobnful  flavoring 

Sift  flour  once  before  measuring. 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  gradually.  Add  beaten  egg  yolks  and 
beat  hard.  Sift  flour,  measure,  add  baking  powder  and  sift  again.  Add 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Add  flavoring.  Fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  2  layers  or  double  recipe  for  3  large  layers, 
in  moderately  hot  oven  (.375°  P.).  Put  together  with  Orange  Filling, 
and  cover  with  Boiled  Icing. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

1  cupful  sugar  '■>  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

f)  tablespoonfuls    Swans    Down  4  tablespoonfuls  water 

Cake  Flour  1  egg  slightly  beat  en 

Grated  rind  1  orange  2  teaspoonfuls  butter 

l/2  cupful  orange  juice 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler, 
st  irring  constantly.  Cool  before  spreading. 

DELICIOUS  ONE-EGG  CAKE 
J4  cupful  butter  or  substitute  13^    cupfuls    Iglehcart's    Swans 

%  cupful  sugar  Down  Cake  Flour 

I  egg,  well  beaten  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  2  cupful  milk  l^i  teaspoonf ul  vanilla 

Cream  the  shortening;  add  gradually  the  sugar,  beating  hard,  then 
the  egg;  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together;  add  alternately  with  the 
milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  about  30  minutes  (350-375°  F.).    Ice  as  desired. 

MARBLE  ANGEL  FOOD 

1 1  egg  whites  (1 34  cupfuls) 
34  teaspoonf  ul  salt 
1  teaspoonf  ul  cream  of  tartar 
1  34  cupfuls  sugar  (sifted) 
White  Part  Dark  Part 

3  £  Cupful  Swans  I  )own  Cake  Flour  2  tablespoonfuls  cocoa 

]  2  tcaspoonful  vanilla  0  tablespoonfuls  Swans  1  town 

Cake  Flour 
34  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Add  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  on  a  large  platter  until  foamy,  then 
add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  the  whites  are  stiff  but  not  dry. 
Fold  the  sugar  in  carefully,  using  one  tablespoonful  at  a  time.  When 
all  the  sugar  has  been  folded  in,  divide  the  egg  mixture  into  two  equal 
parts.  To  one  part,  fold  in  carefully  }  ■>  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  3  2  cupful 
Swans  Down  Cake  Flour,  which  has  been  sifted  four  times.  To  the  other 
part  add  the  lemon  extract,  and  the  cocoa  and  6  tablespoonfuls  Swans 
Down  Cake  Flour  which  have  been  sifted  together  five  times. 

Put  these  two  batters  into  Angel  Food  tin,  alternating  the  white 
and  dark.    Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven  d'7.")0  to  325°  P.). 


(See  Recipe  Other  Side) 


When  you  make  cake 


Recipes  for  many  tempting  and 
delicious  cakes  are  given  in  "Cake 
Secrets."  A  dime  ( in  coin  or  stamps ) 
will  bring  you  this  famous  recipe 
book  about 
which  a  woman 
recently  wrote 
us:  "I  wouldn't 
sell  mine  for  a 
dollar  if  I  knew  1 
couldn't  get  an- 
ther copy." 


Nothing  gives  such  won- 
derful results  in  home  made 
cakes  as  Swans  Down  Cake 
Flour !  You  can  have  lighter, 
whiter,  finer,  better  cake- 
pie  crust  —  pastry,  just  as 
you  long  to  have  it. 

Swans  Down  is  true  econ- 
omy; it  saves  all  the  costly 
waste  of  cake  disappoint- 
ments. 


IGLEHEART   BROTHERS 

Established  1856 

EVANSVILLE,  INDIANA 
Your  Grocer  Can  Supply    You 


R.  N.  VANDERBERRY 

Contractor  for 

TILE,  MARBLE  AND  TERRAZZO  WORK 

507  Commerce  Street,  Roanoke,  Va.  Phone  1313 


HERMITS   (OR   FRUIT  DROP  CAKES) 

Three  cups  swansdown  flour,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cup  brown  sugar, 
three-fourths  cup  butter  and  lard,  one-third  cup  milk,  one  cup  nut  meats,  one 
cup  chopped  raisins  (roll  nuts  and  raisins  in  flour),  one  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  spice  and  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  ltitle  hot  water.  Cream  sugar  and  shorten- 
ing, add  eggs,  hot  water  with  dissolved  soda,  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder, 
last  nut  meats  and  raisins.  Drop  small  spoonful  on  greased  tins  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven.  —MRS.  C.  A.  HOWARD. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  four  tablespoons- 
fuls  sweet  milk,  two  cups  swansdown  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup 
raisins,  one  cup  nut  meats  (chopped),  one-half  nutmeg  grated,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  cinnamon.  Drop  from  teaspoon  in  well  greased  tins  and  bake  in 
quick  oven.  —MRS.  W.  A.  CARPENTER. 


GINGER  BREAD 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  buttermilk,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  two  eggs,  four  cups  swansdown  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  table- 
spoonful  ginger  and  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  raisins.  Mix  like 
cake.  —MRS.  W.  A.  CARPENTER. 


NUT  DROPS 

Two  cups  swansdown  flour  sifted,  one  cup  coarsely  chopped  walnuts, 
two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
two  eggs  beaten  and  mix  all  together  to  a  paste,  two  tablespoonsful  of  water. 
Drop  in  small  heaps  on  buttered  paper  lined  plates  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

—MRS.  W.  H.  CARROLL. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     65     ) 


CAKE  FILLINGS 

"A  wilderness  of  sweets." 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

Melt  four  ounces  of  chocolate,  dilute  with  three  teaspoons  of  milk,  then 
add  one  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with  a  well  beaten  egg  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 


LEMON   BUTTER 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  thick. 
Will  keep  a  week  in  a  cool  place. 


SEA  FOAM   ICING 

Boil  two  cups  brown  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  water  until  it  will  form 
a  mass  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  slowly  over  the  well  beaten  white 
of  an  egg,  beating  all  the  time.  When  nearly  cool  place  on  cake.  Is  very 
nice  used  with  ordinary  icing,  using  a  layer  of  each. 


MARSHMALLOW   FILLING 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one 
tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Let  boil  until  it  hairs,  stir  in  one-half  pound  of  marsh- 
mallows  and  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  constantly  until  creamy 
and  stiff. 


YELLOW  ICING 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  eight  tablespoons  of  water.  Boil  until  it 
ropes  well  and  pour  over  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Beat  until  cool 
and  flavor  with  orange. 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  water,  boil  together 
until  it  forms  threads,  then  pour  on  the  well  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Melt 
chocolate  and  beat  well  into  the  icing. 


LEMON  CHEESE   MEAT 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  three  lemons,  three  small  sweet  cakes 
or  lady  fingers  grated,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  grated  rind  of  two  of  the 
lemons.    Put  on  fire  and  stew  all  together  until  the  mixture  looks  like  honey. 

(     66      ) 


w 

.  S.  McClanahan,  Prest. 

H.  B.  Gray, 

Vice  Prest. 

W.  S.  McCLANAHAN  &  CO., 

Inc. 

GENERAL  INSURANCE— LOANS 

23 

Campbell  Avenue,  West 

Roanoke,  Virginia 

Stir  all  the  time  as  it  sticks  easily.    Use  for  putting  in  layer  cakes.     It  keeps 
three  years  if  closely  covered.     This  is  an  old  English  recipe. 


MARSH  MALLOW   FILLING 

Put  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  of  water  over  fire 
together.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  carefully  until  it  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  While  watching  this  pull  apart  half 
a  pound  of  marshmallows,  put  them  in  double  boiler  with  two  tablespoons  hot 
water  and  stir  until  melted.  Now  pour  the  hot  syrup  gradually  into  marsh- 
mallow  mixture,  beating  all  the  while.  Add  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  beat 
until  cold. 


SOFT  ICING 

Boil  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water  and  one-third  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar  together  until  it  forms  a  thick  syrup,  then  pour  half  of  it  very 
slowly  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beating  constantly;  let  the 
remainder  of  the  syrup  boil  until  it  forms  a  good  ball  when  tested  in  cold 
water,  then  pour  slowly  over  the  first  part  and  beat  until  cool  and  thick. 
Flavor  to  taste.    Put  on  cake  very  thick. 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM   FILLING 

Ice  the  top  of  bottom  layer  and  bottom  of  next  layer  of  cake  with  a  choc- 
olate fudge  or  other  chocolate  icing  and  on  top  of  that  on  the  bottom  layer 
place  a  thick  layer  of  soft  white  icing,  place  the  next  layer  with  chocolate 
side  down  when  the  other  has  set  a  little.  Cover  outside  of  cake  with  either 
plain  or  chocolate  icing. 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  ICING 

Melt  two  ounces  of  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  two  cups  of  sugar  and 
one  cup  of  milk,  and  stir  while  gradually  heating.  Beat  vigorously  when  the 
boiling  point  is  reached,  then  cook  until  the  soft  ball  stage  is  reached.  Add 
a  teaspoon  of  butter, 

—  MEMO  — 


(     67     ) 


DESSERTS 

"  'Tis  the  dessert  that  graces  all  the  feast 
For  ill  end  disparages  the  rest." 

FROZEN  DESSERTS 

"Dream  of  a  shadow!     A  reflection,  make 
From  the  false  glories  of  the  gay  reflected  bow, 
Is  a  more  solid  thing  than  thou." 


MAPLE  MOUSSE 

One  cup  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook  this  in  double 
boiler  until  thick  enough  to  adhere  to  spoon,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  fire  and  beat  until  cool.  Add  this  to  one  pint  whipped  cream  and  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pack  in  freezer  with  dasher  removed  and  let 
stand  three  or  four  hours.  — MRS.  C.  C.  JACOBS. 


FIVE  THREES— FRUIT  SHERBET 

Three  oranges,  three  lemons,  three  bananas,  three  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  water,  mix  and  freeze.  — MISS  ANNA  COOPER. 


MINT  ICE 

One-half  pound  peppermint  candy  dissolved  in  one  pint  milk,  one  pint 
cream,  two  quarts  custard  made  of  three  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Mix 
and  freeze.  —MRS.  W.  T.  DENT. 


ICE   BOX   DESSERT 

Cream  one-half  pound  of  sweet  butter,  then  beat  in  gradually  one  cup  of 
sifted  confectioner's  sugar.  Add  to  this  six  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time  beating 
each  in  well.  To  this  add  the  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Cover  the  bottom  of  mold  or  loaf  pan  with  layer  of  sponge  cake  cut 
in  one-half  or  one  inch  thickness  or  Lady  Fingers  if  preferred.  Place  over  this 
a  layer  of  the  dessert  mixture  then  another  of  the  cake  and  so  on  until  mold 
is  filled.  The  top  layer  may  be  either  cake  or  the  dessert  mixture.  Leave 
in  Ice  Box  24  hours.  Turn  out  on  plate  and  cut  in  slices.  This  may  be  served 
with  whipped  cream  if  desired.  —MRS.  C.  M.  KIRKBRIDE. 


SHERBERT 

Three  pints  of  boiling  water,  three  scant  cups  of  white  sugar,  four  lemons, 
four  oranges,  six  bananas,  white  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  swansdown 

(     68     ) 


Your  HATS  and  COATS  for  Ladies,  Misses,  Children 
New  creations  shown  daily — Hats  remodeled  or  made  to  order 

HORNE'S 

Retail  Department,  17  W.  Church  Ave.,  Roanoke,  Va. 


flour.  Put  water  on  to  boil,  mix  sugar  and  flour  together  well,  then  run  them 
through  sifter.  Mix  flour  and  sugar  with  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil,  set  off 
to  get  cold,  then  mix  fruit  with  it.  After  it  is  most  frozen  add  white  of  one 
egg.  —MRS.  SAM  HAIRSTON. 


PINEAPPLE   FLUFF 

One  can  cube  pineapple  (or  one  small  ripe  pineapple),  ten  cents  worth 
of  marshmallows,  one-half  pint  of  cream.  If  fresh  pineapple  is  used,  cut  in 
dice  or  very  small  pieces,  early  in  the  morning,  cover  with  sugar  and  let 
stand  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve,  then  add  the  marshmallows  which  have 
been  cut  into  small  pieces  and  the  cream  whipped  with  a  little  sugar.  Serve 
immediately. 


MARSHMALLOW   PUDDING 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff.  Stir  into  them  two  tablespoons  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of  hot  water.  Add  one-half  cup  of  cold 
water  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  well.  Divide  into  three  equal  parts  and 
color  one  part  pink  and  one  part  with  melted  chocolate,  add  one  cup  of  al- 
monds and  pour  in  mould  in  layers.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Soak  half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  cold  milk,  then  dissolve  in 
one-half  pint  of  hot  milk.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
and  flavor  to  taste.  Line  dish  with  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake;  mix  gelatine 
and  whipped  cream  together,  pour  in  dish  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Before 
serving,  whip  half  pint  of  thick  cream,  mound  on  top  of  russe.  Flavor  with 
almond  flavoring,  the  russe  with  vanilla.  Garnish  with  Maraschino  or  can- 
died cherries. 


MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

After  soaking  a  pound  of  fresh  marshmallows  in  a  teacup  of  sherry,  stir 
them  into  a  quart  of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  add  a  good  tablespoonful  of 
thoroughly  dissolved  gelatine.  Stir  this  all  lightly  together,  sweetening  to 
taste.  Pour  into  a  bowl  from  which  to  serve  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Gar- 
nish with  whole  marshmallows  and  candied  cherries. 

(     69     ) 


CHARLOTTE   RUSSE 

Three  cups  of  sifted  sugar,  one  glass  of  sherry  or  other  wine,  one  quart 
of  cream,  whipped,  stir  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten,  then  pour  enough 
of  fresh  morning's  milk  over  three-fourths  of  a  box  of  gelatine  to  dissolve  it, 
then  pour  into  the  flavored  and  whipped  cream.  Add  one-fourth  pound  of 
blanched  chopped  almonds.  Pour  into  molds  well-lined  with  sponge  cake 
or  lady  fingers. 


ORANGE  CHARLOTTE 

One-half  package  of  gelatine,  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar  one  and  one-half  cups  of  orange  juice,  juice  of  three  lemons, 
whites  of  five  eggs.  Line  a  mould  with  sections  of  orange.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  lemon  and  orange  juice.  Stand  in  a  cold  place. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  and  when  jelly  begins  to  thicken,  beat  into  it 
the  whites.  Pour  into  mould  and  when  firm  turn  out  into  dish  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


RASPBERRY  FLOAT 

Crush  pint  of  red  raspberries  with  a  gill  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  gradually  another  gill  of  sugar.  Press 
berries  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds  and  by  degrees  beat  pulp  into  eggs 
and  sugar  until  so  stiff  that  it  will  stand. 


HEAVENLY  HASH 

Fill  a  dish  with  slices  of  bananas,  oranges,  pineapple  and  white  grapes 
or  any  fruit  desired.  Make  a  jelly  of  one  package  of  gelatine,  one  pint  of 
cold  water,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  enough  pineapple  juice  to  flavor  it.  Let 
stand  one  hour,  then  add  two  pints  of  sugar,  two  pints  of  boiling  water.  Strain 
over  the  fruit.    Let  it  get  cold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


MARSHMALLOW  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Soak  one  teaspoon  Knox's  gelatine  in  a  little  cream  or  milk  for  one  hour. 
Add  a  little  boiling  water  and  set  in  warm  place  until  gelatine  is  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Whip  one  cup  of  cream,  add  one  tablespoon  granulated  sugar,  two 
dozen  marshmallows  quartered,  and  stir  in  the  gelatine  mixture.  Flavor  and 
set  in  cool  place.    This  serves  four.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


ORANGE  SHERBET 

Peel  six  oranges  and  grate,  remove  seeds,  add  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar.  Dissolve  one  package  of  orange  Jell-0  in  one 
pint  of  water,  stir  altogether  thoroughly,  then  put  in  freezer  and  when  it 
begins  to  freeze  add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  thick  cream,  whipped  and 
sweetened.  When  frozen  pack  freezer  and  let  stand  one  hour.  This  quantity 
will  about  fill  a  three  quart-freezer. 

(     70     ) 


FOR  BEST  RESULTS  USE 

ASTOR      RICE 

Cooks 

Large,  White  and  Flaky — At  All  Good  Grocers 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

Put  three  cups  of  sugar  in  a  gallon  vessel  and  melt  over  a  hot  fire.  Have 
ready  one  pint  of  hot  cream  into  which  has  been  cooked  one  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch,  pour  into  the  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Soak  one-fourth  box 
of  gelatine  in  two  tablespoons  of  milk  and  melt  over  steam  and  beat  into 
three  quarts  of  cream.  Add  the  caramel  mixture  and  freeze.  (Cornstarch 
added  to  the  hot  milk  prevents  curdling.) 


FROZEN    PUDDING 

Six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  quart  of  new 
milk,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  fifteen-cent  can  of 
grated  pineapple,  one-half  pound  of  shelled  English  walnuts,  one-half  pound 
of  figs,  one-half  pint  of  sherry.  Chop  fruit  and  nuts  and  soak  in  the  sherry 
over  night.  Make  custard  of  the  milk  and  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  cold 
milk.    Add  all  to  the  custard  and  freeze. 


MILK  SHERBET 

One-half  gallon  of  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  let  it  get  hot  and  pour  over 
one-third  box  of  gelatine.  Let  it  get  cold,  put  in  freezer  and  freeze  slightly. 
Add  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  quart  of  good  cream  and  the  juice 
of  eight  good-sized  lemons.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     71     ) 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 

"Men  make  wealth,  and  women  preserve  it." 

CANNED  GREEN  SWEET  PEPPERS 

Select  green  peppers  of  small  and  medium  size.  Put  on  in  hot  water 
whole.  Let  boil  half  hour.  Handling  gently  so  as  not  to  break  them,  place 
them  in  the  large  mouth  jars.  A  half  teaspoon  of  canning  acid  placed  on  top 
of  the  fruit  insures  their  keeping.  These  are  fine  for  stuffing  during  the 
winter.  The  red  peppers  may  be  canned  also  by  cutting  out  the  seeds  and 
boiling  an  hour.  Seal  in  pint  cans.  An  excellent  addition  and  garnish  to  any 
salad. 

TO  CAN  CORN 

One  gallon  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  three-fourths  pint  of  salt,  two  pints 
of  water.  Boil  briskly  for  twenty  minutes,  put  in  jars  and  seal.  Before  using 
soak  well  in  water  to  remove  salt.    This  is  as  nice  as  fresh  corn. 


CANNED  TOMATOES 

Pour  boiling  water  over  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  and  skin.  Remove  part  of 
the  stem,  drop  in  sterilized  jars  and  set  in  kettle  of  hot  water  and  boil  for 
thirty  minutes.  Set  out  jars,  remove  tops  and  fill  jars  running  over  with 
freshly  boiling  water.     Seal  perfectly  air  tight. 


CANNED  PEARS 

Boil  pears  in  clear  water  until  you  can  just  pierce  them  with  a  straw. 
Have  on  stove  another  vessel  with  sweetened  water,  about  one-fourth  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Place  pears  in  jars,  using  a  fork  to  handle. 
Fill  jars  running  over  with  the  sweetened  water  and  be  sure  to  remove  all 
air  bubbles.    Seal  air  tight. 


CANNED  BEANS 

Take  young,  tender  beans,  free  from  blemishes,  string  thoroughly  and 
break  into  small  pieces.  Wash  well,  put  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Allow  one  pint  of  salt  to  every  twelve  pints  of  beans,  cook  two  hours 
or  longer,  adding  salt  about  one-half  hour  before  removing  beans  from  the 
fire.  Sterilize  jars,  tops  and  rubbers,  overflow  cans  of  beans  with  the  salted 
water  and  seal  air  tight. 


CANNED  BEANS 

Pack  nice,  tender,  young  beans,  free  from  blemishes,  tightly  in  sterilized 
jars.  Fill  jars  full  of  cold  sterilized  water.  Seal  and  stand  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  four  hours.  Let  stand  in  water  until  cool 
enough  to  handle,  then  tighten  tops  and  set  away  in  the  dark. 

(     72     ) 


HOWERY-TAYLOR  MILLING  CO.,  Inc. 

Manufacturers  of  FLOUR,  MEAL  and  FEED 

Leading  Brands  of  Flour :  Roanoke's  Best,  Victory  self -rising, 

Sifted  Snow,  Blue  Ribbon,  Dixie 

Roanoke,  Virginia 


TO  COOK  CANNED  BEANS 

Open  beans,  drain  water  off  and  empty  in  vessel.  To  one-half  gallon  of 
beans  put  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda  and  cover  beans  with  cold  water,  let 
stand  an  hour  or  so  and  wash  thoroughly  and  put  in  pot  with  the  meat  that 
has  been  cooking.  Let  cook  down  nearly  dry  and  just  before  removing  from 
the  fire  add  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 


TO  CAN  PEACHES 

Pack  in  quart  jars.  Dissolve  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  in  one  cup  of 
cold  water,  pour  over  the  peaches,  seal  tight.  Place  in  vessel  with  cold  water 
enough  to  almost  cover  the  jar.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes  after  water  begins 
to  boil. 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

Put  two  pounds  of  strawberries  and  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  in  a 
white-lined  cooking  vessel  on  back  of  the  stove.  When  enough  juice  is  drawn 
out  to  prevent  burning,  bring  to  a  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  off  the  stove 
and  set  aside  until  morning,  cover  with  a  cloth.  Fill  your  jars  with  the  cold 
preserves  and  seal.  Only  make  two  pounds  at  one  time  and  always  leave 
open  over  night.    This  is  fine  for  any  soft  fruit. 


GRAPEFRUIT  MARMALADE 

First  day — One  grapefruit,  one  orange,  one  lemon.  Peel  thin  and  cut 
peeling  very  fine  or  put  through  a  meat  grinder.  Scrape  off  white  pulpy  skin 
and  throw  away.  Cut  fruit  in  dice.  To  one  cup  of  fruit  put  three  cups  of 
water  and  let  stand  over  night  in  earthenware  vessel. 

Second  day — Boil  ten  minutes. 

Third  day — Put  cup  for  cup,  of  sugar  and  fruit,  and  boil  until  it  reaches 
the  consistency  of  honey  or  thick  s.  up.  This  quantity  should  fill  twelve 
glasses. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     73     ) 


CHAFING  DISH  DAINTIES 

'Small  cheer  and  great  welcome  makes  a  merry  feast. 


FUDGE 

The  main  points  to  be  observed,  to  make  fudge  creamy,  are  (1)  to  use 
brown  sugar,  (2)  not  to  stir  while  cooking,  (3)  to  beat  rapidly  as  soon  as  it 
has  finished  cooking,  until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  If  made  in  chafing  dish,  cook 
over  hot  water  pan,  to  prevent  burning.  The  following  proportions  will  prove 
satisfactory: 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  squares  of  chocolate  (or  more  if  desired; 
cocoa  may  be  used  instead,  using  about  two  tablespoonsful  to  each  cupful  of 
sugar),  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins  and  nuts  if 
desired.  Mix  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  in  the  blazer,  stirring  constantly 
until  dissolved,  but  not  after  it  begins  to  cook.  Boil  until  it  forms  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  If  it  boils  too  long,  candy  will  be  hard.  Add 
butter  just  before  candy  is  done,  then  set  in  a  cool  place,  add  vanilla  and 
beat  vigorously.  Lemon  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  vanilla.  If  nuts  or 
raisins  are  used,  pour  them  in  after  candy  had  been  beaten  a  while.  Do  not 
allow  it  to  harden  before  pouring  into  buttered  pan.  Pecans,  English  walnuts, 
hickory  nuts  or  almonds  may  be  used. 


CREAM  SAUCE 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  swansdown  flour,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Melt  butter  in  blazer,  add 
flour,  stirring  until  smooth,  then  add  milk  slowly.  Cook  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  Recipe  may  be  doubled,  or  same  may  be  made  thicker  by 
using  more  flour.  This  sauce  may  be  used  in  a  number  of  chafing  dish  recipes 
as  for  creamed  chicken,  celery,  etc. 


CREAMED  OYSTERS 

Use  both  blazer  and  hot  water  pan.  Ingredients,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (more  if  milk  is  not  rich),  two  tablespoonsful  of 
swansdown  flour,  one  pint  oysters,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Scald  the  oysters 
in  their  own  liquor  and  drain.  Make  a  cream  of  the  butter,  milk  and  flour, 
while  it  thickens,  add  the  oysters.  As  soon  as  they  heat  thoroughly,  season 
and  serve  at  once  on  toast  or  crackers. 


OYSTER  STEW 

One  quart  of  oysters,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  slowly  oysters  with  their 
liquor,  then  the  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  cook  only  until  edges  of  oysters 
begin  to  curl,  then  serve  at  once.  Long  boiling  of  either  milk  or  oysters  will 
spoil  the  stew.    Catsup  or  sauce  may  be  added  if  desired. 

(     74     ) 


jfyjiCjia&e 


Bottled  by 

NU  GRAPE  BOTTLING  CO. 

705  2nd  Ave.,  N.  W. 

Phone  5527 


CREAMED  CELERY 

Make  cream  sauce  as  per  recipe.  Have  prepared  and  in  cold  water  one 
bunch  of  celery,  chopped  fine,  stir  into  sauce,  cook  until  tender,  over  hot 
water  pan.    Serve  on  hot  toast  or  crackers. 


CREAMED  ASPARAGUS 

One  can  of  asparagus  tips,  one  pint  rich  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  swans- 
down  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  salt  to  taste.  Make  cream  sauce,  stir  in 
asparagus,  bring  to  the  boil.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 


EGGS  SCRAMBLED  WITH  OLIVES 

Five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  cupful  of  milk,  one 
cupful  of  olives,  chopped  fine,  seasoning.  Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  place  in  blazer, 
stir  until  firm,  extinguish  flame,  add  olives  and  serve  at  once. 


CREAMED  CHICKEN 

Two  cupfuls  of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  chicken  stock, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  (more  if  stock  is 
omitted),  one  tablespoonful  of  swansdown  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a 
cream  sauce,  add  the  stock,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  chicken,  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  three  minutes  longer  and  serve.  If  desired  add  three-fourths 
cupful    of  chopped  pimentoes  at  the  last. 


SALMON 

Salmon  may  be  cooked  with  creamed  sauce,  or  it  may  be  simply  seasoned 
with  lemon  juice  and  salt,  heated  in  butter,  and  served  on  toasted  crackers. 


DRIED  BEEF  WITH  CREAM   SAUCE 

One-half  pound  of  dried  beef,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one-half  pint 
of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  swansdown  flour,  one  egg.  Melt  butter  in  blazer, 
add  beef.  Fry  until  brown,  then  add  milk.  Cream  flour  with  a  little  coJ4 
milk,  then  stir  it  in.    Add  beaten  egg,  stirring  constantly.    Serve  on  toast. 

(     75     ) 


WELCH    RAREBIT 

One-half  pound  of  cheese,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  beer  or  ale,  salt,  red 
pepper,  mustard  and  sauce  to  taste.  Have  cheese  cut  in  as  fine  pieces  as  pos- 
sible. Melt  butter  in  blazer,  over  hot  water  pan.  Stir  in  cheese  very  slowly, 
a  little  at  a  time.  If  added  too  fast  it  will  lump  or  curdle.  When  cheese  is  all 
added,  stirring  constantly,  pour  in  ale  very  slowly,  until  of  the  desired  con- 
sistency. Too  much  at  once  will  curdle  it.  If  it  is  too  thin  cook  a  little 
longer,  but  it  must  be  stirred  from  start  to  finish.  When  thick  enough,  add 
seasoning  as  desired,  pour  over  crackers  and  serve  at  once. 


SCOTCH  WOODCOCK 

For  six  persons  have  in  readiness  six  slices  of  toast,  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  of  swansdown  flour,  one  of  anchovy  paste  (can 
be  omitted),  one-half  pint  of  milk,  grain  of  cayenne  and  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Slice  the  eggs  on  a  platter  or  deep  dish  and  chop  up  fine  with  a  silver 
knife.  Put  the  butter  in  the  blazer  and  when  melted  and  bubbly,  add  the 
flour  and  stir  the  mixture  until  frothy,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Add 
the  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  all  the  while  with  the  back  of  the  bowl 
of  the  spoon,  not  the  edge.  When  it  boils  add  the  anchovy,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  a  moment,  add  the  eggs  and  cook  three  minutes.    Serve  on  the  toast. 


—  M   E  M   O  — 


(     76     ) 


FOR  SPECIALISTS 

SPIGEL-LEVIN,  Inc. 

Management  Sam'l  Spigel 


SANDWICHES 

"Things  which  in  hungry  mortals'  eyes  find  favor." 

SANDWICH   FILLING 

Grind    equal    parts    of    boiled    country   ham,    cheese,    sweet    pickles    and 
pimentoes  and  put  together  with  cooked  dressing.    If  too  sour  add  little  sugar. 

—MRS.  C.  A.  HOWARD. 


Use  bread  one  day  old ;  brown  bread  or  baker's  bread  make  the  best  sand- 
wiches. Some  kinds  of  box  biscuit  are  good  to  use  with  cheese  or  olive 
fillings.  Various  sandwich  fillings  are  as  follows:  (1)  Chopped  dates  and 
peanuts,  moistened  with  lemon  juice.  (2)  Chopped  figs  and  dates  or  raisins, 
with  English  walnuts,  hickory  nuts,  almonds,  pecans,  or  peanuts,  mixed  with 
meringue  or  Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  (3)  Olives,  chopped  fine,  with  lettuce  and 
Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  (4)  Pimentoes,  lettuce  and  Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  (5) 
Pimento  cheese,  lettuce  or  olives  and  Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  (6)  Cream 
cheese  grated,  with  pimentoes  or  olives,  lettuce  and  Gelfand's  mayonnaise. 
(7)  Lettuce  with  Gelfand's  mayonnaise.  (8)  Grated  cheese  and  chopped  nuts. 
Butter  the  bread.  (9)  Chopped  nuts  rolled  and  mixed  with  Gelfand's  mayon- 
naise or  cream.  (10)  Hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  and  mixed  with  Gelfand's 
mayonnaise,  lettuce,  pepper  and  celery  salt.  (11)  Minced  chicken  and  nuts 
chopped  fine,  mix  with  cream.  Use  white  or  brown  bread.  (12)  Minced 
tongue,  Gelfand's  mayonnaise,  lettuce  if  desired. 

To  keep  sandwiches  from  drying  out,  put  them  into  a  vessel  with  a  wet 
cloth  over  the  top,  then  cover  tight. 


MERINGUE  FOR  SANDWICH   FILLINGS 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  slowly  two  tablespoons- 
ful  sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon  juice,  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Nice  to  mix  with 
chopped  nuts  and  raisins,  dates  or  figs. 


ANOTHER    VARIETY   OF   SANDWICHES 

Make  sandwiches  of  either  white  or  brown  bread  twenty-four  hours  old. 
Cut  in  very  thin  even  slices,  then  cut  in  squares,  triangles,  or  stamp  with 

(     77     ) 


round  or  fanciful  shaped  cutters.  Do  not  spread  butter  or  filling  too  near 
the  edge  as  it  is  liable  to  soil  the  fingers  or  gloves.  Cream  the  butter  with 
a  wooden  spoon  to  make  it  spread  easier. 


CREAM    CHICKEN    SANDWICHES 

One  good-sized  chicken,  or  one  pint  of  chicken,  cut  with  sharp  scissors 
into  small  pieces.  The  same  quantity  of  pecans  (or  English  walnuts  or 
almonds,  but  pecans  are  best),  broken  into  small  pieces.  Stir  into  this  the 
following  cream  dressing:  One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  melt,  and  stir  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  and  let  brown  slightly,  then  pour  in  one  pint 
of  rich  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt  and 
parsley.  Use  enough  of  this  dressing  to  moisten  the  chicken  and  nuts 
thoroughly  but  do  not  get  it  too  soft.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread 
and  cut  in  any  desired  shape.    This  makes  enough  to  serve  thirty  people. 


TOMATO  ASPIC  SANDWICHES 

Make  some  tomato  aspic  with  gelatine  and  strained  tomato  juice.  Make 
like  any  ordinary  gelatine  using  the  juice  of  the  tomato,  salted  to  taste  and 
lemon  juice  if  liked,  with  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Pour  into  a  square  mould  that 
has  been  dipped  into  cold  water  and  let  harden.  When  ready  to  use,  cut 
into  squares;  cut  the  squares  into  slices  and  place  between  thin  slices  of 
bread  which  have  been  spread  with  mayonnaise  instead  of  butter.  Trim  into 
shape  and  serve  very  cold. 


HAM    AND   CHICKEN   SANDWICHES 

One-half  cupful  of  cold  ham,  one-half  cupful  of  cold  chicken  or  veal,  one 
teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  one  pimento,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Grind  the  meats  and  pimentoes  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Make  sandwiches  in  the  usual  way  with  lettuce  leaves 
between. 

CELERY   SANDWICHES 

Chop  crisp  celery  very  fine  and  mix  with  salad  dressing.  Spread  one 
piece  of  bread  with  butter,  the  other  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  mixture.  With 
a  sharp  knife  split  open  the  round  stems  of  celery  tips  and  put  them  between 
the  bread,  so  that  the  tips  will  just  show  on  the  edges.  Tie  with  narrow  light- 
green  ribbon. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     78     ) 


FOUNTAIN  DRUG  COMPANY 

300-302  Grandin  Road,  Virginia  Heights 
Phone  2793  Roanoke,  Virginia 


CANDIES 

"A  little  taffy  now  and  then 
Is   relished    by   the    best   of   men." 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

One-half  pound  of  chocolate,  one  scant  cup  of  karo  syrup,  four  cups 
of  sugar,  one  scant  cup  of  milk,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon 
of  vanilla,  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  Grate  chocolate  and  add  all  ingredients 
except  the  vanilla.  Cook  slowly  stirring  occasionally,  cook  until  it  makes 
a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  thick. 
Pour  at  once  into  well-greased  pan.  — MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


UNCOOKED   FONDANT 

One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  work  together,  white  of 
one  egg,  beaten  stiff,  add  together,  use  cherries,  coloring  or  any  shape 
desired.     Cover  with  chocolate.  — MRS.  SCHWINGER. 


ORANGE  AND  COCOANUT  CANDY 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  the  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  one  orange, 
and  enough  cold  water  to  thoroughly  moisten  the  sugar.  Let  this  come  to 
a  boil  then  add  one  half  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut.  Boil  until  it  stiffens  in 
cold  water,  take  from  fire  and  set  pan  in  cold  water  until  it  becomes  thick. 
Pour  on  plates  and  cut  in  squares.  — MRS.  SCHWINGER. 


BROWN    SUGAR    CANDY 


Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  box  of  dromedary  cocoanut,  put  in  at 
the  beginning  and  cooked  in  it,  enough  rick  milk  (about  a  scant  half-cup)  to 
moisten  well,  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one-fourth  pound  of 
butter.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water  and  then  beat  thoroughly. 
When  nearly  cold  cut  in  squares.  — MRS.  R.  G.  DALBY. 

(     79     ) 


SEA   FOAM 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Boil  until  it  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Beat  white  of  one  egg  until  very  stiff, 
pour  boiling  syrup  on  egg,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  constantly,  when  a 
little  stiff  add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  add  one  cup  of  nuts  when  mixture 
will  stand  alone.     Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  dish— MRS.  SCHWINGER. 


FRENCH   CREAM   CANDY 

Take  whites  of  two  eggs,  half  as  much  water.  Do  not  beat  eggs.  Stir 
in  powdered  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  handle,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Roll 
into  small  balls  and  press  one-half  English  walnut  on  each  side.  This  cream 
may  be  used  for  a  great  variety  of  candies  by  using  nuts,  fruits,  chocolate 
or  any  flavoring  or  coloring  desired  or  by  shaping.    —MRS.  SCHWINGER. 


CHOCOLATE  MILK  FUDGE 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  squares  of  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Melt  butter  in  milk,  add  chocolate,  melt,  then  add  sugar,  cook  slowly  until 
sugar  dissolves,  cook  to  soft  ball  stage,  then  let  stand  until  cool.  Add  vanilla 
and  beat  until  you  can  knead  it.  Pour  out  in  buttered  pan  and  cut  into 
squares.  —ANNA  COOPER. 


AFTER    DINNER    MINTS 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  karo,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  butter  size  of  hickory  nut.  Let  dissolve 
and  boil  to  a  soft  ball  dropped  in  cold  water,  flavor,  beat  and  drop  on  waxed 
paper.    Put  pan  in  hot  water  to  keep  from  hardening  before  you  can  drop. 

—MRS.  T.  B.  KEMPER. 


FUDGE 

Three  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  syrup,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
scant  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut, 
three  tablespoons  of  chocolate  or  cocoa,  flavor  with  vanilla,  one  cup  of  nuts 
after  you  have  beaten  well.  —MRS.  NORA  N.  WOOD. 


DIVINITY 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  thick  karo  corn  syrup,  one- 
half  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
chopped  nuts.  Have  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Boil  sugar,  water  and  syrup  until  it 
will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Dip  out  one  cup  of  the 
syrup  and  pour  very  slowly  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beating  all  the 
while.  In  the  mean  time,  the  rest  of  the  syrup  must  be  boiling  until  it  cracks 
like  glass  in  cold  water  being  careful  not  to  burn.  When  the  first  cup  of 
sugar  is  beaten  into  the  whites,  add  the  remainder  slowly,  beating  rapidly. 
When  all  the  syrup  is  beaten  in  add  vanilla  and  nuts,  pour  into  a  buttered 
pan.  If  syrup  cooks  too  long  before  first  cup  is  poured  off,  candy  will  not 
be  creamy.     If  whole  thing  does  not  boil  long  enough,  candy  will  not  harden. 

(     80     ) 


McGLINTOCK-RALLS  SHOP 

317  Campbell  Avenue,  West 

DRESSMAKERS— MILLINERS 

No  Parking  Restrictions  in  our  Block 


ITALIAN   CREAM   CANDY 

Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water,  then 
remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  it  becomes  creamy  and  add  one-half  cup  of 
nut  meats. 


BUTTER    SCOTCH 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,   one  dessertspoon  of  vinegar, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.    Boil  about  twenty  minutes.    Flavor  if  desired. 


FUDGE 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk  or  one  half  cream  and 
milk,  one-fourth  cake  of  chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Mix  the 
ingredients  and  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried 
in  cold  water.  Before  removing  from  fire  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  When 
done  beat  rapidly  until  creamy;  add  chopped  nuts  if  desired.  Pour  on 
buttered  plates  and  cut  into  squares. 


COCOANUT    CANDY 

Five  cups  of  white  sugar  with  one  cup  of  new  milk  or  cream.  Boil  ten 
minutes,  add  two  medium  sized  cocoanuts,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer  until 
thick.    Beat  until  cool  and  drop  on  buttered  dish  or  paper. 


CRYSTALLIZED    GRAPE    FRUIT 

Wash  grape  fruit,  take  out  pulp,  cut  rind  with  scissors  in  short  strips, 
put  on  in  cold  water  to  boil  thirty  minutes,  boil  thirty  minutes  after  it  begins 
to  boil,  do  this  three  times,  drain  off  the  water  each  time  after  boiling.  Then 
take  the  rind  and  one  pound  of  sugar,  put  on  fire  and  let  simmer  until  the 
sugar  is  absorbed,  take  off,  lay  the  rind  in  dish,  rind  next  to  the  dish,  inside 
out,  let  cool,  roll  in  granulated  sugar  and  put  in  glass  jars  to  keep. 

(     81     ) 


NOTICE  TO  HOUSEWIVES 

We  have  several  hundred  satisfied  customers  in  this  city  and 
can  give  the  names  on  request 

COOK  STOVES,  HOT  AIR  FURNACES,  AND  HEATERS 

RELINED  WITH  PLIBRICO  JOINTLESS 

FIRE  BRICK 

J.    J.    BOWER 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BOILERMAKER 
Phone  3721  1022  Fifth  Avenue,  N.  W.,  Roanoke,  Va. 


AFTER    DINNER    MINTS 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  a  pinch  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Set  off  and  let 
cool  until  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  it,  then  beat  until  creamy  and  work 
until  smooth.  Flavor  to  taste  with  oil  of  peppermint.  With  the  hands  mould 
into  small  cones,  giving  them  a  slight  twist  on  top.  For  a  variety  tint  some 
of  the  fondant  light  green  or  light  pink  and  flavor  delicately  with  the  oil 
of  wintergreen. 


TAFFY 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  large  piece  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  hot  water.  Cook  until  it 
hardens  in  cold  water,  turn  out  on  buttered  platters  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pull  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  and  cut  to  pieces. 


PEANUT    PENOCHE 
(Original) 

Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  peanut  butter.  Cook  until  it  makes  a 
soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Beat  until  creamy,  pour  into  buttered  pan  and  cut 
into  squares. 

—  M   E  M   O  — 


(     82     ) 


C.  S.  Reid 


R.  W.  Cutshall 


Reid  (Bj^tshall 

/^mmerceSbkm 
\jome  ^uave 

"Sweetest  Place  is  Home,  Sweet  Home — Let  us  Furnish  It" 
Telephone  336 


BEVERAGES 


"Drink,  pretty  creature,   drink." 


BOILED  COFFEE 

Use  coffee  mixed  in  proportion  of  one-third  Mocha  and  two-thirds  Java. 
Buy  whole  grains,  and  grind  as  needed.  Take  one  large  tablespoon  of  coffee 
for  each  cup,  and  allow  one  for  the  pot.  Use  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg, 
and  wet  with  cold  water.  Allow  one  coffee  cup  of  boiling  water  for  each 
cup  of  coffee  desired.  Stop  up  spout  with  a  cloth  to  retain  flavor.  Let  boil 
up  well  two  or  three  times  (stirring  down  each  time).  Then  pour  in  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  set  back  on  the  stove  to  settle.  Pour  this  from  the 
grounds  into  another  pot  which  has  been  heated  with  boiling  water.  Coffee 
is  not  spoiled  by  being  kept  one  or  two  hours  provided  the  grounds  are  re- 
moved and  the  coffee  is  kept  hot  but  not  boiling. 


CHOCOLATE 

For  each  cup  of  the  beverage  required  use  one  cup  of  new  milk,  a  good 
teaspoon  of  powdered  chocolate,  and  a  good  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Scald  milk 
in  a  double  boiler;  mix  chocolate  and  sugar  together  until  thoroughly  blended, 
then  mix  into  a  paste  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
smooth  and  glossy,  then  stir  into  the  hot  milk  and  cook  well  together.  Strain 
and  add  a  little  vanilla.  Put  a  teaspoon  of  whipped  cream  on  the  top  of 
each  cup  when  serving  and  have  the  chocolate  pot  heated  with  hot  water 
before  pouring  the  chocolate  in. 


EGG   CHOCOLATE 

To  one  pint  of  milk  add  three  rounding  tablespoons  of  shaved   Baker's 
chocolate,  the  same  amount  of  sugar  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.     Let  cook  for 

(     83     ) 


ten  minutes  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Allow  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
to  each  pint  of  milk,  beat  the  yolk,  take  the  chocolate  from  the  fire  and  pour 
gradually  over  the  egg  and  beat  hard  for  several  minutes.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  marshmallows,  or  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar  and  use  instead  of  the  cream. 


ICED  TEA 


In  the  first  place,  you  must  have  good  tea  if  a  savory  brew  is  to  be 
made.  The  teapot  (which  should  be  china  or  earthenware)  must  be  thorough- 
ly scalded  before  the  dry  tea,  using  a  level  teaspoonful  for  each  cup  of  water 
and  one  for  the  pot,  and  less  when  many  cups  are  to  be  made,  is  put  into  it. 
The  water  must  be  fresh  and  just  boiling.  Water  that  boils  any  length  of 
time  becomes  insipid.  Let  the  infusion  brew  on  the  back  of  the  range  for 
three  or  four  minutes,  then  strain,  sweeten  to  taste  and  cool.  The  flavor  of 
iced  tea  is  always  much  finer  if  chilled  quickly.  Serve  in  tea  glasses  half 
filled  with  crushed  ice  and  garnish  with  a  slice  of  lemon  or  a  sprig  of  mint. 
The  tea  should  always  be  cold  enough  to  frost  the  glasses  when  served. 


GRAPE   JUICE 


Stem  the  grapes,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  just  long  enough  for 
the  skins  to  crack  open,  then  squeeze  the  juice  out,  strain,  measure  and  put 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  juice.  Put  on  fire  and  let  boil  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.    Bottle  and  seal  while  hot. 


PUNCH 


Two  dozen  lemons,  one  dozen  oranges,  three  quarts  grape  juice,  five  pints 
of  apollinaris,  one  gallon  of  water,  sweeten  to  taste.  Serves  sixty  people. 
Any  other  fruit  juice  may  be  added. 


DANDELION    WINE 


One  gallon  of  the  bloom  and  one  handful  of  the  root  washed  clean,  three 
lemons,  two  oranges  sliced,  and  a  handful  of  raisins.  Pour  one  gallon  of 
boiling  water  over  this  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Strain  and  add 
three  pounds  of  sugar.  Let  stand  and  ferment  for  a  week  or  ten  days  and 
then  strain  and  bottle. 


STRAWBERRY   OR    BLACKBERRY   ACID 


Six  quarts  of  berries,  two  and  one-half  ounces  tartaric  acid,  two  quarts 
of  water.  Dissolve  acid  in  the  water  and  pour  over  the  berries.  Let  stand 
forty-eight  hours  and  strain  without  bruising  the  berries.     To  every  pint  of 

(     84     ) 


Can  YOU  live  without  eating 

GROCERIES  COST  YOU  LESS 

Phone  for  your  convenience — Delivery  to  your  kitchen  table 
Look  for  the  sign,  QUALITY  SERVICE  STORES 


this  juice  add  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar.     Bottle  and  keep   in  a 
cool  place.    Dilute  with  water  when  served.     This  makes  about  ten  pints. 


BLACKBERRY    WINE 

Measure  the  berries  and  bruise  them,  to  every  gallon  of  berries  add  one 
quart  boiling  water,  let  the  mixture  stand  twenty-four  hours  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Strain  into  a  cask  adding  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of 
liquid.  Cork  the  cask  tightly  and  let  it  stand  until  November  when  it  will 
be  ready  to  draw  off  ready  for  use. 


BLACKBERRY  ACID 

Bruise  a  water  bucket  of  berries  and  pour  over  them,  one  and  one-half 
gallons  of  boiling  water.  Let  this  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Press  out  the 
juice,  to  every  three  pints  put  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  five  ounces  of  tar- 
taric acid,  let  it  stand  a  week,  then  strain  and  bottle  it  and  it  is  ready  for 
use.  This  is  a  delicious  drink.  Put  one  quarter  of  glass  of  acid,  fill  the  glass 
with  ice  water,  sweeten  to  taste.    Very  good. 


PINEAPPLE   LEMONADE 

Boil  one  pint  of  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar  for  ten  minutes  add  one  can 
of  grated  pineapple  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  cool,  strain  and  add  one 
quart  of  ice  water. 


GRAPE  JUICE 

Pick  grapes,  rejecting  all  unsound  ones,  put  in  porcelain  or  aluminum 
kettle  with  one  pint  of  water,  heat  slowly,  cook  until  all  the  juice  is  out. 
Strain  is  a  jelly  bag.  Return  to  the  kettle  adding  one  pint  of  sugar  to  four 
pints  juice,  let  come  to  a  boil.     Skim,  then  bottle  and  seal  while  hot. 


JELLY  PUNCH 

Three  quarts  currant  jelly,  one  quart  gooseberry  jelly,  one  quart  straw- 
berry preserves,  six  oranges,  four  lemons,  one-half  gallon  of  canned  cherries. 

(     85     ) 


Dissolve  jelly  in  two  gallons  of  cold  water  and  strain  all  of  the  ingredients 
through  a  cloth  and  sweeten  and  dilute  to  taste.    This  is  delicious. 


RASPBERRY   VINEGAR 

Pour  over  one  gallon  of  berries  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  let  stand  all 
night,  then  strain  out  juice  and  put  pint  of  sugar  to  pint  of  juice;  boil  a  few 
minutes  and  skim.  Cork  up  tightly.  Dilute  with  ice  water  when  ready  to 
serve. 


STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL 

One  pint  of  strawberries,  four  oranges,  four  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar. 
Slice  the  strawberries  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges  over  them.  Set 
on  ice  to  thoroughly  mix  and  chill.  At  serving  time  put  in  glasses  or  fruit 
cups;  add  a  spoonful  of  sugar  to  each. 


CHERRY  WINE 

To  one  gallon  of  cherry  juice  put  four  pounds  of  white  sugar.     Let  fer- 
ment well,  pour  off,  strain.    Let  stand  a  few  days;  then  bottle. 


BLACKBERRY  WINE 

To  every  gallon  of  berries,  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  let  stand 
thirty-six  hours  then  strain  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  put  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  let  stand  and  work  off  well,  filling  the  jars  up  every  morning  with 
some  kept  for  that.  Then  cork  lightly  and  let  stand  for  two  or  three  months. 
Then  strain  off  again  and  to  every  gallon  of  wine  add  one  pound  of  sugar 
dissolved  well,  and  bottle  and  seal.  Other  wines  may  be  made  by  the  same 
recipe  except  for  rhubarb,  apple  and  peach  must  have  boiling  water  to  cover 
fruit  and  let  stand  longer  to  get  soft. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     86     ) 


Loans  Negotiated  Real  Estate  Sold  at  Auction 

BOSWELL  REALTY  CO.,  Inc. 

Real  Estate,  Rental  and  Fire  Insurance  Agents 
P.  O.  Box  562 
Office  Rooms  108-9-10-11  First  National  Bank  Building 


MISCELLANEOUS 

"Take  every  creature  of  every  kind." 
HARD   SOAP 

Remove  cover  from  can  of  Red  Seal  lye,  cut  out  sifting  top  and  empty 
contents  into  a  stone  crock  or  porcelain  vessel.  Add  three  ounces  of  powdered 
borax  and  three  and  one-half  pints  cold  water;  stir  until  all  is  dissolved, 
and  allow  solution  to  cool  until  it  is  lukewarm.  In  another  vessel  (porcelain) 
melt  five  and  one-half  pounds  of  strained  grease,  lard  or  tallow,  after  it  has 
cooled  to  temperature  of  lye  solution,  pour  the  latter  slowly  into  the  melted 
grease  (never  pour  grease  into  the  lye)  and  keep  stirring  until  it  is  well  and 
evenly  mixed.  Pour  into  a  suitable  mould,  lined  with  heavy  paper,  allowing 
it  to  cool  in  a  warm  room.  After  standing  twenty-four  hours  cut  in  blocks. 
If  it  separates  put  all  back  into  kettle,  add  one-half  pint  of  water,  place  on 
the  stove  and  let  boil  until  it  comes  together,  then  pour  into  mould. 


PACKED   BUTTER 


One  quart  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water,  one-half  teacup  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  of  saltpetre.  Boil  and  skim  and  when  cold  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Wrap  each  roll  of  butter  in  a  cloth  and  put  a  weight  on  to  hold  down  under 
water. 


TO    KEEP    EGGS 


To  one  quart  bottle  of  water-glass  put  ten  quarts  of  water,  boiled  and 
cooled.  Put  in  stone  jar  and  put  in  eggs,  and  keep  covered,  turn  every  few 
days.  Will  keep  fresh  indefinitely  if  absolutely  fresh  when  put  in  the 
solution. 


FOR    BURNS 


Mix  butter  or  lard  with  lime  water  and  spread  thickly  over  the  burned 
part. 

(     87     ) 


TO    DRIVE    AWAY    ANTS 

Sprinkle  oil  of  sassafras  around  the  infested  places. 

TO  CLEAN    MARBLE 

When  marble  is  discolored  by  grease  or  any  stain,  mix  two  parts  of 
common  washing-soda  with  one  part  of  chalk  and  one  of  ground  pumice- 
stone.  Have  all  finely  powdered  and  mix  into  a  paste  with  water.  Rub  it 
well  over  the  marble  and  a  few  hours  later  wash  off  with  plain  soap  and 
water. 


THROAT  GARGLE 

To  one-half  pint  of  tepid  water  put  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  twenty 
drops  of  carbolic  acid.  Keep  the  water  where  it  will  be  warm  and  gargle 
the  throat  with  it  every  half  hour. 


POISON   OAK  CURE 

Bathe  the   affected  parts,  long  and  well,   in  sulphur  and   cream,  mixed 
rather  thick;  in  half  an  hour  bathe  well  with  salt  water.    Repeat  twice  a  day. 


A  GOOD   LINIMENT 

To  one  part  oil  of  wintergreen  add  two  parts  of  alcohol  and  shake  well, 
keep  tightly  corked.  This  is  excellent  for  rheumatism,  sprains,  lame  back 
or  where  overexertion  has  caused  stiffness  of  the  muscles.  Rub  until  the 
skin  is  in  a  perfect  glow. 


AMOUNT    REQUIRED    FOR    SERVING    FIFTY    PLATES 

One  twenty  pound  turkey. 

Four  large  chickens  for  salad,  five  bunches  of  celery  or  one  small  hard 
head  of  cabbage,  one-fourth  pound  of  melted  butter,  one-half  pound  of  al- 
monds, one-half  pound  of  English  walnuts,  three  pints  of  dressing;  three 
heads  of  lettuce  for  serving  salad. 

Three  loaves  of  bread  for  sandwiches. 

Six  pints  of  flour  for  rolls. 

Two  pounds  of  crackers. 

Three  pints  olives. 

One  pound  of  coffee. 

One  quart  of  cream  for  coffee. 

Two  and  one-half  gallons  of  ice  cream. 

One  large  twelve  egg  white  cake  cut  in  blocks,  or  two,  baked  in  layers. 

(     88     ) 


Dress  Fabrics,  Women's  and  Children's  Wearing  Apparel 
and  Accessories  assembled  from  most  every  part  of  the  world. 


Two  pounds  of  shelled  almonds  salted. 
Two  pounds  of  mints. 


GRAPE  JUICE 

Place  two  cups  of  whole  grapes  in  a  half  gallon  fruit  jar  with  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Fill  with  boiling  water  and  seal.  See  that  the  jar  is  heated  that  the 
water  will  not  break  it.  —MRS.  W.  N.  SAUNDERS. 


FOR  CLEANING  CARPETS  AND  RUGS 

5  cents  worth  of  saltpeter,  5  cents  worth  of  turpentine,  5  cents  worth  of 
salt,  5  cents  worth  of  soda,  5  cents  worth  of  borax,  1  large  cake  of  ivory  soap. 

Cooking — Cut  up  ivory  soap,  use  all  of  the  borax,  1  spoonful  of  saltpeter, 
1  of  turpentine,  2  of  soda,  2  of  salt,  and  cook  until  soap  dissolves.  Use  hot 
with  brush  and  dry  cloth.  This  makes  4  gallons  of  fluid.  For  mattings  and 
Crex  rugs  leave  out  soda.    Use  many  cloths  in  wiping. 

—MRS.  W.  N.  SAUNDERS. 


ESCALLOPED  CELERY 

One  large  stalk  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces  boiled  until  tender,  lib. 
almonds  blanched  and  cut  fine,  butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  one  layer  of  celery 
and  one  of  nuts,  sprinkle  each  layer  of  celery  and  nuts  with  cracker  crumbs, 
butter  and  salt,  and  pour  on  enough  sweet  milk  to  bake  but  not  to  make  it 
too  soft.    Bake  until  browned.    This  amount  will  serve  eight  persons. 

—MRS.  C.  H.  HAGENBECH. 


TO  SERVE  FIFTY  PERSONS 

Two  pounds  of  mints;   two  pounds  of  salted  almonds;   two  and  one-half 
gallons  of  ice  cream;  one  pound  of  coffee. 


PEELING  ORANGES 

Immersing  oranges  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes  before  peeling  will 
make  the  skin  come  off  very  easily,  removing  all  the  white  skin  with  it. 

(     89     ) 


MAKING  SOUP 

In  cooking  meat  for  soup  the  object  is  to  extract  the  juices  and  not  to 
retain  them.  Put  the  meat  or  soup  bone  into  a  kettle  and  cook  at  a  low 
temperature  to  be  sure  of  getting  the  flavor  and  stimulating  the  elements. 
The  meat  left  still  retains  nutritive  value,  being  almost  all  tissue  building 
material.    Use  this  to  make  ragouts  and  stews. 


A  USEFUL  PASTRY  HINT 

For  custard  pies,  grease  outside  of  pie  pan  and  bake  pastry  crust  on  pan 
upside  down.  Pierce  many  times  with  fork  before  baking  to  prevent  blister- 
ing. Remove  crust  and  place  on  inside  of  pie  pan,  and  fill  with  any  desired 
pie  filling  or  custard.    Add  meringue  and  brown.    This  insures  a  crisp  pastry. 


One  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  cupful  of  molasses. 
One-fourth  teaspoonful  salt  to  four  cupfuls  of  custard. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  salt  to  four  cupfuls  of  water. 
One-fourth  teaspoonful  salt  to  one  cupful  white  sauce. 
One-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper  to  one  cupful  of  white  sauce. 
One  cupful  liquid  to  two  cupfuls  of  flour  for  muffins. 
One  cupful  liquid  to  three  cupfuls  flour  for  bread. 
One  cupful  liquid  to  one  cupful  flour  for  batters. 
One  teaspoonful  soda  to  one  pint  sour  milk. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

All  measurements  level  full.    One  egg  weighs  two  ounces;  six  whites,  six 
ounces. 

Two  cupfuls  lard  make  one  pound. 

Two  cupfuls  butter  make  one  pound. 

Four  cupfuls  pastry  flour  make  one  pound. 

Three  and  seven-eights  cupfuls  entire  wheat  flour  make  one  pound. 

Four  and  one-half  cupfuls  Graham  flour  make  one  pound. 

Four  and  one-third  cupfuls  coffee  make  one  pound. 

Two  cupfuls  granulated  sugar  make  one  pound. 

Two  and  two-thirds  cornmeal  make  one  pound. 

Two  and  two-thirds  sugar  make  one  pound. 

Two  cupfuls  chopped  meat  make  one  pound. 

One  and  seven-eights  cupfuls  rice  make  one  pound. 

Two  cupfuls  raisins  (packed),  make  one  pound. 

(     90     ) 


TRADE  WITH  JAMISON 

And  Bank  the  Difference — 56  Stores  for  Your  Convenience 
A  STORE  IN  EVERY  NEIGHBORHOOD 


Two  and  one-quarter  cupfuls  currants  make  one  pound. 

Two  cupfuls  stale  bread  crumbs  make  one  pound. 

Eight  large  eggs  make  one  pound. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  butter  make  one  ounce. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  flour  make  one  ounce. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder  make  half  ounce. 

Three  teaspoonfuls  make  one  tablespoonful. 

Fourteen  tablespoonfuls  liquid  make  one  cupful. 

Sixteen  tablespoonfuls  dry  ingredients  make  one  cupful. 

TO  BUTTER  CRUMBS 

Use  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  to  one  cupful  of  crumbs.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  stir  in  the  crumbs  lightly  with  a  fork  and  continue  stir- 
ring until  well  mixed. 


HELPFUL  HINTS 

Try  using  grapefruit  juice  when  making  mayonnaise.    It  is  a  good  change. 

Heat  your  knife  before  cutting  sandwich  bread. 

Cocoanut  is  much  easier  prepared  if  allowed  to  become  almost  hot  in  the 
oven  before  breaking  it. 

Keep  a  bottle  of  plain  tincture  of  iron  on  your  medicine  shelf.     This  is 
excellent  for  painting  burns. 

A  little  sugar  added  to  oil  mayonnaise  improves  the  flavor. 

Cake  frosting  can  be  made  better  if  the  egg  whites  are  not  beaten.     Sim- 
ply pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  plain  whites. 

When  baking  fruit  or  loaf  cakes,  a  pan  of  water  placed  inside  the  oven 
will  provide  proper  moisture. 

To  soften  the  hands,  for  entire  bath,  use  corn-meal  instead  of  soap. 

Salt  and  vinegar  used  together  will  polish  brass  and  copper  so  that  they 
shine  like  new. 

(     91     ) 


SUBSTITUTE  FOR  WHIPPED  CREAM 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  cupful 
sweet  milk,  three  egg  whites,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  Franklin  sugar, 
pinch  of  salt.  Blend  flour  and  butter.  Stir  till  smooth.  Add  milk,  beat  eggs, 
sugar  and  salt.    Put  in  whites  after  taken  from  stove. 


SALTED  ALMONDS 

Blanch  almonds  by  putting  into  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Remove 
almonds,  dry  well  and  brown  in  heated  olive  oil  or  butter  on  top  of  stove  or  in 
oven.  Take  from  fire  when  very  light  brown,  as  they  continue  to  color  after 
removing  from  pan.    Drain  well  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


Do  not  try  to  brown  meringue  in  a  scorching  hot  oven.    A  moderate  oven 
is  better  as  it  does  not  cause  the  meringue  to  fall  or  to  become  tough. 


LUNCHEON  DISH 

Take  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  which  has  been  mixed  with  cream  or  but- 
ter. Put  slices  together  (cheese  side  in)  roll  in  cornmeal  or  flour  and  fry  in 
any  fat.    Lay  on  platter  and  cover  with  scrambled  eggs.     Serve  very  hot. 

—MRS.  W.  H.  CARROLL. 


TO  KEEP  SAUSAGE 

To  keep  sausage,  grind  and  season  as  usual,  pack  in  stone  jars  and  cook 
inside  of  stove  for  three  hours.  When  cool  cover  securely  and  put  away. 
Will  keep  until  summer.  —MISS  ANNA  COOPER. 


MEMO  — 


(     92     ) 


PRESERVES  AND  MARMALADE 

"Men  make  wealth  and  women  preserve  it." 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

Wash,  pick  over,  and  hull  berries.  Put  into  preserving  kettle,  and  add 
equal  measure  of  sugar.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  and  let  boil  until  fruit  juice 
will  jell  when  dropped  into  a  saucer  and  cooled.  Fill  in  sterilized  jars  and 
seal. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Peel  and  slice,  very  thinly,  three  oranges;  chop  or  grind  peel  very  fine,  and 
pour  over  it  ten  glasses  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes  and  let  it  stand  another  twenty-four  hours.  On  the 
third  day,  cook  to  a  very  thin  jelly.    It  will  make  six  glasses. 


CURRANT  JELLY 

Wash  currants  and  put  on  stove  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover,  and 
cook  until  soft.  Then  strain  through  cloth.  Put  juice  on  stove  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Then  add  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar  to  each  cupful  of  juice  and 
boil  ten  minutes  longer.     Pour  into  glasses  and  seal  with  parafin. 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

Select  nice,  large  berries,  not  too  ripe;  one  and  one-half  pints  granulated 
sugar  to  one  pint  of  berries.  Put  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of  water  on  stove 
and  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  drop  the  berries  in  carefully;  boil  ten  minutes; 
test  syrup  by  dropping  on  saucer  a  few  drops.  If  it  remains  real  firm,  it  is 
done;  if  not,  it  requires  longer  boiling. 


PEACH   MARMALADE 

Select  and  grind  the  peaches.  For  every  pound  of  fruit,  put  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Let  stand  over  night,  but  do  not  put  any  water  on  it.  By  morning 
syrup  has  formed.  Put  on  and  let  cook  until  syrup  does  not  form  on  saucer. 
Stir  constantly. 


GINGER   PEAR   CONSERVE 

Eight  pounds  pears  cut  into  small  cubes;  six  pounds  sugar;  half  pound 
candied  ginger  root;  half  pound  citron  cut  into  small  pieces,  two  lemons. 
Peel  the  lemons  lengthwise,  and  cut  the  rind  into  very  thin  strips.  Cut 
lemons,  and  cook  in  a  little  water  until  tender.  Cook  pears,  sugar,  sliced 
ginger,  and  citron  for  one  hour.  Then  add  the  lemon  and  cook  for  one  hour 
longer.     Stir  while  cooking,  and  put  in  jars  while  hot. 


PEACH   CONSERVE 

Grind  five  pounds  of  peaches  in  food  chopper  and  mix  with  five  pounds  of 
sugar.  Put  on  stove  and  cook  slowly  with  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins  ground 
in  food  chopper  and  twenty-five  cents  worth  of  conserved  ginger.  Let  come 
to  a  boil  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes.  Then  add  three-fourths  pound  pecans 
finely  chopped,  three  oranges  run  through  food  chopper,  one  can  of  grated 
pineapple,  and  boil  five  minutes,  and  can. 

(     93     ) 


PEACH   PRESERVES 

For  every  pound  of  fruit,  peeled  and  cut  in  halves,  allow  three-fourths  of 
a  pound  of  sugar;  put  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  sugar  over  it,  and  let  stand 
till  morning.  In  the  morning,  pour  the  syrup  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil. 
Do  not  put  in  any  water.  As  soon  as  syrup  boils,  pour  fruit  into  it  and  cook 
until  tender.  Place  in  glass  jars  and  seal.  Pears  can  be  preserved  in  this 
way,  too. 


HOW  TO  PRESERVE  A  HUSBAND 

Be  careful  of  your  selection.  When  decided  upon,  give  your  entire  atten- 
tion and  thought  to  preparation  for  domestic  use.  Some  insist  on  keeping 
them  in  a  pickle,  while  others  are  constantly  getting  them  in  hot  water.  This 
only  makes  them  sour,  hard,  and  sometimes  bitter.  Even  poor  varieties  may 
be  made  sweet,  tender  and  good  by  garnishing  them  with  smiles  and  flavoring 
with  kisses  to  taste.  Then  wrap  them  in  a  mantel  of  charity,  keep  warm 
with  a  steady  fire  of  domestic  devotion.  When  thus  prepared  they  will  keep 
for  years. 


RHUBARB  CONSERVE 

Three  quarts  of  rhubarb,  cut  in  pieces;  three  quarts  Franklin  cane  sugar; 
ten  cents  worth  almonds  cut  in  pieces;  juice  of  two  oranges  and  one  lemon. 
Peel  the  yellow  off  lemon  and  put  through  meat  grinder,  also  the  orange  peel 
and  one  pound  raisins.  Cook  all  together  until  thick.  This  amount  should 
make  eighteen  glasses. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Six  oranges,  three  lemons,  six  pounds  sugar,  five  quarts  water.  Remove 
seeds  and  grind  oranges  and  lemons  in  food  chopper.  Pour  over  them  the 
five  quarts  of  water  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Boil  two  hours,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  moderately  thick.  This  will  make  twelve  glasses 
of  marmalade. 

—  MEMO  — 


(     94     ) 


DEFINITION  OF  TERMS  USED 
IN  COOKING 

USED   IN   COOKERY 

A  la  Creole — Cooked  with  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers. 

A  la  Printaniere — A  soup  or  stew  served  with  young  spring  vegetables. 

Aspic — A  savory  jelly  for  meats,  fish,  vegetables  and  salads.  Frequently  used 
as  a  garnish. 

Au  Gratin — Cooked  with  browned  crumbs  and  usually  with  grated  cheese. 

Bain-marie — A  vessel  containing  hot  water  in  which  other  vessels  containing 
foods  are  placed  to  keep  hot  without  further  cooking.  Literally  a 
double  boiler  on  a  large  scale. 

Bechamel — A  rich  white  sauce  made  with  stock,  milk  or  cream. 

Bisque — A  thick  white  sauce  or  soup  generally  made  from  shellfish. 

Blanch — To  whiten  by  scalding. 

Bouillon — A  meat  broth. 

Bombe — Moulded  ices  having  the  outside  one  variety  and  the  centre  another. 

Bouquet  of  Herbs — A  bunch  of  various  flavoring  herbs,  used  for  soups  or 
stews. 

Braise — To  cook  in  a  closely  covered  stewpan  with  vegetables,  having  a  gen- 
tle heat,  that  neither  flavor  nor  juices  are  lost  by  evaporation. 

Canape — A  finger  strip  of  bread  or  toast  spread  with  a  savory  compound, 
usually  either  fish  or  egg,  daintily  garnished  and  served  as  an  appetizer 
before  lunch  or  dinner. 

Croustades — Small  pieces  of  bread  fried  or  toasted.  Used  as  a  garnish  for 
minced  or  hashed  meat. 

En  Brochette — Small  portions  of  meat,  such  as  chicken  livers,  cooked  with 
bacon  on  a  skewer. 

Entree — A  savory  made  dish  served  as  a  course  itself,  or  between  heavier 
courses,  at  dinner. 

Farci — Stuffed. 

Fondue — Cheese  and  eggs  cooked  together. 

Frappe — Half  frozen. 

Glace — Glazed  over.  In  savory  dishes  with  meatstock,  boiled  down  to  a 
glaze;  in  sweet  cookery,  iced  or  brushed  over  with  white  of  egg. 

Hors-d'  oeuvres — Small  dishes  served  during  the  first  course  of  a  dinner. 

Jardiniere — Mixed  vegetables. 

Lard — To  insert  strips  of  fat  pork  or  bacon  in  meats  deficient  in  fat,  with  a 
larding  needle. 

(     95     ) 


Macedoine — A  mixture  of  vegetables  or  fruits. 

Marinate — To  make  savory  in  a  mixture  of  seasonings:  oil  and  vinegar,  or 
oil  and  lemon  juice. 

Meringue — White  of  egg  and  sugar  beaten  together. 

Mousse — May  be  savory  or  sweet.  A  light,  frothy  mixture  thickened  with 
gelatine,  whipped  with  a  whisk  till  spongy  in  texture  and  then  packed 
in  ice  and  salt  for  three  or  four  hours. 

Mulligatawny — A  rich  soup  flavored  with  curry. 

Pate — A  small  pastry  shell,  usually  made  from  puff  paste.  May  contain  either 
a  sweet  or  savory  filling. 

Puree — Meats,  vegetables,  fish,  etc.,  cooked  in  liquid  till  tender,  then  passed 
through  a  sieve. 

Roux — A  cooked  mixture  of  butter  and  flour  for  thickening  soups,  sauces  and 
gravies. 

Salmi — A  rich  stew  of  game,  half  roasted  and  then  cut  up  and  cooked  in  a 
sauce. 

Saute — To  cook  till  brown  in  a  shallow  pan  with  a  little  fat. 

Souffle — Puffed  up  and  made  light  by  use  of  well-beaten  eggs.  May  be  savory 
or  sweet. 

Val-au-vent — A  very  light  case  of  puff  paste  in  which  savories  or  sweets  may 
be  served. 

—  M   E  M   O  — 


!i6     ) 


RECIPES  FOR  THE  SICK 

The  food  eaten  by  a  sick  person  has  in  many  cases  as  much  to  do  with 
rapid  recovery  as  have  drugs.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  palate  is 
more  sensitive  in  sickness  than  in  health,  both  to  seasoning  and  temperatures, 
so  that  less  seasoning  and  more  moderate  degrees  of  heat  and  cold  must  be 
observed. 

Daintiness  in  serving  greatly  influences  the  appetite  of  the  patient,  and, 
therefore,  for  this  reason  it  is  preferable  to  serve  small  portions  and  present 
the  meal  by  courses  rather  than  place  all  on  the  tray  at  one  time.  Have  all 
hot  beverages  brought  to  the  door  of  the  sick  room  in  a  covered  pitcher,  then 
poured  into  the  cup,  thus  avoiding  the  danger  of  spilling  liquids  into  the 
saucer  while  carrying  them  to  the  patient. 

Food  should  not  be  kept  in  the  sick  room  between  meals.  It  will  be 
fresher  and  more  appetizing  if  brought  direct  from  storeroom  or  refrigerator 
when  wanted. 

When  liquid  foods  are  given,  other  receptacles  than  those  for  medicine 
should  be  used,  as  the  association  of  the  two  is  oftentimes  unpleasant.  When 
the  dietary  is  limited,  serve  the  foods  that  are  permitted,  in  as  many  forms 
as  possible  to  avoid  sameness.  For  instance,  beef  tea  may  be  given  hot  in 
the  form  of  beef  essence  —  as  savory  jelly,  frozen,  and  as  beef  tea  custard; 
practically  the  same  food  but  more  palatable  because  served  in  different 
forms. 

Be  very  careful  to  keep  such  foods  as  milk,  beef  tea,  etc.,  covered  while 
in  the  refrigerator,  to  avoid  contact  with  other  or  more  odorous  feeds.  If  the 
refrigerator  has  more  than  one  compartment  reserve  one  exclusively  for  the 
use  of  the  sick  room. 


LEMONADE 

One  lemon,  one-half  pint  cold  water,  two  or  three  lumps  of  sugar. 

Rub  the  sugar  over  the  rind  of  the  lemon  to  extract  a  little  of  the  flavor. 
Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over  the  sugar,  add  the  water  and  stir  till  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  If  the  lemon  is  very  large  a  little  more  water  may  be  used.  A 
thin  slice  of  the  lemon  may  be  cut  off  before  squeezing  and  placed  in  the 
glass  with  the  lemonade. 

A  good  substitute  for  the  lemon  juice  is  Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate. 


BARLEY  WATER 

Two  level  tablespoons  pearl  barley,  one  quart  cold  water,  one-third  level 
teaspoon  salt,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  also  a  little  sugar  if  desired.  Wash  the 
barley,  pour  the  water  over  it  and  soak  for  several  hours.  Add  salt  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  for  at  least  three  hours.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth  or  a 
fine  strainer,  flavor  with  the  lemon,  and  add  sugar  if  liked. 


TOAST  WATER 

Two  slices  of  stale  bread  toasted,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one-sixth  level 
teaspoon  salt.  Toast  the  bread  till  golden  brown  and  dry  all  through,  or  dry 
it  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  till  golden  brown  and  crisp.  Pour  the  boiling 
water  over  it  and  add  the  salt;  cover  and  set  aside  till  cool.  Strain,  and 
serve  hot  or  cold.  Some  add  milk,  cream  and  sugar,  and  serve  hot  in  place  of 
tea  or  coffee. 

(     97     ) 


WOMAN,  THE  ECONOMIST 

Though  men  may  not  admit  it,  women  are  instinctive 
economists.  They  know  values.  A  man  in  shopping  is  likely 
to  buy  quickly.  A  woman  takes  her  time  and  compares  prices. 
In  the  end  she  gets  what  she  wants  for  the  least  money. 

This  store's  popularity  with  women  is  the  result  of  its 
ability  to  satisfy  their  demands  for  good  value. 


(boiimlteMni!Sa»hft. 

Roanoke,  Virginia 


R 


UN 

IGHT  TO 

EED'S  PHARMACY 

1216  Jefferson  Street 


FLAVORING  —  EXTRACTS  —  SPICES 


Call  1589  and  Answer  Your  Doorbell 


Household  Goods  Moved,  Stored  and  Packed  Carefully 

Heavy  Hauling  and  Moving  Pianos,  Organs  and 
Safes  a  Specialty 

EXCELSIOR,  BOXES  AND  BARRELS  FOR  SALE 


PITZER  TRANSFER  CORPORATION 

Office,  600  Commerce  Street,  S.  W. 
Phones :  Office  209— Freight  Station  769— Coal  Yard  299 

(     98     ) 


EGGNOG 

One  egg,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  one  level  tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
rum  or  brandy,  pinch  of  salt.  Separate  the  white  from  the  yolk  of  the  egg, 
beat  the  latter  and  add  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Stir  in  the  rum  or  brandy  and 
beat,  and  add  the  white  of  stiffly  beaten  egg  at  the  last  moment  before  serv- 
ing. 


Junket  Eggnog 

One  egg,  one  cup  milk,  two  level  teaspoons  sugar,  one-fourth  junket 
tablet,  two  teaspoons  wine.  Separate  the  white  from  the  yolk  of  the  egg; 
add  the  sugar  and  wine  to  the  yolk,  then  blend  with  the  white.  Have  the 
milk  lukewarm,  add  the  egg  mixture  to  it  and  immediately  stir  in  the  junket 
dissolved  in  a  teaspoon  of  cold  water.  Pour  at  once  into  small  glasses  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  over  the  top.  As  soon  as  set  put  on  ice  to 
chill. 


ALBUMENIZED  MILK 


One  egg  white,  one-fourth  cup  lime  water,  one  cup  milk.  Mix  all  ingred- 
ients, place  in  a  shaker  or  covered  jar  and  shake  well.  Strain  and  serve  at 
once,  plain  or  sweetened  as  preferred. 


TO  STERILIZE  MILK 


Pour  fresh  milk  into  small  bottles,  filling  them  almost  full.  Put  absorb- 
ent cotton  in  the  necks  instead  of  corks,  and  place  the  bottles  in  a  saucepan 
containing  sufficient  cold  water  to  almost  fill  the  pan;  bring  nearly  to  boiling 
point  and  let  the  bottles  remain  in  the  water  fifteen  minutes.  Then  remove 
and  cool. 


WINE  WHEY 

One  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sherry  or  port  wine.  Boil  the  milk,  add  the 
wine  and  remove  from  the  fire  at  once.  Let  stand  till  the  curd  is  separated 
from  the  whey,  then  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  and  serve  as  it  is,  or  reheat. 


ACID  PHOSPHATE  WHEY 

One  cup  hot  milk,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  Horsford's  Acid 
Phosphate.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  small  saucepan  over  hot  water  or  in  a  double 
boiler;  add  the  Acid  Phosphate  and  cook,  without  stirring,  until  the  whey 
separates.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth  and  add  the  sugar.  If  more  acid  is 
desired,  add  two  or  three  drops  of  Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

(     99     ) 


ASK  FOR 

SALEM  ICE  CREAM 

IT  SPEAKS  FOR  ITSELF 


SALEM  CREAMERY 

PHONE  163— SALEM 


INSURE  THE  FLAVOR  OF  YOUR  DESSERTS  WITH 

SAUER'S  VANILLA 

32  Other  Flavors  and  Spices 

"BEST  BY  EVERY  TEST" 

They  Have  Won  17  Highest  Awards  for  Their 

PURITY— STRENGTH—FINE  FLAVOR 

Try  Sauer's  Sherry  and  Rum  Flavors  and  O-RUM-O 

THE  C.  F.  SAUER  COMPANY 

Richmond,  Virginia 


NOLAND  COMPANY,  Inc. 

General  Office,  Newport  News,  Va. 
WHOLESALE 

PLUMBING,  HEATING  AND 
MILL  SUPPLIES 

Show  Rooms,  11-13  Salem  Avenue,  Roanoke,  Va. 

Call  and  make  PERSONAL  Selection  of  Plumbing  Fixtures 

and  Heating  System  for  your  home 

(     100     ) 


BEEF  AND  SAGO  BROTH 


One-half  pound  round  steak  or  shin  of  beef,  one  pint  water,  three  level 
teaspoons  sago,  one  egg  yolk,  salt.  Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces,  add  the 
water  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour;  then  cook  in  a  double  boiler  two  hours; 
strain,  and  press  as  much  as  possible  of  the  meat  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Add 
the  sago,  return  to  the  saucepan  and  cook  half  an  hour  longer.  Season  and 
pour  the  broth  over  the  yolk  of  the  egg  which  has  been  lightly  beaten.  Serve 
at  once. 


INVALID'S  TEA 

One  level  teaspoon  tea,  one  cup  scalded  milk,  sugar  to  taste.  Bring  the 
milk  quickly  to  the  scalding  point  and  pour  it  over  the  tea.  Let  the  two 
infuse  four  minutes,  strain,  and  serve  with  or  without  sugar.  Tea  made  by 
this  method  nourishes  as  well  as  stimulates. 


CLAM   BROTH 


Six  clams  in  shells,  one  and  one-half  cups  water,  one-half  level  teaspoon 
butter,  if  allowed.  Scrub  the  shells  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one 
cup  of  water.  Cook  till  the  shells  open,  remove  the  clams,  chop  and  return 
them  to  the  saucepan  with  the  water.  Cook  ten  minutes,  strain,  and  add  the 
remaining  water  if  necessary  to  reduce  the  strength  of  the  broth.  Season 
and  serve. 


BEEF  JUICE 


One-half  pound  top  round  of  beef,  pinch  of  salt.  Broil  the  meat  for  about 
two  minutes  to  "start"  the  juice,  then  press  all  the  liquid  from  it  with  a  meat 
press  or  an  old-fashioned  wooden  lemon  squeezer.  Turn  into  a  warm  cup,  or 
colored  glass  to  disguise  the  color;  add  salt  to  taste,  and  serve.  As  this  will 
not  keep  it  must  be  prepared  fresh  for  each  serving. 


BEEF  TEA 

One-half  pound  round  steak,  one-half  pint  water,  one-third  level  teaspoon 
salt.  •Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  the  smaller  it  is  cut  the  more  easily  it 
will  give  off  its  juices,  or  scrape  it  from  the  fibre.  Add  the  cold  water  and 
stand  aside  for  half  an  hour.  Then  place  in  a  Mason  jar,  cover  and  stand  in 
a  saucepan  of  cold  water;  let  it  heat  slowly  to  about  140  degrees  and  cook  two 
hours;  strain  and  season.  It  is  better  to  have  the  jar  raised  from  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan,  that  it  may  not  come  in  too  close  contact  with  the  heat  of 
the  range.  Beef  tea  may  be  served  hot,  frozen,  or  in  the  form  of  a  jelly,  the 
latter  consistency  being  obtained  by  the  addition  of  one  scant  teaspoon  of 
granulated  gelatine  soaked  five  minutes  in  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water  and 
added  to  the  beef  tea  as  soon  as  the  latter  is  strained.  Stand  in  a  cool  place 
until  set. 

(     101     ) 


Take  That  Hill  in  High  and  Enjoy  the  Thrill  of 
Air  Coasting  in  a 

GARDNER— Eight  in  Line 

14  BODY  STYLES— Open  or  Closed  Models 

TEMPLE-PHELPS  MOTOR  CO.,  Inc. 

F.  L.  Temple,  President 
Phone  1125  115-119  E.  Salem  Avenue 


flg^^—,                                          • 

|         Cook  With 

If]     ®%sm  | 

[             GAS 

|                          CLEAN 

E"                      CONVFTsJTFWT 

|_i                               \^VylN  V  Hi  IN  1H.  IN  X 

|                 ECONOMICAL 

f  Roanoke  Gas  Light  Co, 

110  Church  Avenue,  West 

_i\f  f  jf^ '  '  '  '  i  '  '  '  '  ,  '  ,  '  i  '  i  '  i  ^Wnq| 

jjjH •    '     1    '     1    '     '   1"'    ,      '     ,     '     ,     '    ,     '    ■     '     iB    .     '      I 

t^^^^ 

U|4  ■     \; \ A 1 V—     r-  ■  \        V        v        | 

Phone  1707 

STAPLE  AND  FANCY  GROCERIES 

FRUITS  AND  SOFT  DRINKS  OF  ALL  KINDS 
CIGARETTES,  CIGARS  and  TOBACCOS 


FRANK  HANNAH 

Corner  Jefferson  and  Walnut  Street,  S.  W. 
Phone  678 

(     102     ) 


OATMEAL  GRUEL 

One  cup  water  or  milk,  one-fourth  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  level  table- 
spoons oatmeal  or  rolled  oats.  Have  the  water  or  milk  actively  boiling,  shake 
the  oats  into  it  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Then  place  over  hot  water  (a  double 
boiler  is  best)  and  cook  one  hour.  If  the  gruel  is  made  with  milk  add  the 
salt  just  before  serving;  with  water,  it  may  be  put  in  earlier.  Strain  if  de- 
sired to  remove  the  particles  of  oats. 


CORN  MEAL  GRUEL 

One  and  one-half  cups  water,  two  level  tablespoons  corn  meal,  one-third 
level  teaspoon  salt.  Have  the  water  salted  and  actively  boiling,  shake  the 
meal  gently  into  it  and  cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  turn 
the  whole  into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  two  hours.     Strain  if  desired. 


ARROWROOT  GRUEL 

One  level  tablespoon  arrowroot,  one  cup  milk,  one-fourth  level  teaspoon 
salt,  two  tablespoons  brandy  or  wine,  a  very  little  sugar  if  desired.  Mix  the 
arrowroot  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder  and,  when 
boiling,  put  in  the  arrowroot  and  cook  gently  for  ten  minutes;  add  salt  and 
sugar  and,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  the  brandy  or  wine.  Arrowroot  contains 
little  nutriment,  but  is  useful  as  a  vehicle  for  the  serving  of  stimulants. 


IRISH   MOSS 

One  small  handful  Irish  moss,  three  cups  milk,  one  level  tablespoon 
sugar,  one-third  teaspoon  vanilla  or  other  flavoring.  Wash  and  pick  over  the 
moss  carefully,  add  it  to  the  milk  in  a  saucepan,  and  simmer  the  two  till  the 
moss  begins  to  dissolve.  A  double  boiler  is  preferable  as  it  prevents  too 
rapid  cooking.  In  about  twenty  minutes,  if  the  moss  is  dissolving,  strain 
through  cheese  cloth,  add  sugar  and  flavoring,  and  turn  into  wet  moulds  or 
cups  to  cool.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 


SAVORY  CUSTARD 

One  cup  beef  tea  or  good  stock  (chicken  or  beef),  two  eggs,  one-sixth 
level  teaspoon  salt,  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs  till  light  but  not  foamy;  add  salt, 
and  pepper  if  not  objected  to.  Have  the  beef  tea  or  stock  hot  and  pour  it  over 
the  eggs.  Strain  into  greased  cups  or  small  moulds,  and  cover  each  with 
greased  paper.  Stand  the  moulds  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  and  cook  gently, 
either  in  the  oven  or  over  the  fire,  till  the  custard  is  set.  As  soon  as  a  knife 
blade  inserted  in  the  custard  comes  out  clean  (not  milky  looking)  remove 
from  the  fire.  Unmould  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  Do  not  let  the  water  surround- 
ing the  moulds  boil  or  the  custard  will  be  honeycombed  and  less  digestible. 

(     103     ) 


OUR  MILK  IS  RICH 

AND  PURE 

ALSO  ICE  CREAM 


Roanoke  Dairy  and  Ice  Cream  Co. 

Telephone  1089 


HEAIROIA 

COAL  AND  GAS  RANGES 
General  House  Furnishings 
White  Frost  Refrigerators 

Vest  Furniture  Co. 

109  West  Campbell  Ave. 
Phone  128- J 


J.  E.  HOWELL 

PLUMBING  AND  HEATING 

315  Randolph  Street 

Telephone  1065 


(     104     ) 


PUFFED  EGG 

One  egg,  pinch  of  salt.  Separate  the  yolk  from  the  white  of  the  egg  and 
beat  the  latter  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  the  salt.  Turn  into  a  cup  and  place 
in  a  steamer  or  vessel  containing  enough  water  to  come  halfway  up  the  sides 
of  the  cup.  Steam  three  minutes  and  if  at  the  end  of  that  time  it  is  puffy 
looking,  drop  the  unbroken  yolk  into  the  centre  of  the  white,  replace  the 
cover  of  the  pan  and  cook  till  the  yolk  is  nearly  set.  Serve  in  the  cup  in, 
which  it  is  cooked. 


CUSTARD  SOUFFLE 

Two  level  teaspoons  butter,  one  level  tablespoon  flour,  one-third  cup  milk, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  blend 
smoothly  without  browning.  Pour  in  the  milk  and  cook  three  minutes  after 
boiling  point  is  reached.  Separate  the  white  from  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and 
beat  each.  Pour  hot  mixture  (let  it  cool  a  little)  over  the  yolk,  put  in  the 
sugar  and  fold  in  gently  the  stiffly-beaten  white.  Turn  into  two  greased 
cups  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  till  firm — about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  at 
once  with  or  without  sauce. 


EGG  CREAM 

Two  eggs,  two  level  tablespoons  sugar,  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  two  tablespoons  water.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  till  well  blended;  add  the  lemon  juice,  rind 
and  water,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  till  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  till  thick,  and  cook  till  the 
mixture  resembles  thick  cream.  Cool,  and  serve  in  small  individual  cups  or 
glasses. 


DAINTY  PUDDING 

Thin  slices  of  stale  bread  without  crust,  fresh,  hot  stewed  fruit  sweetened 
to  taste,  custard  or  cream.  Cut  the  bread  into  pieces  about  three  inches  long 
and  an  inch  wide.  Line  a  cup  with  the  pieces  fitted  closely  together;  fill  with 
hot,  deep-colored  fruit,  and  place  more  bread  over  the  top.  Place  a  plate  over 
the  pudding,  put  a  weight  on  the  plate,  and  set  aside  till  cold.  Turn  out,  and 
serve  with  cream  or  custard. 


TAPIOCA  JELLY 

One-third  cup  tapioca,  one  and  one-half  cups  water,  one-third  cup  sugar, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  two  tablespoons  sherry  or  one  of  brandy. 
Have  the  water  at  the  boiling  point  in  a  double  boiler,  shake  in  the  tapioca 
gently  and  cook  for  one  hour;  strain  if  desired  clear,  or  the  tapioca  can  be  left 
in.    Add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  when  cool,  the  wine  or  brandy. 


CHICKEN  CHARTREUSE 

One  cup  cold  cooked  chicken,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  grated  lemon  rind, 
one  egg,  one  cup  chicken  stock,  or  half  stock  and  half  cream,  two  level  table- 
spoons granulated  gelatine.     Mince  the  chicken  finely,  pass  through  a  sieve 

(     105     ) 


HOME  BAKERY 

Home  of  Blue  Ribbon  Bread  and  Famous 
Pies  and  Cakes 

SALES  AT  EVERY  GROCERY 

708-710  Center  Avenue,  N.  W.  Phone  2560 


Have  that  Old  Mattress  Renovated 
$4.50  to  $9.00 

ALL  WORK  GUARANTEED 
Called  for  and  Delivered  Same  Day  If  Wanted 


STEIFEL  MATTRESS  COMPANY,  Inc. 

602  Shenandoah  Avenue,  N.  W. 
Phone  4159 


Jbr  Economical  Transportation 


ROANOKE  MOTOR  CO.,  Inc. 

345  Campbell  Avenue,  W.,  Roanoke,  Va. 
Phone  198 


(     106     ) 


and  season  to  taste.  Soak  the  gelatine  for  ten  minutes  in  the  cold  stock  or 
stock  and  cream,  then  heat  to  boiling  point  and,  when  the  gelatine  is  dis- 
solved, strain  it  over  the  chicken.  Add  the  yolk  of  the  egg  lightly  beaten, 
then  the  white  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  partly  cooled  turn  into  a  mould 
and  put  aside  till  very  cold  and  set.    Unmould  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 


SWEETBREADS  a  la  NEWBURG 

One  pair  of  sweetbreads,  three  level  tablespoons  butter,  one  cup  thin 
cream,  two  egg  yolks,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Par- 
boil the  sweetbreads  in  slightly  salted  water,  cut  them  in  cubes  and  cool. 
Melt  the  butter,  put  in  the  cubes  and  cook  gently  for  five  minutes.  Add  the 
cream  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer;  then  put  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  cook  till  they  thicken,  being  very  careful  that  the  sauce  does  not 
curdle.  Season  to  taste,  and  add  the  wine  just  before  serving.  This  may  be 
served  on  toast. 


BEEF  CAKES 

One-fourth  pound  very  lean  round  steak,  salt  and  pepper,  toast.  Cut  the 
meat  into  strips,  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  and  scrape  the  pulp  from  the 
fibre  of  the  meat.  Season  lightly,  remembering  that  the  palate  is  more  sen- 
sitive to  seasoning  in  sickness  than  in  health.  Form  into  very  small  balls  or 
cakes,  and  broil  about  two  minutes.    Serve  on  rounds  of  buttered  or  dry  toast. 


SCRAPED  BEEF  SANDWICHES 

One-fourth  pound  very  lean  steak,  plain  or  buttered  bread  or  toast,  salt 
and  pepper.  Remove  all  fat,  cut  the  meat  into  strips,  scrape  the  pulp  from 
the  fibre,  and  season.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread  or  toast,  buttered  or 
plain;  cover  with  another  slice,  and  cut  into  small  strips. 


Roanoke  Storage  &  Transfer  Corp, 


100  Second  Street,  S.  E. 
MOVING         <tff\^      oae^faiJ^^ 


CRATING 

SHIPPING 

STORAGE 


mim 


Phone  1148 
HAY  RIDES 

PICNICS 

AND  LONG 

DISTANCE 


^•O     DO     ^  HAULING 

WM.  H.  COLEMAN,  Mgr.  Pool  Car  Distribution 

Piano  Boxes,  Phonograph  Boxes,  Barrels  and 
Packing  Cases  for  Sale 


(     107    ) 


METROPOLITAN 


THE   HIGHEST  GRADE   FLOUR 

In  our  modern  plant,  equipped  with  all  of 
the  latest  improvements,  with  the  use  of  intri- 
cate Machinery  for  thoroughly  cleaning  the 
Wheat  and  delicate  white  silk  cloth  for  sifting. 
We  separate  a  small  percentage  of  the  finest 
part  of  the  flour  which  we  put  into  METRO- 
POLITAN. This  is  in  comparison,  like  pour- 
ing the  Cream  off  the  top  of  a  bottle  of  milk. 
METROPOLITAN  is  the  very  Cream  of  the 
Wheat.     SOLD  BY  ALL  GROCERS. 


ROANOKE  CITY  MILLS 


DEPARTMENT  STORE 

Roanoke,  Virginia 

WHERE  DOLLARS  HAVE  MORE  SENSE 

15  Stores  in  Virginia  and  Carolinas 


Bake  wilh  Confidence 

pqsn 

BAKING  SODA 

Assures  Success 

(     108     ) 


CARVING 


Three  things  are  essential  to  good  carving:  first,  a  knowledge  of  the 
anatomy  of  the  fish,  fowl  or  joint  to  be  served;  second,  a  sharp  carving  knife; 
and,  third,  an  acquaintance  with  the  choice  portions  of  the  particular  dish 
which  is  to  be  served. 


FISH 

In  serving  fish  be  careful  not  to  break  the  flakes.  With  such  fish  as 
haddock,  cod,  flounder,  etc.,  run  the  knife  down  the  full  length  of  the  back 
fin  to  separate  the  flesh  from  the  bone.     Portions  can  be  then  divided  easily. 

With  salmon  be  sure  to  serve  a  little  of  the  thick  and  a  little  of  the  thin 
flesh  to  each  person.  The  middle  of  a  fish  is  usually  the  choicest  in  flavor, 
the  tail  part  the  most  insipid. 

When  such  fish  as  flounder  or  sole  are  fried  it  is  wiser  to  fillet  them — 
that  is,  remove  the  bone — before  frying,  as  they  are  easier  to  serve  when  so 
prepared. 


MEATS 

Such  joints  as  require  it,  from  their  lack  of  compact  form,  should  be 
either  tied,  skewered  or  sewed  into  shape  before  cooking.  When  tying  use 
white  string;  when  skewering  use  steel  skewers  in  preference  to  wooden  ones, 
and  when  sewing  use  a  trussing  needle  threaded  with  fine  white  string. 
Either  method  of  securing  the  meat  may  be  employed  by  the  cook. 

Serve  gravy  in  a  separate  vessel  from  the  meat,  that  the  carver  may  work 
more  easily. 

Rib  Roast.  When  the  bone  is  left  in,  cut  the  meat  in  long,  thin  slices 
from  the  thin  to  the  thick  end  of  the  meat.  The  thick,  round  muscle  is  the 
choice  portion  of  the  roast,  the  meat  at  the  thin  end  being  more  or  less  tough 
as  well  as  containing  an  excessive  proportion  of  fat.  It  is  wiser  to  remove 
the  greater  part  of  this  thin  end  and  cook  it  in  some  other  form  than  roast, 
where  it  can  be  used  to  greater  advantage. 

When  the  bone  has  been  removed  from  a  rib  roast  and  the  meat  tied, 
skewered  or  sewed  into  shape,  thin  slices  are  to  be  cut  across  the  upper 
surface  of  the  meat.  The  skewers  or  tie  threads  must  be  left  in  place  till  the 
meat  is  cold  so  that  it  will  retain  its  shape. 

Sirloin  or  Porterhouse  Steak.  First  insert  the  knife  close  to  the  bone 
and  cut  the  meat  away  from  it.  Serve  to  each  person  a  portion  of  the  ten- 
derloin and  a  portion  of  the  meat  from  the  upper  side  of  the  bone. 

Round  Steak.  Cut  in  thin  strips  across  the  grain  of  the  meat.  This  rule 
of  cutting  across  the  grain,  instead  of  with  it,  holds  good  in  the  carving  of 
all  joints,  whether  roasts,  pot-roasts,  corned  beef,  beef  a  la  mode  or  fresh 
boiled  beef. 

Fresh  or  Salt  Ham.  Cut  in  very  thin,  rather  slanting  slices,  beginning 
near  the  narrow  end  of  the  joint.  In  this  way  fat  and  lean  are  more  evenly 
distributed. 

Tongue.  If  rolled,  cut  off  the  top  slice  and  set  it  aside;  then  cut  thin, 
even  slices  across  the  meat.  If  the  tongue  is  not  rolled,  cut  slices  from  the 
thicker  portion  of  the  meat,  discarding  the  tip  as  this  is  dry  and  can  be  used 
to  good  advantage  for  potting  or  for  sandwiches. 

Leg  of  Lamb  or  Mutton.  Have  the  fleshy  side  of  the  meat  uppermost, 
and  cut  even  slices  down  to  the  bone,  beginning  the  carving  about  the  middle 
of  the  leg  and  cutting  towards  the  thick  end  of  the  joint.    If  the  leg  has  been 

(     109     ) 


NEW  AND  USED  FURNITURE 

MOVING,  STORING,  CRATING,  SHIPPING 


Pearsall  Furniture,  Storage  and 
Transfer  Company 

115  East  Campbell  Avenue 
Phones  1062  and  2763 


Gelfand's 
Mayonnaise 

THE  HOUSEWIFE'S  ONLY 
COMPETITOR 

LRY  KATZ  COMPANY 


™oNNAisn! 


DISTRIBUTOR 

307  West  Salem  Avenue 


Phone  1768 


MAKE  ROANOKE  MORE  BEAUTIFUL 

By   planting  your  home  with  our  Flowering  Shrubs,   Shade 
Trees,  Evergreens,  Roses  and  Perennials. 

Descriptive   catalogue   FREE.     Better  still  let  us   have  our 
local  representative  call. 

TITUS  NURSERY  COMPANY 

Waynesboro,  Virginia 


(     HO     ) 


cut  large,  so  that  there  are  some  of  the  chops  with  it  (at  the  thick  end)  see 
that  these  are  well  cracked  through  the  bones  before  cooking.  The  chops  are 
better  served  while  the  roast  is  hot,  as  the  meat  is  drier  when  cold  than  the 
more  fleshy  part  in  the  middle  of  the  joint. 

Loin  of  Lamb  or  Pork.  Be  very  sure  that  the  joints  are  well  cracked, 
otherwise  the  meat  cannot  be  served  neatly.  Cut  from  the  thin  to  the  thick 
edge,  having  one  rib  bone  in  each  slice  of  meat. 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb  is  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  the  loin,  one  bone 
to  a  slice,  cutting  from  top  to  bottom  of  the  meat. 


POULTRY 

Roast  Fowl.  First  remove  the  leg,  then  the  wing,  and  next  the  side  bones. 
Cut  thin  slices  from  the  breast,  running  from  the  head  toward  the  tail.  Cut 
off  the  wishbone  and  make  a  crosswise  incision  in  the  body  of  the  bird  for  the 
removal  of  the  dressing  if  this  is  used.  If  the  tendons  have  been  removed 
from  the  leg  before  cooking,  this  portion  should  be  as  tender  as  any  other. 
Unless  this  has  been  done  it  is  better  to  leave  these  joints  to  be  made  tender 
by  further  cooking. 

Boiled  Fowl  is  carved  in  the  same  manner,  except  that  the  breast  is 
usually  cut  in  thicker  slices,  and  no  dressing  is  served. 

Broiled  Chicken.  Spilt  down  the  back  before  cooking,  and  at  serving 
time  cut  lengthwise  through  the  breastbone,  then,  if  large,  into  quarters,  cut- 
ting across  the  breastbone.    If  the  chicken  is  small,  serve  half  to  each  person. 

Duck  and  Goose.  These  are  carved  in  almost  the  same  manner  as  fowl; 
the  breast,  however,  is  not  so  thick,  and  the  leg  and  wing  joints  lie  somewhat 
closer  to  the  body.  The  breast  and  wings  of  these  birds  are  the  choicest  por- 
tions, the  legs  being  generally  reserved  and  deviled,  or  reheated  in  some  other 
way.  It  is  generally  considered  that  the  leg  of  a  flying  bird  and  the  wing  of 
a  swimmer  are,  with  the  breast,  the  choicest  portions. 


TO  BONE  A  FOWL 

Wash  and  singe  the  bird,  but  do  not  draw  it.  Take  a  very  sharp  pointed 
knife  and  cut  through  skin  and  flesh  the  whole  length  of  the  back;  then  cut 
the  flesh  away  from  the  bones,  beginning  at  the  neck,  scraping  all  the  meat 
from  each  bone  as  the  work  proceeds.  On  reaching  the  wings,  cut  them  off 
close  to  the  body,  and  after  the  meat  is  all  cut  from  the  carcass  of  the  bird, 
the  leg  and  wing  bones  can  be  more  easily  removed.  These  joints  can  be 
practically  turned  inside  out,  thus  making  the  shape  of  the  bird  more  sym- 
metrical for  stuffing  and  cooking.  In  boning,  great  precaution  should  be  taken 
against  breaking  the  skin,  especially  that  of  the  breast.  After  boning,  birds 
are  stuffed  with  a  savory  dressing,  the  flesh  sewed  or  tied  in  place  over  the 
stuffing,  and  either  roasted  or  braised. 


—  MEMO  — 


(    111    ) 


Phones : 

4193 
4194 
4195 

GENUINE 

SMITHFIELD 

HAMS 

WHEN  IT  COMES  FROM 

HUTSON'S 

IT'S  SAFE  TO  EAT 

CHOICE  GROCERIES 

1304  South  Jefferson  Street 

cfcQjm«z 


z*L 


OhoWS 


Chambers 


eeka  Kelvmator 

ltKA  nFANEB-    V         Electric  Refrigeration 


Electric  Refrig'eratiort 


VACUUM    CLEANE 

T   GETS  tut  Ol«.T* 


f  Vacuum  Elcctnd 

WASHER 


TIRELESS 

GasRanjtp 

COOKS  uHih  the  GAS  TURNED  OFF? 


ARMSTRONG 

LINOLEUM  FOR 

EVERY  ROOM  IN 

THE  HOUSE 


Look  For  This  on  All  of  Our  House- 
keepers Appliances.  It  Safeguards 
Your  Interest. 


3AVES         MILES       OF        STEPS 

THURMAN  &  BOONE  GO. 

Roanoke,  Virginia 
(    112    ) 


FRANCO- 
AMERICAN 


ffanco^merica 


BRAND 

HIGH  GRADE  BLINDED 


©SHFIFIEE 


A 

Wonderful 
Coffee 


& 


,6AN< 


.    ,: ■  :■'  H     :  | 


4.':.y-n/-A- 


101 


'■■•ROMi'T    SEKV  ICE 


,)lfi\:-i    '  j  .■'  'J  -  .    -,  ' y 0 


r  ■  i  i  ,   i  >a-  i 


G^Ev 


!        '-—  y    ■    H      ■• 


