XcmcLon,  S*ub  fashed  by  Sherwood ,  {Gilbert  £  .Piper.  DecT  IS  Sit. 


TWO  THOUSAND  FIVE  HUNDRED 

IJrarttcal  Rrriprs 

IN 

FAMILY  COOKERY; 

In  which  the  whole  Art  of 

PREPARING  FOOD  AND  DRINK  FOR  THE  HUMAN  STOMACH 
IS  SIMPLIFIED  AND  EXPLAINED, 

IN  ACCORDANCE  TO  THE  BEST  KNOWLEDGE  OF  THE  AGE, 

And  most  conducive  to  the  Health  and  Happiness  of  our  Species ; 

WITH  AN 

INTRODUCTION 

ON  THE 

DUTIES  OF  COOKS  AND  OTHER  SERVANTS; 

Observations  on  tbc  Implements  employed  in  Cooking ; 

INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  MARKETING,  FOR  TRUSSING, 

AND  FOR  PERFORMING  THE 

HONOURS  OF  THE  TABLE  WITH  GRACE  AND  PROPRIETY 

IN  THE  WHOLE 

art  of  ©attain b. 


BY  JAMES  JENNINGS, 

Author  of  the  Family  Cyclopaedia. 


LONDON : 

SHERWOOD,  GILBERT,  AND  PIPER, 

PATERNOSTER-ROW. 


1837. 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2019  with  funding  from 
Getty  Research  Institute 


V. 


https://archive.org/details/twothousandfivehOOjen 


ADVERTISEMENT  EXTRAORDINARY 


TO  THE 

COMPLETE 

FAMILY  COOK  REFORMED.  . 


The  Slate  of  the  Representation  of  the  Art  of 
Cookery  required,  (to  adopt  the  words  of  our  pa¬ 
triotic  and  most  gracious  King,  William  the  Fourth, ) 
“  a  large  measure  of  Reform:”  we  have, 
therefore,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  our 
Council  of  Cooks  herein  named;  and  more  espe¬ 
cially,  with  the  advice,  consent,  approbation,  and 
goodly  superintendence  of  our  faithful  and  well- 
beloved  Mrs.  Sarah  Jennings,  one  of  our  said  coun¬ 
cil  ;  and  also,  with  the  advice,  consent,  and  approba¬ 
tion  of  our  kind  friend  and  faithful  counsellor, 
Mrs.  Jane  Johnson,  a  lady  who  hath  for  many  years 
devoted  her  attention  to  the  art  of  cooking ;  where¬ 
fore,  having  now  leisure,  and  withal  considerable 
benevolence,  she  hath  most  generously,  and  without 
fee  or  reward,  offered  to  Us  her  extensive  and  long 
experience  in  the  art  of  cooking  human  food  ;  and  it 
hath  been,  therefore,  by  them  the  said  Mrs.  Johnson 
and  Mrs.  Jennings  (together  with  other  grave,  dis¬ 
creet,  and  learned  matrons,  of  whom  our  council  of 
cooks  consists,  but  whom  it  is  not  here  necessary 
more  particularly  to  name)  together  with  ourself, 


IV 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


agreed  that  we  shall  submit  to  those  Ladies  all  the 
Laws,  Rules,  Recipes,  Ordinances,  and  Regulations 
which  may  be  thought  necessary,  pleasant,  useful, 
elegant,  or  beneficial  to  the  State  of  Cookery  as  now 
established,  or  about  to  be,  for  their  revision,  appro¬ 
bation,  or  otherwise,  as  to  them  shall  seem  meet. 

Now,  therefore,  these  are  to  certify  that  the  fol¬ 
lowing  Laws,  Rules,  Recipes,  Ordinances,  and 
Regulations,  have  been  submitted  to  our  Select 
Council  aforesaid  ;  and  have  been  by  them  revised, 
altered,  and  approved,  or  otherwise,  as  hath  ap¬ 
peared  to  the  said  Council  meet.  And  in  order  to 
the  avoidance  of  a  multitude  of  words,  (brevity 
being,  as  it  ought  to  be,  not  only  the  soul  of  wit, 
but  of  sense,)  we  have  directed  and  ordered,  and  do 
hereby  direct  and  order  that  when  our  learned  Censors 
in  council  do  not  approve  of  a  Recipe  or  a  Law 
which  hath  been  propounded,  yet,  as  it  may  be  pru¬ 
dent  sometimes  to  retain  such  recipe  or  law  in  defe¬ 
rence  to  some  prejudice  in  its  behalf,  it  is  necessary 
that  the  Disapproval  of  our  Council  in  such  case 
shall  appear,  We  order  that  the  w or ds  permitted  not 
approved  be  appended  to  such  law  or  recipe ;  or  such 
other  words  as  to  our  Council  shall  seem  meet,  and 
which  imply  the  same. 

Carbonarius,  Secretary. 

Londini,  L,  S, 

Dati  ex  Edibus  Consilii, 

October,  1836. 


INTRODUCTION. 


OUTLINES  OF  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  ART  OF 
COOKERY. 


Inquire  amidst  proud  Learning’s  store 
What  man  hath  been  in  days  of  yore  \ 

How  States  arose,  how  Empires  fell — 

How  Monarchs  governed  ill  or  well. 

Yet  amidst  all,  in  every  clime. 

That  WISDOM  is  the  CHIEF,  the  PRIME* 

Which  appertains  to  daily  life, 

-And  well  becomes  both  maid  and  wife, — 

Imparts  for  aye  a  pleasant  zest. 

And  must  be,  ever  will  be,  BEST. 

The  Art  of  Cookery  in  its  elements  is  almost  as  old  as  the 
creation,  although  few  records  of  it  have  been  handed  down  to 
us  ;  for  we  cannot  doubt  that  Man,  being  prompted  by  his  feeling 
to  satisfy  his  hunger,  soon  learnt,  even  from  the  simplest  fruits, 
the  best  method  of  rendering  those  fruits  agreeable  ;  so  that  if  he 
ate  an  apple  or  an  orange,  he  would,  in  a  very  short  time,  know 
that  the  core  of  the  first  and  the  rind  of  the  second  must  be  rejec¬ 
ted.  From  such  simple  beginnings,  he  proceeded  step  by  step, 
till  he  found  in  the  all-important  grain,  wheat,  an  article  that 
not  only  supplied  his  immediate  wants,  but  which  could  be 
kept  in  store  for  his  future  support.  This  fact,  although  it  now 
appears  so  simple,  must  have  been,  by  the  first  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  considered  a  great  and  a  fortunate  discovery ;  as 
it  was,  and  even,  at  the  present  time,  must  still  be  consi¬ 
dered. 

One  of  the  first  steps  in  the  art  of  Cookery  was  the  employ¬ 
ment  of  fire;  for  we  find  that  the  parching  of  corn  was  perhaps 
the  very  first  of  the  processes  to  which  human  food  was  subjec¬ 
ted.  By  slightly  parching,  corn  is  rendered  more  savoury,  and 
for  robust  stomachs,  such  as  were,  doubtless,  those  with  which 
the  first  inhabitants  of  the  earth  were  blessed,  it  must  have  been 
much  more  suitable  than  the  raw  corn  ;  although  we  are  not  dis¬ 
posed  to  recommend  the  revival  of  this  primeval  practice,  because 

*  “  To  know 

That  which  before  us  lies  in  daily  life 
Is  the  prime  wisdom.” — MILTON. 

b 


11 


INTRODUCTION. 


we  have  superior  means  of  making  grain  of  all  kinds  much  more 
suitable  to  our  digestive  functions.  (See  page  236.*) 

The  earliest  writings  upon  whose  authenticity  reliance  can  be 
placed  concerning  the  preparation  of  food  are  the  Jewish 
Scriptures.  It  is  true  that  in  these  we  are  told,  to  Man  was 
given  “  every  herb  bearing  seed,”  and  “  every  tree  in  the  which 
is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed”  for  meat.  Yet  we  find  that 
many  herbs  as  well  as  fruits  are  not  suited  for  the  food  of  man  ; 
and  he  has  been  compelled  to  exercise  his  judgment  in  the  selec¬ 
tion  and  perparation  of  it;  and  hence  the  art  of  cookery  arose  ;  it 
was,  as  we  have  seen,  most  simple  at  first  till  man’s  wants  and  at 
length  his  luxury  prompted  him  to  the  indulgence  of  the  appetite. 

How  soon  after  the  fall  men  began  to  eat  animal  food ,  we  are 
not  informed  ;  but  as  Abel  was  a  keeper  of  sheep  while  Cain  was 
a  tiller  of  the  ground,  we  may  reasonably  conclude  that  animal 
as  well  as  vegetable  food  was  eaten  by  the  primeval  inhabitants  of 
the  earth ;  for  cattle  are  mentioned  in  the  history  of  Lamech,  a 
descendant  of  Cain. 

In  the  history  of  Noah  and  his  descendants  wre  become  better 
informed.  Every  moving  thing  that  liveth  shall  be  meat  for  you  ; 
even  as  the  green  herb  have  I  given  you  all  things.  So  here  is  a 
complete  recognition  of  animal  food  for  our  support ;  yet  man  has 
been  obliged,  notwithstanding  this  broad  bequest  of  his  Creator, 
as  in  the  case  of  vegetable  food,  to  exercise  his  judgment  in  its 
selection  and  preparation.  We  find,  too,  that  Noah  began  to  be 
a  husbandman,  and  that  he  planted  a  vineyard  and  drank  of  the 
W'ine  and  wras  drunken. 

We  next  find  that  Abram  teas  very  rich  in  cattle  as  well  as  in 
silver  and  in  gold  ;  and  that  Melchisedek  brought  forth,  to  enter¬ 
tain  him,  bread  and  ivine.  This  is,  we  believe,  the  second  time 
that  Bread  is  mentioned  in  the  sacred  writings,  the  first  being  in 
Genesis,  chapter  the  third,  where  is  announced  to  man  as  a  sort 
of  punishment  for  his  disobedience,  that  in  the  sweat  of  thy  face 
shall  thou  eat  bread.  But  bread  here  seems  to  imply  not  only 
bread  now  so  called,  but  also  the  general  food  of  man. 

The  first  notice  of  a  regular  entertainment  is  also  in  Genesis, 
where  Abraham  gave  directions  for  the  refection  of  the  celestial 
messengers.  “  Make  ready,'’  said  he,  “  quickly  three  measures  of 
fine  meal,  knead  it,  and  make  cakes  upon  the  hearth.  And  Abraham 
ran  unto  the  hei'd  and  fetched  a  calf  tender  and  good,  and  gave  it 
unto  a  young  man ;  and  he  hasted  to  dress  it.  And  he  took  butter  and 
milk,  and  the  calf  which  he  had  dressed,  and  set  it  before  them;  and 
he  stood  by  them  under  the  tree,  and  they  did  eat.” 

*  A  remnant  of  the  practice  of  parching  of  corn  may  yet  be  occasion¬ 
ally  seen,  when  children,  in  particular,  are  indulged  in  the  parching  of 
horse-beans  or  peas,  (see  page  211,)  as  a  sort  of  bonne  bouche  ;  but  the 
careful  mother  generally  cautions  them  in  tlieir  use  ;  if  eaten  in  any 
quantity  they  are  often  injurious.  They  are  usually  parched  till  they 
swell  and  the  skins  burst  with  a  report  from  some  disengaged  gas  :  the 
first  scintillations  of  chemical  decomposition  effected  by  the  art  of  cookery  ' 


INTRODUCTION. 


HI 


Here  we  have  the  first  mention  of  hotter  ;  but  from  the  frequent 
mention  of  the  articles  corn,  wine,  and  oil  in  the  Scriptures, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  in  addition  to  the  flocks  and  herds, 
these  articles  were  considered,  as  they  still  are,  in  the  Levant  the 
chief  support  of  man  :  for  butter  in  warm  climates  must  be  very 
often  in  the  state  of  an  oil,  and  therefore  it  can  be  no  wonder 
that  olive  oil,  which  is  so  much  more  easily  preserved  than  but¬ 
ter,  should  be  extensively  used  instead  in  many  such  climates. 

Butter  and  honey  were,  however,  common  articles  of  food  in 
the  land  of  Canaan  ;  and  Job,  bemoaning  his  former  prosperity, 
speaks  of  his  steps  being  washed  with  butter,  and  the  rock  pour¬ 
ing  out  rivers  of  oil. 

As  we  proceed  in  the  Scripture  history,  we  find  that  Lot  enter¬ 
tained  two  angels  by  making  them  a  feast  and  baking  unleavened 
bread  for  them  ;  concerning  which  it  should  be  observed  that  the 
Israelites  were  commanded  to  eat  unleavened  bread  at  the  Passover, 
(Exod.  xii.)  and  again  in  Levit..  (vi.  16,)  the  same  sort  of  bread  is 
directed  to  be  eaten  ;  but  such  bread  was  eaten  only  on  extraordi¬ 
nary  occasions,  or  when  there  was  no  time  to  wait  for  the  fermen¬ 
tation  of  the  dough.  The  ordinary  bread  of  the  Hebrews  was 
prepared  with  leaven,  as  many  places  in  the  Scriptures  testify. 

Venison  and  kids  of  the  goats  were  employed  in  making  savoury 
meat  for  Isaac  ;  and  pottage  of  lentiles  was  given  by  Jacob  to  his 
brother  Esau.  Indeed,  it  is  quite  clear  that  animal  food  was 
largely  consumed  by  the  Israelites  long  before  their  sojourn  in 
Egypt. 

From  this  sketch  of  the  early  practices  of  mankind  in  regard 
to  the  use  of  animal  food,  one  cannot  but  smile  at  the  efforts  of 
some  modern  writers  who  fruitlessly  attempt  to  persuade  us  that 
vegetable  food  is  the  best  and  most  suitable  for  man :  the  affec¬ 
tation  of  living  upon  vegetables  alone  for  a  long  continuance  is  a 
Utopian  absurdity,  unsuited  to  the  general  wants,  habits,  and 
feelings  of  mankind.  But  while  we  deprecate  the  nonsense  of 
confining  man  to  vegetable  food  only,  we  deprecate  in  terms  more 
strong  than  these  the  carelessness,  nay,  the  wantonness  with 
which,  sorry  are  we  to  say,  cruelty  to  animals  is  often  unnecessarily 
inflicted.  To  beartlessness  of  every  kind  we  are  sworn  enemies  ; 
and  to  no  heartlessness  are  we  more  opposed  than  that  which  is 
too  often  exercised  over  the  brute  creation — over  those  wdio  can 
utter  no  voice,  in  words,  of  complaining,  but  who  nevertheless  re¬ 
cognize  and  feel  the  cruelty  of  their  oppressors.  See  Ornitholo- 
gia  passim,  and,  particularly  in  that  work,  the  House-Sparrow's 
Speech,  page  279.  See  also,  concerning  vegetable  and  animal 
food,  some  observations  in  page  239  of  the  present  work. 

Looking  to  the  incidental  history  of  other  nations  as  connected 
with  that  of  the  Israelites,  some  striking  characteristics  of  cookery- 
may  be  observed,  particularly  in  Egypt.  It  appears,  according 
to  the  Jewish  records,  that  Pharaoh  had  both  his  chief  butler 
and  his  chief  baker  ;  how  many  subordinate  officers  belonging 
to  his  royal  establishment  he  also  had,  we  are  not  informed  ; 

b  2 


IV 


INTRODUCTION. 


but  we  hear  of  all  manner  of  baked  meats,  which  were,  pro¬ 
bably,  served  at  his  table  :  we  may  therefore  conclude  that  not 
only  wine  and  bread ,  but  meat  also  must  have  been  in  great  request 
in  that  fertile  country.  Of  grain,  the  Egyptians  had  wheat, 
barley,  and  rye ;  of  cattle  they  had  oxen,  and  sheep  and  goats. 

But  it  appears  from  the  same  records,  that  the  Promised  Land ,  the 
Land  of  Canaan,  was  flowing  with  milk  and  honey  ;  that  honey  was 
then  greatly  esteemed  we  cannot  doubt,  although  at  present  it  is 
become  of  very  little  importance,  the  superior  cheapness  and 
abundance  of  sugar  having  almost  entirely  superseded  the  use  of 
honey  ;  and  indeed  with  good  reason ;  for  except  that  it  contains 
-ome  peculiar  aroma  which  depends  chiefly  upon  the  kind  of 
flowers  from  which  the  bees  extract  it,  essentially  it  does  not  differ 
from  sugar.  Indeed,  it  is  more  apt  to  disagree  with  some  stomachs 
than  even  sugar,  when  it  is  refined,  and  therefore  is  not,  in 
general,  to  be  preferred  to  that  article. 

We  learn  from  the  murmuring  of  the  Israelites  in  the  wil¬ 
derness,  after  they  had  left  Egypt,  that  they  thought  it  would 
have  been  better  for  them  to  have  died  there  when  they  sat  by  the 
flesh  pots  and  ate  bread  to  the  full.  The  consequence  of 
this  was  that  they  were  given  flesh  (namely,  quails,)  to  eat 
at  even,  and  in  the  morning  they  were  filled  with  bread  ( manna), 
which  they  were  ordered  to  bake  or  to  seethe.  This  bread  or  manna, 
we  are  told,  was  like  coriander-seed,  white ;  and  its  taste  like 
wafers  made  with  honey. 

The  Israelites  were,  however,  restricted  in  their  use  of  animal 
food  ;  and  to  the  present  time  the  Jews  comply  with  the  restriction. 
The  rule  is  that  whatsoever  parteth  the  hoof  and  is  cloven-footed,  and 
cheweth  the  cud  among  the  beasts,  may  be  eaten.  Several  beasts 
are  mentioned  which  possess  one  or  more  of  the  above  conditions, 
as  the  camel,  the  rabbit,  the  hare,  and  swine;  all  of  which  they 
were  prohibited  from  eating. 

Birds  of  the  rapacious  tribe,  such  as  eagles,  owls,  and  ravens ; 
and  also  swans,  pelicans,  cormorants,  the  stork,  herons,  lapwing, 
and  the  bat,  with  some  others,  were  likewise  prohibited.  The  bat, 
arranged  here  with  the  birds,  is  unquestionably  one  of  the  mam¬ 
malia,  and  feeds  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  on  insects  ;  it  is  a  very 
useful  animal,  and  on  this  account  ought  never  to  be  destroyed. 
Yet,  according  to  the  Tabella  Cibaria,  page  35,  plump  and  well 
roasted  bats,  laid  upon  a  bed  of  olives,  are  eaten  at  the  present 
time  in  the  Levant  as  a  dainty ;  and  Scaliger  asserts  that  their 
flesh  is  sweeter  and  more  delicate  than  the  breast  of  a 
chicken.  Hence,  de  gustibus  nonest  disputandum:  the  French 
eat  frogs;  the  Sicilians  eat,  it  is  said,  not  only  that  reptile,  but 
many  other  animals  somewhat  out  of  the  ordinary  routine 
of  food,  as  snails,  ink-fish,  hawks,  and  jackdaws.  The  ancient 
Greeks  ate  fricasseed  hedgehogs ;  while  some  of  the  Indians 
of  North  America  are  known  to  eat  the  unwashed  entrails  of  deer 
that  have  been  just  killed.  And  a  pie  made  with  young  rooks  is 
considered  by  many  persons  a  dainty  in  this  country ;  and  even 


INTRODUCTION. 


V 


young  crows  have  been  made  into  a  pie  and  eaten.  Snails  of 
more  than  one  kind  were  formerly,  and  are  sometimes  now, 
eaten  by  some  of  our  rural  population  under  the  impression  that 
they  are  very  wholesome.  Viper  broth  was  formerly  in  great 
request,  and  formed  an  article  in  some  of  the  old  dispensatories. 
The  flesh  is  not,  we  believe,  unwholesome;  but  Lewis  says  that 
he  has  known  a  viper  taken  every  day  for  a  month  without  any 
apparent  benefit.  The  time  for  such  nostrums  and  all  such  animals 
as  food  has  assuredly  passed  away.  They  can  only  be  tolerated 
when  better  food  cannot  be  obtained.  To  return  to  the  Mosaic 
dispensation. 

Of  insects,  locusts,  the  beetle,  (what  beetle?)  and  the  grasshopper 
were  permitted  to  be  eaten  ;  all  other  flying,  creeping  things  which 
have  four  legs  were  declared  to  be  abominations. 

The  unclean  creeping  things  are  declared  to  be  the  weasel,  the 
mouse,  and  the  tortoise ;  the  ferret,  the  chameleon,  the  lizard,  the 
snail,  and  the  mole.  We  are  now,  however,  certain  that  many 
other  reptiles,  the  toad  for  instance,  are  not  fit  for  the  food  of  man. 
Of  the  frog,  as  we  have  seen,  our  Gallic  neighbours  do  occasionally 
partake ;  but  if  we  may  rely  upon  the  evidence  of  the  modern 
French  cookery  books,  it  is  not  now  in  very  great  request. 

Of  the  beasts  which  the  Israelites  were  permitted  to  eat,  the 
following  are  named :  the  ox,  the  sheep,  the  goat,  the  hart,  the  roe¬ 
buck,  and  the  fallow-deer  ;  the  wild  goat,  the  pygary ,  (possibly 
some  species  of  antelope,)  the  wild  ox,  and  the  chamois. 

Having  milk,  they  had  cream  and  butter ;  and  we  find  cheese  too 
occasionally  mentioned. 

Of  fish,  all  that  had  fins  and  scales  they  were  permitted  to  eat; 
this  regulation  is  a  good  one,  although  we  eat  eels  and  a  few  others 
which  have  not  scales.  The  mammalian  fishes,  such  as  the  por¬ 
poise,  are  not  good  food,  and  rarely  indeed  eaten,  except  by  those 
who  have  no  means  of  procuring  better. 

Concerning  these  prohibitions  and  permissions  we  may  observe, 
first,  that  possibly  the  identity  of  all  the  animals  that  are  mention¬ 
ed  in  the  sacred  writings  has  never  been  nor  will  be  exactly  ascer¬ 
tained  ;  and  hence  some  mistakes  in  regard  to  them  might  have 
been  made.  Although  the  Gentiles  generally,  and  most  Chris¬ 
tians  have  departed  in  many  instances  from  the  laws  of  the  Jews 
concerning  animal  food,  it  must  nevertheless  be  admitted  that 
most  of  the  animals  which  they  are  permitted  to  eat  are  the  most 
wholesome  and  valuable  as  food  for  man  which  the  earth  affords. 
It  is  true  we  eat  freely  the  swine,  the  rabbit,  the  hare,  and  the  sea-tor¬ 
toise ;  but  some  of  these,  particularly  the  swine  and  the  sea-tor¬ 
toise,  are  occasionally  surfeiting  food  and  very  unsuitable  for  many 
stomachs.  When,  therefore,  we  desire  the  most  stimulant,  most 
wholesome,  and  substantial  animal  food,  we  must  have  recourse 
to  the  sheep  and  the  ox,  as  the  Israelites  did  and  the  Jews  still  do. 

The  vegetable  food  of  the  Israelites,  in  the  use  of  which  they 
were  not  restricted  by  their  laws  as  in  that  of  animal  food,  was 
sufficiently  various  and  at  the  same  time  agreeable,  particularly 


VI 


INTRODUCTION. 


their  fruits  and  their  corn,  which,  although  usually  made  into 
bread,  was  sometimes,  as  we  have  seen,  eaten  parched. 

Of  fruits  they  had  the  fig,  the  grape,  the  apple,  the  palm,  the 
olive,  and  the  pomegranate ;  they  had  also  the  hazel  and  the  chest¬ 
nut,  (Gen.  xxx.  37  ;)  but  whether  they  partook  of  them  we  are 
not  exactly  informed.  Having  the  palm,  they  had  dates.  The  fig, 
the  grape,  and  the  olive  were  beyond  question  of  the  most  impor¬ 
tance  to  them  ;  and  one  of  the  greatest  advantages  which  they 
possessed  was  that  every  one  might  sit  under  his  own  vine,  and 
under  his  own  fig-tree — a  luxurious  enjoyment  in  the  climate  of 
Judaea.  The  almond  and  nuts  more  or  less  abounded  ;  as  did  also 
mulberry-trees,  (2  Jam.  ch.  v.) 

Reverting  again  to  Egypt,  we  may  observe  that,  besides  corn, 
(which  grew  there  in  such  abundance  that  it  frequently  supplied 
the  wants  of  other  countries,)  the  fig,  the  grape,  and  the  pomegra¬ 
nate  were  known  there  from  the  earliest  times.  The  Israelites 
mention  also,  in  their  murmuring  in  the  wilderness,  that  they  ate 
freely  of  cucumbers,  melons,  leeks,  onions,  and  garlic. 

Pot-herbs  were  also  used  in  more  or  less  abundance.  It  is 
remarkable  that  Moses  gave  to  the  Israelites  some  useful  precepts 
for  the  cultivation  of  fruit-trees  in  that  land  which  he  promised 
them  should  be  flowing  with  milk  and  honey. 

Of  the  condiments  which  they  employed  we  know  little,  al¬ 
though  we  are  certain  that  they  had  wine,  vinegar,  oil,  cream,  bulter, 
honey,  and  doubtless  salt.  And  that  they  had  other  strong  drink 
besides  wine  we  are  also  assured,  for  when  Eli  reproved  Hannah 
for  being  drunken,  she  replied  that  she  had  drunken  neither  wine 
nor  strong  drink. 

We  may  notice  here  one  early  prohibition  that  was  given  to 
Noah  immediately  after  his  going  forth  from  the  ark,  namely,  that 
“  Flesh,  with  the  life  thereof,  which  is  the  blood  thereof,  shall  ye 
not  eat.”  This  prohibition  is  repeated  in  Leviticus,  and  again  in 
Deuteronomy.  The  Jews  have  therefore  always,  and  do  still,  we 
believe,  abstain  from  partaking  of  the  blood  of  animals  however 
mixed  or  prepared.  We  of  the  Christian  world  have  been,  in  this 
respect,  less  abstemious.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  arterial 
blood  in  particular  is  highly  stimulant  and  nutritious  ;  yet  there 
seems  to  be,  even  among  us,  if  not  a  natural,  a  moral  antipathy  to 
the  employment  of  blood  as  human  food,  which  we  have  no  incli¬ 
nation  whatever  to  remove  ;  although  we  find  the  professed  gour¬ 
mand  delighting  in  the  flesh  of  a  have  from  which  the  blood  has 
not  been  abstracted,  and  whose  fumet 

stands  upon  the  very  brink 
Of  what  some  persons  call  a  st:nk  !* 

Adverting  to  the  progress  of  the  Israelites  till  they  became  an 
important  people,  we  learn  from  1  Samuel,  ch.  viii.  that  he  shewed 
them,  when  they  asked  for  a  king,  what  that  king  would  do  for 
them  ;  among  other  things  he  said  that  he  would  take  their  daugh- 

*  See  page  242. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Vll 


ters  to  be  confectionaries,  and  cooks,  and  bakers ;  a  proof  that 
luxury  had  made  considerable  progress  among  them.  We  find  also 
that  when  Jesse  sent  his  son  David  to  some  of  his  brothers,  who 
followed  Saul  to  the  battle  against  the  Philistines,  he  directed 
him  to  take  to  them  some  parched  corn  as  well  as  bread,  and  to 
the  captain  of  their  thousand  ten  cheeses. 

After  David  became  king,  upon  one  occasion  in  particular  he 
entertained  all  the  people  with  a  cake  of  bread,  a  good  piece  of 
flesh,  and  a  flagon  of  wine.  And  that  considerable  knowledge 
had  now  been  obtained  concerning  the  preparation  and  preserva¬ 
tion  of  food  of  various  kinds  we  cannot  doubt ;  among  other 
things,  mention  is  made,  1  Sam.  ch.  xxv.  of  two  hundred  loaves, 
two  bottles  of  wine,  five  sheep  ready  dressed,  five  measures  of  parched 
corn,  a  hundred  clusters  of  raisins,  and  two  hundred  cakes  of  figs, 
brought  by  Abigail  to  pacify  David,  during  the  reign  of  Saul. 

We  pass  over  the  rest  of  the  culinary  history  of  the  Israelites 
during  the  reign  of  David,  in  order  to  direct  the  reader’s  attention 
to  the  more  splendid  establishments  of  his  son  Solomon,  during 
whose  reign  we  may  presume  that  the  culinary  arts  had  arrived  at 
considerable  perfection. 

And  here  w'e  may  observe  that,  as  Solomon  had  taken  to  wife  a 
daughter  of  Pharoah,  king  of  Egypt,  it  seems  extremely  proba¬ 
ble  that  the  luxuries  of  that  country  formed  a  part  of  his  cookery  ; 
and  that  the  many  flesh-pots,  so  feelingly  deplored  by  the  Israel¬ 
ites  in  the  wilderness,  were  employed  for  the  banquets  of  the 
splendid  court  of  Solomon  ;  for  that  it  was  splendid  there  can  be 
no  doubt.  “  He  had  twelve  officers  over  all  Israel  (we  give  the  exact 
words  of  the  historian)  which  provided  victuals  for  the  king  and  his 
household  :  each  man  a  month  in  the  year  made  provision.”  And  of  so 
much  importance  were  these  purveyors,  (we  may  call  them  with 
propriety,  perhaps,  chief  cooks,)  that  the  historian  names  every  one 
of  them  and  the  region  which  pertained  to  each.  And,  in  conclu¬ 
ding  the  enumeration,  he  tells  us  that  Judah  and  Israel  were 
many  as  the  sand  which  is  by  the  sea-side  in  multitude,  eating 
and  drinking,  and  making  merry.  We  hence  conclude  that  the 
reign  of  Solomon  constituted  the  acme  of  the  worldly  prosperity 
of  the  Israelites,  and  of  their  best  knowledge  of  the  culinary  arts 
as  connected  w'ith  a  powerful  and  at  that  time  a  luxurious  people. 
We  must  not,  however,  omit  to  mention  that  Solomon’s  provision 
for  one  day  was  thirty  measures  of  fine  flour,  and  three-score 
measures  of  meal;  ten  fat  oxen  and  twenty  oxen  out  of  the  pas¬ 
tures,  and  a  hundred  sheep,  besides  harts,  and  roe-bucks,  and 
fallow-deer,  and  fatted  fowl.  So  that  here  was  every  thing  which  a 
luxurious  gourmand  might  desire.  And  thus  Judah  and  Israel 
dwelt  safely  every  man  under  his  own  vine  and  his  own  fig-tree, 
from  Dan  even  to  Beer-sheba,  all  the  days  of  Solomon. 

We  are  told,  too,  that  Solomoii  spake  of  trees,  from  the  cedar 
of  Lebanon  to  the  hyssop ;  and  that  he  spake  of  beasts,  of  fowl, 
and  of  creeping  things,  and  of  fishes  ;  but  none  of  his  writings  on 
these  various  subjects  have  come  down  to  us.  We  have,  never¬ 
theless,  some  incidental  observations  in  the  books  attributed  to 


Vlll 


INTRODUCTION. 


Solomon  that  deserve  attention  ;  such  are  those  in  Ecclesiastes, 
where  he  speaks  of  vineyards,  gardens,  and  orchards,  and  fruit- 
trees .  But  it  is  not  necessary  that  we  should  pursue  this  sketch 
of  the  culinary  history  of  the  Israelites  farther.  Those  who  desire 
to  obtain  more  information  concerning  it  will  consult  the  Scrip¬ 
tures  for  themselves. 

It  is  here  necessary  that  we  should  advert  to  the  culinary  arts 
as  practised  by  some  other  of  the  ancient  nations  :  among  these  the 
Greeks  demand  our  first  attention  as  an  enlightened,  and, in  some 
respects,  a  highly  polished  people.  But  the  knowledge  of  this 
art  as  practised  by  the  Greeks  has  come  down  to  us  in  a  very 
imperfect  state  ;  and  no  wonder,  as  we  are  told  by  the  author  for 
Tabella  Cibaria  (4to.  Sherwood  Co.  1820)  that  cooks  at  Athens 
and  at  other  places  of  Greece  and  Italy  were  commonly  hired  for 
the  occasion,  as  they  did  not  generally  constitute  an  essential  part 
of  a  domestic  establishment,  but,  on  the  contrary,  were  in  very 
low  esteem,-  and  in  fact  treated  as  knaves  ;  we  must  not  be  sur¬ 
prised,  therefore,  if  the  art  itself  was  despised. 

The  first  Grecian  writer  to  whom  we  shall  turn  in  this  inquiry 
is  Hesiod,  who  flourished  about  nine  hundred  years  before  the 
Christian  era.  Hesiod  wrote  many  works,  but  one  of  the  chief  is 
on  Agriculture,  and  called  Works  and  Days.  In  this  work,  or 
Poem,  as  it  really  is,  which  it  is  said  Virgil  has  imitated  in  his 
Georgies,  we  find  many  useful  observations  ;  some  indeed  so  use¬ 
ful  that  they  apply  equally  well  to  the  present  as  to  the  times  in 
which  they  were  written.  Thus  Hesiod  says  (we  quote  Cooke’s 
Translation  ) — 

“  How  great  the  pleasure  wholesome  herbs  afford  ; 

How  bless’d  the  frugal  and  an  honest  board.'’ — Book  i. 

And  again,  the  directions  for  gathering  grapes  and  rendering  them 
fit  for  being  pressed  and  made  into  wine  are  so  apt  that  it  is  im¬ 
possible  not  to  admire  the  management  of  the  Grecian  vintage 
three  thousand  years  ago.  If  the  reader  will  take  the  trouble  to 
refer  to  our  fifteenth  chapter,  article  Cyder,  he  will  there  see 
similar  directions  for  the  treatment  of  the  apple. 

“  When  in  the  rosy  morn  Arcturus  shines. 

Then  pluck  the  clusters  from  the  parent  vines  ; 

Forget  not  next  the  ripen'd  grapes  to  lay 
Ten  nights  in  air,  nor  take  them  in  by  day  ; 

Five  more  remember,  ere  the  wine  is  made. 

To  let  them  lie  to  mellow  in  the  shade  ; 

And  in  the  sixth  briskly  yourself  employ 

To  cask  the  gift  of  Bacchus,  sire  of  joy.” — Book  ii. 

How  a  pleasant  feast  was  prepared  we  may  also  learn  from  the 
same  writer  : — 

“  With  country  cates  your  homely  table  spread. 

The  goat’s  new  milk  and  cakes  of  milk  your  bread  ; 

The  flesh  of  beeves,  which  browse  the  trees,  your  meat  : 

Nor  spare  the  tender  flesh  of  kids  to  eat; 

With  Byblian  wine  the  rural  feast  be  crowned  ; 

Three  parts  of  water  ;  let  the  bowl  go  round.” — Book  ii. 


I  INTRODUCTION. 


IX 


Byblian  wine  took  its  name  from  a  country  of  Thrace  abounding  in 
fine  wines  ;  Theocritus  calls  it  “  the  fine-flavoured  Byblian.” 

But  we  shall,  perhaps,  obtain  a  more  correct  notion  of  early 
Grecian  Cookery  from  the  writings  of  Homer  than  from  any  other 
author.  In  the  ninth  book  of  his  Iliad  is  a  description  of  a  feast 
given  by  Achilles  to  the  ambassadors  of  Agamemnon  ;  and  as  its 
preparation  is  at  once  curious  and  somewhat  minute,  as  translated 
by  Pope,  we  here  present  it  to  the  reader.  Homer,  the  reader 
will  remember,  flourished  about  the  time  of  Hesiod. 

*  *  *  Patroclus  o’er  the  blazing  fire 
Heaps  in  a  brazen  vase  three  chines  entire  ; 

The  brazen  vase  Automedon  sustains. 

Which  flesh  of  porket,  sheep,  and  goat  contains  : 

Achilles  at  the  genial  feast  presides. 

The  part  transfixes  and  with  skill  divides. 

Meanwhile  Patroclus  sweats  the  fire  to  raise  ; 

The  tent  is  brighten’d  with  the  rising  blaze  ; 

Then  wrhen  the  languid  flames  at  length  subside. 

He  strews  a  bed  of  glowing  embers  wide. 

Above  the  coals  the  smoking  fragments  turns. 

And  sprinkles  sacred  salt  from  lifted  urns  ; 

With  bread  the  glittering  canisters  they  load. 

Which  round  the  board  Menoetius’  son  bestow’d  ; 

Himself,  oppos’d  t’  Ulysses  in  full  sight. 

Each  portion  parts  and  orders  every  rite. 

The  first  fat  offerings,  to  the  Immortals  due. 

Amidst  the  greedy  flames  Patroclus  threw; 

Then  each,  indulging  in  the  social  feast. 

His  thirst  and  hunger  soberly  repress’d. 

That  done,  to  Phoenix  Ajax  gave  the  sign  ; 

Not  unperceiv’d  ;  Ulysses  crown’d  with  wine 
The  foaming  bowl. - 

To  those  who  are  curious  concerning  ancient  cookery,  Homer’s 
Odyssey  will  furnish  very  many  amusing  particulars,  but  our  limits 
only  allow  us  to  give  this  general  notice  of  them.  But  we  cannot 
avoid  noticing  some  of  the  sentiments  that  are  put  into  the  speech 
of  Telemachus ;  among  others  this  : — 

“  When  lawless  gluttons  riot,  mirth’s  a  crime.” 

The  jars  of  oil,  too,  breathing  forth  a  rich  perfume;  and  the 
casks  of  wine,  with  which  the  palace  of  Ulysses  was  stored,  and 
which  were  reserved  till  his  return,  are  among  the  number  of  the 
curiosities  that  the  culinary  antiquarian  will  not  fail  to  observe. 
There  is  one  thing,  however,  that  is  striking  in  all  the  descriptions 
of  the  ancients  in  regard  to  wine.  It  was  often,  it  seems,  drunk 
in  bowls ;  we  constantly  hear  of  the  foaming  bowl ;  the  sparkling 
bowl,  the  flowing  bowl,  the  rosy  bowl,  the  mirth-inspiring  bowl,  fyc. ; 
pure  flavorous  wines,  rich  fragrant  wines, rosy  ivine,  the  presses  foam 
with  floods  of  wine,  the  luscious  ivine,  fyc.  That  the  wines  of  the 
ancients  were  extremely  rich  and  luscious  and  very  often  exceed¬ 
ingly  sparkling,  we  cannot  entertain  a  doubt;  they  were  usually 


X 


INTRODUCTION. 


mixed  with  water  when  drunk,  upon  ordinary  occasions.  However, 
sometimes 

“  Wines  unmixed,  an  honour  due  to  age. 

To  cheer  the  grave  and  warm  the  poet’s  rage.” 

Odyssey,  Book  xiii. 

That  wine,  even  iu  the  favourable  climate  of  Greece,  took  a 
considerable  time  to  arrive  at  perfection  we  learn  from  Theo¬ 
critus  : — 

tc  Wine  flow’d  abundant  from  capacious  tuns. 

Matur’d  divinely  by  four  summer  suns.” 

Fawkes,  Idyllium  vii. 

Hence  we  may  be  assured,  that  if  it  took  four  years  to  perfect 
good  wine  iti  the  climate  of  Greece,  in  our  own  climate  its  perfect 
fermentation  is  scarcely  possible.  (See  section  on  English  Wines, 
page  394.) 

In  the  writings  of  Theocritus  will  also  be  found  many  things  to 
gratify  culinary  curiosity  ;  but  he  lived  much  later  than  either 
Hesiod  or  Homer,  and  although  he  wrote  in  Greek,  was  a  native 
of  Syracuse  in  Sicily,  and  flourished  about  282  years  before 
Christ.  He  writes  chiefly  of  rural  allairs  ;  he  makes,  however, 
his  characters  cook  aud  feast  tolerably  well ; — 

“  A  sucking  pig  I  dress’d  and  brace  of  fowls. 

And  fragrant  wine  produc’d  four  summers  old  ; 

Onions  and  shell-fish  last  the  table  crown’d. 

And  gaily  went  the  cheering  cup  around  ; 

Then  healths  were  drunk,  and  each  obliged  to  name 
The  lovely  mistress  that  inspir’d  his  flame.” 

Fawkes,  Idyllium  xiv. 

His  Idyllium  xv.  called  The  Syracus'an  Gossips,  is  well  deser¬ 
ving  attention ;  it  may  be  worth  while  to  give  the  following 
couplet :  — 

“  With  finest  meal  sweet  paste  the  women  make. 

Oil,  flowers,  and  honey  mingling  in  the  cake.” 

Once  more  of  Theocritus  :  whatever  might  be  the  fancy  of 
poets,  we  nevertheless  find  upon  numerous  occasions  that  we  can 
gather  from  them  many  facts  concerning  the  habits  and  manners 
of  mankind.  Thus,  in  his  xxivth  Idyllium,  in  describing  Young 
Hercules,  he  says, — 

“  Roast  meat  he  lov’d  at  supper  to  partake. 

The  bread  he  fancied  was  the  Doric  cake. 

Enough  to  satisfy  the  labouring  hind  ; 

But  still  at  noon  full  sparingly  he  dined.” 

It  is  somewhat  remarkable  that  many  of  our  agricultural  la¬ 
bourers  at  the  present  time  adopt  a  similar  method  in  satisfying 
their  hunger  ;  namely,  to  dine  sparingly  and  to  eat  on  their  return 
to  their  home  at  night  a  hot  and  a  full  meal. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XI 


Of  Anacreon  we  have  already  spoken  :  he  says  of  nine, — 

“  To  make  the  beverage  divine. 

Mingle  sweet  roses  with  the  wine.” 

But  how  they  were  to  be  mixed  he  does  not  inform  us. 

There  is  an  epigram  On  Company  attributed  to  Anacreon,  of 
which  the  following  is  a  translation  : — 

“  I  ne’er  can  think  his  conversation  good 

Who  o’er  the-bottle  talks  of  wars  and  blood  ; 

But  his  whose  wit  the  pleasing  talk  refines. 

And  lovely  Venus  with  the  Graces  joins.” 

There  are  also  some  observations  on  the  method  of  slaying 
cattle  and  the  mode  of  dressing  some  of  the  joints  in  the  Argonau- 
tics  of  Apollonius  Rhodius,  but  we  can  merely  allude  to  them, 
observing  that  savoury  viands,  salted  cake,  and  rosy  and  generous 
wines,  form  frequently  the  repast. 

Besides  what  has  been  already  observed  concerning  the  cookery 
of  the  Greeks,  they  were  also  well  acquainted  with  cabbage;  but 
they  seemed  to  treat  it  rather  as  a  medicinal  plant.  Chrysippus, 
indeed,  is  said  to  have  written  a  volume  concerning  it;  and  Galen 
has  also  treated  of  it-  Yet  there  was  an  adage  among  the  Greeks, 
Jic  davciTos,  “  Twice  cabbage,  death,”  that  would  indicate  it. 

was  among  them  in  no  great  esteem  as  food ;  but  the  author  of 
Tabella  Cibaria  thinks  that  the  adage  can  be  explained  in  another 
way.  Whatever  the  Greeks  thought  of  cabbage,  we  have,  in  our 
days,  no  apprehension  about  it,  provided  it  be  fresh  gathered, 
properly  boiled,  and  the  water  in  which  it  has  been  cooked  be 
immediately  thrown  away.  See  page  219  and  several  of  the  fol¬ 
lowing,  as  well  as  page  359.  The  reader  who  desires  to  learn  more 
concerning  the  Crambe  or  Brassica  tribe  as  regarded  by  the  Greeks , 
will  find  many  curious  particulars  in  the  Tabella  Cibaria. 

Of  the  condiments  of  the  Greeks  it  is  not  necessary  to  say  much; 
they  had  wine,  and  oil,  and  honey ;  and  Alexander  the  Great, 
sent  onions  from  Egypt,  so  that  from  Greece  they  became  common 
over  the  whole  continent  of  Europe.  They  had  parsley,  too, 
(s-eMvov,)  which  was  in  repute  in  the  time  of  Homer;  leeks 
and  garlic,  as  well  as  onions,  were  also  the  produce  of  Egypt, 
and  thence  all  were  most  probably  introduced  into  Greece.  They 
must  have  had,  too,  some  of  the  mints  and  other  sweet  herbs. 
Salt  appears  to  have  been  almost  every  where,  as  well  in  ancient 
as  in  modern  times,  a  condiment.  The  Greeks  must  also  have 
had  vinegar;  their  wine,  when  sour,  became  that  agreeable 
condiment,  o^o;,  the  acclum  of  the  Romans.  They  had  also 
their  yu; ov,  garum,  a  sauce  or  pickle  made  from  salted  fish. 
And  besides  other  fish  the  Athenians  held  oysters  in  great  esteem. 
Of  butter  the  Greeks  knew  little  ;  it  is  said  that  they  bought  it 
ready  made  from  the  Parthians  under  the  name  of  oil  of  milk. 
When  good  olive  oil  can  be  obtained  and  kept  so  readily,  in  warm 
climates  butter  must  be  comparatively  a  useless  article.  That  the 
Greeks  had  pepper  we  cannot  doubt ;  and  probably  some  other  of 
the  spices  besides  cinnamon. 


INTRODUCTION. 


xii 

The  progress  of  the  Greeks  in  the  art  of  cookery  was  for  a  long 
time  slow,  as  that  of  mo9t  nations  in  the  early  part  of  their  career 
almost  invariably  is ;  they  were,  therefore,  for  a  long  time  con¬ 
tented  with  rude  and  simple  cookery  of  the  most  simple  food, 
such  as  roasted  acorns,  barley,  or  other  corn,  which,  before  mills 
were  invented,  was  roasted  in  hot  embers,  or  parched  upon  the 
hearth,  and  then,  after  being  beaten  into  a  coarse  powder,  made 
into  a  paste  and  dried  into  hard  lumps  or  loaves. 

When  cooking  animals,  the  brain  was  never  eaten,  that  being 
considered  as  a  sort  of  sacred  part;  but  the  entrails  made  a  com¬ 
mon  dish.  The  meat  in  the  early  times  was  served  upon  dishes  of 
wood,  or  of  brass  for  the  better  sort  of  persons.  They  usually 
drank  their  wine,  when  taken  at  their  meals,  mixed  with  water ; 
they  afterwards  drank  it  pure.  Their  first  drinking  cups  were  made 
of  horn  ;  they  afterwards  used  cans,  which  were  made  of  ivy. 
Their  dessert  consisted  of  nuts,  fruits,  and  all  sorts  of  junkets. 

It  is  said  that  they  partook  of  only  one  meal  a-day  in  the  early 
period  of  their  history,  and  that  was  supper  ;  but  that  afterwards 
they  partook  of  refreshment  as  often  as  three  or  four  times  a-day. 
Their  first  meal  was  the  acratisma ,  or  breakfast ;  the  second 
ariston ,  or  dinner ;  and  the  third  dorpon,  or  supper.  To  these 
some  writers  add  deipnon ,.  a  repast  between  dinner  and  the  last 
meal. 

Notwithstanding  professed  cooks  were  not  kept  in  the  houses  of 
ordinary  citizens,  it  is  said  that  the  cook  constituted  one  of  the 
chief  officers  both  at  a  sacrifice  and  at  a  feast.  It  is  time,  however, 
that  we  should  leave  ancient  Greece;  but  this  we  cannot  do 
without  calling  to  the  reader’s  recollection  a  part  of  Byron’s 
address  to  Modern  Greece. 

“  Sweet  are  thy  groves  and  verdant  are  thy  fields. 

Thine  olive  ripe  as  when  Minerva  smil’d. 

And  still  his  honied  wealth  Hymettus  yields  ; 

There  the  blithe  bee  his  fragrant  fortress  builds. 

The  free-born  wanderer  of  the  mountain  air, 

Apollo  still  thy  long,  long  summer  gilds. 

And  Nature  still  is  fair.” 

Proceed  we  now  to  the  more  abundant,  more  luxurious,  and 
much  better  known  cookery  practised  formerly  by  the  mistress  of 
the  world,  ancient  Rome. 

The  Romans  and  some  other  ancient  nations  had  a  notion  that  the 
earth  in  their  time  was  old  and  worn,  or  fast  wearing,  out;  that  in 
its  youth,  in  what  has  been  called  the  Saturnian  Times,  the  Golden 
Age,  every  thing  was  produced  without  trouble ;  that  then 

“  Unlaboured  harvests  did  the  fields  adorn. 

And  clustered  grapes  then  blush’d  on  every  thorn.” 

Virgil’s  4th  Eclogue,  as  translated  by  Dryden. 

Lucretius  too  tells  us  that 

“At  first  earth,  corn,  and  wine,  and  oil  did  bear. 

And  tender  fruit  without  the  tiller’s  care.” 


1  INTRODUCTION. 


Xlll 


A  glorious  time  certainly,  according  to  a  Roman’s  notion  of 
idleness:  but  the  more  correct  knowledge  of  the  present  day 
informs  us  that  the  best  happiness  is  that  produced  by  the  com¬ 
bined  exertions  of  mind  and  body.  Even  if  corn,  wine,  and  oil 
were  produced  for  us  without  labour,  our  corn,  at  least,  must  be 
cooked  to  be  rendered  suitable  for  us  ;  in  fact,  the  grape  and  the 
olive  both  require  a  sort  of  cooking  to  be  rendered  tit  for  human 
aliment.  Lucretius  well  perceived  our  actual  wants : 

“  And  little  too  is  needful  to  maintain 

The  body  sound  in  health  and  free  from  pain. 

Not  delicates,  but  such  as  may  supply 
Contented  nature’s  thrifty  luxury. 

She  asks  no  more.” 

Cookery  among  the  Romans,  as  the  Israelites  and  the  Greeks, 
was  at  first  simple ;  and  then,  as  wealth  increased  and  many  of 
the  citizens  became  rich,  they  had  their  professed  cooks  ;  indeed 
it  is  said  that  there  was  a  cook  at  Rome  to  whom  a  salary  of  four 
talents  was  paid  ;  that  is,  864  pounds  sterling  of  our  money  ; 
and  that  Marc  Antony  was  so  well  satisfied  with  one  of  his  cooks 
at  a  repast  given  to  Cleopatra,  that  he  rewarded  him  with  a 
municipium,  or  corporate  town,  for  his  culinary  accomplishments. 

Most  of  the  opulent  citizens  displayed  their  wealth  and  their 
luxuries  chiefly  at  their  villas  in  the  country.  These  villas  con¬ 
sisted  of  what  they  called  urban  a,  that  is,  the  house  with  its 
various  apartments,  &c. ;  the  kijstica  were  for  the  servants ,  slaves, 
stables,  &c. ;  and  the  fructuakia  consisted  of  wine  and  oil-cellars, 
barns,  granaries,  & c.  &c.  Near  the  rustica,  places  were  appro¬ 
priated  for  keeping  birds  of  many  kinds,  such  as  fowls,  geese, 
ducks,  wild  fowl,  &c.  besides  dormice,  pigs,  hares,  rabbits,  bees, 
snails,  Jisli,  & c.  They  had  also  a  sort  of  park  or  vivarium,  in  which 
game,  deer,  and  wild  animals  were  kept ;  these  were  sometimes 
intermingled  with  orchards  and  vineyards.  They  had  also  kitchen 
gardens  ;  and  forcing  frames  for  cucumbers,  &c.  over  which  were 
placed  specularia,  or  thin  plates  of  stone,  or  of  talc,  which 
admitted  to  a  certain  extent  the  light.  Their  hot-houses  were 
warmed  by  flues ;  which  were  also  placed  under  their  apartments 
to  warm  them  instead  of  an  open  fire. 

Of  the  luxurious  living  of  some  of  the  Roman  citizens  much 
has  been  said  by  many  writers.  Lucullus  was  a  military  man,  and 
had  appointments  both  in  Asia  and  Africa,  where  he  greatly 
distinguished  himself;  and  from  Asia  he  brought  the  cherry, 
the  peach,  and  the  apricot.  But  while  he  was  admired  for  his 
accomplishments,  military  and  literary,  his  extravagance  of 
living  exceeded  all  ordinary  bounds.  In  his  retirement  he  had 
caves  and  passages  dug  under  the  hills  on  the  coast  of  Campania, 
and  the  sea-water  was  conveyed  around  his  house  and  pleasure 
grounds,  where  it  is  said  the  fishes  flocked  in  such  abundance 
that  not  less  than  25,000  pounds’  worth  were  sold  at  his  death. 


XIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


Of  the  Apicii  three  have  heen  named,  all  more  or  less  great 
gourmands ;  “  but  not  otherwise  known  at  Rome  than  on  account 
of  their  unparalleled  love  of  good  living  and  their  sumptuous 
tables ;  to  gratify  their  pride  they  sometimes  presented  ragofits 
exclusively  composed  of  tongues  of  peacocks  and  nightingales.” 
A  work  written  by  Apicips  Ccelius,  entitled  Apicii  Ccelii  de 
Opsoiiiis  ei  Condimentis  sire  Arte  Coquinarid,  is  still  in  existence  ; 
and  which,  according  to  the  author  of  the  Tabella  Cibaria, 
“  though  exceedingly  curious,  gives  a  disgusting  idea  of  what 
the  art  of  cookery  must  have  been  among  the  Romans.” 

It  is  said  that  Apicius  Ccelius  spent  more  than  sixty  thousand 
pounds  sterling  merely  to  vary  the  taste  of  sauces  ;  and  finding, 
after  many  other  expensive  experiments,  that  his  great  fortune 
was  much  reduced,  he  destroyed  himself. 

Apicius,  the  third  of  that  name,  was  very  fond  of  oysters,  for 
which  he  paid  an  enormous  price  ;  those  from  the  Lucrine  lake, 
Brundusium  and  Abydos,  on  the  Hellespont,  were  esteemed  the 
best,  and  as  such  were  sent  as  presents  to  great  men.*  They 
were  not,  however,  common  at  Rome,  and  therefore  were  very 
dear ;  but  Macrobius  tells  us  that  the  Roman  pontiffs  had  them 
at  their  tables  every  day.  Tabella  Cibaria,  pages  15,  G7. 

To  conclude  our  short  catalogue  ruisonnd  of  Roman  gourmands, 
Vitf.lltus  the  Ernperor  was  treated  by  his  brother  Lucius  at 
a  feast,  among  other  food,  with  two  thousand  dishes  of  fish  and 
seven  thousand  dishes  of  poultry.  It  is  also  stated  that  in  four 
months  he  spent  above  seven  millions  sterling  upon  his  table  alone. 
This  imperial  gourmand  was,  however,  soon  deposed  and  slain  by 
the  Roman  people. 

The  discoveries  made  in  excavating  the  town  of  Pompeii,  near 
Naples,  which  was  destroyed  by  an  eruption  of  Mount  Vesuvius, 
a.  d.  79,  that  is,  above  1700  years  ago,  have  coniributed  not  a 
little  to  inform  us  concerning  many  of  the  arts  which  were  prac¬ 
tised  when  Home  was  in  the  zenith  of  her  power.  Pompeii  was 
covered  w'ith  loose  mud,  pumice  stone,  and  ashes,  and  not  lava. 
Three  baker's  shops  have  been  discovered  in  a  tolerable  state  of 
preservation  ;  the  mills,  the  oven,  the  kneading  troughs,  vessels 
for  water,  flour,  and  leaven.  The  mill-stones  were  rude,  and 
were  turned,  it  is  said,  by  hand:  among  the  Romans  the  lowest 
grades  of  society  were  thus  employed.  Asses  were  occasion¬ 
ally,  and  water-mills  sometimes  employed.  The  oven  is  said 
to  have  been  formed  with  considerable  attention  to  the  economy 
of  heat.  But  although  bread-corn  was  the  chief  article  of 
food  at  that  period,  bread  itself  was  not  of  an  early  date  ,• 
for  the  Romans  ate  their  corn  for  a  long  time  soddened  into 

*  This  Apicius,  who  lived  under  Trajan,  discovered  the  secret  of 
preserving  oysters  fresh,  which  he  sent  to  that  prince  from  Parthia, 
and  they  arrived  in  excellent  condition.  The  name  of  Apicius  was  also 
applied  to  various  ragouts,  and  in  fact,  it  is  said,  constituted  the  name 
of  a  sect  among  the  gourmands  of  Rome. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XV 


pap;  there  were  no  bakers  at  Rome  before  A.  u.  580,  previous  to 
which  every  family  made  its  own  bread  ;  this  was  done  by  the 
women  except  when  there  happened  to  be  men-cooks.  After  the 
invention  of  bread,  it  was  long  before  mills  were  known,  the 
grain  being  bruised  in  mortars  ;  the  bread  was  sometimes  baked 
in  moulds,  several  of  which  have  been  found  as  well  as  the  loaves, 
which  were  flat,  and  about  eight  inches  in  diameter. 

The  fruits  and  vf.getables  which  were  cultivated  by  the 
ancient  Romans  in  the  height  of  their  luxurious  prosperity,  were 
very  numerous.  They  had  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds ;  apples, 
more  than  twenty  kinds;  several  sorts  of  cherries;  chesnuts  ;  Jigs  ; 
medlars  ;  mulberries  ;  nuts  ;  pears,  more  than  thirty  sorts  ;  plums 
of  many  kinds;  quinces ;  services;  strawberries,  but  it  is  said  they 
were  not  good  ;  icalnuts ;  they  had  vines  and  olives,  of  course, 
to  both  of  which  great  attention  was  paid.  They  had  several 
of  the  gourd  tribe,  as  cucumbers,  melons,  and  some  others.  They 
had  also,  in  the  later  periods  of  their  prosperity,  the  citron,  and 
perhaps  the  lemon,  although  Virgil  wrote — 

“  Shaip-tasted  citrons  median  climes  produce  ; 

Ritter  the  rind,  but  generous  is  the  juice. ” 

Dryden,  Georgies,  b.  ii. 

But  the  orange  was  not  cultivated  in  Italy  till  the  fourteenth 
century.  They  had  also  the  peach  ;  and  the  apricot  is  mentioned 
by  Dioscorides,  who  lived  in  the  time  of  Nero,  under  the  name 
of  prcecocia.  All  of  these  last-named  fruits  are  natives  of  Asia, 
whence  they  were  brought  to  Italy. 

Of  culinary  vegetables  and  condiments  they  had  several  sorts; 
they  had  also  peas,  beans,  the  kidney  bean,  and  asparagus ;  the 
turnip,  the  carrot,  the  parsnip,  beet,  skirret,  and  the  radish; 
sorrel;  the  onion,  garlic,  and  the  leek;  endive,  lettuce,  succory, 
and  mustard.  Concerning  cabbage,  a  striking  anecdote  has  been 
related,  namely,  that  when  the  Emperor  Diocletian  had  resigned 
the  sceptre  and  retired  to  his  native  province,  employing  himself 
in  building,  planting,  &c.,  Maximian  urged  him  to  re  assume  the 
reins  cf  government ;  but  he  refused,  alleging  that  if  lie  couhl 
shew  him  the  cabbages  which  he  had  planted  with  his  own  hands 
at  Salona,  he  would  not  urge  him  to  quit  such  happiness  for 
power ;  that,  in  fact,  he  took  more  delight  in  cultivating  his 
little  garden  than  he  formerly  enjoyed  in  a  palace.  Cincinnatus 
left  his  plough,  being  chosen  dictator,  and  returned  when  his 
mission  was  accomplished,  to  plough  his  fields  again. 

A  curious  etymology  of  the  word  mustard  has  been  mentioned 
by  the  author  of  the  Tabella  Cibaria,  namely,  that  as  mustard  was 
a  hot  seed  and  its  quality  expressed  by  multum  ardet,  it  burns 
much,  it  was  expressed  in  old  French  by  moult  aide,  and  thus 
became  corrupted  to  mustard.  ' 

The  Romans  had  many  of  the  pot  and  sweet  herbs,  as  parsley, 
fennel,  chew'll,  &c.  ;  they  had  also  mushrooms  and  some  of  the 


XVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


sea-weed  tribe,  with  several  kinds  of  grain,  as  wheat,  beans,  millet, 
barley  and  rice*  which  were  regularly  sown  in  their  fields,  as 
may  be  seen  by  reference  to  the  Georgies  of  Virgil. 

Besides  oil,  wine,  cream,  and  perhaps  occasionally  butter, 
they  had  honey,  and  used  it  for  the  most  part  the  same  as  we  now 
do  sugar;  and  although  Pliny  speaks  of  sugar  as  being  produced 
in  Arabia  and  India,  saccharum  Arabia  fert,  sed  laudatius  India, 
and  Lucretius  of  the  sweet  juices  of  the  seed  or  cane,  dulces  in 
arundine  sued;  yet,  from  the  great  attention  paid  to  honey  and 
the  protection  of  the  bee,  it  seems  probable  that  sugar  was  among 
them  in  very  little  esteem.  Indeed  Virgil  has  devoted  the  whole 
of  his  fourth  Georgic  to  the  management  of  the  Bee.  These  are 
the  introductory  lines  to  the  Georgics,  as  translated  by 
Dryden. 

“  What  makes  a  plenteous  harvest,  when  to  turn 
The  fruitful  soil,  and  when  to  sow  the  corn  ; 

The  care  of  sheep,  of  oxen,  and  of  kine  ; 

And  how  to  raise  on  elms  the  teeming  vine  ; 

The  birth  and  genius  of  the  frugal  bee, 

I  sing,  Maecenas,  and  I  sing  to  thee/’  t 

That  they  had  several  foreign  condiments  we  cannot  doubt,  such 
as  pepper ;  and  some  of  the  spices,  as  cinnamon  ;  the  first  is  men¬ 
tioned  by  Persius,  (Tolle  recens  primus  piper  e  sitiente  camelo,  Sat. 
x.)  and  the  second  by  Pliny. 

Some  of  the  animals  they  employed  as  food  are  mentioned 
above;  but  to  the  tribes  of  oxen,  sheep,  and  goats,  with  their 
calves  and  kids,  constant  attention  was  paid  ;  animals  of  the  deer 
kind  were  in  request :  the  wild  boar  was  eaten,  so  were  domes¬ 
ticated  foicls,  &c.  ;  but,  according  to  Martial,  the  hare  was 
the  chief  among  the  quadrupeds,  as  was  the  thrush  among  the 
birds. 

“  Inter  ares  turdus,  si  quit  me  judice  certet, 

Inter  quadmpedes  gloria  prima  lepus.” 

The  flamingo,  called  by  the  ancients  Phxnicopterus,  was  also 

*  Same  hoc  ptisanarium  orryzac,  Horat.  lib.  ii.  3. 

f  The  chief  errors  in  the  Georgics  of  Virgil  are  those  which  direct 
that  agricultural  operations  should  be  performed  on  certain  days  only,  as 
“  The  lucky  days  in  each  revolving  moon 

For  labour  choose  :  the  fifth  be  sure  to  shun.” 

Than  this  nothing  can  be  more  puerile.  Such  superstitions  pervaded, 
more  or  less,  almost  the  wdiole  of  ancient  Grecian  and  Roman  Lite¬ 
rature,  and  unfortunately  have  been  too  copiously  prinkled  over 
our  own :  they  still  pervade,  in  some  degree,  the  minds  of  our 
rural  and  illiterate  population  ;  but  the  SCHOOLMASTER  is  abroad,  and 
will,  we  trust,  get  rid  of  such  follies,  and  show  even  the  most 
ignorant  that  Gardening  and  Cookery  may  have  reason  for  their 
guide. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XVII 


a  bird  in  high  repute  as  food  among  the  Romans  ;  that  Apicius, 
according  to  Pliny,  discovered  the  exquisite  relish  of  the  flamin¬ 
go’s  tongue,  and  a  new  method  of  seasoning  it !  But  modern  times 
seem  to  have  very  much  neglected  tins  bird  except  as  an  article 
of  curiosity  ;  one  was  exhibited  alive  in  the  Zoological  Gardens  in 
the  Regent’s  Park  ;  but  it  did  not  live  long. 

It  is  remarkable  that  milk,  &c.  was  employed  by  the  Romans  as 
a  sort  of  syllabub,  as  the  following  couplet  of  Virgil  proves  :  we 
must  not  forget  that  they  had  not,  as  far  as  we  know,  acquired  the 
art  of  distilling  the  spirit  from  wine  or  any  other  fermented  liquor, 
and  hence  one  of  the  reasons  why  wine  is  so  much  extolled  in  all 
the  writings  of  the  ancients. 

“  Let  every  swain  adore  her*  power  divine. 

And  milk  and  honey  mix.  with  sparkling  wine.” 

Dkyden,  Georgies,  B.  i. 

Eggs  were  in  some  request  by  the  Romans  ;  those  of  the  pea¬ 
cock  were  considered  a  great  dainty  ;  it  is  said  that  Q.  Hortensius 
paid  twenty-pence  for  each  egg,  many  of  which  were  brought  to 
his  table  when  he  became  augur.  They  formed  also  a  part  of  the 
first  course  at  the  Roman  entertainments  ;  hence  the  proverb 
ab  ovo  usque  ad  mala, — from  the  egg  to  the  apple,  or  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end. 

Of  Pastry  too  the  Romans  were  very  fond.  According  to 
Athen,eiis,  it  wras  at  first  nothing  more  than  a  finer  sort  of 
bread,  to  which  honey,  sweetmeats,  comfits,  and  preserved  fruits 
were  added.  So  that  we  may  easily  guess  it  was  formed  of  simi¬ 
lar  indigestible  materials  to  the  pastry  of  the  present  time.  See 
more  concerning  ancient  pastry  in  the  Tabella  Cibaria,  page  90. 

We  may  judge  a  little  of  the  cookery  of  the  Romans  from 
Juvenal’s  eleventh  satire,  where  he  describes  an  entertainment  to 
which  he  invites  his  friend  Persicus:  the  description  begins  thus  : — 

“  Ike  Tiburtino  veniet  pinguissimus  agro 

Hasdulus,  et  toto  grege  mollior,  inscius  herbee ,”  &c. 

But  we  will  avail  ourselves  of  the  translation  of  this  Bill  of  Fare, 
made  by  Congreve. 

■ - “  From  my  own  small  farm  the  tenderest  kid 

And  fattest  of  my  flock,  a  suckling  yet 
That  ne’er  had  nourishment  but  from  the  teat ; 

No  bitter  willow-tops  have  been  its  food, 

Scarce  grass  ;  its  veins  have  more  of  milk  than  blood  j 
Next  that  shall  mountain  ’sparagus  be  laid,f 
Pull’d  by  some  plain  but  cleanly  country-maid. 

*  Ceres,  the  goddess  of  corn  and  harvest. 

t  Asparagus  was  occasionally  gathered  on  the  mountains  by  the  country 
people.  We  find  also,  that  sometimes  lobsters  were  served  up  with  aspa¬ 
ragus  at  Rome,  Juvenal,  sat.  v.,  and  that  the  crab  ( cammarus )  was  also 
occasionally  there  eaten.  On  turning  to  the  British  Poets,  vol.  xii.  page 


XV1I1 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  largest  eggs  yet  warm  within  the  nest. 

Together  with  the  hens  which  laid  them,  drest. 

Clusters  of  grapes  preserved  for  half  a  year, 

Which  plump  and  fresh  as  on  the  vines  appear  ; 

Apples,  of  a  ripe  flavour,  fresh  and  fair, 

Mixt  with  the  Syrian  and  the  Lignian  pear, 

Mellow’d  by  winter  from  their  cruder  juice. 

Light  of  digestion  now  and  fit  for  use.’’’ 

The  satirist  then  goes  on  to  state  that  such  food  as  this  would 
have  been  formerly  accounted  riot  in  a  senator;  but  that  now 
scarcely  a  slave  has  a  dinner  in  which  are  not  the  well-dressed 
paps  of  a  pregnant  sow.  Heretofore,  continues  he,  it  was  thought 
a  sumptuous  treat  even  on  birth-days  and  other  festivals  to  prepare 
a  salt,  dry  flitch  of  bacon  ;  if  they  had  fresh  meat ,  it  was  delici¬ 
ous  fare !  Of  some  of  the  ornaments  of  the  dinner  table  among 
the  luxurious  Romans,  we  may  judge  by  the  Satirist’s  negatives  in 
the  following  lines  : 

“  No  side-boards  then  with  gilded  plate  were  dress’d  ; 

No  sweating  slaves  with  massy  dishes  press’d  ; 

Expensive  riot  was  not  understood, 

But  earthen  platters  held  the  homely  food.” 

Concerning  the  Fish  eaten  by  the  Romans,  it  is  necessary  that 
a  word  or  two  should  be  said.  As  in  their  gfeat  prosperity  they 
had  the  command  of  nearly  the  whole  Mediterranean,  and  most 
of  the  rivers  which  empty  themselves  into  it,  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  they  availed  themselves  of  the  opportunity  which  such 
sources  of  obtaining  fish  atforded  them.  At  the  present  time  fifty 
different  kinds  of  fish  are  caught  in  the  vicinity  of  Tarento ;  and 
we  have  no  reason  to  suppose  that  they  were  not  as  numerous  in 
ancient  times.  The  Romans  specifically  mention  the  salmon,  the 
sturgeon,  the  turbot,  the  eel,  the  lamprey,  the  mullet,  the  carp,  & c., 
and  also  the  herring,  ( alec  or  halee,)  but  this  word  has  been 
rather  thought  to  apply  to  all  kinds  of  small  flsh  as  well  as  some¬ 
times  to  a  pickle  made  from  their  entrails,  &c.  Hence  some  per¬ 
sons  translate  the  word  alec,  found  in  Horace,  anchovy,  a  fish 
which  the  modern  Italians  have  in  great  perfection,  and  whence 
they  are  imported  in  small  barrels,  salted,  to  this  county, 
(England,)  as  a  bonne  bouche  well  known  to  all  gourmands. 
That  the  Romans  sometimes  obtained  fish  from  the  Euxine  Sea, 
part  of  a  line  from  Persius  informs  us,  super  das  advelie  Ponto.  The 
saperda  is  said  to  have  been  an  indifferent  fish  ;  but  it  is  probable 

680,  is  a  translation  of  Juvenal  by  Mr.  Bowles,  where  we  find  that 
squilla,  which  means,  no  doubt,  a  lobster,  (  Quae  fertur  domino  squilla  ;  et 
quibye  undique  septa  asparayis — Delphin  edit,  of  1722,  now  before  us,) 
has  been  translated  sturgeon.  This  is  murdering  an  ancient  with  a  ven¬ 
geance.  The  Romans  had,  most  probably,  the  sturgeon  at  their  tables 
occasionally  ;  hut  they  called  that  fish  acipenser. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XIX 


that  other  fish,  such  as  the  sturgeon,  might  have  been  obtained 
from  the  same  sea,  if  not  in  the  Mediterranean.  Oysters,  lobsters, 
and  crabs  have  been  mentioned  above.  They  had  also  the  mus¬ 
sel,  the  cray  ,  and  several  other  shell-fish.  We  shall  dismiss  the 
Roman  cookery  with  a  summary  of  a  supper  given  by  a  Roman 
miser,  and  described  by  Horace  (sat.  viii.  lib.  ii.)  In  a  previous 
satire  he  gives  some  directions  for  choosing  eggs  and  cabbage,  and 
how  to  make  a  tough  old  hen  tender  by  immersing  it  in  Falernian 
wTine.  Kis  directions  for  choosing  eggs  and  cabbage  we  do  not 
approve ;  but  those  for  mushrooms  are  similar  to  our  own :  (see 
page  231.) 

Pratensibus  optima  funyis 
Natura  est :  aids  male  creditur. 

“  Meadow  mushrooms  are  of  the  best  kind  ;  others  have  an  ill 
credit.” 

1  he  supper  consisted  of  a  icild  boar *  ( Lucanus  aper, )  surrounded 
with  pungent  condiments,  such  as  rapa,  lettuce,  radishes,  skirrets, 
anchovies,  and  dregs  of  sour  wine  or  vinegar.  Then,  when  these 
had  been  to  a  certain  extent  demolished,  wines  of  various  kinds 
were  introduced,  such  as  Ccecubum,  Chinan,  Alban,  and  Falernian. 
Then  came  fowls,  oysters,  and  fish: 

Nos,  inqaam,  ccenamus  ares,  conchylia ,  pisces. 

of  which  we  partook,  says  the  historian  :  while  Porcius  became 
ridiculous  by  swallowing  whole  cakes  without  any  manducation. 
A  turbot  and  a  plaice  (or  flounder)  made  also  a  part  of  this 
supper.  A  lamprey  surrounded  with  floating  shrimps  was  next 
brought  in : 

Affertur  squillas  inter  murcena  natantes. 

These  were  mixed  up  W'ith  oil  and  pickle  ( garo )  from  the  juices 
of  Iberian  fish  and  wine  of  five  years  old.  White  pepper,  rocket, 
and  elecampane,  contributed  their  aid  as  condiments. 

But,  unfortunately,  in  the  midst  of  the  feast  the  tapestry 
fell  down  and  spoiled  the  entertainment ;  and  thus  ended  our 
!  miser’s  supper !  and  thus  must  we  end  our  description  ;  those 
who  desire  to  know  more  concerning  the  feast  will  refer  to 
Horace. 

Italian  Cookery.  Notwithstanding  the  decline  and  fall  of 
the  Roman  Government,  when,  in  the  fourth  century,  the  seat  of 
the  empire  was  transferred  by  Constantine  from  Rome  to 
Byzantium,  called  from  that  period  Constantinople ;  and  the  subse¬ 
quent  irruptions  of  the  Goths  and  Vandals  of  the  north  of  Europe, 
some  knowledge  of  the  luxurious  cookery  of  the  Romans  re- 

*  Horace  does  not  infoim  us  how  this  wild  boar  was  dressed,  but,  we 
suppose,  rousted  or  baked  ;  we  conclude  also  that  it  was  a  young  one. 


XX 


INTRODUCTION. 


mained  among  the  Italians  through  many  ages.  Of  that,  or  even 
of  the  modern  cookery  of  Italy  our  notice  cannot  be  extensive, 
although  in  this  country  we  have  Italian  warehouses  where  many 
of  the  produciions  of  Italy  are  to  be  obtained.*  We  have  an 
excellent  work  called  the  Italian  Confectioner,  or  Complete  Eco¬ 
nomy  of  Desserts,  by  G-  J.  Jarrin,  a  book  far  in  advance  of 
any  which  have  heretofore  appeared  on  this  branch  of  the  art. 
We  must,  nevertheless,  request  the  reader  to  refer  to  what  we 
have  said  in  our  Xlth,  XI  1th,  and  XHIth  chapters  concern¬ 
ing  the  art  of  the  confectioner. 

According  to  Loudon,  Encyclopedia  of  Gardening,  page  22, 
although  the  Italians  have  increased  the  varieties  of  the  species 
of  fruit  cultivated  by  the  Romans,  they  have  made  few  additions 
to  the  original  sorts,  if  we  except  the  orange  and  the  pine-apple. 
The  orange  is  supposed  to  have  been  introduced  between  the  time 
of  Pliny  and  Palladius.  Of  this  fruit  they  have  a  great  many 
varieties :  at  Florence  and  Milan  they  require  housing  in  the 
winter;  but  at  Nice,  Genoa,  and  Nervi  they  bear  the  common 
winter  in  the  open  air.  Peaches  grow  in  the  vicinity  of  Rome 
and  at  Naples  on  standard  trees,  and  arrive  at  great  perfection; 
in  this  fruit  the  Italians  excel ;  they  have  few  nectarines  or 
apricots,  and  not  many  plums;  their  gages  are,  however,  very  good. 
Cherries  are  also  plenty  and  good,  especially  in  Tuscany.  The 
gooseberry,  the  currant,  the  raspberry,  and  strawberry,  all  of 
which  except  the  gooseberry  are  natives  of  the  Appenines,  thrive 
but  indifferently  in  Italian  gardens.  Apples  and  pears  are  good  in 
the  north,  but  indifferent  in  the  warmer  parts.  Services  abound  in 
Piedmont  and  Lombardy.  Melons  are  very  line  ;  near  Rome  and 
Naples  the  love-apple,  egg-plant,  and  capsicum  are  cultivated  for 
the  kitchen.  The  potatoe  grows  well  every  where ;  cauliflowers 
and  the  broccolis  are  also  good.  But  in  consequence  of  the  dry¬ 
ness  of  the  climate  many  otherculinary  vegetables  are  indifferent; 
indeed  their  value,  according  to  Loudon,  is  not  known  to  the 
greater  part  of  the  wealthy  Italians  ;  but  this  is  in  some  sort  made 
up  by  their  very  exquisite  fruits,  nuts,  and  almonds. 

Almost  the  only  plants  found  in  cottage  gardens  in  Italy  are 
gotirds  and  Indian  corn  ; — in  Tuscany  and  Lombardy  some  of  the 
cabbage  tribe,  the  kidney  bean,  and  occasionally  the  potatoe  in  the 
garden  of  the  farmer  is  somewhat  better. 

The  vine,  the  olive,  and  the_/?g  belong  to  the  rural  economy  of  the 
country,  as  well  as  corn  of  most  kinds. 

Besides  oxen,  sheep,  and  goats,  the  Italians  have  deer ;  as  well 

*  Such  as  olive-oil,  preserved  olives,  Sc c.  An  ingenious  friend  of  ours 
contends  that  olives  are  very  wholesome  ;  and  he  accounts  for  this  by  the  pro¬ 
cess  which  they  undergo  in  being  preserved  or  rather  pickled  :  they  are 
placed  between  layers  of  wood-ashes,  the  carbonate  of  potash  or  other 
alkali  in  which  combines  with  the  oil  of  the  olives,  and  forms  with  it  a 
sort  of  soap.  We  cannot  agree  with  this  doctrine,  or  consider  the 
unripe  olive  a  wholesome  condiment. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXI 


as  the  wild  boar,  the  ibex,  and  other  animals  of  the  chase  in  their 
woods  and  upon  their  mountains. 

Fish  are  numerous.  The  tunny  fishery  has  always  been  more 
or  less  extensive  in  most  parts  of  the  Mediterranean.  They  are 
frequently  salted  and  exported  to  various  places.  The  abdomen 
is  reckoned  the  most  delicate  part ;  it  is  cut  up,  preserved,  and  sold 
to  the  citizens  of  Rome  under  the  name  of  taremtello. 

The  young  tunny  under  a  year  old  was  called  pelamis  by  the 
ancients  ;  they  enter  annually  from  the  Black  Sea  in  shoals  now  as 
formerly,  and  are  taken  in  large  quantities  in  various  parts  of  the 
Mediterranean.* 

A  country  having  so  many  different  governments,  and  situated  in 
different  climates,  from  the  cold  regions  of  the  Alps  to  the  warmth 
of  the  Calabrias,  presents  a  considerable  variety  in  its  food  and 
the  preparation  of  it. 

There  is  Venice,  that  was  once,  according  to  Byron, 

“  The  pleasant  place  of  all  festivity. 

The  revel  of  the  earth,  the  masque  of  Italy/' 

There  is  “  Etrurian  Athens,”  as  Byron  calls  Florence  ; 

“  Girt  by  her  theatre  of  hills,  she  reaps 

Her  corn,  her  wine  and  oil,  and  plenty  leaps 
To  laughing  life.” 

There  is  Rome,  that  “city  of  the  soul,”  where  may  now  be  read 
“  the  moral  of  all  human  tales.” 

There  is  Naples,  encircled  with  its  beautiful  vineyards,  and  the 
terrible  Vesuvius  frowning  near  ;  whence,  with  a  bound,  we  may 
alight  on  Sicily,  and  there  survey  the  immense  chestnut  groves  of 
Etna  ;  then  with  a  lightning  glance  let  the  orange  groves  and  olive 
yards  of  Nice  arise  before  us ;  and  passing  these  behold  the 
marshy  rice  fields  in  the  vicinity  of  Turin  ;  while  a  stride  over 
mount  Cenis  will  afford  us  excellent  trout. 

As  Sicily  is  closely  connected  with  Italy  and  Naples,  we  shall 
look  at  the  cookery  of  this  island  first. 

The  Sicilians  are  said  to  be  generally  temperate,  although  there 
are  occasional  exceptions.  At  an  entertainment  the  guests  taste  of 
all  the  dishes  which  are  handed  round  to  them  by  the  servants 
after  being  carved.  The  feasts  of  the  great  begin  with  soup 
followed  by  maccaroni,  vegetables  variously  dressed,  and  shell 
fish.  During  the  different  courses  the  table  remains  garnished 
with  plates  of  raw  ham,  anchovies,  olives,  and  fresh  figs  and 
melons  when  in  season  ;  then  come  bouilli,  huge  fish,  made  dishes, 
roast  meats,  salad,  luscious  pastry,  and,  lastly,  fruit  and  coffee. 

*  For  Careme’s  opinion  of  the  Cookery  of  Italy,  see  forward,  ander  the 
Cookery  of  France. 

1 


XXII 


INTRODUCTION. 


Wine  is  plentifully  drunk  during  the  repast.  Every  one  rises 
with  the  ladies  ;  this  practice  greatly  contributes  to  prevent  excess. 
A  rage  to  excel  in  the  size  of  their  fish  at  grand  entertainments 
yet  exists  :  a  whole  tunny  surrounded  with  mullet  is  sometimes 
placed  upon  the  festive  board. 

Besides  these,  snails,  ink-fish,  frogs,  hawks,  jackdaws,  and 
small  birds  of  every  kind  are  eaten  ;  maccaroni  with  cheese 
grated  over  it  is  the  favourite  dish  of  all  classes.  A  great  deal 
of  that  consumed  in  this  country  is  manufactured  here  by  Jews. 

The  Sicilian  bread  is  very  line  ;  it  is  strewed  over  with  the 
sweet  seeds  of  an  indigenous  plant,  the  Gengiolina.  They  eat 
great  quantities  of  salads,  fruit  pulse  and  vegetables,  with 
such  condiments  as  cinnamon  and  other  spices,  sugar,  oil,  and 
garlic. 

Their  usual  drinks  are  light  wines,  lemonade,  and  orgeat;  to 
beer  and  tea  they  are  strangers  except  medicinally.  Iced  creams 
are  daily  taken  ;  and  iced  water  at  their  meals  corrected  sometimes 
by  zambu,  a  spirit  distilled  from  aniseed. 

Sicily  was  the  granary  of  ancient  Rome,  and  is  still  capable  of 
supporting  a  population  much  larger  than  its  own.  Corn  is  the 
main  produce  of  the  island,  and  is  kept  in  public  magazines,  in  some 
places  in  excavations  of  rocks,  made  water-proof.  It  has  been  kept 
good  in  such  places  for  a  century.  The  olive  grows  to  a  larger  size 
than  in  Italy  ;  the  tree  has  attained  sometimes  the  age  of  seven  or 
eight  hundred  years.  The  oil  obtained  from  it  is  nevertheless  very 
indifferent,  being  fit  only  for  soap.  The  Pistachio  nut  is  also 
cultivated  ;  and  a  large  bean  which  supplies  the  place  of  potatoes, 
and  forms  a  considerable  portion  of  the  food  of  both  men  and 
animals.  Honey  is  also  in  much  estimation.  The  vineyards 
are  well  cultivated  ;  Marsala  produces  a  wine  well  known  in 
various  parts  of  the  world.  Of  cattle  the  sheep  is  the  prin¬ 
cipal. 

In  Palermo  the  mode  of  living  of  the  higher  ranks  differs  little 
from  those  of  Naples. 

The  Sicilian  peasantry  are,  however,  extremely  poor,  and  live 
miserably  ;  worse  than  even  those  of  Calabria  :  see  forward. 

Maccaroni ,  the  chief  food  of  the  poorer  and  the  favourite  dish 
of  all  classes  of  Neapolitans,  is  made  from  a  small  hard-grained 
wheat  grown  in  that  part  of  Russia  which  borders  on  the  Black 
Sea,  and  is  shipped  at  Odessa  and  Taganrok.  The  grano  duro,  the 
name  given  to  that  wheat  by  the  Neapolitans,  is  now  cultivated  in 
Apulia,  and  is  brought  from  several  ports  of  the  Adriatic  to  Na¬ 
ples :  the  best  maccaroni  is  made  entirely  of  the  grano  duro ;  but 
sometimes  inferior  qualities  contain  also  soft  wheat.  The  macca¬ 
roni  is  in  long  round  strings  about  the  size  of  a  tobacco  pipe; 
these  strings  are  made  by  a  very  simple  process  :  the  wheat  being 
coarsely  ground  is  mixed  with  water  only,  then  well  kneaded  into 
a  tenacious  dough  and  passed  through  a  number  of  holes  by 
pressui'e,  the  sizes  of  which  determine  the  name  to  be  given  to  the 
substance  :  that  of  the  largest  diameter  is  called  maccaroni;  the 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXIU 


smaller  vermicelli ;  and  the  smallest  fedelini.  Besides  these  some 
of  the  dough  is  made  into  a  kind  of  ribands,  other  is  made  like 
sheets  of  paper,  some  into  round  balls,  &c.,  to  all  of  which  dis¬ 
tinctive  names  are  assigned.  Maccaroni  is  also  made  at  Genoa; 
but  the  best  is  said  to  be  that  made  about  La  Torre  del  Greco  and 
La  Torre  Annunziata,  two  towns  near  Naples;  thence  it  is  exported 
in  considerable  quantity. 

In  respectable  Neapolitan  families  maccaroni  is  on  the  dinner- 
table  twice  a  week — in  many  every  day.  It  is  dressed  in  various 
ways ;  but  it  is  usually  boiled  in  water  till  it  acquires  a  greenish 
tinge,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  is  generally  employed,  care  being 
taken  not  to  break  the  strings,  as  its  length  constitutes  much  of  its 
beauty.  When  done,  it  is  strained  off  and  then  saturated  with 
some  strong  meat  gravy,  sprinkled  throughout  with  finely  grated 
cheese,  and  served  up  in  a  tureen  in  unbroken  strings.  Sometimes, 
instead  of  gravy,  the  maccaroni  is  served  up  with  a  little  butter, 
grated  cheese,  and  the  addition  of  tomato-sauce.  It  is  said  that 
thus  prepared  it  is  nutritious  and  easy  of  digestion.  But  we 
doubt  whether  fifteen  minutes’  boiling  can  be  sufficient  to  render 
maccaroni  a  proper  food  for  the  human  stomach. 

That  the  lower  classes  of  the  Neapolitans,  who  are  perhaps  too 
often  on  the  verge  of  intense  hunger,  not  to  say  starvation,  may 
find  it  suitable  for  them  we  entertain  no  doubt ;  more  especially 
as  they  are  very  often  obliged  to  be  satisfied  with  Indian  corn 
flavoured  with  onions  or  garlic,  or  with  greens  boiled  in  water 
and  a  lump  of  lard  thrown  in  to  flavour  them;  and  more  especi¬ 
ally  as  many  do  not  obtain  any  meat  for  months  together;  hence 
maccaroni  becomes  a  delectable  treat  and  esteemed  a  substitute 
for  every  eatable.  The  venders  of  this  commodity  are  established 
in  every  corner  of  the  city  of  Naples. 

The  land  in  the  vicinity  of  Naples  is  well  cultivated  ;  it  is 
chiefly  covered  with  vines  trained  to  pollard  elm-trees.  Beneath, 
wheat  and  other  crops  are  raised  which  are  not  much  injured  by 
the  vines,  although  the  bread  of  Naples  is  not  so  white  as  that  of 
Spain  or  France. 

The  wines  are  many  of  them  strong,  but  scarcely  any  have 
much  flavour,  from  the  absence  of  some  essential  oil  to  which 
the  flavour  is  chiefly  owing,  and  which  constitutes  what  the 
French  call  Bouquet.  Lachryma  Christi  wine  is  made  on  Vesu¬ 
vius;  it  is  a  fine  wine  when  kept  some  years,  and  is  obtained 
both  red  and  ichite.  See  wine  generally,  pages  245  and  394. 

Corn  is  trodden  out  by  either  cattle  or  horses,  and  in  this 
part  of  Italy  as  well  as  in  Sicily  it  is  still  kept  in  subterranean 
chambers  in  many  places.  The  shepherds  in  the  Abruzzi  lead 
literally  a  pastoral  life,_and  are  supported  by  the  most  frugal 
fare,  their  supper  often  consisting  of  bread  made  of  Indian  corn, 
raw  onions,  and  a  little  wine.  They  make,  however,  various 
kinds  of  cheese  from  sheep,  cow,  and  buffalo  milk,  lor  which 
they  are  famed. 

In  the  province  of  Naples,  called  by  some  Campania  the  Blest, 


XXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


rows  of  elms  and  mulberry  trees  are  festooned  with  the  vine  ;  the 
fig,  the  lemon,  and  the  orange  flourish  in  the  gardens,  while  the 
sides  of  the  mountains  are  covered  with  forests  of  chestnut-trees 
that  afford  an  important  article  of  food  for  the  poor  ;  the  declivi¬ 
ties  are  occupied  by  the  olive.  The  farmer  is  a  peasant ;  the 
whole  family  eat  with  their  fingers  out  of  the  same  dish,  and 
drink  out  of  the  same  glass.  Pot-houses  or  wine-shops  are  very 
numerous,  and  to  these,  as  in  other  countries,  the  idlers  resort. 

The  grapes  when  ripe  are  gathered  and  then  bruised  in  a  vat 
by  the  feet  of  a  man  ;  the  liquor  then  drains  into  another  vat,  in 
which  it  ferments. 

A  Calabrian  peasant  will  dine  off  a  handful  of  lupines,  a  few 
chestnuts,  ar.d  two  ounces  of  bread.  When  he  can  afford  to  drink 
the  common  wine,  he  pays  from  one  penny  to  two  pence  per  quart 
for  it.  They  can  rarely  afford  to  purchase  animal  food,  or  cheese, 
or  butter. 

It  should  be  here  also  mentioned  that  wild  pigeons  are  taken  in 
large  numbers,  in  September  and  October,  near  La  Cava,  a  town 
situated  in  a  defile  of  the  mountains. 

The  abstemiousness  cf  the  Mediterranean  sailors  is  surprising  : 
bread,  leguines,  olives,  salt-fish,  and  a  little  maccaroui,  are  their 
sole  support ;  they  rarely  taste  meat. 

The  climate  of  Calabria  varies  according  to  its  situation  :  in  the 
sheltered  plains  are  the  sugar-cane,  aloes,  and  the  date.  It  has 
also  grain  of  every  kind  and  wine,  which,  if  properly  managed, 
would  be  equal  to  any  perhaps  in  the  world.  The  olive  is  in 
profusion,  and  its  oil  is  kept  in  cisterns  dug  in  the  earth  or  out  of 
the  rock.  Liquorice-root  grows  wild,  and  manna  abounds  in  the 
forests.  Immense  droves  of  horned  cattle  exist,  and  their 
flocks  are  as  numerous  as  their  herds.  Game  of  every  sort  is 
also  abundant.  Fish  is  in  great  plenty ;  the  sword-fish  itself  sup¬ 
plies  food  to  a  large  number  of  the  inhabitants,  and  the  tunny 
forms  a  lucrative  branch  of  commerce  ;  but  amidst  all  these  na¬ 
tural  advantages  the  peasantry  are  wretched  ;  the  pigs  live  fami¬ 
liarly  with  the  inmates  of  the  cottage  ;  all  appears  misery  and 
almost  desolation. 

Among  the  animals  of  the  chase  the  wild  boar  is  found  in 
various  parts  of  the  Appennines  ;  the  ibex  is  also  an  inhabitant 
of  the  same  regions;  the  stag  and  deer  are  common.  Most  of 
the  rivers  and  coasts  abound  with  fish.  Here,  as  in  other  Catholic 
states,  the  cookery  is  much  affected  by  religion.  Salt-Jish  is  in 
considerable  request  in  almost  every  part  of  Italy. 

Tuscany  contains  important  cities,  among  which  Florence  lifts 
its  head  as  chief ;  and  here  modern  Italian  cookery  must  be  and 
doubtless  is  in  the  greatest  perfection.  Its  oil,  grapes,  and  wines 
are  abundant,  while  exquisite  fruits  of  various  kinds  supply  the 
elegant  dessert.  The  Florentines,  according  to  a  recent  traveller, 
are  distinguished  by  their  conviviality;  they  think  it  a  great  dis¬ 
tinction  to  have  plenty  to  eat.  “  I  am  now  going  to  dine  or  to 
eat  extremely  well,  after  which  I  shall  rest  awhile,  and  then  I 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXV 


shall  sup,”  is  often  said.  One  would  be  inclined  to  suspect  that 
some  of  the  old  days  of  the  luxurious  Romans  had  returned  to 
Florence ,  which,  as  well  as  Lucca,  is  famous  for  its  olive-oil. 

What  has  been  said  of  Naples  and  the  Caiabrias  will  apply  in 
great  measure  to  the  cookery  and  food  of  Rome  ;  before  which, 
and  indeed  before  several  other  Italian  states,  lies  the  Maremma, 
a  broad  stripe  of  flat  country  beginning  at  the  mountains  of  Genoa, 
and  extending  along  the  sea-shore  to  the  Caiabrias.  The  chief 
products  of  this  extensive  tract  are  corn  and  cattle;  but  the  neigh¬ 
bouring  towns  are  surrounded  with  vineyards,  orchards,  and  gar¬ 
dens. 

We  have  been  informed  that  the  marquis  P.  of  Rome  has  made 
some  very  good  champagne  from  his  vineyard  near  Arietto ; 
an  intelligent  friend  of  ours  partook  of  it,  and  he  says  that  it  was 
dry  and  sparkling  without  the  sweetness  of  common,  but  more 
like  sillery  champagne. 

At  Bologna,  which  every  one  knows  is  famed  for  the  sausages 
of  that  name,  the  market  is  well  supplied  with  fresh-water  fish 
from  the  ponds  which  lie  between  that  city  and  the  sea. 

Near  Lucca  the  hills  are  covered  with  chestnut  trees  to  the  very 
tops  ;  the  poor  live  mostly  here  upon  the  nuts;  they  are  eaten  either 
boiled  or  roasted;  in  both  cases  the  skins  are  rejected:  when  these 
fail  there  is  a  famine.  The  hills  are  sold,  not  by  the  acre,  but  by 
the  quantity  of  chestnuts  which  they  produce.  The  valleys  are 
full  of  olives  and  vines.  The  land  bears  two  crops  annually,  one 
of  wheat,  the  other  of  Indian  corn,  which  is  sowm  immediately 
after  the  first  is  reaped. 

Parma  is  famous  for  its  cheese  called  Parmasan,  which  is  now 
made  at  Lodi.  Although  it  would  be  and  is  esteemed  in  England 
good  cheese,  we  do  not  think  it  better  than  our  Stilton,  or  good 
Chedder  or  Cheshire  cheese. 

The  neighbourhood  of  Turin  is  chiefly  distinguished  by  its 
rice-fields,  which  are  covered  with  water  about  six  or  seven  inches 
deep  during  the  period  of  its  growth  and  till  the  crop  is  ripe. 
The  seeds  are  sometimes  sown,  it  is  said,  upon  the  water. 

And  if  the  traveller  should  be  disposed  to  pass  over  Mount  Cenis, 
he  will  find  excellent  trout  kept  alive  in  a  cistern  at  the  inn  near 
the  summit  of  the  mountain,  and  where  he  may  have  it  cooked  in 
his  own  w7ay  at  a  few  minutes’  notice.  The  trout  is  brought  from 
a  lake  on  the  top  of  the  mountain.  These  fish  are  also  kept  on 
the  Simplon  and  other  of  the  Alpine  passes  in  the  same  way  as  on 
Mount  Cenis. 

Of  the  fish  afforded  by  the  Italian  Lakes  it  is  scarcely  neces¬ 
sary  to  speak.  The  Lake  de  Gap.da  abounds  in  fish,  particularly 
the  carpians,  which  Linnaeus  thought  to  be  a  species  of  salmon; 
its  flavour  is  exquisite.  Lake  Maggiore  is  also  well  supplied 
with  fish,  among  which  trout,  perch,  and  tench  are  prominent. 

Of  Nice,  a  maritime  town  and  a  fine  climate  on  the  banks  of 
the  Lake  Como,  we  may  observe  that  its  fruits,  among  which 
oranges  and  lemons  are  in  profusion,  are  exquisite;  that  a  list  of 

c 


XXVI 


1 NTRODUCTION. 


the  fish  taken  near  it  is  now  before  us,  in  which  are  several  of 
forty-two  genera,  the  whole  number  of  species  being  about  one 
hundred.  Among  these  are  the  eel,  the  anchovy,  the  sprat,  the 
whiting,  the  black  goby,  the  comnis  mullet,  the  milts  and  roes  of 
which  form  the  Botargo  of  the  Italians,  by  being  taken  out  entire, 
covered  with  salt  for  a  few  hours,  then  pressed  between  boards 
and  dried  in  the  sun,  when  they  are  fit  for  use  ;  the  mackerel,  the 
red  surmullet,  the  John  dory,  &c.  &c.,  and  the  torpedo,  the  last  of 
which  no  one  would  desire  to  touch  while  alive,  although  when 
dead  the  French  (and  perhaps  the  Italians  too)  dress  and  eat  it. 

There  are  also  many  of  the  ( spanis )  gilt-head  tribe  of  fishes 
obtained  at  Nice.  The  spanis  auratus,  or  lunulatcd  gilt  head, 
although  a  coarse  fish,  was  esteemed  by  the  ancient  Romans,  par¬ 
ticularly  when  it  was  fed  upon  oysters  from  the  Lucrine  lake. 
This  fish  is  caught  in  abundance  at  certain  seasons  in  the  Medi¬ 
terranean.  There  are  also  several  of  the  gurnard  (inglo)  tribe 
at  Nice  ;  the  gray  gurnard,  the  piper,  the  cuckow  gurnard,  the 
tab-fish,  and  one  or  two  more.  Between  Nice  and  Genoa  are 
immense  groves  of  lemon-trees ;  and  what,  forming  an  acidu¬ 
lated  drink,  is  superior,  in  a  warm  climate,  to  the  juice  of  the 
lemon?  Palm-trees  also  grow  there,  the  leaves  of  which  are 
sent  to  Rome  to  decorate  the  churches.  We  must  now  quit 
the  classic  soil  of  Italy,  and  although  we  shall  not  detain  the 
reader  long  in  the  Tyrol  or  in  the  south  of  Germany,  we  may  just 
observe  that  at  Saltsburgli  in  Austria,  the  salt,  so  essential  a  condi¬ 
ment  to  man,  is  obtained  from  the  centre  of  a  mountain  through 
which  are  formed  inclined  planes  to  convey  it  away  ;  that,  accord¬ 
ing  to  our  friend’s  MS.  account,  (of  whom  we  have  more  than 
once  spoken  in  these  outlines,)  the  Austrian  and  Hungarian  wines 
here  obtained  are  very  good,  equal  to  the  best  claret,  and  free  from 
acid  ;  indeed  all  the  wine  up  the  valley  from  Verona  to  Inspruck 
is  very  good,  and  at  Botzen  delicious:  the  valley  is  full  of  vines; 
from  this  last  place  the  Tyrol  is  supplied  with  wine. 

We  might  here  descend  along  the  majestic  Rhine 

“  Whose  breast  of  waters  broadly  swell 

Between  the  banks  which  bear  the  vine  ; 

And  hills  all  rich  with  blossomed  trees. 

And  fields  which  promise  corn  and  wine. 

And  scattered  cities  crowning  these” 

Byron. 

But  our  limits  utterly  forbid  more  than  this  glance;  and  although 
Switzerland,  Geneva,  and  Lake  Leman,  “  with  its  crystal  face,” 
and  its  fish,  to  which  may  be  added  the  Lake  of  Constance,  with  its 
red  trout  in  so  much  request,  furnish  ample  food  for  the  historian 
as  well  as  the  historical  cook,  we  leave  the  description  of  it  to 
other  hands,  and  devote  our  attention  to  the  Cookery  of  France, 
in  many  respects  a  very  important  country.  According  to  the 
celebrated  Encyclopedic*  published  during  the  last  century  under 

*  Encyclopedic,  tome  x.  art.  Cuisine. 


I  INTRODUCTION. 


XXVII 


the  superintendence  of  Diderot  and  D’Alembert  in  France, 
French  cookery  was  very  much  influenced  by  a  crowd  of  corrupted 
Italians,  who  served  in  the  court  of  Catherin  de  Medicis.  It 
will  be  fruitless  to  trace  the  cookery  of  what  has  been  termed  the 
dark  or  barbarous  ages,  when  almost  the  whole  of  life  among  the 
different  European  communities  was  made  up  of  monkish  acerbity, 
priestly  luxury,  and  baronial  riot  on  the  one  hand,  and  military  con¬ 
tention  for  power  or  territory  and  feudal  oppression  on  the  other. 
But  nevertheless,  in  many  of  the  large  towns,  long  before  the  inven¬ 
tion  of  the  ait  of  printing  in  France,  as  well  as  in  this  country, 
professors  of  some  of  the  more  useful  and  common  arts  were  en¬ 
couraged.  Hence  we  find  that,  as  civilization  proceeded,  many  of 
such  professors  became  united  into  companies,  and  had  certain 
privileges  granted  them  by  the  kings  in  w'hose  dominions  they 
were  established,  which  enabled  them  to  exercise  their  calling 
with  great  advantage  to  themselves,  and,  it  was  then  supposed, 
with  great  advantage  also  to  the  community.  Among  these  cooks 
and  others  connected  with  their  craft  were  formed  into  companies. 

In  France,  the  Traiteur  or  Cuisinier-Traiteur,  that  is,  a  cook 
who  kept  an  eating-house,  united  at  once  in  himself  three  other 
professions,  namely,  the  Rotisseur,  that  is,  the  cook  who  pre¬ 
pares  and  sells  roast-meat,  the  Patissier  or  pastry-cook,  and  the 
Cabaretier  or  Inn-keeper.  The  Traiteur  had  the  right  of  furnishing 
complete  repasts,  whether  in  the  city  or  at  his  own  house  ; 
whereas  the  three  others  could  sell  nothing  except  what  they 
professed  to  sell. 

The  Company  of  Master-Cooks,  &c.  is  nevertheless  not  very 
ancient;  it  was  erected  into  a  society  by  Henry  IV.  in  1599,  anil 
confirmed  by  subsequent  kings. 

The  Company  of  Maitre  Rotisseurs  is  much  older  than  the 
preceding.  Their  first  statutes  had  for  their  title,  O rdonnance  da 
Metiers  des  oyers,  and  were  given  to  the  company  by  Stephen 
Boileau,  Provost  of  Paris,  about  the  year  1258.  The  term  des 
oyers,  which  means  here  sellers  of  geese,  has  induced  some  persons 
to  think  that  formerly  the  citizens  of  Paris  had  a  particular  relish 
for  that  sort  of  food.  But  that  name  was  given  to  them,  because 
formerly  the  goose  rvas  the  only  kind  of  poultry  which  they  were 
permitted  to  sell  and  to  dress  :  other  poultry  and  game  were  sold 
by  the  Poulterers.  These  ancient  Rotisseurs  were  also  at  the  same 
time  Cliarcutiers,  that  is,  they  kept  a  pork-shop  and  purchased  of 
the  butchers  beef,  veal,  mutton,  and  pork,  and  sold  it  either  roasted, 
boiled,  or  seasoned.  They  lived  almost  all  of  them  in  the  street 
called  aux-oyers,  where,  as  late  as  1767,  were  a  great  many  of  the 
shops  of  the  Rotisseurs. 

The  associations  of  pastry-cooks  of  Paris  are  of  some  anti¬ 
quity.  Their  statutes  were  giving  them  by  Charles  IX.  in  1566. 
They  were  of  two  kinds,  and  formed  two  distinct  companies, 
Patissiers  or  pastry-cooks,  who  made  ordinary  pastry  ;  and 
Pain  d'6piciers,  that  is  ginger-bread  bakers.  But  ginger¬ 
bread  is  not  a  modern  invention  ;  it  has  come  down  to  us,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Athemeus,  from  Asia,  who  informs  us  that  a  bread  was 

c  2 


XXV111 


INTRODUCTION 


made  at  Rhodes,  seasoned  with  honey  of  such  an  agreeable  taste 
that  it  was  eaten  with  pleasure  after  the  greatest  entertainments. 
The  Greeks  called  it  melilntes ;  from  the  Greeks  it  passed  into 
other  parts  of  Europe,  and  has  thus  come  down  to  us.* 

For  some  of  the  preceding  notices  concerning  the  French  Cooks 
we  are  indebted  to  the  work  referred  to  in  the  note.  That  work 
was  published  in  1767,  and  we  conclude  that  the  different  pro¬ 
fessions  connected  with  the  art  of  Cookery  have  undergone  in 
France  considerable  change  since  that  period.  Indeed  upon 
reference  to  the  Manuals  which  have  been  lately  published  there, 
we  find,  besides  the  Manual  de  Cuisinier  so  often  referred  to  in  the 
body  of  our  present  work,  Manual  of  the  Baker  and  Miller;  a 
Manual  of  the  Brewer ;  Manual  of  the  Charcutier  or  Pork-butcher ; 
Manual  of  the  Lemonadier,  Confectioner ,  and  Distiller  ;  Manual  of 
the  Pastry-cook ;  Manual  of  the  French  Vine-dresser,  or  the 
Art  of  cultivating  the  Vine,  making  Wines,  Brandies,  and  Vinegars. 
So  that  now  several  arts  connected  with  Cookery,  as  well  as 
with  many  other  arts,  have  their  appropriate  Manual  in  France, 
and  hence  we  conclude  that  the  uses  of  chartered  or  other  compa¬ 
nies  under  letters  patent  in  that  country  must  be  greatly  on  the 
decline.  We  possess  no  information  concerning  the  present  state 
of  the  Cooks’  Companies  in  France,  nor  are  we  desirous  of 
inquiring  concerning  them.  We  consider  that  their  cookery- 
books  (and  we  have  inspected  many  of  them)  contain  a  summary 
of  the  practice  of  that  art  in  a  fertile  empire,  which  M.  Cakeme 
with  great  complacency  has  been  pleased  to  call  the  mother-coun¬ 
try  of  cookery.  See  page  122.  How  this  can  be,  we  confess 
we  are  at  a  loss  to  comprehend,  unless  we  could  obliterate  what 
is  known  of  the  cookery  of  the  ancient  nations,  concerning  which 
we  have  given  a  few  outlines  in  the  present  sketch.  However, 
with  all  this  gentleman’s  eccentricity,  we  consider  his  works,  as 
historical  documents,  valuable ;  and  shall  take  the  liberty  to  use 
the  information  which  they  communicate  to  us,  and  for  which  we 
beg  leave  to  express  ourselves  obliged. 

We  may  here  observe  that  in  those  states  of  Europe  where  the  Ca¬ 
tholic  religion  has  been  predominant  for  a  series  of  ages,  the  cook¬ 
ery  is  affected  in  no  ordinary  degree,  at  the  season  of  Lent  in  parti¬ 
cular,  by  several  peculiarities,  one  of  the  chief  of  which  is  that 
of  avoiding  the  preparation  and  use  of  all  Jlesli  during  the  period 
of  its  continuance  ;  and  therefore  fish,  dressed  in  various  ways, 
constitutes  a  large  portion  of  the  viands  of  those  who  profess 
that  religion. 

Shrove-Tuesday  in  Catholic  countries  is  the  last  day  of  the 
Carnival,  which  consists  in  a  period  more  or  less  long  of  continual 
enjoyment  and  feasting  ;  this  period  commonly  begins  on  Twelfth 
Day.  It  is  usual  for  women  in  particular  to  meet  together,  and, 
disguising  themselves  in  various  ways,  to  proceed  dancing  and 
singing  to  the  domicile  of  some  new  housekeeper.  The  following 
is  a  specimen  of  one  song  in  France. 

*  Dictionnaire  dec  Arts  et  Metiers,  Amsterdam. ,  1767. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXIX 


Comme  cette  semaine  nous  serons  traitee  ! 

Le  Lundi  du  bouilli, 

Le  Mardi  du  roti, 

Le  Mercredi  du  jambon, 

Le  Jeudi  uu  chapon, 

Le  Vendredi  du  saumon, 

Le  Samedi  du  poisson, 

Le  Dimanche  au  matin, 

Des  saucesses  et  du  poudin. 

How  we  shall  be  feasted  this  week  1 

On  Monday  boil’d,  on  Tuesday  roast, 

On  Wednesday  ham  will  be  our  boast ; 

On  Thursday  capon  fine  and  fat. 

On  Friday  salmon  equals  that; 

On  Saturday  some  other  fish. 

Will  make  as  exquisite  a  dish  ; 

On  Sunday  sausages  appear. 

With  pudding  to  complete  the  cheer; 

While  every  day  affords  us  wine. 

How  can  we  mortals  better  dine?*j 

Having  already  alluded  to  geese  above,  we  may  here  observe 
that  although  what  is  stated  in  the  notes  to  the  Tabella  Cibaria  is 
in  part,  perhaps,  true  as  regards  these  birds  in  France, — namely, 
that  they  are  not  in  such  repute  there  as  they  are  in  this  country, 
and  that  they  seldom  make  their  appearance  at  the  tables  of  the 
Parisian  epicures ;  that  the  flesh  is  condemned  as  coarse  and 
unwholesome,  and  that  the  apple-sauce,  when  mentioned,  never 
fails  to  excite  astonishment; — yet,  if  the  various  modes  given  in 
the  Cuisinier  Royal  for  dressing  the  goose  be  any  criterion  of  the 
opinions  of  the  French  in  regard  to  this  bird,  it  cannot  be  in 
exactly  such  low  estimation  as  the  author  of  the  Tabella  Cibaria 
would  have  us  believe.  Ten  different  modes  of  dressing  the  goose 
are  given  in  the  Cuisinier  Royal,  one  of  which  is  called  oie  d 
TAnglaise,  and  we  should  think  that  such  a  method  of  dressing  a 
goose  would  not  have  found  its  way  into  that  unless  some  of 
our  neighbours  liked  our  method  of  cooking  it.  It  is  true  the 
Manual  de  Cuisinier  is  very  concise  concerning  geese,  directing, 
however,  a  wild-one,  if  young,  to  be  (elle  se  met  d  la  brochi )  roasted ; 
and  a  tame  one  to  be  treated  in  the  same  manner  when  it  is  not  more 
than  a  year  old,  and  has  been  fattened  with  good  corn.  Goose  en 
daube  pervades,  nevertheless,  all  their  cookery-books  ;  and  in  the 
Manuel  de  Cuisinier  it  is  distinguished  with  the  letters  D.A.D. 
that  is,  as  our  readers  may  see  (page  298),  difficult  to  digest. 

*  Our  translator  informs  us  that  he  has  taken  a  trifling  liberty  or  two 
with  the  original.  Poudin,  or  Boudin,  he  says  it  should  be,  means,  in 
French,  black-pudding ,  which  is  so  cacophonous,  that  he  could  not  in 
his  conscience  degrade  his  English  by  inserting  it ;  he  trusts  this  may 
be  pardoned  ;  and  he  hopes,  besides,  that  all  lovers  of  good  cheer  will 
forgive  him  for  the  introduction  of  wine  and  the  last  couplet,  neither  of 
which  is  in  the  original.  We  ought,  perhaps,  here  to  state  that  the 
Carnival  in  France  has  lately,  we  understand,  become  among  the  intel¬ 
ligent  population  in  considerable  disrepute.  , 


X  X  X 


I NTRO  DUCTION. 


13ut,  according  to  the  Tabella  Cibaria,  the  livers  and  thighs  of 
geese  made  into  pete  de  foies  gras  are  reckoned  a  most  delicate 
article  even  in  France.  Of  such,  notwithstanding  Gallican  taste, 
we  cannot  approve,  nor  indeed  of  scarcely  any  other  dish  made 
of  the  liver  of  any  animal,  however  dressed;  being  thoroughly 
convinced  that  the  liver  is,  in  general,  one  of  the  most  unwole- 
some  of  all  animal  aliments,  and  requires  a  robust  stomach  to 
elaborate  it  without  inconvenience.* 

But  we  must  proceed  in  our  outlines.  We  have  said  elsewhere 
in  our  work  that  ‘‘  fricassees  and  ragolits  are  the  fruits  of  French 
taste  and  most  certain  it  is  that  our  neighbours  have  long  had 
the  credit  of  preparing  such  dishes  as  well  as  soups,  and  a  variety 
of  other  boiled  and  braised  mixtures,  that  have  been  and  still  are 
imitated  in  this  country ;  the  reader  who  desires  to  learn  more 
on  this  head  may  consult  our  eighth  chapter.  How  much  soever 
such  dishes  might  invite  fashion  to  partake  of  them,  they  are, 
nevertheless,  not  accordant  with  our  simple  English  habits  and 
tastes  ;  and  therefore,  although  to  a  certain  extent  adopted  in 
our  large  towns  wrhere  French  influence  most  prevails,  there  is 
little  fear  of  their  ever  becoming  denizens  in  the  cookery  of  our 
rural  population.  Of  soups,  however,  to  a  limited  extent,  and 
made  of  some  simple  viand,  we  are  advocates,  as  may  be  seen  in 
our  chapter  on  soups;  but  to  soups  as  well  as  fricassees  and 
ragoftts  made  up  with  almost  an  infinity  of  ingredients  and  sauces 
we  most  strongly  object,  being  persuaded  that  they  all  more  or 
less  minister  to  the  dyspeptic  maladies  under  w'hich  too  many  of 
us  in  this  country  already  labour. 

Without,  therefore,  entering  further  into  the  history  of  ancient 
cookery  in  France,  we  shall  avail  ourselves  of  the  assistance  of 
our  friend  M.  Caremf.,  and  direct  the  reader’s  attention  to  w'hat  we 
may  consider  as  a  sort  of  epoch  in  modern  French  Cookery. 
This  gentleman  has  given,  in  his  work  Le  Maitre  d' Hotel  Frangais , 
bills  of  fare,  not  only  of  the  table  of  the  Prince  Regent ,  whose 
cook  he  was  for  several  months  at  Brighton,  but  also  bills  of 
fare  of  the  most  fashionable  cookery  in  France  as  well  as  many 
other  countries,  for  almost  every  day  in  the  year ;  and  also  the 


*  Why  the  liver  as  food  is  unwholesome  is  not,  perhaps,  easy  to  ex' 
plain;  we  may  conjecture,  however,  that  as  one  of  the  functions  of  the 
liver  is  to  secrete  the  bile,  and  as  bile,  when  in  the  stomach,  appears  to 
be  always  more  or  less  offensive  to  it,  and  that,  as  it  is  difficult,  perhaps 
impossible,  to  obtain  any  portion  of  liver  without  some  vestige  of  bile, 
as  its  taste  more  or  less  bitter  evinces,  it  is,  possibly,  owing  to  this 
circumstance  that  liver  becomes  unfit  for  food.  M.  Morin,  Manuel 
d' Hygiene,  article  foies  gras,  entertains  the  same  opinion  as  ourselves 
concerning  the  nutritive  properties  of  the  liver  ;  indeed,  he  says  that 
prudence  forbids  us  to  employ  foies  gras  as  food.  We  find,  from  the  same 
authority,  that  at  Strasbourg  the  foies  gras,  that  is,  fat  or  overgrown 
livers,  are  obtained  from  geese  by  peculiar  feeding,  and  by  depriving 
them  of  water  ;  at  Toxdouse  the  foies  gras  of  ducks  are  obtained  in  the 
same  way.  Let  the  gourmands  look  to  this,  and  to  the  consequent 
probability  of  disease  by  eatiug  such  food. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXI 


bills  of  fare  of  the  two  splendid  fetes  given  at  Paris  on  the  re  entry 
of  the  King  Louis  XVIII.  into  that  capital  in  1816.  The  first  was 
given  in  the  great  gallery  of  the  Louvre ;  and,  to  adopt  M.  Careme’s 
own  words,  et  bien  surement  cette  belle  et  somptueuse  fete  eut  toute 
ViUgance  et  la  dignity  que  rkclamait  son  noble  motif.  It  took  place 
the  5th  of  February ,  and  was  given  by  la  Garde  royale  and  les  Gardes 
du  corps  to  the  National  Parisian  Guard,  to  celebrate  the  happy  re¬ 
turn  of  the  king  to  Paris  after  the  frightful  revolution  of  the  2d  of 
March  in  the  preceding  year.  I  never  saw,  says  M.  Careme,  a  hall 
more  beautiful,  and  a  series  of  tables  more  imposing.  There  were 
1200  covers  upon  twelve  tables  ;  at  the  end  of  every  table  was  a 
vast  military  trophy  elegantly  grouped.  Such  was  the  splendour 
that  the  sight  could  scarcely  support  it.  Every  table  bore  the 
names  of  the  heroes  who  had  rendered  France  illustrious  by  their 
immortal  victories.  These  tables  became  yet  more  imposing  when 
surrounded  by  brave  citizens  and  soldiers.  Added  to  which, 
towards  the  middle  of  the  hall  was  a  grand  orchestra,  where  music 
executed  the  airs  dear  to  France,  and  at  the  report  of  cannon  the 
king  himself  entered.  Dieu  !  quel  iclatant  spectacle  ! 

A  kitchen  was  formed  in  the  large  hall  of  the  Louvre.  A 
furnace,  fifty  feet  long  and  six  feet  wide,  was  raised  in  the  middle 
of  the  hall,  encircled  with  the  necessary  tables. 

One  hundred  cooks  were  employed  in  preparing  the  feast;  and 
all  was  conducted  with  quietness  and  good  arrangement. 

Proceed  we  now  to  another  fete  given  on  the  21st  of  February, 
1816,  by  the  National  Parisian  Guard  to  the  Garde  Royale  and  to 
the  Gardes  du  Corps  of  the  king,  at  which  also  M.  Careme  offi¬ 
ciated,  and  in  the  description  of  which  this  gentleman  luxuriates 
not  a  little.  We  must  copy  a  few  of  his  words:  “  Maintenant,” 
says  he,  “  il  nous  reste  a  signaler  une  autre  grande  affaire  que 
nous  l’avons  dirigee  de  concert  avec  M.  Arlet,  cuisinier  distingue  : 
je  veux  parler  du  grand  bal  de  l’Odeon  ;  ce  bal  est  l’un  des  plus 
extraordinaire  de  nos  jours.’’ 

M.  Bertrand,  restaurateur,  Boulevard  da  Temple ,  was  the  un¬ 
dertaker  of  it.  The  cookery  was  performed  in  the  kitchen  of  the 
Petit  Luxemburg,  and  the  dishes  were  brought  upon  large  trays 
to  the  Odeon,  where  tables  were  laid  for  three  thousand  persons. 
There  were  fifteen  hundred  of  different  kinds  of  Potages,  such 
as  vonsommi  made  with  rice ,  vermicelli,  poultry,  &c.;  ninety 
large  dishes,  of  which  forty  were  ham  d  la  Portugaise,  twenty  of 
turkeys  en  galantines,  and  thirty  of  various  fish;  one  hundred  and 
sixty  cold  entrees  of  various  kinds,  such  as  fowls,  veal,  partridges, 
&c. ;  ninety  large  dishes  of  pastry,  such  as  Naples’  biscuits,  pfltes  of 
game,  & c. ;  two  hundred  and  fifty  dishes  of  roasted  viands,  such 
as  partridges,  quails,  pullets,  turkeys,  young  ducks,  pigeons, 
tongues  d  I’ecarlute,  and  fifty  different  sorts  of  fish ;  two  hundred  and 
fifty  different  entremets  consisting  of  blanc-manges,  pastry,  and 
jellies  of  various  kinds  ;  six  hundred  plates  of  dessert,  consisting 
of  fruits  both  recent  and  dried,  &c.  Xc.,  as  well  as  bonbons  and 
compotes ;  three  thousand  petits  pains  and  three  thousand  bottles  of 
wine. 


XXXII 


INTRODUCTION. 


We  must  once  more  take  M.  Careme  as  our  guide.  To  close, 
says  he,  our  treatise  concerning  the  Bills  of  Fare  of  modern  Cook¬ 
ery,  we  will  here  relate  the  details  of  the  greatest  and  most  ex¬ 
traordinary  entertainment  which  has  taken  place  at  Paris  since 
the  renaissance  de  I'urt.  It  was  a  grand  military  dinner  for  ten  thou¬ 
sand  persons.  The  whole  was  prepared  at  the  Hotel  de  Ville  at 
Paris,  under  the  direction  of  Messrs.  Palu  and  Lasne.  There 
were  consumed  at  this  fete — six  oxen;  seventy-five  calves;  two 
hundred  and  fifty  sheep  ;  three  thousand  turkeys  ;  three  thousand  chic¬ 
kens  and  pullets ;  one  thousand  partridges ;  five  hundred  hams  ;  five 
hundred  tongues ;  one  thousand  pat6s ;  one  thousand  biscuits  and 
babas  ;  one  thousand  carp ;  one  thousand  pike ;  eighteen  thousand 
bottles,  and  one  hundred  and  forty-five  hogsheads  of  wine. 

This  grand  entertainment  was  given  in  the  Champs  Elysees  be¬ 
neath  large  tents  erected  for  the  purpose.  Every  guest  had  his 
bottle  of  wine.  A  part  of  the  viands  and  the  one  hundred  and 
forty-five  hogsheads  of  wine  were  given  to  the  people  of  the  twelve 
arrondissements  of  Paris.* 

Perhaps  we  cannot  finish  our  outlines  of  French  Cookery  more 
appropriately  than  by  giving  a  summary  of  what  M.  Careme  says 
concerning  that  and  cookery  generally,  without,  however,  pledging 
ourselves  in  every  particular  to  that  gentleman’s  opinions.  If 
I  may  judge,  says  he,  from  the  Roman  treatises  on  the  cookery  of 
antiquity,  it  was  never  as  juicy  (succulente)  as  ours;  not  even 
that  of  Lucullus  and  of  Apicius ;  but  this  arises  from  our  geogra¬ 
phical  position,  from  our  industry,  and  from  the  infallible  and  de¬ 
licate  taste  of  the  French  nation  !  (gout  sur  et  delicate.) 

On  consulting  the  authors  who  write  concerning  French  cookery 
about  the  middle  of  the  last  century,  it  is  easy  to  perceive  how  much 
the  cooks  of  that  time  had  preserved  the  style  of  the  Italian  cook¬ 
ery  which  Catherine  de  Medicis  introduced  to  the  court  of  France ; 
notwithstanding  which  French  cookery  had  already  made  consi¬ 
derable  progress  under  the  reign  of  Charles  the  IXth,  Henry  the 
IVth,  as  well  as  under  the  splendid  timesof  Louis  the  XIVth.  This 
science,  so  M.  Caheme  calls  the  cookery  of  that  period,  had  re¬ 
ceived  great  developement  if  we  may  judge  from  the  authors  of 
Dons  de  Comus,  Soupers  de  la  Cour,  and  other  books  written  about 
the  same  period.  We  see,  however,  even  then,  how  much  French 
cookery  was  arnrnatisie  and  spiced.  The  climate  of  beautiful 
Italy,  by  its  excessive  heat,  requires  for  its  native  inhabitants  a 
cookery  strong  and  aromatis6e,  to  serve  in  some  respects  as  a  tonic 
to  prevent  the  continual  relaxation  of  the  fibres  of  the  stomach. 
The  Italian  cookery  left,  therefore,  among  us  a  predominant  incli¬ 
nation  for  such  highly  flavoured  food  ;  but  time,  that  great  master 
of  all  things,  has  naturally  induced  our  cooks  to  simplify  the 
national  taste  in  making  our  French  cookery  more  simple  and 

*  A  little  defect  is  observable  in  M.  Careme’s  account ;  he  does  not 
inform  us  when  this  fete  took  place  ;  we  conclude,  however,  soon  after 
the  letes  previously  described,  when  the  military  mania  of  France  was 
at  his  height. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXlU 


more  unctuous  ;  for,  from  the  productions  of  our  own  happy  climate 
and  its  beautiful  weather,  there  is  no  occasion  to  add  spice  to  our 
food.  Notwithstanding,  our  cookery  was  too  much  aromutisze 
towards  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Louis  the  XIVth,  and  in  part  under 
that  of  Louis  the  XVth ;  the  court  had  then  grown  old  and  felt 
the  want  of  a  table  that  should  be  wholesome  and  consequently 
more  simplified.  The  sumptuousness,  therefore,  of  French  cook¬ 
ery  under  the  reign  of  Louis  the  XVth,  as  well  as  under  Louis 
the  XVIth,  received  great  changes,  to  which  the  revolution  added 
not  a  little. 

Thus  far  M.  Careme  :  we  must  add  that  French  cookery  will 
still  admit  of  much  further  simplification  ;  and  that,  how  extrava¬ 
gant  and  corrupt  soever  French  cookery  might  now  be  or  formerly 
was,  there  have  not  been  occasionally  wanting  observant  persons 
in  that  enlightened  nation,  (among  whom  we  ought  to  name  Car- 
delli,  see  page  298)  who  deprecate  in  becoming  terms  the  gas- 
trology  which  is  still  too  much  practised  there  as  well  as  in  En¬ 
gland.  With  some  very  sensible  observations  on  the  subject,  (and 
we  give  them  in  the  original  as  we  find  them  in  the  Encyclopedie, 
article  Cuisine,)  we  must  conclude.  “  II  est  vrai,  cependant,  que, 
graces  aux  moeurs  et  a  la  corruption  generate,  tons  les  pays  riches 
ont  des  Lucullus  qui  concourent  par  leur  exemple  a  perpetuer  l’a- 
rnour  de  la  bonne  chere.  On  s’accorde  assez  a  defigurer  de  cent 
manihres  differents  les  mets  que  donne  la  nature,  lesqnels  par  ce 
moyen  perdent  leur  bonne  qualite,  et  sont,  si  on  peut  dire,  autant 
de  poisons  flatteurs  prepares  pour  detruire  le  temperament,  et 
pour  abreger  le  cours  de  la  vie.”  Flattering  poisons  prepared  to  des¬ 
troy  the  constitution  and  shorten  human  life. 

We  will  just  add  that  Thouin  informs  us  the  only  originally  in¬ 
digenous  vegetable  productions  of  France  employed  as  food,  are 
the  acorn,  the  chestnut,  the  pear,  the  wild  apple,  and  some  other 
inferior  fruits  ;  all  others  are  the  product  of  foreign  countries,  and 
were  obtained  from  either  the  Phoenicians,  the  Greeks,  the  Ro¬ 
mans,  or  some  of  the  African  nations.  The  vine,  the  peach,  the 
fig,  the  mulberry,  the  cherry,  and  olive  were  introduced  by  the 
Romans ;  the  orange  by  the  Italians ;  and  the  pine-apple  by  the 
Dutch. 

Yet  the  ingenuity  and  industry  of  France  have  provided  for  her 
inhabitants  a  larger  number  of  both  animal  and  vegetable  viands. 
The  Manuel  de  Cuisinier  par  Cardelli  furnishes  us  with  a  cata¬ 
logue  of  articles  of  food  of  different  kinds  amounting  to  more  than 
a  hundred,  which  are  considered  in  France  as  the  most  renowned, 
as  well  as  the  names  of  cities  and  places  which  produce  them  in 
the  greatest  perfection.  We  have  not  room  for  the  whole  ;  but  we 
will  give  the  reader  an  abstract  from  it. 

Anchovies — Aix,  Marseilles,  Nice;  Artichokes — Laon  ;  Aspara¬ 
gus — Yendbme;  Beer — Brusseles;  Brandy — Aix,  Anday,  Cognac, 
Montpellier,  Orleans ;  Butler — Brittany,  Gournai,  lsigny,  Rennes, 
Ac. ;  Corn — Chartres,  Meaux  ;  Cheese — Bayonne,  Besanqon, 
Gruyere,  Meaux,  &c.  ;  Cyder — Bolbec,  lsigny,  Neufchatel 
Rouen,  &c. ;  Ducks  young — Rouen  ;  Fish — Champagne,  Grenoble, 

c  3 


XXXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


Havre,  Nantes,  Nice,  Quimper,  Sancerre ;  Lobsters — Havre  ; 
Melons — Honfleur,  Paris;  Mustard — Dijon;  Oil — Aix,  Marseilles  ; 
Olives — Aix,  Marseilles;  Oysters— Cancale,  Dieppe,  Havre, 
&c.  ;  Poultry — Chartres  ;  Salmon — Coblentz  ;  Sugar — Orleans  ; 
Stur geon  —  Dieppe  ;  2 bout — Besantjon,  Geneva;  Tunny — Aix, 
Marseilles,  Nice  ;  Turbot—  Dieppe  ;  Turkey — Orleans  ;  Veal — 
Pontoise  ;  Wines — Aurillac,  Bayonne,  Champagne,  Clermont, 
Dijon,  Toulouse,  and  many  other  places.* 

Concerning  the  Cookf.ry  of  Spain  and  its  sister  country  Por¬ 
tugal  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  speak  ;  for,  unless  it  has 

*  A  few  notes  from  our  friend’s  MS.,  to  whrh  we  have  often  alluded 
in  these  outlines,  may  be  here  acceptable. 

At  Tain  we  visited  the  famous  Hermitage  vineyard;  M.  Jourdan,  its 
largest  proprietor,  had  just  finished  his  wine-making,  except  his  Vin  de 
Paille,  which  was  to  be  made  the  next  day;  it  is  made  from  grapes 
that  have  been  hung  up  in  clusters  upon  wooden  frames  in  a  green-house, 
with  a  stove  in  it,  which  assists  the  drying  [and  no  doubt  the  ripening 
also]  of  the  grapes.  The  frames  are  turned  round  to  the  sun,  so  that  all 
may  have  the  advantage  of  it.  After  hanging  for  a  few  weeks,  they  are 
made  into  wine  in  the  same  way  as  other  wine  is  made.  M.  Jourdan 
nakes  only  about  two  hogsheads  of  this  celebrated  wine  annually.  The 
grapes  from  which  the  Hermitage  wine  is  obtained  are  very  small.  Those 
which  produce  the  Vin  de  Paille  are  almost  the  smallest  we  ever  saw, 
and  except  being  sw  et  had  no  peculiarly  fine  flavour. 

The  Hermitage-hill  is  the  last  that  is  good,  making  the  better  sorts  of 
wine  on  the  left  bank  of  the  Rhone.  On  the  right  bank  higher  up,  op¬ 
posite  Vienne  and  for  two  miles  below  it,  is  made  the  far-famed  Cote 
Rotie,  which  takes  its  name  from  the  hills  being  very  steep  and  lying  due 
south  ;  this  exposure,  the  soil  being  poor  and  rocky,  is  the  cause  of  the 
wines  being  so  good,  the  grapes  being  thus  thoroughly  ripened. 

At  Vaucluse  are  obtained  delicious  trout,  eels,  and  craw- fish,  which  are 
kept  in  reservoirs,  out  of  which  they  tumble  into  the  hands  of  the  cook, 
so  that  their  goodness  depends  upon  their  freshness;  trout  are,  however, 
always  better  when  taken  in  cold  water  ;  they  are  darker  in  colour  and 
firmer  in  their  flesh;  this  fact  applies  peculiarly  to  the  trout  taken  in  the 
Alpine  regions  of  Italy  and  Switzerland. 

The  whole  country  for  fifty  miles  round  Marseilles  is  a  complete  forest 
of  olive-trees  ;  hence  there  is  an  abundance  of  oil  of  all  qualities  ;  the 
first  expressed,  which  is  the  best,  is  called  oil  of  Aix,  and  is  used  both  in 
the  kitchen  and  at  the  table  ;  the  inferior  kinds  are  made  into  soap. 

Ay  Hyeres  the  orange  and  the  palm-tree  are  seen  for  the  first  time  in 
journeying  to  the  south  of  France.  Between  the  town  and  the  sea  are 
iarge  agave  gardens  ;  they  are  chiefly  cultivated,  however,  for  flowers, 
whence  great  quantities  of  Jieur  d’orange  water  and  esprit  des  roses  are 
made. 

After  passing  the  Estrelles  mountains  the  climate  improves  and  is  even 
milder  than  at  Nice.  Here  the  orange-tree  is  first  seen  in  all  its  beauty  ; 
aad  the  olive,  instead  of  being  an  often  frosted  and  cut-down  shrub  of  the 
rest  of  France  and  most  parts  of  Italy,  is  here  more  like  the  oak  in  size 
and  beauty,  and  a  very  handsome  tree  it  is. 

Yet  we  learn  from  a  family  MS.  record,  lime  de  memoire,  made  by  an 
ancestor  of  one  of  our  council  of  Cooks  (a  native  of  the  south  of  France), 
that  “  l’annee  1709  fut  cet  grand  hiver  qui  tua  tous  les  oliviers.”  The 
year  1709  was  that  great  winter  which  killed  all  the  olives. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXV 


lately  undergone  considerable  change,  it  may  be  denominated  exe¬ 
crable  as  compared  with  the  cookery  of  most  other  nations  of 
Europe,  notwithstanding  the  fine  climate  and  the  abundance  of 
oil  and  wine.  Mr.  Southey,  whose  Letters  from  Spain  and  Portu¬ 
gal  were  published  in  1797,  gives  a  very  indifferent  account  of  it 
indeed.  His  sketch  of  his  first  going  on  board  a  Spanish  packet  is 
picturesque.  “  The  sailors,”  says  he,  “  were  feasting  upon  a 
mess  of  biscuit,  onions,  liver,  and  horse-beans  boiled  into  a  brown 
pap,  which  they  were  all  pawing  out  of  a  bucket.  The  same  taste 
and  cleanliness  of  cookery  were  displayed  in  the  only  dinner  they 
afforded  us  on  the  passage.”  At  Corunna  he  dined  off  “a  fowl 
fried  in  oil,  served  up  in  an  attitude  not  unlike  a  frog  taken 
suddenly  with  a  fit  of  the  cramp ;  to  which  was  added  an  omelette 
of  eggs  and  garlic  fried  in  the  same  execrable  oil;  our  drink  a 
meagre  wine,  which  by  comparison  exalts  small  beer  into  nectar.” 

When  a  man  must  diet  on  what  is  disagreeable,  it  is  some  con¬ 
solation  to  reflect  that  it  is  wholesome  ;  and  this  is  the  case  with 
the  wine ;  but  the  bread  here  is  half  gravel,  owing  to  the  soft  na¬ 
ture  of  their  grindstones.”  There  is  something  of  the  contradictory  in 
the  Poet  Laureate’s  account  of  Spanish  wine  in  these  two  periods  ; 
allowance  must  be,  therefore,  made  for  a  poet’s  hyperbole.  On 
his  journey  to  Madrid  from  Corunna  he  admits  that  he  found  good 
potatoes  and  turnips  ;  but  he  says  that  at  their  inn  the  people 
boiled  some  wine  for  him  in  an  iron  ladle  !  he  mentions  just  before 
that  the  vinegar  was  brought  in  a  leaden  vessel,  which  rendered  the 
condiment  at  once  sweet  and  poisonous.  Their  bread  is  made  of 
wheat;  browu  bread  with  Indian  corn.  At  Baneza  he  obtained 
an  excellent  wine  superior  to  Mountain,  called  Peralta.  From 
Baneza  on  the  road  to  Benevente  he  saw  a  range  of  caverns  dug 
out  of  a  hill,  which  proved  to  be  ictree-vaults.  He  mentions  also 
that  he  obtained  on  the  road  turkeys,  pigeons,  and  partridges;  but 
he  met  with  a  sausage  composed  only  of  garlic  and  aniseed,  and  fried 
in  rancid  oil ;  still  he  had  good  wine.  At  Espinosa  he  learnt  that  cats 
are  often  eaten  in  Spain  ;  one  of  his  companions  told  him  that  they 
had  one  for  supper  at  Villa  Franca  which  weighed  seven  pounds. 
The  ladies  in  Spain,  therefore,  who  make  pets  of  cats,  are  very 
careful  that  they  do  not  get  abroad  or  they  would  be  soon  killed 
and  eaten  ! 

After  leaving  Madrid,  of  the  cookery  prevailing  in  which  our 
author  does  not  say  much,  they  stopped  at  the  Venta  de  Peralba- 
•negas,  where  a  large  party  at  supper  were  actually  all  eating  out 
of  the  frying-pan.  “  The  pepper  of  all  this  country  is  red  ;  Apol- 
lyon  could  not  find  a  better  kind  of  nutmeg  for  a  cool  tankard  of 
uqua-fortis.”  “  The  forests  find  shelter  and  support  for  the  wild 
boar  and  occasionally  for  tame  swine.  If  there  had  been  any 
game  laws  in  Spain,  we  must  have  starved  ;  but  game  is  plenty  ; 
we  bought  two  rabbits,  a  hare,  and  four  partridges  for  a  dollar.” 
At  Puerto  de  Sunta  Cruz  was  obtained  an  excellent  dish,  namely, 
lean  pork  highly  seasoned  with  garlic,  and  steeped  in  red  wine. 
Notwithstanding  the  wretched  state  of  Spain,  here  is  wine  to 


XXX  VI 


INTRODUCTION. 


gladden  Ihe  heart  of  man,  com  to  support  him,  and  oil  to  make 
him  of  a  cheerful  countenance. 

At  Merida  they  had  a  woodcock  for  supper,  which  the  travel¬ 
lers  trussed  themselves  ;  but  the  old  woman  of  the  house  brought 
up  the  bird  sprawling,  told  them  that  they  had  forgot  to  cut  off  the 
rump  and  draw  it,  and  then  poked  her  finger  in  to  show  how 
clean  the  inside  was.  What  a  terrible  disappointment  to  a  gour¬ 
mand  ! 

On  entering  Portugal,  our  travellers  fared  better ;  they  obtained 
tea  and  toast  and  butter  for  breakfast.  The  Portuguese  spits  are 
very  small,  with  four  legs  at  the  handle  ;  the  other  end  rests  upon 
some  piece  of  fuel  while  the  meat  roasts  ;  the  spit  is  stationary  ; 
when  one  side  of  the  meat  is  done,  the  other  is  turned  to  the  fire. 
The  rabbit  which  they  obtained  was  first  roasted to  know  when 
it  was  done,  they,  the  Portuguese,  cracked  the  joints,  laid  it  by 
to  cool,  tore  it  to  pieces  with  their  fingers,  and  then  fried  it  with 
onions,  garlic,  and  oil.  Provisions  in  Lisbon  are  in  general 
good ;  they  cultivate  several  English  vegetables,  among  which 
the  cauliflower  is  one  of  the  best.  But  the  potato  does  not 
succeed  ;  mutton  is  the  worst  meat  they  have.  The  Portuguese 
mode  of  killing  cattle  deserves  imitation  in  England  :  the  spinal 
marrow  is  pierced  with  a  small  knife  between  two  of  the  vertebrae 
of  the  neck,  and  the  animal  immediately  falls. 

Of  the  vineyards,  olive-yards,  and  groves,  and  orange  and 
lemon  gardens  of  Spain  and  Portugal,  it  is  unnecessary  to  speak, 
as  almost  every  one  knows  that  ivine,  olive-oil,  and  oranges  are 
produced  in  large  quantities  in  those  countries. 

We  cannot,  however,  avoid  presenting  one  or  two  reflections 
made  by  the  Poet  Laureate  upon  the  conclusion  of  Lent  in  Portu¬ 
gal.  “  Apicius  himself  might  envy  the  feelings  of  a  Catholic  on 
Easter  Eve.  After  doing  penance  for  forty  days  on  fish  and  soup 
meagre,  they  make  amends  for  it  by  falling  to  when  the  clock 
strikes  twelve ;  and  this  midnight  feast  is  said  to  do  them  more 
injury  than  all  the  previous  fasting.” 

Besides  wine,  oil,  and  oranges  and  lemons,  Spain  abounds 
more  or  less  in  nuts,  almonds,  and  the  fig.  The  fish  of  both  ! 
countries  are  of  various  kinds,  such  as  the  salmon,  trout,  eel,  &c. ; 
but,  as  has  been  stated,  the  cookery  of  both  kingdoms,  except  i 
when  improved  by  an  admixture  with  the  English  and  other  i 
nations,  as  at  Lisbon,  is  of  a  very  low  order.* 

*  We  have  been  favoured  with  the  perusal  of  a  MS.  written  by  a  I 
gentleman  who  was  an  officer  in  the  army  under  the  command  of  the 
Duke  of  Wellington,  and  who  passed  the  winter  in  Spain  near  Vittoria, 
in  1813.  By  this  it  appears  that  hares  in  the  woods  were  extremely 
large,  weighing  sometimes  as  much  as  eleven  pounds  ;  that  woodcocks 
were  in  such  plenty,  the  officers  made  them  into  pies  ;  quails  were 
scarce  ;  there  were  no  snipes.  It  appears  too  that  the  wine  was  so 
good  and  strong  that  most  of  the  men  were  frequently  intoxicated,  and 
also  some  of  the  officers ;  that  they  had  at  one  time  seventy  men  under 
arrest  for  drunkenness  !  which  was  not  wholly  prevented  by  flogging,  to 
which  recourse  was  had. 


I 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXVII 


To  conclude  our  outlines  of  the  cookery  of  these  peninsular 
nations,  the  fare  of  the  labouring  population  is,  from  the  most 
authentic  accounts,  meagre  in  the  extreme,  and  made  up  chiefly 
of  bread  not  fermented,  bacon,  Spanish  pease  or  beans,  oil,  gar¬ 
lic,  greens,  and  a  common  wine  worth  from  one  penny  to  three 
pence  a  bottle.  It  is  said  that  a  family  of  four  persons  will,  in 
Catalonia  and  other  provinces  near  the  sea,  dine  upon  half  a 
pound  of  salt  fish,  bread,  and  oil,  and  sup  on  a  lettuce. 

Of  the  cookery  of  other  yurts  of  the  European  continent  it  is  not 
our  intention,  nor  will  our  limits  permit  us  to  say  much.  Not¬ 
withstanding  our  friend  M. Careme  lived  some  years  at  Vienna, 
and  prefers  it  as  a  place  of  residence  to  either  London  or  Peters- 
burgh,  he  says  that  the  butchers’  shops  are  badly  conducted,  and 
that  both  the  beef,  mutton,  and  veal  are  very  indifferent,  badly 
bled,  and  very  disagreeable  to  dress.  The  markets  are,  however, 
full  of  game  of  all  kinds,  from  the  deer  and  the  wild-boar  down¬ 
wards  to  a  variety  of  birds.  Fish,  such  as  salmon,  sturgeon,  trout, 
carp,  &c.  are  excellent.  Salt- water  fish  of  every  kind  are  dear,  as  they 
are  brought  from  Trieste,  a  port  in  the  Venetian  Gulf.  Above 
thirty  francs,  about  £l.  5s.  are  sometimes  paid  for  one  hundred  of 
oysters.  Fruit  of  various  kinds  is  abundant  and  good  ;  so  also 
are  vegetables  ;  but  during  the  winter  they  are  very  dear.  At 
Vienna,  as  well  as  in  Russia  and  in  England,  are  no  truffles  ; 
these  are  brought  from  Italy,  and  are  called  Roman  truffles;  they 
are  without  fumet,  and  very  rare  and  costly.  “  There  are  wanting 
at  Vienna  the  truffles  of  France,  the  jish  of  the  sea,  our  good  fruits 
of  winter,  and  our  exquisite  wines,”  says  Careme.  What  a  terrible 
misfortune  for  Austria,  as  well  as  for  England  and  Russia,  that 
all  these,  countries  produce  no  truffles.  Yet  he  admits  that  the 
Austrian  champignons  are  excellent.  ButM.  Careme,  in  his  zeal 
for  his  mother-country,  has  here  suffered  his  imagination  to  outrun 
his  knowledge.  The  truffle  is  a  native  of  this  country,  ‘‘  and  very 
common  on  the  downs  of  Wiltshire,  Hampshire,  and  Kent,  where 
dogs  are  trained  to  scent  it  out.”  See  Loudon’s  Cyclopcedia  of 
Gardening,  page  772;  and  also  page  19G  of  our  present  work. 
“  The  perfume  of  the  trufHe  betrays  it  to  dogs  and  pigs.”  Ta- 
bella  Cibaria,  page  61. 

The  bread  of  Vienna  is  very  good,  the  wine  not  expensive  ;  it 
is,  without  contradiction,  the  cheapest  city  to  live  in  to  be  found 
in  Europe  ;  but,  adds  Careme  with  his  usual  complacent  nai- 
v6t6,  it  cannot  be  compared  to  Paris ;  no  cily  possesses  in  such 
abundance  all  the  productions  of  gaslronomie  ! 

While  speaking  of  German  Cookery,  we  cannot  do  better  than 
extract  a  lew  lines  from  a  work,  entitled  “  Bubbles  from  the 
Brunnens  of  Nassau.”  During  the  fashionable  season  at  Lan- 
genschwalbach,  the  dinner  hour  at  all  the  salles  is  one  o’clock. 
“  Seated  at  the  table  of  the  Allee  Saal,  I  counted  one  hundred 
and  eighty  people  at  dinner  in  one  room.  To  say  ina  single  word 
whether  the  fare  was  good  or  bad  would  be  quite  impossible,  it 
being  so  completely  different  from  any  thing  ever  met  with  in 


I  N 'PRODUCTION. 


xxxviii 

England.  To  my  simple  taste,  the  cookery  is  most  horrid  ;  still 
there  were  now  and  then  some  dishes,  particularly  sweet  ones, 
which  I  thought  excellent.  With  respect  to  the  made  dishes,  of 
which  there  were  a  great  variety,  I  beg  to  record  a  formula  which 
is  infallible  :  the  simple  rule  is  this— let  the  stranger  taste  the 
dish,  and  if  it  be  not  sour,  he  may  be  quite  certain  that  it  is 
greasy :  again,  if  it  be  not  greasy,  let  him  not  eat  thereof,  for 
then  it  is  sure  to  be  sour.  With  regard  to  the  order  of  the  dishes, 
that  too  is  unlike  anything  Mrs  Glass  ever  thought  of:  after  soup, 
which  all  over  the  world  is  the  alpha  of  the  gourmand’s  alpha¬ 
bet,  the  barren  meat  from  which  the  said  soup  has  been  extracted 
is  produced  ;  of  course  it  is  dry,  tasteless,  withered-looking  stud-, 
which  a  Grosvenor-square  cat  would  not  touch  with  its  whiskers, 
but  this  dish  is  always  attended  by  a  couple  of  satellites — the  one, 
a  quantity  of  cucumber  stewed  in  vinegar;  the  other,  a  black 
greasy  sauce  ;  and  if  you  dare  accept  a  piece  of  this  flaccid  beef, 
you  are  instantly  thrown  between  Scylla  and  Charybdis,  for  so 
sure  as  you  decline  the  indigestible  cucumber,  souse  comes  into 
your  plate  a  deluge  of  the  sickening  grease.  After  the  company 
have  eaten  heavily  of  messes,  which  it  would  be  impossible  to 
describe,  in  comes  some  nice  salmon, — then  fowls, — then  pud¬ 
dings, —  then  meat  again, — then  stewed  fruit, — and  after  the 
English  stranger  has  fallen  back  in  his  chair  quite  beaten,  a  leg 
of  mutton  majestically  makes  its  appearance!  The  pig  who 
lives  in  his  sty  would  have  some  evcuse,  but  it  is  really  quite 
shocking  to  see  any  other  animal  overpowering  himself  at  midday 
with  such  a  mixture  and  superabundance  of  food.  Yet  only 
think,”  says  our  author,  “  what  a  compliment  all  this  is  to  the 
mineral  waters  of  Langetischwalbach ;  if  the  Naiads  of  the  Pauline 
can  be  of  real  service  to  a  stomach  full  of  vinegar  and  grease, 
how  much  more  effectually  ought  they  to  tinker  up  the  inside  of 
him  who  has  sense  enougli  to  sue  them  in  forma  pauperis .” 

Thus  much  is  learned  from  this  source  regarding  German  cook¬ 
ery ;  and  truly,  if  the  picture  be  not  overcharged,  which  the  wit 
and  vivacity  of  the  writer  strongly  tempt  us  to  suspect,  a  very 
pretty  task  the  natives  impose  upon  their  digestive  organs  ;  but 
after  all  it  appears  that  the  arrangement  is  more  in  fault  than  the 
preparations,  and  the  quantity  than  the  quality  of  the  food. 
Germans  resident  in  this  country  assert  that  in  their  cookery  they 
employ  nothing  sour  except  sour  crout.  Fat,  however,  they  do 
delight  in.  All  vegetables,  such  as  cabbage,  spinach,  potatoes, 
they  first  boil,  and  then  chop  up,  and  fry  either  with  butter  or 
lard,  and  indeed  they  prefer  all  vegetables  boiled,  either  in  the 
same  water  with  meat,  or  with  tire  addition  of  fat  of  some  kind, 
and  that  in  no  small  quantity. 

Of  Russian  Cookery,  M.  Carev.e  says  that  the  Russians  as 
well  as  other  nations  have  certain  ragouts  and  national  entre¬ 
mets  ;  but  these  do  not  constitute  a  system  of  cookery.  Their 
butchers-meat  is  very  indifferent ;  ihe  veal  of  Archangel  only  is 
esteemed,  but  not  equal  to  the  veal  of  Pontoise.  Russia,  Poland, 


1 NTUO  RUCTION. 


XX  XIX 


and  Germany,  according  to  the  same  authority,  have  their  but- 
chers-meat  equally  bad  ;  after  Paris,  says  Careme,  I  prefer  that 
of  London.  The  pullets  of  Russia  are  poor  and  small,  and  their 
other  poultry  cannot  be  compared  with  the  tine  Volatile  of  France  ; 
and  in  that  country  Normandy  affords  the  best.  The  game  of 
Russia  is  of  course  not  as  plentiful  as  it  is  in  France  and^other 
more  favourable  climates.  In  the  northern  parts  they  have  the 
rein-deer  and  goats,  as  well  as  sheep  and  other  cattle.*  Of  fish, 
they  have  the  sturgeon  in  many  of  the  rivers  in  great  perfection, 
whence  so  much  of  the  isinglass  consumed  in  this  and  other  coun¬ 
tries  is  obtained :  the  liver,  spawn,  and  other  internal  parts  of 
this  fish  are  pickled  by  the  Russians,  and  sold  by  them  under  the 
name  of  Caviare.  They  have  also  the  salmon,  &c. ;  but  it  is 
said  there  are  no  eels  found  in  the  Volga  or  the  streams  east  of 
that  river.  It  is  said,  too,  that  the  herring,  usually  found  only  in 
the  sea,  is  to  be  obtained  in  some  of  the  Russian  lakes.  In  a 
country  embracing  such  a  large  extent  of  climate,  a  variety  of 
cookery  must  necessarily  exist.  The  deer,  the  elk,  and  the  an¬ 
telope  are  among  the  wild  animals  of  the  forest;  the  wild  boar 
is  also  an  inhabitant  of  many  parts  of  Russia;  its  flesh  is  firm  and 
much  esteemed.  The  bustard  is  also  tolerably  plentiful  and 
cheap.  Of  culinary  vegetables,  cabbages,  onions,  garlic,  cu¬ 
cumbers,  and  turnips  are  raised  in  abundance,  and  these  form  a 
considerable  portion  of  the  food  of  the  peasantry.  Cranberries 
also  grow  in  great  perfection,  as  well  as  many  other  fruits  ;  and 
towards  the  south,  olives,  figs,  peaches,  grapes,  &c.,  are  com¬ 
mon,  and  produced  without  much  trouble.  Cherries  are  in  such 
abundance,  that  both  wine  and  vinegar  are  made  from  them. 

Of  Prussian  Cookery,  one  anecdote — and  we  can  admit  no 
more — shall  be  here  given.  It  is  said  that  the  present  king 
has  his  court  kitchen  on  wheels;  cooks,  saucepans,  fires,  and 
spits  are  whirled  along  in  rapid  accompaniment  to  majesty  ;  and 
the  king’s  dinner  roasts  in  close  attendance  upon  him.  At  Pots¬ 
dam,  Charlottenburgh,  or  Berlin,  the  word  dinner  instantly  pro¬ 
duces  it.  The  cooking  apparatus  even  awaits  the  king  at  the 
door  of  the  theatre,  See  the  New  Monthly  Magazine  for  Sep¬ 
tember,  1832.  We  may  just  add  that  the  wild  boar  and  the  elk 
are  occasionally  found  in  Prussia ;  that  game  is  plenty  in  some 
districts;  vegetables  are  also  in  tolerable  plenty,  but  fruit  is 
scarce ;  fish  near  the  Baltic  and  in  the  lakes  are  common,  and 
the  sturgeon  is  occasionally  taken  in  the  Oder. 

*  What  M.  Careme  says  of  Russian  cookery,  we  are  assured  by  an 
intelligent  Swiss,  who  resided  many  years  both  in  various  parts  of  that 
country  and  in  France,  is  true  only  of  St.  Petersburg.  He  observes  that 
though  the  cookery  of  the  common  people  is  execrable,  yet  the  higher 
classes  have  constantly  French  cooks.  The  butchers-meat,  too,  is  ex¬ 
cellent,  except  mutton,  of  which  they  have  but  little,  unless  such  as 
they  receive  frozen  from  the  interior,  sometimes  upwards  of  2000  miles, 
and  which  is  of  very  good  quality,  The  game,  too,  is  more  abundant 
than  even  in  France,  and  their  eels  are  plentiful  and  good. 


xl 


INTRODUCTION. 


Of  the  cookery  of  the  north  of  Europe  little  needs  to  be  said. 
The  rein-deer  of  the  Laplander  constitutes  his  principal  clothing 
and  support.  According  to  Dr.  Clarke  the  tops  of  potatoes  are 
in  Lapland  considered  a  delicate  vegetable  food  ;  while  in  this 
country  the  stalks  of  potatoes  are  of  no  importance  in  any 
way  but  as  manure.  It  might  also  be  mentioned  here  as  a  singu¬ 
larity  in  the  preparation  of  human  fo-d,  that  in  Norway  the 
inner  rind  of  some  of  the  pine  tribe  is  made  into  bread,  being 
powdered  and  mixed  with  rye-meal,  and  eaten  in  times  of 
scarcity.  In  this  country  the  cranberry  (see  page  278)  grows 
to  greater  perfection  than  in  England  ;  red  currants,  as  well  as 
whortle  berries  and  stone-brambles,  are  all  valuable  fruits  in 
those  northern  regions,  where  they  are  kept  under  the  snow  till 
winter,  and  then  being  mixed  with  rein-deer’s  milk,  (which  is 
kept  in  a  preserved  state,)  they  form  an  agreeable  variety  in  the 
Lapland  diet. 

English  Cookery.— Having  thus  sketched  an  outline  of  the 
cookery  of  modern  Europe,  as  well  as  the  most  important  ancient 
cookery,  we  have  yet  one  other  outline  to  draw,  and  that  is  of 
the  cookery  of  our  own  country,  to  which  it  is  na  tural  that  we  should 
be  partial ;  but  we  trust  that  what  we  have  said  in  many  places  in 
our  work  will  prove  that  we  are  not  disposed  to  consider  Eng¬ 
land  as  M.  Careme  does  France,  the  mother-country  of  cookery  ; 
although  we  hesitate  not  to  declare  that  in  substantial  and  whole¬ 
some  dishes  we  verily  believe  it  yields  to  no  nation  upon  earth  ; 
that  the  roast  beef  of  old  England  has  no  superior ;  and  that  it 
is  only  when  we  suffer  beef  and  other  substantial  viands  to  be 
spoiled  by  a  variety  of  sauces  and  other  unnecessary  adjuncts,  and 
bad  and  complicated  cookery,  that  we  render  such  food  improper 
for  the  human  stomach.  Added  to  which  mischief  is  the  rage 
(now  we  hope  on  the  decline)  of  having  excessively  fattened  ani¬ 
mals,  than  which  scarcely  any  thing  in  the  shape  of  animal  food  can 
be  more  unwholesome.  We  trust,  therefore,  that  we  shall  see 
no  more  of  pigs  exhibited  at  Christmas  so  fat,  that  even  their  eyes 
become  buried  in  the  rolls  of  the  skin  of  the  face  ;  and  the  ex¬ 
posed  fat  and  strong-smelling  tame  rabbit  will  cease  to  excite  the 
wonder  and  curiosity  of  the  passers-by.  M.  Careme,  above, 
speaks  of  modern  French  cookery  being  more  unctuous  than  the 
ancient;  now,  to  convert  this  word  into  plain  English,  it  means 
or  ought  to  mean  more  greasy ;  and  really,  little  as  we  desire 
a  very  dry  beef  steak  or  a  very  dry  mutton-chop,  the  chief  com¬ 
plaint  we  have  to  make  of  mutton  as  well  as  of  pork-chops  in  this 
country,  is,  that  they  are  too  unctuous,  too  greasy,  and  when  in 
this  state  are  very  often  unfitted  for  the  stomach.  Nothing  is  more 
revolting  to  many  stomachs  than  an  excess  of  fat.  You  may,  it  is 
true,  convert  animals  into  tallow  for  the  candle-maker  ;  but  we 
hope  we  shall  hear  no  more  of  shoulders  of  mutton  having  three 
or  four  inches  in  depth  of  fat  upon  them,  and  weighing,  as  we 
have  known  some  of  such  joints  weigh,  twenty  five  pounds  each, 
for  the  glory  and  honour  of  the  gourmand  and  the  grazier. 

Concerning  the  Cookery  practised  in  the  earliest  ages  in  Eng- 


I  INTRODUCTION. 


xli 

land  very  little  is  known.  Before  the  invasion  of  Julios  Caisar, 
the  inland  inhabitants  of  the  country  were  numerous  ;  they  kept 
large  herds  of  cattle,  and  lived  mostly  upon  milk  or  flesh,  some 
of  which  they  obtained  by  hunting.  According  to  Plutarch,  they 
were  habitually  regular  and  temperate.  But  we  cannot  doubt 
that  the  Romans,  who  held  at  least  nominal  possession  of  England 
for  the  long  period,  from  the  invasion  of  Cmsar,  of  five  hundred 
years,  must  have  introduced  some  of  their  luxurious  cookery  into 
this  country;  and  that  by  their  example  agriculture  was  intro¬ 
duced  and  became  in  fact  an  important  art ;  yet  almost  every  his¬ 
torian  agrees  in  the  fact  that  the  Romans  never  entirely  con¬ 
quered  this  country  ;  and  hence,  although  among  the  more  civi¬ 
lized  portion  of  the  inhabitants  some  of  the  Roman  horticulture  and 
cookery  remained  after  that  warlike  people  had  withdrawn  from 
the  island,  a  large  portion  of  the  people  continued  in  a  rude  and 
uncultivated  state,  and  their  cookery  was  necessarily  of  the 
simplest  kind.* 

That  cabbages  and  many  of  the  onion  tribe  were  known  in  this 
i  country  in  the  time  of  the  Romans,  there  is  no  doubt ;  but  it  is 
generally  understood  that  most  of  the  fruits  which  we  now 
possess  of  the  greatest  use  and  of  most  value,  were  introduced  by 
the  monks  or  other  ecclesiastics  during  the  twelfth  and  the 
three  succeeding  centuries.  We  had,  it  is  true,  then  as  now, 

*  Yet  if  we  may  trust  to  the  account  presented  to  us  by  Mr.  Whis- 
TLECRAFT,  a  name  by  the  way  that  is  sub  umbra,  the  substantial  enter- 
>  tainments  of  Christmas  during  what  has  been  called  the  “  olden  tyme,” 

■  the  days  of  good  King  ARTHUR,  a  king  as  much  sub  umbra  as  is  Mr. 

!  Whistlecraft  himself,  (see  Time’s  Telescope  for  1823,  page  338;) — if 
we  may  trust,  we  repeat,  poetical  history,  the  days  of  King  Arthur  were 
i  none  of  the  worst  days  of  cookery,  when 

He  held  his  royal  Christmas  at  Carlisle, 

And  thither  came  the  vassals,  most  and  least. 

From  every  corner  of  the  British  isle. 

The  bill  of  fare  (as  you  may  well  suppose) 

Was  suited  to  those  plentiful  old  times. 

Before  our  modern  luxuries  arose. 

With  truffles  and  ragouts  and  various  crimes. 

They  served  up  salmon,  venison,  and  wild  boars. 

By  hundreds,  and  by  dozens,  and  by  scores. 

,  Hogsheads  of  honey,  kilderkins  of  mustard. 

Muttons,  and  fatted  beeves,  and  bacon  swine ; 

Herons,  and  bitterns,  peacock,  swan,  and  bustard, 

'feat,  mallard,  pigeons,  widgeons,  and,  in  fine. 

Plum -pudding,  pancakes,  apple-pies,  and  custard  : 

And  therewithal  they  drank  good  Gascon  wine. 

With  mead,  and  ale,  and  cyder  of  our  own  : 

For  porter,  punch,  and  negus  were  not  known. 

At  this  feast  were 

Pilgrims  and  penitents,  and  grave  burgesses  ; 

The  country  people  with  their  coats  of  leather  ; 

Vintners  and  victuallers  with  cans  and  messes,  &c.  &c. 


INTRODUCTION. 


xlii 

a  few  indigenous  fruits,  such  as  the  acorn,  blackberries,  rasp¬ 
berries,  wild  plums,  wild  strawberries,  cranberries,  and  a  few 
others,  including  hazel-nuts,  but  all  our  favourite  fruits  are 
originally  of  foreign  growth.  We  learn  from  Thomas  Tusser, 
who  flourished  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  who  published  a 
work  which  he  called  Five  hundred  Points  of  Good  Husbandrie,fyc. 
that  his  book  contained  an  account  of  seedes  and  herbes  for  the 
kychen — herbes  and  roots  for  sallels  and  sawce — herbes  and  roots  to 
botjle  or  to  butter — strewing  herbes  of  all  sorts — herbes  to  still  in  sum¬ 
mer — necessary  herbes  to  grow  in  gardens  for  physick,  #c.  The  list 
contains  more  than  one  hundred  and  fifty  kinds,  besides  a  variety 
of  apples,  apricots,  cherries,  peaches,  plums,  barberries,  filberts, 
grapes  both  red  and  white,  medlars,  mulberries,  pears,  quinces, 
strawberries  red  and  white,  walnuts,  &c.  The  orange,  pomegranate, 
and  melon  were  introd  uced  soon  afterwards ;  the  pine-apple  in  1G90. 
Of  the  cookery  of  the  time  in  which  Tusser  wrote,  nearly  three  cen¬ 
turies  ago,  we  may  judge  in  some  degree  by  the  following  lines, 
entitled 

Christmas  Husbandry  Fare. 

Good  husband  and  huswife,  now  chiefly  be  glad 
Things  handsome  to  have  as  they  ought  to  be  had. 

They  both  do  provide  against  Christinas  do  come. 

To  welcome  good  neighbour,  good  cheer  to  have  some. 

Good  bread  and  good  drink,  a  good  fire  in  the  hall. 

Brawn,  pudding,  and  sauce,  and  good  mustard  withal. 

Beef,  mutton,  and  pork,  sh’red  pies  of  the  best. 

Pig,  veal,  goose,  and  capon,  and  turkey  well  drest. 

Cheese,  apples,  and  nuts,  jolly  carols  to  hear 
As  then  in  the  country  is  counted  good  cheer. 

The  Citizens  of  London  have  been  long  famous  for  their  sumptu¬ 
ous  entertainments  and  their  varieties  of  cookery  ;  and  hence  it  is 
not  surprising  that  there  have  been  long  established  among  them 
several  incorporated  companies  which  minister  more  especially 
to  the  pleasures  of  the  table ;  among  which  there  are  ten  that 
are,  at  the  present  time,  of  more  or  less  importance  to  the  citizens, 
relative  to  their  food  and  drink. 

In  1313  the  following  prices  were  set  on  victuals:  a  fat 
stalled  ox,  twenty-four  shillings  ;  a  fat  mutton,  twenty  pence ;  a 
fat  goose,  two-pence  halfpenny  ;  a  fat  capon,  two-pence ;  a  fat  hen, 
one  penny  ;  twenty-four  eggs,  one  penny,  &c. 

1314.  The  famine  and  mortality  of  people  were  so  great  at  this 
time,  that  the  living  could  scarcely  bury  the  dead.  Horse-flesh 
and  dog-flesh  were  good  meat. 

1316.  An  early  harvest :  a  bushel  of  wheat  that  had  been  sold 
for  ten  shillings,  was  now  sold  for  ten-pence. 

To  the  unobservant  ol  the  present  time,  such  fluctuations  appear 
astonishing.  We  are  now  so  much  accustomed  to  the  regular  and 
constant  operation  of  the  supply  and  demand  for  food,  that  we 
cease  to  wonder  at  the  two  processes;  whereas,  when  carefully 
examined,  they  will  be  found  deserving  of  very  great  attention. 
Even  the  supply  of  coal  has  within  these  few'  years  become  so 
completely  under  the  control  and  regulation  of  human  intellect, 


INTRODUCTION. 


xliii 

that  the  fluctuation  in  its  price  is  comparatively  trifling ;  and  the 
lowest  citizen  may  now  calculate  with  tolerable  certainty,  if 
behave  been  industrious,  what  his  Sunday  dinner  will  cost  him,  as 
well  as  the  price  of  cooking  it  either  at  home  or  at  the  baker’s 
See  an  important  article  on  the  use  of  corn  in  England,  iD  the 
Penny  Mag.  vol.  ii.  p.  370,  from  which  it  appears  that  some  of 
the  Anglo-Saxon  monks  in  the  eighth  century  ate  barley-bread 
because  the  income  of  their  establishments  would  not  permit  them 
to  eat  that  of  wheat.  It  appears  that  at  the  Revolution  in  1689 
wheuten  bread  formed  a  small  portion  only  of  the  food  of  the 
people  of  this  country  ;  about  fourteen  million  bushels  of  which 
were  then  grown  in  England.  In  1828,  according  to  Mr.  Jacob, 
one  hundred  millions  of  bushels  were  grown  ;  and  thus  in  the 
former  period  about  three  bushels  were  consumed  by  each  person, 
in  the  latter  seven. 

That  luxury  has  always  more  or  less  prevailed  among  the  good 
citizens  of  London,  its  history  for  the  last  five  hundred  years  will 
evince.  In  the  time  of  Queen  Mary,  according  to  Maitland, 
( History  of  London,  vol.  i,  p.  251)  luxury  prevailed  to  such  an 
excessive  degree  in  the  sumptuousness  and  extravagance  of  the 
city  magistrates,  that  many  of  the  principal  citizens  chose  rather 
to  retire  into  the  country  than  to  serve  expensive  offices.  It 
was  therefore  enacted  by  the  Common  Council,  to  prevent  such 
extravagances,  that  the  mayor  should  have  no  more  than  one 
course  either  at  dinner  or  supper  ;  and  that  on  a  festival  day  a 
flesh  day  to  consist  of  no  more  than  seven  dishes  whether  hot  or 
cold,  and  on  every  festival  day  being  a  fish  day,  eight  dishes  ; 
and  on  every  common  flesh  day,  six  dishes ;  and  on  every  common 
fish  day,  seven  dishes,  exclusive  of  brawn,  collops  with  eggs, 
salads,  potage,  butter,  eggs,  herrings,  sprats  and  shrimps,  together 
with  all  sorts  of  shell  fish  and  fruits. 

Regulations  were  also  issued  for  the  aldermen,  sheriffs,  and 
city  companies  at  their  several  entertainments ;  but  with  this 
restriction  besides,  that  they  were  to  have  neither  swan,  crane, 
nor  bustard  under  the  penalty  of  forty  shillings.  At  the  present 
time  one  cannot  but  smile  at  the  egregious  folly  of  issuing  such 
sumptuary  edicts.  If  the  good  sense  of  mankind,  and  the  natural 
punishments  which  await  upon  the  commission  of  excesses  either 
in  eating  or  drinking,  do  not  prompt  men  to  avoid  them,  no  laws 
will  do  it.  The  habitual  glutton,  the  habitual  drunkard,  may  be 
assured  that  sooner  or  later  their  natural  punishments  will  overtake 
i  them. 

We  must  not  forget  that  the  Catholic  religion  was  the  state 
|  religion  in  the  time  of  Mary,  and  that  then,  and  indeed  during 
many  centuries  previously,  the  cookery  of  this  country  partook 
r  of  the  peculiar  fasting  as  well  as  feasting  which  that  religion  is 
j  |  calculated  to  introduce.  But  it  appears  that  after  this  period, 
e  |  during  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  that  is,  about  250  years  ago, 
j  venison  feasts,  as  at  the  present  time,  predominated  in  London  in 
the  month  of  July,  and  that  such  feasting  proved  offensive  to  the 
queen  and  her  nobility  ;  and  hence  a  letter,  signed  by  the  lord 

4 


INTRODUCTION. 


xliv 

mayor  and  two  aldermen,  was  addressed  to  Lord  Burleigh,  in 
which  they  say,  “  For  avoyding  the  excessive  spending  of  venison 
and  other  vitail  in  the  halles  of  this  citie,  which  we  understand 
to  have  been  offensive  to  her  matie  and  the  nobilitie,  we  have  by 
act  of  common  counsel  forbidden  such  festes  hereafter  to  be  kept, 
and  have  restrained  the  same  only  to  necessary  metinges  in  wh 
also  venison  is  permitted  as  by  copie  of  this  act  herewith  sent  into 
yor  L.  may  appere.” 

These  worshipful  personages  complain  also  in  their  letter  of  the 
expense  of  venison  in  taverns  and  cooks’  houses,  and  also  of  the 
many  and  great  enormities  botli  of  drunkenness,  seditions,  &c. 
&c.,  which  they  say  they  have  sought  means  to  redress  by  re¬ 
straining  the  eating  and  drinking  in  such  houses.  But  they  at 
the  same  time  say  that  unless  the  same  proceedings  be  adopted  in 
St.  Martin’s  and  Westminster,  &c.  their  proceedings  will  not  be 
of  much  use.  See  Ellis's  original  Letters. 

There  is  one  anecdote  concerning  the  sirloin  that  has  been  fre¬ 
quently  ,old;  it  is,  that  King  Charles  II.,  called  sometimes 
the  Merry  Monarch,  after  dining  off  a  loin  of  beef,  was  so  much 
pleased  with  it,  that  he  said  it  should  be  knighted ;  that  he  per¬ 
formed  the  ceremony  of  creating  a  knight  over  the  loin ,  and 
that  henceforward  it  has  been  called  sirloin.  In  accordance  with 
this  presumed  fact,  Mr.  Preston,  a  poet  who  flourished  !j 
towards  the  end  of  the  last  century,  wrote  an  address  to  the 
sirloin,  which  thus  concludes  : — 

Preserv’d  in  poet’s  matchless  lay. 

Sirloin!  thou  shalt  ne’er  decay. 

But  according  to  the  author  of  Tabella  Cibaria,  the  word  sirloin 
only  means  sur-loin — the  part  above  (sur)  the  loins;  and  this 
seems  the  most  probable  etymology  of  the  word.  If  any  other 
authority  were  necessary  for  this,  we  might  quote  Sir  Walter 
Scott,  who  thus  describes  ancient  Christmas: — 

They  open  wide  the  baron’s  hall. 

To  vassal,  tenant,  serf,  and  all  ; 

Power  laid  his  rod  of  rule  aside. 

And  ceremony  doff’d  his  pride. 

There  the  huge  sirloin  reek’d  ;  hard  by 
Plum  porridge  stood,  and  Christmas  pie. 

The  fire,  with  well-dried  logs  supplied. 

Went  roaring  up  the  chimney  wide. 

It  was  also  usual  in  some  gentlemen’s  houses  at  Christmas,  that 
the  first  dish  should  be  a  boar’s  head  with  a  lemon  in  its  mouth.  A 
custom  was  once,  and  is  still  said  to  be  prevalent  in  some  parts  of 
England,  (see  Hone’s  Table-Boolc,  page  390)  of  eating  a  gammon 
of  bacon  at  Easter  ;  we  may  also  state  that  on  Shrove-Tuesday 
Frey  peas  and  bacon,  (as  well  as  pancakes  as  an  after-dish)  often 
formed  a  substantial  meal  among  our  rural  population  and  in  farm¬ 
houses,  then,  as  well  as  at  other  times  before  and  during  Lent. 

Towards  the  conclusion  of  the  seventeenth  century,  we  had  the 
able  naturalist  Ray,  who  was  an  accurate  observer,  and  did  j 
much  to  increase  our  knowledge  ;  but  still  the  art  of  cookery  was  I 


INTRODUCTION. 


xlv 


t 

1 

ll 

a 

J 

D 

1- 

ie 

id 

as 


in  a  very  degraded  state.  By  far  the  most  important  book  on  this 
subject  which  appeared  at  the  commencement  of  the  eighteenth 
century  on  Cookery,  was  the  ‘‘  Art  of  Cookery,  in  imitation  of  Horace's 
Art  of  Poetry,  with  some  letters  to  Dr.  Lister  and  others,  occasioned 
principally  by  the  title  of  a  book  published  by  the  Doctor,  being- 
the  works  of  Apicius  Ccslius  concerning  the  soups  and  sauces  of 
the  ancients,  with  an  extract  of  the  greatest  curiosities  contained 
in  that  book  :  humbly  inscribed  to  the  Honourable  Beef-steak 
Club.  By  William  King,  L.L.D.  1709,”  and  certainly  Dr.  King’s 
work  and  the  prose  which  is  appended  to  it  deserve  perusal  by 
those  who  take  an  interest  in  our  art. 

Dr.  King  was  a  native  of  London,  and  seems  to  have  imbibed  a 
strong  prejudice  against  country  persons,  imagining,  because  they 
are  plain  in  their  manners  and  homely  in  their  attire,  that  they 
know  nothing:  now,  we  can  tell  him  and  others  such,  that  in  re¬ 
gard  to  cookery  in  particular,  a  plain  and  good  substantial  dish 
is  more  likely  to  be  obtained  in  the  country  than  in  the  town,  be¬ 
cause  the  farmer’s  wife  attends  to  the  cookery  herself,  and  also 
because  our  good  housewives  of  the  country  are  less  likely  to  be 
corrupted  by  cookery-books,  such  as  were  then  to  be  obtained,  and 
the  soups  and  sauces  too  prevalent  at  the  tables  of  the  citizens  : 
with  an  extract  from  King’s  prose  we  shall  leave  him. 

‘‘  Cookery  has  an  influence  upon  men’s  actions”  [see  page  238 
of  the  present  work]  ‘‘  even  in  the  highest  stations  of  human  life. 
The  great  philosopher  Pythagoras,  in  his  *  Golden  Verses,’  shews 
himself  to  be  extremely  nice  in  eating,  when  he  makes  it  one  of 
his  chief  principles  of  morality  to  abstain  from  beans.  The  noblest 
foundations  of  honour,  justice,  and  integrity  were  found  to  Jie  hid 
in  turnips  ;  for  when  Cincinnatus  left  the  plough  to  take  the  com¬ 
mand  of  the  Roman  army,  and  afterwards  retired  to  his  cottage, 
having  brought  home  victory,  the  Samnite  ambassadors  came  to 
him  and  tempted  him  with  a  large  bribe,  they  found  him  dressing 
turnips;  on  which  they  withdrew,  convinced  that  it  was  impossible 
to  prevail  upon  him  who  could  be  contented  with  such  a  supper. 
In  short,”  says  King,  “there  are  no  honorary  appellations  which 
may  not  be  applied  to  cooks  ;  throughout  the  whole  race  of  Char¬ 
lemagne  the  great  cook  of  the  palace  was  one  of  the  prime  mini¬ 
sters  of  state.”  After  speaking  of  Apicius,  and  informing  us  that 
his  cookery  was  contemned  and  almost  abhorred  by  Seneca  and  the 
sober  Roman,  and  that  it  was  neglected  till  the  inferior  ages  when 
it  was  introduced  as  a  help  to  physic  [a  very  pretty  help  indeed  !] 
to  which  Donatus  says  that  the  “  kitchen  is  a  handmaid,”  [and  a 
handmaid  it  certainly  is  of  the  most  important  kind  when  employ¬ 
ed  discreetly  and  with  suitable  knowledge,]  “  I  remember,”  con¬ 
tinues  Dr.  King,  “in  our  days,  that,  by  a  very  good  author,  an  old 
gentleman  is  introduced  as  making  use  of  three  doctors,  Dr.  Diet, 
Dr.  Quiet,  and  Dr.  Merriman.  They  are  reported  to  be  excellent 
physicians ;  and  if  kept  at  a  constant  pension,  their  fees  will  not  be 
very  costly.” 

As  we  have  not  said  any  thing  in  this  sketch  of  Welch 
Cookery,  a  few  lines  from  Dr.  King’s  work  may  be  acceptable. 


X I V I 


INTRODUCTION. 


“  Our  Cambrian  fathers,  sparing  in  their  food. 

First  boiled  their  hunted  goats  on  bars  of  wood. 

Sharp  hunger  was  their  seasoning,  or  they  took 
Such  salt  as  issued  from  the  native  rock. 

Their  sallading  was  never  far  to  seek, 

The  poignant  water-grass  or  savoury  leek  ; 

Until  the  British  bards  adorn’d  this  isle. 

And  taught  them  how  to  roast  and  how  to  boil. 

Then  Taliessin  rose  and  sweetly  strung 
His  British  harp,  instructing  while  he  sung; 

Taught  them  that  honesty  they  still  possess. 

Their  truth,  their  open  heart,  their  modest  dress  ; 

Duty  to  kindred,  constancy  to  friends. 

And  inward  worth  which  always  recommends; 

Contempt  of  wealth,  aud  pleasure  to  appear 
To  all  mankind  with  hospitable  cheer.” 

We  can  subscribe  to  the  main  truths  in  the  above  picture,  and 
can  also  with  much  pleasure  state  that  our  Cambrian  friends  of 
the  present  time  are  still  eminently  distinguished  for  their  hospi¬ 
tality. 

Hut  we  must  proceed  towards  the  cookery  of  our  own  times,  be¬ 
fore  noticing  which  a  lew  observations  on  the  more  early  modes  of 
cooking  may  be  here  introduced. 

After  the  method  of  obtaining  fire  was  discovered,  it  appears,  as 
we  have  seen  in  treating  of  the  cookery  of  the  primeval  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  that  the  roasting  of  corn  formed  one  of  the  methods 
of  rendering  food  agreeable ;  and  it  is  not  at  all  improbable  that 
fire  was  soon  after  employed  for  the  preparation  of  animal  food  by 
broiling  it ;  but  we  find  that  baked  meats,  as  well  as  boiled  meats, 
the  vessels  in  which  they  were  prepared  being  distinguished  in 
Scriptures  by  the  name  of  fiesh-pols,  formed  a  portion  of  the 
cookery  of  the  Egyptians  and  doubtless  of  the  Israelites.  Such 
cookery,  as  well  as  the  baking  of  bread  in  ovens  as  well  as  on 
a  hot  hearth  in  a  vessel  covered  over  with  hot  ashes,  appears 
to  have  been  practised  from  the  earliest  times.  Indeed,  so  early 
as  the  time  of  Abraham  cakes  were  made,  that  is,  baked  upon 
the  hearth.  And  as  Moses  directed  many  of  the  offerings  of  the 
people  to  be  prepared  by  fire,  either  by  roasting  upon  the  altar,  by 
baking  in  an  oven,  by  frying  in  the  frying-pan,  or  by  boiling,  the 
Israelites  were  thus  early  informed  concerning  the  best  practices 
of  cookery.  When  roasting  with  a  spit  was  introduced  it  would  be 
difficult  to  ascertain  even  as  regards  this  country  ;  but  spits  were 
first  turned  by  the  hand,  a  boy  being  generally  employed  for  the 
purpose,  although,  as  we  have  seen  above,  they  were  a  short  time 
since,  even  in  Portugal,  turned  only  once  during  the  roasting  of 
the  meat ;  and  it  is  said  that  Lemery,  the  chemist,  who  flourished 
at  the  commencement  of  the  eighteenth  century,  once  saw  a 
goose  turning  a  spit  on  which  a  turkey  was  roasting.  ( Tabella  Ci- 
baria,  page  39.)  Dogs  were  formerly  much,  and  are  now,  we 
believe,  occasionally  employed  as  turn-spits,  particularly  in  the 
country,  where  the  progress  of  improvements  is  slow.  A  word  oi 
two  more  about  the  spit  :  it  was  used  in  Virgil’s  time,  and  we 


INTRODUCTION.  xlvii 

dare  say  long  before;  but  then  it  was  made  of  hazel ;  why,  it  is 
difficult  to  say  :  “  a  guilty  goat”  was  sacrificed, 

Stabit  sacer  ad  aram 

P'mguia (pie  in  verubus  torrebimus  exta  columis. 

“  Whose  offer’d  entrails  shall  his  crime  reproach. 

And  drip  their  fatness  from  the  hazel  broach 

Dryden. 

The  author  of  Tahella  Cibaria  has  a  note  upon  this  subject  (page 
32)  which  the  curious  may  consult.  We  will  merely  add  that 
when  an  ox  is  roasted  icliole  in  the  country  at  the  present  time,  the 
spit  is  made  of  wood;  that,  although  there  may  be  a  sort  of 
splendour  in  the  undertaking,  it  is  not  a  process  which  we  can  re¬ 
commend  :  we  once  had  a  hand  in  such  cookery;  the  spit  w?as 
turned  by  the  hand  ;  the  ox  was  too  much  done  in  the  body 
and  too  little  at  the  head  and  tail;  it  was  decidedly  a  wasteful 
method  of  cooking;  and  we  should  think  it  very  probable  that  a 
sheep  roasted  whole  is  liable  to  the  same  inconvenience.  Smoke- 
jacks  are  a  capital  improvement  in  the  method  of  turning  the  spit. 
There  is  one  apparatus  which  has  been  long  in  use  in  this  country, 
to  which  most  of  our  citizens  are,  we  believe,  total  strangers.  It 
consists  of  what  are  called  in  our  dictionaries  andirons,  that  is,  irons 
to  hold  the  spit  as  in  the  hand,  so  that  it  may  turn  readily  ;  they 
should  therefore  be  called  handirons  :  they  are  essential  to  the 
support  of  the  spit  when  the  fire  is  made  without  a  grate  upon  the 
hearth.  But  these  vestiges  of  our  old  methods  of  roasting  are  now 
become  rusty  and  little  known.  Baking  upon  the  hearth  under  an 
inverted  iron  pot  covered  all  over  with  hot  ashes  is  still  practised 
by  many  of  our  rural  population.  We  may  be  also  tolerably 
certain  that  baked  meats  formed  a  very  common  dish  among  our 
ancestors,  for  we  find  in  Shakespeare  that 

“  The  funeral  bak’d  meats 

Did  coldly  furnish  forth  the  marriage  tables.” — Hamlet. 

As  to  the  manner  in  which  dishes  were  formerly  served  up,  it  is  a 
fact,  that  in  many  of  our  rural  districts  a  complete  set  of  pewter 
platters  and  plates  were  kept  and  formed  a  distinguishing  charac¬ 
teristic  of  the  kitchen  dresser.  This  pewter  was  kept  bright  by 
proper  scouring. 

“  At  your  dessert  bright  pewter  comes  too  late, 

When  your  first! course  was  all  served  up  in  plate.” 

King. 

But  among  the  more  humble  peasantry  and  small  farmers,  within 
our  recollection,  trenchers,  either  square  or  round,  were  in  common 
use  in  the  West.  To  advert  to  the  use  of  tea  :  we  can  very  well  re¬ 
member  an  old  lady  born  in  the  beginning  of  the  last  century,  who 
had  so  little  notion  of  the  nature  of  tea,  that  when  her  daughter 
brought  her  some  from  Bath,  she  boiled  it  in  water,  and  s  lid  she 


INTRODUCTION. 


xlviii 

thought  it  must  be  best  with  rum  or  salt  in  it.  What  then,  it  may 
be  asked,  did  such  persons  eat  for  their  breakfast?  Bread  and 
milk,  bread  and  cheese  with  beer,  or  animal  broth  of  some  kind, 
thickened  with  oatmeal,  with  the  addition  of  milk,  and  flaxoured 
with  leeks,  or  the  petals  of  marigold  flowers,  or  parsley. 

“  What  lord  of  old  would  bid  his  cook  prepare 
Mangoes,  potargo,  champignons,  caviare  ; 

Or  would  our  thrum-capp’d  ancestors  find  fault 
For  want  of  sugar-tongs  or  spoons  for  salt.” 

King. 

Perhaps  not,  as  sugar  was  little,  if  at  all,  known  in  this  country 
before  the  discovery  of  the  West  Indies,  honey,  as  in  other  places  in 
ancient  times,  supplying  its  place.  And  salt,  although  brought 
to  the  table  in  some  vessel,  was  possibly  taken  up  by  the  knife  or  : 
the  fingers.  But  the  vinegar- cruet  has  long  been  known  ;  and  we 
suppose,  before  the  general  introduction  of  glass,  that  vinegar  j 
must  have  been  brought  to  the  table  in  a  vessel  of  earthenware.  ; 
The  Romans  brought  it  to  their  entertainments  in  a  sort  of  cup,  , 
which  they  called  acetabulum,  and  hence,  from  the  familiarity  of  , 
the  thing,  the  anatomists  called,  in  ancient  times,  the  sockets  of  1 
some  of  our  bones  and  that  of  the  thigh-bone  in  particular,  the  us 
femoris,  acetabulum.  The  pepper-box,  too,  is  an  old  article  and  was  for¬ 
merly  made  of  brass.  The  salt-cellar  and  salt-box  are  also  old  inmates 
of  our  dwellings.  As  salt  so  readily  absorbs  moisture  from  the  air, 
the  box  was,  and  generally  now  is,  hung  up  in  some  place  near  the 
fire.  The  skimmer  and  ladle  are  also  old  articles,  formerly  of  more 
importance  than  they  now  are,  particularly  the  last.  The  first  was 
usually,  and  sometimes  now  is,  very  improperly  made  of  brass,  as 
many  other  implements  of  cookery  too  often  were  ;  more  especially 
as  it  was  a  very  common  practice  to  boil  on  it  in  the  pot  a  cake  made 
of  flour  and  suet  with  the  addition  sometimes  of  currants  ;  and 
hence  it  was  called  skimmer-cake.  The  ladles  were  of  wood  :  some  of 
them  were  large  enough  in  the  bowl  to  dip  up  apple-dumplings,  which 
were  always  boiled  without  a  cloth  in  the  open  vessel.  But  bas¬ 
ting-ladles  were  then  made  of  brass.  And  as  for  milk-puns,  they 
were  all  seen  shining  in  brass  under  the  dresser  or  some  conve¬ 
nient  place.  But  these  are  now  very  generally  superseded  by 
earthenware,  of  which  that  called  stone-ware  is  unquestionably  the 
best  Of  the  utility  of  milk-pans  made  of  zinc,  which  some  gen¬ 
tleman  farmer  has  lately  proposed  for  the  dairy,  we  cannot  speak. 
As  zinc  combines  with  the  lactic  acid,  we  suspect,  therefore,  its 
wholesomeness  for  such  vessels.  Of  all  metallic  bodies  after 
gold  and  silver,  to  which  may  be  added  platinum,  iron  is  beyond 
a  doubt  the  most  wholesome  ;  but,  from  its  liability  to  rust,  even 
tnat  becomes  sometimes  disagreeable.  Dripping-pans  are  now 
most  commonly  made  of  tin-plate  ;  but  we  have  seen  many  old 
dripping-pans  entirely  of  iron,  and  of  such  material  they,  we 
doubt  not,  in  ancient  times  most  commonly  were. 

How  some  of  the  better  sort  of  country  folk  fared  in  the  time  of 


INTRODUCTION. 


xlix 

Shakespeare,  we  may  learn  by  what  directions  are  given  by  Jus¬ 
tice  Shallow,  (Henry  IV.  Part  II.  Act  v.)  a  Gloucestershire  ma¬ 
gistrate,  to  his  cook  : 

“  Some  pigeons,  Davy  ;  a  couple  of  short-legged  hens  ;  a  joint  of 
mutton;  and  any  pretty,  little,  tiny  kickshaws.” 

What  was  considered  the  fare  of  a  gourmand  in  those  days  we 
may  learn  from  the  same  source  by  the  papers  found  in  the  pocket, 
of  Falstaff,  (Henry  IV.  Part  I.  Act  ii.) 

“  A  capon  2s.  2d. ;  sauce  4 d.  ;  sack,  2  gallons,  5s.  8 d.  ;  anchovies  and 
sack  after  supper  2s.  6 d.  ;  bread,  a  halfpenny.” 

We  must  not  forget  that  tea,  sugar,  coffee,  chocolate,  cocoa,  and 
potatoes  are  comparatively  of  modern  introduction,  and  were  not 
known  to  our  Anglo-Saxon  ancestors ;  and  consequently  they 
could  have  no  such  meal  as  that  which  we  call  Tea.  They  supped 
much  earlier  than  we  now  do  ;  although  in  many  parts  of  the 
country  at  the  present  time  supper  is  often  over,  particularly  in 
winter  time,  long  before  our  fashionables  have  dined.  On  the 
meals  and  their  periods  a  curious  account  may  be  here  given  ;  but 
our  limits  utterly  preclude  any  further  notice  of  them. 

We  have  alluded  to  the  leeks  employed  by  the  Welch  above  ; 
but  it  should  be  known  that  leeks  minced  tolerably  fine  were,  du¬ 
ring  our  days  of  youth,  employed  in  the  West  in  almost  all  the 
broth  which  was  taken  in  the  morning  instead  of  tea  ;  such 
broth  was  generally  called  by  the  name  ol  porridge,  from  the  Latin 
name  porrum  for  the  leek  ;  hence  there  was  a  vessel  called  a  porrin¬ 
ger,  a  sort  of  basin  with  handles,  out  of  which  the  porridge  was 
eaten  ;  it  was  sometimes  made  of  pewter  and  sometimes  of  some 
coarse  earthenware.  The  Welch,  we  all  know,  wear  leeks  in 
their  hats  upon  St.  David’s  day  ;  and  Shakespeare  in  Henry  V.  has 
a  humorous  account  of  one  of  his  characters,  Fluellen,  a  Welch¬ 
man,  making  Pistol  eat  a  leek  for  having  ridiculed  him,  telling 
him  that  if  he  could  mock  a  leek  he  could  eat  a  leek.  But  it  is 
not  our  business  to  enter  into  the  history  of  Welch  customs. 
We  will  only  add  that  Columella  calls  Aricia  the  mother  of 
leeks,  “  Mater  Aricia  porri and  that  although  the  leek  as  a  con¬ 
diment  is  pleasant  to  the  robust,  it  is  not  suited  to,  nor  is  it  em¬ 
ployed  by,  many  of  our  city  inhabitants  :  the  smell  is  rank,  and 
it  will  not  agree  with  many  stomachs  ;  it  is  however  rendered  by 
boiling,  when  blanched,  a  palatable  dish.  See  page  224.  It  is  said 
that  Nero,  the  Roman  emperor,  was  called,  on  account  of  his  fond¬ 
ness  for  this  condiment,  Porrophagus,  that  is,  leek-eater. 

We  have,  under  our  account  of  the  Cookery,  of  France,  given 
an  abstract  of  a  catalogue  of  viands  of  various  kinds,  and  of  the 
places  in  which  they  are  to  be  obtained  in  the  greatest  abun¬ 
dance  ;  we  might  give  a  similar  extract  of  our  own  viands,  but  it 
appears  scarcely  necessary  :  we  may,  however,  just  observe  that 
Norfolk  is  famous  for  turkeys ;  Stilton,  Cheddar,  and  Cheshire 
for  cheese ;  Milton  for  oysters ;  the  Thames  and  the  Severn  for 
salmon ;  the  Thames  also  for  white-bait,  smelts,  fyc.;  Devonshire 

d 


INTRODUCTION. 


for  poultry  and  potted  cream ,  and  Dorset  for  butter ;  Oxford  and 
Epping  for  sausages ;  Birmingham  for  tripe;  the  South  Downs 
and  Wales  for  sheep  ;  Lincolnshire  and  Somersetshire  for  fat  oxen  ; 
Wiltshire  and  Gloucestershire  for  bacon;  fyc.  fyc. 

The  farmer  has  brown  bread  as  fresh  as  day. 

And  butter  fragrant  as  the  dew  of  May  ; — 

Cornwall  squab-pie,  and  Devon  white  pot  brings, 

And  Leicester,  beans  and  bacon  fit  for  kings. 

King. 

Of  stimulating  liquors  we  have  also  our  particular  regions. 
London  is  noted  for  its  porter,  and  some  other  malt  liquors  ; 
Maidstone  for  gin;  Scotland  and  Ireland  for  whiskey;  Barton, 
Kennet,  Dorchester,  and  Edinburgh  for  ale ;  Devonshire,  Somer¬ 
setshire,  and  Herefordshire  for  cyder ;  and  Gloucestershire  for 
perry. 

We  must,  however,  here  advert  to  some  other  authors  besides 
King,  who  wrote  on  cookery  during  the  last  century  ;  and  really 
they  are  so  numerous  and  voluminous,  that  one  hardly  knows 
with  which  to  begin.*  The  work  of  Mrs.  Glasse  stands  promi¬ 
nent,  although  Glasse  is  a  nom  de  guerre  ;  it  being  written  by  Sir 
John  Hill,  a  gentleman  who  wrote  on  a  variety  of  subjects,  and 
who  obtained  the  degree  of  M.  D.  from  Scotland,  (at  that  time  no 
difficulty,)  of  whom  Garrick  said  that 

For  physic  and  farces  his  equal  there  scarce  is. 

His  farces  are  physic,  his  physic  a  farce  is. 

One  really  w'onders  that  a  person  who  had  at  least  some  preten¬ 
sions  to  medical  knowledge,  did  not  throw  a  little  of  what  he 
possessed  concerning  diet  into  his  cookery-book;  but  he  appears 
to  have  followed  in  the  path  of  other  writers  in  the  same  line. 
This  character  of  Hill’s  work  will  mostly  apply  to  others 
which  appeared  during  the  last  century,  and  therefore  this  general 
notice  of  them  must  suffice.  They  contained  occasionally  some 
French  dishes,  such  as  an  ambigu,  a  fricassee,  fyc. t 

The  period  of  bad  taste  in  cookery  has,  we  hope,  passed  away, 
and  with  it  that  crowd  of  incongruous  recipes  with  which  for  ages 
our  cookery-books  have  been  all  loaded.  In  this  respect  Dr. 
Kitchener’s  Cook's  Oracle  has  done  considerable  service  to  the 

*  Kitchener  says  that  he  patiently  pioneered  through  more  than  two 
hundred  cookery-books  before  recording  the  results  of  his  own  experi¬ 
ence.  We  confess  that  we  have  done  no  such  thing;  having  found  the 
many  which  we  have  examined,  for  the  most  part  mere  copies  of  one 
another,  with  occasionally  slight  variations. 

t  Dr.  King  seems  to  have  entertained  a  high  opinion  of  French 
dishes  :  he  says, 

“  The  French  our  relish  help,  and  will  supply 
The  want  of  things  too  gross  by  decency. 

Our  fathers  most  admired  their  sauces  sweet. 

And  often  asked  for  sugar  with  their  meat : 

They  butter’d  currants  on  fat  veal  bestow’d. 

And  rumps  of  beef  with  virgin  honey  strew’d.” 


I  INTRODUCTION. 


I 


art;  and  had  he  done  what  of  all  the  writers  on  cookery 
he  was  most  capable  of  doing,  namely,  applied  his  medical 
knowledge  of  diet  to  his  book  so  as  to  render  it  a  manual  of 
dietetics,  our  labours  would  have  been  to  a  certain  extent  su¬ 
perseded.  It  would  be  invidious  to  name  our  other  modern 
works  on  cookery ;  many  of  them  very  useful  in  their  way ; 
we  have  occasionally  named  some  of  them  in  the  body  of  our 
work ;  but  they  all  want  what,  we  hope,  we  have  usefully 
supplied. 

Wemustnow  once  more  advert  to  our  friend  M.  Careme,  whose 
opinion  of  English  cookery  is  perhaps  more  valuable  to  us  than 
any  which  we  may  entertain  amongst  ourselves.  He  was  for  eight 
months  chef  de  cuisine  of  the  Prince  Regent  of  England  ;  and  he 
mentions  with  some  exultation,  that  for  seven  months  of  the  time 
he  never  quitted  his  post ;  and  that  his  Royal  Highness  never  felt 
during  the  w  hole  period  any  attack  of  the  gout ;  while,  before 
M.  Careme’s  arrival  in  that  royal  mansion,  (Brighton,  we  believe,) 
the  cookery  was  so  strong  and  spiced  ( aromatis&e )  that  the  Prince 
wras  frequently  tormented  with  it  both  day  and  night.  The  result 
proved  the  excellence  of  Car£me’s  cookery  ! 

M.  Careme  admits  that  the  fishmongers'  shops  of  London  are 
very  superior  to  those  in  France,  and  is  very  desirous  of  seeing 
such  in  that  country,  full  as  ours  are  with  both  fresh  and  salt¬ 
water  fish.  But  he  says  that  our  pork-shops  are  very  inferior  to 
those  of  France.  He  mentions  that  he  found  in  London  a  small 
kind  of  pig  originally  from  China,  the  flesh  of  which  is  both 
tender  and  very  delicate  ;  and  he  recommends  its  introduction  to 
France  as  a  service  to  be  rendered  d,  Vart  de  la  gastronomie  ! 

The  vegetables  (legumes')  of  London  he  says  are  very  dear,  and 
in  summer  sufficiently  difficult  to  be  obtained.  This  is  really  so 
gross  a  mis-statement  that  it  must  not  be  passed  over.  We  have 
always  thought  that  in  London  vegetables  could  be  obtained  as 
cheap  and,  we  believe,  frequently  cheaper  than  at  any  other  place  in 
England.  It  is  true,  if  you  w'illhave  them  out  of  season,  and  when 
they  are  scarce,  you  must  pay  a  good  price  for  them.  But  the 
cooks  of  kings  are  not  very  likely,  and  we  say  it  with  all  possible 
respect,  to  know  how,  or  to  take  the  best  method  to  obtain  cheap 
viands.  Careme  admits,  however,  that  it  is  very  pleasant  to  have 
all  the  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  &c.  &c.  shelled  and  ready  to  be 
boiled  ;  to  be  sure  it  is  ;  and  if  the  cook  choose  to  be  saved  all 
such  trouble,  he,  she,  or  their  masters  must  pay  for  it !  He  goes 
on  to  say  that  it  is  true  our  stoves  and  hot-houses  furnish,  as  in 
Russia  and  Vienna,  vegetables  throughout  the  year;  but  he  com¬ 
plains  that  they  are  very  dear,  and  that  they  are  not  of  so  good  a 
quality  as  those  of  France,  where  notre  heureux  climat  gives  in 
abundance  the  novelties  according  to  the  four  seasons.  The 
answer  to  this  querulousness  is  very  simple,  namely,  that  if  you 
will  have  fruits  out  of  season,  you  must  pay  for  them  a  good  price 
or  you  cannot  obtain  them.  But  M.  Careme  could  not  find 
( truffes )  truffles  in  England ;  he  went  a  journey  (dans  le  nord )  in 
the  north  to  find  them ;  why  did  he  not  go  westward  ?  He  says, 

d  2 


II 


INTRODUCTION. 


loo,  that  he  did  not  see  an  English  truffle  while  he  remained  in  the 
sen  ice  of  the  Prince  Regent. 

He  says  that  our  fruits  are  not  equal  to  those  of  France,  and 
perhaps  they  are  not ;  but  grapes  may  be  obtained  in  London 
equal  to  those  of  France  ;  and  although  some  of  their  wines  of 
the  south  are  good  and  tolerably  strong,  a  considerable  portion 
are  little  better  than,  if  so  good  as,  our  best  cyder. 

He  says  that  our  butchers-ineat  is  very  good,  but  that  it  has 
not  as  much  ( unctuositS )  unctuousness  as  that  of  France,  and 
consequently  is  not  so  well  adapted  to  sauces  and  consommes. 
And  with  much  complacency  he  asserts  that  the  cattle  of  France 
are  superior  in  nutritive  quality  to  those  of  England  ;  that  London 
has  nothing  to  compare  with  their  elegant  butchers’  shops,  and 
particularly  with  the  abbatoirs  of  Paris. 

He  does,  however,  admit  that  our  mutton,  veal,  lamb,  and  (les 
rostbifs)  beef  are  tender  and  juicy ;  indeed,  generally  more 
tender  than  those  of  France.  This  arises,  he  says,  from  the  ani¬ 
mals  being  killed  younger  than  they  are  in  France  ;  and  also 
from  another  cause,  that  of  employing  (le  charbon  de  terref  \nt- 
coal  for  our  fires,  which  affords  a  heat  more  equal  and  more  pe¬ 
netrating  than  that  of  wood  ;  w'hich  last  burns  out  quickly  when 
once  it  is  kindled,  while  our  coal-fire  continues  half  the  day 
through  with  an  equal  heat.  He  mentions  also  the  convenience 
of  the  smoke-jack  which  turns  without  ceasing.  Assuredly, 
exclaims  he,  that  regularity  is  something  in  obtaining  beautiful 
roast  meat. 

The  essential  articles  of  the  English  kitchen,  continues  he,  are 
beef,  veal,  mutton,  or  lamb  roasted,  or  the  same  boiled  with  salt ; 
as  well  as  fish  and  vegetables  ;  but  turtle-soup,  le  potage  it  la 
tortue,  is  truly  the  national  soup  of  England.  Pastry  of  fruits 
and  pudding  of  all  kind  ;  fowls  and  turkeys  with  cauliflowers, 
salt  beef,  hams,  and  some  mets  and  ragofits  constitute  all  or  nearly 
all  of  English  cookery,  (and  what,  M.  Careme,  can  we  wish 
more  ?)  The  rest,  he  says,  belongs  to  la  cuisine  Frangaise. 

We  might  be  disposed  to  break  a  lance  with  M.  Careme  upon 
the  question  that  turtle-soup  is  the  national  soup  of  England  ;  but 
we  must  forbear  by  merely  observing  that  we  believe  it  is  the  soup 
of  the  gourmand  every  where  when  to  be  obtained  ;  but  it  is  no 
more  the  national  soup  of  England  than  the  thigh  of  the  frog  is 
the  national  dish  of  France.  The  greater  portion  of  our  population 
has  never  even  partaken  of  such  soup ;  how  should  they  ?  it  is 
at  all  times  dear  and  scarce,  except  in  a  few  of  our  maritime 
cities  and  large  towns.* 

*  We  beg  leave  here  to  call  the  reader’s  attention  to  Bristol  in  parti¬ 
cular,  which  was  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  last  century  distin¬ 
guished  by  a  celebrated  inn  called  the  Bush,  and  which,  at  Christmas, 
was  famous  for  its  bill  of  fare,  as  well  indeed  as  at  most  other  times. 
The  landlord’s  name  was  John  Weeks,  a  spirited  citizen,  who  gloried 
in  ministering  to  the  taste  of  his  guests.  We  subjoin  the  most  important 
items  of  his  Bill  of  Fare  for  Christmas,  1800.  A  turtle  of  120  lbs.  •,  72 
pots  of  turtle  ;  a  bustard  ;  red  game  j  black  game  •,  fish  of  almost  innu- 


INTRODUCTION. 


liii 

As  the  turtle  enters  so  largely  into  all  the  feasts  of  the  present 
time,  we  cannot  do  better  than  present  our  readers  with  the  fol¬ 
lowing  account  of  that  animal  principally  extracted  from  our 
Cyclopasdia : — 

Tortoise,  or  Testudo,  a  genus  of  amphibious  reptiles  consisting 
of  thirty-five  species,  scattered  over  various  parts  of  the  globe. 

The  green  turtle  is  so  named,  not  from  the  exterior  colour,  but 
from  the  green  tinge  which  its  fat  frequently  exhibits  when  the 
animal  is  taken  in  the  highest  degree  of  perfection  ;  it  is  one  of 
the  largest  of  the  genus,  often  measuring  above  five  feet  in  length, 
and  weighing  more  than  five  or  six  hundred  pounds.  A  native  of 
the  West  Indies ;  flesh  esteemed  a  dainty.  It  has  been  occasion¬ 
ally  taken  on  the  coast  of  France.  They  lay  their  eggs,  (many 
hundreds,)  which  are  about  the  size  of  tennis-balls,  and  covered 
with  a  smooth  parchment-like  skin,  in  holes  which  they  dig  in 
the  sand  above  high-water  mark,  and  which  are  hatched  by  the 
sun  in  about  three  weeks. 

The  Americans  find  the  catching  turtle  so  advantageous  that 
they  have  rendered  themselves  very  expert  at  it :  they  watch 
them  from  their  nests  on  shore  in  moonlight  nights,  and  before 
they  can  reach  the  sea  turn  them  on  their  backs  and  leave  them 
till  morning,  when  they  are  sure  to  find  them,  as  they  are  utterly 
unable  to  recover  their  former  posture  :  at  other  times  they  hunt 
them  in  boats  with  a  peculiar  kind  of  spear,  striking  them  with 
it  through  the  shell,  and  as  there  is  a  cord  fastened  to  the  spear, 
they  are  taken  much  in  the  same  manner  as  the  whale. 

M.  Careme  has  given  in  his  work,  Le  Maitre  d’ Hotel  Francois , 
Bills  of  Fare  of  the  table  of  the  Prince  Regent  of  .England  for 
several  months ;  and  also  bills  of  fare  of  the  most  fashionable 
cookery  in  France,  as  well  as  in  some  other  countries,  for  almost 
every  day  in  the  year;  bills  of  fare  of  the  dinners  served  up  for 
the  emperor  of  Russia,  the  princes  and  generals  during  his  sojourn 
at  Paris  in  1815,  &c.  &c.  But  we  cannot  more  particularly 
advert  to  these  ;  we  must  content  ourselves  with  one  only  of  those 
as  served  up  at  the  Prince  Regent’s  tables,  Jan.  8th,  1817.  We 
give  it  exactly  as  M.  Careme  has  given  it,  and  also  in  the  same 
language,  just  observing,  by  the  way,  that  it  is  by  no  means  the 
most  splendid  which  embellished  his  Royal  Highness’s  table  : 
the  dishes  were  upon  particular  occasions  much  more  numerous. 

Table  de  S.  A.  R.  Le  Prince  Regent,  Servie  au  pavilion  de 
Brighton,  Angleterre,  8  Janvier,  1817.  Menu  de  32  entries. 

merable  kinds  ;  venison  ;  42  hares ;  87  wild  ducks  ;  pheasants  17  ; 
partridges  41 ;  wild  geese  17  ;  snipes  149  ;  woodcocks  81  ;  wild  turkeys 
17  ;  other  turkeys  44  ;  geese  10  ;  capons  8  ;  pigeons  116  ;  Pyfleet  and 
Colchester  oysters  52  barrels  ;  &c.  &c.  See  Hone’s  Table-Book,  vol.  ii. 
page  44. 

The  Bush  at  Bristol  was,  during  Weeks’s  time,  and  indeed  long  after¬ 
wards,  particularly  celebrated  for  its  turtle ,  although  we  understand  that 
latterly  its  fame  in  this  respect  is  on  the  wane,  the  Montagu,  an  inn  in 
another  part  of  the  city,  having  in  a  measure  usurped  its  place. 


IV 


INTRODUCTION. 


Quatre  potages. 

Le  potage  cle  lievre  au  chasseur, 

Le  potage  de  saut6  au  cousomme  de  volaille, 

Le  potage  aux  laitues, 

Le  macaroni  lie  a  l’ltalienne. 

Quatre  relevis  de  poissons. 

Les  perches  au  vin  de  champagne, 

L’anguille  &  la  regence, 

Le  turbot  grille,  sauce  aux  homards, 

Le  cabillaud  a  la  Hollandaise. 

Quatre  gi-osses  pieces. 

Le  dindon  braise  aux  huitres, 

Le  filet  de  boeuf  pique  glace, 

Les  poulets  a  la  tinanciere, 

Le  quartier  de  sanglier,  gelee  de  grosseilles. 

Quatre  contre-flans. 

Le  pain  de  gibier  sur  un  socle, 

La  poularde  sur  un  socle, 

Le  turban  sur  un  socle, 

La  galantine  sur  un  socle, 

Quatre  plats  rdts . 

Le  chapon  au  cresson, 

Le  lievre  a  l’Anglaise, 

Le  dindonneau  au  cresson, 

Les  pluviers  bardes. 

Huit  entremets. 

Les  pommes  de  terre  frites, 

Les  asperges, 

Les  huitres  au  gratin, 

La  salade  de  volaille,  (singulier  entremets.) 

Les  salsifis  au  beurre, 

Les  epinards  a  la  Fraucaise, 

Les  trulfes  a  la  serviette, 

Les  ecrivisses  au  Madere. 

We  next  present  the  reader  with  a  summary  of  the  Bill  of  Fare 
of  the  banquet  given  by  George  tiie  Fourth  on  the  19th  of  July, 
1822,  in  Westminster  Hall,  on  the  day  of  his  coronation. 

Hot  dishes.  1G0  tureens  of  soup  ;  80  of  turtle ;  40  of  rice  ; 
40  of  vermicelli;  80  dishes  of  turbot;  40  of  trout;  40  of  salmon  ; 
80  dishes  of  venison ;  40  of  roast  beef ;  3  basins  of  beef ;  40 
dishes  of  mutton  and  veal ;  160  dishes  of  vegetables,  including 
potatoes,  peas,  and  cauliflowers  ;  480  sauce-boats  ;  240  lobsters  ; 
120  of  butter  ;  120  of  mint. 

Cold  dishes.  80  of  braised  ham  ;  80  savory  pies  ;  80  of  geese 
a  la  daube,  two  in  each  dish  ;  80  of  savory  cakes ;  80  of  braised 
beef;  80  of  braised  capons,  two  in  each  dish  ;  1190  side  dishes  of 
various  kinds  ;  320  of  mounted  pastry  ;  400  of  jellies  and  creams  ; 


INTRODUCTION.  Iv 

80  of  lobsters;  80  of  crayfish;  161  of  roast  fowls;  80  of  house- 
lamb. 

Total  quantities.  Beef  7442  lbs. ;  veal  7133  lbs. ;  mutton  2474 
lbs. ;  house-lamb  20  quarters  ;  legs  of  ditto  20  ;  lamb  5  saddles  ; 
grass-lamb  55  quarters;  lamb  sweetbreads  160;  cow-heels  389; 
calves-feet  400 ;  suet  250  lbs.  ;  geese  160 ;  pullets  and  capons 
720  ;  chicken  1610  ;  fowls  for  stock  520  ;  bacon  1730  lbs. ;  lard 
550  lbs. ;  butter  912  lbs.  ;  eggs  8400. 

The  wines.  Champagne  100  doz. ;  Burgundy  20  doz. ;  Claret 
more  than  200  doz. ;  Hock  50  doz  ;  Moselle  50  doz. ;  Madeira 
50  doz. ;  Sherry  and  Port  about  350  doz. ;  iced  punch  100  gallons. 
The  Champagne,  Hock,  and  Moselle  were  iced  before  being 
placed  upon  the  table. 

The  expenses  of  this  banquet  and  the  coronation  together 
amounted  to  the  sum  of  £238,238.  As  a  contrast  to  this  it  may  be 
also  mentioned  that  the  banquet  and  coronation  of  his  present 
Majesty  William  the  Fourth,  which  took  place  September. 
1831,  did  not  cost  £50,000. 

As  a  sort  of  set-off  against  the  superior  fruits  of  France,  it  may  be 
mentioned  that,  at  the  coronation  of  George  the  Fourth,  the  glut  of 
fruit  was  unprecedented ;  that  in  regard  to  pine-apples,  a  gen¬ 
tlemen  of  Lambeth  cut  sixty  ripe  fruit  on  the  occasion  ;  and  that 
many  hundreds  remarkable  for  size  and  flavour  came  from  distant 
parts  of  the  country;  one  from  Lord  Cawdor’s  weighed  10  lbs. 
and  formed  part  of  the  royal  banquet.  Pine-apples  are  not  to  be 
obtained  at  Paris  :  when  wanted  at  grand  entertainments,  they  are 
generally  procured  from  Covent-Garden  Market  by  means  of  the 
government  messengers  who  are  constantly  passing  between  the 
two  capitals.  From  our  possessing  coals,  and  our  gardeners  being 
well  versed  in  the  methods  of  raising  fruit  under  glass,  it  is  pro¬ 
bable  that  wre  shall  always  maintain  a  superiority  in  the  produc¬ 
tion  of  this  delicious  article  for  the  dessert.  See  Hone’s  Table- 
Book,  vol.  ii,  page  138. 

We  conclude  our  history  of  cookery  with  this  piece  of  wholesome 
advice  : — 

Then,  be  SIMPLICITY  your  constant  care  ; 

Of  ARTIFICIAL  viands  still  beware. 

The  road  is  plain  that  leads  to  pristine  health  ; 

No  other  way,  howe’er  bestrown  with  wealth. 

Will  to  that  object  safely  you  convey — 

The  labourer’s  road  ; — the  linger-post  obey  ! 


VI 


INTRODUCTION. 


THE  NATURE  OF  WATER.  ITS  IMPORTANCE  IN 
COOKING,  HOW  TO  PURIFY  FOUL,  ETC. 

There  is,  perhaps,  nothing  that  more  readily  affects  the  health 
than  the  nature  of  the  water  employed  in  cooking  our  food,  as  in 
almost  every  process  water  is  not  only  an  agent  but  forms  a  com¬ 
ponent  part  of  the  food  itself.  Pure  water,  therefore,  when  it 
can  be  procured,  is  highly  desirable  for  all  cooking  operations,  and 
we  shall,  when  speaking  further  of  the  properties  of  water,  des¬ 
cribe  the  method  of  detecting  the  various  impurities  contained  in 
it,  though  to  these  niceties  of  chemistry  there  will  be  found  few 
cooks  inclined  to  attend  ;  but  to  one  impurity  more  than  all  others 
we  would  call  their  careful  attention,  and  this  not  only  because  it 
is  of  the  worst  description,  but  because  it  is  that  which  they  are 
most  likely  to  encounter.  Water  left  to  cool  in  any  copper  vessel 
is  sure  to  become  impregnated  by  the  rust  of  the  metal,  and  on 
this  account,  when  copper  saucepans  or  boilers  are  used,  the  article 
boiled  in  them  should  be  emptied  out  immediately  it  is  boiled 
sufficiently,  and  then  no  taint  will  be  received  from  the  copper. 
Servants  are  very  apt  to  be  careless  in  the  use  of  their  saucepans, 
not  considering  that  one  of  the  most  deadly  poisons  is  often  gene¬ 
rated  by  their  want  of  care.  The  presence  of  copper  may  be  de¬ 
tected  by  plunging  a  common  knife  perfectly  free  from  grease 
into  the  water,  or  whatever  liquid  it  may  be  ;  copper,  if  present, 
will  be  formed  on  the  knife,  owing  to  the  greater  affinity  ol  iron  for 
oxygen,  the  iron  having  decomposed  the  salt  of  copper  in  the  water. 

Pure  water  is  transparent,  and  without  either  colour,  taste,  or 
smell.  In  consequence  of  the  facility  of  obtaining  it  pure,  it  is 
assumed  as  a  standard,  to  which  the  relative  weights  of  all  other 
bodies  may  be  compared,  its  specific  gravity  being  called  1000. 

A  pint  of  pure  water,  wine-measure,  weighs,  or  is  assumed 
to  weigh,  sixteen  ounces  avoirdupois. 

Water  is  capable  of  dissolving  a  greater  number  of  natural 
bodies  than  any  other  fluid  whatever,  and  especially  those  known 
by  the  name  of  saline.  It  also  performs  the  most  important  func¬ 
tions  in  the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms,  and  enters  largely 
into  their  compositions  as  a  constituent  part.  It  is  found  through¬ 
out  the  earth  not  only  in  the  uncombined  states  of  ice,  liquidity, 
and  steam,  but  permanently  united  to  a  vast  number  of  bodies, 
both  solid,  fluid,  and  gaseous. 

On  the  common  and  necessary  uses  of  w’ater  we  need  not 
enlarge ;  but  water,  when  freed  from  vegetable  matter  or  other 
substances,  which  are  disposed  to  decomposition,  is,  beyond  a 
doubt,  next  to  atmospheric  air,  the  most  valuable  pabulum  for  the 
support  of  the  human  body,  and  for  preserving  it  in  good  healh, 
it  entering  largely  into  the  composition  of  our  fluids,  and  promo¬ 
ting  the  due  action  of  all  our  functions. 

The  purity  of  water  may  be  known  by  the  following  marks  or 
properties.  Pure  water  is  lighter  and  more  fluid  than  water  that 
is  not  pure ;  it  wets  more  easily  than  the  waters  coutaining  earthy 


THE  NATURE  OF  WATER. 


lvii 

And  metallic  salts,  called  hard  waters,  and  feels  softer  when 
touched  ;  soap,  or  a  solution  of  soap  in  alcohol,  mixes  easily  and 
perfectly  with  it ;  it  is  not  rendered  turbid  by  adding  to  it  a  solu 
tion  of  gold,  in  aqua  regia,  or  a  solution  of  silver,  or  of  lead,  or 
of  mercury,  in  nitric  acid,  or  a  solution  of  acetate  of  lead  in 
water. 

A  variety  of  bodies  are  to  be  found  in  most  spring  water  ;  but 
that  which  is  most  common  is  carbonate  of  lime,  and  which  at¬ 
taches  itself  in  abundance  to  the  sides  of  tea-kettles,  and  is  com¬ 
monly  denominated  fur  or  rock.  It  has  been  supposed  that  when  the 
water  which  is  drunk  contains  an  abundance  of  this  substance,  it 
is  more  likely  to  produce  the  stone  or  gravel,  but  the  most  modern 
inquiries  on  this  subject  do  not  countenance  the  opinion. 

The  purest  water,  and  of  course  that  which  is  the  softest,  is 
unquestionably  the  best,  and  ought  to  be  preferred  in  all  culinary 
operations.  But  soft  water,  with  much  vegetable  or  animal  mat¬ 
ter  in  a  state  of  decomposition,  is  much  less  wholesome  than  hard 
spring  water.  Next  to  pure  rain  water  the  water  of  a  rivulet 
which  is  in  continual  motion  is  perhaps  the  best. 

As  a  constant  beverage  with  our  food,  water  is  to  be  preferred 
to  any  other  liquid  ;  nor  have  any  cases  been  recorded  in  which 
the  daily  use  of  this  fluid  has  been  productive  of  detrimental 
effects. 

In  London  and  its  immediate  vicinity  water  can  generally  be 
procured  in  a  state  sufficiently  pure  for  all  common  purposes,  or  if 
it  comes  to  us  impure  or  turbid  in  rainy  or  after  frosty  weather,  it 
commonly  subsides  and  becomes  quite  clear  when  it  has  remained 
at  least  for  a  few  hours.  But  circumstances  sometimes  arise  that 
render  the  attainment  of  pure  water  difficult  or  even  impossible  ; 
in  that  case  the  following  directions  from  Forsyth’s  Dieteticon  will 
be  found  extremely  serviceable. 

Directions  for  ■purifying  any  given  quantity  of  corrupted  water, 
spring  wafer,  ^-c. — When  it  is  intended  to  purify  any  given  quantity 
of  corrupted  water,  we  should  begin  by  adding  to  it  as  much 
powder  of  charcoal  as  is  necessary  to  deprive  it  entirely  of  its 
bad  smell,  and  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  the  quantity  of  char¬ 
coal  added  be  sufficient,  a  small  portion  of  the  water  may  be  pass¬ 
ed  through  a  linen  bag  two  or  three  inches  long;  if  the  water  thus 
filtered  has  still  a  turbid  appearance,  a  fresh  supply  of  charcoal 
must  be  added  until  it  becomes  perfectly  clear  ;  the  whole  of  the 
water  may  thus  be  passed  through  a  filtering-bag,  the  size  of 
which  should  be  proporiioned  to  the  quantity  of  water.  If  vitrio¬ 
lic  or  any  other  acid  can  be  procured,  a  small  quantity  of  it  should 
be  added  to  the  water  before  the  powdered  charcoal  is  used,  the 
quantity  of  acid  being  regulated  by  the  state  of  putridity  in  which 
the  water  is  found.  The  quantity  of  acid  should  be  sufficient  to 
communicate  to  the  water  a  degree  of  acidity  just  perceptible  to 
the  taste  :  if  the  water  be  merely  intended  for  dressing  vegetables, 
instead  of  acid,  such  a  quantity  of  sea-salt  as  would  be  proper  for 
seasoning  the  above  articles  may  be  employed.  Saline  substances 
like  acids  hasten  the  effect  of  the  charcoal  powder ;  by  making 

d  3 


Vlll 


INTRODUCTION. 


use  of  acids  a  much  less  quantity  of  powdered  charcoal  is  neces¬ 
sary;  and  so  easy  is  the  process  to  any  one  accustomed  to  opera¬ 
tions  of  this  kind,  that  four  or  five  minutes  only  are  required  to 
render  several  gallons  of  putrid  water  fit  to  drink.  In  like  man¬ 
ner  to  improve  the  taste  of  those  spring  waters  which  naturally 
have  an  hepatic  flavour,  and  are  therefore  unpleasant  to  use, 
nothing  more  is  necessary  than  to  filter  them  through  a  bag  half 
filled  with  powdered  charcoal ;  if  such  waters  are  not  very  much 
loaded  with  mucilaginous  particles,  the  addition  of  an  acid  is  not 
necessary  ;  four  or  five  ounces  of  powdered  charcoal  is  sufficient 
to  purify  two  quarts  of  water  when  no  acid  is  made  use  of;  but 
six  drachms  of  powdered  charcoal  have  been  found  sufficient  to 
deprive  three  pints  of  water  of  its  bad  smell,  and  to  render  it  per¬ 
fectly  clear,  provided  at  the  same  time  twenty-four  drops  of  vitrio¬ 
lic  acid  were  added,  but  to  deprive  it  of  its  bad  taste  a  larger 
quantity  of  charcoal  is  requisite.  Charcoal  takes  from  the  water 
a  part  of  the  acid  which  has  been  made  use  of ;  thus,  if  two  drops 
of  sulphuric  acid  (oil  of  vitriol)  are  put  into  four  ounces  of  water, 
the  water  will  become  sensibly  acid,  but  this  acidity  will  imme¬ 
diately  disappear  if  a  small  quantity  of  powdered  charcoal  be 
added  to  the  water. 

Water  may  be  deprived  of  its  putrid  and  pernicious  qualities  by 
boiling,  filtering,  or  most  effectually  by  distillation.  It  has  been 
already  stated,  that  acids  and  charcoal  will  correct  putrid  water  ; 
the  same  result  may  be  produced  by  alum,  half  an  ounce  of  which 
in  powder  will  make  twelve  gallons  of  corrupted  water  pure  and 
transparent  in  two  hours  without  imparting  any  sensible  degree  of 
astringency  to  it ;  by  the  addition  of  a  very  small  quantity  of  quick 
lime  water  may  be  preserved  from  corruption  on  long  voyages. 
Vinegar  or  other  strong  acids  are  also  well  calculated  to  correct 
putrid  water,  and  may  be  either  mixed  with  it  or  drunk  immediate¬ 
ly  after  to  prevent  its  bad  effects. 

When  water  is  hard,  as  spring  water  generally  is,  it  is  very  dif¬ 
ficult  to  preserve  the  colour  of  green  vegetables  and  to  boil  them 
tender  without  boiling  them  so  long  as  to  entirely  change  their 
colour ;  a  few  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda,  say  as  much  as  will 
lay  on  a  sixpence,  will  render  a  gallon  of  water  sufficiently  soft  to 
boil  the  vegetable  quickly  and  preserve  their  greenness,  without 
imparting  any  hurtful  qualities  to  the  vegetables  :  on  the  contrary, 
the  carbonate  of  soda,  by  neutralizing  the  acid  contained  in  the 
vegetables,  prevents  that  disagreeable  consequence  that  sometimes 
results  to  persons  of  weak  stomachs  from  eating  vetetables. 


A  FEW  USEFUL  HINTS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

The  first  and  most  important  point  to  be  attended  to  by  the 
young  housekeeper  is  to  introduce  order  into  her  establishment ; 
to  do  this  with  effect  she  must  ascertain  exactly  what  sum  is  to  be 
expended  in  housekeeping  generally,  then  deduct  some  part  as  a 
fund  for  extraordinary  occasions,  such  as  parties,  festivals,  &c. 
It  will  then  be  advisable  to  appropriate  the  remainder  to  the 


HINTS  TO  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


IX 


various  household  expenditures,  saying,  so  much  is  to  be  appro¬ 
priated  to  butcher’s  meat,  so  much  to  poultry,  so  much  to  fish, — 
then,  fruit,  vegetables,  confectionary,  &c.  &c.  and  if  one  article 
exceeds  another  must  be  curtailed  in  order  to  keep  within  the 
appointed  total.  If  one  week  exceeds  the  usual  total,  the  expen¬ 
diture  of  the  next  ought  to  be  reduced  to  keep  within  the  assigned 
limits.  The  mistress  should  visit  her  kitchen  early  each  day,  give 
her  orders  distinctly,  and  give  out  of  her  store-room  or  closet  all 
the  articles  the  cook  may  be  in  want  of,  such  as  sugar,  tea,  spices, 
soap,  candles,  &c. :  this  will  prevent  waste  or  embezzlement.  Let 
everything  be  ordered  and  given  out  in  time  that  no  hurry  or  con¬ 
fusion  may  occur  at  the  last.  It  is  better  that  the  mistress  order 
the  articles  from  tradespeople  herself,  but  whether  she  does  or 
not,  a  bill  should  be  required  stating  weight  and  price ;  this  enables 
the  cook  to  re-weigh  or  measure  articles  sent  in,  and  prevents 
mistakes  or  frauds.  These  bills  should  be  discharged  every  week 
while  the  things  are  fresh  in  the  memory.  Articles  are  purchased 
at  a  cheaper  rate  and  of  better  quality  when  tradesmen  are  not 
required  to  give  long  credit. 

Regular  accounts  should  be  kept  of  all  expenditure,  that  it  may 
be  readily  ascertained  if  any  excessive  consumption  takes  place, 
which  will  detect  any  fraud  or  waste  should  they  be  attempted. 

Articles  that  do  not  soon  decay  should  be  purchased  in  large 
quantities  ;  soap,  candles,  and  many  other  articles  improve  by 
keeping.  Tea,  sugar,  starch,  &c.  may  be  purchased  cheapest  in 
larger  quantities,  but  seeds  generally  deteriorate,  so  that  rice, 
oatmeal,  &c.  should  be  purchased  more  frequently,  and  any  that 
is  kept  should  be  put  in  an  earthen  jar  and  well  secured  from  the 
air,  as  rice  particularly  is  liable  to  be  attacked  by  an  insect  which 
spoils  it,  and  oatmeal  soon  turns  sour  unless  carefully  kept  from 
air  and  damp. 

When  bread  is  baked  at  home,  which  however  is  not  commonly 
done  in  London,  flour  should  be  purchased  from  the  mill  by  the 
sack,  and  the  sack  must  be  placed  on  a  stand  like  a  barrel,  so  as 
not  to  touch  the  ground  ;  it  must  also  be  put  in  a  dry  place. 

Where  a  professed  cook  or  housekeeper  is  not  kept,  it  is  cheaper 
to  purchase  delicate  articles  of  confectionary  than  to  make  them, 
but  common  preserves,  such  as  currants,  raspberries,  gooseberries, 
&c.  are  more  cheaply  made  at  home,  and  for  these  articles  refined 
sugar  is  cheaper  and  better  than  raw  or  soft,  as.it  goes  farther  and 
does  not  ferment. 

In  preparing  dishes  for  the  table,  tastes  and  palates  vary  so  much 
that  it  will  be  well  to  keep  a  book  and  copy  into  it  those  recipes 
which  have  been  tried  and  approved  into  the  same  book  :  various 
approved  methods  of  performing  different  operations  of  cookery, 
&c.  which  will  be  communicated  to  you  from  time  to  time  should 
also  be  entered.  A  person  who  thus  appropriates  all  the  useful 
information  she  obtains  -will  never  be  at  a  loss,  and  will  be  able  to 
perform  the  same  operation  twice  equally  well,  which  the  forget¬ 
ting  some  trifling  particular  frequently  prevents. 


ix 


INTRODUCTION. 


A  CHAPTER  FOR  SERVANTS. 

So  many  valuable  books  have  been  published  containing  direc¬ 
tions  to  domestics  of  the  present  day,  that  we  shall  not  be  obliged 
to  go  into  a  long  detail  of  domestic  duties.  A  most  useful  little 
•work  entitled  “  The  Female  Servant’s  Adviser,”  abounds  in 
maxims  of  prudence,  and  gives  detailed  directions  for  arranging 
the  breakfast,  dinner,  tea,  and  supper  tables,  with  hints  for  the 
preservation  and  management  of  meat,  fish,  poultry,  game,  vege¬ 
tables,  &c.  besides  the  best  methods  of  cleaning  furniture,  looking- 
glasses,  gilt  frames,  articles  of  steel  and  brass,  decanters,  glasses, 
plate,  lamps,  and,  indeed,  all  the  routine  of  the  cook  or  house¬ 
maid’s  business.  For  the  laundress  <here  are  rules  for  washing 
laces,  muslins,  linens,  flannels,  & c.  with  judicious  advice  as  to 
the  removal  of  stains  of  every  kind  ;  and  the  work  is  rendered 
still  more  valuable  from  its  comprising  a  brief  statement  of  the 
law  as  it  regards  servant  and  master;  and  the  whole  is  so  well  con¬ 
densed  and  compactly  arranged  that  it  may  be  carried  in  the  pocket 
(w'hich  we  hope,  by-the-bye,  our  readers  wear),  and  may  be  pro¬ 
cured  at  a  very  small  charge.  This  little  book  has  been  justly- 
characterized  by  the  editor  of  the  Home  Missionary  Magazine  as 
“  the  most  useful  and  best  intentioned  book  in  print.” — “  Here  is 
a  little  book,”  says  another  journalist,  (the  editor  of  the  Taunton 
Courier,)  “  that  ought  to  be  placed  in  the  hands  of  all  servants, 
as  it  not  only  inculcates  in  the  most  emphat.ical  manner  the  sacred 
Obligations  of  faithfulness,  industry,  and  duty,  and  suggests  to 
servants  a  variety  of  hints  and  instructions  for  occasioning  large 
savings  in  the  use  and  employment  of  their  masters  and  mistresses’ 
property  and  provisions,  but  it  contains  a  synopsis  of  their  duties, 
and  a  detail  of  th6  best  and  most  approved  methods  of  performing 
the  various  occupations  of  household  service,  so  familiarly  ex¬ 
plained  and  so  usefully  deduced  from  the  best  results  of  an  expe¬ 
rienced  housekeeper’s  life,  that,  even  good  servants  may  become 
all  the  better  for  its  information,  and  indifferent  ones  will  certain¬ 
ly  be  improved  by  it  in  their  respective  callings,  if  proper  instruc¬ 
tion  in  every  possible  variety  of  domestic  duty,  combined  with 
sound  moral  precept  and  religious  exhortation,  can  be  effective  of 
that  object.  It  forms  an  admirable  gift  by  masters  and  mistresses 
to  their  female  servants.”  Those  who  will  go  to  a  higher  price 
and  wish  to  see  more  minute  details  may  read  Mrs.  Park’s  Domes¬ 
tic  Duties.  But  while  we  merely  point  to  sources  where  every 
minute  department  of  a  servant’s  duty  may  be  learned,  we  cannot 
conclude  our  work  without  presenting  them  with  some  general 
maxims  and  monitory  cautions  that  may  be  easily  remembered,  will 
always  be  useful,  and  which  might  repay  masters  or  mistresses 
the  trouble  were  they  to  copy  them  out  on  a  slip  of  paper,  and 


SERVANTS.  3xt 

deliver  to  each  servant  a  copy  on  their  being  hired.  These  we 
have  entitled 

Maxims  and  Monitory  Cautions  for  Servants. 

1.  Zealously  endeavour  to  maintain  a  good  character  by  doing 
your  duty  in  that  station  of  life  to  which  it  has  pleased  God  to 
call  you. 

2.  Live  under  the  influence  of  religious  principles  and  with  a 
constant  dependence  on  God’s  providence.  Give  to  God  the  first 
and  last  of  each  day’s  thoughts,  for  religion  is  the  foundation  of 
peace  and  happiness  both  here  and  hereafter. 

3.  A  good  servant  makes  a  good  master ;  a  servant  is  valued 
who  makes  himself  valuable. 

4.  Be  obedient  to  all  lawful  orders— a  good  servant  disputeth 
not  his  master’s  command,  butdoeth  it. 

5.  Betray  no  trust — divulge  no  secret — practise  economy — love 
fidelity.  He  that  winks  at  an  injury  that  he  might  prevent,  shares 
in  it. 

6.  Be  honest. — Honesty  is  the  best  policy,  and  no  one  will  long 

remain  in  decent  service  who  is  not  so  to  a  certain  extent,  but  the 
word  conveys  more  meaning  than  is  commonly  attached  to  it ; 
many  are  dishonest  who  do  not  steal  ;  a  good  conscience  is  the 
best  law  ;  never  suffer  yourself,  under  the  name  of  privileges  and 
perquisites,  to  be  induced  to  take  or  to  appropriate  to  your  own 
use  any  of  your  employer’s  property  under  the  plausible  subter¬ 
fuges  made  use  of  by  some  dishonest  servants,  such  as — Where 
is  the  great  harm  ?”  “  It  is  only  this,  or  only  that.'’  “  My  master 

can  afford  it.”  “  Where  is  the  great  harm,  it  is  only  a  bit  of  soap 
— only  a  few  ends  of  candles — only  an  odd  bit  of  lace— only  a  cutting 
of  silk — only  a  bit  of  dry  bread — taking  a  little  tea  and  sugar  is  not 
stealing,”  and  the  like  wretched  and  deceitful  excuses  of  faithless 
and  dishonest  servants. 

7.  Be  always  employed ;  idleness  is  the  parent  of  vice.  The 
proverb  saith,  “  An  idle  brain  is  the  Devil’s  workshop.”  Constant 
occupation  prevents  temptation. 

8.  Always  tell  the  truth  ;  a  fault  is  made  worse  by  endeavour¬ 
ing  to  conceal  it.  Do  nothing  that  you  wish  to  conceal. 

9.  Be  orderly.  Order  is  heaven’s  first  law,  and  it  is  the  ser¬ 
vant’s  best  friend;  by  its  help  half  the  fatigues  of  the  day  are 
avoided  and  double  the  work  may  be  done. 

,  !  10.  Rise  early  ;  this  forwards  work  and  gains  time  all  day  after¬ 

wards.  It  has  been  wittily  said,  that  “  One  who  lies  an  hour 
too  long  in  bed  in  the  morning  runs  after  that  hour  all  day  and 
s  !  never  overtakes  it.” 

11.  Be  diligent ;  steady  going  on  is  better  than  hurry  and  belter 
skelter;  the  tortoise  outstripped  the  hare  ;  and  so  will  the  diligent 
servant  excel  her  who  loiters  and  bustles  by  turns ;  haste  and 
hurry  are  as  different  as  sunshine  and  lightning  ;  the  one  matures, 

H  the  other  surprises  but  destroys. 

12.  Bear  and  forbear.  In  service  there  is  always  something 
“  to  put  up  with,”  as  servants  commonly  express  it,  and  this  not 


INTRODUCTION. 


lxii 

so  much  from  their  employers  as  from  their  fellow  domestics. 
Here  tempers  most  commonly  clash,  but  recollect  that  it  is  only 
by  exerting  a  little  timely  forbearance  that  you  can  hope  to  live  at 
peace  among  yourselves  ;  when  the  captious  and  perverse  find  that 
you  go  on  your  way  without  regarding  them  they  will  cease  to 
assail  you. 

13.  Re  patient  with  children  ;  they  demand  all  your  forbearance 
and  affection  ;  do  not  teach  them  oppression  by  using  harshly  the 
little  authority  you  may  have  over  them.  Teach  them  kind¬ 
ness  by  exercising  it  towards  all,  even  the  animals  beneath  you. 
The  law  of  kindliness  is  the  strongest  law  you  can  exercise  over 
rational  beings  or  even  over  the  dumb  brute,  and  it  will  ensure 
you  a  kind  return.  Many  an  unskilful  servant  has  been  long  re¬ 
tained  merely  because  kind  and  civil,  and  civility  is  what  you  are 
bound  to  give  to  all  in  authority  over  you ;  it  is  what  they  stipulate 
for  and  are  justly  entitled  to  from  you.  You  canuot  be  honest  if 
you  are  not  civil,  for  you  are  paid  to  be  so, 

14.  Be  a  miser  of  your  time,  take  care  of  minutes,  and  the 
hours  and  days  will  take  care  of  themselves  ;  your  time  is  your 
employer’s,  at  least  as  much  of  it  as  is  requisite  to  get  through 
the  proper  business  of  each  day,  and  you  have  no  more  right  to 
waste  your  master’s  time  than  any  other  part  of  his  property. 

15.  ,l  Waste  not,  want  not.”  How  many  servants  in  the  kitchens 
of  their  masters  have  wickedly  and  wantonly  wasted  that  food 
which,  in  an  after  period,  they  have  wanted  for  themselves  or 
children  :  consider  if  you  were  master  or  mistress  how  you  would 
wish  and  expect  your  servants  to  behave,  and  you  will  soon  see 
the  proper  way  you  should  act  in,  and  be  as  careful  of  your 
master’s  property  as  of  your  own ;  to  waste  is  as  dishonest  as  to 
steal,  the  loss  to  the  owner  is  the  same. 

1G.  Be  cleanly ;  indeed,  cleanliness  is  next  door  to  godliness. 
If  you  do  not  respect  yourself  enough  to  keep  your  person  clean 
and  neat,  what  can  you  be  expected  to  respect? — not  appearances 
certainly,  and  they  who  are  careless  as  to  that,  are  often  so  as  to 
more  important  matters.  Neatness  and  modesty  throw  a  charm 
around  you  that  will  guard  you  from  harm,  and  by  saving  much 
expense  that  gaudy  and  careless  dressing  incurs,  will  enable  you, 
as  the  concluding  maxim,  to 

17.  Lay  up  some  part  of  your  wages  against  a  day  of  sickness 
or  of  old  age,  the  Savings’  Bank  will  receive  the  smallest,  and 
it  is  amazing  how  quickly  small  sums  augment;  for  while  you 
perform  your  duty  faithfully  to  your  employers,  it  is  as  much 
your  duty  to  yourself  to  remember  that  youth  cannot  last  for 
ever,  and  that  health  may  be  equally  evanescent ;  old  age,  at 
least,  will  inevitably  come ;  and  if  you  have  not  laid  up  some¬ 
thing  to  make  your  last  days  comfortable,  the  close  of  your  life 
will  most  probably  be  days  of  many  sorrows,  of  deep  regret,  and 
self-reproach  ;  you  will  then  say,  that — 

If  youth  did  know  what  age  would  crave. 

Many  a  penny  youth  w'ould  save. 


THE  KITCHEN. 


lxiii 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  ITS  UTENSILS. 

A  modern  kitchen  abounds  with  contrivances  and  appurtenances 
to  save  trouble  and  ensure  certain  satisfactory  results.  Steam, 
that  most  powerful  of  all  the  agents  in  nature,  now  largely  con¬ 
tributes  to  the  operations  of  cookery,  but  unfortunately  it  is  not 
yet  so  generally  employed  as  it  might  advantageously  be.  It  is 
seldom  much  called  into  action,  except  in  very  large  establish¬ 
ments.  In  Greenwich  hospital  one  steam  apparatus  is  so  con¬ 
structed  as  to  cook  for  the  whole  establishment. 

Cooking  utensils,  like  every  thing  else,  have  come  in  for 
their  share  of  modern  improvement,  and  we  shall,  in  speaking  of 
cooking  apparatuses  generally,  note  what  these  improvements  have 
been. 

Perhaps  the  most  useful  cooking  apparatuses  are  those  consisting 
of  boilers,  ovens,  hot  closets,  &c.  In  these  the  fire-place  is  situ¬ 
ated  about  the  middle  of  the  erection,  and  from  it  emanate  flues 
in  different  directions  which  cai-ry  the  smoke  and  heated  vapour 
arising  from  the  fuel,  and  bring  it  in  contact  with  external  sur¬ 
faces  of  the  several  vessels  and  chambers,  for  the  purpose  of 
heating  them. 

The.best  are  those  in  which  the  iron  plate  is  not  too  thick,  and 
which  is  in  several  pieces  joined  together  by  rebate-edges  by 
which  contrivance  the  expansions  and  contractions  caused  by 
heat  and  cold  are  not  so  liable  to  crack  the  metal,  as  is  fre¬ 
quently  the  case  when  the  hot  plate  is  made  in  one  piece. 

Hot  Plates  wrere  formerly  made  very  thick,  and  consequently, 
from  the  expansion,  when  heating,  were  often  broken  across 
even  the  first  time  of  using  :  an  improvement  has  been  recently 
made  by  having  a  series  of  plates  cast  very  thin  and  fitting  in 
rebates  within  a  large  frame  ;  the  advantages  of  this  method  are 
great.  The  plates  are  readily  heated  with  very  little  fuel,  added 
to  which  an  oven  may  and  is  often  applied  at  one  end,  which  is 
made  ready  for  baking  bread,  &c.  by  the  superfluous  heat  that 
would  otherwise  be  wasted. 

A  Broiling  and  Stewing  Plate  has  been  invented,  which  is  one  of 
the  most  useful  articles  that  can  be  put  up  in  a  kitchen,  very 
economical  both  in  its  cost  and  use ;  it  is  suitable  for  boiling, 
stewing,  frying,  and  for  broiling  ;  the  conduction  is  simple,  the 
fuel  is  supplied  at  the  top,  the  draught  is  easily  regulated,  it  can 
be  fixed  in  any  situation,  and  forms  an  excellent  laundry  stove 
when  required  for  that  purpose. 

Bain  Marie  Pans,  or  water-bath  for  keeping  gravies,  soups  &c. 
at  a  boiling  heat,  are  very  useful.  These  are  used  by  having 
boiling  water  put  in  the  lower  part,  and  then  placed  upon  a  hot 
plate  to  keep  that  water  boiling ;  the  gravies  are  in  separate  pans 
or  vessels  above  the  water. 

Ranges  are  now  generally  made  with  boilers  at  the  back  and  side, 
for  supplying  hot  water,  which  boilers  should  always  be  made  of 
hammered  iron  ;  they  are  then  not  liable  to  iqjury  from  neglect. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixiv 

They  can  also  he  used  as  steam-boilers,  for  the  purpose  of  boiling 
fish,  pudding,  meat,  and  vegetables  by  steam.  Steam  is  also 
used  for  warming  hot  closets,  kettles,  washing,  &c.  &c. 

Ovens  are  of  various  sorts  ;  the  most  usual  are  those  attached 
to  the  range,  and  generally  heated  from  the  same  fire,  either  with 
or  without  flues  ;  but  the  best  and  most  efficient  are  detached  and 
fixed  with  a  small  furnace  door,  to  heat  by  a  separate  fire,  which 
can  at  any  time  be  done  with  a  few  cinders  and  coals,  in  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  having  a  regulating  door  underneath  to 
control  the  draught. 

A  Portable  Oven,  called  the  cottage  oven,  may  be  used  over  a 
small  fire  ;  these  are  very  portable  but  are  not  much  used. 

Jacks  for  Roasting  are  of  various  kinds  ;  the  common  sort  is 
called  the  bottle  jack  from  its  shape,  and  roasts  vertically ;  it  will 
answer  for  a  single  joint  of  any  moderate  weight,  say  as  much  as 
28  lb. 

Smoke-Jacks  are  constructed  to  carry  two  or  more  spits  as  far 
as  twelve,  and  will  carry  any  weight  or  number  of  joints  that 
may  be  required,  of  course  made  to  the  particular  situation  for 
which  they  are  wanted  ;  but  those  most  usually  fixed  carry  three 
spits,  having  also  a  vertical  motion  in  addition  to  the  spits,  for 
the  purpose  of  roasting  small  birds,  game,  &c.  &c. 

The  Wind-up  Jacks  formerly  used  are  now  superseded  by  the 
smoke-jack,  which  has  more  power  than  the  wind-up  jack,  and 
much  superior,  as  the  use  of  weights  is  entirely  done  away  with,  and 
smoke-jacks  can  now  be  made  and  are  made  that  will  answer  in 
any  chimney,  however  small.  These  are  called  the  self-power 
smoke-jacks,  occupying  but  little  space,  and  requiring  no  particular 
care  or  trouble. 

Roasting  Apparatus.  There  is  now  a  very  convenient  and  cheap 
apparatus  for  roasting,  combining  a  screen  or  reflector,  with  a 
dripping-pan,  hot-closet  underneath  for  plates  and  dishes,  having 
a  spring  jack  which  roasts  horizontally,  with  a  spit  in  the  same 
manner  as  a  smoke-jack  would  do,  is  very  portable,  requires  no 
fixing  or  any  preparation,  and  can  be  used  in  any  room  having  a 
fire  place. 

Meat  Screens.  Their  only  improvement  consists  in  their  being 
made  deeper  than  formerly,  and  having  the  addition  of  a  hot- 
closet  enclosed  at  the  top,  for  keeping  hot-joints  ready  for 
serving,  and  this  closet  has  a  lock  and  key  attached  to  it. 

Spits  are  of  various  kinds,  the  usual  sort  having  awheel  at  one 
end  to  receive  the  chain  of  the  jack,  and  pointed  at  the  other,  J 
the  sizes  adapted  to  the  joints  and  range. 

Cradle  Spits  are  constructed  to  receive  the  joint  of  meat  without 
being  run  through,  as  is  necessary  in  using  the  common  spit 
and  an  improved  sort  has  lately  been  constructed,  by  which  any 
joint  placed  within  the  cradle  will  revolve  round  in  a  circle,  and 
every  part  of  the  joint  be  equally  exposed  to  the  action  of  the 
fire.  The  motion  during  the  process  is  changed,  so  as  to  bring 
r.he  ends  as  well  as  the  sides  to  the  front  of  the  fire.  This  is  called! 
the  double  revolving  cradle-spit. 


THE  KITCHEN. 


Ixv 

The  Potatoe  Pasty-pan  is  an  economical  article,  affording  the 
advantages  of  flour  pastry  without  the  expense.  When  used, 
season  your  meat  and  place  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  adding  a 
piece  of  butter  and  a  little  water;  then  put  the  perforated  plate  in 
its  place  with  its  valve-pipe  screwed  on  ;  mashed  potatoes  with  a 
little  milk  are  to  be  laid  on  this,  filling  up  the  whole  space  to  the 
top  of  the  tube,  and  finishing  the  surface  in  any  ornamental  man¬ 
ner  you  choose.  The  knob  being  now  placed  at  the  end  of  the 
tube,  it  may  be  sent  to  the  oven.  If  carefully  baked,  the 
potatoes  will  be  covered  with  a  delicate  brown  crust,  retaining  all 
the  savoury  steam  rising  from  the  meat. 

Double  saucepans  are  made  of  various  kinds  for  glaze  gravies, 
milk,  rice,  or  any  other  articles  which  are  liable  to  injury  from 
burning,  which  these  double  saucepans  entirely  prevent. 

The  Digester  is  a  very  useful  contrivance  of  modern  date,  and 
by  its  aid  a  capital  soup  is  very  cheaply  produced  from  bones,  &c. 
which  in  large  families  of  charitable  habits  is  most  commonly  dis¬ 
tributed  to  the  poor.  It  produces  a  much  larger  quantity  of  nour¬ 
ishing  food  than  can  be  obtained  by  any  other  method. 

Care  must  be  taken,  in  filling  the  Digester,  to  leave  room  enough 
for  the  steam  to  pass  off  through  the  valve  at  the  top  of  the  cover. 
This  may  be  done  by  filling  the  Digester  only  three  parts  full  of 
water  and  bruised  bones  or  meat,  which  it  is  to  be  noticed  are  all 
put  in  together.  It  must  then  be  placed  near  a  slow  fire,  so  as 
only  to  simmer — more  heat  injures  the  quality  ;  and  this  it  must  do 
for  the  space  of  eight  or  ten  hours.  After  this  has  been  done,  the 
soup  is  to  be  strained  through  a  hair-sieve  or  cullender,  in  order 
to  separate  any  bits  of  bones.  The  soup  is  then  to  be  put  into  the 
digester  again,  and  after  whatever  vegetables,  spices,  &c.  are 
thought  necessary,  are  added,  the  whole  is  to  be  well  boiled  to¬ 
gether  for  an  hour  or  two,  and  it  will  then  be  fit  for  immediate 
use. 

In  putting  on  the  lid  of  the  digester,  take  care  that  a  mark  thus, 
X,  on  the  lid,  is  opposite  to  a  similar  mark,  X,  on  the  digester. 

Steam  for  Broth,  Milk ,  <Sfc.  In  large  schools,  &c.  steam  is  some¬ 
times  advantageously  employed  for  boiling  milk  and  soups.  The 
steam  is  generally  supplied  from  the  boiler  of  the  kitchen  range, 
and  is  conveyed  round  a  vessel  in  which  the  soup  or  milk  is 
placed. 

Among  many  other  improvements  in  the  apparatus  employed  in 
cooking,  a  very  singular  and- important  one  has  been  suggested  in 
the  form  of  an  apparatus  for  cooking  by  gas-flame.  This  is  es¬ 
teemed  admirably  applicable  to  cooking  wild  fowl  and  similar  ex¬ 
quisite  morseaux  of  gourmanderie,  but  it  is  constructed  for  the 
purposes  of  cooking  generally.  Speaking  on  this  subject,  Mr. 
Louden  conjectures  that  the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  cooking 
by  gas  will  become  common  in  all  towns  where  gas-lighting  is 
employed.  And  when  gas  is  publicly  made  from  the  decomposi¬ 
tion  of  wrater,  which  time  is  probably  not  far  distant,  it  will  afford 
a  cheap  heat  for  that  and  many  other  purposes. 

Though  the  first  projectors  of  gas  had  a  view  to  its  application 


INTRODUCTION. 


1 X  V  i 

to  various  purposes,  as  the  old  name  of  “  gas  light  and  heat  Com¬ 
pany”  fully  explains,  no  attempts  were  made  to  apply  it  to  any 
other  use  than  that  of  distributing  a  strong  and  brilliant  light, 
and  notwithstanding  the  acknowledged  expensive  and  inefficient 
means  of  distributing  heat,  our  kitchens  have  yet  to  wait  the  slow 
progress  of  improvement  before  all  the  advantages  in  our  hands 
are  brought  into  use.  Mr.  John  Barlow,  a  civil  engineer  of  the 
United  States,  has  communicated  to  this  country  an  account  of  the 
progress  that  is  making  across  the  Atlantic  in  the  use  of  gas, 
both  for  the  diffusion  of  heat  and  for  domestic  cookery.  He  says 
the  Americans  “  already  roast,  bake,  and  boil  by  gas.”  The  heat 
is  always  ready  when  wanted  and  is  extinguished  when  it  is  no 
longer  required,  no  dust,  no  preparation,  nor  any  cleaning  up 
afterwards  is  requisite  ;  the  cook  can  leave  a  joint  of  meat  either 
roasting  or  boiling,  and  never  look  at  it  again  till  the  clock  informs 
her  it  is  time  to  take  it  up.”  He  speaks  of  a  family  who  regularly 
put  their  meat  down  and  all  go  to  church  on  a  Sunday,  locking  the 
house  up  and  leaving  a  capital  dinner  to  the  care  of  the  gas.— 
The  engineers  of  our  own  country  are  not  far  behind  :  Mr.  Mallet 
of  Dublin,  and  Mr.  Hicks  of  London,  the  inventors  of  the  appara¬ 
tus  already  mentioned,  have  both  furnished  many  valuable  sugges¬ 
tions,  which  have  already  been  carried  into  execution  with  com¬ 
plete  success  as  far  as  they  go,  which  yet,  however,  we  fear,  extend 
no  farther  than  boiling  or  broiling. 

The  New  Monthly  Magazine  for  June  1835  gives  publicity  to  a 
plan  of  Mr.  Rickets  for  cooking  and  heating  by  gas,  of  a  very 
simple  and  promising  description.  This  gas  stove  is  a  construction 
similar  to  a  common  German  stove  ;  it  has  a  large  radiating  surface, 
so  as  extensively  to  diffuse  the  heat  which  is  generated  within. 
The  gas  is  consumed  in  an  inferior  chamber,  into  which  it  is  intro¬ 
duced  by  a  circular  pipe  from  the  main,  with  a  series  of  jets,  so 
as  to  produce  an  almost  continuous  sheet  of  flame.  The  applica¬ 
tion  of  heat  from  burning  gas  to  culinary  purposes  is  already  call¬ 
ing  forth  great  attention  to  the  subject.  Mr.  Rickets’  Gas 
Culinary  Stove  is  so  formed  as  to  roast,  bake,  boil,  stew,  &c  , 
and  in  all  cases  the  uniformity  of  the  heat  is  so  easily  regulated  as 
to  produce  results  undeniably  superior  to  all  other  culinary  ar¬ 
rangements,  both  in  point  of  economy  of  time,  cleanliness,  and 
trouble,  while  the  results  are  at  once  certain  and  satisfactory. 

Utensils.  A  professed  cook  requires  in  her  kitchen  all  the  fol¬ 
lowing  implements  and  tools  for  producing  that  desirable  result 
of  her  labours,  a  good  dinner. 

A  range,  smoke-jack,  dripping-pan,  and  basting  ladle,  grid¬ 
irons,  steak-tongues,  charcoal  stoves,  hot  plate,  oven,  boiler  for 
steam,  steam-kettles,  hot  closet,  boiler  for  hot  water  heated  by 
steam,  stock-pots,  stew-pans,  preserving  pans,  pickling  pans, 
braising  pans,  frying-pans  of  different  sizes,  one  large  for  fish, 
cutlet  and  omelet  pans,  pan  and  spoons  for  poached  eggs,  turtle 
pans,  turbot  keetles,  oven  peels,  1  cradle,  spit,  others  of  meat, 
birds,  &c.,  various  sized  iron  skewers,  set  of  kitchen  knives, 
beef  fork,  choppers,  meat  and  cutlet  chopper,  screen,  dish 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  MARKETING. 


lxvii 


covers,  graters,  spice-box,  seasoning  box,  flour,  pepper  and 
cayenne  dredgers,  ragout  spoons,  ladles,  jelly  and  pudding  moulds, 
pepper  and  spice  mills,  pestle  and  mortars  of  marble,  larding 
needles,  tin  drains  for  fried  fish,  cullenders,  patty-pans,  cutters 
for  pastry,  vegetables,  string  boxes,  sugar  canisters,  cookholds, 
balance  meat  hooks,  brass  and  copper  spoon  for  pickling  and 
preserving,  tin  Yorkshire-pudding  dishes  of  different  sizes,  baking 
plates,  cake  tins,  fish-slices,  fish-drains  to  fit  the  steamers-meat- 
stands,  salamander  and  pig  irons,  steel  egg-poachers  and  egg- 
boilers,  fritter  irons,  lamps,  and  to  these  must  be  superadded  an 
ink-stand  for  memorandums. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  MARKETING. 


BUTCHERS’  MEAT. 


BEEF. 


Hind  quarter. 

1  Sirloin. 

2  Rump. 

3  Edge  or  Aitch  bone. 

4  Buttock. 

5  Mouse  buttock. 

6  Veiny  piece. 

7  Thick  flank. 

8  Thin  flank. 

9  Leg. 


Kit/ 


Fore  quarter. 

11  Middle  ribs  :  four  ribs. 

12  Chuck  ;  three  ribs. 

13  Shanter,  or  leg  of  mutton  piece. 

14  Brisket. 

15  Clod. 

16  Neck,  or  stickinq  piece. 

17  Shin. 

18  Cheek. 


10  Fore  ribs  ;  free  ribs. 

j  The  pieces  in  a  Bullock  are  the  following: — The  head  (18)  con¬ 
sists  of  the  tongue,  palate,  cheeks,  &c.  The  entrails  are  the 


INTRO  DUCTION. 


Ixviii 

sweetbread,  kidneys,  skirts,  tripe,  and  the  heart.  The  fore  quarter 
contains  the  haunch  (15),  which  includes  the  clod,  marrow-bone, 
shin  (17,  9),  and  the  sticking  piece,  that  is,  the  neck  end  (16)  ;  the 
leg  of  mutton  piece  (13),  which  has  a  part  of  the  blade-bone,  the 
chuck  (12),  the  brisket  (14),  the  fore-ribs  (11),  and  middle  rib 
(10),  called  also  the  chuck-rib.  The  hind-quarter  contains  the  sir¬ 
loin  (land  2),  the  thin  and  thick  flank  (8),  the  veiny  piece  (6), 
edge-bone,  or  chuck-bone  (6),  the  buttock  (4),  and  leg  (5).  A 
baron  consists  of  the  two  sirloins. 

To  choose  Beef.  Ox-beef  has  an  open  grain,  and  the  fat,  if  young, 
will  be  of  an  oily  smoothness,  except  the  brisket,  neck  pieces,  and 
a  few  others,  which  are  fibrous.  The  lean  should  be  of  a  carnation 
red  ;  the  fat  rather  inclining  to  white  than  yellow  ;  the  suet  of  a 
fine  white. 

Cow-beef  has  a  closer  grain,  the  fat  is  whiter,  the  bones  less, 
and  the  lean  of  a  paler  colour  than  ox-beef.  If  young  and  tender, 
a  dent  made  with  the  finger  by  pressing  it  will  in  a  little  time  rise 
again.  The  quality  of  cow-beef  may  also  be  generally  determined 
by  the  appearance  of  the  udder.  If  this  be  flabby,  large,  and 
coarse,  the  cow  is  old  and  the  beef  most  probably  indifferent ;  if 
the  udder  be  small  and  has  rather  the  appearance  of  fat  without 
flabbiness,  the  cow  is  young  and  the  beef  most  probably  good. 

Bull-beef  is  of  a  more  dusky  red,  has  a  closer  grain,  and  is  firmer 
than  of  either  the  preceding  ;  it  also  receives  the  indentation  of  the 
finger  with  more  difficulty,  and  rises  afterwards  sooner.  The  fat  is 
gross  and  fibrous,  and  has  a  rank  smell.  The  toughness  of  bull- 
beef  is  proverbial. 

MUTTON. 


1  Leg. 

2  Loin,  best  end. 

3  Loin,  chump  end. 

4  Neck,  best  end. 

5  Neck,  scrag  end. 

6  Shoulder. 

7  Breast. 

A  saddle  is  two  chump 
loins. 

A  chine  is  two  loins. 


A  Sheep  consists  of  the  head  and  pluck,  which  includes  the 
liver,  lights,  heart,  sweetbread,  and  melt.  The  fore-quarter  is  the 
neck,  breast,  and  shoulder.  The  liind-quarter  is  the  leg  and  loin. 
The  two  loins  together  form  the  chine  or  saddle. 

A  Lamb  contains  the  head  and  pluck,  that  is  the  liver,  lights, 
heart,  nut,  and  melt.  The  fry  includes  the  sweetbread,  lamb- 
stones,  skirts,  with  some  of  the  liver  and  lights.  The  fore-quarter 
is  the  shoulder,  neck,  and  breast.  The  hind-quarter  is  the  leg  and 

Mutton  and  lamb.  If  the  flesh,  upon  being  pinched  between  the 
fingers,  teels  tender,  and  soon  returns  to  its  former  place,  it  is 


MARKETING. 


lxix 

young;  but  if  the  impression  of  the  fingers  long  remains,  it  is  old. 
The  fat  also  easily  separates  from  the  lean  when  it  is  young  ;  but 
if  old  it  adheres  more  firmly  and  is  clammy  and  fibrous.  Ram 
mutton  is  fat  and  spongy,  the  grain  close,  the  lean  rough  and  of  a 
deep  red  ;  when  indented  by  the  finger  it  does  not  readily  rise 
again.  If  the  sheep  had  the  rot,  the  flesh  will  be  palish,  the  fat  a 
faint  yellow  ;  the  flesh  will  be  also  loose  at  the  bone,  and  if 
squeezed  hard,  some  drops  of  water  resembling  dew  will  appear  on 
the  surface. 

In  choosing  a  fore-quarter  either  of  mutton  or  lamb,  if  the  vein 
in  the  neck  looks  ruddy,  or  of  an  azure  colour,  it  is  fresh  ;  but  if 
yellowish  it  is  near  tainting ;  and  if  green  it  is  already  tainted. 
Examine  the  hind-quarter  under  the  kidney ;  feel  also  whether 
the  knuckle  be  stiff' or  limber :  a  faint  or  ill  smell  in  the  former, 
or  an  unusual  limberness  in  the  latter,  demonstrates  that  it  is  stale. 
In  choosing  a  lamb’s  head,  note  particularly  the  eyes  :  if  they  be 
sunk  or  wrinkled,  it  is  stale;  if  plump  and  lively,  it  is  fresh. 
Wether-mutton  is  to  be  preferred  to  ewe-mutton,  which  is  distin¬ 
guished  chiefly  by  the  udder;  but  the  flesh  of  ewe-mutton  is  paler 
and  the  grain  closer. 

House-lamb  is  in  high  season  at  Christmas,  but  lasts  all  the 
year.  Grass-lamb  comes  in  about  April  or  May,  and  is  good  till 
the  middle  of  August. 

VEAL. 


1  Loin,  best  end.  " 

2  Loin,  chump  end. 

3  Fillet. 

4  Hind  knuckle. 

5  Fore  knuckle. 

6  Neck,  best  end. 

7  Neck,  scrag  end. 

8  Blade-bone. 

9  Breast,  best  end. 

10  Brisket  end. 


A  Calf  consists  of  the  following  pieces The  head  and  in¬ 
wards  are  the  pluck ;  the  inwards  consist  of  the  heart,  liver,  lights, 
nut,  skirts,  the  throat-sweetbread,  and  the  windpipe-sweetbread. 
The  fore-quarter  is  the  shoulder  (8),  neck  (6,  7),  and  breast  (10). 
The  hind-quarter  is  the  leg,  which  contains  the  knuckle  (4)  and 
fillet  (3),  and  the  loin  (1,2). 

Veal.  If  the  vein  in  the  shoulder  be  of  a  bright  red  or  look 
blue,  it  is  newly  killed  ;  but  if  greenish,  yellowish,  or  blackish,  or 
more  clammy,  soft,  or  limber  than  usual,  it  is  stale  ;  if  there  be 
;any  green  spots  about  it,  it  is  either  tainting  or  already  tainted. 
iThe  loin  taints  first  under  the  kidney,  and  the  flesh  when  stale  will 
be  soft  and  flabby.  The  neck  and  breast  are  first  tainted  at  the 


INTRO  DUCT10  N. 


Ixx 

upper  end,  and  when  so  have  a  dusky,  yellowish,  or  greenish 
appearance,  and  the  sweetbread  on  the  breast  will  be  clammy. 
The  leg,  if  newly  killed,  will  be  stiff  in  the  joint,  but  if  stale 
limber,  and  the  flesh  clammy  with  green  or  yellowish  spots.  The 
flesh  of  a  bull-calf  is  firmer  than  that  of  a  cow-calf,  and  the  fat 
more  curdled.  Veal  from  a  cow-calf  is  generally  to  be  preferred 
to  that  from  a  bull-calf.  Cow-calf  veal  is  always  known  by  the 
fine  smooth  roll  of  fat  containing  the  young  udder  attached  to  the 
legs ;  whilst  that  on  the  legs  of  the  bull-calf  is  not  smooth  but 
knobby,  and  by  no  means  in  such  quantity.  That  veal  is  generally 
preferred  which  is  obtained  from  calves  fed  by  hand  and  in  the 
house  ;  what  is  called  running  veal  is  neither  so  white  nor  so  fat, 
but  perhaps,  notwithstanding,  more  wholesome.  In  choosing  a 
calf’s  head,  observe  the  directions  given  above  for  that  of  the 
lamb.  Veal  is  in  season  the  whole  year,  but  is  found  in  greatest 
perfection  in  the  spring  months. 

PORK. 


1  The  sparerib. 

2  The  hand. 

3  The  belly. 

4  The  fore-loin. 

5  The  hind-loin. 

6  The  leg.  . 


Pork.  If  the  lean,  on  being  pinched  between  the  fingers,  break, 
and  feels  soft  and  oily,  or  if  the  skin  can  be  easily  ripped  with  the 
nails,  or  if  the  fat  be  soft  and  oily,  it  is  young  ;  but  if  the  lean  be 
rough,  the  fat  very  spongy,  and  the  skin  stubborn,  it  is  old.  If  it 
be  a  boar,  or  a  hog  gelt  at  full  growth,  the  flesh  will  feel  harder 
and  rougher  than  usual,  the  skin  thicker,  the  fat  hard  and  fibrous, 
the  lean  of  a  dusky  red  and  of  a  rank  smell.  The  freshness  of 
pork  may  be  determined  by  inserting  the  finger  at  the  bone  which 
comes  out  in  the  middle  of  the  fleshy  part  of  the  legs  and  hands, 
as  it  first  taints  in  those  places,  when  the  smell  will  be  the  criterion  ; 
the  skin  is  also  clammy  and  sweaty  when  stale,  but  smooth  and 
cool  when  fresh.  P">rk  is  never  so  good  in  the  hot  summer 
months  as  at  other  times.  Measly  pork  must  always  be  avoided. 

It  may  not  be  inappropriate  here  to  observe,  that  hog’s  lard 
should  be  chosen  for  its  firmness  and  whiteness.  When  it  is  soft 
and  discoloured  it  is  not  so  good ;  being  most  probably  obtained 
from  pigs  fed  with  the  grains  from  distilleries. 

Pork  divides  at  the  head  and  inwards,  which  last  are  the  haslet, 
consisting  of  the  heart,  liver,  lights,  &c.  The  chitterlins  and  guts. 
The  fore-quarter  which  is  the  fore-loin  and  spring  ;  and  if  the  hog 
be  large  a  spare-rib  may  also  be  cut  off.  The  hind-quarter  is  the 
leg  and  loin. 


MARKETING. 


lxxi 

A  Bacon  Hog  is  cut  up  differently,  in  order  that  bacon  and 
hams  may  be  obtained  from  it.  Spare-ribs,  chines,  griskins,  and 
bladebones  are  the  chief  joints.  The  feet  and  ears  form  also, 
when  pickled,  an  agreeable  dish. 

Brawn  is  best  known  by  the  thickness  of  the  rind,  and  its  hard¬ 
ness  or  softness  ;  if  thick  and  hard  it  is  old  ;  if  soft,  and  the  rind 
moderately  thick,  it  is  young.  If  the  rind  and  fat  be  remarkably 
tender,  it  is  not  boar,  but  barrow  or  sow-brawn. 

Dried  Hams  and  Bacon.  Run  a  sharp-pointed  knife  into  the 
middle  of  the  ham,  on  the  inside  under  the  bone,  and  draw  it  out 
quickly  ;  if  its  smell  be  good  and  the  knife  little  daubed,  the  ham 
is  good  ;  but  if  the  knife  be  much  daubed,  has  a  rank  smell,  and 
ill  odour  issues  from  the  hole,  it  is  tainted.  Or  a  piece  may  be 
cut  off  at  one  end  ;  if  it  be  white  and  smells  well,  it  is  good  ; 
but  if  yellowish,  of  a  rusty  colour,  or  has  an  ill  smell,  it  is  either 
tainted,  or  rancid,  or  soon  will  be  so.  A  gammon  of  bacon  may 
be  tried  in  the  same  manner.  The  goodness  of  bacon  may 
also  be  known  by  the  thinness  of  the  rind,  the  rvhiteness  and 
firmness  of  the  fat,  and  the  redness  of  the  streaks  :  when  the 
rind  is  thick,  the  fat  soft  and  yellow,  and  streaks  of  a  russet 
colour,  the  bacon  is  not  good. 


VENISON. 


Venison.  Let  the  fleshy  parts  of  the  different  joints  be  examined 
in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for  ham,  and  according  to  the 
sweet  or  rank  smell  is  it  new  or  stale.  Observe  also  the  colour 
of  the  meat,  for  if  it  be  stale  or  tainted  it  will  be  of  a  flesh  colour, 
intermixed  with  yellowish  or  greenish  specks.  If  the  flesh  be 
tough  and  hard,  the  fat  contracted,  the  hoofs  large  and  broad, 
and  the  heel  bony  and  much  worn,  it  is  old. 


ixxii 


]  introduction. 


POULTRY. 

A  Capon,  if  young,  will  have  the  spurs  short  and  blunt,  and 
the  legs  smooth.  A  true  capon  has  a  fat  vein  on  the  side  of  the 
breast,  a  thick  belly  and  rump,  and  its  comb  will  be  short  and 
pale.  If  it  be  new,  it  will  have  a  close,  hard  vent;  but  if  stale, 
an  open  loose  vent. 

Turkey,  Turkey-Poults,  and  Bustards.  If  the  spurs  of  a  tur¬ 
key-cock  be  short  and  his  legs  black  and  smooth,  he  is  young, 
but  if  his  spurs  be  long,  and  his  legs  pale  and  rough,  he  is  old. 
If  he  has  been  long  killed,  the  eyes  will  be  sunk  in  the  head  and 
the  fat  will  feel  very  dry  ;  but  if  fresh,  the  feet  will  be  lirnper  and 
the  eyes  lively.  The  same  signs  will  apply  to  the  hen.  If  she 
be  with  egg,  the  vent  will  be  open  ;  if  not,  it  will  be  close  and 
hard.  By  these  signs,  the  newness  or  staleness  of  turkey-poults  may 
be  discovered ;  in  their  age  you  cannot  be  deceived.  The  above 
rules  apply  also  to  that  curious  fowl  the  Bustard. 

A  Cock,  Hen,  $c.  If  a  cock  be  young,  his  spurs  will  be  short 
and  dubbed  ;  but  if  sharp  and  standing  out,  he  is  old.  The 
spurs  are  sometimes  pared  or  scraped  for  the  purpose  of  deception. 
If  the  vent  be  hard  and  close,  it  is  a  sign  of  his  being  newly  kil¬ 
led  ;  but  if  he  be  stale,  the  vent  will  be  open.  A  hen  may  be 
known  by  the  same  signs ;  and  if  old,  her  legs  and  comb  will  be 
rough  ;  if  smooth,  she  is  young.  Chickens,  if  pulled  dry,  will  be 
stiff'  when  new  ;  when  stale,  they  are  limber  and  the  vents  green. 
If  scalded  or  pulled  wet,  rub  the  breast  with  your  thumb  or 
finger,  and  if  they  be  rough  and  stiff,  they  are  new  ;  if  smooth  and 
slippery,  stale. 

A  Goose,  Wild-Goose,  and  Bran- Goose.  If  the  bill  and  foot 
be  red  and  the  body  full  of  hairs,  it  is  old  ;  if  the  bill  be  yel¬ 
lowish,  and  the  body  has  but  few  hairs,  it  is  young.  If  new',  the 
feet  will  be  limber;  but  if  stale,  dry.  These  rules  apply  equally 
to  the  goose,  the  wild-goose,  and  the  bran-goose.  Green-geese 
are  in  season  from  May  or  June  till  it  is  three  months  old  :  other 
geese  should  be  picked  dry,  but  green-geese  should  be  scalded. 

Wild  and  Tame  Ducks  are  hard  and  thick  on  the  belly  when 
fat,  but  thin  and  lank  when  poor;  when  new,  they  are  limber¬ 
footed,  but  dry-footed  when  stale.  A  wild-duck  may  be  distin¬ 
guished  from  a  tame  one  by  its  foot  being  smaller  and  reddish. 
Ducks  should  be  picked  dry,  but  ducklings  should  be  scalded. 

The  Shuffler,  Godwit,  Gull,  Ruff,  Dotterel,  Wheatear,  fyc.  when 
new,  are  limber-footed ;  when  stale,  the  feet  are  stiff ;  when  fat, 
the  rump  is  fat;  when  lean,  it  is  close  and  hard;  when  young, 
the  legs  are  smooth,  when  old,  rough. 

Pheasants.  The  spurs  of  a  pheasant-cock,  when  young,  are 
short  and  dubbed,  when  old,  long  and  sharp  ;  when  new,  the 
vent  is  firm,  w  hen  stale  it  is  open  and  flabby.  The  pheasant-hen, 
when  young,  has  smooth  legs,  and  the  flesh  is  of  a  fine  and  curi¬ 
ous  grain;  when  old,  her  legs  are  rough  and  her  flesh  hairy  when 
nulled.  If  with  egg,  her  vent  will  be  open;  if  not  with  egg, 
close.  The  newness  or  staleness  of  the  pheasant  is  discovered  by 


MARKETING.  Ixxiii 

the  same  signs  as  those  given  above  for  the  cock.  In  season  in 
October  and  during  the  winter  months. 

Heath  and  Pheasant  Poults,  when  new,  are  limber  and  their 
vents  white  and  stiff ;  when  stale,  they  are  dry-footed,  the  vent 
green,  and  if  touched  hard,  it  will  peel. 

Heath  Cock  and  Hen,  and  Grouse.  The  newness  or  staleness  of 
these  is  known  by  the  same  signs  as  the  preceding.  When 
young,  their  legs  and  bills  are  smooth;  when  old,  both  are  rough. 
In  season  from  August  till  March. 

Woodcocks  and  Stupes  are  limber-footed  when  new,  dry-footed 
when  stale  ;  if  fat,  thick  and  hard.  If  their  noses  be  foul  with 
mucus,  and  the  throats  moorish  and  muddy,  they  are  bad.  A  snipe, 
if  fat,  has  a  fat  vein  in  the  side  under  the  wing,  and  it  also  feels 
thick  in  the  vent.  Found  in  England  only  in  the  winter,  and  then 
always  in  season,  but  best  a  few  weeks  after  their  first  appearance. 

Partridges  when  young  have  black  bills  and  yellowish  legs ; 
when  old,  white  bills  and  bluish  legs ;  when  new,  a  fast  vent ; 
when  stale,  a  green  and  open  one,  which  peels  with  the  touch. 
If  they  have  lately  fed  on  green  wheat  and  their  crops  be  full, 
by  smelling  to  their  mouths  you  will  discover  whether  their  crops 
be  tainted  or  not.  In  season  in  Autumn. 

Pigeons,  Doves,  Plover,  Sfc.  Pigeons  are  red-legged  when  old  ; 
if  new  or  fat,  they  are  limber-footed,  and  feel  full  in  the  vent; 
when  stale,  the  vent  is  green  and  flabby.  The  turtle-dove  is  dis¬ 
tinguished  by  a  bluish  ring  round  its  neck,  the  other  parts  being 
almost  white.  The  stock-dove  exceeds  both  the  wood-pigeon 
and  the  ring-dove  in  bigness. 

These  rules  for  the  choice  of  pigeons  apply  also  to  the  plover, 
fieldfarei  teal,  widgeon,  thrush,  lark,  blackbird,  fyc. 

Hare  and  Leveret.  When  the  claws  are  blunt  and  rugged,  and 
the  cleft  in  the  lip  spreads  much,  the  hare  is  old  ;  but  if  these 
signs  be  absent,  she  is  young;  the  ears,  if  she  be  young,  will 
tear  like  a  sheet  of  brown  paper  ;  if  old,  they  are  dry  and  tough. 
If  new  and  fresh  killed,  the  flesh  will  be  white  and  stiff ;  if  stale, 
limber.  The  newness  or  staleness  of  a  leveret  may  be  known  by 
the  same  signs  as  the  hare  ;  but  a  real  leveret  may  be  distinguished 
by  having  a  knob  or  small  bone  near  the  foot  on  its  fore-leg  :  this 
knob  is  not  found  in  the  hare.  Hares  are  in  season  from  Septem¬ 
ber  till  March  ;  leverets  from  March  till  September. 

A  Rabbit,  if  old,  has  the  claws  very  long  and  rough,  and  grey 
hairs  are  intermixed  with  the  wool ;  if  young,  the  claws  and 
wool  are  smooth ;  if  stale  it  will  be  limber,  and  the  flesh  will 
look  bluish,  with  a  kind  of  slime  upon  it ;  but  if  fresh,  it  will  be 
stiff,  and  the  flesh  white  and  dry.  Tame  rabbits  are  in  season  all 
the  year,  wild  ones  from  June  till  February;  tame  rabbits  are 
sometimes  rank  and  by  no  means  so  good  as  wild  ones,  but  if  pro¬ 
perly  fed  and  kept  clean  they  are  much  better. 

FISH. 

To  ascertain  whether  fish  be  fresh  or  stale,  let  the  gills  be 
examined  ;  if  these  be  a  lively  red,  they  are  fresh  ;  if  brown  and 

e 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixxiv 

of  an  unpleasant  smell,  they  are  stale.  Fish  taken  in  running 
water  or  the  sea  are  always  better  than  those  taken  in  ponds. 

Salmon,  Trout,  Carp,  Tench,  Pike,  Grayling,  Barbel,  Chub,  Whi¬ 
ting,  Rulf,  Eel,  Shad,  fyc.  The  newness  or  staleness  of  these 
is  known  chiefly  by  the  colour  of  the  gills,  which,  when  fresh, 
are  red,  when  stale,  brown  ;  also  by  their  being  hard  or  easy  to  be 
opened,  the  standing  out  or  sinking  of  the  eyes,  the  fins  being 
stiff  or  limber,  and  by  the  smell  of  the  gills.  Eels  taken  in  running 
water  are  better  than  those  taken  in  ponds  ;  those  called  the  silver 
eels  are  most  esteemed:  the  best  of  these  are  obtained  from  salt-water 
rivers.  The  Thames  salmon  bears  the  best  price  ;  the  Severn,  next. 
The  spring  and  summer  are  the  season  for  this  fish.  Trout  are 
in  high  season  in  June ;  tench,  in  July,  August,  and  September. 

Turbot,  if  plump  and  thick  and  the  belly  of  a  cream  colour,  is 
good ;  but  if  thin  and  of  a  bluish  white  on  the  belly,  indifferent. 
In  season  the  greater  part  of  the  summer. 

Soles,  if  thick  and  stiff  and  of  a  cream  colour  on  the  belly,  are 
good;  if  thin,  limber,  and  the  belly  of  a  bluish  white,  the  con¬ 
trary.  In  season  during  the  summer,  but  in  the  market  nearly 
the  whole  year. 

Cod  and  Codling  should  be  chosen  thick  towards  the  head ;  and 
the  flesh  when  cut  should  be  very  white.  In  season  from  Decem¬ 
ber  till  April  or  later. 

Herrings  and  Mackarel,  when  new,  have  the  gills  of  a  lively 
shining  red,  the  eyes  sharp  and  full,  and  the  body  stiff ;  but  if 
the  gills  be  dusky  and  faded,  the  eyes  dull  and  sunk,  and  the 
tail  limber,  they  are  stale.  The  herring  should  be  full  of  roe  or 
melt,  or  it  is  not  esteemed.  In  season  in  the  summer  and  autumn 
months. 

Pickled  Salmon,  when  new  and  good,  has  the  scales  stiff  and 
shining,  the  flesh  is  oily  to  the  touch  and  parts  in  flakes  without 
crumbling;  when  bad,  the  contrary. 

Pickled  and  Red  Herrings.  If,  on  opening  a  pickled  herring, 
the  bone  be  white  or  of  a  bright  red,  and  the  flesh  white,  oily,  and 
flakey,  it  is  good.  If  a  red  herring  smell  well,  be  of  a  good  gloss, 
and  parts  well  from  the  bone,  it  is  good. 

Dried  Ling  and  Cod.  That  which  is  thickest  in  the  pole,  and 
the  flesh  of  the  brightest  yellow,  is  the  best. 

Sturgeon  has  the  veins  and  gristle,  when  good,  of  a  blue  colour, 
the  flesh  white,  the  skin  limber,  the  fat  underneath  of  a  pleasant 
scent,  and  it  may  be  cut  without  crumbling. 

The  roe  of  the  sturgeon  is  usually  taken  out,  spread  upon  a  table, 
beaten  flat  and  sprinkled  with  salt ;  it  is  then  dried  in  the  air  and 
sun,  and  afterwards  in  ovens.  It  should  be  of  a  reddish  brown 
colour  and  very  dry  :  this  is  called  caviare,  and  is  eaten  with  salt 
and  vinegar. 

Flounders,  when  fresh,  are  stiff,  their  eyes  bright  and  full,  and 
their  bodies  thick.  They  are  in  season  from  January  to  March 
and  from  July  to  September. 

Smelts,  when  good,  have  a  refreshing  smell  like  cucumbers 
newly  cut,  are  of  a  silvery  hue  and  very  firm. 


MARKETING. 


Ixxv 

Mullets  of  the  sea  are  preferable  to  the  river  mullets  and  the 
red  to  the  grey.  They  should,  if  good,  be  very  firm.  In  season  in 
August,  and  are  excellent  fish. 

A  Lobster,  if  new,  has  a  pleasant  smell  at  that  part  of  the  tail 
which  unites  with  the  body,  and  the  tail  when  opened  falls  smart, 
like  a  spring;  but  when  stale,  it  has  a  rank  smell  and  the  tail  is 
limber.  If  spent,  a  white  scurf  will  issue  from  the  moutli  and  the 
roots  of  the  small  legs.  If  it  be  full,  the  tail  about  the  middle 
will  be  full  of  hard  reddish-skinned  meat,  which  may  be  dis¬ 
covered  by  thrusting  a  knife  between  the  joints  on  the  bend  of  the 
tail.  The  heaviest  are  best  if  there  be  no  water  in  them.  The 
cock  is  generally  smaller  than  the  hen,  of  a  deeper  red  when 
boiled,  has  no  spawn  under  its  tail,  and  the  uppermost  fins  within 
its  tail  are  stiff  and  hard.  These  directions  apply  to  boiled  lob¬ 
sters,  but  in  order  to  have  them  in  perfection  it  is  best  to  buy 
them  alive  and  boil  them  at  home.  In  season  throughout  the 
summer  months.  Lobsters  having  incrustations  upon  them  are  old  ; 
they  should  be  avoided. 

Crabs.  When  stale,  the  shells  will  be  of  a  dusky  red  colour, 
the  joints  of  the  claws  limber  and  loose,  and  may  be  turned  any 
;  way  with  the  finger;  an  ill  smell  issues  also  from  the  throat ;  these 

(indications  being  absent,  they  are  good. 

Prawns  and  Shrimps,  if  hard  and  stiff,  of  a  pleasant  smell,  and 
their  tails  turn  strongly  inward,  are  new ;  but  if  limber,  their 
colour  faded,  of  an  unpleasant  smell  and  feel  slimy,  they  are  stale. 
The  best  criterion  of  the  freshness  of  these  fish  is  the  ease  with 
which  they  are  detached  from  the  shells :  if  they  can  be  pulled 
off  very  readily,  they  are  fresh  ;  but  if  with  difficulty,  or  the  fish 
itself  break  in  pulling  it  is  certainly  stale. 

Oysters  from  Colchester,  Pyfleet,  and  Milford  are  esteemed  the 
best ;  the  native  Milton  are  also  very  good.  They  are  known  to 
be  alive  and  vigorous  when  they  close  fast  upon  the  knife,  and  let 
go  as  soon  as  they  are  wounded  in  the  body.  They  are  in  season 
from  August  to  April. 

To  feed  Oysters.  Wash  them  first  in  water  with  a  birch-broom 
till  quite  clean,  then  lay  them  bottom  downwards  in  a  pan,  pouring 
over  them  water  having  salt  dissolved  in  it  in  the  proportion  of 
about  one  pound  to  two  gallons.  The  water  should  be  changed 
every  two  or  three  days.  Some  sprinkle  the  oysters  with  flour  or 
oatmeal,  but  this  is  not  now  esteemed  necessary;  they  must 
however  be  wholly  covered  with  the  water.  Barrelled  oysters 
packed  at  the  beds  are  said  to  be  better  without  being  put  in 
water :  these  should  not  be  disturbed  till  wanted.  Barrelled 
oysters  are  not  in  general  the  best,  being  mostly  young  ones. 

BUTTER. 

When  you  buy  butter,  taste  and  smell  it  yourself.  The  quality 
of  salt  butter  may  be  known  by  attention  to  the  smell  as  well  as 
the  taste.  If  it  be  in  a  cask,  trust  not  to  the  top  alone,  but  unhoop 
it  to  the  middle,  thrusting  a  knife  between  the  stave,  by  which 
i.  examination  you  cannot  be  deceived.  The  smell  and  taste  of 

e  2 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixxvi 

good  butter  can  scarcely  be  described  ;  they  are,  however,  too  well 
known  to  need  description. 

EGGS. 

The  large  end  of  an  egg  is  always  warm  to  the  tongue,  because 
it  contains  air,  but  it  is  no  criterion  of  the  goodness  of  the  egg. 
Hold  the  egg  up  against  the  sun  or  a  candle  ;  if  the  white  appears 
clear  and  fair  and  the  yolk  round,  it  is  good  ;  but  if  muddy  or 
cloudy,  and  the  yolk  broken,  it  is  bad.  Or  put  it  into  a  pan  of 
cold  water,  the  fresher  it  is  the  sooner  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  ; 
if  it  be  rotten  or  addled,  it  will  swim  on  the  surface  of  the  water. 
The  best  way  to  keep  eggs  is  in  bran  or  meal,  turning  them 
frequently  some,  however,  place  the  small  end  downwards  in 
fine  woodr-ash  s  :  to  keep  them  for  a  long'period  they  may  I  c  buried 
in  salt,  which  it  is  said  will  preserve  them  in  almost  any  cl'mate. 

CHEESE. 

If  old  cheese  be  roush-coated,  rugged  or  dry  at  top,  be¬ 
ware  of  little  worms  called  hoppers,  and  also  of  mites,  a  still 
smaller  animal.  If  it  be  full  of  holes,  moist  or  spongy,  hoppers 
may  be  expected  to  be  found  in  it.  If  any  crack  or  any  soft  and 
perished  place  appear  on  the  outside,  examine  into  its  depth,  for 
the  greater  part  may  be  hidden  within.  Cheese  is  to  be  chosen  by 
its  moist  smooth  coat.  A  fat  cheese,  if  of  much  size,  has  generally 
rounded  edges,  and  the  sides  are  swelled  out  more  or.  less ; 
although  excessive  swelling  out  of  the  sides  is  not  a  good  sign  ; 
neither  is  an  elevation  of  the  top  desirable.  A  poor  cheese  has 
usually  keen  edges,  and  the  sides  are  straight.  Fat  cheese  may 
also  be  known  by  rubbing  a  small  portion  of  it  between  the  finger 
and  thumb :  if  it  soon  becomes  smooth  and  soft,  melting  as  it 
were  on  the  finger  by  the  animal  heat,  it  is  fat;  but  if  it  remains 
tough  and  crumbly,  it  is  not  rich  nor  of  prime  quality.  No  cheese 
should  be  chosen  which  has  the  surface  much  swelled,  such 
swelling  being  an  indication  of  its  containing  holes  and  being 
badly  made,  and  that  it  has  most  probably  also  an  unpleasant 
smell  and  taste.  Besides  these  indications,  no  cheese  should  be 
purchased  without  being  both  tasted  and  smelled. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  TRUSSING. 

Although  the  poulterers  in  London  truss  all  the  different  ani¬ 
mals  which  they  send  home,  yet,  as  it  often  happens,  even  here, 
that  untrussed  game  and  poultry  are  sent  at  once  to  private  fami¬ 
lies  from  the  country,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  art  of 
trussing  should  be  known  by  every  cook  and  female  domestic 
servant,  as  well  as,  indeed,  to  the  mistress  of  a  family  ;  no  apology 
can  be  therefore  needed  for  the  introduction  of  this  article, 
which  in  modern  cookery  books  is  too  often  omitted  :  to  persons 
in  the  country  these  directions  are  indispensable. 

In  trussing,  these  general  rules  must  be  carefully  attended  to. 
"  ake,  care  that  all  the  stubs  be  perfectly  removed ;  and  when 


TRUSSING. 


XXV11 


poultry  or  game  is  drawn,  particular  care  must  be  taken  not  to 
break  the  gall-bladder :  for,  if  any  of  the  gall  be  spilt  about  the 
bird,  it  will  impart  to  it  a  bitter  taste,  which  neither  washing  nor 
wiping  can  wholly  remove. 

Turkey.  When  the  turkey  is  properly  picked,  break  the  leg-bone 
close  to  the  foot,  and  draw  out  the  strings  from  the  thigh.  Cut 
off  the  neck  close  to  the  back,  leaving  the  crop-skin  sufficiently 
long'to  turn  over  to  the  back.  Next,  take  out  the  crop,  and  loosen 
the  liver  and  gut  at  the  throat  end  with  the  middle  finger ;  then 
cut  off  the  vent  and  take  out  the  gut.  Pull  out  the  gizzard  with 
a  crookecj  sharp-pointed  iron,  and  the  liver  will  follow,  taking 
care  not  to  break  the  gall-bladder.  Wipe  out  the  inside  perfectly 
clean  with  a  wet  cloth.  Cut  the  breast-bone  through  on  each  side 
close  to  the  back,  and  draw  the  legs  close  to  the  crop.  Put  a 
cloth  on  the  breast,  and  beat  the  high  bone  down  with  a  rolling 
pin  till  it  lies  flat. 

Turkey  for  boiling. 


If  the  turkey  is  to  be  trussed  for  boiling,  cut  the  legs  off ;  then 
put  your  middle  finger  into  the  inside,  raise  the  skin  of  the  legs, 
and  put  them  under  the  apron  of  the  turkey.  Put  a  skewer  in  the 
joint  of  the  wing  and  the  middle  joint  of  the  leg,  and  run  it  through 
the  body  and  the  other  leg  and  wing.  The  liver  and  gizzard  must 
be  put  in  the  pinions,  care  being  taken  to  open  previously  the  giz¬ 
zard  and  take  out  the  filth ;  the  gall-bladder  must  also  be  removed 
from  the.  liver;  then  turn  the  small  end  of  the  pinion  on  the  back, 
and  tie  a  packthread  over  the  ends  of  the  legs  to  keep  them  in 
their  places. 


Turkey  for  roasting. 


If  the  turkey  is  to  be  roasted,  leave  the  legs  on,  put  a  skewer 
in  the  joint  of  the  wing,  tuck  the  legs  close  up,  and  put  the 
skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg  and  body.  On  the  other  side 
put  another  skewer  in  at  the  small  part  of  the  leg,  close  on  the 
outside  of  the  sidesman,  and  put  the  skewer  through,  and  the 
same  on  the  other  side.  Put  the  liver  and  gizzard  between  the 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixxviii 


pinions,  and  turn  the  points  of  the  pinions  on  the  back.  Put 
close  above  the  pinions  another  skewer  through  the  body  of  the 
turkey. 

Turkey  Poults  must  be  trussed  thus  :  separate  the  neck  from  the 
head  and  body,  but  do  not  remove  the  neck-skin.  They  must  be 
drawn  in  the  same  manner  as  a  turkey.  Put  a  skewer  through 
the  joint  of  the  pinion,  tuck  the  legs  close,  run  the  skewer 
through  the  middle  of  the  leg,  through  the  body,  and  so  on  the 
other  side.  Cut  off  the  under  part  of  the  bill,  twist  the  skin  round 
the  neck,  and  put  the  head  on  the  point  of  the  skewer,  with  the 
bill  end  forward.  Another  skewer  must  be  put  in  the  sidesman, 
and  the  legs  be  placed  between  the  sidesman  and  apron  on  each 
side  :  pass  the  skewer  through  all,  and  cut  off  the  toe-nails. 
Some  lard  them  on  the  breast.  The  liver  and  gizzard  may  or  may 
not  be  used,  as  you  choose. 

Goose.  Having  picked  and  stubbed  it  clean,  cut  the  feet  off  at 
the  joint  and  the  pinion  off  at  the  first  joint.  Then  cut  off  the 
neck  close  to  the  back,  leaving  the  skin  of  the  neck  long  enough 
to  turn  over  the  back.  Pull  out  the  throat  and  tie  a  knot  at  the 
end.  Loosen  the  liver  and  other  matters  at  the  breast  with  your 
middle  finger,  and  cut  it  open  between  the  vent  and  rump.  Next 
draw  out  all  the  entrails  excepting  the  soal.  Wipe  out  the  body 
clean  with  a  wet’cloth,  and  beat  the  breast-bone  flat  with  a  rolling 
pin.  Put  a  skewer  into  the  wing,  and  draw  the  legs  close  up ; 


Goose. 


put  the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg  and  through  the 
body  ;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  in  the 
small  of  the  leg,  tuck  it  close  down  to  the  sidesman,  and  run  it 
through  ;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Cut  off  the  end  of  the 
vent,  and  make  a  hole  large  enough  to  admit  the  rump,  as  it 
holds  the  seasoning  much  better  by  such  means. 


Ducks. 


Breast, 


Back, 


TRUSSING.  lxxix 

Ducks  are  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  geese,  except  that  the 
feet  are  left  on  the  ducks  and  are  turned  close  to  the  legs. 

Fvwls  must  first  be  picked  very  clean,  and  the  neck  cut  off  close 
to  the  back.  Put  your  finger  into  the  inside  and  raise  the  skin  of 
the  legs,  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  of  the  skin  and  put  the  legs  un 
der.  Put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinion,  bring  the  leg 
close  to  it,  put  the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg  and 
through  the  body  ;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Having  opened 
the  gizzard,  take  out  the  filth,  and  remove  the  gall-bladder  from 
the  liver  ;  put  the  gizzard  and  liver  in  the  pinions,  and  turn  the 
points  of  the  pinions  on  the  back,  tying  a  string  over  the  tops  of 
the  legs  to  keep  them  in  their  proper  place. 


Fowl  for  roasting. 


If  the  fowl  is  to  be  roasted,  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the 
pinion,  and  bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close  to  it.  Put  the 
skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg  and  through  the  body  ;  do  the 
same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  in  the  small  of  the 
leg  and  through  the  sidesman;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put 
another  skewer  through  the  skin  of  the  feet,  the  nails  of  which 
must  be  cut  off. 

Chickens  must  be  picked  and  drawn  in  the  same  manner  as  fowls. 
But  as  their  skins  are  so  tender,  if  they  be  plunged  in  scalding- 
water,  and  taken  out  as  soon  as  the  feathers  will  readily  slip  off, 
the  trouble  of  picking  will  be  much  abridged. 

If  to  be  boiled,  cut  off  the  nails,  give  the  sinews  a  nick  on  each- 
side  of  the  joint,  put  the  feet  in  at  the  vent,  and  then  put  in  the 
rump.  Draw  the  skin  tightly  over  the  legs,  put  a  skewer  in  the 
first  joint  of  the  pinion,  and  bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close.  Put 
the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  legs  and  through  the  body  : 
do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Clean  the  gizzard,  and  separate 
the  gall-bladder  from  the  liver  ;  put  the  liver  and  gizzard  into  the 
pinions,  and  turn  their  points  on  the  back. 

If  to  be  roasted,  cut  off  the  feet,  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint 
of  the  pinions,  and  bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close.  Run  the 
skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg  and  through  the  body  :  do 
the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  into  the  sidesman 
and  run  the  skewer  through.  Having  cleaned  the  liver  and  giz¬ 
zard,  put  them  iu  the  pinions,  the  points  of  which  must  be  turned 
on  the  back,  and  pull  the  breast-skin  over  the  neck. 

Wild-fowl.  Having  picked  them  clean,  cut  off  the  neck  close 
to  the  back,  and  with  the  middle  finger  loosen  the  liver  and  guts 
next  the  breast.  Cutoff  the  pinions  at  the  first  joint,  then  cut  a 
slit  between  the  vent  and  rump,  and  draw  them  clean.  Clean 


lx  XX 


INTRODUCTION. 


them  properly  with  the  long  feathers  on  the  wing ;  cut  off  the 
nails,  and  turn  the  feet  close  to  the  legs.  Put  a  skewer  into  the 
pinions,  pull  the  legs  close  to  the  breast,  and  run  the  skewer 
through  the  legs,  body,  and  other  pinion.  Cut  off  the  vent  and 
then  put  the  rump  through  it.  These  directions  will  answer  for 
every  kind  of  wild  fowl. 

Pigeons  must  first  be  picked,  and  then  let  the  neck  be  cut  off 
close  to  the  back.  Take  out  the  crop,  cut  off  the  vent,  aud  draw 
out  the  guts  and  gizzard,  but  leave  in  the  liver"  for  a  pigeon  has 
no  gall-bladder. 

If  the  pigeon  is  to  be  roasted,  cut  off  the  toes,  cut  a  slit  in  one  of 
the  legs,  and  put  the  other  through  it.  Draw  the  leg' tight  to  the 
pinion,  put  a  skewer  through  the  pinions,  and  turn  the  point  on 
the  back. 

If  for  a  pie,  the  feet  of  the  pigeon  must  be  cut  off  at  the  joint, 
then  turn  the  legs  and  stick  them  in  the  sides  close  to  the  pinions. 
If  they  are  to  be  stewed  or  boiled,  they  must  be  trussed  in  the  same 
manner. 

Woodcocks  and  Snipes  are  very  tender  to  pick,  particularly  if  not 
quite  fresh  ;  they  must  be,  therefore,  handled  with  great  care  and 
as  little  as  possible.  When  they  are  picked  clean,  cutoff  the  pi¬ 
nions  at  the  first  joint,  and  with  the  handle  of  the  knife  beat  the 
breast-bone.  Turn  the  legs  close  to  the  thighs,  and  tie  them  toge¬ 
ther  at  the  joints.  Put  the  thighs  close  to  the  pinions,  put  a 
skewer  into  the  pinion  and  run  it  through  the  thighs,  body,  and 
the  other  pinion.  Skin  the  head,  turn  it,  take  out  the  eyes,  and 
put  the  head  on  the  point  of  the  skewer  with  the  bill  close  to  the 
breast.  Plovers  are  trussed  in  the  same  manner.  Woodcocks, 
snipes,  and  plovers  must  never  be  drawn,  they  being  dressed  with 
all  their  entrails. 

Larks,  Wheat-ears,  c|-c.  being  picked  clean,  must  have  their 
heads  cut  off,  and  the  pinions  at  the  first  joint.  Beat  the  breast¬ 
bone  flat  with  the  handle  of  a  knife,  turn  the  feet  close  to  the  legs, 
and  one  into  the  other.  Draw  out  the  gizzard,  and  run  a  skewer 
through  the  middle  of  the  bodies  of  as  many  as  you  mean  to  dress  : 
they  must  be  tied  on  the  spit. 

Pheasants,  Partridges,  and  Moor-Game.  Pick  them  very  clean, 
cut  a  slit  at  the  back  of  the  neck,  take  out  the  crop,  loosen  the 
liver  and  gut  next  the  breast  with  your  fore-finger,  then  cut  off  the 
vent  and  draw  them.  Cut  off  the  pinion  at  the  first  joint,  and 
wipe  out  the  inside  with  the  pinion  you  have  cutoff :  of  course  the 
pinions  need  not  be  picked  beyond  the  first  joint.  Beat  the  breast¬ 
bone  flat  with  a  rolling  pin,  put  a  skewer  in  the  pinion,  and  bring 
the  middle  of  the  legs  close.  Then  run  the  skewer  through  the 
legs,  body,  and  the  other  pinion  ;  bring  the  head  and  put  it  on 
the  end  of  the  skewer,  the  bill  fronting  the  breast:  put  another 
skewer  into  the  sidesman,  and  put  the  legs  close  on  each  side  the 
apron,  and  then  run  the  skewer  through  all.  The  beautiful  fea¬ 
thers  on  the  head  of  the  cock-pheasant  must  be  left,  and  paper 
put  over  them  to  screen  them  from  the  fire.  The  long  feathers  in 
the  tail  must  also  be  saved,  to  be  stuck  in  the  rump  when  roasted. 


CARVING. 


XXXI 


If  they  are  to  be  boiled,  put  the  legs  in  the  same  manner  as  in  a 
fowl  for  boiling. 

Hares.  Cut  off  the  four  legs  at  the  first  joint,  raise  the  skin 
back,  and  draw  it  over  the  hind  legs.  Leave  the  tail  whole,  draw 
the  skin  over  the  back,  and  slip  out  the  fore-legs.  Cut  the  skin 
off  the  neck  and  head,  taking  care  to  leave  the  ears  on,  but  do  not 
forget  to  skin  them.  Take  out  the  liver,  lights,  &c. ;  and  be 
careful  to  take  the  gut  out  of  the  vent.  Cut  the  sinews  which  lie 
under  the  hind  legs,  bring  them  up  to  the  fore-legs  ;  put  a  skewer 
through  the  hind  leg,  then  through  the  fore-leg  under  the  joint, 
run  it  through  the  body  ;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  ano¬ 
ther  skewer  through  the  thick  part  of  the  hind  legs  and  body,  put 
the  head  between  the  shoulders,  and  run  a  skewer  through  to  keep 
it  in  its  place.  Put  a  skewer  in  each  ear  to  make  them  stand 
erect  and  tie  a  string  round  the  middle  of  the  body,  over  the  legs, 
to  keep  them  in  their  place. 

A  young  Fawn  may  be  trussed  in  the  same  manner,  remembering 
to  cut  off  the  ear. 


Rabbit  for  roasting  or  boiling. 


Rabbits  must  be  cased  in  the  same  manner  as  hares,  except  that 
the  ears  must  be  cut  off  close  to  the  head.  Cut  the  vent  open, 
and  slit  the  legs  about  an  inch  upon  each  side  the  rump.  Make 
the  hind  legs  lie  fiat,  and  bring  the  ends  close  to  the  fore-legs. 
Put  a  skewer  in  the  hind  leg,  then  in  the  fore  leg,  and  through 
the  body.  If  for  boiling,  bring  the  head  round  and  put  it  on  the 
skewer,  as  per  cut.  If  two  rabbits  be  roasted  together,  they 
should  be  trussed  at  full  length,  with  six  skewers  run  through 
them  both,  so  that  they  may  be  properly  fastened  on  the  spit. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


It  is  common  at  good  tables  for  the  Cook  to  send  up  pigs,  hams, 
geese,  turkeys,  and  indeed  all  the  larger  poultry  ready  carved  ; 
this  is  very  convenient  and  saves  the  person  presiding  at  the  table 
much  trouble. 

e  3 


Ixxxii 


INTRODUCTION. 


A  leg  of  mutton  if 
boiled  should  be  ser¬ 
ved  in  the  dish  as  it 
lies  upon  its  back ; 
but  when  roasted,  the 
under  side,  as  here 
represented  by  the 
letter  d,  should  lie 
uppermost  in  the 
dish.  This  joint  must 
be  turned  towards  the 
carver  as  it  here  lies,  the  shank  being  to  the  left  hand ;  then  hold¬ 
ing  it  steady  with  his  fork,  he  should  cut  down  through  the  fleshy 
part  on  the  thigh  quite  to  the  bone,  in  the  direction  a,  b,  through 
the  gland  of  fat  called  the  pope’s  eye.  The  most  juicy  parts  are 
from  the  line  a,  b,  upwards  towards  c.  The  fat  lies  chiefly  on  the 
ridge  e,  e,  and  must  be  cut  in  the  direction  e,f.  The  cramp  bone 
may  be  cut  out  by  holding  the  shank  bone  with  the  left  hand,  and 
with  a  knife  cutting  down  to  the  thigh-bone  at  the  point  d,  then 
passing  under  the  cramp-bone  in  the  direction  d,  c. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton.  The 
shank-bone should  be  wound 
round  with  writing  paper  so 
that  the  carver  may  turn  it 
as  he  pleases.  It  should  be 
first  cut  in  the  direction  a,  b , 
the  knife  being  passed  quite 
to  the  bone.  The  best  fat 
lies  on  the  outer  edge  e,  and  should  be  cut  out  in  thin  slices  in  the 
direction  of  e,f.  Some  delicate  slices  may  be  cut  out  on  each  side 
of  the  ridge  of  the  blade-bone  in  the  direction  c,  d :  the  line  be¬ 
tween  the  two  dotted  lines  is  the  direction  in  which  the  blade- 
bone  lies,  and  cannot  be  cut  across. — On  the  under  side  are  two 
parts  very  full  of  gravy  :  one  is  a  deep  cut  close  under  the  shank 
accompanied  with  fat,  the  other,  the  flap,  is  lean. 

A  leg  of  Pork  may  be  cut  up  as  a  leg  of  mutton. 

Edge  or  Aitch- 
Bone  of  Beef.  This 
joint  should  lie 
towards  the  car¬ 
ver  as  here  repre¬ 
sented.  A  thick 
slice  should  first 
be  cut  off  the 
whole  length  of 
the  joint,  begin¬ 
ning  at  a,  and 
cutting  it  through  the  whole  surface  from  a  to  b.  The  soft  fat  lies 
on  the  back,  below  the  letter  d;  the  firm  fat  is  to  be  cut  in  thin 

horizontal  slices  at  the  point  _ _ a  is  the  skewer :  it  should  be 

drawn  out  before  the  dish  is  served  up ;  or  if  it  be  necessary  to 
leave  a  skewer  in,  it  should  be  a  silver  one. 


CARVING. 


Ixxxiii 


A  saddle  of  Mutton. 
Cut  long  slices  in  the 
fleshy  parts  on  both 
sides  of  the  back-bone 
in  the  direction  a,  b.  If 
it  be  sent  up  with  the 
tail,  this  may  be  readily 
divided  by  cutting  be¬ 
tween  the  joints. 


A  Breast  of  Veal 
roasted  should  be 
first  cut  quite 
through  the  line 
d,  c;  next  cut  it 
across  in  the  line 
a,  c ;  from  c  to  the 
last  a  on  the  left, 
quite  through,  di¬ 
viding  the  gristly 
'from  the  rib-bones.  The  thick  or  gristly  part  should  be  cut  into 
pieces  as  wanted  in  the  lines  a,  b.  A  rib  may  be  cut  from  the  line 
d,  c,  and  with  a  part  of  the  breast,  a  slice  of  the  sweetbread  e, 
cut  across  the  middle. 

A  spare-rib  of  Pork  is  carved  by  cutting  slices  from  the  fleshy 
part,  which  will  afford  many  good  cuts  ;  the  fleshy  parts  being  cut 
away,  the  bones  may  be  easily  disjointed  and  separated.  Apple 
sauce  is  generally  served  up  with  this  dish. 

Half  a  Calf’s  Head 
boiled  should  first  be  cut 
quite  along  the  cheek 
bone,  in  the  fleshy  part, 
in  the  direction  c,  b, 
where  several  handsome 
slices  may  be  cut.  In 
the  fleshy  part  at  the 
neck  end  will  be  found 
part  of  the  throat  sweet- 
oread,  which  may  be  cut  into  in  the  line  c,  d,  and  is  esteemed  the 
best  part  in  the  head.  The  eye  may  be  taken  out  of  its  socket  a 
whole,  by  carefully  forcing  the  point  of  the  carving  knife  down 
in  one  side  to  the  bottom  of  the  socket,  and  cutting  quite  round. 
The  white  thick  crinkled  skin,  on  the  under  side  of  the  roof  of 
lie  mouth,  called  the  palate,  may  be  easily  separated  from  the 
oone  with  the  knife,  by  lifting  the  head  up  with  the  left  hand. 
Good  meat  will  be  found  covering  the  under  jaw,  and  some  nice 
gristly  fat  about  the  ear. 

The  brains  and  tongue  are  generally  served  up  in  a  separate 
dish,  in  which  case  a  slice  from  the  thick  part  of  the  tongue  is 
jthe  best. 


Ixxxiv 


I NTRODUCTION. 


A  Ham  may 
becuttwoways: 
across  in  the  line 
b,  c ;  or  with  the 
point  of  the  car¬ 
ving  knife  in  the 
circle  in  the 
middle,  taking 
out  a  small  piece 
as  at  c,  and  cut¬ 
ting  thin  slices 
in  a  circular  di¬ 
rection,  thus  enlarging  it  by  degrees.  This  last  method,  although 
it  preserves  the  gravy  and  keeps  the  ham  moist,  is  not  often  practi¬ 
sed  ;  the  most  saving  way  is  to  begin  at  the  hock  and  at  d. 

A  Haunch  of 
Venison  must  be 
first  cut  across 
down  to  the  bone 
in  the  line  a,  b,  c, 
then  turn  the  dish 
with  the  end  a  to¬ 
wards  you,  put  in 
the  point  of  the 
knife  at  b,  and  cut 
it  down  as  deep  as  possible  in  the  direction  b,  d,  and  take  out  as 
many  slices  as  you  please  on  the  right  or  left.  The  best  flavoured 
and  fattest  slices  will  be  found  on  the  left  of  the  line  b,  d,  when 
the  end  d  is  turned  towards  you.  The  slices  should  neither  be 
cut  too  thick  nor  too  thin  :  plenty  of  gravy  should  be  given  with 
them. 

An  Ox's  Tongue  should  be  cut  across,  the  best  slices  being  about 
the  middle  or  between  the  middle  and  the  root.  Slices  of  fat 
having  a  kernal  with  each  may  be  conveniently  cut  from  the  root 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 


Part  of  a  Sir¬ 
loin  of  Beef.  A 
part  only  of  this 
celebrated  joint  is 
here  shown,  the 
whole  being  too 
large  for  most  fami¬ 
lies.  It  is  here  re¬ 
presented  standing 
np  in  the  dish,  to 
shew  the  inside  or 
under  part ;  but 
when  sent  to  table,  it  is  always  laid  down,  so  that  c  lies  close  on 
the  dish.  The  part  c  d  then  lies  uppermost,  and  the  line  a  b 
under  the  outside  slice  should  be  first  cut  off  quite  down  to  the 
bone  in  the  direction  c,  d.  Plenty  of  marrowy  fat  will  be  found 


CARVING. 


lx  XXV 

underneath  the  ribs.  To  cut  a  slice  underneath,  the  joint  must  be 
turned  up  by  taking  hold  of  the  end  of  one  of  the  ribs  with  the 
left  hand,  and  raising  it  till  it  is  in  the  position  here  represented. 
One  slice  or  more  may  now  be  cut  in  the  direction  of  the  line  a, 
b,  passing  the  knife  down  to  the  bone. 

A  Buttock  of  Beef,  sometimes  called  the  Round,  should  first  have 
a  thick  slice  cut  off  all  round,  after  which  cut  thin  slices  from  the 
same  place.  As  it  is  a  dish  that  is  frequently  brought  to  table 
cold  on  a  second  day,  it  should  always  be  cut  handsome  and 
even. 

A  Fillet  of  Veal  is  to  be  carved  as  a  buttock  of  beef,  and  is 
brought  to  table  in  the  same  form,  but  roasted ;  it  is  generally 
stuffed  under  the  skirt  or  flap  with  a  savoury  pudding  ;  this  must 
be  cut  deep  into  in  a  line  with  the  surface  of  the  fillet,  and  thin 
slices  taken  out. 

Afore  quarter 
of  Lamb  roasted 
must  have  first 
the  shoulder  se¬ 
parated  from  the 
breast  in  the  di¬ 
rection  c,  g,  d,  e; 
this  being  re¬ 
moved,  pepper 
and  salt  are 

sprinkled  upon  the  separated  parts  ;  some  squeeze  a  lemon  upon 
it :  lay  the  shoulder  again  on  the  separated  part.  The  gristly  part 
must  next  be  separated  from  the  ribs  in  the  line/,  d.  The  ribs  may 
be  separated  from  the  rest  in  the  line  a,  b  ;  and  a  piece  or  two  off 
in  the  lines  h,  i,  &c.  Lastly,  the  shoulder  may  be  put  in  another 
dish  and  carved  like  a  shoulder  of  mutton. 

A  roasted  pig  is  seldom 
sent  to  the  table  whole. 
The  head  is  cut  off  by  the 
cook,  the  body  split  down 
the  back,  and  served  up 
as  here  represented,  the 
dish  being  garnished  with 
the  chops  and  ears.  The 
shoulder  must  be  first  sepa¬ 
rated  in  a  circular  direction 
from  the  carcass,  as  you 
take  off  the  shoulder  from  a  quarter  of  lamb.  The  leg  may  be  also 
separated  in  the  same  manner.  The  triangular  piece  of  the  neck, 
which  is  the  most  delicate  part  of  the  pig,  may  now  be  cut  off,  and 
the  ribs,  which  is  esteemed  the  next  best  part,  may  be  easily 
divided. 

IB  -- 


lxxxvi 


INTRODUCTION. 


A  Hare. — Put  in 
the  point  of  the 
knife  at  g,  and  cut 
it  through  all  the 
way  down  to  the 
rump,  on  the  side 
of  the  back-bone  in 
the  line  g,  h.  Cut 
it  similarly  on  the 
other  side.  Then 
divide  the  back 
into  several  small 
pieces,  more  or  less,  in  the  lines  i,  k  ;  the  pudding  with  which 
the  belly  is  stuffed  is  then  readily  to  be  got  at.  The  legs 
thus  separated  from  the  back-bone  are  now  to  be  cut  off 
from  the  belly.  The  shoulders  must  be  cut  off  in  the  circular 
line  e, /,  g.  The  leg  may  also,  if  desired,  be  divided  from 
the  thigh  ;  which  last  is  one  of  the  best  'parts  of  the  hare.  Cut 
off  the  ears  at  the  roots,  and  divide  the  head  into  two  parts,  by 
forcing  the  point  of  the  knife  first  through  the  skull  in  the  middle, 
between  the  ears,  down  to  the  nose. 

This  mode  of  cutting  up  a  hare  can  only  be  adroitly  done  when 
the  animal  is  young.  If  old,  cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders  first ; 
then  cut  off  some  long  narrow  slices  from  each  side  of  the  back¬ 
bone  in  the  direction  g ,  h.  Lastly,  divide  the  back-bone  into  three 
or  more  parts. 

A  hare  stewed  or  jugged  (see  page  103)  is  by  far  the  most 
agreeable  way  of  bringing  it  on  table.  It  will  make  an  elegant 
and  savory  dish,  can  be  kept  hot,  and  may  be  served  round  with 
less  trouble  than  when  roasted. 

A  rabbit  is  cut  up  in  the  same  way  as  a  hare,  but  being  smaller, 
after  the  legs  are  separated  from  the  body  the  back  is  divided  into 
two  or  three  parts,  without  dividing  it  from  the  belly. 

A  goose.  —  Having 
the  neck  towards  you, 
cut  off  two  or  three 
long  slices  from  each 
side  of  the  breast-bone 
in  the  lines  a,  b.  Then 
turn  the  goose  on  one 
side,  and  putting  the 
fork  through  the  small 
end  of  the  leg-bone  and  pressing  it  close  to  the  body,  the  knife 
being  entered  at  d,  will  raise  the  joint,  and  the  leg  may  be  taken 
off  by  passing  the  knife  under  it  in  the  direction  d,  e.  If  the  leg 
hang  to  the  carcass  at  the  joint  e,  by  turning  it  back,  if  the  goose 
be  young,  it  will  readily  separate,  if  old  with  some  difficulty.  Next, 
take  the  wing  off  by  passing  the  fork  through  the  small  end  of  the 
pinion,  pressing  it  close  to  the  body,  entering  the  knife  at  the  notch 
c,  and  pressing  it  under  the  wing,  in  the  direction  c,  d;  there  is  a 
nicety  required  in  hitting  this  notch,  which  a  little  practice  will 


CARVING. 


lxxxvii 


soon  teach.  When  the  leg  and  wing  on  one  side  are  taken  off, 
take  those  off  on  the  other.  Cutoff  the  apron  in  the  line  e,f,  g, 
then  the  merry-thought  in  the  linei,  h.  The  neck-bones  are  next  to 
be  separated  as  in  the  directions  for  carving  a  fowl,  and  all  other 
parts  of  the  goose  must  be  separated  as  there  directed. 

A  green  goose  is  also  cut  up  in  the  same  way. 

A  pheasant. — The  fork  should  be  fixed  in 
the  breast  so  that  the  bird  may  be  held  firmly. 
Cut  slices  from  the  breast  in  the  lines  a,  b, 
and  proceed  to  take  off  the  leg  on  one  side  in 
direction  d,  e.  Then  cut  off  the  wing  on  the 
same  side  in  the  line  c,  d.  Separate  the  leg 
and  wing  on  the  other  side,  and  then  cut  off 
the  parts  you  before  sliced  from  the  breast. 
Be  careful  in  taking  off  the  wing  to  cut  in  the 
proper  notch;  for  if  you  cut  too  near  the 
neck  you  will  find  the  neck-bone  interfere, 
from  which,  of  course,  the  wing  must  be 
separated.  The  merry-thought  must  now  be 
cut  off  in  the  line  /,  g,  by  passing  the  knife  under  it  towards  the 
neck.  The  remaining  parts  must  be  cut  up  as  described  under 
fowl. 

A  partridge  is  cut  up  like  a  fowl,  the  wings 
being  taken  off  in  the  lines  a,  b,  and  the  merry¬ 
thought  in  the  line  c,  d. 

A  fowl  is  cut  up  in  the  same  way  whe¬ 
ther  roasted  or  boiled.  The  legs,  wings, 
and  merry-thought  are  to  be  taken  off  in  the 
way  mentioned  under  pheasant.  The  fowl  is 
here  represented  on  its  side,  with  one  of  the 
legs,  wings,  and  neck-bones  taken  off.  The 
leg,  wing,  and  merry-thought  being  removed, 
cut  off  the  neck-bones,  which 
is  done  by  putting  in  the  knife 
at  g,  and  passing  it  under  the 
long  broad  part  of  the  bones  in 
the  line  g,  b ,  then  lifting  it  up 
and  breaking  off  the  end  of 
the  shorter  part  of  the  bone 
which  is  attached  to  the  breast¬ 
bone.  Divide  the  breast  from 
the  back  by  cutting  through  the 
tender  ribs  on  each  side  from  the  neck  down  to  the  tail.  Then  lay 
the  back  upwards  on  your  plate,  fix  your  fork  in  the  rump,  and 
laying  the  edge  of  your  knife  in  the  line  b,  c,  c,  and,  pressing  it 
down,  lift  up  the  tail  part  of  the  back,  and  it  will  readily  divide, 
with  the  assistance  of  the  knife  in  the  line  b,  c.  Lastly,  lay  the 
tail  part  of  the  back  upwards  in  your  plate  with  the  rump  from 
you,  and  cut  off  the  side  bones  by  forcing  the  knife  through  the 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixxxviii 


rump-bone  in  the  lines  e,/.  By  very  little  practice  you  may  cut 
the  whole  of  one  side  of  the  fowl,  i.  e.  the  leg  and  wing  in  one 
direct  line. 

A  turkey,  whether  roasted  or  boiled,  is  sent  to  table  like  a  fowl, 
and  cut  up  in  every  respect  like  a  pheasant. 


No.  1.  No.  2. 


Back.  Breast. 


A  pigeon,  (No.  1  is  the  back, 
No.  2  is  the  breast,)  is  sometimes 
cut  up  as  a  ch:cken,  but  most  com¬ 
monly  by  fixing  the  fork  at  the 
point  a,  entering  the  knife  just  be¬ 
fore  it,  and  dividing  the  pigeon  in 
two  according  to  the  lines  a,  b,  and 
a,  c,  in  No.  1  ;  at  the  same  time 
bringing  the  knife  out  at  the  back 
in  the  direction  a,  b,  and  a,  c, 
No.  2. 


A  cod's  head,  and, 
indeed,  fish  gene¬ 
rally,  require  few 
directions  for  carv¬ 
ing.  The  middle  or 
thickest  part  of  a 
fish  is  esteemed  the 
best.  When  cut,  it 
should  be  either 
with  a  spoon  or 
fish-slice.  Take  off 
a  piece  quite  down 
to  the  bone  in  the  directions  a,  b,  d,  c,  putting  in  the  spoon  at 
a,  c ;  with  each  slice  of  fish  give  a  piece  of  the  sound  which 
lies  underneath  the  back-bone  and  lines  it,  the  meat  of  which 
is  thin  and  somewhat  darker-coloured  than  the  body  of  the  fish 
itself. 


Boiled  salmon.  —  The 
belly  is  the  fattest.  In 
carving,  it  is  desirable, 
unless  objected  to,  to 
give  a  slice  of  the  back 
and  belly  to  each  person: 
for  the  one  cut  it  in  the 
direction  d,  c,  the  other 
in  the  line  a,  b. 


Soles  are  sent  to  table  two  ways,  fried  and  boiled.  Cut  them 
across  the  middle,  bone  and  all,  and  give  a  piece  of  the  fish,  a  third 
or  fourth  part,  to  each  person.  The  same  may  be  done  with  other 
fishes,  cutting  them  across. 

Eds  are  to  be  cut  into  pieces  of  about  three  inches  long.  The 
thickest  part  is  reckoned  the  best. 


BILLS  OF  FARE 


AND 

TABLES 


JHeat,  poultry,  (ftame,  Vegetables,  anti  Jprutt 

IN  SEASON  DURING  THE  YEAR. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  JANUARY. 


jptrst  Course. 

White  Soup. 


Small  Ham. 
Mashed  Potatoes. 


Soles. 

Calf’s  Head. 


Harrico  of  Mutton. 
Broccoli. 


Roast  Beef. 
Turbot  or  Cod’s  Head. 


Turkey. 


Tongue  or  Chine. 


Mock  Turtle. 


S&econtf  Course. 

Roast  Partridges. 


Blanc  Mange.  Larks. 

Fancy  Pastry  garnished  with  Conserves. 

Roast  Rabbits.  Sweet  Bread. 

Capon  garnished  with  Cresses. 

Mince  Pies. 

Poached  Eggs  on  Spinach.  Punch  and  other  Jellies 

Fritters  of  Oysters. 


Hcmobcs. 


Sweet  Breads. 


Sausages. 


Lemon  Pudding. 
Tarts  of  Preserved  Fruits. 


Note. — The  soups  and  fish  are  to  be  served  first,  the  removes 
are  to  replace  the  roasts  when  taken  off.  When  turtle  is  served 
it  is  usual  to  have  a  plain  soup  on  the  side  table,  where  there 
should  also  be  plenty  of  plain  dressed  vegetables  during  all  the 
dinner. 


ijijiPPfPW 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MARCH. 


Joint  of  House  Lamb. 

Chickens. 

Harrico  of  Mutton. 


Jptrst  (bourse. 

Gravy  Soup. 
Capon. 

Oyster  Patties. 
Rice  Soup. 


lEntrccs. 

Artichokes. 
Cranberry  Tarts. 

Cucumbers. 
Fricaseed  Fowls. 


Lettuces. 


Mushrooms  broiled. 
Fricaseed  Rabbits. 
Almond  Tarts. 


Marrow  Pudding, 
Prawns. 
Ducklings. 


Tongue. 
Calf’s  Head. 
Beef  Olives. 


Spinach. 


£beconti  Course. 

Turkey. 


Mince  Pies. 
Pigeons. 

Strawberries  in  Cream. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  OCTOBER. 


jpi'rst  Course. 

White  Soup. 

Salmon  Trout.  Fried  Soles. 

Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Cauliflowers.  Stewed  Spinach. 

Two  Chickens  boiled  and  served  with  a  Tongue. 

Ulelets  of  Sweet  Bread.  Oyster  Patties. 

Trout. 


^econb  Course. 

Roast  Grouse. 

Pheasants.  Partridges. 

Prawns. 

rart  of  Fruit  decorated.  French  Beaus  in  Poulette  Sauce. 

Custards. 

Sufflee  of  preserved  Ginger.  Marrow  Pudding. 


Roast  Rabbits. 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON. 


xciv 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON. 


xcv 


I 


®  12 

$  “a  » 

Ql  ^3  ^ 

®  «  w’r1  «) 


OP 

£ 

cd 

H 

._  CG 

S3  S3 
O  C 
OP  <l> 


Sm  — 
1?  OP 


GO 

•4->  ®5  .^3 

J  ^5 


a 

GO 

HH 

PM 


Ss  ►  5  «  bo  So  5  ~  ’I  -2  ^ 


0)  OP 
JH  ' 


c n  ^ 

s  s 

o  o 

OP  o 
b£TJ 
73  O 


P>» 

cd 

-a 

M 

o 

H 

h3 

S3 

a 


if 

c3 

cd  a 
PQ  cd 

Jh  k> 
cd  op 
b£)  fl 
be^j 
o  J-i 

«o 

&1  s  *a  "O 
«3  o  o 

pqpqpqsqucjuy 


XCV1 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON 


XCVli 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON. 


«a 

<v 

o 

c 

CC 


>- 

<3J 


A 

a> 


73  -*-• 


(/) 

pa 

i-3 

PS 

«! 

H 

W 

O 

pa 


•  p§  W  * 

•  ^  <y  g  * 

!|*£| 

i|  «■§  si  sill 

a  S  o  ft  3  3  -a  2  s  5 

)(«tZic/2ceHHE-iE-|Pr 


ca 


tfi  CJ 
bX3" 


•  •  •  *3  ••••••*•••••• 

■  . . 

:  "3  «  ts  o  ;  ;  :  ;  ; . :  : 

•  o  i  •  £  •  •  •  •  •  ija  •  •  • 

:&£  8  $  :  £  :  :  J  :  :  :  -sj  :  »  : 

to  co  «T  SPaP^S  >»fS®’3«3Sos|  * 

aso^^i  g3  J»a5a3'SM3*« 
dcjai^^23i£oT!a|:<2S«)Sfl 
0)OUSnidaBi:3fl#3j3O(i)ti2 
MMMUOUOOUOWfeOOK^i-iS 


xcvin 


ARTICLES  IN  SEASON 


XCIX 


NEW  FAMILY  COOK. 


CHAPTER  I. 

BOILING. 


Please,  Mistress  Cook,  I’d  not  offend. 
Listen  one  moment  to  a  friend. 
Whatever  food  you  have  to  dress. 

Keep  always  by  you  CLEANLINESS — 

A  comely  maiden  neat  and  nice  ; 

Good  Cooks  will  follow  this  advice. 


GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS.  All  meat  should  be 
boiled  slowly  and  in  plenty  of  water.  If  boiled  fast,  the 
outside  will  be  hardened  before  the  inside  is  warm  and  the 
meat  will  be  discoloured.*  It  is  usual  to  allow  a  quarter  of 
an  hour’s  boiling  to  every  pound  of  meat,  but  this  rule, 
although  a  good  general  one,  is,  nevertheless,  liable  to 
many  exceptions  which  will  require  the  exercise  of  the  cook’s 
discretion.  If  the  joint  be  a  thick  one,  such  as  a  buttock 
or  a  round  of  beef,  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour  must  be 
I  allowed  for  each  pound;  if  the  joint  be  a  small  and  a  thin 

*  “  A  thermometer  was  placed  in  water  in  that  state  which 
cooks  call  gentle  simmering — the  heat  was  212°  (i.e.)  the  same 
i  degree  as  the  strongest  boiling.  Two  mutton  chops  were  covered 
i  with  cold  water,  one  boiled  a  gallop,  the  other  simmered  gently, 
j  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  the  flavour  of  the  chop  which  was 
simmered  was  decidedly  superior  to  that  which  was  boiled;  the 
liquor  which  boiled  fast  was  in  like  proportion  more  savoury,  and 
when  cold,  had  more  fat  on  its  surface.  This  explains  why  quick 
:  boiling  renders  meat  hard,  because  its  juices  are  extracted  in  a 
i1  greater  degree.” — House  Boole  of  William  Scott,  M.D.  See  the 
article  Boiling  in  page  27G  of  that  work,  in  which  are  some  ob¬ 
servations  deserving  the  attention  of  the  cook,  but  for  which  we 
I  have  no  room. 

From  these  facts  we  arrive  at  an  important  conclusion  for  the 
,  cook,  namely,  that  when  the  boiled  meat  is  wanted  to  be  eaten  it 
should  be  boiled  slowly;  when  the  juices  of  the  meat  only  are 
wanted,  as  for  soups,  broths,  beef-tea,  See.  fast  boiling  must  be 
the  best. 


2 


BOILING. 


one,  such  as  a  neck  of  lamb,  somewhat  less  than  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  for  each  pound  will  be  enough. 

During  the  boiling  of  every  kind  of  meat  the  scum 
which  arises  should  be  frequently  taken  off:  for  if  it  be  not, 
the  meat  will  be  discoloured.  Fresh  meat  is  usually  directed 
in  cookery  books  to  be  put  into  the  water  when  it  boils; 
salt  meat  when  the  water  is  cold.  Upon  the  whole,  how¬ 
ever,  if  both  fresh  and  salt  meat  be  put  in  while  the  water 
is  cold  and  thus  become  hot  gradually,  it  will  be  found  the 
best  method. 

Notwithstanding  what  has  been  said  above  relative  to 
boiling  meat  in  plenty  of  water,  discretion  even  in  this  is 
necessary,  particularly  if  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  is 
boiled  be  designed  to  be  preserved,  and  also  in  regard  to  the 
economising  of  the  heat:  for,  of  course,  the  larger  the 
quantity  of  liquid  to  be  kept  boiling  the  greater  must  be  the 
fire.  And  here  it  should  be  particularly  noted  that,  although 
the  fluid  in  which  meat  is  boiled  has  been  designated, 
by  the  inconsiderate,  under  the  reproachful  term  of  pot- 
liquor,  and,  too  often,  treated  accordingly ;  yet  every  econo¬ 
mical  housekeeper  should  know  that  much  of  the  nutritive 
parts  of  meat  becomes  dissolved  in  the  water  during  the 
boiling,  and  that  the  pot-liquor,  especially  that  from  fresh 
meat,  may  be  made,  even  if  in  large  quantity  and  weak, 
a  strong  broth  by  boiling  some  of  the  water  away  after  the 
meat  is  taken  out.  Such  liquor  will  be  found  very  conve¬ 
nient  for  the  making  of  soups.  See  the  note  above. 

Neither  milk  nor  oatmeal  should  be  put  into  the  water, 
which  ought  to  be  soft,  if  it  can  be  obtained  sweet.  Some 
dredge  the  joint  to  be  boiled  with  flour,  a  useless  practice, 
and  particularly  so  when  the  liquor  is  designed  to  be  after¬ 
wards  employed  as  broth  or  soup.  It  is  also  usual,  and 
indeed  most  wholesome,  to  boil  lamb,  veal,  and  pork  till 
they  are  thoroughly  done;  but  mutton  and  beef  may  be  less 
boiled  without  any  injury  to  their  nutritive  qualities.  It 
is  also  usual  to  put  a  portion  of  salt  in  the  water;  the 
utility  of  this  may  be  questioned  ;  but  as  water  containing 
salt  requires  a  greater  heat  to  make  it  boil,  salt  may  be  thus 
useful  in. making  tough  meat  more  tender.  Of  course  no 
salt  should  be  put  to  the  water  in  which  any  salt  meat  is  to 
be  boiled. 


BOILING. —  CALF’S  HEAD. 


3 


Although  we  have,  in  some  instances,  when  particular 
delicacy  in  cooking  is  desirable,  directed  the  joint  to  be 
enclosed  in  a  cloth,  it  should  be  observed  that  this  method 
is  not  absolutely  necessary,  provided  great  care  be  taken  in 
removing-  the  scum  as  it  arises,  and  in  otherwise  guarding 
the  vessel  from  the  access  of  impurities — smoke,  soot,  &c. 
during  the  boiling:  but  particular  care  should  always  be 
taken  that  the  liquor  during  the  boiling  completely  covers 
the  joint;  or  it  will  often  happen  that  the  scum  and  .other 
impurities  will  stick  to  the  portion  of  it  above  the  water 
and  render  it  unsightly  and  disagreeable. 

To  admonish  the  cook  that  all  the  vessels  in  which  meat 
is  boiled  should  be  clean  and  wholesome  may  seem  almost 
unnecessary;  but  cleanliness  in  a  cook  can  be  scarcely  too 
much  insisted  on.  All  copper ,  brass ,  and  lead  utensils  are 
more  or  less  poisonous  and  must  be  carefully  avoided  in 
cookery,  unless  their  insides  be  well  tinned.  The  best 
boilers,  saucepans,  and  stewpans,  are  those  made  of  iron 
tinned  in  the  inside.  But  reference  may  be  made  to  the 
section  concerning  the  Implements  of  Cookery  in  the  In¬ 
troduction.  See  also  what  is  there  said  in  regard  to  the 
employment  of  steam  in  the  cooking  of  food. 

CALF’S  HEAD.  Divide  the  head  into  two  parts.  Let 
the  brains  and  the  tongue  be  taken  out  and  washed  well  in 
water;  after  which  set  them  by  soaking  in  water  for  an 
hour  or  more  in  order  to  their  being  made  into  a  dish  to  be 
described  below. 

Let  the  divided  head  be  now  washed  well  in  several 
waters  in  order  to  separate  the  blood  and  other  impurities ; 
and  if  it  be  soaked  afterwards  in  warm  water  for  half  an 
hour  it  will  be  more  effectually  cleansed.  Put  now  the  head 
into  cold  water  having  previously  tied  it  up  in  a  cloth;  set 
it  on  the  lire  to  boil  and  as  the  scum  arises  let  it  be  taken 
off.  It  should  be  boiled  till  it  is  perfectly  tender.  The 
time  of  its  boiling  will  depend  upon  its  size;  if  small  an 
hour  and  a  half  may  be  sufficient ;  if  large  two  hours  and 
a  half ;  and  if  boiled  with  the  skin  on,  by  which  it  is  made 
a  very  nutritious  dish,  it  will  require  from  half  an  hour  to 
an  hour  longer.  Let  it  be  served  up  browned  over  with 
grated  crust  of  bread;  some  use  also  parsley  chopped  fine. 
Bacon  or  pickled  pork  is  usually  the  accompanying  dish ; 

b  2 


BOILING. — VEAL. 


4 


the  vegetables  are  either  greens,  carrots,  or  potatoes  if  they 
be  preferred. 

The  brains,  being-  effectually  cleansed  and  the  membranes 
separated  from  them,  boil  them  in  a  cloth  for  about  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  hour ;  boil  some  sage  or  parsley  (some  use  both) 
till  it  is  tender;  let  it  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  two 
table  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  to  which  add  a  little  salt. 
Chop  the  boiled  brains  small,  and  warm  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  to  this  add 
the  sage  or  parsley. 

Lay  the  tongue  boiled  and  peeled  in  the  middle  of  a  small 
dish  and  the  brains  round  it. 

Cold  Calf’s  head  is  not  desirable;  but  when  hashed , 
which  it  may  be,  with  the  addition  of  some  sweet  herb,  an 
onion,  lemon  peel,  &c.  it  becomes  a  savoury  dish.  A  few 
slices  of  bacon  warmed  may  be  placed  around  the  dish  w-hen 
it  is  served  up. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  one-half  of  the  calf’s  head  is 
desired  to  be  boiled  while  the  other  is  baked;  in  such  case 
the  part  to  be  baked,  after  being  well  cleansed,  must  be  first 
parboiled;  then  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  rub  it  over 
the  head  with  a  feather;  strew  over  it  some  pepper,  salt, 
thyme,  parsley  chopped  small,  sliced  lemon  peel,  grated 
bread  and  nutmeg;  stick  bits  of  butter  over  it  and  bake  it. 
The  boiled  and  baked  parts  may  be  served  up  on  the  same  dish. 

TO  BOIL  VEAL  LIKE  STURGEON.  Take  a  small 
and  fine  fillet  of  veal  from  a  cow  calf,  and  after  having- 
removed  the  membranous  skin  which  surrounds  it,  lard  it 
all  over  with  some  bacon  and  ham.  Put  into  a  stewpan 
some  slices  of  bacon  and  veal,  over  which  strew  some 
pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs ;  put  in  the  fillet  with  suf¬ 
ficient  broth  to  cover  the  whole.  The  stewpan  being' 
closely  covered  let  them  simmer  very  gently.  When  the 
veal  is  nearly  done  enough,  add  a  bottle  of  good  white 
wine,  an  onion  sliced,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  little  mace.  Put 
on  the  cover  of  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  again  over  the  fire 
for  ten  minutes.  If  it  is  intended  to  be  eaten  hot  the  fol¬ 
lowing  sauce  must  be  made  while  it  is  stewing :  — 

Take  a  glass*  of  gravy,  and  a  glass  and  a  half  of  vine- 

*  Whenever  a  glass  is  mentioned  as  a  measure  in  this  work  it  is 
to  be  understood  as  a  wine- glass  or  two  ounces. 


5 


BOILING.  —  LAMB,  VENISON,  BEEF. 

gar,  half  a  lemon  sliced,  a  large  onion  sliced,  some  bruised 
pepper-corns,  and  some  salt.  Boil  the  whole  a  few  minutes 
and  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve.  Lay  the  meat  in  the  dish 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold  it  must  not  remain  in  the  liquor 
in  which  it  is  stewed,  but  be  taken  out  and  placed  in  a 
proper  vessel :  it  will  prove  very  good. 

GRASS  LAMB,  when  boiled,  should  be  served  up  with 
spinach,  cabbage,  carrots,  or  broccoli. 

A  LEG  OF  LAMB  is  usually  boiled  in  a  cloth,  in 
order  that  it  may  become  white  ;  the  loin  is  sometimes  cut 
into  steaks  and  fried  :  both  are  often  served  up  together,  the 
I  leg  being  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  fried 
1  steaks  around  it.  Garnish  with  fried  parsley.  Spinach  is 
usually  the  accompanying  vegetable  dish. 

A  HAUNCH  OR  A  NECK  OF  VENISON,  having 
1  lain  in  salt  for  a  week  should  be  boiled  in  a  cloth  well 
floured.  For  sauce  boil  some  cauliflowers,  pulled  into  little 
sprigs,  in  milk  and  water,  with  some  fine  white  cabbage, 

)  some  turnips  cut  into  squares,  and  beet-root  cut  into  pieces 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and  half  an  inch  thick.  After 
the  cabbage  is  boiled  let  it  be  beaten  in  a  saucepan  with 
some  butter  and  salt.  When  the  meat  is  done  and  placed 
|  in  the  dish  lay  a  sprig  of  cauliflower  and  some  of  the  tur¬ 
nips  mashed,  with  some  cream  and  a  little  butter;  lay  the 
cabbage  next,  then  the  turnips,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  be 
full.  Dispose  the  beet-root  tastefully.  Let  there  be  also 
some  melted  butter  if  required.  This  is  a  good  as  well  as 
a  showy  dish. 

The  haunch  or  neck  thus  dressed  eats  well  when  hashed 
j  with  gravy  and  sweet  sauce. 

FOR  THE  BOILING  OF  BEEF  GENERALLY, 
the  directions  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter  will  be  suf¬ 
ficient  ;  but  it  may  be  useful  here  to  observe  that,  if  any 
joint  of  beef,  not  much  salted,  and  designed  to  be  boiled, 
I  be  inclosed  in  a  paste  made  with  flour  and  water,  the  good- 
.3  ness  of  the  meat  will  be  more  effectually  retained,  and, 
]  consequently,  be  of  superior  quality  to  that  which  is  boiled 
in  immediate  contact  with  water ;  but  when  thus  inclosed 
\  the  joint  will  require  more  time  in  boiling.  One  of  the  best 


6 


BOILING.  —  BEEF,  HAM. 

joints  to  be  treated  in  this  way  is  that  known  in  London  by 
the  name  of  an  H-bone,  but  it  ought  rather  to  be  called 
isch-bone. 

AN  ECONOMICAL  ISCH-BONE  OF  BEEF.  In¬ 
close  the  piece  of  beef  commonly  called  an  H-bone  or  edge- 
bone  in  a  paste  made  with  flour  and  water  with  which  mix 
some  beef-suet  chopped  fine;  boil  in  proportion  to  the 
weight  of  the  joint,  but  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
for  each  pound  should  be  allowed ;  indeed  it  qught  to  be 
boiled  till  the  paste  as  wrell  as  the  meat  is  completely  done. 
Let  it  be  served  up  with  the  paste  in  the  dish  and  with  the  fol¬ 
lowing  sauce  in  a  boat.  Grate  plenty  of  horse-raddish  and 
mix  it  with  some  crumb  of  bread  chopped  fine  and  a  lump 
of  sugar;  boil  these  for  a  few  minutes  with  some  of  the 
liquor  in  which  the  beef  has  been  boiled;  let  it  be  thick. 
This  is  at  once  an  economical  and  an  excellent  dish. 

Note.— If  you  desire  to  serve  it  up  in  a  more  elegant 
way,  the  paste  may  be  placed  in  a  separate  dish. 

A  BULLOCK’S  OR  CALF’S  HEART  is  sometimes 
boiled ;  it  may  be  stuffed  as  mentioned  under  Baking ,  which 
see ;  or  it  is  sometimes  stuffed  with  sage  and  onion  like  a 
goose,  (see  Roasting  Goose).  Many  prefer  this  last  stuf¬ 
fing.  It  should  be  served  up  with  the  same  gravy,  &c.  as 
directed  for  baked  heart.  It  will  require  more  than  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  hour  for  each  pound  that  it  weighs. 

A  HAM,  if  old  and  large,  requires  at  least  twelve  hours’ 
soaking,  but  thirty  or  even  forty  hours  will  be  better,  in 
pure  soft  water  previously  to  its  being  boiled.  The  soaking 
is  designed  chiefly  to  abstract  some  of  the  saltness  of  the 
ham  by  which  it  will  be  rendered  more  palatable  and  more 
wholesome.  A  green  ham  requires  no  previous  soaking. 
A  ham  of  twenty  pounds  will  take,  if  thick  and  short,  Jive 
hours  in  boiling,  and  thus  in  proportion  for  one  of  a  larger 
or  a  smaller  size.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  ham  is  boiled 
slowly,  and  that  during  the  boiling  the  pot  is  well  skimmed. 
When  the  ham  is  taken  up,  pull  off  the  skin  and  rub  it  all 
over,  by  means  of  a  feather,  with  an  egg ;  then  strew  over 
it  some  grated  crust  of  bread.  Some  however  employ 
crumb  of  bread,  and  baste  the  ham  with  butter,  laying  it 
before  the  fire  till  it  becomes  of  a  light  brown.  The  eg’g 
is  frequently  omitted. 


BOILING. — TONGUE,  PORK.  7 

Observe,  that  these  are  the  more  usual  methods  of 
treating-  hams ;  yet  some  persons  still  serve  them  up  with 
the  skins  on  them;  and,  if  the  hams  be  sufficiently  boiled, 
the  skins  will  be  found  a  very  nutritious  part  of  them ;  the 
skins  of  all  animals,  when  freed  from  the  scarf-skin,  con¬ 
sisting  principally  of  gelatine,  and  are  almost  -wholly  soluble 
in  water  by  long  boiling.  The  great  fault  of  the  ham  to  be 
obtained  in  the  ham-shops  of  London  is  that  it  is  almost 
always  insufficiently  dressed.  The  economical  cook  will 
not  fail  to  profit  by  these  remarks  concerning  the  skins  of 
hams  ;  and  if  it  should  be  determined  to  strip  them  off 
they  need  not  be  thrown  away,  but  may  be  converted  by 
more  boiling  into  a  useful  jelly.  The  skin  appears  to  be 
one  of  the  least  affected  or  injured  of  all  the  animal  parts 
by  being  salted  ;  and  it  should  be  remembered,  besides,  that 
if  the  ham  is  designed  to  be  kept  for  some  days  as  a  cold 
dish,  the  skin’s  remaining  on  it  will  preserve  it  better  than 
if  it  be  taken  off. 

A  NEAT’S  TONGUE,  if  dried,  should  be  steeped  all 
night  in  water;  if  it  has  been  long  dried,  twenty-four 
hours’  steeping  will  be  necessary  previously  to  it  being 
boiled.  If  pickled,  and  consequently  soft,  a  few  hours 
steeping  only  is  necessary.  A  moderate  sized  tongue  wall 
require  three  hours’  boiling  at  least.  When  it  is  done  let 
the  skin  be  stripped  off.  If  to  be  eaten  hot  some  stick  it 
with  cloves,  and  rub  it  also  wdth  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
strewing  crumbled  bread  on  it,  then  basting  it  with  butter 
and  lightly  browning  it  before  the  fire  ;  but  these  condi¬ 
ments  are  unnecessary  and  not  well  calculated  to  im¬ 
prove  the  taste  of  the  tongue.  Brown  gravy  or  red  wine 
sauce  is  usually  put  into  the  dish,  and  currant-jelly  round 
the  rim. 

PICKLED  PORK,  being  washed  and  scraped  clean, 
must  be  boiled  till  the  skin  is  tender.  A  pease  pudding 
should  always  accompany  this  dish,  as  well  as  indeed  all 
other  salt  pork,  which  should  be  thoroughly  done  before 
it  is  served  up. 

PIGS’  PETIT-TOES  must  be  boiled  till  they  are  tender; 
but  take  up  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights  when  they  have 
boiled  ten  minutes,  and  shred  them  small.  Take  out  the 
feet  when  boiled  and  split  them  ;  thicken  your  gravy  with 


8 


BOILING. — TRIPE,  LAMb’s  HEAD. 

flour*  ancl  butter,  and  put  into  your  mincemeat  a  spoonful 
of  white  wine,  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  little  salt,  and  give  it  a 
gentle  boil.  Put  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  to  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  then  put  in  the 
petit-toes  and  shake  them  over  the  fire  till  they  are  quite 
hot.  Lay  sippets  of  bread  round  the  dish,  into  which  pour 
the  whole,  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

TRIPE  should  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water  with  onions, 
some  of  which  may  be  afterwards  made  into  sauce :  it 
must  be  boiled  till  it  is  tender ;  one  hour  is  commonly 
enough  for  that  which  is  obtained  at  the  tripe  shops.  Let 
it  be  served  up  in  a  tureen,  with  some  of  the  onions,  in 
the  liquor  in  which  it  is  boiled ;  melted  butter  and  mustard 
are  its  usual  accompaniments. 

COW-HEELS  should  be  boiled  till  they  are  tender, 
then  be  cut  into  pieces;  egg  and  bread  crumb  them  and 
fry  them  a  light  brown,  and  lay  them  round  a  dish  ;  put  in 
the  middle  of  it  sliced  onions  fried ,  or  the  accompaniments 
of  tripe.  The  liquor  in  which  they  are  boiled  will  make 
soup  or  jelly. — See  Soups. 

If,  however,  you  desire  a  more  plain  and  more  wholesome 
dish,  omit  the  egg  and  onions,  the  last  disagreeing  with 
many  stomachs ;  and  it  may  be  added  here,  that  cooks 
generally  are  too  fond  of  using  eggs  upon  every  occasion. 

A  LAMB’S  HEAD,  being  washed  clean,  the  black 
taken  from  the  eyes  and  the  gall  from  the  liver,  must  be 
put  into  warm  water  and  boiled  white  ;  when  done,  lay  it  in 
a  dish  with  the  following  minced-meat  round  it :  boil  the 
heart,  lights,  and  part  of  the  liver  till  they  are  tender; 
then  chop,  flour,  and  put  them  in  some  gravy  seasoned 
with  catchup,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  a 
spoonful  of  cream.  Place  the  other  parts  of  the  liver  fried 
with  small  bits  of  bacon  on  the  minced-meat,  and  let  the 
brains  be  fried  in  little  cakes  and  placed  round  the  rim 

*  Flour  is  generally  ordered  in  cookery  books  to  thicken  melted 
butter ;  but  the  cook  ought  to  know  how  convenient  soever  it 
may  be  to  snatch  up  the  flour  box  and  shake  in  the  flour,  that 
flour ,  sent  into  the  stomach  in  the  crude  state  in  which  it  is  in 
melted  butter,  is  extremely  unwholesome  :  flour,  therefore,  for 
such  purpose  should,  if  possible,  be  avoided  : — see  more  on  this 
subject  under  Soups,  Sauces,  and  Gravies,  as  well  as  in  various 
other  places  in  our  work. 


BOILING. — MUTTON,  RABBIT,  AND  CHICKEN.  9 

with  crisped  parsley  between  them.  Pour  melted  butter 
over  the  head,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON  WITH  CAULIFLOWERS 
AND  SPINACH. — Boil  a  leg1  of  mutton,  cut  venison 
fashion,  in  a  cloth ;  boil  also  three  or  four  cauliflowers  in 
milk  and  water ;  pull  them  into  sprigs  and  stew  them  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  milk;  stew  also  some 
spinach  and  put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  piece 
of  butter,  and  a  little  flour.  The  mutton  being  placed  in  a 
dish,  put  the  spinach  round  it,  and  the  cauliflower  over  all. 
Melt  the  butter  in  which  the  cauliflower  is  stewed  into  a 
smooth  cream,  and  pour  it  on  the  joint. 

Note,  that  there  are  other  and  more  economical  methods 
of  dressing  a  leg  of  mutton  than  the  above :  for  a  small 
family  a  leg  of  mutton  may  be  divided  into  a  fillet  and  a 
knuckle ;  each  of  which  may  be  boiled  on  different  days, 
so  that  both  may  be  eaten  hot,  or  the  fillet  may  be  roasted. 
Although  we  have  directed  the  mutton  above  to  be  inclosed 
in  a  cloth,  there  is  not,  in  general,  the  least  necessity  for 
thus  covering  the  joint,  provided  that  the  scum  which 
arises  in  the  boiling  be  carefully  taken  off.  If  you  desire 
to  have  a  leg  of  mutton  tender  it  is  necessary  that  it 
should  hang1  up  in  a  cool  place  for  three  or  four  days,  or 
in  the  winter  even  a  week  before  it  is  dressed.  The  chief 
complaints  to  be  made  of  the  mutton  to  be  obtained  in 
London  is,  that  it  is  dressed  too  soon  after  being  killed  ; 
and  that  it  is  too  fat. 

A  RABBIT  of  a  middling  size  will  require  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  to  be  boiled ;  when  it  is  done  pull  out 
the  jaw-bones,  stick  them  in  the  eyes,  and  serve  it  up  with 
a  sprig  of  myrtle  or  barberries  in  the  mouth,  covering  the 
whole  with  onion  sauce ;  melted  butter  with  parsley  should 
also  accompany  the  dish. 

A  CHICKEN  should  lie  in  milk  and  water  or  skimmed 
milk  for  two  hours  previously  to  being1  boiled.  Then,  after 
being  singed  and  dusted  with  flour,  cover  it  close  in  cold 
water  and  set  it  on  a  slowfire.  Having  taken  off  the  scum,  boil 
it  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  it  up  with  white  sauce. 

A  FOWL  must  be  singed  and  then  dusted  with  flour ; 
put  it  into  cold  water,  cover  the  kettle  closely  and  set  it  on 
the  fire.  Let  the  scum  be  carefully  taken  off  covering  the 

b  3 


10  BOILING.— TURKEY,  DUCK,  PIGEON. 

vessel  closely  again :  boil  for  half  an  hour  or  thereabouts  ; 
a  small  fowl  requires  less  time  than  is  here  specified,  a 
large  one  more ;  a  very  large  fowl,  as  well  as  a  capon,  will 
require  an  hour.  Melted  butter  and  parsley  is  the  usual 
sauce  ;  or  white  sauce  may  be  used  instead  ;  most  persons 
like  a  nice  bit  of  boiled  bacon  to  eat  with  a  fowl ;  which 
certainly  renders  it  much  more  savoury.  Some  will  boil  a 
fowl  with  oysters  enclosed  in  it ;  but  delicate  stomachs  do 
not  like  such  a  dish. 

A  TURKEY  (hens  it  is  said  are  the  best  for  boiling) 
should  not  be  fed  the  day  before  it  is  killed ;  nor  should  it 
be  dressed  till  it  has  hung  three  or  four  days  at  least. 
Stuffing  is  prepared  in  various  ways ;  some  use  bread, 
about  twenty  oysters  chopped  fine,  a  little  lemon  peel,  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg,  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream ;  others  omit  the 
oysters,  but  put  in,  besides  bread,  an  anchovy,  some  beef 
suet,  shred  ham,  with  herbs,  pepper,  &c.  Stuff  the  crop 
with  part,  and  make  the  rest  into  balls  and  boil  them. 
Dredge  the  turkey  well  with  flour,  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and 
set  it  to  boil.  A  moderate  sized  bird  will  require  an  hour 
and  a  half,  a  large  one  two  hours.  Turkey  poults  about 
twenty  minutes.  Let  it  be  scummed  well  during  the 
boiling.  Place  the  force-meat  balls  around  the  dish,  and 
make  ready  some  oyster  sauce,  with  the  addition  of  butter 
and  cream,  or  liver  and  lemon  sauce,  to  be  poured  over  the 
bird  before  it  is  sent  to  the  table ;  or  the  liver  sauce  may 
be  sent  up  in  a  boat :  so  also  may  be  the  oyster  sauce, 
mixed  with  some  boiled  and  mashed  celery.  This  dish  is 
very  good,  with  pork  sausages,  which  are,  perhaps,  the  best 
forcemeat ;  but  tongue,  ham,  bacon,  or  pickled  pork  is  the 
usual  accompanying  dish. 

A  DUCK,  after  lying  for  a  few  minutes  in  warm  water, 
should  be  taken  out,  placed  in  an  earthen  pan,  and  have  a 
pint  of  boiling  milk  poured  over  it,  in  which  it  must  re¬ 
main  for  two  or  three  hours ;  then  take  it  out,  dredge  it 
with  flour,  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth  for  twenty  minutes.  Let 
it  be  served  up  covered  with  onion  sauce.  Or  the  duck 
may  be  salted  for  two  days,  then  boiled  and  served  up  with 
onion  sauce  :  this  last  method  is  preferred  to  the  preceding  l 
by  some  cooks. 


BOILING. —  GOOSE,  PARTRIDGE,  PHEASANTS, &C.  11 

A  PIGEON,  after  being  washed  in  several  waters  and 
dredged  with  flour,  must  be  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  melted  butter  over  it  and  lay  a  little  brocoli  in  the  dish; 
parsley  and  butter  should  also  be  sent  up  with  it  in  a  boat. 

A  GOOSE  may  be  salted  for  a  week  and  then  boiled 
for  an  hour.  It  should  be  served  up  with  onion  sauce,  or 
cabbage  boiled  or  stewed  in  butter. 

Another  way  is  to  singe  the  goose  and  pour  over  it  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk.  Let  it  lie  all  night,  then  take  it 
out  and  dry  it  well  with  a  cloth.  Cut  small  a  large  onion 
and  some  sage,  and  put  them  into  the  goose,  closing  both 
|  the  neck  and  vent ;  hang  it  up  by  the  leg  till  the  next 
day.  Boil  it  for  one  hour.  Serve  it  up  with  onion  sauce. 

A  PARTRIDGE  should  boil  quickly  in  a  good  deal  of 
water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Let  your  sauce  be  made  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream  and  half  an  ounce  of  butter 
melted  ;  mix  these  and  pour  over  the  bird.  In  the  absence 
of  cream,  melted  butter  may  be  employed  alone. 

A  PHEASANT,  if  small,  requires  half  an  hour’s  boil¬ 
ing;  if  large,  three  quarters.  Stew  some  celery  cut  fine 
'i  and  thickened  with  cream,  to  which  add  a  bit  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  season  with  salt  for  sauce,  which  pour 
over  the  bird  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

SNIPES  or  WOODCOCKS  must  be  boiled  in  the 
!  following  gravy :  cut  a  pound  of  beef  into  small  pieces  and 
boil  it  in  two  quarts  of  water,  with  an  onion,  some  sweet 
herbs,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  six  cloves,  and  some  whole 
pepper,  till  half  the  water  is  consumed  ;  season  it  with  salt, 

|:  and  then  strain  it  off  and  put  the  birds  into  the  liquor  : 

ten  minutes  boiling  will  be  sufficient.  While  this  is  going 
|i  on  cut  the  guts  and  liver  small ;  take  a  little  of  the  gravy 
i  and  stew  them  in  it  with  a  blade  of  mace.  Grate  now  as 
I  much  crumb  of  bread  as  is  inside  a  stale  roll ;  put  it  into 
a  pan  with  butter,  and  fry  it  till  it  becomes  crisp  and  of 
a  light  brown  colour.  When  the  birds  are  ready,  take 
half  a  pint  of  the  gravy  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and 
add  to  the  chopped  guts  two  spoonfuls  of  red  wine  and  half  an 
ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Set  them  on  the  fire  shaking 
the  saucepan  often,  but  not  stirring  with  a  spoon,  till  the 
butter  is  melted ;  put  in  the  fried  crumbs  and  shake  the 
saucepan  again.  Lay  your  birds  in  the  dish  and  pour  the 
"  sauce  over  them.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 


12 


BOILING. — FISH,  SALMON. 

OF  THE  BOILING  OF  FISH  little  is  here  necessary 
to  be  said,  as  particular  directions  are  given  below  for  their 
individual  cooking.  It  may,  however,  be  observed  that  the 
white  kinds,  such  as  cod,  whiting,  haddock,  &c.,  are  now 
very  often  dressed  by  steam;  and,  indeed,  salmon  is  some¬ 
times  thus  prepared  for  the  table ;  we  think,  nevertheless, 
that  this  last  fish  will  be  decidedly  better  for  being  boiled  in 
water.  But  a  little  reflection  will  soon  convince  the  family 
cook,  that  those  fish,  such  as  cod,  which  contain  an  abun¬ 
dance  of  gelatine  that  readily  dissolves  in  water,  more  espe¬ 
cially  when  boiling,  must  be  more  nutritious  when  dressed 
by  steam,  the  gelatine  not  being  so  soon  abstracted  by  this 
last  medium ;  not  to  mention  the  loss  on  the  score  of  eco¬ 
nomy  incurred  by  boiling  the  fish  in  water. 

It  should  be  noted  that,  when  the  fish  is  sufficiently 
boiled  and  might  not  be  immediately  wanted,  it  must  be 
taken  out,  placed  in  a  dish,  and  covered  with  a  cloth  and 
set  over  the  boiling  water,  in  order  that  it  may  be  kept  hot; 
when  wanted,  it  may  again  be  put  into  the  water  for  a  mi¬ 
nute  or  two. 

In  regard  to  the  boiling,  or  otherwise  dressing,  of  all  dried 
fish,  they  ought  all  to  be  previously  soaked  in  water  for  a 
period  more  or  less  long,  dependant  on  their  size  and  salt¬ 
ness;  it  is  true  red-herrings  are  generally  broiled  without 
being  soaked ;  but  there  can  be  no  doubt,  even  th«se  would 
be  improved  both  in  flavour  and  quality  by  soaking  in  water : 
an  hour  or  two  may  be  sufficient  for  dried  whiting  and  other 
white  fish  of  a  similar  size,  if  not  much  salted;  a  much 
longer  time  is  required  for  larger  fish,  as  cod,  which  see. 
Sometimes,  when  expedition  is  required,  boiling  water  poured 
over  the  fish,  will  abstract  the  salt  sooner  and  otherwise  fit 
it  for  dressing. 

A  SALMON,  being  freed  from  its  scales,  blood,  and  en¬ 
trails,  reserving  the  liver  and  the  roe,  and  being  also  well 
washed,  put  it  into  boiling  water  with  some  salt  and  boil  it, 
according  to  its  weight,  the  same  time  as  is  directed  for 
boiling  butcher’s  meat.  The  roe  may  be  boiled  with  the 
salmon  ;  but  the  liver  is  best  boiled  in  a  separate  saucepan 
and  then  made  into  sauce.  Horse-radish  is  sometimes 
boiled  with  this  fish.  Garnish  with  slices  of  fried  salmon 
or  some  small  fish,  scraped  horse-radish,  and  fennel,  which 
last  is  indispensable  as  a  garnish  and  as  sauce.  Shrimp- 


BOILING. — TURBOT,  COD.  13. 

sauce,  or  lobster-sauce,  and  plain  melted  butter,  will  be 
useful  additions. 

If  you  have  any  of  the  salmon  left,  take  equal  parts  of  the 
liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  and  vinegar ;  boil  for  half  an 
hour  with  some  whole  pepper,  cayenne,  bay  leaves,  mace, 
horse-radish  sliced,  and  salt.  When  cold,  put  the  salmon  into 
it.  This  will  be  an  excellent  pickled  salmon  in  a  few  hours. 

Note,  that  it  is  necessary  your  pickle  should  completely 
cover  the  fish. 

In  dressing  part  of  a  salmon,  the  same  rule  of  boiling 
should  be  observed,  but  the  time  may  be  rather  less. 

A  TURBOT  or  BRILL,  being  well  cleansed  and  soaked 
an  hour  in  cold  water,  put  it  on  the  fish-strainer  with  the 
belly  upwards,  and  fasten  a  cloth  tight  over  it,  to  prevent  its 
breaking ;  or  score  the  skin  across  the  thickest  part  of  the 
back,  and  place  its  belly  on  the  strainer  without  a  cloth. 
Put  it  into  the  fish-kettle  with  cold  spring  water,  to  which 
add  four  ounces  of  salt  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  it 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of 
the  fish  :  a  turbot,  if  seven  pounds,  will  require  about  this 
time.  Take  care  that  the  kettle  is  skimmed  well  at  the 
commencement  and  during  the  boiling.  Serve  it  up,  gar¬ 
nished  with  fried  oysters  or  fried  smelts,  crisped  parsley, 
lemon,  and  horse-radish.  Lobster-sauce  and  plain  melted 
butter  are  considered  indispensable. 

A  COD,  being  freed  from  the  gills,  blood,  and  entrails, 
and  well  washed,  must  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water,  to  which 
should  be  added  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  four 
ounces  of  salt.  The  fish  should  be  put  into  the  water  when 
it  is  boiling.  If  a  small  fish,  it  will  be  done  in  fifteen  mi¬ 
nutes  ;  a  large  one  requires  half  an  hour ;  indeed,  if  very 
large,  considerably  more.  The  writer  of  this  had  once  a 
cod,  which  was  caught  in  the  Bristol  Channel,  the  largest  it 
is  believed  ever  heard  of,  which  weighed  sixty  pounds,  and 
for  which  he  gave  the  very  moderate  price  of  five  shillings, 
that  is,  one  penny  per  pound  ;  it  was  a  very  good  one,  and 
took  two  or  more  hours  in  the  boiling. 

In  serving  up  cod,  the  dish  should  be  garnished  with 
horse-radish.  Shrimp  or  oyster  sauce  is  also  a  common 
condiment,  to  which  may  be  added  cayenne  pepper.  But 
perhaps  simple  vinegar  and  a  little  salt  are,  after  all,  the 
most  wholesome,  joined  with  a  small  portion  of  cayenne ; 


14 


BOILING.  —  COD. 


but  some  use  catchup.  The  liver  should  be  cut  in  half  and 
laid  on  each  side. 

If  THE  HEAD  AND  SHOULDERS  OF  THE  COD 
only  be  desired,  boil  as  above  directed  for  the  whole  cod ; 
but,  as  this  is  esteemed  a  superior  dish,  it  is  usual,  after  it  is 
boiled,  to  take  off  the  skin  carefully,  lay  the  fish  before  a 
brisk  fire,  dredge  it  with  flour  and  baste  it  with  butter. 
When  the  froth  rises,  throw  crumbs  of  bread  over  it  and 
baste  it  till  it  froths  wrell.  When  browrn,  serve  it  up,  with 
a  garnish  of  small  fish  or  oysters  fried,  barberries,  horse¬ 
radish,  and  lemon,  not  omitting  the  roe,  if  any,  and  the 
liver,  both  which  cut  in  slices ;  a  little  lobster-sauce  should 
aiso  be  laid  in  lumps  over  the  fish,  which,  and  oyster-sauce 
and  melted  butter,  are  usual  accompaniments. 

Whatever  might  be  the  opinion  of  gourmands  as  to  this 
last  and  the  preceding  dish,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
first  is  by  far  the  most  wholesome  food.  See  w’hat  is  said 
under  the  general  head  of  Boiling  Fish  at  page  12. 

CODS’  SOUNDS,  dressed  in  the  following  manner, 
make  an  agreeable  dish :  boil  them  as  for  eating:  take  them 
up  and  let  them  remain  till  quite  cold.  Make  a  force-meat 
of  chopped  oysters,  crumb  of  bread,  butter,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt;  fill  the  sounds  with  this 
mixture ;  skewer  them  like  a  little  turkey  and  lard  them 
down  on  each  side  as  you  would  the  breast  of  a  turkey. 
Flour  them  and  set  them  before  the  fire  in  a  tin  oven  to 
roast ;  baste  them  well  with  butter.  When  done  pour 
oyster-sauce  over  them,  and  garnish  with  barberries. 

Observe,  that  we  have  been  somewhat  particular  in 
describing  the  dressing  of  cod,  because  we  believe  that  it  is 
a  most  wholesome  and  nutritious,  as  well  as  often  a  cheap 
dish.  It  contains  an  abundance  of  gelatine;  from  the  head 
as  well  as  the  sounds  may  be  obtained,  -with  a  very  little 
trouble,  a  considerable  quantity  of  good  isinglass,  -which 
is  merely  dried  gelatine,  equal,  we  have  little  doubt,  to 
that  obtained  from  the  sturgeon. 

SALT  COD,  or  LING,  should  lie  in  wrater  for  at  least 
twelve  hours ;  sometimes  double  that  period  will  be  neces¬ 
sary  if  the  fish  be  very  salt,  the  wrater  being  changed  twTo  or 
three  times,  or  even  more :  indeed,  upon  its  being  wTell 
soaked,  so  that  much  of  the  salt  which  is  in  it  may  be  dis¬ 
solved  and  washed  out  depends  the,  goodness  of  tins  dish. 


BOILING. — SOLES,  CARP.  15 

Some  add  to  it,  while  in  soak,  a  few  ounces  of  vinegar,  it  is 
said,  to  get  out  the  salt ;  but  we  do  not  see  on  what  prin¬ 
ciple  this  is  done ;  however,  it  can  do  no  harm. 

The  fish  should  be  put  into  a  good  deal  of  cold  water,  and 
the  heat  under  the  kettle  be  gradually  raised  till  the  water 
approaches  the  boiling  point,  but  does  not  actually  boil ;  in 
this  state  it  should  be  kept  till  the  fish  is  done,  which  will 
be  known  by  its  readily  separating  into  flakes.  It  is  said, 
by  Count  Rumford,  that  the  great  art  of  boiling  salt  fish  in 
the  New  England  States  of  North  America  consists  in 
keeping  it  in  w7ater  scalding  hot  for  several  hours,  but  not 

)  actually  boiling.  By  such  means  the  salt  is,  no  doubt, 
most  effectually  abstracted,  and  the  fish  thus  becomes  a 
i  more  desirable  dish. 

(Salt  fish  should  be  served  up  with  boiled  parsnips  beaten 
fine  with  butter  or  cream,  and  poured  over  it ;  egg-sauce 
must  also  be  invariably  sent  up  with  it.  Parsnips  and  red 
i  beet-root  are  often  its  vegetable  accompaniments.  But  per- 
haps  egg-sauce  and  plain  vinegar  will  be  found,  with  a 
:  simple  potatoe,  the  best  coadjutors  to  this  after  all,  in  itself, 
but  ordinary  food.  It  is  a  bad  sign  when  any  article  de- 

Sstined  for  human  subsistence  requires  so  much  trouble,  or 
li  many  condiments  to  make  it  even  palatable. 

SOLES,  after  being  skinned,  gutted,  and  otherwise 
cleansed,  must  be  boiled  in  water  with  a  portion  of  salt,  for 
five  minutes,  or  more,  according  to  their  size.  They  should 
be  put  into  the  water  cold.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and 
curled  parsley,  fried  smelts,  and  oysters.  Send  them  up 
wdth  anchovy  sauce  and  plain  butter. 

A  sole  is  sometimes  boiled  in  w'hite  wine,  with  the  accom- 
!  paniments  of  sweet  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and 
lemon  cut  into  slices ;  but  it  is  an  expensive  dish,  worthy 
i  only  the  notice  of  a  gourmand. 

A  CARP,  being  scaled,  cleansed,  the  roe  taken  care  of, 
<  and  all  the  blood  saved,  should  be  put  into  boiling  water,  to 
:  which  add  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  four  ounces  of  salt,  and 
li1  some  horse-radish.  If  the  carp  be  large,  it  will  take  an 
:  hour’s  boiling.  Take  the  liver  clean  from  the  guts,  three 
anchovies,  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  and  an  onion ;  chop  them 
small ;  take  also  half  a  pint  of  Rhenish  wine,  four  spoonsful 
of  vinegar,  and  the  blood  of  the  carp  ;  stew  all  these  gently 
j  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  strain  the  liquor  off 


16 


BOILING. — FISH. 


for  sauce,  which  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Serve 
up  the  fish  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it.  Garnish  with 
the  roe  fried  and  horse-radish  and  lemon. 

Or  the  carp  may  be  boiled  in  water  and  vinegar,  with  salt, 
and  served  up  without  the  above  sauce ;  but,  instead,  par¬ 
sley  and  butter  may  be  sent  up  in  a  boat :  or  the  blood  and 
wine  may  be  omitted,  neither  of  them,  perhaps,  very  neces¬ 
sary,  and  a  sauce  made  of  the  remaining  ingredients. 

A  TROUT  is  boiled  in  water  and  vinegar,  with  salt  and 
horse-radish.  A  few  minutes  will  be  sufficient,  unless  it  is 
large.  Serve  it  up  with  white  sauce,  anchovy  sauce,  and 
plain  butter. 

A  PIKE,  or  JACK,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  is  most 
commonly  baked ;  but  it  "may  be  boiled  thus:  being  freed 
from  the  guts  and  gills,  and  well  washed,  care  being  taken 
not  to  cut  the  belly  quite  open,  in  order  that  it  may  contain 
the  stuffing ;  make  a  forced-meat  of  chopped  oysters,  the 
crumb  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  lemon-peel  shred  fine, 
four  ounces  of  butter,  (some  use  cream,)  the  yolk  of  two  or 
more  eggs,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg.  These  being  well  mixed  together,  put  them 
into  the  belly  of  the  fish,  which  must  be  sewed  and  skewered 
round.  Put  now  the  fish  into  boiling  water,  to  which  add 
a  teacup  of  vinegar  and  a  little  salt.  A  middle-sized  fish, 
that  is,  of  two  or  three  pounds,  will  require  about  half  an 
hour’s  boiling.  Serve  it  up  with  oyster- sauce  in  a  boat, 
having  poured  a  little  over  the  fish.  Garnish  with  pickled 
barberries  and  walnuts  ;  melted  butter  of  course. 

The  fish  may  be  boiled  without  the  forced-meat,  if  it  be 
so  preferred  ;  and,  indeed,  unsophisticated  taste  would  thus 
prefer  it. 

A  MULLET  is  boiled  like  a  salmon ;  but  as  it  is  a  small 
fish,  it  requires  a  few  minutes  only ;  fifteen  will  be  sufficient 
for  a  large  one.  It  is  served  up  with  shrimp  or  oyster  sauce. 

A  MACKAREL,  being  freed  from  the  entrails  and 
cleansed,  must  be  rubbed  with  vinegar  and  salt.  When 
the  water  boils,  put  in  the  fish,  to  wdiich  add  a  little 
salt :  fifteen  minutes  will  be  sufficient  for  one  of  a  moderate 
size.  Serve  it  up  with  fennel  and  parsley  chopped,  and 
mixed  with  melted  butter ;  gooseberry-sauce  is  sometimes 
added.  Garnish  with  horse-radish  and  barberries,  or  rather 
little  lumps  of  minced  fennel. 


BOILING. - FISH. 


17 


A  JOHN  DORY  being  a  choice  fish,  particular  care 
should  be  taken  in  dressing  it.  Let  it  be  put  into  cold 
water,  to  which  add  a  little  salt  and  vinegar ;  when  it 
begins  to  boil,  put  in  some  cold  water,  and  when  it  begins 
to  boil  again  add  a  little  more ;  then  let  it  simmer  for  a 
few  minutes  and  it  will  be  done;  or  it  may  be  boiled  like 
turbot,  which  see.  Serve  it  up  with  lobster  sauce  and 
melted  butter. 

HERRINGS  being  gutted,  cleansed,  and  dried,  rub 
them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar.  Skewer  their 
tails  in  their  mouths  and  put  them  into  boiling  water ;  in 
about  ten  minutes  they  will  be  done.  Serve  them  up  with 
melted  butter  and  parsley. 

FLOUNDERS,  PLAICE,  DABS,  and  OTHER 
FLAT  FISH  being  freed  from  the  fins,  gutted,  and  well 
cleansed,  the  brown  side  nicked  under  the  head,  are  dried 
.in  a  cloth,  and  then  immersed  in  boiling  water,  having  a 
small  portion  of  salt  in  it.  Some  salt  them  inside  and  out 
after  they  are  cleaned,  and  let  them  lie  two  hours  before 
they  are  dressed. 

Kitchener  orders  the  fish  to  be  put  into  cold  water; 
but  we  see  no  necessity  for  this,  The  time  of  boiling  must 
be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the  fish :  a  few  minutes  will  be 
sufficient  for  most  of  this  kind ;  when  the  fins  pull  out 
easily  they  are  done.  Serve  them  up  with  gravy  or  shrimp 
sauce  or  plain  melted  butter,  adding1,  of  course,  at  pleasure, 
catchup  or  cayenne  pepper;  this  last,  when  pure,  is  one  of 
the  most  wholesome  condiments  for  fsh  generally.  Gar- 
|  nish  with  red  cabbage. 

PERCH  AND  TENCH,  being  gutted  and  cleansed, 
must  be  put  into  cold  water,  to  which  add  some  salt :  a  few 
minutes,  ten  in  general,  suffice  to  boil  them.  Let  them  be 
served  up  with  melted  butter  and  soy  or  anchovy  sauce. 
Garnish  with  lemon  and  horse-radish. 

A  STURGEON,  being  properly  cleaned,  or  any  part 
of  it,  boil  it  in  a  liquor  prepared  in  the  following  manner, 
and  in  a  greater  or  less  quantity  in  proportion  to  the  size 
of  the  fish,  but  sufficient  to  cover  it  when  in  the  fish-kettle. 
Take  half  a  gallon  of  water  and  one  pint  of  vinegar ;  put 
into  this  liquor  two  or  three  bits  of  lemon  peel,  some  whole 
pepper,  and  a  stick  of  horse-radish  cut  into  thick  slices. 
Put  your  fish  into  this  liquor  when  it  boils;  when  the  bones 


I 


18 


BOILING. — FISH. 


separate  readily  from  the  fish  it  is  done ;  let  now  the  skin 
be  taken  off,  and  serve  it  up  with  melted  butter  having 
cavear  dissolved  in  it,  or  with  anchovy  sauce ;  the  contents 
of  the  body  of  a  crab  must  also  be  bruised  and  warmed  up 
with  the  butter,  or  else  a  few  shrimps  or  cray-fisli ;  add 
also  a  little  lemon  juice.  Garnish  with  fried  oysters,  sliced 
lemon,  and  horse-radish. 

Note,  that  some  direct  the  sturgeon,  after  it  is  cleaned, 
to  lie  in  water,  having  a  portion  of  salt  in  it,  for  one  night, 
and  then  to  be  rubbed  well  with  vinegar  before  it  is  boiled. 
This  may  be  useful  for  a  large  fish  ;  but  is  not  necessary 
for  a  small  one  or  for  small  pieces  of  it. 

We  give  the  above  directions  for  boiling  sturgeon,  but  it 
is  more  commonly  prepared  for  food  by  being  broiled. — 
See  Broiling. 

A  HADDOCK  wall  be  a  better  dish,  if,  after  being 
gutted  and  cleansed,  it  lie  in  salt  for  a  few  hours.  It 
should  be  boiled  in  water  with  salt,  as  directed  under  Cod. 
One  of  three  pounds’  weight  will  require  about  ten  minutes 
boiling.  Serve  with  plain  butter;  cayenne  pepper  and 
catchup  will  also  make  it  more  savoury.  Anchovy  sauce 
is  no  mean  adjunct  in  the  estimation  of  the  luxurious. 
Vinegar  is  a  much  more  wholesome  condiment. 

WHITINGS  AND  CODLINGS  require  similar  treat¬ 
ment  as  the  haddock ;  but  a  few  minutes  will  be  sufficient 
for  whiting,  which  requires  the  least  boiling  of  any  fish. 
The  same  condiments  as  the  haddock,  to  which  may  be 
added  oyster  sauce,  if  desired.  Codlings  are  a  very  excel¬ 
lent  and  nutritious  dish. 

SKATE,  THORNBACK,  and  MAIDS,  after  being 
gutted,  and  cleansed,  should  hang  at  least  one  day  before  : 
they  are  dressed ;  some  indeed  recommend  their  being  kept 
in  cold  weather  two  or  three  days.  They  may  be  then 
boiled  in  water  with  salt ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  be  in 
general  sufficient  for  a  moderately  sized  fish;  or  they  may 
be  cut  in  long  slips  crosswise  an  inch  broad  and  then 
boiled;  if  in  this  state,  they  will  take  much  less  time. 
But  the  best  way  of  dressing  these  fish  is  either  to  broil  or 
fry  them.  Serve  them  up  with  anchovy  sauce  and  plain  butter. 

EELS,  being  killed  by  dividing  the  bone  just  below  the 
head  and  afterwards  skinned  and  gutted,  and  the  heads 
cut  off,  must  be  boiled  in  water  with  a  little  salt.  When 


DRESSING  TURTLE. 


19 

they  begin  to  crack  they  are  done.  Serve  them  up  with 
parsley  and  butter.  The  liquor  in  which  eels  are  boiled, 
is  an  excellent  broth,  and  should  not  by  the  economist  be 
thrown  away. 

OYSTERS  may  be  boiled  in  water  with  salt  for  a  few 
minutes.  They  may  be  served  in  the  shells. 

A  TURTLE,*  of  thirty  pounds,  requires  the  following 
treatment.  It  must  be  killed  the  night  before  it  is  dressed 
by  cutting  off  the  head.  After  it  has  bled  two  or  three 
hours,  cut  off  the  fins  and  separate  the  under  shell 
(the  callipee )  from  the  upper  shell  (the  cullipash ) ;  in 
doing  this  be  careful  not  to  break  the  gall-bladder.  Throw 
all  the  entrails  into  cold  water,  keeping  the  guts  and  tripe 
by  themselves ;  both  these  must  be  opened  with  a  pen¬ 
knife  ;  wash  them  clean  in  scalding  water,  scrape  off  all 
the  inward  skin,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Wash 
them  again,  and  put  them  into  fresh  water,  and  let  them 
lie  in  it  all  night.  Scald  the  fins  and  the  edges  of  the 
callipee  and  callipasb.  Take  the  meat  off  the  shoulders 
and  break  the  bones ;  set  those  over  a  fire,  with  the  fins,  in 
about  a  quart  of  water,  into  which  put  a  little  salt,  cayenne 
pepper,  mace,  ,  and  nutmeg.  After  stewing  three  hours 
strain  it  and  put  the  fins  by  for  use.  The  next  morning 
chop  some  of  the  meat  cut  off  the  shoulders,  with  a  pound 
of  beef  or  veal  suet,  season  these  with  salt,  cayenne, 
parsley,  sweet  marjoram,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  half  a  pint 
-  of  Madeira  1  ine.  Stuff  this  under  the  fleshy  part  of  the 
meat,  and,  if  any  be  left,  lay  it  over  to  prevent  the  meat’s 
burning.  Cut  the  remainder  of  the  meat  and  fins  into 
pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  season  it  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  nutmeg ;  put  it  into  the  callipash  and  take 
1;  care  that  it  is  properly  sewed  and  secured  at  the  end,  that 
81  the  gravy  may  not  escape.  Take  now  the  gravy  prepared 
as  directed  above,  make  it  boiling  hot,  adding  to  it  wine 
ou  please,  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and  butter. 
Put  some  of  it  to  the  turtle,  which,  having  a  well-buttered 
118  paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  burning,  must  now  be  placed 
in  an  oven.  When  it  is  about  half  baked  squeeze  in  the 
to  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons  and  stir  it  about.  Two  hours 
tl 
ad 
M 


*  For  a  short  history  and  other  particulars  of  this  animal  see 
the  Introduction. 


20  BOILING.- — MOCK  TURTLE, 

will  bake  the  eallipee,  but  the  callipash  will  require  three. 
Cut  the  guts  in  pieces  two  or  three  inches  long,  the  tripe  in 
less  ;  put  them  into  a  little  water  and  set  them  in  the  oven 
with  the  callipash.  When  done  enough,  drain  them  from 
the  water  and  mix  them  with  the  other  parts.  Serve  the 
whole  up  as  hot  as  possible. 

Other  methods  of  dressing  turtle  are  described  in  the 
different  cookery  books  ;  there  is,  indeed,  scarcely  any  end 
to  the  varieties  of  dressing  this  animal ;  much  depends 
upon  its  size.  Of  one  method,  however,  called 

The  West- Indian  method,  it  is  necessary  to  observe  that 
in  this  the  following  directions  are  given.  The  night 
before  you  intend  to  dress  the  turtle,  take  it  out  of  the 
water  and  lay  it  on  its  back.  In  the  morning  cut  the 
head  off,  and  let  it  bleed  freely ;  then  cut  off  the  fins ; 
scald,  scale,  and  trim  them  and  the  head,  and  raise  the 
eallipee  ;  clean  it  well  leaving  on  as  much  meat  as  you  can. 
Take  from  the  callipash  all  the  meat  and  entrails,  except 
the  fat  which  looks  green  and  is  called  monsieur :  this 
must  also  be  baked  with  the  shell.  If  you  find  any  eggs 
boil  and  clean  them ;  but  if  you  do  not,  get  twelve  or  four¬ 
teen  yolks  of  hard  eggs ;  then  put  the  stew  (which  is  the 
callipash)  into  the  shell  with  the  eggs,  and  make  use  of  a 
salamander  or  put  it  into  the  oven  to  bake.  The  lights, 
heart,  and  liver,  are  also  directed  to  be  stewed  with  the 
callipash. 

It  is  not  necessary  that  we  should  detail  this  West- 
Indian  method  further.  But  we  may  just  observe  that 
the  turtle-soup  must  be  served  in  a  tureen ;  the  eallipee 
be  placed  at  the  head  of  the  turtle  and  the  callipash  at  the 
bottom ;  place  the  lights,  soup,  fins,  &c.  in  the  middle. 

MOCK  TURTLE. — -There  are  several  ways  of  preparing 
this  dish ;  the  following,  although  not  the  most  simple,  is, 
we  believe,  the  best,  and  therefore  it  is  here  given ;  if  a 
more  simple  dish  be  desired  the  ingenuity  of  the  cook  will 
readily  contrive  it. 

Put  a  large  calf’s  head  into  scalding  water,  and  let  it  re¬ 
main  there  till  the  hair  will  come  readily  off.  Cut  the  head 
in  half  and  clean  it  in  warm  water ;  then  boil  it  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  take  all  the  meat  and  skin  from 
the  bone  as  clean  as  possible,  and  be  careful  that  you  do  not 


21 


BOILING.  —  MOCK  TURTLE,  EGGS. 

break  the  ears ;  take  out  also  the  brain  and  set  it  by  to  be 
used  as  hereinfter  directed.  Lay  all  the  meat  on  a  Hat  dish ; 
stuff  the  ears  with  force-meat  and  tie  them  round  with 
cloths.  Take  out  the  eyes,  and  pick  all  the  meat  clean 
from  the  bones ;  put  it  into  a  tossing’-pan  -with  the  nicest 
and  fattest  part  of  another  calf’s  head  without  the  skin, 

;  boiled  as  long  as  the  above,  and  three  quarts  of  veal  gravy. 
Lay  the  skin  in  the  pan  on  the  meat  with  the  flesh-side  up, 
then  cover  the  pan  close  and  let  it  stew  one  hour  over  a 
moderate  fire.  Put  in  three  sweetbreads,  fried  to  a  white 
brown,  an  ounce  each  of  morels,  and  truffles,  five  artichoke 
bottoms  boiled,  an  anchovy  boned  and  chopped  small,  a 
small  quantity  of  cayenne,  a  little  salt,  half  a  lemon,  three 
pints  of  madeira  wine,  two  spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catchup, 
one  of  lemon-pickle,  half-a-pint  of  mushrooms,  and  stew  all 
slowly  half  an  hour  more  ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter. 
Take  now  the  yolk  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  the  brains 
of  both  heads  previously  boiled  ;  cut  the  brains  into  pieces 
of  the  size  of  nutmegs ;  make  a  rich  forcemeat  and  spread 
it  on  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal ;  roll  it  up  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
;  it  one  hour,  and  then  cut  it  into  three  parts,  the  middle  to 
*  be  the  largest.  Put  the  meat  into  the  dish  and  lay  the 
:  head  over  it,  the  skin-side  up.  Place  the  largest  piece  of 
I  forcemeat  between  the  ears  and  make  the  top  of  the  ears  to 
meet  round  it,  in  which  state  it  is  called  the  crown  of  the 
turtle.  Lay  the  other  slices  of  the  forcemeat  at  the  narrow 
end  opposite  to  each  other  and  lay  a  few  of  the  artichoke 
bottoms,  eggs,  mushrooms,  brains,  morels  and  truffles  upon 
the  face  and  round  it.  Strain  the  gravy  boiling  hot  upon  it, 
and  (as  it  soon  grows  cold)  be  as  quick  as  possible  in  dish¬ 
ing  it  up. 

A  much  cheaper  dish  than  this  may  be  made  with  two  or 
three  cow-heels  baked  with  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  gravy 
| ;  beef,  herbs,  &c. 

To  the  preceding  Directions  for  Boiling  we  may  add 
the  following  concerning  Eggs,  Suet,  &c.  The  cook  will 
have  occasion  in  the  course  of  her  practice  frequently  to 
refer  to  them. 

EGGS  require  various  times  for  being  boiled,  accordant 
with  their  size  and  kind  ;  duck  and  goose  eggs,  being  larger 
than  hens'  eggs,  will  of  course,  require  more  time,  pullets' 


BOILING. —  EGGS. 


22 

eggs  being  smaller  than  those  of  the  hen,  require  less. 
Duck  and  goose  eggs,  as  well  as  some  others  of  the  bird 
tribe,  are  of  a  stronger  taste  and  consequently  not  so  deli¬ 
cate  as  those  of  the  hen  ;  but  it  is  a  remarkable  fact,  as  far 
as  hitherto  the  eggs  of  birds  are  knowrn,  not  one  of  any  of 
the  tribe  is  absolutely  unwholesome.  As,  however,  when 
we  speak  of  eggs  we  usually  mean  hens'  eggs,  we  may  state 
that  the  time  of  boiling  eggs,  in  the  shell,  must  vary  with 
the  taste  of  the  person  desiring  them ;  some  choose  them 
boiled  (they  should  always  be  put  in  when  the  water  is 
boiling)  only  two  minutes  ;  others  three  or  four ;  some  will 
have  them  boil  even  five  minutes ;  but  this  last  period 
makes  both  the  yolk  and  white  less  suitable  for  the  stomach : 
perhaps  three  minutes  and  a  half  will  be  the  most  agree¬ 
able  to  the  generality  of  persons.  If  for  salads,  an  egg 
may  be  boiled  five  minutes,  or  even  more  ;  but  all  hard 
boiled  eggs  are  more  or  less  unwholesome  even  in  salads. 
No  wonder  therefore  that  our  gourmands  complain  now  and 
then  of  indigestion  !  The  Italian  addition  of  oil  to  salads 
is  to  be  preferred  to  the  hard  boiled  egg. 

POACHED  EGGS. — Your  water  being  boiling,  or  rather 
simmering  in  a  stewpan,  slip  in  carefully  each  egg  previously 
obtained  from  the  shell  and  poured  into  a  tea-cup,  preserv¬ 
ing  the  yolk  undisturbed ;  when  the  white  is  coagulated, 
which  it  will  be  in  about  two,  or  at  most,  three  minutes, 
they  are  done.  They  may  be  served  up  in  various  ways : 
on  bread  slightly  toasted  or  spinach  is  the  most  common. 
The  bread  should  be  cut  into  squares  and  an  egg  placed  on 
each ;  the  spinach  after  being  boiled  must  be  pressed  and 
cut  into  triangular  pieces,  upon  one  of  each  an  egg  must  be 
placed.  Melted  butter  in  a  boat  of  course.  You  may  gar¬ 
nish  if  you  please  with  fried  or  boiled  bacon,  or  pork  sau¬ 
sages. 

Note  that  this  is,  we  believe,  the  most  wholesome  method 
of  dressing  eggs,  next  to  that  of  beating  a  raw  one  up 
with  a  glass  of  good  madeira  and  a  little  sugar. 

To  PURIFY  SUET,  LARD,  MARROW,  DRIPPING, 
BUTTER,  and  other  FAT. — The  suet  or  marrow  being 
separated  as  much  as  possible  from  the  membranes  and 
blood-vessels,  and  afterwards  well  washed,  must  be  cut  into 
small  pieces  ;  indeed,  if  chopped  fine  it  will  be  better  ;  put 


METHODS  OF  PURIFYING  SUET,  LARD,  &C.  23 

it  into  a  saucepan  or  stewpan  with  some  water  and  set  it 
over  a  slow  fire  to  boil  for  an  hour  or  more,  when  the  water 
will  be  nearly  evaporated ;  the  additional  heat  applied  to 
the  fat  in  consequence  of  the  evaporation  of  the  water  will 
cause  a  separation  of  the  membranes  from  it. 

Note,  the  water  is  employed  to  moderate  the  heat,  as, 
while  any  remains,  the  fat  does  not  become  hotter  than  the 
heat  of  boiling1  water,  namely,  the  degree  of  212  of  Fahren¬ 
heit’s  thermometer ;  care  must,  therefore,  be  taken  that  the 
heat  administered  to  the  fat,  after  the  evaporation  of  the 
water,  be  not  too  great,  nor  continued  too  long,  or  a  burnt 
taste  will  be  communicated  to  it :  it  is  necessary,  however, 
that,  for  a  short  time  at  least,  more  heat  should  be  applied 
to  the  fat  than  that  of  boiling  water,  or  the  membranes 
will  be  incompletely  detached.  Large  quantities  will  re¬ 
quire  more  time  than  above  specified. 

Note,  the  above  process  may  be  applied  equally  to  beef, 
mutton,  deer  suet,  marrow,*  and  lard,  as  well  as  indeed  to 
all  animal  fat  involved  in  membranes :  marrow  will  require 
more  water  than  the  rest  and  less  heat.  But — 

DRIPPING  and  other  melted  fats  require  another  pro¬ 
cess  of  purification.  Dripping  in  particular  has  ahvays 
more  or  less  impurity  attached  to  it,  which  simple  melting 
and  boiling  in  water,  with  skimming  off  what  impurities 
arise  to  the  surface  during  the  boiling,  will  generally  re¬ 
move.  After  which  it  must  be  set  by  with  the  water  in  a 
proper  vessel  to  cool ;  when  cold,  it  may  be  readily  detached 
from  the  water  and  impurities  beneath. 

FRESH  BUTTER  may  be  freed  from  most  of  the 
butter-milk,  &c.  which  it  contains,  by  subjecting  it  to  a 
heat  of  about  that  of  boiling  water  in  a  proper  vessel,  that 
is,  in  a  water-bath,  for  three,  four,  or  more  hours  ;  it  must 
be  then  suffered  to  cool,  and  when  cold  it  must  be  taken 
out ;  the  chief  of  its  impurities  will  be  found  at  the  bottom 

3 

*  Marrow,  instead  of  being  treated  as  above  directed,  is  sometimes 
ordered  to  be  broken  into  pieces,  and  soaked  in  water  for  ten  days 
successively,  changing  the  water  every  day  ;  and  then  used  for  the 
purposes  for  which  it  may  be  wanted  :  this  has  been  particularly 
ordered  by  those  benevolent  Lady  Bountifuls  who  formerly  gave  us 
directions  for  the  preparation  of  Pomade  Divine.  But  this  operose 
manipulation  is  not  necessary.  See  our  Chapter  on  Gruels,  &c. 


24 


METHOD  OF  PURIFYING  BUTTER. 


of  the  vessel ;  another  small  portion  of  them  in  a  sort  of 
froth  at  the  top ;  both  must  be  separated  from  the  hard 
butter  which  now  assumes  the  appearance  of  a  yellowish 
soft  suet,  and  will  be  found  more  applicable  to  the  pur¬ 
poses  of  frying  than  fresh  butter.  We  shall  have  occasion 
to  revert  to  this  under  the  term  of  Clarified  Butter. 

Note. — Instead  of  the  heat  of  a  water-bath,  that  of  an 
oven  ( when  moderate )  or  even  the  hob  of  a  fire-place 
may  be  employed  ;  but  it  must  be  continued  for  some 
hours. 

SALT  BUTTER  may  be  freed  from  a  considerable  por¬ 
tion  of  its  salt  by  boiling-  with  water  as  directed  for  drip¬ 
ping  ;  but  care  must  be  taken  to  employ  not  only  a  good 
deal  of  water  but  a  gentle  heat.  It  is  to  be  lamented  how¬ 
ever  that  no  process  hitherto  discovered  will  restore  the  par¬ 
ticular  and  beautiful  taste  which  fresh  butter  has  when  it 
has  once  lost  it.  The  chemists  indeed  recommend  its  being 
treated  with  rectified  spirit  of  wine ;  but  this  is  so  expen¬ 
sive  that  nobody  thinks  of  using  it ;  and,  besides,  we  do  not 
believe  that  any  process  whatever  will  completely  restore 
the  delicate  taste  of  good  fresh  butter  when  once  it  is  lost. 

Instead  of  the  processes  above  directed  for  the  purifica¬ 
tion  of  suet,  &c.  some  order  it  to  be  cut  in  pieces,  placed  in 
a  jar,  and  submitted  for  some  hours  to  the  low  heat  of  an  il 
oven  or  a  stove ;  but  this  method  is  tedious  ;  and  the  uncer¬ 
tain  application  of  the  heat  must  always  render  it  unde¬ 
sirable,  more  especially  when  the  other  methods  above 
directed  are  at  once  simple  and  obvious ;  in  the  large  way 
it  would  be  quite  impossible  to  practice  it,  as  in  the  purifi¬ 
cation  of  lard  for  example. 


25 


CHAPTER  II. 

SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


In  this  department  of  our  state, 

At  early  morn,  at  dinner  late. 

That  Soups  and  Broths  be  made  the  best. 
Be  this  upon  you  well  impress’d  ; 

Of  numerous  condiments  beware, 
However  costly,  rich,  or  rare  ; 

Simplicity  aye  keep  in  view. 

And  honours  will  attend  on  you. 


General  Observations.— In  the  preparation  of 
bours  some  of  the  observations  under  Boiling  must  be 
attended  to,  which  need  not  be  here  repeated.  All  soups 
should  be  closely  covered  during  their  boiling,  by  which  the 
iheat  will  be  very  much  economized.  There  might  be,  how¬ 
ever,  occasionally  some  deviations  from  this  course  ’which 
must  depend  upon  the  discretion  of  the  cook.  In  makino- 
soups  and  broths  stale  as  well  as  fat  meat  should  be  avoided* 
the  nrst  will  impart  an  ill  taste,  and  the  last  will  be  attended 
with  considerable  waste.  Where,  however,  it  is  desired  to 
retain  the  fat  in  the  soup  and  yet  prevent  its  floating  upon 
he  surface,  a  teacup-full  of  flour  and  water  well  mixed  and 
boiled  up  with  the  soup  will  make  the  dish  more  sio-htly  • 
mt  what  is  said  in  a  preceding  note  concerning  flour  in 
nelted  butter  should  be  attended  to  in  the  making  of  soups  * 
nstead  of  flour  a  pure  starch  for  thickening  soups  if 
dnckening  be  desired,  is  much  better  and  more  wholesome, 
the  best  meat  soups  are  beyond  question  those  which  are 
nade  from  the  lean  alone  without  much  if  any  fat. 

In  making  pease  soup  with  dry  pease  soft  water  should 

I  ^secl  >  Wlth  green  pease  hard  water,  which  contributes 
P  the  preservation  of  their  colour. 

The  time  required  for  the  preparation  of  soups  by  boilino- 
■anes  ;  but,  in  general,  three  hours  or  more  will  be  neces- 
ary  ;  six  hours  may,  sometimes,  not  be  too  much. 

A  soup  should  never  be  permitted  to  grow  cold  in  the 
essel  in  which  it  has  been  boiled.  lEnot  immediately 


26  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

wanted  it  should  be  poured  out  into  a  clean  pan  ;  one  made 
of  stone-ware  is  the  best,  as  neither  salt  nor  acids  wdl  act 
upon  it,  a  consideration  of  essential  importance  in  all  cookery. 
While  cooling  the  soup  should  not  be  covered  over ;  nor 
indeed  is  it  desirable  to  cover  soup  after  it  is  cold,  except 
with  a  hair  sieve. 

As  long  boiling  is  necessary  to  make  good  soup,  particu¬ 
larly  where  the  whole  or  the  greater  part  of  the  virtues  of 
butchers’  meat  are  to  be  extracted,  it  will  be  necessaiy  to 
add  more  water  from  time  to  time  as  it  boils  away ;  and,  in 
order  to  save  time,  it  will  he  best  to  add  the  water  boiling  or, 
at  least,  very  hot  to  the  soup.  In  the  addition  of  herbs, 
other  vegetables  or  condiments,  care  should  be  taken  that 
they  are  in  such  quantities  that  no  one  may  predominate, 
unless,  as  is  sometimes  the  case  with  celery  or  onion,  it  is 

desired  to  be  so.  J 

As  celery  is  so  generally  used  to  flavour  soups  the  cook 
should  know  that,  when  the  root  is  scarce,  the  seeds,  bruised 
and  added  to  the  soup  a  few  minutes  only  before  it  is  served 
up  will  flavour  it  very  elegantly  ;  indeed  the  seeds  will  be 
generally  found  superior  to  the  root  for  the  purpose  of 
flavour.  It  should  not  be  forgotten  however  that  boiling  the 
seeds  for  a  long  time  will  dissipate  their  essential  oil  on 
which  their  flavour  chiefly  depends.  This  observation  ap¬ 
plies  with  equal  force  to  all  the  spices,  the  long  boiling  of 
which  in  open  vessels  must  necessarily  dissipate  theii  oils  in 
which  their  good  qualities  reside:  indeed  sometimes  a  few 
drops  of  their  essential  oil,  as  of  cinnamon  or  cassia,  will  j 
supply  very  elegantly  the  place  of  the  spice  itself.  The 
same  may  be  said  also  of  horse-radish  root,  a  very  whole¬ 
some  condiment,  and  not  so  often  employed  in  soups  and  \ 
other  cookery  as  it  deserves  to  be  ;  we  have  particularly  di- 
rected  it  in  pease  soup  ;  the  best  way  to  impart  its  virtues 
to  which  and  other  boiled  dishes  is  to  cut  it  into  smal 
shavings  and  boil  it  for  a  short  time  with  the  soup,  jusi 
before  it  is  ready  to  be  served  up. 

When  spices  are  directed  to  be  employed,  cloves,  mace 
cinnamon,  cassia,  nutmegs,  and  sometimes  allspice  are  in¬ 
cluded  ;  pepper  is  usually  mentioned  separately ;  so  also  if 
cayenne  pepper,  ■which  to  fish  in  particular,  when  to  be  ob 
tained  genuine,  is  an  excellent  addition ;  of  ginger  on 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


27 


cooks  and  cookery-books  seem  to  be  sparine-  •  but  added  to 

beaW,aubettTr-b'lteS  ‘,° theh'  whole“m°  "o®  ;  it  should 
is  ST  at*be.tabIe  ln  P°wder  similarly  to  black  pepper-  it 

puddlrlm  to  d  in  fding  "aTOUr  t0  »PPl«  P«  and 

subm  l’i  theSait  ou8'ht  to  be  added  before  they  are 

submitted  to  heat.  We  shall  refer  to  these  observations  in 
the  subsequent  portions  of  our  work.  nervations  m 

cernW^l t0  Broths^ome  of  the  general  directions  con¬ 
cerning  Boding  must  be  carefully  attended  to,  as  well  as 

Broth™6  hS  °“°nS  °n  the  PreParation  of  soups. 

ofanySno-^b  w  the  pieces  of  meat  and 

meat  and  f  ’  ft  ^  the  Water  to  the  quantity  of 

tTe  men^h  yiAUR  !nt  b°lhn§‘-  T°  make  the  broth  good 

separate  whb  t  r*  ^Ied  m  ifc  is  tender  and  will 
asPu-oll  ?;  hT  difficulty  from  the  bones.  In  every  case 

least  boilfno-  h  T  01  S°Up’  ?  °rder  to  obtain  them  with  the’ 
sho , £  S\  1  COnse(luentl 7  m°st  economically,  the  meat 
shou  d  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  the  bones,  if  laiS  broken 
and  the  joints,  such  as  those  in  a  neck  of  mutton  separated’ 

:  "Jjjf8  tbe  meat  ^  wanted  to  be  served  up  with  the  broth  or 

lh™  "  !  Wh°le h  “  alS0  advisable  to  us 
pJent)  of  water,  and  to  let  it  escape  durino-  the  boilino-- 

tained  tU6R  °rt th®  mea„wi11  be  tbus  most  effectually  ob- 
l?°d-  Broths  as  well  as  soups  should  be  frequently 
skimmed  during  their  boiling.  ^ 

oatm°erdCOnTiCal  pUrp°SeS  br0th  is  generally  thickened  with 
oatmeal,  and  sometimes  milk  is  added  to  if  but  a  more 

elegant  method  is  to  thicken  it  with  rice,  Scotch  or  pearl 

brotlf’  °ffia-C,Tt  °!  breafL  Tbese  shouId  be  boiled  in  the 
broth  sufficiently  long  to  be  tender :  they  are  sometimes 

eBrodls  til'  6aten  rh  ,the  br°th  With0ut  being  strained. 
Broths  are  flavoured  with  various  things:  parsley  is  one 

of  the  most  common;  leeks,  onions,  petals  of  mario-old- 

iThe^V  M  (  !brn,ie  bave  also  tbeir  advocates;  salt  of  course 

bm  hTvt  •  ehght  ",  "  1Ump  °f  Cheese  Solved  in  the 
Drotn  when  it  is  served  up ! 

is  waited  thifbert]b|y  t0°  fo1  after  bcing  before  it 

nted,  it  should  not  be  covered  during;  its  coolino-  • 

fullTtak A’  tffmape  ^  re  de!icate  tbe  fat  should  be  care- 
y  aken  ofl.  _  For  the  implements  to  be  employed  in 

making  soups  and  broths,  see  the  Introduction. 

c  2 


28 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


These  general  directions  will  be  sufficient  for  the  making 
of  any  soups  or  broths  :  a  few  forms  of  some  of  the  most 
useful  we  shall  notwithstanding  give. 

Colour  for  Soups  and  Sauces,  sometimes  called 
Browning. — We  give  the  following,  not  because  we 
approve  of  it,  but  because  there  is  a  silly  fashion  of  giving 
to  soups  and  gravies  a  colour  which  they  do  not  naturally 
possess :  burnt  sugar  cannot  add  to  the  wholesomeness  of  any 
food  ;  it  may  be  and  is,  no  doubt,  sometimes  injurious  to  it. 

Put  four  ounces  of  fine  raw  sugar,  or  if  you  choose 
powdered  lump  sugar,  into  a  frying-pan  with  two  ounces 
of  water ;  set  the  pan  on  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  the  mixture 
with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  becomes  of  a  dark  colour ;  skim 
it  during  the  boiling ;  strain  it  and  put  it  by  for  use.  To 
this  is  sometimes  added  port  wine,  butter,  spices  of  various 
kinds,  shalots,  catchup,  salt,  and  the  whole  rind  of  one 
lemon  ! ! 

BEEF  STOCK. — Take  lean  beef,  cut  it  in  pieces, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  with  water 
enough  to  cover  it;  add  to  it  some  parsley,  thyme,  scraped 
carrots,  onions,  a  turnip,  celery,  and  a  little  salt.  Boil 
till  the  meat  is  tender,  taking  care  to  skim  it  well  durino- 
the  boiling ;  lastly,  skim  off  the  fat  and  strain  the  stock 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve. 

VEAL  STOCK. — Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  pound  of 
lean  ham,  or  of  a  gammon  of  bacon  ;  let  them  be  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  boiled  with  two  or  three  scraped  carrots, 
a  turnip,  some  celery,  and  onions  sliced  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  till  the  meat  is  nearly  done ;  then  add  of  beef  stock 
enough  to  cover  the  whole,  which  boil  for  half  an  hour 
more;  skim  off  the  fat  carefully  and  strain. 

CLEAR  BROWN  STOCK.— To  three  quarts  of  veal  I 
stock  add  a  small  quantity  of  the  colour  for  soups,  de¬ 
scribed  above ;  season  it  with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne ; 
beat  up  two  eggs  with  their  shells  ;  mix  the  whole  -well 
together ;  boil  it  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and  strain  it 
through  a  fine  cloth. 

TURTLE  SOUP. — We  give  no  form  for  the  preparation 
of  this  soup,  because  it  is  essentially  that  for  the-  dressing 
of  turtle,  to  which,  therefore,  under  Boiling,  page  19,  the 
reader  will  of  course  refer. 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


29 


MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. — A  form  for  the  preparation 
of  this  is  here  not  given  for  the  same  reason  as  that  in  the 
preceding-  article.  The  reader  will,  therefore,  refer  to 
Mock  Turtle,  page  20. 

WHITE  VERMICELLI  SOUP.— Boil  for  fifteen  mi¬ 
nutes  three  quarts  of  veal  stock  with  two  ounces  of  vermi¬ 
celli,  and  then  rub  it  through  a  fine  cloth  ;  season  it  with 
salt,  and  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  half  a  pint  of 
cream  mixed  well  together.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  and 
serve  it. 

Observe  here,  that  the  yolks  of  eggs,  how  nutricious 
soever  they  may  be,  contain  a  considerable  quantity  of 
sulphur ;  and  that  in  many  stomachs,  after  being  eaten,  a 
quantity  of  sulphuretted  hydrogen  gas  becomes  disengaged, 
producing  distention  and  other  unpleasant  consequences. 
No  wonder,  therefore,  that  such  made  dishes  lead  many 
dyspeptic  consequences  in  their  train ;  and  no  wonder  that 
the  luxurious  are  often  unwell  after  feeding  on  such  fare ; 
the  simplicities  of  nature  cannot  be  thus  infringed  upon 
with  impunity.  We  shall  have  occasion  to  refer  to  this 
observation  more  than  once  in  the  progress  of  our  work. — 
See  the  Family  Cyclopedia,  page  xii.  J.  J. 

WHITE  SOUP. — Put  a  knuckle  of  veal,  with  a  large 
fowl,  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  half  a  pound  of  rice,  a  few 
pepper-corns,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  two  or  three  onions, 
and  three  or  four  heads  of  celery  sliced,  into  six  quarts  of 
water,  and  stew  them  till  the  soup  is  as  strong  as  you  wish ; 
strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  an  earthen  pan ;  let  it 
stand  all  night;  the  next  day  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  to 
which  add  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  first  blanched 
and  beaten  fine  ;  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  again 
!  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  ;  lastly,  put  in  a  pint  of 
!  cream,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  stir  all  together ;  let  it 
boil  a  few  minutes,  when  it  may  be  served  up. 

Observe ,  that  the  cream  here,  as  in  the  preceding  soup, 
j  contributes  both  to  the  whiteness  and  richness  of  the  soup ; 
but,  on  the  score  of  wholesomeness,  it,  as  well  as  the  egg, 
is  a  questionable  ingredient. 

GRAVY  SOUP.  Boil  a  shin  of  beef,  the  bone  being 
|  well  chopped,  a  pint  of  peas,  and  six  onions,  in  six  quarts 
1  of  water,  till  all  the  soluble  parts  of  the  meat  be  extracted ; 


30 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


then  strain  it  off,  and  add  to  it  a  quart  of  strong  gravy ;  for 
which  see  our  Chapter  on  Sauces,  Gravies,  &c.  Season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  a  little  celery  and 
beet-leaves ;  boil  till  the  vegetables  are  tender,  and  it  is 
done. 

OX-CHEEK  SOUP.  The  bones  being  broken  and  the 
cheek  washed  thoroughly  clean,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
about  two  ounces  of  butter  at  the  bottom,  laying  the  fleshy 
side  of  the  cheek  downwards.  Add  also^half  a  pound  of 
lean  ham  sliced,  four  heads  of  celery  cut  small,  three  large 
onions,  two  carrots,  and  one  parsnip,  all  sliced,  and  three 
blades  of  mace.  Set  them  over  a  moderate  fire  for  about 
fifteen  minutes ;  after  which  put  in  four  quarts  of  water 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  reduced  to  two.  If  this  is  to  be 
used  as  soup  only,  strain  it  off,  and  put  in  the  white  part  of 
a  head  of  celery  cut  into  small  pieces,  with  a  little  browning 
to  give  it  a  good  colour.  Lastly,  scald  two  ounces  of  ver¬ 
micelli,  put  it  into  the  soup,  boil  for  about  ten  minutes,  and 
then  pour  it  into  a  tureen,  with  the  crust  of  a  French  roll, 
and  serve  it  up. 

If  it  be  used  as  a  stew,  take  up  the  cheek  as  whole  as  pos¬ 
sible,  and  have  ready  a  boiled  turnip  and  a  carrot  cut  into 
square  pieces,  some  bread  toasted  and  cut  into  small  dice ; 
add  a  little  cayenne ;  strain  the  soup  through  a  hair  sieve 
upon  the  meat,  and  serve  it  up. 

Observe,  that  this  soup,  besides  being  more  simple, 
would  be  more  w'holesome  wdthout  the  ham,  the  browning , 
or  the  vermicelli;  of  course,  its  flavour,  by  the  abstraction 
of  these,  will  be  altered. 

MACARONI  SOUP.  Take  half  a  pound  of  small  pipe 
macaroni  and  boil  it  in  three  quarts  of  water,  till  it  is  tender; 
strain  the  water  off  and  cut  the  macaroni  into  pieces  of  about 
two  inches  long.  Mix  now  three  quarts  of  strong  broth  and 
one  of  gravy  together,  into  which  put  the  macaroni,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes ;  put  the  crust  of  a  French  roll  baked 
into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  on  it.  Some  add  cream 
and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  this,  perhaps,  somewhat 
un-English  dish. 

PEASE  SOUP.  To  the  liquor  in  which  eitherpork  or  beef 
has  been  boiled  add  whole  or  split  peas,  in  the  proportion  of 
one  pint  to  half  a  gallon  of  the  liquor,  some  roast  beef  bones, 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


31 


and  a  little  lean  bacon  ;  simmer  the  whole  together  till  the 
peas  can  be  passed  through  a  colander  with  the  assistance  of 
a  wooden  spoon.  This  being  done,  add  a  stick  of  celery,  or 
of  horse-radish,  or  of  both,  cut  into  pieces,  a  carrot  or  two, 
a  turnip,  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  gently  till  all  is  become 
tender.  Serve  it  up  poured  upon  fried  or  toasted  bread  cut 
into  dice.  When  the  peas  boil  well,  some  economical  per¬ 
sons  do  not  strain  this  soup. 

A  still  richer  soup  may  he  made  by  using  lean  beef  cut 
into  pieces,  in  place  of  the  pot-liquor  and  hones  ;  to  the  beef 
some  add  ham  and  veal  and  pickled  pork.  Note,  that 
horse-radish  is  an  excellent  and  wholesome  condiment,  and 
maybe  used  in  pease-soup  with  advantage. 

If  no  pork  or  beef  liquor  can  be  obtained,  the  peas  must, 

J  of  course,  be  boiled  in  pure  water;  but  the  soup  will  not  be 
so  good . 

GREEN  PEASE  SOUP.  When  you  shell  your  peas, 
separate  the  young  from  the  old.  Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
the  old  ones  in  water  till  they  are  tender  ;  pour  off  the  liquor 
and  reserve  it;  beat  the  boiled  peas  to  a  mash,  and  then 
put  them  into  two  quarts  of  the  reserved  liquor.  Boil  also 
half  a  pint  of  the  young  peas  in  water  till  they  are  soft. 
Mix  the  water  and  peas  thus  boiled  with  the  preceding,  stir 
all  together  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Lastly,  rub  it 
through  a  hair  sieve. 

This  will  make  a  good  plain  green  pease  soup ;  it  may, 
of  course,  be  seasoned  with  various  things ;  such  as  salt, 
pepper,  celery,  onions,  spices,  and  herbs.  In  order  to  in¬ 
crease  its  greenness,  the  juice  of  spinach  may  be  added  to  it 
by  pounding  the  leaves  and  pressing  the  juice  out  from  a 
cloth  ;  but  this  is  a  silly  addition.  Butter  is  also  sometimes 
added  to  this  soup ;  to  make  it  richer  and  more  nutritious, 
instead  of  boiling  the  peas  in  water,  they  may  be  boiled  in 
plain  veal  or  mutton  broth. 

SOUP  MAIGRE.  Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  shake  it,  and  add  six  middle-sized  onions ;  shake 
again  for  five  minutes  ;  then  put  in  five  heads  of  celery,  two 
handfuls  of  spinach,  a  cabbage  lettuce,  and  some  parsley,  all 
cut  fine.  Shake  these  well  in  the  pan  over  the  fire  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
some  crusts  of  bread,  a  teaspoonful  of  bruised  pepper  and 


32 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


three  or  four  blades  of  mace.  Boil  gently  for  an  hour  ;  then 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  them  in  adding  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar. 

A  pint  of  green  peas  boiled  in  this  soup  will  be  an  ex¬ 
cellent  addition  to  it :  or  a  pint  of  green  peas  may  be  fried, 
with  three  ounces  of  butter,  a  large  onion,  a  turnip,  a 
carrot,  and  a  head  of  celery,  all  sliced,  in  a  stewrpan  till  they 
are  browned;  then  pour  on  them  two  quarts  of  boiling  water; 
let  the  whole  simmer  till  it  can  be  passed  through  a  hair 
sieve.  It  may  be  seasoned  at  pleasure  with  celery,  pep¬ 
per,  &c. 

Observe  what  is  said  in  regard  to  eggs  in  the  directions 
for  making  vermicelli  soup. 

HARE  SOUP.  Cut  a  hare,  if  old  it  will  answer 
equally  well,  into  pieces ;  put  it  into  a  mug-  with  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  two  large  onions,  a  red  herring, 
six  morels,  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  three  quarts  of  water ; 
let  the  whole  be  closely  covered  and  then  baked  three  hours 
in  a  quick  oven,  after  which  strain  the  soup  into  a  tossing- 
pan.  Have  ready  boiled  in  water  four  ounces  of  pearl- 
barley  or  sago;  put  the  liver  of  the  hare,  for  two  minutes, 
into  scalding  water,  and  then  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve 
with  a  wooden  §poon ;  put  it  into  the  soup  with  the  barley 
or  sago,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  set  it  over  the 
fire  and  keep  it  stirring,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Or,  instead  of  baking  it,  the  mug  may  be  placed  in  a 
kettle  of  water,  which  must  be  kept  boiling  for  three  hours. 
The  red  wine  may,  if  you  choose,  be  omitted,  and  a  pound 
of  lean  beef  cut  in  pieces  be  added  instead,  which  will 
much  improve  the  nutritious  quality  of  the  soup.  Lean 
bacon  or  ham  is  also  sometimes  added  to  give  it  flavour; 
anchovy,  soy,  and  cayenne,  may  be  put  in  at  pleasure.  We 
may  add  that  the  red  herring  may  be  omitted  without  dis¬ 
advantage  to  the  soup,  which  may  be  served  up  with  force¬ 
meat  balls  in  the  tureen  ;  or  some  crisped  bread  may  be  put 
in  the  tureen  and  the  soup  poured  on  it. 

In  the  same  manner  may  be  made  a  soup  from  rabbits 
and  partridges.  Note,  that  cold  roasted  hare  will  also 
make  good  soup. 

A  CHEAP  SOUP.  Boil  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  a 
few  onions,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  half  a  pint  of  split-peas,  a 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


33 


nead  of  celery,  and  a  little  pepper,  in  four  quarts  of  water, 
for  three  or  more  hours.  When  done,  pass  the  soup  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  then  add  some  dried  mint  and  fried  or 
toasted  bread. 

Note ,  that  some  will  add  to  the  above  ingredients  a  red- 
herring,  which  will  add  to  the  flavour,  but  little  to  its  nutri¬ 
tious  properties. 

PORTABLE  SOUP.  Boil  four  calves’  feet  and  a  leg 
of  beef  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  for  two  hours,  and 
during  the  boiling-,  let  the  skum  be  taken  off ;  after  which 
let  the  soup  be  separated  from  the  meat  by  straining  and 
pressing  ;  boil  now  the  meat  a  second  time  in  another  water, 
adding  celery,  pepper,  &c.  as  you  may  choose  for  flavour. 
The  two  decoctions  being  added  together,  must  now  be  left 
to  cool,  in  order  that  the  fat  may  congeal,  and  thus  be  care¬ 
fully  separated.  The  soup  must  now  be  clarifled,  b}^  being- 
mixed  with  the  -whites  of  six  eggs  and  again  boiled ;  the 
skum  which  arises  being,  of  course,  taken  off.  The  liquor 
must  then  be  strained  through  flannel  and  boiled  down  to  a 
thick  paste,  being  constantly  stirred  during  the  operation  ; 
after  which  it  must  be  spread  upon  smooth  stones  and  then 
be  cut  into  square  cakes.  Lastly,  let  them  be  dried  in  a 
stove  till  they  become  brittle ;  or  instead  of  laying  the  soup 
on  stones,  it  may  be  poured  into  moulds  of  any  desired  form. 
Any  part  of  beef  ,  veal ,  or  mutton ,  which  contains  much 
gelatine,  may  be  used  for  this  soup.  When  it  is  to  be 
used,  dissolve  it  in  boiling  water,  and  add,  at  pleasure,  salt 
and  other  seasoning. 

Observe,  that  it  is  not  desirable  to  employ  any  salt  in 
the  making  of  this  soup,  as  salt  absorbs  moisture  from  the 
air,  and  would,  if  added  to  it,  render  it  liable  to  g-et  soft, 
and  more  likely  to  spoil;  it  should  be  kept  as  dry  and  hard 
as  possible. 

GIBLET-SOUP  is  made  by  stewing-  duck  or  goose  gib¬ 
lets  in  veal  stock,  adding  onions,  herbs,  pepper,  mace,  &c. 
The  bones  should  be  broken,  the  neck  and  gizzard  cut  in 
pieces,  and  the  heads  split  in  two.  They  must  be  stewed 
till  quite  tender,  and  be  served  up  with  egg  and  force-meat 
balls.  Or  the  giblets  may  be  boiled  in  water  till  tender, 
and  the  soup  be  thickened  with  flour  and  butter  ;  add  to 
the  soup  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  tablespoonful  of  catchup,. 

c  3 


34 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 


Concerning  the  use  of  flour,  see  the  note  in  page  7. 

OX-FEET  JELLY  AND  SOUP.  After  well  washing, 
slit  the  ox-heels  in  two,  and  remove  the  fat  between  the 
claws;  boil  them  in  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart 
to  each  heel.  Six  or  eight  hours  will  be  necessary  to  extract 
all  the  gelatine;  and  if,  during  the  boiling,  the  water 
becomes  much  diminished,  more  hot  w’ater  should  be  added 
to  it ;  it  should  be  well  skimmed  during  the  operation. 
Strain  for  use.  One  ox-heel  will  make  a  pint  and  half  of 
jelly  ;  it  may  be  used  for  various  purposes.  Or  it  may  be 
made  with  proper  seasonings  into  ox-heel  soup. 

Note,  that  care  should  be  taken  in  obtaining  the  heels 
that  the  jelly  has  not  been  already  extracted  from  them  : 
those  to  be  obtained  at  the  tripe-shops  cannot  be  always 
recommended. 

OX-TAIL-SOUP  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
preceding,  taking  care,  of  course,  to  separate  the  bones 
into  many  portions  before  submitting  them  to  be  boiled. 

GAME-SOUP  may  be  made  from  cold  g-ame  of  any 
kind,  by  breaking  the  bones,  cutting  the  meat  in  pieces, 
and  boiling  both  in  broth  for  an  hour  or  more.  It  may  be 
thickened  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  some  cream,  and 
seasoned  according  to  your  fancy,  care  being  taken  that 
the  soup  is  not  boiled  after  the  eggs  are  mixed  with  it,  as 
boiling  will  cause  the  soup  to  curdle.  See,  in  regard  to 
the  eggs,  -what  is  said  under  White  Vermicelli  Soup, 
page  29. 

STOCK  FOR  FISH-SOUP.  Simmer  a  pound  of 
skate,  four  or  five  flounders,  and  two  eels,  -well  cleaned 
but  nQt  skinned,  and  all  cut  into  pieces,  with  a  seasoning 
of  i^ace,  pepper,  salt,  and  onion,  a  few  cloves,  a  head  of 
celery,  two  parsley-roots  sliced,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them,  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  in  a  stewpan  closely  covered  ;  strain  it  off  for  use. 
Various  Jish  soups  may  be  made  from  this  as  a  basis. 

EEL-SOUP.  Boil  a  pound  of  unskinned  eels,  the 
heads  being  separated  from  the  bodies,  which  must  be 
cut  into  short  lengths,  in  a  quart  of  water,  with  a  crust 
of  bread,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little  whole 
pepper,  an  onion,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  in  a  stew- 
pan  closely  covered  till  they  are  quite  broken  ;  then  strain 


SOUDS  AND  BROTHS. 


35 

off  the  soup,  and  pour  it,  boiling  hot,  on  some  toasted 
bread  cut  into  dice.  Cream,  butter,  and  flour  are  some¬ 
times  added  to  this  soup  to  improve  it ;  but  these,  more 
especially  if  the  soup  he  designed  for  invalids  and  the  sick, 
are  unwholesome,  and,  for  such,  highly  improper.  The  best 
and  most  wholesome  condiment  for  eel-soup,  besides  salt,  is 
parsley. 

OYSTER-SOUP  is  made  with  the  preceding  fish-stock 
and  the  hard  part  of  two  quarts  of  oysters  beaten  in  a 
mortar  with  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  boiled  hard.  Simmer 
them  for  half  an  hour ;  strain  the  liquor  off,  and  put  to  it 
I  the  remainder  of  the  oysters  freed  from  the  beards ;  simmer 
;  again  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  six 
raw  eggs  well  beaten ;  stir  the  whole  over  a  moderate  fire 
till  it  is  thick  and  smooth,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
j  boil.  It  may  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  &c.  at 
:|  pleasure. 

Note,  that  this  is  a  most  unwholesome  dish ;  and,  al¬ 
though  it  may  be  occasionally  demanded  by  the  luxurious. 

Boil  half  a  hundred  craw-fisb 
pounded,  the  meat  of  a  hen  lobster,  the  spawn  of  a  lobster, 
and  the  crumb  of  four  penny  French  rolls  in  three  quarts 
jj  of  fish-stock  for  an  hour ;  skim,  and  then  rub  it  through  a 
:  fine  cloth ;  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  &c.  There  are 
several  other  ways  of  preparing  this  soup,  but  this  is  by 
far  the  simplest. 

LOBSTER-SOUP.  Take  the  meat  from  three  fresh 
boiled  hen  lobsters ;  cut  in  into  small  pieces,  and  crack  the 
claws  ;  take  out  the  coral  and  soft  part  of  the  body ;  bruise 
I:  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar ;  pick  out  the  fish  from  the 
;!  chines;  beat  part  of  it  with  the  coral,  and  make  force-meat 
j!  balls  with  it ;  flavour  them  with  nutmeg,  a  little  grated 
i  lemon-peel,  anchovy,  and  cayenne  ;  pound  these  with  the 
j  yolk  of  an  egg.  Boil  now  the  small  legs  and  the  chine, 
both  bruised,  in  three  quarts  of  veal  broth  for  twenty 
minutes  ;  strain  it,  and  thicken  it  thus  :  bruise  the  live 
[  spawn  in  a  mortar  wfith  a  little  butter  and  flour;  rub  it 
[j  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  the  meat  of 
;  the  lobsters  and  the  remaining  coral ;  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  ten  minutes,  but  it  must  not  boil.  Serve  it  up  in  a 


the  prudent  should  avoid  it. 
CRAW-FISH-SOUP. 


36  SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

tureen  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  some  essence  of 
anchovy. 

A  CHEAP  BROTH  MADE  IN  FIVE  MINUTES. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  some  sippets  of  bread,  over  which 
has  been  strewed  some  parsley,  leeks,  or  other  herbs, 
chopped  fine,  in  a  basin ;  add  fresh  butter,  or  cream,  and 
salt  at  pleasure. 

Note,  this  is  called,  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  tea¬ 
kettle-broth,  and  is  very  superior  to  many  broths  of  more 
numerous  ingredients ;  of  course  it  is  not  so  nutritious 
as  those  obtained  from  animal  substances  by  boiling. 

SCOTCH-BARLEY-BROTH.  Take  half  a  pound  of 
Scotch  barley,  washed  clean  in  cold  water  ;  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  leg  of  beef  weighing  about  seven  pounds, 
two  or  three  onions,  and  water  sufficient  to  cover  the  whole. 
Boil  gently  for  about  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  take  off  the 
fat,  and  put  in  a  head  or  two  of  celery,  and  a  turnip,  and 
a  carrot  cut  into  pieces ;  add  a  seasoning  of  salt,  and  boil 
again  one  hour  or  more  ;  serve  it  up  with  pepper  or  other 
condiments. 

Note,  that  this  is  a  cheap  soup ;  the  Scotch  barley  is 
much  better  than  flour,  too  often  employed  in  such  dishes. 
The  meat  left  after  the  soup  is  made  will  also  form  an 
excellent  dish  by  the  addition  of  a  little  sauce,  such  as 
mushroom  catchup,  &c.  &c.  This  broth  may  also  be  made 
with  a  sheep’s  head  cut  into  pieces  ;  or  with  six  pounds  of 
the  lean  of  any  piece  of  beef. 

MUTTON-BROTH.  Boil  three  pounds  of  the  scrag- 
end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  cut  into  pieces,  in  three  quarts 
of  w-ater  for  an  hour,  then  add  one  or  two  turnips  and  such 
seasoning,  wfith  herbs,  &c.  as  you  may  choose ;  boil  for 
half  an  hour  more,  and  it  will  be  done  ;  serve  up  with 
parsley  chopped  fine.  Some  add  to  this  simple,  and  perhaps 
the  best  of  mutton-broths,  rice,  Scotch  or  pearl  barley,  or 
\  grits  or  oatmeal,  mace,  &c.  If  you  do  not  desire  the  broth 

to  taste  very  strongly,  they  may  be  boiled  separately,  and 
added  to  the  broth  when  it  is  ready. 

VEAL-BROTII.  Boil  a  knuckle  or  a  part  of  a  neck  of 
veal,  of  three  pounds’  weight,  with  an  ounce  of  rice,  in 
three  quarts  of  water,  till  they  are  reduced  to  three  pints ; 
add,  towards  the  end  of  the  boiling,  a  blade  of  mace,  and 
such  other  seasoning  as  you  may  desire. 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS, 


37 


BEEF-BROTH.  Boil  a  leg  or  shin,  or  any  lean  part 
of  beef,  if  about  three  pounds,  (the  bones  being  broken,) 
in  three  quarts  of  water,  for  an  hour  ;  then  add  a  turnip,  a 
carrot,  an  onion,  and  such  seasoning  as  you  please ;  boil 
for  half  an  hour  longer,  and  it  may  be  served  up.  The 
beef,  after  this  process,  will  make  a  very  good  and  whole¬ 
some  dish. 

For  Beef -Tea  see  our  Chapter  on  Gruels,  panada,  &c. 

CHICKEN-BROTH.  Take  an  old  fowl,  cut  it  into 
pieces,  and  remove  all  the  fat,  boil  it  for  five  or  six  hours 
in  two  quarts  of  water ;  then  pour  off  all  the  liquor,  and 
add  another  quart  of  boiling  water  to  it ;  boil  again  for 
another  hour  or  more  ;  mix  both  the  liquors  together,  and 
serve  it  up  with  such  seasoning  as  may  be  desired. 

Note.  Some  put  a  large  crust  of  bread  into  the  first 
boiling  ;  but  the  cook  ought  to  know  that  by  saturating 
the  water  with  bread  it  will  be  prevented,  in  some  degree, 
from  taking  up  the  nutritious  properties  of  the  fowl  ;  and 
therefore,  if  bread  be  desired,  it  should  be  added  to  the 
liquor  after  the  boilings  are  completed. 

PLUM-PORRIDGE.  There  is  a  form  in  several  of 
our  cookery-books  for  this  dish ;  it  consists  in  boiling  a  leg 
or  shin  of  beef  till  it  is  tender,  and  then  straining  off  the 
broth,  to  which  are  added  six  penny  loaves  sliced,  with 
five  pounds  of  stewed  sun-raisins,  two  pounds  of  prunes, 
and  five  pounds  of  currants,  all  which  must  be  boiled  in  the 
broth  till  they  are  done,  just  before  which  three  quarters  of 
an  ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  two  nut¬ 
megs,  all  beaten  fine,  are  to  be  put  in  ;  after  taking  off  the 
pot,  add  three  pounds  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  a  quart  of 
sack,*  a  quart  of  claret,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  it 
may  be  thickened  with  sago  instead  of  bread.  Keep  it  in 
earthen  pans  for  use.  A  very  pretty  dyspeptic  and  expen¬ 
sive  dish  ;  which,  reader,  if  you  like,  prepare  and  eat ! 

*  By  sack  is,  we  presume,  meant  sherry  or  madeira  ;  sack  is  a 
corruption  of  sec — dry. 


38 


CHAPTER  III. 

ROASTING. 


* -  A  glorious  theme 

On  which  a  gourmand  oft  may  dream  : — 
To  rule  the  ROAST — a  dish  in  chief — 

Old  England's  pride  is  roasted  beef ; 
Plum-pudding,  its  attendant  care. 

Though  good,  not  always  wholesome  fare  ; 
The  worst  when  mix’d  with  condiments 
Which  sensual  Fashion  oft  invents  ; 

But  mutton  roast,  or  roasted  beef, 

Should  ever  be  a  dish  in  chief ; 

Nor  need  another  interpose. 

Save  what  we  set  down,  namely,  those  : 
Horse-radish,  a  most  pungent  friend. 

On  roast  beef  ever  must  attend  ; 

Potatoes — water  ;  after,  wine  ; 

Or,  if  your  health  permit  the  cheer, 

A  nipperkin  of  good  strong  beer  : 

On  such  fare  even  kings  may  dine  !  • 


General  Observations. — It  is  scarcely  necessary  tc 
observe,  that  in  order  to  roast  meat  properly  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  fire  is  sufficiently  large,  steady,  and  intense, 
so  that  no  cessation  in  the  process  should  take  place  during- 
its  continuance ;  it  is  best,  nevertheless,  for  larg-e  joints, 
that  they  should  be  put  down  soon  after  the  fire  is  made  up 
and  begins  to  burn :  for  the  gradual  accession  of  heat  to 
the  joint  will  more  effectually  prevent  its  burning ,  which 
if  it  occur  in  the  early  part  of  the  process  will  be  very 
prejudicial  to  the  subsequent  stages  of  it ;  it  is  material 
therefore  to  prevent  such  an  accident.  This  may  in  some 
degree  be  prevented  by  skewering  some  writing  paper  over 
the  joint,  or  at  least  over  the  fat.  But  it  is  not  customary 
to  cover  small  poultry,  nor  wild  fowl,  nor  rabbits,  &c.  with 

k  *  It  is  not  meant  that  other  vegetables  in  their  season  might  not 

be  occasionally  eaten  with  roast  beef,  such  as  French  beans, 
cabbage,  &c. ;  but  the  prudent  will  always  avoid  eating  a  variety- 
even  of  vegetables.  Note,  that  throughout  the  United  States  of 
America  plain  boiled  rice  is  the  constant  accompaniment  of  roast 
beef  and  mutton,  as  well  as  several  other  dishes  ;  it  is  an  excellent 
substitute  for  other  vegetables. 


ROASTING. 


39 

paper;  indeed,  some  use  paper  only  to  cover  the  fat,  and 
not  the  other  parts  of  the  joint.  Of  course  the  strength 
of  the  fire  must  be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the  joint ;  a 
small  thin  joint  may  be  put  down  at  once  to  a  brisk  fire  ; 
but  a  thick  and  large  joint  wall  require  the  precautions 
above  given.  It  should  be  well  basted  during  the  roasting; 
towards  the  end  of  which  the  paper  may  be  taken  oft’,  and 
the  joint  being  more  completely  exposed  to  the  fire  will 
become  brown,  as  it  is  usually  desired  to  be.  TWards  the 
end  of  the  operation  some  salt  may  be  sprinkled  on  the 
joint,  but  not  before  ;  some,  hovrever,  sprinkle  salt  upon  it 
when  it  is  first  put  down,  but  it  tends  to  draw  out  the 
gravy.  The  time  required  for  roasting  meat  wall  depend 
not  only  upon  the  weight  and  form  of  the  joint,  but  also 
on  the  regularity  and  intensity  of  the  fire.  No  rule  can 
be  laid  down  so  uniform  for  roasting  as  for  boiling,  because, 
in  boiling ,  the  degree  of  212°  of  Fahrenheit’s  thermometer 
is  alwTays  kept  up  ;  the  degree  in  roasting  applied  to  meat 
is,  doubtless,  very  often  considerably  more  than  212°  ;  yet 
j  from  the  constant  accession  of  air  and  other  causes  it  must 
vary  very  much.  Of  course  thick  joints,  as  a  large  leg  of 
mutton  or  a  bullock’s  heart,  will  demand  considerably  more 
time  in  proportion  to  their  weight  than  a  goose  or  a  shoulder 
of  mutton.  Perhaps,  after  all,  the  best  general  rule  for  the 
cook  is  to  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound  of  meat 
as  in  boiling  ;  but,  if  the  fire  be  good  and  steady  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  of  the  operation,  scarcely  any  meat  ' 
will  require  so  much  time  to  be  roasted  as  is  here  stated. 
We  observe,  it  is  said  in  one  of  the  cookery  books,  that  a 
piece  of  beef  of  ten  pounds  will  take  only  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  and  that  one  of  twenty,  if  a  thick  piece,  three  hours. 

■  This  may  be  very  correct  upon  some  occasions,  but  we  do 
|  not  believe,  unless  the  fire  be  unusually  intense,  that  either 
of  the  joints  will  be  properly  done  in  the  times  mentioned. 

I  But,  of  course,  the  cook  must  accommodate  the  meat  to 
the  palate  of  the  persons  designed  to  partake  of  it :  some 
like  it  more  or  less  underdone ;  others  will  have  it  without 
the  least  red  in  it.  Beef  and  mutton  in  this  respect  may 
be  underdone  without  injury  to  their  nutritious  qualities; 
but  it  is  generally  admitted,  that  the  white  and  young 
meats,  as  pork,  veal,  and  lamb,  should  be  done  well.  So 


40 


ROASTING.  —VENISON. 


in  regard  to  poultry;  fowls  and  chickens,  as  well  as  turkeys 
and  some  others,  should  have  no  red  in  them  when  roasted; 
but  the  birds  usually  denominated  game  are  by  many  pre¬ 
ferred  somewhat  underdone. 

There  is  one  sign  that  all  roast  meats  are  done,  which 
may  be  here  mentioned,  namely,  that  consisting  of  strong 
jets  of  steam  spouting  out  from  various  parts  of  the  meat, 
or  of  birds,  hares,  &c.;  and  although  the  experienced  cook 
will  not  rely  upon  such  evidence  alone,  it  will  be  a  tolerably 
good  one  for  the  inexperienced. 

Note ,  that  meat  in  hot  weather,  or  which  has  been 
hung  so  long  as  to  become  tender,  will  require  less  time 
in  roasting  than  that  which  is  fresh  killed,  or  when  the 
weather  is  cold;  in  frosty  weather  it  will  require  consider¬ 
ably  more  time. 

It  is  also  a  good  method  when  the  meat  is  first  put  down 
to  keep  it  for  a  time  at  a  certain  distance  from  the  fire,  and 
as  the  roasting  proceeds,  to  bring  it  nearer  to  it  by  shifting 
the  spit  or  other  apparatus,  so  that  the  application  of  the 
heat  may  be  more  gradual. 

When  the  meat  is  about  three-fourths  done,  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served  up  should  be  carefully  placed  over 
the  dripping-pan,  in  order  that  it  may  receive  the  genuine 
gravy  of  the  meat. 

Just  before  the  meat  is  taken  up  a  little  flour  should  be 
shaken  over  it  in  order  that  it  may  froth  well ;  and  some 
thin  melted  butter  should  be  poured  over  the  meat  when  it 
is  about  to  be  served  up  to  add  to  the  gravy. 

For  an  account  of  spits,  jacks,  and  screens,  necessary 
for  roasting,  see  the  Introduction  on  the  Implements  used 
in  Cookerij. 

A  HAUNCH,  NECK,  OR  SHOULDER  OF  VE¬ 
NISON.  Venison  having  been  hung  sufficiently  long  to 
be  tender,  which  it  will  be  from  a  week  to  a  fortnight 
depending  upon  the  season ;  if  it  be  dressed  on  a  spit,  let 
the  spit  be  first  passed  through  it,  and  then  cover  it  with 
white  paper  rubbed  over  with  butter  ;  prepare  now  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water,  roll  it  out  and  cover  the  haunch  with  it ; 
(some  only  cover  the  fat  part  with  the  paste ;)  place  paper 
over  the  whole  and  tie  it  fast  to  prevent  the  paste  from 
dropping  oft'.  If  the  haunch  weigh  twenty  pounds,  it  will 


41 


HOASTING. - FAWN,  KID,  MUTTON. 

take  about  four  hours  roasting1.  A  few  minutes  before  it 
is  done  take  off  the  paper  and  paste,  dredge  it  well  with 
flour  and  baste  it  well  with  butter  till  it  froths  and  becomes 
of  a  light  brown  ;  serve  it  up  with  brown  gravy  and  currant 
jelly,  and  send  some  up  in  a  boat,  or  half  a  pint  of  red 
wine  and  two  ounces  of  sugar  may  be  simmered  tog-ether  in 
a  close  vessel  for  a  few  minutes,  which  will  form  a  good 
sweet  sauce  for  it. 

Note,  that  venison  should  be  constantly  basted  during 
the  -whole  time  of  its  roasting.  It  is  best  basted  with 
clarified  beef  suet. 

A  FAWN,  when  very  young,  is  not  food  to  be  greatly 
desired,  yet  there  are  persons  who  will  have  it  roasted 
whole  ;  it  is  usual  then  to  treat  it  in  every  respect  like  a 
hare.  It  is  undoubtedly  better  to  let  it  arrive  to  the  size  of 
a  house-lamb,  and  then  it  may  be  roasted  in  quarters  and 
treated  more  like  venison  ;  except  that  it  will  not  need  the 
paste  over  it,  although  some  cover  it  with  bacon.  It  may 
be  sent  up  writh  venison  sauce. 

A  KID,  if  a  young  sucking  one,  may  be  roasted  whole 
like  a  hare ;  but  if  it  be  suffered  to  grow  larger  it  should  be 
divided  into  joints,  which  may  be  roasted  as  lamb,  to  which 
it  is  perhaps  equal,  at  least  in  its  nutritious  qualities. 

A  HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON  DRESSED  LIKE  VE¬ 
NISON. — -Take  a  fine  hind-quarter  of  mutton,  cut  it 
like  a  haunch ;  let  it  be  kept  as  long  as  it  can  be  kept 
without  spoiling.  Then  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  the  backside 
down,  and  pour  a  bottle  of  port  wine  over  it,  in  which  let 
it  lie  for  twenty-four  hours,  covering  the  pan  closely  to 
prevent  the  evaporation  of  the  wine.  Spit  it  and  roast  it, 
basting  it  all  the  time  with  the  same  liquor  and  butter. 
Some  lay  on  paste  and  paper  in  a  similar  way  to  that 
directed  in  the  preceding  article  for  venison.  It  will  take 
about  three  hours  roasting.  When  done,  send  it  up  with 
some  good  gravy,  and  also  some  swmet  sauce,  and  currant 
jelly.  A  neck  of  mutton  dressed  in  this  way  is  also  a  nice 
dish. 

A  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON  should  hang  for  many  days 
till  it  is  tender  ;  remove  the  skin  near  the  rump  without 
taking  it  quite  oft’  or  breaking  it.  Take  now  some  lean  ham, 
truffles,  morels,  onions,  parsley  and  thyme  all  chopped 


42 


ROASTING.  —  MUTTON,  LAMB,  BEEF. 


small,  with  some  spice,  pepper,  and  salt ;  strew  these  over 
the  mutton  where  the  skin  is  taken  off ;  then  put  the  skin 
over  it  neatly,  tie  it  over  with  some  white  paper  and  roast 
it.  When  nearly  done  take  off  the  paper  and  strew  over 
the  joint  some  grated  bread,  and  when  it  becomes  of  a  fine 
brown  take  it  up.  Let  some  good  gravy  be  served  up  with 
it  as  sauce. 

Note ,  that  a  saddle  of  mutton  is  often  roasted  without 
the  minced  ham,  &c.  ;  it  is  at  all  times,  and  when  dressed 
in  the  most  simple  which  is  the  best  way,  a  very  excellent 
dish. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON  is  sometimes  roasted  stuffed  in 
various  parts  with  oysters  or  cockles  ;  but  we  do  not  re¬ 
commend  the  dish.  To  give  directions  for  roasting  a  leg  of 
mutton  in  the  simplest  and  best  way  after  the  general  di¬ 
rections  for  roasting  above  would  be  quite  superfluous  ;  but 
of  this  we  may  be  assured,  that  a  roasted  leg  of  mutton  is 
much  more  nutricious  than  a  boiled  one,  because,  in  the  one 
case,  all  the  goodness  of  the  meat  is  retained  in  the  joint, 
while  in  the  other  much  of  it  is  dissolved  in  the  water.  A  leg 
of  mutton  of  six  pounds  will  require  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Some  good  plain  gravy  may  be  sent  up  with  it ;  but  when 
the  dish  is  laid  on  the  dinner  table,  if  the  carver  make  at 
once  a  deep  incision  down  to  the  bone  in  the  thickest  part 
of  the  joint  sufficient  gravy  will  in  general  (if  it  be  properly, 
not  too  much  done)  run  out  of  the  meat. 

A  FORE-QUARTER  OF  HOUSE  LAMB  of  six 


pounds  weight  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  half ;  a  leg 
of  four  pounds  weight  an  hour.  They  should  be  basted  from 
the  time  they  are  laid  down  ;  and  some  cooks  sprinkle  on  a 
little  salt  as  soon  as  they  are  put  down  ;  but  we  do  not 
approve  of  this.  The  joint  may  be  dredged  with  flour  when 
nearly  done  to  give  it  a  brown  appearance  ;  but  even  this 


flour  dredging’  had  better  be  avoided. 


This  joint  is  sometimes  brought  to  the  table  whole ;  but 
it  is  better  to  separate  the  shoulder,  and  pepper  and  salt 
the  ribs  before  the  dish  is  brought  up.  Squeeze  a  Seville 
orange  over  them.  Serve  up  with  mint  sauce,  which  is 
always  expected  with  lamb;  and  potatoes  or  other  vegetables 
of  course  ;  a  salad  will  also  be  acceptable. 

BEEF  requires  in  roasting  more  time  than  mutton;  but 


ROASTING. 


I 


-VEAL,  CALF’S  HEAD. 


43 


the  general  directions  at  the  commencement  of  this  chapter 
will  be  quite  sufficient  with  the  least  discretion  of  the  cook 
to  roast  any  joint  of  the  ox.  Roast  beef  is  always  served 
up  with  plenty  of  scraped  horse-radish  with  which  the  edge 
■;  °.f  the  dlsh  should  be  garnished;  some  eat  pickles  with  it- 
the  vegetaffies  are  various  ;  but  potatoes  are  indispensable.  ’ 
VRAL  requires  considerable  attention  in  roastino-  be- 
J  c^se  care  must  he  taken  that  it  be  quite  done,  and  conse¬ 
quently  all  white  even  to  the  bone  ;  it  will  certainly  require 
tor  most  joints  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  each  pound  of  meat  • 
sometimes  even  more  than  this  time.  Let  the  fat  of  the 
loin  and  the  fillet  be  covered  with  paper.  And  stuff  the 
uhet  and  shoulder  with  the  following :  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
A  suet  chopped  fine,  grated  bread,  sweet  herbs,  or  lemon  peel 
a  chopped  fine,  to  which,  add  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  mix  all  well  together  and  inclose  it 
m  the  veal  so  that  it  may  not  fall  out  during  roasting, 
the  breast  should  be  roasted  with  the  caul  till  nearly  done 
vvhen  the  caul  must  be  taken  off,  and  then  flour  and  baste 
the  meat  to  give  it  a  nice  brown.  It  is  scarcely  necessary 
to  add  that  all  the  joints  during  the  roasting  should  be  care- 
uily  basted.  In  serving  roasted  veal  up,  melted  butter 
ai  mould  be  poured  over  it;  the  vegetables  may  be  almost  at 
f  3leasure  and  those  which  are  in  season  ;  but  potatoes  should 
:  je  a  standing  dish  ;  and  it  is  a  question  whether  any  vege¬ 
table  will  ever  be  discovered  so  suitable  and  withal  so 

i«  wholesome  to  be  eaten  with  all  kinds  of  animal  food  as  the 
ootatoe. 

Ao^c  that  a  cow  calf  generally  produces  the  best  veal, 
md  chiefly  the  leg,  because  it  contains  a  roll  of  fat  mixed 
•vith  the  young  udder. 

A  CALF  S  HEAD,  being  washed  very  clean,  boned 
md  dried  with  a  cloth,  let  it  be  strewed  over  with  some 
pace,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  cloves  beaten  into  a  coarse 
®  [0Waer»  w*th  some  bacon  cut  very  small  and  some  grated 
Ji!  >read  >  r°H  ^e  whole  up,  skewer  it,  and  tie  it  with  tape  ;  set  it 
o .roast  basting  with  butter ;  make  a  rich  veal  gravy  thickened 
yith  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Some  choose  mushrooms  and  the 
at  part  ol  oysters  ;  others  mushroom  sauce.  Serve  it  up. 

bate,  that  a  calf’s  head  is  occasionally  roasted  with 


44  ROASTING. — TONGUES,  PALATES,  PORK. 

oysters,  eggs,  and  a  variety  of  other  ingredients  ;  but  it  is 
a  dish  which  we  cannot  recommend. 

TONGUES,  UDDERS,  AND  SWEETBREADS. 
Let  a  tongue  he  parboiled,  then  stick  in  it  eight  or  ten  cloves, 
set  it  to  roast  basting  with  butter ;  serve  it  -with  gravy  and 
sweetmeat  sauce.  An  udder  must  be  roasted  in  the  same 
way.  A  sweetbread  should  also  be  parboiled,  then  larded 
with  bacon  and  roasted  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  on  a  poor  man’s 
jack.  Serve  up  with  plain  butter,  catchup  and  butter,  or 
lemon  sauce. 

OX  PALATES  are  also  directed  to  be  roasted  in  some 
of  the  Cookery  Books,  but  with  such  a  strange  jumble  of 
other  things,  that  the  prudent  would  do  well  to  avoid  such  adish. 

A  BULLOCK’S  OR  CALF’S  HEART  may  be  stuffed 
and  roasted  as  directed  for  baking,  which  see. 

PORK  should  always  be  well  done  ;  and  if,  as  it  is 
usually  sold  in  London,  the  skin  with  the  fat  beneath  be 
on  it  before  the  joint  is  set  down  to  roast,  the  skin  should 
be  cut  across  through  to  the  fat,  at  the  distance  of  every 
half  inch,  with  a  sharp  penknife  ;  this  process  will  facilitate 
not  only  the  dressing  of  the  meat,  but  also  the  labours  of  the 
carver,  and  render  the  skin  itself,  which  when  not  burnt 
is  very  nutricious,  pleasant  to  be  eaten.  Sage  and  onions 
chopped  very  fine  form  the  general  seasoning  to  roasted 
pork  ;  the  knuckle  part  of  the  leg  is  commonly  stuffed  with 
it.  A  spring  or  hand,  sometimes  called  gammon,  should 
have  the  shank  first  cut  off,  and  then  be  sprinkled  with  sage 
and  onions  before  it  is  set  down.  Baste  a  spare-rib,  or 
bald-rib  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  with  a  little  butter,  a  dust 
of  flour  and  a  shred  of  sage.  A  griskin  should  be  basted 
with  a  little  butter,  sage,  pepper,  and  salt.  The  time  for 
roasting  pork  generally  must  be  quite  as  long  as  that  for 
veal ;  but  a  spare-rib  will  not,  of  course,  require  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  for  each  pound  of  meat. 

A  ^LEG  OF  PORK  being  a  thick  joint  will  require,  if 
ten  pounds,  three  hours  to  be  roasted. 

In  regard  to  the  general  basting  of  pork,  that  which  has 
much  fat  beneath  the  skin  will  not  require,  except  when 
first  set  down,  any  other  liquid  for  its  basting  than  the  fat 
which  runs  from  it  ;  previously,  however,  a  little  clean 


45 


ROASTING. —  HAM,  GAMMON 


dripping  or  clarified  suet  may  be  used  for  the  purpose.*  The 
general  accompaniments  of  all  roasted  pork  are  apple-sauce, 
(and  mustard. 

Note ,  that  in  the  country,  particularly  where  economy 
is  the  order  of  the  day,  and  where  the  pigs  that  are  killed 
are  most  commonly  fat  and  large,  the  whole  of  the  skin  with 
most  of  the  fat  attached  to  it  is  taken  off,  except  that  from 
the  head  and- legs,  in  order  to  be  converted  into  bacon, 
■and  hence,  the  pork  thus  separated  from  the  skin  and  fat, 
is  cut  into  various  joints,  and  if  not  dressed  fresh,  salted. 
When,  however,  those  joints  are  roasted  fresh,  they  must 
be  treated  in  a  similar  way  to  that  directed  above.  But,  of 
30urse,  such  pork  will  want  no  scoring  with  the  penknife. 
We  believe,  however,  that  the  large  country  pork  to  which 
we  allude,  is  more  wholesome  and  nutritious  than  the  pork 
usually  met  with  in  London,  although  this  last  appears  more 
tlelicate. 


Attend  to  the  general  directions  for  roasting,  and 
take  care  not  to  bring  the  pork  very  near  to  the  fire  at  first. 

A  HAM,  or  GAMMON,  (that  is,  the  fore-leg  of  the 
pig,)  is  sometimes  roasted  thus.  Having  taken  off  the 
skin,  let  it  lie  in  luke-warm  water  for  six  or  more  hours 
to  extract  a  portion  of  its  saltness  ;  the  longer,  in  short, 
that  it  is  soaked  the  better ;  see  the  Boiling  of  Ham,  page 
p.  When  it  has  soaked  sufficiently,  put  it  into  a  pan, 
and  pour  over  it  a  bottle  of  canary  or  port  wine,  in  which 
let  it  remain  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When  put  on  the 
spit,  put  paper  over  the  fat  side,  and  pour  the  wine  in  which 
It  has  been  soaked  into  the  dripping-pan,  and  baste  with 
It  all  the  time  that  it  is  roasting.  When  done,  take  off  the 
paper,  and  strew  over  it  crumbled  bread  and  parsley  shred 
fine  ;  let  it  be  now  kept  a  short  time  longer  at  the  fire  so 
ps  to  become  brown,  if  served  hot,  garnish  with  raspings 
jf  bread  ;  if  cold,  garnish  with  green  parsley  for  a  second 
purse.  It  will  require  the  same  time,  if  not  more,  for 
roasting  as  for  boiling. 

*  Dr.  Kitchener  says,  that  a  little  sweet  oil  rubbed  on  the  skin 
livith  a  paste-brush  or  a  goose-feather,  will  make  the  crackling 
irisper  and  browner  than  basting  it  with  dripping;  and  that  it 
[ivill  be  a  better  colour  than  all  the  art  of  cookery  can  make  it  in 
my  other  way.  Cook’s  Oracle,  page  165. 


46 


ROASTING. —  A  SUCKING  PIG. 

Or  a  Ham  or  Gammon  may  be  roasted  thus ;  which  is, 
perhaps,  a  preferable  way.  Half  boil  it  first,  and  then 
take  off  the  skin  ;  dredge  it  with  oatmeal  sifted  very  fine  ; 
baste  it  with  butter,  and  roast  it  gently  two  hours.  It  must 
be  browned  as  above  directed,  and  served  up  in  the  same 
way. 

A  SUCKING  PIG  being-  prepared  for  dressing  as  di¬ 
rected  below,  make  a  stuffing  thus  :  some  sage  chopped  fine, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  four 
ounces  or  more  of  crumbs  of  stale  bread ;  or,  in  addition, 
if  you  choose,  a  large  onion  chopped  fine  ;  to  these  some 
add  an  egg  and  a  bit  of  butter.  The  belly  of  the  pig  must 
be  filled  with  the  stuffing,  and  sewed  up.  Put  it  down  to 
the  fire,  when  it  must  be  well  dredged  with  flour.  A  pig- 
iron  is  usually  hung  in  the  middle  of  the  fire,  or  in  its  stead 
a  flat  iron  may  be  employed,  in  order  that  the  heat  may 
be  directed  to  both  ends  of  the  pig  rather  than  to  the  middle, 
which,  in  roasting  it,  it  is  necessary  that  it  should  be.  When 
the  pig  is  warm,  put  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  cloth,  and  rub 
frequently  the  pig  with  it  while  it  is  roasting.  Some  direct, 
instead  of  butter,  the  basting  to  be  with  salad  oil.  It  will 
be  done  in  about  an  hour  and  a  half ;  but  the  time  must 
depend  upon  its  size  and  age ;  some  say  a  pig  is  best  at 
three,  others  will  have  it  six  weeks  old  ;  the  last  we  should 
choose.  When  the  pig  becomes  of  a  fine  brown,  and  other 
evidence  of  its  being  done  appears,  rub  it  dry  with  a  cloth, 
and  then  with  a  little  cold  butter,  which  will  contribute  to 
its  crisping,  upon  which  not  a  little  of  its  merit  as  an 
epicurean  dish  depends.  Take  it  up  when  done  ;  cut  off 
the  head,  the  collar,  the  ears,  and  the  jaw-bone ;  split  the 
jaw  in  two  ;  and  when  you  have  cut  the  pig  down  the  back, 
which  is  best  done  before  the  spit  is  drawn  out,  lay  it  back 
to  back  on  the  dish,  a  jaw  being  on  each  side,  an  ear  on 
each  shoulder,  and  the  collar  at  the  shoulder.  A  sauce  is 
prepared  thus  :  save  all  the  gravy  which  runs  out  of  the 
pig  during  its  roasting,  by  placing  a  bason  in  the  dripping- 
pan  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  run  ;  to  this  add  the  brains 
chopped  and  a  bit  of  anchovy,  four  ounces  or  more  of 
butter,  a  slice  of  lemon,  to  which  some  add  an  ounce  of 
white  wine,  caper  liquor,  and  salt.  Make  the  whole  quite 
hot  in  a  saucepan,  adding  a  little  flour  if  necessary  to 


ROASTING. —  RABBIT.  47 

i  thicken  it.  Pour  it  into  the  dish  with  the  pig,  and  serve 
it  up ;  besides  which,  some  good  gravy  may  be  sent  up  in 
1  a  boat ;  boiled  currants  and  some  currant  jelly  are  also 
sometimes  eaten  with  it.  It  is  the  best  way  to  send  it  to 
the  table  already  carved. 

In  London  pigs  are  more  frequently  baked  than  roasted ; 
the  baking  saves  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  the  cook  ;  butter 
should  be  sent  with  it  to  the  baker. 

We  have  thus  detailed  the  mode  of  dressing  this  luxu¬ 
rious  dish  ;  but  wrere  our  voice  of  any  moment,  we  would 
say  that  it  is  one  of  which  no  person  who  desires  to  avoid  the 
troubles  and  inconveniences  of  indigestion  should  partake. 
Notwithstanding  wre  disapprove  of  this  dish,  we  will  add  a 
|j  few  directions  for  those  who  choose  to  kill  and  prepare  the 

Ij  pig  for  roasting  themselves. 

Stick  the  pig  just  above  the  breast  bone  into  the  heart  ; 
j  it  will  be  thus  the  most  quickly  killed  ;  when  dead  put  it 
into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  ;*  then  plunge  it  for  half 

I  a  minute  into  scalding  water ;  take  it  out  and  rub  or  pull 
off  all  the  hairs  as  soon  as  possible ;  if  all  the  hairs  do  not 
;  come  readily  off,  plunge  the  pig  again  into  the  scalding 

I1  water;  when  the  skin  is  perfectly  clean,  wash  the  pig  well 
j  in  warm  water,  and  then  in  two  or  three  cold  waters.  Take 
<  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  slit  down  the  belly  and  take 
lout  the  entrails;  put  the  heart,  liver,  lights,  and  petit-toes, 
together  ;  wash  the  pig  well  in  cold  water  both  inside  and 

(out,  and  after  drying  it  with  a  cloth,  hang  it  up  till  it  is 
wanted  ;  but  it  is  considered  by  gourmands  that  the  sooner 

iit  is  dressed  after  it  is  killed  the  better. 

A  RABBIT  being  cased,  skewer  the  head  upon  the 
I  back,  the  fore  legs  into  the  ribs,  and  the  hind  legs  double. 

Stuff  it  with  the  following  :  take  the  crumb  of  half  a  penny 
I; loaf,  some  parsley,  thyme,  maijoram,  and  lemon-peel,  pep- 
}  per,  salt,  a  nutmeg,  two  eggs,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
I  butter,  (to  which  some  add  a  little  cream,  why,  we  do  not 
know)  ;  let  the  bread,  parsley,  &c.  be  chopped  fine,  and 
mix  alltogether,  and  sew  it  up  in  the  belly;  dredge  and  baste 


*  Some  direct  the  pig  to  be  rubbed  over  with  resin  in  fine  pow¬ 
der,  or,  in  its  stead,  its  own  blood  j  but  we  see  no  necessity  for 
Neither. 


48 


ROASTING. —  HARE. 


well  with  butter.  A  rabbit  will  take  from  half  an  hour  to 
three  quarters  in  roasting ;  the  time  being  dependent  on  its 
size  and  age. 

For  sauce,  the  liver  must  be  boiled  ;  a  part  of  which 
should  be  chopped  fine,  and  served  up  with  melted  butter 
and  parsley ;  the  other  part  should  be  cut  into  pieces,  and 
placed  as  garnish  round  the  dish. 

To  roast  a  Rabbit  like  a  Hare,  it  should  be  larded  with 
bacon,  and  basted  as  a  hare,  for  which  see  the  next  article; 
serve  it  up  with  good  gravy. 

A  HARE,  being  paunched,  kept  sufficiently  long  to  be 
tender,  then  skinned,  soaked  in  water,  well  cleansed,  and 
properly  trussed,  should  be  stuffed  with  the  following  :  take 
two  or  three  ounces  of  bread,  four  ounces  of  beef  suet,  (to 
which  some  add  the  same  quantity  of  butter,)  the  liver  of 
the  hare  boiled,  a  little  parsley,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  a  sprig  of  winter  savory  or  lemon  thyme, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  the  whole  of  one  egg,  (some  put  two 
eggs  and  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  an  anchovy  and  some 
bacon,)  all  these  articles  must  be  chopped  fine,  and  mixed 
well  together,  and  then  be  sewed  up  in  the  belly.  Lay  it 
now  before  the  fire ;  put  into  the  dripping-pan  a  quart  of 
good  new  milk,  and  baste  it  well  with  the  milk  till  it  is 
nearly  all  used  ;  then  dredge  it  with  flour  and  baste  with 
butter  till  it  froths  well.  A  hare  requires  from  an  hour 
and  a  quarter  to  two  hours  to  roast,  the  time  depending  on 
its  size  and  age  :  a  very  old  hare  will  be  best  made  into  soup. 
When  your  hare  is  done,  serve  it  up  with  good  gravf  'in  the 
dish  ;  currant  jelly  ;  some  also  add  melted  butter ;  and  be¬ 
sides  a  sweet  sauce  made  with  port  wine  and  sugar  warmed 
together. 

Note,  that  instead  of  milk  some  recommend  dripping 
for  the  basting,  others  small  beer  ;  dripping  is,  perhaps, 
the  best,  but  there  is  no  end  to  the  whimsies  of  cookery. 

It  was  the  observation  of  Martial,  the  Roman  Epigram¬ 
matist,  that  the  hare  was  the  first  glory  among  quadru¬ 
peds  ;  but  this  must  now,  at  airy  rate,  be  taken  with  con¬ 
siderable  limitation.  A  hare,  without  its  accompaniments, 
is  not  a  dish  which  the  prudent  and  economical  portion  of 
society  ought  to  care  much  about;  in  addition  to  which, 
when  we  partake  of  such  a  dish,  it  may  not  be  unprofitable 


49 


ROASTING. —  MOCK-HARE,  TURKEY. 


to  reflect  that  the  very  fibres  which  we  masticate  have  been’ 
most  probably,  obtained  for  our  gratification  by  means  o^ 
a  pack  of  hounds  kept  purposely  for  sport  by  our  Nimrods  > 
and  that  the  poor  hare  was  chased  and  agitated  for  hours 
before  being  destroyed,  when  it  would  have  been  easy  by 
other  means  at  once  to  despatch  her.  Alas  for  the  follies 
of  thoughtless  and,  in  this  instance,  ignoble  man  ! 

Note.-— A  hare  is  sometimes  boned  before  it  is  dressed 
in  London :  the  operation  of  boning  is  usually  performed 
by  the  poulterer ;  and  where  the  bones  are  objectionable, 
this  method  of  dressing  it  will  be,  of  course,  preferred. 
We  believe,  however,  that  gourmands  will  set  their  faces 
against  the  practice  ;  it  renders  enjoyment  too  easy. 

MOCK-HARE  is  an  excellent  dish,  and  may  be  thus 
prepared :  cut  out  the  inside  lean  of  a  sirloin  of  beef  and 
hang  it  up  sufficiently  long  for  it  to  become  thoroughly 
tender ;  then  prepare  some  stuffing  as  directed  for  the  hare 
above,  and  cut  the  meat  open,  lard  it,  and  lay  the  stuffing- 
on  the  meat ;  roll  it  and  tie  it  with  tape,  and  roast  it  by  a 
hanging:  jack,  or  it  may  be  tied  to  a  spit.  Baste  it 


as 


directed  for  the  hare ;  or  you  may  soak  the  meat  in  four 
ounces  of  port  wine  and  a  glass  of  vinegar  for  a  day  or 
more;  with  which  also  it  may  be  basted.  Serve  it  up  as 
hare.  Its  time  of  roasting  will  be  in  proportion  to  its 
weight. 

A  TURKEY,  being  properly  drawn  and  trussed,  and 
having  hung  a  sufficient  time  to  be  tender  (see  Boiling 
Turley,  page  10,)  stuff  it  with  the  following:  take  four 
ounces  of  butter,  or  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  about  the  same 
quantity  of  grated  bread,  a  little  lemon-peel,  parsley,  and 
sweet  herbs,  chopped  together,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg, 
and  one  or  two  eggs ;  mix  these  all  well  together  and  place 
them  in  the  craw :  some  add,  besides,  a  little  sausage  meat, 
or  finely  minced  veal ;  or  pork  sausage  meat  may  be  the 

I  only  stuffing.  Spit  it,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  laid  down  singe 
it;  after  dredging  it  with  flour,  paper  the  breast;  let  your 
fire  be  brisk,  and  baste  with  butter  as  it  melts  in  the 
basting  ladle  ;  into  which  it  should  be  put  rather  than  into 
the  dripping-pan.  When  the  turkey  is  nearly  done,  take 
off  the  paper,  dredge  it  again  with  flour,  and  baste  till  it 
1  is  done. 


50  ROASTING. - TURKEY,  GOOSE. 

The  time  of  roasting  a  turkey  must  be  varied  according 
to  its  size ;  one  of  eight  pounds  will  require  about  two 
hours.  Pork  sausages  are  a  common  accompaniment ; 
they  may  be  either  boiled  or  fried,  and  placed  round  the 
dish.  Send  it  up  with  gravy,  oyster,  mushroom,  or  egg 
sauce ;  the  first  is  the  best. 

The  cook  will  not  forget  that  hen  turkeys  are  esteemed 
best.  See  Made  Dishes  for  some  Lines  on  the  Turkey. 

TURKEY  POULTS  are  to  be  treated  in  the  same 
way ;  but  they  must  be  served  up  with  bread,  as  well  as 
gravy  sauce.  They,  of  course,  will  take  much  less  time 
in  roasting. 

A  turkey  may  be  baked  instead  of  being  roasted;  and, 
if  sent  to  the  baker,  butter  must  be  sent  with  it  for  the 
basting. 

A  GOOSE,  full  grown,  sometimes  called  a  stubble 
goose,  should  be  hung  three  or  four  days  or  more,  before 
it  is  dressed,  in  order  that  it  may  become  tender.  Let 
it  be  stuffed  with  the  following :  take  some  sage  leaves  and 
onions,  (the  quantity  of  each  according  to  your  taste, 
and  if  you  boil  them  a  short  time  in  water  the  stuffing  will 
be  rendered  more  mild  and  wholesome) ;  add  also,  if  you 
please,  an  apple  having  the  rind  pared  off,  chop  the  whole 
very  fine,  to  which  add  two  spoonsful  of  salt,  one  of  pep¬ 
per,  and  an  ounce  or  more  of  butter.  These  being  put 
into  the  goose,  and  secured  in  it  by  tying,  spit  it  and  set  it 
before  the  fire;  singe  it,  and  then  dredge  it  with  flour; 
when  it  becomes  hot  baste  it  with  butter.  Some  cover  the 
breast-bone  with  paper,  which  must  be  taken  off  some  time 
before  the  goose  is  done.  When  it  is  nearly  done,  dredge 
it  again  with  flour,  and  baste  it  till  it  froths.  A  goose 
of  six  pounds’  weight  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  half : 
take  particular  care  in  the  roasting  that  the  fire  is  applied 
to  both  ends  as  well  as  to  the  middle  of  it ;  it  should  be 
thoroughly  done,  and  have  no  red  flesh  on  any  of  the 
bones.  When  the  goose  is  done,  put  it  into  the  dish, 
(some  pour  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  into  it, 
and  serve  it  up  with  apple-sauce  and  mustard  of  course 
but  it  will  also  be  best  to  prepare  some  good  gravy,  am 
when  the  goose  is  cut  up  let  it  be  poured  over  it ;  some  ad< 
a  glass  of  port  wine  to  it. 


ROASTING. - GREEN  GOOSE,  DUCK,  WILD  FOWL.  51 

Note  that,  besides  the  stuffing  mentioned  above,  which 
will  be  more  mild  and  agreeable  if  slightly  boiled  first, 
many  persons  employ  other  things  with  it,  such  as  crumb 
of  bread,  the  parboiled  liver  of  the  goose,  and  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  or  two ;  but  these  are  not  necessary,  and  in  our 
judgment  will  not  improve  the  goose  in  any  way. 

A  GREEN  GOOSE  is  roasted  in  the  same  way  as  the 
preceding,  with  this  difference,  that  some  persons  omit  the 
sage  and  onions  in  the  stuffing,  merely  putting  into  it 
pepper  and  salt ;  when  done,  it  should  be  served  up  with 
gooseberry  sauce :  a  good  gravy  will  also  be  a  necessary 
appendage.  Some  put  sorrel-juice  with  the  gooseberries 
and  a  little  butter :  this  seems  an  unnecessary  fancy.  Gar¬ 
nish  with  grated  crust  of  bread. 

A  DUCK,  properly  drawn,  hung  a  sufficient  time,  and 
trussed,  should  be  stuffed  like  a  goose,  and  roasted  in  a 
similar  way. — See  Goose,  above.  A  duck  of  two  pounds’ 
weight  will  require  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  A 
gravy  nlay  be  made  with  the  gizzard  and  pinions,  an  onion, 
some  lemon-pickle,  a  few  pepper  corns,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  a  spoonful  of  catchup.  This  may  be  poured  strained 
into  the  dish.  Send  up  with  the  duck  some  onion  sauce 
in  a  tureen. 

Note  that,  in  the  use  of  onions  for  sauce,  &c.  for 
this  as  well  as  for  goose,  they  are  made  more  mild  by  being- 
first  slightly  boiled. 

WILD  GEESE,  WILD  DUCKS,  WIDGEON,  TEAL, 
POCHARDS,  and  other  birds  of  the  duck  tribe,  many 
of  which  are  good  eating,  should  be  dressed  and  served 
up  in  a  similar  way  to  the  goose  and  the  duck  above  de¬ 
scribed  ;  but  as  they  are  not  so  large  as  the  tame  birds, 
they  will  take  less  time  in  the  dressing-:  an  hour  will, 
in  general,  be  sufficient  for  a  wild  goose  ;  half  an  hour  for 
a  wild  duck  :  some,  indeed,  allow  this  last  only  twenty 
minutes.  The  smaller  birds,  such  as  widgeon,  teal,  &c. 
require  still  less  time. 

A  FOWL  or  CAPON,  having  hung  a  day  or  two  at 
least,  being  properly  trussed,  should  be  put  down  to  a 
good  fire ;  singe,  flour,  and  baste  it  well  with  butter. 
A  fowl  in  general  requires  one  hour  to  roast ;  a  large  one 
more  time  than  this,  a  small  one  less. 

d  2 


52  ROASTING.  —  CHICKEN,  PIGEON,  PHEASANT. 

Note. — Some  stuff  a  fowl  the  same  as  a  turkey ,  which 
see.  But  it  is  frequently  dressed  without  any  stuffing. 
When  it  is  done  and  properly  browned,  which  it  ought 
always  to  be,  serve  it  up  with  a  gravy  made  from  the  head 
and  neck,  or  good  beef  gravy,  egg,  mushroon,  or  celery 
sauce.  Bacon,  ham,  or  tongue,  is  a  common  accompani¬ 
ment  to  a  roasted  fowl. 

CHICKEN  are  dressed  in  a  similar  way  to  fowl,  but 
without  stuffing  ;  they  usually  require  about  half  an  hour ; 
a  small  one  not  so  long.  Parsley  and  butter  may  be  poured 
over  them :  serve  some  gravy  in  a  boat.  Asparagus  is 
their  luxurious  accompaniment. 

A  PIGEON  being  drawn,  and  the  craw  taken  out,  let 
it  be  washed  in  several  waters,  and  then  dried  with  a  cloth ; 
chop  some  parsley,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
mixed  with  a  lump  of  butter,  for  stuffing.  Spit,  dredge 
it  with  flour,  and  baste  with  butter ;  it  will  be  done  in 
about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  it  up  with  parsley  and  butter, 
and  garnish  with  asparagus  if  in  season.  A  uood-pigeon 
requires  similar  treatment :  it  may  be  served  up  with 
gravy. 

A  PHEASANT  or  PARTRIDGE  is  dressed  either 
as  a  fowl  or  turkey ;  both  are  usually  stuffed.  Dr. 
Kitchener  recommends  a  beef-steak  to  be  put  inside  a 
pheasant  before  setting  it  down  to  roast,  to  improve  its 
flavour.  We  see  no  necessity  for  this  addition ;  we  think 
the  pheasant,  when  tender  and  properly  dressed,  a  delicious 
dish.  The  doctor  must  have  been  rather  unfortunate  in 
his  experience  with  this  bird,  as  he  says  that  “  its  rarity 
is  its  best  recommendation.” 

Note  that  gastronomers  often  keep  this  bird  a  week, 
in  order  to  give  it  that  peculiar  haut  gout,  in  their  estima¬ 
tion  its  chief  merit ;  but  those  who  desire  a  pleasant  and 
wholesome  dish  will  avoid  such  an  extreme,  notwithstand¬ 
ing  it  should  have  little  more  than  “  the  flavour  of  a  com¬ 
mon  fowl.” — Why,  a  common  fowl  wTell-dressed  is  itself  a 
vdiolesome  as  well  as  a  luxurious  repast. 

A  pheasant  requires  about  half  an  hour  to  roast;  it 
should  be  served  up  with  good  gravy,  into  which  some 
put  a  bit  of  garlic,  and  bread  sauce.  It  is  usual  to  fix  one 
of  the  principal  feathers  of  the  bird  in  the  tail. 


ROASTING.  —  PARTRIDGE,  GUINEA-FOWL,  8tC.  53 

A  partridge  requires  at  least  twenty  minutes  or  more 
roasting.  It  may  be  served  up  with  good  gravy  and  bread 
sauce :  some  serve  it  up  with  rice  sauce. 

A  GUINEA  FOWL,  called  commonly  Gallina  or 
Gating,  is  dressed  in  a  similar  way  to  a  pheasant;  it  is 
always  stuffed.  It  is  an  elegant  as  well  as  a  nutricious 
dish;  but  in  this  country  always  an  expensive  one. 

PEA-FOWLS  are  dressed  in  a  similar  way  to  the  pro¬ 
ceeding;  but  they  are  not  often  the  objects  of  the  cook’s 
care. 

A  WOODCOCK  or  SNIPE.  These  birds  are  never- 
drawn,  but  roasted  with  all  the  intestines  within  them. 
When  they  are  properly  trussed,  spitted,  and  laid  down  to 
the  fire,  toast  the  round  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread,  nicely 
brown,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  under  the  bird;  baste  with  a 
little  butter,  and  let  the  entrails  drop  on  the  toast.  When 
the  bird  is  done,  put  the  toast  in  a  dish,  and  lay  the  bird 
on  it.  Some  pour  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  send  up  some 
also  in  a  boat,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon ;  while 
others  say,  that  butter  only  should  be  eaten  writh  it ;  that 
gravy  takes  off  their  flavour.  Mrs.  Rundell  cautions  the 
carver,  in  helping  it,  to  remove  “  a  small  bitter  bag  in  the 
trail;”  which,  and  the  dressing  of  the  intestines  of  these 
birds  prove  that  they  are  dishes  to  which  epicureans,  as  far 
as  we  are  concerned,  are  heartily  welcome!  A  woodcock 
requires  about  twenty  minutes  or  more  to  roast;  a  snipe 
about  fifteen. 

RUFFS  AND  REEVES,  which  are  found  in  England, 
chiefly  in  Lincolnshire  and  the  Isle  of  Ely,  are  a  delicacy; 
they  are  trussed  like  wToodcocks,  but  not  dressed  like  them 
;  with  the  entrails.  They  take  about  twelve  minutes  to  roast, 
j  Serve  them  up  with  gravy  and  bread  sauce  ;  garnish  with 
|  crisp  crumbs  of  bread. 

A  GREEN  PLOVER  must  be  roasted  without  drawing, 
jj  like  the  woodcock,  and  served  similarly  on  a  toast.  A 
grey  plover  is  sometimes  roasted ;  hut  it  is  generally 
i  esteemed  better  stewed.  See  Stewing. 

LARKS,  WHEATEARS,  SPxLRROWS,  and  other 
f  small  birds.  Let  them  be  drawn,  and  then  put  them  on  a 
skewer  ;  tie  both  ends  of  the  skewer  to  the  spit ;  dredge 
and  baste  them  with  butter  or  delicate  dripping :  ten  or  a 


54 


ROASTING. - MOOR  GAME,  FISH. 


few  more  minutes  will  be  sufficient  to  roast  them.  Have 
ready  the  following' :  break  half  a  penny  loaf  into  crumbs, 
and  put  them,  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  into  a  frying 
or  stew-pan,  and  shake  them  over  a  gentle  fire  till  they 
become  a  light  brown ;  lay  them  between  the  birds,  and 
pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them. 

Note. — Instead  of  dredging  with  flour,  some  strew  bread 
crumbs  over  the  birds  while  roasting,  which  is  the  better 
way. 

MOOR  GAME,  such  as  Black  Cocks,  Grouse,  Quails, 
and  other  birds  of  the  partridge  tribe,  are  to  be  dressed  in 
a  similar  way  to  the  partridge  or  the  pheasant,  which  see. 
Of  course  the  time  of  their  roasting  will  depend  upon  the 
size  of  the  bird;  a  quail,  being  small,  will  be  done  in  ten  or 
at  most  fifteen  minutes. 

Note,  some  roast  quails,  like  woodcocks  and  snipes, 
with  the  intestines  in  them ;  but  we,  as  sober  family  cooks, 
do  not  approve  of  roasting  any  birds  with  their  intestines  ; 
they  are  assuredly  more  wholesome  without  them. 

OF  THE  ROASTING  OF  FISH.  Some  of  the 
cookery  books  describe  the  roasting  of  Cod's  Head, 
Cod's  Sounds,  Sturgeon,  Lobsters,  and  a  few  other  fish  ; 
but  as  all  these  are  much  better  baked  or  otherwise 
dressed,  we  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  enlarge  under  this 
section ;  we  may,  however,  just  observe,  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  in  dressing  food  generally,  as  well  as  fish  in 
particular,  whatever  process  contributes  most  to  the  re¬ 
tention  of  its  nutritive  qualities  within  it  during  its  cooking- 
must  be  the  best.  Hence  the  baking,  as  well  as  the  broiling 
and  the  frying  of  fish,  is,  for  many  of  them  at  least, 
better  than  boiling :  indeed  baking,  broiling,  and  frying, 
are  merely  roasting  in  other  forms  ;  and  they  all  are,  more 
or  less,  well  suited  to  the  preparation  of  fish  as  well  as 
other  food  for  the  human  stomach ;  for  Cod’s  Head 
roasted,  therefore,  see  Cod’s  Head  baked. 


55 


CHAPTER  IV. 


BAKING. 


An  ancient,  very  useful  art ! 

Even  Pharoah,  the  Egyptian  king 

Had  Bakers,  wholesome  bread  to  bring; — 

But  now  Improvement’s  rolling  tide 
Hath  well  applied  ‘ 

Bakina  to  all  the  food  of  man. 

3:  J  *  *  * 

Hail,  KNOWLEDGE!  hail! 

Thy  powerful  flail 
Shall  pass  o’er  every  art,  and  fling 
The  chaff  unto  the  winds  ;  thy  servants.  Heat 
And  Steam  ! 


General  Observations. — As  we  have  stated  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  last  chapter,  under  the  section  Roasting 
of  Fish,  that  baking  is  well  suited  for  the  preparation  of 
a  great  variety  of  food,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  enlarge 
upon  this  subject  here.  As,  however,  baking  is  carried  on 
by  various  apparatus,  it  is  desirable  that  the  economical 
housekeeper  and  cook  should  be  well  acquainted  with  the 
different  methods  now  employed  to  conduct  this  useful  and 
convenient  operation.  To  this  end  our  Introduction  should 
be,  by  all  means,  consulted  under  the  section  on  the  instru¬ 
ments  and  apparatus  used  in  cookery.  In  London  the 
generality  of  persons  consign  the  office  of  baking  to  a  pro¬ 
fessed  baker,  who  performs  it  at  much  less  expense  than  it 
can  be  done  at  home ;  but  where  a  baker  does  not  reside,  it 
is  quite  necessary  that  the  best  and  most  economical  method 
of  baking  should  be  well  known  :  for  “  Baking,”  to  use 
the  expressions  employed  by  a  professed  baker  in  Dr. 
Kitchiner’s  work,  “  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most 
convenient  ways  of  dressing  a  dinner  in  small  families.”  It 
is  true  that  from  the  great  variety  of  the  dishes  usually 
baked  in  a  baker’s  oven,  they  may  not  all  of  them  be  so 
free  from  a  mixture  of  smells  as  when  baked  at  home  ;  but 
a  hare,  a  goose,  and  a  turkey,  may  be  mentioned  in  par¬ 
ticular  as  dishes  which,  when  well  baked  by  our  London 
bakers,  may  compete  even  with  the  same  dishes  when 


56 


BAKING. - RUMP  OF  BEEF. 


roasted  at  home.  There  is,  moreover,  in  baking-  one  con¬ 
dition  of  which  we  may  be  assured,  and  that  is,  the  dish, 
whatever  it  might  be,  is  equally  and  all  over  done ;  a  con¬ 
dition  not  always  to  be  obtained  by  the  most  careful  roast¬ 
ing  ;  but  one,  nevertheless,  in  cooking  and  economy  not  to 
be  neglected. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remind  the  cook  that  all  the 
dishes  or  other  vessels  in  which  any  thing  is  baked  should 
be  made  carefully  clean ;  and  that  a  vessel  in  which  fish  has 
been  baked,  in  particular,  should  be  wholly  freed  from  its 
fishy  smell  before  being  employed,  if  employed  at  all,  in  the 
baking  of  meat. 

In  baking  butchers'  meat  generally ,  as  well  as  poultry, 
hares,  pigs,  and  indeed  all  the  articles  mentioned  in  our  section 
on  roasting,  it  may  be  just  observed  that  nothing  more  is  ne¬ 
cessary  than  to  prepare  them  in  every  particular  as  for  roast¬ 
ing;  and  that  some  of  the  joints,  as  well  as  hares  and  pigs, 
ought  to  be  basted  several  times  during  their  baking. 
The  time  required  for  baking  meat,  &c.,  is  similar  to  that 
required  for  roasting ;  in  baking,  however,  something  will 
necessarily  depend  upon  the  degree  of  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

With  these  general  observations  we  might  dismiss  this 
chapter  of  our  work ;  but  a  few-  dishes,  as  well  as  fish, 
require  more  particular  notice. 

AN  EXCELLENT  AND  ECONOMICAL  DISH 
FOR  A  FAMILY.  Take  any  joint  of  meat  you  please, 
a  loin  of  veal,  or  a  large  shoulder  of  mutton,  prepare 
it  as  for  roasting.  Prepare  also  some  suet  pudding 
without  eggs,  and  place  it  round  one  side  of  your  dish  ; 
fill  up  the  remainder  of  the  dish  with  potatoes,  over 
which  lay  the  veal ;  bake  the  whole  together ;  the  gravy 
of  the  veal  or  mutton  wThich  runs  out  during  the  baking 
will  be  absorbed  in  part  by  the  potatoes  and  pudding ;  a 
better  family  dish  can  scarcely  be  conceived.  It  may  be 
served  op  in  the  dish  in  w'hich  it  is  baked;  a  homely  but 
nevertheless  the  best  w>ay. 

A  RUMP  OF  BEEF  is  sometimes  prepared  for  baking 
thus:  cut  the  bone  out  and  beat  the  flesh  well  with  a  rolling- 
pin,  or  a  better  vray  wall  be  to  let  it  hang  til!  it  is  tender ;  lard 
it  with  bacon  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cloves,  or 
mace.  Put  it  into  an  earthen  pot  with  the  bones  broken, 


BAKING.  —  CALF’S  HEAD,  MOCK  TURTLE,  &C.  57 

half  a  pound  of  butter,  some  bay  leaves,  whole  pepper,  a 
shallot  or  two,  and  some  sweet  herbs.  Cover  the  pot  and 
set  it  in  an  oven  for  six  or  more  hours.  It  should  be  served 
up  with  dried  sippets  of  bread  and  its  owrn  liquor.  Some 
order  besides,  a  ragout  of  mushrooms,  truffles,  forcemeat- 
balls,  and  yolks  of  eggs.  The  fat,  if  too  much,  may  be 
taken  off. 

Note. — We  cannot  avoid  considering  this  an  unneces¬ 
sary  dish. 

A  CALF’S  HEAD,  being  properly  cleansed,  divided  in 
two,  and  the  brains  taken  out,  put  some  iron  skewers  on  the 
top  of  a  dish  well  buttered,  and  lay  the  head  on  them. 
Grate  some  nutmeg  over  the  head,  upon  which  also  strew 
some  sweet  herbs,  a  little  lemon-peel,  both  chopped  fine, 
and  also  some  crumb  of  bread,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Flour  it  all  over,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  the  eyes  and  other 
parts,  then  bake  it  till  it  is  a  nice  brown.  Some  put  into 
the  dish  a  piece  of  beef  cut  into  small  pieces,  a  handful  of 
sweet  herbs,  some  whole  pepper,  mace,  and  cloves;  to 
which  should  be  added  a  pint  of  water.  The  brains  should 
be  boiled  in  a  little  water  or  milk,  with  some  sage  ;  when 
the  head  is  done,  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  set  it  by  the  fire  to 
keep  warm.  Take  the  beef,  &c.,  in  the  dish,  and  boil  the 
whole  in  a  saucepan  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  it  off ; 
put  the  strained  liquor  into  the  saucepan  again,  to  which 
add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  Hour,  and  the  boiled  sage 
chopped  fine,  a  spoonful  of  catchup  and  two  spoonfuls  of 
port  wine ;  boil  these  together  for  a  minute  or  two,  and 
mix  the  brains  well  beaten  with  them  :  pour  this  sauce 
over  the  head,  and  serve  it  up.  The  tongue  should  be  baked 
in  the  head. 

Note. — This  is  another  of  those  complicated  dishes  which 
jimay,  with  a  very  little  ingenuity,  be  dressed  in  a  much 
liimore  simple  and  better  way  :  there  can  be  no  doubt  however 
fthat  a  baked  calf’s  head  is  a  wholesome  and  nutritious  dish. 

MOCK  TURTLE  baked,  see  page  21,  under  Mock 
Turtle. 

A  BULLOCK’S  HE/YRT  is  one  of  the  dishes  which  baking 
will  render  excellent.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  the  follow¬ 
ing:  crumbs  of  bread,  (the  quantity  must  depend  upon 
the  size  of  the  heart,  four  ounces  will  in  general  be 

d  3 


58  BAKING. —  CALF’S  HEART,  PIG,  TURBOT. 

enough),  chopped  suet  or  butter,  about  two  ounces, 
parsley,  and  sweet  marjoram,  chopped  lemon-peel  grated, 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  let  all 
these  be  well  mixed  and  stuffed  into  the  heart.  Let  it  be 
baked  ;  it  will  require  full  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  each 
pound  which  it  weighs,  as  it  is  always  of  considerable  thick¬ 
ness.  Serve  it  up  with  gravy,  melted  butter,  and  currant 
jelly.  A  heart  is  often  roasted,  and,  if  so,  it  must  be 
stuffed  and  treated  exactly  as  above  for  baking ;  but  this 
last  is  the  most  certain  method  of  its  being  uniformly  done. 
As  food,  heart  is  not  so  agreeable  to  many  stomachs  as 
beef  or  mutton;  and  therefore  a  hearty  meal  of  it  ought 
rather  to  be  avoided. 

A  CALF’S  HEART  may  be  also  dressed  in  a  similar  way. 

Note. — Many  good  housewives  say  that  a  heart  is  always 
better  roasted  than  baked. 

A  PIG  for  baking  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar  way  to 
that  which  we  have  directed  for  roasting  it,  see  page  46,  but 
some  will  add  to  the  stuffing  a  little  chopped  sage.  It  will 
be  also  advisable  when  the  pig  is  done  to  take  it  out  of  the 
oven,  rub  it  over  with  a  buttered  cloth,  and  put  it  again 
into  the  oven  till  it  is  dry.  The  fat  which  is  on  the  gravy 
in  the  dish  should  also  be  taken  off ;  and  to  the  gravy 
be  added  a  little  of  veal  or  other  good  gravy ;  these  being 
mixed  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  the  brains  and  the  sage 
from  the  belly  of  the  pig,  should  be  boiled  together  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  then  poured  into  the  dish  to  the  pig  : 
it  should  be  served  up  hot,  with  mustard  and  apple  sauce  of 
course ;  and  it  will  be  best  if  carved  before  it  is  sent  to  the 
table. 

A  TURBOT  is,  as  usually  baked,  an  expensive  dish ; 
but  we  suppose  an  epicurean  will  admire  it.  Rub,  first, 
butter  pretty  thickly  over  a  dish  about  the  size  of  the 
fish,  then  put  in  a  little  salt,  pepper,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
some  parsely  chopped  fine,  to  which  add  a  pint  of  white 
wine ;  cut  off  the  head  and  tail  of  the  fish  and  lay  it  in  a 
dish,  over  which  pour  another  pint  of  wrine  ;  grate  the  other 
half  of  the  nutmeg  over  it,  strewing  on  also  a  little  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  chopped  parsley.  Lay  also  thick  pieces  of 
butter  on  it,  strew  it  with  flour  and  crumbs  of  bread,  and 
send  it  to  the  oven :  it  should  be  done  a  fine  brown.  Put 


BAKING. —  SALMON,  PIKE.  59 

the  turbot  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Put 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  baked  into  a  saucepan,  shake  in 
a  little  flour,  to  which  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  two  spoon¬ 
fuls  of  atchup;  boil  these  together  for  a  few  minutes. 
Pour  it  into  tureens  and  serve  up  the  fish,  adding  other  fish 
sauce  at  pleasure.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

A  SALMON,  being  gutted  and  wTell  cleansed,  must  be 
cut  into  slices  of  about  an  inch  thick.  Prepare  a  forcemeat 
thus :  take  some  of  the  salmon,  the  same  quantity  of  an 
eel,  a  few  mushrooms,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  cloves, 

!  beat  all  together  till  it  is  very  fine ;  boil  now  the  crumb  of 
a  roll  milk,  and  beat  it  up  with  four  eggs ;  mix  these 
with  the  preceding.  Cover  every  slice  of  salmon  with  the 
forcemeat  and  put  bits  of  butter  over  it,  placing  oysters 
round  the  dish  ;  place  the  dish  in  the  oven,  and  when  of  a 
fine  brown,  pour  over  it  a  little  melted  butter  mixed  with 
port  wine,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  to  which  some  add  cayenne 
pepper,  and  serve  it  up  hot. 

Note. — Some  strip  the  skin  from  the  slices  of  salmon  be- 
;  fore  they  are  baked ;  but  we  see  no  necessity  for  so  doing. 

'  The  salmon  and  eel  may  be  omitted  in  the  forcemeat ; 
they  are  troublesome  to  prepare  and  quite  unnecessary. 
A  little  good  gravy  being  poured  into  the  dish  before  it  is 
put  into  the  oven  will  be,  however,  advantageous.  It  will 
be  advisable  to  fix  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper  over  the  dish 
before  it  is  placed  in  the  oven. 

A  PIKE,  or  JACK  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  should 
be  gutted  without  being  completely  cut  open,  so  that  it  may 
contain  the  stuffing ;  care  being  also  taken  that  it  is  well 
cleansed:  for  the  stuffing  see  the  Boiling  of  Pike, 
page  16 ;  but  some  cooks  make  it  more  complicated, 
adding,  besides,  the  udder  of  veal  or  the  kidney-part  of 
a  loin  of  lamb,  the  roe  or  the  milt  of  the  fish,  the  liver, 
&c.  for  which  there  seems  to  be  no  necessity.  When  the 
fish  is  stuffed,  rub  the  yolk  of  an  egg  over  it,  and  strew 
pn  it  also  some  crumb  of  bread  and  grated  nutmeg ;  stick 
on  it  a  bit  of  butter  here  and  there ;  half  a  pint,  or  even 
more,  of  gravy  or  good  broth  should  be  placed  in  the  dish  : 
bake  it  an  oven  moderately  heated.  The  time  required  for 
iit  must  be  proportioned  to  its  size.  Let  it  be  served  up  with 
the  following  sauce :  take  the  gravy  in  which  it  has  been 
baked,  and  add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  a 


60 


BAKING. - PIPER,  COD*S  HEAD. 

little  soy  or  catchup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  (to  which  some 
add  minced  shalot,)  and  some  butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  let 
these  be  boiled  together  for  a  few  minutes  ;  pour  the  same 
into  the  dish,  and  serve  the  fish  up.  Garnish  with  fried 
parsley. 

Note.—  Some  have  the  fancy  of  cutting  a  notch  along 
the  back  of  the  fish,  and  bending  it  into  a  circle  with  the 
tail  in  its  mouth,  before  baking  it ;  but  this  is  a  crotchet 
which  may  be  well  omitted. 

Note. — A  PIPER  is  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  a 
Pike. 

A  COD'S  HEAD  being  thoroughly  cleansed,  lay  it  in 
a  dish  rubbed  over  with  butter,  to  which  add  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  few  blades  of 
mace,  some  pepper,  a  grated  nutmeg,  some  Jemon-peel, 
sliced  horse-radish,  and  one  quart  of  water.  Dredge  the 
head  with  flour,  and  grate  nutmeg  over  it ;  stick  bits  of 
butter  on  various  parts  of  it  ;  then  sprinkle  raspings  of 
bread  all  over  it,  and  place  it  in  the  oven.  When  it  is 
done  put  the  head  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served  up,  and  take  means  to  keep  it  hot  while  you  proceed 
thus :  pour  into  a  saucepan  all  the  liquor  that  is  in  the 
dish  in  which  the  head  was  baked  ;  boil  it  a  little  and  then 
strain  it  off,  putting  into  the  strained  gravy  two  glasses 
of  port-wine,  two  spoonfuls  of  catchup,  a  pint  of  shrimps 
or  their  shells,  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  a  pint  of  mushroom- 
pickle,  and  four  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  mix  all 
together,  and  boil  till  it  is  thick  ;  strain  the  gravy  off,  and 
pour  it  into  the  dish;  stick  some  toasted  bread  three-corner- 
wise,  and  fried  crisp,  about  the  mouth,  laying  the  re¬ 
mainder  around  the  head.  Garnish  with  crisped  parsley, 
notched  lemon,  and  scraped  horse-radish. 

Note. — A  cod’s  head  may  be  baked  in  a  much  more 
simple  and  more  wholesome  way  than  this,  which  any  cook 
with  a  little  ingenuity  can  devise:  it  may  be  simply  dredged 
with  flour,  have  bits  of  butter  stuck  on  it,  with  some  good 
broth  or  gravy  in  the  dish,  baked,  and,  when  done,  be 
served  up  with  any  sauce  you  please.  Every  economist 
will  assuredly  prefer  this  last  method. 

A  Cod's  Head,  being  prepared  as  above,  may  be  roasted 
in  a  tin  oven  before  the  fire  or  placed  in  a  large  stew-pan  ; 
it  should  be  floured  and  basted  with  butter,  and  turned 


61 


BAKING.  —  CARP,  EELS. 

often  in  order  that  every  side  may  be  equally  done.  The 
ji  gravy  and  the  serving-  up  must  be  the  same  as  for  baked  cod. 

A  CARP,  of  a  moderate  size,  being-  cleansed,  must  be 
put  into  a  dish  long  enough  to  hold  it  at  full  length,  and 
well  rubbed  round  with  butter  ;  season  it  with  sweet  herbs, 
pepper,  mace,  cloves,  nutmeg,  an  onion,  and  an  anchovy ; 
to  which  some  add  scraped  horse-radish,  lemon-peel,  and 
a  quart  of  water  (some,  instead,  use  a  bottle  of  white 
| wine)  ;  cover  it  over,  and  put  it  into  the  oven:  it  will  be 
done  in  an  hour  or  less.  When  done,  place  the  carp  in 
a  dish  so  as  to  keep  it  hot ;  boil  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
j baked  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  strain  it,  taking  off 
I  the  fat ;  to  the  strained  liquor  add  four  ounces  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour;  and  also  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a 
little  salt.  Warm  the  whole  together,  stirring  continually; 
j  pour  this  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve  it  up,  the  roe  being- 
laid  round  it ;  and  garnish  with  lemon-peel. 

Note. — A  carp  may  be  dressed  like  this,  with  the 
addition  of  stuffing,  as  described  under  Boiled  Pike, 

|  (page  16,)  which  see. 

I  _  EELS  and  LAMPR.EYS,  having  their  heads  cut  off, 

(I  being  gutted,  skinned,  and  cleansed  from  the  blood  and 
•  bone,  may  be  stuffed  thus:  take  some  shrimps  or  oysters 
ij  chopped  small,  half  a  penny  loaf  crumbled,  lemon-peel, 
the  yolk  of  tw-o  eggs,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  ;  let 
I  this  be  sewed  in  the  bellies,  and  form  the  fish  into  circles  in  the 
j  dish  ;  put  flour  and  butter  over  them,  pour  a  little  water 
ij  into  the  dish,  and  bake  them  gently.  When  done,  take 
i  the  gravy  from  the  dish,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
(  add  to  it  a  little  walnut-catchup,  some  lemon-pickle, 
j  browning,  a  glass  of  wdiite  wine,  an  anchovy,  and  a  slice  of 
lemon.  Thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  and  boil  for  ten 
!  minutes.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

Note. — Eels  may  be  baked  in  a  much  more  simple  and 
!j  a  shorter  way  than  this  ;  namely,  by  cutting  them,  after 
J  being  skinned,  into  pieces  of  about  three  inches  long, 
j  strewing  over  them  such  seasoning  as  you  like,  and  putting- 
on  them  a  few  bits  of  butter,  and  a  little  water  in 
the  dish.  They  may  be  served  up  with  what  sauce  you 
choose  ;  melted  butter  and  catchup  mixed  is,  perhaps,  the 
best.  See  on  skinning  Eels,  page  69. 


62  BAKING.  —  MACKAREL,  HERRINGS,  SPRATS. 

MACKAREL. — Their  heads  being-  cut  off,  wash  and 
dry  them  with  a  cloth,  cut  them  open,  gut  them,  and  then  rub 
the  bone  with  a  little  salt ;  beat  fine  some  mace,  black 
pepper,  and  a  few  cloves  for  a  seasoning-.  Lay  now  the 
fish  in  a  pan,  and  between  every  layer  put  two  or  three 
bay-leaves,  sprinkling  the  seasoning  over  them  as  you 
proceed  ;  cover  them  with  vinegar,  and  let  them  be  tied 
well  over  first  with  writing-paper  and  then  with  a  cloth. 
They  should  be  put  into  a  very  slow  oven,  and  will  take  a 
long  time  baking;  three  hours  or  more,  depending-  in  some 
degree  upon  their  size. 

Note  that  besides  this,  some  pour  off  all  the  vinegar 
and  cover  them  again  with  fresh  vinegar,  adding  an  onion 
stuck  with  cloves,  and  baking  for  two  hours  more ;  a 
method  to  spoil  them  most  effectually,  as  so  much  acid  will 
contribute  to  the  decomposition  of  the  fish. 

This  dish  will  keep  good  for  a  long  time,  and  is  a  nice 
relish. 

HERRINGS  must  be  headed,  scaled,  gutted,  washed 
and  wiped  dry  with  a  cloth;  then  mix  some  black  pepper, 
a  few  cloves,  and  salt  together,  and  strew  them  over  the 
fish  as  you  lay  them  straight  in  the  pan,  putting  in  a  few 
bay-leaves ;  tie  paper  over  them,  and  afterwards  a  cloth ; 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven.  They  may  be  eaten  either 
hot  or  cold;  they  will  keep  many  months.  Herrings,  being- 
smaller,  require  less  time  in  baking  than  mackarel. 

SPRATS  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way;  they  may 
be  headed  and  otherwise  cleaned,  but  not  gutted. 

Note.  —  Some  order  red  wine  to  be  put  with  the  vinegar 
in  the  baking-  of  sprats ;  but  if  the  luxurious  will  have 
wine  with  them  they  would  do  well  to  eat  the  sprats  first, 
and  drink  the  wine  afterwards  ;  a  better  and,  we  presume, 
to  most,  a  more  agreeable  method  ! 

Sprats  may  he  baked  in  a  slow  oven  two  or  three  hours. 

In  regard  to  the  Baking  of  Fish  generally,  it  may  be 
useful  to  observe  here  that  the  heat  of  the  oven  should  be 
very  moderate ;  that  which  exists  after  the  batch  of  bread 
is  taken  out  is  often  employed  for  it :  the  time  is  not  of  so 
much  consequence  as  where  the  heat  is  intense  :  fish  have 
been  sometimes  left  in  a  slow  oven  a  whole  night  without 
injury. 


63 


CHAPTER  V. 

BROILING. 


The  careful  cook  should  understand 
Bright  fire  is  Broiling’s  chief  demand  ; 
Its  absence  will  her  temper  try 
What  time  her  mistress  cries  oh  fie  ! 
When  loud  complaint  is  sent  down  stairs. 
Avoid,  so  please  you,  any  airs. 

And  bear  reproof  becomingly  ; 

Put,  too,  aside  the  tart  reply; 

To  please,  in  future,  promise,  try  ! 


General  Observations. — -Many  directions  for  broiling 
are  not  necessary  ;  our  motto  above  contains  the  chief.  It 
is  said  that  the  best  fuel  for  broiling  is  a  compound  of 
charcoal  and  coke  ;  hut  suppose  neither  of  these  are  at 
hand  or  to  be  had,  what  then  ?  Why,  have  the  best  fire 
you  can  to  be  sure.  We  believe,  however,  that  an  ex¬ 
cellent  fire  may  be  obtained,  with  moderate  care,  from 
common  coal ;  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  repeat  that  it 
should  be  at  once  clear,  bright,  and  intense :  and  that  the 
best  gridiron  is  that  having  hollow  bars,  which  it  will  be 
a  prudent  precaution  to  grease  before  you  lay  on  the  meat ; 
and  that  ought,  as  a  general  rule,  to  be  turned  often  during 
the  time  of  its  broiling  ;  but  beef-steaks  are  an  exception 
in  this  particular.  Small  fish  also  require  to  be  turned 
but  once. 

We  might  here  enter  (after  the  manner  of  some  of  our 
contemporaries)  into  a  somewhat  learned  dissertation  con- 

[icerning  the  thickness  necessary  to  be  given  to  steaks, 
chops,  &c. ;  but  as  that  useful  and  harmless  carnifex,  the 
butcher ,  generally  saves  us  most  of  such  trouble,  our 
learning  may  be,  for  the  present  at  any  rate,  dispensed 
with  ;  we  may  just  observe,  for  the  advantage  of  those 
who  choose  to  become  their  own  cutters  of  steaks  and 
chops,  that  the  thickness  of  somewhat  more  than  half  an 
inch,  and  not  more  than  three  quarters,  will  be  found  the 
best ;  that  an  inch  will  be  found  too  thick,  and  less  than 
half  an  inch  generally  too  thin.  We  care  not,  in  this 


t>4 


BROILING.  —  BEEF-STEAKS. 


instance,  a  whit  for  the  dictum  of  the  Beef-steak  Club , 
whether  in  accordance  with  these  directions  or  not :  our 
dicta  are  founded  on  experience — the  best  and  surest 
teacher. 

Note  that  all  fish  before  being  broiled  should  be 
floured.  It  is  of  consequence  that  the  dish  in  which  the 
broiled  steak,  &c.  are  to  be  served  up  should  be  kept  hot 
before  the  fire  or  over  a  chaffing-dish  of  hot  coals,  in  order 
that  the  steak  or  other  food  as  it  is  done  may  be  put  into 
it,  and  there  kept  hot  till  all  is  ready. 

These  few  general  directions  will  be  sufficient  for  broiling 
almost  any  thing  ;  a  few  articles  may  be,  notwithstanding, 
specifically  mentioned. 

BEEF-STEAKS  from  the  rump  are  by  all  allowed  to 
be  the  best,  unless,  indeed,  you  extravagantly  sacrifice  the 
inside  meat  of  a  sirloin,  which  will  be  a  superlative  bonne 
bouche.  Some  choose  to  beat  the  steak  well  before  dres¬ 
sing  it ;  others  disapprove  of  beating  :  we  see  no  necessity 
for  it  if  the  beef  be  tender,  to  which  end  it  should  not  be 
cut  from  meat  recently  killed.  When  the  gridiron  is  hot,  | 
being  previously  greased  and  placed  in  a  sloping  position, 
so  that  the  fat,  &c..  which  runs  from  the  steak  may  be 
prevented  as  much  as  possible  from  dropping  into  the  fire, 
lay  the  steak  on  it,  and  let  it  remain  on  one  side  till  it 
begins  to  look  brown  ;  turn  it  on  the  other  side,  and  if  any 
gravy  collect  in  the  steak,  take  the  steak  off  the  gridiron 
with  a  steak-tongs  and  pour  the  gravy  into  the  dish  ;  re¬ 
turn  it  to  the  gridiron  and  broil  it  till  the  other  side  is 
brown  and  done  as  you  desire  it :  for  here  it  will  be  neces¬ 
sary  to  dress  it  to  the  taste  of  the  person  who  is  to  eat  it ; 
some  require  it  little,  others  much,  and  some  only  mode¬ 
rately  done :  this  must  be  determined  by  cutting  it  a  little 
open  with  a  knife.  Some  will  have  the  steaks  salted  and 
peppered  before  they  are  dressed ;  others  prefer  such  sea¬ 
soning  after  they  are  done  and  laid  in  the  dish  with  bits  of 
butter  on  them.  Some  will  also  serve  them  up  with 
chopped  onions  or  shalots  mixed  with  the  gravy  in  the 
dish  ;  others  choose  neither.  Scraped  horse-radish  is  always 
desirable  ;  you  may  also  send  up  a  garnish  of  pickles. 

Note. — We  direct  the  steaks  to  be  turned  but  once  ; 
but  a  lady,  an  excellent  cook,  of  our  acquaintance,  turns 


BROILING. - BEEF  SKIRT,  MUTTON  CHOPS.  65 


them  very  often ;  choose,  therefore,  which  method  you 
please :  both  with  proper  management  are  g'ood. 

BEEF-SKIRT,  next  to  a  rump-steak,  is  a  very  nice 
dish ;  it  should  be  dressed  as  soon  as  convenient  after  the 
ox  is  killed  and  skinned  before  it  is  broiled  ;  it  contains  a 
larger  quantity  of  gravy  and  is  very  tender.  Some  broil  it 
first  and  take  the  skin  off  afterwards,  and  think  it  the  best 
way. 

MUTTON-CHOPS  are  best  taken  from  the  loin  or  from 
the  neck  ;  the  chief  fault  of  the  mutton-chops  met  with  in 
London  is  that  they  are  eaten  too  soon  after  the  sheep  has 
been  killed,  and  hence  not  tender.  The  skin  and  part  of 
the  fat  should  be  taken  off,  then  lay  them  on  the  gridiron 
and  turn  them  often  till  they  are  done.  Some  season  them 
with  salt  and  pepper  when  they  are  half  done  ;  others  after 
they  are  done,  when  they  may  be  rubbed  over  with  butter : 
pour  on  them  also  some  minced  shalot,  mixed  with  a  little 
catchup.  Serve  them  up  with  scraped  horse-radish  and 
pickles. 

Note,  to  keep  the  gridiron  slanting,  as  directed  for 
beef-steaks,  and  for  the  same  reasons.  Mutton-chops  are 
commonly,  as  wrell  as  beef-steaks,  preferred  more  or  less 
underdone,  but  we  really  see  no  substantial  reason  for  this 
preference. 

PORK-CHOPS  may  be  cut  either  from  the  loin  or 
neck  ;  they  should  be  broiled  in  the  same  way  as  the  pre¬ 
ceding,  but  in  pork  the  skin  is  a  desideratum  if  well  done, 
as  pork-chops  ought  always  to  be.  Strew  a  little  pepper  on 
them,  turn  them  often;  wdien  done,  put  on  a  little  salt 
and  butter  ;  a  little  minced  sage,  mixed  with  a  little  gravy, 
will  improve  the  flavour.  Mustard  is,  perhaps,  the  only 
necessary  sauce. 

A  CHICKEN  must  be  slit  down  the  back,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  laid  on  the  gridiron  at  a  good 
istance  from  the  fire,  in  order  that  it  may  not  be  burnt, 
roil  the  inside  till  it  is  nearly  done,  turn  it,  and  take 
are  that  the  other  side  does  not  burn  ;  broil  it  till  it  be- 

!omes  a  nice  brown.  Serve  it  up  with  good  gravy,  to 
,'hich  add  some  mushrooms,  or  some  parsley  and  butter, 
shalot  minced,  and  a  glass  of  wine.  To  this  some  add 


66  BROLING. — PIGEON,  VEAL  CUTLETS,  &C. 

scalded  sorrel.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  the  livers  and 
gizzards  broiled  with  pepper  and  salt. 

A  PIGEON,  either  whole  or  split,  must  also  be  broiled 
slowly  like  a  chicken.  When  whole,  put  some  parsley, 
chopped  fine,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  half  an  ounce  ofii 
butter  into  the  belly,  tying  up  both  ends.  If  split,  season 
the  inside  with  pepper  and  salt ;  when  done,  serve  it  up 
with  parsley  and  butter,  to  which  some  add  pickled  mush¬ 
rooms  or  catchup. 

Note. — That  some  brush  the  pigeon  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  then  sprinkle  over  it  grated  bread  beforeeS 
laying  it  on  to  broil. 

VEAL-CUTLETS,  LAMB-CHOPS,  and  KIDNEYS 

may,  from  the  preceding  observations,  be  easily  broiled  ; 
kidneys  ought  to  be  cut  into  two.  Veal  cutlets  should 
be  sent  up  with  slices  of  ham  or  bacon. 

STURGEON  should  be  cut  into  cutlets,  similar  to  those 
of  veal,  then  broiled,  and  then  rubbed  over  with  butteT 
and  pepper  ;  or  they  may  be  rubbed  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  over  which  are  strewed  minced  parsley  and  crumbs  oi  l 
bread.  Serve  up  with  melted  butter,  oyster,  or  anchovy 
sauce. 

Note. — Some  inclose  the  cutlets  in  buttered  paper  and 
broil  them  in  it,  but  this  does  not  appear  necessary ;  it  is, 
however,  necessary  to  free  them  from  the  skin  before  they 
are  laid  on  the  gridiron. 

FRESH  SALMON  must  be  cut  into  slices  of  about  ar. 
inch  thick  and  wiped  dryr ;  dip  them  in  swreet  oil  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  or,  instead  of  oil,  dip  them  in  some 
melted  butter  and  broil  them  ;  when  they  are  done  on  one 
side  turn  them  on  the  other.  Serve  up  with  melted  butter 
lobster,  or  shrimp  sauce. 

Note. — Some  recommend  instead  of  these  a  sauce  inte 
which  leeks,  capers,  and  anchovies  enter,  besides  othei 
ingredients.  Some  also  advise  the  salmon’s  being  broilec 
in  buttered  paper  ;  but  baking  is  altogether  better  for  this 
fish. — See  Baking  Salmon,  page  59. 

DRIED  SALMON  should  soak  in  water  for  a  few  hours 
before  it  is  broiled ;  shake  over  it  a  little  pepper ;  whei 
done,  serve  it  up  with  melted  butter. 

COD  should  be  cut  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick 


BROILING. — COD,  MACKAREL,  MULLET,  &C.  67 

and  then  dried  and  floured  well ;  rub  the  gridiron  over  with 
chalk,  lay  the  pieces  of  cod  on  it,  and  turn  them  often  till 
they  are  brown.  Serve  with  lobster  and  shrimp  sauce. 

CRIMP  COD.  Take  a  middle-sized  cod,  and  after  it 
is  properly  cleansed,  cut  it  into  slices  of  about  two  inches 
thick  ;  dissolve  a  handful  of  salt  in  a  gallon  of  water  by 
boiling-,  taking-  off  the  skum,  put  the  slices  of  cod  into  this 
hot  brine,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes ;  take  them  out, 
drain  them  on  a  sieve,  flour  them,  and  broil  them.  Serve 
up  with  lobster,  shrimp,  or  oyster  sauce. 

Note. — Cod  thus  prepared  may  be  also  boiled  or  fried 
as  well  as  broiled. 

CODS’  SOUNDS  should  be  first  soaked  in  hot  water 
for  a  short  time,  then  rubbed  well  with  salt,  the  dirty  skin 
11  taken  off,  and  afterwards  boiled,  or  rather  simmered,  till 
they  become  tender ;  take  them  out  of  the  water,  flour 
ieThem,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  them  whole. 
ei  Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  mustard ;  some  use, 
1C  in  addition,  brown  gravy  and  a  little  soy. 

MACKAREL  being  cleansed,  and  their  heads  cut  off, 
take  out  the  roes  at  the  neck  end  and  boil  them  in  a  little 
water,  and  bruise  them  with  a  spoon ;  beat  up  the  yolk  of 
*  an  egg  with  a  little  nutmeg,  lemon  peel,  thyme,  parsley 
^  -boiled,  and  all  chopped  fine ;  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few 
ie!  crumbs  of  bread ;  mix  the  whole  together,  and  stuff  it  into 
the  bellies  of  the  fish,  flour  them  well  and  broil.  Serve  up 
81  With  melted  butter  and  catchup  or  walnut  pickle. 

5(11 1  Or  mackarel  may  be  split  down  the  back,  sprinkled  with 
M  herbs  and  pepper,  and  then  broiled. 

1)1  A  MULLET  being  scaled,  gutted,  and  having  gashes  in 
its  sides,  should  be  dipped  in  melted  butter  and  broiled 
lowly.  Serve  it  up  with  melted  butter,  having  an  anchovy 
b  ind  some  capers  chopped  in  it,  together  with  the  juice  of  a 
•t'1  femon. 

oi  A  TROUT,  TENCH,  PERCH,  or  GRAYLING,  being 
iroperly  cleansed,  and  dried  with  a  cloth,  must  be  dipped 
k  a  melted  butter,  having  a  good  deal  of  salt  in  it ;  after 
ioi  *  eing  in  the  butter  a  minute  or  two,  take  it  out  and  place 
on  a  gridiron  so  that  it  may  broil  gradually.  It  may  be 
erved  up  with  crimped  parsley  and  plain  butter  ;  some  use 
tlsi 


68  BROILING.  —  WHITING,  HADDOCK,  &C. 

instead,  anchovy,  capers,  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar, 
mixed  with  butter,  as  a  sauce.  But  this  is  not  the  only 
unnecessary  complication  of  which,  in  our  work,  we  have  ' 
to  complain. 

WHITING,  HADDOCK,  and  other  similar  fish,  after 
being  gutted  and  cleansed,  dried  with  a  cloth,  rubbed  over 
with  vinegar,  which  (it  is  said)  prevents  the  skin  from 
breaking,  and  well  dredged  with  flour,  may  then  be  broiled ;  : 
but  while  broiling,  they  should  be  turned  two  or  three  times. 
Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  or  shrimp  sauce. 

HERRINGS,  having  their  head  cut  off,  must  be  gutted, 
scaled,  washed,  dried  with  a  cloth,  floured,  and  then  laid 
on  a  gridiron  to  broil ;  they  need  only  be  turned  once.  They 
may  be  served  up  with  vinegar  and  mustard  ;  some  make  a 
sauce  with  the  heads  boiled  in  ale  or  small  beer,  with  pep¬ 
per  and  an  onion,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  when  it  is 
strained  off,  and  thickened  with  butter,  flour,  and  a  good 
deal  of  mustard  ;  but  this  is  another  complication  to  whichl 
wre  cannot  set  our  signature  of  approbation. 

SPRATS  require  no  preparation  for  broiling’  whatevei 
except  simple  purification,  and  being  dredged  with  flour. 
You  may  eat  them  with  what  sauce  you  please  ;  mustard  is, 
however,  with  many,  a  favourite  condiment.  We  believe 
that  boiling  is  the  best  mode  of  dressing  sprats. 

EELS  being  skinned,  cleansed,  and  dried,  rub  them 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  sprinkle  crumbs  oi 
bread  on  them,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley  and  sage; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  baste  them  with  butter,  and 
broil.  Serve  up  with  parsley  and  butter. 

EELS  SPITCHCOCKED  may  be  dressed  thus  :  having 
prepared  them  as  directed  in  the  last  article,  turn  them 
backwards  and  forwards  and  skewer  them ;  broil  till  they 
are  a  fine  brown,  not  forgetting  to  rub  the  gridiron  wit! 
beef  suet  previously  to  placing  the  eels  on  it.  Serve  them 
up  with  plain  melted  butter. 

Some  dress  them  as  follows :  after  proper  purification, 
they  must  be  slit  down  the  back,  the  bone  taken  out,  and 
then  cut  into  three  or  four  pieces.  Put  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
over  the  inside  ;  sprinkle  on  them  some  crumbs  of  bread, 
sweet  herbs  and  parsley  chopped  fine,  grated  nutmeg,  pep- 


BROILING.  (39 

j  per  and  salt.  Broil,  and  when  of  a  light  brown,  serve  them 
up  with  anchovy  sauce,  and  parsley  and  butter.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  horse-radish. 

Others  prepare  them  as  last  directed,  but  stew  them  with 
butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  shalots  chopped  fine,  and  other  sea¬ 
soning,  for  a  short  time  ;  when  taken  out,  sprinkle  on  them 
crumbs  of  bread  before  you  broil  them.  Sauce  as  above. 

I  Note.  We  have  here,  and  elsewhere  in  our  work,  di¬ 
rected  the  eels  to  be  skinned ;  but  a  practice  has  been 
lately  introduced  of  dressing  them  without  skinning :  we 
see  no  objection  to  this  method ;  the  cook  ought,  however, 
to  take  care  that  the  eels  are  effectually  killed  by  dividing- 
the  head  from  the  back-bone  before  she  subjects  them  to 
any  cooking  process. 


Nota  Bene. 

Our  council  of  cooks  about  broiling  declare 

That  no  steaks,  howe’er  cook’d,  can  with  broiling  compare  • 

I  hat  broiling’s  a  process  they  much  must  commend  •  ’ 

Ol  poor  man  it’s  always  the  readiest  friend  :  ’ 

Return  d  trom  his  labour  and  seated  at  night 

Beside  a  >varm  hearth  and  a  fire  burning  bright. 

While  his  children  in  gambols  around  his  knees  play. 

And  his  wife  with  delight  hails  the  close  of  the  day' 

A  rasher  of  bacon,  a  chop,  or  a  fish, 

Becomes  on  his  coals  a  most  exquisite  dish ! 


f 


CHAPTER  VI. 

FRYING. 


Keep  still  good  temper  always  near  ; 

And  let  your  fire  be  bright  and  clear; 
ATTENTION  must  your  handmaid  be. 

And  never  let  her  from  you  flee. 

What  time  you  fry,  what  time  you  broil, — 
Her  absence  soon  the  food  will  spoil ; — 
Add  gentle  motion  now  and  then — 

A  proof  that  you  your  duty  ken  ; 

And  thus,  with  care,  a  little  sense. 

Your  dish  becomes  all  excellence  ! 


General  Observations.  —  Care  must  be  taken  tha 
the  frying  pan  be  not  only  kept  clean,  but  more  especially 
made  clean,  if  it  be  not  previously  so,  before  putting  the 
article  to  be  fried  into  it.  Some  of  our  Cookery  books  ini 
judiciously  direct  that  it  should  be  properly  tinned  ;  but  : 
should  not  be  tinned  at  all ;  for  one  good  and  sufficier. 
reason,  among  others,  namely,  that  as  sometimes  the  hea 
applied  in  frying  will  be  so  great  as  to  melt  the  tin,  smal 
particles  of  it  will  come  off  and  spoil  the  appearance  of  the! 
dish.  But,  wrhen  the  frying  pan  is  not  tinned,  it  is  essen 
tial  that  it  should  be  made  of  iron,  a  wholesome  metal.  I 
is  true  that,  by  long  use,  iron  frying  pans  will  wear  out 
but  this  must  be  submitted  to.  It  will  be,  however,  a  goo< 
practice  when  the  pan  is  cleaned  before  putting  it  aside  fo 
future  use,  to  rub  it  over  well  with  some  beef  or  mutton 
suet,  (not  dripping,  as  this  may  contain  salt,)  in  order  mon 
effectually  to  prevent  its  rusting. 

Lard,  dripping,  and  other  melted  fats,*  and  even  goo< 
olive  oil,  are  generally  to  be  preferred  to  butter  in  frying 
because  this  last  contains  a  portion  of  butter-milk,  whicl 
will  make  it  froth  and  prevent  the  butter  from  acquiring  the 
heat  necessary  to  the  proper  dressing  of  the  article  to  b< 
fried  ;  if,  indeed,  butter  can  be  obtained  without  any  water} 
fluid,  which  it  scarcely,  if  ever,  can,  it  may  be  applied  ii 
frying  as  other  melted  fats;  (see  Clarified  Butter 
page  23,)  but  these  last  are,  nevertheless,  the  best. 

I  }[t 

*  For  the  best  method  of  purifying  these  see  under  BoiliDg 

p.  22. 


FRYING. 


71 


Yet  the  French,  from  whom  we  may,  beyond  question, 
obtain  a  useful  lesson  in  cookery  now  and  then,  say  that 
frying  is  the  finest  and  the  most  delicate  when  good  olive- 
oil  is  employed.*'  But,  with  the  economical,  its  price  in  this 
country  much  impedes  its  use ;  lard,  after  oil,  is  that  to 
which  preference  should  be  given. 

In  frying  animal  food  generally,  whether  fish  or  flesh, 
the  fat  should  be  made  nearly  to  boil  f  in  the  pan  before 
the  article  is  put  in,  unless  otherwise  directed.  In  regard 
t o  Jlsh,  besides  this  condition,  they  should  be  previously 
dried  in  a  cloth  and  floured ;  they  are  also,  before  being  put 
into  the  pan,  (as  well  as  indeed  occasionally  cutlets,  &c.) 
sometimes  brushed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then 
strewed  with  crumbs  of  bread  in  order  to  render  them  what 
is  esteemed  a  more  elegant  brown  ;  but,  where  proper  atten¬ 
tion  has  been  paid  to  the  frying,  this  process  is  not  necessary. 
u.  i  le  art*cJe  to  be  fried  need  not  be  wholly  covered  with  the 
ifat  J  but  ^  is  quite  necessary  that,  if  all  the  fat  be  dissi¬ 
pated  before  the  article  is  done,  more  of  it  should  be  added 
Jto  prevent  burning. 

"1  French,  who  are  often  loo  particular  in  these  things, 

nect  that  a  thin  paste  should  be  made  with  fine  flour,  the 
Folks  of  eggs,  a  little  beer  or  brandy,  and  a  small  quantity 
3  °ii the  paste  should  be  made  so  thin  as  to  run;  and 
hey  direct  that  every  thing  to  be  fried  must  be  enveloped 
n  it ;  they  are  even  so  nice  as  to  say  that  it  should  be  pre¬ 
pared  at  least  two  hours  before  it  is  used. 

The  reader  will  perceive  that  we  have  been  somewhat 


{■ 


"uisinier  et  de  la  Cuisiniere,  Par  P.  Cardelli. 
dition. 

t  The  heat  of  fat,  as  regards  this  department  of  cookery,  may  be 

Tminprl  hr  a  Kif  _ .  J  ^ 


e. termin ed  by  a  bit  of  bread  being  put  into  it :  if  it  become  crisp6 
is  hot  enough ;  if  the  bread  burn,  it  is  too  hot ;  but  the  fat’s  ceasing 


*  ' “  M.ajs  11  est  reconnu  que  e’est  avec  la  bonne  huile  d’olive  que 
t.ur,es  tes^plus  fines, _lesj>lus  delicates.”  Manuel  de 

Paris,  1827,  5th 


'  make  a  crackling  noise  in  the  pan  will  be,  for  ordinary  purposes5 
sufficient  criterion.  It  is  better  to  have  it  below  than  at  or  above 
burning  heat,  as  excessive  heat  will  impart  a  bad  taste  to  it  as 
•ell  as  too  often  also  to  the  article  fried.  The  heat  of  boiling 
a.ter  is  at  the  degree  of  212°  of  Fahrenheit’s  thermometer  •  that- 
faxed  oils  and  animal  fats,  which  are  in  fact  oils,  is  usually 
tween  five  and  six  hundred. 


72  FRYING.  —  STEAKS,  CUTLETS,  CHOPS. 

minute  in  our  general  directions  for  frying ;  but,  we  believe, 
not  more  so  than  is  necessary.  The  process  is  a  very  com¬ 
mon,  a  very  useful  and  an  economical  one ;  and  we  have, 
therefore,  bestowed  no  ordinary  attention  on  these  directions, 
as  well  as  indeed  on  the  whole  chapter.  We  have  at¬ 
tempted  to  simplify  some  of  the  processes  ;  that  for  soles 
we  may  mention  in  particular,  and  having  directed  our  per¬ 
sonal  attention  to  this  dish  with  no  ordinary  solicitude,  we 
therefore  confidently  recommend  our  method  to  the  notice 
of  the  cook  and  the  economist.  Acids,  and  particularly 
vinegar  and  the  acid  of  lemons,  are  ahoays  acceptable 
with  fish. 

Note  that  oatmeal  may  be  employed  as  a  substitute 
for  bread  crumbs  in  the  dressing  of  fish,  as  well  as  upon 
many  other  occasions. 

STEAKS,  CUTLETS,  and  CHOPS,  may  be  of  the 
same  thickness  as  for  broiling;  but  some  choose  to  have 
them  thinner  for  frying  ;  there  is  no  necessity  for  such 
a  change”:  see  the  General  Observations  under  Broiling. 

To  •  insist  upon  the  necessity  of  having  a  bright  and 
steady  fire  for  frying  may  seem,  after  our  motto,  su¬ 
perfluous  ;  yet  there  will  be  no  harm  in  reminding  the 
cook  that  a  smoky  fire  will  sometimes  spoil  the  dish  ;  that 
unremitted  attention  is  indispensable  to  frying;  and  that 
occasional  movement  of  the  article  in  the  pan  either  by 
shaking  or  otherwise  is  absolutely  necessary,  or  it  will  be 
burnt  and  spoiled. 

BEEF  STEAKS.  If  we  wanted  any  proof  of  the  abso¬ 
lute  necessity  of  reform  in  cookery,  we  may  find  it  in  the 
different  directions  in  our  Cookery  Books  for  dressing  beef 
steaks ;  some  are  so  complicated  that  nobody  will  follow 
them;  others  recommend  butter,  when,  as  we  have  seen 
above,  butter  is  the  worst  possible  fat  for  frying.  The  fol¬ 
lowing  is  our  own  method  :  put  the  steaks  into  a  frying 
pan  having  in  it  some  sv^eet  dripping  made  hot ;  after  the 
steak  is  done  on  one  side  turn  it  on  the  other,  and  there  let  j 
it  remain,  moving  it,  of  course,  occasionally  till  it  is  done. 

Note. — It  may  be  turned  often  if  you  choose  ;  but,  pro¬ 
vided  it  be  frequently  moved,  often  turning  is  not  abso¬ 
lutely  necessary.  You  may  serve  up  the  steak  alone  with 


FRYING.  —  MUTTON  CHOPS,  VEAL-CUTLETS.  73 

merely  a  bit  of  butter  over  it,  if  it  bs  so  desired.  Or  a 
little  beef  gravy  may  be  put  into  the  pan  after  the  steak 
is  taken  out,  together  with  minced  onion  or  shalot,  which 
should  be  boiled  in  the  gravy  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  poured  over  the  steak.  Horse  radish  will  always  be 
acceptable  as  a  garnish. 

Note,  that  tastes  being  so  very  different  as  to  the  de¬ 
gree  to  which  beef  steaks  should  be  dressed,  nothing  will 
determine  this  but  by  consulting  the  wishes  of  those  who 
are  to  eat  them  ;  some  like  them  done  little,  others  without 
the  least  red  in  them.  Care  should  always  be  taken  to 
obtain  tender  beef,  as  a  tough  beef  steak  is  a  troublesome 
viand  :  therefore,  beef  which  has  been  killed  three  or  four 
days,  if  sweet,  is  better  than  that  which  has  been  just  killed. 
(See  Broiling,  page  64.)  The  same  may  be  said  of 

MUTTON  CHOPS,  which  should  be  obtained  from  a 
neck  or  loin  that  has  hung  for  several  days.  The  method 
of  frying  them  is  so  similar  to  that  of  beef  steaks,  that  there 
is  no  occasion  to  say  more  about  them.  They  should,  how¬ 
ever,  be  often  turned,  and  are,  perhaps,  best  seasoned  when 
about  half  or  more  done. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  are  usually  directed  to  be  dipped  in 
or  rubbed  over  with  the  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  fine,  over 
which  some  crumbs  of  bread  are  strewn  together  with  some 
sweet  herbs,  grated  lemon  peel,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
then  fried  with  fresh  butter ;  but  as  they  are  usually  served 
up  with  fried  bacon  or  ham,  surely  lard,  sweet  dripping,  or 
the  bacon  being  previously  fried,  will  afford  a  better  and 
more  economical  fat  for  frying  them.  The  cook  will  adopt 
which  of  these  two  methods  she  pleases;  but  the  last,  with 
the  addition  of  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel  from  the  first,  wall 
be  the  most  simple,  and  in  fact  the  best.  The  cutlets 
should  be  completely  done,  without  the  least  red  in  them.  A 
good  gravy  may  be  served  up  with  them ;  some  shake  a 
little  flour  into  the  pan  after  the  cutlets  are  taken  out,  and 
then  put  in  the  gravy  writh  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little 
butter ;  give  it  a  boil  up  and  pour  it  over  the  cutlets. 
Sliced  lemon  is  a  necessary  garnish,  at  least  for  those  who 
are  not  contented  with  plain  stimulation.  For  Scotch 
Scollops  see  our  chapter  on  Made  Dishes. 


E 


74  FRYING.  —  VENISON,  LAMB  CHOPS,  TRIPE. 

VENISON  must  be  cut  into  slices,  and  a  gravy  be  made 
from  the  bones ;  it  should  be  fried  a  light  brown  ;  when  done, 
keep  it  hot ;  then  put  some  butter  rolled  in  flour  into  the 
pan,  which  must  be  stirred  till  it  is  thick  and  brown :  to 
this  add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  lump  sugar,  the  gravy 
previously  obtained  from  the  bones,  four  ounces  of  port 
wine,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  the  hot  venison  must  now 

be  put  into  this  gravy  (which  should  be  about  the  consis¬ 
tence  of  cream)  in  order  to  be  made  hot  with  it ;  lastly, 
put  it  into  the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  . 

Note,  that  in  adding  wine  of  any  kind  to  gravies,  the  cook 
should  remember  that,  in  order  to  preserve  the  flavour  of 
the  wine  complete,  the  gravy  should  not  be  boiled  after  the 
wine  is  added  to  it:  for  boiling  will  dissipate  the  purest  and 
best  part  of  the  wine ;  namely,  its  spirit  and  the  essential 
oil  which  it  may  contain.  Indeed,  a  frying-  pan  is  a  Pad 
vessel  to  put  wine  in  at  all,  as  it  presents  so  large  a  surface 

to  the  air.  ,  .  ,, 

LAMB  CHOPS  from  the  neck  or  loin  are  usually 

dressed  as  veal  cutlets,  for  which  see  above ;  but  the  best 
way  of  dressing  and  seasoning-  them  is  the  same  as  for  mut¬ 
ton  chops  ;  they  may  be  served  up  with  fried  crumbs  of  bread 
and  crimped  parsley ;  and,  if  you  please,  a  few  aromatic 
herbs :  such  young  and  innutricious  food  seems  to  require 
an  additional  stimulant  to  render  it  palatable.  _  Some  fry 
lamb  chops  in  ale,  and  then  mix  some  lvhite  wine,  capers, 
the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  fine,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  the  liquoi 
in  which  the  chops  are  fried  for  a  sauce  which  must  be  made 
hot  in  the  pan,  and  in  which  the  chops  are  to  be  immersed 
for  a  short  time.  But  see  what  is  said  above,  and  also  in  the 
no te  in  the  preceding  article  in  regard  to  wine. 

TRIPE,  when  fried,  is  by  many  an  esteemed  dish. 
It  may  be  cut  into  pieces  about  two  inches  wide,  and  three 
or  more  inches  long;  prepare  a  thick  batter  of  nnlk,  flour, 
and  eggs,  or  rather  with  prepared  barley  or  pure  starch 
instead  of  flour;  let  the  pieces  be  dipped  m  the  batter  and 
then  fried  in  beef  dripping  till  they  become  a  light  brown. 
Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter,  not  forgetting  mustard. 

OX  TONGUES,  previously  boiled  till  they  are  tender, 
must  be  cut  into  slices  and  seasoned  with  a  little  nutmeg 


FRYING.' 


-neat’s  foot,  sweetbreads,  See. 


/O 

or  Other  spice  at  your  pleasure,  to  which  some  add  suo-ar 
Ihe  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  a  little  lemon  juice  is  aim 
to  be  rubbed  over  them  with  a  feather.  Make  some  butter 
01,  what  is  better,  good  beef  dripping  boiling  hot  in  the  pan 
“d  lnt0  Jt  the  slices  ;  when  properly  done  serve  them 
udne‘th  aSaUCe  ComPosed  of  meIted  butter,  sugar,  and  white 

A  NEAT’S  FOOT  must  be  boiled  till  it  is  tender  and 

hen  beV"  lW°',Tx  ““  the  b°neS  talte”  out :  the  meat  must 
t  whhe  fr  W,tu,  U“er.’  °r,8'00d  ,lriPPing-  Smne  season 
Me  y  a”d,  parS'ey  both  n,i"ced  and  a 

little  salt.  Ihe  sauce  may  he  good  gravy,  to  which  are 

nZeTeS„l  ed  th%y°‘j£  °f  “  «**  or  two  and  a  ,Ue 
nutmeB ,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  that  of  an  orange.  The 

foot  is  usually  served  up  with  the  sauce  poured  ove°r  it. 

Ut  neats  feet,  cow  heels,  and  calves’  feet  this  e-eneral 

ouTntoTS  rde>  ‘Y  33  thc)r  a“  COntaiQ  •  oooaiderable 
quantity  of  gelatine,  they  are  much  better  adapted  for 

soups  and  jellies,  than  for  being  dressed  alone  ;  we  may  be 

tolerably  certam  that,  when  any  aliment  requires  a  variety 

as  sohdTod  ‘°  "mke  “  1>alataWe'  !t  is  “*  ™t  desirable 

SWEETBREADS  must  be  cut  into  long  slices,  and  then 
rubbed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  strew  over  them 
pepper,  salt,  and  grated  bread,  and  fry  them  in  butter  01- 
good  dripping.  They  may  be  served  with  melted  butter  to 
which  some  add  catchup.  The  garnish  may  be  parley 
cusped  and  slices  of  bacon  fried  or  broiled  ;  or  ham.  P  3 
nother  way .  Cut  your  sweetbreads  in  small  pieces 
dip  them  in  egg,  and  then  in  a  seasoning  of  gratedVead 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  fry  them  a  light  brown  •  lay 
t  lem  m  your  dish,  and  pour  over  them  some  good  hot  gravy 

Garnish  with  small  bits  of  bacon. _ Y.  oiav)* 

thevAoL1  'S  B,R]AINS  are  also  sometimes  fried,  althoimh 

Calf’s  HeZ  ] TV  S6rVed  UP  direCted  under  filing 
V.  however,  a  gourmand  should  desire  this 

dish  fried,  let  the  brain  be  cut  into  four  or  more  pie^e 
depending  on  its  size,  and  soaked  in  broth  and  white  wine’ 
Bith  slices  of  lemon,  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  cloves,  shalot’ 
and  as  many  other  condiments  as  pleasure  or  fancy  mav 
■ug§est,  for  half  an  hour;  wdien  they  must  be  taken  out 

e  2 


76  FRYING.— SAUSAGES,  CHICKEN,  POTATOES. 

and  dipped  in  a  batter  composed  of  white  wine,  a  little  olive 
oil,  and  salt;  fry  them;  but  you  may,  previously  to  this 
strew  over  them  crumbs  of  bread  mixed  with  the  yo  ts  o 
eggs.  They  may  be  served  up  with  plain  melted  butter. 

Garnish  with  fried  parsley.  „  , 

SAUSAGES,  whether  of  Pork  or  of  Beef,  require 
scarcely  any  direction  for  being  fried.  In  London  and 
most  large  towns  they  are  usually  sold  m  small  guts  a 
fried  in  the  state  in  which  they  are  bought ;  but  sausage- 
meat  made  into  small  cakes  and  fried  without  the  interven¬ 
tion  of  any  gut,  particularly  that  of  pork,  is  the  best  way  of 
their  being  dressed.  For  pork,  in  particular,  lard  is  the 
best  fat.  Sausages  are  sometimes  fried  with  slices  of  apple 
freed  from  the  core ;  this  is  an  elegant  and  agreeable  way 
of  dressing  them.  The  sausages  should  be  placed  m  the 
middle  and  the  apples  around  them  on  the  dish.  Your 
garnish  maybe  also  apples  cut  into  slices  and  fried,  of  course. 

Note,  that  some  parboil  sausages  before  they  fry  them, 
and  this  will  be  found  a  great  improvement  upon  the  usua 
mode  of  dressing  them.  It  should  be  observed  also,  that 
those  who  prepare  sausages  in  the  large  way,  usually  season 
them  with  some  of  the  aromatic  herbs,  pepper,  &c. ;  but 
we  believe  that  salt  and  pepper  are  the  only  useful  or  neces¬ 
sary  condiments.  ,  , 

4  CHICKEN  should  be  cut  in  quarters  and  prepared 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  the  other  articles  mentioned 
under  Veal  Cutlets  above ;  they  may  be  fried  with  good 
dripping;  some  order  fresh  butter.  Let  a  good  gravy  be 
made  from  beef-steak,  into  which  flour,  or  rather  pure 
starch,  should  be  shaken,  to  which  add  a  small  quantity  of 
cayenne  pepper,  a  little  catchup,  and  lemon-puice.  Serve  the 
chicken  up  with  the  sauce  poured  hot  over  it. 

Various  other  Dishes,  which  it  is  not  necessary  here  to 
mention,  may  be  fried  according  to  the  pleasure  of  the  cook, 
by  attending  to  the  general  observations  which  we  have 
given  above.  There  are,  however,  a  few  which,  as  eco¬ 
nomical  dishes,  we  may  as  well  notice  here.  These  are 
POTATOES  AND  BACON,  which  form  to  a  very 
large  portion  of  the  rural  population  of  this  country  a 
wholesome  and  agreeable  meal,  not  only  as  a  dinner,  but, 
very  often,  after  the  toils  of  the  day,  a  substantial  supper. 


FRYING. —  CABBAGE  AND  BACON. 


77 


We  scarcely  deem  it  necessary  to  direct  the  preparation 
of  this  dish ;  we  may,  however,  mention  that  the  potatoes 
should  be  previously  boiled  and  then  chopped  small  before 
being1  fried ;  that  the  best  bacon  for  this  purpose  is  the 
fattest,  and  that  the  peasantry  fry  first  the  bacon,  then 
take  it  out  of  the  pan,  keeping  it  hot  by  the  fire,  and  put 
in  the  potatoes  to  the  fat  which  the  bacon  has  yielded,  in 
general  enough  for  frying  the  potatoes  ;  they  must  be  stirred 
often  during  the  operation ;  and  they  may,  by  careful 
cooking,  be  made  nicely  and  delicately  brown.  The  bacon 
may  be  served  up  on  and  around  the  potatoes,  or  in  a 
separate  dish.  To  a  good  appetite  no  condiment,  except 
salt,  is  usually  necessary, 

Note,  that  fat  bacon,  for  this  purpose,  is  to  be  preferred 
to  streaky,  or  that  containing  more  animal  fibre,  for  the 
reason  above  stated ;  and  also  because  fat  bacon  is  less 
likely  to  produce  thirst,  a  condition  in  eating  any  salt  food 
which  it  is  desirable  to  avoid. 

CABBAGE  AND  BACON  form  another  of  the  dishes 
to  which  we  have  just  alluded.  When  they  are  fried,  the 
same  method  is  to  be  adopted,  and  the  cabbage  must  be  pre¬ 
viously  boiled,  as  is  directed  for  potatoes ;  the  bacon  should 
also  be  fat  for  the  same  reason.  If,  however,  the  citizen 
should  desire  streaky  bacon  to  be  fried  with  these  homely 
and  wholesome,  yet  simple  viands,  he  will  have  it,  of  course; 
but  let  him  beware  of  thirst. 

BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK,  as  every  body  knows,  is 
cold  boiled  beef  cut  into  slices,  (the  round  is  generally 
chosen,)  and  fried  with,  or  rather  fried  before,  the  cabbage, 
and  then  served  up  with  it.  The  beef  may  be  fried  with 
good  dripping;  when  taken  out  the  cabbage  must  be  put  in; 
in  general  the  fat  required  for  the  beef  will  be  nearly  suffi¬ 
cient  to  fry  the  cabbage,  as  it  is  not  desirable  to  make  it 
greasy;  besides  which  it  will  be  more  savoury  for  being  a 
little  and  delicately  browned ;  but,  of  course,  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  burn  it.  The  cabbage  must  be  chopped  smith, 
like  potatoes,  before  being  fried.  It  may  be  seasone.'Ny'ith 
salt  and  pepper.  The  sauce  may  be  almost  what  yo t '  dase. 
Acids  are  generally  very  agreeable;  common  vim  dffi-  adds 
to  this  dish.  -  V  V 

EGGS  AND  BACON  form  another  Tiea«lcal  dish. 


78 


FRYING. —  EGGS  AND  BACON. 


The  same  observations  apply  to  the  bacon  employed  here  as 
in  the  preceding  dishes;  but  we  suppose  that  the  citizen 
must  have  his  streaky  bacon.  In  frying-  the  eggs,  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  fry  the  yolk  so  as  to  be  hard,  two  mi¬ 
nutes  are  generally  enough  ;  some  like  them  fried  only  on 
one  side;  others  like  them  a  little  browned  on  both.  Eggs 
are  also  sometimes  fried  by  being  tossed  into  the  frying-pan 
and  chopped  during  their  frying,  so  that  the  white  and 
yolk  become  mixed  together.  This  is  a  homely  country 
dish,  concerning  which  a  singular  anecdote  may  be  men¬ 
tioned.* 


*  About  sixty  years  ago  goose  eggs,  in  Somersetshire,  were, 
among  the  farmers  in  the  lowland  districts  contiguous  to  the  ex¬ 
tensive  moors  then  uninclosed,  a  common  dish.  An  apprentice 
maid,  somewhat  noted  for  an  egregious  appetite,  was  set  to  fry 
some  goose  eggs  for  her  own  dinner  ;  her  mistress  ordered  her  to 
take  about  half  a  dozen.  One  of  her  young  masters,  a  wag,  con¬ 
trived  to  get  her  out  of  the  kitchen  for  a  short  time,  during  which 
he  cracked  into  the  pan  in  which  the  eggs  were  frying  about 
twenty  more  ;  they  were  all  chopped  tip  together,  and  the  girl,  on 
her  return,  ate  the  whole,  with  bacon,  of  course.  This  obtained 
for  her  ever  afterwards  the  name  of  Sal  Goose-egg-.  It  occurred  at 
Huntspill.  The  writer  of  this  knew  the  woman  and  all  her  mas¬ 
ter’s  family  well.  It  may  not  be  inopportune  here  to  observe,  that 
a  large  appetite  is  very  commonly  accompanied  by  mental  igno¬ 
rance.  This  woman,  having  been  a  parish  apprentice,  could 
neither  read  nor  write ;  and  it  was  the  then  narrow  and  mistaken, 
and  even  now  it  is  to  be  feared  it  still  is,  the  too  common  policy  of 
many  of  the  farmers  of  this  country  to  avoid  instructing  their  me¬ 
nials  in  the  commonest  rudiments  of  literature.  Now,  although 
we  are  not  advocates  for  a  learned  education  per  se  at  all,  thinking, 
as  we  do,  that  learning  is  rather  calculated  to  make  the  possessors 
of  it  pedants  than  any  thing  else,  yet,  surely,  without  a  knowledge 
of  their  duties,  how  can  servants  become  dutiful,  obedient,  and 
good  members  of  a  family,  as  well  as  of  the  society  in  which  they 
move?  and  how  are  they  to  know  their  duties  without  being  in¬ 
structed  concerning  them  ?  We  shall  say  more  on  this  sulyect  in 


the  Introduction. 

Concerning  great  eaters  generally,  we  may  state,  that  we  have 
known  several,  not  only  in  the  lowest,  but  in  the  independent  ranks 
ordifg ;  in  most,  as  well  the  poor  as  the  rich  and  independent,  w'e 
hav  tund  similar  ignorance;  we  should,  therefore,  say,  as  an 
e  con  of,  alproc.ss  in  regard  to  food,  education,  even  for  the  poor, 
is  desir  >le  If  man  be  retained  in  the  state  of  a  mere  animal  and 
know  li  p‘  more  than  his  animal  wants,  a  mere  animal  he  will  re¬ 
main.  k'»nt!o\him,  employ  his  mind  in  a  variety  of  useful  and 
interesting  ixl  ,y\nuch  of  the  animal  is  sunk,  and  the  mind  pre- 


t/.v 


FRYING.  — *-  OMELETTES. 


79 


OMELETTES  are  decidedly  French  dishes,  into  which 
eggs  generally  enter ;  and,  for  this  purpose,  they  should  be 
taken  from  the  shells  and  beaten  well  with  a  spoon  or  fork, 
and  seasoned  with  salt,  nutmeg,  parsley,  and  other  condi¬ 
ments  which  may  be  chosen,  at  the  pleasure  of  the  cook. 
From  four  to  twelve  eggs  are  the  usual  number  employed 
in  it.  They  are  also  usually  fried  in  a  pan  called  an 
omelette-pan ,  (which  is  simply  a  small  frying-pan,)  with 
butter.* 

A  COMMON  OMELETTE  maybe  thus  made:  take 
six  eggs,  well  beaten  up  with  a  little  salt  and  parsley,  chopped 
tine,  and  other  condiments  at  pleasure;  melt  some  butter  in 
the  pan;  when  it  is  hot  put  in  the  omelette  and  fry  it  till 
it  is  done,  taking  care  to  move  it  during  the  time  it  is  frying, 
so  that  it  may  not  burn.  It  should  be  served,  when  done, 
with  the  under  side,  which  will  be  brown,  turned  upwards 
in  the  dish.  If  you  desire  the  top  to  be  brown  as  well  as 
the  bottom,  a  hot  salamander,  or  shovel,  should  be  held 
over  it,  to  give  it  the  colour  desired ;  or  some  will  turn  it 
in  the  pan,  and  thus  brown  both  sides  without  the  assistance 
of  the  salamander. 

Note ,  that  the  principal  care  in  dressing  an  omelette 
consists,  as  in  frying  or  boiling  of  eggs,  in  not  doing  it  too 
much ;  for  if  done  hard,  it  will  be  neither  pleasant  nor 
wholesome  to  he  eaten. 

OMELETTES  MUCH  MORE  COMPLICATED  are 
made  with  the  above  and  many  other  articles ;  such  as  good 
gravy,  mashed  potatoes,  forcemeats,  ham,  tongue,  bacon, 
veal  kidnies,  red  herrings,  anchovies,  cream,  sugar,  milk, 
some  one  or  more  of  the  spices,  sweet  basil  tarragon, 
truffles,  lemon-peel,  lemon  thyme,  and  other  sweet  herbs, 
shalots  or  onions,  and  olive  oil  instead  of  butter;  one  or 
more  of  which  may  be  introduced  by  the  taste  and  direction 
of  the  cook.  The  gravies  for  omelettes,  as  well  as  for  most 

dominates.  To  the  rich  this  is  a  lesson  which,  we  trust,  for  the  f 
individual  happiness,  as  well  as  in  furtherance  of  the  power  ^/t 
riches  confer  in  promoting  the  happiness  of  others,  will  l&Vfriu 
forgotten.  r..- 

*  The  omelette  is  one  of  the  few  dishes  for  which  butter,  in  fryLg 
it,  is  the  most  suitable  fat,  chiefly  when  fresh  and  good,  (which  i* 
ought  to  be  for  the  omelette.)  from  its  delicacy,  and  because  the* 
omelette  is  dressed  with  comparatively  a  moderate  heat. 


80 


FRYING.  —  OMELETTES,  SOLES. 


other  dishes,  as  we  have  previously  more  than  once  stated, 
should  be  thickened  with  pure  starch  in  preference  to  flour. 
Some,  indeed,  direct,  in  preparing  an  omelette,  that  the  eggs 
should  be  made  into  a  batter  with  milk  and  a  little  flour ; 
but  we  see  no  necessity  for  either  of  these  ingredients ;  you 
may,  however,  if  you  please,  make  a  batter  with  the  eggs, 
some  pure  starch,  in  powder,  of  course,  and  a  little  good 
gravy. 

Observe,  that  such  articles  as  ham,  veal  kidnies,  &c. 
should  be  either  minced  or  cut  in  dice  before  being  mixed 
with  your  omelette ;  veal  kidnies  should  be  also  previously 
boiled.  Omelettes  may  be  served  up  with  the  gravies  or 
sauces  poured  over  them. 

Looking-  at  omelettes  dispassionately,  we  cannot  avoid 
considering  most  of  them  unnecessary  dishes,  and  the  most 
so  are  those  compounded  of  many  ingredients ;  especially 
bad  are  those  having  flour,  cream,  and  sugar  in  them.  It 
is,  nevertheless,  very  probable  that,  by  mixing  intimately 
the  yolk  and  the  white  of  an  egg  and  slightly  dressing  them 
so  as  just  to  coagulate  both,  they  may  suit  some  stomachs 
better  than  wThen  eggs  are  eaten  after  the  other  usual  ways 
of  dressing  them  in  this  country ;  and  therefore  the  common 
omelette  above,  when  slightly  done,  must  be  the  best,  or,  at 
least,  the  most  wholesome,  with  the  plainest  condiments. 

On  Omelettes  a  Id  Dctuphine,  Omelettes  d  la  Celestine, 
Omelettes  aux  Truffes,  Omelette  Soufflee,  &c.  &c.,  wre 
cannot  enlarge  ;  one,  however,  wrhich  is  very  simple,  and 
called 

OMELETTE  A  LA  FERMIERE,  we  may  here  men¬ 
tion.  It  is  made  by  beating  the  eggs  with  chopped  parsley, 
pepper,  salt,  shalots  and  sorrel,  as  above  directed  for  the 
common  omelette ;  when  it  is  done,  a  piece  of  fried  bread 
is  put  on  it.  The  omelette  is  rolled  round  and  then  served 
up. 

ik  For  FRIED  BREAD  CRUMBS  and  FRIED  PARS- 
ly/.Y,  both  much  used  with  fried  dishes,  see  our  chapter  on 
>' preparation  of  Vegetables,  under  which  will  also  be 

hd  a  variety  of  other  useful  information  concerning  vege¬ 
tables  generally. 

SOLES  constitute  one  of  the  most  valuable  dishes  of  the 
fish  tribe  ;  and  frying  is  by  far  the  best  method  of  pre- 


FRYING. —  SOLES. 


81 


paring  them  for  the  table.  They  are  so  easily  done,  that  no 
directions  seem  necessary;  yet,  as  even  soles  are  sometimes 
fried  badly,  the  following  may  be  useful.  In  the  first  place 
the  cook  will  be  good  enough  to  refer  to  our  General  Direc¬ 
tions,  at  the  commencement  of  this  chapter,  and  pay  parti¬ 
cular  attention  to  what  is  in  them  stated  concerning  fish. 
In  the  next,  she  will  take  care  that  her  fish  is  skinned  and 
gutted,  retaining  the  roe;  after  being  floured,  it  should 
be  put  into  the  pan  when  the  lard  is  boiling  hot,  and 
kept  moving,  that  it  may  not  burn,  till  the  under  side 
becomes  brown;  it  must  then  be  turned,  with  a  fish-slice,  on 
the  other  side,  and  fried  till  that  side  becomes  also  brown, 
when  it  may  be  taken  out  and  served  up  with  plain  melted 
butter,  in  a  boat.  Your  garnishmay  be  green  pickles,  or  slices 
of  lemon  ;  cayenne  is  a  very  useful  addition ;  it  is  best  added 
at  your  pleasure  on  the  plate  ;  vinegar  is  also  a  wholesome 
and  pleasant  condiment.  Some  will  have  other  sauces,  but 
soles  do  not  require  them.  About  two  ounces  of  lard  are 
necessary  to  fry  a  sole  of  half  a  pound  weight.  If  the  frying 
be  properly  conducted,  there  will  be  no  necessity  whatever 
for  rubbing  the  fish  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg  or  crumb  of 
bread ;  some  will,  howrever,  use  both ;  others,  instead  of 
bread,  use  biscuit  powder. 

Note,  that  when  soles  are  properly  fried,  they  require 
turning  but  once.  The  time  necessary  depends  upon  their 
size ;  a  sole  of  half  a  pound  weight  will  take,  at  least,  five 
or  six  minutes  for  each  side ;  large  ones  will  require 
more  time  ;  smaller  somew'hat  less.  Much  depends  upon 
the  regularity  and  intensity  of  the  fire. 

Of  soles,  as  food,  we  can  scarcely  speak  too  highly  ;  they 
agree  with  almost  every  stomach,  and  they  are  devoid  of 
that  rankness  of  smell,  as  well  as  of  taste,  which  is  so  offen¬ 
sive  to  many  persons,  in  the  herring,  and,  indeed,  in  most 
of  the  more  oleous  tribe  of  fishes.  We  may  just  add,  that 
if  you  desire  your  soles  to  be  particularly  nice,  fry  them  in 
good  olive  oil ;  and  it  may  be  useful  to  know  that  cold  fried 
sole,  if  eaten  with  vinegar  and  salt,  is  a  delicate  dish,  and 
very  similar  in  taste  to  shrimps.  Soles,  when  fried  and  kept 
in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  good  for  two  or  three  days ;  if 
you  wish  them  hot,  they  maybe  made  so  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

These  directions  for  soles  may  be  applied  to  most  other 

e  3 


82 


FRYING.  —  TURBOT,  CARP. 

flat  flsh  ;  the  turbot  is,  however,  sometimes  treated  dif¬ 
ferently  ;  with  what  propriety  will  be  presently  seen. 

A  TURBOT  is  usually  boiled;  but  occasionally  small 
ones  are  fried  ;  large  ones  are  not  suited  to  this  process. 
The  following  directions  will  be  found,  in  substance,  in 
several  of  our  respectable  cookery  books.  After  being 
cleansed,  dried,  and  floured,  put  it  into  the  pan  with  boiling 
lard  or  dripping,  nearly  enough  to  cover  it ;  fry  it  till  it  is 
brown,  turning  it  once;  take  it  from  the  pan,  while 
you  clean  it  from  the  fat,  and  then  put  the  flsh  again  into 
the  pan,  with  claret  or  white  wine,  almost  enough  to 
cover  it,  to  which  add  an  anchovy,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
ginger.  Stew  the  fish  in  this  liquor  till  it  is  half  wasted. 
Then  take  out  the  fish,  and  add  to  the  liquor  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour  and  a  minced  lemon.  Let  them  simmer  till  the 
gravy  is  of  a  proper  thickness  ;  rub  a  hot  dish  with  shalot : 
lay  the  turbot  in  the  dish  and  pour  the  hot  sauce  over  it. 

A  more  injudicious  and  expensive  method  of  dressing  this 
fish  could  scarcely  be  given.  If  it  should  be  determined  to 
stew  it  in  wine  after  it  is,  in  effect,  done  in  the  frying-pan, 
it  ought  to  be  put  into  a  stew-pan  and  covered  as  closely  as 
possible,  in  order  that  the  aromatic  and  spirituous  portion  of 
the  wine  might  not  escape ;  but  to  boil  wine  in  an  open 
frying-pan,  is  an  absurdity  which  we  may  hope,  for  the  credit 
of  the  age,  will  be  henceforward  set  aside.  We  question, 
besides,  the  utility  of  using  wine  in  dressing  this  fish,  in 
any  way ;  if  a  sauce  be  made  with  wine,  that  spirituous 
liquor  should  not  be  boiled  at  all,  at  least,  not  in  an  open 
vessel;  but  be  added  to  the  sauce  just  before  it  is  served  up, 
and  only  heated  sufficiently  to  mix  well  with  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients. 

Note,  we  might  have  passed  over  the  article  Turbot,  in 
this  chapter,  by  simply  naming  it  under  the  general  head  of 
other  flat  fish,  as  mentioned  above;  but  as  wTe  are  reformincj 
cooks,  we  trust  this  comment  will  not  be  without  its  use. 

A  CARP  being  scaled,  gutted,  and  otherwise  cleansed, 
must  be  floured  and  then  fried  of  a  light  brown,  turning  it 
‘j  once,  of  course.  Fry  some  slices  of  bread  cut  three-corner 
’  ways,  with  the  roes.  The  sauce  may  be  butter,  anchovy, 
and  lemon-juice.  It  should  be  served  up  with  the  roes 
around  it.  Your  garnish,  slices  of  lemon  and  fried  bread. 


FRYING.  —  TROUT,  PERCII,  TENCH,  EELS.  83 

Note,  this  fish,  if  large,  is  not  adapted  for  frying  ;  it  is 
more  commonly  boiled  or  stewed.  Tench  are  sometimes 
fried,  (after  being  opened,  the  back  bone  taken  out,  and 
stuffed  with  some  of  their  own  flesh  minced,  bread  soaked 
in  cream,  and  a  variety  of  spices,  yolks  of  eggs,  butter,  and 
sweet  herbs),  in  clarified  butter.  When  they  are  done  a  nice 
brown,  they  are  taken  from  the  pan,  the  pan  being  cleaned, 
and  then  put  into  it  again  and  stewed  with  butter,  wine,  water, 
truffles,  morels,  oysters,  catchup,  &c.  ;  at  once  a  trouble¬ 
some  and  expensive  dish,  which  wTe  cannot  recommend. 

■  See  below. 

TROUT  must  have  the  fins  and  tail  cut  off,  then  be 
cleaned,  gutted,  dipped  in  or  brushed  over  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  and  bread  crumbs  or  oatmeal  shaken  over  them  ; 
fry  them  in  good  dripping ;  they  must  be  turned  once. 
Your  sauce  may  be  butter,  with  catchup  and  lemon  juice; 
or  plain  butter  with  crisped  parsley. 

Note,  we  believe  that  this  is  the  best  way  of  dressing- 
trout ;  and  very  preferable  to  boiling  it,  unless  it  be  large, 
i.  e.  more  than  a  pound  weight. 

PERCH,  TENCH,  and  GRAYLING  may  be  fried  in  the 
same  manner  as  trout,  which  see  above. 

SMELTS  must  have  the  gills  taken  away,  in  doing  which 
the  guts  may  also  be  drawn  out,  but  the  roes  and  milts 
should  remain  ;  after  being  washed  and  well  dried  with  a 
cloth,  brush  these  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  strew 
crumbs  of  bread  on  them.  Fry  them  in  lard  or  good  drip¬ 
ping.  When  they  are  done  a  nice  brown,  drain  them  ;  they 
are  sometimes  dished  thus  :  invert  a  bason  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish,  and  lay  the  tails  of  the  fish  on  the  sides  of  it : 
this  is  an  old  fashioned  and,  it  would  seem,  unnecessary 
fancy.  Garnish  with  crisped  parsley.  Your  sauce  may  be 
melted  butter. 

Note,  some  direct  the  smelts  on  being  cleansed,  not  to  be 
washed  at  all,  but  to  be  wiped  with  a  cloth;  others  say 
that  they  should  not  be  washed  more  than  is  necessary. 

EELS,  after  being  skinned,  the  heads  cut  off,  cleansed 
and  cut  into  pieces  of  about  three  or  four  inches  long, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  flour,  being  strewed 
over  them,  may  be  fried  in  lard  or  sweet  dripping,  till  they 
are  of  a  nice  brown,  being,  of  course,  kept  moving  and 


/ 


84  FRYING.  —  LAMPREYS,  MULLET,  OYSTERS. 

turned  once  or  more  in  the  pan.  Some  will  dip  them  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  and  shake  on  them  fine  bread  crumbs  before 
frying  them.  Butter  with  lemon  juice  may  be  the  sauce  ; 
or  parsley  and  butter.  Crisped  parsley  may  be  your 
garnish. 

Note,  that  we  consider  this  and  broiling  the  most  econo¬ 
mical  method  of  dressing  eels  ;  because  all  the  nutrition  is 
retained  in  them ;  whereas,  by  boiling,  much  of  it  is  dis¬ 
solved  in  the  water;  unless,  indeed,  the  broth  be  eaten  as 
well  as  the  boiled  eels ;  eel  broth  is  by  many  considered  a 
pleasant  dish. 

LAMPREYS  are  in  part  fried  and  afterwards  stewed. 
See,  therefore,  Lampreys  under  Stewing. 

MULLETS,  after  being  scaled,  gutted,  and  otherwise 
cleansed,  should  be  scored  across  the  back,  and  then  be 
fried  in  clarified  butter ;  some  dip  them  in  melted  butter 
previously  to  frying  them  ;  but  this  does  not  appear  neces¬ 
sary.  Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  anchovy. 

HERRINGS  maybe  fried  in  butter  ;  serve  them  up  with 
crisped  parsley,  melted  butter  and  parsley,  and  mustard. 
Some  serve  them  up  also  with  fried  onions. 

OYSTERS  for  frying  should  be  chosen  large  ;  after  they 
are  properly  cleansed,  mix  together  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
a  bit  of  powdered  mace,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little 
salt ;  strew  this  mixture  over  the  oysters,  and  then  fry  them 
in  lard  of  a  nice  brown.  Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter 
mixed  with  crumbs  of  bread,  poured  over  them. 

WHITE  BAIT.  This  fish,  which  is  almost  peculiar  to 
the  Thames,  has  long  excited  the  epicurean  citizens  of 
London, 


“  Who  oft  to  Blackwall  or  to  Greenwich  repair. 

In  parties  to  feast  on  this  delicate  fare.” 

It  was  for  a  long  time  believed  to  be  the  young  of  some 
fish,  and,  therefore,  it  was  prohibited  from  being  taken  ; 
but  the  researches  of  naturalists,  and  particularly  those  of 
Mr.  Yarrell,  an  account  of  which  has  appeared  in 
several  publications,  prove  that  it  is  a  distinct  species,  and 
found  wil^h  spawn  in  it  in  the  spring  and  early  summer 
months,  during  which  time  it  may  be  obtained  at  the  fish¬ 
mongers  in  London.  It  is  a  white  fish,  as  its  name  im- 


FRYING.  —  WHITE  BAIT. 


85 


ports,  and  a  very  small  one  ;  the  smallest,  indeed,  that  is 
found  in  the  London  markets  ;  it  is  usually  about  two  inches 
long.  We  have  been  favoured  with  a  communication  from 
Mr.  Yarrell  concerning  white  bait,  which  ure  here  lay 
before  our  readers: 

“  This  little  fish  belongs,  (like  its  supposed  parent  the 
shad,)  to  the  old  genus  Clupea  of  Linnaeus  ;  I  had  only, 
therefore,  to  bestow  a  specific  name,  and  from  its  prevailing 
external  colour  and  our  own  English  term  for  it,  ivas  in¬ 
duced  to  adopt  that  of  alba — Clupea  alba.  The  French, 
who  did  not  admit  it  as  a  species  before,  now  call  it  very 
truly  the  white  bite  des  A?iglois.” 

For  the  mode  of  dressing  this  fish  we  are  also  indebted  to 
Mr.  Yarrell. 

“  They  should  be  laid  in  folds  of  cloth  till  they  are  quite 
dry,  shaken  in  a  hag  with  flour,  and  then  be  dipped  in  a 
thin  batter  made  with  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour,  one  egg, 
and  a  little  milk.  As  they  are  too  delicate  and  tender  to  be 
turned  in  a  frying-pan,  they  should  be  laid  separately  on  a 
small  fish-strainer  and  sunk  into  boiling  lard  for  about  two 
minutes.  Some  will,  however,  employ  sweet  olive  oil. 

“  Thus  much  for  the  mode  of  cooking1,  which  is  managed 
in  its  greatest  perfection  at  the  taverns  of  Greenwich  and 
Blackwall ;  at  least,  I  have  never  yet  seen  them  so  well 
cooked  elsewhere.” 

We  believe,  however,  that  one  of  the  chief  causes  of  the 
superior  cooking  of  this  fish  at  the  places  mentioned,  con¬ 
sists  in  their  being  obtained  quite  fresh  from  the  river  :  for 
it  is  a  very  delicate  fish,  and  soon  becomes  unfit  for  eating 
after  it  is  caught. 

Note,  it  is  our  duty  to  lay  before  the  reader  this  account 
of  white  bait ;  at  the  same  time  we  leave  it  to  be  dressed 
and  eaten  by  those  who  think  such  trifles  wrorth  their  notice, 
while  many  more  useful  and  valuable  fish  are  to  be  so 
readily  obtained. 

I 


86 


CHAPTER  VII. 

STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 


A  comprehensive  term  is  stew, 

Well  known  to  Kate,  to  Sally,  Sue  ; 
Yet  'midst  the  annals  of  our  art, 
Stewing  bears  not  deserved  part — 

A  handmaid  whom  we  might  direct 
Big  bones  and  sinews  to  dissect. 
Whence,  with  long  coction,  gelatine. 
Emerges  wholesome,  aye,  divine! — 
Despis’d  too  oft,  and  most  by  those. 
Whose  narrow  means  prove  deadly  foes. 
Her  care  is  to  prevent  all  waste  ; 

And  never  is  she  known  to  haste ; 
Prudence  and  neatness  on  her  wait — 
Her  chief  attendant  gentle  heat. 

Stewing  we,  therefore,  may  employ 
To  add  unto  the  poor  man’s  joy  ; 

And,  if  the  Great  will  condescend. 

To  them  she  will  become  a  friend. 


A 

4 


General  Observations.  As  our  motto  states, 
Stewing,  although  well  known  as  a  term,  has  by  no  means 
so  much  share  in  cooking  as  economy,  in  particular  among 
the  middling  and  lower  classes  of  society,  requires.  The 
opprobrious  term  of  pot-liquor  has  scared,  we  fear,  many  a 
person  from  employing  it ;  whereas,  in  the  preparation  of 
stews  it  is,  if  from  fresh  animal  food,  a  capital  ingredient 
when  discreetly  employed. 

Although  stew-pans  are  common  appendages  in  the 
establishment  of  a  good  kitchen,  they  are  not  often  found  in 
the  houses  of  those  to  whom  stews,  as  economical  dishes, 
are  most  desirable.  There  is  also  another  vessel  called  a 
digester ,*  which  some  friend  of  the  poor,  or  some  good 

*  On  one  occasion,  some  time  since,  a  person  lost  his  life  by 
some  mismanagement  and  consequent  explosion  of  a  digester. 


lady  bountiful  contrived,  to  extract  more  effectually  the 
gelatine  and  other  nutritious  properties  from  bones;  some 
account  of  this  utensil  will  be  found  in  the  Introduction ; 
it  has  not  obtained  by  far  so  much  use  as  even  the  stew- 
pan;  and  although  it  might  occasionally  be  of  service  by 
administering-  heat  considerably  above  the  boiling  point,  and 
in  part,  at  least,  decomposing  the  bones,  yet  without  great 
care  the  earthy  parts  of  the  bones,  i.  e.  the  calcareous  por¬ 
tion  of  them,  will  become  mixed  with  the  liquor  in  the  vessel 
and  impart  an  unpleasant  flavour,  and,  in  fact,  spoil  it:  we 
are  not,  therefore,  advocates  for  its  use,  especially  by  those 
who  are  not  overburthened  with  discretion  ;  but  advise  in 
|  stewing  the  employment  of  a  low  and  long  continued  heat 
at  or  about  the  boiling  point  of  water,  212°  of  Fahrenheit’s 
f  thermometer ;  it  will  be,  howrever,  extremely  useful  in 
subjecting  sinews  and  even  animal  muscle,  that  is,  meat  as 
well  as  indeed  vegetables,  to  the  process  of  stewing,  to  cut 
I  them  into  pieces  and  to  break  the  bones  also,  so  that  not 
l  only  the  marrow  may  be  got  out,  but  that  the  water  or 
other  vehicle  employed  may  more  readily  act  upon  them. 

We  have  alluded  in  our  motto  to  the  gelatine,  obtained 
more  particularly  from  bones  and  sinews ;  and  gelatine  is 
doubtless,  a  very  nutricious  substance  ;  but  even  gelatine, 
when  taken  alone  without  the  fibrous  matter  of  animal 
muscles,  in  other  words  meat,  is  not  so  well  calculated  to 
1  support  the  animal  body  as  a  mixture  of  both  most  unques¬ 
tionably  is  ;  it  is  highly  necessary,  therefore,  in  the  con¬ 
coction  of  stews  to  bear  this  in  mind.  Even  beef  tea,  as 
some  mistakingly  call  a  decoction  made  with  beef  (see  that 
article  under  a  subsequent  chapter)  is  not  so  nutricious  and 
stimulant  if  given  in  a  state  of  transparency,  as  when  con¬ 
taining  a  portion,  more  or  less  large,  of  the  particles  of 
fibrin,  floating  in  or  otherwise  mixed  with  it.  It  is  of  the 
|  first  importance  that  this  fact  should  be  generally  known. 

!  We  have  however,  fortunately,  a  succedaneum  for  the 
fibrin  of  animal  matter  in  good  wheaten  bread ;  and, 
therefore,  in  stews  or  soups  where  fibrin  is  not,  bread  in 
pretty  large  quantities  ought  to  be  employed ;  and  it  is 
!  generally  most  agreeable  when  toasted  in  slices  and  mixed 
with  or  otherwise  eaten  with  the  stew.  We  say  bread 
made  of  wheat,  because  no  vegetable  contains  so  much 


88  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

gluten,  as  that  important  seed  ;  and  gluten  is  the  most 
allied  of  all  vegetable  substances  to  animal  fibrin,  which  is, 
apparently,  a  modification  of  albumen :  that  is,  a  substance 
similar  to  the  white  of  eggs.* 

We  may  just  add  here  concerning  the  vegetables  having 
gluten,  that  according  to  the  experiments  of  Sir  Humphry 
Davy,  wheat  usually  contains  more  than  one  fifth  of  its 
bulk  of  gluten  ;  that  rye  and  beans  contain  about  one  tenth 
of  the  same  ingredient ;  oats  still  less,  barley  not  more  than 
about  one  eighteenth  part  of  its  bulk  of  gluten,  and  potatoes 
and  peas  still  less  than  this  last  proportion ;  and  although 
all  the  articles  here  mentioned  contain  an  abundance  of 
starch,  yet  even  of  starch,  wheat  contains  the  most  of  them 
all.  It  is,  therefore,  when  properly  prepared  for  the 
human  stomach,  by  far  the  most  nutricious  of  vegetable 
substances.  See  also  our  chapter  on  Vegetables. 

Before  we  conclude  these  general  observations,  we  trust 
both  interesting  and  useful,  we  may  advert  to  the  too  com¬ 
mon  practice  of  putting  at  once  into  the  stew,  not  only  the 
substantial  ingredients,  but  also  those  more  especially  de¬ 
signed  to  flavour  it;  such  as  sometimes  wine,  spices,  horse¬ 
radish,  celery,  and  other  aromatic  plants  or  seeds.  Now, 
where  the  body  added  contains  a  spirit  as  wine,  or  an  es¬ 
sential  oil  as  horse-radish  or  celery,  and  more  especially  the 
seed  of  this  last,  or  all  or  any  of  the  spices,  nothing  can  be 
more  absurd  than  subjecting  them  to  the  whole  process  of 
stewing  however  long;  for,  by  such  a  practice,  most  of  the 
volatile  particles  will  assuredly  be  reduced  to  vapour  by  the 
heat,  and  thus  escape.  The  best  general  way  will  be  for 
such  articles  to  be  put  in  towards  the  end  of  the  operation, 
and  not  before  ;  indeed  one  of  the  most  elegant  methods  of 
flavouring  soups  as  well  as  stews  with  celery  in  particular, 
is  to  mix  the  seed  with  the  soup  or  stew  after  it  is  served 

*  In  confirmation  of  the  view  taken  in  this  paragraph,  of  the 
nutricious  properties  of  animal  food,  we  may  here  mention  that 
some  years  ago  a  fatal  disease  was  very  prevalent  among  the 
prisoners  in  the  Millbank  Petiitentiary  ;  and,  notwithstanding  the 
united  efforts  and  skill  of  the  medical  officers  of  that  establishment, 
it  swept  away  a  great  many  of  the  inmates.  It  was  at  length, 
however,  discovered  that  the  absence  of  fibrin,  in  other  words 
meat,  in  the  soup  eaten  by  the  prisoners  was  the  cause  ;  they  were 
supplied  more  plentifully  with  meat  and  (he  disease  ceased. 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING.  89 

up,  and  for  this  purpose  celery  seed  should  be  placed  in  a 
vessel  at  the  table  the  same  as  pepper,  salt,  or  other  condi¬ 
ments  now  are,  in  order  that  each  guest  may  please  him¬ 
self. 

It  is  fortunate  for  mankind  that  the  most  useful  food,  the 
most  durable  stimuli ,  when  subjected  to  ordinary  heat,  and 
particularly  to  that  of  boiling  water,  do  not,  in  general,  un¬ 
dergo  any  injurious  change;  but,  on  the  contrary,  are 
usually  better  suited  by  it  to  the  process  of  digestion ;  hence 
in  stews ,  to  extract  the  nutritive  properties  of  food,  it  is 
best  generally  to  employ  a  good  deal  of  water,  in  order  more 
effectually  to  dissolve  them,  the  superfluity  of  water  readily 
passing  off  during  the  process  ;  it  is  only  in  the  addition  of 
condiments  that  our  care  in  this  respect  is  more  especially 
;  required. 

Stew-pans  in  the  kitchens  of  the  opulent  are  sometimes 
employed  that  are  made  of  copper  well  tinned  within ;  but 
iron  stew-pans  are  nevertheless,  from  their  superior  whole¬ 
someness,  to  be  preferred  ;  copper  should,  as  much  as  possi¬ 
ble,  be  avoided  (from  its  well-known  poisonous  quality)  in 
j  every  vessel  used  in  the  preparation  of  food. 

One  word  more  on  stews  will  be  permitted  us.  To  sub¬ 
ject  substantial  dishes,  such  as  a  rump  of  beef,  a  fillet  of 
veal,  or  a  leg’  of  mutton,  to  the  process  of  stewing,  may 
indeed  afford  pleasure  to  the  luxurious ;  but  as  these  are 
most  readily  adapted  either  by  boiling-  or  roasting-,  as  well 
as  by  broiling  and  frying  as  steaks,  to  the  human  stomach, 
to  stew  them  is  not  only  unnecessary,  but,  particularly  with 
the  addition  of  a  variety  of  condiments,  a  perversion  of  a 
useful  and  important  art.  It  would  appear,  therefore,  that 
stewing  is  more  especially  adapted  to  that  food  which  boil¬ 
ing  or  roasting  does  not  make  tender ;  and  particularly  to 
those  irregular  and  inconvenient  pieces  of  animal  food,  as 
swell  as  to  that  which  is  tough,  w-hich  cannot  be  served  up 
as  a  solid  dish,  but  which  stewing- renders,  at  once,  palatable 
and  economical.  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add,  that  all 
the  scum  which  arises  during  stewing  must  be  carefully 
taken  off,  as  well  as  indeed  the  fat  if  offensive  or  abundant. 

From  what  has  been  said  it  cannot  be  supposed,  that  we 
approve  of  the  following  directions  (to  be  found  almost 
verbatim  in  many  of  our  cookery-books)  for  stewing 


90 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING* 

A  RUMP  OF  BEEF. — It  must  be  previously  roasted 
till  about  half  done,  and  then  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  two 
quarts  of  water  and  one  of  red  wine,  two  or  three  blades  of 
mace,  a  shalot,  two  spoonfuls  of  walnut  catchup,  one  of 
lemon  pickle,  two  of  browning',  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt.  Let  it  stew  over  a  gentle  fire  for  two  hours, 
closely  covered,  then  take  out  the  beef,  lay  it  on  a  deep 
dish,  skim  off  the  fat  and  strain  the  gravy,  into  which  put 
an  ounce  of  morels  and  half  a  pint  of  mushrooms  ;  thicken 
the  gravy,  heating  it  of  course,  and  then  pour  it  over  the 
beef.  Garnish  with  horse-radish  and  lay  force-meat  balls 
around  it. 

Note  that  we  have  said,  in  the  Preliminary  Address  to 
the  Family  Cyclopaedia,  “  Scarcely  a  form  for  the  pre¬ 
paration  of  one  dish  is  to  be  found  in  cookery-books  on 
which  the  science  of  an  intelligent  female  cannot  improve.” 
On  the  preceding  vague  directions  how  easily  might  a  little 
useful  knowledge  be  exercised.  In  the  first  place  we  are 
not  told  wffiether  the  bones  as  well  as  the  meat  are  to  be 
stewed  together ;  in  short,  whether  it  is  to  be  stewed  w7hole 
as  a  joint,  or,  after  it  is  roasted,  to  be  cut  into  pieces  and  the 
bones  taken  away.  In  whichever  wray  it  is  to  be  dressed, 
wdiat  saucepan  or  stew-pan  will  be  found  to  hold  a  rump  of 
beef  of  even  a  moderate  size.  Again,  the  water  is  by  far 
too  small  in  quantity ;  and,  if  wine  is  to  be  added  to  it,  it 
will  be  far  better  to  stew  it  with  much  more  water  than  is 
set  dow'n  in  a  vessel  slightly  not  closely  covered  ;  and  to 
add  the  wine  towards  the  end  of  the  process.  Again,  we 
are  not  told  whether  this  dish  is  to  be  considered  economical 
or  luxurious  ;  it  is  decidedly  the  last.  To  stew  a  rump  of 
beef  economically  there  is  no  need  of  previous  roasting 
or  wine;  plenty  of  water  being  employed,  and  sufficient 
time  allowed  for  the  stewing,  say  four  hours  at  least,  more 
if  the  joint  be  large,  a  very  pleasant  and  nutricious  dish  may 
be  obtained,  with  the  addition  of  suitable  seasoning  and 
gravy,  for  a  large  family. 

THE  FRENCH  METHOD  OF  STEWING  A 
RUMP  OR  A  BRISKET  OF  BEEF  is  to  cut  off  all 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  soak  it  in  a  pint  or  more  of 
red  wine,  with  spices,  vinegar,  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper, 
for  a  night.  The  next  day  it  is  stewed  with  the  wine,  &c. 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 


91 


and  some  good  gravy,  an  onion,  and  two  or  three  bay  leaves; 
some  put  thick  slices  of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew- 
pan.  It  must  stew  four,  or  even  five,  hours,  if  the  joint  be 
large ;  and  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  it  closely  covered 
during  the  process.  When  the  meat  is  sufficiently  done 
take  it  out  and  strain  the  liquor,  after  which  the  fat  must 
be  taken  off,  the  liquor  again  returned  to  the  pan,  to  which 
are  added  some  truffles  and  morels,  artichoke  bottoms,  or 
carrots  and  turnips,  all  cut  in  pieces.  Boil  these  up  in  the 
liquor,  which  you  may  season  with  cayenne  ;  add  to  it  the 
meat  to  make  it  hot,  serve  the  whole  up,  and  garnish  with 
lemon  and  beet-root,  or  fried  bread. 

The  following  directions  for  stewing  and  afterwards 
frying 

BEEF  STEAKS  have  more  reason  in  them  than  either 
of  the  preceding  ;  hut  even  here  the  wine  should  be  added, 
if  at  all,  towards  the  end  of  the  process. 

Pepper  and  salt  your  rump  steaks,  and  lay  them  in  a 
stew-pan  ;  add  to  them  half  a  pint  or  more  of  water,  de* 
pending  upon  the  weight,  a  little  mace,  two  or  three  cloves, 
an  anchovy,  some  sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  an  onion.  Stew  them  till 
they  are  tender,  then  take  out  the  steaks,  shake  some  flour 
over  them,  and  fry  them  in  butter.  Strain  the  liquor  in 
which  they  were  stewed,  and  put  it  into  the  pan  with  the 
-steaks ;  toss  the  whole  up  together  till  it  becomes  hot  and 
thick.  Some  add  to  them  oysters.  Serve  up  the  steaks 
[[with  the  sauce  poured  over  them ;  g'arnish  with  pickles  and 
"horse-radish. 

Nota  bene,  our  Council  of  Cooks  are  unanimously  of 
^opinion,  that  where,  in  stewin g,  frying  makes  a  part  of  the 
process,  it  should  be  first  adopted,  and  that  the  stewing 
should  complete  it ;  directly  the  reverse  of  the  above  re¬ 
cipe  :  the  cook  will,  of  course,  choose  which  she  pleases. 

BEEF  GOBBETS. — Take  any  part,  or  any  quantity,  of 
'  beef  (except,  perhaps,  the  leg)  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about 
lithe  size  of  a  pullet’s  egg,  cover  them  with  water,  and  let 
them  stew  for  an  hour,  taking  off  the  scum  during  the 
operation ;  then  put  in  a  small  quantity  of  mace,  cloves, 
and  whole  pepper  tied  loosely  in  a  cloth  ;  add  also  some  salt, 
celery,  and  carrots,  both  sliced,  some  parsley,  sweet  herbs, 


92  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

and  a  large  crust  of  bread.  Let  it  stew  till  the  beef  is 
tender,  then  take  out  the  herbs,  spices,  and  bread ;  cut  a 
French  roll  into  four  pieces,  which  must  be  all  delicately 
toasted,  lay  them  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  beef  and  sauce 
upon  them. 

Note,  to  the  above  some  add,  in  stewing,  a  little  pearl 
barley  or  rice,  and  also  some  sliced  turnip.  We  see  no  ne¬ 
cessity  for  the  large  crust  of  bread ;  a  few  ounces  of  pre¬ 
pared  barley  may  be  advantageously  substituted  for  it  as 
well  as  for  the  rice  and  pearl  barley  sometimes  employed. 
In  the  place  of  sliced  celery,  its  seeds  may  be  advantage¬ 
ously  added  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  process. 

A  NEAT’S  TONGUE  is  sometimes  stewed;  we  be¬ 
lieve,  nevertheless,  that  boiling  is  the  best  method  of  dress¬ 
ing  it ;  the  flesh,  glands  and  other  substances  sometimes 
sold  with  the  tongue,  usually  called  its  root,  may,  however, 
be  advantageously  made  into  a  soup  or  stew,  as  an  econo¬ 
mical  dish,  which  it  is  not  necessary  here  to  describe.  If 
you  still  desire  a  tongue  stewed,  as  a  luxurious  dish,  pro¬ 
ceed  thus: — simmer  it  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it  for  two 
hours  ;  then  strip  off  the  skin,  and  put  it  again  into  the 
liquor  with  some  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  mace,  and,  some  di¬ 
rect,  whole  pepper  tied  in  a  cloth  ;  to  which  add  capers, 
chopped  turnips,  carrots  sliced,  and  half  a  pint  of  good 
gravy,  a  little  white  wine,  and  some  sweet  herbs.  Stew  till 
the  tongue  is  tender,  take  out  the  spices  and  herbs,  and 
then  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  or,  what  is  better, 
prepared  barley  or  pure  starch. 

OX-PALATES,  previously  to  being  stewed,  are  some¬ 
times  baked  till  they  are  tender ;  then  cut  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  wide  and  three  inches  long,  and  stewed  with  veal 
gravy,  a  little  Madeira  wine,  catchup,  browning,  an  onion 
stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  slice  of  lemon.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

Others  boil  the  palates,  take  off  the  skin,  then  cut  them 
small,  and  afterwards  stew  them  as  above.  Some  will  add 
force  meat  balls  to  the  stew,  which,  when  served  up,  must 
be  cut  in  half.  A  little  mustard  should  be  mixed  with  the 
sauce. 

Ox-palate’s  are  sometimes  marinaded;  that  is,  first 
boiled  till  they  are  tender,  and  then  steeped  in  vinegar  for 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING.  93 


s  three  hours  or  more,  to  which  are  added  salt,  pepper,  a 
a  clove  of  garlic,  flour,  butter,  a  laurel  leaf,  and  a  few  cloves, 
y  The  whole  is  next  made  warm ;  the  palates  are  then  taken 
9  out  and  fried ;  they  may  be  served  up  with  fried  parsley. 

Note. — It  might  be  supposed  that  this  dish  was  invented 
rl  for  the  express  purpose  of  giving  trouble  ;  the  laurel  leaf  is 
poisonous. 


“  The  force  of  folly  scarce  could  farther  go.” 

OX-CHEEK  is  sometimes  stewed,  to  do  which,  after 
what  has  been  said  concerning  stewing  in  this  chapter,  the 
particulars  need  not  be  specified ;  it  is  better,  however,  as 
an  economical  dish,  to  be  converted  into  soup.  See  Soup, 
page  30. 

ON  HOUSE  LAMB  DRESSED  WHITE  by  being- 
stewed  with  milk  and  ivater  with  a  variety  of  condiments, 
we  do  not  deem  it  necessary  to  enlarge.  Gourmands  may 
direct  and  devour  the  dish  when  prepared,  if  they  please  ; 
but  of  the  boiling  or  stewing  (which  is,  of  course,  a  low 
[continuous  boiling)  any  thing  in  cookery  with  milk  we  do 
not  approve,  even  when  water  is  added  to  it :  for  a  little 
[extraordinary  heat  will  impart  to  it  a  burnt  flavour  that  no¬ 
thing  can  remove.  Milk,  indeed,  requires  more  care  in  the 
application  of  heat  to  it  than  almost  any  other  liquid,  be¬ 
cause  it  contains,  if  good,  a  considerable  portion  of  albumen 
which  is  not  soluble  in  water,  although  it  can  be  mixed  with 
it. 

A  KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL  is  stewed  several  ways. 
One  was  given  by  Gay,  the  poet,  which  is  to  be  found  in 
most  of  the  miscellanies,  and  in  some  of  our  cookery  books. 
As  Gay’s  directions  are  obscure,  we  have  endeavoured  to 
make  them  more  intelligible  ;  cooks  do  not  want  riddles. 


- 


me 


i]f: 


fit 

he? 
ai 

M 
ilk 


Take  a  knuckle  of  veal — 

You  must  buy  it,  not  steal — 

In  a  few  pieces  cut  it. 

In  a  proper  jar  put  it ; 

Strew  in,  with  due  grace. 

Some  salt,  pepper,  and  mace — 
Bits  of  celery  a  few  ; 

Add  some  sweet  herbs  thereto. 
With  sorrel  and  thyme. 

And,  to  make  your  dish  prime. 


94  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

Do  not  parsley  forget. 

Before  you  on  set 

It,  you  may,  if  you  please. 

Add  unto  all  these. 

Spinach,  endive,  and  beet. 

Lettuce,  marigold  meet ; 

Or  whatever  you  fancy. 

Or  luxury  can  see. 

This  dish  to  improve — 

(  Dish  of  folly,  by  Jove  ! ) 

Put  no  water,  I  say. 

For  so  sang  Mr.  Gay  ! 

Closely  cover  your  vase. 

In  a  vessel  it  place. 

Having  water  enough 
To  stew  well  your  stuff ; 

Let  it  long  in  it  boil, 

(This  is  called  water-bath — 

A  good  cook  it  hath) 

After  four  hours'  toil — 

Be  it  more,  be  it  less. 

But  about  it,  I  guess — 

Perhaps  you  may  find 
A  dish  to  your  mind. 


Note,  that  a  clean  wide-mouthed  stone  jar  is  the  best 
vessel  for  stewing  this  dish  in  ;  it  should  be  placed  in  the 
water-bath  when  the  water  is  cold,  and  thus  be  heated  gra¬ 
dually  to  the  boiling  point  of  the  water,  which  must  be  kept 
constantly  at  the  same  heat  during-  the  whole  of  the  pro¬ 
cess. 

A  KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL  is  best  stewed  thus: — put 
the  veal  into  the  stewpan,  placing  under  it  a  few  wooden 
skewers  so  as  to  prevent  its  immediate  contact  with  the 
bottom  ;  add  to  it  a  little  mace,  whole  pepper,  a  bit  of 
thyme,  an  onion,  and  sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  to  this 
some  add  a  crust  of  bread.  Let  the  whole  simmer  for  two 
or  more  hours,  the  vessel  being  covered  but  not  closely. 
When  done,  serve  it  up,  and  pour  the  liquor  over  it.  Gar¬ 
nish  with  sliced  lemon. 

A  FILLET  OF  VEAL  is  usually  stuffed  as  for  roasting, 
baked  till  it  is  a  nice  brown,  and  then  stewed  with  good 
gravy  till  it  is  tender ;  a  few  morels,  truffles,  a  little  lemon 
pickle,  two  spoonsful  of  browning,  one  of  catchup,  and  a 
little  of  cayenne  pepper  are  then  added;  it  is  thickened 
with  butter  and  flour  or  pure  starch.  Put  the  veal  into  the 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING.  95 

dish;  strain  the  gravy,  which  pour  over  it;  lay  round  force¬ 
meat  balls  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  pickles. 

Note,  this  is  an  unnecessary  and  operose  method  of 
dressing  a  fillet  of  veal;  simple  roasting  is  much  better. 

A  NECK  OF  VEAL  is  larded  with  bacon  rolled  in 
pepper,  salt,  and  spices,  and  then  stewed  in  broth  till  it  is 
I  tender,  to  which  are  added  two  onions;  some  put  in,  besides, 
a  laurel  leaf  and  brandy;  both  unnecessary;  the  first  being 
poisonous,  the  other  flying  off  during  the  process. 

A  BREAST  OF  VEAL  is  also  directed  by  many  cooks 
to  be  stewed  with  a  little  broth,  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
sweet  herbs,  a  few  mushroons,  two  or  three  onions,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt.  When  it  is  done,  strain  and  scum 
the  liquor,  which  serve  up  as  sauce  poured  over  the  veal. 
Your  garnish  may  be  force-meat  balls  and  sliced  lemon. 

Note,  that  in  the  three  preceding  dishes,  gravy  and  broth 

iare  ordered  to  be  employed  instead  of  water  for  the  stew; 
but  how  much  soever  gravy  in  particular  may  suit  the  taste 
and  purses  of  the  luxurious,  it  is  not  suitable  to  the  econo¬ 
mical.  If,  therefore,  the  respective  joints  be  covered  with 
water,  and,  during  the  stewing,  a  good  deal  of  it  be  suffered 
to  escape,  the  employment  of  gravy  or  even  broth  will  be 
1  unnecessary. 

We  are  not  advocates  for  compound  or  complicated  dishes 
at  any  time,  but  the  following  method  of  dressing 

A  'BREAST  OF  VEAL  A  LA  SUISSE  comes  to  us 
so  highly  recommended  by  a  lady  (Mrs.  Johnson),  and  of 
which  we  have  more  than  once  partaken,  that  we  lay  it  with 
pleasure  before  the  reader. 

Take  the  middle  of  a  breast  of  veal  and  cut  it  into  pieces 
%  of  a  moderate  size,  fry  them  with  butter  till  they  become 
v brown;  cut  off  the  meat  from  the  gristle,  which  last  stew 
in  a  little  water  till  it  becomes  a  jelly.  Stew  now  the  meat, 
the  bones  and  the  dissolved  gristle  in  sufficient  water  with 
five  or  more  large  blanched  leeks  sliced,  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  till  the  meat  and  leeks  are  tender.  Take 
out  the  bones,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  serve  the  rest  up 
together. 

A  BREAST  OF  VEAL  another  way. — Half  roast  it 
and  then  take  out  the  bones  and  stew  it  with  a  pint  of  gravy 
and  two  ounces  of  truffles  and  morels,  till  it  is  tender;  pour 


96 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 


the  gravy  from  the  meat,  take  off  the  fat  and  add  some 
flour  and  butter,  a  dozen  of  oysters,  a  few  prckled  mush¬ 
rooms  and  gerkins,  and  a  sweetbread  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  fried;  boil  up  the  whole  together;  lay  the  meat  in  the 
dish  and  the  oysters,  mushrooms,  &c.  around  it.  _ 

A  CALF’S  HEAD  is  also  directed  to  be  stewed,  in  many 
of  our  cookery  books,  with  stuffing,  gravy,  eggs  oysters 
or  cockles  and  a  great  variety  of  other  articles ;  but  after 
our  directions  for  boiling  a  calf's  head ,  its  stewing  may  be 

effected,  we  are  quite  sure,  more  agreeably  and  as  u  eflty 

more  economically  by  the  youngest  apprentice  in  the  art 
than  by  the  operose  and,  we  must  say,  ridiculous  direction 

to  which  we  allude.  1. 

POULTRY  as  well  as  GAME  may  be  sometimes  advar  - 
tao-eously  stewed  in  consequence  of  its  toughness;  in  ee 
the  old  animals  of  this  class  are  best  stewed.  But,  never¬ 
theless,  some  will  have  even  young  chickens  stewed .  we 
therefore  o-ive  the  following  recipes;  but  we  consider  mo 
of  them  ministrants  to  luxury,  giblets  especially  e^epted. 
A  TURKEY  OR  FOWL.— Put  the  bird  into  the  stew- 


pan  upon  some  wooden  skewers  so  as  to  prevent  its  touching 
the  bottom;  add  to  it  a  quart  or  more  of  some  good  gravy 
or  broth  some  celery  cut  small,  and  a  little  mac  . 
it  till  the  bird  is  tender;  take  the  bird  out  and  add  to  the 
liquor  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  or  pure  starch,  two 
spoonsful  of  red  wine,  the  same  quantity  of catchup »  anda 
proper  seasoning  ol  pepper  and  salt,  01  1  p,  y 
bird  in  the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Note  that  some  bone  the  turkey,  adding  a  sort  of  stuffing 
made  of  the  liver,  mushrooms,  and  streaked  bacon  cut  into 
small  bits,  to  which  are  added  salt,  spice,  pars  ey, 


^CHICKENS  must  be  half  boiled  in  water,  then  cutup 
and  let  the  breast-bone  be  removed.  Stew  them  in  t 
liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled  with  a  bit  of  mace  and  a 
U?tle  salt  till  they  are  done.  They  may  be  served  up  with 

Pa  GOOSE  bGlBLETS  are  decidedly  proper  articles  for 
stewino-.  They  should  be  first  scalded  so  that  they  may  e 
more11  effectually  cleansed.  The  neck  should  be  cut  mt 
pieces,  the  pinions  in  two,  and  the  gizzard  sliced.  Thej 


97 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

inust  be  placed  in  the  stew-pan  with  water  sufficient  to  cover 
them;  or,  if  you  have  it,  some  broth;  to  this  you  may  add 
what  seasoning-  you  please;  some  put  in  sweet  herbs,  an 
anchovy,  some  whole  pepper,  cloves,  and  a  little  catchup 
and  an  onion;  others  add  nothing  but  pepper  and  salt;  this 
last  is,  we  believe,  the  best.  They  must  be  stewed  till 
tender.  You  may  serve  them  up  as  you  please.  The  li¬ 
quor  in  which  they  are  stewed  is  the  best  gravy,  to  which 
some  unnecessarily  add  butter  and  flour;  the  luxurious  will 
have,  besides,  cream;  there  is  no  objection  to  sippets  of 
bread. 

A  DUCK  may  be  stewed  for  the  luxurious  thus:  it  must 
be  first  half  roasted,  and  then  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a 
pint  of  good  gravy  and  some  red  wine;  you  may  put  in  a 
pint  if  you  please,  or  you  may  omit  it  altogether.  Add 
besides  some  onion  chopped  small  or  garlic  if  you  prefer  it ; 
some  lemon-peel,  sweet  herbs,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt; 
stew  it  till  tender.  Take  out  the  duck  and  strain  off  the 
liquor,  to  which  you  may  add  truffles  and  morels  and  walnut 
catchup  for  the  sauce,  which,  being  made  hot,  must  be  poured 
over  the  bird. 

I\  ote  what  is  said  in  regard  to  wine  under  rump  of 
beef  page  90;  and  also  the  general  observations  page  86. 

^  ou  may,  instead  of  good  gravy,  use  water  for  your  stew ; 
there  is  certainly  no  necessity  for  gravy  with  such  a  bird. 

A  DUCK  may  be  stewed  much  more  simply  than  the  pre¬ 
ceding,  and,  we  think,  more  agreeably,  with  greenpease  in  wa¬ 
ter  without  even  the  gravy,  and  assuredly  without  the  wine. 
Some  of  the  cookery  books  make  a  parade  of  this  dish;  but 
surely  a  cook  of  very  moderate  abilities  can  prepare  it  without 
any  directions;  a  variety  of  condiments  is  decidedly  injurious 
to  it.  Even  eggs  have  been  injudiciously  pressed  into  its  ser¬ 
vice.  It  may  be  served  up  with  parsley  and  butter;  your 
garnish  may  be  green  mint  boiled  and  chopped  fine. 

PIGEOiNb,  being  stuffed  with  sweet  herbs,  pepper, 
salt,  cloves,  and  mace,  and  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  half 
roasted,  must  be  stewed  in  good  gravy  with,  if  you  please, 
a  little  white  wine,  pepper,  mace,  lemon,  sweet  herbs,  and 
,an  onion ;  when  they  are  done  strain  the  liquor  and  add  to 
it  some  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  put  the  birds  again  into  the 
liquor  with  some  pickled  mushrooms ;  stew  the  whole  to°-e- 


98  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

ther  for  a  few  minutes ;  serve  the  pigeons  up  with  the  sauce 
poured  over  them. 

,  A  PLOVER  being  drawn,  and,  if  you  choose,  stuffed 
with  crumb  of  bread,  a  bit  of  butter  or  suet,  lemon  thyme, 
pepper  and  salt,  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  gravy  for  an  hour  with 
a  blade  of  mace  and  a  glass  of  wine.  Serve  it  up  with  the 
gravy. 

A  PHEASANT  must  be  stewed  in  veal  broth  enough  in 
the  first  instance  to  cover  it ;  when  it  is  nearly  done  put  in 
parboiled  artichoke  bottoms,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  glass  of  wine, 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  lemon  juice,  butter  and  flour  or 
pure  starch  to  thicken  the  liquor  for  sauce.  Serve  it  up 
with  the  sauce  poured  over  the  bird  and  forcemeat  balls 
around  the  dish. 

PARTRIDGES  must  be  trussed  as  for  roasting,  and  the 
craws  being  stuffed,  let  each  side  of  the  breast  be  larded; 
put  a  lump  of  butter  with  pepper,  salt,  and  some  bruised  mace 
into  the  bellies;  dredge  them  with  flour  and  fry  them  a  light 
brown;  stew  them  in  a  quart  of  gravy  with  a  little  madeira 
wine,  catchup  and  lemon  pickle,  to  wdiich  add  half  a  tea  spoon¬ 
ful  of  mushroom  powder,  an  anchovy,  half  a  lemon,  and 
a  bit  of  marjoram;  stew  them  for  about  half  an  hour;  then 
take  them  out;  thicken  the  gravy  by  boiling  it  a  little ;  pour 
it  over  the  birds  laying  round  them  boiled  artichoke  bottoms 
cut  in  quarters  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard.  This 
last  is  by  no  means  a  desirable  addition  for  persons  who  have 
not  extraordinary  digestive  powers. 

WOODCOCKS  may  be  stewed  in  a  similar  way  to 
partridges. 

CUCUMBERS  are  directed  in  some  of  our  cookery 
books  to  be  stewed,  being  first  cut  into  slices  and  fried  with 
butter  and  flour  till  they  are  brown;  but  it  is  altogether  a 
dish  that  seems  foreign  to  our  English  tastes  and  which  we 
cannot  recommend. 

GREEN  PEASE  AND  LETTUCE  make  a  much  more 
desirable  and  palatable  dish  stewTed  in  gravy  till  they  are 
tender.  Two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  or  ham  in  the  bottom 
of  the  stew-pan  will  be  no  contemptible  addition.  It  may 
be  seasoned  at  pleasure. 

THE  STEWING  OF  FISH  is  not,  in  general,  a  pro- 
oess  which  we  can  recommend.  Fish  require  little  heat  in 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING.  99 

dressing  them  compared  with  that  necessary  for  other  animal 
food ;  and  the  white  fish  in  particular  are  so  soon  dissolved 
by  a  long  continuation  of  heat  in  a  pickle,  or  even  in  com¬ 
mon  water,  that  the  greatest  care  and  circumspection  are 
necessary  in  subjecting  them  to  stewing.  One  general  rule 
may  be,  however,  laid  down,  namely,  to  stew  all  fish 
gently,  and  no  longer  than  till  they  are  tender.  As  stewed 
fish  may  be  considered  a  luxury  rather  than  a  necessary, 
oysters,  perhaps,  excepted,  wre  will  set  down  a  few  forms 
for  those  who  may  desire  this  sort  of  gustatory  stimula¬ 
tion. 

The  following  may  be  your  liquor  in  which  any  fish  can 
be  stewed. 

Take  some  good  veal-stock,  chopped  shalots,  anchovies, 
horse-radish  scraped,  a  few  slices  of  lemon  peel,  and  some 
port  wine  ;  season  it  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon- 
juice  ;  to  these  some  will  add  a  bay-leaf,  but  it  is  poisonous; 
in  regard  to  wine,  see  what  is  said  in  the  general  directions 
and  under  rump  of  beef,  above.  Boil  these  all  together 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  omitting  the  wine  for  rea- 
,  sons  before  stated  ;  strain  the  liquor,  put  the  fish  into  it, 
and  stew  it ;  add  the  wine  towards  the  end  of  the  operation. 
It  must  he  served  up  in  a  deep  dish  in  the  liquor ;  fried 
bread  may  be  placed  round  it. 

Note,  that  in  stewing  such  large  fish  as  cod,  it  is  usually 
cut  into  pieees,  and  stewed  in  white  wine  and  water,  with¬ 
out  the  addition  of  veal-stock.  Pike  is  stewed  sometimes 
with  red  wine  only,  and  no  other  liquid.  Carp  and  tench 
with  wine  and  water ;  a  barbel  in  eel  broth ;  trout  is 
stuffed  with  veal  or  similar  stuffing,  and  then  stewed  in 
good  gravy,  and  madeira  wine.  Soles  and  other  Jlat-fish 
are  first  half  fried,  and  then  stewed  as  other  fish.  They 
may  be  served  up  with  oyster  or  shrimp  sauce. 

Note,  that  carp  is  sometimes  stewed  in  its  own  blood, 
and  wine,  with  condiments,  of  course. 

In  serving  up  carp,  tench,  and  other  fish,  you  may 
garnish  with  some  of  the  hard  roe,  mixed  in  butter,  and 
fried  in  pieces. 

LAMPREYS  are  sometimes  first  fried,  and  then  stewred; 
they  are,  in  fact,  done  in  a  variety  of  ways;  but  in  every 
shape,  although  a  luxurious,  generally  an  unwholesome 

F  2 


100  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

dish,  as  the  death  of  our  king,  Henry  I.  testifies.  Even 
the  blood  of  this  fish  has  been  sometimes  employed  in  the 

stew. 

EELS  with  care  and  the  addition  of  pepper,  salt,  and 
some  spice,  may  be  made  with  pure  water  a  very  agreea¬ 
ble  stew;  with  gravy,  butter,  eggs,  anchovies,  wine, 
onion,  &c.  &c.  it  may  please  the  gourmand,  but  in  our 
judgment  they  will  spoil  it. 

PRAWNS,  SHRIMPS,  AND  CRAY-FISH  may  be 
stewed  in  water  with  vinegar  and  a  bit  of  mace  ;  some 
will  employ  wine  instead  of  water.  A  quarter  of  an  hour 
will  stew  them.  The  tails  are  usually  employed  to  flavour 
the  gravy,  which  is  thickened  with  flour  or  pure  starch 
and  butter ;  slices  of  toasted  bread  must  be  placed  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  over  which  the  fish  and  sauce  must  be 
poured,  and  thus  served  up. 

OYSTERS  are  best  stewed  in  their  own  liquor;  they 
should  be  just  scalded  and  no  more.  If,  however,  luxury 
ask  for  a  more  piquant  dish,  it  may  be  made  with  them 
several  ways.  A  most  elegant  one  thus  :  take  the  oysters 
without  their  liquor  and  scald  them  in  about  their  own 
weight  of  blanche-mange  and  a  bit  of  butter.  You  may 
add  what  seasoning  you  please.  They  may  be  served  up 
with  bits  of  toasted  bread.  Or  you  may  put  cream  to  the 
oysters  with  their  liquor,  adding  a  little  butter  and  flour, 
or  rather  pure  starch.  A  few  minutes  are  always  sufficient 
to  stew  oysters  in  any  way. 

SCOLLOPED  OYSTERS.  Put  into  the  liquor  of 
your  oysters,  carefully  made  clean,  some  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  lemon-peel,  and  grated  nutmeg;  add  the  oysters, 
being  bearded,  to  this  liquor,  and  let  them  simmer  in  it  for 
a  few  minutes ;  then  put  the  oysters,  with  the  liquor,  into 
scollop  shells,  or,  instead,  if  you  have  not  the  shells,  into 
tea  saucers.  Strew  over  them  crumbs  of  bread ;  set  them 
in  an  oven  before  the  fire  to  brown. 

Or,  which  is  a  simpler  and  better  way,  separate  the 
oysters  from  the  liquor  and  lay  them  in  scollop  shells,  with 
butter  and  crumbs  of  bread ;  brown  them  in  a  Dutch-oven 
before  the  fire. 

Note. — You  may  make  with  the  liquor  what  sauce  you 
choose. 


HASHING  AND  MINCING. 


101 


MUSCLES  may  be  also  stewed  the  same  way  as  oys- 
tess ;  but  care  should  be  taken  that  they  are  sweet  and 
wholesome.  We  do  not  recommend  them. 

HASHING  and  MINCING  are  essentially  stewing-  pro¬ 
cesses  ;  but  they  are  applied  chiefly  to  meat  and  other  ani¬ 
mal  food  which  has  been  previously  dressed.  In  general  it 
is  not  desirable  to  keep  such  food  long  in  a  boiling  heat,  as 
doing  so  is  apt  to  make  the  slices  tough.  In  hashing  as 
well  as  mincing  the  hones  must  be  separated  from  the  meat ; 
this  and  its  being  more  quickly  dressed  constitutes  the  dif¬ 
ference  between  both  these  processes  and  stewing.  Yet  in 
fowls  and  hare  the  bones  are  often  suffered  to  remain. 
Perhaps,  however,  the  best  way  to  treat  the  bones  of  both 
flesh  and  fowl,  is  to  make  a  gravy  by  boiling  them  for  a 
time,  more  or  less  long,  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water, 
with  onion,  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs,  catchup,  or  other 
condiments,  and  thus  heat  the  hash  in  it ;  it  may  be  thick¬ 
ened  with  butter  and  flour,  or  rather  pure  starch,  and 
served  up  with  the  hash  in  the  dish.  If  you  obtain  no 
gravy  from  the  bones  some  good  gravy  is,  in  general,  added 
to  the  hash  whatever  it  might  be.  With  these  directions 
added  to  a  little  discretion,  any  hash  may  be  made  ;  we 
shall,  notwithstanding,  present  the  cook  with  a  few  forms. 

VENISON.  Make  a  gravy  thus :  take  the  gravy  of  the 
venison,  if  you  have  any,  if  not,  take  some  veal-stock  or 
good  broth,  some  butter  and  flour,  an  onion  or  shalot 
chopped  fine,  to  which  some  will  add  a  glass  of  wine, 
cloves,  and  an  anchovy  minced ;  others  will  add  wine  to 
the  quantity  of  a  pint,  but  it  is  a  truly  wasteful  practice. 
Boil  the  whole  gently  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  to 
it,  after  being  strained,  the  venison  which  is  least  done, 
j  and  cut  into  slices.  Let  the  whole  boil  for  fifteen  minutes 
i  more,  seasoning  it  as  you  wish.  Serve  it  up  together  with 
I  sippets  of  bread. 

MUTTON,  already  dressed,  should  be  cut  into  very  thin 
slices ;  of  the  bones  should  be  made  a  gravy,  as  described 
under  hashing  and  mincing  above,  to  which  add  the  slices 
of  mutton,  a  little  butter  and  flour,  or  rather  pure  starch  ; 
boil  the  whole  for  about  five  minutes,  or,  at  least,  make  it 
boiling  hot.  Season  as  you  please  and  serve  it  up  with 


102 


HASHING  AND  MINCING. 


toasted  bread  in  your  dish.  Pickles  and  horse-radish  may 
be  the  garnish. 

BEEF  may  be  hashed  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton  ; 
some,  however,  will  lay  the  bones,  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  grilled,  over  the  hash. 

A  CALF’S  HEAD  HASHED  is  considered  by  gourmands 
a  splendid  dish.  It  is  usually  first  parboiled  and  then  the 
meat  is  cut  into  thin  broad  slices,  together  with  the  tongue 
also  sliced ;  it  is  then  stewed  in  good  gravy  for  about  an 
hour,  when  are  added  to  it  an  anchovy,  mace,  cayenne 
pepper,  truffles,  and  morels,  and  many  other  condiments, 
not  omitting  a  little  wine.  Just  before  it  is  done  put  some 
butter  and  flour  to  thicken  it.  The  brains  are  first  scalded 
and  then  beaten  up  with  eggs,  flour,  lemon-peel,  parsley 
and  other  herbs,  all  chopped  fine,  to  which  add  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  the  whole,  in  little  cakes,  into  boiling  lard,  in 
a  frying-pan;  let  them  be  done  brown.  Serve  the  hash  up 
with  the  gravy  over  it,  to  which  add  mushrooms,  forcemeat,, 
balls,  and  the  brain  cakes ;  and  you  may  add,  if  you  desire 
to  make  the  dish  peculiarly  unwholesome,  the  yolks  of  eggs 
boiled  hard. 

Note,  there  are  several  other  ways  of  hashing  a  calf’s 
head  ;  it  may  be  treated  as  hashed  mutton ;  and  this  is 
assuredly  the  most  wholesome  and  most  economical  method ; 
but  catchup  with  this  and  other  white  meats  should,  in 
general,  be  omitted. 

MINCED  VEAL.  Make  a  gravy  from  the  bones  as 
directed  for  hashes  ;  if  you  have  no  bones  you  may  add 
some  good  gravy  or  broth;  but  pure  water  is  often  employed. 
Having  cut  your  veal  into  very  small  pieces,  i.e.  minced 
it,  add  it  to  your  gravy,  broth,  or  water,  and  also  the 
following :  a  little  butter  and  flour,  or  rather  pure  starch, 
grated  lemon-peel,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt ;  some  add 
lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper,  and  cream.  Stew  the  whole 
gently  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  it  up  with  sippets  of  bread 
in  your  dish.  The  garnish,  sliced  lemon. 

TURKEYS,  FOWLS,  AND  RABBITS.  These  being 
previously  dressed  and  cold  should  be  cut  up  as  for  eating, 
but  the  legs  and  wings  should  be  separated  into  two  portions 
at  least,  the  turkey’s  legs  into  more,  Make  a  gravy  with 


STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING.  103 

veal  stack,  or  good  broth,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  flour  or  pure 
starch,  shalots  or  onions  chopped  fine,  catchup,  and  lemon- 
pickle  ;  boil  these  together  for  ten  minutes,  and  strain  the 
liquor,  into  which  put  the  turkey  or  other  article  previously 
cut  up.  Boil  it  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  it  up  with 
sippets  of  bread,  and  garnish  accordant  with  the  dish. 

Note,  some  add  to  the  gravy,  for  hashed  turkey,  a  little 
wane,  and  also  eggs  and  cream.  Onion-sauce  belongs  pecu¬ 
liarly  to  the  rabbit. 

Pheasants,  Partridges,  and  Wild  Fowl  generally,  may 
be  treated  in  a  similar  way  to  the  preceding,  varying  your 
sauce  with  the  peculiar  nature  of  the  bird. 

A  WOODCOCK  being  cold  and  cut  up,  and  the  entrails 
beaten  fine,  is  usually  hashed  in  a  gravy  composed  of  a 
little  red  wine  and  water,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  sliced 
onion,  to  which  are  added  butter  and  flour ;  boil  up  this 
liquor  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  put  in  the  bird  ;  when 
sufficiently  hot,  serve  it  up  with  sippets  in  the  dish,  and 
strain  the  sauce  over  it. 

A  HARE,  being  dressed  and  cold,  must  be  cut  into 
pieces  as  if  for  eating  ;  the  legs  into  two  or  more  portions  ; 
the  stuffing,  if  you  have  any  left,  may  be  mixed  with  some 
red  wine  and  water,  the  quantity  of  both  to  be  determined 
by  the  quantity  of  your  hare  ;  four  ounces  of  each  will  be 
plenty ;  to  these  add  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
or  starch,  half  an  anchovy  minced,  an  onion  stuck  with  a 
few  cloves.  Put  the  -whole  into  a  stewpan  covered  closely, 
and  make  it  thoroughly  hot ;  but  it  should  not  boil,  for  the 
reason  assigned  under  our  General  Observations  on  Hashing 
and  Mincing  above.  Take  out  the  onion,  and  serve  the 
hare  up  with  sippets  in  the  dish,  and  the  gravy  poured 
over  it. 

Note.  Here,  as  we  have  elsewhere  done,  we  must  again 
impress  upon  the  cook  the  necessity  of  avoiding  the  use,  if 
possible,  of  flour  in  all  gravies,  and  more  especially  in  those 
where,  as  in  this  direction,  it  is  not  even  boiled  at  all :  flour, 

I  in  its  raw  state,  being  peculiarly  unfitted  for  the  human 
stomach. 

A  HARE  IS  JUGGED  in  various  ways.  Some  will 
cut  it  into  pieces,  lard  it  with  bacon,  and  stew  the  whole  in  a 
stone  jar  closely  tied  down  and  placed  in  a  water-bath,  with 


104  STEWING,  HASHING,  AND  MINCING. 

a  great  variety  of  spices,  garlic,  onions,  bay-leaves,  (the 
reader  will  remember  they  are  poisonous,)  various  sweet 
herbs,  a  quart  of  veal-stock,  and  half  a  pint  of  red  wine, 
till  nearly  done ;  then  take  it  out,  strain  the  liquor,  and 
stew  the  hare  again  in  it,  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  till 
it  is  done.  Others  will  jug  it  without  the  addition  of  any 
liquid,  merely  adding  bacon,  spices,  &c. ;  but  of  this  we  do 
not  at  all  approve.  Our  own  way  is  the  following. 

The  hare  being  properly  skinned  and  cleansed,  cut  it  into 
separate  portions  as  if  for  eating,  dividing  the  legs  into  two 
or  more ;  prepare  a  stuffing  as  if  for  roasting,  and  put  it 
into  the  jug  with  the  hare,  rolling  it  into  several  balls.  In 
short,  treat  the  hare  in  respect  to  the  seasoning  and  stuffing 
as  if  you  were  about  to  roast  it,  except,  of  course,  you  must 
omit  all  relative  to  the  basting  ;  to  these  add  a  quart  of  good 
beef  or  mutton  broth.  Stew  the  whole  in  a  water-bath  till 
it  is  done :  it  may  possibly  take  two  hours  and  a  half  or 
three  hours. 

Note.  Instead  of  stewing  this  dish,  it  is  much  more 
conveniently  baked.  Wine  is  best  added  to  the  gravy  when 
your  hare  is  served  up,  which  it  may  be  in  precisely  the 
same  way  as  one  that  is  roasted. 


105 


- 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

FRICASSEES,  RAGOUTS,  AND  MADE-DISIIES. 


Fricassees  and  Ragouts  are  the  fruits  of  French  taste  ; 
Let  all  these,  your  Made-Dishes,  with  science  be  grac’d. 
Though  Fashion  may  order,  or  Lady  M.  Skeggs, 

A  dish  with  long  boil’d  and  unwholesome  hard  eggs, 

Our  duty  demands  that  this  signal  we  make — 

Let  no  tender  stomach  once  of  them  partake. 

Of  sauces  ill  made  with  wheat-flour  beware  ; 

Let  Lady  Simplicity  still  be  your  care. 

To  apply  well  your  knowledge  of  frying  and  boiling. 

As  well  as  of  stewing  might  save  yon  some  toiling; 

Bring  the  best  of  your  art  unto  every  dish ; 

And  spoil  not  by  over-much  stewing  your  fish. 


General  Observations.  To  the  directions  in  our 
motto  little  needs  to  be  added ;  yet  we  cannot  avoid  ob¬ 
serving  that  this  chapter  is  one  of  the  most  important  in  the 
art  of  cookery :  for,  averse  as  we  are  to  compound  and 
complicated  dishes,  it  is,  nevertheless,  indisputably  true, 
that  a  great  many  persons  in  the  middle  and  upper  ranks  of 
society  expect  to  find  their  cooks  expert  in  the  preparation 
of  such  dishes.  Still  we  must  insist,  as  far  as  possible,  on 
as  great  an  approach  to  simplicity  in  cooking  them  as  is 
■  consistent  with  the  essentials  of  the  compound. 

Against  the  addition  of  wheat  flour  and  numerous  con¬ 
i'  diments  to  many  of  the  made-dishes,  we  must  strongly 
protest.  It  is  time,  indeed,  that  the  learned  and  influential 
in  this  art  should  lift  their  voices  aloud  against  the  practice  ; 
it  is  time  that  cooks,  following  the  praiseworthy  conduct  of 
the  reforming  physicians  of  this  country  about  half  a  cen¬ 
tury  ago,  who,  in  their  then  published  book  for  the  Cookery 
of  Medicines,*  expunged  entirely  various  complicated  forms 

*  The  Pharmacopoeia  Londinensis  of  1788. 

F  3 


106  FRICASSEES,  RAGOUTS,  AND  MADE-DISHES. 

and  directed  those  only  which  were  more  simple  and  more 
efficient; — it  is  time,  we  say,  that  cooks  and  others  should 
begin  this  salutary  reformation;  and  although,  as  indivi¬ 
duals,  we  cannot  expect  to  completely  effectuate  so  great  a 
change,  yet  we  hope  to  do  much  towards  it  by  pointing  out 
the  proper  way,  and  simplifying,  as  far  as  possible,  the  pro¬ 
cesses  which,  in  this  our  New  Code  of  Cookery ,  it  hath 
fallen  to  our  province  to  describe.* 

We  have,  in  many  parts  of  our  work,  pointed  out  the 
impropriety  of  employing  hard  boiled  eggs  as  an  article  of 
food ;  and  here  again,  where  they  are  too  often  employed 
by  the  professed  cook,  we  once  more  feel  it  our  duty  to  lift 
up  our  warning  admonition. 

Of  bacon,  too,  that  almost  universal  assistant  of  the  cook, 
we  would  here  say  a  few  words.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  it  is  a  valuable  article  of  food;  but  we  think,  never¬ 
theless,  that  it  is  employed  too  indiscriminately  in  a  variety 
of  dishes ;  and  that,  in  made-dishes  in  particular,  its  use 
may  be  advantageously  circumscribed.  That  we  have  a 
high  opinion  of  this  viand  we  prove  incontestably  by  the 
following  lines,  written  a  long  time,  indeed  before  this 
volume  was  begun,  f 


*  We  are  prepared  to  hear  that  many  a  cook  has  been  thrown 
into  a  fever,  an  excitement  of  no  little  duration,  at  the  very  nume¬ 
rous  attacks  which  we  have  felt  it  our  indispensable  duty  to  make 
upon  some  of  the  most  favourite  dishes  of  the  professor,  in  this  our 
new,  and,  we  dare  say,  extraordinary,  code  of  cookery.  But  we 
can  most  sincerely  assure  all  such  that  we  have  not  the  least  wish 
to  offend  either  their  prejudices  or  their  knowledge  ;  on  the  con¬ 
trary  we  are  very  desirous  indeed  of  engaging  their  favourable 
attention  and  their  good  opinion.  We  hope,  at  least,  that  they 
will  not  condemn  us  unheard ;  and  wre  believe,  moreover,  that  if 
they  will  pay  attention  to  our  arguments,  (we  attempt,  we  propose 
no  change  without  offering  a  reason  for  it,)  they  will  not  only  get 
rid  of  their  extraordinary  excitement,  but  they  will  see,  on  sober 
reflection,  much  reason  to  be  thankful  for  the  innovation,  the  re¬ 
formation  which  it  has  been  our  duty  and  our  happiness  to  propose. 

t  The  best  bacon  is  that  which  has  had  the  hairs  singed  off  from 
the  skin  with  blazing  straw.  This  process  imparts  a  flavour  for 
which  we  seek  in  vain  where  the  hairs  are  removed  by  the  assist¬ 
ance  of  scaldiDg  water:  the  last  is,  nevertheless,  the  neatest 
practice. 


FRICASSEES,  RAGOUTS,  AND  MADE-DISHES.  107 

THE  UTILITIES  OF  BACON. 

Dear  Madam, 

Need  I  say  to  you 
What  honour  is  to  Bacon  due  ? 

Brown’d  by  the  blaze,  the  bacon-side 
Of  farmer’s  kitchen  is  the  pride  ; 

There,  on  the  rack,  aloft  it  lies, 

A  tempting  vision  to  all  eyes. 

It’s  good  with  fowl,  or  roast  or  boil’d  ; 

It’s  good  with  veal ;  it’s  good  too  broil’d  ; 

It’s  good  with  peas,  or  green  or  dry  ; 

And  with  potatoes  makes  good  fry  ; 

It’s  good  with  beans  in  summer  season. 

Or  boil’d  or  fried,  as  you  may  reason  ; 

And  for  a  stout  laborious  thrasher. 

It  is  most  excellent  as  rasher ; 

Which  he  may  cook,  supremely  good. 

On  pointed  stick  o’er  burning  wood. 

In  forest  should  he  be  at  work — 

A  simple  supplement  for  fork. 

F or  dishes  made  and  many  stews 
What  cook  to  cut  it  will  refuse  ? 

With  cabbage  good,  with  eggs  how  nice? 

What  want  you  more  of  my  advice  ? 

Oh — should  you  choose  to  eat  it  raw, 

Against  the  deed  there  is  no  law  ; 

Nay,  some  of  Esculapius’  tribe 
To  eat  it  raw  do  now  prescribe. 

If  you  have  that  with  simple  bread 
What  need  you  hunger  ever  dread  ? 

Wherefore,  the  merits  great  of  BACON  ! 

And  these  by  no  one  are  mistaken.* 

*  Dr.  Kitchener  says  that  bacon  is  an  expensive  viand.  We  do 
not  understand  how  this  can  be,  unless  when  it  is  purchased  in 
small  quantities.  Bacon  by  the  flitch  can  be  obtained,  generally, 
in  London,  for  two-pence  per  pound  less  than  when  it  is  purchased 
in  single  pounds  :  the  economical  should,  therefore,  avoid  this  last 
mode  of  purchasing  it :  the  least  economical  bacon  is  that  called 
streaky;  and  which,  if  eaten  in  large  quantity,  is  apt  to  produce 
thirst  similarly  to  other  salted  animal  food.  The  ancient  custom  of 
Dunmow  Priory,  in  Essex,  of  giving  a  flitch  of  bacon  to  the  married 
couple  who  can  affirm  that  they  have  never  repented  their  mar¬ 
riage,  nor  had  an  angry  word  during  the  first  year,  attests  the 

■  value  in  which  bacon  was  held  by  our  ancestors.  Of  its  estimation 
now,  in  some  of  our  rural  districts,  we  may  judge  by  this  anecdote. 
Some  years  ago  many  electors  of  a  Wiltshire  borough  were  brought 
up  to  London  to  give  evidence  before  an  election  committee  of  the 
House  of  Commons  ;  they  were  entertained  at  one  of  the  hotels  in 
the  Metropolis  in  so  sumptuous,  and,  to  them,  so  singular  a 
manner,  that  they,  after  remaining  some  days  in  town,  expressed 
not  only  their  dislike  of  the  food  set  before  them,  but  the  great 
desire  which  they  had  of  returning  to  their  more  customary  diet, 
cabbage  and  bacon! 


108  FRICASSEES.— OX-PALATES,  SWEETBREADS. 

The  term  FRICASSEE  implies  something  fried ;  the 
cooks  of  this  country  do,  however,  sometimes  apply  it  to  a 
stewed  dish ;  improperly  of  course,  but  we  cannot  oppose 
the  verbal  corruption.  The  following  are  some  of  the 
dishes  usually  termed  fricassees. 

OX-PALATES  being  cleansed,  must  be  soaked  in  warm 
water  for  half  an  hour,  then  taken  out  and  put  into  an 
earthen  jar,  with  water  to  cover  them,  and  submitted  to  the 
heat  of  an  oven,  sufficiently  hot  to  bake  meat,  for  three  or 
more  hours ;  take  them  out,  let  their  skins  be  stripped  off 
and  cut  them  in  square  pieces ;  add  to  them  some  cayenne 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  two  eggs 
with  a  spoonful  of  flour  or  rather  pure  starch,  into  which  the 
palates  must  be  dipped,  and  then  fried  of  a  light  brown. 
Heat  now  some  veal  gravy,  a  little  caper  liquor,  a  spoonful 
of  browning,  and  a  few  mushrooms  ;  thicken  it  with  butter 
and  pure  starch  ;  pour  this  gravy  hot  into  the  dish  and  lay 
the  palates  on  it.  Your  garnish  may  be  barberries  and  fried 
parsley. 

SWEETB PlEAD,  if  desired  brown,  must  be  first  scalded 
and  then  sliced  ;  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up 
with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  flour ;  and  fry  them 
a  nice  brown.  Thicken  some  good  gravy  with  flour  or  pure 
starch,  and  add  mushroom  powder  or  catchup,  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  cayenne.  Stew  the  sweetbreads  in  this  gravy 
for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  the  whole  up  with  a  garnish  of 
sliced  lemon. 

JSote,  here  an  adroit  cook  ought  to  make  the  sweetbreads 
brown  without  the  assistance  of  an  egg  ;  which  is  too  often 
a  mere  cover  for  her  carelessness. 

SWEETBREADS,  white,  are  usually  stewed  in 
the  following  liquor  :  veal  gravy,  butter  and  flour,  a  little 
cream,  grated  lemon  peel,  nutmeg,  w’hite  pepper,  salt,  and 
mushroom  powder  ;  let  these  all  boil  together  for  about  ten 
minutes,  then  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  previously  scalded 
and  sliced,  and  simmer  for  about  fifteen  or  more  minutes, 
occasionally  shaking  them  in  the  pan.  When  done,  you 
may  add  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  let  the  whole  be  served  up. 

Note,  this  may  be  a  luxurious  but  is  not  a  very  whole¬ 
some  dish  ;  cream  is  not  a  desirable  additament ;  the  flour 
will  be  well  exchanged  for  starch. 


FRICASSEES.  —  NEAT’S  TONGUE,  TRIPE.  109 

LAMBSTONES  must  be  fried  in  lard  of  a  nice  brown. 
Prepare  the  following  sauce  :  take  some  veal  gravy,  into 
which  shake  some  pure  starch,  (to  which  some  will  add  a 
bit  of  butter,)  put  to  this  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  little  catchup, 
lemon  pickle,  grated  nutmeg,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream;  heat  the  whole 
together  till  it  approaches  the  boiling  point  and  becomes 
thick  and  white  ;  but  it  must  not  boil ;  put  in  now  the  lambs- 
stones  previously  fried  and  kept  hot  before  the  fire ;  shake 
them,  and,  when  all  is  hot,  serve  it  up.  Some  choose  boiled 
forcemeat  balls  round  tbe  dish  with  a  garnish  of  sliced 
lemon. 

A  NEAT’S  TONGUE  must  be  boiled  till  it  is  tender  and 
then  be  taken  up,  peeled,  and  cut  into  slices,  which  must 
be  fried  in  butter  till  they  are  brown.  Pour  the  butter  out 
of  the  pan  and  add  to  the  tongue  some  good  gravy,  sweet 
herbs,  an  onion,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  a  glass  of 
wine  ;  let  the  whole  simmer  together  for  about  half  an  hour, 
then  take  out  the  tongue  and  strain  the  gravy ;  put  all 
again  into  the  pan  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  or  starch  ; 
let  them  simmer  for  about  five  minutes  ;  put  the  tongue  into 
i  the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Note,  this  is  an  old  fashioned  fricassee,  and  we  suppose 
is  still  admired  by  epicures  ;  we  advise  by  all  means  the 
omission  of  the  eggs ;  they  make  the  gravy  richer  but  more 
unwholesome,  unless  for  those  whose  stomachs  defy  all  the 
evils  arising  from  such  compounded  stimulation. 

CALF’S  FEET  must  be  first  boiled  till  they  are  nearly 
done  ;  the  long  bones  being  taken  out,  divide  the  feet  into 
two  parts  and  simmer  them  with  some  veal  gravy,  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  beaten  up  with  a  little 
j  cream,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  for  about  ten 
|l  minutes.  Put  the  feet  into  the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce 
S  over  them.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

Note,  the  eggs  and  cream  may  be  omitted,  and  instead 
'  a  little  pure  starch  may  be  supplied  with  advantage  to  the 
I  wholesomeness  of  this  dish. 

TRIPE,  previously  boiled  so  as  to  be  tender,  must  be 
cut  into  pieces  about  two  inches  square  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  as  much  wine  as  will  half  cover  them  ;  some 


no 


FRICASSEES. - PIGEONS. 


white  pepper,  sliced  ginger,  a  bit  of  mace,  some  sweet 
herbs,  and  an  onion ;  when  the  whole  has  stewed  about 
fifteen  minutes,  take  out  the  herbs  and  onion,  and  put  in  a 
little  shred  parsley,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  half  an  anchovy 
minced,  four  ounces  of  cream,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  a 
piece  of  butter  ;  it  should,  of  course,  simmer  not  boil  for  a 
few  minutes  longer,  and  may  be  seasoned  at  pleasure. 
Serve  it  up  garnishing  with  lemon. 

Note,  wre  scarcely  need  repeat  here  the  necessity,  when 
wine  is  employed  in  stews,  particularly  if  added  at  the 
commencement  of  the  process,  that  the  vessel  should  be 
closely  covered,  or  the  best  portion  of  it  will  escape.  This 
is  a  luxurious  and,  we  believe,  quite  an  unnecessary 
dish  :  Tripe  may  be  dressed  in  a  much  more  simple  and 
advantageous  manner.  See  Boiling  and  Frying. 

PIGEONS  must  be  cut  in  pieces  and  fried  of  a  light 
brown  ;  next,  let  them  be  stewed  in  good  mutton  gravy  for 
about  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  to  them  a  slice  of  lemon, 
half  an  ounce  of  morels,  and  a  spoonful  of  browning;  let 
them  stew  five  minutes  more,  and  put  them  into  the  dish  ; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  pure  starch,  and  strain 
it  over  the  pigeons ;  serve  them  up  with  forcemeat  balls, 
and  garnish  with  pickles. 

A  more  complicated  method  of  fricasseeing  pigeons  is 
given  in  some  of  our  cookery  books  ;  it  consists  in  stewing 
them  with  equal  parts  of  claret  and  water  and  a  variety  of 
condiments ;  the  gravy  is  made  with  eggs,  &c.  ;  and  they 
are  served  up  with  slices  of  bacon  toasted  and  oysters  fried. 

A  BROWN  FRICASSEE.  Take  a  rabbit,  of  course 
properly  skinned  and  cleaned,  a  young  one  is  usually  pre¬ 
ferred,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  as  for  eating;  fry  them  in 
butter  or  sweet  dripping  of  a  light  brown:  Put  them  now 
into  a  pint  of  water,  some  choose  beef  gravy  instead,  (which 
will,  of  course,  make  the  dish  richer,)  with  a  slice  of  lemon, 
an  anchovy,  a  bit  of  horseradish,  a  few  shalots,  some  lemon 
pickle,  seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Stew  the  whole 
over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  done.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  pure 
starch,  strain  it ;  and  when  the  rabbit  is  in  the  dish  pour 
the  gravy  over  it. 

A  WHITE  FRICASSEE.  Cut  a  rabbit  properly 
skinned  and  cleaned  as  directed  in  the  last  article,  and  stew 


FRICASSEES. — CHICKENS,  EGGS. 


Ill 


it  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  (some  employ  milk  and  water 
instead)  till  it  is  tender.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  butter 
and  pure  starch,  to  which  some  will  add  a  quantity  more  or 
less  of  cream  ;  others  employ  the  yolks  of  eggs  ;  it  is  sea¬ 
soned,  of  course,  with  salt  and  pepper  or  cayenne,  to  which 
some  will  add  powdered  mace,  grated  nutmeg,  and  pow¬ 
dered  mushrooms;  to  these  others  add  wine.  But  it  is 
essential,  if  cream  and  wine  or  any  acid  be  employed,  that 
the  gravy  should  not  boil,  or  it  will,  of  course,  curdle  and 
be  spoiled. 

Note,  we  give  this  form  because  we  presume  it  will  be 
expected  in  a  Cookery  Book  ;  but  it  is  so  decidedly  bad  a  dish 
that  we  at  once  must  put  our  veto  on  it.  The  brown  fri¬ 
cassee  is  very  superior  to  it. 

CHICKENS  may  be  fricasseed  in  the  same  manner  as 
rabbits;  we,  however,  only  recommend  them  brown ;  the 
white  fricassee  should  be  avoided. 

EGGS  are  also  sometimes  fricasseed  as  follows  :  Let 
them  be  boiled  hard  ;  take  out  some  of  the  yolks  whole  ; 
cut  the  rest  into  quarters  yolks  and  whites  together.  Make 
some  good  gravy,  to  which  add  a  little  minced  thyme  and 
parsley,  boiling  hot ;  then  add  to  it  the  eggs  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg :  shake  the  whole  up  with  a  piece  of  butter 
till  it  is  of  a  proper  consistence.  Fry  artichoke  bottoms  in 
thin  slices,  and  garnish  with  eggs  boiled  hard  and  minced 
small. 

Note,  that  this  must  necessarily  be,  for  the  generality  of 
stomachs,  a  very  unwdiolesome  dish.  The  peculiarity  of 
albumen  of  which  eggs  chiefly  consist,  arises  from  the  fact 
that,  when  once  it  has  undergone  the  change  which  it  ob¬ 
tains  by  being  boiled  or  otherwise  strongly  heated,  it  cannot 
be  restored  to  its  original  state  of  a  viscid  liquid  as  it  is 
found  in  the  raw  egg  ;  and  it  would  appear,  therefore,  that 
when  hardened  it  is  difficultly,  if  at  all,  miscible  with  the  fluids 
in  the  stomach  :  in  wffiat  that  change  consists,  does  not  now 
seem  to  be  accurately  known ;  we  only  know  its  conse¬ 
quences.  We  may  note  here,  in  passing,  that  gelatine  may 
again  and  again  be  dissolved  in  water,  and  dried  and  yet 
retain  its  original  qualities  :  a  proof  that  it  is  totally  different 
from  albumen.  Eggs  raiv  are,  therefore,  in  all  probability 


112  FRICASSEES.  —  MUSHROOMS,  FISH. 

the  best  state  in  which  the)T  can  be  eaten  and  then  best 
perhaps  when  mixed  with  some  generous  wane. 

OF  EGGS  WITH  ONIONS  AND  MUSHROOMS 
wre  cannot  of  coarse  approve ;  those  who  choose  such  a 
dish  may  thus  prepare  it :  boil  the  eggs  hard,  take  out  the 
yolks  w'hole  and  cut  the  whites  into  slips ;  cut  also  some 
onions  and  mushrooms  and  fry  them  with  a  little  butter  or 
good  dripping;  add  the  whites,  turning  them  about  a  little ; 
if  there  be  any  fat  pour  it  off  and  then  flour  the  onions,  and 
add  a  little  good  gravy ;  boil  this  up,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  then  put  in  the  hardened  yolks. 

MUSHROOMS  should  be  wrell  cleaned  by  being  peeled 
and  having  the  insides  scraped,  and  then  be  soaked  in  salt 
and  water  for  half  an  hour  or  more  ;  if  buttons  rub  them  with 
a  flannel ;  and  if  large  they  may  be  cut  into  two  or  more 
pieces  ;  stew  them  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  to  which 
add  a  little  salt  till  they  are  tender;  add  now  a  little  chop¬ 
ped  parsley  and  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  to  which  some 
add  a  glass  of  wTine.  Shake  the  whole  up  with  a  large 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  to  which  add  three  spoonfuls 
of  thick  cream  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  when  the  mixture  has 
simmered  a  few  minutes,  take  out  the  onion  and  cloves, 
and  pour  it  into  the  dish  to  be  served  up. 

ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS  may  be  fricasseed  either 
dried  or  pickled.  If  dried  they  should  soak  in  warm  wrater 
for  three  or  four  hours,  the  water  being  changed  during  that 
period  two  or  three  times ;  put  now  some  cream  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  them  one 
wray  till  the  butter  is  melted :  put  in  the  artichokes  and 
when  hot  they  may  be  served  up. 

SKIRRETS  must  be  well  cleansed,  boiled  in  water  till 
they  are  tender,  then  skinned  and  cut  into  slices  and 
served  up  hot  in  the  following  sauce :  a  little  cream,  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  w'ell 
beaten,  a  little  grated  nutmeg*,  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
and  salt,  all  which  must  be  boiled  up  together  for  a  few 
minutes.  Put  the  roots  on  the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

TO  FRICASSEE  FISH.  The  fish  of  whatever  kind 
to  be  fricasseed  must,  of  course,  be  first  completely 


113 


FRICASSEES.  —  EELS,  TENCH. 

cleansed  and  washed ;  then  the  head  and  bones  are  to  be 
separated  from  the  flesh  and  that  must  be  cut  into  pieces 
of  the  length  and  breadth  of  about  three  fingers,  and 
put  into  a  stewpan  with  butter  sufficient  to  stew  them 
gently  till  they  are  done ;  they  should  be  often  turned 
during  the  process,  towards  the  latter  end  of  which  some 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  an  anchovy  or  two  minced,  pepper, 
salt,  lemon  peel,  and  some  claret,  and  what  spice  you 
choose,  must  be  added,  when  the  whole  should  stew  for  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  yolks  of  eg'gs 
well  beaten,  to  which  add  oysters,  pickled  mushrooms,  and 
capers  at  your  pleasure,  and,  of  course,  the  gravy  in  which 
the  fish  was  stewed.  Some  will  make  a  gravy  by  boiling 
the  head  and  bones  in  water  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  and 
in  which  they  stew  the  fish  ;  or  some  good  gravy  may  be 
added  to  the  fish  while  stewing,  in  which  case  the  wine 
may  be  very  well  omitted. 

As  one  or  two  fish  require  more  particular  directions  we 
here  give  them. 

EELS  being  skinned  and  notched  from  end  to  end,  cut 
each  into  four  or  more  pieces  and  lay  them  in  spring  water 
for  half  an  hour  to  crimp ;  dry  them  in  a  cloth  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  butter,  an  onion  and  a 
little  minced  parsley ;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  shake 
them  about  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  put  in  some  white 
wine  and  some  good  broth,  the  quantity  of  each,  which 
should  be  equal,  will  depend  upon  the  quantity  of  your  eels 
and  the  discretion  of  the  cook  ;  add  also  some  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  mace.  Let  the  whole  stew  together  for  about 
half  an  hour,  then  adding  the  yolks  of  some  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  minced  parsley;  simmer 
jfor  a  few  minutes,  and  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon; 
'shake  the  whole  well  and  serve  it  up.  Your  garnish  should 
be  lemon. 

TENCH,  and  indeed  many  other  small  fish  may  be 
fricasseed  in  a  similar  manner. 

EELS  another  way.  Skin  and  wash  some  good  eels, 
cut  them  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long,  dry  them  in  a 
cloth,  then  dip  them  in  egg,  roll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  them  a  light  brown  ;  lay  them  on  a  sieve  before  the 
fire  to  dry  the  fat  from  them.  Then  prepare  the  following 


114  FRICASSEES.  —  SOLES,  FLOUNDERS. 

sauce :  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  three  table  spoonfuls  of 
mushroom  catchup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tea-cup  full  of 
gravy,  an  onion,  a  few  cloves,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  anchovy  sauce  ;  put  this  with  the 
fish  into  a  stewpan,  and  let  them  simmer  g-ently  for  ten  mi¬ 
nutes  or  longer  if  the  fish  be  not  done.  Take  out  the  fish  and 
keep  it  hot ;  strain  the  liquor  and  take  off  all  the  fat, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter ;  put  the  fish  in  a  hash-dish 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  it  quite  hot. — Yf* 

SOLES  and  other  FLAT  FISH  may  be  fricasseed  as 
directed  in  our  first  article  ;  but  these  are  usually  divided 
into  fewer  pieces,  six  or  eight,  and  the  head  and  bones  are 
boiled  in  water  to  make  gravy  for  stewing  them. 

SKATE  and  THORNBACK  have  the  flesh  separated 
from  the  bones  as  other  fish  ;  but  they  must  be  stewed  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water  with  spices  and  sweet  herbs  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  take  out  the  herbs,  and 
add  to  every  pound  of  your  fish  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good 
cream,  some  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  a  glass  of  wine  ;  the 
whole  must  be  shaken  continually  one  way  till  the  fricassee 
is  thick  and  smooth.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

FLOUNDERS,  having  the  flesh  separated  from  the  bones 
and  head,  and  divided  into  about  six  or  eight  pieces,  must  be 
dried  in  a  cloth,  dredged  with  flour,  and  fried  in  beef 
dripping  till  they  are  crisp.  Remove  the  fish  from  the  pan 
which  must  be  made  clean,  into  which  put  some  minced 
oysters,  with  their  strained  liquor,  some  white  wine,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  minced  anchovy.  Let  these  stew  together  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  the  fish  with  some  butter ; 
shake  the  whole  well,  and  when  hot  serve  it  up.  Some 
will  have  for  garnish  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard  and 
sliced  lemon ;  the  reader  already  knows  our  opinion  of  hard 
boiled  eggs. 

Note. — This  is  by  far  the  best  method  of  fricasseeing 
fish  which  has  been  presented  to  our  notice ;  but  even  here 
the  wine  might  be  very  appropriately  omitted. 

*  For  this  and  many  other  useful  recipes  we  are  indebted  to  a 
lady  resident  at  the  west  end  of  the  town,  who  desires  that  her 
name  may  not  be  made  public  :  in  justice  to  her  we  have  distin¬ 
guished  her  obliging  communications  with  a  Y,  as  above. 


FRICASSEES. —  OYSTERS,  RAGOUTS.  115 

SALMON  and  other  Jish  of  similar  firmness  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner  as  flounders. 

CODS  SOUN'DS  being  cleansed  and  cut  into  pieces 
should  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water  till  tender,  after  being 
drained  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  bruised  mace  or 
grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  which  add  some  cream 
to  your  fancy,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  or  pure 
starch,  and  keep  shaking  the  whole  till  properly  hot  and 
sufficiently  thick,  when  it  may  be  served  up  with  a  garnish 
of  sliced  lemon. 

OYSTERS  are  usually  fricasseed  thus:  stew  for  a  few 
minutes  a  little  butter,  a  slice  of  ham,  and  an  onion  stuck 
with  cloves,  and  then  add  a  little  flour,  some  good  broth, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel ;  put  in  the  oysters  and  let  them 
simmer  till  thoroughly  hot ;  thicken  now  a  little  cream 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  bit  of  butter  ;  take  out  the 
ham,  herbs,  onion,  and  lemon-peel,  and  add  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Shake  the  whole  in  the  pan;  when  it  simmers  serve 
it  up. 

Note. — This  is  a  villainous  compound  when  compared 
with  our  directions  for  stewing  oysters,  which  see.  That 
stomach  must  be  a  good  one  which  can  endure  such  a  dish. 

RAGOUT  is  a  French  word  implying  a  relish  or  excite¬ 
ment  ;  it  is  pronounced  Ragoo  here  as  well  as  by  the 
French  ;  it  is  commonly  applied  to  dishes  highly  seasoned. 
The  following  are  some  of  the  most  usual  ragouts ;  but  the 
professed  cook,  and  especially  the  epicure  whose  palate 
requires  such  sort  of  excitement,  and  alas!  for  him  who 
does  require  such,  will  doubtless  be  found  fertile  in  inven- 
tkrns  of  this  order.  We  can  only  say,  generally,  that  we 
do  not  approve  of  them  :  the  simplicities  of  our  nature  are 
in  such  dishes  greatly  counteracted. 

A  RAGOUT  OF  BEEF  may  be  made  with  any  beef 
that  has  a  portion  of  fat  attached  to  it;  but  all  the  bones 
must  be  separated  from  it,  and  the  meat  must  be  cut  into 
moderately  sized  pieces,  floured  and  then  fried  in  a  stewpan 
with  butter  till  it  is  brown ;  it  must  then  be  covered  in  the 
pan  with  the  following  gravy :  take  a  pound  of  lean  beef 
and  half  a  pound  of  veal  both  cut  small,  some  swTeet  herbs, 
an  onion,  some  whole  pepper,  two  or  three  bits  of  mace,  a 
small  carrot  sliced,  [to  which  some  will  add  a  slice  of  bacon 


116  RAGOUTS. — OX-PALATES,  MUTTON. 

steeped  in  vinegar,  a  crust  of  bread  toasted  brown,  and  if 
the  quantity  of  your  beef  be  large,  a  quart  of  white  wine 
which  is  directed  to  be  boiled  with  the  other  ingredients, 
till  it  is  half  wasted  ;  a  greater  absurdity  never  was  com¬ 
mitted]  and  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  all  the  ingredients 
stew  gently  for  at  least  an  hour,  when  the  gravy  must  be 
strained  off  and  put  into  the  pan  with  the  fried  beef,  to 
which  add  some  truffles  and  morels  minced,  with  some  fresh 
or  dried  mushrooms ;  to  which  some  will  needlessly  add  a 
little  catchup.  Stew  the  whole  till  the  sauce  becomes  thick ; 
then  add  some  artichoke  bottoms  quartered,  and  a  few 
pickled  mushrooms.  The  whole  must  be  boiled  together 
till  the  beef  is  tender ;  lay  the  meat  in  your  dish  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  it. 

Note . — In  truth,  this  is  neither  more  nor  less  than 
steived  beef ;  the  dish  will  be  found,  however,  described  as 
a  ragout  in  almost  all  our  cookery  books,  in  some  with  the 
addition  of  a  sweetbread,  a  palate  stewed  tender,  some 
cocks-combs,  forcemeat-balls  and  celery ;  a  pretty  com¬ 
pounded  hodge-podge  ! 

OX-PALATES  must  be  boiled  till  they  are  tender,  and 
then  cut  into  pieces,  some  of  which  may  be  square  and 
some  oblong.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  to 
which  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  or  rather  pure  starch,  stir 
them  well  till  the  mixture  becomes  smooth;  add  now  some 
good  gravy,  shalots  minced,  two  or  three  slices  of  lean  ham 
and  half  a  lemon  ;  to  which  some  will  add  a  glass  or  more 
of  wine,  but  it  is  unnecessary  :  the  quantity  of  gravy  must 
be  portioned  to  the  quantity  of  your  palates ;  boil  the  whole 
for  twenty  minutes  and  strain  off  the  liquor,  which  put  into 
the  pan  with  the  palates,  some  forcemeat-balls,  truffles,  and 
morels,  pickled  or  fresh  mushrooms  stewed  in  gravy; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  up  the  whole  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  serve  it  up.  Your  garnish 
may  be  lemon  or  beet  root. 

MUTTON  may  be  made  into  a  ragout  in  a  similar  way 
to  that  described  in  the  preceding  article ;  or  it  may  be 
fried  first  as  beef  and  subsequently  stewed  in  gravy :  it 
must  of  course  have  the  bones  taken  from  it  and  be  cut  into 
pieces.  The  garnish  may  be  pickles  and  sliced  lemon. 

LAMB  freed  from  the  bones  and  cut  into  pieces,  the 


RAGOUTS. —  SWEETBREADS,  VEAL.  117 

skin  being  previously  taken  off,  may  be  larded  with  bacon 
fried  of  a  light  brown,  stewed  in  mutton  gravy  suffi¬ 
cient  to  cover  it,  and  seasoned  with  sweet  herbs,  pep¬ 
per,  salt,  and  spice  ;  half  an  hour’s  stewing  will  be 
sufficient.  Strain  off  the  gravy  (keeping  the  lamb  hot)  and 
add  to  it  some  oysters,  fried  brown,  and  freed  from  the  fat, 
half  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  bit  of 
butter  rolled  in  pure  starch ;  boil  them  together  for  a  few 
minutes  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Lay  the  lamb  in 
the  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

SWEETBREADS  are  sometimes  first  roasted  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  being  previously  rubbed  over  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  strewed  with  crumbs  of  bread,  then  seasoned  with 
herbs,  pepper,  &c.,  then  warmed  in  some  good  gravy  and 
served  up  wuth  forcemeat ;  others  will  cut  them  into  pieces, 
rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  flour,  and  pepper,  salt,  and 
some  spice,  and  then  fry  them  brown  ;  and  stew  them  in 
some  gravy  with  cayenne  and  other  accompaniments. 

VEAL  must  be  separated  from  the  bones,  cut  into  pieces 
of  a  moderate  size,  and  fried  in  lard  of  a  light  browrn  ;  they 
are  then  stewed  with  sweet  herbs,  parsley,  &c.  in  good  veal 
broth  or  veal  stock  till  nearly  done,  and  the  liquor  become 
thick,  when  truffles,  some  fried  slices  of  throat  sweetbread, 
egg-balls,  artichoke  bottoms,  catchup,  pepper,  lemon 
juice,  and  salt  are  added  ;  let  the  whole  stew  till  it  is  quite 
done. 

Or  Veal  may  be  half  roasted  and  then  freed  from  the 
bones  and  stewred  in  veal  gravy  with  morels  and  truffles  ; 
when  nearly  done  put  in  some  oysters,  eggs  boiled  hard, 
and  other  condiments,  adding  a  sweetbread  as  above.  You 
may  garnish  with  pickled  barberries. 

Or  V’eal  cut  into  pieces  may  be  larded  with  bacon  dipped 
in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  strewed  with  minced  thyme  and 
i  lemon  peel,  and  fried  brown  in  a  stewpan  ;  while  others 
will  order  a  sheet  of  strong  cap  paper  formed  into  the 
shape  of  a  dripping  pan,  buttered  all  over,  and  placed  on  a 
gridiron  which  must  be  set  over  a  charcoal  fire,  into  which 
the  veal  must  be  put  and  let  it  do  leisurely.  After  it  is 
done  a  strong  high  seasoned  gravy  must  be  got  ready,  into 
which  are  put  mushrooms,  pickles,  force-meats,  oysters 
stewed  and  fried,  which,  in  serving  up,  must  be  laid  round 


118  ItAGOUTS. —  CALF’S  FEET,  GOOSE. 

the  dish.  If  you  desire  a  white  ragout  you  may  add  to  it 
some  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  some 
cream. 

Note,  the  dripping  pan  of  paper  is  the  acme  of  the 
ridiculous ;  for  the  rest  you  may  employ  them  or  not  as 
you  choose. 

Nota  bene,  the  above  directions  for  ragouts  of  veal  will 
apply  to  any  joint ;  but  the  second  is  usually  applied  to  a 
breast  of  veal  and  the  last  to  a  neck.  Note  also,  that,  in¬ 
stead  of  gravy  or  even  broth,  some  will  only  employ  water 
with  a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour  or  of  pure  starch. 

CALF’S  FEET  must  be  first  boiled,  after  which  the  meat 
must  be  freed  from  the  bones,  sliced,  and  then  browned  in 
a  frying  pan  ;  add  to  them  some  beef  gravy  with  truffles, 
morels,  pickled  mushrooms,  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard, 
salt,  and  some  butter  rolled  in  flour  :  let  them  stew  together 
for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  them  up  with  parsley  and 
butter. 

PIG’S  FEET  AND  EARS  must  be  boiled  till  they 
are  tender;  cut  the  ears  into  long  slips,  split  the  feet  down 
the  middle  and  stew  them  in  beef  gravy,  a  little  lemon 
pickle,  catchup,  and  browning,  to  which  add  some  salt  and 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  for  ten  or  more  minutes ;  or 
you  may  fry  the  feet  of  a  nice  brown  before  stewing  them. 
Lay  the  feet  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  and  the  ears  round 
them.  Pour  the  gravy  strained  over  them,  and  garnish 
with  crisped  parsley. 

Note.—  Some  will  dip  the  feet  and  ears  in  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning  before 
setting  them  to  stew. 

A  GOOSE  must  be  thus  treated  to  constitute  a  ragout. 
Skin  it  first,  then  dip  it  in  boiling’  water ;  break  the  breast 
bone  that  it  may  lie  quite  flat,  and  season  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  a  little  bruised  mace ;  lard  it  and  then  flour  it  all  over. 
Melt  a  pound  of  sweet  dripping  or  of  purified  beef  suet  in  a 
stewpan,  and  when  it  is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  g-oose  ;  as 
soon  as  it  is  brown  all  over  add  a  quart  of  beef  gravy 
boiling  hot,  some  sweet  herbs,  some  spices,  whole  pepper, 
two  or  three  small  onions,  to  w'hich  some  add  a  bay  leaf,  but 
it  is  poisonous.  Cover  it  closely  and  let  it  stew  gently  ;  for  a 
small  goose,  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  wall  be 


RAGOUTS. - FISH-SOUNDS,  OYSTERS.  119 

enough ;  a  large  one  will  require  nearly  two  hours.  Cut 
now  some  turnips  and  carrots  into  small  pieces,  slice  also 
three  or  four  onions,  boil  them  till  they  are  tender  and  then 
stew  them  with  some  pepper,  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour  or  pure  starch,  in  half  a  pint  of  good  beef 
gravy  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  When  the 
goose  is  done  drain  it  well  from  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
dressed,  put  it  into  the  dish  and  pour  the  prepared  gravy 
over  it. 

Note. — We  consider  the  beef  gravy  added  to  the  fat  in 
order  to  dress  the  goose,  and  afterwards  to  be  separated 
from  it,  and  perhaps  thrown  away  with  the  fat,  a  decided 
piece  of  wastefulness.  Surely,  if  the  goose  were  first  cut 
up  as  if  for  eating  and  broiled  or  fried  till  it  was  brown 
and  nearly  done  and  then  subjected  to  half  an  hour’s  stew¬ 
ing  in  the  prepared  gravy,  every  essential  purpose  of  a 
ragout  would  be  obtained  :  in  fact  any  tyro  in  cookery  can 
make  a  better  ragout  of  a  goose  than  this. 

THE  LIVERS  OF  POULTRY  are  thus  usually  made 
into  a  ragout.  They  must  be,  of  course,  cleaned,  and  then 
soaked  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour  or  more  ;  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  some  gravy,  pickled  mushrooms,  or  a 
,  little  catchup,  and  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  pure  starch  ; 

season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  them  for  ten  or 
j  twelve  minutes.  In  order  to  make  a  handsome  dish  the 
5  liver  of foivls  may  be  thus  done,  and  the  liver  of  a  turkey 
should  be  broiled  and  laid  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and 
n  served  up  with  stewed  fowls’  livers  around  it.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  whole  and  garnish  with  lemon. 
fi  COD  AND  OTHER  FISH  SOUNDS  may  be  made 
into  a  ragout  thus  :  lay  them  in  warm  water  for  a  quarter  of 
'  in  hour ;  take  them  out  and  simmer  them  in  good  veal 
,  gravy  till  done  enough  ;  thicken  them  with  flour,  butter, 

’  ind  a  little  cream,  to  which  add  a  hit  of  lemon  peel,  nut- 
"  peg,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  mace.  —  Y. 

1  OYSTERS  are  usually  made  into  a  ragout  by  being’ 
,  irst  separated  from  their  liquor,  then  dipped  in  a  batter  made 
•  vith  the  yolks  of  eggs,  nutmegs,  and  other  condiments, 
t  :ream  or  milk  and  flour,  and  then  fried  brown  in  a  stewpan 
vith  butter;  being  thus  done  they  are  set  before  the  fire; 
J  hestnuts  ready  blanched  must  then  be  fried  in  the  batter ; 


120  RAGOUTS. — MUSHROOMS,  ASPARAGUS. 

when  these  are  done  take  them  also  out  and  keep  them 
warm.  Pour  all  the  fat,  &c.  out  of  the  pan,  flour  it  and 
rub  butter  over  it ;  put  in  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  with 
some  bits  of  mace,  the  chestnuts  and  some  wine  ;  boil  these 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten  and  mixed  with  some  cream  ;  stir  the  whole  well ; 
when  it  is  thick  and  fine  lay  the  oysters  in  the  dish  and 
pour  the  ragout  over  them.  You  may  garnish  with  chest¬ 
nuts  and  lemon. 

Note. — Any  one  who  desires  an  unwholesome  mess  may 
here  have  it  in  tolerable  perfection ;  we  do  not  know  to 
what  country  wre  are  indebted  for  it ;  but  it  is  assuredly 
not  an  English  dish.  We  hesitated  for  some  time  as  to 
the  propriety  of  taking  any  notice  of  it ;  but  we  have  de¬ 
cided  in  the  affirmative. 

MUSCLES  may  be  fried  for  a  minute  in  a  stewpan  with 
butter  and  some  minced  parsley,  to  which  add  flour,  cream, 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  juice  ;  boil  the  whole  up  ; 
or  put  good  gravy  instead  of  cream,  which  is  better  and 
more  wholesome ;  but  they  will  then  be  brown,  not  white. 

MUSHROOMS  being’  peeled  and  the  insides  cleansed, 
must  be  broiled  first;  when  the  outside  is  brown  stew  them 
in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  add 
a  little  white  wine,  browning’,  and  vinegar,  thicken  with 
butter  and  pure  starch  by  a  little  boiling’  Serve  them  up 
with  sippets  of  bread. 

A  CAULIFLOWER  should  be  separated  as  for  pickling 
and  stewed  till  it  is  tender  in  g’ood  gravy.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  it  up  with  the  g’ravy  over  it. 
You  may  garnish  with  some  of  the  cauliflower  carefully 
boiled. 

Note. — This  is  notproperly  a  ragout;  it  is,  nevertheless, 
a  very  simple  and  a  very  wholesome  dish. 

ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS  may  be  made  into  a  ragout 
in  a  similar  manner  as  the  preceding ;  but  previously  to  their 
being  dressed  they  should  be  soaked  in  warm  water  for  two 
or  more  hours.  Your  seasoning  may  be  catchup,  cayenne, 
and  salt ;  the  gravy  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  pure 
starch. 

ASPARAGUS,  being  scraped  and  washed,  must  be  cut 
as  far  as  the  heads  are  green  and  good,  and  then  stewed  in 


ragouts:  cabbage,  french  beans.  121 

butter  with  endive,  a  young  lettuce,  and  an  onion,  for  about 
ten  minutes,  shaking-  them,  of  course,  about ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  strew  in  some  flour  or  pure  starch,  to 
which  add  some  good  gravy.  Stew  the  whole  till  the  sauce 
becomes  of  a  proper  consistence  and  then  serve  it  up.  A 
few  of  the  tops  of  the  asparagus  may  serve  as  garnish. 

CUCUMBERS  are  made  into  a  ragout  by  being  sliced 
and  stewed  in  gravy  with  condiments  ;  but  we  consider 
cucumbers  in  every  shape  a  dish  by  no  means  to  be  recom¬ 
mended,  not  even  when  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  as  they 
are  sometimes  directed  to  be  with  the  addition  of  wine. 

ENDIVE  finely  blanched,  is  sometimes  formed  into  a 
ragout  with  asparagus,  and  celery  as  a  condiment,  by  being- 
stewed  in  white  wine ;  to  the  sauce  are  added  butter,  flour, 

■  and  yolks  of  eggs,  cream  and  spice.  We  do  not  envy  any 
i,  one’s  taste  who  desires  such  a  dish. 

CABBAGE  too  has  been  forced  into  the  service  of  a 
ragout.  Here  we  have  a  singular  variety ;  besides  the 
cabbage,  are  added  to  it  the  flesh  of  a  plaice  or  a  flounder, 
j  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  butter,  onions,  and  a  long  list  of  condi¬ 
ments  follow  ;  a  precious  compound  of  epicurean  absurdity  ! 

FRENCH  BEANS.  String  and  clean  your  beans,  cut 
\  each  in  two  but  do  not  split  them  ;  and  let  them  lie  in  salt 
and  water  for  fifteen  minutes  or  more  ;  dry  them  in  a  cloth 
and  then  fry  them  in  sweet  dripping  till  they  are  a  nice 
brown  ;  take  them  out,  pour  all  the  fat  out  of  the  pan  into 
which  put  some  water ;  boil  it  and  then  add  some  butter 
rolled  in  flour  or  pure  starch,  some  catchup,  mushroom 
^pickle,  white  wine,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  some  bruised 
mace,  or  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt.  Simmer  all 

!  together  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  put  in  the  beans.  Let 
the  whole  be  well  mixed ;  take  out  the  onion  and  pour  all 
into  your  dish.  You  may  garnish  with  pickles  or  what 
you  please. 

We  have  done  with  Ragoilt : 

Though  it  does  not  please  us 
It  might  haply  please  you  ; 

lbr  others  disposed  to  believe  that, 

“  Much  mystery  lurks 

In  soups,  or  sauces,  or  a  sole  ragout/’ — Byron. 

“  But  what  are  your  soups,  your  ragouts,  and  your  sauce. 
Compared  to  Old  English  Roast  Beef?” — 

Hone’s  Table  Book,  page  178. 

G 


4 


122 


MADE-DISHES. 


MADE  DISHES — Why  all  dishes  are  made 
By  the  art  of  the  cook,  or  the  tricks  of  the  trade  ; 

Or,  by  that  good  dame — 

Whom  the  gourmands  detest. 

Though  her  dishes  are  best. 

Yet  least  known  unto  fame — 

Simplicity. 

Lord  Byron  has  most  happily  described  a  modern  dinner, 
and  to  him  we  must  refer  for  the  particulars  of  it,  assured 
that  he  who  likes  to  laugh  at  the  folly  of  an  epicure  may 
do  so  with  his  lordship’s  assistance  in  the  first  style ;  in  the 
mean  time  we  must  to  our  task,  with  a  slight  parody  of  one 
of  his  lordship’s  line3, 

“  How  shall  we  get  this  gourmand  section  through?” 

Adieu,  therefore,  to  simplicity  awhile  ; 

And  come  ye  the  comforts  of  each  Epicurean, 

Whether  consul,  or  count,  or  the  humble  centurion— 
Fricandeaux  ;  Surprizes — 

Surprising  indeed. 

That  of  sense  take  no  heed  ; 

And  Scollops  all  sizes  ; 

Beef,  too,  d-la-mode , 

Must  be  placed  in  our  code. 

With  rich  Haricot, 

Made  with  mutton  or  veau  ; 

And  the  ten  thousand  dishes  of  fancy’s  wild  dream  ; 

Or  the  fruit  of  the  fancy  of  Monsieur  CAReME.* 

*  This  gentleman  is  one  of  the  most  distinguished  and  volu¬ 
minous  of  modern  French  writers  on  the  art  of  cookery.  We  shall 
take  occasion  to  notice  his  works  more  at  large  in  our  Introduction  ; 
but  we  may  here  observe  that  he  is  the  most  imaginative  of  all  the 
cooks  whom  it  has  been  our  good  fortune  to  meet;  indeed,  much 
too  imaginative  for  the  details  of  domestic  and  ordinary  cookery ; 
all  with  him  is  in  the  superlative  degree  ;  he  deals  with  few  per¬ 
sons  but  emperors  and  kings,  princes,  and  their  ambassadors ;  almost 
every  thing  French  is  with  him,  too,  excellente,  superbe.  He  admits, 
however,  that  “  la  boucherie  de  Londres  est  tres  belle,  tres  ra- 
goutante,  et  de  belle  qualite.”  He  admits,  too,  that  our  fish¬ 
mongers’  shops  are  very  superior  to  those  in  France.  But  he, 
nevertheless,  contends  that  “  La  France  est  veritablement  la  mere 
patrie  de  l’art  culinaire.”  One  wonders  how,  with  this  national 
complacency,  his  good  sense  did  not  suggest  to  him  the  great  dif¬ 
ference  of  tastes,  habits,  and  constitutions ;  and  that,  after  all, 
roast  beef  might  possibly  suit  an  Englishman  better  than  soup 
maigre,  or  the  many  other  more  compounded  dishes  of  the  French 
table.  The  men  of  the  south,  seem  to  forget  that  the  men  of  the 
north  require  more  stimulants,  both  internally  as  well  as  exter¬ 
nally,  to  keep  their  mortal  machines  in  motion,  than  those  living 
in  more  warm  and  favourable  climates. 


MADE-DISHES. - HARICOT  OF  VEAL,  &C.  123 

TOMATO  CHOPS.  Cut  from  the  best  end  of  a  neck 
of  lamb  about  ten  chops ;  pepper,  salt,  and  fry  them  a  light 
brown ;  then  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  good 
gravy  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  tomato  sauce ;  let  them 
stew  till  they  are  tender;  then  take  off  all  the  fat  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  and  three  more 
spoonsful  of  the  sauce  ;  simmer  the  whole  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve  it  up  very  hot. — Y. 

HARICOT  OF  VEAL.  Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck 
of  veal,  saw  the  bones  off  short ;  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  gravy 
till  it  is  tender ;  have  ready  a  pint  of  green  peas  boiled ; 
two  cucumbers  pared  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  two 
cabbage-lettuces  cut  into  quarters  ;  stew  these  in  some  broth 
till  they  are  tender,  then  put  them  to  the  peas  and  the  veal ; 
stew  all  together  ten  minutes ;  serve  it  up  hot  with  force¬ 
meat  balls  round  the  dish.* — Y. 

A  FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL  is  made  in  many  ways; 
perhaps  the  following  is  as  good  as  any.  Cut  off  from  a 
leg  of  veal  some  slices  or  steaks  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
four  or  more  inches  long  and  two  or  three  wide ;  immerse 
them  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  take  them 
out,  and  stew  them  till  they  are  tender  in  some  good  gravy, 
to  which  add  some  swreet  herbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  mace,  and 
a  piece  of  butter.  Some  put  in  also  carrots ;  and  some 
lard  the  veal  with  slices  of  bacon ;  others  lard  them  with 
cardoons,  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  fry  them  a  fine 
brown  before  stewing  them.  When  done,  lay  your  veal  in 
a  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  strained  over  it.  Force-meat 
balls  or  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard  are  occasionally  added  to 
this  dish,  which  some  serve  up  with  sorrel  sauce.  The 
garnish  may  be  sliced  lemon  and  barberries, 
j  VEAL  OLIVES  are  made  several  ways;  some  take 
thin  slices  of  fat  bacon  about  six  inches  long  and  four  broad, 
and  lay  on  them  slices  of  veal,  of  the  same  size,  cut  from  a 

*  The  word  haricot  is  French,  and,  in  that  language,  implies 
literally  French-bean  ;  it  is  pronounced  here,  as  well  as  in  France, 
harico.  Itis,  however,  commonly  applied  in  this  country  to  a  stewed 
lldish  composed,  as  above,  of  animal  and  vegetable  substances.  We 
conjecture  that,  originally,  Frencli-beans  constituted  one  of  the 
chief  ingredients  of  the  dish,  and,  if  they  still  entered  into  it, 
in  the  green  state  in  which  we  eat  them,  they  would  not  be  the 
vorst  which  we  often  find  in  these  compounds. 

G  2 


124  MADE-DISHES. —  GRENADE  OF  VEAL. 


fillet ;  they  are  then  rubbed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a 
thin  layer  of  force-meat  is  put  on  them,  and  each  slice  of 
bacon  and  veal  is  rolled  up,  a  lark-spit  is  run  through  each 
sideways,  a  string  being  tied  over  them  to  prevent  their 
falling  off,  and  they  are  gently  roasted.  Others  make  a 
ragout  of  oysters  or  sweetbreads,  with  mushrooms  and 
morels,  and  lay  them  in  the  dish  with  the  veal  olives  when 
done.  Serve  them  up  with  good  gravy  in  the  dish  and 
forcemeat  balls  around  it.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

A  GRENADE  OF  VEAL  is  sometimes  made  with 
larded  slices  of  veal,  squab  pigeons,  veal  sweetbreads,  and 
some  mushrooms,  stewed  in  some  good  gravy,  till  they  are 
all  tender ;  slices  of  ham  and  bacon,  with  forcemeat  and 
the  larded  veal,  are  then  placed  in  the  stewpan  with  some 
yolks  of  eggs,  to  which  are  to  be  added  the  ragout  of 
pigeons  ;  all  which  must  be  stewed  till  it  is  done.  A  pretty 
compound  indeed  ! 

GRENADINES  OF  VEAL  are  more  simple  than  the 
preceding1 ;  they  are  similar  to  the  fricandeau  ;  three  pieces 
make  a  dish. 

A  LOIN  OF  VEAL.  Take  the  best  end  ;  cut  out  the 
fillet  and  make  a  forcemeat  with  it  and  a  little  suet,  some 
green  sweet  herbs,  truffles,  mushrooms,  and  lemon  peel, 
all  chopped  small,  to  which  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  the 
erumb  of  a  French  roll  soaked  in  cream,  some  pepper  and 
salt ;  mix  them  all  well  together  and  put  them .  into  the 
under  part  of  the  loin  which  roll  in  a  veal  caul  and  then  in 
a  buttered  paper ;  roast  it  gently  ;  half  an  hour  before  it  is 
done  take  off  the  paper  in  order  that  it  may  become  brown  ; 
glaze  it,  and  serve  it  up  with  white  sauce. — Y. 

A  LOIN  OF  VEAL  EN  EPIGRAM.  Roast  a  loin 
of  veal  exactly  as  for  eating ;  (see  Roasting,  page  43,)  when  it 
is  done  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  carefully  take  off  the 
skin  from  the  back  part  without  breaking  it ;  cut  out  all  the 
lean  meat  letting  the  ends  remain  so  that  they  may  hold  the 
following  :  let  all  the  meat  cut  out  be  minced  very  fine 
together  with  the  kidney  ;  to  which  add  a  little  veal  gravy, 
enough  to  moisten  it,  with  the  gravy  from  the  roasted  loin, 
and  also  a  little  pepper,  salt,  some  lemon  peel  chopped  fine, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  catchup,  and  a  little 
butter  rolled  in  flour  :  set  the  whole  for  a  few  minutes  over 


MADE-DISHES.  —  CALF’S  HEAD  SURPRIZE.  125 

the  fire,  carefully  shaking  it  that  it  may  not  burn  ;  put  it 
into  the  place  from  which  the  meat  in  the  loin  has  been 
taken  and  pull  the  skin  over  it :  if  the  skin  should  not  quite 
cover  it,  give  it  a  brown  with  a  hot  iron  where  wanting ;  or 
rather  put  it  into  an  oven  or  lay  it  before  a  good  fire  for 
about  fifteen  minutes,  and  it  may  be  served  up.  Garnish 
with  barberries  and  lemon. 

Note,  this  direction  is  substantially  that  given  by  Mrs. 
Glasse,  alias  Sir  John  Hill;  (more  than  sixty  years  since  ;) 
but  surely  the  flour  directed  with  the  butter  may  be  ad- 
1  vantageously  omitted. 

VEAL  ROLLS  consist  of  thin  slices  of  veal  covered 
with  forcemeat,  rolled  up,  tied  with  thread  and  roasted  on 
I  a  bird-spit  being  previously  rubbed  over  with  yolks  of  eggs 
and  floured  ;  they  should  be  basted  with  butter.  They  are 

I  to  be  served  up  with  some  good  gravy,  with  truffles,  morels, 
and  mushrooms,  garnish  with  lemon. 

CALF’S  HEAD  SURPRIZE.  We  have  given  already 
more  than  one  method  of  dressing  a  calf’s  head,  which  are 
surely  enough  for  the  economist  and  the  good  housewife  ; 
but  as  this  dish  is  considered  by  many  a  very  good  one,  and 
is,  besides,  one  of  very  long  standing  in  this  country,  we 
|  comply  with  custom  in  this  instance  ;  from  which,  however, 

I  we  make  it  a  point  always  to  depart  when  more  simple 
i  and  better  methods  of  cooking  are  presented  to  us  :  we 
are,  nevertheless,  no  advocates  for  novelty  in  cooking, 

Iper  se  knowing  very  well  that  many  of  our  good  old  English 
dishes,  with  a  good  appetite,  are  the  best  which  can  be 
devised. 

Take  a  calf’s  head  with  the  skin  on,  (it  being  well  cleansed 
s  and  freed  from  the  hairs,)  and  raise  the  skin  with  a  sharp 
knife  carefully,  and  separate  also  as  much  meat  from  the 
bones  as  you  possibly  can,  so  that,  when  the  bones  are  re- 
i  moved,  it  may  appear  like  a  whole  head  on  being  stuffed 
it  with  the  following  ingredients  :  scrape  a  pound  of  fat  bacon 
I  very  fine,  (some  employ,  instead,  half  a  pound  of  veal,  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  and  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon;  the  veal 
i  to  be  pounded  in  a  mortar  and  the  rest  to  be  chopped  very 
fine,)  the  crumb  of  a  twopenny  loaf,  a  small  nutmeg  grated, 
i  a  little  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  lemon  peel  all  chopped 
i  fine  ;  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  ; 


126 


MADE-DISHES. - VEAL  SCOLLOPS. 


put  some  of  this  stuffing-  into  the  ears  and  the  rest  into  the 
head.  This  being  done,  place  the  stuffed  head  in  a  deep 
pan  or  jar  sufficiently  large  to  hold  it  conveniently,  and  add 
to  it  two  quarts  of  water,  (some  may  be  disposed  to  employ 
good  gravy  instead  of  water,)  half  a  pint  of  wine,  a  blade 
or  two  of  mace,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  an  anchovy,  two 
spoonsful  of  walnut  and  of  mushroom  catchup,  the  same 
quantity  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Lay  a  coarse  paste  over  it  to  prevent  evaporation,  and  put 
it  into  a  very  hot  oven,  in  which  it  must  remain  for  two 
hours  and  a  half.  The  head  must  now  be  taken  out  and 
laid  in  a  soup  dish  ;  take  the  fat  off  from  the  gravy  which 
strain  into  a  stewpan  and  thicken  it  with  some  butter  rolled 
in  Hour ;  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  well  beaten  with  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  having  now 
ready  some  forcemeat  balls  boiled  with  half  an  ounce  of 
truffles  and  morels,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  head,  garnish 
with  the  truffles,  morels,  and  forcemeat  balls,  and  bar¬ 
berries  and  mushrooms,  and  serve  it  up.  It  is  scarcely 
necessary  to  add  that  the  stuffing  should  be  well  secured  by 
sewing-  or  otherwise  within  the  head,  before  it  is  put  into 
the  pan  to  be  baked. 

Note,  you  must  not  boil  the  forcemeat  balls  in  the  gravy  ; 
but  rather  in  some  broth  or  milk  and  water.  And  note  more 
particularly ,  that  the  tongue,  the  palate,  and  the  brains, 
being  scalded  and  otherwise  suitably  prepared,  must  be 
chopped  very  fine  and  mixed  with  the  forcemeat  stuffing  as 
above  directed ;  or  they  may  be  made,  in  the  usual  way, 
into  forcemeat  balls ;  or  the  tongue  and  the  palate  may  be 
boiled  till  they  are  tender,  and  served  up  in  a  separate  dish 
with  the  brains  made  into  sauce,  poured  over  them ;  or 
the  brains  may  be  served  up  separately  in  a  sauce  tureen. 
See  Boiling,  page  3. 

VEAL  SCOLLOPS,  sometimes  called  Scotch  Scollops  * 
are  dressed  in  various  ways,  the  following  is  the  simplest 
and  we  believe  the  best :  cut  veal  from  a  fillet  into  small  thin 
pieces,  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  strew  over 

*  This  word,  which  we  spell  scollop,  is  usually  spelled  in  books 
collop ;  but  we  think  this  last  is  erroneous:  for  it  is,  we  believe, 
an  anglo-saxon  word,  and  it  is,  besides,  very  generally  pronounced 
scollop.  See  my  work  on  the  Somerset  Dialect.  J.  J. 


MADE-DISHES. — BOMBARDED  VEAL.  127 

them  crumbs  of  bread  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown.  Let  them 
be  served  up  with  some  good  gravy,  into  which  put  some 
grated  nutmeg  and  seasoning.  Garnish  with  hot  pickles 
and  barberries 

Or,  after  the  scollops  are  fried  you  may  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  some  good  gravy,  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels, 
artichoke  bottoms,  some  slices  of  throat  sweetbreads  pre¬ 
viously  fried,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard.  Simmer 
them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  adding  salt  and 
pepper.  Serve  them  up  with  the  gravy  and  slices  of  boiled 
bacon  around  the  dish. 

Or,  they  may  be  made  dressed  in  a  much  more  compli¬ 
cated  manner  by  having  added  to  them  ox-palates,  force¬ 
meat  balls,  the  gravy  thickened  with  butter  and  flour,  to 
!  which  may  be  added  a  minced  anchovy,  some  catchup, 
lemon  pickle,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper,  to  which  some  will 
add  a  glass  of  wine.  Serve  them  up  wTith  the  gravy  poured 
'  over  them.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  hot  pickles.  For  other 
I  Scotch  Scollops,  see  forwards  under  Beef. 

BOMBARDED  VEAL  is  a  fillet  of  veal  having  the 
bone  taken  out  its  place  supplied  with  a  rich  stuffing  of 
which  fat  scraped  bacon  forms  a  great  part,  wdth  various 
condiments  to  which  are  added  cream  and  egg;  besides 
which  cuts  are  made  into  the  fillet  at  about  an  inch  apart, 
into  some  of  which  is  put  a  portion  of  the  stuffing,  into 
others  boiled  and  minced  spinach,  and  into  others  chopped 
!  oysters  and  beef  marrow.  In  this  state  having  a  veal  caul 
wrapped  round  it,  it  is  placed  in  a  pot  with  a  small  quan¬ 
tity  of  water  and  baked.  The  time  necessary  for  its  being- 
done  will  of  course  depend  upon  the  weight  of  the  fillet. 
I  See  Baking.  We  pass  no  opinion  on  this  dish. 

VEAL  SWEETBREADS  are  sometimes  stuffed  with 
a  forcemeat  made  of  the  flesh  of  a  fowl  and  bacon  both 
!  chopped  fine,  and  afterwards  beaten  in  a  mortar,  to  which 
are  added  various  condiments  and  the  yolks  of  eggs.  They 
are  then  put  into  a  stewpan  having  layers  of  bacon  at  the 
bottom  over  which  are  placed  thin  slices  of  veal,  and  lastly, 
the  stuffed  sweetbreads  with  boiling  water  or  broth  suffi¬ 
cient  to  cover  them,  and  stewed  for  two  or  more  hours. 
The  gravy  is  then  strained  off,  the  fat  taken  from  it,  and  if 


128  MADE-DISHES. — SCOTCH  SCOLLOPc. 

it  be  too  thin  it  is  reduced  by  boiling  to  a  proper  thickness, 
and  then  poured  over  the  sweetbreads. 

Note. — This  is  an  expensive,  troublesome,  and,  in  our 
opinion,  an  unnecessary  dish  :  it  is  sometimes,  however  dis¬ 
tinguished  by  the  fine  name  a  la  dauphine. 

SWEETBREADS  are  dressed  in  several  other  ways  ; 
some  are  called  sweetbreads  a  la  daube,  being  larded  with 
bacon  boiled  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  stewed  with  gravy. 
Others  are  sweetbreads  en  Gordiniere ;  these  are  dressed 
similarly  to  the  preceding  with  the  addition  of  an  omelette 
of  eggs  and  spinach  with  some  other  ingredients. 

VEAL  STUFFING  is  directed  to  be  prepared  with  the 
dishes  which  we  have  respectively  described;  but  we  think 
it  may  be  useful  to  the  cook  to  be  able  to  refer  at  once  to 
it  here,  more  especially  as  the  recipe  is  a  very  good  one  and 
may  be  employed  for  poultry,  as  well  as  many  other  birds ; 
it  is  besides  a  direction  which  has  been  followed  in  our  own 
family  for  nearly  one  hundred  years  :  we  may,  therefore, 
write  probatum  est  for  it  with  the  greatest  propriety. 

Take  raw  veal,  beef  suet,  and  grated  bread,  of  each  an 
equal  quantity ;  mince  them  very  fine,  to  which  add,  also 
minced,  some  sweet  herbs,  a  little  onion,  and  pepper,  and 
salt,  mix  the  whole  well  together  and  moisten  it  with  the 
yolk  of  eggs  sufficient  to  make  it  of  a  proper  consistence. 

Several  other  made  dishes  of  veal  may  be  named,  as 
Veal  cutlets  in  papilotes ;  Porcupine  of  a  breast  of 
veal;  Fricandeau  of  veal  a-la-bourgeois ;  a  Calf’s 
pluck ;  a  Pillow  of  veal ;  a  Shoulder  of  veal  d-la- 
Piedmontoise ;  a  Chump  of  veal  a-lu-daub  ;  a  Midcalf ; 
and  a  Savoury  dish  of  veal,  which  we  presume  any 
cook  could  prepare.  But  were  we  to  describe  these  it 
would  savour  too  much  of  the  art  of  book  making ;  our 
chief  object  in  this  work  is  to  condense  not  to  amplify. 
We  proceed,  therefore,  to  the  made  dishes  of  which  beef 
forms  the  chief  ingredient. 

SCOTCH  SCOLLOPS.  For  the  following  directions 
we  are  indebted  to  Mrs.  Dalgairns,  whose  work  on 
Cookery  is  distinguished  by  considerable  talent  and  sim¬ 
plicity ;  we  admit  that  the  Scotch  must  be  the  best  judges 
of  their  owrn  method  of  cooking. 


MADE- DISHES. — BEEF-A-LA-MODE.  129 

“  Cut  any  piece  of  tender  lean  beef  into  slices,  beat 
them ;  brown  some  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  put  in  the  beef, 
with  some  salt,  pepper,  and  a  finely  minced  onion — half 
a  minced  apple  is  an  improvement ;  add  a  little  hot  water  ; 
cover  the  pan  closely,  and  let  them  stew  till  tender. 

“  Another  way.  Cut  some  very  thin  slices  of  beef; 
rub  with  butter  the  bottom  of  an  iron  steivpan  that  has  a 
cover  to  fit  quite  closely;  put  in  the  meat,  some  pepper,  a 
little  salt,  a  large  onion,  and  an  apple  minced  small. 
Cover  the  stewpan  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  meat  is  very 
tender.” 

BEEF  SCOLLOPS  are  also  dressed  in  many  other 
ways  ;  one  of  the  simplest  and,  we  believe,  the  best  is  the 
following.  Take  any  piece  of  beef  that  is  tender,  some 
choose  the  rump,  others  the  fillet  from  the  under  part  of  it, 
and  cut  it  into  small  thin  slices,  and  fry  them  till  they 
are  three  parts  done  ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  slices 
of  pickled  cucumbers,  small  mushrooms  stewed,  blanched 
oysters,  and  some  good  gravy  properly  seasoned.  Let  them 
stew  till  they  are  tender.  Some  will  add  a  few  capers,  a 
bit  of  pickled  walnut  and  some  onion  chopped  fine.  Your 
garnish  may  be  lemon. 

BEEF  A-LA-MODE  is  also  prepared  in  various  ways  ; 
the  following  are,  we  think,  the  best :  cut  any  beef  that  is 
tender  into  pieces  of  about  four  ounces  each  ;  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bruised  cloves,  to 
which  add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  water  suffi¬ 
cient  to  cover  the  whole  ;  (some  will  add  wine  and  even 
porter  or  ale  ;  but  they  are  quite  unnecessary.)  Stew  them 
in  a  very  gentle  heat  for  three  hours  or  more.  The  gravy 
should  be  strained,  and  the  fat,  if  any,  taken  off  it.  Serve 
the  beef  up  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it. 

Note. — Some  will  employ  veal  or  other  broth  instead  of 
water ;  and  some  will  add  to  the  stew,  carrots,  onions, 
sweet  herbs,  and  lemon  peel,  of  course  broth  will  make  the 
dish  richer.  v 

Another  way.  Take  a  small  buttock  of  beef,  and  cut  it 
into  pieces  of  four  ounces  or  more  each  ;  some  will  have 
them  a  pound  weight,  but  this  is  too  large  and  will  require 
a  long  time  indeed  to  stew.  Lard  the  pieces  with  bacon, 
fry  them  brown,  and  then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 

G  3 


130  MADE-DISHES. —  BEEF-A-LA-DADB, 


about  two  quarts  of  broth,  some  sweetherbs,  an  onion,  mace, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Let  them  stew  till  the  meat  is  tender, 
which  lay  in  the  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  strained  and 
freed  from  the  fat  over  it. 

Note. — Some  will  add,  to  flavour  these  stews,  bay  leaves , 
all-spice,  and  plenty  of  ground  black  pepper,  on  which  last 
it  would  appear  that  a  good  deal  of  the  flavour  of  the 
a-la-mode  beef  of  the  cooks’  shops  of  London  depends. 
The  reader  will  not  forget  that  bay -leaves  are  poisonous. 

A-LA-MODE  VEAL  may  be  prepared  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  above  directed  for  beef. 

BEEF  A-LA-DAUB  is  another  of  those  dishes  which 
has  been  often  and  long  ago  described  in  our  cookery 
books ;  we  believe  that  few  economical  persons  will  ever 
give  themselves  the  trouble  to  prepare  it ;  but  as  we  sup¬ 
pose  that  the  method  of  doing  so  will  be  expected  in  our 
work,  we  here  give  it  in  as  concise  a  form  as  we  possibly 
can. 

Cut  the  bone  from  a  rump  of  beef ;  (some  will  take,  in¬ 
stead,  a  part  of  the  leg  of  mutton  piece  or  the  mouse 
buttock,)  cut  also  some  fat  slices  of  bacon  as  long  as  the  beef 
is  thick  and  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square  ;  take  a  little 
mace,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  small  nutmeg  grated  ;  chop  a  hand¬ 
ful  of  parsley  and  sweetherbs  fine,  to  which  add  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  ;  roll  the  bacon  in  this  seasoning,  thrust  it  through 
the  beef  with  a  larding  pin  and  stew  it  in  good  gravy  suffi¬ 
cient  to  cover  it,  with  a  little  garlic  chopped  fine,  fresh 
mushrooms,  two  large  onions  and  a  carrot,  for  six  hours. 
Take  it  out,  strain  the  gravy,  antTTake  the  fat  off  it;  put 
the  meat  and  the  grav}T  again  into  the  pan,  and  add  two 
glasses  of  wine  to  it.  If  it  should  not  be  found  sufficiently 
seasoned,  more  pepper  and  salt  (and  indeed  other  condi¬ 
ments  which  you  may  choose)  can  now  be  added ;  stew 
half  an  hour  more,  adding,  towards  the  end  of  that  period, 
some  artichoke  bottoms,  truffles,  morels,  some  oysters,  and 
a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  or  rather  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Serve 
it  up  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 

Note. — Some  will  put  stewed  cabbage,  cauliflower,  and 
other  similar  vegetables  into  the  sauce ;  indeed,  there  is  no 
end  to  fancies  of  this  kind ;  we  wonder  that  celery  is  not 
also  recommended. 


MADE-DISHES.  —  BEEF  OLIVES.  131 

BEEF  TREMBLANT.  This  is  another  of  those  dishes 
long  known  and  described.  It  is  not  compatible  with  our 
design  to  comment  upon  every  term  employed  in  cookery  ; 

■  that  would  be  an  endless  task  ;  but  we  may  here,  once  for 
all,  observe  that  many  writers  on  our  art  have  been  ex¬ 
tremely  careless  in  regard  to  the  orthography  of  its  terms. 
Thus,  we  find  this  dish  has  been  called  beef  tremblonque 
and  beef  tremblent ;  we  have  given  the  proper  French 
orthography ;  but  why  not  call  it  at  once  trembling  or 
shaking  beef  ?  Oh,  that  is  so  vulgar  !  Change  the  word 
and  how  fine  it  becomes  ! 

The  following  is  found  in  substance  in  most  of  our 
cookery  books  from  Mrs.  Glasse  downwards  to  those  of 
I  the  present  century. 

Take  a  brisket  of  beef  and  tie  up  the  fat  end  tightly ; 
boil  it  in  water  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  handful  of  allspice, 
to  which  add  two  onions,  two  turnips,  and  a  carrot,  gently, 
for  six  hours ;  in  the  mean  time  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  to  which  add  two  spoonsful  of  flour,  and  stir  till 
the  mixture  is  smooth;  put  to  it  a  quart  of  gravy,  a  spoon¬ 
ful  of  catchup,  two  glasses  of  wine,  and  some  carrots  and 
turnips,  cut  as  for  a  haricot ;  stew  all  gently  till  the  roots 

!are  tender ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Skim  all  the  fat 
clean  off,  put  the  beef  into  the  dish  and  pour  the  gravy, 
thus  made,  over  it.  You  may  garnish  with  pickle  of  any 
sort.  Of  course  you  will  serve  it  up  with  proper  vege¬ 
tables,  such  as  greens,  carrots,  or  potatoes,  or  all  of  them. 

Note.  —  Some  will  make  a  gravy  instead  of  the  above, 
with  chopped  parsley,  an  onion,  pickled  cucumbers,  a 
walnut  and  capers  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  pepper  and  salt,  boiling  the  whole  for  ten  or 
j  more  minutes. 

BEEF  A-LA-ROYAL  is  a  brisket  of  beef  boned  and 
treated  in  a  similar  manner  as  mentioned  for  bombarded 
veal ;  wdien  stuffed  a  pint  of  hot  wine  is  poured  on  it ;  it 
is  then  floured  and  baked  for  three  hours. 

BEEF  OLIVES  are  made  in  various  ways.  The  best 
is,  we  believe,  the  following: — cut  some  thin  steaks  of 
beef  of  what  dimensions  you  please,  lay  over  them  veal 
stuffing,  to  which  some  add  a  little  finely  chopped  shalot  ; 
roll  them  up  and  tie  them  with  thread  ;  fry  them  in  sweet 


132 


MADE-DISHES.  — BEEF  BOUILLI. 


dripping  till  they  are  brown  ;  then  stew  them  in  good 
gravy  (to  which  some  add  a  glass  of  wine)  and  a  little 
cayenne  for  about  an  hour,  depending,  of  course,  upon 
their  number  and  size.  You  may  add  to  the  gravy  mush¬ 
room  catchup,  garnish  with  pickles. 

Note. — Some  direct  beef  olives  to  be  made  with  slices  of 
bacon  rolled  up  with  the  beef ;  others  to  stew  them  only. 
Cold  beef,  if  underdone,  may  be  also  made  into  olives  in  the 
same  way.  If  you  choose  the  steaks  large  the  olives  may, 
perhaps,  require  a  skewer  instead  of  thread.  Some  will 
thicken  the  gravy  with  butter  and  flour,  this  we  do  not 
advise. 

BEEF  BOUILLI  maybe  made  with  any  pieces  of  beef ; 
the  brisket,  the  rump,  a  leg,  or  a  shin,  or  as  much  of  any 
larger  joint  as  you  think  proper  to  employ.  The  chief  thing 
to  be  attended  to  in  preparing  this  dish  is  that  it  be  boiled 
gently  till  it  is  quite  tender',  if  it  be  of  many  pounds 
weight  it  will  demand  several  hours  in  its  preparation.  The 
beef  should  be  put  into  the  water,  with  some  turnips, 
carrots,  and  celery,  all  cut  into  pieces  sufficient  to  cover 
the  whole  ;  if  during  the  boiling’  the  water  decreases  con¬ 
siderably,  more  must  be  from  time  to  time  added  to  it  in 
a  boiling  state.  To  the  beef  some  will  add  mutton  chops 
to  make  the  soup  richer ;  others  recommend  veal  or  other 
cold  meat,  as  well  as  the  heads,  &c.  of  poultry  and  game. 
It  may  be  served  up  together  with  the  soup  ;  but  most  will 
perhaps  prefer  the  beef  in  one  dish  and  the  soup  in  a  tureen  ; 
if  there  be  much  fat  on  it,  that  ought  to  be  taken  off ;  the 
soup  may  be  seasoned  with  what  you  please ;  celery  seeds 
will  impart  an  agreeable  flavour  ;  pepper  and  cayenne  may 
also  be  added  to  it,  and  at  pleasure,  fried  or  toasted 
bread. 

Affile.— This  is  not  only  an  economical  but  a  very  whole¬ 
some  dish.  We  do  not  recommend  many  condiments  ; 
some  will  possibly  be  pleased  with  leeks,  others  onions 
stuck  with  cloves,  and  parsley. 

PORTUGAL  BEEF  is  the  meat  of  a  rump  of  beef 
cut  in  two,  the  thin  part  fried  brown  in  butter,  the  thick 
end  is  stuffed  with  suet,  boiled  chestnuts,  an  anchovy,  an 
onion,  and  pepper,  and  then  stewed  in  good  broth  till 
tender;  lay  the  stewed  part  in  the  dish  and  the  fried  part 


MADE-DISHES. — BEEF  FORCED.  133 

cut  in  two  on  each  side  of  it.  Strain  the  gravy,  to  tvhich 
add  chopped  gherkins  and  boiled  chestnuts.  Thicken  with 
burnt  butter  and  boil  it  up  ;  season  with  salt  and  garnish 
with  lemon  — a  precious  mess ! 

A  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  EN  EPIGRAM  is  dressed 
in  a  similar  manner  to  that  described  under  loin  of  veal 
en  epigram,  which  see,  with  a  little  difference  in  the  stuf¬ 
fing  such  as  the  addition  of  onions  ;  and  instead  of  mincing, 
the  beef  is  cut  into  small  pieces  only,  and  made  hot  in  a 
gravy  with  the  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little  catchup,  some 
small  pickled  cucumbers,  to  which  are  added  the  gravy 
which  comes  from  the  beef,  and  a  little  butter  and  flour. 
This  mixture  is  put  in  the  place  whence  the  meat  was  cut 
out,  and  the  skin  drawn  over  it.  Garnish  with  lemon 
and  pickles. 

A  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  FORCED  maybe  treated  in 
the  same  manner  as  a  loin  of  veal,  page  124  ;  but  to  the 
stuffing  should  be  added  minced  onions,  or  shalots,  the 
suet  should  also  be  in  larger  quantity.  Most  cooks  like 
to  mix  with  the  stuffing  a  glass  of  red  wine ;  the  gravy  is 
also  usually  made  with  some  red  wine  and  the  gravy  of 
the  meat. 

A  RUMP  OF  BEEF  FORCED  is  also  dressed  in  a 
similar  manner. 

A  ROUND  OF  BEEF  FORCED  is  usually  laid  in 
a  pickle,  composed  of  common  salt,  saltpetre,  to  which 
some  will  add  bay  salt,*  and  some  sugar,  for  a  week;  it  is 
then  washed,  &c.  and  holes  are  made  in  it  which  are  filled 
with  veal  stuffing,  which  see ;  it  is  then  baked  :  a  little 
water  is  usually  put  into  the  dish,  or  some  will  put  in  small 
beer  !  Or,  instead  of  baking,  it  may  be  stewed  over  a  slow 
fire  ;  or  it  may  be  boiled.  When  cold  it  is  a  handsome 
dish  for  a  cold  collation. 

Note. — The  usual  condiments  of  beef  may  be  served  up 
with  this  dish. 

*  The  cook  ought  to  know  that  there  is  no  difference  between 
bay  salt  and  common  salt,  except  in  the  size  of  its  crystals ;  and 
that,  therefore,  unless  it  be  desired  that  the  salt  should  lie  upon 
the  meat  and  dissolved  slowly,  as  bay  salt  generally  does,  its 
addition  in  salting  provisions  is  unnecessary :  this  observation 
is  of  importance  and  should  be  attended  to. 


134  MADE-DISHES. — BEEF-A-l’ECARLATE. 

BEEF  STEAKS  ROLLED  are  an  old-fashioned  dish ; 
but  among  gourmands  it  is  now  in  occasional  request.  It 
consists  in  strewing  over  the  steaks  a  force-meat  thus 
made  :  veal,  the  flesh  of  a  fowl,  cold  ham,  the  kidney  fat  of 
a  loin  of  veal,  a  sweetbread,  truffles,  morels,  parsley,  thyme 
and  lemon  peel,  all  chopped  fine,  to  which  are  added 
grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  cream ;  some  will 
pound  the  veal,  fowl,  cold  ham,  and  sweetbread  together 
first.  These  being  strewed  over  the  steaks  they  must  be 
rolled  firmly  up,  and  if  necessary  skewered  and  then 
fried  of  a  nice  brown.  Pour  now  all  the  fat  away  from 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  good  gravy, 
a  little  catchup,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a  few  mushrooms,  let 
them  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the  steaks,  cut  them 
in  two,  lay  the  cut  side  uppermost,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

BEEF  A-L’ECARLATE  may  be  made  with  almost 
any  piece,  but  a  brisket  or  rump  is  usually  employed.  As 
this  dish  derives  its  name  from  its  colour,  saltpetre  should 
always  be  employed  in  salting  it.  After  the  bone  is  re¬ 
moved,  salt  it,  therefore,  with  a  little  common  salt  and  a 
good  deal  of  saltpetre,  and  coarse  sugar,  to  which  you 
may  add  what  seasoning  you  like  ;  some  will  put  in  juniper 
berries,  garlic,  basil,  &c.  &c. ;  the  sugar  will,  we  believe, 
materially  improve  it  and,  therefore,  it  may  be  added  in 
pretty  large  quantity.  Rub  the  beef  well  with  these  in¬ 
gredients  and  let  it  lie  in  salt  for  about  a  fortnight  turning 
it  every  day.  It  may  be  then  boiled  with  carrots,  &e.  It 
is  best,  however,  as  a  cold  dish. 

Note. — It  has  been  generally  considered  that  the  addi¬ 
tion  of  saltpetre  to  salted  provisions  makes  them  hard, 
and  consequently  more  indigestible ;  we  believe  that  there 
is  some  truth  in  this  opinion,  although  we  are  not  prepared 
to  justify  it  by  any  substantial  reason  except  the  fact  of  its 
making  them  hard.  We  think  the  giving  of  a  red  colour 
to  animal  food  by  such  addition  is  not,  unless  beneficial  in 
others  respects,  a  thing  to  be  desired ;  yet,  who  likes  a 
pale  coloured  ham  ?  We  think  it  probable  too,  that  pork 
is  rendered  more  wholesome  by  being  salted  with  saltpetre ; 
its  being  generally  preferred  of  a  red  colour  would  seem  to 


MADE-DISHES.  135 

countenance  this  opinion,  but  we  think  that  beef  is  in¬ 
jured  by  it. 

A  TONGUE  AND  AN  UDDER  are  dressed  in  two 
or  more  ways  :  one  is  by  being  salted  for  a  few  days,  then 
boiled  till  tender  and  afterwards  roasted  together  and  served 
up  with  gravy  and  currant  jelly  sauces,  or  they  are  first 
parboiled,  and  the  udder  is  stuffed  with  veal  forcemeat ; 
they  are  roasted  and  served  up  with  good  gravy  and  sweet 
sauce. 

KILKENNY  TRIPE  is  an  Irish  dish.  Boil  some 
large  onions  all  cut  in  two  and  peeled  and  washed  in 
water  till  they  are  tender ;  then  put  in  the  tripe  which 
should  be  that  called  double,  and  cut  into  squares  ;  boil  it 
for  ten  or  more  minutes,  then  pour  off  all  the  liquor,  shake 
in  a  little  flour  to  which  add  butter,  some  salt,  and  mus¬ 
tard  ;  shake  all  over  the  fire  till  the  butter  is  melted  and 
serve  it  up.  You  may  garnish  with  lemon  or  barberries. 

HARICOT  OF  MUTTON.  This  dish,  as  well  as  other 
haricots,  admits  of  various  modes  of  preparation.  Thefollow- 
ing,  although  old  fashioned,  is  a  good  one :  take  some  chops 
from  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  of  a  loin  of  mutton  and  fry 
them  of  a  nice  brown  ;  then  stew  them  in  water  sufficient 
to  cover  them  ;  you  will  add,  to  constitute  your  hari- 
«ot,  carrots  and  turnips  cut  into  pieces,  as  w7ell  as  some 
bits  of  celery ;  some  will  add,  besides,  a  cabbage  lettuce 
fried,  and  some  heads  of  asparagus  ;  the  seasoning  may  be 
common  or  cayenne  pepper.  They  should  boil  altogether 
till  the  whole  is  tender.  Serve  it  up  without  any  thick¬ 
ening  is  the  gravy,  which  is  the  most  wdiolesome  way. 

Note. — Some  will  add  onions  to  this  dish ;  and  some 
will  put  in  the  mutton  chops  to  stew  without  previously 
frying  them. 

'A  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON  SURPRISED  con¬ 
sists  in  its  being  |»alf  boiled  and  then  stewed  with  two 
quarts  of  veal  gravy  or  good  broth,  four  ounces  of  rice,  a 
little  bruised  mace,  and  some  mushroom  powder.  When  it 
has  stewTed  an  hour,  or  rather  till  the  rice  is  quite  done, 
take  up  the  mutton,  and  keep  it  hot.  Add  to  the 
rice  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  some  butter  rolled  in  flour; 
mix  all  well  together  and  boil  a  few  nllhutes?  Lay  the 


136  MADE-DISHES. - MUTTON  WITH  A  IIAUT  GOUT. 

mutton  on  the  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it.  Garnish 
with  pickles,  lemon,  or  barberries. 

MUTTON  SCOLLOPS.  Cut  these  from  a  leg  of  mut¬ 
ton,  which  has  hung  some  days,  as  you  do  from  a  fillet  of 
veal ;  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  and  baste  them  with  butter 
as  they  broil ;  when  they  are  almost  broiled  enough  take 
them  off,  sprinkle  them  over  with  grated  nutmeg  and  salt, 
and  stew  them  in  gravy,  claret,  some  butter,  and  a  few 
minced  shalots,  for  fifteen  or  more  minutes  ;  then  add  an 
anchovy  or  two :  when  these  are  dissolved,  by  a  continu¬ 
ation  of  the  stewing,  your  scollops  may  be  served  up  wuth 
the  gravy  poured  over  them.  Garnish  with  pickles. 

Note,  a  similar  dish  to  this  is  sometimes  called  Oxford 
John. 

MUTTON  KEBOBBED,  or  CABOB,  consists  in  cut¬ 
ting  a  loin  into  four  or  more  pieces,  taking  the  skin  oft, 
rubbing  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  shaking  over 
them  some  crumbs  of  bread  and  parsley  chopped  fine,  and 
pepper  and  salt ;  the  pieces  are  then  put  again  together, 
roasted  on  a  spit  and  basted  with  butter  till  they  are  done. 
Serve  them  up  with  some  good  gravy  in  the  dish.  Garnish 
with  pickles. 

Note,  it  may  be  found  convenient  to  tie  the  pieces  to¬ 
gether  before  they  are  placed  on  the  spit.  You  may  roast 
the  kidney  or  not ;  but  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fat 
of  the  inside  of  the  loin  should  be  taken  away  before  it  is 
set  down ;  and  the  fat,  if  any  on  the  gravy  of  the  meat, 
should  be  also  removed  before  it  is  served  up,  or  has  the 
additional  gravy  poured  over  it.  Some  will  thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour  and  butter ;  but  this  we  do  not  advise : 
you  may  add,  if  you  please,  some  catchup  to  it. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON,  with  a  HAUT  GOUT,  may 
be  easily  obtained ;  it  consists  simply  in  hanging  it  up  for 
a  week  or  more  ;  some  will  hang  it  in  the  winter  for  three 
weeks  till  it  begins  to  enter  into  the  putrid  fermentation  : 
you  may  stuff  it  with  wdiat  condiments  you  please  and  then 
roast  it.  Serve  it  up  wfith  good  gravy  mixed  with  red 
wine.  Some  currant  jelly  will  be  also  a  pleasant  addition. 

Note,  some  will  choose  such  a  dish  as  this,  and  fancy  it 
as  good  as  venison ;  we  think  it  a  dangerous  abomination. 


MADE-DISHES. - HO  DG E- PODGES. 


137 


Some  too  will  have  it  cut  like  a  haunch  of  venison.  We 
have  not  the  least  objection  to  mutton  hanging  till  it  is 
tender ;  but  we  do  most  decidedly  object  to  such  a  haut 
gout ;  we  have  known  more  than  one  person  much  in¬ 
jured  by  eating  it. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON  is  sometimes  roasted  with  oys¬ 
ters  stuffed  into  every  part.  If  you  like  such  a  dish 
have  it !  or  if  you  do  not  choose  oysters  you  may  take 
cockles. 


MUTTON  RUMPS  and  KIDNEYS  are  a  troublesome 


dish,  but  some,  nevertheless,  desire  it.  Stew  some  rumps 
in  good  gravy  till  they  are  tender ;  take  them  out  and  rub 
them  with  yolk  of  egg;  sprinkle  over  them  crumb  of  bread, 
and  what  condiments  you  choose,  such  as  nutmeg,  pepper, 
parsley,  &c. ;  fry  them  of  a  light  brown.  The  kidneys 
being  larded  with  bacon  must  be  set  before  the  fire  in  a 
dutch-oven  while  the  rumps  are  stewing.  When  these  as 

I  well  as  the  rumps  are  done,  take  the  gravy  in  which  the 
rumps  were  stewed,  removing  from  it  the  fat,  and  put  to  it 
a  few  ounces  of  boiled  rice,  a  little  cream,  catchup,  or 

I  mushroom  powder,  (some  will  add  instead  of  these  an 
onion  stuck  with  cloves  and  a  bit  of  mace) ;  boil  these 
together  for  some  minutes.  Serve  the  rice  and  sauce 
up  with  the  rumps  on  it,  laying  a  kidney  between  every 
rump.  Garnish  with  some  coloured  pickles.  Some  will 
have  eggs  boiled  hard  and  cut  in  half :  a  goodly  bit  of  indi- 


gestion  ! 


DISGUISED  MUTTON  CHOPS  are  seasoned  with 


nutmeg,  salt,  &c.  rolled  each  in  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
well  buttered,  and  fried  in  lard  or  dripping  till  they  are  a 
nice  brown.  Serve  up  with  good  gravy.  Garnish  with 
horse-radish  and  fried  parsley. 


HODGE  PODGE  or  HOTCH  POTCH  dishes  may 


be  made  in  various  ways ;  they  generally  consist  of  more 
than  one  kind  of  meat  and  several  vegetables  ;  and  they 
are  most  commonly  stewed.  They  are  also  sometimes  pre¬ 
pared  economically  from  cold  meat,  bones,  ham,  &c.  An 
excellent  hodg’e-podge  may  be  made  with  a  brisket  of  veal 
cut  into  pieces,  fried  brown,  and  then  stewed  till  tender, 
with  green  peas,  a  lettuce,  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  parsley, 
an  onion,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  bit  of  mace ;  instead  of  let- 


138  MADE-DISHSES. —  LEG  OF  LAMB  FORCED. 


tuce  you  may  put  the  heart  of  a  savoy  cabbage,  a  cauli¬ 
flower,  or  some  tender  cabbage  sprouts.  This  is  not  only, 
a  good  but  an  economical  dish. 

Note. — You  may  avoid  the  frying  of  the  veal  if  you 
please,  but  the  dish  will  not  be  so  savoury. 

A  hodge-podge  may  be  also  made  with  mutton  and  beef, 
&c. ;  another  of  ox-tails  and  pickled  pork,  &c.  •,  another 
with  veal  and  mutton,  &c. ;  another  with  beef  or  ham 
bones  and  mutton  chops,  stewed  with  dry  peas,  celery,  and 
onions ;  or  with  beef,  veal,  and  mutton,  rice  or  Scotch 
barley,  &c. 

Note. — In  order  that  these  dishes  may  be  the  most  whole¬ 
some,  avoid  as  much  as  possible  the  addition  of  flour  to 
them,  particularly  as  thickening  for  the  gravy :  if  they  re¬ 
quire  being  thickened,  which  we  cannot  anticipate,  pure 
starch  should  be  employed  in  preference  to  flour. 

THE  UMBLES  OF  DEER  are  thus  dressed:  season 
the  kidney  and  the  fat  of  the  heart  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg ;  fry  them  till  they  are  brown,  and  then  stew  them 
in  good  gravy  till  they  are  tender :  squeeze  in  a  little 
lemon-juice.  Stuff  the  skirts  with  a  forcemeat  consisting 
of  the  fat  of  the  venison,  fat  bacon,  grated  bread,  pepper, 
mace,  sage,  an  onion  chopped  very  fine,  and  mixed  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  strew  over  them  some  chopped  thyme 
and  lemon-peel,  then  tie  them  to  a  spit  and  roast  them. 
When  they  are  done  lay  the  skirts  in  the  middle  of  the  dish 
and  the  fried  kidney,  &c.  around  it.  . 

A  LEG  OF  LAMB  FORCED.  Slit  the  hack  part  of 
a  leg  of  lamb  and  take  out  the  meat  leaving  the  skin  on, 
taking  care  that  you  do  not  deface  the  other  side ; 
drop  the  meat  taken  out  with  marrow,  beef  suet,  a  few 
oysters,  an  anchovy,  an  onion,  some  sweet  herbs,  lemon  - 
peel,  and  grated  nutmeg,  to  which  some  will  add  crumb  of 
bread ;  beat  the  whole  in  a  mortar,  stuff  the  leg-  with  it, 
and  then  sew  it  up.  Rub  the  leg  all  over  with  the  yolk 
of  eggs,  spit,  flour  it,  and  roast  it,  basting  with  butte]1 ; 
an  hour,  or  a  little  more,  will  be  sufficient  for  it.  While 
the  leg  is  roasting  cut  a  loin  of  lamb  into  steaks,  season 
them  with  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  and  such  Other  con¬ 
diments  as  you  may  choose,  taking  care  that  they  are  all 
finely  minced,  and  fry  them  in  butter  a  nice  brown.  Serve 


MADE-DISHES. —  LAMB  CHOPS,  HAGGIS.  139 

\  up  the  roasted  leg  with  half  a  pint  or  more  of  good  gravy, 
and  lay  the  fried  steaks  around  it.  Garnish  with  lemon. 

Note. — Some  will  make  a  thick  sauce  with  a  strong 
i  gravy,  in  which  spice  has  been  boiled,  and  some  oysters 
with  their  liquor,  mushrooms,  two  glasses  of  white  wine, 
some  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  these 
being  mixed  and  boiled  up  are  poured  over  the  whole  dish : 
but  we  being  no  friends  to  such  compounds,  cannot  recom¬ 
mend  them.  The  quantity  of  beef-suet  and  marrow  should 
together  be  about  one-fourth  of  the  weight  of  the  meat 
which  is  cut  out ;  the  marrow  may  be  omitted — there  is 
no  necessity  for  it. 

LAMB’S  BITS.  The  stones  being  skinned  and  split, 
laid  on  a  dry  cloth,  with  the  sweatbread  and  liver,  and  well 
floured,  must  be  fried  till  they  are  a  light  brown.  Lay  the 
bits  in  your  dish,  and  put  plenty  of  fried  parsley  in  lumps 
over  them  :  pour  round  them  melted  butter. 

LAMB’S  CHOPS  EN  CASSEROLE  consist  in  their 
being  dipped  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  strewed  with  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  some  spice,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and 
then  fried  a  light  brown.  Serve  them  up  round  in  your 
dish  with  a  hole  in  the  middle,  into  which  put  a  sauce 
made  rvith  sweet  herbs,  and  parsley  chopped  fine  and 
stewed  in  a  little  thick  gravy.  Your  garnish  may  be  fried 
parsley. 

OTHER  LAMB  CHOPS.  See  Tomato  Chops , 
page  123. 

A  HAGGIS  consists  of  the  heart,  lights,  and  liver  of  a 
sheep,  minced  with  beef-suet,  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll 
soaked  in  cream  and  spices,  with  stoned  raisins,  some 
sweet  wine,  and  flour,  to  make  the  whole  of  a  proper  con¬ 
sistence  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  some  sheeps’  chitter¬ 
lings  ;  these  are  to  be  put  into  a  well-cleaned  sheep’s  bag, 
and  boiled  for  about  three  hours. 

Note,  the  quantities  of  all  the  ingredients  must  be  left 
to  your  own  discretion. 

A  SCOTCH  HAGGIS  is  more  simple ;  it  consists  in  par¬ 
boiling  the  heart  and  lights  of  a  sheep,  mincing  them  very 
small,  adding  one  pound  of  minced  suet,  two  or  three  large 
onions,  minced,  two  small  handfuls  of  oatmeal ;  season  highly 

IK 


140 


MADE-DISHES. —  CER  VELAS. 


with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Boil  it 
in  a  sheep’s  bag  for  three  hours.  See  Mrs.  Dalyairii  s 
Cookery. 

CERVELAS  FUMES,  or,  as  they  are  commonly  called 
in  this  country,  Servelas  or  Saveloys,  are  well  known 
articles  in  the  shops  of  London.  We  are  indebted  for  the 
following-  directions  to  the  Cuisinier  Royal  of  MM.  Viard 
and  Fouhet.*  We  might  have  given  it,  being  a  trans¬ 
lation  from  a  foreign  work,  as  an  original;  but  candour 
compels  us  to  this  course — suum  cuiqae.  We  give  a  literal 
version. 

According  to  the  quantity  of  the  Cervelas  which  you 
wish  to  make,  mince  some  flesh  of  fresh  pork  mixed  with 
a  fourth  of  its  weight  of  bacon  ;  season  it  with  salt, 
pepper,  spices,  [nutmeg  is  added  in  the  original,]  aniseed, 
and  coriander  seed ;  put  these  into  guts  prepared  for  the 
purpose  according  to  the  size  which  you  desire  to  give  your 
cervelas  ;  tie  them  at  both  ends,  and  hang  them  up  in  the 
chimney,  so  that  they  may  be  smoked  ;  alter  three  days, 
boil  them  in  water  for  three  hours  with  a  little  salt,  a  clove 
of  garlic,  some  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  basil,  and  a  bunch  of 
parsley  :  let  them  cool. 

Note. — Cervelas  are  also  made  in  other  ways ;  one  called 
Cervelas  a  V Italienne,  consists  in  mixing  with  the  pork 
and  bacon,  besides  the  seasoning,  equal  parts  of  white  wine 
and  the  blood  of  the  pig  yet  hot ;  the  cervelas  when  made 
are  also  ordered  to  be  boiled  first  and  smoked  afterwards ; 
and  this  we  think  is  the  preferable  method  for  all. 

Note  also  that  the  time  of  boiling  them  must  depend 
upon  the  size  of  the  guts ;  if  large  they  will  require  three, 
perhaps  even  more,  hours ;  if  small,  two  or  even  less  than 
this. 

Sometimes,  too,  other  meat  is  put  with  the  pork,  as  veal, 
the  flesh  of  hare  or  rabbit;  and  occasionally  pork,  with  a 
fair  portion  of  fat  and  the  seasoning,  is  only  employed ; 
onions  are  also  sometimes  added  to  it ;  it  is  necessary, 
that  all  the  condiments  should  be  minced  or  powdered 
fine.  The  bay  leaves  in  them  we  do  not  admire. 

*  Thirteenth  edit.  Paris,  1828,  page  20G.  See  also  Manuel  de 
Cuisinier,  par  Cardelli.  Paris,  1827,  page  148. 


MADE-DISHES.  —  BEEF  BRAINS.  141 

Cervelas  are  usually  eaten  cold,  being  cut  into  slices, 
with  mustard,  &c.  They  are  an  agreeable  relish. 

It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  smoke  of  wood 
1  for  cervelas  is  the  best. 

A  PIG  BARBECUED  is  prepared  the  same  as  for 
roasting;  but  it  is  frequently  chosen  older:  some  indeed 
will  have  it  even  ten  or  twelve  weeks  old.  It  is  stuffed 
with  liver,  sage  leaves,  a  few  anchovies,  and  some  crumb 
of  bread,  all  chopped  fine,  to  which  are  added  four  ounces 
of  butter,  some  cayenne  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  good 
wine.  It  is  then  set  down  to  roast  at  a  good  distance  from 
a  brisk  fire,  singed,  and  well  basted  with  two  or  more 
bottles  of  wine,  placed  in  the  dripping-pan  for  the  purpose : 
when  about  half  roasted  put  two  penny  rolls  under  the  pig ; 
and  if  there  is  not  wine  enough  put  in  more  :  when  it  is 
nearly  done  take  the  rolls  and  sauce  out  of  the  pan,  put 
to  the  sauce  half  a  lemon,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  an 
anchovy,  chopped  small ;  boil  for  five  minutes.  When  the 
pig  has  roasted,  according  to  its  size,  three,  four,  or  more 
hours,  and  is  done,  take  it  up,  put  into  its  mouth  an  orange, 
a  lemon,  or  an  apple,  and  a  roll  on  each  side.  Skim  the 
fat  oft  your  sauce,  which  strain  hot  over  the  pig.  Garnish 
with  lemon  and  barberries. 

Note. — You  may  bake  the  pig  instead  of  roasting  it; 
but  it  ought  to  be,  nevertheless,  well  basted  with  the  wine, 
;  which  may  be  port  or  madeira  as  you  choose. 

We  might  here  give  other  methods  of  dressing  a  pig, 
such  as  a  Pig  au  Pcre  Duillet,  a  favourite  dish,  we  pre¬ 
sume,  of  some  monk  :  it  consists  of  stewing  it,  when  cut 
1  into  quarters,  with  bacon,  in  broth,  wane,  and  condiments, 
to  which  are  added  s'weetbread,  the  yolk  of  eggs,  &c. 
But  this  dish,  as  well  as  a  Pig  en  Matelote,  which  is  a 
similar  dish,  -with  the  addition  of  eels,  craw-fish,  and  con¬ 
diments,  does  not  seem  to  require  a  particular  description. 

BEEF  BRAINS  have  been  lately  presented  to  the 
cooks  of  this  country,  as  an  especial  object  of  their  atten¬ 
tion.  They  are  dressed  in  various  ways  in  France,  and 
are  considered  a  useful  and  agreeable  dish.  We  find  in 
the  French  books,  a  great  variety  of  directions  for  prepa- 
ing  them;  such  as  Cervelles  f rites,  Cervelles  en  Matelote, 


142  MADE-DISHES. - BEEF  BRAINS  EN  MARINADE. 

Cervelles  d  la  poulette,  Cervelles  au  Beurre  noir*  Cer- 
velles  d  la  Bourgeoise,  Cervelles  d  la  sauce  piquante, 
Cervelles  en  marinade ,  fyc.  It  is  not  necessary  that  we 
should  detail  all  these ;  two,  however,  as  being-  useful,  we 
here  give ;  the  first  is,  indeed,  not  only  a  dish,  but  contains 
proper  directions  for  preparing  the  brains  for  being  dressed 
in  any  way.  See  Calf's  Brains,  page  4. 

%  Plunge  the  brains  into  lukewarm  water,  in  order  to 
separate  the  blood  and  remove  the  skin  which  covers  them  ; 
then  put  them  for  some  time  into  a  fresh  quantity  of  luke¬ 
warm  water ;  next  plunge  them  into  boiling  water  to  blanche 
them ;  after  some  minutes  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
into  fresh  water,  and  boil  them  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
some  salt,  an  onion  cut  in  pieces,  parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf, 
till  they  are  done.  They  may  be  served  up  with  parsley 
and  butter. 

BEEF  BRAINS  EN  MARINADE.  After  having 
cleansed  and  scalded  your  brains,  as  in  the  preceding  direc¬ 
tion,  boil  them  first  in  a  marinade,  [see  Marinade ,  in  our 
Chapter  on  Sauces]  ;  then  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry  them 
with  butter  till  they  become  a  nice  colour,  taking  care  that 
the  butter  is  not  made  too  hot.  They  should  be  served  up 
cut  into  moderate  pieces,  and  surrounded  with  fried  parsley. 
Your  sauce  may  be  parsley  and  butter.*' 

Note. — These  are  sometimes  called  simply  Beef  Brains 
fried. 


Thus,  after  much  labour,  abundance  of  pains. 
We  conclude  this  sub-section  with  service  of  brains ; 
Our  own  have  been  tasked  to  present  unto  you 
Of  many  made-dishes  a  sort  of  review — 

The  good  pray  select,  and  the  bad  pray  eschew. 
Proceed  we  more  labour  to  lay  at  your  feet. 

And  poultry,  yame,  fish,  shall  the  section  complete. 


*  Black  butter.  See  our  Chapter  on  Sauce, 
t  See  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  par  Cardelli,  p.  93. 


MADE  DISHES. - A  GOOSE- A-LA-MODE.  143 


Of  Poultry,  Game,  or  Fish,  you  make 
A  wholesome  dish  whichever  you  take  ; 

Some  condiments  you  may  combine  ; 

And  let  Discretion  hand  you  wine  ; 

But  Poultry,  Game,  or  Flesh,  or  Fish 
Apart,  howe’er  a  sumptuous  dish. 

Are  rarely  join’d,  by  cooking  care. 

Our  approbation  once  to  share  : 

Nature  hath  taste  so  nicely  made. 

You  cannot  thus  her  reign  invade ; 

You  may,  indeed,  produce  surprise. 

O’er  which  calm  judgement  sits  and  sighs  ; 

But  such  a  dish,  and  season’d  high. 

Will  be  like  fam’d  tantatling-pie.* 

A  GOOSE  may  be  made  into  a  dish  in  a  variety  of 
ways ;  we  have  already  described  several  methods  of  dress¬ 
ing  it ;  the  following  will  be  found,  at  once,  a  nutritious  and 
a  savoury  dish.  Your  g’oose  being  properly  prepared,  as 
well  as  the  stuffing,  as  directed  under  roasting,  take  a  pound 
of  good  rump-steaks  or  any  other  beef  that  is  tender,  cut  it 
into  small  pieces,  or  mince  it  if  you  please,  and  then  mix  it 
with  the  prepared  stuffing,  and  put  the  whole  into  the  belly 
of  your  goose,  and  roast  it  till  it  is  about  three  parts  done; 
then  take  it  up  and  carve  it  into  pieces,  as  if  for  eating, 
and  stew  it  in  good  gravy  (with  all  the  stuffing)  sufficient  % 
to  cover  it  for  an  hour  or  thereabouts.  Serve  it  up  with 
the  gravy,  &c.  poured  over  it.  Some  may  choose 
to  add  to  the  stew  wine  and  other  condiments  ;  we  see  no 
necessity  for  these  additions ;  on  the  contrary,  if  care  be 
taken  to  remove  all  the  apparent  fat  in  the  gravy,  this 
mode  of  dressing  a  goose  will  render  it  palatable  to  even 
delicate  stomachs. 

A  GOOSE  A-LA-MODE  consists  in  its  being  first 
skinned  and  boned,  and  having  its  fat  taken  off ;  a  dried 
tongue,  previously  boiled  and  peeled,  is  also  to  be  got 
ready ;  a  fowl  is  also  to  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  the 
goose,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bruised  mace,  and 
rolled  round  the  tongue ;  the  goose  is  seasoned  in  the  same 

*  A  pie  much  talked  of  in  the  west  of  England,  but  which  we 
have  never  seen  ;  it  is  said  to  be  composed  of  all  possible  varieties 
of  offal  from  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl ;  we  hear,  in  the  more  polished 
circles  of  society,  of  tantatling -tarts,  we  presume  a  similar  imagi¬ 
native  composition.  The  compilers  of  our  dictionaries  will,  we 
hope,  be  much  obliged  to  us  for  this  information. 


144  MADE-DISHES. —  A  MARINADED  GOOSE. 

manner ;  and  both  the  tongue  and  the  fowl  are  laid  on  the 
goose,  with  some  slices  of  ham  between  them;  (some  lay 
also  beef  marrow  between  the  tongue  and  the  fowl  as  well 
as  between  the  fowl  and  the  goose,  but  this  is  an  unneces¬ 
sary  extravagance).  The  whole  is  then  put  into  a  stewpan, 
with  the  bones  of  the  goose  and  the  fowl,  an  onion,  a  bun¬ 
dle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  as  much  beef  gravy  as  will  cover 
them,  and  stewed  for  an  hour  or  more  ;  when  the  goose  must 
be  taken  out,  all  the  fat  skimmed  off,  the  gravy  strained,  is 
again  put  to  the  goose,  which  is  again  stewed  for  half  an 
hour  or  more,  with  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a  little  catchup,  a 
veal  sweetbread  cut  small,  some  truffles,  morels,  and  mush¬ 
rooms.  It  is  served  up  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it. 
Garnish  with  lemon. 

A  MARINADED  GOOSE  consists  in  its  being  boned 
and  then  stuffed  with  the  usual  goose  stuffing,  two  or  three 
very  acid  apples,  some  beef  marrow,  the  crumb  of  a  penny 
loaf,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  lemon  peel,  all  chopped 
fine,  and  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  a 
glass  of  wine;  it  is  then  first  fried  of  a  light  brown,  and 
afterwards  stewed  in  two  quarts  of  good  gravy  for  two 
t  hours  ;  the  goose  is  taken  out,  the  fat  taken  off  the  gravy, 
to  which  are  added  some  lemon  pickle,  a  little  browning, 
some  red  wine,  an  anchovy  chopped,  bruised  mace,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Serve  up  the  goose  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it. 

Note. — Some  will  thicken  the  gravy  wdth  butter  and 
flour,  a  useless  practice. 

The  goose  has  been  a  favourite  dish  for  ages  in  this 
country :  we  conclude  our  descriptions  with  the  following 
epicurean 

SONNET  TO  A  GOOSE. 

If  thou  didst  feed  on  western  plains  of  yore. 

Or  waddle  wide  with  flat  and  flabby  feet 
Over  some  Cambrian  mountain’s  plashy  moor. 

Or  find  in  farmer’s  yard  a  safe  retreat 
From  gipsey  thieves  and  foxes  sly  and  fleet ; 

If  thy  grey  quills,  by  lawyer  guided,  trace 
Deeds  big  with  ruin  to  some  wretched  race. 

Or  love-sick  poet’s  sonnet,  sad  and  sweet. 

Wailing  the  rigour  of  some  lady  fair  ; 

Or  of  the  drudge  of  housemaid’s  daily  toil, 

Cobwebs  and  dust  thy  pinions  white  besoil ; 

Departed  Goose  !  I  neither  know  nor  care. 

Rut  this  1  know,  that  thou  w'ert  very  fine. 

Season’d  with  sage  and  onions  and  port  wine. 

Anthology,  vol.  i.  1799. 


MADE-DISIIES. — TURKEY  IN  A  HURRY.  145 


A  TURKEY  admits  of  as  great  variety  of  ministration 
to  the  taste  of  a  gourmand  as  any  of  the  larger  kind  of  the 
poultry  tribe;  the  French  have  almost  innumerable  dishes 
into  which  the  turkey  enters.  They  have  Dindon  endaube. 
Galantine  de  dindon,  Dinde  d  la  Providence,  and  others 
which  we  cannot  name.  One, 

TURKEY  A-LA-DAUBE  consists  in  boning  it,  so  as 
not  to  spoil  its  appearance,  then  stuffing  it  with  chopped 
oysters,  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper,  salt,  shalots,  a  little 
thyme,  parsley,  and  butter,  and  boiling  it  in  water  in  a 
cloth  till  it  is  white,  but  not  too  much.  It  may  be  served 
with  oyster  sauce.  Or  it  may  be  stewed  in  a  gravy  made 
j  with  the  bones  and  some  veal  and  mutton,  to  which  some 
will  add  bacon,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  &c. ;  to  the 
gravy  are  sometimes  added  stewed  mushrooms,  stewed 
palates,  and  forcemeat  balls,  sweetbreads,  or  fried  oysters, 
|  slices  of  lemon,  &c. 

Note. — TheFrenchusuallyemployoW  turkeys  for  this  dish. 
\  A  TURKEY  IN  A  HURRY  being  trussed  with  the 
;  legs  inwards  and  flattened  as  much  as  possible,  is  put  into 
a  stewpan  with  melted  lard,  chopped  parsley,  shalots,  and 
1  mushrooms,  to  which  some  will  add  a  little  garlic,  and  after 
a  fewr  turns  over  the  fire,  and  the  addition  of  a  little  lemon- 
juice  to  keep  it  white,  it  is  put  into  another  stewpan,  with 
slices  of  veal,  a  slice  of  ham,  and  melted  lard,  and  the  con¬ 
diments  as  before,  with  pepper  and  salt;  it  is  also  covered 
with  slices  of  bacon,  and  set  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an 
hour  ;  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  little  broth  are  also  added  to 
j  complete  the  process.  Skim  and  strain  the  sauce,  to  which 
1  add  some  good  gravy.  The  turkey  is  served  up  with  the 
i  sauce  poured  over  it.  The  garnish  is  lemon. 

A  TURKEY  WITH  RAGOUT  is  stuffed  and  boiled  in 
the  usual  way,  and  then  served  up  with  a  ragout,  composed 
of  slices  of  throat-sweetbreads,  small  mushrooms  stewed, 
;ii  artichoke  bottoms,  egg  balls,  and  veal  gravy,  stewed  for  ten 
For  more  minutes,  to  which  are  added  three  eggs  and  some 
■cream,  which  are  simmered  for  five  minutes  more,  and  sea¬ 
soned  with  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

We  cannot  quit  the  turkey  without  calling  the  reader’s 
attention  to  a  jeu  d' esprit  supplied  to  us  by  that  amusing- 
work,  Time's  Telescope  for  1825.  It  is  entitled 

H 


146 


MADE-DISHES.  —  A  FOWL  FORCED. 


AN  ALDERMAN  IN  CHAINS. 

All  hail!  thou  monarch  of  the  mighty  board. 

Majestic  TllRKtiY  ! 

All  hail !  the  forcemeat  balls  with  which  thou’rt  stored  ! 

All  hail  !  the  sausage  fetters  steaming  o’er  thee! 

Hail  ye  inferior,  yet  delightful  dishes. 

O’er  which  in  trance  ecstatic  roves  my  eye  ! 

Ye  savoury  fowls,  ye  most  alluring  fishes. 

And  brandy  flashing  in  the  burnt  minc’d  pie ! 

Hail !  cod  and  oyster  sauce  !  quail partridge  !  bustard  ! 

Lobster  !  plum-pudding  !  apple-pie  !  and  custard  ! 

After  all,  we  believe  that  roasted  turkey  is  the  best  dish 
made  with  this  bird ;  and  to  which  the  lines  above  more 
immediately  apply. 

A  FOWL  A-LA-BRAISE  is  trussed  as  for  boiling,  but 
with  the  legs  in  the  body,  fat  bacon,  cut  in  thin  slices,  is 
laid  over  it ;  it  is  then  wrapped  in  a  veal  caul,  (some  will 
previously  wrap  it  in  beet-leaves,)  and  stewed  till  it  is 
tender  in  three  pints  of  water,  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine, 
some  sweet  herbs,  a  bit  or  two  of  mace,  and  half  a  lemon  ; 
the  fowl  is  then  taken  up,  all  the  fat  is  skimmed  off  from 
the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  boiled,  and,  after  being- 
strained,  to  it  is  added  a  pint  of  oysters  and  a  tea-cup  full 
of  thick  cream ;  simmer  this  mixture  for  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  up  the  fowl  with  the  bacon  (and  beet-leaves,  if  any) 
and  caul  on,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Garnish  with 
barberries  and  red  beet-root. 

Note. — Some  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter, 
but  it  is  not  at  all  necessary  :  you  may  add  what  condiments 
you  please. 

A  FOWL  FORCED  may  be  thus  dressed :  cut  it  down 
the  back  and  take  off  the  skin  whole ;  cut  the  flesh  from 
the  bones,  and  chop  it  with  half  a  pint  of  oysters  and  an 
ounce  of  beef  marrow;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  mix 
this  forcemeat  with  cream,  lay  it  on  the  bones,  draw  the 
skin  over,  and  sew  up  the  back.  Lay  now  large  thin  slices 
of  bacon  on  the  breast  of  the  fowl,  fix  them  on  with  pack- 
thread,  and  roast  it  for  an  hour  by  a  moderate  fire.  Serve 
it  up  with  a  good  brown  gravy  sauce  in  the  dish,  the  bacon 
being  removed.  You  may  garnish  with  pickles,  mush¬ 
rooms,  or  oysters. 

A  FOWL  MARINADED  is  another  of  those  compound 
dishes  which  might  be  sometimes  required,  but  for  which 


MADE-DISHES.  —  CHICKENS  A  LA  BRAISE.  147 

we  see  no  rational  use.  It  consists  in  raising-  the  skin 
from  the  breast-bone,  and  stuffing  between  the  skin  and  the 
flesh  the  following  forcemeat ;  a  veal  sweetbread,  a  few 
oysters,  mushrooms,  an  anchovy,  pepper,  nutmeg-,  lemon- 
peel,  and  a  little  thyme,  all  chopped  small,  and  mixed  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  put  some  oysters  in  the  body  of  the 
fowl,  paper  the  breast,  and  roast  it.  Make  good  gravy,  to 
which  you  may  add  mushrooms,  if  you  please.  Garnish 
with  lemon. 

Note. — You  may  be  quite  sure  that  many  a  dyspeptic 
stomach  will  reject  this  fishy  dish,  how  much  soever  some 
may  esteem  it.  If  you  desire  a  more  delicate  one,  omit  the 
oysters  and  anchovy ;  in  short,  use  veal  stuffing,  which  see 
page  128. 

CHICKENS  are  made  into  dishes  in  various  ways; 
some  are  so  essentially  bad,  that  we  do  not  think  it  proper 
even  to  name  them;  others,  again,  have  some  merit,  and  to 
these  we  proceed  to  direct  the  cook’s  attention:  but  simple 
boiling  or  roasting  is  unquestionably  the  best  for  chicken. 

CHICKENS  CHIRINGRATE,*  one  of  the  best  of 
dishes  made  with  chickens,  have  first  the  breast-bone  flat¬ 
tened  with  a  rolling  pin,  without  breaking  the  skin;  they 
are  then  dredged  with  flour  and  fried  a  light  brown  ;  the 
fat  is  drained  from  them,  and  they  are  stewed  with  some 
veal  and  gravy  beef  cut  into  thin  slices  and  laid  over  the 
chickens,  with  suitable  condiments,  in  a  quart  of  water  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the 
chickens,  keeping  them  hot;  strain  off  the  gravy,  boil  it 
till  it  is  rich,  and  then  add  to  it  two  spoonsful  of  red  wine 
and  a  few  mushrooms.  This  being-  done,  put  in  the  chick¬ 
ens  again  that  they  may  become  hot.  Serve  them  up  with 
the  gravy  poured  over  them.  Garnish  with  lemon  and 
some  slices  of  broiled  ham. 

CHICKENS  A-LA-BRAISE  may  be  dressed  as  di¬ 
rected  for  fowl,  page  146;  but  some  will  have  them  a  much 
more  compounded  dish.  It  consists  of  the  chicken,  bacon, 
beef,  veal  sweetbreads,  cocks’  combs,  an  ox-palate,  onion, 
and  many  other  condiments,  as  well  as  carrots,  artichoke 
bottoms,  and  asparagus  tops. 

*  Whence  this  epithet  arose  we  cannot  divine;  we  presume  it 
is  some  foreign  word  corrupted  in  assuming  an  English  dress. 

H  2 


148 


MADE-DISHES. — DUCKS,  PIGEONS. 

CHICKENS,  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE,  are  either 
boiled  or  braised  with  slices  of  bacon  over  them.  When 
done,  they  are  served  up  with  lemon  sauce  poured  over 
them. 

A  DUCK  may  be  treated  as  a  goose  in  page  143;  but 
some  will  quarter  it,  fry  it  in  butter  of  a  light  brown,  and 
then  stew  it  in  good  gravy,  to  which  some  also  add  wine. 
The  stuffing  may  be,  in  all  respects,  the  same  as  for  a  goose, 
not  omitting  the  beef.  It  must  be  served  up  with  the  sauce 
poured  over  it.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  barberries. 

Note. — This  last  method  is  called  by  some  cooks  Duck 
a-la-Mode. 

DUCKS  A-LA- BRAISE  are  simmered  with  slices  of 
bacon  or  ham,  and  slices  of  veal  or  beef,  turnips,  carrots, 
onion,  celery,  and  many  other  condiments,  over  a  gentle 
fire  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown  ;  some  broth  or  water  is 
then  added,  and  they  are  stewed  till  they  are  done.  The 
liciuor  from  the  ducks  is  made  into  a  sauce  with  parsley  and 
an  onion  chopped  fine,  some  anchovies,  capers,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  by  boiling  the  whole  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  then  it  is  poured  over  the  ducks. 

A  DUCK  A-LA-FRANCOISE  is  first  half  roasted 
and  then  stewed  in  a  rich  gravy  writh  roasted  chestnuts, 
thyme,  onions,  &c.  to  which  is  added  some  red  wine  ;  but 
we  can  scarcely  think  that  any  Englishman  will  choose 
such  a  dish. 

PIGEONS  A-LA-MINUTE.  Cut  your  pigeons  in 
half  and  fry  them  in  butter  ;  when  they  are  brown,  and 
about  half  done,  add  some  champignons,  shalots,  and 
parsley  minced.  Serve  them  up  with  a  little  good  gravy 
and  white  wine  mixed  together  and  poured  hot  over  them. 

PIGEONS  EN  MATELOTTE  are  fried  in  butter, 
with  bacon  cut  into  small  pieces ;  add  to  them  a  sauce 
composed  of  good  gravy  and  white  wine,  and  some  cham¬ 
pignons.* 

PIGEONS  EN  COMPOTE  must  be  trussed  as  if  for 
boiling;  but  the  craws  are  stuffed  with  the  following: — 
equal  parts  of  crumb  of  bread  and  scraped  bacon,  which  is 


*  For  this  and  the  preceding  we  are  indebted  to  the  Manuel  de 
Cuisinier  of  M.  Cardelli. 


MADE-DISHES.  —  PIGEONS. 


149 


usually  preferred  to  suet,  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  a  few 
shalots,  some  lemon  peel,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt, 
all  mixed  up  together  with  eggs.  The  pigeons  are,  be¬ 
sides,  larded  down  the  breast  and  then  fried  till  they  are 
brown,  and  afterwards  stewed  in  some  good  gravy  for  about 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  them  up  with  the  gravy 
strained  over  them,  and  lay  force-meat  balls  around  them. 

PIGEONS  A-LA-BRAISE.  Lay  at  the  bottom  of  a 
stewpan  some  slices  of  bacon,  veal,  and  onions,  upon 
which  place  some  pigeons  properly  trussed  and  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs ;  lay  upon  them  similar 
slices  of  veal  and  bacon,  and  stew  them  gently.  When 
they  are  done,  make  a  ragout  with  blanched  sweetbreads, 
truffles,  morels,  and  champignons,  and  some  good  gravy  ; 
stew  them  altogether  with  the  pigeons  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  or  more.  Put  the  pigeons  in  the  dish  and  pour  the 
ragout  over  them. 

Note. — Some  will  add,  besides  veal,  some  slices  of  beef; 
no  bad  addition. 

JUGGED  PIGEONS  may  be  easily  prepared,  and  in 
several  ways.  The  following  is,  perhaps,  one  of  the  best : 
season  your  pigeons  with  pepper,  salt,  and  spice,  and  put 
them  into  a  jug,  with  some  butter,  an  ounce  or  more  to  each 
pigeon,  stopped  'with  a  cloth  so  that  no  steam  can  get  out. 
Set  it  in  a  kettle  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour  and  a 
half.  \_Note. — This  process  is  called  a  water-bath,  to 
which  we  have  before  alluded.  See  page  94.]  When 
completed,  take  out  the  pigeons,  put  the  gravy  arising  from 
them  into  a  pan,  to  which  add  a  spoonful  of  wine,  some 
catchup,  a  slice  of  lemon,  half  an  anchovy  chopped  fine, 
'and  some  sweet  herbs.  Boil  a  little,  and  thicken  with 
butter  rolled  in  starch  or  flour.  Serve  the  pigeons  up  with 
i  the  gravy  strained  over  them.  You  may  garnish  with  red 
cabbage  and  parsley. 

PIGEONS  A-LA-MONARQUE.  Take  six  pigeons 
of  about  the  same  size,  and  not  more  than  seven  or  eight 
days  old,  after  cleansing  and  trussing  them,  melt,  or  rather 
make  luke-warm,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  very  fine 
butter,  to  which  add  the  juice  of  two  or  three  lemons,  and 
a  little  salt.  Put  the  pigeons  into  the  butter,  and  shake 
them  about  wfithout  putting  your  stewpan  over  the  fire,  in 


150  MADE-DISHES.  —  PARTRIDGES  A  LA  BRAISE. 

order  that  the  skin  may  not  be  broken.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  another  stewpan  with  slices  of  bacon,  and  lay  your 
pigeons  on  them  so  that  the  feet  may  be  in  the  centre ; 
pour  the  whole  of  your  butter  upon  the  pigeons,  and 
moisten  them  with  a  large  glass  of  white  wine,  a  spoonful 
of  good  gravy  ( consomme )  and  some  sweet  herbs  (bouquet 
assaisonee ).  Cover  your  pigeons  with  slices  of  bacon  and 
a  round  of  paper  ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving  them 
up  these  must,  however,  be  removed.  Let  the  dressing  be 
completed  with  a  little  fire  beneath  and  hot  ashes  upon  your 
stewpan.  When  done,  drain  them,  and  serve  them  up, 
and  in  a  silver  stew-dish  or  tureen,  with  a  ragout  ci-la- 
Toulouse.  Between  each  pigeon  put  a  blanched  cock’s 
comb  and  a  cray-fish ;  upon  every  pigeon  a  veal  sweet¬ 
bread,  with  a  row  of  cocks’  kidneys  around  it. 

Note. — This  is,  no  doubt,  a  fashionable  dish  in  France. 
Be  it  so  ;  we  do  not  envy  our  neighbours  their  culinary 
taste  in  this  instance.*  It  is,  in  our  judgment,  useless  as 
well  as  unnecessary. 

A  dish,  somewhat  similar  to  this,  is  one  long  known  in 
this  country  under  the  name  of  Pigeons  a-la-daube ;  but  it 
is  not  necessary  that  we  should  describe  it. 

PARTRIDGES  A- LA -BRAISE.  Take  four  par¬ 
tridges  and  truss  the  legs  into  the  bodies;  lard  them,  and 
season  with  bruised  mace,  pepper,  and  salt ;  lay  some  slices 
of  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  then  lay  on  them 
some  slices  of  beef,  and  then  slices  of  veal,  all  cut  thin,  to 
which  add  a  piece  of  carrot,  an  onion  cut  small,  some  sweet 
herbs,  and  whole  pepper.  Lay  in  the  birds  with  their  breasts 
downward ;  place  thin  slices  of  veal  and  beef  over  them,  and 
some  parsley  shred  fine.  Stew  them  for  eight  or  ten  minutes 
over  a  slow  fire,  then  give  the  pan  a  shake  and  pour  in  a 
pint  of  boiling  water ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  half  an 
hour  over  a  brisker  fire.  Take  out  the  birds  and  keep  them 
hot ;  pour  into  the  pan  a  pint  of  thin  gravy,  boil  it  till  the 
whole  is  reduced  about  one  half ;  strain  it  off,  and  take  off 
all  the  fat.  During  the  stewing  of  the  partridges,  take  a 
veal  sweetbread  cut  small,  some  truffles  and  morels,  cocks’ 
combs,  and  fowls’  livers,  and  stew  them  in  a  pint  of  good 


*  See  Cuisinier  Royal,  par  M.  M.  Viard  and  Fouret. 


MADE-DISHES. —  PHEASANTS,  WOODCOCKS.  151 

gravy  for  half  an  hour,  together  with  some  artichoke 
bottoms,  asparagus  tops,  both  blanched  in  warm  water,  and 
a  few  mushrooms.  Add  the  other  gravy  to  this,  and  put 
in  the  partridges  to  become  hot.  Serve  the  partridges  up 
with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 

PHEASANTS  A-LA-BRAISE  are  treated  in  the  same 
way  as  Partridges  cl-la-Braise,  with  this  difference,  that 
the  bacon  is  less  in  quantity  and  the  beef  more  ;  and,  of 
course,  as  the  pheasant  is  a  larger  bird  than  a  partridge,  it 
will  require  more  gravy  and  more  time  to  prepare  it ;  an 
hour  or  more  will  be  requisite.  Some  will  add  to  the  gravy 
catchup  and  red  wine.  You  may  garnish  with  lemon,  and 
lay  forcemeat  balls  around  the  dish. 

WOODCOCKS  or  SNIPES  EN  SURTOUT.  Beat 
'  together  in  a  mortar  equal  parts  of  veal  forcemeat,  mutton 
;  suet  chopped,  and  crumb  of  bread,  to  which  add  a  little 
bruised  mace,  pepper,  salt,  some  parsley,  a  few  sweet  herbs, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Lay  some  of  this  meat  round  a 
baking  dish,  into  which  put  your  birds  which  must  be  pre¬ 
viously  half  roasted;  take  care  of  the  trail,  chop  it,  and 
strew  it  over  the  dish.  Stew,  now  in  a  little  good  gravy,  a 
sweetbread  cut  in  pieces,  artichoke  bottoms  cut  small,  some 
truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two 
or  three  eggs  with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  white  wine  ;  when 
thick,  take  it  off,  cool  it,  and  pour  it  upon  your  birds.  Lay 
some  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  here  and  there ;  cover  the 
;  whole  of  your  dish  with  the  remainder  of  your  forcemeat 
rolled  into  a  sort  of  paste  ;  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  eggs 

!and  put  it  into  the  oven ;  it  will  require  half  an  hour’s 
bakino;. 

Note. — The  quantity  of  your  forcemeat  must  depend 
upon  the  size  and  number  of  your  birds. 

LARKS  A-LA-FRANCOISE.  Truss  them  with  the 
■ii  legs  across,  and  then  put  them  on  a  lark -spit  with  thin 
slices  of  bacon  and  a  vine  or  a  green  sage  leaf  between 
each  ;  stew  over  them  crumbs  of  bread  while  roasting ;  or 
you  may  omit  the  bread,  if  you  please,  merely  strewing  over 
them  a  little  Hour.  Serve  them  up  with  bread  crumbs  fried 
in  butter  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  birds  around  it ; 
or  the  fried  bread  crumbs  around  them,  and  the  birds  in  the 


152 


MADE-DISHES.  —  HARES,  RABBITS. 

middle  of  the  dish.  Melted  butter  will  be  an  agreeable  ac¬ 
companiment. 

A  FLORENDINE  HARE  is  thus  dressed  :  take  a  full- 
grown  hare,  and  let  it  bang  four  or  five  days  before  you 
case  it.  Leave  on  the  ears,  but  take  out  all  the  bones 
except  those  of  the  head  which  must  be  left  whole.  Put 
into  the  belly  the  following  stuffing :  the  crumb  of  a  penny 
loaf,  the  liver  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon 
scraped,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  an  anchovy,  two  eggs,  some 
sweet  herbs  chopped  fine,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg :  roll 
the  hare  thus  stuffed  up  to  the  head,  and  fasten  it  with 
packthread  as  you  would  a  collar  of  veal ;  boil  it  in  a  cloth 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  stew-pan  covered  closely, 
in  two  quarts  of  water.  When  the  liquor  is  reduced  to 
one  quart,  add  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  spoonful  each  of 
lemon  pickle,  catchup,  and  browning.  Take  out  your  hare 
and  reduce  the  gravy  to  a  pint,  and  thicken  it  with  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Lay  your  hare  in  the  dish  and  poui-  the 
sauce  over  it,  having  previously  drawn  out  the  jaw-bones 
and  stuck  them  in  the  sockets  of  the  eyes ;  the  ears  being 
also  laid  back  on  the  roll,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  put  into 
the  mouth.  You  may  garnish  with  barberries  and  parsley  ; 
Mrs.  Glasse  says,  with  water  cresses. 

Note. — This  is  another  and,  perhaps,  the  last  of  those 
useless  and  unnecessary  dishes,  the  directions  for  which, 
from  Mrs.  Glasse  downwards,  are  to  be  found  in  almost  all 
our  cookery  books.  Here,  as  on  many  other  occasions, 
our  cooks  seem  determined  that  all  the  virtues  of  the  pint 
of  wine  should  be  destroyed  by  direct  evaporation ! 

A  FLORENDINE  RABBIT  is  dressed  in  a  similar 
way  as  the  preceding  Florendine  hare  ;  but  it  is  served  up 
with  white  sauce.  Your  garnish  may  be  lemon  and  bar¬ 
berries. 

RABBITS  SURPRISED.  Take  two  rabbits,  and  stuff 
them  as  for  roasting ;  when  they  are  roasted  sufficiently, 
take  off  the  meat  clean  from  the  bones  which  leave  whole. 
Chop  the  meat  very  fine  with  some  parsley,  lemon-peel, 
an  ounce  of  beef-marrow,  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and  a  little 
salt;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  bit 
of  butter  in  a  marble  mortar ;  mix  all  together,  and  stew  it 


MADE-DISHES.— MACARONI,  RAMEQUINS.  153 

for  five  minutes ;  lay  it  on  the  bones  of  the  rabbits  where 
|  the  meat  has  been  taken  off  pressing  it  down  closely, 
in  order  that  the  rabbits  may  appear  whole ;  then  brown 
them  all  over  with  a  salamander.  Pour  a  good  brown 
gravy  made  as  thick  as  cream  into  the  dish,  and  stick  a 
sprig  of  myrtle  in  their  mouths.  Serve  them  up  with  the 
livers  boiled  and  frothed. 

RABBITS  EN  CASSEROLE  are  cut  into  quarters  and 
fried  in  lard  or  butter ;  they  may  be  previously  larded  or 
not  as  you  choose ;  they  are  next  put  into  an  earthen  jar 
wfith  a  quart  of  good  broth,  some  wine,  condiments,  and 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  stewed  for  about  half  an  hour. 

IThey  are  served  up  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them,  and 
a  garnish  of  sliced  Seville  oranges. 

OYSTER  LOAVES.  Make  a  hole  in  the  top  of  some 
little  round  loaves  of  bread  and  take  out  the  crumb.  Put 
some  oysters  into  a  stew-pan  with  their  liquor,  the  crumbs 
taken  from  the  loaves,  and  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and 
stew  them  together  for  five  or  six  minuets,  then  put  in  a 
spoonful  of  cream  and  fill  the  loaves  with  your  stew.  Lay 
a  bit  of  crust  carefully  on  the  top  of  each  and  put  them  in 
the  oven  to  crisp. 

MACARONI  is  an  Italian  composition,  and  very  little 
known  in  this  country,  except  among  the  more  luxurious : 
it  is  not  in  any  way  an  English  dish ;  but  some  will  thus 
I  prepare  it :  boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ribbon  macaroni, 
(it  is  to  be  obtained  also  in  pipes )  in  beef  stock  till  tender  ; 

!  strain  it,  and  add  a  gill  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  essence  of  ham,  three  ounces 
of  Parmasan  cheese,  some  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little 
salt ;  mix  them  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  then 
place  them  in  your  dish ;  strew  over  it  grated  Parmasan, 
brown  it  with  a  hot  salamander,  and  serve  it  up. 

Note. —  Considerable  quantities  of  macaroni  have  been 
occasionally  brought  to  this  country;  it  sometimes  becomes 
spoiled  by  long  keeping ;  we  have  known  it  to  be  employed 
in  powder  instead  of  coarse  meal  for  very  ordinary  pur¬ 
poses  ;  but  it  is  not  so  good  as  plain  wheat  flour. 

RAMEQUINS  form  another  of  those  foreign  dishes 
with  which  some  of  our  epicureans  are  pleased.  They  are 
made  abroad  chiefly  with  Parmasan  or  other  choice  cheese, 

ii  3 


154  MADE-DISHES. — EAMEQU1NS,  MOCK  CRAB. 

butter,  eggs,  and  bread.  In  this  country  they  are  more 
commonly  made  thus:  take  of  good,  sound,  old,  and  fat 
cheese,  (the  sort  is  not  material  whether  it  be  Chedder, 
Gloucester,  or  Cheshire,)  and  of  fresh  butter  equal  parts  ; 
the  cheese  must  be  broken  or  cut  into  small  bits  and  then 
boiled  in  the  butter  and  a  half  pint  of  water,  a  little  salt, 
and  a  minced  anchovy ;  to  these  some  will  add  flour  to 
thicken  it ;  others  instead  use  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in 
hot  milk ;  others  again  will  omit  the  wrater  and  employ 
instead  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs ;  the  whole  is  how¬ 
ever  to  be  well  beaten  into  a  paste,  to  which  a  little  bruised 
mace  must  be  added.  Care  must  also  be  taken  that  the 
paste  is  sufficiently  stiff  so  as  not  to  run  ;  it  must  then  be 
placed  in  little  square  papers  pinched  at  the  four  corners, 
and  laid  on  a  tin,  and  be  baked  of  a  fine  yellow  brown, 
or  saucers  or  patty-pans  may  be  employed  instead  of 
paper. 

Note ,  a  Dutch  oven  is  very  convenient  for  the  baking 
of  this  dish.  Of  course,  if  you  have  some  good  Parma- 
san  or  other  foreign  cheese  you  will  use  it  if  you  prefer  it. 
The  French  cooks  direct  that  ramequins  should  be  about 
the  size  of  a  pigeon’s  egg ;  and  in  order  that  they  may  be 
good  they  must  be  light  and  of  a  beautiful  colour. 

RAMEQUINS,  another  form  for.  We  are  indebted 
to  the  lady  alluded  to  in  page  114,  for  the  following  much 
more  simple,  and  therefore  better  recipe  for  this  dish. 

Soak  the  crumb  of  a  roll  in  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  a 
mixture,  consisting  of  equal  parts  of  milk  and  cream, 
which  must  be  poured  on  the  crumb  boiling  hot ;  let  it 
stand  half  an  hour,  and  then  beat  it  fine,  and  add  two  eggs, 
two  ounces  of  grated  Parmasan  cheese,  a  bit  of  butter, 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Put  it  into  small  tins  and  bake 
them  half  an  hour. — Y. 

MOCK  CRAB.  Melt  carefully  over  a  very  gentle  fire 
in  a  small  stewpan  some  good,  old,  and  fat  cheese,  (care 
must  be  taken  that  it  is  neither  mouldy  nor  decayed,)  with 
some  vinegar,  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt  if  required.  The 
whole  of  these  when  intimately  incorporated  (and  in  proper 
proportions,  to  be  determined  by  the  judgment  of  the  cook,) 
form  in  a  few  minutes  a  very  good  and  a  very  wholesome 
succedaneum  for  the  contents  of  the  belly  of  a  crab :  it  will 


MADE-DISHES. —  OMELETTES. 


155 

be  found,  for  a  dish  at  the  family  fire-side,  for  supper,  very 
superior  to  either  crab  or  lobster,  and,  of  course,  far  less 
expensive — a  bonne  bouche,  which,  if  partaken  of  in  mo¬ 
deration,  with  a  fair  proportion  of  bread,  is  not  very  likely 
to  disturb  the  stomach  or  occasion  unpleasant  dreams. 

TOAST  AND  CYDER,  a  Somersetshire  dish.  Take 
a  quart  or  more  of  good,  strong,  rough  cyder,  (that  which 
is  sweet  is  not  desirable);  place  it  in  a  jug  or  bowl,  to  be¬ 
come  warm  on  the  hearth  or  hob  of  a  fire-place,  taking 
care  to  cover  it  closely  while  it  is  warming.  During  this 
process  toast  one  or  more  rounds  of  bread  well  on  both 
sides  and  lay  them  in  a  bowl,  over  which  strew  sufficient 
sugar  to  make  the  cyder  agreeably  sweet ;  you  must  also 
grate  over  the  bread  a  considerable  part  of  a  nutmeg. 
When  the  cyder  is  become  hot,  but  not  quite  scalding, 
pour  it  into  the  bowl  upon  the  bread,  sugar,  and  nutmeg, 
and  let  them  soak  together  closely  covered  till  the  bread  is 
completely  tender.  It  is  usually  eaten  served  up  with  a 
dish  of  toasted  cheese ;  it  will  be  found  a  very  pleasant 
repast  for  a  winter’s  evening. 

Note,  that,  instead  of  bread,  some  employ  biscuits  that 
are,  at  once,  well  raised  by  yeast  and  well  baked.  In  this 
case  the  biscuits  are  toasted  on  both  sides,  or  made  hot  in 
a  Dutch  oven  and  then  plunged  into  the  cyder.  This  is  a 
plain,  simple,  old  English  dish,  and  very  superior  to  many 
that  we  have  borrowed  from  the  French.  It  is  in  Somer¬ 
setshire  a  very  common  dish  on  Christmas  eve, 

“  When  the  brands  are  burning  bright. 

And  every  heart  is  light.’"’ 

OMELETTES  of  various  kinds  are  described  in  page 
79;  but  we  may  just  mention  here,  in  addition,  that  they 
are  sometimes  made  with  eggs  beaten  together  with  minced 
parsley,  some  shalots  chopped  fine,  an  anchovy  minced, 
and  grated  ham,  and  fried  in  butter.  To  these  are  some¬ 
times  added  the  boiled  tops  of  asparagus,  fowl,  oysters,  and 
other  ingredients  pounded  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
with  the  addition  of  cream  and  catchup.  They  are  browmed 
with  a  hot  salamander,  and  served  up  with  a  little  good 
gravy  or  truffle  sauce. 


156 


M  AD  E-D I S  H E S . —  C U  R  R I E S. 


MUSHROOM  LOAVES  consist  of  small  mushrooms 
washed  as  for  pickling,  and  then  boiled  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  little  water,  to  which  are  added  two  spoonsful  of 
cream,  some  butter  rolled  in  starch,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Fill  small  loaves  of  bread  in  the  same  manner  as  directed 
for  oyster  loaves  above,  and  crisp  them  in  an  oven  in  the 
same  way. 

CURRIES  are  made  -  dishes  seasoned  with  currie- 
powder,  (for  which  see  our  Chapter  on  Sauces,  page  170.) 
Some  of  our  cookery  books  contain  many  directious  for 
various  curries,  as  of  chicken,  of  veal,  of  fish,  of  rabbits, 
of  fowl,  &c.;  but  as  we  have  already  described  made- 
dishes  from  most  of  these  viands,  and  as  the  addition  of 
currie-powcler  constitutes  the  characteristic  of  the  dish, 
it  cannot  be  necessary  to  enter  here  into  a  separate  descrip¬ 
tion  of  each  ;  besides,  we  believe,  that  few  persons,  except 
an  epicurean,  will  desire  such  a  dish  at  any  time ;  and, 
therefore,  it  will  be  sufficient  to  inform  the  cook,  from  one 
specimen,  how  curries  are  most  commonly  prepared. 

A  CURRIE  OF  CHICKENS.  Braise *  the  chickens 
cut  into  pieces  in  a  stewpan,  with  butter  and  sliced  onions, 
till  they  become  a  nice  brown,  (some  instead  will  fry  them 
in  a  frying-pan);  then  add  some  good  broth,  and  simmer  till 
the  chickens  become  tender.  Mix  now  half  an  ounce  ox- 
more  of  currie-powder,  with  some  flour  or  pure  starch,  into 
a  smooth  batter,  with  butter  and  some  of  the  liquor  in  your 
stewpan :  add  this  batter  to  the  stewed  chicken  and  sim¬ 
mer  the  whole  for  about  fifteen  or  more  minutes.  Season 
with  salt,  to  which  some  add  cayenne  or  other  pepper; 
add  also  a  little  lemon-juice  or  the  juice  of  tamarinds. 
Sei-ve  it  up  with  slices  of  lemon.  Some  add  the  currie- 
powder  at  once  to  the  chicken  and  the  broth  and  stew  them 
together,  adding  the  other  sauce  afterwards. 

Note. — A  currie  may  be  made  with  dressed  as  well  as 
undressed  meat,  fowl,  &c.;  if  with  dressed  meat,  par¬ 
ticularly  roasted  meat,  it  need  not  be  braised,  but  simply 
simmered  with  the  currie-powder,  &c. 

*  Eor  tlie  meaning  of  this  word,  see  forwards,  under  our  chap¬ 
ter  on  Sauces,  &c.  Article  Rich  Gravy. 


MADE-DISIIES. —MARINADES,  QUENELLES.  157 

Note  also  that  some  add  cream  to  the  currie-sauce ;  and 
that  those  who  are  fond  of  the  stimulant  properties  of  garlic 
will  choose  that  in  preference  to  onions. 

For  RICE  TO  BE  EATEN  WITH  CURRIE  see  our 
chapter  on  Vegetables. 

Before  closing  our  chapter  on  made-dishes,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  say  a  word  or  two  on  some  subjects,  which  we 
find  very  commonly  mentioned  in  French  cookery,  namely, 
the  marinade ,  godiveau,  quenelles,  and  farce  cuite. 

A  MARINADE  may  be  described  as  a  sort  of  pickle, 
in  which  an  acid  or  salt  is  commonly  employed  as  one  of 
its  ingredients ;  a  marinade,  however,  consists  sometimes 
of  condiments  and  oil.  The  French  order  a  marinade  thus: 
take  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water,  cut  some  onions  in 
slices,  to  which  add  parsley,  garlic,  salt,  and  pepper. 
When  you  marinade  vegetables  the  garlic  and  onion  may 
be  omitted.  A  marinade  may  be  also  thus  made :  melt  a 
bit  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  to  which  add  a  carrot,  an  onion 
minced  with  sufficient  pepper,  salt,  garlic,  and  hay-leaves, 

;!  moistened  with  water  or  with  broth,  and  a  third  part  of 
good  vinegar;  after  proper  boiling,  strain  it  through  a  sieve. 
The  French  marinade  all  sorts  of  meat  and  poultry  which 
they  desire  to  fry.* 

AN  ENGLISH  MARINADE.  Boil  gravy,  vinegar, 
salt,  some  whole  black  pepper,  a  few  bay  leaves,  onions 
sliced,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  little  thyme  altogether  for 
ten  or  more  minutes,  and  strain  off  the  liquor. 

Note. — The  gravy  and  vinegar  may  be  in  equal  quantity. 

GODIVEAU  is  thus  made  :  remove  from  a  slice  of  a 
fillet  of  veal  all  its  membranes,  tendons,  and  fat,  to  which 
add  double  its  weight  of  beef  suet  also  freed  from  its 
membranes,  &c.  and  as  dry  as  possible ;  mince  and  mix 
the  whole  together  by  adding  a  little  water  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  another  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  a  little  water  ;  season  it  at  your  pleasure,  to  which 
add  some  parsley  chopped  fine,  and  poach  it  like  quenelles. 
See  the  next  article. 

Note. — This  is  neither  more  nor  less  than  a  forcemeat. 

QUENELLES  are  made  with  poultry,  game,  fish,  or 

*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier ,  par  Cardelli,  page  83. 


158  MADE-DISHES. — FORCEMEAT  BALLS. 

veal.  Mince  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  any  of  these  which 
you  choose,  and  pass  it  through  a  quenelle  sieve,  to 
which  add  some  crumb  of  bread  boiled  in  broth ;  pound 
the  whole  together  in  a  mortar  with  some  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  spices  if  you  choose ;  when  the  mixture  is 
complete,  take  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  and  mix 
them  with  the  preceding ;  take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  so  that  they  may  become 
like  snowr ;  incorporate  the  whites  with  the  other  ingre¬ 
dients. 

This  being  done,  warm  some  broth  or  wrater,  to  which 
add  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  then  fill  a  dessert  or  other 
spoon,  as  a  mould,  with  the  forcemeat,  so  that  each 
quenelle  may  appear  like  an  egg  cut  in  half  longitudinally. 
When  you  have  thus  prepared  as  many  quenelles  as  you 
want,  boil  them  in  the  broth  for  about  ten  minutes,  and 
they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Note. — Some  will  make  them  into  balls  like  other  force¬ 
meat  ;  some  again  will  add,  to  make  quenelles,  besides 
veal,  a  boiled  calf’s  udder.  But,  in  fact,  there  is  no  end 
to  the  fancy  in  making  forcemeats.  It  is  usually  con¬ 
sidered  desirable  in  making  quenelles  that  one  should  be 
made  first  as  a  sort  of  proof,  and  be  boiled  in  order  to 
ascertain  whether  they  be  wrell-seasoned  and  of  a  proper 
degree  of  lightness. 

Their  proportion  ought  to  consist  of  equal  parts  of 
bread  and  flesh,  fowl,  or  fish  as  you  may  choose,  and 
the  eggs  and  a  little  more  of  butter :  each  substance 
ought  to  be  beaten  w'ell  separately,  and  afterwards  the 
whole  together.* 

ENGLISH  FORCEMEAT  BALLS.  We  have  else¬ 
where  given  forms  for  forcemeat  balls ;  but  it  may  be 
convenient  to  the  cook  to  refer  at  once  to  an  article  for 
them.  We  therefore  give  the  following: 

Beat  equal  parts  of  veal  and  mutton  or  beef  suet  finely 
minced,  in  a  marble  mortar  or  wrooden  bowd,  to  which  add 
a  few  sweet  herbs  shred  fine,  a  little  pounded  mace,  some 
grated  nutmeg,  chopped  lemon  peel,  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
yolk  of  two  eggs.  Mix  the  whole  well  together ;  form 

*  Manuel  de  Vuismier,  par  Cardelli,  page  8G. 


159 


MADE-DISHES. —  FARCE  CUITE,  &C. 

some  into  small  balls  and  some  into  long1  rolls.  Roll  them 
in  flour,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown.  If  to  be  used  with 
white  sauce,  instead  of  frying  them  plunge  them  into  boiling 
water,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes. 

FARCE  CUITE  is  another  of  those  dishes  for  which 
we  are  indebted  to  the  French.  Cut  some  bacon  and  veal, 
from  which  all  the  skin,  tendons,  and  ligaments  have  been 
taken,  into  bits  of  the  size  of  dice ;  salt  and  pepper  them 
iand  stew  them  in  butter ;  when  they  are  done  take  them 
out,  and  let  them  grow  cold ;  mince  them  very  fine,  and 
add  some  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  broth ;  mix  the  whole 
with  the  yolk  of  one  or  more  eggs,  to  which  add  some 
truffles  and  mushrooms  chopped  fine  and  stewed  in  butter. 

Note. — This  farce  may  be  also  made  with  the  flesh  of 
fowl,  game,  or  fish. 

Another  Farce  Quite.  Cut  into  dice  the  white  flesh 
of  a  fowl  or  other  bird ;  stew  it  for  ten  minutes  in  some 
butter  with  salt,  whole  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ; 
when  it  is  done  take  it  out,  drain  it,  and  let  it  grow  cold  ; 
put  now  some  crumb  of  bread  into  the  same  stewpan  with 
some  broth  and  a  little  parsley  minced  fine  ;  stir  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  so  as  to  reduce  it  to  a  panada  ;  when  it  is 
incorporated  with  the  broth  take  it  from  the  stewpan,  and 
set  it  by  to  cool ;  take  also  a  calf’s  udder  which  has  been 
Istewed  and  cool,  (or  if  not  dressed  you  must  stew  it  in 
butter.)  Take  now  the  prepared  fowl  and  pound  it  in  a 
mortar ;  when  it  is  well  beaten  pass  it  through  a  quenelle 
sieve ;  treat  the  panada  in  the  same  way,  and  also  the 
calf’s  udder,  taking  care  that  you  have  equal  portions  of 
these  articles.  Lastly,  beat  the  whole  well  together  ;  when 
lit  has  been  beaten  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour,  add  to 
it  (according  to  the  quantity  of  the  whole)  the  yolks  of 
five  or  more  eggs;  beat  again  the  mixture  well.  Set  it  by 
In  a  jar  for  use. 

Note. — Care  must  be  taken  to  add  sufficient  salt  to  keep 
it,  or  it  will  of  course  spoil.* 

A  STUFFING  FOR  A  ROASTED  FOWL,  TUR¬ 
KEY,  or  RABBIT,  as  well  as  for  many  other  dishes. 
Take  of  pork  sausage  meat  and  crumb  of  bread  equal  parts, 


*  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  56. 


160  MADE-DISHES. — STUFFING  FOE  FOWLS. 


one  egg  well  beaten,  some  parsley  finely  minced,  and  a 
little  salt.  Beat  the  whole  well  together  and  fill  the  crop 
of  the  fowl  or  other  bird  with  it ;  if  a  rabbit  the  stuffing- 
must  be  put  into  the  belly. 

Note,  that  this  is  an  excellent  stuffing  for  a  fowl  or  other 
bird  wffien  it  is  designed  to  be  roasted.  If  the  bird  be 
large  it  will  be,  perhaps,  necessary  to  employ  more  eggs 
than  one. 


WE  now  make  our  bow — our  made-dishea  are  done. 
You  may  take  which  you  please  of  our  hundred-and-one. 
But  if  you  are  willing  to  take  our  advice. 

If  you  wish  those  at  once  that  are  simple  and  nice. 

Avoid  all  such  compounds  as  Florendine  hares ; 

Nor  let  the  squab  pigeons*  have  aught  of  your  cares. 

You  may  take  a  quenelle,  as  bonne  bouche,  if  you  please. 
But  be  sure  toast  arid  cyder  and  good  toasted  cheese, 

Or  mock  crab  is  better  than  any  of  these. 

Avoid,  too,  the  dishes  yclept  macaroni, 

Although  they  be  prais’d  by  an  epicure  crony. 

But  a.  goose,  dress’d  as  we  have  directed  above. 

You  will  find  a  good  dish — and  we  swear  it  by  Jove  ' 


*  Pigeons  d  la  Monarque . 


161 


CHAPTER  IX. 

[SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  AND  OTHER  COMPOUND  CON¬ 
DIMENTS  ;  A  CATALOGUE  ALSO  OF  SIMPLE 
CONDIMENTS  USED  IN  COOKERY  OR  WITH 
FOOD. 


Again  we  lift  our  voice  ;  beware. 
However  racy,  rich,  or  rare. 

Of  compound  condiments  :  for  those 
Are  good  digestion’s  greatest  foes. 

You  may  with  safety  call  cayenne 
A  friend  to  Jish ;  and  now  and  then 
Horse  radish  will  its  aid  impart 
To  impel  the  blood  and  cheer  the  heart : — 
Our  native  smallage*  also  one 
Whose  seeds  are  second  unto  none  \ 

Rut  such,  the  spices  t  all  require 
Appliance  of  the  gentlest  fire. 

Or  off  their  virtues  fast  will  fly 
And  all  your  cooking  art  defy. 

You  may  too,  haply,  some  good  wine 
With  simple  sauces  well  combine  ; 

But  if  you  much  the  mixture  boil 
Assuredly  the  sauce  you  spoil. 

Of  flour,  again  we  say,  beware, £ 

Of  eggs,  again  too,  have  a  care  ; 

Simplicity  he  your  regard, 

And  she  will  amply  you  reward. 


I*  Smallage,  or  apium  gvaveolens ,  is  a  very  common  plant 
rowing  in  many  moist  places  in  this  country.  When  cultivated 
becomes  the  celery  of  our  gardens  ;  it  has  been  suspected  that 
ie  roots  and  leaves  of  wild  smallage  are  poisonous  :  they  are 
sver,  that  we  know  of,  eaten  ;  nor  do  wre  recommend  them  as  a 
indiment :  but  this  we  do  know,  and  therefore  speak  confidently 
i  the  subject,  that  the  seeds  of  smallage  are  more  pungent 
an  those  of  celery,  and  may  be  usefully  employed  to  flavour 
mps,  &c. 

t  By  spices  here  are  meant  nutmegs,  mace,  cinnamon ,  cloves, 
ssia,  and  cassia-buds,  to  which  may  be  added  allspice  :  the  virtues 
all  these  reside  chiefly  in  an  essential  oil  that  is  readily  dissipated 
J  heat.  The  pungent  aroma  of  horse-radish  is  also  soon  dissi- 
ited  by  the  same  agent. 

f  It  affords  us  very  great  pleasure  to  find  that  our  Gallican 
ighbours  begin  to  appreciate  in  their  cookery  that  knowledge 


162 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


General  Observations.  We  have  little  to  add  to 
what  we  have  said  in  the  preceding  lines  but  this,  that 
although  we  are  not  disposed  to  bow  implicitly  to  our 
neighbours  the  French  in  their  exercise  of  the  art  of 
cookery,  we  are,  nevertheless,  quite  willing  to  admit  that 
some  of  their  forms  deserve  imitation  ;  none  more  perhaps 
than  those  in  which  condiments  are  reduced  to  essences, 
that  become,  on  numerous  occasions,  at  once  useful  and 
agreeable :  we,  therefore,  without  hesitation  take  the  op¬ 
portunity  of  enriching  our  pages  with  a  few  recipes  new, 
we  believe,  to  the  English  public.* 

We  have  given  various  directions  for  sauces,  &c.  in 
several  parts  of  our  work  ;  but  we  deem  it  expedient  to 
arrange  under  one  head  many  which  could  not,  with  pro¬ 
priety,  be  placed  anywhere  else  ;  this  arrangement  will  be 
found,  besides,  of  great  convenience  to  the  practical  cook. 

Forcemeat  Balls  and  similar  compound  condiments 
■will  be  found  at  the  conclusion  of  the  last  chapter,  to 
which  the  reader  will  be  good  enough  to  refer. 

The  French  arrange  sauces  under  two  heads,  namely, 
Grandes  et  Petites ;  but  we  see  no  necessity  for  such 
divisions.  The  principal  qualities  of  sauces  should  consist 
in  that  which  excites  the  action,  more  or  less  lively,  of  the 
nervous  papillae  of  the  tongue,  of  the  palate,  and  of  all 
which  constitutes  the  organ  of  taste ;  but  principally  of 
the  maxillary  glands.  When  they  are  too  mild  they 
produce  no  sensation,  their  object  is  lost;  when  they  are 
too  sharp  they  burn  or  excite  the  mouth  too  much,  instead 

of  natural  bodies  which  chemistry  and  accurate  observation 
supply  ;  and  it  is  infinitely  satisfactory  to  us  to  find  in  the  work 
of  M.  Cardelli,  “  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,”  page  59,  the  following, 
which  is  in  accordance  with  the  directions  that  we  have 
again  and  again  given  in  this  work  : — “  Nous  ne  donnons  ici 
que  les  principles,  et  dans  toutes,  celles  ou  nous  recommandons 
d’ajouter  de  la  farine,  nous  devons  avertir  qu’il  est  bien  preferable 
de  ne  se  servir  que  de  la  fecule  de  ponune  de  terre;  par  ce  moyen, 
on  fait  des  sauces  beaucoup  plus  consistante  et  qu’il  meme  inutile 
de  faire  reduire  ”  The  ingenious  author  might  have  added  that 
potatoe  starch  in  sauces  is  much  more  likely  to  suit  the  human 
stomach  than  iclieat  flour ;  a  consideration  of  the  last  importance 
in  the  art  of  cookery. 

*  We  retain  the  l-'rench  names  in  order  that  credit  may  be  given 
where  it  is  due  ;  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  par  Cardelli,  page  62. 


I 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES.  163 

;  of  producing  an  agreeable  sapidity.  How  many  alimentary 
substances  have  merit  only  by  the  sauce  with  which  they  are 
accompanied  or  prepared  ?  * 

As  an  instance  of  the  truth  of  the  preceding  observations 
we  may  mention  common  salt,  a  sauce  or  condiment  of 
the  most  useful,  yet  of  the  most  common  kind.  Let  an 
excellent  broth  or  soup,  or  a  slice  of  exquisite  roasted 
meat,  be  taken  into  the  mouth,  and  if  it  be  not  seasoned , 
as  we  say,  that  is,  has  not  the  salt  calculated  to  produce 
the  proper  excitement  of  the  organs  of  taste,  we  cannot 
like,  we  do  not  relish  the  food.  Salt,  therefore,  from  its 
universal  use,  appears  essential  to  us  as  a  condiment. 
Other  condiments  may  also,  by  use,  become  necessary 
to  the  particular  relish  of  a  dish ;  care,  however,  ought  to 
be  taken  in  the  introduction  of  condiments,  sauces,  &c. 
that  they  are  neither  unwholesome,  nor  expensive,  at  least 
to  those  who  can  ill  afford  to  pay  for  them.  Fortunately 
for  mankind  the  best  condiments  are  least  expensive,  of 
which  salt  is  one. 

ESSENCE  D’ASSORTIMENT.  Put  into  an  earthern 
pipkin  half  a  bottle  of  white  wine,  half  a  glass  of  vinegar, 
the  juice  of  twro  lemons,  three  ounces  of  salt,  half  an 
ounce  of  whole  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg  and  mace,  four 
cloves,  and  as  many  bay  leaves,  a  little  thyme,  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  a  little  clove  of  garlic,  ten  shalots  peeled,  and 
one  ounce  of  small  dried  mushrooms.  Set  the  pipkin  on 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  ready  to  boil  slacken  the  fire  and 
let  the  pipkin  remain  upon  the  hot  cinders  during  six  or 
seven  hours.  Strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and,  if 
need  be,  filter  it  and  keep  it  in  a  vessel  well  stopped.  It 
may  be  used  in  small  quantities  for  a  variety  of  purposes. 

Note.  —The  above  are  the  directions  given  in  the  work 
referred  to  ;  but  the  English  cook  wall  find  a  water  bath 
much  better  suited  to  the  operation  than  an  open  fire,  as 
the  heat  can  be  better  regulated.  Care  should  also  be 
taken  to  keep  the  vessel  well  closed  during  the  process, 
or  all  the  spirit  of  the  wine  will  escape.  With  the 
addition  of  anchovies  ( without  their  bones)  and  walnut 
catchup  or  soy  this  essence  will  be  a  good  Quin  sauce. 
It  may  also  supply  the  place  of  the  Sauce  Superlative 

*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier ,  par  Cavdelli,  page  58. 


164 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES. 


of  many  of  our  cotemporaries.  It  is  advisable,  although 
not  so  directed  in  the  original,  to  mince  the  shalots,  the 
garlic,  and  dried  mushrooms,  as  their  virtues  will  be  thus 
more  readily  extracted. 

ESSENCE  D’AIL,  or  ESSENCE  OF  GARLIC, 
is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  preceding  ;  but  the 
quantity  of  garlic  must  be  six  cloves,  and  the  same 
number  of  the  spice  called  cloves,  the  fourth  part  of  a 
nutmeg  and  two  bay  leaves  for  a  bottle  of  w'ine. 

ESSENCE  DE  GIBIER.  Pursue  the  same  methods 
as  the  preceding  with  the  remains  of  all  sorts  of  game,  such 
as  hares,  rabbits,  partridges,  venison,  &c. 

ESSENCE  DE  VOLAILLE.*  Pound  in  a  mortar 
the  remains  of  dressed  poultry,  whether  roasted  or  other¬ 
wise  ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  to  wrhich  add  an  onion,  a 
carrot,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley ;  moisten  the  whole  with 
some  broth  or  water,  season  it  to  your  taste,  and  stew  it 
over  a  slow  fire  ;  strain  it  when  done  through  a  silk  sieve. 

BECHAMEL.  Reduce  over  a  good  fire  some  sauct 
tournee,  (see  Veloute  oil  Sauce  tournee,  forwards)  moistened 
with  essence  de  volatile  or  consomme,  stir  it  continualh 
that  it  may  not  attach  itself  to  the  saucepan ;  when  it  is 
reduced  to  a  proper  consistence,  add  to  it  two  glasses  of 
boiling  cream,  and  omit  not  for  a  moment  to  keep  the  mix¬ 
ture  moving.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve  and  serve 
it  up.f 

Note. — Bechamel  or  white  gravy  is  employed  upoi 
many  occasions  and  is  made  in  other  ways  besides  tin 
above;  the  following  is  an  old  fashioned  method:  cut  int< 
pieces  white  veal,  lean  ham,  turnips,  celery,  onions,  t< 
which  add  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  whole  white  pepper,  ant 
other  condiments  that  you  may  choose,  and  some  good  vea 
or  mutton  broth  ;  boil  it  for  some  time,  and  add  a  little  flou 
and  butter;  skim  it  during  the  boiling1,  and  add  crean 
enough  to  make  it  white,  strain  it  off ;  it  ought  to  be  abou 
the  thickness  of  light  batter. 

BEURRE  D’ANCHOIS ;  or,  Butter  of  Anciio 

*  Volatile  in  the  French  language  usually  implies  domesti 
poultry;  but  it  is  sometimes  used  in  a  more  extended  sense;  it  | 
etymology  woul  designate  all  birds. 

t  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  par  Cardelli,  page  59. 


SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES.  —  MELTED  BUTTER.  165 

vies.  Wash  well  some  anchovies,  remove  the  flesh  from 
;he  bones,  dry  it,  mince  it,  and  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar ; 
ivhen  it  is  reduced  to  a  paste  mix  it  with  double  its  weight 
if  fresh  butter. 

BEURRE  AUX  FINES  HERBES;  or  Butter  with 
Aromatic  Herbs;  take  whatever  herbs  you  please  and 
flanch  them,  then  mince  them  and  mix  them  with  good 
resh  butter. 

BEURRE  DE  PIMENT  is  made  by  mixing-  fresh 
•utter  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  allspice  in  powder. 

BEURRE  NOIR;  or,  Black  Butter.  Melt  in  a 
rying  pan  half  a  pound  of  butter  till  it  becomes  almost 
lack,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  inflame.  Put  into  a  stew- 
an  half  a  glass  of  vineg-ar,  some  salt  and  pepper ;  boil 
hese  up  and  strain  them  hot  into  the  butter  to  be  used  as 
pcasion  offers. 

Rote. — Some  add  a  variety  of  herbs  and  spice  to  this 
pndiment ;  and  some  direct  the  butter  to  remain  by  the 
re  not  over  it,  till  it  becomes  coloured.  We  have  nothing 
hatever  to  say  in  commendation  of  this  sauce. 

MELTED  BUTTER.  We  suppose  that  every  cook 
links  she  knows  how  to  melt  butter  for  the  table :  but, 
evertheless,  it  is  our  duty  to  say,  that  the  practice  of  melt- 
lg  it  with  wheat  flour  to  thicken  it  is  invariably  bad,  and 
iould,  therefore,  be  invariably  avoided.  Pure  starch, 
ther  from  potatoes  or  other  sources,  should  be  always 
nployed.  We  have  insisted  upon  this  in  many  other 
irts  of  our  work,  and,  therefore,  we  have  less  occasion  to 
jate  it  here ;  we  may,  however,  mention  that  in  combin- 
ig  starch  or  flour  with  water  or  milk,  a  medium  to  thicken 
elted  butter,  care  must  be  taken  that  neither  is  in  too  great 
lantitv :  for,  if  the  starch  predominate,  the  mixture  will 
;  a  mucilage,  and  not  what  it  ought  to  be,  melted-butter  ; 
id  it  will  be,  besides,  so  thick  as  to  be  extremely  inconve- 
ient  to  be  poured  out.  The  chief  error  in  the  melted 
itter  usually  seen  at  our  tables  is  in  the  too  great  quantity 
flour  or  sta/ei'  u:'  by  far  too  small  a  quantity  of  butter 
the  mixture,  if  fact,  as  the  addition  of  either  flour  or 
arch  to  butter  is  merely  to  disguise  the  butter  so  that  it 
ay  not  appear  as  an  oil,  a  very  small  quantity  of  flour  or 
irch  will  be  found  sufficient  for  this  purpose.  Our 


166 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


English  tastes  carry,  perhaps,  our  repugnance  to  tire  ap¬ 
pearance  of  butter  as  oil  somewhat  too  far :  if  butter  be 
melted  alone  in  a  very  gentle  heat,  we  have  surely  a 
greater  probability  that  wre  shall  have  its  delicacy  of  taste 
in  greater  perfection  than  when  it  is  combined,  as  it  usually 
is,  with  flour  or  starch  and  milk  or  water.  Yet,  provided 
the  butter  be  melted  by  a  very  gentle  heat,  wre  see  no  real 
reason  why  it  might  not  be  brought  to  table  thus  liquefied. 
Of  course  the  application  of  a  great  heat  will  alter  its  pro¬ 
perties  and  render  it  little  better  than,  if  so  good  as,  the 
other  animal  oils.  Care  should  also  be  taken  that  the 
butter  is  fresh  and  of  a  pleasant  taste.  To  avoid  boiling 
the  butter  in  melting  it,  the  best  way  will  be  to  dissolve, 
first,  by  gentle  boiling,  the  proper  quantity  of  starch  or 
flour  in  the  milk  or  water,  and  then  add  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  butter  cut  into  small  pieces,  to  the  mixture ;  a  very  slight 
heat  will  then  be  necessary  to  form  the  melted  butter  as  it 
ought  to  be  brought  to  the  table.  The  cook  is  too  often  in 
a  hurry  with  this  article,  and  often,  therefore,  spoils  it. 

BLANC.  Take  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  the  same 
quantity  of  the  fat  of  bacon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
two  carrots,  two  onions  cut  in  half,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,* 
a  bay  leaf,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt,  some  whole  pepper, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  broth  ;  boil  the  whole  together 
for  some  time  and  then  strain  it  off.  Set  it  by  to  be  used 
for  dressing  the  meat  which  you  wish. 

ROUX.  Put  some  butter  into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is 
melted  add  to  it  a  proportionate  quantity  of  flour  or  rather 
pure  starch  ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  slacken  the  fire  and 
keep  it  gentle  for  about  three  hours,  stirring  the  mixture 
often,  when  it  becomes  of  a  beautiful  blond  f  colour,  take 
it  out  of  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  by  to  be  used  as  you 
want  it. 

Note. — This  may  be  employed  for  thickening  many 
sauces,  &c. 

ROUX  BLANC  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the 

*  In  the  original  ( Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  par  Cavdelli,  page  60,) 
un  bouquet  aromatique.  We  mention  this  to  show  the  imaginative 
style  of  writing  of  our  neighbours  :  un  bouquet  aromatique,  how 
superior  to  our  plain,  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  ! 

t  Blond,  a  bright,  light,  reddish  brown. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  —  CULLIS.  167 

preceding,  taking  care  to  employ  less  heat  in  order  that  it 
may  be  quite  white. 

Note.-—  Le  Cuisinier  Royal,  par  M.  M.  Viard  and 
Fouret,  directs  wheat  flour  to  be  employed  in  preference ; 
on  this  we  have  to  observe  that  it  is  very  possible  boiling 
wheat  flour  in  butter  for  two  or  three  hours  may  render 
it  more  suitable  for  the  human  stomach ;  but  boiling  but¬ 
ter  for  so  long  a  period  is  not  a  process  which  we  can 
recommend :  therefore,  we  neither  recommend  roux  nor 
roux  blanc  to  our  cooks  ;  such  sauces,  or  thickening  for 
sauces,  are  additions  to  dyspepsia. 

COULIS,  CULLIS,  or  Thick  Gravy.  Put  into  a 
stewpan  a  sufficient  quantity  of  roux  as  above  described ; 
when  it  is  hot  moisten  it  with  some  good  broth  or  beef- 
stock,  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  boil  it  gently  during 
an  hour  at  least,  taking  off  the  scum  and  then  adding  a 
bunch  of  parsley.  Strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  and  take 
off  the  fat,  set  it  by  in  an  earthen  pan ;  a  thin  skin  will  be 
formed  upon  the  surface  which  must  be  taken  off.  Use  the 
coulis  as  you  want  it. 

I  Note. — This  is  a  French  method.  * 

Cullis  is  made  in  various  ways  besides  the  preceding- ; 
and  sometimes  spices,  herbs,  onions,  and  other  condiments 
ire  added  to  it.  The  following  is  an  old  fashioned 

FAMILY  CULLIS.  Stir  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
lour,  or  rather  pure  starch,  in  a  stewpan,  till  the  flour  is  of 
i  fine  yellow,  then  add  some  broth,  a  little  gravy,  a  glass 
)f  white  wine,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  some  thyme,  a  bay-leaf, 
some  sweet  basil,  two  cloves,  some  nutmeg,  a  few  mushrooms, 
oepper,  and  salt;  stew  it  for  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire; 
skim  all  the  fat  off  and  strain  it  through  a  lawn  sieve. 

A  CULLIS  FOR  RAGOUTS  is  also  made  by  stewing 
lirectly,  veal,  ham,  carrots,  &c.  and  a  variety  of  condiments 
vith  broth  or  gravy. 

A  CULLIS  FOR  FISH  and  other  dishes  is  made 
rom  the  flesh  of  a  broiled  pike  skinned  and  separated  from 
he  bones  ;  to  which  are  added  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled 
ggs,  a  few  blanched  almonds,  all  beaten  together  into  a 
aste  in  a  mortar.  Take  now  onions,  parsnips,  and  carrots, 


*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  62. 


168 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


sliced  ;  and  stew  them  a  few  minutes,  in  butter,  adding  t 
them  a  little  broth.  Strain  the  liquid  into  another  sauct 
pan,  and  add  a  leek,  some  parsley,  sweet  basil,  some  cloves 
mushrooms,  truffles,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  ;  stew  thes 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes  and  add  the  prepared  paste  ;  ste’ 
the  whole  some  time  longer,  but  it  must  not  boil.  Strai 
through  a  hair  sieve. 

Note. — That  this  is  a  troublesome  and  unnecessary  prc 
cess  ;  besides,  other  fish  will  answer  the  purpose  quite  f 
well  as  pike ;  a  very  little  ingenuity  of  the  cook  wTill  invei 
a  simpler  and  better  dish.  The  eggs  may  be  advantag< 
ously  omitted,  and  pure  starch  added  in  their  place. 

A  SIMPLE  CULLIS  may  be  made  at  any  time  l 
boiling  some  pure  starch  in  good  gravy  for  a  few  minute 
and  if  you  choose  to  add  some  condiments  you  may  ;  tl 
cook  will  thus  be  saved  an  abundance  of  trouble,  and  tl 
dishes  to  which  the  cullis  is  appended  or  mixed  be  miu 
more  wholesome. 

BEEF  GPtAVY.  Cut  the  flesh  of  a  neck  of  beef 
other  lean  part  into  small  pieces  :  stew  it  in  as  much  wat 
as  will  cover  it,  with  an  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  what  oth 
condiments  you  may  choose  till  the  gravy  is  rich  ai 
good ;  you  may  add,  if  you  desire  to  colour  it,  sor 
crusts  of  bread  toasted  brown.  Some  will  mix  flour  wi 
the  meat  before  the  process  begins  ;  this  is  very  injudicioi 
after  it  is  completed  some  pure  starch,  if  you  please,  may 
added  to  thicken  it.  Let  it  be  strained  off. 

A  RICH  GRAVY  for  various  purposes.  Take  eqi 
parts  of  lean  beef,  veal,  and  mutton ;  cut  them  into  sm 
pieces,  to  which  add  a  slice  of  lean  bacon  or  ham,  sor 
slices  of  a  carrot,  mace,  cloves,  some  whole  pepper,  a  lap 
onion  sliced,  and  some  sweet  herbs.  Braise*  them  in 
stewpan,  covered  close,  over  a  slow  fire  for  six  or  eq 
minutes,  frequently  shaking’  them.  Pour  over  the  mixti 
boiling  water  more  than  sufficient  to  cover  it,  and  let  1 


*  This  verb,  to  braise,  is  not  to  be  found  in  our  Dictionari 
it  is  from  braise,  French,  live  coals,  and  implies  the  placing 
food  in  a  stewpan  over  a  fire  without  any  liquid  to  moderate 
heat ;  the  articles  subjected  to  braising  become,  of  course,  m 
or  less  browned  by  such  application  of  the  heat. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


169 


whole  stew  till  the  gravy  is  very  good  ;  take  off  the  fat  if  any 
appear ;  season  with  salt  and  strain  it  off. 

Note. — Some  thicken  this  gravy  with  flour  or  pure  starch, 
but  w’e  see  no  necessity  for  the  addition  of  either. 

A  BROWN  GRAVY  maybe  made  in  various  ways; 
but  if  it  be  coloured  by  an  article  which  will  rather 
injure  than  improve  its  quality,  it  must  be  bad.  We  agree 
with  Dr.  Kitchener  that  “  meat  cut  into  thin  slices, 
broiled  till  it  is  brown  and  then  stewed,”  makes  one  of  the 
best  and  certainly  the  most  wholesome  of  the  brown  sauces. 

GLAZE  is  employed  for  producing  a  shining  appearance 
over  some  dishes  after  they  are  dressed  ;  it  is,  in  fact,  little 
j  more  than  an  animal  jelly,  prepared  with  somewhat  less  care 
,4  than  the  jellies  which  are  designed  to  be  served  up  with 
h  elegance,  and  under  different  names.  Glaze  may  be 
^obtained  from  beef,  veal,  or  mutton,  as  well  as  from 
iCj poultry,  game,  &c, ;  it  is  most  commonly  made  from  the 
i  remains  of  meat,  poultry,  and  game,  whether  boiled  or 
jroasted.  The  following  is  considered  a  good  method  of 
^making  it.  Make  a  good  soup  by  stewing  the  remains  of 
.j^meat  or  poultry  or  both  in  water,  and  strain  it  through  a 
^sieve ;  set  it  again  upon  the  fire,  and  add  to  it  the  whites  of 
011jtwo  or  three  eggs  beaten  up  like  snow  ;  stir  the  mixture 
dll  it  boils  and  then  set  the  stewpan  upon  the  corner  of  the 
tove,  putting  some  fire  on  the  cover  of  it ;  after  a  few  mi¬ 
nutes,  when  the  eggs  are  set,  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
noistened  cloth.  Boil  it  down  over  a  good  fire,  taking  care 
0  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the 
tewpan.  Your  glaze  being  made,  pour  it  into  a  pot  for  use. 
Then  you  want  to  use  it  put  a  little  of  it  into  a  saucepan 
nd  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  when  it  is  hot,  it  must  be  ap- 
lied  lightly  over  the  dishes  which  you  desire  to  glaze  with 
feather.* 

Note. — That  glaze  may  be  made  of  the  liquor  in  which 
esh  meat  (such  as  a  leg  of  mutton)  has  been  boiled  by 
/■aporating  the  water  and  thus  i-educing-  it  to  a  proper  con- 
stence.  Some  will  add  a  variety  of  herbs,  condiments, 
ursad  roots,  such  as  carrots,  celery,  &c.  &c.  but  surely  these 

The  whites  of  eggs  are 


son! 
lit 
1  in 
1  ei 
fixtn 
let 


.acing 
erate 
St)  ® 1 


e  useless,  not  to  say  improper, 
isigned  to  clarify  the  glaze. 

*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  par  Cardelli,  page  64. 


170 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


CURRIE  POWDER,  when  genuine,  is  imported  from 
the  East  Indies ;  hut  the  cupidity  of  trade  has  produced  in¬ 
numerable  imitations  of  the  Indian  article.  We  have  exa¬ 
mined  a  great  many  recipes  for  this  compound  condiment, 
in  most  of  which  turmeric  root  and  cayenne  pepper  enter ; 
the  last  is  not,  we  believe,  in  genuine  East  Indian  currie 
powder ;  the  first  appears  to  be  a  constant  ingredient ;  but, 
except  for  imparting  a  yellow  colour,  we  do  not  know  its 
further  use  ;  its  taste  is  sickening  and  disagreeable.  Almost 
every  modern  English  Cookery  Book  has,  therefore,  its 
peculiar  currie  powder  :  it  is  not  our  intention  to  add  to  the 
number.  Dr.  Kitchener  says,  that  the  following  “  ap¬ 
proximates  to  the  Indian  powder  so  exactly  that  it  has 
been  pronounced  a  perfect  copy  of  the  original.” 

“  Take  coriander  seeds  and  turmeric-root  each  three 
ounces ;  black  pepper,  mustard-seeds,  and  ginger-root,  of 
each  one  ounce ;  allspice  and  lesser  cardamom  seeds,  of 
each  half  an  ounce ;  cummin  seeds  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Let  the  whole  be  finely  pulverized  and  then  kept  in  a  bottle 
well  stopped.”* 

We  may  just  add  that,  besides  the  ingredients  above- 
mentioned,  some  employ  grains  of  paradise  instead  of  the 
lesser  cardamoms,  a  cheaper  and,  perhaps,  equally  useful 
stimulant.  Others  again  will  have  in  it  mace,  cinnamon, 
nutmegs,  and  cloves  ;  and  others  the  essential  oils  of  the 
three  last  instead  of  the  spices  themselves  ;  the  oils  must 
be  added  to  the  other  ingredients  after  they  are  pow¬ 
dered.  Others  again  have  in  it  black  tamarinds;  others 
have  a  considerable  proportion  of  rice  ;  and  some  will  havt 
in  it  the  nauseating  seeds  of  fenugreek.  One  only  wonder; 
that,  as  assafoetida  is  employed  by  the  Persians  as  a  condi 
ment,  it  has  not  been  added,  by  some  of  our  epicures,  ii 
the  place  of  garlic  to  their  curries  !+  The  French  appea 
to  consider  turmeric ,  allspice,  rhubarb,  and  nutmegX  a 

*  Cook’s  Oracle,  p.  359. 

t  One  of  our  council  of  cooks  informs  us  that  many  years  sine 
she  gave  a  splendid  entertainment ;  among  the  dishes  served  u 
was  an  Indian  currie,  the  disagreeable  smell  of  which  pervaded  th 
whole  house  and  very  much  annoyed  her  guests — it  was  produce 
by  the  garlic  used  in  it ;  notwithstanding  this,  many  of  the  pari 
partook  of  the  dish,  a  rabbit:  such  is  the  potency  of  fashion  ! 

f  Cuisinier  Royal,  pp.  48,  72,  128. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


171 


the  only  necessary  ingredients  for  currie-sauce  besides  salt. 
But  they  do  not  seem  partial  to  curries.  Mrs.  Dodds  re¬ 
commends  “  one  teaspoonful  of  white  ginger,  two  of  cori¬ 
ander-seeds,  half  a  one  of  turmeric-root,  and  a  quarter 
_°f  a  one  of  cayenne-pepper,”  all  in  powder:  this 
is  one  of  the  simplest  and  perhaps  the  best  of  currie 
powders.  Mrs.  Glasse  has  only  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
turmeric-root,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  ginger  and  pepper, 
all  beaten  together.  We  may  further  add,  that  all  the  in¬ 
gredients  for  currie-powder  should  be  purchased  whole,  and 
be  reduced  to  powder  by  the  cook,  or  the  chances  are*  that 
most  of  them  will  be  more  or  less  spurious — turmeric,  in 
particular,  is  very  subject  to  an  adulteration  when  sold  in 
powder,  which  is  not  readily  detected  by  the  inexperienced. 

Of  currie-powder  we  have  only  to  say  that  we  cannot 
recommend  even  the  best;  the  reader  must,  therefore, 
judge  of  this  condiment  for  himself. 

For  the  application  of  curi'ie-powder  to  several  dishes  see 
e  Curries,  page  156. 

ESSENCE  Oh  HAM.  This  condiment  may  be  ob¬ 
tained  from  an  undressed  ham  or  from  a  ham  which  has 
been  boiled ;  the  first  will  give  the  most  perfect  essence  of 
the  meat ;  the  last  may  be  the  most  economical.  Take  one 
pound  of  the  undressed  lean  of  a  ham,  (of  course  it  ought 


to  be  of  a  good  flavour,)  cut  it  into  small  pieces  and  put  it 
iSl  into  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it ;  let  it  sirn- 
'■imer  till  it  is  about  three  parts  done,  then  add  to  it  one  pint 
ri  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  tender ;  strain  it 
iTi  through  a  sieve  and  take  off  all  the  fat ;  then  boil  it  till  it 
®  >s  reduced  to  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint,  and  when  cold  put 
‘“ft  into  a  bottle  for  use. 

Note.— There  is  no  necessity  for  any  additional  condi- 
ea  nent,  in  the  preparation  of  this  essence  ;  some  will  never- 
J  Iheless  add  to  it  shalots  and  bay  leaves  ;  others  are  yet 
•nore  liberal  in  their  additions,  ordering  not  only  carrots, 
;iK  >arsnips,  and  onions,  but  veal  gravy,  mushrooms,  truffles,' 
i  tiorels,  cloves,  parsley,  basil,  &c.  &c.  ;  a  most  injudicious 
‘Jfompound  ! 

I  HAM  SAUCE.  Mince  first  and  then  beat  into  a  pulp 
fterwards  the  lean  part  of  a  dressed  ham  ;  stew  it  over  a 


low  fire  in 


good  gravy 


sufficient  to  cover 


it  for  half  an 

i  2 


172 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


hour ;  then  add  some  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  some  beef 
gravy  for  half  an  hour  more.  Let  it  be  covered  close  during 
its  stewing:  when  done,  if  there  be  any  fat  on  it  let  it  be 
taken  oft’;  strain  the  sauce  through  a  hair  sieve. 

Note. — Care  must  be  taken  in  stewing  the  ham  that  it 
is  stirred  often,  or  it  will  stick  to  the  bottom  of'  the  stewpan 
and  become  burnt :  a  water  bath  is  a  more  tedious  but  a 
more  certain  method  of  moderating  the  heat  in  the  prepara¬ 
tion  of  this  sauce. — If  the  lean  remains  of  a  boiled  ham 
should  be  quite  good,  they  may  be  economically  converted 
into  this  sauce. 

EGG  SAUCE.  Chop  eggs,  boiled  five  or  more  minutes, 
moderately  fine,  and  mix  them  with  melted  butter:  make 
the  sauce  hot  and  then  serve  it  up. 

SAUCES  FOR  A  HARE.  Half  a  pint  of  cream  and 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted  together  in  a  gentle  heat. 

Thicken  some  good  gravy  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  or  starch,  by  a  gentle  heat. 

Currant  jelly  warmed  and  served  up  in  a  boat,  or  in 
lumps  cold  on  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

Red  wine  and  sugar  thus  prepared :  half  a  pint  of  the 
wine  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  simmered  together 
in  a  covered  saucepan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

See  also  hare  roasted,  jugged,  &c. 

ONION  SAUCE  is  prepared  many  ways:  like  melted 
butter,  most  cooks  have  a  method  of  making  onion  sauce 
of  their  own  ;  it  is  our  duty,  however,  to  advert  to  principles 
in  the  preparation  of  this  sauce.  Every  body  is  aware  that 
the  pungency  of  onions,  leeks,  garlic,  and  others  of  the 
same  genus  of  plants,  arises  from  a  volatile  essence  which 
is  dissipated  by  even  a  moderate  heat  and  more  especially 
by  long  boiling  in  water.  Again,  almost  every  one  is  aware 
that  onions  in  their  raw  state  may  be  eaten  by  many  per 
sons  with  impunity,  nay  with  advantage,  while  to  others 
they  are  extremely  offensive,  and  produce  when  eaten  con¬ 
siderable  disturbance  of  the  digestive  functions.  In  pre¬ 
paring  onions,  therefore,  for  sauce  as  well  as  to  be  other¬ 
wise  eaten,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  cook  to  know  th( 
taste  and  wishes  of  the  master  and  mistress  of  a  family 
before  she  can  know  how  to  prepare  onion  sauce  that  may 
be  agreeable  to  them.  ' 


ONION  SAUCE. 


173 


I 


1 

a! 

n 

le 

er 


jd 

ce 

is 

it 

cl 

"I 

an  i 

er 1 

et 

m 

ire 

ret 

ti 

al 

iJ 


If  the  onion  sauce  be  desired  to  contain  a  strong  and 
pungent  taste  of  the  onion,  the  onions  may  be  boiled  in 
water,  after  being-  peeled  and  quartered,  till  they  are  tender, 
then  chopped  fine  upon  a  clean  chopping-  board,  and  be  re¬ 
turned  ag-ain  to  the  saucepan  and  water,  to  which  may  be 
added  some  butter  and  a  little  flour  or  pure  starch,  and  sim¬ 
mered  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  the  whole  being  thus,  and 
also  by  beating  with  a  wooden  spoon,  reduced  to  a  smooth 
pulp.  Some  will  prefer  passing  it  through  a  coarse  hair 
sieve  or  colander  :  some  too  will  add  cream  to  it.  It  must 
he  seasoned  with  salt  of  course. 

If,  however,  you  desire  a  more  mild  onion  sauce,  you 
must  boil  the  onions  for  some  time  in  two  or  three  different 
waters,  throw-ing  all  the  waters  away,  and  when  the  onions 
are  tender,  they  must  be  chopped  as  directed  above,  passed 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  or  colander,  and  then  be  mixed 
with  sufficient  butter  and  pure  stai-ch  to  render  it,  being- 
seasoned  with  salt,  at  once  smooth,  elegant,  and  mild.  The 
cook  will,  in  general,  find  this  last  method  the  best :  for 
such  sauce  will  be  more  agreeable  to  most  persons  than  the 
strong  one  made  according  to  our  first  directions.  If  you 
like  the  expense  of  cream  it  may  be  added  to  it ;  but 
cream ,  be  assured,  will  not  add  to  the  wholesomeness  of  your 
sauce. 

Note. — The  most  delicate  sauce  is  made  from  the  rvhitest 
onions ;  some  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  after  peeling  and 
quartering  them  for  twenty  or  more  minutes  ;  but  there  is 
no  necessity  for  this  previous  marinade. 

Some,  in  order  to  have  the  onion  sauce  whiter,  will  boil 
the  onions  in  milk  and  water  instead  of  plain  water ;  but 
what  necessity  can  there  be  for  such  art  ? 

A  BROWN  ONION  SAUCE  maybe  made  by  braising 
finely  sliced  onions  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter  in  a 
stewpan  till  they  become  brown  ;  add  next  some  good  broth 
and  stew  the  onions  in  it  twenty  or  more  minutes  ;  to  this 
you  must  add  some  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  or  starch  to 
make  the  whole  of  a  proper  consistence ;  strain  it  through 
a  coarse  sieve. 

Note. — You  will  here  have  a  much  more  pungent  onion 
sauce  than  either  of  the  preceding ;  some "  will  add  to  it 

t- 


174  SAUCES. 

celery,  and  claret  or  other  wine,  and  lemon  juice  or  vinegar; 
but  these  additaments  are  not  necessary. 

SHALOT  SAUCE  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to 
onion  sauce ;  but  it  is  usually  made  much  more  expeditious¬ 
ly,  and  simply  thus  :  stew  five  or  six  shalots,  chopped  fine, 
in  four  ounces  of  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  for  a  few  minutes  ;  some  say  only  one 
minute,  but  this  will  be  found  too  short  a  period  to  impart 
the  taste  of  the  shalot  to  the  liquids.  Some  add  lemon- 
peel  to  this  sauce. 

GARLIC  SAUCE  may  be  made  in  a  similar  manner  to 
that  of  shalot  sauce ;  but  the  Essence  of  Garlic,  see  page 
164,  is  a  more  elegant  preparation,  and  may  be  mixed  with 
melted  butter  for  a  sauce  at  pleasure. 

MINT  SAUCE.  Chop  some  green  leaves  of  spear 
mint  very  fine,  to  which  add  vinegar  and  sugar ;  some  will 
have  vinegar  only. 

CAPER  SAUCE.  Add  your  capers  which  you  design 
for  sauce  to  melted  butter,  made  with  butter  and  pure 
starch,  as  directed  in  page  165  ;  it  is  usual  to  mince  some  of 
them  small ,  and  to  cut  others  only  in  two  ;  some  will  also 
add  a  few  whole  ones  ;  the  whole  should  be  made  tho¬ 
roughly  hot,  but  not  boiled  in  the  melted  butter.  Note.  — 
Some  will  add  parsley  and  bread  to  this  sauce  ;  but  both 
are  unnecessary. 

GOOSEBERRY  SAUCE.  Stew  green  gooseberries, 
freed  from  their  tops  and  tails,  in  water  till  they  are  tender  ; 
strain  off  the  water  and  beat  them  into  a  pulp  with  a 
spoon ;  add  now  either  melted  butter  or  some  sugar,  or 
both ;  but  some  serve  it  up  with  only  butter  or  sugar ;  and 
some  will  add  grated  lemon-peel  and  a  little  ginger  ;  others 
mix  in  a  little  juice  of  sorrel;  but  the  mashed  gooseberries 
with  a  little  sugar  are  generally  preferred. 

APPLE  SAUCE.  Stew  good  boiling  apples,  pared, 
cored,  and  sliced,  in  a  little  water ;  cover  the  apples  during 
the  process  with  the  parings  ;  when  they  are  nearly  done 
you  may  put  in,  if  you  please,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel  and  a 
little  grated  ginger  :  the  last  will  give  the  sauce  a  very 
agreeable  flavour.  When  they  are  quite  tender  beat  them 
into  a  pulp.  Some  add  to  this  butter  and  sugar,  but 
neither  is  necessary. 


SAUCES. 


175 


BREAD  SAUCE.  Soak  some  crumbs  of  bread  in 
milk  ;  when  the  bread  lias  absorbed  as  much  milk  as  it  will 
take,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an  onion  quartered,  a 
little  mace  or  allspice,  and  a  few  peppercorns  tied  in  a  cloth. 
Boil  them  for  a  few  minutes  so  as  to  scald  the  bread  ;  take 
out  the  onions,  &c.  and  beat  the  bread  into  a  pulp,  to 
which  add  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  simmer  the  whole  toge¬ 
ther. 

Note. — Instead  of  milk  some  use  water ;  others  will  add 
to  it  cream  or  some  good  broth.  This  sauce  is  used  with 
game,  poultry,  and  roast  pork. 

BREAD  CRUMBS  BRAISED.  Braise  stale  bread 
crumbs,  previously  reduced  very  small  by  being  grated,  or 
otherwise  made  into  a  coarse  powder,  with  a  small  quantity 
of  butter,  and  keep  them  moving  about  till  they  become  of 
a  yellowish  brown. 

Note. — These  are  sometimes  called  fried  bread  crmnbs ; 
they  are  served  up  with  such  dishes  as  turkies,  pheasants, 
partridges,  grouse,  &c.  as  also  with  roasted  sweetbreads. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE  is  made  several  ways;  the  fol¬ 
lowing  is  an  old  fashioned  method,  and  we  believe  one  of 
i  the  best.  Stew  two  slices  of  ham,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  bay 
leaf,  and  two  sliced  onions,  a  little  broth,  two  spoonfuls  of 
the  Family  Cullis,  page  167,  and  one  of  tarragon  or  chili 
vinegar,  for  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire ;  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  pour  it  into  your  sauce  boat. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE  A  LA  FRANCOISES  Mix 
together  a  glass  of  broth  and  a  glass  of  white  wine  ;  boil 
them  half  away,  and  add  some  parsley,  shalots,  and  other 
condiments  which  you  like ;  season  it,  and  boil  for  a  few 
minutes;  at  the  instant  of  serving  it  up  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  a  little  oil. 

WHITE  SAUCE. f  Mix  -well  together  a  little  butter 
1  and  flour  or  starch ;  add  salt  and  water  in  sufficient  quan- 
|  tity ;  place  it  over  a  gentle  fire  in  a  saucepan,  shaking  it 
I  constantly;  when  it  has  attained  a  proper  consistence  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  some  vinegar,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Note . — Some  will  add  pepper  and  other  condiments  to 

*  Manual  de  Cuisinier ,  p.  71. 
t  Ibid.  p.  07. 


176 


SAUCES. 


this  sauce ;  and  some  of  our  English  cookery-books  order 
crumb  of  bread,  some  good  meat  broth  instead  of  water, 
with  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  eggs,  cream,  mushrooms, 
&c. :  others,  again,  make  a  white  sauce  with  a  scrag  of 
veal  and  the  necks  of  fowls,  or  bits  of  mutton  or  veal 
boiled  in  water,  with  a  variety  of  condiments,  such  as 
celery,  lemon,  and  sweet  herbs ;  butter  rolled  in  flour  is 
then  added  to  thicken  it ;  pickled  mushrooms,  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  cream  and  a  little  nutmeg.  A  pretty  considera¬ 
ble  dose  of  indigestible  materials. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  A  LA  BOURGEOISE.*  Cut 

ten  or  twelve  tomatos  (they  are  commonly  called  love  apples 
in  this  country)  into  quarters ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  four  or  flve  onions  cut  into  slices,  a  pinch  of  parsley, 
a  little  thyme,  a  clove,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ; 
boil  the  whole  together,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  stick 
to  the  stewpan,  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  strain  your 
sauce  through  a  hair  sieve  ;  take  care  that  it  is  properly 
seasoned  with  salt. 

Note,  that  this  sauce  is  good  with  meat,  fish,  and 
vegetables. 

SAUCE  TOMATE  A  LTTALIENNE.f  Cut  five  or 
six  onions  into  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
little  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  and  twelve  or  fifteen  love  apples ; 
take  also  some  good  broth,  or  a  large  piece  of  butter,  salt, 
a  little  allspice,  and  a  small  quantity  of  powdered  turmeric 
root.  %  Set  the  whole  over  the  fire,  taking  care  to  stir  it 
from  time  to  time  that  it  may  not  stick  to  the  stewpan. 
When  you  see  that  it  becomes  a  little  thick  strain  it  off ; 
but  do  not  let  it  be  too  clear. 

Note. — We  obey  the  directions  in  the  original  French; 
but  surely  the  love  apples  ought  to  be  quartered  or  other¬ 
wise  cut  into  pieces  before  being  stewed.  The  turmeric 
being  added  to  it  would  seem  to  make  it  a  sort  of  currie. — 
See  Currie  Powder,  page  170. 

*  Cuisinier  Royal ,  par  MM.  Viard  et  Fouret,  p.  45. 

-f-  Ibid.  p.  44 

|  In  the  original  “  un  peu  de  poudre  de  safran  d’lnde  ou  terra- 
merita.”  This  has  been  translated  by  a  cotemporary,  “  a  little 
India  saffron.”  Does  any  mere  Englishman  know  that  by  India 
saffron  is  meant  tarmeric  root,  called  sometimes  on  the  continent 
very  erroneously,  terra-merita  ? 


SAUCES. 


177 


TOMATO  SAUCE.  Another  way *  Cut  six  love 
apples  in  half  and  press  out  the  water  which  they 
contain ;  put  them  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sauce  tournee 
(see  the  next  article),  to  which  add  the  fourth  of  an  onion, 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  small  quantity  (a  spoonful)  of 
vinegar ;  boil  the  whole  well  together ;  strain  it ;  take  off 
the  fat,  and  reduce  it  to  a  proper  consistence. 

Note. — Some  bake  the  love  apples,  and  when  they  are 
quite  soft  take  out  the  pulp  and  mix  it  with  vinegar  and 
other  condiments. 

VELOUTE  OU  SAUCE  TOURNEE.f  Mince  very 
fine  many  mushrooms,  some  parsley  and  shalots  ;  braise 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  butter,  to  which  add  a 
little  flour,  and  moisten  with  some  good  broth  or  a  glass 
of  white  wine ;  let  it  boil  slowly,  and  carefully  remove 
the  fat. 

Note. — This  sauce  is  sometimes  made  with  lean  ham, 
and  other  animal  substances,  instead  of  using  good  broth  ; 
veal  or  beef-steak  may  be  also  employed.  The  condiments 
maybe  as  above,  or  what  other  you  may  choose. 

SWEET  SAUCES  may  be  made  in  several  ways. 
One  is  by  simply  warming  currant  jelly,  so  that  it  may 
become  liquid,  and  sending  it  up  to  table  in  a  boat ;  to  this 
some  will  add  a  glass  of  port  wine.  Another  is  made  by 
dissolving  some  sugar  in  warm  water,  adding  to  the  mix¬ 
ture  some  white  or  red  wine,  and  grated  nutmeg,  or  finely 
powdered  cinnamon ;  the  whole  must  be  made  boiling  hot 
in  a  covered  vessel ;  or  you  may  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
wine  without  any  water,  and  then  add  the  spice.  The 
quantities  of  all  these  ingredients  must  depend  upon  the 
cook’s  discretion. 

Note.  —  Lump  sugar  will  make  the  sauce  more  delicate. 
SAUCES  FOR  VENISON  may  be  either  currants 
boiled  till  they  become  tender  in  water,  to  which  must  be 
added  some  bread  crumbs,  a  few  cloves,  port  wine,  and  a 
little  butter ;  boil  the  whole  gently  in  a  covered  vessel  a 
few  minutes.  The  cloves  should  be  taken  out  before 
serving  up  the  sauce. 

Or,  red  wine  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pint,  and  two 


*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier ,  p.  73. 


t  Ibid.  p.  74. 
I  3 


178 


SAUCES. 


ounces  of  sugar,  simmered  together  for  five  or  six  minutes 
in  a  covered  vessel. 

Or,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  four  ounces  of  sugar 
simmered  together  for  a  few  minutes.  This  acid  sauce  is 
by  many  preferred  to  the  sweet  sauces. 

Note. — As  in  other  sweet  sauces,  lump  sugar  will  make 
the  sauce  more  delicate. 

Or,  currant-jelly  sent  up  cold;  or,  melted  and  sent  up 
in  a  boat. 

SAUCE  ROBERT.  Cut  onions  into  small  pieces  and 
braise  them  with  some  butter  in  a  stewpan  over  a  good  fire 
till  they  become  of  a  bright  brown  ;  add  now  a  small  quan¬ 
tity  of  broth,  some  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper ;  simmer  the 
whole  together  for  a  few  minutes.  At  the  moment  of 
serving  it  up  mix  in  with  it  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ready¬ 
made  mustard;  but  do  not  boil  it  afterwards.  If  any  fat 
appears  it  should  be  taken  off. 

Note. — In  the  original*  some  flour  is  ordered  to  be  mixed 
with  this  sauce  ;  but  it  is  certainly  not  necessary.  Instead 
of  vinegar  or  broth  simple  water  may  be  employed.  The 
juice  of  a  lemon  will  improve  it ;  some  will  add  tarragon  or 
other  flavoured  vinegar.  This  sauce  has  been  long  employ¬ 
ed  in  this  country  for  made  dishes,  such  as  roasted  pork, 
beef  steaks,  &c.  &c. 

SAUCE  FOR  ANY  ROAST  MEAT.  Wash  clean 
an  anchovy,  strip  the  flesh  from  the  bone  and  mince  it  fine, 
to  which  add  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a  little  gravy,  a  shalot 
cut  small,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. f  Stew  the  whole 
together  in  a  covered  vessel  for  fifteen  or  more  minutes  ; 
strain  it  off  and  mix  it  with  the  gravy  which  runs  from  the 
meat. 

THE  SAUCE  INDIENNE  of  the  French  consists  es¬ 
sentially  of  good  gravy  mixed  with  powdered  turmeric  and 
allspice;  in  short  it  is  a  sort  of  currie  sauce.  See  Currie 
Powder  above. 

SICILIAN  SAUCE  is  made  by  stewing  bruised  corian- 

*  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  55. 

t  The  cook  should  know  that  the  flesh  as  well  as  the  bones  of 
flfih  contain  lime,  and  that  stewing  them  in  acids  will  in  part  at 
least,  if  not  wholly,  destroy  their  acidity ;  it  is  best  therefore  to 
add  the  acid  to  the  stiuce  just  before  it  is  served  up. 


SAUCES. 


179 


der  seeds  and  cloves  with  good  gravy  and  essence  of  ham ; 
to  which  some  add  garlic,  celery,  basil,  bay-leaves,  &c. 
But  we  presume  simpler  and  better  sauces  may  be  chosen 
from  our  copious  catalogue  for  both  fowls  and  butcher’s 
meat. 

SAUCES  FOR  A  PIG  are  made  in  various  ways  ;  the 
following  may  be  employed  at  the  pleasure  of  the  cook  ; 
they  are  essentially  those  given  by  Mrs.  Glasse  and  most 
of  the  writers  on  cookery  to  the  present  time.  We  have 
no  wish  to  invent  new  ones  for  this  by  no  means,  at  any 
time,  a  very  wholesome  dish. 

Dried  sage  powdered  and  mixed  with  the  gravy  and 
melted  butter. 

Bread  sauce  as  prepared  above,  page  175. 

Currants  boiled  in  a  little  gravy,  a  glass  of  wine,  and 

(some  sugar.  A  glass  of  currant  jelly  may  be  served  up 
with  it. 

Beef  gravy,  the  gravy  which  comes  from  the  pig,  a  bit 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour  or  rather  starch,  and  some  catchup, 
all  boiled  together  for  a  few  minutes. 

The  brains  of  the  pig  chopped  fine,  with  an  anchovy 
minced,  a  good  piece  of  butter,  flour  or  starch  to  thicken 
it,  with  the  gravy  from  the  pig,  all  boiled  together  for  a 
few  minutes,  with  a  slice  of  lemon,  some  caper  liquor,  and 

(J,  j  £ 

SAUCE  FOR  A  GREEN  GOOSE  may  be  made  with 
melted  butter,  a  spoonful  of  sorrel  juice,  a  little  sugar,  and 
a  few  stewed  gooseberies. 

A  SAUCE  FOR  A  FULL  GROWN  GOOSE  may 
be  good  gravy ;  but  apple  sauce  is  always  its  accompani- 

;  ment. 

SAUCES  FOR  A  ROASTED  TURKEY  should  be 
good  gravy  in  the  dish,  with  either  bread,  parsley,  and 
butter,  or  egg  sauce. 

A  SAUCE  FOR  A  BOILED  TURKEY  may  be  made 
thus  :  take  the  clear  liquor  of  oysters  (the  quantity  must 
depend  upon  the  quantity  of  sauce  which  you  require)  and 
boil  it  for  a  few  minutes  with  some  gravy,  a  little  lemon 
pickle,  butter,  and  flour  or  starch  to  thicken  it;  some  will 
add  also  a  little  thick  cream ;  then  put  in  the  oysters  and 
make  them  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  boil. 


180 


SAUCES. 

Or  bread  sauce  mixed  with  melted  butter.  See  Bread 
Sauce ,  page  175. 

SAUCE  FOR  FOWLS.  The  best  sauce  for  fowls, 
either  roast  or  boiled,  is  a  good  gravy  made  by  boiling  the 
heads,  necks,  feet,  and  gizzard  in  water ;  the  gizzard  may 
be  notched,  and  after  being  used  for  the  gravy  it  can  be 
served  up  under  the  wing  and  will  be  more  tender  for 
eating ;  onion,  &c.  to  season  and  toasted  bread  to  colour  it 
of  course  ;  a  little  lean  beef  may  be  usefully  boiled  with 
the  rest ;  or  parsley  and  butter  may  be  employed  instead  of 
the  gravy;  or  for  boiled  fowls  oyster  sauce;  or  white 
sauce. 

SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  DUCKS  may  be  some  good 
gravy  with  a  relish  of  sage  and  onions  if  you  choose. 

SAUCE  FOR  WILD  DUCKS,  TEAL,  WIDGEON, 
and  ?nost  if  not  all  the  duck  tribe,  may  be  veal  or  other 
good  gravy,  properly  seasoned,  with  toasted  bread  to  colour 
it  ;  it  will  be  improved  by  the  juice  of  Seville  oranges  and  a 
little  red  wine  ;  but  care  must  be  taken  to  boil  the  whole 
with  the  wine  in  a  covered  vessel. 

SAUCE  FOR  PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  and 
other  similar  game,  should  be  good  gravy  in  the  dish  and 
bread  sauce  in  a  boat. 

SAUCE  FOR  LARKS  and  similar  birds  may  he  good 
gravy  and  bread  sauce. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  DUCKS  or  RABBITS. 
Onion  sauce  is  generally  considered  the  best  for  both  these 
dishes  and  more  especially  for  the  last. 

SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  MUTTON  is  universally  onion 

sauce. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  MUTTON,  parsley  and  but¬ 
ter;  but  our  epicures  will,  perhaps,  ask  for  some  more 
stimulating;  our  preceding  catalogue  will  furnish  several 

such. 

OYSTER  SAUCE  is  made  in  various  ways.  One  of 
the  most  simple  and  perhaps  the  best  is  the  following  :  take 
a  pint  of  oysters  and  preserve  their  liquor ;  put  the  liquor 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  to 
which  add  some  pure  starch  ;  boil  gently  together  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  then  put  in  the  oysters  previously  washed  and 
freed  from  their  beards ;  simmer  the  whole  gently  for  about 
five  minutes  more. 


SAUCES. 


181 

Note. — Some  will  add  various  condiments  to  this  sauce, 
as  Indian  soy,  catchup,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice, 
spice,  black  pepper,  cream,  &c.  but  they  are  not  necessary  ; 
the  only  addition  of  which  we  can  approve  is  some  good  gravy, 
which  may  be  sometimes  advantageously  added  to  oyster  sauce . 

Oyster  sauce  is  used  upon  various  occasions  ;  with  beef 
steaks,  boiled  fowls,  &c.  &c. 

MUSCLE  and  COCKLE  SAUCE  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way  as  oyster  sauce  ;  and  if  you  choose,  with  condi¬ 
ments;  but  we  do  not  recommend  either  of  them. 

QUIN  SAUCE.  Mr.  Quin,  the  celebrated  comedian, 
from  his  being  a  well  known  bon  vivant,  has  had  the  credit 
of  the  invention  of  this  sauce ;  but,  as  it  is  given  under 
various  forms,  we  suppose  it  is  one  of  those  ruses  de  com¬ 
merce  to  which  we  are  indebted  for  so  many  other  dishes  as 
■well  as  sauces.  For  every  useful  purpose  the  essence  d’as- 
sortiment,  in  page  163,  will  answer  as  well  as  any  of 
those  described  as  Quin  sauce  in  our  cookery  books  ;  but 
as  anchovies  and  walnut  pickle  are  in  most  of  the  Quin 
sauces,  both  may  be  added  at  the  pleasure  of  the  cook. 
Butter  of  anchovies  will,  of  course,  supply  readily  the  first 
ingredient. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE  is  made  in  various  ways  : 
some  order  it  to  be  boiled  in  good  gravy  with  other  condi¬ 
ments  ;  but  if  you  desire  it  in  its  best  state  it  should  not  be 
boiled  at  all,  but  be  mixed  after  being  grated  fine  (with  the 
gravy  or  other  liquid  which  you  choose  to  employ)  in  large 
quantity,  so  as  to  impart  to  it  the  decided  pungency  for 
which  this  useful  and  valuable  condiment  is  known;  it 
may  be  made  hot  in  the  gravy ;  but  we  again  repeat  that 
it  should  on  no  account  be  boiled  ;  and  we  advise,  besides, 
that  no  other  condiments  be  mixed  with  this  sauce,  except 
i  perhaps  a  little  vinegar. 

SORREL  SAUCE.  Chop  fine  the  tender  leaves,  &c. 
of  sorrel  that  have  been  previously  well  washed ;  stew 
them  with  some  butter  till  the  moisture  is  nearly  gone  ; 
then  add  some  cullis  or  other  good  gravy ;  simmer  the  w'hole 
■together  till  it  is  of  a  proper  consistence. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE  may  be  made  in  many  ways; 
some  will  make  it  with  dried  and  powdered  mushrooms  and 
:  butter,  &c. ;  and  as  dried  mushrooms  in  powder  will  keep 


182 


SAUCES. 


for  a  long  time  if  deposited  in  a  glass  bottle  well  stopped, 
this  offers  a  ready  method  of  making  mushroom  sauce  at 
any  time ;  the  more  usual  way,  however,  is  to  stew  fresh 
mushrooms  cut  into  pieces  with  a  little  salt,  mace,  and 
butter,  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  adding  some  very  good 
gravy  and  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  to  this  some  will  add  cream 
and  the  yolks  of  eggs  ;  but  neither  of  which  do  we  recom¬ 
mend. 

CELERY  SAUCE  may  he  made  by  simmering  the 
sliced  roots  in  some  good  gravy  till  they  are  nearly  tender, 
and  then  adding  melted  butter  or  some  white  sauce  to  it ; 
but  a  far  more  elegant  method  is  to  mix  the  finely  powdered 
seeds  of  celery  or  smallage,  in  a  pretty  large  proportion, 
with  melted  butter  and  nothing  else.  Such  simple  sauces 
are  much  better  than  those  with  a  variety  of  condiments, 
and  which  much  boiling  will  certainly  greatly  injure  if  it 
do  not  entirely  spoil. 

Note. — The  attempt  to  make  a  sauce  white  by  such  ad¬ 
ditions  as  cream  and  other  unwholesome  articles  should  not 
be  countenanced  by  any  master  or  mistress  of  a  family ; 
surely  there  can  be  no  necessity  to  disguise  the  natural 
-colour  of  any  of  our  food,  whether  consisting  of  sauces  or 
of  substantial  dishes,  more  especially  by  unwholesome 
means.  Of  a  piece  with  such  attempts  at  imparting-  an 
artificial  colour  to  sauces  is  that  of  directing  in  regard  to 

FISH  SAUCES  that  “  they  should  be  of  the  thickness 
of  light  batter  that  they  may  adhere  to  the  fish.”  A  more 
silly  direction  was  never  given  ;  one  of  the  best  and  simplest 
condiments,  or  sauces  if  you  please,  for  fish,  is  vinegar, 
the  absurdity  of  thickening  which  will  be  at  once  manifest. 
Of  the  impropriety  of  employing  xvheat  flour  to  thicken 
any  sauce  we  have  again  and  again  spoken,  but  we  must 
once  more  lift  up  our  voice  ;  on  no  account  employ  wheat 
flour  for  fish  sauce  ;  but  if  you  determine  to  have  it  thick, 
pure  starch. 

A  SAUCE  FOR  ALMOST  ANY  FISH  may  be  made 
with  mutton  or  veal  gravy  stewed  with  a  minced  anchovy 
and  a  little  catchup,  to  which  you  may  add  a  glass  of 
white  wine;  some  will  put  in  also  a  little  of  the  liquor 
which  drains  from  the  fish  after  it  is  dressed  ;  thicken  with 
starch ;  you  may,  if  you  have  them,  enrich  it  with  a  few 


SAUCES. 


183 

oysters  or  shrimps.  Vinegar  is  also  an  excellent  condi¬ 
ment  for  most  fish  ;  others  like  cayenne  pepper ;  and  some 
prefer  catchup. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE  is  made  in  a  variety  of  ways ; 
some  make  it  with  the  spawn  only,  pounded  fine  and  mixed 
with  melted  butter,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  salt,  and  this 
is  perhaps  the  most  elegant  way  :  others  pound  the  meat 
and  the  spawn  together  and  mix  them  with  melted  butter,  a 
little  gravy,  salt,  and  lemon  juice.  Of  course,  in  both, 
the  lobster  must  be  previously  boiled  and  fit  for  eating. 

Note. — Some  add  anchovies  to  this  sauce ;  others  catch¬ 
up  :  ome  do  not  pound  the  meat  of  the  lobster  but  cut 
it  into  dice  ;  this  we  do  not  approve. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE  is  made  with  shrimps  fresh  pulled 
and  melted  butter,  to  which  is  added  a  little  lemon  juice  ; 
a  gentle  simmer  altogether  for  about  five  minutes  will  be 
enough. 

Note. — To  have  this  sauce  most  strongly  impregnated 
with  the  flavour  of  the  shrimps,  the  shells,  being  washed 
f  clean,  should  be  boiled  in  water  for  twenty  or  more  minutes, 
the  water  strained  off,  and  the  butter  with  a  little  starch 
being-  melted  in  it,  the  shrimps  should  be  added  to  it.  Some 
use  also  cayenne  pepper  and  anchovy  liquor  in  making 
this  sauce — they  are  not  necessary;  at  most  tables  cayenne 
pepper  is  to  be  obtained  by  being  asked  for ;  indeed  it  is 
!  so  useful  a  condiment  that  we  advise  every  body  to  keep  it. 
We  have  not  here  specified  the  quantity  of  water  in  which 
the  shrimp  shells  are  to  be  boiled,  for  the  best  of  all  possi¬ 
ble  reasons,  that  the  quantity  must  depend  upon  the  quan¬ 
tity  of  the  shrimp  shells:  here,  as  on  innumerable  occa- 
t  sions  in  our  work,  the  discretion  of  the  cook  must  be  ex¬ 
ercised,  or  her  cookery  cannot  be  good. 

ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVIES  may  be  made  in  several 
ways :  the  following,  though  old  fashioned,  is,  perhaps,  the 
best.  Boil  a  pound  of  anchovies,  freed  from  the  bones  and 
cut  small,  in  two  quarts  of  water  with  two  bay  leaves, 
some  whole  pepper,  scraped  horse-radish,  a  bit  of  thyme, 

■  two  blades  of  mace,  six  shalots  minced,  a  gill  of  port  wine, 
the  same  quantity  of  catchup,  and  half  the  outside  rind  of 
a  lemon  chopped  fine,  in  a  close  vessel  for  twenty  or  more 
minutes ;  when  removed  from  the  fire  and  before  it  is  cold, 


184 


SAUCES. 


but  not  while  it  is  very  hot,  force  it  through  a  coarse  cloth 
or  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  cold  put  it  into 
bottles  well  stopped  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE  may  also  be  made  many  ways. 
With  the  butter  of  anchovies  (page  164)  and  some  good 
gravy  ;  or  with  the  liquor  of  anchovies  and  melted  butter  ; 
or  with  an  anchovy  freed  from  the  bone,  minced  and  boiled 
in  good  gravy  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  with  a  small  quan¬ 
tity  of  butter  and  starch  to  thicken  it ;  or  with  essence  of 
anchovies  and  melted  butter,  or,  instead,  with  some  good 
gravy.  You  may  add  wThat  condiments  you  please  ;  but 
wre  advise  none,  as  they  will  destroy  in  some  degree  the 
peculiar  flavour  of  the  anchovy,  in  chosing  which  take  care 
that  its  flesh  when  stripped  from  the  bone  is  of  a  red 
colour,  and  perfectly  free  from  rancidity  ;  if  it  be  yellowish 
both  within  and  without  it  is  not  good ;  but  its  smell  will, 
in  general,  be  a  sure  guide.  If  you  keep  anchovies  in  a 
pot  or  jar,  take  care  that  they  are  w'holly  covered  from  the 
air  with  a  brine  made  with  coarse  bay  salt ;  or  rather  well 
covered  with  salt  itself ;  they  should  be  well  pressed  together 
between  layers  of  salt  and  then  layers  of  the  fish. 

FENNEL  SAUCE  is  best  and  most  easily  made  by 
boiling  sprigs  of  green  fennel  in  water  till  they  are  tender, 
chopping  them  fine  and  then  by  mixing  them  with  melted 
butter.  See  Melted  Butter,  page  165. 

Some  make  fennel  sauce  with  equal  parts  of  green  fennel, 
mint,  and  parsley  boiled  till  they  are  tender,  and  then 
chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  melted  butter;  but  this  is  a 
compound  sauce  which  wre  do  not  recommend,  nor  do  wTe 
believe  many  will  desire  it. 

PARSLEY  AND  BUTTER  is  prepared  exactly  in 
the  same  way  as  fennel  sauce ;  see  Melted  Butter , 
pao;e  165. 

GREEN  SAUCE.  Bruise  green  spinach  or  sorrel  in 
a  marble  mortar,  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  cloth  or 
coarse  sieve  ;  add  a  little  lump  sugar  and  to  the  spinach 
juice  some  vinegar,  or,  instead,  the  pulp  of  stew^ed  goose¬ 
berries  ;  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  simmer  the  w’hole  for 
about  five  minutes  :  shake  all  well  together. 

Note,  this  is  sometimes  served  up  with  young  ducks  or 
green  geese.  You  will  want  neither  gooseberries  nor 


SAUCES.  185 

'  vinegar  if  you  employ  the  juice  of  sorrel,  but  to  give  it 
I  some  consistency  it  may  be  necessary  to  add  a  little  starch 
to  the  butter. 

LEMON  SAUCE  is  prepared  in  various  ways ;  but  the 
best  of  our  experience  and  the  example  of  our  neighbours, 
the  French,*  direct  the  following  as  the  most  simple  and 
most  elegant.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  veal  gravy 
or,  in  its  absence,  simple  water,  thicken  it  by  boiling  with 
a  little  pure  starch,  then  add  to  it  the  juice  of  a  large 
lemon,  and  the  outside  peel  pared  very  thin  and  pounded 
into  a  paste,  or  minced  very  fine,  or  grated  off  the  lemon. 
Simmer  the  whole  together  for  a  few  minutes. 

Note ,  a  sauce  of  Seville  oranges,  or  of  any  other 
oranges ,  may  be  made,  if  required,  in  exactly  the  same 
i  way.  Some  employ  melted  butter,  others  cream,  instead 
of  g’ravy  or  water;  others  cut  the  lemon,  freed  altogether 
from  its  rind,  into  small  bits  and  mix  it  with  the  butter ; 
but  we  disapprove  of  all  these  methods :  the  last  without 
the  rind  will  have  little  or  no  taste  of  the  lemon. 

NO  cook,  we  presume,  will  be  here  at  a  loss 
For  Condiments  Compound,  for  Gravies  and  Sauce  ; 

But  Prudence,  a  friend,  would  now  lift  up  her  voice 
And  warn  her  of  those  to  be  careful  in  choice  : 

For  the  stomach’s  the  organ  where  all  of  our  food 
Is  made  into  mischief  or  wrought  into  good ; 

If  bad  be  digestion,  such  horrors  arise 
As  confound  all  our  judgment  and  baffle  the  wise  ; 

If  good,  how  elate  and  how  pleasant  we  feel. 

We  laugh  with  the  lively  or  dance  a  wild  reel. 

Yet  there  are  who  persist  in  a  course  of  such  strife 
With  food  and  digestion  that  misery’s  their  life  ! 

How  much  unto  sauces  such  misery  we  owe 
A  little  observance  the  gourmand  will  show. 

Of  sauces  be  therefore  most  careful  in  choice 
And  ’twill  not  be  in  vain  that  we  lift  up  our  voice. f 


*  Sauce  Bigarade,  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  G2. 
t  Ainsi  les  jus,  les  essences  de  toute  espece,  &c.  &c.  sont  ex- 
trSmement  recherchees  et  mis  en  usage  pour  stimuler  et  agacer  les 
liouppes  nerveuses  de  la  langue,  et  faire  venir  I’eau  d  la  bouche . 
Mais  nous  ne  cesserons  pas  le  rdpeter,  soyez-en  sobres,  n’en 
chargez  pas  trop  votre  estomac ;  car  ce  n’est  pas  tout  que  de 
manger,  il  faut  digerer  :  c’est  par  le  moyen  de  cet  organ  central 
qu’on  se  donne  des  idees  gaies,  or  bien  la  melancholie ;  calculez 
d’apres  la  quelles  peuvent  etre  les  suites  d’une  mauvaise  diges- 


186 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


Of  SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS,  one  of  the  most  useful 
and  most  important  is 

COMMON  SALT;  it  is  a  combination  of  soda  and 
muriatic  acid,  hence  called  by  chemists  muriate  of  soda. 

It  is  found  abundantly  in  sea-water  and  in  many  springs 
and  mines  in  England  as  well  as  in  other  countries.  Its 
use,  as  a  condiment,  has  been  already  alluded  to  in 
page  163  of  this  chapter:  we  may  add  here  that  it  is 
found  in  more  or  less  quantity  in  human  blood  ;  and  from 
some  late  researches  of  Dr.  Stevens,  its  presence  appears 
essential  to  the  healthy  existence  of  that  fluid  ;  no  wonder, 
therefore,  that  almost  every  one  desires  to  take  in  greater 
or  in  less  quantity  salt  as  a  condiment.  Bay  salt  is  no¬ 
thing  more  than  common  salt  in  larger  crystals :  it  is  cal¬ 
culated  for  the  salting-  of  fish  and  other  food  when  slow 
dissolution  of  the  salt  is  desirable.  Rock  salt  is  common  ! 
salt  as  it  is  dug-  from  the  mines  without  any  purification. 
The  uses  of  all  these  varieties  of  common  salt  in  the  preser¬ 
vation  of  food  are  too  well  known  to  be  insisted  upon. 

SALT-PETRE,  or  NITRE,  is  a  combination  of  nitric 
acid  and  potash,  hence  called  nitrate  of  potash  ;  it  may 
be  also  employed  in  the  preservation  of  animal  food ;  but 
its  chief  use  in  cookery  is  to  impart  a  red  colour  to  pork, 
beef,  &c. ;  not,  perhaps,  with  any  advantage  to  their  nutri¬ 
tious  properties,  but  see  what  is  said  on  this  subject  in 
page  134  note.  It  is  brought  to  this  country  in  a  crude 
state  from  the  East  Indies,  and  purified  or  refined  here. 

SUGAR  is  also  a  simple  condiment  employed  on  occa¬ 
sions  too  numerous  to  be  specified  ;  but  it  is  not  so  neces¬ 
sary  nor  so  wholesome  in  cookery  as  salt.  We  shall  say 
more  concerning  sugar  in  other  parts  of  our  work. 

VINEGAR,  next  to  salt,  is  beyond  question  the  most 
important  of  the  simple  condiments ;  there  are  few  sto¬ 
machs  with  which,  in  moderate  quantity,  it  will  not  agree: 
this  as  wrell  as  salt  is  an  excellent  antiseptic.  A  further 


tion,  ne  fut-elle  que  lente  ou  penible,  et  ce  que  vous  eprouverez 
a  la  suite  d’un  grand  repas  servira  a  vous  rendra  compte  de  notre 
assertion,  qui  n’est  que  trop  fondee  sur  l’experience. — Manuel  de 
Cuisinier,  page  76. 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS.  187 

account  of  vinegar  and  its  impregnations,  with  various  in¬ 
gredients,  will  be  found  under  Pickling,  which  see. 

BLACK  AND  WHITE  PEPPER  are  the  product  of 
an  East-Indian  climbing  plant,  (the  piper  nigrum.)  The 
only  difference  between  the  black  and  the  white  is  that  the 
first  is  dried  with  the  external  skin  of  the  berry  on,  and 
the  last  is  the  berry  deprived  of  that  skin  ;  as  the  acridity 
of  this  berry  resides  in  greatest  force  in  the  skin,  the  black 
pepper  is  the  hottest.  Pepper  may  now  be  ohtained  in 
commerce  in  powder  pure,  or  nearly  so ;  it  was  formerly 
very  much  adulterated.  We  may  mention  here  also  long 
pepper,  the  product  of  the  piper  longum,  another  plant 
of  the  same  kind  as  that  which  produces  the  black  pepper. 
We  do  not  believe  that  it  is  in  any  way  superior  to  black 
pepper. 

ALLSPICE  or  PIMENTA  is  a  berry  of  the  pimenta 
vulgaris,  a  tree,  a  sort  of  myrtle,  found  plentifully  in  the 
West  Indies.  From  its  spicy  flavour  it  is  very  often  used 
in  cookery.  Its  chief  virtues  consist  of  an  aromatic  oil, 
which  long  boiling  will  dissipate  :  this  oil  is  similar  in  qua¬ 
lity  to,  and  equally  as  useful  as  oil  of  cloves :  to  employ 
this  spice  and  cloves  in  the  same  dish  would  seem  therefore 
superfluous. 

CLOVES  are  the  unexpanded  flower-buds  of  the  cary- 
iphyllus  aromaticus,  an  East-Indian  tree.  Their  taste 

{and  smell  are  well  known ;  the  clove  is  a  warm  stimulating 
spice;  but  as  its  oil,  in  which  its  virtue  chiefly  resides,  is 
dissipated  by  heat,  the  cook  should  be  careful  not  to  boil  it 
.  long,  nor,  if  possible,  in  open  vessels. 

NUTMEGS  are  the  kernels  of  the  fruit  of  the  myristica 
|f noschata,  a  tree  growing  in  several  of  the  islands  of  the 
East  Indies.  The  nutmeg  also  contains  a  stimulating  essen- 
ial  oil,  which  is  dissipable  by  heat,  and  therefore  it  should 
hot  be  subjected  to  much  boiling;  in  moderate  quantity 
nutmeg  proves  grateful  to  the  stomach ;  but  it  is  said  that, 
n  large  quantities,  it  is  stupifying  and  narcotic. 

MACE  is  the  dried  skin  that  envelopes  the  hard  dark 
-hell  which  contains  the  nutmeg  ;  it  partakes,  of  course,  of 
lie  properties  of  that  spice  :  there  is,  however,  some  dif- 
<  Terence  in  their  smell ;  but  there  can  scarcely  exist  an 
occasion  in  cookery,  when  both  mace  and  nutmeg  require 


188 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


to  be  used  together.  Long  boiling,  as  with  the  other  fra¬ 
grant  spices,  will  spoil  it. 

CINNAMON  is  the  under-bark  of  the  branches  of  the 
laurus  cinnamomum,  a  tree  of  the  bay  tribe  found  chiefly 
in  the  island  of  Ceylon  in  the  East  Indies.  Cinnamon  is 
thinner  than  cassia,  more  tough  in  its  fracture,  and  of  a 
darker  colour ;  its  smell  is  also  more  fragrant ;  and  its  taste 
is  more  astringent  and  less  biting  than  that  spice.  It 
affords  an  agreeable  variety  among  our  simple  aromatic 
stimulants.  Its  oil,  which  sinks  in  water  as  well  indeed  as 
that  from  some  other  of  the  spices,  is  very  convenient  for 
flavouring  puddings,  a  drop  of  which  on  sugar  is  sufficient 
for  a  large  one. 

CASSIA  is  the  bark  of  the  laurus  cassia,  a  tree  also 
of  the  bay  tribe  found  in  the  East  Indies.  Its  oil  is  so 
similar  to  that  of  cinnamon,  that  it  is  often  sold  for  it,  and 
is  equally  useful.  As  a  spice,  however,  cassia  is  more 
glutinous  than  cinnamon,  and  is  not  therefore  so  well 
adapted  to  be  used  in  substance. 

CASSIA  BUDS,  which  are,  it  is  said,  the  receptacles 
of  the  seed  of  the  true  cinnamon  tree,  contain  an  oil  of 
equal  pungency  with  that  of  cinnamon ;  they  are  not  much 
known  in  cooker}7,  but  they  will  be  found  occasionally 
useful  when  employed  in  substance  to  impart  the  flavour 
o-f  cinnamon,  more  especially  in  some  pies  and  puddings. 

GINGER  is  the  dried  root  of  a  reed-like  plant,  the 
zingiber  officinale,  which  grows  wild  in  the  East  Indies  ; 
the  root  is  perennial,  the  stalks  are  annual;  it  is  now 
naturalized  also  in  the  West  Indies,  whence  the  chief  of 
the  ginger  of  commerce  is  at  present  derived.  That  which 
is  whitish  and  of  a  solid  fractui'e  is  the  best ;  the  woolly 
roots  should  be  avoided.  The  virtues  of  ginger  reside 
chiefly  in  some  matter  not  easily  rendered  volatile,  yet  it 
readily  combines  with  water,  wine,  and  spirit.  But  ginger, 
nevertheless,  is  best  used  in  powder,  with  our  food ;  it 
should  never  be  much  boiled  as  boiling  renders  it  very 
mucilaginous ;  hence  an  infusion  only  of  boiling'  water 
upon  bruised  ginger  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  tea, 
if  taken  occasionally  for  breakfast.  Ginger  is  not  so 
much  used  in  cookery  as  it  deserves  to  be.  In  the  West 
Indies  its  fresh  I’oot  is  eaten  with  salads  and  with  other 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


189 


food.  From  what  has  been  said  an  essence  of  ginger  may 
)e  easily  made  by  simply  bruising-  the  root  and  digesting 
it  in  good  white  wine  or  proof  spirit*  for  a  fortnight  or  a 
longer  period,  shaking  the  mixture  well  once  a  day:  in  this 
process  there  is  no  necessity  for  employing  heat. 

CAYENNE  PEPPER  is  the  powdered  pods  of  different 
species  of  capsicum,  a  well  known  genus  of  plants  growing 
in  the  East  and  West  Indies,  and  the  warm  parts  of  Ame¬ 
rica.  Some  are  annual  plants' ;  many  are  reared  in  this 
country  with  suitable  precaution.  Their  pods  contain  a 
pungent  acridity  too  well  known  to  need  description.  This 
condiment  is  a  very  valuable  one  when  used  discreetly. 
The  capsicum  annuum  or  annual  capsicum,  the  capsicum 
grossum  or  bell  pepper,  and  the  capsicum  cerasiforme  or 
cherry  pepper,  are  best  known  in  this  country,  the  pods 
of  all  which  are  frequently  pickled  :  but  the  best  cayenne 


pepper  is  imported  from  the  West  Indies;  it  should  be  dry 
and  of  an  orange  yellow  colour ;  it  is  too  often  mixed  with 
salt  and  some  colouring  matter,  which  render  it  moist  and 
of  very  inferior  quality.  An  essence  may  be  easily  made 
from  it  with  good  white  wine  or  proof  spirit  in  the  same 
way  as  directed  for  ginger. 

MUSTARD,  as  found  in  the  kitchen,  is  a  yellow  powder 
obtained  from  the  seed  of  an  annual  plant,  the  sinapis  nigra, 
growing  plentifully  in  almost  every  part  of  this  country ;  it 
is  seen  in  most  wheat  fields.  Its  virtues  reside  in  a  pungent 
aroma,  which  cannot  be  obtained  in  a  concentrated  form  by 
ordinary  processes,  if  at  ail ;  it  is,  therefore,  best  employed 
in  its  crude  state,  being  simply  well  mixed  with  cold  water 
and  plenty  of  salt.  The  best  mustard  is  said  to  come  from 
Durham,  but  this  is  quite  a  mistake  ;  mustard  is  doubtless 
very  often  adulterated,  and  the  difficulty  of  detecting  it  in 
such  a  state  is  great. 


Note. — It  should  not  be  made  with  boiling  or  even  hot 
water,  as  by  such  means  it  will  much  sooner  spoil. 

Within  the  recollection  of  the  writer  of  this,  a  large 


*  Proof  spirit  consists  of  fifty-five  parts  of  pure  rectified  spirit 
of  wine  and  forty-five  of  water.  If,  however,  you  desire  a  more 
elegant  essence,  you  may  use  brandy  instead  of  proof  spirit; 
of  course,  brandy  will  make  it  much  more  expensive 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


190 

wooden  bowl  was  kept  in  many  farm-houses,  in  the  West  of 
England,  called  the  mustard-howl,  in  which  was  pounded 
or  rolled  over  with  a  heavy  iron  ball  the  mustard  seed  so  as 
to  make  it  into  a  gross  powder,  which,  although  homely  in 
its  kind  and  generally  not  even  sifted,  was  yet  at  once 
genuine,  wholesome,  and  hot  ;  would  that  modern  refine¬ 
ment  always  produced  mustard  equally  good. 

WHITE  MUSTARD,  sinapis  alba,  a  native  also  of 
this  country,  is  distinguished  by  its  white  seeds ;  it  is  of 
similar  properties  with  the  last.  It  is  also  employed  as  a 
salad,  for  which  it  is  very  wholesome. 

HORSE-R  ADISH  is  the  root  of  the  cochlearia  armo- 
racia,  a  well-known  perennial,  native  plant  of  this  country, 
but  cultivated  in  most  gardens.  Its  virtues  reside,  as  we 
have  elsewhere  observed,  in  a  pungent  aroma,  which  is  dis- 
sipable  by  heat.  Horse-radish  is,  therefore,  best  as  a  con¬ 
diment  either  scraped  or  grated  ;  it  is  one  of  our  most 
valuable  stimulants  whether  taken  with  food  or  as  a  medicine. 

Of  ONIONS,  the  product  of  the  allium  cepa  ;  of  GAR¬ 
LIC,  of  the  allium  sativum  ;  of  ROCAMBOLE,  that  of  the 
allium  scordoprasum ;  of  LEEKS,  that  of  allium porrum ; 
of  SHALOT,  that  of  allium  ascalonicum  ;  of  the  CANA¬ 
DIAN  ONION,  that  of  allium  Canadense,  remarkable 
for  producing,  like  garlic,  a  bulb  also  at  the  top  of  the  stalk ; 
and  of  CHIVES,  that  of  allium  chcenoprasum ;  we  may 
observe  that  they  are  all  distinguished  by  similar  properties, 
and  impart  to  food,  when  employed  discreetly,  an  agreeable 
relish.  They,  nevertheless,  disagree  with  many  stomachs, 
and  require  to  be  used,  therefore,  with  great  precaution. 
They  appear  to  suit  the  robust  and  rural  population  of  this 
country  much  better  than  that  of  towns  and  great  cities  ;  a 
strong  and  healthy  digestion  is  necessary  to  the  complete 
enjoyment  of  these  condiments.  As  their  stimulating  pro¬ 
perties  are  dissipable,  in  great  measure,  by  heat,  long  boiling 
renders  them  more  mild,  and  therefore  more  suitable  to 
dyspeptic  stomachs.  The  mildest  of  these  is  chives,  the 
strongest  garlic. 

PARSLEY  is  the  green  leaves  of  the  apium  petroseli- 
num,  a  biennial  plant,  a  native  of  Sardinia,  but  it  has  been 
cultivated  for  more  than  two  centuries  in  this  country. 
Three  varieties  of  parsley  are  known,  the  common  plain 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


191 


leaved,  the  curled,  thick,  or  double  leaved,  and  the  broad 
leaved,  or  large  Hamburgh  rooted ;  this  last  is,  however, 
cultivated  for  its  root,  which  is  eaten  like  parsnips.  The 
double  leaved  is  considered  the  best ;  but  that  and  the  com¬ 
mon  plain  leaved  are  used  indiscriminately.  Parsley  is  an 
agreeable  condiment  to  a  great  variety  of  our  food,  and, 
what  is  very  remarkable,  it  appears  to  suit  almost  every 
Istomach.  It  is  best  employed  in  its  green  state  ;  it  may  be 
made  crisp  by  being  hastily  dried  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or 
thrown  into  a  pan  of  hoiling  fat,  which  will  crisp  it  of  a  fine 
green  provided  it  do  not  remain  long  in  it ;  but  no  method 
in  which  much  heat  is  employed  will  prevent  its  stimulating- 
aroma  from  being-  more  or  less  dissipated.  Salting  the 
bruised  green  leaves  is,  perhaps,  the  most  effectual  way  of 
preserving-  that  aroma  ;  but  salt  with  parsley  is  not  always 

Ixgreeable  or  convenient. 

SAGE  is  the  leaves  of  an  evergreen  shrubby  plant,  the 
salvia  officinalis,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  but  now 
bund  in  almost  every  garden  in  this  country  ;  there  are 
i several  varieties,  some  with  greenish  leaves,  others  having 
nore  or  less  of  a  purplish  tinge  ;  the  last  is  usually  pre¬ 
ferred  for  culinary  purposes.  Sage  is  an  agreeable  condi- 
nent,  particularly  with  goose  and  roast  pork.  It  had 
ormerly  great  repute  as  a  medicine,  and  gave  rise  to  the 
ollowing  line  : — 

Cur  moriatur  homo  cui  salvia  crescit  in  horto ; 

>ut  it  is  not  now  in  the  P harmacopceia  Londinensis,  al- 
hough  still  used  occasionally  by  the  common  people  instead 
>f  tea. 

CLARY,  another  [of  the  sage  tribe,  salvia  sclarea,  a 
tardy  biennial,  native  of  Italy,  but  cultivated  in  this 
ountry,  may  be  just  mentioned ;  its  leaves  are  occasionally 
mployed  to  flavour  soups,  its  flow-ers  for  a  wine  ;  but  it  is 
lot  of  much  importance  in  any  way. 

BORAGE,  the  borago  officinalis,  is  well  knowm  for  fla- 
ouring  cool  tankards,  &c.  we  have  nothing  to  say  against 
his  condiment,  and  not  much  in  its  favour. 

MINT,  SPEARMINT,  or  COMMON  MINT,  is  the 
talks  and  leaves  of  a  perennial-rooted  plant,  the  mentha 
\  iridis,  found  in  most  gardens,  and  is  also  seen  grow-ing 


192 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


wild  in  many  places  in  this  country ;  it  forms  an  agreeable 
variety  as  a  sauce,  and  is  in  every  respect  a  wholesome  con¬ 
diment. 

FENNEL,  the  leaves  and  tender  stalks  of  a  perennial- 
rooted  plant,  the  methum  faeniculum,  growing  wild,  bul 
found  in  most  gardens  as  a  cultivated  vegetable.  It  ie 
chiefly  employed  as  a  pleasant  condiment  with  fish. 

CELERY  is  the  well  known  blanched  stalk  of  the  apiim 
graveolens,  a  biennial  plant,  see  page  26.  It  imparts,  af 
well  as  its  seed,  an  agreeable  and  wholesome  flavour  t( 
many  dishes.  The  se-eds  of  smallage  (the  mother-plant  o 
the  cultivated  celery)  may  be  also  employed  for  the  same 
purpose.  See  a  note  on  smallage,  page  161. 

CARAWAY  SEEDS  are  the  production  of  an  indi 
genous  biennial  plant,  carum  carui,  extensively  cultivate' 
in  some  parts  of  this  country.  They  are  mostly  employed 
in  biscuits  and  confectionary.  The  leaves  of  caraway  ai 
occasionally  used  to  flavour  soups.  Caraway  seeds  contain 
a  stimulating  essential  oil ;  when  taken  in  moderate  quanti 
ties  they  are  at  once  pleasant  and  wholesome. 

CORIANDER  SEEDS  are  the  production  of  an  an  ; 
nual  plant,  coriandrum  sativum ,  growing  wild,  but  noi 
cultivated  in  several  places  in  this  country.  They  ar 
chiefly  employed  by  the  confectioners  ;  they  form  also  on 
of  the  ingredients  in  most  currie-powders  ;  the  leaves  of  tb 
plant  are  sometimes  used  in  soups  and  salads.  We  belie\ 
that  there  is  no  harm  in  these  seeds  ;  but  wre  cannot  sa 
much  in  their  favour. 

TURMERIC  ROOT  is  the  production  of  the  curcuni 
longa,  an  East  as  well  as  a  West  Indian  plant.  It  is  know 
in  cookery  chiefly  as  an  ingredient  in  currie -powrder  ;  b1 
even  for  that,  as  well  as  for  tingeing  cakes,  &c.  of  a  yello 
colour,  for  which  it  is  too  much  used,  w7e  can  give  it  none 
our  commendation. 

SWEET  HERBS  are  the  leaves  and  tender  stalks 
those  plants  which  possess  a  smell  more  or  less  aromal 
and  agreeable,  and  tbat  impart  a  taste  varying  in  pungen 
in  the  different  kinds.  The  following  are  arranged  und 
this  head  in  Loudon’s  Cyclopaedia  of  Gardening ,  name! 
the  thymes,  sage,  clary,  the  mints  including  pennyroyc 
the  marjorams,  savory,  the  basils,  rosemary,  lavendi 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


193 


tansy,  and  costmary.  Some  of  these  have  been  already 
noticed ;  others,  though  valuable  plants,  do  not  require  at¬ 
tention  as  condiments.  The  following  are,  however,  those 
which  we  consider  as  being  more  immediately  the  sweet 
herbs  of  the  kitchen.  The  practice  of  mixing  so  many  dif¬ 
ferent  aromatic  herbs  together  we  do  not  approve  ;  we  be¬ 
lieve  that  the  cook  will,  in  general,  find  it  much  better  to 
11  have  only  one  °f  such  in  stuffing  or  other  cooking.  How 
much  is  the  flavour  of  lemon  thyme  spoiled  by  admixture 
with  stronger  yet  less  elegant  condiments  ? 

COMMON  or  GARDEN  THYME  is  the  stalks  and 
Jeaves  of  an  evergreen  shrub,  the  thymus  vulgaris,  native 
Ot  Spam  and  Italy,  but  cultivated  in  our  gardens.  It  affords 
a  pleasant  condiment ;  but 

LEMON  THYME,  a  more  delicate  plant,  the  thymus 
rel  citriodorus,  is  very  preferable  to  it ;  as  its  name  imports,  it 
11  13  distinguished,  when  its  leaves  are  bruised,  by  a  strono- 
aii  smell  similar  to  that  of  lemon-peel. 

ati|  Of  MARJORAM  four  species  are  cultivated  ;  the  pot 
marjoram,  origanum  onites,  a  hardy  perennial ;  the  sweet 
ai  marjoram,  origanum \  mar j  or  ana,  a  hardy  biennial,  a  na- 
ioi  tive  ot  Portugal,  but  cultivated  in  this  country  ;  the  winter 
m\Sweet  marjoram,  origanum  heracleoticum,  a  hardy  peren- 
oi|nial,  native  of  Greece,  but  cultivated  in  our  gardens; 

he  common  marjoram,  origanum,  vulgare,  a  hardy  peren¬ 
nial,  found  wild  in  various  places  of  this  country.  The 
;|ast  is  only  used  in  cookery  in  the  absence  of  the  culti¬ 
vated  kinds,  all  of  which  are  useful  condiments  when  ern- 
«f»l°yed  discreetly.  They  are  most  fragrant  in  their  green 
io#tate,  as  then  affording  the  greatest  quantity  of  an  essential 
Ail,  upon  which  their  virtues  chiefly  depend  ;  some  of  this 
'llpd  1S  lost  Li  drying  them  ;  but  these,  as  well  as  the  mints, 

^  [till  retain,  when  dried  and  carefully  kept,  a  considerable 
[uantity  of  their  oil. 

is  i  PENNY-ROYAL,  mentha  pulegium,  is  indigenous  to 
^ithis  country,  but  cultivated  in  our  gardens.  It  is  occa¬ 
sionally  used  with  other  sweet  herbs ;  but  it  is  not  so  ex¬ 
citing  either  in  smell  or  taste  as  the  other  mints  or  the 
Jlfiymes. 

'Ojl  Of  SAVORY,  two  species  are  cultivated  in  our  o-ar- 


194 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


dens,  the  summer  savory,  satureja  hortensis,  a  hardy 
annual,  native  of  Italy  ;  and  the  winter  savory,  satureja 
montana,  a  hardy  shrub,  native  of  France  and  Italy. 

Of  BASIL  two  kinds  are  also  known  in  this  country ; 
the  sweet  basil,  ocymum  basilicum,  a  highly  aromatic  an¬ 
nual,  native  of  the  East  Indies,  but  long  cultivated  in  our 
gardens  ;  and  the  least  basil,  ocymum  minimum,  an  an¬ 
nual,  native  also  of  the  East  Indies,  but  long  cultivated  here. 
The  leaves  possess  a  strong  flavour  of  cloves,  and  on  this 
account  are  sometimes  put  into  highly-seasoned  dishes. 
Basil  is,  nevertheless,  not  a  very  common  condiment  in  our 
kitchens  ;  its  absence,  at  any  time,  will  be  no  great  loss. 

BAY,  or  SWEET  BAY,  the  laurus  nobilis,  a  native  of 
the  south  of  Europe,  is  said  to  be  the  tree,  the  branches  of 
which  were  anciently  used  to  form  the  crown  of  victory  on 
many  occasions.  It  is  cultivated  in  this  country,  and  its 
leaves  are  often  employed  to  flavour  soups  and  sauces,  and 
are  said  by  some  not  to  be  unwholesome,  but  others  assert 
that  they  are  poisonous  ;  we  advise  the  cook,  as  the  safest 
course,  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  them. 

If  we  cannot  recommend  the  leaves  of  sweet  bay  still  less 
can  we  recommend  the  leaves  of  the  CHERRY-LAUREL, 
prunus  laurocerasus,  an  evergreen  shrub,  cultivated  in 
gardens.  They  have  so  often  proved  poisonous  as  to  leave 
no  doubt  of  their  extremely  noxious  qualities ;  the  cook, 
therefore,  should  invariably  avoid  their  use.  The  poisor 
which  they  contain  is  prussic  acid;  they  have  been  here 
tofore,  and  we  fear  are  still  occasionally,  employed  to  im 
part  the  flavour  of  almonds  to  milk. 

TARRAGON,  artemisia  dracunculus,  is  a  perennia 
plant,  native  of  Siberia,  and  cultivated  in  our  gardens ;  i 
has  a  fragrant  smell  and  an  aromatic  taste.  It  imparts  t 
vinegar  its  aromatic  virtues,  and  may  be  otherwise  employe 
for  variety  in  our  condiments. 

CHERVIL,  scandix  cerefolium,  is  an  annual  plant  cu' 
tivated  in  our  gardens.  The  leaves  are  used  occasionally  i 
soups  and  salads ;  but  it  is  of  little  consequence  in  an 
way. 

BARBERRIES  are  the  fruit  of  the  berberis  vulgaris, 
native  of  England  as  well  as  other  parts  of  Europe.  It 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


195 


also  cultivated  in  our  gardens;  there  are  several  varieties. 
From  their  acidity  they  are  considered  a  pleasant  condi¬ 
ment. 

CAPERS  are  the  flower  buds  of  the  capparis  spinosct,  a 
trailing  shrub,  native  of  the  south  of  Italy  and  Sicily.  They 
are  brought  to  this  country  preserved  in  strong  vinegar,  and 
form  a  very  agreeable  acidulous  condiment  on  many  occa¬ 
sions. 

SUBSTITUTES  FOR  CAPERS  are  occasionally  made 
from  the  green  seed  pods  of  the  nasturtium,  or  Indian 
cress,  an  annual  flower  well  known  in  our  gardens.  The 
unripe  seed  pods  of  the  garden  radish  have  been  also  em¬ 
ployed  for  the  same  purpose ;  but  neither  equal  the  ori¬ 
ginal. 

The  LEMON  is  the  fruit  of  the  citrus  medica,  a  tree, 
native  of  the  warmer  parts  of  Asia,  but  much  cultivated  in 
the  warmer  parts  of  Europe,  and  in  the  green  houses  of 
this  country.  It  is,  both  by  its  outside,  peel,  and  its  acid 
juice,  after  vinegar,  one  of. the  most  useful  and  wholesome 
of  simple  condiments.  Of  this  truly  valuable  fruit  we  need 
not  say  more,  but  that,  although  dried  lemon  peel  occa¬ 
sionally  supplies  the  place  of  the  fresh  rind,  much  of  its 
essential  oil,  on  which  its  flavour  depends,  is  lost  in  the 
drying,  and,  therefore,  if  the  cook  desire  to  retain  its  best 
flavour  and  odour,  the  outside  peel  should  be  grated  while 
fresh,  mixed  with  a  little  salt,  and  be  kept  in  a  bottle  closely 
stopped.  The  juice  should  always  be  employed  fresh ;  no 
method  has  been  yet  discovered  of  preserving  it  in  per¬ 
fection. 

The  CITRON  is  a  variety  of  the  lemon  but  much  larger; 
its  acid  is  similar  to  that  of  the  lemon.  It  is  not  often  to 
be  obtained  in  the  shops  of  this  country. 

The  LIME  contains  also  a  very  pleasant  acid.  It  is  by 
some  considered  a  mere  variety  of  the  lemon  ;  by  others,  a 
distinct  species,  and  named  citrus  acida. 

ORANGES,  the  fruit  of  the  citrus  aurantium,  an  ever¬ 
green  tree,  native  of  China  and  India,  but  now  very  exten¬ 
sively  cultivated  in  the  south  of  Europe,  and  also  in  this 
country,  furnish  also  a  very  agreeable  acid.  The  Seville 
orange  is  a  variety  which  affords,  by  its  acid  and  its  exte¬ 
rior  peel,  very  agreeable  and  wholesome  condiments. 

k  2 


196 


SIMPLE  CONDIMENTS. 


HOPS  may  also  be  considered  as  a  simple  condiment. 
As  they  do  not  enter  into  the  cookery  of  the  kitchen  but  of 
the  brewhouse,  we  shall  treat  of  them  in  a  subsequent 
chapter. 

TRUFFLES  AND  MORELS  generally  appear  together 
in  cookery  books  like  shadow  and  substance.  The  truffle 
or  subterraneous  puff-bull,  tuber  cibarium,  grows  a  few 
inches  below  the  earth  in  some  parts  of  this  country,  as 
well  as  on  the  continent;  it  is  obtained  in  the  shops  in  a 
dry  shrivelled  state,  and  imparts  a  certain  flavour.  But  the 
truffie  as  well  as  the  morel,  phallus  esculentus,  a  small 
mushroom,  growing  in  this  and  other  countries,  also  usually 
obtained  in  a  dried  state,  may  be  very  well  omitted  in  all 
our  dishes  of  cookery ;  the  other  more  plentiful  and  less 
expensive  mushroom  tribes  supplying  both  their  places. 

Of  MUSHROOMS  we  shall  speak  more  at  large  else- 
w'here  in  our  work.  The  liquor  obtained  from  them  by  the 
intervention  of  salt,  called  catchup,  does  not  appear  an 
unwholesome  condiment;  and  this  is  as  much  as  we  can 
say  for  it. 

INDIAN  SOY,  when  genuine,  said  to  be  obtained  from 
the  seed  of  the  dolichos  soja,  an  East  Indian  plant,  may 
be  here  mentioned  as  being,  perhaps,  as  good  as  catchup, 
as  a  condiment,  although  its  taste  is  superior  to  this  last 
with  which  soy  is  too  often  mixed. 

APPLES  furnish  also,  when  stewed,  an  acid  condiment 
that  is  on  many  occasions  very  agreeable. 

GOOSEBERRIES  are  also  another  of  our  fruits  which 
afford,  when  stewed,  a  very  wholesome  and  pleasant  con¬ 
diment;  to  lamb  they  add  a  peculiar  zest. 

WINE  AND  BRANDY  may  be  also  mentioned  as 
condiments  which,  when  employed  discreetly,  are  at  once 
agreeable  and  wholesome. 

CONCLUSION  ON  SAUCES,  ETC. 

Of  condiments  compound  or  simple  or  rare. 

You  have  here,  gentle  reader!  a  long  bill  of  fare  ; 

You  may  choose  which  you  please  as  a  sauce  or  a  zest, 

But  of  this  be  assur’d,  from  the  East  to  the  West — 

In  whatever  country — wherever  the  sun 
Doth  his  bright  course  of  glory  exultingly  run  ; 

That  if,  on  emergence,  you  are  at  a  loss. 

Hunger,  Hunger,  itself  will  supply  the  best  sauce  ! 


197 


CHAPTER  X. 

VEGETABLES,  INCLUDING  THE  MOST  IMPORTANT 
GRAINS,  LEGUMINOUS  SUBSTANCES,  GREENS, 
AND  ROOTS  USED  AS  FOOD. 


Throughout  the  realms  of  the  Vegetable  World 
Where  blazonings  of  Beauty  are  wide  unfurl’d  j— 
From  the  tender  blade  to  the  rich,  ripe  corn  ; — 

In  the  splendour  of  noon,  at  the  earliest  morn  ; 
From  the  first  bud  of  spring  to  the  full-blown  flower. 
All,  all  proclaim  an  Immortal  Power, 

At  work  in  those  realms  for  the  use  of  man  ; 

All  the  which  with  much  care  he  ought  to  scan. 

Nor  shall  it  degrade  the  fair  Maiden  or  Wife 
To  learn  how  Bread  becomes  the  Staff  of  Life', — 
Nor  how  too,  as  said  some  clownish  elf. 

Bright  amber  Beer  becomes  Life  itself — • 

A  potent  Fiend  or  a  potent  Friend — 

A  blessing  or  a  curse  upon  life  to  attend! — 

Nor  from  those  realms  with  wisdom  to  select 
What  is  best  wherewith  those  realms  are  deck’d. 


General  Observations.  As  this  chapter  will  con¬ 
tain  more  important  information  for  the  cook  than  that  of 
mere  directions  for  dressing  vegetables  for  the  table 
usually  found  in  our  cookery  books,  we  entreat  the  cook’s 
attention  particularly  to  it,  being  persuaded  that  no  person 
can  be  a  good  one  who  is  not  acquainted,  in  some  degree  at 
least,  with  the  natural  history  and  sensible  properties  of 
those  vegetables  which  are  employed  in  our  cookery.  We 
have  no  inclination  to  make  the  cook  a  pedant,  but  we  have 
a  very  great  desire  indeed  to  teach  her  the  reason  why 
many  processes  are  adopted  in  cookery,  concerning  which,  wre 
dare  say,  she  never  once  thought  of  inquiring.  Thus,  if  she 
were  asked  why  it  is  necessary  to  ferment  wheat  flour,  it 
being  moistened  with  water  and  mixed  with  yeast,  in  order  to 
make  good  bread,  she  cannot,  most  probably,  assign  any  other 
reason  than,  we  always  do  so.  Now,  we  propose  in  part  in  this 
chapter  and  in  our  subsequent  one  on  baking  bread,  to  ex¬ 
plain  to  the  most  ordinary  capacity  the  absolute  necessity 
of  this  process,  in  order  that  wheat  flour  should  be  rendered 


198 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


suitable  for  the  human  stomach,  and  without  which  it  will 
be  always  more  or  less  unwholesome.  We  mention  this 
subject  here  because  it  is  one  of  the  most  important  in  the 
whole  art  of  the  preparation  of  human  food ;  and  one  con¬ 
cerning  which  more  mistakes  and  mischiefs  have  been  com¬ 
mitted  than  with  any  other  article  of  food  with  which  we 
are  acquainted. 

We  shall  not  enter  here  into  a  history  of  what  are  called 
by  the  chemists,  the  ultimate  principles  of  vegetables, 
which  by  the  way  are  very  few  in  number,  the  principal 
ones  being  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen;  but  as  these 
combine  with  one  another  in  various  proportions,  they  form 
in  vegetables  a  variety  of  well  known  substances,  the  chief 
of  which  are  gum,  sugar,  starch,  gluten,  extractive  mat¬ 
ter,  tannin,  colouring  matter,  fixed  and  essential  oils, 
resins,  acids,  and  a  few  other  substances,  all  which  are  de¬ 
nominated  by  chemists  th  eproxima  te  principles  of  vegetables. 

GUM  exists  in  considerable  quantity  in  the  sap  of  many 
vegetables ;  it  is  seen  in  one  of  its  purest  and  concrete  states 
in  gum  arabic,  which  is  the  product  of  the  acacia  vera  or 
Arabian  thorn,  a  tree,  native  of  Africa.  It  affords  on  solu¬ 
tion  in  water  a  nutritious  mucilage;  some  of  the  African 
tribes  use  it  as  food.  The  cherry  and  plum  tree  in  this 
country  afford  a  similar  gum  but  less  pure. 

SUGAR  is  also  more  or  less  diffused  in  many  of  the 
juices  of  different  vegetables;  the  sugar  of  commerce  is, 
for  the  most  part,  obtained  from  the  saccharum  officinarum 
or  sugar  cane,  a  plant  extensively  cultivated  both  in  the 
East  and  West  Indies;  sugar  also  abounds  in  large  quanti¬ 
ty  in  the  fresh  juice  of  the  grape,  which  after  fermentation 
becomes  wine,  and  to  which,  by  the  conversion  of  the 
sugar  into  spirit  in  that  process,  the  stimulating  and  intoxi¬ 
cating  properties  of  all  wines  are  chiefly  owing.  Sugar  is 
also  found  in  large  quantity  in  the  juice  of  the  apple,  wdiich, 
after  fermentation,  becomes  cyder;  in  the  juice  of  the 
pear  and  in  innumerable  other  fruits,  the  cherry,  the  plum, 
&c.  &c.,  and  also  in  many  roots,  such  as  the  carrot,  the 
parsnip,  &c.  &c.  It  is  also  obtained  from  the  juice  of  the 
acer  saccharinum  or  sugar  maple,  a  tree  growing  in  North 
America.  We  may  also  mention  that  it  is  to  sugar  the 
sweetness  of  all  animal  milk  is  owing:  a  proof  that  it  enters 


! 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


199 


S 

r 


le 

i- 

)n 
le 
;j. 
is 

h, 

lie  j 

m’ t 

H 

he  I 
rthl 

I 

ersl 


pretty  largely  into  the  food  of  animals;  it  is,  employed 
discreetly,  a  very  useful  and  wholesome  aliment.  It  appears, 
however,  best  suited  to  children  and  the  robust  adult. 
Honey  appears  to  be  merely  the  sugar  of  vegetables  in  a 
particular  form,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  aroma. 

STARCH  is  too  well  known  to  need  description.  It  is 
found  in  greater  or  less  quantity  in  almost  every  vegetable 
substance.  All  the  grains  and  most  seeds  contain  it  in 
notable  quantity;  of  wheat,  in  particular,  it  forms  almost 
three  fourths  of  its  bulk.  It  is  found  also  in  considerable 
quantity  in  potatoes ,  and  other  edible  roots,  as  well  as  in 
cabbage,  cauliflower ,  &c.  &c.  Of  rice,  barley,  and  oats, 
as  well  as  of  peas  and  beans,  it  constitutes  the  chief  part. 
It  is,  beyond  question,  one  of  the  most  universal,  useful, 
and  wholesome  substances  obtained  from  vegetables,  and 
consequently  enters  largely  into  the  vegetable  food  of  man; 
it  has  the  peculiar  property  of  not  fermenting  like  wheat 
flour,  when  taken  into  the  human  stomach,  being  dissolved 
in  water  by  boiling,  and  hence,  in  the  shape  of  arrow  root, 
tapioca ,  sago,  &c.,  is  well  suited  on  many  occasions  for 
the  sick.  But  it  is,  notwithstanding,  less  stimulant  and 
nutritious  than  the  next  article,  which  see. 

Note. — The  reader  must  not  confound  the  starch  of 
which  wre  here  treat  with  the  starch  usually  met  with  in  the 
shops  which  is  in  columnar  fragments  and.  has  mixed  with 
it  a  portion,  more  or  less,  of  indigo  or  other  colouring 
matter,  so  as  to  suit  it  for  the  laundress;  but  that  pure 
starch  which  may  be  obtained  from  wheat  flour  by  simple 
washing  or  from  potatoes,  which  see  below. 

GLUTEN,  or  vegetable  albumen,  as  it  might  be  called, 
is  found  also  in  considerable  quantity  in  many  vegetables; 
it  constitutes  of  wheat  about  one-fifth  or  more  of  its  bulk, 
from  which  it  may  be  obtained  by  merely  washing  flour, 
formed  into  a  paste,  in  a  stream  of  water;  the  starch  will 
be  removed  and  the  gluten,  which  is  nearly  insoluble  in 
water,  will  remain.  It  is  a  tough  and  somewhat  elastic 
substance  of  a  grey  colour;  when  dried,  it  is  brown  and 
brittle.  It  is  to  gluten  that  wheat  flour  owes  its  capability 
of  being  made  into  good  bread ;  no  grain  which  does  not 
contain  it  in  pretty  large  quantity  can  be  made  into  good 
bread  As  gluten  appears  to  approach  much  nearer  to  the 


200 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


nature  of  animal  albumen  than  any  other  vegetable  sub¬ 
stance,  it  is  now  well  known  that  that  vegetable  which 
contains  it  in  the  largest  quantity  will,  under  ordinary 
circumstances,  support  life  better  than  those  which  contain 
this  substance  in  much  less  quantity:  wheat  stands,  there¬ 
fore,  at  the  head  of  all  vegetables  as  food,  (see  wheat 
below,)  and,  what  is  very  remarkable,  has  been  so  consi¬ 
dered  by  most  persons  in  all  ages,  and  in  most  of  the 
temperate  climates  of  the  globe. 

EXTRACTIVE  MATTER  is  another  of  the  proximate 
principles  of  vegetables;  it  is  soluble  in  water,  and  may  be 
obtained  in  considerable  quantity  from  many  even  of  the 
dried  roots  of  vegetables  by  boiling  them  in  that  fluid. 
When  boiled  down  to  a  thick  consistence  it  is  of  a  dark 
brown  or  blackish  colour.  The  common  Spanish  liquorice 
of  the  shops  is  a  tolerable  sample  of  extractive  matter;  but 
it  contains  also  sugar  and  some  other  vegetable  principles, 
such  as  gum  or  mucilage.  As  most  of  the  water  employed 
in  vegetable  cookeiy  is  thrown  away,  the  cook  has  not  often 
her  attention  called  to  the  extractive  matter  of  vegetables. 
There  can  be  no  doubt,  however,  that  the  liquor  in  which 
some  vegetables  have  been  boiled  may  be  usefully  converted 
into  human  food  by  due  evaporation  and  care :  indeed,  it  is 
obvious  that  too  long  boiling-  of  these  will  extract  so  much 
of  their  nutritive  properties  as  to  leave  nothing  in  them 
worth  eating;  on  other  occasions  boiling  them  for  a  moderate 
time  in  water  renders  them  more  wholesome  and  agreeable. 

TANNIN,  by  some  called  the  astringent  principle, 
exists  in  many  vegetables  and  particularly  in  their  bark;  it 
is  found  in  considerable  quantity  in  oak  bark,  in  galls,  in 
grape  seeds,  and  it  constitutes  the  astringency,  in  part  at 
least,  of  port  wine ;  it  is  also  found  in  considerable  quan¬ 
tity  in  tea  which  is,  very  probably,  the  chief  substance 
that  makes  tea  so  wholesome  to  the  generality  of  persons 
who  drink  it.  What  is  very  remarkable  in  tannin  is,  that 
if  a  solution  of  it  in  water  be  added  to  any  solution  of 
gelatine,  such  as  isinglass  or  even  common  glue  in  water, 
the  two  substances  form  a  compound  not  soluble  in  water ; 
in  other  words,  a  sort  of  leather.  Upon  this  property  of 
tannin  is  the  art  of  converting  skins  into  leather  founded. 
The  COLOURING  MATTER  of  vegetables  resides  in 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


201 


several  of  the  vegetable  principles,  and  therefore  the  colours  of 
vegetables  are  affected  by  different  agents  in  various  ways. 
Alkaline  salts,  such  a§  carbonate  of  potash,  increase  the  in¬ 
tensity  of  the  vegetable  greens;  hence  they  are  occasionally 
employed  by  cooks  to  give  a  deeper  shade  to  them;  in  a 
caustic  state  alkalis  convert  vegetable  blues  to  a  green; 
acids,  on  the  contrary,  render  vegetable  blues  red,  and  in 
many  instances  increase,  or  at  least  preserve  the  red  colour 
of  several  vegetables;  hence  the  use  of  vinegar  in  pickling 
red  cabbage  and  some  other  condiments.  We  may  just 
mention,  as  a  curious  fact,  that  the  green  colour  of  a  cab¬ 
bage-leaf  may  be  entirely  extracted  from  it  by  digesting  it 
for  an  hour  or  two  in  rectified  spirits  of  wine  made  hot  in  a 
covered  vessel.  But  the  colouring  matter  of  vegetables  is 
of  more  importance  to  the  dyer  than  to  the  cook. 

FIXED  OILS  are  those  which  cannot  be  dissipated  by 
ordinary  heat;  olive  oil,  which  is  expressed  from  the  ripe 
pulp  of  the  fruit  called  an  olive,  is  the  most  important  as  an 
article  of  food  and  in  cookery.  It  is  used  in  warmer 
climates,  instead  of  butter,  on  numerous  occasions;  and  if 
sweet  and  good,  it  is  very  wholesome  when  employed  dis¬ 
creetly.  Many  other  oils  may  be  obtained  from  the  kernels 
of  various  nuts ,  from  both  sweet  and  bitter  almonds,  and 
also  from  the  seeds  of  the  single  white  poppy ;  the  oil  from 
these  last  is  considered  equal  to  that  of  the  best  olive  oil  as 
food  or  as  a  condiment;  although  the  white  juice  of  the 
green  head  becomes,  by  drying,  the  opium  of  the  shops. 

ESSENTIAL  or  VOLATILE  OILS  are  those  obtained 
by  distillation  from  various  vegetable  substances ;  while 
most  of  the  fixed  oils  yield,  comparatively,  little  smell,  and 
have,  for  the  most  part,  a  bland  taste.  Essential  oils,  on 
the  contrary,  are  distinguished  by  the  most  striking  proper¬ 
ties  for  which  the  plants  whence  they  are  respectively  ob¬ 
tained  are  known.  Thus  we  have  the  various  essential 
oils  from  the  spices,  from  the  mints,  lavender  and  rose¬ 
mary,  from  juniper,  from  the  exterior  rind  of  the  lemon, 
commonly  called  essence  of  lemon,  &c.  &c.  a  small  portion 
of  any  of  which  will  impart  their  smell  and  taste  to  many 
substances  employed  in  cookery,  as  well  as  in  medicine,  &c. 
It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add  that,  as  all  the  essential  oils 
are  so  readily  dissipated  by  heat,  much  heat,  and  particu- 


202 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


Iarly  if  long’  employed  in  the  cooking  of  any  substance  con¬ 
taining  them,  must  be  always  injurious  to  their  qualities. 
Neither  essential  nor  fixed  oils  can  be  mixed  with  water 
without  the  intervention  of  some  agent;  the  essential  oils, 
however,  readily  dissolve  in  rectified  spirit  of  wine  ;  when 
thus  dissolved,  if  the  solution  be  poured  into  water,  it  ren¬ 
ders  the  water  milky  ;  the  fixed  oils  do  not  combine  with 
spirit. 

Note.  —The  fragrant  emanation  from  flowers,  as  well 
as  other  plants,  wdiich  constitutes  what  in  vulgar  language 
is  called  their  smell,  was  formerly  supposed  to  be  a  peculiar 
principle,  and  called  spiritus  rector,  afterwards  aroma; 
but  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  it  is  merely  the  purer 
particles  of  their  essential  oil. 

RESINS  are  distinguished  from  gums  by  this  peculiarity, 
that  most  of  them  will  dissolve  in  rectified  spirit  of  wine, 
while  the  proper  solvent  of  gum  is  wrater ;  resins  do  not 
often  come  under  the  cognizance  of  the  cook ;  they  are 
frequently  employed  by  the  physician ;  Benjamin  and 
guaiacum  are  resins;  so  is  genuine  turpentine,  whence  the 
well  know’n  oil  is  obtained ;  myrrh  and  some  other  strong- 
smelling  gums  are  called  gum-resins,  because  they  contain 
both  gum  and  resin. 

The  ACIDS  of  the  vegetable  kingdom  are  the  following; 
that  abounding  in  the  lemon  and  orange  tribe  is  denomina¬ 
ted  the  citric;  that  in  the  grape  is  called  the  tartaric; 
that  found  in  wood-sorrel,  and  sugar,  is  called  the  oxalic ; 
that  in  apples,  &c.  the  malic;  that  in  galls,  the  gallic; 
and  that  in  benjamin,  the  benzoic ;  all  these  acids,  except 
the  two  last,  are,  when  used  discreetly ,  pleasant  condi¬ 
ments  ;  but  the  oxalic  acid ,  w’hich  is  usually  sold  in  crys¬ 
tals,  has  been  often  mistaken  for  some  of  the  purging  salts; 
when  taken  into  the  stomach  in  quantity,  it  proves  a  fatal 
poison.  Of  vinegar  we  have  before  spoken.  See  p.  186. 

A  few  other  vegetable  principles  may  be  mentioned ;  such 
is  that  curious  substance  camphor  obtained  from  trees  of 
the  bay  tribe  growing  in  the  East  Indies;  but  it  is  said  that 
several  plants  growing  in  this  country  contain  also  camphor, 
particularly  rosemary,  sage,  lavender,  and  marjoram. 
Another  is  too  important  to  be  passed  over ;  it  is  called  by 
some  chemists  morphia  or  the  narcotic  principle ;  it  is 


PRINCIPLES  OF  VEGETABLES. 


203 


found  in  several  vegetables,  and  particularly  in  the  white 
poppy.  See  Fixed  Oils,  p.  201.  Another  singular  sub¬ 
stance  found  in  many  of  the  laurel  tribe  and  most  of  the 
kernels  of  the  drupaceous  fruits,  such  as  the  almond,  &c. 
is  the  prussic  acid,  one  of  the  most  virulent  poisons  known. 
We  have  before  adverted  to  this  substance,  and  shall,  most 
probably,  again  speak  of  it  in  a  subsequent  portion  of  our 
work.  The  cook  need  not  be  therefore  surprised  at  the 
strong  language  which  we  have  occasionally  used  when 
speaking  of  the  use  of  bay-leaves,  &c.  &c.  See  Bay, 
p.  194.  Wax  may  be  also  mentioned  as  a  vegetable  pro¬ 
duction  altered  in  some  way,  it  appears,  in  its  collection  or 
afterwards  by  the  bee  ;  the  uses  of  wax  are  well  known. 
There  is,  however,  besides  the  wax  obtained  from  the  bee,  a 
sort  of  green  wax  obtained  from  the  leaves  and  other  parts 
of  the  candleberry  myrtle,  the  myrica  cerifera,  a  native  of 
some  of  the  warmer  parts  of  North  America;  but  this  wax 
is,  in  its  properties,  considerably  different  from  bees’  wax; 
indeed  it  is  more  like  a  very  hard  and  brittle  suet ;  a  wax 
may  be  also  obtained  by  bruising  and  boiling  the  leaves  of 
many  other  plants  in  water. 

Note,  that  there  are  several  other  substances  found  in 
particular  vegetables,  which  can  scarcely  be  arranged  under 
any  of  the  preceding  heads:  they  are  those  which  constitute 
the  peculiar  qualities  of  some  vegetables,  as  well  alimentary 
as  medicinal.  Thus,  that  from  asparagus  is  called  aspa- 
ragin;  from  the  roots  of  ipecacuanha,  emetin ;  from  quassia, 
the  bitter  principle ;  from  the  hop,  lupulin;  from  tobacco, 
nicotin,  a  very  destructive  poison ;  from  the  Peruvian  bark, 
quinine,  a  very  useful  medicine,  &c.  &c. 

We  have  thus  s-iven  the  cook  a  short  view  of  the  most 
important  principles  of  which  vegetable  substances  are  com¬ 
posed;  it  is  true,  to  many  of  these  in  the  cookery  of  food 
she  will  not  often  have  her  attention  called;  yet  in  the 
cookery  for  the  sick  the  better  she  is  acquainted  with  all 
these  the  better  she  will  be  enabled  to  perform  her  function 
as  a  cook  ;  and,  if  to  the  office  of  a  cook,  she  add  that  of  a 
nurse,  suck  knowledge  will  become  invaluable  to  her  and 
to  those  upon  whom  she  may  be  called  to  attend.  We  can¬ 
not  here  enter  more  into  this  subject ;  if  further  information 
be  desired,  a  reference  to  our  Family  Cyclopaedia, 


1 


204 


WHEAT  —  FLOUR. 


under  the  several  subjects  mentioned,  will  afford  it,  and, 
we  hope,  be  more  satisfactory.  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider  the  most  useful  and  important  vegetables  employed 
as  food. 

WHEAT  being,  as  we  have  stated  above,  at  the  head  of 
all  vegetables  as  food,  demands  our  first  notice.  It  is  the 
seed  of  more  than  one  species  of  the  genus  triticum,  a  sort 
of  grass,  either  cultivated  or  growing  wild  in  various  places 
in  most  of  the  civilized  countries  of  the  world.  The  triticum 
hybernum,  winter,  Lammas,  or  common  wheat,  of  which 
there  are  many  varieties,  is  the  plant  whence  the  chief  part 
of  the  wheat  which  we  consume  is  obtained ;  there  is,  how¬ 
ever,  another  species,  the  triticum  restivum,  summer  or 
spring  wheat,  so  called  because  it  is  sown  in  the  spring, 
which  has  been  introduced  into  this  country.  Winter 
wheat  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  Sicily  and  the  warmer  parts 
of  Asia  ;  spring  wheat  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Tartary : 
both  are  annual  plants.  Of  the  varieties  of  wheat,  it  is 
not  necessary  we  should  speak  further  than  to  observe  some 
of  them  have  bearded  ears,  others  have  the  ears  without 
the  appendage  of  a  beard;  this  last  is  by  far  the  most  com¬ 
monly  cultivated  in  this  country,  and  is  said  to  afford  the 
finest  flour. 

Of  the  nutritive  properties  of  wheat,  according  to  the 
analysis  of  Sir  Humphry  Davy,  the  whole  quantity  in  one 
thousand  parts  was  961,  of  which  mucilage  or  starch  con¬ 
stituted  722  parts,  and  gluten  or  albumen  239  parts;  this 
was,  however,  the  product  of  Sicilian  wheat;  spring  wheat 
produced  940  parts  of  nutritive  matter,  of  which  700  parts 
were  starch,  and  240  parts  gluten.  The  proportion  of  these 
ingredients  varies  in  different  wheats,  but  the  average  por¬ 
tion  of  gluten  in  all  is  most  commonly  more  than  200. 
There  is  besides  in  wheat  a  portion  of  sugar,  which  causes 
it  to  undergo,  when  reduced  into  flour,  and  moistened  with 
water,  a  peculiar  fermentation,  during  which  is  extricated 
not  only  carbonic  acid  gas,  but  also  a  portion  of  spirit  or 
alcohol,  the  product  of  such  fermentation :  this  spirit  has 
been  latterly  collected  by  a  particular  process,  of  which  we 
shall  say  more  under  Baking.  From  this  analysis  of 
wheat,  and  from  what  has  been  said  above  under  Gluten, 
its  nutritive  properties  may  be  readily  estimated ;  but  it  is, 


WHEAT— FLOU  R. 


205 


nevertheless,  indispensible  to  the  cook  to  know  that  wheat 
flour,  being  merely  mixed  with  water,  and  baked  or  boiled 
very  slightly,  produces,  when  taken  into  the  stomach,  con¬ 
siderable  distention  and  disturbance;  so  that,  although  un¬ 
der  suitable  management,  it  is  the  most  nutritious  of  vege¬ 
tables,  yet,  by  mismanagement,  it  may  and  often  does  pro¬ 
duce  the  greatest  inconvenience  to  the  stomach,  the  bowels, 
and  even  to  the  brain:  this  inconvenience  is  produced 
chiefly  from  the  disposition  which  flour  has  of  entering, 
when  moistened,  and  more  especially  when  introduced  into 
the  stomach,  into  almost  immediate  fermentation;  hence 
the  necessity  for  its  being  fermented  previously  to  being- 
made  into  bread ;  and  hence  also  the  absolute  necessity  for 
its  being  well  boiled  in  the  shape  of  puddings,  &c. ;  and 
hence  the  chief  cause,  namely,  the  absence  of  previous  fer¬ 
mentation,  that  baked  pastry  is  often  so  troublesome  a 
guest  in  the  human  stomach.  It  is  true  there  are  some 
stomachs  possessing  such  strong  powers,  that  not  even  un¬ 
leavened  bread  nor  unfermented  pastry  can  disturb  them; 
but  these  are  exceptions,  and  belong,  for  the  most  part,  to 
the  labouring  portion  of  our  rural  population. 

From  what  has  been  said,  it  will  be  readily  seen  why 
wheat  flour  is  not  suitable  for  the  food  of  infants  without  being 
previously  fermented;  amongst  the  intelligent  in  this  coun¬ 
try  this  fact  has  been  long  known  ;  but  it  is  greatly  to  be 
feared  that,  even  now,  many  uninformed  persons  too  often 
gorge  their  children  and  infants  with  a  pap  made  in 
haste  with  milk  or  water  and  -wheat  flour:  to  infants 
such  a  preparation  is  peculiarly  injurious ;  the  practice 
ese  now  adopted  by  the  intelligent  classes  of  society  of  forming 
or-  Infant’s  pap  from  those  well  fermented  and  well  baked 
cakes  called  tops  and  bottoms,  or  from  well  fermented  and 
well  baked  biscuits,  is  by  far  the  best,  such  food  being 
much  more  suitable  to  the  infant’s  digestive  functions,  and 
►consequently  less  liable  to  make  it  peevish,  fretful,  and 
iiseased.* 


ises 


*  It  is  pleasant  to  find  the  intelligence  of  our  neighbours,  the 
rench,  keeping  pace  with  ours.  “  On  fait,”  says  M.  Morin,  in 
'  -  ris  Manuel  d’Hygiene,  under  the  article  Bit,  “  avec  le  lait  et  la 
arine  de  froment  une  bouillie,  autrefois  tres  usitee  pour  la  nour- 
lture  des  enfans  du  premier  age,  mais  elle  leur  fatigue  l’estomac, 


206 


DRY  TOAST — BREAD. 


We  may  here,  too,  make  a  few  observations  on  those 
well-known  slices  of  bread,  so  frequently  attendant  on  our 
breakfast-tables,  called  dry  toast ,  which  when  cold  and 
spread  over  with  butter,  agrees  with  many  stomachs  so 
well,  and  so  much  better  than  plain  bread  and  butter  ;  the 
cause,  however,  of  its  so  agreeing  does  not  seem  to  be  gene¬ 
rally  understood,  although  the  fact  is  undoubted.  It  is 
well  known,  too,  that  new  bread  is  also  very  injurious  to 
the  stomach,  and  that  in  general  bread  ought  to  be  at 
least  twenty- four  hours  old  before  it  is  eaten ;  this  proves 
that  there  is  something  injurious  which  escapes  from  the 
bread  during  its  cooling,  or  that  it  undergoes  some  other 
change  favourable  to  digestion.  In  the  toasting  of  slices 
of  bread  we  believe  that  another  agent  is  brought  into 
action,  namely,  some  alkaline  salt,  most  probably  potash  ; 
we  know  that  potash  is  obtained  from  the  ashes  of  vegeta¬ 
bles;  and  there  is  no  improbability  in  the  supposition  that 
the  potash  in  the  bread  is  set  in  part  free,  and  on  the  bread’s 
entering  the  stomach,  it  may  combine  with  any  acid  which 
might  form  or  be  found  there,  and  thus  contribute  to  the 
healthy  action  of  the  digestive  functions.  But,  although 
Fashion  may  prescribe,  as  we  know  it  sometimes  does, 
that  the  brownest  and  darkest  part  of  the  toast  shall  be  re¬ 
moved  in  order  to  render  it  of  a  more  uniform  colour,  as 
well  as  to  get  rid  of  a  bitter  taste  which  toasted  bread  occa¬ 
sionally  has  ;  yet,  if  the  doctrine  here  laid  down  be  correct, 
the  best  part  of  the  toast  by  such  a  process  will  be  taken 
away.* 

These  remarks  may  seem  of  trifling  moment;  they  are 
not  so ;  every  thing  which  concerns  digestion  ought  to  be 
attended  toby  the  intelligent  cook.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  many  of  the  inconveniences  attributed  to  butter,  when 
eaten  with  bread,  arise  much  more  frequently  from  the 

les  nourrit  mal  en  raison  de  la  dilliculte  qu’ils  eprouvent  a  la 
digerer.” 

*  An  additional  proof  of  this  doctrine  consists  in  the  fact  that 
well-baked  white  bread  has  a  tendency,  for  several  days  after  it 
is  baked,  and  when  exposed  to  the  air,  to  become  dry  :  dry  toast, 
on  the  contrary,  very  soon  after  it  is  prepared,  absoros  moisture 
from  the  air,  and  becomes,  consequently,  soft  and  moist ;  the  best 
time  of  eating  it  is  as  soon  as  it  is  cold  ;  not  certainly  w'hen  it  has 
become  moist. 


BREAD  —  PUDDING  —  BARLEY.  207 

bread  than  the  butter :  and  this  because  the  bread  is  eaten 
|  too  new  or  not  properly  fermented,  or  from  both  causes  com¬ 
bined.  See  below  what  is  said  concerning-  Puddings  with 
Fat.  See  also  our  Chapter  on  Baking  Bread  forwards. 
There  is  one  other  subject  connected  with  wheat  and 

(wheat  flour  that  deserves  the  cook’s  attention ;  it  is  this : 
that  both  in  boiling-  and  in  baking  it,  when  made  into  paste 
and  not  previously  fermented,  an  admixture  of  some  fat 
with  it,  and  particularly  mutton  or  beef  suet,  renders  it 
more  suitable  for  the  stomach.  This  is  exemplified  in  what 
is  called  plain  suet  pudding,  which  when  well  boiled,  and 
it  can  scarcely  be  boiled  too  much,  suits  the  stomach  better 
than  any  other  pudding-  made  with  wheat  flour;  add  fruit 
and  sweetmeats  to  the  same  kind  of  pudding-,  and  you  ren¬ 
der  it  at  once  very  indigestible  by  many  stomachs.  This 
arises  chiefly  from  the  sugar  and  the  other  matter  in  the 
fruit  and  sweetmeats  which  go  into  fermentation  as  soon  as 
they  enter  the  stomach.  The  same  may  be  said  of  baked 
pudding,  with  this  difference,  that  the  flour  in  the  paste,  as 
well  as  the  fruit,  not  being  immersed  in  water  as  the  boiled 
pudding  is,  cannot  give  out  its  fermenting  qualities,  and 
hence,  together  with  the  excessive  heat  which  produces  a 
sort  of  rancidity  of  the  fat  employed,  baked  puddings,  of 
which  wheat  flour  is  the  basis,  as  well  as  pies,  are  for  the 
dyspeptic  extremely  unwholesome,  and  ought  therefore  to 
■  be  scrupulously  avoided.  We  shall  advert  to  this  subject 
£  again  under  our  Chapter  on  Puddings  and  Pies. 

1;  Note. — We  are  disposed  to  consider  the  admixture  of  fat 
'  with  four  not  only  desirable,  because  the  fat  is,  when  em- 
?  ployed  in  moderate  quantity,  nutritious,  but  as  more  imme- 
i  diately  useful  in  comminuting  or  much  separating  the 
gluten,  so  as  to  render  it  more  susceptible  of  being  acted 
upon  by  the  digestive  powers,  and  thus  more  easily  con- 
j  verted  into  nutriment.  We  consider  fat  mixed  with  flour 
similar  to  fat  cheese;  the  fat  or  butter  of  the  milk  being 
mixed  in  tolerable  quantity  with  the  albumen  or  curd  of  the 
milk,  it  is  thus  rendered  more  digestible  and  wholesome; 
whereas  cheese  without  fat,  as  every  one  knows,  is  at  once 
indigestible  and  unwholesome. 

BARLEY  is  the  seed  of  the  hordeum  distichon,  or 
common  cultivated  barley,  the  native  country  of  which  is 


208 


BARLEY — BYE. 


not  exactly  ascertained.  Besides  this  species  three  others 
are  also  cultivated :  the  hordeum  hexastichon,  or  winter 
barley,  called  in  Scotland  bear  or  bigg ,  which  has  six  rows 
in  the  ear;  the  common  barley  has  only  two;  the  hordeum 
vulgare,  or  spring1  barley;  and  the  hordeum  zeocriton, 
or  battledore  barley  ;  they  are  all  annual  plants. 

The  chief  use  of  barley  is,  in  this  country,  after  its 
being  converted  into  malt,  for  brewing  various  malt  liquors, 
and  for  obtaining  alcohol  or  spirit  of  wine  with  which  gin 
and  many  other  spirituous  liquors  are  made.  The  consti¬ 
tuents  of  barley  are,  in  1000  parts  about  920  of  nutritive 
matter,  790  of  which  are  starch,  70  of  sugar,  and  60  only 
of  gluten  ;  hence,  from  the  small  quantity  of  gluten  which 
it  contains,  it  does  not  make  good  bread;  but  from  its  large 
proportion  of  sugar,  which  its  conversion  into  malt  con¬ 
siderably  increases,  it  becomes  a  very  important  article  in 
our  diet.  It  is,  nevertheless,  employed  on  many  other 
occasions :  in  Scotland  and  some  other  countries  it  is 
used  in  considerable  quantities  for  broths,  soups,  &c. :  for 
this  purpose  it  is  freed  from  the  husks  and  the  ends  of  the 
grains  taken  off ;  in  this  state  it  is  known  by  the  name  of 
Scotch  barley ;  being  still  more  freed  from  its  brown  in¬ 
teguments,  and  the  white,  middle,  and  best  portion  of  the 
grain  only  retained,  it  is  called  pearl  barley  ;  in  this  state 
it  is  also  occasionally  employed  in  cookery,  and  more 
especially  for  the  sick.  There  has  been,  also,  lately  in¬ 
troduced  a  flour  of  it  called  prepared  barley,  which  is,  on 
many  occasions,  very  useful  to  make  gruel  and  even  barley 
water,  either  of  which  with  such  flour  may  be  made  by 
simple  boiling  in  water  in  a  very  few  minutes.  Barley, 
although  containing  sugar  in  considerable  quantity,  is  from 
its  small  portion  of  gluten  much  better  suited  to  many 
stomachs  than  wheat  flour ;  and  hence  its  uses  in  cookery 
for  the  sick.  Barley,  as  well  as  barley  meal,  is  used  for 
fattening  poultry  and  pigs.  Prepared  barley,  in  the 
absence  of  fine  starch,  may  be  employed  instead  of  wheat 
flour  in  thickening  gravies,  &c.  Although  barley  bread  is 
occasionally  made  and  eaten,  it  is  very  inferior  every  way 
to  that  made  from  wheat. 

RYE  is  the  seed  of  the  secale  cereale,  an  annual  plant 
supposed  to  have  been  originally  brought  from  the  island 


RYE  —  OATS  —  GRITS. 


209 

of  Crete.  Its  constituents  are,  in  1000  parts  of  nutritive 
matter  about  792,  of  which  645  are  starch,  38  sugar,  and 
109  gluten;  rye  is,  therefore,  after  wheat,  the  most  pro¬ 
per  grain  for  making  bread,  for  which  it  is  sometimes 
employed,  alone  or  mixed  with  wheat  flour.  Rye  is  also 
used  for  the  making  of  spirits ;  it  is  liable  to  a  peculiar 
ts  disease,  when  it  is  called  horned  or  spurred  rye,  in  which 
state  it  is  covered  with  a  violet-coloured  skin,  and  becomes 
engthened  into  a  horn  or  spur,  whence  its  name  ;  in  this 
state  it  is  poisonous,  producing,  when  eaten,  pains  in  the 
imbs,  and  spots  and  gangrenous  ulcers  on  the  surface  of 
the  body.  Rye  is,  it  is  said,  often  used  by  the  ginger- 
iread  bakers  instead  of  wheat  flour. 

OATS  are  the  seeds  of  the  avena  sativa,  an  annual 
slant  much  cultivated  throughout  Europe  and  in  Great 
Britain.  It  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  Chili.  Of  oats  there 
ire  many  varieties — white,  black,  brown,  red,  &c.  An- 
)ther  species  of  oats,  the  avena  nuda,  naked  oats,  or  pil¬ 
ot  ?orn,  is  a  native  of  this  country;  but  this,  as  well  as  several 
jther  wild  kinds,  are  of  no  esteem  as  food. 

The  cultivated  oats,  although  not  of  such  importance  as 
vheat  or  barley,  are  nevertheless  of  great  use  on  many 
tccasions  as  human  food.  We  use  them,  when  deprived 
)f  their  husks,  under  the  name  of  groats  or  grits,  and 
:  ilso  as  oatmeal;  both  of  which  are  employed  for  the 
naking  of  gruel,  and  for  which  the  oat  is  peculiarly 


good 


idapted.  We  advise,  however,  when  very  pure  and 
;ruel  is  desired,  that  it  should  be  obtained  from  sweet 
vhole  groats  rather  than  from  oatmeal ;  the  groats  should 
>e  bruised  beneath  the  rolling-pin  before  being  put  in  to 
nMoil.  Besides  being  used  for  gruel,  oats  are  in  Wales  and 


he  northern  parts  of  our  island,  otherwise  employed  as 
rdinary  food,  made  into  porridge  or  into  cakes.  The 
onstituents  of  oats  are  in  1000  parts,  of  nutritive  matter 
bout  743,  of  which  641  parts  are  starch,  15  only  are 
ugar,  and  87  gluten.  From  the  small  quantity  of  sugar 
vhich  is  contained  in  oats,  together  with  some  other  pecu- 
iarity  in  them  not  at  present  well  understood,  they  are 
veil  suited  to  the  sick  and  convalescent;  as  well  as,  indeed, 
,t  night,  as  a  light  supper  when  made  into  gruel  even  for 
ersons  in  health.  The  only  addition  that  such  gruel 


210 


PEAS - GREEN,  DRY. 


requires  is  salt ;  some  will  add  sugar  to  it,  but  this  for  the 
dyspeptic  and  the  sick  will  be  generally  injurious.  The 
best  addition  to  gruel  besides  salt  is  well  boiled  currants, 
i.  e.  the  Corinth  raisin  of  the  shops;  the  acidulous  pro¬ 
perties  of  these  have  a  tendency  to  relax  the  bowels,  and 
thus  what  is  offensive  to  the  stomach  may  be  carried  off. 

PEAS  are  the  seeds  of  the  pisum  sativum,  a  well  known 
annual  plant,  of  which  there  are  many  varieties.  The  pea 
is  said  to  be  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe ;  it  has  been 
cultivated  for  ages  in  this  country.  The  constituents  of 
peas  are  in  1000  parts,  of  nutritive  matter  574,  of  which 
501  parts  are  starch,  22  sugar,  and  35  parts  of  gluten, 
and  16  parts  of  extractive  matter.  We  see,  therefore, 
how  far  below  wheat  are  peas  in  their  nutritive  properties. 
Peas  are  distinguished  when  eaten  green  into  early  and 
late;  one  of  the  chief  early  peas  is  the  Charlton  ;  of  the 
late  peas  the  marrowfat  is  one  of  the  best.  Green  peas 
ought  always  to  be  eaten  young,  if  you  desire  to  have  them 
so  that  they  may  agree  with  the  stomach  ;  when  they  are 
old  they  are  very  windy  ;  they  are  most  wholesome  when 
eaten  with  some  stimulating  animal  food,  such  as  roasted 
mutton.  Almost  innumerable  dishes  are  made  with  peas, 
both  green  and  dry ;  we  cannot  enumerate  them. 

TO  BOIL  GREEN  PEAS.  After  the  peas  are  shelled 
and  washed,  put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  to 
which  add  a  small  portion  of  salt;  when  they  are  tender 
they  are  done.  You  may  put  a  piece  of  butter  to  them  in 
your  dish  ;  or  you  may  send  up  with  them  melted  butter 
in  a  boat.  Some,  indeed  most  persons,  in  London,  boil 
with  them  a  bunch  of  green  mint,  which  is  usually  served 
up  with  them  ;  or  it  may  be  minced  and  placed  in  lumps 
upon  the  edge  of  the  dish.  Others  choose  boiled  parsley 
with  them  instead  of  mint.  The  green  liquor  makes  an 
elegant  broth. 

Note. — Most  of  our  cookery  books  direct  peas  to  be 
boiled  with  the  addition  of  a  lump  of  sugar— why,  we  do 
not  know  ;  we  believe  it  to  be  quite  unnecessary. 

TO  BOIL  DRY  PEAS.  Dry  peas  differ  exceedingly 
in  their  qualities  as  to  boiling  ;  some  are  with  the  greatest 
difficulty  made  tender  by  the  longest  boiling;  others,  again, 
become  soft  very  readily ;  it  is  desirable  therefore  to  know, 


PEAS — BEANS. 


211 


if  possible,  before  you  set  any  large  quantity  to  boil,  whe¬ 
ther  they  are  good  boilers  or  not.  In  towns  where  split 
'peas  can  be  readily  obtained,  and  which  are  most  com¬ 
monly  used  for  puddings  and  soups,  some  of  the  trouble  of 
long  boiling  is  superseded  ;  but  when  you  boil  whole  peas 
it  is  necessary  that  they  should  be  soaked  in  water  for 
twelve  or  more  hours  before  being  submitted  to  the  boiling 
process ;  by  these  means  the  process  is  considerably  acce¬ 
lerated.  In  boiling  them  a  good  portion  of  salt  will  also 
be  a  very  useful  addition  to  the  wrnter.  The  water  in 
which  they  have  been  soaked  should  be  thrown  away ;  and 
it  will  be  found  the  best  method,  after  adding  fresh  water 
and  the  salt  to  them,  to  put  the  whole  over  the  fire  cold. 
The  liquor  from  good  boiling  dry  peas  makes  an  excellent 
broth  ;  it  may  be  flavoured  with  what  you  please.  Dry 
boiled  peas  are  a  homely,  but  eaten  with  bacon  or  with 
ilmost  any  other  animal  food,  are  a  good  winter  dish ; 
pepper  is  always  eaten  with  them  :  at  the  same  time  the 
lyspeptic  must  avoid  it. 

Peas  wall  also  make  a  good  family  dish  by  being  baked ; 
^ou  may  put  in  with  them  any  cold  meat  and  bones  which 
,'ou  might  happen  to  have.  It  should  be  submitted  to  a 
rot  oven. 

BEx4NS  are  the  seeds  of  the  vicia  faba,  an  annual 
plant,  a  native  of  the  east  and  Egypt ;  there  are  several 
■rarieties ;  the  Windsor  beans,  and  the  small  kind  called 
'torse  beans,  because  much  employed  in  feeding  horses, 
ire  best  known.  Beans  are  chiefly  known  to  the  cook  in 
-  jheir  green  state.  The  constituents  of  beans  are,  in  1000 
)arts,  of  nutritive  matter  570,  starch  426,  gluten  103,  and 
■xtractive  matter  41.  Next  therefore  to  rye,  beans  con- 
ain  the  greatest  quantity  of  gluten,  and  are  consequently 
alculated  for  making  bread,  although  the  bean  is  well 
mown,  as  a  food,  to  be  very  flatulent;  indeed,  it  is  said 
Jjiat  the  bakers  put  a  considerable  quantity  of  bean  flour  in 
heir  wheaten  bread  which  renders  it  much  less  fitted  for 
he  stomach. 

Although  parched  horse  beans  are  well  known  to  chil- 
ren  in  the  country,  and  by  them  eaten  with  avidity,  yet 
hey  are  apt,  if  eaten  in  great  quantity,  to  produce  unplea- 
ant  symptoms  :  it  is  true  they  were  given  to  the  poor,  and 


212 


POTATOES. 


boiled  and  eaten  by  them,  not  without  considerable  mur¬ 
muring-,  in,  the  times  of  scarcity  in  the  years  1800  and  1801  i 
and  it  is  also  true  that,  while  the  slave-trade  existed,  the 
slaves  in  the  middle  passage  were  fed  upon  boiled  horse-  v 
beans  and  palm  oil  used  with  them  instead  of  batter ;  yet  j 
there  seems  a  general  repugnance  to  them  in  this  country  ; 
No  doubt  bean  flour  is  often  mixed  with  wheat  flour,  anc 
sold  as  the  pure  flour  of  wheat  only. 

WINDSOR  BEANS  should  be  boiled,  after  being  j 
shelled,  in  plenty  of  water,  with  a  considerable  portion  o;  j 
salt  in  it.  When  they  are  tender  they  are  done.  The}  i 
should  be  served  up  with  boiled  parsley  chopped  fine,  anc  i 
mixed  with  melted  butter. 

Note. — Some  will  boil  beans  with  bacon  or  other  meat  iq 
but  if  you  desire  to  have  them  delicate, 
always  boiled  alone. 

POTATOES  are  the  well  known  tubers  of  a  perennia  ; 
plant,  the  Solarium  tuberosum ,  a  native  of  South  America  j 
they  belong  to  the  nightshade  tribe,  and  hence  some  per  « 
sons  have  fancied  that  they  are  occasionally  injurious  whe* 
eaten  as  food  ;  but  the  daily  experience  of  mankind  prove; 
that  this  notion  is  erroneous.  They  were  not  known  in  thi; 
country  till  towards  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century ;  anc 
are  supposed  to  have  been  introduced  by  Sir  Walter  Raleigl 
or  his  followers.  The  constituents  of  potatoes  are  in  100(  ; 
parts,  of  nutritive  matter  from  200  to  260  parts,  of  whicl 
from  155  to  200  parts  are  starch,  from  15  to  20  sugar,  anc 
from  30  to  40  gluten  ;  compared  with  the  dry  grains  pota 
toes  appear  considerably  below  them  in  nutritive  properties ; 
but  as  they  consist  in  their  raw  state  of  a  considerable  por 
tion  of  water,  they  become,  when  well  boiled  and  renderec 
dry  and  mealy,  of  no  mean  estimation  as  human  food  ;  it  is 
true  they  cannot  be  made  into  good  bread,  but  being  mixec 
in  a  certain  proportion  with  wheat  flour,  they  make  sucl 
bread  at  once  agreeable  and  wholesome. 

The  potatoe  consists  of  numerous  varieties,  both  white 
and  red;  and  it  is,  perhaps,  difficult  to  say  which  are  the 
best;  we  believe,  nevertheless,  that  preference  should  be 
given  to  those  of  the  kidney  kind,  among  other  reason; 
because  from  their  being  flatter  in  their  form  they  boi 
sooner,  the  heat  penetrating  them  more  readily  than  it  doe; 


they  should 


be 


POTATOES. 


213 


he  large  round  potatoe.  They  are  dressed  in  various  ways; 
'some  of  our  cotemporaries  boast  of  the  numerous  methods 
;hich  they  present  to  their  readers  for  dressing  this  pleasant 
d  very  useful  root ;  a  root  that  is  eaten  and  relished  by 
erhaps  more  persons  in  temperate  climates,  than,  for  a 
ontinuance,  can  be  any  other  vegetable  production  except 
read  ;  and  it  appears  also  to  suit  almost  every  stomach, 
though  an  exception  to  this  will  now  and  then  be  found. 
vVe  shall  not  imitate  our  brethren  by  such  details,  because 
ew  cooks  of  ordinary  capacity  will  be  at  a  loss,  after  the 
general  directions  which  we  are  laying  down,  to  cook  a 
>otatoe  in  any  way  that  may  be  useful  and  agreeable. 

Some  methods  of  cooking  them  have  been  already  ad- 
erted  to,  see  page  76.  We  may  observe  here  that  potatoes 
.re  usually  prepared  for  food  either  by  boiling  in  water,  the 
nost  common  method,  and  in  our  judgment  by  far  the  best ; 
»y  steam  ;  by  being  roasted  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the 
ire  or  on  the  hot  hob  of  a  fire  place  ;  or  by  being-  baked 


ither  in  an  oven,  or  covered  over  with  very  hot  ashes,  or 
>y  being  cut  into  thin  slices  and  fried  in  butter,  dripping, 
>r  other  fat.  Another  plan  has  lately  been  introduced,  and 
irevails  in  London  to  a  certain  extent,  and  that  is  of  sub- 
nitting  them  in  a  thick  bottomed  iron  saucepan  with  a  tight 
over  to  the  action  of  fire  without  the  addition  of  any 
rater.  Of  this  we  can  state,  that  although  potatoes  so 
ressed  may  suit  the  stomachs  of  the  healthy  and  robust, 
hey  will  be  found  to  disagree  with  the  delicate  and  the 
yspeptic :  and  for  this  reason,  that  the  sugar  which  the 
iotatoe  contains  is  retained  in  them  after  they  are  dressed, 
nd,  consequently,  is  disposed  to  ferment  in  the  stomach, 
nd  hence  arise  many  unpleasant  consequences ;  whereas, 
rhen  the  potatoes  are  boiled  in  water,  the  sugar  is  washed 
ut,  and  their  disposition  to  ferment  removed ;  this  argu- 
aent  will  apply  also  in  some  degree  to  roasted  as  well  as 
o  baked  and  fried  potatoes  ;  but  steam  is  different  in  this 
espect,  that,  it  being  water  in  a  high  state  of  heat,  there 
i  an  opportunity  for  the  sugar  to  become  extracted. 

But  there  is  one  other  consideration  of  some  moment  in 
ressing  potatoes,  and  that  is,  in  whatever  way  they  maybe 
ressed,  it  is  particularly  desirable  while  they  remain  very 
ot  that  they  should  be  exposed,  for  a  short  time  at  least,  to 


214 


POTATOES. 


the  air ;  by  this  means  the  water  in  them  escapes  the  more 
readily,  and  they  thus  become  mealy  ;  but  we  believe  that, 
besides  the  water  of  the  potatoe  which  escapes,  of  course,  in 
steam,  there  is  some  other  gaseous  matter  which  escapes 
that  is  peculiarly  injurious  to  the  digestive  powers:  not 
only  should  boiled  potatoes  be  thus  treated,  but  potatoes 
dressed  in  whatever  way  besides ;  after  they  are  roasted  or 
baked,  they  should  be  cut  lengthwise  in  two  while  hot,  so 
that  the  water  or  other  volatile  matter  may  escape  before 
they  are  eaten. 

BOILED  POTATOES.  These  will  be  best  boiled 
after  being  properly  cleansed  and  the  eyes,  &c.  picked  out, 
with  the  skins  on ;  they  should  be  put  into  an  iron  saucepan 
with  just  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them  ;  set  them  on 
the  fire  to  boil  and  when  you  can  pass  a  fork  easily  through 
them,  or  when  the  skins  begin  to  crack,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  and  hold  them  occasionally  over  the  fire,  shaking 
them  up  in  the  saucepan,  so  that  all  may  be  equally  ex¬ 
posed  to  the  air  and  they  will  soon  be  done.  The  circular 
and  moveable  iron,  with  which  most  good  grates  are  fur¬ 
nished,  will  assist  the  cook  in  this  particular  very  much 
After  the  potatoes  are  boiled  they  may  be  served  up  with  or 
without  the  skins  as  may  be  desired  :  many  persons  think 
the  skins  unwholesome ;  we  never  knew  any  one  injured 
from  eating  them  ;  they  contain  a  peculiar  flavour  that  is  to 
many  very  agreeable. 

Note. — Some  add  salt  in  boiling  potatoes ;  and  some¬ 
times,  where  they  do  not  boil  readily,  salt  may  accelerate 
the  process ;  but  salt  is  not  in  general  necessary.  Butter  is 
always  a  useful  addition  to  potatoes. 

SCOLLOPED  POTATOES  are  usually  beaten  fine 
with  butter  or  cream  and  some  salt ;  or  instead  of  butter  or 
cream,  some  use  milk.  They  are  put  into  scollop  shells  01 
tins,  whence  their  names,  with  bits  of  butter  on  the  top, 
and  browned  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire. 

MASHED  POTATOES  are  prepared  by  being  mixed 
with  butter,  milk,  or  cream,  or  even  some  sweet  dripping. 
The  potatoes  being  well  boiled,  mealy,  and  freed  from  the 
skins,  must  be  beaten  into  a  smooth  mass  with  a  wooden 
spoon  and  then  be  mixed  with  the  butter,  or  whatever  other 
fat  or  liquid  you  may  choose,  with  also  a  little  salt ;  after 


POTATOE  STARCH - RICE. 


215 


tvhich  let  the  mixture  be  made  carefully  hot  and  kept  as 
dean  and  as  white  as  possible.  The  cook  will  take  care  to 
make  the  surface  of  the  dish  smooth,  or  chequer  it  with  the 
jack  of  a  knife. 

POTATOE  STARCH.  Having  again  and  again  alluded 
in  our  work  to  this  very  useful  article,  it  is  here  necessary 
that  we  should  describe  the  method  in  which  it  is  to  be 
jbtained  ;  it  consists  simply  in  grating  raw  potatoes  well 
deansed  from  their  impurities,  into  a  coarse  hair  sieve 
ijj  daced  over  a  pan ;  the  starch  will  separate  from  the  grated 
matter,  and  may  be  washed  from  it  with  water  into  the  pan. 
4fter  the  starch  has  subsided  to  the  bottom  of  the  water, 
he  water  may  be  poured  off ;  the  starch  will  appear  as  a 
ine  white  sand ;  it  may  be  dried  before  the  fire  or  in  any 
Jther  convenient  way. 

No te.  —  Although  we  call  tYnspotatoe  starch,  yet  from  the 
post  extensive  inquiry  it  appears  that  starch  from  every  sort 
)f  vegetable  is  essentially  the  same  whether  it  be  obtained  from 
Potatoes,  wheat,  rice,  or  under  the  terms  of  arrovo-root, 
tapioca,  sago,  salep,  &c.  &c.  It  is  true  that  in  the  starch 
detained  from  the  potatoes  the  particles  are  more  crystalline 
han  that  obtained  from  some  other  vegetables,  but  it  differs 
>n  no  other  account.  The  French,  we  observe,  now  direct 
jotatoe  starch  to  be  employed  in  thickening  broths,  &c. 
?ee  Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise,  8th  Edit.  Paris,  1830.  See 
.  pT arch  above.  > 

RICE  is  the  seed  of  an  annual  plant,  the  oryza  sativa, 
upposed  to  be  a  native  of  Ethiopia,  but  now  cultivated  in 
he  south  of  Europe,  as  well  as  in  various  wrarm  regions  of 
*(he  earth,  especially  the  East  Indies  and  America.  There 
s  said  to  be  only  one  species  of  this  plant,  but  there  are, 
tevertheless,  many  varieties ;  the  best  rice  is  that  obtained 
from  Carolina.  The  rice,  as  we  find  it  in  the  shops,  is  a 
vhitish  grain  freed  from  its  husks.  It  constitutes  the  chief 
>art  of  the  food  of  the  common  people  of  India  ;  it  is,  how- 
ver,  in  this  country  considered  rather  as  a  dainty  than  a 
necessary  ;  its  chief  constituent  is  starch  ;  indeed,  ground 
<:  'ice  will  supply  the  place  of  starch  for  many  coarse  purposes  ; 
his  article  was  some  years  since,  and  perhaps  now  is,  em- 
>loyed  as  hair  powder,  it  may  also  supply  the  place  of  flour 
n  thickening  gravies,  &c. ;  and  if  obtained  pure  and  white 


216 


RICE. 


it  may  be  advantageously  employed  in  making  gruels  and 
puddings.  See  below  Rice-Milk. 

Rice  agrees  very  well  with  most  stomachs  ;  but  it  does 
not  appear  to  be  equal  to  the  potatoe  in  its  nutritive  proper¬ 
ties  ;  we  find,  at  least,  that  the  lower  classes  prefer  the 
potatoe  to  it.  Simple  boiling  in  water  till  the  grains  are 
soft  is  all  the  preparation  necessary  to  fit  it  for  the  stomach. 
It  is  used  by  the  luxurious  in  puddings,  &c.  See  Pud¬ 
dings. 

BOILED  RICE.  We  have  alluded  to  plain  boiled  rice 
in  a  note,  page  38,  to  which  the  reader  will  refer.  But 
we  may  just  mention  here  that  one  pint  of  rice,  well  wash¬ 
ed  in  cold  water  and  afterwards  picked  clean  from  any  im¬ 
purities  which  might  be  mixed  with  it,  should  be  boiled  in 
two  quarts  of  water  till  it  becomes  tender,  when  it  must  be 
drained  in  a  colander  and  served  up.  Or  some  will  tie  the 
rice  loosely  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it ;  care  must  in  this  case  be 
taken  that  there  is  plenty  of  room  for  the  expansion  of  the 
rice,  or  the  boiling-  will  be  very  long  and  perhaps  incom¬ 
plete. 

Note.  —  Some  add  a  little  salt  to  boiled  rice  as  soon  as  it 
is  done ;  and  others  expose  it  for  a  few  minntes  to  the  fire 
in  order  to  render  it  more  dry ;  or  it  may  be  tossed  up 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
burn.  Of  course  the  cook  may  add  butter  to  it  if  it  be 
desired.  * 

RICE  TO  BE  EATEN  WITH  A  CURRIE.  Wash 
and  pick  clean  one  pound  of  rice ;  pour  two  quarts  of 
boiling  water  on  it,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  is  about  three 
parts  done ;  then  strain  and  wash  it  in  several  waters  till 
it  becomes  free  from  slime  ;  next  drain  it  in  a  large  hair 
sieve ;  when  quite  dry  put  it  into  a  stewpan  in  some  paper, 
with  the  cover  over  it ;  it  must,  lastly,  be  baked  moderately 
for  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 

RICE-MILK  is  sometimes  made  by  simmering  rice 
previously  washed  and  picked  in  good  raw  milk  ;  but  the 
time  necessary  for  doing  this  so  as  to  make  the  rice  tender 
■will  be  so  long  that  the  probability  is  the  milk  will  become 
burnt,  and  consequently  spoiled.  A  better  ivay  will  be  to 
take  rice  already  boiled  sufficiently,  and  put  what  quantity 
you  please  into  the  milk ;  then  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen 


I 


217 


green  vegetables. 


oneno?tWTw8'  nme  COndiments>  Pei>baps  cinnamon  is 
f  a  u  ,  ?r  you  maT  mix  ground  rice  with  the 
k  made  boding-  hot,  and  afterwards  simmered  for  a  few 
minutes  with  cinnamon,  to  which  you  may,  if  you  please 
add  lemon-peel  and  a  little  sugar.  '  *  }  pl  ’ 

N°te —Care  must  be  taken  to  mix  the  ground  rice  into 
a  smooth  pap,  with  a  little  cold  milk,  before  it  is  put  into 
that  which  is  scalding,  or  it  will  be  clotty  :  half  an  ounce 

mil|r°Und  nCG  W1  b<5  m°re  than  sufficient  for  a  pint  of 

VE^EETABLFSDI\TTI?NnF°R  B0ILING  GREEN 
VLGM  AhLhb.  They  should,  in  the  first  place  be  ob- 

tained,  if  possible,  from  the  garden  in  the  moraine-  0f 

feday  °n  WhlCt  tiey  are  wanted  t0  be  Pressed  :  for  they 
will  be  then  in  the  greatest  perfection.  Those  which  have 

ibeen  cut  more  than  one  or  two  days  should  be  avoided,  particu- 
ar  y  in  the  summer  season,  because  they  so  soon  go  Lto  the 


&  4  beucarefully  Paid  t0  this-  Care  must  also  be 
aken  that  they  are  nicely  picked  and  washed,  and  all  the 

putside  and  decaying  leaves  removed,  and  that  they  are 
forwards  put  into  cold  water,  to  which  some  wilf  add 
-a  t,  for  an  hour  or  more ,  before  they  are  set  to  boil  • 
his  is  particularly  necessary  with  all  greens,  in  order 
nore  effectually  to  detach  any  insects  which  may  remain 
“  th.e™:  and  wbich  all  your  care  will  rarely,  'if  ever 

completely  remove  without  it.  ’ 

!Jbe:Vi/h0Ul<?  he  foiled  in  plenty  of  water,  to  which  a 
little  salt  may  be  added,  particularly  if  the  water  be  soft 
is  also  usual  to  put  them  into  the  water  when  it  is  boilino-  i 
nd  where  the  greens  are  in  leaves  or  in  small  heads,  this  fs’ 
perhaps  the  best  practice  ;  but  if  a  large  head  of  cabbao-e 
f  bmled  whole  it  may  be  put  in  when  the  water  is  cold  • 
If*  18  noJ  a  good  practice  to  boil  large  cabbages  whole’ 

>  the  outside  will  be  done  too  much  before  the  inside  is 
I  .f  done.  They  should  be  boiled  till  they  are  tender- 
I  is  nevertheless  of  importance  that  they  should  not  be 

itsftheii^reV  I  ^  thUS  £0t  °nl-y  lose’  in  part  at 
ast,  then  gieen  colour,  upon  which  their  good  appearance 

Tends,  but  also  much  of  their  taste  an'd  nujive  pro- 

rties.  They  should  be  also  boiled  alone:  for  when 


218 


GREEN  VEGETABLES. —  CABBAGE. 


boiled  with  meat  or  bacon  they  are  usually  more  or  less 
discoloured  and  greasy ;  they  also  too  often  thus  lose  their 
peculiar  taste.  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remind  the  cook 
that  whatever  scum  arises  during  their  boiling  should  be 
carefully  taken  off.  The  quicker  too,  in  general,  that 
vegetables  boil  the  better  will  their  colour  be  preserved; 
simmering  them  is  every  way  bad.  Some,  to  preserve  or 
improve  their  colour,  will  add,  during  their  boiling,  an 
alkaline  salt,  such  as  carbonate  of  potash,*  in  small  quan¬ 
tity,  which,  although  perfectly  w'holesome,  is  not  necessary, 
if  the  boiling  be  properly  conducted. 

The  vegetables  usually  employed  in  cookery,  as  we  have 
seen  from  the  preceding  articles,  consist  of  a  large  portion 
of  starch  ;  and,  although  few  of  those  wdiich  we  shall 
have  occasion  in  this  chapter  subsequently  to  mention  have 
been  subjected  to  correct  analysis,  we  have  every  reason 
to  conclude  that  starch  enters  largely  into  the  composition 
of  most,  if  not  of  all,  of  them.  And  when  we  know  that 
starch  dissolves  in  boiling  water  very  readily,  being  de¬ 
tached  from  any  vegetable  in  which  it  is  found,  we  arrive 
at  the  conclusion  that,  even  wThen  in  the  vessels  of  vegeta¬ 
bles,  long  boiling  will  more  or  less  abstract  it  as  well  as 
other  nutritive  matter :  long  boiling ,  that  is,  boiling  more 
than  sufficient  to  make  them  tender,  eatable,  ought  always 
to  be  avoided. 

It  should  also  be  observed,  in  regard  to  the  Cabbage 
tribe  of  esculent  vegetables  in  particular,  that  the  water 
in  which  they  have  been  boiled  very  soon  becomes  pu¬ 
trescent,  nay  putrid,  so  as  to  be  extremely  offensive, 
particularly  in  its  smell ;  and  that,  hence,  it  is  necessary 
such  water  should  be,  as  soon  as  possible,  not  only7  thrown 
away,  but  that  every  vestige  of  it  should  be  also  washed 
away  tvith  plenty  of  cold  water  from  the  drains  or  other 
outlets  of  the  kitchen.  The  cause  of  this  peculiarity  in 
decoctions  of  the  cabbage  tribe  does  not  even  now  appear 
well  understood ;  the  fact  is  undoubted. f  We  cannot, 

*  In  common  language  salt  of  tartar. 

t  Dr  Lewis,  than  whom,  jierhaps,  a  more  correct  observei 
concerning  the  properties  of  vegetables  has  been  rarely  found, 
says  that,  as  cabbages  have  a  strong  tendency  to  putrefaction 
running  into  this  state  sooner  than  almost  any  other  vegetable 


219 


CABBAGE. —  KIDNEY  BEANS. 

therefore,  recommend  the  employment  of  such  liquor  as 
food  or  as  a  vehicle  for  food  under  any  circumstances. 
Hence  it  is  not  judicious  to  boil  cabbage,  nor  indeed  any 
other  greens,  with  animal  food  when  the  liquor  is  designed 
afterwards  to  be  used  as  broth.  We  fear,  however,  that 
some  economists  still  boil  cabbage  with  meat :  a  cabbage- 
net  being  a  sort  of  necessary  appendage  to  the  cooking- 
apparatus. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  are  the  unripe  pods  of  the  phaseohts 
vulgaris,  or  Dwarf  Kidney  Bean,  an  annual  plant, 
native  of  India;  and  also  of  the  phaseolus  multiflorus,  or 
Running  Kidney  Bean,  a  native  of  South  America  : 
the  first  has  been  known  in  this  country  from  or  before 
the  commencement  of  the  year  1600  ;  the  last  from  1633. 
iWhen  they  are  young,  and  capable  of  being  broken  readily 
in  two,  they  merely  require  to  be  slit  down  the  middle 
both  ends  being  cut  off,  and  then  sliced  into  two  or  more 
pieces ;  but  if  they  are  older,  the  hard  string  of  each  side 
must  be  stripped  off  before  they  are  submitted  to  the 
aperation  of  boiling.  Some  let  them,  after  being  thus 
prepared,  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  some  time  ;  but  if 
Key  are  fresh-gathered  and  crisp,  this  is  not  necessary; 
aor  do  we  see  how  salt  can  be  necessary  to  their  soaking 
fet  all :  a  little  salt  in  their  boiling  may,  however,  sometimes 

t  does  not  seem  irrational  to  presume  that  they  may  be  the  most 
nutritious  of  the  oleraceous  herbs,  and  the  least  remote  from  the 
nature  of  animal  food. — Materia  Medica,  vol.  i.  p.  237.  M.  Morin 
says  that  cabbage  “  Porte  avec  elle  un  principe  extremement  acre 
}u’il  convient  de  faire  disparaitre  en  jetant  la  premiere  eau  dans 
aquelle  on  la  fait  cuire.  Quoi  qu’il  en  soit,  il  faut  avoir  bon 
Jstomac  pour  manger  les  choux.” — Manuel  de  Hygiene.  Doctors 
iiffer,  as  we  see.  We  think  that  cabbage  in  any  state  of  growth, 
>  Ind  made  tender  by  boiling,  but  more  especially  young  cabbage, 
>eing  also  well  drained  or  well  pressed  from  the  water  in  which  it 
s  boiled,  is  at  once  both  nutritious  and  wholesome  :  it  will  very 
iiften  agree  even  with  the  dyspeptic.  What  M.  Morin  means  by 
‘  un  principe  extremement  acre,”  an  extremely  acrid  principle, 
ve  do  not  know  ;  it  is  much  more  likely  to  be,  according  to  Lewis, 
ome  body  very  analogous  to  animal  matter,  and  which  the  mere 
leat  of  boiling  water  sends  at  once  into  the  putrid  fermentation. 
Sir  Humphry  Davy  (Elements  of  Agricultural  Chemistry)  states 
hat  the  whole  quantity  of  nutritive  matter  in  one  thousand 
■arts  of  cabbage  is  only  seventy-three  parts  ;  of  which,  forty-one 
iarts  are  starch,  twenty-four  sugar,  and  eight  are  gluten. 

L  2 


220  KIDNEY  BEANS.  —  CAULIFLOWERS. 


be  of  service ;  when  they  are  tender  they  are  sufficiently 
done.  Melted  butter  is  the  common  accompaniment  to 
them;  some  persons,  however,  like  them  with  plain  vinegar 
only.  In  every  way  the  pods,  when  young ,  if  not  spoiled 
in  dressing  or  with  too  many  condiments,  are  unquestionably 
a  wholesome  food.  The  dry  ripe  bean  is  rarely,  if  ever, 
eaten  in  this  country ;  and  it  is  at  no  time  a  vdiolesome 
food.  We  knew  a  young1  man  who  lost  his  life  by  acci¬ 
dentally  swallowing  one  wdiole :  it  expanded  in  some  part 
of  the  intestinal  canal  so  much  as  to  produce  an  obstruction 
of  •which  he  died. 

Note,  that  the  French  call  the  kidney  bean  haricot; 
and  in  this  country  almost  every  hodge-podge  of  boiled 
vegetables,  without  even  one  solitary  kidney  bean,  is  called, 
very  improperly,  Haricot. 

FRENCH  BEANS  A  LA  CREME  are  prepared  by 
being  first  cut  into  small  slices  and  then  boiled  in  water 
with  some  salt ;  when  they  are  done,  let  them  be  drained 
dry.  Put  nowr  into  a  stewpan  some  fresh  butter,  the  yolks 
of  some  eggs  wTell  beaten  up  in  a  gill  of  cream,  and  set 
the  mixture  over  a  slow  fire ;  when  hot,  put  in  a  table 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  the  beans  ;  let  the  whole  simmer 
together  for  about  five  minutes :  observe  that  the  whole 
must  be  constantly  stirred  with  a  wooden  spoon,  to  prevent 
its  burning  or  curdling. 

Note. — This  is  one  of  those  unwholesome  dishes  against 
which  we  have  throughout  our  work  constantly  protested. 
Cream  and  eggs  and  vinegar !  We  pity  the  cook  who 
cannot  invent  better  dishes  than  such  as  these  :  we  wonder 
the  inventor  of  this  dish  did  not  add  some  flour  to  it,  in 
order  to  make  it  still  more  offensive  to  the  stomach  ! 

CAULIFLOWERS  and  BROCOLI  are  both  varieties 
of  the  brassica  oleracea,  or  Cabbage,  so  well  knowui 
and  so  extensively  eaten  in  this  country :  by  some  naturalists 
both  the  cauliflower  and  brocoli  are  esteemed  the  mere 
results  of  long  cultivation  of  the  cabbage ;  but  the  more 
probable  history  is  that  the  cauliflower,  at  least,  wras  for¬ 
merly  obtained  from  Candia.,  where  it  is  said  to  be  a  native. 
Perhaps  in  no  part  of  our  island  are  the  heads  of  these 
plants  produced  in  such  perfection  as  in  the  gardens  around 
London.  They  appear  to  consist  chiefly  of  starch,  and 


BROCOLI. —  CABBAGE. 


221 


are  a  very  wholesome  vegetable  dish.  They  are  boiled  so 
easily  that  no  directions  after  those  which  have  been  given 
generally  for  greens  above  are  necessary.  It  is,  however, 
usual  in  preparing 

CAULIFLOWERS  FOR  BOILING,  to  cut  off  the 
leaves  around  the  head  except  a  few  bits  next  the  flower, 
and  to  leave  only  so  much  of  the  stalk  as  will  retain  the 
head  as  one,  and  then  to  boil  the  whole  in  water,  with  a  little 
salt,  till  it  is  tender ;  if,  however,  the  head  should  he  very 
large,  the  best  way  will  be  to  separate  all  the  leaves  entirely, 
and  the  stalk  close  to  the  head,  which  may  be  divided  into 
two  or  four,  according  to  its  size,  upon  which  the  time  of 
boiling  must  depend.  Small  ones  may  be  done  in  fifteen 
minutes ;  some  will  require  nearly  twice  that  time.  Or 
they  may  be  sent  to  table  as  a  sort  of  stew,  by  melting  butter, 
adding  a  little  pepper  and  salt  in  a  stewpan,  and  then 
putting  in  half  of  your  already  boiled  cauliflower  cut  as  for 
pickling ;  let  them  then  stew  ten  minutes  ;  lay  the  stewed  ones 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  boiled  ones  around  it,  and 
let  the  butter  in  which  they  were  stewed  be  poured  over  the 
whole.  Melted  butter  is  the  only  necessary  sauce  to  this 
dish. 

BOILED  BROCOLI  may  he  treated  similarly  to  cauli¬ 
flowers  above.  To  make  it  a  supper  dish,  a  more  elegant 
way  will  be  to  strip  off  all  the  little  branches  till  you  come 
to  the  top  one,  and  then  peel  off  the  hard  outside  skin  on  the 
stalks  as  well  as  on  the  little  branches,  and  put  the  whole 
into  water.  Then  set  some  water  with  a  little  salt  on  the 
fire,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  brocoli,  which,  -when  tender, 
will  be  done.  It  should  be  served  up  similarly  to  asparagus, 
namely,  with  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  on  which  lay  your 
brocoli  and  over  which  you  may  pour  some  melted  butter ; 
some  may  be  also  sent  up  separately  in  a  boat. 

CABBAGE  constitutes  an  extensive  species  of  plants, 
all  the  varieties  from  which  are  said  to  be  derived  from  the 
original  wild  plant  the  Brassica  oleracea  which  grows 
wild  on  the  cliffs  of  the  sea-side  in  Kent,  Cornwall,  York¬ 
shire,  and  Wales.  Cabbages  with  heads  are  known  under 
various  names,  those  without  under  the  names  of  coleworts 
and  kales.  They  are  all,  however,  biennial  plants.  See 
Cauliflower.  Two  are  chiefly  distinguished,  the  white  Cab - 


222 


CABBAGE. - SPINACH. 


bage ,  the  heads  of  which  are  fit  for  being  eaten  in  the 
spring  and  summer  ;  and  the  Savoys,  wffiich  are  a  useful 
winter  food.  Of  the  nutritive  properties  of  all  the  tribe, 
nothing  more  needs  to  be  said;  the  reader  is,  therefore, 
referred  to  the  General  Directions  and  a  note  above  at  pages 
218,  219  ;  see  also  the  Family  Cyclopaedia  article  Cabbage. 

FOR  BOILED  CABBAGE  the  reader  may  also  consult 
the  general  directions ;  but  v/e  may  just  observe  here  that 
large  cabbages  will  be  best  boiled  by  being  cut  into  four 
parts  at  least ;  care  should  always  be  taken  that,  in  what¬ 
ever  way  it  is  boiled,  it  ought  to  have  the  water  carefully 
drained  from  it  before  it  is  served  up.  Melted  butter,  as 
for  cauliflower,  is  the  usual  accompaniment,  but  there  are 
not  wanting  persons  who  prefer  simple  vinegar  to  every 
other  condiment  or  sauce  for  cabbage. 

In  regard  to  converting  cabbage  into  a  variety  of  other 
dishes  it  will  be  sufficient  to  observe  that,  in  w-hatever 
way  it  is  employed  as  food,  (except  the  red-cabbage  for 
pickling,  and  other  Cabbage — as  sour-crout,  both  which 
see  under  Pickles,)  it  will  be  always  most  advisable  that 
it  should  be  boiled  first,  and  that  the  water  be  invariably 
thrown  away.  For  Fried-Cabbage,  see  page  77. 

SPINACH  is  the  green  and  tender  leaves  of  the 
Spinachia  oleracea,  or  Spinach,  an  annual  plant,  the 
native  country  of  which  is  not  exactly  known  ;  but  supposed 
to  be  Asia ;  it  has  been  know-n  to  this  country  for  more 
than  250  years.  There  are  several  varieties  ;  with  manage¬ 
ment,  spinach  may  be  obtained  at  every  season  of  the  year. 
The  nutritive  properties  of  spinach  are  similar  to  those  of 
cabbage,  but  certainly  not  superior  to  that  article. 

TO  BOIL  SPINACH.  The  directions  in  most  of  our 
old  Cookery  Books,  from  Mrs.  Glasse  even  to  the  present 
century,  are  that  spinach  should  be  put  into  a  saucepan  and 
stewed  without  water  till  it  is  tender  ;  but  the  good  sense 
of  the  present  time  has  adopted  the  practice  (after  washing 
it  in  a  great  many  waters  to  render  it  perfectly  free  from 
impurities)  of  boiling  it  in  plenty  of  water  and  some  salt. 
Ten  minutes  will  in  general  be  sufficient  for  it,  unless  the 
quantity  be  very  large,  or  it  be  old,  then,  of  course,  more 
time  must  be  given  it.  When  it  is  done,  let  it  be  well 
drained  and  squeezed  as  dry  as  possible  between  plates  or 


SPINACH. - ASPARAGUS.  223 

trenchers ;  chop  it  fine,  cut  it  into  squares  and  send  it  to 
table.  Its  proper  accompaniment  is  melted  butter. 

Note,  some  will  mix  with  it  cream  or  rich  gravy  ;  others 
grated  nutmeg,  mace,  or  lemon-juice.  But  we  advise  none 
of  these  condiments. 

SPINACH  AND  EGGS  consist  of  a  poached  egg  served 
up  on  each  square  of  boiled  spinach,  as  above.  Some  add 
to  the  spinach,  after  being  boiled  and  the  water  pressed  from 
it,  a  little  butter.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  barberries, 
not  orange  as  some  Cookery  Books  direct.  Melted  butter 
of  course. 

ASPARAGUS  is  the  young  shoots  of  the  asparagus 
officinalis,  a  perennial  plant  growing  wild  in  various  places 
near  the  sea-shore  in  this  country,  where  it  is  very  diminu¬ 
tive  ;  the  large  shoots  as  we  find  them  in  the  garden  are 
entirely  the  result  of  cultivation.  Asparagus  is  at  once  a 
nutritious  and  a  pleasant  delicacy. 

TO  BOIL  ASPARAGUS.  If  your  asparagus  he  fresh 
cut  from  the  garden  it  will  need  no  previous  soaking  in 
water  ;  but  if  it  be  obtained  from  the  market  or  the  green¬ 
grocer,  is  should  be  soaked  in  water  for  an  hour  or  more 
before  it  is  prepared  for  boiling  :  scrape  off  carefully 
from  the  white  part  of  the  shoots  all  the  dead  skin  which 
surrounds  them  ;  cut  them  all  as  nearly  as  possible  of  the 
same  length,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Get  ready 
a  saucepan,  or  in  preference  a  stewpan  (where  there  is  less 
danger  of  the  heads  being  broken,)  of  boiling  water ;  tie 
the  asparagus  in  small  bundles  and  put  them  into  the  boiling- 
water,  to  which  must  be  added  a  little  salt.  When  they 
are  tender,  they  will  be  done.  You  must  take  care  not 
to  boil  them  too  much  :  for,  thus,  both  their  taste  and 
|  colour  will  be  destroyed.  Some  small  heads  may  be  done 
[  in  fifteen  minutes ;  some  will  require  twenty,  and  large 
u  ones  even  thirty.  Toast  some  bread  on  both  sides ;  let  the 
round  be  sufficiently  large  to  receive  your  asparagus  in  a 
handsome  manner :  the  crust  should  be  cut  off.  Dip  the 
toast  in  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  has  been  boiled, 
cut  it  in  long  squares,  place  it  in  your  dish  and  pour  some 
melted  butter  on  it,  then  lay  the  asparagus  carefully  on  the 
toast  so  as  not  to  break  the  heads.  Over  which  some  will 


224  LEEKS. - SEA  KALE.  —  ARTICHOKES. 


pour  melted  butter ;  but  others  prefer  its  being  sent  up  in  a 
boat. 

Note.  — The  asparagus  should  not  only  be  boiled  in 
plenty  of  water,  but  it  should  be  carefully  skimmed  during 
its  boiling. 

LEEKS  have  been  already  alluded  to  as  a  condiment. 
And  again  as  a  made-dish,  page  95 ;  it  may  be  useful 
here  to  observe  that  they  are  often  eaten  in  the  winter  and 
early  spring,  as  a  substantial  dish,  instead  of  other  vegetables, 
when  they  are  blanched  similarly  to  celery,  and,  after  being- 
deprived  of  the  greatest  part  of  their  green  leaves,  or  at 
least  of  their  tops,  are  boiled  till  they  are  tender.  To  per¬ 
sons  who  dislike  their  very  strong  and  peculiar  taste,  they 
may  be  rendered  much  more  mild  by  being  boiled  in  water 
till  they  are  three-fourths  done,  the  water  then  thrown 
away  and  fresh  boiling  water  added  to  them  to  complete 
their  dressing.  Thus  prepared,  they  are  as  wholesome  as 
cabbage  ;  and,  of  course,  form  a  variety  which,  to  many 
persons,  is  very  agreeable.  They  may  be  eaten  with  almost 
any  meat ;  some  prefer  them  as  a  supper  dish.  In  the 
West  of  England  they  are  more  particularly  accompanied 
with  boiled  bacon ;  long  leeks  and  bacon  are  there  well- 
known.  Melted  butter  maybe  their  accompaniment ;  but 
some  prefer  simple  vinegar  to  any  other  condiment. 

SEA  KALE  is  the  blanched  shoots  of  the  crambe  mari- 
tima,  a  perennial  plant  which  grows  wild  on  the  sandy 
sea-coast  of  various  parts  of  this  country,  whence  it  has 
been  transplanted  to  our  gardens.  It  is  a  wholesome  food, 
and  being  ready  for  eating  before  asparagus  in  the  spring, 
has  an  advantage  over  that ;  but  it  is  more  expensive  and 
troublesome  to  obtain ;  and  will  never,  therefore,  equal 
asparagus  as  an  article  of  general  consumption.  It  is 
dressed  in  precisely  the  same  way  as  asparagus ;  which  see. 

ARTICHOKES  are  the  unripe  flower-heads  of  the 
cynara  scolymus,  a  perennial  plant,  a  native  of  the  south 
of  Europe,  and  known  in  this  country  from  the  year  1548. 
As  it  is  not  a  very  common  production  of  our  gardens, 
little  needs  to  be  said  about  it  ;  it  is,  however,  considered 
by  some  as  a  sort  of  luxury ;  but  luxury  apart,  we  believe 
it  will  never  be  much  sought  after  by  wisdom  or  economy : 


CARDOONS. - VEGETABLE  MARROW.  225 


it  is,  nevertheless,  when  properly  boiled,  a  wholesome  food. 
But  we  cannot  think  it  deserves  the  eulogium  of  M.  Morin, 
that  eaten  raw  with  salt  and  pepper  only,  when  young-  and 
very  tender,  it  excites  the  appetite  and  stimulates  the  di¬ 
gestive  powers  of  the  stomach.* 

BOILED  ARTICHOKES.  Let  them  be  soaked  for 
some  time  in  cold  water  :  after  washing  them  well,  nut 
them  into  boiling  water  with  plenty  of  salt  in  it ;  let  them 
boil  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  :  if  they  should 
be  very  young  they  will  be  done  in  less  time.  To  know 
when  they  are  done,  pull  out  one  of  the  leaves  of  the  head, 
which,  if  it  come  out  easily,  proves  that  they  are  boiled 
enough.  Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter  in  small  cups, 
one  for  each  guest. 

The  CARDOON,  we  may  just  add  here,  is  another  of 
the  artichoke  tribe,  the  cynara  cardunculus,  a  perennial 
riant,  native  of  Candia,  and  has  been  known  in  this 
pountry  since  the  year  1658.  The  tender  stalks  of 
its  inner  leaves,  made  white  by  being  treated  as  celery, 
are  here  only  occasionally  used  for  stewing  and  for  soups 
and  salads,  althoug-h  in  great  request  on  the  continent. 
Cardoons  are  sometimes  boiled  as  asparagus,  and  served 
up  in  tbe  same  manner :  indeed,  there  is  scarcely  any  end 
to  their  varying  cookery  among  our  neighbours.  Their 
nutritive  properties  are  not  of  a  very  high  order.  See  M. 
Morin,  Manuel  d'  Hygiene,  page  69. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  is  the  fruit  of  the  cucur- 
bita  succndo,  an  annual  plant  of  the  gourd  tribe,  and  was 
introduced  into  this  country,  during  the  present  century, 
’rom  Persia.  It  is  useful  for  culinary  purposes  in  every 
stage  of  its  growth :  when  very  young  it  is  good  fried  with 
rutter  ;  when  about  half  grown  it  is  excellent,  either  plain 
soiled  or  stewed  with  rich  sauce ;  for  both  these  purposes 
t  should  be  cut  into  slices.  But  the  best  practice  is  to 
boil  it  in  water  with  salt  till  it  is  tender;  to  press 
it,  and  then  serve  it  up,  on  slices  of  toast,  with 
welted  butter.  It  is,  as  far  as  w-e  have  had  an  oppor¬ 
tunity  of  observing  it,  a  wholesome  food ;  but  we  believe 

*  Manuel  d’Hygiene,  page  63. 

L  3 


226  PUMPKINS.  —  CUCUMBERS. 

that  it  will  never  enter  largely  into  economical  or  family 
cookery. 

PUMPKINS  are  the  ripe  fruit  of  the  cucurbita  pepo, 
an  annual  plant,  a  native  of  the  Levant,  and  introduced 
into  this  country  in  1570  ;  they  are  very  easily  raised,  and 
very  productive.  They  constitute  a  coarse  sort  of  food ; 
but  when  well  boiled  and  not  watery,  they  are  equal  in 
nutritive  properties  to  some  esteemed  vegetables.  It  is 
usual  to  cut  the  heads  into  four  or  more  parts,  to  take  out 
all  the  seeds  and  the  fibrous  matter  with  which  they  are 
surrounded,  and  then  to  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  till  the 
pulp  is  tender.  Some  prefer  eating  the  pulp  off  the  shells ; 
others  prefer  all  the  water  being  pressed  out  of  it,  and  then 
to  mix  it  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  In  the  west  of 
England  the  pumpkin  is  usually  served  up  with  salt-beef, 
to  which  it  forms  an  agreeable  variety,  instead  of  any  other 
vegetable. 

The  ORANGE  GOURD  is  smaller  in  kind,  but  simi¬ 
lar  in  quality  to  the  pumpkin. 

The  CUCUMBER  is  the  unripe  fruit  of  the  cucumis 
sativus,  an  annual  plant,  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  and 
introduced  into  this  country  in  1573.  There  are  several 
varieties :  those  which  are  green,  long,  and  prickly  are 
esteemed  the  best.  Of  the  cucumber  as  an  article  of  food 
in  any  shape  we  cannot  speak  in  commendation  ;  and  least 
of  all  when  it  is  in  the  greatest  plenty  in  this  country.  The 
time  of  the  year  when  it  may  be  eaten  with  the  least 
injurious  effects  is  from  the  early  spring  to  the  end  of 
June;  after  which  time  it  is,  from  whatever  cause,  more 
liable  to  injure  the  digestive  functions,  chiefly,  perhaps, 
from  its  acquiring  more  solidity ;  becoming  more  bellied 
and  yellow,  and  always,  under  such  circumstances,  more 
tough  and  leathery.  The  dyspeptic  should  invariably  avoid 
cucumbers. 

Cucumbers  are  usually,  after  being  deprived  of  their 
green  rind,  sliced  thin,  well  peppered  and  salted,  to  which 
are  added  sliced  onions  and  a  large  portion  of  vinegar,  to 
which  some  add  olive  oil.  These  condiments  certainly 
make  it  a  very  agreeable  dish ;  we  wish  we  could  say  a 
wholesome  one.  It  is  nevertheless  unquestionably  true, 


TURNIPS. 


227 


i 

i 

•<! 

ii 


II 


that  many  persons  can  eat  cucumbers  with  complete  im¬ 
punity  ;  yet  we  knew  a  lady,  calculating  upon  such  impu¬ 
nity,  who  nearly  lost  her  life  by  eating  a  large  quantity  of 
them  in  the  month  of  July. 

Note. — That  before  a  cucumber  is  eaten,  care  should  be 
taken,  if  it  be  not  immediately  cut  from  the  garden,  to  soak 
it  in  water  for  an  hour  or  more  before  it  is  cut  up  ;  this  is 
particularly  necessary  to  be  attended  to  when  the  cucumber 
is  bought  in  the  market,  at  the  green-grocer’s,  or  in  the 
street.  Cucumbers  with  more  or  less  yellow  on  them 
should  invariably  be  avoided. 

TURNIPS  are  the  bulbous  roots  of  the  brassica  rnpa, 
a  biennial  plant,  growing  wild  in  some  parts  of  this  country, 
but  cultivated  extensively  in  gardens  and  fields  for  the  food 
of  both  man  and  beast.  There  are  many  varieties ;  the 
early  white  Dutch  is  much  esteemed.  Notwithstanding 
the  agreeable  flavour  and  wholesome  properties  of  the  tur¬ 
nip  ;  notwithstanding  it  enters  into  our  broths  and  soups, 
and  is  brought  to  table  on  so  many  occasions,  it  neverthe¬ 
less  contains,  according  to  the  most  accurate  analysis  of  it, 
a  very  scanty  portion  of  nutritious  matter;  in  1000 
parts  only  42  parts  are  nutritive,  of  which  7  parts  are 
starch,  34  parts  are  sugar,  and  one  gluten.  It  is,  there¬ 
fore,  a  vegetable  which  may  be  employed  to  impart  a 
pleasant  flavour  to  food ;  but  it  is  one  which,  without  the 
accompaniment  of  animal  matter,  must  be  held  in  low 
estimation.  Taken  in  moderate  quantity  it  seems  to  agree 
with  most  stomachs.  Turnip  tops,  which  are  the  young 
shoots  of  the  second  year,  when  boiled  tender  are  by  many 
esteemed ;  they  are  of  about  the  same  importance  as  the 
young  shoots  of  cabbage,  but  hardly  so  good,  as  they  often 
possess  a  bitterness  which  to  many  is  disagreeable. 

BOILED  TURNIPS  are  by  many  most  esteemed  when 
dressed  in  the  same  vessel  with  the  meat ;  boiled  mutton  in 
particular  seems  to  require  turnips  as  a  constant  vegetable 
attendant.  Some  serve  them  up  in  a  separate  dish,  and  as 
they  have  been  boiled ;  others  mash  them  by  pressing  out 
the  water,  and  then  mixing*  with  them  a  little  butter  and 
salt,  to  which  some  will  add  cream,  pepper,  &c.  Melted 
butter  is  always  a  useful  addition  to  turnips. 

Note. — Care  should  always  be  taken  in  choosing  turnips, 


228 


CARROTS. 


that  they  are  young  and  tender  ;  for  when  too  old  they 
neither  boil  well  nor  are  they  proper  to  be  eaten.  They 
wrill  keep  a  great  while  out  of  the  ground ;  but  they 
should  be  always  soaked  well  in  water  before  being  set 
to  boil.  The  exterior  rind  should  always  also  be  carefully 
taken  off. 

Turnips  are  cooked  in  various  other  ways :  some  even 
make  them  into  soup ;  but,  without  animal  matter,  such 
soup  is  good  for  little. 

CARROTS  are  the  roots  of  the  daucus  carota,  a  bien¬ 
nial  plant,  cultivated  in  our  gardens  ;  it  is  found  growing- 
wild  in  almost  every  meadow  in  this  country;  the  differences 
between  the  wild  and  cultivated  carrot  consisting  chiefly  in 
the  small  woody  nature  of  the  wild  root,  and  the  superior 
pungency  of  the  wild  seed  ;  the  wild  root  is  also  whitish  in 
colour,  while  that  of  the  cultivated  carrot  is  of  a  reddish 
yellow,  more  or  less  deep,  or  of  a  straw  colour.  There 
are  several  varieties  of  the  cultivated  carrot ;  one  red, 
which  is  said  to  be  cultivated  chiefly  by  the  farmers  for 
colouring  their  butter ;  a  silly  and  useless  practice  ;  what 
is  called  the  orange  carrot  is  most  esteemed.  The  charac¬ 
teristic  of  a  good  carrot  is  its  breaking  short  and  at  once 
without  the  appearance  of  any  tough  or  woody  fibres. 
Carrots  contain  considerably  more  nutrition  than  turnips : 
in  1000  parts  98  are  nutritive  matter,  of  which  three  only 
are  starch,  and  95  are  sugar.  When  properly  boiled  and 
not  at  all  woody,  they  agree  with  the  generality  of  stomachs. 
They  are  frequently  employed  in  our  soups  and  stews,  and 
are  also  served  up  as  a  sepai-ate  dish  :  to  boiled  beef  they 
are  a  very  common  accompaniment. 

BOILED  CARROTS.  Let  them  be  scraped  clean, 
and  if  very  large  and  long  they  may  be  cut  longitudinally 
in  two  as  well  as  transversely ;  but  they  look  best  when 
served  up  whole ;  before  doing  which,  after  boiling,  they 
should  be  deprived  of  their  outside  skin  by  being  rubbed  in 
a  clean  cloth.  Some  serve  them  up  sliced  with  melted 
butter  poured  over  them ;  but  this  we  do  not  approve. 
Their  time  of  boiling  must  depend  upon  their  size  ;  they 
will  in  general  require  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour  or 
more  ;  but  if  small  and  very  young  a  less  time. 

Note.— A s  carrots  keep  a  long  time  out  of  the  ground 


PARSNIPS. —  BEET.  229 

without  spoiling,  they  should  be  always  well  soaked  in 
water  before  being-  set  to  boil. 

PARSNIPS  are  the  roots  of  the  pastinaca  sativa, 
a  biennial  plant,  cultivated  in  gardens;  it  is,  like  the  car¬ 
rot,  found  also  growing  wild  in  almost  every  meadow : 
the  cultivated  parsnip  differs  from  the  wild  chiefly  in  the 
size  and  nature  of  its  root.  There  are  several  cultivated 
varieties  of  the  parsnip  ;  but  only  one  much  known  in  this 
country.  In  one  thousand  parts  ninety-nine  are  nutritive, 
of  which  nine  parts  are  starch  and  ninety  sugar ;  hence 
there  is  no  difficulty  in  presuming  that  from  the  parsnip 
8;as  well  as  the  carrot  a  spirit  may  be  obtained  ;  and  from 
both  of  these  roots  it  is  now  occasionally  procured.  Pars¬ 
nips  being  so  similar  in  their  properties  to  carrots,  there  is 
•  little  occasion  to  say  more  about  them ;  but  as  they  will 
ikeep  well  either  in  or  out  of  the  ground,  when  they  are 
not  fresh  dug  up  they  should  be  soaked  for  some  time  in 
iwater  before  being  set  to  boil.  They  are  sometimes  served 
up  as  a  dish  with  salt  beef.  They  are  boiled  and  otherwise 
treated  exactly  as  carrots.  Melted  butter  is  their  usual 
accompaniment.  See  ('arrots  above. 

BEET  is  the  root  of  the  beta  vulgaris  or  red  beet , 
a  biennial  plant,  and  native  of  the  sea- coasts  of  the  south 
of  Europe  but  cultivated  in  our  gardens  and  fields.  There 
are  several  varieties,  all  of  which  appear  to  possess  similar 
properties :  of  one  thousand  parts  of  red  beet,  one  hundred 
and  forty-eight  are  nutritive  matter ;  of  these  fourteen  are 
starch,  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  sugar,  and  fourteen 
parts  are  gluten :  hence  the  beets  are  much  more  nutri¬ 
tious  than  either  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  or  cabbage. 
From  white  beet  a  considerable  portion  of  sugar  has  been 
obtained  in  France.  Red  beet  is  not,  therefore,  so  much 
employed  as  a  culinary  vegetable  as  it  deserves  to  be.  It  is 
dressed  in  the  same  way  as  parsnips  ;  the  root  should  be 
boiled  whole  ;  for  if  cut  or  broken  the  colour  will  escape  ; 
but  it  requires  a  good  while  to  be  boiled  tender;  some  say 
even  three  or  more  hours :  the  time  must  depend  upon  the 
size  of  the  root.  When  boiled  and  cut  into  slices,  red  beet 
makes  an  excellent  garnish.  It  is  also  sometimes  pickled, 
and  sometimes  stewed  with  onions.  It  is  also  sometimes 
baked  instead  of  being  boiled. 


230  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  MUSHROOMS. 

Note,  that  the  French  direct  the  beet  root  to  be  either 
boiled  or  baked.  They  also  make  a  fricassee  of  it,  thus: 
put  the  root  (sliced  of  course)  into  a  stewpan,  with  some 
butter,  parsley,  minced  ciboules  or  onions,  a  little  garlic, 
flour,  sufficient  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper :  boil  the  whole 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.* 

THE  LEAVES  OF  SEA  BEET,  beta  maritima,  a  na¬ 
tive  of  our  own  sea-coast,  may  be  used  as  an  agreeable 
variety  of  greens.  As  well  as  may  also  the  stalks  and  the 
middle  part  of  the  leaves  of  the  Mangel  Wurzel, 
(a  variety  of  the  beta  cicla ,)  be  stewed  or  eaten  plain- 
boiled  as  asparagus,  in  which  state  it  is  called  chard. 

SKIRRETS  are  the  roots  of  a  perennial  plant,  the 
sium  sisarum,  a  native  of  China,  but  known  in  this 
country  since  1548.  The  tubers  are  boiled  and  eaten, 
or  made  into  a  sort  of  stew,  with  cream,  butter,  &c.;  but 
modern  cookery  pays  little  attention  to  this  old-fashioned 
root :  as  good,  we  suppose,  as  many  similar  saccharine 
roots.  See  page  112. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  are  the  tuberous  roots 
of  the  helianthus  tuberosus,  a  sort  of  sun-flower ;  it  is  a  pe¬ 
rennial  plant,  and  a  native  of  Brasil,  whence  it  was  brought 
to  this  country  in  1617.  They  are  esteemed  a  nutritious 
food,  and  dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  potatoes;  but 
they  are,  nevertheless,  in  no  great  request.  Melted  butter, 
with  which  they  may  be  also  mashed,  is  their  best  accom¬ 
paniment. 

MUSHROOMS  are  well-known  vegetables,  found  grow¬ 
ing  in  meadows  and  pastures  during-  the  summer  months 
in  this  country.  There  are  several  kinds,  most  of  which 
are  more  or  less  poisonous;  those  which  are  least  so  are 
the  agaricus  campestris,  or  common  and  cultivated  mush¬ 
room,  distinguished  by  fine  pink  or  flesh-coloured  gills, 
which  are  covered,  when  young,  with  a  white  skin  :  this 
mushroom  has  also  a  peculiar  smell  by  which  it  is  distin¬ 
guished  from  most  of  the  other  species.  There  is  also  the 
agaricus  pratensis  or  champignon,  frequent  in  heaths  and 
pastures,  and  much  smaller  than  the  preceding;  it  is 
considered  equally  wholesome  with  the  common  mushroom. 

*  Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise,  page  200.  Paris,  1830. 


231 


MUSHROOMS,  HOPS,  SALADS. 

Loudon,  indeed,  in  his  Encyclopedia  of  Gardening , 
enumerates  many  other  mushrooms,  which  are  considered 
good:  but  we  advise  the  cook,  if  mushrooms  are  to  be 
eaten,  to  confine  herself  to  the  employment  of  the  two 
species  which  we  have  mentioned,  and  these  will  be  found 
the  most  wholesome,  if  taken  from  their  natural  places , 
in  the  open  fields  or  heath.  Those  which  grow  in  the 
shade  are  invariably  to  be  avoided,  as  well  as  all  those 
which  have  not  been  freshly  gathered ;  mushrooms  soon  go, 
after  being  gathered,  into  the  putrid  fermentation.  For 
further  particulars  concerning  mushrooms  see  the  Family 
Cyclopaedia,  article  Mushroom. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS.  Remove  the  stems  which 
may  be  converted  into  catchup,  and  take  off  the  outside 
skins  of  the  heads ;  pepper  and  salt  the  gills,  into  which 
put  a  lump  of  butter,  and  lay  the  heads  upside  down  upon 
the  gridiron  placed  over  a  brisk  fire  ;  broil  them  for  a  few 
minutes  and  they  will  be  done.  Serve  them  up  with  good 
gravy. 

Some  enclose  the  heads,  well-cleaned  and  skinned,  in  a 
case  of  writing  paper  wrell  buttered  on  the  inside ;  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  on  a  baking  plate 
over  a  slow  fire  with  a  stewpot  cover,  with  some  fire  on  it : 
when  the  mushrooms  are  nearly  dry,  they  must  be  served 
up  very  hot. 

Note ,  some,  after  thus  broiling  them,  will  stew  them  in 
water  sufficient  to  cover  them,  to  which  are  added  a  little 
wine  and  vinegar. 

HOPS  wall  be  spoken  of  more  particularly  under  Brew¬ 
ing  ;  it  is  only  necessary  to  observe  here  that  many  persons 
living  in  the  country,  dress  the  tender  tops  of  the  plant 
similarly  to  those  of  asparagus ;  under  the  name  of  hop- 
tops  they  form,  a  pleasant  dish. 

SALADS  are  too  well  known  to  need  any  description. 
They  form,  more  especially  in  the  spring  and  early  sum¬ 
mer  months,  an  agreeable  variety  in  our  food.  Some  are, 
however,  mifeh  more  suitable  to  the  stomach  than  others. 
The  shoots  of  shalots,  chives,  and  others  of  the  onion 
tribe,  as  well  as  young  onions  themselves,  are  very  often 
eaten  as  salad  when  mixed  with  others,  such  as  the  lettuce, 
mustard,  pepper-cress,  &c.  Yet  all  the  onion  tribe  pro- 


232 


WATER  CRESSES.  —  RADISHES. 


duce,  in  many  stomachs,  heat  and  other  dyspeptic  symp¬ 
toms  :  where  such  are  the  consequences  of  their  being 
taken  they  ought  to  be  avoided  ;  see  page  190.  Beet  root 
is  also  occasionally  used  as  a  salad:  see  Beet  Root 
above. 

Of  the  condiments  employed  with  salads,  we  consider 
vinegar  and  salt  by  far  the  best :  the  practice  of  mixing- 
hard-boiled  eggs  with  them  is  decidedly  bad  and  to  be 
avoided  ;  nor  do  we  much  commend  their  admixture  with 
olive  oil ;  melted  butter  is  also  sometimes  added  to  them : 
the  epicurean  may  admire  it,  but  the  simple  in  sauces  and 
in  food,  will  find  it  best  to  avoid  such  oleous,  and,  in  too 
many  instances,  unwholesome  excitements  of  the  appetite. 

WATER  CRESSES,  the  product  of  the  nasturtium 
officinale ,  a  perennial  plant,  growing  in  ditches  and  run¬ 
ning  streams,  in  almost  every  part  of  this  country,  are 
too  well  known  to  need  description  ;  they  are  in  London 
very  common  attendants  at  our  breakfast  tables,  and  are, 
we  believe,  a  very  wholesome  salad  ;  but  those  who  expect 
by  the  constant  use  of  them,  to  derive  any  advantages 
from  them  as  medicinal  plants  will  be  disappointed.  Care 
should  always  be  taken  that  they  are  well  cleansed  from 
every  impurity  before  they  are  eaten :  those  with  brown 
leaves  are  more  wholesome  than  those  which  are  of  a  pale 
green. 

RADISHES  are  the  roots  of  the  raphanus  satiinis, 
an  annual  plant,  native  of  China,  and  known  in  this  coun¬ 
try  as  early  as  the  year  1584.  The  seedling  leaves  form 
a  pleasant  salad  when  eaten  alone  or  mixed  with  mustard 
or  pepper-cress.  The  roots,  of  which  there  are  three 
chief  varieties,  namely,  the  red  long  root,  the  white  tur¬ 
nip  rooted,  and  the  black  Spanish ,  are  all  eaten  as  salad. 
The  two  first  are  in  most  request.  The  turnip-rooted  radish 
is  the  most  mild,  and  therefore  best  suited  to  dyspeptic 
stomachs  with  which  the  red  radish  very  often  disagrees. 
Radishes  of  every  kind  appear  best  for  salad  in  the  spring- 
months.  Care  should  be  taken  that  they  are  well  soaked, 
and  afterwards  well  washed  in  wyater  before  they  are 
brought  to  table,  and  that  they  are  young  and  tender ; 
those  which  are  woody  and  hot  in  the  mouth  should  be 
avoided  ;  they  should,  if  fresh  gathered,  be  also  brought 


LETTUCE,  ENDIVE,  SORREL.  233 

to  table  with  more  green  leaves  attached  to  them  than  we 
usually  find  :  for  such  leaves,  if  tender,  form  themselves  a 
pleasant  salad. 

THE  LETTUCE  is  an  important  plant,  and  perhaps  the 
most  wholesome  of  all  the  vegetables  employed  as  salad. 
It  is  a  hardy  annual,  the  lactuca  sativa,  and  known  in 
this  country  since  the  year  1562  ;  but  whether  brought 
from  some  foreign  country  or  a  variety  of  some  of  our 
native  lettuces  is  not  known.  It  contains  a  milky  juice, 
from  which  has  been  obtained  an  extract  that  has  pro¬ 
perties  very  similar  to  opium  :  hence  the  soothing  qualities 
of  lettuce  when  eaten  at  night.  There  are  almost  innu¬ 
merable  varieties  of  the  lettuce :  those  called  cos  lettuces 
are  much  esteemed.  Of  this  useful  plant  it  is  not  necessary 
to  say  more  than  that  we  have  never  known  it  to  disagree 
iwith  any  stomach,  and,  therefore,  particularly  in  the  spring, 
it  is  a  salad  which  we  can  confidently  recommend.  It  is 
sometimes  boiled  in  soup ;  but  we  know  nothing  of  its 
qualities  thus  employed.  It  is  almost  superfluous  to  add 
that  care  should  be  taken,  when  it  is  eaten,  that  it  is  fresh 
and  sweet  and  well  freed  from  every  impurity  by  ablution 
in  water. 

ENDIVE  is  also  another  pleasant  salad,  but  by  no 
means  equal  to  the  lettuce.  It  is  an  annual,  the  cichorium 
endivict,  a  native  of  China,  and  known  in  this  country 
since  the  year  1 548  :  there  are  several  varieties. 

WHITE  MUSTARD  has  been  mentioned  in  p.  190. 
The  green  seed  leaves  are  the  parts  of  this  plant  employed 
as  a  salad  ;  and  those  are  best  and  most  wholesome  wThen 
raised  in  the  open  garden  in  the  spring. 

PEPPER  CRESS,  or  GARDEN  CRESS,  is  an 
annual  plant,'  the  lepidium  sativum,  known  in  this  country 
since  the  year  1548  ;  but  from  wrhat  country  is  not  known. 
There  are  several  varieties.  It  is  a  pleasant  salad,  if  cut 
jwhile  yet  its  seed  leaf  remains  tender ;  but  it  is  never¬ 
theless,  like  most  other  salads,  in  the  greatest  perfection 
in  the  spring. 

SORREL,  or  WOOD  SORREL,  the  leaves  of  the 
)xalis  acetosella,  an  indigenous  perennial  plant,  found  in 
woods  and  various  other  places  in  this  country,  may  be 
also  mentioned  as  a  pleasant  addition  to  salads ;  but  it  is 


234 


SALADS. —  TEA. 


not  of  much  importance,  although  its  acid  juice  is  occa¬ 
sionally  employed  for  taking  out  iron-moulds  from  linen. 

Many  other  native  vegetables  may  be  mentioned  as 
occasionally  furnishing  salads  ;  one,  the  Dandelion,  a 
perennial  plant,  the  leontodon  taraxacum,  growing  almost 
every  where  in  this  country,  is  used  in  London  mixed  with 
other  salads  ;  but  it  is  no  way  of  much  consequence. 

Having  disposed  of  the  most  important  vegetables,  as 
food  for  man,  except  Fruits,  which  will  have  a  more 
appropriate  place  in  the  subsequent  portion  of  our  work, 
there  yet  remain  a  few  articles  which  are  too  important,  as 
food,  wholly  to  be  passed  over ;  they  are  the  following:  — 

TEA  is  the  dried  leaves  of  several  species  of  the  genus 
Camellia ;  but  the  chief  tea  of  commerce  is  the  production 
of  the  Camellia  bohea,  or  Bohea  Camellia,  and  of 
the  Camellia  viridis,  or  Green  Tea  Camellia,  both 
natives  of  China ;  and  from  wThich  country  the  tea  of 
commerce  is  obtained.  They  are  both  evergreen  shrubs, 
having  somewhat  spear-shaped  leaves.  From  an  analysis  of 
tea,  made  some  time  since,  at  the  Royal  Institution,  it  appears 
that  nearly  half  the  weight  of  tea  is  soluble  in  boiling 
water,  and  that  a  considerable  portion  of  this  soluble  matter 
consists  of  tannin.  (See  Tannin,  page  200.)  Notwith¬ 
standing-  that  there  is  such  a  strong  aroma  emitted  by  tea, 
it  does  not  appear  that  any  essential  oil  can  be  obtained 
from  it  by  distillation.  It  is  hinted  at,  in  the  account  of 
these  experiments,  that  the  noxious  effects  of  tea  might 
be  referable  to  the  volatile  and  odorous  principle,  whatever 
it  is ;  and  that  those  who  suffer  any  inconvenience  from 
tea  would  find  it  best  to  boil  the  tea  in  water  for  a  few 
minutes,  in  order  that  the  fragrant  principle  might  be 
dissipated.  It  is  said  that  the  green  and  black  teas  are 
both  obtained  from  the  same  plant ;  and  that  the  difference 
between  them  consists  in  the  different  methods  in  which 
they  are  prepared :  this  is,  however,  questionable.  Some 
persons  have  supposed  that  the  green  colour  of  tea  was 
produced  by  a  slight  admixture  of  copper ;  but  we  are 
assured  that  not  the  least  particle  of  that  metal  can  be 
detected  in  green  tea  of  any  kind. 

The  earliest  importation  of  tea  into  Europe  is  said  to 
have  been  by  a  Dutch  merchant  in  161 0  :  the  time  of  its  first 


introduction  into  England  is  not  known;  yet  in  1666  a 
few  pounds  of  tea  were  presented  to  Charles  II.  as  a 
valuable  gift.  The  first  importation  of  tea  by  the  East 
India  Company  wras  in  1669. 

Whatever  may  be  the  inconvenience  experienced  by  an 

(individual  now  and  then  from  the  use  of  tea,  most  certain 
it  is  that,  to  a  very  large  portion  of  the  inhabitants  of  this 
country,  tea  forms  at  once  an  agreeable,  wholesome,  and 
moderately  exciting  beverage.  So  far  are  we  from  thinking’ 
it  injurious,  that  we  believe  the  stronger  it  in  general  is 
the  better  it  will  be  found  to  agree  with  the  stomach.  We 
see  no  solid  objection  to  its  being  drunk  with  a  moderate 
portion  of  sugar  and  milk  ;  but  cream,  how  much  soever 
it  may  please  the  palate,  will  occasionally  render  the  tea 
less  wholesome  by  producing  some  disturbance  in  the 
'stomach :  cream,  therefore,  with  tea  for  the  dyspeptic 
should  be  avoided.  As  boiling  water  extracts  the  principal 
virtues  of  tea,  an  infusion  only  of  boiling  water  on  it  is 
necessary ;  but  there  is  a  practice  among  many  or  most 
of  our  tea-cooks  which  should  be  avoided,  namely,  that  of 
pouring  into  the  tea-pot  on  the  tea  a  small  quantity  only 
of  boiling  water,  and  after  it  has  infused  some  time  the 
pot  is  then  filled  up.  Instead  of  this,  the  pot  containing 
the  tea  should  be  filled  with  boiling  water  at  once  ;  the 
heat  is  thus  most  effectually  applied.  An  impression  is 
also  abroad  that  metallic  tea-pots  are  better  than  those  of 
earthenware  ;  they  feel  hotter  externally  of  course :  but 
all  metallic  bodies  are  better  conductors  of  heat  than 
earthenware,  and  therefore  not  so  well  suited  for  making 
tea  as  earthenware  pots  are,  such  as  those  made  of  what 
is  called  Wedgewood’s  ware.  This  is,  we  are  aware,  in 
direct  opposition  to  Dr.  Kitciiiner  ;  but  we  are  quite 
willing  to  abide  the  result  of  experience. 

We  are  loth  to  quit  the  subject  of  tea  without  laying 
before  the  reader  Cowper’s  beautiful  lines  on  that  afternoon 
beverage  in  a  winter  evening : — 

i  % 

“  Now  stir  the  fire,  and  close  the  shutters  fast. 

Let  fall  the  curtains,  wheel  the  sofa  round. 

And,  while  the  bubbling  and  loud  hissing  urn 
Throws  up  a  steamy  column,  and  the  cups 
That  cheer  but  not  inebriate,  wait  on  each  ; 

So  let  us  welcome  peaceful  evening  in.” — Task,  hook  iv. 


236 


COFFEE. —  ROASTED  CORN. 


1 


COFFEE  is  the  seeds  of  an  evergreen  shrub,  the  Coffea 
Arabica,  cultivated  in  hot  climates :  it  is  brought  to  this 
country  chiefly  from  Arabia  and  the  East  and  West  Indies: 
that  from  Arabia,  called  Mocha  coffee,  is  the  best.  Coffee 
was  unknown  to  the  Greeks  and  Romans  ;  its  use  is  said 
to  have  originated  in  Ethiopia.  It  was  introduced  into 
England  in  the  year  1652.  The  coffee  shrub  was  first 
planted  in  Jamaica  in  1730. 

Coffee  is  consumed  in  large  quantities  in  this  country  ; 
and  to  the  robust  and  healthy  it  forms  a  pleasant  variety  in 
our  food :  but,  notwithstanding  some  writers  contend  for  the 
useful  medicinal  properties  of  coffee  we  beg  leave  to  repeat 
concerning  it  what  we  have  stated  in  the  Family  Cyclo¬ 
pedia,  namely,  that  “  a  burnt  vegetable  containing  a 
portion,  however  small,  of  oil,  which  has  become  more  or 
less  acid  or  rancid  by  heat  can  suit  few  stomachs  where 
debility  is  present ;  and  we  fear  that  the  addition  of  sugar 
and  cream  to  the  decoction,  under  such  circumstances,  is 
only  calculated  to  increase  the  mischief.” 

Coffee  has  been  often  imitated.  At  the  present  time 
wheat  (and,  perhaps,  some  other  corn,  such  as  rye)  is 
roasted  and  sold  under  the  name  of  roasted  corn ;  the  same 
objections  apply  to  it  as  to  coffee  for  the  dyspeptic,  except 
that,  as  it  very  probably  contains  less  oil,  it  might  suit  the 
stomach  better  than  coffee,  both  which  require  to  be  boiled, 
in  order  that  their  virtues  may  be  completely  extracted. 
Coffee  is  employed  by  the  French  in  a  much  stronger  decoc¬ 
tion  than  it  is  in  this  country ;  but,  notwithstanding  fashion 
may  advocate  strong  coffee,  (Kitchiner  says  you  ought 
to  take  an  ounce  of  it  for  two  breakfast  cups  !)  we  advise  no 
such  extravagance  ;  but  rather  refer  to  M.  Morin,  Manuel 
d' Hygiene,  who  says,  “  whatever  may  be  its  action  on  the 
stomach,  it  is  with  coffee  as  with  every  thing  else,  we 
should  use  but  not  abuse  it.”*  Tea  is,  beyond  question,  a 
much  more  wholesome  beverage  than  coffee  for  the  gene¬ 
rality  of  Englishmen. 

•  Quelle  que  soit  son  action  sur  1’estomac,  il  en  est  du  cafe 
comme  de  toute  autre  chose,  il  faut  en  user  et  ne  pas  en 
abuser. 


CHOCOLATE  AND  COCOA.  237 

CHOCOLATE  and  COCOA.  The  Chocolate  tree,  the 
Theobroma  cacao  is  a  native  of  South  America;  it  pro¬ 
duces  a  fruit  resembling  a  cucumber' in  shape  ;  when  ripe 
it  is  a  bluish  red  with  pink  veins.  Each  fruit  or  pod  con¬ 
tains  from  twenty  to  thirty  brown  nuts  or  kernels  in  shape 
somewhat  like  an  almond,  but  thicker  and  broader  ;  these 
are  the  chocolate  nuts ,  which,  after  being  roasted  or  parched, 
are  pounded  or  ground  into  a  paste  with  some  aromatics, 
and,  it  is  said,  soap;  and,  thus  the  chocolate  of  the  shops  is 
found  formed  into  cakes.  The  cocoa  nuts,  themselves,  are 
now  also  to  be  obtained  in  the  shops  ground  similarly  to 
coffee,  with  which  a  sort  of  chocolate  may  be  made.  The 
nuts  contain  a  considerable  portion  of  a  white  oily  matter 
Which  when  obtained  from  them  by  boiling  is  about  the 
consistence  of  suet.  From  the  shells  of  the  cocoa  nuts  is 
also  prepared  with,  perhaps,  a  portion  of  the  nut  itself 
the  substance  obtained  in  the  shops  called  cocoa. 

From  this  account  of  these  substances  it  is  clear  that  they 
all  contain,  especially  the  two  first,  namely,  chocolate  and 
cocoa  nuts,  considerable  nutritive  properties  ;  but  they  con¬ 
tain  so  much  oil,  not  certainly  improved  by  the  heat  em¬ 
ployed,  as  to  render  them  very  unsuitable  for  almost  all 
dyspeptic  stomachs,  and  hence  they  should,  by  persons 
having  such  stomachs,  be  avoided.  Weak  cocoa  may  be, 
however,  occasionally  employed  as  a  variety  at  the  break¬ 
fast  table,  by  the  dyspeptic,  with  some  advantage. 

Chocolate  is  usually  served  up  well  frothed,  in  order  to 
disguise  the  oil  with  which  it  abounds,  and  for  this  purpose 
the  soap,  mentioned  above,  is  supposed  to  be  added.  We 
cannot  conclude  these  observations  on  chocolate  without  re¬ 
marking  that  it  contains,  in  all  probability,  a  certain  portion 
of  iron  which  may  be  beneficial  as  an  astringent  stimulant  in 
some  cases  of  debility;  but  we  knew  a  lady  who,  on  recover¬ 
ing  from  a  long  fit  of  illness,  took  it  for  sometime  in  strong 
doses  every  morning  for  breakfast ;  it  was  found  to  produce 
such  hard  lumps  in  the  intestines  that  she  was  obliged  to 
have  recourse  to  glysters  to  remove  them ;  and  indeed,  she 
suffered  so  much  from  the  chocolate  breakfast  that  she  was 
at  length  obliged  to  leave  it  off  entirely,  nutritious  to  her  as 
it  eminently  was. 


238  OBSERVATIONS  ON  VEGETABLES. 

Note  that  some  of  our  dried  English  herbs,  as  balm, 
are  occasionally  employed  as  tea,  to  this  we  see  no  objec¬ 
tion.  See  also  Ginger,  page  188,  and  Sage,  page  191. 

CONCLUDING  OBSERVATIONS  ON  VEGETA¬ 
BLES.  From  what  has  been  said,  on  this  important  chap¬ 
ter  of  our  work,  it  will  be,  we  believe,  pretty  evident  that 
those  plants  which  afford  the  most  starch  will,  in  general, 
be  found  the  most  easy  of  digestion ;  that  is,  which  pro¬ 
duce  the  least,  if  any,  inconvenience  in  the  stomach ;  but 
wheat,  in  this  respect,  forms  a  remarkable  exception : 
for,  although  the  most  nutritious  of  vegetables,  its  large 
portion  of  gluten  demands  peculiar  preparation  before  it 
becomes  fit  to  be  submitted  to  the  process  of  digestion.  See  ' 
that  article  above.  And  we  trust  that  every  one  will 
become  impressed  with  the  following  truth  in  regard  to 
cookery,  eating  and  digestion,  namely,  “  that  it  is  not 
what  we  eat  which  nourishes,  but  what  we  well  digest ;  that 
nothing  has  so  much  influence  on  the  moral  conduct  of  an 
individual,  whoever  he  may  be,  as  the  manner  in  which 
digestion  is  performed.”*  This  may  be  a  startling  truth  to 
many  persons  ;  but  it  will  be  found,  nevertheless,  correct 
and  deserving  the  most  serious  attention  of  every  son  and 
daughter  of  Adam.  Let  those  who  doubt  it  consult,  for  a 
moment,  the  different  state  of  their  feelings  before  and  after 
any  repast ;  nay  let  them  observe  their  mental  processes 
before  and  after  having  taken  a  glass  of  good  and  exhila¬ 
rating  wine.  How  many  a  master  of  a  family  has  come 
home,  after  the  fatigue  and  annoyance  of  the  business  of  the 
day,  peevish,  fretful,  and  looking  at  every  thing  and  every 
body  with  the  greatest  distaste  ;  let  the  dinner  pass,  and  if 
he  has  been  prudent  in  the  gratification  of  his  appetite,  he 
becomes  another  man  !  Of  this,  too,  we  may  be  well  assured, 
that  excessive  or  long  continued  hunger  is  destructive  of 
the  social  and  moral  feelings ;  while  moderate  hunger,  and 
of  short  duration,  is,  on  the  contrary,  the  best  of  all 

*  “  Ce  n’est  pas  ce  qu’on  mange  qui  nourrit,  mais  bien  ce  que 
l’on  digere,  et  que  rien  n’influe  autantsur  le  moral  d’un  individu, 
quel  qu’il  soit,  que  la  maniere  dont  se  fait  sa  digestion.” — 
Cardtlli,  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  271. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  VEGETABLES.  239 


pauce,  and  tends 


to  sober  the  judgment  and  improve  the 

man. 

On  VEGETABLES  we  must  add  another  word  or  two. 
Although  we  cannot  coincide  with  some  persons,  a  very 
i>mall  minority  indeed  in  this  as  well  as  other  countries, 
'jvho  would  persuade  us  that  Vegetable  Cookery  only  is 
mtitled  to  attention  ;  in  a  word,  that  man  can  exist,  and 
comfortably  exist  to,  without  the  use  of  any  animal  food  ; 
IVet  we  admit,  and  our  notice  of  Vegetables  in  this  chap- 
er  will  confirm  our  sentiments,  that  they  form  a  most 
important  part  of  the  sustenance  of  man ;  and  that 
Vegetables  aptly  chosen,  properly  cooked,  and  com¬ 


bined  with  a  moderate  portion  of  animal  food,  appear  to 
is,  after  a  long  and  extensive  experience,  the  best  suited 
fjjd  the  health,  comfort,  and  well  being  of  the  human  race. 
I^xceptions  to  the  employment  of  animal  food  at  all  will, 
10  doubt,  be  found ;  indeed  we  know  several  gentlemen 
rho  have  passed  a  long  life  without  the  use  of  much,  if 
Iny,  animal  food;  but  they  are  exceptions,  and  cannot 
Iperefore  be  taken  as  criteria  of  what  man,  with  his  va- 
ious  tastes,  habits,  and  employments,  generally  requires, 
jhe  abuse  of  any  kind  of  food  is  no  argument  against  its 
Ibe;  for  if  it  were,  we  scarcely  know  any  important 
nimal  or  vegetable,  nor  indeed  scarcely  any  other  im¬ 
portant  aliment,  fermented  liquors  and  the  various  kinds  of 
I  \pirits  included,  that  ought  not  to  be  pi'ohibited.  Man  is 
(jndowed  with  instincts,  tastes,  many  of  which  cannot  be 
Ikfely  contravened ;  it  is  the  business  of  his  reason  to 
i \egulate  them. 


- Now  then,  go  ye 

Peruse  the  Book  of  Nature,  ample  tome  ! 

Which  whoso  runs  may  read  ;  which  whoso  reads 
With  fit  humility  and  fair  desire. 

Shall  never  fail  to  learn  what  most  becomes 
Inquiring  man  to  know.  Even  COOKERY  there. 
Doffing  her  pride,  and  donning  simple  dress. 
Shall  be  raised  up  from  a  degraded  art 
And  win  from  all  attention. 


240 


CHAPTER  XI. 

PUDDINGS  AND  PIES,  TARTS  AND  PUFFS,  PAN¬ 
CAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 

1 

— 


r 


[Our  Council  of  Cooks  having-  determined,  after  mature 
deliberation,  that  a  Cookery  Book ,  to  be  most  exten 
sively  useful,  ought  to  contain  not  only  directions  for 
the  practice  of  the  art,  but  also  an  exposition  of  the  prin¬ 
ciples  upon  which  the  art  is,  or  ought  to  be,  founded,  and 
of  the  effects  of  many  different  agents  on  the  process  of 
digestion  and  on  the  general  health ;  and  also,  that  such 
exposition  should  be  accompanied  with  some  amusement  a.- 
well  as  information  connected  with  the  general  subject,  we 
make  no  apology  for  laying  before  our  readers  the  following 
SKETCH.] 


A  SOP  IN  THE  PAN; 

OR,  A 

BONNE  BOUCHE  FOR  THE  GOURMANDS; 

TO  WHOM 

IT  IS  RESPECTFULLY  INSCRIBED. 


Trahit  sua  quemque  wluptas. 


There  are  who  say,  and  not  a  few, 

Our  Cooking  Precepts  are  not  true ; — 
Such  are  the  Fashionable  Throng, — 

But  Fashion  frequently  is  wrong ! 

Behold,  then,  for  each  Gourmand  sinner 
A  sketch,  no  more,  of  modern  dinner. 


A  BONNE  BOUCHE. 


241 


Nota  Bene. 

[Sit  down  at  eight  o'clock  at  night* 

What  time  the  lamps  are  burning  bright ; 

Bring  with  you  a  good  appetite, 

If  that  you  have  it,  and  if  not, 

Go,  get  you  one  from  Doctor  Scott ! 

Attentive  to  the  drawn  Programme, 

From  dish  in  chief  to  simple  jam, 

The  Waiters  will  the  whole  arrange, 

And  all  the  dishes  duly  change ; 

But  don't  forget  the  Silver  Fork,f 
Essential  to  all  gourmand  wor/c.] 

j  *  One  of  tlie  greatest  evils  in  fashionable  society  and  in  the 
slife  of  the  respectable  citizen,  is  that  of  the  late  hour  to  which  the 
dinner  is  too  often  protracted.  The  effects  of  dining  late  are 
■manifold  ;  one  is,  that  the  desire  for  food  becomes  sometimes  so 
intense,  that  more  than  twice  the  quantity  which  the  stomach  can 

Ibonveniently  elaborate  is  taken,  than  which,  assisted  by  the 
tempting  variety  of  a  plentiful  table,  nothing  is  so  permanently 
injurious  to  the  digestive  functions,  and  ultimately  to  the  health; 

,  mother  effect  is,  that,  by  such  repletion,  the  mental  functions  are, 
jn  great  measure,  suspended,  and  a  person  who  has  thus  indul¬ 
ged,  becomes,  too  often,  a  mere  animal,  and  desires  nothing  but 
.i  rest  and  sleep,  or  both.  Now,  the  reverse  of  all  this  takes  place  by 
partaking  of  an  early  dinner.  For  ourselves,  whenever  we  have 
men  obliged  to  yield  to  the  late  dinner-hour,  and  we  never  have 
villingly  done  so,  we  have  made  it  a  point  invariably  to  dine  as 
isual  at  our  own  dinner-hour  at  home,  namely,  between  one  and 
wo  o’clock,  and  then  only  off  some  simple  viand,  as  a  beef-steak 
nd  a  potatoe ;  hence,  at  the  late  dinner-hour,  the  desire  for  food 
las  been  moderate ;  and  with  discretion  in  our  choice  of  it,  we 
ave  not  suffered  much,  if  any,  inconvenience.  This  our  practice 
3,  we  conceive,  much  better  than  that  of  many  who,  avoiding  a 
t  tegular  meal,  have  recourse,  nevertheless,  to  soups,  jellies,  tarts, 
tms,  or  sweetmeats,  to  remove  the  aching  void  of  inanition. 

t  Although  silver  forks  are  now  found  on  every  table  where 
tshion  is  predominant,  and  are,  it  must  be  admitted,  preferable  to 
lose  made  of  iron  or  steel,  when  acids  constitute  a  part  of  our 
>od,  yet  it  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  they  are  of  modern  intro- 
uction.  Dr.  Heylyn,  in  his  Cosmography ,  published  more  than 
vo  hundred  years  ago,  speaking  of  the  Chinese  says,  that  “  they 
it  their  meat  with  two  sticks  of  ivory,  ebony,  or  the  like  ;  not 
mcliing  it  with  their  hands  at  all,  and,  therefore,  no  great  foulers 
linen.  The  use  of  silver  forks  with  us,  by  some  of  our  spruce 
illants  taken  up  of  late,  came  from  hence  into  Italy,  and  from 
ience  into  England.”  Dr.  King  ( Letters  prefixed  to  his  Art  of 
ookery)  doubts  Heylyn’s  statement  as  to  the  origin  of  silver 

M 


242 


A  BONNE  BOUCHE 

Soup — Turtle,  Mock,  or  Pease  or  Beef, 

Precedes,  of  course,  a  dish  in  chief ;  , 

Then  come  the  Fish,  Flesh,  Fowl,  Roast,  Boil  d, 
For  which  all  day  the  Cook  hath  toil  d , 

Game,  with  its  Fumet— flavour,  smell,— 

(The  long-kept  Venison,  unpaunch’d  Hare, 

And  Birds  we  need  not  here  declare,) — 

The  which  all  Gourmands  know  full  well : 

It  stands  upon  the  very  brink  ^ 

Of  what  some  persons  call  a  stink  O 
Quenelles,  and  Sauces,  and  Ragouts, 

With  Fricassees,  Made  Dishes,  Stews ; 

Others,  with  designations  strange 
Of  names  we  need  not  here  arrange, 

As  Mullagatawny ,f  aye,  the  same, 

Well  known  to  epicurean  fame. 

The  Vegetables  numerous  were, 

Some  common,  but  far  more  were  rare. 

Some  fricasseed,  some  form  d  a  stew  , 

Though  various,  all  were  very  few  ! 

Here  let  us  pause. — “  Bring  Lady  Shandy 
“  Some  Usquebaugh,  quick!  quick!  or  Brandy! 
u  I  hope  your  Ladyship’s  not  sick;  - 
“  The  soup,  I  fear,  was  made  too  thick  ! — 
u  It  ought  to  be  the  best  I  m  sure, 

“  The  Flour  put  in  it  was  most  pure !” 


forks ;  and  in  speaking  of  forks  he  says,  “  the  steel  ones  are 
bibental,  the  silver  generally  resemble  tr.dents ;  which  makes  me 
think  them  to  be  as  ancient  as  the  Saturnian  race,  where  t 
former  is  appropriated  to  Pluto  and  the  latter  to  Neptune.  But 
who  can  settle  such  historical  difficulties  ?  The  curious  concern¬ 
in'^  forks  may  see  more  about  them  in  Dr.  King  s  Letters. 

*  We  knew  a  gentleman  who  advertised  generally  among  his 
Mends,  that  when  any  of  them  had  a  hare  so  far  gone  in  decom¬ 
position  that  they  could  not  eat  it,  he  would  be  greatly  obliged  if 

thev  would  send  it  to  him !  ,  .  ,  , 

/ A  most  unfortunate  omission!  this  article,  we  find,  is  not  set 
down  in  our  chapter  of  soups  ;  we  hasten  to  correct  the  error  : 

Mullagatawny  or  Mulligatawney  (lor  the  books  give  it  both 
ways)  means,  it  is  said,  pepper-water;  but .this i  we,  who  are  not 
learned  in  the  Sanscrit  or  other  East-Iudian  languages,  cannot 

'‘"'muTlagatIwny  Soup  is,  however  some  good  soup  flavoured 
or  spoiled  with  plenty  of  pepper  and  crime  powder:  the  whole 
secret  of  the  mullagatawny  met  with  in  this  country. 


FOR  THE  GOURMANDS. 


243 


“  Sir  'J'homas!  health’s  in  that  Champagne; — 
“  Drink,  and  it  will  not  be  in  vain !” 

Tlie  glasses  clatter,  wines  abound, 

And  many  a  health  now  passes  round. 

Now  look,  and  lo !  what  you  shall  see, — 
Much  pittoresque  patisserie, — 

The  works  of  fanciful  Careme,* 

To  him  an  everlasting  theme  ! 

Then  come  plum-pudding,  tarts,  and  pie, 

For  which  the  full-grown  babies  sigh. 

Ices  wad  jellies,  custards,  jams, 

All  which  adown  the  gourmand  crams. 

Or  ere  the  grand  Dessert  arrests, 

A  word  or  two  about  the  guests : 

They  were,  believe  us,  one  and  all, 

Fit  convives  for  a  Baron’s  hall; 

Wits,  Beauties,  Lady  fair,  and  Knight, 

Maidens,  of  such  bewitching  mien, 

That  to  be  lov’d  need  but  be  seen ; 

Such  were  they  at  that  banquet  bright ! 


The  Dessert. 

Peaches,  with  glowing  skins  of  down ; 
Delicious  Pine, f  with  thorny  crown; 

Sweet  Nectarines  ;  Plums  of  various  pride, 
Display’d  their  bright  and  tempting  side  ; 
And  other  fruits,  both  rich  and  rare; 
Lo-quats  \  and  Grapes  beyond  compare. 


*  See  some  account  of  this  gentleman  in  page  122:  his  work, 
1  Le  Patissier  Pittoresque,”  is  certainly  an  inimitable  production. 
)n  the  uses  and  abuses  of  Pastry,  see  forwards. 

t  The  pine-apple  is  the  fruit  of  the  bromelia  ananas,  a  singular 
dant  found  native  in  the  warm  parts  of  South  America  and 
Vfrica.  It  has  been  cultivated  in  Europe  since  about  the  middle 
f  the  seventeenth  century.  The  varieties  are  numerous.  We 
onsider  the  pine-apple  one  of  the  richest  and  most  wholesome  of 
ruits. 

$  The  Loquat  belongs  to  the  medlar  tribe  of  fruit;  it  is  the  pro- 
luce  of  the  mespilus  Japonica,  a  lofty  tree,  native  of  japan.  It  was 
ntroduced  into  England  in  1787,  where  by  careful  culture  it  pro- 
uces  an  oval  fruit  about  the  size  of  a  small  apricot,  which  has  ite 
dmirers.  See  Hort.  Transact,  vol.  iii. 

M  2 


244 


A  BONNE  BOUCHE 


Figs,  Prunes,  a  load  of  foreign  cates, — 

Pomegranates*  Raisins,  Almonds,  Dates:  f 
Many  of  these,  but  chief  the  Fig, l 
With  horrid  indigestion  big. 

The  Orange,  Melon,  Nuts  to  crack ; 

In  short  all  known  to  fame  or  art, 

Of  this  dessert  made  up  a  part ; 

And  Wine  of  each  inviting  smack, 

From  Port,  Champagne,  to  Virgin.  Lacfi 

*  Pomegranates  are  the  fruit  of  the  punica  granatum,  a  deciduous 
tree  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  Barbary,  and  China.  It  grows 
in  the  open  air  in  this  country,  w'here  it  has  long  been  known; 
but  its  fruit  is  not  good.  What  we  obtain  in  the  shops  is  import¬ 
ed  ;  that  from  the  West  Indies,  to  which  the  tree  was  carried 
from  Europe,  is  said  to  be  better  than  the  fruit  in  its  native 
climates.  Many  persons  like  pomegranates;  we  think  them 
mawkish ;  they  are  certainly  improper  for  the  dyspeptic.  The 
peel  is  a  valuable  astringent. 

t  Dates  are  the  produce  of  the  date  palm,  the  phoenix  dactylifera, 
a  tree  native  of  the  Levant  and  Africa.  Dates  are  valuable  as 
lood  to  the  inhabitants  of  their  native  climates ;  but  here  they 
seem  to  partake  of  the  properties  of  the  preserved  fig  (which  see); 
they  disagree  with  many  stomachs. 

I  Figs  are  the  fruit  of  the  ficus  carica,  a  tree  native  of  the  south 
of  Europe  and  some  parts  of  Asia.  They  are  also  produced  from 
trees  growing  in  this  country,  and  by  some  persons,  in  their  ripe 
and  recent  state,  are  esteemed.  The  figs  found  in  the  shops  are 
preserved  by  a  peculiar  process,  and  imported  from  various  places 
bordering  on  the  Mediterranean.  They  are  usually  soft  and 
sweet,  and  contain  an  abundance  of  the  ingredients  necessary  to 
produce  fermentation,  namely,  gluten  and  sugar,  hence,  when 
eaten,  they  soon  excite  disturbance  in  the  stomach  of  most  persons 
whose  digestion  is  not  of  the  first  order.  They  are  called  in  the 
west  of  England  dough  figs,  a  very  expressive  term  for  them. 

§  Virgin’s  milk.  We  see  no  necessity  here  for  enlarging  our 
list  of  tvines  and  liqueurs,  too  many  of  which  encumber  the  tables 
of  modern  entertainments ;  their  various  names  may  be  learnt  from 
the  Cuisinier  Royal ;  we  shall  say  something  more  about  them  in 
a  subsequent  portion  of  our  work.  Nor  are  we  disposed  to  extol 
the  wine  usually  drank  by  mortals  as  being  like  the  fabulous 
nectar  of  the  gods,  or  like  that  given  to  the  poets  at  the  banquet 
at  which  Apollo  presided.  (See  below.)  We  are  quite  willing 
to  admit  that  good  u-ine  is  a  valuable  stimulant  when  taken  dis¬ 
creetly  ;  yet  we  cannot  subscribe  to  the  monkish  dictum, 

Cum  in  arce  cerebri  Bacchus  dominatur 
In  me  Phoebus  irruit  ac  miranda  fatur. 

There  is  however  so  much  of  the  truly  poetical  in  the  following 
lines,  that  the  reader  will  not  be  displeased  at  our  placing  them 
before  him  : 


FOR  THE  GOURMANDS. 


245 


Liqueurs,  such  as  parfait  amour;* 

Of  Usquebaugh \  an  ample  store; — 

Brandi/  alone  or  mix’d  with  Wine! 

On  such  all  Fashionables  dine! 

But,  ere  the  banquet  be  complete, 

There  yet  remains  a  snug  retreat, 

Where  Coffee,  Tea,  and  Cream, t  and  Toast, 

Do  honour  to  the  worthy  host. 

For  such  repasts  how  many  sigh  ? 

Of  such  repasts  how  many  die  ? 

Be  now  sincere  and  candid ;  tell 
When  such  can  e’er,  by  chance,  be  well! 

Yet  few  are  they  who  can  abide 
Or  stem  this  fashionable  tide  ; — 

Though  judgment  often  frown  dissent; 

Though  pierc’d  by  natural  punishment : 

What  though  the  stomach  sorely  ache, 

The  mind  its  maladies  partake  ;§ 

Though  the  gorg’d  liver  give  a  twang ; — 

Though  pain  around  its  regions  hang ; — 

“  For  the  God  had  no  sooner  determin’d  the  fare, 

“  Than  it  turn’d  to  whatever  was  racy  and  rare  ; 

“  The  fish  and  the  flesh,  for  example,  were  done, 

“  On  account  of  their  fineness,  in  flame  from  the  sun  ; 

“  The  wines  were  all  nectar  of  different  smack, 

“  To  which  Muskat  was  nothing,  nor  Vivginis  Lac ; 

“  No,  nor  Lachryma  Christi,  though  clearly  divine, 

“  Nor  Montepu.lcia.no ,  though  king  of  all  wine  !”* 

Leigh  Hunt’s  Feast  of  the  Poets. 

*  Perfect  Love. 

t  If  we  desire  to  learn  how  readily  a  word,  even  of  a  living 
anguage,  becomes  corrupted  when  transferred  to  another,  it  is 
exemplified  in  a  very  striking  manner  in  usquebaugh,  which  is 
written  by  the  French  scuba;  see  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  528. 

$  Many  have  been  the  vituperations  hurled  at  those  who  supply 
the  inhabitants  of  the  metropolis  with  milk  and  cream.  We  have 
no  desire  to  encourage  adulterations  of  food  of  any  kind ;  but  it 

Jinay  be  questioned  whether  good  rich  milk  in  tea  or  coffee,  and, 
above  all,  thick  cream,  be  not  much  more  injurious  to  the  stomach 
of  the  citizen  than  the  milk  and  water  with  which  we  are  usually 
supplied.  Cream  appears  to  disturb  the  functions  of  the  stomach 
much  more  readily  than  butter;  it  contains,  besides  the  animal 
Ijoil,  a  small  portion  of  albumen,  serum,  and  sugar. 

\  §  See  what  is  said  on  this  subject  at  the  conclusion  of  the  last 

Chapter,  page 23S,  as  well  as  the  General  Observations  below. 

*  Montepulciano  d’  ogno  Vino  6  il  Re. — Redi,  Racco  in  Toscano. 


246 


A  BONNE  BOUCHE. 


Though  Dropsy  swell,  though  Asthma  tease , 
Though  scarcely  a  moment  have  they  ease  ; 
Though  Gout,  with  many  a  rack  and  ache, 
All  rest,  all  pleasure  from  them  take; 

What  though  Dyspepsia*  in  her  train 
Lead  captive  oft  the  suffering  brain ; 

What  though  the  Doctor  send  his  pills 
To  mitigate,  not  cure,  their  ills — 

Firm  in  their  epicurean  course, 

They  still  go  on  from  bad  to  worse, — 
Careless  of  causes  obvious,  nigh, 

And  thus  they  live,  and  thus  they  die ! 

But  Gentles!  all  who  read  our  book — 
Perchance  are  pleas’d  in  it  to  look — - 
You  will  not  fling  the  tome  aside, 

Because  it  touches  human  pride ; 

You  will  not  readily  forget — 

There  might  be  balm  in  Gilead  yet ! 

And,  therefore,  if,  with  humble  mind 
You  search,  perhaps  you  yet  may  find. 
Examine  all  things  for  yourselves  ; 

See,  if  for  Truth  one  aptly  delves, 

Learn  whether  Knowledge  might  not  cure 
The  ills  which  many  now  endure 
From  food  or  drink  or  their  excess, — • 

And  may  reward  inquiry  bless. 

Try  what  we  tell;  yet  put  no  trust 
In  aught  but  what  is  useful,  just. 

We  ask  no  confidence  of  you, — 

Our  objects  are  the  useful,  true, 

And  these  we  ask  you  to  pursue, 

Assur’d  that,  thus,  you  may  attain 
Much  mastery  o’er  human  pain  ; 

And,  for  you  must  desire  the  treasure, 

Much  mastery  o’er  human  pleasure. 


General  Observations.  As  we  are  in  this  Chapter 
about  to  enter  into  a  description  of  those  dishes,  of  many  of 
which  wheat-flour  constitutes  an  essential  ingredient,  we 

•  Bad  digestion,  a  complaint  it  is  to  be  feared  on  the  increase  in 
this  country,  and  more  especially  in  our  cities  and  large  towns; 
how  much  it  is  aggravated  by  late  hours,  and  the  improper  food 
taken  by  the  citizen,  we  do  not  here  determine. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  DYSPEPSIA. 


247 


beg  leave  to  direct  the  reader’s  attention  not  only  to ’what 
we  have  said  in  the  above  lines,  but  also  to  intreat  that  re¬ 
ference  be  made  to  those  observations  on  wheat-flour  which 
appear  in  various  preceding  parts  of  our  work ;  as  well  as 
more  especially  to  what  is  said  under  the  constituents  of 
vegetables  and  of  wheat  in  the  last  chapter.  Although  we 
have  to  lament  that  so  many  persons  suffer  from  eating  and 
drinking  too  much,  or  of  what  is  improper  for  them;  yet 
we  cannot  suppose  that  they  would  voluntarily  inflict  misery 
upon  themselves  were  they  thoroughly  assured  that  their 
practices  were  bad;  no  :  their  chief  mistake  lies,  we  believe, 
in  their  not  being  accurate  observers ;  in  their  not  per¬ 
ceiving  that  though  our  desire  for  food,  when  the  stomach 
is  in  a  healthy  state ,  may  be  in  general  safely  followed, 
yet  that  it  cannot  be  trusted  to  when  the  stomach  is  in  a 
diseased  state :  for  nothing  is  more  true  than  this :  that 
we  often  relish  both  food  and  drink  very  much ,  and  yet 
no  sooner  shall  either  pass  into  the  stomach ,  when  that 
organ  is  diseased,  than  a  series  of  dyspeptic  symptoms 
begin,  %vhich  lead  both  to  pain  of  body  and  misery  of 
mind. 

We  wish  such  persons  could  become  assured  of  this 
truth,  concerning  which  wre  have,  however,  no  desire  to 
dogmatise;  we  merely  beg  leave  respectfully  to  call  atten¬ 
tion  to  the  fact,  convinced  that  the  more  the  subject  is 
examined  the  more  striking  will  such  fact  become. 

We  shall  take  other  occasions  of  commenting  on  the  uses 
and  abuses  of  pastry ;  but  we  may  here  emphatically  note 
the  absurdity,  after  having  made  an  excellent  repast  of 
animal  and  vegetable  food,  of  loading  the  stomach  with 
puddings  or  pies;  surely  enough  is  as  good  as  a  feast! 
and  though  the  adage  be  homely,  it  is  founded  both  in 
nature  and  in  truth. 

In  mixing  flour,  in  particular,  as  well  as  other  farinace¬ 
ous  substances  with  liquids,  in  order  to  make  them  into  a 
paste  or  a  batter,  which  is  merely  a  thin  paste,  care  should 
be  taken  to  mix  the  liquid  in  small  quantity  at  a  time,  in 
order  to  prevent  the  flour  or  other  material  from  becoming 
clotty;  it  is  true,  in  regard  to  paste,  that  the  rolling-pin  or 
kneading  will  generally  obviate  the  inconvenience  ;  but  in 


248 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


regard  to  batter ,  more  caution  in  this  respect  will  be  neces¬ 
sary,  in  order  to  avoid  considerable  trouble  ;  some  indeed 
direct  batter  to  be  strained  through  a  coarse  hair-sieve,  by 
which  means  the  lumps  will  be  separated,  as  well  as  the 
treadles  of  the  eggs,  should  any  eggs  be  in  the  composition. 
It  is  also  the  best  way,  after  the  eggs  designed  for  any 
pudding  are  beaten,  to  strain  them  through  a  coarse  sieve 
before  mixing  them  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 

To  insist  upon  the  flour  being  good,  the  eggs  sweet  and 
well  beaten,  that  the  fruit  which  you  employ,  and  particu¬ 
larly  the  currants,  (the  Corinth  raisins)  be  well  washed,  and 
the  stones  and  other  foreign  matter  separated  from  them ; 
and  that  all  other  raisins  have  the  stones  taken  out  of  them, 
and  be  previously  well  washed ;  to  insist,  in  short,  that  all 
the  materials  of  which  puddings  and  pies  are  made,  should 
be  of  the  best  quality,  and  in  the  greatest  perfection,  might 
seem  superfluous;  but  there  are  persons  occasionally  en¬ 
gaged  in  cooking,  who  require  to  be  reminded  or  told  of 
such  apparently  simple  and  obvious  things. 

The  following  DIRECTIONS  FOR  BOILED  PUD¬ 
DINGS  demand  the  cook’s  attention.  If  you  boil  your 
pudding  in  a  cloth  or  bag,  dip  it,  being  previously  well 
cleaned  and  sweet,  into  boiling  water,  then  press  it  dry, 
and  let  it  be  well  floured  before  the  pudding  is  put  into  it. 
If  it  be  a  ^read-pudding,  it  is  usual  to  tie  it  loosely;  and  if 
a  6af£er-pudding,  the  common  direction  in  our  cookery- 
books  is  to  tie  it  close;  but  of  this  we  do  not  approve: 
batter-puddings,  as  well  as  those  made  of  suet,  &c.  should 
be  tied  somewhat  loosely  to  allow  for  the  expansion  of  the 
ingredients  ;  such  puddings  as  rice  and  pease  should,  after 
boiling  for  some  time,  be  taken  up  and  loosened  in  the 
cloth,  in  order  to  give  more  room  for  their  expansion,  and 
then  be  again  set  to  boil. 

If  the  pudding  be  boiled  in  a  bason,  and  most  puddings 
in  respectable  families  are  now  thus  boiled,  the  inside  of  the 
bason  should  be  previously  buttered.  All  puddings  should 
be  put  into  the  water,  of  which  there  should  be  plenty, 
when  it  is  boiling,  except  those  of  rice  and  pease ,  which 
may  be  put  into  the  water  wThen  it  is  cold.  If  much  of  the 
water  escape  during  the  process,  more  should  be  added 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


249 


■ 

;  boiling  hot.  Some  direct  the  boiler  to  be  uncovered;  we, 
on  the  contrary,  say,  and  cleanliness  demands  that  the 
cover  should  be  kept  on. 

Puddings  should  be  boiled  alone,  not  with  other  food,  in 
j order  that  no  improper  taste  may  be  communicated  to  them ; 
yet  there  is  no  objection  to  suet-pudding  being  boiled  with 
beef.  If  the  pudding  be  boiled  in  a  bag  or  cloth,  it  should 
be  occasionally  moved,  so  that  it  may  be  prevented  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom  or  sides  of  the  vessel. 

The  Time  of  boiling  Puddings  must  be  varied  according 
to  their  size  and  the  quality  of  their  ingredients ;  puddings 
made  with  suet  and  wheat-flour,  writh  or  without  fruit,  will 
require  three  or  even  more  hours  to  render  them  suitable 
for  the  stomach.  Rice  and  pease  puddings  must  be  boiled 
till  they  are  tender ;  but  as  rice  consists  principally  of 
starch,  too  much  boiling  of  it  will  abstract  a  portion  of  its 
nutritive  property,  and  make  the  remainder  too  mucilagi¬ 
nous  to  be  ag-reeable.  Too  much  boiling  of  pudding  is  not, 
how'ever,  an  error  which  the  cook  is  very  likely  to  commit. 
In  the  absence  of  eggs  for  puddings,  some  employ  small 
beer,  or,  which  is  much  better,  yeast ;  but  if  wheat-flour 
form  a  portion  of  the  paste  when  yeast  is  employed,  some 
time  should  be  allowed  for  the  paste  to  ferment  before  it  is 
submitted  to  the  boiler:  others  again  use  snow;  but  this 
■  ‘scarcely  deserves  mention,  as  it  cannot  be  often  obtained  in 
this  country.  In  order  to  make  wholesome  puddings,  the 
cook  should  know  that  wheat-flour  alone  made  into  a  pud¬ 
ding  with  water,  will  be  hard  and  unwholesome;  that  such 
puddings  require  the  addition  of  suet,  butter,  or  other  fat, 
or  eggs  or  milk,  or  yeast,  to  separate  the  gluten  in  parti¬ 
cular,  and  thus  render  it  more  suitable  to  the  digestive 
functions.  We  consider  milk ,  particularly  that  which  is  to 
be  obtained  in  London,  the  least  proper  of  all  the  articles 
inhere  mentioned;  see  Wheat-Flour,  page  207;  eggs, 
too,  although  very  nutritious,  and  suitable  to  the  stomach 
in  a  state  of  health,  often  render  such  puddings  extremely 
unfit  for  the  dyspeptic. 

If  you  should  accidentally  have  a  pudding  that  does  not 
quite  fill  the  bason,  it  may  be  filled  with  slices  of  bread, 
Iwhich  will  prevent  the  access  of  too  much  water ;  when 
the  pudding  is  done,  the  bread  may  be  removed. 

m  3 


250 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


Note,  that  the  French  order  the  following  puddings  to 
be  boiled  four  hours  :■ — a  pudding  made  with  the  flour  of 
Indian  corn  ;  rice  pudding  and  ajiple  pudding  ;  meal 
pudding,  plum,  and  all  other  kinds  of  pudding,  three  or 
four  hours.  See  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  49. 

A  CABINET  PUDDING.  Soak  six  sponge-cakes  and 
two  ounces  of  ratafias  in  a  glass  of  sweet  wine ;  then  make 
a  custard  as  for  baking,  butter  a  mould,  and  put  dried 
cherries  all  over  it ;  put  in  the  cakes,  and  pour  the  custard 
on  them;  lay  a  buttered  paper  on  the  top,  tie  it  down  close, 
and  steam  it  for  an  hour.  Serve  it  with  the  following 
sauce :  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  some  sugar,  and  a  little  white  wine ;  make 
it  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. — Y. 


CROUTE  AU  POT.  This  dish  is  prepared  by  the 
French,  from  whom  wre  borrow  it,*  in  various  ways;  the 
best  by  far  is  the  following :  pour  upon  the  brown,  not 
burnt,  crust  of  well-baked  bread,  (or  rather  upon  thin 
slices  of  well-toasted  bread,)  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good 
broth  freed  from  the  fat,  or  strong  beef-tea,  so  that  it  may 
simmer  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  in  part  evaporated  but  not 
reduced  to  dryness  ;  when  it  is  sufficiently  gratinee,  that  is, 
rendered  of  a  dark  brown  colour  by  occasional  adhesion  to 
the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  but  it  must  not  be  burnt,  you 
must  add  a  little  more  of  the  broth  or  beef-tea  before  it 
is  served  up.  It  will  require  no  seasoning.  See  Beef- 


tea. 


Note,  that  this  is  recommended  by  the  French  as  an 
excellent  stimulant  where  the  digestion  is  impaired ;  and 
also  instead  of  a  dram  to  be  taken  in  the  morning  or  fore¬ 
noon  after  the  day  of  any  excess  in  food  or  drink ;  to  this 
recommendation  we  most  heartily  subscribe. 

Some  direct  pot-skimming,  and  other  fat,  besides  the 
broth,  to  be  poured  over  the  bread ;  such  may  suit  the 
robust  and  coarse  appetite,  but  the  delicate  and  dyspeptic 
must  avoid  them. 

BREAD  PUDDING.  Cut  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loai 
into  thin  slices,  or,  in  its  stead,  take  thin  slices  of  the 
crumb  of  stale  but  sweet  bread ;  pour  over  the  bread  a 


*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  p.  29. 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


251 


quart  of  milk  made  boiling  hot,  and  cover  it  close  till  the 
bread  is  well  soaked.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  three,  to  which  add  half  an  ounce  of  rose¬ 
water,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  some  sugar,  salt,  and  two 
ounces  of  butter.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  boil  for  an 
hour.  Serve  it  up  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it;  or 
with  sweet  sauce,  composed  of  wine,  sugar,  and  a  little 
butter.  This  pudding  may  be  also  baked. 

WHITE  PUDDING/  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  taking- 
care  that  it  does  not  burn,  one  quart  and  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  wTith  some  grated  nutmeg,  cloves,  pounded  cinnamon, 
and  twelve  ounces  of  sugar.  Pour  the  milk,  after  being- 
strained,  boiling  hot,  upon  half  a  pound  of  the  crumb  of 
stale  white  bread  cut  into  slices ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
remain  till  the  bread  is  well  soaked ;  then  add  a  pound  of 
aeef  suet  chopped  fine  and  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds  blanched  and  wrell  beaten,  with  half  an  ounce 
)f  orange-flower  water,  and  eight  eggs,  from  four  of  which 
•emove  the  whites  ;  add  to  the  whole  half  an  ounce  of  salt, 
ind  mix  all  well  together.  Boil  it  for  an  hour.  Serve  it 
ip  with  the  same  sauce  as  the  preceding. 

Note. — Some  use  cream  instead  of  milk;  but  of  this  we 
!o  not  approve. 

A  BATTER  PUDDING.  Mix  six  spoonsful  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  ginger,  with  a  quart  of 
;ood  milk,  taking  care  to  mix  the  flour,  in  the  first  in- 
tance,  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  milk,  so  that  it  may 
je  prevented  from  becoming  clotty.  Beat  well  the  yolks 
f  six  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three,  and  then  mix  them 
refully  with  the  flour,  milk,  &c.  previously  well  incor- 
rated.  Boil  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve  it  up  with 
ae  same  sauce  as  the  preceding. 

Note.  A  richer  pudding  may  be  made  with  cream ; 
ame  will  add  nutmeg-  and  other  aromatic  condiments  to 
ach  puddings  :  these  additions  must  be  left  to  the  taste 
ad  discretion  of  the  cook. 

This  pudding  is  occasionally  made  without  the  eggs ; 
uit,  such  as  currants,  are  also  sometimes  added  to  it; 
ad  some  will  add  butter,  even  when  eggs  are  employed. 

is  also  sometimes  baked,  for  which  an  hour  will  be 
ifficient. 


252 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


CUSTARD  PUDDING.  Make  a  pint  of  thick  cream 
boiling  hot,  to  which  add  a  little  cinnamon  in  powder  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  when  it  is  cold,  mix  with  it 
the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten;  stir  the  mixture  over 
the  fire  till  it  is  pretty  thick,  but  it  must  not  boil.  When 
cold,  put  it  into  a  bason  and  boil  it  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  or  more.  Serve  it  up  with  some  sugar  grated  over 
it.  The  sauce  may  he  melted  butter  and  a  little  wine  in  a 
boat. 

Note.  One  drop  of  the  oil  of  cinnamon  on  a  lump  of 
sugar,  and  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients,  before  you 
remove  the  eggs,  &c.  from  the  file,  will  flavour  the  pudding 
elegantly. 

ANOTHER  CUSTARD  PUDDING,  sometimes  called 
a  Quaking  Pudding.  Make  a  quart  of  cream  boiling 
hot ;  when  nearly  cold,  mix  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  a 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  add  the  mixture  to  the 
cream  with  some  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  it  for  an 
hour,  and  then  turn  it  carefully  out.  Serve  it  up  with 
melted  butter,  sugar,  and  wine  poured  over  it ;  or  sugar 
may  be  grated  over  it,  and  the  sauce  served  up  in  a  boat. 

CREAM  PUDDING.  Boil  a  quart  of  cream  with  a 
little  mace  for  fifteen  or  more  minutes  ;  then  take  out  the 
mace,  and  let  the  cream  become  cold ;  take  now  six  eggs, 
three  of  the  whites  being  left  out,  beat  them  well,  and  mix 
them,  after  being  strained  through  a  coarse  sieve  with  the 
cold  cream,  to  which  add  one  ounce  of  fine  flour  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg.  Boil  the  whole  in  a  bason  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  it  up  with  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  having  a  glass 
of  white  wine  in  it ;  the  whole  of  which  may  be  poured 
upon  the  pudding,  over  which  some  will,  beside,  strew  fine 
grated  sugar. 

Note,  that  this  pudding  will  be  more  wholesome  if  the 
flour  be  left  out,  and,  in  its  stead,  be  added  two  ounces  of 
pure  starch.  See  Starch,  page  199. 

Note,  also,  that  severed  other  cream  pudding’s  may  be 
made  by  a  little  variation  in  the  ingredients ;  some  of  such 
are  called,  by  those  who  admire  French  cookery,  Cream 
Patissiere:  the  addition  of  the  flavour  of  the  lemon,  in 
particular,  w ill  make  a  pleasing  variety. 

PLUM  PUDDING.  Take  of  raisins  stoned,  currants,  , 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


253 


and  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  of  each  one  pound  ;  of  can¬ 
died  orange  and  candied  lemon-peel,  all  minced  fine,  or 
rather  beaten  into  a  pulp,  of  each  two  ounces  ;  a  little 
grated  nutmeg',  and  other  spices  if  you  choose,  one  pound 
of  flour,  a  gill  of  brandy,  and  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  to 
which  add  a  little  salt.  Mix  the  whole  into  a  paste  of  a 
proper  consistence  with  milk ;  or  some  will  employ  cream 
instead  of  milk.  Let  it  boil  for  five  hours,  and  serve  it 
up  with  a  sauce  made  with  melted  butter,  sugar,  and 
wine  poured  over  it;  after  which  strew  over  it  grated 
sugar. 

Note,  that  this  is  the  old-fashioned  plum  pudding  which 
has  for  ages,  in  this  country,  been  served  up  with  our 
roast  beef.  But  our  modern  cookery  has  so  far  improved 
upon  this  dish  that,  instead  of  using  flour,  we  now  employ 
the  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  the  milk,  and  then  beaten 
into  a  pulp  before  it  is  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients. 
When  bread  is  used  instead  of  flour,  the  pudding  will  take 
an  hour  less  in  the  boiling. 

Note,  also,  that  both  these  puddings  may  be  either 
boiled  or  baked ;  the  reader  will,  from  what  we  have 
already  said,  conclude  that  we  prefer  the  bread  to  the 
flour  in  all  such  puddings. 

A  HUNTING  PUDDING  consists  of  similar  ingre¬ 
dients  to  the  last ;  but  it  has  double  the  quantity  of  currants 
which  it  has  of  raisins,  is  mixed  with  cream  instead  of 
milk,  has  flour,  not  bread,  to  form  it,  and  is  served  up  in 
the  same  way.  It  may  be  also  boiled  or  baked. 

Note,  that  we  shall  have  other  opportunities  of  men¬ 
tioning  the  grape  ;  it  may  be  stated,  however,  here,  that 
the  currants,  so  common  in  pastry,  in  this  country,  are 
the  dried  fruit  of  a  species  of  grape-vine,  the  vitis  Corin- 
\  thic.a,  a  native  of  Greece  and  several  of  the  Grecian 
islands ;  they  were  formerly  produced  chiefly  at  or  near 
Corinth,  whence  the  name,  long  since  corrupted  to  cur¬ 
rants;  they  are  now  brought  to  this  country  chiefly  from 
the  island  of  Zante.  They  are  more  acidulous  than  the 
larger  dried  grapes,  appear  to  contain  less  sugar  than  those, 
and  are,  therefore,  as  food,  more  wholesome,  being  besides 
more  aperient  than  any  of  the  large  raisins,  which  are 
all  the  dried  fruit  of  the  vitis  vinifera,  or  grape-vine,  a 


254 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


native  of  most  temperate  regions  of  the  earth  ;  its  varieties 
both  of  red  and  white  are  very  numerous.  Raisins  are 
imported  from  various  places  bordering  on  the  Mediterranean, 
and  they  have  very  often  the  name  of  the  city  or  town 
whence  they  are  brought.  They  are  eaten  here  at  the 
dessert  and  also  in  puddings  as  above  ;  but  they  are  by  no 
means  a  desirable  food,  as  they  contain  several  of  the 
elements  of  fermentation,  and,  therefore,  should  be  eaten 
sparingly  if  at  all  by  the  dyspeptic  ;  they  should  be  also 
avoided  by  such  persons  in  puddings.  See  raisin  wine 
forwards. 

A  SUET  OR  PLAIN  PUDDING  is  made  in  various 
ways ;  a  very  good  one  thus :  take  one  pound  of  beef  suet 
chopped  fine;  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  two  or  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  and  milk  sufficient  to  make  it  of 
a  proper  consistence  :  a  quart  is  about  the  usual  quantity. 
If  boiled  in  one  pudding  it  will  require  four  hours  or  more  ; 
but  if  divided  into  six  or  eight  parts  as  Dumplings  half 
that  time  will  be  sufficient  for  them. 

Note ,  a  still  plainer  pudding  may  be  made  by  omitting 
the  milk  and  the  eggs,  and  employing  only  water  instead 
of  both,  which  if  well  boiled  will  be  very  good. 

A  richer  one  by  adding  currants,  sugar,  a  little  ginger 
or  some  other  spice,  and  double  the  number  of  eggs  ;  some 
instead  of  flour  will  use  the  crumb  of  bread  well  soaked  in 
the  milk. 

Note,  also,  that  when  any  of  the  mixtures  here  described 
be  made  into  Dumplings,  they  may  he  boiled  in  the  vessel 
with  beef  or  mutton,  without  a  cloth,  and  although  more 
homely  thus  boiled,  they  will  be  nevertheless  more  whole¬ 
some. 

Beef  suet  is  the  best  for  these  puddings  ;  but  some  will 
employ  mutton  suet,  or  even  veal  suet,  or  good  dripping. 

Note,  particularly,  that  the  first  plain  pudding  above 
described,  is  excellent  when  eaten  with  boiled  beef  or 
mutton ;  and  that  all  the  kinds  when  cold  and  cut  into 
slices,  and  fried  or  otherwise  made  hot,  form  an  agreeable 
dish. 

All  these  puddings  may  be  also  baked  as  well  as  boiled  ; 
the  first  is  an  excellent  one  to  be  placed  by  the  side  of  the 
meat  as  described  in  page  56. 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


255 


A  HASTY  PUDDING  is  made  in  various  ways;  but 
in  whichever  way  made,  that  stomach  must  be  in  a  very 
good  state  which  can  digest  it  without  inconvenience.  A 
simple  one  may  be  made  by  merely  mixing  flour  and  water 
to  the  consistence  of  a  thin  pap,  and  then  pouring  the 
mixture  into  boiling  water  suflicient  to  make  it,  when 
boiled  for  a  few  minutes,  of  a  thickish  consistence  :  it  may 
be  then  served  up  with  melted  butter  and  sugar  mixed  with 
it :  some  use  treacle  instead  of  sugar. 

Or,  instead  of  water,  as  above,  milk  may  be  employed 
with  some  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  suflicient  quantity  of 
flour  to  make  it,  when  boiled  for  a  few  minutes,  of  a  pro¬ 
per  consistence  ;  it  may  be  served  with  salt  and  what  other 
condiments  you  choose. 

Note,  we  give  these  mixtures,  but  we  do  not  recommend 
them ;  assuredly  pure  starch  will  make  a  much  more 
wholesome  hasty  pudding  than  flour,  and  as  such  we 
strongly  recommend  it  to  those  who  like  hasty  dishes  of 
this  kind. 

RICE  PUDDING  is  also  made  in  various  ways ;  the 
simplest  and  perhaps  the  best  is  by  boiling  four  ounces  of 
rice  tied  up  in  a  cloth  in  water,  giving  it  room  to  expand, 
for  two  or  more  hours,  and  when  it  is  tender  to  serve  it  up 
with  melted  butter  and  sugar,  to  which  some  will  add  nut¬ 
meg  or  other  spice.  See  Rice,  page  215. 

Note,  some  put  in  with  the  rice  four  ounces  or  more  of 
currants,  which  add  to  the  agreeableness  of  the  dish  ;  some 
may  choose  raisins  instead  of  currants,  but  we  do  not  re¬ 
commend  them. 

SAGO  PUDDING  is  usually  made  by  boiling  two 
ounces  of  sago  in  a  pint  of  milk  till  it  is  tender  ;  when  the 
mixture  is  cold,  two  Naples  biscuits,  a  little  brandy,  sugar, 
Itrated  lemon-peel,  cinnamon  or  other  spice,  and  four  or 
more  eggs  well  beaten  are  added  to  it.  You  may  either 
boil  or  bake  it ;  if  baked,  let  a  cut  paste  border  be  laid 
•ound  the  dish.  The  boiled  pudding  may  be  served  up 
A'ith  a  sauce  composed  of  melted  butter,  wine,  and  sugar. 

Note,  that  sago  (which  is  a  granulated  substance  ob¬ 
tained  from  the  pith  of  several  species  of  the  palm  tree, 
?hiefly  from  the  Cycas  circualis,  or  broad  leaved  cycas, 
hat  grows  in  the  East  Indies,)  is  nearly,  if  not  entirely 


256 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


starch,  and  is,  therefore,  similar  in  its  properties  to  that 
useful  aliment.  And  note,  also,  that  although  the  sago 
being  dissolved  in  the  milk  by  boiling,  will  necessarily  be 
rendered  more  nutritious,  yet,  as  it  must  be  boiled  for  a 
considerable  time  with  the  milk  before  the  grains  become 
tender,  there  is  great  danger  without  uncommon  care,  that 
the  milk  will  acquire  a  burnt  taste  which  will  spoil  your 
pudding ;  a  more  certain  method  will  be  to  boil  the  sago  in 
water,  and  add  milk  to  it,  if  you  choose,  afterwards ;  of 
you  may  add  butter  to  it  and  omit  the  milk. 

APPLE  PUDDING.  Make  a  stiff  paste  with  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  suet  chopped  fine,  or  butter 
or  marrow,  or  good  dripping,  and  a  little  salt  and  water ; 
some  use  milk  instead  of  water.  Let  it  be  well  kneaded 
and  then  rolled  out  thin  ;  line  a  basin  with  it  and  fill  it 
with  good  boiling-  apples  pared,  cut  into  quarters  or  less, 
and  cored.  The  simple  condiment  of  a  little  grated  gingei 
will  render  it  very  pleasant ;  some  will  add  not  only  grated 
lemon  peel  but  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon ;  the  cloves 
may  be  put  in  whole,  but  the  other  spices  should  be  reduced 
to  powder.  Lay  a  thin  paste  on  the  top  and  boil  it  according- 
to  art  When  it  is  taken  up,  cut  it  open  at  the  top,  mix 
some  sugar  with  it,  and  butter  if  you  choose. 

Note,  that  some  use  puff  paste  instead  of  the  above, 
which  see  forward,  and  also  below,  under  other  fruit 
puddings. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS.  Pare  good  boiling  apples  and 
so  cut  them  in  two  as  to  be  enabled  to  take  out  the  cores ; 
make  a  paste  as  directed  for  apple-pudding,  and  roll  it  out 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  enclose  each  apple  in  a  piece 
of  the  paste,  and  tie  each  dumpling  separately  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  them  till  the  apples  are  tender.  Some  prefer  boiling 
them  without  a  cloth  ;  it  is  the  most  economical  way  ;  but 
the  first  is  the  neatest,  and  by  most  considered  the  best; 
others  will  boil  them  in  nets.  They  are  usually  eaten  with 
butter  and  sugar. 

Note,  we  consider  a  well  boiled  apple  dumpling  the 
most  wholesome  of  all  pastry;  there  are  few  stomachs 
with  which  it  will  not  agree.  They  may  be  also  baked ; 
but  they  are  not  so  wholesome  as  when  they  are  boiled. 

OTHER  FRUIT  PUDDINGS,  such  as  the  Gooseberry , 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


257 


the  Red  Currant ,  Plum ,  Cherry ,  Apricot,  both  green  and 
ripe.  Peach,  Nectarine,  Pear,  Blackberry ,  Whorts,  Rasp- 
bery,  8fc.,  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to  apple-pudding. 
But  Raspberries  are  usually  employed  only  with  currants, 
which  they  give  an  agreeable  variety  ;  apples  being  added 
o  blackberries  will  improve  their  flavour  ;  and  some  will 
dd  currants  to  whorts.  The  wall  fruit,  such  as  Peaches , 
Nectarines,  and  Apricots  when  ripe,  are  usually  deprived 
f  their  stones  and  stems,  by  being  pulped  through  a  coarse 
air  sieve,  and  then  made  into  a  pudding  ;  the  paste  of 
uch  is  also,  sometimes,  made  with  cream  or  milk  and 
ggs,  instead  of  wTat,er ;  in  this  case  the  suet  or  other  fat 
is  omitted  and  the  flour  is  in  much  less  quantity. 

Note,  that  all  puddings  which  contain  wheat  flour  are 
much  more  wholesome  boiled  than  baked. 

GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING  is  sometimes  made  by 
ixing  the  fruit  in  any  quantity  you  please  with  the  paste, 
n  a  similar  way  that  currants,  raisins,  &c.  are  mixed  in 
lum-pudding ;  thus  made,  it  is  served  up  with  sugar  and 
utter  poured  over  it. 

PRUNE  and  DAMSON  PUDDINGS  are  also  some- 
imes  made  like  the  preceding,  but,  instead  of  the  flour, 
nilk  and  eggs  are  employed  ;  or,  at  most,  a  very  small 
i  liortion  of  flour  :  when  thus  made, 
lime  in  boiling  than  when  a  large 
nto  the  composition. 

MINCED  MEAT  PUDDING  is  made  by  rolling  out 
he  paste  into  a  large  flat  surface,  laying  the  minced  meat 
ill  over  it,  and  then  rolling  it  into  a  long  roll  and  boiling  it 


.V 

itJ 


they  require  much  less 
portion  of  flour  enters 


i pi  I  n  a  cloth. 


a.. 


An  APPLE  PUDDING  is  also  sometimes  made  in  a 
limilar  way. 

:  i  Note. — All  these  form  agreeable  varieties  ;  by  some  in- 
eed  they  are  preferred  to  the  usual  methods  of  making 
a » -toiled  fruit  puddings. 

RHUBARB  PUDDING.  The  green,  tender,  and 
cpW  irgest  part  of  the  leaf  stalks  of  rhubarb  are  used  for  this 
urpose.  After  being  well  cleansed  by  washing  and  sepa- 
ated  from  the  leaf,  they  must  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
lade  into  a  pudding,  precisely  in  the  same  way  as  directed 
pr  apple  pudding.  It  is  served  up  with  sugar  if  desired, 


258 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


without  it.  It  is  at  onci 


but  some  will  eat  this  puddin 
agreeable  and  wholesome. 

Note  that  three  kinds  of  rhubarb,  the  roots  of  whicl 
are  perennial,  are  cultivated,  namely,  the  Rheum  rhapon 
ticum,  or  common  rhubarb,  a  native  of  Asia,  and  lon^ 
known  in  this  country  ;  the  Rheum  hybridum,  or  Hybru  ; 
rhubarb,  introduced  in  1778;  and  the  Rheum  palmatum 
or  Chinese  rhubarb,  distinguished  from  the  others  by  it: 
elegant  palmate  leaves.  The  two  first  are  chiefly  employer , I 
for  puddings  and  pies  ;  the  Hybrid  rhubarb  is  said  to  be  the 
best.  The  Chinese  rhubarb  affords,  it  is  said,  the  root  s< 
well  known  as  a  medicine  in  the  shops,  and  is  sometime; 
dried  here  and  used  instead  of  the  foreign  article. 

PEASE  PUDDING  is  best  made  with  split  peas,  bu  , 
if  these  cannot  be  obtained,  whole  ones  must  be  used,  can 
being  taken  that  they  are,  in  either  case,  good  boilers  ant;i 
white ;  for  some  pease  boil  so  badly  that  scarcely  any  time 
however  lonsr,  will  make  them  tender.  Peas,  whethei  spli 
or  whole,  should  soak  in  water  for  many  hours  before  the.' 
are  set  to  boil.  They  should  be  tied  loosely  in  a  cloth  1  i 
split,  (but  if  whole  they  will  not  require  this  precaution  ii  , 
the  first  instance,)  and  be  boiled  till  they  are  so  soft  tha  J 
they  may  be  pulped  through  a  colander.  Some  mix  witl 
the  pulp  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  o  1 
two,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pudding,  which  should  h 
boiled  in  the  cloth,  after  being  pulped  and  tied  more  closely 

for  about  half  an  hour  more.  f 

Note,  that  the  time  for  boiling  peas  cannot  be  accuratel;  1 
set  down,  but  two  hours  at  least,  frequently  three  or  more 
will  be  necessary.  Some  will  add  to  the  pudding  butter  a 
well  as  the  eggs,  &c.  ;  we  think  that  it  is  better  not  to  ad< 
any  one  thing  to  it  before  it  is  served  up,  when  melted  but 
ter  may  be  poured  over  it ;  pepper  and  salt  may  be  adder 
to  it  at  the  pleasure  of  the  guest,  more  especially  as  thi 
pudding  is  usually  an  attendant  on  boiled  pork,  more  o 
less  salted.— And  note,  also,  that  this  pudding  in  its  plain 
est  state  is  by  far  the  most  wholesome.  If  the  split  pea 
boil  well,  passing  them  through  a  colander  might  be  an 
often  is  omitted. 

YEAST  DUMPLINGS.  Make  a  dough  with  flour 
water,  salt,  and  yeast,  the  same  as  for  bread ;  place  it  be 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


259 


i 


fore  the  fire  slightly  covered  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  so 
that  it  may  ferment ;  then  roll  the  dough  into  balls  about 
;  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  put  them  into  boiling  water,  in 

Po . 

Id 
In 

(it 


vhich  they  should  continue  for  about  ten  minutes,  and  they 
dll  be  done ;  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter,  wine,  and 


sugar. 


Note. — Some,  instead  of  water,  use  milk ;  but  we  fear 
n  every  way  in  which  these  dumplings  are  made,  without 
nuch  more  boiling  than  is  usually  given  to  them,  they  will 
>e  found  very  unsuitable  for  many  stomachs  ;  we  neither 
ike  hasty  pudding  nor  hasty  dumplings. 

BISCUIT  PUDDING.  To  three  Naples  biscuits, 
rated,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  hot  milk  or  cream  ;  cover  it 
lose,  and  when  cold  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the 
61  Whites  of  two,  all  well  beaten,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  some 
sa  randy,  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  sugar;  let  it 
oil  an  hour  ;  serve  it  up  with  sauce  made  of  melted  butter, 
vine,  and  sugar. 

NORFOLK  DUMPLINGS.  Make  half  a  pint  of 
lilk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  little  salt,  into  a  thick 
atter  with  flour ;  drop  them  into  boiling  water,  and  let 
lem  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Drain  them  and  serve 
em  up  with  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  stirred  among  them. 
Note. — This  is  another  of  those  hasty  dishes  which  we 
.nnot  approve. 

For  a  POTATO  PUDDING  boiled,  see,  forwards, 
otato  Pudding  baked. 

BLACK  PUDDING.  Take  one  pint  of  the  blood  of  a 
g,  fresh  obtained  from  the  animal,  and  stir  it  till  it  is 
ite  cold,  and  then  let  it  be  well  mixed  with  a  quarter  of 
peck  of  whole  grits  previously  boiled  in  water  for  half  an 
ur  ;  season  with  salt  and  with  what  other  condiments  you 
oose,  such  as  one  or  more  of  the  spices  and  sweet  herbs, 
t  we  recommend  none  of  them.  Take  now  some  of  the 
t  membrane  whence  the  lard  is  obtained,  (by  some  called 
e  leaf,  by  others  the  fleay  or  flick,)  cut  it  into  small 
ad  mix  them  with  the  grits,  &c.  Fill  as  many  of 
,  or  portions  of  them,  well  cleansed,  three  parts 
11  with  the  pudding  as  you  choose  ;  tie  both  ends  together 
d  boil  them  in  water  for  an  hour  or  more,  depending  upon 
ir  size.  A  hole  should  be  made  here  and  there  with 
e  fine  pointed  instrument  in  the  skin  of  each  pudding. 


260 


BOILED  PUDDINGS. 


in  order  to  permit  the  disengaged  gas  to  escape  during  the 
boiling1,  and  thus  to  prevent  its  bursting. 

Note. — Black  pudding  will  be  good  for  little  without 
considerable  admixture  of  the  fat.  If  properly  seasoned 
and  deposited  in  a  cool  dry  place  they  will  keep  good  for 
some  time ;  they  are  best,  and  we  believe  most  wholesome, 
when  broiled.  The  Scotch  employ  sometimes  the  blood  of 
a  goose  instead  of  that  of  a  pig.  Others  ag’ain  use  rice  and 
bread  crumbs  instead  of  grits,  and  chopped  beef  suet  in¬ 
stead  of  the  fat  of  the  pig;  others  again  will  add  to  these 
some  eggs  ;  but  we  believe  the  first  form  which  we  have 
given  is  every  way  the  preferable  one. 

A  WHITE  PUDDING  may  be  made  in  precisely  the 
same  way  as  black  pudding  by  merely  omitting  the  blood. 
For  another  kind  of  white  pudding  see  p.  251. 

A  BEEF-STEAK  PUDDING  is  made  with  the  sanr 
paste  as  apple  pudding,  which  see  above.  Cut  your  steak, 
of  the  thickness  mentioned  in  page  63,  or  somewhat 
thinner,  and  lay  them  in  a  bason  lined  with  paste,  placing 
small  slices  of  fat  between  each  steak  ;  or  you  may  omi 
the  fat  and  put,  instead,  minced  onion.  Season  them  witl 
what  you  choose ;  some  use  minced  onion  and  salt  only 
others  add,  besides,  blanched  oysters  and  sliced  potatoes 
the  first  method  is  the  simplest  and  the  best ;  cover  th 
steaks  with  paste  and  boil  them  for  two  or  more  hours. 

Note ,  some,  when  this  pudding  is  boiled  in  a  bason,  ad 
a  little  water  to  it;  but,  if  properly  made,  it  may  be  boile 
in  a  cloth  ;  care,  however,  must  be  taken  that  it  does  nc 
burst  during  the  boiling  and  thus  let  the  gravy  out.  Or  ;i 
may  he  made  by  lining  a  saucepan  with  paste  and  in  othe 
respects  treated  as  the  Mutton  Pudding  for  a  family 
below.  It  is  in  its  simplest  forms,  without  oysters  or  pots 
toes,  a  very  wholesome  dish. 

MUTTON  PUDDING  for  a  FAMILY  may  be  thus  pr< 
pared.  Take  an  iron  boiler,  or  a  large  saucepan,  or  stev 
pan,  the  cover  of  which  fits  tight,  and  line  the  inside  all  rour 
with  paste,  such  as  that  for  beaf  steak  pudding;  but  put  r 
paste  at  the  bottom ;  fill  the  vessel  with  mutton  c.ho] 
having  a  suitable  quantity  of  fat ;  season  with  salt  ar 
pepper  and  pour  into  it  a  quart  or  more  of  water  accordir 
to  the  size  of  your  pudding  ;  cover  the  whole  with  pas 
and  boil  it  for  three  or  more  hours ;  if  you  have  reason 


BAKED  PUDDINGS. 


261 


elieve  that  the  water  is  nearly  evaporated  towards  the  end 
f  the  process,  add  some  boiling  hot  through  an  opening 
lade  in  the  paste.  It  should  be  served  altogether  in  a  dish 
ith  the  gravy,  and  the  paste  cut  into  pieces. 

Note,  that  this  is  an  excellent  and  substantial  family 
ish  ;  it  is  called  in  some  of  our  rural  districts  crock-pie. 

PUDDINGS  of  other  animal  food,  aswell  as  of  Rabbits, 
poultry,  and  Game,  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to 
hat  of  beef  steaks  or  mutton  chops,  with  the  seasoning  usual 
p  each  dish.  Sometimes  those  who  desire  uncommon  and 
nwholesome  dishes  composed  of  different  animals,  will 
!aake  them  into  puddings,  with  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
ream  and  the  addition  of  yolks  of  eggs,  some  fat,  such  as 
jird  cut  into  pieces,  and  various  condiments;  but  these,  be 
I  remembered,  we  do  not  recommend. 

BAKED  PUDDINGS.  Attend  to  the  General  Observa- 
ions  concerning  puddings  at  the  commencement  of  this 
Shapter ;  and  more  especially  to  what  is  stated  about  wheat 
lour.  As  we  are  now  entering  more  immediately  upon  the 
egion  of  Baked  Pastry,  of  which  wheat-flour  is  often  a 
lonsiderable  ingredient,  the  cook  should  know  that  no 
aking  of  the  paste  formed  with  wheat-flour,  however  long 
ontinued,*  if  that  flour  has  not  undergone  previous  fermen¬ 
tation,  will  prevent  it  from  going  into  that  which  is  natural 
:o  it  when  moistened,  or  when  taken  into  the  stomach, 
for  this  reason  it  chiefly  is  that  baked  pastry  having  un- 
'ermented  flour  in  it  disagrees  with  so  many  persons.  This 
s  not,  however,  all ;  for  if  eggs,  cream,  and  other  indi¬ 
gestible  as  well  as  fermentable  substances  be  added  to  the 
mdding,  such  as  raisins,  candied  lemon,  orange,  citron, 
vc.  the  mischief  arising  from  the  mixture  to  those  who 
iave  weak  and  dyspeptic  stomachs  will  be  incalculably  great, 
the  puddings  for  which  baking  is  best  suited  are  those  of 
Rice,  Bread,  Sago,  Millet,  Bread  and  Butter,  fyc.  It 
houldbe  noted  toothatthe  great  heat  to  which  puddings  are 
iften  subjected  in  the  baking,  where  any  of  the  animal  fats 
such  as  suet,  lard,  butter,  or  even  cream)  are  employed 

*  This  mus!  be  understood  witli  the  proviso  (see  th eGeneralObser- 
■ations  on  Pies)  that  the  paste  does  not  undergo  some  fermenta- 
jion  during  the  process  of  baking  ;  or,  that  the  flour  is  not  wholly 
ijecomposed  by  the  heat  employed  :  for  it  is  possible,  by  long  con- 
inued  and  intense  heat,  to  reduce  the  flour  to  charcoal. 


262 


BAKED  PUDDINGS. 


in  them,  will  often  convert  the  fat  into  a  state  of  acridity, 
or  rather,  perhaps,  acidity,  which  is  peculiarly  offensive  tc 
a  great  many  stomachs.  It  is  true  that  the  healthy  and 
robust  may,  and  often  do,  partake  of  such  food  with  impu¬ 
nity,  but  the  more  delicate  ought  not  to  touch  it ;  and 
hence  the  great  care  required  in  the  process  of  baking , 
so  that  only  so  much  heat  and  no  more  be  administered  than 
is  necessary  to  fulfil  the  conditions  here  laid  down ;  too 
much  heat  will  be,  consequently,  as  injurious  to  a  pudding 
as  too  little  ;  both  extremes  must  be  avoided. 

BATH  PUDDING.  Let  six  eggs,  leaving  out  the 
whites  of  four,  be  well  beaten  with  a  little  salt,  to  which 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  the  same  quantity 
of  brandy,  three  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  four  table-spoonsful 
of  flour,  and  a  pint  of  cream;  let  the  whole  be  wrell  beaten; 
butter  some  small  cups,  and  fill  them  ;  half  an  hour  will 
bake  them.  Serve  with  wine  sauce. — Y. 

AMBER  PUDDING.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  six  ounces 
of  lump  sugar,  finely  powdered,  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  , 
butter,  to  which  add  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  as  much  fresh  candied  orange  peel  as  will  give  it  colour 
and  flavour;  line  the  dish  with  paste  and  bake  it  in  a  slow 
oven. — Y. 

POTATOE  PUDDING.  Beat  half  a  pound  of  pota¬ 
toes,  when  boiled,  into  a  smooth  paste,  with  six  ounces  of 
butter,  and  half  a  pound  of  powdered  lump  sugar,  to  which 
add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  the  outside  rind  of 
one  lemon  well  minced,  the  juice  of  two,  and  one  glass  of 
white  wine;  all  being  well  mixed  together,  line  the  dish 
with  good  paste,  and  bake  it  an  hour.  —  Y. 

RICE  PUDDING.  Boil  four  ounces  of  rice  in  water 
till  it  is  tender,  strain  off  the  water,  and  add  to  the  rice  a 
little  grated  lemon  peel,  some  powdered  cinnamon,  or,  in 
its  stead,  a  drop  of  oil  of  cinnamon  on  a  lump  of  sugar, 
which  mix  with  more  sugar  to  the  taste  which  you  desire, 
six  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  pint  of 
good  milk  and  two  ounces  of  butter;  when  the  whole  is 
well  mixed  put  it  into  a  baking  dish  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 

It  will  not  require  more  than,  if  so  much  as,  an  hour  to  be 
baked. 

Note,  you  may  add  currants  at  your  pleasure  to  this 


BAKED  PUDDINGS. 


263 


ish ;  some  use  cream  instead  of  milk,  and  others  use 
round  Rice ;  when  this  last  is  employed  a  puff  paste  is 
ometimes  laid  around  the  dish. 

A  MILLET  PUDDING  is  made  in  the  same  way  as 
le  preceding. 

FOR  VARIOUS  OTHER  BAKED  PUDDINGS, 
e  Sago  Pudding,  page  255 ;  A  Batter  Pudding,  page 
51;  Plum  Pudding,  page  252;  Hunting  Pudding,  page 
53;  Suet  Pudding,  page  254;  and  Bread  Pudding, 
age  250. 

A  VERMICELLI  PUDDING  is  made  by  boiling  four 
unces  of  vermicelli  in  a  pint  of  milk  till  it  is  soft,  to  which 
"e  added  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  powdered  cinnamon, 
>ur  ounces  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four 
?gs  well  beaten.  Bake  it  for  an  hour. 

Note,  without  care,  in  boiling  vermicelli  in  milk,  it  will 
3  burnt,  and  consequently  spoiled. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.  Lay  slices  of 
^ead  and  butter  over  the  bottom  of  your  baking  dish; 
rew  over  them  currants  in  any  quantity  you  please;  beat 
three  or  four  eggs  and  mix  them  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
which  add  some  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel,  and  one 
op  of  oil  of  cinnamon  on  a  lump  of  sugar.  When  the 
hole  is  well  mixed  pour  it  into  the  dish  upon  the  currants 
id  bread  and  butter.  About  half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 
Note,  if  you  desire  a  richer  pudding  you  may  add  candied 
mon,  orange,  or  citron,  well  minced,  to  it.  Some  will  use 
•earn  instead  of  milk;  but  our  first  directions  are  by  far 
ie  most  wholesome. 

A  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING.  Mix  four  spoonsful  of 
)ur  with  four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  and  three 
nts  of  milk.  Butter  a  dripping  pan  and  set  it  under  beef, 
utton,  or  veal,  when  roasting,  so  that  the  fat  and  gravy 
ay  drip  on  it.  When  the  pudding  is  brown  at  the  top, 
it  it  into  squares  and  turn  them  over;  when  the  under 
des  are  well  browned  they  will  be  done. 

Note,  this  is,  undoubtedly,  a  nutritious  pudding;  but 
e  dyspeptic  and  those  whose  stomachs  are  not  in  a  good 
ate  should  avoid  it. 

This  pudding  will  be  much  more  wholesome  if  it  be  first 


0 

■ 


264 


BAKED  PUDDINGS. 


ink 


boiled  for  an  hour  in  a  bason,  then  turned  out,  cut 
slices,  and  laid  under  the  meat  as  above  directed. 

ORANGE  PUDDING.  Pour  upon  one  pound  o 
Naples  biscuits  a  quart  of  boiling  hot  milk  or  cream;  whei 
cold,  add  to  the  mixture  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  the  out 
side  peel  finely  grated  of  two  or  more  Seville  oranges, 
little  powdered  cinnamon,  or,  in  its  stead,  a  drop  of  th< 
essential  oil  on  a  lump  of  sugar,  to  which  other  sugar  it 
powder  must  be  added  to  make  it  as  sweet  as  may  be  de 
sired.  Let  the  whole  be  well  mixed  and  put  into  a  disl 
which  must  be  edged  with  puff  paste,  with  strings  of  whicl 
the  top  of  the  pudding*  should  also  be  ornamented.  Abou 
half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  to  bake  it. 


: 


A  LEMON  PUDDING  is  made  precisely  in  the  sam 
way  as  orange  pudding  by  omitting  the  grated  orange  pee 
and  adding  grated  lemon  peel  in  its  stead. 

MARROW  PUDDING  may  be  made  in  various  ways 
the  following  is,  we  believe,  the  best.  Pour  upon  half ; 
pound  of  Naples  biscuits  and  half  a  pound  of  beef  marrow 
well  washed,  freed  from  its  membranes,  and  finely  minced 
a  quart  of  boiling  hot  milk;  when  cold,  add  some  currants 
grated  nutmeg,  lemon  peel,  a  table  spoonful  of  brandy  i 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  four  eggs  with  both  whites  ani 
yolks,  all  well  beaten;  let  the  rvhole  be  mixed  well  togethe 
and  put  into  your  dish  with  puff  paste  around  it.  Abou 
half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  to  bake  it. 

Note,  some  will  add  candied  lemon,  orange,  or  citron  t< 
the  dish,  as  well  as  powdered  cinnamon  or  its  oil,  orange 
flower  water  and  blanched  almonds ;  others  again  add  flou 
to  the  mixture;  we  recommend  none  of  these. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING.  Add  to  eight  eggs  wel 


beaten  and  put  into  a  stew-pan  half  a  pound  each  of  buttei 
and  lump  sugar  finely  powdered  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg 
Let  it  be  stirred  over  the  fire  till  the  mixture  becomes  some 
what  thick ;  when  it  is  cool  put  it  into  your  dish  with  puf 
paste  around  it.  Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 

QUINCE  PUDDING.  To  two  parts  of  the  pulp  o 
ripe  quinces  add  one  part  of  powdered  lump  sugar,  a  littli 
cinnamon  in  powder,  or  its  oil,  and  a  little  powdered  ginger 
mix  the  whole  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  (in  number  propor 


PIES. 


265 


tioned  to  the  size  of  your  pudding)  well  beaten,  and  with 
cream  the  same  quantity  in  weight  as  the  pulp  of  the  quinces. 
Bake  it  for  half  an  hour  or  a  little  more. 

Note ,  some  will  add  a  little  flour  to  the  above,  when  it 
will  require  more  baking  and  be,  besides,  made  more  un¬ 
wholesome. 

APRICOTS,  PLUMS,  &c.  may  be  made  into  a  baked 
pudding  in  the  same  way  as  quinces;  but  we  recommend 
none  of  these  unnecessary  dishes. 

PIES. — General  Observations.  As  we  are  now  arrived 
at  the  metropolis  of  pastry,  a  few  words  more  on  that 
much  used  article  of  food  will  be  here  permitted  us.  In 
order  to  avoid  useless  repetition  we  must  again  refer  to  what 
has  been  said  in  the  preceding  sections  on  puddings  as  well 
as  to  our  chapter  on  vegetables ,  and  particularly  in  that, 
to  what  is  said  concerning  ivheat,  starch ,  and  gluten. 
a;  Wheat  flour,  as  we  have  shown,  enters  very  readily,  when 
moistened  with  any  aqueous  liquid,  into  a  fermentation 
Tlihvhich  some  persons  have  called  the  panary ,  under  the 
impression  that  it  is  peculiar  to  the  process  by  which  bread 
afi  is  made;  but,  by  the  most  accurate  observation,  the  real 
me  ingredients  in  that  fermentation  appear  to  be  chiefly,  if  not 
^entirely,  the  sugar  which  all  wheat  flour  more  or  less  con- 
eiij  tains,  and  the  gluten;  in  fact,  that  the  fermentation  is  a 
vinous  one  and  governed  by  similar  laws  to  other  vinous 
fermentation;  a  proof  of  which  is  that  a  spirit  is  now  ob¬ 
tained  by  a  peculiar  process  lately  adopted  in  the  baking  of 
iaj'  (bread.  We  have  seen,  too,  that  the  animal  oils,  such  as 
butter,  lard,  and  suet,  when  mixed  in  suitable  proportions 
vith  -wheat  flour,  render  it  much  better  adapted  for  assimila¬ 
tion  with  the  fluids  of  the  stomach,  and,  consequently,  in 
’ommon  language,  more  easily  digestible. 

Mankind  have  long  since  become  acquainted  with  these 
facts,  and  hence  the  directions  for  the  making  of  paste  in 
dl  our  cookery  books.  But  although  the  facts  have  been 
ong  known,  the  principles  by  which  those  facts  are  regu- 
ated  remain  even  now  in  some  obscurity;  yet  it  is  tolerably 
Evident,  at  least  to  accurate  observers,  and  to  all  dyspeptic 
oersons  in  particular,  that  baked  pastry  does  not  agree  so 
veil  with  the  stomach  as  that  which  is  well  boiled :  the 
•eason  we  apprehend  to  be  that  in  boiling  pastry  the  sugar 


266 


PIES. 


of  the  flour  is  abstracted  or  decomposed,  while  in  baking  it 
the  sugar  remains  in  it  and  is  ever  ready,  when  mixed  with 
the  fluids  of  the  stomach,  to  g’O  into  fermentation  and  thus 
to  produce  considerable  pain  and  inconvenience.  With  the 
more  heavy  pastes  this  is  almost  invariably  the  case,  except 
in  stomachs  of  peculiar  strength;  but  the  lighter  pastes,  or 
puff  Pas^es  as  they  are  called,  are  much  better  in  this  I 
respect;  indeed,  we  are  disposed  to  think  that  the  fermen¬ 
tation  to  which  we  have  alluded  is  in  part  produced  during 
the  process  of  baking  in  this  paste,  and,  consequently,  that  ; 
what  is  called  puff  paste,  provided  it  be  not  burnt  in  the  ; 
baking,  is  far  more  wholesome,  which  it  is  known  to  be,  j 
than  the  heavier  pastes.  But  here  it  is  also  necessary  to 
note,  what  has  been  before  alluded  to,  that  pastry  having 
any  of  the  animal  oils  mixed  with  it,  if  highly  baked  so  as 
to  approach  burning,  becomes  very  unwholesome  by  the 
acidity  which  is  thus  produced  in  it;  and  hence,  as  we  have  , 
stated  under  baked  puddings,  the  great  care  required  in 
the  process  of  baking  pies,  so  that  only  so  much  and  no 
more  heat  be  administered  than  is  necessary:  too  much  heat 
will  be  as  injurious  to  a  pie  as  too  little;  both  extremes  must 
be  avoided. 

One  general  observation  more.  It  will  be  found  that  the 
pies  which  are  most  wholesome  and  which  agree  best  with 
the  stomach  are  those  which  contain  some  animal  food  such 
as  beef  or  mutton;  that  of  fruit  pies  the  more  acid  are  the 
best;  and  that  it  is  better  to  add  sugar  to  them  after  they 
are  baked  to  make  them  palatable  than  to  choose  other 
fruits  which  are  sweeter  and  therefore  require  little  or  no  ; 
sugar.  This  arises,  we  believe,  from  the  simple  fact  that  j 
acid  fruits  go  sooner  out  of  the  stomach  and  relax  the  j 
bowels;  acid  apples  and  plums  are  peculiarly  valuable  in 
this  respect. 

In  making  pies,  be  particularly  careful  that  your  butter  I 
or  other  fat  is  perfectly  sweet  and  good;  and  that  your  flour 
is  sweet;  it  will  be  also,  besides,  useful  before  using  it  to 
pass  it  through  a  coarse  sieve,  as,  thus,  any  clots  or  other 
impurities  may  be  readily  removed. 

In  London,  where  a  considerable  portion  of  the  pastry  is 
baked  by  the  baker,  less  attention  is  necessary  to  be  paid 
to  the  regulation  of  the  oven  (see  the  Introduction 


PASTE  FOR  PIES. 


267 


something 


article  Oven)  by  the  family  cook;  but,  in  the  countrv,  it 
will  be  of  the  first  importance  in  domestic  economy  to 
understand  well  the  management  of  it.  In  London  the 
ovens  are  now  usually  heated  by  the  combustion  of  coal, 
but  in  the  country  where  wood  can  be  obtained,  that  article 
is  greatly  to  be  preferred  for  such  purposes.  The  cook, 
therefore,  ought  to  know  that  light  paste  requires  an  oven 
moderately  heated;  that  raised  pies  (see  below)  require  a 
quick  oven  to  prevent  the  paste  from  falling;  and  that  tarts 
which  are  iced  should  have  a  slow  oven;  still 
must  depend  upon  the  discretion  of  the  cook. 

PUFF  PASTE.  Mix  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  with 
three  pounds  of  flour  by  rubbing  them  both  well  together; 
make  them  into  a  paste  with  water  enough  to  make  it  mo¬ 
derately  stiff.  Roll  it  out  thin  and  lay  bits  of  butter  all 
til  over  it;  sprinkle  on  a  little  flour,  double  the  paste  up  and 
al  roll  it  out  again;  repeat  the  operation  several  times  and  add 
butter  till  you  have  worked  in  another  pound  of  it  in  addi¬ 
ct  tion  to  the  pound  which  you  have  first  mixed  with  the  flour; 
ikI  set  it  by  for  an  hour  and  it  will  be  fit  for  any  use  for 
[Mjj  which  you  may  want  it. 

JNote,  some  employ  equal  weights  of  butter  and  flour; 

and  some  add  to  it  an  egg  or  two  well  beaten  and  a  little 
mil; gait;  and  some,  after  mixing  the  butter  and  flour  into  a 
oaste,  let  it  remain  for  some  time  before  adding  the  other 
oound  of  butter. 

A  PASTE  FOR  PIES  GENERALLY.  Mix  three 
minds  of  flour  with  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  little  salt, 
y  rubbing  them  well  together,  then  make  them  into  a 
aste  with  water  and  roll  it  out  so  as  to  be  uniformly 
mooth. 

Note,  some  add  to  the  above  one  egg  well  beaten ;  others 
ix  in  double  the  quantity  of  butter ;  others,  besides  the 
utter,  add  four  ounces  of  finely  minced  suet,  and  the  same 
uantity  of  lard ;  others  employ  salt  butter  well  washed  ; 
thers  use  one  pound  of  butter,  or  other  fat,  to  twro  pounds 
f  flour.  From  these  the  cook  may  select  which  she  pleases 
r  her  pie.  Perhaps  the  best  proportion  will  be  one  poun7 
f  butter  or  other  fat  to  two  pounds  of  flour ;  or  equal  parts 
f  butter  and  suet.  But  there  is,  in  truth,  no  end  to  these 

n  2 


RAISED  PIES. 


268 

varieties  in  the  ingredients  for  paste.  See  Apple  Pudding, 
page  256. 

PASTE  FOR  TARTS.  A  pound  of  fine  flour  and  one 
ounce  of  powdered  lump  sugar  must  be  made  into  a  paste 
with  four  ounces  of  cream  made  boiling  hot  and  three  ounces 
of  butter.  It  must  be  well  worked  together  and  rolled  out 
thin. 

Or,  the  cream  may  be  omitted  and  the  same  quantity 
of  butter  employed  in  its  stead. 

Or,  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
one  or  more  eggs  well  beaten,  and  two  ounces  of  powdered 
lump  sugar,  may  be  made  into  a  paste  with  milk,  of  which 
six  ounces  may,  possibly,  be  enough. 

This  last  may  serve  as  a  PASTE  FOR  CUSTARDS; 
but  for  this  some  employ  cream  instead  of  the  milk,  which 
is  perhaps  the  best ;  but  we  are  no  great  advocates  for  the 
employment  of  cream  in  pastry  in  any  way. 

THE  PASTE  FOR  RAISED  PIES,  that  is,  pies 
which  are  made  and  baked  without  the  intervention  of  a 
dish,  should  be  made  stiff.  It  may  be  made  of  similar  in¬ 
gredients  to  those  directed  above  for  pies  generally ;  but 
some  direct  it  to  be  made  with  lard  or  good  dripping  instead 
of  butter,  the  lard  being  melted  in  hot  water  sufficient  for 
the  paste,  which  is  to  be  made  by  pouring  the  water  and 
the  lard  into  a  hole  made  in  the  middle  of  the  flour  and  then 
worked  together  with  the  hand  without  any  rolling,  and 
afterwards  formed  into  the  shape  which  is  desired. 

RAISED  PIES  may  be  made  with  any  of  the  articles 
with  which  other  pies  are  made ;  but  they  are  more  com¬ 
monly  confined  to  those  made  of  some  animal  food ;  the 
liquid,  if  any,  should  not  be  put  into  them  till  they  are 
about  to  be  put  into  the  oven. 

Note,  of  Raised  Pies  this  general  remark  may  be  made, 
that  as  the  whole  surface  of  the  pie  is  exposed  to  the  imme¬ 
diate  heat  of  the  oven,  the  paste  is  generally  rendered  more 
unfit  for  the  digestive  functions,  and,  therefore,  improper 
for  the  dyspeptic :  it  will  be  always  found  that  in  well  baked 
pies  the  most  wholesome  part  of  the  crust  is  that  which  lines 
the  inside  of  the  dish,  and  which  has  not,  therefore,  been 
exposed  to  so  much  heat. 


MEAT  PIES. 


269 

BEEF  STEAK  PIE.  Line  your  dish  with  paste,  and 
have  ready  some  steaks  cut  from  the  rump  or  any  other 
part  that  is  tender,  rather  thinner  than  for  broiling1 ;  after 
peppering  and  salting,  fill  the  dish  with  them,  and  pour  into 
it  water  sufficient  to  fill  it  rather  more  than  half  full.  Lay 
on  the  upper  crust,  and  bake  it  for  two  or  more  hours. 

Note,  this  is,  perhaps,  the  most  wholesome  of  all  baked 
pies.  Some  will  add  to  it  walnut  or  other  catchup ;  others 
chopped  shalot  or  onion ;  others  oysters ;  some  will  lay 
slices  of  fat  between  each  steak ;  some  will  add  red  wine 
and  good  gravy  to  this  pie ;  but  our  first  directions  are  the 
best. 

MUTTON  PIE.  Cut  a  loin  of  mutton,  which  has  hung 
a  few  days,  without  the  inside  fat,  into  thin  chops  ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  line  your  dish  with  a  thin  paste ;  (see 
Paste  for  Pies  generally ; )  fill  it  with  the  chops,  and 
pour  into  it  water  sufficient  to  fill  it  half  full,  or  more.  Put 
?n  the  outside  crust  and  bake  it ;  if  of  a  moderate  size,  two 
hours. 

Note,  some  add  to  this  pie  mushroom  catchup,  chopped 
onions,  and  slices  of  peeled  potatoes ;  you  may  employ  a 
neck  of  mutton,  cut  into  chops,  instead  of  the  loin. 

Some,  when  the  pie  is  baked,  pour  all  the  gravy  out  of  it, 
and  let  it  stand  a  little  while,  then  skim  off  the  fat  and  pour 
the  gravy  made  boiling  hot  into  the  pie,  and  thus  serve  it  up. 

A  VEAL  PIE  may  be  made  like  a  mutton  pie,  with 
either  a  loin  or  neck  of  veal,  cut  into  thin  chops,  and  sea¬ 
soned  with  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  or  other  condiments  ;  or  a 
parboiled  brisket,  cut  into  pieces,  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
loin  or  neck. 

Note,  that  the  chief  part  of  the  fat  should  be  separated 
from  the  loin.  Some  will  add  slices  of  ham,  pork,  sausage- 
meat,  or  veal-stuffing,  to  this  pie,  either  of  which  will  make 
the  veal  more  savoury. 

A  PORK  PIE  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  and  with 
U  Isimilar  joints  to  the  preceding ,  but  it  must  be  seasoned 
with  condiments  suitable  to  pork,  as  sage,  onions,  &c. ;  it 
Will  be  also  much  improved  if  some  slices  of  good  boiling 
kpples  be  laid  between  the  slices  of  pork ;  some,  too,  will 
add  a  little  sugar.  The  fat  may  be  taken  from  the  gravy  in 
he  same  manner  as  that  directed  for  mutton. 


270 


MEAT  PIES. 


LAMB  PIE  is  made  similarly  to  that  of  veal;  indeed, 
meat  pies  of  any  kind  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to  the 
preceding,  varying  the  condiments  according  to  the  kinds  of 
meat  employed. 

VENISON  PIE  or  PASTY  is  decidedly  a  dish  for  the 
epicurean ;  it  is  made  in  various  w'ays ;  were  we  to  direct  it 
to  be  made  of  slices  of  venison  cut  from  any  part  that  is 
become  tender,  by  having  hung  for  some  days  after  it  is 
killed,  and  made  into  a  pie  in  a  similar  w?ay  to  beef-steak 
pie,  with  suitable  condiments,  the  objects  of  wholesome 
cookery  would  be  answered  ;  but  we  must  not  let  this  dish 
off  so  simply.  The  following  is  an  old-fashioned  method. 

Bone  a  breast  or  neck  of  venison,  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  it  into  a  pan,  with  the  best  part  of  a  neck 
of  mutton  sliced  and  laid  over  it ;  pour  on  it  a  glass  of  red 
wine ;  lay  a  coarse  paste  over  the  w'hole  and  bake  it  for  two 
hours ;  take  out  the  venison  and  lay  it  in  your  dish,  pour 
the  gravy  over  it,  and  put  also  over  it  one  pound  of  butter ; 
make  a  good  puff  paste  and  lay  it  about  half  an  inch  thick 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish;  roll  out  the  lid,  which  should 
be  a  little  thicker  than  the  paste  on  the  edge,  and  lay  it  on ; 
then  roll  out  another  lid,  but  thinner  than  the  other,  which 
must  be  cut  into  flower  leaves,  or  into  what  other  form  you 
may  choose  ;  lay  this  lid  upon  the  other ;  it  will  require 
two  or  more  hours  to  be  baked. 

Note,  this  pie,  if  kept  in  the  dish  in  which  it  has  been 
baked  with  the  crust  on  it,  will  remain  good  for  many  days. 
Note  also,  that  our  modern  cooks  stew  the  venison  with  good 
gravy,  or  broth,  and  many  condiments,  such  as  port  wine, 
onions,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  &c.,  instead  of  previously  baking 
it  as  above  directed,  till  it  is  three  parts  done,  and  then  make 
it  into  a  pie  and  bake  it.  This  pie  is  usually  served  up  hot, 
having  a  gravy  made  with  the  bones  and  other  parts  of  the 
venison  not  in  the  pasty,  port  wine,  cayenne  pepper,  &c. 
poured  into  it.  The  first  pasty  is  designed  to  be  eaten  cold. 

SQUAB  PIE  is  a  west-country  dish  and  is  there  by 
many  much  esteemed,  but  it  wall  require  a  good  stomach  to 
digest  it.  It  is  made  with  good  plain  paste  and  mutton- 
chops,  apples,  pared  and  cut  into  pieces,  and  onions  sliced; 
usually  about  equal  quantities  of  the  three  ingredients  are 
employed,  with  some  pepper  and  salt ;  water  must  be  put 


GAME  AND  BIRD  PIES. 


271 

into  the  dish,  but  not  so  much  as  for  mutton  or  beef-steak 
pie  :  a  pie  of  a  moderate  size  will  require  two  or  more  hours 
to  be  baked. 

A  HARE  or  RABBIT  PIE  may  be  made  by  first  cut¬ 
ting  the  animal  up  as  it  is  carved  when  roasted  or  boiled, 
and  then  stewing  it  in  a  jug,  placed  in  a  water-bath,  with 
i  condiments,  &c.  adapted  to  each,  (for  which  see  pages  9, 
i  47,  48,  and  103,)  till  they  are  about  three-fourths  done; 
when  the  whole,  being  placed  in  a  dish  lined  with  paste  and 
covered  with  the  same,  must  be  baked  till  it  is  done  :  a  large 
pie  will  require  two  hours  :  we  do  not,  however,  much  ad¬ 
mire  such  dishes  ;  a  jugged  hare  is  much  better,  see  page 
104. 

POULTRY  and  other  BIRD  PIES  may  be  made  simi¬ 
larly  to  meat  pies,  varying  the  seasoning  with  the  bird  or 
birds  employed ;  all  of  which,  if  large,  as  a  turkey  or 
goose ,  must  be  either  cut  into  quarters  or  boned ,  and  then 
be  suitably  seasoned,  with  the  addition  of  some  butter,  to 
which  many  will  add  a  little  broth  or  gravy.  The  paste 
may  be  the  same  as  for  meat  pies,  but  you  may  use  puff 
paste  if  you  please  for  the  more  delicate  birds. 

Note  that  some  slices  of  beef  put  into  a  Goose  Pie  will 
make  it  more  wholesome;  seepage  143.  A  Duck  Pie 
will  also  be  improved  by  a  few  slices  of  beef  being  placed 
at  the  bottom  of  it. 

A  GIBLET  PIE.  Two  sets  of  goose  giblets,  being 
well  cleansed,  the  wings  and  necks  divided  into  two,  and 
the  gizzards  cut  in  two  or  more  pieces,  must  be  stewed, 
except  the  livers,  in  two  quarts  of  water,  with  a  few  whole 
pepper-corns,  a  little  mace,  some  sweet  herbs,  and  a  large 
onion  sliced,  till  they  are  tender.  Line  a  dish  with  good 
paste  and  lay  at  the  bottom  a  rump  steak,  on  which  place 
:  the  stewed  giblets  and  the  livers ;  strain  the  liquor  in  w  hich 
the  giblets  were  stewed  into  your  pie,  which  season  with 
salt,  lay  on  the  upper  crust  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  PIGEON  PIE  is  made  in  various  ways  ;  the  most 
usual  is,  after  the  pigeons  are  well  cleansed,  to  put  6ome 
butter,  and  pepper,  and  salt  into  their  bellies,  then  line  the 
dish  with  puff  paste,  and  lay  in  the  pigeons,  putting  be¬ 
tween  them  the  gizzards,  pinions,  &c.  with  a  yolk  or  two 
of  an  egs:  boiled  hard  and  a  slice  or  two  of  beef ;  or  you 


272 


PATTIES. 


may  place  a  beef  steak  in  the  bottom  of  your  dish ;  add 
water  sufficient  to  nearly  fill  the  dish.  The  time  of  baking 
will  depend  upon  its  size  ;  a  small  pie  may  require  an  hour 
at  least ;  a  larger  one  an  hour  and  a  half  or  more. 

A  pigeon  pie  is  sometimes  made  with  the  pigeons  being 
previously  braised ,  (see  pages  156  and  168,)  afterwards 
stewed,  and  then  baked  with  suitable  condiments. 

PATTIES  are  small  pies,  (pdte,)  and,  therefore,  the 
term  may  be  and  is  applied  occasionally  to  any  small  pie, 
but  it  is  more  commonly  used  for  small  pies  composed  of 
paste  and  some  kind  of  minced  meat,  fowl,  fish,  &c.  as 
beef,  veal,  turkey,  oysters,  lobsters,  &c.*  We  are  in¬ 
debted  for  the  following  to  Mrs.  Rundell’s  Cookery  : — 

“  FRIED  PATTIES.  Mince  a  bit  of  cold  veal  and  six 
oysters  mixed  with  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  lemon  peel — add  the  liquor 
to  the  oysters ;  warm  all  in  a  tosser,  but  do  not  boil ;  let  it 
go  cold ;  have  ready  a  good  puff  paste,  roll  thin,  and  cut 
in  round  or  square  bits  ;  put  some  of  the  above  between  two 
of  them,  twist  the  edges  to  keep  in  the  gravy,  and  fry 
them  of  a  fine  brown.” 

Note  that  these  patties  may  be  baked.  In  a  similar  way 
may  be  also  made  various  other  patties  ;  beef  or  mutton 
minced,  with  suitable  seasoning,  omitting  the  oysters,  will 
make  much  more  wholesome  patties  than  the  above. 

FINE  PATTIES  are  usually  made  by  mincing  equal 
parts  of  either  turkey,  lamb,  or  chicken,  and  of  the  fat  of 
lamb,  veal,  or  that  from  a  loin  of  beef,  with  a  little  parsley, 
thyme,  and  grated  lemon-peel ;  after  which,  some  pound 
the  whole  in  a  mortar  into  a  fine  paste,  seasoning  wfith  salt 
and  pepper ;  this  is  then  put  into  square  or  other  formed 
sheets  of  puff  paste,  rolled  out  thin,  closed  round,  and 
baked  for  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
they  are  taken  from  the  oven  a  little  white  gravy,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  shalot,  must  be  poured  into  each 
through  a  hole  made  in  the  top. 

Note  that  these,  as  well  as  other  patties,  are  occasionally 
ornamented  with  paste  in  various  ways,  which  the  inge¬ 
nuity  of  the  cook  will  readily  suggest. 

*  The  term  patties  is  applied  sometimes  to  the  pans  in  which  the 
patties  are  baked. 


1FISH  PIES.  273 

Note,  also,  that  it  is  usual  to  wash  over  all  patties  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  before  putting  them  into  the  oven. 

And  note  again  that  all  patties  may  he  either  baked  in 
their  paste  without  the  intervention  of  a  pan,  having  a  piece 
of  paper  under  each  ;  or  they  may  be  baked  in  tin  or 
earthenware  pans  of  various  forms,  according  to  the  fancy 
of  the  cook  :  those  baked  in  pans  will  be  generally  the  most 
wholesome,  because  the  paste  will  not  be  immediately  ex¬ 
posed  to  so  much  heat. 

Observation. — Dr.  Kitchiner  says  that  “  putting- 
meat  or  poultry  into  a  pie  is  certainly  the  veiy  worst  way 
of  cooking  it.”  In  this  we  do  not  exactly  agree  :  for  it 
will  be  generally  found  that  meat  and  poultry  pies,  when 
properly  baked,  are  by  far  more  wholesome  and  agree 
better  with  most  stomachs  than  pies  made  of  either  fruit  or 
fish :  all  the  nutritive  properties  of  the  meat  are  thus  re¬ 
tained  ;  mutton  and  beef-steak  pies  in  particular  form  a 
nutritive  and  stimulant  dish  by  no  means  to  be  despised  : 
but  pastry  too  much  baked,  as  we  have  said  above,  must 
be  carefully  avoided. 

Of  FISH  PIES  we  are  reluctant  to  speak,  believing  as 
we  do  that  net  one  of  the  tribe  of  fishes  is  calculated  to 
make  a  dish  to  be  at  all  desired  when  compared  with  fish 
prepared  in  other  ways.  Some,  nevertheless,  will  have  an 
EEL  PIE,  which  may  be  thus  made  : — -your  eels  being- 
cleansed  and  skinned,  or  not,  as  you  may  choose,  cut  them 
into  pieces  of  about  two  inches  in  length  and  braise  them 
for  a  few  minutes  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  shalots,  grated  nutmeg,  and  some 
lemon-juice ;  then  put  a  little  forcemeat  at  the  bottom  of 
a  deep  dish,  on  which  place  the  eels,  and  cover  them  with 
puff  paste  ;  when  they  are  baked  pour  into  the  pie  some 
good  gravy. 

In  a  similar  way  a  pie  may  be  made  with  Turbot,  Sole, 
Flounder,  Carp,  Salmon,  &c.  &c.  varying  the  sea¬ 
soning  to  suit  the  fish.  The  turbot  should  be  first  par¬ 
boiled,  or  cut  into  pieces  and  braised  for  a  few  minutes  ; 
the  same  may  be  done  with  all  the  other  fishes.  But  her¬ 
rings  and  sprats  will  require  no  such  previous  braising ; 
lobsters  must  be  boiled  first  as  for  eating.  To  some  of  these 
pies  many  will  add  eels,  boiled  or  braised,  and  minced  line, 

n  3 


274 


FRUIT  PIES. 


as  a  sort  of  forcemeat ;  to  salmon  a  lobster  forcemeat  is 
usually  added.  But,  be  it  again  remembered,  we  advise 
none  of  these  dishes.  A  word  or  two  concerning 

OYSTER  PIES,  and  we  have  done.  It  is  said  that 
ozmazome  has  been  discovered  in  oysters,*  and  hence  it 
has  been  presumed  that  oysters  are  the  most  wholesome  of 
the  fish  tribe ;  but,  whatever  may  be  this  fact  in  regard  to 
oysters,  it  is,  beyond  question,  true  that  oysters  suit  best 
the  stomach  when  they  undergo  the  slightest  possible  boil¬ 
ing;  and  that  long  boiling,  or  baking  them  in  a  paste  in 
which  it  will  be  necessary  to  expose  them  for  a  considerable 
time,  even  in  patties,  to  the  heat  of  an  oven,  must  render 
them  more  or  less  unfit  for  the  stomach.  If,  however, 
you  desire  oyster  patties  or  pies,  they  will  be  assuredly 
most  wholesome  when  combined  with  good  beef  gravy;  but 
they  are,  however,  more  commonly  made  by  beating  them 
up  with  the  flesh  of  a  braised  eel  into  a  paste  with  condi¬ 
ments  ;  the  pies  have  commonly  in  them,  besides  the  oys¬ 
ters,  some  parboiled  sweetbreads  cut  into  pieces.  Cream 
and  white  gravy  are  usually  poured  into  the  pie  before  it  is 
served  up :  a  pretty  dyspeptic  mess  ! 

FRUIT  PIES.  After  what  has  been  said  concerning 
paste  and  pies  generally,  little  will  be  required  to  enable  the 
cook  to  make  fruit  pies  of  any  kind ;  but  it  should  be, 
nevertheless,  remembered  that  acid  fruits  will  generally 
make  better  pies  (that  is,  they  will  bake  better,  become 
more  soft  and  pulpy,  and  are  more  wholesome)  than  those 
which  may  be  much  sweeter,  and,  therefore,  do  not  re¬ 
quire  so  much,  if  any,  sugar  to  make  them  palatable.  Of 
apples  this  is  peculiarly  true.  Few  condiments  are  neces¬ 
sary  for  any  of  these  pies ;  apple  pie  in  particular  will  be 
found  at  once  agreeable  and  wholesome  by  only  having  a 
little  grated  ginger  put  into  it  before  being  baked.  And, 
although  sugar  is  usually  added  to  fruit  pies  in  pretty  large 
quantity,  the  dyspeptic  will  find  it,  in  general,  best  to  avoid 
much  of  that  condiment.  And  note,  particularly,  that 
cream  added  to  any  fruit  pie,  as  a  condiment,  will  gene¬ 
rally  render  it  more  unfit  for  undergoing  the  process  of 
digestion. 

*  “  Huiires,  dans  lequelles  on  dit  avoir  deinontre  la  presence  de 
l’osmazune.  Manuel  d’ Hygiene,  par  Mokin,  page  128. 


FRUIT  PIES. 


275 


APPLE  PIE.  Pare,  core,  and  cut  into  small  segments, 
•apples  sufficient  to  fill  your  dish,  which  line  with  paste  of 
any  quality  you  may  choose ;  see  Paste,  page  267.  If 
I  you  are  not  content  wfith  grated  ginger  as  a  condiment, 
you  may  add  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and  a  few  cloves, 
over  all  which  you  may  strew  some  sugar,  according  to  your 
pleasure.  Put  on  a  crust  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  A  mo¬ 
derate  sized  pie  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Note,  some  put  an  inverted  tea  cup  in  the  middle  of  the 
pie  to  retain  the  syrup  which  is  formed  during  the  baking, 
but  this  is  not  necessary  provided  the  pie  is  not  subjected  to 
too  much  heat;  it  is  besides  old  fashioned,  and  with  many 
persons  this  will  be  sufficient  to  prevent  a  tea-cup’s  being 
employed,  but  our  council  of  cooks  recommend  it,  never¬ 
theless. 

Note  also  that  some  will  boil  the  parings  and  cores  of  the 
apples  in  water,  with  a  bit  of  mace,  till  the  flavour  is  ex¬ 
tracted,  then  strain  the  liquor,  boil  it  down  to  a  small 
quantity,  and  put  it  into  the  pie  before  sending  it  to 
the  oven ;  but  this  is  an  unnecessaiy  and  useless  trouble. 
Some  add  to  it  also  a  little  quince  marmalade.  And  some, 
after  it  is  baked,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  or  more  eggs  with 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar,  then  make 
the  mixture  boiling  hot  and  pour  it  into  the  pie.  A  very 
ingenious  method  of  making  a  good  dish  unwholesome. 

PEAR  PIE,  GOOSEBERRY  PIE,  CURRANT  PIE, 
PLUM  PIE,  CHERRY  PIE,  AND  OTHER  FRUIT 
PIES,*  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to  that  of  apple  pie, 

*  Of  the  more  important  of  all  these  fruits  the  following  short 
!  notices  may  be  here  acceptable. 

APPLES  are  the  produce  of  the  pyrus  malus,  or  wild  apple 
tree,  a  native  of  most  of  the  countries  of  Europe  as  w'ell  as  of 
England;  but  the  apples  found  in  our  gardens  and  orchards  are 
obtained  by  culture  ;  in  fact  the  varieties  of  the  apple  are  almost 
innumerable  ;  about  240  kinds  are  enumerated  in  Loudon's  Gar¬ 
dening ;  but  many  others  not  there  named  are  to  be  obtained  in 
several  of  our  provinces.  The  fruit,  whether  considered  as  a 
dessert,  a  kitchen,  or  a  cyder  apple,  is  invaluable  :  those  abound¬ 
ing  with  more  acidity  than  sweetness  are  the  best  for  cooking. 
The  Russet  coat  and  codling  are  for  this  purpose  universally  known  ; 
and  there  is  an  apple  well  known  in  some  parts  of  Somersetshire 
called  there  the  penny  loaf,  which  is  excellent  for  dumplings  and 
pies;  as  soon  as  the  fruit  becomes  large  enough,  which  it  is  in 


276 


FRUIT  PIES. 


varying  a  little  the  condiments  according  to  your  pleasure ; 
but  the  more  simple  such  pies  and  their  condiments  are,  the 
better  and  more  wholesome  will  they  respectively  be. 


August,  it  may  be  employed  for  culinary  purposes,  and  it  con¬ 
tinues  for  several  months  to  afford  an  excellent  supply  ;  the  tree 
is  a  good  bearer,  and  the  fruit  weighs  very  often  half  a  pound 
each  ;  one  the  present  writer  once  had  that  weighed  fifteen 
ounces ;  this  fruit  deserves  metropolitan  notice.  Apples  are 
usually  propagated  by  grafting ;  some,  as  the  codling,  will  grow 
by  slips ;  new  varieties  are  produced  by  seed.  See  Cyder  for¬ 
wards. 

PEARS  are  the  fruit  of  the  Pyrus  communis ,  or  common  pear, 
a  thorny  tree  growing  wild  in  England,  France,  Germany,  and 
other  parts  of  Europe  ;  the  pear,  as  well  as  the  apple,  has  been 
known  from  early  times  ;  the  Romans  had,  it  is  said,  thirty-six 
varieties  of  it ;  at  the  present  time  the  varieties  are  by  far  more 
numerous  ;  Loudon  mentions  115  ;  for  the  dessert,  the  kitchen,  and 
for  perry  pears  furnish  many  useful  varieties.  They  are  best  pro¬ 
pagated  by  grafting  or  budding  ;  new  kinds  are  to  obtained  from 
seed.  In  choosing  pears  for  the  kitchen  the  same  rule  may  be 
applied  as  to  the  apples  ;  the  more  acid  for  this  purpose  are  the 
best. 

QUINCES  are  the  produce  of  the  Pyrus  cydonia,  (or  by  some  bo¬ 
tanists,  Cydonia  vulgaris)  a  native  of  Austria;  it  is  cultivated  by 
layers,  cuttings,  or  grafting.  The  fruit,  when  ripe,  is  yellow, 
and  similar  in  shape  to  many  of  the  pear  tribe;  it  has  a  singular 
smell,  and  imparts,  when  converted  into  a  marmalade,  or  other¬ 
wise  mixed  with  apples,  a  flavour  which  is,  by  many,  considered 
an  improvement  to  apple  pie.  It  is  tolerably  plentiful  around 
London,  but  is  not  much  known  or  sought  after  in  the  provinces. 

PLUMS  are  the  fruit  of  the  Prunus  domestica,  or  common  plum, 
a  native  of,  or  long  naturalized,  in  this  country;  its  original  birthr 
place  is  said  to  be  Syria,  whence  it  was  brought  to  Greece,  and 
thence  scattered  over  Europe.  This  fruit  has  been  known  from 
early  ages  ;  its  varieties  are  numerous  ;  the  Green  Gage,  magnum 
bonum,  the  Orleans,  and  the  Damson  plum  are  well  known :  the 
last  chiefly  for  pies  and  puddings,  for  which  it  seems,  of  all  the 
plum  tribe,  best  adapted  and  most  wholesome.  Plums  are  pro¬ 
pagated  by  grafting  or  budding  on  the  suckers  of  healthy  plum 
stocks  ;  new  varieties  are  produced  by  seed.  In  the  choice  of  plums 
for  the  kitchen  the  same  rule  must  be  adopted  as  for  apples  ;  the 
more  acid  are  generally  the  best. 

BULLACE,  the  fruit  of  the  Prunus  insititia,  a  native  of  this 
country,  is  also  sometimes  employed  in  cookery.  The  SLOE, 
the  produce  of  the  Prunus  spinosa,  a  well  known  shrub,  growing 
wild  every  where  in  England,  occasionally  enters  also  into  our 
cookeries  ;  but  it  is  used  chiefly  to  give  the  flavour  of  port  wines 
to  those  of  our  home  manufacture.  See  Wine  l'orwmrds. 

CHERRIES  are  the  fruit  of  the  Prunus  Cerasus,  a  tree  growing 


I 


FRUIT  PIES. 


277 


RHUBARB  PIE  is  made  with  the  rhubarb  stalks,  pre¬ 
pared  in  a  similar  way  to  that  directed  for  rhubarb  pudding, 

wild  in  many  woods  of  this  country,  but  improved  by  cultivation 
into  many  and  valuable  varieties,  the  chief  of  which  are  the  May 
Duke,  the  White  heart,  Black  heart,  and  Morello  cherries;  the 
last  being  frequently  employed  for  tarts  and  other  culinary  pur¬ 
poses  ;  they  are  the  most  acid  of  all  the  cherry  tribe,  and  for  this 
reason  are,  we  believe,  the  most  wholesome  ;  they  ripen  late,  and 
the  tree  is  usually  trained  against  a  wall.  The  cherry  is  pro¬ 
pagated  either  by  grafting  or  budding  on  wild  cherry  stocks. 
The  cultivated  cherry  was,  it  is  said,  brought  to  Rome  from 
Cerasus,  a  town  in  Asia,  (whence  its  specific  name)  in  the  year 
73  of  the  Christian  era,  and  introduced  to  this  country  towards 
the  end  of  the  second  century.  See  Wine  forwards. 

GOOSEBERRIES  are  the  fruit  of  the  Ribes  grossularia,  a 
shrub  which  grows  wild  in  several  places  in  Europe,  and,  indeed, 
in  several  places  in  this  country;  but  the  gooseberries  obtained  in 
our  gardens  are  the  produce  of  cultivation  ;  they  are  found  in  a 
ripe  state  of  a  yellowish  white,  red,  and  green  ;  there  are  a  great 
many  varieties  ;  the  red  are  usually  the  most  acid,  and,  for  culi¬ 
nary  purposes,  the  best.  They  are,  however,  often,  indeed  most 
commonly,  employed  for  pies  and  puddings  in  an  unripe  state. 
Lancashire  is  said  to  be  the  place  where  the  gooseberry  is  culti¬ 
vated  to  the  greatest  perfection.  Gooseberries,  as  now  produced 
in  this  country,  are  a  useful  and  valuable  fruit.  See  Wine 
forwards. 

RED  CURRANTS  are  the  fruit  of  the  Ribes  rubrum,  a  shrub 
that  grows  wild  in  woods  and  thickets  in  some  parts  of  this  coun¬ 
try  ;  but  itis  much  improved  by  cultivation,  and  propagated  usually 
by  cuttings,  slips,  or  suckers  ;  cultivation  has  also  given  us  the 
white  and  pale  red  varieties.  It  is  said  that  this  fruit  was  not 
known  to  the  Greeks  or  Romans.  Ripe  currants  are  a  wholesome 
fruit  if  eaten  in  moderate  quantity;  they  are  also  used  largely 
for  pies,  puddings,  tarts,  and  wine.  See  Wine. 

BLACK  CURRANTS  are  the  produce  of  the  Ribes  nigrum,  a 
shrub  whose  leaves,  stalks,  and  fruit,  have  a  strong  and  very 
peculiar  smell ;  it  is  a  native  of  most  parts  of  Europe,  and  abounds 
in  the  woods  of  Russia  and  Siberia.  The  fruit  is  liked  by  some 
persons,  others  will  not  touch  it.  It  is  hence  not  a  very  desirable, 
nor,  we  believe,  a  very  w  holesome  fruit,  although  it  is  occasionally 
made  into  tarts,  jellies,  and  wines.  It  is  propagated  by  suckers 
or  cuttings  ;  this  fruit  has  no  varieties. 

Among  other  fruits,  WHORTLEBERRIES  or  WHORTS  may 
be  mentioned  as  being  the  fruit  of  the  Vaccinium  myrtillus,  a  small 
shrub,  growing  in  many  hilly  and  mountainous  parts  of  this  coun¬ 
try.  Whorts  are  of  a  black  colour  and  occasionally  to  be  obtained 
in  the  London  markets  ;  they  make  a  pie  much  relished  by  some  ; 
the  taste  is,  however,  singular ;  the  addition  of  red  currants  or 
raspberries  to  them  is  considered  by  many  a  great  improvement. 


278 


MINCE  PIES. 


page  2,57  ;  the  paste  may  he  any  good  one  that  you  choose ; 
it  requires  to  be  baked  the  same  time  as  an  apple  pie.  The 
only  necessary  condiment  is  a  little  sugar. 

Note,  this  is  a  very  pleasant  variety  amongst  pies,  and 
is  perhaps  as  wholesome  as,  if  not  more  so,  than  any  of 
the  tribe. 

MINCE  PIE  is  made  in  a  variety  of  ways  ;  the  follow¬ 
ing  will  be  found  a  good  one.  Take  one  pound  of  the  inside 
of  the  lean  part  of  a  loin  of  beef,  or  any  other  part  which 
is  tender  and  free  from  membranes,  &c.  let  it  be  parboiled, 
and  when  cold,  minced  very  fine  ;  some  prefer  to  this  cold 
roast  beef ;  mince  also  fine  the  same  quantity  of  beef  suet; 
and  wash  and  dry  by  the  fire  one  pound  also  of  currants, 
to  which  some  will  add  the  same  quantity  of  raisins  stoned 
and  minced  fine ;  take  also  a  pound  of  some  good  boiling 
apples,  pared,  cored,  and  minced  very  fine ;  mix  the  whole 
well  together,  to  which  add  one  pound  of  powdered  lump 
or  fine  raw  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  one  drachm  each 
of  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  all  in  powder,  and  four 
ounces  or  more  each  of  candied  citron,  orange,  and  lemon 
peel,  (some  use  a  much  larger  quantity  of  each  than  is  here 
set  down,)  all  well  minced,  and  the  outside  of  two  or  three 
lemons  grated  fine,  and  their  juice;  add  to  the  whole,  well 
mixed,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy  and  the  same  quan¬ 
tity  of  sherry  or  other  good  wine.  If  this  mixture  be  put 
into  a  stone  jar,  closely  stopped,  it  will  keep  for  many 

They  may  be  preserved  as  other  fruit,  but  their  peculiar  flavour  is 
in  part,  at  least,  lost ;  from  their  want  of  much  acidity  they  are 
not  so  wholesome  as  CRANBERRIES,  the  small  red  fruit  of  the 
oxycoccos  palustris,  a  shrub  growing  in  the  boggy  parts  of  this 
country.  They,  as  well  as  the  AMERICAN  CRANBERRY,  the 
fruit  of  the  oxycoccus  macrocarpus,  now  occasionally  cultivated  in 
this  country,  form  an  agreeable  variety  for  tarts,  &c.  Of  our  own 
well  known  BLACKBERRIES,  the  fruit  of  the  Rubus  fruticosus, 
it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  more  than  this,  that,  in  their  ripe 
state,  they  are  by  no  means  a  wholesome  fruit ;  their  deficiency  of 
acid  is  sometimes  supplied  with  a  portion  of  red  currants  or  rasp¬ 
berries.  Blackberries  need  not  be  sought  after  by  the  cook  for 
any  purpose. 

The  DEWBERRY,  the  fruit  of  the  Rubus  cccsius,  another  of 
our  indigenous  shrubs,  is  much  more  wholesome  than  the  black- 
bery  ;  but  it  is  scarce,  and,  therefore,  not  easily  obtained. 

For  Raspberry  and  Strawberry,  see  forwards,  under  Jams. 
For  Apricots,  Peaches,  and  Nectarines,  see  page  2S1. 


TARTS  AND  PUFFS. 


279 


months;  it  is  known  in  cookery  by  the  name  of  Mince 
Meat.  Your  pies  and  tarts  may  be  made  with  it  and  good 
paste  in  a  similar  way  to  that  directed  for  other  pies  and 
tarts . 

Note ,  that  some,  instead  of  beef,  employ  a  parboiled 
neat’s  tongue,  skinned  and  finely  minced  ;  and  some  will 
mince  the  currants  fine,  as  well  as  the  raisins,  which  fash¬ 
ion  considers  a  more  delicate  way.  Some  will  omit  the 
meat  entirely  ;  when  this  is  done  it  is  called  a  Lent  Mince 
Pie,  in  which  are  sometimes  put  hard  boiled  eggs,  finely 
minced,  and  the  juice  of  lemons  or  Seville  oranges,  or  both; 
but  if  the  mince-meat  is  to  be  kept  for  some  time,  the  eggs 
should  be  omitted,  as  they  may  putrefy:  the  wine  and 
brandy  must,  by  all  means,  be  put  to  it. 

Note  also  that  the  more  simple  the  mince  pie  is,  the 
more  wholesome  it  must  be  ;  therefore,  if  it  be  made  with 
equal  parts  of  minced  beef,  suet,  apples,  and  currants,  it 
will  be  better  than  when  united  to  sugar  and  the  candied 
fruits,  which,  to  dyspeptic  stomachs,  are  peculiarly  inju¬ 
rious.  There  is  no  objection  to  the  acids  from  Seville 
oranges  and  lemons. 

TARTS  AND  PUFFS  are  usually  made  with  the  best 
and  finest  flour,  concerning  which  and  several  pastes,  the 
reader  will  be  good  enough  to  refer  to  the  General  Obser¬ 
vations  on  Pies,  page  265 ;  but  we  may  observe  here  that 
if  tin  patties  be  used  for  baking  tarts,  they  should  be  but¬ 
tered  and  have  a  thin  crust  all  over  their  bottoms  ;  if  glass 
or  china  be  employed  an  upper  crust  only  is  requisite,  as 
the  tarts  will  be  sent  to  the  table  in  such  patties  :  lay  fine 
sugar  at  the  bottom,  then  the  fruit  and  a  little  sugar  at 
;he  top.  Put  on  the  covering  of  paste,  and  bake  them  in 
a  slack  oren.  Mince-meat  tarts  should  be  baked  in  tin 
patties.  Tarts  of  preserved  fruits  should  have  a  very  thin 
crust  at  top;  they  require,  in  baking,  a  very  little  time. 

CRISP  TART  PASTE.  Mix  with  spring  water  half 
a  pound  of  fine  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
two  ounces  of  powdered  lump  or  of  very  fine  moist  sugar, 
and  two  eggs  well  beaten;  knead  the  whole  well  into  a 
paste. 

|  PUFF  PASTE  is  described  in  page  267 ;  but  we  add 
here  another,  which  we  recommend  for  tarts,  &c. :  soften, 


TARTS  AND  TARTLETS. 


280 

with  the  hands,  a  pound  of  fresh  or  of  good  salt  butter  ; 
lay  it  in  cold  water ;  sift  a  pound  of  the  best  white  flour, 
and  rub  lightly  into  it  half  the  butter,  mix  it  into  a  paste 
with  cold  spring  water,  roll  it  out,  and  then  put  on  it,  in 
little  bits,  half  of  the  remaining  butter,  fold  up  the  paste, 
roll  it  again,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  butter :  strew  lightly 
over  it  a  little  flour,  roll  it  and  set  it  by  in  a  cool  place  for 
an  hour  or  more,  till  it  is  wanted,  when  it  must  be  rolled 
out  two  or  three  times  more. 

A  PASTE  FOR  STRINGING  TARTLETS  is  pre¬ 
pared  by  cutting  a  bit  of  puff-paste  into  pieces,  mixing  it 
with  some  flour  and  a  little  water,  so  as  to  make  it  of  a 
moderate  stiffness ;  then  let  it  be  moulded  with  the  hands 
till  it  may  be  drawn  into  fine  threads.  Roll  a  piece  out 
three  inches  long  and  twro  broad  ;  cut  it  into  slips,  draw 
them  out  singly  and  lay  them  across  the  tarts  according  to 
.  your  fancy. 

TARTS  AND  TARTLETS.  Line  the  pans  with  puff- 
paste  rolled  thin,  trim  the  edge  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 
fill  them  with  raspberry  or  other  jam,  orange  marmalade, 
or  stewed  apple,  &c.  and  put  fine  strings  of  paste  across 
them,  according  to  your  fancy.  Let  them  be  baked  in  a 
quick  oven,  taking  care  that  they  are  not  browned  too 
much. 

APPLES  FOR  TARTS  must  be  pared,  cored,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  and  stewed  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  a  little 
water,  and  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  till  they  are  reduced  to  a 
pulp;  sweeten  with  sugar  and  add  other  spice  if  you  choose  ; 
rub  the  pulp  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  let  it  become  cold 
before  it  is  put  into  the  tart. 

ORANGE  or  LEMON  TARTS  are  directed  in  the 
books  to  be  made  in  many  wrays;  but  the  simplest  and  the 
most  elegant  will  be  those  which  are  made  with  the  outside 
of  the  peel  grated  fine,  and  mixed  with  the  pulp  of  the 
apple  as  described  in  the  preceding  article :  you  may,  if 
you  please,  add  the  juice  of  the  respective  fruits,  but  as 
the  flavour  of  the  essential  oil,  which  resides  only  in  the 
outside  peel,  is  the  article  chiefly  wanted,  you  will,  if  you 
desire  your  tart  to  taste  strongly  of  either  orange  or  lemon, 
use  a  pretty  considerable  quantity  of  the  grated  peel.  You 
may  take  what  oranges  you  please  for  the  purpose,  provided 


FRUIT  TARTS. 


281 


he  outside  peel  is  of  a  fragrant  smell ;  some  use  that  of  the 
Seville  orange,  and,  where  much  bitterness  is  not  objected 
o,  that  may  be  employed. 

FRUIT  TARTS  of  VARIOUS  KINDS  may  be,  after 
vhat  has  been  said  above,  most  readily  made  ;  Currants, 
Gooseberries,  Raspberries,  Cherries,  and  Apri- 
:ots,*  are  most  commonly  employed  for  this  purpose.  The 
nore  elegant  tarts  will  be  those  which  are  made  with  the 
Vuit  preserved  or  made  into  a  jam,  as  that  of  raspberries  ; 
jut  currants  and  gooseberries,  as  well  as  raspberries,  are  often 
impioyed  in  tarts  without  such  preparation.  The  great  fault 
if  jams  is  that  there  is  generally  too  much  sugar  in  them, 
vhich  not  only  destroys,  in  part  at  least,  the  flavour  of  the 
ruit,  but  renders  tbe  tart  much  more  unwholesome ;  it 
should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  more  acid  fruits  suit  best  the 
mman  stomach ;  and  that  even  the  acid  fruits  should  not 
ie  too  much  alloyed  with  sugar.  Rhubarb  stalks,  cut 
small,  will  also  make  a  pleasant  tart;  see  Rhubarb  Pud- 
ling,  page  257. 

Note,  some  of  the  prepared  fruits  and  jams  are  put  at 
>nce  into  their  respective  patties  of  paste,  previously  baked 

*  Apricots  are  the  fruit  of  the  Prunus  Armeniaca,  a  tree  of 
he  plum  tribe,  native  of  Armenia,  and  known  in  this  country 
rom  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century.  Apricots  make, 
vhen  about  half  grown,  a  very  pleasant  pie,  and  are  sometimes 
licked  off  the  trees  in  an  unripe  state  for  such  purpose;  more 
ispecially  is  this  done  where  the  tree  has  a  larger  quantity  of  fruit 
han  it  can  well  ripen.  They  are  also  used,  when  ripe,  for  pies,  &c. 
is  well  as  the  dessert,  and  are  much  esteemed.  There  are  many 
varieties ;  those  which  are  woolly  are  least  valuable.  The  apricot 
s  generally  budded  upon  plum  stalks,  and  it  is  usually  trained 
igainst  a  wall ;  but  it  has  sometimes,  in  the  south  of  England, 
lorne  fruit  as  a  standard. 

We  may  add  here  that  Peaches  belong  to  the  almond  tribe ; 
!hey  are  the  fruit  of  the  Amygdalus  Persia,  said  to  have  been 
irought  to  Europe  from  Persia ;  it  has  been  known  in  England 
from  the  year  1562.  There  are  many  varieties,  most  of  which  are 
lelicious  fruit,  and  used  for  the  dessert  as  well  as  for  pies,  &c. 
It  is  propagated  by  budding  on  plum  stocks,  seedling  peaches, 
ipricots,  or  almonds.  The  peach  is  always  trained  in  this  country 
igainst  a  wall.  The  leaves  are  occasionally  used  in  cookery,  but 
is  they  contain  Prussic  acid  they  should  be  employed  with  great 
.autiun. 

The  Nectarine  is  a  smooth  skinned  variety  of  the  peach,  than 
.vhich  it  is  by  many  more  esteemed. 


282 


PETIT  PATTIES.  —  PUFFS. 


in  tins,  without  undergoing  any  further  baking,  and  thin 
are  served  up.  Some  too  will  pour  over  them  cream ,  ; 
luxurious,  but,  assuredly,  an  unwholesome  condiment. 

Note  also,  that  although  tarts  are  often  made  without  i 
covering  of  paste,  they  are  also  often  made  with  a  cover¬ 
ing,  and,  therefore,  you  will  adopt  which  method  yot 
please. 

PETIT  PATTIES.  Take  equal  parts  of  the  lean  oi 
veal,  of  bacon,  and  of  beef  suet ;  mince  them  fine,  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  then  braise  them  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  few  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Prepare  a  short  crust,  roll  it  thick,  and  make 
your  patties  about  the  size  of  a  bowl  of  a  spoon  and  an  inch 
deap.  Put  your  mince  meat  into  them,  cover  it  with 
crust,  rub  over  them  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  bake  them. 

Note,  these  patties  make  a  handsome  garnish  for  a  largi 
dish  ;  and  note  also  that  similar  patties  may  be  made  with 
Chicken  and  Ham  ;  with  Forcemeat  of  various  kinds 
and  with  Lobsters  or  Oysters,  to  which  must  be  added 
the  condiments  appropriate  to  each. 

SIMPLE  PUFFS.  Roll  out  moderately  thin,  that  is, 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  some  puff  paste,  cut  it 
with  an  inverted  wine-glass,  or  other  vessel,  into  cakes; 
place  them  on  a  sheet  of  writing  paper,  and  bake,  but  do 
not  broivn,  them  ;  twenty  or  more  minutes  will  be  sufficient 
in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

Note  that  these  puffs,  when  cold,  are  excellent  for  the 
purpose  of  serving  up  any  preserves  or  jams,  by  which  an 
elegant  dish  may  be  made  at  a  very  little  expense  ;  you  may 
lay  your  preserve  or  jam  on  the  puff,  in  small  or  large 
quantity,  according  to  your  fancy. 

CURD  PUFFS.  Add  some  rennet  to  two  quarts  of 
milk  in  order  to  coagulate  it ;  when  the  curd  is  fully  formed 
put  it  into  a  coarse  cloth  in  order  that  the  whey  may  be 
separated  from  it.  Rub  the  curd  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  i 
mix  with  it  four  ounces  of  butter,  ten  ounces  of  the  crumb 
of  bread  rubbed  fine,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  outside 
peel  of  a  lemon  also  grated,  and  a  spoonful  of  wine  ;  add 
sugar  at  your  pleasure  ;  butter  the  cups,  and  bake  them  for 
half  an  hour  or  more. 

WAFERS.  Take  two  spoonsful  each  of  flour,  sugar, 


rUFFS. 


283 


ind  cream,  and  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water.  Beat 
ill  these  well  together  for  half  an  hour.  Make  the  wafer- 
;ongs  hot,  and  pour  a  little  of  the  batter  in  to  cover  the 
rons.  Bake  them  on  a  stove  fire,  and,  while  baking,  roll 
ffiem  round  a  stick  like  a  spigot. 

Note,  when  they  are  cold  they  may  be  eaten  with  tea  or 
vith  jellies. 

SUGAR  PUFFS.  Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  into  a 
ligh  froth  ;  add  to  them,  in  a  marble  mortar  or  other  con¬ 
venient  vessel,  as  much  powdered  lump  sugar  as  will  make 
die  mixture  thick  ;  rub  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  some 
:araway  seeds,  and  take  a  sheet  of  wafers  and  lay  it  on  as 
’iroad  as  a  sixpence  and  as  high  as  possible.  Bake  them  in 
1  moderately  heated  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

ALMOND  PUFFS.  Blanch  two  ounces  of  sweet 
dmonds,  and  beat  them  fine  with  orange-flower  water  ;  beat 
;he  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  high  froth,  to  which  add  the 
ieaten  almonds  and  sufficient  powdered  sugar  to  make  it 
jnto  a  paste  ;  make  it  into  cakes,  lay  them  on  paper,  and 
lake  them  in  a  slack  oven. 

LEMON  PUFFS.  Mix  with  a  pound  of  finely  pow7- 
lered  lump  sugar  the  juice  of  two  lemons  ;  beat  the  white 
if  an  egg  to  a  high  froth,  add  it  to  the  sugar  and  lemon 
dice,  and  beat  the  whole  for  half  an  hour  ;  add  now  three 
?ggs  well  beaten,  and  the  outside  peel  of  two  lemons 
>rated  fine;  let  the  whole  be  well  mixed,  sprinkle  some 
inely  powdered  sugar  on  writing  paper,  and  drop  the 
buffs,  in  small  drops,  upon  it.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate 
Iven. 

COROLLARY. 

Of  Pudding,  Pie,  of  Tart  and  Puff, 

We  have,  we  hope,  said  quite  enough 
For  their  confection.  Ere  we  part 
With  Pudding,  Pie,  and  Puff  and  Tart, 

Permit  us  to  present  to  you 
A  reminiscent,  brief  Review 
Of  what  hath  been  advanced  :  we  show 
That,  in  the  catalogue  of  food. 

Most  of  them  will  be  ever  low — 

Few  passable — yet  fewer  good. 

Some  will  the  stomach  much  enthral  : 

These  we  might  aptly  POISONS  call  ; 


284  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 

But,  for  the  CHILDREN  great  and  small. 
Who  e’er  for  pies  and  puddings  bawl. 

We  will  not  now  fix  on  the  label ; 

Aye,  let  them  eat  while  they  are  able. 

If  that  they  will  deride  what  we 
Above  have  stated  seriously. 

Assur’d  that,  by  experience  wise. 

The  Truth  will  up  against  them  rise 
With  scorpion  scourges  in  her  hand. 

Or  mark' them  idiots  with  her  brand  ; 
While  Pleasure,  insolent  and  vain. 

Will  hand  them  over  unto  Pain! 


PANCAKES  and  FRITTERS.  Whatever  might  be 
the  practice  of  our  ancestors  in  regard  to  these  hastily 
prepared  dishes ;  whatever  might  be,  in  former  times,  the 
exciting  sound  of  the  Pancake  bell  on  Shrove  Tuesday;  as 


Hark,  I  hear  the  pancake  bell. 

And  fritters  make  a  gallant  smell.” 

Poor  Robin’s  Almanac,  1684. 


— whatever  might  be  the  gallantry  of  the  smell  of  fritters  ; 
whatever  might  have  been  the  digestive  powers  of  the  sto¬ 
machs  of  the  seventeenth  century, —  certain  it  now  is  that, 
comparatively,  few  persons  can  partake  of  them,  when  unfer¬ 
mented  wheat  flour  forms  an  ingredient  more  or  less  large 
in  their  composition,  without  suffering  some  inconvenience. 
Flour,  cream,  sugar,  and  eggs,  more  especially  the  three 
first  mentioned,  form,  when  made  into  a  pancake,  as  pretty 
a  dyspeptic  dish  as  the  most  cunning  demon  of  indigestion 
could  possible  contrive ;  we  must,  nevertheless,  in  accor¬ 
dance  with  custom,  and  the  inclinations  of  many  of  our 
readers,  submit  a  few  forms  for  their  guidance  in  the  con¬ 
fection  of  what  we  most  cordially  disapprove. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add  that  in  frying  both  pan¬ 
cakes  and  fritters,  the  pan,  whether  a  common  frying-pan 
or  a  stewpan  be  employed,  should  be  perfectly  clean  and 
sweet;  that  the  best  fat  for  frying  them  is  lard;  but  that 
good  sweet  dripping  in  the  absence  of  lard  will  answer  the 
purpose ;  butter,  for  the  reasons  before  assigned  under 
Frying,  page  70,  is  not  desirable,  although  some  of  the 
forms  for  these  dishes  in  our  cookery  books  direct  butter  in 
particular  to  be  employed.  Take  care  that  all  the  fat  is 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS.  285 

[rained  from  both  pancakes  and  fritters  before  they  are 
erved  up. 

5  PANCAKES.  Mix  carefully  sufficient  flour  with  a 
part  of  milk  to  make  it  into  a  thin  batter ;  beat  up  well 
ogether  six  eggs,  omitting  the  whites  of  three  ;  mix  them 
vith  the  prepared  batter,  to  which  add  two  spoonsful  ot 
bowdered  ginger,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little  salt. 
\lelt  a  piece  of  lard  in  a  stew  or  frying-pan,  and  pour 
nto  it,  when  melted,  sufficient  batter  to  make  a  pancake 
ibout  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  moving  the  pan  so  that 
he  batter  may  cover  the  whole  of  the  bottom.  Set  the 
>an  over  the  Are  and  shake  it  occasionally  to  prevent  the 
iancake  from  sticking  to  it ;  when  it  is  sufficiently  browned 
urn  it  or  toss  it  over,  so  that  the  upper  side  may  undergo 
he  same  process.  Serve  them  up  with  sugar  strewed  over 
hem. 

Note  that  some  employ  more  eggs  than  above  directed  ; 
thers  no  eggs  at  all ;  but  in  their  stead  fresh  ale,  or  brisk 
mall  beer ;  others  will  not  employ  even  milk,  but  use  only 
rater  to  make  a  batter  with  flour ;  and  others  will  add  a 
arge  proportion  of  currants  to  the  batter;  these  are  the  most 
ikely  to  render  the  pancakes  somewhat  more  w'holesome, 
>y  their  tendency  to  relax  the  bowels;  indeed,  wre  should 
ay  currants  in  a  pancake  ought  never  to  be  omitted, 
n  the  place  of  cream  it  will  be  assuredly  better  to  add 
rntter,  which  may  be  combined  with  the  batter  by  mak- 
ng  it  sufficiently  warm  to  melt  it.  We  have  no  doubt 
hat  flour,  butter,  and  currants,  combined  in  proper  pro- 
tortions,  will  make  a  much  more  wholesome  pancake,  if 
:ven  mixed  with  water,  than  any  form  found  in  our 
iookery  books.  Instead  of  ginger,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 
•  nay  be  used  as  a  condiment ;  some  employ  allspice  only. 

5  CPtEAM  PANCAKES.  Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
pith  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little 
sowdered  cinnamon,  mace,  or  grated  nutmeg,  melt  a  little 
ard  in  your  pan,  and  fry  them  very  thin.  Serve  them  up 
With  finely  powrdered  sugar  strewed  over  them. 

RICE  PANCAKES.  Mix  carefully  three  spoonsful 
>f  ground  rice  with  a  quart  of  cream ;  place  the  mixture 
Wer  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it  becomes  thick  ; 
mt  to  it  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  some  grated  nutmeg. 


286 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


Set  it  by  to  cool ;  when  cold  mix  with  it  three  spoonsful  o 
flour,  a  little  salt,  sugar,  and  six  or  eight  eggs  well  beaten 
Let  them  be  fried  according  to  art. 

Note,  some  employ  new  milk  instead  of  cream,  whicl 
last  is  not  necessary ;  but  a  little  more  flour  or  ground  ric 
must,  when  milk  is  used,  be  added  to  the  mixture. 

PINK  PANCAKES  may  be  made  with  the  preceding 
rice  pancakes,  and  the  addition  of  beet-root  boiled  tender 
and  beaten  into  a  fine  pulp. 

APPLE  FRITTERS  may  be  made  with  the  same  batte 
as  directed  for  Pancakes  above,  to  which  must  be  adde< 
some  apples,  pared  and  cored,  and  then  minced  very  fine  | 
They  must  be  fried  in  a  similar  way  to  that  of  pancakes 
The  only  condition  necessary  to  the  batter  of  fritters  is  tha 
it  must  be  thicker  than  that  for  pancakes,  in  order  that  i 
may  not  spread  too  far  over  the  pan,  fritters  being,  o 
course,  in  the  form  of  small  round  cakes  ;  or,  indeed,  of  am 
other  form  that  you  may  choose.  They  may  be  fried  in 
lard  or  good  dripping.  Note  that  some  put  currants  as  wel 
as  spices  in  these  fritters. 

Note  also  that  peaches,  pears,  and  many  other  fruits 
may  be  made  into  fritters  in  the  same  way  as  apples. 

PLAIN  FRITTERS.  Mix  the  grated  crumb  of  ; 
penny-loaf,  with  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  into  a  smooth  pap 
when  cold  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  thre< 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg 
Fry  them  in  lard ;  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter,  wine 
and  sugar,  in  the  dish. 

Note,  these  are  the  best  of  the  fritter  tribe,  becaus* 
there  is  no  flour  in  them. 

RICE  FRITTERS.  Stir  into  milk,  made  boiling  hot 
sufficient  ground  rice  to  make  it  pretty  thick,  to  which  ad( 
a  pint  of  cream,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  sug’ar,  cinnamor 
in  powder,  nutmeg  grated,  and  six  ounces  of  currants,  i 
little  salt,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  thick  batter 
Fry  them  in  lard :  serve  them  up  with  sugar  and  butter. 

Note,  that  the  forms  for  fritters  may  be  greatly  multi¬ 
plied  ;  but  a  cook,  with  very  little  ingenuity,  will  be  able 
from  what  has  been  said,  to  vary  them  at  her  pleasure. 


287 


CHAPTER  XII. 

UNS,  CAKES  AND  BISCUITS;  CHEESECAKES  AND 
CUSTARDS;  CREAMS  AND  JAMS;  JELLIES, 
BLANCMANGES,  SYLLABUBS,  &C. 


This  Chapter  will  delight  afford 
To  those  who  sit  at  Plenty’s  board. 
Regardless  of  whate’er  we  say  ; 

Regardless  of  the  future  day  ; 

Regardless  of  the  pains  and  aches 
That  Indigestion  often  makes  : 

In  Duty’s  path  still  onward  we] 

Their  faithful  monitors  shall  be  ; 

And,  spite  of  sneer,  in  spite  of  frown. 
Keep,  if  we  can.  Dyspepsia  down. 

Though  Gingerbread  or  Twelfth  Cake  tempt. 
Mothers  !  Ye  cannot  be  exempt 
From  many  cares  your  bairns  to  guide  ; 
Then,  o’er  these  various  cates  preside  ; — 
Let  knowledge  lead  you  by  the  hand — 

The  wholesome  carefully  select — 

The  bad  as  carefully  reject — 

Thus  you  temptation  shall  withstand 
Of  many  a  darling,  asking  child 
That  often  hath  your  soul  beguil’d. 


GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS.  After  the  reiterated 
'Imonitions  which  we  have  given  in  the  tenth  as  well  as 
t  the  last  chapter,  relative  to  the  employment  of  unfer- 
\ented  wheat  flour  in  pastry,  it  can  scarcely  be  neces- 
iry  once  ipore  to  lift  our  warning  voice;  but,  as  we  are 
it  tow  entering  upon  a  branch  of  baked  cookery,  into  which 
ot  only  wheat  flour,  but  sugar ,  eggs ,  and  several  sorts 
?  preserved  fruits  enter,  we  again  caution  those  who  are 
esirous  of  avoiding  unwholesome  food,  as  well  as  many 
thers  who  are,  unfortunately  for  themselves,  too  careless 
Dneerning  it,  to  be  extremely  sparing  in  the  use  of  cakes 
d  other  compositions  of  w'hich  flour,  sugar,  eggs,  fruit, 
d  other  fermentable  ingredients  form  notable  portions. 


a 


288 


GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS. 


Anil  here  we  may  observe,  following  the  views  whicl 
we  have  already  taken  of  this  subject  under  wheat ,  pagi 
205,  that  the  most  wholesome  of  all  the  articles  includec 
in  the  present  chapter,  are  those  into  which  wheat  flou 
enters,  such  flour  having  undergone  the  panary  fermen 
tation.  Hence,  the  reader  will  conclude  that  well  fer 
mented  and  well  baked  buns  and  biscuits  must  be  thi 
best  suited  for  the  stomach,  provided  (and  we  intreat  tha 
the  proviso  be  observed)  they  are  not  loaded  with  othe 
fermentable  or  indigestible  substances,  such  as  eggs,  sugar 
or  preserved  fruits,  all  of  which  are  more  or  less  disposei 
to  go  into  some  fermentation,  or  to  excite  other  unpleasan 
action  when  submitted  to  the  process  of  digestion,  am 
which  it  is  the  design,  in  previously  fermenting  flour,  b 
avoid.  Cream  is  also  often  a  mischievous  article;  chiefly 
we  believe,  because  it  readily  enters  into  a  sort  of  acetou 
or  other  fermentation  that  is  peculiarly7  offensive  to  tf 
stomach  ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  good  fresh  butte 
carefully  freed  from  the  butter  milk,  or  even  good  sal- 
butter  from  which  the  salt  has  been  well  washed  ;  or  tha 
any  other  fat  is  byT  any  means  so  injurious  as  cream 
indeed  the  animal  oils  of  almost  all  kinds,  the  suets,  lard 
and  butter  in  particular,  appear  to  be,  when  mixed  i 
moderate  quantities  with  pastry7,  and  when  not  injured  b 
excessive  heat,  conducive  to  its  digestion,  and  in  fac 
render  it  more  nutricious  :  for  a  certain  portion  of  oleou 
viands  appear  necessary  to  the  well  being  and  health  of  th 
human  body. 

The  flour  used  in  the  making  of  cakes  is  generally  di 
rected  in  our  cookery  books,  to  be  both  sifted  and  dried 
but  "we  presume  the  cook  will  take  care  without  being  es 
pecially  reminded  of  it,  that  w'hen  she  uses  it  both  thes 
conditions  are  fulfilled.  Sugar,  too,  if  refined  should  b 
reduced  to  powder  and  sifted;  if  raw,  of  whatever  kind 
it  should  be  reduced  by  sifting  or  otherwise  to  a  uniforr 
fineness.  Particular  care  is  necessary  in  mixing  butte 
w'ith  flour,  so  that  it  may  be  equally  diffused  throughoi 
the  mass ;  some  for  this  purpose  melt  it  in  a  gentle  het 
and  then  froth  it  up  by  beating  it.  Plum  cakes  are  bdi 
when  baked  in  xvooden  hoops,  by  some  called  garths,  th 
heat  of  the  oven  being  moderated  by  the  wood.  Eggs  shoui 


BUNS. 


289 


V 


be  beaten  up  just  before  you  design  to  use  them,  as,  if  suf¬ 
fered  to  remain  long  unmixed  after  beating,  they  will  re¬ 
quire  to  be  beaten  again. 

It  is  not  an  easy  matter  to  give  directions  for  the  heating 
of  an  oven  to  bake  so  many  and  such  various  articles  as 
those  which  this  chapter  includes;  but  see  what  is  said 
under  Baking,  page  55,  and  also  in  chapter  xi.  page  261 ; 
and,  after  all,  much  must  be  and  will  be  left  to  the  dis¬ 
cretion  of  the  cook  ;  it  is,  therefore,  quite  necessary  that 
she  should  well  understand  this  branch  of  the  art. 

PLAIN  BUNS.  Mix  well  four  ounces  of  butter  with 
two  pounds  of  flour,  to  which  add  four  ounces  of  good  raw 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  or  less  of  caraway  seeds,  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  or  any  other  spice  which  you  may  choose ; 
add  a  spoonful  of  cream  to  four  ounces  of  yeast,  and  as 
much  milk  as  will  make  the  whole  into  a  light  paste.  Set 
it  by  the  fire  that  it  may  ferment.  Divide  the  paste  into 
the  proper  quantities  for  buns  and  bake  them  in  a  quick 
pven. 

CROSS  BUNS  are  made  similarly  to  the  preceding ; 
but  you  must  impress  a  cross  upon  each  by  a  mould  of  tin 
ade  for  the  purpose. 

Note ,  some  use  only  allspice  with  these  buns. 

PLUM  BUNS.  These  may  be  made  with  plain  bun 
oaste,  and  the  addition  of  currants,  candied-lemon,  orange- 
beel  or  citron  minced  fine,  and  what  spices  you  may  choose  ; 
reat  them  in  the  manner  directed  for  plain  buns.  Or,  if 
rou  desire  very  rich  buns  you  must  increase  all  the 
uantities  of  the  ingredients  except  the  flour  :  namely,  to 
wo  pounds  of  flour  add  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound 
r  more  of  currants,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  half  the 
uantity  of  candied  orange,  lemon,  or  citron,  carefully 
ninced,  and  spice  in  plenty.  In  this  case  it  will  be  best 
mix  the  yeast  with  the  milk,  flour,  and  sugar,  first, 
nd  then  set  them  to  ferment,  adding  afterwards  the  other 
lgredients.  These  may  be  baked  in  tart  pans. 

SEED  BUNS  are  made  by  simply  adding  to  the  paste 
rr  plain  buns  or  any  other  better  paste,  one  ounce  or  more 
f  caraway  seeds.  Let  it  ferment  and  be  afterwards  baked 
5  plain  buns. 

Note,  that  some  are  so  injudicious  as  to  colour  buns  and 

o 


290 


M  AN  C  H  ETS. —  CAKES. 


cakes  with  saffron  or  turmeric ,  a  useless  and  silly  practice, 
designed,  we  presume,  to  persuade  us  that  there  are  plenty 
of  eggs  in  their  composition,  ingredients  which,  howmuch- 
soever  we  may  tolerate,  we  are  not  disposed  to  recommend 
in  baked  pastry  of  any  kind:  we  shall,  therefore,  be  happy 
to  see  the  practice  of  dyeing  buns  and  cakes  yellow 
rescinded,  and  advise  our  pastry  cooks  forthwith  to  set  the 
examnle. 

BUTTERED  BUNS  or  MANCHETS.  Set  a  sponge 
(see  Baking  Biiead  forwards,)  with  some  fine  flour, 
water,  (some  use  milk,)  salt,  and  yeast  to  raise  it  with ; 
when  it  has  risen,  mix  flour  sulflcient  with  it  to  make 
the  whole  into  a  thick  dough,  to  which  add  fresh  or  good 
salt  butter  in  the  proportion  of  four  ounces  to  each  pound 
of  dough  ;  let  them  be  well  incorporated  and  then  make 
it  into  buns  or  cakes,  of  any  forms  you  choose— the  dia¬ 
mond  or  the  triangular  is  usually  preferred.  Set  them  on 
tins  to  hold  about  a  dozen  each,  in  a  warm  place  for  an 
hour  or  more  that  they  may  rise :  bakers  sometimes  employ 
the  crown  of  the  oven  for  this  purpose.  Bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven  ;  a  few  minutes  are  generally  sufficient.  When 
they  are  done,  brush  them  over  with  milk. 

Note,  that  the  luxurious  eat  them  while  hot  from  the 
oven  for  breakfast ;  they  are  most  wholesome  when  at  least 
twelve  hours  old  ;  they  may  be  warmed  again  in  a  Dutch 
oven. 

A  BERKSHIRE  CAKE;  Miss  Withers’s.*  Take 
three  pounds  of  such  dough  as  the  bakers  in  London  employ 
for  their  best  bread  ;  or,  if  you  cannot  obtain  the  dough, 
you  must  make  it  in  the  manner  directed  under  our  chapter 
on  Baking  Bread, ;  one  pound  of  fresh,  clarified  lard, 
half  a  pound  of  currants,  and  four  ounces  of  good  raw 
sugar.  Roll  out  the  dough  into  a  round  cake  three  times, 
laying  on,  at  each  rolling,  the  lard  in  small  bits,  the  sugar 
and  the  currants.  When  all  are  well  incorporated,  roll  the 
whole  into  one  cake  of  about  an  inch  thick.  About  hall 
an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  will  be  sufficient  to  bake  it.  Place 

*  We  are  indebted  for  this  recipe  to  a  young  lady,  who  is  an 
excellent  cook  :  of  this  cake,  as  well  as  of  other  of  her  excellen! 
cookery,  we  have  often  partaken. 


i 


BUNS,  CAKES,  MUFFINS.  291 

some  thick  white  paper  under  it  before  putting  it  into  the 
oven. 

Note,  that  you  may,  at  your  pleasure,  add  double  the 
quantity  of  currants  ;  and  you  may  also  divide  the  dough 
into  many  cakes  instead  of  one,  which  will  make  it  more 
convenient  for  a  party.  The  cake,  if  baked  ivhole,  should 
be  marked  in  diamonds  all  over  the  surface,  in  order  that 
it  may  be  more  easily  divided. 

Here,  the  reader  will  observe,  is  only  a  small  dose  of 
sugar,  no  eggs,  nor  any  of  the  minced  sweetmeats ;  the 
flour  is  previously  fermented ;  the  lard  adds  to  its  whole¬ 
someness  ;  w'e  pronounce  it,  therefore,  a  very  good  cake. 
And  note  also  that  good  fresh  butter  may  be  employed,  if 
you  choose,  instead  of  lard. 

BATH  BUNS.  Mix  well  two  pounds  of  fine  flour,  with 
ffialf  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  made  liquid  by  a  gentle  heat ; 
add  to  the  mixture  the  yolks  of  two  and  the  white  of  one 
egg,  three  table  spoonsful  of  cream,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  good  yeast  all  well  beaten  together.  When  the  whole  is 
thoroughly  incorporated,  set  it  by  to  rise  for  about  half  an 
hour,  when  you  must  add  to  it  six  ounces  of  caraway  com¬ 
fits,  reserving  a  few  to  strew  over  the  tops  of  the  buns 
when  you  have  formed  them.  They  should  be  baked  upon 
buttered  tins. 

Note,  if  the  above  liquids  should  not  be  sufficient  to 
form  the  flour  into  dough,  a  little  milk  or  water  may  be 
aided. 

BATH  CAKES.  Mix  one  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and 
i  pound  of  flour,  with  a  gill  of  yeast  and  some  warm  cream, 
nto  a  paste ;  set  it  by  in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  wffien  suf¬ 
ficiently  risen,  mix  with  it  a  few  caraway  seeds,  and  make 
t  into  cakes  about  the  size  of  French  rolls  or  less;  bake 
hem  on  buttered  tins. 

MUFFINS.  To  a  quart  of  milk  made  hot  add  six  or 
fight  ounces  of  good  yeast  and  fine  flour  sufficient  to  make 
t  into  a  batter.  Let  it  be  in  a  warm  place  for  two  or  more 
lours  to  rise.  When  it  has  well  risen  add  to  the  mixture 
bur  ounces  of  butter  mixed  well  with  some  flour  ;  add  this 
ind  other  flour  sufficient  to  make  the  whole  into  dough,  which 
oust  remain  for  half  an  hour  or  more.  Then  let  it  be  well 

neaded  and  formed  into  muffins  of  the  size  you  wish ; 

o  2 


292 


CRUMPETS,  PIKELETS,  ROLLS. 

after  remaining  half  an  hour  longer  let  them  be  baked  in 
a  quick  oven ;  when  the  under  sides  are  done  they  must 
be  turned  that  the  upper  sides  may  be  subjected  to  the  same 
heat. 

Note,  some  add  eggs  to  muffins  ;  but  we  do  not  approve 
of  this  addition ;  some  will  bake  them  in  a  thick-bottomed 
frying-pan  over  a  fire  ;  but  the  heat  cannot  be  thus  so  well 
regulated  ;  a  stewpan  and  a  charcoal  fire  will  be  better ; 
but  if  this  vessel  be  tinned,  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
heat  is  not  sufficient  to  melt  the  tin  : — an  iron  stewpan  un¬ 
tinned  will,  for  this  purpose,  be  the  best :  an  iron  plate 
will  also  be  convenient  and  placed  so  as  not  to  come  in 
contact  with  the  smoke  of  the  fire. 

We  may  as  well  add  concerning  muffins,  that  how  pleasant 
soever,  when  fresh  baked,  they  may  be  as  tea  cakes,  they 
are  much  more  wholesome  when  suffered  to  become  24 
hours  old  ;  and  then,  being  cut  slightly  around  so  that 
they  may  be  readily  divided  into  two  parts,  toasted  on  both 
the  outsides,  after  which,  being  warmed  through,  they  are 
usually  torn  apart,  not  cut,  and  have  butter  applied  to 
them.  The  chief  fault  of  the  muffins  met  with  in  London, 
is  that  they  are  not  baked  enough. 

CRUMPETS  are  made  with  the  same  materials  as 
muffins  ;  but  the  paste  must  be  only  made  into  a  thick 
batter;  it  is  usual,  too,  only  to  let  it  stand  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  ;  and  then  to  pour  it  into  iron  rings  placed  upon  tins 
and  thus  bake  them. 

Note,  as  the  paste  of  crumpets  is  not  so  completely  fer¬ 
mented  as  muffins,  they  are  consequently  less  wholesome, 
indeed  we  cannot  recommend  them  to  any  one ;  nor  can 
we  recommend 

PIKELETS,  which  are  made  with  similar  batter  and  in  a 
similar  way  too,  but  thinner  than  crumpets ;  these  last,  indeed, 
approach  the  appearance  and  nature  of  a  small  pancake. 

Note,  that  some,  in  making  pikelets,  use  half  milk 
and  half  water,  and  most  persons  use  eggs  well  beaten ; 
these  will  make  the  cake  less  suitable  to  many  stomachs. 

ROLLS  and  BREAD  CAKES.  It  is  usual  in  making 
these  to  select  the  finest  part  of  the  flour  employed  for 
making  bread,  and  ferment  it  exactly  in  the  same  way  as 
if  for  bread  ;  but  they  are  usually  baked  in  a  quick  oven  ; 


YEAST  CAKE.  —  PLUM  CAKE.  293 

after  they  are  baked  they  are  brushed  over,  as  soon  as  they 
are  taken  out  of  the  oven,  with  milk.  See  our  article  on 
the  Baking  of  Bread  forwards. 

Note,  that  rolls  and  cakes  made  with  flour  and  fer¬ 
mented  in  a  similar  way  to  bread,  are  in  the  same  condition 
as  to  their  wholesomeness  as  recently  baked  and  hot  bread  ; 
both,  as  well  as  bread,  eaten  while  hot  suit  only  the 
stomachs  of  those  whose  digestive  powers  are  of  the  first 
order.  All  such,  as  well  as  bread,  are  most  wholesome 
when  tw’enty-four  hours  old.  Recently  baked  bread  as 
well  as  recently  baked  bread-cakes  and  rolls,  should  be 
religiously  avoided  by  the  dyspeptic  :  hot  rolls  are,  for  such, 
an  abomination  ;  and  yet  how  many  of  such  persons  partake 
of  them.  See  Wheat,  pages  204  and  206. 

A  FERMENTED  PLUM  CAKE,  called  sometimes 
YEAST  CAKE.  Mix  with  five  pounds  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  an  ounce  of  spice,  consisting  of  grated 
nutmeg,  mace,  and  cloves  ;  beat  up  twenty-two  eggs, 
(leaving  out  sixteen  of  the  whites,)  with  a  pint  of  orange 
flower  water,  to  wrhich  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  in 
which  must  be  melted  tvTo  pounds  and  a  half  of  butter  made 
a  little  more  than  blood  warm.  Mix  the  whole  together,  to 
which  add  one  pint  of  yeast.  Set  it  by  in  a  warm  place  to 
ferment ;  when  it  has  risen  properly,  mix  with  it  six  pounds 
of  currants  and  half  a  pound  of  either  candied  lemon,  orange, 
or  citron  well  minced,  or  a  proportionate  mixture  of  all  the 
three.  Bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 

Note,  the  fermentation  of  the  flour  will  render  the  cake 
more  wholesome  ;  hut  there  are  so  many  other  fermentable 
materials  in  it  that  wTe  cannot  recommend  even  this  cake  to 
the  dyspeptic. 

Note,  also,  that  a  yeast  cake  may  be,  and  is  made 
in  many  other  ways  ;  some  will  add  sweet  wine  to  it. 

A  PLUM  CAKE  is  made  in  almost  innumerable  ways  ; 
every  cook  has  some  favourite  form  for  it ;  the  following 
is,  perhaps,  one  of  the  best ;  but  it  may  be  varied  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  discretion  or  fancy  of  the  operator. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour,  the  same  quantity 
of  butter,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a 
pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  cut  into  pieces,  eighteen  ounces 
of  lump  sugar,  fourteen  eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites, 
the  outside  peel  of  a  large  lemon  grated  fine,  three  ounces 


294 


PLUM  CAKE. - POUND  CAKE. 


of  candied  orange  peel,  the  same  quantity  of  candied  lemon 
peel  both  minced  fine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mace, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  tea-cupful  of  brandy  or  white  wine, 
and  two  ounces  of  orange-flower  water.  Let  the  butter, 
made  soft  by  a  gentle  heat,  be  mixed  with  the  sugar,  next 
with  the  eggs,  previously  well  beaten,  then  with  the  flour; 
let  these  be  well  beaten  for  an  hour  or  more,  and  just  before 
you  put  it  into  the  oven,  mix  the  brandy,  fruit,  sweetmeats, 
grated  lemon-peel,  spices,  and  orange-flower  water.  Two 
hours  and  a  half  will  be  required  to  bake  it. 

Note,  that  many  will  add  to  this  cake  four  ounces  or 
even  more  of  Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  beaten  into  a 
paste  with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  And  some  will  add 
powdered  cinnamon  or  its  oil  to  the  other  spices  ;  some  will 
add  a  larger  proportion  of  currants. 

A  PLUM  CAKE  WITHOUT  FLOUR.  Mix  well 
a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pound  of  fresh  butter.  Beat  well 
the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  five  whites ;  put  two  thirds  of 
these  to  the  previously  mixed  butter  and  sugar,  and  mix 
them  well  together  till  the  mass  begins  to  be  tough ;  add  to 
the  mixture  a  pound  and  a  half  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  each  of  candied  citron,  candied  orange,  or  lemon-peel 
all  minced,  and  the  same  quantity  of  Jordan  almonds 
blanched  and  beaten  fine.  Beat  into  a  pulp  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  good  raisins  stoned,  to  which  add  a  gill  of  sweet 
wine  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy ;  add  now  the  remainder  of 
the  eggs,  and  let  the  whole  be  mixed  well  together  and 
lightly  beaten  up.  An  hour  in  a  quick  oven  will  be  suf¬ 
ficient  to  bake  it. 

Note,  you  may  add  what  spices  you  choose  to  this  cake, 
but  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon  will  render  it  the  most 
eleg’ant.  Here,  notwithstanding  the  omission  of  flour,  there 
is  sufficient  of  other  ingredients  to  render  it  an  unwholesome 
cake  for  those  whose  digestion  is  not  good. 

A  POUND  CAKE.  Mix  well  one  pound  each  of  sugar 
and  of  fresh  butter  ;  add  to  the  mixture  nine  eggs,  omitting 
five  of  the  whites,  well  beaten,  a  pound  of  flour,  a  few 
caraway-seeds,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange-peel 
minced,  and  a  few  currants  ;  let  the  whole  be  mixed  to¬ 
gether  as  light  as  possible,  and  baked. 

A  CAKE  WITHOUT  SEED.  Mix  well  together  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 


SEED,  TWELFTH  AND  BRIDE  CAKES.  295 

four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg- ;  make  a 
(hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour  and  set  a  sponge  with  four 
lounces  of  yeast  and  a  little  milk  ;  when  it  is  well  risen  add 
a  few  bits  of  candied  lemon-peel  minced,  and  one  egg  well 
beaten.  Mix  the  whole  into  a  mass  with  a  little  warm  milk 
into  a  proper  consistence.  Set  it  by  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place  and  then  bake  it. 

Note,  the  ingenuity  of  the  cook  will  readily  suggest 
a  cake  of  a  better  kind,  namely,  by  adding  a  greater 
quantity  of  eggs,  sugar,  butter,  spices,  and  more  candied 
lemon,  &c.  If  to  such  cakes  the  seeds  of  caraway  be 
added  in  any  quantity,  they  are  usually  called  seed  cakes, 
which,  after  this  general  notice,  it  cannot  be  necessary  further 
to  describe. 

TWELFTH  CAKE.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of 
I  three  pounds  of  flour,  and  set  a  sponge  with  about  a  gill  of 
yeast  and  a  little  warm  milk  ;  put  around  it  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter  in  small  lumps,  ten  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  powdered 
cinnamon,  or  in  its  stead,  a  drop  or  two  of  oil  on  a  lump 
of  sugar,  two  drachms  each  of  powdered  cloves,  mace,  and 
nutmeg,  and  the  same  quantity  each  of  candied  orange, 
lemon-peel,  and  citron,  well  minced.  When  the  sponge 
has  risen,  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  little  warm 
milk.  The  hoops  being-  well  papered  and  buttered,  fill 
them  with  the  mixture  and  bake  them.  When  nearly  cold 
ice  them  over  with  sugar  (see  Icings  for  Cakes  forwards) 
if  you  please ;  or  you  may  let  them  be  quite  plain. 

BRIDE  CAKEvS.  Add  to  one  pound  of  powdered  lump 
sugar,  two  pounds  each  of  fresh  butter  and  fine  flour,  two 
drachms  each  of  powdered  mace,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg, 
fifteen  eggs,  two  pounds  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  Jordan 
almonds  blanched  and  beaten  into  a  paste  ;  half  a  pound 
each  of  candied  citron,  orange,  and  lemon  peel  minced  or 
finely  sliced,  and  a  gill  of  brandy.  Beat  up  first  the  butter 
into  a  soft  mass,  and  then  mix  the  sugar  with  it ;  beat  up 
also  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  good  froth  and  mix  it  with 
the  sugar  and  butter;  then  beat  up  the  yolks  well,  and  add 
them  and  the  flour  to  the  mixture,  together  with  the  spices ; 
lastly,  the  whole  being-  beaten  well  together  mix  in  the 
brandy,  currants,  almonds,  and  sweetmeats.  Bake  it  in  a 


296 


CAKES.  —  GINGERBREAD. 


hoop  lined  with  paper  and  buttered,  in  a  brisk  oven ;  when 
it  has  risen,  cover  it  with  paper  to  prevent  its  burning; 
it  may  he  kept  either  iced  with  sugar  or  plain. 

BRISTOL  CAKES.  Mix  well  together  six  ounces  of 
powdered  lump  or  fine  raw  sugar,  with  six  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  four  whites  and  two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  half  a  pound 
of  flour ;  to  which  add  twelve  ounces  of  currants.  Drop 
the  mixture  with  a  spoon  on  tin  plates  rubbed  with  butter ; 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKES.  Beat  into  a  cream  half  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  to  which  add  half  a  pound  of  flour, 
an  egg,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
caraway  seeds.  Make  the  whole  into  a  paste,  roll  it  thin, 
stamp  it  with  a  tin  cutter,  prick  the  cakes  with  a  fork,  and 
place  them  on  buttered  tin  plates.  Bake  them  in  a  slow 
oven. 

H YDE-PARK-CORNER  CAKES.  Mix  two  pounds 
of  flour  with  four  ounces  of  raw  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  powdered  caraway-seeds  ;  set  a  sponge  with  half  a  gill  of 
yeast  and  a  little  warm  milk  ;  when  it  works  make  some 
milk  boiling  hot,  to  which  add  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 
Mix  the  whole  together  and  let  it  remain  some  time,  then 
roll  it  out  and  cut  it  into  any  form  you  choose;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

GINGERBREAD  NUTS  or  GERMAN  CAKES. 
Mix  well  together  four  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  raw- 
sugar,  one  ounce  or  more  of  caraway  seeds,  half  an  ounce 
of  ginger  finely  powdered,  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and 
two  ounces  of  candied  orange  peel  minced  fine  ;  to  a  pound 
of  treacle  warmed  add  a  gill  of  cream ;  mix  the  wrhole  into 
a  paste  and  let  it  remain  in  a  warm  place  for  six  hours  ; 
then  roll  it  out  and  form  it  into  nuts  or  cakes ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Note,  that  Gingerbread  of  various  qualities  may  be 
thus  made  by  adding  to  the  ingredients  or  varying  their 
quantities.  And  note  also  that  such  preparations  may  suit 
the  robust  and  healthy ;  but  the  valetudinarian  and  the 
dyspeptic  must  religiously  avoid  them. 

If,  however,  a  wholesome  Gingerbread  be  desired, 
it  is  essential  that  the  flour  employed  in  it  should  undergo  a 
previous  fermentation  with  yeast,  similar  to  that  for  bread  ; 


GINGERBREAD,  RICE,  QUEEN  CAKES.  297 

*  and,  instead  of  treacle,  good  raw  or  powdered  lump  sugar 
!  should  be  employed  ;  the  sugar  ought  to  be  in  very  moderate 
]  quantity,  the  ginger  in  a  much  larger  proportion  than  is 
|  above  set  down.  We  are  no  advocates  for  the  employ¬ 
ment  of  treacle  in  food  at  any  time  ;  it  contains  mucilagi¬ 
nous  and  other  matters  that  are  offensive  to  many  stomachs  ; 
it  is  true  that  the  children  of  our  rural  population  con¬ 
sume  considerable  quantities  of  Bread  and  Treacle ;  but 
this  fact  is  an  exception  and  cannot  be  acted  upon  with 
impunity  in  the  highly  artificial  state  of  society  in  our  towns 
and  cities.  The  candied  orange  peel  or  other  similar  candied 
fruits  are  abominations  and  suit  only  the  highly  robust. 

DIET  BREAD  CAKES.  Take  nine  eggs  and  then- 
weight  of  sugar ;  break  the  whites  into  one  bason  and  the 
yolks  into  another  ;  beat  up  the  w-hites  into  a  good  froth, 
beat  also  the  yolks  and  then  mix  them  by  whisking  with  the 
whites  ;  add  the  sugar  and  the  weight  of  five  eggs  of  flour  ; 
let  the  whole  be  wrell  mixed,  adding  a  few  caraway  seeds. 
Bake  it  in  a  hoop. 

Note,  this  is  another  of  those  misnamed  preparations 
against  which  we  cannot  be  too  much  on  our  guard ;  wThy 
the  word  diet  has  been  added  to  it  we  do  not  know,  for  he 
w'ho  employs  it  as  a  diet  bread  will  be  miserably  disap¬ 
pointed. 

SPONGE  BISCUITS  are  made  with  the  same  in¬ 
gredients  as  the  last  preparation,  omitting  the  caraway 
seeds  ;  they  must  be  made  into  small  cakes  or  put  into  tin 
pans  and  baked  in  a  slow^  oven. 

With  the  same  ingredients  may  be  made  many  other, 
cakes  flavoured  with  some  particular  spice  in  powder,  such 
as  cinnamon  ;  as  well  as  lemon  cakes,  which  require 
the  outside  rind  of  the  lemon  grated  fine. 

RICE  CAKES  are  made  in  a  similar  w-ay  to  Diet 
Bread  Cakes,  but  instead  of  flour,  ground  rice  must  be 
employed;  some  add  to  these  cakes  grated  lemon-peel  and 
mace  ;  some  even  add  also  a  little  flour  and  brandy.  They 
require  a  brisk  oven. 

QUEEN  CAKES.  Take  one  pound  each  of  pow-dered 
lump  sugar,  flour,  and  butter;  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
eight  eggs,  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  one  drachm  each  of 
powdered  cinnamon  and  mace.  Let  the  whites  of  the  eggs 

o  3 


298  MACAROONS,  RATAFIA  CAKES. 

be  well  beaten,  and  then  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and 
butter ;  next,  beat  the  yolks  well  and  mix  them  with  the 
butter,  &c.  Lastly,  the  eggs,  butter,  and  sugar  being 
well  beaten  together,  add  the  flour,  spices,  and  currants ; 
when  thoroughly  mixed,  form  the  cakes  into  what  shapes 
you  choose ;  sift  some  powdered  lump  sugar  over  them, 
lay  them  on  tins,  and  let  them  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven. 

Note ,  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  after  wThat  has  been 
already  stated  in  this  chapter,  that  Queen  Cakes  can  only 
be  proper  for  the  stomachs  of  the  robust. 

MACAROONS  AND  MASSEPAINS*  are  composed 
of  almonds,  sugar,  and  eggs  ;  they  may  be,  however,  made 
with  these  articles  in  various  proportions ;  perhaps  the 
following  is  as  good  as  can  be  given :  blanch  and  beat  into 
a  smooth  pulp  one  pound  of  Jordan  or  other  sweet  almonds 
(the  French  order  in  addition  five  ounces  of  bitter  almonds) 
with  a  little  rose  water,  to  which  add  one  pound  of  powdered 
lump  sugar  and  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  into  a  good  froth ; 
beat  the  whole  well  together  for  some  time,  drop  the  mix¬ 
ture  in  small  cakes  upon  wafer  paper  placed  upon  tin  plates  ; 
sift  powdered  lump  sugar  over  them  and  let  them  be  baked 
in  a  moderate  oven.d 

RATAFIA  CAKES.  Blanch  and  beat  into  a  paste 
half  a  pound  each  of  Jordan  or  other  sweet  almonds,  and  of 
bitter  almonds,  with  a  little  rose  water ;  to  which  add  one 
pound  of  powdered  lump  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten;  set  the  mixture  over  a  moderate  fire,  stirring 
it  constantly  till  it  is  scalding  hot ;  when  it  is  cold  make  it 
into  small  rolls,  which  cut  out  into  cakes  about  one  inch  in 

*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  298. 

t  We  think  it  necessary,  once  for  all,  to  observe  here  to  the 
credit  of  M.  Cardelli,  the  author  of  the  Manuel  de  Cuisinier  so 
often  quoted  in  our  work,  that  he  has  added  certain  literal  signs 
to  a  considerable  number  of  the  forms  in  his  work  that  indicate 
the  quality  of  the  compound  as  an  article  of  diet ;  thus  when  it  is 
difficult  to  digest,  the  letters  D.  A.  D.  (i.  e.  difficiles  tl  digerer ) 
are  constantly  appended  to  the  directions  ;  it  is  scarcely  necessary 
to  add  that  almost  every  article  composed  of  similar  ingredients  to 
those  of  macaroons  and  massepains,  has  his  impress  of  D.  A.  D. 
We  hope  that  what  we  have  already  stated  in  our  work  renders 
such  literal  marks  unnecessary,  being  persuaded  that  the  principles 
which  we  have  laid  down  will  enable  most  persons  to  judge  for 
themselves. 


BISCUITS  —  LEMANN  S. 


299 


diameter  ;  touch  each  cake  lightly  with  the  top  of  the  finger 
dipped  in  flour ;  place  them  on  wafer  paper,  sift  sugar  over 
them  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.* 

NAPLES  BISCUITS  are  made  in  various  ways ;  one 
is  as  that  directed  for  Diet  Bread  Cakes,  omitting  the 
caraway  seeds  ;  another  is  by  mixing  together  about  equal 
parts  of  flour  and  powdered  lump  sugar,  to  which  are  added 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
rose  water.  Another  is  by  beating  up  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  into  a  snow,  and  the  yolks  wfith  twenty  ounces  of 
sugar,  which  must  be  mixed  with  twelve  ounces  of  flour, 
and  the  outside  of  a  lemon  grated  fine.  Fill  your  moulds 
(rubbed  over  with  melted  butter)  with  the  paste  and  put 
them  into  the  oven. 

Note,  this  last  form  is  called  in  the  Manuel  de  Cuisinier, 
page  297,  Biscuits  de  Savoie,  and  distinguished  by 
D.  A.  D.  See  the  note  under  macaroons. 

OF  BISCUITS  GENERALLY,  this  remark  may  be 
made — that  the  term  is  French,  and  implies  twice  baked ; 
but  it  is  usually  applied  to  various  kinds  of  hard  cakes, 
many  of  which  have  been  submitted  to  the  long  continued 
heat  of  a  slow  oven.  The  most  wholesome  biscuits  are 
those  the  dough  of  which  has,  like  bread,  been  previously 
fermented,  and  which  contain  little  if  anything  besides 
wheat  flour,  a  small  portion  of  salt,  water,  of  course,  to 
make  it  into  a  stiff  paste,  and  yeast,  and  time  sufficient  to 
produce  the  necessary  fermentation ;  some  will  add  to  this, 
butter  and  caraway  seeds  ;  others,  eggs  and  sugar ;  but 
neither  of  these  last  come  recommended  by  wholesomeness. 
What  are  called,  in  London,  Abernethy s  Biscuits,  gene¬ 
rally  contain  sugar ;  such  are,  therefore,  bad  for  the  dys¬ 
peptic.  The  best  biscuits  with  which  we  are  acquainted 
in  London,  are  those  made  by  Mr.  Lemann  in  Thread- 
needle-street.  Some  of  the  cookery  books  give  a  form 
for  Lemann  s  biscuits,  but  it  is  not  to  be  depended  upon, 
t  is  probable  that  in  addition  to  good  flour  and  some  yeast, 
small  portion  of  carbonate  of  ammonia  is  added  to  the 
dough,  which  contributes  to  their  lightness,  and  renders 


For  liquid  Ratafias  see  forwards. 


300  TOPS  AND  BOTTOMS. —  BISCUITS. 


them  more  suitable  to  the  stomach.  Tops  and  Bottoms 
appear  to  be  made  of  the  finest  flour,  have  plenty  of  yeast 
in  them,  and  are  thoroughly  baked.  See  page  20 5. 

Note,  that  the  form  given  in  some  of  our  Cookery 
Books  for  tops  and  bottoms,  in  which  eggs  are  ordered  in 
them,  should  not  be  depended  upon  ;  the  intelligent  cook 
will  readily  find  a  better  method  of  making  them  ;  they 
must  he,  at  all  events,  thoroughly  fermented  with  good 
yeast,  and  should  be  made  of  the  best  wheat  flour. 

It  is  nevertheless  true,  that  well  fermented  bread  or 
biscuits  will  not  keep  so  long1  as  biscuits  made  with  flour 
and  water,  and  afterwards  well  baked,  so  as  to  be  deprived 
of  all  their  moisture,  instanced  in  the  long  period  which 
sea-biscuits  will  keep  without  spoiling ;  but  such  biscuits 
are  nevertheless  suited  chiefly  for  those  whose  digestion  is 
of  the  first  order  ;  and  the  digestion  of  the  sailor  generally 
is  of  this  kind. 

SWEET  BISCUITS  may  be  made  thus  ;  beat  well  eight 
eggs  into  a  froth,  to  which  add  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar 
and  the  outside  peel  of  a  lemon  grated  fine ;  whisk  the 
whole  well  together  till  it  becomes  light,  then  add  to  it  a 
pound  of  flour  with  a  little  rose  water.  Sugar  them  over 
and  bake  them  in  papers  or  tins. 

DROP  BISCUITS.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
and  the  yolks  of  ten  with  a  spoonful  of  rose-water,  to  which 
add  ten  ounces  of  powdered  lump  sugar.  Beat  the  whole 
well  up  and  add  one  ounce  of  bruised  caraway  seeds,  and 
six  ounces  of  flour.  Drop  them  on  wafer  papers,  and  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

These  Forms  for  Sweet  Biscuits  may  be  varied  a! 
your  pleasure  :  if  you  put  a  larger  quantity  of  lemon  peel 
they  are  usually  called  Lemon  Biscuits;  if  candied  lemon- 
peel  minced  fine,  French  Biscuits  ;  and  with  a  trifling- 
variation  Spanish  Biscuits. 

A  SOMERSETSHIRE  BISCUIT  is  usually  made  with 
wheat-flour  fermented  with  yeast,  and  a  pretty  large 
quantity  of  caraway  seeds,  to  which  is  added  a  portion  ot 
butter  more  or  less  large  ;  they  are  baked  in  a  very  slow 
oven,  and  are  considerably  raised.  Next  to  Lemanns 
biscuits  they  are  the  most  wholesome  with  which  we  are 


CHEESE  CAKES. 


301 


die 


acquainted;  vve  never  see  such  in  London;  they  deserve  a 
place  in  our  biscuit  shops. 

CRACKNELS  do  not  essentially  differ  in  their  compo- 
ition  from  Siveet  Biscuits  above  ;  they  may  be  cut  into 
ny  shapes,  put  upon  tin  plates  rubbed  over  with  butter, 
he  tops  being-  washed  with  whites  of  egg's  and  then  baked 
n  a  brisk  oven. 

ICINGS  FOR  CAKES.  Whisk  half  a  pound  of  fine 
white  lump  sugar  in  powder  with  the  whites  of  ten  eggs, 
'ill  the  whole  becomes  white  and  thick  ;  then  spread  it  with 
bunch  of  feathers  or  a  spatula  over  the  top  and  sides  of 
e  cake  ;  you  may  set  it  before  a  clear  fire,  keeping  it 
turning  till  it  is  dry ;  but  a  slack  oven  is  the  best  for  it. 

CHEESE-CAKES  are  made  of  various  ingredients, 
the  chief  of  which  is  the  curd  obtained  by  mixing  rennet 
With  milk  ;  when  they  are  simple,  they  will  agree  with  the 
Homach  pretty  well ;  but  when  they  consist  of  numerous 
ngredients,  they  partake  of  the  inconveniences  of  many 
other  cakes  and  biscuits.  The  following  is  perhaps  one  of 
die  best  forms  for  them  : 

Turn  a  quart  of  milk  with  some  rennet,*  let  it  stand 
two  hours  ;  then  press  the  curd  from  the  whey  very  dry  ; 
oeat  it  fine  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  two  Naples 
biscuits  soaked  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  well  beaten  ; 
grate  fine  the  outside  rind  of  two  lemons ;  squeeze  out  their 
juice  and  strain  it  upon  the  grated  rind.  Mix  this  with 
die  other  ingredients,  to  which  add  some  sifted  sugar  to  your 
:aste.  Line  the  tins  with  a  puff  paste  and  fill  them  with  the 
above  mixture  ” — Y. 

POTATOE  CHEESE-CAKES.  Beat  well  one  pound 
of  potatoes  (well  boiled  and  freed  from  their  skins)  while 
hot  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  to  which  add  the 
orated  outside  rind  of  three  large  lemons  and  half  a  pound 
of  powdered  lump  sugar.  The  whole  must  be  again  beaten 
until  a  white  froth  appears  on  the  top.  Line  your  tins  with 
a  puff  paste,  fill  them  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. — -Miss  S. 

OTHER  CHEESE  CAKES  may  be  made  of  various 
qualities  thus :  candied  citron,  lemon,  and  orange  peel 
minced  fine,  together  with  blanched  Jordan  almonds  beaten 

*  See  concerning  Rennet  under  Useful  Recipes  forwards. 


302 


CUSTARDS. 


into  a  smooth  paste,  and  then  mixed  with  the  above  in¬ 
gredients. 

LEMON  CHEESE-CAKES  may  be  made  as  above, 
but  the  grated  lemon-peel  must  be  very  predominant. 

In  ALMOND  CHEESE  CAKES  the  Jordan  almonds 
blanched  and  beaten  into  a  smooth  paste  must  be  pre¬ 
dominant. 

BREAD  CHEESE-CAKES  are  made  with  crumb  of 
bread  soaked  in  cream,  poured  on  it  boiling  hot,  for  two  hours, 
to  which  are  added  eggs,  butter,  grated  nutmeg,  and  cur¬ 
rants. 

CUSTARDS  consist  chiefly  of  cream  and  eggs,  or  milk 
and  eggs,  with  various  condiments.  It  is  obvious  that  very 
few  indeed  of  such  mixtures  can  be  wholesome  ;  but  in 
compliance  with  custom  we  must  give  a  few  forms  for 
them. 

BAKED  CUSTARDS  are  usually  directed  to  be  madt!|| 
by  boiling  a  pint  of  cream  with  some  cinnamon  and  mace  ; 
and  when  cold,  mixing  with  it  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of 
eggs,  a  little  rose  and  orange-flower  water,  half  a  glass  of 
sherry,  and  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  your  palate.  Pour  them 
into  cups  and  bake  them. 

Note.  It  would  be  assuredly  better  to  make  the  cream 
only  boiling-hot,  and  add  the  spices,  powdered,  to  the  mix¬ 
ture  ;  or  a  drop  of  oil  of  cinnamon  would  be  much  better, 
and  save  the  trouble  of  the  boiling  altogether. 

ALMOND  CUSTARDS.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  a  bit 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  blade  of  mace  in  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream,  to  which  add  some  grated  lemon-peel,  nutmeg,  and 
sugar,  to  your  taste ;  blanch  and  beat  into  a  smooth  paste 
three  ounces  of  Jordan  and  eight  in  number  of  bitter 
almonds  ;  pulp  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  the  pulp 
to  the  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour 
the  mixture  into  cups  ;  or  it  may  be  baked  in  one  dish,  with 
a  rim  of  puff  paste  around  it. 

PLAIN  CUSTARDS  may  be  made  by  sweetening  with 
sugar  a  quart  of  good  fresh  milk,  then  boiling’  up  with  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  and  mixing  them 
with  the  milk.  They  may  be  baked  in  china  basons  or 
cups ;  or  the  cups  may  be  put  into  a  large  dish  and  have 
boiling  water  poured  around  them  till  the  custards  are  set. 


hr* 


CLARIFIED  SUGAR. —  CREAMS  AND  JAMS.  303 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  CUSTARDS  consist  of  the 
rated  peel  of  the  respective  fruits,  so  that  the  taste  may 
predominate,  and  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar, 
|he  juice  of  the  lemon  or  the  orange,  (the  Seville  is  usually 
preferred,)  and  a  small  quantity  of  brandy.  The  cups  are 
isually  immersed  in  boiling  water,  as  directed  for  plain 
custards.  Wine,  in  pretty  large  quantity,  is  sometimes 
nixed  with  such  custards. 

CLARIFIED  SUGAR.  Dissolve  four  pounds  of  lump 
Sugar  in  two  quarts  of  water;  when  warm,  add  the  whites 
if  three  eggs  beaten  up  with  half  a  pint  of  water.  Set  the 
fixture  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  boiling  take  off  all  the  scum 
which  arises ;  when  it  is  perfectly  clear,  pass  it  through  a 
ine  cloth. 

i  Note  that  this  clarified  sugar  may  be  made  of  a  still 
hicker  consistence  by  further  boiling,  care  being  taken  that 
he  heat  is  gentle,  and  that  the  sugar  does  not  burn.  The 
onfectioners  direct  no  less  than  five  degrees  of  such  sugar : 
he  first  they  call  candy  sugar;  the  next  brown  sugar ; 
he  third  feathered  sugar ;  the  fourth  crackled  sugar; 
,nd  the  fifth  caramel  sugar ;  but  it  is  not  necessary  that 
ve  should  describe  each  of  these. 

SMALL  DEVICES  IN  SUGAR  may  be  thus  made : 
igest  gum  tragacanth  in  rose-water  till  it  becomes  soft ; 
nake  it  into  a  paste  with  powdered  lump  sugar,  which  may 
>e  coloured  with  powders  or  jellies,  as  your  fancy  may 
irect ;  and  which  you  may  also  make  into  any  shape  you 
dease,  taking  care  that  whatever  colouring  matters  you  put 
n  are  not  unwholesome.  You  may  also  have  moulds  made 
if  any  form.  These  devices  are  well  suited  for  the  tops  of 
ced  and  other  cakes.  And  if  you  should  happen  to  be 
wittily  or  poetically  inclined,  some  smart  sentences  on  paper 
aay  be  appended  to  them. 

CREAMS  AND  JAMS  are  in  much  demand  by  the 
luxurious ;  but  those  who  are  prudent  will  be  extremely 
paring  in  the  use  of  such,  for  the  most  part,  unnecessary 
,nd  unwholesome  dishes.  We  shall,  notwithstanding,  select 
i  few  forms  for  those  who  may  desire  them. 

TO  MAKE  A  TRIFLE.  Lay  four  sponge  cakes,  a  quarter 
fa  pound  of  macaroons,  and  two  ounces  of  ratafia  cakes  in 
he  trifle  dish ;  pour  on  them  as  much  sweet  wine  as  they 


304 


CREAMS. 


will  take  up ;  let  it  stand  three  hours  ;  then  make  a  riel 
custard,  and  when  it  is  cold  pour  it  on  the  cakes,  and  let  i 
stand  till  you  make  the  following-  whip :  put  into  a  jug-  hal 
a  pint  of  cream,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  glass  of  sweet  wine 
the  white  of  an  egg,  and  sugar  to  your  taste ;  whisk  tb 
mixture  well,  and  as  the  froth  rises  take  it  off  carefully  witl 
a  spoon  and  lay  it  on  the  top  of  the  custard,  till  the  disl 
looks  full  and  handsome.  If  the  weather  be  cool  it  is  mud 
better  to  make  it  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. — Y. 

HARTSHORN  CREAM.  Boil  four  ounces  of  harts 
horn  shavings  in  three  pints  of  water  to  half  a  pint ;  straii 
it  through  a  jelly  bag,  add  to  it  a  pint  of  cream,  and  let  i 
just  boil  up.  You  may  then  pour  it  into  jelly  glasses,  and 
let  them  stand  till  they  are  cold,  when,  by  dipping  th< 
glasses  into  boiling  water,  they  will  slip  out  whole. 

ICE  CREAM  may  be  prepared  in  many  w'ays  ;  the  fol 
lowing  is  an  old-fashioned  method,  and  is,  perhaps,  as  goo 
as  any  modern  process  : — 

Stone  and  scald  twelve  ripe  apricots ;  let  them  be  beatei 
smooth  in  a  marble  mortar  ;  add  to  them  six  ounces  o 
powdered  lump  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  cream,  made  boilim 
hot;  pass  the  mixture  by  pulping  it  through  a  hair  sieve 
Pour  it  into  a  tin  having  a  close  cover,  and  set  it  in  a  tul 
of  ice  broken  small,  with  a  large  quantity  of  coarse-grainei 
salt  among  it ;  when  the  cream  grows  thick  around  thf 
edges  of  the  tin,  stir  it  and  set  it  in  again  till  it  is  quit* 
thick.  When  the  cream  is  all  frozen  up,  take  it  out  of  tht 
tin  and  put  it  into  the  mould  out  of  which  it  is  to  be  turned 
Put  on  the  lid,  and  have  ready  another  tub,  with  salt  ant 
ice  as  before.  Put  the  mould  in  the  middle,  laying  the  ict 
all  over,  around,  and  under  it,  and  let  it  stand  four  or  fm 
hours.  When  wanted  dip  the  tin  in  warm  water,  and  i; 
may  be  turned  out.  If  in  summer,  it  should  not  be  turner 
out  till  the  moment  it  is  asked  for. 

Note,  that  any  other  fruit  may  be  iced  in  the  saint 
way. 

And  note,  also,  that  ices  thus  prepared  are  for  the 
dyspeptic,  and,  we  may  say,  for  the  generality  of  persons,  ; 
dangerous  and  unwholesome  aliment,  therefore  not  to  bi 
coveted  by  any  one,  how  much  soever  the  luxurious  mar 
choose  to  indulge  in  them : 


CREAMS.  —  RASPBERRY  JAMS. 


305 


“  Count  all  the  pleasure  luxury  thus  attains, 

'Tis  what  the  prudent  flies  from  and  disdains.” 

RASPBERRY  CREAM.  Bruise  ripfe  raspberries,  press 
e  pulp  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  then  add  it  to  cream  well 
pipped  up ;  some  will  mix  with  it  a  little  powdered  lump 

gar. 

'Note,  that  strawberries,  cherries,  gooseberries,  and 
her  ripe  fruits,  may  be  mixed  with  cream  in  the  same 

i  inner. 

A  cream  flavoured  with  the  outside  peel  of  the  lemon  or 
<%nge  beat  into  a  soft  pulp,  may  be  also  made  in  the 
ntne  way  ;  but  some,  instead  of  cream,  beat  up  the  whites 
t  eggs  with  sugar  and  water,  adding  besides  the  outside 
j el,  the  juice  of  the  lemon  or  the  orange;  and  some,  too, 

ii  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten:  the  whole  is,  lastly,  set 
or  the  fire  to  thicken.  A  very  pretty  mess. 

WHIPPED  CREAM.  Put  some  good  cream  into  a 
f  1,  with  a  proper  quantity  of  powdered  lump  sugar,  a  pinch 
c  powdered  gum  tragacanth,  and  a  little  orange  florver 
vter;  whip  the  whole  w’ell  up  with  a  clean  whisp.*  Use 
ilit  your  pleasure. 

Note.  Some  add  eggs  and  wine,  and  some  perfume, 
s  h  as  musk  or  ambergris,  and  some  will  add  a  few  drops  of 
eence  of  lemon  to  it,  or  the  outside  peel  may  be  employed 
iitead. 

(The  French  cookery  books  abound  in  forms  for  such 
cams;  we  shall  not  follow  their  example;  an  intelligent 
e  k  may  make  them  at  her  pleasure,  such  as  those  with 
a  ionds,  with  coffee,  with  tea ;  and  even  with  celery  ; 
b  the  signs  of  D.  A.  D.  are,  in  the  Manuel  de  Cuisinier, 
peed  against  them  all!  beware  of  them,  therefore. 

lASPBERRIf  JAM  is  made  in  several  ways ;  but  the 
bd  is,  perhaps,  the  following  Let  your  fruit  be  perfectly 
’.*i  ■ ,  and  free  from  moisture,  and  from  their  stems  and 
ot|er  impurities  ;  then  beat  them  into  a  pulp  in  a  preserving 
jut,  and  boil  over  a  tolerably  brisk  fire,  constantly  stirring 
t  11  a  considerable  portion  of  the  aqueous  part  of  the  fruit 
)$  vaporated  ;  add  now  the  same  weight  of  good  raw  or 

*  Cuisinier  Royal,  p.  240. 


306 


JAMS. 


lump  sugar  which  you  have  of  fruit,  and  let  the  whole  be 
gently  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  if  the  quantity  be  large. 

In  the  same  way  may  be  made  Strawberry  Jam. 

Of  Raspberries  and  Strawberries,  both  being,  perhap 
the  most  wholesome  of  all  our  summer  fruits,  the  followir 
notices  may  be  acceptable. 

The  RASPBERRY  is  the  fruit  of  the  Rubus  ideeus, 
plant  whose  root  is  perennial  but  the  stalks  biennial.  It 
a  native  of  several  parts  of  England,  chiefly  in  woods  ai 
thickets  ;  but  it  has  been  greatly  improved  by  culture  in  tl 
size,  colour,  and  quality  of  the  fruit,  of  wThich  there  a 
several  varieties.  They  are  readily  propagated  by  sucker; 
new  varieties  may  be  obtained  from  seed :  Loudon  mentioi 
ten  as  already  well  known;  among  these,  the  twice  bearii 
raspberry ,  of  which  there  is  a  white  and  red  kind,  a 
esteemed  from  their  singularity  of  producing  tivo  cro\ 
the  same  year,  one  of  which  ripens  in  July,  the  second 
September  or  October.  The  Large  Antwerp  Red  and  i 
Large  Yellow  Antwerp  are  said  to  be  the  best,  and  deser 
a  wall.  But  very  fine  red,  white,  and  yellow  sorts  can 
obtained  by  very  easy  culture  in  almost  any  soil.  Ras 
berries  are  extensively  used  for  tarts,  jellies,  jams,  &c., 
well  as  for  the  dessert. 

Strawberries  are  the  fruit  of  several  species  or  varied 
of  the  Fragaria,  a  small  creeping  plant,  one  sort  of  whi 
is  found  in  great  plenty  on  dry  banks  and  in  woods, 
various  parts  of  this  country.  It  is  called  Fragaria  vesc 
and  has  a  small  acidulous  fruit,  of  which  most  persons  co 
versant  with  the  country  must  have  often  partaken.  B 
the  best  strawberries  are  those  improved  by  culture  or  o 
tained  from  seed  :  they  are  usually,  however,  propagat 
by  runners.  The  Hautboy,  the  Roseberry,  and  t 
Downton  Strawberry  are  very  much  esteemed.  The  alpir 
the  Fragaria  collina,  is  very  much  esteemed,  it  product; 
fruit  similar  in  taste  to  the  wild  strawberry,  but  larger 
size,  and  which  it  bears  throughout  the  summer,  and  ev 
as  late  as  November.  The  strawberry,  as  well  as  the  ras 
berry,  is  employed  on  numerous  occasions  for  culinary  pi 
poses  ;  but  it  more  often  graces  the  dessert,  of  which  it 
ever  a  very  agreeable  and  wholesome  dish.  The  scar 
strawberry,  Fragaria  virginiana,  a  native  of  Virgini 


JAMS  —  MARMALADES. 


307 


ie  Pine  Strawberry ,  Fragaria  Grandifiora,  a  native 
South  America;  the  Chili  Strawberry,  Fragaria 
' hiloensis ,  a  native  of  Chili,  as  well  as  some  others,  are 
)vv  cultivated  also  in  this  country,  and  more  or  less  es- 
;emed.  Loudon  enumerates  a  dozen  or  more  kinds. 
GOOSEBERPcY  JAM  is  made  with  any  kind  of  ripe 
ooseberries,  and  half  their  weight  of  good  raw  or  lump 
igar ;  let  it  be  treated  in  a  similar  way  to  that  for  rasp- 
erry  jam. 

CURRANT  JAM,  whether  white  or  red,  or  black,  may 
!  made  in  the  same  way  as  raspberry  jam. 

Note.  Care  must  be  taken  in  making  all  such  jams  that 
ey  are  made  sufficiently  thick  by  boiling  to  keep ;  for  if 
ey  should  be  too  thin  they  will  soon  ferment  and  spoil, 
ley  should  be  kept  in  a  very  cool  place,  and  be  well 
cured  from  the  air  by  being  tied  over  with  a  bladder  oi¬ 
lier  prepared  skin. 

Jams  from  other  ripe  fruits  may  be  prepared  in  a 
nilar  way  to  that  directed  for  raspberry  jam  ;  but  note,  that 
'urns,  quinces,  apples,  apricots,  cherries,  &c.  must  be 
dped  through  a  sieve,  and  have  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
ded  to  that  of  the  pulp ;  the  whole  being  boiled  afterwards 
r  some  time,  to  render  it  of  a  uniform  consistence,  and 
ore  proper  for  being  kept. 

In  boiling  jam  some  of  it  should  be  put  out,  from  time  to 
lie,  in  order  that  it  may  cool,  and  that  the  proper  consist- 
ice  be  thus  ascertained ;  it  is  better  to  have  it  too  hard 
an  too  soft. 

Note,  also,  that  Quinces  and  Apples  must  be  boiled  in 
ter  till  they  are  tender  before  they  are  pulped ;  when  the 
gar  is  added  to  them  and  boiled,  they  are  both  usually 
lied  marmalades.  A  marmalade  of  Pears  maybe 
e  in  a  similar  manner.  (See  forwards  under  our 
apter  XIII.  Quince  and  other  Marmalades.) 
CONCLUDING  OBSERVATIONS  ON  JAMS.— 
ere  can  be,  we  believe,  no  doubt  that  fruit  taken  as  food 
the  most  wffiolesome  when  fully  ripe  and  fresh  gathered ; 
d  that  that  which  is  the  most  acidulous  will  be  found  in 
neral  best  to  agree  with  the  stomach  ;  but  as  it  is  impos- 
le  to  preserve  ripe  fruit  in  a  perfect  state  long,  our  cooks 
;d  housewives  have  devised  the  form  of  jams,  in  order  to 


308  JELLIES,  FLUMMERY,  BLANC-MANGES. 

give  us  the  flavour  of  the  fruit  when  the  season  of  its  ripe 
mg-  has  a  long-  time  passed  away;  sugar  is,  therefore,  t 
all  preserving  commodity;  but  it  will  be  found  genera! 
that  the  more  sugar  is  added  to  the  jam,  the  more  the  pec 
liar  flavour  of  the  fruit  will  be  destroyed,  and  the  jam,  l 
sides,  will  be  rendered  generally  more  unwholesome.  T 
less  sugar,  therefore,  is  employed  in  the  making-  of  jan 
provided  it  be  sufficient  to  preserve  them,  the  better  w 
they,  on  every  account,  be;  indeed  the  juices  of  some  fn 
may  be  made  into  jams  without  the  addition  of  any  sug; 
provided  they  be  boiled  down  pretty  stiff. 

JELLIES,  BLANC-MANGES,  SYLLABUBS,  &c. 
Jellies  are  of  two  kinds ;  one  of  which  the  constituent 
gelatine,  obtained  from  most  animals,  and  largely  frc 
fish,  isinglass  being  almost  pure  gelatine ;  from  hartshor 
shavings,  &c.  See  our  Chapter  on  Boiling,  passvA 
particularly  page  12,  and  also  the  Introduction.  The  ot)i 
kind  of  jellies  obtained  from  ripe  fruits  consists  chiefly 
mucilage,  sugar,  and  an  acid;  these  last  are  by  no  mea 
so  wholesome  or  nutricious  as  the  jellies  the  chief  ingredie 
of  which  is  gelatine  ;  this  last  being  completely  soluble 
water,  and  may  be  again  and  again  with  care  reduced 
boiling  or  otherwise  drying  it,  to  a  solid  state,  as  we  hn 
it  in  ising-lass  and  common  glue. 

YELLOW  FLUMMERY.  Boil  two  ounces  of  isingk 
in  a  pint  and  half  of  water  till  it  is  dissolved,  then  add 
pint  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of  three  and  the  outside  ri 
of  two  lemons,  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs  well  beaten,  and  sup 
to  your  taste.  Mix  the  whole  together,  and  set  it  on  t 
fire  till  it  boils,  stirring  it  continually.  Strain  it  into 
bason,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  almost  cold;  then  put  it  into  t 
moulds. — Y. 

BLANC-MANGES.  The  essential  ingredients  of  the 
are  gelatine  and  milk,  with  the  addition  of  various  com 
ments ;  sometimes,  however,  a  milk  of  almonds,  see  pa; 
310,  is  employed  instead  of  cow’s  milk;  and  sometim 
bitter  almonds  are  employed  to  impart  their  particul 
flavour  ;  and  occasionally  laurel  leaves  in  their  stead  ;  but 
is  scarcely  necessary  for  us  to  say  that  we  strongly  disa 
prove  of  those  last.  The  following  forms  will  be  sufficie 
for  the  cook  to  prepare  all  such  luxuries. 


BLANC-MANGE. — JELLIES. 


309 


Add  to  a  quart  of  new  milk  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  a  small 
ick  of  cinnamon,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  six  bitter  almonds, 
anched  and  beaten  into  a  paste  ;  simmer  the  whole  over 
e  fire  till  the  isinglass  is  dissolved,  and  strain  it  into  a 
Ison ;  let  it  stand  for  ten  minutes,  skim  it,  and  pour  it 
mtly  from  all  the  sediment  into  another  bason ;  when  it 
jgins  to  congeal,  stir  it  well  and  fill  the  shapes. 

Or,  dissolve  by  boiling  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  pint 
id  a  quarter  of  water,  so  that  when  the  solution  is  com- 
ete  it  may  measure  a  pint;  then  add  the  whites  of  four 
;gs,  with  two  spoonsful  of  rice-water  to  prevent  the  eggs 
am  coagulating  ;  sugar  it  to  the  palate,  and  add  such 
her  condiments  as  you  please.  Strain  the  whole  through 
jelly-bag  into  a  bason ;  when  cool  cut  it  into  what  shapes 
>u  please,  and  garnish  with  flowers,  &c. 

A  more  simple  and  wholesome  blanc-inange  may  be  thus 
ade ;  dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  pint  of  water  by 
filing,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  good  new  milk  to  it;  you 
ay  add  what  condiments  you  please ;  the  less  sugar  the 
:tter  for  the  dyspeptic;  one  drop  of  oil  of  cinnamon  will 
ivour  it  elegantly;  or  you  may  dissolve  the  isinglass  by 
mmering  it  gently  in  a  pint  or  more  of  milk;  care,  bow¬ 
er,  must  be  taken  to  prevent  the  milk  from  burning. 

A  DUTCH  BLANC-MANGE.  Mix  the  yolks  of  six 
;'gs  with  a  pint  of  warm  and  clear  calves’  feet  jelly;  set  it 
fer  the  fire,  and  whisk  it  till  it  begins  to  boil.  Set  the 
in  in  cold  water,  and  stir  the  mixture  till  nearly  cold  to 
■event  its  coagulating ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  put  it 
to  the  shapes. 

CALVES’  FEET  JELLY.  Cut  scalded  calves’  feet  into 
eces,  and  boil  them  gently  for  several  hours  in  water  suffi- 
ent  to  cover  them  ;  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  the  next  day 
hen  it  is  completely  cold,  take  off  all  the  fat,  and  wash  the 
lly  in  warm  water  to  make  it  perfectly  clean.  Put  it  now 
to  a  stewpan,  and  dissolve  it  over  the  fire,  adding  such 
indiments  to  it  as  you  may  choose,  such  as  lemon  or 
eville  orange  juice,  white  wine,  sugar,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel, 
nnamon,  &c.  whisk  up  with  it  some  whites  of  eggs,  and 
fil  it  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  taking  off 
ie  skum;  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag  till  it  becomes  quite 
fight.  When  nearly  cold  fill  your  shapes  with  it.  The 


310 


JELLIES. 


cook  will  not  forget  that  this  jelly  is  not  essentially  differer 
from  one  made  with  isinglass  or  hartshorn  shavings,  an 
having  similar  condiments. 

HARTSHORN  JELLY.  Boil  half  a  pound  of  hart' 
horn-shavings  in  three  quarts  of  water  till  all  the  jelly  i 
extracted  from  them ;  strain  it  while  hot  into  a  saucepar 
and  add  to  it  a  pint  of  Rhenish  or  Sherry  wine  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Froth  the  whites  of  fou 
eggs,  and  mix  them  with  the  jelly ;  boil  it  for  a  few  minute; 
and  then  add  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lemons  ;  boil  agair 
and  when  curdled  pour  it  through  a  jelly-bag  several  time 
till  it  is  quite  clear.  You  may  add  what  other  condiment 
to  it  you  choose,  and  then  fill  your  jelly-glasses  with  it. 

Note,  that  these  are  the  usual  directions  given  in  cooker 
books  for  making  hartshorn  jelly  ;  but  it  will  be  assured! 
better  to  add  the  wine  to  it  after  the  jelly  is  clarified  :  hm 
the  jelly  is  to  be  improved  by  boiling  the  wine  with  it,  v 
cannot  divine;  its  purest  and  best  parts  must  be  in  gres 
measure  dissipated  by  the  boiling  and  straining. 

FRENCH  FLUMMERY  is  made  by  dissolving  an  ounc 
of  isinglass  by  simmering  it  in  a  quart  of  cream  ;  then  add 
ing  a  little  orange-flower  and  rose-water  to  it. 

ORANGE  JELLY  and  LEMON  JELLY  are  made  b 
adding  to  hartshorn  jelly  a  considerable  quantity  of  th 
sliced  outside  peels  so  as  to  flavour  it  strongly,  and  also  th 
expressed  juices  of  the  respective  fruits;  you  may  ad> 
cloves  and  other  condiments  at  your  pleasure. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY.  Put  ripe  red  currants 
freed  from  the  stalks  and  other  impurities,  and  bruised  wit 
a  wooden  spoon,  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  make  then 
scalding  hot,  stirring  them  to  prevent  their  burning  ;  pres 
out  all  their  juice  gently,  and  pass  it  through  a  flannel  bag 
to  every  pint  of  which  add  fourteen  ounces  of  good  sugar 
boil  it  and  skim  it  wTell,  and  reduce  it  to  a  proper  thickness 
which  may  be  known  by  setting  a  little  of  it  in  a  cold  place 
or  in  a  saucer  placed  in  cold  water. 

BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY  is  made  in  a  similar  wa^ 
to  the  preceding ;  but  it  is  usual,  as  the  juice  is  more  viscid 
to  add  four  ounces  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit  when  i 
is  scalded. 

WHITE  CURRANT  JELLY  requires  double  refine; 


gar  in  its  preparation,  which  is  otherwise  made  the  same 
currant  jelly. 


JELLIES  from  OTHER  RIPE  FRUITS  may  be  all  made 
a  similar  way  to  the  currant  jellies.  The  French  favour 
s  with  jellies  from  very  many  of  their  rich  fruits,  but  it 
not  necessary  that  we  should  describe  them  ;  they  have 
le  which  they  call  jelly  of  four  fruits:*  namely, 
aspberries,  Strawberries,  Cherries,  and  Gooseberries ; 
id  those  who  are  curious  in  such  trifles  may  make  it  if 
ley  choose ;  we  dare  say  that  it  is  an  agreeable  one. 

MILK  OF  ALMONDS  may  be  made  in  various  ways  ; 
^ttheP/jar.  Londmensis  calls  it  mixture  of  almonds, 
id  directs  it  to  be  made  thus  :  take  of  the  confection  of 
\monds  two  ounces  ;  of  distilled  water,  (or,  if  not  to  be 
itained,  very  pure  rain  or  river  water  may  be  used  in  its 
lijead)  one  pint.  Add  the  water  gradually,  by  rubbing,  to 
ie  confection  of  almonds,  until  they  are  well  mixed  ;  then 


fijrain. 

CONFECTION  OF  ALMONDS  is  thus  ordered  to 
3  made  in  the  same  Pharmacopoeia .  Take  one  ounce  of 
veet  almonds  ;  one  drachm  of  bruised  gum  arabic ;  and 
ilf  an  ounce  of  lump  sugar.  The  almonds  must  be  first 
anched,  and  then,  wTith  the  gum  arabic  and  the  sugar, 
:aten  into  a  smooth  paste. 

Note  that  we  prefer  giving  these  directions  for  milk  of 
Imonds  to  any  others  which  may  be  found  in  our  cookery 
loks,  believing  it  to  be  the  best ;  the  confection  of  almonds 
ling  always  kept  ready  made,  the  milk  may  be  made  at 
ly  time. 

OF  ALMONDS  generally  we  may  add  here  that  they 
re  the  kernels  of  the  fruit  of  a  tree,  the  Amygdalus 
ommunis,  a  native  of  Syria  and  Barbary;  it  has  been  cul- 
vated  in  this  country  since  the  year  1562.  The  almonds 
itained  in  commerce  are  brought  from  various  places  border- 
ig  on  the  Mediterranean  ;  those  called  Jordan  almonds 
re  esteemed  the  best ;  but  Valentia  almonds  are,  when 
resh,  very  good  ;  they  are  brought  to  the  table  with  raisins 
s  a  dessert ;  they  yield  also  a  considerable  portion  of  a  bland 
iveet  oil,  which  does  not  congeal  by  cold  as  olive  oil  does. 


*  LeCuisinier  Parisien,  par  Careme,  page  217. 


312 


SYLLABUBS. 


Almonds  contain,  there  is  no  doubt,  a  considerable  portion  < 
nutritive  matter,  yet,  unless  they  are  well  masticated,  o 
if  eaten  in  large  quantity,  they  are  not  a  wholesome  viand 

BITTER  ALMONDS  are  obtained  from  a  variety  c 
the  Amy gdalus  communis  ;  the  oil  of  almonds  obtaine 
in  the  shops  is  produced  chiefly  from  bitter  almonds,  o 
account  of  their  cheapness  ;  the  bitter  principle  residing  i 
the  skins  and  the  cake  after  the  oil  is  expressed.  Fror 
almonds,  particularly  from  bitter  almonds,  a  considerabl 
portion  of  prussic  acid  may  be  obtained  ;  a  distilled  wate 
from  them  is  very  pernicious.  From  this  account  of  al 
monds  the  reader  will  not  suppose  that  we  estimate  them  a 
food  very  highly.  See  Liqueurs  forwards. 

SYLLABUBS  are  defined  by  Dr.  Johnson  to  be  curd 
made  by  milking  upon  vinegar  ;  they  are,  however,  essen 
tially  composed  of  some  acid  and  new  milk  or  cream,  wit 
spirituous  and  other  condiments.  The  reader  will,  then 
fore,  anticipate  no  very  wholesome  dish  from  any  of  thes 
luxuries. 

A  SYLLABUB  UNDER  THE  COW.  Put  into 
punch  bowl  a  quart  of  good  cider  or  strong  beer,  (som 
will  use  both)  grate  to  it  some  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  wit 
sugar  ;  then  milk  from  the  cow  as  much  milk  as  will  inak 
a  good  froth.  Let  it  stand  an  hour,  strew  in  a  few  cur 
rants  washed  and  well  soaked,  and  it  will  be  ready  fo 
being  served  up. 

Instead  of  cider  or  beer  some  employ  wine,  and  add 
besides  the  milk,  some  clotted  cream,  cinnamon,  &c. 

ANOTHER  SYLLABUB.  Add  to  a  pint  and  a  hal 
of  cream  a  pint  of  good  wine,  a  gill  of  brandy,  some  suga; 
and  lemon  juice;  whisk  the  whole  well,  and  take  off  tli 
froth  wTith  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  on  a  sieve,  fill  the  glasse 
three  parts  full  with  the  liquor,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  if 
and  put  the  froth  over  the  tops. 

A  WHIPPED  SYLLABUB.  Rub  a  piece  of  lum] 
sugar  on  the  outside  of  a  lemon ;  put  it  into  a  pint  o 
cream,  sweeten  it  to  your  pleasure,  and  add  the  juice  of  ; 
lemon,  a  glass  of  good  wine  or  French  brandy,  and  beat  i 
into  a  froth,  taking  it  off  as  it  rises,  and  lay  it  on  a  hai 
sieve  to  drain  ;  fill  some  glasses  half  full  with  white,  other 
with  red  wine,  and  lay  on  the  froth  as  high  as  possible. 


5 


FRUMENTY.  313 

Note,  a  chocolate  mill  is  generally  employed  for  making- 
whipped  syllabub. 

OTHER  SYLLABUBS  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way, 
and  flavoured  with  what  you  choose,  such  as  a  considerable 
quantity  of  the  outside  of  lemon-peel,  Seville  oranges, 
&c.  &c. 

But  we  have  said  quite  enough  concerning  these  unwhole¬ 
some  mixtures.  There  is,  however,  one  other  dish,  a 
favourite  in  the  West  of  England,  of  which  we  must  be 
permitted  to  say  a  word,  and  that  is  called 

FRUMENTY  or  FIRM1TY.  It  consists  essentially  of 
grains  of  wheat  boiled  till  they  are  tender,  and  then  mixed 
with  milk  or  cream,  currants,  and  other  condiments,  into 
a  thick  pap.  Various  directions  are  given  for  this  article 
in  the  books  ;  but  they  are  all  too  complex,  and  most  of 
them  very  unwholesome.  In  Bristol  the  wheat  is  brought 
to  the  market  already  prepared  by  the  farmers,  so  that 
much  of  the  trouble  attendant  on  this  dish  is  saved  to  the 
cook.  If,  however,  any  one  should  be  desirous  of  making 
iit  throughout,  the  process  is  thus  to  be  carried  on.  Take 
some  good  plump  grains  of  wheat,  and  soak  them  in  water 
for  several  hours,  when  they  will  have  swollen,  and  the  scarf 
skin  with  which  the  grain  is  enveloped  may  be  rolled  oil 
with  a  coarse  cloth,  or,  otherwise,  by  beating  the  grain. 
When  the  wheat  is  thus  freed  from  the  scarf  skin  it  must 
be  boiled  in  water  till  it  is  tender  :  this  process  will  require 
several  hours,  depending  upon  the  quantity  of  the  wheat. 
When  your  wheat  has  arrived  at  the  state  mentioned,  it 
may  be  mixed  with  milk,  currants,  sugar  to  your  palate, 
|md  some  spice,  such  as  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  or  cloves  ;  you 
may,  if  you  choose,  add  cream  to  it ;  but  this  w-e  do  not 
idvise ;  nor  do  we  recommend  either  eggs  or  almonds,  both 
>f  w’hich  are  sometimes  employed. 

Note,  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  that  upon  the 
vheat  being  well  boiled  depends  the  wholesomeness  of  this 
lish  ;  for  if  it  be  incompletely  boiled,  it  will  be  more  un- 
vholesome  than  an  incompletely  boiled  pudding,  of  which 
lour  constitutes  the  chief  ingredient. 


p 


314 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

PRESERVES  AND  CANDIES;  BONBONS  AND  PASTILS; 
CONSERVES,  COMPOTES,  AND  SYRUPS. 


A  warning  voice  still  cries.  Beware! 

Of  Bonbons,  Pastils,  liave  a  care. 
Wliate'er  may  Fashion,  Fancy  strike. 

In  Candies,  Compotes,  or  the  like. 

Let  Prudence  from  the  crowd  select ; — 
A  Gooseberry  or  a  Plum  preserve. 

If  simple,  may  the  table  serve — 

But  most  the  Lady  will  reject. 

Your  pardon.  Babies  !  great  and  small; 
Our  duty  prompts  this  warning  call  ! 


General  Observations.  Attend  to  what  is  said  in 
regard  to  the  preparation  of  Jams  in  the  last  chapter.  In 
preserving  fruit  the  best  rule  is  to  use  only  sufficient  sugar 
to  keep  it  from  fermenting,  and,  consequently,  from  spoil¬ 
ing  ;  too  much  sugar  will  be  sure  to  detract  from  the 
peculiar  taste  of  the  fruit,  wdiich  it  ought  always  to  be  your 
object  as  much  as  possible  to  preserve. 

All  preserved  fruits  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  in 
which  there  is,  at  all  times,  little  or  no  variation  in  the 
temperature  ;  they  should  be  besides  well  secured  from  the 
access  of  air,  either  by  being  put  into  well  corked  vessels, 
or  in  having  a  bladder  skin  tied  closely  over  them.  With¬ 
out  such  precautions  they  will  assuredly  not  keep  ;  instead 
of  these,  some  recommend  melted  mutton  suet  to  be  poured 
over  them  ;  but,  if  this  be  done,  they  ought,  nevertheless, 
to  lie  additionally  secured  from  the  air  by  corks  or  bladder 
skins.  Some  of  the  cookery  books  direct  dried  sweetmeats 
to  be  kept  tied  down  merely  with  paper  soaked  in  brandy ; 
but  it  is  far  better  to  cover  them  with  bladder  skin ;  ex¬ 
posed  to  the  air  they  absorb  moisture  from  it,  and  from  the 
altering  temperature  they  soon  become  injured,  if  not 


PRESERVES. 


315 


* 

spoiled  :  paper,  be  it  remembered,  will  not  wholly  prevent 
the  access  of  air. 

GOOSEBERRIES  are  preserved  for  puddings,  pies, 
and  tarts  in  several  ways ;  some  will  preserve  them  when 
ripe,  by  scalding  them  in  a  syrup  made  with  raw  or  lump 
sugar,  and,  when  they  are  cold,  cork  them  up  with  the 
syrup,  in  bottles  or  jars,  and  set  them  by  in  a  cool  place. 
But  the  simplest  and  best  way  is  the  following. 

Take  full  grown,  but  unripe,  red  gooseberries,  gathered 
in  dry  weather,  and  freed  from  the  tops  and  tails,  and  put 
them  into  open  mouthed  glass  bottles  ;  shake  them  down 
1  gently  till  they  are  quite  full,  and  then  cork  them  well ; 
boil  them  in  a  water-bath  till  the  gooseberries  have  sunk 
down  so  as  to  indicate  that  they  are  thoroughly  scalded ; 
an  hour  or  more  will  be  necessary :  when  they  are  cool  cut 
oft’  the  corks  close  to  the  top  of  the  bottles,  and  pour  melted 
resin  or  wax  over  them  so  as  to  exclude  effectually  the  air. 
Keep  them  in  a  very  cool  place. 

Note,  some,  instead  of  a  water-bath,  will  put  the  bottles 
into  a  slack  oven.  Some  order  water  to  be  put  with  the 
gooseberries  into  the  bottle  ;  but  this  is  a  bad  practice. 

CURRANTS,  and  a  few  other  fruits,  such  as  cherries, 
may  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner  as  gooseberries.  For 
the  preservation  of  R  aspberries  and  Strawberries. 
See  Raspberry  Jam,  page  305. 

CURRANTS  may  also  be  preserved  by  scalding  them  in 
a  syrup  made  with  good  raw  sugar. 

DAMSONS  and  many  other  plums  may  be  preserved 
thus:  let  them  be  ripe  and  dry;  put  them  into  ajar  tied 
!  over  with  coarse  paper,  and  place  them  in  an  oven  very 
moderately  heated  ;  when  they  have  been  in  the  oven  about 
two  hours,  let  them  be  taken  out,  and  when  cold  put  into 
wide-mouthed  bottles  or  jars  well  secured  by  corks  from  the 
air,  and  set  them  by  in  a  cool  place. 

Or  they  may  be  treated  as  gooseberries  above,  by  boiling 
I  the  bottles,  in  which  they  are  to  be  kept,  in  a  water-bath. 

The  larger  kind  of  plums  will  be,  however,  best 
preserved  by  being  scalded  in  a  strong  syrup  made  with 
good  raw  sugar,  then  put  into  bottles,  and,  when  cold, 
well  corked  and  resined  or  waxed  over:  the  syrup  in  which 

p  2 


316 


MARMALADES. 


they  have  been  scalded  must  be  poured  into  the  bottles  with 
them. 

MORELLO  CHERRIES  may  be  scalded  in  a  syrup 
made  of  lump  or  good  raw  sugar,  and,  wrhen  cold,  be  bot¬ 
tled  with  the  syrup  in  the  same  way  that  we  have  directed 
for  the  larger  kind  of  plums  above. 

MULBERRIES  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as 
Morello  Cherries.  See  the  last  article. 

QUINCES,  being-  perfectly  ripe,  must  be  pared,  cored, 
cut  into  quarters  or  less,  and  scalded  in  a  little  water,  till 
they  are  tender ;  when  they  are  cold  make  a  strong  syrup 
of  good  lump  sugar,  which  must  be  boiled  and  well 
skimmed.  Put  the  quinces  into  the  syrup  and  boil  them 
in  it  for  ten  minutes.  When  cold  pour  off  the  syrup  and 
boil  it  down  to  a  tolerably  thick  consistence ;  then  put  in 
the  quinces  again  and  boil  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
more.  When  the  whole  is  cold,  put  it  into  proper  jars  well 
corked.  Set  it  by  in  a  cool  place. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE.  The  quinces  must  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner  as  for  preserving,  (see  the 
last  article;)  and  when  they  are  become  thoroughly  tender 
by  boiling,  they  must  be  pulped  through  a  hair-sieve,  and 
the  pulp  boiled  gently  with  the  syrup  till  it  becomes  tole¬ 
rably  thick,  care  being  taken,  by  continual  stirring,  to 
prevent  its  burning.  When  it  is  cold  put  it  into  proper  pots, 
and  let  it  be  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

PEACHES  AND  APRICOTS  may  be  preserved  in 
the  same  manner  as  that  described  for  the  larger  kind  of 
plums ,  which  see.  Some  will  take  out  the  stones  of  wall 
fruit  before  putting  them  to  the  syrup;  and  it  is,  perhaps, 
the  best  way,  care  being  taken  to  preserve,  as  much  as 
possible,  the  form  of  the  respective  fruits. 

A  MARMALADE  OF  PEACHES,  APRICOTS,  &c. 
is  made  in  a  similar  way  to  that  directed  for  quinces. 

MARMALADE  OF  APPLES  or  PEARS  is  made  in 
a  similar  way  to  that  of  quinces. 

AN  ORANGE  MARMALADE  is  made  with  the 
strained  pulp  and  juice  of  Seville  oranges,  boiled  down 
with  sugar  to  a  thick  consistence,  adding  towards  the  end 
of  the  operation  some  of  the  outside  peel  grated  fine  and 


CAN  DIES. 


317 


afterwards  beaten  into  a  pulp,  which  is  the  surest  way  of 
obtaining  the  genuine  flavour  of  the  orange-peel.  Some 
will,  however,  cut  the  peel  of  the  oranges  in  half,  so  that 
the  halves  may  be  taken  from  them  by  the  assistance  of  a 
dessert  spoon ;  when  the  peels  are  thus  separated  they  are 
boiled  in  water  for  some  hours,  the  vessel  being  closely 
covered.  The  outside  skins  containing  the  flavour  must  be 
then  separated  from  the  interior  parts,  and  cut  into  shreds 
or  minced,  and  added  to  the  pulp,  juice,  and  syrup,  and 
boiled  altogether  till  it  becomes  transparent. 

Note.  Our  first  process  is  decidedly  the  best.  But  we 
have  not  much  to  say  in  favour  of  any  of  these  marma¬ 
lades. 

CANDIES.  All  fruits  before  thev  are  candied  must  be 
|  first  preserved,  and  then  dried  in  a  stove  or  before  a  fire, 
so  that  none  of  the  syrup  may  remain  in  them  in  a  liquid 
or  moist  state.  The  sugar  employed  for  them  must  be 
boiled  down  to  what  is  called  candy  height ,  see  page  303. 
The  fruit  must  be  dipped  in  it,  and  then  be  laid  in  dishes 
in  the  stove  to  dry. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  CHIPS.  Pare  the  outside  peel 
of  Seville  oranges  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  broad  or  less; 
let  them  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  twenty  four  hours, 
then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  water  till  they  are 
tender ;  drain  them  in  a  sieve,  and  then  boil  them  in  a 
syrup  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart  of  water  to  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  till  the  liquor  become  clear;  next  boil 
them  in  another  syrup,  made  with  fine  lump  sugar  and  as 
much  water  as  will  dissolve  it  to  a  candy  height,  Take 
them  out,  lay  them  on  a  sieve,  grate  fine  lump  sugar  over 
them,  and  set  them  to  dry. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  AND  LEMON  PEEL.  Soak 
the  peels  in  salt  and  water  for  two  days;  then  scald  them, 
drain  them  dry,  and  boil  them  in  a  thin  syrup  (made  as 
directed  in  the  last  article)  till  they  become  clear.  Put 
them  now  into  a  thick  syrup  made  with  fine  sugar,  and 
simmer  till  the  sugar  candies  about  the  peels.  Lay  them 
separately  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  strew  sugar  over  them, 
and  dry  them  in  a  slack  oven  or  stove. 

A  ZEST  OF  CHINA  OR  OTHER  ORANGE. 
Pare  the  outside  rind  very  thin  or  let  it  be  grajted ;  strew 


318 


DRIED  FRUITS —BONBONS. 


over  it  as  much  fine  powdered  sugar  as  its  own  moisture 
will  take  up  ;  dry  it  in  a  stove  or  oven,  moderately  heated. 

CANDIED  GINGER.  To  an  ounce  of  finely  grated 
ginger,  add  one  pound  of  powdered  lump  sugar  and  as 
much  water  as  will  dissolve  it  in  a  tossing  pan,  which  keep 
over  a  very  slow  fire  till  the  sugar  begins  to  boil,  then 
stir  in  another  pound  of  sugar,  and  keep  stirring  till  it 
becomes  thick.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  drop  it  into 
cakes  upon  earthen  dishes ;  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry  ;  they  will  be  white,  hard,  and  brittle. 

Note,  that  this  preparation  is  of  about  as  much  impor¬ 
tance  as  the  preserved  ginger  root  of  the  shops  which  is 
imported  from  the  West  Indies ;  we  do  not  recommend 
either  of  them;  ginger,  as  a  condiment,  is  best  in  powder 
without  any  sugar. 

DRIED  DAMSONS.  They  should  be  gathered  when 
completely  ripe,  spread  upon  a  coarse  cloth,  and  put  into  a 
very  slack  oven  for  some  days  till  they  are  dry.  Keep  them 
from  the  air  in  a  dry  and  cool  place. 

DRIED  GREEN  GAGE  PLUMS.  Let  them  be 
thoroughly  ripe,  and  slit  them  down  the  seam ;  then  keep 
them  in  a  scalding  hot  thin  syrup  till  they  are  tender. 
When  they  are  cool  drain  them  from  the  syrup  and  put  them 
into  another  made  thus :  to  one  pound  of  fine  lump  sugar  put 
an  ounce  of  water ;  set  it  over  the  fire  and  boil  it  almost  to 
a  candy.  Set  them  on  the  fire  till  they  become  scalded 
and  clear;  then  put  them  out  into  a  bowl,  and  in  a  few 
days  lay  them  on  proper  dishes,  and  dry  them  in  a  stove, 
turning  them  every  day. 

APRICOTS  AND  PEACLIES,  after  being  stoned, 
may  be  dried  in  the  same  manner  as  Green  Gages : 
Morello  Cherries  may  also  be  dried  in  a  similar  way. 

NUT  BONBONS.  Blanch  in  the  usual  way  a  pound 
of  Spanish  or  other  good  nuts,  then  grate  them  very  fine  ; 
mix  with  the  grated  nuts  a  pound  of  powdered  lump  sugar ; 
melt  the  mixture  in  a  stewpan  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it 
continually  till  the  ingredients  are  perfectly  incorporated : 
then  pour  it  out  on  a  tin  plate,  roll  it  quickly  with  a  rolling- 
pin,  and  cut  it  into  what  forms  you  please. 

ALMOND  BONBONS  are  made  in  a  similar  way  to 
the  preceding. 


BONBONS— PASTILS — CONSERVES.  319 

LEMON  or  ORANGE  BONBONS  are  made  by  merely 
i  mixing  the  grated  outside  peel  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
|  treating  it  the  same  as  for  other  bonbons. 

LEMON  PASTILS.  To  half  a  pound  of  powdered 
lump  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lemons,  and 
make  the  mixture  into  a  paste  somewhat  thick,  that  it  may 
be  taken  up  with  a  knife.  Drop  it  upon  paper  into  round 
or  flat  drops  about  the  size  of  a  sixpence,  and  set  them  in  a 
stove  moderately  heated  to  dry :  some  will  grate  over  them 
after  they  are  dried,  a  little  of  the  outside  of  the  lemon- 
I  peel.  & 

RASPBERRY  PASTILS  are  made  with  the  juice  of 
raspberries  and  sugar,  in  a  similar  way  to  the  preceding. 
Currant  and  other  Pastils  may  be  also  thus  prepared. 

RATAFIA  PASTILS  may  be  made  either  with  apricot 
kernels  or  with  equal  parts  of  bitter  and  sweet  almonds  and 
sugar.  The  kernels  and  almonds  must  be,  of  course,  pre¬ 
viously  blanched. 

CONSERVES  are  fruits  and  other  vegetables  preserved 
with  sugar,  sometimes  by  merely  beating  them  together 
into  a  mass,  at  others  by  gentle  boiling  :  they  belong  rather 
to  medicine  than  to  cookery. 

CONSERVE  OF  RED  ROSES  is  made  by  taking 
the  unexpanded  flower-buds  of  the  Rosa  Rubra ,  the  French 
or  red  rose  well  known  in  our  gardens,  plucking  off  the 
heels  of  the  buds,  and  then  cutting  off  the  -white  portion  of 
the  flower  leaves,  freeing  them  from  the  seeds,  and 
beating  them  into  a  paste  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  twice 
their  weight  of  powdered  lump  sugar. 

Note,  in  the  large  way  conserve  of  roses  is  prepared  by 
grinding  the  rose-buds  in  a  wooden  mill,  peculiarly  con¬ 
structed  for  the  purpose,  which  saves  the  labour  of  beating 
them  in  a  mortar. 

Many  other  conserves  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way  to 
that  of  roses,  as  of  the  outside  rind  of  the  Seville  orange 
grated  fine. 

CONSERVES  OF  RIPE  FRUITS.  These,  when 
perfectly  ripe,  must  be  made  warm,  and  the  pulp  be  ob¬ 
tained  from  them  by  forcing  it  through  a  hair  sieve.  About 
equal  parts  of  sugar  and  pulp  will  be  in  general  a  proper 
proportion  for  them;  but  it  will  be  advisable  to  reduce 


320 


CONSERVES  —  COMPOTES. 


such  conserves  by  boiling  to  a  thick  consistence,  or  they 
will  not  keep  well.  Conserve  of  hips  is  thus  pre¬ 
pared. 

Apples,  Pears ,  and  Quinces  should  be  boiled  till  they 
are  tender  before  they  are  pulped  to  be  made  into  a  con¬ 
serve. 

Note,  that  all  conserves  should  be  kept  from  the  air  and 
in  a  cool  place. 

COMPOTES  are  stewed  fruits  ;  they  are  usually  pre¬ 
pared  with  sugar.  They  are  decidedlv  French  dishes, 
with  which  their  cookery  and  cookery  books  abound.  There 
is  scarcely  a  fruit  in  France  which  has  not  been  occasionally 
converted  into  a  compote.  Green  almonds,  green  apricots, 
gooseberries,  chestnuts,  raspberries,  cherries,  oranges, 
^rc  SfC.,  are  converted  into  compotes;  the  English  do  not 
deal  much  in  such  articles  ;  there  is  one,  however,  well 
known,  which  we  call 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL,  or  a  Compote  of  Gooseber¬ 
ries,  which  i^  made  in  various  ways,  but  the  following  we 
recommend :  the  fruit  being  picked,  must  be  putinto  ajar  with 
a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  kept  in  a  boiling  water  bath  till 
it  becomes  tender ;  force  the  pulp  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
mix  half  its  weight  or  more  of  raw  sugar  with  it,  then 
make  the  mixture  scalding  hot.  Or  you  may,  instead  of 
pulping  the  gooseberries  wrhen  they  are  stewed  till  they  are 
tender,  beat  them  up  well  with  half  their  weight  of  raw 
sugar,  and  then  boil  the  compote  for  a  few  minutes. 
When  it  is  cold,  put  it  into  your  pots  and  keep  them  in  a 
cool  place. 

Note,  that  the  curious  in  gooseberry  fool  are  not  con¬ 
tented  with  this  simple  compote  ;  they  add  to  it  spices,  lemon- 
peel,  new  milk,  and  cream;  and  sometimes  eggs:  but 
none  of  these  do  we  recommend. 

COMPOTE  OF  CHERRIES.  Let  your  cherries  be 
ripe  and  good  ;  pick  off  the  stems  and  soak  them  in  cold 
water;  drain  them,  and  then  put  them  into  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  strong  syrup ;  boil  for  some  minutes  ;  take  off 
the  scum  ;  and  when  they  are  cold,  put  them  into  your 
compote  pot. 

Note,  that  half  a  pound  of  sugar  is  usually  necessary  to 
a  pound  of  fruit. 


COMPOTES  —  SYRUPS  —  CAPILLATRE.  321 


COMPOTES  OF  RASPBERRIES  and  GOOSE¬ 
BERRIES  maybe  also  made  in  the  same  manner  as  that  of 
cherries. 

COMPOTES  OF  PEACHES  and  APRICOTS  are 


also  made  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  of  cherries,  except 
that  they  are  not  left  on  the  fire  so  long.* 

COMPOTE  OF  PEARS.  Put  your  pears  in  water 
and  set  them  over  the  fire,  in  order  that  you  may  peel  them, 
more  readily ;  after  which  cut  them  into  quarters,  and  put 
them  into  cold  water  to  prevent  their  turning  black  ;  blanch 
ithem  in  boiling  water,  and  plunge  them  again  into  cold 
water ;  clarify  and  boil  some  sugar  into  a  thick  syrup,  into 
which  put  your  pears  well  drained  ;  then  put  them  into 
your  compote  jar,  add  some  lemon  peel  to  them,  and  pour 
the  syrup  over  them. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES  is  made  in  a  similar  way  to 
,he  compote  of  pears,  but  a  little  more  sugar  is  employed. 

Note ,  that  all  the  preceding  compotes,  except  goose¬ 
berry  fool,  are  from  the  Manuel  de  Cuisinier  of  Cardelli ; 
ind  all  are  marked  by  him  B,  that  is  good, 
i  COMPOTES  OF  OTHER  FRUITS  may  be  easily 


nade  from  the  preceding  directions. 

SYRUPS  consist  of  sugar  dissolved  in  water  or  in  the 
uices  of  fruits.  They  rather  belong  to  the  province  ot‘ 
nedicine  than  to  cookery.  We  may,  however,  mention  a 
;-ood  rule  to  be  adopted  in  the  preparation  of  all  syrups, 
lamely,  that  even  in  dissolving  sugar  in  water,  it  is  desirable 
hat  the  solution  should  be  completed  by  more  or  less 
wiling  ;  and  that  all  syrups  should  be  made  of  such  a 
Consistence,  that  when  cold  and  poured  out  of  a  spoon  or 
up  in  a  little  stream,  a  globule  of  the  syrup  should  rise 
ip  to  the  cup  with  an  elastic  rebound — a  proof  that  the 
vrup  is  thick  enough  to  keep  :  if  made  thicker  it  will 
andy,  and  if  made  thinner  it  will  ferment. 

Note,  this  rule  is  of  no  trifling  moment ,  and  should 
\e  always  attended  to  by  the  cook. 

CAP!  LL  AIRE.  Dissolve  sufficient  lump  sugar  in 
range-flower  water  to  make  it  into  a  syrup  :  about  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar  will  be  necessary  to  each  pint 


*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier ,  page  302. 

p  3 


322 


SYRUPS. 


of  water.  Let  the  solution  be  made  in  a  water  bath  at  a 
boiling’  heat ;  and  let  what  scum  arises  from  it  be  taken  off. 

Note,  that  capillaire  is  often  made  in  a  much  more  com¬ 
plicated  way ;  it  is  sometimes  clarified  with  the  white  of 
eggs  and  isingdass. 

SIMPLE  SYRUP  is  made  with  sugar  and  water  in  the 
same  proportions  and  in  the  same  manner  as  capillaire, 
which  see. 

SYRUP  OF  MULBERRIES.  Dissolve  two  pounds  of 
sugar  in  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  mulberries,  in  a  water-bath, 
in  a  similar  way  as  directed  for  Capillaire. 

SYRUP  OF  ROSES  may  be  made  either  with  the 
fresh  petals  of  the  cabbage  rose,  or  after  they  are  dried. 
If  with  the  fresh  petals,  pour  upon  half  a  pound  of  them 
one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  let  them  stand  together  for  six 
hours,  and  then  strain  off  the  liquor  ;  to  which  add  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar  ;  boil  it  down  to  a  proper 
consistence.  See  the  note  below. 

Note,  if  you  use  the  dried  petals,  two  ounces  will  be 
sufficient  for  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 

HONEY  OF  ROSES.  Pour  upon  four  ounces  of  the 
dried  petals  of  the  red  rose  three  pints  of  boiling  water ; 
let  them  stand  together  for  six  hours  ;  strain  off  the  liquor, 
and  add  to  it  five  pounds  of  honey  ;  boil  it  in  a  water-bath 
to  a  proper  consistence.* 

Note,  that  honey  requires  the  same  treatment,  when 
made  into  a  syrup  with  infusions  or  the  juices  of  vegetables, 
as  sugar.  See  Syrups  above. 

And  note  further,  that  any  more  extended  descriptions 
of  syrups  must  be  wholly  unnecessary,  as  a  cook  of  the 
plainest  capacity  may  readily  make  a  syrup  of  Clove  July 
fiowcrs,  a  syrup  of  violets,  a  syrup  of  red  poppies,  a 
syrup  of  elder  berries,  8fc.  8fC.,  from  the  directions  al¬ 
ready  laid  down. 

*  Pliar.  Loud.  1824.  It  should  be  observed  here  that  the  leaves 
of  the  Cabbage  Rose,  Rosa  cenii/olia,  are  purgative  when  made 
into  a  syrup  ;  and  that  the  leaves  of  the  Red  Rose  are  astringent. 
See  Conserve  of  Roses,  p.  319. 


323 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

POTTING,  COLLARING,  PICKLING,  SALTING,  AND 
PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETA  ISLES. 


Escap’d,  at  length,  the  paths,  the  tempting  paths. 

So  thick  bestrown  with  many  a  Cookery  Sin : 

Escap’d  the  luxuries  of  sugar,  fruit — 

From  Twelfth  cake.  Orange  pudding.  Macaroons — 

From  Bonbons,  Pastils,  and  the  insidious  train 
That  often  bear  Dyspepsia  along — 

Escap’d  all  these,  the  careful  Housewife  here 
May  with  discretion  talk  ;  here  may  she  learn 
What  interest  Knowledge,  usefully  employed, 

!  Fails  not  to  give  ;  and  here  Economy, 

Watchful  o’er  waste,  her  daughters  fair  instructs 
By  Lectures  of  Utility,  the  while 
Science,  descending  from  her  lofty  height. 

Prompted  by  foresight,  modestly  displays 
Her  best,  most  useful  triumphs. 

■ - 

General  Observations.  This  is  assuredly  one  of 
J  the  most  important  chapters  of  our  work  :  for  it  teaches 
various  methods  of  preserving  many  articles  of  food,  with¬ 
out  which  our  cookery  would  he  very  incomplete.  It  is 
true  that  many  persons  residing  in  London ,  who  are  blest 
with  the  gifts  of  Fortune,  may,  in  a  great  measure,  dis- 
1  pense  with  the  knowledge  which  it  is  our  design  in  this 
chapter  to  impart ;  as,  such  is  now  here  the  division  of 
labour,  few  of  the  opulent  or  their  cooks  trouble  themselves 
'  about  salting  either  pork  or  beef,  the  dealers  in  the  re¬ 
spective  articles  supplying  them  with  what  they  want  upon 
demand.  But  the  economical  housekeeper,  even  in  Lon¬ 
don,  ought,  nevertheless,  to  devote  some  attention  to  this 
branch  of  the  art ;  w’hile,  in  the  country ,  a  knowledge  of 
it  is  indispensable ;  for  if  you  do  not  salt  the  meat  your- 
I  self,  or  if  it  be  not  salted,  at  least  under  your  superin¬ 
tendence,  you  can  rarely  there  purchase  it ;  and,  hence, 
added  to  the  irregular  supply  of  fresh  meat,  your  family 


324 


POTTING — PPM  MIC  AN. 


may  sometimes  be  obliged  to  go  without  a  dinner  We 
knew  a  lady  (who  was  brought  up  and  had  lived  long  in  a 
large  city)  after  she  went  to  reside  permanently  in  the 
country,  rendered  very  uncomfortable  for  some  time  by  the 
very  different  practices  adopted  by  butchers,  greengrocers, 
&c.  in  the  town  and  in  the  country.  She  ultimately,  how¬ 
ever,  became  a  provident  housewife  in  these  respects,  ne¬ 
cessity  being,  in  this  case,  as  in  many  others,  an  excellent 
teacher.  To  the  young  cook,  and  to  young  ladies  in  par¬ 
ticular,  we  recommend  this  chapter,  assured  that,  when 
they  become  mothers,  they  will  be  grateful  for  the  informa¬ 
tion  which  we  shall  lay  before  them.  The  reader  must  not, 
nevertheless,  conclude  that  everything  in  this  chapter  is 
valuable  ;  by  no  means. 

Pickled  Vegetables  generally  we  estimate  at  a  very 
low  rate ;  we  shall  point  out,  in  passing,  those  which  we 
most  approve. 

Especial  care  must  be  taken  that  all  the  vessels  employed 
in  the  different  processes  described  in  this  chapter,  be  per- 
fectty  clean  and  wholesome.  The  best  sort  of  earthenware 
for  potting  and  pickling  is  that  commonly  called  stoneware , 
because  no  acids  will  act  upon  it ;  vessels  glazed  with 
lead,  such  are  those  of  the  common  red  earthenware  in 
daily  use,  are  decidedly  bad,  and  for  such  purposes  should 
be  always  avoided. 

POTTING  is  a  piocess  which  may  be  occasionally  very 
advantageously  employed,  particularly  when  you  should 
happen  to  have  a  considerable  quantity  of  fresh  meat  more 
than  can  be  immediately  consumed  while  it  is  fresh  ;  and 
also  where  the  remains  of  poultry,  game,  beef,  &c.  may 
be  better  preserved  than  by  ordinary  salting;  it  is  also  a 
very  useful  process  to  convert  animal  food  into  a  state  sui¬ 
table  for  the  stomach  without  much  chewing ;  to  the  old, 
and  to  those  who  have  the  misfortune  to  be  deprived  of 
their  teeth,  from  whatever  cause,  it  offers  a  valuable  succe- 
daneum  for  them.* 

*  In  the  voyages  and  journeys  which  have  been  undertaken 
during  the  present,  century  to  discover  a  North  West  Passage  in 
the  higher  latitudes  of  North  America,  we  find  that  a  prepared 
animal  food  called  Prmuican  is  frequently  spoken  of ;  it  consists 
of  the  flesh  of  the  buffalo,  moose,  or  rein-deer,  or  beef  cut  int@ 


POTTING  —  BEEF* 


325 


It  is  usual  to  pour  Clarified  butter ,  see  page  23,  over 
II  potted  articles  to  the  depth  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  or 
nore,  after  they  have  been  closely  pressed  down  in  the  pot ; 
he  butter  should  not  be  poured  on  till  the  meat  is  cold  ; 
hey  should  be  afterwards  tied  over  with  bladder  skin  and 
rown  paper ;  and  then  deposited  in  a  cool  place,  in  which 
ttle  or  no  change  of  temperature  is  likely  to  occur. 

BEEF  is  potted  in  various  ways  ;  some  direct  two  pounds 
f  the  fillet  from  the  inside  of  a  rump  of  beef,  and  the 
ame  quantity  of  bacon  minced  small  and  thin,  pounded 
a  a  marble  mortar,  with  any  seasoning  that  you  choose, 
iicli  as  parsley,  thyme,  shalots,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  essence 
f  ham,  mushroom  powder,  spice,  &c. ;  when  they  are 
•ell  incorporated  and  smooth,  fill  small  pots  with  the  mix- 
ire,  tie  it  over  with  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
[>r  about  forty  minutes.  When  cold,  pour  over  them  clari- 
sd  butter. 

Or,  separate  all  the  flesh,  &C.  from  the  bone  of  a  shin  or 
g  of  beef,  and  bake  it  with  a  little  water  in  ajar  or  other 
mvenient  vessel,  till  it  is  become  fit  for  eating  ;  then  take  it 
ut,  separate  all  the  membranes,  gristles,  &c.  from  it, 
ad  with  the  marrow'  of  the  bone,  purified  by  being  melted 
id  strained,  beat  it  into  a  smooth  paste  in  a  marble 
ortar.  You  may  add  to  it  what  condiments  you  please  ; 
at  a  little  salt  is  indispensable  ;  put  it  into  jars,  with  clari- 
ed  butter  over  it. — Miss  H. 

Note  that  this  is  excellent  food  on  many  occasions  for 
lose  who  cannot  masticate :  the  gravy  may  be  used  as 
:her  beef  gravy. 

Or,  salt  some  lean  beef  with  common  salt  and  a  little 
dtpetre,  to  w;hich  some  add  raw  sugar  ;  let  it  remain  in 
.It  for  two  days  ;  than,  drain  the  brine  from  it,  cut  it 
to  pieces,  and  fill  a  stone  jar  with  it,  adding  to  it  a  little 

rips,  dried  by  the  smoke  of  a  wood  fire,  then  beaten  into  pow- 
j?r,  and  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  melted  l'at.  It  is  said 
at,  wh'm  well  prepared,  it  will  keep  good  for  several  years ; 
id  that  it  is  decidedly  the  most  substantial  and  best  adapted  food 
r  the  nature  of  the  country,  and  for  such  services  as  the  voyagers 
jure  called  upon  to  perform.  See  An  Abstract  of  Captain  Back’s 
aper  on  the  Arctic  Land  Expedition  in  the  Penny  Magazine,  vol,  i. 
tg-e  386. 


326  POTTING  —  VEAL,  POULTRY,  &C. 

water,  and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven ;  or,  it  may  be  submitted 
to  the  heat  of  a  boiling’  water-bath  for  one  or  more  hours, 
depending  upon  the  quantity  of  your  meat ;  you  must 
allow,  at  least,  one  hour  for  every  pound.  It  should  be 
tied  closely  over  before  it  is  sent  to  the  oven  or  set  in  the 
water-bath  :  some  will  lay  a  paste  over  it.  When  it  is  suffi¬ 
ciently  done,  take  it  out  of  the  jar,  drain  the  gravy  from 
it,  separate  all  the  gristle  and  skin,  and  pound  the  meat 
well  into  a  smooth  paste  with  clarified  butter  ;  during  the 
process  of  beating  add  what  seasoning  you  choose  to  it, 
such  as  pepper,  spice,  &c.  And,  if  you  choose,  you  may 
boil  down  the  gravy  pretty  thick,  and  then  beat  it  up  with 
your  paste,  provided  that  it  does  not  make  it  too  salt, 
which  it  possibly  will ;  your  discretion  in  this  must  be  your 
guide.  When  well  beaten,  put  it  into  pots  and  pour  clarified 
butter  over  it. 

Note ,  that  some  of  our  cotemporaries  order  fresh  butte, 
to  be  mixed  with  the  beef;  but  fresh  butter  contains  mate¬ 
rials  which  will  contribute  to  the  decomposition  of  the 
animal  fibre,  or,  at  least,  wall  impart  to  it,  most  probably, 
a  disagreeable  taste  after  being  kept  some  time  ;  and,  there¬ 
fore,  butter  deprived  of  its  butter-milk,  &c.  by  being 
clarified ,  should  always  be  employed.  See  page  23. 

We  do  not  coincide  with  Dr.  Kitchiner  when  he  advises 
the  beef  which  has  been  boiled  for  gravies,  &c.  to  be  made 
into  potted  beef,  with  the  addition  of  condiments,  a  little 
butter,  and  pounding  in  a  mortar;  it  may  be  certainly 
preserved  by  such  means ;  but  who  can  expect  a  savoury 
and  nutricious  dish  from  it?  His  analogy  of  baked  meat  is 
incorrect  and  inapplicable. 

Note ,  also,  that,  in  the  same  way  as  last  directed,  may 
be  potted  Veal,  Poultry,  Venison,  Game,  Tongues. 
&c.  &c.  and  also  already  dressed  meat  of  any  kind 
omitting,  of  course,  the  baking  or  water-bath  ;  but  taking 
care  to  separate  all  the  gristles,  skin,  bones,  &c.  before 
pounding  the  meat  with  the  butter.  Observe,  that  the 
process  of  pounding  will  be  considerably  shortened  if  the 
meat  be  previously  well-minced.  Observe,  too,  that  meal 
previously  salted  will  keep  better  when  potted  than  fresl 
beef;  your  aim  should,  however,  be  to  salt  itonlysv.jp, 
ciently  long  to  keep  it:  for  highly  salted  beef,  as  every 


POTTING  —  FISH.  327 

one  knows,  is  not  so  nutricious  as  that  which  is  mo  cleat  ely 
salted  or  fresh. 

Ham  or  bacon  minced  and  beaten  up  with  the  flesh  of 
poultry,  game,  veal,  &c.  will  be  found  relishing  and  desi¬ 
rable  additions  to  them. 

LOBSTER  may  be  thus  potted :  take  the  meat  and 
<spawn  of  well  boiled  hen  lobsters  and  pound  them  in  a  mor- 
jtar  with  a  little  salt,  spices  in  powder,  cayenne  or  other 
pepper,  and  clarified  butter  into  a  smooth  paste.  Press  it 
down  in  suitable  stone  jars,  pour  clarified  butter  over  it,  and 
Iset  them  by  in  a  cool  place. 

Note ,  in  the  same  way  Crabs,  Shrimps,  Prawns  and 
Crayfish  may  be  potted. 

i  Note  also  that,  in  every  instance,  sufficient  salt  must  be 
added  to  the  fish  to  keep  it ;  and  that,  although  we  give 
these  directions  for  such  potted  shell- fish,  we  do  not  greatly 
admire  them  in  a  potted  state ;  crab,  in  particular,  is  not  a 
food  that  we  can,  even  when  fresh,  greatly  commend :  we 
do  not  suppose  that  potting  will  improve  its  nutritive  pro¬ 
perties. 

EELS  must  be  boned  and  cut  into  pieces  of  about  three 
inches  in  length  ;  you  may  skin  them  or  not,  as  you  please ; 
season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  spice ;  put  them  into  a 
jar  and  pour  as  much  clarified  butter  over  them  as  will  cover 
them  :  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven ;  the  time  must  depend 
iupon  the  cpiantity ;  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour  Aviil  be 
generally  enough.  Take  them  out  of  the  jar  while  hot,  and 
lay  them  on  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain  ;  then  pour  off  the  but¬ 
ter  in  which  they  were  baked  from  the  gravy  of  the  fish, 
'•Which  lay,  when  cold,  again  in  the  jar,  sprinkling  over  them 
pome  of  the  same  seasoning  ;  press  them  down  pretty  close, 
and  pour  the  reserved  butter  melted  over  them. 

LAMPREYS,  SMELTS,  CHAR,  PIKE,  SALMON, 
and  indeed  every  other  sort  of  fish  may  be  potted  in  a  similar 
manner  to  eels  ;  the  larger  fish  must  not  only  be  boned,  but 
cut  into  suitable  pieces  before  being  baked  ;  and  it  will  be 
advisable  that  the  seasoning  should  be  strewed  over  such 
Ijjas  salmon  for  three  or  more  hours  before  being  sent  to  be 
•  baked.  The  time  of  baking  all  these  must  depend  upon 
1  their  quantity  and  size. 


328 


POTTED  LAVER — COLLARING. 


Note ,  that  clarified  butter  must  be  employed  with  al 
potted  fish,  and  also  to  cover  them. 

LAVER  is  the  leaves  of  the  Ulva  Lactuca,  and,  we  be¬ 
lieve,  some  other  species  of  the  same  genus  of  marine  plants 
growing  on  rocks,  &c.  on  the  sea-shore  in  various  parts  of  this 
country  :  it  is  potted  and  sent  to  London  and  other  towns 
as  a  luxury  ;  many  persons  are  extremely  fond  of  it :  it  is 
we  presume,  quite  as  wholesome  as  cabbage  or  spinach,  tc 
which  last  it  approaches  in  its  sensible  qualities  ;  but  it  is. 
when  potted,  of  a  much  darker  green  than  spinach  ;  indeed 
it  is  almost  black.  Some  of  our  Lady  Bountifuls  say  that 
it  is  a  great  sweetener  of  the  blood  ;  this  is  childish  cant ; 
but,  as  a  marine  plant,  it  contains,  very  probably,  iodine, 
w’hich  is  well  known  to  be  useful  in  some  glandular  swellings. 
The  persons  who  collect  it  pot  it  thus  :  It  is  first,  after  being 
picked  from  the  rocks,  well  washed  in  a  basket  with  plent} 
of  water  to  free  it  from  sand,  &c.,  and  then  all  other  ex¬ 
traneous  matters,  such  as  w'eeds,  are  picked  out  of  it;  it  i 
next  stewred  -with  a  little  w'ater  and  some  salt  in  an  iron 
vessel  in  a  low  heat  for  seven  or  eight  hours,  when  it  be 
comes  a  kind  of  soft  pulp  ;  it  is  stirred  occasionally  during 
the  stewing  to  prevent  its  burning;  some  put  vinegar  as 
w7ell  as  salt  with  it.  Note,  this  is  all  the  preparation  that 
potted  laver  undergoes  at  Watchet ,  Somerset.  G.  B. 

The  laver  obtained  in  London  is  brought  chiefly  from  the 
West  of  England.  It  may  be  prepared  for  the  table  in  se¬ 
veral  ways  ;  the  fashionable  one  is  to  honour  it  by  warming 
it  in  a  silver  saucepan  over  a  lamp,  with  butter  and  the  juice 
of  a  Seville  orange,  and  to  bring  it  in  the  saucepan  to  the 
table.  Vinegar  is  sometimes  taken  with  it ;  it  is  also  some  ¬ 
times  fried  in  cakes  till  it  is  a  little  browned.  In  Wales  it 
is  mixed  with  oatmeal,  then  made  into  cakes,  over  which 
oatmeal  is  shaken,  they  are  afterwards  fried  brown  in  butter  ; 
a  poached  egg  is  also  sometimes  placed  upon  the  top  of  each 
cake  ;  it  thus  becomes  a  very  pretty  dish.  It  is  also  consi¬ 
dered  a  luxurious  garnish  to  roast  meat. 

COLLARING  is  not  a  process  which  the  economical 
will  be  very  likely  to  adopt;  it  is,  how'ever,  one  which  the 
cook  will  be  occasionally  called  upon  to  perform,  and  there¬ 
fore  a  few  directions  shall  be  here  given  concerning  it.  Care 
must  be  taken,  in  collaring,  that  your  article,  whatever  it  be. 


COLLARING  — BEEF  —  VEAL. 


329 


properly  rolled  up  and  well  bound  together  ;  it  should  also 
}  well  boiled,  and  be  quite  cold  before  being  put  into  the 
ckle,  in  which  it  should  lie  for  a  night,  when  the  binding 
ay  be  taken  off  and  the  article  will  be  ready  for  use.  The 
ickle  may  be  water  in  which  as  much  salt  is  dissolved  as 
e  water  will  take  up,  to  every  pint  of  which  add  half  a 
nt  of  vinegar  ;  it  should  be  enough  to  cover  the  article 
mpletely ;  and  it  will  be  desirable  to  add  new  pickle  to  it 
casionally,  by  which  means  your  meat  will  keep  much 
nger.  This  direction  applies  to  meat,  such  as  veal,  which 
Is  not  been  previously  salted :  beef  collared  according  to 
e  directions  below,  will,  if  kept  in  a  cool  place,  retain  its 
todness  for  a  long  while  without  being  placed  in  a  pickle ; 
it  an  immersion  in  pickle  is,  of  course,  the  way  to  keep  it 
bst  effectually. 

To  COLLAR  BEEF.  Bone  a  piece  of  the  flank  of  young, 
ader,  and  moderately  fat  beef;  strip  off  the  skin  and  salt 
with  common  salt,  a  little  saltpetre,  and  some  raw  sugar, 
ixed  together  and  well  dried  by  the  fire.  Let  it  remain  in 
It  for  eight  days  or  more,  turning  it  every  day,  pouring 
e  brine  which  runs  out  of  it  over  it  also  daily.  Remove 
from  the  pickle  and  wash  and  wipe  it  dry.  Take  now  a 
carter  of  an  ounce  each  of  cloves,  mace,  and  pepper,  and 
e  nutmeg,  all  in  powder,  plenty  of  parsley  and  some 
i  eet  herbs  minced  fine.  Sprinkle  all  these  condiments  (to 
lich  some  will  add  allspice)  on  the  beef,  roll  it  up,  put  a 
i&rse  cloth  around  it,  and  tie  it  tight  with  tape.  Boil  it 
plenty  of  water  for  five  or  more  hours,  depending  upon 
i  size.  When  it  is  done,  take  it  from  the  boiler  and  put  it 
a  press,  or  between  two  boards  with  a  large  weight  upon 
and  let  it  remain  there  till  it  is  cold.  Take  it  out  of  the 
th,  and  it  may  be  cut  into  what  slices  you  please.  You 
uy  garnish  with  raw  parsley. 

Note,  that  this  collared  beef  is  excellent  for  sandwiches 
ien  cold,  but  it  is  very  good  if  eaten  hot,  with  boiled  car¬ 
's,  &c. 

And  note  also  that  a  breast  of  Vea  l  or  Mutton  may  be 
t  ated  in  a  similar  manner ;  but  veal  is  more  commonly 
<  lared  thus : 

A  BREAST  OF  VEAL.  Bone  it,  rub  it  over  with 
t)  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  strew  over  it  powdered  mace, 


330  COLLARING  VENISON  — MOCK  BRAWN. 

nutmeg’,  pepper,  and  salt,  plenty  of  parsley,  some  sweet 
herbs  and  lemon  peel,  all  finely  minced,  to  which  some  will 
add  an  anchovy,  or  some  ham  minced  w'ith  a  few  crumbs 
of  bread.  Roll  it  up  tight,  bind  it  well  with  a  fillet,  wrap 
it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours  and 
a  half.  Keep  it  in  the  pickle  described  above  under  Collar¬ 
ing,  page  329.  Its  garnish  may  be  pickles  and  parsley. 

A  CALF’S  HEAD,  with  the  hairs  olf,  but  the  skin  left 
on,  and  the  bones  all  taken  out,  may  be  collared  in  the  same 
way  as  directed  for  a  breast  of  veal ;  when  it  is  boiled  and 
cold,  it  must  be  put  into  the  same  pickle. 

A  SIDE  OF  VENISON  is  usually  converted  into  two 
or  three  collars  ;  it  is,  of  course,  boned,  and  then  larded  with 
slices  of  bacon  three  or  four  inches  long  and  half  an  inch 
wide ;  it  is  seasoned  wfith  pepper,  salt,  and  spices. 
The  collars  are  then  rolled  up  tight  and  put  into  pots  having 
some  seasoning,  clarified  butter,  and  some  bay  leaves  at  the 
bottoms  of  them ;  over  the  collars  is  also  strewn  some  sea¬ 
soning  and  butter,  to  which  some  will  add  beef  suet  chopped 
fine  ;  over  all  is  laid  a  coarse  paste ;  they  are  baked  for 
four  or  more  hours.  The  collars  are  then  taken  from  the 
pots  and  drained  well ;  the  fat  is  also  separated  from  the 
gravy  and  clarified  with  more  butter  if  necessary.  Let 
the  pots  be  made  quite  clean,  and  with  seasoning  and  a 
little  of  the  fat  at  the  bottom  put  in  the  venison  and  fill 
up  the  pots  with  the  clarified  butter  one  inch  above  the 
meat.  Tie  the  pots  down  and  keep  them  in  a  cold  place. 
When  the  venison  is  wmnted,  the  pot  must  be  put  into 
boiling  water,  and  the  collar  may  be  taken  out  whole.  Gar¬ 
nish  with  bay  leaves  or  what  else  you  please. 

MOCK  BRAWN.  Boil  two  or  more  neats’  feet  till 
they  are  tender ;  pick  the  flesh  and  skin  entirely  from 
the  bones  ;  boil  also  a  belly  piece  of  pork,  which  has  been 
salted  for  eight  days  or  moie  with  common  salt  and  a 
little  saltpetre,  till  it  is  fit  for  eating,  bone  it  and  roll 
the  meat,  &c.  of  the  neats’  feet  up  with  the  pork,  which 
bind  with  a  strong  cloth  and  tape  very  tight;  boil  till  the 
whole  is  quite  tender.  When  it  is  cold  remove  the  cloth 
and  put  it  into  a.  pickle  of  salt  and  water  with  vinegar 
as  above. 

ANOTHER  MOCK  BRAWN  may  be  made  by  salting 


COLLARING  FISII. 


331 


|  a  pig’s  head,  cut  in  two,  for  a  few  days,  then  boiling  it 
until  the  bones  can  be  readily  separated  from  the  flesh, 
&c.  and  then  collaring  it  similarly  to  a  calf’s  head,  with 
suitable  seasoning  of  course.  See  calf’s  head  above.  The 
pickle  may  be  the  same  as  that  directed  for  the  last  article. 

COLLARED  EELS  The  eel,  not  skinned,  must  be 
cut  open  from  end  to  end,  the  head  and  tail  cut  oft’,  the 
bones  taken  out,  and  the  eel  laid  flat,  over  which  strew 
some  sage  minced  very  fine,  ground  black  pepper,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  salt;  roll  it  up  in  a  little  cloth,  tying  it 
tight. 

Boil  now  the  head,  tail,  and  bones,  with  pepper,  salt, 
cloves,  mace,  and  a  bay  leaf  or  two,  in  water  for  fifteen 
or  more  minutes  ;  take  out  the  bones,  and  head  and  tail, 
and  put  in  your  eel,  which  boil  till  it  is  tender.  Take 
out  the  eels  and  boil  down  your  liquor  till  it  is  tolerably 
thick;  when  it  is  cold  put  in  your  eel,  to  wffiich  you  may 
add  a  little  vineqar  :  the  liciuor  should  be  sufficient  to  cover 
the  eel.  Any  quantity  of  eels  may  be  thus  collared  :  it  is 
best  not  to  take  off  the  cloths  till  you  want  to  use  the  eels. 

COLLARED  SALMON.  Split  a  salmon  in  two, 
lengthwise,  and  cut  off  the  head  and  the  tail ;  wash  and 
wipe  it  dry,  rub  it  well  all  over  with  salt,  pepper,  and  such 
spices  as  you  may  choose,  all  in  powder,  roll  it  into  a  collar, 
bind  it  with  broad  tape,  and  boil,  or  rather  simmer  it  in 
water  with  a  considerable  portion  of  salt,  some  pepper,  and 
a  few  bay  leaves,  from  one  to  twro  hours,  depending  upon 
its  size ;  take  it  out  of  the  liquor,  which  must  be  boiled 
down  till  it  is  just  sufficient,  with  one-fourth  its  measure  of 
vinegar  added  to  it,  after  the  liquor  is  cold,  to  cover  the 
fish. 

Note,  that  some  direct  the  vinegar  to  be  boiled  with  the 
fish ;  this  is  highly  improper,  as  much  of  it  will  evaporate 
in  the  boiling ;  and  what  is  left  will  combine  with  the  lime 
sin  the  fish,  and  be  rendered,  most  probably,  no  longer  acid  : 
jja  proof  this,  that  a  good  cook  ought  to  have  some  know¬ 
ledge  of  chemistry.  See  our  general  observations  on  vine¬ 
gar,  forwards. 

OTHER  FISH,  such  as  MACKAREL,  may  be  col¬ 
lared  in  precisely  the  same  way  as  salmon  ;  but  the  time  of 
i boiling  must  be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the  fish  ;  and  care 


332 


PICKLING — VINEGAR. 


must  be  taken  that  the  vinegar  is  added  to  the  respective 
fish  after  the  boilings  have  been  completed,  for  the  reasons 
assigned  above. 

PICKLING.  This  is  a  process  of  which  most  house¬ 
wives  are  very  fond  ;  what  housekeeper  would  be  withoul 
some  store  of  pickles  ?  We  have  stated  under  our  genera, 
observations  above  that  we  estimate  vegetable  pickles  at  a 
low  rate,  chiefly  because  by  long  immersion  in  vinegar  the) 
are  rendered  unsuitable  to  any  but  the  strongest  stomachs. 
Vinegar  is,  it  is  true,  an  excellent  condiment,  and  were  the  lr| 
vegetables  only  employed  to  flavour  that,  there  would  he 
little  objection  to  their  use  for  such  a  purpose.  Vinegai  1 
being  much  employed  as  a  vehicle  for  pickling,  it  will  be  i 
proper  that  we  should  enter  here  a  little  into  its  history  it 
(we  have  already  mentioned  it  in  page  186);  before  going  f 
into  which  we  may  just  observe  that  stone  jars  are  the  bes  ® 
vessels  for  keeping  pickles ;  and  that  a  wooden  or  silvei 
spoon  should  always  be  employed  to  take  them  out. 

No  copper  or  leaden  vessels  should,  on  any  account,  bejf 
employed  in  the  preparation  of  pickles ;  nor  indeed  should 
iron  ones  be  used,  unless  they  are  well  tinned;  for,  although.  <•' 
iron  is  not  unwholesome,  yet  vinegar  will  dissolve  it,  and 
thus  a  taste,  more  or  less  disagreeable,  will  be  imparted  tc  « 
both  that  and,  perhaps,  the  pickle  also. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  VINEGAR.— Th^s 
juices  of  most  fruits  which  contain  more  or  less  sugar,  such 
as  apples,  pears,  grapes ,  &c.  &c.  naturally  go  into  a  fer-  « 
mentation  soon  after  they  are  expressed ;  that  from  apples 
when  fermented  is  called  cyder ;  that  from  pears,  perry  ;> 
and  that  from  grapes,  wine.  This  first  fermentation  is 
called  the  vinous  fermentation,  and  the  juices  by  such  Pi 
process  become  stimulating  and  intoxicating  liquors ;  and1 
they  are  strong  or  weak  in  the  exact  proportion  in  which 
sugar  is  contained  in  them  in  large  or  in  small  quantity; 
that  ingredient  being  the  one  essential  to  the  production  oi 
spirit  or  alcohol,  on  which  their  intoxicating  as  well  as  theii 
stimulating  properties  chiefly  depend.  In  the  vinous  fer¬ 
mentation  a  large  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  gas  is  disen 


gaged,  which  gives  to  all  fermented  wines,  as  well  as  malt 
liquors,  (which  are  a  sort  of  wines  obtained  by  another 
process,)  their  sprightliness.  All  wines,  if  strong,  will 


VINEGAR. 


333 


teep,  when  excluded  from  the  air,  for  a  period  more  or  less 
long;  but  exposed  to  air  and  moderate  heat,  such  as  that 
)f  our  summers,  they  go  into  another  fermentation,  which 
js  called  the  acetous ;  and  hence  become  various  kinds  of 
Vinegar ,  which  word  is  a  corruption  from  the  French  vin 
n  ligre ,  that  is,  sour  wine.  In  this  second  fermentation 
mother  change  is  made  in  the  ingredients  of  the  w’ine ; 
«  )xygen  is  absorbed  from  the  atmosphere,  and  the  spirit 
Dj  vhich  the  wine  contains  becomes  thus  converted  into 
:b  inegar.  Hence  it  is  essential  to  know  that  no  g’ood  wine 
b  ian  be  made,  under  ordinary  circumstances,  into  good 
inegar,  without  exposure  for  some  time  to  the  air.  But 
1  inegar  may  be  made  with  sugar  and  water;  yes,  but  here 
he  vinous  and  the  acetous  fermentations  follow  closely 
ipon  each  other.  For  more  concerning  fermentation,  see 
ur .articles  Bread,  Brewing,  Wine,  &c. 

We  may  also  just  add  here  that  vinegar  is  called  by  the 
lemists  the  acetic  acid,  because  acetum  is  the  Latin  name 
jpr  vinegar;  and  that,  although  all  the  vinegar  found  in 
ommerce  is  the  product  of  art,  the  acetic  acid  nevertheless 
xists  in  the  juice  of  several  plants. 

I  VINEGAR  IN  THE  LARGE  WAY  is  obtained  in  this 
ountry  either  from  an  infusion  of  malt,  termed  wort ,  which 
j  fermented  in  casks  with  their  bungs  out,  the  hole  being 
Isually  covered  with  a  tile  to  admit  the  air  and  prevent  the 
pcess  of  rain,  and  kept  at  a  temperature  of  84°  of  Fahren- 
eit’s  thermometer.  Thus  obtained,  it  is  of  a  reddish  brown 
alour,  and  sour,  of  course;  the  maker  is  permitted  to  mix 
ith  it  one-thousandth  part  of  its  -weight  of  sulphuric  acid, 
lat  is,  what  is  commonly  called  oil  of  vitriol  ;*  such  vinegar 
not  therefore  pure  acetic  acid ;  but  we  believe,  nevertheless, 
lat  such  acid  is  equally  as  wholesome  as  that  which  is  pure. 

Or,  negar  is  now  obtained  by  distilling  wood ,  either 
reen  or  dry,  even  the  oak  of  old  vessels  is  occasionally 
uployed ;  thus  obtained,  and  being  well  purified  by 
iiemical  processes,  it  is  colourless,  and  is  called  by  the  che- 
ust ?pyrolignous  acid;  it  is  intensely  acid,  highly  stimulates, 

i 


* 


This  is  a  regulation  in  our  excise  laws  for  those  who  make 
negar  for  sale ;  the  excise  does  not  interfere  with  the  vinegar,  or 
e  mode  of  making  it,  in  private  families. 


334 


VINEGAB. 


and  will  blister  the  skin  if  applied  to  it,*'  and  is  well  calculate* 
for  sea  voyag-es  and  for  the  preservation  of  food,  where  th< 
absence  of  all  mucilaginous  and  colouring-  matter  is  desirable 

As,  however,  the  economical  might  desire  to  make  thei 
own  vinegar,  we  present  to  them  the  following  forms : 

COMMON  VINEGAR  may  be  made  by  dissolvin{ 
either  raw  or  lump  sugar,  or  honey  or  treacle  in  water,  ii 
the  proportion  of  about  eighteen  ounces -f  to  every  gallon  o 
water,  and  also  mixing  with  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  goo* 
yeast,  and  afterwards  exposing  it  in  stone  jars  or  bottles  t* 
the  action  of  the  air ;  if  it  be  occasionally  poured  out  fron 
one  vessel  to  another,  the  process  will  be  accelerated ;  th< 
vessels  should  be  exposed  to  a  heat  equal  to  that  afforded  b; 
the  sun  in  summer  on  the  leads  or  other  convenient  place; 
of  the  house.  The  fermentation  with  yeast  will  be  bes 
made  (previously  to  putting  the  liquor  into  bottles)  for  , 
day  or  two  in  a  wooden  tub,  and  the  water  employed  may 
be  made  warm,  but  need  not  be  boiling,  as  some  bool* 
direct.  The  bottles  may  be  tied  over  with  coarse  muslin  t* 
prevent  the  access  of  flies,  &c.  or  covered  as  mentioned  ii 
page  333.  When  the  liquor  becomes  good  vinegar,  it  shoul* 
be  filtered  through  a  fine  cloth  or  flannel  bag,  and  set  bj; 
for  use.  See  also  our  concluding  Observations  on  Vine 
gars,  forwards. 

Note,  that  if  the  vinegar  be  made  with  good  lump  suga 
it  will  be  nearly  colourless.  Note,  also,  that  if  you  shoul* 
happen  to  have  some  sour  cyder,  ale,  wine,  or  strong  beer 
that  is  not  become  sufficiently  acid  for  vinegar,  exposure  fo 
some  time  to  the  air  will,  most  probably,  make  it  so ;  or 


s 


hould  the  cyder,  or  ale,  or  v;ine,  be  weak,  an  addition 


o 


some  raw  sugar  to  it,  warming  the  mixture  a  little,  an*  j 
adding  some  yeast  to  it,  will  effect  the  desired  object,  takin< 


care  to  expose  it  afterwards  to  the  air. 


*  See  the  Penny  Cyclopaedia,  article  Acetic  Acid. 
t  Mrs.  Glasse  directs  only  one  pound  of  coarse  Lisbon  sugar  t* 
every  gallon  of  water,  which  she  orders  to  be  boiled,  with  th* 
sugar  dissolved  in  it,  and  the  scum  which  arises  to  be  taken  off 
when  it  is  as  cold  as  beer  to  work,  a  good  toast  rubbed  over  witl  j 
yeast  is  put  into  the  liquor,  which  is  set  to  ferment  in  a  tub  fo  I 
twenty-four  hours,  after  which  it  is  to  be  put  into  bottles,  a; 
directed  above.  Our  friend  Mrs.  Johnson  makes  an  excellen 
vinegar  by  following  these  directions. 


VINEGARS  —  VINAIGRE  AEOMATIQUE.  335 


8 1  Or,  make  a  wort,  as  for  ale,  described  under  our  article 
Brewing ;  ferment  it  with  yeast,  and  expose  it  to  the  air 
It  in  the  same  manner  as  for  other  vinegar.  Note,  that  the 
j;  vinegar  obtained  from  malt  liquors  is  sometimes  called 
ilegar ;  but  the  term  is  becoming  obsolete, 
m  Vinegar  may  be  flavoured  with  various  ingredients,  either 
t  ry  putting  them  to  the  liquor  while  it  is  fermenting,  or 
,  aiding  them  to  the  vinegar  when  its  fermentation  is  almost 
»  )r  uite  completed.  Tarragon  Vinegar  is  made  by  using 
it  the  leaves  when  it  is  blooming-,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound 
u  o  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  setting  them  to  infuse  for  a 
tl  fortnight.  Then  pass  it  through  a  flannel  bag;  to  every 
|  gallon  of  vinegar  put  one  drachm  of  isinglass  dissolved  in 
[f(  pyder ;  let  it  stand  a  month  to  become  fine,  and  then  rack 
,  t  off  into  pint  bottles  for  use. 


GOOSEBERRY  VINEGAR.  Bruise  well  half  a  peck 
)f  gooseberries,  and  mix  them  with  one  gallon  of  water ; 
et  the  mixture  ferment  for  a  week  or  more  in  a  wooden 
„  ,ub,  stirring  it  once,  at  least,  every  day  ;  then  strain  oft’  the 
liquor  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  to  it  two  pounds  of 
;aw  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  set  it  by  in  the 
jame  tub,  well  cleaned,  for  a  few  days;  then  put  it  into  a 
.ar,  the  mouth  of  which  must  be  tied  over  with  coarse 
nuslin,  and  set  it  by  on  some  leads  or  other  warm  place  ; 
J  t  will  take  some  months  to  be  fit  for  bottling. 

Note,  that  we  do  not  know  in  what  respect  this  is  better 

nay,  we  doubt  whether  it  be 


in' 


han  good  common 


io  good,  as  it  contains  a  considerable  quantity  of  mucilagi- 
ious  matter. 

I  AN  ESSENCE  OF  VINEGAR  was  formerly  directed 
p  be  obtained  by  exposing-  common  vinegar  to  the  open  air 
n  shallow  vessels  during  intense  frost;  the  watery  parts 
feezing  while  the  vinegar  remains  liquid ;  but,  since  the 
ntroduction  of  pyrolignous  acid,  this  is  become  unneces- 
ary,  as  that  article  will  well  supply  its  place.  See  above, 

-  he  General  Observations  on  Vinegar. 

VINAIGRE  AROMATIQIJE.  Digest  for  a  month,  in 
t  gallon  of  good  vinegar,  and  in  the  ordinary  heat  of  the 
tmosphere,  two  drachms  of  whole  pepper,  cloves  and  nut- 
neg  of  each  half  a  drachm,  salt  a  handful,  of  the  fresh 
eaves  of  tarragon  four  ounces,  tenshalots,  a  clove  of  garlic, 
ne  drachm  of  thyme,  four  drachms  of  elder-flowers,  and 


336 


ACETIC  ACID  —  CHILI  VINEGAR. 


one  ounce  of  the  leaves  of  sweet-smelling-  tansy,  stirring  the 
mixture  every  day,  and  taking  also  care  that  it  be  carefully 
closed  from  the  air.  Then  filter  it,  and  add  to  it  a  glass  of 
brandy ;  keep  it  in  bottles  well  stopped. 

Note,  that  this  is  the  Aromatic  Vinegar  of  the  French; 
see  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  75.  A  much  more  elegant 

AROMATIC  VINEGAR  may  be  made  by  digesting 
spices  and  other  aromatics  in  pyrolignous  acid.  But  we  do 
not  much  admire  any  of  such  cookery  compounds ;  the  pure 
and  simple  acid  will  generally  be  found  the  best  and  most 
wholesome.  See  the  lines  as  conclusion  on  Sauces, 
p.  185. 

PURE  ACETIC  ACID,  for  fumigating  unwholesome 
and  infected  apartments,  may  be  thus  obtained :  take  any 
quantity  of  good  common  vinegar  and  mix  with  it  powdered 
chalk,  till  all  effervescence  ceases,  and  till  the  liquor  is  no 
longer  acid  ;  let  the  chalk,  now  become  an  acetate  of  lime, 
subside  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel ;  then  pour  off  the  liquor, 
and  make  the  chalk  thoroughly  dry  by  exposure  to  fire,  a 
stove,  or  the  sun.  When  you  desire  to  employ  it,  take  a  ! 
stone-ware  saucer,  put  some  of  the  chalk  in  it,  and  pour  i 
upon  it  sulphuric  acid,  that  is,  oil  of  vitriol,  and  the  pure 
acetic  acid  will  arise  from  the  mixture  in  powerful  acid  I 
fumes ;  the  saucer  may  be  carried  about  the  apartment  to 
diffuse  them ;  the  mixture  should  be  stirred  occasionally  i 
with  a  tobacco  pipe.  t 

CHILI  VINEGAR  is  merely  vinegar  impregnated  with  a 
chilies,  or  other  peppers  of  the  capsicum  tribe.  Perhaps 
one  ounce  of  genuine  Cayenne  pepper,  digested  for  a  fort-  a 
night  or  more  in  a  quart  of  good  vinegar,  shaking  the  mix‘  » 
ture  once  every  day,  will  make  as  good  as  can  be  devised; 
but  the  cook  may  employ,  instead,  fresh  English  chilies, 
if  she  pleases.  See  Cayenne  Pepper,  page  189,  con¬ 
cerning  which  we  may  further  observe,  that  much  has  been 
said  against  the  use  of  West  Indian  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
Accum  has  been  referred  to  as  an  authority,  who  by  the  | 
way  is  little  or  no  authority  at  all;  his  book  on  the  adulte¬ 
rations  of  food  contains  highly  coloured  statements,  some  of 
which  appear  to  have  been  made  for  the  purpose  of  exciting 
alarm  in  the  public  mind.  It  has  been  stated,  too,  that 
Cayenne  pepper  brought  from  the  West  Indies  is  of  a 
“  clear  red  colour;”  whereas  it  is,  when  genuine,  as  we 


VINEGARS. 


337 


have  stated  in  page  189,  of  “  an  orange  yellow,”  more  or 
less  deep.  The  red  colour  of  the  cayenne,  often  met  with 
in  the  shops,  is  given  to  it  by  some  of  the  red  dyeing 
woods,  as  well  as  the  moisture  by  the  application  of  salt. 
When  cayenne  is  pure  it  is  powdery,  and  not  much  dis¬ 
posed  to  absorb  moisture  from  the  atmosphere. 

Vinegar  may  be,  and  also  frequently  is,  impregnated  with 

Garlic,  withSHALOTs,  with  Horse-radish,  with  Green- 
Mint,  with  Burnet,  with  Cucumbers  (for  which  Burnet 
is  by  many  considered  a  good  succedaneum),  with  White 
Mustard  seed,  with  Pepper  Cress  seed,  with  Celery 
seed,  with  Currie  Powder,  &c.  ;  but  the  various  modes 
\  of  doing  which  need  not  be  described,  as  the  cook  will,  from 
the  preceding  directions  concerning  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

!  easdy  know  how  to  proceed,  taking  care,  nevertheless 
i  that  the  garlic  and  shalots  are  sliced,  that  the  horse-radish 
I  is  scraped  or  grated,  the  cucumbers  pared  and  sliced  thin, 
and  the  various  seeds  bruised.  The  digestion  of  the  diffe¬ 
rent  articles  should  be  made  without  heat,  and  they  should 
|  be  shaken  or  stirred  while  in  the  vinegar,  once  every  day 
for  a  fortnight  or  more. 

We  say  without  heat,  because  it  i3  to  be  feared  that 
heat,  if  employed  much  higher  than  that  of  the  atmosphere 
1  will  dissolve  in  the  vinegar  much  of  the  mucilage  of  the 
:  vegetables,  and  thus  render  the  vinegar  more  liable  to 
become  spoiled.  As  soon,  too,  as  the  vinegar  has  taken  up 
j  all  flavour  of  the  article  with  which  it  is  desired  to  be  im- 
|  pregnated,  it  should  be  poured  off  or  filtered  through  a  flan- 
I  nel  bag  from  the  ingredients,  and  be  kept  in  bottles  well 
stopped  in  a  cool  place. 

CAMP  VINEGAR  consists  of  Cayenne  Pepper,  Soy, 
or  Walnut  Catchup,  Anchovies,  and  Garlic  j  these  mav 
be  digested  for  fourteen  or  more  days  in  good  vinegar  and 
then  strained :  the  quantities  of  each  may  be  according;  to 
the  cook’s  discretion. 

CONCLUDING  OBSERVATIONS  ON  VINE¬ 
GARS.  Concerning  all  the  different  impregnations  of 

1  vinegar  with  various  vegetables,  it  is  necessary  that  we 
should  here  say,  we  do  not  think  any  one  of  them,  except 
that  with  cayenne  pepper  and  horse  radish,  and,  perhaps, 

Q 


338 


VINEGAR — VERJUICE. 


garlic  and  shalot,  is  such  as  we  ought  to  recommend.  The 
curious  in  culinary  taste  will  possibly  suspect  ours  ;  but,  as 
purveyors  for  the  public  health,  our  duty  prompts  us  to 
make  this  observation. 

Concerning  the  qualities  of  vinegar  we  may  also  observe 
that  that  vinegar  is  the  best  wThich  is  least  loaded  with 
vegetable  substances,  such  as  mucilage  and  extractive 
matter,  see  page  200 ;  that,  therefore,  sugar  must  be 
better  for  the  making  of  vinegar  than  either  the  wort  ob¬ 
tained  from  malt,  or  malt  liquor  converted  into  vinegar  by 
exposure  to  the  air;  treacle  for  the  same  reason  is  not  so 
good  as  sugar ;  and  the  best  sugar  for  the  purpose  is  that 
which  is  deprived  of  its  colouring  and  other  vegetable 
matters,  namely  refined  or  lump  sugar.  The  absurdity  of 
colouring ,  with  burnt  sugar  or  with  any  other  burnt  vege¬ 
table,  vinegar,  which  is  pale  or  even  colourless,  must  be, 
hence,  apparent. 

In  the  preparation  of  pickles  it  is,  therefore,  of  impor¬ 
tance  to  know  that  the  vinegar  should  be  as  free  as  possible 
from  vegetable  substances  ;  because,  whenever  it  is  more 
or  less  loaded  with  them,  it  will  spoil  much  sooner  than  it 
otherwise  would  do.  To  avoid  this  inconvenience  cooks 
sometimes  employ 

DISTILLED  VINEGAR;  but  this,  although  vinegar 
deprived  of  its  gross  vegetable  matters,  is  always  weaker  than 
our  common  vinegars ;  the  strongest  part  of  such  vinegars 
not  being  elevated  by  ordinary  distillation.  The  pyrolignous 
acid  offers,  however,  where  strong  and  pure  vinegar  is  re¬ 
quired,  a  ready  resource ;  or  the  vinegar  obtained  from 
good  white  sugar  may  be  employed,  provided  it  be  strong. 

Note. — That  the  term  white  wine  vinegar  used  in  some 
books,  and  by  the  illiterate,  is  highly  improper,  no  vinegar 
from  white  wine  being  made  in  this  country ;  still  more 
improper  is  it  to  call  distilled  vinegar  white  wine  vinegar; 
it  being  obtained  by  the  distillation  of  common  vinegar. 

VERJUICE,  OR  CRAB  VERJUICE,  is  the  juice  of 
intensely  sour  crabs,  or  other  very  sour  apples  expressed 
from  them  before  they  become  thoroughly  ripe.  Some  per¬ 
sons  may  prefer  verjuice  to  vinegar  in  pickling,  it  consisting 
chiefly,  if  not  wholly,  of  the  malic  acid,  that  is  acid  of 


LEMON  PICKLE. 


339 


apples  ;  but  we  see  no  reason  whatever  for  the  preference  - 
an  we  doubt,  besides,  whether  pure  verjuice  can  ever  be 
obtained  in  the  shops. 

Verjus  in  French  cookery  is  young  and  unripe  sour 
grapes  ;  we  rarely  if  ever  use  them  in  thiscountrv:  they 
are  made  into  compotes,  marmalades,  &c.  as  well  "as  pre¬ 
served  in  France.  H 

LEMON  PICKLE.  The  chief  object  must  be  to  give 
your  pickle  the  peculiar  flavour  which  lemon  peel  imparts 
to  many  preparations;  for  this  purpose  the  outside  peel 
should  be  pared  or  grated  off  and  beaten  into  a  pulp  with  a 
small  quantity  of  sugar  ;  or  it  may  be  digested  in  proof 
spmt  for  a  fortnight  (see  page  189  note)  and  then  strained 
Off  and  kept  in  a  bottle  well  stopped.  Add  to  every  ounce 
Of  tins  tincture  of  lemon  peel,  or  to  every  ounce  of 
the  lemon  peel  pounded  with  sugar,  one  pint  of  the 
Essence  d  Assort iment  described  in  page  163.  Or  if  vou 
esire  a  less  troublesome  and  more  simple  pickle,  you  may 
digest  for  a  fortnight  a  few  shalots  sliced,  and  one  drachm 
of  cayenne  pepper  in  a  quart  of  good  vinegar,  shakino-  the 
mixture  every  day  ;  when  it  is  strained  off,  add  two  ounces 
°  the  tincture  of  lemon  peel  to  it,  and  you  may,  if  you  please, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  lemon  juice  strained  through  a 
flannel  cloth.  See  also  forwards,  under  Medicinal 
cookery — Lemonade. 

Note.~\  ou  may  add  some  spice  to  this  pickle  if  you 
choose  ;  but  it  is  not  necessary.  J 

LEMONS  are  pickled  several  ways,  not  one  of  which  do 
we  recommend  :  for  all  the  good  qualities  of  a  lemon  reside 
in  the  outside  rind  and  in  the  juice,  both  of  which  can  be 
obtained  without  the  trouble  of  pickling  the  whole  fruit  • 
but  if  so  useless  an  article  should  be  ordered  as  a  pickled 
lemon  it  may  be  cut  into  quarters,  leaving  the  outside  rind 
on  taking  the  seeds  out,  then  sprinkling  the  quarters  over 
with  bay  salt  and  turning  them  every  day  for  three  or  four 
days,  after  which  they  may  be  put  into  a  jar,  and  covered 
over  with  good  vinegar,  to  which  may  be  added  what 
condiments  you  choose  ;  such  as  ginger,  garlic,  cayenne 
wiUP Te  &c>  In  a  month  they  will  be  as  good  as  they  ever 

Note.  Some  pickle  them  whole,  but  slit  the  rind  in 


340  WALNUT  CATCHUP — PICKLED  WALNUTS. 


sundry  places  and  load  the  slits  with  salt  for  some  days 
before  adding  the  vinegar  and  condiments  to  them.  These 
are  some  of  the  follies  of  cookery. 

WALNUT  CATCHUP.  Pound  in  a  marble  mortar  into 
a  pulp  unripe  walnuts  so  soft  that  a  pin  may  be  easily  run 
through  them  ;  (you  may  use  them  when  they  are  older,  but 
being  more  woody  they  will  contain  less  juice  ;)  press  the  pulp 
in  a  hair  or  strong  canvass  bag  in  a  screw  press  ;  add  to  each 
quart  of  the  juice  obtained  four  ounces  of  minced  anchovies 
and  the  same  quantity  of  salt ;  boil  these  together  till  the 
juice  is  reduced  to  about  one  half;  towards  the  end  of 
the  boiling  add  for  each  quart  of  juice  one  ounce  of  allspice 
and  half  an  ounce  of  black  or  long  pepper  ;  to  which  some 
will  add  mace,  cloves,  ginger,  and  scraped  horse-radish  ; 
the  spices  are  certainly  not  necessary,  the  horse-radish 
will  impart  a  pleasant  flavour :  such  additional  condiments 
must  be  in  quantity  suited  to  the  cook’s  palate  or  fancy. 
The  boiling  being  completed,  set  the  whole  by  in  a  well 
stopped  jar  to  digest  for  a  month  or  more,  stirring  or  shak¬ 
ing  the  liquor  occasionally.  The  digestion  being  completed, 
let  the  liquor  be  strained  off  and  put  into  well  stopped 
bottles. 

Note. — The  absurdity  of  boiling  the  spices  and  horse¬ 
radish  during  the  whole  operation  needs  not  be  here  in¬ 
sisted  on,  as  we  have  so  often  mentioned  it  in  the  previous 
parts  of  our  work  ;  and  note  also  that  some  will  add  vinegar 
to  walnut  catchup ;  but  we  see  no  necessity  for  it,  and  some 
will  put  shalots  and  garlic  in  it. 

WALNUTS  are  pickled  in  many  ways  and  of  different 
colours ;  some  even  give  directions  for  black  and  white 
olive,  and  green  pickled  walnuts.  We  shall  only  here  set 
down  the  usual  method  in  which  they  are  pickled,  and 
by  which  process  they  become  of  a  black  colour  more  or 
less  intense. 

The  walnuts  to  be  pickled  must  be  in  the  unripe  state 
described  in  the  last  article,  namely,  so  that  a  pin  may  be 
easily  run  through  them.  Digest  your  walnuts  in  a  strong 
brine  made  with  salt  and  water,  for  ten  days  or  more,  when 
they  must  be  taken  out,  put  into  a  hair  sieve,  and  remain 
exposed  to  the  air  for  a  day  or  two,  so  that  they  will  become 
black.  Prepare  now  a  pickle  thus  :  to  good  vinegar  sufficien  t 


jl 


PICKLED  ONIONS  —  PICALILLI.  341 

to  cover  them  when  put  into  a  stone  jar,  add  for  every  fifty 
walnuts  two  ounces  of  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce  each 
of  ginger  and  cloves,  or  allspice,  two  ounces  of  white 
mustard-seed,  and  a  clove  of  garlic ;  let  all  the  condiments 
except  the  garlic  be  bruised  and  boiled  for  a  few  moments 
only  in  the  vinegar  in  a  vessel  closely  stopped.  When  the 
liquor  is  cold  pour  it  over  the  walnuts  with  all  the  condi¬ 
ments,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  pickle  and  be  taken  out 
as  they  are  wanted.  They  will  take  some  months  to  arrive 
at  what  is  esteemed  their  perfect  state  as  a  pickle. 

Or,  you  may  put  the  walnuts  at  once  into  good  strong 
vinegar  with  any  condiments  you  choose.  This  is  the 
simplest  and  is,  perhaps,  the  best  way:  some  perforate 
the  walnuts  with  an  iron  (or  rather  a  silver  pin)  in  several 
places;  they  thus  become  much  sooner  pickled. 

Note. — That  the  pickle  of  walnuts  after  the  walnuts  have 
been  used  is  an  excellent  catchup  ;  and  the  catchup  is,  we 
believe,  the  most  wholesome  part  of  such  compounded 
condiments.  And  note  also  that  if  you  do  not  desire  your 
walnuts  should  be  black ,  you  wTill  not,  of  course,  expose  them 
to  the  air  as  directed  above  ;  and  again  observe  that  upon 
the  goodness  of  the  vinegar  will  depend  chiefly  the  goodness 
of  your  pickle :  attend,  therefore,  to  what  is  said  above  con¬ 
cerning  vinegars  generally. 

ONIONS.  Small,  round,  white  onions,  all  of  a  similar 
size,  and  prepared  soon  after  they  are  collected  from  the 
garden  in  the  month  of  September,  are  the  best  for  pickling. 
They  should  be  freed  from  tbe  outside  skins  and  their  tops 
and  tails,  and  scalded  in  brine  till  they  become  clear ;  lay 
them  in  a  cloth  till  they  are  dry,  and  then  put  them  into 
jars,  over  which  pour  a  pickle  made  with  good  vinegar,  in 
which  has  been  boiled  for  a  short  time  some  horse-radish, 
allspice,  black  pepper,  and  salt,  the  proportions  of  which  may 
be  half  an  ounce  of  each  to  a  pint  of  the  vinegar.  Some 
will  keep  them  on  the  hob  of  the  fire-place  after  the  vinegar, 
&c.  are  added  to  them,  or  on  the  tripod  near  the  fire  for  two 
or  three  days  ;  but  this  is  not  necessary.  They  should  be 
kept  well  closed  from  the  air. 

PICALILLI,  OR  INDIAN  PICKLE,  is  made  in  various 
ways ;  in  every  way  it  is  a  silly  and  incongruous  mess. 
Kitchiner  says  that  its  flavouring  ingredients  are  currie- 


342 


MUSHROOM  AND  OTHER  CATCHUPS. 


powder  and  plenty  of  mustard  and  garlic,  but  all  picalillies 
are  not  thus  exactly  flavoured.  They  consist,  however, 
usually  of  a  pickle  made  with  some  or  all  of  the  following- 
condiments  and  strong  vinegar :  ginger,  mustard,  shalots, 
onions,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  horse-radish,  cloves,  turmeric, 
&c.  These  are  digested  in  the  vinegar  in  a  warm  place  for 
three  or  four  days ;  the  liquor  is  then  poured  over  the  fol¬ 
lowing  articles  properly  prepared  for  pickling ;  namely, 
gherkins,  cucumbers  sliced,  cauliflowers  picked  into  small 
pieces,  the  white  of  a  cabbage  cut  into  small  pieces,  radish- 
pods,  celery,  French  beans,  nasturtiums,  capsicums,  and, 
in  short,  whatever,  as  a  hotch-potch  pickle,  the  fancy  of  a 
cook  may  suggest,  to  which  some  will  add  olive  oil  !  Some 
say  that  such  a  pickle  ought  to  digest  a  year.  The  cook 
will  digest  it  just  as  long  as  she  pleases.  But  we  presume 
three  months  quite  enough. 

Note. — That  some  pour  the  vinegar  boiling  hot  on  the 
articles  to  be  pickled  ;  others  add  it  cold. 

MUSHROOM  CATCHUP.  Take  any  quantity  of 
mushrooms  you  please,  (those  which  are  grown  large,  much 
expanded,  and  the  gills  dark  coloured,  are  generally  used 
for  the  purpose,  because  they  yield  the  most  liquor,  care 
being  taken  that  they  are  the  proper  edible  mushrooms,  and 
quite  sweet,  see  page  230,)  the  whole  of  the  stems  will  be 
also  found  equally  useful  with  the  heads ;  break  them 
into  small  pieces  w-ith  the  hand,  and  mix  with  them  a  pretty 
considerable  portion  of  salt  in  an  earthen  pan  ;  let  them 
remain  in  this  state  for  three  or  four  days,  bruising  them 
and  stirring  them  about  every  day ;  then  press  out  the 
liquor,  strain  it,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  one  third  or 
more ;  towards  the  end  of  the  boiling  add  for  every  quart 
half  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  all¬ 
spice,  to  which  some  will  add  mace  or  other  spice,  sliced 
•ginger,  and  a  good  quantity  of  sliced  horse-radish  ;  this  last 
is  perhaps  the  best  of  all  the  condiments  to  flavour  catchups. 
Some  add  besides,  to  every  quart  of  catchup,  four  ounces  of 
minced  anchovies  ;  these  may  be  put  in  and  boiled  at  once 
with  the  liquor.  When  cold,  strain  the  catchup  off,  and 
keep  it  in  bottles  well  stopped. 

CATCHUPS  FROM  OTHER  VEGETABLES,  such 
as  tomatos  or  love-apples,  cucumbers,  &c.  &c.  may  be 


PICKLED  MUSHROOMS — BARBERRIES.  343 

made  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  directed  for  mushroom 
catchup. 

MUSHROOMS  are  pickled  thus: — take  nice  small 
button  mushrooms,  and  rub  them  with  a  flannel  and  a  little 
salt;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  strewing'  some  salt  over 
them,  and  let  them  stew  over  a  gentle  fire  till  their  juice  is 
nearly  become  dried,  taking  care  at  the  same  time  that  they 
are  moved  about  occasionally,  that  they  are  not  broken,  and 
that  they  do  not  burn  ;  the  best  way  of  doing  this  will,  how¬ 
ever,  be  to  put  them  into  a  stone  jar  and  a  water-bath. 
Take  now  some  good  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  them  ;  make 
it  boiling  hot,  and  add  to  it  some  pepper,  mace,  ginger,  and, 
if  you  choose,  a  clove  of  garlic  or  some  shalots,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice.  When  the  condiments  have  been  in  the  hot 
vinegar  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  the  whole  to  the  mush¬ 
rooms,  and  cover  them  close  till  cold,  when  they  must  be 
put  into  proper  jars  or  bottles,  taking  care  that  there  is 
liquor  in  each  sufficient  to  cover  the  mushrooms. 

Note ,  that  some  peel  the  mushrooms,  but  if  they  be  pro¬ 
perly  wiped,  as  directed  above,  there  is  no  necessity  for  this 
process. 

MUSHROOM  POWDER.  Take  any  kind  of  mush¬ 
rooms  you  please,  whether  large  or  small,  only  be  careful 
that  they  are  the  proper  ones  for  eating ;  dry  them  in  a 
dish  or  platter  before  the  fire,  or  in  an  oven  moderately 
heated,  till  they  can  be  reduced  to  a  dry  powder ;  sift  the 
powder  through  a  sieve,  and  keep  it  in  a  bottle  well  closed 
from  the  air.  You  may,  if  you  choose,  mix  a  little  cayenne 
pepper  with  it. 

Note,  that  this  is  the  simplest  and  best  way  to  obtain 
mushroom  powder.  Some  persons,  however,  more  curious 
than  wise,  add  various  condiments  and  salt  to  them,  and 
powder  the  whole  together ;  if  the  cook  choose  she  may 
give  herself  this  trouble. 

BARBERRIES  may  be  preserved  by  being  put,  when 
they  are  ripe,  into  jars  with  a  strong  brine  made  of  salt  and 
water,  and  some  persons  prefer  this  simple  method  to  any 
other.  Others,  however,  will  proceed  more  complicately  by 
adding  to  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  ripe  barberries,  obtained  by 
bruising  and  straining  them,  three  pints  of  vinegar,  four 
ounces  of  lump  sugar,  one  ounce  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  an 


344  PICKLED  BEET  ROOTS  —  CABBAGE. 


ounce  of  sliced  ginger ;  these  are  all  boiled  together  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  the  scum  which  arises  is  taken  off. 
Bunches  of  ripe  barberries  are  then  put  into  jars,  and  the 
pickle  being  strained  is  poured  over  them  boiling  hot ;  cover 
the  jars  close,  and  when  the  pickle  is  cold  let  them  be  well 
stopped  from  the  air.  Some  direct  a  little  bruised  cochineal 
to  be  added  to  the  liquor  to  improve  the  colour  of  the 
berries,  but  this  is  a  useless  piece  of  art. 

Barberries  may  be  also  preserved  in  bunches  by  being 
scalded  in  a  strong  syrup.  See  Preserves. 

RIPE  RED  CURRANTS  may  be  preserved  in 
bunches  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  directed  for  barber¬ 
ries,  namely,  by  scalding  them  in  syrup,  or  putting  them 
into  brine. 

RED  BEET  ROOTS  must  be  boiled  till  they  are  nearly 
tender,  then  peel  them,  cut  them  into  slices  or  other  shapes 
which  you  may  choose,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes  in 
a  pickle  made  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  them,  to  which 
add  what  condiments  you  like,  such  as  spices,  pepper,  onions, 
cayenne,  and  horse-radish,  to  which  some  add  bay-leaves 
and  sliced  ginger.  Strain  off  the  pickle,  and  when  it  is 
cold  put  the  beet  into  jars,  and  pour  the  pickle  over  it. 

Note,  that  some  recommend  a  little  sweet  oil  on  the  top 
to  keep  it  from  the  air;  but  if  the  vinegar  be  good,  covers 
wholly  the  pickled  article,  and  the  jars  be  well  closed  from 
the  air,  this  is  an  unnecessary  precaution. 

Or,  you  may  put  the  sliced  beet  into  a  strong  pickle  of 
salt,  water,  and  vinegar,  omitting  all  the  condiments. 

RED  CABBAGE  is  a  very  common  pickle.  We,  be  it 
here  remembered,  do  not  recommend  it ;  those  who  like  it 
may  prepare  it  thus: — a  good  fresh  red  cabbage,  and  not 
too  old  and  woody,  being  freed  from  its  outside  leaves,  must 
be  cut  into  slips,  and  these  being  washed  and  cleaned,  put 
into  a  pan  with  plenty  of  salt  and  water,  where  they  are  to 
remain  for  about  two  days.  Take  now  sufficient  good 
vinegar  to  cover  the  cabbage,  and  simmer  it  in  a  covered 
vessel  for  half  an  hour  wTith  such  condiments  as  you  may 
choose,  namely,  pepper,  some  one  or  more  of  the  spices,  for 
which  allspice  alone  may  serve,  and  wffiite  mustard  seed  ; 
the  quantity  must  be  of  these  according  to  your  discretion  ; 
perhaps,  if  you  put  none  of  them  your  cabbage  will  not  be 


PICKLED  CAULIFLOWERS,  CUCUMBERS,  &C.  345 

much  the  worse.  When  the  pickle  is  cold,  strain  it  off, 
put  the  cabbage  into  jars,  and  pour  the  pickle  over  it. 

Note. — That  some  will  add  the  pickle  to  the  cabbage 
boiling  hot,  which  will  render  it  sooner  fit  for  use. 

Or,  the  French  method  of  pickling  cabbage  may  be  pur¬ 
sued,  which  is  assuredly  preferable  to  our  own;  it  is  thus: 
having  cut  into  fine  threads  either  red  or  any  other 
cabbage,  boil  them  in  water  for  some  minutes;  next  put 
them  in  alternate  layers  with  some  salt,  pepper,  and  cloves 
in  a  stone  jar,  which  fill  with  strong  vinegar,  to  which  you 
may  add  a  tenth  part  of  brandy ;  tie  it  over  with  parch¬ 
ment  or  a  bladder ;  they  will  keep  thus  during  the  whole 
year.* 

CAULIFLOWERS  may  be  also  pickled  in  precisely  the 
h  same  way  as  last  directed  for  cabbage,  taking  care  to 
1'  separate  them  into  convenient  portions  before  putting  them 
into  the  pickle. f 

CUCUMBERS  are  pickles  of  which  we  cannot  approve  ; 
but  luxury  demands  the  dish,  and  with  her  orders  we 
'  comply.  They  are  generally  pickled  as  gherkins ,  that  is, 
very  small  cucumbers.  They  should  be  chosen  very  green ; 
both  ends  being  cut  off,  they  must  be  soaked  in  cold  fresh 
water  for  some  hours,  then  wash  them,  take  them  out,  drain 
them  and  put  them  into  stone  jars,  upon  which  pour  suffi¬ 
cient  boiling  vinegar  to  cover  them ;  when  the  pickle  is 
cold  the  jar  must  be  stopped,  three  days  after  which  pour 
out  the  vinegar,  boil  it  again,  and  pour  it  again  upon  the 
cucumbers ;  repeat  the  same  process  after  three  days  once 
more.  In  the  last  operation  add  what  condiments  you 
choose  to  the  vinegar:  the  French  put  tarragon,  pim¬ 
pernel,  long  pepper,  garlic,  cloves,  small  onions,  and 
some  salt.  I 

In  the  same  manner  may  be  pickled  kidney  or  French 
beans,  taking  care  that  the  pods  are  tender  and  fresh  ;  and 
H  also  Radish  Pods,  Nasturtiums,  (seepage  195,)  To- 
matos,  or  Love  Apples,  Artichoke  Bottoms,  Sam- 
pire,  &c.  &c.  And,  indeed,  from  the  preceding  direc¬ 
tions  given  for  pickling  various  articles,  the  cook,  we  cannot 

*  Manual  de  Cuisinier,  page  315.  t  Id. 

X  Id.  page  321. 


TICKLING  FISH. 


346 

suppose,  will  be  at  a  loss  to  pickle  any  vegetable  that  may  be 
presented  to  her  notice,  as  well  as,  indeed,  any  fruit 
whatever;  and,  therefore,  on  this  branch  of  cookery  we 
shall  not  here  enlarge.  It  will  be  necessary,  however, 
that  we  should  say  something  about  the  Pickling  of 
Fish. 

SALMON.  Your  salmon  being  quite  fresh  and  in  proper 
season  must  be  thoroughly  cleansed,  scaled,  and  drained, 
and  then  cut  into  pieces  suitable  for  the  table ;  then  place 
them  in  a  pan  or  dish  and  sprinkle  each  piece  separately 
over  with  pepper  and  salt,  to  which  some  will  add  bay- 
leaves,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  little  butter.  Cover  the  whole 
with  vinegar,  tie  it  over  with  paper  and  let  it  be  baked  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Note. — That  some  boil  the  salmon,  cut  into  pieces,  &c. 
as  above  directed,  in  water  with  plenty  of  salt  till  it  is 
done  ;  the  liquor  in  which  the  salmon  has  been  boiled 
is  then  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar,  and  what 
condiments  might  be  chosen,  and  boiled  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  when  boiled  poured  over  the  salmon.  This  is,  perhaps, 
the  preferable  way  ;  in  the  first,  however,  the  salmon  will  be 
less  salt.  See  the  next  article — -note. 

MACKAREL,  being  well  cleansed,  must  be  cut  into 
four  or  more  pieces  if  the  fish  be  large ;  let  them  be  fried 
brown  in  olive  oil,  turning  the  pieces  in  the  pan  during 
the  frying  once  :  towards  the  end  of  the  operation  sprinkle 
over  them  plenty  of  ground  black  pepper  and  salt,  a  little 
spice,  and  any  other  condiments  you  may  choose.  When 
cold  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  into  which  pour  sufficient 
good  vinegar  to  cover  them. 

Note.- — -That  some  put  on  the  powdered  condiments 
before  the  fish  are  put  into  the  pan ;  and  some  wall  pour 
olive  oil  over  them  when  put  into  the  jars  to  preserve 
them  more  effectually.  This  article  is  sometimes  called 
Caveach. 

And  note  also,  that  almost  any  fish  may  be  pickled 
in  precisely  the  same  way  as  that  directed  for  mackarel ; 
and,  beyond  a  doubt,  it  is  one  of  the  best  methods  of  pick¬ 
ling  them,  as  by  such  means  all  the  goodness  of  the  fish 
will  be  most  likely  to  be  retained;  even  Salmon  cut  into 
pieces  so  as  to  be  conveniently  thus  fried  in  the  first  in- 


PICKLING  FISH  —  SALTING.  347 

stance  will  be  rendered  a  very  good  dish ;  it  will  be  found, 
however,  that  the  white  fish  are  best  thus  pickled. 

OYSTERS  must  be  taken  out  of  the  shells  and  drained 
from  their  liquor,  which  must  be  saved  and  strained;  add 
to  it  one-fourth  of  its  quantity,  whatever  that  may  be, 
of  good  vineg’ar,  a  little  salt,  some  pepper,  and  spice,  such 
as  you  may  choose;  some  prefer  mace.  Simmer  the  oysters 
for  five  or  more  minutes  in  the  liquor  in  a  covered  vessel ; 
take  them  out  of  the  liquor  and  put  them  into  jars ;  when 
the  liquor  is  cold,  strain  it  and  pour  it  over  the  oysters  ; 
if  not  sufficient  to  cover  them  add  a  little  vinegar  to  it. 

Note,  that  some  direct  the  oysters  to  be  freed  from  the 
beards ;  and  some  boil  and  skim  the  pickle  before  adding  it 
j  the  last  time  to  the  oysters;  but  this  will  be  in  general  an 
unnecessary  process ;  and  some  direct  the  oysters  to  be 
boiled  in  the  liquor  for  half  an  hour,  a  sure  way  to  spoil 
them.  See  what  is  said  concerning  oysters  at  pages  100 
and  274. 

One  of  our  Council  of  Cooks  desires  us  to  give  the  fol¬ 
lowing  directions  for  pickling  oysters ;  she  obtained  them 
\  from  Swansea,  and  assures  us  that,  by  following  them 
exactly,  excellent  pickled  oysters  may  be  obtained :  we 
j  give  the  form  verbatim: 

Let  your  oysters  be  opened  into  a  pan  with  all  their 
liquor;  then  wash  them  in  the  same,  strain  the  liquor  and 
put  the  oysters  into  it  again  ;  set  them  over  the  fire,  and 
■  when  the  scum  arises  let  it  be  taken  off ;  put  in  now  some 
whole  pepper,  a  little  sliced  ginger,  a  few  cloves,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  vinegar. 

Note,  not  to  let  them  simmer  more  than  five  minutes, 
or  they  will  become  hard  ;  they  must  be  strained  out  of  the 
liquor  immediately,  which  when  cold  must  be  put  to  them 
in  the  jars. 

COCKLES,  MUSCLES,  and  other  similar  shell  fish 
may  be  pickled  in  the  same  way  as  oysters. 

SALTING,  &c.  General  Observations.  This  is 
beyond  question  the  most  important  section  of  the  present 
Chapter ;  the  cook  will,  consequently,  pay  a  more  than 
ordinary  attention  to  it.  And  here  it  is  necessary  to  ob¬ 
serve  that  very  different  directions,  indeed,  have  been  given  for 
|  the  salting,  and,  consequently,  preservation  of  animal  food. 


348 


SALTING  OF  MEAT. 


Some  say  that  it  should  be  salted  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  animal  is  killed,  and  even  ivhilst  the  meat  is  hot ; 
others,  on  the  contrary,  direct  that  it  should  be  kept  for 
some  time  till  the  meat  becomes  tender ;  now,  we  must 
enter  our  protest  against  both  these  extremes.  We  be¬ 
lieve,  and  experience  warrants  us  in  our  belief,  that  the 
best  time  for  salting  meat  generally  will  be  found  as  soon 
as  it  has  become  completely  cold  after  the  animal  is  killed ; 
if  it  be  kept  till  it  is  tender,  the  probability  will  be  that,  in 
the  glandular  and  more  juicy  parts  of  the  meat,  particu¬ 
larly  in  the  summer  season,  the  process  of  putrefaction 
might  have  begun,  and,  if  so,  it  will  be  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  by  any  process  of  salting,  to  prevent  the  meat 
from  being,  in  some  parts  at  least,  not  only  unpalatable  but 
also  more  or  less  unwholesome.  For  this  reason  in  par¬ 
ticular  it  is  that  we  recommend  the  frugal  housewife  to 
salt  always  her  own  meat,  or  at  least  to  superintend  its 
salting,  by  which  means  she  will  be  assured  of  its  perfect 
wholesomeness ;  she  will  take  care  at  the  same  time  to 
ascertain  that  the  meat  which  she  is  about  to  salt  is  per¬ 
fectly  sweet.  For  want  of  such  precaution  many  a  joint 
has  been  thrown  away.  In  warm  weather  her  attention  in 
this  respect  is  peculiarly  necessary.  We  recommend,  how¬ 
ever,  that  in  very  hot  weather  no  meat  should  be  salted 
if  it  can  possibly  be  avoided;  still,  in  this  respect,  some¬ 
thing  will  depend  upon  the  nature  of  the  pantry  or  other 
place  in  which  the  meat  is  kept,  and  the  salting-  is  per¬ 
formed  :  we  have  known  such  places  to  be  very  cool  and 
airy,  even  in  the  summer  season ;  and,  where  this  con¬ 
dition  is  found,  the  salting  might  answer  very  well.  But 
no  one  ought  to  attempt  to  cure  hams  and  other  delicacies 
in  such  weather.  The  extremes  both  of  heat  and  cold 
should  in  salting  be  equally  avoided. 

If  there  be  any  part  of  the  joint  which  appears  bruised 
and  discoloured,  that  ought,  before  the  joint  is  salted,  to  be 
cut  entirely  out ;  and  it  will  be  also  desirable  to  cut  out  all 
the  kernels  or  glands,  as  these  spoil  sooner  than  the  other 
parts  of  the  meat.  The  salt  should  not  only  be  rubbed 
well  all  over  the  meat  but  into  every  part,  not  only  whence 
the  kernels  have  been  taken,  but  also  where  the  mem¬ 
branes  separate  one  part  of  the  meat  from  another,  so  that 


1 


SALTING  OF  MEAT — BRINE.  349 

as  much  as  possible  the  salt  may  penetrate  throughout  the 
meat.  The  butchers’  skewers  must  be  also  taken  out  and 
the  holes  be  filled  with  salt.  In  regard  to  the  salt  em¬ 
ployed  it  may  be  the  common  salt  met  with  in  the  shops  ; 
yet,  if  it  be  not  convenient  to  cover  the  joint  wholly  with 
strong  brine,  some  bay  salt  may  be  used,  which  will  dis¬ 
solve  more  slowly  than  common  salt ;  see  what  is  said 
under  Common  Salt,  in  page  186,  and  also  in  page  133, 
note ;  see  also  what  is  said  in  the  same  page  in  regard  to 
Saltpetre,  which  must  be  used  when  you  desire  to 
render  your  meat  more  or  less  red.  Sugar  may  be  and  is 
sometimes  employed  in  the  preservation  of  meat ;  but  it  is 
chiefly  used  to  impart  an  agreeable  flavour  to  hams  and 
tongues.— See  those  articles  forward. 

The  Brine  or  Pickle  which  drains  from  meat  during 

{  its  salting,  or  which  was  made  for  it,  used  to  be,  while 
salt  was  dear,  very  commonly  employed  again  in  preserving 
meat  by  being  boiled  for  a  time  more  or  less  long ;  but  as 
salt  is  now  so  cheap,  the  trouble  and  expense  will  not, 
perhaps,  be  often  gone  into.  The  process  is,  however,  a 
simple  and  a  tolerably  efficient  one  for  its  purification ; 
the  addition  of  a  few  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  up  with 
the  brine,  after  its  being  boiled  some  time,  will  more  effec¬ 
tually  purify  it ;  the  scum  which  arises  in  this  second  boil¬ 
ing  must  also  be  taken  off.  In  this  state  it  may  be  ap¬ 
plied  to  almost  any  purpose,  for  which  brine  or  a  saline 
pickle  may  be  wanted. 

1(  When  a  joint  is  salted  it  should  be  turned  every  day, 
and  if  not  covered  with  the  brine  it  should  be  basted  with 
it;  three  or  four  days  or  at  most  a  week,  will  be  quite 
sufficient  for  the  preservation  of  any  moderate  joint ;  if  it 
remain  longer  it  may  become  too  salt,  hard,  and,  conse¬ 
quently,  less  nutricious:  many  persons,  nevertheless,  keep 
meat  a  much  longer  time  in  salt  than  this. 

The  vessels  in  which  meat  is  salted  should  be  either 
I  stone-ware  dishes  or  pans,  or  ivood ;  when  wooden  vessels 
are  employed,  care  must  especially  be  taken  that  they  are 
occasionally  well  cleansed  by  immersion  in  boiling  water ; 
iljor  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  well  scrubbed  all  over  with 
it,  both  inside  and  out,  with  a  hard  brush.  Salted  meat 
IJshould  always  be  kept  in  a  cool  but  airy  place. 


350 


BACON  — IIAM. 


BACON.  Sides  of  pork  are  cut  up  to  be  made  into 
bacon  in  several  ways  ;  some  cut  out  the  hams  and  fore¬ 
legs,  and  all  the  bones  belonging'  to  what  are  usually  called 
the  spare  ribs ;  thus  salted,  the  bacon  has  no  bones  what¬ 
ever  in  it ;  others  salt  both  the  hams  and  fore-legs  together 
with  the  side,  and  hence  we  find,  in  London  in  particular, 
bacon  hams  a  very  common  dish ;  and  we  may  add,  when 
they  are  well  cured,  a  very  good  one.  The  bacon  for  the 
London  market  is  also  usually  cured  with  the  bones  of  the 
spare  rib  in  it ;  but  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  particu¬ 
larly  where  the  pig  is  a  large  one,  the  bones  are  entirely 
cut  out.  Different  opinions  are  entertained  concerning 
these  methods ;  we  shall  not  attempt  to  reconcile  them  ; 
but  good  bacon  must  be  made  in  the  same  way :  we  only 
premise  that  that  which  is  burnt  (see  the  note  concerning 
burnt  bacon,  page  106,)  is,  by  many,  most  esteemed. 

The  side,  the  part  on  which  the  skin  is  being  under¬ 
most,  must  be  laid  in  a  wooden  trough  or  salter,  and 
sprinkled  all  over  with  finely  grained  and  dry  salt ;  it  is 
then  left  for  twenty-four  hours,  during  which  the  blood  and 
some  of  the  juices  of  the  bacon  will  run  from  it :  these 
drainings  must  be  thrown  away.  The  side  must  then  be 
taken  out  of  the  salter  and  wiped  very  dry  ;  next  let  plenty 
of  bay  salt,  previously  made  hot  in  a  frying;-pan  in  order 
to  dry  it,  be  rubbed  well  over  the  side ;  this  rubbing  with 
the  bay  salt  must  be  repeated  for  four  days  successively  ; 
the  side  being  turned  only  every  other  day.  If  the  side  be 
large  it  should  be  kept  in  salt  for  three  weeks,  and  turned 
ten  or  more  times  during  that  period.  It  is  then  to  be 
taken  out  and  dried  by  the  moderate  heat  of  an  open  chim¬ 
ney,  over  an  oven,  or  in  any  other  suitable  manner. 

Note ,  that  if  you  desire  your  bacon  to  be  red  you  must 
add  saltpetre  to  it  in  the  proportion  of  four  ounces 
(powdered  of  course)  to  every  pound  of  salt  employed. 
See  Saltpetre,  page  185;  some,  besides  saltpetre, 
use  raw  sugar.  See  the  General  Observations,  page  349. 

A  HAM.  The  hind  leg  of  a  fat  pig,  being  perfectly 
fresh  and  sweet,  in  order  to  be  made  into  a  ham,  must 
first  have  the  skin  slit  down  upon  the  bone  of  the  hock  end 
three  inches,  the  skin  being  turned  back,  and  the  bone 
of  the  same  length  cut  off,  so  that  when  the  ham  is  hung 


H  A  m  s .  351 

up  to  bo  dried ,  the  skin  may  be  tied  completely  over  the 

one,  care  having-  been  previously  taken  to  salt  well  every 
part  whence  the  bone  came.  This  being  accomplished,  rub 

,  ham  a11  over  Wlth  a  httle  common  salt  made  previously 
dry;  let  it  remain  in  this  state  one  night  that  the  blood 
may  run  off,  and  which  must  be  thrown  away ;  next  wipe 
1  ly;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  brown  raw  sugar,  four 
ounces  of  bay  salt  and  two  ounces  of  saltpetre ;  let  them 

l  -  i  u  ^  7  P0T!dered’  mixed  together,  and  thoroughly 
dried  before  the  fire.  One-half  of  this  mixture  is  to  be 
rubbed  well  into  and  over  the  ham,  and  let  the  other  half 
be  ruobed  into  it  the  following  day.  Set  it  by  in  a  cool 
place  in  a  proper  vessel,  and  turn  the  ham,  basting  it  with 
the  pidde  which  will  run  out  of  it,  every  day  for  three 
weeks  Then,  after  draining  the  pickle  from  it,  shake 
some  bran  over  it,  and  hang  it  up  in  a  chimney  where 
wood  is  burnt,  at  a  moderate  distance  from  the  fire  till  it 
becomes  thoroughly  dry.  The  quantities  of  the  salts  and 
sugar  here  specified,  are  calculated  for  a  ham  of  about  ten 
pounds  weight. 

Note,  that  the  chimney  above  alluded  to  is  the  large 
open  chimney  usually  seen  in  the  kitchens  of  farm-houses 
in  the  country;  in  towns  few  kitchen  chimneys  will  answer 
for  the  purpose  of  drying  hams;  they  are  too  hot ;  bakers 
and  other  persons  there  make  it  their  business  to  dry  hams- 
but  we  fear  not  often  by  the  means  of  wood  smoke. 

One  of  our  Council  of  Cooks  has  cured  hams  by  the 
above  method  for  years,  and  she  thinks  that  she  may  chal¬ 
lenge  the  whole  art  of  cookery  to  equal  it ;  at  any  rate  that 
it  cannot  be  exceeded  :  in  this  opinion  we  coincide. 

Salt  Prunella  being  nothing  more  than  saltpetre  melted 
by  the  aid  of  considerable  heat,  should  never  be  employed 
in  cooking,  as  it  is  not  better  than  if  so  good  as  saltpetre 
powdered  and  dried :  therefore  we  cannot  countenance  its 
employment  in  the  preparation  of  hams,  or  any  thino-  else 

Hams  are  cured  in  many  other  different  ways  :  thus,  we 
are  presented  in  the  books  with  methods  for  the  preparation 
of  Westphalia,  New  England,  Yorkshire,  and 
Westmoreland  hams;  but  as  we  believe  none  of  these 
are  superior  to  our  own  form  above,  we  shall  not  encumber 
our  pages  with  any  of  them.  It  is  true,  more  condiments 


352 


HAMS  —  TONGUES. 


may  be  employed  and  particular  flavours  thus  imparted ; 
and  if  the  cook  desire  such,  her  own  taste  or  fancy  will 
suggest  them :  we  however,  as  in  duty  bound,  must  be 
guided  by  our  sheet-anchor,  simplicity. 

We  would  just  add  here,  we  think,  from  the  experience 
we  have  had,  that  sugar  is  a  better  preservative  of  the 
nutritive  properties  of  animal  food  than  salt ;  it  does  not 
appear  to  have  the  same  tendency  to  make  the  meat  hard  ; 
but  it  is,  of  course,  much  more  expensive  than  salt ; 
it  may  not,  besides,  suit  every  kind  of  meat :  concerning 
this  we  want,  however,  a  knowledge  of  more  facts. 

A  BEEF,  MUTTON,  and  even  a  VEAL  HAM,  may  be 
cured  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  directed  for  pork  hams  ; 
but  we  have  no  reason  to  recommend  any  of  such  pre¬ 
parations. 

A  NEAT’S  TONGUE,  having  all  the  glandular  parts* 
of  the  root  cut  oft",  and  a  deep  cut  being  made  in  the 
under-part  lengthwise  to  admit  the  salt,  must  be  rubbed 
well  all  over  wTith  salt,  and  remain  thus  salted  for  one  or 
two  days,  when  the  blood,  &c.  which  have  drained  from 
it,  must  be  thrown  away.  Wipe  the  tongue  with  a  dry 
cloth  and  salt  it  with  the  same  salts  and  sugar,  and  in  i 
the  same  proportion  as  we  have  directed  for  ham  above. 
Rub  the  tongue  well  with  the  salts  and  sugar,  previously 
powdered  and  well  dried  ;  put  the  tongue  into  your  pickling 
pan  and  turn  it  every  two  days,  adding,  if  necessary, 
some  more  of  the  salt ;  in  a  fortnight  it  will  be  sufficiently 
salted. 

Note,  that  there  are  twro  methods  of  keeping  tongues, 
after  being  thus  preserved ;  one  is  to  treat  them  in  the 
same  way  as  hams  by  drying  them  in  a  chimney,  or  other¬ 
wise  ;  and  the  other  is  by  keeping  them  in  .their  pickle  ; 
the  last  will  be  found  by  far  the  best,  for  it  rarely  happens 
that  when  tongues  are  thoroughly  dried,  they  can  be  again 
restored  to  the  tender  state  in  which  they  are  and  will  be 
when  boiled ;  after  being  immediately  taken  out  of  the 
pickle,  soak  them  before  boiling  as  long  as  you  please ; 
soaking,  however,  for  some  hours  in  water  before  boiling, 
even  tongues  taken  immediately  out  of  the  pickle,  is  ab- 

*  These  are  excellent  for  soup.  See  our  Chapter  on  Souvs. 


HUNG  BEEF — SALT  PORK,  BEEF,  MUTTON.  353 

solutely  necessary  to  render  them  in  the  best  state  for 
being-  eaten  :  dried  tongues  will,  of  course,  require  more 
soaking. 

And  note  also  that  the  pickle  in  which  hams  have  Iain 
will  be  very  convenient  (after  boiling,  as  directed  above,) 
for  tongues,  with  a  very  slight  addition  of  fresh  salt  and 
'  sugar. 

HUNG  BEEF.  Take  any  piece  of  beef  you  please, 

'  some  prefer  the  navel  piece ;  salt  it  in  precisely  the  same 
way  as  directed  for  ham  above,  and  keep  it  in  salt  for  about 
the  same  period.  Dry  it  also  in  the  same  way.  When  it 
is  wanted  boil  it  till  it  is  tender. 

Note. — That  some  direct  blood  to  be  washed  over  the 

a.K] 

beef  during  its  drying  to  make  it  of  a  dark  colour  ;  but  this 
,  is  surely  a  useless  piece  of  art.  Hung  beef  will  require  long- 
soaking  and  boiling  to  be  eatable  :  we  do  not  much  admire 
it,  more  especially  if,  before  being  salted,  the  beef  has  been 
hung-  in  a  cellar,  as  some  of  the  books  direct,  till  it  becomes 
“  a  little  sappy.” — Sappy  indeed  must  he  be  who  desires 
or  directs  the  preparation  of  such  a  dish  ! 

PORK  as  well  as  Beef  and  Mutton  may  be  salted 
according  to  our  General  Directions  for  salting  above. 
We  say  nothing  of  the  addition  of  other  condiments,  be- 
ieving  as  wre  do  that  those  we  have  mentioned  are  the  only 
articles  necessary  for  the  effectual  preservation  of  meat ;  and 
that  imparting  particular  tastes  by  condiments  will  generally 
letract  more  or  less  from  the  peculiar  taste  that  every  kind 
)f  meat  has,  and  which  it  is  desirable  as  much  as  possible  to 


;jj 

it 

ipr-1  i 


^reserve. 


Note. — That  although  beef  and  pork  when  sufficiently 
salted,  may  be  dried  and  preserved  in  a  similar  way  to  hams, 
t  is  the  usual  and  the  best  method  to  keep  them  in  their 
oickle  till  they  are  wanted,  for  the  same  reason  that  wre 
lave  assigned  under  tongue ;  and  also  because  it  is  unques- 
ionably  the  most  convenient  as  it  saves  both  time  and 
6  rouble. 

From  what  has  been  said  in  this  section  every  other  kind 
f  meat,  Venison,  Game,  and  Birds,  may  be  readily, 
f  desired,  preserved. 

TRIPE  SOUSED.  Boil  tripe  and  keep  it  in  a  pickle 


354 


SAUSAGE  MEAT — SAUSAGES. 


of  salt  and  water  changed  every  day  till  you  want  the  tripe, 
which  must  then  be  treated  in  a  similar  way  as  directed  under 
Fried  Tripe  page  74;  or  it  may  be  boiled  in  salt  and 
water ;  serve  it  up  as  directed  in  the  same  page. 

PIGS  FEET  AND  EARS  SOUSED  must  be  boiled 
till  they  are  tender ;  the  feet  being  split,  put  both  into  a 
pickle  of  salt  and  water.  When  wanted,  fry  them  in  batter 
as  directed  for  tripe. 

Other  articles  may  be  soused  in  the  same  way  as  the 
preceding ;  but  sousing  is  not  a  process  to  which  many 
persons  will  resort ;  it  does  not  seem  to  have  any  particular  i 
recommendation. 

SAUSAGE  MEAT  is  made  either  with  Pork,  Beef,  or 
Veal,  or  Veal  and  Pork  mixed;  it  consists  chiefly  of  the 
lean  of  the  respective  articles,  separated  from  the  mem¬ 
branes  and  gristles,  minced  fine  and  afterwards  mixed  with 
salt  and  such  other  condiments  as  the  taste  or  fancy  of  the 
cook  may  direct.  Pork  sausage  meat  and  sausages  are, 
however,  most  in  demand.  In  London  Epping  sausages, 
which  consist  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  of  pork,  are  here  most 
esteemed  ;  but  Oxford  sausages  are  also  in  good  repute. 
It  is  usual  to  inclose  the  sausage  meat  in  skins  or  guts 
well  cleansed,  particularly  in  the  metropolis ;  but  they  are 
sometimes  made  into  cakes  or  rolls  without  any  covering: 
a  tea  cup  or  other  vessel  having  a  circular  edge  is  very  con¬ 
venient  for  forming  the  cakes  after  the  sausage  meat  has  \ 
been  previously  rolled  out  with  the  rolling  pin.  Sausages  j 
are  best  fried  or  broiled;  and  we  may  just  observe  that  those  j 
made  of  Beef  are  the  most  nutricious;  that  salt  and,  perhaps, 
a  little  pepper  are  the  only  condiments  which  they  require : 
but  fashion  dictates  otherwise.  Sheeps’  or  other  small  guts 
are  those  usually  employed.  See  the  next  article. 

PORK  SAUSAGES.  Some  make  them  chiefly  with 
the  lean  of  pork,  and  a  little  of  the  fat  mixed  with  it,  anc 
condiments  of  course  ;  others  direct  two  thirds  lean  and  one 
third  fat ;  and  others  again  equal  parts  of  lean  and  fat 
while  some  take  two  parts  of  the  lean  and  one  part  of  the 
fat  of  pork  and  one  of  beef  suet.  Whatever  proportions  art 
chosen  they  must  be  all  finely  minced  and  mixed  with  salt 
spices,  &c. :  some  use  a  considerable  portion  of  powderee 


SAUSAGES  —  PRESERVATION  OF  V  EG  ET  A  B  LES.  355 

>r  minced  sage ;  others,  shalots,  onions,  truffles,  parsley, 
md  sweet  herbs,  as  well  as  pepper  and  nutmeg ;  some 
employ  saltpetre  ;  and  some  will  add  wine  and  a  minced 
nchovy. 

‘  Note.—' That  when  sausages  are  fried,  not  being  in  skins, 
ome  dip  them  in  egg  and  roll  them  in  flour  ;  but  this  is  an 
mnecessary  process.  See  what  is  said  under  Sausages 
>age  76.  And  note  also  that  if  sausage  meat  is  designed  to 
>e  kept  for  some  time,  it  should  be  salted  higher  than  when 
ntended  for  immediate  dressing ;  it  should  be  also  pressed 
own  closely  into  a  jar  and  be  kept  from  the  air  in  a 
ool  place. 

OXFORD  SAUSAGES  are  said  to  be  composed  of 
oung  pork,  both  fat  and  lean,  one  pound,  the  same  quan- 
ty  of  veal  and  of  beef  suet,  half  a  pound  of  bread  grated, 
7ith  sage,  grated  lemon  peel,  salt,  savory,  pepper,  and  sweet 
erbs. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGES  consist  of  equal  quantities  of 
ork,  bacon,  veal,  beef,  and  beef  suet,  and  grated  bread; 
ae  whole  must  be  minced  and  seasoned  well  with  sage, 
weet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  meat  thus  prepared 
kto  guts  and  boil  them  gently  for  an  hour,  having  previously 
ricked  them  with  some  sharp  instrument  in  order  that  the 
as  which  is  generated  during  the  boiling  may  escape. 
)ry  them  on  straw  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place. 

For  Savaloys,  see  Cervelas  Fumes,  page  140. 
BEEF  SAUSAGES.  The  lean  of  beef  must  be  minced 
ith  a  suitable  quantity  of  beef  suet,  and  grated  bread, 
tasoned  with  what  condiments  you  choose,  not  omitting 
idt.  See  what  is  said  under  Sausage  Meat  and  Pork 
A  us  ages  above. 

PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES.  A  few  ob- 
irvations  on  this  subject  may  be  useful,  although,  perhaps, 
'me  of  our  readers  may  not  require  them. 

POTATOES,  when  taken  out  of  the  ground  and  not 
;signed  for  immediate  use,  should  be  deposited,  without 
;ing  washed,  in  a  cool  and  dry  place  where  there  is  no  pos- 
bility  of  their  becoming  frozen.  In  the  country,  and  in  the 
Fge  way,  they  are  usually  thus  preserved.  A  hole  being 
•st  dug  a  foot  or  more  deep  in  the  ground,  generally  in  the 
,rden  or  place  where  they  grew,  the  potatoes  are  put  in  and 


356 


PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES. 


formed  into  conical  Leaps,  which  are  covered  with  straw, 
then  with  a  thick  coat  of  earth,  and  to  this  is  sometimes 
added  a  roof  of  thatch.  In  ordinary  seasons  this  process 
will  be  sufficient  to  keep  them  through  the  winter  provided 
they  are  at  the  same  time  kept  dry  ;  but  in  intense  frost 
it  frequently  happens  that  many  potatoes  thus  preserved 
are  spoiled.  To  obviate  this  we  have  recommended  (see  the 
Family  Cyclopaedia,  article  Potatoe)  a  mud-wall 
house,  in  which  they  may  be  more  effectually  preserved. 

OTHER  ROOTS,  such  as  Parsnips,  Carrots,  Beet, 
&c.  are  best  preserved,  after  being  taken  out  of  the  ground, 
in  dry  sand  and  in  a  dry  and  cool  place,  the  earth  which 
remains  about  them  not  being  removed. 

ONIONS  may  be  kept  either  upon  the  floor  of  a  dry 
and  cool  rooom,  or  hung  up  in  traces  in  the  same  place. 

APPLES,  PEARS,  &c.  may  be  also  effectually  kept)'! 
according-  to  their  kind  and  time  of  ripening  on  the  floor  of 
a  cool  and  dry  room,  where  little  if  any  alteration  occurs  in 
the  temperature.*  They  should  be  looked  over  occasionally, 
and  those  which  are  decayed  or  beginning  to  decay,  picked 
out,  as  they  will  infect  the  sound  ones.  They  should  not 
be  kept  in  heaps,  and,  if  possible,  not  one  upon  another.  If 
by  any  accident  apples  should  become  frozen ,  they  should 
be  immediately  inclosed  in  a  wooden  box,  so  that  they  may 
thus  gradually  become  thawed :  for  if  exposed  to  the  heat 
of  the  atmosphere  when  a  thaw  takes  place,  they  will  most 
probably  all  become  spoiled. 

GRAPES  may  be  preserved  by  hanging  the  bunches 
up  in  a  dry  room  with  a  joint  of  the  stalk  to  them.  But 
grapes  imported  from  the  south  of  Europe  are  now,  at  least 
in  London,  so  readily  to  be  obtained,  and  generally  so  cheap, 
that  the  trouble  of  thus  preserving  the  produce  of  our  own 
climate  is,  in  great  measure,  superseded. 

SHALOTS  being  dried  may  be  kept  in  paper  bags  in  a 
dry  cool  place  ;  so  also  may  Artichoke  Bottoms  ;  dried 
Lemon  Peel  as  well  as  Truffles,  Morels,  &c.  should 
be  kept  in  bags  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

*  The  curious  in  these  matters  may  possibly  be  more  particular 
and  preserve  the  apples  and  pears  packed  in  dry  sand  in  suitable 
jars,  each  being  rolled  up  in  paper.  But  this  is  a  process  to 
which  few  economical  persons  will,  we  conclude,  submit. 


PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES.  357 

CABBAGES,  being  freed  from  most  of  the  coarsest 
jleaves,  may  be  kept  for  some  time  on  a  cool  stone  floor. 

CAULIFLOWERS,  which  are  often  to  be  obtained  in 
great  perfection  towards  the  end  of  October,  may  be  taken 
carefully  up  with  the  spade,  keeping  a  ball  of  earth  attached 
to  the  roots  and  arranged  in  a  peach-house  or  vinery  or 
other  similar  situation  in  borders  without  touching  each 
other,  some  of  the  large  outside  leaves  being  taken  off,  or 
they  may  be  kept  in  hot -bed  frames. 

CABBAGES  and  many  other  veg-etables  of  the  cabbage 
.ribe,  as  well  as  Leeks,  Endive,  and  Lettuces,  may  be 
preserved  in  a  similar  way  to  cauliflowers,  particularly  when 
the  weather  is  severe ;  and  in  this  case  a  cold  but  not 
freezing  cellar  may,  perhaps,  in  winter  answer  the  purpose 
juite  as  well  as  a  peach-house  or  vinery. 

A  method  of  preserving  Cabbage  is  described  in 
nany  of  our  Cookery  Books  ;  but  it  is  not  likely  that  it 
will  be  adopted  in  this  country  because  we  can  have  fresh 
cabbage  at  every  season  without  such  art.  The  article  pre¬ 
served  is  called  Sour  Crout  or  Sour  Craut.  It  con¬ 
sists  in  cutting  the  white  heart  of  cabbage  into  slips,  and 
hen  packing  them  in  layers  in  a  cask  with  salt  in  the  pro¬ 
portion  of  about  one  pound  of  salt  to  ten  of  cabbage ;  but 
some  employ  much  less  salt  than  this  ;  when  the  cask  is 
learly  full  the  cabbage  is  pressed  down  close ;  some  add 
condiments,  such  as  pepper,  juniper-berries,  and  coriander 
seeds  to  it.  When  the  sour  crout  is  dressed,  it  is  previously 
soaked  in  water  for  some  hours  and  then  stewed  with 
iacon,  cervelas,  or  sausages,  gravy,  onions,  pepper,  &c. 

Note. — This  is  a  German  dish  ;  we  have  no  disposition 
o  recommend  it.  It  may  possibly,  however,  suit  the  store- 
oom  of  a  ship  bound  on  a  long  voyage. 

FRENCH  BEANS,  gathered  when  tender,  may  be  pre¬ 
served  a  long  time  by  packing  them  in  a  stone-pot  in  layers 
alternately  with  layers  of  salt.  They  must  be  well  covered 
rom  the  air,  and  be  kept  in  a  cool  place.  When  to  be 
Iressed  they  should  be  soaked  in  water  twenty-four  hours, 
md  then  treated  in  every  other  respect  as  fresh  beans. 

Note,  that  the  chief  care  requisite  in  preserving  French 
leans  is  that  you  do  not  put  too  much  salt :  they  should  be 
•ell  pressed  down  in  the  pot;  a  slate  of  the  size  of  the 


358 


PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES. 


mouth  of  the  pot  should  be  laid  over  them,  on  which  some 
will  place  a  heavy  stone  or  other  weight. 

GREEN  PEAS,  being1  young  and  shelled,  may  be  boiled 
for  a  few  minutes  in  salt  and  water,  then  drained  and  dried 
thoroughly  in  a  cloth  ;  bottle  them,  and  cover  the  top  with 
mutton  fat  fried ;  cork  them  close,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool 
place.  They  may  be  dressed  in  a  similar  wTay  to  other 
green  peas. 

Note,  that  some  direct  them  after  being  scalded  to  be 
dried  in  a  slow  oven;  and  when  wanted,  to  be  soaked  in 
water  as  other  dry  peas.  We  agree  with  Mrs.  Dods  that, 
after  all,  they  are  but  “  the  ghosts  of  green  pease.” 

RIPE  WALNUTS,  freed  from  their  husks,  may  be  kept 
between  layers  of  sand  in  ajar.  When  wanted  to  be  eaten, 
lay  them  in  warm  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  and  they  will 
peel  as  well  as  when  they  were  put  into  the  jar. 

Concerning  the  preservation  of  Parsley,  see  what  is 
said  in  page  191. 

To  conclude  this  section  on  the  Preservation  of  Vege¬ 
tables;  the  cook  ought  to  be,  after  all,  thoroughly  per¬ 
suaded  that  “  there  is  a  time  and  a  season  for  every  thing,” 
for  vegetables  especially,  and  that,  how  agreeable  soever  it 
may  be,  as  a  matter  of  curiosity  or  of  rarity,  to  lay  upon 
the  table  at  Christmas  Green  Peas  or  French  Beans, 
these,  and  indeed  every  other  vegetable  produced  by  the 
genial  breath  and  fructifying  showers  of  spring  and  summer, 
are  never,  even  if  produced  by  the  aid  of  a  hot-house,  equal 
to  the  productions  of  nature  in  the  open  air  during  that 
season  which  is  peculiar  to  their  respective  vegetation ; 
much  less,  therefore,  can  we  expect  to  retain  Vegetables  in 
the  actual  state  in  which  we  find  them  in  the  spring  and 
summer  by  any  art  whatever.  In  the  vegetable,  as  well  as 
the  animal  world, 

“  All,  all  is  change.” 

Even  Fruits,  which  ripen  slowly,  many  of  them  long 
after  they  are  gathered  from  the  tree,  when  once  they  are 
become  ripe,  soon  go  into  decay,  unless  they  are  kept  at  or 
near  the  freezing  point,  or  are  preserved  with  sugar ;  and 
neither  sugar  nor  salt  is  well  calculated  to  preserve  green 
vegetables  in  their  primitive  condition.  In  this  country 


PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES. 


359 


we  all  know  that  one  of  the  most  highly  stimulating  proper¬ 
ties  of  the  air,  namely  oxygen ,  is  in  the  greatest  abundance 
when  vegetation  is  in  its  highest  state  of  excitement,  and 
that  this,  together  with  the  exciting  stimulus  of  light , 

,  which  contributes  so  much  to  the  healthy  condition  of 
,  vegetables,  can  never  be  effectually  supplied  to  any  of  these 
in  the  winter  season  ;  and,  therefore,  all  vegetables,  artifi¬ 
cially  deprived  of  light  and  pure  air,  must  be  more  or  less 
diseased,  and,  in  some  cases,  are  rendered  less  wholesome. 
It  is  true  wTe  blanch  celery  and  a  few  other  culinary  plants, 
to  render  them  more  pleasantly  edible  ;  but  wdthout  a  con- 
i  siderable  accession  of  light  and  air,  even  these  wmuld  never 
arrive  at  the  desired  condition.  They  are,  besides,  excep¬ 
tions  and  not  rules.  We  know  also  that  the  highest  office 
of  vegetable  life  consists  in  the  perfection  of  the  seed ,  and 
this  never  arrives  at  that  state  without  the  aid  of  much 
light  and  a  considerable  portion  of  pure  air,  administer  to  it 
wffiat  artificial  heat  we  please. 

Note,  that  since  the  observations  on  cabbage,  both  in 
the  note  and  in  the  text,  in  pages  218  and  219,  have  been 
printed,  wTe  have  seen  wdiat  Dr.  Paris  says  (Dietetics, 
in  the  Cyclopedia  of  Practical  Medicine ,)  concerning 
Cabbage;  and,  as  we  are  sincerely  desirous  of  promoting 
the  diffusion  of  every  kind  of  knowledge  which  may,  by 
possibility,  be  useful  concerning  food,  we  embrace  the 
opportunity,  which  a  blank  half-page  affords,  to  state  what 
the  Doctor  says.  “  The  cabbage  tribe  appear  to  contain  a 
peculiar  essential  oil,  whence  the  unpleasant  odour  of  cab¬ 
bage  water ;  this  matter  is  liable  to  produce  offensive  effects 
on  the  stomach :  the  vegetable  should  therefore  be  boiled 
in  two  successive  waters,  in  order  to  free  it  entirely  from 
the  noxious  ingredient,  and  at  the  same  time  to  render  its 
texture  soft  and  digestible.” 

See,  also,  what  is  said  concerning  cabbage  in  page  222  ; 
and  again  in  pages  344,  345,  and  357. 


CHAPTER  XV. 


BAKING,  BREWING,  CYDER,  WINES,  DISTILLATION, 
WATERS,  SPIRITS,  LIQUEURS,  &C.  ;  MEDICINAL 
cookery,  poisons;  USEFUL  RECIPES. 


Press  onward  to  the  Temple!  Girt  with  care. 

Through  maze  and  mire  and  many  a  thorny  path. 

As  humblest  pioneers,  your  willing  guides. 

Thus  far  have  we,  most  anxiously,  presum’d. 

Here,  with  no  small  delight,  YE  may  rejoice  : 

For  on  your  vision  shall,  ere  long,  arise 
The  pleasant  dawning  of  a  better  day. 

Even  now  the  twilight  of  that  day  begins  ; 

And  YE  may  see,  what  time  the  darkness  flies. 

Truths  all  important  to  your  Happiness. 

Press  onward  to  the  Temple! — Yet  awhile 
Here  would  we  have  you  linger  to  survev 
The  goodly  groves,  the  various  fruitful  vales 
Amid  the  which  that  pleasant  TEMPLE  stands, 

Where  SCIENCE*  sits,  serene  in  simple  garb,  . 

Imparting  lessons  to  the  sons  of  men  ; 

And  where,  amid  her  ministers  in  chief,  '* 

Stands  active  CHEMISTRY  that  to  the  ARTS  ti 

Of  Daily  Life  is  adding  evermore. 

Press  onward  to  that  Temple!  Heed  YE  not 
Those  Learned  Speculations  which  amuse 
The  Idle  and  the  Vain — those  silly  gauds  ! — 

Let  Facts  that  unto  Useful  Knowledge  lead — 

Let  Practical  Results  employ  your  care. 

Press  onward  to  the  Temple!  .  3 

_  ■  ji 

3 

General  Observations.  In  all  the  preceding  chap¬ 
ters  of  our  work,  we  have  often  been  compelled  to  depart, 
most  reluctantly,  from  the  views  which  we  have  taken  of 
the  utilities  and  simplicities  of  cookery.  We  are  now, 

*  “  Science  is  knowledge  reduced  to  a  system,  so  as  to  be 
conveniently  taught,  easily  remembered,  and  readily  applied.”— 
Lord  Brougham. 


BREAD. 


361 


S  however,  arrived  at  a  more  elevated,  more  dignified  spot : 
for,  although  we  have  not  failed,  as  opportunity  offered, 
to  show  the  incongruity  of  many  dishes  and  their  ill  ac¬ 
cordance  with  health,  and  with  all  the  known  principles 
of  Chemistry,*  we  have  had  no  opportunity  of  ob¬ 
serving,  as  in  this  Chapter,  that  all  the  processes, 
namely,  those  of  baking,  of  brewing ,  of  cyder-making , 
of  the  making  of  wines ,  and  of  distillation,  are  strictly 
and  emphatically  chemical  processes  ;  and  he  who 
carries  them  on,  in  the  closest  accordance  with  chemical 
'principles,  will  assuredly  succeed  best.  It  will  be,  there¬ 
fore,  our  aim  here  to  develope,  as  simply  and  as  concisely 
as  possible,  the  principles  upon  which  the  arts  that  we  are 
now  about  to  teach  are  founded ;  and  if  the  cook  shall  not 
feel  gratification  at  the  new  view  which  she  will  be  enabled 
to  take  of  all  these  processes,  we  shall  be,  indeed,  greatly 
disappointed. 

And  first,  in  regard  to  the  BAKING  of  BREAD,  we 
request  that  reference  be  made  to  what  is  said  under  the 
General  Observations,  page  197,  and  again  in  pages 
198  and  199,  under  Sugar,  Starch,  and  Gluten  ; 
and  also  under  Wheat  in  page  204,  as  -well  as  in  many 
subsequent  pages ;  a  careful  attention  to  these  will  render 
what  we  are  now  about  to  advance  much  more  intelligible 
and  useful.  There  are  also  many  observations  relative  to 
this  subject  in  our  twelfth  chapter,  to  which  attention 
should  be  given;  and  also  to  those  under  Pies,  in  page 
265. 

And  here,  as  a  preliminary  of  some  importance,  we 
must  observe  that,  in  the  analysis  of  wheat  made  by  Sir 
H  mphry  Davy,  and  given  in  page  204,  from  his 
Elements  of  Agricultural  Chemistry ,  no  mention  is  made 
)f  sugar;  and  this  is  very  remarkable.  From  his  known 
eminence  as  a  chemist,  many  persons  might  be  disposed  to 
•ely  upon  his  statement.  Whence  so  singular  a  result 
•ould  arise  we  cannot  divine ;  but,  from  almost  every  other 
source,  we  learn  that  wheat  does  contain  a  portion  of 

*  Chemistry  is,  at  once,  the  most  universal  and  the  most  useful 
f  all  the  natural  sciences,  and  with  all  other  natural  science  is 
,nd  ever  must  be  intimately  and  indissolubly  connected. 

R 


362 


BREAD. 


sugar;*  and  that  it  is  owing  to  sugar  chiefly,  if  not 
entirely,  that  it  so  readily  goes,  when  moistened  with  water, 
into  fermentation.  From  an  analysis  of  wheat  by  Mr. 
Edlin,  four  drachms  avoirdupoise  of  sugar  were  obtained 
from  one  pound  of  flour.  It  is  extremely  probable  that 
sugar  occasionally  exists  in  wheat  in  much  larger  quantity 
than  this,  or,  if  not,  that  some  of  the  starch  which  wheat 
contains  is  converted  into  sugar  during  the  process  of  fer¬ 
mentation. 

From  analyses  of  and  experiments  on  different  grains 
and  other  vegetables  used  in  making  fermented  bread,  it 
has  been  found  that  those  only  make  the  best  bread  which 
contain,  besides  starch  and  sugar,  a  considerable  quantity 
of  gluten,  (see  page  199;)  which  last  appears  to  retain  in 
a  gaseous  state  for  some  time,  a  portion  of  the  carbonic 
acid ,  (see  forwards,  under  our  article  Brewing,)  that  is 
disengaged  during  the  fermentation  of  the  dough,  as  well 
as  during  the  baking  of  the  bread ;  so  that,  when  the  pro¬ 
cess  of  Baking  is  completed,  cells  are  formed  in  the  bread, 
and  the  more  numerous  and  moderately  large  these  are 
the  more  perfect  will  the  bread  be ;  it  is,  at  the  same  time, 
thus  rendered  most  suitable  for  the  process  of  digestion. 
But  this  is  not  all :  for  new  bread,  however  well  baked, 
is  not  proper  for  many  stomachs ;  indeed  it  is  improper  for 
most ;  (see  page  206.)  This  fact  proves  that  there  is  some¬ 
thing  injurious  which  escapes  from  the  bread  during-  its 
cooling,  and  for  some  hours  afterwards ;  or,  that  the  bread 
undergoes  some  other  change  which  renders  it  more  suit¬ 
able  for  the  stomach.  Hot  bread  therefore  as  well  as 
hot  rolls  ought  invariably  to  be  avoided  by  those  who 
desire  to  avoid  the  inconveniences  .attendant  on  a  morbid 
distention  of  the  stomach,  and  other,  and  often  distressing, 
dyspeptic  symptoms. 

There  is  also  one  other  condition  in  the  making  of  good 
bread  which  is  of  very  considerable  importance,  namely, 
that  it  must  be  properly  and  sufficiently  baked:  for  be 
your  flour  and  your  yeast  of  the  best  quality,  be  the  fer- 

*  We  ought,  however,  here  to  state  that  Dr.  Paris  (in  “  Cyclo¬ 
pedia  of  Practical  Medicine,”  article  Dietetics,)  calls  that  which 
we  here  denominate  sugar,  “  a  mucilaginous  saccharine  matter." 


bread.  3,33 

rfn'iT  r:r°  Wel1  C0nducted’  y°m-  well  kneaded 
and  put  into  the  oven,  yet,  if  the  heat  be  not  sufficient  to 

raise  it  well,  it  will  be  more  or  less  unwholesome.  This 
ib  a  point  that  requires  a  further  elucidation.  A  verv  con- 
S!  •emib  o  portion  of  the  bread  made  in  the  metropolis  and 
elsewhere  is  not  sufficiently  baked,  and  it  is,  in  con¬ 
sequence,  often  unfit  for  the  stomach,  particularly  where 
here  is  a  disposition  to  dyspepsia ;  we  are  well  convinced 
that  persons  surfer  continually  from  acidities  in  that  oro-an 
which  are  produced,  chiefly  if  not  entirely,  from  incom¬ 
pletely  baked  bread ;  and  that  they  suffer,  very  frequently 
without  the  least  suspicion  that  their  sufferings  are  pro¬ 
duced  by  the  bread.  It  should  be  also  observed  that  the 
I  two-pound  loaves  are  almost  always  insufficiently  baked  • 

:  his  arises  from  the  fact,  that  those  are  put  into  the  oven 
last,  aild  are,  therefore,  not  submitted  to  the  same  heat  • 
being-  less  they  do  not  require  so  much  time  as  the  laro-er 
|  .?aVe'!.’  wlllch  are  generally  much  better  baked,  and  are 
.  therefore,  more  wholesome  than  the  small  ones.  The  best 
baked  bread  to  be  obtained  in  the  metropolis  is  that  baked 
in  tins ;  some  of  such  is  called  French  bread,  the  cells  in 
!  which  are  considerably  larger  than  those  in  the  ordinary 
loaves.  1  here  has  been  also  lately  introduced  what  is  called 
fetr°P0htan  Bread,  (see  page  372,)  which,  as  far  as  we 
nave  had  an  opportunity  of  observing  it,  is  at  once  well 
;  lermented,  well  baked,  and  wholesome.  We  have  men¬ 
tioned  one  mode  of  rendering  bread  more  wholesome  by 
converting  it  into  dry  toast,  (see  page  206 ;)  yet  even  the 
,  coasting  of  imperfectly  fermented  or  imperfectly  baked 
‘  bread  ^Vl!!  not  enth-ely  obviate  its  bad  qualities.  We  con- 
!  sider  the  baking  of  bread  in  tins  a  very  great  improvement 
m  the  application  of  the  heat:  for  bread,  however  well 
baked,  has  oftentimes  some  of  its  outside  hard  and  horny 
not  being  converted  into  crust,  near  the  parts  where  the 
loaves  come  in  contact  with  each  other;  and  the  horny 
parts  will  very  often  disagree  with  the  stomach.  This 
proves,  we  think,  that  one  of  the  most  important  offices 
0  ^be  fermentation  is  that  of  minutely  separating  the 
gluten  of  the  bread.  (See  page  207 /note.)  By  the 
baking  of  bread  in  tins  the  occurrence  of  horny  bread  is 
Wholly  prevented. 

r  2 


364 


BREAD. 

Dr.  Paris  says,  that  “  bread  differs  very  completely 
from  the  flour  of  which  it  is  made;  for  none  of  the  in¬ 
gredients  of  the  latter  can  be  discovered  in  it :  it  is  muc  i 
more  miscible  with  water  than  dough ;  and  on  this  circum¬ 
stance  its  good  qualities,  most  probably,  in  great  measure 
depend.”  He  admits,  however,  “  that  it  »  not  easy  to 
explain  the  chemical  changes  which  have  taken  place^ 


See  a  note  forward,  page  370,  where  it  will  be  seen  that 
water  exists  in  large  quantity  in  perfectly  fermented  bread 
adding  considerably  to  its  weight;  but  we  beg  leave  re¬ 
spectfully  to  doubt  whether  all  the  proximate  principles 
of  flour  undergo  so  complete  a  change  in  the  making  of 
bread  as  this  able  and  scientific  physician  states. + 

The  necessity,  therefore,  of  bread  being  both  wel  er- 
mented  and  well  baked,  will  be,  hence,  apparent.  The  fine¬ 
ness  of  flour  in  bread  is  of  far  less  importance  than  it  is 

commonly  supposed  to  be;  while  its  due  fermentation  and 
a  proper  degree  of  heat  are  of  the  first  consequence :  well 
fermented  and  well-baked  bread,  although  coarse  suits  the 
stomach  much  better  than  the  finest  bread  when  ill  fer- 

mented  or  ill  baked.  .  .  ,  ,  . 

The  decree  of  heat  and  the  time  of  retaining  bread  in 

the  oven  are,  therefore,  deserving  of  the  utmost  attention. 
From  the  most  accurate  observations  it  appears  that  the 


*  Cvclovcedia  of  Practical  Medicine,  article  Dietetics. 

+  The  saccharine  matter  is,  we  make  no  question,  decomposed, 
and  very  possibly,  some  of  the  starch  might  be  converted  into 
“  „  2d  in  like  manner  decomposed;  but  we  do  question 
whether  the  gluten  be  further  changed  than  in  being  combined 

with  water  and  finely  attenuated.  As  starch  is  so  readily  solut 
in  boiling  water  we  can  easily  understand  that,  on  being  sub¬ 
jected  to°the  heat  of  a  baker’s  oven,  the  water  in  the  dough  will 
combine  with  it  and  form  a  mucilage;  and,  when  in  this  state,  we 
see  why  the  crumb  of  bread  so  soon  becomes  mouldy  andspoi ils, 
fnrt  connected  with  the  subject  of  biead  .  lor 

SSTf,  ±i  ^tfwbles»mt  so  ruu'Sra'fpeV; 

fermented  and  recently  baked  bread,  twenty-four  hours  or  more 
old. 


BREAD. 


365 

heat  of  the  oven  ought  to  be  at  about  the  450th  degree  of 
Fahrenheit’s  thermometer ;  that  is,  considerably  more  than 
double  the  heat  of  boiling  water,  which  is  212°.  The  bakers 
do  not  often  use  the  thermometer ;  but  they  reckon  the 
oven  sufficiently  heated  when  flour  thrown  on  the  floor  of  it 
becomes  black  very  soon  without  taking  fire.  But  there  is 
another  way  by  which  the  heat  of  an  oven  can  be,  in  some 
measure,  ascertained.  It  will  be  observed  that,  during-  the 
burning  of  the  fire  which  is  kindled  in  it  to  heat  it,  a  con¬ 
siderable  quantity  of  black  matter,  carbon ,  stains  various 
parts  of  the  oven;  now,  when  the  oven  approaches  the  heat 
which  is  necessary,  those  black  stains  gradually  disappear ; 
and,  at  length,  when  it  has  acquired  its  necessary  heat, 
the  black  stains  will  be  wholly  gone,  and  all  the  sides,  floor, 
and  roof,  be  equally  hot,  while  the  fire  itself  will  be  perfectly 
bright  and  clear :  the  heat  being  then  sufficient  to  combine 
the  carbon  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air,  and  thus  the  carbon, 
being-  converted  into  carbonic  acid ,  is  carried  away. 
The  time  in  which  bread  should  be  kept  in  the  oven  is 
about  two  hours  and  a  half ;  sometimes  more.  But,  of 
course,  if  the  loaves  be  small,  they  will  not  require  so 
much  as  this.  The  cook’s  discretion  must,  therefore, 
in  baking,  be  always  on  the  alert.  (See  forwards, 
page  373.) 

As  wheat  contains  gluten  in  larger  quantity  than  any 
other  grain,  mankind  have  long  since  practically  acquired  a 
knowledge  of  the  fact  that  it  makes  the  best  and  most 
nutritious  bread.  We  are,  notwithstanding,  indebted  more 
t  especially  to  the  researches  of  the  last  fifty  years  for  the 
more  complete  analysis  of  wheat  and  other  grains  ;  although 
Lewis,  Materia  Medica,  article  Frumentum,  quoting 
Rouelle,  Journ.  de  Med.  1773,  informs  us  that  one  of 
the  constituents  of  grain  is  “  a  glutinous  vegeto-animal 
matter;”  which  is,  we  conclude,  what  modern  science 
denominates  gluten*  Wheat  is,  for  this  reason,  most 

*  “  Gluten  submitted  to  destructive  distillation  affords  am¬ 
monia,  and  is,  in  other  respects,  similar  to  the  animal  principle 
called  albumen.”  Bkande.  It  has  been  separated  by  some  mo¬ 
dern  chemists  into  two  substances,  one  of  which  is  called  gliadine, 
the  other  zirnone;  but  it  is  not  necessary  that  we  should  here  de¬ 
scribe  these  substances.  What  is  most  remarkable  in  gluten,  be- 


366 


BREAD. 


commonly  employed  for  the  making  of  Bread.  It  is  said 
that,  although  wheat  will  grow  in  the  latitude  of  60°  north, 
and  produce  good  crops  in  that  climate,  the  grain  improves 
in  quality  as  we  advance  towards  the  south ;  that  the  wheat 
of  the  south  of  England  is  better  than  that  raised  in  Scot¬ 
land  ;  that  French  wheat  is  superior  to  English  ;  Italian  to 
French  ;  and  that  the  best  wheat  is,  probably,  raised  in 
Egypt  and  Barbary.  Thin-skinned  Sicilian  wheat,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Sir  Humphry  Davy,  contains  239  parts  in  a  thou¬ 
sand  of  gluten.  Spring  wheat  affords,  according  to  the 
same  authority,  240  parts  of  gluten.  (See  page  204). 

But  although  wheat  is  a  grain  usually,  in  this  country  at 
least,  converted  into  bread,  others  are  occasionally  employed 
for  this  purpose.  Rye,  after  w'heat,  is  said  to  be  the  best. 
(See  Rye,  page  209.)  Beans  contain  a  considerable  quan¬ 
tity  of  gluten,  and  may  be  therefore  made  also  into  bread  ; 
(see  Beans,  page  211).  Bari.ey  is  also  occasionally  made 
into  bread ;  but  it  is  a  poor  substitute  for  that  from  wheat. 
(See  Barley',  page  207.)  From  what  has  been  said,  it  is 
clear  that  Potatoes  alone,  they  containing  a  very  small 
quantity  of  gluten,  cannot  make  good  bread ;  yet  when 
they  are  mixed  in  certain  proportions  with  wheat  flour,  they 
make  a  very  pleasant  and  wholesome,  but  we  much  doubt 
whether  a  profitable  bread.  It  is,  however,  said  that  a 
considerable  quantity  of  potatoes  is  employed  in  making 
bread  by  the  bakers  of  the  metropolis ;  this  they  would  not 
do,  unless  the  mixture  wrere  profitable  to  them.  (See  for¬ 
wards,  and  also  page  212). 

Sugar,  as  we  have  seen,  is  by  far  the  smallest  of  the 
constituents  of  wheat  flour ;  its  most  distinguishing  pro¬ 
perty  is  that,  being  dissolved  in  water,  it  ferments  of  itself, 
without  the  addition  of  any  yeast ;  whereas  the  sugar  of 
commerce  does  not  undergo  that  process  unless  yeast  be 

sides  its  quality  of  rendering  bread  more  spongy  when  it  is  fer¬ 
mented  is,  that  when  in  the  state  of  povvuer,  as  it  exists  in  wheat 
flour,  it  combines  readily  with  water,  and  thus  acquires  tenacity 
and  adhesiveness,  yet  it  is  insoluble  in  that  fluid.  See  Uhf.’s 
Dictionary,  article  Gluten.  See  also  Fourcroy’s  Chemistry, 
English  Edit,  of  1790,  Yol.  III.,  on  the  Glutinous  part  of  icheut. 
“  In  many  of  its  properties  it  bears  a  great  resemblance  to  the 
fibrous  part  of  blood.”  Page  7 1. 


BREAD. 


367 


mixed  with  its  aqueous  solution.  Hence  the  reason  why 
the  dough  of  wheat  flour  ferments  and  is  converted  into 
leaven ;  but  if  the  sugar  be  washed  out  of  the  flour  with 
water,  the  fermentation,  which  is  vinous ,  does  not  take 
place.  It  is  at  first  only  confined  to  the  saccharine  matter  ; 
and  here,  if  possible,  the  process  ought  to  be  stopped ;  but 
as  this  is  not  usually  possible,  the  acetous  fermentation 
begins,  and  more  or  less  vinegar  is  formed.  Hence  the 
utility  of  adding  yeast  to  flour  in  the  making  of  bread,  in 
order  to  complete,  as  soon  as  possible,  the  fermentation  ; 
and  to  prevent,  as  much  as  may  be,  the  dough  from  be¬ 
coming  sour. 

As  UNLEAVENED  Bread  is  flour  made  into  dough 
with  water,  and  baked  or  otherwise  highly  dried,  it  has 
nearly,  if  not  exactly,  the  same  properties  as  unfermented 
wheat  flour;  and,  therefore,  when  taken  into  the  stomach, 
it  goes,  of  course,  into  the  fermentation  to  which  wheat 
flour  is  liable  ;  and,  consequently,  unless  for  stomachs  of 
extraordinary  powers  of  digestion,  it  must  be  more  or  less 
unwholesome. 

The  employment  of  yeast  in  the  making  of  bread  is  a 
great  improvement  upon  the  practice  of  the  ancients,  who 
employed  leaven  for  the  purpose.  At  the  present  time  as 
no  effectual  method  has  been  discovered  of  preserving 
yeast  for  a  long  time  in  such  a  state  as  to  render  it  applica¬ 
ble  for  the  making  of  bread,  ships  which  goon  long  voyages, 
East-Indiamen  for  instance,  usually  employ  the  leaven  of 
the  previous  day  for  the  production  of  hot  rolls,  &c.  on  the 
next,  throughout  the  voyage.  See  forwards,  article  Yeast. 

BAKING  WITH  LEAVEN.  Some  flour  must  be 
made  into  dough  with  water ;  this  being  set  in  a  warm 
place,  is  left  for  about  thirty-six  hours,  during  which  period 
it  swells  considerably  and  becomes  of  a  thinner  consistence. 
By  this  fermentation  it  acquires  a  peculiar  smell  and  a  dis¬ 
agreeable  sour  taste,  and  is  called  Leaven  ;  this  being- 
mixed  with  a  quantity  of  fresh  dough  occasions  the  whole 
to  underg-o  a  speedy  fermentation  and  to  swell  precisely  in 
the  same  manner  as  dough  mixed  with  yeast.  Bread  skil¬ 
fully  made  in  this  manner  with  a  proper  quantity  of  salt,'* 

•'  **  A  pound  of  salt  is  generally  added  to  each  bushel  of  flour. 


368 


BREAD. — POTASH. —  CAKES. 


is  said  to  be  not  inferior  to  bread  made  with  yeast ;  but  un¬ 
skilfully  managed,  it  is  sour,  and  contains  a  quantity  of 
acetic  acid.  Carbonate  of  Potash,  i.  e.  the  common 
white  potash  or  pearl-ash  of  the  shops,  offers,  it  is  true, 
a  ready  and  not  unwholesome  way  of  neutralizing  the  acid ; 
and  hence  we  may  perceive  the  utility  of  this  article  if  used 
in  the  making  of  bread  when  much  acid  is  present,  whether 
it  be  made  with  leaven  or  with  yeast.  The  bakers  of  the  me¬ 
tropolis  know,  we  believe,  well  this,  and  do  not  fail  to  use  it 
occasionally,  if  not  very  often.*  But  bread  is  not  com¬ 
monly  made  with  leaven  in  this  country ;  nor  do  we  advise 
the  cook  to  adopt  so  precarious  a  method  of  obtaining  good 
bread,  when  by  a  much  better  process  the  same  object  can 
he  accomplished. 

It  is,  however,  on  the  neutralizing  quality  of  potash, 
when  exposed  to  an  acid  of  more  powerful  affinity  than 
carbonic  acid,  that,  in  the  United  States  of  America,  Pot¬ 
ash  cakes  are  prepared.  They  consist  of  wheat  flour,  salt, 
sour  milk,  and  a  certain  proportion  of  potash.  The  acid  in 
the  milk  combines  with  the  potash,  and  thus  sets  the  car¬ 
bonic  acid  free,  and  this  produces  the  'porousness  of  the 
cake,  as  in  our  ordinary  fermentation  of  bread.  We  are, 
nevertheless,  not  prepared  to  recommend  this  cake  as  equal 
to  one  made  with  flour  properly  fermented  with  yeast.  Nor 
are  we  disposed  to  recommend,  instead  of  carbonate  of  pot- 

Hence  it  may  be  presumed  that  every  adult  consumes  two  ounces 
of  salt  per  week,  or  six  pounds  and  a  half  per  annum,  in  bread 
only.” — Paris  in  Practical  Cyclopcedia  of  Medicine,  art.  Dietetics. 

*  Pearl-ash  is  most  easily  purified  ;  it  is  only  necessary  to  dis¬ 
solve  it  in  water  and  let  the  solution  remain  for  a  few  hours  ;  the 
impurities  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  and  the  clear  liquid 
can  then  be  poured  off.  If  it  be  desired  to  obtain  the  salt  in  a 
solid  form,  the  liquid  must  be  boiled  down  to  dryness  in  an  iron 
vessel,  constantly  stirring  it  towards  the  end  of  the  process.  In 
this  state  it  is  called  by  the  chemists  sub-carbonate  of  potash,  by 
mostother  persons,  Salt  of  Tartar,  (for  the  same  kind  ofsaltmay 
be  obtained  from  tartar  after  the  tartaric  acid  is  burnt  out  of  it), 
which,  as  found  in  the  shops,  is  in  small  white  grains  of  an  equal 
size,  produced  by  sifting  the  salt,  when  fresh  made  and  dry, 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  and  by  pounding  the  larger  lumps  so 
as  to  render  them  capable  of  passing  through  the  sieve.  We  have 
been  somewhat  particular  concerning  carbonate  of  potash,  it  being 
a  very  useful  article  for  making  eifervescent  mixtures.  See 
Lemonade,  forwards. 


BREAD. 


369 

ash,  Carbonate  of  Ammonia,  ( Smelling  Salts,)  an 
article  now  to  be  obtained  cheap,  in  consequence  of  its 
existence  in  coal,  whence  it  is  obtained  at  the  Coal  Gas 
Works.  It  is,  we  believe,  sometimes  used  by  the  bakers  of 
the  metropolis.  It  is  not  unwholesome  ;  but  it  cannot  be  of 
so  much  value  in  the  making  of  good  bread  as  yeast. 
Carbonic  Acid,  it  must  not  be  forgotten,  is,  when  un¬ 
combined,  and  under  ordinary  circumstances,  in  the  state 
of  Gas.  See  forwards,  under  Brewing. 

We  do  not  deem  it  necessary  in  a  work  of  this  kind  to 
detail  the  method  of  making  bread  in  the  large  way ;  those 
who  desire  such  information  may  consult  the  Family 
Cyclopaedia  article  Bread  ;  we  give,  however,  from 
that  work  the  following  method  of  making — 

GOOD  BREAD  FOR  A  FAMILY.  Take  of  good 
and  sifted  wheat  flour  six  pounds  ;  of  water  moderately 
warm,  but  not  hot,  two  pints  and  a  half ;  of  liquid  yeast 
eight  spoonsful ;  of  salt  two  ounces.  Put  about  a  pint  of 
the  warm  water  to  the  yeast,  and  mix  it  well  by  beating 
them  together  with  a  whisk.  Let  the  salt  be  put  to  the 
remaining  water  and  stirred  till  it  is  completely  dissolved. 
Then  put  both  quantities  of  the  fluid  gradually  to  the  flour, 
and  knead  the  mass  well  till  the  whole  is  properly  mixed. 
The  dough,  thus  made,  must  stand  four  or  five  hours,  that 

I  is,  till  the  exact  moment  of  its  having  fully  risen,  and 
before  it  is  sensibly  perceived  t.o  fall.  It  is  then  to  be  formed 
into  loaves,  and  immediately  placed  in  the  oven.  To  bake 
it  properly,  the  first  care  is  to  see  that  the  oven  be  suffi¬ 
ciently  heated,  (see  above  page  365)  yet  not  to  such  a  degree 
as  to  burn  the  crust.  If  a  green  vegetable  turns  black, 
when  put  in,  the  oven  will  scorch  the  bread,  in  which  case 
it  must  stand  open  till  the  heat  is  somewhat  abated,  The 
mouth  of  the  oven  must  be  well  closed,  till  the  bread  has 
risen  to  its  full  height,  which  will  not  take  place  in  less  than 
two  or  three  hours.  After  this,  but  not  before,  the  oven 
may  be  opened  for  the  purpose  of  viewing  the  bread.  If 
the  mouth  of  the  oven  be  not  kept  closely  stopped  till  the 
bread  has  fully  risen,  it  will  flatten  and  become  heavy. 
When  properly  managed,  the  above-mentioned  ingredients 
will  have  lost  about  one  pound  two  ounces  in  weight ;  so 

R  3 


370 


BREAD. 


that  a  baked  loaf  of  this  kind  should  weigh  seven  pounds 
twelve  ounces. 

ANOTHER  METHOD.  Let  a  peck  of  good  flour  be 
sifted  into  a  trough  or  tub  ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of 
it,  into  which  pour  a  pint  each  of  yeast  and  lukewarm 
water  mixed  together  ;  let  this  liquor  be  mixed  with  a  por¬ 
tion  of  the  flour  till  it  becomes  a  thin  paste  ;  set  the  tub  in 
a  warm  place  for  an  hour,  that  the  sponge,  as  it  is  called, 
may  ferment ;  then  mix  the  whole  with  two  quarts  more  of 
lukewarm  water  and  a  little  salt,  (for  the  proportion  see 
above,)  knead  it  of  a  proper  consistence,  and  let  it  remain 
another  hour,  and  then  knead  it  again  ;  after  its  remaining 
one  hour  more  knead  it  again,  form  it  into  loaves  of  the 
size  you  may  choose,  and  bake  it. 

Or,  you  may  mix  the  sponge  in  a  separate  vessel,  adding 
also  the  salt  to  it,  allowing  great  room  for  its  rising  ;  it 
should  remain  as  sponge  for  five  or  six  hours,  when  the 
rest  of  the  flour  and  water  must  be  mixed  with  it ;  the 
whole  being  kneaded  well  together  must  remain  for  two 
hours  more  tmd  then  be  kneaded  again  :  form  it  into 
loaves  and  put  them  into  the  oven. 

Note,  that  we  have  set  down  the  whole  quantity  of  water 
to  be  employed  at  five  pints  ;  but  some  flour  may  require 
much  more  water  than  this  to  be  made  into  dough  of  a  pro¬ 
per  consistence.  American  flour,  in  particular,  is  generally 
drier  than  English  flour,  and  therefore  requires  more 
water  ;  it  is  for  this  reason  esteemed,  and  in  fact  is,  more 
economical  as  to  the  quantity  of  bread  produced.* 


*  Mrs.  Rundell  says  that  fourteen  pounds  of  American  ilour 
will  make  twenty-one  pounds  and  a  half  of  bread;  whereas  the 
same  quantity  of  the  best  English  flour  produces  only  eighteen 
pounds  and  a  half.  Rut  there  is,  doubtless,  much  variation  i  i 
the  quality  and  dryness  of  the  flour  of  both  countries. 

We  have  not  deemed  it  necessary  in  this  article  to  say  much 
about  the  quality  of  flour,  because  we  conclude  that  it  will  be  ob¬ 
tained  of  those  who  are  reputed  honest  tradesmen.  That  it  is 
sometimes  mixed  with  bean  flour  and  other  inferior  flours  there  is 
little  doubt;  but,  as  we  have  elsewhere  stated,  the  pioper  fer¬ 
mentation  and  baking  of  the  bread  is  of  the  most  consequence. 
The  demand  for  white  bread  by  those  who  know  little  about  the 
really  good  qualities  of  bread  has  tempted  the  baker  to  employ 


FRENCH  BREAD. 


371 

And  note  'particularly ,  that  all  bread,  cakes,  and  bis¬ 
cuits,  previously  to  being  put  into  the  oven,  should  have  the 
tops  perforated  with  wires  prepared  for  the  purpose,  in  order 
that  the  gas  which  is  evolved  during  the  baking,  may  in 
some  degree  escape :  this  is  designed  to  prevent  an  un¬ 
sightly,  and  in  fact  improper  puffing  up  of  the  bread,  &c. 

FRENCH  BREAD.  A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  fresh 
yeast,  as  free  from  bitterness  as  possible,  diluted  with  one 
pint  and  a  half  or  two  pints  of  warm  water,  must  be  well 
mixed  with  six  pounds  of  good  wheat  flour  ;  cover  over  the 
mixture  with  flannel ;  and  when  the  dough  has  risen  suf¬ 
ficiently,  three  pints  of  skimmed  milk  and  four  ounces  of 
salt  must  be  worked  up  with  it  till  the  whole  becomes  ropy , 
when  it  must  be  again  covered  and  kept  for  some  time  warm. 
The  dough  must  now  be  made  into  rolls,  or  put  into  tin 
moulds  of  any  desired  size  and  baked  in  a  quick  oven,  ac¬ 
cording  to  the  weight  of  the  loaves — from  half  an  hour  to 
an  hour  and  a  half.  When  the  bread  is  drawn  it  is  usual 
to  rasp  off  the  darker  part  of  the  crust. 

Note  that,  in  making  French  Bread ,  the  dough  should 
be  handled  as  little  as  possible,  so  that  the  gaseous  matter 
might  not  be  pressed  out  before  it  is  baked ;  nor  should  it 
be  quite  so  stiff  as  dough  for  common  bread.  And  note, 
also,  that  here  the  chief  object  appears  to  be  to  add  the 
albumen  of  milk,  which  is  similar  in  its  properties  to 
gluten,  in  order  that  the  bread  may  be  made  more  light, 
porous,  and  nutricious.  Some  will  add  to  the  above  in¬ 
gredients  butter,  eggs,  and  sugar,  the  utility  of  which  we 
j  cannot  perceive. 

Or,  than  the  above,  a  better  way  will  be  to  mix  the 
yeast  diluted  wfith  warm  water,  and  the  skimmed  milk 
with  the  flour  at  once  into  a  batter ;  when  it  has  sufficiently 
risen,  add  the  salt  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  which 
being  mixed  with  the  dough  intimately  must  be  sub¬ 
sequently  treated  as  above  directed. 

some  ingredient  or  ingredients  to  produce  it.  We  may  be  sure 
that,  under  ordinary  circumstances,  the  whiter  and  finer  grained 
the  bread  is,  the  greater  probability  there  is  that  it  has  alum  or 
some  other  blanching  material  in  it. 


372 


METROPOLITAN  BREAD. 


POTATOE  BREAD.  Boil  good  mealy  potatoes*  as 
for  eating;  peel  and  mash  them  fine  without  any  water ; 
two  parts  of  flour  must  be  added  to  one  of  potatoes,  and 
also  a  proper  quantity  of  salt,  and  a  little  more  yeast  than 
is  used  for  common  bread.  Let  the  whole  be  kneaded  into 
dough,  with  a  little  warm  water  if  necessary  ;  and  after 
remaining  a  proper  time  to  rise  and  ferment,  make  it  into 
loaves  and  bake  it  as  other  bread. 

For  Rolls,  Bread  Cakes,  and  Tops  and  Bottoms, 
seepages  292  and  300;  for  Biscuits  of  various  kinds 
see  pages  299  and  300. 

METROPOLITAN  BREAD.  A  patent  was  granted 
in  December  1830,  to  Mr.  Idix,  for  a  method  of  obtaining 
spirit  or  alcohol  from  fermented  dough  during  the  baking  of 
it  into  bread.  The  oven  for  this  purpose  is  made  of  iron, 
the  bottom  being  covered  with  fire  bricks,  on  which,  of 
course,  the  bread  is  placed,  usually  in  tin  moulds.  The 
door  of  the  oven  is  air-tight.  The  fire  is  made  in  a  furnace 
beneath  the  oven  ;  and  the  heat  is  thus  supplied  not  only  to 
the  bottom  of  the  oven  where  means  are  taken  to  equalize 
it,  but  also  around  and  over  it  by  flues.  It  is  stated  in  the 
specification  of  this  patent,  that  the  proper  heat  of  the  oven, 
when  in  operation,  is  from  280°  to  310°  of  Fahrenheit’s 
thermometer.  At  the  top  of  the  oven  is  a  pipe  which  leads 


*  Mealy  potatoes  are  not  only  necessary  for  the  making  good 
potatoe  bread  ,  but  it  will  be  generally  found  that  all  potatoes 
which  are  not  mealy  are  more  or  less  unwholesome.  The  new 
potatoes  usually  met  with  in  London  are  round ,  in  general  un¬ 
wholesome  and  bad  boilers  ;  being  almost  always  watery  and 
delicient  in  mealiness.  It  is  singular  that  the  horticulturists  around 
London  have  not  yet  obtained  the  art  of  obviating  this  defect.  It 
is  true  a  few  early  kidneys  (see  page  212)  can  be  now  there 
obtained,  but  at  a  great  price.  It  is  remarkable,  also,  that  few 
persons  in  London  have  the  opportunity  of  enjoying  the  luxury  of 
a  good  new  potatoe,  while  in  many  of  the  provinces  they  are 
readily  obtained  :  there  is  something,  we  suspect,  in  the  soil 
around  the  metropolis  that  is  unfavourable  to  their  production. 
We  admire  most  of  our  metropolitan  vegetables,  such  as 
cabbages,  cauliflowers,  &c.  as  well  as  fruit;  but  we  are  obliged, 
most  reluctantly,  to  make  these  observations  concerning  new 
potatoes.  We  hope  to  find  that  the  defect  has  been  remedied. 


BREAD. — KNEADING. 


373 


to  a  refrigeratory  worm,  by  which  the  alcoholic  vapour  and 
the  steam  arising  from  the  bread  during  the  baking  are  con¬ 
densed.  The  spirit  thus  obtained  must  be  afterwards  puri¬ 
fied  by  the  rectifier.  The  bread  thus  baked  is  now  well 
known  in  the  metropolis,  and  is  called  Metropolitan 
Bread;  and  the  making  of  which  is  carried  on  by  a 
Company.  (See  an  account  of  the  patent  in  the  Journal 
of  Arts  for  August,  1833.) 

Note,  that  we  have  in  page  365,  concerning  the  heat 
necessary  to  be  employed  in  an  oven  for  baking  bread 
referred  to  this  article ;  and  here  we  may  observe  that,  if 
what  is  stated  in  the  specification  of  the  patent  be  true, 
and  we  have  no  reason  to  doubt  it,  it  is  evident  that  the 
degree  of  450°  is  by  far  too  much.  It  must  be  remem¬ 
bered,  however,  that  when  an  oven  is  heated  to  this  last 
degree,  the  fire  is  wholly  withdrawn ;  and,  consequently, 
that,  from  the  moment  of  its  withdrawal,  the  heat  gradually 
declines ;  but  in  the  baking  of  metropolitan  bread,  the  heat 
is,  we  presume,  constantly  kept  at  the  same  degree,  or 
nearly  so  ;  and,  consequently,  insures  not  only  a  more 
complete  baking  of  the  bread  than  in  ordinary  ovens,  but 
the  most  effectual  disengagement  of  the  alcohol,  &c.  We 
see  every  thing  to  commend  in  this  process,  and  recom¬ 
mend  this  plan  of  the  equalization  of  the  heat  during 
the  whole  time  that  the  bread  is  in  the  oven,  to  the  atten¬ 
tion  of  bakers  generally.  And  here  we  may  add  a  word 
or  two  about 

KNEADING.  From  what  has  been  observed  concern¬ 
ing  the  metropolitan  as  well  as  French  bread ,  we  are 
decidedly  of  opinion  that  the  ordinary  bread  everywhere 
to  be  met  with  in  this  country  is  too  much  kneaded,  and, 
in  consequence,  is  less  raised  than  good  and  wholesome 
bread  ought  to  be.  It  is  evident  that,  if  bread  be  kneaded 
just  before  it  is  put  into  the  oven,  as  ordinary  bread  inva¬ 
riably  is  by  rolling  as  well  as  otherwise,  some  of  the  gas 
to  which  its  porousness  is  owing  must  escape ;  while,  on 
the  contrary,  the  French  and,  we  conclude,  the  metropoli¬ 
tan  bread,  being  baked  in  tins,  does  not  undergo  the  last 
process  of  kneading  and  rolling  which  common  bread  does  ; 
and  hence  the  superior  wholesomeness  of  these  breads, 


374 


YEAST. 


when  well  baked,  to  the  ordinary  bread  of  the  shops.  It 
is  not  meant  by  these  observations  that  the  dough  is  not  to 
be  kneaded  at  all ;  far  from  it ;  when  the  wrater,  &c.  ne¬ 
cessary  for  forming-  the  flour  into  dough  are  added,  the 
mass  should  be  then  well  kneaded  in  order  to  their  complete 
mixture ;  but  afterwards,  when  the  fermentation  has 
begun,  all  further  kneading  should,  as  much  as  possible, 
be  avoided :  where  spirit  is  to  be  obtained  from  the  bread 
this  is  of  the  utmost  importance. 

YEAST  or  BARM  consists  of  a  variety  of  ingredients; 
but  the  chief  is  gluten,  to  which  it  is  believed  to  owe  its 
fermenting  property  when  mixed  with  bread,  with  malt,  or 
other  liquors  which  contain  a  portion,  more  or  less  large, 
of  sugar.  The  best  yeast  is  obtained  from  the  fermentation 
of  malt  liquor,  and  is  that  which  bakers  in  general  employ 
in  the  fermentation  of  their  bread.* 

Various  have  been  the  expedients  resorted  to  for  the 
preservation  as  well  as  generation  of  yeast.  We  are  not 
aware  that  any  can  be  recommended  which  have  been 
at  once  effectual  and  economical.  Good  fresh  yeast  may 
be  kept  for  several  months  by  being  placed  in  a  stout  can¬ 
vas  bag,  and  gently  squeezed  till  the  remaining  matter  is 
of  the  consistence  of  stiff  clay.  In  this  state  it  should  be 
pressed  into  a  stone  jar,  or  a  tight  cask,  secured  completely 
from  the  air,  and  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  subject  to  no 
alteration  of  temperature. 

It  may  otherwise,  after  being  pressed,  be  dried  in  a 
gentle  heat  before  the  fire,  or  in  an  oven  moderately 
heated.  When  dry  it  must  be  kept  in  jars  or  bottles  closely 
stopped.  When  it  is  wanted  to  be  used,  it  should  be 
dissolved  in  fresh  brisk  ale,  made  warm. 

A  substitute  for  yeast  may  be  made  by  boiling  four 
ounces  of  wheat  flour  in  two  quarts  of  water  for  half  an 
hour,  to  which  are  added  three  ounces  of  raw  sugar. 
When  the  mixture  is  nearly  cold,  mix  with  it  two  ounces 
of  yeast  in  a  vessel  sufficiently  large  to  permit  it  to  expand 

*  According  to  Dr.  Paris  we  are  indebted  to  the  ancient  Gauls 
for  the  employment  of  yeast  in  the  making  of  bread.  It  was  in¬ 
troduced  at  Paris  towards  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century, 
when  the  faculty  declared  against  the  practice. 


is  K  hVi  IN G. 


0/0 


by  fermentation;  after  which  it  must  be  well  shaken 
placed  near  the  fire  for  a  day,  and  then  the  thin  liquor 
must  be  poured  off  the  surface;  the  remainder  must  be 
shaken,  strained,  placed  in  ajar  well  stopped,  and  kept  in 
a  cool  place  till  wanted.  * 

Yeast  is  useful  to  make  poultices  with  flour,  &c  to  be 
applied  to  foul  and  gangrenous  ulcers.  The  London  Phar. 
orders  a  poultice  to  be  thus  made  with  it Take  one  pound 
o  flour,  yeast  of  beer  half  a  pint ;  mix  them,  and  expose 
a.S‘entle  heat  until  ^  begins  to  swell, 
u-  a  i  '  I^G  is  decidedly  a  chemical  process,  in  which 
chiefly  the  sugar  of  the  malt  prepared  from  barley  and  some 
other  gram  is  extracted,  and,  after  the  addition  of  hops 
or  other  bitters,  is  converted  by  proper  fermenta  tion  into 
either  strong  beer,  ale,  porter,  or  small  beer. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS.  We  have  alluded  in 
page  20o  to  the  chief  use  of  barley  when  converted  into 
malt,  to  which  the  reader  will  be  good  enough  to  refer ; 
as  well  as  to  what  is  said  under  Vinegars  in  page  332' 
and  also  to  what  is  said  under  our  article  Baking  in 
regard  to  the  fermentation  of  bread,  and  again  forwards 
under  C  yder,  Wines,  and  Distillation.  Although  the 
conversion  of  barley  into  malt  is  not  absolutely  necessary 
lor  the  making  of  beer,  yet  it  has  been  found  that  the 
sugar  may  be  more  easily  extracted  from  malt  than  from 
the  raw  grain  ;  and  therefore  it  is  that  malt  is  generallv 
employed  for  the  purpose ;  in  addition  to  which  the  expe¬ 
riments  of  Mr.  Brands  seem  to  prove  that,  in  the  process 
of  malting,  some  of  the  starch  of  the  barley  is  converted 
f  lnt°  sugar ;  and,  therefore,  that  a  given  quantity  of  malt 
will  produce  more  spirit  (on  which  chiefly  the  goodness  of 
ma‘t  liquors  depend)  than  the  same  quantity  oEbariey  un- 
1  malted  It  is  said,  however,  that  there  is  a  practice  among- 
some  of  the  great  brewers  of  the  metropolis,  of  adding  a 
certain  portion  of  sulphuric  acid  to  raw  barley,  and  that 
this  causes  the  barley  to  yield  more  sugar  than  any  process 
ot  malting.  But  such  practice  the  Family  Cook  will  not 
*  be  very  likely,  and  under  our  present  excise  laws  in  regard 
to  the  duty  on  malt,  would  not,  w^e  believe,  be  permitted  to 
idopt ;  we  must  therefore  treat  here  only  of  the  best 


376  BREWING. — THE  HOP. 

methods  of  brewing  from  malt.  We  may,  nevertheless, 
in  passing,  observe  that  almost  every  grain  besides  barley 
may  be  employed  to  produce  a  spirit ,  and  consequently  a 
beer ;  in  America  it  is  made  from  Indian  coin  ;  in  Afiica, 
it  is  said  the  negroes  make  beer  from  the  seeds  of  a  species 
of  grass,  the  holcus  spicatus,  and  wheat ,  rye ,  and  oats 
are  occasionally  employed  for  the  same  purpose,  jet,  as 
barley  contains  a  very  large  quantity  of  sugar  as  compared 
with  other  grains,  it  is  in  this  country  usually  preferred. 
(See  page  208.)  We  might  here  describe  the  process  of 
making  malt ,  but  as  it  is  under  the  regulation  of  the  excise 
we  omit  it ;  those  who  desire  to  understand  it  will  find  it 
described  in  our  Family  Cyclopedia,  article  Malt.. 

It  is  now  well  known,  at  least  to  those  who  have  studied 
the  subject  with  proper  attention,  that  Beer,  the  generic 
term  for  all  malt  liquors,  is  a  vinous  or  spirituous  liquor 
made  principally  from  the  sugar  obtained  by  infusion 
(not  boiling  )  from  most  kinds  of  farinaceous  grain ;  but 
any  vegetable  which  contains  sugar,  and  which  is  not 
in  other  respects  injurious,  or  from  which  sugar  can  by  any 
process  be  developed,  can  be  used  for  the  production  of 
such  liquor.  The  flavour  of  all  depending  in  every  instance 
upon  the  aroma  (see  page  202,)  the  extractive  matter  of 
the  vegetable,  and  a  portion  of  essential  oil ,  (see  page  201,) 
either  "of  the  vegetable  itself,  or  in  the  matters  added  to  the 
liquor  during  the  process  of  malting  it,  or  afterwards ;  or,  if 
malt  be  used,  on  the  method  in  which  it  is  dried. 

The  hop  is  one  of  the  additions  to  which  we  have 
alluded  ;  and  although  a  few  centuries  ago  it  was  considered 
poisonous,  it  is  now  universally  demanded  as  a  necessary 
article  to  make  good  malt  liquor.  It  is  said  that  the  addi¬ 
tion  of  the  hop  to  such  liquor  keeps  it  good  much  longer 
than  it  would  keep  without  it,  under  exactly  the  same  cir- 
cmiiglftxices.  We  have  been,  and  still  aie,  somewhat 
sceptical  as  to  the  useful  qualities  of  hops  in  malt  liquors ; 
but  Dr.  Paris,  to  whose  able  paper  on  Dietetics  we 
have  more  than  once  alluded,  says  that  “  independently 
of  the  flavour  and  tonic  virtues  which  they  communicate, 
they  precipitate  by  means  of  their  astringent  principle  the 
vegetable  mucilage,  and  thus  remove  from  the  beer  the 


BREWING. — WORT.  377 

active  principle  of  fermentation ;  without  hops,  therefore, 
we  must  either  drink  our  malt  liquors  new  and  ropy,  or  old 
and  sour.” 

And  here  it  is  quite  necessary  to  make  some  observations 
on  the  heat  of  the  water  employed  in  mashing  the  malt. 
As  starch  dissolves  in  boiling1  writer,  and  in  water  some 
degrees  below  the  boiling-point  (212°) ;  great  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  w-ater  is  not  poured  on  the  malt  so  hot  as  to 
dissolve  the  starch ;  for  if  much  of  that  ingredient  be  dis¬ 
solved  in  the  liquor  your  beer  will  be  more  or  less  ropy,  and 
be  rendered  otherwise  very  unfit  to  drink.  We  must  re¬ 
member  that  it  is  not  the  starch  which  is  wanted  but  the 
sugar  and  a  portion  of  the  nutritive  or  extractive  matter, 
both  of  which  will  dissolve  in  water  at  a  much  less  heat  than 
that  which  is  required  to  dissolve  starch.  The  heat  of  from 
160°  to  180°  degrees  is  sufficient  to  dissolve  and  wash  out 
both  these  ingredients  together  with  some  others  on  which  the 
flavour  depends.  Sugar  being  the  basis  of  alcohol  or  spirit 
of  wine,  a  portion  of  yeast  is  mixed  with  the  wort  when 
cooled  down  to  about  65°  or  70c  (a  heat  somewhat  below 
what  is  called  summer  heat  in  this  country)  in  order  to 
produce  the  vinous  fermentation,  during  which  the  sugar 
contained  in  the  wort  is  decomposed  and  spirit  of  wine  or 
alcohol  is  formed  inexact  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  sugar 
in  the  wort ;  in  other  words  according  to  the  strength  of  it ; 
and  during  which  a  large  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  gas  is 
disengaged  producing,  besides,  with  the  yeast  a  large 
quantity  of  froth.  See  Yeast,  page  374. 

The  Wort  obtained  from  an  infusion  of  malt  as  above 
stated  consists  chiefly  of  saccharine  matter,  starch,  muci¬ 
lage,  or  extractive  matter  and  a  little  gluten.  The  strength 
pf  wort  is  determined  by  its  weight;  that  which  is  heaviest 
contains  the  most  sugar,  and  will  consequently  make  the 
(strongest  liquor.  An  instrument  called  a  saccharometer 
has  been  invented,  by  -which  the  relative  value  of  different 
vorts  may  be  estimated :  the  wort  for  strong  beer  or  good 
de  ought  to  weigh  from  1,090  to  1,100  when  compared 
vith  a  wine  pint  of  distilled  water,  the  weight  of  which  is 
1000,  or,  in  other  words,  one  pound  avordupoise.*  The 

*  See  forwards  concerning  the  weight  of  Cyder. 


378 


BREWING. 


yeast  is  added  to  the  wort  to  accelerate  the  fermentation , 
by  which  process  the  alcohol  or  spirit  is  formed  ;  but  fermen¬ 
tation  is,  besides  this,  decidedly  a  purifying  process,  during 
which  is  thrown  off  considerably  more  yeast  than  that  which 
was  originally  mixed  with  it ;  this  is  derived  chiefly  from 
the  gluten  of  which  yeast  principally  consists ;  and  thus, 
with  some  other  feculencies,  either  mixed  with  the  yeast  or 
deposited  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  the  liquor  becomes 
clear  and  much  lighter  in  weight,  and  fitted  for  being- 
drunk. 

When  the  active  fermentation  is  over,  the  beer  is  usually 
put  into  casks  ;  but  there  is  a  slow'  fermentation  in  all  strong 
fermented  liquors  still  going  on  in  ordinary  temperatures  ; 
and,  therefore,  the  liquor  will  not  arrive  at  its  ultimate 
strength,  its  best  state,  till  all  or  nearly  all  the  sugar  in  it 
is  decomposed  ;  in  ale  moderately  strong,  from  two  to  three 
months  are  necessary ;  but  a  hogshead  of  strong  beer  will 
require  twelve  or  more  months  to  complete  its  fermentation 
and  to  arrive  at  its  best  state. 

The  gas  to  w'hich  w-e  have  alluded  above  is  one  in  which 
no  animal  can  breathe  for  a  moment,  nor  will  a  candle  burn 
in  it.  It  is,  therefore,  necessar)*-  to  take  care  that,  in  going 
into  a  cellar  or  other  place  in  which  the  active  fermentation 
of  malt  liquor  is  going  on,  the  room  is  well  ventilated, 
or  the  result  may  be  fatal.  It  is  also  necessary  in  cleansing- 
vats  or  casks  which  have  had  malt  liquor  in  them  that  they 
should  be  freely  ventilated  with  common  air. 

And  it  is  likewise  of  essential  importance  to  know  that 
carbonic  acid  gas  is  considerably  heavier  than  common  air, 
and  that  it  will  be  found  during  the  fermentation  of  malt 
liquors  to  be  constantly  flowing  over  the  sides  of  the  vat  or 
cask  down  to  the  ground.  A  candle  being  immersed  in  the 
gas  wall  be  extinguished,  and  the  smoke  of  the  candle  will 
besides  demonstrate  its  presence. 

The  best  time  for  brewing  good  malt  liquor  is  when  the 
weather  is  neither  very  hot  nor  very  cold ;  frosty  w-eather 
is  not  good ;  neither  is  excessively  hot  weather ;  in  cold 
w'eather  the  fermentation  will  be  wholly  prevented  or  very 
much  impeded;  in  very  hot  weather  it  may  be  so  rapid  as 
to  pass  over  the  vinous  into  the  acetous  fermentation,  and 
thus  the  liquor  will  be  spoiled.  October  is  a  proverbial 


BREWING. — HOPS. 


379 


month  for  brewing  ;  and  it  is  generally  a  very  good  one — 
from  the  equability  of  its  temperature  ;  next  to  October  the 
months  of  March  and  April  are  to  be  preferred. 

The  water  employed  in  brewing  is  also  of  some  conse¬ 
quence.  Rain  water,  if  to  be  obtained  clean  and  sweet,  is 
the  best;  next  to  this  river  water,  if  soft,  is  to  be  preferred  ; 
but  spring  or  hard  water  which  contains  generally  a  portion, 
more  or  less  of  calcareous  or  other  earthy  matters  notwith¬ 
standing  its  transparency,  should,  if  possible,  be  avoided. 

(Before  beginning  the  process  of  brewing  care  must  be 
j  especially  taken  that  the  boiler  in  which  the  water  is  to  be 
made  hot  and  in  which  the  wort  is  afterwards  to  be  boiled, 
that  the  mash-tun  or  vat,  that  all  the  tubs  and  coolers,  and 
that  the  casks  into  which  the  liquor  is  to  be  put,  are  all 
»'  clean,  sweet,  and  wholesome ;  and  that  tire  casks,  in  parti¬ 
cular,  be  perfectly  tight  and  sound. 

And  here  it  should  be  observed  that  although  a  copper 
boiler  is  usually  employed  in  brewing,  chiefly  because  it  is  a 
better  conductor  of  heat  than  iron ;  yet  as  copper,  when 
, 1  combined  with  any  acid,  becomes  a  poison  more  or  less 
active,  it  should  not  be  employed  in  fermenting  malt  liquor; 
as  soon,  therefore,  as  the  boiling  is  completed  and  the 
liquor  removed,  the  boiler  should  be  immediately  well 
I  washed  with  water  and  otherwise  completely  cleaned  and 
j  dried  :  for  even  common  water,  if  it  remain  for  some  time 
in  the  copper,  will  cause  it  to  become  rusty,  and  conse¬ 
quently  unwholesome.  To  let  any  water,  wort,  &c.  stand 
in  a  copper  to  cool,  or  to  remain  there  after  it  is  cooled,  is  a 
practice  which  must  invariably  be  avoided. 

We  have  mentioned  hops*  as  being  usually  employed  for 


*  Hops  arc*  the  dried  flower  buds,  by  some  called  strobiles,  of 
the  Huhiulus  lupulus,  a  well  known  indigenous,  perennial,  climbing 
plant,  growing  in  hedges  and  flowering  in  July.  The  cultivation 
j  of  the  hop  was  first  introduced  from  Flanders  in  the  year  1524; 
and  it  is  said  that  hops  were  first  used  in  English  beer  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  The  prejudice  against 
them  was  so  great  that  the  City  of  London,  one  hundred  years 
i  after  wards,  petitioned  Parliament  to  prevent  their  use;  at  the 
present  time,  1833,  severe  penalties  are  levied  on  brewers  who  use 
any  other  bitter  in  their  beer !  See  what  is  quoted  from  Dr.  Paris 
i above  concerning  hops  ;  to  which  we  may  add  that  as  a  medicine 
Shops  are  now  considered  narcotic,  tonic,  and  diuretic.  That  as 


380 


BREWING.  —  BITTERS. 


the  purpose  of  flavouring  and  preserving  malt  liquors ;  but 
other  bitters  are  also  occasionally  used ;  a  wood  called 
Quassia  has  been  for  some  years  known,  and  is,  we 
believe,  very  much  used  by  some  brewers  in  the  large  way 
instead  of  hops.  Quassia  *  is  not  an  unwholesome  addition  ; 
it  imparts  an  intensely  bitter  taste ;  but  there  is  a  peculiar 
aroma  which  accompanies  the  bitter  of  the  hop  in  wrhich 
quassia  is  decidedly  deficient.  Of  the  comparative  value 
of  the  two  we  cannot  determine,  not  being  sufficiently 
persuaded  of  their  conservative  powers.  Judging  from 
the  taste  of  different  brewers’  malt  liquors,  wTe  should  say 
that  quassia  is  used  by  some  brewers  very  extensively 
while  others  employ  it  sparingly,  if  at  all.  We  believe  that 
gentian  root  f  is  quite  as  good  as,  perhaps  a  better,  bitter 
than  quassia ;  and  it  is  probable  that  it  is  sometimes  em¬ 
ployed  to  impart  a  bitter  taste  to  beer  ;  but  we  do  not  happen 
to  be  cognizant  of  the  fact. 

Besides  the  bitters  employed  in  the  making  of  beer,  we 
may  here  mention  that  it  is  said,  at  the  present  time,  several 
other  ingredients  are  employed  by  brewers  in  the  large  way 
to  render  their  liquors  more  intoxicating  at  less  expense 
than  that  of  employing  malt  in  order  to  obtain  spirit  for  the 
purpose.  Among  these  opium,  the  inspissated  milky  juice  ob- 

the  male  and  female  grow  on  different  plants,  the  female  is  that 
only  which  is  cultivated  ;  that  Hop-tops  (see  page  231,)  are  occa¬ 
sionally  boiled  and  eaten  like  asparagus.  There  are,  nevertheless, 
several  varieties  of  the  cultivated  hop. 

*  Quassia  is  the  wood  and  root  of  the  Quassia  excelsa,  a  lofty 
tree  growing  in  the  West  Indies  and  many  parts  of  South  America. 
All  the  parts  of  the  tree,  as  well  as  the  wood  and  root,  are  in¬ 
tensely  bitter,  the  bark  is  said  to  be  the  most  so.  The  wood  is 
usually  cut  into  small  bits  or  shavings  before  it  is  used.  It  is  a 
very  useful  medical  bitter  ;  but  Dr.  T.  Thomson  states  that  “  beer 
made  with  it  certainly  does  not  keep,  but  soon  becomes  muddy, 
flat,  has  a  mawkish  taste,  and  runs  into  the  acetous  fermentation.” 
London  Dispensatory,  article  Quassia. 

f  Gentian  Root  is  obtained  from  the  Gentiana  Lutca  or  Yellow 
Gentian,  a  perennial  plant,  native  of  Austria,  the  Alps,  the  Pyre¬ 
nees,  and  of  North  America.  That  which  is  found  in  the  shops  in 
this  country  is  brought  from  Germany.  It  is  a  very  useful  medical 
bitter,  and  has  been  long  used  as  such.  It  yields  its  virtues  very 
readily  to  boi'ing  water.  It  is,  consequently,  a  very  wholesome 
root. 


NARCOTICS.  —  ALE. 


381 


tained  from  incisions  in  the  green  heads  of  the  single  white 
poppy,  may  be  mentioned ;  as  well  Cocculus  Indicus  or 
Indian  berry,  the  produce  of  the menispermum  cocculus, 
a  plant  native  of  the  East  Indies ;  these  berries  are  highly 
intoxicating  and  poisonous;  and  are,  it  is  to  be  feared,  now 
employed  in  large  quantities  in  the  making  of  London 
porter,  notwithstanding  there  is  a  severe  penalty  attached 
to  such  employment.  The  seeds  of  White  Darnel, 
Lolium  temulentum,  and  also  the  flowers  of  Gaule,  wild 
or  Dutch  myrtle  ( myrica  gale )  a  strongly  scented  shrub 
native  of  the  boggy  districts  of  this  country,  were  formerly 
employed  to  impart  an  intoxicating  property  to  malt 
liquors;*  but  we  believe  not  now,  unless  in  some  of  the 
remote  districts  of  Scotland.  As  the  uses  of  all  the 
narcotics  here  mentioned,  as  well  as  others  of  what  kind 
soever  they  may  be,  such  as  nux  vomica,  are  of  very 
questionable  value  or  utility  at  any  time  in  malt  liquor,  we 
cannot  advocate  their  employment,  and  advise  all  family 
brewers  to  confine  themselves  to  good  malt  and  good  hops. 
Opium  is  an  excellent  medicine,  but  bad  as  a  daily  drink ; 
and  nux  vomica  and  cocculus  Indicus  are  decided  poisons, 
never  being  employed  medicinally.  Some  other  ingredients 
are  mentioned  under  Porter  ;  but  we  do  not  recommend 
their  being  used. 

ALE.  To  make  a  barrel,  36  gallons,  of  good  ale,  take 
of  malt  three  bushels,  of  hops  two  pounds.  Having  mea¬ 
sured  the  quantity  of  water  which  the  cask  will  hold  by  a 
pail  or  bucket,  put  that  quantity  into  the  copper  or  other 
boiler,  and  make  it  boil ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  dip  off  half  of 
it  into  a  tub  or  vat,  raised  upon  a  bench  about  a  foot  and  a 
half  from  the  ground,  and  which  has  a  hole  in  its  side  near 
the  bottom,  into  which  is  put  a  spigot  and  fauset  sufficiently 
large,  and  over  the  end  of  which  in  the  vat  is  fixed  a 
bundle  of  small  clean  sticks,  or  other  convenient  apparatus, 
to  prevent  the  malt  from  running  out.  Let  the  hot  water 
remain  quiet  in  the  vat  till  it  has  cooled  down  to  about  the 
temperature  of  175°  or  180°  of  Fahrenheit’s  thermometer  ; 
or,  in  the  absence  of  this  instrument,  till  the  face  can  be 


*  See  Ray's  Cntalogus  Planiarum,  1G77,  articles  Elceagnus 
CorcLi  and  Lolium  Album — “  Ivray  Gailis  quoniam  inebriat.” 


382 


ALE. 


seen  pretty  distinctly  in  the  water ;  then  mix  the  malt  with 
the  water  gradually,  stirring  it  with  a  mashing  stick  or 
other  convenient  spatula.  Preserve  a  few7  handfuls  cf  the 
dry  malt  to  strew  over  the  surface  after  it  is  mixed,  in 
order  to  prevent,  as  much  as  possible,  the  escape  of  the 
heat  ;  the  vat  should  be  also  covered  with  cloths.,  more 
effectually  to  keep  the  mixture  hot,  which  must  remain  un- 
distuibed  for  three  hours.  The  wort  is  then  to  be  run  out 
by  the  spigot  and  fauset.  As  soon  as  it  has  done  so,  pour 
on  again  upon  the  malt  the  same  quantity  of  water,  cooled 
in  a  tub  to  the  same  degree  of  heat  as  before,  and  let  it 
remain  w  ith  the  malt  half  an  hour  or  somewhat  longer.  It 
will  not  be  advisable  nowT  to  agitate  the  water  with  the  malt 
as  doing-  so  will,  most  probably,  wash  out  some  of  the  ; 
starch,  which  you  do  not  w7ant.  Let  the  wort  run  off  a  j 
second  time. 

As  you  will  now  be  enabled  to  judge  how  much  more 
wort  wiil  be  necessary  to  fill  your  cask,  add  as  much  more 
water,  cooled  down  as  before,  as  will  be  sufficient  for  the 
purpose,  letting  the  last  portion  stand  a  short  time  in  the 
vat,  always  remembering  that  it  is  advisable  to  have  for  a 
cask  of  36  gallons  at  least  10  or  15  gallons  of  wort  more 
than  sufficient,  to  fill  your  cask,  to  allow7  for  w'aste  and  for 
evaporation  ;  and  keeping  in  mind  also  that  the  more  water 
is  used  the  more  effectually  will  the  sugar  be  washed  out  of 
the  malt,  and  the  stronger  will  the  liquor  become. 

When  the  worts  have  been  all  run  off,  mix  them  to°'e- 
ther,  and  put  them  into  the  copper,  making  it  boil  as  soon 
as  possible.  It  will  be  necessary  to  know  how  many  gallons 
the  copper  holds,  in  order  to  judge  of  the  evaporation  :  for  the 
overplus  of  water  must  be  reduced  to  the  number  of  gallons 
which  are  wanted,  allowing  still  a  few7  gallons  for  waste. 

When  the  wort  is  reduced  by  boiling  to  nearly  the  proper 
quantity,  and  not  before,  put  in  the  two  pounds  of  hops 
and  Jet  them  boil  in  the  wort  for  about  twenty  minutes ; 
and  it  is  most  advisable  during;  their  boiling-  that  the  boiler 
should  be  covered  over,  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  aroma 
of  the  hops.  The  boiling  being  completed,  let  the  wort  be 
strained  off  into  proper  coolers.  When  it  is  cooled  down  to 
65°  or  70°,  that  is,  rather  below  summer  heat,  mix  one 
quart  of  good  yeast  w7ith  a  few  gallons  of  the  wort  first, 


STRONG  BEER. ---SMALL  BEER. 


383 

:  and  afterwards  put  the  whole  together  into  a  vat  to  ferment 
o,  for  two  or  three  days  or  more ;  or  put  it  at  once  into  the 
Ik  cask  in  which  it  is  designed  to  be  kept,  and  let  it  ferment 
,,  there  ;  which  last  method  is  the  most  effectual  to  preserve 
I  all  the  strength  of  the  liquor. 

The  necessary  care  must  be  taken  to  watch  the  fermen- 
a  tation  in  the  cask,  and  fill  it  up  occasionally  with  the  su  - 
perfluous  liquor.  As  soon  as  the  cask  will  bear  a  bung  in 
t,  it  ought  to  be  stopped  down  slightly  at  first,  till  the 
owers  of  the  disengaged  gas  be  ascertained ;  or  otherwise 
he  cask  might  burst. 

Note,  as  we  have  said,  that  putting  the  ale  into  the 
ask  at  once  to  ferment  is  the  best  way  of  retaining  all  the 
,  strength  of  the  liquor,  and  it  is  the  method  which  we  have 
.  turselves  invariably  adopted  ;  but  many  persons  prefer  set¬ 
ting  the  liquor  to  ferment  in  a  vat  previously  to  putting  it 
nto  a  cask  ;  we  see  no  reason  for  this  course,  except  that 
there  will  be  fewer  faeces  in  the  liquor  ;  and  this  is  a  small 
compensation  for  the  loss  of  strength  which  the  liquor  must 
andergo  in  having  so  larg-e  a  surface  exposed  for  three  or 
nore  days  to  the  air  and  the  racking  of  it  afterwards  from 
he  vat  and  pouring  it  into  the  cask :  this  is  not  thought 
sufficiently  of  by  many  persons. 

j  This  ale,  if  it  be  brewed  when  the  weather  is  mild, 


stated  above,  will  be  lit  for  drinking  in  about  two  or 


as 
at 

nost  three  months.  But  a  larger  quantity  will  necessarily 
require  more  time  ;  a  smaller  somewhat  less. 

STRONG  BEER  is  made  with  double  the  quantity  of 
alt  and  hops  (directed  for  ale  above)  and  the  same  quan¬ 
tity  of  water,  and  the  same  processes  of  mashing,  boiling, 
and  fermenting  must  be  gone  through.  But  it  will  take 
it  least  double  the  time  of  the  ale  above  to  become  fit  for 
drinking ;  indeed  perhaps  it  ought  to  be  kept  nine  months 
to  be  at  its  best,  or  even  longer  than  that. 

Note,  that  some  persons  employ  for  a  hogshead,  (63 
gallons,)  of  ale,  Jive  bushels  of  malt;  and  for  the  same 
quantity  of  strong  beer  ten  bushels  of  malt. 

SMALL  BEER  may  be  made  from  the  malt  of  either 
of  the  preceding  processes,  immediately  after  the  last  wort 
has  been  drawn  oft’,  by  again  employing  water  at  the  heat 
before  mentioned,  and  letting  it  remain  for  half  an  hour  or 
more,  and  drawing  it  off  and  boiling  it  with  hops;  perhaps 


384 


PORTER. 


five  or  six  gallons  may  be  made  tolerably  good  from  the  ale- 
malt,  and  double  that  quantity  from  the  beer  malt.  Yeast 
must  be  employed  of  course  to  ferment  it.  This  is  the 
very  common  practice  with  the  frugal  housewife  in  the 
country.  But  small  or  table  beer  may  be  made  at  once, 
by  mashing  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  ale,  using  aless 
quantity  of  malt  and  hops.  It  is  however  the  practice  of 
many  persons  to  use  more  hops  in  proportion  as  the  malt  is 
diminished  in  quantity,  under  the  impression,  questionable 
as  we  still  believe  it  to  be,  that  hops  contribute  to  the  pre¬ 
servation  of  malt  liquor,  and  more  especially  that  which  is 
weak . 

We  need  not  describe  the  quantity  of  malt  necessary  to 
brew  good  table  beer,  because,  from  what  has  been  said, 
the  domestic  brewer  will  readily  judge  for  herself ;  but  one 
bushel  and  a  half  of  malt  and  one  pound  of  hops,  for  36 
gallons,  will  make  a  very  good  article  ;  many  use  a  much 
less  quantity  of  malt  than  this. 

Note  that  we  have  detailed  above  all  the  processes  wrhich 
are  necessary  for  brewing  good  malt  liquors  ;  as  however 
some  persons  may  be  desirous  of  learning  the  method  of 
brewing 

PORTER,  we  will  here  set  down  w7hat  knowledge  we 
have  acquired  upon  the  subject,  premising  that  we  do  not 
deem  the  very  best  porter  that  w7as  ever  made  equal  to  ale 
or  beer  obtained  from  good  malt  and  hops  alone  :  for,  even 
admitting,  which  we  do  not,  that  porter  is  sometimes  made 
from  highly  dried  malt  and  from  hops  only,  inasmuch  as 
such  malt  is  in  some  degree  altered,  and  in  fact  in  part 
decomposed,  it  never  can  form,  be  its  taste  what  it  may, 
an  article  equally  nutricious  and  stimulant  with  ale  or  beer  lil 
made  with  hops  and  malt  not  discoloured  by  heat.  But 
porter  is  not,  we  have  many  reasons  for  knowing,  made  in 
so  simple  a  manner :  it  is  composed  of  many  other  ingre¬ 
dients,  as  we  are  about  to  show. 

Those  who  desire  to  learn  the  method  of  brewing  porter 
in  the  large  way  may  consult  our  Family  Cyclopedia, 
article  Brewing ;  but  the  following  will  serve  for  a  cask  of 
eighteen  gallons  : — - 

Take  one  bushel  of  highly  dried  malt ;  twelve  ounces 
each  of  liquorice  root  and  Spanish  juice  ;  twelve  ounces 
of  essentia  bina,  made  by  boiling  raw  sugar  in  an  iron 


BREWING — PORTER. 


385 


vessel  till  it  become  of  a  thick,  syrupy  consistence,  and  per¬ 
fectly  black  and  bitter,  adding,  towards  the  end  of  the 
operation,  boiling  water,  to  make  it  of  the  consistence 
of  thick  syrup  when  cold  ;  the  same  quantity  of  colour , 
made  with  raw  sugar,  boiled  till  it  obtains  a  middle  state, 
between  bitter  and  sweet,  and  which  imparts  to  porter  the 
fine  mellow  colour  so  much  admired ;  twelve  ounces  of 
hops  ;  one  pound  and  a  half  of  treacle  ;  and  a  small  quan¬ 
tity  of  capsicum  and  ginger. 

Let  the  malt  be  mashed  as  directed  for  ale  above  ;  and  let 
also  the  liquorice  root  be  bruised  and  the  hops  be  first  boiled 
In  the  liquor ;  after  which,  while  hot ,  add  the  essentia 
ibina,  the  colour,  the  treacle,  the  Spanish  liquorice,  and  the 
apsicum  and  ginger :  after  remaining  for  twenty  or  more 
mutes,  not  boiling,  strain  it  off  into  coolers,  and  ferment 
n  a  similar  manner  to  ale. 

Note,  that  besides  those  ingredients  it  is  said  some  per¬ 
sons  put  in  also  the  following  to  make  porter :  cocculus 
ndicus,  grains  of  paradise,  carbonate  of  potash,  sulphate 
)f  iron  or  green  copperas,  (this  is  added  to  make  the  porter 
noth,)  lime,  linseed,  alum,  coriander  seeds,  cinnamon,  and 
uassia.  A  very  pretty  poisonous  sort  of  compound,  which 
e,  of  course,  cannot  recommend.  It  is  said  too  that  pieces 
f  lean  beef  are  used  by  the  London  brewers  of  porter ; 
jhese,  if  used,  wTe  presume,  are  employed  as  fining  instead 
if  isinglass.* 

FINING.  In  regard  to  the  fining  of  malt  liquor,  when 
nly  malt  and  hops  are  used,  we  have  never  known  any 
ing  necessary,  if  the  brewdng  and  subsequent  processes 
ave  been  properly  conducted;  but  some  persons  are,  never- 
eless,  not  contented  without  the  addition  of  isinglass. 

does,  however,  sometimes  happen  that  malt  liquor  is 
uddy;  and  as  porter  and  such  compound  liquors  often  do 
quire  some  addition  to  fine  them,  the  article  usually  em- 
oyed  is  isinglass  dissolved  in  stale  beer  till  the  whole  be- 
omes  of  a  thick  gluey  consistence ;  one  pint  of  such  solu- 
on  is  commonly  used  for  a  barrel  of  porter ;  but  two  or 
tore  are  sometimes  necessary. 


*  See  on  this  subject  Mowbray’s  Treatise  on  Domestic  Poultry, 
reiving,  §c.  6th  Edition  ;  page  305. 

■ 


386  PROPERTIES  OF  MALT  LIQUORS — SPIRIT. 

After  what  has  been  said  we  are  unwilling  to  enlarge 
further  on  the  brewing  of  malt  liquor,  with  the  addition  of 
other  ingredients ,  besides  malt  and  hops  ;  those  who  desire 
to  obtain  such  information  may  consult  our  Family  Cy¬ 
clopaedia.  We  may,  in  conclusion  on  this  important 
section  of  our  work,  observe  that  all  malt  liquors  are  stimu¬ 
lant  and  nutritive  in  proportion  to  the  alcohol  and  extractive 
matter  which  they  contain.  Small  beer  possesses  few  sti¬ 
mulant  properties,  the  chief  is  carbonic  acid ;  when  that 
has  escaped,  it  becomes  vapid  and  dead.  But  we  may  easily 
know  from  the  experiments  of  Mr.  Braude,  the  different 
value  of  malt  liquors  by  the  following  list :  — 

One  hundred  parts  of  Burton  ale  contain  of 
alcohol  parts  by  measure  •  •  •  • 


Edinburgh  ale  .  6,20 

Dorchester  ale  .  5,56 

Brown  stout  . .  -  6,80 

London  porter,  average .  4,20 

Small  beer .  1,28 


The  Nutricious  and  Wholesome  Properties  of 
Malt  Liquors  for  the  labourer  and  others  who  take  much 
exercise  in  the  open  air  cannot  be  disputed.  But  the  stu¬ 
dious,  the  sedentary,  and  the  valetudinarian,  unless  under 
very  peculiar  circumstances,  must  avoid  them.  They  have 
a  tendency  to  produce  in  many  persons,  the  inactive  citizen 
in  particular,  obesity;  —  a  tumid  and  unpleasant  distention 
of  the  stomach  and  bowels,  and,  indeed,  of  the  whole 
body  generally,  that  is,  too  often,  the  forerunner  of  many 
diseases,  of  which  dyspepsia  is  either  the  precursor  or  the 
concomitant. 

A  great  outcry  has  been  raised  against  the  use  of  ardent 
spirits,  (see  page  239  on  the  use  and  abuse  of  food,)  and, 
undoubtedly,  in  their  crude  and  concentrated  state,  they 
are  very  often,  not  to  say  almost  always,  injurious;  but 
when  taken  in  moderate  doses,  and  considerably  diluted 
with  water,  they  agree  with  the  dyspeptic  stomach  much 
better  than  malt  liquor,  or  even  strong  wine.  The  writer 
of  this  has,  for  years,  discarded  the  use  of  malt  liquors  of 
every  kind,  and  has  drunk,  in  their  stead,  diluted  English 


ENGLISH  GIN - SPRUCE-BEER. 


387 


gin,*  with  manifest  advantages  to  his  health  ;  and  he  has, 
besides,  recommended  and  enforced  the  same  practice  to 
others,  who  have  benefited  by  it.  But,  and  here  it  should 
be  emphatically  noted,  that,  in  such  case,  nothing-  except 
water  should  be  drunk  with  the  food,  either  at  dinner  or 
supper  in  particular.  To  drink  intoxicating  malt  liquor 
during  a  meal,  and  after  it  other  stimulants,  such  as  wine 
or  diluted  spirits,  is  a  practice  replete  with  mischief,  and 
should  be  utterly  avoided.  If,  however,  inveterate  habit 
demand  malt  liquor  with  the  food,  the  best  is  sprightly 
small  beer,  which  (see  above)  contains  a  little  more  than 
one  pint  in  a  hundred  of  spirit.  See  the  next  article,  and 
also  Cyder,  Wines,  and  Distillation,  forwards. 

It  is,  we  presume,  chiefly  from  the  pleasant  sprightliness 
of  the  carbonic  acid  gas  which  malt  liquors,  when  new,  so 
plentifully  supply,  that  succedaneums  for  those  liquors  have 
been  invented;  such  are  those  called  Soda  Water,  and 
Spruce,  and  Ginger  Beer.  Of  the  first  we  shall  treat  in 
a  subsequent  section — of  the  last  two  here. 

SPRUCE  BEER  is  made  by  mixing  thirteen  pounds 
of  treacle  with  twenty  gallons  of  warm  water,  eight  ounces 
of  essence  of  spruce,  and  a  quart  of  good  yeast ;  after  a 

*  We  know  one  remarkable  case  in  which  English  gin  has  been 
productive  of  the  best  effects.  It  is  that  of  a  lady  who  laboured 
under  ascites  or  dropsy  of  the  abdomen,  as  well  as  some  other 
serious  complaints.  She  was  attended  by  the  late  Dr.  Blegbo- 
rough,  a  physician  in  extensive  practice;  all  his  skill  could  not 
subdue  the  disease,  and  he  gave  his  patient  up,  believing  that 
death  would  soon  close  the  scene.  It  was,  however,  suggested 
to  him  by  the  present  writer  whether  English  gin,  which  had 
been  for  years,  when  diluted,  her  ordinary  beverage,  might  not  be 
again  had  recourse  to?  His  reply  was,  “  You  may  try  it but 
he  had  not  the  slightest  expectation  that  it  would  be  successful. 
It  was  tried  and  was  successful,  the  lady  being  wholly  relieved 
from  her  dropsy  by  the  use  of  the  gin ;  and  is  now  alive,  more 
than  sixty-seven  years  of  age,  and  quite  free  from  any  dropsical 
complaint:  this  occurred  in  1824.  The  lady  is  now  one  of  our 
council  of  cooks! 

This  is  not  the  place  to  discuss  the  modus  operandi  of  gin  upon 
the  human  constitution  ;  but  of  this  we  are  certain,  that  it  increases 
the  secretion  from  the  kidneys,  at  once  beneficially  and  pleasantly, 
chiefly,  we  presume,  by  the  delicate  dose  of  some  terebin thine 
matter  which  is  added  to  flavour  it ;  usually,  we  believe,  oil  of 
turpentine. 

s  2 


388  ESSENCE  OF  SPRUCE. —  GINGER  BEER. 

slight  fermentation  in  a  vat  or  cask  for  a  day  or  two,  it 
must  be  drawn  off  into  stone  bottles,  be  well  corked,  and 
laid  in  a  cool  cellar,  where  the  fermentation  will  be  com¬ 
pleted,  and  a  considerable  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  gas  be 
disengaged,  so  as  to  make  it  a  lively,  agreeable,  and  cool¬ 
ing  liquor,  having,  of  course,  the  peculiar  taste  of  the 
spruce  ;  but  it  is  generally  preferred  as  a  summer  beverage. 

Note,  that  spruce  beer  often  acts  upon  the  kidneys  in 
a  similar  manner  to  English  gin  ;  and  this  we  conclude  it 
does  from  the  essence  of  spruce  being  of  a  turpentine  nature. 

Essence  of  Spruce  is  an  extract  of  about  the  colour 
and  consistence  of  treacle ;  it  is  prepared  from  the  fresh 
branches  of  the  Spruce  fir,  abies  nigra,  a  native  of  North 
America,  w'hence  the  essence  is  usually  imported  into  this 
country.  There  are  other  species  of  the  pine,  called  Spruce 
fir;  but,  it  is  said,  the  essence  of  spruce  is  obtained  chiefly 
from  the  Black  spruce,  the  abies  nigra,  as  we  have  just  men¬ 
tioned.  See  our  “  Family  Cyclopaedia,”  article  Spruce. 

GINGER  BEER  may  be  made  precisely  in  the  same  way 
as  directed  for  spruce  beer  above,  with  the  omission  of  the 
spruce,  and  the  addition  of  grated  ginger  at  your  pleasure. 
If  you  desire  to  have  a  very  pungent  taste  of  the  ginger, 
you  must  add  a  pretty  large  quantity  of  it,  one,  even  two 
pounds  will  not,  perhaps,  be  too  much  for  twenty  gallons. 
It  must  be  fermented,  bottled,  and  treated  in  all  other 
respects  as  spruce  beer ;  but  when  the  ginger  beer  is 
bottled,  it  will  be  necessary  to  strain  it  through  a  cloth  or 
hair  sieve  ;  or  a  funnel  may  be  so  contrived  with  a  cloth  as 
to  constitute  a  strainer.  See  what  is  said  in  page  402, 
concerning  ginger. 

Note,  that  although  we  have  set  down  these  directions 
for  twenty  gallons,  one  fourth  of  the  quantity  may  be 
taken  or  even  less,  diminishing  proportionately  all  the  in¬ 
gredients  ;  and  note,  besides,  that  if  you  desire  a  more 
elegant  spruce  or  ginger  beer,  you  may  employ  good  raw 
or  even  lump  sugar  instead  of  treacle. 

Both  spruce  and  ginger  beer  are  wholesome  and  agreeable 
liquors,  provided  the  treacle  or  sugar  which  is  employed  be 
decomposed  before  it  is'drunk.  While  there  is  any  sweetness 
in  them,  they  will  be  found  to  disagree  with  many  stomachs. 

And  note,  lastly,  concerning  such  liquors,  that  you  may 
impart  any  other  flavour  to  them  which  you  may  prefer; 


CYDER  AND  PERRY. 


389 

;  namely,  that  of  the  grated  outside  peel  of  the  orange  or 
the  lemon;  nay,  you  may  put  even  hops  to  flavour  them. 
And  those  who  are  fond  of  the  bitter  of  chamomile  flowers* 
will  find  them  quite  as  agreeable  as  the  hop.  The  wild 
flowers  which  may  be  gathered  on  Blackheath  and  many 
other  places  in  this  country,  are  the  best  for  this  purpose ; 
they  should  be  employed  in  a  dried  state. 

To  CORRECT  THE  HARDNESS  OR  ACIDITY  OF  MALT 

liquors  it  has  now  become  very  common  to  mix  a  small 
quantity  of  carbonate  of  potashf  with  them  wThen  they  are 
brought  to  the  table  ;  the  potash  uniting  with  the  stronger 
acid  in  the  beer,  the  carbonic  acid  is  set  free,  and  the 
liquor  is  thus  rendered  more  frisky  and  wholesome.  It  is, 
nevertheless,  a  troublesome  process  to  be  undertaken  at  the 
time  of  dinner  in  particular  ;  our  own  plan  of  drinking 
pure  water  is  much  to  be  preferred. 

CYDER  and  PERRY  are  the  native  wines  of  this 
country.  The  mode  of  making  both  are  so  similar  that  it 
is  not  necessary  we  should  devote  a  separate  article  to  each. 
We  may  premise,  however,  in  regard  to  cyder,  that 
genuine  cyder  either  of  the  West  of  England  or  of  Here¬ 
fordshire  is  rarely,  if  ever,  to  be  obtained  in  London. 
What  is  obtained  in  the  metropolis  is  a  sweet,  frisky  liquor, 
that  has  very  little  spirit  in  it ;  and  it  is  rather  remarkable, 
but  nevertheless  true,  that  a  good,  strong,  and  genuine 
cyder  drunk  in  the  place  where  it  is  made,  is  not  often  re¬ 
lished  by  the  citizen  ;  it  is  to  him  too  rough  and  sharp. 

The  best  apples  for  cyder  are  those  which  ripen  about 
or  rather  after  Michaelmas  ;  it  is  true,  you  may  make 
cyder  from  codlings  and  stubhords,  both  of  which  ripen 
early,  the  last  a  very  pleasant  apple  for  the  table  ;  but  the 
cyder  from  both,  although  agreeably  tasted,  is  not  strong, 
and  will,  therefore,  not  keep  long.  The  g-oodness  of  the 
juice  of  the  apple  for  cyder  may  be  determined  with 


*  Antheinis  nobilis,  a  perennial  plant.  The  cultivated  or  double 
chamomile  flower  is  that  usually  employed  in  medicine  ;  but  the 
wild  flowers  are  the  strongest.  A  strong  infusion  of  chamomile 
flowers  made  by  pouring  boiling  w'ater  upon  them,  with  the  addition 
of  ginger  or  cloves,  in  a  covered  vessel,  is  excellent  in  many  dys¬ 
peptic  complaints.  One  or  even  two  ounces  may  be  taken  for  a 
dose  twice  or  thrice  a  day.  See  forwards,  Medicinal  Cookery. 
t  See  carbonate  of  potash,  page  368,  note. 


390 


CYDER. 


tolerable  exactness  :  take  one  pint  wine  measure  as  soon  as 
it  is  expressed  from  the  ripe  fruit  and  weigh  it.  That  which 
weighs  the  heaviest,  i.  e.  which  has  most  sugar  in  it,  will 
make  the  strongest  cyder.  A  wine  pint  of  the  juice  to 
make  good  strong  cyder  ought  to  weigh  from  seventeen 
ounces  to  seventeen  ounces  and  a  half  avoirdupoise.  If  it 
does  not  weigh  seventeen  ounces,  the  cyder,  we  may  be 
sure,  will  be  poor  and  weak. 

After  what  has  been  said  under  our  articles  Baking  and 
Brewing  concerning  fermentation  and  the  formation 
of  spirit,  little  needs  to  be  here  added,  but  this,  that 
while  it  is  necessary  to  add  yeast  to  the  wort  obtained  from 
malt  in  order  to  excite  a  proper  and  expeditious  fermenta¬ 
tion,  the  expressed  juices  of  both  the  apple  and  the  pear 
will  go  almost  immediately  after  it  is  expressed,  without 
any  addition  of  yeast  or  other  fermenting  materials,  in 
ordinary  temperatures,  into  the  vinous  fermentation.  This 
arises  from  the  fact,  that  with  the  juice  is  also  expressed  a 
small  portion  of  gluten,  on  which  the  vinous  fermentation 
appears  to  depend  for  its  activity,  and  the  due  completion 
of  the  process  for  the  formation  of  the  spirit  or  alcohol, 
whence  the  strength  of  malt  liquors,  as  well  as  that  of 
cyder,  perry,  and  wines,  is  derived ;  the  flavour  of  all 
these  being  from  another  source,  viz.  either  from  some  es¬ 
sential  oil,  or  from  the  extractive  or  other  matter  which 
the  respective  liquors  contain. 

The  great  harvest  for  apples  is  in  the  month  of  October. 
Of  the  kind  of  apples  most  proper  for  making  cyder,  there  is 
considerable  difference  of  opinion  ;  but,  as  we  have  said,  that 
apple  whose  juice  weighs  as  above,  may  be  safely  chosen  ; 
most  cyder-makers  prefer  a  mixture  of  many  sorts  of  apples 
to  that  of  using  only  one  kind.  Whatever  kinds  are  used, 
it  is  necessary  that  they  should  be  thoroughly  ripe  before 
the  juice  is  expressed  from  them  ;  and  although  some  ripen 
on  the  trees,  many  require  to  be  kept  for  two  or  even  more 
weeks  before  they  will  be  fit  to  be  ground  up  for  cyder. 
Indeed,  apples,  although  quite  ripe  when  shaken  off  the 
tree,  will  make  the  best  and  strongest  cyder  if  kept  for 
some  time  in  heaps,  in  dry  weather,  in  the  open  air ;  or 
in  wet,  spread  over  a  dry  wooden  floor  where  there  is 
plenty  of  circulation  of  the  air ;  the  criterion  for  keeping 
them  may  be  their  beginning  slightly  to  decay  ;  but  they 


CYDER. 


391 


must  not  be  rotten ,  as  some  persons  have  pretended.  The 
reason  for  keeping  them  thus  long  is,  that  a  considerable 
portion  of  the  water  which  they  contain  will  escape,  and 
the  juice  by  such  means  will  become  more  heavy  and  the 
cyder  stronger.  Whereas,  when  they  are  ground  up  the 
moment  they  are  obtained  from  the  trees,  the  cyder  from  them 
will  be  generally  thin  and  poor.  It  should  also  be  re¬ 
membered  that  the  taste  of  an  apple  is  no  criterion  of  its 
quality  for  cyder ;  that  one  which  is  extremely  pleasant  to 
eat,  the  stubbord  for  instance,  may  make  a  very  inferior 

3  cyder  compared  to  another  whose  taste  is  bitter,  acid,  and 
even  offensive:  the  Bitter  Jersey  makes  good  cyder,  but 
it  has  a  very  disagreeable  taste. 

It  is  not  our  design  in  this  article  to  describe  the  mill  and 
press  used  for  obtaining  cyder ;  for  these  recourse  may  be 
had  to  our  Family  Cyclopaedia  article  Cyder;  or  to 
an  article  written  by  the  author  of  the  present  work,  and 
inserted  in  Mowbray’s  work  on  Poultry,  mentioned  in 
a  preceding  page.  But  the  mill  and  press  being  at  hand 
and  the  pommage  or  pummace  being  ready  for  pressing,  it 
is  either  put  into  hair  bags  and  pressed  ;  or  good  clean  and 
sweet  wheat  straw  is  employed,  with  which  it  is  made  into 
a  cheese  with  alternate  layers  of  the  pommage  till  it  be- 
;  comes  as  large  and  as  high  as  the  bed  of  the  press  will 
properly  admit.  It  is  then  pressed  gradually  down ;  and, 
if  a  cheese,  its  outside  is  shorn  off  once  or  more,  the 
shearing  placed  on  the  top,  and  again  the  whole  is  pressed 
down  very  tight.  The  cyder  being  thus  obtained  should  be 
immediately  strained  and  put  into  the  cask  in  which  it  is 
designed  to  be  kept.  The  cask  should  be  full  or  within  an 
inch  or  two,  so  that  when  the  fermentation  takes  place  the 
feculent  matter  floating  at  the  top  may  flow  out  at  the  bung- 
hole,  which  should  be  left  quite  open  for  some  days.  As 
soon  as  the  fermentation  will  permit  a  bung  in  the  hole,  it 
should  be  put  in  slightly  at  first,  and  after  a  fewT  weeks 
more  tightly  ;  nor  should  the  liquor  be  at  all  disturbed  till 
it  is  wanted  to  be  drunk  :  for  if  all  these  directions  be  fol¬ 
lowed,  the  best  cyder  will  be  obtained  by  this  very  simple 
process.  What  is  called  the  keeving  of  cyder  we  do  not 
approve  for  the  reasons  assigned  under  breioing ,  page  383. 

It  is  usual  after  the  cyder  is  expressed  to  obtain  from  the 
pommage  what  is  called  a  water  cyder ;  that  is,  to  a  cheese 


392 


CYDER. 


which  has  produced  about  a  hogshead  (63  gallons)  of  cyder, 
a  pail  full  (about  six  or  eight  gallons)  of  water  is  added  by 
making  holes  in  the  cheese,  shearing  it  again  on  the  outside, 
and  letting  the  water  remain  in  it  soaking  for  a  night,  and  then 
expressing  the  diluted  juice  as  before.  This  juice  is  to  be 
treated  in  a  similar  way  to  the  pure  juice  itself.  It  makes 
a  pleasant  table  beverage  for  a  family  if  drunk  soon,  but  it 
will  not  keep  long. 

We  may  just  mention  that  sugar,  being  added  to  good 
cyder  immediately  after  it  is  expressed,  improves  its  strength 
but  not  its  taste;  that  four  ounces  or  more  of  sugar  added 
to  each  gallon  of  a  poor  cyder  (that  is,  one  which  weighs 
less  than  seventeen  ounces  to  the  pint)  when  it  is  expressed, 
not  afterwards,  will  improve  it. 

Of  good  cyder ,  as  a  summer  beverage  for  persons  whose 
occupations  are  in  the  open  air,  too  much  can  scarcely  be 
said  in  its  praise;  its  acid  quenches  thirst  much  better 
than  malt  liquor.  It  has  been  said  that  it  sometimes  pro¬ 
duces  colic,  but  prepared  in  wooden  vessels  ( leaden  ones 
were  formerly  sometimes  employed)  we  have  never  known 
it  to  be  thus  injurious.  In  the  secondary  fever  after  the 
measles  in  children  we  have  seen  it  highly  beneficial. 

Various  have  been  the  attempts  to  improve  upon  the  simple 
process  of  making  cyder  above  given.  As  they  have  for 
the  most  part  been  adopted  on  erroneous  principles,  they 
have,  of  course,  failed.  One  in  particular  is  uncommonly 
silly,  namely,  that  of  preventing  the  vinous  fermentation  by 
racking  the  liquor,  by  not  reflecting  or  not  knowing  that  no 
cyder  can  be  strong  which  has  not  fermented ;  and  not  know¬ 
ing  likewise  that  racking  any  fermented  liquor  must  necessa¬ 
rily  tend  to  dissipate  some  of  the  spirit  already  formed ;  that, 
in  a  word,  a  sweet  and  a  strong  cyder  are  incompatible 
with  this  native  wine ;  and  that,  sooner  or  later,  the  sweetness 
will  be  gone ;  in  other  words,  the  sugar  in  the  cyder  will 
be  decomposed.  No  wonder,  therefore,  if  the  sweet  cyder 
sold  in  London  has  been  obtained  by  racking ,  that  it  is  so 
poor  and  spiritless ,  notwithstanding  it  is  so  frisky. 

Although,  as  we  have  said,  the  process  of  making  perry 
is  essentially  the  same  as  that  for  apples,  yet  in  regard  to 
the  keeping  of  pears  after  they  are  taken  from  the  trees, 
more  circumspection  is  necessary  than  for  apples:  for  many 
sorts  of  pears  become  rotten  within  while  they  show  a  fair 


PERRY. 


393 

outside,  and  hence  such  pears  are  not  likely  to  produce  a 
good  liquor;  a  liquor  which  has  been  likened  to  champagne. 
As  the  sprightliness  of  that,  as  well  as  of  cyder  and  perry , 
depends  upon  the  large  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  gas  which 
they  all  contain,  exposing  any  of  those  liquors  to  the  atmos¬ 
phere,  either  by  racking  or  otherwise,  must  tend  to  dissipate 
that  gas  on  which,  particularly  in  champagne  and  perry,  their 
agreeableness  is  chiefly  founded.  Hence  we  may  learn,  too, 

,  the  necessity  of  keeping  all  such  fermented  liquors  in  a  cool 
place. 

According  to  Mr.  Brande,  the  proportion  per  cent,  of 
|  spirit  or  alcohol  is  in 

Champagne . 12,61 

Cyder,  highest  average,  9,87 

- lowest  do.  •  •  •  •  5,21 

Perry . 7,26 

For  further  information  concerning  cyder  and  apples, 
our  Family*  Cyclopaedia  may  be  consulted.  But  we 
may,  nevertheless,  add  here,  concerning  the  culture  of  the 
apple,  that  John  Philips  in  his  celebrated  poem  entitled 
Cyder,  describes  the  soil  &c.  best  adapted  to  apple-trees. 

1  We  must  not  forget,  however,  that  his  precepts  are  written 
chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  for  the  climate,  soii,  and  seasons 
of  Herefordshire  ;  and  that,  although  those  precepts  are 
good  wrhen  applied  to  some  cyder  districts,  yet  to  others 
;  they  are  not  always  applicable.  In  the  level  districts  of 
Somersetshire,  for  example,  the  ivest  wind  is  not  commonly 
a  desirable  visitant,  particularly  when  an  orchard  is  a  few 
miles  distant  from  the  sea ;  that  wind  being  often  highly 
impregnated  with  saline  particles,  which  are  peculiarly  in¬ 
jurious  to  vegetation ;  and,  therefore,  orchards  so  situated 
ought,  if  possible,  to  be  sheltered  by  high  trees  planted  on 
their  borders  so  as  to  obstruct  the  currents  of  such  air, 
always  preventing,  however,  such  trees  from  extending 
their  branches  over  the  apple  trees.  Of  the  mischievous 
tendency  of  north,  north-east,  and  east  tvinds  to  orchards 
generally,  there  can  be  no  doubt,  and  therefore  similar 
shelter  by  trees,  as  in  the  former  case,  is  always  desirable. 
See  further  on  this  subject  Mowbray,  as  quoted  above, 
page  351.  Rich  and  sheltered  bottoms  with  a  good  depth 
of  dark  soil  are  beyond  question  best  for  apple  orchards. 

s  3 


394 


WINES. 


WINES. 


Who  is  he  that  hath  not  felt 
The  power  of  sparkling  wine? 

Who  is  he  that  will  deny 
It  sometimes  is  divine  ? 

Who  is  he  that  hath  not  seen 
From  wine  arise  much  evil  ? 

Who  is  he  that  will  deny 
It  sometimes  is  the  devil  ? 

Drink,  then,  only  sober  draughts 
Of  good  and  sparkling  wine  ; 

And  it  shall  ever  be  to  you 
A  nectar  all  divine. 


General  Observations.  As  a  preliminary  to  the 
present  section,  the  reader  will  be  good  enough  to  refer  to 
what  is  said  under  Barley  in  page  208,  and  again  to 
page  244  in  the  text,  as  well  as  the  note,  concerning  Wine; 
in  page  265  to  the  general  observations  on  pies  ;  to  the 
observations  on  the  vinous  fermentation  in  page  332,  and 
to  all  the  preceding  as  well  as  subsequent  sections  of  this 
chapter,  and  to  that  particularly  on  Cyder  and  Perry. 

Wine,  it  needs  scarcely  to  be  observed,  is  the  fermented 
juice  of  the  grape.  The  best  wines  to  be  obtained  in  this 
country  are  produced  in  the  south  of  Europe,  in  the  island 
of  Madeira,  and  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  ;  they  are  con¬ 
sequently  all  foreign  articles  ;  and  every  one  of  them  which 
contains  much  alcohol,  that  constitutes  their  strength ,  is 
produced  in  warmer  climates  than  any  in  Great  Britain, 
and,  therefore,  much  more  favourable  to  the  perfect  ripen¬ 
ing  of  the  grape,  and  also  to  the  more  perfect  fermen¬ 
tation  of  the  juice  after  it  is  expressed.  He,  therefore, 
who  desires  the  best  wine,  how  mortifying  soever  it  may 
be  to  an  Englishman’s  pride  and  pocket,  must  obtain  it 
from  warmer  climates  than  his  own.  Many  persons,  it  is 
true,  attempt  the  making  of  wine  from  not  only  grapes 
ripened  in  this  country,  but  also  from  many  other  fruits  ; 
and  sometimes,  under  very  favourable  circumstances,  a  to¬ 
lerable  wine  is  produced ;  but,  generally  speaking,  all  the 
wines  made  in  this  country  are  poor  succedaneums  for  port, 
sherry,  or  Madeira. 


WINES— THE  VINE.  395 

As,  however,  there  are,  and  perhaps  always  will  be,  per¬ 
sons  in  Great  Britain  who  desire  to  make  their  own  wines, 
we  shall  here  endeavour  to  lay  down  a  few  practical  direc¬ 
tions  for  their  guidance,  premising’  that  when  it  becomes 
necessary  to  add  sugar  to  the  juice  of  any  fruit  in  order 
to  make  even  a  drinkable  wine,  this  addition  is  itself  an 
all-convincing  proof  that  the  juice,  of  even  the  grape,  here 
does  not  naturally  contain  sufficient  sugar  (as  it  does  in  the 
wine  countries  of  the  south  of  Europe,  Madeira,  and  the 
Cape  of  Good  Hope,  as  well  as  some  other  warm  climates,) 
to  constitute,  when  fermented,  a  good  wine ;  and  hence  the 
flavour  of  the  wine,  if  it  possess  any,  is  thus  considerably 
diluted  or  altered  ;  and  more  especially  will  this  be  the  case, 
if  water  in  addition  to  the  sugar  be  mixed  with  the  juice. 

The  principal  substances  in  grape-juice,  besides,  of  course, 
a  considerable  portion  of  water,  are  sugar,  gum ,  gluten, 
and  supertartrate  of  potash  ;  this  last  article  is  usually 
called  Tartar,  and  when  it  is  purified,  it  constitutes  the 
cream  of  tartar  of  the  shops.  In  the  wine  countries  the 
juice  of  the  ripe  grape  is  called  must,  and  being  placed  in 
vats  or  casks,  spontaneously  undergoes,  as  cyder  does  in 
this  country,  the  vinous  fermentation,  by  which  it  becomes 
a  strong  and  intoxicating  liquor  in  consequence  of  the 
alcohol  or  spirit  which  is  formed  in  it  during  the  process. 
The  tartar  adheres  to  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  casks,  and 
is  either  reddish  or  whitish,  according  to  the  colour  of  the 
grapes.* 

*  We  have  shortly  described  the  Corinth  raisin,  or  currant  and 
other  raisins,  in  page  253  ;  we  shall  here  complete  our  notice  of 
the  grape,  which  is  the  fruit  of  the  vitis  vinifera,  or  vine,  (whence 
the  almost  innumerable  varieties  of  grapes  are  said  to  be  derived,) 
originally  a  native  of  Persia,  but  now  spread  over  all  the  warmer 
parts  of  Europe,  into  the  western  portion  of  which  it  is  stated  to 
have  been  introduced  in  the  year  280  of  the  Christian  era,  under 
the  sanction  of  Probus,  the  Roman  emperor.  It  was,  however, 
cultivated  in  many  parts  of  Asia,  as  well  as  in  Greece  and  Italy, 
long  before  the  Christian  era,  as  the  Scriptures,  as  well  as  other 
histories,  attest.  Among  the  Romans,  indeed,  the  use  of  wine 
was  so  common,  and  its  effects  so  well  known,  that  a  pro¬ 
verb,  in  vino  veritas,  in  wine  truth,  that  is,  a  drunken  man  tells 
the  truth,  was  current  amongst  them.  Their  poets,  too,  often 
sang  the  praises  of  wine  :  Horace  has  his  vinique  fontem,  in  an 
ode  expressly  addressed  to  Bacchus ;  while  Virgil  has  in  his  se¬ 
cond  Georgia  taught  us 

“  How  to  raise  on  elms  the  teeming  vine.” 


396 


WINES — THE  VINE. 


The  ingredients  necessary  for  converting  the  juice  of 
fruits  into  wine  are,  water,  contained  in  the  juice  itself, 
sugar,  tartar,  and  vegetable  mucilage,  or  gluten,  to  which 
must  be  added  a  proper  temperature,  so  that  the  process 
of  fermentation  may  be  gone  through,  without  which  no 
good  wine  can  be  made  ;  the  degree  necessary  is  about  that 
usually  called  summer-heat  in  this  country,  namely,  76° 
of  Fahrenheit’s  thermometer  ;  belowr  60°  is  too  cold,  and 
above  80°  will  be  too  hot.  The  presence  of  tartar  appears 
to  be  necessary  to  the  production  of  good  wine ;  and,  there¬ 
fore  it  has  been  suggested  that  its  addition  to  the  juices 
of  our  native  fruits  will  be  advantageous.  But  we,  never- 

See  the  conclusion  of  this  article  for  an  ode  written  by  Anacreon 
the  Greek  poet,  on  the  propriety  of  drinking  with  moderation.  See 
also  page  244,  the  note  on  virgin's  milk,  the  wine  so  called,  or 
virginis  lac. 

The  vine  has  also  been  found  growing  wild  in  America.  It  is 
also  said  that  vineyards  existed  in  several  parts  of  this  country 
some  centuries  ago;  but  we  suspect,  nevertheless,  that  the  wine 
produced  from  them  could  not  have  been  good.  It  is  said  that 
the  best  climates  for  the  grape  lie  between  the  thirtieth  and  fifty- 
first  degree  of  latitude  ;  and,  hence,  it  is  not  probable  that  any  part 
of  this  country,  unless  very  peculiarly  situated,  can  be  favourable 
to  the  production  of  grapes  for  wine  ;  in  other  words,  it  will  not 
ripen  them  sufficiently  without  art.  The  vine  is  usually  propa¬ 
gated  by  cuttings  or  layers ;  new  varieties  by  seed.  It  is  in  this 
country  usually  trained  against  a  wall  ;  or  in  a  hot  or  green-house, 
in  which  places  the  grapes  ripen  early,  and  are  very  fine.  The 
acknowledged  varieties,  both  of  the  white  and  black  grape,  are 
exceedingly  numerous  ;  Loudon  names  fifty-six.  The  vine  attains, 
it  is  said,  to  as  great  an  age  as  the  oak  ;  Pliny  mentions  a  vine 
which  had  existed  six  hundred  years.  In  Italy  there  are  vine¬ 
yards  which  have  been  in  a  flourishing  state  for  more  than  three 
centuries  ;  and  it  is  said,  that  one  only  a  hundred  years  old  is 
considered  young.  Several  v  ines  in  this  country  are  much  more 
than  one  hundred  years  old;  one  of  the  largest  is  at  Hampton 
Court,  the  produce  of  w  hich  has  sometimes  been  2,200  bunches, 
averaging  in  weight  one  pound  each.  It  is  said,  however,  that 
bunches  have  been  grown  of  the  Syrian  grape,  in  Syria,  that 
weighed  forty  pounds  ;  and  that  some  bunches  of  the  same  grape 
in  England  have  weighed  from  ten  to  nineteen  pounds ;  but  these 
are  extraordinary  productions. 

Whatever  might  be  the  utility  of  our  domestic  grape  for  wine, 
there  can  be  no  doubt,  as  it  is  ordinarily  found  ripe  in  this  country, 
that  it  is  a  wholesome  as  well  as  agreeable  fruit  when  eaten  in 
moderate  quantity,  but  excess  in  this,  as  in  every  other  fruit,  must 
be  avoided :  the  skins  as  well  as  seed  should  both  be  rejected. 
The  unripe  grape  makes  a  pleasant  tart. 


WINES. 


397 

theless,  doubt  this.  Sugar  is  the  fundamental  article  in 
the  fabrication  of  all  wines,  and  to  this,  and  to  this  alone, 
we  must  look  for  their  strength;  it  is  that  whence  only 
their  spirit  is  obtained. 

The  natural  leaven  of  fruits  of  every  kind  appears  to  be 
gluten  ;  and  hence  the  juice  of  the  apple,  the  pear,  and  the 
grape,  soon  after  it  is  expressed,  goes  spontaneously  into  the 
vinous  fermentation.  But,  as  we  have  seen  under  Brew¬ 
ing,  where  we  have  an  artificial  liquor,  and  by  adding 
sugar  to  the  juice  of  fruit  it  becomes  artificial,  it  is  necessary 
to  add  yeast  to  it,  in  order  that  the  fermentation  should  be 
more  effectually  excited,  and  thus  the  added  sugar  be  more 
completely  decomposed.* 

It  too  often,  however,  happens  that  all  English  wines, 
after  the  active  fermentation  has  ceased,  retain  a  consi¬ 
derable  portion  of  sweetness;  this,  though  agreeable  to 
many  persons,  is  one  of  the  worst  of  all  symptoms  in  wines 
next  to  that  of  their  being  sour:  for,  no  sooner  do  such 
■wines  enter  the  stomach  than  the  process  of  fermentation 
(begins,  and  produces  the  ordinary  and  oppressive  symptoms 
attendant  on  dyspepsia ;  and  hence  the  reason  why  elder 
wine,  raisin  wine ,  &c.  &c .  are  improper  for  every  one 
■whose  stomach  has  the  least  tendency  to  acidity  and  in¬ 
digestion. 

Such  wines  ought,  after  the  active  fermentation  is  over, 
to  be  kept  in  a  place  sufficiently  warm  to  continue  it,  so 
that  the  remaining  sugar  may  be  decomposed,  and  the 
(sweetness  thus  be  gradually  removed.  But  considerable 
caution  is  here  necessary ;  for  if  the  wine  be  bottled  in  its 
sweet  state,  and  the  temperature  be  much  raised,  the  dis¬ 
engagement  of  the  carbonic  acid  gas  might  be  so  copious 
that  the  bottles  may  burst.  It  will  be  better  therefore  not 
to  bottle  very  sweet  wine,  but  to  let  it  remain  in  the  cask, 
placed  in  a  proper  temperature,  as  above  stated,  tiil  much 
of  the  sweetness  is  gone  off.  See  what  is  said  on  Wine 
in  our  Family  Cyclopaedia.  The  necessity  of  keeping 

*  Treacle,  containing  a  mucilaginous  matter  besides  sugar, 
more  readily  enters  into  the  vinous  fermentation  than  purified 
sugar,  although  its  coarseness  of  taste  renders  it  unfit  for  elegant 
wines.  When,  therefore,  refined  sugars  are  employed  in  the 
making  of  wine,  a  larger  quantity  of  3  east  is  necessary  than  when 
we  employ  treacle. 


WINES. 


398 

wine  at  a  proper  temperature  till  it  is  completely  fermented, 
constitutes  one  of  the  chief  difficulties  in  the  making  of 
wines  in  this  country,  and  is  perhaps  the  chief  if  not  the 
only  reason  why  home-made  wines  are  rarely  if  ever  good, 
when  compared  with  foreign  wines. 

It  should  be  noted,  too,  that  wines,  imperfectly  fermented 
in  the  autumn,  remain  in  the  winter  temperature  of  this 
country  quiescent,  and,  on  the  return  of  spring,  the  fer¬ 
mentation  begins  again.  On  bottling  the  wine  at  this  time 
a  brisk  wine  may  be  obtained.  At  such  second  fermenta¬ 
tion  flavouring  matters  may  be  advantageously  added,  and 
spirits,  if  ever  allowable,  maybe  then  introduced;  but  it 
is  the  quality  of  spirits,  of  whatever  kind,  to  check  fer¬ 
mentation  ;  and,  therefore,  if  a  wine  need  spirit,  it  is  best 
to  be  added  just  before,  or  at  the  time  at  which,  the  fer¬ 
mentation  is  completed.  This  is  altogether  a  nice  point 
and  requires  careful  attention. 

It  should  be  also  noted,  that,  although  a  certain  elevation 
of  temperature  is  necessary  to  the  complete  fermentation  of 
wine,  after  the  fermentation  is  completed  the  sooner  the 
wine  is  placed  in  a  lower  temperature  and  below  60°  the 
better,  as  then  no  possible  advantage  can  be  derived  to  it 
from  a  high  temperature.  In  whatever  temperature  wine 
be  kept,  it  ought  to  be,  if  possible,  uniform  ;  a  cool  cellar, 
or  a  bin  in  such  cellar,  is  the  best. 

The  methods  of  making  wines  from  unripe  grapes  and 
other  fruit  are  described  in  Dr.  M  acculloch’s  celebrated 
treatise  on  the  art  of  making  wine ,  and  the  substance  of 
those  methods  will  be  found  in  our  Family  Cyclop.ldia 
article  wine ;  but,  as  we  do  not  perceive  the  utility  of  such 
wines,  we  forbear  to  repeat  them  here  :  for  they  never  can 
be  made  into  good  wine  without  a  large  addition  of  sugar, 
and  are,  besides,  not  such  wines  as  we  can  cordially  recom¬ 
mend.  The  curious  in  these  matters  will,  of  course,  refer 
to  the  works  mentioned  should  they  desire  further  informa¬ 
tion  concerning  them. 

WINE  FROM  RIPE  GRAPES.  The  g’rapes  being 
freed  from  the  stalks,  well  bruised,  and  the  juice  carefully 
expressed,  put  to  every  gallon  of  it  one  pound  of  sugar  at 
least;  if  the  juice  do  not  possess  considerable  sweetness,  as 
much  as  two  pounds  of  sugar  may  be  necessary  for  each 
gallon.  Set  the  liquor  by  in  a  place  at  which  the  ternpe- 


WINES — GOOSEBERRY-WINE.  399 

rature  is  about  60°  or  more;  when  the  fermentation  begins, 
which  it  will  in  a  day  or  two,  the  cask  in  which  it  is  de¬ 
signed  to  be  put  must  be  filled  with  the  liquor,  so  that,  as 
the  fermentation  proceeds,  the  scum  may  be  thrown  out. 
A  portion  of  the  liquor  must  be  reserved  to  fill  up  the  cask 
to  the  bung-hole  from  time  to  time  as  the  liquor  diminishes. 
When  the  fermentation  declines,  the  bung  must  be  driven 
in  and  a  small  hole  stopped  with  a  peg  be  made  in  the  cask 
in  order  to  let  out  occasionally  the  superfluous  carbonic  acid 
which  will  be,  possibly,  generated.  When  the  danger  from 
excessive  expansion  is  over,  the  peg  should  be  driven  in 
tight.  The  wine  may  remain  in  this  state  through  the 
winter ;  or  it  may  be,  if  sufficiently  fermented,  decanted 
from  the  lees  in  December ;  or,  if  not,  it  may  be  shaken 
up  with  the  lees  to  complete  its  fermentation.  It  may  be 
bottled  in  March;  and  note ,  that  all  bottling  as  well  as 
other  shifting  of  wine  should,  if  possible,  be  performed  in 
clear  and  cold  weather. 

Note,  that  no  yeast  is  ordered  in  the  above  form  (which 
is  essentially  Dr.  Macculloch’s)  for  grape  wine;  and 
provided  the  temperature  mentioned,  namely,  about  60°, 
can  be  preserved  throughout  the  process,  it  is  probable  that 
no  yeast  may  be  necessary;  but  if,  from  the  first,  the  fer¬ 
mentation  be  so  languid  as  to  be  scarcely  perceptible,  a 
little  good  yeast  may  be  added  with  perhaps  advantage. 
And  note,  also,  that  no  water  is  required  for  the  reasons 
stated  in  our  general  observations :  the  juice  of  grapes 
ripened  in  this  country  require  sugar;  they  possess  too 
much  water  and  acid  when  compared  with  their  proportion 
of  sugar  :  water  should  not  therefore  be  added  to  it. 

A  WINE  FROM  RIPE  GOOSEBERRIES,  CUR¬ 
RANTS,  or  RASPBERRIES.  The  juice  of  these  fruits, 
after  it  is  expressed,  must  be  treated  in  precisely  the  same 
way  as  is  directed  for  ripe  grapes;  but  the  sugar  must  be  in 
larger  quantity. 

RAISIN  WINE.  To  one  gallon  of  water  put  seven 
pounds  of  raisins  picked  clean  from  the  stalks.  Stir  them 
three  or  four  times  a  day  for  a  month ;  then  bruise  them 
and  press  the  liquor  off  and  put  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of 
yeast.  If  fine  in  five  months,  it  may  be  bottled.  It  must, 
of  course,  be  kept  during  its  fermentation  in  a  proper  degree 


400 


RAISIN  —  ELDER-WINE. 


of  heat,  and  otherwise  treated  similarly  to  grape  wine 
above. 

Note,  that  from  these  simple  directions  for  making  wine, 
a  wine  from  the  juice  of  any  other  fruit  may  be  easily  made. 
In  the  fermentation  of  wine  it  should  be  observed  that  a 
portion  or  the  whole  of  the  leaven  or  gluten  is  separated  in 
two  forms,  one  that  of  yeast  which  floats  on  the  surface  of 
the  liquor,  and  the  other  lees  found  at  the  bottom.  If 
certain  proportions  of  sugar  and  leaven,  whether  natural  or 
artificial,  be  employed,  the  result  will  be  a  vinous  liquor, 
not  tasting  of  sugar  and  very  little  of  acid  ;  but  if  the 
leaven  be  deficient,  the  wine  will  contain  undecomposed 
sugar,  and  be,  of  course,  sweet  and  imperfectly  fermented. 
Such,  in  fact,  are  almost  all  of  our  domestic  or  home-made 
wines.  To  remedy  in  part  this  defect,  the  yeast  of  beer  is 
added ;  but  it  communicates  a  flavour  that  is  more  or  less 
disagreeable,  and  from  which  wTine  should  be  free.  There¬ 
fore  yeast  should  be  never  employed  in  making  wine  if  it 
can  be  avoided. 

If  after  some  time  the  wine  should  not  be  sufficiently 
fermented,  the  head  which  rises  should  be  broken  and 
mixed  with  the  fermenting  liquor,  or  be  otherwise  agitated 
repeatedly  till  the  desired  effect  is  produced. 

ELDER  WINE.  This  is  made  in  a  variety  of  ways; 
the  following  is  perhaps  as  good  as  any.  Take  ripe  elder 
berries  and  scald  them  in  a  stev/pan  or  other  convenient 
vessel ;  bruise  them  as  much  as  possible  and  press  out  the 
juice,  to  every  quart  of  which  put  a  pound  of  moist  sugar, 
which  when  dissolved  in  the  juice  must  be  boiled  and  the 
skum  taken  off.  When  it  is  nearly  cold,  put  to  it  a  toast 
of  bread  well  soaked  in  yeast.  Let  it  ferment  two  or  three 
days,  and  then  put  it  into  the  cask  in  wflfich  you  design  to 
keep  it.  In  six  months  it  will  be,  most  probably,  if  kept 
in  a  tolerably  w'arm  temperature,  fit  for  being  bottled. 

Note ,  that  some  put  water  to  the  juice  ;  in  such  case 
more  sugar  must  be  employed  ;  and  some  add  ginger  and 
other  spices  to  this  wine.  But  we  consider  the  best  elder 
wine  a  very  indifferent  article.  It  is  always,  as  we  find  it, 
too  sweet,  consequently  incompletely  fermented,  and  suits 
only  the  most  robust  stomachs. 

FRONTINIAC  WINE.  To  ten  gallons  of  the  above 


SHERRY — M A  D  E I  R A . 


401 


must  or  expressed  liquor  from  the  raisins,  obtained  as 
mentioned  above  under  Raisin'  Wine,  add  half  a  bushel 
of  elder  flowers  freed  from  the  green  stalks. 

CLARY  WINE.  To  ten  gallons  of  the  same  must  add 
half  a  bushel  of  clary  flowers. 

SHERRY  WINE.  To  ten  gallons  of  the  same  must 
add  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  made  into  an  emulsion  : 
that  is,  beaten  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  sugar  and 
i  water. 

PORT  WINE.  To  ten  gallons  of  the  same  must,  add 
»ix  pounds  of  the  juice  or  pulp  of  black  cherries  obtained 
by  bruizing  and  pressing  ;  and  two  quarts  of  the  juice  of 
does  obtained  by  boiling  or  rather  stewing  them  in  some  of 
he  wine  in  a  close  vessel  for  an  hour,  and  then  pressing  the 
uice  off. 

ORANGE  WINE  or  LEMON  WINE  may  be  made 
)y  adding  to  the  same  a  considerable  quantity  of  the 
mtside  j)eel  of  those  fruits  grated  first  and  then  beaten 
nto  a  pulp  with  a  little  sugar.  But  put  none  of  the  juice 
if  these  fruits  to  your  vrine.  The  acid  is  not  wanted. 
Dr,  instead  of  the  must,  sugar  and  water  may  be  employed 
vith  the  orange  and  lemon-peel.  See  the  next  article. 

MADEIRA  WINE.  To  every  gallon  of  water  put 
hree  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  and  skim  it  well;  put  it  into 
,  tub  for  a  day  or  two,  with  good  yeast  in  the  proportion 
f  two  or  more  ounces  to  every  gallon ;  to  every  five  gallons 
>ut  one  gallon  of  strong  ale  wort  just  fit  to  be  tunned.  Put 
he  whole  into  a  cask  ;  and  when  the  fermentation  is  over, 
ne  it  with  isinglass.  The  process  will  require  at  least  six 
aonths  :  lastly,  add  to  the  wine  one  quart  of  brandy. 

GINGER  WINE  may  be  made  with  sugar  and  water, 
,s  in  the  directions  for  M  adeira  wine  ;  it  must  be  also  fer- 
aented  and  fined  in  the  same  manner,  omitting  the  ale 
’ort.  But  instead  of  adding  the  ginger  sliced  to  the 
quor,  or  otherwise  by  an  infusion  of  boiling  water  upon 
be  sliced  root ;  to  obtain  its  virtues,  a  more  elegant  method 
lay  be  adopted  by  making  a  strong  tincture  of  ginger 
ith  proof  spirit  (see  page  189)  or  with  brandy  in  the  pro- 
ortion  of  four  or  more  ounces  of  the  bruised  root  to  every 
int,  shaking  the  mixture  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and 
ben  pressing  off  and  filtering  the  tincture.  This  to  be 


GINGER- WINE — MEAD. 


402 

added  to  the  wine  at  the  same  time  that  the  isinglass  is 
added  to  it,  but  not  before. 

Note,  that  some  direct  the  ginger  to  be  boiled  for  an 
hour  in  water  to  obtain  its  virtues  ;  but  this  is  a  bad  practice, 
as  ginger  by  boiling  becomes  mucilaginous.  Its  virtues 
are  best  obtained  by  infusion,  not  decoction  ;  or,  as  we 
have  directed,  in  a  more  elegant  way,  as  an  essence  or 
tincture. 

MEAD  is  a  wine  made  with  honey  dissolved  in  water 
instead  of  sugar.  Three  pounds  of  honey  are  generally 
put  to  one  gallon  of  water,  which  is  boiled  and  skimmed  as 
directed  for  Madeira  wine  above  ;  it  is  then  fermented  with 
yeast.  Some  will  add  various  condiments  to  it,  such  as 
cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  rosemary,  &c.  But  the  simples! 
and  perhaps  the  best  is  lemon  peel.  Some  who  desire 
make  this  liquor  very  strong  and  to  keep  a  long  time,  pul 
four  pounds  of  honey  to  each  gallon  of  water. 

Note,  that  the  same  objections  may  be  made  to  sweei 
mead  as  to  sweet  wine  ;  such  will  generally  disagree  with 
the  dyspeptic  stomach. 

Note,  that  although  it  is  very  usual  to  employ  isinglasi 
to  render  wine  clear,  in  general,  if  it  be  properly  fer¬ 
mented  and  strong,  it  becomes  clear  without  any  additioi 
whatever. 

CONCLUDING  OBSERVATIONS  on  wine.  W< 
have  thus  given  a  few  forms  for  imitating  foreign  wines 
but  the  reader  must  not  conclude  that  we  consider  even  th< 
best  of  them  by  any  means  equal  to  those  produced  ii 
more  genial  climates  than  our  own.  Even  Madeira,  thi 
produce  of  the  island  of  that  name,  is  materially  improve* 
by  a  voyage  in  the  hold  of  a  ship  to  the  West  Indies ,  am 4 
it  is  made  better  still  by  one  to  the  East  Indies,  a  proo 
this  that  a  long  continuance  of  wine  not  completely  fer 
mented  in  a  warm  temperature,  contributes  to  the  mor 
perfect  decomposition  of  the  sugar,  and  consequently  to  th 
perfection  of  the  wine.  We  have  known,  even  in  thi 
country,  Madeira  materially  improved  in  quality  by  bein: 
kept  for  some  time  in  a  warm  closet. 

Wines  are  distinguished  in  commerce  into  sweet  wines 
sparkling,  or  effervescing  wines ;  dry  and  light ;  an 
dry  and  strong.  The  vino  cotto  of  Italy,  Frontignac 


SPIRIT  IN  WINES.  403 

of  the  wines  of  Canary  and  Malmsey,  belong  to  the 
sweet  class,  and  have,  of  course,  sugar  more  or  less  in 
them  still  undecomposed.  Champagne  belongs  to  the 
iffervescing  wines,  which  is  caused  by  a  large  quantity  of 
:arbonic  acid.  Dry  and  light  ivines  are  such  as  claret ; 
his  wine  Dr.  Paris  prefers  to  even  port.  Dry  and  strong 
vines  are  such  as  madeira,  port ,  and  sherry ,  and  are 
hose  which  in  general  contain  the  greatest  proportion  of 
spirit ;  we  consider  these  last  better  and  more  wholesome 
stimulants  when  taken  in  moderate  quantities  than  any  of 
he  light  wines.  The  following  is,  according  to  Mr. 
Brande,  the  proportion  per  cent  of  alcohol  contained  in 
he  wines  mentioned, 
i 

Port,  highest . 25.83 

!  - ,  lowest  .  19.00 

Madeira,  highest  ....  24.42 

- lowest . 19.24 

Red  Madeira,  average  20.35 

Cape  Madeira,  . 22.94 

Claret,  average .  15.10 

Burgundy,  average  . .  14.45 
Hock,  average  . 12.08 


Sherry,  average . 

19.17 

Lachryma  Christi  .... 

19.70 

Constantia . 

19.75 

Champagne,  average.. 

12.61 

Raisin  wine,  average. . 

25.12 

Gi'ape  wine . 

18.11 

Currant  wine . 

20.55 

Gooseberry  wine  .... 

11.84 

Elder  wine . 

8.79 

Concerning  these  wines  this  fact  must  be  noted,  that 
dthough,  generally ,  wines  are  good  in  proportion  to  the 
[uantity  of  alcohol  which  they  contain ;  yet,  if  a  wine  be 
trong,  i.  e.  if  it  contain  a  large  quantity  of  alcohol,  and 
is  at  the  same  time  sweet ,  it  is  very  often  unfitted  to  enter 
he  human  stomach.  This  is  particularly  the  fact  in  regard 
(O  raisin  wines  made  in  this  country  ;  and  also  in  those 
tailed  cape  Madeira,  many  of  ■which,  although  according 
o  Mr.  Brande  very  strong  wines,  disagree  frequently 
vith  the  stomach  :  but  latterly,  we  believe  that  the  quality 
f  Cape  wine  has  been  much  improved.  There  are  un- 
uestionably  in  some  wines,  besides  the  spirit  and  the 
ugar,  other  ingredients  which  are  beneficial  or  injurious 
o  the  digestive  functions.  Tannin  is  one  of  these,  and 
tence  it  is  probable  that  port  wine  is  beneficial  to  many 
•ersons  in  consequence  of  its  containing  a  considerable 
uantity  of  that  ingredient  as  -well  as  of  spirit.  See  Tannin  , 
tage  ‘200. 

Concerning  the  colour  of  wine,  it  should  be  observed 


404 


A  HARD  DRINKER. 


that  the  juice  of  all  kinds  of  grapes  yields  a  wine  more  o 
less  yellowish,  or,  as  it  is  usually  called,  a  white  wine 
that  the  red  colour  imparted  to  wine  is  either  derived  froir 
the  husks  of  the  black  grape  being  fermented  with  tin 
wine ;  or  the  colour  is  imparted  to  it  by  some  foreigr 
colouring  material.  Dr.  Paris  prefers  the  white  to  th< 
red  wines,  because  they  are  less  loaded  with  extractive  am 
astring-ent  matter ;  port  wine  is,  nevertheless,  an  excellen 
vinous  stimulant  for  many  stomachs. 

EXCESS  IN  THE  DRINKING  OF  WINE  will  b( 
more  strikingly  seen  by  a  simple  statement  of  facts.  Ac¬ 
cording  to  Mr.  Braude’s  table,  the  average  proportion  oi 
alcohol  in  port  wine  is  nearly  23  per  cent  ;  some,  we  see 
is  above  25  pier  cent,  or  one-fourth  of  its  bulk.  Nov 
be  it  well  observed,  alcohol  or  pure  spirit  is,  when  com¬ 
pared  with  good  brandy ,  as  100  to  53.39,  so  that  it  i. 
nearly  double  the  strength  of  this  last  article..  When 
therefore,  vTe  hear  of  persons  who  sometimes  drink  afte: 
dinner  three  bottles,  or  even  more,  of  wine  which  usually 
contain  about  one  pint  and  a  half  by  measure  each ;  anc 
which  four  pints  and  a  half  contain,  at  least,  one  pirn 
of  pure  alcohol,  or  wThat  is  equal  in  strength  to  about  one 
quart  of  brandy,  need  we  wonder  at  the  misery  both  o 
mind  and  body  under  which,  sooner  or  later,  such  hare 
drinkers  labour  ?  * 

*  It  may  be  instructive  here  to  introduce  an  anecdote  of  f 
hard-dp.inker,  on  which  the  reader  may  implicitly  rely,  as  it  i: 
one  that  came  immediately  under  our  own  observation.  Thi 
person  alluded  to  was  naturally  a  very  powerful  and  muscula; 
man,  and  a  great  brawler  among  his  associates.  Pie  lived  in  the 
country,  and  was  conversant  with  agricultural  employment;  but 
being  a  person  of  some  property,  he  was  not  obliged  to  labour 
We  have  known  him  to  drink,  in  the  course  of  two  or  three  hour; 
in  an  afternoon,  without  rising  from  his  seat,  eight  pints  ( one  wint 
gallon)  of  very  strong  cyder,  and  he  has  afterwards  walked  home 
a  distance  of  more  than  half  a  mile,  to  appearance  sober.  Or 
reference  to  our  article  on  Cyder,  page  393,  we  find  the  highes 
average  of  that  liquor  per  cent,  of  alcohol,  according  to  Mr 
Brande’s  table,  to  be  9.87  ;  that  is,  nearly  one-tenth:  We  hav< 
reason  to  believe  that  the  cyder  which  he  drank  contained  mud 
more  alcohol  than  this  proportion,  probably  about  one-eighth,  and 
if  so,  he  must  have  drunk  spirit  equal  to  that  in  a  quart  of  brandy 
But  what  was  the  ultimate  consequence  of  such  excesses  ?  he  be 
came,  for  years,  a  miserable  object  both  in  mind  and  body  ;  hii 


DISTILLATION. 


405 

As  a  finale  to  this  Section  of  our  work  we  beg  leave  to 
iy  before  the  reader  the  LVIIth  ode  of  Anacreon,  as 
ranslated  by  Fawkes, 

That  we  should  drink  with  moderation. 

Bring  hither,  boy,  a  mighty  bowl. 

And  let  me  quench  my  thirsty  soul; 

Fill  two  parts  water,  till  it  high. 

Add  one  of  wine,  for  I  am  dry  ; 

Thus  let  the  limpid  stream  allay 
The.  jolly  god’s  too  potent  sway. 

Quick,  boy,  dispatch — My  Friends,  no  more 
Thus  let  us  drinking  rant,  and  roar  ; 

Such  clamorous  riot  better  suits 
Unpolish’d  Scythia’s  barbarous  brutes  : 

Let  us,  while  music  tunes  the  soul, 

Mir  temperance  in  the  friendly  howl* 

DISTILLATION  is  a  process  by  which  the  most  spi- 
tuous,  volatile,  and  aromatic  particles  of  bodies  are  sepa- 
ated  from  their  grosser  parts,  and  are  thus  rendered  more 
■uitable  for  a  variety  of  purposes,  not  only  in  medicine  and 
1  the  arts,  but  also  in  the  cookery  of  food  and  drink.  We 
lave,  in  pages  386  and  387,  adverted  to  some  of  the  advan- 
iges  to  be  derived  from  a  discreet  use  of  diluted  spirits.  It 
frill  be  our  business  here  to  describe  shortly  the  process  of 
Distillation,  so  that  any  person  of  moderate  capacity  may 
vactise  it.  The  still,  as  seen  in  the  annexed  engraving, 
onsists  of  a  copper  vessel  separable  into  two  parts ;  the 
pper  part,  with  a  swan  neck,  which  is  sometimes  made  of 
'eivter,  is  called  the  head,  the  lower  the  body,  into  the 
eck  of  which  the  head  is  inserted.  The  worm,  which 

rental  agonies  were  sometimes  excruciating  and  intolerable; 
e  was  besides  to  all  social  purposes  insane.  Such  are  the  effects 
f  inordinate  drinking!  Liquor  is  a  seductive  companion,  and 
ncroaches  upon  us  by  almost  imperceptible  degrees ;  every  one 
ught  to  be  aware  of  its  insidiousness  : 

Nemo  vepente  fuit  turpissimus  ! 

*  Anacreon,  as  well  as  some  other  poets  who  have  been  some- 
imes 

“  Rapt  in  the  pleasing  joys  of  wine,” 

as  not  always  written  so  modestly  concerning  it :  the  “jolly  god” 
nd  “  wine”"  are  in  this  poet’s  writings  somewhat  too  often  and 
)o  rapturously  invoked  :  Wine  is  a  good  servant  but  a  bad 
raster. 


406 


DISTILLATION. 


consists  of  pewter,  is  placed  in  a  tub  filled  with  cold  water, 
(in  the  drawing  a  part  of  the  tub  is  removed  to  show  the 
worm,)  to  condense  the  hot  steam  of  the  still  as  it  comes 
over  and  passes  off  condensed  through  the  worm.  Under 
the  still  is  a  furnace  in  which  the  fire  to  boil  it  is  kindled. 


A  is  the  upper  part  of  the  worm  ;  B  the  lower  end,  out  of  which  the 
distilled  liquor  passes  into  a  proper  receiver. 


When  you  wish  to  distil  any  thing,  suppose  merely  a  little 
rose  water ,  you  have  only  to  put  a  certain  quantity  of  fresh 
gathered  or  salted  roses  into  the  still  (see  forwards)  and 
water  sufficient  to  fill  it  about  three  parts  or  more  full ; 
then  put  on  the  head,  but  do  not  immediately  lute  it, 
because  it  will  be  necessary  just  before  the  still  boils  to  stir 
the  ingredients  well,  once  or  more,  lest  they  should  stick  to 
the  bottom  of  the  still  and  burn.  The  fire  being  kindled, 
and  your  still  being  about  to  boil,  adjust  the  head  to  the 
worm  and  to  the  still  itself,  and  then  make  a  paste  with 
coarse  flour  and  water,  and  lay  it  on  strips  of  brown  paper, 
about  an  inch  or  more  wfide,  and  press  the  paper  closely 
over  the  joint  formed  by  the  union  of  the  head  and  body 
of  the  still,  so  that  the  two  may  become  for  the  purposes 
of  distillation  as  one  vessel ;  this  is  called  luting.  As  the 
heat  increases,  keep  your  hand  grasped  around  the  neck 
of  the  head  just  before  it  enters  the  worm,  (at  which  joint 


DISTILLATION.  407 

some  moistened  bladder  skin  must  be  tied  to  constitute  that 
jpait  of  the  tube  also  air-tight,)  and,  when  it  becomes  so 
hot  as  to  be  nearly  if  not  quite  unbearable,  it  is  a  proof 
that  the  process  of  distillation  has  begun ;  and  here  it  will 
be  most  advisable  to  lower  the  fire  by  opening-  the  furnace- 
door  for  a  few  minutes,  in  order  to  moderate  the  heat  at 
the  commencement :  for  if  a  considerable  heat  be  applied 
very  suddenly,  the  still  might  boil  over  and  the  whole  ope¬ 
ration  be  spoiled.  On  this  first  regulation  of  the  heat 
depends  generally  the  success  of  the  process ;  as,  after  the 
distillation  has  proceeded  for  some  time,  there  is  very  little 
danger  of  the  still’s  boiling  over.  The  liquid,  which 
usually  distils  in  a  small  stream,  may  be  received  in  any 
convenient  vessel.  A  very  little  experience  will  soon  render 
the  operator  expert  in  conducting  this  simple  and,  we  must 
add,  very  valuable  and  useful  process. 

Stills  are  usually  made  of  copper.  That  of  which  we 
have  given  a  drawing  is  set  in  brick-work,  and  the  smoke 
makes  its  exit  behind  the  still  into  a  chimney,  which  is  not 
shown  in  the  above  engraving.  Smaller  stills  are,  how¬ 
ever,  often  moveable.  They  are  made  of  various  sizes; 
some  in  large  distilleries  w-ill  hold  many  thousand  gallons ; 
one  which  will  hold  half  a  dozen  gallons  or  even  less  will 
generally  be  sufficient  for  a  private  family;  but  the  worm 
to  condense  the  distilled  water ,  spirit,  &c.  is  indispensable. 
Copper  stills  are  employed  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  for  the 
distillation  of  spirits,  aromatic  waters,  and  essential  oils. 
When  acids  are  employed  in  distillation,  glass  retorts 
placed  in  a  sand  heat  or  over  a  lamp  are  used. 

There  is  one  other  mode  of  distillation,  called  Balneum 
Maria:,  or  water-bath ;  it  consists  of  a  copper  cylinder, 
which  can  be  put  into  the  still,  and  which  descends  to 
within  a  few  inches  of  the  bottom  of  it ;  the  head  of  the 
still  is  adapted  to  the  cylinder ;  the  still  is  half  or  more 
filled  with  water,  and  the  material  to  be  distilled  is  put  into 
the  cylinder  apart  from  the  water  in  the  still ;  and  thus  the 
residue  of  the  distillation  may  be  preserved.  It  is  not  often 
employed  in  domestic  economy,  but  in  the  preparations  of 
some  extracts  in  Pharmacy  it  is  of  great  use.  See  for- 
ijwards,  under  Liqueurs  distill^es. 

By  the  simple  process  which  we  have  just  described, 


408 


DISTILLED  SPIRITS. 


may  not  only  the  aromatic  principles  of  plants  be  obtained, 
such  as  that  of  the  rose ,  elder  flowers,  orange  flowers, 
and  numerous  others,  but  also  the  waters  and  essential 
oils  from  peppermint,  pennyroyal,  lavender,  rosemary, 
&c.  &c. 

There  is,  however,  another  process  of  distillation,  called 
Rectification  ;  it  consists  in  distilling  again  with  pot¬ 
ash,  or  other  alkaline  salt,  to  arrest  the  gross  oleous  parts 
of  the  malt  or  other  spirit,  which  has  been  obtained  from 
malt,  wines,  cyder,  &c.  and  thus  they  are  rendered  at 
once  purer  and  stronger. 

In  the  wine  countries  Brandy  is  thus  obtained;  it  is, 
when  distilled,  colourless ;  the  colour  being  added  to  it 
afterwards.  In  the  West  Indies  Rum  is  produced  first  by 
the  fermentation  of  sugar  with  water  and  afterwards  dis¬ 
tilled  ;  and  in  this  country  malt  or  sugar  is  fermented  with 
water  to  produce  the  spirit  or  alcohol  in  a  similar  way 
to  that  directed  for  malt  under  brewing,  but  without  hops. 
When  this  spirit  is  flavoured  with  oil  of  turpentine  and 
sometimes  angelica  root,  it  is  called  Gin.  In  Holland  the 
gin  is  said  to  be  flavoured  with  juniper  berries. 

In  Distilled  Spirits,  whether  it  be  called  Brandy, 
Rum,  Gin,  or  Whiskey,  the  spirit,  or  alcohol,  is  in  all 
the  same ;  their  difference  consists  either  in  their  strength, 
or  more  usually  in  the  flavouring  materials  contained  in 
the  wane,  &c.  previous  to  their  distillation,  or  in  the  addi¬ 
tion  of  some  article  or  articles  during  the  rectification. 
Bu  andy  contains  either  a  resin  or  essential  oil,  which  it 
does  not  appear  possible  to  imitate  ;  and  which,  as  a  medi¬ 
cine,  is  often  peculiarly  grateful  to  the  stomach.  Rum 
holds  in  solution  a  portion  of  the  essential  oil  of  the  sugar, 
by  which  it  is  peculiarly  distinguished,  and  is  not  so  well 
suited  to  the  stomach  as  brandy.  Gin,  as  we  have  seen, 
page  387,  is  a  valuable  diuretic,  and  holds  some  turpen¬ 
tine  and  other  matters  in  solution.  Whiskey,  and  the  Gin 
of  Holland,  though  strong,  are  flavoured  peculiarly,  and 
are  not  so  well  adapted  to  the  stomach  and  constitution  as 
English  Gin. 

Excess  in  drinking  spirits  of  any  kind,  and 
especially  those  which  are  not  diluted  with  a  considerable 
portion  of  water,  cannot  be  too  much  deprecated.  See  what 


SPIRITS. 


409 

i3  said,  page  404,  concerning  Excess  in  drinking  Wine  ; 
the  miseries  produced  by  all  such  excesses  are  very  similar, 
and,  therefore,  need  not  be  here  again  described.  Indeed  the 
evils  resulting  from  drunkenness  are  so  many,  both  moral 
and  natural,  that  many  persons  have  been  desirous  of  pro¬ 
hibiting  the  use  of  ardent  spirits  altogether ;  but,  if  the 
great  and  terrible  punishments  which  will  assuredly,  sooner 
or  later,  visit  the  drunkard,  do  not  deter  him  from  his 
course,  we  fear  that  no  law,  however  penal,  will  do  it.  The 
remedy  must  be  sought,  among  the  lower  classes  in  parti¬ 
cular,  by  directing  the  mind  to  purer  and  more  tranquil 
channels  of  amusement  than  are  found  in  the  beer  or  the 
gin-shop — to  the  improvement  of  the  intellectual  man, 
and  in  adding  to  the  comforts  of  his  home.  Hence 
reading  and  the  Mechanics'  Institutions  are  of  great  im¬ 
portance  in  this  desirable  change. 

The  proportion,  per  cent.,  of  spirit,  according  to  Mr. 
Braude’s  table  is,  in  Brandy ,  53.39;  in  Rum ,  53.68; 
in  Gin ,  51.60;*  in  Scotch  Whiskey ,  54.32;  in  Irish 
Whiskey,  53.90.  So  that  we  see  Scotch  Whiskey  is  the 
strongest  of  all.  What  is  called  rectified  spirit  of  wine 
contains  according  to  the  Phar.  Lond.  of  1788,  of  alcohol 
95  parts,  of  water  5  parts  in  100.  Proof  spirit,  according 
to  the  same  authority,  contains  of  alcohol  55  parts,  of 
water  45  parts  in  100.  See  page  189  note.  Proof  spirit 
is  usually  obtained  by  merely  mixing  rectified  spirit  of  wine 
with  water  in  the  proportions  here  set  down,  namely,  by 
taking  the  parts  for  ounces,  55  of  the  spirit  and  45  of  the 
water. 

These  being,  then,  the  processes  and  products  of  spirituous 
distillation,  if  we  should  be  desirous  of  obtaining  the  spirit 
from  any  wine,  cyder,  or  even  malt  liquor,  we  have  nothing- 
more  to  do  than  to  fill  the  still  three-fourths  or  more  full 
with  the  liquor,  and  to  distil  it  as  we  have  directed,  till  the 
fluid  which  distils  tastes  no  more  of  spirit.  If  we  desire  its 
rectification,  wre  must  mix  a  suitable  portion  of  dried  or 

*  This  must  be  understood  of  the  very  best  gin.  The  gin 
usually  obtained  in  the  shops  is  much  weaker  than  this  ;  we  doubt 
whether,  when  submitted  to  the  test  of  the  hydrometer,  most  of  the 
gin  drunk  by  the  common  people  in  the  metropolis  contains  much 
more  than  thirty  per  cent,  of  spirit,  if  so  much. 

T 


410 


DISTILLED  WATERS. 


caustic  potash  with  the  distilled  spirit,  and  distil  it  again, 
taking  more  especial  care  in  this  second  distillation  that  the 
heat  be  moderate,  and  that  sufficient  water  remain  in  the 
still  to  prevent  its  burning.  In  all  these  distillations  it  must 
not  be  forgotten  that  spirit  is  a  highly  combustible  material. 

Having  thus  given  general  directions  for  distillation,  we 
proceed  to  add  a  few  forms,  premising  that  waters  distilled, 
from  green  vegetables  will  not  keep  so  well  as  those  which 
are  distilled  from  dry,  such  as  peppermint  for  instance; 
although  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  green  plant  possesses 
more  virtues  than  the  dry.  This  is  so  well  known  by  the 
distillers  of  oil  of  peppermint  in  this  country,  that  it  is 
always  obtained  from  it  in  the  large  way  in  a  green  state. 

ESSENCE  OF  PEPPERMINT.  Take  of  oil  of  pep¬ 
permint  one  ounce,  of  rectified  spirit  of  wine  four  ounces ; 
mix  them. 

Note ,  that  this  is  a  useful  form  for  making  peppermint 
water  without  the  trouble  of  distillation.  Two  drachms  of 
which,  by  measure,  poured  upon  half  an  ounce  of  lump 
sugar,  rubbed  a  little  together  and  then  dissolved  in  a  pint 
of  water,  will  be  found  superior  to  most  of  the  peppermint- 
water  of  the  shops. 


PEPPERMINT- WATER.  Take  of  dried  *  pepper¬ 

mint  a  pound  and  a  half ;  or  of  oil  of  peppermint,  by  weight  , 
three  drachms.  Put  sufficient  water  into  the  still  to  pre¬ 
vent  burning,  and  employ  either  the  oil  or  the  dry  herb,  and 
distil  one  gallon.  1 

Note,  that  these  are  the  directions  for  peppermint-water 
in  the  Phar.  Lond.  of  1824;  but  see  above  Essence  of 
Peppermint. 

SPEARMINT  WATER  is  made  in  a  similar  way  to 


*  If  green  peppermint  be  used,  it  should  be  in  double  the  quan¬ 
tity.  Dried  peppermint  and  other  dried  herbs  are  not  considered 
fit  for  use  if  more  than  one  year  old.  Peppermint,  mentha  ■piperita, 
is  a  perennial  indigenous  plant,  growing  in  moist  places  and  flow¬ 
ering  in  August  and  September.  It  is  cultivated  largely  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  London,  and  is  found  in  most  gardens.  There 
are  three  varieties.  Cultivators  say  that  the  root  must  be  trans¬ 
planted  every  three  years,  or  it  will  degenerate.  Its  taste  is 
pungent  and  penetrating ;  all  its  virtues,  or  nearly  so,  appear  to 
reside  in  its  essential  oil.  It  is  considered  by  almost  every  one  an 
excellent  stimulating  carminative. 


J 


DISTILLED  WATERS.  411 

that  directed  for  peppermint-water,  either  with  the  herb  or 
with  the  oil.  A  water  may  be  also  made  in  the  same  way 
as  directed  under  Essence  of  Peppermint,  with  oil  of  spear¬ 
mint  dissolved  in  rectified  spirits  of  wine. 

PENNYROYAL- WATER  is  made  in  the  same  way 
as  the  preceding-,  either  with  the  herb,  with  the  oil,  or  the 
oil  made  into  an  essence,  as  directed  under  Essence  of 
Peppermint. 

CINNAMON-WATER  is  made  either  by  macerating- 
one  pound  of  bruised  cinnamon  in  water  for  twenty-four 
hours,  and  then  adding-  sufficient  water  to  the  still  to  pre¬ 
vent  burning,  and  distilling  a  gallon  ;  or  by  adding  five 
scruples  of  the  oil  of  cinnamon  instead  of  the  bruised 
cinnamon,  and  distilling  off  a  gallon  from  a  proper  quantity 
of  water ;  or  the  same  quantity  of  Cassia  buds  bruised 
may  be  employed  instead  of  cinnamon.  See  page  188. 

Note,  a  cinnamon-water  may  be  made  by  dissolving  the 
oil  in  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  rubbing  it  with  sugar  as  di¬ 
rected  for  Peppermint- Water,  under  Essence  or  Pep¬ 
permint,  and  then  mixing  the  solution  with  a  proper 
quantity  of  water.  Note  also  that  oil  of  Cassia  is  usually 
sold  for  oil  of  cinnamon ;  there  is  some  difference  in  their 
smells;  but  they  are  essentially  the  same. 

In  a  similar  way  may  be  made  a  Water  from  Dill- 
seed,  Caraway-seed,  Fennel-seed,  and  Allspice; 

Sin  each  case  the  seeds  must  be  bruised.  A  pound  of  each 
is  the  proportion  for  a  gallon  of  water. 

ROSE-WATER.  Take  of  the  fresh  petals  of  the  hun¬ 
dred-leaved  or  cabbage-rose,  eight  pounds ;  pour  on  them 
:in  the  still  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  distil  off 
a  gallon. 

Note,  that  this  form  is  from  the  Phar.  Lond. ;  but  six 
pounds  of  roses  are  more  commonly  the  quantity  employed. 
And  note  also,  that  although  the  petals  only  are  directed  to 
be  used,  few  persons  who  distil  roses  in  the  large  way  take 
the  trouble  to  separate  them  from  the  calyxes  and  the  seeds. 
It  should  be  observed  also,  that  if  towards  the  end  of  the 
aperation,  or,  indeed,  after  the  gallon  of  water  be  distilled, 
the  heat  be  augmented  under  the  still,  a  portion  of  oil,  of 
the  consistence  of  butter,  will  come  over,  and  may  be  pre¬ 
served  as  a  sort  of  attar  of  roses  ;  or  be  mixed  with  some 

t  2 


412 


SPIRITUOUS  DISTILLED  WATERS. 


liquid  oil  so  as  to  become  a  fluid,  and  thus  be  employed  as 
a  scent. 

It  is  somewhat  remarkable,  but  is  nevertheless  a  fact, 
that  the  best  rose-water  is  distilled  from  salted  roses. 
They  are  salted  thus  :  to  every  three  pounds  of  roses  add  one 
pound  of  common  salt ;  beat  the  salt  and  roses  together  into 
a  sort  of  pulp,  and  keep  them  in  a  stone  jar  closely  covered 
from  the  air.  Thus  preserved  they  will  keep  in  a  cool  place 
for  years.  The  same  weight  of  salted  roses  is  necessary  as 
of  the  fresh  petals  for  each  gallon  of  water,  allowing-,  besides, 
one  pound  in  every  four  for  the  salt.  It  should  be  also 
noted  that  the  Phar.  Lond.  orders  Jive  ounces,  by  mea¬ 
sure,  of  proof  spirit,  to  be  added  to  each  gallon  of  all 
distilled  waters,  in  order  to  preserve  them. 

DISTILLED  WATER.  When  water  is  wanted  ex¬ 
traordinarily  pure,  it  is  ordered  to  be  distilled  thus: — put 
ten  gallons  of  water  into  a  still,  (which,  as  well  as  the 
worm,  must  be  made  thoroughly  clean  ;  the  worm  by  being 
filled  with  boiling  water,  and  suffered  to  remain  a  short  time 
in  it,  and  then  forced  out  by  blowing  strongly  at  its  upper 
orifice,)  and  let  the  first  four  pints  which  come  over  be 
thrown  away,  the  next  four  gallons  must  be  kept  in  a  glass 
or  stone  bottle. 

SPIRITUOUS  DISTILLED  WATERS.  Spirit  is 
employed  when  it  is  desirable  that  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  oleous  and  aromatic,  as  well  as  some  other  properties  of 
vegetables,  should  be  dissolved  in  the  compound.  Such  is 
lavender  water,  &c.  But  here,  as  well  as  in  some  of  the 
preceding  forms,  the  essential  oil  (see  page  201)  of  many 
plants  will  be  found  to  make  a  superior  spirit  to  any  which 
can  be  distilled  from  the  vegetable  itself,  provided  it  be  first 
carefully  dissolved  in  rectified  spirit  of  wine. 

LAVENDER  WATER,  or  SPIRIT  OF  LAVENDER. 
The  Phar.  Lond.  thus  directs  this  to  be  made : — Take  of 
fresh  flowers  of  lavender,  two  pounds ;  of  rectified  spirit  of 
wine,  a  gallon;  water  sufficient  to  prevent  burning;  ma¬ 
cerate  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  distil  off  a  gallon  by 
a  gentle  heat. 

Or,  take  of  oil  of  lavender,  half  an  ounce  ;  of  oil  of  rose¬ 
mary,  one  scruple  ;  of  camphor,  one  scruple  ;  of  rectified 
spirits  of  wine,  two  pints;  of  water,  one  pint;  of  essence 


SPIRITUOUS  DISTILLED  WATERS.  413 

of  ambergris,  one  drachm.  Dissolve  the  oil  and  camphor 
in  the  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  then  add  the  essence  of  am¬ 
bergris,  and  lastly  the  water.  Should  it  not  be  fine,  a 
drachm  or  two  of  common  alum  rubbed  with  a  small  por¬ 
tion  of  the  water  in  a  glass  or  marble  mortar,  and  the  whole 
well  shaken  together,  will  cause  it  to  become  fine  in  a  few 
hours. 

COMPOUND  SPIRIT  OF  LAVENDER.  Take  of 

spirit  of  lavender,  three  pints;  of  spirit  of  rosemary, 
(see  below,)  one  pint ;  cinnamon  and  nutmegs  bruised,  of 
each  half  an  ounce  ;  red  sanders’  wood  chipped,  one  ounce  ; 
macerate  for  fourteen  days,  and  strain. 

Note,  that  if  this  is  desired  of  a  deep  red  colour,  it  should 
be  macerated  for  a  month  or  more. 

SPIRIT  OF  ROSEMARY,  or  HUNGARY  WATER, 
may  be  made  by  macerating  two  pounds  of  fresh  rosemary 
tops  in  a  gallon  of  proof  spirit,  with  wTater  sufficient  to  pre- 
■  vent  burning,  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  distilling  off 
a  gallon. 

Or,  by  dissolving  one  ounce  of  oil  of  rosemary  in  one 
gallon  of  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  then  adding  sufficient  wa¬ 
ter  to  prevent  burning,  and  distilling  off  a  gallon. 

Or,  take  of  oil  of  rosemary  one  ounce,  camphor  one 
drachm,  of  rectified  spirit  of  wine  three  pints,  of  water  one 
pint  and  a  half ;  dissolve  the  oil  and  camphor  first  in  the 
rectified  spirit  of  wane,  to  which  add  the  water.  Should 
the  mixture  not  be  fine,  add  a  little  alum  as  directed  for 
lavender  water  above  ;  but  if  the  spirit  is  designed  to  be 
taken  internally,  the  alum  should  be  omitted. 

OTHER  SPIRITUOUS  WATERS,  such  as  Pepper¬ 
mint,  Spearmint,  Pennyroyal,  Cinnamon,  Cara¬ 
way,  &c.  &c.  may  be  made  by  merely  dissolving  a  small 
portion  of  the  oil  of  each  in  rectified  spirit,  as  directed  for 
lavender  and  rosemary,  and  then  adding  sufficient  water  to 
constitute  it  a  strong  proof  spirit;  but  alum  should  not  be 
added  to  these  waters  as  they  are  designed  for  internal  use. 

Or,  the  oils  may  be  distilled  with  rectified  spirit,  as  di- 
j  rected  under  rosemary . 

For  other  Compound  Spirits,  such  as  from  Juniper- 
Berries,  Horse-Radish,  &c.  see  our  Family  Cyclo- 
poedia. 


414 


BRANDIES,  RATAFIAS. 

SPIRIT  OF  WINE  AND  CAMPHOR  is  made  by 
simply  dissolving  two  ounces  of  camphor  in  one  pint  of  rec¬ 
tified  spirit  of  wine. 

CHERRY  BRANDY.  Stone  black  morello  or  any 
other  cherries  you  choose,  and  bruise  the  stones  in  a  mor¬ 
tar.  To  every  pound  of  the  cherries,  put  a  pint  of  brandy, 
and  dig’est  them  and  the  stones  in  it  for  at  least  a  month, 
occasionally  shaking  or  stirring'  the  ingredients.  Pour  it 
off,  and  press  the  residue,  which,  when  strained,  must  be 
mixed  with  the  clear  brandy.  Bottle  it  for  use. 

LEMON  AND  ORANGE  BRANDY  is  made  by  di¬ 
gesting  the  outside  peels  of  the  respective  fruits,  grated  fine, 
in  brandy,  and  adding  the  juice  of  the  fruits  to  it.  If  you 
desire  your  brandy  to  taste  strongly,  you  must  employ  a 
large  number  of  lemons  or  oranges  to  every  gallon  of 
brandy. 

Note,  that  some  put  sugar  to  this  liqueur,  after  the  man¬ 
ner  of  the  French.  But  such  addition  will  certainly  render 
it  less  wholesome. 

RASPBERRY  BRANDY.  Stew  raspberries  till  they 
can  be  made  easily*  into  a  pulp.  Take  equal  parts  by  mea¬ 
sure  of  the  pulp  and  brandy.  Let  them  digest  for  a  month ; 
strain  the  liquor  off,  and  bottle  it. 

Note,  that  some  put  sugar  to  it,  but  it  is  not  necessary; 
the  more  sugar  you  put,  the  more  the  peculiar  taste  of  the 
raspberry  will  be  taken  away. 

BRANDIES  may  be  flavoured  with  OTHER  RIPE 
FRUITS  in  a  similar  manner. 

RATAFIA  OF  RASPBERRIES.  Take  two  gallons 
of  brandy,  four  of  the  juice  of  raspberries,  (which  you  may 
obtain  by  stew’ing  and  pressing  them,)  one  of  the  juice  of 
cherries,  (obtained  in  like  manner,)  and  four  pounds  of 
sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  in  the  juice  of  the 
fruits,  add  to  it  the  brandy,  and  set  by  the  mixture.  When 
it  has  become  clear,  pour  it  off,  filter  it,  and  bottle  it.* 
RATAFIA  OF  FOUR  FRUITS.  Take  thirty  pounds 
of  cherries,  fifteen  pounds  of  red  currants, f  eight  of  rasp- 

*  For  this  and  the  following  ratafias  we  are  indebted  to  the 
Cuisinier  Royal  of  M.  M.  Viard  et  Fouret. 

t  We  have  translated  groseilles,  which  we  find  in  the  original, 
red  currants,  presuming  that  the  red  currant  of  our  gardens  was  in- 


RATAFIAS. 


415 


J  berries,  and  six  of  black  currants.  Take  off  the  stems  of 
the  cherries,  and  express  the  juice  from  the  fruits  mixed 
together,  to  every  quart  of  which  add  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  brandy,  two  drachms  of  cloves,  and  one  of 

!mace.  When  the  liquor  has  remained  some  time,  and  is 
clear,  you  must  pour  it  off  and  bottle  it. 

RATAFIA  OF  RED  CURRANTS.  Take  one  gallon 
of  brandy,  half  a  gallon  of  the  juice  of  red  currants,  two 
pounds  of  bruised  sugar,  one  drachm  each  of  bruised  cinna¬ 
mon  and  cloves.  The  currants  must  be  freed  from  their 
seeds  before  you  press  the  juice  from  them,  and  the  spices 
must  be  digested  in  the  brandy  for  a  few  days  before  you 
j  add  the  juice  to  it.  Let  the  whole,  being  mixed,  stand  to- 

(gether  for  a  month  ;  after  which  pour  off  the  liquor,  dis¬ 
solve  the  sugar  in  it,  and  filter. 

RATAFIA  OF  BLACK  CURRANTS.  Take  one  gal- 
Ion  and  a  half  of  brandy,  one  quart  of  river  water,  two 
1  pounds  of  black  currants,  two  pounds  of  bruised  sugar,  one 
pound  of  black  cherries,  six  ounces  of  black  currant  leaves, 
and  one  drachm  of  cinnamon  or  cloves.  Crush  the  fruits 
and  leaves  and  bruise  the  cinnamon ;  digest  the  whole  in 
the  brandy  for  a  month;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  ; 
pour  off  the  digested  liquor,  and  add  the  dissolved  sugar  to 
it;  filter  it,  and  put  it  into  bottles. 

RATAFIA  OF  MULBERRIES.  Take  two  gallons  of 
brandy,  one  of  river  ivater,  three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  three  pounds  of  mulberries,  half  a  pound  each  of  red 
currants  and  raspberries,  and  half  a  drachm  of  mace.  Having 
separated  the  seeds  from  the  currants,  mix  all  the  fruits  to¬ 
gether,  crush  them,  and  digest  the  juice  obtained  from  them 
in  the  brandy  for  fifteen  or  eighteen  days.  Then  dissolve 
the  sugar  in  the  water ;  pour  off  the  digested  brandy,  and 
mix  the  dissolved  sugar  with  it.  Filter  it,  and  bottle  it. 

RATAFIA  OF  PEACHES.  Take  two  gallons  of 
brandy,  one  gallon  of  the  juice  of  peaches,  and  four  pounds 
of  bruised  sugar.  The  peaches  must  be  at  once  thoroughly 

tended  to  be  employed.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  this  defect 
occurs  in  the  language  of  our  neighbours  :  we  shall  be  glad  to  see 
it  corrected.  The  primary  signification  of  groseille  is  gooseberry, 
as  every  one  knows  ;  why  not  adopt  our  own  word  currant  for  the 
!  smaller  and  very  different  fruit  ? 


41(3  NOYAU,  RATAFIAS. 

ripe  and  sound.  Having  taken  out  the  stones,  put  the 
peaches  into  a  linen  cloth  and  press  out  the  juice,  which 
mix  with  the  brandy,  and  set  it  by  for  six  weeks.  Then 
pour  off  the  mixture,  and  add  the  sugar  to  it.  Filter  the 
ratafia  and  bottle  it. 

RATAFIA  DE  NOYAUX,  or  NOYAU.  Take  one 
gallon  of  brandy,  two  pounds  of  bruised  sugar,  one  pint  of 
river  water,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  the  kernels  of 
apricots  or  peaches,  and  one  drachm  of  cinnamon  or  cloves. 
Care  must  be  taken  that  the  kernels  are  fresh,  and  that 
they  are  blanched.*  Bruise  them  in  a  marble  mortar  wfith 
the  spice,  and  let  them  digest  in  the  brandy  for  three  or 
four  months ;  then  strain  the  mixture  through  a  tammy, 
to  which  add  the  sugar  dissolved  in  the  water ;  filter. 

Note,  that  Noyau  is  more  frequently  made  in  this 
country  with  bitter  almonds,  and  either  colourless  brandy, 
Holland  gin,  whiskey,  or  common  English  gin.  In  what¬ 
ever  way  made,  we  consider  it  an  abomination.  Beware  of 
the  Prussic  Acid  !f  See  Almonds,  page  312. 

N.B. — Our  Gallican  neighbours  make  many  other 
Ratafias  ;  such  as  Ratafia  of  Juniper,  which  is 
flavoured  w'ith  juniper  berrries,  anise  and  coriander  seed, 
cloves  and  cinnamon  ;  Ratafia  of  Quinces  ;  Ratafia 
of  Angelica  ;  Ratafia  of  ripe  Muscadine  Grapes, 
&c. 

Note,  that  we  do  not  recommend  one  of  the  preceding 
forms  of  our  Gallican  neighbours  to  the  favourable  attention 
of  our  readers,  being  wTell  persuaded  that,  except  for  very 
robust  stomachs,  they  are  all  more  or  less  mischievous  com¬ 
pounds. 

Observe,  too,  that  we  have  followed  the  directions  in  the 
original  French  of  the  preceding  forms  by  translating  the 
verb  filtrer  to  filter.  But  in  English  to  filter  implies, 
almost  always,  a  more  effectually  clarifying  process  than  the 
French  filtrer  as  here  used;  the  word  strain  is  more  appro- 

*  Some  employ  these  kernels  without  blanching,  (see  Manuel  de 
Cuisinier,  page  310  ;)  and  we  fear  that  our  English  noyuux  are  too 
often  flavoured  with  unblanched  almonds. 

t  It  is  said  that  Duke  Charles,  of  Lorraine,  nearly  lost  his  life 
by  drinking  some  noyau  strongly  impregnated  with  peach  kernels 
Juurnul  de  Debats,  December ,  1814. 


417 


LIQUEURS  DISTILLEES. 


priate,  for  syrups  will  not  pass  through  filtering  paper, 
that  is,  the  paper  generally  known  as  blotting  paper.  All 
these  ratafias  assume  more  or  less  the  form  of  syrups. 

It  is  remarkable  in  regard  to  the  process  of  filtration 
that  water  does  not  readily  pass  through  filtering  paper;  but 
a  portion  of  salt  of  almost  any  kind  gives  it  the  disposition 
to  filter  immediately;  so  also  will  most  acids,  as  well  as 
spirit  of  wine  mixed  in  almost  any  proportion  with  water. 
Thus,  most  tinctures  made  with  either  proof  or  rectified 
spirit  readily  pass  the  filter;  yet  if  the  tincture  be  much 
charged  with  resinous  substances,  as  aloes,  benjamin,  &c. 

!its  property  of  filtering  is  greatly  diminished.  Hence  in 
this  as  in  some  other  cases,  as  well  as  the  ratafias  above,  a 
flannel  or  other  woollen  cloth  is  to  be  preferred  as  a  strainer. 

LIQUEURS  DISTILLEES,  &c.  We  reluctantly  give 
place  to  this  subsection  of  the  last  chapter  of  our  work. 
But,  as  we  hope  and  believe  that  the  principles  which  have, 
throughout  it,  been  developed,  and  the  practice  of  which 
has  been  also  zealously  enforced,  are  founded  on  the  firm 
basis  of  utility  and  truth,  we  have  not  much  fear  of 
their  just  application  when  the  merit  or  demerit  of  these 
liqueurs  are  determined,  by  those  who  shall  give  themselves 

!the  trouble  to  become  acquainted  with  what  we  have  pre¬ 
viously  advanced. 

CREME  DE  C&DRATS  BISTILLEE.  Infuse  the 
outside  peels  or  zests  of  four  very  fresh  fine  citrons  having 
a  good  perfume,  in  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  strong  brandy, 
to  which  add  a  quart  of  water,  in  a  jar  well  stopped  for 
many  da)  s.  Distil  from  the  liquor  by  a  water  bath  (see 
page  407)  one  gallon  of  spirit.  Dissolve  now  three  pounds 
and  a  half  of  sugar  in  seven  pints  of  water,  and  mix  the 
solution  with  the  spirit ;  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  or  filter 
it  through  paper.  (See  what  is  said  on  Filtration,  above. 

Note,  that  to  make  good  liqueurs  the  best  brandy  must 
be  chosen  ;  above  all  for  distillation.  That  from  Montpellier 
is  to  be  preferred  to  Cognac. 

In  distilling  any  of  these  liqueurs  the  first  portion  which 
comes  over  is  generally  an  insipid  phlegm  which  should  be 
thrown  away;  the  taste  will  inform  you  when  the  spiiit 
begins  to  distil.* 


* 


t  3 


Cuisinier  Royal,  page  524. 


418 


P ARFA1T  AMOUR,  USQUEBAUGH. 

PARFAIT  AMOUR — Perfect  Love.  The  citron  is 
the  basis  of  this  liqueur.  A  few  other  ingredients  and  its 
red  colour  distinguish  it  from  the  preceding.  You  must 
add,  therefore,  to  the  form  given  for  Crime  de  Ccdrats 
above,  half  an  ounce  of  fine  cinnamon,  four  ounces  of 
coriander  seeds,  both  bruised  and  digested  with  the  zest  of 
the  citrons  and  then  distilled  in  the  same  manner.  Dissolve 
next  three  pounds  of  sugar  in  three  quarts  of  water;  the 
red  colour  must  be  given  to  it  by  cochineal,  for  the  prepa¬ 
ration  of  which  see  below.  Filter  your  liquor  and  bottle  it. 

PREPARED  COCHINEAL.  Take  one  ounce  of 
cochineal  powdered  ver)T  fine ;  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  two  drachms  of  alum,  both  also  in  powder;  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  gallon  of  water;  when  it  boils 
remove  the  saucepan  from  the  fire  and  let  the  liquor  grow 
cold  and  clear.  Keep  the  sediment  for  use. 

Note,  that  it  is  stated  in  the  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  502, 
whence  this  form  is  taken,  that  it  supplies  the  place  of  both 
carmine  and  cochineal.  But  although  we  give  place  to  it 
here  we  do  not  approve  of  such  colouring  materials  in  our 
food;  see  what  is  said  in  page  290  concerning  saffron  and 

tUT77l€TlC, 

SCUBA  or  USQUEBAUGH.  (See  page  245.)  Take 
one  gallon  and  a  half  of  brandy  and  one  quart  of  water; 
infuse  one  ounce  of  saffron  in  three  pints  of  the  brandy 
in  order  that  its  colour  may  be  obtained ;  put  the  remaining 
brandy  into  a  jar  and  add  to  it  the  outside  peel  of  four 
lemons,  two  ounces  of  coriander  seeds,  two  drachms  of 
cinnamon,  one  drachm  of  mace,  twelve  cloves,  and  one 
ounce  of  bitter  almonds  all  pounded.  Let  them  infuse  for 
eight  days  when  your  distillation  may  be  made.  Before 
putting  the  fire  under  the  still  strain  the  tincture  of  saffron 
through  a  tammy  and  keep  it  for  mixture  after  the  distilla¬ 
tion.  Put  the  strained  saffron  to  the  rest  of  the  ingredients 
and  distil  from  a  water  bath  one  gallon  as  directed  under 
Creme  de  Cedrats.  As  this  liqueur  ought  to  be  more 
unctuous  than  other  liqueurs,  you  must  dissolve  four  pounds 
of  sugar  in  seven  pints  of  water,  which  mix  with  your  dis¬ 
tilled  spirit.  Mix  also  the  tincture  of  saffron  with  it  and 
strain  the  whole  through  a  flannel  bag.* 

*  Cuisinier  Royal,  page  528. 


419 


LIQUEURS  —  PUNCH. 

Note,  that  other  and  more  complicated  forms  are  some¬ 
times  given  for  usquebaugh.  One  may  be  seen  in  our 
Family  Cyclopaedia  which  need  not  be  here  described. 

And  note  also  that,  if  you  desire  your  usquebaugh  to  be 
:  colourless,  you  must  omit  the  saffron  altogether. 

LIQUEURS  DE  QUATRE  FRUITS  JAUNES.  Take 
a  gallon  and  a  half  of  brandy;  two  citrons;  four  lemons; 
two  bergamottes  and  four  fine  Portugal  oranges.  Let  all 
these  fruits  be  fresh  and  of  a  fine  smell;  pare  of  their  out¬ 
side  rind  as  fine  as  possible  without  touching  the  white 
j  beneath;  digest  the  zests  in  the  brandy  for  a  few  days,  to 
which  add  a  quart  of  water  and  distil  as  directed  under 
!  Creme  de  Cedrats.  Dissolve  three  pounds  and  a  half 
of  sugar  in  seven  pints  of  water;  mix  the  solution  with  the 
spirit  and  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag. 

CREME  DE  MOKA  is  made  with  a  gallon  and  a  half 
of  brandy  and  eight  ounces  of  Mocha  coffee,  roasted  and 
ground  as  for  ordinary  coffee.  The  coffee  must  be  digested 
in  the  brandy  during  eight  days  and  then  distilled  in  a  water 
bath  as  directed  under  Creme  de  Cedrats.  The  distilla¬ 
tion  must  be  slowly  and  cautiously  conducted,  or  the  coffee 
I.  will  come  over  and  spoil  the  operation.  The  same  quantity 
of  spirit  must  be  drawn  from  it  as  directed  under  Crane  de 
Cedrats  and  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  dissolved  in  the 
same  quantity  of  water. 

PUNCH.  Make  tea  more  or  less  strong,  more  or  less 
light,  strain  it,  sugar  it  while  hot  and  squeeze  into  it  the 
juice  of  two,  four,  or  half  a  dozen  lemons,  according-  to 
the  quantity  of  the  punch  you  desire  to  make;  when  the 
!  whole  is  made  boiling  hot  pour  into  it  a  dose  more  or  less 
strong  of  rum  or  any  other  pleasant  spirit,  or  wrine;  follow¬ 
ing-  also  the  taste  or  inclination  of  those  W'ho  desire  to  take 
1  it  boiling  or  moderately  hot.  It  is  useless,  when  we  put  only 
the  necessary  quantity  of  spirit,  to  burn  it;  which  process 
only  serves  to  lessen  both  its  goodness  and  its  strength.* 

Having  disposed  of  our  neighbour's  ratafias  and 
liqueurs,  we  now  proceed  to  some  of  our  domestic  mix¬ 
tures  of  a  similar  kind. 

PUNCH,  acccording  to  our  English  method,  is  made 
in  a  great  many  different  ways.  A  good  rule  is  to  take 
*  See  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  308. 


420 


SHRUB,  ORGEAT. 

equal  parts,  by  measure,  of  rum,  brandy,  or  other  spirit, 
the  juice  of  lemons,  and  boiling  water ;  to  which  must  be 
added  sugar  sufficient  to  impart  a  pleasant  sweetness  ;  and 
to  which  should  be  also  added  sufficient  of  the  outside  peel 
of  the  lemon,  so  as  to  flavour  the  punch  agreeably. 

Note,  that  the  best  method  of  mixing  the  above  ingre¬ 
dients  is  to  rub  off  the  outside  peel  of  the  lemons  with 
lumps  of  the  sugar  first,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  water 
on  it,  to  which  should  be  added  the  lemon  juice  ;  this  solu¬ 
tion  constitutes  what  is  usually  called  Sherbet  ;  the  spirit 
should  be  added  last.  Or,  the  outside  peel  may  be  grated 
and  digested  in  the  spirit  for  two  or  three  days  previously 
to  making  the  punch,  which  is  the  most  elegant  way. 
Note  also  that  some  employ  equal  quantities  of  rum  and 
brandy;  and  some  strain  the  lemon  juice;  but  many  per¬ 
sons  prefer  it  unstrained.  We  do  not  agree  with  one  of  our 
contemporaries  that  “  two  good  lemons  are  enough  to  make 
four  quarts  of  punch.”  The  fault  of  most  punch  is  its 
deficiency  of  the  acid.  Punch  is  in  its  best  state  when 
drunk  moderately  hot,  and  soon  after  it  is  made.  How 
pleasant  soever  this  liquor  may  be,  we  cannot  recommend  it 
at  any  time  to  the  dyspeptic. 

The  French,  see  above,  make  a  tea  instead  of  water  to 
be  mixed  with  the  punch ;  tea  is  sometimes,  but  not  com¬ 
monly,  employed  for  the  same  purpose  in  this  country. 

SHRUB  is  made  in  various  ways;  it  consists  of  lemon 
or  Seville  orange  juice,  sugar,  and  rum  or  brandy.  The 
peels  of  the  lemons  or  oranges  should  be  first  digested  in 
the  rum  or  brandy  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  the  sugar  and 
juice  be  added  to  it.  When  fine,  it  may  be  bottled.  In  this 
liquor  the  spirit  is  generally  in  much  larger  quantity  than 
the  acid.  It  is,  in  truth,  a  fanciful  liquor,  and  not  to  be 
commended.  A  shrub  is  sometimes  made  with  the  juice  of 
scalded  White  Currants,  pulped  through  a  sieve,  in  the 
proportion  of  one  part  juice,  two  of  rum,  and  one  of  sugar. 

ORGEAT  is  altogether  a  French  composition;  it  is  made 
in  various  ways,  but  consists  essentially  of  sweet  or  bitter 
and  sweet  almonds,  blanched  by  soaking  in  cold  water,  and 
then  beaten  into  a  paste  with  a  little  water,  and  afterwards 
diluted  with  more  water,  so  as  to  be  made  into  a  milk, 
which  must  be  strained,  (see  page  311)  and  mixed  with 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


421 


lump  sugar  dissolved  in  orange  flower  water  by  means  of 
a  water  bath.  When  it  is  cold,  it  should  be  bottled  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place,  so  as  to  constitute  a  sort  of  syrup  * 

Note,  that  when  orgeat  is  made  for  immediate  use,  milk 
is  sometimes  added  to  it ;  and  some  will  also  add  to  it  a 
small  quantity  of  brandy.  But  we  have  nothing  to  say  in 
favour  of  any  of  these  mixtures. 

COOL  TANKARD  is  made  in  many  ways.  Dr.  Ivit- 
chiner  recommends  a  quart  of  mild  ale,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  the  same  of  brandy,  and  of  capillaire,  (see  page 
321)  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  roll  of  the  peel  pared  thin, 
grated  nutmeg,  a  sprig  of  borage  or  balm,  and  a  bit  of 
toasted  bread.  Those  who  like  such  messes  are  welcome  to 
them ;  we  are  in  duty  bound  to  disapprove  of  them,  see 
(page  191. 

PURL  consists  of  sea  worm-wood,  gentian  root,  horse¬ 
radish,  orange  peel,  juniper  berries,  &c.  put  into  mild 
strong  beer,  in  the  month  of  November,  and  remaining 
digesting  in  it  till  the  spring,  when  it  will  be  fit  to  drink. 
Persons  who  are  fond  of  bitter  draughts  will,  perhaps,  like 
purl. 

MEDICINAL  COOKERY.  General  Observa¬ 
tions.  If,  in  the  last  section,  we  have  been  obliged  to 
depart,  in  deference  to  Fashion,  from  a  careful  scrutiny, 
and  even  from  a  rejection  of  many  articles  assuredly  injurious 
to  health  ;  it  is  become  peculiarly  necessary  that  we  should 
here  assume  a  more  rigid  censorship,  and  permit  nothing 
to  creep  in  that  may  operate  against  the  restoration  of  those 
who  unfortunately  labour  under  disease.  We  intreat,  there¬ 
fore,  that  the  cook  will  be  most  scrupulously  careful  in 
attending  to  the  directions  which  we  shall  here  give :  the 
sympathy  which  every  well  regulated  mind  feels  on  such 
occasions,  and  the  pleasure  of  contributing  to  the  relief 
of  pain,  furnish  the  best  stimuli  for  the  successful  exertions 
of  those  who  are  in  any  wray  attendant  upon  or  connected 
with  the  sick.  What,  in  fact,  can  be  a  greater  blessing  to 
a  sick  master  or  mistress  than  to  know  and  feel  that  they 
have  about  them  a  steady,  feeling,  and  intelligent  servant  ? 
Indeed,  it  has  been  often  said  that  a  good  nurse  is  some- 


*  Manuel  de  Cuisinier,  page  311. 


422 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


times  of  more  consequence  than  even  a  good  physician  :  for 
if  the  directions  given  by  the  physician  be  not  observed  by 
the  nurse  ;  if  the  many  things  which  are  necessary  for  the 
nurse  and  the  cook  to  do  be  not  attended  to,  or  be  done 
badly,  the  physician’s  skill  will  often  be  exerted  in  vain. 
We  might  enlarge  further  on  this  topic  here,  but  we  must 
forbear.* 

We  cannot  too  much  insist  upon  the  necessity  of 
cleanliness  in  the  preparation  of  all  food  for  the 
sick  ;  a  little  thing  will  often  produce  disgust  in  delicate 
stomachs. 

Nor  can  we  quit  these  introductory  observations  with¬ 
out  especially  calling  the  attention  of  the  cook  and 
the  nurse  to  the  very  great  responsibility  of  preparing 
food  for,  and  administering  medicines  to,  the  sick.  The 
doses  of  medicine  in  particular  should  be  most  carefully 
attended  to  ;  a  mistake  in  this  respect  may  be  of  the  most 
fatal  consequence.  That,  as  the  administration  of  medi¬ 
cine  is  at  all  times  attended  with  such  responsibility,  the 
giving  of  it  either  wantonly,  thoughtlessly,  or  carelessly, 
deserves  severe  animadversion  :  health  and  life  are  too  im¬ 
portant  to  be  placed  in  contact  with  ignorance,  carelessness, 
or  folly. 

Note,  that  similar  observations  to  these  have  been  stated 
in  our  Family  Cyclopaedia  again  and  again;  but  they 
can  scarcely  be  repeated  too  often. 

BEEF  TEA  is  directed  in  several  of  our  cookery  books 
to  be  made  by  simply  pouring  boiling  water  on  some  lean 
pieces  of  beef  cut  small,  and  after  standing  for  an  hour  or 
less,  the  clear  liquor  is  poured  off  from  the  meat,  and  the 
fat,  if  any,  separated  from  it. 

Note,  that  this  method  imparts  a  slight  dose  only  of  the 
nutritive  properties  of  beef  to  the  water ;  but  if  we  desire 
a  strong  medicinal  stimulant  it  must  be  made  thus : 

Boil  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces,  (the 
part  is  not  very  material,  that  from  the  neck  is  usually 

*  The  French  are  so  strongly  impressed  with  the  necessity  of 
attention  in  every  way  to  the  sick  that  there  has  been  lately 
published  at  Paris  a  work  by  M.  Morin,  the  author  of  the 
Manuel  d' Hygiene,  quoted  in  page  205,  and  elsewhere  in  our 
work,  entitled  Manuel  de  Gardes-Malades. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY.  423 

employed)  in  three  pints  of  water  till  it  is  reduced  to  about 
i  quart.  The  first  scum,  which  arises  during  the  boiling, 
must  be  taken  oft ;  but  if  it  be  skimmed  continually  during 
the  boiling,  a  considerable  portion  of  its  nutritive  properties 
will  be  removed.  When  the  boiling  is  complete,  strain  the 
whole  of  the  liquor  off,  and,  if  there  be  time  before  it  is 
wanted,  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold,  and  take  off  all  the  fat ; 
or  the  fat  must  be  removed  while  the  liquor  is  hot.  The 
directions  given  in  most  of  our  cookery  books  to  use  only 
the  clear  liquor  is  quite  a  mistake ;  the  best  and  most  nu¬ 
tritious  portion  of  it  is  the  fine  fibrin  which  settles  to  the 
bottom.  This  last  preparation  ought  to  be  called  Decoction 
of  Beef.  See  C route  au  Pot,  page  250. 

Note,  that  when  the  stomach  recoils  from  solid  animal 
ilfood,  a  strong  decoction  of  beef,  poured  boiling  hot  on 
some  toasted  bread,  cut  into  dice,  will  make,  if  offered  to 
the  patient  in  small  quantity  and  delicately  prepared,  a 
Ivariety  that  may  prove  very  acceptable,  care  being  taken 
that  it  is  seasoned  with  some  simple  condiment. 

Or,  a  strong  decoction  of  mutton  may  be  poured  upon 
toasted  bread  in  the  same  manner. 

MUTTON  BROTH,  for  the  sick,  should  be  made  in 
the  same  way  as  directed  for  beef  tea  above ;  it  may  be 
:  either  made  by  infusion  or  decoction,  accordingly  as  it  may 
be  wanted  weakly  or  strongly  impregnated  with  the  nu¬ 
tritive  properties  of  the  mutton.  It  is  usual  in  ordinary 
mutton  broth  to  flavour  it  with  turnips  ;  but,  for  the  sick, 
the  turnips  had  better  be  omitted ;  a  little  chopped  parsley 
is  admissible.  The  condiments  for  the  sick  should  be  few 
and  simple.  The  fat  of  the  broth  should  be  carefully  re¬ 
moved. 

VEAL  BROTH  should  be  made  exactly  as  mutton  broth. 
As  this  broth  is  not  so  stimulant  as  that  from  beef  or  mutton, 
it  suits  those  patients  who  are  gradually  returning  to  the  use 
1  of  animal  food. 

CHICKEN  BROTH.  As  a  chicken  supplies  animal 
aliment  of  the  least  nutritious  kind,  its  broth  is  sometimes 
useful  when  the  stomach  cannot  elaborate  more  stimulating 
food,  (see  page  9,  for  boiling  chicken,)  but  when  it  is 
boiled  for  broth  it  should  be  first  cut  up,  as  for  eating,  and 
then  boiled  half  an  hour  or  more,  in  order  that  most  of  its 


424 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY,  PAP. 

nutritive  properties  may  be  extracted.  In  preparing  it  for 
broth  it  may  be  singed  ;  but  it  should  not  be  dusted  with 
flour  ;  nor  need  it  lie  in  milk  and  water  as  directed  for  boiled 
chicken,  page  9.  The  broth  may  be  flavoured  with  parsley 
and  a  little  salt.  If  any  fat  float  on  it,  it  should  be  taken 
off. 

PORK  BROTH  and  PORK  JELLY  have  been  occa¬ 
sionally  recommended  for  the  sick  in  some  of  our  cookeiy 
books  ;  indeed,  some  of  the  Faculty  have  earnestly  advo¬ 
cated  Pork  Broth.  See  Maiuiyat’s  Therapeutics.  But! 
we  are  not  aware  that,  in  any  case,  either  of  these  de¬ 
serves  the  attention  of  the  sick  or  of  their  nurse.* 

STARCH.  We  mention  this  article  at  the  head  of  all 
our  Farinacea  for  the  sick,  persuaded  that  when  the 
prejudices  of  mankind  shall,  on  this  subject,  be  corrected, 
pure  starch  will  be  the  chief  thing  of  which  all  gruels  for 
the  sick  will  be  composed.  See  Starch,  page  199; 
Potatoe  Starch,  page  215;  and  also  forwards,  page  426. 

OAT  GRUEL,  or  Water  Gruel.  This  is  generally 
made  with  oatmeal ;  and  for  ordinary  purposes  sweet  oat¬ 
meal  answers  very  well.  But  where  gruel  is  desired  very 
delicate,  whole  groats,  first  carefully  washed  and  then 
bruised  by  the  rolling  pm,  should  be  employed.  Gruel 
should  always  be  strained  through  a  hair  sieve.  See  Oats, 
page  209.  The  addition  of  currants  (see  page  253)  to 
gruel  is  by  many  desired  ;  and  generally  will  not  be  found 
an  improper  addition  ;  but  sugar  is  not  so  good  a  condiment 
for  gruel  as  salt. 

PAP  FOR  CHILDREN.  Attend  to  what  is  said  con¬ 
cerning  pap  in  page  205;  and  also  to  what  is  said  con¬ 
cerning  Biscuits  in  page  299  and  300.  Tops  and  bot¬ 
toms  are  generally  used  for  pap  in  London  by  having  boiling 
water  poured  on  them,  beating  them  into  a  pulp,  and  gently 
boiling  it  for  a  short  time,  when  a  small  quantity  of  sugar 
is  usually  added  to  it.  Or  the  Somersetshire  biscuit,  de- 

*  There  is  much  truth  in  the  observation  of  M.  Morin  concern¬ 
ing  Pork : — 

“  Quoique  generalement  usitee,  il  ne  en  est  pas  moins  vrai 
qu’elle  ne  convient  pas  a  beaucoup  d’estomacs,  et  qu’il  faut  etre 
habitue  a  des  trauvaux  rudes  et  penibles  pour  le  digerer  convena- 
blement.” — Manuel  d’ Hygiene. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


425 

scribed  in  page  300,  may  be  employed.  Or,  in  the  absence 
of  both  these  articles,  slices  of  well-fermented  and  well- 
baked  bread  twenty-four  hours  old,  without  the  crust,  may 
be  well  toasted,  and  made  into  a  pap  in  a  similar  way  to 
that  made  with  tops  and  bottoms.  Or  Rusks,  which  are 
bread  cakes  cut  into  slices,  and  again  baked  or  toasted,  may 
be  employed.  Or  pure  Starch  may  be  also  sometimes 
usefully  employed  for  the  pap  of  children  ;  but  it  should 
be  made  thick. 

Note,  that  Flour  for  pap  is  bad,  and  must  be  invariably 
avoided. 

BARLEY  WATER.  Take  of  pearl  barley  two  ounces, 
of  water  four  pints  and  a  half.  Wash  away  first  from  the 
barley  all  foreign  matters  which  adhere  to  it  with  cold  wa¬ 
ter.  Then  boil  the  barley  in  half  a  pint  of  the  water  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  let  the  water  be  thrown  away.  Add  the 
remainder  of  the  water  boiling  to  the  barley,  and  boil  it 
down  to  two  pints,  and  strain.  Phar.  Lond.  See  below, 
Barley  Gruel. 

Note,  that  it  sometimes  happens  sick  persons,  as  well 
for  variety  as  for  nutrition,  require  barley  water  considerably 
thicker  than  the  above  quantity  will  make  it.  In  this  case, 
the  quantity  of  barley  should  be  considerably  increased, 
when  the  liquor  is  more  fitly  named  Barley  Gruel. 

BARLEY  GRUEL  may  be,  however,  made  in  a  much 
more  expeditious  way  by  simply  dissolving  prepared  barley 
(see  page  208)  in  boiling  water.  Indeed  some  persons  pre¬ 
pare  barley  water  by  merely  boiling  a  little  prepared  barley 
in  water.  In  this  case  all  the  saccharine  matter  of  the 
barley  is  combined  with  the  water  ;  in  the  process  directed 
by  the  London  College  above,  some  of  the  sugar  is,  of 
:ourse,  if  not  all,  abstracted.  See  Barley,  page  208. 

POTATOE  STARCH.  The  method  of  obtaining  this 
irticle  is  described  in  page  215.  It  may  be  used  instead  of 
irrow  root,  and  in  precisely  the  same  way.  It  forms  with 
water  a  wholesome  mucilage,  and  is,  on  many  occasions, 
i  pleasant  variety  for  the  sick.  It  may  be  flavoured  with 
spice,  brandy,  or  wine,  if  either  of  these  be  admissible. 

SALEP  or  Saloop  is  the  root  of  the  orchis  morio,  a 

)lant  native  of  Turkev  and  other  Eastern  countries.  It  is  in 
•> 

;l)val  pieces  of  a  yellowish  white  colour,  and  somewhat  clear 


426 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


and  pellucid.  When  reduced  to  poivcler,  which  it  is  with 
difficulty,  it  readily  dissolves  in  boiling  water,  with  which 
a  small  quantity  of  it  forms  a  nutricious  jelly.  It  consists 
chiefly  of  starch.  It  is  said  that  salep  may  be  prepared 
from  many  other  species  of  the  orchis  tribe.  This  root 
constitutes  a  considerable  portion  of  the  diet  of  the  inhabi¬ 
tant  of  Turkey,  Syria,  and  Persia.  Its  mucilaginous  qua¬ 
lities  render  it  desirable  in  many  diseases. 

ARROW  ROOT.  This  may  be  made  into  a  gruel  or 
jelly  more  or  less  thick  by  simply  boiling  it  in  water.  It 
may  be  flavoured  with  various  condiments  to  the  palate  of 
the  patient ;  but  it  should  be  generally  known  that  it  is  in 
no  respect  different  from  the  starch  obtained  from  many 
other  vegetables.*  See  Starch,  page  199. 

TAPIOCA  f  is  prepared  by  being  first  carefully  washed 
in  water,  and  boiled  in  that  fluid  till  all  the  lumps  become 
transparent ;  but  they  need  not  be  boiled  till  they  are  re¬ 
duced  to  a  uniform  jelly  unless  the  patient  should  desire  it. 
It  may  be  mixed  with  any  agreeable  condiment ;  wine,  or 
brandy,  when  admissible,  is  perhaps  the  best;  sugar  should 
be  employed  sparingly  if  at  all. 


*  ARROW  ROOT  is  obtained  chiefly  from  the  root  of  the 
maranta  arundinacea,  a  pei'ennial  plant,  growing  about  two  feet 
high,  with  broad-pointed  and  somewhat  hairy  leaves ;  it  is  now 
cultivated  in  both  the  Indies.  It  is  said,  Mag.  of  Nat.  Hist.  vol. 
v.  page  96,  that  the  farina  of  the  roots  of  various  plants  supply 
the  arrow  root  of  commerce  ;  that  at  Tahiti  and  other  of  the  Poly¬ 
nesian  Islands,  it  is  obtained  from  the  root  of  the  tacca  pinnatifida, 
called  pin  by  the  natives.  It  is  sometimes  mixed  by  the  mission¬ 
aries  at  Tahiti  with  wheat  flour  for  bread,  and  for  which  purpose 
it  is  said  to  be  excellent.  See  the  next  note  under  Tapioca. 

t  Tapioca  is  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  starch  reduced  by  some  pro¬ 
cess  to  a  sort  of  dried  gum  or  mucilage.  It  is  obtained  from  the 
roots  of  the  Cassava  or  Jatroplia  manihot,  a  South  American  shrub, 
about  three  feet  high,  with  broad,  shining,  somewhat  hand-shaped 
leaves,  and  beautiful  white  and  rose-coloured  flowers.  It  is  said 
that  every  part  of  this  plant,  when  raw,  is  poisonous,  but  that  its 
poisonous  quality  is  destroyed  by  heat.  Yet  the  starch  from  even 
poisonous  plants,  when  quite  separated  from  their  other  parts, 
does  not  partake  of  their  noxious  qualities.  The  root  of  the  tacca 
pinnatifida,  mentioned  in  the  note  under  arrow  root,  has  acrid  pro¬ 
perties,  yet  the  arrow  root  obtained  from  it  does  not  partake  of 
them  ;  man,  like  the  bee,  “  From  poisonous  herbs  extracts  the 
healing  dew.” — Pope. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


427 


SAGO  *  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  tapioca  ;  but 
it  should  be  first  boiled  for  a  short  time  in  some  water  to 
Like  tapioca  it  need  not  be  boiled  till  it  becomes 


cleanse  it. 

a  uniform  jelly,  provided  the  lumps  are  somewhat  transpa¬ 
rent.  It  forms,  as  well  as  arrow  root  and  tapioca,  an  agree- 


ible  variety  of  aliment  for  the  sick  when  neither  solid  vege¬ 
table  nor  any  animal  food  is  admissible.  It  may  be  mixed 
with  any  pleasant  condiment,  wine  or  brandy,  when  ad- 
piissible,  sugar  sparingly.  Sometimes  perhaps  the  squeeze 
?f  a  lemon.  See  Sago  Pudding,  page  255. 

PANADA  is  literally  bread  immersed  in  boiling  water 
so  as  to  become  soft  and  pulpy;  or  which,  after  boiling  for 
a  few  minutes,  may  be  beaten  into  a  pulp.  There  is  no  end 
:o  the  fancy  in  preparing  such  a  simple  dish  as  this  ought 
o  be  for  the  sick.  Some,  we  find,  make  panada  by  first 
oiling  the  bread  (which  ought  to  he  twenty-four  hours  old 
it  least)  with  spices,  &c.  then  pressing  out  all  the  water, 
l  mixing  the  bread  with  milk,  butter,  and  sugar  to  the 
taste.  This  is,  in  fact,  a  sort  of  bread  pudding. 

Others  boil  ( preposterous  ! )  wine,  sugar,  nutmeg,  &c. 
with  crumbs  of  bread  till  they  are  reduced  to  a  pap. 

The  object  in  making  panada  ought  to  be  to  supply  as 
much  as  possible  bread  in  its  simplest  and  purest  form, 
and  to  render  it  most  suitable  to  the  stomach  by  some  sim¬ 
ple,  if  any,  condiment.  The  best  way  to  effectuate  this 
,vill  be  to  cut  the  crumb  of  bread  into  dice,  and  pour  boiling 
water  upon  it;  after  it  has  stood  a  few  minutes,  let  the 
water  be  strained  off,  and  the  crumb  pressed,  to  which  add 
boilina:  water  sufficient  to  make  it  of  tbe  desired  consistence 

O  #  , 

either  for  being  drunk,  or  for  being  eaten  with  a  3poon. 
A  squeeze  of  lemon  might  sometimes  he  preferred  in  it ; 
but  the  fewer  condiments  the  better. 

Note,  that  good  and  well-baked  and  fermented  biscuits, 
without  butter,  or  tops  and  bottoms  will  make  good  panada. 


*  Sngo,  as  mentioned  in  page  255,  is  a  granulated  substance 
obtained  from  the  pith  of  several  species  ot  palm  tree,  which  are 
cut  down  and  split  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  it.  Some  say  that 
it  is  obtained  chiefly,  but  this  is  questionable,  from  the  cycas  circi- 
talis,  or  broad-leaved  cycas,  a  kind  of  palm,  a  native  of  the  East 
Indies,  whence  most,  if  not  all,  of  the  sago  of  commerce  is  brought. 
See  Mag.  of  Nat.  Hist.  vol.  i.  page  165. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


428 

CAUDLE  is  nothing  more  than  some  kind  of  gruel, 
usually  of  oat-meal  or  groats,  mixed  with  spices,  wine,  &c. 

It  is  generally  considered  a  necessary  part  of  the  food  of  a 
lying-in  woman  ;  but  it  is  more  often,  we  believe,  consumed 
by  the  gossips,  who  like  to  sip  of  such  exhilarating  stimu¬ 
lants,  which  are  generally  made  more  agreeable  than  whole¬ 
some. 

TOAST  AND  WATER.  We  may  observe  here,  once  fr 
for  all,  that  many  persons  both  sick  and  well  have  a  great 
abhorrence  of  cold  water.  This,  for  the  most  part,  is  a  t:  1 
very  mistaken  prejudice.  For  the  quenching  of  thirst  in  ' 
almost  all  states  of  both  health  and  disease,  nothing  is  in 
general  so  beneficial  as  water.  The  only  care  necessary  to  U 
be  observed  in  drinking  it  is,  that  it  be  not  taken  very  cold,  ' 
particularly  when  the  body  is  very  hot.  We  have  known  1 
in  children  predisposed  to  ague,  a  fit  of  that  complaint  s 
brought  on  by  drinking  cold  water,  or  by  exposure  for  a 
short  time  to  a  cold  air.  In  this  case,  draughts  of  even- 
hot  water  may  be  advantageously  given.  If,  however,  you 
desire  to  remove  the  extreme  coldness  of  water,  a  slice  of 
well-toasted,  or  even  slightly  burnt  bread  plunged  into  the 
jug  containing  it  will  generally  make  the  water  sufficiently 
warm  to  be  drunk .  W e  have  no  other  faith  in  toast  and  water. 

If,  however,  the  jlavour  of  toasted  bread  in  the  water 
be  desired,  it  ought  to  be  put  into  the  water  for  two  or 
three  hours  before  it  is  rvanted.  And  here,  perhaps,  it 
will  be  most  advisable  to  pour  some  water  upon  the  toasted 
bread,  and  let  it  remain  on  it  a  few  minutes  to  abstract  the 
saline  particles  which  are  in  it  before  it  is  put  into  the 
water  which  is  to  be  drunk,  and  so  long  suffered  to  remain 
there. 

Note,  that  we  shall  say  something  concerning  the  purity 
of  water  in  the  Introduction. 

IMPERIAL  consists  of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in 
water,  flavoured  with  lemon-peel  and  its  juice.  The  water 
is  usually  poured  on  the  ingredients  boiling  hot,  covered 
closely,  and  when  cold  sweetened  with  lump  sugar.  The 
dose  of  the  cream  of  tartar  may  be  about  one  ounce  to  every 
gallon  of  water ;  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  at  your  plea¬ 
sure.  Some  will  add  to  them  rum ;  but  we  advise  nothing 
of  the  kind. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY.  429 

Note,  that  this  is  a  sort  of  namby  pamby  liquor,  of  very 
ittle  importance  any  way. 

POSSETS,  of  various  kinds,  are  described  in  most  of 
>ur  old  Cookery  Books ;  but  the  good  sense  of  the  present 
ige  has  nearly  discarded  them :  they  usually  consisted  of 
;ggs,  wine,  and  sugar,  with  other  condiments;  many  of 
hem  contained  milk  and  some  ale.  We  have  no  know- 
edge  of  any  one  of  them  that  has  been  medicinally  em¬ 
ployed  with  advantage,  except  treacle  posset;  and  this 
irose  from  a  case  of  a  young  lad  who  had  been  accidentally 
lalivated  by  wearing  a  mercurial  girdle  for  the  itch.  His 
nouth  was  in  such  a  horrible  state  of  ulceration  that  he 
:ould  take  nothing,  and  scarcely  articulate,  for  nearly  a 
nonth,  but  the  curd  formed  by  mixing  treacle  with  scalded 
inilk.  The  whey  formed  by  the  coagulation  of  the  milk  is 
iometimes  recommended  by  our  Lady  Bountifuls,  as  a  draught 
it  night  to  promote  perspiration  in  catarrhs,  &c. 

SACK  WHEY,  that  is,  a  whey  made  by  pouring  some 
rood  wine,  as  sherry  or  Madeira,  into  milk  made  scalding 
pot ;  the  curds  are  rejected,  and  the  whey  employed  as  the 
vhey  obtained  in  making  treacle  posset  for  a  draught  at 
light  to  promote  perspiration.  But  much  better  methods 
than  these  are  now  within  the  circle  of  medicinal  know- 
edge. 

MULLED  WINE. — Put  some  grated  nutmeg  or  cloves 
ind  sugar  to  any  good  wine,  such  as  port  or  sherry.  Set 
t  over  the  fire  in  a  closely  covered  saucepan,  and  let  it 
remain  there  till  it  boils,  and  for  a  few  minutes  afterwards, 
when  it  must  be  removed  from  the  fire.  It  may  be  served 
up  with  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Some  direct  the  yolks  of 
pggs  to  be  mixed  with  the  wine  ;  but  they  will  prove 
abominations ;  even  the  sugar  is  not  a  desirable  addition ; 
doves  are,  we  believe,  better  than  nutmeg. — See  Cloves, 
lage  187. 

CHAMOMILE  TEA.  Fill  a  teapot  with  chamomile 
flowers,  and  pour  boiling  water,  so  as  to  fill  the  pot,  over 
them.  Let  it  stand  for  an  hour  or  more. 

Note,  that  this  is  an  excellent  bitter  infusion  for  those 
with  whom  bitters  agree  and  whose  digestion  is  impaired ; 
some  will  add  a  few  cloves  to  it.  A  teacupful  may  be 
taken  twice  a  day. — See  under  Brewing,  page  389. 


430 


-•< 

MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 

LEMONADE  consists  of  lemon  juice,  water,  and  sugar; 
sometimes,  however,  where  the  acid  only  is  desirable,  the 
sugar  is  omitted ;  and  generally  where  lemonade  is  given  to  the 
sick  for  the  quenching  of  thirst  in  particular,  it  is  best  without 
the  sugar.  Lemonade  is  sometimes  made  with  the  crystal¬ 
lized  acid  of  lemon *  and  a  little  essence  of  lemon,  made 
by  digesting  the  outside  grated  peel  of  the  fresh  lemon  in 
rectified  spirit  of  wine,  in  the  proportion  of  two  ounces  ol 
the  peel  to  a  pint  of  the  spirit,  for  ten  days,  and  straining; 
or  by  dissolving  one  drachm  of  the  best  essence  of  lemon, 
which  can  be  obtained  in  the  shops,  in  two  ounces  of  recti¬ 
fied  spirit  of  wine.  Either  of  these  will  impart  the  flavour 
of  the  lemon  to  the  mixture ;  they  should  be  added  either 
to  simple  syrup  or  capillaire,  (see  pages  221  and  222,)  ani 
then  be  diluted  with  water,  according  to  the  pleasure  of  the 
patient,  adding  of  course  the  acid.  But  we  believe  that, 
notwithstanding1  we  here  describe  the  more  artificial  lemon- 
ades,  that  made  with  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  water, 
with  the  addition  sometimes  of  sugar,  is  by  far  the  best. 

One  ounce  of  lemon  juice  will  make,  with  five  ounces  of 
wrater,  an  agreeable  lemonade,  which,  when  taken  as  a 
summer  beverage,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar,  and 
one  ounce  by  measure  of  English  gin,  will  be  found  equal, 
if  not  superior,  to  most  of  the  cyder  to  be  obtained  in 
London,  more  especially  if  a  few  grains  of  carbonate  of 
potash  or  soda  be  added  to  it,  so  as  to  disengage  some 
carbonic  acid ;  but  the  alkali  ought  not  to  be  in  sufficient 
quantity  to  neutralize  all  the  acid  of  the  lemon,  or  the 
liquor  will  be  mawkish. 

Of  SODA  WATER,  (which  is  water  impregnated  with 
a  small  dose  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  a  large  dose  besides 
of  carbonic  acid,)  now  so  commonly  drunk  in  London  and 
elsewhere,  we  have  very  little  to  say  in  commendation. 

*  Crystallized  acid  of  lemon  is  directed  to  be  prepared  in  a  cer¬ 
tain  manner  by  the  London  College  of  Physicians  in  their  Phar. 
Lond.  But  it  is  not  a  process  which  the  cook  will  be  very  likely 
to  adopt.  Those  who  desire  more  information  concerning  it  may 
consult  the  work  referred  to,  or  our  Family  Cyclopaedia,  articles 
Citric  Acid  and  Lemon  Juice.  One  ounce  of  the  crystallized 
acid  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  water  is  considered  nearly  equal  to  the 
strength  of  the  acid  in  lemon  juice. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


431 


Dr.  Paris,  in  the  article  Dietetics  in  the  Cyclopcedia  of 
Practical  Medicine ,  says,  that  “  the  modem  custom  of 
kinking  soda  water  during,  or  immediately  after  dinner, 
aas  been  a  pregnant  source  of  dyspepsia.  By  inflating  the 
stomach  at  such  a  period  we  inevitably  counteract  those 
jnuscular  contractions  which  are  essential  to  chymification.” 

A  SALINE  DRAUGHT  may  be  made  at  any  time 
vith  a  few  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda,  or  of  carbonate  of 
potash,  (see  page  368,)  ten  or  fifteen  of  either,  half  an 
>unce  of  lemon  juice,  and  two  ounces  of  water.  It  may  be 
Irunk  during  the  effervescence,  and  will  be  found  a  cooling 
tnd  grateful  draught,  taken  occasionally,  where  there  is  a 
lisposition  to  dyspepsia,  but  it  should  not  be  taken  just 
•efore,  at,  or  soon  after,  any  meal.  See  a  note  under 
»ur  article  Baking  of  Bread,  page  368. 

I  For  Essence  of  Peppermint,  Peppermint  Water, 
aid  several  other  distilled  waters,  as  well  as  spirits, 
ee  our  section  on  Distillation. 

For  Essence  of  Ginger,  see  page  189. 

- Cayenne  Pepper,  seepage  189. 

—  Syrups,  see  pages  321,  322. 

—  Acetic  Acid,  for  fumigating  apartments,  see  page 

|36. 

—  Milk  of  Almonds,  see  page  311. 

—  Dry  Toast,  see  page  206. 

—  Spirit  of  Wine  and  Camphor,  see  page413. 

—  Croute  au  Pot,  see  page  250,  a  preparation  of 
ery  considerable  importance  to  persons  labouring  under 
arious  complaints  attended  with  dyspepsia. 

ROASTED  APPLES.  Apples  for  the  sick  are  some- 
imes  very  agreeable,  if  properly  prepared.  They  should 
lways  be  chosen  of  the  more  acid  kind,  and  good  boilers  ; 
he  russet  coat  is  one  of  the  best.  The  best  way  of  roasting 
hem  is  to  roll  them  up  in  some  soft  writing  or  other  paper, 
nd  set  them  on  the  hob  of  the  fire-place,  where  they  soon 
cquire,  being  occasionally  turned,  the  proper  degree  of 
oftness  :  the  pulp  may  be  easily  separated  wfith  a  spoon  ;  it 
5  very  useful  for  the  allaying  of  thirst.  Or  a  decoction  of 
he  apple  may  be  made  in  water ;  it  is  usually  called  apple 
'ea.  The  apples  should  be  pared,  cored,  and  quartered 


432 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


before  being  set  to  boil.  Here,  also,  acidulous  apples  should 
be  chosen. 

TOASTED  FIGS.  Cut  large  figs  into  strips  about 
half  an  inch  wide,  and  toast  the  inside  part  brown  before 
the  fire.  This  is  an  excellent  application  to  swelled  gums ; 
the  toasted  part  must  be  laid  upon  the  gum,  and  renewed 
from  time  to  time.  It  appears  to  act  similarly  to  a  digestive 
poultice.  It  frequently  gives  considerable  pain,  a  proof 
that  it  is  being  effectual. 

POULTICES  are  made  in  various  ways ;  for  a  Yeast 
Poultice,  see  under  Yeast,  page  375. 

A  POULTICE  OF  BREAD  AND  MILK  is  made 
by  simply  scalding-  crumb  of  bread  in  milk  sufficient  to 
make  a  soft  paste,  to  which  should  be  added,  to  keep  it 
supple,  a  little  olive  oil  or  lard. 

A  POULTICE  OF  LINSEED  MEAL  is  generally 
made  by  scalding  the  meal  in  water.  If  the  meal  be  made 
with  ground  linseed  no  oil  need  be  added  to  it ;  but  if  with 
powdered  linseed  oil  cake,  as  it  generally  is,  the  addition 
of  a  little  linseed  or  other  oil  is  desirable. 

A  BREAD  AND  WATER  POULTICE  requires  no 
directions  for  being  made,  after  what  is  said  concerning 
bread  and  milk  poultice. 

A  POULTICE  OF  BREAD  OR  LINSEED  MEAL, 
WITH  BEER  GROUNDS,  or  with  very  stale  or  even 
acid  strong  beer,  is  excellent  to  excite  the  action  and  pro¬ 
mote  the  production  of  pus  in  hard  and  indolent  swellings. 
It  is  made  by  scalding  the  bread  or  meal  in  the  beer-grounds 
or  beer.  A  little  oil  or  lard  may  be  added  to  the  poultice 
to  keep  it  supple. 

The  stimulating  Poultice  of  Vinegar,  with  bread  or 
linseed  meal,  and  a  little  oil  or  lard,  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  preceding.  A  Mustard  Poultice 
is  made  by  simply  scalding  flour  of  mustard  in  boiling 
water.  It  is  sometimes  an  excellent  application  where 
there  is  a  temporary  loss  of  feeling  in  the  extremities, 
such  as  the  hand,  fingers,  &c. 

AN  INFUSION  OF  LINSEED*  is  made  by  pouring 

*  Linseed  is  almost  too  well  known  to  need  being  described.  It  is  the 
seed  of  theLinum  usitatissimum  or  Flax,  an  annual  plan!  cultivated 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


433 


on  one  ounce  of  bruised  linseed  two  pints  of  boiling  water, 
and  macerating  it  for  four  hours  near  the  fire.  The  London 
College  orders,  in  addition,  half  an  ounce  of  bruised  liquor¬ 
ice  root.  The  mucilage  of  linseed  thus  abstracted,  or 
made  much  stronger  by  a  larger  addition  of  the  seed, 
is  a  useful  demulcent  in  some  complaints  of  the  urinary 
passages. 

I  A  MUCILAGE  OF  GUM  ARABIC  is  made  with 
four  ounces  of  bruised  gum  arabic  and  half  a  pint  of  boil- 

Sing  water,  gradually  added  to  and  rubbed  with  the  gum  till 
it  becomes  a  mucilage.  Pliar.  Land. 

Note ,  that,  in  order  to  constitute  a  mucilaginous  drink, 
one-fourth  of  the  quantity  of  gum  will  be  sufficient. 

A  MUCILAGE  OF  STARCH  is  made  by  mixing 
three  drachms  of  starch  rubbed  into  powder,  with  a  pint  of 
w'ater,  and  boiled  till  they  become  a  mucilage. 

Note,  that  both  the  preceding  mucilages  are  nutricious 
demulcents,  and  may  be  taken  at  pleasure. 

PURGATIVES,  called,  in  medical  language,  Cathar- 
;  tics,  are  of  various  kinds;  but  those  which  will  be  most 
likely  to  come  under  the  cognizance  of  the  cook  and  the 
nurse  are  the  following  : 

CASTOR  OIL  is  obtained  from  the  seeds  of  the 
t  ricinis  communis,  an  annual  plant,  native  of  both  the 

j  Indies.  The  oil  is  obtained  by  bruising  and  then  boiling 
;  the  seeds  in  water ;  but  the  best  oil  is  that  which  is  ob¬ 
tained  by  expression  without  heat,  called  cold  drawn. 
Half  an  ounce  of  this  oil  is  a  dose ;  it  is  best  given  by 
being  poured  into  a  wine  glass  half  full  of  peppermint 
water,  so  that  the  oil  does  not  touch  the  sides,  and  thus  the 
whole  may  be  taken  at  a  draught.  Some  prefer  beating 
the  oil  up  with  sugar,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  little 
j  water  into  an  emulsion. 

EPSOM  SALTS,  or  Sulphate  of  Magnesia,  is  a 

in  various  parts  of  Great  Britain,  and  other  places  in  Europe. 
The  bark  of  flax  constitutes  the  important  material  of  our  cloth¬ 
ing,  which  when  made  into  cloth  we  call  linen.  The  seeds  afford 
a  very  valuable  oil  for  the  painter ;  and  a  nutricious  mucilage  as 
above ;  the  cakes  left  after  the  expression  of  the  oil  are  employed 
in  fattening  oxen.  Flax  is  now  found  growing  wild  in  many 
^places  of  this  country;  but  the  place  of  its  original  growth  is  not 
■  known ;  some  suppose  Egypt. 


434 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


ivell  known  purgative,  obtained  formerly  from  the  medi¬ 
cinal  water  at  Epsom,  but  now  from  the  water  left  after 
the  crystallization  of  common  salt  from  sea-water.  Its 
dose  for  a  purge  is  usually  one  ounce,  dissolved  in  two  or 
more  ounces  of  water,  or  in  gruel ;  but  it  is  sometimes 
given  in  doses  of  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  or  less,  and  con¬ 
tinued  daily,  or  every  other  day,  for  some  time,  where  con¬ 
tinued  relaxation  of  the  bowels  is  desirable.  This  salt  is  at 
present  a  much  more  fashionable  aperient  than 

GLAUBER’S  SALT,  or  Sulphate  of  Soda,  which 
is  the  purified  and  crystallized  salt  that  remains  after  the 
distillation  of  muriatic  acid.  Its  general  dose  is  also  one 
ounce  dissolved  in  water.  If  taken  in  a  dried  or  efflorescent 
state,  its  dose  should  be  one-half  that  of  the  crystallized  salt. 
See  Glauber’s  Salt,  in  the  Family  Cyclopaedia. 

COMPOUND  EXTRACT  OF  COLOCYNTH  PILLS. 
Take  of  compound  extract  of  colocynth  two  drachms; 
of  Castile  soap  in  powder  one  drachm ;  beat  them  together 
into  a  mass,  and  divide  it  into  thirty-six  pills,  of  which  one 
or  two  must  be  taken  occasionally  at  bed-time.  Note,  that 
these  will  be  found  excellent  aperient  pills  for  those  who  are 
troubled  with  costiveness  :  we  have  prescribed  them  upon 
innumerable  occasions. 

CALOMEL  PILLS.  It  sometimes  happens  from  pecu¬ 
liarity  of  constitution,  or  from  some  other  causes,  that  the 
above  pills  do  not  act  with  sufficient  energy.  In  such  case 
an  addition  of  one  grain  of  calomel  to  each  pill  (and  in 
this  case  one  pill  will  be  generally  enough  for  a  dose)  will 
obviate  the  inconvenience,  and  prove  in  other  respects  very 
beneficial.  They  must  thus  be  made:  take  of  compound 
extract  of  colocynth  two  drachms ;  of  Castile  soap  one 
drachm ;  of  calomel  thirty-six  grains ;  beat  the  whole  into 
a  mass,  and  divide  them  into  thirty-six  pills. 

It  may  possibly  be  deemed  invidious  to  select  particular 
druggists  for  the  preparation  of  both  the  preceding  forms  for 
pills ;  or  for  supplying  the  medicines  to  make  them  ;  but 
having  had  a  long  experience  of  the  compound  extract  of 
colocynth,  &c.  sold  by  Messrs.  Corbyn  &  Co.  of  Hol- 
born,  as  w7ell  as  by  Messrs.  James  Curtis  &  Co.  of  Old 
Fish-Street,  we  refer  the  reader  to  either  of  those  houses  to 
obtain  them. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


435 


Note,  that  calomel  being'  a  mercurial ,  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  body  is  not  exposed  to  great  changes  of  tem¬ 
perature,  and  particularly  to  cold  and  damp  during  the 
operation  of  these  pills. 

PURGATIVES  FOR  CHILDREN  may  be  either 
senna,  rhubarb,  or  magnesia.  Other  cathartics  than  these 
are,  it  is  true,  often  ordered  by  the  experienced  medical 


attendant,  among  these  jalap  and  calomel  are  sometimes 
given  with  advantage,  in  worm  cases  in  particular ;  but  the 
domestic  prescriber  would  do  well  not  to  meddle  with  such 
keen-edged  tools,  particularly  when  they  are  employed  on 
the  delicate  health  of  children. 

Senna  may  be  given  to  children  in  a  decoction  sweetened 
with  sugar ;  it  is  difficult  to  define  a  dose  of  this  to  suit 
every  age  ;  but,  to  a  child  a  year  old,  of  a  decoction  made 
with  one  drachm  of  senna  boiled  in  four  ounces  of  water 
down  to  two,  a  dessert-spoonful  may  be  given.  Sometimes 
a  few  raisins  boiled  in  it  will  tempt  the  child  to  take  it 
more  readily. 

Where  very  young  children  are  troubled  with  green  and 
loose  motions,  a  tea-spoonful  of  magnesia  mixed  with  milk 
and  a  little  sugar  may  be  advantageously  given.  And 
sometimes  a  mixture  of  ten  grains  of  rhubarb  and  as  many 
of  magnesia  made  by  pouring  a  little  boiling  water  on  them, 
and  sweetened  with  sugar,  will  have  a  very  good  effect  in 
correcting  the  unpleasant  condition  of  the  bowels  of 
children. 

And  sometimes  where  costiveness  is  the  chief  symptom, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  castor  oil  mixed  with  a  little  sugar  will 


remove  it. 

The  restlessness  and  irritability  of  children  will  be 
more  effectually  removed  by  such  simple  means  as  the 
preceding  than  by  opiates  of  any  kind ;  and  more  especially 
than  by  the  use  of  Godfrey's  Cordial  or  Dalby's  Car¬ 
minative. 

Warm  bathing  is,  particularly  in  a  hot  and  very  fe¬ 
verish  state  of  the  skin,  one  of  the  most  valuable  assistants 
in  promoting  comfortable  perspiration  and  to  allay  the  rest¬ 
lessness  of  children.  In  teething  in  particular,  in  addition 
to  opening  the  bowels,  it  is  of  great  importance. 

Of  BRANDY,  as  a  powerful  stimulant  when  employed 

u  2 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


436 

medicinally,  a  few  words  may  be  here  useful.  In  all  cases 
where  there  is  much  fever  and  a  strong  pulse,  brandy  is 
generally  a  mischievous  medicine  ;  but  in  cases  of  debility, 
and  where  the  pulse  is  weak  and  the  vital  powers  generally 
at  a  low  ebb,  brandy,  given  discreetly,  is  an  excellent 
medicine.  It  is  best  given  by  soaking  biscuits  or  tops  and 
bottoms  in  it;  the  biscuits  being  broken  into  pieces,  and 
the  patient  supplied  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  them  now  and 
then :  in  such  cases  it  must  of  course  be  given  often  to 
be  effectual ;  but  no  sugar  or  other  condiment  should  be 
given  with  it.  In  some  cases  of  vomiting,  where  no 
inflammation  is  present,  it  is  of  great  value. 

Of  LAUDANUM,  a  preparation  of  opium,*  as  a 
medicine  for  relieving  pain,  we  ought,  perhaps,  to  say  that 
in  moderate  doses,  that  is,  of  from  fifteen  to  thirty  drops 
at  most,  its  efficacy  is  sometimes  great.  But  the  habitual 
use  of  it  must,  by  all  means,  be  avoided.  It  stupifies  the 
mind,  renders  the  bowels  costive  and  inactive ;  and  if  the 
patient  becomes  a  sot  to  it,  he  is  a  blank  in  society,  and 
as  useless  as  a  drunkard. 

There  is  one  other  opiate  which  has  lately  come  into  use 
that  we  ought  also  to  mention ;  it  is  beyond  question  far 
superior  to  laudanum  in  relieving  many  distressing  spas¬ 
modic  affections ;  we  have  known  much  benefit  derived 
from  it  in  asthma ;  in  some  scirrhous  affections  attended 
with  much  pain,  it  has  rendered  the  patients  very  com¬ 
fortable,  and  obtained  for  them  sweet  repose.  This 
medicine  is  prepared  only  by  Mr.  Battley,  a  druggist 

*  Opium,  as  we  have  said,  (page  201,)  is  the  inspissated  milky 
juice  obtained  by  incisions  from  the  green  heads  of  the  single 
white  poppy,  papaver  somniferum ,  an  annual  plant  now  naturalized 
in  this  country,  but  originally  a  native  of,  it  is  believed,  Asia, 
where,  as  well  as  in  Turkey,  opium  is  produced  from  it  in  the 
greatest  abundance  and  perfection.  Most  of  the  opium  used  here 
is  imported  either  from  Turkey  or  the  East  Indies  ;  but  the  white 
poppy  has  been  lately  much  cultivated,  and  with  some  success, 
for  opium  in  this  country.  The  oil  from  the  seeds,  which  are 
similar  in  taste  to  nuts  and  very  nutritive,  is  used,  it  is  said,  in 
many  instances  instead  of  olive  oil.  Opium  is  a  very  useful  and 
powerful  medicine,  one  grain  of  which  in  its  crude  state  is 
considered  a  full  dose  ;  but  if  taken  in  larger  quantity,  it  is  often 
a  deadly  poison.  See  Poisons  forwards.  The  Turks,  never¬ 
theless,  chew  it!  Such  is  the  omnipotence  of  habit. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


437 


1 


in  Fore-street,  London;  he  calls  it  Liquor  opii  seda- 
tivus.  It  is  given  in  very  small  doses;  six  or  eight 
drops  of  it  will  often  have  the  desired  effect.  It  does  not, 
in  general,  constipate  the  bowels  like  other  opiates.  We 
affirm  that  it  is  the  best  medicine  for  the  alleviation  of  pain 
with  which  we  are  acquainted.  But  the  reader  must  not 
forget  that  it  is  a  very  powerful  one ;  and  that  it  must  be, 
therefore,  administered  with  extreme  caution.  It  may 
be  taken  in  water. 

LINIMENT  OF  AMMONIA,  called  formerly  Vola¬ 
tile  Liniment.  Take  of  solution  of  ammonia  one 
ounce ;  of  olive  oil*  two  ounces ;  shake  them  together  till 

*  Olive  oil  has  been  mentioned  in  pages  71  and  201.  The  olive 
whence  it  is  obtained  is  the  fruit  of  the  olca  Europcea,  or  European 
I  olive,  an  evergreen  tree,  with  leaves  like  the  willow,  native  of 
the  south  of  Europe  and  the  north  of  Africa  ;  but  it  is  cultivated 
abundantly  in  numerous  places  bordering  upon  the  Mediterranean. 
It  is  also  occasionally  grown  in  England,  but  its  fruit  does  not 
ripen  here.  It  grows  readily  by  cuttings,  or  may  be  grafted  on 
the  privet.  The  unripe  fruit  is  brought  to  this  country  pickled  in  a 
green  state,  and  by  some  is  esteemed  as  a  condiment ;  but  it  is  not  a 
very  wholesome  one.  There  are  several  varieties  of  the  olive. 
The  fruit  is  a  sort  of  plum,  of  an  oval  shape  and  of  a  violet  colour 
when  ripe,  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long  and  half  an  inch  in 
diameter;  whitish  and  fleshy  within,  of  a  bitter  taste,  but  containing 
a  bland  oil,  which  is  obtained  by  bruising  the  fruit  in  a  mill,  so 
as  not  to  crush  the  stones.  There  are  several  kinds  of  oil  found 
in  the  shops  ;  the  best  is  that  called  Florence,  or  Lucca  oil ;  an 
inferior  kind  called  Genoa,  or  second  oil,  which,  when  fresh  and 
sweet,  is  very  good,  and  for  ointments,  &c.  is  usually  employed. 
The  worst  is  that  called  Gallipoli,  which  smells  strong,  and  is 
used  chiefly  by  the  clothiers.  Olive  oil  is  very  valuable,  both  as 
food  and  as  a  medicine.  It  is  given  in  some  cases  of  poisons  ; 
see  Poisons  forwards  ;  and  it  is  used  in  many  liniments,  cerates, 
and  ointments.  In  places  subject  to  the  plague,  the  body  is  often 
rubbed  all  over  with  olive  oil,  to  prevent  infection.  Olive  oil, 
when  combined  with  soda,  makes  an  excellent  soap.  Castile  soap 
is  such  a  soap,  combined  with  a  portion  of  iron  to  give  it  the 
marbled  appearance. 

We  may  just  mention  that  a  friend  of  ours  brought,  in  December 
1830,  from  Nice  to  this  country,  in  his  private  carriage,  a  wild 
orange-tree,  on  which  were  engrafted  an  olive  and  a  jessamine. 
The  jessamine  was  in  blossom,  and  the  olive  and  orange  both 
looked  well ;  but  the  winter  was  severe,  and  affected  them  a  good 
deal.  They,  however,  recovered  and  continued  to  thrive,  being 
kept  during  the  winter  in  a  house  moderately  warm.  The  olive 
is  now  (July  1833)  particularly  thriving;  but  the  jessamine  was 


438 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


they  unite.  It  may  be  made  at  any  time  more  mild  by  the 
addition  of  more  oil. 

Note,  that  this  is  an  excellent  application  upon  flannel 
to  the  throat  when  in  an  inflammatory  state ;  it  may  be 
also  rubbed  on  the  skin  over  any  part  affected  with  rheumatic 
pains.  Indeed,  it  may  supply  the  place  of  the  well-known 
soap  liniment  or  opodeldoc,  for  which  see  our  Family 
Cyclopedia,  article  Liniment. 

It  is  also  very  useful  in  various  indolent  swellings  of 
horses  and  cattle,  particularly  to  cows’  udders. 

POMADE  DIVINE.  Take  of  beef  marrow  thirty-six 
ounces ;  of  rose  water  three  ounces ;  of  gum  benzoin 
bruised,  storax,  and  orrice-root,  of  each  one  ounce  and  a 
half ;  of  nutmegs  bruised  one  drachm  and  a  half ;  of  oil 
of  cassia  twenty  drops ;  of  oil  of  cloves  forty  drops. 
Break  the  marrow  into  small  pieces,  and  let  it  soak  in 
three  pints  of  water  for  six  days,  changing  the  water 
every  day ;  or  boil  the  marrow  in  water,  so  as  to  deprive 
it  of  its  blood  and  membranes  :  then  strain  off  the  marrow 
and  water  together,  and  let  the  marrow  remain  with  it  till 
it  cools  into  a  cake.  Mix  now  the  marrow  with  the  rose¬ 
water  and  the  benzoin,  orrice-root  and  nutmegs,  and  boil 
the  whole  together  in  a  water-bath  in  a  vessel  well  stopped. 
In  about  three  or  four  hours  let  the  pomade  be  strained  off 
through  a  coarse  linen  cloth,  and  add  to  it  the  essential 
oils. 

Note,  that  this  is  a  useful  application  to  sore  nipples, 
chapped  lips,  and  other  similar  sores. 

POMATUM  consists  of  lard,  rose-water,  and  some 
aromatic  oil,  such  as  essence  of  lemon  or  bergamotte :  the 
lard  should  be  melted,  and  poured  into  a  vessel  which 
will  hold  considerably  more  than  the  quantity  which  is 
wanted ;  add  to  the  melted  lard  the  rose-water  in  the  pro¬ 
portion  of  two  ounces  to  each  pound  of  lard.  Beat  the 
rose-water  and  lard  well  together  with  a  wisp  such  as  is 
used  by  clothiers,  till  it  begins  to  grow  cold,  when  the 
scent  is  to  be  added ;  a  drachm  to  a  pound  of  lard  will  be 
scent  enough.  Some  will  add  a  mixture  of  essence  of 

a  few  weeks  ago  torn  off  the  orange  stock  by  a  tempestuous  wind. 
This  plant  was  considered  a  great  curiosity  :  it  was  kept  at  a 
nursery  in  the  Kent-road. 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY.  439 

lemon,  bergamotte,  oil  of  lavender,  and  essence  of  am- 
j  bergris. 

BLISTER  PLASTER.  Take  of  yellow  wax  three 
ounces  and  a  half;  of  yellow  resin  and  Burgundy  pitch, 
each  two  ounces  ;  horse  turpentine,  five  ounces ;  Spanish 
flies  in  powder,  four  ounces.  Melt  first  the  resin,  next 
the  wax  in  the  resin,  and  then  the  Burgundy  pitch,  to 
which  add  the  horse  turpentine  ;  remove  the  mixture  from 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  a  little  cooled,  sprinkle  in  the 
Spanish  flies,  and  stir  the  whole  till  it  is  cold. 

BLISTER  PLASTERS  should  be  spread  upon  leather, 
if  possible  without  using  any  heat.  It  is  desirable  to  place 
round  them  a  margin,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide,  of 
wax  plaster  or  other  adhesive  substance,  the  better  to 
insure  their  sticking,  and  they  should  be  adapted  in  size 
and  shape  to  the  part  to  which  they  are  intended  to  be  ap¬ 
plied.  A  blister  behind  the  ears  requires  the  greatest 
nicety  in  adapting  it  to  the  part. 

Note ,  that  when  the  blister  is  placed  upon  the  part,  it 
ought  to  be  covered  over  carefully  with  flannel  in  order  that 
its  rising  may  be  more  effectually  accomplished.  When  it 
has  properly  risen,  (and,  if  large,  it  will  take  some  hours  to 
rise,)  it  should  be  snipped  in  one  or  two  of  the  most  de¬ 
pending  places,  so  that  the  lymph  collected  may  run  out; 
this  is  best  received  on  linen  cloths.  After  which  the  skin 
must  not  be  taken  off,  but  may  be  gently  pressed  with  a 
|  cloth  to  evacuate  all  the  water.  If  it  be  desired  to  be  healed 
immediately,  a  plaster  of  spermaceti  cerate  may  be  applied. 
But  if  it  be  desired  to  be  kept  open  for  a  few  days,  or  con¬ 
verted  into  what  is  called  a  perpetual  blister,  a  plaster  of 
savin  cerate  or  blistering  fly  ointment,  will  be  necessary. 
Savin  cerate  is  considered  the  best  for  such  purpose.  The 
white  crust  on  the  sore  should  be  occasionally  removed. 

To  allay  the  itching  of  blistered  surfaces  when  healing, 
the  best  remedy  is  calamine  cerate  rubbed  with  the  fingers 
all  over  the  part. 

For  more  concerning  Blisters,  see  our  Family  Cyclo¬ 
paedia,  article  Blister. 

CLYSTERS,  or  QJLISTERS,  are  well  known  as  li¬ 
quids  introduced  into  the  intestines  by  the  rectum,  in  order 
to  evacuate  the  contents  of  the  lower  bowels  in  particular. 


440 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


They  are  administered  in  a  variety  of  complaints,  chiefly  to 
evacuate  the  contents  of  the  belly  in  obstinate  costiveness. 
They  are  also  sometimes  employed  to  give  to  persons  un¬ 
able  to  swallow  ordinary  food,  nutricious  aliment,  so  that 
life  may  be  thus  supported  for  a  long  time. 

A  compound  decoction  of  mallows,  as  a  vehicle  for  the 
more  active  ingredients  of  a  clyster,  is  ordered  by  the 
London  College  of  Physicians  to  be  prepared  thus :  Take 
of  common  mallow  leaves  dried,  one  ounce  ;  of  chamomile 
flowers,  half  an  ounce  ;  water,  a  pint ;  boil  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  strain. 

A  laxative  clyster  may  be  made  with  half  a  pint  of  the 
above  decoction,  or  of  barley-water  or  gruel,  or  of  mutton 
broth,  in  which  may  be  dissolved  one  ounce  of  Glauber’s 
or  Epsom  salts;  or  with  which  may  be  mixed  one  ounce  of 
castor  oil:  this  last,  with  mutton  broth,  is,  perhaps,  the 
best  for  obstinate  constipation. 

Clysters  should  be  administered  when  at  about  the  tem¬ 
perature  of  the  human  body;  that  is,  between  the  80th 
and  96th  degree  of  Farenheit’s  thermometer ;  or,  as  it  is 
more  commonly  called,  blood-iuarm.  The  quantity  for  a 
clyster  for  adults  is  from  half  a  pint  to  a  pint ;  for  chil¬ 
dren,  according  to  their  age — from  two  or  three  spoonsful 
to  half  a  pint. 

APPARATUS  FOR  CLYSTERS  are  of  various  kinds. 
One  has  been  lately  invented,  and  is  sold  in  London,  by 
which  the  patient  can  administer  the  clyster  to  himself. 
Another,  and  a  very  convenient  and  useful  one,  consists  of 
a  large  bottle  of  Indian-rubber,  having  a  moveable  clyster- 
pipe  screwed  into  a  brass  collar.  The  commonest  apparatus 
is  that  consisting  of  a  bladder  and  a  clyster-pipe  adapted  to 
it  thus  :  the  bladder  may  either  be  that  of  a  pig,  an  ox,  or 
a  calf;  to  the  neck  of  which  the  ivory  pipe  is  attached  by  a 
packthread.  Into  the  orifice  of  the  pipe  within  the  bladder 
(the  bottom  of  which  must  be  cut  a  little  open,)  is  fixed  a 
cork,  having  a  small  twine  attached  to  it  in  such  a  way 
that  when  the  apparatus  is  properly  adjusted  in  the  rectum, 
the  cork  may  be  withdrawn  and  the  clyster  be  gradually 
pressed  up  by  the  assistant  till  the  whole  is  lodged  within 
the  intestines.  Although  this  is,  in  fact,  a  very  simple 
operation,  there  is  a  tenderness  and  delicacy  required  in  it 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


441 


II 

■  that  ought  to  be  attained  by  every  attendant  on  a  sick 
person ;  and  more  especially  is  this  required  should  the 
patient  be  a  female. 

Besides  these  several  methods,  syringes  have  been  em¬ 
ployed  for  the  administration  of  clysters ;  indeed,  the 
apparatus  for  the  seZ/-administration  of  a  clyster  consists 
essentially  of  a  Syringe. 

THE  GREEN  OINTMENT  OF  ELDER  (which 
has  been  long  expunged  from  our  Pharmacopoeias,  being 
considered  as  nothing  better,  if  so  good,  as  hogs’  lard,)  is 
made  by  boiling  equal  weights  of  lard  and  bruised  elder- 
leaves  till  they  are  crisp,  and  then  straining  and  strongly 
i  pressing  out  the  ointment. 

ELDER-FLOWER  OINTMENT  is  still  retained  by 
the  London  College,  and  thus  directed  to  be  made :  Take 
of  elder-flowers  and  of  lard,  of  each  two  pounds  ;  boil  them 
together  till  the  flowers  are  crisp,  and  strain. 

Note,  that,  except  for  the  smell,  we  do  not  know  that 
this  ointment  is  even  equal  to  lard  as  an  emollient. 

THE  JUICE  OF  RIPE  ELDER  BERRIES  rubbed  a 
few  times  upon  warts,  which  sometimes  infest  the  hands,  and 
being  suffered  to  dry  upon  them,  the  hands  being  previously 
bathed  in  warm  water,  will  in  general  remove  them.  The 
juice  should  be  applied  as  minutely  as  possible  in  and 
around  every  wart. 

We  do  not  give  forms  for  making  either  Yellow  Basilicon, 
or  Turner’s  Cerate,  that  is,  Calamine  Ointment,  because 
almost  every  body  knows  how  to  make  them.  If,  however, 
any  one  be  desirous  of  knowing  the  composition  of  these, 
our  Family  Cyclopaedia  may  be  consulted. 

CHILBLAINS,  if  unbroken,  are  best  alleviated  by 
bathing  them  in  oil  of  turpentine  or  spirits  of  wine  and 
camphor.  If  broken,  the  best  application  will  be,  in  slight 
cases,  calamine  cerate ;  if  severe,  an  ointment  made  of 
one  ounce  of  yellow  basilicon  and  one  drachm  of  red  pre¬ 
cipitate,  well  mixed  together,  and  applied  on  lint  or  linen 
rag :  the  part  should  be  kept  moderately  warm. 

Note ,  that  chilblains  are  generally  produced  by  ex¬ 
posing  the  hands  or  feet  to  sudden  heat  when  they  are  very 
cold;  and,  therefore,  in  order  to  avoid  them,  instead  of 
bringing  the  cold  hands  or  cold  feet  to  the  fire,  they  ought 

u  3 


442 


MEDICINAL  COOKERY. 


to  be  rubbed  with  a  cloth  or  washed  in  cold  water,  so  that 
warmth  may  be  gradually  imparted  to  them. 

CHOPPED  HANDS  are  often  produced  by  bringing 
them  when  cold  suddenly  to  the  fire,  or  by  plunging  them 
into  hot  water  to  wash  them.  Both  these  conditions  should 
be  avoided.  The  hands  should  be  always  washed  in  cold 
water  ;  and  they  should  be  prevented,  if  possible,  from 
becoming  very  cold  by  gloves.  Exposing  them  suddenly 
to  the  fire  after  washing  them,  will  be  very  likely  to  produce 
the  malady. 

AN  EFFECTUAL  REMEDY  FOR  THE  ITCH. 
Take  of  hog’s  lard,  two  ounces  ;  of  flowers  of  sulphur,  one 
ounce  ;  of  white  hellebore-root,  in  powder,  one  drachm  ;  of 
olive  oil,  one  ounce  ;  of  essence  of  bergamot,  sufficient  to 
impart  a  pleasant  smell.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  by 
rubbing,  with  a  bolus  or  other  knife,  on  a  smooth  stone. 
This  ointment  will  be  sufficient  to  anoint  the  whole  of  the 
body,  except  the  head,  once.  The  operation  should  be 
performed  just  before  going  to  bed.  The  patient  should 
remain  in  bed  thus  anointed  for  twelve  hours ;  and,  on 
rising  from  it,  should  be  washed  with  warm  water  and 
soap  thoroughly  clean ;  putting  on,  at  the  same  time,  not 
only  clean  linen,  but,  if  possible,  every  other  kind  of  clean 
clothing.  This  process,  once  gone  through,  will  rarely  if 
ever  fail  to  be  effectual.  A  day  previously  to  the  applica¬ 
tion,  the  patient  should  take  a  drachm  of  flowers  of  sulphur 
mixed  into  an  electuary  with  treacle  or  milk ;  and  the  like 
dose  a  day  or  two  afterwards. 

Note,  that  this  is  a  far  more  certain  cure  than  mercury, 
and  is,  at  the  same  time,  perfectly  safe.  The  miseries  of 
mercury  in  this  complaint  may  be  seen  in  page  430,  under 
Treacle  Posset. 

LINIMENT  FOR  SCALDS  AND  BURNS.  Mix 
together  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil  and  lime-water.  Let  the 
mixture  be  applied  by  cloths  dipped  in  it  and  folded  over 
the  part.  Extract  of  lead  and  lime-water  may  be  also 
mixed  and  applied  in  the  same  way. 

Note,  that  one  of  the  best  remedies  for  a  scald  is  wheat- 
flour  shaken  over  the  part  from  a  flour-box,  immediately 
after  the  accident,  and  suffered  to  remain  till  the  crust 
formed  by  the  flour  falls  off. 


443 


SCALDS,  BURNS,  POISONS. 

Till  this  remedy  was  discovered,  it  was  usual  to  plunge 
the  scalded  part,  as  soon  after  the  accident  as  possible,  into 
cold  water  or  vinegar,  and  keep  it  there  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes :  this  remedy  will  sometimes  succeed  very  well. 

For  burns,  liniment  of  turpentine ,  made  with  four 
ounces  each  of  yellow  resin,  wax,  and  olive  oil  melted 
together;  to  which,  when  removed  from  the  fire,  six  ounces 
of  oil  of  turpentine  must  be  added  ;  and  the  whole  strained 
while  hot,  has  been  recommended  as  a  dressing  until  the 
loosening  of  the  eschars.  Before  applying  the  liniment, 
Dr.  Kentish  recommends  the  part  to  be  bathed  with  warm 
oil  of  turpentine.  Or  cotton  wool  may  be  applied  to  the 
burned  parts  ;  and  if  blisters  have  formed,  it  is  said  ( Penny 
Magazine,  vol.  ii.  page  15)  that  they  should  not  be  opened. 

But  in  all  serious  injuries  from,  scalds  and  burns , 
the  wisest  course  will  be  to  apply  at  once  to  a  medical 
practitioner. 

We  conclude  our  notice  of  Medicinal  Cookery  by  the 
following  Table  on  Poisons.  It  is  true  we  have  given  it 
in  our  Family  Cyclopaedia  ;  but  we  deem  it  proper  that 
it  should  be  here  reprinted.  And  although  we  recommend 
in  every  case  where  poisons  have  been  taken,  either  by 
accident  or  design,  as  the  best  and  safest  course,  immediate 
application  to  the  first  medical  advice ;  yet,  as  many 
poisons  operate  and  destroy  life  so  rapidly  that  the  patient 
may  die  before  the  medical  professor  may  arrive,  it  will  be 
sometimes,  if  not  always  necessary,  that  the  persons  about 
the  patient  should  exert  their  best  skill  according  to  the 
following  directions,  in  removing  the  poison  from  the 
stomach,  or  in  otherwise  neutralizing  its  effects. 


TABLE  ON  POISONS. 


Substances. 


Symptoms. 


Remedies. 


CONCENTRAT¬ 
ED  ACIDS: 
The  vitriolic  or  sul¬ 
phuric,  nitric,  mu 
riatic,  oxalic,  &c. 


Burning  pain,  vomit¬ 
ing;  matter  thrown  up 
effervescing  with  chalk, 
salt  of  tartar,  lime,  or 
magnesia. 


Calcined  magnesia  ;  one  ounce 
to  a  pint  of  warm  or  cold  water. 
A  glassful  to  be  taken  every  two 
minutes,  so  as  to  excite  vomit¬ 
ing.  Soap,  or  chalk  and  water  ; 
mucilaginous  drinks  afterwards, 
such  as  linseed-tea  or  gum-arabic 
and  water. 


ALKALIES: 
Potash,  soda,  am¬ 
monia,  lime,  &c. 


Nearly  the  same:  the 
ejected  matter  does  not 
effervesce  with  alkalies, 
but  acids. 


Vinegar  or  lemon-juice ;  a 
spoonful  or  two  in  a  glass  of  wa¬ 
ter  very  frequently;  simply 
warm  water. 


444 


POISONS 


Substances. 

MERCURIAL 

PREPARA¬ 

TIONS: 

Corrosive  subli¬ 
mate,  &c. 

ARSENICAL 

PREPARA¬ 

TIONS: 

White  arsenjc,  &c. 

PREPARATIONS 
of  COPPER  : 
Brass,  verdigris, 
halfpence,  &c. 

PREPARATIONS 
of  ANTIMONY: 
Emetic  tartar.  Sec. 


NITRE,  or  SALT¬ 
PETRE. 


PHOSPHORUS. 
LEAD  : 

Sugar  of  lead,  Gou¬ 
lard’s  extract,  &c. 

BARYTES : 

The  carbonate,  mu¬ 
riate,  &  c. 


PRUSSIC  ACID. 


SAL  AMMO¬ 
NIAC. 


GLASS,  or 
ENAMEL. 


ALCOHOL: 
Brandy,  rum,  gin, 
wine,  Stc. 


IRRITATING 
VEGETABLE 
POISONS: 
Monk’s  hood,  mea¬ 
dow-saffron,  ipeca¬ 
cuanha,  hellebore, 
bear’s- foot,  savine, 
Sec. 


Symptoms. 


Remedies. 


Sense  of constriction  in 
the  throat ;  matter  vo¬ 
mited  sometimes  mixed 
with  blood. 

Extreme  irritation  ; 
pain, sickness  and  speedy 
death,  if  the  poison  be 
not  soon  counteracted. 

Symptoms  nearly  the 
same  as  from  mercury. 


White  of  eggs;  twelve  or  fif¬ 
teen  eggs  beaten  up,  aud  mixed 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water.  A 
glassful  every  three  minutes  ; 
milk,  gum-water,  linseed-tea. 

Warm  water  with  sugar,  in 
large  quantities  to  excite  vomit¬ 
ing.  Lime-water,  soap  and  wa¬ 
ter,  pearl-ash  and  water,  mucila¬ 
ginous  drinks. 

White  of  eggs;  mucilaginous 
drinks.  See  Mercurial  Prepara¬ 
tions,  above. 


Extreme  sickness, with 
other  symptoms  of  poi¬ 
son,  as  above  stated. 


Obstinate  vomiting ; 
sometimes  of  blood,  &c. 

Like  mineral  acids. 

Great  pain  in  the  sto¬ 
mach,  with  constriction 
of  the  throat,  &c. 

Vomiting,  convulsions, 
palsy,  pain  in  the  sto¬ 
mach,  &c. 


The  most  virulent  poi¬ 
son,  producing  almost 
inslant  death,  when  ap¬ 
plied  even  in  small  quan¬ 
tities  to  the  surface  of 
the  body. 

Excessive  vomitings, 
convulsions,  pain  in  the 
bowels,  alteration  in  the 
features;  death. 


If  taken  in  coarse  pow¬ 
der,  produces  irritation 
and  inflammation  of  the 
bowels. 

Intoxication:  when  ta¬ 
ken  in  large  quantities, 
insensibility,  apoplexy, 
or  paralysis  ;  counte¬ 
nance  swollen,  and  of  a 
dark  red  colour;  breath¬ 
ing  difficult  ;  often  death. 

Acrid  taste;  excessive 
heat;  violent  vomiting ; 
purging;  great  pain  in 
the  stomach  and  bowels. 
Externally  applied,  many 
of  them  produce  inflam¬ 
mation,  blisters,  pus¬ 
tules. 


Warm  water  or  sugar  and 
water;  afterwards  a  grain  of 
opium,  or  fifteen  drops  of  lauda 
num,  every  quarter  of  an  hour, 
for  two  or  three  times. 

The  same  as  for  arsenic,  with 
the  exception  of  lime-water  and 
alkalies. 

Like  mineral  acids. 

Large  doses  of  Glauber’s  or  Ep¬ 
som  salts  in  warm  water. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Epsom  or 
Glauber’s  salts  dissolved  in  a 
quart  of  water.  Several  glasses  to 
betaken.  In  place  of  these  salts, 
large  draughts  of  hard  well-water. 

Emetics;  afterwards  oil  of  tur¬ 
pentine,  ammonia,  brandy,  with 
warmth,  friction,  and  blisters. 


Vomiting  to  be  rendered  easy 
by  large  draughts  of  warm  sugar 
and  water.  If  vomiting  be  not 
produced  by  the  poison,  it  must 
be  excited  by  the  finger.  After¬ 
wards  opiates. 

Large  quantities  of  crumb  of 
bread  should  be  eaten ;  after¬ 
wards  an  emetic  of  white  vitriol, 
and  demulcent  drinks. 

A  powerful  emetic  of  white  vi¬ 
triol,  or  emetic  tartar ;  vomiting 
to  be  encouraged  by  warm  water, 
and  large  clysters  of  salt  water; 
bleeding;  if  the  head  be  very  hot, 
cold  wet  cloths  may  be  applied  ;  if 
the  extremities  be  cold,  friction. 

If  vomiting  be  produced  by  the 
poison,  large  draughts  of  warm 
water  or  thin  gruel,  to  render  it 
easier.  If  insensibility  be  present, 
white  vitriol  or  other  active 
emetic  :  after  the  operation  of 
which,  a  brisk  purgative  ;  then  a 
strong  infusion  of  coffee  or  vine¬ 
gar  diluted  with  water. 


POISONS 


445 


\ 

Substances. 

NARCOTICS: 
Opium,  henbane, 
hemlock,  night- 
J  shade,  &c. 


ACRID 
NARCOTICS  : 
Mushrooms. 


I 

Nux  vomica.  St. 
I  Ignatius’s  bean,  the 
ij,  upas,  cocculus  indi- 
!]  cus,  &c. 


POISONOUS 
FISH  : 

I  j;  Oldwife,  lobster, 
]  )  crab,  dolphin,  con- 
i|  ger  eel,  muscle, 
ii  &c. 


Symptoms. 

Stupor ;  desire  to  vo¬ 
mit  ;  heaviness  in  the 
head;  dilated  pupil  of 
the  eye  ;  delirium  ; 
speedy  death. 


Nausea ;  heat ;  pain  in 
the  stomach  and  bowels; 
vomiting  ;  purging  ; 
thirst ;  convulsions  ;  cold 
sweats  ;  death. 


None  of  these  inflame 
the  parts  they  touch.  In¬ 
troduced  into  the  sto¬ 
mach,  or  applied  to 
wounds,  they  are  rapidly 
absorbed,  producing  ge¬ 
nerally  rigidity,  convul¬ 
sions,' ana  death. 

In  an  hour  or  two,  or 
sooner,  after  some  fish 
have  been  eaten,  more 
especially  if  stale,  weight 
at  the  stomach,  sickness, 
giddiness,  thirst,  &c. 
come  on  :  in  some  cases, 
death. 


POISONOUS 
1  SERPENTS : 

The  viper  or  adder, 
Ij  rattle-snake,  &c. 


A  sharp  pain  in  the 
wounded  part,  soon  ex¬ 
tending-  over  the  body; 
great  swelling  ;  first  hard 
and  pale,  then  reddish  ; 
faintings,  vomitings, 
convulsions  ;  inflamma¬ 
tion,  often  extensive 
suppuration,  gangrene, 
and  death. 


SPANISH  FLIES.  Nauseous  odour  of  the 
breath,  burning  heat  in 
the  throat  and  stomach  ; 
vomiting,  often  bloody ; 
painful  priapism,  heat  in 
the  bladder,  convulsions, 
delirium,  death. 


VENOMOUS 
INSECTS: 
Tarantula,  scor¬ 
pion,  hornet,  wasp, 
bee,  gnat,  Sic. 


In  general,  only  a 
slight  degree  of  pain  and 
swelling;  sometimes 
sickness  and  fever. 


Remedies. 

Four  or  five  grains  of  emetic 
tartar  in  a  glass  of  water.  If  this 
dose  does  not  succeed,  four 
grains  of  blue  vitriol,  as  an  eme¬ 
tic.  Do  not  give  large  quantities 
of  water.  After  the  poison  has 
been  ejected,  give  vinegar,  lemon 
juice,  or  cream  of  tartar  and 
strong  coffee. 

Three  grains  of  emetic  tartar  in 
a  glass  of  water:  in  fifteen  mi¬ 
nutes  the  dose  to  be  repeated. 
After  vomiting,  frequent  doses 
of  Glauber’s  or  Epsom  salts,  and 
stimulating  clysters. 

The  emetic  as  under  Mush¬ 
rooms-.  lungs  to  be  inflated.  Two 
ounces  of  water,  one  drachm  of 
ether,  two  drachms  of  oil  of  tur¬ 
pentine,  and  half  an  ounce  of  su¬ 
gar,  mixed  together ;  two  spoons¬ 
ful  of  which  to  be  taken  every 
ten  minutes. 

An  emetic  ;  vomiting  to  be  ex¬ 
cited  by  tickling  the  throat  with 
the  finger,  and  by  draughts  of 
warm  water.  After  vomiting,  an 
active  purgative ;  afterwards  vi¬ 
negar  and  water,  or  water  sweet¬ 
ened  with  sugar,  and  an  addition 
of  ethe--.  After  the  evacuations, 
laudanum. 

A  moderately  tight  ligature  to 
be  applied  above  the  bite,  and  the 
wound  left  to  bleed,  after  being 
washed  with  warm  water.  The 
actual  cautery,  lunar  caustic,  or 
butter  of  antimony,  to  be  applied; 
then  lint  dipped  in  equal  parts  of 
olive  oil  anu  spirit  of  hartshorn. 
Ligature  to  be  removed  if  the 
inflammation  be  considerable. 
Warm  dilutingdrinks,with  small 
doses  ofammoniaorhartshorn,to 
cause  perspiration.  The  patient 
should  be  well  covered  in  bed. 
drinking  occasionally  warm 
wine.  If  gangrene  threaten,  wine 
and  bark  must  be  freely  given. 

Vomiting,  freely  excited  by 
sweet  oil,  sugar  and  water,  or 
linseed-tea;  emollient  clysters. 
Camphor  dissolved  in  oil  may  be 
rubbed  over  the  belly  and  thighs. 


H  artsliorn  and  oil,  salt  and  wa¬ 
ter  ;  a  few  drops  of  hartshorn 
may  be  taken  internally  in  a  glass 
of  water.  The  sting  may  in  ge¬ 
neral  be  removed  by  making  a 
strong  pressure  over  it  with  the 
barrel  of  a  small  watch-key. 


446 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 

[Under  this  section  we  place  some  miscellaneous  direc¬ 
tions  which  could  not  be  conveniently  arranged  elsewhere 
in  our  work.  It  is  true  Useful  Recfes  impart  ideas  of  con¬ 
siderable  latitude;  but  we  shall  take  care,  on  many  accounts, 
not  to  increase  very  much  the  size  of  our  volume,  which  has 
already  extended  far  beyond  the  limits  originally  assigned 
to  it ;  for  this  reason  it  is  that  we  must  omit  entirely  Direc¬ 
tions  for  the  Management  of  the  Dairy,  of  Bees,  of 
Poultry,  and  of  the  Garden.  But  as  Mr.  Mowbray’s 
Book  on  Poultry,  the  Dairy,  and  on  Bees,  &c.  offers  a 
very  useful  manual  on  these  subjects,  we  confidently  refer  to 
it  as  one  in  which  the  expectations  of  the  Domestic  Econo¬ 
mist  will  not  be  disappointed.  Epitomes  on  Gardening 
are  veiy  numerous  ;  but  in  our  Family  Cyclopaedia  will 
be  found  most  of  the  information  (except  the  monthly 
routine )  which  is  usually  desired  concerning  that  pleasing 
and  wre  may  add  delightful  art.] 

ARTIFICIAL  CREAM  may  be  made  by  beating  up  an 
egg  or  eggs  with  some  powdered  lump  sugar,  diluting  the 
mixture  gradually  with  warm  water  and  afterwards  passing 
it  through  a  hair  sieve.  The  proportions  must  be  left  to 
the  judgment  of  the  operator. 

Note,  that  this  cannot  be  offered  as  a  complete  succeda- 
neum  for  cream  ;  but  where  cream  cannot  be  obtained,  as 
on  ship-board  for  instance,  it  will  supply  the  place  of  it 
tolerably  well.  But  we,  be  it  remembered,  do  not  advocate 
its  employment  by  the  dyspeptic,  or  others  wThose  diges¬ 
tions  are  not  of  the  first  order. 

POTTING  BUTTER.  As  the  Welsh  are  famous  for 
Potting  Butter,  and  as  one  of  our  Council  of  Cooks  is 
at  this  time  (Sept.  1833)  on  a  visit  to  a  lady  (Mrs.  Francis) 
of  Prickweltycoed,  near  Carmarthen,  from  whom  we 
have  received  for  some  time  past  annually  a  supply  of  that 
article,  we  have  obtained  Mrs.  Francis’s  method  of  pro¬ 
ceeding,  which  is  at  once  one  of  the  simplest  and  best 
of  which  we  have  ever  heard. 

“  Eight  cows  produce  about  six  gallons  of  cream  per 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


447 


¥ 


week ;  the  cream  after  being  taken  off  the  milk  is  left  to 
settle  for  one  week  ;  it  is  then  put  into  the  churn  and 
churned  till  it  becomes  butter,  when  it  is  taken  out  and 
placed  in  a  tub  in  spring  water ;  from  the  tub  it  is  taken 
out  in  small  portions  and  clapped  on  a  wooden  clapper  held 
in  one  hand  and  beaten  by  the  other.  When  it  is  all  thus 
treated,  your  butter  must  be  put  into  the  tub  again  (without 
water  of  course)  and  be  well  mixed  with  salt,  one  pound  of 
which  and  no  more  is  used  for  every  tw’enty  pounds  of  but¬ 
ter.  When  the  butter  is  thus  salted,  it  must  be  clapped 
again  as  before  and  then  put  into  the  jar  or  cask  in  which 
it  is  to  be  finally  kept.  The  cask,  if  a  cask  be  employed, 
must  be  previously  well  scoured  with  sand  and  boiling  water 
and  then  set  to  dry.  When  dry,  it  must  be  wetted  in  the 
inside  with  salt  and  water,  and  then  the  butter  must  be  put 
in.” 

Note,  that  from  the  small  quantity  of  salt  employed  we 
had  our  suspicions  that  some  mistake  had  been  committed  ; 
but  on  inquiry  again  of  Mrs.  Francis  only  one  pound  of 
salt  to  twenty  pounds  of  butter  is  employed.  We  are 
enabled  to  speak  of  the  effective  nature  of  this  process  by 
long  experience ;  and  we  may  observe  too,  besides,  that 
upon  the  most  effectual  separation  of  the  butter-milk  by 
clapping  as  above,  depends,  we  have  no  doubt,  the  chief 
success  of  the  process  of  potting  butter  together  with  its 
being  salted  as  soon  as  it  is  churned  or  very  shortly  after¬ 
wards. 

See  Butter  in  pages  23  and  24. 

EAU  DE  COLOGNE.  Take  of  essence  of  Berga- 
motte  three  ounces  ;  essence  of  orange  flowers  ( Neroli ) 
one  drachm  and  a  half ;  of  essence  of  citron  two  drachms ; 
of  essence  of  lemon  three  drachms  ;  of  oil  of  rosemary  one 
drachm  ;  of  compound  honey-water  two  pints  and  a  quar¬ 
ter  ;  of  rectified  spirit  of  wine  twelve  pints ;  of  spirit  of 
rosemary  three  pints  and  a  half ;  mix  them  all  together  and 
distil  in  a  water-bath,  sixteen  or  more  pints. 

Note,  that  this  is  an  unnecessary  complication  ;  it  is  one 
of  which  our  neighbours  as  well  as  ourselves  were  formerly 
fond  :  it  may  be  considerably  simplified  without  any  injury 
to  its  aromatic  or  cosmetic  properties.  It  is  sometimes 


448 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


made  into  a  ratafia  with  sugar  according  to  the  proportion 
of  sugar  in  other  ratafias.,  which  see. 

The  following  articles  were  accidentally  omitted  under 
their  proper  heads. 

To  BOIL  BACON.  It  should  have  been  mentioned 
after  Ham  in  page  7,  that  Bacon  is  usually  brought  to  the 
table  when  boiled,  with  the  skin  stripped  off  and  some 
grated  crumb  of  bread  or  brown  crust  strewed  over  it. 
But  see  what  is  said  in  regard  to  the  nutritious  properties  of 
skin  under  Ham  in  page  7.  It  may  not  be  fashionable  to 
send  boiled  bacon  to  table  with  the  skin  upon  it ;  but  sure 
we  are  that,  when  it  is  well  boiled,  the  skin  is  the  most 
nutritious  part  of  it. 

RED  MULLET  or  SEA  WOODCOCK.  This  fish  is, 
after  being  cleaned,  baked  with  the  entrails  in  it;  it  is 
usually  folded  in  oiled  or  buttered  paper.  A  gravy  is  made 
with  the  liquor  that  comes  from  them,  and  butter,  soy, 
essence  of  anchovy  and  wine. 

BURGOO  is  a  Scotch  dish  and  usually  made  by  mixing 
oatmeal  in  pretty  large  quantity  with  water  into  a  smooth 
pap  and  then  boiling  it  for  a  time  sufficiently  long  to  dis¬ 
solve  the  meal  in  the  water  ;  it  is,  in  fact,  merely  a  thick 
gruel.  When  it  is  taken  off  the  fire,  salt,  butter,  and 
sometimes  pepper  are  mixed  writh  it  to  make  it  palatable. 

WHITE  POT  is  a  west  country  dish ;  it  is  usually  made 
with  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  sometimes  w?ith  eggs,  to 
which  are  added  spices,  &c.  such  as  nutmegs,  and  also 
sugar  ;  sometimes  currants  are  also  added  to  it.  It  is  in  fact 
an  unwholesome  pap,  which  we  have  no  disposition  to  re¬ 
commend. 

Note,  that  rice  is  occasionally  employed  instead  of  flour ; 
cream,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  blanched  almonds  pounded, 
candied  orange,  &c.  are  also  now  and  then  added  to  increase 
at  once  the  richness  and  unwholesomeness  of  the  mixture; 
from  all  such  may  we  be  ever  defended  ! 

RENNET  is  prepared  in  various  ways.  But  the  most 
usual  method  is  the  following.  The  vell,  that  is,  the 
lowest  or  proper  stomach  of  the  calf,  is  usually  salted  to 
preserve  it ;  and  in  its  preserved  state  it  will  keep  for  years 
if  it  be  kept  moist  with  salt ;  indeed  among  the  dairy 
farmers  the  older  the  vell  is  the  more  it  is  esteemed.  The 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


449 


veil  when  you  want  your  rennet  is  to  be  taken  out  of  the 
pickle  and  spread  upon  sticks  or  some  other  proper  conveni¬ 
ence,  and  dried.  A  quart  of  spring  water  is  then  to  be 
poured  on  the  veil,  which  if  cut  into  pieces  will  yield  its 
acid  more  readily.  It  should  remain  in  the  water  twenty- 
four  hours.  The  veil  may  be  then  taken  out  and  put  into 
another  vessel,  with  about  half  the  quantity  of  water,  and 
allowed  to  remain  in  it  for  a  like  period.  The  first  and 
second  infusions  must  be  mixed  together  and  strained  into 
a  jar,  to  which  must  be  added  a  considerable  quantity  of 
salt.  The  liquor  is  then  fit  for  use,  and  requires  no  after 
management,  except  that  of  taking  off  the  scum  which 
usually  rises  to  the  top,  and  adding  a  little  salt,  wThen  that 
already  in  the  jar  is  nearly  dissolved.  Half  a  pint  of  this 
liquor  is  generally  sufficient  to  coagulate  such  a  quantity  of 
milk  as  will  make  sixty  pounds  of  cheese.  When  a  portion 
as  taken  out,  the  liquor  should  be  wTell  stirred  up. 

Note ,  that  when  a  small  quantity  of  rennet  only  is 
wanted,  a  small  portion  of  the  veil  may  be  employed. 

The  SALT  OF  LEMON  sold  in  boxes  in  the  shops  con¬ 
sists  generally  of  equal  parts  of  salt  of  sorrel,  sal  acetosa, 
and  cream  of  tartar  rubbed  into  a  powder.  But  the  salt  of 
sorrel  is  more  powerful,  when  used  alone,  in  getting  out 
iron-moulds  from  linen,  cotton,  &c.;  it  operates  simply  by 
dissolving  the  iron  which  produces  the  stain ;  of  course 
^Stronger  acids  wall  dissolve  the  iron ;  but  if  these  be  em¬ 
ployed,  there  is  danger  of  their  destroying  the  cloth.  It  is 
best  applied  to  the  cloth  when  stretched  over  a  tumbler  of 
boiling  water,  or  on  some  metallic  plate,  such  as  of  pewter 
made  boiling  hot  with  water. 

BLACKING  for  preserving  leather  and  rendering  boots, 
shoes,  &c.  water-tight,  is  best  thus  made :  take  of  yellow 
wax  one  ounce  and  a  half ;  of  mutton  suet  four  ounces  and 
a  half ;  of  horse-turpentine  half  an  ounce  ;  ivory-black  three 
ounces.  Melt  first  the  wax,  to  which  add  the  suet,  and 
afterwards  the  horse-turpentine.  When  the  whole  is  melted 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  mix  in  gradually  the  ivory- 
black,  constantly  stirring  till  it  is  cold. 

Note,  that  this  composition  is  sometimes  run  into  moulds, 
and  sold  under  the  name  of  Blacking-balls.  When  it 
is  used  it  should  be  laid  or  rubbed  upon  a  brush,  which 


450 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


should  be  warmed  before  the  fire.  It  is  the  best  blacking 
ever  invented  for  harness.  When  wanted  in  large  quantity, 
it  may  be  melted  gently  in  a  ladle  over  a  pan  of  coals. 

LIQUID  BLACKING.  Take  of  ivory-black  and  treacle 
of  each  three  ounces ;  of  olive-oil  and  gum-arabic  of  each 
two  drachms ;  of  stale  beer  ten  ounces ;  of  vinegar  two 
ounces  ;  of  oil  of  vitriol  (sulphuric  acid)  two  drachms  ;  mix 
the  whole  together. 

Note,  that  this  will  make  a  shining  blacking;  bui  it  must 
be,  as  most  liquid  blackings  are,  injurious  to  the  leather. 

TO  PREVENT  THE  ANNOYANCE  OF  BUGS. 
Take  of  corrosive  sublimate  (which,  be  it  remembered,  is  a 
strong  poison )  half  an  ounce ;  of  lard  six  ounces.  Rub 
the  sublimate  with  a  few  drops  of  linseed-oil  in  a  marble 
mortar  till  it  becomes  smooth  and  fine,  then  add  to  it  the 
lard  by  little  and  little,  till  the  whole  is  well  mixed;  and 
lastly  as  much  more  oil  as  will  make  the  mixture  of  the 
consistence  of  a  thick  paint.  The  bedstead  is  then  to  be 
taken  to  pieces,  brushed  in  the  joints,  or,  what  is  better,  the 
joints  should  be  plunged  into  boiling  water,  afterwards 
scrubbed  with  a  brush,  and  after  they  are  dry,  some  of  the 
mixture  must  be  applied  with  a  brush  to  every  place  in 
which  a  bug  can  possibly  be  concealed.  A  bedstead  being 
thus  treated  once  a  year  will  generally  be  free  from  the 
annoyance  of  bugs,  provided  also  that  the  furniture  is  well 
washed  at  the  same  period.  And  provided  also  that  the 
master  or  mistress  of  a  family  will  personally  superintend 
the  process  here  recommended. 

When  an  application  is  desirable  to  the  furniture  of  a 
bed,  the  following  may  be  useful;  but  if  proper  attention  be 
paid  to  the  bedstead,  this  is  not  in  general  necessary :  it  is 
besides  a  recipe  for  sloth. 

Take  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine  and  oil  of  turpentine  of 
each  half  a  pint ;  mix  them  together,  and  crumble  into  the 
mixture  half  an  ounce  of  camphor ;  when  it  is  dissolved, 
shake  the  whole  well  together,  and  apply  it  to  the  furniture 
with  a  sponge  or  a  brush.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  bring 
a  candle  or  other  flaming  body  near  the  bed  when  the  mix¬ 
ture  is  applied,  as  it  is  very  inflammable. 

When  bugs  infest  the  paper  of  a  room,  and  propagate 
themselves  behind  it,  the  only  remedy  is  to  strip  the  paper 


USEFUL  RECIPES.  451 

off,  and  wash  the  walls  with  a  mixture  of  quick  lime  and 
water  without  any  size. 

BLACK  INK.  Take  of  finely  bruised  galls  three  ounces; 
of  sulphate  of  iron,  (green  copperas,)  logwood  shavings,  and 
gum  arabic,  of  each  one  ounce;  of  vinegar  one  quart. 
Digest  the  whole  in  ajar  for  a  fortnight,  stirring  the  mix¬ 
ture  every  day.  When  the  coarser  parts  have  subsided, 
pour  off  the  ink  for  use. 

Or,  take  of  bruised  galls  one  pound ;  boiling  rain-water 
one  gallon ;  pour  the  water  to  the  galls,  mix  them  well 
together,  and  let  them  stand  for  a  month,  stirring  them 
every  day.  Then  add  six  ounces  of  sulphate  of  iron  and 
two  ounces  of  roch  alum ;  when  these  are  dissolved,  add  six 
ounces  of  gum  arabic,  on  the  solution  of  which  the  ink  may 
be  poured  off. 

Or,  the  galls  may  be  boiled  in  the  water  for  an  hour  or 
more,  allowing  for  the  evaporation  of  it;  and  the  other  in¬ 
gredients  be  immediately  added  to  the  liquor  while  hot,  and 
then  strained  off ;  but  the  gum  arabic  may  be  added  after  it 
is  strained.  This  is  a  very  expeditious  way  of  making  ink, 
and,  we  believe,  a  very  good  one. 

RED  INK.  Boil  two  ounces  of  Brazil-wood  chips  in  a 
pint  of  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  adding  a  proper 
quantity  of  gum  arabic,  about  half  an  ounce,  and  as  much 
roch  alum.  Or,  take  eight  ounces  of  Brazil-wood  chips, 
four  ounces  of  roch  alum,  one  quart  of  distilled  vinegar,  and 
boil  them  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more ;  strain 
the  liquor  off,  and  add  two  ounces  of  gum  arabic.  Note , 
that  stale  strong  beer  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar. 

SPIRITS  OF  VITRIOL  are  merely  water  and  oil  of 
vitriol  mixed  together  in  various  proportions.  For  culinary 
and  domestic  purposes,  equal  parts  of  the  two  ingredients 
may  be  employed.  But  as  a  medicine,  the  London  Phar¬ 
macopoeia  directs,  under  the  name  of  diluted  sulphuric 
acid,  one  ounce  and  a  half,  by  measure,  of  sulphuric  acid 
(oil  of  vitriol)  to  be  mixed  with  fourteen  ounces  and  a  half 
of  water,  also  by  measure.  The  acid  must  be  gradually 
added  to  the  water,  and  then  mixed  by  gentle  shaking;  but, 
during  its  mixture,  the  bottle  should  not  be  stopped:  in 
fact,  it  is  best  to  mix  the  acid  with  the  water  in  a  stone  jar. 

TOOTH  POWDER.  Take  equal  parts  of  prepared 


452 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


chalk  and  charcoal,  and  let  them  be  thoroughly  mixed.  Or, 
one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  an  ounce  of  myrrh,  and 
two  drachms  of  Peruvian  bark,  all  in  powder,  and  to  be 
mixed  together :  they  may  be  made  of  a  red  colour  by 
powdered  bole  armenic  or  rose  pink.  Or,  orris  root  four 
ounces  ;  cuttle-fish  bone  two  ounces ;  cream  of  tartar  one 
ounce,  all  in  powder,  and  mixed  well  together  with  a  few 
drops  of  oil  of  cloves. 

A  WASH  FOR  THE  TEETH  may  consist  merely  of 
simple  tincture  of  myrrh.  Or,  port  wine  half  an  ounce ; 
sulphate  of  quinine  ten  grains ;  essence  of  bergamotte  a 
few  drops,  mixed  together.  To  be  applied  to  the  teeth 
with  a  soft  linen  rag  or  lint  dipped  in  it. 

MILK  OF  ROSES.  Take  of  subcarbonate  of  potash 
(salt  of  tartar)  six  grains  ;  of  oil  of  almonds  one  ounce ; 
of  essence  of  bergamotte  two  drachms  ;  of  rose  water  three 
ounces;  of  orange-flower-water  twro  drachms.  Shake  them 
together. 

FRENCH  POLISH.  Take  of  seed  lac  six  ounces ;  of 
gum  juniper  one  ounce  and  a  half;  of  gum  mastic  one 
ounce ;  of  rectified  spirit  of  wine  thirty-two  ounces. 

Let  all  the  ingredients  be  reduced  to  a  coarse  powder, 
and  then  mix  them  with  the  rectified  spirit  of  wine  in  a 
vessel  which  wall  contain  double  the  quantity,  in  order  that 
on  being  exposed  to  the  moderate  heat  of  a  sand  bath,  or 
other  moderate  heat,  room  may  be  given  for  the  expansion 
of  the  spirit  without  bursting  the  vessel.  The  mixture 
should  be  well  shaken  every  day,  taking  care  to  loosen  the 
cork  during  the  shaking :  a  few  days  will  be  sufficient  to 
dissolve  all  the  resins.  The  application  of  this  varnish  is 
well  known.  See  Tingry’s  Varnislier's  Guide,  third 
edition,  1832,  page  141. 

TO  MAKE  NEW  MAHOGANY  OF  A  DARKER 
COLOUR.  Make  a  paste  with  quick  lime  and  water  and 
cover  the  mahogany  with  it,  laying  it  on  with  a  brush  ;  a 
few  minutes  wall  be  sufficient  to  alter  the  colour  materially ; 
the  longer  it  remains  on  the  -wood  the  darker  it  will  become. 
It  should  be  removed  carefully,  but  not  be  washed  off;  the 
mahogany  should  be  afterwards  well  rubbed. 

For  a  slight  red  stain  for  mahogany  see  Furniture- 
Balls  forwards. 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


453 


TO  TAKE  INK  STAINS  OUT  OF  MAHOGANY. 
Wash  first  the  stain  well  with  soap  and  water,  in  order  to 
abstract  as  much  as  possible  the  oil  and  other  matters  with 
which  the  surface  is  loaded  ;  then  apply,  upon  the  stain 
only,  some  pretty  strong  spirits  of  vitriol,  as  described 
above — spirits  of  salts  or  nitric  acid ;  let  it  remain  on 
the  part  sufficiently  long  to  abstract  the  ink.  If  the  part, 
after  being  well  washed  with  water,  should  be  lighter  than 
the  general  colour  of  the  mahogany,  an  application  of  the 
paste  mentioned  in  the  last  article  will  deepen  it. 

PASTE  for  common  purposes  may  be  made  by  simply 
mixing  flour  and  water  into  a  thin  pap  and  then  pouring 
the  liquid  into  boiling  water  :  from  five  to  ten  minutes’ 


f  filing  wall  be  sufficient  to  make  the  paste  ready  for  use. 
o  prevent  it  from  being  lumpy  the  flour  should  be  mixed 
ith  a  little  cold  water,  in  the  first  place,  into  a  thick 
dough,  and  be  thinned  by  adding  gradually  the  water  to  it. 
If  you  desire  to  make  the  paste  particularly  dry  mg,  half 
an  ounce  of  alum  to  a  pint  of  paste  may  be  dissolved  in  the 
water  before  putting  the  flour  to  it ;  and  if  you  desire  to 
fimake  it  very  adhesive,  half  an  ounce  of  glue  may  be  al¬ 
lowed  to  each  pint  of  paste.  The  glue  should  be  previously 
dissolved  in  the  water  before  the  flour  is  added  to  it. 

FLY  WATER.  Dissolve  one  ounce  of  powdered  white 
arsenic  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  to  which  add  an  ounce 
-of  sugar.  Of  this  the  flies  will  sip  and  die  almost  imme¬ 
diately ;  but  we  doubt  much  whether  any  benefit  can  be 
derived  from  this  practice,  as  the  liquor  proves  very  attrac¬ 
tive,  and  hence  is  a  constant  temptation  to  flies  to  sip  of  it, 
dnd  thus  their  numbers  are  considerably  increased.  It 
should  not  be  forgotten  besides  that  arsenic  is  a  virulent 
poison,  and  its  solution  ought  to  be  placed  out  of  the  possi¬ 
bility  of  being'  used  by  mistake  or  by  children. 

TO  LOOSEN  THE  STOPPERS  OF  GLASS 
BOTTLES.  The  stoppers  of  glass  bottles  generally  be¬ 
come  fixed  by  some  resinous  or  gummy  matter  attached  to 
them  ;  and  sometimes  by  merely  being  pressed  into  the 
neck  too  tight.  In  the  last  case,  gently  tapping  the  top  of 
the  stopper  with  a  bit  of  hard  wood,  as  a  hammer,  will 
frequently  answer  the  purpose.  In  the  first  case,  sometimes 
|  exposing  the  neck  of  the  bottle  to  heat  before  the  fire  will 


454 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


do  it;  at  others,  immersing1  it  for  a  few  minutes  in  warm 
water,  heat  expanding  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  and  the 
water  besides  dissolving  in  part  the  gummij  matter.  But  if 
it  be  resinous,  an  immersion  of  the  neck  of  the  bottle  for  a 
few  minutes  in  proof  spirit,  or  rectified  spirit  made  warm,  at 
the  same  time  that  the  neck  of  the  bottle  is  also  made  warm, 
may  effectuate  the  object.  In  all  cases  attention  must  be 
paid  to  the  contents  of  the  bottle,  which  if  ardent  spirits, 
ether,  or  rectified  spirits  of  wine,  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  expose  the  bottle  to  great  heat,  or  the  bottle  may  burst. 

TO  PREVENT  FIRE  IRONS  FROM  RUSTING, 
they  should  be  either  anointed  with  sweet  olive  oil  and  ex¬ 
cluded  as  much  as  possible  from  the  air ;  or  be  rubbed  over 
with  sweet  and  well  purified  mutton  suet :  some  shake 
over  them  in  addition  unslaked  lime  in  powder.  Rancid 
oil  or  rancid  suet  will  cause  them  to  rust. 

STAINS  CAUSED  BY  ACIDS,  on  silk,  &c.  may  in 
general  be  taken  out  by  simply  wetting  the  part  with  water, 
then  rubbing1  on  it  subcarbonate  of  potash  (salt  of  tartar). 
When  the  colour  is  restored,  the  salt  may- be  washed  away 
with  cold  water. 

PAINTED  FLOOR-CLOTHS,  to  be  durable,  should 
be  chosen  the  colours  of  which  have  been  laid  on  a  long 
time.  Of  those  which  look  most  fresh  and  brilliant  the 
paint  generally  wears  off  very  soon,  more  especially  if 
washed  with  soap  and  water.  They  are  very  often  used  for 
staircases;  but  when  much  used,  they  soon  wear  out;  and 
we  know  of  no  means  of  repairing  them :  for  staircases, 
therefore,  woollen  carpets  are  much  to  be  preferred. 

POT  POURR1,  or  PRESERVED  FLOWERS.  We 
have  seen,  under  Rose  Water,  page  412,  the  best  method 
of  preserving  the  aroma  of  that  elegantly- scented  flower  the 
Rose;  we  cannot  doubt,  therefore,  that  the  aroma  of  some 
other  flowers  can  be  preserved  in  a  similar  way.  Hence 
the  various  directions  in  our  books  for  Pot  Pourri.  But 
it  is  not  all  sweet  smelling  flowers  which  will  bear  bruising 
like  the  rose,  and  therefore  some  of  them  must  be  treated 
in  a  more  delicate  way ;  the  violet,  for  example,  will  not 
bear  bruising — its  aromatic  emanation  is  too  fugacious : 
who  expects  to  find  its  delicate  aroma  in  a  syrup  of  the 
violet ?  which,  in  truth,  is  good  for  nothing  but  for  its 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


455 


ourple  colour.  Who  could  expect  to  find  in  one  species  of 
;he  flower  de  luce,  when  the  flower  is  bruised  and  preserved 
.vith  salt,  that  faint  yet  elegant  smell  which,  when  in 
ilossom  on  its  stalk,  it  gives  out  to  those  whose  olfactory 
lerves  are  of  the  most  exquisite  and  discriminating  kind  ? 
3r  who  expects  to  find  the  emanation  of  the  flower  of  the 
asmine  diffusing  itself  when  bruised  in  a  pot  pourri  ? 
Vet  fortunately  for  this  last,  storax  and  other  resins  con¬ 
fining  the  benzoic  acid  supply  the  smell  of  the  jasmine 
n  tolerable  perfection.  Hence  we  find,  among  other  in¬ 
gredients  of  a  pot  pourri,  roses,  violets,  jasmine,  and  orange 
lowers;  orris  root,  (which  well  supplies  the  aroma  of  the 
dolet,)  storax,  benjamin,  musk ,  angelica  root ;  clove-july 
lowers,  lavender,  rosemary,  lemon  peel,  cloves,  marjoram, 
balm  of  gilead,  lemon  thyme,  mints,  &c.  &c.  All,  or  as 
nany  of  which  as  you  shall  choose,  are  to  be  mixed  toge- 
her  and  strew'ed  in  layers  in  a  suitable  vessel,  a  china  vase, 
)r  other  jar,  having  a  cover  wffiich  fits  tight,  with  alternate 
;ayers  of  bay  salt  till  the  vessel  is  full,  so  that  when  the 
mver  is  taken  olf  an  aroma  of  such  mixed  scents  will  be 
liffused  over  the  apartment. 

Note,  that  the  gums  and  other  resins,  as  well  as  the  orris, 
tngelica  root,  and  cloves,  must  be  powdered.  The  petals 
)f  all  the  flowers  must  be  separated  from  the  calyxes,  but  let 
.lot  one  of  them  be  bruised  except  the  roses. 

SILK  OR  CLOTH  DAUBED  WITH  PAINT  may 
je  freed  from  it  by  soaking  the  part  daubed  in  oil  of  turpen- 
;ine,  and  washing,  as  it  wrere,  the  paint  out.  Care  must, 
aow'ever,  be  taken  that  the  oil  of  turpentine  has  no  affinity 
for  the  colour  of  the  cloth,  or  that  may  also  be  discharged.  It 
s  best,  therefore,  to  make  an  experiment  on  a  bit  of  the  cloth 
with  the  turpentine  first  before  it  is  applied  to  the  garment. 

Note,  that  the  sooner  after  the  accident  the  paint  is  got 
aut  the  better,  for  if  it  be  suffered  to  get  dry  it  is  often  im¬ 
possible  to  remove  it  without  destroying  the  cloth. 

FURNITURE  BALLS.  Take  one  pint  of  linseed  oil, 
into  which  put  two  ounces  of  alkanet  root ;  let  them  stand 
on  the  hot  hob  of  a  fire-place  for  twenty-four  hours,  or  till 
the  colouring  matter  of  the  root  is  imparted  to  the  oil ;  melt 
then  eighteen  ounces  of  yellow  wax,  with  two  ounces  of 
yellow  resin,  add  the  linseed  oil  to  the  melted  mixture,  and 


456 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


stir  it  till  it  is  cold ;  or,  when  it  is  just  cold  enough  to  run, 
it  may  be  poured  into  suitable  moulds  if  you  choose. 

Note,  that  linseed  oil,  coloured  with  alkanet  root,  as 
above,  makes  a  convenient  stain  to  rub  on  mahogany  and 
other  woods  where  only  a  slightly  red  colour  is  wanted. 

NANKIN  DYE.  Take  of  annatto  and  salt  of  tartar 
of  each  two  ounces  ;  dissolve  them  in  a  pint  or  less  of  boiling- 
water.  The  proportion  of  annatto  must  be  added  or  di¬ 
minished  according  as  the  colour  of  the  cloth  or  other  ma¬ 
terial  is  wanted  deep  or  light. 

LIQUID  BLUE.  Pour  upon  one  ounce  of  good  indigo 
four  ounces  of  sulphuric  acid  (oil  of  vitriol)  in  a  stone  jar, 
which  place  in  a  water-bath,  and  subject  the  jar  to  a  boiling- 
heat  till  the  indigo  is  dissolved,  then  add  to  the  solutior 
twelve  ounces  of  water.  It  should  be  kept  in  a  glass  bottle 
having  aground-glass  stopper. 

Note,  that  this  is  what  is  called  a  substantive  dye  ;  silk, 
such  as  ribbon,  &c.  immersed  in  it,  becomes,  in  a  few 
minutes,  of  a  beautiful  blue  colour,  provided  it  be  not 
charged  with  other  incongruous  colouring  matter. 

Those  who  desire  to  obtain  more  information  concern¬ 
ing  Dyeing  may  consult  Packer’s  Dyer’s  Guide, 
second  edition  of  1830,  a  work  to  which  they  will  not  apply 
in  vain. 

PLATE  POWDER  may  be  made  in  various  ways. 
Some  use  quicksilver  rubbed  with  powdered  or  prepared 
chalk  in  a  marble  mortar  till  it  wholly  disappears,  and  the 
mixture  becomes  of  a  greyish  colour:  the  proportion  may 
be  three  ounces  of  quicksilver  to  five  ounces  of  chalk.  But 
many  persons  disapprove  of  this  as  a  plate  powder — they 
say  that  it  renders  the  silver  brittle.  Others  use  polishers’ 
putty,  prepared  burnt  harshorn,  and  prepared  chalk  in 
about  equal  quantities  ;  others  use  the  prepared  burnt  harts¬ 
horn  alone  ;  or  they  make  a  thin  pap  with  that  and  water, 
soak  white  rags  in  it  and  dry  them  ;  they  thus  become  a  sort 
of  very  fine  sand-rag.  Or  levigated  oxide  of  tin,  commonly 
called  prepared  putty,  may  be  employed.  Shammy  leather 
is  the  article  with  which  most  plate  polishes  should  be  ap¬ 
plied  ;  certain  parts  of  plate  will,  however,  require  a  soft 
brush  •,  a  very  fine-washed  emery  powder  may  also  be  em¬ 
ployed.  Some  use  whiting  or  prepared  chalk. 


USEFUL  RECIPES.  457 


Note,  that  some  use  purple  brown,  or  other  finely  levi- 
gated  oxide  of  iron,  only  for  plate  powder ;  certain  parts  of 
plate  will,  however,  require  a  soft  brush. 

A  good  way  to  clean  plate  is  to  boil  an  ounce  each  of 
cream  of  tartar,  muriate  of  soda  (common  salt),  and  alum 
and  the  plate  in  a  gallon  or  more  of  water.  After  the 
plate  is  taken  out  and  rubbed  dry  it  puts  on  a  beautiful 
silvery  whiteness,  giving  the  appearance  of  new  silver. 

LIQUIDS  FOR  BOOT-TOPS  consist  of  several  kinds. 
Une  is  made  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  oxalic  acid  in  a  pint 
or  more  of  rain  or  other  soft  water,  to  which  are  added  an 
ounce  or  two  of  finely-levigated  pumice  stone.  This 
mixture  must  be  well  scrubbed  upon  the  tops  with  a  hard 
brush,  then  the  tops  must  be  well  sponged  with  water  and 
dried  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire  :  this  process  will  make  the 
tops  white. 


If  you  desire  the  tops  brown,  they  must  not  be  scrubbed 
with  a  brush  ;  but  all  stains  being  removed  by  the  applica¬ 
tion  of  the  liquid,  the  tops  must  be  well  sponged  with  water 
and  highly  polished  by  rubbing  with  flannel. 

Or,  take  of  sour  milk,  one  pint  and  half;  of  sulphuric 

aC  i  i  °ire  °UnCe  ’  °f  comPound  sPirit  of  lavender,  one  ounce 
and  half;  of  gum  arabic,  half  an  ounce;  of  lemon  iuice 
one  ounce :  mix  them.  J  ’ 

Note,  that  Oxalic  Acid  is  a  powerful  poison ;  from 
the  carelessness  with  which  it  is  kept  it  is  sometimes  mis- 
taken  for  purging  salts,  and  has  often  produced  death.  See 
our  Table  of  Poisons,  page  444. 

BLACK  BEETLES  and  CRICKETS.  Take  one 
ounce  of  levigated  arsenic  and  half  a  pound  of  fine-powdered 
loaf  sugar,  mix  them  well,  spread  it  over  a  plate,  and  place 
it  where  crickets  and  black  beetles  can  get  at  it.  [Takino- 
care  to  remove  it  in  the  morning,  as  it  is  rank  poison. ] 
Condensed  Ginger  Powder  for  Ginger  Beer. 

Take  one  pound  of  the  finest  refined  sugar  in  coarse 
powder,  thirteen  drachms  of  highly  exsiccated  carbonate 
of  soda,  two  drachms  and  four  grains  of  the  finest  Jamaica 
ginger  in  powder,  and  thirteen  drachms  of  highly  exsic¬ 
cated  tartaric  acid.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  thirty- 
two  tumbler  glasses.  It  should  be  kept  in  a  perfectly  dry 
wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  lightly  corked.  If  the  acid  and 

x 


USEFUL  RECIPES. 


458 

the  alkali  are  not  fully  deprived  of  their  water  of  crystalli¬ 
zation  by  exsiccation,  spontaneous  effervescence  will  ensue, 
and  the  powder  become  spoiled  ;  therefore  great  caution  is 
necessary  in  purchasing-  the  articles. 

To  make  portable  Effervescing  Lemonade. 

Take  two  hundred  and  forty  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda, 
thirty-six  drachms  of  powdered  refined  sugar,  and  fifteen 
drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  all  rubbed  together,  and 
divided  into  twelve  parts,  to  be  wrapped  in  blue  paper. 

Six  drachms  of  tartaric  acid  in  twelve  white  papers. 

When  used,  make  a  solution  of  one  of  the  powders  in 
blue  paper  first  in  a  tumbler  of  cold  spring-water,  then  add 
the  acid  from  the  white  paper,  and  stir  it  briskly  to  produce 
violent  effervescence. 

Zest  for  Gravies. 

Take  of  powdered  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  sage,  and 
savoury,  each  two  drachms,  cayenne  in  powder  half  an 
ounce,  angelica  in  powder  one  drachm,  and  coriander  seeds 
two  drachms,  to  be  well  mixed  together.  This  zest  will  be 
found  much  superior  to  that  recommended  by  Kitchener. 

Piquant  Sauce. 

Take  two  ounces  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  pint  of  brown 
vinegar,  and  an  ounce  each  of  soy  and  port  wine  ;  let  these 
ingredients  stand  and  macerate  for  a  few  weeks,  then 
strain,  and  bottle  for  use. 

To  preserve  and  flavour  Hams  and  Tongues. 

Take  two  ounces  each  of  bay  salt  and  coarse  brown 
sugar,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  Cambrian  essence,  for  a 
tongue,  and  a  quantity  larger  in  proportion  for  a  ham. 

A  good  pickling  salt  is  made  with  equal  parts  of  brown 
sugar  and  bay  salt. 

Lemon  pickle  is  made  with  equal  proportions  of  lemon 
juice  and  vinegar,  salted  and  spiced  to  palate. 


A  Table  of  Expenses,  Income,  or  Wages,  showing 
at  one  view  what  any  sum,  from  one  •pound  to  one  hundred 
pounds  per  annum ,  is  per  calendar  month,  week,  or  day. 

As,  however,  some  fractions  are  omitted  in  this  Table, 
of  no  great  moment  certainly,  yet  to  be  exact,  even  to  the 
slightest  fraction,  is  sometimes  of  consequence,  the  follow¬ 
ing  rules,  which  are  invariable,  may  be  very  soon  committed 
to  memory. 

The  farthings  in  each  week  will  make  appear 
The  shillings  and  the  pence  spent  in  the  year. 

For  example,  two  farthings  a  week  is  two  shillings  and 
twopence  a-year. 

Again, 

Number  the  pennies  of  each  day’s  expense. 

So  many  pounds,  angels,  groats,  and  pence. 

You  spend  within  the  year’s  circumference. 

Thus — 2d.  per  day  will  make  two  pounds,  two  angels, 
two  groats,  and  two  pence ;  or  the  whole  three  pounds 
and  ten  pence.  We  see,  however,  by  our  table,  that  three 
guineas  is  set  down  to  be  2d.  a-day,  whereas  this  sum  is 
more  than  2d.  a-day,  although  the  fractions  cannot  be  set 
down  in  the  table. 


460  TABLE  OF  EXPENSES,  INCOME,  OR  WAGES 


Per  Year. 

Per  Month. 

Per  Week. 

Per  Day. 

£ 

S. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

£ 

s 

d. 

£ 

s.  d. 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

8 

0 

0 

4* 

0 

0  0$ 

1 

10 

0 

0 

2 

6 

0 

0 

7 

0 

0  1 

2 

0 

0 

0 

3 

4 

0 

0 

H 

0 

0  14 

2 

2 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

0 

9f 

0 

0  14 

2 

10 

0 

0 

4 

2 

0 

o  114 

0 

0  If 

3 

0 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

1 

H 

0 

0  2 

3 

3 

0 

0 

5 

3 

0 

1 

2  4 

0 

0  2 

3 

10 

0 

0 

5 

10 

0 

1 

4* 

0 

0  24 

4 

0 

0 

0 

6 

8 

0 

1 

6* 

0 

0  24 

4 

4 

0 

0 

7 

0 

0 

1 

7§ 

0 

0  2f 

4 

10 

0 

0 

7 

6 

0 

1 

8f 

0 

0  3 

5 

0 

0 

0 

8 

4 

0 

1 

11 

0 

0  34 

5 

5 

0 

0 

8 

6 

0 

2 

n 

0 

0  34 

5 

10 

0 

0 

9 

2 

0 

2 

1* 

0 

0  3f 

6 

0 

0 

0 

10 

0 

0 

2 

H 

0 

0  4 

6 

6 

0 

0 

10 

6 

0 

2 

5 

0 

0  44 

6 

10 

0 

0 

10 

10 

0 

2 

6 

0 

0  44 

7 

0 

0 

0 

11 

8 

0 

2 

8i 

0 

0  44 

7 

7 

0 

0 

12 

3 

0 

2 

10 

0 

0  4f 

7 

10 

0 

0 

12 

6 

0 

2 

10| 

0 

0  5 

8 

0 

0 

0 

13 

4 

0 

3 

1 

0 

0  54 

8 

8 

0 

0 

14 

0 

0 

3 

2f 

0 

0  54 

S 

10 

0 

0 

14 

2 

0 

3 

3* 

0 

0  54 

9 

0 

0 

0 

15 

0 

0 

3 

5§ 

0 

0  6 

9 

9 

0 

0 

15 

9 

0 

3 

H 

0 

0  64 

10 

0 

0 

0 

16 

8 

0 

3 

10 

0 

0  64 

10 

10 

0 

0 

17 

6 

0 

4 

Of 

0 

0  7 

11 

0 

0 

0 

18 

4 

0 

4 

3 

0 

0  74 

11 

11 

0 

0 

19 

3 

0 

4 

5* 

0 

0  74 

12 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

4 

74 

0 

0  8 

12 

12 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

4 

10 

0 

0  84 

13 

0 

0 

1 

1 

8 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0  84 

13 

13 

0 

1 

2 

9 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0  9 

14 

0 

0 

1 

3 

4 

0 

5 

4| 

0 

0  94 

14 

14 

0 

1 

4 

6 

0 

5 

8 

0 

0  94 

15 

0 

0 

1 

5 

0 

0 

5 

9 

0 

0  10 

15 

15 

0 

1 

6 

3 

0 

6 

04 

0 

0  104 

16 

0 

0 

1 

6 

8 

0 

6 

2 

0 

0  104  . 

16 

16 

0 

1 

8 

0 

0 

0 

54 

0 

0  11 

17 

0 

0 

1 

8 

4 

0 

0 

c§ 

0 

0  114 

17 

17 

0 

1 

9 

0 

0 

6  101 

0 

0  114 

18 

0 

0 

1 

10 

0 

0 

6 

11 

0 

0  114 

18 

18 

0 

1 

11 

6 

0 

7 

3 

0 

1  04 

19 

0 

0 

1 

11 

8 

0 

7 

34 

0 

1  04 

20 

0 

0 

1 

13 

4 

0 

7 

8 

0 

1  14 

30 

0 

0 

2 

10 

0 

0 

11 

6 

0 

1  74 

40 

0 

0 

3 

6 

8 

0 

15 

44 

0 

2  24 

50 

0 

0 

4 

3 

4 

0 

19 

3 

0 

2  9 

60 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

1 

3 

Of 

0 

3  3i 

70 

0 

0 

5 

16 

8 

1 

6 

11 

0 

3  10 

80 

0 

0 

6 

13 

4 

1 

10 

9 

0 

4  44 

90 

0 

0 

7 

10 

0 

1 

14 

74 

0 

4  11 

100 

0 

0 

8 

6 

8 

1 

18 

54 

0 

5  5f 

MARKETING  TABLES, 


Showing  the  amount  of  any  number  of  pounds,  yards,  &c. 
at  any  price,  from  1  farthing  to  1  or  2  shillings ;  as  for 
example: — You  purchase  9  pounds  of  meat  at  10  pence 
3  farthings  per  pound  ;  what  is  the  amount  ?  Look  in  the 
column  under  the  head  1 0  pence,  and  on  a  line  with  9  pounds 
in  the  first  column,  you  will  find  the  amount  to  be  7s.  6d. ; 
then  look  in  the  column  under  the  head  3  farthings ;  and 
on  a  line  with  9  pounds,  as  before,  you  will  find  6  pence 
3  farthings ;  these  two  sums  added  together  make  8  shil¬ 
lings  and  three  farthings,  and  so  of  all  the  rest,  in  cases 
where  farthings  occur.  And  should  the  price  of  the 
goods  be  1  shilling  and  9  pence,  or  1  shilling  and  10  pence 
farthing  per  pound,  &c.,  by  adding  two  or  three  sums 
together  in  the  same  manner,  these  Tables  will  shew  the 
amount  required,  for  that  or  any  other  price,  as  high  as 
2  shillings. 

Note,  that  what  is  called  the  great  hundred,  or  in  com¬ 
mon  language  one  hundred  weight,  is  one  hundred  and 
twelve  pounds  ;  that  a  quarter  of  a  hundred  is  28  pounds, 
half  a  hundred  56  pounds;  and  three  quarters  of  a  hun¬ 
dred  84  pounds ;  that  a  score  is  20  pounds ;  and  that  a 
stone  of  meat  in  London  is  8  pounds :  but  it  varies  in  many 
other  parts  of  the  empire. 


462  MARKETING  TABLES. 


From  One  Farthing  to  Five  Pence  per  Pound,  §c. 


No.  of 
Pounds, 
Yards, 
&c. 

One 

Farth. 

Half¬ 

penny 

Three 

Farths. 

One 

Penny. 

Two 

Pence. 

Three 

Pence. 

Four 

Pence. 

Five 

Pence. 

s . 

d. 

S, 

d. 

S' 

d. 

s. 

d. 

s. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d 

£ 

s . 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

2 

0 

0§ 

0 

1 

0 

H 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

10 

3 

0 

0| 

0 

1* 

0 

2k 

0 

2 

0 

6 

0 

0 

9 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

3 

4 

0 

1 

0 

2 

0 

3 

0 

3 

0 

8 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

4 

0 

1 

8 

5 

0 

H 

0 

2  h 

0 

H 

0 

5 

0 

10 

0 

1 

3 

0 

1 

8 

0 

2 

1 

6 

0 

H 

0 

3 

0 

4  h 

0 

6 

1 

0 

0 

1 

6 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

6 

7 

0 

11 

0 

H 

0 

5i 

0 

7 

1 

2 

0 

1 

9 

0 

2 

4 

0 

2 

11 

8 

0 

2 

0 

4 

0 

6 

0 

8 

1 

4 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

8 

0 

3 

4 

9 

0 

H 

0 

4  h 

0 

0 

9 

1 

6 

0 

2 

3 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

9 

10 

0 

H 

0 

5 

0 

n 

0 

10 

1 

8 

0 

2 

6 

0 

3 

4 

0 

4 

2 

11 

0 

H 

0 

5§ 

0 

8* 

0 

11 

1 

10 

0 

2 

9 

0 

3 

8 

0 

4 

7 

12 

0 

3 

0 

6 

0 

9 

1 

0 

2 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

5 

0 

13 

0 

H 

0 

0 

9| 

1 

1 

2 

2 

0 

3 

3 

0 

4 

4 

0 

5 

5 

14 

0 

H 

0 

7 

0 

10i 

1 

2 

2 

4 

0 

3 

6 

0 

4 

8 

0 

5 

10 

15 

0 

34 

0 

n 

0 

111 

1 

3 

2 

6 

0 

3 

9 

0 

5 

0 

0 

6 

3 

16 

0 

4 

0 

8 

1 

0 

1 

4 

2 

8 

0 

4 

0 

0 

5 

4 

0 

6 

8 

17 

0 

41 

4 

0 

8* 

1 

1 

5 

2 

10 

0 

4 

3 

0 

5 

8 

0 

7 

1 

18 

0 

H 

0 

9 

1 

i* 

1 

6 

3 

0 

0 

4 

6 

0 

6 

0 

0 

7 

6 

19 

0 

4| 

0 

9§ 

1 

24 

1 

7 

3 

2 

0 

4 

9 

0 

6 

4 

0 

7 

11 

20 

0 

54 

0 

10 

1 

3 

1 

8 

3 

4 

0 

5 

0 

0 

6 

8 

0 

8 

4 

21 

0 

H 

0 

104 

1 

3§ 

1 

9 

3 

6 

0 

5 

3 

0 

7 

0 

0 

8 

9 

22 

0 

5i 

0 

11 

1 

4i- 

1 

10 

3 

8 

0 

5 

6 

0 

7 

4 

0 

9 

2 

23 

0 

H 

0 

11J 

1 

64 

1 

11 

3 

10 

0 

5 

9 

0 

7 

8 

0 

9 

'7 

24 

0 

6 

1 

0 

1 

6 

2 

0 

4 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

10 

0 

25 

0 

H 

1 

OJ 

1 

64 

2 

1 

4 

2 

0 

G 

3 

0 

8 

4 

0 

10 

5 

26 

0 

1 

1 

1 

74 

2 

2 

4 

4 

0 

6 

6 

0 

8- 

8 

0 

10 

10 

27 

0 

6I 

1 

n 

1 

81 

2 

3 

4 

6 

0 

6 

9 

0 

9 

0 

0 

11 

3 

28 

0 

74 

l 

2 

1 

9 

2 

4 

4 

8 

0 

7 

0 

0 

9 

4 

0 

11 

8 

29 

0 

7i 

1 

21 

1 

9| 

2 

5 

4 

10 

0 

7 

3 

0 

9 

8 

0 

12 

1 

30 

0 

7h 

1 

3 

1 

10* 

2 

6 

5 

0 

0 

7 

6 

0 

10 

0 

0 

12 

6 

31 

0 

7s 

1 

d2 

1 

114 

2 

7 

5 

2 

0 

7 

9 

0 

10 

4 

0 

12 

11 

32 

0 

8“ 

l 

4 

2 

0 

2 

8 

5 

4 

0 

8 

0 

0 

10 

8 

0 

13 

4 

33 

0 

8* 

1 

di 

2 

OJ 

2 

9 

5 

6 

0 

8 

3 

0 

11 

0 

0 

13 

9 

34 

0 

8£ 

1 

5 

2 

14 

2 

10 

5 

8 

0 

8 

6 

0 

11 

4 

0 

14 

2 

35 

0 

8i 

1 

51 

2 

2i 

2 

11 

5 

10 

0 

8 

9 

0 

11 

8 

0 

14 

7 

36 

0 

94 

1 

6 

2 

3 

3 

0 

6 

0 

0 

9 

0 

0 

12 

0 

0 

15 

0 

37 

0 

H 

1 

61 

2 

34 

3 

1 

6 

2 

0 

9 

3 

0 

12 

4 

0 

15 

5 

38 

0 

l 

7 

2 

3 

2 

6 

4 

0 

9 

6 

0 

12 

8 

0 

15 

10 

39 

0 

91 

1 

7h 

2 

5i 

3 

3 

6 

6 

0 

9 

9 

0 

13 

0 

0 

16 

3 

40 

0 

io4 

1 

8 

2 

6 

3 

4 

6 

8 

0 

10 

0 

0 

13 

4 

0 

16 

8 

41 

0 

IOjl 

1 

8i 

2 

6| 

3 

6 

6 

10 

0 

10 

3 

0 

13 

8 

0 

17 

1 

42 

0 

lol 

1 

9 

2 

3 

6 

7 

0 

0 

10 

6 

0 

11 

0 

0 

17 

6 

43 

0 

lol 

1 

9i 

2 

8i 

3 

7 

7 

2 

0 

10 

9 

0 

14 

4 

0 

17 

11 

44 

0 

ll4 

1 

10 

2 

9 

3 

8 

7 

4 

0 

11 

0 

0 

14 

8 

0 

18 

4 

45 

0 

Hi 

1 

101 

2 

9| 

3 

9 

7 

6 

0 

11 

3 

0 

15 

0 

0 

18 

9 

46 

0 

11* 

11 

2 

101 

3 

10 

7 

8 

0 

11 

6 

0 

15 

4 

0 

19 

2 

47 

0 

111 

111 

2 

114 

3 

11 

7 

10 

0 

11 

9 

0 

15 

8 

0 

19 

7 

48 

1 

o4 

2 

0 

3 

0 

4 

0 

8 

0 

0 

12 

0 

0 

16 

0 

l 

0 

0 

49 

1 

0i 

2 

01 

3 

04 

4 

1 

8 

2 

0 

12 

3 

0 

16 

4 

l 

0 

5 

50 

1 

0i 

2 

1 

3 

n 

4 

2 

8 

4 

0 

12 

6 

0 

16 

8 

1 

0 

10 

56 

1 

22 

2 

4 

3 

6 

4 

8 

9 

4 

0 

14 

0 

0 

18 

8 

1 

3 

4 

84 

l 

9 

3 

6 

5 

3 

7 

0 

14 

6 

l 

1 

0 

1 

8 

0 

l 

15 

0 

10C 

2 

1 

4 

2 

6 

3 

8 

4 

16 

8 

1 

5 

0 

l 

13 

4 

2 

1 

8 

112 

2 

4 

4 

8 

7 

0 

9 

4 

18 

8 

l 

8 

0 

1 

17 

4 

2 

6 

8 

MARKETING  TABLES.  463 


From  Sixpence  to  One  Shilling  per  Pound,  fyc. 


No.  of 
Pounds, 
Yards, 
&c. 

Six 

Pence. 

Seven 

Pence. 

Eight 

Pence. 

Nine 

Pence. 

Ten 

Pence. 

Eleven 

Pence. 

One 

Shilling. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d 

£ 

S. 

d. 

£ 

S. 

d 

£ 

s. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

£ 

5. 

d. 

2 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

2 

0 

l 

4 

0 

i 

e 

0 

1 

8 

1 

1 

10 

0 

2 

0 

3 

0 

1 

6 

0 

1 

9 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

3 

0 

2 

C 

0 

2 

9 

0 

3 

0 

4 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

4 

0 

2 

8 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

4 

0 

3 

8 

0 

4 

0 

5 

0 

2 

6 

0 

2 

11 

0 

3 

4 

0 

3 

9 

0 

4 

2 

0 

4 

7 

0 

5 

0 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

4 

0 

0 

4 

C 

9 

5 

0 

0 

5 

6 

0 

6 

0 

7 

0 

3 

G 

0 

4 

1 

0 

4 

s 

0 

5 

3 

0 

5 

10 

0 

6 

5 

0 

7 

0 

8 

0 

4 

0 

0 

4 

8 

0 

5 

4 

0 

6 

0 

0 

6 

8 

0 

7 

4 

0 

8 

0 

9 

0 

4 

6 

0 

5 

3 

0 

6 

0 

0 

G 

9 

0 

7 

C 

0 

8 

3 

0 

9 

0 

10 

0 

5 

0 

0 

5 

10 

0 

6 

8 

0 

7 

G 

0 

8 

4 

0 

9 

2 

0 

10 

0 

11 

0 

5 

6 

0 

6 

5 

0 

7 

4 

0 

8 

3 

0 

9 

2 

0 

10 

1 

0 

11 

0 

12 

0 

G 

0 

0 

7 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

9 

0 

0  lo 

0 

0 

11 

0 

0 

12 

0 

13 

0 

G 

G 

0 

7 

7 

0 

8 

8 

0 

9 

9 

0  10 

10 

0 

11 

11 

0 

13 

0 

14 

0 

7 

0 

0 

8 

2 

0 

9 

4 

0 

10 

G 

o  li 

8 

0 

12 

10 

0 

14 

0 

15 

0 

7 

6 

0 

8 

9 

0 

10 

0 

0 

11 

3 

0  12 

G 

0 

13 

9 

0 

15 

0 

1C 

0 

8 

0 

0 

9 

4 

0 

10 

8 

0 

12 

0 

0  13 

4 

0 

14 

8 

0 

1G 

0 

17 

0 

S 

6 

0 

9 

11 

0 

11 

4 

0 

12 

9 

0  14 

2 

0 

15 

7 

0 

17 

0 

18 

0 

9 

0 

0 

10 

G 

0 

12 

0 

0 

13 

e 

0  15 

0 

0 

16 

6 

0 

18 

0 

19 

0 

9 

G 

0 

11 

1 

0 

12 

8 

0 

14 

3 

0  15 

10 

0 

17 

5 

0 

19 

0 

20 

0 

10 

0 

0 

11 

8 

0 

13 

4 

0 

15 

0 

>  16 

8 

0 

18 

4 

1 

0 

0 

21 

0 

10 

6 

0 

12 

3 

0 

14 

0 

0 

15 

9 

)  17 

6 

0 

19 

3 

l 

1 

0 

22 

0 

11 

0 

0 

12 

10 

0 

14 

S 

0 

16 

0 

0  18 

4 

1 

0 

2 

1 

2 

0 

23 

0 

11 

G 

0 

13 

5 

0 

15 

4 

0 

17 

3 

0  19 

2 

1 

1 

1 

L 

3 

0 

24 

0 

12 

0 

0 

14 

0 

0 

16 

0 

0 

18 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

2 

0 

I 

4 

0 

2a 

0 

12 

G 

0 

14 

7 

0 

16 

8 

0 

18 

S 

1 

0 

10 

1 

2 

11 

1 

5 

0 

2G 

0 

13 

0 

0 

15 

2 

0 

17 

4 

0 

19 

6 

l 

1 

8 

1 

3 

10 

1 

6 

0 

27 

0 

13 

6 

0 

15 

9 

9 

18 

0 

1 

0 

3 

l 

2 

6 

l 

4 

9 

1 

7 

0 

28 

0 

14 

0 

0 

16 

4 

0 

18 

8 

1 

1 

0 

L 

3 

4 

l 

5 

8 

1 

8 

0 

29 

0 

14 

G 

0 

16 

11 

0 

19 

4 

1 

1 

9 

1 

4 

2 

l 

6 

7 

1 

9 

0 

30 

0 

15 

0 

0 

17 

G 

1 

0 

0 

1 

2 

6 

l 

5 

0 

l 

7 

6 

l 

10 

0 

31 

0 

15 

6 

0 

18 

1 

1 

0 

8 

1 

3 

3 

1 

5 

10 

1 

8 

5 

l 

11 

0 

32 

0 

1G 

0 

0 

18 

8 

1 

1 

4 

l 

4 

0 

L 

6 

8 

L 

9 

4 

l 

12 

0 

33 

0 

1G 

G 

0 

19 

3 

1 

2 

0 

l 

4 

9 

1 

7 

6 

1 

10 

3 

l 

13 

0 

34 

0 

17 

0 

0 

19 

10 

1 

2 

8 

1 

5 

C 

1 

8 

4 

l 

11 

2 

l 

11 

0 

35 

0 

17 

6 

1 

0 

5 

1 

3 

1 

1 

G 

3 

1 

9 

2 

1 

12 

1 

l 

15 

0 

30 

0 

18 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

4 

0 

1 

7 

0 

l 

10 

0 

l 

13 

0 

1 

16 

0 

37 

0 

18 

6 

l 

1 

7 

l 

4 

8 

1 

7 

9 

L 

10 

10 

l 

13 

11 

1 

17 

0 

38 

0 

19 

0 

l 

2 

2 

1 

5 

4 

1 

8 

6 

1 

11 

8 

l 

14 

10 

l 

18 

0 

39 

0 

19 

6 

1 

2 

9 

1 

6 

0 

l 

9 

3 

L 

12 

G 

l 

15 

9 

L 

19 

0 

40 

1 

0 

0 

l 

3 

4 

l 

6 

8 

1 

10 

0 

1 

13 

4 

l 

16 

8 

2 

0 

0 

41 

l 

0 

G 

1 

3 

11 

l 

7 

4 

l 

10 

9 

L 

14 

2 

l 

17 

7 

2 

1 

0 

42 

1 

1 

0 

1 

4 

6 

l 

8 

0 

l 

11 

C 

1 

15 

0 

1 

18 

G 

2 

2 

0 

43 

l 

1 

G 

1 

5 

1 

l 

8 

8 

1 

12 

3 

l 

15 

10 

1 

19 

5 

2 

3 

0 

44 

l 

2 

0 

1 

5 

8 

l 

9 

4 

1 

13 

0 

L 

1G 

8 

2 

0 

4 

2 

4 

0 

45 

1 

2 

6 

1 

6 

3 

1 

10 

0 

1 

13 

9 

1 

17 

6 

2 

1 

3 

2 

5 

0 

4G 

1 

3 

0 

1 

G 

10 

l 

10 

8 

1 

14 

G 

l 

18 

4 

2 

2 

2 

2 

6 

0 

47 

1 

3 

6 

1 

7 

6 

1 

11 

4 

1 

15 

3 

1 

19 

2 

2 

3 

1 

2 

7 

0 

48 

1 

4 

0 

l 

8 

0 

1 

12 

0 

1 

1G 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

4 

0 

2 

8 

0 

49 

1 

4 

6 

1 

8 

7 

l 

12 

8 

1 

16 

9 

2 

0 

10 

2 

4 

11 

2 

9 

0 

50 

1 

5 

0 

1 

9 

2 

1 

13 

4 

1 

17 

6 

2 

1 

8 

2 

5 

10 

2 

10 

0 

5G 

1 

8 

0 

l 

12 

8 

1 

17 

4 

2 

2 

0 

2 

6 

8 

2 

11 

4 

2 

16 

0 

84 

2 

2 

0 

2 

9 

0 

2 

16 

0 

3 

3 

0 

3 

10 

0 

3 

17 

0 

l 

4 

0 

100 

2 

10 

0 

2 

18 

4 

3 

G 

8 

3 

15 

0 

4 

3 

4 

4 

11 

8 

5 

0 

0 

112 

2 

16 

0 

3 

5 

4 

3 

14 

8 

4 

4 

0 

1 

13 

4 

5 

2 

8 

5 

12 

0 

JENNINGS’S  CODE  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 


THE  FAMILY  CYCLOPAEDIA; 

A  Dictionary  of  Useful  and  Necessary  Knowledge  in  Domestic 
Economy,  Agriculture,  Chemistry,  and  the  Arts;  including  the 
most  approved  Modes  of  Treatment  of  Diseases,  Accidents,  and 
Casualties. 

By  JAMES  JENNINGS,  Esq. 

In  one  large  Volume,  8vo.  price  £1.  7s.  in  boards. 

This  very  useful  work  contains  upwards  of  fourteen  hundred 
closely-printed  pages,  comprising  as  much  matter  as  is  frequently 
contained  in  six  ordinary  sized  volumes.  The  following  are  the 
opinions  of  the  Reviewers  on  its  merits  :  — 

“  As  a  book  of  daily  reference,  the  Family  Cyclopedia  is 
really  invaluable  ;  it  forms  a  portable  Library  of  Useful  Know¬ 
ledge,  of  easy  reference,  and  contains  a  great  variety  of  informa¬ 
tion  not  to  be  found  in  other  works  of  similar  pretensions,  and  of 
greater  magnitude.” 

“  It  contains  a  large  mass  of  information  on  subjects  connected 
with  the  Domestic  Economy  of  Life.  In  matters  of  Science  and 
the  Arts,  the  selections  are  all  from  sources  of  the  best  authority, 
and  treated  in  a  clear  and  familiar  manner.  As  a  book  of  daily 
reference  in  the  common  concerns  of  life,  its  great  practical  utility 
will,  no  doubt,  ensure  it  a  ready  introduction,  and  a  favourable  re¬ 
ception  in  every  intelligent  family.” 

“  The  able  manner  in  which  this  work  is  executed,  affords 
satisfactory  evidence  that  the  editor  is  thoroughly  acquainted  with 
the  subject.  It  is  a  valuable  multum  in  yarto.” 


A  VALUABLE  PRESENT  FOR  SERVANT  MAIDS. 

THE  FEMALE  SERVANT’S  GUIDE  AND  ADVISER; 

or,  The  Seiivice  Instructor. 

Illustrated  with  Plates,  exhibiting  the  Methods  of  setting  out 
Dinner  Tables,  price  3s. 

This  Work  has  an  emphatical  claim  to  the  sanction  of  Masters 
and  Mistresses,  as,  by  its  directions  and  instructions,  Servants 
are  enabled  to  perform  the  various  occupations  of  service  in  an 
efficient  and  a  satisfactory  manner,  and  are  informed  of  the 
methods  of  occasioning  large  saving  in  the  management  and  use 
nf  their  Employer’s  Household  Property  and  Provis  ons :  in  fact,  it 
embraces  the  interests  and  welfare  of  the  great  family  of  mankind — 
Masters  and  Servants. 

“  By  the  present  of  a  copy  of  the  Work  to  each  of  their  Ser¬ 
vants,  Employers  may  safely  calculate  on  the  saving  of  many 
pounds  a  year  in  their  expenditure.” — Taunton  Courier. 

London:  printed  for  Sherwood,  Gilbert,  and  Piper, 
Paternoster  Row. 


INDEX. 


Acid,  pure  acetic,  333, 336 
Acids,  202 

A-la-mode  beef,  129 
Ale,  quantity  of  malt  to  brew  a  barrel 
of,  381 

Almond  bon-bons,  318 

,  . cheese  cakes,  302 

[  |  . custards,  302 

Almonds,  milk  of,  311 

J  . Jordan,  311 

I  ;  . . confection  of,  311 

I  . bitter,  312 

Allspice,  187 

Anacreon  on  wine  and  company,  xi 

I  Anchovies,  Essence  of,  183 
Anchovy- sauce,  184 
Ancient  Cookery,  description  of,  in 
Homer’s  Odyssey,  ix 
Animal  food,  early  uses  of,  iii 

,  .  salting  of,  347,  349 

Apicii,  the,  great  gourmands,  xiv 
Appennines,  animals  of  the,  xxiv 
|  Apple-pie,  274 

[  J  . pudding,  21>6 

I  jj  . dumplings,  256 

I;  . sauce,  174 

i  Apples,  275 

I  . and  other  fruit,  to  keep,  356 

■  II  . for  tarts,  280 

|  . the  best  for  cyder,  389,  390 

I  .  the  great  harvest  for,  390 

I  ,  .  roasted,  431 

3  . decoction  of,  432 

Apricots,  281 

Ardent  spirits,  outcry  against,  386 
Aromatique  Vinaigre,  335,  336 
Arrow-root,  426 

Artichoke-bottoms  fricasseed,  112 

I  !  . ragout,  120 

Artichokes,  224 

l  ,,  .  boiled,  225 

. Jerusalem,  230 

Asparagus,  to  boil,  223 

I  !  .  ragout,  120 

Bacon,  the  best,  106 

1  ll  . uses  of,  106,  107 

M  j  . to  cure,  350 

W  |  . to  fry,  77 

. to  boil,  448 

Baking,  directions  for,  55 

|  . bread,  361 

i  . .  with  leaven,  367 

i  Balneum  malre,  or  water-bath  distilla¬ 
tion,  407 

Barbacued  pig,  14  1 


Barberries,  194 

. to  preserve,  343,  344 

Barley,  207 

. uses  of,  208 

.  prepared,  208 

. useof,  malted  &  unmalted,  375 

. water,  4,  5 

Basil,  194 
Bath-cakes,  291 
Batter,  to  mix,  247 

.  pudding,  251 

Bay,  193 
Beans,  211 

. kidney,  210 

. .  Windsor,  212 

. French,  220 

Beasts,  clean  and  unclean,  v 
Bechamel,  164 
Beef-a-la-mode,  129 

. a-la-daub,  130 

. a-l’Ecarlate,  134 

. to  boil  salt,  5,  6 

. an  isch  or  edge-bone  (economi¬ 
cal),  6 

. a  sirloin  in  epigram,  133 

. tremblant,  131 

. a-la-royal,  131 

. olives,  131 

. boulli,  132 

.  Portugal,  132 

. to  collar,  329 

. to  hash,  102 

.  to  roast,  42 

. brains,  141 

. en  marinade,  142 

.  broth,  37 

. gobbets,  91 

. hung,  353 

. potted,  325 

. ragout  of,  115 

. sausages,  355 

. scollops,  129 

. skirt,  165 

. steaks,  to  fry,  72 

. stewing  and  frying,  91 

.  rolled,  134 

. broiling,  64 

. steak -pie,  Q69 

. pudding,  269 

.  tea,  422 

Beer,  what,  376 

. how  to  brew  strong  and  small,  383 

. spruce,  387 

. ginger,  388 

. to  correct  acid,  389 


INDEX 


4  66 


Beet,  329 

. fricassee  of,  230 

.  sea-leaves  of,  220 

. root,  to  pickle,  344 

Beurre  de  Anchoise,  or  butter  of  an¬ 
chovies,  164 

. aux  fines  herbes,  165 

. de  piment,  164 

. noir,  or  black  butter,  165 

Bill  of  fare  by  Congreve,  xvii 
Bills  of  fare,  lxxxii 
Birds,  unclean,  iv 
Biscuit,  observations  on,  299 

. sponge,  297 

. Naples,  299 

.  Le  Man’s,  299 

. sweet,  300 

.  drop,  300 

. Somersetshire,  300 

Blackberries  and  dewberries,  278 
Blacking  balls,  449 

. liquid,  4.50 

Black-puddings,  259 
Blanc,  166 
Blancmange,  308 

. a  simple,  309 

. a  Dutch,  309 

Blister-plaster,  439s 
Blue,  liquid,  456 

Boiling,  general  directions  for,  l,  2 

. .  beef,  5 

.  fish,  12 

Bologna  sausages,  xxv,  355 
Bombarded  veal,  127 
Bon-bons,  nut,  318 

. almond,  318 

. lemon  or  orange,  319 

Bonne-bouche  for  gourmands,  240,  246 
Boot-tops,  liquid  for,  457 
Borage,  191 

Bottles,  to  loosen  the  stoppers  of,  453 
Braising,  what,  168 
Brandy,  how  obtained,  408 

. the  best  for  distilling  liqueurs, 

417 

. as  a  stimulant,  435 

. cherry,  raspberry,  and  other 

fruits,  414 
Brawn,  mock,  330 
Bread,  early  use  of,  vii 

. of  Vienna,  xxxvii 

.  importance  of  well-baking,  362, 

363 

. . grains  used  in  making,  362 

.  metropolitan,  363,  372 

. Dr.  Paris’s  opinion  of,  364 

. time  of  baking,  365 

. grain  employed  in,  366 

. use  of  potatoes  in,  366 

. sugar  in, 366 

. unleavened,  367 

. yeast  nr  leaven  in,  367 

. good,  for  a  family,  369,  370 

.  french,  371 

. potato,  372 

. kneading  of,  373 

. and  butter  pudding,  263 

. crumbs,  braised,  175 

. pudding,  250 

. sauce,  175 


Brewing,  general  observations  on, 
375 

. from  malt,  376 

. heat  of  water  for,  377 

. best  time  for,  378 

. water  for,  379 

. ingredients  used  in,  380,  381 

. ale,  381 

. strong  and  small  beer,  383 

.  porter,  384 

.  fining,  385 

Bride-cakes,  295 
Brill,  to  boil,  13 

Brisket  of  beef,  French  method  o 
stewing,  90 
Brocoli,  boiled,  221 
Broiling,  63 

Broth,  mutton,  veal,  chicken,  pork, 
423,  424 

. cheap  and  quickly  made,  36 

. mutton,  36 

. veal,  36 

. Scotch  barley,  36 

.  various,  36,  37 

Broths,  general  directions  for  making, 
27 


. to  thicken,  27 

. to  flavour,  27 

Browning,  to  make,  28 
Brown  stock  clear,  28 
Bubble  and  squeak,  77 
Bugs,  to  prevent,  450 
Buljace,  276 

Bullock’s  heart,  baked,  57 
Buns,  plain,  cross,  plum,  seed,  289 

. buttered,  290 

. Bath,  291 

. and  cakes,  observations  on,  287 

Butcher’s  meat,  baking  of,  56 
Butter,  first  mention  of,  iii 

. how  to  judge,  lxxv 

. to  purity  fresh,  23 

. to  purify  salt,  24 

. melted,  165 

.  and  sugar,  to  mix,  288 

Cabbage,  known  to  the  ancient  Greeks, 


. 221 

. boiled,  222 

.  to  pickle  red,  344 

. and  bacon,  to  fry,  77 

.  Dr.  Paris  on,  359 

. ragout,  121 

Cake,  a  Berkshire,  290 

. a  plum,  293 

. a  fermented  plum,  293 

. a  plum,  without  flour,  294 

. a  pound,  294 

. twelfth,  295 

Cakes,  to  bake  plum,  288 

. bread,  292 

. bride,  295 

.  Bristol,  296 

. Shrewsbury,  296 

.  Hyde- Park-Corner,  296 

. Diet  Bread,  296 

. rice,  296 

. queen,  296 

.  cheese,  301,  302 

. for  icings,  301 


INDEX 


467 


Calabria,  climate  and  produce  of,  xxiv 

.  animals  of,  ib. 

Calf’s  brains,  to  fry,  75 

. feet,  75 

.  fricasseed,  log 

. jelly,  309 

.  ragout  of,  1 18 

. head,  to  boil,  3 

.  to  hash, 4 

. to  bake,  4,  57 

. hashed,  102 

. potted,  330 

Calf’s  head,  to  roast,  43 

. stewed,  96 

. surprize,  125,  126 

Calf’s  heart,  baked,  58 
Calomel  pills,  434 
Camphor,  202 
Camp  vinegar,  337 
Candied  orange  chips,  317 

. and  lemon  peel,  317 

. ginger,  318 

Candies,  317 

Capers,  and  their  substitutes,  195 
Caper-sauce,  174 
Capillaire,  321 
Capon,  to  roast,  51 
Carraway-seeds,  192 
Carbonate  of  potash,  368 
Cardoon,  The,  225 

Carnival,  Shrove  Tuesday  the  end  of 
the,  xxviii 
Carp,  to  bake,  61 

. to  boil,  16 

. to  fry,  82 

. to  stew,  15 

Carrots,  228 

.  to  boil,  228 

Carving,  directions  for,  lxxxi,  lxxxviii 
Cassia,  188 

. buds,  188 

Castor  oil,  433 
Catchup,  walnut,  340 

.  mushroom,  342 

Caudle,  428 
Cauliflowers,  220 

.  preparing  for  boiling,  221 

.  and  cabbages  to  keep,  357, 

359 

.  to  pickle,  345 

.  ragout,  120 

Caviare,  how  to  make,  lxxiv 
Cayenne  pepper,  189 
Celery,  192 

. use  of  the  seeds,  26 

. sauce,  182 

Cervelas  fumes,  or  saveloys,  140 
Chamomile  flowers,  wild  best,  389 

.  tea,  429 

Cheese,  to  choose,  lxxvi 
Cheese-cakes,  301 

. potato  and  other,  301 

. lemon,  almond,  and 

bread, 302 

Chemical  processes,  361 
Cherries,  276 

. to  preserve,  316 

Cherry-brandy,  414 

. laurel,  194 

Chervil,  194 


Chesnut  trees  of  Lucca,  xxv 
Chicken,  to  boil,  9 

. to  broil,  65 

. broth,  37,  423 

. fried,  76 

Chickens  cherinrathe,  147 

. a  la  braise,  147 

. with  lemon  sauce,  148 

. currie  of,  1 56 

. fricasseed,  1 1 1 

. to  roast,  52 

. to  stew,  96 

Chilblains,  applications  for,  441 
Chili  Vinegar,  336 
Chocolate,  237 
Chops,  to  broil,  65,  66 
Cinnamon,  188 

.  water,  224 

Citron,  the,  195 
Clary,  191 

Cleanliness,  necessity  of,  422 
Cloves,  187 

Clysters,  or  glysters,  439,  440 

. apparatus  for,  440 

Cocculus  indicus,  a  poison,  380 
Cochineal,  prepared,  418 
Cocoa,  237 
Cod,  to  boil,  13 

. head  and  shoulders,  14 

. sounds,  to  dress,  14 

. salt,  to  boil,  14 

. broiling,  66 

. to  stew,  99 

. American  method  for  boiling  salt, 

15 

.  ’s  head, to  bake,  60 

. roasted,  60 

. ’s  sounds,  broiled,  67 

. . . to  fricassee,  1  is 

Codlings,  to  boil,  18 
Coffee,  236 
Collared  eels,  331 

.  salmon,  mackerel,  and  other 

fish, 331 
Collaring,  328 

.  beef,  329 

.  veal,  329 

.  a  calf’s  head,  330 

.  a  side  of  venison,  330 

.  mock  brawn,  330 

Colouring  matter,  200 
Compote  of  cherries,  320 

. of  raspberries  and  other  fruits, 

321 

Compound  extract  of  colocynth  pills, 
434 

Condiments,  the  simple,  186 
Conserve  of  roses,  319 

.  ripe  fruits,  319 

.  apples,  pears,  quinces,  320 

Cookery,  influence  of,  xlv 

. of  the  early  ages,  xlvi 

Cool  tankard,  421 
Coriander  seeds,  192 
Corn,  consumption  of,  in  England,  xliit 
Coulis,  cullis,  or  thick  gravy,  167 

.  family,  167 

.  for  ragouts,  167 

.  for  fish,  167 

.  a  simple,  168 


468 


INDEX 


Cow-heels,  to  dress,  8 
Crab,  mock,  154 

. verjuice,  338 

Cranberries,  278 

Craw-fish  soup,  35 

Cray-fish,  to  stew,  100 

Cream,  injurious  qualities  of,  245,  288 

.  pudding,  252 

.  hartshorn,  ice,  304 

.  raspberry,  whipped,  305 

Creams,  303 

Creme  de  cedrats  distillees,  417 

. moka,  419 

Crimp  cod,  67 

Croute  au  pot,  230 

Cress,  the  pepper  or  garden,  233 

Crumpets,  292 

Cucumber,  the,  226 

. ragout,  121 

Cucumbers,  to  pickle,  345 

.  stew,  98 

Curd  puffs,  232 
Currant  jam,  307 
. jelly,  310 

. wine,  399 

Currants,  253 

. red, 277 

. black,  277 

. to  preserve,  315 

. to  preserve  red,  344 

Currie  powder,  170,  171 
Curries,  156 

Custards,  baked,  almond  and  plain,  302 

. orange  and  lemon, 303 

Cyder,  early  directions  for  making,  viil 

. the  best  apples  for,  389 

. process  of  making,  391 

. use  of  sugar  in,  392 

. ....merits  of  good,  392 

. Mr.  Phillip’s  Poem  on,  393 

Damson  puddings,  257 
Damsons,  dried,  318 

. . to  preserve,  315 

Dandelion,  234 
Dates,  245 

Diet  bread  cakes,  227 
Digester,  disadvantages  of  the,  86 
Dinners,  evil  of  late,  241 
Dish,  uneconomical,  56 
Distillation,  process  of,  405,  407 
Distilled  vinegar,  338 

. waters,  412 

Dried  fish,  boiling  of,  12 
Dripping  to  purify,  23 
Duck  a  la  mode,  148 

. a  la  braise,  148 

. a  la  Francoise,  148 

. to  boil,  10 

. with  pease,  97 

. to  roast,  51 

. . to  stew,  97 

. ..sauce  for,  ISO 

Dyspepsia,  meaning  of  the  word,  246 

Economical  fried  dishes,  77 

Eel  pie,  273 

....soup,  34 

Eels,  to  bake,  62 

. to  broil,  68 

. to  fricassee,  113,  1 14 

. to  fry, 83 


Eels,  to  kill,  and  boil,  18 

. collared,  33 1 

. potted,  327 

. spitchcocked,  63 

. stewed,  100 

. skinning,  63 

Egg-sauce,  172 
Eggs,  to  choose,  Ixxvi 

. and  bacon,  77 

. anecdote  of,  78 

. boiling  of,  21 

. hard,  unwholesome,  22,  116 

. for  salad,  1 16 

. poached,  22 

. the  most  unwholesome  method  of 

dressing,  22 

. fricasseed,  111 

. with  onions,  &c.  112 

Egyptian  cookery,  iii 

. food,  vi 

Elder,  ointment  of,  411 

. juice  of  ripe  berries,  441 

. wine.  400 

Endive,  233 

. ragout,  121 

English  cookery,  xl 

Entertainments,  the  first  regular,  ii,  iii 

. given  by  Solomon,  vii 

Epsom  salts,  433 
Esquebaugh,  418 
Essence  of  anchovies,  l S3 

. d’asaortiment,  163 

. d’ail,  or  garlic,  164 

. de  gibier,  164 

. de  volaille,  164 

. of  ham,  171 

. of  spruce, 388 

. of  vinegar,  335 

Extractive  matter,  200 
Farce  cuite,  159 
Fat  animals  deprecated,  xl 
Fat,  how  to  purify,  22,  24 

. uses  of  with  Hour,  207 

Fawn,  to  roast  a,  41 
Fennel,  192 
. sauce,  184 

Fermentation,  difference  between  the 
of  beer  and  cyder,  390 
Feet,  remarks  on  calves,  &c.  75 
Fetes,  splendid,  given  by  Fouis  XVIII, 
xxxi 

. by  the  National  Guard,  ib. 

. military,  at  Paris,  xxxii 

Figs,  244 

. toasted,  432 

Fining  malt  liquors,  385 
Fish,  clean  and  unclean,  v 

. eaten  by  the  Romans,  xviii 

. how  to  choose,  lxxii,  lxxv 

. baking, 62 

. . boiling,  12 

. broiling,  64 

. collared,  331 

. pickling,  346,  347 

. roasting,  54 

......to  fricassee,  112,  113 

. to  stew,  98,  99 

. liquor  for  stewing,  99 

. various,  potted,  327 

. sauces,  182 


INDEX 


469 


n  j 


lk 


Fish  soup,  stock  for,  34 
Flat  fish  and  flounders,  to  fricassee, 
Floor-cloths, painted,  454 
Florence  famous  for  oil,  xxv 
Florendine  rabbit,  152 

. hare,  152 

Florentines,  conviviality  of  the,  xxiv 
Flounders,  to  boil,  17 
Flour,  superiority  of  American,  370 
Flummery,  yellow,  308 

| . French,  310 

Fly-water,  453 

Foies  gras  or  fat  livers  how  obtained, 

XXX 

Food, preparations  of,  recorded  in  Scrip¬ 
ture,  ii 

[ . vegetable,  of  the  Jews,  v 

........  French  catalogue  of,  xxxiii 

Forcemeat-balls,  English,  158 
Forks,  silver,  241,242 
Fowl  a  la  braise,  146 

. . forced,  146 

. marinaded,  146 

. to  boil,  9 

;  [ . to  roast,  51 

i . to  stew,  96 

. . stuffing  for,  52 

. . sauces  for,  180 

Fowls,  trussing,  lxxix 
French  cookery,  modern,  xxx 

. beans,  220 

. ragout  of,  1 21 

. . to  keep,  357 

. bread,  to  make,  37 1 

. method  ol  stewing  rump  or  bris¬ 
ket  of  beef,  9o 
Fricandeau  of  veal,  123 
[Fricassee,  a  brown,  110 

. . a  white,  1 10 

Fricassees,  observations  on,  105,  108 

L . and  ragouts,  French,  xxx 

Fritters,  3 13 

Frontiniac  wine,  to  make,  400 
Fruit,  introduction  of,  xli 

. observations  on  preserving,  314 

. pies,  315 

[Fruits  used  by  the  Jews,  vi 
Frying,  70 

. lard  for,  71 

j . heat  for,  71 

. thickness  of  steaks  and  chops 

in,  72 

Furmerty  or  Firmity,  313 
Furniture-balls,  455 
Game,  how  to  choose,  lxxii 

.  sauce  for,  180 

j .  soup,  34 

Gammon  of  pork,  to  roast,  45,  46 
Garlic-sauce,  174 

Geese,  estimate  of,  in  France,  xxix 
Gentian  used  in  brewing,  381 
German  cookery,  xxxvii 
Giblet  pie,  27  1 

. soup, 33 

[Giblets,  to  stew,  96,  97 
Gin,  strength  of,  409 

'[ . uses  of,  336 

[Ginger,  188 

[ .  use  of,  27 

? . beer,  how  made,  388 


Ginger,  candied,  318 

. wine,  401 

.  powder  for  beer,  458 

Gingerbread,  antiquity  of,  xxvii 

. nuts,  29b 

Glaubers’  salts,  434 
Glaze,  to  make,  169 
Gluten,  88,  199 
Godiveau,  157 
Goose,  to  boil  a,  1 1 

. to  roast  a  stubble,  50 

. a  green,  51 

. a  wild,  51 

. a  savoury  dish,  143 

. a-la-mode,  143 

. marinaded,  144 

.  ragout,  118 

. sauces  for,  179 

Gooseberries,  277 

.  to  preserve, 315 

Gooseberry-fool,  320 

. jam,  307 

.  pudding,  257 

. sauce,  174 

. vinegar,  to  make,  335 

. wine,  399 

Grape,  origin  of  the,  395 

. varieties  of,  in  England,  396 

Grapes,  to  preserve,  356 
Gravies  for  omelets,  79 
Gravy,  adding  wine  to,  74 

_ _ beef,  168 

.  a  rich,  168 

. brown,  169 

.  for  snipes  or  woodcocks,  II 

. soup,  29 

Grayling,  to  broil,  67 

Greeks,  culinary  arts  of  the,  viii,  xiii 

. condiments  used  by  the,  xi 

Green  peas,  to  keep,  358 

.  and  lettuce,  to  stew,  98 

.  soup,  31 

Greengage  plums,  dried,  318 
Green  sauce,  184 
Grenade  of  veal,  124 
Grenadines  of  veal,  124 
Grouse,  to  dress,  54 
Gruel,  424 

. from  groats,  209 

Guinea-fowl,  to  dress,  53 
Gum-arabic,  198 
Haddock,  to  boil,  18 

. to  broil,  68 

Haggis,  a,  139 

. a  Scotch,  139 

Ham,  a  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  352 

. fault  of,  in  shops,  7 

. to  boil,  6 

. to  cure,  350,  351,458 

..  ...  to  roast,  45,  46 

. essence  of,  171 

. sauce,  171 

Hare  and  rabbit  pie,  271 

. to  hash,  103 

. to  jug,  103,  104 

. to  roast,  48 

. stuffing  for,  48 

. a  mock,  49 

. a  Florendine,  152 

. sauce  for,  172 


470 


INDEX 


Hare  soup,  32 
Haricot  of  Mutton,  135 

.  of  veal,  123 

Hashing  and  mincing,  101 
Hasty-pudding,  255 
Heart,  baked,  a  bullock’s,  57 
. a  calf’s,  58 

. to  boil  a  bullock’s  or  calf’s  6 

. to  roast,  44 

Herbs,  sweet,  192 
Hermitage  Hill,  wine  of,  xxxiv 
Herrings,  to  bake,  62 

.  to  boil,  17 

.  to  broil,  68 

. to  fry,  84 

Hesiod,  work  of,  on  agriculture,  viii 
History  of  cookery,  i  et  seq. 
Hodge-podge,  or  Hotch-potch,  137,  138 
Homer,  description  of  Grecian  cookery 
by,  ix 

Honey,  early  estimation  of,  iv 
Hop-tops,  to  dress,  23  1 
Hops,  use  of,  377 

.  different  opinions  of,  340,  379 

Honey  of  roses,  322 
Horseradish,  lyo 

.  root,  xtse  in  soup,  26 

.  sauce,  181 

House-lamb,  dressed  white,  93 
Hung  beef,  353 
Hunting-pudding,  253 
Hungary-water,  413 
Ice-cream,  304 
Icings  for  cakes,  301 
Imperial,  428 
Indian  pickle,  341 
Ink,  to  make  black,  451 

. to  make  red,  451 

. to  remove  form  mahogany,  453 

Irons,  to  prevent  their  rusting,  454 
Italian  cookery,  xix 
Jack,  to  bake,  59 
Jam,  303 

. raspberry,  305 

.  gooseberry,  307 

. currant,  307 

.  observations  on,  307 

Jellies,  308 

Jelly,  calves’  feet,  309 

.  hartshorn,  3  lo 

.  orange  and  lemon,  310 

.  currant,  red,  black,  and  white, 

310 

John  Dory,  to  boil  a,  17 
Kid,  to  roast,  4  I 
Kidney-beans,  219 
Kidneys,  to  broil,  66 
Kilkenny  tripe,  135 
Lakes,  hsh of  the  Italian,  xxv 
Lamb,  grass,  boiled,  5 

. a  leg  of,  boiled,  5 

.  ragout  of,  116,  117 

. to'roast  a  quarter  of,  42 

. a  leg  of,  forced,  1 33 

.  pie, 270 

. chops  cn  casserole,  139 

.  to  fry,  74 

Lamb’s  bits,  139 

.  head,  to  boil,  8 

.  stones  fricasseed,  109 


Lampreys,  to  bake,  62 

.  to  dress,  84 

.  potted,  327 

.  stewed,  99 

Larks  a-la-Franijoise,  151 

.  to  roast,  53 

Lavender-water,  412 

. compound  spirit  of,  413 

Laver,  potted,  328 
Laudanum,  use  of,  436 
Leaven,  baking  with,  367 
Leeks,  to  boil,  224 
Lemonade,  430,  458 
Lemon,  the,  195 

. and  orange  brandy,  414 

. pickle,  339 

. sauce,  185 

. tarts,  280 

Lemons,  to  pickle,  339 
Lent  in  Portugal,  xxxvi 
Lettuce,  the,  233 
Lime,  the,  195 
Liniment  of  Ammonia,  437 
Ling,  to  boil,  14 
Linseed,  infusion  of,  432 
Liqueurs  distillees,  417 

.  de  quatre  fruits  jaunes,  419 

Liver,  why  unwholesome,  xxx 
. fat,  ib. 

Livers  of  poultry,  ragout  of,  1 1 9 
Lobster,  potted,  327 

.  sauce,  183 

. soup,  35 

Loin  of  veal,  124 

.  in  epigram,  124 

Loquot,  the,  243 

Lucullus,  fruits  brought  from  African 
Rome  by,  xiii 

Luxury  of  the  citizens,  xlii,  xliii 
Macaroni,  how  made,  xxii 

.  153 

. soup,  30 

Macaroons,  298 
Mace,  187 

Mackarel,  to  bake,  67 

.  to  boil,  16 

.  to  broil,  67 

.  collared,  331 

Madeira  wine,  to  make,  40t 
Made  dishes,  122 
Mahogany,  to  darken,  452 

. to  take  ink  out  of,  453 

Maids,  10  boil,  13 

Maitre  Rotisseurs,  company  of  the, 
xxvii 

Maltliquors,  properties  of,  386 

. to  correct  the  acidity  of,  389 

Manchets,  290 
Marjoram,  193 
Marinade,  a,  157 

. an  English,  157 

Marmalade,  quince,  316 

. of  peaches,  apples,  or  pears 

316 

. orange,  316 

. of  pears,  307 

Marrow,  to  purify,  23 

.  pudding,  264 

Massepains,  298 
Mead,  to  make,  4C2 


INDEX.  47] 


leat,  howto  boil,  l 

. observations  on  potting,  salting, 

and  preserving,  323 
ledicinal  cookery,  421 
lediterranean  sailors,  abstemiousness 
I  of  the,  xxiv 
lelted  butter,  165 

lelropolilan  bread,  process  of  baking, 
373 

.  j . kneading,  373 

lilk  and  cream,  245 

, _ of  almonds,  311 

Jince-pie,  278 

, .  meat,  279 

linced  meat  pudding,  257 

ft . veal,  102 

lint,  191 

f  ; . sauce,  174 

jjock  hare,  49 
| . turtle,  20 

J. . a  cheap  method  of  making,  21 

-  floor-game,  to  dress,  54 
ijlorells,  196 

ilucilage  of  gum  arabic  or  of  starch,  433 
luffins,  291,  292 
ilulberries,  to  preserve,  316 
?  jlullagatawny  soup,  242 
1  fulled  wine,  429 
ilullets,  to  boil,  16 

.. . to  broil,  67 

. . to  fry,  84 

uscles,  to  pickle,  347 

. .  ragout  of,  120 

.  to  stew,  101 

jlushroom-catchup,  342 

i; .  loaves,  156 

il .  pickled,  343 

.  powder,  343 

.  sauce,  181 

m  siirooms,  meadow,  xix 

t .  196,-230 

j . broiled,  231 

!■' . fricasseed,  112 

,  || . ragout  of,  120 

Mustard,  etymology  ot  the  word,  xv 
Mustard,  189 

.  white,  190,  233 

Mutton,  to  boil  a  leg  of,  with  cauli¬ 
flowers  and  spinach,  9 

I] . to  hash,  101 

.  haunch  of,  like  venison,  41 

. saddle  of,  41 

. leg  of,  42 

. . kebobbed,  136 

. a  leg  of,  with  a  haut-gout,  136 

|j . stuffed  with  oysters,  137 

1 .  sauce  for,  180 

|[ . broth,  36,  423 

j . pie,  269 

.  pudding,  260 

.  ragout,  115 

. rumps  and  kidneys,  137 

S .  scollops,  136 

1 . chops,  broiling,  65 

j .  disguised,  137 

I! .  to  fry,  73 

Nankeen  dye,  456 
Naples,  wine  and  corn  of,  xxiii 
Neat’s  foot,  to  fry,  75 
. tongue,  to  cure  a,  352 


Neat’s  tongue,  fricasseed,  109 

.  to  stew,  92 

Nectarine,  the,  281 
Nice,  fruits  of,  xxv 

.  fish  of,  xxvi 

Norway  cookery,  xl 
Norfolk  dumplings,  259 
Noyaux,  or  Noyau,  4 16 
Nutmegs,  187 
Nux  vomica,  a  poison,  381 
Oat  or  water  gruel,  424 
Oats,  209 
Oils,  fixed,  201 

. essential  or  volatile,  201 

Olive  oil,  the  olive  where  obtained,  430 
Olives  of  Veal,  123 
Omelettess  a  la  Fermiere,  80 
Omelettes,  79,  80,  155 
Onions,  190 

.  to  keep,  356 

. to  pickle,  341 

Onion  sauce,  172 

.  a  brown,  173 

Opium,  what,  436 

.  used  in  brewing,  S81 

Orange,  introduction  of,  into  Italy, 
xv 

. and  lemon  custards,  303 

. gourd,  the,  266 

. marmalade,  316 

. pudding,  264 

.  sauce,  185 

. tarts,  280 

. a  zest  of,  317 

Oranges,  195 

.  the  Seville,  195 

Orgeat,  to  make,  420 
Ox-cheek  soup,  30 

.  to  slew,  93 

Ox-feet  jelly  and  soup,  34 
Ox-palates,  fricasseed,  108 

. marinaded,  92,  93 

.  ragout  of,  115 

. stewed,  92 

Ox-tail  soup,  34 
Ox-tongues  to  fry,  74 
Oxford  John,  136 

. sausages,  355 

Oyster  to  feed,  lxxv 

. art  of  preserving  fresh,  xiv 

.  loaves,  153 

........  pies,  274 

.  sauce, 180 

.  soup,  35 

Oysters  to  boil,  19 

. to  fricassee,  115 

. to  fry,  84 

. to  pickle,  S47 

. ragout  of,  119 

. scolloped,  100 

. to  stew,  100 

Paint,  to  remove,  455 
Panada,  427 
Pancakes,  282,  2S4 

.  cream,  285 

.  rice,  285 

.  pink,  286 

Pap,  205,  244 

Parfait  Amour  or  Perfect  Love,  418 
Parmasan  cheese,  xxv 


INDEX 


472 

Parsley,  190 

. and  batter,  184 

Parsnips,  229 
Partridge,  to  boil  a,  1 1 

. .  to  dress,  52,  53 

Partridges  a  la  biaise,  150 

. to  hash,  103 

Paste,  to  make,  453 

. for  pies  generally,  267 

. for  tarts,  268 

. custards  and  raised  pies,  260 

.  puff,  269,  270 

. crisp  tart,  279 

. .  for  stringing  tartlets,  280 

Pastiles,  lemon,  3 1 9 

.  raspberry,  ratafia,  319 

,Pastry,  observations  on,  265 

. uses  and  abuses  of,  274 

Pastrycooks,  associations  of,  in  Paris, 
xxvii 

Patties,  272 

. fried,  272 

. fine,  272 

Peaches,  281 

. and  apricots  to  preserve,  316 

. dried,  318 

Pea  fowls  to  dress,  52 
Pears,  276 

. apples,  &c.  marmalade  of,  307 

.  to  keep,  392 

Peas,  210 

.  to  boil  green,  210 

.  to  boil  dry,  210 

.  baked,  21 1 

.  to  keep  green,  358 

Pease  pudding,  258 

.  soup,  30,  31 

.  green, 31 

.  water  for,  25 

Penny  royal,  193 

.  water,  4 1 1 

Pepper,  Spanish,  xxxv 

. black  or  white,  187 

. cayenne,  187 

Peppermint  water,  110 

.  .  essence  of,  410 

Perch,  to  boil,  17 

. to  broil,  67 

Perry,  to  make,  389,  392 
Pettit  patties,  282 
Pheasant,  to  boil  a,  1 1 
Pheasants  a  la  braise,  151 

.  to  dress,  52 

.  to  hash,  103 

.  to  stew,  98 

Picalilli,  34 1 

Pickled  pork  to  boil,  7 

Pickles,  339,  347 

Pickling,  directions  for,  332 

Pie, beef  steak, mutton, veal,  &  pork,  273 

. eel,  273 

. lamb,  venison,  and  squad,  270 

.  hare,  rabbit,  poultry,  and  other 

bird,  giblet,  and  pigeon,  271 
.  fish,  273 

. apple  and  other  fruit,  275 

Pies,  baking  of,  265 

. oys  ter,  274 

. fruit,  274 

. raised,  268 


Pies,  rhubarb,  277 

. mince,  278 

Pigeon,  to  boil  a,  1 1 

.  to  broil,  66 

. pie,  271,  272 

. to  roast,  52 

Pigeons  a  la  minute,  148 

. en  matelote,  148 

. en  compote  a  la  braise,  149 

. fricasseed,  1 10 

. jugged,  149 

. a  la  monarque,  149 

. to  stew,  97 

Pig,  a  baked,  58 

....  barbacued,  141 

....  au  Pere  Duller,  141 

....  en  matelote,  141 

....  to  roast,  46 

....  to  bake,  47 

....  sauce  for,  46,  179 

....  to  kill  and  prepare,  47 

Pig’s  feet  and  ears,  ragout  of,  118 

.  soused,  354 

. petit  toes  to  boil,  7 

Pike,  to  bake,  50 

.  to  boil  a,  16 

Pikelets,  292 
Pimenta,  187 
Pine  apple,  the,  243 
Piper,  to  bake,  60 
Piquant  sauce,  175,  456 

.  a  la  Francoise,  175 

Plaice  to  boil,  17 
Plate  powder,  456 

. to  clean,  456 

Plover,  to  roast  a  green,  53 

.  to  stew,  93 

Plum  cake,  293 

.  a  fermented,  293 

.  without  flour,  294 

Plum  porridge,  37 
Plums,  276 

.  to  preserve, 315 

Polish,  French,  452 

Pomade  Divine,  438 

Pomatum,  438 

Pomegranates,  244 

Pompeii,  domestic  discoveries  in,  xi' 

Pork,  to  roast,  44 

.  to  baste,  45 

. to  salt,  353 

. broth  or  jelly,  424 

. chops,  to  broil,  65 

. pie,  269 

. sausages,  354 

Portable  soup,  33 

Porter,  process  of  brewing,  384,  385 

.  ingredient  s  used  in,  385,  386 

Portugal  beef,  132 
Port  wine,  to  make,  401 
Possets,  429 

Potash  cakes,  American,  368 
Potato  pudding,  262 

. starch,  215,  425 

Potatoes,  212 

. methods  of  cooking,  213 

. boiled,  214 

.  to  fry,  77 

.  to  keep, 355 

. .  use  of,  in  bread,  366 


INDEX 


473 


otatoes,  new,  bad,  272 

. scolloped,  214 

. mashed,  214 

at  Pourri  or  preserved  flowers,  454 
otted  beef,  325,  326 

i . various  meats,  326 

. lobster,  327 

.....  crabs,  shrimps,  crayfish,  See. 
327 

. eels,  lampreys,  and  other  fish, 

327 

IL . laver,  3 .8 

at-liquor,  use  of,  2 
lotting,  advantages  of,  324 
Dultices,  to  make,  4  32 
oultry  and  other  bird  pies,  271 

. to  stew  old,  86 

ound  cake,  294 
Irawn,  to  stew,  100 
Reserving  fruit,  observations  on,  314 
roof  spirit,  what,  189 
Russian  cookery,  xxxix 
ussic  acid,  203 
adding,  batter,  251 

I . bread,  250 

I .  a  cabinet,  250 

i . white,  251,  260 

jl . custard,  252 

j. . cream,  252 

i . plain,  252 

1' . hunting,  253 

1 1 . suet  or  plum,  254 

I  | . hasty,  255 

, .  rice,  255,  262 

i  I . sago,  255 

. apple,  256 

it. . various  fruits,  256,  257 

;  ..........  pease,  258 

jU. . biscuit,  259 

|$l .  black,  259 

v . beef  steak,  260 

«  . . mutton,  260 

.  baked,  261 

4i'. . Bath,  262 

#?. . amber,  262 

. potato,  262 

. millet,  263 

. . Yorkshire,  263 


tiK  . . orange,  264 

. lemon,  264 

L . marrow,  264 

t .  transparent,  264 

. quince,  264 


uddings,  directions  for  boiled,  248 

.  time  for  boiling,  249 

.iff  paste,  267 
jiffs,  simple,  282 

:i . curd,  282 

. . sugar,  283 

[. . almonds,  283 

. lemon,  283 

umpkins  to  dress,  226 
junch,  to  make,  in  the  French  and 
English  method,  419,420 
urgatives,  433 

. for  children,  435 

url,  421 

iuails  to  dress,  54 
juaking  pudding,  252 
Juassia  used  in  brewing,  381 


Queen  cakes,  297 
Quenelles,  157 
Quin  sauce,  163,  118 
Quince  pudding,  264 
Quinces,  276 
Rabbit,  to  boil  a,  9 

.  to  roast,  47 

.  sauce  for,  48 

.  like  hare,  48 

.  a  Florentine,  152 

. .  surprised,  152 

Rabbits  en  casserole,  153 

.  to  hash,  102 

Radishes,  232 

Ragouts,  made  dishes,  105 

. what  are,  005 

. white 

Raised  pies,  268 
Raisin  wine,  399 
Ramequins,  153,  154 
Raspberry  brandy,  414 

.  jam,  305 

.  the,  306 

.  pastiles,  319 

Ratafia  cakes,  298 

.  of  various  fruits,  414,  415 

. .  of  noyauxor  noyau,  416 

Rectification  of  spirits,  408 
Rein-deer,  the,  of  the  Laplander,  xl 
Resins,  202 

Rice- fields  of  Turin,  xxv 

. 215 

.  boiled,  216 

.  eaten  with  currie,  216 

.  cake,  297 

.  pudding,  255,  262 

.  milk,  216 

Rhubarb  pie,  277 

. pudding,  259 

boasting,  observations  on,  38,39 
Rolls,  293 

Homan  gourmands,  xiv 
Romans,  cookery  of  the,  xiii 

. fruits  and  vegetables  cultivated 

by  the,  xv 

. animals  of  the,  xvi 

. pastry  of  the,  xvii 

Rook  pie,  iv 
Roots,  to  keep,  356 
Rosemary,  spirit  of,  413 
Roses,  honey  of,  322 

. milk  of,  452 

. syrup  of,  322 

Rose  water,  41 1 

. the  best,  412 

Round  of  beef  forced,  153 
Roux,  166 

. Blanc,  166,  167 

Ruffs  and  reeves,  53 
Rump  of  beef,  to  bake,  56 

.  forced,  133 

.  to  stew,  90 

.  French  method, 

90 

Russian  cookery,  xxxviii 

. poultry,  fruits,  and  vegetables, 

xxxix 
Rye,  207 

Saccharometer,  use  of  a,  377 
Sago,  191,  427 


474 


INDEX 


Sago  pudding,  552 
Salads,  231 

Salep  or  saloop,  425,  426 
Salmon,  to  boil,  12 

.  to  broil,  66 

. fresh,  66 

.  dried,  66 

.  to  fricassee,  1 15 

.  to  pickle,  13, 340 

.  baked,  58 

.  collared,  231 

Sal  prunella,  351 

Salt,  how  obtained  at  Sallzburg,  xxvi 

.  common,  186 

.  pet  re  or  nitre,  186 

. for  pickling,  458 

.  of  lemon,  449 

.  fish-sauce,  for,  15 

. vegetable  accompaniments,  15 

Salting,  observations  on,  347,  349 

. heat  or  cold  to  be  avoided,  348 

. brine  or  pickle  for,  349,  353 

. vessels  for,  349 

Salts,  Epsom,  433 

.  Glauber’s,  434 

Sauce  for  roast  pig,  46 

.  rabbit,  48 

.  lobster,  183 

.  shrimp,  183 

.  anchovy,  184 

......  fennel,  !S4 

.  green,  184 

.  lemon  and  orange,  185 

.  ham,  171 

.  egg,  172 

.  for  hare,  172 

.  onion,  172 

.  brown  onion,  173 

.  shalot,  174 

.  garlic,  174 

.  mint,  174 

.  caper,  174 

.  gooseberry,  174 

.  apple,  174 

.  bread,  175 

.  piquant,  175 

. a  la  Francoise,  175 

.  white,  175 

.  tomato  a  la  Bourgeoise,  176 

. Italienne,  176 

.  tomato,  177 

.  tournee,  177 

.  sweet,  177 

.  for  venison,  177 

.  for  a  pig,  179 

.  for  a  green  goose,  179 

.  Robert,  178 

.  for  roast  meat,  178 

.  Indienne,  176 

.  Sicilian,  178 

.  for  turkey,  179 

.  fowls,  ducks,  pheasants,  par¬ 
tridges,  and  other  game,  180 

.  for  birds,  ducks,  rabbits,  and 

mutton,  180 

.  oyster,  180 

.  cockle  and  muscle,  181 

.  quin,  181 

.  horse-radish,  181 

. .  sorrel,  181 


Sauce,  mushroom,  181 
.  fish, 182 

Sauces,  observations  on  French,  162 

Savoty,  193 

Savoury  meat,  iii 

Sausage  meat,  354 

Sausages,  pork,  354 

. Oxford,  Bologna,  and  bee 

xxxv,  355 

. to  fry,  76 

Scotch  barley  broth,  36 

. .  scollops,  126,  128 

Scuba,  418 

Spa  kale,  224 

Senna,  decoction  of,  435 

Season,  articles  in,  xciv 

Shalot  sauce,  174 

Shalots,  to  keep,  356 

Sherry,  to  make,  401 

Shoulder  of  mutton,  surprized,  136 

Shrimp  sauce,  183 

Shrimps,  to  stew,  100 

Shrub,  to  make,  420 

Sicilian  cookery,  xxi 

. bread,  xxii 

.  sauce,  176 

Sirloin,  anecdote  concerning,  xliv 

.  of  beef  in  epigram,  133 

. . . forced,  133 

Skait,  to  boil,  18 

.  to  fricassee,  1 14 

Skirrets,  230 

. to  fricassee,  112 

Smallage,  seed  of,  161 
Smelts,  to  fry,  83 
Snipes,  to  boil,  11 

. en  surtout,  150 

. to  roast,  53 

Soda  water,  430 
Soles,  to  boil,  15 

. to  fricassee,  114 

. fried,  80,  81 

Solomon,  his  knowledge  of  botany,  vi 

. provision  of,  for  one  day,  vi 

Song,  specimen  of  a  French,  xxix 
Sop  in  the  pan,  a,  240 
Sorrel  sauce,  181 

. the  wood,  233 

Soup,  to  clarify,  33 

. maigre,  31 

.  cheap,  32 

. portable,  33 

Soups,  general  observations  on,  25 
........  use  of  horse-radish  in,  26 

. and  sauces,  colour  for,  28 

Sour  beer,  to  correct,  389 
. crout,  357 

Sousing  tripe,  pig’s  feet  &  ears,  353,  35 
Southey,  sketch  of  Rlr.  on  board  a  Spa 
nish  packet,  xxxv 
Soy,  Indian,  196 
Spain,  the  cookery  of,  xxxiv 

. fruit  of,  xxxvi 

Sparrows,  to  roast,  53 
Spices,  161 

.  not  to  be  long  boiled,  26 

Spinach,  222 

. to  boil,  222 

. and  eggs,  223 

Spirits,  excess  in  drinking,  409 


INDEX 


475 


Spirits,  use  of  ardent,  386 
compound,  413 
of  wine,  414 
Spits,  Portuguese,  xxxvi 
Spongecakes,  297 
Sprats,  to  bake,  62 
to  broil,  68 

Spruce  beer,  how  made,  387 
....  essence  of,  388 
Squab  pie,  270 
Stains,  to  remove,  434 
jStarch,  199 

to  make  potato,  215,  424 

.  pure,  424 

Steaks,  proper  thickness  of,  63 
to  broil,  64,  65 

Stewing,  observations  on,  86,  89 
Still,  the,  405,  406,  407 
Stock,  to  make,  28 

for  fish  soup,  34 

Stoppers,  to  loosen,  in  bottles,  453 
Strawberries,  306 
Stuffing  for  fowls,  159 
for  goose,  50 
for  hare,  43 
for  turkey,  10,  49 
veal,  128 

Sturgeon,  to  boil,  17 

.  to  broil,  66 

Suet,  to  purify,  22,  24 

. puddings,  254 

Sugar,  introduction  of,  xlviii 
187,  198 
clarified,  303 
small  devices  in,  303 
Sweatbread,  fricasseed,  108 
Sweetbreads,  to  fry,  75 
....  to  roast,  44 
....  ragout  of,  177 
....  veal,  127,  128 
....  white,  108 

Syllabub,  a,  under  the  cow,  312 
a  whipped,  312 
Syrup,  321 

of  mulberries,  of  roses,  322 
simple,  322 
Tannin,  200 
Tapioca,  426 
Tarragon,  194 

. vinegar,  to  make,  336,  337 

Tartar  and  cream  of  tartar,  365 
Tarts  and  puffs,  297 
and  tartlets,  280 
apples  for,  280 
orange  and  lemon,  280 
of  various  fruits,  281 
introduction  of,  xlvii 
234 

not  injurious,  235 
how  to  make,  235 

. kettle  broth,  36 

Teeth,  wash  for,  452 
Tench,  to  boil,  17 

l| .  to  broil,  67 

to  fricassee,  113 
to  fry,  83 

Theocritus,  curious  notices  by,  x 
Thornback,  to  boil,  18 
Thyme,  common  and  lemon,  193 
’oast,  a  cider,  155 


ea. 


Toast,  dry,  206 
Tomato  chops,  123 

.  sauce,  177 

. a  la  Bourgeoise,  176 

.  Italienne,  176 

Tongue,  to  boil  a  neat’s,  6 

.  to  cure  a  neat’s,  352 

.  to  roast,  44 

.  and  udder,  135 

Tooth-powder,  451 
Tops  and  botfoms,  300 
Traiteuror  Cuisinier-traiteur,  offices  of 
the,  xxvii 

Transparent  pudding,  264 
Treacle  posset,  429 
Trifle,  to  make  a,  303 
Tripe,  to  boil,  S 

. fricasseed,  109 

. to  fry,  74 

Trout  kept  on  Mount  Cenes,  xxv 

. to  boil,  16 

. to  broil,  67 

.  to  fry,  83 

Truffle,  the,  where  a  native,  xxxvii 

. how  found,  ib. 

Truffles,  196 

Trussing,  directions  for,  lxxvi,  Ixxxi 
Turbot,  baked,  58 

. to  boil,  13 

. fried,  82 

Turkey, trussing,  Ixxvii 

.  a  la  Daube,  14 

. in  a  hurry,  15 

. with  ragout, 

. poults,  50 

. to  boil  a,  14 

.  to  roast,  49 

.  to  stew,  96 

.  sauces  for,  179 

. and  fow  s  to  hash,  102 

Turmeric  root,  192 
Turnips,  227 

. boiled,  227 

. to  choose,  228 

Turtle,  treatment  of,  19 
.  West  Indian  method  of  dress¬ 
ing,  20 

. mock,  20 

Tuscany,  cookery  of,  xxiv 

Twelfth  cake,  295 

Veal,  to  boil  like  sturgeon,  4 

.  sauce  to,  4,  5 

.  to  stew  a  knuckle,  93,  94 

. a  fillet,  94 

.  a  neck,  95 

. a  breast,  95 

.  a  breast  a  la  Suisse,  95 

.  bombarded,  127 

.  to  collar,  329,  330 

.  to  roast,  43 

.  broth,  36,  423 

.  cutlets  to  fry,  73 

. to  broil,  66 

.  haricot  of,  123 

.  fricandeau  of,  123 

.  olives,  123 

.  geraile  of,  125 

.  grenadines  of,  124 

.  loin  of  in  epigram,  124 

.  pie,  269 


INDEX 


476 


Veal, Ragout  of,  117 

. 'rolls,  125 

.  stuffing,  128 

.  swealbreads,  127 

.  scollops,  126 

.  stock,  28 

Vegetable  food  of  the  Jew9,  v,  vi 

.  marrow,  225 

Vegetables,  indigenous,  of  France, 
xxxiii 

.  observations  on,  197,  238 

.  cookery  of,  239 

. directions  for  boiling  green, 

217 

. preservation  of,  355 

Veloute,  or  sauce  tournee,  177 
Venison,  to  boil  a  haunch  or  neck,  5 

.  a  side  of,  potted,  330 

.  to  fry,  74 

.  to  hash,  101 

.  to  roast  haunch,  neck,  or 

shoulder,  40 

. pie  or  pasty,  270 

. sauces  for,  177 

Verjuice,  338,  3S9 
Vermicelli  pudding,  263 

. soup,  white,  29 

Victuals,  a  list  of  the  early  prices  of, 
xiii 

Villas,  Roman,  xiii 
Vine,  wild,  in  America,  396 
Vinegar,  186 

. observations  on,  332,  33? 

. how  obtained,  333 

.  to  make  common,  334 

. to  flavour,  335,  337 

. to  make  Tarragon,  335,  337 

. essence  of,  335 

. aromatic,  335,  336 

. Chili,  336 

.  camp,  337 

ualities,  of,  338 

_  istilled,  338 

Vineyards  of  Portugal,  xxxvi 
Virgin’s  milk,  244 
Vitriol,  spirits  of,  451 
Umbles  of  deer,  138 
Udders,  to  roast,  44 
Wafers,  282 
Walnut  ketchup,  340 
Walnuts,  to  keep  ripe,  358 

.  to  pickle,  340,  341 

W arm  bathing,  435 
Water-cresses,  232 


Water,  to  distil,  412 
Waters,  distilled  spirituous,  413 
Wax,  203 
Wheat,  204 

. .  analysis  of,  361,  362 

Wheatears,  to  roast,  53 

.  flour,  207 

. properties  of,  247 

Whey,  sack,  429 
Whipped  cream,  305 
Whiskey,  strength  of,  409 
W  hite  bait,  84 

.  to  dress,  85 

Whitings,  to  boil,  18 

.  to  broil,  68 

White  pudding,  251,260 

. sauce,  175 

. soup,  29 

. vermicelli  soup,  29 

Wortleberries,  orWhorts,  277 
Widgeon,  to  roa  51 
Wild  fowl,  to  huso,  103 
Wine  in  sauce,  how  to  use,  82 

. lines  on,  394 

. the  best,  where  produced,  391 

. British,  395 

. sweetness  of  English,  397 

. what  temperature  to  be  kept  in 

398 

. from  grapes,  398 

. gooseberry,  currant,  and  raisin 

399 

. various  fruits,  400 

. Fontiniac,  400 

.  clary,  sherry,  port,  orange,  ma 

deira,  and  ginger,  401 

. concluding  observation  on,  402 

. colour  of,  403 

. exc  ss  in  drinking,  404 

Woodcocks,  to  boil,  11 

. 'to  hash,  103 

. en  surtout,  151 

. to  roast,  53 

. to  stew,  98 

Wort,  strength  of,  how  to  ascertain, 

377 

Yeast,  ingredients  in,  374 

. how  to  preserve,  374 

. a  substitute  for,  374 

.  a  poultice  of,  375 

. dumplings,  258 

Yorkshire  puddings,  263 
Zest,  a,  of  orange,  317 
.  for  gravies,  458 


THE  END. 


MARCHANT,  PRINTER,  INGRAM- COURT,  FENCHl) RCH-STR EET. 


;>.q 


- 


