LIBRARY  (^CONGRESS. 


lielf-Jl-i-l^ 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


%c'^; 


1s-h  4 


Copyright,  1887, 
By  WHITE,  STOKES,  &  ALLEN. 


Copyright,  1892, 
By  CHARLES  E.  BROWN  &  CO. 


S.     J.     PARKH1LL    4    CO.,     PRINTERS 
BOSTON 


PREFACE. 


The  compiler  desires  to  express  her  sense  of  the  large 
debt  of  gratitude  she  owes  to  the  many  authors  and  pub- 
lishers whose  generous  contributions  have  enabled  her  to 
carry  out  a  cherished  plan.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  mention  the 
names  of  those  to  whom  she  is  so  much  indebted,  and  she 
desires  to  render  her  acknowledgments  to  the  following :  — 

Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe,  Mrs.  A.  D.  T.  Whitney, 
Mrs.  H.  P.  Spofford,  Mrs.  R.  H.  Davis,  Mrs.  Mary  Mapes 
Dodge,  Marion  Harland,  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln,  Mrs.  Mary 
Stuart  Smith,  Miss  Juliet  Corson,  and  Miss  Maria  Parloa, 
Miss  Estelle  M.  Hatch  of  the  "  Boston  Globe,"  Mr.  John 
Burroughs,  and  Mr.  Charles  D.  Warner.  Also  to  the  Rev. 
John  H.  Thomas  of  Indiana,  the  holder  of  the  copyright 
of  the  work  published  in  Dayton,  O. ;  Messrs.  Houghton. 
Mifflin,  &  Co. ;  Estes  &  Lauriat ;  Roberts  Brothers ;  Harper 
&  Brothers ;  G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons  •  Dick  &  Fitzgerald  ; 
Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co. ;  J.  B.  Lippincott  Co.  •  Mr.  Charles 
J.  Peterson;  Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.;  the  publishers  of 
"  Arthur's  Home  Magazine  "  and  "  Godey's  Lady's  Book," 
of  "Good  Housekeeping,"  "The  Caterer,"  and  "The 
Cook." 

Also  to  the  many  editors  who  have  aided  her,  and  whose 
papers  will  be  found  duly  credited  throughout  this  volume. 

v 


INDEX    TO    LITERARY    SELECTIONS    AND 
QUOTATIONS. 


TAGE 

Dinner  Scene  from  "Riquet  a  la  Houppe:"  Mrs.  Anne 

Thackeray  Ritchie .  .         .         .         3 

Quotation    from    "  The     Ballad    of    Bouillabaisse  : " 

Thackeray    ..........         7 

TheTrout:^.^.*;'^ 15 

Kisses  at  Market:  Anonymous        .        .        .        .        .        .29 

Beefsteak  Pudding.    "  Martin  Chuzzlewit  : "  Dickens     .      32 

Mutton  and  Turnips  :  Charles  Lamb 38 

Roast  Pig  :  Charles  Lamb   ........      43 

Bacon  and  Eggs  :  Father  Proufs  Relics    .        .        .        .        -45 

The  Sabbath  Supper  Chime:  Puck 49 

On  Tripe.  "The  Chimes:  "  Dickens  .  .  .  .  .50 
Sam  Lawson's  Turkey.  "Oldtown  Folks  :"  Mrs.  Stowe  .  59 
Roast  Goose.    "A  Christmas  Carol :"  Dickens  ...      65 

Stuffed  Peacock  :  Pierre  Blot 67 

Pigeon  Pie.  "The  Sketch-Book:  "  Irving  .  .  .  .  71 
On   Game.     "Steven   Lawrence,   Yeoman:"  Mrs.  Annie 

Edwards 75 

The  'Possum  :  Arkansaw  Traveller 77 

"Toss   us  up  an  Omelet."    "The  Maid  of  Croissey:" 

Mrs.  Gore 83 

Quotation  from  Essays  :  R.  W.  Emerson  '  .  .  .  .87 
Description  of  Dairy.    "Adam  Bede:"  George  Eliot .        .      89 

The  Mushroom:  Campbell 93 

Asparagus  :  Charles  Lamb .96 

The  Maize.  "  Hiawatha  :  "  H.  W.  Longfellow  ...  97 
Cabbage.  "My  Summer  in  a  Garden:"  C.Z).  fTamr  .  103 
The  Onion.  "My  Summer  in  a  Garden:"  C.  D.  Warner  105 
Celery  :  John  Burroughs "a6 


INDEX   TO  SELECTIONS. 


ough 


Extract   from  "Aunt  Cindy's  Dinner:"  Sarah    Winter 

Kellogg 

Scene  from  "  Mary  Powell  : "  Mrs.  Manning 
Quotation  from  "  Locusts  and  Wild  Honey  : "  Burt 
Scene  from  "  Margaret  : "  Sylvester  Judd 
Scene  from  "Margret  Howth:"  Mrs.  R.  H.  Davis 
Frumenty.    "  Essays  of  Elia  : "  La?nb    .        ... 
An  Apple  Pudding.    "We  Girls  :"  Mrs.  Whitney 
Apple  Dumplings:  Charles  Lamb      .... 
Strawberries  :  Dr.  Boteler  and  John  Burroughs 

Blackberries:  Charles Mackay 

Pumpkin  Pie.    "The  Pumpkin:"/.  G.  Whittier    . 
Mince  Pie.     "  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow  : "  Irving 
The  Party.    "  Donald  and  Dorothy  : "  Mrs.  Dodge 
Jessie's  Bargains  :  Mrs.  H.  P.  Spofford     . 
Scene  from  "My  Precious  Betsy  -."Morton 

Poem  on  Herbs:  Shenstone 

Quotation  from  "The  Culprit  Fay:"/.  R.  Drake 


i37 
146 

i47 
155 
157 
160 
163 
196 
171 
172 
182 
186 
191 

215 
223 
23I 

233 


CHAPTER 


SOUPS, 


UNIVERSAL   COOKERY    BOOK. 


SOUPS. 

"  Where  is  Sylvia?"  cried  Colonel  King,  in  a  harsh  voice.  His 
back  was  turned  to  the  window.  "  Sophy,  why  didn't  you  look  after 
her?" 

"There  she  is!  "  cried  Frank  Lubworth.  "  What  can  she  be  doing 
in  the  garden  ?  "  And,  in  answer  to  an  imploring  look  of  Mrs.  King's, 
he  added,  "  I  will  go  after  her  :  don't  you  wait."  .  .  . 

"  It  makes  her  father  so  nervous,"  said  Mrs.  King  ..plaintively, 
raising  her  voice.  "  I  can't  think  what  to  do.  It  is  just  like  her  to  go 
for  a  walk  in  the  garden,  when  we  are  all  waiting  dinner.  Now,  Sophy 
never  keeps  us." 

"  Don't  apologize,"  said  the  old  lady.  "  Sylvia  is  quite  pretty 
enough  to  keep  us  all  waiting,  and  Sophy,  who  isn't  pretty,  is  punctual ; 
so  it  is  all  as  it  should  be.     Clear  soup  ?  "     "  Yes." 

"  My  poor  Sophy !  "  said  the  mother,  who  always  seemed  to  take 
a  melancholy  view  of  every  thing.  "  It  seems  so  hard  that  Sylvia 
should  have  all  the  beauty  of  the  family.  —  (No  soup?)  I  can't  take 
soup  :  it  is  a  great  privation  to  me.  —  Aunt  Dormer !  If  you,  with  all 
your  experience,  could  suggest  any  means  by  which  we  could  give  her 
a  little  of  her  sisters'  good  sense  and  thoughtfulness  "  — 

"  Suggest?"  said  the  old  lady,  peppering  her  soup,  "don't  ask  me 
to  suggest.  Find  her  a  good  husband,  my  dear :  a  punctual  man,  who 
can  remind  her  when  dinner  is  ready.  Let  him  have  a  little  money 
to  pay  for  it  too."  —  Riquet  A  LA  Houppe  :  Mrs.  Anne  Thackeray 
Ritchie. 


Brown  Stock. 

"Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  shin,  leg,  ox-cheek, 
or  from  the  clod  ;  cut  in  slices,  and  place  at  the  bot- 
tom of  a  greased  saucepan,  adding  a  little  water  to 
prevent  its  burning.  Add  a  piece  of  lean  bacon,  cut 
in  slices  :  a  more  or  less  quantity  is  immaterial,  — 
from  one-quarter  to  nearly  the  same  amount  of  beef. 
Cover  close  to  draw  out  the  gravy  gently,  and  then 


4  VEAL   STOCK'. 

allow  it  nearly  to  dry  until  it  becomes  brown,  then 
pour  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  entirely  cover  the 
meat,  skimming  it  frequently,  and  putting  in  salt, 
whole  peppers,  pot-herbs,  and  vegetables  of  any  kind. 
After  boiling  gently  for  five  or  six  hours,  pour  the 
broth  from  the  meat,  and  let  it  stand  during  the 
night  to  cool.  (Soup  should  never  be  suffered  to 
stand  in  any  vessel  of  tin,  copper,  or  iron,  to  get 
cold.)  In  the  morning  take  off  the  scum  and  fat, 
heat  it,  and  put  it  away  in  a  stone  jar  for  future  use. 
This  will  form  a  foundation  for  all  the  best  brown 
soups." 

Veal  Stock. 

Chop  up  three  slices  of  bacon  and  two  pounds  of 
the  neck  of  veal ;  place  in  a  stewpan  with  a  pint 
of  water  or  beef-stock,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  add  two  quarts  of  stock,  one  onion,  a  carrot,  a 
bouquet  of  herbs,  four  stalks  of  celery,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  bruised  whole  peppers,  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  boil  gently  for 
two  hours,  removing  the  scum  in  the  mean  time. 
Strain  into  an  earthen  crock,  and  when  cold  remove 
the  fat.  A  few  bones  of  poultry  added,  with  an  addi- 
tional quantity  of  water  or  stock,  will  improve  it.  — 
Fifty  Soups  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey.  White,  Stokes,  & 
Alle?i,  Pubs. 

Bouillon. 

Four  pounds  of  beef  from  the  middle  of  the  round, 
two  pounds  bone,  two  quarts  cold  water,  one  table- 
spoonful  salt,  four  peppercorns,  four  cloves,  one  table- 
spoonful  mixed  herbs.     Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  and 


POT-AU-FEU.  5 

bones  into  small  pieces  ;  add  the  water,  and  heat 
slowly  ;  add  the  seasoning,  and  simmer  five  hours. 
Boil  down  to  three  pints  ;  strain,  remove  the  fat,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  in  cups  at  lunch- 
eons, evening  companies,  etc.  Boil  one  onion,  half 
a  carrot,  and  half  a  turnip,  with  it  if  you  like.  —  The 
Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Roberts 
B  rot  Iters,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Pot-au-Feu. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  six  pounds  of  beef  (bones  in- 
cluded), cut  into  two  or  three  pieces  ;  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  mixed  vegetables,  such  as  onions, 
carrots,  turnips,  leeks,  white  cabbage,  and  celery  with 
its  leaves  left  on,  all  cut  in  good-sized  pieces  ;  three 
small  spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  one  of 
sugar ;  add  eight  pints  of  water  ;  let  it  boil  gently 
three  hours  ;  remove  the  fat ;  add  crusts  of  roll  or 
slices  of  bread,  either  previously  toasted  or  plain, 
and  serve.  —  Dainty  Dishes:  Lady  Harriet  St.  Clair. 

Rabbit  Soup. 

Cut  one  or  two  rabbits  into  joints  ;  lay  them  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water ;  dry  and  fry  them  in  butter  till 
about  half  done,  with  four  or  five  onions  and  a 
middling-sized  head  of  celery,  cut  small ;  add  to  this 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  one  pound  of  split  peas, 
some  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  stew  gently  for  four  or 
five  hours,  then  strain  and  serve  it.  —  Peterson's 
Magazine..    {By per.  Eds.) 


0  EEL   SOUP. 

Eel  Soup. 

"  Put  three  pounds  of  small  eels  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  with  a  crust  of  bread,  some  mace,  whole  pep- 
per, sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion ;  cover  them  close, 
and  stew  till  the  fish  is  quite  broken  ;  then  strain  it 
off,  and  serve  with  some  toasted  bread  cut  in  slices. 
It  may  be  thickened  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rich 
cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  it,  which 
is  a  great  improvement." 

A  Marseilles  Receipt  for  Bouillabaisse. 

Almost  any  sort  of  fish  may  be  used  in  making 
bouillabaisse,  and  the  more  kinds  the  better.  Those 
generally  used,  because  caught  in  the  Mediterranean, 
are  whitings,  red  mullets,  soles,  gurnet,  turbot,  lob- 
sters, and  crayfish.  Slice  two  large  onions,  place 
them  in  a  wide  but  deep  stewpan  made  of  thin 
metal  ;  add  four  or  five  spoonfuls  of  the  best  olive- 
oil.  Fry  the  onions  of  a  pale  brown  color.  Next 
place  the  fish,  previously  washed  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  in  the  pan,  and  cover  them  with  warm  water, 
but  not  more  than  equals  the  depth  of  the  contents  ; 
add  salt  in  moderation,  half  a  bay-leaf,  and  the  flesh 
of  half  a  lemon  without  rind  or  pips,  two  tomatoes 
cut  in  dice  and  the  seeds  removed,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, and  four  cloves  of  garlic.  Set  it  on  a  very 
hot  stove,  and  let  it  boil  for  twelve  minutes.  By 
this  time  the  liquor  should  be  reduced  to  a  thkd  of 
its  original  quantity ;  add  a  small  pinch  of  saffron,  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  allow  it  to 
boil  a  minute  longer ;  taste,  and  correct  the  seasoiv 


OYSTER  SOUP.  7 

ing  if  required.  Have  ready  youi  tureen  or  deep 
dish  with  two  dozen  slices  of  ligh:  French  roll  or 
bread,  cut  half  an  inch  thick,  laid  in  the  bottom  ; 
pour  some  of  the  soup  over,  and  turn  the  bread,  so 
that  it  may  be  thoroughly  soaked  ;  then  pour  in  the 
remainder,  keeping  back  the  inferior  parts  of  the 
fish,  and  serve  very  hot.  —  Dainty  Dishes:  Lady 
Harriet  St.   Clair. 

A  street  there  is  in  Paris  famous, 

For  which  no  rhyme  our  language  yields: 
Rue  Neuve  des  Petits  Champs  its  name  is  — 

The  New  Street  of  the  Little  Fields; 
And  here's  an  inn,  not  rich  and  splendid, 

But  still  in  comfortable  case, 
The  which  in  youth  I  oft  attended, 

To  eat  a  bowl  of  Bouillabaisse. 

This  Bouillabaisse  a  noble  dish  is  — 

A  sort  of  soup,  or  broth,  or  brew, 
Or  hotchpotch  of  all  sorts  of  fishes, 

That  Greenwich  never  could  outdo  ; 
Green  herbs,  red  peppers,  mussels,  saffron, 

Soles,  onions,  garlic,  roach,  and  dace ; 
All  these  you  eat  at  Terre's  tavern, 

In  that  one  dish  of  Bouillabaisse ! 

W.  M.  Thackerax. 

Oyster  Soup. 

"  Take  one  quart  of  water,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
small  teacup  of  butter,  four  crackers  rolled  fine, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.  Bring  to  full  boiling-heat  as  soon  as  possi- 
ble, then  add  one  quart  of  oysters.  Let  the  whole 
come  to  a  boiling-heat  quickly,  and  remove  from  the 
fire." 

Mock  Oyster  Soup. 

"One-half  pint  tomatoes;  three-quarters  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  butter  a  quarter  size  of   an  egg ;  a 


8  POTAGE   A    LA    RE  IKE. 

quarter  of  a  teaspoonf  ul  each  soda,  salt,  and  pepper ; 
one  pint  sweet  milk. 

"  Put  the  tomatoes  and  hot  water  over  the  fire, 
strain,  and  rub  through  colander.  Meanwhile,  boil 
the  milk,  stir  in  soda  and  butter,  and  after  one 
boil  keep  hot  (that  is,  not  to  let  it  more  than  come  to 
the  boil).  Put  pepper  and  salt  with  tomatoes,  sim- 
mer five  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Serve 
with  crackers." 

Potage  a  La  Reine. 

( Queen  Victoria's  Favorite  Soup.) 

Remove  the  fat  from  one  quart  of  the  water  in 
which  a  chicken  has  been  boiled.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  celery-salt,  and  a  little  onion  if  de- 
sired, and  put  on  to  boil.  Mash  the  yolks  of  three 
hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  and  mix  them  with  half  a  cup  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs  soaked  until  soft  in  a  little 
milk.  Chop  the  white  meat  of  the  chicken  until  fine 
like  meal,  and  stir  it  into  the  egg  and  bread  paste. 
Add  one  pint  of  hot  cream  slowly,  and  then  rub 
all  into  the  hot  chicken  liquor.  Boil  five  minutes, 
add  more  salt  if  needed,  and  if  too  thick  add  more 
cream,  or  if  not  thick  enough  add  more  fine  cracker- 
dust.  It  should  be  like  a  puree.  —  The  Boston 
Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Roberts  Brothers, 
Pubs. 

Okra  or  Gumbo  Soup. 

Boil  a  chicken  and  a  slice  of  ham  in  sufficient 
water  to  make  a  tureen  of  soup.  When  the  fowl  is 
thoroughly  done,   take    it   with    the   ham  from   th^ 


CELERY  sorr.  Q 

broth.  Flavor  the  soup  with  onions,  pepper,  salt, 
and  sweet  herbs  ;  make  a  paste  with  eggs  and  flour, 
roll  it  as  thin  as  wafers,  dry  a  little,  then  roll  it  as 
tightly  as  possible,  and  slice  in  thin  shreds  ;  put  in 
the  soup  a  teacupful  of  this,  a  teacupful  of  chopped 
okra,  and  a  pint  of  oysters.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book. 
{By  per.  Pub.) 

Celery  Soup. 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  three  bunches  of  celery,  one 
gallon  of  water,  one  teacupful  of  cream,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Put  one-half  of  the  celery  in  the  water  with  the  veal, 
and  boil  in  a  closely  covered  pot  for  three  hours,  or 
until  the  meat  is  in  pieces.  Strain,  and  return  to  the 
pot,  and  add  the  remaining  half  of  the  celery.  Sea- 
son, and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Just  before 
taking  off  of  the  fire,  add  the  cream,  to  which  has 
been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Boil  ten 
minutes  longer,  and  serve  with  nicely-cut  squares  of 
fried  toast.  —  The  Kentucky  Housekeeper:  Mrs. 
Peter  A.  White. 

Pea  Soup. 

Use  half  a  pint,  or  seven  ounces,  of  dried  pease 
(cost  three  cents),  for  every  two  quarts  of  soup  you 
want.  Put  them  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  after 
washing  them  well ;  bring  them  slowly  to  a  boil ;  add 
a  bone,  or  a  bit  of  ham,  if  you  have  it  to  spare,  one 
turnip,  and  one  carrot  peeled,  one  onion  stuck  with 
three  cloves  (cost  three  cents),  and  simmer  three 
hours,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning  ;  then 
pass  the  soup    through  a    sieve  with    the    aid    of  a 


IO  CORN  SOUP. 

potato-masher,  and  if  it  shows  any  sign  of  settling 
stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
mixed  together  dry  (cost  two  cents) ;  this  will  pre- 
vent settling ;  meantime  fry  some  dice  of  stale 
bread,  about  two  slices,  cut  half  an  inch  square,  in 
hot  fat,  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  put  them  in  the 
bottom  of  the  soup-tureen  in  which  the  pea-soup  is 
served  ;  or  cut  some  bits  of  very  hard  stale  bread,  or 
dry  toast,  to  use  instead  of  the  fried  bread.  By  the 
time  the  soup  is  done,  it  will  have  boiled  down  to 
two  quarts,  and  will  be  very  thick  and  good.  This 
receipt  will  cost  you  about  ten  cents.  —  Twenty- 
five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson.  (By  per.  O. 
Judd  Co.,  Pubs.) 

Corn  Soup. 

"  To  each  quart  of  young  corn  cut  from  the  cob* 
allow  three  pints  of  water.  Boil  until  the  grains  are 
tender,  and  then  add  two  ounces  of  butter  that  have 
been  well  mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Let  this  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Just  before 
serving,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste." 

A  Delicious  Soup. 

"  Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions,  six  potatoes,  six 
carrots,  and  four  turnips  ;  fry  them  in  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  pour  on  them  four  quarts  of  boiling 
water.  Toast  a  crust  of  bread  as  brown  and  hard  as 
possible,  but  do  not  burn  it,  and  put  it  in,  with  some 
celery,  sweet  herbs,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Stew  it 
all  gently  for  four  hours,  and  then  strain  it  through 
a   coarse    cloth.     Have   ready   thinly   sliced    carrot, 


CROUTONS.  II 

celery,  and  a  little  turnip.  Add  them  to  your  liking, 
and  stew  them  tender  in  the  soup.  If  approved  of, 
a  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup  may  be  added." 

Croutons, 

Or  fried  bread-crumbs  for  soups,  are  prepared  in 
this  way :  Cut  slices  of  stale  home-made  bread  half 
an  inch  thick,  trim  off  all  crust,  and  cut  each  slice 
into  squares  ;  fry  these  in  very  hot  fat ;  drain  them 
on  a  clean  napkin,  and  add  six  or  eight  to  each  por- 
tion of  soup.  —  Fifty  Soups  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey. 
White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Marrow  Dumplings  for  Soups. 

Grate  the  crust  of  a  breakfast  roll,  and  break  the 
remainder  into  crumbs  ;  soak  these  in  cold  milk ; 
drain,  and  add  two  ounces  of  flour ;  chop  up  half  a 
pound  of  beef-marrow  freed  from  skin  and  sinews ; 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  mix  all  together 
thoroughly,  if  too  moist  add  some  of  the  grated 
crumbs ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  form  into  small 
round  dumplings ;  boil  them  in  the  soup  for  half 
an  hour  before  serving.  —  Fifty  Soups  :  Tliomas  J. 
Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 

To  make  vermicelli  soup,  take  as  much  good  stock 
as  you  require  for  your  tureen  ;  strain,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  vermicelli.  Let 
it  simmer  for  half  an  hour  by  a  slow  fire,  that  the 
vermicelli  may  not  break.     The  soup  ought  not  to 


12  NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

be  very  thick.  Half  a  pound  of  vermicelli  is  suffi- 
cient for  eight  or  ten  persons.  —  Godey's  Lady's 
Book.     {By  per.  Pub.) 

Noodles  for  Soup. 

Beat  up  one  egg ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  ;  roll  out  in  a  very  thin 
sheet ;  dredge  with  flour  to  keep  from  sticking ;  then 
roll  up  tightly ;  begin  at  one  end,  and  shave  down 
fine  like  cabbage  for  slaw.  —  Presbyterian  Cook 
Book,  Dayton,  O.     (By  per.) 


CHAPTER    II. 


FISH    AND    SHELL-FISH. 


FISH   AND    SHELL-FISH. 

We  break  from  the  tree-groups,  a  glade  deep  with  grass ; 

The  white  clover's  breath  loads  the  sense  as  we  pass. 

A  sparkle  —  a  streak  —  a  broad  glitter  is  seen, 

The  bright  Callikoon  through  its  thickets  of  green ! 

"We  rush  to  the  banks  —  its  sweet  music  we  hear ; 

Its  gush,  dash,  and  gurgle,  all  blent  to  the  ear. 

No  shadows  are  drawn  by  the  cloud-covered  sun. 

We  plunge  in  the  crystal,  our  sport  is  begun. 

Our  line,  where  that  ripple  shoots  onward  we  throw ; 

It  sweeps  to  the  foam-spangled  eddy  below. 

A  tremor  —  a  pull  —  the  trout  upward  is  thrown. 

He  swings  to  our  basket  —  the  prize  is  our  own ! 

Street. 


To  Fry  Trout. 

For  those  who  love  the  real  taste  of  this  excellent 
fish,  there  is  no  better  way  of  dressing  them  than 
plain  frying.  It  gives  a  crispness  to  the  flesh,  and 
leaves  its  high  flavor  entire.  Cut  and  clean  the 
trout,  wash  them,  dry  them  perfectly  with  napkins ; 
cut  the  sides  and  back  slightly  with  a  very  fine 
knife,  strew  a  little  salt  over  them,  and  then  dredge 
them  with  flour ;  set  on  a  pan  with  some  clarified 
butter,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the  trout ;  fry  them 
to  a  delicate  brown,  and  send  them  up  in  a  napkin, 
garnished  with  fried  parsley.  —  Virginia  Cookery- 
Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers, 
Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Green  Turtle  Steak,  Epicurean. 

Raw  turtle  steaks  may  be  had  at  any  first-class 
restaurant,  and  occasionally  at  the  fish-stands.     It  is 

J5 


1 6  BOILED  BASS. 

not  advantageous  for  small  families  to  purchase 
whole  turtles,  or  rather  tortoises,  for  soup  and 
steaks.  Trim  away  the  thigh-bone,  and  flatten  the 
meat  in  the  form  of  a  steak.  Melt  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  chafing-dish  ;  when  very  hot,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  tablespoonful  of 
currant-jelly,  a  gill  of  port  wine,  and  a  little  salt. 
Stew  the  steak  in  this  until  tender,  and  serve  from 
the  chafing-dish.  —  The  Book  of  Entrees  :  Thomas 
J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Boiled  Bass. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  but  do  not  split  it  or  re- 
move the  head  and  tail.  Sew  up  in  a  piece  of  mos- 
quito-netting fitted  to  the  shape  of  the  fish.  Have 
in  the  fish-kettle  plenty  of  boiling  water,  in  which 
have  been  mixed  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a 
dozen  peppercorns,  two  Or  three  blades  of  mace,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Cook  ten  minutes  for  each 
pound,  and  ten  minutes  over.  Undo  the  cloth,  lay 
the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of 
drawn  butter  seasoned  with  a  tablespoonful  of  ca- 
pers and  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine.  Pass  mashed  potatoes  with  it.  —  Marion  Har- 
land.     The  Post,  Washington,  D.C.     (By  per.) 

Roast  Sturgeon. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan  with  a  clove  of 
garlic.  Put  into  it  a  good  bit  of  butter  or  clarified 
fat,  a  pinch  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  a  chopped 
onion,  and  any  herb  you  like  the  flavor  of.     Add  a 


SALMON  BROILED.  lj 

half  pint  of  cold  water  and  a  gill  of  vinegar ;  let  it 
cook  all  together,  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
As  soon  as  it  is  all  blended,  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  when  it  is  lukewarm  put  in  the  thick  slices  of 
sturgeon,  which  you  have  previously  trimmed  and 
cleaned.  Let  them  lie  in  this  sauce  for  three  hours, 
turning  them  over  now  and  then.  Take  from  the 
sauce,  drain,  and  roast  on  a  spit  before  a  slow  fire, 
basting  them  continually  with  the  sauce.  This  is 
the  roast  fish  of  the  Italian  monasteries.  It  must 
be  served  on  a  very  hot  dish.  —  Public  Ledger, 
Philadelphia.     {By  per.  Editor  of  The  Household) 

Salmon  Broiled. 

Cut  the  fish  in  slices  from  the  best  part ;  each 
slice  should  be  an  inch  thick ;  season  well  with  pep- 
per and  salt ;  wrap  each  slice  in  white  paper  which 
has  been  buttered  with  fresh  butter ;  fasten  each  end 
by  twisting  or  tying  ;  broil  over  a  very  clear  fire 
eight  minutes.  A  coke  fire,  if  kept  clear  and  bright, 
is  best.  Serve  with  butter  or  tomato  -  sauce.  — 
American  Home  -  Cook-Book.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald, 
Pubs.     {By  per) 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

One  pound  cooked  salmon,  or  about  one  and  one- 
half  pints  when  chopped,  one  cup  of  cream,  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one 
pint  crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt. 

This  recipe  is  for  cold  boiled  salmon.  A  pound 
can  of  salmon  will  not  hold  the  same  bulk,  as  there 
is  always  some  liquor  which  must  be  drained  off ;  so, 


1 8        FILLETS  OF  HALIBUT  A  LA   POULETTE. 

if  canned  salmon  is  used,  the  cream  and  other  ingre- 
dients must  be  graded  in  proportion  to  the  bulk  of 
salmon  used.  Be  sure  to  remove  all  bits  of  bone  and 
skin,  and  then  chop  the  fish. 

Add  the  flour  to  the  butter,  and  mix  thoroughly 
together.  Put  the  cream  into  a  saucepan,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter,  then 
the  salmon  and  seasoning.  Boil  for  one  minute. 
Stir  into  it  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  remove  from 
the  fire.  Then  set  the  mixture,  which  will  be  quite 
thin,  away  on  the  ice  to  get  perfectly  cold.  Then 
shape  into  croquettes,  as  with  other  mixtures,  and 
fry. 

Croquettes  of  any  sort  are  much  better  if  allowed 
to  stand,  after  being  made  and  shaped,  until  thor- 
oughly chilled.  And  when  they  are  put  into  the  fry- 
ing basket,  be  careful  to  let  none  of  them  touch  each 
other.  — Mrs.  Daniell:  (No.  5)  Boston  Cooking  School. 
From  The  Globe,  Boston,  Mass.     (By  per.) 

Fillets  of  Halibut  a  la  Poulette. 

Take  three  pounds  of  sliced  halibut,  one-half  cup- 
ful butter,  two  large  onions,  juice  of  one  lemon, 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper. 

If  you  buy  halibut  in  a  whole  piece,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it,  and  you  can  then  skin  it  easily.  Free 
the  fish  from  skin  and  bone,  and  cut  into  slices  one- 
half  inch  thick.  Cut  these  into  strips  about  three 
inches  long  and  two  inches  wide.  Lay  on  a  platter, 
and  sprinkle  with  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
lay  a  thin  slice  of  onion  on  each  strip.  The  lemon- 
juice  had  been  squeezed  out,  and  was  all  ready  in  a 


FRIED  FLOUNDERS.  1 9 

cup.  If  you  have  to  let  lemon -juice  stand  for  any 
length  of  time,  said  Mrs.  Daniell,  be  sure  you  leave 
no  seeds  in  it,  as  they  will  make  it  bitter.  Cover  the 
fish  as  prepared  above,  and  set  away  for  half  an  hour. 
After  the  fish  has  set  for  half  an  hour,  remove  the 
slices  of  onion.  Have  a  cup  of  butter  melted  in  a 
soup-plate ;  dip  the  strips  into  the  butter,  roll  them 
up  and  pin  with  a  little  wooden  toothpick  or  skewer ; 
dip  in  the  butter  again,  and  place  on  a  tin  pan,  and 
dredge  thickly  with  flour.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  rings, 
and  rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  to  a  finevpowder. 
When  the  fish  is  cooked,  spread  the  rolls  upon  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  little  skewers,  pour  whip  sauce 
around  the  fish,  scatter  the  grated  yolks  over  it,  and 
use  the  whites  as  a  garnish.  (Very  nice  indeed.)  — 
Mrs.  Daniell:  (No.  5)  Boston  Cooking  School.  From 
Boston  Globe. 

Fried  Flounders. 

Clean  the  fish,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  dredge  them  well  with  flour.  Put  them  in 
hot  fat,  and  fry  brown,  turning  them  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  the  fish.  —  American  Home  Cook- 
Book. 

Broiled  Mackerel. 

"  Prepare,  by  boiling  a  short  time,  a  little  fennel, 
parsley,  and  mint.  When  done,  chop  all  together 
fine ;  mix  a  piece  of  butter  with  it,  a  dust  of  flour, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Cut  the  fish  down  the  back,  and 
fill  it  with  this  stuffing.  Oil  the  gridiron,  and  oil  the 
fish.     Broil  over  a  clear,  slow  fire." 


20  FRIED    WHITEFISH,  FRESH. 

Fried  Whitefish,  Fresh. 

Hash,  and  drain  well ;  dredge  thickly  with  flour, 

and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Put  on  in  a  skillet 

containing  sufficient    boiling  hot  sweet  lard ;  cover, 

and  fry  slowly.     When  a  nice  brown  on  one  side, 

turn    over,    and    cook    until    done.  —  Miss    Lizzie 

Strohm. 

Scalloped  Fish. 

Any  cold  fresh  fish,  or  cold  boiled  salt  codfish, 
must  be  pulled  into  fine  flakes,  carefully  taking  out 
skin  and  bones  and  dark  parts ;  mix  in  a  bowl  with 
equal  quantity  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery-salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  very 
little  juice  squeezed  from  a  cut  onion,  and  a  very 
little  red  pepper  if  preferred ;  moisten  the  mixture 
well  with  a  gravy  made  of  melted  butter,  flour,  and 
hot  water  ;  put  into  a  baking-dish,  cover  with  dry 
crumbs  and  thickly  strewn  bits  of  butter ;  bake  till 
brown.  This  is  a  pretty  dish  for  supper,  baked  in 
small  tin  or  earthen  shells,  or  in  the  great  sea-clam 
shells  found  on  the  ocean  shore,  or  in  the  blue  crock- 
ery dishes  that  are  sold  for  such  purposes.  Serve 
very  hot. — Mrs.  Rose  Terry  Cooke.  {By  per.  Pub.  of 
Good  Housekeeping) 

Fish  Jelly. 

Take  a  two-pound  haddock,  one  onion,  and  half 
rind  lemon ;  just  cover  with  water,  and  boil ;  remove 
all  the  bones  and  skin  ;  flake  the  fish,  or  pound  it  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Put  back  the  bones,  reduce  the  liquor 
vO  one  pint,  add  a  quarter  of  a  packet  of  gelatine 


TO  MAKE   A    GOOD   FORCEMEAT.  21 

(previously  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a  tumbler  of 
cold  water).  Make  some  veal  forcemeat,  without 
suet,  roll  in  small  balls,  and  drop  into  boiling  water ; 
they  will  cook  in  seven  minutes.  Decorate  a  mould 
with  the  balls  and  rings  of  lemon,  mix  the  strained 
liquor  with  the  pounded  fish,  and,  when  nearly  cold, 
pour  into  the  mould.  Hard-boiled  eggs  may  be 
added.  Cod  or  any  remains  of  cold  fish  can  be  made 
over  in  this  way. 

To  Make  a  Good  Forcemeat. 

Chop  a  slice  of  lean  veal  and  a  slice  of  boiled  ham 
together,  add  a  bay-leaf  crumbled  fine,  a  little  sweet 
basil.  —  Public  Ledger,  Pliiladelphia. 

Stewed  Eels. 

"  Boil  them  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  some 
parsley,  which  should  be  served  up  with  them  and 
the  liquor.     Chopped  parsley  and  butter  for  sauce." 

Fried  Eels. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eels.     If  large,  cut  them  into 

pieces ;  if  small,  skewer  them  round,  and  fry  them 

whole.     First  dust  them  over  with  flour,  then  rub 

them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle  them 

with  bread-crumbs.     Put   them  in  boiling  lard,  and 

fry   until    nicely   browned.  —  Peterson 's  Magazine. 

(By  per.) 

Oyster  Patties. 

Cover  small  shells  or  patty-pans  with  a  nice  puff 
paste  ;  bake  them  well ;  when  done,  turn  them  out 
en  a  plate ;  stew  oysters,  season  them  to  suit  the 


22      OYSTERS  FRIED    TO    THE   QUEEN'S   TASTE. 

taste,  thicken  their  juice  with  egg,  and  when  coH 
fill  the  patties  with  the  oysters. 

Oysters  Fried  to  the  Queen's  Taste. 

Small  ones  are  just  as  toothsome  for  grilling,  but 

large,  plump  specimens  present  a  better  appearance. 

Keep  if  possible  a  soapstone  griddle  expressly  for 

cooking  them,  and  let  it  heat  slowly  on  the  back  of 

the   range  at   least   an   hour   before   needed.     The 

oysters    cannot   be   drained  too  long  or  too   well, 

for  one  of  the  secrets  of  success  is  to  have  them 

perfectly  dry.     Ten  hours  is   not   too   long  to   let 

them  stand  in  the  colander ;  first  place  them  under 

a  stream  of  water  for  three  or  four  minutes  to  wash 

off  all  impurities,  wipe  lightly  afterward  with  a  thin 

cloth,   and    place    in    the   ice-chest   until   wanted  ; 

but   if  desired   unexpectedly,  sop   between   towels, 

lightly  patting  out  the  moisture  until  dry.     When 

ready  to  cook  them,  move  the  griddle  to  a  hot  part 

of  the  stove,  and  grease  it  very  slightly  with  fresh 

butter;  lay  on  the  oysters  close  together,  but  not 

crowding ;  and  as  fast  as  browned  nicely,  turn  them 

with  a  spoon,  not  using  a  fork,  for  the  piercing  lets 

out  the  liquor.     When  done,  serve  in  a  very  hot  dish 

with  a  trifle  of  melted  butter.     If  a  griddle  cannot 

be  procured,  a  skillet  or  frying-pan  will  answer,  and 

they  can  either  be  well  shaken  all  the  time,  or  turned 

with  a  spoon.  —  Harper 's  Bazar.     (By  per.  Harper  & 

Brothers?) 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

One  pint  of  oysters  (washed),  the  shells  removed, 
and   then   drained ;   one-third   of   a  cup   of   melted 


BROILED   OYSTERS.  2$ 

butter,  one  cup  of  fine  cracker-crumbs  moistened 
in  the  melted  butter ;  butter  a  shallow  dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  so  on,  having  a  thick  layer 
of  crumbs  on  top ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  min- 
utes, or  until  the  cracker  is  brown.  To  prepare  a 
larger  dish  with  the  same  quantity  of  oysters,  heat 
the  oyster-liquor  and  the  butter  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  milk,  and  use  more  cracker ;  moisten  each 
layer  with  the  hot  liquid;  reserve  the  larger  part 
of  the  butter  for  the  top  layer  of  crumbs.  —  Com- 
mercial Gazette,  Cincinnati,  O.     {By  per.) 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Take  the  largest  and  finest  oysters.  See  that 
your  gridiron  is  very  clean.  Rub  the  bars  with 
fresh  butter,  and  set  it  over  a  clear  steady  fire,  en- 
tirely clear  from  smoke,  or  on  a  bed  of  bright  hot 
wood  coals.  Place  the  oysters  on  the  gridiron,  and 
when  done  on  one  side,  take  a  fork,  and  turn  them  on 
the  other,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  burn.  Put 
some  fresh  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish.  Lay  the 
oysters  on  it,  and  season  them  slightly  with  pepper. 
Send  them  to  table  hot. — American  Home  Cook- 
Book.     {By  per.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald.) 

To  Boil  Hard-shelled  Clams. 

"Wash  the  shells  very  clean,  put  them  in  a  pot 
with  as  little  water  as  will  keep  the  pot  from  burn- 
ing, with  their  edges  down,  and  boil  constantly. 
When  the  shells  open,  they  are  done ;  remove  them, 
have  ready  nice  butter  toast,  and  pour  the  clams  on 


24  CLAM  CHOWDER. 

the  toast,  with  as  much  of  the  juice  as  the  toast  will 
absorb;  add  pepper  if  desired." 

Clam  Chowder. 

"Put  in  a  pot  a  layer  of  sliced  pork,  chopped 
potatoes,  chopped  clams,  salt,  pepper,  and  lumps  of 
butter,  and  broken  crackers  soaked  in  milk ;  cover 
with  the  clam-juice  and  water,  and  stew  slowly  for 
three  hours  ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour ;  it  may  be 
seasoned  with  spices  if  preferred." 

Clam  Scallops. 

Chop  fifty  clams  fine,  and  drain  off  in  a  colander 
all  the  liquor  that  will  come  away.  Mix  this  in  a 
bowl  with  a  cupful  of  crushed  cracker,  half  a  cupful 
of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace 
and  the  same  of  cayenne-pepper.  Beat  into  this 
the  chopped  clams,  and  fill  with  the  mixture  clam- 
shells, or  the  silver  or  stone-china  shell-shaped  dishes 
sold  for  this  purpose.  Bake  to  a  light  brown  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  serve  in  the  shells.  Send  around 
sliced  lemon  with  them.  —  Marion  Harland.  The 
Post,  Washington,  D.C> 

Stewed  Terrapin. 

Of  the  numerous  ways  and  styles  of  preparing 
terrapin,  I  prefer  this  one.  Select  two  six-and-a- 
half  to  seven  inch  terrapins ;  plunge  them  in  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes  ;  take  them  out,  and  when 
cool,  rub  off  the  skin  found  on  the  legs  and  neck; 


LOBSTER   CHOWDER.  2$ 

remove  the  under-shell  carefully ;  next,  remove  the 
liver ;  cut  off  the  gall-bag  from  it,  and  throw  it  away, 
for  the  bursting  of  the  bag  would  spoil  the  whole 
dish.  The  other  parts  to  be  rejected  are  the  claws, 
head,  and  sand-bag  ;  the  remainder  should  be  cut  into 
neat-sized  pieces.  Put  these  in  a  stewpan  or  chaf- 
ing-dish, and  stew  long  enough  to  become  tender  — 
about  one-half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Now 
put  in  a  chafing-dish  a  pat  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little 
flour,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  gill  of  sherry,  two  drops 
of  soy,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  When  hot  beat 
it  with  a  fork,  and  add  the  terrapin,  and  eggs  if  there 
are  any.  The  creamy  sauce  so  universally  met  with 
consists  of  a  combination  of  cream,  butter,  and  eggs, 
which  is  very  nice  for  those  who  like  that  sort  of 
thing.  —  The  Book  of  Entrees  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey. 
White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Lobster  Chowder. 

Meat  of  one  fine  lobster,  picked  out  from  the 
shell  and  cut  into  bits,  one  quart  of  milk,  six  Boston 
crackers  split  and  buttered,  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  scant  quarter-teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  prepared 
flour,  a  pinch  of  soda  in  the  milk.  Scald  the  milk, 
and  stir  in  seasoning,  butter,  and  flour,  cook  one 
minute,  add  the  lobster,  and  simmer  five  minutes. 
Line  a  tureen  with  the  toasted  and  buttered  crackers, 
dipping  each  quickly  in  boiling  water  before  putting 
it  in  place,  and  pour  in  the  chowder.  Send  around 
sliced  lemon  with  it.  — Marion  Harland.  The  Post, 
Washington,  D.C.     {By  per) 


26  LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Lobster  Sauce. 

One  small  lobster,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  of  flour,  one.fifth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  one  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Cut  the  meat  into  dice.  Pound  the  "coral " 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter.  Rub  the  flour 
and  the  remainder  of  the  butter  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  the  water,  pounded  "coral,"  and  butter,  and  the 
seasoning.  Simmer  five  minutes,  and  then  strain  on 
the  lobster.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve.  This  sauce  is 
for  all  kinds  of  boiled  fish.  —  New  Cook-Book  :  Miss 
Maria  Parloa.     Estes  &  Lanriat,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 


CHAPTER    III. 


BEEF,  VEAL,  LAMB,  AND  MUTTON. 


BEEF,    VEAL,    LAMB,    AND    MUTTON. 

"  Tell  me,  dearest  husband,"  Kitty  said, 

"  Before  you  go,  I  pray, 
How  shall  I  get  the  meat  and  bread 

For  our  noon  meal  to-day  ?  " 

"  Buy  them  with  smiles,"  the  husband  cried; 

"  But  that  won't  pay,"  says  she. 
"  Then  take  this  kiss,"  her  lord  replied, 

And  to  his  shop  went  he. 

The  noontime  came,  and  he  came  too ; 

And  the  dinner  was  prepared. 
A  tender  steak  was  in  full  view, 

"  Quite  splendid,"  he  declared. 

He  said  he  wished  to  have  such  meat 

Three  times  a  day  in  future ; 
"  But  tell  me,  love,  for  this  great  treat 

What  did  you  pay  the  butcher  ?  " 

"  W  hat  did  I  pay  ?     I  paid  the  kiss  — 

'Twas  all  you  left,  you  know." 
"  A-a-11  right,"  said  he  ;  "  but,  after  this, 

Take  money  when  you  go." 

Kisses  at  Market  :  Anon. 


French   Beefsteak. 

"  Cut  the  steak  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick  from  a 
fillet  of  beef ;  dip  into  melted  fresh  butter,  lay  them 
on  a  heated  gridiron,  and  broil  over  hot  coals.  When 
nearly  done,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready 
some  parsley  chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with  softened 
butter.  Beat  them  together  to  a  cream,  and  pour 
into  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Dip  each  steak  into  the 
butter,  turning  them  over,  and  lay  them  round  on  the 

29 


30  A   SPANISH  STEAK. 

platter.     If  liked,  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  over, 
and  serve  very  hot." 

A   Spanish    Steak. 

"  Take  the  tenderloin  of  beef.  Have  onions  cut 
fine,  and  put  into  a  frying-pan  with  some  boiling  but- 
ter. When  quite  soft,  draw  them  to  the  back  part  of 
the  pan,  and,  having  seasoned  well  the  beef  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  put  it  in  the  pan,  and  rather  broil  than 
fry  it.  When  done,  put  the  onions  over  it,  and  just  as 
much  boiling  water  as  will  make  a  gravy.  Let  it  stew 
a  few  minutes." 

Roast   Beef. 

Prepare  for  the  oven  by  dredging  lightly  with  flour, 
and  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  place  in  the  oven, 
and  baste  frequently  while  roasting.  Allow  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  for  a  pound  of  meat,  if  you  like  it  rare ; 
longer,  if  you  like  it  well  done.  Serve  with  a  sauce 
made  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  to  which  have 
been  added  a  tablespoonful  of  Harvey  or  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup.  — 
E very-day  Cook-Book:  Miss  Neill.  {By  per.  Belford, 
Clarke,  &  Co.) 

Fried   Beefsteaks. 

Place  the  steak  in  a  pan  in  which  is  an  ounce 
of  hot  butter  or  fat.  Fry  ten  or  twelve  minutes, 
turning  on  each  side  three  times,  and  watching 
that  the  meat  does  not  burn.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  After  removing  the  meat,  a  gravy  may  be 
made  by  adding  a  little  water,  and  thickening  with 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  water. — Arthur's  Home 
Magazine.     {By  per.) 


BEEF  A    LA   MODE.  3  I 

Beef  a  la    Mode. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  beef,  trim  off  the  fat ; 
cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon  into  long,  slender  strips, 
and  lard  the  beef  with  it.  Mix  a  few  cloves,  mace, 
allspice,  peppers,  cayenne,  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
thyme,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic,  with  half  a  pint  of 
malt  vinegar.  Put  the  meat  into  an  earthen  crock, 
with  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  under  it,  add  the  seasoning 
and  a  pint  of  soup-stock,  cover  the  crock,  and  simmer 
six  hours.  When  preferred,  vegetables  may  be  added, 
but  it  is  more  satisfactory  to  cook  them  separately.  — 
The  Book  of  Entrees  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey.  White, 
Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Beef  Stew  or  Hash. 

"  Take  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  beef,  and  slice  into 
small  bits.  Put  on  to  stew  with  six  or  eight  medium- 
sized  potatoes  and  three  large  onions  peeled  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Have  sufficient  water,  that,  when 
done,  it  will  be  rather  juicy  than  dry.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  butter,  if  the  meat 
does  not  make  it  rich  enough."  This  is  a  plain  but 
savory  stew. 

Beefsteak  Pie. 

A  good  common  paste  for  meat  pies,  and  which  is 
intended  to  be  eaten,  is  made  as  follows :  Three 
ounces  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  flour  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  one  dish.  Rub  the  butter  well  amongst 
the  flour  so  as  to  incorporate  them  thoroughly.  If 
the  butter  be  fresh,  add  a  little  salt.  Mix  up  the 
flour  and  butter  with  as  much  cold  water  as  will 


32  BEEFSTEAK  PIE. 

make  a  thick  paste.  Knead  it  quickly  on  a  board, 
and  roll  it  out  flat  with  a  rolling-pin.  Turn  the  dish 
upside  down  upon  the  flattened  paste,  and  cut  or 
shape  out  the  piece  required  for  the  cover.  Roll  out 
the  parings,  and  cut  them  into  strips.  Wet  the  edges 
of  the  dish,  and  place  these  strips  neatly  round  on 
the  edges  as  a  foundation  for  the  cover.  Then  take 
some  slices  of  tender  beef  mixed  with  fat ;  those 
from  the  rump  are  the  best.  Season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  roll  each  slice  up  in  a  small  bundle, 
or  lay  them  flat  in  the  dish.  Put  in  a  little  gravy  or 
cold  water,  and  a  little  flour  for  thickening.  Then, 
after  putting  in  the  meat,  lay  the  cover  on  the  dish, 
pressing  down  the  edges  closely  to  keep  all  tight. 
If  any  paste  remain,  cut  or  stamp  it  into  ornaments, 
such  as  leaves,  and  place  these  as  a  decoration  on 
the  cover. 

On  taking  pies  from  the  oven,  and  while  quite  hot, 
the  crust  may  be  glazed  with  white  of  egg  and  water 
beaten  together,  or  sugar  and  water  laid  on  with  a 
brush.  —  American  Home  Cook-Book.  (By  per. 
Dick  &  Fitzgerald,  Pubs.) 

Such  a  busy  little  woman  as  she  was !  So  full  of  self-importance, 
and  trying  so  hard  not  to  smile  or  seem  uncertain  about  any  thing. 
It  was  a  perfect  treat  to  Tom  to  see  her  with  her  brows  knit,  and  her 
rosy  lips  pursed  up,  kneading  away  at  the  crust,  rolling  it  out,  cutting 
it  up  into  strips,  lining  the  basin  with  it,  shaving  it  off  fine  round  the 
rim;  chopping  up  the  steak  into  small  pieces,  raining  down  pepper 
and  salt  upon  them,  packing  them  into  the  basin,  pouring  in  cold 
water  for  gravy ;  and  never  venturing  to  steal  a  look  in  his  direction, 
lest  her  gravity  should  be  disturbed ;  until  at  last,  the  basin  being 
quite  full  and  only  wanting  the  top  crust,  she  clapped  her  hands,  all 
covered  with  paste  and  flour,  at  Tom,  and  burst  out  heartily  into  such 
a  charming  little  laugh  of  triumph,  that  the  pudding  need  have  had 
no  other  seasoning  to  commend  it  to  the  taste  of  any  reasonable  man 
on  earth.  —  Martin  Chuzzlewit  :  Charles  Dickens. 


YORKSHIRE   PUDDING    WITH  ROAST  BEEF.      33 

Yorkshire  Pudding  with  Roast  Beef. 

"  Five  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  one  of 
salt,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  three  well-beaten  eggs. 
Butter  a  square  pan,  and  put  the  batter  in  it ;  set  it 
in  the  oven  until  it  rises  and  is  slightly  crusted  on 
the  top ;  then  place  it  under  your  beef  roasting  be- 
fore the  fire,  or  in  the  oven,  and  baste  it  as  you  do 
your  meat.  In  serving,  cut  it  in  squares,  and  lay 
around  the  meat  in  the  dish." 

Beef  Loaf. 

Chop  very  fine,  or  have  your  butcher  mince,  two 
pounds  of  coarse,  lean  beef.  Season  spicily  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  summer  savory  or  sweet  mar- 
joram, and  a  cautious  sprinkling  of  minced  onion. 
Beat  two  eggs  light,  and  work  up  with  the  mass. 
Press  hard  into  a  bowl ;  fit  a  saucer  or  plate  (inverted) 
upon  the  meat,  and  set  in  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling 
water  to  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Lay 
a  weight  on  the  surface  when  it  is  done,  and  let  it 
get  perfectly  cold  before  turning  out.  Cut  in  per- 
pendicular slices.  —  Marion  Harland.  The  Post, 
Washington,  D.C.     {By  per) 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef. 

Cut  your  beef  very  thin,  then  pull  it  into  small 
pieces,  taking  out  all  the  strings  of  sinew,  fat,  and 
bits  of  outside  ;  put  it  in  a  frying-pan,  and  cover  with 
cold  water  ;  let  it  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
till  perfectly  tender ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and 
cover  the  beef  with  cream,  add  pepper,  celery-salt, 


34  TO  BOIL    TONGUE. 

and  salt  if  needed ;  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  with  one  heaped  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  stir 
into  the  hot  cream ;  cover,  and  keep  very  hot  till 
served.  —  Mrs.  Rose  Terry  Cooke.  {By  per.  Pub.  of 
Good  Housekeeping?) 

To  Boil  Tongue. 

"  A  tongue  is  so  hard,  whether  prepared  by  drying 
or  pickling,  that  it  requires  much  more  cooking  than 
a  ham  :  nothing  of  its  weight  takes  so  long  to  dress 
properly. 

"  A  tongue  that  has  been  salted  and  dried  should 
be  put  to  soak  (if  it  is  old  and  very  hard,  twenty-four 
hours  before  it  is  wanted)  in  plenty  of  water  ;  one 
fresh  from  the  pickle  requires  soaking  only  a  few 
hours.  Put  the  tongue  into  plenty  of  cold  water, 
with  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  let  it  be  an  hour 
gradually  warming,  and  give  it  from  three  and  a  half 
to  four  hours  very  slow  simmering,  according  to  the 
size. 

"When  you  choose  a  tongue,  endeavor  to  learn 
how  long  it  has  been  dried  or  pickled  ;  pick  out  the 
plumpest  and  that  which  has  the  smoothest  skin, 
which  denotes  its  being  young  and  tender." 

Ragout  of  Liver. 

Heat  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  nice  dripping  in  a 
frying-pan  ;  add  an  onion  sliced,  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  thrice  as  much  minced  breakfast- 
bacon  ;  when  all  are  hissing  hot,  lay  in  the  liver  cut  in 
pieces  as  long  and  wide  as  your  middle  finger,  and  fry 
brown,  turning  often  ;  take  out  the  liver,  and  keep 


VEAL  SWEETBREAD.  35 

warm  in  a  covered  hot-water  dish ;  strain  the  gravy, 
rinse  out  the  frying-pan,  and  return  to  the  fire  with 
the  gravy  and  an  even  tablespoonful  of  butter  worked 
up  well  in  two  of  browned  flour.  Stir  until  you  have 
a  smooth  browned  roux  ;  thin  gradually  with  half  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  pickle  and  a  scant  half- 
teaspoonful  of  curry-powder  wet  with  cold  water. 
Boil  sharply,  pour  over  the  liver  ;  put  fresh  boiling 
water  in  the  pan  under  the  dish,  and  let  all  stand 
closely  covered  for  ten  minutes  before  serving.  — 
Marion  Harland.     The  Post,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Veal  Sweetbread. 

"  Trim  a  fine  sweetbread ;  parboil  it  for  five  min- 
utes, and  throw  it  into  a  basin  of  cold  water.  When 
the  sweetbread  is  cold,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  cloth  ; 
run  a  skewer  through  it ;  egg  it  with  a  paste-brush, 
powder  it  well  with  bread-crumbs,  and  roast  it." 

Fricandeau  a  l'Oseille. 

Procure  a  piece  of  veal  cut  from  the  leg,  and  about 
one  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness  ;  the  small  round 
bone  in  the  middle  may  be  either  left  or  removed. 
Lard  it  well  with  salt  pork ;  put  into  a  bake-pan  one 
ounce  of  salt  pork  to  two  pounds  of  veal,  two  or  three 
slices  of  onion,  as  many  of  carrot,  as  many  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  half  a  bay-leaf ;  lay  the  veal  over  the 
whole  ;  add  just  broth  enough  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pan,  and  a  little  salt ;  set  in  the  oven,  and 
baste  now  and  then.  If  the  juice  is  absorbed,  and 
there  is  not  enough  to  baste,  add  a  little  more  broth. 


36      pur£e  d'oseille  {pur£e  of  sorrel). 

Bear  in  mind  that  veal    must  always  be  overdone. 
Serve  on  a  purge of  sorrel.  — Pierre  Blot. 

Puree  d'Oseille  (Puree  of  Sorrel). 

Throw  the  sorrel,  when  cleaned  and  washed,  into 
boiling  water  ;  at  the  first  boiling,  and  as  soon  as 
tender,  turn  into  a  colander ;  press  it  to  extract  the 
water,  and  then  chop  it.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan  on  the 
Eire,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  for  five  minutes ; 
.add  a  little  broth  ;  stir  another  five  minutes,  spread 
it  around  a  dish,  place  the  veal  in  the  middle,  pour 
the  gravy  all  over  it,  and  serve.  — Pierre  Blot. 

Stewed   Veal. 

"  Cut  the  veal  in  small  bits,  stew  in  a  little  water 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  until  tender;  thicken 
with  a  little  flour." 

Braised  Veal. 

Chop  a  half  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  fine,  and  put 
half  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  broad  pot ;  sprinkle  it 
with  minced  onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  carrot.  Lay  a  breast  of  veal  on  this  bed, 
and  cover  it  with  a  similar  layer.  Pour  in  carefully 
a  quart  of  weak  broth,  if  you  have  it ;  if  not,  cold 
water ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Fit  a  tight  lid 
on  the  pot,  and  set  where  it  will  cook  slowly  —  very 
slowly  —  for  two  hours  at  least.  Now  take  up  the 
meat,  rub  butter  all  over  it,  and  dredge  thickly  with 
browned  flour.  Put  it  into  a  dripping-pan ;  strain 
the  gravy  from  the  pot  into  tins,  not  pouring  it  on 


VEAL   AND  RICE.  37 

the  meat,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  good  oven, 
basting  every  five  minutes  with  the  gravy.  Transfer 
the  veal  to  a  hot  dish ;  thicken  the  gravy  in  the 
pan  with  browned  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  boil  up, 
and  serve  in  a  boat.  —  Marion  Harland.  The  Post, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Veal  and  Rice. 

Put  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of  veal,  which  you  can 
usually  buy  for  ten  cents,  into  a  pot  half  full  of  boil- 
ing water,  with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  half 
a  pound  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  (cost  six  cents),  half  a 
pound  of  rice  (cost  five  cents),  and  an  onion  stuck 
with  six  cloves ;  boil  it  gently  for  three  hours,  and 
then  serve  it  hot ;  put  the  meat  in  the  middle  of  the 
platter,  and  the  rice  laid  around  it.  —  Twenty-five- 
Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson.     {By  per)) 

Mutton  au  Chou. 

Bake  a  leg  or  a  breast  of  mutton  in  the  oven,  bast- 
ing it  well,  and  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done  put  in 
the  pan  a  cabbage,  chopped  fine  as  for  cold  slaw. 
The  cabbage  will  cook  in  the  rich  gravy,  and  the 
basting  must  be  continued  so  as  to  give  the  gravy  all 
possible  taste  of  the  osmazome  of  the  meat, — the 
browned  crust  that  gives  the  flavor  and  pleasant  odor 
in  all  roasting  or  baking  meats. — Philadelphia  Ledger. 
{By  per?) 

Mutton  Steaks. 

"  They  should  be  broiled  over  a  clear  fire,  seasoned 
when  half  done,  and  often  turned.     Take  them  up 


38  STEWED  SHOULDER   OF  MUTTON. 

into  a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  little  butter  over  them,  and 
serve  quite  hot." 

Stewed  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

"  Select  a  shoulder  of  mutton  that  is  not  too  fat ; 
bone  it,  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  for  two  hours  and 
a  half.  Take  it  up,  put  a  little  cold  butter  over  it, 
and  then  strew  thickly  with  bread-crumbs  and  pars- 
ley, with  pepper  and  salt,  all  properly  mixed ;  and 
let  it  remain  in  the  oven  half  an  hour  to  be  perfectly 
browned." 

A  man  may  feel  thankful,  heartily  thankful,  over  a  dish  of  plain 
mutton  with  turnips.  —  Grace  before  Meat  :  Charles  La?nb. 

Irish  Stew. 

Cut  a  neck  of  mutton  in  pieces,  blanch  the  chops 
in  water,  take  and  put  them  into  another  stewpan 
with  four  onions  cut  in  slices  ;  put  to  it  a  little  stock ; 
let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  have  ready  some 
potatoes  pared  ;  put  them  into  the  stewpan  with  the 
mutton,  with  salt  and  pepper.  As  some  like  the  pota- 
toes whole,  and  some  mashed,  to  thicken  the  stew, 
you  must  boil  them  accordingly.  Dish  the  meat 
round,  and  the  vegetables  in  the  middle. — Arthur  s 
Home  Magazine. 

Breast  of  Lamb,  with  Peas. 

This  part  of  the  lamb  is  always  cheaper  than  other 
portions,  and  not  only  has  this  to  recommend  it,  but 
is  readily  adaptable  to  many  delicate  and  palate-pleas- 
ing dishes,  one  of  which  is  the  following :  Trim  off 


LAMB   CHOPS.  39 

the  skin  and  part  of  the  fat  from  the  breast  of  a  spring 
lamb  ;  cut  the  meat  into  squares  or  triangular  pieces  ; 
dredge  in  flour ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
small  quantity  of  butter  and  herb  seasonings ;  toss 
them  about,  and  brown  them  nicely ;  add  a  pint  of 
soup-stock  to  each  pound  of  meat ;  simmer  until  ten- 
der, and  skim  off  all  surplus  fat.  Just  before  serving, 
add  half  a  can  of  French  peas,  pour  out  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  large  croutons,  and  serve.  The  tops  of 
asparagus,  French  beans,  etc.,  may  be  used  instead 
of  peas.  —  The  Book  of  Entrees  :  Thomas  J. 
Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Lamb  Chops. 

Fry  them  a  light  brown,  in  butter,  then  add  a  little 
water,  flour,  salt,  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  to  the  gravy ; 
let  it  brown,  and  pour  it  over  the  chops. — From 

Peterson's  Magazine.     (By  per.) 

To  Roast  Lamb. 

The  hind-quarter  of  lamb  usually  weighs  from 
seven  to  ten  pounds ;  this  size  will  take  about  two 
hours  to  roast  it.  Have  a  brisk  fire.  It  must  be 
very  frequently  basted  while  roasting,  and  sprinkled 
with  a  little  salt,  and  dredged  all  over  with  flour, 
about  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done. 

All  joints  of  roast  lamb  may  be  garnished  with 
double  parsley,  and  served  up  with  either  asparagus 
and  new  potatoes,  spring  spinach  and  new  potatoes, 
green  peas  and  new  potatoes,  or  with  cauliflowers 
or  French  beans  and  potatoes  ;  and  never  forget  to 
send  up  mint  sauce.     The  following  will  be  found  an 


40  TO  ROAST  LAMB. 

excellent  receipt  for  mint  sauce  :  With  three  heaped 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  young  mint,  mix 
two  of  pounded  and  sifted  sugar,  and  six  of  the  best 
vinegar;  stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  —  Godey's 
Lady's  Book.     (Byfler.) 


CHAPTER    IV. 
PORK. 


PORK. 

Of  all  the  delicacies  in  the  whole  mundus  edibilis,  I  will  maintain 
it  to  be  the  most  delicate  — frinceps  obsoniorum.  .  .  .  There  is  no 
flavor  comparable,  I  will  contend,  to  that  of  the  crisp,  tawny,  well- 
watched,  not  over-roasted,  crackling,  as  it  is  well  called,  —  the  very 
teeth  are  invited  to  their  share  of  the  pleasure  at  this  banquet  in  over- 
coming the  coy,  brittle  resistance, — with  the  adhesive  oleaginous  — 
oh,  call  it  not  fat,  but  an  indefinable  sweetness  growing  up  to  it; 
the  tender  blossoming  of  fat;  fat  cropped  in  the  bud,  taken  in  the 
shoot,  in  the  first  innocence ;  the  cream  and  quintessence  of  the 
child-pig's  yet  pure  food;  the  lean,  no  lean,  but  a  kind  of  animal 
manna ;  or  rather,  fat  and  lean  (if  it  must  be  so)  so  blended  and  run- 
ning into  each  other,  that  both  together  make  but  one  ambrosial  result, 
or  common  substance. —  A  Dissertation  upon  Roast  Pig:  Charles 
Lamb. 


Roast  Pig. 

Soak  in  milk  some  light  bread ;  boil  some  sage  and 
onions  in  plenty  of  water,  strain  it  off,  and  chop  it 
very  fine ;  press  the  milk  from  the  bread,  and  then 
mix  the  sage  and  onion  with  pepper  and  salt ;  in  the 
bread  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind  it  a  little ;  put 
this  in  the  inside  of  the  pig ;  rub  the  pig  over  with 
milk  and  butter,  paper  it,  roast  it  a  beautiful  brown. 
Cut  off  the  head  before  it  is  drawn  from  the  spit,  and 
likewise  cut  it  down  the  back,  and  then  you  will  not 
break  the  skin  :  take  out  the  spit,  cut  off  the  ears 
from  the  head,  and  crack  the  bone,  and  take  out  the 
brains ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  all  the  inside 
stuffing  and  a  little  brown  sauce ;  dish  the  pig,  the 
back  outside,  and  put  the  sauce  in  the  middle  and 
some  in  a  boat,  the  ears  at  each  end. — American 
Home  Cook-Book.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald,  Puds.  {By 
per.) 

43 


44  SPARE-RIB. 

Spare-Rib. 

A  spare-rib  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half  to  roast ; 
if  very  large,  three  hours.  If  not  already  salted, 
sprinkle  with  some,  and  while  roasting  baste  with 
butter  and  dredge  with  flour  ;  about  twenty  minutes 
before  it  is  done,  sift  a  little  powdered  sage  over  it.  — 
Arthur'' s  Home  Magazine. 

Pork  Steaks. 

"  Cut  them  from  a  loin  or  neck,  not  too  thick,  pep- 
per and  broil  them,  turning  often ;  when  nearly  done, 
add  salt,  rub  a  piece  of  butter  over,  and  serve  hot." 

Tenderloin  on  Toast. 

"  Cut  pork  tenderloins  in  very  thin  slices ;  stew 

them  in  a  little  water  till  they  are  nearly  done  ;  then 

put  a  little  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  fry  them  till  light 

brown.     Serve  on  buttered  toast  and  raw  tomatoes 

sliced  thin." 

Pork  Fritters. 

Have  at  hand  a  thick  batter  of  Indian  meal  and 
flour ;  cut  a  few  slices  of  pork,  and  fry  them  in  the 
frying-pan  until  the  fat  is  fried  out ;  cut  a  few  more 
slices  of  the  pork,  dip  them  in  the  batter,  and  drop 
them  in  the  bubbling  fat,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  cook  until  brown,  and  eat  while  hot.  — Every- 
day Cook-Book  :  Miss  E.  Neill. 

Salt  Pork  and  Apples. 

"  Cut  half  a  pound  of  nicely  cured  pork  in  slices  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  fry  them  slowly  until  brown 
in  a  deep  frying-pan,  and  take  them  up  on  a  hot  dish. 


BACON  AND  EGGS.  45 

Meantime  wash,  wipe,  and  slice  six  sour  apples,  and 
when  the  pork  is  taken  up  put  them  into  the  frying- 
pan  to  cook  until  they  are  tender,  but  not  broken. 
Lay  them  on  a  dish  with  the  pork,  and  serve  them 

hot." 

Bacon  and  Eggs. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  streaked  bacon,  cut 
it  into  thin  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  frying-pan 
over  a  slow  fire  ;  take  care  to  turn  them  frequently  ; 
when  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  out,  and  break  into 
the  hot  fat  seven  or  eight  eggs.  Cook  more  or  less 
according  to  taste,  and  serve  with  the  bacon.  — 
Arthur  s  Home  Magazine. 

Oh  !  'tis  eggs  are  a  treat, 

When  so  white  and  so  sweet, 
From  under  the  manger  they're  taken, 

And  by  fair  Margery  — 

Och  !  'tis  she's  full  of  glee  — 
They  are  fried  with  fat  rashers  of  bacon. 

Father  Pront  's  Relics. 

To  Boil  Pickled  Pork. 

Having  washed  and  scraped  it,  put  it  into  boiling 

water  with  the  skin-side  uppermost.     If  it  be  thin, 

a  piece  of  four  pounds  will  be  done  in  less  than  an 

hour  ;  a  leg  of  eight  pounds  will  take  three  hours. 

Pork  should  be  done  enough,  but  if  boiled  too  fast 

or  too  long  it  will  become  jelly.     Keep  the  pot  well 

skimmed,  and  send  it  to  table  with  peas-pudding  and 

greens.     Some  persons  like  carrots,  parsnips  also.  — 

American    Home  Cook-Book.     Dick  &  Fitzgerald, 

Pubs.    (By  per.) 

Soused  Pig's  Feet. 

Take  the  ears,  feet,  and  upper  part  of  the  head ; 
scrape  clean,  boil  until  the  meat  is  tender ;  take  it 


4-6  JELLY  OF  PICS  FEET  AND  EARS. 

up ;  flavor  properly,  and  put  into  pure  vinegar ;  spice 
as  you  like.  Put  it  in  a  jar,  and  keep  closely  cov- 
ered. Tripe  can  be  pickled  in  the  same  way.  — 
American  Home  Cook-Book. 

Jelly  of  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears. 

Clean  and  prepare  as  for  soused  pig's  feet,  then 
boil  them  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  water  till  every 
bone  can  be  taken  out ;  throw  in  half  a  handful  of 
chopped  sage,  the  same  of  parsley,  and  a  seasoning 
of  pepper,  salt,  and  mace,  in  fine  powder ;  simmer 
till  the  herbs  are  scalded,  then  pour  the  whole  into 
a  melon  form.  — American  Home  Cook-Book. 

To  Boil  a  Ham. 

If  the  ham  has  been  long  cured,  soak  it  in  cold 
water  for  from  twelve  to  twenty  hours.  Scrape  it, 
and  put  it  into  a  large  vessel  to  boil  with  plenty  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  from  three  to 
four  or  five  hours  according  to  the  size.  A  ham 
of  twenty  pounds  will  require  four  hours  and  a  half. 
Skim  the  pot  frequently  to  remove  the  grease  as  it 
rises.  When  done,  strip  off  the  rind,  and  strew 
bread-raspings  over  the  top  side,  then  set  it  before 
the  fire,  or  in  the  oven,  to  dry  and  brown.  —  Amer- 
ican Home  Cook-Book. 

To  Broil  Ham. 

Cut  the  ham  about  a  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
broil  it  very  quickly  over  a  brisk  fire ;  lay  it  on  a 
hot  dish,  pepper  it,  and  put  on  it  a  good  lump  of 
butter.  —  American  Home  Cook-Book, 


CHAPTER   V. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Two  swift-winged  hours  will  bring  the  time 
When  sounds  the  sabbath  supper  chime ; 
And  I'll  desert  my  easy  nest 
To  reach  the  board  before  the  rest,  — 
To  reach  the  board  so  white  and  neat, 
That  I  may  something  have  to  eat. 

I  know  just  what  the  feast  will  be  : 
Some  bread  cut  thin,  and  weakly  tea, 
Some  cheap  and  highly-colored  jam, 
Some  slices  of  transparent  ham, 
Some  Gorgonzola,  —  Jersey  make, — 
Some  tiny  bits  of  frosted  cake. 

The  napery  will  be  as  white 
As  all  the  silverware  is  bright ; 
The  cups  and  saucers,  fragile,  thin, 
Would  suit  a  captious  mandarin; 
And  then  the  waiter,  black  as  night, 
Will  be  both  constant  and  polite. 

To  cheer  the  fond  aesthetic  heart, 
The  boarders  will  converse  on  art, 
The  drama,  music,  poesy, 
And  politics,  to-night  at  tea  ; 
And  Clara  Vere  de  Vere  will  chat 
About  the  latest  Paris  hat. 

A  good  meal  makes  a  merrier  heart 
Than  all  your  high  aesthetic  art. 
When  one  is  hungry,  frescoed  walls 
Can't  take  the  place  of  codfish  balls ; 
No  substitutes  are  painted  screens 
And  porcelain,  for  pork  and  beans ; 
A  banquet  may  be  all  that's  sweet, 
Even  though  all  be  incomplete 
That's  alien  to  the  things  to  eat. 

The  Sabbath  Supper  Chime:  Puck.     {By per.  Ed) 


Codfish  Balls. 

Pick  up  as  fine  as  possible  a  teacup  of  nice  white 
codfish.     Freshen    all  night,  or,  if   wanted   for  any 

49 


50  BAKED  BEANS. 

other  meal  than  breakfast,  from  the  morning  ;  scald 
it  once,  and  drain  off  the  water ;  chop  and  work  it 
until  entirely  fine ;  put  it  in  a  basin  with  water,  a  bit 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  eggs ;  beat  it 
thoroughly,  and  heat  it  until  it  thickens,  without 
boiling.  It  should,  when  all  is  mixed,  be  about  a 
quart.  Have  some  potatoes  ready  prepared  and 
nicely  mashed ;  work  the  fish  and  potatoes  thoroughly 
together  as  above,  make  it  in  flat  cakes,  and  brown 
both  sides.  This  is  a  very  nice  dish,  as  all  who 
have  tried  it  allow.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.  (By per. 
Pub) 

Baked  Beans. 

The  small  white  beans  are  the  best  for  baking. 
Pick  out  the  bad  ones  ;  wash,  and  soak  over  night  in 
lukewarm  water.  Early  the  next  morning  set  them 
where  they  will  boil,  adding  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  saleratus. 
When  partially  done,  take  them  out  of  the  water 
with  a  skimmer,  and  put  them  in  an  earthen  jar  or 
crock,  salting  them  at  the  same  time.  Gash  about  a 
pound  of  pork  in  narrow  strips,  put  it  with  the 
beans  in  such  a  way  that  all  the  rind  will  be  covered. 
Turn  in  water  until  you  can  just  see  it  at  the  top. 
Bake  the  beans  from  two  to  five  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  beans  when  done  should  be  of  a  nice  even 
brown  over  the  top,  the  pork  tender,  and  the  rind 
crispy. — Arthur 's  Home  Magazine.     {By  per.  Pubs.) 

"  Liver  ?  "  said  Toby,  communing  with  himself.  "  No,  there's  a 
mildness  about  it  that  don't  answer  to  liver.  Pettitoes  ?  No.  It 
ain't  faint  enough  for  pettitoes.  It  wants  the  stringiness  of  cocks' 
heads.  And  I  know  it  ain't  sausages.  I'll  tell  you  what  it  is.  It's 
chitterlings ! " 

"  No,  it  ain't !  "  cried  Meg,  in  a  burst  of  delight.     "  No,  it  ain't !  " 
"  Why,  what  am  I  a-thinking  of  1  "  said  Toby,  suddenly  recovering 


STEWED    TRIPE.  5 1 

a  position  as  near  the   perpendicular  as  it  was  possible  for  him  to 
assume.     "  I  shall  forget  my  own  name  next.     It's  tripe." 

Tripe  it  was ;  and  Meg,  in  high  joy,  protested  he  should  say, 
in  half  a  minute  more,  it  was  the  best  tripe  ever  stewed.  —  The 
Chimes:  Charles  Dickens. 

Stewed  Tripe. 

Select  two  pounds  of  double  tripe  well  cleaned  and 
blanched,  cut  in  pieces  of  rather  less  than  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  each  ;  put  in  a  clean  stewpan  with  a  pint 
of  milk  and  one  of  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  eight  middle-sized  onions  carefully 
peeled.  Set  it  on  to  boil,  which  it  should  do  at  first 
rather  fast,  then  simmer  till  done,  which  will  be  in 
rather  more  than  half  an  hour.  Put  it  into  a  deep 
dish  or  tureen,  and  serve  with  the  milk  and  onions. 
—  Dainty  Dishes  :  Lady  Harriet  St.  Clair. 

Pettitoes. 

"  Boil  them,  the  liver,  and  the  heart,  very  gently 
in  a  little  water ;  then  mince  the  meat  fine,  split  the 
feet,  and  simmer  till  they  are  tender  ;  thicken  with 
flour,  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  cream  ;  add  salt  and 
pepper,  let  it  boil,  pour  it  over  a  few  sippets  of  bread, 
and  put  the  feet  on  the  mince." 

Sausages. 

"  The  proper  seasoning  is  salt,  pepper,  sage,  sum- 
mer savory,  or  thyme  ;  they  should  be  one-third  fat, 
the  remainder  lean,  finely  chopped,  and  the  season- 
ings well  mixed,  and  proportioned  so  that  one  herb 
may  not  predominate  over  the  others.  If  skins  are 
used,  they  cannot  be  prepared  with  too  much  care  ; 
but  they  are  about  as  well  made  into  cakes." 


52       TO  KEEP  SAUSAGE  FRESH  ALL    THE    YEAR. 

To  keep  Sausage  Fresh  all  the  Year. 

"Fry  as  if  for  present  use;  pack  in  stone  jars,  and, 
if  the  grease  that  fries  out  of  the  meat  is  not  suffi- 
cient to  cover  it,  pour  over  hot  lard  so  as  to  cover  it, 
and  entirely  exclude  the  air." 

White  or  Suet  Pudding. 

Two  pounds  of  suet,  four  pounds  of  flour.  Rub 
the  suet  thoroughly  in  the  flour,  until  well  mixed. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  spice  with  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon.  Make  little  muslin  bags 
that  will  hold  about  a  teacupful  of  the  mixture.  Fill 
them,  tie  tightly,  and  boil  slowly  about  half  an  hour. 
Drain  them  off,  and  when  dry  spread  out  on  shallow 
dishes,  and  keep  in  a  good  cupboard.  When  desired 
to  use,  take  one  or  more,  as  may  be  required,  re-boil 
a  while,  then  remove  the  muslin,  and  put  the  pudding 
on  a  patty-pan  or  baking-dish,  and  set  in  the  oven  a 
short  time  to  brown.  Send  to  the  table  hot.  It  >& 
very  nice  to  use  for  breakfast  sometimes,  taking  the 
place  of  sausages,  hash,  and  kindred  dishes. 

To  bake  a  Beef's  Heart. 

Cut  it  open,  remove  the  ventricles,  and  let  it  soak 
an  hour  in  lukewarm  water.  Wipe  dry  with  a  cloth, 
and  parboil  for  twenty  minutes.  Make  a  rich  stuff- 
ing, fill  the  heart  with  it,  and  secure  it  with  a  string. 
Let  it  bake  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours,  with 
half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan.  The  gravy  will  not 
need  any  thickening.  Serve  with  currant  or  any 
acid  jelly. — Arthur 's  Home  Magazine.     {By  per.) 


LAMB'S  HEAD.  53 

Lamb's  Head. 

"  Soak  the  head  well  in  cold  water,  and  boil  it  sepa- 
rately till  very  tender.  Parboil  the  liver  and  lights, 
mince  them  small,  and  stir  them  in  a  little  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled ;  add  seasoning, 
thicken  with  floured  butter,  and  serve  the  head  with 
the  mince  around  it." 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets. 

Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut 
fat  English  bacon  in  very  thin  slices ;  wrap  an  oyster 
in  each  slice,  and  fasten  with  a  little  wooden  skewer 
(tooth-picks  are  the  best  things).  Heat  a  frying-pan, 
and  put  in  the  "little  pigs."  Cook  just  long  enough 
to  crisp  the  bacon,  —  about  two  minutes.  Place  on 
slices  of  toast  that  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  serve  immediately.  Do  not  remove  the  skewers. 
This  is  a  nice  relish  for  lunch  or  tea ;  and,  garnished 
with  parsley,  is  a  pretty  one.  The  pan  must  be  very 
hot  before  the  "pigs  "  are  put  in,  and  then  great  care 
must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  burn.  —  New  Cook- 
Book  :  Miss  Maria  Parloa.  Estes  &  Lauriat,  Pubs. 
{By  per.) 

"  Bubble  and  Squeak." 

Take  from  a  round  of  beef,  which  has  been  well 
boiled  and  cold,  two  or  three  slices,  amounting  to 
about  one  pound  to  one  pound  and  a  half  in  weight, 
two  carrots  which  have  been  boiled  with  the  joint, 
in  a  cold  state,  as  also  the  hearts  of  two  boiled  greens 
that  are  cold.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  dice-formed 
pieces,  and  chop  up  the  vegetables  together ;  pepper 


54  MEAT  PORCUPINE. 

and  salt  the  latter,  and  fry  them  with  the  meat  in  a 
pan  in  a  quarter-pound  of  sweet  butter  ;  when  fully 
done,  add  to  the  pan  in  which  the  ingredients  are 
fried,  half  a  gill  of  fresh  catsup,  and  serve  your 
dish  up  to  the  dinner-table  with  mashed  potatoes.  — 
Godey's  Lady's  Book.     (By per.) 

Meat  Porcupine. 

Chop  fine  some  lean  cooked  veal,  chicken,  or  lamb  ; 
and  one-fourth  its  amount  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 
or  mashed  potato,  and  a  small  quantity  of  chopped 
bacon ;  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and 
lemon-juice ;  moisten  with  beaten  egg  and  stock  or 
water  enough  to  shape  it.  Mould  it  into  an  oval 
loaf,  and  put  into  a  shallow  pan  well  greased.  Cut 
strips  of  fat  bacon  one-fourth  of  an  inch  wide  and 
one  inch  long.  Make  holes  in  the  loaf  with  a  small 
skewer ;  insert  the  strips  of  bacon,  leaving  the  ends 
out  half  an  inch,  and  push  the  meat  up  firmly  round 
the  bacon.  Bake  till  brown.  The  bacon  will  baste 
the  meat  sufficiently.  —  The  Boston  Cook-Book  : 
Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.  (By 
per.) 

Hints  for  Marketing. 

"  Good  fresh  beef  has  a  fine  grain,  and  is  of  a  rich 
carnation  color.  It  is  firm,  but  tender  and  elastic  to 
the  touch.     The  fat  is  yellowish  white  and  firm. 

"  Veal  should  have  firm  white  fat,  and  the  lean 
have  a  pinkish  tinge. 

"The  best  mutton  is  of  a  fine  grain,  a  bright  color, 
the  fat  firm  and  white. 

"  Lamb  should  be  eaten  very  fresh.     In  the  fore- 


HINTS  FOR   MARKETING.  55 

quarter,  the  vein  in  the  neck  being  any  other  color 
than  blue  betrays  it  to  be  stale. 

"  Pork,  when  fresh  and  young,  is  smooth  and  firm, 
and  the  rind  is  thin.  The  lean  must  be  of  a  uniform 
color,  and  the  fat  white  and  not  at  all  streaked. 

"A  good  test  for  ham  is  to  run  a  knife  under  the 
bone ;  if  it  comes  out  clean,  and  smells  agreeably, 
the  ham  is  good. 

"  In  the  selection  of  fish,  make  sure  that  the  eyes 
are  full,  the  gills  bright  red,  and  the  flesh  firm  and 
stiff.  If  the  flesh  is  flabby,  the  eyes  sunken,  and 
the  gills  of  a  dark  color,  the  fish  is  stale.  They 
should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  when  first  procured, 
and  washed  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cleanse  them. 
If  much  water  is  used,  the  flavor  will  be  diminished. 
Sprinkle  salt  in  the  inside,  and  if  they  are  to  be 
broiled,  add  pepper.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  place  till 
you  wish  to  cook  them.  Fresh-water  fish  are  apt  to 
have  an  earthy  taste,  which  may  be  removed  by  soak- 
ing them  in  salt  and  water  after  cleaning.  Most 
kinds  of  salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  ten 
or  twelve  hours  before  cooking. 

"  Flat  fish,  as  a  rule,  keep  better  than  round. 
They  should  be  chosen  for  their  thickness  rather 
than  for  their  size." 


CHAPTER    VI. 


POULTRY 


POULTRY. 

SAM  LAWSON  AND  HIS  TURKEY. 

"  There,  to  be  sure,"  said  Aunt  Lois,  one  day  when  our  prepara- 
tions were  in  full  blast,  "there  comes  Sam  Lawson  down  the  hill, 
limpsy  as  ever ;  now  he'll  have  his  doleful  story  to  tell,  and  mother'll 
give  him  one  of  the  turkeys." 

And  so,  of  course,  it  fell  out.  Sam  came  in  with  his  usual  air  of 
plaintive  assurance,  and  seated  himself  a  contemplative  spectator  in 
the  chimney-corner,  regardless  of  the  looks  and  signs  of  unwelcome 
on  the  part  of  Aunt  Lois. 

"  Lordy  massy,  how  prosperous  every  thing  does  seem  here ! "  he 
Baid  in  musing  tones,  over  his  inevitable  mug  of  cider ;  "  so  different 
from  what  'tis  t'  our  home.  There's  Hepsy,  she's  all  in  a  stew,  an' 
I've  just  been  an'  got  her  thirty-seven  cents  wuth  o'  nutmegs,  yet  she 
says  she's  sure  she  don't  see  how  she's  to  keep  Thanksgiving,  an' 
she's  down  on  me  about  it,  just  as  ef  'twas  my  fault.  Yeh  see,  last 
winter,  our  old  gobbler  got  froze.  You  know,  Mis'  Badger,  that  'ere 
cold  night  we  had  last  winter.  Wal,  I  was  off  with  Jake  Marshall 
that  night :  ye  see,  Jake,  he  hed  to  take  old  Gen.  Dearborn's  corpse 
into  Boston,  to  the  family  vault,  an'  Jake,  he  kind  o'  hated  to  go 
alone.  'Twas  a  drefful  cold  time,  an'  he  ses  to  me,  '  Sam,  you  jes'  go 
'long  with  me.'  So  I  was  sort  o'  sorry  for  him,  an'  I  kind  o'  thought 
I'd  go  'long.  Wal,  come  'long  to  Josh  Bissel's  tahvern,  there  at  the 
Half-way  House,  you  know,  'twas  so  swinging  cold,  we  stopped  to 
take  a  little  suthin'  warmin',  an'  we  sort  o'  sot  an'  sot  over  the  fire,  till, 
first  we  knew,  we  kind  o'  got  asleep ;  an'  when  we  woke  up,  we  found 
we'd  left  the  old  general  hitched  up  t'  th'  post  pretty  much  all  night. 
Wal,  didn't  hurt  him  none,  poor  man ;  'twas  allers  a  favorite  spot  o' 
his'n.  But,  takin'  one  thing  with  another,  I  didn't  get  home  till  about 
noon  next  day,  an'  I  tell  you,  Hepsy,  she  was  right  down  on  me.  She 
said  the  baby  was  sick,  an'  there  hadn't  been  no  wood  split,  nor  the 
barn  fastened  up,  nor  nothin' !  Lordy  massy,  I  didn't  mean  no  harm. 
I  thought  there  was  wood  enough,  an'  I  thought  likely  Hepsy'd  git 
out  an'  fasten  up  the  barn.  But  Hepsy,  she  was  in  one  o'  her  con- 
trary streaks,  an'  she  wouldn't  do  a  thing.  An'  when  I  went  out  to 
look,  why,  sure  'nuff,  there  was  our  old  tom-turkey  froze  as  stiff  as 
a  stake,  —  his  claws  jist  a-stickin'  right  straight  up  like  this."  Here 
Sam  struck  an  expressive  attitude,  and  looked  so  much  like  a  frozen 
turkey,  as  to  give  a  pathetic  reality  to  the  picture. 

"  Well,  now,  Sam,  why  need  you  be  off  on  things  that's  none  of 
your  business?"  said  my  grandmother.  "I've  talked  to  you  plainly 
about  that  a  great  many  times,  Sam,"  she  continued,  in  tones  of  severe 
admonition.     "  Hepsy  is  a  hard-working  woman,  but  she  can't  be  ex- 

59 


60  HOW  TO  SELECT  A    TURKEY. 

pected  to  see  to  every  thing  ;  an'  you  oughter  'ave  been  at  home  that 
night  to  fasten  up  your  own  barn,  and  look  after  your  own  cree- 
turs." 

Sam  took  the  rebuke  all  the  more  meekly,  as  he  perceived  the  stiff 
black  legs  of  a  turkey  poking  out  from  under  my  grandmother's  apron, 
while  she  was  delivering  it.  To  be  exhorted  and  told  of  his  short- 
comings, and  then  furnished  with  a  turkey  at  Thanksgiving,  was  a 
yearly  part  of  his  family  programme.  In  time  he  departed,  not  only 
with  the  turkey,  but  with  us  boys  in  procession  after  him,  bearing  a 
mince  and  a  pumpkin  pie  for  Ilepsy's  children. 

"  Poor  things  !  "  my  grandmother  remarked  ;  "  they  ought  to  have 
something  good  to  eat  Thanksgiving  Day;  'tain't  their  fault  that 
they've  got  a  shiftless  father."  —  Oldtown  Folks  :  Mrs.  H.  B. 
Stowe.     Houghton,  Mifflin,  &*  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per) 


How  to  Select  a  Turkey. 

The  practice  of  sending  partially  dressed  fowls  to 
our  markets  is  one  which  should  be  condemned  by 
every  housekeeper  who  desires  pure,  untainted  meat. 
Therefore,  in  the  selection  of  a  turkey,  first  see  that 
it  is  entirely  cleansed  inside ;  and  especially  see 
that  the  crop  is  removed,  as  this,  with  its  undigested 
food,  will  very  soon  poison  the  whole  of  the  most 
delicious  portion  of  the  fowl.  The  skin  should  be  of 
fine  texture,  and  should  disclose  no  purple  flesh 
underneath,  as  that  indicates  age.  The  legs  should 
be  smooth  and  dark,  and  the  spurs  soft  and  loose. 
There  should  be  no  heavy  layers  of  pale,  unhealthy 
fat  along  the  back  :  this  indicates  a  rapidly  fattened, 
if  not  a  stall-fed  turkey.  The  flesh  must  be  white 
and  the  breast  plump,  and  the  fat  yellow ;  but,  above 
all,  it  should  smell  perfectly  sweet  inside.  Having 
secured  a  good  turkey,  the  next  thing  to  do  is  to 
thoroughly  cleanse  it,  extract  the  pin-feathers,  and 
hang  it  up  to  dry. 


HOW  TO  ROAST  A    TURKEY.  6 1 

How  to  Roast  a  Turkey. 

While  it  is  drying,  prepare  a  dressing  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner :  If  you  have  no  good  home-made 
loaf,  take  one-half  or  three-fourths  of  a  stale  loaf  of 
baker's  bread,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  over  which 
pour  very  scantily  warm  (not  boiling)  water ;  enough 
to  make  the  bread  Hght,  soft,  and  still  have  it  flaky, 
is  the  desired  quantity ;  boiling  water  poured  over 
bread  until  it  is  mushy  and  glutinous  will  never 
make  good  stuffing ;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
good  pinch  of  finely  powdered  sage  without  the 
stems,  one  small  onion  fried  a  golden  brown  in  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt.  Now  put  into  a  skillet  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and,  when  turning  a  light  brown, 
add  the  dressing ;  leave  it  to  fry  a  golden  brown, 
then  turn  and  stir  until  thoroughly  heated.  Take  it 
off,  and  fill  the  turkey,  after  salting  the  inside ;  do 
not  press  the  dressing  in  compactly,  but  leave  room 
for  it  to  swell.  It  should  have  been  said  at  the 
proper  place,  to  push  back  the  skin  from  the  neck, 
and  cut  the  latter  off  close  to  the  body ;  stuff  the 
breast  from  this  opening,  then  turn  the  skin  over  on 
the  back,  and  sew  it ;  the  other  vent  needs  no  sew- 
ing, when  the  fowl  is  properly  stuffed  ;  now  press 
the  legs  up  as  far  as  possible  toward  the  breast,  and 
secure  firmly  to  the  end  of  the  turkey.  With  a  rub- 
bing over  of  salt,  it  is  now  ready  for  the  oven,  and 
if  roasted  in  an  enclosed  pan,  there  will  be  no  need 
of  basting  ;  otherwise,  with  about  a  half -pint  of  water 
to  start  it,  it  will  need  to  be  basted  frequently.  The 
heat  of  the  oven  should  be  moderate  at  first,  but 
increased  afterward  ;  if  it  browns  too  fast,  wet  a  clean 


62  TURKEY  DRESSED    WITH  OYSTERS. 

cloth  in  water,  and  lay  over  the  turkey ;  this  can  be 
remoistened  occasionally.  Allow  about  twenty  min- 
utes to  each  pound  of  meat.  When  the  turkey  is 
taken  out,  there  should  be  nothing  but  fat  in  the 
pari  with  which  to  make  gravy ;  if  there  is  more 
than  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls,  pour  it  out,  as  that 
is  sufficient ;  into  what  is  left  in  the  pan,  put  flour 
enough  to  absorb  it,  and  let  it  cook,  with  constant 
stirring,  until  the  flour  is  done ;  then  add  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  cold  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
thickens.  To  insure  good  gravy,  the  fat  must  on  no 
account  be  allowed  to  burn  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
while  the  turkey  is  roasting ;  arrange  the  damper  to 
be  certain  to  avoid  this.  The  giblets  may  be  put  on 
in  a  quart  of  water,  which  may  be  allowed  to  boil 
down  to  a  pint ;  then  chop  them,  and  add  either  to 
the  dressing  or  gravy.  —  Commercial  Gazette,  Cincin- 
nati, O.     (By  per.) 

Turkey  dressed  with   Oysters. 

For  a  ten-pound  turkey,  take  two  pints  of  bread- 
crumbs, half  a  teacupful  of  butter  cut  in  bits  (not 
melted),  one  teaspoonful  of  sweet  basil,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Rub  the  turkey  well, 
inside  and  out,  with  salt  and  pepper ;  then  fill  with 
first  a  spoonful  of  crumbs,  then  a  few  well-drained 
oysters,  using  half  a  can  for  the  turkey.  Strain  the 
oyster-liquor,  and  use  to  baste  the  turkey.  Cook 
the  giblets  in  the  pan,  and  chop  fine  in  the  gravy. 
A  fowl  of  this  size  will  require  three  hours  cooking 
in  a  moderate  oven.  —  Presbyterian  Cook-Book, 
Dayton,  O.     Mrs.   W.  A.  B.     {By per) 


UTILIZING    THE   "LEFT-OVERS."  6$ 

Utilizing  the  "Left-Overs." 
The  remnants  of  the  turkey,  after  the  best  bits 
have  been  removed  from  the  bones  for  other  use, 
make  a  most  delicious  soup.  Place  all  the  bones  and 
bits  of  dressing  in  an  earthen  vessel,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  simmer  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  bones, 
and  strain  the  stock  through  a  hair  sieve  or  cloth,  to 
clear  away  all  bits  of  meat,  skin,  gristle,  or  bread- 
crumbs. Half  an  hour  before  straining  the  stock, 
prepare  two  medium-sized  bunches  of  celery  by  wash- 
ing, and  cutting  into  pieces  an  inch  long.  Use  both 
the  leaves  and  green  parts  of  the  stems,  as  well  as  the 
blanched.  Put  it  on  the  stove  in  cold  water,  and 
when  the  stock  is  ready,  add  both  water  and  celery 
to  it.  Season  well  with  salt  and  whole  peppers. 
Variety  may  be  given  by  using  several  kinds  of  vege- 
tables for  flavoring,  —  cabbage,  turnip,  onion,  and 
carrot,  a  very  small  quantity  of  each.  Instead  of 
vegetables,  dumplings  made  thus  may  be  added : 
Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  same  of  baking-powder,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough  ;  pinch  off  bits  the  size  of_  a  large 
hickory-nut,  roll  between  the  fingers  round,  and  drop 
them  into  the  boiling  stock  half  an  hour  before  the 
soup  is  to  be  served.  One  of  the  most  simple  ways 
of  warming  up  cold  turkey  is  to  separate  all  bits  of 
skin  and  gristle, from  the  pieces  which  have  been  cut 
from  the  bones  when  preparing  them  for  soup,  and 
placing  the  meat,  not  chopped,  but  shred  in  long 
pieces,  in  a  frying-pan  with  sufficient  melted  butter 
to  fry  it.  It  should  be  stirred  lightly  several  times, 
and  not  fried  brown,  or  it  will  be  too  hard.     If  there 


64  CRANBERRIES. 

is  any  cold  stuffing,  cut  it  in  pieces,  fry  brown  after 
the  turkey  has  been  taken  up,  and  place  it  around  the 
edge  of  the  plate.  — Harper 's  Bazar.  {By  per.  Harper 
&  Brothers.) 

Cranberries. 

Put  three  pints  of  washed  cranberries  in  a  granite 
stewpan.  On  top  of  them  put  three  cups  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  three  gills  of  zvater.  After  they  begin 
to  boil,  cook  them  ten  minutes,  closely  covered,  and 
do  not  stir  them.  Remove  the  scum.  They  will 
jelly  when  cool,  and  the  skins  will  be  soft  and  ten- 
der.—  The  Boston  Cook-Book:  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln. 
Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

A   Chestnut   Puree. 

Slit  the  husks  of  fifty  chestnuts^  and  put  them  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  bit  of  butter ;  put  the  lid  on,  and 
let  them  heat,  tossing  the  pan  now  and  then.  In 
about  twenty  minutes  you  can  easily  remove  all  the 
hulls.  Put  the  nuts  in  a  saucepan  with  a  ladleful  of 
stock,  beef-tea,  or  hot  water ;  let  them  simmer  gently 
until  soft ;  pound  them  ;  put  them  through  a  sieve  or 
colander ;  add  a  little  nutmeg,  salt,  and  sugar ;  serve 
up  very  hot  with  a  dash  of  cream  or  butter. 

This  is  for  a  garnish  to  chops  or  cutlets.  Serve  in 
a  gravy-boat,  and  then  it  will  keep  hot.  To  put 
around  roast  turkey,  they  are  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  but  kept  whole,  and  the  consomme  or  beef-tea 
is  cooked  down  to  a  glaze  and  with  a  little  butter,  so 
that  they  are  shiny.  Toss  them  about  in  it  to  cover 
them  all  over. — Public  Ledger,  Philadelphia.  (By 
per.  Editor  of  The  Household?) 


TO  ROAST  A    GOOSE.  65 

Such  a  bustle  ensued,  that  you  might  have  thought  a  goose  the 
rarest  of  all  birds,  a  feathered  phenomenon  to  which  a  black,  swan 
was  a  matter  of  course  ;  and  in  truth  it  was  something  very  like  it,  in 
that  house.  Mrs.  Cratchit  made  the  gravy  (ready  beforehand  in  a 
little  saucepan)  hissing  hot;  Master  Peter  mashed  the  potatoes  with 
incredible  vigor  ;  Miss  Belinda  sweetened  up  the  apple-sauce  ;  Martha 
dusted  the  hot  plates ;  Bob  took  Tiny  Tim  beside  him  in  a  tiny  cor- 
ner at  the  table ;  the  two  young  Cratchits  set  chairs  for  everybody, 
not  forgetting  themselves,  and,  mounting  guard  upon  their  posts, 
crammed  spoons  into  their  mouths,  lest  they  should  shriek  for  goose 
before  their  turn  came  to  be  helped.  At  last  the  dishes  were  set  on, 
and  grace  was  said.  It  was  succeeded  by  a  breathless  pause,  as  Mrs. 
Cratchit,  looking  slowly  all  along  the  carving-knife,  prepared  to  plunge 
it  in  the  breast;  but  when  she  did,  and  when  the  long-expected  gush 
of  stuffing  issued  forth,  one  murmur  of  delight  arose  all  round  the 
board,  and  even  Tiny  Tim,  excited  by  the  two  young  Cratchits,  beat 
on  the  table  with  the  handle  of  his  knife,  and  feebly  cried,  Hurrah ! 

There  never  was  such  a  goose.  Bob  said  he  didn't  believe  there 
ever  was  such  a  goose  cooked.  Its  tenderness  and  flavor,  size  and 
cheapness,  were  the  themes  of  universal  admiration.  Eked  out  by 
apple-sauce  and  mashed  potatoes,  it  was  a  sufficient  dinner  for  the 
whole  family ;  indeed,  as  Mrs.  Cratchit  said  with  great  delight  (sur- 
veying one  small  atom  of  a  bone  upon  the  dish),  they  hadn't  ate  it  all 
at  last !  Yet  every  one  had  had  enough,  and  the  youngest  Cratchits 
in  particular  were  steeped  in  sage  and  onion  to  the  eyebrows! — A 
Christmas  Carol:  Charles  Dickens. 

To   Roast  a  Goose. 

"  Take  a  young  goose,  pick,  singe,  and  clean  well. 
Make  the  stuffing  with  two  ounces  of  onions  (about 
four  common-sized)  and  one  ounce  of  green  sage 
chopped  very  fine  ;  then  add  a  large  coffee-cup  of 
stale  bread-crumbs  and  the  same  of  mashed  pota- 
toes, a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  as  big 
as  a  walnut,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two  ;  mix  these 
well  together,  and  then  stuff  the  goose.  Do  not  fill 
it  entirely  :  the  stuffing  requires  room  to  swell.  It 
will  take  two  hours  or  more  to  roast  it  thoroughly. 
The  fire  must  be  brisk.  Baste  it  with  salt  and  water 
at  first,  then  with  its  own  dripping. 

"  A  green  goose  —  that  is,  one  under  four 
months    old  —  is    seasoned    with    pepper    and    salt 


66  APPLE-SAUCE  FOR   GOOSE. 

instead   of   sage   and   onions.     It  will   roast   in   an 
hour." 

Apple-Sauce   for  Goose. 

Peel,  core,  and  cut  up  a  gallon  of  pippins  or  other 
fresh  apples  ;  stew  them,  with  a  little  water  added, 
grate  in  a  bit  of  the  peel  of  a  lemon  and  all  its  juice  ; 
sweeten  to  your  taste  when  the  apples  are  done  very- 
tender,  mash  them  up  perfectly  smooth,  and  serve.  — 
Virginia  Cookery-Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith. 
Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Duckling  Pot   Roast. 

This  is  a  very  good  way  to  cook  this  very  accept- 
able bird.  Put  into  a  shallow  crock  a  thin  strip  of 
bacon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mixed  whole  spice. 
Clean  and  truss  two  ducklings,  put  them  in  the  crock, 
add  hot  water  or  soup-stock  enough  to  come  up  half 
way  on  the  birds.  Then  add  a  sprig  of  celery  and 
two  of  parsfey ;  place  a  narrow  strip  of  bacon  over 
each  bird  ;  cover  close,  and  set  the  crock  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  where  the  birds  will  cook  slowly  two 
hours.  Remove  the  ducklings,  strain  the  sauce,  and 
reduce  it  one-third  by  boiling ;  add  a  gill  of  dark 
wine ;  thicken  with  a  dash  of  brown  flour ;  simmer 
fifteen  minutes  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice, 
and  serve  with  the  duck.  A  small  quantity  of  the 
sauce  may  be  boiled  down  until  thick  as  cream. 
This  is  called  glaze :  it  is  brushed  over  the  bird 
before  serving.  —  The  Book  of  Entrees  :  Thomas 
J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 


CHICKEN  FRICASSEE.  6? 

The  most  elegant  dish  of  the  Romans  was  a  stuffed  peacock.  A 
young  peacock  is  eatable  when  properly  roasted,  but  an  old  one  is 
really  very  poor  eating ;  but  the  Romans  used  to  prepare  them  in  the 
following  way  :  They  selected  those  with  the  most  beautiful  plumage, 
and  stifled  them  to  death,  believing  that  that  mode  of  killing  gave 
more  brilliancy  to  the  plumage.  As  soon  as  dead,  they  carefully  split 
the  bird  open  by  an  incision  all  along  the  back,  from  the  bill  to  the 
rump.  They  then  took  out  all  the  bones,  meat,  etc.,  leaving  only  the 
bones  of  the  legs  to  the  first  joint,  those  of  the  wings  to  the  second 
joint,  and  the  head  whole,  except  the  brain,  eyes,  and  tongue.  The 
inside  of  the  skin  was  now  immediately  lined  with  a  coating  of  glue, 
and  filled  with  bran  to  keep  it  in  shape.  The  feathers  that  were 
spoiled  were  varnished,  and  false  but  brilliant  eyes  were  placed  in- 
stead of  the  natural  ones.  When  dry  the  skin  was  filled  with  roasted 
birds  or  with  the  flesh  of  birds  chopped  and  cooked,  and  carefully 
sewed  up.  The  bird  was  served  on  a  large  silver  dish  made  for  that 
purpose.  The  dish  was  of  an  oblong  shape,  and  in  the  middle  and 
soldered  to  it  was  something  resembling  the  trunk  of  a  tree  with  a 
kind  of  limb  on  which  the  bird  was  fastened.  It  was  meant  to  look 
just  as  if  it  were  alive,  and  resting  itself  on  a  perch,  with  an  ear  of 
millet  in  its  bill.  It  was  always  served  at  the  beginning  of  the  dinner, 
and  was  one  of  the  last  dishes  eaten.  —  Pierre  Blot. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

"Take  two  chickens,  cut  up,  and  lay  them  in  skil- 
let, with  two  slices  of  lean  ham,  two  small  eschalots, 
and  a  few  blades  of  mace.  Then  season  fowls  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Add  a  little  water.  When  about 
half  done,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour.  Keep  the 
fricassee  constantly  stirring  till  done." 

A  Souffle  of  Chicken. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken,  remove  all  the 
skin  and  sinews,  and  mince  it  up  as  fine  as  possible. 
Then  put  the  meat  into  a  stew-pan,  together  with 
some  white  sauce,  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine,  and 
pepper  and  salt.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  stir 
it  until  it  boils ;  then  remove  it  to  one  side  to  cool 
a  little.     Have  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a 


68  CHICKEN  CURRY. 

firm  froth,  and  stir  these  into  the  mixture.  Butter 
well  a  mould,  strew  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  it 
some  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  place  a  piece  of  white 
paper  around  the  top  to  allow  the  souffle'  to  rise. 
Then  put  it  in  a  very  quick  oven  to  bake,  and  when 
done,  serve  with  white  sauce  poured  round  it.  —  The 
Caterer.     (By  per.) 

Chicken  Curry. 

Fine-grained  poultry  does  not  make  good  curry,  as 
the  curry-powder  is  unable  to  permeate  the  centre 
of  the  flesh.  A  coarse-grained  bird  will  be  found  the 
best  for  this  purpose.  Boil  the  chicken  in  the  usual 
manner,  saving  the  broth.  When  cold,  cut  it  neatly, 
and  rub  the  curry-powder  into,  the  meat.  Cut  up  one 
large  sour  apple  and  half  an  onion  ;  fry  these  in  but- 
ter ;  add  the  meat,  toss  it  about  a  moment,  and  add 
half  a  pint  of  the  chicken-broth  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
chutney,  simmer  until  thoroughly  amalgamated,  and 
serve  with  rice  or  shredded  maize.  A  little  sugar  is 
an  improvement,  and  may  thicken  the  sauce,  but  I 
like  it  without  flour.  —  The  Book  of  Entrees  : 
Thomas  J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Chicken  Salad.     No.  i. 

"  Mince  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken  fine,  or  pull  it 
in  bits ;  chop  the  white  parts  of  celery.  Prepare  a 
salad-dressing  thus  :  Rub  the  yolks  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  dessertspoon- 
ful of  salad-oil,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  made  mustard, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  teacupful  of  strong 
vinegar.     Mix  the  chicken  and  celery  together,  and 


CHICKEN  SALAD.  69 

pour  the  dressing  over  when  ready  to  serve.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  with  the  delicate  leaves  of  the  celery. 
White-heart  lettuce  may  be  substituted  for  the 
celery." 

Chicken  Salad.     No.  2. 

"For  one  good-sized  chicken  take  one  bunch  of 
celery  chopped  fine,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  For 
dressing  for  the  above  quantity,  take  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  boiled  hard,  make  them  fine,  and  add  mus- 
tard, vinegar,  oil,  and  a  little  cayenne-pepper  and 
salt  to  suit  taste.  The  liquor  the  chicken  is  boiled 
in  is  very  nice  to  use  in  mixing  it.  Put  in  just 
enough  to  moisten  it  nicely.  When  it  becomes  cold 
it  is  like  a  jelly,  but  it  is  a  great  improvement  to  the 
salad." 

Jellied  Chicken. 

Boil  a  fowl  until  it  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones ; 
let  the  water  be  reduced  to  about  one  pint  in  boiling ; 
pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  good-sized  pieces, 
taking  out  all  gristle,  fat,  and  bones ;  place  in  a  wet 
mould ;  skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor,  add  a  little 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste,  and  one  half- 
ounce  of  gelatine.  When  this  dissolves,  pour  it  hot 
over  the  chicken.  The  liquor  must  be  seasoned 
pretty  high,  for  the  chicken  absorbs.  —  The  Every- 
day Cook-Book  :  Miss  E.  Neill.  {By  per.  Belford, 
Clarke ;  &  Co.) 

Chicken  Pie. 

Boil  the  fowls  until  tender ;  prepare  a  crust  of 
buttermilk  and  cream,  in  the  same  manner  as  for  soft 
biscuit ;  line  your  baking-dish  with  a  portion  of  it ; 


JO        CHICKEN  PIE    WITH  SWEET  POTATOES. 

then  break  the  fowls  in  pieces,  and  place  the  por- 
tions around  in  the  pie.  Put  in  some  lumps  of  but- 
ter ;  then  put  in  the  liquid  in  which  the  fowls  were 
boiled,  until  the  pan  is  two-thirds  full.  It  should  be 
seasoned  to  the  taste  before  putting  in,  but  not  have 
any  thickening  in,  or  it  will  dry  away  too  much. 
Roll  out,  and  wet  the  edge  where  the  crust  comes 
together.  Make  a  hole  in  the  top  to  let  out  the 
steam.  Bake  it  moderately.  At  least  two  fowls  will 
be  necessary  for  a  large  pie.  — From  Peterson 's  Maga- 
zine.    {By  per.) 

Chicken  Pie  with  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cut  up  a  chicken,  and  put  on  to  stew ;  and  after  it 
has  boiled  a  while  (skimming  it  when  necessary),  add 
six  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in 
halves.  Stew  until  tender,  and  then  place  the  pieces 
of  chicken  and  potatoes  alternately  in  a  large  pie- 
dish  lined  with  crust  made  as  for  biscuit.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  gravy  furnished  by 
stewing  the  chicken  and  potatoes.  Cover  with 
crust,  and  bake. — Lizzie  Strohm. 

Giblet  Pie. 

Wash  and  clean  the  giblets,  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour ;  cover  them  with  water,  stew  them  till 
they  are  very  tender.  Line  the  sides  of  your  pie- 
dish  with  paste,  put  in  the  giblets,  and  if  the  gravy 
is  not  quite  thick  enough,  add  a  little  more  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  let  it  boil  once.  Pour  in  the  gravy, 
put  on  the  top  crust,  leaving  an  opening  in  the  cen- 


PIGEON  PIE.  J  l 

tre  of  it  in  the  form  of  a  square ;  ornament  this  with 
leaves  of  the  paste.  Set  the  pie  in  the  oven,  and 
when  the  crust  is  done  take  it  out.  —  Peterson's 
Magazine.     (By  per) 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Having  picked  and  cleaned  five  pigeons,  fill  them 
with  a  stuffing  of  grated  cold  ham,  grated  cracker, 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  If  asparagus  is  in  season, 
the  green  tops  may  be  substituted  for  the  cracker. 
Pour  milk  and  water  into  the  dish  until  the  pigeons 
are  nearly  covered.  Put  a  lid  of  paste  on  the  top, 
and  bake  an  hour.  If  you  wish  the  pigeons  very 
tender,  parboil  them  twenty  minutes,  and  use  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  to  make  the  pie.  — 
Arthur's  Home  Magazine.     (By  per.  Puds.) 

The  pigeons  were  snugly  put  to  bed  in  a  comfortable  pie,  and 
tucked  in  with  a  coverlet  of  crust.  —  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow: 
Washington  Irving.     {By per.  G.  P.  Pictnani's  Sons.) 

Roast  Guinea  Fowls. 

Pick,  clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  you  would  chickens, 
adding  to  the  stuffing  a  little  minced  ham.  Roast  as 
you  would  chickens,  basting  liberally  with  butter. 
Season  the  gravy  with  a  chopped  shallot,  and  with 
summer-savory  ;  add  the  giblets,  and  thicken  with 
browned  flour.  — The  Unrivalled  Cook-Book  :  Mrs. 
Washington.     (By  per.  Harper  &  Brothers.) 

Croquettes  de  Volaille.     (Poultry  Croquettes.) 

Melt  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  put  into  it 
chopped   parsley  and   mushrooms,  two  spoonfuls  of 


72  CROQUETTES  DE    VOLAILLE. 

flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Fry  it,  and  pour  in 
stock  and  a  little  cream.  This  sauce  ought  to  have 
the  consistence  of  thick  milk.  Cut  up  any  poultry 
which  has  been  cooked  the  day  before,  into  dice. 
Put  them  into  the  sauce,  and  let  it  get  cold.  Form 
it  into  balls,  and  cover  them  with  bread-crumbs. 
Wash  these  in  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  up,  and 
roll  them  in  bread-crumbs  a  second  time.  Fry  them 
to  a  good  color,  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  fried 
parsley. — Petersons  Magazine.     {By per :) 


CHAPTER    VII. 


GAME. 


GAME. 

"  I  believe  I  agree  with  the  English  people  generally,"  said  Steven, 
not  without  a  smile.  In  the  levity  of  youth,  ignorance,  and  unbounded 
digestion,  cooking  to  him  was  the  least  important  of  subjects.  "  For 
myself,  a  venison  steak  broiled  over  a  wood  fire,  a  buck's  head  baked 
in  an  earth  oven,  a  partridge  or  quail  quickly  roasted,  and  a  snatch  of 
cassava  bread,  have  been  my  diet  for  years,  with  a  mug  of  black  cof- 
fee—  as  long  as  our  coffee  held  out  —  to  wash  it  down." 

A  look  almost  of  excitement  came  across  Lord  Petres'  impassive 
face.  "  Lawrence,"  said  he  earnestly,  "  I'm  delighted  to  have  met 
you.  Sit  down,  pray.  This  conversation  is  most  interesting  to  me. 
At  the  present  moment  I  am  endeavoring  to  work  out  an  idea,  —  not 
original,  nothing's  original,  —  but  an  idea  too  much  neglected  by  writers 
on  art  generally ;  which  is,  that  the  perfection  of  cookery  is,  in  many 
cases,  to  be  sought,  not  by  striving  after  new  combinations,  but  by 
reverting  to  the  instinctive,  untaught  science  of  the  simple  hunter  in 
the  woods.  Your  remark  confirms  all  that  I  have  been  writing  on  the 
subject.  You  speak  of  a  venison  steak  smoking  hot  from  the  embers, 
of  small  game  quickly  roasted,  of  a  buck's  head  cooked  by  slow  and 
gradual  heat.  —  Good  God,  sir!  do  you  not  know  that  all  this  is  the 
ne plus  ultra  of  intuitive  science,  bearing  out  with  accuracy  the  axiom 
of  the  immortal  Savarin,  that  On  deviait  cuisinier,  mais  on  nait  r6tis- 
seur  ?  " 

"  I  don't  know  French,"  said  Steven,  "  except  a  few  words  I  picked 
up  in  the  Canadian  backwoods  once ;  but  I  know  our  food  used  to 
taste  deuced  good  to  us  in  the  forests  or  out  prairie  hunting.  Still  I 
can't' say  I  ever  enjoyed  any  thing  more  than  some  cold  beef  and  pic- 
kles that  I  ate  when  I  landed  in  Southampton  yesterday.  After  living 
on  wild  flesh,  as  I  have  done,  for  years,  I  believe  plain  English  beef 
and  mutton  will  be  a  treat  to  me,  ill-cooked  or  well-cooked."  —  Steven 
Lawrence,  Yeoman  :  Mrs.  Edwards. 


To  Cook  a  Deer's  Head  in  Camp. 

Dig  a  hole  two  feet  square  and  one  foot  deep  ; 
build  a  fire  in  it,  and  allow  it  to  burn  to  embers  ;  re- 
move about  half  of  the  remaining  coals,  throw  in  the 
hole  a  thin  layer  of  green  leaves,  on  top  of  which 
put  the  head  in  the  same  condition  as  when  taken 

75 


"j6  VENISON  STEAK'S,   BROILED. 

from  the  animal ;  cover  it  thoroughly  with  a  layer  of 
green  leaves,  and  the  embers  and  ashes  previously 
taken  from  the  hole ;  allow  the  head  to  roast  an 
hour  and  a  half,  then  remove  it,  and  pull  the  skin 
from  it ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  —  The  Un- 
rivalled Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  Washington.  {By  per. 
Harper  &  BrotJiers) 

Venison  Steaks,  Broiled. 

"Wash  and  wipe  them  dry.  Put  them  on  the 
gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire,  and  broil  them ;  then 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  baste  them  with 
butter.     Serve  with  currant-jelly." 

Venison  Steaks,  Fried. 

"  Wash  two  steaks ;  season  with  salt,  black  and 
red  pepper  mixed,  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides.  When  done,  place  them  on  a  dish,  and 
dredge  into  the  pan  one  dessertspoonful  of  browned 
flour,  to  which  add  gradually  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water ;  stir  well,  and  season  to  taste.  Garnish  the 
top  of  each  with  currant-jelly,  and  send  to  table  on 
a  well-heated  dish." 

Opossums. 

Opossums  are  best  in  the  autumn  when  the  per- 
simmons are  ripe,  as  they  eat  that  fruit,  and  become 
very  fat.  They  are  never  caught  in  the  daytime. 
A  fine  moonlight  night  is  the  best  time  to  catch 
opossums.  When  caught,  put  them  in  a  cage,  and 
feed  them  for  several  days  ;  skin  and  draw  the  opos- 
sum, cut  off  the  legs  to  the  first  joint,  and  part  of 


RABBIT  CURRY.  J? 

the  tail ;  stuff  the  head  and  body  like  a  turkey,  and 
roast  it  before,  a  brisk  fire.  Opossums  are  never 
eaten  hot.  — The  Unrivalled  Cook-Book.  {By  per 
Harper  &  Brothers.) 

De  frosts  dun  come,  an'  de  'possum  is  ripe, 

Oh,  Jurangy,  ho ! 
Better'n  any  beefsteak,  better'n  any  tripe, 

Oh,  Jurangy,  ho ! 

Arkansaw  Traveller. 

Rabbit  Curry. 

Select  two  fine  rabbits,  cut  them  into  neat  pieces ; 
put  in  an  earthen  crock  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  add  a 
few  pieces  of  rabbit,  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  curry- 
powder,  salt,  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  and  a  dozen 
raisins  ;  put  in  another  layer  of  rabbit,  and  season  it 
as  the  first  layer ;  repeat  until  the  rabbit  is  all  used, 
and  you  have  also  used  the  juice  and  meat  of  one 
fresh  or  half  a  pound  of  dry  cocoanut.  Moisten  the 
whole  with  a  mild  Catawba  or  Rhine  wine ;  let  this 
stand  twenty-four  hours  ;  then  place  the  crock  in  a 
pot  of  water,  and  let  it  simmer  two  hours,  keeping  it 
well  covered.  When  done  serve  it  on  a  flat  dish, 
and  serve  rice  separately.  — The  Book  of  Entrees  : 
Thomas  J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Fricassee  of  Squirrels. 

Put  two  young  squirrels  into  a  pot  with  two  ounces 
of  butter,  one  or  two  ounces  of  ham,  some  salt  and 
pepper,  and  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Let 
them  stew  slowly  until  tender ;  take  them  up,  and 
pour  half  a  teacup  of  cream  and  a  beaten  yolk  of 
egg  into  the  gravy,  and  when  it  has  boiled  five  min- 


78  BROILED  PARTRIDGES. 

utes,  pour  over  the  squirrels  in  the  dish.  — Arthur's 
Home  Magazine.     (By  per.) 

Broiled  Partridges. 

"Time,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Partridges, 
gravy,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  cayenne. 

"  Thoroughly  pick  and  draw  the  partridges,  divide 
each  through  the  back  and  breast,  and  wipe  the 
insides.  Season  them  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  very  little  cayenne,  and  place  them  over  a  clear 
bright  fire  to  broil.  When  done,  rub  a  piece  of  fresh 
butter  over  them,  and  serve  them  up  hot  with  brown 
gravy." 

Fillet  of  Grouse'. 

Remove  the  breast,  and  separate  into  four  or  six 
pieces.  Disjoint  and  cook  the  remainder  in  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover,  till  tender ;  then  remove  all 
the  meat,  and  chop  it  fine.  Thicken  the  broth  (which 
should  be  reduced  to  half  a  cup),  season,  and  moisten 
the  meat.  Spread  the  minced  meat  on  squares  of 
toast;  put  a  layer  of  currant-jelly  on  each.  Rub 
the  fillets  with  butter,  and  broil  them  carefully ;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  lay  them  on 
the  jelly. — The  Peerless  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A. 
L  incoln.     (By  per. ) 

Woodcock  Pie. 

Have  a  good  puff-paste  made,  and  with  this  line 
the  sides  of  your  baking-dish.  Then  have  cut  a' thin 
slice  of  veal ;  lay  this  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and 
season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  mace,  laying 
upon  the  top  of  it  a  thin  slice  of  ham.     (Ths  ham,  as 


TO   ROAST   WILD   DUCKS.  79 

well  as  the  veal,  should  have  no  fat  about  it.)  Now 
take  a  couple  of  brace  of  woodcock  that  have  been 
carefully  plucked,  and,  without  drawing,  season  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Have  some  bacon  cut 
into  thin  slices,  wrap  these  round  the  birds,  and  lay 
them  on  the  ham  as  closely  together  as  possible,  fill- 
ing up  the  spaces  around  them  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Have  ready  made  some  very 
strong  beef-gravy ;  pour  a  pint  of  it  over  the  birds, 
lay  over  the  whole  a  covering  of  the  puff -paste,  brush 
it  over  with  egg,  and  bake  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  well-heated  oven.  This  pie  is  intended  to 
be  eaten  cold.  —  The  Caterer.     {By  per?) 

To  roast  Wild  Ducks. 

Clean  and  prepare  them  as  poultry.  Crumb  the 
inside  of  a  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  to  which  add 
three  ounces  of  butter,  one  large  onion  chopped  fine, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  well  together. 
Season  the  ducks,  both  inside  and  out,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  sage  rubbed  fine ;  then  fill  them  with 
the  dressing,  and  skewer  tightly.  Place  them  in  the 
pan,  back  upward ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over,  and  a 
tablespoonful  in  the  pan,  with  water  sufficient  to  make 
gravy.  When  a  nice  brown,  turn  them  over ;  baste 
frequently.  Serve  with  currant -jelly. — Arthur's 
Home  Magazine.     {By  per.) 


CHAPTER    VIII. 


OMELETS,  EGGS,  AND   CHEESE. 


OMELETS,   EGGS,   AND   CHEESE. 

Francis.     What  can  you  give  us  for  luncheon  ? 

Manette.  Whatever  you  are  pleased  to  choose ;  but,  unluckily, 
we  have  neither  beef,  veal,  nor  mutton  in  the  house. 

Sergeant  Austerlitz.  Well,  well,  we  are  not  particular;  you 
have  only  to  twist  the  neck  of  one  of  your  fine  fat  barn-door  fowls, 
and  clap  it  on  the  gridiron. 

Manette.  Why,  as  to  our  fowls,  gentlemen,  I  can't  say  much  for 
our  fowls ;  our  fowls  are  apt  to  be  tough  ;  but  what  say  you  to  some 
fine,  fresh,  new-laid  eggs  ?  If  eggs  would  serve  your  turn,  I  could 
make  you  out  the  prettiest  bill  of  fare ! 

Sergeant  Austerlitz.  Your  larder  does  not  seem  likely  to 
burst  from  an  overcharge,  bright  tulip  of  the  Seine !  .  .  .  Toss  us  up 
an  omelet,  and  we  will  make  the  best  of  your  fare.  —  The  Maid  of 
Croissey:  Mrs.  Gore. 


Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. 

"  Break  eight  eggs  in  a  stew-pan,  to  which  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  very  finely  chopped  eschalots,  one  of 
chopped  parsley,  a  half-one  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper, 
and  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  cream ;  beat  them 
well  together ;  then  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  an 
omelet-pan,  stand  it  over  a  sharp  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  the  butter  is  sufficiently  hot  pour  in  the  eggs  ;  stir 
them  round  quickly  until  delicately  set ;  shake  the 
pan  round,  then  leave  it  a  moment  to  color  the  ome- 
let ;  hold  the  pan  in  a  slanting  position,  turn  it  on 
to  your  dish,  and  serve  it  immediately.  It  must  not 
be  too  much  done." 

Omelette  au  Sucre. 

Break  four  eggs  in  a  bowl ;  beat  them  with  a  fork 
for  half  a  minute ;   add  a  tablespoonf  ul   of   sugar ; 

83 


84  OMELET   WITH  JELLY. 

beat  another  half-minute.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter in  a  frying-pan  over  a  quick  fire,  and  when 
melted,  turn  the  eggs  in ;  stir  with  a  fork,  and  see 
that  it  does  not  burn.  When  becoming  hard,  —  or 
rather,  when  the  under  part  is  cooked,  but  the  top 
rather  liquid  yet,  —  slide  it  over  the  dish,  and  when 
about  half  of  it  is  on  the  dish,  turn  the  pan  upside 
down  so  as  to  fold  the  omelet  over  into  the  form  of 
a  semicircle  ;  then  dust  it  with  sugar.  Have  a  red-hot 
poker,  or  other  piece  of  iron,  with  which  just  touch 
the  omelet  in  spots,  so  as  to  make  an  ornamental 
design,  burning  each  place  slightly,  and  serve.  The 
whole  process  must  be  completed  in  about  three  min- 
utes :  the  quicker,  the  better  the  omelet.  —  Pierre 

Blot. 

Omelet  with  Jelly. 

Put  a  small  quantity  of  lard  or  oil  into  the  pan,  let 
it  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  remove  it ;  wipe  the 
pan  dry  with  a  towel,  and  put  in  a  little  fresh  oil  in 
which  the  omelet  may  be  fried  ;  care  should  be  taken 
that  the  oil  does  not  burn,  which  would  spoil  the 
color  of  the  omelet.  Break  three  eggs  separately ; 
put  them  into  a  bowl,  and  whisk  them  thoroughly 
with  a  fork.  The  longer  they  are  beaten,  the  lighter 
will  the  omelet  be.  Beat  up  a  teaspoonful  of  milk 
with  the  eggs,  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  last 
moment  before  pouring  into  the  pan,  which  should 
be  over  a  hot  fire.  As  soon  as  the  omelet  sets,  re- 
move the  pan  from  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire.  Slip 
a  knife  under  it  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  pan. 
When  the  centre  is  almost  firm,  slant  the  pan,  work 
the  omelet  in  shape  to  fold;  just  before  folding  add 


OMELET  AU  RHUM.  85 

a  teaspoonful  of  currant-jelly ;  turn  it  out  on  a  hot 
dish,  dust  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  serve. 
This  recipe  is  from  "The  Cook,"  and  has  been 
amply  tested.     (By  per.) 

Omelet  au  Rhum. 

Prepare  an  omelet  as  has  been  directed,  fold  it, 
and  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish;  dust  a  liberal  quantity 
of  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  singe  the  sugar  into 
neat  stripes  with  a  hot  iron  rod  heated  on  the 
coals.  Pour  a  wineglassful  of  warmed  Jamaica  rum 
around  it,  and  when  on  the  table  set  fire  to  it ;  with 
a  tablespoon  dash  the  burning  rum  over  the  omelet ; 
blowout  the  fire,  and  serve. — Breakfast  Dainties: 
Thomas  J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Bread  Omelet. 

One  cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs  moistened  with  half 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  three  eggs  beaten  separately 
and  thoroughly,  adding  the  whites  last ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  the  skillet  or  fry- 
ing-pan a  good  piece  of  butter,  and  when  hot,  pour 
in  the  omelet.  Leave  on  the  stove  a  short  time,  and 
then  finish  cooking  in  a  warm  oven.  — Mrs.  Matilda 
J.  Anderson. 

Plain  Omelet. 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  large  bowl ;  beat  them 
thoroughly ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  take  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  mix  very  smoothly  in  a 
small  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  then  pour  it  into  the 
bowl  with  the  eggs,  and  beat  all  well ;  have  ready  a 
skillet  very  hot,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter  melted 


86  HAM  OMELET. 

in  it.  Pour  in  the  omelet,  and  as  soon  as  it  becomes 
"  set "  in  the  middle,  turn  very  carefully.  Serve 
hot. 

Ham  Omelet. 

"Two  eggs,  four  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 
ham.  Mince  the  ham  very  finely,  without  any  fat, 
and  fry  it  for  two  minutes  in  a  little  butter ;  then 
make  the  batter  for  the  omelet,  stir  in  the  ham,  and 
proceed  as  in  the  case  of  a  plain  omelet.  Do  not 
add  any  salt  to  the  batter,  as  the  ham  is  usually  suffi- 
ciently salt  to  impart  a  flavor." 

Asparagus  Omelet. 

"Boil  some  tender  fresh-cut  asparagus  in  very 
little  water  with  a  small  portion  of  salt ;  or,  what  is 
better  still,  steam  the  asparagus  without  water  until 
it  is  tender;  chop  it  very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  yolks 
of  five  and  whites  of  three  well-beaten  eggs ;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream;  fry,  and  serve 
quite  hot." 

Spanish  Omelet. 

Chop  up  half  of  a  sweet  Spanish  pepper ;  peel 
and  cut  up  a  large  tomato  ;  cut  two  ounces  of  ham 
into  dice  ;  mince  three  button  mushrooms  and  half 
an  onion  with  a  clove  of  garlic  ;  season  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  capers.  Put  the  onion  and  ham  in  a 
pan,  and  fry ;  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  simmer 
until  a  thick  pulp  ;  add  to  this  an  omelet  just  before 
folding  it,  and  turning  out  on  a  dish.  Pour  a  well- 
made  tomato-sauce  round  it,  and  serve. 


OMELET  FRITTERS.  S? 

The  ingredients  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste. 
—  Breakfast  Dainties  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey. 
White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Omelet  Fritters. 

Make  two  or  three  thin  omelets,  adding  a  little 
sweet  basil  to  the  usual  ingredients  ;  cut  them  into 
small  pieces,  and  roll  them  into  the  shape  of  olives ; 
when  cold,  dip  them  into  batter,  or  enclose  them  into 
puff -paste,  fry,  and  serve  them  with  fried  parsley.  — 
American  Home  Cook-Book.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald, 
Pubs. 

Soft-boiled  Eggs. 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  warm  saucepan,  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Let  them  stand  where  they  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boil,  for  ten  minutes.  This  method  will 
cook  both  whites  and  yolks.  —  New  Cook-Book  : 
Miss  Parloa.     Estes  &  Lauriat,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

There  is  always  a  best  way  of  doing  every  thing,  if  it  be  to  boil  an 
egg.  —  R.  W.Emerson. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  add  the  salt  to 
them.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Turn  in  the 
beaten  eggs,  stir  quickly  over  a  hot  fire  for  one 
minute,  and  serve. 

Fricasseed  Eggs. 

Boil  half  a  dozen  eggs  hard,  and  cut  them  into 
slices.     Then  make  a  sauce  as  follows :   Chop  very 


88  FROTHED   EGGS. 

fine  a  small  onion,  a  little  parsley,  and  two  or  three 
mushrooms,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Let  them  stew  gently,  but  do  not  brown  them.  Then 
add  a  gill  of  cream  mixed  with  a  little  flour,  for 
thickening  the  sauce,  lay  the  sliced  eggs  in,  allow  all 
to  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve.  —  The  Caterer.  (By 
per.) 

Frothed  Eggs. 

Take  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
four,  and  beat  them  up  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
and  the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon.  Sweeten  it  to 
taste,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  then  fry  the  same  as 
an  omelet.  Have  ready  the  four  remaining  whites 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  pound  of  pulverized 
sugar,  and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Then  dish 
the  omelet,  heap  the  frothed  egg  high  upon  it,  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  —  The 
Caterer.     (By  per) 

Cheese  Fritters. 

"Three  ounces  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  gill  of  tepid 
water,  three  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  butter.  The  flour  and 
condiments  are  put  into  a  basin,  and  the  water  added 
by  degrees.  Then  the  cheese  with  the  yolk  of  the 
egg  is  added,  and  last  the  white  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Drop  this  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard, 
and  cook  three  minutes.  The  results  are  delicious 
golden-brown  balls,  as  big  as  your  fist,  permeated 
with  the  flavor  of  the  cheese." 


WELSH  RAREBIT.  89 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Grate  one  pint  of  cheese  ;  sprinkle  on  it  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Heap  this  on  slices 
of  buttered  toast.  Put  in  the  hot  oven  for  a  few 
moments,  and  when  the  cheese  begins  to  melt,  serve 
at  once.  —  New  Cook-Book  :  Miss  Parloa.  Estes 
&  Lauriat,  Pubs.     (By  per!) 

The  dairy  was  certainly  worth  looking  at ;  it  was  a  scene  to  sicken 
for  with  a  sort  of  calenture  in  hot  and  dusty  streets,  —  such  coolness, 
such  purity,  such  fresh  fragrance  of  new-pressed  cheese,  of  firm 
butter,  of  wooden  vessels  perpetually  bathed  in  pure  water ;  such 
soft  coloring  of  red  earthenware  and  creamy  surfaces,  brown  wood 
and  polished  tin,  gray  limestone  and  rich  orange-red  rust  on  the  iron 
weights  and  hooks  and  hinges.  But  one  gets  only  a  confused  notion 
of  these  details  when  they  surround  a  distractingly  pretty  girl  of 
seventeen,  standing  on  her  little  pattens,  and  rounding  her  dimpled 
arm  to  lift  a  pound  of  butter  out  of  the  scale.  —  Adam  Bede  : 
George  Eliot. 

Curds  and  Cream. 

One  gallon  of  milk  will  make  a  moderate  dish. 
Put  one  spoonful  of  prepared  rennet  to  each  quart 
of  milk,  and  when  you  find  that  it  has  become  curd, 
tie  it  loosely  in  a  thin  cloth,  and  hang  it  to  drain  ; 
do  not  wring  or  press  the  cloth  ;  when  drained,  put 
the  curd  into  a  mug,  and  set  in  cool  water,  which 
must  be  frequently  changed.  (A  refrigerator  saves 
this  trouble.)  When  you  dish  it,  if  there  is  whey 
in  the  mug,  ladle  it  gently  out  without  pressing  the 
curd ;  lay  it  on  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  fresh  cream 
over  it ;  have  powdered  loaf-sugar  to  eat  with  it ; 
also  hand  the  nutmeg-grater.  —  Virginia  Cookery- 
Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers, 
Pubs.     (By  per) 


go  COTTAGE   CHEESE. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Take  two  quarts  of  clabbered  milk,  and  heat  on 
the  stove  until  the  curd  separates  from  the  whey. 
(Be  careful  not  to  cook  it.)  Place  it  to  drain  in  a 
thin  muslin  bag  for  six  or  eight  hours,  then  take  it 
out,  put  in  a  dish,  and  dress  it  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  — Ltdie  Strohm. 


CHAPTER    IX. 


VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS. 


VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS. 

Glittering  in  the  freshened  fields, 
The  snowy  mushroom  springs. 

Campbell. 


Mushrooms,  Stewed. 

If  fresh,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  about  one 

hour,  then  put   them    in   the   stew-pan,   cover  with 

water,  and   stew  gently  until   tender.     Dress  them 

with  cream,  butter,  and  flour,  as  oysters,  and  season 

to  taste. 

Fried  Mushrooms. 

Split,  and  wash  carefully ;  roll  them  in  flour ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  them  in  butter. 
—  Lizzie  Strohm. 

Spinach  and  other  Greens. 

"Take  spinach,  beet,  or  turnip  tops,  poke-sprouts, 
curled  dock,  lamb^s-quarters,  etc.,  and  wash  thoroughly. 
Put  into  just  enough  salted  boiling  water  to  cover. 
When  tender,  squeeze  out  all  the  water,  and  press 
through  a  colander.  Fry  a  few  minutes  with  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Serve  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  Qgg." 

Water-Cresses. 

Wash  well,  pick  off  decayed  leaves,  and  leave  in 
ice- water  until  you  are  ready  to  eat  them.  They 
should  then  be  shaken  free  of  wet,  and  piled  lightly 

93 


94  DANDELION  SALAD. 

in  a  glass  dish.     Eat  with  salt.  —  Marion  Harland. 
The  Post,  Washington,  D.C.     {By  per) 

Dandelion  Salad. 

One  pint  of  the  plants  are  carefully  washed,  and 
placed  in  a  salad-bowl  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
water-cresses,  three  green  onions  or  leeks  sliced,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  plenty  of  oil  or  cream  dress- 
ing:. This  is  one  of  the  most  healthful  and  refresh- 
ing  of  all  early  salads. — Cooking  Manual:  Miss 
Juliet  Corson.     Dodd,  Mead,  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per) 

Mayonnaise. 

When  preparing  a  mayonnaise  in  summer,  keep 
the  bowl  as  cold  as  possible.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs  to  a  smooth  consistency ;  add  two  salt- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  white  pepper,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  oil.  Beat  up  thoroughly,  and  by  degrees 
add  half  a  pint  of  oil.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  The  total  amount  of 
vinegar  to  be  used  is  two  tablespoonfuls ;  and  the 
proper  time  to  stop  adding  oil,  and  to  add  drops  of 
vinegar,  is  when  the  dressing  has  a  glassy  look, 
instead  of  a  velvet  appearance.  After  a  few  trials, 
almost  any  one  can  make  a  mayonnaise,  as  it  is  very 
simple.  — Fifty  Salads  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey.  White, 
Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Cream  Dressing. 

Where  oil  is  disliked  in  salads,  the  following  dress- 
ing will  be  found  excellent.  Rub  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine  with  a  spoon,  incorporate 


LETTUCE  SALAD.  95 

with  them  a  dessertspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  then 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  a  teacup- 
ful  of  thick  cream,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  cay- 
enne-pepper enough  to  take  up  on  the  point  of  a  very- 
small  penknife  blade,  and  a  few  drops  of  anchovy  or 
Worcestershire  sauce ;  add  very  carefully  sufficient 
vinegar  to  reduce  the  mixture  to  a  smooth,  creamy 
consistency.  —  Cooking  Manual  :  Miss  Corson. 
Dodd>  Mead,  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Lettuce  Salad. 

"Take  two  large  lettuces,  pull  off  the  outer  leaves, 
and  throw  them  away ;  take  off  the  others  one  by 
one,  and  cut  in  two,  and  wash  thoroughly.  Cut 
them  up,  and  put  in  a  bowl ;  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  add  three  of  oil  and 
two  of  vinegar,  and  with  a  spoon  and  fork  turn  the 
salad  lightly  in  the  bowl  till  well  mixed  ;  the  less  it 
is  handled,  the  better.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
sliced.  The  flower  of  the  nasturtium,  intermixed 
with  taste  and  care,  improves  the  appearance  of  the 
salad." 

Mustard  and  Cress. 

"  These,  if  eaten  alone,  make  an  excellent  salad. 
Wash  quickly,  and  dress  as  lettuce." 

Radishes. 

Radishes  should  always  be  freshly  gathered.  Let 
them  be  in  cold  water  one  hour  before  serving,  then 
cut  off  all  their  leaves  and  almost  all  their  stalk. 
Serve  them  in  glasses  half  filled  with  water,  or  on  a 
plate.  —  Arthur's  Home  Magazine.     (By per) 


g6  CUCUMBERS. 

Cucumbers. 

"Let  them  be  as  fresh  as  possible,  or  they  will 
be  unwholesome.  Pare,  cut  off  the  stem  end  to  the 
seeds,  and  slice  in  cold  water  some  time  before  they 
are  wanted.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vine- 
gar. Onions  are  frequently  sliced  with  them,  and  are 
an  improvement." 

Melons. 

All  varieties  of  the  cantelope  family,  musk  and 
nutmeg  melons,  are  welcome  to  the  summer  break- 
fast-table. Cut  each  in  half  lengthwise ;  scoop  out 
the  seeds,  put  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  hollows  thus 
made,  and  send  to  table.  They  are  eaten  by  South- 
erners with  pepper  and  salt ;  at  the  North,  with 
sugar.  Give  your  guests  their  choice  of  condi- 
ments. —  Marion  Harland.  The  Post,  Washington, 
D.C, 

To  cook  Asparagus. 

Asparagus  must  be  carefully  washed  and  cleaned, 
and  all  the  tough  parts  cut  off.  Put  into  salted  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Arrange  upon  thin 
slices  of  buttered  toast,  put  some  melted  butter  over 
them,  and  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
stewed.     Set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

I  stick  to  asparagus,  which  still  seems  to  inspire  gentle  thoughts. 
Grace  before  Meat:  Charles  Lamb. 

Green  Peas  stewed  with  Ham  and  Lettuce. 

Put  a  quart  of  young  peas  into  a  bowl  of  cold 
water,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Work  the  butter  and  the  peas  well  together  without 


GREEN  PEAS.  97 

mashing  them,  and  then  drain  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  adding  the  hearts  of  two  heads  of 
lettuce  finely  shredded,  an  onion  cut  into  thin  slices, 
a  little  parsley,  and  half  a  pound  of  ham  cut  into  dice. 
Now  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  place  it  over  a  gentle 
fire,  where  the  contents  may  stew,  shaking  the  stew- 
pan  occasionally  that  they  may  not  burn,  and  adding 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  water  if  necessary.  When  the 
peas  become  tender,  take  out  the  ham  and  the  onion  ; 
mix  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  butter  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  stir  this  into  the  peas. 
Simmer  them  again  gently  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
and  serve  hot.  —  The  Caterer.     (By per.) 

Green  Peas. 

Shell  and  wash,  put  them  into  cold  water  to  cook ; 
when  nearly  done,  salt  them ;  when  tender  (they  will 
generally  cook  in  twenty  minutes)  take  them  up  with 
a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled,  butter 
and  pepper  them,  and  they  are  much  better  to  add  a 
little  sweet  cream,  but  will  do  without.  If  they  are 
cooked  immediately  upon  gathering,  they  will  need  no 
sugar ;  if  allowed  to  remain  twelve  hours  or  more,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  will  be  found  an  addition.  A 
sprig  of  mint  or  a  little  parsley  may  be  added.  — 
Arthur's  Home  Magazine.     (By per.) 

And  the  maize-field  grew  and  ripened, 
Till  it  stood  in  all  the  splendor 
Of  its  garments  green  and  yellow, 
Of  its  tassels-  and  its  plumage ; 
And  the  maize-ears  full  and  shining 
Gleamed  from  bursting  sheaves  of  verdure. 

Hiawatha:  H.  W.  Longfellow.     {By per.  Houghton,  Mifflin,  <S°  Co.) 


98  SWEET  CORAT. 

Sweet  Corn. 

Husk  and  clear  it  of  the  silk,  put  it  in  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes 
or  half  an  hour.  Send  to  table  on  the  cob.  —  Arthur's 
Home  Magazine. 

ANOTHER   WAY. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan 
with  a  teacupful  of  water  to  each  quart  of  corn  ;  cover 
it  closely,  and  let  it  stew  gently.  Add  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  — Arthur's  Home  Magazine. 

Still  another  excellent  way  is  to  prepare  and  sea- 
son corn  as  above,  but  stew  it  in  sweet  milk  instead 
of  water.     Have  sufficient  milk  to  cover  it  well. 

Corn  Oysters. 

"  Take  young  green  corn,  grate  in  a  dish  ;  to  one 

pint  of  this  add  a  small  teacupful  of  flour,  one  egg, 

half  a  cup  of  butter,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix 

well.     Fry  in  butter.     Drop  by  the  spoonful,  the  si^e 

of  an  oyster." 

Succotash. 

"  Common  shelled  beans  may  be  used  for  succo- 
tash, though  Lima  beans  are  the  best.  Prepare  and 
cook  the  beans  as  usual.  About  twenty  minutes  be- 
fore serving,  add  a  quantity  of  sweet  corn  cut  from 
the  cob ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  add 
a  little  sweet  cream.  This  dish  may  be  prepared  with 
pork  if  desirable." 

String  Beans. 

String,  snap,  and  wash  two  quarts  beans,  boil  in 
plenty  of  water  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off,  and  put  on 


LENTILS  BOILED  PLAIN.  gg 

again  in  two  quarts  boiling  water ;  boil  an  hour  and 
a  half,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  just  before  taking 
up,  stirring  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  butter 
rubbed  into  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  a  half-pint 
sweet  cream. 

ANOTHER    WAY. 

Boil  a  piece  of  salted  pork  one  hour,  then  add  beans, 
and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  —  Every-day  Cook-Book  : 
Miss  Neill.     {By per.  Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.) 

Lentils  Boiled  plain. 

Wash  one  pound,  or  one  full  pint,  of  lentils  (cost 
ten  cents)  well  in  cold  water,  put  them  over  the  fire 
in  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  one  ounce  of  drip- 
pings, one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper  (cost  about  one  cent),  and  boil  slowly  until 
tender,  that  is,  about  three  hours ;  drain  off  the  little 
water  which  remains ;  add  to  the  lentils  one  ounce 
of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper 
if  required  (cost  about  three  cents),  and  serve  them 
hot. — Twenty-five-Cent  Dinners:  Miss  Juliet 
Corson.     O.  yudd  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per) 

Mashed  Potato. 

There  is  no  dish  which  is  capable  of  being  made 
into  a  delicious  one,  that  is  so  often  set  before  us  in 
an  unpalatable,  unsavory  condition,  as  the  apparently 
simple  one  of  mashed  potato.  It  may  be  light  unto 
flakiness,  white,  and  with  a  dry  creaminess  that  melts 
in  the  mouth ;  or  it  may  be  a  heavy,  sodden,  packed- 
down  mass,  strongly  flavored  by  the  old  iron  pot. 

To  insure  the  former  composition,   the  potatoes 


IOO  POTATO   HILLOCKS. 

should  be  put  on  in  boiling  water,  and  allowed  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  for  cooking;  test  them 
at  the  end  of  twenty  minutes,  and  if  the  fork  will  go 
into  them  at  all,  take  them  right  off.  Do  not  wait 
until  they  are  so  soft  that  the  piercing  of  a  fork  will 
tear  them  to  pieces.  Pour  every  drop  of  water  off, 
set  them  back  on  the  stove,  with  the  lid  off  one  or 
two  minutes  to  allow  the  steam  to  pass  off,  and  then, 
with  a  wire  beater,  begin  the  mashing  process,  salting 
according  to  the  taste  of  the  family.  To  a  half-gallon 
of  peeled  potatoes,  a  teaspoon  rounded  over  with  salt 
and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  sufficient. 
When  the  lumps  are  thoroughly  beaten  out,  add  a 
half-pint,  or  even  a  little  less,  of  hot  milk,  and  then 
whip  and  beat  until  your  arm  aches  badly.  Put  them 
into  a  heated  dish,  but  do  not  press,  pat,  or  smooth 
them  down,  and  serve  immediately.  —  Commercial 
Gazette,  Cincinnati,  O.     {By  per.) 

Potato  Hillocks. 

Whip  boiled  potatoes  light  with  a  little  butter  and 
milk,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  in  a 
raw  egg  to  bind  the  mixture ;  shape  into  small  coni- 
cal heaps,  set  in  a  greased  pan  in  the  oven,  and  as 
they  brown  glare  with  butter.  The  oven  must  be 
very  hot.  Slip  a  cake-turner  under  each  hillock, 
and  transfer  to  a  hot  platter.  —  Marion  Harland: 
The  Post,  Washington,  D.  C.     (By  per.) 

Potatoes  au  Maitre  d' hotel. 

"  Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  quarter-inch  slices, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  four  or  five  tablespoon- 


SARATOGA   POTATOES.  10 1 

fills  of  milk,  two  of  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt  and 
chopped  parsley.  Heat  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  ready  to  boil,  when  stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.     Serve  very  hot." 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Take  four  large  potatoes  (new  ones  are  best)  ; 
pare,  and  cut  into  thin  slices  on  a  slaw-cutter;  put 
them  into  salt  water,  and  let  stand  while  breakfast  is 
preparing.  Then  have  ready  a  skillet  of  boiling  lard. 
Take  a  handful  of  the  potatoes,  squeeze  the  water 
from  them,  and  dry  in  a  napkin  ;  separate  the  slices, 
and  drop  into  the  lard,  being  careful  that  the  pieces 
do  not  adhere  to  each  other.  Stir  with  a  fork  till  they 
are  a  light  brown  color.  Take  them  out  with  a  wire 
spoon,  and  drain  well  before  putting  into  the  dish. 
Do  not  put  more  than  a  handful  into  the  lard  at  a 
time.  Do  not  cover  the  dish  when  served.  —  Pres- 
byterian Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  W.  S.,  Dayton,  O. 
{By  per.) 

Potato  Scones. 

"  Mash  boiled  potatoes  till  they  are  quite  smooth, 
adding  a  little  salt ;  then  knead  out  with  flour  to  the 
thickness  required  ;  toast,  pricking  them  with  a  fork 
to  prevent  their  blistering.  When  eaten  with  fresh 
butter,  they  are  very  nutritious." 

Potato  Stew. 

Wash  and  pare  three  or  four  good-sized  potatoes, 
and  cut  them  into  small  pieces ;  boil  until  tender ; 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  put  in  three  pints  of 
sweet  milk ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  two  cupfuls 


102  POTATO  SALAD. 

of  nice  wheat  bread  crumbed  (not  too  small) ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Potato  Salad. 

Cut  up  into  slices  two  quarts  of  boiled  potatoes 
while  hot;  add  to  them  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped 
onion  and  parsley ;  pour  over  them  a  liberal  quantity 
of  plain  salad-dressing.  If  the  potatoes  should  then 
appear  too  dry,  add  a  little  hot  water,  or,  better  still, 
soup-stock ;  toss  lightly  so  as  not  to  break  the  slices ; 
then  place  the  salad  on  ice  to  become  cold.  Serve 
by  placing  a  leaf  of  lettuce  on  each  small  plate,  and 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  potato  to  the  lettuce, 
for  each  person.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  do  not  make 
a  good  potato-salad.  —  Fifty  Salads  :  Thomas  J. 
Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

To  Boil  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Wash  them  perfectly  clean,  put  them  into  a  pot  or 
stew-pan,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover  them  ; 
cover  the  pot  close,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour,  or 
more  if  the  potatoes  are  large ;  try  them  with  a  fork ; 
when  done,  drain  off  the  water,  take  off  the  skins,  and 
serve. 

Cold  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  across  or 
lengthwise,  and  fried  or  broiled  as  common  potatoes. 
—  The  Every-day  Cook-Book  :  Miss  Neill. 

Society  expects  every  man  to  have  certain  things  in  his  garden. 
Not  to  raise  cabbage,  is  as  if  one  had  no  pew  in  church.  Perhaps  we 
shall  come  some  day  to  free  churches  and  free  gardens ;  when  I  can 
show  my  neighbor  through  my  tired  garden,  at  the  end  of  the  season, 
when  skies  are  overcast,  and  brown  leaves  are  swirling  down,  and  not 
mind  if  he  does  raise  his  eyebrows  when  he  observes,  "  Ah !  I  see 
you  have  none  of  this,  and  of  that."    At  present  we  want  the  moral 


BOILED   CABBAGE.  103 

courage  to  plant  only  what  we  need;  to  spend  only  what  will  bring  us 
peace,  regardless  of  what  is  going  on  over  the  fence.  —  My  Summer 
IN  A  Garden  :  Chas.  D.  Warner.  Houghton,  Mifflin,  &>  Co.,  Pubs. 
(By  per.) 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cut  the  cabbage  in  quarters,  and  wash  very  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water.  Put  it  into  a  pot  in  which  a 
good  piece  of  beef  or  pork  has  already  been  boiling 
for  half  an  hour  and  been  well  skimmed.  Boil 
until  the  cabbage  is  tender,  and  a  little  before  dish- 
ing out  put  in  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

To  Stew  Cabbage  a  la  Cauliflower. 

Parboil  in  milk  and  water,  and  drain  it,  then  shred 
it,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
a  small  teacupful  of  cream,  and  seasoning,  and  stew 
tender.  —  Peterson 's  Magazine.     {By  per.) 

Red  Cabbage  Stewed. 

After  slicing  a  small  red  cabbage,  and  well  wash- 
ing it,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
butter,  but  no  more  water  than  will  hang  about  it 
after  the  washing.  Let  it  stew  until  quite  tender, 
and  shortly  before  serving  add  two  or  three  spoon- 
fuls of  vinegar,  and  give  it  one  boil  over  the  fire. 
It  may  be  sent  up  with  cold  meat,  or  with  sausages 
on  it.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     {By per.) 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 

In  a  small  granite  stewer  beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
(this  for  a  pint  of  finely  shaved  cabbage),  add  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  pepper, 


104  STEWED    TOMATOES. 

half  a  teacupful  each  of  vinegar  and  water ;  put  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  to  simmer,  and  stir  in  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  flour  made  smooth  with  water ;  when 
boiled,  pour  over  the  cabbage.  This  is  a  favorite 
dressing.  —  Commercial  Gazette,  Cincinnati,  O.  (By 
per.) 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  a  quart  of  fine  ripe  toma'toes.  Put 
on  to  stew,  and  when  nearly  done  add  a  good-sized 
lump  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  stale  bread- 
crumbs.    Cook  well  and  thoroughly,  stirring  often. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 

"  Large  solid  tomatoes  are  cut  in  halves  cross- 
wise, placed  on  a  gridiron  or  broiler,  and  put  over  a 
brisk  fire,  cut  surface  down.  In  eight  or  ten  minutes, 
according  to  size,  turn,  put  upon  each  half  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  lump  of  butter,  and  cook  with  the 
skin-side  down,  rather  more  slowly  than  before,  about 
as  long,  or  until  done.  When  sufficiently  broiled, 
place  upon  a  platter  with  the  cut  side  up,  and  nicely 
butter  the  surface.  This  gives  a  proper  seasoning 
to  the  dish,  which  is  now  ready  for  the  breakfast- 
table." 

Tomatoes  au  Gratin. 

This  simple  and  delicious  dish  is  made  by  cutting 
some  ripe  tomatoes  in  half,  putting  them  in  a  but- 
tered dish  with  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  baking  till  slightly  browned  on  the  top.  — 
Arthur's  Home  Magazine.     (By per.) 


BOILED   ONIONS.  105 

I  doubt  not  that  all  men  and  women  love  the  onion  ;  but  few  con- 
fess their  love.  Affection  for  it  is  concealed.  Good  New-Englanders 
are  as  shy  of  owning  it  as  they  are  of  talking  about  religion.  Some 
people  have  days  on  which  they  eat  onions  —  what  you  might  call 
"retreats,"  or  their  "Thursdays." — My  Summer  in  a  Garden: 
Chas.  D.   Warner.     {By per.) 

Boiled  Onions. 

Wash  the  onions  well,  and  peel,  and  if  large  cut 
in  half.  Boil  in  several  waters,  draining  well  each 
time ;  and  when  done,  add  for  seasoning,  butter, 
cream  or  rich  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  a 
few  minutes  after  seasoning  is  added. 


Baked  Onions. 

Boil  the  onions  slightly  in  water ;  cut  in  halves, 
and  take  out  the  centres.  Fill  the  cups  with  a 
stuffing  of  bread-crumbs  moistened  with  an  egg  and 
a  little  butter ;  season  with  grated  cheese,  pepper, 
and  thyme.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  with  a  little 
gravy  to  prevent  from  burning. — Boston  Bulletin. 

Turnips  a  la  Poulette. 

Cut  the  turnips  in  dice,  and  put  in  a  saucepan. 
When  boiled  tender,  turn  them  into  a  colander. 
Put  a  little  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir. 
Add  a  gill  of  milk,  and  stir,  then  the  turnips,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  —  Peterson's  Magazine. 

To  Stew  Celery. 

"  Wash  well,  and  cut  into  lengths  of  three  or  four 
inches;  stew  them  with  a  little  broth  until  tender; 
then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  some  floured 


lo6  BEETS. 

butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer 
all  together." 

Such  vegetables  as  celery  ought  to  lengthen  human  life,  at  least, 
to  correct  its  biliousness,  and  make  it  more  sweet  and  sanguine. — 
Locusts  and  Wild  Honey:  John  Burroughs.  Houghton,  Mifflin, 
&>  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Beets. 

Clean  these  nicely,  but  do  not  pare  them,  leaving 
on  a  short  piece  of  the  stalk.  Then  put  on  to  boil  in 
'iot  water.  Young  beets  will  cook  tender  in  an  hour  ; 
old  beets  require  several  hours'  boiling.  When  done, 
skin  quickly  while  hot,  slice  thin  into  your  vegetable- 
ciish,  put  on  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  put  over 
a  little  vinegar,  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  — The  Every- 
day Cook-Book  :  Miss  Ncill.  Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co., 
Pubs.     {By  per) 

Parsnip  Fritters. 

Boil  four  or  five  parsnips  ;  when  tender,  take  off  the 
skin  and  mash  them  fine  ;  add  to  them  a  teaspoonful 
of  wheat  flour  and  a  beaten  egg.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard  or  beef-dripping  in  a  frying-pan  over  the 
fire,  add  to  it  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  ;  when  boiling 
hot,  put  in  the  parsnips,  making  them  in  small  cakes 
with  a  spoon ;  when  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown, 
turn  the  other ;  when  both  are  done,  take  them  on  a 
dish,  put  a  very  little  of  the  fat  in  which  they  were 
fried  over,  and  serve  hot.  These  resemble  very 
nearly  the  taste  of  the  salsify  or  oyster-plant.  —  The 
Every-day  Cook-Book  :  Miss  Neill.  Belford,  Clarke, 
&  Co.,  Pubs. 

Squashes. 

"  Cut  them  up,  and  remove  the  seeds,  and  cook  in 
hot  water  until  tender.  Then  mash  them,  and  dress 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper." 


EGG-PLANT.  107 

Egg-Plant. 

Cut  the  plant  into  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick, 
without  removing  the  skin.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each 
slice,  pile  them,  and  cover  with  a  weight  to  press  out 
the  juice.  Drain,  and  dip  each  slice  first  in  fine 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  and  again  in  crumbs, 
and  saute  them  in  hot  fat.  —  The  Peerless  Cook- 
Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.     {By  per) 

Rice,  Japanese  Style. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  well-washed  rice  into  a  double 
kettle,  with  one  pint  of  milk  or  water,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  quarter  of  a  medium-sized 
nutmeg  grated ;  boil  it  until  tender,  about  forty  min- 
utes ;  if  it  seems  very  dry,  add  a  little  more  liquid, 
taking  care  not  to  have  it  sloppy  when  it  is  cooked. 
When  milk  is  used,  it  may  be  served  with  milk  and 
sugar  as  a  breakfast  or  tea  dish  ;  when  water  takes 
the  place  of  milk,  the  addition  of  an  ounce  of  butter 
and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  makes  a  nice  dinner 
dish  of  it.  — Twenty-five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet 
Corson.     {By  per.) 

Baked  Macaroni. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  until  quite  soft ; 
put  it  into  a  vegetable-dish,  with  a  little  mustard, 
pepper,  and  salt,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  some 
grated  cheese.  Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  —  Pres- 
byterian Cook-Book.     {By  per.) 


CHAPTER    X. 


PICKLES. 


PICKLES. 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 

Take  small  cucumbers,  wash  them  carefully,  and 
let  them  drain,  then  pack,  them  in  a  jar.  Make  a 
brine  of  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water ; 
boil  and  skim  it,  and  when  cool  pour  over  the  pickles, 
and  let  them  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  take 
them  out  of  the  brine,  wipe  them  dry,  and  put  in  a 
jar.  Boil  strong  vinegar  with  such  spices  as  desired 
(tie  the  spices  in  a  little  cloth),  and  when  the  vinegar 
is  cold  pour  it  over  the  pickles.  In  a  few  days  they 
will  be  ready  for  use.  —  Miss  Lizzie  Strohm. 

To  Pickle  Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Pare  them,  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  in  rings  an  inch 
thick,  then  simmer  in  weak  alum-water  an  hour ;  take 
them  out,  drain  them,  and  lay  them  carefully  in  a  jar. 
Then  prepare  a  sirup  of  one  gallon  good  vinegar,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  and  one  ounce  gin- 
ger-root ;  pour  it  hot  over  your  pickles.  This  is  a 
delightful  pickle,  and  will  keep,  sealed  up,  a  long 
time.  —  Godey  's  Lady 's  Book.     {By  per.) 

Pickled  Onions. 

Take  small  white  onions,  and  peel  them  ;  lay  them 
in  salt  water  for  two  days ;  change  the  water  once, 
then  drain  them  in  a  cloth,  and  put  them  in  bottles. 


I  1 2  GREEN  TO  MA  TO   PICKLES. 

Boil  mace,  pepper,  and  vinegar  together ;  let  it  cool, 
and  pour  over  the  pickles.  —  Presbyterian  Cook- 
Book,  Dayton,  O.     {By  per.) 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. 

"  A  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  ;  one  dozen 
onions,  sliced  also  ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  until  the  next  day,  when  drain  them. 
Then  use  the  following  as  spices  :  one  box  of  mustard, 
one  and  a  half  ounces  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of 
whole  cloves,  one  ounce  of  yellow  mustard-seed,  one 
ounce  of  allspice.  Put  in  the  kettle  a  layer  of  spices, 
and  one  of  tomatoes  and  onions,  alternately.  Cover 
them  with  vinegar  :  wet  the  mustard  before  putting 
it  in.  Let  the  whole  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  you 
will  have  pickles  so  good  that  you  will  be  pestered 
by  all  your  friends  asking  you  for  the  recipe." 

Piccalilly. 

Take  green  tomatoes,  chopped  very  fine ;  sprinkle 
well  with  salt,  let  stand  tvventj'-four  hours,  drain  off, 
and  put  in  a  stone  jar.  Take  about  half  the  quantity 
of  cucumbers,  and  the  same  of  cabbage ;  after  they 
are  chopped,  put  into  jars  separately,  and  cover  with 
cold  vinegar.  Take  about  one-quarter  as  much  white 
onions  chopped  ;  salt,  and  pour  boiling  water  on 
them  ;  let  stand  a  few  hours,  drain  off,  and  cover 
with  vinegar  as  above.  Let  all  remain  several  days 
in  a  cool  place,  then  press  very  dry,  and  mix  together. 
Add  some  yellow  and  black  mustard-seed,  celery- 
seed,  and  a  bountiful  supply  of  grated  horseradish, 
with  a  few  green  peppers  chopped  fine.     Then  take 


MANGO.  113 

the  best  vinegar,  and  about  four  pounds  of  brown 
sugar  to  each  gallon.  Boil  it  in  part  of  the  vinegar, 
skim  well,  and  pour  over  the  whole.  Add  as  much 
cold  vinegar  as  is  required.  —  Presbyterian  Cook- 
Book  :  Mrs.  J.  F.  Edgar. 

Mango. 

"A  green  muskmelon,  stuffed  and  pickled." — Worcester. 

Take  an  unripe  muskmelon,  just  before  they  begin 
to  ripen  the  better,  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  cut  out  a 
small  section  on  the  side  most  rounded,  and  scoop 
out  the  seeds  and  soft  pulp ;  scrape  off  the  soft  mat- 
ter from  the  section,  and  preserve  it  for  the  "lid." 
Pare  off  the  rind  carefully,  so  as  to  leave  all  of  the 
tender  portion  of  the  shell.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  in  the  cavity,  place  it  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  hot 
water  in  and  over  it,  and  let  it  remain  eight  to  twelve 
hours.  Then  have  your  filling, — generally  of  finely 
chopped  cabbage,  but  it  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Beet- 
stems,  tender  string-beans,  radish  seed-pods,  etc.,  can 
be  used.  Three  or  four  small  slices  of  green  pepper, 
lining  the  shell,  will  spice  it ;  white  mustard-seed,  or 
any  other  condiment,  is  good.  A  preferable  way  is 
to  tie  up  in  a  small  piece  of  muslin  the  spices  you 
desire,  and  boil  them  in  the  vinegar  in  which  you 
pickle  it. 

The  hot  water  and  salt  make  the  shell  soft  and 
pliable,  and  render  the  "  stuffing "  process  easy. 
When  filled,  stitch  the  segment  cut  out  of  it  carefully 
over  the  aperture. 

A  common  practice  is  to  "disembowel"  a  largt 
red  or  green  pepper,  and  fill  it  with  the  chopped  vege- 


114  TO  PICKLE  BEET-ROOT. 

table.  But  the  advantage  in  the  melon  is,  that  the 
rind  is  better  than  the  best  cucumber  pickle.  — /.  5. 
"  The  E/ms,"  near  Dayton,  O. 

To  Pickle  Beet-root. 

This  vegetable  makes  an  excellent  pickle,  and 
from  the  brightness  of  its  color  has  a  very  pretty 
effect  in  a  glass  pickle-dish  or  jar.  Wash  the  beet 
perfectly ;  do  not  cut  off  any  of  the  fibrous  roots,  as 
this  would  allow  the  juice  to  escape,  and  thus  the 
coloring  would  be  lost.  Put  it  into  sufficient  water 
to  boil  it,  and  when  the  skin  will  come  off  it  will  be 
sufficiently  cooked,  and  may  be  taken  out  and  laid 
upon  a  cloth  to  cool.  Having  rubbed  off  the  skin, 
cut  the  beet  into  thick  slices,  put  it  into  a  jar,  and 
pour  over  it  cold  vinegar  prepared  as  follows  :  Boil 
a  quart  of  vinegar  with  one  ounce  of  whole  black 
pepper  and  an  equal  weight  of  dry  ginger,  and  let 
it  stand  until  quite  cold.  The  jar  should  be  kept 
closely  corked.  — Peterson  s  Magazine.     {By  per) 

To  Pickle  Carrot. 

"  Boil  carrots  until  tender,  cut  them  in  fancy  shapes, 
and  put  them  in  strong  vinegar.  This  is  a  pretty 
garnish  and  an  excellent  pickle.  It  can  be  spiced 
or  flavored  to  suit  the  taste." 

To  Pickle  Red  Cabbage. 

Cut  the  cabbage  across  in  very  thin  slices,  lay  it 
on  a  large  dish,  sprinkle  a  good  handful  of  salt  over 
it,  and  cover  it  with  another  dish  ;  let  it  stand  twenty- 


TO   PICKLE  MUSHROOMS.  115 

four  hours  ;  put  it  in  a  colander  to  drain,  and  then  lay 
it  in  the  jar.  Take  white-wine  vinegar  sufficient  to 
cover  it,  a  little  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice,  and  put 
them  in  whole,  with  one  pennyworth  of  cochineal 
bruised  fine,  and  some  whole  pepper.  Boil  it  all  up 
together,  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  pour  it  over  the 
cabbage,  and  tie  the  jar  over  with  leather.  —  Ameri- 
can Home  Cook-Book.  {By  per.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald, 
Pubs.) 

To  Pickle  Mushrooms. 

Take  button  mushrooms ;  rub  and  clean  them  with 
flannel  and  salt  ;  throw  some  salt  over  them,  and  lay 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  mace  and  pepper.  While 
the  liquor  comes  from  them,  keep  shaking  them  well 
till  the  whole  is  dried  into  them  again  ;  then  pour  in 
as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  them  ;  warm  them  on 
the  fire,  and  turn  them  into  a  jar. 

Mushrooms  prepared  in  this  manner  are  excellent, 
and  will  keep  for  two  years. — American  Home 
Cook-Book.     (By  per.  Dick  &  Fitzgerald,  Pubs.) 

Pickled  Eggs. 

Boil  one  or  two  dozen  eggs  until  hard ;  when  cool 
enough,  remove  the  shells  carefully,  and  then  put  the 
eggs  in  a  jar  containing  vinegar  in  which  beets  have 
been  pickled.  They  will  become  a  deep  red,  or  fine 
pink,  according  to  the  hue  of  the  beets.  In  serving 
the  eggs,  cut  off  a  thin  slice  from  the  large  end, 
which  will  make  them  stand  upright  on  the  dish,  and 
stick  several  cloves  in  the  top  of  each.  They  look 
very  pretty,  and  are  as  good  as  they  look. 


Il6  TO  PICKLE  NASTURTIUMS. 

To  Pickle  Nasturtiums. 

Take  green  nasturtiums  fresh  from  the  vines  ;  put 
them  in  salt  and  water  for  one  day,  then  drain  in  a 
napkin.  Put  them  in  glass  jars,  and  cover  with 
strong  vinegar ;  keep  the  bottles  closely  corked. 
Are  equal  to  capers,  with  roast  lamb.  —  Presbyte- 
rian Cook-Book.     Dayton,  O.     {By  per) 

Pickled  Barberries. 

Soak  nice  large  bunches  of  barberries  in  salt  and 
water  for  a  few  hours.  Remove  from  the  water,  and 
pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them.  Spice  the  vinegar 
if  you  prefer.  These  are  ornamental  for  salad-gar- 
nishing. They  may  be  kept  for  some  time  in  the 
brine,  and  freshened  when  used.  —  The  Peerless 
Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Redding  &  Co.,  Pubs. 
{By  per) 

To  Pickle  Walnuts. 

Take  one  hundred  walnuts  soft  enough  to  allow  a 
needle  to  pass  through  them  ;  lay  them  in  water,  with 
a  good  handful  of  salt,  for  two  days,  then  change  to 
fresh  water  and  another  handful  of  salt  for  three 
days  ;  then  drain,  and  lay  them  on  some  clean  straw 
or  a  sieve,  in  the  sun,  until  quite  black  and  wrinkled  ; 
afterwards  put  into  a  clean,  dry  glass  bottle  or  jar  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ginger,  half  a  pint  of 
mustard-seed,  and  half  an  ounce  of  peppercorns ; 
these  to  be  mixed  in  layers  with  the  walnuts  until 
your  walnuts  are  all  used ;  then  pour  over  them  boil- 
ing vinegar  to  cover  them.  Ready  for  use  in  two 
months.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     {By per) 


TOMATO   CATSUP.  WJ 

Tomato  Catsup.     No.  i. 

Take  a  half-bushel  tomatoes,  and  peel,  steam,  and 
strain  them  ;  then  boil  down,  and  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  ginger,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  two  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  red  pepper,  two-thirds  teacup  of  salt, 
and  one  pint  of  cider-vinegar.  —  Osbom  (O.)  Local. 

Tomato  Catsup.     No.  2. 

"  Take  ripe  tomatoes,  and  scald  them  just  suffi- 
cient to  allow  you  to  take  off  the  skin ;  then  let  them 
stand  for  a  day  covered  with  salt ;  strain  them  thor- 
oughly to  remove  the  seeds ;  then  to  every  two 
quarts  add  three  ounces  of  cloves,  two  of  black  pep- 
per, two  nutmegs,  and  a  very  little  cayenne-pepper, 
with  a  little  salt.  Boil  the  liquor  for  half  an  hour, 
then  let  it  cool  and  settle  ;  add  a  pint  of  the  best 
cider-vinegar,  after  which  bottle  it,  corking  and  seal- 
ing it  tightly.     Keep  it  always  in  a  cool  place." 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Take  one  peck  of  large,  ripe  cucumbers,  peel, 
slice  in  half,  and  take  out  the  seeds  ;  chop  very  fine  ; 
add  one  dozen  onions,  also  chopped  fine ;  salt  them 
well,  and  put  to  drain  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  When  taken  out,  season  with  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  black  and  white  mustard-seed,  and 
one  large  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper;  mix  thor- 
oughly, and  add  vinegar  enough  to  cover  well.  (A 
little  grated  horseradish  is  an  improvement.)  Put  in 
glass  jars  or  bottles.  — Lizzie  Strohm. 


Il8  GRAPE   CATSUP. 

.Grape  Catsup. 

Five  pints  grapes,  three  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  of 
vinegar,  cloves  and  cinnamon  unground.  Take  the 
skins  from  the  pulp,  and  cook  the  latter  until  you  can 
separate  it  from  the  seeds ;  then  boil  the  sugar, 
vinegar,  pulp,  and  spices  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
and  just  before  taking  off  add  the  skins.  —  Osborn 
(O.)  Local. 

Spiced  Currants. 

"  Five  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  sugar,  one 
pint  of  vinegar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  four 
of  cloves.  Boil  three  hours.  No  pepper  or  salt. 
Delightful  with  venison  or  mutton." 

Pear  Pickles. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  pears  halved  and  cored,  lay 
the  pieces  together,  and  pack  them  all  closely  in  a 
preserving-kettle.  Add  two  ounces  of  cinnamon- 
bark  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  one  pint  of  vinegar  ;  cover  them  up,  and 
set  on  a  slow  fire  to  boil.  Boil  down  until  thoroughly 
cooked,  requiring  two  or  three  hours.  Put  in  a  stone 
jar,  and  cover  with  white  paper  wet  with  brandy.  — 
Mrs.  Matilda  J.  Anderson,  Dayton,  O. 

Pickled  Muskmelon. 

Take  a  ripe  melon  (cantaloupe),  peel,  and  cut  in 
blocks.  Then  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized 
alum  dissolved  in  hot  water,  pour  over,  and  add  cold 
water  until  they  are  covered.  (Press  them  down 
with  a  plate.)    Let  them  stand  over  night,  then  drain 


PICKLED  MUSKMELON.  II9 

off,  and  rinse  well  in  cold  water.  Take  a  quart  of 
vinegar  and  two  pounds  of  sugar,  boil,  and  pour 
over.  Do  this  for  nine  mornings,  adding  to  the 
vinegar  and  sugar  if  necessary.  The  ninth  morning 
tie  up  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  an  ounce  of  cloves  and 
two  ounces  of  cinnamon-bark,  boil  in  the  vinegar, 
then  add  your  melon,  and  boil  a  short  time.  In  put- 
ting the  pickle  away  in  a  jar,  place  the  muslin  bag 
containing  the  spices,  among  them  on  the  top  :  it 
aids  in  preserving  the  flavor.  —  Mrs.  Matilda  J. 
Anderson. 


CHAPTER    XI. 


PRESERVES,  JAMS,  AND  JELLIES. 


PRESERVES,   JAMS,    AND  JELLIES. 
To  Preserve  Peaches. 

"  The  clear-stone  yellow  peaches,  white  at  the 
stone,  are  the  best.  Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  pared. 
To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put 
a  layer  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the  preserving- 
kettle,  and  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on  until  the 
fruit  is  all  in.  Stand  it  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar 
is  entirely  dissolved ;  then  boil  them  until  they  are 
clear ;  take  them  out  piece  by  piece,  and  spread  them 
on  a  dish  free  from  sirup.  Boil  the  sirup  in  the 
pan  until  it  jellies  ;  when  the  peaches  are  cold,  fill 
the  jars  half  full  with  them,  and  fill  up  with  boiling 
sirup.  Let  them  stand  a  short  time  covered  with  a 
thin  cloth ;  then  put  on  brandied  paper,  and  cover 
them  close  with  corks,  skin,  or  paper.  From  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes  will  generally  be  sufficient  to  pre- 
serve them." 

Peach  Leather. 

Stew  as  many  peaches  as  you  choose,  allowing  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit  ;  mash  it 
up  smooth  as  it  cooks ;  when  it  is  dry  enough  to 
spread  in  a  thin  sheet  on  a  board  greased  with  butter, 
set  it  out  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  and  when  dry  it  can  be 
rolled  up  like  leather,  wrapped  up  in  a  cloth,  and  will 
keep  perfectly  from  season  to  season.     School  chil- 

123 


124  T0  PRESERVE  PEARS. 

dren  regard  it  as  a  delightful  addition  to"  their  lunch 
of  biscuit  or  cold  bread.  Apple  and  quince  leather 
are  made  in  the  same  fashion,  only  a  little  flavoring 
of  spice  or  lemon  is  added  to  them.  These  leathers 
are  made  in  the  Valley  of  Virginia,  and  seldom  seen 
elsewhere  in  the  State.  —  Virginia  Cookery-Book  : 
Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs. 
(By  per) 

To  Preserve  Pears. 

For  preserving,  small  pears  are  better  than  large 
ones.  Pare  them,  and  make  a  sirup  with  their 
weight  of  sugar  and  a  little  water.  Leave  the  stem 
on,  and  stick  a  clove  in  the  blossom  end  of  each. 
Stew  till  perfectly  transparent. — Arthur's  Home 
Magazine.     {By  per) 

Preserved  Cherries. 

Stone,  and  to  every  pound  take  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Place  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  your  kettle  in  alternate 
layers,  and  boil  and  skim  until  the  cherries  are 
tender  and  the  sirup  is  rich. — Arthur's  Home 
Magazine.     (By  per. ) 

Preserved  Crab  Apple. 

"  Take  the  red  Siberian  crab-apple ;  leave  the 
stems  on,  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling  in  water  suffi- 
cient to  cover  them.  When  the  skins  break,  skim 
them  out  of  the  pan,  and  remove  the  skins.  Allow 
one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  teacup 
of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  water  and 
sugar  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.     To  the  sirup 


TO  PRESERVE    WATERMELON-RINDS.  1 25 

add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every  three  pounds  of 
fruit  ;  add  the  fruit,  boil  until  tender,  and  can  imme- 
diately." 

To  Preserve  Watermelon-Rinds. 

Do  not  cut  your  rinds  too  thin  ;  pare  off  the  out- 
side green  rind  ;  soak  them  two  days  in  clean  soft 
water,  and  then  drain  them.  Take  six  pounds  of 
sugar  and  three  pints  of  water,  boil  to  a  thick  sirup ; 
then  add  your  watermelon-rinds,  and  boil  until  they 
are  clear ;  flavor  with  orange-flower  water ;  cool,  and 
put  away  in  jars  for  use.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book. 
(By  per.) 

Tomato  Preserves. 

"  Take  the  round  yellow  variety  as  soon  as  ripe ; 
scald  and  peel ;  then  to  seven  pounds  of  tomatoes 
add  seven  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  let  them  stand 
over  night ;  take  the  tomatoes  out  of  the  sugar,  and 
boil  the  sirup,  removing  the  scum  ;  put  in  the  toma- 
toes, and  boil  gently  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes ; 
remove  the  fruit  again,  and  boil  until  the  sirup 
thickens.  On  cooling,  put  the  fruit  into  jars,  and 
pour  the  sirup  over  it,  and  add  a  few  slices  of  lemon 
to  each  jar,  and  you  will  have  something  to  please 
the  taste  of  the  most  fastidious." 

To  Preserve  Tomatoes. 

In  many  gardens  there  is  a  plentiful  supply  of 
green  tomatoes  yet  on  the  vines,  that  will  not  ripen. 
Allow  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar  to  one  pound 
of  fruit.  Put  into  the  preserving-pan,  and  add  just 
enough  water  to  make  sufficient  sirup.     Do  not  put 


126  PRESERVED  BARBERRIES. 

too  much  water  at  first,  as  you  can  add  it  if  there  is 
not  enough.  Lemons  should  be  sliced  and  put  into 
it  in  the  proportion  of  one  lemon  to  every  two 
pounds  of  fruit.  Cook  until  done  through,  and  the 
sirup  looks  thick.  They  make  an  excellent  preserve, 
and  taste  much  like  preserved  figs.  —  Public  Ledger, 
Philadelphia.     (By  per. ) 

Preserved  Barberries. 

Stem  the  barberries,  then  drop  them  either  into 
molasses  that  has  been  boiling  ten  minutes  (at  the 
rate  of  a  quart  of  fruit  to  a  pint  of  molasses)  or  in 
half  molasses  and  half  sugar,  and  then  boil  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  and  skim  out,  and  boil  sirup  slowly 
about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer;  then  take  off,  and 
drop  berries  in.  The  addition  of  hard  sweet  apples 
is  considered  an  improvement.  Pare  and  quarter 
these,  drop  them  in  after  berries  are  skimmed  out, 
and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  apples  are 
cooked ;  when  take  off,  and  put  back  the  berries.  — 
J.J.  H.  Gregory.     {By per) 

Quince  Cheese. 

"  Have  fine  ripe  quinces,  and  pare  and  core  them. 
Cut  them  into  pieces,  and  weigh  them,  and  to  each 
pound  of  the  cut  quinces  allow  half  a  pound  of  the 
best  brown  sugar.  Put  the  cores  and  parings  into  a 
kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  them,  keeping  the 
lid  of  the  kettle  closed.  When  you  find  that  they 
are  all  boiled  to  pieces,  and  quite  soft,  strain  off  the 
water  over  the  sugar,  and  when  it  is  entirely  dis- 


APPLE  BUTTER.  1 27 

solved,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  boil  to  a  thick  sirup, 
skimming  it  well.  When  no  more  scum  rises,  put 
in  the  quinces,  cover  them  closely,  and  boil  them  all 
day  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  them  and  mashing  them 
down  with  a  spoon  till  they  are  a  thick,  smooth  paste. 
Then  take  it  out,  and  put  it  into  buttered  tin  pans  or 
deep  dishes.  Let  it  set  to  get  cold.  It  will  turn  out 
so  firm  that  you  may  cut  it  into  slices,  like  cheese. 
Keep  it  in  a  dry  place,  in  broad  stone  pots.  It  is  in- 
tended for  the  tea-table." 

Apple  Butter. 

Boil  a  barrel  of  new  cider  down  one  half ;  then  dip 
it  out  into  jars,  and  put  in  the  kettle  a  couple  of 
buckets  of  cider  not  boiled.  In  this  put  three  bushels 
of  apples  nicely  pared  and  cut  in  quarters.  When 
stewed  to  a  sauce,  add  the  boiled  cider.  (Keep  adding 
this  until  all  is  used.)  Stir  constantly  eight  or  ten 
hours.  When  done,  spice  with  a  teacupful  of  cinna- 
mon, and  half  as  much  of  cloves.  Put  away  in  jars ; 
when  cool,  cover  nicely  with  paper. 

Strawberry  Jam. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  jar,  and  stand  this  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  over  the  fire.  As  the  boiling  proceeds, 
keep  mashing  the  strawberries  with  a  wooden  spatula 
until  they  are  all  bruised  to  a  pulp.  Then  put  them 
into  a  preserving-pan,  and  to  every  pound  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  whole  until 
of  due  consistence,  which  will  occupy  more  than  half 
an  hour,  keeping  the  jam  in  constant  agitation  lest 


1 28  RASPBERR  Y  JAM. 

the  bottom  should  burn.  When  done  enough,  take 
it  off  the  fire,  and  put  it  into  pots.  — Peterson's  Maga- 
zine.    (By  per) 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Let  the  raspberries  be  thoroughly  ripe.  Mash 
them  with  a  wooden  spoon.  To  every  pound  of  rasp- 
berries add  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar.  Boil  this  well 
together  during  half  an  hour,  stirring  it  continually 
lest  it  should  burn.  When  of  a  good  thickness, 
put  it  into  pots,  and  proceed  to  tie  up. — Peterson's 
Magazine.      (By  per) 

Blackberry  Jam. 

Six  quarts  of  ripe  berries  and  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Mash  together,  and  put  into  a  kettle 
and  boil  two  hours,  stirring  frequently.  Spice  to 
taste,  or  omit  spices  altogether.  When  cool,  put  it 
into  a  jar,  cover  with  brandied  paper,  and  seal,  and 
it  will  keep  for  years. — Arthur's  Home  Magazine. 
(By  per) 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

"Stew  the  berries  in  a  little  water,  put  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  put  them  back  into  the  kettle, 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  the  stewed  berries.  Boil  for  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour ;  and  they  will  need  constant  stirring,  or 
they  will  certainly  burn.  You  can  easily  determine 
whether  a  jam  requires  more  boiling,  by  taking  a 
small  quantity  out  on  a  saucer.  If  it  looks  bright 
and  glistening,  and  no  water-like  juice  surrounds  it 
on  the  saucer,  it  is  safe  to  infer  that  it  is  done." 


RHUBARB  JAM.  1 29 

Rhubarb  Jam.    No.  1. 

"To  seven  pounds  of  rhubarb  add  four  sweet 
oranges  and  five  pounds  of  sugar.  Peel  and  cut  up 
the  rhubarb.  Put  in  the  thin  peel  of  the  oranges  and 
the  pulp,  after  taking  out  the  seeds  and  all  the  whites. 
Boil  all  together  for  an  hour  and  a  half." 

Rhubarb  Jam.     No.  2. 

"It  is  best  made  in  June,  when  the  rhubarb  is  no 
longer  young.  Take  ten  pounds  of  large-sized  rhu- 
barb, and  cut  it  up ;  add  to  it  one  pound  of  candied 
peel  (viz.,  citron,  lemon,  and  orange)  shred,  and 
also  the  rind  of  two  large  fresh  lemons  chopped  fine, 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  weight  of  fruit,  and 
boil  like  other  preserve." 

Crab-Apple  Jam. 

Pare  the  crab-apples  when  quite  ripe.  Put  them 
into  a  stone  jar,  cover  it  well,  and  put  it  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  prepare 
the  sirup  with  two  pounds  of  sugar  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  for  every  pound  of  the  apples.  Clarify  the 
sirup.  Then  put  the  apples  into  it,  and  boil  the 
whole  to  a  jam.  —  Peterson's  Magazine.     {By per.) 

Pine-apple  Marmalade. 

To  every  pound  of  grated  pine-apple  allow  a  pound 
of  double-refined  loaf-sugar.  Boil  until  thick  ;  then 
pack  in  tumblers,  and  paste  over  them  papers  wet  with 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Keep  them  in  a  dry  cool 
place  until  wanted.  —  Godey  's  Lady 's  Book.    (By  per) 


1 30  APPLE  JELL  Y. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Cut  off  all  spots  and  decayed  places  on  the  apples  ; 
quarter  them,  but  do  not  pare  or  core  them ;  put  in 
the  peel  of  as  many  lemons  as  you  like,  about  two 
to  six  or  eight  dozen  of  the  apples ;  fill  the  preserv- 
ing-pan, and  cover  the  fruit  with  spring-water  ;  boil 
them  till  they  are  in  pulp,  then  pour  them  into  a 
jelly-bag;  let  them  strain  all  night,  do  not  squeeze 
them.  To  every  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of 
white  sugar;  put  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons  you  had 
before  pared,  but  strain  it  through  muslin  ;  you  may 
also  put  in  about  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 
Let  it  boil  for  at  least  twenty  minutes ;  it  will 
look  redder  than  at  first  ;  skim  it  well  all  the  time. 
Put  it  either  in  shapes  or  pots,  and  cover  it  the  next 
day.  It  ought  to  be  quite  stiff  and  very  clear.  — 
Godey's  Lady's  Book.     (By per.  Pub.) 

Cider  Apple  Jelly. 

"  Cut  good,  ripe  apples  in  quarters,  put  them  in  a 
kettle,  and  cover  them  with  szvcet  cider  just  from 
the  press.  (It  should,  if  possible,  be  used  the  day  it 
is  made,  or,  at  any  rate,  before  it  has  worked  at 
all.)  Boil  until  well  clone,  and  drain  through  a  sieve. 
Do  not  press  it  through.  Measure  the  liquor,  and 
to  each  pint  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  from 
twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour." 

Quince  and  Apple  Jelly. 

"Cut  small,  and  core,  an  equal  weight  of  tart 
apples  and  quinces  ;  put  the  quinces  in  a  preserving- 


CURRANT  JELL  Y.  1 3 1 

kettle,  with  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  till  soft ; 
acid  the  apples,  still  keeping  water  to  cover  them, 
and  boil  till  the  whole  is  nearly  a  pulp ;  put  the 
whole  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  strain  without  pressing. 
To  each  quart  of  juice  allow  two  pounds  of  lump- 
sugar.     Boil  together  half  an  hour." 

Currant  Jelly. 

Pick  fine  red  but  long-ripe  currants  from  the 
stems  ;  bruise  them,  and  strain  the  juice  from  a 
quart  at  a  time  through  a  thin  muslin  ;  wring  it 
gently,  to  get  all  the  liquid  ;  put  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  all  dis- 
solved ;  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  let  it  become  hot, 
and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  try  it  by  taking 
a  spoonful  into  a  saucer ;  when  cold,  if  it  is  not 
quite  firm  enough,  boil  it  for  a  few  minutes  longer. 
—  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     {By per.) 

Elderberry  Jelly. 

Heat  the  berries,  and  press  out  the  juice,  and  to 
every  pint  of  it  add  a  half-pint  of  sugar.  Boil  until 
it  becomes  a  thick  sirup.  The  elderberries  alone 
will  not  make  a  jelly  firm  enough  to  turn  out  of 
tumblers  or  bowls,  but  if  the  juice  of  grapes  is  added 
to  it, — about  one-third  of  a  pint  to  a  pint  of  elder- 
berries, —  it  then  becomes  very  firm  and  solid.  — 
Miss  Lizzie  Strolim. 

Grape  Jelly. 

"  Strip  from  their  stalks  some  fine  ripe  black- 
cluster  grapes,  and  stir  them  with  a  wooden   spoon 


1 3  2  RED-HA  W  JELL  Y. 

over  a  gentle  fire  until  all  have  burst,  and  the  juice 
flows  freely  from  them  ;  strain  it  off  without  press- 
ure, and  pass  it  through  a  jelly-bag,  or  through  a 
twice-folded  muslin  ;  weigh,  and  then  boil  it  rapidly 
for  twenty  minutes ;  draw  it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  it 
till  dissolved  fourteen  ounces  of  good  sugar,  roughly 
powdered,  to  each  pound  of  juice,  and  boil  the 
jelly  quickly  for  fifteen  minutes  longer,  keeping  it 
constantly  stirred,  and  perfectly  well  skimmed.  It 
will  be  perfectly  clear,  and  of  a  beautiful  pale 
rose-color." 

Red-Haw  Jelly. 

Wash  the  haws  well,  and  put  on  in  a  kettle  with 
water  sufficient  to  almost  cover  them  (not  too  much 
water).  Boil  until  they  are  soft.  When  cool  enough, 
express  the  juice  thoroughly  through  a  thin  muslin 
cloth.  To  three  pints  of  juice  add  two  pints  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  bubbles.  Less 
boiling  will  answer  if  it  is  not  desired  to  mould  into 
"shapes  "  or  "designs."  It  is  a  firm  and  handsome 
jelly  for  moulds.  The  taste  is  delicious,  resembling 
guava  jelly. — Lizzie  Strohm. 

Strawberry  Jelly. 

The  fruit,  in  the  first  place,  should  be  as  fresh 
from  the  vines  as  is  possible  to  obtain  it,  and  free 
from  all  sand  or  dirt.  After  picking  the  hulls  from 
them,  put  the  berries  into  an  enamelled  preserving- 
pan,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  draw  out 
the  juice.  As  soon  as  this  begins  to  flow  freely, 
place  the  pan  over  a  slow  fire,  and  allow  the  berries 
to   simmer  very  gently  until    they  begin  to  soften, 


STRA  WBERR  Y  JELL  Y.  1 3  3 

being  careful  to  remove  it  before  the  juice  com- 
mences to  thicken.  Then  pour  them  upon  a  clean, 
dry  sieve,  and  when  the  juice  has  drained  thoroughly 
through,  strain  it  through  two  or  three  thicknesses 
of  muslin,  and,  after  weighing  it,  put  it  again  into 
the  preserving-pan.  Let  it  boil  briskly  for  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  frequently,  then  remove  it  from  the 
fire,  and  add  the  sugar,  allowing  fourteen  ounces  to 
each  pound  of  the  juice.  (Loaf-sugar  broken  in  small 
lumps  is  the  best  for  the  purpose,  and  should  be 
added  a  little  at  a  time.)  As  soon  as  the  sugar 
becomes  dissolved,  place  the  pan  again  on  the  fire, 
and  let  the  jelly  boil  until  done.  To  test  this,  take 
a  little  out,  and  put  it  on  a  plate  or  saucer ;  if  it 
stiffens,  it  is  done  enough.  Then  pour  it  into  jars, 
cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  dry  place  till  wanted 
for  use.  —  The  Caterer.     {By  per.) 


CHAPTER    XII. 


BREAD,    RUSK,    BUNS,    ROLLS,   AND 
BISCUIT. 


BREAD,  RUSK,  BUNS,  ROLLS,  AND  BISCUIT. 

AUNT  CINDY'S  DINNER. 

"Well,  Cindy,"  said  the  Rev.  Mr.  Burgiss,  "you  air  goin'  to  have 
a  chance  to-morrow  to  distinguish  you'self." 

Cindy  was  a  tall  and  fleshy  woman,  weighing  three  hundred  and 
seventeen  pounds.  She  was  sitting  on  the  block  which  was  seat  or 
meat-slab,  as  the  occasion  demanded.  She  rose  from  this  block  with 
a  heaving,  labored  motion,  which  called  to  mind  a  steamboat  getting 
under  way.  "  I's  tolerbul  distinguished  a'ready,"  she  replied.  Per- 
haps the  speaker  found  a  difficulty  in  raising  and  lowering  her  astonish- 
ing lower  jaw  and  double  chin.  Her  words  had  a  queer,  smothered 
sound,  as  though  coming  through  hot  mush.  "  What's  gwyne  on 
ter-morrer  ? "  she  asked. 

"  Why,  we  air  goin'  to  have  fou'  persidin'  elduz  yere  to  dinner 
to-morrow,  —  yes,  fou'  presidin' elduz." 

"  Good  gracious !  "  exclaimed  Aunt  Cindy,  almost  overwhelmed. 
u  Mussy  on  us  !  fou'  puzzidin'  elduz  !  Reckons  I  hab  ter  stir  my  stumps 
tolerbul  lively  'bout  dat  dar  dinner ; "  and  her  eyes,  hid  away  in  rolls 
of  fat,  like  pin-heads  in  a  cushion,  began  to  twinkle  in  anticipation  of 
a  culinary  triumph.  "  But,"  she  continued,  clouding  again,  "'  we-all 
ain't  got  no  little  pig.  Can't  git  no  dinner  fit  for  shucks  widouten  a 
pig  roas'  whole,  wid  a  red  apple  in  its  mouf.  Mus'  hab  a  pig  some- 
hows,  to  be  sartin." 

"  Oh,  we  can  get  a  pig,"  said  Mr.  Burgiss  assuredly.  "  Jus'  sen' 
Tony  over  to  Brother  Phillpotts's  early  in  the  mawnin'  to  borrer  one. 
Tell  him  to  tell  Sister  Phillpotts  that  I'll  return  it  the  fus'  chance. 
An'  now,  Cindy,  my  girl,  jus'  do  you'  bes'  on  that  dinner." 

"  'Deed,  I'll  do  my  very  bes'.  Puffidin'  dinner  for  fou'  puzzidin' 
elduz  is  a  heap  er  'spons'bil'ty,  but  I  reckons  yer'll  fin'  ole  Cindy  kin 
tote  it.     Jes'  don't  worrit  you'se'f."  .  .  . 

"Dat  light-bread  ought  to  be  sot  ter  raisin',"  Aunt  Cindy  solilo- 
quized when  left  alone.  She  spread  out  a  fat  hand  on  each  knee,  and 
helped  herself  up  from  the  meat-block.  Then  she  mounted  the  bench 
that  served  as  her  observatory,  and  began  searching  the  log  sleeper, 
rummaging  among  the  various  paper  parcels.  "  Wonder  what's  gone 
wid  defn  twin brudders,"  she  said  (Aunt  Cindy  was  looking  for  a  small 
package  of  Twin  Brothers  yeast  cakes,  which  some  Yankee  had  intro- 
duced in  the  neighborhood).  "Dat  dar  Tony's  gone  an'  toted  off  dem 
dar  twin  brudders,  I'll  be  boun'. — To-nee!  To-nee!"  she  called,  at 
the  height  of  her  muffled  voice.  "  I  see  yer  sneakin'  'hin'  dat  dar 
chicken-coop.  Yere'd  belter  come  yere,  'fo'  I  comes  dar  an'  fotches 
yer  wid  a  peach-tree  limb.     Hurry  'long  outen  dat  dar  snail's  pace." 

Tony  appeared,  looking  like  a  tattered  scarecrow  with  a  live  head. 

137 


138 


AUNT  CINDY'S  DINNER. 


"  Whar's  dem  dar  twin  brudders  ?  I  wants  ter  put  one  uv  um  ter 
soak.  What  yer  gone  an'  done  wid  dem  dar  twin  brudders  ? "  persisted 
Aunt  Cindy. 

"  I  hain't  done  nuffin  't  all  wid  dem  dar  twin  brudders,  —  nebber 
tetched  um,"  Tony  declared,  half  frightened,  half  sullen. 

"  Hush  you'  mouf,  yer  story-teller !  I'll  be  boun'  yer's  gone  an' 
feeded  all  dem  twin  brudders  to  de  chickens.  Yer's  too  lazy  ter  mix 
a  little  cawn-meal  fer  um." 

"  Nebber  feeded  dem  dar  twin  brudders  to  de  chickens,  no  more'n 
nuffin,"  Tony  insisted. 

"  How  yer  reckons  I'se  gwine  ter  git  dinner  fer  dem  fou'  puzzidin" 
elduz  ef  I  hain't  got  no  twin  brudders  to  make  de  light-bread? " 

"  I  dun  know." 

"  Ob  cou'se  yer  dun  know  ;  yer  dun  know  nuffin.  Come  yere  while 
I  boxes  you'  jaw.  I  boxes  yer  kase  I  lubbed  you'  gran'mudder.  Me 
an'  her  uster  play  togedder  when  we-all  wus  bofe  gals  togedder." 

Aunt  Cindy  was  heaving  and  balancing  herself,  preparatory  to  a 
descent  from  the  bench  on  which  she  was  mounted.  Down  she 
stepped  at  length,  her  broad  bare  foot  meeting  the  dirt  floor  with  a 
heavy  thud,  —  or  slap,  rather. 

"  Come  'long  up  yere,"  continued  Aunt  Cindy.  Tony  was  moving 
towards  her  with  a  reluctant,  bewildered  air,  his  dead  grandmother 
and  the  twin  brothers  all  in  a  jumble  in  his  brain,  when  Aunt  Cindy 
suddenly  exclaimed,  "  Dar's  dem  twin  brudders  now,  on  dat  dar  jam ! " 
Tony  smiled  from  ear  to  ear,  in  his  satisfaction  at  having  escaped  the 
impending  boxing.  "Hush  you' grinnin' dar,  yer  imperance,  an'  go 
'long  an'  fotch  me  some  hick'ry-bo'k  to  cook  dat  dinner.  Wasn't  yer 
'ware  I's  got  ter  git  dinner  fer  fou'  puzzidin'  elduz?  " 

Tony  gave  a  long  whistle  of  astonishment,  and  went  off  toward 
the  woods. 

While  the  yeast-cake  was  soaking,  Aunt  Cindy  set  to  work  collect- 
ing materials  for  a  cake ;  a  pound-cake  with  icing,  she  had  decided 
upon.  Although  her  movements  were  slow  and  labored,  there  were 
strength  and  force  in  them,  so  that  she  accomplished  a  surprising 
amount  of  work.  She  didn't  lose  much  time  looking  for  spoons  and 
forks.  She  stirred  things  with  her  finger,  and  with  it  she  tested  her 
gravies  and  sauces  and  custards.  It  needed  but  a  few  strokes  of  her 
warm,  strong  hand,  to  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  :  a  few  turns  more,  and 
the  sugar  was  thoroughly  incorporated  with  this.  Then  with  some 
twigs  hi  crape-myrtle,  in  lieu  of  an  egg-beater,  the  yolk  of  the  eggs  was 
soon  foaming,  and  the  white  standing  alone.-  -Lastly,  she  bethought 
her  of  the  cinnamon  to  make  it  "tasty,"  she  said.  Panting  and  blow- 
ing, she  again  ascended  her  observatory,  and~  began  snuffing,  tasting, 
and  peering  at  the  various  paper  parcels  on  the  log  sleeper.  "  Whar 
kin  dat  cin'mon-bok  be  at  ?  "  she  said.  "  I  hain't  seed  it  sence  I  tuk  it 
to  meetin'  to  scent  my  han'kercher.  I'll  be  bound  dat  dar  Tony's  done 
gone  an'  tuck  an'  et  dat  dar  cin'mon-bok,  ha'r  an'  hide.  Maybe  I  put 
it  in  de  big  gou'd." 

She  waddled  down  from  the  bench  and  across  the  shed  to  a  gourd 
as  large  as  a  giant  pumpkin,  and  with  much  the  shape  of  one.  She 
turned  it  bottom  up  on  the  dirt  floor,  and  out  poured  an  incredible  assort- 
ment of  things  :  a  fork,  three  partridge-eggs,  a  head-kerchief,  a  pair  of 


AUNT  CINDY'S  DINNER.  I^Q 

slippers,  a  dish-towel,  two  peaches,  a  purple  belt-ribbon,  a  phial  of  hair- 
oil,  a  hymn-book,  a  lump  of  loaf-sugar,  a  stick  of  sassafras-root,  a  paper 
of  saleratus,  and  another  of  snuff.  "  'Tain't  yere."  She  looked  the 
jambs  over,  and  then,  with  a  majestic  waddle,  she  crossed  the  yard  to 
the  house. 

"  Miss  Rithy,"  she  said,  when  she  found  herself  in  Mrs.  Burgiss's 
presence,  "I  ain't  gwine  ter  take  de  'spons'bil'ty  uv  no  poun'-cake 
widouten  cin'mon-bok  to  puffume  it,  an'  I  hain't  got  no  cin'mon-bok 
on  my  premsis." 

"  Sen'  over  to  Brother  Phillpotts's  an'  borrer  a  stick,"  said  the  lady 
appealed  to,  returning  to  her  perforated  cardboard,  on  which  she  was 
working  in  rainbow  worsteds  a  church  with  a  man  beside  it.  The 
man  was  taller  than  the  steeple.  .  .  . 

In  process  of  time,  Tony  appeared  with  three  small  pieces  of  bark, 
and  was,  properly  or  improperly,  belabored  by  Aunt  Cindy's  tongue, 
she  declaring  that  she  could  "  eat  all  dat  dar  bok,"  and  demanding  to 
be  told  how  she  was  "  gwine  ter  cook  dinner  fer  fou'  puzzidin'  elduz 
wid  dat  thimbulful  of  bok  ?  An'  my  cakes  a-sottin'  yere  waitin'  all 
dis  while,  an'  all  dat  'nifikent  white  froff  gittin'  limber,  an'  all  de  lather 
done  gone  outen  dat  dar  yaller !  An'  I  beat  dat  dar  egg  tell  my  arm 
ache  to  de  morrer-bone.  Yer  go  'long  an'  hurry  an'  cotch  ole  Jack, 
an'  go  to  Mis'  Phillpotts's  ter  borrer  somethin'." 

Tony  hurried  off,  glad  to  get  away  from  Aunt  Cindy  and  her  uncer- 
tain moods.  It  was  over  an  hour,  however,  before  he  got  started  for 
Mrs.  Philpotts's ;  for  first  he  had  to  indulge  himself  in  repeated  climb- 
ings  and  slidings  on  the  fodder-stacks ;  then  in  divers  tumblings  and 
leapings  in  the  straw-pen ;  then  he  "  skinned  the  cat "  a  few  dozen 
times ;  then  he  had  a  thrilling  ride  round  and  round  the  barnyard, 
swinging  on  old  Jack's  tail ;  then  he  made  a  raid  on  some  blackberry- 
bushes  in  the  fence-corner,  where  he  ate  berries  as  long  and  thick 
as  his  thumb  for  ten  minutes.  Then  he  put  a  bridle  on  the  old  gray 
mule,  mounted  its  bare  back,  and  entered  upon  a  course  of  pullings, 
tuggings,  and  kickings,  to  the  end  of  making  the  said  mule  go  forward 
to  Mrs.  Phillpotts's,  instead  of  backward  to  its  stall,  as  it  seemed  de- 
termined to  do.  As  all  the  boy's  thoughts  and  energies  were  thus 
engaged,  it  never  occurred  to  him  that  he  didn't  know  what  he  was 
going  for,  until  he  stood  in  Mrs.  Phillpotts's  presence,  feeling  and 
looking  very  foolish.  Nothing  remained  to  be  done  but  to  remount  his 
gallant  steed,  return  to  Aunt  Cindy,  and  ascertain  the  nature  of  the 
something  he  was  to  borrow  from  Mrs.  Phil! potts.  Oh,  how  he  shrunk 
from  the  forthcoming  interview  with  Aunt  Cindy !  Her  dreaded  hands 
doubled  in  size  to  his  frightened  fancy,  and  his  ears  seemed  to  tingle 
with  the  inevitable  boxing  which  Aunt  Cindy  would  be  certain  to  feel 
it  her  duty  to  administer,  because  she  loved  his  grandmother. 

"  Wish  she  nebber  lubbed  my  gran'mammy  —  wish  she  hate  my 
gran'mammy,"  Tony  whispered  to  his  beating  heart,  as  on  went  old 
Jack  at  a  spanking,  bouncing  trot,  that  threatened  to  unhorse  the 
rider.  It  seemed  to  Tony  that  no  other  mule  ever  trotted  so  relent- 
lessly. He  clung  desperately  to  the  bridle  and  the  roached  mane, 
and  was  trotted  on  by  the  merciless  brute  past  the  house,  through  the 
barnyard,  and  into  the  stable,  Tony  throwing  himself  almost  under  the 
belly  to  save  himself  from  being  rubbed  off  in  the  low  doorway. 


140  YEAST. 

"Whyn't  yer  spen' de  night  at  Mis'  Phillpotts's?"  Cindy  asked, 
when  he  appeared  in  her  presence,  his  eyes  distended.and  rolling  in 
frightened  anticipation.  "Dat  white's  done  gone  back  twict,  waitin' 
on  you'  lazy  bones.  Nobody  but  a  bawn  cook  could  fotch  a  poun'- 
cake  fit  fer  fou'  puzzidin'  elduz  outen  sich  trib'lations.  Don't  yer 
know  I's  got  ter  git  dinner  fer  fou'  puzzidin'  elduz  ?  But,  law !  yer 
wouldn't  kere  ef  dey  wus  fou'  bishops.  What  do  yer  kere  'bout  rerli- 
gion  ?  Yer's  so  wicked !  Gim  me  that  cin'mon-bok,  and  don't  stan' 
dar  shilly-shally,  like  a  gobbler  on  hot  tin." 

Then  came  Tony's  acknowledgment  that  he  had  gone  all  the  way 
to  Mrs.  Phillpotts's  without  once  thinking  that  he  did  not  know  what 
he  was  going  for.  You  should  have  seen  how  Aunt  Cindy  received 
this,  when  the  idea  had  fairly  taken  possession  of  her  mind.  It  went 
to  her  funny  spot.  Planting  her  hands,  outspread,  on  her  sides,  as  if 
to  fortify  herself  against  shaking  to  pieces,  she  began  laughing  almost 
without  a  sound,  as  though  she  was  too  well  cushioned  to  make  any 
noise.  She  quivered  all  over  like  a  great  mass  of  jelly,  swaying  back 
and  forth,  her  head  falling  on  her  chest,  on  this  shoulder  and  on  that, 
till  she  fell  with  a  great  flop  on  the  meat-block,  where  she  continued 
to  sway  and  roll  and  quiver.  Tony's  intense  appreciation  of  the  turned 
tide,  expressed  in  broad  grins,  in  titters,  in  giggles,  in  shuffles,  in  bal- 
ancings, in  hand-rubbings,  was  about  as  funny  as  Aunt  Cindy's  charac- 
teristic laughing.  Before  this  laughing  was  ended,  he  had  made  good 
his  escape,  and  in  process  of  events  was  repeating  his  tuggings  and 
pullings  at  old  Jack's  bridle.  It  was  dark  .before  he  returned  from 
his  errand;  for  Mrs.  Phillpotts  not  having  any  cinnamon,  had  sent  a 
runner  to  Mrs.  McDonald  for  the  article.  Mrs.  McDonald,  in  turn, 
had  sent  to  Mrs.  Doubleday,  and  Mrs.  Doubleday  to  the  cross-roads 
store.  Aunt  Cindy  never  went  to  bed  that  night  —  never  went  to  her 
cabin  :  she  sat  up  with  her  cake  and  light-bread.  —  Aunt  Cindy's 
Dinner:  Sarah  Winter  Kellogg.  From  Lippincotfs  Magazine.  {By 
per.) 


Yeast. 

Ingredients :  One  teacupful  of  lightly  broken  hops, 
or,  if  the  Shaker  packages  are  used,  half  a  teacupful ; 
one  pint  of  sifted  flour ;  one  teacupful  of  granulated 
sugar  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  four  large  or  six 
medium-sized  potatoes ;  two  quarts  boiling  water. 
Boil  the  potatoes  ;  drain  off  the  water  when  done, 
and  let  them  dry  off  a  few  minutes,  precisely  as  for 
table.  At  the  same  time,  having  tied  the  hops  in  a 
cloth,  boil  them  half  an  hour  in  the  two  quarts  of 
water,  renewing  it  if  it  boils  away.     Mix  the  flour, 


YEAST.  141 

sugar,  and  salt  well  together  in  a  large  mixing-bowl, 
and  pour  on  the  boiling  hop-water  slowly,  stirring 
constantly.  Now  add  enough  of  this  to  the  mashed 
potato  to  thin  it  till  it  can  be  poured,  and  mix  it  all 
together,  straining  it  through  a  sieve  to  avoid  any 
possible  lumps.  Add  to  this,  when  cool,  either  a 
cupful  of  yeast  left  from  the  last,  or  of  baker's  yeast, 
or  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water.  Let  it  stand  two  hours  or  so  till  partly 
light,  then  stir  it  down  two  or  three  times  in  the 
course  of  five  or  six  hours,  as  this  makes  it  stronger. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  it  will  be  light.  Keep  in  a 
carefully  corked  stone  jug,  or  in  glass  cans,  the  last 
being  the  best ;  and  in  all  cases  be  particular  to 
have  whatever  holds  it  perfectly  sweet  and  well 
scalded.  Be  as  careful  with  stopper  or  cover  as  with 
the  vessel  itself. 

For  dry  yeast,  stir  in  corn-meal  till  a  dough  is 
made,  form  it  in  small,  thin  cakes,  and  dry  them 
carefully  in  the  sun.  For  hot  weather  this  is  a  con- 
venient form,  as  it  does  not  sour.  Crumb  and  soak 
in  warm  water  half  an  hour  before  using. 

Potato  yeast  is  made  by  omitting  hops  and  flour, 
but  mashing  the  potatoes  fine  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  adding  the  old  yeast  when  cool,  as  before. 
The  number  of  potatoes  can  be  doubled,  or  left  the 
same.  It  is  very  nice,  but  must  be  made  fresh  every 
week ;  while  the  other,  kept  in  a  cool  place,  will  be 
good  a  month.  —  Mrs.  Helen  Campbell.  From  Good 
Housekeeping.     {By  per.  Pubs.) 


142  BREAD. 

Bread. 

For  four  medium-sized  loaves  of  bread  allow  as 
follows  :  Four  quarts  of  flour  ;  one  large  cup  of  yeast 
(half  a  pint) ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar, 
and  one  of  butter  or  lard  ;  one  pint  of  milk  mixed 
with  one  of  warm  water,  or  one  quart  of  water  alone, 
for  the  "wetting."  Sift  the  flour  into  a  large  pan  or 
bowl.  Put  the  sugar,  salt,  and  shortening,  in  the 
bottom  of  the  bread-pan  or  bowl,  and  pour  on  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  boiling  water,  enough  to  dissolve 
all ;  add  the  quart  of  wetting  and  the  yeast.  ,  Now 
stir  in,  slowly,  two  quarts  of  the  flour,  beating  well ; 
cover  with  a  thick  cloth,  and  set  in  a  temperature 
of  about  seventy-five  degrees  to  rise  until  morning. 
Bread  mixed  at  nine  in  the  evening  will  be  ready  to 
mould  into  loaves  or  rolls  by  six  the  next  morning. 
In  summer  it  would  be  necessary  to  find  a  cool 
place  ;  in  winter,  a  warm  one  ;  the  chief  point  being 
to  keep  the  temperature  even.  If  mixed  early  in  the 
morning,  it  is  ready  to  mould  and  bake  in  the  after- 
noon, from  seven  to  eight  hours  being  all  that  it 
should  stand.  This  first  mixture  is  called  a  sponge; 
and  if  only  a  single  loaf  of  Graham  or  rye  bread,  is 
wanted,  one  quart  of  it  can  be  measured  and  thick- 
ened with  either  flour  as  in  the  rules  given  hereafter. 
To  finish  as  wheat  bread,  stir  in  flour  from  the  two 
quarts  remaining  to  make  a  dough.  Flour  the 
moulding-board  very  thickly,  and  turn  out.  Now 
begin  kneading,  flouring  the  hands,  but  after  the 
dough  is  gathered  in  a  smooth  lump,  using  as  little 
flour  as  may  be  ;  knead  with  the  palm  of  the  hand 
as  much  as  possible.     The  dough  quickly  becomes  a 


BREAD.  143 

flat  cake.  Fold  it  over,  and  keep  on  kneading,  not 
less  than  twenty  minutes,  half  an  hour  being  better. 
Make  into  loaves ;  put  into  the  pans  ;  set  them  in  a 
warm  place,  and  let  them  rise  from  thirty  to  forty- 
five  minutes,  or  until  they  have  become  nearly  double 
in  size.  Bake  in  an  oven  hot  enough  to  brown  a 
teaspoonfu'l  of  flour  in  five  minutes,  spreading  the 
flour  on  a  bit  of  broken  plate  that  it  may  have  an 
even  heat.  The  pan  is  an  important  point,  the  best 
being  made  of  block-tin  or  Russia  iron.  A  brick 
loaf  bakes  most  easily,  and  it  is  quite  worth  while  to 
have  a  set  of  bread-pans  made  to  order,  ten  inches 
long  by  four  wide  and  four  deep.  Loaves  of  this 
size  will  bake  in  from  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 
Then  take  them  from  the  pans,  wrap  them  in  thick 
cloths  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  stand  them  tilted 
up  against  the  pans  till  cold.  Never  lay  hot  bread 
on  a  pine  table,  as  it  will  sweat,  and  absorb  the  pitchy 
odor  and  taste ;  but  tilt  so  that  the  air  will  pass 
around  it  freely.  Keep  well  covered  in  a  tin  box  or 
large  stone  pot,  which  should  be  wiped  out  every 
day  or  two,  and  scalded  and  dried  thoroughly  in  the 
sun  once  a  week.  Pans  for  wheat  bread  should  be 
greased  very  lightly  ;  for  Graham  or  rye,  much  more, 
as  the  dough  sticks  and  clings.  Instead  of  mixing 
a  sponge,  all  the  flour  may  be  moulded  in  and  kneaded 
at  once,  and  the  dough  set  to  rise  in  the  same  way ; 
when  light,  turn  out.  Use  as  little  flour  as  possible, 
and  knead  fifteen  minutes  ;  less  time  being  required, 
as  part  of  the  kneading  has  already  been  done.  — 
Mrs.  Helen  Campbell.  From  Good  Housekeeping. 
(By  per.  Pubs) 


144  TO    TEST   THE    OVEN. 

To  Test  the  Oven. 

Throw  on  the  floor  of  the  oven  a  tablespoonful  of 
new  flour ;  if  it  takes  fire,  or  assumes  a  dark-brown 
color,  the  temperature  is  too  high,  and  the  oven  must 
be  allowed  to  cool.  If  the  flour  remains  white  after 
the  lapse  of  a  few  seconds,  the  temperature  is  too 
low.  When  the  oven  is  of  the  proper  temperature, 
the  flour  will  turn  a  brownish  yellow,  and  look 
slightly  scorched. — Breakfast  Dainties:  Thomas 
J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Vienna  Bread. 

"  Two  pounds  sifted  flour  banked  around  pan,  one- 
half  pint  milk,  one-half  pint  water ;  mix  a  thin 
batter ;  quickly  add  one-half  pint  milk,  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  one-half  ounce  salt  and  seven- 
eighths  ounce  compressed  yeast ;  leave  remainder  of 
flour  against  side  of  pan ;  cover  and  keep  free  from 
air  forty-five  minutes  ;  then  mix  in  rest  of  the  flour 
until  dough  leaves  side  and  bottom  of  pan.  Let 
stand  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  Divide  into  one- 
pound  pieces.  Subdivide  into  twelve  pieces.  Fold 
corner  of  each  piece  to  centre,  turn  over  to  rise  for 
thirty  minutes.  Put  in  hot  oven,  bake  twenty  min- 
utes." 

French  Twist  Bread. 

Take  one  quart  of  light  dough  raised  with  home- 
made yeast ;  mix  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  one  egg ;  add  flour, 
and  knead  well.  Let  it  rise  until  light,  then  knead 
very  gently ;  roll  the  dough  in  thin  strips,  measuring 
an  inch  in  diameter ;  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and 


AERATED  HOME-MADE  BREAD.  1 45 

braid  loosely ;  let  it  stand  a  few  moments,  and  bake 

quickly   without     burning.  —  Peterson 's     Magazine. 

{By  per}) 

Aerated  Home-made  Bread. 

Mix  flour  and  water  together  to  the  consistency  of 
a  thick  batter ;  then  beat  it  until  fine  bubbles  of  air 
thoroughly  permeate  it ;  for  small  biscuit,  pour  it 
into  patty-pans,  and  bake  in  a  good  brisk  oven ;  for 
bread  in  loaves,  more  flour  is  thoroughly  kneaded  in 
with  the  hands,  until  the  dough  is  full  of  air-bubbles, 
and  then  baked  at  once,  without  being  allowed  to 
stand.  —  Cooking  Manual  :  Juliet  Corson.  Dodd, 
Mead,  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Gems. 

These  are  the  simplest  form  of  bread,  and  if  prop- 
erly made  are  certain  to  be  light  and  sweet.  A  hot 
oven  and  hot  pans  are  prime  essentials,  and  there 
must  be  no  delay  between  making  and  baking.  The 
coldest  water,  ice-water  preferred,  should  be  used. 
Use  either  whole-wheat  flour  or  Graham,  three  parts 
of  flour  to  one  of  water  being  the  right  proportion. 
For  a  dozen  gems  allow  one  large  cup  —  a  half-pint 
—  of  ice-water,  one  even  -teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
three  cups  of  flour.  Stir  in  the  flour  slowly,  beating 
hard  and  steadily,  not  less  than  ten  minutes.  The 
pans  should  have  been  set  on  top  of  the  stove,  and 
oiled  or  buttered.  Fill  them  two-thirds  full,  and 
bake  about  half  an  hour.  If  properly  made,  they 
are  very  light,  and  have  the  full  flavor  of  the  wheat. 
Hygienic  cook-books  give  the  same  rule  as  practic- 
able for  bread,  but   none  tested  by  the  writer  has 


146  SALT-RISrNG  BREAD. 

ever  been  really  eatable.  Gems  can  be  freshened  by 
dipping  in  cold  water  and  heating  quickly,  but  it  is 
best  to  make  no  more  than  will  be  eaten  at  once. 
Rye  can  be  used,  but  with  less  certainty  of  a  good 
result.  —  Mrs.  Helen  Campbell.  From  Good  House- 
keeping.    {By  per  Pubs) 

Salt-Rising  Bread. 

Put  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  half  a  teacupful 
of  flour ;  pour  on  boiling  water ;  work  it  well  very 
stiff ;  put  this  where  it  will  keep  warm  all  night ; 
next  morning  take  a  pint  of  milk,  warm  water,  and 
as  much  salt  as  before  ;  mix  in  flour  till  you  make  a 
good  muffin-batter ;  then  add  the  scalded  yeast  to 
the  batter,  and  set  it  in  warm  water  till  it  rises  ;  then 
add  flour  to  form  a  stiff  dough,  and  bake.  This  is 
the  favorite  bread  all  through  the  Valley  of  Virginia 
and  Maryland.  Some  dyspeptics  think  it  much 
more  digestible  than  bread  made  up  with  other 
kinds  of  yeast.  —  Virginia  Cookery-Book  :  Mrs, 
Mary  Stuart  Smith.  (By  per.  Harper  &  Brothers, 
Pubs) 

We  found  Mr.  Agnew  equallie  busie  with  his  Apples,  mounted  ha^f 
way  up  one  of  the  Trees,  and  throwing  Cherry  Pippins  down  into 
Rose's  Apron,  and  now  and  then  making  as  though  he  would  pelt  her: 
onlie  she  dared  him,  and  woulde  not  be  frightened.  Her  Donkey, 
chewing  Apples  in  the  Corner,  with  the  Cider  running  out  of  his 
Mouth,  presented  a  ludicrous  Image  of  Enjoyment,  and  'twas  evidently 
enhanct  by  Giles'  brushing  his  rough  Coat  with  a  Birch  Besom,  instead 
of  minding  his  owne  businesse  of  sweeping  the  Walk.  The  Sun, 
shining  with  mellow  Light  on  the  mown  Grass  and  fresh  dipt  Horn- 
beam Hedges,  made  even  the  commonest  Objects  distinct  and  cheer- 
fulle  ;  and  the  Air  was  soe  eleare,  we  coulde  hear  the  Village  Children 
afar  off  at  theire  Play. 

Rose  had  abundance  of  delicious  new  Honey  in  the  Comb,  and 
Bread  hot  from  the  oven,  for  our  earlie  Supper.  —  Mary  Powell: 
Mrs.  Manning. 


RUSK.  147 

Honey  without  the  comb  is  the  perfume  without  the  rose,  —  it  is 
sweet  merely,  and  soon  degenerates  into  candy.  Half  the  delectable- 
ness  is  in  breaking  down  these  frail  and  exquisite  walls  yourself,  and 
tasting  the  nectar  before  it  has  lost  its  freshness  by  contact  with  the 
air.  —  Locusts  and  Wild  Honey:  John  Burroughs.  Houghton. 
Mifflin,  6*  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Rusk. 

One  cup  milk  scalded  and  cooled  ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  sugar  ;  one-half  teaspoonful  salt ;  one-quarter  cup 
yeast ;  two  cups  flour. 

Mix  in  a  sponge  at  night,  or  very  early  in  the 
morning.  When  well  risen,  add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  and  let  it  rise  again,  then 
add  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream/ 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  egg  beaten  with  butter 
and  sugar.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl  till  light.  Shape 
into  small  round  biscuit ;  put  them  close  together 
in  a  shallow  cake-pan,  that  they  may  rise  very  high. 
When  ready  to  bake,  rub  the  tops  with  sugar  dis- 
solved in  milk,  sprinkle  with  dry  sugar,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. — The  Boston  Cook-Book  : 
Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.     Roberts  Bros.,  Pubs.     {By per) 

Buns. 

"  Into  a  pound  and  a  half  of  well-dried  flour  rub 
four  ounces  of  moist  sugar ;  warm  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  milk  about  blood  warm,  but  not  hot  enough 
to  scald  the  yeast  which  you  will  use ;  make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  of  your  flour,  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
teacupful,  or  thereabout,  of  good  thick  yeast,  which 
is  not  too  bitter,  or  it  will  taste  in  the  buns  ;  pour 
on  it  your  warm  milk,  and  mix  with  it  about  one- 
third,  or  nearly  half,  of  your  flour,  leaving  the  rest 


148  SAFFRON  BUNS. 

of  the  flour  unmixed  round  the  sides  of  your  pan. 
Set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  or  an  hour.  When  it  has  risen  well,  melt  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  mix  it  with  milk ; 
let  it  be  on  the  fire  till  about  blood  warm,  and  then 
mix  it  with  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  sugar  into  your 
dough.  When  mixed,  it  should  be  rather  softer  than 
bread-dough.  Put  it  to  rise  for  about  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  then  mould  them  ;  put  them  on  buttered 
iron  plates,  and  then  into  a  warm  place  to  rise  light ; 
when  well  risen,  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven.  If  you 
wish  to  have  currants  or  caraway-seeds  in  them, 
mix  them  in  along  with  the  butter ;  if  you  wish 
them  spiced,  mix  equal  quantities  of  ground  ginger, 
allspice,  coriander,  and  caraway ;  put  as  much  as 
you  think  sufficient,  when  you  put  in  the  butter. 
When  they  are  baked  enough,  brush  them  over 
with  egg  and  water  mixed  together,  to  give  them 
a  gloss." 

Saffron  Buns. 
"  Make  the  dough  for  them  the  same  as  for  plain 
buns.  Put  a  little  of  the  best  saffron  in  a  teacup, 
and  pour  over  a  little  boiling  water  ;  let  it  stand  on 
the  top  of  the  oven,  to  extract  the  flavor ;  and  when 
you  put  in  the  butter,  mix  in  as  much  of  the  saffron- 
water  as  will  make  the  dough  of  a  bright  yellow 
color.  Bake  them  as  before  directed.  You  may  put 
in    a   few    currants,    but    saffron    buns    are    seldom 

spiced." 

Hot  Cross  Buns. 

"  Two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
a  small  quantity  of  grated  nutmeg  and  allspice  mixed 


PARKER-HOUSE   ROLLS.  1 49 

together.  Make  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  flour, 
and  into  it  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  pouring 
in  also  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk.  With  the  latter 
and  the  surrounding  flour  make  a  thin  batter ;  cover 
the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  before  the  fire  till  the  leaven 
begins  to  ferment.  Now  add  to  the  whole  half  a 
pound  of  butter  melted,  and  sufficient  milk  to  make 
all  the  flour  into  a  soft  paste.  Dust  it  over  with 
flour,  and  let  it  rise  again  for  half  an  hour.  Make 
the  dough  into  the  shape  of  buns,  notch  out  on  each 
the  form  of  the  cross,  and  lay  them  separately  in  rows 
on  buttered  tin  plates  to  rise  once  more  for  half  an 
hour;  after  which,  put  them  into  a  quick  oven,  watch- 
ing them  carefully  lest  the  color  should  be  spoiled  by 
over-baking." 

Parker-House  Rolls. 

One  teacup  home-made  yeast,  a  little  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  a  piece  of  lard  size  of  an  egg, 
one  pint  milk,  flour  sufficient  to  mix.  Put  the  milk 
on  the  stove  to  scald,  with  the  lard  in  it.  Prepare 
the  flour  with  salt,  sugar,  and  yeast.  Then  add  the 
milk,  not  too  hot.  Knead  thoroughly  when  mixed 
at  night ;  in  the  morning  but  very  slight  kneading  is 
necessary.  Then  roll  out,  and  cut  with  large  biscuit- 
cutter.  Spread  a  little  butter  on  each  roll,  and  lap 
together.  Let  them  rise  very  light,  then  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  —  The  Every-day  Cook-Book  :  Miss 
Neill.     {By  per.  Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.) 

Brown  Biscuit. 

Three  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  white 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  the  same  of  but- 


150  EGG  BISCUIT. 

ter;  one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  two  teaspoom 
fuls  of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
cups  of  milk.  Sift  brown  and  white  flour,  sugar, 
baking-powder,  salt,  into  a  bowl ;  rub  or  chop  in  the 
shortening ;  wet  up  with  the  milk  into  a  soft  dough  ; 
roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  handling  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, and  with  as  few  strokes  of  the  rolling-pin  ;  cut 
into  round  cakes,  and  bake  quickly  in  a  floured  pan. 
—  Marion  Harland.  The  Post,  WasJiington,  D.C. 
{By  per) 

Egg  Biscuit. 

Two  cups  of  warm  milk,  two  eggs,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water,  one  quart  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  mix  with  the  butter 
(melted  but  not  hot)  the  yeast,  salt,  and  three  cups 
of  flour  together  over  night,  and  set  in  a  covered 
bowl  to  rise.  Early  in  the  morning  add  the  beaten 
eggs  and  the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  set  for  a  second 
rising  of  an  hour  or  longer.  When  light  roll  into  a 
sheet  almost  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and 
lay  in  a  floured  baking-pan.  At  the  end  of  half  an 
hour  bake  in  a  good  oven.  They  are  delicious  cold 
or  hot.  —  Marion  Harland.  The  Post,  WasJiington, 
D.C.     {By  per) 

Naples  Biscuit. 

"  Beat  eight  eggs ;  add  to  them  one  pound  of 
flour;  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  lemon.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven." 


SODA   BISCUITS.  151 

Soda  Biscuits. 

One  quart  of  flour,  a  pint  of  buttermilk,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk ;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  a  piece  of  lard  about  the  size  of  a 
large  egg,  rubbed  in  the  flour.  Mix  well  together, 
roll  out  about  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  biscuits. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Matilda  J.  Anderson, 

Dayton,  O. 

Drop  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  teacup  of  lard 
worked  in  the  flour;  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  make 
a  thick  batter.  Drop  in  little  pans  or  muffin-rings, 
and  bake. 

Flyaways,  or  Souffle  Biscuits. 

Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  one  quart  of  flour 
sifted,  add  a  saltspoonful  o"f  salt,  and  make  into  a 
paste  with  milk.  Knead  well,  handling  lightly,  and 
roll  out  until  they  are  as  thin  as  paper  and  the  size 
of  a  common  saucer ;  stick  here  and  there  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  look 
flaky  and  white. 

Butter,  four  ounces. 

Flour,  one  quart. 

Milk,  one-half  pint. 

Salt,  one  saltspoonful.  — Virginia  Cookery-Book  : 
Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs. 
(By  per?) 

Scotch  Scones. 

"  Sift  half  a  spoonful  of  soda  into  a  quart  of  flour, 
and  mix  in  rich  buttermilk  enough  to  make  a  dough  as 


152  FRENCH   TOAST. 

stiff  as  for  soda-biscuit.     Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick, 

and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle  in  two  large   cakes  the 

size  of  dinner-plates.     Serve  with  dishes  of  Dundee 

marmalade." 

French  Toast. 

"  Beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  with  them  a 
pint  of  milk ;  slice  some  baker's  bread,  dip  the  pieces 
into  the  egg,  then  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard,  and 
fry  brown  ;  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  cin- 
namon on  each  piece,  and  serve  hot.  If  nicely  pre- 
pared, this  is  an  excellent  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea." 


CHAPTER    XIII. 


BROWN  BREAD,  HOT  CAKES,  ETC. 


BROWN  BREAD,    HOT  CAKES,    ETC. 

Margaret  seated  herself  on  the  door-step  to  eat  her  supper,  con- 
sisting of  toasted  brown  bread  and  watered  cider,  served  in  a  curiously 
wrought  cherry  bowl  and  spoon.  The  family  were  taking  their  meal 
in  the  kitchen.  The  sun  had  gone  down.  The  whippoorwill  came 
and  sat  on  the  butternut,  and  sang  his  evening  note,  always  plaintive, 
always  welcome.  The  night-hawk  dashed  and  hissed  through  the 
woods  and  the  air,  on  slim,  quivering  wings.  A  solitary  robin  chanted 
sweetly  a  long  time  from  the  hill.  Myriads  of  insects  revolved  and 
murmured  over  her  head.  Crickets  chirped  in  the  grass  and  under 
the  deeaying  sills  of  the  house.  She  heard  the  voice  of  the  waterfall 
at  the  Outlet,  and  the  croaking  of  a  thousand  frogs  in  the  Pond. 
She  saw  the  stars  come  out,  Lyra,  the  Northern  Crown,  the  Serpent. 
She  looked  into  the  heavens,  she  opened  her  ears  to  the  dim  evening 
melodies  of  the  universe ;  yet  as  a  child.  She  was  interrupted  by  the 
sharp  voice  of  her  mother,  "  Go  to  your  roost,  Peggy  !  " 

"  Yes,  Molly  dear,"  said  her  father,  very  softly,  "  Dick  and  Robin 
are  asleep :  see  who  will  be  up  first,  you  or  the  silver  rooster ;  who 
will  open  your  eyes  first,  you  or  the  dandelion  ?  "  —  Margaret  :  Syl- 
vester Judd.     {By per.  Roberts  Brothers.) 


Brown  Bread. 

Make  ready :  one  even  cup  of  Indian  meal ;  two 
heaping  cups  of  rye  meal ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  one  of  soda,  mixed  together  with  the  sifted  meal 
in  a  large  bowl ;  one  cupful  of  molasses,  in  a  quart 
measure  or  small  bowl,  with  spoon ;  a  large  beat- 
ing spoon ;  palette-knife,  to  scrape  your  mixture 
from  the  bowl;  a  tin  bread  or  pudding  boiler,  well 
buttered. 

Stir  the  meal,  salt,  and  soda,  dry,  until  thoroughly 
mingled.  Pour  one  pint  of  hot  water  to  the  molasses, 
and  stir  it  up.     Pour  the  molasses  and  water  into  the 

155 


156  MAIZE  MUFFINS. 

middle  of  your  meal,  stirring  to  a  smooth  batter  as 
in  previous  directions  ;  beat  all  quickly  and  well  for 
several  minutes ;  it  should  be  of  a  consistence  to 
stir  easily,  and  break  in  pouring,  but  not  to  run. 
With  some  qualities  of  molasses,  you  may  need  to 
add  from  a  spoonful  or  two  to  half  a  cup  more  of 
warm  water,  to  make  it  right. 

Put  into  your  tin  boiler,  cover  tight,  and  put  this 
into  an  iron  kettle  with  boiling  water  in  it.  Cover 
the  kettle  also.  Boil  steadily  for  three  hours,  look- 
ing from  time  to  time  to  see  if  the  water  in  the 
kettle  is  boiling  away.  Keep  it  replenished,  always 
from  boiling  water.  Take  the  bread-boiler  out  at 
the  end  of  the  three  hours,  and  set  it  into  the  oven 
for  about  ten  minutes  ;  longer  if  the  oven  is  not 
quick.  This  is  to  dry  the  outside  steam  off,  and 
form  a  tender  crust.  Put  hot  upon  the  table ;  cut 
and  help  hot. — Just  How:  A  Key  to  the  Cook- 
books :  Mrs.  A.  D.  T.  Whitney.  Houghton,  Mifflin, 
&  Co.,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Maize  Muffins. 

Shredded  maize  deserves  special  mention,  as  being 
the  highest  and  most  scientific  product  of  corn  that 
has  been  introduced  for  public  consideration.  From  it 
a  most  excellent  porridge  can  be  made  in  ten  minutes. 
Griddle-cakes,  sweet  puddings,  and  especially  break- 
fast-rolls made  of  it,  are  delightful.  Most  excellent 
muffins  are  prepared  as  follows  :  Mix  together  one 
pound  of  shredded  maize,, one  pint  of  hot  milk,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  butter  ;  let  it  cool, 
and  whisk  into  it  three  beaten  eggs,  one  ounce  of 


JOHNNY-CAKE.  1 57 

sugar,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  wheat  baking-powder ; 
mix  thoroughly ;  half  fill  the  muffin-rings,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven.  —  Breakfast  Dainties  :  Thomas  J. 
Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Johnny-Cake. 

Sift  one  quart  of  Indian  meal  into  a  pan ;  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle,  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water, 
adding  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  with  a  spoon  mix 
the  meal  and  water  gradually  into  a  soft  dough ;  stir 
it  very  briskly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  till  it 
becomes  light  and  spongy ;  then  spread  the  dough 
smooth  and  evenly  on  a  straight,  flat  board  (a  piece 
of  the  head  of  a  flour  barrel  will  serve  for  this  pur- 
pose) ;  place  the  board  nearly  upright  before  an  open 
fire,  and  put  an  iron  against  the  back  to  support  it ; 
bake  it  well ;  when  done,  cut  it  in  squares  ;  send  it 
hot  to  table,  split  and  buttered.  —  Virginia  Cookery- 
Book  :  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs. 
{By  per) 

It  was  Lois  and  her  father,  —  Joe  Yare  being  feeder  that  night. 
They  were  in  one  of  the  great  furnace-rooms  in  the  cellar,  —  a  very 
comfortable  place  that  stormy  night.  Two  or  three  doors  of  the  wide 
brick  ovens  were  open,  and  the  fire  threw  a  ruddy  glow  over  the  stone 
floor,  and  shimmered  into  the  dark  recesses  of  the  shadows,  very  home- 
like after  the  rain  and  mud  without.  Lois  seemed  to  think  so,  at  any 
rate,  for  she  had  made  a  table  of  a  store-box,  put  a  white  cloth  on'  it, 
and  was  busy  getting  up  a  regular  supper  for  her  father, —  down  on 
her  knees  before  the  red  coals,  turning  something  on  an  iron  plate, 
while  some  slices  of  ham  sent  up  a  cloud  of  juicy,  hungry  smell. 

The  old  Stoker  had  just  finished  slaking  the  out-fires,  and  was 
putting  some  blue  plates  on  the  table,  gravely  straightening  them. 
He  had  grown  old,  as  Polston  said,  —  Holmes  saw,  stooped  much, 
with  a  low,  hacking  cough ;  his  coarse  clothes  were  curiously  clean : 
that  was  to  please  Lois,  of  course.  She  put  the  ham  on  the  table,  and 
some  bubbling  coffee,  and  then,  from  a  hickory-board  in  front  of  the 
fire,  took  off,  with  a  jerk,  brown,  flaky  slices  of  Virginia  johnny-cake. 
—  Margret  Howth  :  Mrs.  R.  H.  Davis.     {By  per.) 


158  CORN-MEAL   FLAPJACKS. 

Corn-Meal  Flapjacks. 
"  One  quart  boiling  milk,  two  cups  of  white  corn- 
meal.      Cook  on  griddle.     Serve  rolled,  with  sugar 

between." 

Corn  Bread. 

"  One  quart  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  butter,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  teacup  flour,  and  enough  corn-meal 
to  make  a  good  batter ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  or  enough 
to  make  the  milk  frothy.     Stir  thoroughly.     Bake  in 

long  pans." 

Fried  Mush. 

Into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  stir  corn-meal, 
until  it  makes  a  smooth  mush ;  boil  half  an  hour ; 
add  salt,  and  stir  briskly.  Have  hot,  in  a  skillet,  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  lard  and  butter ;  drop  the  boil- 
ing mush  into  the  skillet  in  little  pats ;  fry  a  light 
crisp  brown  on  both  sides.  —  Presbyterian  Cook- 
Book:  Mrs.  W.  A.  B.,  Dayton,  O. 

Hominy  Drop-Cakes. 

"  One  pint  of  fresh  boiled  hominy  (or  cold  hominy 
may  be  used ;  if  the  latter,  break  into  grains,  as 
lightly  as  possible,  with  a  fork,  and  heat  in  a  farina- 
kettle  without  adding  water),  one  tablespoonful  of 
water,  two  eggs  —  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately. Stir  the  yolks  into  the  hominy  first,  then 
the  whites,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  if  the  hominy 
has  not  been  salted  in  cooking ;  or,  if  it  has,  use  half 
a  teaspoonful.  Drop,  in  tablespoonfuls,  on  well-but- 
tered tin  sheets,  and  bake  to  a  good  brown  in  a  quick 
oven." 


SALLY  LUNN.  1 59 

Sally  Limn. 

"One  quart  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teacup- 
fuls  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar  and 
one  of  soda,  a  little  salt. 

"  Stir  the  sugar,  cream-tartar,  and  salt  in  the  flour, 
add  the  eggs  without  beating,  the  butter  melted,  and 
the  milk  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  it." 

Rice  Waffles. 

Rub  through  a  sieve  one  pint  of  warm  boiled  rice ; 
add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  dry  flour,  two-thirds  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.  Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of 
three  eggs ;  add  to  the  yolks  three  gills  of  milk, 
work  it  into  the  flour,  then  add  an  ounce  of  melted 
butter ;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  thoroughly ;  mix  the 
whole  together.  Heat  the  waffle-iron,  and  grease  it 
evenly  (a  piece  of  salt  pork  is  best  for  this  purpose)  ; 
pour  the  batter  into  the  half  of  the  iron  over  the 
range  until  nearly  two-thirds  full,  cover,  allow  to 
cook  a  moment,  then  turn  and  brown  slightly  on  the 
other  side.  —  The  Cook.     {By  per.) 

Rye  Muffins. 

Two  cups  rye,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  egg,  one- 
fourth  cup  molasses,  milk  to  mix  quite  soft ;  two 
scant  teaspoons  Royal  powder  sifted  with  meal  and 
flour.  Have  your  pans  very  hot  before  putting  in 
the  mixture. — From  "  Woman  s  Hour"  Boston  Globe. 
{By  per.) 


l6o  OATEN  CAKES. 

Oaten  Cakes. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  two  pounds  of 
oatmeal,  then  add  as  much  water  as  will  just  work 
them  together,  but  the  less  the  better,  and  hot  water 
is  best ;  roll  them  out  with  a  rolling-pin,  as  thin  as 
possible.  One  side  should  be  done  on  the  griddle, 
and  the  other  on  the  toaster.  —  Dainty  Dishes  : 
Lady  Harriet  St.  Clair. 

Frumenty. 

Boil  wheat  till  it  comes  to  a  jelly,  and  to  a  quart 
of  this  add,  by  degrees,  two  quarts  of  new  milk.  Stir 
and  boil  till  well  mixed.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  with  a  little  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to  sweeten  it 
to  taste  ;  stir  this  well  in  over  the  fire ;  pour  it  into 
deep  dishes,  and  eat  either  hot  or  cold.  —  Dainty 
Dishes  :  Lady  Harriet  St.  Clair. 


I  own  that  I  am  somewhat  of  a  devotee.  I  love  to  keep  all  festi- 
vals, to  taste  all  feast-offerings,  from  fermety  (or  irumetry,  frumentum) 
at  Christmas,  to  the  pancakes  at  Shrovetide.  These  things  always 
seem  better  on  those  days  ;  as  the  bread  "  in  the  holy  days  "  is  ever 
better  than  the  bread  at  school,  though  it  come  from  the  same  oven. 
—  Essays  of  Elia  :  Charles  La?nb. 


CHAPTER    XIV. 


PUDDINGS. 


PUDDINGS. 

AN   APPLE   PUDDING. 

One  morning,  a  little  while  after  our  party,  mother  was  making  an 
apple-pudding  for  dinner,  when  Madam  Pennington  and  Miss  Eliza- 
beth drove  round  to  the  door. 

Ruth  was  out  at  her  lessons.  Barbara  was  busy  helping  Mrs. 
Holabird.  Rosamond  went  to  the  door,  and  let  them  into  the  brown 
room. 

"  Mother  will  be  sorry  to  keep  you  waiting,  but  she  will  come  di- 
rectly.    She  is  just  in  the  middle  of  an  apple-pudding." 

Rosamond  said  it  with  as  much  simple  grace  of  pride  as  if  she  had 
had  to  say,  "  Mother  is  busy  at  her  modelling,  and  cannot  leave  her 
clay  till  she  has  damped  and  covered  it."  Her  nice  perception  went 
lo  the  very  farthermost;  it  discerned  the  real  best  to  be  made  of 
things,  the  best  that  was  ready  made,  and  put  that  forth. 

"And  I  know,"  said  Madam  Pennington,  "that  an  apple-pudding 
must  not  be  left  in  the  middle.  I  wonder  if  she  would  let  an  old 
woman,  who  has  lived  in  barracks,  come  to  her  where  she  is  ?  " 

Rosamond's  tact  was  superlative.  She  did  not  say,  "  I  will  go  and 
see."  She  got  right  up,  and  said,  "  I  am  sure  she  will  ;  please  come 
this  way,"  and  opened  the  door,  with  a  sublime  confidence,  full  and 
withourwarning,  upon  the  scene  of  operations. 

"Oh,  how  nice!"  said  Miss  Elizabeth;  and  Madam  Pennington 
walked  forward  into  the  sunshine,  holding  her  hand  out  to  Mrs.  Hola- 
bird, and  smiling  all  the  way  from  her  smooth  old  forehead  down  to 
the  "seventh  beauty"  of  her  dimple-cleft  and  placid  chin. 

"  Why,  this  is  really  coming  to  see  people  !  "  she  said. 

Mrs.  Holabird's  white  hand  did  not  even  want  dusting.  She  just 
laid  down  the  bright  little  chopper  with  which  she  was  re'ducing  her 
flour  and  butter  to  a  golden  powder,  and  took  Madam  Pennington's 
nicely  gloved  fingers  into  her  own,  without  a  breath  of  apology. 
Apology!     It  was  very  meek  of  her  not  to  look  at  all  set  up. 

Barbara  rose  from  her  chair,  with  a  red  ringlet  of  apple-paring 
hanging  down  against  her  white  apron,  and  seated  herself  again  at  her 
work  when  the  visitors  had  taken  the  two  opposite  corners  of  the 
deep,  cushioned  sofa. 

The  red  cloth  was  folded  back  across  the  end  of  the  dining-table ; 
and  at  the  other  end  were  mother's  white  board  and  rolling-pin,  the 
pudding-cloth  wrung  into  a  twist  out  of  the  scald,  and  waiting  upon  a 
plate,  and  a  pitcher  of  cold  water  with  ice  tinkling  against  its  sides. 
Mother  sat  with  the  deal  bowl  in  her  lap,  turning  and  mincing  with 
the  few  last  strokes  the  light,  delicate  dust  of  the  pastry.     The  sun- 

163 


164 


BOILED  APPLE   PUDDING. 


shine  —  work  and  sunshine  always  go  so  blessedly  together  —  poured 
111,  and  filled  the  room  up  with  life  and  glory. 

"  Why,  this  is  the  pleasantest  room  in  all  your  house  !  "  said  Miss 
Elizabeth. 

"  That  is  just  what  Ruth  said  it  would  be  when  we  turned  it  into  a 
kitchen,"  said  Barbara. 

"  You  don't  mean  that  this  is  really  your  kitchen  !  " 

"  I  don't  think  we  are  quite  sure  what  it  is,"  replied  Barbara,  laugh- 
ing. "  We  either  dine  in  our  kitchen,  or  kitch  in  our  dining-room ; 
and  I  don't  believe  we  have  found  out  yet  which  it  is." 

"  You  are  wonderful  people  !  " 

"  You  ought  to  have  belonged  to  the  army,  and  lived  in  quarters," 
said  Mrs.  Pennington.  "  Only  you  would  have  made  your  rooms  so 
bewitching,  you  would  have  been  always  getting  turned  out." 

"  Turned  out  ?  " 

"  Yes ;  by  the  ranking  family.  That  is  the  way  they  do.  The 
major  turns  out  the  captain,  and  the  colonel  the  major.  There's  no 
rest  for  the  sole  of  your  foot  till  you're  a  general." 

Mrs.  Holabird  set  her  bowl  on  the  table,  and  poured  in  the  ice- 
water.  Then  the  golden  dust,  turned  and  cut  lightly  by  the  chopper, 
gathered  into  a  tender,  mellow  mass,  and  she  lifted  it  out  upon  the 
board.  She  shook  out  the  scalded  cloth,  spread  it  upon  the  emptied 
bowl,  sprinkled  it  snowy  thick  with  flour,  rolled  out  the  crust  with  a 
free  quick  movement,  and  laid  it  on  into  the  curve  of  the  basin.  Bar- 
bara brought  the  apples,  cut  up  in  white,  fresh  slices,  and  slid  them 
into  the  round.  Mrs.  Holabird  folded  over  the  edges,  gathered  up 
the  linen  cloth  in  her  hands,  tied  it  tightly  with  a  string,  and  Barbara 
disappeared  with  it  behind  the  damask  screen,  where  a  puff  of  steam 
went  up  in  a  minute  that  told  the  pudding  was  in.  Then  Mrs.  Hola- 
bird went  into  the  pantry-closet  and  washed  her  hands,  that  never 
really  came  to  need  more  than  a  finger-bowl  could  do  for  them,  and 
Barbara  carried  after  her  the  board  and  its  etceteras,  and  the  red 
cloth  was  drawn  on  again,  and  there  was  nothing  but  a  low,  comfort- 
able bubble  in  the  chimney-corner  to  tell  of  housewifery  or  dinner. 

"  I  wish  it  had  lasted  longer,"  said  Miss  Elizabeth.  "  I  am  afraid 
I  shall  feel  like  company  again  now." — We  Girls:  Mrs.  A.  D.  T. 
Whitney.     Houghton,  Mifflin,  &°  Co.,  Puds.     {By  per.) 


Boiled  Apple  Pudding. 

"  Make  a  butter  crust,  or  a  suet  one,  using  for  a 
moderate-sized  pudding  from  three-quarters  to  one 
pound  of  flour,  with  the  other  ingredients  in  propor- 
tion. Butter  a  basin,  line  it  with  some  of  the  paste  ; 
pare,  core,  and  cut  the  apples  into  slices,  and  fill 
the  basin  with  these ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  flavor  with 


SPANISH  FRUIT  rUDDING.  l6$ 

lemon  peel  and  juice,  and  cover  with  crust ;    pinch 

the  edges  together ;  flour  the  cloth,  place  it  over  the 

pudding,  tie    it    securely,  and  put  it  into  plenty  of 

fast-boiling  water.     Let  it  boil  from  one  and  a  half 

to  two  and  a  half  hours,  according  to  the  size;  then 

turn    it    out    of    the   basin,    and    send    it   to    table 

quickly." 

Spanish  Fruit  Pudding. 

Line  a  baking-dish  with  a  light  puff-paste  ;  add  a 
layer  of  shredded  pine-apple,  and  cover  it  with  pow- 
dered sugar ;  add  a  layer  of  sweet  oranges  sliced  ; 
strew  over  them  a  thin  layer  of  sugar  ;  next  add  a 
layer  of  sliced  bananas  with  sugar  strewn  over  them. 
Repeat  the  process  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  the 
dish  with  a  light  puff-paste,  and  bake  to  a  delicate 
brown.  —  Puddings  and  Dainty  Desserts  :  Thomas 
J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Apple  Dumplings. 

Add  to  two  cups  sour  milk  one  teacpoonful  soda 
and  one  of  salt,  half  cup  butter  or  lard,  flour  enough 
to  make  dough  a  little  stiffer  than  for  biscuit ;  or, 
make  a  good  baking-powder  crust  ;  peel  and  core 
apples  ;  roll  out  crust,  place  apples  on  dough,  fill 
cavity  of  each  with  sugar,  incase  each  apple  in  coat- 
ing of  the  crust,  press  edges  tight  together  (it  is  nice 
to  tie  a  cloth  around  each  one),  put  into  kettle  of 
boiling  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an  hour,  taking 
care  that  the  water  covers  the  dumplings.  They  are 
also  very  nice  steamed. 

To  bake,  make  in  the  same  way,  using  a  soft 
dough ;  place  in  a  shallow  pan,  bake  in  a  hot  oven, 


1 66  BROWN  BETTY. 

and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  —  Every-day  Cook- 
Book  :  Miss  Neill.  Be /ford,  Clarke,  &  Co.,  Puds. 
(By  per.) 

C holds  that  a  man  cannot   have  a  pure   mind  who   refuses 

apple-dumplings.  I  am  not  certain  but  he  is  right.  —  Grace  before 
Meat:  Charles  Lamb. 

Brown  Betty. 

"Take  one  cup  bread-crumbs,  two  cups  chopped 
sour  apples,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, two  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  into  small  bits. 
Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  chopped  apple 
at  the  bottom  ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  and  cinnamon  ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs,  then 
more  apple  ;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Cover  closely,  and 
steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 
then  uncover  and  brown  quickly.  Eat  warm  with 
sugar  and  cream  or  sweet  sauce.  This  is  a  cheap  but 
good  pudding." 

Gateau  des  Pommes. 

"Take  a  few  apples,  boil  them  with  as  little  water 

as  possible,  and  make  them  into  apple-sauce ;  then 

add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a 

lemon ;   boil  all  together  till  quite  firm,  and  put  it 

into  a  mould.     Garnish  it  with  almonds  stuck  over 

it.     It  will  keep  for  months  if  allowed  to  remain  in 

the  mould." 

Sunday  Apple-Sauce. 

Core  and  bake,  filling  the  holes  with  sugar,  seven 
or  eight  apples.  When  very  soft,  mash  them  through 
a  sieve  into  a  small  pudding-dish  ;  grate  in  the  rind 
of  a  fresh  lemon,  and  spread  over  the  top  the  white 


RICE   MERINGUE.  1 67 

of  one  egg  beaten  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  brown 
slightly.  Eat  cold.  —  From  "Woman's  Hour"  Boston 
Globe.     (By  per?) 

Rice  Meringue. 

One  cup  boiled  rice,  one  large  pint  milk,  two  eggs, 
one  large  cup  sugar,  one  lemon.  Boil  the  milk,  stir 
in  the  rice.  Beat  yolks  with  one-third  of  the  sugar, 
then  add  to  the  milk  and  rice,  and  cook  until  thick 
as  soft  custard.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  grate  in  rind 
of  lemon  ;  pour  into  a  buttered  dish.  Beat  whites 
with  the  rest  of  sugar,  and  add  juice  of  lemon  ;  pour 
over  pudding,  and  brown.  A  delicious  pudding.  — 
From  "  Woman 's  Hour,"  Boston  Globe.     {By  perl) 

Rogrod. 

"It  is  made  of  the  juice,  in  equal  parts,  of  two 
fruits,  —  cherries  and  currants,  or  raspberries, — with 
one-third  water,  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Thicken 
with  rice,  flour,  or  sago ;  boil,  and  turn  into  moulds. 
Serve  with  sugar,  cream,  and  powdered  cinnamon." 

Rice  Black-cap  Pudding. 

"Butter  a  pudding-basin,  stick  raisins  or  prunes 
all  over  the  bottom,  and  pour  into  the  centre  a  tea- 
cupful  of  dry  rice,  this  quantity  being  sufficient  for 
a  basin  that  will  hold  a  pint  of  water.  Tie  a  cloth 
tightly  over  the  basin,  and  plunge  it  into  boiling 
water.  Boil  for  an  hour,  when  it  will  turn  out  a  nice 
shape,  with  the  raisins  or  prunes  covering  the  top  of 
the  rice,  which  form  the  black  cap.  It  can  be  eaten 
with  sugar  and  butter,  or  sirup,  or  plain  pudding- 
sauce." 


1 68  INDIAN-MEAL   PUDDING. 

Indian-Meal  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  yellow  Indian  meal,  one  quart  and  a 
cupful  of  milk,  three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  molasses, 
one  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  half  teaspoonful 
each  of  cinnamon  and  mace.  Scald  the  salted  meal 
with  the  water.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  farina-kettle ; 
stir  in  the  scalded  meal,  and  boil,  stirring  often,  for 
half  an  hour.  Beat  the  eggs  light ;  put  in  the  butter 
and  molasses,  stirred  together  until  they  are  several 
shades  lighter  than  at  first ;  add  the  spice ;  lastly,  the 
batter  from  the  farina-kettle,  beaten  in  a  little  at  a 
time,  until  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incor- 
porated. Grease  a  pudding-dish  ;  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake,  covered,  in  a  steady  oven,  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Remove  the  lid,  and  brown.  This  is  the 
genuine,  old-fashioned  New-England  "Indian"  pud- 
ding. Eat  with  sauce,  or  with  cream  and  sugar.  It 
is  very  nice.  —  Marion  Harland.  The  Post,  Wash* 
ington,  D.C.     {By  per) 

Florentine  Pudding. 

"  Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  your  pan,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil ;  mix  smoothly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch and  a  little  cold  milk  ;  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  beaten,  half  a  teacup  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  va- 
nilla, lemon,  or  any  thing  your  fancy  suggests  ;  stir 
into  the  scalding  milk,  continue  stirring  till  the  con- 
sistency of  starch  (ready  for  use),  then  put  into  the 
pan  or  dish  you  wish  to  serve  in.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  with  a  teacup  of  pulverized  sugar  ;  spread 


BAKED    CUSTARDS.  l6o, 

over  the  top  ;  place  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes, 
till  the  frosting  is  pretty  brown.  Can  be  eaten  with 
cream,  or  is  good  enough  without.  For  a  change  you 
can  bake  in  cups." 

Baked  Custards. 

"  One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  very  little  salt.  Season  with  nutmeg,  or  flavor 
with  rosewater,  or  any  essence  preferred.  Fill  the 
cups,  and  set  them  into  a  tin  of  hot  water,  and  bake 
the  custards  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  you  think 
they  are  done,  try  them  with  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon 
inserted  at  the  edge,  as  they  are  spoiled  by  over-bak- 
ing. Some  persons  like  blanched  almonds  cut  very 
fine  in  the  custard.  If  added,  use  only  a  little  flavor 
of  any  other  kind." 

Amber  Pudding. 

"Put  twelve  ounces  of  finely  powdered  loaf-sugar,, 
and  a  pound  of  butter,  into  a  saucepan  ;  melt  the 
butter,  and  mix  both  well :  then  add  the  yolks  of  fif- 
teen eggs  well  beaten,  and  as  much  candied  orange, 
beaten  to  a  fine  paste,  as  will  add  color  and  flavor. 
Line  the  dish  with  paste  for  turning  out,  fill  it  up 
with  the  above,  lay  a  crust  over  the  top,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven." 

Bread  Pudding. 

"  Take  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  white  sugar, 
two  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste ;  half  cup  of  raisins  ; 
stir  well  together,  and  bake." 


I  JO  ENGLISH  TAPIOCA    PUDDING. 

English  Tapioca  Pudding. 

"One  cup  of  tapioca,  three  pints  fresh  milk,  five 
eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half 
pound  of  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  half,  half  the 
grated  peel  of  one  lemon. 

"  Soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  a  pint  of  the  milk,  pour 
into  jar,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  warm  water,  and  bring  to 
a  boil.  When  the  tapioca  is  soft  all  through,  turn 
out  to  cool  somewhat,  while  you  make  the  custard. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light  ;  rub  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether ;  mix  all  with  the  tapioca,  the  fruit  last.  Bake 
in  buttered  dish  one  hour." 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Add  one  ounce  of  grated  chocolate  to  a  quart  of 
milk,  boil  thoroughly,  flavor  with  vanilla ;  set  aside  to 
cool,  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  it  stiffens  like 
custard.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  with  a  table, 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  to  a  stiff  froth ;  spread 
over  the  top  of  the  pudding ;  return  to  the  oven,  and 
brown  quickly. — Puddings  and  Dainty  Desserts: 
Thomas  J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  one  rounded  cup  of  prepared  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  generous  quart  of 
berries.  Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  whip 
in  the  beaten  yolks,  the  milk,  the  whites,  at  last  the 
flour.     Bake  in  three  jelly-cake  tins,  and  let  the  cakes 


COMPOTE   OF  GOOSEBERRIES.  lyl 

get  cold.  Cut  the  berries  into  halves,  and  lay  be- 
tween them,  sprinkling  the  strata  with  sugar.  Sift 
sugar  on  the  topmost  layer.  Slice,  and  eat  with  cream. 
—  Marion  Harland.      The  Post,  WasJiiugton,  D.  C. 

Doubtless  God  might  have  made  a  better  berry  than  the  strawberry, 
but,  doubtless,  God  never  did.  —  Dr.  Boteler. 

We  may  well  celebrate  it  with  festivals  and  music.  It  has  that 
indescribable  quality  of  all  first  things,  —  that  shy,  uncloying,  provok- 
ing, barbed  sweetness.  It  is  eager  and  sanguine  as  youth.  It  is  born 
of  the  copious  dews,  the  fragrant  nights,  the  tender  skies,  the  plentiful 
rains  of  the  early  season.  The  singing  of  birds  is  in  it,  and  the  health 
and  frolic  of  lusty  nature.  It  is  the  product  of  liquid  May,  touched 
by  the  June  sun.  —  Locusts  and  Wild  Honey  :  John  Burroughs. 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  6°  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Compote  of  Gooseberries. 

Choose  a  quart  of  large,  sound,  ripe,  green  goose- 
berries (cost  ten  cents),  remove  the  stems  and  tops, 
throw  them  into  boiling  water  for  two  minutes  ;  drain 
them,  let  them  lie  three  minutes  in  cold  water  con- 
taining a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  restore  their 
color,  and  then  drain  them  quite  dry.  Meantime 
make  a  thick  sirup  by  boiling  one  pound  of  sugar 
(cost  twelve  cents)  with  one  pint  of  water.  As  soon 
as  the  sirup  has  boiled  about  ten  minutes,  put  in  the 
gooseberries,  and  boil  them  gently  until  just  tender,  — 
about  ten  minutes.  Then  pour  both  fruit  and  sirup 
into  an  earthen  or  glass  dish,  cool,  and  use.  The 
dish  will  cost  less  than  twenty-five  cents.  —  Twenty- 
five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson.  O.  Judd 
Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Blackberry  Flummery. 

"Stew  blackberries,  moderately  sweetened  with 
sugar,  until  soft ;  mix  a  thickening  of  flour  and  water, 


172  HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

and  stir  into  the  berries.  Continue  stirring  while  it 
boils,  until  the  whole  becomes  incorporated  into  a 
mass  just  sufficiently  thick  to  pour  into  moulds ; 
when  cold  turn  out  for  dessert.  To  be  eaten  with 
milk  or  cream  and  sugar." 

Black  as  Beauty's  tresses, 

Sweet  as  Love's  caresses, 
Darlings  of  the  people,  beloved  of  high  and  low ; 

Dear  to  age  and  childhood, 

Gleaming  in  the  wildwood, 
Peeping  to  the  sunshine  in  every  green  hedgerow  ; 

Berries  of  the  bramble, 

How  I  love  to  ramble 
Through  the  shady  valleys,  and  pluck  you  as  I  go  ! 

Blackberries  :  Charles  Mackay. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  best  Orleans  molasses  ;  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  and  one  of  cinnamon  ; 
one  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk ; 
flour  enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  pound- 
cake ;  one  quart  of  huckleberries ;  boil  two  and  a 
half  hours  in  a  pudding-mould.  Eat  with  cream  and 
sugar,  or  pudding-sauce.  —  Presbyterian  Cook-Book. 
Dayton,  O.     (By per.) 

Roly-Poly. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour ;  make  good  biscuit  crust ; 
roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  and  spread  with  any  kind 
of  fruit,  fresh  or  preserved  ;  fold  so  that  the  fruit  will 
not  run  out ;  dip  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  flour  it, 
and  lay  it  around  the  pudding  closely,  leaving  room 
to  swell ;  steam  one  or  one  and  one-half  hours  ;  serve 
with  boiled  sauce.  Every-day  Cook-Book:  Miss 
Neill.     Be/ford,  Clarke,  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per) 


ENGLISH  CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING.        1 73 

English  Christmas  Plum  Pudding. 

"  One  pound  of  raisins,  well  stoned  ;  one  pound  cur- 
rants, well  washed  ;  one-quarter  pound  suet,  finely 
chopped ;  one-quarter  pound  flour,  or  bread  finely 
crumbled ;  three  ounces  of  sugar ;  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  grated  lemon-peel,  a  blade  of  mace,  half 
a  small  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger ;  six  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  work  well  together ;  put  into  a  cloth,  tie 
firmly,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  boil  not  less  than 
five  hours.     It  should  not  be  allowed  to  stop  boiling." 

Cup  Plum  Pudding. 

Take  one  cup  each  of  raisins,  currants,  flour, 
bread-crumbs,  suet,  and  sugar ;  stone  and  cut  the 
raisins,  wash  and  dry  the  currants,  chop  the  suet, 
and  mix  all  the  above  ingredients  well  together  ;  then 
add  two  ounces  of  cut  candied  peel  and  citron,  a 
little  mixed  spice,  salt,  and  ginger,  say  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  each  ;  stir  in  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  the  mixture  so  that  the  spoon 
will  stand  upright  in  it ;  tie  it  loosely  in  a  cloth,  or 
put  in  a  mould  ;  plunge  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil 
for  three  and  a  half  hours.  —  Boston  Budget. 

Molasses  Sauce. 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 
(about  half  a  teaspoonful),  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Boil  all  together  for  twenty  minutes.  The  juice 
of  a  lemon  can  be  used  instead  of  the  vinegar.     This 


174  A  PR1C0  T  SA  UCE. 

sauce  is  nice  for  apple  or  rice  puddings.  —  New 
Cook-Book  :  Miss  Parloa.  Estes  &  Lauriai,  Pubs. 
{By  per.) 

Fruit-Sirup  Sauce. 

One  cup  fruit-sirup,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  corn-starch,  one  teaspoonful  butter.  Use 
the  sirup  from  apricots,  peaches,  cherries,  quinces, 
or  any  fruit  you  prefer.  The  amount  of  sugar  will 
depend  upon  the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  Mix  the  corn- 
starch with  the  sugar,  add  the  sirup,  and  boil  all 
together  five  minutes.  Add  butter  last.  —  The  Peer 
less  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Redding  & 
Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Hard  Sauce. 

Beat  to  a  cream  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  add 
gradually  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  beat  it  until 
very  white  ;  add  a  little  lemon-juice,  or  grate  nutmeg 
on  top.  —  The  Every-day  Cook-Book  :  Miss  Neill. 
Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By per.) 

Foaming  Sauce 

May  be  made,  all  but  adding  the  hot  water,  a  long 
time  before  using.  Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
add  to  it  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  then  the  un- 
beaten white  of  one  egg,  and  any  flavoring  you  choose. 
When  the  time  comes  for  serving,  add  slowly  an 
eighth  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water ;  then  set  the 
bowl  into  another  of  hot  water,  and  stir  till  the  sauce 
is  smooth,  but  not  oily,  —  say  about  two  minutes.  — 
Public  Ledger,  PJiiladelphia.     {By  per) 


plain  run  ding-sauce.  175 

Plain  Pudding- Sauce. 

"To  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  add,  to  thicken, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat-flour  mixed  smooth  in 
a  little  cold  water ;  put  in  a  tablespoonful,  or  more, 
of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg 
and  essence  of  lemon  or  vanilla." 


CHAPTER    XV. 


PIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES. 


PIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES. 
Murrey's  Pie-crust. 

It  is  our  firm  conviction,  that  the  average  pie  of 
to-day  is  the  direct  cause  of  more  ill-nature  and  gen- 
eral "cussedness  "  in  mankind  than  any  thing  else, 
and  that  there  lurks  more  solid,  downright  dyspepsia 
in  a  square  inch  of  baker's  pie  than  in  all  the  other 
dyspeptic-producing  compounds  known.  The  pie  we 
desire  to  see  upon  the  American  table  is  one  that  is 
more  the  receptacle  for  fruit,  than  a  blending  of  fruit 
with  puff-paste  so  soggy  that  lead  would  digest 
almost  as  easily.  When  a  top  is  used,  let  there 
be  but  little  of  it,  and  so  light  and  delicate  that 
"fairy  footfalls  "  would  break  through  it. 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Horsford's  baking-pow- 
der ;  add  gradually  three  gills  of  milk ;  work  to  a 
dough,  divide  into  four  parts,  and  roll  out  the  desired 
size.  This  crust  when  eaten  is  not  harmful.  —  Pud- 
dings and  Dainty  Desserts  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey. 
White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Flake  Pie-crust. 

"Take  one-half  cup  of  lard  to  a  pint  of  flour ;  rub 
well  together ;  add  water  sufficient  to  make  a  dough 
(not  too  stiff) ;  roll  out,  and  spread  with  butter,  dust 
with  flour,  fold  over  evenly,  and  roll  out  again.  Re- 
peat this  several  times  (spreading  with  butter,  folding 

179 


I  So  RHUBARB  PIE. 

over,  and  rolling  out  again).  Keep  your  crust  as  cold 
as  possible  :  use  ice-water  in  mixing.  Pastry  is  bet- 
ter when  rolled  out  on  marble." 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Take  the  tender  stalks  of  rhubarb,  strip  off  the 
skin,  and  cut  the  stalks  into  thin  slices.  Line  deep 
plates  with  pie-crust ;  then  put  in  the  rhubarb,  with 
a  thick  layer  of  sugar  to  each  layer  of  rhubarb ;  a 
little  grated  lemon-peel  improves  the  pie.  Cover  the 
pies  with  a  crust,  press  it  down  tight  upon  the  edge 
of  the  plate,  and  prick  the  crust  with  a  fork,  so  that 
the  crust  will  not  burst  while  baking,  and  let  out  the 
juices  of  the  pie.  Rhubarb-pies  should  be  baked 
about  an  hour,  in  a  slow  oven  :  it  will  not  do  to  bake 
them  quickly.  Some  cooks  stew  the  rhubarb  before 
making  it  into  pies,  but  it  is  not  so  good  as  when 
used  without  stewing.  —  American  Home  Cook- 
Book.     Dick  &  Fitzgerald,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Green-Apple  Pie. 

Stew  and  strain  the  apples,  and  sugar  to  your 
taste ;  grate  the  peel  of  a  fresh  lemon,  or  flavor  with 
rosewater.  Bake  in  a  rich  paste  half  an  hour.  — 
Godey's  Lady's  Book.     {By per.) 

Dried-Apple  Pie. 

To  a  pint  of  stewed  dried  apples,  passed  through 
a  colander,  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs, 
and  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  beaten  well 
together  as  for  custard.  Spice  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves. 


PEACH  PIES.  l8l 

Bake  with  upper  and  under  crusts.     This  quantity 
will  make  two  pies.  — Lizzie  Strohm. 

Peach  Pies. 

Take  good  ripe  peaches,  halve  and  stone  them  ; 
make  a  good  short  crust,  and  lay  it  in  your  pie-plates  ; 
lay  your  peaches  evenly  to  cover  it ;  then  add  to 
each  moderate-sized  pie  about  three  spoonfuls  of 
white  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon 
or  rose,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  water  ;  cover,  and 
bake  like  other  pies.  —  Godey  's  Lady 's  Book. 

Prune  Pie. 

"  Stew  the  prunes  until  soft,  then  cool,  and  remove 
the  stones.  Fill  your  dish  with  them,  sweeten,  and 
spice  with  a  little  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  cloves. 
Bake  with  upper  and  under  crust." 

Tomato  Pie. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes,  wash,  peel,  and  cut  in  thin 
slices  ;  fill  a  pie-dish  lined  with  good  paste  with 
them ;  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  and  sift  a  little 
cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg  over  ;  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  one  of  lemon-essence ; 
cover  with  crust,  and  bake. — Lulie  Strohm. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Wash,  cut  into  halves,  and  slice  a  yellow  "  Yankee 
pumpkin  ; "  scrape  out  the  seeds  and  the  stringy  por- 
tions lying  next  to  them,  peel,  and  lay  the  slices  in  a 
steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  When  they  can 
be   easily   pierced   by   a   fork,   take   off,    and,    after 


1 82  SQUASH  PIE. 

emptying  the  pot  of  its  water,  turn  the  pumpkin  into 
it,  and  set  back  on  to  a  moderate  fire  ;  leave  it  uncov- 
ered, and  stir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching,  until 
it  seems  quite  dry,  which  should  be  in  about  fifteen 
minutes  ;  while  hot,  press  it  through  a  coarse  sieve 
with  a  potato-masher.  Now  to  one  pint  of  pumpkin 
take  three  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separ- 
ately ;  into  the  yolks  stir  a  small  teacup  of  soft  light- 
brown  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  a 
grate  or  two  of  nutmeg ;  if  ginger  is  preferred  as 
a  flavoring,  a  very  scant  teaspoonful  may  be  used,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  this  to  a  cream,  mix 
with  the  pumpkin,  and  add  a  quart  of  milk ;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  all  well  together.  Do 
not  have  the  crust  too  short,  else  there  will  be 
trouble  in  getting  the  pie  from  the  pan.  Roll  quite, 
thin,  bake  well  in  the  bottom,  and  remove  from  the 
oven  when  the  pie  is  firm  in  the  centre.  This  will 
result  in  a  pumpkin  pie  "  fit  to  set  before  the  king." 
—  Commercial  Gazette,  Cincinnati,  O.     {By  per.) 

Ah !  on  Thanksgiving  Day,  when  from  East  and  from  West, 
From  North  and  from  South,  come  the  pilgrim  and  guest, 
When  the  gray-haired  New-Englander  sees  round  his  board 
The  old  broken  links  of  affection  restored, 
When  the  care-wearied  man  seeks  his  mother  once  more, 
And  the  worn  matron  smiles  where  the  girl  smiled  before, 
What  moistens  the  lip,  and  what  brightens  the  eye, 
What  calls  back  the  past,  like  the  rich  pumpkin  pie  ? 

The  Pumpkin  :  J.  G.  Whittier.    {By per.  Houghton,  Mifflin,  &  Co.) 

Squash  Pie. 

"  One  cup  stewed  squash,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  and  milk  enough  to  fill  pie-plate.  First 
line  pie-plate  with  crust,  then  beat  eggs  and  sugar 


CUSTARD  PIE.  -      183 

together,  adding  squash  and  milk.  Season  with  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  and  allspice,  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake 
till  well  done." 

Custard  Pie. 

"Take  three  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk, 
nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste,  and  a  little  salt ;  stir  all 
together,  adding  the  eggs  last." 

Cream  Pies. 

"  Make  the  crust  as  usual,  and  spread  on  the  tins. 
For  each  pie  take  one-half  cup  of  pulverized  sugar 
and  nearly  as  much  of  sifted  flour  ;  rub  together  dry, 
and  spread  over  the  crust.  (It  is  quite  essential  that 
the  flour  and  sugar  should  be  well  mixed  before 
uniting  with  the  cream,  as  it  prevents  all  possibility 
to  lumps.)  Pour  over  it  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  and 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  sour  or  loppered  milk,  stir  gently 
into  the  flour  and  sugar.  Grate  over  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  bake  in  quick  oven.  It  is  better  to  place  an 
iron  grate  in  the  oven  under  the  pies,  as  they  are 
liable  to  'run  over'  if  too  hot  at  the  bottom.  These 
pies  are  always  in  good  demand.  If  sweet  cream  is 
used,  no  milk  should  be  added.  They  should  always 
be  eaten  fresh,  but  are  good  cold  or  warm." 

Cocoanut  Pies. 

One  cocoanut  grated,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter, 
two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  pint  milk.  If  the 
desiccated  cocoanut  is  used,  take  two  and  one-half 
cups,  and  soak  in  milk  two  or  three  hours.  —  "  Wo- 
man's  Hour,"  Sunday  Globe,  Boston,  Mass.     (By  per) 


1 84  LEMON  PIE. 

Lemon  Pie.     No.  i. 

"Take  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  stir 
together  with  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  white  sugar 
and  one  cup  of  water  ;  lastly,  stir  in  four  eggs,  well 
beaten,  reserving  the  whites  of  two  for  frosting. 
Fill  into  crust,  and  bake.  For  frosting  beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  reserved,  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar ;  spread  over  the 
top  evenly,  and  return  to  oven  until  slightly 
browned." 

Lemon  Pie.     No.  2. 

"  To  one  lemon  cut  in  thin  slices,  add  one  teacup 
ful  of  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with 
the  sugar.     Fill  up  with  water,  a'nd  bake  slowly." 

Orange  Pie.     No.  1. 

"  One  orange  grated,  five  crackers  rolled  fine,  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  sugar  to 
sweeten.     Bake  as  custard." 

Orange  Pie.     No.  2. 

"Make  a  cake  of  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
two  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs  ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of 
cream-tartar  in  the  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  the  milk.  Flavor  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  an  orange.  Bake  it  in  low  tins  as  for  Washington 
pie.  When  cool,  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  mixed  with  sufficient 
granulated  sugar  to  thicken  and  sweeten  it ;  spread 
this  like  jelly  between  the  layers  of  the  cake.     Frost, 


RAISIN  PIE.  185 

if  you  like,  with  the  white  of  one  egg,  a  small  cup 
of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  orange." 

Raisin  Pie. 

"One  lemon,  juice  and  yellow  rind;  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  cup  water,  one  cup  rolled  crackers,  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Stone  the  raisins,  and  boil  in  water  to 
soften." 

Mincemeat  without  Brandy. 

Take  six  pounds  of  beef  from  the  shoulder,  and 
boil  fast  for  a  few  moments  so  as  to  seal  up  the  pores 
of  the  meat;  then  more  slowly  until  quite  tender, 
salting  as  if  for  table  use.  Allow  it  to  simmer  down 
as  dry  as  possible  without  scorching,  thereby  saving 
all  the  juice  of  the  meat.  If  this  is  not  successfully 
clone,  use  the  liquor  which  is  left,  in  the  mincemeat. 
It  must  be  perfectly  cold  before  chopping.  To 
every  pint  of  meat  take  three  cups  of  chopped 
apple.  If  the  pies  are  preferred  cold,  use,  instead 
of  suet,  two  pints  of  melted  butter ;  otherwise,  one- 
half  the  quantity  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  finely 
chopped  suet  will  do  ;  the  juice  of  three  lemons  ; 
three  pints  of  brown  sugar  (if  this  quantity  does 
not  sweeten  sufficiently,  add  cautiously  to  suit  the 
taste) ;  three  pounds  of  raisins,  the  largest  of  them 
cut  in  two  and  seeded ;  two  pounds  of  well-washed 
currants  ;  two  gallons  of  sweet  cider  (if  it  has  fer- 
mented, add  another  half-gallon,  and  boil  in  a  gran- 
ite or  porcelain  kettle  an  hour  and  a  half)  ;  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  level  spoonful 
each  of  cloves  and  pepper,  two  small  nutmegs,  and, 


1 86  EDITOR'S  DOUGHNUTS. 

if  citron  is  liked,  one-half  pound  cut  into  small  pieces. 
It  should  be  mixed  one  day  at  least  before  using,  and 
will  keep  two  weeks  in  cold  weather ;  or  it  may  be 
heated  thoroughly  and  canned.  If  more  spices  are 
liked,  they  can  be  added :  better  not  enough  than  too 
much.  —  Commercial  Gazette,  Cincinnati,  O.     (By  per.) 

I  was  happy  to  find  my  old  friend,  minced-pie,  in  the  retinue  of  the 
feast ;  and  finding  him  to  be  perfectly  orthodox,  and  that  I  need  not 
be  ashamed  of  my  predilection,  I  greeted  him  with  all  the  warmth 
wherewith  we  usually  greet  an  old  and  very  genteel  acquaintance.  — 
The  Sketch-Book  :  Christmas  Eve  :  Washington  Irving.  {By  per. 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons.) 

Editor's  Doughnuts. 

"  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  buttermilk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one  egg, 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  cinnamon  ;  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll. 
Cut  in  shapes,  and  drop  into  boiling  lard  ;  when  taken 
out  and  partly  cool,  clip  in  powdered  sugar." 

Crullers. 
"One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  two  and  a  half  spoonfuls  baking-powder, 
flour  sufficient  to  roll,  flavor  to  taste.     Fry  as  dough- 
nuts." 

Sour-Cream  Cookies. 

"  One  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 

eggs,  one  teaspoonful  (not  heaping)  of  soda,  a  little 

salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  flavor 

with  caraway-seeds."  • 

Jumbles. 

"  One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  six   cups 


GINGER-SArAPS.  1 87 

Hour,  a  little  nutmeg.  Roll  them  out,  cut  them  with 
a  tumbler  and  a  wine-glass  to  form  a  ring  ;  dust  over 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  sift  on  a  little  sugar 
before  baking." 

Ginger-Snaps. 

"  One  pint  of  molasses,  one-half  pound  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
half  pound  of  butter.     Mix  well,  and  roll  thin." 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

"  Half  pint  of  buttermilk,  half  pint  molasses,  half 
teacup  butter,  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, and  half  a  nutmeg-.  Stir  in  flour  until  it  is  a 
thick  batter.     Bake  in  square  pans  half  an  hour." 

Ginger  Horse-Cakes. 

"  One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  best  Orleans 
molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  tablespoonful  and  a 
half  of  ginger,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  half 
a  cupful  of  sour  cream,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  lard.  Sift  the  flour  first,  and  then  sprinkle  the 
ginger  well  through  it ;  add  the  sugar  and  molasses, 
putting  in  lastly  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream. 
Obtain  from  a  tinner  a  cutter  shaped  like  a  horse,  for 
cutting  out  the  cakes." 

Rock  Cakes. 

Mix  well  together  four  ounces  each  of  butter  and 
sugar  (cost  twelve  cents)  ;  add  four  ounces  of  well- 
washed  currants  (cost  three  cents),  one  pound  of 
flour   (cost  four  cents),  and  three  eggs  (cost   three 


1 88  ROCK  CAKES. 

cents)  ;  beat  all  these  ingredients  thoroughly  ;  roll 
them  into  little  balls,  or  rocks,  and  bake  them  on  a 
buttered  baking-pan.  A  good  supply  will  cost  about 
twenty-two  cents.  —  Twenty-five-Cent  Dinners  : 
Miss  Juliet  Corson.     O.Judd  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 


CHAPTER    XVI. 


CAKES,    DESSERTS,    ICE-CREAMS,    TEA, 
COFFEE,    CHOCOLATE. 


CAKES,    DESSERTS,    ICE-CREAMS,    TEA, 
COFFEE,    CHOCOLATE. 

THE  PARTY. 

Donald  and  Dorry  joined  the  merry  line,  wondering  what  was 
about  to  happen — when,  to  their  great  surprise  (ah,  that  sly  Uncle 
George,  and  that  innocent  Liddy !),  the  double  doors  leading  into  the 
dining-room  were  flung  open,  and  there,  sparkling  in  the  light  of  a 
hundred  wax  candles,  was  a  collation  fit  for  Cinderella  and  all  her 
royal  court.  I  shall  not  attempt  to  describe  it,  for  fear  of  forgetting 
to  name  some  of  the  good  things.  Imagine  what  you  will,  and  I  do 
believe  there  was  something  just  like  it,  or  quite  as  good,  upon  that 
delightful  table,  so  beautiful  with  its  airy,  fairy-like  structures  of 
candied  fruits,  frostings,  and  flowers ;  its  jagged  rock  of  ice  where 
chickens  and  turtles,  made  of  ice-cream,  were  resting  on  every  peak 
and  cranny;  its  gold-tinted  jellies,  and  its  snowy  temples.  ...  At 
this  very  moment,  Gory  Danby,  quite  unconscious  of  the  feast  up- 
stairs, was  having  his  own  private  table  in  the  kitchen.  Having  grown 
hungry  for  his  usual  supper  of  bread  and  milk,  he  had  stolen  in  upon 
Norah,  and  begged  for  it  so  charmingly,  that  she  was  unable  to  resist 
him.  Imagine  his  surprise  when,  drowsily  taking  his  last  mouthful, 
he  saw  Fandy  rush  into  the  room  with  a  plate  of  white  grapes. 

"  Gory  Danby !  "  exclaimed  that  disgusted  brother,  "  I'm  'shamed 
of  you!  What  you  stufrin'  yourse'f  with  common  supper  for  when 
there's  a  party  upstairs?  Splendid  things,  all  made  of  sugar!  Pull 
off  that  bib  now,  an'  come  along ! "  —  Donald  and  Dorothy  • 
Mrs.  Mary  Mapes  Dodge.    Roberts  Bros.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 


Angel  Cake. 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cup- 
fuls  of  granulated  sugar ;  one  cupful  of  pastry-flour, 
measured  after  being  sifted  four  times ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  vanilla  extract. 
Sift  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  together.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.     Beat  the  sugar  into  the 

191 


I92  SILVER   CAKE. 

eggs,  and  add  the  seasoning  and  flour,  stirring 
quickly  and  lightly.  Beat  until  ready  to  put  the 
mixture  in  the  oven.  Use  a  pan  that  has  little  legs 
at  the  top  corners,  so  that  when  the  pan  is  turned 
upside  down  on  the  table,  after  the  baking,  a  current 
of  air  will  pass  under  and  over  it.  Bake  for  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Do  not  grease  the 
pan.  —  New  Cook-Book  :  Miss  Maria  Parloa.  Estes 
&  Lauriat,  Pubs.     {By  per!) 

Silver  Cake. 

The  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream-tar- 
tar, and  one-half  teaspooonful  of  soda.  Mix  the 
butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  milk,  then  the 
flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  the  cream-tartar, 
then  the  whites  of  the  eggs ;  then  the  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  boiling  water.  —  Presbyterian  Cook-Book. 
Dayton,  0.    (By per.) 

Gold  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups 
of  flour,  one-half  a  cup  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream-tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  ;  flavor  to  taste.  —  Presbyterian 
Cook-Book.     Dayton,  O.     (By  per.) 

Marble  Cake. 

Light  part :  Whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  of 
white  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  four  of  flour ; 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Dark  part :  Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of 


HICKORY-NUT  CAKE.  1 93 

brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  one  of 
Orleans  molasses,  and  four  of  flour ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  all- 
spice, and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves.  Put 
some  of  the  white  mixture  first  into  the  pan,  then 
with  a  large  spoon  drop  in  some  of  the  dark,  alter- 
nating until  all  is  used.  This  will  make  one  large 
and  one  small  cake.  —  Presbyterian  Cook-Book  : 
Miss  J.  A.  E. 

Hickory-Nut  Cake. 

"  One  cup  broken  hickory-nut  meats,  one  and  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour, 
three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk ;  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing-powder, and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten ; 
flavor  with  vanilla.     Add  the  meats  last." 

Watermelon  Cake. 

White  part :  Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder, two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  and  one 
lemon. 

Pink  part :  Made  the  same  as  the  white,  except 
use  pink  sugar  (which  can  be  bought  at  the  confec- 
tioners), and  one-half  pound  of  raisins.  Put  the 
raisins  in  the  sugar.  Put  the  pink  part  all  in  the 
centre  of  the  pan,  and  the  white  on  the  outside. 
—  Presbyterian  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  Graham. 

Pound  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  one  of  flour,  nine  eggs ;  a  piece  of  sal-volatile 
the  size  of  a  pea,  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  water. 


194  jeclairs. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  the  eggs 
beaten  separately,  lastly  the  flour.  —  Presbyterian 
Cook-Book  :  Miss  P.     , 

Eclairs. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  whisk 
into  it  a  quart  of  boiled  milk,  and  add  gradually  one 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Stir 
the  milk  briskly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  while  the  flour 
is  being  added  ;  allow  the  paste  to  stand  on  the  range 
a  few  minutes  to  evaporate  some  of  its  moisture  ;  then 
add  one  egg  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly,  until  the 
paste  shows  signs  of  becoming  sticky  instead  of 
being  smooth. 

No  definite  number  of  eggs  can  be  prescribed  to 
attain  this  result,  as  there  is  so  much  difference 
in  flour ;  but  from  five  to  seven  will  be  sufficient  to 
produce  the  desired  consistency.  Put  the  paste  in 
a  funnel-shaped  bag,  having  a  tin  tube  in  the  small 
end,  and  squeeze  it  out  on  a  buttered  pan,  making 
the  eclair  three  or  four  inches  long.  Then  bake 
these  forms  of  light  paste  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

Prepare  a  cream  as  follows  :  Put  two  quarts  of 
milk  on  the  range,  and  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Put  together  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  four  eggs,  and  one  vanilla-bean ;  beat 
thoroughly ;  when  the  milk  boils,  add  it  to  the  flour 
and  eggs,  and  whisk  lively.  Set  the  mixture  on  the 
range  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  into  a  bowl 
to  become  cold.  When  cold,  stir  into  this  cream  a 
pint  of  whipped  cream. 

Cut  the  eclairs  on  the  side,  and  fill  them  with  the 
cream.    They  may  be  served  plain  or  with  a  covering" 


LAD  Y-FWGERS.  K)t, 

of  chocolate,  icing,  or  coffee  fondant.  —  Puddings 
and  Dainty  Desserts  :  Thomas  J.  Murrey.  White, 
Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Lady- Fingers. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  milk,  one  egg, 
one  teaspoon  cream-tartar,  three  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  nutmeg,  one  even  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  with  flour  to  roll  out  thin,  sprinkle  powdered 

sugar  over,  and  cut  in  long  thin  strips.    Bake  quickly. 

—  The  Peerless  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln. 

{By  per.) 

Sponge  Cake.     No.   i. 

"  One  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one- 
third  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  and  thop 
oughly ;  add  the  whites  last.      Mix,  and  bake  in  a 

hot  oven." 

Sponge  Cake.     No.  2. 

"  One  teacup  of  flour,  one  of  pulverized  sugar,  tea- 
spoonful of  baking-powder,  three  eggs  well  beaten ; 
flavor  with  essence." 

Dried-Apple  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  dried  apples,  soak  over  night, 
and  chop ;  add  two  cups  of  molasses,  and  let  it 
simmer  two  hours  ;  when  cold  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  each  of  sour  cream,  sour  milk, 
and  butter ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  four  cups  of 
flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cloves,  and  one  nutmeg.  — Exchange. 


196  JELLY  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Jelly  Fruit  Cake. 

"Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  one-half  of  the  above  mixture  in  two  pans. 
To  the  remainder  add  one  teaspoonful  molasses,  one 
cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants,  and  piece  of 
citron  chopped  fine.  Bake  in  two  tins.  Put  the 
four  layers  together  alternately  with  frosting  and 
jelly." 

Jelly  for  Cake. 

"  One  quart  of  cranberries,  and  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar.  Cook  as  for  table  use ;  then  strain  through 
sieve,  and  let  jelly." 

Black  Cake. 

One  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  beaten  to  a 
cream  ;  stir  in  twelve  eggs,  beaten  well ;  sift  in  one 
pound  flour;  add  three  pounds  stoned  raisins,  three 
pounds  cleaned  currants,  five  nutmegs,  one-half  ounce 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  pound  citron 
cut  in  small  thin  slices ;  these  must  be  well  mixed ; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  improves  by  keep- 
ing. —  Peterson 's  Magazine.     (By  per.) 

Cocoanut  Cakes. 

"  Half  pound  of  pounded  sugar  to  a  large  cocoanut 
grated,  put  into  a  preserving-pan  till  the  sugar  melts. 
Form  into  cakes  ;  put  on  white  paper.  They  should 
be  well  baked  in  a  very  cool .  oven,  and  when  cooked 
ought  to  be  pure  white." 


MACAROONS.  1 97 

Macaroons. 

"  Blanch  and  beat  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
in  a  mortar  with  a  spoonful  of  water  till  quite  fine, 
gradually  adding  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  whisked 
or  beaten  to  a  froth ;  then  mix  in  half  a  pound  of 
loaf-sugar  finely  powdered.  Spread  sheets  of  white 
paper  on  your  baking-tin,  and  over  that  the  proper 
wafer-paper.  Lay  the  paste  on  it  in  pieces  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  sift  fine  sugar  over.  Bake 
carefully  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  when  cold 
cut  the  wafer-paper  round.  If  you  choose,  you  can 
lay  two  or  three  almond-strips  on  the  top  of  each 
cake  as  they  begin  to  bake." 

Dents  de  Loup  Biscuit. 

Fold  two  sheets  of  paper  lengthwise  like  a  fan, 
then  double  it,  butter  the  paper,  and  spread  it  open. 
Break  into  a  pan  two  eggs,  and  mix  with  them  four 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  two  of  flour,  and  the 
grated  rinds  of  two  lemons  ;  and  when  these  are  well 
mixed  together,  add  a  quarter  pound  of  melted  but- 
ter. Pour  a  spoonful  of  this  preparation  on  the  edge 
of  the  paper,  guiding  it  along  the  folds  with  your  fin- 
ger ;  take  another  spoonful,  and  do  the  same,  leaving 
a  space  between  the  folds,  that  they  may  not  touch 
in  baking.  Sprinkle  them  with  sugared  anise-seed, 
or  any  other  spice  preferred,  and  bake  them  in  a 
well-heated  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  out, 
shake  them  from  the  paper  carefully,  that  they  may 
not  break." 


198  DOMINOES. 

Dominoes. 

Have  any  kind  of  sponge-cake,  baked  in  a  rather 
thin  sheet.  Cut  this  into  small,  oblong  pieces,  the 
shape  of  a  domino.  Frost  the  top  and  sides  of  them. 
When  the  frosting  is  hard,  draw  the  black  lines,  and 
make  the  dots,  with  a  small  brush  that  has  been 
dipped  in  melted  chocolate.  —  New  Cook-Book  : 
Miss  Maria  Parloa.  Estes  &  Lauriat,  Pubs.  {By 
per) 

Bachelor  Buttons. 

These  delicious  little  cakes  are  prepared  by  rub- 
bing two  ounces  of  butter  into  five  ounces  of  flour ; 
add  five  ounces  of  white  sugar  ;  beat  an  egg  with 
half  the  sugar,  then  put  it  to  the  other  ingredients ; 
add  almond  flavoring  according  to  taste.  Roll  them 
in  the  hand  about  the  size  of  a  large  nut,  sprinkle 
them  with  white  sugar,  and  place  them  on  tins  with 
buttered  paper.  They  should  be  slightly  baked.  — 
Godey  's  Lady 's  Book.     {By  per.) 

Maids  of  Honor. 

Make  some  new  milk  lukewarm,  then  put  in  a 
spoonful  of  rennet,  and  stir  it  well  through  a  cheese- 
cloth to  get  rid  of  the  whey ;  to  half  a  pound  of  the 
curd  put  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
well ;  line  patty-pans  with  a  puff  paste,  fill  them  with 
the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  cheese- 
cakes may  be  flavored  with  lemon  if  desired.  — Peter- 
son s  Magazine.     {By  per) 


BOW-KNOTS.  199 

Bow-Knots. 

Cut  thin  puff-paste  into  half-inch  strips,  and  shape 
them  on  the  baking-pan  into  the  form  of  a  double 
bow-knot.  When  baked,  put  jelly  on  each  loop  of 
the  bow.  —  Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln. 
Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     {By  per) 

Cupid's  Wells. 

Cut  the  rounds  of  puff-paste  of  three  or  four  dif- 
ferent sizes  ;  use  the  largest  one  for  the  bottom,  and 
cut  the  centres  from  the  others,  leaving  the  rims  of 
different  widths,  and  put  them  on  the  whole  round, 
with  the  narrowest  at  the  top.  Bake,  and  fill  with 
jelly. — The  Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lin- 
coln.    Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Rich  Bride-Cake. 

Take  four  pounds  of  fine  flour,  dry  it ;  four  pounds 
of  sweet,  fresh  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream ;  and  two 
pounds  of  white  sugar ;  add  six  eggs  to  every  pound 
of  flour ;  mace  and  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce  each, 
pound  them  fine.  Wash  through  several  waters,  and 
pick  clean,  four  pounds  of  currants ;  spread  them  on 
a  thickly  folded  cloth  to  dry;  stone  and  chop  four 
pounds  of  raisins,  cut  two  pounds  of  citron  in  slices 
of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness,  and  chop  or  cut  in 
slices  one  pound  of  almonds.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  the  sugar  to  a  smooth  paste ;  beat  the  but- 
ter and  flour  together,  and  add  them  to  the  yolks  and 
sugar ;  and,  lastly,  add  the  spices,  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  high  froth.  Beat  the  cake  mix- 
ture well  together ;  then  stir  into  it,  by  degrees,  the 


200  TWELFTH-NIGHT  CAKE. 

currants,  citron,  raisins,  and  almonds.  Butter  the 
pans,  line  them  with  paper,  and  put  the  mixture  two 
inches  deep  in  each.  Bake  according  to  the  depth 
of  the  cakes,  three  or  four  hours,  in  a  moderate 
oven.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     {By per.  Ptib.) 

Twelfth-Night  Cake. 

Take  one  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  and  a 
half  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  whites 
of  three,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  of 
orange-extract,  one  pea,  one  bean,  one  clove. 

In  making  cake,  as  in  every  thing  else,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  have  every  thing  ready.  Have  a  round  pan 
with  a  tube  in  the  middle.  Take  sheets  of  unglazed 
white,  paper,  and  butter  them  ;  cut  a  hole  for  the 
tube,  and  place  in  the  pan,  lining  it  thoroughly. 
When  the  cake  is  done,  it  can  be  lifted  out  by  this 
paper.  Have  butter,  milk,  and  flour  measured  out, 
and  eggs  broken  and  separated.  Mix  the  baking- 
powder  into  the  flour. 

Then,  in  cold  weather  always  fill  the  bowl  in  which 
you  are  to  mix  cake,  with  hot  water ;  let  it  stand  a 
moment,  and  then  pour  out.  This  heats  the  bowl 
enough  to  warm  the  butter,  which  must  not  be  melted. 
Mix  with  your  hand,  or  a  spoon,  as  you  please ;  you 
will  find  it  much  easier  to  mix  with  the  hand. 

Rub  the  butter  to  a  soft  smooth  cream,  and  add  the 
flour  with  the  flavoring  extract  gradually.  Beat  very 
light.  Meanwhile  have  the  eggs  beaten,  the  whites 
first,  and  then  the  yolks.  The  butter  and  sugar  must 
be  rubbed  together  till  very  light.  Use  a  fine  granu- 
lated sugar  for  this.     Add  the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time, 


TWELFTH-NIGHT  CAKE.  201 

and  rub  and  mix  to  keep  it  smooth.  If  the  whole 
cupful  should  be  added  at  once,  the  mixture  would  be 
separated  into  a  whey-like  substance,  and  the  conse- 
quence would  be  a  coarse-grained  cake.  If  inclined 
to  separate,  add  a  little  flour  to  stop  it. 

In  making  cake,  be  sure  to  make  it  as  quickly  as 
possible. 

Add  the  flour,  with  the  baking-powder  in  it,  and 
beat  up  quickly ;  then  the  well-beaten  yolks,  then 
the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Scrape  down  with  a  knife 
from  the  sides  of  the  bowl,  so  there  will  be  no  hard 
lumps  in  the  cake.  Pour  the  dough  into  the  pan, 
and  set  into  the  oven.  Have  a  quick  heat  at  first, 
especially  from  the  bottom.  It  should  rise  so  as  to 
fill  the  pan. 

When  the  cake  is  done,  and  before  it  is  frosted, 
push  into  it  on  one  side  the  pea,  and  on  the  other  the 
bean  and  the  clove.  Mark  with  a  broom-straw,  so 
you  will  remember  where  you  put  these.  Then  ice 
and  decorate  the  loaf. 

When  the  cake  is  cut,  gentlemen  must  be  served 
from  the  side  containing  the  clove  and  bean,  and  the 
ladies  from  the  side  containing  the  pea,  according  to 
the  ancient  custom.  The  clove  represents  the  knave, 
the  bean  is  the  king,  and  the  pea  is  the  queen. 
Those  to  whom  these  fall  in  the  cutting  of  the  cake 
must  assume  the  characters  represented  by  them  for 
the  evening.  This  is  an  ancient  English  custom, 
which  has  been  revived  of  late  years. 

A  wreath  of  angelica  leaves  and  red  cherries  about 
the  edge  is  a  pretty  decoration,  and  in  the  centre 
should  be  placed  a  tiny  Christmas-tree.     Have  little 


202  PLAIN  FROSTING. 

figures  of  a  king,  queen,  and  knave  made  at  a  con- 
fectioner's, and  place  them  on  top  of  the  cake.  — 
Mrs.  Daniell:  (No.  5)  Boston  Cooking  School.  From 
Boston  Globe.      (By  per.) 

Plain  Frosting. 

Place  the  whites  of  one,  two,  or  more  eggs  in  a 
bowl.  Throw  into  them  a  tablespoonful  of  pulver- 
ized white  sugar ;  that  known  as  "  confectioner's  " 
sugar  is  the  best.  Beat  with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding 
sugar  by  the  spoonful,  and  beating  well  between  the 
additions.  It  is  impossible  to  state  the  exact  amount 
of  sugar,  as  the  size  and  freshness  of  eggs  vary  so 
much  ;  but  use  about  one  cupful  of  sugar  for  one 
white  of  an  egg.  If,  when  drawing  the  end  of  a 
knife-blade  through  the  frosting  on  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  it  leaves  a  clean-cut  line,  consider  the  frosting 
sufficiently  beaten. 

It  is  best  to  frost  cake  while  it .  is  warm.  Spread 
first  over  the  cake  a  thin  coating  of  the  frosting,  with 
a  long,  thin  knife.  This  fills  the  pores,  and  the  heat 
of  the  cake  melts  the  sugar,  causing  the  frosting  to 
cling  very  securely.  Next  put  on  with  a  spoon  suffi- 
cient to  cover  the  cake,  spreading  evenly  over  the 
whole  surface.  After  smoothing,  mark  where  it  is 
to  be  cut,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Lemon- 
juice  is  the  nicest  flavoring,  making  the  frosting  light, 
and  may  be  used  to  thin  frosting  which  spreads  too 
stiff.  This  may  be  kept  a  few  days,  if  covered  very 
closely  from  the  air.  — Mrs.  Daniell:  (No.  5)  Boston 
Cooking  School.     From  Bostofi  Globe.     (By  per) 


TO  STONE  RAISINS  EASILY.  2C>3 

To  stone  Raisins  easily. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  letting  them  stand 
a  moment  to  soften,  then  pour  it  off.  The  stones 
may  then  be  easily  pinched  out  at  the  stem  end  by 
giving  an  "  extra  twist  "  to  the  fruit.  —  Public  Ledger, 
Philadelphia. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Whip  one  quart  rich  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
drain  well  on  a  nice  sieve.  To  one  scant  pint  of 
milk  add  six  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  make  very 
»weet ;  flavor  high  with  vanilla.  Cook  over  hot 
water  till  it  is  a  thick  custard.  Soak  one  full  ounce 
Cox's  gelatine  in  a  very  little  water,  and  warm  over 
hot  water.  When  the  custard  is  very  cold,  beat  in 
lightly  the  gelatine  and  the  whipped  cream.  Line 
the  bottom  of  your  mould  with  buttered  paper,  the 
sides  with  sponge-cake  or  lady-fingers  fastened  to- 
gether with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Fill  with  the 
cream ;  put  in  a  cold  place,  or  in  summer  on  ice. 
To  turn  out,  dip  the  mould  for  a  moment  in  hot 
water.  In  draining  the  whipped  cream,  all  that  drips 
through  can  be  re -whipped.  —  The  Every-day  Cook- 
Book  :  Miss  Neill.     {By  per.  Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.). 

Raspberry  Blancmange. 

Three  pints  raspberries,  one  ounce  and  a  half 
gelatine,  one  pint  cream,  one-half  pound  loaf-sugar. 

Put  the  fruit  into  an  enamelled  preserving-pan,  and 
bruise  it  a  little  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  set  the 
pan  on  the  side  of  the  fire  where  the  juice  may  be 
drawn  slowly  from  the  berries.     Have  the  gelatine 


204  FLOATING  ISLAND. 

soaked  for  an  hour  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Then  strain  the  juice  from  the  raspberries,  and  put 
it  into  the  pan  together  with  the  sugar  and  the 
gelatine,  and  let  the  whole  boil  gently  until  the  gela- 
tine is  dissolved.  Add,  very  gradually,  the  cream, 
stirring  it  in  well.  Have  ready  a  dampened  mould, 
pour  the  blancmange  into  it,  and  place  it  on  the  ice. 
When  set,  it  is  ready  to  turn  out  and  serve.  —  The 
Caterer.     {By  per.) 

Floating  Island. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil ;  meanwhile  beat  to 
a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  when  the 
milk  is  just  boiling  put  them  in  it,  stir  once  or  twice, 
and  then  immediately  lift  out.  Use  a  ladle  with 
holes  in,  that  the  milk  may  not  be  taken  out  with  the 
frothed  whites.  Have  ready  the  yolks  well  beaten  ; 
add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  mixed 
smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  and  sweeten  all  to  taste. 
After  removing  the  whites  from  the  milk,  put  in  the 
yolks  and  corn-starch,  and  let  all  just  come  to 
the  boil.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  any  essence  pre- 
ferred. Take  off,  and  pour  in  a  deep  glass  dish,  and 
place  upon  the  top  the  frothed  whites.  —  Miss  Lizzie 
Strohm. 

Lemon  Snow. 

Soak  one  ounce  of  gelatine  (cost  eight  cents)  in 
one  pint  of  cold  water  for  half  an  hour ;  peel  the 
yellow  rind  from  three  lemons  (cost  six  cents),  and 
squeeze  and  strain  their  juice  ;  put  the  rind  and  juice 
of  the  lemons  into  a  saucepan  with  eight  ounces  of 
loaf-sugar  (cost  eight  cents),  and  stir  until  the  sugar 


ORANGE  BASKETS.  205 

and  gelatine  are  quite  dissolved  ;  pour  it  into  a  bowl, 
and  let  it  it  cool,  and  begin  to  grow  firm.  Then  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  (cost,  three  cents),  and  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Pile  by  the  tablespoonful  high  in 
the  centre  of  a  glass  dish.  It  is  pretty  and  delicious, 
and  costs  only  about  twenty-five  cents. — Twenty- 
five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson.     {By  per.) 

Orange  Baskets. 

Cut  as  many  oranges  as  will  be  required,  leaving 
half  the  peel  whole  for  the  baskets,  and  a  strip  half 
an  inch  wide  for  the  handle.  Remove  the  pulp  and 
juice,  and  use  the  juice  in  making  orange-jelly.  Place 
the  baskets  in  a  pan  of  broken  ice  to  keep  upright. 
Fill  with  orange-jelly.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  a 
spoonful  of  tvJiipped  cream  over  the  jelly  in  each 
basket.  Serve  in  a  bed  of  orange  or  laurel  leaves. 
—  The  Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln. 
Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Ambrosia. 

"  Peel  and  cut  up  a  dish  of  oranges,  removing  all 
the  tough  skin  and  seeds.  Cover  a  layer  of  orange 
with  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut,  and  proceed  in  this 
way  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover  the  top  with  the 
sugar  and  cocoanut." 

Ice-Cream,  Lemon  or  Vanilla. 

"  One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  cup  and 
a  half  of  sugar,  flavor  with  large  tablespoonful  es- 
sence of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  cream  to  a 
froth  ;  stir  in  the  milk  and  sugar  thoroughly ;  flavor, 
freeze,  and  pack  for  two  hours." 


206  STRAWBERRY  ICE-CREAM. 

Strawberry  Ice-Cream. 

Sprinkle  two  cups  of  sugar  over  two  quarts  of 
strawberries.  Mash  them,  and  let  them  stand  half 
an  hour,  or  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  and  mean- 
while prepare  the  ice,  and  pack  the  freezer.  Turn 
the  berries  into  a  large  square  of  cheese-cloth,  placed 
over  a  bowl,  and  squeeze  as  long  as  any  juice  or 
pulp  will  come.  Then  empty  the  pulp  and  seeds 
left  in  the  cloth  into  a  pan,  and  pour  on  gradually 
about  a  pint  of  milk ;  mix  it  well  with  the  pulp,  until 
the  pulp  is  separated  from  the  seeds.  Squeeze  again 
until  perfectly  dry.  There  should  be  nothing  left  in 
the  cloth  save  a  ball  of  seeds.  Add  to  the  juice  as 
much  cream  as  you  may  have,  from  one  cup  to  three 
pints,  and  sugar  to  make  it  very  sweet.  Freeze  as 
usual.  After  tasting  this,  you  will  never  want  any 
other  strawberry  ice-cream.  —  The  Peerless  Cook- 
Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.  Redding  &  Co.,  Pubs. 
{By  per.) 

Peach  Ice-Cream. 

"  Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces  one  dozen  peaches, 
or  more  if  desired,  and  boil  them  with  half  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar.  When  reduced  to  a  marmalade,  press 
them  through  a  fine  sieve.  When  cool  add  one  pint 
of  cream,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  to  give  a 
deeper  peach-color.  Freeze.  Serve  with  halves  or 
quarters  of  fresh  peaches  half  frozen  around  the 
cream." 

Coffee  Cream. 

Take  very  rich  cream,  beat  it  well,  and  sweeten 
very  sweet  with  powdered  loaf-sugar.     Prepare  in  the 


CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM.  207 

best  manner  a  decoction  of  very  strong  coffee  ;  it 
must  be  very  clear ;  stir  sufficient  into  the  cream  to 
flavor  it  highly,  and  freeze  ;  it  will  be  a  darkish  color, 
but  is  nighly  esteemed  by  gentlemen.  —  Peterson 's 
Magazine.     {By  per. ) 

Chocolate  Ice-Cream. 

Scrape  up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Baker's  choco- 
late, and  dissolve  it  in  a  little  water ;  then  add  to  it 
one  quart  of  fresh  milk,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
stewpan  to  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Make  a  paste 
of  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  cold  milk  ;  stir  it  into  the  chocolate,  and  boil 
until  it  has  well  thickened,  which  should  be  in  about 
fifteen  minutes ;  add  two  teacupfuls  of  white  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla-extract ;  when  well 
thickened,  remove  the  chocolate  from  the  fire,  and 
add  it  to  a  quart  of  rich  cream.  Freeze  as  usual.  — 
Virginia  Cookery-Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith. 
{By  per.)     Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs. 

Tutti  Frutti. 

One  gallon  of  cream,  one  can  of  peaches,  one  can 
of  apricots,  six  lemons,  six  oranges,  twelve  bananas. 
Chop  the  peaches  and  apricots  ;  add  the  juice  of  the 
lemons  and  oranges,  with  the  pulp  of  three  of  each ; 
whip  the  cream  thoroughly,  having  first  sweetened 
it  to  your  taste,  and  stir  into  the  fruit.  Two  pounds 
will  probably  be  about  the  quantity  of  sugar  required. 
Freeze  all  together  to  a  paste  ;  then  add  the  bananas, 
cutting  them  up  into  quarter-inch  slices  with  a  silver 
knife ;  stir  them  in  lightly  with  a  silver  spoon,  and 


208  SALTED   ALMONDS. 

complete  the  freezing.  This  quantity  makes  two  gal- 
lons when  frozen. — Virginia  Cookery-Book  :  Mrs. 
Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs.  (By 
per.) 

Salted  Almonds. 

Shell  the  almonds,  and  blanch  by  throwing  them 
into  boiling  water,  and  leaving  them  there,  covered, 
for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  skins  will  slip  off  easily. 
Skin,  and  spread  them  out  to  dry  for  several  hours. 
Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  into  a  hot  dripping-pan, 
and  as  it  warms  stir  the  almonds  over  and  over  in  it 
to  coat  them  with  the  butter.  Set  in  the  oven,  and 
roast,  stirring  them  often  until  they  begin  to  color 
faintly.  Take  them  out,  shake  in  a  colander  to  rid 
of  grease,  spread  on  a  dish,  and  strew  with  fine  dry 
salt,  stirring  them  about  that  each  nut  may  have  its 
share.  Eat  cold.  They  are  charmingly  appetizing. 
Avoid  the  dangers  of  getting  the  almonds  too  brown, 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  of  putting  them  into  the  oven 
before  they  are  dry  enough.  —  Brooklyn  Times. 

After-Dinner  Croutons. 

The  hard  water-crackers  being  expensive  in  com- 
parison with  other  crackers,  I  have  adopted  the 
crispy  croiUons  as  a  substitute,  and  find  them  very 
acceptable.  Cut  sandwich-bread  into  slices  one- 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  each  slice  into  four 
small  triangles  ;  dry  them  in  the  oven  slowly  until 
they  assume  a  delicate  brownish  tint,  then  serve 
either  hot  or  cold.  A  nice  way  to  serve  them  is  to 
spread  a  paste  of  part  butter  and  part  rich  creamy 


CANDIED    CHERRIES.  2O9 

cheese,  to  which  may  be  added  a  very  little  minced 
parsley.  —  Puddings  and  Dainty  Desserts  :  Thomas 
J.  Murrey.      White,  Stokes,  &  Allen,  Pubs. 

Candied  Cherries. 

Choose  a  pound  of  perfectly  sound,  ripe  cherries 
(cost  ten  cents),  with  the  stalks  and  an  occasional 
leaf  attached ;  wipe  them  with  a  clean,  dry,  soft  cloth ; 
dip  the  leaves  and  stems,  but  not  the  fruit,  into  boil- 
ing vinegar,  and  set  them,  with  the  cherries  upward, 
in  a  cardboard  perforated  with  holes  to  admit  the 
stems,  until  the  vinegar  dries.  Meantime,  boil  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  (cost  about  fifteen  cents)  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  using  a  thick,  porcelain- 
lined  saucepan  or  copper  sugar-boiler;  skim  until 
perfectly  clear,  and  test  in  the  following  way :  Dip 
the  thumb  and  forefinger  into  cold  water,  and  then 
quickly  into  the  boiling  sugar,  withdrawing  it  in- 
stantly ;  press  the  fingers  together,  and  then  draw 
them  apart :  if  the  sugar  forms  a  little  thread  between 
them,  it  is  ready  to  use  ;  if  it  does  not,  boil  a  few 
minutes  longer,  and  test  again.  When  it  is  ready, 
dip  the  leaves  and  branches  into  it,  and  dry  them  in 
the  cardboard  frame  as  directed  above.  Keep  the 
sugar  at  the  boiling-point,  and  as  soon  as  it  forms 
a  clear,  brittle  thread  between  the  fingers  when 
tested  as  above,  dip  the  entire  fruit  into  it,  moving 
the  cherries  around  so  that  the  sugar  completely 
covers  them  ;  and  dry  them,  placed  as  above  in  the 
cardboard  frame,  in  the  mouth  of  a  cool  oven.  — 
Twenty-five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson. 
O.  Judd  Co.,  Pubs.     (By  per) 


2IO  ICED   CURRANTS. 

Iced  Currants. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  (cost  one  cent)  to  a 
stiff  froth,  mix  it  with  three  dessertspoonfuls  of  cold 
water ;  dip  into  it  carefully  some  perfect  bunches  of 
ripe  red  and  white  currants,  which  can  be  bought 
in  season  for  ten  cents  a  pound ;  drain  each  bunch 
a  moment,  and  then  dust  it  well  with  powdered 
sugar ;  lay  each  bunch  carefully  upon  a  large  sheet 
of  white  paper,  so  that  there  is  plenty  of  room  be- 
tween the  bunches,  and  set  them  in  a  cool,  airy  place 
for  five  hours.  The  sugar  will  partly  crystallize  upon 
the  fruit,  and  the  effect  will  be  very  pretty.  The 
cost  of  a  good-sized  dish  will  be  about  fifteen  cents. 
Twenty-five-Cent  Dinners  :  Miss  Juliet  Corson. 
O.  Judd  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per) 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

Take  as  many  oranges  as  will  be  necessary,  cut 
them  in  half,  and  press  the  juice  from  them  ;  take 
the  pulp  carefully  from  the  rind,  and  put  it  in  a  bowl, 
pour  a  little  boiling  water  on  it,  stir  it  well,  and  strain 
it  through  a  sieve ;  mix  this  with  the  orange-juice, 
and  stir  in  as  much  sugar  as  will  make  a  rich  sirup. 
If  the  oranges  are  fine,  rub  some  of  the  sugar  on  the 
peel  to  extract  the  essence.  Freeze  it  like  ice- 
cream. —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     (By per) 

Grape  Sherbet. 

Lay  a  square  of  cheese-cloth  over  a  bowl ;  put  in 
a  pound  of  ripe  Concord  grapes  ;  mash  very  thor- 
oughly with  a  wooden  masher.     Squeeze  out  all  the 


TO  MAKE    TEA.  211 

juice ;  add  an  equal  amount  of  cold  water,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon,  and  sugar  to  make  it  very  sweet. 
Freeze  as  usual.  — The  Peerless  Cook-Book  :  Mrs. 
D.  A.  Lincoln.     Redding  &  Co.,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

To  make  Tea. 

Put  the  tea  in  a  perfectly  clean  and  dry  teapot  ten 
minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  required ; 
warm  both  the  pot  and  the  tea  by  placing  them  in 
the  oven  or  before  the  fire ;  then  fill  the  teapot  with 
boiling  water,  allow  it  to  stand  for  five  minutes,  and 
it  is  ready.  —  Sayer. 

"  This  method  improves  the  fragrance  of  the  tea 
very  considerably,  slightly  but  pleasantly  altering 
the  flavor ;  it  appears  to  act  by  removing  any  trace 
of  moisture  or  dampness  from  the  tea,  and  by  devel- 
oping the  aromatic  principle." 

Iced  Tea. 

Make  the  tea  in  the  usual  way ;  do  not  let  it  get 
cold  on  the  leaves,  but  strain  it  off  at  the  end  of  ten 
minutes  after  the  boiling  water  is  poured  on,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  In  using  it,  put  two  or  three  lumps  of 
sugar  in  a  glass,  half  fill  it  with  broken  ice,  pour  in 
the  tea,  and  stir  rapidly  until  the  sugar  melts.  It  is 
a  delicious  and  refreshing  beverage. — Marion  Har- 
land.      The  Post,   Washington,  D.C.     (By  per.) 

To  boil  Coffee. 

Grind  a  teacupful  of  coffee  in  the  evening,  and, 
having  first  seen  that  your  coffee-pot  has  been  thor- 
oughly cleansed  and  scalded,  put  in  your  ground  coffee, 


212  CHOCOLATE. 

with  a  little  white  of  egg  and  a  crushed  egg-shell  if  it 
has  not  been  already  glazed  with  egg,  and  pour  over 
it  three  pints  of  fresh,  cold  spring  water.  Cover  up, 
excluding  every  particle  of  air ;  and  in  the  morning, 
about  half  an  hour  before  breakfast,  set  the  pot  on 
the  back  part  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil 
only  just  when  you  are  ready  to  send  it  to  the  table. 
By  this  plan  of  infusion  all  of  the  virtue  in  the 
coffee  seems  to  be  brought  out.  It  is  an  admirable 
method.  —  Virginia  Cookery-Book:  Mrs.  Mary 
Stuart  Smith.     Harper  &  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Chocolate. 

Scrape  fine  an  ounce  (one  of  the  small  squares)  of 
Baker's  or  any  other  plain  chocolate.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  put  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Stir  over  a  hot 
fire  for  a  minute  or  two,  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth 
and  glossy,  and  then  stir  it  all  into  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  serve  at  once.  If  the  chocolate  is  wanted 
richer,  take  twice  as  much  chocolate,  sugar,  and 
water.  Made  in  this  way,  chocolate  is  perfectly 
smooth,  and  free  from  oily  particles.  If  it  is  allowed 
to  boil  after  the  chocolate  is  added  to  the  milk,  it 
becomes  oily,  and  loses  its  fine  flavor.  —  New  Cook- 
Book  :  Miss  Maria  Parloa.  Estes  &  Lauriat,  Pubs. 
(By  per.) 


CHAPTER    XVII. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


CONFECTIONERY. 

JESSIE'S    BARGAINS. 

When  Uncle  Feodorardo  left  this  world  of  woes,  —  which  doubt-, 
less  he  looks  back  upon  with  a  sight  that  pierces  the  secret  of  the 
storms  and  showers  and  sunshine  of  it,  —  he  left  a  great  gap  in  it  for 
all  the  children.  What  a  blessing  he  was  to  child-kind,  to  be  sure! 
And  what  a  peculiar  blessing  to  one  mite  out  of  that  kind,  Jessie  by 
name  ! 

How  this  little  white  mite  would  have  kept  alive  at  all,  at  one  time,_ 
instead  of  dissolving  back  into  her  elements,  if  Uncle  Feodorardo  had 
not  taken  her  in  hand,  is  one  of  those  dark  questions  to  be  worked  out 
with  chemical  equations,  lie  reminded  you,  in  the  process,  of  those 
Japanese  jugglers  who,  with  their  fans,  keep  butterflies  fluttering  on 
the  air  around  them,  which,  if  the  fan  ceased  and  they  fell  to  the 
ground,  would  be  merely  the  original  atoms  of  torn  white  paper  again. 
For  the  changeling  was  so  slight  a  thing  that  you  could  see  the  sun 
shine  through  her  hand,  and  they  had  threatened  to  hang  her  up  in 
the  window  for  a  transparency;  and  she  was  finally  allowed  to  run 
wild,  in  hopes  that  she  might  lose  her  blanched,  house-plant  look,  and 
get  a  little  of  the  vigor  of  the  out-door  weeds. 

It  was  with  this  end  in  view  that  Uncle  Feodorardo,  —  no  uncle  of 
hers,  by  the  by,  any  more  than  of  all  the  little  people  in  town,  but  an 
exile  who  had  been  adopted  into  every  body's  heart  in  the  new  home, 
—  would  entice  the  flaxen-haired  piece  of  mischief  into  his  garden 
'.cross  the  way,  and,  giving  her  a  little  spade,  would  set  her  to  dig- 
ging anywhere  in  the  warm  brown  earth.  "  She  is  our  mother,"  said 
Uncle  Feodorardo.  "  We  are  made  of  her  dust.  When  we  are  peak- 
ing, her  touch  is  our  best  cure."  He  offered  Jessie  wages  for  the  work 
she  was  to  do  with  her  little  spade,  —  wages  quite  as  large  as  Uncle 
Feodorardo  could  afford,  for  he  earned  his  own  livelihood  from  his 
garden  ;  and,  at  any  rate,  quite  the  market-value  of  the  work  performed, 
—  wages  of  a  penny  an  hour,  and  which  she  was  to  claim  when  she 
could  conscientiously  say  she  had  delved  sixty  minutes.  Sometimes  it 
took  Jessie  a  whole  week  before  she  could  honestly  earn  her  penny, 
for  she  had  a  thousand  things  in  that  garden  to  divert  her,  since  Nature 
arid  Feodorardo  together  conspired  to  keep  her  active  when  she  could 
be  drinking  in  health  from  all  the  winds  that  blew  about  her.  .  .  . 

But  when  at  last  the  penny  was  hers,  no  more  garden-work,  or  play 
either,  for  that  day.  It  was  business,  serious  business.  She  hied 
away  with  it  to  the  corner  grocery ;  and  it  was  a  weary  forenoon  to 
the  wretched  clerk  behind  the  counter  there,  who  must  'have  grown 
to  dread  the  sight  of  that  little  figure,  if  he  did  not  regard  its  approach 
as  an  expiation  of  his  own  peccadilloes  among  the  cakes  and  sweet- 

215 


2l6  JESSIE'S  BAA' GAINS. 

meats.  Jessie  was  not  like  those  good  children  who  put  their  pennies 
in  the  missionary-box.  She  felt,  perhaps,  that  there  was  a  little  hea- 
then here  at  home  that  wanted  the  penny;  and  though  she  was  any 
thing  but  starved,  yet,  except  on  the  rare  occasions  when  she  bought  a 
tiny  china  baby  as  naked  as  a  pappoose,  she  always  spent  that  penny  for 
her  palate.  But  stingy  with  her  bargain,  —  bargain  it  was  always,  —  a 
jury  of  her  peers  could  not  have  declared  her;  for  though  she  quar- 
relled and  scuffled  with  her  sisters,  in  the  morning,  for  the  wash-basin 
or  the  towels,  she  always  gave  them  a  bit  of  her  macaroon,  or  her  tart, 
or  her  plum,  in  the  afternoon,  —  crying  a  little  bit  if  they  took  too  big 
a  bite. 

She  would  begin  her  bargaining  by  pricing  every  thing  in  all  the 
jars  deliberately,  until  at  last  the  half-distracted  clerk  would  cry, 
"  Now  you  know  the  price  of  every  thing  in  this  shop,  see  here  !  And 
you  can  buy,  or  you  can  let  it  alone.  The  gibraltars  are  a  cent  apiece, 
and  so  are  the  barley-sugar  sticks,  and  the  apples,  and  the  ginger-snaps. 
And  we  don't  sell  white  grapes  by  the  cent's  worth,  nor  guava-jelly. 
And  I  sha'n't  let  you  have  a  quince  anyway,  because  it  would  give 
you  a  colic,  and  your  ma  wouldn't  like  it ;  and,  besides,  quinces  are 
two  cents  this  year." 

"How  much  is  jujube-paste  ?"  Jessie  would  ask  then,  oblivious  of 
the  slight  to  her  dignity  involved  in  the  reference  to  colic. 

"  Well,  you  can  have  a  stick  of  that  for  a  cent." 

"I  don't  know  as  I  like  jujube-paste,"  hesitatingly,  and  climbing 
higher  with  her  dangerous  elbows  on  the  show-case. 

"Then  what  did  you  ask  about  it  for?"  the  clerk  would  say  tartly. 
"We  have  it  in  all  flavors,"  he  would  add,  from  mere  habit.  "Then 
there's  Jenny  Lind  chewing-gum,"  in  a  tone  half-questioning,  half-ad- 
vising. 

"  I  like  real  gum  better  than  that,"  is  the  reply. 

"  We're  all  out  of  spruce,"  teetering  back  and  forth  on  his  heels 
and  toes. 

"  Haven't  you  any  gum-drops  ?  "  Jessie  would  ask. 

"  Oh,  yes,  plenty  of  those,"  snatching  at  relief. 

"  How  many  "  — 

"  Six  for  a  cent,"  plainly  and  emphatically. 

"  I  don't  think  that's  quite  enough,"  gently,  but  full  as  decidedly. 

"  Very  well.  That's  the  best  we  can  do  for  you,"  taking  out  his 
pocket-comb  now,  and  soothing  his  mind  by  its  use. 

"  Do  you  ever  sell  a  piece  of  an  apple  ?" 

"  Good  gracious  !  I'll  give  you  a  bite,"  cries  the  clerk  desper- 
ately. 

"  Oh,  no,"  she  answers  sweetly ;  "  I  don't  want  you  to  give  me  any 
thing.     I'm  not  begging,  I'm  buying,"  grand  as  a  little  archduchess. 

"  Well,  then,  what  will  you  have  ? "  he  demands,  leaning  over  the 
counter  in  a  state  of  exhaustion. 

"  I  suppose,  though,  you  don't  throw  any  thing  in  when  people 
buy  ? "  she  asks,  slightly  modifying  her  grandeur,  as  even  archduch- 
esses may. 

"  Not  your  sort,"  says  this  Bayard  of  the  boxes. 

"  I  didn't  ask  you  to  throw  any  thing  in,"  indignantly.  "  I  said  I 
supposed  you  didn't." 


BARLEY  SUGAR.  21 7 

"Come,  time's  up !"  cries  her  victim  as  a  last  resort.  "  What'll 
you  take?     I'm  going  to  close,  and  go  home  to  dinner." 

"  I  guess,  then,  I'll  take  a  cocoanut-cakc.     You  said  they  were  "  — 

"  A  cent  apiece.  Yes,"  with  satisfaction  at  the  prospect.  And 
then,  as  Jessie  lays  her  little  hand  on  the  largest  one,  he  is  obliged  to 
remark,  "  But  that  size  is  three  cents." 

Sometimes  Jessie  withdrew  with  her  cent  at  this  point,  outraged 
and  insulted,  and  made  no  purchase  all  that  clay.  But  she  carried  the 
cent  to  bed  with  her  ;  her  first  thought  on  waking  in  the  morning  was 
concerning  it ;  her  first  act  was  to  feel  for  it;  it  lay  beside  her  break- 
fast-plate ;  and  no  sooner  was  she  her  own  mistress  again  than  she 
returned,  bright  and  early,  to  her  charge,  andj-enewed  her  haggling. — 
Jessie:  Mrs.  Harriet  Prescott  Spofford.     {By per.) 


Barley  Sugar. 

One  pint  of    very  strong  barley-water,   strained ; 

two    pounds    of   rock -candy;   lemon-juice   to   taste. 

Boil  without  stirring ;  then  pour  into  buttered  pans, 

and  score  into  long  flat  sticks.     It   is  excellent.  — 

The  Unrivalled   Cook-Book.     (By  per.  Harper  & 

Brothers.) 

Sugar  a  la  Creme. 

Take  a  pound  of  maple-sugar,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and 
put  the  pan  into  another  of  boiling  water,  until  it 
melts  into  a  sirup.  Then  put  in  a  half-teacupful  of 
cream,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  it  out  into  a 
well-buttered  dish  ;  cut  it  into  squares  while  cooling. 
Public  Ledger,  Philadelphia.     (By  per.) 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

Equal  quantities  of  white  sugar  and  grated  cocoa- 
nut  ;  add  enough  milk  of  the  cocoanut  to  moisten 
the  sugar,  and  then  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil,  stirring 
almost  constantly.  When  the  candy  begins  to  return 
to  sugar,  stir  in  the  cocoanut  as  quickly  as  possible, 
and  in  a  minute  or  two  spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool, 


21 8  RED   OR  PINK  COLORING. 

marking  it  off  in  squares  to  cut  after  it  hardens  suffi- 
ciently. If  you  would  like  a  portion  pink,  stir  a  little 
pokeberry-jelly  into  some  of  the  candy  while  hot, 
until  it  has  acquired  the  tint  you  like.  — Virginia 
Cookery-Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper 
&  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Red  or  Pink  Coloring. 
Gather  pokeberries  just  before  frost  falls  ;  express 
the  juice,  and  let  it  drip  clear  through  a  flannel  or 
thin  muslin  bag;  to  one  pint  of  juice  allow  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar ;  boil  rapidly 
together  for  twent}^  minutes,  and  put  away  in  a  small 
glass  jar  for  use.  This  quantity  will  last  an  ordinary 
family  for  a  whole  year,  and  be  found  very  useful 
in  ornamental  cookery. — Virginia  Cookery-Book: 
Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.      Harper  &  Brothers,  Puds. 

(By  per.) 

Ginger  or  Cinnamon  Tablet. 

"  Melt  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  or  sugar-candy  with 
a  little  water  over  the  fire,  and  put  in  one  ounce 
of  pounded  ginger  or  cinnamon,  and  keep  stirring  it 
till  it  begins  to  rise  into  a  froth,  then  pour  into  a  dish 
which  has  been  first  rubbed  with  a  little  butter ;  be- 
fore it  hardens,  cut  it  into  the  size  and  shape  you 
approve  of  for  table." 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
Take  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  put  it  to  boil  in 
a  porcelain  kettle  ;  scrape  down  a  square  and  a  half 
of  chocolate,  put  it  into  a  very  clean  tin  cup,  and  set 
it  on  the  top  of  a  stove  till  it  becomes  soft.  Let  the 
milk  boil  up  twice,  then  add  gradually  the  chocolate, 


VANILLA    TOFFEE.  2IO, 

and  stir  both  over  the  fire  till  thoroughly  mixed  and 
free  from  lumps.  Stir  in  half  a  pint  of  the  best 
white  sugar  powdered,  and  four  large  tablespoonfuls 
of  molasses.  Let  the  whole  boil  fast  and  constantly 
(so  as  to  bubble),  for  at  least  one  hour  or  more,  till 
it  is  nearly  as  stiff  as  mush.  When  all  is  clone,  add 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  vanilla,  and  transfer 
the  mixture  to  shallow  tin  pans  slightly  greased  with 
very  nice  sweet  oil.  Set  it  on  ice,  or  in  a  very  cool 
place,  and,  while  yet  soft,  mark  it  deeply  in  squares 
with  a  very  sharp  knife.  When  quite  hard,  cut  the 
squares  apart.  —  Godey  's  Lady 's  Book.    (By per.  Pub.) 

Vanilla  Toffee. 

Put  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  at  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan,  then  put  in  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Leave  it  to  soak  one 
night.  If  it  looks  too  dry  in  the  morning,  add  a 
little  more  vinegar.  Then  put  it  on  the  fire,  and 
boil,  not  stirring  it.  When  you  think  it  likely  to  be 
done,  stick  a  knife  into  the  middle  of  it,  and  drop  it 
into  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  if  it  bites  crisp  it  is 
clone.  Just  before  it  is  done,  drop  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  vanilla.  Then  pour  the  toffee  thinly 
all  over  a  buttered  tin,  and  it  will  soon  be  cold.  — 
Peterson 's  Magazine.     (By  per) 

Stuffed  Dates. 

Remove  the  stones  from  a  pound  of  fine  dates 
(cost  ten  cents),  by  cutting  them  open  at  one  side. 
Remove  the  shells  and  skins  from  half  a  pound  of 
almonds  (cost  ten  cents) ;  the  skins  can  easily  be 
rubbed    off   by  first    pouring   boiling  water   on    the 


220  CREAMED    WALNUTS. 

almond  kernels ;  replace  the  date-stones  with  the 
almonds,  and  arrange  the  dates  neatly  on  a  shallow 
dish ;  dust  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and 
keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place  till  ready  to  use.  The 
dish  will  cost  twenty-three  cents.  —  Twenty-five- 
Cent  Dinners:  Miss  Juliet  Corson.     {By  per) 

Creamed  Walnuts. 

The  white  of  one  egg,  and  an  equal  amount  of  cold 
water,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat 
until  thoroughly  mixed ;  then  beat  in  confectioner's 
sugar,  sifted,  until  the  dough  is  stiff  enough  to 
mould.  Break  off  pieces  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  roll 
them  till  smooth  and  round.  Press  the  halved  wal- 
nut-meats on  each  side,  letting  the  cream  show 
slightly  between  the  meats.  One  egg  will  require 
about  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar.  —  The  Peer- 
less Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.     (By  per) 

Walnut  Taffy. 
Boil  half  a  pint  of  molasses  until  it  crisps  when 
dropped  into  water ;  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  walnut- 
kernels,  and  let  it  cook  about  ten  minutes  on  a  slow 
fire,  stirring  constantly.  Then  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  stirring  it  thoroughly  in.  Pour 
out  into  a  well-greased  pan.  —  Miss  Lulie  StroJim. 

Peanut  Candy. 
"Boil  together  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  gill  of 
brown  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  butter.  When  this 
is  growing  thick,  add  one  pint  of  parched  and  shelled 
peanuts  ;  then  boil  the  whole  fifteen  minutes,  and 
pour  it  into  a  shallow  dish  to  cool  and  harden." 


CHAPTER    XVIII. 


COOKERY    FOR   THE   SICK. 


COOKERY  FOR    THE   SICK. 

Wagtail  to  Bobtail.  —  "  By  the  by,  Bobtail,  I  ought  to  apologize 
for  not  having  congratulated  you  on  the  fortune  that  you  have  just 
stepped  into." 

Bobtail.  —  "  That  my  precious  Betsy  has  just  stepped  into,  you  mean." 

Wagtail.  —  "  True  ;  rather  odd,  eh  ?  " 

Bobtail.  —  "  Odd  ! " 

Wagtail.  —  "  Queer  —  umph !  " 

Bobtail.  —  "  Queer  —  what  ?  " 

Wagtail.  —  "  Why,  that  old  Brown,  who  was  no  sort  of  relation  to 
Mrs.  Bobtail,  should  have  left  the  money  to  her,  and  not  to  you. 
Eh,  eh?" 

Bobtail.  — "  Not  at  all  odd,  Mr.  Wagtail ;  neither  is  it  queer,  Mr. 
Wagtail !  /  never  paid  Brown  any  attention  :  my  precious  Betsy  did. 
/  never  took  him  up  a  basin  of  broth,  or  gruel,  or  arrowroot,  in  all 
my  life.  Now,  my  precious  Betsy  was  constantly  brothing  him,  and 
gruelling  him,  and  arrow-rooting  him,  —  consequently  Brown,  very 
properly,  appreciated  her  kindness  and  attentions."  —  My  Precious 
Betsy  :  J.  M.  Morton. 


Mutton  Broth. 

Boil  a  piece  of  mutton  until  it  will  fall  from  the 
bone  ;  then  strain  the  broth,  and  let  it  get  cold,  so 
that  the  fat  will  rise,  which  must  be  taken  off ;  then 
warm  the  liquor,  and  put  in  a  little  salt.  Swelled 
rice  or  barley  may  be  added  to  it.  Veal  or  chicken 
broth  is  made  in  the  same  way.  —  Presbyterian 
Cook-Book.     Dayton,  O.     {By  per) 

Beef  Tea. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  lean  fresh  beef  into  slices, 
lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling 
water ;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour 

223 


224  A   NOURISHING   OMELET. 

by  the  fire,  then  just  boil  it  up,  pour  it  off  clear,  and 
salt  it  a  very  little.  —  Godey  's  Lady 's  Book.  {By  per. 
Pub) 

A  Nourishing  Omelet. 

Dissolve  a  saltspoon  of  beef-extract  in  half  a  cup  of 
hot  water,  and  stir  into  it  half  a  cup  of  the  crusts 
of  whole-wheat  bread  rolled  fine.  Let  them  soak 
over  the  teakettle  while  you  beat  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Stir  the  soaked  crumbs  into 
the  yolks,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  stir  the 
whites  in  lightly.  Cook  in  a  hot,  buttered  omelet- 
pan.  Fold,  and  invert  on  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  —  The  Peerless  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A. 
L  incoln.     {By  per. ) 

Gruel. 

"One  large  tablespoonful  of  fine  Indian  or  oat 
meal,  mixed  smooth  with  cold  water,  and  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt ;  pour  upon  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
turn  into  a  saucepan,  and  boil  gently  for  nearly  an 
hour.  Stir  it  frequently,  and  thin  with  boiling  wate-,- 
if  becoming  too  thick.  When  done,  and  cool  enough, 
serve  with  sugar  and  a  little  new  milk  or  cream. 
Raisins  boiled  in  gruel  improve  it." 

Arrowroot. 

Mix  a  dessert-spoonful  of  arrowroot  with  a  little 
cold  water ;  have  ready  boiling  water  in  a  kettle,  and 
pour  it  upon  the  arrowroot  until  it  becomes  quite 
clear,  keeping  it  stirred  all  the  time ;  add  a  little 
sugar.  When  milk  may  be  taken,  it  is  very  good 
made  in  the  same  way  with  milk  instead  of  water, 


GROUND-RICE  MILK.  225 

a  dessert-spoonful  of  arrowroot,  and  half  a  pint  of 
milk  ;  add  a  small  bit  of  lemon-peel.  — Arthur  s  Home 
Magazine.     {By  per) 

Ground-Rice  Milk. 

Boil  one  spoonful  of  ground  rice,  rubbed  down 
smooth,  with  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  a  bit  of 
cinnamon,  lemon-peel,  and  nutmeg.  Sweeten  when 
nearly  done.  —  Godey's  Lady's  Book.     (By per.) 

Flour  Caudle. 

Take  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  very 
smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Stir  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  it  very 
carefully  and  thoroughly  to  prevent  burning  or  be- 
coming "lumpy."  Season  it  with  grated  nutmeg  or 
a  little  ground  allspice. 

(This  caudle,  or  "pap"  as  country  people  often 
call  it,  is  excellent  in  cases  of  diarrhoea.) 

Panada. 

"Six  Boston  crackers  split,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  sugar,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nut- 
meg ;  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  well.  Pile 
the  crackers  in  a  bowl  in  layers,  scatter  the  salt  and 
sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  among  them.  Cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  set  on  the  hearth,  with  a  close 
top  over  the  bowl,  for  at  least  one  hour.  The 
crackers  should  be  almost  clear,  and  soft  as  jelly,  but 
not  broken.  Eat  from  the  bowl,  with  more  sugar 
sprinkled  in  if  you  wish  it.  If  properly  made,  this 
panada  is  very  nice." 


226  MILK  TOAST  {FOR  INVALIDS). 

Milk  Toast  (for  invalids). 

Take  a  couple  of  slices  of  bread,  and  toast  well, 
—  that  is,  crisp.  Take  new  milk  or  cream,  also  a 
bit  of  butter  (varying  according  to  toast  required), 
and  melt  in  a  saucepan  together.  Then  dip  in  the 
slices  of  toast,  let  them  soak  for  a  moment  or  two, 
lift  on  to  a  deep  plate,  and  pour  the  remains  of  milk 
and  butter  on  top.  Serve  very  hot ;  add  salt  as 
required.  —  New  -  York  Herald. 

Irish-Moss  Blancmange. 

Pick  over  carefully  one  teacupful  of  Irish  moss  ; 
wash  it  first  in  saleratus-water,  then  rinse  it  several 
times  in  fresh  ;  put  it  in  a  tin  bucket,  with  one  quart 
of  milk ;  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  until  the  milk  begins  to  thicken, 
then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  sweeten  with 
powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Wet 
the  mould  in  cold  water,  pour  in  the  blancmange, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  quite  firm,  loosen  the 
edges  from  the  mould,  and  turn  out  on  a  dish.  To 
be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream.  —  Presbyterian 
Cook-Book.     Dayton,  O. 

Calves'-Foot  Jelly. 

"Boil  four  nicely  cleaned  calves'-feet  in  three 
quarts  of  water,  until  reduced  to  one,  very  slowly ; 
strain,  and  set  away  until  cold  ;  then  take  off  the  fat 
from  the  top,  and  remove  the  jelly  into  a  stew-pan, 
avoiding  the  settlings,  and  adding  half  a  pound  of 
white  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 


EGG  MULLED  IN  TEA    OR    COFFEE.  22J 

the  whites  of  two  eggs,  the  latter  to  make  it  trans- 
parent. Boil  all  together  a  few  moments,  and  set 
away  in  bowls  or  glasses ;  it  is  excellent  in  a  sick- 
room." 

Egg  mulled  in  Tea  or  Coffee. 

"  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  very  well,  in  a  tea  or 
coffee  cup ;  stir  into  it  a  little  milk  or  cream  ;  then 
pour  on  it,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  hot  coffee  or  tea 
sufficient  to  fill  the  cup.  If  the  hot  liquid  is  poured 
in  too  hastily,  or  without  stirring  it  at  the  time,  the 
egg  will  curdle,  instead  of  uniting  with  the  tea.  In- 
valids are  recommended  to  try  this  mixture  for  break- 
fast, as  being  light  and  nourishing,  without  being 
heating." 

Raspberry  Vinegar. 

To  four  quarts  red  raspberries,  put  enough  vinegar 
to  cover,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours  ;  scald 
and  strain  it ;  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of 
juice ;  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  and  bottle ;  it  is  then 
ready  for  use,  and  will  keep  years.  To  one  glass  of 
water  add  a  great  spoonful.  It  is  much  relished  by 
the  sick.  Very  nice.  —  Every-day  Cook-Book  : 
Miss  Neill.     Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.     (By  per.) 

Apple  Water. 

"  One  large  juicy  pippin,  the  most  finely  flavored 
you  can  get ;  three  cups  of  cold  water,  one  quart  if 
the  apple  is  very  large.  Pare  and  quarter  the  apple, 
but  do  not  core  it.  Put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  tin  or 
porcelain  saucepan  with  the  water,  and  boil,  closely 
covered,  until  the  apple  stews  to  pieces.     Strain  the 


228  BARLEY  WATER. 

liquor  at  once,  pressing  the  apple  hard  in  the  cloth. 
Strain  this  again  through  a  finer  bag,  and  set  away 
to  cool.  Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  ice  for 
drinking." 

Barley  Water. 

Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  well-washed  pearl- 
barley  into  a  pitcher ;  pour  over  it  boiling  water ; 
cover  it,  and  let  it  remain  till  cold ;  then  drain  off 
'.he  water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and,  if  liked,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  grated  nutmeg. — Every-day 
Cook-Book  :  Miss  NeilL   Belford,  Clarke,  &  Co.,  Pubs. 


CHAPTER    XIX. 


HOME   REMEDIES, 


HOME  REMEDIES. 

Herbs,  too,  she  knew,  and  well  of  each  could  speak, 

That  in  her  garden  sipped  the  silvery  dew ; 
Where  no  vain  flower  disclosed  a  gaudy  streak ; 

But  herbs  for  use,  and  physic  not  a  few, 
Of  gray  renown,  within  those  borders  grew  : 

The  tufted  Basil,  pun-provoking  Thyme, 
Fresh  Baum,  and  Marygold  of  cheerful  hue ; 

The  lowly  Gill,  that  never  dares  to  climb ; 
And  more  I  fain  would  sing,  disdaining  here  to  rhyme. 

Yet  Euphrasy  may  not  be  left  unsung, 

That  gives  dim  eyes  to  wander  leagues  around ; 
And  pungent  Radish,  biting  infant's  tongue ; 

And  Plantain  ribbed,  that  heals  the  reaper's  wound; 
And  Marjoram  sweet,  in  shepherd's  posy  found; 

And  Lavender,  whose  spikes  of  azure  bloom 
Shall  be,  erewhile,  in  arid  bundles  bound, 

To  lurk  amidst  the  labors  of  her  loom, 
And  crown  her  kerchiefs  clean  with  mickle  rare  perfume. 

William  Shenstone. 


Herb  Teas. 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  one  tablespoonful 
of  the  herbs.  Cover  the  bowl,  set  it  over  the  tea- 
kettle, and  steep  ten  minutes.  Sweeten  if  desired. 
Mullein  tea  is  good  for  inflammation  of  the  lungs ; 
camomile  tea,  for  sleeplessness  ;  calamus  and  catnip 
tea,  for  colds  and  infant's  colic ;  cinnamon  tea,  for 
hemorrhages  ;  watennelon-seed  and  pumpkin-seed  tea, 
for  strangury  and  summer-complaint.  A  few  sprigs 
of  sage,  burnet,  balm,  and  sorrel,  half  a  lemon  sliced, 
and  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  sweetened  to  taste, 
and  covered  closely  until  cold,  make   an  agreeable 

231 


232  PENNYROYAL    TEA. 

drink  for  a  fever  patient.  —  The  Boston  Cook-Book  : 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln.     Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By 

per.) 

Pennyroyal  Tea. 

"The  virtues  of  this  old-fashioned  remedy  are 
vouched  for  in  cholera  years,  by  a  correspondent, 
who  says  that  the  pennyroyal  herb,  made  into  a  tea 
and  drank  hot,  is  the  most  comforting  and  active 
preventive  that  can  be  imagined  when  depressing 
symptoms  set  in." 

Elder  Tea. 

"  Make  a  strong  tea  of  elder-flowers,  either  fresh  or 
dried.  Sweeten  with  honey.  This  tea  is  to  be  drunk 
as  hot  as  possible,  after  the  person  is  warm  in  bed ; 
it  produces  a  strong  perspiration,  and  a  slight  cold  or 
cough  yields  to  it  immediately ;  but  the  more  stub- 
born requires  two  or  three  repetitions.  Used  in 
Russia."  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  colds  at- 
tended with  feverish  symptoms  and  sore  throat. 

Slippery-Elm  Tea. 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  upon  one  teaspoonful 
of  slippery-elm  powder  or  a  piece  of  the  bark.  When 
cool,  strain,  and  flavor  with  lemon-juice  and  sugar. 
This  is  soothing  in  any  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
membrane.  —  Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln. 
Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade. 

Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water  over  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  whole  flaxseed,  and  steep  three  hours.     Strain 


CALAMUS  CANDY.  233 

and  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Add  a  little  more  water  if  the  liquid  seems  too  thick. 
This  is  soothing  in  colds.  —  Boston  Cook-Book  :  Mrs. 
D.  A.  Lincoln.     Roberts  Brothers,  Pubs.     (By  per.) 

Calamus  Candy. 

"Two  cupfuls  of  small  pieces  of  sliced  root,  an 
eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness  ;  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  boil  gradually ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  add 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  pulverized  white  sugar,  with 
water  ;  simmer  long  and  slowly,  stirring  frequently  ; 
pour  out  in  buttered  pans.  In  Turkey  it  is  con- 
sidered preventive  of  contagion." 

And  he  felt  new  life  in  his  sinews  shoot, 
As  he  drank  the  juice  of  the  calamus-root; 
And  now  he  treads  the  fatal  shore, 
As  fresh  and  vigorous  as  before. 

The  Culprit  Fay:  Joseph  Hodman  Drakt. 

Delightful  Cough  Candy. 

Break  up  a  cupful  of  slippery-elm  bark,  and  let  it 
soak  for  an  hour  in  water  poured  over  it  in  the  meas- 
uring-cup. Half  fill  a  cup  with  flaxseed,  and  fill  up 
to  the  brim  with  water,  leaving  it  to  soak  the  same 
time  as  the  slippery-elm.  When  you  are  ready  to 
make  the  candy,  put  one  pound  and  a  half  of  brown 
sugar  in  a  stew-pan  over  the  fire ;  pour  the  water 
from  the  slippery-elm  and  flaxseed  over  it,  straining 
the  last,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils  and  begins 
to  turn  back  to  sugar ;  then  turn  it  out,  and  it  will 
break  up  into  crumbly,  small  pieces.  For  preachers 
or  teachers  who  use  their  voices  too  much,  it  will 
be  found  an  admirable  and  agreeable  medicine,  the 


234  EXCELLENT  COUGH  MIXTURE. 

taste  being  peculiarly  pleasant.  It  is  highly  recom- 
mended to  any  one  subject  to  throat  affections.  The 
best  flavor  for  it  is  a  little  lemon-juice. — Virginia 
Cookery-Book  :  Mrs.  Mary  Stuart  Smith.  Harper 
&  Brothers,  Pubs.     {By  per.) 

Excellent  Cough  Mixture. 
Take  a  handful  of  hoarhound,  boil  in  a  quart  of 
water ;  add  one  pint  of  Orleans  molasses,  and  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  to  a  thin  sirup.  Put 
all  in  a  bottle,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  tar. 
Shake  while  warm,  until  the  tar  is  cut  into  small 
beads.  Dose  :  Take  one  tablespoonful  whenever  the 
cough  is  troublesome.  Presbyterian  Cook-Book,  Day- 
ton, O.     { By  per) 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat. 

Make  a  gargle  of  one  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  one 
of  salt,  and  one  half-teaspoonful  of  cayenne-pepper. 
Mix  these  with  one  teacupful  of  hot  water.  When 
cool,  add  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cider-vinegar.  -■> 
Presbyterian  Cook-Book.     {By  per) 

Salve. 

Four  ounces  of  mutton-tallow,  two   of  beeswax, 

one  of  rosin,  and  one-half  ounce  of  gum   camphor. 

Simmer  well  together  ;  take  off  the  fire,  and  then 

add  one  gill  of  alcohol.     Good  for  all  kinds  of  sores 

and    wounds.  —  Presbyterian     Cook-Book  :    Mrs. 

W.  C. 

Brown  Salve. 

Two  pounds  of  mutton-tallow,  put  in  as  many 
jimson    (Jamestown   weed)    and    plantain    leaves   as 


BALSAM  LINIMENT.  23$ 

possible ;  fry  until  they  crimp  up,  and  then  strain. 
To  this  add  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tar ;  let  it 
boil  up,  then  pour  it  into  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  to 
be  kept,  and  let  cool.  —  Presbyterian  Cook-Book. 
{By  per.) 

Balsam  Liniment. 

"The  fruit  of  the  balsam  apple  (momordica  bal- 
samina)  picked  when  ripe,  and  preserved  in  alcohol, 
is  considered  very  efficacious  applied  to  a  fresh 
wound.  Bind  a  piece  upon  the  wound  or  cut.  In 
Syria,  the  fruit  is  used  for  the  same  purpose  that  it 
is  here ;  but  they  cut  it  open  when  unripe,  and  in- 
fuse it  in  sweet  oil,  exposed  to  the  sun  for  some  days, 
until  the  oil  has  become  red.  This  is  dropped  upon 
cotton,  and  applied." 

For  a  Gathering. 

"  Soak  the  leaves  of  common  dock-plant  in  vinegar ; 
apply  warm,  as  often  as  possible." 

Borage^ 

"  This  plant  contains  a  certain  amount  of  saltpetre, 
as  may  be  proved  by  burning  a  dried  leaf.  For  this 
reason,  it  is  used  with  great  benefit  for  the  relief  of 
sore  throats.  The  root  is  rich  in  gum,  and  if  boiled 
yields  a  mucilaginous  emulsion,  excellent  for  irrita- 
tion of  the  throat  and  chest.  Very  violent  attacks 
of  toothache,  where  the  nerve  has  taken  cold,  are 
often  cured  by  holding  a  portion  of  the  leaves,  pre- 
viously boiled  in  milk,  and  applied  warm,  in  the 
mouth,  against  the  affected  tooth." 


236  THIEVES'    VINEGAR. 

Thieves'  Vinegar. 

"Soak  two  ounces  each  of  rue,  sage,  rosemary, 
lavender,  and  wormwood,  for  three  days  in  one  pint 
of  white-wine  vinegar;  stand  at  a  short  distance 
from  the  fire.  In  each  pint  of  vinegar,  dissolve  half 
an  ounce  of  camphor,  and  strain  well.  In  cases  of 
infection,  bathe  the  nostrils  and  around  the  mouth 
with  this  preparation.  This  powerful  disinfectant 
was  used  during  the  plague  in  London,  by  the  thieves 
who  robbed  the  dead  and  dying  :  hence  its  name." 

Scent  Sachets.     No.  1. 

"  Take  of  lavender-flowers,  free  from  stalk,  half  a 

pound ;  dried  thyme  and  mint,  each  half  an  ounce  ; 

ground  cloves  and  caraways,  of  each  a  quarter  of  an 

ounce ;   common    salt   dried,    one  ounce.      Mix  the 

whole  well  together,  and  put  into  silk   or  cambric 

bags.     It  will  perfume  the  drawers  and   linen  very 

nicely." 

Scent  Sachets.     No.  2. 

"  Coriander-seed  one  ounce,  orris-root  one  ounce, 
rose-leaves  one  ounce,  mace  one  drachm,  allspice  one 
drachm,  lavender-flowers  one  ounce,  sweet-flag  {cala- 
mus aromaticus)  one  ounce." 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


PAGE 

Almonds,  salted 208 

Ambrosia 205 

Angel  Cake 191 

Apple  Butter 127 

"       Dumplings 165 

"       Pudding,  boiled.. .  164 

"      Sauce,  for  Goose. .  66 

"           "      Sunday 166 

"      Water 227 

Arrowroot 224 

Asparagus,  to  cook 96 

Bachelor  Buttons.  ...  198 

Bacon  and  Eggs 45 

Baked  Beans 50 

"      Custards 169 

Balsam  Liniment 235 

Barley  Sugar 217 

Water 228 

Bass,  boiled 16 

Beans,  baked    50 

"       string 28 

Beef  a  la  Mode 31 

"     roast 

"    Loaf 33 

"    Stew  or  Hash 31 

"    Tea 223 


PAGE 

Beef's  Heart,  to  bake  a  . .  52 

Beefsteak,  French 29 

"         fried 30 

Pie 31 

Beets 106 

Biscuit,  brown 149 

"        drop 151 

egg 15° 

"       Naples 1 50 

"       soda 151 

"        flyaways,  or  souffle"  151 

Blanc-Mange,  Irish  moss.  226 

"            "        raspberry..  203 

Blackberry  Flummery. . .  171 

Borage 235 

Bouillabaisse,  a  Marseilles 

receipt  for 6 

Bouillon 4 

Bow- Knots 199 

Bread 142 

"     aSrated  home-made  145 

"     brown 155 

"     corn 158 

"     French  twist 144 

"      salt-rising 146 

"      Vienna 144 

Bride-Cake,  rich 199 

(237) 


233 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Brown  Betty. 166 

Bread 155 

Broth,  mutton 223 

"  Bubble  and  Squeak  ".  . .  53 

Buns 147 

"    hot  cross 148 

"    saffron 148 

Cabbage,  boiled 103 

"         red,  stewed .  . .  103 
"          to  stew  a  la 

cauliflower . .  103 

Cake  angel 191 

"     black 196 

"     bride 199 

"     cocoanut 196 

"     dried-apple 195 

"     gold 192 

"     hickory-nut.. 193 

"     jelly,  fruit 196 

"     marble 192 

"     pound 193 

"     silver 192 

"     sponge,  No.  1 195 

"     sponge,  No.  2 195 

"     twelfth-night 200 

"     watermelon 193 

Cakes,  rock 187 

"      oaten 160 

Calamus  Candy 233 

Calve's-Foot  jelly 226 


Candied  cherries 209 

Candy,  calamus 233 

"      cocoanut 217 

"      cough 233 

"      peanut, 220 

Caramels,  chocolate 218 

Catsup,  cucumber 117 

"       grape 118 

"       tomato,  No.  1 .  . .   117 

"       tomato,  No.  2 117 

Caudle,  flour 225 

Celery,  to  stew 105 

Charlotte  Russe  203 

Cheese,  cottage 90 

Fritters 88 

Cherries,  candied 209 

Chestnut  Puree 64 

Chicken,  a  souffle  of 67 


curry  of 

Fricassee  of. 

jellied 

Pie 


68 
67 
69 
69 


"  with    sweet 

potatoes 70 

Chocolate 212 

"         Caramels 218 

"         Pudding 170 

Chops,  lamb 39 

Chowder,  clam 24 

"         lobster 25 

Clam  Chowder 24 


ALPHA  BE  TJCAL  INDEX. 


239 


Clam  Scallops 24 

Clams,   hard -shelled,   to 

boil 23 

Cocoanut  Candy 217 

Codfish  Balls 49 

Coffee  Cream 206 

"      to  boil 211 

Cold  Slaw,  cream  dress- 
ing for 103 

Coloring,  red  or  pink 218 

Compote  of  Gooseberries  171 

Cookies,  sour-cream 186 

Corn,  sweet 98 

"      Bread 158 

"     Oysters 98 

Cough  mixture,  excellent  234 

Cranberries 64 

Cream,  coffee 206 

"       Dressing 94 

Creamed  Walnuts 220 

Croutons n 

"         after  dinner  . . .  208 
Croquettes      de     volatile 
(Poultry 
Croquettes).     71 

"  Salmon 17 

Crullers 186 

Cucumbers. ...    96 

Cupid's  Wells 199 

Curds  and  Cream 89 

Currants,  iced 210 


Currants,  spiced 118 

Curry,  chicken 68 

"       rabbit yy 

Custards,  baked  169 

Dates,  stuffed 219 

Dent  de  Loup  Biscuit 197 

Deer's  Head,  to  cook  in 

camp 75 

Dominoes 198 

Doughnuts,  editor's 186 

Dried  Beef,  frizzled 33 

Drop-cakes,  hominy 158 

Dumplings,  apple 165 

Duckling  Pot  Roast 66 

Eclairs 194 

Eels,  fried 21 

"     stewed 21 

Egg  mulled  in  Tea  or  Cof- 
fee    227 

Eggs  and  bacon 45 

"      fricasseed    87 

"      frothed 88 

"     pickled 115 

"     scrambled 87 

"      soft  boiled 87 

Egg-Plant ..  107 

English   Christmas  Plum 

Pudding 173 

"        Tapioca  Pudding  170 


240 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


PAGE 

Fish  Jelly 20 

"     scalloped  20 

Flapjacks,  corn-meal .. .     158 

Flaxseed  Lemonade 232 

Floating  Island 204 

Flounders,  fried 19 

Flour  Caudle 225 

Forcemeat,    to    make    a 

good 21 

French  Toast 152 

Fricaudeau  a  I'Oseille.  ...     35 

Fricassee  of  Squirrels 77 

Fritters,  cheese 88 

"        omelet 87 

"        parsnep 106 

"        pork 44 

Frosting,  plain 202 

Frumenty 160 


Gargle  for  Sore  Throat.  234 

Gateau  des  Pommes 1 66 

Gathering,  for  a 235 

Gems , . . .    ,  145 

Giblet  Pie 70 

Gingerbread,  soft 187 

Ginger  Horse-Cakes 187 

Ginger-snaps 187 

Goose,  to  roast  a 65 

Gooseberries,  compote  of.  171 

Grape  Sherbet 210 


Green  Peas  stewed  with 

Ham  and  Lettuce 96 

Green  Turtle  Steak  (Epi- 
curean)      15 

Ground-Rice  Milk 225 

Grouse,  fillet  of 78 

Gruel 224 

Guinea  Fowls,  roast 71 

Halibut,  fillets  of,  d  la 

Poulette 18 

Ham,  to  boil  a 46 

"      to  broil 46 

Herb  Teas 231 

Hominy  Drop-Cakes 158 

Huckleberry  Pudding. ..  .  172 

Ice-Cream,  chocolate. . .  207 
"               lemon  or  va- 
nilla   205 

"  peach 206 

"  strawberry  . .  206 

Iced  Currants 210 

Indian-Meal  Pudding 168 

Irish-Moss  Blanc-mange.  226 

Jam,  blackberry 128 

"     crab-apple 129 

"     gooseberry 128 

"     raspberry 1 28 

"     rhubarb,  No,  1 129 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


241 


Jam,  rhubarb,  No.  2 129 

"     strawberry 127 

Jellied  chicken ■, .     69 

Jelly,  apple 130 

"     calve's-foot 226 

"     cider-apple 130 

"     currant 131 

"      elderberry 131 

"      for  Cake 196 

"     grape 131 

"      of    Pig's   Feet  and 

Ears 46 

"      quince  and  apple. . .   130 

"      red-haw 132 

"     strawberry 132 

"      Fruit-cake 196 

Johnny-Cake 1 57 

Jumbles 186 


Lady-Fingers 195 

Lamb,  breast  of,  with  peas    38 
"     to  roast. ..........     39 

"     Chops 39 

Lamb's  Head 53 

Lemon  Snow 204 

Lentils,  boiled,  plain 99 

"Left-Overs,"       utilizing 

the 63 

"  Little  Pigs  in  Blankets  "     53 
Liver,  ragout  of 34 


Lobster,  chowder 25 

"        sauce 26 


Macaroni,  baked 107 

Macaroons    197 

Mackerel,  broiled 19 

Maids  of  Honor 198 

Mango,  pickle 113 

Marketing,  hints  for 54 

Marmalade,  pine-apple. . .  129 

Mayonnaise 94 

Meat  Porcupine 54 

Melons 96 

Meringue,  rice 167 

Milk,  ground-rice 225 

Mincemeat        without 

Brandy ,  185 

Molasses  Sauce 173 

Muffins,  maize 1 56 

"        rye   159 

Mush,  fried 158 

Mushrooms,  fried 93 

"           stewed 93 

"           pickled 115 

Mustard  and  Cress 95 

Mutton,  ate  Chou ,  .  37 

"        Broth 223 

Steaks 37 

"       stewed    shoulder 

of 38 


242 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Nasturtiums,  to  pickle .  1 16 

Oaten  Cakes 160 

Omelet,  a  nourishing 224 

"        an  Rhum 85 

"       asparagus 86 

bread 85 

"       ham 86 

"       plain. . . , 85 

"       Spanish 86 

"        au  Sucre 83 

"       aux  Fines  Herbes  83 

"       with  jelly 84 

"        Fritters 87 

Onions,  baked 105 

boiled 105 

Opossums 76 

Orange  Baskets 205 

"       Water  Ice 210 

Oven,  to  test  the 144 

Oysters,  broiled 23 

"         Fried      to     the 

Queen's  Taste.  22 

"         scalloped 22 

Panada 225 

Parsnep  Fritters 106 

Partridges,  broiled 78 

Patties,  oyster 21 

Peaches,  to  preserve 123 

Peach  Leather 123 


Peanut  Candy 220 

Pears,  to  preserve 1 24 

Peas,  green 97 

Pettitoes    51 

Piccalilly 112 

Pickled  Beet  Root 114 

"        Carrots 1 14 

"        Barberries 116 

"        Cucumbers  .';•,■'.,  1 1 1 

Eggs 115 

"        Muskmelon 118 

"        Onions 11 1 

"         Pork,  to  boil. ...  45 

"        Mango 113 

"        Ripe  Cucumbers  1 1 1 

Pickles,  Green  Tomato  . .  112 

"       Pears 118 

Pie,  beefsteak 31 

"    chicken 69 

"    custard 183 

"    cocoanut 1S3 

"    cream 1S3 

"    dried-apple 180 

"    giblet 70 

"    green  apple., 1S0 

"    lemon,  No.  1 184 

"         "2 184 

"    orange,  No.  1 184 

"          "         "    2 184 

"     pigeon 71 

"    prune 181 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


243 


Pie,  pumpkin 181 

"    peach 181 

"     raisin 185 

"     rhubarb 180 

"    squash 182 

"     tomato 181 

"    woodcock 78 

"     crust,  flake 179 

"     Murrey's 179 

Pigeon  Pie. 71 

Pig's  Feet  and  Ears,  jelly 

of 46 

"      Feet  Soused 45 

Pig,  roast 43 

Pork,  Fritters 44 

"      salt,  with  apples.. . .  44 

"      Steaks 44 

"     Tenderloin       on 

Toast 44 

"     to  boil  pickled 45 

Potage  a  la  Reine 8 

Pot  Roast,  duckling 66 

Potatoes,       au      Maztre 

d' hotel 100 

to  boil  sweet  .  102 

"Hillocks"...  100 

mashed 99 

Saratoga 101 

Scones 101 

Stewed 101 

Pot-au-Feu 5 


Preserved  Barberries ... .  126 

"          Cherries 124 

"          Crab- Apple .. .  124 

Pudding,  amber 169 

"        chocolate 170 

"        cup  plum . .  173 

"         English  Christ- 
mas plum  ...  173 
"         English  tapioca  170 

"     .   Florentine 168 

"        huckleberry 172 

"         Indian  meal  ...  168 

"        rice  black-cap . .  167 

"        Spanish  fruit.. .  165 

"        white  or  suet. . .  52 

"        sauce,  plain 175 

Parie,  chestnut 64 

"       (VOseille  {Purie  of 

Sorrel) 36 

Quince  Cheese 126 

Rabbit  Curry 77 

Radishes 95 

Raisins,  to  stone  easily. . .  203 

Raspberry  Vinegar 227 

Red  Cabbage,  to  pickle . .  114 

Rice  Black-cap  Pudding.  167 

"    Japanese  Style 107 

"     Meringue 167 

"    Waffles 159 


244 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Roast  Beef 

"     Goose 

"     Guinea  Fowls. 
"     Lamb 

"     Pig 

"      Turkey 

"     Wild  Ducks. . . 

Rock  cakes 

Rogrod 

Roly-Poly 

Rusk 


Salad,  chicken,  No.  i. . . 

"  "  "    2. . . 

"        dandelion 

"        lettuce.. 

"        potato 

Sally  Lunn 

Salmon,  broiled 

Salve 

"     brown 

Sauce,  foaming 

"       fruit-syrup 

"       hard 

"       Lobster 

"       molasses 

"       plain  pudding  .... 

Sausages 

"        to  keep  fresh  all 

the  year 


3° 
65 
7i 
39 
43 
61 

79 
187 
167 
172 
147 


68 
69 
94 
95 
102 

159 

17 

234 

234 

174 

174 

174 

26 

173 

175 

5i 

52 


Scent  Sachets,  No.  1 236 

"            "           "2 236 

Scones,  Scotch 151 

Sherbet,  grape 210 

Shortcake,  strawberry. .  .  170 

Soup,  a  delicious 10 

.  "      celery. . . 9 

"      corn 10 

"      eel 6 

"      mock  oyster. . .  7 

"      noodles  for 12 

"      okra,  or  gumbo.. . .  8 

"      oyster 7 

"      pea 9 

"      rabbit 5 

"      marrow  dumplings 

for 11 

"      vermicelli. ........  11 

Soused  Pig's  Feet 4.5 

Spanish  Fruit  Pudding. .  165 

Spare-Rib 44 

Spinach  and  other  greens  95 

Sponge  Cake 19s 

Squashes  106 

Squirrels,  fricassee  of . . . .  77 

Steak,  a  Spanish 30 

"      broiled  venison ...  76 

"      pork 44 

Stew,  Irish 38 

Stock,  brown 3 

"      veal 4 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


245 


Strawberry  Shortcake  ...  170 

Sturgeon,  roast 16 

Succotash 98 

Sugar,  a  la  Creme 217 

"      barley 217 

Sweetbread,  veal 35 

Tablet,  ginger  or  cinna- 
mon    218 

Taffy,  walnut 220 

Tea,  beef 223 

"     elder 232 

"     iced 211 

"     pennyroyal 232 

"     herb 231 

"     slippery-elm 232 

"     to  make 21  r 

Terrapin,  stewed 24 

Thieves'  Vinegar 236 

Toast,  French 152 

"       milk  (for  invalids)  226 

Toffee,  vanilla 219 

Tomato,  au  Gratin 104 

"         broiled 104 

Preserves 125 

stewed 104 

"         to  preserve 125 

Tongue,  to  boil 34 

Tripe,  stewed 51 

Trout,  to  fry 15 

Turnips,  a  la  Poulette. ...    105 


Turkey,  dressed  with  Oys- 
ters       62 

"       how  to  roast  a.  . .     61 
"       how  to  select  a. .     60 

Tutti-Frutti  . . . , 207 

Twelfth-Night  Cake 200 

Veal  and  Rice 37 

"     braised 36 

"     stewed 36 

"      Sweetbread .......  35 

Venison  Steaks,  broiled. .  76 

Vinegar,  Thieves' 236 

Waffles,  rice 159 

Walnuts,  creamed .  • 220 

"        to  pickle 116 

"        Taffy 220 

Water-Cresses 93 

"      Ice,  orange 210 

Watermelon     Rinds,     to 

preserve 125 

Welsh  Rarebit 89 

Whitefish,  fresh,  fried 20 

Wild  Ducks,  to  roast ....  79 

Woodcock  Pie 78 

Yeast 140 

Yorkshire  Pudding  with 
Roast  Beef 33 


Blank  Pages  for  Additional  Recipes. 


/' 


if 

:'■■.      V 


nfflnj 


■'■.'■..-■■:■         ■  *  m&Sm  IS    i   ■  Hi 


