-*6Ura 


,0V  o_ 


*      o 


W 


*  *  s      ,\\ 


\^ 


•W 


%«? 


o 


,V^'  C^-  *     'I      K      O  \X* 


.  3 


V 


•h-  y  >, 


%& 


C< Vt4V 


:  ,^%  °.v^ 


%4 


,#v 


y 


■f  :  %  f 


,"&  V  ' 


b   V 


x    ^ 


THE 


UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK 


AND 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  GUIDE 


V 


By  MRS.  WASHINGTON 


NEW    YORK 
HARPER    &    BROTHERS,    FRANKLIN    SQUARE 

1886 


\-s 


-■■;-vv 


W 


>\ 


Copyright,  1885,  by  Harper  &  Brothers. 


All  rights  reserved. 


TO 

THE  DEAR  AND  SAYORY  MEMORY  OF 

PIETRO,  LOUIS,  FELICLE,  DESIREE,  DINAH,  MARY 

ANNE,  OLD  HUMPHREY,  CHLOE 

DADDY  JIM 

AND  A  HOST  OF  OTHER  HONEST  COOKS 

WHO  "HAYING  BEEN" 

HAVE  AS  GOOD  A  RIGHT  TO  BE  "AMONG  THE  STARS" 

AS 

MORE  ILLUSTRIOUS  WORTHIES 

THE   UNRIVALLED    COOK-BOOK 

IS   AFFECTIONATELY 

JBcbkatch 


PREFACE. 


"The  Unrivalled  Cook -Book"  is  largely  compiled 
from  private  sources.     The  two  hundred  Creole  receipts 

furnished  the  Editor  by  her  kind  friend,  Madame , 

of  New  Orleans,  have  been  heirlooms  in  her  family  for 
more  than  a  century.  It  is  believed  that  no  American 
cook-book  has  yet  contained  so  complete  a  list  of  Creole 
receipts,  while  other  private  receipt-books  —  American 
(North  and  South),  English,  Scotch,  French,  German,  Ital- 
ian, and  Russian — have  been  placed  at  the  Editor's  dis- 
posal. The  old-fashioned  English  and  Scotch  receipts  for 
spiced  beef,  Hunter's  beef,  Devonshire  clotted  cream,  oat- 
meal and  white  scones,  etc.,  are  scarcely  to  be  found  in 
other  American  cook-books,  and  this  is  still  more  true  in 
regard  to  the  Russian  soups — exceptionally  good  of  their 
kind — the  Italian  monastic  dishes,  and  many  other  re- 
ceipts, notably  those  for  macaroni  of  all  kinds. 

A  long  residence  in  foreign  countries  has  convinced 
the  Editor  that  the  American  cuisine,  where  it  is  good, 
is,  as  is  the  American  market,  the  best  in  the  world.  But 
the  very  fact  that  our  native  cuisine  is  so  good  and  our 
market  so  superlative — one  must  have  travelled  far  and 
wide  to  know  how  superlative — makes  it  important  to 
have  American  cooks  furnished  with  the  widest  possible 
range  of  receipts,  both  American  and  foreign.  Should  the 
"Unrivalled  Cook-Book"  be  fortunate  enough  to  gain  a 


vi  PREFACE. 

trial,  it  is  believed  that  it  will  form  an  important  addi- 
tion to  the  list  of  American  cook-books,  inasmuch  as  it 
contains  all  that  they  contain,  and  many  other  receipts 
quite  new  to  the  general  American  public.  All  the  re- 
ceipts are  practical  ones ;  that  is,  they  have  all,  or  nearly 
all,  been  tried  in  the  houses  of  friends,  or  in  that  of  the 
Editor,  and  with  complete  success.  In  the  arrangement 
of  the  receipts  the  system  adopted  has  been  that  of 
"  Common-sense  in  the  Household."  But  nothing  else 
has.  been  borrowed  from  that,  or  any  other  book,  except 
one  or  two  receipts,  which  have  been,  in  every  instance, 
noted  and  acknowledged.  £Tot  that  all  the  receipts  in 
this  book  are  now  published  for  the  first  time ;  but  only 
that  where  an  entirely  new  one  has  been  given,  its  source 
has  been  indicated.  It  is  hoped  that  the  public  may  find 
the  ."  Unrivalled  Cook -Book"  a  help  to  all  housekeep- 
ers, and  a  thing 

"Made  up  of  every  creature's  best." 

The  Editor's  name  is  unknown  to  fame,  and  would  add 
nothing  to  the  success  of  the  book.  In  calling  it  "  Mrs. 
Washington's  Unrivalled  Cook-Book"  she  borrows  one 
dear  to  every  son  and  daughter  of  the  mighty  Republic, 
nor  can  she  feel  that  she  has  taken  an  undue  liberty  in 
calling  herself  Mrs.  Washington.  Was  not  Washington 
the  father  of  his  country  ?  and  have  not  all  children  a 
right  to  their  father's  name? 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

HORS  D'CEUVRES . 1 

SOUPS 5 

FISH 43 

MEATS 85 

Beef 85 

Veal 102 

Mutton 116 

Lamb s 122 

Pork 123 

POULTRY 140 

GAME. 156 

VEGETABLES .     178 

MACARONI 217 

SALADS 224 

CHEESE 234 

EGGS 240 

MILK  AND  BUTTER 253 

BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  Etc 259 

GRIDDLE-CAKES 287 

DESSERT  PANCAKES,  DUMPLINGS,  AND  FRITTERS.     292 

CAKE 297 

PASTRY    .     , 385 

PUDDINGS 354 

SWEET  SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS,  Etc 381 

SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH 386 


viii  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.     399 

PRESERVES  AND   FRUIT  JELLIES 414 

PICKLES 439 

ICE-CREAM  AND  WATER-ICES 451 

TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  MADE  DRINKS 458 

DIETARY  FOR   INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS 463 

Drinks  for  Invalids 481 

GENERAL  HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM    .     .     .     .     .     .490 

HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS  .     .     494 

Household  Receipts 494 

Toilet  Receipts 503 

Medical  Receipts  .     .     . 507 

BOTTLED    SAUCES,   CATSUPS,   VINEGARS,  AND    ES- 
SENCES     517 

BOTTLED  DRINKS 526 

MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES 536 

Entrees. 536 

Simple  Entrees 540 

MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS 555 

HOME-MADE   CANDY. 575 

COOKERY  FOR  CAMPING-OUT 580 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CLEANING  SILVER,  GLASS,  CHINA. 

Etc 586 

MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS .588 

MENUS 592 

For  Spring 592 

For  Summer 593 

For  Winter 598 

INDEX 601 


THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 


HORS  D'CEUVRES. 

Hoes  d'osuvres,  or  zaksuska,  or  antipasta,  as  they  are 
variously  called  in  France,  Russia,  and  Italy,  are  of  two 
kinds,  cold  and  hot,  but  more  often  cold.  They  should  be 
prettily  arranged  in  the  small  dishes  sold  for  the  purpose, 
and  placed  on  the  dinner  or  luncheon  table  before  the  be- 
ginning of  the  meal.  Olives,  mixed  pickles,  celery,  etc., 
are  all  hors  d'oeuvres,  and  require  no  further  attention 
than  to  be  arranged  prettily  and  symmetrically  in  their 
dishes.  The  hors  d'oeuvres  given  below,  however,  require 
a  certain  amount  of  preparation. 

Artichokes. — Choose  small,  tender  artichokes,  pull  off 
the  leaves,  and  remove  the  heart  from  the  bottom  of  the 
plant.  Throw  the  hearts  into  vinegar  and  water  for  half 
an  hour  or  longer,  then  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  cloth,  ar- 
range in  a  hors  d'oeuvre  dish,  salt  them  lightly,  pepper 
them  with  white  pepper,  stick  little  bits  of  ice  among 
them,  and  serve. 

Boast  Almonds  (No.  1). — Blanch  half  a  pound  of  al- 
monds, roll  them  in  fine  table  salt,  and  roast  them  in  a 
pan  as  you  would  coffee. 

Boast  Almonds  (No.  2). — Blanch  half  a  pound  of  al- 
monds as  above,  immerse  in  fresh  cream  for  half  an  hour, 
then  dry,  roll  in  salt,  and  roast. 

1 


2  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Blanched  Peanuts. — Blanch,  roll  in  salt,  roast  as  you 
do  almonds. 

Radishes. — Wash  carefully,  and  scrape  the  skin  off  the 
long  radishes.  Half  peel  the  round  ones,  giving  the  effect 
of  an  opening  rosebud.     Arrange  in  a  hors  d'ceuvre  dish. 

Baited  Cucumbers  (Cuisiniere  Polonaise). — Wash  and 
wipe  carefully  some  medium-sized  green  cucumbers,  then 
put  them  to  dry  for  twenty-four  hours  in  a  warm,  dry 
place.  Have  ready  a  small  cask  in  which  white  wine  has 
been  kept.  Warm  this  cask  thoroughly,  put  in  the  bot~ 
torn  a  layer  of  the  cucumbers,  chopped  fennel  and  cherry 
leaves,  with  a  little  bruised , coriander-seed.  Proceed  in 
this  way  until  the  cask  is  three  fourths  full.  Then  pour 
on  salted  water  which  has  boiled  and  cooled,  close  the 
cask  with  the  greatest  care,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place  on 
two  pieces  of  wood.  As  the  water  is  absorbed,  fill  up 
with  cold  boiled  water.  Turn  every  day,  and  scrape  off 
the  mould  if  any  forms  on  the  exterior.  At  the  close  of 
two  or  three  months  the  upper  cover  may  be  taken  off 
the  barrel,  and  planks'  and  a  weight  put  on  the  cucum- 
bers to  keep  them  down. 

Bologna  Sausage. — Cut  the  Bologna  sausage  very  thin, 
and  arrange  in  a  small  dish.  Garnish  with  crimped  pars- 
ley. 

Caviare. — Use  none  but  the  finest  Russian  caviare.  Put 
in  a  small  hors  d'ceuvre  dish.   Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Caviare  Sandwiches. — Cut  some  white  bread  very  thin. 
Spread  thickly  with  caviare.  Cut  into  lozenge  -  shaped 
sandwiches.     Garnish  with  crimped  parsley,  and  dish. 

Shrimps. — Boil  to  a  bright  red,  arrange  in  a  small  dish, 
surround  with  crimped  parsley,  and  serve. 


HORS  D'CEUVRES.  3 

Variegated  Sandwiches.' — Cut  an  equal  quantity  of 
pumper-nickel  bread  and  fine  white  bread  very  thin ; 
spread  with  butter,  then  with  the  roe  of  salted  herring; 
lay  a  slice  of  pumper-nickel  on  a  slice  of  white  bread, 
press  firmly  together,  trim  into  lozenge -shaped  sand- 
wiches, and  serve. 

Butter. — The  butter  for  hors  d'oeuvre  should  always  be 
formed  into  tiny  pats,  or  rolled  into  balls,  garnished  with 
crimped  parsley,  and  served  with  little  bits  of  ice. 

Olives. — If  the  olives  should  be  too  salt,  soak  them  in 
fresh  water  for  half  an  hour  before  serving.  They  should 
be  completely  covered  with  water,  or  they  will  thicken. 

Anchovies. — Always  buy,  if  possible,  the  Nice  ancho- 
vies, they  are  small,  round,  and  plump.  In  preparing  an- 
chovies for  hors  d'oeuvre  they  should  be  soaked  for  two 
hours  in  cold  water.  Then  divide,  skin,  and  bone  them, 
arrange  in  a  hors  d'oeuvre  dish,  which  must  previously 
have  been  well  rubbed  with  garlic ;  dust  with  roasted  pars- 
ley, cover  with  oiive-oil,  and  serve. 

Truffles  au  Vin. — Cook  green  truffles  whole  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  some  fat  meat  chopped  fine,  a  bay  leaf,  parsley, 
thyme,  a  little  bouillon,  and  half  a  bottle  of  white  wine ; 
salt  and  pepper.  Remove  your  truffles  from  the  sauce, 
drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

Broiled  Mushrooms.  —  Choose  large,  fine  ones.  Peel 
and  remove  the  stems ;  place  them  bottom  upwards  on  the 
gridiron  ;  fill  them  with  butter  in  which  you  have  kneaded 
chopped  parsley ;  salt  and  pepper  a  moment  before  you 
serve  them. 

Boiled  Peanuts.  —  Choose  fresh  well -filled  peanuts. 
Carefully  selecting  them,  as  nearly  as  possible,  the  same 


4  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

size.     Boil  them  in  salt  water,  drain  and  serve.     This  is 
generally  served  before  the  soup. 

Cucumbers.  —  Grate  your  cucumbers,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Garnish  your  hors  d'oeuvre  dish  with  crimped 
parsley. 

Stuffed  Olives. — Remove  the  stems  from  the  olives,  and 
stuff  them  with  anchovies,  pounded  with  enough  olive-oil 
to  moisten  them  thoroughly. 

Sardines. — Arrange  them  carefully  in  a  dish,  and  gar- 
nish with  crimped  parsley. 

Sapsago  Sandwiches. — Grate  some  sapsago  cheese ;  mix 
it  to  a  paste  with  fresh  butter.  Cut  your  slices  of  bread 
very  thin,  and  all  the  same  size  and  form ;  butter  them, 
and  arrange  them  tastefully  in  the  hors  d'oeuvre  dish. 

Hazelnut  Butter.  —  Pound  some  ripe  hazelnuts  with 
fresh  butter.     Mould  it  into  little  forms,  and  serve. 

Pickled  Oysters.  —  Drain  the  oysters.  Arrange  them 
in  the  hors  d'oeuvre  dish,  on  a  bed  of  crimped  parsley. 


SOUPS. 


GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 


Chief  among  soups  is  beef  soup,  or  beef  bouillon. 
That  is,  it  is  the  safest  foundation  for  soups  and  sauces. 
Gouffe  asserts  that  without  beef  it  is  impossible  to  have 
what  he  calls  a  pot  au  feu  extra.  The  best  soup  or  stock 
pot  is  of  copper,  or  iron,  enamelled  inside  with  tin,  or, 
better  still,  with  porcelain.  The  best  parts  of  beef  to  buy 
for  the  soup  pot  are  the  collops,  the  rump,  the  brisket, 
and  the  shin.  The  shoulder  and  heel  may  also  be  used, 
but  do  not  make  such  strong  soup.  Beef,  for  soup,  should 
be  extremely  fresh,  and  the  same  thing  is  true  of  all  soup 
meat.     (Gou&e.) 

The  fire  should  be  clear,  even,  and  steady.  It  should 
not  be  fierce,  and  you  should  carefully  avoid  allowing  it 
to  become  so,  when  you  replenish  it.  All  soups  should 
be  cooked  steadily  and  slowly.  Be  careful  never  to  cover 
the  pot  quite  closely.  The  cover  should  be  raised  on  one 
side  for  about  an  inch  or  more. 

The  meat  should  be  prepared  as  follows :  First,  cut  the 
meat  from  the  bones  ;  secondly,  bind  it  with  a  cord  or  cut 
it  into  strips ;  thirdly,  crack  the  bones  thoroughly  with  a 
mallet. 

Put  the  bones  into  the  pot  first,  then  the  meat ;  then 
pour  on  the  water,  which  should  be  filtered  ;  allow  a 
quart  of  water  to  each  pound  of  beef ;  heat  very  slowly, 
and  do  not  add  the  salt  until  the  meat  is  pretty  well 
cooked  ;  boil  the  meat  to  rags,  and  be  careful  to  skim 
the  soup  from  time  to  time.  When  vegetables  are  cooked 
in  the  soup,  to  give  it  a  flavor,  they  must  be  carefully  re- 


6  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

moved  with  a  perforated  skimmer  as  soon  as  they  are 
tender.  When  the  soup  is  strong  enough,  which  will 
probably  be  in  six  or  seven  hours'  time,  remove  the  meat, 
strain  the  soup  through  a  fine  strainer,  taste,  salt  again,  if 
necessary,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Use  it  the  next  day, 
first  skimming  off  the  fat.  Then  heat,  strain  again,  color 
with  caramel,  and  serve. 


To  Make  Good  Stock. — Boil  some  bones  (of  beef,  mut- 
ton, veal,  poultry,  or  game,  or  all  together)  for  four  hours ; 
then  pour  off  the  liquor  into  the  stock-pot,  and  add  to 
each  gallon  the  meat  off  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  pound  of 
lean  beef,  a  pound  of  absolutely  lean  bacon,  all  sliced  fine, 
with  two  or  three  scraped  qarrots,  two  onions,  two  tur- 
nips, two  heads  of  celery  sliced,  and  two  quarts  of  water. 
Stew  until  the  meat  is  boiled  to  rags,  being  careful  not  to 
let  it  burn. 

To  Clarify  Stock. — Put  the  stock  over  a  good  fire,  and, 
when  boiling,  add  the  white  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  of 
stock,  proceeding  as  follows :  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
up  well  in  a  little  water ;  then  add  a  little  hot  stock ;  beat 
to  a  froth,  and  pour  gradually  into  the  pot ;  then  beat 
the  whole  hard  and  long ;  allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  and 
immediately  remove  and  strain  through  a  thin  flannel 
cloth. 

Asparagus  Green  Soup. — Three  pounds  of  veal,  cut 
into  small  pieces;  one  half  pound  of  salt  pork;  three 
bunches  of  asparagus  ;  one  gallon  of  water. 

Cut  the  entire  stalk  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an 
inch  long;  and  when  the  meat  has  boiled  one  hour,  add 
half  of  the  asparagus  to  the  liquor  in  the  pot;  boil  half 
an  hour  longer  and  strain,  pressing  the  asparagus  pulp 
very  hard  to  extract  the  green  coloring ;  add  the  other 
half  of  the  asparagus  (the  heads  only,  which  should  be 
kept  in  cold  water  until  you  are  ready  for  them),  and  boil 


SOUPS.  7 

twenty  minutes  more ;  then  serve  with  small  bread  dice 
fried  in  butter. 

Com  Soup. — One  large  chicken  cut  into  small  pieces ; 
twelve  ears  of  green  corn,  young  and  tender ;  one  gallon 
of  water ;  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  the  chicken  to  rags ;  then  cut  the  corn  from  the 
cob,  and  put  into  the  pot,  and  stew  an  hour  longer,  still 
gently  ;  remove  the  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
thicken  with  corn  flour,  and  serve  at  once. 

Puree  of  Carrots  with  Cream. — To  the  liquor  in  which 
a  knuckle  of  veal  has  been  boiled  add  twelve  large  car- 
rots ;  boil  till  the  carrots  will  mash  through  a  sieve ;  put 
them  through,  and  then  let  them  boil  in  the  broth  until 
it  is  quite  smooth ;  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  little 
salt. 

White  Soup  of  Jerusalem  Artichokes.  —  The  stock  of 
veal,  to  which  add  three  pounds  of  boiled  artichokes,  to 
be  pulped  through  a  sieve ;  season  with  salt,  a  soupcon 
of  cayenne  pepper,  and  before  it  is  poured  into  the  tureen 
stir  in  some  good,  thick  cream.  It  must  on  no  account  be 
allowed  to  boil  after  the  cream  is  poured  in,  but  care 
should  be  taken  that  it  is  not  chilled  by  it. 

Almond  Soup. — Blanch  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sweet 
almonds,  and  one  dozen  bitter  almonds.  Throw  them  in 
cold  water,  drain  well,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  let  them  oil,  by  adding  from  time  to  time 
a  little  water ;  put  a  quart  and  a  half  of  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  when  it  boils  put  in  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  a  few  coriander  seeds,  and  let  them  steep  a  few  min- 
utes ;  then  stir  in  your  pounded  almonds ;  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Warm  this  in  a  oain-marie ;  sprinkle  some  fried  crou- 
tons (they  should  be  a  light  gold  color),  with  powdered 


8  THE  UNRIVALLED    COOK-BOOK. 

sugar,  and,  just  before  serving,  throw  them  in  your  lait 
oVamandes. 

This  is  a  Spanish  soup  de  rigueur  for  Christmas.  They 
add  powdered  cinnamon. 

Barsch  de  Gallide,  Russian  Beet  Soup. — The  day  be- 
fore making  the  barsch  prepare  the  beet  juice  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner :  peel  and  cut  in  slices  three  large  red 
beets ;  put  them  into  an  earthen  jar,  and  cover  them  with 
tepid  water,  to  which  you  have  added  a  little  vinegar ; 
add  also  about  six  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  and  two  glasses 
of  milk.  Cover  the  jar  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a  warm 
place  for  twenty-four  hours ;  then  strain  and  filter.  The 
juice  will  be  of  a  beautiful  clear  red  color. 

To  make  the  barsch  :  four  quarts  of  sour  beet  juice 
prepared  as  directed  above ;  four  pounds  of  beef  haunch  ; 
one  pig's  ear,  salted,  .scalded,  and  blanched;  two  shalots. 
Take  one  bunch  of  celery,  chopped  fine;  one  beet, 
chopped  fine;  one  shalot ;  some  mushrooms;  have  the 
shalot,  celery,  beet,  and  mushrooms  all  fried  to  a  light 
brown  in  butter. 

Put  the  beef  into  an  earthen  pot,  and  cover  with  the 
four  quarts  of  sour  beet  juice.  Put  on  the  fire  and  skim 
carefully  all  the  scum  which  rises  to  the  top ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  set  the  pot  back,  where  the  soup  will  not  boil, 
but  simmer ;  add  the  pig's  ear,  the  two  whole  shalots,  and 
cook  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  tender ;  then  strain 
and  pour  three  quarts  of  the  bouillon  thus  made  over  the 
fried  vegetables  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  add  four  smoked 
sausages ;  twenty  minutes  afterward  add  several  spoon- 
fuls of  raw  beet  juice  filtered  (this  juice  should  be  of  the 
brightest  red  color) ;  add  also  the  pig's  ear,  cut  into  dice, 
and  a  piece  of  the  beef  cut  into  dice;  cut  the  sausages 
into  thick  slices,  and  arrange  them  in  the  soup  tureen ; 
add  a  pinch  of  powdered  parsley  to  the  soup,  pour  it  into 
the  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  little  crusts  of  bread  cut 
into  squares,  hollowed,  and  fried  in  butter;  the  hollow  in 


SOUPS.  9 

the  centre  of  each  square  should  be  filled  with  cooked 
beef  marrow.     This  is  the  king  of  soups. 

Bean  Soup  (dried).  —  Kidney,  mock-turtle,  or  rice,  or 
field  bean.  The  mock-turtle  is  best.  One  gallon  of  cold 
water ;  one  quart  of  beans,  soaked  over- night  in  luke- 
warm water ;  two  pounds  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  small 
pieces;  one  teaspoonfnl  of  brown  sugar;  one  red-pepper 
pod. 

Put  the  water,  pork,  and  beans  into  the  soup  pot,  and 
boil  three  hours,  closely  covered ;  then  shred  into  the  pot 
a  head  of  celery,  and  the  red-pepper  pod.  Simmer  now 
an  hour  longer,  stir  in  the  sugar,  strain,  and  serve  with 
slices  of  lemon. 

Or,  you  may  substitute  equal  parts  of  beef  and  lean 
ham  for  the  pork,  and  at  the  last  moment  drop  small 
forcemeat  balls  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  into  the 
soup  tureen.  This  more  luxurious  treatment,  however, 
only  befits  the  mock-turtle  bean. 

Poor  Man's  Bean,  or  Lentil  /Soup. — One  half  pound  of 
brown  lentils,  or  dried  beans  ;  one  carrot ;  four  cloves ; 
three  onions ;  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  ;  one  and  a 
half  ounces  of  dripping ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Wash  the  lentils  well  in  several  waters ;  let  them  then 
soak  in  two  quarts  of  water  for  twenty-four  hours.  When 
ready  to  make  the  soup,  cut  up  the  onion  and  carrot  in 
thin  slices,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  the  dripping.  Put 
them  into  a  pot  with  what  remains  of  the  dripping,  and 
add  the  lentils  and  the  water  in  which  they  were  steeped, 
also  the  herbs  and  cloves ;  boil  all  for  three  hours,  add- 
ing more  water  to  make  up  the  waste  from  boiling;  add 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and 
serve  in  a  soup  tureen  with  small  dice  of  fried  bread. 

Calves' -  Head  Soup.  —  Parboil  in  salt  and  water  half 
a  calf's   head,  nicely  cleaned  and  prepared;    cut  it  in 

1* 


10  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

little  dice  and  set  it  apart.  Put  some  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, stir  in  enough  browned  flour  to  make  a  roux ;  add 
an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  parsley, 
sweet-basil,  and  sweet-marjoram,  some  stalks  of  celery; 
one  pound  of  lean  ham  ;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  lean 
beef ;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  add  enough  bouillon 
to  make  your  soup  rich  and  thick ;  let  it  cook  two  hours ; 
strain  it  through  a  colander ;  return  it  to  the  saucepan ; 
add  your  calf's  head  cut  in  dice ;  some  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters;  and,  just  before  serving,  add 
a  glass  of  good  Madeira  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  lemon 
juice. 

Cherry  Soup. — Take  some  ripe  cherries  and  stem  them, 
crush  them  in  a  mortar,  cracking  the  kernels,  and  pour 
them  in  a  porcelain -lined  saucepan,  with  as  much  wine 
and  water  as  you  have  cherries ;  add  some  grated  lemon 
rind ;  let  it  boil  till  the  fruit  is  cooked  to  a  pulp ;  strain 
it  through  a  hair  sieve ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  add  some  cin- 
namon ;  warm  it,  and  serve  it  poured  over  fried  croutons 
of  bread. 

Beer  Soup. — Scorch  half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  in 
some  fresh  butter ;  add  a  quart  of  strong  beer,  as  much 
red  wine,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  cinnamon,  cloves,  and 
sugar;  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  pour  your  soup  over  crou- 
tons of  fried  bread  in  your  tureen. 

Bouillon,  Cold  (for  summer).  —  Make  a  strong  beef 
bouillon  according  to  the  receipt  given  for  clear  soup  &  la 
Virginie  •  when  sufficiently  strong  (and  for  this  purpose 
it  should  be  very  strong),  skim,  strain,  salt,  and  set  it  away 
to  cool.  When  quite  cold,  strain  again,  and  when  per- 
fectly clear,  heat  again,  and  add  enough  caramel  coloring 
to  give  it  the  right  color ;  then  remove  from  the  fire, 
strain,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  serve  ice  cold,  with  Pied- 
montese  (Italian)  bread,  browned. 


SOUPS.  11 

Bouillon  Blanc  (White  Soup). — Put  into  the  soup  pot 
two  knuckles  of  veal,  several  veal  bones,  and  a  chicken ; 
pour  over  them  four  quarts  of  water,  and  salt  slightly; 
when  the  soup  comes  to  a  boil  skim  carefully,  and  draw 
to  the  side  of  the  stove  where  it  will  simmer  but  not  boil ; 
keep  the  pot  three  fourths  covered ;  let  it  cook  very  slow- 
ly, arranging  the  position  of  the  pot  so  that,  if  possible,  it 
will  only  boil  on  one  side ;  half  an  hour  later  add  a  large 
carrot,  a  small  piece  of  white  turnip,  a  piece  of  celery,  two 
shallots,  and  a  tiny  bunch  of  parsley  ;  cook  slowly  until  all 
the  meat  has  fallen  from  the  bones,  and  is  completely 
boiled  to  rags ;  then  strain  the  bouillon,  first  through  a 
fine  sieve,  and  then  through  a  cloth,  and  set  it  away  to 
cool.     This  stock  may  be  used  for  all  white  soups. 

Bouillon  Succulent. — Put  into  the  soup  pot  four  and  a 
half  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  into  small  squares  ;  pour  over 
eight  quarts  of  cold  water ;  put  the  pot  on  the  fire,  and 
cook  slowly  as  above  directed ;  two  hours  afterwards  add 
the  bone  of  a  piece  of  roast  beef,  or  of  roast  leg  of  mut- 
ton ;  continue  to  cook  slowly  until  the  meat  is  boiled  ab- 
solutely to  rags,  or,  better  still,  to  shreds ;  then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  burned  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste ;  strain  and 
skim.     This  receipt  makes  a  very  good,  clear  bouillon. 

Julienne  Soup. — Clean  and  peel  two  large  carrots  and  a 
turnip ;  add  a  head  of  celery,  two  new  onions,  a  shallot, 
half  a  Savoy  cabbage,  a  fine  head  of  lettuce,  a  handful 
of  sorrel,  and  some  tender  green  pease ;  cut  the  vegeta- 
bles into  fine  shreds  about  two  inches  long. 

Put  the  onions  and  shallot  into  a  casserole  with  some 
butter ;  cook  for  a  few  minutes  over  a  moderate  fire ; 
then  add  the  carrots,  turnip,  and  celery ;  cook  for  a  few 
moments ;  add  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  pour 
over  them  the  third  of  a  quart  of  strained  and  clear  bouil- 
lon ;  cook  the  vegetables  in  this  until  the  bouillon  begins 
to  jelly ;  then  add  two  quarts  of  strong,  fresh  bouillon, 


12  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

boiling  hot;  draw  the  soup  pot  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  twenty-five  minutes  later  add  the  lettuce,  the  blanched 
cabbage,  and  last  of  all  the  raw  green  pease ;  cook  the 
vegetables  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  skim  the 
soup ;  add  the  chopped  sorrel  (well  blanched)  and  a  glass 
of  puree  of  fresh  green  pease;  mix  all  well  together,  and 
pour  into  the  soup  tureen. 

Julienne  a  la  Russe. — Cut  into  fine  shreds  a  carrot,  a 
small  turnip,  a  piece  of  celery,  a  large  radish,  two  onions, 
and  a  shallot ;  shred  also  some  mushrooms  (as  many  as  the 
other  vegetables). 

Fry  the  onions,  shallot,  and  other  vegetables  very  lightly 
in  butter ;  lay  them  on  paper  .until  the  grease  is  absorbed, 
and  then  put  them  in  a  casserole ;  pour  over  them  the 
third  of  a  quart  of  good  bouillon,  and  boil  until  the  bouil- 
lon jellies ;  then  poor  on  three  quarts  of  fresh  bouillon, 
boiling  hot ;  draw  the  casserole  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then 
strain  and  skim  the  soup ;  add  a  pinch  of  chopped  fennel, 
and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sour  cream  (strained) ;  pour  into 
the  soup  tureen,  and  serve.  In  Russia  a  plate  of  tiny 
pates,  croquettes,  or  rissoles,  are  handed  with  this  soup. 

Julienne  a  la  Polonaise. — Put  into  a  pot  four  handfuls 
of  dried  pease ;  two  handfuls  of  dried  mushrooms  ;  a  car- 
rot ;  part  of  a  head  of  celery ;  pour  over  these  vegetables 
four  quarts  of  water  (cold) ;  when  the  water  really  boils, 
draw  the  casserole  to  one  side  of  the  fire,  and  cook  the 
vegetables  slowly. 

Cut  into  shreds  a  shallot,  an  onion,  a  head  of  celery,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  piece  of  raw  beet ;  fry  all  lightly 
in  butter,  and  ten  minutes  after  pour  over  them  two  quarts 
of  the  vegetable  bouillon,  which  should  previously  have 
been  carefully  strained ;  when  this  begins  to  boil,  set  it 
where  it  will  only  simmer,  and  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  afterwards  add  half  a  winter  cabbage  shredded  and 


SOUPS.  13 

blanched  and  a  few  of  the  cooked  mushrooms;  in  half 
an  hour  add  some  strained  sour  cream,  and  a  pinch  of 
powdered  fennel,  as  for  Russian  julienne ;  pour  into  the 
soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  rissoles,  croquettes,  or  pates. 

Bouillon  Muldtre. — Take  the  remains  of  a  roast  tur- 
key, removing  the  stuffing ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  butter,  sliced  onion,  parsley,  a  slice  of  lean  ham, 
and  pepper;  let  it  cook,  and  add  sufficient  water  for  the 
soup ;  simmer  two  hours,  and  strain  ;  mash  to  a  smooth 
paste  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  stir  this  in  the 
bouillon  ;  chop  up  the  whites  in  little  dice,  add,  and 
serve. 

Corn  and  Tomato  Soup. — Boil  three  pounds  of  beef  in 
four  quarts  of  water,  and  add  a  dozen  fine  large  tomatoes ; 
an  hour  before  serving,  strain,  and  pass  the  tomatoes 
through  a  colander ;  return  soup  to  the  fire ;  boil  half  a 
dozen  ears  of  corn  in  a  little  salt  and  water;  when  done 
cut  the  corn  from  the  cob ;  pour  your  corn  in  the  soup ; 
add  a  teaspoonf ul  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper ;  let  it 
boil  up,  and  serve. 

Casa  linga. — Make  a  good  rich  broth.  Chop  cabbage, 
carrots,  onions,  turnips,  in  fact  any  vegetables  you  have ; 
mince  a  clove  of  garlic  with  a  pinch  of  lavender,  and 
mash  some  Irish  potatoes ;  put  all  this  in  your  soup ;  let 
it  cook  slowly ;  add  macaroni,  pastini,  or  vermicelli ;  stir 
in  a  lump  of  butter;  season  highly  with  black  and  red 
pepper ;  salt  to  taste,  and  serve.  This  soup  should  be 
cooked  five  or  six  hours. 

Green-Pea  Soup. — Make  a  rich  broth,  to  which  you 
add  a  slice  of  lean  ham ;  boil  the  green  pease  in  salt  and 
water ;  pass  through  a  colander ;  add  a  spoonful  of  but- 
ter ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over 
fried  croutons  of  bread  in  the  soup  tureen. 


14  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Onion  Soup  d  la  Creole. — Slice  several  large  onions, 
fry  them  in  a  saucepan  with  butter ;  sprinkle  with  a  little 
flour,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  let  the  onions 
color  a  little,  then  stir  in  a  quart  of  rich  sweet  milk,  and 
let  it  boil  up  two  or  three  times ;  strain  through  a  colan- 
der, and  pour  over  fried  croutons  in  a  soup  tureen. 

This  soup  is  admirable  when  one  is  fatigued. 

Cheese  Soup. — Make  a  good  bouillon  of  onion  or  cab- 
bage soup ;  grate  some  cheese  in  the  bottom  of  your  soup 
tureen  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  bread,  then  a 
layer  of  cheese,  then  a  layer  of  cabbage,  and  again  some 
cheese ;  before  pouring  the  bouillon  in  the  tureen,  pour 
in  two  glasses  of  cream ;  do  not  salt  the  bouillon  on  ac- 
count of  the  cheese.  Parmesan  is  the  best  cheese ;  you  can 
keep  it  a  long  time  in  salt,  or  wrapped  in  a  greased  cloth. 

Cherry  Soup  (German  receipt). — Stone  and  stem  three 
fourths  of  a  quart  of  cherries  (sour),  and  put  two  thirds 
of  the  quantity  in  an  earthen  pot,  with  a  quart  of  warm 
water,  and  a  little  zest  of  lemon,  also  a  stick  of  cinna- 
mon ;  cook  over  a  quick  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  then  add 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  flour  (of  the  best  quality) 
mixed  with  cold  water;  ten  minutes  after  put  the  cher- 
ries and  liquid  into  a  larger  casserole  ;  add  two  or  three 
quarts  of  good  broth,  the  rest  of  the  cherries,  and  a  little 
sugar ;  when  the  soup  boils,  set  the  pot  where  it  will  sim- 
mer. Meanwhile  pound  two  handfuls  of  cherry  kernels 
to  a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  casserole  with  two  or 
three  glasses  of  Bordeaux ;  add  some  bouillon  ;  stir  steadi- 
ly, and  when  quite  hot  remove  from  the  fire,  strain,  and 
add  to  the  soup ;  serve  with  the  soup  a  plate  of  browned 
biscuits  cut  into  dice. 

Puree  of  Chicken.  —  Take  a  large  boiled  chicken,  re- 
move all  bones,  skin,  and  fat,  and  put  the  chicken  into 
a  mortar  together  with  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled 


SOUPS.  15 

eggs ;  chop  and  pound  until  the  chicken  has  been  re- 
duced to  the  consistency  of  paste;  then  add  some  bread 
crumbs  soaked  in  cream,  and  twelve  blanched  sweet  al- 
monds; again  chop  and  pound  until  the  whole  has  been 
reduced  to  the  consistency  of  a  smooth,  thick  paste  ;  place 
this  paste  in  an  earthen  bowl,  which  should  previously 
have  been  well  rubbed  with  garlic,  and  add  little  by  little, 
stirring  all  the  time,  some  good  chicken  broth  ;  take  care 
to  have  the  puree  neither  too  thin  nor  too  thick ;  it 
should  be  as  thick  as  custard ;  when  it  is  of  the  proper 
consistency  strain  it  through  a  tin  strainer ;  pour  it  into 
an  earthen  stewpan  ;  salt  to  taste,  and  cook  a  bain-marie. 

Cucwnher  Soup,  Cold. — Put  into  a  stewpan  three  pounds 
of  fish,  half  a  pound  of  absolutely  lean  ham,  two  large 
cucumbers  peeled  and  sliced,  a  small  bag  of  celery  seed,  a 
minced  shallot,  and  two  quarts  of  water. 

The  fish,  of  course,  should  be  skinned  and  cleaned,  and 
pulled  to  pieces  (with  silver  or  wooden  forks),  the  ham 
chopped  fine ;  boil  until  the  fish  and  ham  are  in  rags, 
then  strain  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  when  quite  cold  skim 
and  strain  again,  and,  if  the  soup  is  entirely  clear  and 
freed  from  fat,  pour  into  the  soup  tureen,  which  should 
previously  have  been  well  rubbed  with  garlic ;  have  ready 
some  sliced  cucumber  prepared  as  for  the  garspacho  ;  i.  e., 
peeled,  sliced  very  thinly,  soaked  in  ice -water  for  two 
hours,  and .  dressed  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt ;  add 
these  to  the  soup,  and  also  some  dice  of  dried  bread  dipped 
in  lemon  juice.  If  properly  made,  this  is  a  delicious  soup. 
It  is  to  be  eaten  frost  cold. 

Chicken  Soup,  Cold. — Two  young  fowls ;  one  head  of 
celery ;  half  a  cup  of  rice ;  one  gallon  of  water ;  quarter 
pound  of  cooked  ham. 

Cut  the  fowls  to  pieces ;  chop  the  celery  fine,  and  put 
it  with  the  fowls  into  the  pot  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them ;  stew  for  an  hour,  and  then  add  the  remainder  of 


16  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

the  water,  boiling  hot ;  when  the  soup  has  boiled  in  all  for 
two  hours  and  a  half  strain  it,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool ; 
when  quite  cold  and  clear  add  some  roasted  parsley  pow- 
dered tine,  and  the  ham,  which  should  previously  have 
been  dried  in  the  oven  and  grated  fine;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  stir  in  last  of  all  a  pint  of  rich  fresh  cream, 
and  some  bread  dice  dipped  in  lemon  juice ;  eat  cold. 

Clear  Soup  a  la  Virginie. — One  knuckle  of  veal ;  one 
chicken,  stripped  of  skin  and  fat ;  one  head  of  celery  ; 
half  an  onion ;  three  peppercorns,  and  two  cloves ;  one 
sprig  of  parsley ;  one  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  cover  with 
three  quarts  of  clear  cold  water. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  your  soup  pot,  which  must 
be  placed  on  the  back  of  the  stove ;  let  it  cook  slowly 
and  steadily  for  six  hours,  and  skim  often  ;  it  must  never 
be  allowed  to  boil ;  ..when  the  meat  is  white,  and  fallen  to 
rags,  take  it  out ;  strain  the  soup,  and  clarify  if  necessary  ; 
serve  entirely  clear,  or  with  shreds  of  boiled  carrot. 

Consomme. — Put  a  chicken  and  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a 
soup  pot ;  cover  with  cold  bouillon ;  put  it  over  a  slow 
fire ;  let  the  bouillon  heat  slowly,  and  you  obtain  a  clear, 
substantial  consomme  •  skim  and  add  vegetables,  as  for  a 
pot  aufeu. 

Tomato  Soup.  —  Peel  your  tomatoes;  boil  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  an  onion,  a  soup -bunch,  celery,  salt  and 
pepper ;  strain  them ;  add  a  little  pinch  of  flour,  and  a 
lump  of  butter,  and  serve  poured  over  fried  croutons  in 
your  soup  tureen. 

Irish  Potato  Soup. — Peel  and  boil  your  potatoes  with 
an  onion,  a  soup-bunch,  salt  and  pepper;  press  your  po- 
tatoes through  a  colander ;  thin  your  puree  with  rich 
milk,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter;  let  it  heat  well,  and 
serve. 


SOUPS.  17 

Consomme  a  la  Regale. — Prepare  a  strong,  clear  con- 
somme after  the  receipt  for  bouillon  succulent ;  prepare 
also  a  hard  custard,  omitting  the  sugar,  and  adding  a 
soupgon  of  gelatine  to  make  it  quite  firm ;  when  this  is 
cold  and  fi rra,  cut  it  into  squares  about  half  an  inch  thick 
and  large ;  when  the  soup  is  in  the  soup  tureen  drop  in 
the  squares. 

Consomme  with  Poached  Eggs. — Prepare  a  consomme 
as  above,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  drop  in  some  well- 
poached  eggs. 

Consomme  aux  Jacobins. — Put  into  the  soup  pot  a  va- 
riety of  minced  vegetables ;  add  some  pieces  of  raw  veal, 
poultry,  or  game  (the  greater  the  variety  the  better  the 
soup),  also  two  or  three  roast  pheasants;  pour  over  them 
a  quart  of  bouillon,  and  boil  down  over  a  clear  fire  ;  when 
the  bouillon  has  boiled  away  add  five  quarts  of  bouillon, 
and  a  glass  of  wine;  skim  carefully,  and  add  half  a  head 
of  celery  and  some  sweet  herbs ;  cook  slowly  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  for  an  hour ;  then  let  it  cool,  and  when  al- 
most tepid  strain,  and  clarify  it  carefully  with  some 
raw  hare,  a  little  lean  raw  veal,  two  whole  eggs,  and  a 
little  Madeira,  Meanwhile  have  ready  some  forcemeat 
balls  made  in  the  following  manner :  chop  fine  about 
six  ounces  of  lean  ham  (cooked),  and  mix  with  it  two 
spoonfuls  of  bechamel;  two  of  tomato  sauce,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne;  pass  all  through  a  sieve,  and  then  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  Madeira;  six  ditto  of  good  consomme; 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  two  whole  eggs ;  fill  with  this 
some  small,  round,  buttered  moulds,  and  cook  them  a  bain- 
marie;  when  cooked  divide  each  ball  neatly  into  four 
quarters ;  fill  the  soup  tureen  with  the  consomme  and  drop 
in  the  Jacobins ;  add,  also,  a  cupful  of  freshly  cooked  green 
pease. 

Plain  Consomme. — Proceed  as  for  good  stock,  substi- 


18  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

tuting  for  the  ham  a  good-sized  chicken,  and  omitting  the 
onions;  skim, strain,  and  color  with  caramel  coloring. 

Meat  Soups. 

Consomme  d  V  Imperatrice. — Two  quarts  of  water ;  three 
pounds  of  lean  beef ;  half  a  pound  of  roasted  chicken ; 
two  carrots;  two  leeks;  two  onions;  two  cloves;  soup- 
bunch  ;  salt  to  taste ;  cook  eight  hours,  skim,  and  serve. 

Careme  recommends  always  that  a  chicken  should  be 
roasted  till  half  done  on  the  spit,  before  boiling  for  soup. 
It  gives  a  better  taste  and  color. 

Soup  Made  in  an  Hour. — Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
beef  in  small  pieces;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  carrots, 
sliced  onions,  a  little  lard,  and  half  a  glass  of  water;  let  it 
simmer  and  steam  fifteen  minutes,  until  it  begins  to  stick 
to  the  bottom  of  the, saucepan  ;  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour ;  strain  through  a  colander,  and  serve. 

Corn  Soup.  —  One  can  of  corn;  half  a  quart  of  rich 
milk ;  half  a  quart  of  water ;  three  eggs,  well  beaten ;  a 
little  rolled  cracker ;  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Put  the  milk  and  water  into  a  porcelain-lined  stewpan  ; 
when  warm  add  the  corn  ;  boil  ten  minutes ;  then  stir  in 
the  beaten  eggs  ;  add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  rolled  cracker. 

Dried-Pea  Soup. — One  gallon  of  water ;  one  quart  of 
split  pease,  soaked  over-night;  one  pound  of  salt  pork, 
cut  into  dice;  half  a  pound  of  lean  beef;  one  head  of 
celery. 

Boil  all  together  slowly  until  the  liquid  does  not  ex- 
ceed two  quarts ;  pour  into  a  colander,  and  press  through 
it  with  a  silver  spoon  ;  return  to  the  pot,  and  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  a  little 
powdered  parsley  ;  serve  with  dice  of  fried  bread. 


SOUPS.  19 

Parsley  Cream  Soup,  Cold. — Take  a  quart  of  the  very 
best  fresh  milk,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  warm,  not  boil, 
with  a  slice  of  onion,  a  small  bit  of  cayenne  pod,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  salt  to  taste ;  when 
scalding  hot,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  rice  flour 
wet  with  cold  milk ;  stir  until  smoothly  dissolved ;  then 
allow  it  to  boil  up  once  ;  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  strain 
into  the  soup  tureen,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool ;  when  per- 
fectly cold  add  a  large  handful  of  roast  parsley,  crum- 
bled fine ;  sift  it  into  the  soup,  a  little  at  a  time,  stir- 
ring steadily  one  way  -until  the  soup  is  delicately  colored  ; 
serve  frost  cold. 

Celery  Cream  Soup,  Cold. — Take  a  quart  of  the  best 
fresh  milk,  and  put  it  on  a  fire  to  boil,  with  a  head  of 
good  celery  chopped  fine,  two  or  three  peppercorns,  and 
salt  to  taste ;  when  heated  almost  to  boiling,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  rice 
flour  wet  with  cold  water ;  stir  carefully,  and,  as  soon  as 
the  soup  has  assumed  the  consistency  of  cream,  take  it 
from  the  fire ;  strain  it  into  the  soup  tureen,  and  set  it 
away  to  cool ;  eat  frost  cold.  Both  the  above  soups 
should  be  cooked  &  bain-marie. 

Sorrel  Soup,  Cold. — Take  a  quantity  of  fresh  sorrel, 
some  chervil,  beet  tops,  and  several  heads  of  crisp  lettuce, 
some  button  onions  chopped  fine,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley ; 
put  all  into  a  stewpan  with  enough  water  to  keep  them 
from  burning,  and,  when  nearly  cooked,  add  some  good 
bouillon,  which  has  been  skimmed  and  strained  until  it  is 
thoroughly  freed  from  fat ;  stir  this  well  into  the  vegeta- 
ble soup ;  then  remove  the  stewpan  from  the  fire,  and 
strain  the  soup  into  a  bowl;  when  quite  cold  it  should 
again  be  strained,  salted  and  peppered  to  taste ;  some  very 
thin  slices  of  lemon  should  be  put  into  the  tureen  to  be 
served  with  the  soup. 


20  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cordiale  alia  fflarentina,  Cold.  —  Prepare  a  bouillon 
exactly  as  for  a  hot  "  Cordiale,"  and  when  it  is  cold, 
strained,  and  perfectly  clear,  add  (in  the  proportion  of 
an  egg  for  each  guest)  some  eggs  well  beaten,  and,  lastly, 
some  lemon  juice,  and  salt  to  taste ;  serve  at  once. 

Cockie-leekie  Soup. — Put  into  an  earthen  pot  a  knuckle 
of  veal,  the  same  of  ham,  and  a  large  chicken  cut  up  with 
its  liver  and  lights ;  add  five  quarts  of  water,  and  the  mo- 
ment the  soup  begins  to  boil  set  it  where  it  can  only  sim- 
mer ;  add  an  onion,  a  head  of  celery,  a  carrot,  a  turnip, 
and  two  cloves ;  when  the  meat  is  cooked  pour  the  bouil- 
lon into  another  casserole,  skim,  and  strain  it,  and  add 
eight  small  shallots  peeled  and  cut  in  half;  cook  slowly. 
Meanwhile  chop  into  dice  the  chicken  and  ham  ;  keep  hot 
in  a  little  bouillon,  and  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve, 
put  the  meat  into  the  soup  tureen  ;  pour  over  it  the  bouil- 
lon and  shallots,  and  serve  hot. 

Scotch  Broth.  —  Cut  a  shoulder  of  mutton  into  two 
parts,  wash  carefully  in  tepid  water,  and  put  into  an 
earthen  pot  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  five  quarts  of  water ; 
when  it  boils,  skim,  and  set  on  the  stove  where  it  can  only 
simmer ;  add  five  large  carrots,  a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery, 
and  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme,  two  cloves,  and  a 
handful  of  pearl  barley  ;  cook  slowly  for  two  hours  and 
a  half ;  then  take  out  the  meat,  bone  it,  and  cut  it  into 
dice ;  add  to  the  bouillon  two  small  shallots,  chopped  fine, 
and  fried  lightly  in  butter ;  take  out  the  other  vegetables, 
chop  fine  and  return  to  the  soup,  together  with  the  meat ; 
serve  all  together  in  the  soup  tureen. 

Hodge  Podge. — Put  into  an  earthen  pot  two  and  a  quarter 
pounds  of  beef,  half  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  and  a  pinch  of 
coarse  salt ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  skim,  and  set  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  where  it  can  only  simmer ;  an  hour  and  a  half 
later  add  all  the  young  vegetables  which  are  in  season, 


SOUPS.  21 

cabbages,  lettuce,  celery,  onions,  carrots,  beets,  tomatoes, 
turnips,  pease,  and  asparagus  ;  cut  all  into  dice,  and  of  the 
asparagus  use  only  the  points.  These  vegetables,  of  course, 
must  be  added  in  order,  those  which  take  longest  to  cook 
being  the  first  put  in ;  at  the  last  moment  take  out  the 
meat,  thicken  the  bouillon  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  arrow- 
root, and  serve  with  the  vegetables. 

Deer's-Head  Soup  d  la  Malmesbury. — Take  a  young 
deer's  head,  skin  it,  bone  it,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  and  cook  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour ;  then  take  it  out,  dry  and  scrape  the  meat,  and 
cut  into  four  parts ;  place  these  in  a  casserole,  add  a  ham 
bone  (raw),  some  raw  veal,  some  vegetables,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  four  quarts  of  good  bouillon,  and  a  bottle 
of  white  wine ;  skim  carefully  until  the  soup  boils,  then 
set  it  on  one  side  of  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  very 
slowly ;  when  the  meat  is  quite  tender  take  it  out,  cut  it 
into  square  dice,  and  keep  it  hot,  with  a  little  Madeira 
wine ;  strain  the  broth.  Meanwhile,  while  the  soup  is 
cooking,  cook  also  in  butter  a  chopped  onion,  a  chopped 
carrot,  a  piece  of  celery,  and  a  little  ham  chopped  fine ; 
dust  all  with  three  teaspoonf uls  of  arrow-root,  and  add,  lit- 
tle by  little,  two  quarts  of  the  soup ;  the  moment  it  comes 
to  the  boil  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  stove,  and  add  a  bunch 
of  marigold,  thyme,  and  laurel ;  twenty-five  minutes  after- 
wards skim  and  strain  the  soup,  add  the  meat  and  Madeira 
wine  and  six  button  mushrooms  chopped  fine  ;  boil  again 
for  twelve  minutes,  skimming  carefully,  and  at  the  last 
minute  add  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Soupe  d  la  Dolgovouki. — Prepare  two  or  three  quarts  of 
strong  chicken  broth,  strain,  and  keep  it  where  it  will  not 
boil ;  chop  fine  one  pound  of  boiled  ham,  and  mix  with 
some  onions  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  and  bind  all  with 
bechamel  sauce;  some  minutes  afterwards  add  the  yolks 
of  four  or  five  eggs,  and  put  all  into  a  casserole ;  when 


22  THE  UNKIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ready  to  serve  strain  the  broth,  and  mix  in  the  thicken- 
ing, add  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  the  breasts 
of  four  boiled  chickens  chopped  fine. 

Consomme  aux  Ravioles  de  Gibier. — Prepare  two  or  three 
quarts  of  consomme  of  game ;  skin  and  bone  a  raw  par- 
tridge ;  chop  it  fine  and  work  to  a  smooth  paste  with  half 
the  quantity  of  calves'  brains,  cooked,  and  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  beef  marrow  and  parmesan  ;  when  smoothly  mixed 
bind  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  prepare ;  with  this 
paste  make  five  or  six  dozen  tiny  ravioles  /  five  minutes  be- 
fore serving  drop  the  ravioles  into  boiling  water  (salted),  to 
which  you  have  added  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  bouillon  ; 
cook  three  minutes,  drain  the  ravioles,  range  them  in  the 
soup  tureen,  pour  over  the  consomme  of  game,  and  serve. 

Fish  Soup. — Choose  a  large,  fine  fish,  and  when  thor- 
oughly cleaned  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  water,  measuring  the  water  as  follows :  for  each  pound" 
of  fish  one  quart  of  water ;  let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  fish 
is  boiled  to  rags  and  is  tasteless ;  then  take  out  fish  and 
bones  and  throw  into  the  broth  some  butter  in  which  on- 
ions and  sweet  herbs  have  previously  been  cooked ;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  serve  with  small  squares  of  fried  bread  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon. 

Fish  Stock. — Put  into  a  saucepan  some  good  butter, 
sliced  onions,  a  little  dried  okra,  and  some  sliced  tomatoes ; 
add  as  many  different  kinds  of  small  fish  as  you  can  get — 
oysters,  clams,  smelts,  prawns,  crabs,  shrimps,  and  all  kinds 
of  pan  fish ;  cook  all  together,  until  the  onions  are  well 
browned,  then  add  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  seasoning  to 
taste,  and  some  fish  bouillon  (as  above);  after  this  has 
cooked  for  another  half  hour,  pound  with  a  wooden  pestle, 
strain,  and  cook  again  until  it  jellies. 


SOUPS.  23 

Lobster  Soup,  Bisque. — Pick  out  all  the  meat  from  a 
boiled  lobster,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  butter  till  a  fine  orange-colored  pulp  is  obtained  ;  to  this 
add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  soupgon  of  grated  nutmeg ;  take  as 
much  rolled  bread  crumb  as  there  is  lobster  pulp,  soak 
them  in  stock,  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  amal- 
gamate with  it  a  heaped  tablespoonf ul  of  sifted  flour,  mix 
the  lobster  pulp  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  put  both  in 
the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  stirring  the  contents  until  they 
thicken  and  boil ;  draw  it  then  on  one  side,  and  carefully 
skim  off  superfluous  fat ;  then  strain  the  soup  through  a 
hair  sieve,  make  it  boiling  hot,  and  serve  with  small  dice 
of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Bisque  of  Shrimps,  Prawns,  or  Crabs,  is  made  in  pre- 
cisely the  same  way,  but  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  a 
liqueur-glass  of  sherry  or  Moiss  dlka  just  before  serving. 

.Bisque  d  la  Creole  (Madame  Eugene). — Take  a  peck  of 
fat  crawfish,  wash  them  through  several  waters  to  clean 
them,  and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  which  you  use  later 
for  your  bouillon ;  take  off  the  heads ;  peel  your  crawfish ; 
reserve  twenty- four  heads  to  stuff  for  your  bisque  ;  take 
all  the  rest  of  the  heads  and  all  the  peeling,  carefully  re- 
moving the  sand-bng,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar;  pour 
them  in  the  bouillon,  in  which  they  were  boiled,  with  a 
soup-bunch,  a  head  of  celery,  salt,  and  pepper;  let  it  sim- 
mer slowly  two  hours ;  in  the  meantime  pound  the  tails 
of  the  crawfish  you  have  peeled  in  a  mortar,  mix  them 
with  butter,  chopped  onions,  chopped  ham,  salt,  and  pep- 
per; bind  it  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  fry  it; 
stuff  the  heads  with  this ;  strain  the  bouillon,  make  a  soup, 
in  which  you  fry  a  chopped  onion,  till  it  colors ;  strain 
this  in  your  bouillon,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  into  your 
tureen  over  the  stuffed  heads  and  fried  croutons  of  bread  ; 
a  moment  before  serving  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
red-pepper  powder  that  is  used  for  coloring. 


24  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 


Bouillabaisse,  New  Orleans. — Take  several  kinds  of  fish ; 
skin,  bone,  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg ;  mince  an 
onion,  a  tiny  piece  of  garlic,  one  large  tomato,  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley ;  put  the  whole  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  tum- 
bler of  the  finest  olive-oil,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  one  of 
mixed  spice  ;  when  the  onions  are  slightly  colored,  add  the 
fish,  salt  to  taste,  and  add  an  infinitesimally  small  piece  of 
powdered  saffron,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  come  up  to,  but  not  cover  the  fish ;  or,  add 
water  in  which  clams  have  previously  been  boiled;  this 
gives  the  bouillabaisse  an  exquisite  flavor;  let  the  bouilla- 
baisse now  boil  fast  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  liquor 
is  reduced  by  one  fourth  ;  then  serve  the  fish  in  a  very  hot 
dish,  and  the  liquor  in  another,  over  small  thick  squares 
of  light  white  bread  toasted  on  both  sides. 

Bouillabaisse  a  la  Marseillais. — Take  six  pounds  of  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  fish  ;  clean,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and 
cut  the  fish  in  slices  two  inches  long ;  put  four  ounces  of 
olive-oil  in  a  saucepan,  with  two  sliced  onions,  four  toma- 
toes, a  slice  of  lean  ham  chopped  up ;  fry  them,  and  add 
two  glasses  of  bouillon,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
let  it  cook  an  hour,  and  strain  through  a  colander ;  put 
this  sauce  in  another  saucepan,  and  lay  in  it  your  slices  of 
fish  nicely  prepared  ;  let  it  cook  gently,  and  add  a  glass  of 
good  white  wine;  dress  your  fish  on  a  dish  and  pour  this 
sauce,  in  which  it  has  cooked,  over  it ;  in  another  sauce- 
pan you  must  put  the  heads,  the  bones,  and  the  skins  of 
the  fish,  a  slice  of  ham,  two  sliced  onions,  tomatoes,  four 
cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  two  quarts  of  water ;  boil  this  an  hour  and  a  half,  skim, 
and,  just  before  straining,  put  in  a  pinch  of  saffron  ;  strain 
and  add  half  a  bottle  of  the  best  white  wine ;  have  slices 
of  bread  nicely  toasted,  and  serve  with  each  spoonful  of 
soup  a  slice  of  fish  and  a  slice  of  toasted  bread.  The  fish, 
on  a  separate  dish,  should  be  served  at  the  same  time 
with  the  soup. 


SOUPS.  25 

Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole. — Slice  and  fry  some  onions  in 
a  saucepan,  with  sliced  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pepper ;  clean 
and  scale  your  fish  ;  cut  it  in  slices ;  put  it  in  the  saucepan 
with  the  onions  and  tomatoes  and  some  water,  add  a  little 
chopped  parsley ;  cook  till  the  fish  is  done ;  then  add  a 
glass  of  claret,  or  white  wine ;  let  it  boil  up ;  remove  the 
fish,  which  you  dress  in  a  dish,  on  slices  of  toasted  bread ; 
strain  the  sauce,  and  serve  poured  over  the  fish. 

Couribouillon  for  Sea  Fish.  — Boil  in  equal  parts  of 
milk  and  water;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  the 
fish  becomes  white  and  firm.  Serve  with  Harvey  or 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

Clam  Soup. — Fifty  clams ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  one  pint 
of  water ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  the  clams  into 
a  large  pan  or  tray,  and  pour  cold  water  over  them  ;  as  fast 
as  they  unclose,  take  them  out,  saving  all  the  liquor ;  put 
all  the  liquor  of  the  fifty  clams  on  the  fire  with  a  dozen 
whole  peppers,  a  few  bits  of  cayenne  pods,  half  a  dozen 
blades  of  mace,  and  salt  to  taste ;  let  it  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes, keeping  it  closely  covered ;  then  put  in  the  clams, 
and  let  it  boil  for  another  half-hour,  still  covered  ;  at  this 
point  add  the  milk,  which  should  previously  have  been 
heated  to  scalding  in  another  vessel ;  boil  up  again,  taking 
care  that  the  soup  does  not  burn,  and  put  in  the  butter; 
then  serve  without  delay.  If  you  desire  a  thicker  soup, 
stir  into  the  quart  of  hot  milk  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
rice  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

Catfish  Soup.  —  Six  catfish,  each  weighing  one  half 
pound ;  half  pound  of  salt  pork,  one  pint  of  milk ;  two 
eggs  ;  one  head  of  celery ;  one  onion.  Skin  and  clean  the 
catfish  and  cut  off  the  heads;  then  bone  and  cut  up  the 
fish,  and  chop  the  pork  into  small  pieces ;  put  into  the  pot 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs,  the  onion, 
and  the  celerv^  boil  to  rags,  then  strain,  and  return  to  the 

2 


26  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

saucepan ;  add  the  milk,  then  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth, 
and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  up  once, 
and  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread  on  top. 

Eel  Soup  is  made  as  above,  but  must  cook  longer. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. — Turtle ;  a  glass  of  good  Madeira ; 
two  onions ;  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  juice  of  one  lemon  ; 
live  quarts  of  water.  Chop  up  all  the  turtle  meat  with 
the  entrails  and  bones;  the  fat  must  be  set  aside;  put  the 
meat,  entrails,  bones,  etc.,  into  a  pot ;  a,dd  the  herbs,  on- 
ions, pepper,  and  salt,  and  four  quarts  of  water ;  stew  stead- 
ily for  five  hours,  never  ceasing  the  boiling  during  all  the 
time ;  then  strain,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  put  in 
the  green  fat,  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long.  The  green  fat 
should  previously  have  been  simmered  for  one  hour  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  Thicken  with  browned  flour,  return  to 
the  soup  pot,  and  simmer  gently  an  hour  longer.  If  there 
are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for 
four  hours,  and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up ; 
if  not,  put  in  the  forcemeat  balls,  then  the  juice  of  the 
lemon,  and  the  wine;  beat  up  once,  and  pour  out.  Some 
cooks  add  the  forcemeat  before  straining,  boiling  all  to- 
gether five  hours ;  then  strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the 
green  fat,  cut  into  strips  an  inch  long.  This  is  the  cus- 
tom followed  at  the  lord-mayor's  dinner  in  London. 

For  the  mock  eggs,  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten  ;  rub  the  boiled  eggs 
into  a  paste  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  butter,  bind  with  a  raw 
egg,  roll  into  pellets  shaped  like  turtles'  eggs,  and  poach  in 
beef  broth  (boiling)  for  two  minutes  before  dropping  into 
the  soup. 

Forcemeat  Balls  for  the  above. — Six  tablespoonfuls  of 
turtle  meat,  chopped  very  fine ;  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  yolks 
only  ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  butter ;  a  little  oyster  liquor ; 
season  with  cayenne,  mace,  and  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  white 


SOUPS.  27 

sugar ;  a  pinch  of  salt.  Rub  the  meat  and  hard-boiled  egg 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  butter  and  oyster  liquor ;  sea- 
son, bind  with  beaten  egg,  form  into  balls,  roll  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  powdered  cracker,  fry  in  butter,  and  throw 
into  the  soup  at  the  last  moment. 

Turtle  Soup  from  Dried  Turtle. — Soak  in  cold  water 
for  twenty-four  hours,  then  place  in  a  stewpan  and  cover 
with  fresh  water ;  boil  quietly  for  eight  hours,  then  cut 
into  pieces  an  inch  square,  and  add  this  turtle  meat  and 
liquid  to  a  strong  consomme  of  clear  stock,  made  thus: 
For  one  pound  of  dried  turtle  :  five  pounds  of  gravy  beef, 
two  pounds  of  leg  veal,  one  calf's  foot,  and  a  half  pound  of 
lean  ham.  Cover  with  water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  remov- 
ing the  scum ;  add'  three  carrots,  two  onions,  one  head  of 
celery,  and  a  packet  of  turtle  herbs  and  spices ;  let  all  sim- 
mer gently  for  eight  hours ;  strain  through  a  fine  cloth 
into  a  saucepan,  and  add  the  turtle  meat  and  liquor;  let 
all  boil  together  until  the  turtle  meat  is  quite  tender  ;  add 
a  half-pint  of  good  sherry,  and  the  soup  is  ready  for  use. 
This  will  make  four  quarts  of  good  soup. 

Terra-pin  Soup. — Clean  and  cut  up  a  large  terrapin  with 
the  entrails  and  bones;  remove  the  gall  carefully;  put 
your  terrapin  in  a  soup  pot  with  four  quarts  of  water,  a 
soup  bunch,  a  head  of  celery,  onions,  thyme,  parsley,  salt, 
and  pepper;  let  it  simmer  four  hours;  do  not  let  it  cease 
one  moment  to  cook ;  strain  your  soup,  thicken  it  with 
browned  flour,  return  it  to  the  soup  pot ;  tie  up  in  a  muslin 
bag  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  a  cracked 
nutmeg ;  let  it  simmer  an  hour  in  the  soup,  then  remove. 
If  the  turtle  has  eggs,  boil  them  and  throw  in  the  yolks ; 
if  there  are  no  eggs,  use  forcemeat  balls ;  add  a  glass  of 
Madeira  and  thin  slices  of  lemon  before  serving.  The 
forcemeat  bails  are  made  by  rubbing  two  hard-boiled 
yolks  to  a  paste,  with  butter,  and  half  a  dozen  spoonfuls 
of  the  turtle  meat,  chopped  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with 


28  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

salt  and  pepper ;  bind  with  beaten  eggs ;  make  into  balls  ; 
dip,  first,  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  powdered  cracker,  and 
fry  in  butter. 

Oyster  Soup. — Two  quarts  of  oysters  with  their  liquor ; 
one  quart  of  milk;  two  tablespoon  fuls  of  butter;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  water. 

Pat  the  strained  oyster  liquor  and  the  water  into  a  sauce- 
pan, which  is  set  in  a  larger  one  nearly  full  of  boiling  wa- 
ter;  heat  slowly,  and,  when  the  liquor  begins  to  boil,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  in  the  milk ;  then  stir 
constantly  until  the  soup  nears  the  boiling-point  again ; 
then  throw  in  the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew  until  they 
plump  and  ruffle  at  the  edge ;  then  put  in  the  butter  and 
stir  well  until  it  is  melted ;  serve  immediately. 

Ouka  (Russian  national  soup). — Of  all  the  admirable 
soups  prepared  in  Russia,  the  ouka  is  the  best.  It  is  pre- 
pared with  small  sterlets,  cooked  the  instant  they  are  killed. 
As  the  sterlet,  however,  exists  only  in  Russia,  it  is  only 
possible  to  reproduce  an  imitation  of  the  ouka  in  other 
countries.  The  best  imitation  is  that  made  with  fresh 
brook  trout;  but  they  must  be  brought  into  the  kitchen 
alive,  and  cooked  the  moment  they  are  killed.  Prepare 
first  two  full  quarts  of  fish  stock  (using -for  the  ouka  fresh- 
water fish.  Meanwhile,  cut  into  fine  shreds,  as  for  Juli- 
enne, some  celer}'  and  parsley  ;  blanch,  drain,  and  fry 
lightly  in  butter;  then  cook  them  in  a  little  bouillon. 
Prepare,  also,  two  dozen  tiny  forcemeat  balls  of  whit- 
ings and  lobster-butter  mixed ;  clarify  the  bouillon,  add  a 
glass  of  good  white  wine,  and  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  Madeira. 
When  the  work  of  preparation  has  advanced  to  this  point, 
kill  three  fat,  lively,  middling-sized  brook  trout.  They 
must  be  of  a  good  red  color.  Bone,  remove  the  heads  and 
tails,  cut  into  small  pieces,  clean,  skin,  and  sponge  them. 
When  the  fish  consomme  is  clarified  and  strained,  put  a 
small  portion  of  it  into  a  casserole,  add  two  glasses  of 


SOUPS.  29 

sweet  champagne;  when,  it  comes. to  a  boil  drop  in  the 
pieces  of  trout;  when  they  begin  to  boil 'take  the  cas- 
serole from  the  fire  and  cover  it ;  then  strain  and  skim  the 
liquor  in  which  they  have  been  cooked,  trim  the  pieces  of 
trout  neatly,  and  arrange  them  in  a  very  hot  dish,  pouring 
over  them  the  sauce  in  which  they  were  cooked  ;  drop  into 
the  boiling  bouillon  the  vegetables,  add  the  little  force- 
meat balls  (which  should  previously  have  been  cooked  a 
bain-marie),  and  pour  at  once  into  the  soup  tureen ;  send 
the  trout  separately.  It  should  be  put  into  the  soup  by 
the  guests  themselves.  In  Russia  the  servant  who  hands 
the  soup  is  followed  instantly  by  another  handing  the  trout. 
Soup  so  made  and  served  is  ouJca,  and  is  surpassed  by  no 
other  soup  man  has  invented. 

Garspacho  (Spanish  Soup  Salad).  —  Two  and  a  half 
quarts  fresh  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  thinly ;  one  large 
cucumber  peeled  and  sliced  thinly  ;  a  half  clove  of  garlic ; 
one  gallon  of  water. 

Stew  slowly  for  an  hour;  then  add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar;  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  then  take  the  stewpan  from 
the  lire,  strain  the  soup  into  a  tureen,  and  set  it  aside  to 
cool.  Meanwhile,  have  ready  some  fresh  cucumbers,  peel, 
and  slice  them  as  thinly  as  possible,  and  lay  them  in  ice- 
water  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  the  soup  is  quite 
cold — frost  cold — dress  the  cucumbers  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  vinegar,  and  add  them  to  the  soup,  stirring  carefully 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Lastly,  have  ready  some  very 
light  white  bread,  cut  into  dice  and  dried  (not  toast- 
ed) in  the  oven.  When  the  garspacho  is  ready  to  be 
served,  pour  a  very  little  tarragon  vinegar  over  the  bread, 
and  toss  the  bread  quickly  into  the  garspacho.  (Excel- 
lent.) 

German  Flour  Soup. — Brown  some  flour ;  thin  it  while 
warm  with  sufficient  milk  for  your  soup;  add  powdered 


30  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

cinnamon  and  powdered  sugar ;  cook  it  and  always  keep 
stirring;  at  the  moment  of  serving  thicken  it  with  some 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  pour  it  in  your  tureen  over  slices 
of  toasted  bread,  fried  croutons,  or  sailors',  biscuits  bro- 
ken up. 

Sago  Soup  with  Wine. — Wash  your  sago  well ;  cook  it 
an  hour  in  water,  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  some  cin- 
namon. When  the  water  is  reduced  to  half  its  quantity, 
pour  in  as  much  red  wine ;  put  in  some  slices  of  lemon 
and  sugar ;  let  it  boil.  Before  serving,  sprinkle  your  soup 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  powdered. 

Gumbo  File  with  Chicken. — Cut  up  and  fry  a  large  fine 
chicken  in  a  saucepan  with  a  slice  of  lean  ham,  two  sliced 
onions,  two  sliced  tomatoes,  a  little  parsley,  and  some  cel- 
ery, salt,  and  pepper;  fry  all  well  together,  and  add  two 
quarts  and  a  half  of  water ;  simmer  two  hours  and  strain  ; 
put  your  chicken  back  in  the  soup,  and  just  as  you  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  coffeespoonful  of  file  powder; 
serve  with  boiled  rice  and  little  green  bird's-eye  peppers. 

Shrimp  Ochra  Gumbo. — Slice  your  ochra  and  fry  it  in 
butter  or  lard,  with  onions,  salt,  and  pepper;  boil  your 
shrimps,  remove  the  heads,  and  peel  the  tails,  and  fry  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  chopped  ham,  onions,  and  cayenne  pep- 
per ;  pour  your  fried  ochra  and  shrimps  into  a  soup  pot ; 
slice  in  a  quart  of  fine  ripe  tomatoes  (or  in  winter  take 
a  can  of  tomatoes)  ;  cook  slowly  two  hours,  and  serve 
with  boiled  rice.  Always  serve  fresh  green  peppers  with 
gumbo. 

Grab  Ochra  Gumbo  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  substi- 
tuting crabs  for  shrimps. 

Gumbo  File  with  Oysters. — Boil  a  large,  fine,  fat  chicken 
in  two  quarts  of  water,  add  a  slice  of  ham,  and  season  to 


SOUPS.  31 

taste.  Take  the  liquor  of  fifty  oysters  and  pour  it  in  the 
bouillon.  When  the  chicken  is  cooked,  take  it  out  of  the 
soup .;  strain  your  soup  through  a  colander,  and  just  before 
serving  throw  in  the  oysters,  and  let  them  cook  five  min- 
utes, till  they  are  plump  ;  remove  your  soup  pot  from  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  an  after-dinner-coif  eespoonful  of  the  file 
powder  and  serve  immediately;  serve  with  boiled  rice. 
This  is  the  Southern  Soup  de  Rigueur  for  suppers. 

Giblet  Soup. — Feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  three 
chickens,  or  of  two  ducks  and  two  geese ;  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  veal ;  half  a  pound  of  ham ;  three  quarts  of 
water. 

Crack  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  chop  the  giblets,  and 
cut  the  meat  into  strips;  put  all  together  over  the  fire, 
with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  a  pinch  of  allspice  ;  stew 
slowly  for  two  hours ;  pick  out  the  giblets  with  a  skim- 
mer and  set  them  aside,  where  they  will  keep  warm  ;  take 
up  a  cupful  of  the  hot  soup  and  stir  into  it  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  rubbed  to  a 
paste  in  cold  water, then  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  re- 
turn to  the  pot  and  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  season  at  the  last 
with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  burned  sugar,  a  glass  of  brown  sher- 
ry, and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup ;  finally,  add  the 
giblets  and  serve. 

Good  Housekeepers'  Soup. — Take  the  bones  and  scraps 
of  any  cold  meat,  game,  or  poultry ;  put  them  in  a  soup 
pot  with  vegetables,  salt,  pepper,  and  bouillon  ;  three 
hours  before  serving  (take  out  half  the  bouillon,  which 
you  set  up  for  the  next  day)  add  a  cabbage,  which  makes 
a  cabbage  soup.  The  next  day  cut  up,  as  for  a  Jidienne, 
two  heads  of  celery,  an  onion,  two  leaves  of  cabbage,  two 
or  three  leeks,  (this  is  enough  for  six  persons);  fry  with 
either  butter  or  lard  in  a  saucepan.  When  the  vegetables 
are  half  cooked,  pour  in  the  bouillon  set  aside  the  preced- 
ing day  ;  add  two  or  three  fresh  potatoes,  peeled  and  quar- 


32  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

tered ;  serve  hot.     This  simple  and  good  soup  is  prefera- 
ble, i 
rots. 


ble,  sometimes,  to  Julienne  for  those  who  do  not  like  car 


Hare,  Rabbit,  or  Gray-Squirrel  Soup. — Three  pounds 
of  hare,  rabbit,  or  squirrel ;  one  pound  of  lean  ham ;  two 
onions,  chopped  fine;  one  head  of  celery,  chopped  fine; 
one  small  bunch  of  thyme ;  one  small  bunch  of  parsley ; 
ten  peppercorns ;  two  blades  of  mace ;  one  small  red-pep- 
per pod  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  burned  sugar ;  one  claret-glass 
of  red  wine. 

Cut  up  the  meat  and  put  it  with  the  chopped  vegetables 
into  the  pot,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  ;  cover 
closely  and  stew  for  an  hour;  then  add  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing wTater,  the  herbs,  pepper  pod,  and  peppercorns;  boil 
two  hours  longer,  salt,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  made 
into  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water;  add,  also,  the  burned 
sugar  and  wine,  stir  carefully ;  take  out  the  herbs  and  veg- 
etables with  a  perforated  strainer ;  allow  the  soup  to  boil 
up  once,  and  serve  with  the  meat  in.     (Very  good.) 

Mulligatawny  Soup^o.  1. — One  knuckle  of  veal,  weigh- 
ing five  pounds,  put  on  with  enough  water  to  cover  it. 
When  it  is  about  half  done  take  it  off,  cut  the  meat  in 
slices,  put  it  in  a  cool  place  until  next  day ;  then  cut  the 
fat  off  and  fry  it  in  a  little  butter,  and  put  it  in  the  soup 
with  four  dessertspoonfuls  of  curry-powder,  a  little  salt, 
and  four  onions  sliced  and  fried  in  butter ;  let  all  simmer 
together  for  two  hours  ;  if  too  thin,  thicken  with  browned 
flour  and  butter ;  serve  with  rice  in  another  dish. 

Mulligatawny  Soup,  No.  2. — Four  pounds  of  lean  beef ; 
one  and  a  half  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton  ;  two  pounds  of 
lean  ham  :  one  knuckle  of  veal ;  one  gallon  of  water. 

Boil  all  together  slowly  until  the  water  is  reduced  to 
two  quarts ;  add  two  onions,  four  turnips,  and  plenty  of 


SOUPS.  33 

carrots  ;  strain  it  off,  let  it  cool,  take  off  the  fat,  and  warm 
it  up  with  two  or  three  sticks  of  celery,  and  rub  it  through 
a  sieve  ;  put  it  back  in  the  saucepan  with  walnut  or  mush- 
room catsup,  one  .tablespoonful  of  curry-powder,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  serve  with  rice 
in  another  dish. 

Puree  of  Onions. — Take  some  young  button  onions, 
peel  them,  and  cut  them  fine;  then  fry  them  in  good  but- 
ter until  they  are  of  a  delicate  brown  color;  then  take 
them  from  the  fire  and  put  them  in  a  casserole  with  some 
good  broth,  some  pieces  of  the  finest  white  bread  fried  in 
butter,  and  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs ;  let  all 
cook  together  until  well  assimilated  ;  then  take  it  from  the 
fire  and  strain,  pressing  it  smoothly  through  the  strainer 
with  a  wooden  pestle;  replace  it  on  the  fire,  add  some 
broth,  and  cook  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  cream ; 
season  to  taste  and  serve. 

Puree  of  Mushrooms. —  Take  some  fresh  mushrooms, 
wash,  peel,  and  clean  them  thoroughly ;  slice  them  fine, 
dry  them,  and  put  them  in  a  casserole  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter and  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon.  When  the  butter  is 
melted  add  some  strong  broth  or  stock,  a  glass  of  white 
wine  (sherry  or  Madeira  is  best),  and  some  bouillon  ;  cook 
all  together  slowly,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden  or 
silver  spoon  until  thoroughly  assimilated ;  then  season, 
strain,  and  serve.     It  should  be  like  thick  cream. 

Mutton  Broth. — Four  pounds  of  lean  mutton  or  lamb, 
cut  into  small  pieces;  one  gallon  of  water;  half  a  teacup- 
f ul  of  rice ;  half  a  chicken,  if  the  broth  is  intended  to  be 
very  good. 

Boil  the  unsalted  meat  for  two  hours  slowly  in  a  cov- 
ered vessel ;  soak  the  rice  in  enough  warm  water  to  cover 
it ;  and,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  add  it,  water  and  all,  to 
the  boiling  soup;  cook  an   hour  longer,  stirring  watch- 

2* 


34  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

fully,  from  time  to  time,  lest  the  rice  should  settle  and  ad- 
here to  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  beat  an  egg  into  a  froth 
and  stir  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk,  into  which  has  been  rubbed 
smoothly  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  rice  or  wheat  flour ;  mix  with 
this,  a  little  at  a  time,  some  of  the  scalding  liquor  until  the 
egg  is  so  cooked  that  there  is  no  danger  of  its  curdling  in 
the  soup;  pour  into  the  pot;  when  you  have  taken  out 
the  meat,  season  with  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt ;  boil  up 
once  and  serve. 

Olla  Podrida. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  mutton  ;  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  veal ;  a  slice  of  lean  raw  ham ;  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  black-eyed  pease ;  any  cold  game  or 
chicken. 

Put  your  meat,  ham,  and  pease  in  a  soup  pot  with  suffi- 
cient water;  simmer  and  skim;  let  it  cook  an  hour;  take 
out  your  meat ;  put  into  your  bouillon  whatever  vegetables 
you  wish  (prepared  beforehand) ;  cook  slowly;  and  before 
serving  put  in  a  piece  of  blood  pudding ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  serve  your  meats  on  one  dish,  your  vegeta- 
bles on  another,  with  the  following  sauces :  For  summer 
vegetables — green  pease,  snap-beans,  potatoes,  etc. — serve 
a  tomato  sauce ;  for  winter  vegetables  (cabbage  excepted), 
a  parsley  sauce. 

Oxtail  Soup. — One  oxtail;  two  pounds  of  lean  beef; 
four  carrots  ;  three  onions ;  thyme. 

Cut  the  tail  into  several  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  butter; 
slice  the  onions  and  two  carrots  and  fry  also ;  when  done 
put  them  into  a  nraslin  bag  with  the  thyme,  and  place 
in  the  soup  pot  with  the  beef  and  oxtail ;  grate  the  two 
whole  carrots  and  cook  all  together,  pouring  over  four 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  adding  a  pinch  of  burned  sugar, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  cook  from  four  to  six  hours,  in 
proportion  to  the  size  of  the  tail ;  strain  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving  it,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour;  boil  ten  minutes  longer;  add  half  a  glass 
of  burned  sherry,  and  serve. 


SOUPS.  35 

Brown  Gravy  Soup. — Three  pounds  of  beef;  one  pound 
of  fillet  of  beef;  one  carrot ;  one  turnip  ;  one  head  of  cel- 
ery ;  six  button  onions ;  three  and  a  half  quarts  of  water. 

Slice  the  onions,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  butter; 
take  them  out  and  fry  the  meat  in  the  same  way,  with 
the  exception  of  the  fillet.  Chop  the  vegetables,  and  put 
them  with  the  onions  and  fried  beef  into  a  covered  pot; 
pour  on  the  water  and  let  all  stew  together  for  three  hours  ; 
then  add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
boil  one  hour  longer,  skimming  carefully.  In  the  mean- 
time, free  the  piece  of  fillet  entirely  from  strings,  skin,  and 
fat ;  chop  it  fine,  and  then  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mor- 
tar, adding  the  tiniest  possible  soupgon  of  burned  sugar, 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  working  it  steadily  until  it  is  reduced 
to  a  cream ;  mix  with  this,  drop  by  drop,  a  teacupful  of 
the  soup  (strained);  then  strain  the  soup,  put  it  back  on 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  at  boiling-point  add  the  fillet, 
stirring  steadily  all  the  time ;  allow  the  soup  so  thicken- 
ed to  boil  up  once ;  then  put  into  the  soup  tureen,  and 
serve. 

Vermicelli  Soup  is  made  as  above,  omitting  the  fillet, 
and  adding  a  handful  of  vermicelli,  boiled  separately 
and  drained  dry.  The  vermicelli  so  prepared  should  be 
put  into  the  soup  tureen,  and  the  clear  soup  poured 
over  it. 

Pot  au  Feu. — Beef  makes  the  most  wholesome  and  best 
soup.  Put  your  meat  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt;  the 
fire  should  be  so  slow  that  the  soup  cannot  boil  before  the 
skim  rises  and  is  carefully  removed  ;  add  carrots,  turnips, 
leeks,  celery,  parsley  roots,  a  bay  leaf,  one  or  two  cloves,  a 
clove  of  garlic,  and  a  fried  onion  to  give  color  ;  let  it  boil 
slowly  until  the  meat  is  done.  To  make  good  soup  the 
most  important  thing  is  to  keep  it  simmering  without 
ceasing  one  moment.  It  requires  from  five  to  six  hours 
to  make  a  good  pot  au  feu.     The  proper  proportions  are 


36  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

three  pounds  of  meat  for  four  quarts  of  water.  When 
the  soup  is  done,  pour  it  boiling  hot  through  the  colander, 
over  slices  of  bread  in  the  tureen.  Never  boil  bread  in 
soup,  as  that  spoils  the  flavor.  The  remains  of  game  or 
poultry  added  to  the  beef  is  a  good  addition.  A  piece  of 
the  breast  of  mutton  improves  the  taste,  and  can  be  served 
the  following  day  broiled. 

Cucido,  Pot  au  Feu  d  la  Portugaise. — Put  into  an  earth- 
en pot  two  pounds  of  beef,  a  piece  of  raw  ham,  a  mutton 
bone,  a  chicken,  two  handfuls  of  beans  parboiled  ;  add  five 
or  six  quarts  of  cold  water ;  place  the  pot  on  the  fire  and 
watch  it  carefully,  skimming  the  soup  constantly  ;  as  soon  as 
it  begins  to  boil  draw  it  on  one  side,  placing  it  where  it  will 
simmer,  but  not  boil ;  two  ho'urs  later  add  a  small  cabbage 
(blanched),  a  soupcon  of  garlic,  two  large  tomatoes  peeled 
and  sliced,  a  carrot  peeled  and  sliced,  and  two  or  three 
cloves ;  an  hour  later  add  two  smoked  sausages.  When 
the  meats  are  cooked  pour  off  the  bouillon  into  another 
casserole  and  keep  it  hot.  Meanwhile,  put  into  another 
pot  an  onion,  chopped  fine  and  fried  in  butter  to  a  light 
brown  ;  add  to  this  a  handful  of  rice,  and  fill  the  pot  three 
quarters  full  of  bouillon  ;  cover,  and  cook  slowly.  When 
the  rice  is  cooked  add  two  tablespoonf  nls  of  tomato  sauce, 
and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  white  pepper ;  put  into  a  soup  tureen, 
and  pour  over  the  rice  the  bouillon,  which  must  previous- 
ly have  been  carefully  strained ;  arrange  the  soup  meat, 
beef,  ham,  chicken,  and  sausage  on  a  long  oval  dish ;  sur- 
round with  the  vegetables,  and  serve. 

Pucker o,  Pot  au  Feu  d  la  Fspagnole. — Put  into  an 
earthen  pot  two  pounds  of  breast  of  beef,  a  chicken  cut  up 
and  fried  to  a  light  brown  in  butter,  a  pig's  ear,  a  pound 
of  lean  ham,  chopped  fine,  and  three  handfuls  of  parboiled 
beans ;  pour  over  all  five  quarts  of  water,  and  cook  slowly, 
as  above.  When  the  soup  has  simmered  two  hours  add  a 
clove  of  garlic,  an  onion,  a  bunch  of  sorrel,  and  a  pinch  of 


SOUPS.  ,        37 

thyme,  a  large  head  of  lettuce,  the  same  of  celery,  a  large 
carrot,  and  half  a  cabbage  (blanched) ;  an  hour  later  add  a 
little  okra,  and  continue  to  cook  slowly.  When  about  to 
serve,  strain  the  bouillon  through  a  sieve  into  a  heated 
soup  tureen ;  add  some  slices  of  bread  browned,  cut  into 
dice  and  fried  lightly  in  butter ;  add,  also,  the  okra ;  ar- 
range the  meat  and  vegetables  on  an  oval  platter,  and  serve 
together  with  the  soup. 

Posol,  Pot  an  Feu  a  la  Polonaise. — Put  into  an  earth- 
en pot  a  piece  of  breast  of  beef,  the  same  of  veal,  a  piece 
of  bacon,  the  same  of  raw  ham,  and  some  vegetables;  pour 
over  all  about  five  quarts  of  water,  and  cook  slowly ;  two 
hours  later  add  two  small  chickens,  cut  up,  with  their  liver 
and  lights ;  as  soon  as  the  chickens  are  cooked  take  them 
out  of  the  pot,  strain  the  bouillon,  and  pour  two  quarts  of 
it  into  another  casserole  ;  allow  this  to  come  to  a  boil ;  and 
when  at  boiling-point  add  enough  corn  flour  to  thicken  it 
to  a  cream  ;  twenty-five  minutes  later  skim  the  soup  ;  pour 
into  the  heated  soup  tureen  ;  add  the  chickens  and  ham 
chopped  fine,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  fennel. 

French  Pot  au  Feu  (Soyer). — Six  pounds  of  lean  beef; 
four  quarts  of  water;  set  near  the  fire  and  skim;  when 
nearly  boiling  add  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  half  a 
pound  of  liver,  two  carrots,  four  turnips,  eight  young  or 
two  old  leeks,  one  very  large  head  of  celery,  two  onions 
(one  of  them  burned)  with  a  clove  in  each,  a  piece  of  pars- 
nip, and  some  sliced  okra ;  skim  again  and  simmer  five 
hours,  adding  a  little  cold  water  now  and  then ;  take  off 
the  fat,  put  slices  of  bread  into  the  tureen,  lay  half  the 
vegetables  over,  and  half  the  broth,  and  serve  the  meat 
(bouilli)  separately  with  the  other  vegetables. 

French  Sheets-Head  Soup  (Soyer). — One  sheep's  head 
and  pluck  boiled  gently  in  a  gallon  of  water  till  reduced 
to  half  the  quantity;  a  small  teacupful  of  pearl  barley, 


38  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

six  large  onions,  one  turnip,  one  carrot,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  a  few  cloves  and  peppercorns ;  add  a  little  mush- 
room catsup,  some  chopped  okra,  and  thicken  with  some 
browned  flour  rolled  in  butter.  (It  is  better  to  make  this 
soup  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.)  Cut  the  meat  off  the 
head  in  slices  and  then  into  small  squares,  which  must  be 
put  into  the  soup  when  it  is  warmed  up  for  use ;  finish  it 
up  with  a  forcemeat  and  little  egg  balls,  a  teacupful  of 
white  wine,  a  little  sliced  lemon,  and  very  little  sugar. 
If  properly  made  this  soup  is  delicious. 

Potage  a  la  Grecy. — Wash,  scrape,  and  slice  carrots,  tur- 
nips, celery,  and  onions ;  blanch  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
in  boiling  water ;  drain  them ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  some  thin  slices  of  ham,  a  lit- 
tle sugar ;  put  over  a  moderate  fire ;  moisten  with  bouillon  ; 
when  well  cooked  take  out  the  vegetables,  put  them  in  a 
mortar,  pound  them',  and  press  them  through  a  strainer, 
thinning  them  with  the  bouillon  in  which  they  were 
cooked  ;  put  this  puree  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  slow- 
ly two  hours ;  then  skim  it  and  pour  it  in  the  soup  tureen, 
over  fried  croutons  of  bread,  and  serve  hot. 

Potage  a  la  Gonde. — Make  a  puree  of  red  beans,  well 
cooked  with  bouillon  gras  •  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve 
and  pour  it  over  croutons  of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Puree  de  Bceuf  a  la  Pusse. — Take  a  piece  of  the  rump 
weighing  about  three  pounds;  cut  off  all  the  fat  and  skin, 
chop  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  very  small  piece 
of  fresh  butter,  a  tiny  pinch  of  powdered  sugar,  and  salt 
to  taste;  add,  also,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  mix  all 
together  until  as  smooth  as  cream ;  chop  an  onion,  fry  it 
lightly  in  butter,  dust  it  with  a  little  flour,  and  cook  for  an 
instant  or  two  ;  then  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  strong  beef 
bouillon  colored  a  rich  brown ;  the  moment  it  begins  to 
boil,  set  the  casserole  on  the  side  of  the  fire,  skim,  and 


SOUPS.  39 

strain ;  twenty  minutes  after  add  the  pounded  beef,  stir- 
ring carefully  one  way  ;  let  it  cook  (but  not  boil)  for  twen- 
ty minutes  longer,  then  pour  into  the  soup  tureen,  and 
serve.     This  is  a  splendid  soup. 

Potage  d  la  Heine. — Put  into  the  soup  pot  a  chicken, 
a  knuckle  of  veal,  half  a  pound  of  breast  of  veal,  salt 
slightly,  and  add  five  quarts  of  water,  a  small  bunch  of 
shallots  and  chivary,  half  a  head  of  celery,  a  turnip,  a 
carrot,  and  some  whole  cloves ;  when  it  boils  up  add  two 
or  three  handfuls  of  pearl  barley,  and  continue  to  cook 
slowly,  but  steadily,  until  the  meat  is  boiled  to  rags;  then 
take  out  the  meat  and  skim  and  strain  the  soup  until  it  is 
thoroughly  freed  from  grease ;  set  the  casserole  containing 
the  soup  in  a  warm  place  on  the  stove,  where  the  soup 
will  keep  hot  but  not  boil ;  take  the  breasts  of  the  chicken, 
chop,  and  pound  them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar ;  adding  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  one  whole  egg;  also  a  glass  of  the 
thickest  fresh  cream  ;  season  with  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch 
of  sugar ;  then  pass  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  and  pour  into 
a  buttered  mould ;  cook  d  bain-marie  (the  water  rising  to 
half  the  height  of  the  mould)  until  of  the  proper  consis- 
tency (i.  e.,  like  soft  bread);  when  cold  cut  into  small 
squares  and  arrange  in  a  heated  soup  tureen,  adding,  also, 
the  points  of  some  white  asparagus,  cooled  in  water  (the 
asparagus  should  be  hot) ;  pour  over  these  the  soup,  and 
serve. 

Puree  of  Sorrel. — Take  a  large  quantity  of  sorrel,  some 
chervil,  several  heads  of  the  best  lettuce,  and  some  beet 
tops ;  wash,  clean,  pick,  and  rinse  them  thoroughly ;  then 
dry,  and  throw  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  casserole  with  a 
large  piece  of  butter,  some  small  button  onions,  and  some 
parsley  ;  when  the  sorrel  is  almost  cooked  add  some  good 
bouillon,  strain  it,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  cook, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  assumes  the  consistency  of 
cream  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


40  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Puree  of  Chestnuts. — Roast  some  large,  line  chestnuts 
until  you  can  peel  and  scrape  them  easily ;  then  put  them 
into  a  casserole  with  a  large  piece  of  the  best  butter,  a 
large  ladlef  til  of  strong  broth,  and  half  a  tumbler  of  white 
wine ;  cook  over  a  very  slow  fire  until  the  soup  assumes 
the  consistency  of  cream  ;  then  salt,  strain,  and  serve. 

Spinach  Soup  a  la  Darey. — Take  two  or  three  handfuls 
of  spinach,  wash  clean,  and  boil  with  plenty  of  water  and 
a  little  salt ;  strain  off  the  water  (when  the  spinach  is  thor- 
oughly cooked)  and  work  the  spinacli  through  a  hair  sieve ; 
make  a  white  sauce  with  butter,  milk,  or  cream,  and  flour, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  then  put  the  spinach  into  the  sauce  and 
put  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  serve  very  hot. 
The  more  cream  you  put  into  it  the  better  it  will  be.  If 
not  sufficiently  green  it  can  be  colored  with  essence  of 
spinach.     (See  receipts  for  essences,  etc.) 

Puree  of  Woodcock  or  Pigeons. — Roast  the  woodcock 
(or  pigeons) ;  skin,  bone,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with 
a  quantity  of  bread  crumb  fried  in  fresh  butter,  and  the 
yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs.  "When  you  have  reduced 
all  to  the  consistency  of  smooth  paste  add  a  ladleful  of 
good  broth,  and  strain  into  an  earthen  stewpan  ;  add  more 
broth,  and  a  ladleful  of  beef  juice;  stir  continually  until 
the  puree  is  smooth  as  velvet  and  thick  as  good  cream ; 
then  salt  slightly,  and  cook  d  lain-marie;  just  before 
taking  it  from  the  fire  stir  in  a  coffeespoonful  of  burned 
sugar,  and  a  liqueur-glass  of  sherry. 

White  Soup  for  Supper. — One  quart  of  new  milk ;  one 
pint  of  fresh  cream ;  one  piece  of  lemon  peel ;  one  stick 
of  celery ;  two  laurel  leaves ;  one  lump  of  white  sugar ; 
one  pinch  of  fine  salt ;  three  coriander  seeds ;  one  small 
stick  of  cinnamon  ;  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds ;  three 
bitter  almonds — all  blanched,  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar,  and 
then  mixed  with  the  cream-yolks  of  ten  eggs  beaten  light. 


SOUPS.  41 

Boil  the  milk  and  all  other  ingredients,  except  the 
cream,  almonds,  and  eggs,  for  a  few  minutes;  set  aside  to 
cool ;  then  strain  and  return  to  the  fire  in  a  stewpan  ;  im- 
mediately mixing  the  cream,  almonds,  and  eggs  smoothly 
with  it;  stir  till  it  thickens,  and  then  pour  over  slices  of 
French  roll,  which  should  be  previously  placed  in  the  tu- 
reen ;  serve  hot. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup,  No.  1. — Boil  a  sheep's  head,  with 
the  liver  and  haslets.  When  thoroughly  done,  strain,  re- 
move the  meat  from  the  head,  take  out  the  brains,  remove 
all  the  gristle  from  the  haslets  and  liver ;  pound  all  this 
in  a  mortar  to  a  paste ;  season  with  grated  onions,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  bind  with  the  yolks  of  eggs ;  make  into  balls, 
and  fry ;  strain  the  bouillon  in  which  the  head  has  boiled, 
thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour  (brown  your  flour  and 
mix  to  a  paste  with  a  little  water),  and  stir  it  into  the 
bouillon  ;  a  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  one  nutmeg,  powdered  and  sifted  ;  chop  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  into  dice ;  add  them  with  the  forcemeat  balls 
just  before  serving;  pour, at  the  last  moment,  a  teacupful 
of  Madeira  in  the  soup,  and  serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Soup  Stock,  To  Clear,  No.  2  ("  Boston  Cook-book  ").— 
"  White  and  shell  of  one  egg  for  every  quart  of  stock. 

"  Remove  the  fat,  and  mix  the  flavoring  with  the  stock 
while  it  is  quite  cold ;  beat  it  well ;  then,  and  not  until 
then,  put  the  stock  on  the  fire ;  add  the  white  of  egg  and 
shell  instantly,  while  the  stock  is  still  cold ;  stir  steadily 
and  uninterruptedly  until  the  stock  is  very  hot  to  keep  the 
egg  from  settling ;  then  leave  it  and  let  it  boil  ten  min- 
utes. By  this  time  a  thick  scum  will  have  formed ;  set 
the  stock  back  on  the  stove,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water ;  let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  while  you  prepare  your 
jar,  colander,  and  fine  napkin  ready  for  straining;  wring 
a  fine  napkin  out  of  hot  water,  and  lay  it  over  the  colan- 
der (which  should  be  placed  on  the  jar) ;  put  the  finest 


42  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

wire  strainer  on  the  napkin,  and  then  pour  it  all  through ; 
do  this  slowly,  and  do  not  squeeze  the  napkin  at  any  stage 
of  the  process." 

The  author  of  the  "  Boston  Cook-book "  advises  that 
soup  should  never  be  skimmed,  and  is  undoubtedly  right 
in  so  advising. 

Potage  a  la  Heine  d)  Angleterre  ("  Boston  Cook-book  "). 
— Remove  the  fat  from  one  quart  of  the  water  in  which 
a  chicken  has  been  boiled  to  rags  ;  season  highly  with  cel- 
ery salt  and  white  pepper,  also  a  little  onion,  and  put  on 
to  boil ;  mash  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  and 
mix  with  half  a  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  which 
have  been  soaked  until  soft  in  a  little  milk  ;  chop  the  white 
meat  of  a  chicken  until  fine  like  meal,  and  stir  it  into  the 
egg-and-bread  paste ;  add  one  pint  of  hot  cream  slowly, 
and  then  rub  all  into  the  hot  chicken  liquor  ;  boil  five  min- 
utes; add  more  salt  if  needed,  and  if  too  thick  add  more 
cream ;  or,  if  not  thick  enough,  add  more  fine  cracker 
dust.     It  should  be  like  a  'puree. 


FISH. 

A   FISH    TABLE   FOE   THE    NORTHERN    STATES. 

Bass,  Black In  season  in  October,  November,  and  December. 

Bass,  Striped Particularly  good  in  October,  in  season  in  November  and 

December. 

Blackfish In  season  in  July,  August,  September,  October ;  best  in 

November. 

Bluefish In  season  in  June,  July,  August,  September,  and  October. 

Catfish In  season  in  January,  February,  March,  October,  No- 
vember, and  December. 

Clams March,  April,  May,  June,  July,  August. 

Cod All  the  year,  but  at  its  best  in  November  and  December. 

Crabs,  Soft  Shell.  .  .  .In  season  in  May  and  June;  at  their  best  in  July  and 
August. 

Flounders All  the  year,  but  best    in  January,  February,  March, 

October,  November,  and  December. 

Haddock All  the  year,  but  best  in  November. 

Halibut All  the  year,  but  best  in  September,  October,  and  No- 
vember. 

Herring.. January,  February,  March,  April,  and  December. 

Kingfish July  and  August ;  at  its  best  in  September. 

Lobsters All  the  year,  but  supremely  good  in  July  and  August. 

Mackerel,  Spanish. .  .In  season  in  June  and  July;  best  in  August. 

Oysters In  season  in  January,  February,  March,  April,  December ; 

best  in  September,  October,  November. 

Perch All  the  year,  but  best  in  October  and  November. 

Pike  or  Pickerel . . .  .January,  February,  March,  September,  October,  Novem- 
ber, December. 

Salmon April,  May,  June ;  best  in  July. 

Shad April,  May,  June. 

Sheepshead July,  August,  September;  best  in  October. 

Shrimps April,  October,  November. 

Smelts January,  November,  and  December. 

Sunfish In  season  in  October  only. 

Trout,  Brook Best  in  May ;  in  season,  however,  in  April  and  September. 

Trout,  Lake In  season  in  September  and  October ;  best  in  November. 

Weakfish In  season  in  July,  August,  September ;  best  in  October. 

Whitefish In  season  in  April,  May,  June ;  best  in  July. 


44  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Fish,  to  (Jhoose.  —  In  choosing  flounders,  see  that  the 
pale  side  has  the  appearance  of  white  earthenware.  If 
clear  and  curly,  the  fish  is  not  good. 

Bass  should  be  sounded  over  the  back.  If  the  back 
sinks  about  the  second  dorsal  fin,  do  not  buy  it.  Bass,  if 
gutted  at  once,  and  hung  by  the  head  in  a  cool  place,  will 
remain  good  for  two  or  three  days  without  salt. 

Eels  are  fresh  when  their  skin  is  full ;  if  wrinkled,  they 
are  stale.  Pickerel  should  have  an  olive-tinted  skin,  and 
golden  spots.  If  the  coloring  be  pale  and  faded,  the  pick- 
erel are  stale.  Trout  should  have  a  small  head,  thick 
shoulders,  and  a  general  splendor  of  coloring.  If  pale  in 
color,  they  are  stale.  Salmon  should  be  round  and  broad, 
even  to  the  tail.  If  covered  with  parasitical  insects,  that 
is  a  sure  sign  of  its  having  just  come  out  of  the  water,  and 
of  a  very  high  condition  of  excellence.  As  long  as  the 
scales  are  resplendent  and  silvery  the  fish  are  in  a  good, 
eatable  state ;  just  as  soon  as  a  coppery  hue  appears  they 
are  no  longer  fit  to  eat.  In  choosing  "  crimped  salmon," 
see  that  the  flesh  rises  at  the  edges  of  the  cuts,  disclosing 
firm,  elastic  flakes.  When  the  fish  is  stale,  the  gills  turn 
brown,  and  dishonest  fishmongers  stain  them  with  blood  ; 
but  this  trick  is  easily  detected  by  those  who  are  aware  of 
it.   Always  buy  crabs  and  lobsters  alive,  heavy,  and  lively. 

Salt  Fish,  to  Choose. — Salt  cod  should  be  perfectly  dry, 
not  hard  to  the  touch,  and  completely  free  from  spots  or 
mildew.  Dried  salmon  should  be  thick  and  full-backed, 
and  the  flesh  of  a  deep  pink  color.  If  dim  red,  this  color 
has  been  given  by  saltpetre  to  a  colorless,  unhealthy  fish. 
Red  herring  should  shine  like  burnished  metal,  and  be 
very  stiff ;  if  they  are  dull,  soft,  or  broken,  they  are  not 
good. 

All  fish  kept  in  pickle  should  be  clean  in  appearance 
and  firm  and  elastic  to  the  touch. 

Fish,  to   Clean.  —  Fish  should  be  carefully  and  thor- 


FISH.  45 

onghly  cleaned,  but  should  be  lightly  and  rapidly  handled, 
or  the  flesh  will  lose  its  firmness  and  delicacy.  After  be- 
ing thoroughly  and  quickly  washed  under  a  pipe  of  run- 
ning water,  it  should  be  hung  by  the  head  until  every  drop 
is  drained  off.     Never  leave  fish  lying  in  water. 

Cod  should  be  very  carefully  cleaned,  all  the  interstices 
of  the  backbone  being  freed  from  blood  either  with  a 
knife  or  a  small  brush.  Unless  this  is  done  the  blood 
turns  black  in  boiling,  producing  a  most  disgusting  ap- 
pearance. 

Kays,  and  all  fishes  of  that  class,  should  be  skinned  as 
soon  after  they  are  dead  as  possible.  If  the  skin  does  not 
come  off  readily,  dip  the  fish  in  boiling  water. 

Fish  that  are  to  be  opened  down  the  back  are  best  split 
from  nose  to  tail. 

In  cleaning  flatfish,  open  them  considerably,  otherwise 
it  is  hard  to  extract  the  whole  of  the  intestines ;  and  it  is 
this  neglect  which  makes  the  abdominal  parts  of  flatfish 
have  such  an  unpleasant,  muddy  taste. 

General  Directions  for  Boiling. — Large  fish  are  gener- 
ally boiled,  and  it  is  well  to  add  a  little  salt,  vinegar,  and 
horseradish  to  the  water,  as  the  addition  not  only  pre- 
vents the  skin  of  the  fish  from  breaking,  but  really  im- 
proves the  flavor.  Large  fish  must  be  boiled  slowly.  The 
head  and  shoulders  of  the  cod  are  the  parts  generally  best 
for  boiling.  It  is  best  to  bind  them  with  broad  tape. 
When  sufficiently  cooked,  the  flesh  will  leave  the  backbone 
white  and  fkdry,  the  skin  rises  up,  and  the  eyes  turn  white. 
The  sounds,  the  jelly  parts  about  the  jowl,  the  palate,  and 
the  tongue,  are  esteemed  rare  delicacies  by  the  epicures  in 
fish. 

Salmon,  also,  if  it  be  a  large  fish,  is  best  boiled  in  por- 
tions. After  it  has  been  a  minute  in  the  boiling  water, 
lift  the  drain  and  let  the  water  flow  off.  Repeat  this  sev- 
eral times,  and  it  will  cause  the  curd  to  set,  and  the  fish  to 
eat  more  crisply.     The  thinnest  part  of  salmon  is  the  fat- 


46  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

test,  and  consequently  the  best  part.  Some  epicures, 
notably  William  Henry  Herbert,  recommend  for  boiling 
salmon  "a  kettle  screeching  with  intense  heat,  and  filled 
with  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg.'7 

Brook  Trout  are  generally  fried  or  broiled,  but  the  lake 
trout  found  in  Hamilton  County,  Seneca  Lake,  etc.,  are 
best  boiled. 

Frying  Fish — General  Directions. — Small  fish  are  usu- 
ally best  fried.  The  fire  should  always  be  clear  and  fierce, 
and  the  pan  must  not  be  too  old,  or  the  fish  will  stick  to 
it.  Beef  drippings  is  the  best  thing  in  which  to  fry  fish,, 
and  plenty  of  it  must  be  used.  The  drippings  must  be  so 
hot  that  a  piece  of  bread  dropped  into  it  will  brown  in- 
stantly. 

In  frying  herring  or  shad,  score  them  three  or  four 
times  across  the  body  into  the  very  backbone.  This  mode 
of  treatment  causes  the  flesh  to  be  more  crisp  and  firm. 
After  the  fish  are  fried  they  should  be  laid  on  a  soft  cloth 
before  the  fire,  and  turned  every  two  or  three  minutes  till 
dry  on  both  sides.  It  is  well  to  keep  old  linen  table-cloths 
cut  up  for  this  purpose. 

Fried  Catfish. — Skin,  clean,  remove  the  heads,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  lay  aside  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  dip 
in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry 
quickly  in  hot  lard  or  drippings. 

/Stewed  Catfish. — Skin,  clean,  remove  the  heads,  salt, 
and  set  aside,  as  for  frying.  After  two  hours  arrange  them 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  stew  gently  for 
half  an  hour  or  longer,  according  to  their  size.  Put  into 
the  saucepan  a  chopped  shallot,  a  bunch  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, a  little  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  mixed 
to  a  paste  with  cold  water,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter.     Boil  up  once,  take  out  the  fish  carefully,  and  lay 


FISH.  47 

iti  a  deep  dish.     Boil  up  again,  pour  over  the  fish,  and 
serve. 

'  Brandade  de  Morue. — Soak  your  codfish  until  it  be- 
comes flaky;  drain  it  well  (for  this  dish  you  always  use  a 
salt  cod ;  shred  your  fish ;  pound  it  piece  by  piece  in  a 
mortar  with  a  little  clove  of  well-pounded  garlic ;  stir  into 
it  (always  stirring  the  same  way,  and  drop  by  drop)  a  glass 
of  olive-oil.  Then  put  your  fish  in  a  saucepan  on  a  slow 
fire,  and  continue  to  stir  in  the  oil  drop  by  drop ;  add  oc- 
casionally a  little  sweet  milk,  until  the  fish  has  the  consist- 
ency of  cream  cheese.  Serve  it  in  a  dish  surrounded  by 
'  croutons  of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Codfish  d  la  Provencals. — Boil  and  drain  your  fish  ;  take 
a  dish  you  can  set  on  the  fire,  slice  some  eschalottes  and 
an  onion  ;  chop  up  some  parsley  ;  add  a  little  olive-oil  and 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg.  Lay  your  fish  in 
this ;  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  this  same  dressing ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
with  fire  above  and  below. 

Fresh  Codfish,  Boiled.  —  Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water 
slightly  salted  for  half  an  hour ;  wipe  it  dry ;  wrap  it  in  a 
clean  linen  cloth  well  floured,  stitched  to  the  shape  of  the 
fish,  and  put  it  into  the  fish-kettle  with  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  The  water  should  be  slightly  salted.  Boil  brisk- 
ly, allowing  an  hour  from  the  time  the  water  fairly  boils 
for  a  piece  of  cod  weighing  three  pounds.  If  boiled  with- 
out the  cloth,  half  an  hour.  Drain,  and  serve  on  a  very 
hot  dish  with  old-fashioned  egg  sauce;  garnish  with  pars- 
ley and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Salt  Codfish,  Boiled. — Put  the  fish  to  soak  in  lukewarm 
water  for  at  least  sixteen  or  seventeen  hours  before  cook- 
ing. Change  the  water  after  two  hours,  then  again  after 
nine  hours,  washing  off  the  salt.     Two  hours  before  din- 


48  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ner  take  out  the  cod,  remove  any  crystal  of  salt  adhering 
to  it,  and  plunge  into  very  cold  water.  Finally,  set  over 
the  fire  with  enough  lukewarm  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil 
half  an  hour ;  drain  well,  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  sliced 
beets  and  hard-boiled  eggs;  drench  with  egg  sauce  and 
serve. 

Codfish  Balls. — Prepare  the  fish  precisely  as  for  boiling 
whole.  When  duly  washed  and  soaked,  cut  into  pieces, 
and  boil  twenty  minutes  more  ;  drain  very  dry,  and  spread 
upon  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cold,  pick  to  pieces  with  a 
fork,  removing  every  vestige  of  skin  and  bone,  and  shred- 
ding very  fine;  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potatoes,  a 
beaten  egg,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  a  little  rich  milk ;  flour 
your  hands,  form  the  codfish  into  round,  flat  cakes,  and  fry 
in  good  drippings  to  a  light  brown.  Desiccated  codfish  is 
equally  good,  more  quickly  prepared,  and  as  cheap. 

Salt  Codfish,  Stewed  with  Eggs. — Prepare  as  for  balls. 
Heat  almost  to  boiling  a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk,  and  stir 
into  it  gradually  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  butter,  and,  lastly, 
the  fish;  boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish  lined 
with  buttered  toast. 

Codfish  Pie. — Take  a  piece  of  the  middle  of  a  small 
cod ;  salt  it  well  one  night ;  next  day  wash  it,  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg,  mixed;  put 
it  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  butter  and  good  broth ; 
cover  with  a  crust,  making  an  aperture  in  the  crust,  and, 
when  the  pie  is  baked,  pour  in  through  this  aperture  a 
sauce  composed  of  one  spoonful  of  stock,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  a  little  flour  and  butter,  a  grate  of  lemon 
and  nutmeg,  and,  if  obtainable,  some  oysters.  The  sauce 
should  be  allowed  to  boil  up  once  before  being  poured 
into  the  pie. 


FISH.  49 

Shrimp  Pie. — A  quart  of  shrimps  well  picked.  If  very 
salt  season  them  with  only  mace  and  a  clove  or  two ;  skin, 
bone,  and  mince  two  or  three  anchovies ;  mix  these  with 
the  spice,  and  then  season  the  shrimps ;  put  some  butter 
in  the  bottom  of  a  dish  and  cover  the  shrimps  with  a  glass 
of  sharp  white  wine.  The  paste  must  be  light  and  thin. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Chowder, Massachusetts. — Five  pounds  of  bass  or  cod  cut 
into  strips  an  inch  thick  and  three  long;  six  large  onions 
fried  in  the  gravy  of  fried  pork;  oysters;  three  cups  of 
oyster  liquor;  oyster  crackers,  well  soaked  in  milk,  and 
thickly  buttered. 

Line  the  bottom  of  the  pot  with  a  layer  of  fish ;  scat- 
ter upon  this  a  few  slices  of  the  fried  onion,  some  salt, 
half  a  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  a  clove  or  two,  a  pinch 
of  thyme,  and  one  of  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  mush- 
room catsup,  and  six  oysters ;  then  a  layer  of  the  soaked 
and  buttered  oyster  crackers ;  then  fish,  etc.  .Repeat  the 
order  already  given  until  the  pot  is  full ;  cover  with  wa- 
ter, and,  as  the  water  boils,  add  the  oyster  liquor.  This  is 
delicious  chowder. 

Chowder,  Rhode  Island. — Four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea 
bass,  cut  into  pieces  four  inches  square ;  one  pound  of  salt 
pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soaked  in  hot  water  five  minutes. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  chowder  pot  with  a  layer  of 
the  pork;  place  on  this  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of 
chopped  onions,  a  little  summer  savory,  parsley,  and  cay- 
enne;  then  a  layer  of  split  cream  crackers,  moistened  with 
warm  water ;  above  this  lay  a  stratum  of  pork ;  and  then 
again  fish,  onions,  seasoning,  and  crackers.  Repeat  this 
order  until  the  dish  is  full ;  let  the  last  layer  of  crackers 
be  well  buttered ;  pour  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover 
all ;  cover  the  pot ;  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  watching  that 
the  water  does  not  sink  too  low.  Should  it  leave  the  up- 
per layer  exposed,  replenish  carefully  from  the  boiling  tea- 

3 


50  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

kettle;  when  thoroughly  cooked  take  out  the  chowder 
and  put  into  the  tureen;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  the  same  of  butter ;  boil  up  once, 
and  pour  over  the  chowder. 

St  James's  Club  Chowder. — Six  slices  of  good  pickled 
pork,  fried  brown  on  both  sides ;  seven  pounds  of  tautog, 
dressed,  with  the  heads  on,  and  each  fish  cut  into  three 
pieces ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  plenty  of  onions,  sliced 
and  chopped;  two  pounds  of  sea  biscuits;  one  quart  bot- 
tle of  the  best  champagne ;  one  tumblerful  of  port  wine. 

Fry  the  pork  in  a  deep  dinner-pot ;  when  fried  take  out 
the  pork,  leaving  the  drippings,  and  put  on  the  drippings 
as  many  pieces  of  fish  as  will  make  a  smooth  layer ;  throw 
on  the  fish  three  handfuls  -of  onions ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste ;  then  put  on  the  six  slices  of  pork ;  then  the  rest  of 
the  fish ;  then,  again,  a  layer  of  onions ;  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste ;  then  pour  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  all ;  put 
the  cover  on  the  pot ;  place  it  on  the  fire ;  let  it  boil  gen- 
tly and  slowly  for  thirty  minutes.  It  is  to  boil,  actually 
boil  thirty  minutes,  and  should  at  all  events  cook  until  the 
onion  is  soft ;  put  in  at  this  point  a  quart  bottle  of  the 
best  champagne,  a  tumblerful  of  equally  good  port  wine, 
and  two  pounds  of  sea  biscuits,  soaked  for  a  moment  or 
two  in  boiling  water;  then  stir  up  all  with  a  long  spoon, 
and  let  all  boil  again  for  five  minutes ;  then  taste,  add 
pepper  and  salt  if  necessary,  and  dish.  Potatoes  may  be 
eaten  with  chowder,  but  should  always  be  boiled  in  a 
separate  pot. 

Clam  Chowder. — Five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork,  fried 
crisp,  and  chopped  fine;  sprinkle  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot; 
place  on  the  pork  a  layer  of  clams ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  all ; 
then  have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  then  one  of  small 
crackers,  split  and  moistened  with  warm  milk;  over  all 
this  pour  a  little  of  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  in  which  the 


FISH.  51 

pork  is  fried  ;  then  proceed  as  above  until  the  pot  is  full, 
or  nearly  so ;  cover  with  water  and  stew,  closely  covered, 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  drain  off  all  the  liquor  that 
will  now  freely ;  and  when  you  have  turned  the  chowder 
into  the  tureen,  pour  the  gravy  back  into  the  pot ;  thicken 
with  cracker  crumbs,  browned  and  rolled ;  add  a  glass  of 
sherry  wine,  some  catsup,  and  spiced  sauce ;  boil  up  once 
and  pour  over  the  chowder. 

Scallops,  Fried. — If  you  do  not  buy  the  scallops  pre- 
pared, boil  them  and  take  out  the  hearts.  The  heart  is  the 
only  part  fit  for  frying  or  stewing.  Dip  in  beaten  egg, 
roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping. 

Raw  Clams. — The  small  Little  Neck  clams  are  excellent 
raw;  serve  in  the  shell,  as  you  do  raw  0}rsters. 

Boast  Clams. — Proceed  as  for  roast  oysters. 

Clam  Fritters. — Twelve  clams,  chopped  fine ;  one  pint 
of  milk ;  three  eggs. 

Pour  the  liquor  from  the  clams  into  the  milk ;  add  to 
this  the  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  fry  in  hot  lard  by  table- 
spoonfuls. 

Scalloped  Clams. — Chop  the  clams  fine,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  then  place  in  another  dish  some  rolled 
bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  milk,  clam  liquor,  and  melt- 
ed butter ;  stir  the  clams  into  this ;  then  serve  in  patty- 
pans, or  clean  buttered  clam  shells,  after  baking  in  the 
oven. 

Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole,  No.  1. — Slice  and  fry  some 
onions  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  slices  of  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pep- 
per ;  clean  and  scale  your  fish ;  cut  it  in  slices ;  put  it  in 
the  saucepan  with  the  onions  and  tomatoes  and  some  wa- 


52  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ter ;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  cook  till  the  fish  is 
done ;  then  add  a  glass  of  claret  or  white  wine,  whichever 
you  prefer ;  let  it  boil  up,  and  take  out  the  slices  of  fish ; 
place  each  slice  on  a  piece  of  toasted  bread,  skim  the  sauce 
and  pour  over,  and  serve. 

Creole  Courtbouillon  for  Fish,  No.  2. — Clean  your  fish 
and  draw  it  through  the  gills;  put  it  in  a  fish  boiler:  cov- 
er it  well  with  water ;  add  a  glass  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper, 
clove,  laurel  leaf,  onions  and  carrots  sliced,  thyme,  and 
parsley ;  let  it  boil  until  the  fish  is  done ;  remove  the  fish 
boiler  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  leave  your  fish  in  the 
courtbouillon  till  you  are  ready  to  serve  it.  The  same 
courtbouillon  can  serve  as  often  as  it  keeps  good.  You 
can  substitute  wine  for  vinegar — using  half  wine  and  half 
water. 

Fish  au  courtbouillon  should  be  served  very  hot  on  a 
folded  napkin  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  bunches  of  parsley. 

Creole  Courtbouillon  for  Sea  Fish,  No.  3.  —  Boil  in 
half  water  and  half  milk;  salt  and  pepper.  The  fish 
becomes  white  and  firm.  Serve  with  highly  seasoned 
sauces. 

Stuffed  Crabs  a  la  Creole. — Boil  your  hard-shell  crabs ; 
remove  the  shells ;  take  out  the  sand  bag  and  the  spongy 
substances  from  the  sides ;  take  out  the  meat  and  fat  care- 
fully, and  chop  them  up  with  chopped  onions,  minced 
ham,  bread  crumbs,  butter  or  oils,  suet,  and  plenty  of  red 
pepper ;  bind  it  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  fry  it  well ; 
clean  the  upper  shell  of  the  crab,  and  stuff  it  with  this 
crab  stuffing;  sprinkle  over  a  little  bread  crumbs  (pow- 
dered) ;  put  on  each  stuffed  crab  a  lump  of  butter,  and 
return  it  to  the  stove  to  bake  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve. 

Crab  Croquettes  are  made  in  the  same  manner ;  serve  in 


FISH.  53 

silver  scallop  shells,  or  powder  them  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard  or  oil. 

Croquettes  of  lobster  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Soft-shell  Crabs  (Italian  Monastery). — Take  some  ten- 
der, healthy,  living  crabs ;  wash  and  clean  them  thorough- 
ly, and  put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  pan,  or  bowl  which  you 
have  previously  filled  with  fresh  milk  or  cream  in  which 
two  or  three  eggs  are  beaten  up ;  leave  the  crabs  in  this 
for  two  hours,  in  which  time  they  will  probably  have  eat- 
en all  the  milk  and  egg,  and  be  so  fat  as  to  be  quite  tor- 
pid and  motionless;  then  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  roll 
them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  in  batter;  garnish 
with  fried  parsley,  pour  a  little  lemon  juice  over  them, 
and  serve. 

Roast  Codfish  (Monastery  of  Certosa). — Take  a  large, 
fresh  codfish  ;  remove  the  head,  scales,  fins,  and  tail ;  open 
and  clean  it  thoroughly;  sprinkle  the  inside  thinly  and 
evenly  with  white  pepper,  powdered  parsley,  two  large 
truffles  very  thinly  sliced,  one  very  small  onion  thinly 
sliced,  some  grated  and  browned  bread  crumbs ;  moisten 
the  whole  with  melted  butter,  in  which  you  have  beaten 
up  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  any  piquant  bottled  sauce.  This  done, 
roll  up  the  codfish  tightly  and  neatly,  binding  it  firmly 
with  twine,  again  bathing  it  thoroughly  with  the  melted 
butter,  prepared  as  above,  and  covering  it  with  grated 
bread  crumbs.  This  done,  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  roast  it 
before  a  clear,  slow  fire  for  an  hour,  basting  it  frequently 
with  the  melted  butter  and  browned  bread  crumbs.  When 
cooked  place  it  in  a  very  hot  dish,  pour  over  it  the  remain- 
der of  the  sauce  with  which  it  was  basted,  and  the  juice 
of  two  lemons;  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  grated  parsley, 
garnish  with  alternate  slices  of  lemon  and  pickled  beets, 
and  serve.  It  will  be  found  delicious.  Plain  boiled  pota- 
toes should  be  served  with  it. 


54  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Roast  Sturgeon  (Italian  Monastery). — Prepare  a  sauce 
in  the  following  manner:  Put  into  a  casserole  a  large 
piece  of  good  butter,  a  pinch  of  flour  (browned),  salt, 
pepper,  parsley,  onion,  sweet  herbs,  spice,  and  a  tiny  piece 
of  red  pepper.  The  casserole  should  previously  have 
been  rubbed  with  garlic.  Add  to  the  mixture  a  large 
glass  of  cold  water  and  half  a  glass  of  the  best  vine- 
gar; let  all  cook  together,  stirring  it  continually,  either 
with  a  silver  or  a  wooden  spoon.  When  the  mixture  is 
thoroughly  assimilated  take  it  from  the  Are,  and  as  soon 
as  it  is  lukewarm,  drop  into  it  the  thick  slices  of  sturgeon. 
They  must,  of  course,  have  been  previously  thoroughly 
cleaned  and  trimmed.  Leave  the  pieces  of  sturgeon  in 
the  above-named  sauce  for  three  hours  or  more;  then  take 
them  out,  let  them  drain,  put  them  on  the  spit,  and  let 
them  roast  before  a  slow  fire,  basting  them  continually 
with  the  sauce;  arrange  in  a  very  hot  dish,  when  cooked, 
and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Mullets  or  Small  Fish  a  la  Zivomese. — Choose  small 
red  mullets  or  other  pan  fish,  taking  care  that  they  should 
not  be  more  than  four  or  five  inches  long.  When  thor- 
oughly cleaned  arrange  them  in  an  earthen  stewpan  with 
a  tiny  pinch  of  garlic,  the  very  finest  quality  of  olive-oil 
(or  good  butter),  a  little  fennel,  parsley,  and  thyme;  when 
partly  cooked  add  a  fair  quantity  of  good  tomato  sauce. 
Before  serving  sprinkle  well  with  the  finest  grated  and 
browned  bread  crumbs. 

Mullets,  White  Bait,  or  other  Pan  Fish,  with  Sauce 
Piquante. — Arrange,  as  before,  in  an  earthen  stewpan, 
putting  in  delicate  young  onions  finely  chopped,  and  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  the  best  olive-oil  (or  good  butter); 
moistening  all  with  broth,  or,  better  still,  with  fish  broth, 
and  a  glass  of  sweet  white  wine.  Just  before  serving  add 
to  this  any  kind  of  sauce  piquante.     (Very  good.) 


FISH.  55 

Carp  a  la  Chambord. — Take  a  large,  fine,  male  carp ; 
cleanse  thoroughly,  bone,  and  stuff"  with  a  mixture  of 
minced  fish,  butter,  bread  crumbs,  and  grated  parsley; 
then  cover  it  with  thin  slices  of  ham  and  fat  bacon,  wrap 
it  in  well  buttered  white  paper,  and  bind  the  whole  neatly 
and  firmly  with  thread ;  place  it  in  a  fish  kettle  with  two 
or  three  glasses  of  good  white  wine,  delicate  young  onions 
chopped  fine,  thyme,  laurel,  celery  seed,  spices,  salt,  and 
pepper,  taking  care  every  now  and  then  to  baste  and  turn 
the  fish  so  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  soaked  and  impreg- 
nated by  the  sauce.  It  should  boil  slowly  for  an  hour, 
with  fire  below  and  above  it ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
let  it  drain,  remove  carefully  the  paper  and  threads,  and 
arrange  the  carp  daintily  in  a  very  hot  dish ;  garnishing 
it  with  tiny  fish,  truffles,  slices  of  lemon,  prawns,  crawfish, 
slices  of  fried  bread  cut  into  pretty  shapes,  etc.,  pour 
round  it  the  best  kind  of  white  sauce,  to  which  has  been 
added  the  sauce  in  which  it  was  cooked.  It  should  be 
served  very  hot. 

Stewed  Eels. — Skin  and  clean  the  eels,  carefully  extract- 
ing the  fat  from  the  inside ;  cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch 
and  a  half,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  throw  in  a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley, 
and  stew  slowly,  carefully  covered,  for  an  hour ;  add,  at 
the  last,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of 
browned  flour  mixed  with  cold  water,  a  wineglassful  of 
sherry,  and  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  cut  into  the  thinnest 
possible  slices. 

Fried  Eels. — Prepare  as  for  stewing,  roll  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter  to  a  fine  brown. 

Lobsters  Boiled. — Lobsters  for  boiling  should  be  lively, 
and  not  too  large.  Tie  the  claws  together,  put  a  handful 
of  salt  in  the  boiling  water,  and  plunge  in  your  lobster ; 
boil  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour,  according  to  size ;  when 


56  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

done  remove  from  the  pot,  and  lay — face  downward — on 
a  sieve  to  dry ;  when  cold  split  open  the  body  and  tail,  ex- 
tract the  meat  from  the  claws,  and  throw  away  the  lady 
fingers  and  the  head. 

Lobster  Croquettes. — The  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster 
chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  pow- 
dered mace;  mix  this  with  a  quarter  of  the  quantity  of 
rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter;  make  into  oval  balls;  roll  these  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  fry  in  butter;  serve  very 
hot. 

Lobster  d  la  Bordelaise. — Boil  your  lobster  in  water 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  slices  of  carrots,  on- 
ions, a  bay  leaf,  a  clove  of  garlic,  salt,  and  pepper ;  let  it 
boil  a  few  moments ;  take  off  the  shell  and  cut  it  across  in 
eight  pieces ;  break  the  claws  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  some  white  wine,  a  soup  bunch,  salt,  and  pepper; 
cover  the  saucepan  and  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes;  fry 
some  chopped  onions  in  butter  in  another  saucepan,  add  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  make  a  roux,  and  pour  it  in  the  sauce- 
pan in  which  you  have  cooked  the  lobster  claws ;  let  it 
cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden 
spoon ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce,  and  cay- 
enne pepper ;  put  your  slices  of  lobster  in  this,  let  them 
warm  through,  and  serve  liot. 

Hot  Lobster  (William  Makepeace  Thackeray).  —  Pull 
about  three  pounds  of  boiled  lobster  to  pieces  with  two 
silver  forks;  make  a  sauce  of  mustard,  vinegar,  tomato 
catsup,  and  plenty  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt ;  put  lob- 
ster, sauce,  and  half  a  pound  of  good  fresh  butter  into  a 
chafing-dish ;  close  or  cover  the  chafing-dish  tightly,  and 
when  the  lobster  begins  to  cook,  open  the  chafing-dish 
and  stir  quickly  with  a  silver  spoon  ;  cook  twenty  min- 
utes, if  necessary ;  and  two  minutes  before  blowing  out 


FISH.  57 

the  fire  under  the  chafing-dish,  open  it  for  a  moment,  and 
throw  in  a  wineglassful  of  good  sherry,  stirring  quickly, 
as  before.     "  This  is  a  dish  fit  for  an  emperor." 

Potted  Lobster. — Half  boil  the  lobsters,  pick  out  the 
meat,  cut  into  small  bits,  season  with  mace,  white  pepper, 
nutmeg,  and  salt,  press  close  into  an  earthenware  pot,  cover 
with  butter,  bake  half  an  hour,  and  put  the  spawn  in  ;  when 
cold  take  the  lobster  out,  and  pack  into  small  jars  with  a 
little  of  the  butter;  beat  the  other  butter  in  a, mortar  with 
some  of  the  spawn ;  then  mix  that  colored  butter  with  as 
much  as  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  the  pots,  and  strain  it. 
Cayenne  may  be  added  if  approved. 

Gurry  of  Lobsters  or  Prawns. — Parboil,  take  them  from 
the  shells,  and  lay  in  a  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  mace, 
three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  veal  gravy,  and  four  of  cream  ; 
rub  smooth  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry-powder,  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  an  ounce  of  butter;  simmer  an 
hour;  salt  to  taste,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon. 

Cold  Boiled  Sahnon. — May  be  made  into  croquettes, 
mayonnaise,  a  stew  of  potatoes  and  salmon,  or,  better  still, 
devilled — following  Thackeray's  receipt  for  devilled  lob- 
ster. 

Boiled  Halibut. — Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  an  hour ; 
wipe  dry,  and  score  the  skin  in  squares;  put  into  the  ket- 
tle with  cold  salted  water  enough  to  cover  it ;  let  it  heat 
gradually,  and  boil  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour: 
drain  and  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish,  with  sauce  Hollondaise 
or  any  other  sauce  you  prefer. 

Cold  boiled  halibut  may  be  treated  like  cold  boiled  salm- 
on.    (See  receipts  above.) 

Baked  Halibut. — A  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or 

3* 


58  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

six  pounds ;  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours ;  wipe 
dry  and  score  the  skin  in  squares;  bake  in  a  tolerably  hot 
oven  for  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water; 
test  with  a  silver  fork;  if  the  fork  penetrate  easily  it  is 
done.  It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown.  Add  to  the  gravy 
in  the  dripping-pan  a  tablespoonfnl  of  walnut  catsup,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce ;  thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
over  the  halibut ;  serve  in  a  very  hot  dish. 

Cold  Devilled  Halibut  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold").— One  pound  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  halibut, minced 
very  fine,  and  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  rich  cream ;,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white 
sugar  (sifted);  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one  teaspoonful 
of  made  mustard;  one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce;  a  soupgon  of  .anchovy  paste ;  a  small  teacupful  of 
celery  vinegar. 

Work  all  this  smoothly  into  a  rich  dressing,  with  enough 
cream  to  give  it  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise;  stir  it  into 
the  minced  fish  ;  heap  in  a  mound,  and  garnish  with  curled 
lettuce,  whites  of  eggs  cut  into  rings,  and  rounds  of  pick- 
led beets. 

Mamie's  Scalloped  Halibut. — Boil  the  fish,  and  when 
quite  cold  shred  finely ;  make  a  rich  sauce  as  follows : 
Yolk  of  one  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour ;  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk. 

Put  into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  constantly  over  the  fire 
until  smooth  and  thick;  do  not  let  it  boil;  add  salt  to 
taste,  a  little  black  pepper,  and  cayenne;  butter  a  deep 
dish,  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  sauce;  cover 
the  top  with  rolled  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

Halibut  Steaks. — Clean  the  fish,  skin,  and  cut  into  neat 
slices;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg, and 


FISH.  59 

roll  in  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  in  boiling  lard  to  a 
light  brown  ;  arrange  in  a  circle  on  a  dish,  and  poor  a  rich 
cream  sauce  in  the  middle. 

Boiled  Mackerel. — Clean  the  mackerel,  and  wipe  care- 
fully with  a  dry,  clean  cloth ;  wash  them  lightly  with  an- 
other cloth  dipped  in  vinegar;  wrap  in  a  coarse  linen 
cloth,  floured,  basted  closely  to  the  shape  of  the  fish;  put 
into  a  pot,  cover  with  salted  water,  and  boil  gently  half 
an  hour;  drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  egg 
sauce,  or  any  sauce  you  prefer. 

Broiled  Mackerel  (Salt). — Soak  over-night  in  lukewarm 
water;  change  this  early  in  the  morning  for  very  cold, 
and  let  it  lie  in  this  until  it  is  time  to  cook;  then  clean 
thoroughly,  and  wipe  quite  dry ;  split  open  and  lay  on  a 
buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  when  it  begins  to 
brown  turn  the  other  side  ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  plen- 
tifully, and  cover  for  a  few  moments. 

Boast  Pike. — Prepare  and  draw  your  fish,  lard  it  well, 
split  it,  baste  it  while  roasting  with  white  wine,  vinegar, 
or  lemon  juice,  and  serve  it  with  a  rich  sauce,  in  which 
you  chop  up  some  oysters  and  anchovies. 

Fried  Carp. — Scale  and  draw  a  fine  carp ;  split  it  down 
the  back ;  put  aside  the  fat  and  the  eggs  ;  steep  your  carp 
in  vinegar,  with  thyme,  laurel  leaf,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pep- 
per ;  take  it  out,  dry  it  in  a  towel,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  When  it  is  nearly  done 
throw  the  fat  and  eggs,  also  sprinkled  with  flour,  into  the 
frying-pan,  and  let  them  fry  a  good  color;  sprinkle  fine 
salt  over  your  fish  ;  dress  the  fat  and  eggs  on  the  dish  with 
the  fish ;  serve,  garnished  with  fried  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon. 

Broiled  Mackerel,  No.  1. — Prepare  and  clean  your  fish ; 


60  THE   UNKIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  envelop  it  in  buttered 
paper,  broil  it  on  a  gridiron,  and  serve  it  with  a  maitre 
d  hotel  sauce. 

Broiled  Mackerel  a  la  Creole,  So.  2. — Clean  and  pre- 
pare your  fish  ;  split  it  in  the  back;  wrap  it  in  oiled  paper, 
and  broil  it  on  the  gridiron.  Just  before  serving,  remove 
the  paper,  and  put  in  the  fish  a  lump  of  fresh  butter,  in 
which  you  have  kneaded  some  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper. 
The  heat  of  the  fish  melts  the  butter. 

Stuffed  Trout. — Prepare  your  fish  ;  make  a  stuffing  of 
mushrooms,  scraps  of  fish,  crumbs  of  bread,  onions,  salt, 
and  pepper,  chopped  up  with  butter.  Stuff  your  fish  with 
this ;  tie  them  up  carefully,  and  cook  them  in  a  court- 
bouillon ;  drain  them,  and  let  them  cool;  dip  them 
twice  in  beaten  eggs ;  fry  them,  and  serve  with  a  tomato 
sauce. 

Fricandeau  of  Fish. — Lard  some  slices  of  any  firm  fish  ; 
sprinkle  with  flour,  and  fry  them  slightly  in  lard.  Put 
some  veal  broth  in  a  saucepan  with  some  mushrooms, 
truffles,  fine  herbs,  artichoke  bottoms,  and  slices  of  celery  ; 
let  it  cook  till  done ;  skim,  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Arrange  your  slices  of  fish  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  this 
sauce. 

Salt  Fish  (Spanish  fashion). — Take  any  kind  of  very 
salt  fish,  soak  for  twenty-four  hours,  skin,  bone,  and  pick 
into  small  flakes  ;  then  boil  until  soft,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Slice  finely  a  couple  of  onions,  fry  them  in  butter  until 
they  begin  to  color;  add  some  tomato  sauce,  a  soupcon 
of  pepper,  and  the  salt  fish.  Let  the  whole  simmer  on 
a  slow  fire  for  a  couple  of  hours,  shaking  the  saucepan 
occasionally. 


FISH.  61 

Baked  Mullet— Scale  and  trim  the  fish,  and  put  it  into 
a  frying-pan  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  with 
chopped  onions  and  mushrooms ;  moisten  with  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  sherry  and  a  little  butter;  bake  it  over  a  slow  fire  for 
twenty  minutes  if  a  medium-sized  fish;  keep  well  basting 
in  the  liquor,  and  turn  now  and  then  ;  dish  up  very  care- 
fully. Make  a  sauce  with  half  a  glassful  of  sherry,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  twelve  drops  of  anchovy 
sauce.  Reduce  the  gravy  to  one  half  by  boiling,  and  pour 
over  the  fish. 

Oysters,  to  Feed. — Put  them  into  water,  and  wash  with 
a  birch  besom  until  quite  clean;  then  lay  them  round,  side 
downwards,  in  a  pan  ;  sprinkle  with  flour  or  oatmeal  and 
salt,  and  cover  with  water;  do  the  same  every  day  and 
they  will  fatten.  The  water  should  be  pretty  salt,  and 
rather  more  so  than  sea  water.  Bay  salt  is  the  best  for 
the  purpose  when  it  is  at  hand. 

Oyster  Loaves. — Open  the  oysters ;  save  their  liquor, 
strain  it,  and  then  put  the  oysters  to  stew  in  it  with  a  very 
little  butter  and  flour,  white  pepper,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg, 
and  a  little  cream ;  stew  till  tender,  and  then  cut  the 
oysters  into  dice  and  stuff  small  hollowed  rolls  of  bread 
with  them ;  put  on  a  hot  dish ;  pour  over  the  rolls  the 
sauce  in  which  the  oysters  were  cooked,  and  serve. 

Raw  Oysters. — Raw  oysters  when  first  served  for  a  din- 
ner which  is  carved  on  the  table  should  be  placed  in  their 
shells,  on  a  block  of  ice,  in  the  centre  of  the  table. 

When  the  dinner  is  carved  and  served  from  side  tables, 
the  oysters  should  be  served  in  small  plates  of  ice,  of 
course  in  their  shells.  Raw  oysters  are  never  removed 
from  their  shells.  These  plates  should  be  placed  on  folded 
napkins.  If  the  ice  plates  cannot  be  obtained,  oyster 
plates  should  be  used.  Sliced  lemon  should  be  invariably 
served  with  oysters,  but  no  sauce  of  any  kind.     The  serv- 


62  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ing  of  raw  oysters  on  ice,  is,  of  course,  a  matter  of  taste. 
Oyster  plates  are  equally  available,  and  in  the  opinion  of 
many  dinner-givers  much  prettier,  but  the  oysters  should 
always  be  kept  on  the  ice  beforehand. 

Oyster  Patties. — Stew  the  oysters,  as  for  oyster  stew, 
taking  care,  however,  to  make  the  sauce  much  thicker. 
Have  ready  some  small  shells  of  puff  paste  which  have 
been  heated  on  a  tin.  Fill  these  shells  with  the  oysters, 
set  for  a  moment  in  the  oven,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and 
add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  milk  (in  the  proportion  of 
cup  to  cup),  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  for 
a  thin  batter.  Have  ready  in  the  frying  pan  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  boiling  lard ;  try  it,  to  be  assured  that  it  is  sufli- 
ently  hot,  and  drop  the  oyster  batter  in  by  the  spoonful; 
fry  quickly  a  light  brown  ;  drain  on  white  paper,  and 
send  to  table. 

Cream  Oysters  on  Half-shell. — Cook  together  a  bain- 
marie  one  cup  of  oyster  juice,  one  of  milk,  and  one  of 
cream,  with  a  little  salt.  When  it  boils,  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  some  white  pepper ; 
have  ready  some  fine  large  oyster  shells,  washed  and  but- 
tered, and  with  a  line  oyster  in  each ;  range  them  closely 
in  a  large  baking-pan  ;  take  the  cream  from  the  fire,  and 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  mixed  with  cold 
milk ;  replace  the  casserole  on  the  fire,  stir  very  hard  ; 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  fill  up  the  oyster  shells  with  the 
cream  ;  bake  five  or  six  minutes  in  the  oven  after  the 
shells  become  warm. 

Roast  Oysters. — Wash  and  wipe  the  shells,  and  lay  them 
in  a  quick  oven,  or  on  the  top  of  the  stove.  When  they 
open  they  are  done.     Pile  on  a  large  dish  and  send  to 


FISH.  63 

table.     Remove  the   upper  shell  with  a  knife  ;   season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  or  milk. 

Or,  open  while  raw,  leaving  the  oysters  on  the  lower 
shells  ;  lay  in  a  large  baking-pan,  and  roast  in  their  shells, 
adding  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  before  serving. 

Oyster  Omelette. — One  dozen  of  large  oysters,  chopped 
fine;  six  eggs,  well  beaten;  two  ounces  of  melted  butter; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Mix  a  teaspoonfnl  of  flour  with  milk  enough  to  make 
it  smooth,  and  beat  it  into  melted  butter;  then  add  the 
eggs,  oysters,  and  seasoning,  beating  all  well  together;  fry 
like  any  other  omelette,  and,  just  before  it  is  put  into  the 
pan,  add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley  in  a  cablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter. 

Oyster  Pie. — One  quart  of  oysters ;  one  cup  of  milk ; 
two  eggs, well  beaten;  two  spoonfuls  of  butter;  salt,  pep- 
per, and  nutmeg.    Bake  in  a  deep  dish,  in  a  good  rich  crust. 

Baltimore  Oyster  Pie. — Make  a  puff  paste  of  one  pound 
of  butter,  flaked  into  one  pound  of  sifted  flour,  wet  to  a 
stiff  dough  with  ice  water,  and  rolled  out  on  a  marble  slab, 
or  in  a  very  cold  room.  Handle  it  as  little  as  possible. 
Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  dish,  holding  more  than  two 
quarts,  with  this  paste.  Having  stripped  the  oysters, 
season  them  thoroughly  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace ;  cut  up  six  ounces  of  butter  into  little  bits, 
and  stir  through  the  oysters,  with  half  a  teacupful  of 
grated  bread ;  then  strain  the  oyster  liquor  carefully, 
and  put  all  into  a  dish ;  cover  it  with  paste,  rolled  about 
one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  with  an  opening  in  the  centre ; 
cut  out  with  a  cake  cutter,  or  jagging  iron,  ornamental 
bits  of  paste,  and  arrange  around  the  edge,  and  above  the 
opening ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  from  half  to  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  If  the  crust  browns  too  quickly  cover  with 
paper.     Just  before  the  pie  is  done  pour  in  a  teacupful 


64  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  cream  through  the  aperture  in  the  top.     Two  quarts  of 
oysters  make  a  good  pie. 

Fricasseed  Oysters. — Scald  fifty  oysters  in  their  own 
juice,  carefully  skimming  off  the  scum.  Strain  off  and 
reject  the  juice ;  put  the  oysters  into  a  hot  covered  tureen, 
and  set  it  aside  in  a  warm  place;  rub  well  together  six 
ounces  of  butter;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  with  as 
much  scalding  milk,  into  a  fine,  smooth  paste;  stir  this 
mixture  into  a  quart  of  hot  milk  in  a  stewpan  on  the  fire ; 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  ground 
allspice  and  mace ;  stir  it  until  it  thickens  ;  then  stir  in 
four  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  taking  care  that  the  mix- 
ture is  not  hot  enough  to  curdle  the  eggs  ;  pour  this  over 
the  oysters  in  the  baking-dish ;  cover  them  thickly  with 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  with 
butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish ;  then  a  layer  of  oysters, 
and  so  on,  alternating,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Use  pepper, 
and,  if  the  oysters  are  fresh,  salt ;  when  the  dish  is  full, 
add  a  gill  of  wine  ;  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Scalloped  -Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. — Fill  the  deep  sides 
of  large  oyster  shells  with  oysters  and  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  prepared  with  small  bits  of  butter,  and  spice  and 
salt  to  taste  ;  place  the  shells  in  a  pan,  and  bake  them  a 
short  time  in  the  oven.  Clams,  with  the  hard  parts  re- 
moved, may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

Fried  Oysters. — Use  only  the  largest  oysters  for  frying. 
Wipe  them  dry  with  a  cloth;  dip  each  one  separately 
into  beaten  egg  and  cracker,  or  stale  bread  crumbs,  or 
Indian  meal;  fry  quickly  in  boiling  lard. 

Oyster  Salad. — Strain  the  juice  of  the  oysters,  and  boil 
it ;  when  boiling,  throw  in  the  oysters,  well  washed,  and 


FISH.  65 

let  them  become  plump ;  then  drain  them  thoroughly 
into  a  colander.  When  perfectly  cold  put  them  into  a 
salad  bowl,  and  cover  them  with  a  rich,  creamy  salad 
dressing. 

Boiled  Oysters. — Wash  the  oysters  very  clean;  put 
them  in  a  wire  basket,  and  immerse  the  basket  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water.  The  moment  the  shells  open,  remove 
the  basket  from  the  water ;  take  off  the  upper  shells,  and 
serve  them  on  large  dishes,  hot,  in  the  lower  shell. 

To  Broil  Oysters. — Select  the  largest  and  finest  oysters. 
Dry  them  in  a  towel,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  lay  them  inside  of  a  folding  wire  broiler ;  turn 
the  broiler  frequently  from  side  to  side  to  keep  the  juice 
from  flowing  out ;  have  ready  a  very  hot  dish,  and,  as 
you  place  the  oysters  upon  it,  put  little  pieces  of  butter 
on  them,  and  serve  at  once. 

Steamed  Oysters. — Drain  the  oysters  well,  washing  each 
one  in  the  liquor  to  remove  the  pieces  of  shell ;  put  them 
in  a  tin  plate  inside  of  a  steamer  already  placed  over  a  pot 
of  water  that. is  boiling;  cover  the  steamer  tight  with  its 
lid,  and  have  the  oysters  in  the  hot  steam  until  they  puff 
up  and  curl.  Serve  on  a  hot  covered  dish,  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

Panned  Oysters. — Drain  the  oysters,  and  put  them  on 
the  fire  in  a  hot  place,  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  the 
oysters  are  puffed,  pour  them  into  a  hot  dish  with  some 
lumps  of  butter. 

Griddled  Oysters. — Take  the  largest  and  finest  oysters ; 
dry  them  in  a  cloth  ;  heat  the  griddle  as  for  baking  cakes, 
and  grease  it ;  have  close  to  the  fire  a  dish  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  in  it ;  lay  the  oysters  on  the  griddle, 
they  will    brown    almost   immediately ;  brown    on    both 


66  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

sides,  and  drop  them  in  the  dish  with  the  butter ;    the 
juice  will  soon  flow  and  make  the  gravy. 

Mince  Oysters.— Mince  twenty-five  oysters  fine  in  their 
own  liquor;  stir  in  bread  crumbs,  olive-oil,  salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar ;  put  alternate  layers  of  the  mince,  and  soda 
cracker  wet  with  wine,  into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  until 
nicely  browned. 

Stewed  Oysters,  No.  1. — Fifty  oysters;  two  ounces  of 
butter;  a  small  tablespoonful  of  flour;  half  a  pint  of 
cream;  a  little  nutmeg;  a  very  little  mace;  cayenne  and 
white  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  the  butter  and  flour  into  a  stewpan,  and  stir 
well  together  until  quite  thick,  but  do  not  let  them  boil 
for  more  than  a  minute,  then  add  the  cream,  nutmeg, 
mace,  and  pepper;  stir  hard  for  four  or  Ave  minutes; 
then  add  fifty  oysters  drained  from  their  liquor.  When 
cooked,  just  as  you  take  them  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Stewed  Oysters,  No.  2. — One  hundred  oysters ;  a  little 
salt;  one  large  blade  of  mace;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  a  little  sifted  flour ;  one  teacupfnl  of  cream ;  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  cayenne. 

Drain  them,  and  let  cold  water  run  over  them  through 
a  colander ;  when  washed  and  drained,  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  salt,  and  a  large  blade  of  mace; 
let  them  stand  on  a  cool  part  of  the  range  for  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon;  then  add  the 
butter  and  flour ;  simmer  five  minutes ;  add  the  cream 
and  cayenne.  When  the  oysters  begin  to  curl  they  are 
cooked. 

Oyster  Toast. — Make  some  good  buttered  toast,  cut  into 
small  squares  or  rounds,  and  pour  over  them  some  oysters 
stewed  in  equal  parts  of  milk  and  cream,  and  highly  spiced; 


FISH.  67 

heap  the  oysters  on  the  toast ;  pour  over  the  sauce,  and 
serve. 

Oyster  Sausages. — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chicken  or 
veal,  chopped  fine  ;  three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  rolled 
fine,  and  moistened  with  oyster  juice ;  one  ounce  of  beef 
suet,  chopped  ;  thirty  oysters,  chopped  ;  half  a  yolk  of  an 

egg- 
Season  with  mace,  cayenne,  and  black   pepper,  mould 

into  long  sausages,  and  fry.     To  be  served  with  a  rich, 

brown  gravy. 

Virginia  Spiced  Oysters. — One  gallon  of  oysters ;  liq- 
uor of  the  oysters  strained ;  one  tablespoonfnl  of  whole 
allspice  ;  one  saltspoonful  of  powdered  mace ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  whole  pepper;  one  pint  and  a  half  of  best 
vinegar. 

Boil  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  quickly,  and  skim  it 
thoroughly ;  then  add  the  spices  and  vinegar,  and  allow  it 
to  boil  again  ;  plunge  the  oysters  into  cold  water;  let  them 
drain  well,  and  then  throw  them  into  the  hot  spiced  liquor; 
give  them  a  quick  boil,  and  set  them  away  in  a  stone 
jar ;  add  salt,  if  the  oysters  are  fresh ;  do  not  cover  them 
until  cool.  Before  serving,  add  small  angular  pieces  of 
lemon. 

Pickled  Oysters. — As  many  oysters  as  will  fill  a  gallon 
measure  without  the  liquor  ;  wash  them  well  in  the  liquor, 
removing  all  the  shell ;  strain  the  liquor,  and  cook  the 
oysters  in  it,  adding  salt,  if  necessary  ;  let  the  oysters 
cook  until  the  fins  are  well  shrivelled ;  then  take  out 
the  oysters,  and  let  them  cool  on  large  dishes  ;  add  some 
mace  and  whole  pepper  to  the  liquor,  carefully  skimming 
off  the  scum  ;  pour  it  into  a  large  pan,  and,  when  quite 
cold,  add  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  half  a  pint  of  strong 
vinegar ;  put  the  oysters  in  jars,  and  cover  them  with  this 
liquor. 


68  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Oysters  a  la  Certosa  (Italian  monastery). — Make  four 
thin,  light  omelettes;  do  not  fold  them,  but  have  ready  a 
well-buttered  casserole  or  deep  disli ;  sprinkle  the  bottom 
with  bread  crumbs;  upon  this  place  an*  omelette,  having 
the  browned  side  uppermost ;  sprinkle  again  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  minced  fish,  prepared  as  indicated  below; 
then  another  omelette  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  put- 
ting a  layer  of  minced  fish,  as  before,  and  so  on,  until  the 
form  is  filled,  taking  care  to  cover  the  last  layer  of  fish 
with  a  thick  layer  of  bread  crumbs ;  stick  small  pieces  of 
butter  over  it;  then  put  in  a  quick  oven,  and  let  it  remain 
until  thoroughly  browned ;  pin  a  clean  napkin  round  the 
dish,  and  serve. 

To  prepare  the  fish :  Cook  some  oysters  and  clams 
over  a  slow  fire,  for  half  an  hour,  seasoning  with  a  very 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice  ;  then  take  them  from 
the  fire  ;  drain,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  them  in  butter,' with  some  minced  onion  and  grated 
parsley.  The  moment  they  begin  to  brown  take  them 
from  the  fire,  and  proceed  as  indicated  above. 

Fried  Oysters,  Delmonicd's. — Open  your  oysters ;  wrap 
them  in  a  dry  cloth  till  the  surface  moisture  is  absorbed; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  them  in  the  white  of 
an  egg  slightly  beaten,  then  into  pulverized  crackers;  put 
equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter  in  a  frying-pan  ;  heat  boil- 
ing hot,  and  throw  in  your  oysters ;  fry,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.  Serve  with  quarters  of  lemons  around  the 
dish. 

Soft-shell  Crabs  d  la  Creole. — Pull  off  the  spongy  sub- 
stances from  the  sides  ;  take  out  the  sand  bags;  wash  well, 
wipe,  dry,  dip  them  in  olive-oil,  and  broil  quickly.  Serve 
with  lemon  juice  squeezed  over  them. 

Shrimp  or  Crab  Mayonnaise  (Madame  Eugene). — Boil 
and  peel  your  shrimps  or  crabs  ;  make  a  rich  mayonnaise 


FISH.  69 

dressing,  and  serve  over  them ;    garnish  your  dish  with 
tender  lettuce  leaves. 

Broiled  Salmon  d  la  Creole. — Take  either  the  tail  or 
slices  of  salmon,  cut  crosswise ;  prepare  them  nicely,  and 
let  them  soak  in  olive -oil,  with  salt,  thyme,  laurel  leaf, 
eschalottes,  and  parsley  ;  put  the  slices  on  the  gridiron  ; 
baste  them  with  the  oil  in  which  they  have  steeped  ;  when 
done,  remove  the  skin  from  the  slices,  arrange  them  on  a 
dish,  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce  with  capers,  or  with 
sliced  pickles. 

Picnic  Fish  (Carolina  receipt). — As  soon  as  the  fish 
are  taken  out  of  the  water  draw  them  through  the  gills 
and  wipe  the  inside  carefully ;  never  scale  them,  or  let 
them  touch  water;  put  in  each  fish  a  lump  of  butter, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  a  paste  of  mud; 
cover  your  fish  thickly  with  it,  and  throw  them  in  hot 
coals ;  when  the  mud  cracks  the  fish  are  done  ;  take  them 
out  of  the  fire  ;  break  them  open  ;  the  scales  come  off  and 
the  bones  come  out,  and  you  have  a  dish  fit  for  a  king. 

Sole  &  la  Parisienne. —  Clean  your  fish;  cut  off  the 
heads  and  tails;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  chopped 
parsley,  sliced  onions,  salt,  and  pepper ;  pour  melted  but- 
ter over  them ;  let  them  cook  on  a  quick  fire,  and  stir,  to 
keep  them  from  adhering  to  each  other.  Serve  them  with 
an  Italian  sauce,  made  in  the  following  manner: 

Put  in  a  saucepan  a  chopped  eschalotte,  some  chopped 
mushrooms,  parsley,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine ;  let  it  sim- 
mer; add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  spoonful  of  olive-oil;  let  it 
boil  up,  and  add  the  quantity  of  bouillon  you  need  for 
the  sauce ;  cook  it,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  serve, 
poured  over  the  fish. 

Roast  Shad. — Take  a  fine  fat  shad  ;  scale  it,  and  draw 
it  through  the  gills ;  make  oblique  incisions  on  the  back, 


70  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

and  let  it  steep  in  olive -oil,  with  parsley,  thyme,  escha- 
lottes,  salt,  and  pepper ;  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  baste  it 
with  the  marinade  in  which  it  has  steeped ;  serve  it  on  a 
napkin,  in  a  dish  garnished  with  green  parsley,  and  serve 
in  a  sauce-boat  a  sauce  Genevoise. 

Boiled  Salmon. — Wash  and  wipe  the  fish  ;  wrap  it  in  a 
clean  linen  cloth,  kept  expressly  for  this  purpose  ;  baste  it 
up  securely,  and  put  into  the  fish  kettle;  cover  with  cold 
water,  in  which  has  been  melted  a  handful  of  salt ;  boil 
slowly,  allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound  ;  when 
the  time  is  up,  rip  open  a  corner  of  the  cloth,  and  test  the 
salmon  with  a  silver  or  wooden  fork;  if  it  penetrate  easily, 
it  is  done ;  if  not,  sew  up  the  cloth  quickly,  and  cook  until 
tender,  skimming  the  scum, as  it  rises.  When  the  fish  is 
done,  take  it  instantly  from  the  kettle,  remove  the  cloth, 
lay  for  an  instant  on  a  clean  cloth,  until  it  has  drained, 
transfer  carefully  to  a  very  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it 
a  sauce,  which  must  be  made  in  the  following  manner, 
while  the  salmon  cooks: 

One  pint  of  rich,  fresh  cream  ;  one  half  gill  of  the  water 
in  which  the  salmon  has  cooked ;  a  large  spoonful  of  but- 
ter;  a  pinch  of  salt;  a  little  roasted  powdered  parsley. 
Cook  a  hain-marie,  stirring  constantly;  let  it  boil  up  once, 
and  when  the  salmon  is  dished  pour  over  the  sauce,  reserv- 
ing a  little  in  a  sauce-boat ;  garnish  the  salmon  with  curled 
lettuce  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

.Baked  Salmon. — Wash,  and  wipe  dry,  and  rub  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  soujpcon  of  cayenne;  lay  the  fish  on 
a  buttered  grating  set  over  your  baking-pan,  and  bake; 
basting  freely,  at  first  with  butter,  and  lastly  with  its  own 
drippings ;  should  it  brown  too*  fast,  cover  the  top  with  a 
sheet  of  white  paper ;  when  done,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
cover  closely,  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  a 
glassful  of  sherry,  a  spoonful  of  tomato  sauce,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  a  little  hot  water  thickened  with  browned 


FISH.  71 

flour.     Serve  in  a  sauce-boat.     Hot  mayonnaise  is  also 
excellent  with  baked  salmon. 

Salmon  Steaks. — Wipe,  and  dry  well  with  a  cloth ; 
dredge  with  flour,  and  cook  on  a  well-buttered  gridiron, 
over  a  clear,  hot  fire ;  turn  carefully ;  when  cooked,  lay  on 
a  hot  dish ;  butter  each  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

Fielded  Salmon. — Make  a  pickle  of  two  quarts  of  the 
best  vinegar;  twelve  blades  of  mace;  twelve  white  pep- 
pers; one  or  two  minced  shallots;  twelve  cloves;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  made  mustard  ;  some  small  red-pepper  pods ; 
three  teaspoonf uls  of  white  sugar ;  three  celery  seeds ; 
one  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  salmon  has  boiled. 

Mix,  put  in  an  earthenware  jar,  cover,  and  set  away. 
The  salmon  must  previously  have  been  cleaned,  and  cut 
into  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and  half  an  inch  wide, 
and  boiled  in  salted  water ;  when  well  boiled  it  should  be 
drained,  dried  with  a  cloth,  and  set  aside  until  the  next 
day ;  then  put  on  the  pickle  over  a  brisk  tire,  and  when  it 
boils  drop  in  the  salmon  very  carefully;  let  the  pickle 
boil  up  once  again  ;  then  set  back  the  kettle  on  the  range, 
fish  out  the  salmon,  and  pack  quickly  and  closely  into 
glass  jars ;  fill  with  the  boiling  pickle  until  it  overflows, 
screw  down  the  top,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Salm- 
on so  prepared  will  keep  for  years. 

Boast  Sturgeon  d  la  Creole. — Take  a  medium-sized  stur- 
geon or  slices  of  any  large  fish ;  lard  it  well  with  spiced 
lard ;  let  it  steep  in  white  wine,  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
spices ;  roast  it  on  the  spit,  basting  with  the  marinade  in 
which  it  has  steeped,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  piquante. 

Salmon  d  la  Creole. — Yonng  salmon  are  eaten,  cooked 
au  courtbouillon  with  red  wine,  fried,  or,  better  still,  cooked 
in  a  little  consomme  with  a  little  champagne,  to  which  you 


V2  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Idd  some  slices  of  lean  cooked  ham,  a  soup  bunch,  chopped 
fcschalottes,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Roast  Salmon  a  la  Creole. — Clean  and  scale  your  fish  ; 
lard  it  and  cover  with  slices  of  bacon ;  roast  it  on  a  spit ; 
when  it  is  done  serve  it  on  a  puree  of  sorrel,  or  a,  puree  of 
finely  chopped  ham  and  mushrooms. 

Smoked  Salmon  a  la  Creole. — Slice  your  salmon,  fry  it 
in  oil,  drain  well  on  brown  paper;  squeeze  lemon  juice 
over  it,  and  serve  without  any  other  preparation. 

Boiled  Salmon-Trout. — Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  trout ; 
envelop  in  a  thin  cloth  fitted  neatly  to  the  fish  ;  lay  within 
the  fish-kettle,  cover  with  cold  salted  water,  and  boil  gen- 
tly half  an  hour  or  longer,  according  to  the  size ;  when 
done,  unwrap  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish;  pour  cream  sauce 
round  it,  and  serve.  , 

Cream  Pickerel.  —  -Reserve  the  large  pickerel  —  those 
over  three  pounds  in  weight — for  baking,  and  bake  exact- 
ly as  you  bake  salmon-trout. 

Trout  Broiled  in  Paper. — Envelop  small  trout,  or  any 
other  pan  fish,  in  strong  white  letter  paper,  well  buttered  ; 
pin  up  securely,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear 
fire,  turning  often  and  dexterously. 

Roekfish  and  River  Bass. — Prepare  and  cook  like  fresh 
cod ;  allowing,  however,  a  shorter  time  for  boiling. 

Baked  Salmon- Trout. — Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  carefully, 
and  lay  in  the  baking-pan  with  just  enough  water  to  keep 
it  from  scorching;  if  large,  score  the  backbone  with  a 
sharp  knife ;  bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and 
water.  By  the  time  it  is  cooked,  have  ready  a  cupful  of 
cream  diluted  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  into 


FISH.  73 

which  has  been  stirred  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter and  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  heat  this  a  bain-marie, 
add  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thick- 
en, and,  when  the  trout  has  been  laid  in  a  very  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  round  it ;  garnish  with  curled  lettuce. 

To  Cook  Salmon. — Salmon  should,  if  boiled,  be  boiled 
in  a  regular  fish-kettle  and  in  salted  water. 

Or,  it  may  be  cut  into  steaks,  and  broiled  on  a  buttered 
gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire. 

Or,  baked,  following  the  receipt  for  baked  shad,  or  for 
baked  salmon-trout. 

Crabbed  Bockjish. — Pick  cold  boiled  rockfish  into  small 
pieces;  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  gill  of  water;  add 
salt,  a  large  spoonful  of  white  pepper,  vinegar,  a  lump 
of  butter,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper ;  shake  over  the  fire 
until  very  hot. 

Barbecued  Fish. — Clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  wipe  it 
dry,  and  cut  it  across  as  if  for  frying ;  salt  it  inside  and 
outside,  and  lay  it  in  a  baking-dish  ;  strew  over  it  a  season- 
ing made  of  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  sweet-marjoram,  thyme, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  cloves ;  add  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water, and  lay  on  top  a  large  lump  of  butter; 
bake  it  well,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  teacupful  of 
port  wine. 

Stewed  Black  Fish  or  Sea  Bass. — Clean  and  scale  the 
fish  ;  fry  them  whole,  and  then  remove  to  a  stewpan  ;  next 
pour  some  water  into  the  frying-pan  in  which  you  have 
fried  the  fish,  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  mixed  in 
cold  water.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  throw  this  gravy 
over  the  fish  and  let  it  stew;  season  it  with  cloves,  mace, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  green  parsley,  chopped  fine ; 
about  twenty  minutes  before  serving  it  add  a  gill  of  cat- 
sup, a  little  stewed  tomato,  and  a  gill  of  port  wine. 


74  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Broiled  Shad. — Prepare  as  above,  and  broil  on  a  but- 
tered gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  rub  well  with  butter  when 
done,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Baked  Shad. — Prepare  as  above;  make  a  rich  bread 
stuffing,  mixing  it  with  egg,  beaten  light,  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  mace;  stuff  the  shad,  sew  it  up,  put  in  a  quick 
oven',  and  bake  it ;  serve  with  mushroom  sauce. 

Boiled  Shad. — When  cleaned  place  the  roe  inside  of  it, 
and  tie  the  fish  firmly  Vith  several  twists  of  cord;  roll  it 
in  a  cloth,  put  in  the  fish-kettle,  and  boil  twenty  minutes; 
serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Sheepshead — Is  best  boiled,  and  served  with  sauce  Hol- 
landaise.  Cold  boiled  sheepshead,  flaked  and  served  with 
a  mayonnaise  dressing,  is  excellent. 

Shad  Planked. — This  is  the  best  way  of  cooking  fresh 
shad.  It  must  be  beheaded,  well  scaled  and  cleaned,  cut 
entirely  open,  and  laid  with  the  outside  next  the  plank. 
The  plank  must  then  be  put  (propped  up)  in  front  of  the 
fire,  and  the  shad  broiled  until  thoroughly  cooked  through. 
Meanwhile  the  roe  must  be  fried  in  a  frying-pan.  When 
the  shad  is  removed  from  the  plank  rub  some  butter  over 
it,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  red  pepper ;  serve  on  a  hot 
dish  without  delay.  Heavy  slabs  of  oak,  with  cross  fasten- 
ings of  wire,  may  be  bought  in  all  the  large  cities,  for 
planking  shad. 

Potted  Shad. — Clean  the  fish  well,  reserving  the  roes  to 
pot  with  the  shad ;  remove  the  heads  and  tails  and  split 
the  fish  in  two;  cut  each  half  of  the  fish  crosswise  into 
three  pieces ;  rub  each  piece  with  salt  and  pepper ;  lay  the 
fish  in  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  jar;  scatter  over  it  on- 
ions and  a  few  cloves  and  allspice ;  then  add  another  lay- 
er of  fish  with  onions  and  spice,  as  before,  and  so  on  until 


FISH.  75 

the  jar  is  full ;  pour  strong  vinegar  on  the  fish  until  they 
are  covered ;  cover  the  mouth  of  each  jar  with  a  piece  of 
muslin  and  tie  it ;  then  spread  on  the  muslin  a  thick  dough 
made  of  flour  and  water,  pressing  it  in  at  the  edges  to 
keep  in  the  steam  ;  set  the  jar  in  the  oven  after  the  bread 
has  been  drawn,  and  let  it  remain  five  or  six  hours,  or  un- 
til the  oven  is  cold.  In  cities  this  is  best  done  at  a  bak- 
er's. The  jars  must  be  stone,  as  earthenware  would  be 
dangerous  to  use  with  vinegar.  When  cold  take  off  the 
dough  and  cloth,  and  cover  them  with  a  plate.  They  are 
fit  to  eat  as  soon  as  cold. 

Soused  Rovkfish  or  Salmon. — Use  the  water  in  which 
the  fish  was  boiled,  regulating  the  quantity  by  that  of  the 
fish  ;  put  the  water  on  the  fire  with  salt,  white  pepper,  all- 
spice, a  few  cloves,  and  a  blade  or  two  of  mace ;  let  it  boil 
until  the  flavor  of  the  spices  is  extracted  ;  when  done  add 
as  much  vinegar  as  there  is  liquor ;  let  the  spices  remain 
in  it;  cut  the  fish  into  pieces,  put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  and 
pour  the  liquor  over  hot.  This  is  a  good  way  of  treating 
fish.     Soused  fish  will  keep  some  days  in  cool  weather. 

Fricasseed  Haddock. — Remove  the  bones,  and  cut  the 
fish  into  small  pieces;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  the 
skin  side  upland  without  any  water;  sprinkle  ground  mace 
and  salt  and  pepper  on  each  layer;  cover  it,  and  cook  for 
twenty  minutes;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
rolled  in  flour,  and  one  cupful  of  sherry  wine ;  let  it  re- 
main fifteen  minutes  longer  on  the  fire. 

Haddock  and  Oysters. — Cut  the  fish  in  pieces,  and  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  mace,  pepper,  and  salt  on  each 
layer ;  cover  them  with  water,  and  stew  gently  for  fifteen 
minutes;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
thicken  with  flour ;  add  to  this  one  quart  of  oysters,  with- 
out the  liquor,  and,  as  soon  as  the  oysters  are  cooked,,  half 
a  cupful  of  sherry  wine,  and  serve. 


76  THE   UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Corned  Shad. — Clean  the  fish  and  prepare  it  for  cook- 
ing ;  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  and  set  it  away  in  a  cold 
place.  In  the  morning  broil  it,  serving  it  with  a  little  but- 
ter and  red  pepper.  The  roe  must  be  fried.  In  a  cool 
place  a  corned  shad  may  be  kept  for  two  or  three  days. 

Salt  shad  must  be  soaked  all  night  before  being  cooked. 

Pickled  Shad. — Clean  the  fish  and  split  them  in  two,  and 
wash  them  in  several  waters  until  quite  free  from  blood; 
rinse  them  in  strong  salt  and  water,  and  place  them  in  a 
stone  jar  in  layers,  adding  salt  and  saltpetre  to  each  layer; 
fill  the  jar  to  three  or  four  inches  from  the  top,  and  be 
sure  to  have  the  fish  quite  covered  with  brine,  putting  a 
weight  on  them  to  keep  them  under  it. 

Boiled  Shrimps  a  la  Creole. — Wash  the  shrimps  care- 
fully, and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water,  to  which  you  add 
several  pods  of  ripe  red  pepper ;  serve  for  breakfast ;  heap 
the  shrimps  in  the  dish  and  serve,  surrounded  by  crimped 
parsley.     This  is  a  famous  New  Orleans  dish. 

Shrimps  au  Gratin  a  la  Creole. — Boil  your  shrimps  in  salt 
and  water,  and  peel  them  ;  put  a  layer  of  butter,  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  and  pepper  in  a  deep  dish ;  then  a  layer  of 
shrimps ;  cover  with  powdered  bread  crumbs,  bake,  and 
serve. 

Pickled  Shrimps  a  la  Creole.  —  Boil  and  peel  your 
shrimps  and  put  them  in  a  bottle ;  pour  over  them  the 
best  vinegar  and  spices.  In  twenty-four  hours  they  are 
ready  for  use. 

Stephanie's  Pish  d  la  Creole. — Scale  and  clean  your  fish; 
draw  it  through  the  gills  ;  put  it  in  a  fish-boiler  ;  cover  it 
well  with  water ;  add  a  glassful  of  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper, 
clove,  laurel  leaf,  onions  and  carrots  sliced,  thyme,  and 
parsley  ;  let  it  boil  until  the  fish  is  done  ;  remove  the  fish- 


FISH.  77 

boiler  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  leave  your  fish  in  the 
eourtbouillon  till  you  are  ready  to  serve  it.  If  you  prefer 
you  can  substitute  wine  for  vinegar,  using  half  wine  and 
half  water.  Fish  au  eourtbouillon  should  be  served  very 
hot,  in  a  folded  napkin,  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  bunches 
of  parsley,  with  a  highly  seasoned  sauce. 

Shrimps  Stewed  in  Tomatoes. — Boil  your  shrimps  in  salt 
and  water;  peel  and  take  off  the  heads;  slice  some  onions 
in  a  saucepan,  with  a  little  lard;  add  sliced  tomatoes,  a 
little  flour  to  thicken  it;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper ;  put  your  shrimps  in  this  sauce ;  cook  a  few  mo- 
ments and  serve. 

Fried  Trout. — Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish  ;  roll  light- 
ly in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping ;  let  the 
fat  be  very  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  take 
up  the  instant  they  are  done ;  drain  for  a  moment  on  a 
folded  napkin,  then  arrange  in  a  very  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Fried  Pickerel. — Proceed  as  above. 

Fried  Smelts  or  other  Pan  Fish. — Clean,  wash,  and  dry 
the  fish ;  lay  in  a  large  dish,  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour ; 
have  ready  a  frying-pan  of  hot  dripping,  lard,  or  butter; 
put  in  as  many  fish  as  the  pan  will  hold  without  crowding, 
and  fry  to  a  light  brown  ;  drain,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnished  with  fried  parsley. 

Terrapins  to  Keep. — A  supply  of  terrapins  may  be  ob- 
tained in  the  autumn,  and  kept  all  winter,  in  £  barrel  or 
cask,  in  a  cellar  where  they  are  not  likely  to  freeze.  They 
need  not  be  fed,  although  they  will  be  fatter,  and  conse- 
quently better,  if  you  throw  the  kitchen  waste  into  the 
barrel.  As  they  become  torpid  in  winter,  examine  them 
carefully  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  they  are  alive.  Be- 
fore cooking  them,  put  them  into  very  strong  salt  and  wa- 
ter for  twentv-four  hours. 


78  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Maryland  Receipt  for  Cooking  Terrapins. — Plunge  the 
terrapins  alive  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  remain  un- 
til the  sides  and  lower  shell  begin  to  crack — this  will  take 
less  than  an  hour;  then  remove  them  and  let  them  get 
cold ;  take  off  the  shell  and  outer  skin,  being  careful  to 
save  all  the  blood  possible  in  opening  them.  If  there  are 
eggs  in  them  put  them  aside  in  a  dish ;  take  all  the  inside 
out,  and  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  gall,  which  must 
be  immediately  removed,  or  it  will  make  the  rest  bitter. 
It  lies  within  the  liver.  ,  Then  cut  up  the  liver  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  terrapin  into  small  pieces,  adding  the  blood  and 
juice  that  have  flowed  out  in  cutting  up;  add  half  a  pint 
of  water ;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  as  you  place 
them  in  the  stewpan ;  let  them  stew  slowly  ten  minutes, 
adding  salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  very  small 
blade  of  mace;  then  add  a  gill  of  the  best  brandy  and  half 
a  pint  of  the  best  sherry  wine;  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow 
lire  very  gently.  About  ten  minutes  or  so,  before  you 
are  ready  to  dish  them,  add  half  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 
and  half  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  with  flour,  to  prevent 
oiling;  two  or  three  minutes  before  taking  them  off  the 
fire,  peel  the  eggs  carefully  and  throw  them  in  whole.  If 
there  should  be  no  eggs  use  the  yolk  of  hen's  eggs,  hard 
boiled.     This  receipt  is  for  four  terrapins. 

Philadelphia  Receipt  for  Cooking  Terrapins.- — Plunge 
the  terrapins  alive  into  boiling  water;  when  dead  take  off 
the  outside  skin  from  the  shells,  and  the  nails  from  the 
claws;  wash  them  in  warm  water,  and  boil  them  until 
they  are  quite  tender  and  soft ;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  in 
the  water;  when  they  are  ready  to  be  taken  out  take  off 
the  shells  and  pick  them  carefully,  removing  the  sand-bag 
and  gall  without  breaking  them  ;  cut  the  meat  and  entrails 
into  small  pieces;  place  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
adding  the  juice  which  has  flowed  in  cutting  them,  but  no 
water;  season  them  with  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper. 
To  each  terrapin  allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 


FISH.  79 

mixed  well  with  a  handful  of  flour  for  thickening ;  after 
stewing  for  a  short  time  add  four  or  five  tablespoonf uls  of 
cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  Madeira  wine  to  four  ter- 
rapins. The  yolks  of  two  boiled  eggs  and  one  raw  one 
may  be  added  before  serving. 

Stewed  Terrapins^  Eastern  Shore. — Boil  your  terrapins 
until  the  shells  become  loose  ;  then  take  them  off,  careful- 
ly saving  the  liquor ;  scrape  the  black  skin  off  the  meat, 
remove  the  gall,  clean  and  chop  up  the  entrails  careful ly, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  meat  and  liquor,  pour  in 
enough  olive-oil  to  fry  them  well,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  (black  and  cayenne),  and  add  the  yolks  of  the  tur- 
tle eggs;  when  well  warmed  through,  and  just  before 
serving,  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  and 
serve  hot. 

Spanish  Sauce  for  Fried  Fish. — Pound  a  clove  of  gar- 
lic and  two  red-pepper  pods  which  you  have  softened  in 
hot  water ;  thin  it  with  a  little  water,  pour  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  some  hot  olive-oil,  vinegar,  and  salt ;  fry  your 
fish  in  this  sauce. 

A  Substitute  for  Terrapirfs  Eggs. — Beat  the  yolks  of 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  in  a  mortar,  and  make  them  into  a 
paste  with  one  raw  yolk ;  roll  into  balls,  and  throw  them 
into  boiling  water  to  harden.  These  are  excellent  if  the 
terrapin  eggs  are  deficient. 

A  Delaware  Receipt  for  Cooking  Terrapins. — One  doz- 
en of  medium-sized  terrapins;  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter;  one  tablespoonf nl  of  flour;  one  tablespoonful 
of  mustard  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  half  a  pint  of  good 
wine;  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  of 
the  best  brandy ;  one  saltspoonf ul  of  cayenne. 

Plunge  the  terrapins  alive  into  boiling  water;  at  the 
end  of  half  an  hour  begin  to  examine  them;  some  will 


80  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

take  half  an  hour,  some  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  to  boil  ten- 
der. While  hot  remove  the  skin,  nails,  head,  gall-blad- 
der, and  sand-bags ;  open  each  terrapin  carefully  over  a 
bowl  to  save  the  grav}T ;  chop  the  terrapins  fine,  and  put 
one  half  of  the  livers  with  the  meat  into  a  deep  bowl; 
cover  it  with  wine  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three  hours ;  rub 
the  other  half  of  the  livers,  the  six  eggs,  and  the  butter 
well  together  until  smooth ;  add  the  flour,  mustard,  and 
cayenne.  The  meat  steeped  in  wine  should  be  first  put 
into  the  stewpan,  the  dressing  added,  and  be  stirred  con- 
stantly. They  should  only  come  to  a  boil  to  scald  the 
flour,  and  be  served  at  once  very  hot ;  they  should  not  be 
left  for  a  moment.  The  quantities  required  of  mustard 
and  cayenne  entirely  depend  on  the  strength  of  the  ma- 
terial furnished,  and  the  cook  should  be  discreet  in  the 
use  of  them.  The  quantity  of  salt  varies  with  the  quan- 
tity of  meat  turned  out  from  the  terrapin. 

Those  who  prefer  the  smaller  ones  get  a  large  one  for 
the  eggs,  as  they  are  considered  a  delicacy ;  but  no  epicure 
would  ever  prefer  the  larger  meat.  The  larger  terrapins 
may  be  boned,  and  the  meat  very  carefully  stewed  up. 

There  is  a  red-legged  terrapin  in  the  market,  the  eggs 
of  which  are  very  delicate,  and  by  many  considered  supe- 
rior to  the  eggs  of  the  diamond  back. 

For  an  invalid,  terrapins  stewed  in  cream,  with  salt  and 
pepper,  are  very  nourishing. 

Fried  Fillets  of  Whitings  with  Truffles. — Cut  fillets  of 
whitings  the  same  size,  fry  them  in  butter,  sprinkle  with 
fine  salt,  drain  on  brown  paper,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over 
them,  slice  some  truffles  in  the  frying-pan,  add  a  little  but- 
ter, and  dress  them  in  alternate  slices  on  a  dish  garnished 
with  fried  croutons  of  bread. 

Broiled  Whitings. — Prepare  your  fish ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper;  steep  them  in  olive-oil;  when  you  are 
ready  to  serve  them  place  them  on  the  griddle ;  let  them 


FISH.  81 

cook  slowly,  turning  them ;  when  done  pom*  over  them 
either  a  white  sauce  with  capers  or  capucines,  or  a  tomato 
sauce;  garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  pickles 
cut  in  slices. 

Sole  a  la  Normandie. — Put  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  as 
large  as  an  egg  in  a  dish  you  can  place  on  the  fire ;  add 
slices  of  onions  cut  very  thin,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper; 
lay  your  fish  in  this ;  pour  over  half  a  bottle  of  the  best 
cider,  two  dozen  oysters,  one  dozen  muscles  well  trimmed, 
shrimps,  and  slices  of  truffles;  cook  on  a  gentle  fire,  bast- 
ing the  fish  from  time  to  time  with  the  sauce ;  when  it  is 
cooked  place  the  fish  on  a  dish,  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 

Fish  Cooked  with  Macaroni. — Throw  your  macaroni 
in  boiling  water;  when  it  swells  and  is  nearly  done  take 
it  out,  and  throw  it  in  cold  water  and  drain  well ;  cook 
your  fish  in  the  same  water,  take  it  off  the  fire,  scale  it, 
and  cut  it  in  slices;  remove  all  the  bones;  put  some  but- 
ter and  grated  cheese  in  a  deep  dish,  then  put  in  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  one  of  cheese  and  macaroni,  and  continue  till 
you  place  four  alternate  layers;  put  it  in  the  stove  till  it 
cooks;  brown  it  with  a  salamander. 

Fried  Whitings  (Greenwich  Receipt). — Scale,  wash,  and 
draw  your  fish,  leaving  in  the  livers;  cut  off  the  fins  and 
tails ;  make  oblique  incisions  on  both  sides  of  the  fish ; 
sprinkle  with  flour  and  throw  them  in  boiling  lard  ;  when 
they  are  a  good  color  take  them  out,  drain  them  on  brown 
paper,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  fine  salt,  and  serve  on  a 
napkin ;  garnish  your  dish  with  fried  parsley. 

Stewed  Rockfish.  —  Rub  the  fish  well  with  butter  to 
keep  the  skin  from  breaking ;  brown  three  or  four  onions 
in  slices  and  spread  them  on  the  bottom  of  the  fish-kettle ; 
place  the  fish  upon  the  onions,  with  pepper  and  salt ;  pour 
over  it  about  three  pints  of  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very 


82  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

slowly  ;  just  before  serving  add  a  wineglassful  of  wine, 
and  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup. 

Desirie\s  Courtboalllon  for  Fish. — Three  green  onions 
sliced  and  fried  with  three  cloves  of  garlic ;  half  a  bottle  of 
claret;  one  tablespoonful  of  the  finest  white  flour;  half  a 
bottle  of  beef  tea;  five  whole  tomatoes;  some  fresh  fish, 
cut  in  slices. 

When  the  onions  and  garlic  are  done  put  in  the  other 
ingredients,  the  fish  and  tomatoes  last  of  all;  season  it  to 
taste,  and  let  it  simmer  until  done. 

Salt  Fish  and  Potatoes. — One  pound  of  salt  fish ;  three 
and  a  half  pounds  of  potatoes,  peeled ;  one  and  a  half 
ounces  of  dripping;  one  onion,  chopped  fine;  one  bunch 
of  parsley ;  white  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  and  vinegar  to 
taste. 

Chop  it  fine,  and  put  it  in  the  saucepan  with  a  little 
fresh  water ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  as  slowly  as  possible ; 
boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and  put  a  layer  of  potatoes  in 
the  bottom  of  a  dish,  with  a  little  dripping;  put  in  the 
fish  and  a  layer  of  chopped  parsley  and  onion  ;  add  mus- 
tard, pepper,  and  vinegar,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes, 
then  another  of  fish,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  full;  cover  all 
with  potatoes  and  a  little  dripping;  bake  in  a  quiet  oven 
for  half  an  hour. 

Fish  au  Gratin. — Take  a  long,  flat  dish  which  you  can 
put  on  the  fire ;  put  a  layer  of  onions  cut  in  round  slices 
in  the  bottom,  and  another  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes ;  enough 
olive-oil  to  prevent  burning;  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  (red  is  preferable) ;  clean  and  scale  your  fish,  stuff 
it  with  a  stuffing  made  of  sausage-meat  (without  sage  or 
spices),  chopped  oysters,  chopped  mushrooms,  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt  well  mixed  togeth- 
er ;  lay  your  fish  in  the  baking-dish,  put  a  large  lump  of 
butter  on  it,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  ;  moisten  it  from  time 


FISH.  83 

to  time  with  the  sauce ;  when  nearly  done  pour  over  a 
generous  supply  of  white  wine,  and  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs ;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  bread  crumbs 
before  serving ;  garnish  your  dish  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  lemon  cut  in  quarters. 

Mackerel  or  Pompano  should  be  boiled  and  served  with 
maitre  d'hdtel  sauce,  which  is  made  by  mixing  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  and  pepper  with  butter,  and  adding  the  juice 
of  a  lemon. 

Oyster  Toast. — Beard  the  oysters ;  chop  them  up  with 
anchovies  (removing  the  bones);  pepper  and  a  little  salt, 
mix  with  butter ;  fry  them  five  minutes ;  spread  the  paste 
on  slices  of  toasted  bread  ;  pour  over  the  juice  which  is 
left ;  serve  hot,  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 

Boston  Codfish  Balls  ("Boston  Cook-book"). — One  cup 
of  raw  salt  fish;  one  pint  of  potatoes;  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter;  one  egg,  well  beaten;  one  quarter  of  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper  ;  salt,  if  needed. 

Wash  and  bone  the  fish,  and  pick  in  half-inch  pieces ; 
pare  the  potatoes,  and  cut  in  quarters ;  put  potatoes  and 
fish  in  the  stewpan,  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until 
the  potatoes  are  soft,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  them  boil 
long  enough  to  become  soggy ;  drain  off  all  the  water, 
mash  and  beat  the  fish  and  potatoes  until  very  light,  add 
the  butter  and  pepper,  and  when  slightly  cooled  add  the 
egg,  and  more  salt  if  necessary ;  shape  quickly  into  cakes, 
slip  off  into  a  basket,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard  one  min- 
ute ;  fry  only  five  at  a  time,  as  more  will  cool  the  fat ;  the 
lard  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a  piece  of  bread  while 
you  count  forty ;  drain  on  soft  paper.  These  balls  should 
be  mixed  while  the  potatoes  and  fish  are  hot.  If  you  wash 
to  prepare  them  the  night  before,  omit  the  egg,  and  in  the 
morning  warm  the  fish  and  potatoes  in  a  double  boiler, 
and  then  add  the  egg ;  keep  the  fish  in  a  bowl  of  cold  wa- 


84  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ter  while  picking  it  apart,  and  it  will  need  no  further 
soaking. 

Never  chop  salt  fish ;  pick  apart  into  small  pieces,  and 
rub  with  a  potato  masher  until  it  is  reduced  to  fine  threads. 

Boston  Fish  Hash  ("Boston  Cook-book"). — Prepare  as 
above,  cook  in  a  little  salt-pork  fat  in  a  frying-pan  until 
brown,  and  then  turn  out  like  an  omelet. 

Boston  Fish  Souffle. — Prepare  as  above,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  two  eggs,  cream  and  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  beaten  separately ;  bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 


MEATS. 

BEEF. 

BOASTING   MEATS    (SOYEB). 

As  an  invariable  rule,  all  dark  meats — sncli  as  beef  and 
mutton — should  be  put  down  before  a  sharp  fire  for  at 
least  fifteen  minutes,  until  the  outside  has  a  coating  of 
gravy;  then  remove  it  back,  and  cook  it  gently.  Lamb, 
veal,  and  pork  should  be  cooked  at  a  moderate  tire.  Yeal 
should  be  covered  with  paper.  Very  rich  meat,  if  covered 
with  paper,  does  not  require  basting.  Roast  meats  should 
be  dredged  with  flour  just  at  the  time  the  gravy  begins 
to  appear. 

TIME-TABLE   FOB   BOASTING. 

Ten  pounds  of  beef  require  from  two  hours  to  two  and 
a  half  roasting  before  a  good  fire,  but  at  eighteen  inches 
distant.  Six  pounds  one  hour  and  a  quarter  to  one  hour 
and  a  half,  fourteen  inches  from  a  good  fire. 

Three  ribs  of  beef,  boned  and  rolled,  well  tied  round 
with  paper,  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half,  eighteen  inch- 
es from  a  good  fire,  and  only  baste  once. 

If  beef  is  very  fat  it  does  not  require  basting ;  if  very 
lean,  tie  it  up  in  greasy  paper  and  baste  well. 

Eight  pounds  of  veal  will  take  from  one  hour  and  a  half 
to  two  hours,  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire ;  if  stuffed,  at 
least  two  hours. 

Chump,  or  loin  and  kidneys,  of  four  pounds,  will  take 
one  hour  and  a  quarter;  baste  well. 

Six  pounds  of  breast  one  hour,  twelve  inches  from  the 
fire. 

Six  pounds  of  shoulder  and  neck  the  same. 


86  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Calf's  heart,  stuffed  and  tied  up  in  paper,  three  quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Mutton  leg,  eight  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  half,  eighteen 
inches  from  the  lire. 

Saddle  of  mutton,  ten  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  quarter 
to  one  hour  and  a  half,  eighteen  inches  from  the  lire,  meas- 
uring from  the  flat  surface. 

Shoulder,  one  hour  and  a  half.  Loin,  one  hour  and  a 
half.     Breast,  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Lamb,  according  to  size,  in  the  same  proportion  as  mut- 
ton ;  but  it  ought  always  to  be  well  done,  and  should 
roast  at  about  fifteen  inches  from  the  fire. 

Pork  should  be  well  done  always.  It  is  best  to  rub  it 
well  with  salt  the  night  previous,  and  scrape  it  off  before 
roasting. 

In  roasting  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  pork,  and  poultry,  a 
dripping-pan  should  be  placed  under  the  meat,  with  a  lit- 
tle clear  dripping  or  fat,  which  should  be  very  hot  when 
the  meat  is  basted.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving 
add  half  a  pint  of  water  to  the  fat  in  the  dripping-pan ; 
dredge  the  meat  with  flour  and  salt.  When  the  meat  is 
cooked,  strain  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  through  a 
gauze  strainer,  remove  the  fat,  add  a  little  coloring,  and 
serve. 

Veal  and  poultry  should  have  half  the  water  put  into 
the  pan,  and  that,  when  strained,  added  to  half  a  pint  of 
thick,  melted  butter;  color  as  above  directed. 


Roast  Beef  on  the  Spit. — The  best  pieces  for  roasting 
are  the  sirloin  and  rib  pieces.  It  is  best  to  make  the 
butcher  remove  as  much  bone  as  possible.  Skewer  the 
meat  into  shape  and  pass  it  on  the  spit;  place  a  dripping- 
pan  underneath,  and  baste  the  beef  at  first  with  butter, 
afterwards  with  its  own  drippings.  The  fire  should  be 
clear,  steady,  and  not  too  fierce;  allow  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  a  pound  if  you  like  th&beef  rare ;  serve  on  a  heat- 
ed dish,  pouring  over  it  the  liquor  in  the  dripping-pan, 


MEATS— BEEF.  87 

and  garnish  with  a  wreath  of  water-cresses  or  fresh  pars- 
ley. Roast  beef  should  always  be  accompanied  by  mus- 
tard and  scraped  horseradish.  There  are  three  different 
ways  of  preparing  this.  It  may  be  served  dry,  or  steeped 
in  vinegar,  or  steeped  in  cream.  The  latter  is  most  in  use 
in  Italy,  and  is  very  good. 

Baked  Beef  (ox  beef  roasted  in  the  oven). — Put  the  beef 
to  roast  in  a  deep  pan,  and  before  putting  it  down  dash  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  over  it  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the 
juices.  If  very  fat,  cover  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water 
until  nearly  done;  baste  frequently — at  first  with  salt  and 
water,  afterwards  with  its  own  drippings ;  when  almost 
done  dredge  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and  baste  once 
with  butter;  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound  for 
rare  beef,  more  if  you  like  the  beef  well  done ;  serve  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  garnish  as  above. 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  No.  1. — One  pint  of  milk ;  four 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  ;  two  cups  of  flour ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

This  pudding  should  be  mixed  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
before  the  beef  is  done,  and  poured  into  the  dripping-pan, 
which  should  contain  just  fat  enough  to  prevent  the  pud- 
ding from  sticking;  it  should  cook  under  the  meat;  when 
both  are  cooked  the  pudding  should  be  cut  into  squares, 
and  placed  in  the  same  dish  with  the  beef. 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  No.  2. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of 
Hecker's  farina ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately. 

Mix  and  pour  into  the  dripping-pan  as  above.  This  is 
much  better  than  the  ordinary  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  No.  3. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of 
Hecker's  farina ;  one  pint  of  milk. 

Boil  and  allow  to  cool ;  when  cold  and  hard  put  into  a 


88  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

dish  under  the  beef;  do  this  just  long  enough  to  allow  it 
to  get  thoroughly  browned  and  heated  through.  This  is 
the  simplest  and  best  of  all. 

Stewed  Beefsteak. — Fry  a  tender  steak  lightly,  with  on- 
ions, turnips,  and  carrots ;  then  stew  slowly,  as  for  rump 
of  beef. 

Stewed  Bump  of  Beef — Wash  it  well,  and  season  high 
with  salt,  allspice,  black  and  cayenne  pepper,  three  cloves, 
and  a  blade  of  mace,  all  in  fine  powder ;  bind  tightly,  and  lay 
in  a  pot  that  will  just  hold  it,  with  three  large  onions  sliced 
and  fried,  three  carrots,  two  turnips,  a  shallot,  four  cloves, 
a  blade  of  mace,  and  some  celery ;  add,  also,  a  handful  of 
sweet  herbs,  regulating  the  quantity  of  each  according  to 
their  pungency.  The  herbs  used  should  be  parsley,  thyme, 
basil,  knotted  marjoram,  and  chives.  Cover  the  beef  with 
good  beef  broth,  putting  in  some  bones  if  you  have  them  ; 
simmer  as  slowly  and  gently  as  possible  for  several  hours, 
until  quite  tender ;  clear  off  the  fat,  add  to  the  gravy  half 
a  pint  of  port  wine,  a  glass  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup,  a  pinch  of  burned  sugar ;  now  simmer 
for  half  an  hour  longer,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish  ;  garnish 
with  tiny  heaps  of  different  vegetables,  herbs,  mushrooms, 
beet  root,  pickles,  etc. ;  all  cut  small  and  arranged  in  a 
tasteful  manner;  pour  the  gravy  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

Beef  Collops. — Take  some  beef  that  is  tender  and  free 
from  skin,  cut  into  small,  thin  pieces,  and  hack  it  with  a 
knife ;  then  butter  a  stewpan,  and  put  in  as  much  beef 
as  will  cover  the  pan,  with  a  soupgon  of  onion,  some  cu- 
cumber cut  small,  and  salt  and  pepper;  put  it  over  the 
fire  and  toss  constantly ;  two  or  three  minutes  will  do 
them  ;  add  a  little  browned  flour,  butter,  and  water  to  the 
gravy. 

Beef  Bobart. — Take  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef;  cut 


MEATS— BEEF.  89 

it  very  thin,  and  fry  a  moment  in  butter;  stew  with  good 
stock,  chopped  shallot,  anchovy  essence,  mushrooms,  and 
oysters ;  thicken  the  gravy  as  above. 

Old  Humphrey's  a  la  mode  Beef  (in  use  for  nearly  two 
centuries  in  the  same  family). — A  fine  round  of  beef, 
weighing  ten  or  fifteen  pounds;  prepare  the  day  before 
cooking  as  follows :  Make  a  rich  stuffing  of  rolled  bread 
crumbs,  salt  pork  chopped  line,  two  large  onions  peeled 
and  chopped,  some  ground  cloves,  half  a  dessertspoonful 
of  allspice,  some  salt  and  pepper,  some  sweet  marjoram 
and  other  herbs,  chopped  fine ;  mix  all  thoroughly  with 
the  hand  ;  then  make  perpendicular  incisions  with  a  sharp 
knife  through  the  meat.  These  incisions  should  be  an  inch 
wide,  and  should  be  filled  with  the  stuffing  and  strips  of 
lean  pork  half  an  inch  square.  Then  tie  round  the  edges 
of  the  beef  with  a  strong  cord;  tie  as  tightly  as  possible 
so  as  to  leave  the  beef  a  perfect  round ;  cover  the  top 
of  the  round  with  the  stuffing,  which  should  lie  an  inch 
thick  on  the  top ;  cover  the  beef  with  a  large  porcelain 
dish  cover,  and  leave  it  thus  all  night.  In  the  morning 
put  the  beef  into  a  baking-kettle,  or,  if  you  have  not  a 
baking-kettle,  into  a  large  pot  with  legs,  and  put  it  on  the 
stove  or  range ;  after  }rou  have  laid  four  pieces  of  hard 
wood  like  this  ^  to  keep  the  meat  from  burning,  add 
one  pint  —  not  more  —  of  water,  and  then  put  on  your 
meat;  cook  it  over  a  slow  fire,  adding  more  water  as  it 
becomes  absorbed.  The  beef  should  cook  six  or  eight 
hours  at  least  (ten  or  twelve  hours  is  not  too  much  for 
a  piece  of  beef  weighing  over  fifteen  pounds).  After 
the  beef  has  cooked  three  hours,  put  in  three  large  pota- 
toes sliced,  and  as  many  turnips  and  carrots,  also  sliced ; 
two  hours  before  serving  throw  in  a  tumblerful  of  cur- 
rant jelly,  which,  added  to  the  gravy  already  in  the  pot, 
will  make  a  delicious  gravy;  when  the  beef  is  cooked,  re- 
move it  to  a  hot  dish,  take  off  the  cord,  and  arrange  the 
vegetables  round  it;  strain  the  liquor  left  in  the  pot,  add 


90  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

some  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  and  round 
the  d  la  mode;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  water- 
cress.    This  beef  is  also  delicious  cold. 

Spiced  Beef. — Twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds  of  round  of 
beef;  half  a  pound  of  coarse  brown  sugar;  two  ounces  of 
saltpetre;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  common  salt ;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  black  pepper;  three  ounces  of  all- 
spice ;  four  ounces  of  bruised  juniper  berries. 

Rub  the  beef  well,  in  every  part,  with  the  coarse  brown 
sugar  and  let  it  remain  two  days;  then  reduce  to  powder 
all  the  other  ingredients,  and  blend  .them  thoroughly  and 
smoothly  together;  when  this  is  done  rub  the  ingredients 
strongly  and  equally  over  the  meat,  turning  it  at  the  same 
time  so  as  not  to  permit  even  the  tenth  part  of  an  inch  to 
miss  the  rubbing.  Repeat  this  daily  for  three  weeks,  al- 
ways turning,  of  course ;  then  wash  off  the  spice,  and  put 
the  beef  into  an  earthen  pan  as  nearly  of  its  size  as  possi- 
ble ;  pour  into  the  pan  a  cupful  of  good  strong  stock  ;  cov- 
er the  beef  thickly  with  chopped  beef  suet,  and  lay  a  coarse, 
thick  crust  over  the  pan ;  then  put  on  the  cover  and  bake 
the  meat  from  five  to  six  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  which 
should  not,  however,  be  sufficiently  fierce  to  harden  the 
meat.  If  properly  managed  spiced  beef  is  exceedingly 
tender ;  it  should  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the  pan  in  which 
it  was  baked ;  when  quite  cold,  remove  it  from  the  pan 
and  scrape  off  the  suet ;  garnish  it  with  crimped  parsley 
and  water-cresses.     It  is  to  be  served  cold. 

Hunters  Beef,  Gloucestershire. — Twenty-five  pounds  of 
a  fine,  fat  round  of  beef;  take  out  the  bone  and  rub  the 
beef  daily  for  two  weeks  with  the  following  mixture: 
Three  ounces  of  saltpetre ;  one  ounce  of  ground  cloves; 
half  an  ounce  of  allspice  ;  one  large  nutmeg,  grated  ;  one 
quart  of  salt ;  two  ounces  of  brown  sugar. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  smoothly  to- 
gether and  pound  them  to  a  fine  powder;  place  a  layer  of 


MEATS— BEEF.  91 

this  powder  in  the  bottom  of  the  tub  in  which  you  put 
the  beef,  and  after  the  beef  has  been  well  rubbed  cover  it 
with  the  powder.  Be  careful  to  turn  the  beef  daily  when 
you  rub  it,  and  to  rub  it  hard  and  evenly.  At  the  end  of 
two  weeks  wash  the  beef  carefully  in  vinegar ;  fill  the 
place  from  which  the  bone  has  been  taken  with  fat;  stick 
some  cloves  in  the  fat ;  bind  the  beef  with  tape  to  keep  it 
in  a  compact,  round  shape,  and  lay  it  in  a  pan  which  fits  it 
exactly  ;  cover  it  with  a  thick  layer  of  beef  suet,  and  pour 
over  it  a  pint  of  fresh  water,  in  which  you  have  mixed  a 
wineglassful  of  port  wine ;  cover  the  pan  with  a  thick  pa- 
per, buttered,  and  again  with  a  closely  fitting  cover;  bake 
five  hours  over  a  clear,  steady,  but  not  too  fierce,  fire ;  al- 
low the  beef  to  cool  in  the  pan  ;  when  quite  cold  uncover 
the  pan,  take  out  the  beef,  unbind  it,  and  scrape  off  the 
suet;  serve  cold. 

Corned  Beef.— Rub  the  beef  well  with  salt,  mixed  with 
one  tenth  part  of  saltpetre,  until  the  salt  lies  dry  upon  the 
surface ;  put  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  twenty-four  hours 
and  repeat  the  process,  rubbing  in  the  mixture  very  thor- 
oughly ;  put  away  until  the  next  day,  when  the  pickle 
should  be  ready:  Five  gallons  of  water;  one  gallon  of 
salt;  four  ounces  of  saltpetre;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
brown  sugar. 

Boil  this  pickle  ten  minutes;  when  peifectly  cold,  pour 
over  the  beef,  having  previous^  wiped  the  latter  dry ; 
examine  the  pickle  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  it  keeps 
well ;  if  not,  take  the  meat  out  at  once,  wipe  it,  and 
cover  with  salt  until  you  can  prepare  new  and  stronger 
brine. 

Russian  Beef  Balls. — For  these  balls  equal  quantities 
of  the  best  rump  steak  and  fillet  are  required.  The  meat 
must  be  entirely  freed  from  skin  and  fat,  and  chopped 
so  finely  that  it  can  be  passed  through  a  sieve ;  all  the 
blood  must  be  preserved   and   mixed  with   the  minced 


92  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

meat,  which  must  be  very  slightly  salted.  Meanwhile  cut 
another  fillet  into  thick  strips,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
into  a  saucepan;  form  the  mince  into  balls,  binding  it, 
if  necessary,  with  beaten  egg,  but  leaving  a  hollow  in 
the  centre  of  each  ball ;  the  saucepan  with  the  beef  juice 
must  then  be  put  for  a  moment  or  two  on  the  fire,  un- 
til the  juice  thickens,  when  the  saucepan  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  fire,  and  the  juice  poured  into  the  balls, 
i,  e.,  in  the  hollow  in  the  middle ;  then  close  and  re- 
form the  balls,  dip  them  in  beaten  white  of  egg,  and 
in  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  them  rapidly  in  beef  lard  (the 
whole  process  must  be  brief)  until  they  are  of  a  deli- 
cate brown  color ;  then  drain  in  a  wire  basket,  and  serve 
in  a  very  hot  dish.  If  properly  made  and  cooked  they 
are  rare  inside,  and  have  the  flavor  of  the  best  roast 
beef.  Plain  boiled  potatoes,  light  and  floury,  should  be 
served  with  them. 

Stewed  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Raisins. — Take  four  pounds 
of  fillet,  wipe  clean,  and  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  casse- 
role with  two  ounces  of  good  butter,  and  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  finely  chopped  celery,  carrots,  onions,  and  ham  to 
form  a  layer  over  and  under  the  beef.  This  mince  should 
previously  have  been  fried  in  butter  to  a  light  brown. 
Cover  the  casserole  closely,  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  remove  from  the  fire  for 
a  moment,  and  strain  the  mince;  return  the  fillet  and 
strained  sauce  to  the  casserole,  adding  a  teacupful  of 
strong  beef  tea,  or  stock,  and  a  double  handful  of  the  best 
Sultana  raisins,  seeded ;  cover  the  casserole  closely,  and 
stew  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  over  the  fillet  the  sauce  and  raisins  with  which  it 
has  been  cooked.  This  quantity  of  fillet  is  enough  for  six 
people. 

Stewed  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms.  —  Take  six 
pounds  of  fillet  of  beef,  wipe  clean,  and  put  into  a  porce- 


MEATS— BEEF.  93 

Iain-lined  saucepan  with  a  mince  prepared  in  the  follow- 
ing manner:  Take  equal  quantities  of  dried  mushrooms, 
fresh  shallots,  celery,  and  uncooked  ham ;  chop  very  fine, 
and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  butter;  put  a  thick  layer  of 
this  mince  under  and  over  the  fillet,  add  two  and  a  half 
ounces  of  butter,  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour; 
then  strain  the  mince,  return  the  fillet  and  sauce  to  the 
fire,  adding  a  large  teacupful  of  strong  beef  tea  or  stock, 
a  wineglassful  of  sherry,  and  a  double  handful  of  button 
mushrooms,  properly  washed,  wiped,  and  scraped ;  cover 
the  casserole  closely,  and  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter 
longer ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce 
and  mushrooms  with  which  it  has  been  cooked. 

Beefsteak  Broiled. — Cut  the  steak  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  thick,  wipe  carefully  with  a  clean  cloth,  lay  on  the 
meat  board,  and  pound  with  a  steak  mallet ;  wipe  again 
carefully,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire, 
turning  it  very  often  when  it  begins  to  drip,  and  with- 
drawing the  gridiron  from  the  fire  a  moment  should  the 
fat  drop  on  the  coals  and  blaze.  The  steak  ought  to  cook 
in  twelve  minutes  if  the  fire  be  good ;  then  lay  on  a  very 
hot  dish  which  has  previously  been  rubbed  with  garlic, 
salt,  and  pepper  on  both  sides,  and  lay  a  liberal  lump 
of  butter  on  the  upper;  then  cover,  and  let  it  stand  five 
minutes  in  a  hot  place  to  draw  out  the  juices ;  dust  lightly 
with  roasted  powdered  parsley  before  sending  it  to  table. 

If  the  proper  sort  of  gridiron  be  not  attainable,  rub 
lightly  a  clean,  hot  frying-pan  with  a  rag  dipped  in  butter, 
put  in  the  meat,  set  over  a  clear,  fierce  fire,  aud  turn  fre- 
quently. The  best  pieces  for  steak  are  the  porter-house, 
sirloin,  and  rump.  In  some  respects  the  rump  steaks  are 
the  best  of  all. 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. — Prepare  the  steak  as  above  di- 
rected ;  while  broiling,  put  three  or  four  chopped  onions 
in  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  beef  dripping  or  butter ; 


94  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

stir  them  quickly  until  they  are  delicately  browned ;  when 
the  steak  is  dished  cover  it  with  the  onions,  then  cover 
the  dish  and  let  it  stand  eight  minutes. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long, 
and  stew,  with  the  bone,  in  enough  water  to  cover  it  until 
the  meat  is  half  done  ;  in  another  pot  parboil  twelve  good 
potatoes.  Take  a  deep  pudding  dish,  and  put  in  a  layer 
of  the  beef  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  onion, 
then  one  of  sliced  potatoes,  with  little  bits  of  butter  dot- 
ted over  them ;  proceed  in  this  manner  until  the  dish  is 
full ;  pour  over  all  the  gravy  in  which  the  meat  has  stewed, 
having  first  thrown  away  the  bone  and  thickened  with 
browned  flour ;  cover  with  a  thick  crust,  leaving  a  slit  in 
the  middle ;  brush  with  beaten  white  of  egg  and  bake. 

Crust  for  Meat  Pies. — One  quart  of  fine  white  flour, 
sifted ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  lard ;  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  wet  with  hot  water,  and 
stirred  into  the  milk  ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
sifted  into  the  dry  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Work  up  very  lightly  and  quickly,  and  do  not  let  it  get 
too  stiff. 

Beef  Pie,  Potato  Crust. — -Mince  some  cold  roast  or 
corned  beef,  season,  and  spread  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 
deep  pudding  dish ;  then  a  layer  of  mashed  potato  stuck 
over  with  bits  of  butter,  then  meat  again,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full ;  pour  over  all  a  gravy  made  of  dripping, 
milk,  butter,  and  a  little  tomato  catsup,  and  cover  all  with 
a  thick  crust  made  as  follows :  One  large  cupful  of  mashed 
potato ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter ;  a  well-beaten 
egg ;  two  cups  of  milk. 

Beat  all  together  until  very  light,  and  add  enough  flour 
to  enable  you  to  roll  it  out ;  cover  the  pudding  dish  with 
this  crust,  cutting  a  slit  in  the  middle;  brush  over  with 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  bake. 


MEATS— BEEF.  95 

Beef  Hash. — Two  parts  of  cold  roast  beef,  freed  from 
fat  and  chopped  fine ;  one  part  of  cold  potatoes,  chopped 
fine ;  a  little  pepper,  salt,  milk,  and  melted  butter. 

Turn  into  a  frying-pan  and  stir  until  it  is  heated  through, 
but  not  brown ;  put  into  a  deep  dish  and  form  into  a  hil- 
lock, 

Or,  cease  stirring  for  a  few  minutes,  and  let  a  brown 
crust  form ;  then  serve  in  a  round  dish,  with  the  crust  up- 
permost. 

The  hash  may  also  be  served  on  small  squares  of  toast. 

Corned  Beef  Hash  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  way, 
never  allowing,  however,  a  crust  to  form ;  serve  with 
poached  eggs  on  top. 

Rolled  Beef. — Take  some  lean,  raw  beef,  free  from  fat 
and  skin,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  until  you  can  pass  it 
through  a  sieve;  mix  with  it  half  the  quantity  of  stale 
bread  crumb  moistened  with  water  to  a  paste,  also  some 
fat  pork  cut  into  small  dice ;  season  with  a  chopped  shal- 
lot, a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  the  tiniest  pinch  of  sugar, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  bind  with  beaten  egg  and 
roll  in  bread  crumbs;  then  envelop  it  in  cabbage  leaves, 
bind  it  with  string  into  a  firm  roll,  and  bake.  It  should 
be  eaten  cold. 

Irish  Stew. — Put  some  slices  of  lean  beef  in  a  stewpan, 
with  a  good  deal  of  water,  or,  better  still,  thin  stock,  two 
large  onions  thinly  sliced,  a  stick  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
some  cold  boiled  potatoes  (whole),  and  a.  little  salt  and 
pepper ;  stew  gently  until  the  potatoes  are  quite  soft  and 
have  taken  up  nearly  all  the  gravy; 

-  Tomato  and  Beef  Stew. — Put  some  large  trophy  toma- 
toes— peeled,  cored,  and  sliced  thinly — into  a  stewpan  with 
some  raw  beef,  prepared  in  the  following  manner :  Take 
some  lean  beef — rump  steak  is  best — free  from  skin  and 


96  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

fat,  and  pound  it  so  finely  that  it  can  be  passed  through  a 
sieve ;  spread  each  slice  of  tomato  nearly  an  inch  thick 
with  this,  salting  it  very  slightly ;  then  put  another  layer 
of  tomatoes  and  beef,  and  so  on  until  the  stewpan  is  near- 
ly full ;  pour  in  all  the  blood  from  the  steak,  and  enough 
stock  to  moisten  all ;  sprinkle  the  top  layer  with  browned 
bread  crumbs,  also  moistened  slightly  with  stock;  stick 
bits  of  fresh  butter  over  this  layer,  and,  covering  the  stew- 
pan,  let  all  stew  together  slowly  until  it  becomes  very  soft ; 
then  stir  thoroughly,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
and  serve  in  a  very  hot  dish,  rubbed  with  garlic. 

Breakfast  Stew  of  Beef  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold").— Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef — not  too  lean — into 
pieces  an  inch  long;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  two 
hours ;  set  away  until  next  morning,  when  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  sweet  marjoram  or  summer  savory,  chopped 
onion,  and  parsley ;  stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  sauce  or  catsup,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  moistened  with  cold  water;  Anally,  half  a  glass 
of  wine ;  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  a  covered  deep  dish. 

Beef's  Heart. — Wash  the  heart  well,  and  cut  into  squares 
half  an  inch  long;  stew  them  for  ten  minutes  in  enough 
water  to  cover  them  ;  salt  the  water  slightly,  and  skim  the 
scum  as  it  rises;  take  out  the  meat,  strain  the  liquor,  and 
return  the  chopped  heart  to  it,  with  a  sliced  onion,  a  large 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  some  parsley,  a  head  of  celery 
chopped  fine,  and  cayenne  pepper,  with  a  large  lump  of 
butter;  stew  until  the  meat  is  very  tender,  thicken  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

Dried  Smoked  Beef  and  Eggs.— Shave  the  beef  into 
thin  strips,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  them;  set  them  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
then  drain  off  the  water  and  cut  the  beef  into  very  small 


MEATS— BEEF.  97 

pieces ;  have  ready  some  well-beaten  eggs,  allowing  four 
to  half  a  pound  of  beef ;  stir  them  into  a  pan  with  the 
minced  meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture  about  for  two 
minutes ;  send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish. 

Grated  Beef  . — Cut  a  thick  lump  of  smoked  beef  and 
dry  it  in  the  oven  until  perfectly  hard  ;  then  grate  to  fine 
powder,  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  bread-and-butter,  or 
with  hot  buttered  wafers. 

Beef  Tongue. — Wash  thoroughly,  and  soak  over-night 
in  cold  water.  The  next  morning  put  it  into  a  pot  with 
plenty  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  until — on  testing  it 
with  a  fork — you  find  it  tender  throughout ;  when  cold 
pare  off  the  thick  skin,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  cut  in 
slices. 

Or,  you  can  serve  it  hot  with  a  dolce  forte  sauce. 

Tongue  is  very  good  in  the  latter  way. 

Persellade  of  Bouilli. — Put  some  drippings  of  roast 
meat,  or  some  butter,  in  a  silver  or  earthen  dish  that  you 
can  put  on  the  fire;  chop  some  mushrooms  and  parsley 
very  fine  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  your  dish  ;  cov- 
er this  with  a  layer  of  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  lay  in  your 
slices  of  bouilli ;  repeat  this  till  you  use  all  the  bouilli ; 
moisten  it  well  with  bouillon,  and  from  time  to  time  add 
more  bouillon  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  let  it  simmer 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  skim  off  the  grease,  and  serve 
with  a  garnish  of  small  potatoes  fried  in  butter. 

Bouilli  en  Quenelles. — Chop  your  bouilli  very  fine,  witli 
some  roasted  Irish  potatoes;  add  some  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper;  bind  it  with  some  beaten  eggs;  knead  it  all  well 
together,  make  it  into  little  balls  which  you  fry  in  butter, 
and  serve  with  a  sauce  joiquante. 

Poor-Man '«§  Stew. — Slice  your  soup  meat  and  put  it  on 

5 


98  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

a  platter;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  chopped  parsley, 
and  chives,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed  fine ;  add  a  little 
lard,  a  glass  of  stock,  and  a  few  bread  crumbs;  let  it  sim- 
mer on  the  hot  ashes  till  done,  and  serve. 

Rib  Piece  with  Mushrooms. — -Take  out  the  bones,  trim 
away  any  superfluous  fat  and  tendons ;  put  your  entrecote 
(rib  piece)  in  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as 
an  egg ;  let  it  cook  on  both  sides,  and  take  it  out ;  put  in  the 
same  saucepan  a  spoonful  of  flour ;  let  it  brown  ;  moisten 
with  warm  water ;  add  a  glassful  of  brandy,  salt  and  pepper ; 
put  your  entrecote  back  in  the  saucepan  ;  cook  it  three  or 
four  hours,  add  some  mushrooms,  and  finish  cooking;  five 
minutes  before  serving  add  some  olives  which  you  have 
stoned. 

Fricasseed  Tripe. — Cut  it  into  little  squares ;  put  some 
butter  in  a  saucepan  with  a  spoonful  of  flour;  add  a 
glassful  of  bouillon ;  cook  your  tripe  in  this  ten  minutes ; 
stir  in  (taking  the  saucepan  off  the  fire)  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  little  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Fried  Tripe. — Cut  the  tripe  in  strips  two  inches  long; 
dip  them  in  melted  butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  into  pounded  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  a  golden  brown, 
and  arrange  them  in  a  crown  on  a  dish  with  sauce  Tartar, 
or  sauce  Robert. 

Bouilli. — This  is  soup  meat.  You  take  it  out  of  your 
soup-pot  and  serve  as  an  entree.  You  can  serve  it  with 
any  sauce.  Tomato  is  excellent,  or  sauce  piquante  made 
of  chopped  pickles,  mustard,  and  oil. 

Beef  Tongue  (Guillaume's.  receipt).  —  Scald  a  beefs 
tongue  and  take  off  the  outer  skin  ;  boil  the  tongue  in  salt- 
ed water  till  done ;  drain  well,  and  when  thoroughly  cold 


MEATS— BEEF.  99 

cut  it  in  slices,  dress  it  on  a  dish,  and  cover  with  a  mayon- 
naise sauce.  This,  when  well  dressed,  cannot  be  distin- 
guished from  fish. 

Beef  Tongue,  Sauce  Piquante. — Scald  a  beef's  tongue, 
and  take  off  the  outer  skin ;  boil  the  tongue  in  salted  wa- 
ter; split  it  lengthwise,  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  piquante. 

Tongue  Smothered  in  Mushrooms. — Blanch  your  tongue 
in  boiling  water,  skin  it,  and  trim  it ;  lard  it  with  strips  of 
bacon  ;  put  in  a  saucepan  slices  of  salted  fat  pork  with  the 
skin  on  it,  pepper,  parsley,  thyme,  a  laurel  leaf,  a  clove,  on- 
ions, and  carrots ;  place  your  tongue  on  this,  add  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  or  half  a  glassful  of  brandy,  and  cover  your 
tongue  well  with  bouillon  ;  cook  slowly  three  hours ;  cov- 
er your  saucepan  with  a  buttered  paper  and  keep  the  sauce- 
pan lid  on  all  the  time,  to  prevent  evaporation  ;  take  your 
tongue  out  of  the  saucepan,  put  it  on  a  dish,  and  slice  it 
lengthwise,  without  cutting  the  slices  apart ;  skim  your 
sauce,  thicken  it  with  a  little  roux,  and  add  chopped  escha- 
lottes,  mushrooms,  chopped  pickles,  pepper,  and  a  little 
bouillon ;  boil  five  minutes,  and  serve  poured  over  the 
tongue.  A  tomato  sauce  may  also  be  served  with  the 
tongue  if  preferred. 

Slices  of  cold  tongue  dipped  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and 
fried  can  also  be  served  with  a  mushroom  or  tomato  sauce. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Take  a  round  of  beef,  lard  it  well, 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  some  slices  of  bacon  skin,  half  a 
calf's  foot,  an  onion,  a  carrot,  a  soup  bunch,  laurel  leaf, 
thyme,  garlic,  cloves,  salt,  and  pepper ;  pour  over  a  pint  of 
water,  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  or  a  spoonful  of  bran- 
dy, and  cook  until  the  meat  becomes  tender ;  dress  your 
beef  on  a  dish ;.  skim  the  gravy,  adding  bouillon  if  neces- 
sary, let  it  boil  up,  strain  it,  and  pour  over  the  beef.  It 
requires  six  hours  to  cook  over  a  slow  fire,  and  the  sauce- 
pan should  be  kept  closely  covered. 


100  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Tenderloin  a  la  Broche. — Trim  and  lard  jour  fillet; 
steep  it  twelve  hours  in  a  marinade  of  olive-oil,  pepper, 
salt,  parsley,  laurel  leaf,  and  slices  of  onion  ;  put  it  on  the 
spit,  the  larded  side  covered  with  buttered  paper ;  let  it 
cook  before  a  quick  fire ;  remove  the  paper  a  few  moments 
before  serving;  take  it  off  the  spit  quite  rare;  serve  it 
with  a  sauce  made  of  the  drippings,  a  dash  of  lemon, 
chopped  eschalottes,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Tenderloin  Steaks,  Sautis  aux  Champignons. — Cut  your 
steaks  all  the  same  size  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  broil 
them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  quick  fire,  turning  them  that 
they  may  be  a  good  color  on  both  sides ;  when  done  place 
them  on  a  dish  and  keep  wTarm ;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan ;  add  your  mushrooms  cut  very  thin,  a  little 
stock  (a  tablespoon fnl) ;  season  to  taste  ;  add  a  glassful  of 
white  wine;  let  it  Ipoil  up  once,  skim,  and  serve  poured 
over  the  steaks. 

Turnovers. — Take  slices  of  cold  tenderloin ;  heat  them 
in  hot  gravy  or  bouillon  ;  cut  slices  of  bread  the  size  of 
the  slices  of  tenderloin  ;  fry  them  in  butter,  arrange  them 
on  a  dish — alternately  a  slice  of  fillet  and  a  slice  of  bread 
— and  pour  over  them  a  sauce piquante. 

Birds  without  Bones  d  la  Bertini. — Take  thin  slices  of 
tenderloin  beef;  spread  over  them  thin  slices  of  boiled 
ham  exactly  the  same  size ;  put  in  each  one  a  ripe  olive 
and  a  sage  leaf;  wrap  them  up  and  tie  them  tightly  in 
little  rolls ;  cook  them  in  olive-oil  in  a  saucepan ;  remove 
the  threads  and  serve. 

Stewed  Beef  Feet  for  Breakfast. —  Clean  your  beef's 
feet ;  scrape  well,  and  scald  and  remove  the  hoofs ;  boil 
them  in  water  until  they  are  tender.  You  can  ascertain 
this  by  sticking  them  with  a  sharp  knife.  Drain  them, 
and  remove  the  large  bones;  put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a 


MEATS— BEEF.  101 

saucepan  with  the  feet,  pour  in  a  cupful  of  rich,  sweet 
cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  slowly  until  you 
can  run  a  straw  through  them,  and  serve. 

Sirloin  d  la  Godard. — Remove  the  bones  from  the  sir- 
loin, trim  away  the  gristle,  and  any  tendons  you  can  reach  ; 
lard  it  well  with  salted  fat  pork ;  make  it  into  a  round ; 
skewer  it  carefully  to  keep  it  in  shape ;  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  carrots,  a  bunch  of  fine  herbs,  onions,  salt,  and 
pepper;  cover  it  with  good  bouillon,  and  put  in  it  a  glass- 
ful of  Madeira ;  cook  it  on  a  slow  fire ;  when  the  beef  is 
done  skim  the  gravy  and  strain  it;  return  it  to  the  sauce- 
pan with  some  meat  juice,  sliced  sweetbreads,  artichokes, 
and  mushrooms;  pour  this  sauce  over  your  sirloin  and 
serve. 

The  Best  Way  to  Heat  Cold  Meats. — Cover  them  with 
buttered  paper;  put  them  on  the  spit  until  they  warm 
through.  They  will  be  as  tender  as  the  first  day.  If  the 
cold  meats  are  in  small  pieces,  cover  them  with  buttered 
paper,  and  broil  them  on  the  gridiron  ;  sprinkle  them  with 
finely  chopped  herbs. 

Bib  Piece  a  la  Marseillaise. — Remove  the  bones  from 
the  rib  piece ;  cook  it  in  a  saucepan  with  some  slices  of 
bacon ;  set  it  aside ;  make  a  roux  in  the  saucepan  ;  put 
back  your  rib  piece  and  slices  of  bacon ;  add  spices,  salt, 
onions,  carrots,  soup  bunch,  and  a  glassful  of  brandy;  cook 
it  five  hours  over  a  slow  fire,  skim  it,  and  serve.  A  great 
many  pieces  of  beef,  veal,  mutton,  and  even  pork,  can  be 
served  in  this  manner. 

Tripe,  Bow  to  Prepare  it. — Scrape  your  tripe ;  clean 
it  carefully  ;  wash  it  through  several  waters  (boiling),  then 
in  cold  water ;  cook  six  hours  in  water  with  slices  of  on- 
ion, cloves,  salt,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  flour. 


VEAL. 

Roast  Loin  of  Veal. — Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a 
pound  ;  heat  gradually,  and  baste  frequently— at  first  with 
salt  and  water,  afterwards  with  its  own  gravy;  when  near- 
ly done  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste  once  witli 
melted  butter.  Should  the  meat  brown  too  fast,  cover 
with  white  paper  buttered ;  skim  the  gravy,  thicken  with 
a  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

Veal  Chops. — Trim  as  for  mutton-chops,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  and  roll  in  bread  crumb,  and  fry. 

Veal  Steak. — This  should  be  thinner  than  beefsteak,  and 
thoroughly  cooked.  Kare  veal  is  an  abomination.  Broil 
on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  frequently 
until  thoroughly  cooked ;  serve  with  tomato  sauce  poured 
over  the  steak,  made  as  follows:  A  teacupful  of  tomato 
stewed  and  strained ;  five  small  button  onions,  chopped 
fine ;  a  little  thyme  and  parsley ;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg ;  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Heat  all  in  a  saucepan,  and  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of 
browned  flour. 

Veal  Sausage  d  la  Baviere  (Frau  von  P.  zu  P.). — Take 
a  good  piece  of  veal,  extract  the  bone,  and  pound  it  with 
a  mallet ;  put  both  veal  and  bone  into  a  casserole,  together 
with  a  calf's  foot,  and  sprinkle  both  with  salt  and  white 
pepper ;  put  in,  also,  some  chopped  onions,  carrots,  celery, 
and  parsley ;  also  some  sweet  marjoram,  thyme,  grated 
rind  of  lemon,  a  laurel  leaf,  and  several  slices  of  bacon. 


MEATS— VEAL.  103 

It  is  better  to  put  the  vegetables,  herbs,  and  bacon  into  the 
casserole  first,  and  then  the  meat  and  calf's  foot.  When 
all  the  ingredients  are  in  the  casserole  pour  in  a  table- 
spoonfnl  of  vinegar,  and  about  five  ounces  of  melted 
butter;  cover  the  casserole  with  buttered  paper,  put  on 
the  cover,  and  steam  slowly,  until  the  contents  are  a  soft 
mass ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  remove  the  bone  and 
calf's  foot,  and  put  the  meat  into  a  mortar ;  pound  and 
chop  it,  moistening  from  time  to  time  with  the  liquor; 
then  work  it  all  into  a  fine,  smooth  mass,  and  form  it  into 
a  thick  sausage  roll ;  brush  it  over  with  melted  butter,  and 
set  it  on  a  wet  board,  in  a  cool  place,  to  harden ;  serve 
French  mustard  with  it.  This  receipt  is  also  nice  for 
venison. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie. — Batter  a  large  bowl  very  thickly, 
and  line  with  sliced  and  buttered  hard-boiled  eggs ;  then 
put  in  alternate  layers  of  the  thinnest  possible  slices  of 
veal  and  ham,  each  completely  freed  from  fat,  peppered, 
and  sprinkled  with  lemon  juice ;  proceed  in  this  way  until 
the  dish  is  packed  to  the  brim,  remembering  always  to  pack 
very  tightly ;  when  Ml  cover  all  with  a  thick  paste  made 
of  flour  and  hot  water,  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  with 
ease  ;  let  it  overlap  the  rim  by  about  an  inch  ;  set  the  bowl 
in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  taking  care  that  the  water  does  not 
come  up  to  the  paste  rim ;  boil  steadily,  but  not  hard,  for 
three  hours ;  then  set  away  in  a  cool  place  for  twenty-four 
houws  ;  then  remove  the  paste,  turn  the  pie  out  of  the  bowl, 
and  when  you  serve  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Minced  Veal  (Old  Humphrey). — Take  any  cold  roast 
veal ;  remove  the  skin,  fat,  and  bones  ;  put  the  bones,  skin, 
and  gristly  pieces  into  a  saucepan  with  a  cup  of  cold  milk, 
or,  better  still,  of  veal  or  chicken  stock,  a  little  ham,  a  small 
red-pepper  pod,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar,  also  a  small  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs  ;  stew  all  together  for  an  hour,  then  strain, 
thicken  with  flour,  return  to  the  saucepan,  and  boil  five 


104  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

minutes  longer,  stirring  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
another  of  roasted,  powdered  parsley.  Meanwhile  mince 
the  cold  veal,  and  put  into  the  gravy  a  little  at  a  time; 
adding,  also,  a  little  grated  rind  of  lemon  ;  when  almost  at 
boiling-point  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and,  last 
of  all,  a  little  lemon  juice ;  heap  on  a  hot  dish,  and  sur- 
round with  slices  of  lemon. 

Scalloped  Veal. — Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  fill  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  finely  minced  veal  and  rolled  bread  crumbs, 
dotting  the  bread  crumbs  with  bits  of  butter ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  moisten  with  cream  or  milk ;  last  of 
all  pour  in  a  cupful  of  veal  broth,  and  cover  with  a  thick 
layer  of  rolled  bread  crumbs,  dotting  it  heavily  with  bits 
of  butter ;  bake  half  an  hour  if  the  dish  be  small.  It  should 
be  covered  at  first,  and  the  cover  removed  only  just  long 
enough  to  allow  it  to  brown. 

Tomatille. — Cat  your  veal  in  thin  slices,  and  about  four 
inches  square  ;  make  a  rich  forcemeat  stuffing  by  chopping 
up  very  fine  a  little  fat  pork,  eschalottes,  bread  crumbs, 
salt  and  pepper — bind  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  put  a 
spoonful  of  this  stuffing  on  each  slice  of  veal,  make  it  in 
little  balls,  and  stew  them  in  a  rich  brown  gravy  made  as 
follows:  Make  a  roux,  add  some  finely  chopped  onions,  a 
little  stock,  season  to  taste ;  cook  gently,  and  keep  the 
saucepan  closely  covered. 

Veal  Boullets. — Take  any  cold  veal  you  have  left ;  chop 
it  up  finely ;  add  lean  ham  well  chopped,  a  little  fat  pork, 
chopped  onions,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper ;  bind  it  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up  with  a  little  flour;  make  it  into 
flat  cakes  and  fry ;  serve  with  any  sauce — mayonnaise  is 
excellent. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes  a  la  Creole  (Madame  Eugene). — 
Soak  the  sweetbreads  an  hour  in  warm  water,  and  blanch 


MEATS— VEAL.  105 

them  in  boiling  water  until  the  larding  needle  can  pass 
through  them  without  tearing  them  ;  cut  them  in  dice ;  cut 
the  same  quantity  of  mushrooms,  also,  in  dice ;  stew  them 
together  in  a  little  white  sauce ;  make  them  into  shapes  like 
a  pear,  sticking  a  clove  in  the  end ;  powder  them  with 
bread  crumbs  and  fry;  serve  with  a  tomato  sauce. 

Blanqtiette  of  Veal. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  when  it  is  melted  stir  in  a  good  spo*onful  of  flour — 
do  not  let  it  color ;  pour  in  by  degrees  two  glasses  of  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  a  little  chopped  on- 
ion, parsley,  salt,  and  pepper ;  cut  up  in  small  pieces  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  veal,  and  cook  it  in  this  sauce.  It 
will  require  three  hours  over  a  slow  fire.  If  you  make 
your  blanquette  of  cold  meats  you  need  only  cook  it  long 
enough  to  warm  it  through.  To  vary  it  you  can  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  after  you  remove  the  saucepan  from 
the  fire. 

Veal  Galantine. — Bone  a  good  shoulder  of  veal ;  trim 
it  into  a  good  shape;  make  a  stuffing  of  some  tender  meat 
— either  veal,  fowls,  or  game,  raw  or  cooked,  taking  out  all 
tendons  or  bones;  chop  it  up  with  twice  the  quantity  of 
kidney  fat  of  veal  or  beef,  removing  all  the  membranes 
which  cover  it,  and  mix  it  well ;  adding  salt,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, a  little  parsley  and  chives,  a  pinch  of  bay  leaf  and 
thyme  powdered  ;  pound  all  this  well  in  a  wooden  or  mar- 
ble mortar;  add,  by  degrees,  in  pounding,  two  eggs  beaten 
up — the  white  of  the  egg  gives  consistency  to  the  paste ; 
mix  it  till  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste  ;  spread  out  the  shoul- 
der of  veal ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg ; 
then  put  a  layer  of  the  stuffing,  then  a  layer  of  strips  of 
veal,  ham,  and  bacon,  and  slices  of  truffles;  roll  it  all  up 
and  tie  it  tightly;  cover  it  with  a  cloth  and  tie  it  up; 
line  a  deep  saucepan  with  strips  of  bacon  and  bacon  skin, 
carrots,  onions,  soup  bunch,  and  cloves;  put  in  the  galan- 
tine with  all  the  trimmings  of  the  shoulder  of  veal;  sea- 


106  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

son  with  a  little  salt ;  add  a  little  bouillon  and  a  pint 
of  white  wine;  cook  it  slowly  three  hours;  drain  your 
galantine,  and  do  not  remove  the  cloth  or  untie  it  until 
it  is  cold. 

To  make  the  jelly,  heat  your  gravy  and  skim  it ;  beat  up 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  in  a  saucepan  ;  pour  in  by  degrees 
your  gravj^,  beating  all  the  time  till  the  moment  it  begins 
to  boil ;  set  it  back  on  the  stove,  cover  it,  and  put  hot  coals 
on  the  cover ;  le*t  it  simmer  very  slightly ;  when  the  whites 
are  nearly  cooked  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  which  will 
clarify  it ;  stretch  a  napkin  over  the  four  feet  of  a  stool 
turned  upside  down,  put  a  dish  underneath,  and  strain 
your  jelly  gently  through;  when  it  is  cold,  cut  it  up  and 
decorate  your  dish  with  it.  You  can  clarify  any  gravy  or 
consomme  in  this  manner,  and  it  will  be  perfectly  trans- 
parent. 

■  Fricandeau  of  Veal. — Lard  a  round  of  veal  very  line 
and  close  on  the  upper  side ;  line  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan 
with  slices  of  bacon,  carrots,  onions,  two  cloves,  and  a  soup 
bunch  ;  put  your  veal  in  the  saucepan  and  pour  over  some 
bouillon.  Be  careful  to  baste  it  from  time  to  time  with 
its  own  sauce.  When  the  fricandeau  is  done  (it  will  take 
from  two  to  three  hours  to  cook)  take  it  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan, skim  your  sauce,  remove  the  soup  bunch,  reduce  the 
sauce,  and  when  it  becomes  thick  and  brown  pour  it  over 
your  fricandeau  ;  serve  it  on  &  puree  of  sorrel,  spinach,  to- 
matoes, or  celery. 

Veal  CooJced  in  its  Own  Juice. — Lard  a  round  of  veal, 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  let  it 
take  a  good  color ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bay  leaf ;  cook 
it  over  a  slow  tire  two  or  three  hours;  skim  the  gravy, 
pour  a  little  water  in  the  saucepan,  mix  it  well  with  the 
gravy,  and  serve. 

Ragout  of  Veal. — Cut  the  breast  of  veal  in  pieces  three 

5* 


MEATS— VEAL.  107 

inches  square,  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  butter,  and  take 
them  out  of  the  saucepan  ;  make  a  roux  in  the  same  sauce- 
pan with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour ;  pour  in  two  glasses  of 
water  or  bouillon  ;  put  back  the  veal ;  add  a  carrot,  an  on- 
ion stuck  with  cloves,  a  soup  bunch,  salt,  and  pepper,  a 
pinch  of  sugar,  some  little  onions  fried  beforehand  in  but- 
ter, and  some  mushrooms ;  when  it  is  all  well  cooked  re- 
move the  soup  bunch,  skim,  and  serve. 

Hound  of  Veal  with  Anchovies. — Take  the  bone  out  of 
a  round  of  veal ;  flatten  it  and  lard  it  with  anchovies ;  salt 
(very  little)  and  pepper ;  pour  a  glassful  of  vinegar  over 
it  and  let  it  steep  eight  hours ;  wipe  it  dry ;  sprinkle  it 
with  a  little  flour,  and  put  it  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little 
olive-oil ;  cook  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  both  sides  brown 
nicely;  when  it  is  done  serve  it  on  a  dish,  add  a  little 
stock  to  your  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  stir  it  well,  and  pour  over  your  veal ; 
serve  hot. 

Boast  Yeal  with  Fine  Herbs. — Lard  a  loin  well  with 
lard,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  tine  herbs;  steep  it 
in  a  dish  three  hours,  with  sliced  onions,  chopped  pars- 
ley, mushrooms,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  eschalottes,  pepper, 
salt,  and  olive-oil ;  when  it  is  well  seasoned,  put  it  on  the 
spit,  pour  over  it  all  the  seasoning,  and  envelop  it  in  two 
buttered  sheets  of  white  paper,  and  let  it  cook  before  a 
slow  fire ;  when  it  is  done  remove  the  paper,  and  take  off 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  all  the  little  herbs  that  adhere  to 
the  meat  and  paper ;  put  them  in  the  saucepan  witli  the 
gravy,  a  dash  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  in  which  a  lit- 
tle flour  has  been  kneaded,  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  mix 
all  well  together,  and  serve  with  the  roast. 

Veal  Grillade  d  la  Creole,  No.  1. — Cut  slices  of  tender 
young  veal ;  put  in  a  saucepan  a  spoonful  of  lard,  in  which 
you  slice  and  fry  two  onions,  half  a  dozen  fine,  large,  ripe 


108  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

tomatoes,  salt,  and  pepper  (red  pepper) ;  then  put  the  slices 
of  veal  in  the  saucepan  and  let  it  cook,  adding  a  little 
sprinkle  of  flour  for  thickening ;  serve  it  hot  with  hominy, 
made  of  grits,  for  breakfast.  If  you  need  more  sauce,  add 
more  tomatoes,  or  a  little  water. 

Veal  Grillade,  No.  2. — Take  slices  of  either  veal,  beef, 
mutton,  or  pork;  cut  them  in  slices  of  equal  length  and 
thickness;  steep  them  in  a  little  oil,  pepper,  parsley,  onions, 
and  salt,  all  minced  together,  and  let  them  half  cook  in 
the  saucepan  ;  take  little  paper  boxes,  well  greased  with 
oil,  put  the  grillade  in  them  with  all  the  seasoning,  and 
grate  over  them  some  bread  crumbs ;  cover  them  with  a 
sheet  of  paper,  and  cook  them  slowly  on  a  gridiron  ;  when 
the  sauce  is  made  put  in  a  little  vinegar,  and  pour  this 
over  the  grillade,  which  you  serve  in  the  paper  boxes. 

Veal  Cutlets  en  Papillotes. — Make  a  stuffing  of  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  onions,  pieces  of  fat  pork  chopped  very 
fine,  mushrooms,  eschalottes,  salt,  and  pepper ;  choose  fine 
cutlets  ;  shape  them  nicely ;  spread  a  layer  of  this  stuffing 
on  both  sides  of  your  cutlets ;  cover  each  side  with  a  thin 
slice  of  bacon;  envelop  it  carefully  in  a  buttered  paper 
in  the  form  of  a  large  heart ;  cook  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  on  a  gridiron,  over  a  slow  fire,  and  serve  it  in  the 
paper. 

Pate  of  Coifs  Liver. — Three  pounds  of  liver ;  half  a 
pound  of  round  of  veal ;  half  a  pound  of  fillet  of  beef ; 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  pork ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork ;  half  a  pound  of  sausage  meat ;  a  lump  of  beef  mar- 
row as  large  as  a  walnut ;  an  onion ;  a  clove  of  garlic ; 
parsley  ;  eschalottes  ;  chevril ;  two  cloves ;  a  little  nutmeg; 
salt  and  pepper. 

Pound  the  liver,  and  chop  the  veal,  beef,  and  pork  very 
fine ;  put  this  in  a  mould ;  cook  it  two  hours  in  an  oven 
or  in  the  stove ;  serve  cold  and  grated. 


MEATS— VEAL.  109 

Bordelaise  Cutlets. — Shape  your  cutlets  nicely ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg ;  make  a  stuff- 
ing of  fat  meat  and  veal  chopped  very  fine,  bread  crumbs, 
chopped  eschalottes,  and  parsley ;  bind  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  spread  this  over 
each  cutlet ;  brush  them  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  sprin- 
kle with  bread  crumbs;  put  them  in  a  baking-dish  well 
buttered,  with  fire  above  and  below ;  when  done  arrange 
them  on  a  dish;  pour  a  little  bouillon  and  a  dash  of  vine- 
gar in  the  baking-dish  to  make  a  gravy,  which  you  pour 
over  the  chops. 

Ragout  of  Kidneys. — Slice  the  kidneys,  and  remove  the 
little  hard  pieces  in  the  middle ;  put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  fry  your  kidneys  two  minutes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  few  sliced 
mushrooms,  and  pour  in  some  white  or  red  wine  and  a  lit- 
tle bouillon  ;  cook  your  sauce  till  it  thickens,  and  pour  it 
over  the  kidneys. 

Liver  Stewed. — Slice  the  liver  and  lay  in  salt  and  water 
fur  an  hour ;  then  cut  into  dice  and  put  on  the  fire  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  well ;  cover  and  stew  for  an 
hour ;  when  done  add  a  little  salt,  pepper,  mace,  sweet  mar- 
joram, parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  ; 
stew  again  for  half  an  hour  longer ;  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  two  of  browned  flour  wet  with  cold  water, 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  one  of  currant  jelly ; 
boil  five  minutes  and  dish.  A  little  sherry  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

Fried  Liver. — Slice  very  thinly  and  lay  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter for  half  an  hour ;  then  wipe  dry,  flour  well,  and  arrange 
in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter;  when  almost  cooked 
add  a  little  salt,  pepper,  powdered  parsley,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice ;  when  well  browned  take  them 
from  the  fire  and  serve  in  hot  dish. 


110  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Stewed  Liver  (Florentine  fashion). — Chop  very  finely 
some  shallots,  carrots,  a  little  celery,  parsley,  and  a  few 
truffles  or  dried  mushrooms,  half  a  laurel  leaf,  a  little 
thyme,  and  basil ;  add  some  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg ;  cut  the  liver  into  thin  slices  and  then  into  small 
squares ;  put  a  layer  of  liver  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole 
with  a  little  butter ;  cover  this  with  a  layer  of  the  chopped 
vegetables,  then  put  another  layer  of  liver,  and  so  on  until 
the  casserole  is  quite  full ;  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly, 
with  fire  below  and  above,  for  an  hour ;  serve  the  liver  in 
a  hot  dish  with  the  vegetables  arranged  round  it;  pour 
over  all  a  piquant  sauce. 

Calfs  Liver  Roasted  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold "). — Soak  the  liver  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to  draw 
out  the  blood ;  wipe  dry,  and  stuff  with  forcemeat  made 
of  bread  crumbs,  tw,o  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  chopped  small, 
a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  sweet  marjoram  and 
thyme,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  little  sage ;  moisten  this  with 
butter  melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  two  raw  eggs 
well  beaten.  In  order  to  get  this  into  the  liver,  make  an 
incision  with  a  narrow,  sharp  knife,  and  move  the  point 
dexterously  to  and  fro  to  enlarge  the  cavity  ;  stuff  this  full 
of  forcemeat  and  sew  up  the  orifice,  lard  with  strips  of 
salt  pork,  and  baste  with  butter  and  water  at  first,  after- 
wards with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan ;  roast  for  an 
hour;  pour  the  gravy  over  the  liver  when  done. 

Eoasted  liver  is  very  good  cold,  cut  in  slices  like  tongue. 

Imitation  Paths  de  Foie  Gras  of  Liver. — Boil  a  calf's 
liver  in  water  that  has  been  slightly  salted,  and  in  another 
vessel  a  nice  calf's  tongue.  It  is  best  to  do  this  the  day 
before  the  pdtSs  are  made,  as  they  should  be  not  only  cold, 
but  firm,  when  used.  Cut  the  liver  into  bits,  and  rub  them 
gradually  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  Wedge  wood  mortar,  mois- 
tening, as  you  go  on,  with  melted  butter ;  work  into  this 
paste,  which  should  be  quite  soft,  a  quarter  teaspoonf ul  of 


MEATS— VEAL.  Ill 

cayenne  pepper,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  white  or  black, 
half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  to  taste,  a  full  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  in 
which  an  onion  has  been  steeped  until  the  flavor  is  ex- 
tracted ;  work  all  together  thoroughly,  and  pack  in  jelly- 
jars  with  air-tight  covers,  or,  if  you  have  them,  in  pate 
jars;  butter  the  inside  of  the  jars  well,  and  pack  the  pate 
very  hard,  inserting  here  and  there  square  and  triangular 
bits  of  the  tongue,  which  should  be  pared  and  cut  up  for 
this  purpose.  These  simulate  the  truffles  imbedded  in  the 
genuine  pates  from  Strasburg  and  elsewhere.  When  the 
jar  is  packed  and  smooth  as  marble  on  the  surface,  cover 
with  melted  butter;  let  this  harden,  put  on  the  lid,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place.  In  winter  it  will  keep  for  weeks, 
and  is  very  nice  for  luncheon  or  tea.  Make  into  sand- 
wiches, or  set  on  in  the  jars  if  they  are  nice  and  orna- 
mental. These  pates  are  really  very  good,  and  resemble 
in  taste  the  real  pate  defoie  gras.  Pigs'  livers  make  a  very 
fair  pate.  The  livers  of  several  fowls,  however,  treated  as 
above,  make  even  more  satisfactory ^>a£es  than  the  above, 
particularly  if  you  can  get  real  truffles. 

Calf's  Head  Stewed. — Scald  the  head  in  boiling  water 
in  which  a  little  lye  has  been  dissolved.  When  the  hair 
has  been  completely  removed,  scald  again  carefully ;  then 
wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  take  out  the  brains,  and 
set  them  by  in  a  cool  place  ;  tie  the  head  in  a  floured  cloth, 
and  boil  two  hours  in  hot  water  slightly  salted;  wash  the 
brains  carefully,  picking  out  all  the  bits  of  skin  and  mem- 
brane, and  cleansing  them  until  perfectly  white ;  then 
stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  boil  the  head 
until  the  meat  slips  easily  from  the  bones ;  then  cut  the 
meat  into  small  even  squares,  and  stew  in  the  water  in 
which  the  head  was  boiled,  adding,  also,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  a  glassful  of  Madeira,  and  thickening  with  a  tea- 


112  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

spoonful  of  brown  flour  moistened  with  cold  water;  make 
small  croquettes  of  the  brains,  which  should  be  poached, 
not  fried ;  serve  in  the  dish  with  the  stew,  arranging  the 
croquettes  round  the  stew  in  the  centre. 

Calves'1  Brains  in  Shells.— In  using  calves'  brains  be 
careful  always  to  have  them  fresh.  This  being  secured, 
boil  two  calves'  brains,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  put 
them  into  an  earthen  saucepan,  and  season  them  with  pep-, 
per  and  salt ;  put  into  a  casserole  several  tablespoonf  uls  of 
Vechamel  sauce,  strained ;  mix  with  it,  little  by  little,  sev- 
eral tablespoonf  uls  of  stock  ;  when  it  is  smooth  and  creamy 
add  four  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  herbs,  roasted  and  crumbled 
to  powder ;  two  minutes  after  add  the  brains,  mashing  and 
stirring  well  so  that  they  are  smoothly  mixed  with  the 
cream  ;  fill  some  shells  with  this  mixture,  dust  with  grated 
bread  crumbs,  put  into  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown, 
and  serve  at  once. 

Cromesquis  of  Calves''  Brains. — Pour  into  a  casserole  a 
glassful  of  good,  strong  brown  sauce,  made  according  to  any 
of  the  foregoing  receipts;  mix  with  it, little  by  little, four 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  stock  (beef)  and  a  wineglassful 
of  Madeira ;  when  it  is  thick  and  smooth  withdraw  from 
the  fire  and  add  two  calves'  brains,  boiled  and  cut  into 
dice  as  above ;  add,  also,  half  the  quantity  of  boiled  mush- 
rooms and  as  much  red  tongue,  cut  into  small  squares ;  mix 
all  together,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a  soujpcon  of  mus- 
tard, and  set  away  to  cool ;  when  cold  form  into  small  rolls, 
envelop  each  in  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water,  rolled 
thin  ;  dip  the  cromesquis  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  in 
rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  ;  drain,  and  serve 
on  a  folded  napkin. 

Boast  Sweetbreads. — Clean  and  skin  four  sweetbreads; 
then  heat  them  almost  to  boiling;  remove  from  the  cas- 
serole, drain,  wipe  dry,  and  lard  them  ;  put  them  into  a  deep 


MEATS— VEAL.  113 

dish  and  pour  over  them  a  little  melted  butter,  then  cover 
them  carefully  with  a  chopped  onion  and  a  little  thyme 
and  laurel ;  cover  the  dish  and  let  them  soak  for  an  hour ; 
then  remove  the  vegetables,  envelop  each  of  the  sweet- 
breads in  white  buttered  paper,  put  them  on  the  spit,  or 
on  a  skewer,  and  roast  before  a  clear  h're  for  half  an  hour ; 
remove  the  paper,  baste  them  with  their  own  drippings 
until  brown,  then  glaze  with  a  salamander,  and  serve  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  surrounded  with  freshly  boiled  and  tender 
green  pease. 

Fried  Sweetbreads. — Blanch  three  or  four  moderately 
large  sweetbreads,  drain,  and  allow  them  to  cool ;  remove 
all  strings  and  skin,  and  cut  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dust  with  flour;  beat  two 
eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  together ;  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  fine  herbs  roasted  and  powdered ;  dip  the 
slices  of  sweetbread  in  this,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
quickly  in  butter  or  drippings ;  drain  on  soft  paper,  ar- 
range on  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  a  little  fried 
parsley. 

Stewed  Sweetbreads. — Wash  carefully  and  remove  all 
fibrous  and  fatty  matter,  and  as  much  skin  as  possible; 
then  put  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  heat 
to  a  boil ;  pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover  with  cold  un- 
til the  sweetbreads  are  firm ;  when  firm  stew  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  when  tender  add  for  each  sweetbread  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  some  rich  cream ;  let  them 
simmer  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  in  the  sauce  in  which 
they  have  been  stewed. 

Or,  you  may  lard  the  sweetbreads  and  make  a  brown 
gravy,  substituting  for  the  cream  a  glassful  of  good  wine. 
In  this  case  do  not  cook  the  sweetbreads  in  the  sauce. 
Let  it  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  them. 


114  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Sweetbread  a  la  Financiere. — Scrape  and  skin  two  sweet- 
breads, then  blanch,  dip  in  cold  water,  and  put  under  a 
slight  pressure;  when  quite  cold  trim,  and  season  them 
with  salt  and  pepper;  then  lay  them  in  a  buttered  sauce- 
pan and  cook  for  two  or  three  minutes,  turning  them  con- 
stantly ;  then  add  half  a  tumblerful  of  good  white  bouillon 
and  cook  until  it  thickens;  then  turn  the  sweetbreads,  add 
another  half  glassful  of  white  bouillon,  and  cook  as  before ; 
then  arrange  in  a  circle  on  a  very  hot  dish,  cover,  and  set 
in  a  hot  place  while  you  prepare  the  financiere. 

Pour  into  the  saucepan  in  which  the  sweetbreads  were 
cooked  a  glassful  of  Rhine  wine,  boil,  and  strain ;  skim 
and  put  back  into  the  saucepan,  cook  until  it  thickens,  and 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  brown  sauce,  and  four  raw  truffles 
peeled  and  cut  into  quarters;  cook  fi.ve  minutes,  and  add 
some  button  mushrooms  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  when  it 
boils  up  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  to  it  twenty  small  force- 
meat balls,  poached,  and  pour  all  into  the  hollow  left  by 
the  circle  of  sweetbreads.     {Delicious.) 

Sweetbread  Croquettes  (Augustine's). — Cut  into  dice  three 
or  four  cooked  sweetbreads,  and  mix  with  them  half  the 
quantity  of  breast  of  boiled  chicken  pounded  to  a  paste, 
and  a  little  rolled  bread  crumbs  softened  with  rich  cream ; 
mix  all  smoothly  together,  adding  more  cream,  as  much  as 
is  necessary  to  soften  the  paste ;  when  very  soft — as  soft 
as  it  can  be  and  hold  together — season  with  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  a  soupgon  of  nutmeg;  set  aside  to  cool ;  when 
cold  form  into  oval  balls,  rolling  in  bread  crumbs,  dipping 
in  beaten  egg,  then  rolling  in  bread  crumbs  again  ;  fry  in 
a  wire  basket,  drain  on  soft  paper,  and  serve  on  a  folded 
napkin,  or  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  green  pease. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Yirginie. — Prepare  the  sweetbreads 
very  carefully  and  blanch ;  put  them  into  a  strong  stock 
of  chicken  or  beef,  well  seasoned  with  onion  and  celery ; 
simmer  gently  for  three  hours;  take  them  out,  drain,  and 


MEATS— VEAL.  115 

fry  in  lard  to  a  light  brown ;  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish  sur- 
rounded by  green  pease. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Blanchette. — Prepare  the  sweetbreads 
as  above,  and  blanch ;  put  them  into  a  strong  chicken 
stock  flavored  with  onion  and  celery;  simmer  gently  for 
three  hours;  take  them  out,  drain,  and  serve  in  a  rich 
white  sauce  with  a  good  deal  of  roasted  parsley  in  it. 


MTJTTOK 

Boast  Saddle  of  Mutton  &  la  Virginie. — Wash  the  sad- 
dle thoroughly,  inside  and  out,  with  good  vinegar;  do  not 
wipe  it,  but  hang  up  to  dry  in  a  cool  cellar ;  when  quite 
dry  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  or  tie  in  a  loose  muslin  bag ; 
sponge  off  with  vinegar  every  other  day  for  a  fortnight, 
keeping  the  meat  in  a  very  cold  place  and  always  covered. 
When  ready  to  cook  wipe  it  carefully  with  a  clean  cloth, 
and  roast,  basting  for  the  first  two  hours  with  butter  and 
water,  and  afterwards  with  the  gravy.  A  large  saddle  of 
mutton  will  require  four  hours  to  roast ;  when  roasted, 
dish  on  a  hot  dish,  and  keep  covered  while  you  skim  the 
gravy,  and  add  half  a  teacupful  of  mushroom  catsup,  a 
glassful  of  Madeira  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour ;  boil  up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat ;  al- 
ways serve  currant  jelly  with  mutton. 

Mutton  Ham  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). — 
Leg  of  mutton  weighing  twelve  pounds ;  one  ounce  of 
black  pepper ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  one 
ounce  of  saltpetre ;  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  salt. 

The  day  after  the  sheep  is  killed,  mix  the  sugar,  pepper, 
and  saltpetre,  and  nib  thoroughly  into  the  meat  for  fifteen 
minutes,  until  the  outer  part  is  thoroughly  impregnated 
with  the  seasoning.  Put  the  ham  into  a  large  earthenware 
vessel  and  cover  it  with  the  salt;  let  it  remain  thus  for 
three  weeks,  turning  it  daily  and  basting  it  with  the  brine, 
adding  to  this,  after  the  first  week,  a  teacupful  of  vinegar. 
When  the  ham  is  removed  from  the  pickle,  wash  with  cold 
water,  then  with  vinegar,  and  hang  it  up  in  a  cool  cellar 


ME  ATS— MUTTON.  117 

for  a  week,  at  least,  before  it  is  used.     Soak  an  hour  in 
fair  water  before  boiling. 

Or,  if  you  choose  to  smoke  it  for  several  days  after 
it  is  corned,  it  can  be  chipped  and  eaten  raw  like  dried 
beef. 

Mutton  Chops. — Trim  off  all  superfluous  fat  and  skin, 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  when  cooked, 
salt  and  pepper  lightly,  and  stick  a  bit  of  butter  on  each. 
Chops  must  be  rare  always.  A  too  well  done  chop  is  a 
chop  spoiled. 

Stewed  Mutton  Cutlets. — Cut  and  shape  the  cutlets  from 
the  best  part  of  the  neck;  cut  the  bones  short  and  scrape 
the  ends,  and  take  most  of  the  fat  off ;  put  them  into  a 
deep  dish,  after  they  have  been  peppered  and  salted,  with 
seasoned  beef  gravy ;  let  them  stew  for  three  hours  in  a 
slow  oven ;  the  dish  should  be  kept  covered ;  serve  with 
the  liquor  in  which  they  have  been  stewed,  to  which  a 
teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup  and  the  same  of  tarragon 
vinegar  have  been  added ;  arrange  in  a  circle  on  a  round 
dish,  putting  mashed  potatoes  or  mashed  turnips  in  the 
middle.  These  cutlets  look  better  if  glazed  a  dark  brown 
before  being  sent  to  table. 

Broiled  Mutton  Cutlets. — Cut  the  cutlets  out  of  a  piece 
of  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  ;  they  should  be  less 
than  half  an  inch  thick  and  neatly  trimmed,  with  not  too 
much  fat  left  on  them ;  give  them  a  few  blows  with  the 
bat,  and  grill  them  on  or  in  front  of  the  fire,  which  should 
be  clear  and  fierce,  so  that  each  cutlet  be  full  of  juice  when 
cut;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  arrange  in  a  circle  round  a 
heap  of  potato  sautees. 

Two  Dishes  from  One  Leg  of  Mutton. — Cut  the  leg  of 
mutton  cleanly  across  the  meat  and  bone  from  the  shank 
down,  with  as  much  meat  as  will  suffice  for  the  meal ;  rub 


118  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

it  and  flour  it  all  over,  but  especially  the  cut-meat  surface ; 
plunge  it  at  once  into  a  saucepan  or  pot  of  boiling  water 
to  cover  it  completely,  adding  some  salt,  a  few  grains  of 
pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley ;  draw  away  from  the  fire 
and  allow  the  water  to  cool  almost  completely,  then  put 
again  to  the  fire  and  cook  slowly,  according  to  weight,  till 
quite  done  to  taste ;  serve  with  parsley,  onions,  capers,  sor- 
rel, or  any  sauce  preferred. 

Or,  it  may  be  stewred,  as  above,  with  a  great  variety  of 
vegetables.  The  flour  and  the  plunging  into  boiling  wa- 
ter will  prevent  the  juice  from  escaping,  and  the  meat  will 
cut  as  finely  as  from  a  whole  boiled  leg  of  mutton. 

Mutton  Steak. — From  the  rest  of  the  leg  of  mutton  cut 
cleanly  and  evenly  a  slice  from  the  full  round  of  two  or 
three  inches  thick;  pepper  and  flour  both  sides  at  once, 
and  insert  a  piece  of  shallot  onion  in  the  bone  eye ;  broil 
the  meat  slowly  on  a  beefsteak  griddle,  covering  the  up- 
per surface  with  chopped  beef  marrow,  butter,  or  mutton 
kidney  fat;  prepare  a  brown  gravy  with  fried  shallots, 
brown  stock,  a  few  peppercorns,  two  cloves,  some  lemon 
rings  or  juice,  or  a  spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar ;  strain, 
and  add  some  split  olives  or  pounded  anchovies. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  a  VAnglaise. — Put  your  leg  of 
mutton  in  boiling  water  (salted) ;  add  twelve  whole  tur- 
nips, trimmed  and  cleaned ;  let  it  boil  till  done.  You 
allow  half  an  hour  for  every  three  pounds  of  the  meat. 
Drain  it  and  serve  it  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  the  turnips ; 
decorate  the  handle  of  the  gigot  with  frilled  paper ;  serve 
with  caper  sauce. 

Sheep  Kidneys. — Slice  your  kidneys ;  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  sliced  onion,  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  little  flour;  add  a  little  water  or  bouillon, 
salt  and  pepper,  and,  just  before  serving,  a  glassful  of  Ma- 
deira. 


MEATS— MUTTON.  119 

Hochepot. — Cut  up  pieces  of  the  breast,  shoulder,  and 
chops ;  fry  them  in  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  take  them  out 
and  make  a  roux  in  your  saucepan ;  when  it  browns  add 
water,  salt,  pepper,  a  soup  bunch,  and  a  clove  of  garlic ;  put 
back  your  mutton,  and  when  it  is  nearly  done  add  some 
turnips  which  you  have  fried  in  butter  till  they  are  a  gold 
color ;  cook  half  an  hour,  skim,  and  serve.  You  can  sub- 
stitute Irish  potatoes  and  carrots  for  turnips. 

Stewed  Breast  of  Mutton. — Cut  your  breast  in  pieces ; 
stew  it  in  a  saucepan  with  butter,  a  little  water,  onions,  a 
bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper ;  just  before  serving  stir  in  a  cup- 
ful of  cream  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Blakeley  Mutton  Pate. — Boil  the  head,  liver,  and  has- 
lets; drain  well;  remove  all  the  meat  from  the  head;  take 
out  the  brains ;  remove  all  gristle  and  tendons  from  the 
liver  and  haslets ;  pound  all  this  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste ; 
season  this  with  grated  onions,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  and  pars- 
ley, salt  and  pepper,  sliced  ceps  and  truffles,  half  a  clove 
of  garlic,  pounded;  moisten  with  olive-oil,  and  bind  it 
with  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  pour  this  in  a  china  mould  and 
bake ;  serve  cold. 

Baked  Leg  of  Mutton  with  Anchovies  and  Ham. — 
Pound  your  gigot ;  lard  it  with  six  cloves  of  garlic,  salted, 
and  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  with  strips  of  lean  ham ; 
put  your  gigot  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  good  bouillon  ; 
add  salt,  pepper,  a  bay  leaf,  nutmeg,  a  Bordeaux  glassful 
of  brandy ;  cook  on  a  gentle  fire. 

Make  an  anchovy  butter;  pound  a  dozen  anchovies 
(from  which  you  have  removed  the  bones)  into  a  paste, 
and  mix  them  with  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter.  It  should 
be  made  the  moment  the  gigot  is  cooked. 

Take  your  gigot  out  of  the  saucepan  for  a  moment ;  let 
your  sauce  boil  up ;  skim  it,  and  pour  it  in  the  saucepan 
with  your  anchovy  butter;  return  your  gigot  to  the  sauce- 


120  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

pan,  and  let  it  set  on  hot  coals  until  you  are  ready  to 
serve ;  dress  your  gigot  on  a  dish  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 

Saddle  of  Mutton  with  Parsley. — Lard  your  saddle  with 
fresh  parsley,  just  as  you  would  with  strips  of  bacon ;  spit 
it  and  baste  it  well.  It  will  require  one  hour  and  a  half 
to  cook. 

Stuffed  Boast  Leg  of  Mutton. — Lift  up  the  dry  skin  that 
covers  the  leg  carefully,  without  taking  it  off  entirely ; 
lard  your  gigot  with  celery  half  cooked  in  bouillon,  slices 
of  pickles,  tender  bunches  of  estragon  bleached,  strips  of 
fat  pork;  season  it  well,  and  sprinkle  it  with  chopped  an- 
chovies ;  draw  the  skin  over  the  stuffing,  fasten  it  careful- 
ly with  thread,  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  serve  it  in  its  own 
juice. 

Mutton  Stew  (Old  Virginia  dish). — Take  pieces  of  cold 
roast  mutton,  cut  them  up  in  dice,  and  put  them  in  a  chaf- 
ing-dish with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  a  glassful  of  currant 
jelly,  some  mango  pickles  sliced,  and  a  glassful  of  good 
old  Madeira ;  salt  and  pepper ;  light  the  spirit-lamp,  let  it 
heat  through,  and  serve  hot. 

Mutton  Tongues. — Soak  them  an  hour  or  two  in  cold 
water,  then  throw  them  in  boiling  water  until  you  can  re- 
move the  hard  skin  which  covers  them ;  trim  them,  cut 
out  the  hard  piece,  and  split  them  in  two — lengthwise ; 
cook  them  in  a  saucepan  with  slices  of  bacon,  chopped 
mushrooms,  salt,  spices,  parsley,  and  thyme,  and  serve. 

Mutton  Tongues  with  Tomatoes. — Boil  and  skin  your 
tongue;  split  it  lengthwise;  season,  and  pour  over  it  a 
rich  tomato  sauce. 

Cutlets  a  la  Vietime. — Fasten  three  cutlets  together,  the 
finest  one  in  the  middle  ;  broil  them  on  the  gridiron,  turn- 


ME  ATS— MUTTON.  121 

ing  them  several  times  that  the  juice  may  concentrate  in 
the  middle  one ;  when  the  upper  and  lower  ones  are  more 
than  done  put  them  aside,  and  serve  only  the  middle  one. 
This  was  a  favorite  dish  of  Louis  XVIII. 

Cutlets  d  la  Milanaise. — Dip  your  cutlets  in  melted  but- 
ter, and  then  into  pounded  bread  crumbs  and  grated  par- 
mesan  cheese ;  beat  up  two  eggs,  dip  your  cutlets  in  this, 
then  again  into  the  bread  crumbs  and  cheese  ;  fry  them  in 
butter,  and  serve  them  with  tomato  sauce.  * 

Veiled  Cutlets. — Take  fillet  cutlets — those  without  bones 
—trim  and  ihnten  them,  cover  them  with  a  thin  layer  of  sau- 
sage meat  in  which  you  chop  a  few  truffles  ;  envelop  them 
in  the  thin  membrane  that  covers  the  fat  of  pork,  and  broil 
them. 

Cutlets  d  la  Vinaigrette. — Cook  your  chops  in  a  frying- 
pan  with  butter ;  when  they  are  done  drain  them  on  brown 
paper ;  add  several  spoonfuls  of  bouillon  to  the  butter,  es- 
chalottes,  fine  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  pickles  cut  in 
slices ;  let  it  boil  up ;  dress  your  cutlets  on  a  dish ;  pour 
the  sauce  over  them,  adding  a  dash  of  vinegar. 

6 


LAMB. 

The  receipts  given  above  for  mutton  apply  equally  to 
lamb  ;  but  the  cook  must  always  bear  in  mind  that  though 
lamb  may  be  stewed,  it  ought  never  to  be  boiled,  and  that 
underdone  lamb  is  an  abomination,  and  also  indigestible. 

Quarter  of  Lamb  Larded  and  Boasted. — Lard  the  lamb 
carefully  with  a  larding  needle,  envelop  in  buttered  pa- 
per, and  roast  on  the  spit,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven ;  when  al- 
most cooked,  remove  the  paper,  dust  lightly  with  salt  and 
roasted  parsley,  and'  serve  with  maitre  $  hotel  sauce. 

Fillets  of  Lamb  d  la  Bechamel. — Make  a  good  bechamel 
sauce  ;  when  you  are  ready  to  serve,  put  into  it  some  cold 
roast  lamb  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  heat,  but  do  not  boil, 
and,  when  very  hot,  serve. 

Lamb  a  la  Poulette. — Blanch  a  quarter  of  lamb ;  then 
put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  casserole  together  with  a 
spoonful  of  fine  flour  ;  when  the  flour  and  butter  are 
well  amalgamated,  add  two  or  three  glassfuls  of  boiling 
water;  add  the  water  little  by  little  so  that  it  may  mix 
well  with  the  butter ;  when  the  sauce  is  smooth  and 
clear  put  in  the  lamb,  pepper,  salt,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  some  button  onions ;  half  an  hour  before  serving 
add  some  mushrooms;  when  cooked,  put  the  lamb  on  a 
very  heft  dish,  and  arrange  the  onions  and  mushrooms  in 
siTch  a  way  as  to  garnish  it ;  strain  the  sauce,  beat  up 
with  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  pour  over  the  lamb,  and 
serve. 


PORK. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

All  hogs  should  be  kept  shut  up,  and  well  fed  for  three 
weeks  before  they  are  killed  ;  their  sties  should  be  cleaned 
daily,  and  they  should  be  furnished  with  an  abundance  of 
fresh  water.  A  pig  should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  any- 
thing for  twenty-four  hours  before  he  is  killed.  After 
killing  be  very  careful  to  keep  the  pork  from  tainting. 
It  spoils  very  easily.  All  kinds  of  pork  should  be  cooked 
thoroughly.  Underdone  pork  is  very  unwholesome,  as 
well  as  unpalatable. 

Pork  requires  a  great  deal  of  cooking,  and  is  never  fit 
to  eat  when  underdone.  Otherwise  the  usual  rules  for 
roasting  and  boiling  meats  will  apply  to  it.  Pork  chops 
and  steaks  are  cooked  as  those  of  mutton  or  beef. 


Loin  of  Pork  Roasted.  —  Loin  of  pork  is  generally 
scored  across  the  skin,  and  may  be  stuffed  with  a  rich 
stuffing  of  bread,  onion,  and  herbs ;  apple  sauce  is  gener- 
ally eaten  with  all  roast  pork. 

Young  Pig  Roasted. — Prepare  for  roasting,  and  stuff 
as  you  would  a  turkey,  but  put  more  onion  and  dried  and 
powdered  herbs  in  the  stuffing ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  sur- 
rounded by  a  wreath  of  crisped  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 

Austrian  Roast  Pig.  —  Kill  your  pig;  lay  it  in  cold 
water  fifteen  minutes;  then  plunge  it  in  boiling  water; 
scrape  the  hair  off ;  clean  it  perfectly ;  cut  it  open  ;  take 


124  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

out  the  entrails;  wash  thoroughly  with  clear  water;  then 
with  soda  and  water,  and  lastly  with  salt  and  water ;  make 
a  stuffing  with  the  pig's  liver,  fat  pork,  truffles,  mushrooms, 
a  little  garlic,  capers,  hazelnuts,  thyme  and  parsley,  salt 
and  red  pepper;  fry  it  in  your  frying-pan,  and  stuff  your 
pig;  sew  him  up  and  truss;  bend  his  fore-feet  backwards, 
his  hind-feet  forwards,  under  and  close  to  the  body ;  take 
a  sharp  knife,  cut  the  skin  of  the  pig  in  diamonds;  rub 
your  pig  with  melted  butter  or  oil ;  put  it  to  roast  with 
a  little  hot  water,  slightly  salted,  in  the  dripping-pan  ; 
baste  with  butter  and  water;  rub  it  over  every  few  mo- 
ments with  oil  to  have  the  skin  crisp ;  it  requires  two 
hours  to  cook  over  a  brisk  and  steady  fire ;  serve  it  with 
an  apple  in  its  mouth,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  parsley, 
chiccory,  or  curled  celery. 

Roast  Sparerib.— When  put  down  to  the  fire,  cover 
with  greased  paper  until  half  done,  then  remove  the  pa- 
per and  dredge  with  flour.  Afterwards  baste  with  but- 
ter, and  lastly  with  the  gravy  of  the  sparerib  itself ;  just 
before  taking  it  up  dust  with  rolled  bread  crumbs,  a  fine- 
ly minced  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  sage ;  let  it 
cook  five  minutes  longer,  basting  it  meanwhile  with  but- 
ter ;  skim  the  gravy  ;  add  half  a  cupful  of  red  wine ;  thick- 
en with  browned  flour ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  strain, 
and  pour  over  the  sparerib. 

Boast  Chine.  —  Score  deeply  and  closely  the  strip  of 
skin  running  along  the  neck ;  then  roast  as  you  roast 
sparerib. 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans.  —  One  quart  of  small  white 
beans,  washed,  picked  over,  and  soaked  all  night  in  luke- 
warm water,  which  should  be  changed  twice  for  more  and 
warmer  water;  one  pound  of  the  middling  of  salt  pork. 

In  the  morning  pour  the  water  off  the  beans,  and  put 
them  into  an  earthen  crock  ;  score  very  deeply  the  salt 


MEATS— PORK.  125 


pork  and  imbed  it  in  the  beans,  leaving  the  skin  level 
with-  the  beans;  cover  all  barely  with  water  in  which  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  molasses  has  been  stirred ;  add 
some  black  pepper;  then  cover  all  with  a  stiff,  thick  dongli 
of  flour  and  water,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle  for  the 
beans  to  brown  ;  bake  all  day,  very  slowly,  in  a  cool  oven  ; 
lift  the  dough  occasionally  to  see  if  there  is  enough  water ; 
if  too  dry,  add  boiling  water;  towards  the  last  the  beans 
should  absorb  all  the  water;  remove  the  paste  and  serve 
the  pork  and  beans  in  the  crock  in  which  they  were  cooked. 
Earthenware  crocks  made  expressly  for  this  purpose  may 
be  bought  in  New  England. 

Pork  and  Beans.  —  One  quart  of  white  beans ;  one 
pound  of  salt  pork. 

Prepare  beans  and  pork  for  cooking  as  above,  but  in 
the  morning  boil  the  beans,  putting  them  on  to  boil  in  cold 
water;  when  soft  drain  off  the  water,  put  the  beans  in  a 
deep  earthenware  dish,  the  pork  in  the  middle  ;  add  a  very 
little  warm  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  black  pep- 
per to  taste,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

Pork-and-Pease  Pudding. — One  quart  of  dried  split 
pease,  soaked  over-night  in  water;  one  pound  of  salt  pork 
(lean),  soaked  over-night  also. 

In  the  morning  put  the  pease  on  to  boil  slowly  until 
tender ;  drain  and  rub  through  a  colander ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  beat  all  well  together,  and  tie  loosely  in 
a  floured  pudding  cloth  ;  put  it,  with  the  pork,  into  warm 
water,  and  boil  together  for  an  hour;  lay  the  pork  in  a 
dish,  turn  out  the  pudding,  slice,  and  arrange  about  the 
meat. 

Poiled  Ham,  No.  1. — A  ham  should  be  put  into  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  it.    As  soon  as  the  water  boils  set  it  aside, 


126  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

where  it  will  only  simmer,  for  eight  hours;  then  take  it 
out,  remove  the  skin,  and  put  the  ham  again  into  the  ket- 
tle, and  let  it  remain  until  the  water  has  cooled ;  then  take 
it  out,  trim  it  nicely,  sprinkle  over  it  pounded  cracker  and 
brown  sugar,  and  brown  in  an  oven. 

Boiled  Ham,  No.  2. — Soak  over-night  in  cold  water ;  in 
the  morning  wash  and  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water;  allow 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound,  and  do  not  boil  too  fast ; 
skin,  and  brown  as  above. 

Baked  Ham. — Wash  carefully  and  soak  over-night  a 
medium-sized  ham  ;  early  in  the  morning  put  it  into  f  resli 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil ; 
when  it  begins  to  boil  set  it  back,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
four  hours,  filling  the  boiler,  as  it  needs,  with  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  take  it  out  at  the  expiration  of  the  four  hours,  and 
skin  it  while  hot ;  trim  off  the  edges  carefully  and  neatly ; 
then  grate  over  it  (half  an  inch  deep)  bread  crumbs  and  a 
sprinkle  of  brown  sugar ;  put  the  ham  into  a  dripping-pan 
with  half  a  pint  of  its  own  drippings  (in  which  you  have 
dissolved  a  pinch  of  brown  sugar)  and  a  pint  of  Madeira 
wine ;  put  in  the  oven  to  bake,  and  baste  every  few  min- 
utes until  the  ham  is  well  browned  and  every  drop  of  the 
wine  absorbed. 

Steamed  Ham. — Soak  in  cold  water  twelve  hours  ;  then 
wash,  rubbing  thoroughly  with  a  stiff  brush  ;  plunge  again, 
for  a  moment,  in  cold  water ;  take  out  the  ham,  put  into 
a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  set  over  a  pot  of  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  keep  the  water  at  a  hard  boil,  and  allow  twenty  min- 
utes to  a  pound ;  skin,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  etc., 
as  for  boiled  ham. 

Boast  Ham,  No.  1. — Take  a  new  ham  that  has  been 
salted  some  weeks  only  ;  if  smoked,  parboil  it  before  roast- 
ing; while  it  is  before  the  fire  baste  it  with  white  wine 


MEATS— PORK.  127 

and  loaf  sugar  ;  when  half  done  remove  the  skin,  stick  the 
ham  full  of  cloves,  and  let  it  roast  as  long  again,  basting  it 
with  fresh  wine  and  sugar  until  thoroughly  cooked. 

Boast  Ham,  No.  2  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold "). — Soak  a  large  ham  for  two  days  in  lukewarm  wa- 
ter, changing  the  water  at  least  six  times  a  day ;  take  it 
out,  wash  thoroughly,  and  trim  away  the  black  and  rusty 
edges;  skin  carefully  and  completely;  lay  in  a  dish,  and 
sponge  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  the  following  mixture,  which 
should  be  well  mixed :  One  tumblerful  of  white  wine ; 
half  a  gill  of  strong  vinegar;  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar,  heaped ;  one  saltspoonful  of  made  mustard. 

Do  this  thoroughly  once  every  hour — turning  the  ham 
and  sponging  every  part  of  it — all  day  until  bedtime;  re- 
new the  process  in  the  morning  until  six  hours  before  you 
need  the  meat ;  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  add  to  the  mixture 
above  mentioned  a  cupful  of  boiling  water ;  baste  the  ham 
perpetually  with  this  until  it  drips  freely,  then  baste  with 
its  own  drippings  ;  when  cooked  cover  the  ham  with  rolled 
bread  crumbs  worked  to  a  paste  with  cream,  butter,  beaten 
egg,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown  ; 
skim  the  gravy,  add  a  glassful  of  good  wine,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  walnut  catsup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  soupgon 
of  nutmeg ;  boil  up,  and  send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Barbecued  Ham. — Cut  in  slices;  wash  well  and  soak  in 
very  hot  water  for  half  an  hour ;  pour  off  the  water  and 
add  more,  scalding  hot;  let  the  ham  stand  half  an  hour; 
then  take  it  out,  wipe  dry,  lay  in  cold  water  for  five  min- 
utes, wipe  dry  again,  and  arrange  the  slices  in  a  large  fry- 
ing-pan, putting  on  each  slice  a  saltspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  pepper  well;  fry 
quickly  and  turn  often  ;  when  done  to  a  fine  brown  trans- 
fer to  a  hot  dish,  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  half  a  glass- 
ful of  wine  and  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar* 
boil  up  and  pour  over  the  meat. 


128  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Broiled  Ham. — Soak,  etc.,  as  above,  and  broil  on  a  well 
buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear,  fierce  fire. 

Broiled  Ham  au  Gratin  {Guisiniere  Bourgeoise). — 
Soak,  etc.,  as  above  ;  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire. 

Fried  Ham. — Take  raw  ham  ;  slice  and  soak  as  above  ; 
cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  turning  often  until  done;  pour 
over  the  ham,  when  dished,  the  gravy  in  the  frying-pan  ; 
if  you  choose  you  may  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  frying-pan 
a  little  eream  thickened  with  Hour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  parsley ;  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  ham. 

Gold  Ham,  Fried. — Cut  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
fat  extracted  from  bits  of  salt  pork ;  take  the  dry  fried 
pork  from  the  pan  before  putting  in  the  ham ;  garnish 
with  curled  parsley. 

Ham  and  Eggs. — Cut  the  raw  ham  in  large,  even  slices ; 
soak  and  dry  as  usual ;  fry  quickly  in  a  large  frying-pan  ; 
the  moment  they  are  done  put  into  a  hot  dish,  cover,  and 
fry  the  eggs  in  the  fat  left  by  the  ham ;  take  care  that 
the  eggs  do  not  touch  each  other ;  fry  them  three  minutes, 
lay  one  egg  on  each  slice  of  ham,  and  serve. 

Ham  Sandwiches. — Cut  some  rather  stale  bread  very 
thin,  having  previously  grated  off  the  crust ;  butter  each 
slice  on  the  loaf  before  cutting  it ;  lay  between  every  two 
slices  some  cold  boiled  ham  from  which  you  have  removed 
the  fat ;  spread  the  meat  with  a  very  little  mustard. 

Ground- Ham  Sandwiches. — -Grind  some  cold  boiled 
ham  very  fine,  then  dry  in  the  oven  to  a  light  powder. 
Take  an  oblong  white  loaf,  rather  stale ;  grate  off  the 
crust ;  butter  as  above ;  spread  thickly  with  ground  ham, 


MEATS— PORK.  129 

cut  very  thin,  and  roll  up  like  wafers.     These  are  very 
pretty  sandwiches. 

Ham- and-  Chicken  Sandwiches. — Equal  quantities  of 
cold  roast  chicken  and  boiled  ham;  mince  very  fine ;  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  enough  gravy — veal  or  chicken — to 
make  a  soft  paste ;  or,  failing  gravy,  use  cream,  hot  water, 
and  a  lump  of  butter;  cook  live  minutes,  then  take  from 
the  fire  and  spread  on  a  dish  to  cool.  Cut  (with  a  cake 
cutter)  some  white  bread  into  rounds,  half  or  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick ;  butter,  spread  with  grated  cheese,  then 
with  the  mince,  and  press  the  rounds  firmly  together. 

Lard, — Take  leaf  lard,  skin  carefully,  wash,  drain,  cut 
into  bits,  throw  in  a  large  tin  kettle,  and  set  this  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water;  stir  from  time  to  time,  letting  it  simmer 
gently  until  clear,  throwing  in,  also,  a  little  salt  to  make 
the  sediment  settle ;  when  quite  hot  and  clear  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth  into  jars,  being  careful  not  to  press 
it.  Lard  keeps  longer  and  better  in  small  jars.  Cover 
with  bladder. 

To  Try  out  Lard. — Take  all  the  fatty  portions  of  pork 
left  next  the  skin  of  the  hog;  scrape  from  the  rind  and 
cut  into  dice ;  fill  a  large  pot,  put  in  a  cupful  of  water  to 
prevent  burning,  and  melt  very  slowly,  stirring  every  three 
minutes  ;  simmer  until  nothing  remains  of  the  meat  but 
fibrous  bits ;  remove  these  carefully  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  settle  the  fat,  and  when 
clear  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  into  small  jars.  Ke- 
member  to  simmer  gently  over  a  steady  fire,  stirring  con- 
stantly and  from  the  bottom  until  the  salt  is  thrown  in  to 
settle  it,  then  withdraw  it  to  a  less  hot  part  of  the  fire  un- 
til clear.  Do  not  leave  it  an  instant ;  a  moment's  burning 
will  ruin  everything. 

Headcheese. — Boil  the  head,  ears,  and  tongue  in  salted 

6* 


130  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

water  until  tender ;  strip  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  cut 
the  tongue  into  oblongs,  squares,  and  triangles ;  grind  the 
rest  of  the  meat  fine ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  sweet 
marjoram,  powdered  cloves,  and  half  a  cupful  of  strong 
vinegar;  mix  all  together  thoroughly,  and  pack  hard  in 
moulds  or  bowls ;  press  down  the  meat  tightly ;  put  a  wet 
plate  and  a  heavy  weight  on  each  for  two  days.  If  you 
wish  to  keep  it  for  weeks,  immerse  the  cheese  in  cold  vin- 
egar in  stone  jars.  Headcheese  is  good  cold ;  but  may  be 
sliced,  dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fried ; 
or  else  cut  in  slices  and  seasoned  slightly  with  mustard, 
and  warmed. 

Pork  Potpie. — Line  a  well-buttered  pot  with  good, 
light  paste ;  put  in  a  layer  of  chine  of  pork,  cut  into  rib- 
lets  ;  then  a  layer  of  parboiled  potatoes,  sliced ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  pot  is 
nearly  full,  putting  some  strips  of  paste  into  each  layer; 
then  pour  in  a  quart  of  cold  water  and  put  On  the  upper 
crust,  cutting  a  slit  in  it ;  put  on  the  pot-lid  and  boil  from 
an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours;  when  done  lay  in  upper 
crust  in  a  large,  hot  dish,  put  in  the  meat,  etc.,  and  cover 
with  the  lower  crust. 

Ham-and- Chicken  Pie. — Line  a  buttered  pie-dish  with 
good  puff  paste,  and  fill  up  with  alternate  layers  of  cold 
ham  and  boiled  chicken,  interspersing  each  layer  with 
slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  buttered  and  peppered ;  then 
pour  in  a  cupful  of  chicken  and  roux,  cover  with  paste, 
and  bake  an  hour. 

Brawn. — Pig's  head  weighing  six  pounds;  one  pound 
of  lean  beef ;  one  shallot  minced  fine  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of 
salt ;  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  pepper ;  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
cayenne ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace  ;  one  pinch  of  cloves. 

Clean  and  wash  the  head,  and  stew  with  the  beef  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover;  when  the  flesh  is  loosened 


MEATS— PORK.  131 

from  the  bones,  remove  them  and  drain  off  the  liquor; 
grind  the  meat  finely  while  it  is  hot ;  season,  mix,  and 
pour  into  a  tin  boar's  head  wet  with  cold  water. 

Saveloys. — Eight  pounds  of  pork  (soaked  in  a  brine  of 
salt  and  water  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  saltpetre)  for  three 
days ;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper ;  one  teaspoonf ul 
of  cayenne ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  or  mace ;  one  tea- 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs ;  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  sage,  sweet 
marjoram,  and  thyme,  powdered;  a  brine  of  salt  and  wa- 
ter with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  saltpetre,  and  leave  it  for  three 
days. 

Dry,  mince,  season,  mix,  stuff  into  skins,  and  steam  over 
boiling  water  one  hour. 

Cheshire  Pork  Pie. — Two  or  three  pounds  of  lean  fresh 
pork  cut  into  strips  two  inches  long  and  one  wide  ;  an  equal 
weight  of  juicy  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  cut  into  slices. 

Line  a  buttered  dish  with  puff  paste;  put  in  a  layer  of 
pork,  then  of  apples  covered  with  an  ounce  of  white  sug- 
ar, then  pork ;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full, 
seasoning  each  layer  of  pork  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg ;  when  the  dish  is  full  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
cider,  and  stick  bits  of  butter  over  the  top ;  cover  with  a 
thick  lid  of  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  and  bake  for 
an  hour  and  a  half ;  brush  the  top  with  beaten  egg  before 
baking. 

Yorkshire  Pork  Pie. — Make  and  bake  as  above,  omit- 
ting apples,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  and  adding  sage  to  the 
seasoning. 

flopping  John  (Old  Virginia  receipt). — One  pint  of  lady 
pease ;  one  quart  of  rice  ;  one  pound  of  bacon. 

Boil  the  pease  and  bacon  together  until  soft,  then  add 
the  rice,  well  washed  ;  stir  well,  and  boil  until  it  boils  up  ; 
then  pour  off  the  water,  leaving  just  enough  to  cover  it ; 


132  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

cover  and  set  on  a  slow  fire  until  thoroughly  done;  when 
you  pour  the  water  off  add  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  black 
pepper. 

To  Cure  Hams  (Old  Virginia  receipt). — One  hundred 
pounds  of  meat;  six  gallons  of  hot  water;  nine  pounds  of 
salt;  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  three  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, dissolved  alone. 

Put  all  the  pickle  into  a  large  vessel  and  boil  for  half 
an  hour,  skimming  off  the  scum ;  do  not  put  it  on  the  hams 
until  cold ;  then  pour  it  over  so  as  to  saturate  them  thorough- 
ly, and  let  it  remain  a  few  days  ;  after  a  fortnight  or  sixteen 
days  take  the  hams  from  the  pickling  barrel ;  wash  off  the 
pickle,  and  while  wet  dip  'in  bran  ;  when  well  covered 
with  bran  hang  in  the  smoke,  the  hock  end  downward ; 
keep  up  a  good  smoke  for  four  weeks,  having  the  fire  par- 
tially smothered  with  hickory  chips  and  sawdust,  and  be- 
ing careful  not  to  let  the  house  become  hot ;  then  take 
down  the  meat,  brush  off  the  bran,  examine  closely  for  in- 
sects, and  lay  in  the  hot  sun  for  a  day  or  two. 

Hams  may  be  kept  packed  in  slaked  ashes,  in  dry  oats, 
or  in  bran — best  in  slaked  ashes. 

Or,  they  may  be  covered  with  brown  paper,  then  with 
coarse  muslin  stitched  tightly,  and  whitewashed. 

Or,  in  coarse  muslin  coated  with  a  mixture  of  beeswax 
and  rosin. 

Pickled  Pork. — Proceed  as  above ;  but  if  you  do  not 
smoke,  take  the  pork  out  of  the  barrel  at  the  end  of  a  fort- 
night, rub  each  piece  with  salt,  and  return  it  to  the  barrel. 
If  the  liquor  does  not  cover  it  make  fresh  brine,  in  the 
proportion  of  two  pounds  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
saltpetre,  and  a  quart  of  water ;  boil  half  an  hour,  cool, 
and  pour  over  the  pork.  Pork  should,  if  possible,  be  pic- 
kled within  twenty-four  hours  after  butchering. 

Virginia  Bacon. — The  pork  must  be  well  fattened  with 


MEATS— PORK.  133 

corn,  and  not  cut  out  until  the  day  after  it  is  killed ;  salt 
it  thoroughly  with  fine  salt  and  ground  alum  mixed,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  rubbed  well  into  the  hocks  be- 
fore the  salt  is  applied;  lay  it  carefully  in  tubs,  with  the 
skin  down,  for  four  weeks ;  at  the  end  of  that  time  hang 
up  the  middlings,  joints,  and  chines;  have  the  bones  and 
shoulders  covered  with  nicely  burned  hickory  ashes  well 
sifted ;  let  them  lie  two  weeks,  then  hang  up  with  the 
hocks  down  ;  keep  up  a  smoke  (not  lire)  as  directed  for 
hams.  Be  careful  not  to  let  one  piece  touch  another  in 
hanging. 

Towards  the  spring,  when  the  weather  is  warm  and 
damp,  put  in  just  wood  enough  to  keep  alive,  and  at  least 
once  a  day  a  good  deal  of  tobacco  and  red  pepper.  This 
is  necessary,  as  it  destroys  all  flies  and  insects.  It  is  best, 
occasionally,  to  have  a  smoke  of  that  sort  all  the  spring. 
Your  meathouse  must  be  dry,  and  have  air-holes  bored 
high  up  in  the  gable  ends,  or  a  lattice  door  you  can  lock, 
opening  the  close  door  in  fine  weather.  Kill  the  hogs  on 
the  increase  of  the  moon.  By  following  these  directions 
you  are  sure  to  have  good  bacon. 

Never  salt  pork  in  whiskey  barrels ;  molasses  barrels  are 
best. 

Virginia  Sausage  Meat,  No.  1. — One  bushel  of  meat, 
chopped  very  fine;  one  teacupful  of  red  pepper;  one  tea- 
cupful  of  black;  one  teacupful  of  sugar;  two  teacupfuls 
of  sage  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre  ;  salt  to  taste — all 
powdered  fine. 

Mix  all  well  together,  taste,  and  add  what  seasoning 
seems  desirable. 

Virginia  Sausage  Meat,  No.  2. — Pick  the  sausage  meat 
to  get  out  all  the  pieces  of  bone  and  string;  wash  it  in 
lukewarm  water  and  lay  it  on  a  table  to  drain  ;  let  it  stand 
all  night ;  take  off  some  of  the  fat  from  the  backbone  to 
mix  with  the  lean;  chop  fine,  and  season  as  above;  pack 


134  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

in  a  close  vessel.  If  you  wish  to  stuff  them,  use  some 
nicely  cleaned  chitterlings  which  have  been  kept  in  salt 
and  water  ten  days  or  a  fortnight ;  stuff,  hang  on  sticks, 
and  dry.  A  little  smoke  improves  them  ;  too  much  makes 
them  bitter. 

Sausage,  No.  3. — Two  pounds  of  lean  pork ;  two  pounds 
of  veal ;  two  pounds  of  beef  suet ;  peel  of  half  a  lemon ; 
one  grated  nutmeg ;  one  teaspoonf  nl  of  black  pepper ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar;  five  teaspoonf uls  of  salt; 
three  teaspoonf nls  of  sweet  marjoram  and  thyme  mixed ; 
juice  of  a  lemon. 

Stuff  in  cases.     This  is  very  good. 

Sausage,  No.  4. — Six  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork ;  three 
pounds  of  fat ;  one  grated  nutmeg ;  twelve  teaspoonfuls 
of  powdered  sage ;  six  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  six  teaspoon- 
fuls of  black  pepper ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cloves. 

Grind  the  meat  in  a  sausage-mill,  mix  in  the  seasoning, 
and  pack  in  stone  jars,  pouring  melted  lard  on  top. 

Bologna  Sausage.  —  Two  pounds  of  lean  veal;  two 
pounds  of  pork ;  two  pounds  of  beef ;  two  pounds  of  fat, 
unsmoked,  salt  pork ;  one  pound  of  beef  suet ;  four  spoon- 
fuls of  savory,  thyme,  parsley,  and  marjoram  ;  one  grated 
nutmeg ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
black  pepper,  and  the  same  of  red ;  one  minced  onion ; 
salt  to  taste. 

Grind,  mix  well,  season,  and  stuff  into  Beef  skins;  tie 
them  up,  prick  each  skin  in  several  places,  put  on  the  fire 
in  hot  water,  and  heat  gradually  to  boiling-point;  boil 
slowly  one  hour ;  take  out  the  skins  and  lay  on  fresh,  clean 
straw  or  hay,  in  the  sun,  to  dry ;  rub  the  outside  of  the 
skins  with  melted  butter  or  fine  olive-oil,  then  with  pep- 
per, and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  properly  made  and 
hung  this  sausage  will  keep  two  or  three  weeks. 


MEATS— FORK.  135 

Soused  Pig's  Feet — Take  young  and  tender  feet,  cover 
with  water,  and  boil  very  slowly ;  when  boiled  almost 
to  rags  take  them  from  the  fire  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over  them ;  set  them  away  to  cool,  and  when  cold  remove 
the  grease  from  the  top  and  the  bones ;  take  them  from 
the  liquor,  and  add  to  the  liquor  an  equal  quantity  of 
strong  and  good  vinegar,  also  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  whole  pepper, 
cloves,  and  allspice;  boil,  throw  boiling  hot  water  over 
the  feet,  and  set  away  until  cold. 

Truffled  Pig's  Feet — Clean  the  pig's  feet ;  parboil  them ; 
make  a  stuffing  of  minced  cold  pork  chopped  up  with  salt, 
pepper,  a  grated  eschalot,  a  little  grated  ham,  and  slices  of 
truffles,  any  livers  of  game  or  poultry,  butter,  and  a  glass- 
ful of  white  wine;  let  all  this  simmer  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour  to  bind  the  stuffing ;  drain 
the  pig's  feet,  take  out  the  bones,  stuff  them  with  this 
stuffing,  and  wrap  them  up  in  the  membrane  that  covers 
the  fat  of  pork;  shape  them  well,  and  boil  them. 

Backbone. — Cut  every  joint  apart ;  put  the  backbone 
of  the  pig  in  a  saucepan  ;  fricassee  it  with  onions,  salt, 
and  pepper;  keep  your  saucepan  well  covered;  add  some 
sliced  tomatoes  to  the  fricassee,  and  sauce. 

Lyons  Sausage. — Six  pounds  of  lean  pork ;  three  pounds 
of  tenderloin  beef ;  three  pounds  of  fat  pork ;  ten  ounces 
of  salt ;  one  ounce  of  powdered  pepper ;  one  ounce  of 
whole  black  pepper ;  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  saltpetre. 

Chop  up  in  a  sausage  chopper  the  beef  and  lean  pork ; 
add  the  fat  cut  in  dice,  mix  all  well  together  with  the  sea- 
soning, and  set  aside  twenty-four  hours ;  stuff  this  in  the 
large  intestines  of  the  hog,  well  cleaned  and  scraped ;  make 
into  links,  and  put  them  in  a  deep  earthen  dish  with  salt 
and  saltpetre;  put  some  heavy  weight  on  them  and  leave 
them  eight  days ;  then  hang  them  in  the  chimney  to  smoke 


136  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK.      . 

and  dry  ;  when  sufficiently  smoked  take  them  down,  tight- 
en the  links,  rub  them  well  with  the  lees  of  wine  in  which 
you  have  boiled  thyme,  sage,  and  laurel  leaves ;  dry  them, 
wrap  them  in  paper,  and  pack  them  in  a  box  of  ashes ; 
keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  eat  them  without 
cooking. 

Truffled  Sausage  a  la  Creole. — Six  pounds  of  lean  fresh 
pork ;  three  pounds  of  fat  fresh  pork  ;  six  teaspoonf uls  of 
cayenne  pepper  (powdered) ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered saltpetre;  salt  to  taste;  one  medium-sized  box  of 
truffles,  chopped  in  dice. 

Chop  two  pounds  of  fat  pork  with  six  pounds  of  lean; 
add  salt,  pepper,  and  saltpetre;  chop  your  remaining  pound 
of  fat  into  dice;  chop  the  truffles  in  the  same  manner; 
mix  well  together,  and  stuff  them  into  the  intestines  of 
the  hog ;  smoke  slightly.  Always  broil  them  on  the  grid- 
iron. 

Leg  of  Fresh  Pork  Stuffed  and  Roasted. — Take  a  leg  of 
fresh  pork ;  wash  it  well ;  rub  it  with  salt  and  pepper;  cut 
the  skin  in  squares ;  make  a  stuffing  with  bread  crumbs,  on- 
ions, thyme,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper ;  bind  with  egg ;  make 
incisions  in  the  pork;  stuff  with  this;  roast,  basting  well, 
and  serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 

Smothered  Pig's  Head. — Clean  and  split  a  pig's  head; 
take  out  the  brains,  and  lay  them  aside ;  parboil  the  head 
and  four  feet;  slice  the  liver  and  heart  of  the  pig;  stew 
them  with  slices  of  bacon,  onions,  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  a  little  water;  cut  the  meat  off  of  the  feet,  and 
add ;  pour  all  this  in  the  saucepan  with  the  head ;  cover 
the  saucepan,  and  stew  until  the  head  is  done;  take  it 
out,  dress  it  on  a  flat  dish,  and  lay  around  it  the  slices  of 
liver  and  heart ;  strain  the  gravy,  return  it  to  the  sauce- 
pan ;  throw  in  the  brains  (which  you  have  carefully  pre- 
pared by  washing  through  several  waters) ;  let  them  cook  ; 


MEATS— PORK.  137 

pour  in  a  cup  of  cream ;  let  it  boil  up ;  add  a  lump  of 
butter;  dress  the  brains  around  the  head,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  head. 

Kentucky  Fried  Pig's  Feet. — Clean  the  pig's  feet,  split 
them,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  them  in  sifted 
cornmeal,  and  fry  with  bacon. 

Stuffed  Hog's  Head. — Bone  a  hog's  head ;  take  out  the 
tongue  and  brains;  lay  the  head  and  brains  aside;  slice 
the  tongue  with  equal  parts  of  fat  and  lean  pork ;  let  them 
steep  forty-eight  hours  in  a  marinade  made  of  equal  parts 
of  vinegar  and  water,  with  sliced  onions,  parsley,  savory, 
estragon,  laurel  leaf,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper ; 
strain  these  from  the  marinade  and  chop  them  fine,  add 
the  brains,  and  stuff  your  hog's  head  with  this;  tie  the 
head  tightly  in  a  white  cloth  (floured)  giving  it  a  good 
shape ;  put  it  in  a  deep  saucepan  with  the  trimmings  and 
bones  of  the  head  and  one  or  two  feet ;  cover  it  with  half 
white  wine  and  water;  add  thyme,  laurel  leaf,  parsley, 
cloves,  salt,  and  pepper ;  cook  it  eight  hours  over  a  slow 
fire ;  take  the  head  out,  squeeze  it  hard  to  extract  all  the 
liquor,  remove  the  cloth,  and  serve  cold.  Keep  the  sauce- 
pan well  covered. 

Blood  Pudding. — Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  fresh  fat 
pork ;  three  quarts  of  blood ;  one  pint  of  thick  sweet 
cream ;  blanch  and  chop  two  quarts  of  onions ;  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  eight  ounces  of  lard  ;  remove  the 
fibres  from  the  fat  pork  (choose  that  nearest  the  skin) ; 
cut  it  in  dice,  and  put  this  in  the  saucepan  ;  add  the  blood 
and  cream,  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  spices;  mix 
well ;  taste  to  see  if  sufficiently  seasoned  ;  stuff  this  in 
hog  entrails;  make  it  into  links  ten  inches  long;  prick 
them  with  a  needle  to  prevent  them  from  bursting  in 
cooking ;  have  a  caldron  of  hot  water  on  the  stove,  throw 
in  your  blood  pudding,  and  let  it  cook,  never  letting  i>' 


138  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

boil ;  prick  them  with  a  needle — if  no  blood  comes  out, 
they  are  done;  drain  them,  wipe  them  dry  with  a  towel, 
and  rub  them  over  with  fat  bacon  skin ;  when  cold,  stick 
them  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  broil  them  over  a 
gentle  fire. 

To  make  the  celebrated  Boudin  de  Nancy,  add  an  ap- 
ple marmalade  made  without  sugar. 

Boudin  Blanc. — Peel  and  chop  in  dice  twenty  onions, 
blanch  them  in  boiling  water,  and  drain  them  ;  cook  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  eight  ounces  of  lard  ;  chop  and  pound 
equal  parts  of  fat  fresh  pork  and  roasted  fowl  with  the 
same  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  which  have  been  steeped 
in  cream,  and  squeezed  dry  \  mix  this  with  the  yolks  of 
six  raw  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream ;  pour  all  this  in  the  saucepan  with  the  onions ; 
mix  well  together,  and  stuff  just  as  you  would  blood  pud- 
ding ;  cook  them  in  the  same  manner ;  when  cold,  place 
them  on  the  griddle  on  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  prick 
them  slightly,  and  cook  over  a  gentle  fire. 

Sliced  Ham,  Tomato  Sauce. — Make  a  rich  tomato  sauce, 
with  butter,  onions,  salt,  and  pepper ;  broil  your  imcooked 
slices  of  ham,  and  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve  hot. 

Sliced  Ham  with  Cream  Sauce. — Made  as  above,  sub- 
stituting a  rich  cream  sauce  for  the  tomatoes. 

Pate  of  Pig's  Liver. — Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  pig's 
liver ;  three  pounds  of  fat  salt  bacon ;  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  fat  pork. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  liver,  bacon,  and  fat,  and  mix  in 
all  the  seasoning,  salt,  pepper,  spices,  thyme,  parsley,  chives, 
and  laurel  leaf;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  mould  with  thin 
slices  of  bacon  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  pate,  and  then  alter- 
nate layers  of  bacon  and  pate  till  the  mould  is  filled ; 
cover  with  strips  of  lard  ;  cook  it  three  hours  in  the  stove ; 


MEATS— PORK.  139 

dip  the  mould  in  hot  water  for  a  moment  to  remove  the 
jpdte /  trim  it,  glaze  it,  and  ornament  it  with  bunches  of 
crimped  parsley,  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Ham  Toast. — Grate  your  cold  boiled  ham  ;  season  high- 
ly with  mustard,  salt,  and  plenty  of  cayenne  pepper;  add 
a  little  butter,  mix  well,  and  spread  on  hot  toasted  bread. 


POULTRY. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

All  poultry  should  be  picked  and  drawn  as  soon  as 
killed.  Never  buy  undrawn  poultry  ;  it  may  be  uneatable, 
because  flavored  by  the  foul  contents  of  the  craw  and  in- 
testines. If  you  keep  poultry,  starve  for  twenty-four 
hours  before  killing;  but  even  in  this  case  pick  and  draw 
at  once.  Never  eat  poultry  until  at  least  eight  hours  after 
it  has  been  killed ;  and,  before  stuffing  it,  wash  out  well 
in  at  least  three  waters,  putting  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the 
last.  The  following  receipts  are  available  for  roasting 
on  the  spit,  for  Dutch  ovens,  or  for  baking  in  the  range 
oven. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  ROASTING  GAME  AND  POULTRY  (SOYER). 

Hang  up  the  poultry  about  ten  inches  from  the  fire ; 
let  it  hang  for  ten  minutes  to  set  the  skin  ;  then  press  into 
a  wooden  spoon  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  dripping;  when 
the  skin  is  very  hot,  rub  it  over  with  the  fat  in  the  spoon 
until  all  is  melted  ;  then  draw  it  back  to  about  twelve  inch- 
es. A  good-sized  fowl  will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour ; 
chicken,  twenty  minutes;  middle-sized  game,  one  hour; 
turkey,  fourteen  pounds,  two  hours  and  a  half ;  large  hare, 
one  hour  and  a  half ;  if  very  young,  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  Never  baste  them ;  but,  having  rubbed  them  well 
wTith  butter,  dredge  them  carefully. 

Small  game  should  be  placed  nearer  the  fire, 
Apple  sauce  should  be  served  with  goose ;  currant  or 
grape  jelly  with  hare ;  fried  bread  crumbs  with  grouse ; 
bread  sauce  with  partridge  and  pheasant. 


POULTRY.  141 

Roast  Chicken. — Clean,  wash,  truss,  and  stuff  with  a  rich 
forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  etc. ;  fill 
the  bodies  and  crops  of  the  chickens,  sew  them  up,  and 
roast  an  hour  or  more,,  in  proportion  to  their  size,  follow- 
ing the  directions  given  above. 

Stew  the  giblets  and  necks  in  just  enough  water  to  cov- 
er them ;  and  when  the  fowls  are  removed  to  a  hot  dish, 
add  the  chopped  giblets  and  the  liquor  to  the  gravy  in  the 
dripping-pan  ;  boil  up  once,  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
boil  again,  and  serve  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Boiled  Chicken. — Prepare  precisely  as  above,  baste  up 
in  floured  cloths,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them  well ;  stew  slowly  an  hour  or  more, 
being  guided  by  size  and  toughness  ;  serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Spring  Chicken,  Broiled. — Split  the  chickens  down  the 
back,  and  broil  them  before  the  fire  in  a  folding  wire- 
broiler,  turning  them  frequently ;  dust  them  with  a  little 
flour,  and  baste  them  with  butter;  when  cooked  through 
place  them  on  a  hot  dish,  rub  more  butter  over  them,  and 
serve  hot. 

Fricasseed  Chicken,  Brown. — Cut  up  the  chicken,  fry 
the  pieces  a  light  brown,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
sufficient  gravy,  already  prepared  ;  thicken  the  gravy  with 
butter  and  flour,  and  color  it  with  burned  sugar;  season 
with  mace,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  glassful  of  burned  sherry. 

Fricasseed  Chicken,  White,  No.  1. — Joint  the  chickens, 
and  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for  one  hour ;  then  put 
them  on  to  boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  mace, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  thick- 
ened with  butter  and  flour  rolled  together;  just  before 
serving,  dust  with  roasted  powdered  parsley. 

Fricasseed  Chicken,  White,  No.  2. — Make  a  little  white 


142  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

gravy  with  veal  trimmings,  mace,  onion,  salt,  and  white 
pepper;  when  sufficiently  done,  strain  the  liquor  from  the 
meat,  and  return  it  to  the  saucepan  ;  have  the  chicken  cut 
up  and  place  it  in  this  gravy;  stew  gently  until  it  is  well 
cooked ;  then  thicken  the  gravy  with  well-mixed  butter 
and  flour;  beat  into  a  gill  of  cream  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  pour  it  into  the  saucepan  just  before  taking  it 
from  the  fire. 

Chicken  and  Tomatoes. — Four  small  chickens  cut  in 
pieces;  six  large  tomatoes;  two  onions;  three  large  green 
peppers,  seeds  and  veins  removed ;  small  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs;  a  slice  of  salt  pork  cut  into  dice;  three  cloves;  a 
few  peppercorns ;  half  a  tumblerful  of  white  wine,  and 
one  of  water;  a  large  piece  of  butter;  one  teacupful  of 
rice  well  washed  and  picked. 

Put  all  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  together. 

GMolcen  Pie  (Albany  receipt). — A  tender  young  chick- 
en cut  into  small  pieces ;  put  it  into  a  small  pan  with  a 
little  salt  and  a  blade  of  mace,  and  cover  it  with  water; 
cover  closely  and  cook  until  tender;  line  a  deep  dish  with 
puff  paste,  and  cut  some  squares  of  paste  with  a  jagging- 
iron  ;  when  the  chicken  is  cooked,  put  it  into  the  dish  with 
the  squares  of  paste,  also  a  lump  of  butter,  some  pepper, 
and  a  little  rich  cream ;  add,  also,  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  cooked,  thickened  with  butter  and  flour;  cov- 
er with  paste  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Chicken  Potjpie. — Make  a  fairly  rich  paste  ;  cut  it  into 
long,  broad  strips,  and  line  the  pot  with  it,  placing  them 
like  the  staves  of  a  barrel;  cut  a  large,  tine  chicken  into 
small  pieces,  salt  and  pepper  it,  and  put  it  into  the  pot 
with  a  quarter  of  an  onion  minced  fine,  two  potatoes  sliced 
thinly,  and  some  large,  flat  dumplings  of  rich  paste;  rub 
some  flour  and  butter  together,  stir  in  some  hot  water,  and 
make  the  mixture  smooth  ;   pour  this  over  the  chicken, 


POULTRY.  143 

and  if  it  is  not  enough  to  cover  it  add  a  little  warm  milk 
and  water;  then  turn  the  tops  of  the  crust  lining  the  pot 
over  the  chicken,  and  make  a  lid  of  crust  to  go  over  the 
whole;  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  this  must  be  left  for  the 
gravy  to  bubble  through ;  the  crust  must  be  thick ;  when 
the  pie  is  cooked,  serve  it  on  a  large  dish,  place  the  chick- 
en in  the  middle,  and  arrange  the  pieces  which  lined  the 
pot,  and  ought  to  be  well  browned,  on  the  outside,  putting 
the  softer  crust  and  dumplings  inside. 

Chicken  Pudding. — Four  chickens ;  ten  eggs  beaten 
light ;  one  quart  of  milk  mixed  with  the  eggs ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter  melted,  with  the  eggs;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter  stirred  in  last  of  all. 

Cut  up  the  chickens  in  large  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  a  stick  of  celery,  and 
as  little  water  as  will  cook  them ;  let  them  simmer  until 
tender;  then  take  the  chicken  from  the  water  and  place  it 
in  a  deep  baking-dish  ;  pour  the  batter  over  all  and  bake  it. 

Chicken  Pillau. — One  chicken ;  one  teacupful  of  rice, 
well  washed  and  soaked  for  an  hour ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste ;  one  blade  of  mace. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee ;  let  it  simmer  slow- 
ly with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  when  it  has  cooked 
for  twenty  minutes  add  the  seasoning;  allow  it  to  cook  a 
little  longer,  or  until  quite  tender;  then  take  it  off  the 
fire,  drain  the  rice,  and  put  it  in  the  pot  with  about  a  pint 
of  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled ;  salt  it,  and 
let  it  boil  till  nearly  done ;  then  drain  off  most  of  the  liq- 
uor, put  the  chicken  into  the  middle  of  the  rice,  and  stewr 
gently. 

Florida  Pillau.  —  One  fat  chicken  cut  up  in  small 
pieces;  one  onion;  one  clove  of  garlic;  five  tomatoes; 
one  piece  of  pork. 

Fry  all  the  above  ingredients  lightly  in  butter;  then 


144  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

put  into  a  pot  a  pint  of  rice,  water  enough  to  cover  it,  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice,  the  chicken,  pork,  and  veg- 
etables, and  cook  all  slowly  together ;  when  the  rice  is  suf- 
ficiently cooked,  put  the  pot  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  sim- 
mer gently  until  it  is  time  to  serve  it. 

Baked  Pillaa.  —  Two  boiled  fowls  cut  up  in  small 
pieces.  Reserve  a  part  of  the  water  in  which  the  fowls 
have  been  cooked  in  which  to  boil  the  rice,  keeping  the  rest 
to  add  afterwards ;  when  the  rice  is  done  mix  it  with  but- 
ter, lay  one  half  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  lay  the  fowls 
upon  it,  and  put  the  other  half  of  the  rice  on  top,  add- 
ing the  remainder  of  the  liquor ;  then  spread  over  all  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Pressed  Chicken. — Put  a  fowl  into  a  porcelain-lined  ket- 
tle with  salt,  a  few  whole  cloves  and  whole  allspice,  but  no 
water ;  cook  two  hours  or  more  a  bain-marie  /  then  remove 
the  skin  and  bones,  chop  the  dark  and  light  meat  together, 
and  place  them  in  a  dish  ;  pour  over  it  the  strained  liquor 
which  remained  in  the  kettle ;  let  it  cool,  then  fold  it  tight- 
ly in  a  cloth,  and  press  with  a  heavy  weight ;  slice  and 
serve  cold. 

Fried  Chicken. — Cut  the  chickens  in  pieces,  and  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  dust  of  meal ;  then  frj 
them  in  butter,  lay  them  on  paper,  and  cover  them  to  keep 
them  warm ;  then  pour  the  grease  out  of  the  frying-pan, 
and  put  into  it  a  teacupful  of  cream,  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  a  saltspoonful  of  flour,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  mixed  together;  let  these  simmer  to- 
gether a  few  minutes;  place  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  one  or  two  chickens. in  small  pieces; 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water,  pepper,  salt,  a 


POULTKY.  145 

blade  of  mace,  and  a  stick  of  celery ;  cover  closely,  and  let 
the  chicken  simmer  slowly,  turning  it  often  ;  when  nearly 
cooked  take  the  chicken  out  of  the  water ;  skim  the  water, 
and  stir  in  a  thickening  of  flour  mixed  well  with  butter ; 
let  it  thicken  over  the  fire  a  short  time.  In  the  meanwhile 
line  a  deep  baking-dish  with  rich  puff  paste ;  place  the 
chicken  in  it,  together  with  some  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
slices,  and  the  giblets ;  add  the  liquor  from  the  saucepan, 
cover  the  dish  with,  paste,  and  bake  just  long  enough  to 
bake  the  crust. 

Chicken  Breasts  (Florentine  fashion). — Take  the  breasts 
of  several  chickens  together  with  the  white  meat ;  prepare 
the  breasts  by  trimming  each  one  into  the  shape  of  a  cut- 
let ;  then  make  a  mince  of  chicken  breasts,  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  some  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs ; 
pound  this  mince  to  a  paste  in  the  mortar,  and  then  press 
it  through  a  colander;  add  enough  rich,  fresh  cream  to 
bind  all  together ;  flavor  with  a  tiny  pinch  of  nutmeg,  a 
coffeespoonful  of  roasted  powdered  parsley,  and  two  drops 
of  essence  of  celery,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  with  a 
broad-bladed  silver  or  wooden  knife  spread  the  mince 
smoothly,  thickly,  and  evenly  upon  the  chicken  breasts ; 
it  should  be  fully  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  equal 
quantities  of  tongue  and  ham  cut  into  tiny  rounds  and 
lozenges ;  dot  the  chicken  breasts  with  these  ;  arrange  the 
chicken  breasts  in  a  large  stewpan,  so  disposing  them  as 
to  leave  a  small  space  between  each  one ;  put  in  a  liberal 
lump  of  fresh  butter,  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  an 
hour;  when  the  butter  has  been  absorbed  add  enough 
broth  to  keep  the  chicken  breasts  from  burning.  This  is 
a  favorite  dish  all  through  Italy,  where  it  is  possible  to 
buy  the  breasts  of  a  chicken  in  market  without  buying 
the  whole  chicken.  I  can  vouch  for  the  dish  as  being  a 
delicious  and  pretty  entree. 

/Stewed  Chicken  with  White  Stuffing. — Pick,  draw,  and 

7 


146  THE   UNKIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

wash  the  chicken  in  three  waters,  adding  a  little  soda  to 
the  last  but  one.  Prepare  the  stuffing  as  follows :  Boil  a 
quart  of  good  milk  with  two  sticks  of  celery,  a  little  thyme, 
laurel,  basil,  and  coriander  seeds  until  it  is  reduced  to  one 
half ;  strain,  and  add  two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs ;  re- 
place the  casserole  on  the  lire,  and  keep  it  there  until 
the  milk  has  absorbed  all  the  bread ;  then  remove  it  from 
the  fire,  add  more  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
twelve  almonds  blanched  and  powdered  to  a  paste,  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg,  and  the  yolks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs ;  mix 
well  and  smoothly  together;  then  stuff  the  chicken,  sew 
it  up,  cover  it  closely  and  carefully  with  sliced  ham,  and 
stew  in  milk  until  tender;  serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

Capon  with  Truffles. — When  the  capon  is  picked,  singed, 
drawn,  and  cleaned  ready  for  roasting,  peel  and  scrape  clean 
some  truffles,  and  scald  them  in  boiling  melted  butter, 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  fill  the  capon  entirely  with 
the  truffles  so  prepared  ;  sew  up  the  opening,  and  envelope 
the  capon  carefully  and  thoroughly  in  white  paper,  but- 
tered, and  put  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  for  two  days  or  less, 
if  the  weather  be  warm  ;  then  roast  it  in  freshly  buttered 
paper.  When  the  capon  is  nearly  cooked  the  paper  should 
be  removed,  and  the  capon  basted  with  butter  until  it  as- 
sumes a  fine  brown  color. 

Capon  with  Malaga  Wine. — Prepare  a  capon  as  above, 
substituting,  however,  a  simple  ordinary  stuffing  for  the 
truffles.  When  the  two  days  have  expired,  put  the  capon 
in  a  casserole  with  some  fried  onions  and  ham ;  add 
half  a  bottlef  ul  of  Malaga  wine,  cover  the  top  of  the  casserole 
with  buttered  paper,  and  again  with  a  casserole  cover; 
cook,  the  capon  over  a  slow  fire,  and  serve  it  with  the  sauce 
in  which  it  has  been  cooked,  which  should  be  strained  to 
free  it  from  grease,  and  thickened  either  with  browned 
bread  crumbs  or  with  pounded  chestnuts.  A  handful  of 
finely  sliced  truffles  is  a  great  improvement  to  this  sauce. 


POULTRY.  147 

Capon  a  la  Crime. — Take  a  roasted  capon  and  remove 
the  breast,  which  pound  to  a  pulp  in  a  mortar ;  add  to 
this  some  bread  crumbs  which  have  been  boiled  in  milk 
until  quite  soft,  and  which  should  be  smoothly  mixed 
with  the  capon  breast;  add  also  about  half  a  pound  of 
beef  suet,  some  cold  ham  finely  minced,  a  small  shallot, 
some  grated  parsley,  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
two  truffles  sliced  finely,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  add 
enough  good  fresh  cream  to  bind  all  together;  stuff  the 
capon  with  this,  and  re-form  the  breasts,  glazing  the  capon 
with  beaten  white  of  eggs,  and  covering  it  thickly  with 
lightly  browned  bread  crumbs ;  then  place  the  capon  in 
a  covered  casserole,  enveloping  it  with  thin  slices  of  ham. 
It  should  cook  until  thoroughly  heated  through  and 
through.     Then  place  on  a  very  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Roast  Buck  Stuffed  with  Celery. — Clean,  wash,  and  wipe 
the  ducks  very  carefully.  To  the  usual  dressing  add  one 
half  the  quantity  of  stewed  celery,  and  a  minced  shallot. 
Stuff  and  sew  up  as  usual,  reserving  the  giblets  for  the 
gravy.  If  tender,  the  ducks  will  not  require  more  than  an 
hour  to  roast.  They  should  be  well  basted.  Skim  the 
gravy  before  putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The 
giblets  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  then  chopped 
fine,  and  added  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a 
chopped  shallot,  and  a  spoonful  of  brown  flour.  Accom- 
pany with  currant  or  grape  jelly. 

Salted  Ducks  (Italian  monastery). — The  ducks  should 
be  drawn  as  soon  as  possible  after  being  killed,  the  inside 
thoroughly  washed  through  four  waters,  third  wash  being 
given  with  soda  water,  the  last  with  fresh  cold  water.  They 
should  then  be  picked,  singed,  and  hung  up  for  two  days. 
The  legs,  wings,  breast,  and  the  fleshy  part  of  the  stomach 
should  then  be  neatl}T  cut  off,  thoroughly  covered  with 
salt,  and  placed  in  an  earthenware  vessel,  taking  care  to 
exclude  the  air  by  a  thick  layer  of  salt.     Let  them  remain 


148  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

thus  for  fifteen  days,  then  rinse  in  cold  water,  afterwards  in 
vinegar,  then  stick  the  pieces  of  duck  rather  thickly  with 
cloves ;  sprinkle  them  with  celery  seed  and  sweet  herbs, 
among  which  should  be  some  laurel  leaves ;  a  very  little 
nitre  should  also  be  sprinkled  over  them  in  order  to  give 
the  flesh  a  bright  red  color.  They  should  then  be  placed 
in  jars,  and  covered  with  brine.  On  top  of  the  brine  pour 
olive-oil.     The  oil  should  be  about  an  inch  deep. 

Roast  Goose. — Clean  and  wash  the  goose,  putting  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  into  the  last  water  but  one ;  stuff  with 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
a  large  onion  chopped  line,  a  large  roast  apple  ditto,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  sage,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  some 
tiny  dice  of  fat  pork;  stuff  body  and  craw,  and  sew  up. 
If  the  fire  be  clear  and  fierce,  and  the  goose  a  large  one,  it 
will  take  fully  two  hours  to  roast.  Cover  the  breast  until 
half  done  with  buttered  paper,  or  a  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
removing  this  when  you  are  ready  to  brown ;  make  a 
gravy  as  for  roast  duck,  adding  a  glassful  of  old  port,  if  pos- 
sible, and  send  to  the  table  with  apple  sauce. 

Roast  Guinea  Fowls. — Pick,  clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as 
you  would  chickens,  adding  to  the  stuffing  a  little  minced 
ham.  Roast  as  you  would  chickens, basting  liberally  with 
butter.  Season  the  gravy  with  a  chopped  shallot,  and  with 
summer  savory ;  add  the  giblets,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour. 

Goose  Pie. — An  old  goose  stewed  for  jive  hours  or 
more ;  a  smoked  beef's  tongue  parboiled  ;  six  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Put  on  the  goose  in  just  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  stew  slowly  and  steadily,  adding  water,  if  needed, 
from  the  boiling  kettle ;  when  cooked,  cut  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones;  lay  the  bones  and  skin  aside,  chop  the 
giblets;  line  a  deep  pudding-dish  with  good  paste,  lay  in 


POULTRY.  149 

the  pieces  of  goose,  the  chopped  giblets,  the  sliced  tongue 
and  egg,  in  consecutive  layers ;  intersperse  with  strips  of 
paste,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  pro- 
ceed in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full ;  add  the  gravy 
in  which  the  goose  was  stewed,  thickened  with  browned 
flour;  cover  with  thick  paste,  and  brush  the  top  with 
beaten  white  of  egg. 

Poast  Pigeons. — Pick,  draw,  clean,  and  stuff  as  you 
would  chickens;  lay  them  in  rows,  with  a  little  water 
poured  into  the  pan,  to  prevent  their  scorching.  Unless 
they  are  very  fat,  baste  with  butter  until  they  are  half 
done,  then  with  their  own  gravy.  When  cooked,  thicken 
the  gravy  that  drips  from  them,  and  boil  up  once,  then 
pour  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Broiled  Pi-geons  or  Squabs. — Pick,  clean,  wash,  and  dry 
carefully  with  a  clean  cloth  ;  then  split  .down  the  back,  and 
broil  like  chickens  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  but- 
ter liberally  while  dishing  them. 

Pigeon  Pie. — Clean,  wash,  truss,  and  stuff  them  ;  loosen 
the  joints  with  a  knife,  parboil  them  for  ten  minutes  while 
you  prepare  a  puff  paste ;  line  a  deep  dish  with  this,  put 
in  the  bottom  some  shreds  of  lean  ham,  them  some  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  sliced,  buttered,  and  peppered,  then  the  birds 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  minced  parsley ;  squeeze  some 
lemon  juice  upon  them,  and  lay  upon  the  breast  pieces  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  cover  with  slices  of  eggs,  then  with 
shred  ham  ;  pour  in  some  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  pigeons 
were  parboiled,  and  cover  with  paste,  leaving  a  hole  in  the 
lid  ;  bake  an  hour.     This  pie  is  best  made  of  wild  pigeons. 

Boned  Pigeons. — Take  four  good-sized  pigeons  ;  draw, 
wash,  and  bone  them,  then  fill  with  the  following  stuffing: 
One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham,  one  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  tongue,  one  half  pound  of  chicken  breast,  or  the  white 


150  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

meat  of  a  chicken,  two  ounces  of  truffles,  the  yolk  of  two 
eggs,  some  bread  crumb  soaked  in  beef  broth,  a  few  drops  of 
essence  of  celery,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  roasted  powdered  parsley, 
the  grated  rind  of  one  quarter  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  chop  all  the  in- 
gredients finely,  then  mix  well  together  and  press  through 
a  colander ;  stuff  the  pigeons  as  full  as  possible ;  bind 
them  firmly  and  securely  with  clean  twine,  and  arrange 
them  side  by  side  in  a  stewpan,  putting  in  a  liberal  lump 
of  butter;  cover  the  stewpan  closely,  and  let  them  cook 
over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour.  The  cook  should  uncover 
the  casserole  from  time  to  time,  in  order  to  see  when  the 
butter  is  absorbed,  at  which  point  some  good  broth  should 
be  added,  in  order  to  prevent  the  pigeons  from  burning. 
Serve  cold.     (Excellent) 

Stewed  Ditch. — Clean  and  divide  as  for  fricassee.  Put 
into  a  saucepan  with  several  slices  of  lean  cold  ham  or 
salt  pork,  minced  fine,  and  stew  slowly,  closely  eovered^for 
an  hour ;  then  stir  in  a  large  chopped  onion,  half  a  tea- 
spoonf nl  of  powdered  sage,  as  much  parsley,  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  catsup,  and  black  pepper;  stew  until  tender,  then  add  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  browned 
flour,  mixed  with  cold  water;  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a 
deep  covered  dish,  with  green  pease  as  an  accompaniment. 

Stewed  Pigeons.  —  Pick,  draw,  clean,  and  stuff  as  for 
roasting.  Put  the  pigeons  into  a  deep  pot  with  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  put  in  a  little  ham  cut  into  strips,  and  stew  until, 
testing  with  a  fork,  you  find  them  tender;  then  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  sweet 
marjoram,  and  a  good  piece  of  butter;  let  them  simmer 
for  five  minutes  longer,  then  stir  in  a  teaspoonfnl  of 
browned  flour;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  take  out  the 
pigeons,  remove  the  strings,  and  put  into  a  deep  dish, 
pouring  the  hot  gravy  over  them. 


POULTRY.  151 

Boast  Turkey. — The  turkey  should  be  young  and  plump. 
It  should  be  roasted  on  the  spit,  or  before  the  fire  in  a 
roaster,  and  frequently  basted.  The  body  and  craw  should 
be  stuffed  with  bread  stuffing,  or  with  equal  quantities 
of  boiled  chestnuts  and  ham,  chopped  fine,  and  duly 
seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  or  with  a  bread 
stuffing  mixed  with  lightly  fried  and  finely  chopped  sau- 
sages. It  should  be  basted  frequently.  The  gravy  must 
be  made  in  a  saucepan,  from  the  drippings  in  the  roaster, 
carefully  skimming  the  fat.  Chop  up  the  liver  as  finely  as 
possible,  and  add  it  to  the  gravy.  The  time  required  for 
cooking  must  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  bird ;  serve  on 
a  hot  dish,  with  a  wreath  of  water-cresses  round  it.  Cran- 
berry sauce  or  jelly  should  always  accompany  roast  turkey. 

Boast  Turkey  with  Plum-Pudding  Stuffing. — Prepare 
for  roasting  as  above,  and  make  a  stuffing  with  bread 
crumbs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  an  egg  well  beaten  ;  also 
a  teacupful  of  large  Malaga  or  Sultana  raisins,  carefully 
seeded;  mix  well,  but  do  not  wet  the  dressing;  stuff  the 
craw  first,  and  sew  it  up  ;  then  stuff  the  body  of  the  turkey, 
leaving  room  for  the  raisins  to  swell.  Roast  as  above 
directed.  If  the  turkey  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  take  out  the 
dressing,  moisten  it  with  a  little  gravy,  and  serve  it  alone, 
very  hot. 

,  Wild  Turkey  should  always  be  prepared  with  a  chestnut 
stuffing,  to  which  add  much  butter,  as  wild  turkey  is  apt 
to  be  dry  ;  roast  and  baste  as  for  domestic  turkey,  allowing 
one  pound  of  good  butter  for  basting  a  large  wild  turkey. 

Braised  Turkey. — Truss  a  large  turkey  as  for  boiling ; 
stuff  it  with  chestnuts,  rolled  bread  crumbs,  finely  minced 
ham,  and  two  or  three  truffles;  add  sweet  herbs  and  onion 
to  taste,  and  a  little  butter,  as  otherwise  the  dressing  is  apt 
to  be  too  dry  ;  lard  the  breast  of  the  turkey  very  delicately ; 
line  the  bottom  of  a  braising-pan  with  slices  of  bacon  and 


152  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ham ;  lay  the  turkey  on  these,  and  place  more  slices  of 
bacon  and  ham  on  the  top  of  it;  put  in  two  carrots  and 
two  onions  cut  in  slices,  and  sweet  herbs,  parsley,  bay  leaf, 
a  clove  of  garlic,  and  whole  pepper;  salt  to  taste,  and 
moisten  with  some  good  strong  stock  and  a  tumblerful  of 
sherry ;  lay  a  round  of  buttered  paper  on  top,  put  on  the 
lid,  and  braise  with  a  moderate  lire  under  and  over  for 
four  hours ;  serve  with  the  gravy  strained,  and  freed  from 
excess  of  fat. 

Pressed  Turkey  in  Jelly. — Take  a  large,  tender  turkey  ; 
make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped  pork  fat,  a 
minced  onion,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stuff  the  craw  and  inside 
of  the  turkey  as  full  as  possible,  and  sew  them  up  ;  put  it 
in  a  pot  just  large  enough  to  hold  it,  with  one  pound  of 
lean  beef,  shredded  fine, two  calves' feet,  and  salt  to  taste; 
let  it  simmer  slowly  for  several  hours,  keeping  the  lid  of 
the  pot  on,  and  adding  boiling  water,  if  the  turkey  should 
not  continue  covered;  when  the  turkey  appears  thoroughly 
cooked,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  put  it  away  to  cool ;  let  the 
stock  cook  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones  of  the 
calves'  feet;  then  set  it  away  to  cool;  in  the  morning  re- 
move the  fat,  and  put  it  (the  stock)  on  the  fire,  in  a  kettle 
perfectly  free  from  grease;  if  the  stock  be  not  firmly  jellied, 
add  enough  gelatine  to  stiffen  it ;  add  also  salt  to  taste,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  the  whites 
of  two  or  three  eggs  to  clear  it ;  if  the  jelly  is  too  light  in 
color,  add  a  little  caramel  coloring,  and  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice.  Cut  the  turkey  into  small  pieces,  about  two 
inches  long ;  have  ready  some  cold  smoked  tongue  or  ham, 
minced  fine,  and  mix  this  evenly  with  the  stuffing;  then 
pack  the  turkey  in  alternate  layers  of  turkey  and  stuffing, 
in  a  tall,  wide  stone  pot ;  when  all  is  in,  pour  the  hot  jelly 
slowly  over  it,  allowing  it  to  run  well  through  the  whole ; 
put  the  pot  in  a  very  cold  place,  and  take  out  the  turkey 
when  needed,  after  the  jelly  has  become  hard;  serve  with 
capers  or  tiny  pickled  peppers. 


POULTRY.  153 

Turkey  alia  Triestdna. —  Prepare  the  turkey  as  for 
roasting,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  some  pieces  of 
fat  bacon,  an  onion,  sliced,  a  carrot,  and  some  celery,  all 
chopped  line;  add  also  two  calves'  feet,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  the  liver,  etc.,  of  the  turkey;  let  all  fry  until  of 
a  light  brown  color,  then  pour  in  enough  broth  to  almost 
cover  the  turkey,  and  a  liqueurglassful  of  the  very  finest 
old  brandy ;  cover  the  casserole  hermetically,  and  let  it  cook 
over  a  slow  fire  until  done ;  then  serve  in  the  sauce  in 
which  it  has  been  cooked,  which  should  be  strained  to  free 
it  from  fat.  A  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup  is  a  great 
improvement  to  this  sauce.  It  should  be  added  just  be- 
fore sending  it  to  table. 

Jellied  Turkey. — Take  a  large,  fine  turkey,  pick,  singe, 
draw,  and  clean  it ;  lard  it  with  ham ;  then  wrap  it  com- 
pletely in  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  veal,  and  sprinkle  over 
it  a  little  fried  onion  chopped  fine,  and  several  pieces  of 
lemon  freed  from  rind  and  seed ;  place  it  in  a  casserole 
and  pour  in  enough  bouillon  and  white  wine  to  almost 
cover  it  in  the  proportion  of  two  thirds  bouillon  to  one 
third  white  wine;  cover  the  casserole  hermetically,  if  pos- 
sible, and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  four  hours ;  then  put 
the  turkey  on  a  dish  and  proceed  to  strain  the  broth  in 
which  it  has  cooked.  If  the  broth  should  not  be  thick 
enough  to  jelly,  return  it  to  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes; 
in  order  to  clear  it  throw  in  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg 
while  the  broth  is  cooling;  then  replace  it  on  the  fire, 
allow  it  to  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  strain  it  through  a 
cloth ;  when  it  begins  to  cool  pour  it  slowly  and  care- 
fully over  the  turkey,  taking  care  to  do  this  so  evenly  that 
the  turkey  may  be  thoroughly  encased  in  the  jelly  ;  serve 
cold,  garnishing  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  celery. 

Roast  Duck  icith  Olives. — Prepare  the  duck  as  for 
roasting,  and  fill  it  completely  with  large  Spanish  olives 
carefully  stoned ;  then  sew  up  the  opening,  put  the  duck 

7* 


154  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

on  the  spit,  or  in  the  oven,  and  roast  as  usual.  If  tender, 
the  duck  will  not  require  more  than  an  hour  to  roast  It 
should  he  well  basted.  Roast  duck  with  olives  is  gener- 
ally best  cold. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Stuff  with  a  bread  stuffing  in  the  body 
and  craw ;  tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body  be- 
fore putting  it  into  the  pot ;  when  the  flesh  begins  to 
crack  open  about  the  legs  it  will  be  cooked  enough  ;  serve 
with  a  rich  oyster  or  equally  rich  celery  sauce. 

Imitation  Boned  Ttirkey. — Take  a  large,  fine  turkey; 
stuff  the  inside  and  craw  with  a  rich  forcemeat;  take 
care  to  bind  the  legs  and  wings  so  tightly  to  the  body  as 
almost  to  imbed  them  in  it,  making  the  outside  as  nearly 
as  possible  a  plain  surface ;  simmer  it  gently  until  ten- 
der, in  as  little  water  as  will  cook  it,  turning  it  often ; 
have  prepared  a  rich  meat  jelly,  clear  and  well  flavored ; 
place  the  turkey,  breast  downwards,  in  a  deep  oval  vessel, 
and  pour  the  jelly  over  it;  set  it  in  a  cold  place;  when 
quite  cold,  set  the  vessel  an  instant  in  hot  water  to  turn 
out  the  jelly,  then  dish  ;  place  some  fragments  of  jelly  on 
the  top,  with  a  sprig  of  curled  parsley. 

Boned  Turkey. — Cut  off  the  neck  and  claws,  remove 
the  drumsticks,  and  leave  the  wings,  which  must  be  care- 
fully boned ;  then  put  the  turkey  on  a  clean  cloth,  cut 
open  the  back,  and  very  carefully  remove  all  the  bones, 
taking  care  also  not  to  spoil  or  gash  the  skin ;  then,  with 
a  larding  needle,  carefully  lard  the  breast  of  the  turkey 
and  whatever  other  part  admits  of  larding ;  make  a  stuff- 
ing of  veal,  fillet  of  beef,  fat  pork  chopped  into  small 
dice,  bread  crumbs  rolled  fine  and  mixed  with  savory 
herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  small  triangular  bits  of 
cold  tongue,  a  few  truffles  sliced  fine,  and  yolks  of  two  or 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  thick  slices;  fill  the  inte- 
rior of  the  turkey  with  alternate  layers  of  this  stuffing  and 


POULTRY.  155 

the  thinnest  possible  slices  of  cold  veal  and  lean  ham; 
when  stuffed  sew  up  the  aperture  carefully,  and  rub  the 
turkey  over  with  lemon  juice ;  do  this  thoroughly,  and 
then  envelop  the  turkey  in  thin  slices  of  ham ;  sew  it 
up  afterwards  in  a  clean  muslin  cloth,  which  should  previ- 
ously have  been  dipped  in  sherry  wine ;  cook  it  for  three 
hours,  proceeding  as  for  turkey  alia  Triestina ;  when 
quite  cold  remove  the  cloth,  and  serve  the  turkey  in  the 
jelly  in  which  it  was  cooked.  This  jelly  should  be  clari- 
fied. 

Devilled  Turkey. — Take  a  cooked  leg  of  turkey;  slash 
it  to  the  bone ;  salt  and  pepper  it  well,  using  both  black 
and  cayenne  ;  mix  some  made  mustard  with  flour,  and 
plaster  it  over  the  leg ;  place  it  on  a  gridiron,  and  boil 
over  a  clear  fire. 

Scalloped  Turkey. — Butter  a  deep  dish,  line  it  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  pnt  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  then  a  layer 
of  cold  turkey  chopped  fine,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
full,  adding  the  stuffing  and  gravy  of  the  turkey ;  then 
beat  together  two  eggs,  add  to  them  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 
milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  rolled  cracker  crumbs; 
spread  thickly  over  the  top  of  the  turkey ;  bake  half  an 
hour,  keeping  it  covered  for  twenty  minutes,  then  remove 
the  cover,  and  brown. 


GAME. 

See  "  General  Directions"  for  Poultry,  page  140. 

To  Preserve  Game  Untainted. — Draw  ;  rinse  thoroughly 
with  soda  and  water,  then  with  pure  cold  water;  wipe 
dry;  put  in  the  cavity  of  each  bird  a  piece  of  charcoal, 
and  rub  the  birds  lightly  with  fine  salt  and  a  very  little 
black  pepper.  Hang  in  a  cool,  dark  place  with  a  clean 
cloth  thrown  over  them. 

Reed  or  Ortolans. — Pluck,  but  do  not  draw,  these  birds ; 
cover  them  with  strips  of  lard,  and  roast  on  skewers. 

Gras  Grasses. — These  little  birds  infest  the  prickly- 
ash  trees  in  July  and  August,  in  the  Southern  States, 
and  are  killed  by  scores  with  mustard-seed  shot;  and 
are  so  fat  that  they  often  burst  in  falling  to  the  ground. 
Pluck,  but  never  draw  them;  wrap  each  one  in  a  vine  leaf 
and  roast  on  skewers. 

Caille  de  Laurier. — These  birds  are  considered  the 
greatest  delicacy  in  the  South,  where  they  fatten  on 
the  seed  of  the  magnolia.  Pluck  and  draw  your  birds, 
put  a  magnolia  seed  in  each  one,  and  roast  on  skewers. 
Cut  slices  of  bread  the  same  size,  toast  carefully,  and 
place  them  in  the  dripping-pan  under  the  birds.  They  re- 
quire only  twenty  minutes  to  cook.  Serve  each  bird  on  a 
slice  of  the  toasted  bread. 

Wild  Ducks  (stewed). — Clean,  draw,  wash,  wipe;  put 


GAME.  157 

in  a  raw  carrot  or  onion,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Then  lay 
in  very  cold  water  half  an  hour;  then  cut  up,  pepper, 
salt,  flour  them,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown ;  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  and  cover  with  a  gravy  made  of  the  giblets, 
necks,  and  some  bits  of  lean  veal ;  add  a  minced  shallot, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper;  cover  closely 
and  stew  until  tender;  take  out  the  duck,  skim  and 
strain  the  gravy,  return  to  the  fire,  and  put  in  a  cup  of 
rich  cream  in  which  an  egg  has  been  beaten,  thicken  witli 
browned  flour,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  wine  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  beaten  in  gradually,  boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  ducks. 

Wild-Pigeon  Pie. — Make  this  precisely  as  you  make 
quail  pie,  except  that  the  pigeons  are  cut  up  and  are  not 
stuffed.  The  gravy  should  be  much  richer,  made  with 
strong  stock  and  thickened  by  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in 
browned  flour. 

Wild  Pucks  (roasted). — Prepare  as  you  prepare  other 
game,  and  roast  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  ac- 
cording to  size. 

Canvas-back  Pucks. — Canvas-back  ducks  must  be  roast- 
ed quickly,  before  a  brisk  fire,  to  keep  the  juices  from 
flowing  out ;  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes  is  the  range 
allowed  to  suit  different  tastes.  They  should  never  be 
stuffed  or  dressed  in  any  way ;  and  are  always  eaten  very 
much  underdone,  so  that  a  rich,  high-colored  blood  will 
follow  the  knife. 

Squabs  in  Clives. — Clean  them  nicely  and  lay  them  in 
salt  and  water ;  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
quarter  of  an  onion,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a 
little  mace,  cloves,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  stew  all  together 
for  half  an  hour;  then  add  the  squabs,  the  olives  stoned, 
and  let  all  stew  slowly  for  an  hour  longer. 


158  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Roast  Wild  Ducks. — Pluck  and  draw  the  duck ;  put  in 
a  little  salt  and  two  sage  leaves.  This  imparts  a  delicious 
flavor.     Roast  on  a  spit,  and  baste  with  melted  butter. 

Teal  Ducks. — These  are  best  broiled.  Pluck,  draw,  and 
split  down  the  back ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  broil  over  a  quick  fire,  and  serve  with  a  little  melted 
butter  in  which  you  have  chopped  parsley  and  a  little 
lemon  juice ;  pour  this  over  at  the  last  moment. 

Duck  with  Olives. — Pluck  and  draw  your  duck  ;  cook 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  half  butter  and  lard ;  pour  this  out ; 
make  a  roux  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  some  fresh  but- 
ter ;  add  some  bouillon,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  soup  bunch ; 
return  your  duck,  and  when  it  is  nearly  done  throw  in 
some  olives  which  you  have  stoned;  let  them  cook  five 
minutes ;  serve  your,  duck  surrounded  by  the  olives  ;  skim 
the  sauce,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Broiled  Game. — Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the  back; 
lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour ;  wipe  carefully ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over 
a  clear,  fierce  fire ;  when  done  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter 
both  sides  well,  and  serve  at  once. 

Salmi  of  Game,  No.  1. — Put  together  for  gravy  all  the 
dressing,  skin,  and  odds  and  ends  of  your  cold  game ;  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  slice  of  ham,  a  minced  shallot,  and 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  pour  on  a  pint  of  strong  broth, 
and  stew,  closely  covered,  for  almost  an  hour;  then  skim 
and  strain,  return  to  the  fire,  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
add  a  soupgon  of  nutmeg,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  a  wine- 
glassful  of  burned  sherry.  Meanwhile  the  game  must 
have  been  neatly  cut  up,  and  placed  in  another  saucepan 
to  heat ;  pour  over  the  sauce,  heat  smoking  hot,  dish,  and 
serve. 


GAME.  159 

Salmi,  No.  2  (Gouffe). — Bone  the  game  and  chop  the 
meat  fine ;  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste ;  when 
pounded  to  a  smooth  paste,  moisten  with  a  little  bouillon ; 
when  it  is  quite  smooth,  press  the  paste  through  a  sieve. 
Meanwhile,  heat  in  a  casserole  a  little  butter,  the  pieces  of 
skin,  dressing,  the  bones,  etc.,  of  the  game ;  add  a  little 
strong  broth,  a  tablespoonful  of  good  red  wine,  two  shal- 
lots, and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  thicken  with  browned 
flour ;  when  it  has  cooked  half  an  hour  add  two  teaspoon- 
f uls  of  olive-oil  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  boil  up  once, 
then  strain  ;  meanwhile  heat  the  paste  ;  when  thoroughly 
heated  place  the  paste  on  croutons  of  fried  bread,  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  serve.  If 
this  salmi  should  be  made  of  partridge,  it  may  be  garnished 
in  December  with  slices  of  bitter  orange. 

Salmi,  Cold,  of  Goose  or  Duck. — This  salmi  should  be 
prepared  at  table.  Carve  the  bird  nicely ;  rub  the  liver 
and  lights  to  a  smooth  paste ;  add  the  cold  gravy,  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  olive-oil,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  work  to  a  smooth  dressing  of  the  consist- 
ency of  mayonnaise,  and  serve  with  the  cold  game. 

Chaudfroid  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Cut  up  the  cold 
game  very  carefully  ;  arrange  it  with  equal  care  on  a 
large,  round  dish,  building  up  the  cold  game  into  a  pyra- 
mid ;  pour  over  all  a  rich  sauce,  which  will  jelly  when 
cold.  Aspic  jelly,  or  clarified  calves'-foot  jelly,  flavored 
with  strong  stock,  are  best  for  this.  Garnish,  when  cold, 
with  sliced  lemon,  curled  lettuce,  etc. 

Salmi  Glace  (or  sauce  chaudfroid). — Make  a  good  sauce 
veloute  /  strain  free  from  grease,  and  add  a  third  of  the 
quantity  of  aspic  jelly ;  put  on  the  fire  and  boil  until  it 
thickens ;  then  remove  the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  strain,  and  set  away 
to  cool;  when  cool,  and  before  it  forms,  spread  it  careful- 


160  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

]j  over  jonr  pieces  of  cold  game,  being  careful  to  cover 
or  ice  them  completely ;  when  cold  arrange  in  a  dish,  and 
garnish  with  pickled  mushrooms. 

Game  Pie. — It  is  well  to  make  this  of  different  kinds  of 
game.  Clean  and  wash  the  birds,  cutting  the  smaller  ones 
in  half,  the  larger  into  four  pieces ;  trim  off  the  inferior 
portions  of  the  birds,  and  put  them  into  the  saucepan  with 
the  giblets,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth  for  six  birds. 
While  this  is  stewing,  make  a  good  puff  paste  and  line,  a 
large  pudding-dish,  reserving  enough  for  a  lid  f ully  half 
an  inch  thick ;  lard  the  breasts  of  the  birds  with  tiny  bits 
of  salt  pork,  and  make  a  forcemeat  of  the  cooked  livers,  a 
couple  of  slices  of  pork,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  sweet  marjo- 
ram and  thyme,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  tiny  shallot; 
pepper  and  mix  with  rolled  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
milk ;  put  some  thin  strips  of  cold  corned  ham  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pie,  then  some  pieces  of  bird  well  buttered, 
then  a  layer  of  forcemeat,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full ; 
then  strain  the  gravy,  return  to  the  fire,  pepper,  and  add 
a  glassful  of  wine ;  pour  boiling  hot  into  the  pie ;  put  on 
the  lid — cutting  a  hole  in  the  middle — and  bake  three 
hours. 

Jugged  Hare. — Cut  the  hare  in  pieces  and  lay  in  a  stone 
jar;  grate  a  Spanish  onion;  have  ready  a  muslin  bag  with 
all  kinds  of  seasoning— hot  peppers,  sage,  thyme,  and  round 
peppers  ;  put  all  the  blood  in  a  pint-and-a-half  basin,  fill 
up  with  water,  and  mix  as  much  flour  with  this  as  will 
make  it  the  thickness  of  good  cream  ;  put  all  into  the  jar, 
adding  Worcestershire  sauce  and  salt,  a  wineglassful  of 
port  wine,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  and 
half  a  lemon  sliced  fine ;  put  a  plate  on  the  mouth  of  the 
jar,  and  tie  tightly  down  ;  cook  three  hours  a  bain-marie. 

Boast  Ortolans  (Brillat  Savarin). — The  art  of  knowing 
how  to  roast  ortolans  consists  in  the  fact  they  must  never 


GAME.  161 

be  approached  by  salt ;  this  destroys  their  peculiarly  deli- 
cate flavor.  When  they  are  picked,  drawn,  and  cleaned — 
ready  for  roasting — they  should  be  filled  with  fresh,  un- 
salted  butter;  they  should  then  be  tied  in  small,  thick 
slices  of  light,  white  bread  (unsalted  bread  is  best),  and  so 
arranged  on  the  spit,  roasting  over  a  clear,  though  slow, 
fire.  The  cook  should  baste  them  continually  with  a  lit- 
tle fresh  butter,  and  later  with  their  own  dripping ;  a  few 
moments  before  serving  the  bread  should  be  untied  and 
placed  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  the  ortolans  basted  until 
they  assume  a  delicate  brown  color ;  they  should  be  served 
with  the  bread  in  which  they  have  been  roasted. 

Partridge  Pie. — Line  a  deep  dish  with  puff  paste ;  put 
a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  ham  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and 
on  this  a  layer  of  veal,  chopped  finely  and  passed  through 
a  sieve;  then  cut  up  four  partridges ;  season  them  lightly 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  thyme; 
pour  in  a  pint  of  very  good  gravy ;  cover  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake  an  hour;  glaze  the  upper  crust  with  white  of 
egg- 

Roast  Partridge. — Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  }tou  do 
chickens ;  roast  at  a  hot  fire,  and  baste  with  butter  and 
water  until  brown;  sprinkle  with  salt;  dredge  lightly,  at 
the  last,  with  flour  to  froth  the  birds,  and  serve  hot ;  thick- 
en the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  with  browned  flour,  boil 
up  once,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Cream  sauce,  ~No.  2,  is  de- 
licious with  roast  partridge. 

Broiled  Partridge. — Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the 
back  ;  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour ;  wipe  carefully,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire ;  when  done,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  butter 
both  sides  well,  and  serve  at  once. 

Louis's  Perdrix  aux  Chaux.  —  Cut  two  partridges  in 


162  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

quarters ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  lard,  slices 
of  ham,  and  sausage ;  let  them  cook  half  done ;  blanch  a 
fine,  white-head  cabbage  in  boiling  salt  and  water ;  drain 
and  split  in  half ;  cut  out  the  heart  of  the  cabbage,  and 
stuff  the  cabbage  with  the  partridge,  ham,  and  sausage ; 
tie  it  up  tightly  together ;  line  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan 
with  slices  of  onions  and  strips  of  breakfast  bacon  or  ham  ; 
put  your  cabbage  on  this;  cover  your  saucepan  closely, 
and  cook  over  a  gentle  fire  till  done ;  remove  the  strings 
from  the  cabbage ;  serve  with  the  sauce  in  which  it  has 
cooked  poured  over  it. 

Partridge  with  Chestnuts.  —  Pluck,  draw,  and  singe 
your  bird  over  a  quick  blaze  ;  Jard  it  with  fine  strips  of  lard, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  soup-bunch,  strips  of  lard,  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  a  glass- 
ful of  good  bouillon  and  salt,  and  a  little  pepper ;  cook  slow- 
ly and  take  your  bird  out  of  the  saucepan  when  done; 
strain  your  gravy;  have  ready  fifty  good  boiled  chest- 
nuts, peeled ;  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  moisten  them 
with  the  gravy,  pass  them  through  a  colander,  serve  your 
bird  on  the  puree,  always  surrounded  by  fried  croutons. 

Snipe  en  Salmis. — Cut  up  any  cold  roast  snipe;  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  livers  and  entrails  well  chopped ; 
add  chopped  eschalots,  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  salt,  and 
pepper ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  take  out  the  pieces  of 
bird,  lay  them  on  toasted  slices  of  bread  on  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  them  and  serve. 

Grilled  Partridge.  —  Draw,  clean,  and  wash  the  par- 
tridge ;  wipe  dry,  and  split  and  arrange  for  broiling ;  put 
it  into  a  deep  dish  which  has  been  well  rubbed  with 
garlic;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  a  leaf  or  two  of  laurel,  and  some  very  fine  olive- 
oil  ;  leave  it  there  (the  dish  being  well  covered)  for  two 
or  three  hours;   then  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over 


GAME.  163 

a  clear  fire,  turning  often;  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish, 
squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  it,  surround  with  a 
wreath  of  water-cresses,  dotted  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Partridge  Breaded  and  Broiled. — Prepare  as  above, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  bread  crumbs ;  broil  as 
above,  and  serve  with  sauce  poivrade. 

Partridge  or  oilier  Cold  Game  in  Mayonnaise. — Cut 
up  the  cold  game  nicely,  and  place  on  a  bed  of  mayon- 
naise sauce ;  pour  over  some  more  mayonnaise,  so  as  to 
cover  the  game  completely  ;  garnish  with  olives,  truffles, 
pickled  beets,  curled  lettuce,  etc. 

Cold  lamb  is  also  very  good  so  treated. 

Partridge  or  other  Game  with  a  Puree  of  Green  Pease. 
—  Stew  the  partridge  and  serve  on  a  puree  of  green 
pease. 

Quail  Pie. — Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  the  birds,  and  loosen 
the  joints  without  entirely  separating  them  ;  parboil  them 
for  ten  minutes,  meanwhile  lining  a  deep  dish  with  good 
puff  paste  ;  put  in  the  bottom  some  shreds  of  salt  pork  or 
ham  ;  next,  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered  and  pep- 
pered ;  then  the  birds,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  minced 
parsley ;  squeeze  some  lemon  juice  upon  them,  and  lay 
on  them  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  cover  with  slices 
of  egg,  then  with  shredded  ham  ;  pour  in  some  of  the  gravy 
in  which  the  quail  were  boiled,  and  put  on  the  lid,  leaving 
a  hole  in  the  middle ;  bake  over  an  hour. 

Boast  Pheasant  d  le  Brillat  Savarin. — Let  your  bird 
hang  unpicked  until  the  odor  determines  its  proper  condi- 
tion for  cooking.  Pick  and  draw  it ;  lard  it  carefully  with 
fine,  firm  strips  of  lard ;  take  two  snipe,  bone  and  draw 
them ;  take  the  meat,  make  a  stuffing  with  beef  marrow, 
a  little  fat  meat,  salt  and  pepper,  and  enough  truffles 


164  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

chopped  fine  to  fill  the  pheasant;  stuff  your  bird,  and  be 
careful  to  cover  the  opening  with  a  crust  of  bread  and  tie 
it  with  a  thread  to  keep  it  in  place ;  then  take  the  entrails 
and  livers  of  the  snipe  (throwing  away  the  gizzards), 
pound  them  with  two  large  truffles,  an  anchovy,  a  little  fat 
meat,  and  fresh  butter;  prepare  a  slice  of  bread  large 
enough  to  extend  two  inches  beyond  the  bird;  spread  this 
paste  evenly  on  the  bread,  which  you  place  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan, under  the  bird,  on  the  spit,  and  which  receives 
all  the  drippings  from  the  bird ;  when  the  pheasant  is 
cooked,  serve  it  on  the  slice  of  bread,  surround  it  with 
slices  of  sour  orange,  and  pour  over  it  a  wineglassful  of 
good  Burgundy. 

Roast  Pheasant,  English  Style. — When  your  bird  has 
hung  long  enough,  pluck9  draw  it,  and  envelop  it  in  a 
strong,  buttered  paper  and  put  it  on  the  spit;  in  half  an 
hour  remove  the  paper,  to  let  it  brown,  and  watch  it  care- 
fully to  know  when  it  is  done ;  baste  it  with  melted  butter, 
in  which  you  have  poured  a  spoonful  of  good  Madeira ; 
cut  and  trim  eight  little  slices  of  bread  the  same  size ; 
place  them  in  the  dripping-pan ;  serve  your  bird  on  a 
dish  surrounded  by  these  and  alternate  slices  of  lemon.  It 
will  require  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  cook  the  pheas- 
ant. 

Roast  Pheasants. — When  the  pheasant  is  prepared  for 
roasting  it  should  be  carefully  larded  and  stuffed  with 
bread  crumbs,  butter,  a  little  ham  minced  fine,  and  some 
boiled  chestnuts,  cut  into  quarters;  add  also  a  little  pow- 
dered parsley ;  then  fold  the  pheasant  in  white  paper 
carefully  buttered,  put  it  on  the  spit  or  in  the  oven,  and, 
when  almost  cooked,  remove  the  paper  and  brown  the 
pheasant  carefully  ;  serve  with  bread  or  cream  sauce. 

Pheasant  Stewed  in  Malaga  Wine. — Lard  the  pheasant 
with  ham,  and  stuff  it  with  fillet  of  beef  and  boiled  chest- 


GAME.  165 

nuts  in  equal  proportions,  adding  also  some  butter  and 
chicken  liver ;  salt  to  taste ;  then  put  the  pheasant  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  few  onions  fried  in  butter,  some  slices  of  lean 
ham,  and  enough  stock  to  almost  cover  it ;  when  about  half 
cooked  add  a  glassful  of  Malaga  wine  ;  serve  with  the  sauce 
in  which  it  has  been  cooked,  which  should  be  strained 
to  free  it  from  fat,  and  thickened  with  some  pounded 
boiled  chestnuts.  Truffles  may  be  added  with  advan- 
tage. 

Roast  Prairie  Chicken. — Clean  and  truss  your  birds; 
lard  one,  and  cover  the  other  with  strips  of  lard ;  put  a 
cherry  or  peach  leaf  in  each  bird,  to  improve  the  flavor ; 
roast  on  a  spit. 

Chipolata  of  Prairie  Chickens. — Cut  some  fat  pork  in 
dice,  and  fry  it  till  it  begins  to  color ;  set  it  aside ;  make 
a  roux,  cut  your  bird  in  quarters,  and  put  it  in  the  roux 
with  some  bouillon,  or  water  and  white  wine,  mushrooms, 
the  fried  fat  pork,  and  eschalottes  (which  have  been  fried 
in  butter) ;  take  some  sausages,  divide  each  link  in  three 
by  tying  with  a  thread,  heat  them  through  on  the  gridiron, 
untie  the  thread,  and  remove  the  skin ;  add  to  this  some 
roasted  chestnuts  and  a  soup  bunch ;  cook  all  together ; 
skim,  remove  the  soup  bunch,  and  serve  on  a  dish  sur- 
rounded by  fried  croutons. 

Broiled  Quail  or  Woodcock. — Split  down  the  back,  and 
broil  over  a  clear  fire ;  butter  and  salt  when  well  done,  and 
let  them  lie  between  hot  plates  before  sending  them  to 
table. 

Small  snipe  or  other  birds  are  nice  cooked  in  this  way. 

Quails,  Ortolans,  Sora,  Peed  Birds  or  Pail  are  good 
broiled  or  roasted.  In  Virginia  the  cooks  usually  roll  an 
oyster  in  melted  butter,  then  in  pepper  and  salt,  and  put 
it  into  each  bird  before  roasting,  and  baste  with  butter 


166  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

and  water  three  times,  and  then  with  melted  butter.  They 
take  usually  twelve  minutes  to  cook,  and  are  served  on 
toast  prepared  as  above. 

Roast  Quails  Larded. — Clean  and  draw  the  quails,  and 
lard  the  breasts  carefully  with  thin  strips  of  fat  pork; 
stuff  with  a  rich  forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs  prepared  as 
for  grouse ;  sew  up,  truss,  and  roast  on  the  spit  or  in  the 
oven,  basting  with  butter  and  water,  and  then  with  butter. 
Quails  cooked  in  this  way  are  delicious  hot  or  cold. 

Stewed  Hare  or  Rabbit  d  la  Minute  {Cuisiniere  Pari- 
sienne). — Skin,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  a  young  hare ;  cut 
into  pieces  and  put  into  a  pot  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  and 
spices  to  taste;  stew  to  a  fine  brown,  add  mushrooms, 
shallots,  parsley,  all  chopped  fine,  also  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour ;  moisten  with  white  wine  and  a  little  broth ;  when 
it  begins  to  boil  withdraw  from  the  fire,  dish,  and  serve. 

Fried  Rabbit. — Cut  into  joints,  soak  for  an  hour  in  salt 
water,  dry,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  to  a  fine  brown. 

Rabbits  or  Hares  en  Papillotes  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). 
— Take  tender  young  hares  or  rabbits,  skin,  clean,  wash, 
and,  after  cutting  into  small  pieces,  lay  in  salt  water  twen- 
ty minutes;  then  wipe  dry,  and  put  into  a  deep  dish  with 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  chives,  mushrooms,  and  a  tiny 
clove  of  garlic ;  add,  also,  pepper  and  olive-oil ;  leave  the 
rabbits  several  hours  in  this  savory  bath ;  then  wrap  each 
piece  in  a  slice  of  ham, adding, also,  the  seasoning;  fold  up 
carefully  in  buttered  white  paper,  cook  on  a  gridiron  over 
a  slow  fire,  and  serve  in  the  paper. 

Rabbit  Pie. — Cut  a  pair  of  rabbits  into  small  pieces, 
and  soak  in  salted  water  half  an  hour,  and  then  stew  until 
half  done ;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork  into  strips, 


GAME.  167 

and  boil  four  eggs  hard ;  lay  some  bits  of  pork  in  a  hot 
dish,  and  upon  these  a  layer  of  rabbit ;  upon  this  spread 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  peppered  and  buttered;  sprin- 
kle with  a  little  powdered  mace,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  upon  each  piece  of  meat;  proceed  in  this 
order  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  last  layer  being  pork; 
pour  in  the  gravy  in  which  the  rabbits  were  cooked ; 
cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake 
one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top  lest  it  brown  too 
fast. 

Barbecued  Babbit  (Daddy  Jim's). — Take  fat  and  tender 
rabbits;  skin,  clean,  split  open,  and  cut  off  the  heads;  then 
lay  in  salted  water  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  perhaps 
a  little  less ;  wipe  dry  very  carefully,  gash  the  backbone 
across  and  across,  then  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a 
clear,  fierce  fire,  turning  the  rabbit  often  ;  when  brown 
and  tender  lay  on  a  very  hot  dish,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
then  butter  profusely,  turning  the  rabbit  over  and  over  to 
soak  up  the  butter ;  cover,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  min- 
utes, while  you  heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  sea- 
soned with  one  of  made  mustard  ;  moisten  the  hot  rabbit 
well  with  this,  cover,  and  send  to  table  garnished  with 
crisped  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Ragout  of  Rabbit  (Daddy  Jim's). — Skin,  clean,  and  cut 
up  a  fine,  large  rabbit ;  put  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and 
six  ounces  of  fat  pork  in  a  saucepan ;  let  it  heat  through, 
and  stir  in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour;  add  your  pieces  of 
rabbit ;  pour  in  a  bottle  of  red  wine ;  add  spices,  pepper, 
a  soup  bunch,  bay  leaf,  sweet  basil,  an  onion  with  a  clove 
stuck  in  it;  no  salt  for  the  moment;  cook  slowly  for  an 
hour  and  a  quarter ;  stir  it  from  time  to  time  to  keep  it 
from  sticking  to  the  saucepan ;  take  a  pint  of  little  white 
onions,  cook  them  in  butter  a  few  moments  till  they  begin 
to  color  ;  moisten  them  with  a  little  bouillon  ;  add  a  little 
dash  of  sugar  to  glaze  them,  and  set  them  aside  to  serve 


168  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

around  your  ragout ;  while  your  rabbit  is  cooking,  peel 
and  slice  a  quart  of  field  mushrooms,  and  when  the  rabbit 
is  nearly  done  add  these  to  the  ragout ;  take  out  the  on- 
ion and  soup  bunch ;  taste  to  see  if  it  is  seasoned  enough ; 
dress  your  rabbit  on  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the  sauce,  and 
garnish  your  dish  with  the  glazed  onions. 

Our  old  Daddy  Jim  believed  in  stirring  in  at  the  last 
moment  the  rabbit's  blood  with  little  pieces  of  butter; 
add  this  and  stir  continually,  and  it  gives  the  gravy  more 
consistency. 

Broiled  Babbit. — Skin  and  clean  your  rabbit;  split  it 
lengthwise;  flatten  it  with  the  rolling-pin;  wrap  it  in  a 
buttered  paper  and  broil  it  on  the  gridiron;  when  it  is 
done  remove  the  paper,  and  serve  it  with  anchovy  butter. 

Catahoula  Babbit  Stew. — Skin,  clean,  and  cut  up  your 
rabbit;  chop  up  half  a  pound  of  ham ;  put  it  in  a  frying- 
pan  with  two  sliced  onions,  half  a  clove  of  garlic,  mashed, 
salt  and  pepper;  add  your  rabbit;  cook  twenty  minutes 
over  a  quick  fire ;  add  a  glassful  of  good  bouillon,  some 
sliced  mushrooms,  a  glassful  of  white  wine,  and  serve. 

Fricasseed  Babbit. — Prepare  as  above ;  stew  until  very 
tender ;  then  take  out  the  rabbit,  add  to  the  gravy  a  cup 
of  cream,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  thicken  with  flour  wet  in  cold  milk  ;  boil  up  once; 
pour  over  the  rabbits. 

Boast  Babbit. — Skin,  clean,  wash,  and  soak  in  slightly 
salted  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  changing  it  once  dur- 
ing that  time ;  parboil  the  heart  and  liver,  chop  fine,  and 
mix  with  a  slice  of  fat  pork,  also  minced ;  make  a  force- 
meat of  bread  crumbs,  well  seasoned,  and  quite  moist,  us- 
ing the  water  in  which  the  giblets  we,re  boiled  for  this,  and 
working  in  the  minced  meat ;  stuff  the  body  with  this  and 
sew  it  up ;  rub  with  butter  and  roast,  basting  with  butter 


GAME.  169 

and  water  until  the  gravy  flows  freely,  then  with  drip- 
ping ;  roast  for  an  hour ;  dredge  with  flour  a  few  minutes 
before  taking  it  up,  then  froth  with  butter;  serve  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon ; 
add  to  the  gravy  a  little  lemon  juice,  a  chopped  shallot,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  sherry,  and 
thicken  with  browned  flour;  boil  up  once,  and  serve  with 
the  rabbit. 

Rabbits  or  Hares. — They  are  unfit  for  eating  in  the 
early  spring.  All  rabbits  should,  after  being  cleaned,  lie 
in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour  before  cooking. 

Puree  of  Snipe  d  la  Creole  (Madame  Eugene). — Snipe 
should  always  be  kept  four  days,  at  least,  before  cooking. 
Never  pluck  them  until  you  are  ready  to  cook  them.  Hang 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Take  a  dozen  snipe,  pluck 
them  and  draw  them ;  cut  off  all  the  meat,  and  put  it 
aside,  with  the  entrails,  in  a  mortar;  put  the  remains  of 
the  birds  in  a  saucepan  with  bouillon,  parsley,  laurel  leaf, 
a  clove,  and  two  glassf uls  of  white  wine ;  boil  this  till  it 
is  reduced  to  half,  and  strain  it ;  pound  your  birds  and  en- 
trails in  a  mortar  with  three  ounces  of  fat  pork,  moisten 
with  the  above  sauce,  and  pass  this  puree  through  a  col- 
ander ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  let  it  heat  through  without 
boiling,  and  serve  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  fried  crou- 
tons. 

Broiled  Squirrels.  —  Take  gray  squirrels;  skin,  clean, 
wash,  and  soak  in  salted  water  to  draw  out  the  blood ;  wipe 
dry  and  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  hot,  fierce  fire, 
turning  often ;  when  done  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  adding  melt- 
ed butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  cover  closely, 
and  put  in  a  hot  place  for  five  minutes  before  sending 
to  table. 

Ragout  of  Squirrels. — Prepare  and  soak  as  above ;  slice 

8 


170  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

a  tolerably  large  onion  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  stir  into  the  frying-pan  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  broth,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour ;  put  the  squirrels  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  into  strips  ;  add  the  onions 
and  their  gravy,  season  to  taste,  and  put  in  a  cupful  of  te- 
pid water;  cover  and  stew  for  forty  minutes  or  until  ten- 
der, pour  in  a  glassful  of  wine  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lem- 
on, ^hake  well,  and  turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish. 

Brunswick  Stew  ("Common-Sense  in  the  Household"). 
— Two  gray  squirrels,  cleaned,  prepared,  and  soaked  as 
above;  one  quart  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced;  one  pint 
of  lima  beans ;  six  potatoes  parboiled  and  sliced ;  six  ears 
of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob ;  half  a  pound  of  butter ; 
half  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  into  fine  shreds  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  black  pepper;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne;  one  gallon  of  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt; 
two  teaspoonf  uls  of  white  sugar ;  one  onion  minced  smalL 

When  the  squirrels  have  soaked,  put  on  the  water  with 
the  salt  in  it  and  boil  five  minutes  ;  then  put  in  the  onion, 
beans,  corn,  pork,  potatoes,  pepper,  and  squirrels ;  cover 
closely  and  stew  two  and  a  half  hours  very  slowly,  stirring 
frequently  from  the  bottom ;  then  add  the  tomatoes  and 
sugar  and  stew  for  an  hour  longer ;  ten  minutes  before  tak- 
ing the  pot  from  the  fire  put  in  the  butter  rolled  in  browned 
flour;  give  a  final  boil,  and  turn  into  the  soup  tureen. 

Roast  Birds  with  Hasty  Pudding  a  la  Verona. — Clean 
and  truss  the  birds,  put  a  small  bit  of  fresh  butter  in  each, 
and  arrange  them  in  rows,  putting  a  piece  of  bacon  and  a 
sprig  of  laurel  between  each ;  then  put  them  on  the  spit, 
having  first  rubbed  them  over  with  butter;  baste  with 
butter  and  water,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  brown  put 
into  the  dripping-pan  some  thick  squares  of  cold  hasty 
pudding ;  when  the  birds  are  cooked,  put  a  bird  on  each 
square  of  hasty  pudding,  and  serve. 


GAME.  171 

They  can  be  cooked  in  the  oven  if  yon  have  no  spit. 
All  small  birds  are  good  cooked  in  this  way. 

Roast  Snipe,  Plover,  or  other  Small  Birds. — Clean  and 
truss,  and  arrange  in  rows  on  the  spit  or  in  the  dripping- 
pan  ;  baste  with  butter,  and  then  with  butter  and  water ; 
when  they  begin  to  brown  cut  a  round  of  white  bread 
(without  crust),  toast  quickly,  butter,  and  lay  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan ;  when  the  birds  are  done  pour  over  them  the 
gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  serve  on  toast. 

Roast  Woodcock,  No.  1. — If  you  roast  with  the  trail,  clean, 
but  do  not  draw  the  birds,  and  put  the  toast  under  them, 
as  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook,  to  catch  the  trail. 

Roast  Woodcock,  No.  2. — Clean,  draw,  truss,  and  stuff 
with  a  rich  forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs  peppered  and  salt- 
ed, shortened  with  melted  butter,  and  moistened  with 
cream ;  sew  them  up  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and 
water,  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour;  when  half 
done  put  under  them  slices  of  toast  prepared  as  above,  and 
serve  with  the  woodcock. 

Venison. — Good  venison  should  be  of  a  rich,  reddish- 
brown  color,  fine  in  grain,  and  fat. 

Roast  Haunch. — Wash  off  the  outside  with  lukewarm 
water;  then  rub  all  over  with  fresh  butter;  cover  with  a 
thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  then  with  white  paper  well 
buttered,  then  with  thick  foolscap ;  bind  firmly  with  pack- 
thread ;  then  pass  on  the  spit  and  roast,  allowing  five  hours 
if  the  haunch  be  large,  and  the  fire  steady  and  strong ; 
baste  constantly  with  butter  and  water,  at  intervals,  to  pre- 
vent scorching ;  half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  up  remove 
the  papers  and  paste  and  test  the  haunch  with  a  skewer ; 
if  the  skewer  passes  easily  to  the  bone  through  the  thick- 
est part,  set  the  haunch  down  to  a  more  moderate  fire,  and 


172  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

baste  every  few  minutes  with  claret  wine  and  melted  but- 
ter; at  the  last  baste  with  butter,  dredge  with  flour  to 
make  a  light  froth,  and  dish,  putting  a  frill  of  fringed  pa- 
per round  the  knuckle. 

Baked  Haunch. — Cook  precisely  as  above,  putting  a  lit- 
tle water  in  the  dripping-pan  in  which  it  is  baked ;  baste 
as  above. 

Boast  Neck  of  Venison. — Roast  precisely  as  you  do  the 
haunch,  allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound. 

Boast  Shoulder. — This  may  be  roasted  without  the  paste 
and  paper ;  baste  often,  first  with  butter  and  water,  then 
with  claret  and  butter,  taking  care  never  to  allow  it  to 
dry. 

Gravy  for  Boast  Venison. — One  pound  of  scraps  of  raw 
venison  ;  one  quart  of  water ;  one  pinch  of  cloves ;  half  a 
nutmeg  grated ;  peel  of  half  a  lemon  grated  ;  salt  and  cay- 
enne to  taste. 

Stew  slowly  down  to  one  half  the  original  quantity ; 
then  skim,  strain,  and  put  on  the  fire  again  in  a  clean 
saucepan  ;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a 
glassful  of  claret,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  thick- 
en with  browned  flour ;  dish  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Serve  currant  or  grape  jelly  with  venison. 

Stewed  Shoulder  of  Venison. — Bone  the  shoulder,  ex- 
tracting the  bones  on  the  under  side;  stuff  with  a  fine 
mince  of  fat  mutton,  bread  crumbs,  butter,  and  seasoned 
with  a  little  nutmeg,  allspice,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
wine  ;  bind  firmly  with  broad  tape ;  baste  once  with  melt- 
ed butter ;  then  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  venison 
gravy  (made  as  above  directed),  a  glassful  of  port  wine,  a 
few  peppercorns,  and  a  little  celery,  parboiled  and  chopped 
fine  ;  cover  closely  and  stew  until  tender ;  remove  the  tape, 


GAME.  173 

place  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy,  and  pour  over  the 
meat. 

Venison  Cutlets. — These  are  usually  cut  from  venison 
which  is  not  fat  or  juicy  enough  for  roasting.  They 
should  be  carefully  trimmed  and  larded  with  fat  pork ; 
then  lay  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  few  pieces  of  young 
onion  on  each ;  scatter,  also,  a  little  minced  parsley  and 
thyme  between  the  layers  of  meat,  and  pepper  and  nut- 
meg to  taste;  no  salt,  as  the  pork  will  salt  sufficiently; 
pour  over  all  a  plain  venison  gravy — that  is,  a  gravy  made 
as  above,  but  without  wine,  lemon,  currant  jelly,  or  but- 
ter; cover  closely  and  cook  twenty  minutes;  then  take  up 
and  fry  in  just  enough  butter  to  keep  them  from  burning; 
fry  quickly,  turning  the  cutlets  constantly;  then  put  into 
a  hot  chafing-dish  and  pour  over  them  the  gravy  in  which 
they  have  been  cooked  after  you  have  strained  it  and 
added  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  half  a  glassful  of  port  wine,  and  a 
little  browned  flour  for  thickening ;  boil  up  once  and  pour 
over  the  cutlets  ;  cover,  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes 
before  sending  them  to  table. 

Ragout  of  Cold  Venison. — Put  the  bones,  fat,  and  scraps 
of  cold  venison  on  to  stew,  with  a  teacupful  of  cold  water, 
a  button  onion  minced  fine,  parsley  and  thyme,  pepper  and 
salt,  three  or  four  whole  cloves,  and  a  little  mace  ;  stew  for 
an  hour,  then  strain  and  return  to  the  saucepan,  adding 
some  cold  gravy  from  the  roast,  a  tablespoonful  of  currant 
jelly,  one  of  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  and  a  little  browned  flour;  boil  for  three 
minutes,  lay  in  the  venison,  cut  into  small  squares,  and 
heat,  but  do  not  boil,  for  three  minutes;  stir  frequently, 
and  serve  in  a  deep  covered  dish. 

Roast  Fawn. — Clean,  wash  thoroughly,  and  stuff  with 
a  rich  forcemeat  made  of  chopped  pork,  bread  crumbs, 


174  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

pepper  and  salt,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  ;  moisten  with  water  and  cream  ;  bind  with  beaten 
egg  and  melted  butter;  sew  up  the  fawn  when  stuffed, 
turning  the  legs  under  and  binding  close  to  the  body ;  cov- 
er with  thin  slices  of  pork  bound  on  with  packthread,  cross- 
ing in  every  direction  ;  roast  at  a  quick  fire,  allowing  twen- 
ty-two minutes  to  a  pound;  twenty  minutes  before  serv- 
ing remove  the  pork  and  allow  the  fawn  to  brown,  basting 
with  melted  butter;  at  the  last  dredge  with  flour,  let  this 
brown,  froth  with  butter,  and  serve;  garnish  with  water- 
cresses  or  curled  parsley,  and  serve  with  currant  or  grape 

.ielly- 

Kids,  hares,  or  rabbits  may  be  roasted  in  the  same 
way. 

Venison  Ham. — Rub  the  hams  with  equal  parts  of  salt 
and  brown  sugar ;  then  pack  the  hams  into  a  cask,  sprink- 
ling dry  salt  between  them,  and  let  them  lie  eight  days, 
rubbing  them  daily  with  the  salt  and  sugar ;  then  take  the 
hams  out  of  the  pickle,  brush  them  over  with  cider  vine- 
gar, and  afterwards  with  equal  parts  of  fine  salt,  molasses, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  to  every  two  hams ;  empty 
the  cask,  wash  it  out  with  cold  water,  and  repack  the 
hams  while  damp  and  sticky,  scattering  fine  salt  over  each. 
Let  them  lie  in  this  pickle  eight  days  longer;  then  wash 
off  with  tepid  water,  afterwards  with  vinegar ;  then,  while 
wet,  powder  them  with  bran,  and  smoke  a  fortnight  or 
three  weeks  (if  the  hams  are  large) ;  wrap  in  brown  paper 
that  has  no  unpleasant  odor,  stitch  a  muslin  cover  over 
this,  and  whitewash  ;  chip  or  shave  for  the  table. 

Venison  /Sausages  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). 
— Five  pounds  of  lean  venison  ;  two  pounds  of  salt  pork ; 
five  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sage ;  four  teaspoonf uls  of 
salt ;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper ;  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cayenne ;  one  small  onion  ;  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Chop  the  meat  very  small,  season,  and  pack  in  skins  or 


GAME.  175 

small  stone  jars ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place ;  fry  as  you  do 

other  sausages. 

Venison  Pasty. — For  the  gravy,  put  the  bones,  fat,  rag- 
ged and  gristly  bits  of  venison  into  a  saucepan  with  sweet 
herbs,  celery,  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  cover  well 
with  cold  water  and  set  on  to  boil ;  cut  the  better  pieces 
of  meat  into  squares  (inch),  and  cook  in  another  saucepan 
until  three  quarters  done ;  line  a  large,  deep  dish  with 
good  puff  paste;  put  in  the  squares  of  venison  with  half  a 
cupful  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  stewed ;  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and  cover  with  a  lid  of 
prepared  pastry  an  inch  thick ;  cut  a  round  hole  in  the 
middle,  fit  in  a  tin  cylinder,  and  bake  steadily,  covering 
the  crust  with  clean  white  paper  as  soon  as  it  is  firm ; 
while  it  is  cooking  prepare  the  gravy.  When  all  the  sub- 
stance has  been  extracted  from  the  bones,  etc.,  strain  the 
gravy,  return  to  the  saucepan,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  skim 
carefully,  and  add  a  glassful  of  port  wine,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  browned  flour  to 
thicken ;  boil  up  once,  remove  the  plug  from  the  hole  in 
the  pastry,  and  pour  in  through  a  funnel  as  much  gravy 
as  the  pie  will  hold ;  do  this  quickly,  brush  the  crust  over 
with  beaten  egg,  and  put  the  pie  back  in  the  oven  until  it 
is  a  rich  golden  russet.  This  operation  should  be  rapidly 
performed,  and  at  the  door  of  the  oven,  or  the  crust  will 
be  spoiled.  Bake  two  or  three  hours,  guiding  yourself  by 
the  size  of  the  pie ;  it  is  good  hot  or  cold. 

Crust  for  Venison  Pasty. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sifted  flour;  twelve  ounces  of  butter;  three  eggs;  salt; 
ice- water. 

Dry  the  flour,  and  cut  up  half  the  butter  in  it  with  a 
chopper  until  the  whole  is  fine  and  yellow ;  salt,  and  work 
up  with  ice-water,  adding,  last  of  all,  the  eggs  beaten  very 
light;  work  out  rapidly,  bundling  as  little  as  possible,  roll 
out  three  times  very  thin,  basting  with  butter,  then  into  a 


176  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

lid  nearly  an  inch  thick ;  cover  the  pie  with  this ;  cut  the 
rest  of  the  pastry  into  figures  and  ornaments,  bake  on  a 
tin  plate,  and  glaze  with  beaten  egg;  when  the  pie  is 
baked,  cover  the  hole  in  the  centre  with  one  of  these  or- 
naments, and  arrange  the  others  on  the  crust. 

Venison  Steaks  with  Sauce. — Steaks  are  cut  from  the 
neck  or  haunch.  Broil  rapidly  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over 
a  clear  and  fierce  fire,  turning  constantly.  They  require 
three  or  four  minutes  longer  to  cook  than  beefsteaks. 
While  the  steaks  are  broiling,  prepare  in  a  chafing-dish  a 
sauce  in  the  following  proportions:  A  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg  for  every  pound  of  venison  ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  currant  jelly  for  every  pound  of  venison ;  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  the  same  of  pepper ;  a  glassful  of  port  wine  or 
claret  for  every  four  pounds. 

This  should  be  liquid  and  boiling  hot  by  the  time  the 
steaks  are  done  to  a  turn ;  lay  each  steak  in  the  sauce 
separately,  and  turn  over  and  over;  then  cover  closely 
and  heat  altogether,  with  the  lamp  burning  underneath, 
for  five  minutes ;  serve  in  the  chafing-dish. 

Venison  Steaks,  Plain. — Broil  as  above,  then  dust  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  place  on  a  very  hot  dish  with  a  lump  of 
butter  on  each  steak ;  cover  with  another  hot  dish  and 
leave  in  a  warm  place  for  five  minutes ;  then  turn  them 
over  two  or  three  times  in  the  gravy  which  runs  from 
them,  and  serve. 

Venison  Chops  are  cut  from  the  loin  and  neck ;  broil  and 
butter  as  above. 

Wild  Turkey. — Draw  and  wash  the  inside  very  careful- 
ly, wipe  dry,  and  hang  for  twelve  hours  before  roasting ; 
when  ready  to  roast  wipe  dry  again,  truss,  and  stuff  with 
a  rich  forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs,  some  bits  of  fat  pork 
chopped  fine,  pepper,  a  soupgon  of  lean  minced  ham,  and 


GAME.  177 

some  boiled  and  peeled  chestnuts ;  moisten  with  milk,  and 
beat  in  an  egg  and  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter ;  baste  with  butter  and  water  at  first,  then  three  or 
four  times  with  gravy,  then  five  or  six  times  with  melted 
butter.  It  is  safe  to  allow  at  least  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter  for  basting  a  large  wild  turkey.  Dredge 
with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with  butter,  and  serve  when 
the  turkey  is  finely  browned  ;  dish  on  a  very  hot  dish,  sur- 
round with  a  wreath  of  water-cresses  or  curled  parsley,  and 
have  ready  cranberry,  currant  jelly,  and  &  puree  of  chest- 
nuts, so  that  your  guests  may  have  a  choice  of  sauces. 

Quails  Coasted  with  Ham. — Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as 
usual ;  but  cover  the  bird  with  ham  or  pork  cut  in  thin 
slices,  binding  all  with  buttered  packthread  ;  then  envelop 
all  in  buttered  white  paper,  and  baste  well  with  butter  and 
water;  roast  three  quarters  of  an  hour  if  the  fire  is  good, 
basting  constantly ;  remove  the  papers  and  meat  at  the 
last,  and  brown  quickly. 

8* 


VEGETABLES. 

GENERAL   RULES    FOE    COOKING   VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables  should  invariably  be  fresh.  They  should 
always  be  well  picked  over,  and  examined  before  using. 
Thetime  required  for  boiling  green  vegetables  is  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes. 

Green  vegetables  should  always  be  put  on  in  hot  water ; 
potatoes  in  cold  water. 

Dried  vegetables,  pease,  beans,  okra,  etc.,  should  be  soaked 
all  night  before  using  them.  Beets  require  from  two  to 
three  hours  to  boil,  turnips  an  hour,  cabbage  an  hour  and 
a  half,  parsnips  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  carrots  two  or 
three  hours,  onions  one. 

Tomatoes  can  scarcely  be  too  much  cooked.  Okra 
should  always  be  boiled  whole.  All  vegetables  should  be 
carefully  cooked,  drained,  seasoned,  and  served  red-hot. 


Artichokes,  Fried. — Pull  off  the  very  outer  leaves,  cut 
off  the  stalk,  and  clean  the  artichokes  thoroughly,  then  cut 
into  small  pieces,  dip  in  beaten  white  of  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Artichokes,  Boiled. — Clean  the  artichokes  thoroughly, 
cut  off  the  stalk,  and  pull  off  the  outer  leaves ;  then  put 
them  in  a  casserole  with  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  a  tablespoonful  of  essence  of  spinach 
had  better  be  added  some  ten  minutes  before  they  are 
taken  from  the  fire.     This  will  preserve  their  green  color. 


VEGETABLES.  1^9 

When   cooked,  drain,  and   arrange  in  a  very   hot   dish; 
serve  with  bread  sauce,  sauce  Hollandaise,  or  sauce  Soubise. 

Fricasseed  Artichokes. — Prepare  the  artichokes  as  for 
frying,  boil;  when  tender,  throw  them  into  cold  water  for 
a  few  moments,  and  then  stew  in  a  rich  white  sauce,  with 
some  cold  boiled  chicken,  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  square. 

Truffled  Artichokes  d  la  Verona. — Prepare  as  for  stuffed 
artichokes,  substituting  sliced  truffles  and  rolled  bread 
crumbs  for  any  other  stuffing  ;  moisten  well  with  melted 
butter,  then  with  strong  soup  stock,  and  cook  as  stuffed 
artichokes  ;  when  about  to  serve,  add  a  glassful  of  sherry  to 
the  grav}\ 

Artichokes,  Farcis  demi  Barigoule  (Ouisiniere  Pari- 
sienne). — Prepare  as  for  stuffed  artichokes,  but  put  a  hand- 
ful of  chopped  mushrooms  in  the  stuffing,  and  as  great  a 
variety  as  possible  of  sweet  herbs,  chopped  fine ;  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  put  them  into  a  rich 
white  sauce  ;  cook  with  fire  above  and  below,  basting  the 
artichokes  often  with  their  sauce. 

Artichokes  d  la  Provengale  (Ouisiniere  Bourgeoise). — 
Prepare  the  artichokes  carefully,  and  parboil ;  then  arrange 
in  a  large  flat  dish,  with  two  or  three  cloves  of  garlic,  salt, 
pepper,  and  enough  olive-oil  to  moisten  them  thoroughly ; 
put  the  dish  on  the  coals,  and  cook  with  fire  below  and 
above;  when  they  are  cooked,  take  out  the  garlic,  squeeze 
over  them  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Artichokes. — Reserve  the  very  large  artichokes, 
and  boil  them ;  take  out  several  of  the  inner  rows  of  the 
scales,  cut  off  the  tender  portions  of  these,  and  chop  them 
fine,  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  fresh  meat,  the  same  of  ham 
or  pork,  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  bread  crumbs;  season  the 


180  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

mixture  with  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  it  with  a  little  gravy, 
and  add  a  piece  of  onion  as  large  as  a  nutmeg,  mashed  to 
a  pulp  ;  fill  the  middle  of  the  artichokes  with  this  stuffing, 
set  them  in  a  pan,  with  a  little  rich  gravy  or  broth  at  the 
bottom  ;  cover  it  well,  and  let  them  stew  slowly  for  an  hour. 

Boiled  Jerusalem  Artichokes. — Wash  and  scrape  the  ar- 
tichokes, and  boil  them  in  water;  then  add  salt,  and  boil 
them  in  milk  until  quite  soft;  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter, 
well  rolled  in  flour,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  rich  cream  ;  season 
with  black  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg. 

Baked  Jerusalem  Artichokes. — Boil  one  pint  of  arti- 
chokes in  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  in  milk ; 
mash  them  smooth ;  mix  in  them  a  dessertspoonful  of 
butter,  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt;  bake  in 
open  shells,  with  bread  crumbs  on  top. 

Broiled  Artichokes  (Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise). — Parboil 
the  artichokes ;  pull  off  the  leaves;  chop  the  eatable  parts 
fine  with  a  little  parsley,  chives,  rolled  bread  crumbs,  salt, 
pepper,  mushroom  powder,  a  spoonful  of  the  finest  olive- 
oil  ;  put  this  stuffing  back  on  the  artichokes,  fold  in  a  fine 
folding  wire  broiler,  well  buttered,  and  broil  over  a  clear, 
fierce  fire. 

Asparagus,  Boiled. — Cut  your  stalks  of  equal  length, 
rejecting  the  woody  or  lower  portions,  and  scraping  the 
white  part  which  remains ;  throw  into  cold  water  as  you 
scrape  them ;  tie  in  a  bunch  with  soft  strings,  muslin,  or 
tape,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted ;  if  very 
young  and  fresh,  it  is  well  to  tie  in  a  piece  of  coarse  net 
to  protect  the  tops;  boil  from  twenty  to  forty  minutes, 
according  to  the  age ;  just  before  it  is  done,  toast  two  or 
three  slices  of  bread,  cutting  off  the  crust;  dip  in  the 
asparagus  liquor,  butter,  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish ;  when 
you  take  off  the  asparagus,  drain,  unbind  the  bundle,  and 


VEGETABLES.  181 

heap  it  upon  the  toast,  with  bits  of  butter  between  the 
stalks. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. — Cat  twenty-five  or  thirty  heads 
of  asparagus  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes ;  have  a  cupful  of  rich  drawn  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  put  in  the  asparagus  when  you  have  drained  it 
dry;  heat  together  to  a  boil,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bake-dish  ;  break  five  or  six 
eggs  carefully  over  the  surface,  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon 
each,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  when  the 
eggs  are  set. 

Or,  you  may  beat  the  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separately 
— to  a  froth ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir 
them  together,  with  the  addition  of  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk  or  cream,  and  pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus 
mixture  in  the  dish ;  this  is  decidedly  the  better  way  of 
the  two,  although  somewhat  more  troublesome. 

Asparagus  in  Ambush. — Cut  off  the  tender  tops  of  fifty 
heads  of  asparagus ;  boil  and  drain  them  ;  have  ready  half 
a  dozen  (or  more)  stale  biscuits  or  rolls,  from  which  you 
have  cut  a  neat  top  slice,  and  scraped  out  the  crumb ;  set 
them  in  the  oven  to  crisp,  laying  the  tops  beside  them, 
that  the  cavities  may  be  well  dried;  meanwhile,  put  into 
a  saucepan  a  sugarless  custard  made  of  a  pint — if  you  need 
so  much — of  milk,  and  four  well-whipped  eggs ;  boil  the 
milk  first,  before  beating  in  the  eggs ;  set  over  the  fire  and 
stir  until  it  thickens,  when  add  a  large  spoonful  of  butter, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  lastly  the  asparagus  tops,  minced 
fine ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  but  take  from  the  fire  so  soon  as 
the  asparagus  is  fairly  in ;  fill  the  rolls  with  the  mixture, 
put  on  the  tops,  fitting  them  accurately ;  set  in  the  oven 
three  minutes,  and  arrange  on  a  dish,  to  be  eaten  hot; 
the  number  of  rolls  will  depend  upon  their  size;  it  is 
better  to  have  them  small,  so  that  one  can  be  served  to 
each  person. 


182  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Boiled  Onions. — Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  them  ; 
lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan, 
with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 

Beets  Boiled. — Wash,  boil  several  hours,  or  until  tender ; 
then  pare,  and  cut  them  into  slices  (if  very  small  leave 
them  whole);  put  them  into  a  hot  dish,  pepper  and  salt 
lightly,  and  butter  abundantly. 

Beets  Stewed,  No.  1. — Boil  and  pare,  and,  if  necessary, 
slice  as  above ;  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  vinegar 
and  water,  a  lump  of  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  catsup ;  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  some  time. 

Beets  Stewed,  No.  2. — Boil,  skin,  and  slice  as  above ; 
then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  minced  shallot  and  parsley, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  like  quantity  of 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper ;  set  on  the  fire  and  simmer  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  often  ;  serve  in  their  gravy. 

Beets  in  Vinegar. — Boil,  skin,  and  slice  as  above ;  put 
into  a  deep  dish,  pour  over  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them ; 
dust  with  salt,  cover,  and  leave  until  cold. 

String,  or  French,  Beans,  No.  1. — Break  off  tops  and 
bottoms,  and  string  very  carefully ;  then  pare  both  edges 
with  a  sharp  knife,  lay  the  beans  in  salted  cold  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water;  boil  quickly — twenty  minutes  if  well-grown,  less 
if  small — but  remember  that  the  beans  must  be  tender; 
drain  off  the  water,  put  into  a  hot  dish,  stir  in  a  liberal 
lump  of  butter,  squeeze  over  the  beans  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  serve. 

String  Beans,  ]STo.  2. — Prepare  as  above,  then  put  them 
on  the  fire  in  cold  water  slightly  salted,  and  boil  until  very 
tender ;  drain  off  the  water,  return  to  the  fire  in  a  dry 


VEGETABLES.  183 

saucepan,  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  a  little  white  pepper, 
a  large  spoonful  of  cream,  and  let  them  stew  gently  an 
hour  or  two  before  serving ;  no  vegetable,  except  perhaps 
tomatoes,  is  so  much  improved  by  long  and  slow  cooking 
as  string  beans. 

Lima  Beans. — Only  the  young  ones  should  be  used ; 
lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half  after  they 
are  shelled;  then  boil  them  until  quite  tender;  drain 
them  well,  and  season  with  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt; 
add  a  large  piece  of  butter  after  the  beans  are  dished,  and 
toss  them  until  the  butter  is  melted. 

Kidney  and  other  Small  Beans. — Shell  into  cold  water, 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  A  small  piece  of 
fat  bacon  boiled  with  them  is  an  advantage  to  nearly  all 
beans.   If  the  bacon  be  used,  the  beans  should  not  be  salted. 

Dried  Beans. — Wash  well,  and  soak  over-night  in  luke- 
warm water,  changing  it  several  times  for  warmer ;  boil 
two  hours;  add  a  spoonful  of  burned  sugar,  then  mash 
thoroughly,  working  in  a  large  lump  of  butter. 

Bacon  and  Cabbage. — This,  I  need  hardly  say,  is  a  fa- 
vorite country  dish  at  the  South.  The  old-fashioned  way 
of  preparing  it  was  to  boil  meat  and  cabbage  together,  and 
serve,  reeking  with  fat,  the  cabbage  in  quarters,  soaking 
yet  more  of  the  essence  from  the  ham  or  middling  about 
which  it  lay.  In  this  shape  it  justly  earned  a  reputation 
for  grossness  and  indigestibility  that  banished  it,  in  time, 
from  many  tables.  Yet  it  is  a  savory  and  not  unwhole- 
some article  of  food  in  winter,  if  the  cabbage  be  boiled  in 
two  waters,  the  second  being  the  "pot-liquor"  from  the 
boiling  meat ;  drain  thoroughly  in  a  collander,  pressing 
out  every  drop  of  water  that  will  flow,  without  breaking 
the  tender  leaves,  and,  when  the  meat  is  dished,  lay  the 
cabbage  neatly  about  it,  and  upon  each  quarter  a  slice 


184  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  hard-boiled  egg ;   when  you  eat,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  vinegar. 

Stuffed  Cabbage,  a  la  Creole. — Choose  for  this  purpose 
a  large,  firm  cabbage ;  take  off  the  outer  leaves,  and  lay  in 
boiling  water  ten  minutes,  then  in  very  cold  ;  do  this 
several  hours  before  you  are  ready  to  stuff  it ;  when  per- 
fectly cold,  bind  a  broad  tape  about  it,  or  a  strip  of  muslin, 
that  it  may  not  fall  apart  when  the  stalk  is  taken  out ;  re- 
move this  with  a  thin,  sharp  knife,  leaving  a  hole  about  as 
deep  as  your  middle  finger ;  without  widening  the  mouth 
of  the  aperture,  excavate  the  centre  until  }^ou  have  room 
for  four  or  five  tablespoonf uls  of  the  forcemeat — more,  if 
the  head  be  large ;  chop  the  bits  you  take  out  very  small ; 
mix  with  some  minced  cold  boiled  pork  or  ham,  or  cooked 
sausage-meat,  a  very  little  onion,  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of 
thyme,  and  some  bread  crumbs;  fill  the  cavity  with  this, 
bind  a  wide  strip  of  muslin  over  the  hole  in  the  top,  and 
lay  the  cabbage  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  "  pot- 
liquor"  from  boiled  beef  or  ham;  stew  gently  until  very 
tender;  take  out  the  cabbage,  unbind  carefully,  and  lay  in 
a  dish ;  keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  gravy,  when  you 
have  strained  it,  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  two  or  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  rich  milk  or  cream ;  boil 
up,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

"Collards"  or  Cabbage  Sprouts. — Pick  over  carefully; 
lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  half  an  hour ;  shake  in  a 
colander  to  drain,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  keeping  at 
a  fast  boil  until  tender.  A  piece  of  pork  seasons  them 
pleasantly.  In  this  case  put  the  meat  on  first,  adding  the 
greens  when  it  is  parboiled,  and  cooking  them  together. 
Boil  in  an  uncovered  vessel.  Drain,  chop,  and  heap  them 
in  a  dish,  laying  the  meat  on  top. 

Ladies'  Cabbage. — Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen 
minutes ;  change  the  water  for  boiling  water ;  when  ten- 


VEGETABLES.  185 

der,  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold ;  chop  fine,  and 
add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream ;  stir  all 
well  together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until 
brown  ;  eat  very  hot.  I  can  recommend  this  dish  even  to 
those  who  are  not  fond  of  any  of  the  ordinary  prepara- 
tions of  cabbage.  It  is  digestible  and  palatable,  resem- 
bling cauliflower  in  taste. 

Fried  Cabbage. — Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage,  and  drain 
very  dry,  stirring  in  a  little  melted  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  ;  heat  all  in 
a  buttered  frying-pan,  stirring  until  smoking  hot ;  then  let 
the  mixture  stand  just  long  enough  to  brown  slightly  on 
the  under  side.  It  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  couple 
of  beaten  eggs.  Turn  out  by  putting  a  flat  dish  above  the 
pan,  upside  down,  and  reversing  the  latter.  This  is  a 
breakfast-dish. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  quar- 
ter, examine  carefully  to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  in  it, 
and  lay  for  an  hour  in  cold  water;  then  put  into  a  pot 
with  plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes; 
change  the  water,  filling  the  pot  with  boiling  water  from 
the  kettle;  cook  until  tender  all  through.  Three  quarters 
of  an  hour  will  do  for  a  good-sized  cabbage  when  young. 
Late  in  the  season  you  must  be  guided  by  the  tenderness 
of  the  stalk.  Drain  well,  chop,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  serve  very  hot.  If  you 
boil  corned  beef  or  pork  to  eat  with  cabbage,  let  the 
second  water  be  taken  from  the  pot  in  which  this  is  cook- 
ing; it  will  flavor  it  nicely.  Always  boil  cabbage  in 
two  waters. 

Sauerkraut. — Shred  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine ;  line  a 
barrel,  keg,  or  jar  with  cabbage-leaves  on  the  bottom  and 
sides ;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  cut  cabbage,  three  inches  in 


186  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

depth  ;  press  down  well  and  sprinkle  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt;  when  you  have  packed  five  layers  in 
tli is  way,  press  hard  with  a  board  cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the 
inside  of  the  barrel  or  jar ;  put  heavy  weights  on  this,  or 
pound  with  a  wooden  beetle  until  the  cabbage  is  a  com- 
pact mass,  when  remove  the  board  and  put  in  more  layers 
of  salt  and  shred  cabbage,  repeating  the  pounding  every 
four  or  five  layers  until  the  vessel  is  full ;  cover  with 
leaves,  and  put  the  board  on  the  top  of  these  with  a  heavy 
weight  to  keep  it  down  ;  set  all  away  to  ferment ;  in  three 
weeks  remove  the  scum,  and,  if  need  be,  cover  with  wa- 
ter; keep  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar.  It  can  be  eaten  raw  or 
boiled,  and  seasoned  with  pork. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. — Pick  off  the  leaves  and  cut  the 
stalk  close  to  the  bottom  of  the  bunch  of  flowers ;  lay  in 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour ;  unless  very  large  do  not  cut 
it;  if  you  do,  quarter  it  neatly;  tie  a  close  net  of  coarse 
bobbin ed  lace  or  tarlatan  about  it  to  prevent  breaking  or 
bruising;  put  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  cook  until 
tender;  undo  and  remove  the  net,  and  lay  the  cauli- 
flower in  a  hot  dish ;  have  ready  a  large  cupful  of  drawn 
butter  and  pour  over  it ;  cut  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork 
in  helping  it,  serving  the  sauce  to  each  person ;  take  it 
out  of  the  water  as  soon  as  it  is  done,  and  eat  hot;  it 
darkens  with  standing. 

Stewed  Caidiflower. — Use  for  this  dish  the  smaller  and 
more  indifferent  cauliflower ;  cut  them  into  small  clusters; 
lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  fifteen 
minutes  in  boiling  water;  turn  most  of  this  off,  leaving 
but  half  a  teacupful  in  the  saucepan  ;  add  to  this  a  half- 
cupful  of  milk  thickened  with  a  very  little  rice  or  wheat 
flour,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt;  shake  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  gently  until  it 
boils ;  take  out  the  cauliflower  with  a  perforated  skimmer, 
lay  in  order  upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 


VEGETABLES.  187 

Scalloped  Cauliflower. — Boil  until  tender,  clip  into  neat 
clusters,  and  pack — the  stems  downward — in  a  buttered 
pudding-dish ;  beat  up  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  to  a  soft 
paste,  with  two  tablespoon!" uls  of  melted  butter  and  three 
of  cream  or  milk ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  bind  with 
a  beaten  egg,  and  with  this  cover  the  cauliflower;  cover 
the  dish  closely,  and  bake  six  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
brown  five  more,  and  serve  very  hot  in  the  dish  in  which 
they  were  baked. 

Broccoli  and  Brussels  Sprouts. — Pick  over,  wash  care- 
fully, cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  stems,  and  lay  in  cold  wa- 
ter, slightly  salted,  half  an  hour;  cook  quickly  in  boiling 
wTater,  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender;  this  will  be  in  twelve 
or  fifteen  minutes ;  cook  in  an  uncovered  saucepan ;  drain 
well,  lay  in  a  meat-pile  lightly  heaped  in  the  centre  of  a 
dish,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over  them,  or  serve  this  in  a 
tureen. 

Broccoli  and  Eggs. — Boil  two  or  three  heads  of  broc- 
coli until  tender;  have  ready  two  cupfuls  of  butter  drawn 
in  the  usual  way,  and  beat  into  it,  while  hot,  four  well- 
whipped  eggs ;  lay  buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot 
dish,  and  on  this  the  largest  head  of  broccoli,  whole,  as  a 
centre-piece ;  arrange  close  about  this  the  others,  cut  into 
clusters,  the  stems  downward,  and  pour  the  egg  sauce 
over  all. 

* 
Cauliflower  d  la  Beine. — Boil  a  cauliflower  in  salted 
water  till  tender,  but  not  overdone;  when  cold,  cut  it  up 
neatly  in  small  sprigs;  make  a  dressing  of  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil  and  one  tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  rub  a  dish  slightly  with 
garlic,  arrange  the  pieces  of  cauliflower  on  it ;  strew  over 
them  some  capers,  a  little  tarragon,  chervil,  parsley,  all 
fairly  minced,  and  a  soupgon  of  dried  thyme  and  marjoram, 
powdered  ;  pour  the  dressing  over  it,  and  serve. 


188  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cauliflower  au  Gralin. — Boil  a  cauliflower  in  salted 
water  till  tender;  then  put  into  a  dish,  cut  it  up  neatly, 
arranging  the  pieces  of  stalk  so  as  to  form  a  foundation ; 
sprinkle  these  with  grated  and  browned  bread  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese,  and  a  little  white  pepper ;  then  upon  this 
foundation  arrange  the  flowery  part  of  the  cauliflower, 
sprinkling  them  thickly  with  grated  {not  browned)  bread 
crumbs,  grated  cheese,  and  a  little  white  pepper ;  stick  bits 
of  butter  over  the  top,  then  set  in  the  oven  until  brown; 
serve  in  same  dish. 

Carrots,  Stewed,  No.  1. — Scrape,  peel,  and  wash  the  car- 
rots, and  boil  until  perfectly  soft,  with  one  or  two  onions. 
Carrots  require  a  long  time  to  cook.  When  quite  soft, 
cut  them  in  small  pieces,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
meat  gravy  or  soup  stock,  and  let  them  simmer  for  an 
hour  or  longer,  with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  (very  little),  and 
a  pinch  of  white  sugar.  If  you  have  no  soup  stock  or 
gravy,  use  butter,  browned  flour,  and  water,  for  the  sauce. 

Carrots,  Stewed,  No.  2. — Prepare  as  above,  but  omit 
the  vinegar;  use  cream  for  the  sauce,  and  dust  the  dish 
lightly  with  roasted  powdered  parsley. 

Mashed  Carrots. — Boil  as  above ;  then  mash  soft  with 
a  wooden  beetle  and  work  in  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  rich  cream. 

Baked  Cucumbers. — Pare  the  cucumbers,  chop  them 
fine,  with  a  small  onion ;  put  them  on  with  a  very  little 
water,  and  let  them  stew  for  ten  minutes;  prepare  a  rich 
dressing  as  for  poultry ;  pour  off  all  the  water  from  the 
cucumbers,  add  the  dressing  and  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  bake  in  a  deep  dish. 

Fried  Cucumbers. — Slice  the  cucumbers  when  the  seeds 
are  full-grown,  and  before  they  turn  yellow  or  ripen  ; 


VEGETABLES.  189 

sprinkle  salt  on  the  slices,  let  them  stand  for  an  hour,  and 
fry  them  as  fish,  with  hot  butter  or  lard. 

Fried  Cucumbers  d  la  Italienne. — Cut  the  cucumbers 
with  a  potato-cutter  into  fine,  thin  strings;  throw  them 
into  ice-water  for  an  hour;  then  dry  them,  drop  into  hot 
lard,  and  fry  as  you  do  Saratoga  potatoes ;  dust  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  serve. 

Baked  Cucumbers,  Stuffed. — Cut  fine,  large  cucumbers 
lengthwise  ;  scoop  out  a  hollow  in  them  ;  stuff  with  a  rich 
forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs,  cold  veal  or  chicken  minced 
fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  melted  butter  to 
bind  all  smoothly  together ;  stuff  the  cucumbers  with  this, 
and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. 

/Stewed  Cucumbers. — Pare  them,  and  cut  into  thick 
slices ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  minced  shallot 
and  a  little  water,  and  let  them  stew  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
pour  off  the  water,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper;  let  it  remain  on  the  fire  two  or  three  minutes,  and 
serve. 

Raw  Cucumbers. — Pare,  cut  into  the  thinnest  possible 
slices,  and  lay  in  ice-water,  slightly  salted,  for  two  hours ; 
drain,  put  into  a  dish  which  has  been  rubbed  with  onion 
or  garlic,  and  serve  with  a  simple  French  dressing.  A 
pinch  of  cayenne  usually  improves  raw  cucumbers.  You 
may  omit  the  oil  in  the  dressing  if  you  like. 

Steived  Salsify. — Scrape  and  wash  well  six  or  eight 
roots,  and  boil  them  until  they  are  quite  soft;  then  cut 
them  in  pieces  an  inch  long,  or  less ;  mix  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  with  flour,  very  smoothly ;  add  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  stir  it  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  salsify,  seasoning  it  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir 
frequently,  and  let  it  stew  gently  half  an  hour. 


190  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Boiled  Green  Corn. — Choose  young  sugar  corn,  full 
grown,  but  tender — the  milk  should  escape  from  the  grain 
at  a  touch  ;  strip  off  the  outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  inner 
ones  carefully,  remove  every  thread  of  silk,  recover  with 
the  leaves,  tie,  put  into  boiling  water  salted,  and  boil  from 
twenty  minutes  to  an  hour*;  cut  off  the  stalks,  and  send 
to  table  wrapped  in  a  napkin. 

Stewed  Green  Corn. — Cut  from  the  cob,  and  stew  fifteen 
minutes  in  boiling  water ;  turn  off  most  of  this,  cover  with 
cold  milk,  and  stew  until  very  tender ;  stir  in  a  large  lump 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  cook  five  minutes  longer,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Roasted  Green  Corn. — Turn  back  the  husks,  remove 
the  silk  carefully,  recover  with  the  husks,  tie  tight,  and 
roast  in  the  hot  ashes  of  a  wood  fire. 

Succotash,  No.  1  (Indian  receipt).— One  quarter  of  a 
peck  of  beans;  one  dozen  ears  of  corn. 

When  cooked  pour  off  almost  all  the  water;  cut  and 
scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob,  stir  in  a  lump  of  bacon,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Succotash,  ~No.  2. — Two  thirds  of  green  corn  cut  from 
the  cob ;  one  third  of  Lima  beans. 

Put  into  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  stew 
gently  together  until  very  tender,  stirring  occasionally; 
pour  off  nearly  all  the  water  and  add  a  large  cupful  of 
milk ;  stew  in  the  milk  for  an  hour :  then  stir  in  a  large 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Com  and  Tomatoes. — Equal  quantities  of  green  corn 
cut  from  the  cob,  and  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced. 
Stew  together  half  an  hour;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and    a    little    white   sugar ;    stew   fifteen    minutes   long- 


VEGETABLES.  191 

er,  stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter,  and  in  Hve  minutes 
serve. 

Sweet  Corn  as  Prepared  by  the  Indians. — Boil  as  many 
ears  as  you  require  of  the  sweet  corn,  such  as  is  used  for 
the  table,  and  of  the  same  degree  of  ripeness.  It  should 
not  be  boiled  quite  as  long  as  for  present  use.  Cut  the 
grains  from  the  cob,  and  spread  them  on  large  cloths  in 
the  sun  and  dry  thoroughly  ;  keep  in  a  dry  room ;  when 
wanted  throw  a  few  handfuls  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  till  soft.  This,  in  midwinter,  will  give  a  dish  of 
corn  as  fine  as  if  plucked  from  the  field. 

Hulled  Corn  (Indian  receipt). — Boil  ripe  corn  in  weak 
lye  until  the  hulls  come  off  easily ;  then  wash  it  well  and 
put  it  in  fresh  water,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  well  swelled ; 
then  wash  it  again  and  boil  it  in  water  (in  which  you  have 
put  a  little  salt)  for  a  short  time ;  dish,  adding  butter  and 
pepper. 

Corn  Pudding. — One  quart  of  fresh  green  corn  cut  from 
the  cob  ;  one  teacupful  of  cream ;  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  deep  dish  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

Corn  Pie. — One  pint  of  fresh  green  corn  grated ;  one 
teacupful  of  cream ;  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  good  paste,  heat  the  grated 
corn  before  pouring  it  in,  and  bake  it. 

Corn  Fritters. — Corn  from  twelve  ears,  well  cut  and 
scraped  from  the  cob;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white 
flour  sifted  ;  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Mix  well  together,  and  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  a 
deep  saucepan  full  of  boiling  lard  ;  fry  brown  and  serve. 


192  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Fried  Egg-plant. — Cut  the  egg-plants  into  slices  at  least 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  salt  them  and  let  them  lie  on 
a  dish  a  little  raised  on  one  side  that  the  juice  may  run 
off;  let  them  remain  thus  for  an  hour;  then  flour  them, 
add  more  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. 
Egg-plant  may  also  be  dressed  like  salsify. 

Scalloped  Egg-plant. — Quarter,  peel,  and  boil  the  egg- 
plant until  soft  enough  to  mash ;  drain,  mash,  add  a  large 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  cream,  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  on- 
ion chopped  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  mix  all 
well  together,  put  into  a  baking-dish,  cover  the  top  with 
rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Stuffed  Egg-plants  a  la  Creole. — Parboil  the  egg-plants; 
cut  them  in  halves ;  scoop  out  the  inside,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  outside  skin,  which  you  refill  later  with  the 
following  stuffing :  Mix  up  the  inside  of  the  egg-plant  with 
a  slice  of  boiled  ham  chopped  very  fine,  bread  crumbs,  but- 
ter, salt,  and  pepper — shrimps,  if  you  have  them,  make  a  de- 
licious addition ;  bind  this  stuffing  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  fill  your  egg-plant  skins ;  sprinkle  with  powdered  bread 
crumbs,  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  piece,  and 
bake. 

Stuffed  Squash. — Parboil  the  squash ;  cut  a  round  piece 
out  of  the  top,  remove  the  seed,  make  a  stuffing  as  above, 
and  fill  your  squash  and  bake. 

Bell  Peppers  can  also  be  stuffed  and  served  in  the  same 
manner. 

Large  Hominy  or  Samp,  Boiled. — One  quart  of  hominy ; 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  hominy  eight  or  ten  inch- 
es deep. 

Boil  an  hour,  pour  off  all  the  water,  and  fill  the  pot  in 


VEGETABLES.  193 

the  same  measure  with  boiling  water ;  boil  for  nine  or  ten 
hours  steadily,  refilling  the  pot  with  boiling  water  as  it 
boils  away ;  do  not  stir  nor  uncover  the  pot ;  when  ten- 
der uncover  and  move  it  where  it  will  only  simmer,  un- 
til the  water  is  absorbed ;  then  drain  dry ;  serve  very  hot, 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

To  Boil  Small  Hominy. — One  quart  of  hominy;  two 
quarts  of  water  slightly  salted. 

Boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  occasionally  ; 
when  nearly  done  pour  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  simmer  un- 
til it  thickens. 

Fried  Hominy. — Cold  boiled  hominy  should  be  formed 
into  round  pats,  and  fried  in  boiling  butter  or  lard. 

Baked  Hominy. — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy ; 
two  cupf uls  of  milk ;  one  large  dessertspoonful  of  butter 
melted;  one  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar;  salt  to  taste; 
three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 

Work  the  yolks  in  alternately  with  the  melted  butter, 
then  the  sugar  and  salt,  then  very  gradually  the  milk; 
lastly,  stir  in  the  whites,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish  till  cooked. 

Hominy  Croquettes. — One  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy ; 
one  egg;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  fine  flour ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cracker  crumbs ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together,  form  into  oval  balls,  dip  in  beat- 
en egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  boiling 
lard. 

Browned  Hominy.  —  Mash  and  season  with  salt  and 
melted  butter  as  much  cold  boiled  hominy  as  required ; 
put  pieces  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed,  into  a  small,  deep  fry- 
ing-pan, and,  as  it  melts,  toss  and  turn  it  until  the  pan  is 

9 


194  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

hot  and  well  greased ;  then  put  in  the  hominy,  cover  the 
pan  closely  with  a  plate,  and  set  it  where  it  will  not 
burn ;  when  the  hominy  is  thoroughly  heated  through, 
remove  the  cover,  and  let  it  brown  on  the  bottom  and 
sides. 

Lettuce  au  Jus  (Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise), —  Take  firm, 
apple-shaped  lettuce,  and  pull  off  the  loose  green  leaves ; 
wash  and  blanch  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  drain 
and  press  dry  lightly  with  a  clean  cloth ;  make  a  small  in- 
cision in  the  heart  of  each  lettuce,  and  put  in  some  bread 
crumbs  soaked  in  strong  stock,  a  tiny  dice  of  fat  bacon,  a 
little  pepper,  and  a  soupgon  of  nutmeg;  bind  the  lettuce 
firmly  in  shape  with  strong  thread  ;  then  line  a  deep  sauce- 
pan with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  carrots,  onions,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs;  place  the  lettuce  in  the  bottom  of  the 
saucepan,  cover  them  with  slices  of  bacon  and  vegetables, 
moisten  well  with  beef  bouillon  and  strong  gravy,  stew 
two  hours,  and  serve  with  the  sauce  in  which  they  have 
been  cooked  thickened  with  browned  flour. 

Lettuce  a  la  Crime  or  a  la  Chartreuse. — Proceed  as  above, 
omitting  the  bacon  and  soup  stock,  and  using  instead  but- 
ter and  cream. 

Stuffed  Lettuce  {Cuisinilre  Parisienne). —  Prepare  as 
above,  removing,  however,  the  innermost  hearts,  and  chop- 
ping them  up  with  a  rich  forcemeat  of  minced  veal  and 
chicken,  bread  crumbs,  melted  butter,  etc. 

Stewed  Lettuce  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Pull  off  the 
loose  green  leaves ;  wash  the  lettuce  well  in  several  wa- 
ters; throw  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  cook  half  an 
hour ;  take  out  of  the  water,  and  drain  dry ;  then  take  a 
clean  cloth  and  press  the  lettuce  into  balls ;  then  chop 
fine ;  put  into  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  well  in 
flour,  stir  well,  put  in  the  lettuce,  and  stir  until  they  dry  ; 


VEGETABLES.  195 

then  add  some  good  gravy  or  bouillon,  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper,  and  the  tiniest  pinch  of  nutmeg;  when 
quite  tender  add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  rich  cream ;  serve 
with  croutons  (crusts)  of  fried  bread.  You  may  omit  the 
stock  and  cook  simply  in  milk  if  you  like. 

Stewed  Chiccory. — Prepare  as  above. 

Rides  for  Cooking  Mushrooms. — Select  always  the  fresh- 
est and  finest.  They  should  be  round,  small,  firm,  the 
under  side  salmon  or  pink,  the  outside  grayish  white,  with 
pink  gills.  No  other  sort  of  mushroom  is  safe.  Cook 
in  a  porcelain -lined  saucepan,  always  cooking  a  peeled 
white  onion  in  the  pot.  Should  the  onion  turn  black,  the 
mushrooms  are  unsafe.  If  you  do  not  like  the  flavor  of 
the  onion,  put  a  silver  spoon  into  the  pot  and  leave  it  while 
you  cook  the  mushrooms ;  if  it  should  tarnish  the  mush- 
rooms are  unsafe.  Pick  over  the  mushrooms  carefully, 
wash,  and  wipe  with  a  flannel  cloth. 

Stewed  Mushrooms,  No.  1. — Wash  and  peel  the  mush- 
rooms, sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  a  short 
time  ;  to  a  pint  of  juice  add  a  small  teacupful  of  milk,  and 
stew  them  for  nearly  an  hour ;  if  they  do  not  give  out  much 
juice,  add  a  little  more  milk  to  prevent  them  from  drying; 
when  stewed  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg^ 
a  little  salt,  red  and  black  pepper,  and  a  spoonful  of  rich 
cream. 

Stewed  Mushrooms,  No.  2. — Proceed  as  above,  using 
beef  or  chicken  broth  (or  even  water)  instead  of  milk,  and 
adding  a  small  teacupful  of  sherry  when  you  put  in  the 

butter. 

Stewed  Mushrooms,  No.  3. — Put  the  mushrooms  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  cream,  salt,  and  pepper;  let  them 
simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  when  you  remove  them  stir  in 


196  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

a  little  piece  of  butter;  keep  them  covered  all  the  time, 
and  serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Mushrooms. — Choose  for  this  purpose  fine, 
firm  ones.  Pick,  wash,  wipe,  and  peel  as  usual ;  then  lay 
them  in  a  deep  pudding-dish  well  buttered ;  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  very  little  onion  ;  sprinkle  each 
layer  with  rolled  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  little  pieces  of 
butter,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full,  hav- 
ing the  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Broiled  Mushrooms.  —  Take  large,  fine  mushrooms; 
pick,  wash,  wipe,  and  peel  them ;  take  off  the  stems,  and 
boil  them  in  a  little  cream  oj  milk;  place  the  mushrooms 
in  a  fine  folding  wire  broiler ;  place  this  over  the  coals  and 
turn  it  frequently,  removing  the  mushrooms  as  they  are 
done  to  a  hot,  covered  dish. 

Mushrooms,  Steamed,  No.  1  (Soyer). — Cut  two  slices  of 
bread  half  an  inch  thick,  and  large  enough  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  plate ;  cut  off  the  crust,  toast  them  a  light  brown  on 
both  sides,  and  spread  some  Devonshire  cream  (i.  e.,  sweet, 
rich  cream,  clotted);  then,  having  previously  cleaned  the 
mushrooms,  put  them  head  downward  on  the  toast,  sprin- 
kle them  lightly  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  place  in 
each  mushroom  as  much  clotted  cream  as  it  will  hold ; 
then  put  a  small  tumbler  or  cup  over  each  mushroom, 
pushing  it  well  down  into  the  toast ;  put  the  mushrooms 
so  prepared  into  the  oven  and  cook  fifteen  minutes ;  when 
you  remove  them  from  the  oven  do  not  remove  the  glass 
for  several  minutes.  This  is  incomparably  the  best  way 
of  cooking  mushrooms.  The  inverted  glass  condenses  the 
peculiar  aroma  which  is  the  glory  of  the  mushroom. 

Mushrooms,  Steamed,  No.  2  (Soyer). — Proceed  as  above ; 
but  if  you  have  no  clotted  cream,  make  a  sauce  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:    Boil  some  milk  until  it  is  reduced  to 


VEGETABLES.  197 

cream,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  one  clove ;  when 
warm  put  in  an  ounce  of  butter  mixed  with  a  little  flour ; 
stir  well;  put  the  mushrooms  on  the  toast  with  this  sauce, 
cover  with  a  basin,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour. 
All  kinds  of  mushrooms  are  delicious  in  this  way. 

Mushrooms  d  la  Basse. — Choose  the  finest  button 
mushrooms  you  can  get ;  wipe  clean  and  white  with  a  wet 
flannel  cloth,  and  cut  off  the  stalks ;  stew  ten  minutes  in  a 
porcelain  saucepan ;  strain  partially,  and  cover  with  as 
much  rich  sour  cream  as  you  have  water ;  stew  five  min- 
utes, and  add  some  veal  gravy  and  a  very  little  lemon 
juice,  and  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  They  should  be 
pretty  hot. 

Mushroom  Loaf. — Carefully  wash  the  mushrooms,  wip- 
ing them  dry  and  white  with  a  flannel  cloth;  put  into  a 
porcelain  saucepan,  together  with  a  sliced  onion  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  with  cold  broth,  and  stew 
very  gently  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  a  tablespoonf ul 
of  butter,  divided  into  bits  and  rolled  in  browned  flour ; 
boil  three  or  four  minutes;  then  add  three  tablespoonf uls 
of  white  wine  beaten  up  with  egg^  and  stir  two  minutes 
more ;  have  ready  a  baker's  well-baked,  stale  loaf,  from  the 
inside  of  which  all  the  crumb  has  been  removed.  This 
must  be  done  in  the  following  manner:  Make  a  round  hole 
in  the  bottom  of  the  loaf  and  carefully  dig  out  as  much 
of  the  crumb  as  possible,  while  keeping  the  shape  of  the 
loaf ;  now  stuff  the  hollowed  loaf  with  the  mushrooms, 
adding,  also,  the  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  the  sauce 
in  which  the  mushrooms  were  cooked  ;  when  the  loaf  is 
filled,  stop  up  the  hole  with  a  piece  of  bread,  and  put  the 
loaf  in  a  casserole,  the  bottom  of  which  must  be  covered 
with  slices  of  ham  ;  add  all  the  mushroom  sauce  and  bread 
crumb  which  remain,  and,  after  basting  the  loaf  carefully 
with  melted  butter,  cook  it  with  fire  below  and  above,  and 
until  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through  and  finely  browned; 


198  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

baste  once  again  with  butter,  and  serve   in  a  very  hot 
dish.     {Delicious.) 

Mushroom  Toast.  —  Stew  some  mushrooms  as  above, 
substituting  water  for  the  broth,  and  cream  for  the  white 
wine;  have  ready  some  muffins,  each  sliced  in  four,  light- 
ly toasted  and  buttered  on  both  sides,  and  arrange  the 
mushrooms  in  layers  between  the  slices  of  toast;  pour  over 
them  some  boiling  milk,  with  which  the  sauce  in  which 
the  mushrooms  were  cooked  has  been  stirred;  cover  close- 
ly for  five  minutes  beftfre  serving. 

Roast  Mushrooms,  No.  1. — Clean  and  wipe  the  mush- 
rooms, and  arrange  them  on  buttered  toast,  and  with  a  little 
butter  in  the  hollow  of  each,  in  a  Dutch  oven ;  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  very  lightly  with  flour,  and 
turn  from  time  to  time. 

Hoast  Mushrooms,  ~No.  2. — Choose  some  mushrooms 
and  prepare  as  for  "  Mushroom  Loaf ;"  but  some  time 
before  using  them  put  them  to  soak  in  a  little  melted  but- 
ter with  a  soupgon  of  garlic ;  then  skewer  them  carefully, 
and  roast  over  a  clear,  fierce  fire,  basting  occasionally  with 
butter;  meanwhile,  boil  the  stems  in  a  little  broth,  and, 
when  the  mushrooms  are  cooked,  transfer  to  a  very  hot 
dish,  cover,  and  strain  the  gravy,  adding  salt  and  pepper, 
a  lump  of  butter,  and  a  wineglassful  of  sherry ;  pour 
over  the  mushrooms,  and  serve. 

Baked  Mushrooms. — Choose  fine  mushrooms,  prepare 
as  usual ;  put  them  to  soak  for  an  hour  in  a  little  cream, 
with  a  shallot;  then  envelop  each  mushroom  closely  in 
buttered  white  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  salt 
and  pepper  them,  and  serve. 

Nettles  and  Dandelions,  gathered  before  they  are  in 
flower,  may  be  dressed  like  spinach  and  served  on  toast  or 


VEGETABLES.  199 

garnished  with  pieces  of  fried  bread,  and  are  a  wholesome 
addition  to  the  list  of  vegetables. 

Nettles  or  Hop  Tops,  served  as  Asparagus  (excellent). — 
Break  off  the  young  shoots  of  hops,  tie  them  in  bundles, 
and  boil  them  with  a  little  meat  for  twenty  minutes;  serve 
as  asparagus. 

Boiled  Onions. — Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  them; 
lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour;  then  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them;  cook  fifteen 
minutes  and  drain  off  the  water,  re-covering  them  with 
more  from  the  boiling  kettle;  boil  until  a  straw  will 
pierce  them;  drain  and  put  into  a  dish  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  plenty  of  butter;  serve  with  the  drawn  butter  in  a 
butter-boat.     Never  cook  onions  in  an  iron  pot. 

Stewed  Onions.— -Young  onions  should  always  be  cooked 
in  this  way :  Top,  tail,  and  skin  them ;  lay  them  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour  or  more,  then  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  hot  water  enough  to  cover  them ;  when  half  done, 
throw  off  all  the  water  except  a  small  teacupful — less,  if 
your  mess  is  small;  add  a  like  quantity  of  milk,  a  large 
spoonful  of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  stew 
gently  until  tender,  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish. 

If  the  onions  are  strong  and  large,  boil  in  three  waters, 
throwing  away  all  of  the  first  and  second,  and  reserving  a 
very  little  of  the  third  to  mix  with  the  milk. 

It  ought  to  be  more  generally  known  that  the  disagree- 
able odor  left  by  any  of  the  onion  family  upon  the  breath 
may  be  removed  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains 
of  roasted  coffee.  No  more  nutritious  vegetable  ever  finds 
its  way  to  our  tables;  and  it  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that 
the  unpleasant  result  just  named  should  deter  so  many 
from  eating  it.  It  is  especially  beneficial  to  brain-workers 
and  nervous  invalids — the  very  people  who  are  least  likely 
to  use  it. 


200  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Baked  Onions. — The  large  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions 
are  the  only  kinds  which  are  usually  baked.  Wash  clean, 
but  do  not  remove  the  skins;  boil  an  hour.  The  water 
should  be  boiling  when  they  are  put  in,  and  slightly  salt. 
Change  it  twice  during  this  time,  always  replenishing  with 
more  boiling-hot  water,  and  simmer  in  the  oven  for  an 
hour,  basting  often  with  melted  butter;  when  done,  take 
the  onions  up  carefully  and  arrange  the  open  ends  upper- 
most in  a  vegetable  dish;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping- 
pan  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  cream 
or  milk,  and  a  little  browned  flour  wet  with  cold  milk; 
boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  onions. 

Stuffed  Onions. — Wash  and  skin  very  large  Bermuda 
onions;  lay  in  cold  water  an  hour ;  parboil  in  boiling  wa- 
ter half  an  hour;  drain,  and  while  hot  extract  the  hearts, 
taking  care  not  to  break  the  outer  layers;  chop  the  inside 
thus  obtained  very  fine,  with  a  little  cold  fat  or  bacon  ; 
add  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  wet  with  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  cream ;  bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg, 
and  work  into  a  smooth  paste ;  stuff  the  onions  with  this ; 
put  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  hot  water;  turn 
off  the  water;  take  the  onions  out  and  lay  upon  a  cloth, 
that  all  the  moisture  may  be  absorbed  or  evaporate ;  roll 
each  in  a  round  piece  of  buttered  tissue-paper,  twisting  in 
at  the  top  to  keep  it  closed,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  near- 
ly an  hour;  when  tender  all  through,  peel  them,  put  them 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  brown  slightly,  basting  with  butter 
freely ;  this  will  take,  perhaps,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more ; 
serve  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  the  melted  but- 
ter when  you  have  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Pea  Fritters  or  Cakes. — Cook  a  pint  or  three  cups  more 
pease  than  you  need  for  dinner;  mash  while  hot  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter ; 
put  by  until  morning ;  make  a  batter  of  two  whipped 
eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  quarter  teaspoonfui  soda,  half  a  tea- 


VEGETABLES.  201 

spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a  cup  of  flour ;  stir 
the  pea  mixture  into  this,  beating  very  hard,  and  cook  as 
you  would  ordinary  griddle-cakes. 

Green  Pease. — Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  until  yon  are 
ready  to  cook  them;  put  into  salted  boiling  water,  and 
cook  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  ;  if  young  and 
fresh,  the  shorter  time  will  suffice ;  if  just  gathered  from 
your  own  vines  and  tender,  season  only  with  salt.  Market 
pease  are  greatly  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  small  lump 
of  white  sugar.  It  improves  taste  and  color.  The  English 
always  put  it  in,  also  a  sprig  of  mint,  to  be  removed  when 
the  pease  are  dished.  Drain  well,  and  dish  with  a  great 
lump  of  butter  stirred  in,  and  a  little  pepper  ;  keep  hot. 

Buttered  Parsnips. — Boil  until  tender,  scrape,  and  cut 
lengthwise  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  broil  on  a  well- 
buttered  gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  them  often  ; 
when  sufficiently  cooked,  transfer  to  a  very  hot  dish  ;  but- 
ter well,  turning  them  over  and  over ;  pour  over  a  little 
boiling-hot  cream,  and  serve. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin, 
and  cut  lengthwise  in  thick  slices  ;  dredge  with  flour,  and 
fry  in  hot  dripping,  turning  often  ;  drain  off  the  fat,  pep- 
per lightly,  and  serve. 

Boiled  Parsnips. — If  young,  scrape  ;  if  old,  pare  care- 
fully ;  put  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  until 
tender  ;  test  by  piercing  with  a  fork ;  when  tender,  drain 
and  cut  lengthwise,  butter  well,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Boil  two  large  parsnips  ;  mash  them 
well  into  a  batter  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  rolled 
bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  one  egg; 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper ;  drop  a  tablespoonful  at  a 
time  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

9* 


202  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Mashed  Parsnips. — Boil  until  very  tender,  mash  to  a 
smooth  cream,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  cream ;  shape  into  a  mound, 
and  serve. 

Potatoes,  to  Cook. — "  There  are  great  varieties  of  pota- 
toes, and  as  many  ways  of  cooking  them,  but  boiling  is 
always  better  than  steaming"  (Meg  Dods). — "Steam,  or 
else  boil  until  half  done;  then  throw  in  salt  and  cold 
water;  boil  till  nearly  done;  pour  off  the  water,  and  leave 
the  potatoes  in  the  pot,  and  as  near  the  fire  as  possible"  (Mrs. 
Rundell). — "Boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  without 
burning  the  saucepan"  (Mrs.  Glasse). — "Peel  the  pota- 
toes, and  boil  them  slowly  ;  when  done,  pour  off  the  water, 
throw  salt  over,  and  shake  the  pot  violently  for  some 
time,  so  that  they  are  broken"  (Mrs.  Acton,  "Lancashire 
Cookery  "). 

Potatoes,  to  Choose. — First,  remember  that  the  smaller 
the  eye  the  better  the  potato ;  secondly,  nip  a  piece  from 
the  thickest  end  with  your  finger-nail ;  if  good,  the  inside 
will  be  of  a  white,  yellow,  or  reddish  hue,  according  to  the 
quality  ;  if  spotted,  though  ever  so  slightly,  the  potatoes 
are  bad.  In  the  spring  of  the  year  potatoes  are  always 
bad,  as  the  old  ones  are  deteriorating,  and  the  new  ones  are 
flavorless  and  watery. 

Potatoes,  to  Boil. — The  various  methods  of  boiling  given 
by  the  above  ancient  authorities — Meg  Dods,  Mistresses 
Glasse,  Rundell,  and  Acton — are  all  good,  but  different 
varieties  of  potatoes  require  different  methods  of  boiling. 

New  Potatoes  are  much  better  if  thrown  into  very  hot 
water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  boiled  quickly — from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes. 

Watery  Potatoes  should  be  peeled  and  thrown  into  boil- 


VEGETABLES.  203 

ing  water ;  when  done,  the  water  should  be  poured  off, 
and  some  salt  thrown  over  the  potatoes,  which  should  be 
left  in  the  pot  near  the  fire,  and  shaken  violently  from 
time  to  time.  If  so  watery  by  nature  that  this  does  not 
succeed,  the  potatoes  should  be  washed  clean,  and  put  into 
the  pot  in  their  skins ;  the  pot  should  then  be  filled  up 
with  water,  and  a  piece  of  lime,  the  size  of  a  nut,  thrown 
in  ;  this  will  render  the  potatoes  mealy. 

Boiled  Potatoes,  in  their  Skins. — Choose  them  of  uni- 
form size,  with  a  smooth  skin,  and  boil  in  cold  water,  with 
a  pinch  of  salt ;  cook  steadily,  until  the  skins  begin  to 
crack,  and  you  can  with  a  fork  pierce  them  to  the  heart ; 
pour  off  all  the  water,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  leave 
them  uncovered  near  the  fire  for  about  fi.ve  minutes ;  serve 
in  a  very  hot  dish. 

Boiled  Potatoes,  vnthout  the  Skin. — Pare  as  thinly  as 
possible,  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour;  then  drop 
them  in  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  keep  at  a  rapid 
boil  until  tender;  drain  off  the  water  and  salt,  and  dry  as 
above  directed. 

Boast  Potatoes. — It  is  impossible  to  roast  potatoes  oth- 
erwise than  with  the  aid  of  a  wood  fire.  They  should  be 
washed  clean,  wiped  dry,  and  buried  in  hot  ashes  and  cin- 
ders. When  thoroughly  cooked  they  should  be  carefully 
wiped  clean  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  served  in  their  jackets, 
in  a  very  hot  dish.     Eat  with  salt  and  butter. 

Soyer's  Boast  Potatoes. — Take  large,  fine  potatoes,  par- 
boil them,  remove  the  skins,  and  put  them  into  a  deep 
dish  which  has  previously  been  well  buttered,  and  lightly 
dredged  with  sifted  flour ;  stick  bits  of  butter  among  the 
potatoes,  dredge  them  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
cook  them  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven  ;  when  properly 
cooked  they  are  light  brown  in  color,  and  are  delicious. 


204  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

They  may  also  be  cooked  in  the  oven,  but  they  are  not  so 
good. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Wash  and  wipe  some  large  ripe  pota- 
toes, and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  tender:  i.  e.,  from 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour,  if  the  potatoes  are 
large ;  press  each  potato  until  it  cracks,  in  a  clean  cloth, 
and  serve  in  a  folded  napkin,  on  a  very  hot  dish ;  eat  with 
salt  and  butter. 

Desiree's  Potatoes  (Creole  method  of  making  poor  po- 
tatoes palatable). — Wash  the  potatoes,  wipe  them  dry,  peel, 
and  carefully  cut  out  all  the  bad  parts ;  boil  them  accord- 
ing to  the  receipt  for  treating  watery  potatoes,  and  drain, 
salt,  and  dry ;  shake  them  carefully  until  they  are  a  mealy, 
dry  mass;  then  take  a  clean,  coarse,  dry  pudding-cloth, 
and,  putting  a  double-handful  of  potatoes  in  it,  wring  the 
cloth  until  the  potato  is  quite  dry;  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  potatoes  are  thus  formed 
into  a  pile  of  apparently  large,  fine,  whole,  mealy  pota- 
toes. 

Stewed  Potatoes,  ivith  Cream. — Pare  and  boil  the  pota- 
toes, and  set  them  away  to  cool ;  cut  each  potato,  when 
cold,  into  six  or  eight  pieces ;  make  a  sauce  of  half  a  pint, 
equal  parts,  cream  and  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  and  plenty  of  sauce;  white  pepper  to  taste;  boil 
the  sauce  with  a  little  dash  of  flour  in  it,  and  stew  the  po- 
tatoes for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  just  before  removing  the 
stewpan  from  the  fire,  stir  in  two  more  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream. 

Potatoes  d  la  Maitre  $  Hotel. — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes 
into  small  round  pieces,  and  stew  as  above,  omitting  the 
cream  and  flour,  and  using  a  larger  piece  of  butter ;  use 
also  black  pepper  instead  of  white;  just  before  removing 
the  stewpan  from  the  fire  sprinkle  some  parsley  over  the 


VEGETABLES.  205 

potatoes ;  boil  up  once,  and  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish ; 
squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  the  potatoes  before 
sending  them  to  table. 

Curled  Potatoes  (Mary  Anne's). — Wash,  boil,  drain  and 
dry  as  for  "  Desiree's  Potatoes,"  and  press  through  a  per- 
forated tin.  They  are  very  good,  and  look  like  a  delicate 
sort  of  vermicelli.     Excellent  with  fish. 

Soyer's  Sausage  Potatoes. — Take  large,  fine  potatoes, 
wash,  wipe  dry,  but  do  not  peel ;  cut  off  the  tops,  and  with 
a  scoop  cut  out  a  round  piece  as  big  as  a  shilling  through 
the  potato;  insert  into  this  a  small,  lightly  fried  sausage; 
put  the  tops  on  the  potatoes,  arrange  them  carefully  in  a 
deep  dish  with  the  cut  part  uppermost,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven ;  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  have  been 
cooked  ;  pin  a  napkin  round  the  dish. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. — Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  peel,  wipe 
dry,  and  scoop  out  as  much  as  possible  of  the  inside;  stuff 
them  with  any  meat  or  fowl,  chopped  fine,  flavored  with 
a  very  little  onion  and  moistened  with  butter ;  replace  the 
tops  on  the  potatoes,  arrange  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
serve. 

Stuffed  Potatoes,  No.  2  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold ").— Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  and  cut 
a  round  piece  off  the  top  of  each  ;  scrape  out  the  inside 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  injure  the  skin,  and  set  aside  the  emp- 
ty cases  with  their  covers ;  wash  the  inside  carefully,  work- 
ing into  it,  while  hot,  some  butter  and  cream  ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  good  pinch  of  grated  cheese  for  each ; 
work  it  soft  with  cream,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  to 
heat,  stirring  to  prevent  burning ;  when  scalding  hot  stir 
in  one  well-beaten  egg  for  six  large  potatoes ;  boil  up  once, 
fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  replacing  the  caps;  return 
them  to  the  oven  for  three  minutes ;  arrange  on  a  napkin 


206  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

iii  a  deep  dish,  caps  uppermost ;  cover  with  a  fold  of  the 
napkin,  and  eat  hot. 

Browned  Potatoes,  with  Dripping.  —  Peel  and  parboil 
some  good  potatoes,  drain  dry,  prick  in  several  places, 
dredge  well  with  flour,  and  (after  having  first  skimmed 
the  fat  off)  arrange  them  in  the  dripping-pan  and  cook 
them  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  under  the  beef;  bake  and 
turn  them  often,  and,  when  quite  brown,  drain  on  a  wire 
sieve  or  on  paper,  and  serve  hot. 

Potato  Marbles. — Potato  marbles  are  shaped  with  the  lit- 
tle instrument  made  for  such  purposes,  and  to  be  bought  at 
all  kitchen-furnishing  shops.-  -Cut  the  marbles,  throw  them 
into  salt  and  water,  and  let  them  remain  all  night;  parboil 
them,  drop  them  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  them  a  light 
brown ;  dust  lightly-  with  roasted  parsley  before  serving. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. — Peel  the  potatoes,  slice  them  with  a 
coleslaw  cutter,  and  throw  them  into  ice- water ;  let  them 
lie  in  it  several  hours,  even  for  a  night,  and  wipe  quite 
dry ;  have  ready  a  skillet,  with  boiling  lard  quite  deep  in 
it ;  throw  the  potatoes  in,  and  they  will  brown  quickly ; 
lift  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  drain  on  a 
dish  spread  with  soft  paper. 

Potato  Balls — Duchesses. — Take  half  a  dozen  potatoes, 
boil  them,  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  and  work  into  them, 
in  a  bowl,  one  gill  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ; 
add  pepper,  salt,  a  soupgon  of  nutmeg,  and  some  parsley, 
finely  grated ;  when  they  are  well  mixed  and  smooth, 
mould  them  into  perfectly  round  balls,  flour  them,  and  fry 
them  in  hot  lard  or  butter,  rolling  them  continually  so 
that  they  may  be  evenly  browned;  drain,  and  serve  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

Potato  Souffle  is  made  according  to  the  foregoing  re- 
ceipt, beating  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately, 


VEGETABLES.  207 

the  latter  to  the  stiff  est  possible  froth ;  when  all  the  in- 
gredients are  mixed,  beat  very  light,  pour  into  a  buttered 
mould,  sprinkling  the  top  with  rolled  bread  crumbs  and  a 
soupgon  of  cheese  ;  bake  instantly  in  a  quick  oven. 

Tossed  Potatoes  (Mary  Anne's). — Chop  some  cold  boiled 
potatoes  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  little 
fat  of  cold  beef  also  chopped  fine;  add  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste ;  stir  and  toss  the  potatoes  about  continually,  some- 
times taking  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  shaking  it ;  cook 
quickly,  and  do  not  cease  tossing  the  potatoes  for  a  mo- 
ment; when  nicely  browned,  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish. 
They  will  be  found  delicious. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. — Cut  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
small  square  blocks  ;  shred  half  an  onion  finely  ;  drop  po- 
tatoes and  onion  into  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  light  brown  ; 
drain  on  paper  and  serve  in  a  very  hot  dish ;  dust  witli 
powdered  parsley  before  serving. 

Potatoes  with  Ham. — Boil  some  potatoes,  slice  them 
quite  thin,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  good-sized  piece  of 
butter,  and  let  them  heat  thoroughly,  but  not  fry ;  boil 
four  eggs  hard  and  chop  them  line,  and  chop  fine  about 
as  much  cold  boiled  ham  as  there  is  of  potato  ;  put  all  into 
a  dish  in  layers,  with  a  little  salt,  parsley,  and  chopped 
onion  on  each  layer;  pour  over  the  whole  four  large  eup- 
fuls  of  cream ;  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  the 
bread  crumbs  with  small  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 

Potato  Scallops. — Boil  some  potatoes,  slice  them  fine, 
and  heat  as  above  ;  put  them  into  scallop  shells  which  have 
been  previously  buttered  and  dusted  with  bread  crumbs ; 
fill  the  scallop  shells  only  half  full  of  potato,  then  add 
some  egg  and  cream  beaten  up  together ;  sprinkle  the  top 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


208  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Fried  Potatoes,  No.  1.  —  Pare  the  potatoes  raw,  and 
cut  them  lengthwise  into  slices ;  cut  these  again  into  thin 
strips;  lay  in  ice- water  for  half  an  hour;  drain,  dry  thor- 
oughly, and  drop  into  boiling  lard ;  when  brown  put  them 
into  a  colander  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  drain;  serve 
hot. 

Fried  Potatoes,  No.  2. —  Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes 
into  bits,  season  witli  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  lightly  in 
dripping  or  butter,  turning  them  constantly  until  nicely 
browned. 

Piquant  Potatoes  a  la  Baviere  (Frau  von  P.  zu  P.). — 
Slice  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  very  thinly  ;  then  beat  up 
in  a  bowl  some  very  rich  sweet  or  sour  cream,  adding  just 
enough  French  mustard  to  give  it  a  piquant  taste ;  then 
take  a  wide,  deep  dish,  butter  it  carefully,  and  lay  a  layer 
of  the  potatoes  on  the  bottom ;  stick  little  bits  of  butter 
thickly  on  the  top  of  this  layer,  then  put  a  layer  of  slices 
of  hard-boiled  egg,  then  more  potato,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full ;  each  layer  must  be  sprinkled  with  salt 
and  dotted  with  little  bits  of  butter,  also  moistened  suffi- 
ciently with  cream;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is 
full;  then  pour  in  the  remainder  of  the  cream,  dust  the 
top  lightly  with  bread  crumbs,  and  heat  in  the  oven ;  serve 
with  a  napkin  pinned  round  the  dish. 

Potato  Cakes,  No.  1. — Mash  as  above  directed,  form 
(when  cold)  the  potato  into  small  round  cakes  (size  of  a 
tumbler),  flour  well,  and  bake  on  a  buttered  pan  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Potato  Cakes,  No.  2. — Proceed  as  above,  but  fry  in  lard 
or  sweet  dripping  until  brown. 

Broiled  Potatoes  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). 
— Cut  whole  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  into  slices  a  quar- 


VEGETABLES.  209 

ter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over 
a  hot,  bright  fire. 

Potato  Ribbon  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). — 
Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  an  hour ;  then  pare  with  a 
small  knife  round  and  round  in  one  continuous  curling 
strip;  drop  into  boiling  lard  or  clarified  drippings,  drain, 
and  arrange  neatly  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potato  Hay  (German  receipt). — Prepare  as  above  and 
lay  in  ice-water ;  then  with  a  potato-cutter  cut  the  potato 
into  small,  fine,  thin  snips  or  straws;  fry  as  above  di- 
rected. 

Mashed  Potatoes  (Soyer). — Boil  potatoes  until  mealy, 
rub  off  the  skins,  remove  the  specks,  put  them  into  a  bowl, 
and  take  two  forks  in  one  hand  with  the  points  of  the 
prongs  turned  outward ;  break  the  potatoes  with  them ; 
while  breaking  add  butter  and  milk — an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  a  gill  of  milk  to  every  dozen  potatoes ;  salt  and 
white  pepper  to  taste.  The  potatoes  should  be  beaten 
a  great  deal  until  quite  light ;  they  should  never  be 
hard  like  paste,  as  is  the  case  if  they  are  stirred  with  a 
spoon. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Browned,  No.  1. — Proceed  as  above, 
form  into  a  mound,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  brown  ;  glaze 
with  butter,  and  serve. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Browned,  No.  2. — Mash  as  above,  add- 
ing a  very  little  parsley  and  boiled  onion,  form  into  small 
oval  balls,  dredge  with  flour,  and  put  under  the  meat  half 
an  hour  before  it  is  served ;  drain  dry,  and  arrange  round 
the  meat. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  to  Boast — Choose  large,  fine  potatoes ; 
wash,  wipe  dry,  and  bury  in  hot  wood  ashes  or  embers  un- 


210  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

til  cooked ;  wipe  clean,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin  in  a 
hot  dish. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. — Wash,  wipe  dry,  and  place  them 
on  the  shelf  of  the  range  oven  ;  watch  them,  and  from  time 
to  time  turn  them  that  they  may  cook  mealy  ;  when  done, 
which  can  be  told  by  squeezing  them,  take  them  from  the 
oven  and  keep  them  in  a  hot  place  until  ready  to  serve ; 
serve  in  their  skins  on  a  folded  napkin  ;  eat  with  salt  and 
butter. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Fried.—  Pare  the  potatoes  raw  and  cut 
them  lengthwise  in  slices ;  have  a  pot  of  boiling  lard  ready, 
into  which  drop  the  slices ;  have  ready  a  colander,  and  dry 
the  potatoes  in  it  in  a  hot  oven. 

Broiled  Sweet  Potatoes. — Parboil,  cut  lengthwise  into 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  broil  on  a  buttered 
gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  salt  the  po- 
tatoes lightly,  and  dot  them  with  bits  of  butter. 

Sweet  Potatoes  with  Cream. — Wash  them  well,  scrape  or 
pare,  and  if  very  large  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise ;  drop 
into  boiling  water;  when  boiled  drain,  dry,  and  shake; 
when  quite  dry  season  as  follows :  For  six  persons  put  in 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  little  white  pepper,  a  tablespoon ful  of  sugar  sprinkled 
evenly  over  them,  and  half  a  cupful  of  good,  sweet  cream  ; 
cover  tightly,  and  let  them  stand  on  the  fire  about  five 
minutes  before  serving. 

South  Carolina  Mode  of  Boiling  Pice. — Wash  the  rice 
in  cold  water,  pick  it  well,  and  let  it  lie  in  cold  water  un- 
til you  are  ready  to  cook  it ;  then  pour  the  water  off,  and 
sprinkle  the  rice  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  slightly 
salted;  boil  it  steadily  for  twenty  minutes,  then  take  it 
off  the  fire  and  drain  all  the  water  from  it ;  place  the  sauce- 


VEGETABLES.  211 

pan,  with  the  lid  partly  off,  on  a  corner  of  the  fire,  where 
it  is  only  moderately  warm,  to  allow  the  rice  to  "soak"  or 
dry.  The  moisture  will  pass  off,  and  each  grain  of  rice, 
swelled  and  burst  open,  will  stand  alone.  When  served 
the  grains  will  fall  apart  if  shaken.  This  is  the  only 
method  of  preparing  rice  to  be  eaten  as  a  vegetable. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Boil  about  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  a 
quart  of  milk;  when  it  is  thick  and  stiff  take  it  off  the 
lire,  add  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ; 
set  it  away  until  it  is  cold  enough  to  form  into  oval  balls ; 
dip  them  into  yolk  of  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  lard. 

.Boiled  Sea-kale. — Pick  over  very  carefully,  tie  in  bunch- 
es, and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour;  put  into  salted  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  until  tender ; 
remove  the  thread,  place  on  buttered  toast,  butter  abun- 
dantly, and  serve. 

Stewed  Sea-hale. — Wash,  clip  off  the  stems,  tie,  and  pro- 
ceed as  above,  but  boil  only  fifteen  minutes  ;  drain,  remove 
the  threads,  and  put  into  another  saucepan  with  a  little 
rich  gravy ;  stew  until  tender,  dish,  and  serve. 

Ocra. — Wash,  pick,  and  boil,  in  enough  salted  water  to 
cover  them,  until  tender ;  drain  thoroughly,  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  This  sauce 
should  be  boiling  hot. 

Kale-cannon. — Take  equal  quantities  of  boiled  cabbage 
and  potatoes ;  chop  the  cabbage  fine  and  mash  the  pota- 
toes ;  chop  up  and  mix,  also,  one  large  boiled  onion ;  mix 
these  all  well  together,  adding  a  large  lump  of  butter,  salt, 
and  black  pepper ;  stew  slowly  over  a  moderate  fire,  and 
put  into  a  covered  dish. 


212  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Squash,  Boiled. — Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces ;  put  them 
over  the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and 
keep  the  pot  covered ;  when  they  are  tender  enough  drain 
thoroughly,  mash  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt. 

Squash,  Baked. — These  receipts  apply  only  to  the  mar- 
row squash.  Prepare  as  for  boiling,  and  put  into  a  pan 
in  a  very  slow  oven ;  put  some  water  in  the  pan  to  keep 
them  from  burning ;  then,  when  cooked,  mash  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt. 

Summer  Squash  or  Cymoling. — Pare,  quarter,  take  out 
the  seeds,  and  lay  the  pieces  in  cold  water ;  then  boil  un- 
til very  tender ;  drain  thoroughly ;  mash  soft  and  smooth 
with  butter,  white  pepper,  and  salt. 


Winter  Squash. — Pare,  seed,  and  quarter  as  above;  let 
it  lie  in  cold  water  for  two  hours  before  cooking;  then 
boil  until  very  tender,  and  mash,  etc.,  as  above. 


Stewed  Pumpkin. — Cut  in  two,  seed,  slice,  and  pare; 
soak  in  cold  water  for  one  hour ;  then  put  over  the  fire  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often  un- 
til it  breaks ;  drain,  press,  and  mash  through  a  colander ; 
then  return  to  the  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  stir  rapidly  until  heated 
through. 

Baked  Pumpkin. — Choose  a  fine,  rich  pumpkin  ;  seed, 
pare,  quarter,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick ;  arrange 
in  a  wide,  shallow  baking-pan  with  a  little  water,  two  slices 
deep,  and  bake  very,  very  slowly  until  dry  and  tender; 
then  butter  each  strip  on  both  sides,  and  eat  with  bread- 
and-butter. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. — Boil  and  chop  very  fine,  or  rub 


VEGETABLES.  213 

through  a  colander ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  in, 
while  warm,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  (this  is 
for  a  large  dish) ;  put  into  a  saucepan  and  heat,  stirring 
constantly ;  when  smoking  hot  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  white  sugar ;  boil  up  once, 
still  stirring,  and  press  firmly  into  a  hot  bowl  or  other 
mould ;  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  boiled 
eggs. 

Boiled  Spinach. — Imprimis,  always  buy  enough  spinach, 
as  it  shrinks  terribly  in  cooking ;  a  peck  suffices  for  a  fam- 
ily of  four  or  five.  Pick  it  over  very  carefully — it  is  apt  to 
be  gritty — wash  in  several  waters,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  last 
half  an  hour  at  least ;  take  out  with  your  hands,  shaking 
each  bunch  well,  and  put  into  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt;  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  when  tender, 
drain  thoroughly,  chop  very  fine,  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  to  taste ; 
stir  until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  dish,  and  shape  into  a  flat- 
topped  mound  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  ;  slice  some 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  top. 

Or,  for  spinach  glace,  rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a 
powder,  mix  with  butter,  and  when  your  mound  is  raised, 
spread  smoothly  over  the  flat  top.  Four  eggs  will  dress  a 
good-sized  dish.  Cut  the  whites  into  rings,  and  garnish, 
laying  them  on  the  yellow  surface.  This  makes  a  pleasant 
dressing  for  the  spinach. 

Mashed  Turnips. — Peel,  lay  in  slightly  salted  cold  wa- 
ter for  half  an  hour,  put  on  in  boiling  water,  boil  tender, 
mash  in  the  colander  with  a  wooden  spoon,  stirring  in  at 
the  last  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  serve  hot. 

If  eaten  with  boiled  corned  beef,  you  may  take  a  little 
of  the  liquor  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  is  cooking; 
put  it  into  a  saucepan,  boil  up  once  to  throw  off  the  scum, 
skim  clean,  and  cook  turnips  in  this. 


214  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Or,  if  the  turnips  are  young,  rub  them,  when  tender, 
through  the  colander ;  add  a  little  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  heat  to  boiling  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and  serve. 

Young  Turnips,  Boiled  Whole.  —  Pare  smoothly,  and 
trim  all  into  the  same  size  and  shape ;  lay  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour;  put  on  in  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  butter,  and  stew  until  tender ;  drain  dry  without 
crushing  or  breaking  them,  pile  in  a  deep  dish,  and  cover 
with  a  rich  white  sauce;  eat  hot. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Put  ten  or  twelve  large,  ripe  tomatoes 
into  a  pan,  and  pour  scalding  water  over  them  to  remove 
the  skins ;  peel  and  cut  out  all  the  hard  parts,  then  cut  in 
half  horizontally  and  take  the  seeds  out;  mince  an  onion 
fine  and  add  it,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  put  them 
on  to  stew  in  a  pipkin  and  let  them  simmer  several  hours, 
the  longer  the  better ;  when  they  have  stewed  an  hour,  add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  rolled  bread  crumbs ;  stir  well,  and  twenty  minutes 
later  add  three  lumps  of  loaf  sugar. 

Ochra  and  Tomatoes. — Stew  for  an  hour  a  can  of  toma- 
toes, adding  pepper  and  salt ;  wash  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  young  and  tender  ochra,  cut  off  the  stems,  throw  them 
into  the  stewpan  with  the  tomatoes  ;  and  let  them  all  stew 
gently  until  the  ochra  begins  to  open;  then  stir  them  well; 
add  a  little  onion  to  the  tomatoes ;  when  first  put  on  sea- 
son with  pepper  (red)  and  salt,  s»tir  in  two  lumps  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Scallop  of  Tomato  and  Ochra. — Prepare  as  above,  ar- 
range in  a  baking-dish  with  layers  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake.     Very  good. 

Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  Rice. — Boil  one  pint  of  rice,  and 
mix  in  it,  while  hot,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter,  and  pep- 


VEGETABLES.  215 

per  and  salt  to  taste;  add  one  can  of  tomatoes  and  one  tea- 
spoonfnl  of  sugar;  bake  in  a  well-greased  pan. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  and  Green  Com. — Make  as  above, 
substituting  for  the  rice  a  pint  of  green  corn  cut  from  the 
cob  and  boiled,  and  seasoning  with  some  fat  pork  minced 
fine,  a  chopped  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar ;  pack  in  a 
pudding-dish  in  layers ;  let  the  top  layer  be  tomatoes,  but- 
ter, and  seasoning;  sift  rolled  bread  crumbs  over  the  top 
to  brown  the  scallop;  bake  covered  half  an  hour;  then 
uncover  and  brown. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. — Peel  and  cut  in  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick ;  pack  in  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  lay- 
ers with  a  forcemeat  made  of  rolled  bread  crumbs,  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  white  sugar ;  spread  thickly 
upon  each  stratum  of  tomatoes,  and  when  the  dish  is  near- 
ly full,  put  tomatoes  uppermost,  a  good  bit  of  butter  upon 
each  one ;  dust  with  pepper  and  a  little  sugar ;  strew  with 
dried  bread  crumbs,  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour,  remove  the 
lid,  and  bake  brown. 

Tomatoes  and  Eggs. — Peel  the  skins  from  a  dozen  large 
tomatoes,  put  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  add 
a  small  onion  minced  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; 
fry  the  tomatoes,  and  from  time  to  time  chop  them  while 
frying  ;  when  the  tomatoes  are  well  cooked  break  six  eggs 
into  the  pan,  stir  the  whole  quickly,  and  serve  hot. 

Baked  Tomatoes,  Stvffed. — Take  fine,  large  tomatoes, 
cut  a  piece  off  the  top,  and  with  an  apple-corer  or  sharp 
knife  carefully  remove  the  hard  part  in  the  middle  of  the 
tomato,  and  scoop  out  as  large  a  hole  as  possible  without 
spoiling  the  shape  ;  make  a  stuffing  of  rolled  bread  crumbs, 
a  very  little  onion  mashed  to  a  pulp,  a  pinch  of  white  sug- 
ar, salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  tomato  mashed  smooth, 
and  enough  melted  butter  to  bind  all  well  together;  fill 


216  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

each  of  the  tomatoes  with  this,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
on  top,  and  bake  them  slowly  in  the  oven. 

Fried  Tomatoes,  Stuffed. — Prepare  as  above,  but  divide 
in  the  middle ;  when  well  stuffed  fry  in  butter. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Prepare  the  tomatoes,  and  season 
them  exactly  as  for  stewing ;  place  them  in  a  baking-dish 
in  layers,  with  bread  crumbs  between,  and  little  dots  of 
butter ;  put  the  dish  in  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour  or  longer. 

Sliced  Baked  Tomatoes. — Cut  them  in  slices  without  re- 
moving the  skin,  and  put  about  three  layers  in  a  deep  pie 
plate;  sprinkle  on  each  layer  pepper,  salt,  and  bread  crumbs, 
with  butter  on  the  crumbs ;  bake  slowly  for  three  hours. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Cut  them  in  slices,  flour  them  well, 
and  fry  them  slowly  in  the  fat  from  fried  pork. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. — Select  large  firm  ones,  and  do  not 
peel ;  slice  half  an  inch  thick,  and  broil  upon  an  oyster 
gridiron  ;  a  few  minutes  will  cook  them  ;  have  ready  in  a 
cup  some  hot  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a 
little  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  ;  as 
soon  as  the  tomatoes  are  done,  dip  each  piece  in  the  mixt- 
ure, and  lay  on  a  hot  chafing-dish ;  when  all  are  dished, 
heat  the  rest  of  the  sauce  to  a  boil,  pour  upon  them,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Raw  Tomatoes. — Peel  carefully  with  a  sharp  knife ; 
slice  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish ;  dress  with  simple  French 
dressing,  with  mayonnaise,  with  Duke  of  York's  sauce, 
or  with  cold  rovigatte.  Tomatoes  are  excellent  with  any 
one  of  the  three ;  but,  perhaps,  best  of  all,  with  a  cream 
•mayonnaise.  Tomato  salad  should  always  be  set  on  the 
ice  for  two  or  three  hours  before  serving. 


MACARONI. 

Home-made  Macaroni  (Neapolitan  receipt). — Take  some 
fine  wheat  flour  and  sift  it  carefully  into  a  heap  on  your 
moulding-board ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  heap, 
and  break  into  the  hole  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  flour;  then,  with  the  aid  of  a  little  warm  wa- 
ter, work  the  flour  and  egg  into  a  smooth,  stiff  paste ;  this 
done,  proceed  to  roll  out  the  paste  with  a  rolling-pin,  sprink- 
ling a  little  sifted  flour  on  each  sheet ;  when  you  have  rolled 
out  all  the  paste  into  very  thin  sheets,  cut  each  sheet  with 
a  paste-cutter  into  strips,  stars,  etc. ;  then  put  the  paste  for 
three  or  four  hours  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  You  may  then 
use  it  for  macaroni  soup,  macaroni  vol  au  vent,  etc.  It  is 
extremely  delicate,  and  preferred  by  .all  Italian  bon-vivants 
to  bought  macaroni. 

Macaroni,  Plain. — Put  in  an  iron  stewpan  two  quarts 
of  water;  allow  it  to  boil;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
and  one  ounce  of  butter,  then  add  one  pound  of  macaroni ; 
boil  till  tender,  but  let  it  be  rather  firm  to  the  touch  ;  it  is 
then  ready  for  use,  either  in  soup,  pudding,  or  to  be  dressed 
with  cheese.  It  should  always  be  drained  in  a  colander 
before  using  it. 

Macaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce. — Prepare  the  macaroni 
as  above,  drain  on  a  colander,  put  into  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
over  it  a  rich,  thick  tomato  sauce. 

Macaroni  Stewed  with  Brown  Gravy.  —  Prepare  the 
macaroni  as  above.     To  prepare  the  sauce,  cut  a  pound  of 

10 


218  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

absolutely  lean  beef  into  the  smallest  possible  dice,  and 
stew  for  two  hours.  The  water  should  be  cold  when  the 
meat  is  put  in.  At  the  end  of  the  first  half-hour  add  a 
pint  of  onions  peeled,  sliced,  and  lightly  fried  in  butter; 
at  the  end  of  two  hours  strain,  add  a  teaspoonf ul  of  cara- 
mel for  browning  and  the  same  of  browned  flour,  and  pour 
over  the  macaroni. 

Macaroni  with  Liver. — Take  equal  quantities  of  chick- 
en liver  and  calf's  liver,  and  boil  in  water  which  has  been 
very  slightly  salted;  boil  also  with  the  liver  an  onion,  a 
spoonful  of  mushroom  powder,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
glassful  of  marsala,  a  laurel  leaf,  also  a  little  grated  rind 
of  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  burned  sugar ;  when  cooked  rub 
the  liver  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding,  little  by  little, 
enough  melted  butter  to  moisten  it;  work  into  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  little 
cloves,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  work  all  together  thoroughly  and 
smoothly;  meanwhile  have  ready  some  cold  boiled  maca- 
roni, butter  a  timbale  mould,  and  line  it  with  the  maca- 
roni and  fill  it  with  the  liver,  putting  in  also,  at  proper  in- 
tervals, square  and  triangular  bits  of  cold  tongue,  and  some 
bits  of  the  inside  of  the  gizzard  of  fowls  cut  to  imitate 
truffles ;  cover  the  timbale,  and  heat  the  macaroni  and  liv- 
er a  bain-marie  for  half  an  hour;  turn  out  and  serve  hot. 

Macaroni  Baked  with  Cheese. — Put  three  ounces  of  mac- 
aroni into  a  pint  of  water  wTben  the  water  is  bubbling,  and 
boil  until  tender;  then  drain  thoroughly,  and  put  into  a 
deep  earthenware  pie-dish  in  the  following  manner  :  Grate 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  Parmesan  cheese ;  put  a  lay- 
er of  macaroni  and  a  layer  of  cheese  alternately  until  the 
dish  is  filled,  taking  care  to  sprinkle  a  soupgon  of  cayenne 
over  each  layer;  then  heat  in  a  saucepan  five  tablespoon- 
f  uls  of  cream  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ; 
when  boiling  pour  this  over  the  macaroni ;  then  with  two 
silver  forks  toss  the  whole  mass  together  until  thoroughly 


MACARONI.  219 

mixed;  again  dust  the  top  with  grated  cheese,  cover  with 
a  thick  layer  of  bread  crumbs  dotted  with  little  bits  of 
fresh  butter;  put  into  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and 
serve  in  the  dish  with  a  clean  napkin  pinned  round  it. 

Jugged  Macaroni. — Put  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  en- 
tirely freed  from  skin  and  fat,  into  a  jar  with  some  maca- 
roni (pipe  macaroni  is  best  for  this  purpose),  an  onion 
minced  fine,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  tomatoes  peeled,  sliced, 
and  cored,  two  or  three  mushrooms,  as  many  truffles  in 
thin  slices,  the  half  of  a  small  red-pepper  pod,  and  two  or 
three  peppercorns.  The  jar  should  be  well  rubbed  with 
garlic  beforehand,  and  enough  cold  water  poured  in  to 
barely  cover  the  bottom  of  it;  the  meat  should  be  cut  into 
strips;  cook  very  slowly — the  slower  the  better — a  bain- 
marie,  keeping  the  jar  hermetically  sealed  ;  the  beef  should 
cook  for  at  least  three  hours  before  adding  the  vegetables; 
the  vegetables  again  for  two  hours  and  a  half  or  three  before 
putting  in  the  macaroni ;  the  macaroni,  of  course,  should 
cook  until  tender;  serve  with  the  sauce  in  which  it  has 
been  cooked.  The  sauce  should  be  strained  through  a  col- 
ander. 

Stuffed  Macaroni. — Take  large  pipe  macaroni  (as  large, 
if  possible,  as  Italian  bread) ;  break  it  as  nearly  as  possible 
into  even  lengths;  then  stuff  each  piece  of  macaroni  with  a 
mince  composed  of  cold  chicken  chopped  fine,  some  calves 
brain  (which  should  previously  have  been  boiled),  some 
bread  crumbs  soaked  in  good  stock,  a  little  grated  Parme- 
san cheese,  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  a  little 
powdered  parsley ;  cook  the  macaroni,  when  stuffed,  for 
twenty  minutes  or  longer  in  a  little  thin  broth  ;  pour  some 
tomato  sauce  over  it  and  serve. 

Macaroni  with  Giblet  Sauce. — Break  the  macaroni  into 
two-inch  lengths,  and  stew  in  boiling  water  until  tender ; 
prepare  the  giblet  sauce  beforehand  ;  chop  the  giblets  fine. 


220  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

and  stew  them  in  just  broth  enough  to  cover  them  until 
they  are  tender;  when  nearly  cooked  add  a  teacupful  of 
strong  stock  thickened  with  browned  flour;  boil  up  once 
before  serving,  arrange  the  macaroni  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish,  and  pour  the  giblet  sauce  (which  should  be  as  thick 
as  a  ragout)  all  round  it;  garnish  with  the  round,  unbro- 
ken yolks  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  is  a  very  pret- 
ty dish,  and  is  called  by  the  Italians  macaroni  reale. 

Macaroni  a  VAbeille. — One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pipe 
macaroni,  scalded  until  tender,  and  cut  into  pieces  one 
third  of  an  inch  long. 

Mince  of  every  kind  of  cold  meat,  fowl,  or  game ;  add 
some  ham  chopped  fine,  some  pepper,  salt,  a  sou/peon  of 
cayenne,  a  teaspoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  and  the  same 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  tablespoon ful  of  mixed 
chopped  onion  and1  sweet  herbs;  pour  over  the  mince 
enough  brown  gravy  to  moisten  it  well;  butter  a  basin 
and  line  it  completely  wTith  macaroni,  sticking  the  pieces 
so  closely  together  as  to  give  the  appearance  of  honey- 
comb ;  then  fill  with  the  mince,  covering  the  top  with 
macaroni;  tie  a  pudding- cloth  over  the  basin,  and  boil 
one  hour  if  the  basin  is  large ;  take  it  out  of  the  water 
five  minutes  before  turning  it  out  of  the  mould,  and  serve 
with  a  strong  brown  gravy  poured  over  it. 

Macaroni  d  la  Richelieu. — Three  ounces  of  macaroni 
boiled  until  tender ;  two  eggs  beaten  light ;  some  cold  veal 
and  lean  ham  minced  very  fine  ;  a  pinch  of  pepper ;  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  sugar ;  a  little  grated  lemon  peel. 

Mix  the  mince  well  and  smoothly;  then  butter  a  melon- 
shaped  mould  and  line  with  the  macaroni,  fill  up  with 
the  mince,  and  boil  five  minutes ;  turn  out  of  the  mould, 
and  serve  with  good  gravy  poured  over  it. 

Timbale  of  Macaroni  and  Chicken. — Butter  a  timbale 
mould  well,  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs,  and  line  with 


MACARONI.  221 

puff  paste ;  fill  with  the  following  mixture  :  Some  maca- 
roni boiled  in  water  with  an  ounce  of  butter ;  chicken 
skinned,  boned,  and  fricasseed ;  half  a  pint  of  strong 
stock  ;  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  When  the  maca- 
roni has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain  and  return  it  to  the 
pan  ;  add  the  stock,  boil  it  slowly  on  the  stove  until  re- 
duced, then  put  in  the  chicken  and  cheese,  and  toss  until 
thoroughly  heated  ;  remove  from  the  stove,  and  when  cold 
pour  into  the  timbale  mould ;  cover  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven ;  turn  out  of  the  form  and  serve  in  the  timbale  of  pabte. 

Macaroni  a  VAmalfi. — Butter  a  timbale  form,  and  line 
it  with  half  puif  paste,  very  slightly  sweetened ;  prepare 
the  macaroni  as  directed  in  No.  1,  and  put  it  when  cold 
into  the  timbale,  dotting  each  layer  wTith  butter,  and  dust- 
ing it  lightly  with  dried  and  grated  ham  ;  cover,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven ;  turn  out  of  the  tin  form,  and  serve  in  the 
timbale  of  paste;  eat  very  hot. 

Macaroni  a  la  Sorrento. — Prepare  the  macaroni  as  di- 
rected in  No.  1,  but  after  draining  return  it  to  the  pan  and 
add  four  and  a  half  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  a  little  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  In  another  saucepan  have  ready  some 
small  flat  cakes  made  of  boiled  mush  ;  toss  these  about 
until  the  macaroni  is  ready  ;  arrange  these  cakes  in  a  circle 
on  a  round  dish  ;  heap  the  macaroni  in  the  middle,  and 
pour  the  cheese  and  butter  over  all. 

Tortelli  alia  Bolognese. — Take  some  home-made  maca- 
roni, made  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  but,  instead 
of  cutting  it  into  strips,  cut  it  into  small  squares,  and  put 
into  the  middle  of  each  square  a  teaspoonful  of  mince; 
fold  the  square  carefully,  taking  care  that  the  sides  over- 
lap, so  that  there  is  no  possibility  of  the  tortello's  bursting 
open ;  then  drop  into  boiling  broth,  and  cool  for  twenty 
minutes  over  a  quick  fire.  They  may  be  served  in  soup, 
or  separately,  in  a  dish,  with  tomato,  giblet,  or  spinach 
sauce  poured  over  them. 


222  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Tuscan  Lambkins. — Cut  some  home-made  macaroni  into 
small  squares  as  above  ;  in  the  middle  of  each  square  put 
a  spoonful  of  mince,  made  in  the  following  manner :  Chop 
very  finely  the  white  meat  of  some  cold  boiled  chicken, 
and  mix  with  it  some  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  cream,  some 
calves'  brain,  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  a  little  powdered 
roasted  parsley,  a  little  boiled  celery,  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
salt  to  taste,  about  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  a  soiupqon  of  nutmeg;  chop  all  the  ingredients  fine, and 
mix  smoothly  together  ;  fold  the  paste  carefully  round  the 
mince,  and  drop  each  ball  or  square  into  boiling  broth,  and 
cook  as  above ;  meanwhile  cook  in  another  stewpan  some 
onions  chopped  fine,  some  celery,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  some  butter;  add  a  very  little 
water,  and  stir  continually ;  when  nearly  cooked,  add  a 
spoonful  of  brown  flour,  some  tomatoes  stewed  and  strained 
through  a  colander,  and  a  pinch  of  burned  sugar  ;  arrange 
the  "lambkins"  in  layers  in  a  deep  dish,  pouring  the 
sauce  above  mentioned  over  each  layer,  and  sprinkling 
each  layer  also  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  ;  use  abun- 
dance of  both  sauce  and  cheese.  These  little  "  lambkins," 
if  properly  prepared,  will  be  found  very  good. 

Genoese  Lasagne. — Take  some  home-made  macaroni, 
cut  into  strips  an  inch  wide  and  four  inches  long ;  cook 
in  good  broth,  drain  and  arrange  in  a  dish,  pouring  over 
them  a  sauce  made  of  beef  essence,  thickened  with  grated 
fillet  of  beef,  and  finely  chopped  onion  and  celery  ;  the  fillet 
of  beef,  onions,  and  celery  should  be  fried  in  butter  to  a 
light  brown  before  adding  them -to  the  beef  juice;  the 
beef  juice  should  heat  a  bain-marie,  and  the  onions,  fillet, 
and  celery  be  dropped  in  boiling  hot ;  the  sauce  thus  pre- 
pared should  be  poured  at  once  over  the  lasagne. 

Panned  Macaroni. — Take  some  home-made  macaroni 
paste,  and,  after  rolling  it  out  as  thin  as  possible,  cut  into 
strips  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide;  set  away  to  dry  for 


MACARONI.  223 

four  or  five  hours,  and  then  drop  into  boiling  water, 
slightly  salted ;  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes ;  have 
ready  a  large,  wide,  and  very  shallow  earthen  dish  ;  butter 
this  dish,  and  line  completely  with  finely  rolled  and 
browned  bread  crumbs ;  cover  with  a  layer  of  macaroni. 
If  the  dish  be  so  shallow  that  it  will  only  admit  of  one 
thick  layer  of  macaroni,  so  much  the  better;  stick  little  bits 
of  fresh  butter  among  the  macaroni,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
rolled  bread  crumbs  and  grated  Sardinian  cheese,  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven. 


SALADS. 

Rules  for  Salad  Dressing. — "The  dressing  of  the  salad 
should  be  saturated  with  oil,  and  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt  before  the  vinegar  is  added.  It  results  from  this 
process  that  there  never  can  be  too  much  vinegar;  for, 
from  the  specific  gravity  of  the  vinegar  compared  with 
oil,  what  is  moie  than  useful  will  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl.  The  salt  should  not  be  dissolved  in  the  vinegar, 
but  in  the  oil,  by  which  means  it  is  more  equally  distribu- 
ted throughout  the  salad'-'  (Chaptal,  a  French  chemist). 
The  Spanish  proverb  says:  "A  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  nig- 
gard for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a.  madman  to 
mix  the  whole  together." 

Mayonnaise.  —  The  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs ;  fine  oil  of 
Lucca  enough  to  work  the  mayonnaise  to  a  cream ;  salt 
to  taste;  mustard  to  taste;  vinegar  to  taste;  a  tiny — the 
very  tiniest — pinch  of  powdered  sugar. 

Break  the  eggs  very  carefully,  and  put  the  yolks  into  a 
shallow  dish  ;  then  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop,  stirring 
steadily  one  way  with  a  wooden  or  silver  fork ;  then  add 
the  salt,  then  the  mustard  and  sugar,  and  last  of  all  the 
vinegar,  drop  by  drop.  The  stirring  should  go  on  all  the 
time  without  intermission  or  change  of  direction,  and  the 
mayonnaise,  when  finished,  should  be  of  the  consistency 
and  smoothness  of  the  richest  fresh  cream.  Lemon  juice 
may  be  substituted  for  vinegar. 

Cream  Mayonnaise. — Take  of  rich,  fresh,  thick  cream 
one  pint  —  one  half  plain,  one  half  whipped  light;  the 
yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs ;  one  teaspoonf til  of  salt ; 


SALADS.  225 

one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard ;  one  teaspoonfol  of 
white  pepper ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of  white  powdered  sugar  ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  roasted  powdered  parsley  ;  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  then  add 
the  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  grinding  them  hard  and 
rubbing  all  smoothly  together  ;  then  work  in  the  plain 
cream  drop  by  drop,  then  the  mustard,  then  the  whipped 
cream  and  parsley,  and,  lastly,  the  lemon  juice,  which 
must  be  whipped  in,  a  few  drops  at  a  time. 

Sydney  Smith's  Receipt  for  Salad  Dressing. — 

"  Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  the  kitchen  sieve, 
Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give. 
Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon  ; 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon, 
Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town. 
True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 
Let  onion's  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole. 
And,  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Oh,  great  and  glorious  !   oh,  herbaceous  meat ! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad-bowl." 

Russian  Salad. — Boil  some  carrots  and  turnips  in  salt- 
ed water  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  but  do  not  let  them 
be  overdone.  When  cold,  cut  out  of  them  with  a  vegeta- 
ble scoop  a  number  of  pieces  the  size  of  an  olive;  cut 
some  beetroot  in  the  same  way,  likewise  some  truffles 
and  pickled  mushrooms  ;  have  ready  some  cold  boiled 
potatoes  prepared  in  the  same  way,  some  green  pease, 
some  haricot  beans  (cooked),  some  string  beans,  some  as- 
paragus points,  and  one  or  two  button  onions  (also  cooked) ; 
take  equal  parts  of  all  these  (except  the  onions),  two  ta- 

10* 


226  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

blespoonf nls  of  capers,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pickled  gher- 
kins, two  tablespoonfuls  of  anchovies  or  sardines,  washed 
clean,  skinned,  and  boned  ;  two  dozen  olives,  stoned;  one 
tablespoonful  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  chives.  Rub  a  dish  with  garlic,  and  arrange  the  vege- 
tables, fish,  olives,  pickles,  etc.,  symmetrically  in  it ;  sprin- 
kle over  it  a  very  little  roasted  parsley ;  then  make  a 
dressing  of  olive-oil,  vinegar,  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper, 
salt,  and  the  herbs  above  mentioned,  worked  smoothly  to- 
gether. (See  "  Mayonnaise.")  Ornament  with  hard-boiled 
eggs,  lobster  spawn,  caviare,  pickles,  truffles,  etc.,  and  with 
Spanish  capsicums  (Piementes  dulces) — a  great  addition 
on  account  of  their  exquisite  color  and  flavor. 

Dutch  Salad. — Wash,  split,  and  bone  a  dozen  ancho- 
vies, and  roll  each  one  up ;  wash,  split  and  bone  one  her- 
ring, and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces;  cut  up  into  dice  an 
equal  quantity  of  Bologna  or  Lyons  sausage,  or  of  smoked 
ham  and  sausage ;  also,  an  equal  quantity  of  the  breast  of 
cold  roast  fowl  or  cold  veal ;  add  likewise,  always  in  the 
same  quantity  and  cut  into  dice,  beetroot,  pickled  cucum- 
bers, cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  larger  dice,  and  in  quan- 
tity according  to  taste,  but  at  least  thrice  as  much  potato 
as  anything  else;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  separately, 
and  a  dozen  stoned  olives  ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  well 
together,  reserving  the  olives  and  anchovies  to  orna- 
ment the  top  of  the  bowl ;  beat  up  together  oil  and  tar- 
ragon vinegar  with  white  pepper  and  French  mustard  to 
taste ;  pour  this  over  the  salad  and  serve. 

Dutch  Salad. — Thoroughly  wash  four  soft-roed  bloaters, 
remove  the  bones  and  skin,  and  put  the  roes  aside;  ar- 
range the  four  fillets  of  each  fish  neatly  round  the  dish ; 
chop  finely  and  separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs ;  also,  some  parsley,  some  shallot  or  par- 
boiled  onion,  and  some  pickled   beetroot,  keeping  each 


SALADS.  227 

separate  ;  lay  these  different  things  in  some  sort  of  pat- 
tern in  the  centre  of  the  dish ;  take  the  roes  and  mash 
them  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  adding  enough  oil 
and  vinegar  to  make  a  thickish  sauce ;  pepper  to  taste, 
and  pour  evenly  over  the  herring  fillets. 

Pickled  Bloaters. — Take  a  dozen  bloaters ;  wash  them 
thoroughly  ;  drain  dry,  skin,  and  bone  them,  and  lay  them 
in  enough  good  milk  to  completely  cover  them.  When 
they  have  lain  in  this  for  twenty-four  hours,  drain  them 
thoroughly,  and  lay  them  in  a  pie-dish  with  half  a  dozen 
slices  of  lemon  and  the  same  quantity  of  Spanish  and 
Portugal  onion,  four  bay-leaves,  two  ounces  of  capers,  a 
dozen  cloves,  eighteen  peppercorns,  and  as  much  oil  and 
vinegar,  in  equal  proportions,  as  will  completely  cover  the 
herrings.     Lay  them  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

Artichoke  Salad. — Choose  fine,  fresh  artichokes,  not  too 
large,  and  boil  them  whole,  adding  a  little  essence  of  spin- 
ach to  preserve  their  green  color ;  when  quite  tender, 
drain,  arrange  in  a  dish,  and  set  awTay  to  cool  ;  prepare  a 
simple  dressing  of  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt ;  serve  the 
artichokes  quite  cold,  and  the  dressing  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Beet  Salad.  —  Choose  small,  young  beets,  pink  and 
white ;  boil  until  tender,  set  away  to  cool,  and  serve 
cold,  with  a  cream  mayonnaise  poured  over  them.  This 
is  a  delicious  salad,  and  is  much  prettier  if  the  beets  are 
so  young  that  they  can  be  served  whole.  Arrange  in  a 
pyramid  in  alternate  stripes  of  pink  and  white. 

Blakely  Egg  Mayonnaise.  —  Boil  hard  one  dozen  and 
a  half  of  eggs  ;  throw  them  into  cold  water ;  peel  them 
carefully,  and  cut  each  egg  in  two  crosswise ;  take  all 
the  yolks,  mash  them,  season  with  salt,  plenty  of  red 
pepper,  celery  chopped  fine,  grated  eschalottes,  horserad- 
ish scraped  very  fine,  mango  pickles  chopped,  and  moisten 


228  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

it  all  with  olive-oil ;  stuff  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
this,  make  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  arrange  the  stuffed  eggs 
on  a  dish  with  bunches  of  lettuce-hearts,  and  garnish  with 
the  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Potato  and  Herring  Salad.  —  Boil  some  potatoes  im- 
peded ;  when  cold  cut  them  in  slices,  or  with  a  potatu- 
cutter  into  tiny  balls;  peel  and  cut  also  into  balls  two 
sour  apples,  some  pickled  cucumbers,  and  one  or  two  salt 
herrings,  which  must  previously  have  been  boned;  put 
the  potatoes  into  a  salad  bowl  and  salt  and  pepper  them 
lightly ;  then  dress  with  oil  and  a  very  little  vinegar;  add 
the  herrings,  apples,  cucumbers,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onions,  and,  last  of  all,  some  pickled  beets;  stir  all  the  in- 
gredients well  together,  and  serve. 

Plain  Potato  Salad. — Peel  some  cold  boiled  potatoes 
and  slice  fine ;  rub  a  salad  bowl  with  garlic,  and  put  in 
the  potatoes ;  dress  them  with  salt,  white  pepper,  oil,  and 
vinegar,  and  add,  last  of  all,  a  tablespoonful  of  onion 
chopped  fine,  and  the  same  quantity  of  roasted  powdered 
parsley. 

Coleslaw. — Choose  a  firm  white  cabbage  and  shred  it 
fine;  do  not  chop  it;  pour  over  it  Philadelphia  sauce  for 
Coleslaw  E"o.  1  or  2 ;  the  sauce  must  be  poured  boiling 
hot  over  the  slaw,  which  must  then  be  set  away  to  cool; 
eat  cold. 

Baked-Bean  Salad. — Put  some  cold  baked  beans  in  a 
salad  bowl,  and  dress  with  vinegar,  white  pepper,  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  soupcon  of  oil. 

String-Bean  Salad. — Boil  some  string  beans  until  ten- 
der in  salt  and  water;  when  cold  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl 
which  has  been  rubbed  with  garlic ;  dress  with  salt,  pep- 
per, oil  (plenty  of  it),  and  lemon  juice  in  lieu  of  vinegar. 


SALADS.  229 

Lettuce  Salad. — Pull  the  lettuce  to  pieces  with  your  fin- 
gers, arrange  in  a  salad  bowl,  and  dress  with  salt,  pepper, 
oil,  and  vinegar;  toss  with  two  wooden  forks  until  every 
leaf  is  thoroughly  dressed. 

Or,  you  may  use  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Celery  Salad. — Wash  and  scrape  the  celery,  and  cut  into 
bits  half  an  inch  long ;  have  ready  some  good  mayonnaise 
and  pour  over  the  celery;  eat  at  once. 

Tomato  Salad. — Twelve  medium-sized  tomatoes  peeled 
and  sliced  ;  one  button  onion  chopped  fine  ;  a  mayonnaise 
made  of  the  yolks  of  six  raw  eggs  and  oil  in  proportion, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  made  mustard,  one  teaspoon  fill  of  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cayenne  pepper,  the  same  of  sugar,  and 
vinegar  to  taste. 

Set  the  salad  dish  on  the  ice  while  you  prepare  the  may- 
onnaise, which  should  be  rich  and  thick  as  cream  ;  pour 
the  mayonnaise  on  the  tomatoes,  and  leave  all  on  the  ice 
for  fifteen  minutes  longer;  then  serve. 

Or,  you  may  use  the  cream  mayonnaise,  which  is  deli- 
cious for  tomatoes. 

Cucumber  Salad. — Choose  fresh,  ripe  cucumbers;  pare, 
slice  very  thin,  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  an  hour;  then  put 
into  a  dish  rubbed  with  garlic,  and  dress  with  oil,  vinegar, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  lay  a  piece  of  ice  in  the  dish,  and  serve. 

Mixed  Summer  Salad  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold").—  Three  heads  of  lettuce;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
green  mustard  leaves ;  a  handful  of  water-cresses ;  five 
tender  radishes;  one  cucumber;  three  hard-boiled  eggs; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  made  mus- 
tard ;  one  teacupful  of  vinegar;  half  a  teacupful  of  oil. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  serve  with  a  lump  of  ice  in 
the  middle. 


230  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Water-cress  Salad. — Wash  and  pick  carefully,  pull  to 
pieces,  and  dress  with  vinegar,  oil,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Chicken  Salad. — The  white  meat  of  cold  boiled  chicken 
or  turkey ;  three  quarters  of  the  same  bulk  of  chopped 
celery  ;  a  rich  mayonnaise. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  removing  every  scrap  of  fat,  gristle, 
and  skin  ;  mix  carefully  with  the  celery,  and  set  in  a  cold 
place  while  you  mix  the  mayonnaise.  Be  sure  to  make 
enough  mayonnaise,  not  only  to  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
chicken,  but  to  lie  on  the  top;  garnish  with  a  wreath  of 
lettuce  hearts,  hard-boiled  eggs,  pickled  cucumbers  and 
beets  cut  into  shape. 

Lobster  Salad. — Pick  out  every  bit  of  meat  from  the 
body  and  claws  of  a  cold  boiled  lobster ;  lay  aside  the  cor- 
al for  the  dressing ;  when  the  lobster  is  finely  minced, 
make  a  rich  mayonnaise  dressing ;  mix  the  lobster  coral 
with  it  to  give  it  a  fine  color;  then  mix  well  and  thorough- 
ly with  the  lobster,  adding  at  the  last  moment  some  fresh, 
crisp  lettuce  leaves ;  cover  the  lobster  with  a  thick  layer 
of  mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with  lettuce  hearts  and  small 
boiled  shrimps  and  prawns. 

Salmon  Salad. — Mince  some  cold  boiled  salmon  finely, 
and  cut  the  rest  into  well-shaped  fillets  of  even  size ;  lay 
these  in  a  bath  of  oil  and  vinegar ;  mix  some  mayonnaise 
smoothly  with  the  minced  salmon,  shape  into  a  pyramid, 
and  lay  the  fillets  upright  against  the  pyramid,  filling  up 
the  interstices  between  the  fillets  with  pickled  cucumbers, 
beets,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  pretty  shapes. 

Serve  cucumbers  with  salmon  mayonnaise,  and  use  in 
preference  the  cream  mayonnaise  for  dressing  cold  salmon. 

Cheese  Salad  will  be  found  under  the  head  of  "Cheese." 

Parisienne  Salad. — Cut  into  thin  slices  a  red  beet  baked 


SALADS.  231 

in  the  oven,  also  some  boiled  celery,  and  an  equal  quantity 
of  boiled  potatoes;  put  all  into  a  salad  bowl  with  some 
grated  horseradish,-  and  dress  wTith  oil  and  vinegar ;  press 
the  yolks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs  through  a  sieve,  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  puree  of  anchovies,  and  half  a  tumblerful 
of  oil  of  Lucea ;  work  all  smoothly  together  with  a  wood- 
en spoon  ;  then  add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  good  mustard,  a  little 
tarragon  vinegar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  pickled  tunny  cut 
into  dice,  as  many  of  pickled  cucumbers  cut  into  dice,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  white  of  egg 
cut  into  dice,  a  pinch  of  chopped  tarragon,  then  the  vege- 
tables chopped  fine  and  drained  ;  mix  all  together  and  put 
into  the  salad  bowl. 

Truffle  Salad  a  la  Toulousaine. — Peel  and  slice  very 
finely  six  black  truffles ;  when  sliced  put  them  in  a  cov- 
ered jar ;  take  some  young,  fresh  artichokes,  pull  off  the 
hard  outer  leaves,  and  slice  the  inner  and  tenderer  ones 
finely ;  let  them  stand  for  ten  minutes  with  a  little  salt, 
then  brush  off  the  salt ;  pass  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  through  a  sieve  ;  mix  with  them  a  little  mustard,  half 
a  glassful  of  the  finest  oil  of  Lucca,  and  some  good  tarra- 
gon vinegar;  rub  a  salad  bowTl  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  and 
arrange  in  it  the  truffles  and  artichokes  in  alternate  layers, 
seasoning  them  lightly  with  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  with  a  little  of  the  dressing;  let  all  stand  ten  minutes, 
then  pour  in  the  rest  of  the  dressing,  and  toss  the  salad 
with  two  wooden  forks  until  it  is  thoroughly  assimilated. 

Black  Truffle  Salad  a  la  Russe. — Peel  some  raw  truf- 
fles, put  them  into  a  shallow  saucepan  with  a  little  Madeira, 
salt  slightly,  and  cook  four  minutes;  then  chop  them, put 
them  into  a  deep  dish,  season  them,  and  pour  on  a  little 
oil ;  cover,  and  let  them  soak  for  ten  minutes ;  then  dust 
with  a  pinch  each  of  tarragon,  of  parsley,  and  of  chives, 
chopped  fine,  and  add  several  spoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  ; 
mix  well,  arrange  in  a  shallow  dish,  and  cover  with  a  thick 
layer  of  mayonnaise. 


232  THE  UNKIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Mamie's  Coleslaw.  —  Cut  a  fine,  crisp  white  cabbage 
into  fine  shreds,  and  make  a  sauce  as  follows:  The  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  two  tablespoonf ills  of  the  best 
vinegar.  Beat  eggs,  butter,  and  vinegar  together,  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  then  heat  in  a  small  saucepan, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  when  smooth  and 
thick  remove  from  the  fire,  pour  into  a  bowl,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place ;  when  cool  beat  in  the  cream,  pour  over  the 
cabbage,  and  toss  with  two  silver  forks. 

Cauliflower  Slaw. — Cut  some  cold  boiled  cauliflower 
into  small  flowers,  and  pour  over  the  sauce  above  described. 
It  is  very  good. 

Marian  Sauce  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  5'). — 
Five  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  butter;  a  teacupful  of  vine- 
gar; salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  white  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard;  one 
ta"blespoonful  of  roast  parsley. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually  the  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  pepper,  then  the  parsley,  sugar,  and  mus- 
tard;  the  butter  should  be  light  as  whipped  egg;  send  to 
table  red-hot. 

Philadelphia  Sauce  for  Coleslaw,  No.  1. — One  cupful 
of  vinegar;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  ;  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt. 

Put  the  vinegar,  with  all  the  ingredients  for  the  dress- 
ing except  the  cream,  into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  and 
let  them  come  to  a  boil ;  pour  scalding  hot  over  the  slaw 
and  set  away  until  quite  cold ;  just  before  serving  add  the 
cream,  beating  it  in  with  a  silver  fork.  This  preparation 
of  coleslaw  is  very  nice  and  digestible. 

Philadelphia  Sauce  for  Coleslaw,  No.  2. — One  pint  of 


SALADS.  233 

the  best  milk  ;  one  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg ; 
two  eggs,  yolks  only ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  the  best  vin- 
egar. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
and  stir  steadily  until  the  butter  melts  and  the  sauce  thick- 
ens; do  not  allow  it  to  boil;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
slaw,  which  must  previously  have  been  cut  to  the  finest 
.  possible  shreds  and  duly  salted ;  eat  cold. 


CHEESE. 

Cheese  Salad  (Mock  Crab)  ( "  Common  -  Sense  in  the 
Household"). — Half  a  pound  of  pickled  shrimps ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  good  old  cheese  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salad 
oil ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  one  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  or  onion 
vinegar. 

Mince  the  shrimps  and  grate  the  cheese ;  work  into  the 
latter,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  various  condiments  enumerated 
above,  the  vinegar  last ;  let  all  stand  together  ten  minutes 
before  adding  the  shrimps ;  when  this  is  done,  stir  well 
for  a  minute,  and  serve  in  crab  or  scallop  shells. 

Cheese  Devils. — Half  a  pound  of  old  cheese,  grated  ;  one 
hard-boiled  egg ;  one  teacupf  ul  of  minced  chicken  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cayenne  pepper  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  white  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard ;  one  tablespoonful  of  onion  vinegar  ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  salad  oil  or  melted  butter. 

Rub  the  yolk  of  the  egg  to  a  paste  with  the  oil,  adding 
in  order-the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard,  and  cheese ;  lastly, 
the  chicken ;  serve  in  crab  or  scallop  shells. 

J^armesan  Fondue  (Brillat  Savarin).  —  Melt  half  an 
ounce  of  fresh  butter  into  a  saucepan,  stir  into  it  a  table- 
spoonful of  flour ;  when  the  two  are  well  amalgamated, 
put  in  a  small  quantity  of  milk  and  about  three  ounces  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  ;  stir  the  mixture  on  a  slow  fire 
until  it  assumes  the  appearance  of  thick  cream,  but  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  boil ;  then  add  one  clove  of  garlic,  a 


CHEESE.  235 

small  quantity  of  flour  of  mustard,  a  soupcon  of  powdered 
nutmeg,  and  some  white  pepper;  mix  thoroughly,  and, if 
required,  add  a  little  salt ;  keep  on  stirring  the  mixture  at 
a  very  moderate  heat  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  remove 
the  clove  of  garlic ;  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  and  stir 
the  contents  occasionally  until  quite  cold ;  then  stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  up  with  a  little  milk 
and  strained,  and  finally  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep  round  tin  ;  set 
it  in  the  oven  (which  must  not  be  too  hot);  in  about 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes  the  fondue  will  have  risen  and 
taken  color ;  pin  a  napkin  round  it,  and  serve  quickly. 

Welsh  Rarebit  of  Cheese  d  la  Braine. — This  dish  must 
be  made  on  the  table,  in  the  dining-room,  and  in  presence 
of  the  guests,  as  the  delay  of  a  moment  is  fatal  to  its  ex- 
cellence ;  have  ready  some  old  Dutch  or  double  Glouces- 
tershire cheese,  not  too  hard  ;  cut  off  the  rind  and  put  into 
a  silver  chafing-dish,  with  one  quarter  the  quantity  of  but- 
ter; stir  continually,  and  as  it  melts  add  more  butter,  the 
proportion  being  one  third  as  much  butter  as  cheese; 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  mustard  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  soxijpcon  of  onion  or  celery  vinegar ;  meanwhile  some 
white  bread  must  have  been  toasted  on  both  sides,  and 
must  be  handed  round  to  the  guests  hot,  when  the  rarebit 
begins  to  boil  /  each  guest  should  butter  his  toast  quickly 
on  both  sides,  and  the  plates  must  be  passed  rapidly  to  the 
cook  in  chief,  who  will  pour  the  boiling  rarebit  over  the 
toast.  Pale  ale  should  be  taken  with  it;  a  little  poured 
over  the  rarebit  is  an  improvement. 

Cheese  Aigrettes. — Three  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese:  two  ounces  of  butter;  two  ounces  of  finest  sifted 
flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  whites  of  two  (beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth),  and  a  half-pint  of  water. 

Boil  the  water  and  butter  together;  stir  the  flour  into 
this,  continuing  gently  until  it  is  cooked  (i.  e.,  when  it 


236  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

thickens) ;  remove  saucepan  from  fire,  and  throw  one  third 
quantity  of  cheese  into  the  mixture  ;  stir,  and  add  one  egg ; 
mix  and  beat  all  together,  then  add  more  cheese  and  an- 
other egg,  etc.;  when  all  are  mixed  together,  the  compound 
must  be  beaten  thoroughly  until  very  light ;  spread  it  on 
plates  to  cool ;  when  cold,  it  should  be  quite  set ;  fry  in 
boiling  lard,  dropping  in  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time ;  in 
frying,  they  swell  and  gape  before  they  are  ready. 

Cheese  Souffle. — Melt  half  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  when  well 
amalgamated,  put  in  a  small  quantity  of  milk  and  three 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  ;  stir  over  a  slow  fire  till 
like  thick  cream,  but  do  not' let  it  boil;  add  white  pepper 
and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt;  keep  on  stirring  the  mixture  at 
a  moderate  heat  for  ten  minutes ;  take  the  saucepan  from 
the  fire,  and  stir  the  contents  until  cold,  then  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  up  with  milk  and  strained, 
and  finally  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
fill  some  papers  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  for  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes. 

Piedmontese  Cheese  /Sticks.  —  Take  some  Italian  bread 
(the  slender  brown  sticks  known  in  Tuscany  as  pone  Pie- 
m,ontese)  /  cut  it  into  even  lengths  and  brown  quickly ; 
have  ready  some  melted  butter,  and  dip  the  bread  quickly 
in  it;  allow  it  to  cool  again, and  in  the  meantime  prepare 
in  a  saucepan  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  butter 
and  cream ;  add  a  soupgon  of  onions,  salt,  and  pepper  to 
taste ;  allow  this  to  come  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream, 
and  proceed  to  fill  the  Piedmontese  bread  in  the  following 
manner :  Wrap  one  end  of  the  stick  in  white  paper,  and, 
placing  it  on  end,  fill  it  with  the  cheese  cream,  which  may 
be  poured  in  through  a  tiny  paper  funnel ;  when  all  are 
filled  and  cold  roll  them  in  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  after- 
wards in  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs,  delicately  browned, 
and  mingled  with  equal  parts  of  roasted  powdered  parsley ; 


CHEESE.  237 

remove  the  paper  caps,  and  egg  and  bread-crumb  the  ends. 
This  is  an  extremely  pretty  and  savory  dish. 

Cheese  Scallop. — Soak  a  small  cupful  of  stale  browned 
bread  crumbs  in  fresh  milk ;  beat  into  this  one  large  egg, 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  melted  butter,  three  ounces  of  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  strew  bread  crumbs 
over  all,  and  bake  in  scallop  shells  to  a  delicate  brown. 

Ramakins  of  Cheese. — Scrape  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each 
of  Cheshire  and  Gloucestershire  cheese  and  good  fresh 
butter;  pound  all  in  a  mortar  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  the  inside  of  a  small  French  roll  boiled  in  cream  until 
soft ;  mix  this  paste  with  a  wineglassf ul  of  white  wine  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  as  light  as 
possible  ;  fill  small  oblong  paper  pans,  and  bake  in  a  Dutch 
oven  until  of  a  fine  brown ;  send  to  table  red-hot ;  the 
batter  for  ramakins  is  equally  good  over  macaroni  when 
boiled  tender,  or  on  stewed  broccoli,  celery,  or  cauliflower; 
a  little  of  the  gravy  the}7  have  been  stewed  in  being  put  in 
the  dish. 

Potted  Cheese,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  Cheshire  cheese, 
and  one  of  Gloucestershire;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  moun- 
tain wine,  and  two  of  made  mustard ;  pound  all  together 
in  a  marble  mortar,  and  then  pack  it  into  small  jars  for  use. 

Potted  Cheese,  No.  2. — Four  ounces  of  Cheshire  cheese, 
cut  and  pounded  ;  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  best  butter ;  one 
teaspoonf  ul  of  white  powdered  sugar,  a  little  bit  of  mace, 
and  a  glassful  of  white  wine. 

Mix  all  smoothly  together,  and  press  down  into  a  deep  pot. 

Roasted  Cheese,  Dutch  Receipt. — Three  ounces  of  fat 
Cheshire  cheese  grated,  mixed  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  three  ounces  of 
butter. 


238  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Beat  smooth  in  a  mortar,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of 
mustard,  and  salt  and  pepper ;  spread  very  thickly  upon 
squares  of  toasted  bread  ;  put  into  a  Dutch  oven,  covered 
with  a  dish  until  hot  through ;  remove  the  dish,  and  brown  ; 
serve  blazing  hot. 

Cheese  Stirabout  (Soyer). — Nearly  fill  an  iron  pot  with 
water ;  throw  in  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt ;  when  boil- 
ing, throw  in  by  degrees  some  sifted  Indian  meal,  in  the 
proportion  of  one  pound  to  every  two  quarts  of  water ; 
when  well  stirred,  remove  the  husk  which  floats  on  top, 
then  throw  in  one  pound  of  strong  cheese,  grated  ;  boil 
twenty  minutes  and  serve* 

Cheese  Bolls  (Soyer). — Take  some  nice  French  rolls ; 
cut  off  a  piece  of  the  crust,  and  pull  out  with  a  fork  as  much 
as  possible  of  the  inside  without  spoiling  the  shape  of  the 
roll ;  fill  up  with  Welsh  rarebit ;  put  the  top  on  and  serve. 
This  is  an  excellent  picnic  dish,  as  the  rolls  are  good  cold. 

Irish  Rarebit  (Soyer). — Four  ounces  of  strong  cheese ; 
one  ounce  of  butter  ;  one  gherkin  chopped  fine ;  mustard, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Heat  altogether ;  pour  hot  over  rounds  of  toast ;  put 
in  the  oven  five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Cheese  Straws,  E"o.  1. — Make  some  sheets  of  the  finest 
puff  paste ;  roll  them  out  very  thin  ;  sprinkle  lightly  with 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper ;  then  lay  one  on  top  of  the  other, 
and  roll  out  again  and  again  until  the  paste  is  nearly  as 
thin  as  tissue  paper,  and  is  evenly  salted  and  peppered ; 
cut  then  with  a  paste-cutter  into  tiny  strips  or  straws  about 
four  inches  long;  lay  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  quickly  ; 
arrange  in  a  square  pile  like  straws,  and  serve  as  cheese 
with  olives. 

Cheese  Straws,  No.  2. — Quarter  of  a  pound  of  finest  white 


CHEESE.  239 

flour,  sifted;  two  ounces  of  good  butter;  two  ounces  of 
Parmesan  cheese,  grated  ;  two  ounces  of  common  cheese, 
grated  ;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Mix  flour  and  butter  well  and  smoothly  together ;  add 
the  cheese  and  cayenne ;  work  well ;  roll  out  as  for  puff 
paste ;  cut  in  narrow  strips,  and  bake. 

Ramequins  de  Dijon. — Half  a  tumbler  of  water ;  one 
pinch  of  salt ;  one  pinch  of  white  pepper ;  half  a  coffee- 
spoonful  of  sugar;  four  to  five  ounces  of  fresh  butter; 
half  a  pound  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted  ;  four  ounces  of 
fresh  Gruyere  cheese,  chopped  fine  ;  five  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Put  the  water,  butter,  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper  into  a 
casserole ;  when  the  mixture  boils,  withdraw  it  from  the 
fire,  and  add  the  flour  gradually;  replace  the  casserole 
on  the  fire  ;  have  it  on  the  fire  a  few  moments,  stirring 
all  the  time ;  then  pour  into  another  casserole,  and  add, 
little  by  little,  the  eggs  and  the  cheese,  stirring  stead- 
ily; when  the  batter  is  stiff  take  out  a  dessertspoonful 
at  a  time,  and  arrange  in  little  ovals  on  a  buttered  baking 
dish;  glaze  the  ramequins  with  beaten  white  of  egg; 
place  on  each  a  small  slice  of  Gruyere,  cut  in  the  form  of 
a  lozenge,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


EGGS. 

Eggs,  to  Choose. — Try  the  eggs  in  a  pan  of  cold  water. 
The  freshest  sink  first ;  those  that  float  are  to  be  rejected. 
Or,  shake  the  egg  gently  at  your  ear.  If  you  hear  a  gur- 
gle or  thud  the  egg  is  bad. 

Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place.  If  you  wish  to 
keep  them  for  weeks,  grease  with  linseed-oil,  and  pack  in 
bran  or  coarse  salt,  with  the  small  end  downwards. 


.Boiled  Eggs. — Put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with 
a  tablespoon,  and  boil  steadily  three  minutes  for  soft  eggs, 
ten  for  hard. 

Or,  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes; 
they  will  be  then  of  the  consistency  of  cream ;  serve  in  a 
folded  napkin. 

Poached  Eggs. — Strain  some  boiling  water  into  a  per- 
fectly clean  saucepan ;  when  the  water  boils,  break  the 
eggs  separately  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  each  egg  carefully 
upon  the  surface  of  the  water  (first  removing  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire);  when  all  the  eggs  are  in,  return  the 
saucepan  to  the  fire,  and  boil  gently  three  minutes;  have 
some  rounds  of  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish  ;  remove  the 
eggs  from  the  saucepan  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain, 
and  lay  on  the  toast ;  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  white  pep- 
per, and  serve. 

Poached  Eggs  a  la  Crime  ("  Common-Sense  in  the 
Household  "). — Poach  as  above,  adding,  however,  a  table- 


EGGS.  241 

spoonful  of  strained  vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
water.  Prepare  a  sauce  with  one  teacupful  of  chicken 
broth,  half  a  teacupful  of  cream,  and  one  spoonful  of  but- 
ter. Let  it  heat  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly ;  then  add 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste ;  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
over  the  eggs  and  toast ;  dust  lightly  with  powdered  pars- 
ley, and  serve. 

Baked  J&ggs. — Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  break  in  six  or 
more  eggs  very  carefully ;  place  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  on 
each  egg ;  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper ;  bake  in  the 
oven  until  the  whites  are  set. 

Scalloped  Eggs. — Butter  some  scallop  shells,  and  half 
fill  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  equal  parts  of  ground  ham, 
cold  chicken,  and  bread  crumbs ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  moisten  with  melted  butter ;  break  an  egg  care- 
fully on  the  top  of  each,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
sift  with  finely  grated  bread  crumbs;  set  in  the  oven 
and  bake  eight  minutes.  These  are  equally  good  made 
with  dried  beef  grated,  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  hard- 
boiled  egg  rubbed  to  a  powder.  If  you  use  the  beef  omit 
the  chicken. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Put  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  drop  in  the  eggs  and  stir 
continually  until  they  are  cooked,  which  will  be  in  about 
three  minutes ;  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  eat  at  once. 

Stirred  Eggs  on  Mounds. — Cut  (with  a  cake-cutter)  some 
white  bread  into  rounds,  toast  on  both  sides,  butter  care- 
fully, and  heap  with  ground  ham,  grated  dried  beef,  or 
minced  chicken ;  then  put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  fr}T- 
ing-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  stir  in  four  or  five  well-beat- 
en eggs,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  powdered  parsley ; 
stir  and  toss  for  five  minutes,  then  heap  on  the  mounds, 
and  serve. 

11 


242  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Egg  Baskets. — Boil  some  eggs  hard,  cut  them  neatly  in 
half  lengthwise,  and  extract  the  yolks;  rub  these  to  a 
paste,  and  mix  with  some  cold  fowl  or  ham  chopped  fine ; 
mix  smoothly  together  with  melted  butter ;  then  fill  the 
hollowed  whites  with  the  mixture,  arrange  neatly  in  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  rich  gravy. 

Or,  you  can  serve  them  cold  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Soft  Eggs  with  Anchovy  Butter. — Choose  eight  large 
eggs,  drop  them  carefully  into  hot  water,  and  boil  five 
minutes  in  a  covered  saucepan ;  drain  and  drop  into  cold 
water  in  which  they  may  grow  cold ;  then  remove  the 
shell  carefully,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  whites ;  drop 
the  eggs  again  into  hot  water,  leaving  them  just  long 
enough  to  heat  them ;  then  arrange  them  in  a  hot  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  of  melted  butter  thickened 
with  anchovy  paste* 

Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce. — Fry  some  eggs  as  round  as 
balls ;  then  arrange  them  in  a  pyramid  on  a  very  hot  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  a  rich  tomato  sauce  ;  dust  thickly  with 
fried  bread  crumbs,  and  serve. 

Eggs  a  la  Parisienne. — Glaze  some  small  moulds  with 
a  little  good  stock,  and  dust  with  fresh  truffles  chopped  to 
the  finest  possible  mince ;  then  break  a  fresh  egg  into  each 
mould,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  in  the  oven 
for  six  or  seven  minutes ;  then  turn  out  the  moulds  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  pour  over  them  some  lobster  or  shrimp  sauce, 
and  serve. 

Farcied  Eggs. — Boil  eight  or  ten  eggs  hard,  cut  them 
in  half  lengthwise,  and  rub  the  yolks  to  a  powder ;  work 
this  to  a  paste  with  a  little  bread  crumb,  some  anchovies 
pounded  fine,  and  some  melted  butter,  also  a  handful  of 
fine  herbs  chopped  to  powder,  and  the  yolks  of  one  or  two 
raw  eggs  ;  season  the  whole  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stuff 


EGGS.  243 

the  whites  of  the  eggs ;  then  join  them  carefully,  roll  the 
egg  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
them ;  arrange  in  a  pyramid,  and  garnish  with  fried  pars- 
ley. 

Eggs  &  la  Moutglas. — Boil  some  eggs  for  five  tnimites, 
then  drop  them  into  cold  water ;  twenty  minutes  after- 
wards drain  them,  remove  the  shells,  and  with  a  tube  take 
out  the  yolks;  fill  the  hollows  with  a  moutglas,  or  fine 
mince,  composed  of  chicken  breast,  scarlet  tongue,  and 
truffles,  and  bind  with  a  little  good  sauce  or  stock;  close 
the  opening,  roll  the  eggs  in  beaten  egj,  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  quickly. 

Jumbled  Eggs  with  Shrimps. — Take  four  tablespoonf  uls 
of  cooked  shrimps  skinned  and  chopped ;  pound  the  skins 
or  shells  to  the  finest  possible  powder,  and  rub  smooth 
with  some  fresh  butter ;  then  butter  the  bottom  of  a  fry- 
ing-pan, break  eight  eggs  into  a  dish,  beat  very  light,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  soupgon  of  cayenne ;  pour 
the  eggs  into  a  buttered  frying-pan,  put  the  pan  on  the 
fire,  and  stir  the  eggs  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon ; 
when  they  begin  to  harden,  withdraw  the  pan  from  the 
fire  and  add  (still  stirring)  two  teaspoonfuls  of  rich  cream, 
and  the  red  butter  cut  into  dice ;  return  the  pan  to  the 
fire,  and  two  minutes  later  add  the  chopped  shrimps ;  stir, 
and  pour  into  a  hot  dish. 

Plover's  Eggs  in  a  Nest  of  Butter. — Test  plover's  as 
you  would  hen's  eggs.  If  they  are  fresh,  put  eighteen  or 
more  carefully  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
cook  slowly  for  eight  or  ten  minutes ;  then  drain  and  drop 
into  cold  water.  Meanwhile  make  some  cornucopias  of 
paper,  fill  them  with  soft,  fresh  butter,  and  press  out  the 
butter  through  the  small  end;  the  butter  will  issue  from 
this  hole  in  a  long,  thin  strip ;  proceed  in  this  way  to  form 
an  imitation  bird's  nest  on  the  border  of  a  round  plate; 


244  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

within  this  nest  of  butter  arrange  a  pile  of  water-cresses, 
and  put  the  eggs  on  this,  so  placing  them  as  to  form  a 
pyramid ;  put  the  dish  on  ice  until  you  are  ready  to 
serve  it. 

Breaded  Eggs. — Boil  some  eggs  hard,  remove  the  shells, 
and  cut  into  thick  slices ;  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  egg,  and 
then  in  rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  in  boiling 
lard ;  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve. 

Eggs  au  Lit. — Miuce  some  cold  corned  beef,  ham,  or 
fowl  very,  fine,  and  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  some  melted 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  parsley;  warm  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan, stirring  and  tossing  continually  ;  when  thoroughly 
heated  through  arrange  in  a  thick  layer  on  an  oval  dish, 
and  place  on  the  mince  as  many  poached  eggs  as  they  will 
hold ;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  surround  the  base  of 
the  mound  with  triangles  of  fried  bread.  This  is  simpler 
and  equally  good  if  the  mince  be  composed  only  of  equal 
quantities  of  cold  corned  beef  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Fricasseed  Eggs. — Prepare  some  stuffed  eggs  as  directed 
in  any  of  the  foregoing  receipts,  but  cutting  the  eggs  dif- 
ferently— that  is,  taking  a  slice  off  the  top,  which  you  may 
replace  when  you  have  filled  the  egg ;  then  arrange  the 
stuffed  eggs  in  a  very  hot  dish,  dust  them  thickly  with 
roasted  powdered  parsley  and  fried  bread  crumbs,  and 
then  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  Two  cupf uls  of  strong  veal  or  chicken  broth,  six  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  rich,  fresh  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Boil  up,  pour  smoking  hot  over  the  eggs,  let  them  stand 
five  minutes  closely  covered,  and  send  to  table. 

Eggs  Fried  as  Bound  as  Balls  (receipt  of  1794). — Have 
a  very  deep  frying-pan  with  three  pints  of  clarified  butter ; 
heat  the  butter  hot,  as  for  fritters,  and  stir  it  with  a  stick 
until  it  runs  round  like  a  whirlpool ;  break  an  egg  in  the 


EGGS.  245 

middle,  and  turn  it  round  with  your  stick  until  iiis  as  bard 
as  a  poached  egg.  The  whirling  round  of  the  butter  will 
make  it  as  round  as  a  ball.  Then  take  it  up  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  put  it  into  a  dish  before  the  fire.  They  will  keep 
hot  half  an  hour,  and  yet  be  soft ;  so  you  may  do  as  many 
as  you  please.  Eggs  may  be  poached  round  in  boiling 
water  in  the  same  manner. 

Eggs  Roasted  in  their  Shells. — To  be  properly  roasted, 
eggs  should  be  roasted  in  sand.  This,  of  course,  is  easily 
done  out-of-doors,  but  may  be  imitated  in-doors  by  having 
a  deep  pan  filled  with  sand,  placed  on  the  range,  or,  better 
still,  in  the  oven.  When  the  sand  is  thoroughly  heated 
through,  put  a  shovelful  of  red-hot  wood  coals  on  the  sand, 
set  the  pan  on  the  range,  and  after  a  few  moments  scrape 
the  embers  aside  and  some  of  the  surface  sand ;  have  the 
eggs  pricked  in  the  small  end  by  a  pin  or  sharp-pointed 
penknife  to  prevent  bursting ;  set  each  egg  on  end  in  the 
hot  sand,  and  cover  them  with  leaves,  and  then  with  the 
hot  sand  and  embers ;  roast  eight  minutes.  They  will  be 
as  smooth  as  velvet. 

Pickled  Eggs.— Boil  the  eggs  until  they  become  per- 
fectly hard;  then  remove  the  shells  and  lay  them  care- 
fully in  a  large-mouthed  jar ;  pour  over  them  boiling  vin- 
egar well  seasoned  with  salt,  peppercorns,  allspice,  mace, 
ginger,  cayenne,  mustard  seed,  a  few  cloves  of  garlic,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  curry;  when  cold  fasten  the  mouth 
of  the  jar  very  closely.  In  a  month  they  will  be  fit  for 
use. 

Pannikins. — Take  some  little  earthen  pans,  such  as  are 
sold  for  toy  milkpans,  capable  of  holding  one  egg  only ; 
heat  them  in  the  oven,  ancl  when  quite  hot  take  them 
out,  and  with  a  pastebrush  butter  them  inside ;  break  an. 
egg  carefully  into  each  pan  ;  set  them  in  the  oven  until  the 
white  of  the  egg  is  hard  enough  to  retain  the  form  of  the 


246  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

pan ;  turn  them  out  in. a  circle  on  the  dish  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served ;  on  the  top  of  each  sprinkle  a  little 
fresh  parsley  or  grated  ham  ;  have  ready  a  sauce  of  bread 
crumbs,  beaten  up  with  rich  gravy,  browned  and  seasoned ; 
place  this  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  eggs  enclos- 
ing it. 

Wisconsin  Eggs. — Beat  twelve  eggs  well,  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  some  salt;  have  a  lump  of 
butter  boiling  in  the  frying-pan,  and  pour  the  mixture  into 
it;  as  fast  as  the  egg  cooks  at  the  bottom,  slip  a  knife 
under,  tilting  the  pan  a  little  so  as  to  let  the  raw  egg  run 
towards  the  butter;  when  it  forms  a  little,  cut  it  in 
pieces  as  you  would  a  pie,  so  that  the  uncooked  egg  runs 
over  the  edges,  for  it  must  be  cooked  only  on  one  side ; 
when  done,  add  black  pepper.     This  will  fill  a  large  dish. 

Puffed  Eggs  (Italian  monastery).  —  Twelve  eggs ;  the 
yolks  whole;  the  whites  beaten  to  the  stiffest  possible 
froth. 

Put  a  sufficient  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and 
when  it  is  melted  and  slightly  browned  put  in  the  yolk  of 
one  egg ;  do  this  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  yolk ; 
immediately  cover  the  yolk  with  a  heaping  spoonful  of 
the  beaten  whites ;  when  cooked,  remove  the  eggs  with 
a  perforated  ladle,  put  them  on  a  hot  plate,  and  pour  over 
them  a  sauce  jpiquanie. 

Eggs  al  Piaito. — Six  eggs  beaten  very  light,  yolks  and 
whites  together ;  six  slices  of  bread  cut  round  and  toasted 
on  both  sides ;  some  fresh  cottage  cheese. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
quite  melted  put  in  the  pieces  of  toast,  spread  thickly 
with  cottage  cheese ;  pour  over  them  immediately  the 
beaten  egg,  and  the  moment  the  egg  browns  transfer  the 
jpiatti  to  a  hot  plate ;  sprinkle  them  with  browned  bread 
crumbs,  and  serve. 


EGGS.  247 

Eggs  a  la  Vallorribrosa. — Six  eggs  boiled  hard  and  cut 
in  half ;  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  three 
button  onions  sliced  fine;  half  .a  tumbler  of  fresh  cream; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  roasted  parsley  powdered  fine ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg;  half  a 
coffeecupful  of  browned  and  rolled  bread  crumbs. 

Put  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  into  a  porcelain-lined 
stewpan  with  the  button  onions;  when  the  onions  are 
nicely  browned,  add  the  cream,  stirring  all  the  time ;  then 
drop  in  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  one  minute  later  the 
beaten  yolks ;  sift  the  parsley  in  carefully,  stirring  all  the 
time;  then  the  nutmeg  and  the  seasoning;  serve  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  squeeze  some  lemon-juice  over  the  val- 
lombrose  before  sending  it  to  table. 

Eggs  with  Truffles. — Stew  some  finely  sliced  truffles 
with  a  little  butter  and  milk ;  have  ready  some  good  ham, 
sliced  as  thinly  as  possible  and  freed  from  fat;  fry  the 
ham  in  butter,  and  when  cooked  put  it  on  the  plate  in 
which  you  intend  to  serve  the  eggs  (a  strong  earthenware 
plate  is  best);  pouring  over  it  a  tablespoonful  of  good 
stock  and  the  same  quantity  of  white  wine ;  put  the  plate 
on  an  iron  trjpod  over  the  fire,  and  when  the  sauce  begins 
to  boil  break  the  eggs  very  carefully ;  the  moment  the 
eggs  are  cooked,  take  the  plate  from  the  tripod,  pour  the 
truffle  sauce  over  the  eggs,  and  serve. 

Snow  Eggs. — The  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  the 
stiffest  possible  froth ;  the  yolks  the  same ;  one  pint  of 
fresh  milk  flavored  with  orange-flower  water  and  a  little 
grated  rind  of  lemon ;  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  beaten 
into  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk,  adding  the  flavoring  when  the  milk  is 
scalding-hot ;  when  the  milk  is  boiling,  drop  in  the  whites 
in  large  spoonfuls,  turning  them  over  carefully  to  facili- 
tate their  swelling ;  when  they  are  cooked,  pile  the  balls 
of  snow  into  a  dish  and  set  aside ;  strain  the  milk  through 


248  THE    UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

a  sieve,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  pour  it  on  the  beaten  yolks ; 
return  the  saucepan  to  the  fire,  stirring  the  mixture  con- 
tinually until  it  assumes  the  consistency  of  cream ;  then 
withdraw  it  from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  custard  over  the 
snow  pyramid  ;  eat  hot  or  cold  to  taste. 

Spanish  Gold  Foam. — The  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten  up 
with  as  much  cold  water  as  the  six  eggshells  will  contain ; 
sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste. 

Cook  over  a  slow  fire;  stirring  continually,  and  never 
allowing  the  liquid  to  boil ;  when  it  thickens  take  it  from 
the  fire  and  allow  it  to  cool ;  when  cold  beat  hard  for  an 
hour ;  serve  in  custard-cups. 

Eggs  d  Zabagone. — Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  as 
much  Cyprus  or  Malaga  wine  as  the  eggshells  will  con- 
tain ;  add  three  spoonfuls  of  powdered,  sifted  sugar ;  heat 
d  bain-marie,  stirring  or  beating  all  the  time;  when  it 
thickens  pour  into  glasses  and  serve  with  wafers. 

Curried  Eggs. — Slice  an  onion  ;  fry  it  in  butter ;  take 
out  the  onion ;  add  a  teacupful  of  milk  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  curry-powder ;  let  it  stew  untii  it  is  thick, 
then  add  half  a  pint  of  stock,  thickened  with  browned 
flour ;  allow  this  to  come  almost  to  a  boil,  and  pour  red- 
hot  over  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  thick  slices;  it  is 
best  to  cut  the  eggs  and  arrange  them  neatly  in  a  very  hot 
dish,  with  a  garland  of  water-cress  round  them  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon ;  then,  at  the  last  moment,  pour  over  the 
boiling  sauce,  and  serve  at  once. 

Devilled  Eggs. — Boil  the  eggs  hard,  remove  the  shells, 
and  cut  the  eggs  in  half^  slicing  a  bit  off  the  bottoms  to 
make  them  stand  upright,  d  la  Columbus;  extract  the 
yolks,  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  melted  butter,  cay- 
enne pepper,  a  touch  of  mustard,  and  a  dash  of  vinegar ; 
fill  the  hollowed  whites  with  this,  and  send  to  table  upon 


EGGS.  249 

a  bed  of  chopped  cresses,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar, 
and  a  soupgon  of  sugar ;  the  salad  should  be  two  inches  thick. 

Fondue — Eggs  with  Cheese  (Brillat  Savarin). — One  egg 
for  each  guest ;  Gruyere  cheese,  one  third  the  weight  of 
the  eggs ;  butter,  the  same  weight. 

Have  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  brought  to  table  in  a 
chafing-dish,  then  add  the  butter,  and  the  cheese  grated ; 
light  the  lamp  under  the  chafing-dish,  and  stir  the  mixt- 
ure continually  with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding  meanwhile 
a  little  salt  and  cayenne. 

Omelette  au  Thun  (Brillat  Savarin). — Take,  for  six  per- 
sons, the  roes  of  two  carp,  bleach  them  by  throwing  them 
for  a  moment  into  boiling  salted  water;  take  a  piece  of 
fresh  tunny  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  to  which  add  a  small 
chopped  onion;  hash  up  the  roe,  onion,  and  tunny  well 
together,  and  throw  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  sufficient 
piece  of  very  good  butter ;  stir  continually  until  the  but- 
ter is  melted ;  take  a  second  piece  of  butter  and  mix  it 
thoroughly  with  minced  parsley  and  chives;  squeeze  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  over  it,  and  place  it  in  the  dish  destined 
to  receive  the  omelette,  which  you  must  then  place  in  the 
oven,  so  that  the  dish  may  be  thoroughly  heated,  and  the 
butter  thoroughly  melted,  by  the  time  the  omelette  is 
done;  then  beat  up  very  thoroughly  twelve  fresh  eggs; 
add  the  saute,  roe,  and  tunny,  stirring  furiously  to  mix  all 
together,  and  proceed  to  make  and  cook  the  omelet  as 
usual,  endeavoring  to  turn  it  out  long,  thick,  and  soft. 
"  A  dish  to  be  reserved  for  amateurs  who  know  how  to 
eat "  (Brillat  Savarin). 

Truffled  Eggs. — Beat  four  eggs  in  a  dish  with  a  little 
cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  chop  up  a  truffle  very  fine,  add 
this  to  the  eggs  and  pour  into  your  saucepan,  stirring  un- 
til it  becomes  a  cream  ;  it  will  not  require  more  than  five 
minutes  to  cook. 

11* 


250  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Stuffed  Eggs. — Boil  a  clove  of  garlic  in  a  little  water 
for  fifteen  minutes;  stir  in  two  anchovies  and  a  few 
chopped  capers;  mix  them  with  the  yolks  (hard-boiled) 
of  eggs;  add  oil,  vinegar,  and  pepper;  stuff  this  in  the 
whites  and  6erve. 

Tenderloin  Eggs. — Put  a  piece  of  butter,  sliced  onions, 
and  sliced  mushrooms  into  a  saucepan ;  when  the  onions 
begin  to  color,  stir  in  a  pinch  of  flour ;  moisten  with  bouil- 
lon and  a  little  white  wine;  salt  and  pepper;  let  it  cook 
half  an  hour  until  it  becomes  the  consistency  of  a  sauce; 
have  your  eggs  hard-boiled ;  put  the  yolks  in  whole  and 
slice  your  whites  in  quarters;  let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
serve  hot. 

Bird's -Nest  of  Eggs. — Boil  some  eggs  hard ;  take  out 
the  yolks  carefully,' leaving  them  whole;  cut  the  whites 
into  thin  strips,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dish  in  the  form 
of  a  bird's-nest ;  have  ready  &  puree  of  spinach,  with  which 
fill  up  the  nest ;  on  this  arrange  the  yolks  in  a  pyramid ; 
pour  over  all  a  rich  white  sauce  and  serve. 

Hunter's  Omelet. — Beat  ten  or  twelve  eggs  light,  and 
season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  you  choose,  a 
very  little  nutmeg ;  butter  some  little  pannikins,  and  fill 
each  with  the  beaten  egg;  cook  the  little  omelets  care- 
fully, browning  both  sides,  then  turn  them  out  on  a  plate, 
and  when  cold  spread  them  thickly  with  anchovy  butter, 
and  pile  one  on  the  other.  These  omelets  are  very  nice 
for  a  journey,  or  hunting  and  fishing  expeditions.     • 

Omelette  d  la  Lyonnaise. — Put  a  large  lump  of  butter 
in  a  frying  or  an  omelet  pan ;  then  beat  eight  eggs  as 
light  as  possible,  seasoning  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
pinch  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  when  they  are  as  light 
as  they  can  be,  and  the  butter  melted,  pour  the  eggs  into 
the  omelet-pan,  and  shake  the  pan  in  such  a  way  that  the 


EGGS.  251 

omelet  will  form  without  being  touched  with  a  spoon ; 
when  it  is  formed  and  brown  roll  it,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
dish. 

Omelette  d  V Allemonde  or  Schmarn. — Put  into  a  dish 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  the  finest  white  flour  sifted;  three 
whole  eggs;  the  yolks  of  three  more;  half  a  tumblerful 
of  good  cream  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Beat  all  smoothly  together,  pass  through  a  sieve,  and 
fry  in  an  omelet-pan  with  plenty  of  butter ;  take  care  to 
keep  this  omelet  thin,  and  pierce  it,  while  cooking,  in  dif- 
ferent places  with  a  silver  fork;  when  nicely  browned 
fold  and  dish. 

Omelet,  Plain. — Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately and  to  the  very  utmost;  one  small  cupful  of  rich 
milk. 

When  the  yolks  are  beaten  thick  add  the  milk,  and  beat 
hard  and  long ;  then  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  pepper 
and  salt ;  have  ready  a  large  lump  of  butter  in  a  hot  fry- 
ing-pan ;  when  the  butter  hisses,  pour  in  the  omelet  and 
cook  ten  minutes  over  a  clear  fire ;  do  not  stir  the  omelet, 
but  watch  carefully  and  slip  a  spatula  or  broad-bladed 
knife  under  it  as  the  eggs  "set;"  when  done  cover  the 
omelet-pan  with  a  large  hot  plate,  and  upset  the  omelet 
cleverly  on  the  plate ;  eat  at  once,  as  it  soon  falls. 

Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. — Make  as  above ;  but  beat 
into  the  eggs  and  milk  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
parsley,  green  thyme,  and  sweet  marjoram,  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  fry  as  above. 

Omelet  with  Asparagus. — Take  the  green  tops  of  young 
asparagus,  stew  until  tender,  mince,  season,  and  beat  in 
when  the  omelet  is  ready  for  the  pan. 

Cauliflower  Omelet. — Chop  some  cold  cauliflower  very 


252  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

fine,  and  mix  in  when  the  omelet  is  ready  for  the  pan ; 
season  with  pepper,  6alt,  cayenne,  and  a  pinch  of  Parme- 
san cheese. 

Omelet  with  Mushrooms. — Cook  some  mushrooms  until 
tender ;  then  chop  fine  and  beat  into  the  omelet  just  as  it 
is  ready  to  fry. 

Or,  you  may  take  stewed  mushrooms,  lay  them  on  the 
top  of  the  omelet  when  it  is  cooked,  fold,  and  dish  at 
once. 

Omelet  with  Tomatoes.  —  Make  an  omelet  as  above ; 
when  cooked  lay  on  it  some  stewed  tomatoes,  fold,  and 
serve. 

Omelet  with  Artichokes. — Chop  some  cold  boiled  arti- 
chokes very  fine,  beat  into  the  omelet,  season,  and  fry  as 
usual. 

Omelet  with  Oysters  will  be  found  under  the  head  of 

"  Oysters." 

Omelet  with  Ham,  Tongue,  Chicken,  or  Smoked  Beef. — 
Make  as  above ;  but  when  the  omelet  is  cooked  sprinkle 
it  thickly  with  the  meat  preferred,  fold,  and  serve. 


\ 


MILK  AND   BUTTER. 

GENERAL   RULES   FOE   ATTENDING-   TO   MILK   AND   BUTTER. 

Keep  in  a  cool  cellar,  dairy,  or  milk-room.  Allow  no 
strongly  flavored  substances  to  be  in  the  neighborhood  of 
milk  or  butter.  Place  upon  swing  shelves.  Use  broad, 
shallow  earthenware  pans  if  you  can  get  them ;  if  not,  tin 
pans  made  in  one  piece  ;  keep  pans,  jars,crocks,  and  churn 
exquisitely  clean  and  fresh,  scalding  and  airing  persistently 
and  continually ;  scald  your  pans  alwaj^s  a  short  time  be- 
fore straining  the  milk  into  them ;  then  set  the  pans  on 
swing  shelves,  and  in  twelve  hours  skim  for  the  table ; 
then  let  it  stand  twelve  hours  more  for  the  second  rising 
of  the  cream  ;  put  this  into  the  stone  jar  or  crock  in  which 
the  cream  is  kept  for  churning.  It  is  always  worth  while 
to  do  this,  as  tire  second  rising  of  cream  repays  the  trouble. 
As  soon  as  the  cream  "  loppers,"  or  thickens,  churn. 

Fresh  Butter. — Scald  the  churn  thoroughly,  then  cool  as 
thoroughly  with  ice  or  spring  water,  then  pour  in  the  thick 
cream ;  churn  fast  at  first,  then,  as  the  butter  forms,  more 
slowly,  always  with  perfect  regularity ;  in  warm  weather 
pour  a  little  cold  water  into  the  churn,  should  the  butter 
form  slowly  ;  take  it  up  with  the  perforated  dasher,  turning 
it  dexterously  just  below  the  surface  of  the  buttermilk,  to 
catch  every  stray  bit;  have  ready  some  clear,  very  cold  water, 
in  a  deep  wooden  tray,  and  into  this  plunge  the  dasher  when 
you  draw  it  from  the  churn  ;  the  butter  will  float  off,  leav- 
ing the  dasher  free.  When  you  have  collected  all  the  but- 
ter, gather  behind  a  wooden  butter  shovel,  and  drain  off  the 
water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter  with  the  shovel ; 


254  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

set  in  a  cool  place,  for  an  hour,  to  harden,  then  work  and 
knead  it  until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and  the 
butter  is  perfectly  smooth  and  close  in  texture  and  polish ; 
then  with  the  paddle  make  up  into  rolls,  little  balls, 
stamped  pats,  etc. 

Salt  Butter. — Proceed  precisely  as  above,  but  when  you 
have  worked  out  the  buttermilk,  add  by  degrees  fine  salt, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  dessertspoonful  to  every  pound  ; 
then  set  aside  for  some  hours,  always  in  a  cool  place ;  then 
mould  as  above.  Wrap  each  roll  in  a  clean,  wet  linen  cloth, 
with  no  touch  of  soap  or  starch  about  it,  and  pack  in  a 
stone  jar,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  between  the  layers. 

Salt  Butter,  to  Keep. — "Work  with  special  care,  and  pack 
down  hard  in  a  perfectly  clean  stone  jar ;  it  must  be  a  fresh 
jar,  one  never  before  used  ;  press  a  fine  linen  cloth  closely 
to  the  surface,  and  cover  this  with  a  thick  layer  of  clean, 
fine  salt ;  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  keep  closely  covered. 

Rennet.  —  The  stomach  of  a  fresh  -  killed  calf,  well 
cleaned,  and  scoured  inside  and  out  with  salt ;  when  per- 
fectly clean,  tack  upon  a  frame  to  dry  in  the  sun  for  a 
day ;  cut  in  squares,  pack  down  in  salt,  and  keep  in  wine 
or  brandy  ;  when  you  wish  to  use  the  salted,  soak  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  wash  well,  and  put  into  the  milk  to  be 
turned,  tied  to  a  string,  so  that  you  may  draw  it  out  with- 
out breaking  the  curd.  Sometimes  the  dried  and  salted 
rennet  may  be  bought  in  the  markets  and  drug  shops. 
Bottled  rennet  is  also  sold  in  the  drug  shops. 

Vrai  Fromage  a  la  Grime,  No.  1,  or  Fromage  de  Chan- 
tilly. — One  quart  of  very  rich  cream,  two  or  three  days 
old ;  a  pinch  of  gum  arabic,  powdered  fine. 

Put  into  an  earthenware  bowl,  which  you  have  sur- 
rounded with  pounded  ice,  and  a  handful  of  salt ;  whip  the 
cream  hard  and  long,  until  it  is  as  smooth  as  velvet ;  then 


MILK  AND  BUTTER.  255 

add  a  little  powdered  sugar,  whipping  it  in  gradually  ;  then 
put  into  a  wicker  basket  (or  panier  de  fromage).  It  should 
be  heart-shaped,  and  lined  with  a  coarse  linen  cloth.  Place 
this  in  a  deep  earthenware  dish,  being  careful  to  put  little 
pieces  of  wood,  an  inch  thick,  under  the  panier  de  fromage, 
so  as  to  raise  it  a  little  ;  put  the  earthenware  dish  in  the  re- 
frigerator ;  when  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  the  fromage  on  a 
deep  dish  ;  smother  with  fresh  cream,  and  serve.  This  is 
the  genuine  fromage  a  la  crime  of  the  Parisian  street  cries. 

Fromage  a  la  Crime,  Eo.  2,  or  Fromage  de  Viry. — One 
half  quantity  of  whipped  cream  as  above;  one  half  quan- 
tity of  plain  cream  cheese. 

Mix  to  a  smooth  cream,  whip  to  velvet,  whip  in  sugar 
to  taste,  and  one  drop  essence  of  bitter  almonds ;  then  pro- 
ceed as  above. 

Fromage  a  la  Creme,  "No.  3. — One  quart  of  fresh  rich 
milk,  heated  to  tepid  warmth ;  a  piece  of  rennet  as  large 
as  a  pea,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Put  in  a  covered  vessel  on  the  hot  coals  ;  when  the  milk 
is  turned,  put  into  a  heart-shaped  wicker  basket,  lined  with 
coarse  linen.  When  it  has  well  drained,  put  into  a  deep 
dish,  smother  in  rich,  fresh  cream,  dust  with  fine  sugar, 
and  serve. 

Old  Virginia  Cream  Cheese. — Put  aside  a  quart  of  good 
cream  until  it  is  sour,  and  very  thick,  and  stir  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt;  lay  a  piece  of  thin  muslin  on  a  hair 
sieve,  so  as  to  draw  the  cheese  out  in  the  muslin.  Put  a 
sieve  on  a  dish,  pour  in  the  cream,  and  let  it  drain  for 
three  days,  pouring  off  the  whey  every  morning.  If  the 
cream  will  not  go  in  all  at  once,  add  it  during  the  day,  as 
the  whey  sinks.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  butter 
when  eaten.  Put  into  a  large  heart-shaped  tin  mould  to 
press.  The  bottom  of  the  mould  should  be  pierced  with 
round  holes,  and  should  stand  on  little  feet,  so  that  the 


256  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

cheese  may  drain  while  pressing.     Eat  with  sweet  cream 
and  sugar. 

New  Jersey  Cream  Cheese. — Scald  the  milk,  and  let  it 
cool  a  little  before  putting  in  the  rennet.  When  the  curd 
is  formed, take  it  out  on  a  ladle  without  breaking  it;  lay- 
it  on  a  thin  cloth  held  by  two  persons ;  dash  a  ladleful  of 
water  over  each  ladleful  of  curd,  to  separate  the  curd ; 
hang  it  up  to  drain  the  water  off,  and  then  put  it  under  a 
light  press  for  one  hour  ;  cut  the  curd  with  a  thread  into 
small  pieces ;  lay  a  cloth  between  each  two,  and  press  for 
an  hour ;  take  them  out,  rub  them  with  fine  salt,  let  them 
lie  on  a  board  for  an  hour,  and  wash  them  in  cold  water ; 
let  them  lie  to  drain,  and  in  a  day  or  two  the  skin  will  look 
dry ;  put  some  sweet  grass  under  and  over  them,  and  they 
will  soon  ripen. 

Neufchatel  Cheese. — Stir  a  little  salt  into  a  pan  of  lop- 
pered  cream ;  pour  into  a  linen  bag,  and  let  it  drain  three 
days,  changing  the  bag  every  day;  then  pack  into  a 
wooden  mould  with  holes  in  the  bottom,  and  press  two 
hours ;  wet  the  mould  in  cold  water  before  putting  in  the 
cream  curd;  wrap  each  cheese  in  several  folds  of  soft, 
white  tissue  paper,  and  put  into  a  cool  place.  Thus  ar- 
ranged, these  cheeses  will  keep  for  a  week. 

Cottage  or  Pot  Cheese. — Heat  sour  milk  until  the  whey 
rises  to  the  top ;  pour  it  off,  put  the  curd  in  a  bag,  and 
let  it  drip  six  hours  without  squeezing  it;  put  into  a 
wooden  bowl,  chop  fine  with  a  wooden  spoon,  salt  to  taste, 
and  work  to  the  consistency  of  soft  putty,  adding  a  little 
cream  and  butter  as  you  proceed.  Mould  with  your  hands 
into  round  balls,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Fot-cheese 
should  be  eaten  fresh.  It  is  delicious  with  brown  bread 
and  fresh  butter,  and  just  a  little  soupgon  of  red  pepper. 

Junket,  or  Slip  and  Co  Down — One  quart  of  rich  milk; 


MILK  AND  BUTTER.  257 

one  piece  of  rennet,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the  wine  in 
which  the  rennet  is  kept,  to  each  quart  of  milk ;  one  ta- 
blespoonf  ul  of  powdered  sugar  to  each  quart ;  a  little  nut- 
meg. 

Cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  very  warm  place  for  an  hour. 
If  by  that  time  there  are  no  signs  of  stiffening,  add  more 
rennet.  When  it  is  as  firm  as  blanc-mange,  and  before  the 
whey  separates,  remove  the  rennet ;  then  set  the  junket 
upon  ice  until  wanted ;  dust  lightly  with  finely  grated  nut- 
meg, and  eat  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Bonny  Clabber,  or  Zqppered  Milk.  —  Set  a  dish  of 
skimmed  milk  away  in  a  warm  place,  closely  covered ; 
when  it  turns,  i.  e.,  becomes  smooth  and  firm  like  blanc- 
mange, serve  in  the  same  dish ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
it,  and  eat  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Thickened  Milk. — One  quart  of  milk ;  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Stir  smoothly  the  rice  flour  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  let 
it  thicken  in  a  vessel  placed  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  keep- 
ing the  water  at  a  hard  boil  for  an  hour  ;  stir  continually, 
or  it  will  not  be  quite  smooth. 

Staffordshire  Syllabub. — One  pint  of  cider ;  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy  ;  sugar  to  taste  ;  a  pinch  of  nutmeg. 

Put  into  a  very  deep  bowl ;  stir  well  until  the  sugar  is 
thoroughly  dissolved ;  then  fasten  a  fine  hair  sieve  over 
the  bowl,  and  milk  into  it.  This  is  the  genuine,  far-famed 
Staffordshire  syllabub. 

Somersetshire  Syllabub. — In  a  large  china  bowl  put  a 
pint  of  port  and  a  pint  of  sherry ;  sugar  to  taste ;  milk 
the  bowl  full. 

In  twenty  minutes'  time  cover  it  pretty  high  with 
clotted  cream  ;  grate  nutmeg  over  it ;  put  also  some  pow- 
dered cinnamon  and  nonpareil  comfits. 


258  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Posset  Syllabub. — Mix  a  quart  of  thick  cream  with  one 
pound  of  lump  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  white  wine ;  rub  a 
few  lumps  of  sugar  on  the  rind  of  two  or  three  lemons  to 
extract  the  essence ;  pour  upon  them  the  juice  of  three 
lemons;  add  this  to  the  cream  and  whisk  one  way  until 
thick. 

Devonshire  Clotted  Cream. — That  made  from  the  milk 
of  the  Alderney  or  Guernsey  cow  is  the  richest,  apparently 
irrespective  of  pasture.  The  milk  of  one  day  is  scalded 
on  the  next.  It  is  best  to  scald  it  over  hot  water.  The 
milk-pans  should  be  of  tin,  round,  about  forty-two  inches 
in  circumference  at  the  top,  and  five  inches  deep.  They 
should  fit  on  another  pan  which  holds  the  hot  water  and 
stands  on  the  stove ;  it  takes  about  half  an  hour  to  scald 
the  cream,  the  water  in  the  under  tin  being  kept  boiling. 

Devonshire  Cream  Curds. — Seven  eggs;  three  gills  of 
water ;  three  pints  of  milk  ;  one  gill  of  rich  cream ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  the  best  vinegar. 

Put  all  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  two 
or  three  minutes  to  separate  the  curd.  Eat  cold,  with 
fruit  and  sugar. 


BREAD,    BISCUIT,   MUFFINS,    ETC. 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS   FOR   MAKING   BREAD. 

Buy  new  flour  if  possible ;  it  takes  up  more  water  than 
the  old  and  yields  a  larger  amount  of  bread.  A  pint  of 
milk  in  a  batch  of  four  loaves  of  bread  gives  you  a  pound 
more  bread  of  better  quality,  and  helps  to  keep  it  moist. 
One  pound  of  pea  meal,  or  ground  split  pease,  added  to 
every  fourteen  pounds  of  flour,  increases  its  nourishment. 
When  bread  is  too  stale  to  eat  or  to  make  into  bread  broth, 
dry  it  in  a  cool  oven,  or  over  the  top  of  the  tire ;  roll  it 
with  a  rolling  pin  ;  sift  through  a  sieve,  and  put  into  a 
wide-mouthed  and  closely  covered  glass  jar;  keep  in  a 
dry  place,  and  use  for  breading  fish,  chops,  croquettes,  etc. 
If  you  have  a  whole  stale  loaf,  put  it  into  a  tightly  covered 
tin  can  and  steam  it,  or  put  it  into  a  moderately  warm  oven 
for  half  an  hour.  It  will  then  be  quite  as  palatable  as 
fresh  bread.  

Flour,  to  Choose.  —  Flour  should  be  fine,  dry,  elastic, 
odorless,  and  tasteless.  It  should  not  have  even  a  suspi- 
cion of  mustiness  or  acidity.  It  should  not  be  moist,  nor 
retain  the  impress  of  your  palm  and  fingers  if  you  squeeze 
it  into  a  ball.  Nor,  as  you  run  it  through  your  fingers, 
should  it  feel  musty,  damp,  or  glutinous,  but  light,  dry, 
and  almost  impalpable. 

Yeast,  to  Choose. — Should  be  light  in  color,  lively,  ef- 
fervescing easily  when  shaken,  and  emitting  an  odor  like 
weak  ammonia.     If  dull  or  sour  it  is  not  fit  to  use. 


260  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Yeast  without  Hops. — This  yeast  is  desirable,  as  it  never 
tastes  bitter,  even  in  hot  cakes.  Five  large  potatoes,  grated ; 
one  quart  of  boiling  water ;  one  teacupful  of  yeast ;  one 
teacupful  of  brown  sugar  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Add  the  potatoes  when  grated  to  the  quart  of  boiling 
water ;  boil  five  minutes,  then  remove  it  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  teacupful  of  brown  sugar  and  the  tablespoon- 
ful of  salt.     When  it  cools,  add  the  yeast. 

Potato  Yeast.  —  Twelve  good -sized  potatoes,  peeled, 
boiled,  and  mashed  ;  one  handful  of  hops,  boiled  in  a  quart 
of  water;  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar;  half  a  cupful  of 
salt ;  one  cupful  of  good  yeast. 

Measure  the  hop  tea  when  done,  and  pour  it  on  the 
mashed  potatoes.  Measure  the  water  in  which  the  pota- 
toes were  boiled,  and  then,  from  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
make  up  what  is  wanting  of  a  gallon  of  fluid ;  add  the 
brown  sugar  and  the  salt ;  let  it  stand  until  lukewarm, 
and  then  add  the  yeast;  set  it  to  rise  for  twenty -four 
hours.     This  yeast  will  ferment  like  beer. 

Sponge  made  of  the  Above. — Mash  a  hot  boiled  potato ; 
mix  it  with  about  two  quarts  of  flour,  and  two  large  kitch- 
enspoonfuls  of  the  yeast;  beat  it  well,  and  set  it  to  rise 
about  one  p.m.  ;  about  seven,  make  up  the  bread  with  this 
sponge. 

Yeast  for  Bread  (Pennsylvania  receipt). — Two  quarts 
of  very  strong  hop  tea;  six  good -sized  white  potatoes, 
mashed  through  a  sieve ;  half  a  teacupful  of  finest  white 
flour,  sifted ;  half  a  teacupful  of  salt ;  one  teacupful  of 
sugar. 

Beat  this  mixture  until  quite  smooth,  and  let  it  boil  up 
once;  when  cold,  add  a  piece  of  leaven  or  some  yeast  to 
set  it  going,  and  bottle  and  cork  it  tight ;  shake  it  well 
before  using  it.  For  bread,  take  two  tablespoonfnls  to 
each  quart  of  flour. 


BKEAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  261 

Bread — General  Rides. — Imprimis,  use  none  but  the 
best  flour;  sift  all  white  flour  well  and  thoroughly. 

2.  Mix  the  dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled. 

3.  Set  the  dough  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place, 
and  keep  it  at  an  even  temperature.  If  by  any  accident 
you  should  And  your  dough  puffy  and  sour,  dissolve  a  little 
soda  or  saleratus  in  hot  water,  and  work  it  well  in. 

4.  Knead  the  bread  faithfully  and  from  all  sides,  until 
it  rebounds  like  an  India-rubber  ball  from  a  smart  blow 
of  the  fist  on  the  centre  of  the  mass. 

5.  The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot,  and  the  heat  should 
be  perfectly  steady  after  the  bread  goes  in.  If  you  cannot 
hold  your  bare  arm  in  the  oven  while  you  count  thirty, 
the  oven  is  too  hot  to  bake  bread. 

6.  Grease  your  pans  well  before  putting  in  the  bread. 

7.  When  you  take  the  bread  from  the  oven,  turn  out 
from  the  pan,  and  stand  each  loaf  upright  on  edge ;  the 
lower  part  resting  on  the  table,  the  upper  supported  by 
some  upright  object.  Throw  a  clean,  dry,  light  cloth  over 
all.  Do  not  put  away  until  quite  cold.  Then  keep  in  a 
tin  bread  box,  folded  in  clean  cloths. 

Bread  Sjponcje  (Mary  Anne's). — Six  potatoes,  peeled, 
boiled,  and  mashed  fine  while  hot ;  six  tablespoonf  uls  of 
baker's  yeast ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  two 
tablespoonf  uls  of  lard  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda  ;  one  quart 
of  warm  water ;  three  cups  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  and  work  in  the  lard  and  sugar. 
Work  to  a  cream,  mixing  in  gradually  a  quart  of  the  water 
in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled.  This  water  should  be 
used  blood-warm.  Beat  in  the  flour  smoothly,  then  the 
yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Cover  lightly  if  the  weather  is 
warm;  more  closely  in  winter,  and  set  to  rise  overnight 
in  a  warm  place. 

Family  Bread,  White,  No.  1  (Mary  Anne's). — For  the 
above  sponge,  sift  two  quarts  and  a  pint  of  flour  into  the 


262  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

bread-tray ;  sift  with  the  flour  three  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  salt; 
make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  heap ;  pour  in  the  risen 
sponge;  flour  your  hands  thoroughly,  and  work  down  the 
flour  into  the  sponge  with  your  hands.  If  you  can  mould 
it  at  all,  it  is  not  too  soft.  If  too  stiff,  rinse  out  the  bowl 
in  which  the  sponge  was  set  with  a  little  lukewarm  water, 
and  work  this  well  in.  As  soon  as  you  have  the  dough  in 
manageable  shape,  begin  to  knead,  and  knead  steadily  for 
half  an  hour  at  least ;  knead  always  towards  the  centre  of 
the  mass,  turning  it  repeatedly  over  and  over,  and  round 
and  round,  that  no  portion  may  escape  manipulation  ;  lift 
the  dough  from  the  toy  in  your  left  hand,  while  with 
your  right  you  sprinkle  flour  thickly  over  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  tray  ;  toss  back  the  dough, and  knead  and  turn 
as  before.  AVhen  the  half -hour  is  up,  form  the  dough  into 
around  ball ;  sprinkle  flour  on  the  top  ;  place  in  the  centre 
of  the  kneading-tray ;  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  leave 
on  the  kitchen  table  to  rise,  taking  care  it  is  not  in  a 
draught  of  cold  air.  ]£  will  need  four  or  Ave  hours  to  rise 
in  summer,  and  six  in  winter.  The  dough  will  in  that 
time  treble  its  original  bulk.  Then  knead  again  for  fifteen 
minutes;  divide  into  loaves;  prick  each  with  a  fork;  put 
into  greased  pans ;  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  leave  for 
an  hour.  Then  bake,  following  the  directions  given  above 
for  baking.  One  hour  in  a  good  oven  ought  to  be  enough 
for  the  above  quantity. 

Family  Bread,  White,  No.  2  (Old  Humphrey). — Four 
quarts  of  finest  wheat  flour,  sifted  ;  one  quart  of  milk-warm 
water ;  half  a  pint  of  baker's  yeast ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Dissolve  the  salt  in  the  water,  and  add  the  yeast ;  put 
the  flour  into  a  kneading-bowl ;  make  a  hollow  in  the 
middle  of  the  flour,  and  pour  the  yeast  and  water  into  it, 
leaving  a  wall  of  the  dry  flour  around  it,  after  beating  it 
well ;  then  place  the  pan  in  a  warm,  dry  place,  in  the 
kitchen,  if  it  be  winter.  In  warm  weather,  a  cooler  place 
must  be  selected.     Cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  all  night ; 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  263 

this  must  be  done  before  bedtime.  About  eight  or  nine 
o'clock  the  next  morning  the  dough  will  have  risen,  and  cov- 
ered nearly  all  the  flour  on  the  sides ;  then  knead  in  the  flour 
until  the  dough  is  soft,  and  easily  kneaded ;  take  it  out  of 
the  pan,  and  knead  it  thoroughly  on  the  paste-board ;  then 
cut  into  three  or  four  pieces,  and  knead  each  by  itself  ;  lay 
each  piece  in  a  buttered  baking-pan ;  set  them  in  a  warm 
place  for  two  or  three  hours ;  they  must  rise  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  pans  ;  bake  them  for  about  half  an  hour  ;  keep 
the  oven  closed  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  venturiDg 
to  open  the  door.  If  an  oven  heated  by  wood  is  used,  the 
bread  will  require  nearly  double  the  time. 

Bread,  Made  Soft  and  Quickly  (Mary  Anne's). — Three 
quarts  of  flour  (finest  white  flour,  well  sifted) ;  half  a  pint 
of  yeast ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  lard  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of 
salt;  warm  water  enough  to  make  a  dough. 

Dissolve  the  lard  and  salt  in  the  warm  water;  then  add 
the  yeast,  then  the  flour,  gradually,  stirring  it  with  a  spoon  ; 
set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  all  night.  In  the  morning 
take  a  part  of  the  dough,  and  mould  it  into  biscuits  for 
breakfast.  Knead  the  rest  as  above  ;  then  put  it  into 
pans,  letting  it  rise  in  the  pans  for  half  an  hour  before 
baking. 

Brown  Bread  (William  Penn's). — One  quart  of  Graham 
flour,  sifted;  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  sifted ;  one  cupful  of 
molasses;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
one  quart  of  cold  water. 

Mix  all  gradually  and  smoothly  together ;  steam  it  in  a 
pudding  boiler  for  four  hours ;  turn  it  out  on  a  baking 
plate,  and  bake  one  hour. 

New  England  Brown  Bread. — Two  cupf  uls  of  Indian 
meal ;  two  cupfuls  of  rye  meal ;  one  cupful  of  wheat 
flour;  one  cupful  of  molasses;  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
sweet  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  one  pinch  of  salt. 


264  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cook,  d  bain-marie,  four  and  a  half  hours  without  stop- 
ping.    This  bread  is  never  baked. 

Milk  Bread. — One  quart  of  milk,  blood- warm ;  half  a 
teacupful  of  yeast ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  one 
tablespoonf  ul  of  white  sugar. 

Stir  into  the  milk  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  the  sugar,  and 
lastly  the  yeast ;  beat  all  together  well,  and  allow  to  rise 
five  or  six  hours ;  then  melt  the  butter,  and  add  with  a 
little  salt ;  work  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  ; 
let  this  rise  four  hours,  then  make  into  small  loaves,  and 
into  crescents,  like  Yienna  bread  ;  set  near  the  fire  for  half 
an  hour,  and  bake  in  buttered  pans.  In  warm  weather 
add  to  the  risen  sponge  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
warm  water. 

Buttermilk  Bread. — One  pint  of  buttermilk,  scalding 
hot ;  half  a  gill  of  yeast ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  dis- 
solved in  hot  water ;  a  little  salt ;  two  tablespoonf uls  of 
melted  butter. 

Stir  into  the  buttermilk,  while  hot,  enough  flour  to  make 
a  tolerably  thick  batter ;  add  the  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  five 
or  six  hours ;  in  the  morning  stir  into  the  sponge  first  the 
soda,  as  directed,  then  the  salt,  sugar,  and  melted  butter; 
work  in  just  enough  flour  to  enable  you  to  handle  the 
dough  easily ;  knead  well ;  make  into  loaves,  and  let  it 
rise  until  light.     Bake  as  usual. 

Bice  Bread.  —  Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  of  warm 
water  ;  one  teacupful  of  yeast ;  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar ;  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  lard ;  one  quart  of  wheat 
flour,  sifted.  When  risen,  add  three  pints  of  warm  milk  ; 
three  teacupfuls  of  rice  flour,  wet  to  a  paste,  with  cold 
milk,  and  boiled  four  minutes. 

The  sponge  will  take  five  hours  to  rise.  The  milk  and 
rice  flour  should  be  stirred  in  blood-warm.  If  the  dough 
should  be  still  too  thin  to  handle,  add  just  enough  wheat 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  265 

flour  to  enable  you  to  do  so ;    knead  thoroughly.    Allow 
the  bread  to  rise  twice,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Lowell  Brown  Bread. — Three  teacupfuls  of  Indian 
meal ;  two  teacupfuls  of  rye  meal ;  half  a  teacupf ul  of 
molasses  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda. 

Mix  in  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  milk,  and  bake  it  for 
two  hours. 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread. — One  quart  of  Indian  meal ; 
half  a  cupful  of  molasses. 

Pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  scald  all  the  meal 
thoroughly  ;  set  it  away  to  cool,  and,  when  it  becomes 
milk-warm,  add  one  pint  of  rye  flour,  one  cupful  of  yeast, 
and  a  little  salt.  Steam  it  for  three  hours,  and  bake  for 
one  hour. 

Wisconsin  Steamed  Brown  Bread. — Three  cupfuls  of 
sweet  milk ;  one  cupful  of  sour  milk ;  three  cupfuls  of 
corn  meal,  sifted  ;  one  cupful  of  flour,  sifted  ;  half  a  cupful 
of  molasses  ;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water;  a  pinch 
of  salt. 

Make  up  into  dough  ;  knead  well,  and  steam  three  hours. 
Be  sure  to  cover  the  basin  tightly  within  the  steamer. 

Graham  Bread,  No.  1. — One  quart  of  Graham  flour, 
sifted;  half  a  cupful  of  yeast;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
two  tablespoonf  uls  of  molasses. 

Mix  with  warm  water  to  a  stiff  batter,  knead,  and, 
when  light,  bake  for  one  hour. 

Graham  Bread,  No.  2. — One  quart  of  Graham  flour, 
sifted ;  one  small  cupful  of  molasses ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  sifted  dry  into  the  flour;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  ; 
one  pinch  of  salt ;  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Stir  it  very  quickly,  and  bake  it  slowly  in  deep  pans. 

12 


266  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Graham  Bread,  "No.  3. — Three  cupfuls  of  Graham 
flour ;  one  cupful  of  white  flour,  sifted  ;  one  quart  of 
water ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  molasses. 

Mix  and  knead  as  usual,  and  steam  as  you  steam  Wis- 
consin Brown  Bread. 

Brown  Bread.  —  Make  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread, 
using  potatoes  or  white  flour ;  allow  two  parts  of  Graham 
flour,  unsifted  ;  one  third  white. 

For  every  quart  of  this  mixture,  allow  one  handful  of 
Indian  meal,  and  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  wet  this  up  with 
the  sponge,  and,  when  well  mixed,  add  for  every  loaf  of 
fair  size  half  a  teacupf ul  of  molasses.  The  dough  should 
be  very  soft.  If  there  is  not  enough  sponge  to  reduce  it 
to  the  required  consistency,  add  a  little  blood-warm  water  ; 
knead  hard  and  long;  it  will  rise  very  slowly;  put  it 
down  for  a  second  rising,  after  you  have  kneaded  it  the 
second  time.  Bake  steadily  for  a  longer  time  than  you 
would  white  bread.  Take  care  that  it  does  not  burn,  and 
do  not  cut  while  hot. 

Brown  Bread. — Half  a  pint  of  flour;  one  pint  of  corn 
meal ;  half  a  pint  of  rye  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder  ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
brown  sugar  ;  sift  together  until  thoroughly  mixed. 

Peel,  wash,  and  boil  two  medium-sized  potatoes,  rub 
them  through  a  sieve,  and  beat  them  well,  with  half  a  pint 
of  water ;  make  a  batter  of  this  and  of  the  meal ;  butter 
a  deep  basin  or  small  pan,  and  pour  the  batter  in,  then  set 
the  pan  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  cover  and  cook  in 
this  way  for  an  hour ;  then  put  the  bread  in  a  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour. 

Milk  Bread. — One  quart  of  milk ;  half  a  teacupf  ul  of 
yeast ;  one  pint  of  sifted  flour  ;  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter ;  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFEINS,  ETC.  267 

Stir  into  the  milk,  when  blood -warm,  first  the  flour, 
then  the  sugar,  and  lastly  the  yeast ;  beat  long  and  well, 
and  allow  to  rise  for  five  or  six  hours ;  then  add  the  but- 
ter melted,  and  a  little  salt;  work  in  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough ;  let  this  rise  four  hours,  then  make 
into  small  loaves ;  set  near  the  fire  for  half  an  hour,  and 
bake. 

Buttermilk  Biscuit.  —  One  pint  of  buttermilk;  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  into  the  flour  ;  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter ;  enough  fine  white  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough. 

Mix,  roll,  cut  out  quickly,  lay  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake 
iu  a  quick  oven. 

Flannel  Biscuit.  —  Half  a  pint  of  cream;  whites  of 
two  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  of  yeast;  enough  white  sift- 
ed flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Beat  all  well  together,  adding  the  flour  last;  bake  in 
small  square  tins,  on  a  buttered  pan,  and  in  a  quick  oven. 

Rye-Flour  Drop  Cakes. — One  quart  of  milk;  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  cream ;  three  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  a  little 
salt ;  enough  rye  flour  to  make  pancake  batter. 

Mix  in  the  order  above  given  ;  then  beat  the  batter 
hard  and  long,  with  a  large  iron  spoon,  adding  more  flour 
in  order  to  make  the  dough  a  little  stiffer ;  then  dip  the 
spoon  in  milk,  then  in  the  rye  batter,  and  drop  in  buttered 
drop-irons;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  fine  brown. 

Light  Biscuit  (Dinah's).  —  One  quart  of  wheat  flour, 
well  sifted ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  teacupful  of 
yeast ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  yeast ; 
one  egg',  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Sprinkle  the  salt  into  the  flour ;  then  add  the  lard,  egg, 
yeast,  and  sugar,  with  enougli  warm  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough  ;   put  into  a  pan,  cover,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm 


268  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

place ;  when  well  risen,  work  in  a  little  more  flour,  and 
make  it  into  small  rolls ;  put  them  into  a  hot  oven,  and 
bake. 

Soda  Biscuit  (Dinah's). — One  quart  of  flour ;  two  cup- 
f  uls  of  fresh  milk ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  soda  ;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  cream  of  tartar ;  one  saltspoonf ul  of  salt ;  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter. 

Rub  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  well  through  the  flour, 
and  sift  all  together  carefully  and  thoroughly  ;  then  put 
in  the  salt,  then  the  lard  or  butter,  rubbing  it  carefully 
into  the  sifted  flour;  lastly,  pour  in  the  milk;  roll  the 
dough  out  smoothly  and  quickly,  handling  as  little  as  pos- 
sible. It  should  be  very  soft,  nearly  as  soft  as  it  can  be 
handled ;  if  the  flour  should  make  it  too  stiff,  add  more 
milk.  Roll  out  lightly  ;  cut  into  cakes  half  an  inch  thick  ; 
lay  in  buttered  pans;  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Biscuit  ("Common-Sense  in  the  Household"). 
— Three  cupfuls  of  Graham  flour;  one  cupful  of  white 
flour;  three  cupfuls  of  fresh  or  sweet  milk;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar ;  one  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda ; 
two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  and  bake  as  you  do  the  white  soda  biscuit. 

Graham  Wafer  Biscuit. — One  pint  of  Graham  flour ; 
one  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Salt  the  flour,  and  mix  with  the  milk  into  as  soft  a 
dough  as  you  can  handle;  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into 
round  cakes,  lay  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  the  hottest 
oven  you  can  get. 

Bread  Biscuit  Bolls. — Set  aside  from  the  risen  dough 
enough  to  make  some  rolls;  work  in  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  tolerably 
cool  place  for  four  hours;  knead  again, and  leave  for  three 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  269 

hours ;  then  form  into  small  rolls  ;  put  them  into  but- 
tered pans;  let  the  rolls  rise  again  for  an  hour,  then  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour. 

liaised  Biscuit  (Dinah's). — One  quart  of  warm  milk ; 
three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  melted ;  three  quarters 
of  a  cup  of  yeast ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;    flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mix  overnight.  In  the  morning  roll  into  a  sheet  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  these  into  round  cakes ;  set 
them  closely  in  a  buttered  baking- pan,  let  them  rise 
twenty  minutes,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  They  are 
very  good. 

Milk  Cakes. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  finest  white 
flour,  sifted  ;  two  ounces  of  butter;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Roll  out  the  paste  thin,  and  cut  into  flat  cakes ;  put  into 
a  greased  or  buttered  pan,  and  bake  for  one  hour  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Tea  Loaves.— One  pound  of  flour  (as  above) ;  two  eggs  ; 
two  ounces  of  butter;  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder ; 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Knead  with  milk  into  small  loaves,  and  bake  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes. 

Brown- Bread  Biscuit.  —  One  pound  of  coarse  brown 
flour  or  oatmeal  flour;  two  ounces  of  butter;  a  little 
water. 

Make  the  butter  and  water  boiling  hot,  and  add  both  to 
the  flour,  keeping  the  paste  firm ;  roll  out  very  thin  ;  cut 
into  round  shapes  with  a  tumbler;  put  into  a  greased  or 
buttered  pan,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Crumpets. — To  a  quart  of  warm  milk  and  water  add  a 
tablespoonfnl  of  good  yeast,  and  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 


270  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Mix  with  these,  by  degrees,  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will 
make  a  thick  batter ;  then  heat  a  very  small  frying-pan  ; 
rub  it  with  butter,  and  pour  in  a  large  spoonful  of  batter, 
which  will  spread  over  the  pan.  Watch  the  under  side 
by  raising  it  with  a  fork,  and,  when  brown,  turn  it,  watch- 
ing the  other  side  in  the  same  way.  When  wanted  for 
the  table  they  should  be  toasted,  buttered,  and  sent  up  hot. 

Muffins. — Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour;  two  eggs,  well- 
beaten  ;  two  ounces  of  butter,  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk ; 
four  or  five  spoonfuls  of  yeast. 

Beat  thoroughly,  and  set  to  rise  for  two  or  three  hours ; 
bake  in  greased  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Laplanders. — One  pint  of  flour  ;  one  pint  of  milk  ;  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  one  pinch 
of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour  smoothly  together;  then  beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  them  in  with  the  salt  and 
batter;  stir  the  whites  of  the  eggs  in  last,  beating  all  well 
together;  have  the  pan  very  hot,  and  drop  in  a  large 
spoonful  for  each  biscuit. 

Marylanders. — Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  a  little 
water  and  salt. 

Make  the  dough  as  stiff  as  possible ;  then  work  and 
knead  it  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer,  until  very  soft  and 
pliable  ;  then  beat  it  with  a  rolling  pin  for  about  an  hour, 
or  until  the  dough  cracks  loudly;  cut  into  small  rounds; 
prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  success 
of  this  delicious  biscuit  depends  upon  the  long-continued 
pounding. 

Wafer  Biscuit. — One  pound  of  sifted  flour  ;  one  ounce 
of  butter ;  beaten  white  of  one  egg;  as  much  milk  as  will 
make  a  thick  paste. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  271 

Work   the   paste   np   well ;   then  set   before   the   fire 

for   twenty    minutes ;    roll    out    as  thin    as   paper,    cut 

into   round  cakes,  and   bake   three  minutes  in  a   quick 
oven. 

Captain'' s  Biscuit. — Pour  enough  milk  over  some  sifted 
flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  out ;  knead  and  roll  into 
smooth,  thin  sheets;  cut  into  rounds;  prick  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Orange  Biscuits. — Boil  whole  Seville  oranges  in  two 
or  three  waters  until  most  of  the  bitterness  is  gone ;  ci^ 
them  and  take  out  the  pulp  and  juice ;  then  pound  the 
rinds  to  a  fine  paste  in  a  mortar,  and  put  to  it  an  equal 
weight  of  double-refined  sugar,  beaten  and  sifted ;  when 
mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  spread  on  china  dishes  and  set  in 
the  sun  or  before  the  fire  to  dry ;  when  half  dry  cut  into 
rounds  ;  turn  the  other  side,  and  dry  that.  Keep  in  a  box 
between  layers  of  tissue  paper. 

Fayal  Biscuit. — One  cupful  of  sifted  flour ;  one  cupful 
of  milk  ;  three  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder ;  beat  all 
well  together,  and  bake  in  rings. 

Passover  Bread.  —  Six  Passover  biscuits,  soaked  all 
night ;  a  very  little  milk ;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  (melted) ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  drain  the  soaked 
biscuits;  chop  them  fine;  mix  with  the  seasoning  the  but- 
ter and  a  very  little  milk. 

Make  the  mixture  into  a  large  cake,  and  fry  it  well  on 
both  sides  in  butter. 

Batter  Bread  (Old  Virginia  Breakfast  Cake).  —  Six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
meal ;  four  eggs  beaten  well ;  enough  milk  to  enable  you 
to  make  the  whole  into  a  thin  batter ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt ; 


2V2  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

heat  well ;  put  into  small  tin  moulds,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Rice  Muffins. — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice  ;  one  pint 
of  flour,  sifted ;  two  eggs ;  one  quart  of  fresh  milk ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  hard,  and  bake  quickly. 

Hominy  Waffles. — Half  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy; 
half  a  pint  of  rice  flour;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour; 
one  pint  of  milk  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  two  eggs 
well  beaten. 

Mix,  and  bake  in  waflle  irons. 

Grandmamma  JY.'s  Waffles. — Make  precisely  as  above, 
substituting  cold  boiled  farina  for  the  hominy.  Grand- 
mamma EVs  waffles  are  delicious. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. — One  quart  of  buttermilk,  or  lop- 
pered  sweet  milk  ;  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

Stir  the  beaten  eggs  into  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and 
salt,  and,  lastly,  the  soda;  bake  at  once  in  a  quick  oven. 

Hominy  Muffins. — Three  cupf uls  of  sour  milk ;  two 
cupfuls  of  fine  hominy,  boiled  and  cold;  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  yolks  and  whites  separately  ;  half  a  cupful  of  melt- 
ed butter ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  sugar;  one  large  cupful  of  flour,  sifted;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the  hominy  smooth ;  then  stir  in  the  milk,  butter, 
salt,  and  sugar;  then  the  eggs,  soda,  and  flour;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Bread  Muffins. — Take  four  thick  slices  of  light,  stale, 
baker's  bread,  and  cut  off  all  the  crust ;  lay  them  in  a  pan 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  273 

and  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  but  barely  enough  to 
soak  them  well ;  cover  the  bread,  and  when  it  has  stood 
an  hour  drain  off  the  water  and  stir  the  soaked  bread  until 
it  is  a  smooth  mass ;  then  mix  in  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 
sifted  flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk;  having  beaten  two 
eggs — yolks  and  whites  separately — to  their  utmost  capac- 
ity, stir  them  gradually  into  the  mixture ;  when  all  the  in- 
gredients are  smoothly  mixed  together,  pour  into  greased 
muffin  rings  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle  ;  bake  brown,  send 
to  table  hot,  pull  apart,  and  butter.     They  are  very  good. 

Soft  Muffins.  —  One  quart  of  milk ;  three  eggs,  beaten 
to  the  utmost;  two  ounces  of  butter;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  two  large  tablespoonf  uls  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  of 
home-made;  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together,  and  add  the  salt ; 
beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  and 
butter;  then  stir  in  the  yeast,  and,  lastly,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter ;  cover  the  mixture,  and  set  it  to  rise 
for  three  hours  in  a  warm  place ;  when  it  is  quite  light, 
grease  the  baking-iron  and  rings,  set  the  rings  on  the  iron, 
pour  the  batter  into  them,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Griddle  Muffins. — One  quart  of  milk;  four  eggs;  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt ;  one  pound  and  ten  ounces  of  the 
finest  white  flour,  sifted. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
brewer's  yeast ;  set  it  to  rise  for  two  or  three  hours  before 
needed,  and  bake  the  muffins  in  rings. 

Oven  Muffins. — One  quart  of  milk;  four  eggs;  one  ta- 
blespoonful of  salt ;  two  pounds  of  the  finest  white  flour, 
sifted. 

Warm  the  milk  and  heat  all  together  well ;  then  add 
half  a  cupful  of  home-made  yeast ;  set  it  to  rise  for  nine 
hours ;  then  bake  the  muffins  in.  rings  in  a  quick  oven  for 
ten  minutes. 

12* 


274  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Madison  Muffins. — Three  pints  of  flour ;  two  eggs ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  lard ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar  in 
a  cupful  of  yeast. 

Make  up  the  muffins  with  warm  milk — a  little  softer 
than  for  light  bread ;  in  the  morning  roll  out  the  dough, 
cut  it  out  like  biscuit,  and  bake  in  an  oven. 

Flour  Muffins. — One  pint  of  flour;  one  pint  of  new 
milk ;  a  small  piece  of  butter ;  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately ;  and  a  little  salt. 

Mix,  bake,  and  serve  quickly,  as  they  fall  by  standing. 

Cream  Muffins. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream  ;  one  quart 
of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  six  eggs  well  beaten, 
whites  and  yolks  separately ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  melted  together. 

Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten  eggs,  then  a  little  salt,  then 
the  shortening,  lastly  the  flour,  stirring  it  in  lightly  ;  bake 
immediately  in  well-greased  rings  half  filled  with  batter; 
the  oven  should  be  hot,  and  the  muffins  eaten  as  soon  as 
baked. 

Pikelets. — One  and  a  half  ounces  of  German  yeast,  a 
little  flour,  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  a  quart  of  warm 
milk,  and  a  little  salt. 

Make  the  milk  warm,  and  stir  it  into  the  yeast  with  the 
salt;  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flour  to  make  it  into  a 
batter;  set  it  to  rise  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  a  cupful 
of  melted  butter,  stir  it  well  in,  pour  the  batter  into  iron 
rings  previously  prepared  on  a  hot  griddle,  and  bake  them 
lightly  on  both  sides ;  when  required,  toast  them  on  each 
side,  taking  care  they  do  not  burn  ;  butter  them  nicely,  cut 
them  across,  and  put  them  on  a  hot  plate,  serving  them 
quickly  and  hot. 

Tea  Cakes. — To  make  a  baking-powder  for  tea  cakes, 
take  half  a  pound  of  carbonate  of  soda,  half  a  pound  of 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUEFINS,  ETC.  2^5 

cream  of  tartar,  half  a  pound  of  fine  powdered  sugar,  half 
a  pound  of  fine  table  salt ;  mix  all  smoothly  and  well  to- 
gether and  pat  into  a  tin.  To  make  the  tea  cakes,  take 
one  teaspoonful  of  this  powder,  and  one  pound  of  the  fin- 
est white  flour,  sifted  ;  wet  with  sour  milk  or  cream,  mix 
into  small,  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Potato  Cakes. — Take  one  pound  of  mashed  potatoes ; 
two  ounces  of  butter ;  one  pound  of  the  finest  white  flour, 
sifted  ;  half  a  teacupful  of  cream  ;  one  egg  well  beaten  ; 
and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together,  then  roll  out  the  cakes  thin,  cut 
them  into  rounds,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

General  Washington^  Breakfast  Bolls. — One  pound  of 
flour;  one  pint  of  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  half 
a  coffeecupf  ul  of  yeast. 

Beat  the  batter  very  light,  and  set  it  to  rise ;  when  risen, 
shape  it  into  little  pats,  and  bake  them  in  the  oven. 

Potato  Polls. — Six  large  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed ; 
one  pint  of  warm  water ;  one  large  tablespoonful  of  melt- 
ed lard  ;  a  coffeespoonful  of  salt ;  three  tablespoonf uls  of 
brewer's  yeast ;  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or  more; 
when  quite  light  make  it  into  a  stiff  dough,  and  knead  it 
a  long  time  ;  cut  it  into  small  cakes,  put  the  cakes  in  pans, 
and  set  them  to  rise  on  the  warm  hearth ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  ten  minutes. 

Gems. — Four  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  one  and  a  half 
cupf uls  of  milk ;  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  water. 

Mix  and  beat  thoroughly  and  lightly  for  ten  minutes; 
heat  the  gem  pans  hot  in  the  oven,  then  butter  them ;  fill 
them  two  thirds  full,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pacific  Rolls. — One  pint  of  milk ;  one  and  a  half  pints 


276  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  sifted  flour ;  one  egg  well  beaten ;  half  a  teaspoonf ul 
of  salt. 

Stir  the  milk  by  degrees  into  the  flour,  then  add  the 
egg,  and  beat  all  thoroughly  for  a  few  minutes ;  bake  in 
a  roll  pan  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Betty's  Molls. — One  quart  of  milk ;  half  a  cupful  of 
yeast ;  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  lard  ;  two  tablespoonf uls  of 
sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  to  a  batter  early  in  the  morning,  and  at  noon  knead 
it  like  bread ;  roll  it  out ;  cut  it  into  rolls  with  a  small 
saucer.     It  must  rise  at  least  two  hours  before  baking. 

Parker  House  Molls. — Two- quarts  of  sifted  flour;  one 
cupful  of  yeast  (fresh);  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  sugar;  one 
pint  of  cold  boiled  milk;  one  pinch  of  salt;  one  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Rub  the  butter  well  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  other 
ingredients,  and  let  rise  all  night.  In  the  morning  knead 
it  well ;  about  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  roll  out  the 
dough  and  cut  it  into  circular  pieces;  then  fold  one  side 
over  to  come  to  the  middle  of  the  circle,  and  put  a  piece 
of  butter  under  the  fold ;  then  fold  the  opposite  side  in 
like  manner,  the  edges  meeting  in  the  middle,  and  put  a 
piece  of  butter  under  that  also ;  bake  in  pans. 

Tea  Molls. — One  pint  of  sifted  flour;  half  a  cake  of 
yeast;  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water;  one  teaspoonf  ul 
of  lard  dissolved  in  the  water ;  one  pinch  of  salt ;  one  egg 
well  beaten  ;  two  lumps  of  loaf  sugar. 

Mix  all  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  for  about  six  hours ;  then 
work  into  rolls,  adding  more  flour  if  necesssary  ;  put  into 
buttered  pans  to  rise,  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Musks. — One  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  one  cupful  of  sug- 
ar ;  one  cupful  of  flour. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  277 

Stir  your  flour  and  sugar  in  the  milk,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  for  four  or  five  hours  to  rise ;  then  beat  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  eggs ;  make  into  rolls  ;  let 
them  rise  again,  and  paint  them  with  the  beaten  white  of 
egg,  and  bake  rapidly  in  a  quick  oven. 

Dried  Rusk  ("Common-Sense  in  the  Household"). — 
One  pint  of  warm  milk;  two  eggs;  half  a  teacupful  of 
butter ;  half  a  cupful  of  yeast ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt. 

Set  a  sponge  with  these  ingredients,  leaving  out  the 
eggs,  and  stirring  in  flour  until  you  have  a  thick  batter; 
early  next  morning  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough ;  let  this  rise 
in  the  bread-bowl  two  hours ;  roll  into  a  sheet  nearly  an 
inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  arrange  in  a  greased 
baking-pan  two  deep,  laying  one  on  the  other  carefully ; 
let  these  stand  for  another  half-hour,  and  bake ;  when  well 
baked  divide  the  rusks,  pile  them  up  loosely  in  the  pan, 
set  them  in  the  oven  when  the  fire  is  declining  for  the 
night,  and  leave  them  there  until  the  morning ;  then  put 
them  into  a  clean  muslin  bag  and  hang  them  up  in  the 
kitchen.  They  will  be  fit  to  eat  upon  the  third  day ;  then 
butter  them  evenly  and  carefully ;  let  them  stand  in  a 
warm,  not  hot,  place  until  the  butter  has  been  absorbed ; 
then  put  as  many  as  you  need  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  cream.  The  milk 
and  cream  should  be  stirred  together  and  left  on  the  ice 
an  hour  before  you  want  to  use  it. 

Or,  you  may  soak  the  rusks  a  moment  or  two  in  iced 
milk,  and  then  butter  them. 

Scotch  Short  Bread. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted  ;  one 
pound  of  the  best  butter  warmed  until  very  soft ;  half  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Chop  the  flour  and  butter  together,  knead  in  the  sugar, 
roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  shapes,  lay  on 
buttered  paper  in  a  shallow  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


278  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Old-fashioned  Short  Bread. — One  pound  of  the  finest 
white  flour,  dried  and  sifted ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter; quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  ;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt ; 
a  pinch  of  soda,  thoroughly  dissolved  in  just  enough  vine- 
gar to  cover  it,  and  well  worked  in;  enough  ice-water  to 
enable  you  to  roll  out  into  paste  half  an  inch  thick. 

Cut  into  rounds,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  light  brown  ; 
split,  butter,  and  eat  hot. 

Shaker's  Short  Cake. — Two  quarts  of  flour,  sifted ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard ;  three  tablespoonf uls  of  butter ; 
two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  loppered  cream ;  two  eggs  well 
beaten ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  this  short  cake  as  soft  as  you  can  roll  it ;  chop  up 
the  shortening  in  the  salted  flour,  as  for  pastry ;  add  the 
eggs  and  soda  to  the  milk ;  put  all  together,  handling  as 
little  as  possible;  roll  lightly  and  rapidly  into  two  sheets — 
the  one  intended  for  the  upper  crust  fully  half  an  inch 
thick,  the  lower  somewhat  less ;  lay  the  lower  in  a  well- 
greased  baking-pan  ;  spread  thickly  over  it  whatever  fresh 
fruit  you  prefer,  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  fruit,  cover  with 
the  thicker  crust,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes;  eat  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. — One  quart  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one  large  cup- 
ful of  sour  cream ;  one  egg  well  beaten ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  white  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Proceed  precisely  as  for  Shaker's  short  cake,  except  that 
this  short  cake  is  to  be  baked  round  in  jelly-cake  tins,  one 
round  of  paste  piled  upon  another;  while  warm  separate 
them  ;  put  alternate  rounds  of  short  cake  and  fresh  straw- 
berries, the  latter  sprinkled  with  sugar,  until  you  have  a 
pile  higher  than  a  "Sally  Lunn  ;"  eat  cold  with  cream. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  279 

Scotch  Oatmeal  Scones. — Put  some  Scotch  oatmeal  into 
a  bowl,  and  poor  over  it  a  jugful  of  boiling  water  in  which 
half  an  ounce  of  salt  butter  has  been  dissolved ;  stir  as 
quickly  as  possible  into  a  dough,  then  turn  out  upon  the 
moulding-board,  and  roll  out  as  thinly  as  possible ;  -then 
cut  into  rounds  and  dry  on  a  griddle;  afterwards  toast 
both  sides  before  the  lire,  butter,  pile  on  a  plate,  and 
serve. 

Scotch  Flour  Scones. — Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  boil 
it  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter ;  wben  it  boils,  pour  it  over 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour,  stirring  it  quickly  round 
and  round,  and  adding  enough  water  to  enable  you  to  roll 
it  out;  knead,  and  roll  it  out  to  a  thin  paste;  then  cut 
with  a  tumbler  into  small,  round  scones,  cook  them  on  both 
sides  on  a  griddle,  and  pile  on  a  hot  plate  in  a  folded  nap- 
kin.    They  should  be  served  white  and  hot. 

Waffles,  ~No.  1. — One  quart  of  milk  carefully  thickened 
with  a  little  sifted  flour;  one  pound  of  butter  melted  in 
the  milk ;  ten  eggs,  beaten  light ;  a  little  salt ;  enough 
yeast  to  make  it  rise — the  quantity  must  be  regulated  by 
the  quality  of  the  yeast. 

Set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  To  be  eaten  in  the  even- 
ing waffles  should  be  mixed  early  in  the  morning  in  win- 
ter, and  in  summer  at  midday ;  bake  in  waffle  irons. 

Waffles,  No.  2. — Three  pints  of  fresh  milk  ;  twelve  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  warmed  in  the  milk ;  one  small  teacupful  of  yeast. 

Add  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  the  batter  as  thick  as 
pancakes  ;  the  white  of  the  eggs  must  be  put  in  last ;  beat 
it  up  well ;  let  it  rise  a  little  while,  and  bake  in  waffle 
irons  well  greased  with  butter. 

Mother's  Yeast  Cakes. — Boil  a  double  handful  of  hops 
in  a  quart  of  water  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint ;  strain  it, 


280  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

take  half,  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter ; 
let  the  other  half  cool,  dissolve  in  it  one  yeast  cake,  stir  it 
in  the  batter,  and  beat  it  well ;  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place; 
in  the  morning  stir  in  enough  fine  cornmeal  to  make  the 
cakes ;  roll  it  out,  cut  out  the  cakes,  and  dry  them  in  the 
shade;  keep  them  always  in  a  dry  place. 

Beawprh  Waffles. — Half  a  pound  of  butter  stirred  to  a 
cream  ;  the  yolks  of  live  eggs  stirred  in  half  a  pound  of 
flour ;  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  gradually  stirred  in  ;  last- 
ly, the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stirred 
in  the  batter. 

Minute  Waffles. — One  heaping  pint  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted ;  three  pints  of  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
in  the  flour;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  the  flour; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  three  eggs  beaten  light. 

Mix,  and  bake  in  well-buttered  waffle  irons. 

Mice  and  Cornmeal  Waffles. — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled 
rice ;  half  a  cupful  of  white  flour,  sifted,  and  the  same  of 
cornmeal;  two  eggs  well  beaten;  milk  to  make  a  soft 
batter;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt. 

Beat  all  well  and  smoothly  together,  and  bake  in  well- 
greased  waffle  irons. 

Mice  Waffles,  No.  1. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  boiled 
rice;  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  a  little  salt;  two  eggs 
well  beaten. 

Mix  with  milk  to  a  batter  rather  thicker  than  pancake 
batter. 

Mice  Waffles,  No.  2. — Half  a  pint  of  rice,  picked,  washed, 
boiled  very  soft,  then  drained,  and  allowed  to  cool ;  one  and 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  281 

a  half  pints  of  flour  sifted  over  the  pan  of  rice ;  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  warmed  at  the  fire ;  one  quart  of  fresh 
milk ;  five  eggs  beaten  light. 

When  you  have  sifted  the  flour  into  the  rice,  stir  in  the 
warmed  butter  and  the  salt ;  then  stir  the  beaten  eggs 
gradually  into  the  milk ;  then  beat  all  together,  and  bake 
in  well-greased  waffle  irons ;  serve  very  hot. 

Indian-Meal  Waffles. — Half  a  pint  of  cornmeal ;  one 
pint  of  flour;  one  teacupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy;  one 
egg;  half  a  pint  of  sour  milk  ;  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  ;  a 
pinch  of  soda. 

Mix  together  smoothly  and  bake  quickly.  The  secret 
of  good  waffles  is  very  thin  batter,  very  tight  irons,  and  a 
very  hot  fire. 

Indian  Stoppers. — One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  sifted; 
two  quarts  of  milk ;  four  eggs  well  beaten  ;  salt  to  taste. 

Pour  the  milk  boiling-hot  over  the  Indian  meal,  and 
beat  until  quite  smooth ;  then  add  the  beaten  eggs  and 
salt ;  stir  well  together,  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

Maryland  Corn  Cake. — One  pint  of  Indian  meal,  sifted  ; 
a  pinch  of  salt;  enough  rich  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter; 
one  egg  well  beaten. 

Mix  smoothly,  and  bake  on  a  griddle  in  thin  cakes  the 
size  of  a  tea-plate.     Butter  and  send  to  table  hot. 

Baltimore  Indian  Cake. — One  cupful  of  flour,  sifted  ; 
three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  also  sifted;  one 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  rich  milk ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  soda ; 
one  and  a  half  teaspoonf uls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  one  egg, 
well  beaten  up,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar. 

Little  Indian  Cakes. — One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  sifted  ; 

two  teaspoonf  uls  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  best  lard. 

Mix  the  lard  and  meal  together  ;  pour  boiling  water  on 


282  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

half  the  meal ;  stir  it,  add  the  rest,  and  as  much  cold  wa- 
ter as  will  enable  you  to  make  it  out  in  cakes  of  conven- 
ient size;  bake  on  a  baking-iron. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. — This  quantity  is  for  twelve  muffins. 
One  pint  of  cornmeal,  sifted  ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt ;  one 
teacupful  of  boiled  rice,  cold  ;  a  light  handful  of  fine  flour, 
sifted  ;  one  egg  well  beaten ;  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  or 
sour  milk  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda  ;  one  tablespoonfui  of 
melted  lard. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  add  the  meal,  egg, 
rice,  and  other  ingredients.  If  the  batter  is  too  thick,  add 
enough  warm  water  to  make  the  batter  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency. The  lard  should  be  added  last.  Bake  quickly 
in  hot,  well-greased  muffin-rings. 

Com  Muffins. — Three  pints  of  milk  ;  as  much  cornmeal 
stirred  in  as  will  make  a  thick  batter;  two  handfuls  of 
wheat  flour, sifted;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt;  three  eggs; 
one  teacupful  of  yeast. 

Warm  the  milk  ;  stir  in  as  much  cornmeal  as  will  make 
a  thick  batter ;  add  the  other  ingredients :  beat  all  well 
together;  let  it  rise  for  six  hours,  then  bake  like  other 
muffins. 

Indian  Muffins. — One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  sifted  ; 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  half  a 
teacupful  of  yeast ;  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  one  pinch  of 
salt. 

Warm  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  stir  it  into  the  meal, 
with  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  batter ;  then  add  the 
eggs,  yeast,  and  salt;  stir  well,  and  set  it  to  rise;  bake  in 
large  rings. 

Corn  Rusks. — One  pint  of  Indian  meal;  one  quart  of 
boiling  milk;  half  a  teacupful  of  melted  butter;  pinch  of 
salt ;  three  eggs. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  283 

Scald  the  meal«in  the  milk;  add  the  butter,  eggs,  and 
enough  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  out,  and  enough  yeast 
to  make  the  dough  rise;  set  it  to  rise;  roll  it  into  little 
loaves,  and  bake  brown. 

Mary  Anne's  Indian  Cake. — One  pint  of  sour  milk ; 
one  cupful  of  Indian  meal;  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour; 
one  egg  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Dinars  Corn  Cake. — One  pint  of  milk ;  two  cnpfuls 
of  Indian  meal ;  two  eggs  ;  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  one  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt ;  one  half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Bake  in  two  pans  in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Aunt  Ginmfs  Mush  Calces. — One  pint  of  mush  ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard;  one  gill  of  flour;  one  egg. 

Beat  well  together,  and  drop  from  spoon  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Granny's  Corn  Bread.  —  Two  teacupfuls  of  boiled 
hominy;  while  hot,  mix  in  one  large  spoonful  of  butter 
or  lard ;  beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the 
hominy;  stir  in  gradually  one  pint  of  milk, a  half  a  pint 
of  sifted  cornmeal,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  the  batter  should 
be  as  thick  as  a  rich  boiled  custard  ;  add  milk  if  thicker. 
Bake  with  a  good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom  of  the  oven, 
and  not  too  much  on  top,  so  as  to  insure  rising. 

South  Carolina  Rice  Johnny  Cake,  No.  1. — Equal  propor- 
tions of  fine  hominy,  rice,  and  rice  flour.  The  two  former 
must  be  boiled  and  cold  before  the  rice  flour  is  added.  Mix 
all  with  milk ;  then  spread  on  a  board,  and  bake  it  before 
the  fire.     Split  open  and  butter  for  the  table. 

Rice  Johnny  Cake,  No.  2. — Half  a  pint  of  soft-boiled 


284  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

rice,  with  just  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  stick  on  a 
board;  salt  it,  and  spread  it  on  a  board;  baste  with  cream 
or  butter ;  cream  is  best ;  set  it  before  a  hot  fire,  and  let 
it  bake  until  nicely  browned  ;  then  slip  a  thread  under  to 
disengage  it  from  the  board ;  turn,  and  bake  the  other 
side,  basting  continually. 

•Rice  Pone. — One  pint  of  nicely  boiled  rice  ;  one  pint 
of  fresh  milk ;  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter ;  a  small  tea- 
cupful  of  corn  meal ;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  three  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  add  the  milk  and  rice  to  the  beaten  eggs ; 
then  the  butter,  cornmeal,  and  salt.  Pour  all  in  a  well- 
buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  iij  a  hot  oven  from  half  to 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Hot  Cross  Buns. — Three  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk ;  one 
cupful  of  yeast ;  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Set  this  as  a 
sponge  overnight.  In  the  morning  add  one  cup  of  sugar ; 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  melted ;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  one 
saltspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit ; 
knead  well,  and  set  to  rise  for  five  hours  ;  roll  half  an  inch 
thick  into  round  cakes;  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking- 
pan  ;  in  half  an  hour  make  a  deep  cross  on  each  with  a 
knife,  and  instantly  put  into  the  oven  ;  bake  a  light  brown ; 
brush  over  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  then  dust  with  gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Sally  Lunn.  —  One  quart  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted; 
four  eggs ;  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter ;  one  cupful  of 
warm  milk  ;  one  cupful  of  warm  water ;  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  yeast ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot 
water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  the  milk,  water, 
butter, soda,  and  salt;  stir  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter, 
and  beat  the  yeast  in  well ;  set  to  rise  in  a  deep  buttered 
dish;  it  should  rise  six  hours;  then  bake  steadily  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.     Eat  hot. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  285 

Briache. — One  pound  of  fine  white  flour,  sifted  ;  three 
ounces  of  butter ;  one  teacupful  of  milk,  warm ;  half  a 
teacupful  of  home-made  yeast ;  three  eggs,  beaten  light ; 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together ;  make  into  a  dongh  as  soft  as  you 
can  possibly  knead  it,  and  place  the  loaf  in  a  well-buttered 
pan  to  rise ;  keep  the  pan  closely  covered,  and  let  the 
dough  rise  four  hours  ;  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  thirty 
minutes.  Briache  is  much  better  baked  in  small  round 
cake-tins. 

Popovers. — Two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  two  cupfuls  of 
milk;  two  eggs;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
a  little  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together ;  put  into  buttered  cups  ;  fill  half 
full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Moonshine. — One  quart  of  flour,  sifted ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  lard  ;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  enough  cold  water  to  enable  you  to  mix 
all  into  a  dough. 

When  it  becomes  the  consistency  of  bread  dongh,  beat 
it  with  a  rolling-pin  twenty  minutes,  holding  the  dongh 
in  the  left  hand  while  beating  with  the  pin  ;  roll  it  very 
thin,  and  cut  with  a  fag-iron  into  long,  thin  strips ;  lay  in 
a  buttered  baking-pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Virginia  Quinimies. — One  quart  of  sifted  flour;  two 
ounces  of  butter ;  one  cupful  of  milk ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Knead  and  pound  well ;  roll  out  very  thin — as  thin  as 
paper — cut  into  rounds,  and  bake  them  a  pale  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Quinimies,l$o.  2  (Mme.  Eugene).  —  Half  a  pint  of 
cream ;    whites  of  two  eggs ;    one  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 

Beat  all  together,  adding  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter;  bake  in  small  square  tins,  well  buttered. 


286  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Xantijppe  Johnny  Cake. — One  quart  of  milk  ;  two  eggs, 
well  beaten ;  one  piece  each  of  lard  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  one  quart  of  milk;  one  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ; 
Indian  meal  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Melt  the  butter,  and  beat  altogether  for  ten  minutes ; 
put  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour;  test  with  a  broom  splint  as  for  cake. 

Maryland  Pone. — Three  eggs  ;  one  pint  of  milk  ;  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  saltspoonf  ul  of  soda  ;  Indian 
meal  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  porridge. 

Put  about  an  inch  deep  in  the  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS. 

Always  bake  griddle-cakes  upon  a  soapstone  griddle. 
Never  allow  the  smallest  drop  of  grease  to  fall  upon  a 
soapstone  griddle,  as  it  will  spoil  it  for  future  use.  If, 
however,  you  happen  to  be  where  soapstone  griddles  are 
not  to  be  had,  wash  your  iron  griddle  well  with  soap  and 
water,  dry  thoroughly  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  then  rub 
well  with  dry  salt.  Wipe  off,  heat  the  griddle,  and  grease 
with  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  on  a  fork.  Put  on  as  little 
fat  as  possible.  Test  the  griddle  at  first  with  a  single 
cake.  Turn  the  cakes  always  with  a  tin  spatula,  not  with 
a  knife.  In  preparing  the  batter  for  any  griddle-cakes, 
beat  it  hard  and  long.  This  will  make  the  cakes  not  only 
smooth,  but  light. 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  No.  1. — Three  quarts  of  water  as  warm 
as  the  hand  can  bear  it  (i.  <?.,  in  winter) ;  enough  buck- 
wheat meal  to  thicken  the  batter. 

Beat  it  well  until  it  is  as  smooth  as  velvet;  add  salt, 
and  a  teacnpf ul  of  good  fresh  yeast ;  then  beat  again  ; 
cover  the  crock  with  a  towel,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place — if  the  weather  be  cold,  not  far  from  the  fire ;  in 
eight  or  ten  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use ;  the  batter, 
when  risen,  should  be  so  light  and  spongy  that  the  cakes 
will  rise  quite  thick;  bake  a  fine  brown  on  ooih  sides  ; 
serve  instantly  on  a  hot  plate.  Remember  that  thin  buck- 
wheat cakes  are  not  so  good.  The  above  quantity  is 
enough  for  ten  persons. 


288  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  No.  2.  —  One  quart  of  buckwheat 
meal;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour;  one  teacupful 
of  good  yeast;  one  pint  of  good  milk;  half  a  pint  of 
warm  water;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one  tablespoonful 
of  molasses. 

Put  the  yeast  in  first,  and  mix  it  with  the  flour ;  then 
add  the  milk,  water,  salt,  and  molasses ;  beat  long  and 
well ;  set  to  rise  in  the  evening,  and  bake  for  breakfast. 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  No.  3. — One  quart  of  warm  water; 
one  pound  and  five  ounces  of  buckwheat  meal;  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  salt ;  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  brewer's 
yeast;  one  large  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 

Beat  well,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  two  and  a 
half  hours ;  then  bake  as  above. 

New  England  Breakfast  Pancakes. — One  pint  of  sour 
milk ;  soda  enough  to  sweeten  it ;  a  little  salt ;  one  table- 
spoonful of  molasses ;  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Mix,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Indian-Meal  Batter  Cakes. — One  quart  of  bolted  Indian 
meal ;  one  teacupful  of  flour ;  one  quart  of  milk  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast;  three  eggs. 

Put  the  yeast  and  salt  into  the  milk  when  quite  warm, 
add  the  eggs,  and  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  meal ;  let  it 
rise  all  night,  and,  if  it  sours,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  ; 
bake  on  a  griddle. 

Corn  Griddle- Cakes. —  One  quart  of  rich  milk;  three 
eggs ;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  a  spoonful  of  wheat  flour ; 
enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  thin  batter  (the  thinner  the 
better). 

Bake  on  the  griddle  in  small  cakes,  butter  them,  and 
send  them  hot  to  table. 

Indian-Meal  Flannel  Cakes. — One  pint  of  fine  Indian 


GRIDDLE-CAKES.  289 

meal;  one  pint  of  wheat  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
two  gills  of  yeast. 

Mix  the  wheat  flour  and  Indian  meal  together  with  as 
much  tepid  water  as  will  make  a  thin  batter;  add  the 
yeast  and  salt,  and  let  rise  all  night. 

Virginia  Batter  Griddle- Cakes. — One  cupful  of  wheat 
flour,  sifted  ;  one  cupful  of  white  Indian  meal ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  melted,  and  added  in  the  morning; 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  add- 
ed in  the  morning ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  yeast ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  overnight,  adding  in  the  morning  the  butter  and 
soda ;  bake  on  a  very  hot  griddle. 

Grandpa? s  Favorites  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold "). — One  quart  of  milk ;  two  cupf  uls  of  stale  bread 
crumbs :  one  good  handful  of  flour ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter;  three  eggs  well  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt. 

Work  the  bread  and  milk  smooth ;  add  the  butter  and 
eggs,  then  the  salt,  and  just  enough  flour  to  bind  all ;  if 
too  thick,  add  milk  ;  beat  hard  and  long,  and  bake  at  once 
on  a  hot  griddle. 

Rice  Flour  or  Velvet  Cakes. — One  pint  of  milk;  one 
pint  of  cream ;  three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  and  very  stiff ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  rice  flour. 

Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk ;  add  the  salt,  then 
the  rice  flour,  and  then  the  whites ;  beat  smooth,  and  bake 
instantly. 

Cream  Cakes. — One  pint  of  cream;  one  pint  of  milk, 
slightly  sour ;  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  well 
stirred  in. 

Beat  smooth,  and  bake  at  once. 

13 


290  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Flannel  Calces,  Eo.  1. — To  one  pint  of  flour  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten  ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mashed  small 
hominy  well  boiled  and  only  lukewarm  ;  a  little  yeast, 
and  milk  enough  for  a  stiff  batter. 

Make  them  up  at  bedtime,  and  if  you  find  them  a  little 
sour,  put  in  some  saleratus. 

Flannel  Cakes,  No.  2. — One  quart  of  milk ;  two  eggs, 
the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately;  flour  to  make  a 
consistent  batter;  one  spoonful  of  melted  butter;  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  soda ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  the  flour  and  milk;  then  a  little  salt  and  the  beat- 
en yolks ;  then  the  melted  butter,  and  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar,  dissolved  in  milk;  beat  thoroughly,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  immediately. 

Vanity  Griddle- Cakes. — One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  ;  one 
teaspoonf  ul  of  soda ;  a  little  salt. 

Mix  with  sour  cream  to  a  thin  batter,  and  beat  hard  for 
eight  minutes ;  pour  on  a  hot  griddle  in  thin  cakes,  and 
fry  them  quickly. 

Graham  Cakes. — Two  cupf tils  of  brown  flour ;  one  cup- 
ful of  white  flour;  three  cupfuls  of  buttermilk;  three 
eggs  beaten  very  light ;  one  full  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  heaping 
tablespoonfnl  of  lard. 

Mix  and  beat  well,  and  bake  immediately. 

Rye  and  Indian  Griddle- Cakes. — Half  a  pint  of  Indian 
meal,  scalded  soft  with  milk ;  half  a  pint  of  rye  meal, 
stirred  into  the  above  when  cold ;  half  a  tablespoonfnl  of 
molasses. 

Beat  as  usual ;  the  batter  should  be  a  little  thicker  than 
for  buckwheats ;  bake  as  soon  as  mixed. 

Hominy  Pancakes. — One  pint  of  boiled  hominy ;  one 


GRIDDLE-CAKES.  291 

tablespoonful  of  butter ;  three  eggs  beaten  light ;  one  pint 
of  sour  milk  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Put  the  butter  and  eggs  into  the  hominy  while  warm, 
then  add  the  milk  and  soda ;  beat  smooth ;  if  not  thick 
enough, add  corn-starch  to  bind  it;  bake  in  a  well-greased 
pan. 

Cream  Pancakes. — One  pint  of  rich  cream;  eight  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  one  whole  nutmeg, 
grated  fine  ;  a  pincli  of  salt ;  half  a  pound  of  butter,  melt- 
ed ;  flour  enough  to  make  an  ordinary  batter. 

Fry  in  butter;  before  serving,  strew  sugar  over  them, 
and  garnish  the  dish  with  preserve. 

Mary  Annds  Pancakes.  —  One  quart  of  new  milk  • 
eight  eggs ;  one  pound  of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted. 

Stir  the  milk  into  the  eggs,  which  should  previously  be 
beaten  very  light ;  sift  into  this  the  flour  very  gradually ; 
beat  smooth,  adding  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt;  fry  brown  on 
both  sides,  in  butter ;  serve  hot,  with  powdered  cinnamon, 
sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Swedish  Pancakes. — One  pint  of  the  finest  white  flour, 
sifted  ;  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  to  the 
utmost  ;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  one  saltspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  vinegar;  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Beat  the  yolks  light,  add  the  salt,  soda,  two  cupfuls  of 
milk,  then  the  flour,  and  beaten  whites  alternately;  thin 
with  more  milk  if  necessary. 

Swedish  Pancakes,  with  Jam. — Proceed  as  above,  but 
spread  each  pancake,  when  fried,  very  thickly  with  rasp- 
berry jam,  and  roll  up  nicely ;  serve  with  cream  sauce, 
or  Old  Humphrey's  aigre-doux  sauce. 

Of  course,  you  may  use  any  preserve  you  like,  but  in  Swe- 
den raspberry  jam  and  pancakes  are  always  used  together. 


DESSERT  PANCAKES,  DUMPLINGS, 
AND  FRITTERS. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  FRYING   FRITTERS  AND  PANCAKES. 

Fry  fritters  in  deep,  round-bottomed  saucepans  of  boil- 
ing butter  or  lard,  testing  the'heat  by  dropping  a  spoonful 
in  to  try.  It  ought  to  rise  instantly  to  the  surface  puffed 
up,  and  should  be  of  a  rich,  golden  brown.  Fry  carefully, 
remove  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain  on  soft  paper  or 
old,  soft  linen,  pile  on  a  hot  plate,  dust  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  serve.  Use  rather  a  small,  and  not  too  old  a 
frying-pan  for  frying  pancakes;  heat  it,  put  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  two  of  lard,  and  run  it  over  the  bottom  very 
quickly;  then  pour  in  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan  with  a  thin  sheet ;  turn  carefully  with  a 
tin  spatula,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar, 
roll  up  quickly,  and  serve. 


White  Dumplings. — Beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and 
powdered  iine;  double  the  quantity  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted. 

Make  into  dumplings,  tie  up  in  floured  bags,  and  boil 
six  hours;  put  them  aside  until  you  are  ready  to  use 
them  ;  then  put  them  on  a  tin  plate,  and  bake  them  brown 
in  the  oven  ;  eat  them  hot  with  buckwheat  cakes. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Two  pounds  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted  ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter;  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  fine,  large  pippins,  pared  and  cored. 


DESSERT  PANCAKES,  DUMPLINGS,  AND  FRITTERS.    293 

Make  the  dough  in  a  sheet  thicker  than  for  pies ;  fill 
the  hollowed  core  of  each  apple  with  loaf  sugar ;  en- 
velop each  apple  in  dough,  pinching  the  dough  together 
to  close  the  seams,  and  rolling  with  floured  hands  into  a 
ball;  tie  up  each  one  in  a  little  dumpling  cloth ;  boil  one 
hour,  turn  out,  and  eat  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Molasses  Dumplings. — One  pound  of  the  finest  wThite 
flour,  sifted;  six  ounces  of  good  butter;  three  or  four 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Make  up  the  dough  with  a  little  water,  roll  into  thick 
cakes,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  in  equal  quantities  of  mo- 
lasses and  wTater. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — Make  the  paste  in  the  usual 
manner;  pare  and  core  the  apples;  fill  the  hollowed  core 
of  each  one  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  lemon  peel;  wrap 
each  one  carefully  in  paste  of  the  usual  thickness ;  put 
them  to  bake  in  a  dish  or  pan,  with  a  little  sugar  and  wa- 
ter at  the  bottom  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  baste 
them  occasionally  ;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Potato-Crust  Dumplings. — Two  quarts  of  sifted  white 
flour ;  fourteen  white  potatoes. 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  the  potatoes  fine;  sift  the  flour 
into  the  potatoes  gradually,  mixing  them  well  together 
with  the  hand ;  add  enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  roll  out  on  the  paste-board  into  as 
thick  a  sheet  as  you  wish,  and  use  for  apple,  peach,  plum, 
or  any  other  kind  of  fruit  dumpling.  All  dumplings 
should  be  tied  securely  in  well-floured  dumpling  cloths. 

Apple  Fritters. — One  quart  of  milk;  six  eggs,  yolks 
only,  well  beaten ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted 
flour ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  ap- 
ples. 

Beat  the  yolks  well,  stir  them  into  the  milk,  and  add, 


294  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

by  degrees,  the  flour  and  salt ;  beat  the  batter  hard  and 
long,  have  it  prepared  some  time  before  they  are  cooked, 
and  from  time  to  time  beat  it  a  little ;  just  before  frying 
beat  in  the  chopped  apple ;  fry  in  a  deep  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing lard,  dropping  it  in  by  spoonfuls;  serve  hot  with  any 
sauce  you  prefer. 

Orange  Fritters. — One  pound  of  flour,  light  weight; 
yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  separately ;  a  pinch 
of  salt ;  grated  rind  of  two  oranges. 

Stir  the  flour  into  water  until  it  makes  a  thick  batter ; 
add  the  salt,*  beat  it  well,  then  beat  in  the  beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites ;  proceed  as  for 
apple  fritters,  beating  in  the  orange  peel  (Rightly  grated^ 
last  of  all ;  fry  as  above  and  serve  hot,  with  hard  sauce 
flavored  with  orange  juice. 

Passover  Fritters. — Passover  biscuit,  soaked  all  night  in 
cold  water  and  beaten  to  a  pulp ;  four  to  six  eggs,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  biscuit ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered cinnamon ;  two  tablespoon!' uls  of  Sultana  raisins 
seeded  and  chopped  ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Sweeten  the  mashed  biscuit  to  taste,  whip  in  the  already 
well-beaten  eggs,  add  the  cinnamon  and  raisins,  beat  the 
batter  light,  and  fry  as  above. 

DinahJs  Fritters. — A  loaf  of  stale  bread  rolled  into 
crumbs  and  browned ;  four  eggs  very  well  beaten ;  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  Madeira. 

Beat  all  well  together  into  a  light  batter,  adding  a  little 
milk  if  necessary ;  fry  as  above,  and  eat  with  any  sauce 
you  prefer. 

Rice  Fritters.  —  Two  teacupf uls  of  rice  well  boiled ; 
three  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  some  sifted  flour,  enough  to 
bind  all  together ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  fry  as  usual. 


DESSERT  PANCAKES,  DUMPLINGS,  AND  FRITTERS.   295 

Golden  Ball  Fritters. — One  pint  of  water ;  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  one  pint  of  flour ;  six  eggs  beat- 
en very  light. 

Put  the  butter  into  the  water,  let  it  boil  a  few  moments, 
then  thicken  it  smoothly  with  flour ;  let  it  remain  a  short 
time  on  the  tire,  stirring  steadily  all  the  time,  then  pour 
into  a  bowl,  and  mix  with  it  six  eggs  beaten  very  light; 
beat  the  batter  hard  and  long;  fry  in  a  deep  saucepan, 
stirring  the  butter  or  lard  hard  until  it  whirls ;  then  drop 
in  the  fritters  by  spoonfuls,  and  fry  as  round  as  balls. 

Thanksgiving  Fritters. — One  quart  of  rich  milk;  six 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light ; 
three  eupfuls  of  flour  sifted ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar sifted  into  the  flour ;  a  little  salt. 

Beat  the  milk  into  the  already  beaten  yolks,  then  add  in 
order  the  soda,  the  flour,  and  salt,  finally  the  whites ;  beat 
very  hard,  and  when  just  ready  to  fry  beat  in  some  apple 
prepared  as  follows:  Six  large  juicy  apples  pared,  cut  into 
thin  quarters  or  eighths,  and  stewed  in  a  covered  saucepan 
with  one  wineglassful  of  brandy,  one  tablespoonful  of 
white  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  wineglass- 
fuls  of  water;  when  half  stewed  drain  off  the  liquor,  and 
when  cold  beat  into  the  batter ;  fry  as  round  as  balls,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

Cake  Fritters. — Stale  cake  cut  into  rounds  or  squares, 
and  lightly  fried  in  lard  to  a  nice  brown. 

Dip  each  slice,  when  fried,  in  boiling  milk,  drain  quick- 
ly, spread  with  preserve,  and  pile  on  a  hot  dish ;  serve 
with  cream  sauce. 

Pink  Fritters. — One  cupful  of  cake  crumbs,  light  and 
dry ;  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk ;  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  moistened  with  cold 
milk ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly. 


296  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in  the 
corn-starch ;  heat  all  together  to  a  boil,  stirring  steadily ; 
beat  the  yolks  light,  and  when  the  custard  cools  whip  in 
the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  jelly,  and  beaten  whites ;  fry 
as  round  as  balls. 

Boulettes. — Three  eggs ;  three  tablespoonf uls  of  sour 
cream ;  one  spoonful  of  butter ;  one  pinch  of  salt. 

Cream  the  butter ;  add  the  eggs  and  sour  cream  ;  enough 
flour  to  make  a  paste ;  add  the  salt ;  take  a  spoonful  of 
the  paste  and  throw  it  into  boiling  water ;  cook  until  the 
bouletie  rises  to  the  surface ;  eat  it  with  melted  butter,  or 
any  berries. 

Paste  for  fritters. — Put  some  flour  in  a  dish;  make  a 
hole  in  the  centre  and  break  in  one  or  two  yolks  of  eggs ; 
a  spoonful  of  olive-oil,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  brandy ; 
a  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  it  always  in  the  same  direction,  add- 
ing by  degrees  a  little  water,  to  make  it  the  proper  con- 
sistency ;  just  before  you  need  it,  stir  in  the  white  of  the 
egg,  beaten  very  stiff.  It  is  best  to  prepare  it  the  evening 
before  ;  it  becomes  lighter.  If  it  is  for  sweet  fritters,  put 
very  little  salt,  and  add  a  little  orange-flower  water. 

Spanish  Pain  Perdu,  or  Tortillas. — Take  slices  of  stale 
white  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  steep  in  water,  take  them 
out  and  dry  them,  then  put  into  a  saucepan,  cover  and 
heat  them ;  when  they  have  swelled  very  much,  fry  in 
butter  or  the  finest  olive-oil ;  serve  with  chocolate. 

German  or  Queerfs  Toast. — Slices  of  light,  white,  stale 
bread,  cut  in  rounds,  fried,  dipped  in  boiling  milk  to  re- 
move the  grease,  drained,  dusted  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  piled  on  a  hot  plate ;  pour  sweet  wine  sauce  over 
them,  and  serve  hot.  Stale  loaf  cake  is  very  nice  treated 
in  this  way. 


CAKE. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

Cake  will  not  rise  if  the  oven  is  too  slow ;  but,  on  the 
other  hand,  if  the  oven  be  too  hot,  the  cake  burns  on  the 
outside.  A  large  fruit-cake  needs  a  very  slow,  steady  fire. 
Small  cakes  baked  in  tins  or  pans  do  not  need  so  hot  a 
fire  as  large  cakes.  Where  a  great  deal  of  molasses  or  su- 
gar is  used,  a  more  moderate  fire  than  for  pound  or  sponge 
cake  is  necessary.  A  good  way  to  test  the  oven  is  to  drop 
a  little  flour  on  the  bottom  of  it.  If  it  browns,  the  oven 
will  be  hot  enough. 

Large  cakes  should  be  baked  in  earthen  pans;  metal 
pans  heat  too  quickly,  and  are  apt  to  burn  the  cake.  It 
is  well  always  to  have  a  paper  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
While  baking,  if  it  is  doing  too  fast  on  the  top,  spread  a 
paper  over  it. 

Raisins  must  always  be  stoned,  and  currants  well  washed 
and  picked.  Currants  require  many  waters,  and,  in  rins- 
ing, a  stream  should  run  upon  them  through  a  colander. 
When  washed,  place  a  towel  on  a  waiter,  and  spread  the 
currants  on  it,  rubbing  them  to  and  fro ;  remove  them  to 
another  towel  and  rub  again ;  then  put  them  in  a  dish, 
and  pick  them  over  carefully. 

In  using  baking-powders,  mix  them  with  the  flour. 
These  powders  should  be  made  use  of  with  discretion,  as 
they  are  apt  to  impart  an  alkaline  flavor. 

Flour  should  be  dry,  and  sifted  through  a  hair  sieve. 

The  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  should  be  beaten  sepa- 
rately, and  the  whites  to  the  stiffest  froth.  Stale  and  fresh 
eggs  should  never  be  used  in  the  same  cake. 

13* 


298  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Good  butter  should  always  be  used  for  cake. 

It  is  best  not  to  move  cake  after  it  is  once  in  the  oven. 

Also,  be  careful  not  to  let  in  a  stream  of  cold  air  when 
you  open  the  oven  door. 

In  testing  a  cake  to  see  if  it  is  baked  enough,  run  a 
broom  splint  or  skewer  through  it.  If  it  is  not  done 
enough,  some  of  the  dough  will  adhere  to  it ;  if  done,  it 
will  come  out  clean. 

Cakes  that  are  fried  must  be  plunged  into  deep  vessels 
of  boiling  lard.  Try  the  lard  first  with  a  small  piece  of 
dough.  Drop  the  cakes  in ;  as  they  brown  on  the  under 
side,  turn  them  over  with  a  skimmer.  Let  them  be  laid 
on  paper  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  when  taken  from  the  hot 
lard,  that  the  grease  may  be  absorbed. 


Dream  Cake. — Three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter; 
two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  sifted;  half  a  cupful  of  milk;  two 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  ;  one  and  a  half  teaspoon fuls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  stiff;  one  teaspoonful  of  al- 
mond extract. 

Mix  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour ;  rub 
the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again ;  add 
the  milk  and  flour  alternately,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat 
well ;  lastly,  add  the  beaten  whites  and  the  almond  ;  bake 
in  three  shallow  pans. 

Make  a  frosting  as  follows :  The  whites  of  three  eggs ; 
three  cupfuls  of  confectioner's  sugar,  sifted. 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  large  bowl,  sprinkle  with  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  beat  with  a  perforated  spoon,  and  add 
three  teaspoonf  uls  of  sugar  every  five  minutes ;  then  di- 
vide into  three  parts ;  leave  one  white,  and  flavor  it  with 
almond  or  vanilla;  color  another  pink,  and  flavor  it  with 
rose;  color  another  yellow,  and  flavor  it  with  orange  or 
lemon  ;  then  put  a  layer  of  icing  at  least  an  inch  thick  on 
each  cake ;  put  them  together,  ice  all  over  again  lightly 
with  white  icing,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut. 


CAKE.  299 

To  color  the  pink  icing  use  cochineal,  adding  it  slowly 
till  of  the  desired  shade.  To  color  orange,  grate  the  thin 
rind  of  an  orange,  and  soak  it  half  an  hour  in  three  or 
four  teaspoonf uls  of  orange  juice ;  strain  and  use. 

Almond  Loaf  Cake. — One  pound  of  powdered  sugar ; 
one  pound  of  flour;  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter; 
eight  eggs;  one  coffeecupful  of  almonds,  blanched,  pound- 
ed to  a  paste  with  rosewater  and  half  a  teaspoon ful  of  es- 
sence of  bitter  almonds. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  stir  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream;  add  to  this  the  yolks;  beat  light  and 
smooth  before  putting  in  the  flour;  stir  in  the  almond- 
paste  alternately  with  the  whites;  put  in  half  a  coffee- 
spoonful  of  brandy,  last  of  all;  bake  in  a  round  pan;  ice 
thickly  with  California  boiled  icing,  flavored  strongly  with 
rosewater  and  colored  pink  with  cochineal.  If  properly 
made,  baked,  and  iced,  this  is  a  delicious  cake. 

Pistachio-nut  Cake. — Make  and  bake  a  White  Moun- 
tain jelly  cake ;  then,  for  the  filling,  use  pistachio  nuts, 
prepared  and  ground  fine  as  for  pistachio  cream,  and 
beaten  up  with  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  as  usual ;  color  the 
filling  a  delicate  green  with  essence  of  spinach ;  when  the 
cake  is  properly  arranged  and  filled,  ice  it  completely  with 
icing  colored  green  in  the  same  way.  This  is  an  excellent 
cake. 

Caramel  Cake.  —  Three  cupfnls  of  sugar,  sifted;  one 
cupful  and  a  half  of  butter;  one  cupful  of  milk;  four  and 
a  half  cupf uls  of  flour ;  five  eggs,  well  beaten ;  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  two  small  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar; mix  and  bake  as  jelly  cake.  For  the  filling,  take 
three  cupf  uls  of  burned  sugar;  half  a  cupful  of  milk;  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  butter ;  one  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour; 
two  tablespoon f uls  of  cold  water. 

Boil  this  mixture  live  minutes,  then  add  three  table- 


300  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

spoonfuls  of  sweet  almonds,  roasted  and  ground  to  pow- 
der; boil  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  rich  custard;  add 
a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  and  remove  from  the  fire;  when 
cold,  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake;  ice  with  almond 
icing. 

Lemon  Cake. — One  heaping  cupful  of  butter;  two  scant 
cupfuls  of  sugar ;  ten  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately;  one  small  cupful  of  milk;  the  juice  and  rind 
(grated)  of  a  large  lemon ;  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
Hour  to  make  a  tolerably  thin  batter. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  ice  with  lemon  icing. 

Almond  Cake. — One  pound  of  almonds,  blanched,  beat- 
en to  a  fine  paste  in  a  mortar,  and  moistened  with  orange- 
flower  water ;  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  well  beaten ;  whites 
of  six  eggs  well  beaten  ;  two  bitter  almonds  pounded  to  a 
fine  paste ;  rind  of  two  large  lemons,  grated  fine  ;  double- 
refined  sugar  to  taste,  beaten  into  the  eggs. 

Bake  in  a  tin  pan  well  floured. 

Hickory-nut  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  sifted ; 
half  a  teacupful  of  butter;  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk; 
three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  well ; 
three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  one  cupful  of  hickory-nut 
kernels,  blanched ;  two  teaspoonfnls  of  cream  of  tartar 
mixed  with  the  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  milk. 

Bake  in  small  heart-shaped  tins. 

Thanksgiving  Cake. — Eight  pounds  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted  ;  four  pounds  of  sugar,  sifted  ;  three  pounds  of 
butter;  two  pounds  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  dredged; 
two  pounds  of  currants,  well  washed,  picked,  and  dredged  ; 
nutmeg,  mace,  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  all  powdered. 

Raise  this  cake  with  yeast ;  of  this  it  will  require  rather 
more  than  for  the  same  quantity  of  bread ;  mix  in  half 


CAKE.  301 

the  sugar  and  shortening  when  you  put  in  the  yeast ;  when 
well  raised,  add  the  remainder  with  the  spice ;  work  it  well, 
and  set  it  to  rise  again ;  when  it  has  risen  a  second  time 
add  the  fruit  and  a  teaspoonf id  of  dissolved  soda ;  put  it 
in  the  pans,  and  let  it  stand  only  a  few  moments  before 
baking, 

Boston  Cup  Cake. — Three  teacupfuls  of  sifted  sugar  and 
one  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of  butter,  beaten  together  to  a 
smooth,  white  cream  ;  three  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and 
yolks  separately,  and  added  to  the  above  ;  three  teacupfuls 
of  sifted  flour,  put  in  next ;  flavoring  to  taste. 

Dissolve  a  teacupf  ul  of  saleratus  in  a  teacupf ul  of  milk,  and 
strain  it  into  the  cake;  then  add  three  more  teacupf  ulsof  sift- 
ed flour ;  bake  the  cake  immediately,  either  in  cups  or  pans. 

Buckeye  Cake.- — Three  teacupfuls  of  white  sugar,  sifted ; 
one  teacupful  of  butter ;  four  teacupfuls  of  flour ;  six  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in 
the  flour;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda. 

Beat  very  light,  and  bake  in  tin  pans. 

Coffee  Cake. — One  cupful  of  seeded  and  chopped  rai- 
sins; one  cupful  of  sugar;  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  half  a 
cupful  of  cold  coffee  (strong) ;  half  a  cupful  of  molasses ; 
two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  two  eggs  well  beat- 
en ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  cloves  ;  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon. 

Maine  Cream  Cake.  —  Prepare  several  layers  of  jelly 
cake,  as  for  "  White  Mountain  Cake,"  but,  instead  of  spread- 
ing with  jelly,  use  the  following :  Half  a  pint  of  rich,  sweet 
milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch wet  with  cold  milk,  and  half  a  cupful  of  sifted  sugar. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch  ;  take 
out  a  little  and  mix  gradually  with  the  beaten  egg  and 
sugar ;  return  to  the  rest  of  the  custard  and  boil,  stirring 


302  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

constantly  until  quite  thick ;  flavor  to  taste ;  when  cold, 
spread  between  the  layers  of  cake ;  then  ice  thickly,  fla- 
voring the  icing  as  you  do  the  cream  filling. 

Bachelor's  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  sifted ;  six  ounces 
of  butter ;  six  ounces  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  Sultana 
raisins,  seeded  and.  chopped;  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
picked,  washed,  and  dredged ;  two  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  one  large  breakfast  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

Sift  the  soda  into  the  dry  flour ;  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar ;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  milk,  then  the  spice, 
lastly  the  flour  and  fruit ;  bake  in  round  tins. 

Lightning  Express  Cake. — One  cupful  of  flour,  sifted ; 
one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar ;  four  eggs  well  beaten ; 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar ;  flavoring  to  taste. 

Butter  the  pan  well,  and,  if  the  oven  is  in  good  trim, 
this  cake  will  bake  in  fifteen  minutes. 

Dinah's  Cup  Cake. — One  cupful  of  butter ;  two  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  sifted  ;  three  scant  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted ;  four 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  to  the  very  ut- 
most ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  thirds  of 
a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  or  half  a  cupful  of  sour  cream; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  with  the  flour. 

The  cream  of  tartar  is  not  to  be  used  if  the  sour  cream 
is  used. 

Dinah's  Cream  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  sifted ;  half 
a  pound  of  butter ;  one  pound  of  flour,  sifted ;  five  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost;  seven 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick,  sweet  cream  ;  five  drops  of  essence 
of  bitter  almond ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  added  the 
last  thing. 


CAKE.  303 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  put  between  the  layers  the 
following  filling :  One  cupful  of  sugar  (loaf),  one  cupful 
of  cold  water,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  juice,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  cold  water. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind ;  allow  it 
to  come  to  a  boil,  and  add  the  corn-starch,  stirring  it  in  a 
little  at  a  time;  allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  take  it  from  the 
fire,  and  set  away  to  cool.  It  is  a  delicious  filling  for  Di- 
nah's cream  cake. 

Small,  Rich  Plum  Cake. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour;  ten  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  pounded  mace ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dredged  ;  half  a 
pound  of  mixed  candied  peels,  snipped  fine ;  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy. 

Mix  as  usual,  adding  the  fruit  and  brandy  last;  bake 
two  hours. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  cupful  of  sifted  sugar ;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk  ;  one  egg  ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  butter ; 
one  heaped  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  soda ;  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  batter  as  thick 
as  for  griddle  cakes. 

Bake  it  in  four  cakes  on  jelly-cake  tins.  For  filling 
take  one  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  cupful  of  sifted 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  two  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  all  together,  cook  for  five  minutes,  and  put  between 
the  layers  of  cake ;  ice  with  the  quick  icing,  into  which 
you  have  beaten  a  very  little  grated  cocoanut ;  flavor  the 
icing  with  lemon  juice. 

Loaf  Cocoanut  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound 


304  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  butter ;  six  eggs  well  beaten ;  half  a  pound  of  flour ; 
one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  stirred  lightly  in  the  last 
thing. 

Mix  smoothly,  beat  hard,  and  bake  immediately. 

White  Cocoanut  Cake. — One  cupful  of  butter;  two  cup- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  three  cupfuls  of  flour ;  four  eggs, 
whites  only,  whipped  to  the  utmost ;  one  cupful  of  milk ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  sifted  into  the  flour ;  half  of  a  small  cocoanut  grat- 
ed fine,  stirred  in  last  of  all ;  a  pinch  of  soda. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  tins. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  sifted;  four  cup- 
fuls of  flour,  sifted;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  four 
eggs  well  beaten ;  one  cupful  of  rich  milk ;  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cream  of  tartar;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  This  quantity  will  make  two 
cakes  in  three  layers.  For  filling  take  half  a  cupful  of 
grated  chocolate,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  powdered  sugar  to 
taste,  and  milk  enough  to  make  it  moist.  Mix  all  together, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  and  beat  it  slowly  until  quite  smooth ; 
ice  with  chocolate  icing. 

Christmas  Cake. — This  cake  is  very  dark  and  delicious. 
Dry  some  fine  white  flour,  then  brown  it  slowly,  stirring 
all  the  time  in  a  shallow  pan  on  top  of  the  stove ;  let  it 
cool,  then  sift  it  for  use.  It  should  be  of  an  even  tint — 
fawn-colored.  Take  of  this  flour  one  and  a  half  pounds, 
and  mix  with  it  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  pulverized 
charcoal,  and  sift  it  twice;  take,  also,  six  pounds  of  stoned 
raisins,  five  pounds  of  washed,  picked,  and  dried  currants, 
six  bitter  almonds  pounded  in  a  mortar,  two  pounds  of 
blanched  and  chopped  sweet  almonds,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  sifted,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
butter,  two  pounds  of  citron,  eight  ounces  each  of  can- 


CAKE.  305 

died. orange  and  lemon  peel,  two  ounces  of  powdered  cin- 
namon, one  large  nutmeg,  grated,  half  an  ounce  of  pow- 
dered cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  mace,  two  gills 
of  brandy,  one  pint  of  black  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  the  juice 
and  peel  of  two  oranges,  the  juice  and  peel  of  two  lem- 
ons, nineteen  eggs,  and  four  ounces  of  the  best  chocolate, 
grated ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  also  the  spice,  brandy,  salt,  juice,  and  grated 
lemon  and  orange  peel ;  mix  the  chocolate  with  the  flour, 
and  stir  it  in ;  of  this,  however,  reserve  one  gill ;  add  to 
the  batter  now  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must  previ- 
ously have  been  beaten  stiff;  when  these  have  been  well 
beaten  in,  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water; 
lastly,  add  the  fruit  and  almonds,  dredged  thoroughly,  with 
the  gill  of  flour ;  mix  all  smoothly  and  thoroughly,  and 
then  beat  long  and  hard ;  when  beaten  smooth  and  light, 
put  into  a  large  pan  well  papered  and  buttered,  and  bake 
for  four  or  five  hours  at  least.  If  possible,  send  it  to  a 
baker. 

Fruit  Cake,  Plain. — One  pound  of  powdered  sugar; 
one  pound  of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  one  pound  of 
butter;  seven  eggs;  half  a  pound  of  currants,  washed, 
picked,  cleaned,  and  dredged  ;  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  seed- 
ed, chopped,  and  dredged;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron, 
cut  into  tbe  thinnest  possible  slips;  one  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  one  glassful  of 
brandy ;  cream,  butter,  and  sugar. 

Add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  spice  and  the  whipped 
whites  alternately  with  the  flour,  the  fruit  and  brandy 
last. 

Eclairs  of  Chocolate,  Cream,  etc. — Have  ready  a  set  of 
small  eclair  tins,  five  inches  long  and  two  wide,  round  at 
the  bottom,  and  connected  by  strips  of  tin ;  butter  these 
tins  well,  and  then  proceed  to  make  the  eclairs  as  follows: 


306  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar,  half  the 
weight  in  flour,  sifted,  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  well  into  the 
flour.  Beat  up  the  batter  well,  put  a  spoonful  into  each 
tin,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven;  when  nearly  cold  cover 
the  rounded  side  with  a  caramel  icing  made  as  follows: 
Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour;  boil  twenty-five  minutes,  stir  in  half  a  pound  of 
grated  chocolate,  wxet  in  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  boil 
until  it  hardens  on  the  spoon  :  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla. 
For  cream  eclairs  proceed  as  above,  but  lay  two  eclairs  to- 
gether, and  fill  the  hollow  between  the  two  with  cream- 
cake  filling. 

Plain  Loaf  Cake.— Three  cupfuls  of  light  dough,  taken 
when  the  bread  is  ready  to  be  moulded ;  one  large  cupful 
of  sifted  sugar;  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  two  eggs  well 
beaten  ;  one  cupful  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded,  chopped,  and 
dredged;  one  small  nutmeg,  grated ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  allspice;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk. 

Warm  the  butter  at  the  fire,  and  mix  thoroughly  and 
smoothly  with  the  dough ;  then  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together  and  add  them  to  the  dough,  then  the  soda,  spice, 
and  fruit ;  beat  all  well  together,  then  pour  it  into  deep 
tins,  buttered,  and  let  stand  until  it  becomes  quite  light  be- 
fore baking. 

Queen's  Cakes. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  loaf  sugar, 
pounded  and  sifted;  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk;  three  eggs  beaten  light,  whites  and 
yolks  separately ;  one  teaspoonful  of  sherry  or  Madeira 
wine;  two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted;  one  pinch 
of  saleratus. 

Mix  as  usual,  and  bake  in  small,  round  tins;  ice 
thickly. 


CAKE.  307 

Dinah?  s  Spice  Cake. — One  pound  of  sifted  flour ;  one 
pound  of  sifted  sugar;  half  a  pound  of  butter;  one  tea- 
cupful  of  cream  (or  sour  milk) ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  soda ; 
one  teaspoonfui  of  cloves;  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg; 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  one  teaspoonful  of  grated 
lemon  peel ;  one  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped. 

Mix  as  usual,  putting  in  the  raisins  last. 

Dinah? 8  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  sifted;  one 
pound  of  butter ;  one  pound  of  sugar,  sifted  ;  two  pounds 
of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dredged  ;  three  pounds  of 
Sultana  raisins,  seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged;  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peel,  cut  fine  ;  twelve 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  two  nutmegs, 
grated ;  one  tablespoonful  of  pounded  cloves,  mace,  and 
cinnamon;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  one  small  teacupful 
of  molasses ;  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  half  a  pint  of  brandy. 

Mix  as  usual,  adding  the  lemon  juice,  fruit,  and  brandy 
last. 

Continental  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter;  one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  sifted ;  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  stoned  raisins;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants, 
well  washed  and  picked ;  half  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in 
small  pieces;  eight  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separate- 
ly to  the  utmost;  one  teacupful  of  cream;  one  wineglass- 
ful  of  brandy;  one  wineglassful  of  wine;  one  nutmeg, 
grated  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  powdered  cloves;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered 
cinnamon;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
yeast  powder  mixed  wTith  the  flour. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  cream,  then  beat  in  a  quarter  of  the  flour,  add  the 
beaten  whites  very  gradually,  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  a 
little  at  a  time ;  beat  smooth ;  then  add  the  wine,  brandy, 


308  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

and  spice,  then  the  fruit  gradually ;  then  beat  all  well  to- 
gether, put  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  with  paper  round 
the  pan  and  on  top  in  a  steady,  quick,  but  not  too  hot  oven. 
It  will  require  about  an  hour. 

Republican  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  sifted ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  brown  or  white,  sifted  ;  half 
a  pound  of  butter ;  six  eggs ;  one  teacupful  of  cream  ;  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  saleratus ;  flavoring  to  taste. 

Beat  together  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  cup- 
ful of  cream,  three  eggs,  one.  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Beat  very  light,  and  bake  slowly. 

Dark  Loaf  Cake  (Old  Humphrey).  —  Two  and  a 
quarter  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  one  cupful  of  brown 
sugar ;  half  a  cupful  of  butter ;  half  a  cupful  of  milk ; 
two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  stiifest 
possible  froth  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves ;  half 
a  nutmeg,  grated  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  one 
cupful  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  ;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  molasses ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar; 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  with  them  the  yolks 
beaten  light,  then  add  the  milk  and  beat  very  hard  before 
putting  in  the  flour,  into  which  the  cream  of  tartar  and 
soda  should  previously  have  been  sifted ;  beat  again,  and 
add  the  spice  and  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  the  molasses, 
and  lastly  the  raisins ;  bake  in  buttered  tins,  and  test,  as 
usual,  with  a  straw.  This  is  an  old-fashioned  and  capital 
cake. 

Lee  Cake. — Ten  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately;  one  pound  of  sugar;  half  a  pound  of  flour;  two 
lemons. 


CAKE.  309 

To  all  the  yolks,  and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs,  add  the 
sugar,  the  rind  of  two  lemons  (grated),  and  the  juice  of 
one ;  bake  as  for  jelly  cake.  To  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  powdered  sugar ;  beat 
stiff  as  for  icing,  take  out  enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the 
cake,  and  set  aside ;  add  to  the  rest  the  juice,  pulp  (freed 
from  skin  and  strings),  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  large 
orange ;  beat  smooth,  and  when  the  cake  is  nearly  cold, 
spread  this  between  the  layers ;  beat  into  the  icing  re- 
served for  the  top  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Lincoln  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter ;  one  pound  of 
sugar;  one  pound  of  flour;  six  eggs  well  beaten,  whites 
and  yolks  separately  ;  two  cupf  uls  of  sour  cream ;  one 
grated  nutmeg;  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  rose  water;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  stirred  into  the  milk  just  be- 
fore adding  it  to  the  cake. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  whipped  yolks, 
then  the  cream  and  spice,  next  the  flour,  then  the  rose 
water,  and  a  double  handful  of  citron  cut  into  slips  and 
dredged  ;  finally  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  stir  all 
well,  and  bake  in  a  card-shaped  buttered  tin. 

Dover  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour  ;  one  pound  of  white 
sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar  to  a 
very  light  cream ;  six  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks 
separately ;  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  vinegar;  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
cinnamon  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  rose  water. 

Mix  all  well  together,  then  bake  in  round  tins,  well  but- 
tered.    Ice  with  almond  icing. 

Pound  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour  ;  one  pound  of  eggs ; 
one  pound  of  sugar;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter; 
one  wineglassf  ul  of  best  brandy  ;  one  nutmeg,  grated ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  mace. 


310  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cream  half  the  flour  with  the  butter,  and  add  brandy 
and  spice  ;  beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  sugar,  then 
the  beaten  whites,  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  alternately ; 
when  this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  put  all  together,  and  heat 
steadily  for  half  an  hour ;  flavor  the  icing  of  this  cake 
with  rose  water. 

Jelly  Cake. — To  make  jelly  cake,  it  is  necessary  to  have 
the  round,  flat  tins  that  are  made  for  this  purpose.  Then 
make  a  batter  exactly  like  that  for  White  Mountain  cake, 
and  bake  in  the  buttered  tins ;  each  layer  should  not  be 
more  than  half  an  inch  thick ;  when  baked,  lay  them  to 
cool  on  a  marble  slab  or  flat  table,  so  that  they  may  not 
warp  ;  when  cold,  spread  on  the  lower  one  a  thick  layer  of 
some  acid  jelly,  then  place  a  layer  of  cake  on  the  top  of 
this,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  you  have  piled  up  all ; 
four  layers  are  enough  for  a  cake ;  ice  the  top  thickly. 

Vermont  Orange  Cake. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  stirred  to  a  cream;  half  a 
cupful  of  milk  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  stirred 
into  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  fairly  stiff  batter ;  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  and  whites  of  two  ;  grated  rind  of  an  orange. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and,  when  done,  spread  between 
each  layer  a  mixture  made  of  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of 
one  egg,  the  juice  of  a  large  orange,  and  enough  powdered 
sugar  to  thicken  as  for  icing. 

Florida  Orange  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar;  two 
cupfuls  of  flour;  half  a  cupful  of  water;  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon  ;  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  four  ;  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

When  the  batter  is  light,  bake  it  in  jelly-cake  tins,  then 
beat  the  reserved  white  to  the  stiffest  possible  froth  with 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  finely  powdered,  and  the  grated 
rind,  juice,  and  pulp  of  a  large  orange.  Proceed  as 
above. 


CAKE.  311 

Silver  .Cake. — One  and  a  half  cupf  uls  of  sugar  (teacups)  ; 
half  a  cupful  of  milk  ;  half  a  cupful  of  butter ;  two  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  sifted ;  bitter-almond  flavoring ;  whites  of 
four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  milk  and  flavor- 
ing, then  the  flour,  lastly  the  eggs,  stirring  continually ; 
beat  hard  and  long,  and  bake  in  brick-shaped  tins. 

Gold  Cake. — Should  be  made  on  the  same  day  with  silver 
cake.  Two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  sifted  (teacups);  one 
cupful  of  butter;  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  yolks  of 
seven  eggs,  beaten  to  the  utmost ;  white  of  one  egg,  beaten 
to  the  utmost ;  half  a  cupful  of  milk  ;  piece  of  one  small 
lemon  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

•  Mix  and  bake  as  usual.    Both  silver  and  gold  cake  should 
be  iced  thickly. 

Marole  Cake.  —  Light:  One  cupful  of  white  sugar; 
half  a  cupful  of  butter ;  half  a  cupful  of  milk ;  two  cup- 
fuls of  flour ;  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Dark :  Half  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar  ;  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  butter  ;  half  a  cupful  of  molasses  ;  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  milk  ;  two  cupfuls  of  flour ;  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  half 
a  nutmeg,  grated  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  ammonia ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cream  of  tartar. 

Butter  your  mould,  and  put  in  the  dark  and  light  bat- 
ters in  alternate  layers. 

Madison *s  Whim  Cake.  —  One  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sugar ;  one  and  three  quarter  pounds  of  finest  white  flour, 
sifted  ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  six  eggs, 
well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately  ;  one  pound  of 
Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  one  pound  of  cur- 
rants, well  washed,  picked,  and  dredged  ;  one  pint  of  rich 
milk;  twelve  cloves  ground  to  powder;  half  a  nutmeg, 


312  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

grated  ;  one  coffeespoonf  ul  each  of  wine,  brandy,  and  rose 
water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  spice  and  whipped  whites  alternately  with  the  flour, 
and  the  milk,  the  fruit,  and  flavoring  last ;  beat  well  until 
very  smooth  and  light ;  bake  in  a  large  pan. 

Pound  Cake  (Mrs.  Washington's).— Forty  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  four  pounds 
of  butter;  four  pounds  of  fine  white  sugar,  sifted;  five 
pounds  of  fine  white  flour,  sifted ;  five  pounds  of  raisins, 
currants,  and  citron,  stoned,  cleaned,  and  cut;  half  an 
ounce  of  grated  nutmeg ;  one  pint  of  white  wine ;  one 
wineglassful  of  French  brandy. 

Beat  the  whites  to  the  stiffest  possible  froth ;  then  work 
four  pounds  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  when  smooth  put  the 
whites  to  it,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  then  the  sugar  in  the 
same  manner,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  the  flour,  fruit,  and 
flavoring;  bake  two  hours. 

Molasses  Pound  Cake. — One  cupful  of  molasses ;  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  sifted ;  one  cupful  of  butter ;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk ;  one  cupful  of  stoned  raisins ;  spices  to 
taste ;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Bake  it  in  a  deep  pan. 

Kansas  Cocoanut  Pound  Cake. — Bake  the  cakes  in  tins 
as  for  jelly  cake,  spread  each  one  thickly  with  soft  icing, 
strew  them  with  grated  cocoanut,  and  place  the  cakes  in 
layers,  one  above  another,  four  in  all. 

Election  Cake. — Two  cupfuls  of  the  batter  of  dough 
raised  with  yeast ;  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  one  cupful  of  rai- 
sins, stoned;  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  one  egg;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Mix  all  well  together,  knead,  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 


CAKE.  313 

Hocus-pocus  Pound  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter;  one 
pound  of  sugar,  sifted  ;  one  pound  of  flour,  sifted ;  twelve 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  one  teaspoonf ul 
of  baking-powder ;  one  nutmeg,  grated ;  one  wineglassful 
of  rose  water ;  one  wineglassful  of  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  brandy,  nutmeg, 
and  rose  water;  beat  in  the  yolks  carefully;  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  alternately  with  one  pound  of  sifted  flour ; 
lastly,  sprinkle  over,  and  beat  well  into  the  batter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder;  bake  in  cake  pans. 

Ginger  Pound  Cake. — One  teacupful  of  butter;  one 
teacupful  of  sugar,  sifted;  two  teacupfuls  of  molasses; 
one  teacupful  of  cream  with  a  little  soda  dissolved  in  it ; 
flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  four  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
three  tablespoonfnls  of  ginger,  one  of  cinnamon,  and  one 
of  cloves,  all  powdered. 

Indian  Meal  Pound  Cake. — One  pint  of  fine  yellow 
Indian  meal,  sifted ;  half  a  pint  of  wheat  flour,  sifted ; 
half  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  sifted ;  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter;  eight  eggs, well  beaten, whites  and  yolks  separate- 
ly ;  one  glassful  of  white  wine ;  one  wineglassful  of  bran- 
dy;  one  nutmeg,  grated  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon* 
powdered. 

Mix  the  flour  and  meal  well  together ;  then  beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  cream ;  add  the  spice,  brandy,  and 
wine ;  then  stir  in  the  eggs  and  meal  alternately ;  beat 
hard  and  long  together,  put  into  a  buttered  tin  pan,  and 
bake  about  two  hours ;  eat  fresh. 

Savarin  Cake.  —  Two  ounces  of  beer  yeast  mixed  in 
a  little  warm  milk;  six  ounces  of  flour  stirred  into  the 
yeast  and  milk ;  twelve  ounces  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream; 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  into  the  butter  at  intervals 
of  five  minutes,  beating  all  the  time;  four  entire  eggs 
beaten  in  the  same  way;  twelve  ounces  of  sifted  flour 

U 


314  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

beaten  in  next,  then  the  yeast  and  flour  mixed ;  three 
ounces  of  lemon  juice ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  cream ;  three 
teaspoonf  uls  of  milk ;  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar. 

Grease  two  pans,  three  inches  deep,  with  butter,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  sugar ;  put  in  the  batter,  and  let  it  rise 
for  about  two  hours ;  when  light  put  the  pans  into  a  quick 
oven  and  bake;  when  the  cakes  are  done  remove  them 
from  the  pans ;  stir  together,  over  the  fire,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Maraschino,  and  one  of  Marsalla  wine,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar ;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
wash  the  cakes  well  over  with  the  syrup. 

Perfection  Sponge  Cake. — Fourteen  eggs,  the  yolks  of 
all  and  the  whites  of  four;  one  pound  of  sifted  flour;  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  white  sugar,  sifted ;  two  small,  juicy, 
thin-skinned  lemons. 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites,  putting  the  yolks  into 
the  vessel  in  which  the  cake  is  to  be  beaten;  beat  the  eggs 
to  the  utmost,  first  separately,  then  together ;  meanwhile 
add  to  the  sugar  in  the  saucepan  three  wineglassfuls  of 
water,  let  it  dissolve  before  placing  it  on  a  hot  fire,  and 
stir  it  to  keep  it  from  burning ;  when  boiling  hot,  pour  it 
upon  the  beaten  eggs,  beating  hard  all  the  time,  and  pour- 
ing slowly  until  it  is  entirely  cold ;  add  the  strained  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons ;  beat  a  little  while  longer 
to  make  the  batter  very  light;  stir  in  slowly  the  sifted 
flour,  but  do  not  heat  it ;  then  put  into  two  brick-shaped 
tins  well  buttered ;  bake  half  an  hour.  An  oven  hot 
enough  to  bake  bread  with  a  tender,  soft  crust  will  be  hot 
enough.  While  the  cake  is  baking,  put  the  four  extra 
whites  on  a  shallow  dish,  and  beat  in  gradually  one  pound 
of  pulverized  sugar ;  beat  very  light,  flavor  to  taste,  and, 
as  soon  as  you  take  the  cake  from  the  oven,  ice  it ;  do  so 
thoroughly  on  the  under  side  of  the  cake,  which  should  be 
turned  over  with  a  damp  knife ;  score  the  icing  into  lines 
with  a  damp  knife,  then  set  the  cake  away  to  cool. 


CAKE.  315 

Sponge  Cake  a  la  Virginie. — Ten  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately ;  weight  of  the  eggs  in  powdered  sugar ; 
half  their  weight  in  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted  ;  the  jnice 
of  one  lemon ;  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Break  the  yolks  into  a  shallow  basin,  and  the  whites 
into  a  wide,  shallow  dish ;  beat  the  yolks  first,  and  very 
light;  when  the  yolks  are  beaten  to  the  utmost,  beat  in 
half  the  sugar ;  then  beat  the  whites  to  the  stiffest  possible 
froth,  and  beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  sugar;  then  beat 
all  together  hard  and  long,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated 
peel,  and,  lastly,  beat  in  the  sifted  flour  in  the  lightest  pos- 
sible way,  as  the  less  the  cake  is  beaten  after  the  flour  is 
added,  the  lighter  it  will  be ;  put  into  buttered  pans,  and 
just  before  putting  into  the  oven  sift  a  little  fine  sugar 
over  the  top ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  straw  comes 
out  of  the  cake  smooth  and  clean. 

Rhode  Island  Cake. — One  cupful  of  sifted  sugar ;  one 
cupful  of  milk ;  half  a  cupful  of  butter ;  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar  sifted  into  one  quart  of  flour;  another 
half  a  cupful  of  milk  with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it;  put  the  butter  in  last. 

Beat  very  hard,  and  bake  quickly. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — Half  a  cupful  of  butter;  two 
cnpfuls  of  sugar;  three  and  a  quarter  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour;  one  cupful  of  milk;  five  eggs  well  beaten  with  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  For  the  filling  take  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  (stiff),  with  one  pound  of  fine  sug- 
ar ;  flavor  with  essence  of  bitter  almond  ;  spread  each  lay- 
er of  the  cake  thickly,  place  one  on  another,  then  ice  all 


Risen  Crullers. — Two  quarts  of  flour ;  six  teaspoonfuls 


316  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  yeast  powder ;  two  teacupf uls  of  sugar ;  three  eggs ; 
six  ounces  of  butter;  one  pint  of  rich  milk;  a  little 
salt. 

Warm  the  butter  in  the  milk ;  do  not  beat  the  eggs  be- 
fore mixing  them  with  the  other  ingredients ;  knead  the 
dough  well,  roll  it  out  in  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
with  a  jagging-iron,  and  throw  the  cakes  into  boiling  lard  ; 
be  sure  that  the  lard  is  absolutely  boiling  before  throwing 
them  in  ;  fry  a  light  brown. 

Crullers  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). — One 
pound  of  butter;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  powdered  sug- 
ar; twelve  eggs,  well  beaten ;  mace  and  nutmeg  to  taste; 
flour  to  roll  out  stiff. 

Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  jag- 
ging-iron, and  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard;  test  the  heat 
by  dropping  in  one  ;  it  should  rise  instantly  to  the  surface. 
These  crullers  should  be  a  fine  yellow.  If  the  fat  should 
become  so  hot  that  the  crullers  brown  before  puffing  out 
to  their  full  dimensions,  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  for 
a  few  minutes.  It  is  best  to  cut  out  all  ths  crullers  before 
beginning  to  fry  them.  The  above  receipt  is  for  a  large 
quantity  of  crullers. 

Plainer  Crullers. — One  and  a  half  teacupf  uls  of  sugar ; 
half  a  teacupful  of  sour  cream  or  milk;  one  third  of  a  tea- 
cupful  of  butter;  one  egg  well  beaten;  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  flour  to  roll  out 
a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Marvels. — Half  a  pint  of  sugar ;  four  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
one  quart  of  flour ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Rub  well,  and  beat  to  a  cream  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  soda ; 
then  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour,  beating  and  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  take  a  separate  half-pint  of  flour  to  roll  the 
cakes  out  in ;  cut  in  lozenges,  and  cook  in  boiling  lard  like 
doughnuts. 


CAKE.  317 

Albany  OlicooJcs. —  One  pint  of  lukewarm  milk;  one 
teacupful  of  melted  lard ;  one  small  cupful  of  yeast ; 
enough  of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted,  to  make  a  thick 
batter ;  three  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  six  eggs,  whites 
only,  beaten  to  the  utmost ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  melted  lard  into  the  lukewarm  milk,  then  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  add  a  small  cupful  of 
yeast ;  beat  it  well,  and  set  it  to  rise ;  when  light,  work  in 
gradually  and  carefully  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  the  whipped 
whites  of  six  eggs,  and  the  salt ;  work  in  gradually  enough 
flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  let  it  rise  again, 
and  when  very  light  roil  it  out  in  a  sheet  an  inch  thick ; 
cut  into  rounds ;  put  into  the  centre  of  each  round  a  large 
Sultapa  raisin,  seeded,  and  mould  into  perfectly  round 
balls ;  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  before  boiling  them  ; 
have  plenty  of  lard  in  the  pot,  and  when  it  boils  drop  in 
the  cakes ;  when  they  are  a  light  brown,  take  them  out 
with  a  perforated  skimmer;  drain  on  soft  white  paper, 
and  roll,  while  warm,  in  fine  powdered  sugar.  These  are 
delicious  doughnuts. 

Risen  Doughnuts.  —  One  pound  of  butter ;  one  and 
three  quarter  pounds  of  sugar;  one  quart  of  sweet  milk; 
four  eggs;  one  large  cupful  of  yeast;  one  tablespoonful 
of  mace  or  nutmeg,  grated ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cinnamon  ; 
flour  to  make  all  as  stiff  as  bread  dough ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  milk,  yeast,  and 
three  pints  of  flour;  set  to  rise  overnight;  in  the  morn- 
ing beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  batter  with 
the  spice  and  the  rest  of  the  flour;  set  to  rise  three  hours, 
or  until  light;  roll  into  a  pretty  thick  sheet,  form  into 
round  balls,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard;  roll,  while  warm,  in 
powdered  sugar. 

Quick  Doughnuts. — One  cupful  of  butter;  two  cupfuls 
of  sugar;  four  eggs,  or  the  whites  only  of  six ;  one  cupful 


318  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  sour  cream;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water;  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon;  ilour  to  roll  out  in  pretty  soft 
dough. 

Cut  into  rounds,  form  into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Boston  Cream,  Cakes. — Half  a  pound  of  butter;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour;  eight  eggs;  one  pint  of  wa- 
ter, warm. 

Stir  the  butter  into  the  warm  water;  set  it  on  the  fire 
in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  it  to  a  boil,  stirring  it 
often ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour,  boil  one  minute, 
stirring  it  all  the  while;  take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a 
deep  dish,  and  let  it  cool;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and 
whip  into  this  cooled  paste,  first  the  yolks,  and  then  the 
whites ;  drop  in  great  spoonfuls  upon  buttered  paper,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  let  them  touch  or  run  into  each  other,  and 
bake  ten  minutes. 

Cream  for  Filling. — One  quart  of  rich,  sweet  milk ;  four 
tablespoonf  uls  of  corn-starch  ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar. 

Wet  the  corn-starch  with  enough  milk  to  work  it  into  a 
smooth  paste;  boil  the  rest  of  the  milk;  beat  two  eggs, 
add  the  sugar  and  corn-starch,  and  as  soon  as  the  milk 
boils  pour  in  the  mixture  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  smooth  and  thick;  drop  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
and  when  this  is  mixed  in  set  the  custard  aside  to  cool; 
then  add  the  flavoring;  split  open  the  puffs,  and  fill  with 
the  mixture. 

Almond  Cheese  Cakes.  —  Half  a  pound  of  almonds 
blanched,  and  pounded  in  a  mortar;  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten;  the 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Beat  all  together  until  it  becomes  light  and  frothing; 
fill  paste  shells  with  it,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


CAKE.  319 

Philadelphia  Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. — The  yolks  of  eight 
eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  ;  half  a  pound  of  butter,  well  creamed ;  the  juice 
of  three  lemons,  and  the  grated  peel  of  two. 

Mix  all  together,  fill  shells  of  puff  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Devonshire  Curd  Cheese  Calces. — Run  a  gallon  of  new 
milk  with  rennet  as  for  cheese;  drain  off  all  the  whey 
from  it ;  put  to  it  half  a  pound  of  butter  turned  to  cream  ; 
half  a  pound  of  raw  cream;  half  a  pound  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar;  eight  yolks  of  eggs;  salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste;  half 
a  wineglassful  of  brandy;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
currants,  well  washed  and  picked;  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  candied  orange  peel,  chopped  fine. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  open  shells  of  puff 
paste. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. — Two  ounces  of  butter;  two  eggs ; 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  sugar;  the  grated  rinds  and 
juice  of  two  lemons;  two  stale  Savoy  biscuits  (or  lady- 
fingers),  powdered. 

Beat  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  simmer  over 
the  fire  a  few  minutes;  bake  in  shells  of  puff  paste.  These 
are  old-fashioned  cheese  cakes,  celebrated  in  English 
novels. 

Yorkshire  Curd  Cheese  Cakes. — Procure  some  good  but- 
termilk and  keep  it  for  a  day  or  two ;  then  put  into  a  pan 
or  basin  two  quarts  of  fresh  milk ;  place  this  in  the  oven ; 
when  it  begins  to  simmer  take  it  out,  and  ladle  the  butter- 
milk into  it  by  spoonfuls,  giving  a  gentle  stir  each  time; 
when  the  curds  appear  in  the.  milk,  and  the  whey  becomes 
thin,  cease  adding  the  buttermilk ;  next  tie  the  curds  in  a 
strainer  or  piece  of  canvas,  iind  hang  them  up  for  a  few 
hours;  to  make  the  cheese  cakes,  add  a  cupful  of  sweet 
cream  to  the  curds,  a  cupful  of  cleaned  currants,  a  cupful 


320  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  loaf  sugar  pounded  fine,  an  ounce  of  mixed  peel  cut 
up,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  all  these,  add  a  couple  of 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  a  wine- 
glassful  of  rum,  brandy,  or  liqueur ;  put  in  puff-paste 
shells  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     {Very  good.) 

Cocoanut  Cones.  —  One  pound  of  powdered  sugar; 
half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut;  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs. 

Whip  the  eggs  and  sugar  as  for  icing  until  it  will  stand 
alone,  then  beat  in  the  cocoanut;  mould  the  mixture  into 
small  cones,  and  set  them  at  a  proper  distance  (not  touch- 
ing each  other),  on  buttered  paper,  in  a  baking-pan ;  bake 
in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Old-fashioned  CoQoanut  Calces.  —  One  cocoanut,  care- 
fully skinned  and  grated  ;  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut ;  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  powdered  sugar ;  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  well  beaten  ;  as  much  water  as  cocoanut  milk. 

Dissolve  one  pound  of  the  sugar  in  the  milk  and  water ; 
stew  until  it  becomes  a  "ropy"  syrup,  and  turn  out  into 
a  buttered  dish ;  have  ready  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  with 
the  remaining  half  pound  of  sugar  whipped  into  it;  mix 
this  with  the  grated  cocoanut,  and,  little  by  little,  beating 
in  all  the  while  the  boiled  syrup,  as  soon  as  it  cools  suffi- 
ciently not  to  scald  the  eggs,  drop  in  spoonfuls  upon  but- 
tered paper ;  if  the  batter  be  too  thin,  add  more  sugar ;  do 
not  let  them  brown  at  all. 

Sugar  Cookies. — One  pound  of  sugar,  sifted  ;  one  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter ;  three  drops  of  the  essence  of 
citron  ;  one  egg,  well  beaten  ;  flour  enough  to  enable  you 
to  roll  out  the  cookies. 

Cut  into  small  rounds  and  bake. 

Water  Cookies. — One  cupful  of  butter ;  two  cupf uls  of 
sifted  sugar;  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  warm  water;  four 


CAKE.  321 

cupf  uls  of  sifted  flour ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  ;  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Roll  out,  cut  into  rounds,  and  bake. 

Rose  Cookies. — Six  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately ;  one  cupful  of  butter ;  three  cupf  uls  of  sifted 
sugar ;  a  wineglassf  nl  of  rose  water. 

Make  into  round  cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Ginger  Crackers,  No.  1. — Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour ; 
one  pint  of  molasses;  one  pound  of  brown  sugar;  half  a 
pound  of  lard;  two  ounces  of  ground  ginger;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cloves. 

Knead  long  and  hard,  and  roll  out  very  thin ;  cut  into 
small  rounds,  and  bake  over  a  steady,  strong  fire. 

Ginger  Crackers.  No.  2.— Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour ; 
one  pint  of  molasses;  one  saucerful  of  brown  sugar;  one 
wineglassf ul  of  sherry  ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  ;  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
ground  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  ground. 

Knead  long  and  hard  and  roll  thin  ;  bake  as  above. 

Ginger-nuts. — One  quart  of  molasses;  three  pints  of 
flour,  sifted  ;  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  sifted ;  one  pound  of 
butter  ;  half  a  pound  of  coarse  brown  sugar;  one  ounce  of 
allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, and  two  ounces  of  ginger,  ground. 

Put  the  molasses  in  an  earthen  saucepan,  add  the  but- 
ter and  the  sugar,  and  set  on  the  fire  in  another  and  larger 
saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  until  the  butter 
and  sugar  are  dissolved;  in  the  meantime  mix  the  spices, 
all  pounded,  with  the  flour  and  meal;  afterwards  knead 
the  whole  together  and  cut  into  rounds  the  size  of  a  silver 
half-dollar;  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  more  if  necessary. 

Scotch  Cakes.— -One  pound  of  white  sugar,  sifted  ;  one 

14* 


322  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

pound  of  eggs;  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour, sifted  ;  half  a 
pound  of  meal,  ditto ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ; 
one  gill  of  brandy ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  fine. 

Mix  well  and  smoothly,  knead  hard,  and  roll  out  thin  ; 
bake  on  buttered  paper  in  a  shallow  tin. 

Lady  Cake. — One  pound  of  sifted  sugar ;  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour;  six  ounces  of  butter;  the 
whipped  whites  of  ten  eggs. 

Flavor  with  bitter  almond,  and  bake  in  small  square  tins ; 
ice  with  the  boiled  icing,  and  flavor  the  icing  with  rose 
water. 

Seed  Cakes. — Two  pounds  of  sifted  white  flour ;  one 
pound  of  sifted  white  powdered  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of 
caraway  seeds ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  lemon  juice. 

Melt  the  butter  and  sugar,  work  to  a  smooth  paste,  then 
add  the  lemon  juice,  then  the  sifted  flour,  little  by  little, 
then  the  caraway  seeds;  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  small  squares,  crimp  the  edges,  lay  on  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  to  a  pale  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Meg  DodcPs  Cakes  (Edinburgh). —  One  teacupful  of 
sweet  milk  ;  one  egg  beaten  light ;  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  enough  flour  to  roll  out 
the  cakes. 

Cut  into  lozenges,  lay  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Jennie  Dean's  Heart  Cakes. — One  teacupful  of  sifted 
sugar;  one  teacupful  of  butter;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  rich 
cream;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda;  one  nutmeg,  grated; 
one  egg,  beaten  light ;  enough  flour  to  roll  out  the  cakes. 

Cut  in  hearts,  and  bake. 

New-Year's  Cakes. — One  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar ; 
one  pound  of  butter ;  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  ;  three  and 


CAKE.  323 

a  quarter  pounds  of  flour ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  four  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  caraway  seeds,  sprinkled  through  the  flour. 

Rub  the  butter;  or,  better  still,  chop  up  in  the  flour 
and  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water ;  mix  all  well  with  the 
beaten  eggs,  cut  in  the  regular  New-year-cake  shape,  and 
bake  quickly. 

Stickeys. — One  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  fine  white  sugar, 
sifted  ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  one  egg,  well 
beaten  ;  one  wineglassfnl  of  rose  water ;  one  wineglassful 
of  peach  water  ;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

Mix  all  well  together, form  in  small  rounds,  and  bake  on 
buttered  tins. 

Hurry  Cakes. — One  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar;  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately  ; 
three  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted ;  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk  ;  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream ;  one  pinch  of 
salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  of  soda. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  first,  then  add  the 
rest,  alternating  the  milk  and  flour ;  bake  in  well-heated 
gem-pans ;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Macaroons. — Soak  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  in 
boiling  water  until  the  skin  will  come  off  easily,  then  wipe 
them  dry,  and  pound  them  fine  with  rose  water ;  beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  the  stiffest  froth,  stir  in  gradually 
half  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar,  and  then  add  the 
almonds ;  when  these  are  all  mixed  in,  drop  the  mixture 
in  small  heaps  on  buttered  baking-plates,  half  an  inch  apart, 
sift  sugar  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. 

Cocoanut  Drops. — One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  light-brown  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  on  the  fire  in  a  kettle,  with  about  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  in,  just  enough  to  prevent  it  from  burn- 


324  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ing;  stir  it  constantly,  and  when  the  sugar  is  melted  and 
forms  a  smooth  mass,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  the 
cocoanut,  and  mix  it  well  with  the  sugar,  and  then  stir 
thoroughly  through  the  whole  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  light,  to  bind  it  all  together ;  mould  the  cakes  with 
the  hand,  using  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  for  each 
one  ;  form  them  in  round  balls,  and  bake  on  buttered  tins. 

ShelTbark  Macaroons. — One  cupful  of  kernels,  blanched 
and  chopped  fine;  one  cupful  of  sugar;  one  egg,  well 
beaten  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Beat  well  together,  drop  in  little  heaps  the  size  of  a 
large  nutmeg,  on  buttered  papers  in  pans ;  bake  a  delicate 
brown. 

Passover  Prealaters. — Twelve  eggs,  well  beaten,  whites 
and  yolks  separately ;  weight  of  the  eggs  in  fine  sifted 
sugar;  half  the  weight  in  fine  sifted  flour;  grated  rind  of 
a  lemon,  and  all  the  juice. 

Mix  as  for  sponge  cake,  beat  very  light,  bake  in  small 
buttered  tins,  and  ice. 

Blueberry  Short  Cake.  —  One  cupful  of  sifted  sugar; 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  whites 
and  yolks  separately  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter; 
one  and  a  half  pints  of  sifted  flour;  two  heaped  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder, sifted  into  the  flour;  one  cupful  of 
blueberries  well  flavored. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Eat 
hot. 

Lafayette  Ginger  Balls. — Half  a  pound  of  butter;  half 
a  pound  of  sugar,  sifted ;  one  pint  of  molasses;  six  eggs, 
well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately  ;  one  coffecupful 
of  sour  cream  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  powdered  cloves 
and  cinnamon  ;  two  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger ;  one 
heaped  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;  rind 


CAKE.  325 

and  juice  of  an  orange  and  a  lemon ;  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  sifted  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slightly, 
and  beat  them  together;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the 
milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  flour,  and  whites,  well  whipped ; 
beat  well  before  baking.  Put  into  small,  round  tin  moulds 
(queen-cake  shape)  and  bake. 

Ginger  Wafer  Snaps. —  One  pound  of  butter;  three 
pounds  of  flour, sifted;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  sifted  ;  two  ounces  of  powdered  ginger ;  eight  dozen 
of  powdered  cloves ;  ten  dozen  of  powdered  allspice ;  half 
an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  powdered ;  one  quart  of  molasses. 

Mix  smoothly  and  well,  knead  it  in  small  quantities,  and 
then  knead  it  all  together.  If  the  dough  is  too  thin  to 
roll  out  properly,  add  enough  sifted  flour  to  enable  you  to 
do  so ;  roll  out  thin,  cut  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  on 
buttered  tins. 

Ginger  /Snaps,  Virginia. — One  cupful  of  butter  and 
one  cupful  of  lard  melted  together ;  one  cupful  of  brown 
sugar;  two  cupfuls  of  molasses;  half  a  cupful  of  milk; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of  sale- 
ratus,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Mix  with  the  melted  lard  and  butter,  the  sugar,  molasses, 
milk,  ginger,  and  saleratus ;  add  just  enougli  sifted  flour 
to  enable  you  to  roll  it  out  very  thin.  Cut  in  small  rounds, 
and  bake  in  buttered  tins,  in  a  slow  oven. 

Old  Humphrey's  Ginger  Snaps. — One  cupful  of  butter; 
two  cupfuls  of  molasses;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger; 
two  teaspoonf  uls  of  soda ;  enough  sifted  flour  to  roll  out. 

Roll  out  very  thin,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  claret  glass, 
lay  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Old  Humphrey's  Orange  Ginger  Snaps. — One  pint  of 
molasses;  one  pound  of  sugar;  three  quarters  of  a  pound 


326  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  butter;  one  ounce  of  ginger,  ground;  one  ounce  of 
candied  orange  peel  snipped  fine  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
enough  sifted  flour  to  make  stiff. 

Cut  into  small  rounds,  and  bake  as  above.  If  properly 
made  and  baked,  these  are  delicious  snaps, 

Mary  Anne's  Cookies. — One  cupful  of  butter;  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar;  one  cupful  of  sour  milk  or  cream;  one  nut- 
meg, grated  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus ;  enough  flour 
to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  cookies. 

Cut  into  rounds  and  bake. 

Almond  Wafers. — A  quarter,  of  a  pound  of  almonds, 
blanched,  and  pounded  to  a  paste  with  rose  water ;  half 
a  pound  of  sugar ;  whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten ;  two 
ounces  of  flour. 

Beat  to  a  thin  batter,  bake  in  wafer-irons,  and  roll  while 
warm. 

Wafers,  No.  1.  —  Nine  spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar; 
nine  spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour;  two  eggs  beaten  up  with 
milk. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  pancakes,  and  bake  in  wafer-irons. 
The  irons  should  be  often  greased  while  new,  afterwards 
one  greasing  will  suffice. 

Wafers,  No.  2.  —  Six  eggs;  one  pint  of  flour;  two 
ounces  of  melted  butter ;  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar ;  one  cupful  of  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  and  very  stiff ;  rub 
the  sugar  and  butter  together,  and  work  in  first  the  yolks, 
then  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  whites ;  bake  very  quickly 
in  well-buttered  wafer-irons,  and  roll  while  small  upon  an 
iron  wafer-stick. 

Mary  Anne's  Wafers. — One  cupful  of  butter ;  two  cup- 


CAKE.  327 

fuls  of  sugar ;  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water ;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  nutmeg ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves  ;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Work  in  gradually  enough  flour  to  roll  out  very  thin  / 
cut  in  rounds  with  a  tumbler,  and  bake  quickly. 

Schnee  Wandeln  (Fran  von  P.  zu  P.), — Four  ounces  of 
butter ;  five  ounces  of  sifted  sugar  ;  three  ounces  of  sifted 
flour  of  the  finest  quality ;  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to 
the  utmost. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream ;  then  add,  little  by 
little,  the  sifted  flour,  stirring  all  the  time;  then  the  beat- 
en whites,  still  stirring;  when  all  the  ingredients  are  well 
mixed  together,  beat  hard  and  long  until  the  whole'  mass 
is  as  light  as  snow;  have  ready  some  small  tin  forms, 
shaped  thus :  \_J  They  must  be  buttered  and  dusted  light- 
ly with  crystallized  sugar ;  fill  these  with  the  snow  batter, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  turn  them  out  of  the  forms  be- 
fore serving.  If  you  wish  to  fill  the  schnee  wandeln,  you 
should  half  fill  the  forms  with  the  batter;  then  put  in  a 
spoonful  of  some  tart  preserve,  and  fill  up  the  form  again 
with  the  batter.  This  is  a  famous  Bavarian  dainty,  always 
made  about  Christmas  time. 

Philadelphia  Jumbles. — One  pound  of  sugar;  half  a 
pound  of  butter;  eight  eggs,  beaten  light;  essence  of  bit- 
ter almond  or  rose  to  taste ;  enough  flour  to  enable  you  to 
roll  them  out. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  light  cream,  then  add  the 
well- whipped  eggs,  the  flavoring,  and  flour ;  mix  well  to- 
gether, roll  out  in  powdered  sugar,  roll  in  a  sheet  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  rings  with  a  jagging-iron, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  on  buttered  tins. 

Cream  Jumbles. — One  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful  of 
butter;  half  a  capful  of  sour  cream  ;  one  egg  well  beaten  ; 


328  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;    nutmeg 
to  taste. 

Mix  and  bake  as  above. 

Lemon  Jumbles. — One  egg  ;  one  teacupf  ul  of  sugar ; 
half  a  teacupf  ul  of  butter ;  three  teaspoonluls  of  milk  ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda ;  two  small  lemons,  the  juice  of  both,  and  grated  rind 
of  one. 

Mix  rather  stiff,  roll  out,  cut,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Almond  Jumbles. — One  pound  of  sugar;  half  a  pound 
of  flour;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  one  teacupful  of 
loppered  milk  ;  Hve  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  rose  water;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  almonds, 
blanched  and  chopped  very  fine;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks,  the 
milk,  flour,  rose  water,  almonds,  and,  lastly,  the  beaten 
whites  very  lightly  and  quickly ;  drop  in  rings  on  but- 
tered paper,  and  bake  at  once. 

JBoiled  Icing. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  finest 
sifted  white  sugar  ;  one  pint  of  water. 

Mix  and  boil  until  it  ropes;  have  ready  the  whites  of 
seven  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  pour  the  syrup  into  a 
bowl,  and  stir  until  milkwarm ;  then  add  the  eggs,  and  beat 
hard  for  an  hour. 

Quick  Icing. — For  the  white  of  every  egg  use  at  least 
one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar ;  break  the  whites 
into  a  broad,  shallow  dish  ;  throw  a  little  sugar  on  them, 
and  begin  beating  smoothly  and  steadily ;  proceed  in  this 
way  until  the  icing  is  formed  ;  pour  the  icing  by  the  spoon- 
ful on  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  let  it  settle  itself  if  possi- 
ble; if  not,  use  a  broad-bladed  knife  to  spread  it,  dipped 
in  cold  water ;  if  in  haste,  set  the  cake  in  the  oven  to  dry 
for  three  minutes. 


CAKE.  329 

Chocolate  Icing. — Quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate,  grat- 
ed;  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn-starch  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla  extract ;  powdered 
sugar  to  taste. 

Mix  smoothly,  boil  two  minutes  after  it  has  fairly  come 
to  a  boil,  flavor,  and  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar.  It 
must  be  very  sweet. 

Almond  Icing. — One  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  blanched, 
pounded  to  a  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  and  moistened 
with  rose  water ;  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  ;  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  whipped  stiff. 

Prepare  the  icing  as  usual ;  then  beat  in  the  almond 
paste ;  put  on  half  an  inch  thick,  and  when  dry  cover  with 
plain  icing. 

Sweet- Potato  Pone. — One  quart  of  grated  raw  sweet 
potato;  one  teacupful  of  powTdered  sugar;  one  teacupful 
of  butter;  one  teacupful  of  molasses;  two  teacupfuls  of 
warm  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  ginger. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  two 
or  three  inches  deep  ;  eat  hot. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  No.  1. — One  cupful  of  molasses;  one 
cupful  of  butter;  one  cupful  of  sugar  ;  one  cupful  of  sour 
cream;  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  ginger;  three  eggs, 
well  beaten ;  one  tablespoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water ;  ground  spice  to  taste  ;  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  together  to  a  cream,  and  then 
add  the  other  ingredients ;  beat  the  eggs  last,  whites  and 
yolks  together ;  bake  in  a  buttered  baking-pan  in  a  very 
slow  oven. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  No.  2. — One  cupful  of  butter ;  one  cup- 
ful of  molasses  ;  one  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful  of  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda  dissolved  in 


330  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

boiling  water ;  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger  ;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  cinnamon  ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten ;  enough  sifted 
flour  to  make  the  batter  as  thick  as  cup-cake  batter. 

Stir  the  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  and  spice  together  to  a 
light  cream,  and  set  them  on  the  range  until  slightly  warm  ; 
beat  the  eggs  light ;  add  the  milk  to  the  warm  mixture, 
then  the  eggs,  soda,  and,  lastly,  the  flour ;  beat  very  hard 
ten  minutes,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  loaf. 

Sponge  Gingerbread. — Five  cupf uls  of  sifted  flour ;  one 
cupful  of  molasses;  one  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful  of 
sour  cream ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  ginger;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered cinnamon. 

Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  and  spice  together,  warm 
them  slightly,  and  beat  until  they  are  very  light;  add  the 
sour  milk,  then  the  saleratus  and  the  flour  gradually ;  then 
half  a  pound  of  the  finest  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped;  beat  very  hard  five  minutes,  and  bake  in  a 
broad,  shallow  pan  well  buttered. 

Fruit  Gingerbread. — Two  pounds  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar ;  one  pound  of  currants,  picked, 
washed,  and  dredged ;  one  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  seed- 
ed, chopped,  and  dredged ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied 
orange  peel,  shredded  very  fine,  and  dredged ;  two  cup- 
fuls  of  molasses ;  half  a  cupful  of  sour  cream ;  six  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ginger,  powdered ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  pow- 
dered ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  powdered. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slight- 
ly, and  beat  these  together;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next 
the  milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  flour,  and  whites  well 
whipped;  lastly,  the  fruit;  beat  well  before  baking;  put 


CAKE.  331 

into  two  broad  pans  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Spiced  Gingerbread,  No.  1  (Mary  Anne's). — One  cupful 
of  butter ;  one  cupful  of  molasses  ;  one  cupful  of  brown 
sugar ;  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of 
ginger ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  a 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  boiling  water ;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Melt  the  butter,  warm  slightly  the  molasses,  spice,  and 
sugar,  and  beat  together  ten  minutes ;  then  put  in  the 
water,  soda,  and  flour ;  stir  very  hard,  and  bake  in  three 
small  loaves ;  brush  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and  eat 
hot. 

Spiced  Gingerbread,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  flour ;  one 
pound  of  sugar  ;  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  five  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately  ;  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  sweet 
milk;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water; 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  one  large  tablespoon- 
ful  of  powdered  ginger ;  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
cloves ;  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  nutmeg ;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  powdered  cinnamon. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
the  milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  and  when  all  is  well  mixed 
put  in  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time ;  bake  in  buttered 
pans. 

Spiced  Gingerbread,^  o.  3. — One  cupful  of  butter;  two 
cupf  uls  of  molasses ;  two  eggs  very  well  beaten  ;  one  ta- 
blespoonf ul  of  ginger  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, and  nutmeg,  mixed  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
1  leaped  ;  one  cupful  of  sour  milk  ;  flour  enough  to  make  a 
batter  of  the  consistency  of  pound  cake. 

Plain  Gingerbread. — Two  cupfuls  of  molasses  ;  half  a 
cupful  of  lard ;   half  a  cupful  of  butter ;    one  cupful  of 


332  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

sour  milk;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  ginger;  two 
teaspoonf als  of  soda  dissolved  In  hot  water ;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Warm  the  molasses,  lard,  butter,  and  ginger,  and  beat 
them  ten  minutes  before  adding  the  milk,  soda,  and  flour  ; 
roll  out,  cut  into  shapes,  and  bake  in  a  quick,  but  not  very 
hot  oven  ;  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  while  hot. 

Composition  Cake. — Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour;  one 
and  a  quarter  pounds  of  butter  ;  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
of  sugar,  sifted ;  two  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  currants, 
picked,  washed,  and  dredged  ;  twelve  eggs,  the  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  one  gill  of  cognac ; 
one  tumblerful  of  molasses ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Bake  in  round  tins. 

Magdalen  Cake  (known  in  Bavaria  and  Saxony  as  Mag- 
dalenen  Brod). — Half  a  pound  of  small  raisins,  stoned ;  half 
a  pound  of  butter ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
sifted ;  one  pound  of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  the 
yolks  of  seven  eggs,  beaten  to  the  utmost ;  the  whites  of 
five  eggs,  beaten  to  the  utmost. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  the  yolks  and 
flour,  stirring  steadily  all  the  time  ;  then  the  highly  beaten 
whites  of  live  eggs ;  and,  lastly,  the  stoned  raisins  ;  butter 
a  large,  shallow  tin  plate,  and  spread  the  batter  on  it  about 
an  inch  thick ;  dot  with  small  chocolate  comfits  and  bake. 

Angel  Cake. — One  cupful  of  flour  (the  finest  white), 
sifted  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  one  and  a  half 
cupfuls  of  the  finest  granulated  sugar;  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  or  almond ;  the  whites  only  of  eleven  eggs, 
beaten  to  the  utmost. 

Sift  the  flour  once,  and  measure  a  cupful ;  then  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  cream  of  tartar  and  sift  four  times ; 
beat  the  whites  with  a  perforated  spoon  or  wire  beater  to 
their  utmost  capacity ;  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again  ;  or, 


CAKE.  333 

rather,  when  the  whites  are  light  and  flaky,  beat  in  the 
sugar,  and  then  beat  again ;  add  the  flavoring,  and  then 
mix  in  the  flour  lightly  and  quickly ;  have  ready  a  cake- 
pan  lined  with  white  paper  (not  greased),  pour  in  the  mixt- 
ure and  bake  forty  minutes ;  when  done,  loosen  round  the 
edge  and  turn  out  at  once.  Some  persons  have  been  more 
successful  with  this  cake  by  mixing  the  sugar  with  the 
flour  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  adding  all  at  once  the  beat- 
en egg. 

Sunshine  Cake. — Make  just  as  you  make  angel  cake, 
using  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract  instead  of  vanilla, 
and  adding  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  the  beaten 
whites  and  sugar  before  adding  the  flour. 

Watermelon  Cake  ("  Boston  Cook-book"). — Half  a  cupful 
of  butter ;  one  and  a  half  cupf  uls  of  fine  granulated  sugar, 
colored  red ;  the  }<olks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  ;  one  whole 
egg  well  beaten ;  half  a  cupful  of  milk ;  half  a  teaspoonf ul 
of  mace ;  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda ;  three  quar- 
ters of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  two  and  a  half 
cupf  uls  of  flour,  sifted ;  one  cupful  of  raisins,  seeded,  quar- 
tered, and  rolled  in  flour. 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  putting  the  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  into  the  flour,  and  milk  and  flour  alternately ;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  loaf  shrinks  from  the  pan. 

Raisin  Cream  Cake  (a  Boston  Cook-book  "). — One  scant 
cupful  of  butter;  one  and  a  half  cupf  uls  of  sugar,  sifted ; 
three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and 
well;  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring;  one  saltspoonful  of 
mace;  half  a  cupful  of  milk;  three  cupf  uls  of  pastry 
flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  then  the  flavoring ;  reserve  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cupful  of  flour  lest  the  cake  be  too  stiff,  remem- 


334  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

bering  that  less  flour  is  needed  for  a  thin  than  for  a  thick 
loaf ;  put  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  remainder 
of  the  flour ;  add  the  milk  and  flour  alternately,  a  little  at 
a  time,  and,  lastly,  the  whites,  which  have  been  beaten 
stiff  and  dry ;  bake  in  shallow,  round  pans  in  a  moderate 
oven ;  split,  and  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  currant  jelly, 
and  fill  with  a  cream  made  as  follows : 

One  cupful  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  fine ;  half  a 
cupful  of  grated  almonds ;  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut  ;  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff. 


PASTRY. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

1.  Use  none  but  the  best  materials.  The  finest  white 
flour,  sifted  through  a  hair  sieve,  in  every  stage  of  the 
process  of  paste-making.  The  best  fresh  butter;  or  the 
best  salt  butter,  washed  carefully  through  several  clear, 
cold  waters,  and  kneaded  under  water  to  extract  the  salt. 
The  butter  should  be  hard  and  cool.  The  best  lard,  firm 
and  sweet.     The  freshest  of  eggs. 

2.  Handle  all  paste  as  little  as  possible. 

3.  Make  it  in  a  cool  place. 

4.  Let  your  moulding-board  be  a  marble  slab,  or  a  board 
of  hard  wood,  clean,  smooth,  and  kept  for  this  purpose 
alone. 

The  oven  ought  to  be  ready  when  the  paste  is  begun. 
The  heat  should  be  perfectly  steady  and  even ;  i.  e.,  as 
great  at  the  bottom  as  at  the  top. 

Puff  paste  requires  a  quick  oven.  Paste  less  rich  and 
filled  with  fruit  requires  a  moderate  oven.  In  all  pies  in 
which  it  is  necessary  to  thicken  the  juice,  a  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch  will  be  found  a  great  improvement.  When 
the  lower  crust  is  filled,  strew  the  corn-starch  evenly  over 
it,  wet  the  edge  of  the  lower  crust  with  a  very  little  water, 
and  when  the  top  crust  is  put  on,  pinch  the  edges  to- 
gether. 

All  dried  fruits  for  pies  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water 
a  night  before  using  them. 

Paste  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  made. 


Plain  Pie  Crust. — One  quart  of  the  finest  white  flour, 


336  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

sifted;  half  a  pound  of  butter;  half  a  pound  of  lard, 
sweet,  firm,  and  of  the  best  quality ;  one  small  teacupful 
of  ice-water. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  wooden  bowl,  using  for  the 
purpose  a  fine  hair  sieve;  then  chop  up  the  lard  into  the 
flour  until  it  is  as  fine  as  dust;  add  enough  ice-water  to 
enable  you  to  work  all  into  a  stiff  dough,  and  work  with 
a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  necessary  for  you  to  use  your 
hands ;  then  flour  them,  and  knead  the  paste  into  a  round 
ball  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible ;  lay  this  ball  on  the 
floured  moulding-board,  and  roll  it  out  into  a  thin  sheet ; 
always  roll  one  way — from  you — and  with  a  light,  steady 
stroke ;  when  thin  enough,  stick  little  bits  of  butter,  with 
a  knife,  evenly  and  closely  all:  over  the  sheet ;  roll  up  the 
paste  then  into  a  compact  roll,  flatten  with  your  rolling- 
pin,  and  roll  out  again  as  thin  as  before ;  repeat  this,  bast- 
ing with  butter,  and  flouring  lightly  each  time  until  the 
butter  is  used  up  and  the  paste  smooth  and  even ;  then 
roll  up  and  lay  in  a  very  cold  place  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
in  hot  weather  it  may  safely  be  left  on  the  ice  for  an  hour ; 
then  roll  out  several  times,  and  cut  into  the  shape  you  re- 
quire; lay  the  paste  on  buttered  pie-plates,  fit  it  neatly, 
cut  off  the  edges,  put  in  the  fruit,  put  on  the  paste  lid, 
and  press  down  the  edges  firmly  to  prevent  the  escape  of 
the  juice ;  or  put  a  paste  lattice-work  over  the  fruit;  put 
all  the  scraps  of  paste  together,  and  roll  out  into  anoth- 
er sheet,  Bake  pastry  in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  light 
brown. 

Leaf  Paste  {Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise). — One  quart  of  the 
finest  white  flour  passed  through  a  hair  sieve ;  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  the  size  of 
a  chestnut ;  a  glass  of  cold  water. 

Put  the  sifted  flour  on  your  moulding-board,  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  of  the  heap,  and  pour  in  the  yolks, 
well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
enough  water  to  enable  you  to  work  the  whole  together ; 


PASTKY.  337 

do  this  quickly,  handling  it  as  little  as  possible ;  form  it 
into  a  ball,  cover  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  leave  it  for 
twenty  minutes ;  then  dust  the  moulding-board  with  flour, 
and  roll  out  the  paste ;  it  should  be  longer  than  it  is  wide  ; 
then  drain,  and  roll  out  into  one  sheet  (between  two 
floured  linen  cloths)  eighteen  and  a  half  ounces  of  the 
finest  fresh  butter ;  place  this  on  one  half  of  the  sheet  of 
paste,  and  fold  the  paste  over  it,  so  as  to  sandwich  the 
butter;  the  paste  and  the  butter  should  be  of  precisely 
the  same  consistency,  so  that  they  may  be  handled,  rolled, 
and  moulded  smoothly  ;  roll  the  paste  and  butter  very 
carefully,  smoothly,  and  thinly ;  then  fold  again  in  three, 
then  roll  up  into  a  roll,  and  roll  out  again  into  a  thin  sheet ; 
repeat  this — at  intervals  of  a  quarter  of  an  hour — six  times 
in  summer  and  seven  in  winter,  dusting  both  moulding- 
board  and  paste  lightly  each  time  with  sifted  flour;  it  will 
then  be  ready,  and  at  the  expiration  of  five  minutes  may 
be  baked ;  the  oven  should  be  ready  beforehand,  as  this 
leaf  paste  is  easily  spoiled  by  waiting.  This  is  really  the 
nicest  paste  for  pies  and  tarts. 

Galette  Italienne. — Make  as  above,  roll  out  very  thin, 
cut  into  rounds  with  a  tumbler,  prick  all  over  with  a  fork, 
brush  lightly  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  lay  on  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Remove  from  the  paper,  salt  lightly,  and  serve  cold. 
Delicious  with  tea. 

Transparent  Leaf  Paste. — One  pound  of  finest  white 
flour,  sifted  through  a  hair  sieve;  one  pound  of  fresh 
butter;  yolk  of  one  egg,  whipped  very  light. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  pot  set  within  a  vessel,  set  in 
another  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  the  butter  gently  all  the 
time  ;  then  skim,  and  when  almost  cold  beat  up  the  butter 
a  little  with  the  whipped  egg;  when  these  are  thoroughly 
mixed,  work  the  flour,  roll  out  twice,  dusting  lightly  each 
time  with  flour  before  you  fold  it,  then  let  it  stand  five 

15 


338  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

minutes  folded  in  a  cold  place,  and  roll  out  for  tartlets, 
pates,  or  galette.     Bake  at  once. 

French  Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  finest  white  flour, 
sifted  through  a  hair  sieve ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter;  yolk  of  one  egg,  well  beaten;  ice-water 
enough  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  paste. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour;  stir  the  beaten  egg 
into  half  a  cupful  of  ice- water,  and  work  the  flour  into  a 
stiff  dough  ;  roll  out  thin,  baste  with  one  third  the  remain- 
ing butter,  fold  closely,  roll  out  again,  and  so  on,  until  the 
butter  is  used  up;  roll  out  very  thin,  and  set  the  last  roll 
in  a  very  cold  place  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  using 
the  crust.     Wash  with  beaten  egg  while  hot. 

Plain  Raised  Pie  Crust— One  pound  of  flour ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound'  of  butter  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda ; 
two  teaspoonf uls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  ice-water  to  make  a 
stiff  dough. 

Sift  the  flour  through  a  hair  sieve,  then  sift  the  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  flour,  then  pass  the  flour  so 
mixed  three  times  through  a  hair  sieve ;  then  chop  the 
butter  through  the  flour  very  evenly  and  freely ;  then 
work  with  ice-water  to  a  stiff  dough,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet, 
baste  with  one  third  the  remaining  butter,  fold  up  closely 
into  a  long  roll,  flatten,  and  reroll ;  then  beat  again ;  do 
this  three  times,  until  the  butter  is  gone.  Then  roll  out 
the  crust. 

Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted 
through  a  hair  sieve  ;  one  pound  of  fresh  butter  ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted  as  above,  and  kept 
apart  to  dust  with. 

Rub  one  of  the  quarters  of  butter  into  the  pound  of 
flour,  and  mix  it  with  as  much  cold  water  as  will 
moisten  the  paste,  and  make  it  easy  to  work ;  roll  this 
dough  out  on  the  paste-board  three  times,  each  time  adding 


PASTRY.  339 

to  the  rolled-out  sheet  a  quarter  of  the  pound  of  butter, 
dotting  it  over  in  spots,  and  then  dusting  it  with  the  sieve 
from  the  reserved  flour ;  when  this  is  done,  set  the  lump 
of  dough  on  one  side  of  the  board,  cut  off  from  it  enough 
for  one  pie,  roll  this  out  very  thin,  and  dust  it  with  flour ; 
then  fold  it  up  and  roll  it  out  again,  and  then  roll  it  the 
proper  thickness  for  your  crust;  the  rolling-up  and  dust- 
ing is  to  make  it  flak}7.  Handle  all  paste  as  little  as  pos- 
sible. 

Plain  Apple  Pie. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  ripe,  tart  win- 
ter apples;  line  a  deep  dish  with  fine  puff  paste;  put  in 
a  layer  of  fruit,  sprinkle  white  or  light-brown  sugar  on  it, 
scatter  half  a  dozen  cloves  upon  this,  put  in  another  layer 
of  apples,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  well  filled  ;  cover 
with  crust,  and  bake. 

Mich  Apple  Pie. — One  dozen  of  fine,  ripe,  tart  apples, 
peeled,  cored,  and  grated;  one  pound  of  white  sugar; 
half  a  pound  of  butter ;  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately; one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  peel;  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  apple,  lastly  the  beaten 
whites ;  bake  in  open  shell  of  puff  paste,  with  crossbars 
of  the  same  on  the  top. 

Green  Apple  Pie. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  green  apples, 
and  stew  until  very  soft,  with  a  little  grated  lemon  and 
juice  ;  sweeten  to  taste,  press  through  a  sieve,  stir  in  a  very 
little  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  pie ; 
bake  in  open  shells  of  puff  paste,  with  crossbars  of  the 
same  over  the  top. 

Apple  Meringue  Pie. — Pare,  core,  slice,  and  stew  ripe, 
juicy  apples  ;  stew  them  with  a  little  lemon  peel,  enough 
to  flavor  them  nicely ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of 


340  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

grated  nutmeg;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold  fill 
open  crusts  of  paste,  and  bake ;  then  cover  each  pie  with 
a  thick  meringue,  made  by  whipping  up  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  for  each  pie,  allowing  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
for  each  egg ;  flour  to  taste.  The  meringue  should  be 
very  stiff;  place  in  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  set. 
Eat  cold. 

Thanksgiving  Apple  Pie.  —  Six  apples,  peeled,  cored, 
stewed,  and  strained  ;  six  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  ;  six  ounces 
of  butter ;  six  eggs  beaten  light,  whites  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately ;  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  peel  of  one ;  one 
wineglassful  of  rose  water.    - 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  lemon,  rose  water,  and  stewed  apples;  lastly,  beat  in 
the  whites  very  lightly  ;  then  fill  your  paste,  and  bake. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Three  cupfuls  of  stewed  apple; 
nearly  one  cupful  of  white  sugar;  six  eggs  beaten  light; 
one  quart  of  rich  milk. 

Stew  the  apple  and  let  it  cool ;  beat  the  eggs'  light,  and 
mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apple,  seasoning  it  with  nut- 
meg only  ;  then  stir  in  gradually  the  milk,  beating  as  you 
go  on  ;  lastly,  add  the  whites ;  bake  in  crust  with  a  lattice- 
work of  paste  on  the  top. 

Madison  Apple  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  rich  puff 
paste ;  slice  the  apples,  previously  pared  and  cored,  into 
the  pie-dish,  heaping  it  quite  full ;  bake  it  until  the  ap- 
ples are  done,  and  the  pie  brown  ;  then  take  off  the  upper 
crust,  lay  it  upside  down  on  a  napkin,  and  season  the  pie 
by  stirring  into  it  cream  and  sugar  flavored  with  rose,  cin- 
namon, or  allspice,  according  to  taste ;  replace  the  cover, 
and  serve  hot. 

Pineapple  Pie. — One  large  pineapple,  pared  and  grat- 
ed ;  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter;  half  a  pound  of  sugar; 


PASTRY.  341 

one  wineglassful  of  brandy;  one  tablespoonful  of  rose  wa- 
ter ;  a  little  nutmeg,  grated. 

Mix  all  together  with  the  juice  and  pulp  of  the  pine- 
apple, adding  a  little  grated  bread  ;  bake  ten  minutes  in  a 
crust. 

Apple  Mince-meat. — Two  pounds  of  tart  apples,  pared, 
cored,  and  chopped ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef 
suet,  cleared  from  strings  and  powdered  ;  one  pound  of 
currants,  well  picked,  washed,  and  dredged  ;  half  a  pound 
of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  ;  half  a  pound  of  Sultana 
raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cit- 
ron, shredded  fine  ;  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large 
lemon ;  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  ;  half  a  pint  of  the  best 
white  brandy  ;  one  glassful  of  sherry  or  Madeira  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cloves;  one  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered mace ;  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  allspice  ;  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  fine  salt. 

Pack  down  in  a  stone  jar  with  a  close  cover^  and  keep 
in  a  cold  place. 

Pan  Dowdy. — Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  baking-pan  with 
common  pie  crust ;  fill  it  with  apples,  pared,  cored,  and 
quartered,  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  a  cupful  of  cider,  and  a  little  water; 
cover  it  with  rather  a  thick  crust;  bake  it  slowly  four 
hours ;  then  break  in  the  crust,  and  mix  it  well  with  the 
apples;  eat  with  cream. 

Imitation  Apple  Pie.  —  One  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  ; 
one  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful  of  hot  water;  enough 
tartaric  acid  or  lemon  juice  to  make  it  a  little  sour. 

Orange  Cream  Pie. — Peel  of  one  orange  boiled  in  a 
pint  of  water ;  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  boiled  with  the 
orange  peel ;  the  juice  of  three  oranges,  well  strained  and 


342  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

added  to  the  above ;  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  beaten  very 
light. 

When  yon  have  added  the  orange  juice  to  the  boiled 
peel  and  sugar,  take  out  the  peel  and  set  the  syrup  aside 
to  cool;  when  cold  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs,  and  put  the 
bowl  containing  the  whole  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
on  the  fire;  stir  all  the  time  and  until  it  begins  to  be  very 
thick;  then  take  from  the  fire,  pour  into  open  shells  of 
puff  paste,  and  bake.     This  is  a  delicious  pie. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. — One  teacupf  ul  of  powdered  sugar ; 
one  tablespoonf ul  of  fresh  butter  ;  one  egg ;  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  one-teacupf  ul  of  boiling  water ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

Stir  the  corn-starch  into  the  water,  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  pour  over, them  the  hot  mixture;  when  quite 
cold  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  the 
beaten  egg;  bake  in  open  shells. 

Custard  Pie.  —  Four  eggs  well  beaten  ;  one  quart  of 
milk;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  flavoring  to 
taste. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  light,  and  mix  with  the  milk ; 
flavor,  whip  in  the  beaten  whites,  mix  well,  and  pour  into 
shells ;  bake  as  cup  custard  or  custard  pudding. 

Cream  Pie. — Two  pints  of  milk ;  one  pint  of  cream ; 
six  eggs;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch ;  flavoring  to  taste. 

Boil  the  cream  and  milk  as  usual  in  a  farina  kettle,  stir 
in  the  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  water,  and  boil  one  minute  ; 
when  nearly  cold  stir  in  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  all  the 
eggs,  and  the  whipped  whites  of  two,  also  the  flavoring; 
when  the  cream  is  smooth  pour  into  puff-paste  shells,  and 
bake  ;  whip  the  remaining  whites  with  powdered  sugar  to 
the  stiffest  possible  froth ;  flavor  differently  from  the 
cream  ;  then  draw  the  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven,  put 


PASTRY.  343 

on  the  meringue  quickly,  and  replace  in  the  oven  to  set; 
do  this  rapidly  ;  eat  cold. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie,  No.  1. — One  quart  of  milk  or  sweet 
cream  ;  quarter  of  a  cake  of  the  finest  vanilla  chocolate, 
grated ;  six  eggs,  yolks  of  all,  and  whites  of  three ;  one 
pint  of  boiling  water;  half  a  cupful  of  white  sugar;  two 
cofleespoon fuls  of  vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into«the 
boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes;  when  nearly  cold 
beat  up  with  this  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs  and  the  whites 
of  three;  stir  this  mixture  into  the  milk,  flavor,  and  pour 
into  shells  of  puff  paste ;  whip  the  remaining  whites  into 
a  stiff  froth  with  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  cream  is 
set  spread  this  meringue  over  it,  and  place  for  a  moment 
in  the  oven. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie,  No.  2. — Half  a  cake  of  the  finest 
vanilla  chocolate,  grated  ;  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  well 
beaten  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  cold 
water  ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk ;  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  ;  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almonds,  roasted  and  ground  to 
powder;  one  teaspoonful  of  fresh  butter,  melted. 

Grate  the  chocolate  to  a  fine  powder,  rub  it  smooth  in 
the  milk,  heat  to  boiling  over  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch wet  with  cold  water ;  stir  five  minutes  until  well 
thickened,  stirring  in,  also,  the  melted  butter;  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  pour  into  a  bowl ;  beat  all  the  yolks 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  with  the  sugar,  and  whip 
into  the  chocolate  mixture ;  when  it  is  almost  cold  add, 
also,  the  flavoring,  and  beat  all  together  until  light  and 
smooth  ;  bake  in  open  shells  of  pastry ;  beat  up  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a  stiff 
meringue,  flavor  very  delicately  with  bitter  almond,  and 
spread  over  the  pies. 


344  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie. — One  pound  of  cocoanut,  grated ; 
half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar ;  one  quart  of  half  milk, 
half  cream  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almonds,  roasted  and 
ground  ;  two  teaspoon fuls  of  rose  water. 

Boil  the  milk  and  cream  in  a  farina  kettle ;  take  it  from 
the  fire;  whip  in  gradually  the  beaten  eggs;  when  cool, 
but  not  cold,  season,  whip  in  the  cocoanut,  and  pour  into 
paste  shells ;  bake  twenty  minutes. 

> 

Cocoanut  Pie,  E"o.  1. — Half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut ; 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter ;  half  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar;  one  wineglassful  of  brandy;  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flavoring  to  taste. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  smooth  cream ;  whip  in 
the  brandy  and  lemon  juice  ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ; 
lastly,  the  cocoanut  alternately  with  the  whites ;  bake  in 
open  shells  of  the  finest  puff  paste. 

Cocoanut  Pie,  No.  2. — Half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut ; 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  powdered ;  six 
ounces  of  butter ;  five  eggs,  whites  only  ;  two  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  rose  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  grated ; 
one  wineglassful  of  pale  sherry. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  when  well  mixed  beat  very 
light  with  the  wTine  and  rose  water;  whip  in  the  cocoanut 
as  lightly  as  possible,  finally  the  stiffened  whites  of  eggs; 
bake  in  open  shells  of  the  lightest  possible  puff  paste. 

Bdkewell  Pie.  —  Four  ounces  of  melted  butter;  four 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar ;  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten 
light ;  whites  of  four  beaten  to  the  utmost  degree  of  stiff- 
ness ;  one  tablespoonful  of  ratifia. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  open  shells  of  puff 
paste  which  have  previously  been  spread  an  inch  thick 
with  preserve ;  pour  the  Bakewell  over  the  preserve,  and 
bake  at  once.     {Delicious.) 


PASTRY.  345 

Fruit  Pie  as  made  in  Austria. — Take  a  large,  shallow 
pie-dish — the  larger  the  better;  cover  it  with  plain  fam- 
ily pie  crust ;  cut  with  your  jagging-iron  some  long,  thin 
strips  of  paste,  and  with  them  make  a  sparse  lattice- 
work over  the  plate  ;  do  this  before  putting  in  the  fruit ; 
then  fill  the  interstices  with  fresh  fruit ;  dust  lightly  with 
sugar,  and  bake ;  then  dust  with  sugar  again  ;  serve  cold. 
This  is  a  delicious  pie.  Large  tart  plums,  stoned  and  cut 
in  half,  are  excellent  for  this  pie ;  so  are  apricots,  stoned 
and  halved  ;  but  any  fruit  is  adapted  for  it. 

Lemon  Pie,No.  1. — Grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and  all  the 
juice ;  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  sifted  ;  one  cupful  of  cream  ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  sifted. 

Beat  the  yolks  first ;  then  add  the  sugar,  cream,  flour, 
rind,  and  juice  in  order ;  beat  long  and  well,  and  bake  in 
an  open  crust;  while  baking  beat  the  whites  stiff  with 
four  tablespoon fuls  of  sifted  white  sugar ;  when  the  pie 
is  baked,  spread  the  whites  on  lightly  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  brown.  The  above  quantity  is  enough  for  two  small 
pies.     Eat  cold. 

Lemon  Pie,  'No.  2. — Half  a  pound  of  butter  ;  one  pound 
of  sugar ;  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ; 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  grated  rind  of  two  ;  one  nutmeg, 
grated  ;  half  a  glassful  of  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  beat  in  the  yolks,  lemon, 
spice,  and  brandy,  the  yolks  last  of  all ;  bake  in  open  crusts 
of  pie  paste ;  eat  cold. 

Mince-meat,  Philadelphia. — One  pound  of  fresh  beef, 
freed  from  fat  and  fibre,  and  chopped  fine ;  two  pounds 
of  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered  ;  one  and  a  quar- 
ter pounds  of  currants,  carefully  washed,  dried,  and  picked 
over ;  one  and  a  quarter  pounds,  also,  of  Sultana  raisins, 
seeded  and  chopped  ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ; 

15* 


346  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

quarter  of  an  ounce  of  powdered  cloves;  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  powdered  mace  ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  ;  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  the  finest  rose  water ;  quarter  of  a  pint  of  old 
Madeira  or  pale  sherry  ;  the  rind  of  two  lemons,  grated ; 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange  peel,  shredded  fine ; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Moisten  the  whole  with  cider. 

Mince-meat  (Beeton). — Three  pounds  of  snet,  shredded 
and  chopped  fine;  four  pounds  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded 
and  chopped  ;  four  pounds  of  currants,  carefully  washed, 
dried,  and  picked  over ;  fifty  pippin  apples,  peeled,  cored, 
and  chopped  fine ;  one  fresh  neat's  tongue,  boiled  and  chop- 
ped fine  ;•  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  cloves  ;  half  an  ounce 
of  powdered  mace ;  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  nutmeg ; 
one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar ;  one  pint  of  the  finest 
brandy ;  one  pint  of  the  finest  white  wine ;  the  juice  of 
one  orange  and  of  one  lemon ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron. 

Stir  all  together,  and  put  it  away  in  a  stone  pot ;  when 
the  pies  are  made,  stir  up  the  whole  of  the  mince-meat, 
take  from  it  as  much  as  you  will  require  for  the  baking, 
taste  it,  and  if  not  flavored  enough  add  a  little  wine  and 
the  juice  of  an  orange. 

Mock  Mince -meat  —  ("Common -Sense  in  the  House- 
hold").— Six  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine ;  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
water ;  one  cupful  of  molasses ;  one  cupful  of  brown  sug- 
ar; one  cupful  of  sour  cider;  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
melted  butter;  one  cupful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped; 
one  cupful  of  currants;  two  eggs  beaten  light;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  mixed;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  nutmeg ;  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves  ;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  black  pepper ;  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy. 

Mince  Pie. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  tenderloin 
of  beef  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beefsteak,  both 


PASTRY.  347 

chopped  very  fine ;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  suet  chopped 
to  a  powder ;  three  pounds  of  chopped  apples  ;  two  pounds 
of  currants,  picked  and  washed;  two  pounds  of  Sultana 
raisins,  seeded;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar; 
half  a  cupful  of  vinegar;  one  pint  of  brandy;  two  glass- 
fuls  of  Madeira  or  sherry;  one  teaspoonful  of  mace;  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves;  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Edinburgh  Mince  Pie. — Two  pounds  of  beef  chopped 
fine;  two  pounds  of  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings  and 
chopped  to  powder';  four  and  a  half  pounds  of  chopped 
apples;  one  pound  of  currants,  picked  and  dredged;  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded;  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  of  brown  sugar ;  three  pints  of  cider ;  one  pint  of 
molasses;  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar;  one  quart  of  the  best 
brandy;  three  glassfuls  of  sherry  wine;  one  tablespoonful 
of  fine  salt;  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cloves, 
mace,  and  cinnamon. 

Missionary  Pie. — One  pound  of  sugar,  powdered ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  creamed  with  the  su- 
gar;  one  grated  cocoanut;  ten  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately;  one  quart  of  milk;  three  slices  of  stale 
baker's  bread,  crumbled  and  boiled  with  the  milk. 

Mix  the  boiled  milk  and  bread  well  with  the  sugar  and 
butter,  and  divide  the  mixture  into  two  equal  parts ;  add 
the  beaten  yolks  to  one  part  and  the  grated  cocoanut  and 
beaten  whites  to  another ;  flavor  the  white  pies  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  brandy  and  the  same  quantity  of  rose  water, 
and  the  yellow  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  an  orange ;  bake  in  open  shells  of  puff  paste,  with 
puffed  edges; 

Peach  Pie. — If  made  of  ripe  peaches,  proceed  precisely 
as  for  "Austrian  Fruit  Pie,"  substituting  for  the  plums 
ripe  peaches,  pared,  quartered,  and  sugared. 


348  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Peach  Pie  of  Preserved  Peaches. — Fill  open  shells  of 
fine  puff  paste  with  preserved  peaches,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Peach  Pie  with  Meringue. — Proceed  as  above,  but  cover 
the  peaches  with  a  stiff  meringue  an  inch  thick,  flavored 
with  bitter  almond. 

Peach  Pie  with  Canned  Peaches. — Line  a  deep  dish 
with  good  puff  paste ;  put  in  a  layer  of  canned  peaches, 
sugar  lightly,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is 
full ;  cover  with  paste  and  bake ;  or  omit  the  paste  cover, 
and  when  just  baked  put  on  a  thick  meringue,  and  put 
back  in  the  oven  until  set. 

Dried-Peach  Pie.— One  quart  of  stewed  dried  peaches, 
stewed  with  a  little  lemon  peel,  sweetened  to  taste,  strained 
through  a  sieve,  and  enriched  by  a  little  corn-starch  mixed 
with  cold  water. 

Fill  open  crusts  of  paste,  cover  with  crossbars  of  paste, 
and  bake.     This  is  the  best  of  all  peach  pies. 

Cherry  Pie,  "No.  1. — Stone  fine,  ripe  cherries,  line  a 
dish  with  good  pie  crust,  fill  with  cherries,  sugaring  them 
well,  cover  with  crust,  and  bake. 

Cherry  Pie,  No.  2. — Proceed  as  above,  but  bake  in 
open  shells  as  for  "  Austrian  Fruit  Pie,"  and  pour  over  the 
cherries,  after  they  are  sugared,  a  teacupf ul  of  cherry  juice. 

Sweet- Potato  Pie.  —  Two  pounds  of  sweet  potatoes, 
boiled  and  mashed  fine  ;  one  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream ;  one  pound  of  sugar  creamed  with  the  butter;  five 
eggs  beaten  light ;  one  wineglassf  ul  of  wine ;  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy;  one  wineglassf  ul  of  rose  water;  half  a 
pint  of  cream ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  spice. 

Beat  the  boiled  potatoes  by  degrees  into  the  butter  and 


PASTRY.  349 

sugar,  then  add  the  eggs  and  the  other  ingredients  in  or- 
der ;  fill  the  open  puff  shells  with  the  mixture,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  The  above  quantity  will  make  seven 
puddingplatefuls. 

Yam  Pie. — One  pound  of  boiled  and  grated  yam  ;  half 
a  pound  of  butter;  half  a  pound  of  sugar  creamed  with 
the  butter;  one  wineglassful  of  sherry;  one  wineglassful 
of  rose  water;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg;  six 
eggs  beaten  light. 

Mix  the  grated  yam  with  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar, 
and  add  the  other  ingredients  in  order;  if  the  mixture 
should  not  be  sufficiently  liquid,  add  a  little  cream  ;  bake 
in  an  open  crust  of  puff  paste,  wTith  a  rolled  border. 

Pickering  Squash  Pie.  —  One  quart  of  boiled  milk; 
three  pints  of  squash,  stewed  and  strained;  one  pound  of 
butter  and  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sifted  sugar  beat- 
en to  a  cream;  one  nutmeg,  grated;  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  rose  water;  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately; seven  sailor's  biscuits,  pounded  fine. 

Proceed  precisely  as  for  "Yam  Pie,"  only  scalding  the  bis- 
cuits with  milk,  and  adding  the  beaten  eggs  to  the  creamed 
butter  and  sugar;  then  the  other  ingredients  in  order; 
bake  in  open  shells  of  puff  paste,  with  thick  edges. 

Connecticut  Pumpkin  Pie,  No.  1. — One  quart  of  milk; 
one  pint  of  stewed  and  strained  pumpkin  ;  two  cupfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  ;  four  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt ;  flavoring  to  taste,  either  ginger,  mace,  cinnamon, 
or  grated  lemon  peel. 

Stir  the  flavoring  well  into  the  pumpkin,  and,  having 
the  milk  heated  to  the  boiling-point  in  a  pitcher  placed  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  pour  it  gradually  into  the  pump- 
kin ;  return  the  mixture  to  the  pitcher  in  the  kettle,  have 
the  eggs  and  sugar  well  beaten,  and  put  a  small  portion  of 
the  hot  pumpkin  in  and  heat  it;  add  more  until  the  eggs 


350  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

are  cooked  ;  put  it  again  into  the  pitcher,  stir  and  pour  it 
into  the  pie-plates,  and  bake  it  immediately  with  a  lower 
crust  only. 

Pumpkin  Pie,  ~No.  2.— One  quart  of  pumpkin,  stewed 
and  strained;  one  quart  of  milk;  one  cupful  of  sugar; 
seven  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  one 
teaspoonf nl  of  ginger ;  one  teaspoonful  of  mace ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without  a  cover. 

Pumpkin  Pie,  No.  3. — One  quart  of  pumpkin,  stewed 
and  strained;  nine  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separate- 
ly; two  quarts  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  mace;  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg; 
one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  the  best  light-brown  sugar. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without  a  cover. 

Raisin  Pie. — One  cupful  of  crackers,  rolled  fine;  one 
cupful  of  cold  water;  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon; 
one  cupful  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  fine ;  one  cupful 
of  sugar. 

Blend  all  thoroughly  together,  and  add  one  egg  well 
beaten;  bake  with  a  thin  upper  and  under  crust;  wash 
the  top  crust  with  beaten  white  of  egg ;  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Orange  Pie. — One  large  orange,  the  juice,  and  half  the 
grated  rind;  half  a  lemon,  the  juice,  and  the  grated  peel ; 
three  eggs ;  three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  white  sugar ; 
two  tablespoonf uls  of  fresh  butter ;  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  until  light,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  two  pastry 
shells,  and  bake ;  beat  the  whites  very  light  with  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  pies  are 
done  spread  it  over  them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes. 


PASTRY.  351 

Cherry  Tart  of  Preserved  Cherries. — Proceed  as  for 
other  pies. 

Strawberry  Tart. — Pick  over  the  strawberries  carefully, 
and  arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  deep  puff  crust,  sprin- 
kling each  layer  thickly  with  sugar;  fill  very  full,  pour 
in  a  teacupful  of  strawberry  juice,  cover  with  crust,  and 
bake. 

Cream  Strawberry  Tart. — Proceed  as  above,  putting  on 
a  very  thick  top  crust  with  a  slit  in  the  top ;  when  the  pie 
is  done,  pour  in  through  the  slit  in  the  top,  by  means  of 
a  small  funnel,  the  following  mixture : 

One  small  cupful  of  milk  and  cream,  half  and  half, 
heated  to  boiling;  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  light  and 
stirred  into  the  boiling  milk;  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Boil  all  together  three  minutes,  stirring  until  quite 
smooth;  set  aside  to  cool  before  pouring  into  the  tart; 
when  you  have  poured  in  the  cream  set  the  tart  aside  to 
cool,  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

Raspberry  Pie  or  Tart. — Make  just  as  you  do  "  Straw- 
berry Tart." 

Cream  Raspberry  Pie  or  Tart.  —  Make  as  "Cream 
Strawberry  Tart." 

Blackberry  and  Huckleberry  Pie  or  Tart. — Proceed  as 
for  "  Strawberry  Tart,"  sweetening  to  taste. 

Currant  Pie. — Prepare  a  good  family  pie  crust,  slight- 
ly sweetened ;  string  and  pick  over  the  currants  with  ex- 
treme care,  and  sweeten  abundantly  with  powdered  sugar; 
bake  in  open  shell  of  pie  crust,  with  crossbars  of  paste 
over  the  top ;  serve  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sprinkled 
over  it. 


352  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Currant-and-Baspberry  Tart. — Three  cupfuls  of  cur- 
rants ;  one  cupful  of  raspberries. 

Mix  well  together,  sweeten,  and  then  bake  in  a  deep 
pie-dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  and  with  paste  cover ;  eat 
cold,  with  powdered  sugar  if  necessary. 

Green- Gooseberry  Tart — Pick,  top,  and  tail  the  goose- 
berries; stew  slowly  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  just 
enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning,  until  they 
break;  then  sweeten  thoroughly,  and  set  aside  to  cool; 
when  cold,  put  into  a  deep  pastry  shell  of  puff  paste,  cov- 
er with  a  top  crust  of  puff  paste,  and  bake  ;  brush  all  over 
with  beaten  egg  while  hot,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to 
glaze. 

Bipe- Gooseberry  Tart. — Pick,  top,  and  tail  the  goose- 
berries, and  bake  in  a  deep  shell  of  puff  paste,  strewing 
among  them  as  much  sugar  as  they  need  ;  cover  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake. 

Bijpe-Plum  Pie. — Proceed  as  for  "Austrian  Fruit  Pie," 
using  fine,  large  plums. 

Preserved-Plum  Pie. — Fill  an  open,  shallow  shell  of 
puff  paste  with  preserved  green  gages ;  cover  with  cross- 
bars of  paste,  and  bake. 

Plum  Tart. — Stone  the  plums,  put  into  a  deep  shell  of 
puff  paste,  scatter  sugar  over  them  (to  taste),  pour  in  half 
a  cupful  of  plum  juice,  cover  with  paste,  and  bake. 

Damson  Tart. — Proceed  precisely  as  above,  sweetening 
abundantly. 

Cranberry  Pie. — Wash  and  pick  over  the  cranberries, 
and  stew  in  a  porcelain  saucepan  with  a  very  little  water 
until  they  are  very  tender  and  burst ;  then  press  through 


PASTRY.  353 

a  strainer,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  in  open  shells  of  puff 
paste  with  crossbars  of  pastry  on  the  top. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Skin  the  stalks  with  care,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  very  little  water,  and  stew 
slowly  until  soft ;  sweeten  while  hot,  pour  into  freshly 
baked  shells,  and  serve  hot  or  cold,  as  you  like. 

Or,  you  may  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  a  well- 
beaten  egg  to  the  hot -sweetened  rhubarb,  and  bake  in 
pastry. 

Rhubarb  Tart. — Peel  and  cut  the  stalks  into  small 
pieces,  and  arrange  in  deep  shells  of  puff  paste,  sugaring 
them  well,  and  mixing  in  seeded  raisins;  cover  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake  nearly  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  brush 
with  egg  while  hot,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  glaze ;  eat 
cold. 


PUDDINGS. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

Puddings  arc  of  two  kinds — boiled  and  baked.  Boiled 
puddings  should  be  put  into  strong  bags  of  coarse  linen, 
well  floured  inside.  These  bags  should  be  neatly  and 
firmly  sewed,  and  carefully  washed  (by  themselves)  every 
time  they  are  used. ,  They  should  always  be  kept  apart 
from  all  other  household  linen,  and  tightly  closed  in  a  tin 
box  lest  they  should  contract  some  odor. 


Amber  Pudding, — Mix  well  together  the  yolks  of  three 
or  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  the  finely  grated  rind  of  one  small 
orange.  The  eggs  should,  of  course,  be  well  beaten,  whites 
and  yolks  separately;  melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  eggs,  etc. ;  have  ready 
a  deep  pie-dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  half  an  hour.     It  is  best  cold. 

Venus  Pudding. — Take  a  quart  mould,  butter  it  well, 
and  ornament  it  with  candied  ginger ;  make  a  rich  cus- 
tard with  the  yolks  of  twelve  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs, 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  loaf  sugar  to  taste ;  then  dissolve  one 
ounce  of  gelatine  in  sufficient  milk  to  fill  up  the  mould; 
when  cold  add  a  glassful  of  rum  or  sherry;  flavor  with 
bitter  almond  ;  when  well  mixed  pour  into  the  mould, 
and  set  it  on  the  ice  to  set.  The  longer  it  is  on  the  ice 
the  better. 


PUDDINGS.  355 

Fine  Apple  Pudding. — Peel  and  core  some  fine  apples, 
place  them  in  a  baking-dish,  and  pot  in  the  centre  of  each 
one  a  spoonful  of  cherry  or  any  other  preserve ;  beat  ten 
yolks  of  eggs  with  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  cream, 
the  grated  rind  of  two  oranges,  and  some  cinnamon ;  pour 
this  over  the  apples,  and  let  it  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  is  served  without  sauce. 

Simple  Apple  Padding. — Beat  up  six  eggs  with  one 
full  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  cardamom  ;  peel, 
core,  and  fill  the  centre  of  your  apples  with  preserves  ; 
pour  a  quart  of  sweet  cream  over  this,  and  let  it  bake. 

Apple  Snow. — Take  one  dozen  large  apples,  bake  and 
peel  them,  and  pass  them  through  a  colander ;  add  three 
handfuls  of  grated  black  bread,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  a 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  or  cardamom,  beat  the  whites  of 
eighteen  eggs  to  a  snow,  stir  in  the  apples,  put  it  in  a 
warm  buttered  baking -dish,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour. 


Chocolate  Pudding.— -Ten  eggs ;  one  loaf  of  stale  bread, 
grated  ;  six  ounces  of  chocolate,  grated  ;  half  of  a  vanilla 
bean  ;  sugar  to  taste  ;  a  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Beat  all  this  together  with  a  quart  of  sour  cream,  bake 
it  in  the  oven,  and  serve  with  sweet-cream  sauce. 

Tansy  Pudding. — Crumbs  of  a  small  loaf  of  baiter's 
bread  soaked  in  a  pint  of  milk  ;  three  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  white  sugar  ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter ;  as  many  fresh  tansy  leaves  as 
will  cover  the  palm  of  the  hand,  chopped  fine,  and  stirred 
in  last  of  all. 

Steam  or  boil  for  two  hours,  and  eat  with  a  rich,  hot, 
sweet  sauce,  flavored  with  lemon. 

Apple  Charlotte. — Pare  and  core  the  apples;  toast  some 


356  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

bread  in  butter ;  then  put  this  in  a  dish  with  sugar,  cin- 
namon, lemon  peel,  raisins,  and  a  little  wine;  line  a  mould 
with  slices  of  bread,  and  pour  this  in  and  bake. 

Layer  Apple  Pudding.  —  Make  a  paste  of  beef  snet, 
chopped  fine,  and  the  finest  sifted  flour,  with  water  enough 
to  enable  you  to  mould  it  into  a  paste,  and  a  tiny  pinch  of 
salt ;  mix  well  and  smoothly,  and  roll  out  into  a  smooth 
paste  ;  line  with  this  a  well-buttered  tin  ;  put  in  a  layer  of 
pared,  cored,  and  sliced  apples,  a  little  lemon,  and  brown 
sugar ;  then  a  thin  layer  of  paste,  then  another  of  apples 
prepared  as  before,  and  repeat  these  layers  until  the  dish 
is  full ;  cover  in  with  paste,  and  boil  for  nearly  three 
hours.  A  little  butter  and  nutmeg  mixed  with  the  apples 
is  an  improvement  to  this  excellent  pudding. 

Apple-Custard  Pudding.  —  Line  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish  with  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  or  light  white  bread ; 
then  make  a  filling  as  follows :  One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
one  pint  of  smooth  apple  sauce  well  seasoned,  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  enough  cinnamon  to  flavor.  This  quan- 
tity will  make  two  small  puddings. 

Dried- Peach  Pudding.  —  One  pint  of  dried  bread 
crumbs  softened  with  boiling  water ;  one  spoonful  of 
melted  butter  stirred  in  ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  pint 
of  dried  peaches  stewed  soft. 

Sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  a  little  orange  peel,  put 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Cream  Pudding  with  Cherries. — A  quarter  of  a  pound 
each  of  fine  flour,  sugar,  and  butter,  mixed  with  a  quart  of 
warm  milk. 

Boil  to  the  consistency  of  custard ;  add  six  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  having  been  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  stir 
in  a  cupful  of  preserved  cherries,  pour  into  a  deep  pudding- 
dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  bake  in  the  oven  one  hour. 


PUDDINGS.  357 

Prince  Albert  Padding. — Half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter ; 
cream  it,  and  mix  half  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar  by  de- 
grees ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs 
and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  snow ;  then  stir  in  half  a  pound 
of  finely  sifted  flour,  half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  and  a 
suspicion  of  lemon  peel  or  grated  nutmeg ;  boil  this  pudding 
in  a  well-buttered  mould  or  floured  pudding-cloth  ;  let  it 
cook  three  hours  ;  serve  with  punch,  wine,  or  fruit  sauce, 
as  preferred. 

Apple  Pudding,  Baked. — Take  the  crumbs  of  three 
fresh  French  rolls,  soak  in  sweet  milk,  squeeze  out  the 
milk,  and  put  the  bread  in  a  saucepan ;  add  half  a  pound 
of  butter;  let  it  cook;  when  cold  stir  in  twelve  eggs, 
grease  a  plate,  and  put  in  this  paste  ;  pare  your  apples, 
and  let  them  simmer  gently  a  few  minutes  in  butter;  sprin- 
kle with  powdered  cinnamon  ;  rub  some  sugar  over  the 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  apples;  make  an- 
other layer  of  bread  over  the  apples,  bake  an  hour,  and 
serve  with  sweet  cream. 

Br ead-and- Butter  Pudding  (Courlande  receipt). — Take 
thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  them  thickly  with  butter; 
butter  a  baking-dish  well,  place  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of 
bread,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  sugar,  cover  thickly  with 
currants,  stoned,  and  proceed  with  alternate  layers  of 
bread  and  raisins,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  quite  full ;  then 
in  nine  eggs  stir  a  quart  of  cream,  and  pour  it  over  the 
pudding  ;  let  it  soak  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  bak- 
ing, and  serve  with  fruit  or  cream  sauce. 

Lemon  Bubbert  (Courlande  receipt).  —  Boil  one  large 
lemon  till  it  is  tender  enough  for  a  straw  to  pierce,  squeeze 
out  the  juice,  grate  the  rind  in  a  dish,  and  stir  till  it  be- 
comes of  the  consistency  of  butter ;  then  add  five  ounces 
of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of  carda- 
mom, and  stir  for  an  hour ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  ei^ht 


358  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  quickly  to  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients, pour  this  into  a  buttered  form,  and  cook  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  can  be 
eaten  with  wine  sauce  or  without,  as  preferred. 

Boiled  Pudding  (Livonian  receipt).  —  In  a  quart  of 
sweet  milk  stir  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  and  twelve 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  beat  till  thoroughly  mixed  ;  then  add 
a  handful  of  almonds,  several  bitter  ones  (blanched),  a 
cupful  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  sugar 
to  sweeten  well,  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon ;  tie  up 
in  a  pudding-cloth  previously  soaked  in  butter  and  well 
sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  and  cook  steadily  for  two 
hours. 

Cherry  Pudding  (Keceipt  of  Riga). — Cook  in  a  pint 
of  cream  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  until  thick;  let 
it  cool ;  when  cold  add  eight  eggs,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon, 
several  cloves,  a  pound  of  cherries,  lemon  peel,  and  sugar 
to  sweeten  well ;  grate  the  crust  from  four  French  rolls, 
which  cut  into  dice  ;  pour  over  these  enough  milk  to  wet 
through,  and  when  soaked  squeeze  through  a  towel ;  mix 
this  bread  thoroughly  with  the  foregoing  ingredients,  add 
the  whites  of  the  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  in 
a  buttered  mould  strewed  with  bread  crumbs,  and  cook  for 
an  hour  in  an  even  oven. 

Sauce. — Cook  a  pound  of  stoned  cherries  till  soft ;  add 
a  glassful  and  a  half  of  red  wine,  a  little  lemon  juice,  cloves, 
some  grated  crackers,  and  sugar  to  sweeten  well ;  pour 
over  the  pudding,  and  serve  hot. 

George  Pudding.— Boil  very  tender  a  handful  of  whole 
rice  in  a  quart  of  milk  with  a  little  lemon  peel ;  mix  with 
this  twelve  apples,  peeled,  cored,  sliced,  and  boiled  to  a 
pulp,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  ounces  of 
candied  orange  peel  and  citron  peel  cut  fine,  one  glassful 
of  white  wTine,  sugar  to  taste,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 


PUDDINGS.  359 

beaten  to  the  stiffest  possible  froth,  added  at  the  last ;  line 
a  deep  dish  or  mould  with  family  pie  crust  ("  Puff  Paste"), 
pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  to  a  light 
brown  ;  turn  it  out  of  the  mould,  and  serve  it  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  poured  over  it.  It  should  be  placed  on  the 
dish  bottom  upward. 

Sauce. — Two  glassf uls  of  white  wine ;  one  tablespoonf ul 
of  sifted  white  sugar;  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ; 
a  bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut.  Simmer  without  boil- 
ing, and  pour  to  and  from  the  saucepan  until  it  is  of  the 
proper  thickness;  serve  at  once. 

Half-hour  Pudding. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk  ;  fonr 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost; 
five  tablespoonf  uls  of  sifted  flour ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  as  usual,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  mould  twenty 
minutes  ;  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Batter  Pudding. — Four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately  to  the  utmost;  one  and  a  half  pints  of  sweet 
milk ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  bat- 
ter the  thickness  of  rich  cream. 

Mix  as  usual,  and  bake  until  done  ;  serve  with  wine 
sauce.  If  properly  made  and  baked,  batter  pudding  should 
be  very  light. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding.— One  quart  of  sweet  milk ; 
four  handf uls  of  Indian  meal,  sifted ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cinnamon  ;  three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  suet,  freed  from 
strings  and  chopped  to  powder ;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  > 
one  egg,  well  beaten. 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  stir 
in  the  other  ingredients  ;  when  well  mixed  pour  into  a 
buttered  mould,  and  bake  an  hour. 

Bread  Pudding. — Two  cupfuls  of  dry,  finely  rolled 
stale  bread  crumbs;   four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 


360  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

separately ;  one  quart  of  rich  milk ;  two  tablespoonfols 
of  melted  butter;  nutmeg  to  taste;  one  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk  ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  butter,  seasoning,  and  soda,  and,  lastly,  the  whites; 
bake  to  a  fine  brown,  and  eat  hot  with  pudding  sauce. 
This  pudding  is  equally  good  boiled. 

Fruit  Bread  Pudding. — Take  slips  of  stale  white  bread 
cut  like  finger  biscuits,  and  line  your  mould  with  them, 
pressing  them  closely  so  that  they  may  adhere  well  to  the 
mould.  When  this  is  done,  fill  the  mould  with  alternate 
layers  of  stewed  fruit  (damsons  are  the  best  fruit  for  this 
purpose),  and  very  thin  slices  *of  bread  ;  the  bread  should 
be  buttered,  and  dusted  with  powdered  sugar,  and  the 
layers  of  fruit  should  be  fully  an  inch  thick  ;  when  the 
mould  is  quite  full,  press  down  the  pudding  with  a  plate, 
and  put  a  weight  on  the  top  of  the  plate.  It  should  be 
made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  and  should  be  served 
with  clotted  cream  poured  over  it. 

Sponge-  Cake  Pudding. — Take  six  or  eight  small  round 
sponge  cakes,  and  as  many  macaroons;  split  and  seed 
some  large  raisins,  and  stick  them  on  the  inside  of  a  well- 
buttered  mould  ;  put  in  the  cake,  and  pour  over  it  a 
wineglassful  of  sherry,  cognac,  or  curacoa;  blanch  and 
pound  some  sweet  almonds,  and  sprinkle  them  over  the 
cakes ;  fill  up  the  mould  with  cold  custard,  and  steam  one 
hour ;  turn  out  of  the  mould,  and  serve. 

Brown  Betty. — One  cupful  of  bread  crumbs;  two  cup- 
fuls  of  chopped  apples  (sour  apples  are  best)  ;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar;  one  cupful  of  Sultana  raisins,  stoned  and 
chopped  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  cut  into  small  bits. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  chopped  apples 
and  raisins  at  the  bottom  ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits 


PUDDINGS.  361 

of  butter,  and  bread  crumbs ;  proceed  in  this  order  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  a  thick  layer  of  bread  crumbs  at 
the  top  ;  cover  closely,  and  steam  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven ;  then  uncover,  and  brown 
quickly ;  serve  in  the  dish  in  -which  it  is  baked.  This  is 
good  hot  or  cold ;  eat  with  sweet  sauce,  or  old  Humphrey's 
aigre  doux  sauce. 

Apple-and-Plum  Pudding. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  fine  tart  apples,  pared  and  chopped  ;  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sifted 
flour;  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  rubbed  fine;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped;  six 
eggs;  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg;  one  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  cloves ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  half  a  wine- 
glassful  of  brown  sherry,  and  the  same  of  brandy. 

Stir  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar  very  light ;  add  the 
suet,  apples,  and  spice  ;  then  the  raisins,  well  dredged  with 
flour;  then  the  flour  and  liquor;  lastly,  the  whites  beaten 
very  stiff.  Bake  in  two  buttered  moulds  in  a  moderate 
oven  an  hour  and  a  half  at  least;  eat  hot  with  sauce- 
This  pudding  is  equally  good  boiled. 

Apple-and- Tapioca  Pudding. — One  teacupful  of  tapi- 
oca ;  six  apples,  pared  and  cored  ;  the  apples  should  be 
sound  and  savory;  one  quart  of  water;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt. 

Cover  the  tapioca  with  three  cupf  uls  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  set  in  a  tolerably  wrarm  place  to  soak  for  Ave  or  six 
hours,  stirring  now  and  then ;  pack  the  apples  in  a  deep 
earthen  dish,  adding  a  cupful  of  lukewarm  water ;  cover 
closely,  and  steam  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  soft, 
turning  them  occasionally  that  they  may  cook  on  all  sides ; 
then  turn  out  the  liquid  in  the  dish ;  fill  up  the  centre  of 
each  apple  with  loaf  sugar ;  stick  a  piece  of  lemon  peel 
and  a  clove  in  each ;  pour  over  the  tapioca,  and  bake  one 
hour ;  eat  warm  or  cold  with  the  sauce  you  prefer. 

16 


362  THE   UNlilVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — One  quart  of  flour;  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  butter ;  two 
cupfuls  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  into  the 
dry  flour ;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  cream  of  tartar ;  chop  in  the 
shortening;  put  in  the  soda,  and  moisten  quickly,  just  stiff 
enough  to  roll  into  a  paste  less  than  half  an  inch  thick; 
cut  into  squares,  and  lay  in  the  centre  of  each  a  juicy,  tart 
apple,  pared  and  cored ;  bring  the  corners  of  the  square 
neatly  together,  and  pinch  them  slightly;  lay  in  a  buttered 
baking-pan,  the  pinched  edges  downward,  and  bake  to  a 
fine  brown  ;  when  done,  brush  over  with  beaten  white  of 
eggs,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  two  or  three  minutes ; 
sift  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  eat  hot,  with  rich, 
sweet  sauce. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings,  or  any  other  Fruit  Dump- 
lings.— One  quart  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  and  the  same  of  butter ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  sifted  through  the  flour;  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt;  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  or  enough  to  make  the 
flour  into  soft  dough ;  one  quart  of  chopped  apples,  sliced 
peaches,  stewed  dried  peaches,  cherries,  stoned  plums, 
raspberries,  or  any  other  berries,  or  jam,  preserves,  or 
canned  fruit. 

Roll  out  the  crust  less  than  half  an  inch  thick,  into  an 
oblong  sheet ;  cover  thickly  with  the  fruit,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar ;  roll  up  closely,  leaving  the  fruit  inside ;  pinch 
the  ends  of  the  folded  roll  together,  and  baste  up  in  a  bag, 
which  should  previously  have  been  dipped  into  boiling 
water,  wrung  out,  and  floured  inside ;  boil  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings,  Small. — Make  a  paste  as 
above,  cut  into  squares,  put  into  the  centre  of  each  an 


PUDDINGS.  363 

apple ;  tie  up  each  dumpling  in  a  little  bag,  which  bag 
should  be  dipped  in  boiling  water,  wrung  out,  and  floured 
inside ;  boil  one  hour. 

Boiled  Suet  Dumplings. — Two  cupfuls  of  finely  rolled 
bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk;  one  cupful  of  beef  suet, 
freed  from  strings  and  powdered ;  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  and  very  light ;  one  tablespoonf ul 
of  sugar ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  into 
the  flour ;  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling 
water ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  enough  milk  to  mix  into 
a  stiff  paste ;  make  into  large  balls  with  floured  hands ; 
put  into  dumpling-cloths  dipped  into  hot  water  and 
floured  inside ;  leave  room  to  swell,  and  tie  the  strings 
very  tightly  ;  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  hot 
with  a  good  sauce. 

Pice  Dumplings. — One  pound  of  rice  boiled,  without 
stirring,  until  soft ;  twelve  apples,  pared  and  cored ;  cur- 
rant or  any  other  tart  jelly. 

Let  the  rice  cool  and  dry  upon  a  sieve ;  dip  the  dump- 
ling-cloths in  hot  water,  wring  out  and  flour  ;  put  a  hand- 
ful of  the  cold  rice  upon  each,  spreading  it  out  into  a 
smooth  sheet ;  lay  in  the  centre  an  apple,  fill  the  hole  left 
by  the  core  with  some  tart  jelly,  draw  up  the  cloth  care- 
fully to  enclose  the  apple  with  a  coating  of  rice ;  tie,  and 
boil  one  hour ;  turn  out  with  care,  and  eat  with  sweet- 
ened cream. 

Duff  Plum  Pudding. — Six  ounces  of  finest  white  flour, 
sifted;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  four  ounces 
of  chopped  suet ;  four  ounces  of  sugar ;  four  ounces  of 
well-washed  currants,  or  raisins,  stoned ;  half  a  pint  of 
milk ;  one  egg. 

Mix  all  well  and  smoothly  together,  put  into  a  greased 
and  floured  bag,  and  steam  three  hours ;  use  sauce  to  taste. 


364  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Plum  Pudding,  Poor  Marts. — Half  a  pound  of  finest 
white  flour,  sifted  ;  four  ounces  of  raisins,  stoned  and 
chopped ;  four  ounces  of  currants,  well  washed ;  four 
ounces  of  chopped  suet ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molas- 
ses ;  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  spice ;  one  gill  of  cold 
water. 

Mix  smoothly  together,  put  into  a  greased  and  floured 
mould,  and  steam  until  you  are  ready  to  put  on  the 
table. 

Centennial  Pudding. — One  short  pint  of  grated  bread 
crumbs ;  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  ;  sugar  to  taste  ;  yolks 
of  five  eggs  well  beaten ;  vanilla  or  bitter-almond  flavor- 
ing. 

Pour  the  boiling  milk  over  the  bread  crumbs,  and  let  it 
stand  for  an  hour ;  then  beat  smooth,  and  add  the  sugar, 
then  the  beaten  yolks,  and  the  flavoring ;  bake  in  a  round 
baking-dish  in  a  quick  oven,  but  not  hot  enough  to  brown 
it ;  when  cold,  spread  over  it  a  thick  layer  of  jelly  or 
jam  ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  sugar,  as  for  icing, 
and  spread  thickly  on  top  of  the  jelly ;  set  in  the  oven  to 
harden  ;  eat  cold. 

Transparent  Pudding. — Half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
warmed,  but  not  melted  ;  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar 
mixed  with  the  butter ;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  eight 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  to  the  ut- 
most. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  light,  and  then  add  the  nut- 
meg and  the  beaten  eggs,  which  should  be  stirred  in 
gradually;  flavor  with  vanilla,  almond,  peach,  or  rose 
water;  stir  hard;  butter  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  half  an 
hour;  eat  cold. 

Crystal  Palace  Pudding.  —  One  large  teaspoonful  of 
corn-flour,  mixed  smooth  with  half  a  teacupful  of  new 
milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  sugar  to  taste,  flavoring  to  taste, 


PUDDINGS.  365 

and  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  steeped  in  half  a  teacupful 
of  milk  for  some  hours ;  boil  ten  minutes  over  the  fire,  stir- 
ring one  way ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  quickly  two  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  stir  till  nearly  cold  ;  pour  into  moulds. 

Treacle  Pudding. — Half  a  pound  of  flour;  one  ounce 
of  suet,  finely  chopped ;  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  treacle 
sugar-house  molasses  ;  one  pinch  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  ginger  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Mix  smoothly,  cover  with  greased  paper,  and  steam 
three  hours,  taking  care  that  it  never  stops  cooking. 

Eve's  Pudding. — One  heaping  cupful  of  fine,  dry  bread 
crumbs  ;  half  a  pound  of  pared  and  chopped  apples  ;  half 
a  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  six  ounces 
of  currants,  washed  and  dried  ;  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately  to  the  utmost ;  one  teaspoonful  of  grat- 
ed nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  allspice  ;  one  wineglassful  of 
brandy  ;  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  to  powder. 

Work  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  suet  and 
bread  crumbs  with  the  chopped  apples,  next  the  brandy 
and  spice,  then  the  whipped  whites,  and,  lastly,  the  fruit 
well  dredged  with  flour ;  boil  in  a  buttered  bowl  or  mould 
three  hours  ;  eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Fruit  Pyramid. — Make  some  good,  light  crust,  roll  out 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  graduated  rounds ; 
i.  e.,  the  bottom  round  the  size  of  a  tea-plate,  the  top  or 
sixth  round  not  more  than  three  inches  across,  the  other 
rounds  graduated  in  proportion  ;  spread  the  bottom  round 
with  stoned  cherries  or  other  fruit,  and  sprinkle  with  sug- 
ar ;  place  a  smaller  round  of  paste  on  this,  and  proceed 
as  before  to  cover  with  fruit  and  sugar,  being  careful,  as 
you  build  up,  to  fold  the  margins  of  paste  over  the  fruit 
in  such  a  way  as  to  weld  each  layer  of  paste  to  the  one 
above  it ;  have  ready  a  conical  cap  of  stout  muslin  adapt- 


366  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ed  to  the  height  and  width  of  your  pyramid,  dip  the  bag 
in  boiling  water,  wring  out,  flour  inside,  and  draw  gently 
over  all.  It  should  be  large  enough  to  meet  and  tie  under 
the  base  without  cramping  the  pyramid.  Boil  two  hours, 
and  eat  with  sweet  sauce. 

Or,  this  can  be  boiled  in  a  mould  shaped  like  an  Egyp- 
tian pyramid. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. — One  pint  of  milk ;  two  eggs  ; 
enough  sifted  flour  for  a  thick  batter ;  one  gill  of  baker's 
yeast ;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  boiling  water ;  nearly  a  quart  of  berries  well 
dredged  with  flour. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milkj  flour,  yeast,  salt,  and  soda, 
and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  four  hours ;  when 
you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly 
and  lightly ;  boil  in  a  floured  cloth  for  two  hours ;  eat  hot 
with  hard  sauce. 

Hasty  Pudding. — Have  some  boiling  water  in  a  pot, 
salt  it,  and  stir  in  Indian  meal,  a  little  at  a  time ;  when 
the  water  is  all  in  stir  it,  set  it  on  the  top  of  the  stove, 
and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours;  when  taken  out  it 
should  be  so  soft  that  it  will  in  a  few  minutes  settle  down 
smoothly  in  the  dish ;  when  perfectly  cold  turn  it  out  on 
the  moulding-board,  and  dredge  with  wheaten  flour  until 
you  can  roll  it  out ;  cut  into  cakes  a  little  less  than  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  dripping. 

Indian  Meal  Pudding,  Fried. — One  pint  of  white  Ind- 
ian meal ;  one  spoonful  of  sugar ;  enough  boiling  water  to 
moisten  it. 

Make  up  into  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  a  very  little  boiling 
lard  ;  split,  butter,  and  serve. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — One  quart  of  Indian  meal, 
sifted  ;  one  quart  of  rich,  sweet  milk ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound 


PUDDINGS.  367 

of  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  powdered  ;  one  tea- 
spoonf  al  of  salt ;  three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  while  boiling-hot  stir  in  the  meal, 
salt,  and  suet ;  when  cold  add  the  yolks  beaten  with  the 
sugar,  then  the  whites  ;  dip  the  pudding-bag  in  hot  water, 
wring  out,  flour  it,  and  fill  half  full  with  the  mixture,  as  it 
will  swell ;  eat  very  hot,  with  butter  and  brown  sugar. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding,  William  PenrCs. — One  pint 
of  sour  milk  ;  two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal ;  one  cupful  of 
flour ;  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  one  dessertspoonful  of  soda. 

Mix  all  together  smoothly ;  then  take  a  three-quart  pan 
with  a  light  cover,  grease  it,  pour  in  a  little  batter,  then 
some  fruit  or  jam  (raspberry  is  best),  then  more  batter, 
and  so  on ;  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  two 
hours. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  Virginia. — One  teacupful  of 
Indian  meal  mixed  with  warm  water ;  one  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  melted  butter ;  four  eggs  beaten  light ;  brown 
sugar  to  taste ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  molasses ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  brandy  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon ;  a  little  finely  chopped  orange  peel ;  a  few  cur- 
rants. 

Bake  in  a  shallow  earthen  dish  for  one  hour.  This 
quantity  is  enough  for  two  dishes,  as  it  should  not  be  more 
than  an  inch  in  depth. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  New  York.  —  One  quart  of 
milk ;  six  tablespoonf  uls  of  Indian  meal  thickened  with  a 
little  milk ;  one  cupful  of  molasses;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Boil  the  milk;  add  the  Indian  meal;  when  it  thickens 
pour  it  into  a  deep  dish,  adding  the  molasses  and  the  salt; 
before  you  put  it  into  the  oven  add  one  pint  more  of  cold 
milk,  but  do  not  stir  it ;  bake  four  hours. 


368  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  Pennsylvania. — One  pint  of 
Indian  meal,  sifted ;  one  pint  of  boiling  milk ;  one  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  one  cupful  of  butter ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  wheat  flour ;  four  dessertspoonfuls  of  molasses;  four 
dessertspoonfuls  of  sugar ;  five  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one 
wineglassful  of  brandy  ;  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Scald  the  meal  in  the  water  ;  then  add  the  milk  and  the 
other  ingredients  in  order ;  bake  an  hour. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  Boston — Boil  a  quart  of  milk, 
stir  in  three  gills  of  Indian  meal,  next  stir  in  half  a  pint 
of  molasses,  and  let  all  cool ;  butter  a  deep  earthen  dish, 
put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  suet,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  turn  in  the  pudding,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  ground  ginger,  and  stir  hard ;  bake  five  hours.  When 
baked  in  a  brick  oven,  it  should,  be  left  in  it  overnight. 

Lemon  Pudding,  No.  1. — The  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
two  lemons ;  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  fine  white  flour ;  a  little  cardamom  ;  sugar  to  taste ; 
grated  nutmeg. 

Mix  well  and  set  on  the  fire  ;  when  thoroughly  warmed 
through,  take  off  the  fire  and  beat  till  cold ;  add  the  whites 
of  twelve  eggs  well  beaten,  and  when  in  the  oven  spread 
them  oxer  the  top. 

Lemon  Pudding,  No.  2. — The  peels  of  two  large  lemons 
grated  on  sugar;  half  a  pound  of  butter;  the  juice  of  one 
large  lemon  ;  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs ;  the  whites  of  five  eggs. 

Beat  all  together,  and,  lining  a  deep  pudding-dish  with 
puff  paste,  bake  the  lemon  pudding  in  it ;  while  baking, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  remaining  ia.ve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
whip  in  fine  white  sugar  to  taste,  cover  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding (when  baked)  with  the  meringue,  and  return  to  the 
oven  for  a  moment  to  brown  ;  eat  cold. 

Lemon  Pudding,  No.  3. — One  cupful  of  sugar;  four 


PUDDINGS.  369 

eggs;  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  corn-starch  moistened  with  cold 
water ;  two  lemons,  the  juice  of  both,  and  rind  of  one ; 
one  pint  of  milk  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch  ; 
boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  while  hot  add  the 
butter,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  beat  the  eggs  light,  and  add 
the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  rind  ;  beat  to  a  cream,  add  to 
the  milk  when  cold,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish. 

Long  Branch  Pudding. — Two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ; 
half  a  cupful  of  molasses;  half  a  tumblerful  of  water; 
a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  butter  ;  one  small  teaspoonf ul  of 
soda ;  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
mixed. 

Beat  it  well,  and  stir  in  last  of  all  a  quart  of  fresh  fruit, 
either  blackberries,  whortleberries,  raspberries,  or  stoned 
cherries ;  if  cherries  are  used,  omit  the  spice ;  boil  for  two 
hours  in  a  bag,  and  serve  hot,  wTith  wine  sauce  or  hard 
sauce. 

Corn-starch  Meringue  Pudding. — Four  teaspoonfuls  of 
corn-starch ;  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separate- 
ly; three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar;  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk ;  half  a  cupful  of  preserve  or  fruit 
jelly.  _ 

Moisten  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  then  stir 
it  into  the  boiling  milk;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  while  hot  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  up  with  sugar,  and  floured ;  pour 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  ; 
then  spread  with  a  layer  of  preserve,  and  upon  that  the 
whites,  which  must  have  been  beaten  up  stiffly  with  a  little 
sugar ;  bake  five  minutes  covered,  then  brown,  and  serve 
hot  or  cold,  as.  you  prefer. 

Orange- Marmalade  Pudding. —  One  cupful  of  fine 
rolled  bread  crumbs;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful 

16* 


370  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  milk  or  cream  ;  four  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks 
separately ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of  butter ;  one  cupful  of 
orange  marmalade. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  yolks,  milk, 
bread  crumbs,  and  whites ;  put  a  layer  of  this  in  a  well- 
buttered  mould ;  spread  thickly  with  marmalade  ;  then  put 
in  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish 
is  full,  having  the  custard  mixture  at  the  top ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  an  hour ;  turn  out  of  the  mould  on  a  dish, 
and  serve  with  cream,  or  aigre  doux  sauce. 

Macaroni  or  Vermicelli  Pudding. — One  cupful  of 
macaroni  or  vermicelli,  broken  into  inch  lengths;  one 
quart  of  milk;  four  eggs;  half  a  lemon,  juice,  and  grated 
rind ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  three  quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  sugar. 

Simmer  the  macaroni  in  half  the  milk  until  tender ; 
while  hot,  stir  in  the  butter,  yolks  well  beaten  up  with 
the  sugar,  the  lemon,  and,  lastly,  the  whipped  whites; 
bake  in  a  buttered  mould  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicely 
browned. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — One  cupful  of  tapioca ;  one  quart 
of  milk ;  iive  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  melted ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  for 
two  hours  ;  drain  off  the  water  ;  soak  two  hours  longer  in 
warm  milk ;  then,  when  the  sugar  and  butter  are  beaten 
to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks,  milk,  and  tapioca;  last  of  all 
the  beaten  whites ;  stir  long  and  well,  and  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish ;  eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Neapolitan  Pudding. — One  large  cupful  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  soaked  in  milk;  three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar;  one  lemon,  juice,  and  grated  rind;  six  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately  ;  half  a  pound  of  stale  sponge 


PUDDINGS.  371 

cake ;  half  a  pound  of  almond  macaroons ;  half  a  cupful 
of  jelly  or  jam;  one  wineglassfnl  of  sherry;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  milk,  poured  on  the  bread  crumbs ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  beaten 
yolks,  the  soaked  bread  crumbs,  lemon,  and  rind  ;  beat  to 
a  smooth,  light  paste,  and  then  add  the  beaten  whites; 
butter  your  mould  very  well,  put  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of 
light  bread  crumbs,  then  one  of  macaroons ;  wet  with  the 
wine ;  cover  with  a  layer  of  custard,  then  of  sponge  cake, 
then  jam,  then  macaroons  again,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish 
is  full ;  cover  closely  ;  steam  in  the  oven  three  quarters  of 
an  hour;  uncover  and  brown ;  turn  out  carefully,  and  eat 
with  currant-jelly  sauce. 

Baked  Orange  Pudding. — The  rind  of  one  orange, 
powdered  finely  with  a  pestle  and  mortar ;  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  white  sugar ;  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Beat  all  together  in  a  basin  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  put  in  slowly,  and  stirring  gently  all  the  time,  the 
whites  (which  must  previously  have  been  beaten  to  the 
stiffest  froth) ;  when  all  is  smoothly  mixed  together,  pour 
into  a  buttered  mould ;  bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  very 
hot  oven,  and  serve  immediately. 

Cabinet  Pudding  a  VAnglaise. — Line  a  well-buttered 
mould  with  seeded  Sultanas  or  dried  cherries ;  then  with 
slices  of  French  roll ;  next  put  a  layer  of  lady  -  fingers 
and  macaroons;  then  bread  again,  sprinkling  over  it  at 
times  two  liqueurglassfuls  of  brandy  (one  will  be  suf- 
ficient for  a  small  pudding) ;  beat  up  four  or  five  eggs 
with  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  sweeten  it  to  taste,  and  add 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  finely  grated ;  fill 
up  the  mould  with  this  mixture,  and  boil  one  hour  and  a 
half. 


372  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

One-Pound  Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  beef  suet; 
half  a  pound  of  finest  white  flour,  sifted ;  half  a  pound  of 
bread  crumbs  rolled  and  passed  through  a  colander;  one 
pound  of  sugar;  one  pound  of  currants,  picked,  washed, 
and  dredged  ;  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  ; 
half  a  pound  of  candied  peel ;  rind  of  one  lemon,  grated  ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  spice ;  one  tiny  pinch  of  salt ;  eight 
eggs ;  one  wineglassf ul  of  brandy ;  enough  milk  to  mix 
it  (about  a  pint). 

Chop  the  suet  well,  and  then  roll  it  smooth,  and  mix  it. 
with  the  flour;  next  add  the  bread  crumbs,  then  the  cur- 
rants, sugar,  raisins,  salt,  candied  peel,  and  spice ;  then  the 
eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  to  their  utmost  capacity, 
yolks  and  whites  separately,  aud  the  milk ;  stir  steadily 
and  long,  until  the  batter  is  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  pour 
into  a  buttered  tin  mould,  cover  closely,  and  tie  a  cloth 
round  it  to  prevent  the  cover  from  budging;  when  the 
water  boils  furiously  put  the  pudding  into  the  pot,  and  let 
it  boil  steadily  for  six  or  seven  hours,  adding  boiling  water 
as  it  boils  away.  This  pudding  may  be  served  either  with 
egg  sauce,  or  hard  sauce;  it  should  have  brandy  poured 
round  it  and  lighted,  and  a  sprig  of  holly  stuck  in  the 
middle. 

Poor-Man's  Pice  Pudding,  No.  1. — Butter  a  deep  earth- 
enware dish,  and  pour  into  it  one  quart  of  the  best  fresh 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  raw  rice,  sugar  to  taste,  a 
piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  stick  of  cinna- 
mon, and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel ;  simmer  three  hours  in  a 
good  oven  ;  eat  ice  cold. 

Poor- Marts  Rice  Pudding,  No.  2. — Two  quarts  of 
milk;  one  teacupful  of  rice;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  best 
brown  sugar ;  one  small  stick  of  cinnamon  ;  dried  peel  of 
half  an  orange. 

Put  into  an  oven,  and  bake  slowly  from  two  and  a  half 
to  three  hours. 


puddings:  373 

Beetorts  Unrivalled  Plum  Pudding. — One  and  a  half 
pounds  of  Muscatel  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  up  ;  one  pound 
of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  up  ;  two  pounds  of  rolled 
bread  crumbs ;  two  pounds  of  finest  moist,  sugar ;  two 
pounds  of  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  powdered ;  six 
ounces  of  mixed  candied  peel ;  grated  rind  of  two  lemons ; 
one  ounce  of  ground  nutmeg ;  one  ounce  of  ground  cinna- 
mon ;  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  bitter  almonds ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  the  best  brandy  ;  sixteen  eggs  well  beaten. 

Stone  and  cut  up  the  raisins ;  wash,  dry,  and  dredge 
the  currants;  cut  the  candied  peel  into  the  thinnest  pos- 
sible slices ;  sift  the  sugar,  and  beat  the  eggs  well ;  mix  all 
the  dry  ingredients  well  and  thoroughly  together,  then 
add  little  by  little  the  beaten  eggs  and  the  brandy.  When 
all  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed  together,  beat  long  and 
hard ;  then  well  butter  and  flour  a  stout  new  pudding- 
cloth,  put  the  pudding  in,  tie  it  closely,  and  boil  from  six 
to  eight  hours ;  stick  a  sprig  of  holly  in  the  middle  when 
you  serve  it ;  dot  it  thickly  with  blanched  almonds,  and 
serve  with  brandy  on  fire. 

William  Pernios  Plum  Pudding. — Yolks  of  twelve 
eggs,  and  whites  of  six,  beaten  separately  and  well;  one 
pound  of  best  Sultana  raisins,  stoned  ;  one  pound  of  best 
currants,  picked,  washed,  dried,  and  rubbed  on  a  towel; 
one  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  and  shredded  ;  one  pound 
of  flour,  sifted  ;  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  grated  ;  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  citron,  snipped  very  fine ;  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated  ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  powdered  ginger ;  half  a  pint 
of  rich,  fresh  cream ;  one  wineglassful  of  the  best  brandy; 
one  wineglassful  of  rose  water. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  fruit ;  stir  in  the  whipped  eggs ; 
add  the  cream,  spices,  citron,  and  suet ;  then  the  sugar, 
brandy,  and  rose  water ;  beat  well  all  the  time  it  is  being 
mixed,  then  tie  tight  in  a  pudding-bag  well  dusted  with 
flour;  let  it  boil  for  six  hours,  turning  it  in  the  pot  from 
time  to  time;  when   done,  plunge  for  a  second  in   cold 


374  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

water  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  bag.     Admirable,  and 
will  keep  for  weeks. 

Plain  Plum  P%idding. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
milk ;  one  cupful  of  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  chopped 
to  powder ;  four  scant  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  one  pinch 
of  salt ;  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  molasses ;  one  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  soda ;  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  raisins,  seeded  and 
dredged ;  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  currants,  picked,  washed, 
and  dregded ;  half  a  cupful  of  finely  snipped  candied 
orange  peel ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  ground  cloves ;  one  grated 
nutmeg. 

Mix  as  usual,  and  boil  four  hours. 

Half -hour  Pudding.  —  Half  a  pound  of  beef  suet, 
shredded  finely  and  chopped  to  powder ;  half  a  pound  of 
grated  and  browned  bread  crumbs ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour ;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  ; 
three  eggs  beaten  light. 

Mix  as  usual,  and,  after  flouring  your  hands,  form  the 
pudding  into  large  round  balls,  tie  each  in  a  cup,  then  in 
a  floured  cloth;  boil  half  an  hour,  and  serve  with  wine 
sauce. 

Queens  Pudding. — One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  white 
sugar,  powdered  ;  three  cupfuls  of  fine  dry  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  sweet  cream;  five  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  vanilla,  or  rose  water,  or  bitter-almond  seasoning; 
one  quart  of  fresh,  rich  milk ;  one  cupful  of  preserve. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  the  yolks  light,  and 
stir  to  a  cream ;  then  add  the  soaked  bread  crumbs ;  pour 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  ;  when  the  pudding 
is  "  set,"  spread  with  preserve,  and  then  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  up  with  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar. 

Cheap  Suet  Bolyjpoly. — One  pound  of  fine  white  flour; 


PUDDINGS.  375 

two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-pow- 
der; two  ounces  of  sweet  beef  drippings;  two  gills  of 
milk;  two  gills  of  water;  one  egg. 

Sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking-powder  together;  rub  in  the 
drippings,  milk,  water,  and  egg;  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick; 
spread  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  suet,  one 
pinch  of  salt,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
spice  or  nutmeg  to  taste ;  roll  up,  tie  tightly  in  a  floured 
cloth,  and  boil  steadily  for  two  hours  in  a  large  covered 
pot  half -full  of  water. 

Molasses  Bolypoly. — Make  up  as  "  Suet  Kolypoly,"  using 
half  a  pint  of  molasses  instead  of  the  suet. 

Currant  Polypoly. — Make  up  as  "  Suet  Roly  poly,"  using 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  washed  and  dried  currants  with 
the  suet. 

Shelf  or  d  Plodding. — Half  a  pound  of  suet,  freed  from 
shreds,  and  chopped  to  powder;  one  pound  of  flour,  sift- 
ed ;  six  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately ; 
one  ounce  of  candied  lemon  peel,  chopped  fine ;  one  pinch 
of  salt ;  one  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  one 
pint  of  warm  milk. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  pour  into  a  mel- 
on-shape form,  cover,  and  boil  six  hours. 

Plain  Suet  Pudding. — One  coffeecupful  of  suet,  freed 
from  shreds,  and  chopped  to  a  fine  powder;  three  coffee- 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  one  coffeecupful  of  raisins,  seed- 
ed and  chopped ;  one  coffeecupful  of  molasses ;  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  warm ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  milk  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

This  pudding  should  boil  from  four  and  a  half  to  five 
hours.  If  boiled  in  a  bag,  allow  very  little  room  for  swell- 
ing; serve  with  Edinburgh  sauce,  which  is  composed  of 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter  beat- 


376  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

en  to  a  cream,  half  a  pint  of  brown  sherry  heated  to  boil- 
ing, and  two  eggs  well  beaten ;  add  the  eggs  to  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  then  the  wine,  put  the  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  and  stir  steadily. 

Plain  Treacle  Pudding. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sifted  flour;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  freed  from 
strings  and  powdered ;  half  a  pound  of  black  treacle  or 
molasses  ;  one  egg.  well  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  bak- 
ing-powder; one  teaspoonf  ul  of  ground  ginger;  four  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  milk. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  the  baking-powder  and 
ginger,  mix  well,  then  add  the  suet,  pour  the  treacle  into 
the  middle  of  the  flour,  and  add  the  beaten  egg  and  milk ; 
stir  all  quickly  to  a  smooth,  soft  paste,  put  into  a  greased 
mould,  and  cover  with  a  piece  of  greased  paper ;  set  the 
mould  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water — the  water  should  reach 
to  about  an  inch  from  the  top  of  the  mould — and  watch 
closely  to  see  that  the  water  does  not  boil  into  the  pud- 
ding. 

Poor- Maris  Fruit  Pudding. — Four  ounces  of  rolled 
bread  crumbs;  eight  ounces  of  sifted  flour;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet ;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ; 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and 
dredged  ;  two  ounces  of  citron  ;  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon  ;  half  a  pound  of  treacle ;  one  egg,  well  beaten  ; 
enough  milk  to  bind  all  together ;  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  allspice. 

Mix  as  usual,  pour  into  two  buttered  moulds,  of  equal 
size,  and  steam  or  boil  each  for  two  hours. 

Sir  Watkyn  Wynnes  Pudding. — Four  ounces  of  ground 
rice  ;  half  a  pound  of  suet ;  half  a  pound  of  browned  bread 
crumbs;  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs;  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange  marmalade. 


PUDDINGS.  377 

Shred  the  suet  into  the  finest  possible  strips,  and  mix 
it  thoroughly  with  the  flour  and  bread ;  then  add  the 
yolks,  which  should  previously  have  been  beaten  very 
light ;  then  the  whites,  which  must  be  previously  beaten 
as  light  as  possible;  then,  drop  by  drop,  the  marmalade; 
then  beat  all  well  together,  put  into  a  buttered  mould 
which  will  hold  a  quart,  taking  care  not  to  press  it  too 
tightly  ;  let  it  boil  four  hours  ;  serve  with  butter  sauce. 

Farina  Pudding. — Put  two  ounces  of  Hecker's  farina 
into  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  let  both 
boil  up  together ;  when  done  enough,  stir  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  five  eggs 
(omitting  the  whites  of  two),  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  grated, 
a  little  orange-flower  water,  and  some  small  slices  of  cit- 
ron ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  adding  the 
whites  last  of  all;  when  mixed,  beat  hard  and  long,  then 
bake  in  small  cups,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Iced  Almond  Pudding  a  la  Pusse. — Half  a  quart  of  al- 
mond milk,  well  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  bitter  al- 
mond ;  two  tumblerf uls  of  whipped  cream ;  six  leaves  of 
gelatine  dissolved  previously  in  water. 

Whip  the  gelatine  into  the  almond  milk,  and  then  add 
the  whipped  cream,  stirring  and  beating  until  you  have  a 
smooth  mass ;  then  pour  into  a  dome-shaped  form  which* 
has  previously  been  placed  on  pounded  ice  and  rock  salt ; 
put  on  the  cover  of  the  form  ;  stop  the  joint  (between  the 
cover  and  the  form)  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  wa- 
ter; cover  with  ice  and  salt ;  in  an  hour's  time  plunge  the 
form  into  warm  water,  dry  quickly,  and  turn  out  the  pud- 
ding on  a  napkin. 

Iced  Apricot  Pudding. — Take  some  fresh,  ripe  apricots, 
peel  and  stone  them,  and  press  through  a  sieve;  sugar 
well,  and  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  several  spoonfuls 
of  almond  milk,  and  seven  or  eight  leaves  of  dissolved  gel- 


378  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

atine ;  strain  carefully,  then  put  a  little  in  a  cup  and  place 
it  on  the  ice  to  judge  of  its  consistency ;  if  it  be  of  the 
proper  consistency  pour  into  a  bowl,  put  the  bowl  into  a 
pan  filled  with  ice,  and  beat  hard  and  long,  until  the  pud- 
ding is  smooth  and  light ;  then  pour  into  a  mould  and  pro- 
ceed as  above. 

Iced  Peach  Pudding. — Proceed  as  above,  omitting  the 
orange  juice,  and  using  rich,  sweet  cream  instead  of  the 
almond  milk  ;  blanch  and  pound  the  peach  kernels,  and 
add  for  flavoring. 

Iced  Pice  Pudding  &  la  Bearnaise. —  Blanch  half  a 
pound  of  rice  for  six  or  seven  minutes ;  then  drain,  put 
into  a  porcelain  -  lined  saucepan,  and  cover  with  milk; 
cook  slowly,  and  when  the  rice  is  tender  and  the  milk 
absorbed,  sweeten  it ;  when  the  sugar  is  melted,  withdraw 
the  saucepan  from  tlie  fire,  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  until 
the  rice  is  cold ;  then  add  half  a  glassful  of  Maraschino, 
and  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  orange  syrup.  Pack  an  ice 
pudding-mould  in  ice  and  salt ;  when  it  has  stood  for  ten 
minutes,  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  preserve; 
cover,  seal,  and  pack  as  usual,  and  leave  for  an  hour. 

Iced  Pice  Pudding  a  VEspagnole. — Pick  about  a  pound 
of  good  rice,  wash  it  carefully,  plunge  into  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  parboil  it ;  then  drain,  put  into  an  earthen  sauce- 
pan, and  finish  cooking  it  with  milk ;  when  tender  take 
from  the  fire,  and  when  almost  cold  sweeten  with  pow- 
dered sugar;  add  half  a  quart  of  orange  syrup,  and  a 
tumblerful  of  rich  cream ;  pour  into  a  mould  packed  on 
ice,  and  stir  for  some  minutes ;  then  cover,  seal,  and  pack 
as  usual.     It  will  be  iced  in  twenty  minutes. 

Iced  Banana  Pudding,  or  Plombiere  du  Cavie. — Three 
cupfuls  of  vanilla  custard,  very  sweet ;  fifteen  ripe  bananas; 
two  cupfuls  of  whipped  cream. 


PUDDINGS.  379 

Peel  and  mash  the  bananas,  and  press  through  a  sieve ; 
stir  in  the  custard,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  pro- 
ceed as  above ;  when  it  has  been  stirred  on  the  ice  for 
some  minutes,  add  the  whipped  cream,  and  a  wineglass- 
f ul  of  Maraschino ;  then  cover,  seal,  and  ice. 

Charlotte  de  Frankfort  Iced  Pudding. — Make  a  little 
clear  jelly,  using  for  the  purpose  either  Coxe's  or  Kelson's 
gelatine ;  clarify,  flavor  with  bitter  almond,  and  sweeten 
it  well ;  while  the  jelly  is  still  warm,  rinse  an  ice  pud- 
ding-mould with  cold  water,  and  pack  it  on  ice  and  salt ; 
when  it  is  freezing-cold  put  a  layer  of  jelly  on  the  bot- 
tom and  sides ;  it  should  be  an  inch  thick ;  then  pack  in 
alternate  layers  of  apricot  marmalade  and  of  lady-fingers 
soaked  in  Maraschino ;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  mould 
is  full ;  cover  closely,  seal  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
cover  with  ice  and  salt,  and  leave  for  an  hour. 

Muscovite  Iced  Pudding. — Take  different  varieties  of 
preserved  fruits,  immerse  for  an  instant  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  and  cut  into  dice  ;  put  into  a  bowl,  pour  over  them 
a  quarter  of  a  tumblerful  of  cognac,  cover,  and  let  them 
stand  for  an  hour ;  take  six  leaves  of  clarified  gelatine,  dis- 
solve, and  pour  into  an  earthen  saucepan;  add  a  quarter 
of  a  glassful  of  orange  syrup,  half  a  bottle  of  champagne, 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  syrup  of  pineapple  ;  stir  steadily  for  ten  minutes  ;  then 
strain  into  a  bowl  placed  on  ice,  and  beat  until  light ;  then 
add  the  chopped  fruit,  beat  smooth,  and  pour  into  a  mould 
which  has  been  packed  in  ice  for  fifteen  minutes ;  cover,  seal, 
and  pack  as  usual ;  fifteen  minutes  will  ice  it  thoroughly. 

Iced  Farina  Pudding. — Three  wineglassf  uls  of  white 
wine;  three  wineglassf  uls  of  water;  one  grain  of  salt; 
Hecker's  farina,  a  little  less  than  half  a  pound ;  half  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar;  the  rind,  grated,  and  juice  of  half 
a  lemon ;  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  the  utmost. 


380  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Boil  the  wine  and  water  in  a  saucepan ;  when  at  boil- 
ing-point, sift  in  the  farina,  a  little  at  a  time,  boil  seven 
or  eight  minutes,  then  add  the  lemon  and  sugar,  stirring 
all  the  time  ;  when  well  mixed  and  smooth  withdraw  from 
the  fire,  pour  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs ; 
beat  again,  hard  and  long,  until  quite  light  and  smooth, 
pour  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water,  and  packed  on  ice ; 
close  and  cover  as  above,  and  leave  two  hours  on  the  ice ; 
then  turn  out,  and  serve. 

Iced  Currant  Pudding. — Several  handf uls  of  ripe  cur- 
rants ;  the  juice  of  two  oranges;  one  cupful  of  rich,  sweet 
cream  ;  fifteen  leaves  of  clarified  gelatine,  dissolved ;  sug- 
ar to  taste. 

Press  the  currants  through  a  colander,  then  through  a 
sieve ;  then  add  the  sugar,  orange  juice,  and  gelatine;  then 
taste  and  add  more  sugar  if  necessary,  and  add  the  cream, 
drop  by  drop,  stirring  steadily ;  beat  hard  and  long  until 
very  light ;  pour  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water,  cover, 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt ;  one  hour  will  suffice. 


To  Chop  /Suet. — Cut  into  small  pieces,  and  remove  the 
membrane ;  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  chop  in  a  cold  place 
to  prevent  its  becoming  soft  and  sticky. 

To  Clean  Currants. — Put  them  in  a  squash  strainer, 
and  sprinkle  thickly  with  flour ;  rub  them  well  until  they 
are  separated,  and  the  flour,  grit,  and  fine  stems  have 
passed  through  the  strainer ;  then  place  strainer  and  cur- 
rants in  a  pan  of  water,  and  wash  thoroughly;  lift  strainer 
and  currants  together,  and  change  the  water  until  clear ; 
drain  between  towels,  but  do  not  harden  them  by  putting 
them  into  the  oven. 

To  Stone  Raisins.- — Pour  boiling  water  over  them ;  let 
them  stand  in  it  ^ve  or  ten  minutes ;  drain,  and  rub  each 
raisin  between  the  finger  and  thumb  until  the  seeds  come 
out  clean,  then  cut  or  chop  if  necessary. 


SWEET   SAUCES   FOR   PUDDINGS, 

ETC. 

Poor-Marl's  Cream  Sauce. — One  ounce  of  butter ;  one 
ounce  of  flour ;  a  little  spice ;  half  a  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  half  a  pint  of  milk ;  two  ounces  of  sugar. 

Stir  the  flour,  butter,  and  spice  over  the  fire  ;  add  grad- 
ually the  boiling  milk  and  water,  stirring  into  the  flour 
and  butter  until  quite  smooth ;  then  stir  in  the  sugar,  and 
let  it  boil  up  once ;  then  set  the  saucepan  containing  it 
into  another  of  hot  water,  so  that  the  sauce  may  be  kept 
hot  until  you  want  to  use  it. 

Poor-Marts  Apple  Sauce. — Two  quarts  of  cooking  ap- 
ples, pared,  cored,  and  sliced  ;  one  cupful  of  water;  four 
ounces  of  sugar ;  one  ounce  of  butter. 

Stew  the  apples  in  the  water  until  soft;  then  stir  in 
the  sugar  and  butter. 

Bed  Wine  Sauce. — Half  a  cupful  of  currant  jelly  ;  one 
glassful  of  claret,  or  any  other  red  wine ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  melted ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  half  of  a  dessertspoonful  of  arrow-root,  or  corn-starch, 
wet  with  cold  water. 

Stir  the  arrow-root  into  the  boiling  water  and  beat,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  thickens ;  add  the  butter,  then  set 
aside  until  almost  cool,  when  the  jelly  should  be  beaten  in, 
a  little  at  a  time,  to  a  smooth  cream  ;  pour  in  the  wine, 
stir  hard,  and  heat  in  a  tin  vessel  set  within  another  of 
boiling  water. 


382  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Apple- Jelly  Sauce. — Half  a  cupful  of  apple  jelly;  two 
tablespoonf uls  of  melted  butter ;  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
and  half  of  the  grated  peel ;  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg ;  two  glassf uls  of  wine ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Beat  the  jelly  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  add  gradually  the 
butter  (which  should  have  been  previously  warmed),  the 
lemon,  and  nutmeg;  warm  almost  to  a  boil,  stirring  stead- 
ily, beat  hard,  put  in  the  sugar,  and,  lastly,  the  wine  ;  cov- 
er closely,  and  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  un- 
til wanted ;  stir  now  and  then,  and  beat  up  well  before 
pouring  out. 

Dinah's  Charming  Sauce— One  small  cupful  of  sifted 
sugar ;  half  the  quantity  of  butter ;  one  large  cupful  of 
boiling  milk ;  one  dessertspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  then  stir  in  the 
cinnamon  and  the  boiling  milk ;  stir  briskly  till  smooth ; 
then  pour  into  the  sauce  boat ;  may  be  eaten  cold  or  hot. 

Old  Humphrey's  Aigre-Doux  Sauce  for  Cold  Puddings. 
— Two  large  cupfuls  of  sour  cream ;  the  juice  and  finely 
grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon  ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  hard  and  long  until  the  sauce  is  very  light.  This 
is  delicious  with  cold  "Brown  Betty" — a  form  of  cold 
farina,  corn-starch,  blanc-mange,  and  the  like. 

Felicie's  Creme  d'Amande  Sauce, — Two  large  cupfuls 
of  sweet  cream;  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  blanched, 
chopped,  browned  in  the  oven,  and  ground ;  one  ounce  of 
bitter  almonds,  blanched,  chopped,  browned  in  the  oven, 
and  ground ;  powdered  sugar  to  taste ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  rose  water. 

Beat  hard  and  long  until  the  sauce  is  thoroughly  blend- 
ed and  very  light.     It  is  a  delicious  sauce. 

Custard  Sauce. — One  pint  of  milk ;  two  eggs  beaten 


SWEET  SAUCES.  383 

very  light ;  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  stirred  into  the 
eggs ;  nutmeg  to  taste ;  flavoring  to  taste ;  half  a  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  add,  by  degrees,  the  beaten 
eggs  and  sugar,  put  in  the  flavoring  and  nutmeg,  and  set 
within  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  it  begins  to  thick- 
en ;  then  take  it  off,  and  stir  in  the  brandy  gradually  ;  set, 
until  wanted,  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Hot  Cream  Sauce. — One  pint  of  cream ;  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  extract  of  bit- 
ter almonds  or  other  flavoring  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  grated 
nutmeg ;  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Heat  the  cream  slowly  d  bain-marie;  when  scalding 
hot  remove  from  the  fire,  put  in  the  sugar  and  nutmeg, 
stir  three  or  four  minutes,  and  add  the  whites ;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  flavor,  setting  the  vessel  containing  the  sauce 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  the  pudding  is  served. 

Dinah's  Pudding  Sauce,  No.  1  ("Every  Day"). — One 
teacupful  of  sugar  ;  two  thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  butter  ; 
four  wineglassfuls  of  white  wine  ;  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
whites  and  yolks  separately ;  one  teaspoonful  of  sifted 
flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  eggs 
and  flour,  and,  lastly,  the  wine,  which  must  be  stirred  in 
boiling  hot;  serve  immediately. 

Dinah's  Nonpareil  Pudding  Sauce,  No.  2. — Two  cup- 
fuls  of  white  powdered  sugar,  sifted  ;  three  quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  fresh  butter ;  one  cupful  of  white  wine ;  one 
tablespoonf  ul  of  brandy  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  fine  white 
flour,  sifted. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  perfect  cream ;  then  add 
gradually  the  wine,  brandy,  and  flour,  stirring  steadily  all 
the  time  ;  then,  and  not  till  then,  put  the  bowl  containing 
the  sauce  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.     Do  not  stir  it, 


384  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

but  see  that  the  water  boils  steadily  until  the  sauce  is 
thoroughly  heated  through  ;  if  properly  made  it  is  smooth 
as  cream. 

Hard  Sauce. — Stir  to  a  cream  one  cupful  of  butter ; 
three  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  when  light,  beat  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Set  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

Brandy  Sauce. — Half  a  cupful  of  butter ;  two  cup- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar ;  one  wineglassful  of  brandy;  one 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 

Beehive  Sauce. — Make  a  good  hard  sauce,  according  to 
either  of  the  foregoing  receipts;  color  part  of  it  with 
cochineal  tincture  to  a  bright  crimson  or  pink,  and  shape 
into  a  beehive;  put. the  remainder  of  the  sauce  into  a 
small  paper  funnel,  and  squeeze  the  sauce  out  gently 
through  the  small  end  of  the  funnel,  beginning  at  the  base 
of  the  cone,  and  winding  about  it  to  the  top,  filling  the 
funnel  as  it  is  emptied.  The  effect  is  very  pretty,  and 
may  be  varied  as  to  color  to  suit  your  taste. 

Madeira -Wine  Sauce. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  whipped 
very  light ;  one  lemon,  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel ; 
one  glassful  of  Madeira  or  pale  sherry ;  one  cupful  of 
sugar  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  yolks,  lemon, 
and  spice ;  beat  ten  minutes,  and  put  in  the  wine,  still 
stirring  hard  ;  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and 
beat  while  it  heats,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.     Serve  hot. 

Delicious  Pudding  Sauce. — Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk ; 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  one  teacupful  of  pulver- 
ized sugar  beaten  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  flavoring  to 
taste ;  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Scald  the  milk ;  while  still  in  the  saucepan  pour  in  the 


SWEET  SAUCES.  385 

yolks,  and  boil  till  as  thick  as  custard  ;  take  from  the  fire, 
and,  when  cold,  add  the  flavoring  and  the  whites ;  beat 
hard  and  long. 

Quick  Sauce  for  Cold  Puddings. — One  pint  of  rich 
fresh  cream;  some  stale  macaroons  dried  in  the  oven  and 
rolled  fine  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  brandy ;  one  teaspoonf ul 
of  rose  water. 

Beat  the  crumbs  into  the  cream,  then  the  rose  water, 
last  of  all  the  brandy.     This  is  delicious  with  claret  jelly. 

Milk  Sauce. — Five  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  milk  ;  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  arrow-root  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold 
milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  onetablespoonful 
of  butter ;  two  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  one  large  cupful  of  sugar. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  and  beat  again ; 
add  next  the  corn-starch  and  spice,  then  the  milk,  beating 
hard  ;  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  five  minutes, 
stirring  hard.     Do  not  let  it  boil. 

Lemon  Sauce. — One  large  cupful  of  sugar;  half  a  large 
cupful  of  butter;  one  egg,  beaten  light;  one  lemon,  all 
the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg  ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  and  beat  in  the  egg  whip- 
ped light,  also  the  lemon  and  nutmeg. 

Orange  or  liaisin  Wine  Sauce. — Half  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter; two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar;  one  lemon,  juice 
and  half  the  grated  peel  ;  one  glassful  of  orange  brandy 
or  raisin  wine;  one  cupful  of  boiling  water;  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  corn  starch,  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well ;  pour  the  corn-starch 
into  the  boiling  water,  and  stir  over  a  close  fire  until  it  is 
well  thickened  ;  put  all  together  in  a  bowl,  and  beat  five 
minutes  before  returning  it  to  the  saucepan.  Heat  once, 
almost  to  boiling-point,  add  the  wine,  and  serve. 

17 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 

Browning  for  Gravies  and  Sauces,  Eo.  1. — Put  four 
ounces  of  lump  sugar,  a  gill  of  water,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  the  finest  butter  into  a  small  porcelain  saucepan,  and 
set  it  over  a  gentle  fire ;  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
it  is  a  bright  brown,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  boil, 
skim,  and,  when  cold,  bottle  and  cork  it  close. 

Browning  for  Gravy,  'No.  2. — Four  ounces  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar ;  one  ounce  of  best  butter ;  one  third  of  a  pint 
of  port  wine ;  three  spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup ;  six 
cloves ;  one  onion  chopped  fine ;  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon  ;  salt  and  allspice  to  taste. 

Put  the  butter  and  sugar  together  into  a  frying-pan  over 
a  clear  fire  ;  stir  it  constantly  ;  when  it  froths  and  the  sugar 
dissolves,  hold  it  higher;  when  it  becomes  a  deep  brown, 
pour  in  by  degrees  the  other  ingredients  in  the  above 
order ;  boil  all  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  skim,  strain,  and, 
when  cold,  bottle. 

On  the  Use  of  Wine  in  Sauces. — It  may  be  laid  down 
as  an  invariable  rule  that,  in  making  wine  sauces,  it  is  safe 
to  use  at  first  only  half  the  quantity  of  wine  indicated  in 
the  receipt,  adding  the  remainder  just  in  time  to  boil  up 
once.  In  this  way  the  fiavor  of  the  sauce  is  better  pre- 
served. 

Browned  Flour  for  Sauces. — Sift  the  flour,  spread  it  on 
a  tin  plate  on  the  stove,  and  stir  continually  until  it  begins 
to  brown  all  through. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  387 

Mushroom  Sauce. — One  teacupful  of  young  mush- 
rooms ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  one  teacup- 
ful of  cream  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  flour ;  nutmeg, 
mace,  and  salt  to  taste,  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Stew  the  mushrooms  in  enough  water  to  cover  them 
until  tender ;  drain,  add  the  cream,  butter,  and  seasoning, 
and  stew  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  add 
the  flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  sauceboat  with  boiled 
poultry,  game,  etc. 

Asparagus  Sauce. — Twelve  heads  of  asparagus;  two 
teacupf uls  of  drawn  butter ;  two  eggs  ;  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  ;  salt  and  white  pepper. 

Boil  the  tender  heads  in  a  little  salt  and  water;  drain 
and  chop  them ;  have  ready  the  drawn  butter  boiling  hot, 
with  two  raw  eggs  beaten  in ;  add  the  asparagus  heads 
and  season,  putting  in  the  lemon  juice  last ;  pour  into  a 
hot  sauceboat,  and  serve.  It  is  excellent  with  boiled  poul- 
try, stewed  fillet  of  veal,  or  boiled  mutton. 

Anchovy  Sauce. — Skin  and  bone  the  anchovies,  and 
simmer  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them;  strain  the 
liquor  into  a  teacupful  of  drawn  butter,  add  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  pale  sherry,  beat  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  stew  five 
minutes  longer.     Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Oyster  Sauce. — One  pint  of  oysters  ;  half  a  lemon,  juice 
only ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  mixed  with  cold  water;  one  teacupful  of  milk  or 
cream  ;  cayenne  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  and 
add  the  cream  ;  when  this  boils,  strain  the  liquor  and  re- 
turn to  the  saucepan ;  thicken  with  the  flour,  stir  well, 
then  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  season  to  taste ;  boil  one 
minute,  add  the  lemon  juice,  stir  well,  and  dish. 

For  boiled  fish  and  boiled  poultry. 


388  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Boast  Lamb. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
green  mint  chopped  fine ;  one  tablespoonfnl  of  powdered 
sugar ;  half  a  teacupf ul  of  cider  or  wine  vinegar. 

Put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  into  a  sauceboat,  and  stir  in 
the  mint.  Let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes  before  sending  it 
to  table. 

Sauce  JEspagnole  {Brown  Sauce). — Butter  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan  ;  put  in  pieces  of  cold  chicken,  game,  ham, 
veal,  etc.,  in  fact  whatever  cold  meats  you  have ;  add  an 
onion,  a  clove,  and  a  carrot  cut  in  pieces  ;  place  the  sauce- 
pan, covered,  on  a  slow  fire  to  let  the  meat  steam,  and  until 
the  sauce  begins  to  color;  add  one  or  two  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  mix  it  well,  moisten  with  hoi;  bouillon  so  that  the 
sauce  will  be  the  proper  consistency  ;  add  a  soup  bunch, 
and  salt;  let  it  simmer  slowly  four  hours  on  the  back  of 
the  stove ;  then  skim  off  the  grease  ;  press  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  keep  it  on  hand  for  adding  to  all  other  sauces. 

Sauce  Veloute  {White  Sauce).  —  Put  in  a  saucepan  a 
little  butter,  carrots,  onions,  slices  of  lean  ham,  and  scraps 
of  cold  meat,  or  fowls — in  fact  a  whole  chicken,  if  you 
wish — a  soup  bunch,  a  clove  of  garlic  (for  a  few  moments), 
a  quart  of  water;  cut  up  the  chicken,  and  let  it  steam  on 
a  good  fire  ;  the  sauce  being  reduced,  prick  the  pieces  of 
chicken  and  meat  to  let  the  juice  escape  ;  fill  the  saucepan 
with  cold  water ;  season  with  salt,  one  or  two  cloves  of 
garlic,  and  twelve  or  fifteen  mushrooms,  without  vinegar; 
skim  it  well  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  it  simmer 
four  hours ;  strain  it  then  into  a  saucepan ;  the  moment 
it  begins  to  boil  add  some  roux  blanc  with  one  hand,  and 
stir  with  the  other  hand,  until  you  make  the  sauce  the 
thickness  desired  ;  let  it  simmer  slowly  one  hour  more  on 
the  back  of  the  stove ;  then  skim,  strain,  and  keep  for  fur- 
ther use. 

Sauce  Allemande. — Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  veloute 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  389 

in  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have  already  beaten  up  four 
or  five  yolks  of  eggs,  with  a  little  butter,  and  a  pinch  of 
grated  nutmeg;  put  it  on  the  fire  for  a  moment,  stirring 
it  all  the  time,  that  the  eggs  may  be  well  cooked  and  the 
sauce  well  mixed.  This  is  a  good  sauce  for  vegetables,  or 
fish. 

Sauce  Supreme. — Make  a  little  consomme  of  chicken, 
with  all  the  trimmings  ;  strain  and  clarify  it ;  make  a  little 
roux  blanc,  moisten  it  with  this  consomme,  and  reduce  it 
to  the  proper  consistency  ;  at  the  moment  of  serving,  add 
the  juice  of  a  good  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter ;  stir  your 
sauce  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  if  you  like,  add  a  little 
chopped  parsley  which  has  been  well  washed. 

Egg  Sauce. — Yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine  ;  a  good  teacupful  of  drawn  butter  ;  salt  to  taste. 

Stir  the  chopped  yolks  of  the  eggs  into  the  hot  drawn 
butter,  and  add,  for  fowls,  a  little  minced  parsley  ;  for  fish, 
some  chopped  capers,  pickles,  or  nasturtium  seed  ;  for 
boiled  beef,  a  shallot  minced  fine. 

.  Bechamel  Sauce. — Put  nine  ounces  of  sifted  white  flour 
into  an  earthen  dish;  add  three  glasses  of  cold  milk,  stir- 
ring vigorously ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  be- 
gins to  thicken  withdraw  it  from  the  pan,  beat  smooth, 
and  add  one  pint  of  boiled  milk,  two  small  onions  minced 
fine,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  little  salt,  some  whole  pep- 
percorns, and,  lastly,  four  to  five  ounces  of  raw  ham, 
chopped  fine ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  draw  to  the  back 
of  the  stove,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often ; 
then  strain  carefully. 

Bread  Sauce,  No.  1. — Slice  some  white  bread  very  thin, 
and  remove  the  crust ;  boil  it  in  milk  with  a  small  onion, 
and  some  whole  white  pepper ;  take  out  the  onion,  rub  the 
sauce  through  a  coarse  sieve,  warm  it  up  again,  and  stir 


390  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

in  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter  before  serving.  A  little 
cream  is  an  improvement,  and  this,  too,  should  be  stirred 
in  before  serving. 

Bread  /Sauce,  No.  2.  —  Eoll  some  stale  bread  crumbs 
very  fine,  brown  them  thoroughly,  and  put  aside;  put 
equal  quantities  of  milk  and  cream  in  a  casserole,  together 
with  a  small  onion  and  some  peppercorns ;  when  the  onion 
is  boiled,  take  it  out,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  sieve,  and 
replace  it  on  the  fire  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter ;  add 
now,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  brown  bread  crumbs,  stirring 
all  the  time,  and,  when  all  are  put  in,  heat  the  sauce  for  a 
moment,  put  into  a  hot  sauceboat,  and  serve.  It  is  very 
good. 

Beurre  de  Montpellier. — Blanch  in  boiling  water  a  large 
handful  of  sweet  herbs,  such  as  chives,  chervil,  tarragon, 
parsley,  etc.,  drain,  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  paste,  to- 
gether with  four  anchovies,  boned  and  skinned,  the  yolks 
of  eight  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  or  three  cucumbers,  a  soup- 
con  of  garlic,  capers,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nut- 
meg, and  enough  fine,  fresh  butter  to  work  all  into  a 
smooth,  hard  paste  ;  add  also  some  lemon  juice  and  a  little 
olive-oil ;  color  pale  olive  green  with  essence  of  spinach, 
and  put  in  a  cool  place.     Use  to  garnish  cold  dishes. 

Beurre  d'Ecrevisses  {Grabs  or  Shrimps).  —  Wash  and 
cook  the  fish  with  salt  and  water ;  pound  the  shells  (which 
should  be  bright  pink  or  red  in  color)  and  the  flesh  to- 
gether in  a  mortar;  when  you  have  reduced  them  to  a 
smooth  paste,  mix  them  with  an  equal  quantity  of  the 
finest  fresh  butter ;  work  smooth  in  the  mortar,  then  put 
on  the  fire  with  a  little  water,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour ; 
put  some  clear  cold  water  in  the  bottom  of  a  jar  or  pan, 
spread  over  a  coarse  muslin,  and  pour  on  the  butter ;  it 
will  filter  through  the  muslin,  and  must  be  pressed  through 
if  necessary;  it  will  float  on  the  water  below,  from  which 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  391 

you  must  skim  it,  working  it  again  into  shape,  and  using 
it  for  flavoring  sauces,  etc. 

Beurre  d'Ail,  or  Garlic  Butter.  —  Pound  two  large 
cloves  of  garlic  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  work  in  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  This  also  may  be  used,  in 
very  small  quantities,  to  flavor  sauces. 

Anchovy  Butter. — Bone  and  skin  two  anchovies,  pound 
to  a  paste,  and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  fresh  but- 
ter. 

Melted  Butter,  a  la  Francaise,  for  Salmon. — Melt  in  a 
saucepan  four  to  five  ounces  of  butter,  and  add,  little  by 
little,  an  equal  quantity  of  the  finest  sifted  flour,  stirring 
steadily  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  as  cream  ;  then  add 
two  glasses  of  the  water  in  which  the  salmon  was  boiled ; 
this  water  must  be  strained,  and  cool  before  using  it ; 
allow  the  sauce  just  to  come  to  a  boil ;  then  take  the 
saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  four  and  a  half  ounces  of  melted  butter,  never  ceas- 
ing to  stir  it  for  an  instant ;  finish  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  roasted  powdered  parsley. 

Butter  Browned. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  toss  and  stir  it  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  browns ; 
then  dredge  with  browned  flour,  and  stir  into  a  thick  bat- 
ter until  it  begins  to  boil. 

Maitre  d) "Hotel  Sauce. — One  teacupful  of  melted  but- 
ter, prepared  as  for  Dutch  sauce ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
minced  parsley ;  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  cayenne  and  salt  to 
taste. 

Draw  the  butter ;  stir  in  the  roasted  parsley ;  add  the 
lemon  juice;  then  the  pepper  and  salt;  beat  hard  with 
an  egg  whip ;  return  to  the  pan,  and  boil  up  once. 


392  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Old-fashioned  Drawn  Butter,  No.  1. — Two  teaspoonf  uls 
of  sifted  flour ;  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter ;  one  tea- 
cupful  of  water  or  milk;  salt  to  taste. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl,  and  add  the  milk,  a 
little  at  a  time,  working  it  as  smooth  as  velvet;  put  into 
a  saucepan,  and  beat  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water;  stir  stead- 
ily, and  when  it  has  boiled  a  minute  or  more  add  the  but- 
ter by  degrees,  stirring  until  entirely  melted  and  quite 
smooth  ;  boil  one  minute. 

Old-fashioned  Drawn  Butter,  No.  2. — One  and  a  half 
teaspoonf  uls  of  flour  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold  water ;  two 
ounces  of  butter  ;  one  small  teacupful  of  hot  water. 

Mix  and  cook  as  above. 

Onion  Sauce. — Four  white  onions;  one  teacupful  of  hot 
milk,  or,  better  still,  cream;  one  teacupful  of  drawn  but- 
ter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Peel  the  onions,  boil  tender,  drain,  press,  and  mince  fine; 
have  ready  the  hot  milk  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  the  onions, 
then  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper ;  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

Celery  Sauce. — Two  large  heads  of  celery ;  one  teacup- 
ful of  white  bouillon  or  stock ;  one  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk  ;  salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste  ;  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  and  the  same  of  butter. 

Boil  the  celery  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain,  and 
chop  into  small  bits;  thicken  the  stock  with  the  flour; 
add  the  butter,  seasoning,  and  milk ;  stir  or  beat  until 
smooth  ;  put  in  the  celery  ;  heat  almost  to  boiling,  stirring 
steadily;  serve  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

Dutch  Sauce. — Put  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  in  a  saucepan,  and  reduce  it  on  the  fire  to  one 
third ;  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg; 
place  the  saucepan  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  the  contents  con- 
tinually with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  and  as  fast  as  the 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  393 

butter  melts  add  more,  until  half  a  pound  is  used ;  if  the 
sauce  becomes  too  thick  at  any  time  during  the  process, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  continue  stirring  ; 
then  put  in  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  take  great  care 
not  to  let  the  sauce  boil ;  when  it  is  made,  and  that  is 
when  the  butter  is  all  consumed,  and  the  sauce  is  of  the 
proper  thickness,  put  the  saucepan  containing  it  into  an- 
other filled  with  warm  {not  boiling)  water  until  the  time 
of  serving. 

Cold  Sauce  for  Fish. — Blanch  and  pound  parsley,  cher- 
vil, tarragon,  pimpernel,  and  chives;  when  reduced  to  a 
smooth  paste  press  through  a  sieve,  and  add  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  smooth  ;  mix  well,  and  add, 
drop  by  drop,  four  spoonfuls  of  oil,  two  of  vinegar,  and 
two  of  made  mustard  ;  serve  in  a  sauceboat. 

Cold  Ravigote. — Take  watercresses,  tarragon,  chives, 
chervil,  pimpernel,  shallots,  a  clove  (tiny)  of  garlic,  the 
tender  leaves  of  celery,  basil,  capers,  and  a  few  anchovies; 
chop  fine,  then  rub  to  a  paste  ;  add  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg, 
a  little  oil,  salt,  and  pepper,  and,  lastly,  a  little  vinegar ; 
work  to  a  smooth  sauce ;  you  may  add  mustard  if  you  wTish 
a  very  piquant  ravigote. 

Indian  or  Karl  Sauce. — Put  in  a  saucepan  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  a  coffeespoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper  mixed  with  saffron  (or  kari) ;  a  soujpqon  of  grated 
nutmeg;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour;  salt  to  taste;  add 
some  strong  bouillon  ;  boil  up  once ;  strain  ;  stir  in  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  serve. 

Hot  Mayonnaise  Sauce  for  Boiled  Salmon.  —  For  a 
sauceboatful,  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  salt  to  taste, 
and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  finest  oil  of  Lucca  and 
of  vinegar  to  work  it  smooth  ;  when  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency, put  it  into  a  small   earthenware   casserole,  and 

17* 


394  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  disintegrate ;  then  take 
it  quickly  from  the  fire,  and  beat  it  smooth,  adding  a  few 
drops  of  cold  water;  then  return  to  the  fire  and  heat, 
stirring  steadily ;  do  not  allow  it  to  boil ;  at  the  last  mo- 
ment, after  you  have  taken  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  moistened  with  vinegar,  and  a  pinch 
of  roasted  powdered  parsley. 

Sauce  Poivrade. —  Chop  fine  a  large  onion  and  four 
shallots ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  some  lean,  raw 
ham,  a  little  butter,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  handful  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  some  sprigs  of  parsley,  laurel,  and  thyme, 
three  or  four  peppercorns,  and  some  spices;  cook  all  to- 
gether for  eight  minutes ;  then  add  a  glassful  of  good 
vinegar;  cook  again  until  the  vinegar  is  reduced  to  one 
half ;  add  two  glassf ills  of  Sauce  Esjpagnole  /  let  all  come 
to  aboil;  then  place  the  saucepan  where  its  contents  can 
only  simmer ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour  afterwards  skim  it;  add 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Sauce  JRavigote. — Put  into  a  saucepan  two  or  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  shallots,  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar ;  cook  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  one  half  ;  then 
add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sauce,  rather  thick ;  let 
all  boil  for  a  few  seconds ;  then  withdraw  the  saucepan 
from  the  fire,  and  mix  with  the  sauce,  drop  by  drop,  the 
quarter  of  a  tumblerful  of  oil  of  Lucca,  stirring  steadily 
one  way ;  when  smooth  add  a  teaspoonf ul  of  made  mus- 
tard, and  a  pinch  each  of  tarragon  and  pimpernel  chopped 
fine. 

Sauce  Verte  d  la  Venitienne. — Make  a  white  sauce  as 
usual,  using  fish  stock  instead  of  other  stock,  and  also  a 
glass  of  white  wine ;  pound  in  a  mortar  a  handful  of  fresh 
parsley,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  chives  blanched  ;  add 
two  pickled  gherkins  chopped  fine  ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of 
capers ;  four  anchovies  boned  and  pounded  to  a  pulp ;  bind 


SAUCES  EOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  395 

with  a  little  melted  butter,  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  mix 
with  the  sauce  at  the  last  moment. 

Sauce  HoUandaise. — Use  for  this  sauce  only  the  fresh- 
est butter  and  eggs  ;  put  one  and  a  half  tablespoonf  uls  of 
vinegar  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  still 
smaller  pinch  of  white  pepper ;  reduce  this  on  the  fire  to 
one  third ;  withdraw  the  sauce  from  the  fire  ;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
from  which  you  have  carefully  removed  every  particle  of 
white;  replace  the  saucepan  on  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  until  the  eggs  thicken,  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  stir  till  it  dissolves; 
then  replace  on  the  fire  for  one  minute,  and  add  two 
ounces  of  butter ;  stir  until  it  dissolves,  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  stir  in  two  more  ounces  of  butter;  proceed 
in  this  order,  stirring  steadily,  until  you  have  used  up  all 
the  butter;  when  you  add  butter  for  the  third  time  put 
in  also  a  tablespoonf ul  of  cold  water;  the  quantity  of  but-' 
ter  used  should  be  half  a  pound ;  stir  smoothly  and  un- 
ceasingly; should  the  sauce  be  too  thick,  add  another  ta- 
blespoonful  of  cold  water.  Under  no  circumstances  be 
induced  to  thicken  this  sauce  with  flour.  The  principle 
of  HoUandaise  sauce  is  to  be  composed  solely  of  eggs  and 
butter.  "  To  my  mind  Sauce  HoUandaise  is  the  king  of 
sauces"  (Goufie). 

Roux  (G-ouffe). — Roux  is  made  with  flour  and  butter ;  it 
should  be  cooked  on  a  very  slow  fire  until  it  becomes  pale 
brown  in  color. 

Put  the  saucepan  containing  the  roux  on  the  fire,  moisten 
with  a  little  water,  stir  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  cook  over  a  quick  fire  until  it  begins  to  boil ;  then  set 
it  back  on  the  stove,  simmer  for  an  hour,  strain,  and  put 
into  an  earthen  jar. 

Green  Mayonnaise. — Make  a  mayonnaise  as  usual,  but 


396  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

work  into  it  gradually  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  herbs, 
as  for  Sauce  Bavigote  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  spin- 
ach. 

Sorrel  Sauce. — Pick  from  the  stalks  and  wash  carefully 
two  handfuls  of  sorrel,  and  drain,  then  chop  it  somewhat 
coarsely  ;  melt  in  a  saucepan  a  pat  of  butter,  mix  with  it 
a  small  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  add  the  sorrel,  and  a  half- 
pint  of  cream,  a  little  stock,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg;  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready. 

Parsley -and- Lemon  Sauce.  —  Wash  a  handful  of  pars- 
ley, and  mince  it  finely  with  the  pulp  and  grated  rind  of 
a  lemon;  melt  a  pat  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  mix  with 
it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  the  parsley  and  lemon, 
enough  stock  to  make  a  sauce,  a  little  pounded  mace,  and 
a  few  capers ;  stir  over  the  fire,  and  when  partly  cooked 
withdraw  from  the  fire  a  moment,  and  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  beaten  up ;  heat  to  a  boil,  salt,  dish,  and  serve. 

Shrimp  Sauce. — Take  half  a  pint  of  boiled  shrimps,  pick 
out  the  meat  from  the  tails,  pound  the  rest  in  a  mortar  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  piece  of  butter,  and  pass 
it  through  a  sieve  ;  make  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  put 
the  meat  from  the  tails  into  it,  add  a  dust  of  cayenne,  and 
when  the  sauce  boils  stir  into  it  the  shrimp  butter  which 
has  come  through  the  sieve,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
Crab  and  lobster  sauce  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Sardine  Sauce. — Skin,  bone,  and  tail  twelve  sardines, 
and  pull  them  into  very  small  pieces;  chop  up  with  them 
a  shallot,  a  small  quantity  of  parsley,  and  the  grated  rind 
of  half  a  large  lemon  ;  melt  in  a  saucepan  a  pat  of  butter; 
mix  with  it  a  small  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour ;  when 
it  has  taken  color  add  the  mince  with  enough  stock  to 
make  good  sauce ;  let  it  boil,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  a  soiipcon 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  serve. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  397 

Tartare  Sauce. — Put  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  into  a  plate, 
then  salt  and  mustard  to  taste,  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  white 
sugar ;  work  in,  drop  by  drop,  the  oil,  which  should  be  of 
the  finest  quality ;  or  use  thick,  fresh  cream  instead  of 
oil ;  then  work  in  the  tarragon  vinegar,  add  white  pepper, 
a  soupcon  of  cayenne,  a  button  onion  minced  and  mashed 
fine,  and  a  little  pickled  cucumber  cut  fine;  rub  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  served  with  garlic. 

Italian  Sauce. — Mince  a  couple  of  shallots  finely,  and 
fry  them  in  a  little  salad  oil  to  a  pale  straw  color ;  add  two 
or  three  mushrooms  and  a  little  parsley,  both  finely  minced ; 
moisten  with  enough  stock  and  white  wine,  in  equal  parts, 
to  make  the  sauce ;  put  in,  tied  up  together,  some  sweet 
herbs  and  a  bay  leaf,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  let 
the  sauce  boil  for  half  an  hour ;  remove  the  herbs  and  bay 
leaf,  melt  a  large  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  lit- 
tle flour  to  it,  stir  well,  and  then  add  the  sauce. 

White  Lemon  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowls. — Put  the  peel  of 
a  fresh  lemon  into  one  pint  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  together 
with  a  sprig  of  lemon  thyme  and  ten  white  peppercorns ; 
simmer  gently  until  the  cream  tastes  of  the  lemon ;  then 
strain,  and  thicken  it  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
and  one  tablespoonf ul  of  sifted  flour ;  allow  it  to  boil  up 
once,  and  pour  the  juice  of  one  lemon  into  it,  stirring  it 
well ;  salt  to  taste. 

Sauce  for  Hot  or  Cold  Boast  Beef. — Grate  some  horse- 
radish very  fine,  and  add  a  little  made  mustard,  as  much 
powdered  white  sugar,  and  four  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  also  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Yarmouth  Fish  Sauce. — One  pint  of  port  wine;  one 
gill  of  mountain  wine;  half  a  pint  of  fine  walnut  catsup; 
one  gill  of  walnut  pickle  with  the  liquor;  the  juice  and 
the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon  ;  four  red-pepper  pods ; 


398  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

three  ounces  of  grated  horseradish ;  three  blades  of  mace ; 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  made  mustard;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
sifted  sugar. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
stir  steadily,  and  simmer  gently  till  all  rawness  of  taste 
disappears ;  then  withdraw  from  the  fire,  allow  it  to  cool, 
and  put  into  small,  wide-necked  bottles ;  cork  tightly. 

Apple  Sauce. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  ripe,  tart  ap- 
ples ;  stew  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until  they  break 
to  pieces ;  add  brown  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg ;  beat  to  a  smooth  pulp,  and  stir  in  a  good  lump  of 
butter. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cran- 
berries, and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  teacupf ul  of  water ; 
stew  slowly,  stirring  often,  until  they  are  as  thick  as  mar- 
malade ;  they  require  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook ; 
when  you  take  them  from  the  fire,  sweeten  abundantly  with 
white  sugar ;  then  pulp  through  a  coarse  mosquito-net  into 
a  mould  wet  with  cold  water. 

Peach  Sauce  (Old  Marie's).  —  Soak  a  quart  of  dried 
peaches  in  water  four  hours ;  wash  them  carefully,  chang- 
ing the  water  two  or  three  times ;  drain  and  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  them ;  stew  till 
they  break  to  pieces,  putting  in,  also,  a  little  dried  orange 
peel  for  flavoring ;  rub  to  a  soft  pulp,  sweeten  to  taste 
with  white  sugar,  and  just  before  taking  from  the  fire 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  moistened  with  cold 
water. 


CUSTARDS,   CREAMS,  JELLIES, 
AND    BLANC-MANGES. 

UTILES    FOE   MAKING    CUSTARD. 

1.  Always  boil  custard  by  tain-marie — that  is,  by  put- 
ting the  vessel  containing  the  custard  inside  of  another 
partly  tilled  with  hot  water,  taking  care  that  the  water  in 
the  outer  vessel  is  not  deep  enough  to  float  the  custard-ket- 
tle, or  to  boil  over  into  it. 

2.  Do  not  let  the  milk  quite  boil  before  adding  the 
yolks;  take  the  scalding  milk  from  the  fire  and  beat  it 
gradually  into  the  yolks,  then  return  to  the  fire  and  boil 
gently  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Allow  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  for  thickening  a  quart. 

3.  Allow  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  For  a  very  plain  cus- 
tard allow  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  quart,  and 
an  egg  for  each  cupful  of  milk.  Custards,  creams,  and 
trifles  that  are  to  be  frozen  should  have  one  third  more 
sugar.  "  Floating  Island  "  is  made  like  plain  custard,  reserv- 
ing, however,  all  the  whites  for  the  meringue.  Proceed 
according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  taking  care  that  the 
meringue  is  whipped  up  with  colored  fruit  jelly. 


Plain  Custard.  —  One  quart  of  milk;  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  five  eggs ;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  flavoring 
to  taste. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  beat  the  yolks  light, 
and  stir  in  the  sugar ;  add  the  scalding  milk  to  the  eggs, 
in  the  manner  directed  above,  stir  in  next  the  five  whites 


400  THE  UNRLVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

whipped  very  stiff,  return  to  the  fire,  and  stir  until  thick, 
but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  break ;  flavor,  stir,  and  pour 
into  cups.  If  you  wish  to  make  this  more  effective,  you 
may  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  meringue,  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  drop  a  lit- 
tle of  this  on  the  top  of  each  cup. 

Pistachio  Custard. — Make  a  custard  as  usual,  and  add 
one  tenth  of  a  pound  of  pistachio  nuts,  which  should  be 
prepared  as  follows:  Scald  them  in  boiling  water,  and 
then  peel  them  and  pound  them  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a 
mortar.  This  paste  should  be  added  to  the  custard  be- 
fore it  is  put  on  the  fire,  and  just  before  taking  it  from 
the  fire  add  enough  essence  of  spinach  to  give  it  a  fine 
green  color. 

German  Custard.— Make  a  custard  as  usual,  adding  half 
an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds,  blanched,  roasted,  and  pound- 
ed to  a  paste,  and  half  an  ounce  of  pinenuts  or  peanuts, 
blanched,  roasted,  and  pounded ;  also  a  small  quantity  of 
candied  citron  cut  into  the  thinnest  possible  slips ;  cook 
the  custard  as  usual,  and  set  it  on  the  ice  for  some  hours 
before  using. 

Polish  Custard. — Take  six  Naples  biscuits,  or  small 
sponge  cakes;  dry  them  in  the  oven,  then  crumble  them 
fine,  and  roll  with  the  rolling-pin  until  they  are  reduced 
to  a  powder ;  moisten  them  with  half  a  glassful  of  fresh 
cream,  then  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar,  sifted,  and  lastly 
four  glassfuls  of  fresh  cream,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence 
of  bitter  almond. 

Cook  d  bain-marie,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden 
or  silver  spoon  until  the  cream  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil ;  when  of  the  proper  consistency  remove  the  casserole 
from  the  fire,  pour  the  cream  into  a  dish,  and  set  it  aside 
to  cool;  when  quite  cold,  sift  some  fine  sugar  on  the  top 


CUSTAEDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.  401 

of  the  custard,  taking  care  to  do  so  very  evenly,  so  that 
the  custard  is,  as  it  were,  iced;  then  burn  this  sugar  by 
passing  a  red-hot  iron  spatula  very  lightly  over  it,  without 
touching  the  custard  ;  if  properly  done,  the  sugar  forms  a 
brown,  glazed  crust  on  top  of  the  custard.  The  effect  is 
admirable. 

Lemon  Creams.  —  Pare  four  lemons  very  thinly,  and 
throw  into  twelve  tablespoonf uls  of  water ;  squeeze  juice 
over  eight  ounces  of  finely  powdered  sugar ;  well  beat  the 
yolks  of  ten  eggs,  add  peel,  water,  and  juice  gradually,  and 
strain  through  muslin  into  a  stewpan. 

Stir  it  one  way  over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  becomes  pret- 
ty thick,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve  cold  in  custard 
cups. 

Nesselrode  Cream  d  la  Russe. — One  pint  of  syrup  of 
loaf  sugar,  flavored  with  vanilla  ;  fifty  line  large  chest- 
nuts, boiled,  peeled,  pounded,  and  pressed  through  a  sieve  ; 
one  quart  of  fresh  cream ;  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  well 
beaten. 

Moisten  the  strained  chestnuts  with  the  syrup,  adding 
little  by  little  the  cream  and  the  beaten  yolks;  when  all 
these  ingredients  are  smoothly  mixed  together,  cook  d 
tain-ma?'ie,  stirring  continually  until  the  cream  begins  to 
thicken  ;  add  then  a  piece  of  candied  citron,  sliced  fine, 
one  tenth  of  a  pound  of  Snltana  raisins,  seeded  and  dredged, 
and  a  glassful  of  Maraschino  ;  add  also,  and  lastly,  a  quart 
of  whipped  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
stir  continually  until  the  cream  is  as  smooth  as  velvet,  and 
very  thick ;  then  pour  into  a  dish,  and  set  on  the  ice  for 
some  hours  before  serving. 

Strawberry  Cream. — Press  through  a  sieve  five  ounces 
of  ripe  strawberries;  put  the  pulp  in  a  casserole  with  five 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  oner  quarter  ounce  of  powdered 
gum  arabic,  and  a  pint  of  good,  fresh  cream. 


402  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  smoothly  together,  then  put  the 
casserole  on  the  fire,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  cooked.  This  cream  may  be  allowed  to  boil, 
and  is,  indeed,  better  if  allowed  to  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Eat  ice-cold. 

Peach  Cream — is  made  in  exactly  the  same  way,  omit- 
ting the  gum  arabic,  and  using  enough  cream  to  prevent 
the  mixture  from  being  too  thick. 

Whipped  Cream  with  Chestnuts. — Choose  large,  fine 
chestnuts,  boil  until  tender,  then  drain,  peel  (removing 
outer  and  inner  skin),  and  press  through  a  colander;  ar- 
range the  light,  feathery  mass  thus  obtained  in  a  pile 
in  the  centre  of  a  round  dish,  and  pour  round  it  some 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  bitter  al- 
monds. 

Caramel  Cream. — Make  a  custard  as  usual,  using  burned 
sugar  instead  of  white  sugar ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

It  is  impossible  to  measure  the  sugar  otherwise,  as 
burned  sugar  has  less  sweetening  power  than  ordinary 
sugar.  The  custard  so  made  should  be  of  a  delicate  brown 
color.     It  is  delicious. 

Solid  Snow  or  Rahm  Suite. — Bring  to  the  boiling-point 
one  quart  of  fresh,  rich  cream  or  milk ;  pour  this  quickly 
over  two  spoonfuls  of  corn-flour,  blended  with  some  cold 
cream  ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  allow  it  to  boil  gently,  stirring 
for  two  or  three  minutes;  add  quickly  the  whites  of  six 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  up 
more  than  once  after  adding  the  egg',  flavor  with  lemon, 
vanilla,  bitter  almond,  ratifia,  or  grated  lemon  peel ;  lay 
the  snow  thus  formed  quickly  in  rocky  heaps  on  sil- 
ver or  glass  dishes,  or  in  shapes.  Iced,  it  will  turn  out 
well. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.  403 

Rose  Cream. — Flavor  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  with 
essence  of  rose,  sugar  to  taste  ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs,  pour  the  flavored  milk  on  them,  and  keep  on  stirring 
in  bain-marie  until  the  custard  thickens;  melt  nine  sheets 
of  best  French  gelatine  in  a  little  milk,  and  add  this  to  the 
custard,  together  with  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  colored 
a  deep  pink  with  cochineal;  pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on 
ice.     Eat  cold. 

Fried  Cream. — Half  a  pound  of  butter  ;  four  ounces  of 
flour ;  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  one  quart  of  sweet,  rich  milk 
or  cream ;  the  yolks  of  four  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  the  flour,  add  the 
milk,  stirring  always  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  set  it  on  the  fire 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  a  little  vanilla, 
and  when  you  take  it  off  the  fire  stir  in  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  grease  a  dish,  and  pour  the  cream  in  it,  and  let  it 
cool ;  cut  in  little  squares,  dip  it  in  beaten  egg,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  it  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  olive-oil ;  drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

Bavarian  Cream. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream  ;  yolks 
only  of  four  eggs  ;  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  or  isinglass  ; 
one  small  cupful  of  sugar ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla, 
bitter-almond  extract,  or  other  flavoring. 

Soak  the  gelatine,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  for 
one  hour ;  drain,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  cream  made 
boiling  hot ;  beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the  sugar,  and 
add  the  boiling  mixture,  beating  in  a  little  at  a  time  ;  heat 
again  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  remove  it 
from  the  fire  ;  flavor  it,  and  stir  in  the  other  pint  of  cream, 
which  should  previously  have  been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  ; 
beat  in  this,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  until  it  is  of  the  con- 
sistency of  a  sponge-cake  batter ;  dip  a  mould  in  cold  wa- 
ter, pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  on  ice  to  form. 


404  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Dutch  Cream. — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar;  six 
table-spoonfuls  of  water;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  thin  vin 
ordinaire  or  other  red  wine ;  six  whole  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Beat  all  well  together,  cook  a  tain-marie,  and  serve  ice- 
cold. 

Spanish  Cream.  —  One  quart  of  milk;  yolks  of  three 
eggs;  one  small  cupful  of  sugar,  sifted ;  half  a  box  of 
gelatine  ;  bitter-almond  flavoring  to  taste. 

Soak  the  gelatine  an  hour  in  the  milk,  put  on  the  fire, 
and  stir  well  as  it  warms  ;  beat  the  yolks  very  light  with 
the  sugar,  add  to  the  scalding  milk,  and  heat  to  the  boiling- 
point,  stirring  all  the  time ;  strain  through  thin  muslin : 
pour  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Almond  Cream.  —  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds, 
blanched,  pounded  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  and  moistened 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose  water ;  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  whites  of  four  (two  for  meringue)',  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  sifted  sugar,  heaping. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  the 
almond  paste,  and  whites  of  two  eggs  ;  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens;  stir  up  well  when  almost  cold, 
and  pour  into  cups,  putting  on  each  cup  a  meringue  made 
of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  flavored  with  bitter  almond. 

Tapioca  Cream  Custard.  —  Three  eggs ;  one  pint  of 
cold  water;  one  quart  of  milk;  five  dessertspoonfuls  of 
tapioca ;  one  heaping  cupful  of  sugar ;  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
flavoring  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  five  hours;  let  the  milk  come 
to  a  boil,  add  the  tapioca,  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled, 
and  a  good  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  until  boiling  hot,  and  add 
gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar ;  boil  again  (stir- 
ring constantly)  for  five  minutes ;  pour  into  a  bowl,  and 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.  405 

stir  gently  into  the  mixture  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth ;  flavor,  stir,  and  set  on  the  ice. 

Swiss  Cream. — Boil  a  pint  of  thick  cream  with  a  little 
lemon  peel,  finely  grated ;  when  quite  cool  add  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  and  sugar  to  taste ;  pour  over  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  macaroons,  soaked  in  sherry,  brandy,  or  red 
wine. 

Velvet  Cream. — Put  into  a  pan  one  ounce  of  isinglass ; 
half  a  pint  of  sherry,  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  half 
the  rind,  finely  grated. 

Let  all  boil  together  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved  ; 
strain  through  a  piece  of  muslin  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream,  and  stir  altogether  one  way,  until  nearly  cold  ;  then 
pour  into  moulds  which  have  been  previously  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Orange  Fool. — Mix  the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges 
with  three  whole  eggs  well  beaten ;  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  finely  sifted  sugar  to  taste. 

Set  this  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  one  way  until  it  be- 
comes of  the  consistency  of  melted  butter.     Serve  ice-cold. 

Gooseberry  Fool. — One  quart  of  ripe  gooseberries  ;  one 
large  tablespoonf ul  of  butter ;  one  cupful  of  sugar,  sifted ; 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  whipped  to  the  utmost ;  meringue  of 
whites,  and  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar. 

Stew  the  gooseberries  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them  ;  when  soft  and  broken,  rub  through  a  sieve  to  re- 
move skins  and  seeds ;  while  boiling  hot,  whip  in  the  but- 
ter, sugar,  and  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  pour  into  custard  cups, 
drop  the  meringue  on  top,  and  set  on  ice. 

Currant  Fool — is  made  as  above,  omitting  the  butter. 

Flummery. — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  one 


406  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

pint  of  water ;  add  one  pint  of  sherry  ;  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  sugar  to  taste. 

Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  rawness  of  the  egg  is  gone  ; 
when  nearly  cold,  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Lemon  Snow. — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  one 
pint  of  water  ;  add  one  pint  of  lemon  juice,  sugar  to  taste, 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  their  utmost  capacity. 

Stir  over  the  fire  a  moment  or  two,  then,  when  well 
amalgamated,  withdraw  from  the  fire,  beat  hard,  and  pour 
into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Frumety. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  wheat  for  three 
or  four  hours;  add  one  quart  of  milk,  with  two  spoonfuls 
of  flour  mixed  with  it,  two  eggs,  three  parts  of  a  small  tea- 
cupful  of  raisins  and  currants  (both  washed,  seeded,  chopped 
and  dredged),  a  little  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon. 

Boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve. 

Cream  Meringues. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  whipped  stiff, 
with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar ;   vanilla  flavoring. 

Line  the  bottom  of  your  baking-pan  with  stiff  wThite 
paper,  buttered  on  both  sides ;  place  on  this  oval  tin  rings 
(buttered)  the  size  you  want  your  meringues /  when  the 
meringue  is  very  stiff,  drop  into  the  rings,  which  should 
be  very  narrow,  so  as  just  to  keep  the  foundation  of  the 
meringue  in  shape ;  have  them  half  an  inch  apart ;  do 
not  shut  the  oven  door  closely,  but  leave  a  space  through 
which  you  can  watch  them  ;  when  they  are  a  light  yellow- 
brown,  take  them  out  and  cool  quickly ;  slip  a  thin-bladed 
knife  under  each,  scoop  out  the  soft  inside  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream. 

Apple  Trifle. — Peel,  core,  and  quarter  some  good  tart 
apples  of  nice  flavor,  and  stew  them  with  a  strip  of  orange 
and  a  strip  of  quince  peel,  sufficient  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  stewpan,  and  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.     407 

a  pound  to  one  pound. of  fruit ;  when  cooked  press  the  pulp 
through  a  sieve ;  and  when  cold,  dish,  and  cover  with  one 
pint  of  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  lemon  peel. 

Quince  Trifle. — Proceed  exactly  as  for  "Apple  Trifle." 

Pineapple  Trifle. — For  this  take  a  tin  of  preserved  pine, 
and  pound  the  fruit  to  a  paste,  with  loaf  sugar  to  taste ; 
add  the  juice,  press  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  arrange 
in  a  trifle  dish,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  as  before. 

Apricot  Trifle. — Use  tinned  or  preserved  apricots,  and 
proceed  as  above,  flavoring  the  cream  with  bitter  al- 
mond. 


Peach  Trifle.  —  This  is  best  made  of  fresh  peaches, 
peeled,  cored,  and  cut  in  quarters ;  they  should  be  well 
sugared,  arranged  in  a  trifle  dish  with  a  few  of  their  own 
blanched  kernels  among  them,  then  heaped  with  whipped 
cream,  as  above ;  the  cream  should  not  be  flavored ;  this 
trifle  should  be  set  on  the  ice  for  at  least  an  hour  before 
serving;  home-made  sponge  cake  should  be  served  with 
it. 

Orange  Trifle. — Peel  the  outside  rind  very  thin  from  a 
dozen  oranges,  and  put  to  steep  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle ; 
cover  it  with  good  cognac,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours ;  skin  and  seed  the  oranges,  and  reduce  to  a  pulp ; 
press  this  through  a  sieve,  sugar  to  taste,  arrange  in  a  dish, 
and  heap  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  the  orange 
brandy ;  ice  two  hours  before  serving. 

*  Grape  Trifle.  —  Take  two  pounds  of  nicely  flavored 
grapes,  crush,  sugar  to  taste,  and  let  them  stand  two  hours ; 
pulp  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  stones, 
put  into  a  trifle  dish,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  fla- 
vored with  curagoa  ;  ice  before  serving. 


408  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Raspberry  Trifle. — Use  fresh  raspberries,  and  proceed 
as  with  peaches ;  ice,  of  course. 

-Coffee  Blanc-mange. — One  quart  of  sweet,  rich  cream ; 
one  ounce  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  milk 
one  hour ;  four  tablespoonf  uls  of  very  strong  coffee  ;  three 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  three  quarters 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  or  sugar  to  taste. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  milk, 
and  stir  until  dissolved,  add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten  yolks, 
and  stir  until  smooth,  then  beat  in  the  coffee,  and  add  the 
scalding  milk  very  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time;  return 
to  the  inner  saucepan  (all  blanc-mange  should  be  cooked  a 
bain-marie)  and  heat  gently,  stirring  until  it  almost  boils; 
remove  from  the  tire,  turn  into  a  bowl,  and  whip  in  lightly 
and  briskly  the  beaten  whites ;  pour  into  moulds  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Chocolate  Blanc-mange. — Proceed  as  above,  substituting 
milk  for  cream,  and  chocolate  for  coffee. 

Almond  Blanc-mange. — One  quart  of  milk ;  one  ounce 
of  Cooper's  gelatine  soaked  in  boiling  milk  for  an  hour; 
three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar ;  three  ounces  of  almonds, 
blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortar  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  rose  water ;  there  must  be  at  least  four  bitter  almonds. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  then  add  the  soaked  gelatine 
and  the  almond  paste,  and  stir  all  together  ten  minutes 
before  putting  in  the  sugar;  when  the  gelatine  has  dis- 
solved, strain  the  blanc-mange  through  a  thin  muslin  bag, 
pressing  it  hard;  turn  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  set  in  a  cold  place. 

Ribbon  Blanc-mange. — Make  according  to  the  foregoing 
receipt,  and,  after  straining,  divide  into  five  portions,  col- 
oring one  green  with  essence  of  spinach,  one  pink  with 
cochineal,  one  yellow  with  yolk  of  eggy  and  one  brown 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.     409 

with  chocolate;  leave  the  fifth  uncolored;  when  quite 
cold  pour  into  a  mould  the  pink  first,  then  the  green,  then 
the  white,  then  the  yellow,  and  lastly  the  chocolate ;  set  in 
a  cold  place. 

Farina  Blanc-mange. — One  quart  of  rich  milk;  three 
eggs,  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  farina  wet  with  cold  water;  one  cupful  of 
sugar;  flavoring  to  taste;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  farina  and  salt,  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes  before  adding  the  yolks  beaten  with 
the  sugar;  boil  two  minutes  longer,  stirring  steadily;  re- 
move from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  whites,  then  the  flavoring; 
pour  into  moulds,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  eat  with  sugar 
and  cream  ;  the  eggs  and  flavoring  may  be  omitted. 

Corn-starch  Blanc-mange — Is  made  as  above,  but  only 
boiled  five  minutes  before  adding  the  yolks. 

Tapioca  Blanc-mange. — One  pint  of  rich,  fresh  milk ; 
three  quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  tapioca 
soaked  in  cold  water  four  hours ;  two  teaspoonf uls  of  bit- 
ter almonds  or  other  flavoring;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  tapioca ;  when  it 
has  dissolved,  add  the  sugar ;  boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  take  off  the  fire,  and  beat  well  until 
nearly  cold ;  flavor  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Sago  Blanc-mange. — Make  as  above. 

Arrow-root  Blanc-mange. — Three  cupfuls  of  new  milk  ; 
two  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  arrow-root  wet  with  cold 
milk;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  flavoring  to  taste,  and  a 
little  white  wine. 

Mix  the  arrow-root  to  a  smooth  batter,  with  one  cupful 
of  the  milk ;  heat  the  rest  to  boiling ;  add  the  arrow-root, 
stirring  constantly ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  put  in  the 

18 


410  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

sugar,  and  cook  two   minutes  longer;   remove,  beat  five 
minutes,  flavor,  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Jaime-mange. — One  ounce  of  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  one  hour ;  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
beaten  very  light ;  one  cupful  of  boiling  water ;  one  cup- 
ful of  white  wine  or  pale  sherry ;  one  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar;  one  pinch  of  ground  cinnamon;  one  orange,  juice, 
and  half  the  grated  peel;  one  lemon,  juice,  and  one  third 
the  grated  peel. 

Stir  the  soaked  gelatine  into  the  boiling  water  until  dis- 
solved, take  from  the  fire,  and  beat  gradually  into  the 
yolks ;  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  with  the  sugar,  orange, 
lemon,  and  cinnamon  ;  stir  ewer  a  clear  fire  until  boiling 
hot,  put  in  the  wine,  and  strain  through  a  piece  of  tarlatan  ; 
put  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 

Calf's -foot  Jelly. — Four  calf's  feet,  cleaned  carefully; 
four  quarts  of  water;  one  pint  of  wine;  sugar  (loaf)  to 
taste ;  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten ;  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

Boil  the  calf's  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  to 
one  half ;  strain,  and  let  the  liquor  stand  for  twelve  hours ; 
skim  off  the  fat  carefully,  and  remove  the  dregs;  melt 
slowly  in  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal  kettle ;  add  the  season- 
ing, sugar,  and  whipped  whites  ;  boil  fast  for  twelve  min- 
utes, skimming  well ;  strain  through  a  double  flannel  jelly- 
bag  (i.  e.)  conical  in  shape),  which  must  be  suspended  in 
some  way  above  a  deep  bowl ;  do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  the 
slower  the  jelly  strains  the  clearer  it  will  be. 

Claret  Jelly.  —  One  bottle  of  ordinary  red  wine;  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  one  small  jar  of 
red-currant  jelly;  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  one  ounce 
of  isinglass  (more  will  be  required  in  hot  weather);  one 
wineglassful  of  brandy. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.    411 

Boil  together  a  few  minutes,  taking  care  that  the  red- 
currant  jelly  is  perfectly  dissolved,  and  thoroughly  mixed 
with  the  other  ingredients  ;  usually  ten  minutes  is  enough 
for  this ;  strain  it  into  a  mould,  and  let  it  get  cold ;  serve 
with  cream  sauce,  made  as  follows :  To  one  pint  of  cream 
add  a  little  grated  lemon  peel ;  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  lemon 
juice;  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy  (burned);  and  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  grated  and  browned  cake  crumbs ;  lady-fingers 
are  best ;  this  sauce  should  be  rather  thick,  and  if  properly 
made  is  delicious. 

Riljbon  Jelly. — One  quart  of  clear  calf's-foot  jelly  ;  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  cochineal ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  spinach ;  one  cupful  of  white  blanc-mange. 

Divide  the  jelly  into  three  equal  portions,  coloring  one 
green,  the  second  red,  and  leaving  the  third  of  its  natural 
pale  amber;  wet  a  mould  with  cold  water,  pour  in  some 
red  jelly,  set  on  the  ice  to  harden,  then  pour  in  the  am- 
ber, then  green,  and  finally  the  white  blanc-mange,  which 
should  form  a  broad  base ;  set  the  mould  on  the  ice  be- 
tween each  layer,  so  that  the  "ribbons"  may  be  distinctly 
set  and  separated ;  then  put  on  the  ice,  cover,  and  leave 
until  firm. 

Orange  Jelly. — Two  oranges,  juice  of  both,  and  grated 
rind  of  one;  one  lemon,  juice  and  peel;  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water ;  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  loaf  sugar ;  one  small 
cupful  of  white  wine;  one  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  into  a  bowl,  and  put  with 
it  the  grated  peel  and  cinnamon ;  pour  over  the  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  strain, 
add  the  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  gelatine, 
and  when  this  is  well  dissolved,  take  the  saucepan  from 
the  fire;  strain  through  a  double  flannel  jelly-bag  into 
moulds. 

Wine  Jelly. — Two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar;  one  pint  of 


412  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

wine,  pale  sherry  or  white  wine;  one  pint  of  cold  water; 
one  pint  of  Coxe's  gelatine;  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 
grated  peel  of  one ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water ;  one  pinch 
of  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  water  one  hour,  add  to  this  the 
sugar,  lemon,  and  cinnamon,  pour  over  all  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved ;  put  in  the  wine,  strain  through  a  double  flannel 
bag,  pour  into  moulds,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Cider  Jelly — Is  made  as  above,  substituting  cider  for 
wine. 

Bird's-Nest  in  Jelly  ("Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold").— One  quart  of  clear  jelly;  three  cupfuls  of  white 
blanc-mange ;  fresh  rinds  of  four  oranges;  one  cupful  of 
loaf  sugar ;  nine  empty  egg-shells,  or,  better  still,  tin  moulds 
exactly  the  shape  and  size  of  eggs. 

Make  the  blanc-mange  and  pour  into  the  egg-shells  or 
moulds ;  set  away  in  a  cold  place ;  cut  the  rind  from  the 
oranges  in  long  narrow  strips,  and  stew  in  enough  water 
to  cover  them  until  they  are  tender ;  add  a  cupful  of  loaf 
sugar  and  stew  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer ;  lay  them 
out  upon  a  dish  to  cool,  taking  care  not  to  break  them; 
the  next  morning  fill  a  round  glass  dish  two  thirds  full  of 
jelly,  reserving  a  cupful ;  take  the  blanc-mange  out  of  the 
shells,  and  pile  in  the  middle ;  lay  the  orange  peel  round 
them  in  the  form  of  the  nest ;  pour  the  remaining  jelly- 
over  the  straw  and  eggs,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  to 
form ;  when  quite  firm,  turn  out  on  a  round  dish.  Yery 
pretty. 

Prune  Mould,  No.  1. — Take  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of 
good  prunes  (Provencal  are  the  best) ;  put  them  on  the  fire 
covered  with  cold  water ;  let  them  boil  for  a  minute,  then 
take  them  off,  drain  them,  and  take  out  the  stones ;  crack 
the  stones,  take  out  the  kernels,  and  blanch  them  in  boil- 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES.    413 

ing  water  a  minute  to  take  off  the  brown  skin  ;  dissolve 
half  a  packet  of  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  put  it  on  the 
fire  with  four  ounces  of  sugar;  let  it  boil  five  minutes; 
color  with  cochineal  and  two  glassfuls  of  red  wine ;  place 
the  plums  with  a  kernel  on  the  outside  of  each  in  a  mould, 
and  pour  in  the  liquid ;  when  set  turn  it  out,  and  fill  up 
the  hole  in  the  middle  with  whipped  cream. 

Prune  Mould,  Xo.  2. — Half  a  pound  of  good  prunes, 
two  ounces  of  white  sugar,  a  piece  of  lemon,  and  water 
euough  to  cover  all. 

Stew  in  a  saucepan  till  tender;  remove  stones;  strain 
the  pulp  through  a  sieve;  put  back  the  kernels  (blanched) ; 
add  half  an  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine,  a  wineglassful 
of  red  wine,  and  boil  all  together;  ornament  a  mould  with 
blanched  almonds;  pour  in  the  jelly  and  set  on  ice ;  turn 
out,  and  serve  cold. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

RULES    FOR   PRESERVES    AND    FRUIT    JELLIES. 

Use  none  but  porcelain-lined  preserving-kettles. 

Select  tine,  fresh  fruit ;  pick  it  over  carefully,  and  be 
sure  that  it  is  quite  dry. 

Use  the  best  loaf  sugar. 

Put  up  the  preserves  in  rather  small  jars,  of  glass  or 
stone  china;  cover  with  brahdied  tissue  paper  pressed 
closely  to  the  preserve ;  then  put  on  a  cover  of  thick  paper. 

Keep  all  preserves  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  closet;  watch 
them  carefully  for  several  weeks  after  making  them,  and 
if  they  show  signs  of  fermentation  boil  them  over,  add- 
ing more  sugar. 

Fill  all  preserve  and  jelly  jars  to  the  very  top. 

If  jellies  are  not  very  firm,  after  six  or  eight  hours' 
standing,  set  the  jars  in  the  sun  with  bits  of  glass  to  cover 
them.  This  may  be  done  day  after  day  until  the  jelly  is 
properly  firm. 

If  absolutely  obliged  to  use  a  bell-metal  kettle  for  pre- 
serving, scour  it  with  sand  just  before  using  it;  then  set 
it  over  the  fire  with  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a  handful  of 
salt  in  it ;  let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  scour  the  whole  of 
the  inside  of  the  kettle  with  it ;  then  rinse  out  the  kettle, 
wipe  carefully,  and  put  in  the  preserves ;  the  instant  they 
are  cooked,  remove  them  from  the  kettle,  and  wash  it 
clean,  even  though  you  intend  to  return  the  syrup  to  it  in 
five  minutes.  

Apricot  Glacees. —  Prepare  exactly  like  peach  glacees 
(page  427).     They  are  very  good. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  415 

Apricot  Paste  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Peel  and  stone 
the  apricots,  and  cook  in  a  little  water  until  they  are  quite 
tender  and  transparent;  then  mash  and  pass  through  a 
hair  sieve,  drain  dry,  weigh,  and  pound  them,  in  a  mortar 
with  an  equal  weight  of  powdered  sugar ;  spread  the  paste 
upon  flat  dishes  to  dry;  after  several  days  cut  it  into 
rounds,  powder  with  sugar,  dry  again,  and  preserve  in 
boxes. 

Apricot  Marmalade. — Take  firm,  ripe  apricots,  stone 
and  cut  out  the  bad  parts  of  the  skin,  cut  in  two,  and  put 
into  a  preserving-kettle  in  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and 
loaf  sugar,  allowing  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit ;  cook  slowly  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  a  little 
before  removing  the  kettle  from  the  fire  add  one  half  of 
the  kernels,  blanched ;  stir  well,  pack  in  pots,  and  when 
cold  close  and  tie  up  as  usual. 

Apricot  Cheese — Is  made  precisely  as  you  make  "  Quince 
Cheese  "  (page  420). 

Apple  Ginger. — Take  two  pounds  of  pippins  or  other 
hard  apples ;  pare,  core,  and  cut  them  into  eight  pieces, 
dropping  them  into  cold  water  as  they  are  cut ;  make 
a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  a  little  water, 
and  four  ounces  of  ginger  (or  some  piece  ginger);  stew 
the  apples  slowly  until  transparent,  put  them  into  a  jar, 
and  strain  the  juice  over  them. 

Apple  Jelly. — Pare,  core,  and  quarter  the  apples,  and 
put  them,  together  with  the  skins  and  cores,  in  a  jar  in  a 
slow  oven ;  when  quite  soft,  strain  through  a  coarse  mus 
lin  bag,  pressing  hard  to  extract  all  the  flavor;  then  add 
some  lemon  juice  and  set  on  the  fire  again,  allowing  to 
every  pint  of  liquor  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  prepared  as  in 
the  receipt  for  "  Fruit  Jellies  "  (page  433) ;  let  the  jelly  come 
to  a  boil ;  then  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  roll  the  glass- 


416  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

es  in  hot  water,  arid  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid;  cover 
with  brandied  tissue  paper,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Preserved  Chestnuts. — Parboil  fifty  fine,  large  chestnuts 
until  you  can  prick  them  easily  with  a  fork ;  then  take 
them  from  the  fire,  peel  and  cleanse  them  thoroughly,  and 
throw  them  into  ice-cold  water  in  which  you  have  previ- 
ously squeezed  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon  ;  after  they 
have  remained  in  the  water  long  enough  to  become  slight- 
ly hardened,  throw  them  into  a  syrup  made  of  sugar,  add- 
ing, at  the  same  time,  the  juice  of  another  lemon,  and  two 
or  three  teaspoonf  uls  of  orange-flower  syrup ;  let  all  cook 
together  slowly  until  the  mixture  has  acquired  a  certain 
stiffness,  when  it  may  be  removed  from  the  fire  and  put 
into  jars. 

Preserved  Cherries. — Stong  the  cherries,  preserving  ev- 
ery drop  of  jnice;  weigh  the  fruit,  allowing  pound  for 
pound  of  sugar ;  put  a  layer  of  fruit  for  one  of  sugar 
until  all  is  used  up ;  pour  over  the  juice,  and  boil  gently 
until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken.  The  short-stem  red 
cherries  are  best  for  this  preserve.  Sweet  cherries  will 
not  do. 

Preserved  Strawberries. — Pound  for  pound ;  put  them 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  over  a  slow  fire,  until  the  sugar 
melts;  boil  fast  twenty-five  minutes;  take  out  the  fruit 
in  perforated  skimmers,  and  fill  small  jars  three  quarters 
full;  boil  and  skim  the  syrup  five  minutes  longer,  fill  up 
the  jars,  and  seal  while  hot ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Preserved  Pears. — Pare,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  pre- 
serve as  you  preserve  peaches  (receipt  No.  1,  page  426). 

Preserved  Crab  Apples.  —  Choose  for  preserving  the 
red  Siberian  crab ;  pick  over  carefully,  selecting  the  per- 
fect ones,  leaving  the  stems,  and  put  into  a  preserve  ket- 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  417 

tie  with  enough  warm  water  to  cover  them ;  heat  this  to 
boiling  slowly,  and  simmer  until  the  skins  break;  drain, 
and  skim  them,  then  extract  the  cores  through  the  blos- 
som ends ;  weigh  them,  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar  and  a  teacupf ul  of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit ; 
boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  the  scum  ceases  to 
rise ;  put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer  until 
the  apples  are  a  clear  red  and  tender;  take  out  with  a 
skimmer,  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool,  add  to  the  syrup  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  to  three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  boil  un- 
til clear  and  rich  ;  fill  your  jars  three  quarters  full  of  the 
apples,  pour  the  syrup  in,  and  when  cold  tie  up. 

Preserved  Ginger. — Pare  the  roots  of  green  ginger,  and 
lay  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes;  boil  in  three  waters, 
changing  the  hot  for  cold  every  time  until  very  tender ; 
drain,  and  lay  in  ice-water.  Allow  for  the  syrup  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pound  of  ginger,  and 
a  cupful  of  water  for  each  pound  of  sugar;  boil  and  skim 
until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise  ;  when  the  syrup  is  cold,  wipe 
the  ginger  dry,  and  drop  it  in  ;  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  drain  off,  and  reheat  the  syrup;  this  time  put  the 
ginger  in  when  it  is  blood-warm;  do  not  look  at  it  again 
for  two  days ;  then  reboil  the  syrup,  and  pour  over  the 
ginger  scalding  hot;  in  a  week  drain  off  once  more,  boil, 
and  add  again,  while  hot,  to  the  ginger;  cover  closely. 
It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  fortnight. 

Preserved  Figs  a  la  Louisiana. — The  weight  of  ripe 
figs  in  sugar ;  the  peel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two ;  a 
little  ginger. 

Cover  the  figs  with  cold  water  for  twelve  hours ;  then 
simmer,  in  water  enough  to  cover  them,  until  tender,  and 
spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden  ;  make  a  syrup 
of  the  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  cold  water  to  every  pound ; 
boil  until  free  from  scum,  put  in  the  figs,  and  simmer  ten 
minutes;  take  them  out,  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the 

18* 


418  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

sun  ;  add  the  lemons  and  ginger,  boil  the  syrup  thick,  give 
the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  minutes,  and  fill  the  jars 
three  quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top  ;  fill  up  with  the  boil- 
ing syrup,  cover,  and  when  cold  tie  up. 

Preserved  Green  Gages. — Wipe  the  fruit  with  a  cloth, 
and  boil  one  pound  of  gages  in  a  syrup  made  of  water 
and  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  when  the  fruit  is  quite  cooked 
make  a  fresh  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit,  and  in  it  boil  the  fruit  until  clear ;  after  putting 
the  fruit  into  the  jars  boil  the  syrup  once  more,  and  pour 
over  the  gages. 

Preserved  Egg  Plums.  —  Four  pounds  of  fine  egg 
plums  with  their  stems;  four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 

"Wash  the  plums  in  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry,  carefully ; 
put  the  sugar  on  a  slow  fire  in  the  preserving-kettle,  with 
as  much  water  as  will  melt  the  sugar,  and  let  it  simmer 
slowly,  then  prick  each  plum  thoroughly  with  a  needle,  or 
a  fork  with  fine  prongs,  and  place  a  layer  of  them  in  the 
syrup;  let  them  cook  until  they  lose  their  color  a  little  and 
the  skins  begin  to  break,  then  lift  them  out  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  place  them  singly  in  a  large  dish  to 
cool;  then  put  another  layer  of  plums  in  the  syrup,  and 
let  them  cook  and  cool  in  the  same  manner,  until  the 
whole  are  done  ;  as  they  cool,  carefully  replace  the  broken 
skins  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  plums ;  when 
the  last  layer  is  finished  return  the  first  to  the  kettle  and  boil 
until  transparent;  do  the  same  with  each  layer;  while  the 
latest  cooked  are  cooling  place  the  first  in  glass  jars ;  when 
all  are  done  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them  ;  when  they  are 
cold  close  as  usual ;  the  jelly  should  be  of  the  color  and 
consistency  of  rich  wine  jelly. 

Preserved  Damsons. —  Four  pounds  of  damsons  care- 
fully   picked    over    and    wiped ;    four   pounds   of    loaf 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  419 

Put  on  the  sugar  first  with  a  little  water;  when  it  is  hot 
add  the  fruit  and  let  it  boil  until  quite  red;  take  out  the 
damsons,  and  put  them  on  a  dish  in  the  sun  while  the 
syrup  boils  twenty  minutes  longer,  then  fill  your  jars 
nearly  full  with  fruit,  and  pour  in  the  syrup. 

Preserved  Quinces  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne),  No.  1. — 
Pound  for  pound  of  peeled,  cored,  and  quartered  quinces, 
and  loaf  sugar. 

Put  the  fruit  (before  paring  or  cutting)  into  cold  water, 
and  let  it  remain  on  the  fire  until  scalded  ;  when  soft,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  and  let  the  quinces  cool,  then  quarter, 
core,  and  lastly  pare  them ;  prepare  the  syrup,  pound  for 
pound,  and  boil  it  quickly  that  it  may  not  turn  dark  ;  the 
syrup  must  not  be  allowed  to  jelly. 

Preserved  Quinces,  No.  2. — Wash  and  wipe  the  quinces, 
then  weigh,  peel,  core,  and  quarter  them ;  put  the  parings 
and  seeds  on  to  boil  in  a  little  water,  then  put  the  cut-up 
quinces  into  a  preserving -kettle  with  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  until  you  can  pierce  them 
with  a  fork;  then  take  them  from  the  kettle,  strain  into 
the  water  in  the  kettle  the  water  in  which  the  parings 
and  seeds  have  been  boiled,  put  the  parboiled  quinces  into 
another  preserving -kettle,  and  to  every  pound  (equal 
quantities)  of  fruit  and  sugar  add  one  pint  of  the  quince 
water;  boil  the  quinces  until  clear,  then  take  out  with  a 
skimmer,  and  put  upon  clean  dishes  to  drain ;  boil  the 
syrup  until  it  jellies ;  if  there  is  more  quince  water  than 
is  needed  for  the  weight  of  fruit  and  sugar  it  should  be 
added  in  the  beginning,  allowing  a  pound  more  of  sugar 
for  each  pint  of  water;  put  the  quinces  into  jars, pour  the 
boiling  hot  jelly  over  them,  and,  when  cold,  close  as  usual ; 
if  there  be  more  jelly  than  suffices  to  cover  the  fruit,  put 
it  into  separate  jars ;  it  is  very  good. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  the  quinces, 


420  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

stewing  skins,  cores,  and  seeds  in  a  vessel  by  themselves, 
with  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  when  these  have 
simmered  long  enough,  strain  this  water  through  a  thick 
cloth ;  then  put  the  quinces  into  a  preserving-kettle,  pour 
over  them  the  quince  water  when  almost  cold,  and  boil,  stir- 
ring the  quinces,  and  mashing  them  with  a  wooden  spoon 
as  they  become  soft ;  to  every  three  pounds  of  fruit  you 
may  allow  the  juice  of  three  oranges;  when  all  is  reduced 
to  a  smooth  paste  stir  in  a  scant  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit ;  boil  ten  minutes  more, 
stirring  constantly ;  take  off,  and  when  cool  put  into  small 
jars ;  when  cold,  cover  and  seal  as  usual. 

Quince  Cheese—Is  quince  marmalade  boiled  down  very 
thick,  and  packed  tightly  into"  jars ;  it  will  turn  out  firm 
as  cheese. 

Preserved  Apples. —Choose  firm,  well-flavored  pippins, 
and  preserve  exactly  as  you  do  quinces,  adding,  how- 
ever, the  juice  of  three  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of 
fruit. 

Preserved  Fox  Grapes. — Split  each  grape,  and  take  out 
the  seeds,  pour  boiling  water  upon  them,  add  a  pinch  of 
alum,  scatter  a  few  grape  leaves  among  them,  and  cover 
close;  let  them  stand  until  they  become  yellow,  then  make 
a  syrup,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of 
grapes ;  drain  the  fruit,  and  put  into  it  the  boiling  syrup, 
keep  the  kettle  covered  while  boiling;  put  into  jars,  and, 
when  cold,  close  and  tie  up  as  usual. 

Oranges,  Whole,  in  Syrup. — Take  six  ounces  of  white 
sugar,  one  gill  of  water,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the 
rind  of  one,  and  of  half  an  orange,  peeled  thin. 

Boil  until  the  syrup  clarifies,  and  pour  hot  over  eight 
oranges  peeled  to  the  pulp ;  a  little  cochineal  makes  them 
prettier. 


PEESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  421 

Florida  Lemon  Preserve. — Grate  the  lemons  to  break 
the  oil-vessels,  soak  them  for  two  days  in  salt  and  water, 
and  after  this  for  one  day  in  fresh  water;  drain  them  well, 
and  weigh  them,  allowing  each  pound  of  fruit  one  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  water  to  every 
pound  of  sugar. 

Ogeechee  Limes. — Boil  the  limes  until  soft,  and  push  out 
quickly  the  head  of  each  while  hot ;  then  make  a  syrup 
of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  water,  and  boil  it 
until  clear;  then  throw  in  the  limes,  and  let  them  boil  un- 
til transparent. 

Green  Sweetmeat,  No.  1. — Lay  as  many  mangoes  as  you 
require  in  strong  salt  water  for  ten  days,  slit  them,  take  out 
the  seeds,  throw  them  into  fresh  water,  and  let  them  remain 
one  or  two  days,  then  boil  them  in  vinegar  for  several 
hours,  after  which  soak  them  for  a  day  or  two  in  fresh 
water,  changing  the  water  every  day,  or  until  no  vinegar 
remains ;  make  a  syrup  of  ginger  tea  and  loaf  sugar,  allow- 
ing three  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  of  melon;  boil  for  sev- 
eral hours,  or  until  quite  clear. 

Green  Sioeetmeat,  No.  2. —  Take  a  thick  watermelon 
rind,  pare  off  the  outer  rind,  cut  it  into  any  funny  shape, 
and  throw  into  a  bell-metal  skillet  with  cold  water  and  a 
piece  of  alum  the  size  of  an  egg  to  every  three  pounds  of 
rind ;  let  it  boil  until  tender,  and  the  rind  becomes  of  a 
pale  green  color,  then  pour  off  the  alum,  and  let  it  stand 
in  cold  water  twelve  hours,  or  longer  if  the  alum  is  not 
soaked  out ;  then  weigh  the  rind,  and  to  every  pound  of 
rind  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar,  and  throw  them 
into  fresh  ginger  tea,  a  pint  to  the  pound  ;  let  it  settle, 
and  when  clear  add  mace  and  lemon  peel;  boil  it  until 
sufficiently  done,  of  which  you  may  judge  by  observing  if 
the  sugar  has  penetrated  the  rind,  taking  care  always  to 
have  syrup  enough  to  cover  the  rind;  let  it  stand  some 
weeks  before  usincr  it. 


422  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Beaufort  Green  -  Orange  Preserve.  —  Green  oranges, 
plucked  from  the  trees  in  September  or  October;  grate 
(with  a  medium  grater)  all  over  lightly  but  thoroughly ; 
throw  each  orange,  after  grating  it,  into  salt  and  water 
until  all  are  grated,  then,  with  a  sharp  penknife,  cut  a  hole 
in  the  stem  end  of  the  orange,  and  cut  out  all  the  pulp  in 
the  centre  which  contains  the  seeds;  then  scoop  out  with 
a  small  silver  spoon  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  possible,  with- 
out injuring  the  orange,  which  must  keep  its  shape  in- 
tact. Weigh  the  oranges,  and  to  every  pound  allow  two 
pounds  of  the  best  sugar ;  measure  a  pint  of  water  to  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  stir  it  well,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil 
until  it  forms  a  thin  syrup ;  put  the  oranges  in  the  syrup 
carefully,  one  by  one,  and  let  them  boil  steadily  but  slowly 
all  day ;  if  they  boil  rapidly  they  break ;  to  ascertain  if  they 
are  done,  take  up  one  in  a  ladle  and  look  at  it  in  a  strong 
light;  if  there  are  no  opaque  spots  in  it,  it  is  done;  then 
pierce  with  a  straw ;  if  the  straw  passes  through  them 
easily  there  is  no  doubt.  Shaddocks  are  preserved  in  the 
same  manner. 

Florida- Orange  Marmalade. — The  large,  thick-skinned, 
sour  orange  is  the  best  for  this  marmalade.  Grate  the 
oranges  slightly  to  break  the  oil- vessels;  then  peel,  cutting 
the  peel  into  long,  very  thin  strips ;  then  put  the  peel  on 
to  boil,  changing  the  water  four  times ;  meanwhile  pre- 
pare the  pulp  ;  this  is  done  by  slitting  down  each  fig  or 
compartment  of  the  orange  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrap- 
ing out  the  pulp  free  from  skin  or  seeds;  after  the  peel 
has  boiled  sufficiently,  strain  off  the  water,  and  pound 
one  half  of  it  in  a  mortar ;  cut  the  other  half  into  fine 
shreds ;  mix  these  with  the  pulp,  and  measure  it ;  allow 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pint  of  pulp  and  peel 
mixed ;  put  it  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it  constantly  until 
done. 

Orange    Marmalade,   Dundee. — To    every    pound    of 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  423 

grated  orange  peel  add  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar ; 
cut  and  squeeze  the  oranges  over  a  strainer,  and  put  the 
seeds  into  a  pitcher,  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  to 
stand  all  night;  boil  the  peel  in  several  waters  until 
clear  and  almost  free  from  bitter  taste ;  let  all  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours,  then  cut  the  peel  into  long,  thin  strips; 
add  the  sugar,  with  a  small  tumbler  of  water,  to  the  jelly 
made  by  the  seeds  and  juice,  and  boil  for  one  hour,  tak- 
ing off  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises. 

Orange  MarmMade,  Sorrento. — Weigh  the  oranges,  then 
grate  them  to  break  the  oil-vessels ;  cut  them  lengthwise, 
taking  out  the  seeds  and  pulp  ;  put  the  skins  on  to  boil, 
changing  the  water  once  ;  when  boiled  tender,  pound  two 
thirds  in  a  mortar,  and  cut  the  rest  into  narrow  strips;  put 
in  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  that  the  oranges  weighed  be- 
fore grating;  wet  the  sugar  with  a  little  water,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  then  put  into  it  the  juice  and  scraped  pulp, 
the  pounded  skin  and  the  chipped  skin,  and  boil  it,  stir- 
ring constantly  towards  the  last. 

St.  Martin's  Orange  Marmalade. — Take  sour  Sicily 
oranges,  twelve  pounds;  twelve  pounds  of  sugar. 

Pare  the  oranges  down  like  apples,  and  soak  the  peel  in 
five  or  six  quarts  of  water,  until  tender ;  throw  the  water 
away,  after  skimming  it  off ;  cut  the  peel  into  small  strips  ; 
put  the  sugar  in  a  kettle,  and  cut  the  oranges  in  half,  and 
take  a  small,  strong  spoon,  and  take  out  the  juice  and 
pulp,  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar,  carefully  taking  out  all 
the  seeds ;  take  the  white  skins  and  throw  over  them  two 
quarts  of  warm  water;  soak  until  they  are  soft,  mash  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  you  will  have  about  one  and  three 
quarter  pounds;  then  take  the  strained  pulp,  the  peel, the 
sugar,  and  the  juice,  and  boil  all  together ;  after  it  com- 
mences to  boil  hard,  it  should  boil  for  twent}^  minutes  or 
half  an  hour,  until  quite  thick  ;  put  into  glasses. 


424  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Orange- and- Apple  Marmalade. — Two  dozen  oranges, 
weighed,  peeled,  freed  from  seeds  and  all  the  tough  white 
pulp  ;  boil  the  peel  for  half  an  hour,  then  take  off  all 
the  white  inside  skin,  leaving. only  the  thin  yellow  rind ; 
cut  this  into  chips  the  thickness  of  a  straw,  and  put  them 
into  cold  water  to  extract  the  bitterness ;  change  the 
water  several  times;  then  add  to  the  oranges  one 
pound  of  grated  apples,  and  the  wTeight  of  the  oranges 
in  sugar,  with  another  pound  for  the  apples  ;  put  them 
over  a  moderate  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle,  throw  in 
the  rind  chips,  and  let  the  whole  cook  until  clear  and 
thick. 

Preserved  Sour -Orange  Peel. — Rasp  the  peel  wTith  a 
coarse  grater  to  break  the  oil-vessels,  then  cut  the  orange 
into  quarters,  taking  out  all  of  the  inside ;  put  the  peel  in 
brine  for  several  days,  then  extract  the  salt  by  soaking 
it  in  fresh  water  several  days,  changing  it  twice  a  day; 
make  a  thin  syrup  and  boil  it  down  ;  put  in  the  peel, 
and  boil  it  until  you  can  pierce  it  with  a  straw ;  when 
done,  put  the  pieces  in  glass  jars,  with  plenty  of  syrup; 
allow  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pound 
of  peel. 

Preserved  Orange  Blossoms. — Clean  fresh  orange  blos- 
soms, and  cut  them  up,  mincing  them  rather  finely  ; 
sprinkle  them  well  with  lemon  juice,  and  cook  with 
finely  sifted  white  sugar  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
water,  taking  care  not  to  throw  in  the  orange  blossoms 
until  the  syrup  begins  to  froth;  then  let  all  boil  togeth- 
er, beating  smartly  the  while  with  a  wooden  spatula, 
and  withdraw  the  casserole  from  the  fire  the  moment 
the  mixture  begins  to  swell  into  bubbles  ;  it  should  then 
be  placed  in  small  pretty  paper  or  porcelain  boxes,  or 
in  small  tin  forms,  shaped  like  tiny  oranges,  or  large 
orange  blossoms.  From  these  forms  it  can  be  removed 
when  cold. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  425 

Preserved  Hoses. — Take  fresh  rose  petals,  dip  them  in 
rose  water,  mash  them,  and  boil  the  juice  with  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  crystallized  sugar  ;  color  this  syrup  with 
cochineal  or  extract  of  crimson  roses,  and  just  before  tak- 
ing it  from  the  fire  dip  into  it,  one  by  one,  some  large, 
firm,  fresh  rose  petals ;  they  will  candy  beautifully  ;  when 
cold,  they  should  be  lightly  dusted  with  finely  sifted  crys- 
tallized sugar.  The  conserve  may  be  put  into  jars  with 
brandied  paper  on  the  top. 

Preserved  Violets.  —  Take  the  freshest  and  most  fra- 
grant violets,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  in  order  to 
extract  the  color  and  savor ;  have  ready  a  syrup  of  fine- 
ly clarified  sugar ;  add  to  this  when  tepid  the  juice  of 
the  violets,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  together 
with  a  very  few  fresh  violets  ;  put  all  again  on  the  fire 
and  cook  for  some  moments,  beating  or  stirring  hard  all 
the  time  with  a  wooden  spatula ;  it  should  be  withdrawn 
from  the  fire  the  moment  the  syrup  begins  to  swell  into 
bubbles. 

Peaches  Preserved  Whole. — Fifteen  pounds  of  cling- 
stone peaches,  pared,  but  not  cut  up  or  stoned  ;  seven  and 
a  half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 

Dissolve  one  half  of  the  sugar  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible ;  set  the  kettle  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to 
simmer  throw  in  a  layer  of  peaches ;  let  them  boil  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes ;  then  take  them  out,  free  from 
syrup,  and  lay  them  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool ;  throw  in  an- 
other layer,  and  so  on  until  all  are  cooked  ;  after  you  have 
boiled  two  or  three  layers  the  syrup  will  have  increased ; 
by  degrees  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and,  when  all  are 
done,  boil  up  the  syrup  until  a  little  thick ;  then,  as 
you  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  stir  in  carefully  and 
thoroughly  half  a  pint  of  alcohol;  put  the  peaches  into 
jars ;  pour  on  the  boiling  syrup,  and  when  cold  cover  and 
seal  as  usual. 


426  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Preserved  Peaches,  No.  1. — Fine  yellow  peaches,  pared 
and  stoned;  equal  weight  of  loaf  sugar  with  the  pared 
and  stoned  peaches. 

Put  a  layer  of  loaf  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  a  preserving- 
kettle,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on  until  the  kettle  is 
full ;  put  the  kettle  in  a  cool  corner  of  the  range  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  ;  then  boil  the  fruit  until  it  is  clear  and 
thoroughly  cooked;  then  take  out  the  pieces  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer,  and  lay  on  dry  dishes;  boil  the  syrup  in 
the  kettle  until  quite  thick;  fill  the  jars  half  full  with 
fruit,  pour  over  the  syrup,  adding  one  quarter  of  the  ker- 
nels which  have  been  blanched  and  boiled  until  soft  in 
enough  water  to  barely  cover  them  ;  when  cold,  cover  and 
close  as  usual. 

Preserved  Peaches,  No.  2. — Proceed  precisely  as  above, 
only  adding  the  water  in  which  the  kernels  have  been 
boiled  to  the  fruit ,  and  sugar  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is 
melted. 

Peach  Marmalade. — Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit ; 
heat  slowly  to  draw  out  the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from 
the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon. ;  after  it  is  hot,  boil  up 
quickly,  still  stirring,  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  add 
then  the  sugar,  allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  each 
pound  of  fruit;  boil  up  well  for  five  minutes,  taking  off 
every  particle  of  scum  ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  for  every 
three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  the  water  in  which  one  fourth 
of  the  kernels  have  been  boiled  and  steeped ;  stew  all 
together  ten  minutes,  stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  take 
from  the  fire ;  put  up  in  small  jars,  and,  when  cold,  cover 
and  close  as  usual. 

Peach  Figs. — Pare  the  peaches,  and  cut  them  in  half ; 
weigh  them,  and  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  eveiy 
pound  of  fruit ;  put  the  fruit  and  sugar  alternately  into 
the  kettle,  and  heat  all  gradually  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 


PRESERVES  AND  ERUIT  JELLIES.  427 

solved;  then  boil  until  clear;  take  the  peaches  out  with 
a  perforated  skimmer,  lay  them  on  dishes,  without  any  of 
the  syrup,  in  the  sun,  and  turn  them  frequently  until  dry, 
putting  them  on  dry  dishes  as  the  syrup  drains  away  from 
them ;  when  dry  enough  to  handle,  pack  them  in  drums 
or  boxes,  with  layers  of  sifted  sugar,  beginning  and  ending 
with  sugar  ;  if  you  have  any  syrup  left  you  may  boil  more 
peaches  in  it. 

Candied  Peaches.  —  Four  pounds  of  peaches,  peeled 
and  cut  in  quarters ;  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  sugar  and  peaches  in  a  very  little  water,  until 
a  straw  can  pierce  them  ;  take  them  from  the  kettle  with 
a  perforated  skimmer,  roll  each  piece  in  sifted  sugar,  place 
them  on  dishes,  the  pieces  to  lie  a  little  apart  to  dry ;  put 
the  dishes  in  a  sunny  room — not  in  the  sun,  but  where  the 
air  can  blow  over  them ;  turn  the  pieces  from  time  to  time, 
and  sift  a  little  more  sugar  over  them ;  they  will  take 
some  days  to  dry  and  crystallize  ;  use  mosquito  netting  to 
keep  off  the  flies. 

Peach  Jam. — For  every  pound  of  peaches  allow  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  pare  the  peaches  and  slice 
line ;  put  them  on  the  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle  with  a 
little  water,  about  a  pint  to  a  peck  of  fruit ;  boil  quickly, 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning ;  when  it  is  easily 
mashed,  add  the  sugar ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  again 
stir  incessantly,  and  do  not  let  the  fire  be  too  strong,  or  it 
will  scorch ;  stir  it  until  it  is  a  smooth  pulp,  and  put  it  in 
wide-mouthed  jars ;  when  cold,  paste  the  jars  up  tight. 

Peach  Glacees  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne).  —  Take  fine 
peaches,  not  quite  ripe,  peel,  and  put  into  an  earthen  pot; 
pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  cover  the 
pot  closely,  and  set  away  for  four  hours  ;  clarify  some  loaf 
sugar,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit ; 
put  your  peaches  into  the  syrup  and  let  them  cook  until 


428  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

they  are  tender,  but  not  until  they  break;  take  them  out; 
put  them  carefully  one  by  one  into  a  jar ;  boil  down  the 
syrup  until  thick  and  clear,  stir  into  it  a  wineglassful  of 
brandy,  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  peaches;  cork,  cover, 
and  set  away. 

Raisine  de  Raisins  (Ouisiniere  Parisienne). — String 
the  grapes,  which  should  be  sweet  and  ripe,  press  out  the 
juice,  put  on  the  fire,  and  boil  down  to  a  fourth  of  the 
quantity,  stirring  constantly  ;  when  reduced  so  far,  strain, 
replace  on  the  fire,  boil  to  a  thick  syrup,  pour  boiling 
hot  into  jars,  cover  with  brandied  paper,  again  with  thick 
paper,  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Pineapple  Marmalade.  —  Pare,  slice,  core,  and  weigh 
the  pineapple,  then  cut  into  small  bits ;  make  a  syrup  of 
a  teacupf  nl  of  water  to  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  melt,  and 
heat  to  a  boil ;  heat  the  chopped  pineapple  in  another  ves- 
sel, set  that  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  covering  closely,  to 
keep  in  the  flavor;  when  it  is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and 
begins  to  look  clear,  add  to  the  syrup  ;  boil  together  half  an 
hour,  stirring  all  the  while  until  it  is  a  clear,  bright  paste. 

Preserved  Pineapple. — Pare,  cut  into  slices,  core,  and 
weigh,  allowing  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit ;  put  into  alternate  layers  in  the  kettle,  and  pour  in 
water,  allowing  a  teacupf ul  to  each  pound  of  sugar;  heat 
to  a  boil,  take  out  the  pineapple,  and  spread  upon  dishes 
in  the  sun ;  boil  and  skim  the  syrup  half  an  hour,  return 
the  pineapple  to  the  kettle,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  take 
it  out,  pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  pour  on  the  scalding 
syrup,  cover  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up, 
first  putting  brandied  tissue  paper  on  the  top. 

Pineapple  Jam. — Twist  off  the  top  and  bottom  leaves 
of  the  pineapples,  and  cut  them  in  quarters,  lengthwise, 
leaving  on  the  skins ;  grate  them  on  a  coarse  grater ;  the 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  429 

skin  will  enable  you  to  hold  it  firmly  and  not  waste  pulp 
or  juice;  to  every  pound  of  the  grated  pulp  add  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar;  boil  and  stir  it 
well,  until  it  begins  to  look  of  a  clear  amber  color ;  put 
it  into  jars  when  hot,  and  paper  them  when  cold. 

Paisine  de  Bourgoyne  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Take 
fine,  sound,  sweet,  ripe  grapes;  string,  and  press  in  a 
coarse  muslin  bag  to  expel  the  juice;  put  it  on  the  fire 
in  a  porcelain-lined  preserving -kettle,  and  boil  down  to 
one  half  the  original  quantity;  skim  and  stir  constantly; 
when  the  juice  is  reduced  one  half,  put  into  it  some  fine 
pears  (the  Messire  Jean  pear  is  the  best  for  this  purpose), 
peeled,  cored,  and  cut  into  quarters  ;  continue  boiling  un- 
til the  juice  is  reduced  to  a  third  of  the  original  quantity, 
the  pears  will  then  be  sufficiently  cooked ;  pour  boiling- 
hot  into  porcelain  jars;  cover  each  jar  with  a  plate  or 
saucer,  and  set  for  twelve  hours  (or  during  the  night)  in 
an  oven  in  which  you  have  baked  during  the  daytime. 
This  is,  perhaps,  the  best  of  preserves,  but  it  is  only 
possible  to  make  it  in  the  South,  where  ripe  grapes  are 
sweet  as  honey  ;  if  made  of  Northern  grapes  you  must 
add  to  each  ten  pounds  of  cooked  juice  (i.  <?.,  boiled 
down  one  half)  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  in  this  case 
it  is  not  boiled  down  to  so  thick  a  syrup  in  the  second 
boiling ;  small  Crecy  carrots  cut  into  quarters  may  be 
substituted  for  pears,  but  must  be  put  on  at  the  first 
boiling  of  the  juice,  as  they  take  longer  to  cook  than 
pears. 

Fruits  Preserved  in  Vinegar,  without  Cooking  {Cuisi- 
niere Russe). — Take  some  of  the  finest  cider  vinegar  (the 
quantity  must  depend  upon  the  amount  of  preserves  you 
wish  to  make),  throw  into  this  vinegar  some  pounded  loaf 
sugar,  enough  to  reduce  the  vinegar  to  a  piquant  syrup, 
which  is  not  too  sour;  when  this  is  smooth  and  thick, put 
into  it  fine  ripe  peaches,  pears,  plums,  etc.,  peeled,  cored, 


430  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

and  cut  in  quarters ;  cover  with  brandied  paper,  etc.,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place ;  they  will  be  fit  for 
use  in  a  few  weeks ;  the  fruit  should  be  perfectly  ripe,  and 
the  weather  dry  and  warm. 

Watermelon  Preserve. — Lay  the  rind  of  citron  melon  in 
salt  water  for  three  days,  and  then  in  fresh  water  for  the 
same  time ;  make  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
to  one  of  the  rind,  and  let  the  rind  lie  in  it  all  night ;  then 
boil  all  together  until  clear,  adding  green  ginger,  and 
lemon  peel  to  flavor  it. 

Pink  Waterinelon  Preserve. — Cut  the  pink  part  of  the 
melon  into  squares,  and  remove  all  the  seeds  with  a  pen- 
knife ;  to  one  pound  of  fruit  allow  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  hours ;  then 
remove  the  fruit,  and  boil  the  syrup,  skimming  it  care- 
fully, then  put  in  the  fruit;  slice  a  lemon,  and  a  few 
pieces  of  green  ginger-root ;  boil  them  until  tender  in  a 
little  water,  and,  when  they  are  done,  add  them  to  the 
syrup ;  boil  it  until  the  melon  is  tender  and  clear,  and  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw;  as  soon  as  cool  put  into  glass 
jars,  and  fasten  tight ;  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  six  weeks. 

Bottled  Plums,  or  any  Fruit  for  Tarts. — Fill  wide- 
mouthed  bottles  with  the  fruit,  and  as  much  cold  water 
as  they  will  hold,  and  cover  them  with  bladder ;  then  put 
them  into  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  first  wrapping  cloths  or 
haybands  round  the  bottles  to  prevent  their  touching ;  let 
them  get  scalding  hot,  but  not  ooil ;  then  take  the  kettle 
from  the  fire,  leaving  the  bottles  in  the  water  until  it  is 
quite  cold  again  ;  then  dry  the  bottles,  and  put  them  away 
in  a  dry,  cool,  dark  place.  When  the  above  directions  are 
obeyed,  the  bottled  fruit  will  be  found  excellent.  This 
receipt  is  especially  good  for  stoned  fruit.  The  bladder 
used  for  covering  the  bottles  should  be  soaked  in  water 
for  forty-four  hours  beforehand. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  431 

Brandied  Grapes. — Choose  large,  close  bunches  of  ripe 
grapes ;  wash,  and  dry  them  thoroughly  with  a  clean  cloth  ; 
remove  any  grape  that  may  be  in  the  least  defective ;  with 
a  needle  prick  each  grape  in  three  places ;  have  ready  a 
sufficiency  of  double-refined  loaf  sugar  powdered  and  sift- 
ed ;  put  some  sugar  in  the  bottom  of  a  jar,  then  put  in  a 
bunch  of  grapes,  and  cover  thickly  with  sugar ;  then  an- 
other bunch,  then  more  sugar,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is 
nearly  full,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  sugar;  then  fill  up 
the  jar  with  the  best  white  brandy,  cover  as  closely  as  pos- 
sible, and  set  them  away. 

Brandied  Cherries. — Weigh  the  finest  Morellos,  having 
cut  off  half  the  stalk ;  prick  them  with  a  new  needle,  and 
drop  them  into  a  jar  or  a  wide-mouthed  bottle ;  pound 
three  fourths  of  their  weight  of  rock  candy,  strew  over, 
fill  up  with  white  brandy,  and  tie  a  bladder  over. 

Brandied  Peaches,  Pears,  or  Plums. — Four  pounds  of 
fruit,  .pared  ;  if  plums,  pricked  ;  four  pounds  of  loaf  sug- 
ar ;  one  pint  of  the  best  white  brandy. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  just  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve it ;  let  this  come  to  a  boil,  put  the  fruit  in,  and  boil 
five  minutes ;  having  removed  the  fruit  carefully,  let  the 
syrup  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well, 
add  the  brandy,  and  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire;  pour 
the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  seal  in  glass  jars.  If, 
after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the  fire,  a  reddish  liquor  oozes 
from  it,  drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup. 

Brandied  Berries. — Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar  and  half  a  gill  of  water  for  every  two  pounds  of 
fruit;  heat  to  boiling,  stirring  to  prevent  burning,  and 
pour  over  the  berries  while  warm,  not  hot ;  cover,  and  let 
them  stand  for-  an  hour,  put  all  into  a  preserving-kettle, 
and  heat  slowly  ;  boil  five  minutes,  take  out  the  fruit  with 
a  perforated  skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup  twenty  minutes  ; 


432  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

add  a  pint  of  brandy  for  every  five  pounds  of  fruit,  pour 
over  the  berries  burning  hot,  and  seal. 

Brandied  Cherries  a  la  Parisienne.  —  Take  fine,  red 
cherries,  not  very  ripe ;  cut  off  one  half  of  the  stem  and 
put  them  into  a  glass  jar  with  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon 
and  a  pinch  of  coriander  seed ;  add  clarified  sugar  in  the 
proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  a  pound  of  fruit, 
and  fill  up  the  jar  with  brandy,  seal,  and  set  away.  They 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  months. 

Rules  for  Canning. — Always  use  glass  cans  with  good 
screw  lids  and  gum  rings. 

Use  none  but  the  best,  fresh,  ripe  fruit. 

Roll  each  can  in  hot  water  before  filling  it,  put  the  fruit 
or  vegetable  into  the  can  scalding  hot,  fill  to  the  brim,  and 
screw  the  top  on  at  once. 

Canned  Peac/ies.—Yare  the  peaches,  stone,  and  cut  in 
half;  as  they  are  cut  throw  them  immediately  into  glass 
jars ;  have  ready  a  cold  syrup  of  one  half  pint  of  cold  wa- 
ter to  one  pound  of  sugar;  fill  the  jars  with  this  syrup 
and  fasten  them  up;  put  a  large  boiler  over  the  fire,  cover 
the  bottom  of  it  with  boards,  and  on  these  set  the  jars  of 
peaches ;  fill  up  the  boiler  with  cold  water  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  jars,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  water  boils ; 
remove  them  carefully,  and  give  the  lids  another  screwing; 
repeat  the  screwing  in  a  day  or  two,  as  they  sometimes  slip  ; 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Canned  Pears. — Use  Seckel  or  Bartlett  pears  ;  prepare 
a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  water  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit ;  as  fast  as  you  peel  the 
pears,  drop  each  into  a  pan  of  clear  water;  when  the  syr- 
up has  come  to  a  fast  boil  put  in  the  pears  carefully,  not 
to  bruise  them,  and  boil  until  they  look  clear  and  can  be 
easily  pierced  with  a  fork ;  have  the  cans  ready,  rolled  in 


PRESERVES  AND  ERUIT  JELLIES.  433 

hot  water,  pack  with  the  pears,  fill  to  the  brim  with  scald- 
ing syrup,  and  seal. 

Canned  Damsons,  Green  Gages,  or  other  Plums. — Prick 
the  plums  with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting;  prepare  a 
syrup,  allowing  to  every  three  quarts  of  fruit  a  gill  of  pure 
water  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  when  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  the  water  is  bloodwarm,  put  in  the  plums; 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil ;  let  them  boil  five  minutes,  not  fast, 
fill  up  the  jars  with  plums,  pour  in  the  scalding  syrup  un- 
til it  runs  down  the  sides,  and  seal. 

Canned  Currants,  Cherries,  or  any  Berries. — Heat  slow- 
ly to  boiling  in  a  large  kettle ;  when  they  begin  to  boil 
add  one  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit ;  be- 
fore doing  this  dip  out  enough  juice  to  leave  the  berries 
almost  dry  before  putting  in  the  sugar;  boil  all  together 
fifteen  minutes,  and  can  instantly. 

Fruit  Jellies. — Put  the  fruit  on  in  a  stone  jar,  place  this 
in  a  kettle  of  tepid  water,  and  set  on  the  fire :  let  it  boil, 
closely  covered,  until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces;  strain, 
pressing  the  bag,  a  stout,  coarse  one,  hard,  putting  in  a  few 
handfuls  each  time,  and  between  each  squeezing  turning 
it  inside  out  to  scald  off  the  pulp  and  skins ;  to  each  pint 
of  juice  allow  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  set  the  juice  on  alone 
to  boil,  and  while  it  is  boiling  put  the  sugar  into  shallow 
dishes  or  pans  and  heat  it  in  the  oven,. watching  and  stir- 
ring the  sugar  to  prevent  burning;  boil  the  juice  just 
twenty  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins  fairly  to  boil ;  by 
this  time  the  sugar  should  be  very  hot ;  throw  the  sugar  into 
the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  time ;  withdraw 
the  spoon  when  all  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  let  the  jelly 
come  to  a  boil  to  make  all  certain  ;  withdraw  the  kettle  in- 
stantly from  the  fire ;  roll  your  glasses  and  cups  in  hot  wa- 
ter, and  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid ;  the  jelly  will  form  with- 
in an  hour ;  when  cold  close  and  tie  up  as  you  do  preserves. 

19 


434  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Currant  Jelly. — Make  precisely  as  above. 

Green-Grape  Jelly. — Make  as  above,  but  allow  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 

Wild- Cherry-and- Currant  Jelly. — Two  thirds  of  wild 
cherries,  crushed,  stones  and  all ;  one  third  of  red  currants ; 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  make  as  you  do 
plain  currant  jelly. 

Black -Cap -and -Currant  Jelly.  —  Two  parts  of  black- 
caps, or  red  raspberries,  and  one  of  currants. 
Proceed  as  above. 

Cold  Currant  Jelly  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — String  the 
currants  and  crush  them  in  an  earthen  pot,  taking  care, 
however,  not  to  crush  the  seeds;  then  place  a  fine  wire 
sieve  upon  an  earthen  pot,  pour  currants  and  juice  on  the 
sieve,  and  let  the  juice  filter  through  ;  when  they  no  long- 
er drip,  put  them  into  a  coarse  muslin  bag,  and  squeeze  out 
the  remaining  juice  into  another  pot;  examine  the  juice 
carefully,  and  if  not  perfectly  clear  strain  again  ;  then 
weigh  the  juice,  and  allow  two  pounds  of  clarified  sugar 
to  one  pound  of  juice ;  mix  and  stir  long  and  well  until 
the  amalgamation  is  perfect ;  then  cover  the  jar,  and  put 
it  into  a  very  cold  cellar  for  twenty-four  hours,  going  in, 
however,  to  stir  it  thoroughly  at  least  three  times  during 
this  period ;  then  pour  into  small  jars  holding  about  a 
pint,  cover  with  brandied  paper,  and  then  with  bladder, 
and  put  into  a  very  cold  cellar.  They  should  not  be 
touched  until  winter  has  fairly  set  in.  This  jelly  is  su- 
perior in  flavor  to  any  other  currant  jelly. 

Seeded  Currants  (Cuisiniere Parisienne). — String  large, 
fine  currants ;  take  up  each  currant  carefully,  and  extract 
the  seeds,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin ;  then  weigh 
the  fruit ;  allow  a  pound  and  a  half  of  the  fines-t  loaf  sug- 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  435 

ar  to  a  pound  of  fruit ;  put  the  sugar  on  the  fire,  allow- 
ing half  a  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar ;  clarify 
this  syrup  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  into  half  a 
tumblerful  of  water;  stir,  skim,  and  cook  slowly,  sim- 
mering rather  than  boiling;  put  the  currants  into  this, 
boil  up  once,  and  withdraw  from  the  fire ;  pour  into  glass 
jars,  cover  with  bran  died  paper,  then  with  thick,  white 
paper,  tie  up  and  put  away. 

Four-fruit  Jelly. — One  pound  of  cherries,  stoned ;  one 
pound  of  currants,  strung;  one  pound  of  strawberries, 
strung;  one  pound  of  raspberries. 

Put  all  the  fruit  into  a  pot  with  four  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  put  over  a  quick  fire ;  boil  steadily  ;  when  the 
sugar  is  melted,  the  fruits  dissolved,  and  the  preserve  be- 
gins to  rise  to  the  surface,  remove  the  pot  from  the  fire, 
strain  through  a  sieve  into  small  jars,  cover  with  brandied 
paper,  seal,  and  set  away.  The  fruit  may  be  put  into  oth- 
er jars  as  a  marmalade. 

Grab- Apple  Jelly. — Siberian  crab  apples,  cut  in  pieces, 
but  not  pared  or  seeded  ;  put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  set 
in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  and  let  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours; 
leave  in  the  jar  all  night,  covered  closely ;  next  morning 
squeeze  out  the  juice,  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  make  as 
you  do  currant  jelly. 

Quince  Jelly. — Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  and  add  for 
every  five  pounds  of  fruit  a  cupful  of  water ;  put  peelings, 
cores,  and  all  into  a  stone  jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  when  the  fruit  is  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as 
with  other  jellies. 

Peach  Jelly.— Fare,  stone,  and  slice  the  peaches,  and  put 
into  a  jar  with  one  third  of  the  kernels ;  heat  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  stirring,  from  time  to  time,  until  the  fruit 
is  well  broken ;  strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  peach  juice 


436  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  measure  again,  allowing  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice ;  heat  the  sugar  very  hot, 
and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled  twenty  minutes ;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  take  instantly  from  the  fire. 

Ripe-Grape  Jelly. — One  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice. 

Proceed  as  for  other  fruit  jellies. 

Strawberry  Jelly. — Dip  a  coarse  muslin  bag  into  cold 
water,  wring  out,  put  in  the  strawberries,  and  press  and 
squeeze  to  expel  the  juice;  put  the  juice  into  a  pot,  al- 
lowing three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  juice  ;  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often ; 
skim,  and  pour  into  jars,  cover  with  brandied  tissue  paper, 
these  with  thick  paper,  and  set  away. 

Rose  Jelly. — Make  a  clear,  firm  apple  jelly  ;  just  as  the 
jelly  is  about  to  form,  color  it  a  bright  rose  color  with 
cochineal,  and  add  a  drop  or  two  of  essence  of  rose, 
enough,  to  give  it  a  distinct  rose  flavor;  stir,  skim,  pour 
into  jars,  cover  as  above,  and  set  away. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  pound  of  fruit ;  one  pint  of  red-currant  juice  to 
every  four  pounds  of  strawberries. 

Boil  the  currant  juice  and  strawberries  half  an  hour, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  up  rapidly 
for  twenty  minutes,  skimming  carefully ;  put  into  small 
jars,  and,  when  cold,  close  as  usual. 

Gooseberry  Jam. — Make  as  above,  omitting  the  cur- 
rant juice,  using  ripe  gooseberries,  and  boiling  the  fruit 
one  hour  before  the  sugar  is  put  in,  and  another  after; 
put  up  as  usual. 

Raspberries  Preserved   Whole,  —  Five   quarts   of  fine 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.  43V 

raspberries;  pound  for  pound  of  loaf  sugar — i.  e.,  equal 
weight  of  sugar  and  fruit. 

Select  from  the  raspberries  three  pints  of  the  largest 
and  finest,  and  set  them  aside  ;  put  the  remainder  into  a 
preserving-kettle,  and  set  them  on  a  moderate  fire  to  ex- 
tract the  juice;  when  sufficiently  boiled  put  into  a  coarse 
muslin  bag,  and  press  out  the  juice;  strain  it;  then  put 
the  sugar  on  to  boil,  with  just  enough  water  to  melt  it; 
when  this  syrup  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  and  all  the 
scum  has  been  removed,  throw  in  the  whole  raspberries, 
and  let  them  simmer  slowly ;  as  soon  as  they  begin  to 
look  ragged,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer, 
and  spread  upon  flat  dishes  to  cool;  throw  into  the  syrup 
the  strained  juice,  and  let  it  boil  until  nearly  a  jelly;  then 
throw  in  again  the  whole  fruit,  which  has  been  cooling; 
give  it  a  short  boiling,  then  remove  the  kettle  from  the 
fire,  fill  up  the  glasses,  and,  when  cold,  close  as  usual. 
This  is  a  beautiful  preserve. 

Raspberry  Jam. — Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  pound  of  fruit;  one  pint  of  currant  juice  to 
every  pound  of  fruit. 

Boil  the  fruit  half  an  hour,  mashing  and  stirring  well; 
add  the  sugar,  and  cook  twenty  minutes  more ;  put  up  as 
you  do  preserves. 

Blackberry  Jam. — Make  as  above,  omitting  the  currant 
juice. 

Apple  Jam. — Weigh  equal  quantities  of  brown  sugar 
and  good  sour  apples ;  pare,  core,  and  chop  them  fine ; 
make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  and  clarify  it  very  thoroughly, 
then  add  the  apples,  the  grated  rind  of  two  or  three  lem- 
ons, and  a  few  pieces  of  white  ginger ;  boil  until  the  ap- 
ples look  clear  and  yellow. 

Apple  Butter. — Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  cider  to  two 


438  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

thirds  the  original  quantity ;  pare,  core,  and  slice  juicy  ap- 
ples, and  put  as  many  into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover. 
Boil  slowly,  stirring  with  a  flat  stick,  and  when  the  apples 
are  tender  to  breaking,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  draining  them  well;  put  in  more  apples,  as 
many  as  the  cider  will  hold,  and  stew  them  soft ;  take 
from  the  fire,  put  all  together  into  a  large  crock,  cover,  and 
leave  twelve  hours;  then  return  to  the  fire  and  boil  down, 
stirring  all  the  while ;  spice  to  taste ;  keep  in  stone  jars 
in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Pear  Butter. — One  peck  of  pears,  peeled,  cored,  and 
chopped;  five  pounds  of  sugar  (soft) ;  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar ;  stir  as  for  apple  butter. 

Peach  Butter. — Half  a  bushel  of  unpared  peaches ;  two 
quarts  of  best  molasses. 

Stew  in  water  first,  and  mash  with  a  potato  -  masher ; 
stir  as  for  apple  butter. 

Tomato  Butter. — Ten  pounds  of  tomatoes,  pared  and 
cut  up ;  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar ;  one  quart  of  vinegar. 

Put  the  tomatoes  into  a  preserving- kettle,  add  the 
sugar  and  the  vinegar,  stir  all  together  until  they  become 
as  thick  as  apple  butter,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning. 


PICKLES. 

GENERAL    RULES    FOR   MAKING   PICKLES. 

Use  none  but  the  very  best  vinegar ;  boil  in  porcelain- 
lined  pots ;  keep  in  hard  stoneware  or  glass  jars ;  examine 
them  every  month,  throwing  away  the  soft  ones,  and,  if 
they  are  not  keeping  well,  drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar, 
adding  a  cupful  of  sugar  for  each  gallon,  and  poor  boiling 
hot  over  the  pickles ;  if,  on  the  contrary,  the  pickles  are 
keeping  well,  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar  for  every 
gallon ;  keep  the  pickles  always  covered  with  vinegar. 


Pickled  Cabbagey  White. — Two  gallons  of  vinegar ;  one 
pint  of  white  mustard  seed;  four  ounces  of  ginger;  three 
ounces  of  peppercorns  ;  one  ounce  of  allspice  ;  two  ounces 
of  cloves  ;  one  ounce  of  mace  ;  one  ounce  of  nutmeg ;  two 
ounces  of  turmeric ;  one  large  handful  of  chopped  garlic ; 
one  large  handful  of  scraped  horseradish  ;  four  pounds  of 
sugar ;  two  ounces  of  celery  seed ;  three  lemons  sliced 
fine. 

Mix  all  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  days ;  peel  off  the 
outer  leaves  of  the  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  and  put  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  brine ;  cook  three  minutes ;  take  out, 
drain,  and  cover  thickly  with  salt ;  spread  it  out  in  the 
sun  to  dry,  then  shake  off  the  salt,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar  in  which  has  been  steeped  enough  turmeric  to 
color  it  well ;  leave  it  in  this  two  weeks  ;  then  pack  in  jars, 
pouring  over  them  the  seasoned  vinegar ;  this  pickle  must 
stand  two  months. 


440  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Sliced- Cucumber  Pickle  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold "). — Two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  sliced,  aud  boiled,  in 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  one  hour;  set  aside  in 
the  hot  vinegar.  For  each  gallon  of  cold  vinegar  allow : 
One  pound  of  sugar ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger ;  one  tablespoonful  of  black 
pepper ;  one  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed ;  one  teaspoon- 
f  ul  of  mace  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  allspice ;  one  teaspoonf  ul 
of  cloves  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  scraped  horseradish ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sliced 
garlic ;  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  in  the  cucumbers  and  stew  two  hours.  This  pickle 
is  ready  for  use  when  cold. 

Pickled  Cauliflower  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  House- 
hold "). — Take  firm,  white  cauliflowers,  and  cut  into  sprays ; 
drop  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  brine,  and  boil  three  minutes ; 
take  them  out,  lay  on  a  sieve  or  cloth,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  salt,  and,  when  dry,  brush  this  off;  cover  with  cold 
vinegar  for  two  days,  setting  the  jar  in  the  sun  ;  then  pack 
carefully  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  over  it  scalding  vinegar 
seasoned  as  follows:  For  each  gallon  of  vinegar  allow — 
one  cupful  of  white  sugar ;  a  dozen  blades  of  mace ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  celery  seed ;  two  dozen  white  pepper- 
corns ;  two  small  red-pepper  pods  chopped  fine ;  a  table- 
spoonful of  coriander  seed;  the  same  of  whole  mustard. 

Boil  five  minutes ;  repeat  the  scalding  once  a  week  for 
five  weeks  ;  then  tie  up  and  set  away  ;  cover  closely  from 
first  to  last. 

Pickled  Purple  Cabbage. — Shred  the  cabbage,  lay  in  a 
wooden  tray,  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt,  and  set  in  the  cel- 
lar until  the  next  day  ;  drain  off  the  brine,  wipe  dry,  lay 
in  the  sun  two  hours,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  for 
twelve  ;  to  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  cabbage  add  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar  for  every  gallon,  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed 
for  every  pint,  and  equal  quantities  of  mace,  cloves,  and 


PICKLES.  441 

whole  white  peppers;  pack  the  cabbage  in  a  stone  jar, 
boil  the  vinegar  and  spice  five  minutes  and  pour  on  hot; 
cover,  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place ;  it  must  stand  six 
weeks. 

Gherkin  Pickle.  —  Choose  small,  firm,  fresh  gherkins; 
pack  in  a  stone  jar  in  layers,  strewing  each  layer  thickly 
with  salt;  pack  the  top  layer  out  of  sight  in  salt,  and  pour 
enough  cold  water  over  to  cover  all ;  cover  the  jar,  adding 
a  weight  to  keep  the  cover  down;  leave  in  the  brine — if 
it  be  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg — for  a  month,  stir- 
ring up  every  other  day  from  the  bottom ;  when  ready  to 
pickle  them,  throw  away  the  brine  and  the  softened  gher- 
kins if  there  are  any,  and  soak  the  rest  in  cold,  fresh  water 
for  twenty-four  hours ;  change  the  water  and  leave  for  the 
same  length  of  time ;  line  the  pickle  kettle  with  green 
vine  leaves,  and  lay  the  pickles  evenly  within  it,  scattering 
a  very  little  powdered  alum  (in  the  proportion  of  a  pigeon's 
egg  to  a  two-gallon  kettleful)  over  each  layer;  cover  the 
last  layer  of  pickles  with  three  layers  of  vine  leaves;  cover 
closely,  and  steam  over  a  slow  fire  iive  or  six  hours ;  when 
the  pickles  are  a  fine  green,  remove  the  leaves  and  throw 
the  gherkins  into  ice-cold  water,  in  which  they  must  re- 
main while  you  prepare  the  vinegar;  to  each  gallon  of 
vinegar  allow  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three  dozen  of  whole 
black  peppers,  the  same  of  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice, 
and  one  dozen  blades  of  mace  ;  boil  five  minutes ;  put  the 
gherkins  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  the  vinegar,  scald- 
ing hot;  cover  closely,  and  after  two  days  scald  the  vine- 
gar, and  return  to  the  pickles ;  repeat  this  process  three 
times  more,  at  intervals  of  two,  four,  and  six  days ;  cover 
with  a  stoneware  or  wooden  top,  tie  a  strong  cloth  over 
this,  and  set  away  for  two  months  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Cucumber  Pickles — Are  made  and  treated  in  precisely 
the  same  way  as  above. 

19* 


442  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Stuffed  Bell-Pepper  Mangoes — Are  made  as  in  the  re- 
ceipt for  Louisiana  mangoes. 

String  Beans  and  Radish  Pods. — Take  them  just  be- 
fore they  change  color,  and  treat  exactly  as  you  treat  gher- 
kins and  cucumbers. 

Gooseberry  Chutnee,  or  Pidcoctis  PicTcle. — Two  quarts 
of  unripe  gooseberries,  boiled  in  a  quart  of  vinegar ;  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar  boiled  to  a  syrup  with  a  pint  of 
vinegar;  one  pound  of  salt;  half  a  pound  of  button 
onions  chopped  fine ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  garlic, 
bruised  and  chopped ;  one  pound  of  powdered  ginger ; 
half  a  pound  of  cayenne  pods,  chopped ;  one  pound  of 
mustard  seed,  bruised  ;  one  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  ;  two 
quarts  of  the  best  vinegar. 

When  the  gooseberries  have  been  boiled  allow  them  to 
get  quite  cold;  then  put  them  into  a  large  bowl,  and 
gradually  mix  in  the  other  ingredients  and  the  remainder 
of  the  vinegar,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  all  the  ingredients  are  well  blended  together,  and  the 
chutnee  is  as  smooth  as  velvet;  put  into  wide-mouthed 
jars  or  bottles,  and  tie  down  with  bladder. 

Indian  Pickle,  Bombay. — Take  one  pound  of  ginger, 
let  it  lie  in  water  one  night,  then  scrape,  and  cut  it  in 
slices;  put  it  in  a  pot  with  dry  salt,  and  let  it  stand  until 
the  other  ingredients  are  ready ;  peel  and  cut  in  pieces 
one  clove  of  garlic,  and  salt  it  for  three  days,  putting  it 
into  the  sun  to  dry;  then  throw  it  into  a  gallon  of  the 
best  vinegar  placed  in  a  strong  jar,  which  must  not  be 
more  than  three  parts  full ;  add  to  it  a  pound  of  bruised 
mustard  seed,  some  salt  dried  in  the  sun,  half  an  ounce 
of  powdered  turmeric,  half  an  ounce  of  long  pepper, 
half  a  pound  of  flour  of  mustard,  half  a  pound  of  shallots, 
a  few  cloves,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
mace ;  stir  all  together ;  whatever  articles  are  to  be  pickled 


PICKLES.  443 

must  be  dried  in  the  sun  ;  the  cauliflowers  must  be  scalded 
in  strong  brine,  and  then  peeled,  cabbage  cut  in,  celery 
and  radishes  scraped,  French  beans  and  asparagus  salted, 
and  then  scalded  in  salt  and  water,  and  dried  in  the  sun  ; 
in  this  way  all  sorts  of  fruits  or  greens,  as  they  come  in 
season,  may  be  added ;  as  the  vinegar  wastes  add  fresh. 

Indian  Pickle,  Calcutta. — Four  ounces  of  curry-pow- 
der; four  ounces  of  mustard  seed;  four  large  roots  of 
garlic;  half  a  pint  of  finest  oil  of  Lucca;  one  ounce  of 
chilies;  three  ounces  of  long  pepper;  three  ounces  of 
cloves;  half  an  ounce  of  allspice;  two  quarts  of  boiling 
vinegar;  mix. 

The  cauliflowers,  cabbage,  and  onions  are  to  be  prepared 
as  in  the  above  receipt,  and  then  to  be  put  in  a  Dutch 
oven  before  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  after  which  they  are 
to  be  added,  and  they  will  be  fit  to  eat  in  a  month. 

Pickled  Beets. — Boil  some  beets  until  tender,  and  pare 
and  slice  them ;  then  boil  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them,  with  some  mace,  cloves,  and  peppercorns ;  pour  this 
over  while  boiling,  salt  to  taste,  and  cover  closely;  they 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours. 

Indian  Pickle,  Delhi. — Two  ounces  of  celery  seed; 
four  ounces  of  peppercorns;  six  ounces  of  mustard  seed; 
eight  ounces  of  saffron;  six  ounces  of  pounded  ginger; 
one  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  this  to  steep  eight  days  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar ;  take 
any  garden  vegetables,  cucumbers,  turnips,  carrots,  beets, 
white  or  red  radishes,  little  melons  just  formed,  snap  beans, 
little  heads  of  cauliflower,  nasturtium  seeds,  little  lemons, 
oranges,  apples,  peaches,  green  walnuts,  blanched  almonds, 
or  any  peeled  ripe  nuts,  and  plenty  of  red-pepper  pods  ;  cut 
all  the  vegetables  you  can  into  pretty  shapes ;  pour  boiling 
water  over  them;  drain  them  well  and  throw  them  into 
a  jar  of  strong  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four 


444  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

hours;  drain  them  again;  strain  your  vinegar  in  which 
you  have  steeped  your  celery,  mustard  seed,  pepper,  gin- 
ger, or  saffron  through  a  cloth,  pressing  it  hard,  then  filter 
it  through  a  paper;  add  a  bottle  of  sweet  oil  for  every 
three  quarts  of  vinegar;  throw  in  your  pickles,  which 
must  be  carefully  covered  ;  expose  your  jar  several  days 
to  the  sun,  and  they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

To  Prepare  French  Mustard. — Pound  a  quart  of  black 
mustard  seed  ;  mix  with  it  equal  parts  of  chopped  parsley, 
chevril,  celery,  tarragon,  garlic,  allspice,  and  cloves,  six 
pounded  anchovies,  and  salt  to  taste;  make  this  into  a 
liquid  paste,  and  let  it  stand  three  or  four  days;  then 
strain  it,  and  put  it  in  little  earthen  jars ;  heat  a  little  iron 
rod  red-hot,  and  plunge  it  into  each  jar,  and  let  it  remain 
until  it  becomes  cold ;  this  is  necessary  to  remove  the  bit- 
terness and  dampness  of  the  mustard  ;  fill  in  this  hole 
with  vinegar;  cork  and  seal  up  your  jars. 

Pickled  Lemons. — Scrape  twelve  lemons  with  a  silver 
knife,  cut  them  across  in  quarters,  not  quite  through,  give 
them  as  much  salt  as  they  will  hold,  also  rub  and  strew  it 
over  them,  and  let  them  lie  in  an  earthen  dish  three  or 
four  days,  turning  them  every  day;  then  take  twelve, 
cloves  of  garlic,  parboil  and  salt  them  three  days,  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour  of  mustard,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  to 
every  lemon  ;  take  the  lemons  out  of  the  salt,  and  put 
them  into  a  jar  with  the  spice,  covering  them  with  the 
best  vinegar;  cover  the  jar  very  closely.  They  will  be  fit 
for  use  in  a  month.  Oranges  may  be  pickled  in  the  same 
way. 

Pickled  Mushrooms. — Take  a  quart  of  the  best  button 
mushrooms;  wash  them  in  vinegar  with  a  flannel;  then 
take  three  anchovies,  bone,  skin,  and  chop  them  small ; 
then  put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan  with  the 
mushrooms,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  pepper  aud  gin- 


PICKLES.  445 

ger,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  three  cloves  of  shallots,  and  as  much 
vinegar  as  will  half  cover  them ;  stew  until  they  shrink 
considerably  ;  when  cold  put  into  bottles,  pour  the  vinegar 
over  them,  and  cork  tightly. 

Stuffed  Mangoes  d  la  Creole  (Old  Dominion  style). — 
Gather  the  small  green  cantelopes  when  they  are  about  as 
large  as  your  fist ;  cut  a  little  slice  lengthwise  out  of  each 
one,  and  take  out  all  the  seed ;  then  put  the  slice  back  and 
tie  your  mango  up  carefully  with  a  thread ;  throw  your 
cantelopes  in  a  strong  brine,  in  which  you  throw,  also,  all 
manner  of  vegetables  lit  for  pickles — cucumbers,  ground 
artichokes,  little  ears  of  corn,  snap  beans,  green  tomatoes, 
asparagus  points,  etc. ;  leave  them  in  this  brine  a  month 
or  six  weeks  ;  watch  carefully  to  sec  that  they  do  not 
become  too  soft;  when  you  are  ready  to  make  your  man- 
goes, take  them  out  of  the  brine,  and  lay  them  two  or 
three  days  in  fresh  water  to  remove  the  salt;  make  a 
stuffing  of  grated  horseradish,  white  and  black  mustard 
seed  and  celery  seed,  ground  mustard  mixed  with  vinegar, 
green  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  in  fact  any  of  the  vegetables 
you  have  had  in  pickle.  It  is  best  to  prepare  your  onions 
a  day  or  two  in  advance  ;  slice  them  and  pack  them  in  salt 
to  draw  out  all  the  water,  then  lay  them  in  cold  water  to 
take  out  the  salt;  chop  them  up  with  the  stuffing,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  turmeric,  and  .mix  all  well  together  with 
sweet  oil  and  powdered  black  pepper,  and  red-pepper  pods, 
chopped ;  stuff  your  mangoes  with  this  ;  be  careful  to  sew 
in  the  slices  you  have  taken  out ;  pack  them  in  a  two-gal- 
lon stone  jar,  pour  a  quart  bottle  of  sweet  oil  over  them, 
and  fill  up  the  jar  with  the  best  vinegar ;  throw  in  a  hand- 
ful of  allspice  and  cloves,  and  whole  red  pepper ;  put  a 
weight  on  your  pickles  to  keep  them  under;  cover  your 
jar  with  a  cotton  cloth  dipped  in  melted  beeswax  and  ros- 
in ;  let  them  stand  six  weeks  before  using. 

Ever-ready  Pickle. — Three  quarts  of  the  best  cider  or 


446  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

malt  vinegar ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard ; 
half  a  pound  of  black  peppercorns ;  two  small  red-pepper 
pods ;  one  ounce  of  cloves,  whole ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  allspice,  whole;  one  ounce  of  brown  sugar;  a  handful 
of  salt ;  a  stick  of  horseradish,  grated. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  porcelain-lined  preserving- 
kettle,  put  on  the  fire,  and  allow  the  pickle  to  come  to  a 
boil ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  the  pickle  cool ;  when 
quite  cold  pour  into  a  stone  crock,  and  add  the  vegetables, 
which  must  be  wiped  dry.  The  vegetables  need  no  fur- 
ther preparation,  and  can  be  put  in  whenever  they  are  in 
season  ;  the  jar  should  be  kept  closely  covered. 

Easy-mixed  Pickle  (Old  Humphrey's). — Pack  into  me- 
dium-sized glass  jars  some  freshly  shredded  cabbage,  raw 
cauliflower  cut  up,  button  onions,  peeled,  small  red-pepper 
pods,  and  small  cucumbers  (which  have  lain  in  brine  ready 
for  pickling) ;  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt ;  add  plenty  of 
mustard  seed,  cloves,  peppercorns,  and  a  little  allspice,  all 
whole;  then  make  a  pickle  as  above,  omitting,  however, 
the  spices,  and  putting  half  the  quantity  of  salt ;  pour  boil- 
ing hot,  or  as  hot  as  the  glass  will  bear,  into  the  jars  ;  cork 
and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  They  are  fit  for  use  in  six 
weeks. 

Pickled  Onions  (Meg  Dodd's).— Take  small  button  on- 
ions, peel  them,  and  throw  them  into  salt  and  water  for 
twenty-four  hours ;  then  put  them  on  the  fire  in  a  porce- 
lain-lined preserving-kettle,  with  fresh  salt  and  water,  and 
let  them  come  to  a  boil;  remove  from  the  fire,  pour  off 
the  water,  put  the  onions  in  a  large  crock,  and  pour  over 
them  the  scalding  hot  vinegar,  which  must  have  been  scald- 
ed with  mace,  whole  peppercorns,  red-pepper  pods,  spices 
(all  unground),  a  tablespoonf  nl  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste ; 
cover  the  crock  and  set  away  until  cold,  then  bottle. 

Picklette  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). — Four 


PICKLES.  447 

large,  crisp  cabbages,  chopped  fine ;  one  quart  of  button 
onions,  chopped  fine  ;  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  or  enough  to 
cover  the  cabbage ;  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar ;  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
black  pepper;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon;  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  turmeric ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery 
seed ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  allspice,  one  of  mace,  and  one 
of  alum,  pulverized. 

Pack  the  cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate  layers  with  a 
little  salt  between  them  ;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours; 
then  scald  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  together,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage  and  onions  ;  repeat  this  for  three  succes- 
sive mornings;  on  the  fourth  boil  all  together  live  min- 
utes ;  when  cold,  bottle. 

Tomato-and- Onion  Pickle. — One  peck  of  tomatoes,  me- 
dium size,  sliced  thin  ;  twenty-four  shallots,  chopped  fine ; 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed ;  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  ground  ginger ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard ;  one  ounce  of  whole  allspice  ;  half  an  ounce  of  cloves; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  loaf  sugar. 

When  the  tomatoes  are  sliced,  pack  them  in  an  earthen- 
ware jar,  putting  a  thick  layer  of  salt  between  each  layer 
of  tomatoes ;  cover,  and  let  them  stand  for  twenty-four 
hours;  then  pour  off  the  liquor,  and  put  the  tomatoes,  on- 
ions, and  spice  into  a  large  kettle  in  alternate  layers ;  cov- 
er the  pickle  well  with  vinegar,  put  the  cover  on  the  ket- 
tle, and  cook  gently ;  let  the  pickle  cook  for  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour  after  it  has  come  to  a  boil ;  if  the  pickle 
seems  too  thick,  add  from  a  quarter  of  a  pint  to  a  pint  of 


Tomato  Mustard. — One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  sliced ;  six  red-pepper  pods ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
salt ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  whole ;  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  one  ounce  of  allspice,  un- 


448  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ground  ;  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  unground  ;  half  an  ounce 
of  cloves,  unground ;  two  onions,  peeled  and  chopped 
fine. 

Boil  the  tomatoes  for  an  hour  with  the  red-pepper  pods  ; 
then  strain  through  a  colander,  and  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients;  put  on  the  fire  again,  and  boil  until  quite  thick; 
strain  again,  and  set  away  to  cool;  when  quite  cold  stir 
in  carefully,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
the  best  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
half  a  pint  of  vinegar;  bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark 
place. 

Ripe-Tomato  Pickle. — Two  gallons  of  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  sliced;  one  pint  of  vinegar;  two  pounds  of  sugar; 
mace,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg-to  taste. 

Put  on  all  together,  heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmer 
one  hour;  put  up  in  glass  jars. 

Green- Tomato  Boy. — Two  gallons  of  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  sliced ;  one  dozen  of  good-sized  onions,  sliced ;  two 
quarts  of  vinegar ;  one  pound  of  sugar ;  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  salt;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard;  two  black 
peppers,  ground  ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  allspice ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often 
lest  they  should  scorch ;  put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 

PicMed  Peaches,  Whole. — Ten  pounds  of  fruit,  pared  ; 
four  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  white  loaf;  one  quart 
of  vinegar ;  mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. 

Lay  the  peaches  in  the  sugar  for  an  hour,  drain  off  ev- 
ery drop  of  juice,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  a  cupful  of 
water;  boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise;  skim, put  in  the 
fruit,  and  boil  five  minutes;  take  out  the  peaches  with  a 
perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool ;  add 
the  vinegar  and  spices  to  the  syrup,  boil  fifteen  minutes 
longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  in  glass  jars. 


PICKLES.  449 

Pickled  Peaches,  TJnpeeled. —  Seven  pounds  of  fruit; 
three  pounds  of  sugar;  three  pints  of  vinegar;  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  allspice,  mace,  and  cinnamon  ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  celery  seed  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves. 

Hub  the  fur  off  with  a  coarse  cloth,  and  prick  each  peach 
with  a  fork;  heat  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  un- 
til they  almost  boil,  take  them  out,  and  add  the  vinegar, 
sugar,  and  spices  to  the  water;  boil  ten  minutes,  then  put 
in  the  fruit  and  boil  until  tender;  remove  the  fruit  with  a 
skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool;  boil  the  syrup 
until  thick,  pack  the  peaches  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  over 
them  scalding  hot.  Un peeled  pears  may  be  pickled  in  the 
same  manner. 

Pickled  Cherries.  —  Take  large,  tart,  red  cherries,  as 
fresh  as  you  can  get  them ;  to  every  quart  of  cherries  al- 
low a  large  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
a  dozen  whole  cloves,  and  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace ;  put 
the  vinegar  and  sugar  on  to  heat  with  the  spices ;  boil  five 
minutes,  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  vessel,  cover, 
and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold ;  pack  the  cherries  into  jars, 
and. pour  the  vinegar  over  them  when  cold;  cork  tightly 
and  set  away;  they  are  fit  for  use  almost  immediately. 

/Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. — Seven  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  sliced;  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar;  one 
ounce  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon  ;  one  ounce  of  cloves; 
one  quart  of  vinegar. 

Mix  all  together,  and  stew  one  hour. 

Sweet  Pickled  Damsons,  Plums,  Pears,  Peaches,  or 
Husk  Tomatoes.  —  Pare  peaches  and  pears,  prick  plums 
and  damsons,  or  husk  tomatoes;  put  into  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar ;  heat  slowly  to  a  boil; 
add  the  vinegar  and  spices ;  boil  five  minutes ;  then  take 
out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon 
dishes  to  cool ;  boil  the  syrup  thick,  pack  the  fruit  in  glass 


450  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  on  boiling  hot.  To  seven  pounds 
of  fruit  allow  four  pounds  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of 
strong  vinegar,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste.  Al- 
ways use  whole  spices  for  sweet  pickle.  Examine  sweet 
pickle  every  other  day  for  the  first  month,  and  if  they  do 
not  keep  well,  set  the  uncovered  jars  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  and  heat  the  pickles  to  scalding-point. 


ICE-CREAM   AND  WATER-ICES. 

GENERAL    RULES    FOR   ICE-CREAM   MAKING. 

Good  ice-cream  should  be  made  of  pure  cream.  If 
this  be  unattainable,  thicken  the  milk  with  arrow-root  or 
corn-starch;  or  make  a  custard  (not  too  thick, and  freeze 

it). 

The  best  ice  cream  is  made  of  the  best,  rich,  undiluted 
cream,  and  the  best  sugar.  Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  cream  is  the  average. 

Pack  the  freezer  in  lumps  of  ice  and  rock  salt.  Never 
allow  the  salt  to  come  up  to  the  level  of  the  freezer,  lest 
it  should  get  into  the  cream.  After  the  cream  has  been 
in  long  enough  to  become  completely  chilled,  turn  the  can 
rapidly  to  and  fro.  From  time  to  time  remove  the  top, 
and  beat  and  stir  the  cream  vigorously  with  a  long  wooden 
paddle,  scraping  it  off  the  sides ;  pursue  this  course  until 
the  cream  becomes  thick  ;  when  too  stiff  to  beat  or  stir, 
cover  the  can  securely  to  keep  out  the  salt,  and  fill  the  top 
with  broken  ice. 

These  directions  apply  to  the  old-fashioned  freezer. 
But  it  is  better  to  get  always  the  latest  invention.  The 
present  freezers  beat,  stir,  scrape,  and  freeze,  all  at  once, 
well  and  quickly.  

Almond  Ice-cream. — Three  pints  of  fresh,  rich  cream ; 
sugar  to  taste  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  corn-starch,  wet  with 
cold  water  ;  three  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  one  ounce 
of  bitter,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water. 

Heat  one  pint  of  the  cream  almost  to  boiling,  add  the 


452  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

sugar,  and,  when  this  is  melted,  the  almonds  ;  simmer  ten. 
minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  all  stand  ten 
minues  in  a  covered  jar;  strain,  return  to  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  the  arrow-root  for  five  minutes ;  when  cold,  beat  light 
with  an  egg-whip,  adding  gradually  the  rest  of  the  cream  ; 
then  freeze. 

Custard  Ice-cream. — Make  a  rich  custard,  flavor  to  taste ; 
make  it  sweeter  than  usual,  and  freeze. 

Pistachio  Ice-cream. — Make  a  pistachio  custard,  sweeter 
than  usual,  and  freeze. 

Caramel  Ice-cream. — Make  a  caramel  custard,  very 
sweet,  and  freeze. 

Nesselrode  Ice-cream — Is  made  precisely  according  to 
the  receipt  for  Nesselrode  cream  a  la  Busse,  but  with  one 
third  more  sugar,  and  frozen. 

Chocolate  Ice-cream. — Two  quarts  of  sweet  cream  ;  half 
a  pint  of  milk ;  sugar  to  taste ;  one  third  of  a  cake  of 
chocolate,  grated  ;  a  little  vanilla. 

Beat  the  cream  until  stiff,  then  add  the  milk,  sugar, 
flavoring,  and  chocolate ;  then  beat  again  hard  and  long, 
and  freeze,  stirring  until  so  hard  that  you  can  do  so  no 
longer;  the  more  rapidly  it  is  stirred  the  finer  will  be  its 
grain. 

Coffee  in  Cream.— Three  pints  of  cream  ;  one  cupful  of 
black  coffee,  very  strong  and  clear;  two  cupfuls  of  sugar; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrow-root  moistened  with  cold  milk. 

Heat  one  half  the  cream  to  boiling,  then  stir  in  the 
sugar,  and,  when  this  is  nearly  melted,  the  coffee,  then  the 
arrow-root;  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  when 
cold,  whip  as  light  as  possible,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the 
cream  by  degrees  ;  then  freeze. 


ICE-CREAM  AND  WATER-ICES.  453 

.  Ice-cream  made  of  Milk. — Two  quarts  of  good,  rich, 
fresh  milk  ;  two  tablespoonf ills  of  corn  flour ;  sugar  to 
taste  ;  flavoring  to  taste. 

Mix  the  corn  flour  to  a  smootli  paste  with  a  little  of  the 
milk,  then  stir  in  half. a  pint  of  boiling  milk;  set  this  on 
the  fire,  and  let  the  flour  cook  a  little  while  ;  when  done, 
dilute  with  cold  milk,  stir  until  smooth,  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and  freeze. 

Tutti-frutti  Ice-cream. — Make  a  very  rich  custard — 
a  caramel  custard  is  best  for  the  purpose,  following  the 
usual  rule  of  making  it  one  third  sweeter  than  if  it  were 
not  to  be  frozen — and  stir  in  some  candied  fruit,  chopped 
fine,  regulating  the  quantity  by  the  quantity  of  custard ; 
freeze  as  usual. 

Pineapple  Ice-cream.  —  Three  quarts  of  rich,  fresh 
cream  ;  one  pineapple  ;  sugar  to  taste  ;  a  very  little  candied 
pineapple  cut  into  thin  shreds. 

Cut  the  pineapple  into  quarters,  but  do  not  peel  it ; 
take  each  quarter  by  the  skin,  and  grate  it  down  to  a  fine 
pulp  ;  then  press  out  the  juice,  mix  it  with  the  sweetened 
cream,'  add  also  a  little  of  the  pulp  and  the  candied  pine- 
apple, sweeten  again  to  taste,  beat  and  stir  smooth,  and 
freeze. 

lemon  Ice-cream. — Grate  the  rinds  into  a  bowl,  and  put 
a  tablespoonf ul  or  two  of  water  upon  the  pulp;  stir  and 
mash  it  well,  then  strain  it  into  the  cream  ;  then  squeeze 
the  lemons,  and  add  a  portion  of  the  sugar  to  the  juice, 
and  stir  it  into  the  cream;  one  lemon  suffices  for  each 
quart  of  cream  ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Orange-Fool  Ice-cream. — Make  a  cream  as  for  orange 
fool,  but  sweeter,  and  freeze. 

Vanilla  Ice-cream. — Cut  the  bean  into  small  pieces,  and 


454  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

boil  it  in  half  a  teacupful  of  water  until  the  flavor  is  ex- 
tracted ;  then  strain  the  water  into  the  already  sweetened 
cream,  and  mix  it  well ;  flavor,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Racahout  Ice-cream.  —  Rub  the  racahout  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  water,  stir  it  into  one  half  of  the  cream,  and 
boil  it,  stirring  constantly ;  then  stir  into  it  the  remainder 
of  the  cream,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  allow  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
racahout  to  each  quart  of  cream  ;  freeze  as  usual. 

Strawberry  Ice-cream. — Two  quarts  of  rich,  fresh  cream ; 
juice  of  one  quart  of  fresh  strawberries ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  put  it  into  the  freezing-can,  then 
mash  the  strawberries  through  a  coarse  sieve,  strain  the 
juice  thus  obtained  through  a  liner  sieve,  and  stir  the  juice 
into  the  cream ;   taste,  and,  if  not  sweet  enough,  stir  in 


Raspberry  Ice-cream — Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
strawberry. 

Peach  Ice-cream. — Use  rich,  fresh  cream,  and  the  finest 
and  ripest  peaches  ;  when  the  cream  is  sweetened,  the 
peaches  should  be  mashed  into  a  pulp,  sweetened,  and 
stirred  into  the  cream ;  the  quantity  of  peach  is  a  matter 
of  taste. 

Creme  au  The  (Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Boil  a  quart  of 
rich,  fresh  cream,  and  pour  boiling  hot  upon  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  tea  (half  black  and  half  green)  and  upon  a 
doublehandf  ul  of  loaf  sugar ;  cover  closely,  set  in  a  warm 
place,  and,  when  the  tea  has  drawn,  strain  the  cream  and 
beat  into  it  the  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  sweeten  again  to  taste, 
beat  smooth,  and  freeze. 

Creme  a  la  Rose  {Cuisiniere  Parisienne). — Two  quarts 
x>f  rich,  fresh  cream ;  sugar  to  taste  ;  rose  water  to  taste ; 


ICE-CREAM  AND  WATER-ICES.  455 

cochineal  in  sufficient  quantity  to  give  a  fine  rose-color ; 
yolks  of  twelve  eggs. 

Heat  the  cream  boiling  hot,  stir  in  the  sugar,  flavoring, 
and  coloring ;  have  ready  the  yolks  well  beaten  ;  add 
the  cream  to  the  yolks,  little  by  little,  stirring  continu- 
ally ;  strain,  cook  a  bain-marie  until  it  thickens,  and,  when 
cold,  freeze. 

Cherry  Ice. — One  quart  of  cherries,  and  one  half  the 
stones,  pounded;  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  one  pint  of  water  ; 
sugar  to  taste,  dissolved  in  the  water ;  one  claretglassful 
of  finest  brandy. 

Squeeze  out  the  bruised  cherries  and  stones  over  the 
sugar,  add  the  water,  then  the  brandy  ;  stir,  beat,  and 
freeze. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Ice. — One  quart  of  red  cur- 
rants ;  one  pint  of  water ;  one  pint  of  red  raspberries ; 
one  and  a  half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  the  juice,  mix  in  the  sugar  and  water,  and 
freeze. 

Champagne  Water-ice. — Rasp  six  lemons  on  a  piece  of 
sugar,  and  squeeze  the  lemon  juice  into  a  basin  ;  make  it 
very  sweet,  then  add  a  bottle  of  champagne ;  dilute  it  with 
water,  but  do  not  make  it  too  weak ;  put  it  into  a  freezer, 
and  freeze  like  ice-cream,  beating  and  stirring  to  make  it 
smooth. 

Roman  Punch.  —  One  gallon  of  water;  one  pint  of 
champagne ;  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy ;  one  pint  of 
old  rum ;  juice  of  two  lemons ;  rind  of  four  lemons,  rubbed 
on  sugar. 

Sweeten  to  taste  ;  if  weak,  add  more  brandy ;  freeze  as 
usual. 

Concord  Frozen  Punch.  —  Squeeze   the   juice    of  six 


456  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

lemons  into  three  quarts  of  water  ;  to  each  quart  of  water 
add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
lemonade ;  then  add  a  wineglassful  of  the  best  brandy 
and  a  wineglassful  of  the  best  Jamaica  rum  to  each  quart 
of  water ;  freeze  as  you  freeze  ice-cream. 

Lemon  Water-ice. — Juice  of  six  lemons  to  each  quart 
of  water;  the  rind  of  the  lemon  grated  and  steeped  in  a 
little  water ;  the  water  strained,  and  a  little  of  this  added 
to  the  juice,  improves  the  flavor ;  sugar  to  taste,  always 
bearing  in  mind  that  freezing  diminishes  the  strength  of 
sugar,  and  that  water  requires  more  sugar  than  either  cream 
or  milk;  then  heat,  stir,  and  freeze  as  for  ice-cream. 

Orange  Water-ice. — Make 'precisely  as  above. 

Strawberry,  Raspberry,  and  Pineapple  Water-ice. — 
Sweeten  the  water,  put  it  into  the  freezing-can,  then  mash 
and  stir  the  berries,  or  grate  the  pineapple  ;  press  the  juice 
out  through  muslin,  add  to  the  water  in  the  can,  sweeten 
again  to  taste,  and  freeze;  allow  a  quart  and  a  half  of 
berries  to  each  quart  of  water,  and  a  large  pineapple  to  two 
quarts. 

Genuine  Italian  Tutti-frutti  Ice. — Take  a  large  form 
for  ice-cream ;  have  ready  as  great  a  variety  of  ripe  fruit 
as  possible,  watermelon  included;  seed  the  watermelon, 
cut  it  into  lozenges  or  squares;  put  a  layer  of  it  into  the 
form,  sugaring  it  well  with  granulated  sugar ;  then  a  layer 
of  varied  fruit ;  sugar  abundantly,  and  proceed  in  this  way 
until  the  form  is  packed  full  of  fruit  and  sugar  ;  cover  it, 
set  in  bain-marie  just  long  enough  for  the  sugar  to  dis- 
solve and  the  juices  to  be  started  ;  then  let  it  cool,  and, 
when  cold,  freeze.  This  is  delicious,  and  is  the  genuine 
tutti-frutti. 


ICE-CREAM  AND  WATER-ICES.  457 

Vanilla  Sugar. — One  pound  of  lump  sugar,  and  one 
ounce  of  Mexican  vanilla  beans. 

Cut  the  beans  in  small  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar 
with  the  sugar  until  fine  as  flour;  sift  through  a  fine 
strainer,  pound  the  remainder  again,  and  sift  until  all  is 
fine ;  keep  in  a  tightly  corked  bottle  ;  use  a  tablespoonful 
for  a  quart  of  ice-cream. 

20 


TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  MADE  DRINKS. 

Tea. — One  teaspoonful  for  each  person,  and  one  for  the 
pot ;  scald  the  teapot  well,  put  in  the  tea,  cover  the  pot 
closely,  and  set  by  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  or  more  in  order 
to  heat  the  leaves;  pour  on  them  just  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  the  tea,  cover  the  pot  closely,  and  let  it 
stand  five  minutes  longer.     Then  fill  up  and  serve. 

A  more  economical  method  is  to  toil  the  tea  for  a 
minute,  not  more  ;  half  the  quantity  of  tea  leaves  will  then 
suffice. 

Coffee  (Soyer). — Put  one  ounce  of  ground  coffee  in  a 
pan,  which  place  over  the  fire ;  keep  stirring  until  quite 
hot,  but  take  care  that  it  does  not  burn  ;  then  pour  over  it 
quickly  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  close  it  immediately, 
keep  it  near  the  fire,  and  fill  your  cup  without  shaking  the 
grounds. 

Or,  have  the  coffee-pot  heated,  put  the  hot  coffee  into  a 
strainer  fitted  into  the  coffee-pot,  pour  over  the  boil- 
ing water,  and  serve  at  once.  Coffee  so  made  is  deli- 
cious. 

Russian  Tea — Is  made  like  ordinary  tea,  but  served  in 
small  glasses,  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  floating  in  them. 
It  is  to  be  sugared  to  taste,  and  may  be  taken  hot  or  ice- 
cold. 

Camoric  Tea. — One  pint  of  fresh  milk,  and  the  same  of 
boiling  water ;  sweeten  to  taste. 


TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  MADE  DRINKS.  459 

Cocoa  JSios. — One  quart  of  boiling  water ;  two  ounces 
of  cocoa  nibs ;  one  quart  of  fresh  milk. 

Wet  the  nibs  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  the  boiling 
water,  cook  one  hour  and  a  half,  strain,  add  the  milk,  heat 
to  boiling,  and  take  from  the  fire. 

Prepared  Cocoa.  —  One  quart  of  boiling  water;  two 
ounces  of  prepared  cocoa  ;  one  quart  of  milk. 

Make  as  you  do  chocolate,  only  boil  nearly  an  hour  be- 
fore you  add  the  milk,  afterwards  heating  almost  to  boil- 
ing ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Bevolenta. — Cook  as  you  do  racahout.  It  can  be  bought 
at  any  pharmacy. 

Cafe  au  Lait. — One   pint  of  strong-made  coffee,  hot ; 
one  pint  of  boiling  milk. 
Mix  both  boiling  hot. 

Arab  Baeahout. — One  pound  of  ground  rice ;  one  pound 
of  arrow-root ;  half  a  pound  of  the  best  chocolate,  ground 
fine. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  keep  in  a  jar  for  use;  take  a  table- 
spoonful  of  racahout,  and  make  into  a  paste  with  cold  wa- 
ter or  milk ;  stir  this  paste  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
and  let  it  boil  up  for  a  minute  or  two ;  add  sugar,  if  de- 
sired, and  take  hot  like  chocolate. 

Chocolate.  —  Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  to 
each  pint  of  water;  an  equal  quantity  of  milk;  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Put  on  the  water  boiling  hot ;  rub  the  chocolate  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water;  boil 
twenty  minutes,  add  the  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes  more, 
stirring  frequently ;  froth  with  a  little  milling-machine 
just  before  you  serve. 


460  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Vienna  Coffee. — The  secret  of  preparing  Vienna  coffee 
consists  in  roasting  and  grinding  fresh  coffee  every  time 
it  is  used,  then  in  making  it  in  a  Vienna  coffee  machine, 
in  the  regular  way,  and,  lastly,  in  heating  up  with  it  fresh, 
rich  cream  already  whipped  light. 

Almond  Milk. — Three  dozen  fresh  almonds,  blanched, 
and  pounded  to  paste;  two  bitter  almonds,  blanched,  and 
pounded  to  paste ;  two  lumps  of  loaf  sugar ;  one  pint  of 
water. 

Mix  one  gill  of  boiling  water  with  the  almonds  when 
you  have  pounded  them  in  a  mortar;  strain,  return  to  the 
mortar,  and  pound  with  more  water  until  you  have  used  a 
pint  in  all ;  sweeten  to  taste.  A  delicious  beverage,  but 
it  does  not  keep  long. 

Eggnogg.  —  One  tumblerful  of  cream  and  milk,  half 
and  half ;  one  tablespoonful  of  Jamaica  rum ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy ;  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light — first  with  the 
sugar,  then  with  the  whites,  which  must  previously  have 
been  beaten  light ;  add,  by  degrees,  the  spirits  and  brandy, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  lastly,  add  the  milk  and  cream,  and 
grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

Fresh-milk  Punch. — One  glassful  of  rich,  fresh  milk ;  loaf 
sugar  to  taste;  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  brandy. 
Mix  and  stir  well,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  top. 

Lemonade. — Three  dozen  lemons ;  four  pounds  of  sug- 
ar ;  the  rind  of  two  lemons  shaved  thin. 

Mix  and  stir  well  together,  and  add  water  and  pounded 
ice  in  proportion.     This  quantity  is  for  a  large  party. 

Orangeade. — Three  dozen  sour  oranges ;  two  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar;  the  peel  of  two  oranges  shaved  thin. 
Mix,  and  add  water  and  ice  as  above. 


TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  MADE  DRINKS.  461 

Claret  Punch. — One  bottle  of  claret ;  a  quarter  of  the 
quantity  of  ice-water ;  two  lemons  sliced  fine ;  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar ;  half  a  teacupf  ul  of  grated  pine- 
apple ;  half  a  teacupf  ul  of  ripe  strawberries  mashed  fine ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  brandy. 

Mix  all  the  fruit  together,  then  the  sugar,  then  the  clar- 
et, lastly  the  ice-water;  put  a  large  lump  of  ice  in  the 
bowl,  and  pounded  ice  in  the  glasses. 

Regent's  Punch. — One  pound  of  rock  candy ;  one  large 
cupful  of  strong  black  tea  (made) ;  three  wineglassf uls  of 
brandy ;  three  wineglassf  uls  of  rum ;  one  bottle  of  cham- 
pagne; two  oranges,  the  juice  only;  three  lemons,  the 
juice  only ;  one  large  lump  of  ice. 

Poman  Punch.  —  Three  coffeecupfuls  of  lemonade, 
strong  and  sweet ;  one  glassful  of  champagne ;  one  glass- 
ful of  rum ;  two  oranges,  the  juice  only ;  two  eggs,  whites 
only,  well  whipped  ;  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  beat- 
en into  the  whipped  whites. 

It  is  best  always  to  freeze  a  Eoman  punch. 

Mulled  Cider. — One  quart  of  cider ;  eight  eggs ;  a  few 
grains  of  allspice. 

If  the  cider  is  hard  reduce  it  with  water,  and  put  it  to 
boil  with  the  allspice ;  meanwhile  beat  the  eggs  light  in 
a  large  pitcher,  pour  the  cider  on  the  eggs,  and  pour  from 
one  pitcher  to  another  until  it  has  a  fine  froth  on  it ;  grate 
a  little  nutmeg  on  each  glass  as  it  is  poured  out. 

Beer  Flip. — Put  as  much  ale,  porter,  or  beer  as  you  re- 
quire into  a  tin  can,  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  heat  the  thick 
end  of  a  poker,  or  any  other  piece  of  iron  that  is  clean 
and  convenient,  red-hot,  and  stir  the  mixture  with  it  un- 
til it  ceases  to  bubble ;  drink  it  hot. 

Sangaree. — One  glassful  of  port  wine ;  one  tablespoon- 


462  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

f  ul  of  powdered  sugar ;  half  a  pint  of  porter ;  grated  nut- 
meg to  taste. 

Sherry  Cobbler. — One  gill  of  sherry  wine;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  sugar. 

Add  a  small  quantity  of  any  fruit  in  season,  such  as  a 
small  slice  of  pineapple,  a  few  strawberries  or  cherries,  or 
half  a  ripe  peach ;  then  fill  up  the  tumbler  with  small 
pieces  of  ice ;  invert  an  empty  tumbler  of  exactly  the  same 
size  and  put  the  rims  together;  then  shake  hard  and  long, 
and  fill  up  the  tumbler  with  more  ice,  beaten  to  the  size 
of  hailstones ;  drink  through  a  straw.  If  you  use  cham- 
pagne, use  less  sugar. 

Fruit  Sherbets. — Mash  any  ripe  fruit,  and  pass  it  first 
through  a  coarse,  then  through  a  fine,  sieve;  to  every 
quart  of  juice  add  a  quart  of  water,  and  sweeten  with 
powdered  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  strain  again, 
and  keep  in  the  refrigerator  until  wanted. 

Mulled  Wine. — One  pint  of  Madeira  wine ;  one  pint  of 
hot  water ;  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  a  tea- 
cupful  of  sweet  cream ;  sugar  and  spice  to  taste. 

Boil  the  wine  and  water  quickly,  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  in  the  eggs,  sugar,  spices,  and  cream. 

Sjpiced  Wine  (Florentine  fashion). — One  pint  of  ordi- 
nary red  wine;  one  pint  of  hot  water;  stick  cinnamon 
to  taste;  one  grated  nutmeg;  cloves  and  other  spices  to 
taste ;  sugar  to  taste ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  candied 
orange  peel,  snipped  fine. 

Boil  the  wine  and  water  as  above,  take  it  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  the  sugar,  spices,  and  orange  peel,  and  return  it  to 
the  fire,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  and 
then  strain  and  serve.  Strips  of  toast  should  be  served 
with  it. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND 
INVALIDS. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  1. — Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  into 
a  basin  ;  cover  the  bread  with  cold  water ;  place  it  in  the 
oven  for  two  hours  to  bake ;  take  it  out ;  beat  the  bread 
up  with  a  fork,  and  slightly  sweeten  it. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  2. — Boil  the  crumbs  of  white 
bread  for  two  hours  in  water,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
burn  ;  then  add  milk ;  allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Food  for  Infante,  No.  3.— Take  a  pound  of  sifted  white 
flour ;  put  it  in  a  cloth,  tie  it  tightly,  and  let  it  boil  for 
four  or  five  hours ;  then  take  off  the  cloth ;  peel  off  the 
outer  rind ;  the  inside  will  be  found  quite  dry,  which  grate, 
and  mix  with  boiled  milk  when  required. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  4. — Bake  some  fine  white  sifted 
flour  in  a  slow  oven  until  it  is  of  a  delicate  fawn  color. 
This  preparation  of  flour,  made  into  gruel,  is  an  excellent 
food  for  an  infant. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  5.  —  Crumb  some  bread  on  a 
plate ;  dry  it  near  the  fire,  then  roll  fine,  and  pass  through 
a  sieve ;  then  ^>ut  it  in  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  until  of  a 
light  fawn  color ;  make  into  gruel. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  6. — Two  parts  of  baked  flour ; 
one  part  of  prepared  oatmeal. 


464  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  sift;  one  tablespoonful  of  this, 
mixed  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  or  milk  and  water, 
when  well  boiled  and  sweetened  with  white  sugar,  makes  a 
thick,  nourishing,  and  delicious  food  for  infants  and  in- 
valids. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  7. — Farinaceous  food  for  infants, 
prepared  by  Herds,  of  Dartford,  England — sold  in  pharma- 
cies and  druggists'  shops ;  one  tablespoonful  to  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  and  well  boiled ;  if  found 
too  constipating,  let  it  be  mixed  with  equal  parts  of  Rob- 
ertson's patent  groats. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  8. — Soak  for  an  hour  some  rice 
in  cold  water;  strain,  and  add  fresh  water;  then  let  it 
simmer  until  it  will  pulp  through  a  sieve ;  put  the  pulp 
and  the  water  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  lump  or  two  of 
sugar,  and  again  let  it  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  a 
portion  of  this  to  be  mixed  with  one  third  of  fresh  milk, 
so  as  to  make  it  of  the  consistency  of  good  cream. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  9. — Excellent  for  relaxed  bowels. 
Into  five  large  spoonfuls  of  the  purest  filtered  water  rub 
smooth  one  dessertspoonful  of  fine  flour ;  set  over  the  fire 
five  spoonfuls  of  new  milk,  and  put  two  bits  of  lump  sugar 
into  it ;  the  moment  it  boils,  pour  it  into  the  flour  and 
water,  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  twenty  minutes. 

Food  for  Infants,  No.  10. — In  cases  of  great  emaciation 
genuine  arrow-root  (to  be  bought  at  first-class  druggists') 
is  an  excellent  food ;  it  should  be  made  with  fresh  milk, 
and  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar;  a  small  pinch  of  table 
salt  should  be  added. 

Flour  Ball  (for  teething  children). — One  cupful  of  flour 
tied  in  a  stout  muslin  bag,  and  dropped  into  cold  water, 
then  set  over  the  fire ;  toil  three  hours  steadily ;  turn  out 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  465 

the  flour  ball,  and  dry  in  the  hot  sun  all  day,  or,  if  you 
need  it  at  once,  dry  in  a  moderate  oven  without  shutting 
the  door. 

To  cook  it,  grate  one  tablespoonful  of  the  flour  for  a 
cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  water;  wet  the  flour  with  a 
little  cold  water,  stir  in,  and  boil  five  minutes;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt. 

Bread  and  Milk. — Two  tablespoonf uls  of  stale  bread 
crumbled  finely ;  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk ;  a  pinch 
of  sugar. 

Milk  Porridge.  —  One  tablespoonful  of  Indian  meal, 
moistened  with  cold  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour,  also  mixed  with  cold  water ;  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water ;  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes,  add 
the  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often. 

Mush  and  Milk. — One  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  wet  with 
cold  water ;  two  quarts  of  cold  water ;  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  two  hours,  stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  eat 
hot  with  milk  and  sugar. 

Hominy  and  Milk. — Half  a  cupful  of  small  hominy ; 
one  scant  quart  of  cold  water;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often ;  mix  in  new  milk,  and 
sweeten  while  hot.  This  is  a  good  food  to  correct  con- 
stipation. 

Hecker's  Farina  (or  Semolina)  and  Milk. — One  cupful 
of  boiling  water ;  one  cupful  of  fresh  milk ;  one  large  ta- 
blespoonful of  Hecker's  farina,  moistened  with  cold  wa- 
ter; two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water  (salted)  in  the  bain- 
marie,  or  farina  kettle ;  i.  e.,  one  boiler  set  in  another  full 
of  hot  water ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until 

20* 


466  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

it  is  well  thickened ;  then  add  the  milk,  stirring  it  gradu- 
ally, and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer;  sweeten  to  taste. 
This  is  a  digestible,  palatable,  and  nourishing  food  for 
children. 

Wheaten  Grits  and  Milk. — Four  tablespoonf  uls  of  grits 
(cracked  wheat)  soaked  in  cold  water  an  hour ;  one  quart 
of  boiling  water ;  one  cupful  of  milk ;  one  pinch  of 
salt. 

Boil  the  soaked  grits  in  the  water  an  hour,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer ;  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  eat  with  cream.  Good  for  constipation  in 
children  over  a  year  old. 

Arrow-root  and  Milk. — One  cupful  of  boiling  water ; 
one  cupful  of  fresh  milk;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  best  Ber- 
muda arrow -root,  wet  with  cold  water;  one  pinch  of 
salt;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  the 
milk. 

Stir  the  arrow-root  paste  into  the  boiling  water,  stir  and 
boil  until  clear;  add  the  sweetened  milk,  and  boil  ten 
minutes,  slowly  stirring.  You  may  omit  the  milk  if  nec- 
essary. 

Barley  Bouillie. — Two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water;  two 
tablespoonf  uls  of  prepared  barley,  wet  with  cold  water; 
one  pinch  of  salt ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar. 

Make  as  above.  It  can  also  be  made  with  milk.  This  is 
astringent. 

Graham  Hasty  Pttdding. — One  cupful  of  Graham  flour, 
wet  with  cold  water;  one  cupful  of  milk;  one  cupful  of 
boiling  water ;  one  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the  wet  flour  into  the  boiling  water;  boil  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly ;  add  the  milk  and  cook,  after  it 
has  come  to  a  boil,  ten  minutes ;  eat  with  sugar  and  milk, 
or  nutmeg,  cream,  and  sugar. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  467 

Rice -flour  Hasty  Pudding. — Make  as  above,  but  with 
rice  flour. 

Panada,  No.  1. — One  ounce  of  bread  crumbs ;  one  blade 
of  mace ;  one  pint  of  water. 

Boil,  without  stirring,  till  they  mix  and  turn  smooth, 
then  add  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  sherry,  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Panada,  No.  2.  —  Six  hard  biscuits  split;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  a  little  grated 
nutmeg ;  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover  them. 

Split  the  biscuits,  and  pile  in  a  bowl  in  layers,  salt  and 
sugar  scattered  among  them ;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  set  on  the  hearth,  with  a  close  top  over  the  bowl,  for 
at  least  one  hour ;  the  biscuits  should  be  as  clear  and  soft 
as  jelly,  but  not  broken ;  eat  from  the  bowl. 

Porridge. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  coarsely  ground  oat- 
meal, mixed  smoothly  with  a  small  teacupf  ul  of  cold  water ; 
one  pint  of  boiling  water  poured  on  ;  boil  and  stir  for  forty 
minutes  ;  eat  with  milk. 

Oatmeal  Flummery. — Crushed  Embden  grits  in  any 
proportion  required ;  put  into  a  broad  pan,  cover  with 
water,  stir  up  together  and  let  stand  thirty -six  hours, 
changing  the  water,  and  stirring  up  the  oatmeal,  however, 
every  twelve  hours;  then  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
boil,  stirring  vigorously  until  it  is  quite  thick ;  pour  it 
to  cool  into  a  dish,  and  eat  cold  with  milk,  or  wine  and 
sugar. 

Pice  Milk  (Gouffe). — Two  and  a  half  ounces  of  best 
Carolina  rice  blanched  in  plenty  of  water;  three  pints  of 
milk  boiled  in  a  two-quart  stewpan. 

Cool  the  rice  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  drain  ;  then 
mix  the  rice  in  the  milk,  and  stir  on  the  fire  till  boiling ; 


468  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  salt ; 
boil  for  an  hour ;  serve. 

Other  milk  soups,  such  as  vermicelli,  farina,  tapioca,  etc., 
are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Bice,  Boiled. — Half  a  cupful  of  whole  rice  boiled  in 
just  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  one  cupful  of  milk ;  a  little 
salt ;  one  egg  beaten  light. 

When  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add  the 
milk,  and  simmer,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  scorch,  until 
the  milk  boils  up  well ;  salt,  and  beat  in  the  egg ;  eat 
warm,  with  cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Biscuit  and  Milk. — One  hard  sailor's  biscuit,  soaked 
eight  hours  in  milk ;  pour  off  what  milk  is  not  absorbed, 
and  mix  it  up  in  a  pint  of  new  milk. 

Rice  Pudding. — Two  ounces  of  rice ;  one  pint  of  milk. 

Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk,  stirring  until  it  thickens ;  take 
it  off  and  mix  in  well  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a 
nutmeg,  grated,  and  a  moderate  quantity  of  sugar ;  pour 
into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake. 

Batter  Pudding.  —  Three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour;  one 
pint  of  milk ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  of  powdered  ginger,  nut- 
meg, and  tincture  of  saffron,  each  a  teaspoonful. 

Boil  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar. 

Unleavened  Biscuit. — Mix  good,  dry,  sifted  flour  with 
milk ;  salt,  and  roll  out  thin  as  letter-paper ;  cut  into  round 
cakes,  and  bake  quickly.  They  may  also  be  mixed  with 
water. 

Arrow-root  Blanc-mange. — One  cupful  of  boiling  milk ; 
two  dessertspoonfuls  of  best  arrow-root  rubbed  smooth  in 
cold  water;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  flavor  to 
taste. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  469 

Boil  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  while;  eat 
cold  with  cream. 

Tapioca  Blanc-mange. — One  cupful  of  tapioca,  washed 
well,  soaked  in  water  four  hours;  three  cupfuls  of  boil- 
ing milk ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  flavor  to 
taste. 

When  soaked,  stir  the  tapioca,  with  the  water  in  which 
it  was  soaked,  into  the  boiling  milk;  sweeten  and  boil 
slowly,  stirring  constantly  ;  take  off,  flavor,  and  pour  into 
moulds. 

Sea-moss  Blanc-mange — Is  made  as  you  make  sea-moss 
jelly,  using  boiling  milk  instead  of  water,  and  leaving  out 
the  lemons  and  wine. 

Beefsteak,  or  Mutton  Chop,  Broiled. — Choose  the  ten- 
derest  cuts,  and  broil  carefully  over  a  clear,  fierce  fire  ;  salt 
and  pepper  (if  agreeable  to  the  invalid) ;  lay  between  two 
hot  plates  three  minutes,  and  serve. 

Cold  Beef  Tea. — Half  a  pound  of  fine  lean  beef  cut 
into  small  pieces  ;  half  a  pint  of  cold  spring  water. 

Pour  the  water  on  the  beef,  and  add  one  teaspoonf ul  of 
diluted  hydrochloric  acid ;  let  it  stand  four  hours,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place ;  the  whole  proc- 
ess must  be  cold  ;  never  warm  it ;  take  a  wineglassful  three 
times  a  day ;  a  little  wine  can  be  added.  This  is  sustain- 
ing and  digestible,  when  all  the  other  beef  teas  fail. 

Whole-Beef  Tea. — For  every  pint  of  beef  tea  required 
take  half  a  pound  of  fresh-killed  beef,  and  remove  all  fat, 
sinew,  veins,  and  bone  ;  let  it  be  cut  up  into  pieces  under 
half  an  inch  square,  and  soak  for  twelve  hours  in  one  third 
of  the  water ;  let  it  then  be  taken  out,  and  simmered  for 
two  hours  in  the  remaining  two  thirds  of  the  water,  the 
quantity  lost  by  evaporation  being  replaced  from  time  to 


470  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

time ;  the  boiling  liquor  is  then  to  be  poured  on  the  cold 
liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  soaked  ;  the  solid  meat  is  to 
be  dried,  pounded  in  a  mortar,  freed  from  all  stringy  parts, 
and  mixed  with  the  rest. 

When  the  beef  tea  is  made  daily  it  is  convenient  to  use 
one  day's  boiled  meat  for  the  next  day's  tea,  as  thus  it  has 
time  to  dry,  and  is  easier  pounded.  If  agreeable  to  the 
invalid,  a  piece  of  green  celery  stalk  or  a  small  onion,  a 
piece  of  fresh  tomato  or  a  few  cloves,  may  be  boiled  in  the 
beef  tea. 

Quick  Beef  Tea. — To  each  pound  of  minced  raw  beef, 
one  pint  of  water ;  stir  up  cold,  and  let  it  stand  one  hour ; 
then  heat  a  bain-marie  up  to  180°  Fahrenheit  for  another 
hour  over  a  slow  fire ;  strain,  skim,  and  flavor  at  discre- 
tion. 

Beefand-Hen  Broth. — One  pound  of  lean  beef;  half 
alien,  boned  ;  pound  together  in  a  mortar,  add  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  salt;  put  in  a  stewpan  with  two  and  a  half 
pints  of  water,  and  stir  over  the  lire  till  boiling ;  then  add 
carrots,  onions,  and  celery  at  discretion ;  boil  for  half  an 
hour,  strain,  and  serve. 

Nutrient  Beef  Enema  (in  cases  where  the  stomach  re- 
jects food). — Half  a  pint  of  good  beef  tea,  thickened  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  tapioca. 

Or,  reduce  one  and  three  quarter  ounces  of  raw  beef 
to  a  fine  pulp,  pass  it  through  a  fine  colander,  and  mix 
the  whole  up  with  twenty  grains  of  acid  pepsin e  {Bou- 
douttfs  Poudre  Digestive),  and  four  grains  of  diastase,  or 
a  dessertspoonful  of  malt  flour.  It  should  have  a  bright 
rose  tint, .and  a  rich,  meaty  odor;  not  more  than  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  should  be  given  at  once,  and  that  slowly. 

Eel  Broth. — Skin,  clean,  and  chop  into  small  pieces  six 
small  eels ;   boil  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  skim,  and 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  471 

then  cover  and  stew  for  forty  minutes  ;  season,  strain,  and 
serve. 

Beef-and-Sago  Broth. — Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut 
into  dice  ;  one  cupful  of  sago  soaked  soft  in  a  little  luke- 
warm water  ;  two  quarts  of  water ;  yolks  of  three  eggs  ; 
salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  beef  to  rags, strain,  salt,  and  stir  in  the  sago; 
simmer  gently  one  hour,  stirring  often ;  add  the  beaten 
yolks,  boil  up  well,  and  serve. 

Beef  Tea. — One  pound  of  lean  beef  cut  into  dice ;  put 
into  a  jar  without  a  drop  of  water,  cover  tightly,  and  set 
in  a  pot  of  cold  water ;  heat  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  con- 
tinue this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours. 

Pennington's  Old  Virginia  Beef -Tea  Tonic.  —  One 
pound  of  lean,  juicy  beef;  half  a  pint  of  cold  water;  half 
a  pint  of  old  bourbon  whiskey. 

Cut  the  beef  into  pieces  about  half  an  inch  square ; 
pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  cover,  and  let  it 
stand  twelve  hours ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  old  bourbon 
whiskey,  and  let  it  stand  six  hours ;  then  strain  three  or 
four  times  until  quite  clear ;  keep  (closely  covered)  in  a 
cool  place,  and  take  a  small  wineglassful  two  or  three  times 
a  day.     This  is  a  capital  tonic. 

Calf \s- feet  Broth.  —  Two  calf's  feet;  two  quarts  of 
cold  water;  one  egg^  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk  for  each  cupful  of  broth  ;  pepper  (white)  and  salt  to 
taste. 

Boil  the  feet  to  shreds,  strain  through  a  thick  muslin 
bag,  season,  and  set  by  for  use,  warming  up  as  you  need  it, 
and  adding  to  each  cupful  a  beaten  egg  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk ;  boil  up  once  with  these  a  teaspoonful 
of  wine;  or  a  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  agreeable 
to  the  patient. 


412  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK, 

Chicken  Jelly  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). — 
Half  a  raw  chicken  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and  meat ; 
a  quart  of  cold  water ;  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  jar  until  the 
meat  is  like  white  rags,  and  the  liquid  reduced  to  one  half ; 
strain  and  press  through  a  sieve  and  coarse  cloth ;  salt  to 
taste,  return  to  the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer ; 
when  cold,  skim  ;  keep  on  the  ice,  and  serve  cold  with  un- 
leavened wafers,  or  make  into  sandwiches  with  thin  bread 
and  butter. 

Mutton  Broth,  ISTo.  1. — Lean  loin  of  mutton,  one  pound, 
exclusive  of  bone ;  three  pints  of  water. 

Boil  gently  until  tender,  throwing  in  a  little  salt  and 
onion  to  taste ;  pour  the  broth  into  a  basin,  and,  when  cold, 
skim  off  the  fat ;  warm  up  as  wanted ;  if  barley  or  rice  are 
added,  they  must  be  boiled  separately  until  soft,  and  added 
when  the  broth  is  heated  for  use. 

Mutton  Broth,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  lean  mutton,  cut 
into  dice ;  one  quart  of  cold  water ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
rice  (soaked  in  warm  water) ;  four  tablespoonf uls  of  milk ; 
salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  boil  the  meat,  unsalted, 
in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely  covered  until  it  falls  to 
pieces ;  strain,  add  the  barley  and  rice,  simmer  half  an 
hour,  stirring  often  ;  stir  in  the  seasoning  and  milk,  sim- 
mer five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken  Broth,  ~Eo.  1. — Skin,  and  chop  up  fine,  a  small 
chicken  or  half  a  large  fowl,  and  boil  it,  bones  and  all,  with  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  crust  of  bread,  in  a 
quart  of  water  for  an  hour,  skimming  it  from  time  to  time ; 
strain,  season,  and  serve.  Chicken  broth  poured  on  sippets 
laid  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish  makes  a  good  sauce  for 
boiled  chicken  or  partridge,  when  the  invalid  is  well 
enough  to  be  allowed  solid  food. 

Chicken  Broth,  No.  2. — Make  exactly  as  you  do  mutton 
broth,  cracking  the  bones  well. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  473 

Veal-and-Sago  Broth.— Two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal 
cracked  all  to  pieces  ;  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  best  pearl  sago  soaked  in  a  cupful  of  water; 
one  cupful  of  cream  heated  to  boiliug ;  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  light. 

Boil  the  veal  water  in  a  covered  saucepan  very  slowly 
until  reduced  to  one  quart  of  liquid  ;  strain,  season  with 
salt,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  sago,  having  previously  warmed 
it  by  setting  it  half  an  hour  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
and  stirring  it;  simmer  half  an  hour,  taking  care  it  does 
not  burn  ;  beat  in  the  cream  and  eggs,  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Arrow-root  Custard.  —  Two  cupfuls  of  ooiling  milk; 
three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  arrow-root  moistened  with  a 
little  cold  milk  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  beat- 
en with  the  egg;  one  egg,  well  beaten. 

Mix  the  arrow-root  paste  with  the  boiling  milk,  stir  three 
minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  and  whip  in  the  egg  and  sug- 
ar;  boil  two  minutes  longer,  flavor  to  taste,  and  pour  into 
moulds. 

Rice-flour  Milk. — Two  cupfuls  of  toiling  milk ;  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  rice  flour  wet  with  cold  water ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar. 

Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  flavor  to 
taste. 

Sago  Milk. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  soaked  in  a 
large  cupful  of  water  one  hour ;  three  cupfuls  of  boiling 
milk ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Simmer  half  an  hour. 

Tapioca  Milk — Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Water  Gruel.  —  One  large  tablespoonful  of  oatmeal 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  cold  water. 

Pour  on,  stirring  all  the  time,  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 


4*74  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  steadily,  and  strain  ;  eat  with 
salt  or  sugar. 

Childress  Gruel. — Half  an  ounce  of  grits ;  two  thirds 
of  a  pint  of  water ;  one  third  of  a  pint  of  milk ;  half  an 
ounce  of  sugar. 

Mix  and  cook  as  above. 

Mice  Gruel  (somewhat  astringent,  in  cases  of  diarrhoea). 
— Two  ounces  of  ground  rice ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cinnamon  ;  four  pints  of  water. 

Boil  for  forty  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  or- 
ange marmalade. 

Sago  Gruel. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sago;  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  one  wineglassf  ul  of  white  wine ; 
two  cupfuls  of  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice; 
nutmeg  to  taste  ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  the  sago  in  the  water  while  cold,  and  warm  by  set- 
ting in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water;  stir  often,  and  let  it 
soften  and  heat  for  one  hour ;  then  boil  ten  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  and  add  the  seasoning. 

Or,  you  may  omit  the  wine  and  lemon,  and  eat  the  sago 
with  a  little  cream. 

Milh-and- Rice-flour  Gruel  (astringent). — Two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  wet  with  cold  milk ;  one  quart 
of  boiling  milk ;  one  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Stir  in  the  rice  paste,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while ;  season  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  warm 
with  cream. 

White  Indian-meal  Gruel. — Make  as  above,  but  boil 
half  an  hour. 

Indian-meal  Gruel. — One  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  sift- 
ed ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 


DIETAEY  FOE  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  475 

Wet  the  meal  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into  the  boil- 
ing water;  boil  slowly  half  an  hour,  stirring  constantly 
from  the  bottom.  A  handful  of  Sultana  raisins,  stoned,  is 
an  improvement  to  this  gruel  if  the  patient  can  digest 
them. 

Tapioca  Jelly. — One  cupful  of  tapioca ;  three  cupf uls 
of  cold  water ;  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  the 
grated  peel ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  four  hours ;  set  within  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  heat,  stirring  frequently  ;  if  too 
thick,  add  a  little  boiling  water  as  it  begins  to  clear ;  when 
clear,  strain  through  coarse  lace  and  add  the  sugar — or, 
better  still,  rock  candy — and  the  lemon  ;  pour  into  moulds, 
and  eat  with  cream  flavored  and  sweetened  to  taste. 

Arrow-root  Jelly. — One  cupful  of  boiling  water;  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  the  best  Bermuda  arrow-root ;  two 
teaspoonf  uls  of  white  sugar. 

Wet  the  arrow-root  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  rub  smooth ; 
then  stir  into  the  already  boiling  water,  in  which  the  sug- 
ar must  first  have  been  melted  ;  stir  till  clear,  boiling  stead- 
ily, and  add  the  flavoring. 

Arrow-root  Wine  Jelly. — Make  as  above,  but  add  one  ta- 
blespoonful  of  burned  brandy  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
burned  sherry. 

Iceland  or  Irish  Moss  Jelly.  —  One  handful  of  moss, 
washed  in  five  waters,  and  soaked  an  hour ;  one  quart  of 
boiling  water;  two  lemons  (or  oranges),  the  juice  only; 
a  pinch  of  cinnamon;  sugar  to  taste  —  rock  candy  is 
better. 

Soak  the  washed  moss  in  a  very  little  cold  water;  stir 
into  the  boiling,  and  simmer  until  dissolved  ;  sweeten,  fla- 
vor, and  strain  into  moulds.  Wine  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 


476  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Rice  Jelly  (excellent  for  children  with  weak  bowels). — 
Half  a  cupful  of  whole  rice,  well  washed,  and  soaked  two 
hours  in  a  little  warm  water ;  then  add  to  the  rice  and  wa- 
ter in  the  kettle  three  pints  of  cold  water ;  one  small  pinch 
of  salt  put  in  the  cold  water ;  sweeten  to  taste  with  rock 
candy  when  strained ;  strain  through  double  tarlatan. 

Isinglass  Jelly. — One  ounce  of  isinglass ;  twelve  cloves ; 
two  ounces  of  rock  candy ;  one  quart  of  water. 

Boil  the  isinglass  and  cloves  in  the  water  down  to  a 
pint ;  strain  hot  through  a  flannel  bag  on  the  rock  candy, 
and  flavor  with  angelica  root,  or  two  or  three  tabiespoon- 
f  uls  of  liqueur  de  la  grande  Chartreuse  if  cloves  are  not 
relished. 

Hartshorn  or  Ivory  Jelly. — Half  a  pound  of  hartshorn 
shavings  (not  raspings,  which  are  adulterated) ;  three  pints 
of  water ;  three  ounces  of  white  sugar  candy ;  one  ounce 
of  lemon  juice. 

Boil  the  shavings  in  the  water  down  to  a  pint,  strain  on 
the  sugar  candy,  and  add  the  lemon  juice ;  heat  up  again 
to  boiling-point.  Ivory  jelly  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  substituting  ivory  for  hartshorn  shavings. 

Bread  Jelly. — Pare  some  slices  of  stale  white  bread,  and 
toast  them  to  an  even  light  brown  ;  pile  in  a  bowl,  sprink- 
ling sugar  and  a  little  salt  between ;  cover  well  with  hott- 
ing water,  fit  on  a  tight  lid,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  simmer  gently  until  the  contents  are  like  jelly ;  eat 
warm  with  powdered  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Dry  Toast. — Pare  off  the  crust  from  stale  light  bread, 
slice  half  an  inch  thick,  and  toast  quickly  on  both  sides ; 
serve  hot. 

Milk  Toast. — Toast  as  above ;  dip  each  slice,  as  fast  as 
toasted,  in  boiling  water ;  butter,  salt  slightly,  and  lay  in 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  411 

a  deep  covered  dish ;  have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough 
boiling  milk  to  cover  all  well ;  when  the  toast  is  packed 
in  the  dish,  salt  the  milk  slightly,  melt  in  a  bit  of  butter, 
and  pour  over  them ;  cover  closely,  and  let  it  stand  five 
minutes  before  using  it. 

Stewed  Fruit  for  Young  Children.  —  Put  sliced  and 
peeled  apples,  or  plums,  currants,  and  gooseberries,  into  a 
stone  jar,  and  sprinkle  among  them  as  much  brown  sugar 
as  is  necessary ;  put  in  a  large  teacupf ul  of  water  to  keep 
the  fruit  from  burning ;  slices  of  bread  or  some  rice  may 
be  put  in  the  jar  to  eat  with  the  fruit.  This  is  a  very  good 
and  simple  way  of  preparing  food  for  children. 

Bread  Collops  for  Children  or  Invalids.  —  Make  the 
bread  collops  the  day  you  roast  beef;  when  the  beef  is 
ready  for  the  spit  cut  out  of  it  at  intervals  some  thick 
slices;  in  the  gaps  made  by  these  slices  fit  closely  some 
thick  slices  of  stale  white  bread ;  fasten  them  by  means 
of  skewers,  and  leave  them  there  while  the  beef  roasts. 
They  will  be  thoroughly  soaked  through  with  beef  juice, 
and  the  cut  slices  may  be  broiled  on  a  gridiron  and  served 
with  them. 

Bread  Pudding  with  Egg. — Two  ounces  of  crumbs  of 
bread ;  half  a  pint  of  fresh  milk,  boiling  hot. 

Pour  the  hot  milk  on  the  bread,  cover,  and  leave  for  an 
hour;  then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  rose  or  orange  flower  water,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  sugar;  beat  all  together,  tie  up,  and 
boil,  steam,  or  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Bread  Pudding  without  Egg. — Pour  half  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk  over  two  ounces  of  bread  crumb,  cover,  and  leave 
for  an  hour;  then  flavor  to  taste,  beat  light,  tie  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  twenty  minutes. 


478  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Bread  Sauce. — The  crumbs  of  one  French  roll ;  half  a 
pint  of  water ;  six  or  eight  black  peppercorns  ;  a  small  piece 
of  onion  ;  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  till  smooth ;  then  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut,  and  mix  for  use.  It  is  good  hot  with  hot  birds, 
cold  with  cold  birds,  and  is  an  excellent  food  for  the 
sick. 

Brown-Bread  Sauce. — Same  quantity  of  brown-bread 
crumb  as  above ;  half  a  pint  of  water ;  six  peppercorns ; 
one  tomato  (or  more),  peeled  and  sliced ;  a  small  piece  of 
onion ;  salt  to  taste. 

Cook  as  above. 

Duke  of  York's  Universal  Sauce  for  Invalids. — Hard- 
dried  toast  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar;  one  tablespoonful 
of  peppercorns  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar;  one  teacupful 
of  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  dessertspoonful  of 
vinegar ;  a  pinch  of  parsley  chopped  fine. 

Boil  the  pounded  toast,  peppercorns,  parsley,  and  salt 
in  the  water ;  then  add  the  vinegar,  or  tarragon  vinegar, 
or  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  au  Naturel  for  Fish. — All  fish  is  made  more  di- 
gestible by  having  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  squeezed 
over  it. 

White  Mayonnaise  Sauce  for  Invalids. — The  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  a  pinch  of  pepper ;  twelve 
teaspoonf uls  of  olive-oil ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  vin- 
egar. 

Rub  the  yolk  to  a  powder  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  then 
add  the  oil,  drop  by  drop,  stirring  steadily  all  the  time; 
then  the  vinegar  and  salt. 

Egg  Soup. — Yolks  of  two  eggs;  one  pint  of  water; 
butter,  a  lump  as  large  as  a  walnut ;  sugar  to  taste. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  479 

Beat  up  over  a  slow  fire,  gradually  adding  the  water; 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  it  backwards  and  forwards 
between  the  vessels,  until  it  is  smooth  and  frothy. 

Soup  Meagre. — Half  a  pound  of  butter ;  six  medium- 
sized  onions  peeled  and  cut  small;  one  bunch  of  celery 
cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long;  one  handful  of  spinach  cut 
small ;  one  bundle  of  parsley  chopped  fine ;  a  very  little 
flour ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  a  handful  of  dry  bread 
crust  broken  fine ;  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  salt  to  taste ; 
three  blades  of  mace  beaten  fine ;  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  light;  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar. 

When  the  butter  is  melted  throw  in  the  onions,  stir 
and  shake  well ;  then  sprinkle  in  the  celery,  spinach,  and 
parsley,  and  shake  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then  sprinkle 
in  the  flour,  and  stir  well;  pour  on  the  boiling  water,  add 
the  bread  crust,  salt,  pepper,  and  mace ;  boil  gently  another 
half-hour ;  then  beat  up  the  eggs  and  vinegar,  stir  in,  and 
the  soup  is  ready. 

Bread  Soup. — Take  the  crust  of  a  stale  roll,  cut  it  in 
pieces,  and  boil  well  in  a  pint  of  water  with  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  stirring  and  beating  until  the 
bread  is  mixed  ;  season  with  celery  and  salt. 

Spinach  Soup. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  fresh  spin- 
ach, picked,  washed,  and  chopped  ;  four  ounces  of  fresh 
butter ;  one  ounce  of  sifted  flour ;  two  quarts  of  chicken 
broth ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream. 

Put  the  spinach  and  butter  into  a  three-quart  stewpan, 
stir  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  add  the  flour,  and  stir 
again  three  or  four  minutes;  then  stir  in  two  quarts  of 
chicken  broth,  till  it  boils ;  simmer  on  a  cool  stove  for 
half  an  hour,  and  add  the  cream.  Endive  or  lettuce  soup 
may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

InvalicVs  Toasted  Cheese, — Quite  new  cheese  cut  into 


480  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

thin  slices,  buttered,  and.  basted  while  toasting  with  a  little 
cream ;  let  it  be  brought  up  on  a  hot- water  plate,  and 
eaten  with  a  little  stale  bread.  This  dish  is  delicious,  but 
should  never  be  eaten  by  an  invalid  without  the  doctor's 
permission. 

Lettuce  with  Gravy  (Gouffe). —  Eight  round  and  full 
cabbage  lettuce ;  three  pinches  of  salt ;  one  fagot,  or 
sweet  bunch,  consisting  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  a  bay 
leaf;  one  onion,  with  two  cloves  stuck  into  it;  enough 
broth  to  cover  the  lettuce ;  two  gills  of  stock-pot  fat. 

Trim  off  all  the  outside  leaves  of  the  lettuce,  wash,  and 
blanch  ten  minutes,  cool  well,  squeeze  out  the  water,  cut 
them  in  two,  lay  them  open  on  a  dish,  and  season ;  tie  the 
halves  together,  and  put  in  a  two-quart  saucepan ;  cover 
with  broth,  and  add  the  other  ingredients  as  above ;  place 
a  round  of  paper  on  top,  and  simmer  for  two  hours ;  when 
cooked,  drain  on  a  cloth  until  dry,  and  open  the  lettuce, 
cut  the  stalks  out,  anpl  fold  the  leaves  round,  and  dish  them 
in  a  circle  ;  reduce  one  pint  of  household  gravy  to  half  the 
quantity,  pour  over  the  lettuce,  and  serve ;  thin  slices  of 
crumb  of  bread,  cut  in  the  shape  of  lettuce,  can  be  put 
in  at  intervals. 

Invalids  Mashed  Potato. — Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes 
in  their  jackets,  until  they  are  tender;  peel  them,  rub 
them  through  a  fine  sieve ;  when  cool,  add  a  small  teacup- 
f  ul  of  cream  and  a  little  salt,  beating  the  puree  up  light- 
ly until  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  warm  again  before  eat- 
ing. 

Invalid's  Potato  Surprise. — Scoop  out  the  inside  of  a 
sound  potato,  leaving  the  skin  attached  on  one  side  to  the 
hole,  as  a  lid ;  mince  up  fine  the  lean  of  a  juicy  mutton 
chop,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  put  into  the  potato, 
fasten  the  lid,  and  bake  or  roast;  before  serving  add  a 
little  hot  gravy  if  the  mince  seems  too  dry. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  481 

Boiled  Pigeon  or  Partridge. —  Clean  and  season  the 
bird,  enclose  it  in  puff  paste,  and  boil;  serve  in  its  own 
gravy,  supplemented  by  the  liver  rubbed  up  with  some 
stock,  and  do  not  forget  the  bread  sauce. 

Boiled  Flounders. — Put  the  flounders  in  a  stewpan, 
with  a  moderate  quantity  of  boiling  water,  seasoned  with 
a  little  salt;  take  off  the  scum,  and  continue  the  boiling 
ten  minutes ;  drain  the  fish,  squeeze  some  lemon  juice 
over,  and  serve. 


DRINKS    FOR   INVALIDS. 

Invalid's  Eggnog. — Best  French  brandy,  four  ounces; 
cinnamon  water,  four  ounces ;  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  sugar, 
half  an  ounce. 

Rub  the  sugar  and  egg  yolk  together,  then  add  the 
rest. 

Malt  Tea  (nutrient  in  cases  where  the  mouth  is  very 
dry). — Boil  three  ounces  of  malt  in  a  quart  of  water. 

Alkaline  Drink  (good  in  cases  of  inflammation). — 
The  thin  rind  of  a  lemon  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
rock  candy;  enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve  the  sugar; 
half  a  pint  of  Vichy  water,  and  half  a  pint  of  common 
water. 

White  Drink  ^Decoction  Blanche"). — Good  in  cases 
of  inflammation.  Burnt  hartshorn,  powdered,  two  ounces; 
gum  arabic,  an  ounce  and  a  half ;  water,  three  pints. 

Boil  down  to  a  pint,  strain,  and  sugar. 

Barley  Water. — Wash  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley  with 
cold  water,  then  boil  it  for  five  minutes  in  some  fresh 
water,  and  throw  both  waters  away ;  then  pour  on  two 

21 


482  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  down  to  a  quart;  flavor- 
with  thinly  cut  lemon  rind,  and  sugar  to  taste,  but  do  not 
strain  except  at  the  patient's  special  request. 

Bael  Drink  (good  in  dysentery  and  diarrhoea). — The 
liquid  extract  of  unripe  bael  fruit  (liquor  belac),  one  or 
two  tablespoonfuls  to  a  pint  of  water. 

Alum  Whey  (good  in  diarrhoea). — One  quart  of  new 
milk ;  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  alum.  Make  as  rennet 
whey. 

Almond  Drink  (softening  and  nutritive  to  the  lungs). 
— Two  ounces  of  compound  powder  of  almonds  (can  be 
bought  at  any  druggist's)  ;  one  pint  of  water. 

Rub  the  almond  powder  well  into  the  water. 

Claret  Cup  for  Invalids. — Six  drops  of  sweet  spirits 
of  nitre,  put  into  the  jug  first ;  half  a  bottle  of  claret ; 
one  bottle  of  soda  water. 

Slippery -Elm- Bark  Tea. — Break  the  bark  into  bits, 
pour  boiling  water  over  it,  cover,  and  let  it  infuse  until 
cold ;  sweeten  and  ice ;  good  for  summer  disorders,  and 
also  for  bad  colds. 

Milk  Punch  for  Invalids.  —  One  tumbler  of  milk, 
well  sweetened ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  best  brandy,  well 
stirred  in. 

Egg  and  Milk  Punch — Is  made  as  above,  adding  an 
egg  beaten  light  with  the  sugar,  and  stirred  in  before  the 
brandy  is  added. 

Sangaree  or  Porteree. — One  third  wine  or  porter  to 
two  thirds  water ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  grated  nut- 
meg:.    This  is  better  hot  than  cold. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  483 

A  Hailstorm  Julep.— Some  sprigs  of  green  mint  bruised 
in  a  tumbler ;  a  large  teaspoonf ul  of  white  sugar ;  enough 
water  to  fill  the  glass  three  quarters  full. 

Fill  up  with  pounded  ice ;  stir  hard ;  pour  into  a  large 
glass  that  you  may  shake  up  well,  and  add  two  tablespoon- 
f  fuls  of  fine  brandy. 

Apple  Toddy. — Boil  a  large,  juicy  pippin  in  a  quart  of 
water,  and,  when  broken  to  pieces,  strain  off  the  water ; 
while  boiling  hot  add  a  glassful  of  fine  old  whiskey,  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Eau  Sucree. —  Dissolve  three  or  four  lumps  of  loaf 
sugar  in  a  glass  of  water. 

Gum-Arabic  Water. — "Wash  some  gum  arabic,  put  into 
a  tumbler,  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  it  is  dis- 
solved.    Excellent  for  a  tickling  cough. 

Lemonade. —  One  lemon,  juice  and  thin  parings;  one 
ounce  of  rock  candy ;  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Put  the  lemon  paring  into  a  jug  with  the  candy,  squeeze 
in  the  juice,  and  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  cover  closely, 
and  let  it  cool.  Orange  or  pineapple  drink  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way. 

Linseed  Tea  or  Water.  —  Whole  linseed,  one  ounce; 
white  sugar,  one  ounce ;  liquorice  root,  half  an  ounce ; 
lemon  juice,  four  tablespoonfuls. 

Put  the  ingredients  into  a  jug,  pour  over  them  two 
pints  of  boiling  water,  let  them  stand  in  a  hot  place  four 
hours ;  then  strain  and  use.  Do  not  give  this  drink  to 
patients  taking  lead,  iron,  or  copper. 

Toast  Water. — Slices  of  toast  nicely  browned;  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  closely,  and  steep  until  cold ;  strain  and  ice. 


484  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Jelly  Water. — One  large  teaspoonf ul  of  any  tart  fruit- 
jelly  ;  one  goblet  of  ice-water. 
Beat  np  well. 

Flax-seed  Lemonade.  —  Four  tablespoon!' uls  of  whole 
flax-seed;  one  quart  of  boiling  water  poured  on  the  flax- 
seed; the  juice  of  two  lemons;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher  ;  if  too  thick,  put 
in  cold  water  with  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Excellent 
for  colds. 

Irish-Moss  Lemonade  (Iceland  moss  is  equally  good). — 
One  handful  of  Irish  moss,  washed  in  five  waters;  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  poured  on  the  moss,  and  left  until 
cold  ;  two  lemons  peeled  and  sliced,  leaving  out  the  peel ; 
sweeten  well,  and  ice. 

Do  not  strain,  and  if  it  thickens  too  much  add  cold  wa- 
ter.    Grood  for  feverish  colds  and  all  pulmonary  troubles. 

Lemon  Water. — Peel  very  carefully  and  thinly  one  large 
lemon,  put  it  into  a  jug  with  a  lump  of  sugar,  pour  over 
it  one  quart  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  till 
cold,  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  More  lemon  peel  may 
be  used.  It  is  best  to  make  it  overnight,  and  let  it  stand 
until  morning. 

Apple  Water — Is  made  in  the  same  way,  but  more  peel, 
of  course,  is  required.     It  is  best  to  use  the  tart  apples. 

Quince  Water. — Peel  and  cut  up  into  quarters  two  large 
quinces;  pour  over  them  one  quart  and  a  half  of  boiling 
water ;  let  it  stand  all  night,  then  drain,  and  sweeten. 
This  is  very  good  for  colds. 

Caudle. — Take  one  paper  of  Kobinson's  prepared  groats; 
make  it  perfectly  smooth  from  lumps ;  add  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  ground 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  485 

mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  two  large  cupfuls  of  powdered 
sugar;  mix  all  well  together,  and  then  add,  gradually,  wa- 
ter until  it  is  smooth  and  rather  thin  ;  have  half  a  gallon 
of  water  boiling  on  the  fire  with  half  a  pound  of  stoned 
raisins ;  take  out  the  raisins,  and  add  the  groats  ;  when  the 
whole  nearly  boils,  add  three  pints  of  sherry  wine  and  the 
juice  of  five  or  six  lemons ;  boil  all  together,  put  the  rai- 
sins in  a  stone  jar,  and  strain  the  caudle  over  them.  Wine, 
sugar,  or  lemons  may  be  added  at  any  time  before  the  final 
boiling;  stir  constantly  for  fear  of  burning;  serve  hot  in 
small  cups. 

Clove  Tea. — Six  whole  cloves;  one  tumblerful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Cover  closely  and  leave  all  night ;  then  strain 
and  drink. 

Violet  Tea  (^  Tisane  de  Violettes").  (Good  to  induce 
perspiration.) — Half  an  ounce  of  dried  violets  put  into  two 
pints  of  boiling  water ;  let  them  stand  near  the  fire  half  an 
hour;  then  strain  and  use. 

Mint  Tea. — Take  half  an  ounce  of  green  mint  leaves, 
crush,  and  infuse  in  boiling  water;  sweeten,  and,  when 
cold,  strain.  It  is  healing  to  the  stomach  and  bowels. 
Rosemary,  balsam,  and  southernwood  teas  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way. 

Catnip  Tea. — Make  as  above.    Good  for  colds  and  colic. 

Aniseed  Tea. — Make  as  above.  Good  for  colds  and 
colic. 

Fennel  Seeds  Steeped  in  Urandy. — Good  for  colds  and 
colic. 

Tansy-and-Eue  Tea. — Make  in  the  same  way  as  "Mint 
Tea."     Good  for  colds  and  colic. 


486  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Chamomile  and  Gentian  Teas — Are  made  in  the  same 
way  as  "  Mint  Tea,"  and  are  excellent  tonics,  taken  cold 
or  hot. 

Pennyroyal  Tea.  —  Make  in  the  same  way  as  "Mint 
Tea."     Good  to  induce  perspiration. 

Tea  of  Parsley  Boot. — Parsley  root,  scraped  and  steeped 
in  boiling  water,  is  good  for  strangury  and  kindred  affec- 
tions, as  is,  also,  tea  of  dried  pumpkin  seeds. 

Pose  Tea. — Half  an  ounce  of  red  rosebuds  (the  white 
heels  being  taken  off) ;  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  white  wine 
vinegar;  one  ounce  of  white  sugar  candy. 

Pour  over  these  ingredients  two  pints  of  boiling  water ; 
let  them  stand  near  the  fire  for  two  hours,  then  strain. 
Similar  acid  drinks  may  be  made  of  apple  jelly,  guava  jel- 
ly, damson  cheese,  currant  jelly,  or  syrup  of  gooseberries, 
barberries,  etc. 

Sage  Tea. — Half  an  ounce  of  fresh,  green  sage  leaves, 
plucked  from  the  stalks,  and  washed  clean ;  one  ounce  of 
sugar ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  outer  rind  of  finely  pared 
lemon  peel. 

Pour  over  these  ingredients  two  pints  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, let  them  stand  near  the  fire  an  hour,  then  strain; 
when  the  sage  is  dried,  less  than  half  an  ounce  must  be 
used. 

Oatmeal  Tea. — One  handful  of  oatmeal ;  one  gallon  of 
boiling  water. 

Mix  in  a  deep  vessel ;  let  the  oatmeal  subside,  which  it 
does  in  half  an  hour ;  then  pour  off  the  tea.  By  this  proc- 
ess hard  water  is  made  digestible. 

Tea  of  Green  Strawberry  Leaves. — A  good  wash  for  a 
cankered  mouth. 


DIETAKY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  487 

Sage  Tea — Sweetened  with  honey,  and  with  a  small  bit 
of  alum  dissolved  in  it,  is  an  excellent  gargle  for  sore 
throat. 

Cleansing  Wash  for  the  Mouth  before  Food. — One  table- 
spoonful  of  Condy's  solution  in  a  pint  of  tepid  water. 

White  Wine  Whey,  No.  1.  —  One  quart  of  new  milk; 
one  gill  of  sherry. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  it  over  a  clear  fire 
until  it  is  nearly  boiling ;  then  add  the  sherry,  and  sim- 
mer for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  skimming  off  the  curd  as  it 
rises ;  then  add  a  tablespoonf  ul  more  of  sherry,  and  skim 
again  for  a  few  minutes. 

White  Wine  Whey,  No.  2. — One  pint  of  fresh  milk;  two 
wineglassfuls  of  Madeira  wine. 

Put  on  the  milk,  and  when  it  boils  throw  in  the  wine 
and  let  it  come  again  to  a  boil ;  strain  without  stirring  it. 
The  quantity  of  wine  must  be  regulated  by  the  advice  of 
a  physician ;  less  than  one  glassful  of  wine  will  not  turn 
a  pint  of  milk  to  whey.  If  the  wine  whey  must  be  very 
weak,  add  whey  turned  with  rennet  to  dilute  it. 

JRennet  Whey. — One  quart  of  new  milk,  warm  from  the 
cow,  if  possible ;  one  large  tablespoonf  ul  of  rennet. 

Heat  the  milk  (if  it  be  not  warm  from  the  cow)  to  the 
same  temperature,  add  the  rennet,  keep  up  the  heat  a  lit- 
tle higher  until  the  curd  separates,  and  take  it  off  with  a 
spoon. 

Tamarind  Whey. — Boil  two  ounces  of  tamarinds  in  two 
pints  of  milk,  strain,  and  serve.  It  may  be  taken  cold  or 
hot. 

Restorative  Jelly  ("  Boston  Cook-Book  "). — Two  calf 's- 
f eet ;  two  quarts  of  cold  water ;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar ; 


488  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

one  lemon ;  one  inch  of  stick  cinnamon ;  one  and  a  half 
eggs,  whites  and  shells ;  one  cupful  of  port  wine ;  two 
cloves  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  powdered  gum-arabic. 

Scald  the  feet  and  clean  thoroughly ;  split,  break  the 
bones,  and  put  them  into  cold  water;  heat  slowly,  and 
simmer  gently  until  reduced  to  a  pint  and  a  half ;  strain, 
and  when  cold  remove  the  fat ;  acid  the  other  ingredients 
except  the  wine ;  put  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  hot ; 
let  it  boil  five  minutes,  or  until  a  thick  scum  has  formed ; 
set  it  back  on  the  stove,  skim,  and  add  the  wine;  strain 
through  a  fine  napkin  into  a  shallow  dish ;  when  cool  and 
firm  cut  with  a  silver  knife  into  small  squares.  This  is 
good  for  a  very  weak  patient  or  an  old  person. 

Baked  Lemon  or  Orange. — Bake  a  lemon  or  sour  orange 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  when  done,  cut  open, 
take  out  the  inside,  and  eat  with  sugar  or  molasses.  Ex- 
cellent for  hoarseness. 

Portable  Beef  Tea(" Boston  Cook-Book"). — Two  pounds 
of  lean  beef,  cut  fine ;  half  a  box  of  gelatine. . 

Soak  together  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  one  hour,  squeez- 
ing often ;  heat  to  nearly  the  boiling-point ;  strain,  press- 
ing all  the  juice  from  the  meat ;  fill  a  glass  jar  with  the 
juice,  place  the  jar  in  water,  and  heat  until  the  water  out- 
side the  jar  boils ;  seal  while  hot ;  dissolve  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  the  above  preparation  in  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  add  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  serve  at  once.  This 
is  a  convenient  form  of  food  for  travellers. 

Broiled -Beef  Essence. — Broil  half  a  pound  of  round 
steak  one  or  two  minutes,  or  until  the  juice  will  flow ;  cut 
it  into  small  pieces ;  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  heated  bowl 
placed  in  hot  water ;  salt  and  serve. 

Broiled- Beef  Tea. — Proceed  as  above,  but  add  half  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water  to  the  essence. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS.  489 

Laban  ("  Boston  Cook-Book  "). — One  quart  of  new  milk ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  yeast  stirred  into  the  milk. 

Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  to  harden,  which  will  take 
from  three  to  twenty-four  hours ;  when  hard  take  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  mixture  and  stir  it  into  new  milk,  and  then 
set  away  to  harden  again.  This  is  "  Laban."  It  should 
be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream.  If  a  constant  supply  be 
needed,  reserve  one  tablespoonful  each  day  for  the  next 
preparation.     It  is  both  palatable  and  digestible. 

Corn  Tea  and  Bice  Coffee  ("Boston  Cook-Book"). — 
Brown  one  cupful  of  dried  sweet  corn  or  rice ;  pound  or 
grind  it  fine ;  add  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  steep  one 
hour;  strain,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  They  are 
pleasant  and  nourishing  beverages. 

Gluten  Gems  ("  Boston  Cook-Book  "). — Two  cupfuls  of 
gluten  ;  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  bak- 
ing-powder ;  two  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar ;  one  egg ;  two 
cupfuls  of  water  or  milk. 

Bake  in  very  hot  buttered  gem-pans,  in  a  hot  oven,  half 
an  hour. 

Raisin-Milk  Porridge. — Two  dozen  raisins,  quartered ; 
two  cupfuls  of  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  salt  to 
taste. 

Boil  the  raisins  in  a  little  water  twenty  minutes ;  let  the 
water  boil  away  and  add  the  milk ;  when  boiling  add  the 
flour,  rubbed  to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  cold  water ;  boil 
eight  or  ten  minutes ;  season  with  salt,  strain,  and  serve. 

21* 


GENERAL  HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK- 
ROOM. 

An  open  fireplace,  and  in  winter  an  open  fire,  are  neces- 
sary. A  candle,  of  the  best  quality,  is  the  only  safe  light. 
Lamps  of  all  kinds  should  be  avoided. 

The  bed  should  be  placed  so  as  to  command  a  good  view 
of  the  room,  as  it  frequently  makes  a  patient  nervous  to 
hear  any  movement  going  on  behind  the  bed.  Draughts 
must  be  carefully  avoided,  and  neither  sun  nor  candle  al- 
lowed to  shine  full  on  the  bed. 

In  visiting  a  sick  person  stand  or  sit  near  the  foot  of  the 
bed,  so  that  the  patient  need  make  no  effort  to  see  you. 
It  is  distressing  to  invalids  to  have  people  too  close  to 
them,  or  to  have  them  sit  near  the  head  of  the  bed,  so  that 
the  invalid  is  obliged  to  turn  round  and  look  upwards. 
Never  wear  creaking  shoes  or  a  rustling  garment.  Next 
to  perfect,  immaculate  cleanliness,  comes  complete  silence. 

If  it  be  necessary  to  replenish  a  coal  fire,  avoid  noise  by 
putting  the  coal  into  a  paper  bag,  and  putting  bag  and  all 
on  the  fire. 

Never  keep  soiled  clothes  or  food  of  any  kind  in  a  sick- 
room. If  two  beds  are  used,  keep  the  mattress  and 
blankets  of  the  odd  bed  in  another  room,  exposed  to  air 
and  sunlight,  and  make  up  the  bed  freshly  just  before  you 
move  the  patient,  then  carry  away  at  once  the  mattress, 
pillows,  blankets,  etc.,  and  put  them  in  another  room  to 
air;  cover  the  palliasse  or  springs  of  the  empty  bed  with  a 
neat  coverlet  so  that  it  may  present  a  decent  appearance. 
Keep  all  food  well  covered  up  in  an  adjoining  room,  which 
should  be  well  aired. 


GENERAL  HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM.  491 

In  sweeping  a  sick-room  envelop  the  broom  in  a  cotton- 
flannel  bag  wet  with  cold  water ;  it  should  be  put  on  with 
the  nap  side  out.  Always  dust  a  sick-room  with  a  damp 
cloth. 

Never  enter  a  sick-room  when  in  a  violent  perspiration, 
or  with  an  empty  stomach,  as  then  the  system  more  readily 
receives  contagion.  If  obliged  to  sit  up  all  night,  provide 
yourself  with  something  to  eat,  if  only  a  cake  of  choco- 
late. 

TO    KEEP   ICE   IN  A   SICK-ROOM    ("  BOSTON  COOK-BOOK "). 

Tie  a  square  of  coarse  white  flannel  over  a  pitcher,  leav- 
ing a  cup-shaped  depression  in  the  centre,  fill  this  with 
broken  ice,  and  cover  tightly  with  a  thicker  flannel ;  it  will 
keep  well. 

HOT   BANDAGES. 

In  applying  hot  bandages,  dip  the  flannel  in  boiling 
water,  place  it  in  the  centre  of  a  coarse  towel,  and  twist 
and  wring  the  ends  of  the  towel;  or,  place  the  flannels  in  a 
steamer  over  hot  water  until  penetrated  with  the  steam ; 
they  will  then  need  no  wringing. 

CONVENIENCES    IN   A    SICK-ROOM. 

In  severe  sickness  a  glass  tube  is  useful  for  feeding 
drinks  and  gruels,  and  little  white  china  boats  with  spouts 
are  also  good ;  a  wooden  tray,  with  legs  six  or  seven  inches 
high,  to  stand  on  the  bed,  is  useful  for  serving  meals. 

GENERAL     HINTS     AS    TO   DIET    EOR   INVALIDS    (BOSTON    COOK- 
BOOK "). 

Milk  should  enter  largely  into  the  diet  of  children  and 
invalids ;  it  should  be  used  with  discretion,  and  not  drunk 
too  fast ;  a  large  glass  of  milk  swallowed  suddenly  will 
form  in  the  stomach  a  lump  of  dense,  cheesy  curd,  which 
may  even  prove  fatal  to  a  weak  stomach.  Under  the  ac- 
tion of  the  stomach  this  cheesy  mass  will  turn  over  and 


492  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

over  like  a  heavy  weight,  and  as  the  gastric  juice  can  only 
attack  its  surface  it  digests  slowly  ;  but  this  same  milk, 
taken  slowly,  or  with  dry  toast,  light  rolls,  or  soft,  dry 
porridge,  forms  a  porous  lump  through  which  the  gastric 
juice  can  easily  pass,  and  which  breaks  up  every  time  the 
stomach  turns  it  over.  Milk  should  be  very  slightly  salt- 
ed, and  eaten  with  breadstuffs,  or  sipped  by  the  spoonful. 
Cow's  milk  produces  less  heat  than  human  milk;  a  child 
will  grow  thin  upon  it  unless  a  little  sugar  be  added. 
Wheat  flour  has  such  an  excess  of  heat-producing  power 
as  to  fatten  a  child  unduly,  and  should  have  cow's  milk 
added  to  it  to  reduce  its  fattening  power. 

Vanilla  should  never  be  used  as  a  flavoring  for  invalids. 
Pepper,  in  small  quantities,  is  allowable,  but  only  white  or 
cayenne  pepper,  never  black. 

Boiled  onions  are  soothing  to  the  mucous  membrane; 
in  inflammation  of  the  stomach  they  are  healthful  when  a 
piece  of  white  bread  could  not  be  digested.  Broiled  or 
roasted  squab,  venison,  chicken,  mutton,  and  beef,  in  the 
order  given,  are  the  most  easily  assimilated  meats. 

Game,  being  rich  in  phosphates,  is  valuable  for  invalids. 
Broiled  bacon,  dusted  with  cayenne,  is  an  easily  digested 
form  of  fat. 

Tomatoes  are  very  healthy,  and  are  considered  by  many 
physicians  a  remedy  for  dyspepsia  and  indigestion.  Wa- 
tery, green,  or  diseased  potatoes  should  never  be  eaten ; 
young  potatoes  are  indigestible. 

Eggs  for  sick  people  should  be  taken  raw,  boiled  very 
lightly,  or  boiled  very  hard;  when  cooked  in  any  other 
manner  they  are  indigestible. 

Soups  which  have  in  them  cream  or  milk  are  better  for 
invalids  than  those  rich  in  gelatine.  Cream  of  celery  and 
Potage  d  la  Peine  Victoire  are  particularly  good. 

Sfrong  bouillon   is   adapted    to   those    suffering  from 
hemorrhoids,  or  any  disease  of  the  rectum,  as  there  is  no 
solid  waste. 
Diabetics  should  abstain  from  sugar,  and  anything  which 


GENERAL  HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM.  493 

is  converted  into  sugar  in  digestion,  such  as  all  starchy 
foods  and  vegetables. 

The  corpulent  should  abstain  from  fat,  sugar,  and  starchy 
foods. 

The  bilious  and  gouty  should  eat  sparingly  of  brown 
meats,  cheese,  eggs,  beans,  pease,  or  food  which  is  rich  in 
albuminoids. 

The  constipated  should  avoid  fried  or  greasy  foods,  hot 
bread,  rich  cake,  veal,  pork,  coarse  oatmeal,  etc. 

Those  people  who  have  consumptive  tendencies  should 
eat  wholesome,  easily  digested  and  assimilated  food,  with 
plenty  of  fat,  i.  <?.,  cream,  sweet  butter,  fat  of  roast  or 
boiled  meat,  salads,  cornmeal,  oatmeal,  etc. 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDI- 
CAL RECEIPTS. 

HOUSEHOLD   RECEIPTS. 

To  Preserve  Eggs. — Slake  a  lump  of  lime,  making  the 
mixture  as  thick  as  ordinary  whitewash  ;  let  it  stand  three 
weeks ;  pack  the  eggs  carefully  in  a  jar,  or  any  vessel  that 
will  hold  the  liquid. 

To  Preserve  Milk. — Bottle  the  milk  tightly,  using  wine 
corks;  place  them  in  a  kettie  of  cold  water;  heat  the 
water  gradually  until  it  reaches  boiling-point;  then  re- 
move the  kettle  from  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  cool;  then 
pack  the  bottles  for  future  use ;  milk  prepared  in  this 
manner  will  keep  for  six  months. 

To  Preserve  Lime  Juice. — Strain  the  juice,  and  to  every 
pint  add  one  pound  of  double-refined  sugar ;  let  it  stand 
in  the  sun ;  as  the  scum  rises,  skim  it  off,  and  when  it  is 
quite  free  from  scum  put  into  pint  bottles  and  cork  it 
well;  it  will  keep  for  months. 

To  Clean  Wine  Bottles. — Put  some  shot  in  the  bottles, 
fill  them  half  full  of  water,  and  shake  the  shot  about  until 
the  bottle  is  thoroughly  cleaned  ;  the  water  had  better  be 
changed  two  or  three  times  during  the  process  ;  be  very 
careful  not  to  leave  any  shot  in  the  bottles,  as  the  acid  of 
the  wine  acts  on  it  poisonously. 

To  Clean  Brasses. — Grate  Bath  brick  to  a  fine  powder, 
saturate  it  with  alcohol,  and  rub  on  the  brass  with  a  rag, 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  KECEEPTS.     495 

until  it  is  quite  bright  and  clean  ;  finish  polishing  with  a 
chamois  cloth. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. — Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped 
in  clean  salt  and  water ;  wipe  dry  at  once,  or  it  will  turn 
yellow. 

To  Clean  Paint. — Use  a  rather  soft,  flat  brush,  warm 
water,  and  plenty  of  suds ;  wash  off  the  suds  with  a  flannel 
cloth  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Paint  should  always  be  washed  and  dried  quickly. 

To  Remove  Stains  f Tom  Marble. — Make  a  mortar  of 
unslacked  lime  and  very  strong  lye  ;  cover  the  spot  thickly 
with  it,  and  leave  it  on  for  six  weeks ;  wash  it  off  perfect- 
ly clean,  and  rub  hard  with  a  brush  dipped  in  a  lather  of 
soap  and  water ;  polish  with  a  smooth,  hard  brush. 

To  Clean  a  Marble  Floor. — If  not  very  dirty,  the  plan 
adopted  in  Italy  is  the  best.  The  Italians  use  clean,  fresh 
sawdust,  slightly  dampened.  This  cleans  a  marble  floor 
quickly  and  well ;  if  the  floor  be  of  cement,  dark  in  col- 
or, and  varnished  to  imitate  mosaic,  the  Italians  clean  as 
above,  and  polish  with  flannel  cloths,  dipped  in  oil  and 
vinegar. 

Stains  of  Iron  Mould. — Moisten  with  ink,  and,  while 
wet,  rub  in  muriatic  acid,  diluted  with  five  times  its  weight 
of  water. 

Ink  Stains. — If  wet,  wash  in  skim  milk,  then  in  cold 
water,  then  again  in  hot.  For  dry  ink  stains  use  oxalic 
acid,  or  lemon  juice  and  salt. 

Mildew.  —  Equal  parts  of  lemon  juice,  salt,  powdered 
starch,  and  soft  soap  ;  rub  on  thickly,  and  lay  on  the  grass 
in  the  hot  sun  ;  repeat  this  process  two  or  three  times  a  day. 


496  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Stains  of  Acids  and  Alkalies. — Treat  acid  stains  with 
hartshorn  ;  alkaline  with  acids. 

Stains  on  Silk  or  Woollen. — Moisten  with  the  scouring 
spirit,  and  rub  until  the  spot  disappears. 

To  Wash  Black  Goods. — Rip  the  stuff,  and  select  the  best 
for  cleaning;  buy  ftvo,  cents'  worth  of  pulverized  soap  bark, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  little  water  until  dissolved ;  put  the 
black  stuff  in  enough  lukewarm  water  to  cover  it,  turn  in 
the  soap  bark,  rinse  the  stuff  up  and  down  until  it  is  quite 
saturated,  then  rinse  in  clear  lukewarm  water.  The  effect 
upon  bunting  is  remarkable,  cleansing  and  restoring ;  but 
various  black  stuffs  may  be  cleaned  in  this  way. 

To  Clean  Black  Goods. — Two  parts  of  soft  water ;  one 
part  of  alcohol  or  turpentine.  * 

Wash  with  a  well-soaped  sponge  dipped  in  the  mixture ; 
rub  both  sides  of  the  stuff,  stretching  it  on  a  table  ;  sponge 
off  with  clear  hot  water,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side,  and 
while  damp. 

To  Wash  Silk. —  Mix  well  .two  cupfuls  of  cold  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  strained  honey,  one  tablespoonful  of 
soft-soap,  and  one  wineglassful  of  alcohol. 

Shake  up  well,  lay  the  silk  on  a  table ;  sponge  each 
breadth  on  both  sides,  rubbing  well ;  then  shake  about 
well  in  a  tub  of  cold  water ;  flap  dry,  but  do  not  wring  it ; 
hang  by  the  edges  until  fit  to  iron,  and  iron  on  the  wrong 
side  while  damp. 

To  Smooth  Wrinkled  Silk. — Sponge  on  the  right  side 
with  very  weak  gum-arabic  and  water,  and  iron  on  the 
wrong  side. 

To  Wash  Woollens. — Wash  in  clean,  hot  soap  suds,  rinse 
out  in  clear  hot  water,  and  shake,  but  do  not  wring. 


■ 
HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.     497 

To  Wash  Lawn  or  Thin  Muslin. — Two  quarts  of  wheat 
bran  ;  six  quarts  of  water. 

Boil  half  an  hour,  strain,  and  mix  in  the  water  in  which 
the  muslin  is  to  be  washed ;  if  possible,  use  neither  soap 
nor  starch  ;  rinse  lightly  in  clear  water.  This  preparation 
both  cleanses  and  stiffens. 

To  Wash  Doubtful  Calicoes.— One  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
of  lead  ;  one  pailful  of  water. 

Mix,  put  in  the  calico,  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  before 
washing. 

To  Wash  Tidies  made  of  Antique  Lace. — Soak  in  borax 
water,  then  let  them  lie  in  warm  suds,  squeezing  them  in 
your  hands ;  rinse,  but  do  not  blue  them ;  instead  of  iron- 
ing them,  pull  them  in  shape  and  pin  to  a  clean  cloth  on 
your  ironing  -  board ;  let  them  get  quite  dry  before  re- 
moving them. 

To  Wash  Black  Lace. — Half  a  cupful  of  rain  water  ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  borax;  one  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of  wine. 

Squeeze  the  tumbled  rusty  lace  through  this  four  times, 
then  rinse  in  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  in  which  a  black  kid 
glove  has  been  boiled ;  pull  out  the  edges  of  the  lace,  and 
put  under  pressure  for  two  days. 

To  Wash  White  Lace  Edging. — Cover  a  quart  bottle 
with  linen,  stitched  smoothly  to  fit  the  shape ;  begin  at  the 
bottom  and  wind  the  lace  about  it,  basting  fast  at  both 
edges,  even  the  minutest  point,  to  the  linen ;  wash  on  the 
bottle,  soaping  it  well ;  rinse  by  plunging  in  a  pail  of  fair 
water,  and  boil  as  you  would  a  white  handkerchief,  bottle 
and  all ;  set  in  the  sun  to  dry  ;  when  quite  dry,  clip  the 
basting  threads,  and  use  without  ironing. 

To  Renew  Wrinkled  Crape.  —  Stretch  over  a  basin  of 
boiling  water,  holding  it  smooth,  but  not  tight,  over  the 


498  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

top,  until  the  steam  fairly  penetrates  it ;  fold  while  damp, 
and  put  under  pressure. 

To  Restore  the  Pile  of  Velvet. — If  but  slightly  pressed,, 
treat  as  you  would  crape ;  if  badly  crushed,  wet  on  the  wrong 
side,  and  pass  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet  slowly  over  the 
flat  surface  of  a  hot  iron  ;  as  the  steam  rises  to  the  right 
side  it  will  raise  the  pile  with  it ;  dry  without  handling. 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers.  —  Hold  over  a  hot  fire, 
not  hot  enough  to  burn ;  shake  out,  and  heat  again  until 
curled. 

To  Keep  Woollens. — Beat,  brush,  and  sun  for  a  day; 
shake  hard,  fold  neatly,  and  pin  in  papers  which  have  been 
dipped  in  turpentine,  and  then  dried  ;  put  a  lump  of  gum 
camphor  in  each  bundle.  Or,  sew  closely  in  muslin  or  linen 
cloths,  and  pack  in  whiskey  barrels. 

To  Make  Soft  Soap. — Ten  pounds  of  grease;  six  pounds 
of  washing  soda  or  wood  ashes  ;  eight  gallons  of  hot  water. 

Let  it  stand  until  the  grease  is  eaten  up ;  if  too  thick, 
add  more  water;  stir  every  day;  if  wood  ashes  are  used, 
boil  the  mixture. 

Mixture  for  Sponging  Woollen  Goods. — Two  ounces  of 
ammonia  ;  two  ounces  of  castile  soap,  white  •  one  ounce  of 
glycerine  ;  one  ounce  of  ether. 

Cut  the  soap  fine,  dissolve  in  one  pint  of  water  over  the 
fire  ;  then  add  two  quarts  of  water  and  the  other  in- 
gredients ;  mix  and  stir  well,  and  bottle.  This  should  be 
mixed  with  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  teacupful  to  an 
ordinary  pail  of  water ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  wash  soiled 
garments  in- it.  For  removing  spots,  use  a  sponge  or  clean 
flannel  cloth,  and  with  a  dry  cloth  rub  as  dry  as  possible. 
Woollen  goods  may  be  made  to  look  bright  and  fresh  by 
being  sponged  with  this. 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.     499 

To  Prevent  Lampwicks  from  Smoking. — Lainpwicks 
should  be  soaked  in  good  vinegar,  and*  afterwards  thor- 
oughly dried  ;  they  will  burn  perfectly  well,  and  will  never 
smoke  if  this  process  is  adopted. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Carpets. — Take  some  oxgall  from 
the  butcher's,  put  it  in  water,  and  wash  the  carpets  with  it. 

To  Remove  Port  and  Claret  Stains. — Cover  the  stain 
thickly  with  salt,  and,  when  dry,  wet  them  again  with 
sherry  before  washing  in  hot  water. 

To  Clean  a  Furred  Tea-kettle. — Put  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  ammonia  in  water,  and  boil  in  the  tea-kettle.  It  will 
cleanse  it  thoroughly. 

To  Sweeten  Bitter  Yeast. — Wash  a  poker  clean,  and 
dry  it ;  then  heat  it  red-hot,  and  thrust  it  red-hot  into  the 
yeast.     It  will  not  fail  to  sweeten  it. 

To  Restore  Worn  Steel  Pens. — Heat  the  pen  in  gas- 
light, and  dip  instantly  into  cold  water.  It  will  make  it 
as  good  as  new. 

Clothes  Catching  Fire. — Throw  yourself  instantly  on  the 
floor,  and  roll  yourself  in  a  rug  or  blanket,  if  you  have  one. 
Children  should  be  taught  this  as  soon  as  they  are  able  to 
understand. 

To  Escape  from  a  Burning  Place. — If  yon  have  to  pass 
by  flames,  muffle  the  mouth  and  nose  in  wet  bandages  or 
thick  woollen,  and  creep  on  all  fours,  no  matter  how  great 
the  haste,  as  the  cold  air  falls  to  the  floor,  and  one  can 
breathe  there  when  it  is  impossible  elsewhere.  Children 
should  be  early  taught  this  also. 

To  Draw  Out  a  Broken  Needle. — If  no  surgeon  be  at 


500  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

hand,  and  all  other  remedies  fail,  a  broken  needle  may  be 
drawn  out  of  the  flesh  in  which  it  has  embedded  itself  by 
the  action  of  a  strong  magnet,  which  should  be  applied  to 
the  skin. 

Plants  in  a  Room. — A  few  plants  add  rather  to  the 
health  of  a  room  than  otherwise,  as  they  give  out  oxygen 
and  inhale  carbonic  acid  ;  but  many  plants  produce  a  slight 
malaria.  Neither  plants  nor  cut  flowers  should  be  allowed 
to  remain  overnight  in  a  sleeping-room. 

For  Staining  Wooden  Floors. — The  best  plai?i  staining- 
fluid  is  permanganate  of  potash.  It  not  only  stains,  but 
purifies,  being  the  foundation  of  a  powerful  disinfectant. 
Buy  wholesale ;  dissolve  one  and  a  half  ounces  in  a  gallon 
of  boiling  water  (this  will  make  quite  a  dark  stain) ;  stir 
the  mixture  thoroughly  with  a  stick,  and  lay  it  on  with  a 
painter's  flat  brush,  a  large  one,  working  the  way  of  the 
grain  of  the  wood  quickly  and  boldly.  A  small  brush 
should  be  used  for  corners  and  crevices.  When  dry  the 
staining  can  be  repeated  if  it  is  not  dark  enough.  The 
floor  should  then  be  rubbed  over  with  a  woollen  duster, 
and  linseed  oil  should  be  rubbed  on  freely  with  a  piece  of 
flannel,  always  following  the  grain  of  the  wood.  Two  or 
three  layers  of  linseed  oil  should  be  laid  on,  as  this  sets  the 
stain ;  it  is  then  ready  to  be  polished  with  beeswax  and 
turpentine.  To  prepare  this,  cut  up  the  beeswax  into 
small  pieces,  put  it  into  a  pot,  and  pour  sufficient  tur- 
pentine over  it  to  cover  it;  set  the  pot  in  the  oven,  or  on 
the  stove,  until  the  wax  is  thoroughly  melted ;  then  leave 
it  to  get  cold,  when  it  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  po- 
matum ;  rub  on  the  wax,  not  too  much  of  it,  with  a  piece 
of  flannel,  and  then  polish  with  a  polishing-brush.  The 
best  kind  are  the  weighted  ones  with  long  handles,  as  they 
do  not  entail  so  much  stooping ;  but  other  kinds,  not  so 
expensive,  are  easily  to  be  obtained.  This  method  of 
treating  floors  is  quite  the  best  and  most  wholesome  for 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  EECEIPTS.     501 

bedrooms,  which  should  be  stained  uniformly  all  over. 
They  can  be  kept  very  clean  and  bright  by  rubbing  daily 
with  a  duster,  and  by  a  weekly  application  of  beeswax  and 
turpentine.  After  these  floors  are  once  well  polished,  they 
require  but  little  labor — not  more  than  scrubbing  floors  or 
washing  oilcloths. 

To  Restore  Scorched  Linen. — If  linen  has  been  scorched 
in  ironing,  and  the  mark  has  not  gone  through  so  as  to 
damage  the  texture,  it  may  be  removed  by  the  following 
process :  Take  two  onions,  peel,  slice,  and  pound  them  to 
extract  the  juice ;  then  cut  up  half  an  ounce  of  white 
soap  and  two  ounces  of  fuller's-earth ;  mix  with  them  the 
onion  juice  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar ;  boil  this  composition 
well,  then  spread  it;  when  cool  cover  the  scorched  part  of 
the  linen,  and  let  it  dry  on  ;  afterwards  wash  out  the  linen. 

To  Shrink  Flannel. — Dip  the  flannel  into  boiling  wa- 
ter, taking  care  to  saturate  it  thoroughly;  shake,  but  do 
not  wring,  and  at  once  hang  it  up  in  the  sun  to  dry.  It 
will  never  shrink  again. 

Your  Own  Mason. — Small  holes  in  white  walls  can  be 
easily  repaired  by  mixing  equal  parts  of  plaster  of  Paris 
and  white  sand  (scouring  sand)  to  a  paste;  mix  a  small 
quantity  at  a  time,  and  apply  with  a  knife  or  flat  piece  of 
wood.     This  cement  hardens  at  once,  and  is  very  durable. 

To  Extinguish  Kerosene  Flames.  —  If  no  cloth  is  at 
hand,  throw  flour  on  the  flames.  Flour  rapidly  absorbs 
the  fluid,  and  deadens  the  flame. 

To  Prevent  Horses'  Feet  from  Scalding  or  Cracking. — 
Coat  the  hoofs  once  a  week  with  an  ointment  consisting 
of  equal  parts  of  soap  fat,  yellow  wax,  linseed  oil,  Venice 
turpentine,  and  Norway  tar ;  melt  the  wax  separately  be- 
fore mixing.    . 


502  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

To  Preserve  Sheepskins  for  Mats. — Dissolve  one  pound 
of  alum  and  one  pound  of  salt  in  a  gallon  of  water ;  put 
the  skin  in  soon  after  it  is  taken  from  the  sheep,  and  let  it 
soak  twenty-four  hours ;  then  nail  it  on  an  old  door,  skin 
uppermost,  till  quite  dry ;  line  it  with  a  piece  of  old  car- 
pet (after  cutting  it  straight)  to  prevent  the  possibility  of 
its  greasing  the  floor. 

General  Scouring  Spirit. — One  ounce  of  pyroligneous 
ether;  three  drachms  of  the  essence  of  lemon. 

Mix,  moisten  the  grease-spot  in  silk  or  cloth  well  with 
this  mixture,  and  rub  it  until  it  disappears. 

To  Drive  away  Rats. — Chloride  of  lime  is  au  infalli- 
ble preventive,  as  rats  flee  from  its  odor  as  from  a  pesti- 
lence. It  should  be  thrown  down  their  holes,  and  spread 
about  wherever  they  are  likely  to  come.  It  should  be  re- 
newed once  a  fortnight. 

To  Drive  away  Mosquitoes.  —  Some  of  the  Vene- 
tian mosquito  powder  burned  in  the  room  is  very  ef- 
fective. 

Or,  if  the  herb  called  pennyroyal  can  be  obtained,  a 
bunch  of  it  tied  at  the  head  of  the  bed  will  drive  the  mos- 
quitoes away. 

To  Drive  away  any  Insect  which  Infests  Woodwork 
or  Iron. — The  following  receipt  was  given  me  by  a  well- 
known  dealer  in  antique  furniture  in  Florence.  He  told 
me  that  it  never  failed,  and  that  he  had  often  used  it 
on  old  pieces  of  furniture,  which,  to  use  his  own  expres- 
sion, "  walked  away  of  themselves." 

JEqua  Mcestra. — For  every  quart  of  pure  water  one 
ounce  of  potash.  Mix  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved, 
but  do  not  boil  it. 

Smell  of  Paint. — To  get  rid  of  the  smell  of  oil  paint, 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.      503 

put  a  handful  of  hay  into  a  pailful  of  water,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  room  newly  painted. 

To  Render  Awnings  Waterproof. — Plunge  the  awning 
first  into  a  solution  containing  twenty  per  cent,  of  soap, 
and  then  into  another  solution  containing  the  same  per- 
centage of  sulphate  of  copper ;  then  wash,  and  the  opera- 
tion is  accomplished. 

Glue  for  Ready  Use.  —  To  any  quantity  of  glue  use 
common  whiskey  instead  of  water ;  put  both  in  a  bottle, 
cork  tightly,  and  set  away  for  three  or  four  days;  it  will 
then  be  fit  for  use. 

To  Purify  Foul  Water. — Where  a  filter  is  unattainable, 
a  very  little  alum  will  purify  foul  water.  An  ounce  of 
alum  will  purify  a  whole  hogshead  of  foul  water. 

To  Soften  Hard  Water. — Where  soda  is  not  obtainable 
or  advisable,  use  wood  ashes.  It  never  fails  to  soften 
hard  water,  as  it  contains  carbonate  of  potassa,  which, 
uniting  with  the  sulphate  of  lime,  forms  a  substance  which 
falls  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  water  soft. 

Bad  Drinking  Water. — Wherever  the  drinking  water 
is  not  absolutely  beyond  suspicion,  it  should  invariably  be 
boiled  and  filtered  before  using.  This  treatment  will  make 
almost  any  water  safe. 

To  Manage  a  "Bain-marie ." — If  the  bain-marie- (i.  e., 
the  water  in  the  outside  kettle)  does  not  boil  as  quickly  as 
it  ought,  it  is  better  to  fill  the  outside  kettle  with  brine, 
which  always  boils  more  quickly. 


TOILET    RECEIPTS. 

Lotion  for  Freckles. — One  teacupf  ul  of  sour  milk ;  a  lit- 
tle scraped  horseradish. 


504  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Let  it  stand  from  six  to  twelve  hours,  and  wash  the 
parts  affected  twice  a  day. 

Almond  Ball. — Put  into  an  earthen  saucepan,  set  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  one  ounce  of  white  wax,  one  ounce 
of  pure  spermaceti,  and  one  gill  of  oil  of  almonds  well 
stirred  in ;  add  to  this,  when  it  begins  to  grow  cool,  half 
a  drachm  of  essential  oil  of  almonds ;  half  a  drachm  of 
expressed  oil  of  mace,  and  half  a  drachm  of  balsam  of 
Peru  ;  stir  until  smooth  and  perfectly  amalgamated;  then 
pour  into  egg-cups;  turn  out  when  hard.  These  balls 
passed  over  the  clean  and  dry  skin  at  bedtime  greatly 
improve  the  softness  of  the  complexion. 

Glycerine  Balsam. — Half  an  ounce  of  white  wax;  one 
ounce  of  spermaceti ;  one  gill  of  oil  of  almonds. 

Melt  slowly  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  when  melted  and 
stirred  smooth  add  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  glycerine  that 
has  been  already  scented  by  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  bal- 
sam of  Peru,  or  by  sixteen  drops  of  attar  of  roses ;  stir 
constantly  until  cold ;'  then  pour  into  china  jars. 

Gold  Cream,  No.  1. — Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  white 
wax,  and  shred  it  into  a  basin  with  one  ounce  of  almond  oil ; 
place  the  basin  by  the  fire  until  the  wax  is  dissolved  ;  then 
add  very  slowly  one  ounce  of  rose-water,  little  by  little, 
and  during  this  time  beat  smartly  with  a  fork  to  make  the 
water  incorporate,  and  continue  beating  until  it  is  accom- 
plished ;  then  pour  into  jars  for  use. 

Gold  Cream,  No.  2. — Take  one  pound  of  the  best  lard 
and  four  ounees  of  spermaceti. 

Melt  the  two  together,  and  add  one  ounce  of  rose-water, 
beating  as  above  directed. 

Bed  Lip  Salve. — -Take  four  ounces  of  white  wax,  four 
ounces  of  olive-oil,  half  an  ounce  of  spermaceti,  twenty 
drops  of  oil  of  lavender,  and  two  ounces  of  alkanet  root. 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.      505 

Macerate  the  alkanet  for  three  or  four  days  in  the  olive- 
oil  ;  then  strain,  and  melt  in  it  the  wax  and  spermaceti ; 
when  nearly  cold  add  the  oil  of  lavender,  and  stir  it  till 
quite  h'rmly  set. 

Hair  Stimulant. — One  ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine ; 
one  ounce  of  trotter  oil ;  thirty  drops  of  acetic  solution  of 
cantharides. 

To  be  applied  three  times  a  week. 

Hair  Wash  for  Scurf  and  Dandruff. — Put  one  ounce 
of  flowers  of  sulphur  into  one  quart  of  clear,  cold  water; 
agitate  often  for  several  hours ;  then  pour  off  the  liquid 
and  saturate  the  scalp  with  it  every  morning. 

Pomade  Divine. — Take  four  pounds  of  mutton  suet,  one 
pound  of  white  wax,  an  ounce  and.  a  half  each  of  essence 
of  bergamot  and  essence  of  lemon,  and  half  an  ounce  each 
of  oil  of  lavender  and  oil  of  origanum. 

Melt  the  suet  and  the  wax  together,  and,  when  tepid,  stir 
in  the  other  ingredients.  The  origanum  has  considerable 
power  in  stimulating  the  growth  of  the  hair. 

Rosemary  Tea  for  the  Hair. — Bruise  a  branch  of  rose- 
mary, pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it,  and  use  it 
warm  every  morning.     This  will  do  for  several  times. 

A  Wash  for  the  Scalp,  or  for  Roughness  of  Skin. — Take 
one  ounce  of  Belmont  glycerine,  half  a  drachm  of  oil  of 
rosemary,  one  ounce  of  proof  spirits,  half  an  ounce  of 
honey,  and  half  a  pint  of  lavender  water. 

Mix  the  oil  of  rosemary  with  the  honey  and  spirits,  and 
add  the  lavender  water  gradually,  shaking  up  well ;  then 
put  in  the  glycerine  and  cork. 

Pomade  Angelique. — Mix  fresh  beef  marrow  and  care- 
fully prepared  neat's-foot  or  trotter's  oil  in  equal  propor- 

22 


506  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

tions;  melt  in  a  water  bath,  strain  (through  coarse  lace) 
and  decant,  leaving  the  dregs  behind;  after  which,  when 
nearly  cool,  add  a  few  drops  of  attar  of  roses,  and  stir  un- 
til the  whole  is  set. 

Hungary  Water. — To  one  pint  of  proof  spirits  of  wine 
put  an  ounce  of  oil  of  rosemary  and  two  drachms  of  es- 
sence of  ambergris;  shake  the  bottle  well  several  times, 
then  let  the  cork  remain  out  twenty-four  hours ;  after  a 
month,  during  which  time  shake  it  daily,  put  the  water 
into  small  bottles. 

Honey  Water. — Take  a  pint  of  proof  spirit,  as  above,  and 
three  drachms  of  essence  of  ambergris. 
Shake  them  well  daily. 

Lavender  Water. — Take  a  pint  of  proof  spirit,  as  above, 
one  ounce  of  essential  oil  of  lavender,  and  two  drachms  of 
essence  of  ambergris. 

Put  all  into  a  quart  bottle  and  shake  it  extremely  well. 

Cologne  Water.  —  Two  drachms  of  essence  of  citron; 
two  drachms  of  essence  of  bergamot ;  one  drachm  of  es- 
sence of  cedrat ;  half  a  drachm  of  essence  of  lavender ;  ten 
drops  of  essence  of  orange  flowers ;  ten  drops  of  tincture 
of  ambergris ;  half  a  drachm  of  tincture  of  musk ;  three 
drachms  of  tincture  of  benjamin  ;  two  drops  of  attar  of 
roses  ;  two  pints  of  proof  spirits. 

Mix  and  filter. 

Aromatic  Vinegar. — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  camphor, 
two  drachms  of  oil  of  cloves,  and  eight  ounces  of  rectified 
spirits  of  wine;  then  add  two  pints  and  a  half  of  strong 
distilled  vinegar. 

Thieved  Vinegar. — One  ounce  of  dried  rosemary  tops ; 
one  ounce  of  dried  sage  leaves ;  half  an  ounce  of  dried 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  KECEIPTS.      507 

lavender  flowers ;  fifteen  grains  of  cloves ;  one  quart  of 
distilled  vinegar. 

Leave  for  seven  days,  then  press  and  filter. 


Old-fashioned  Scent  Jar. — Gather  rose  leaves  on  a  very 
fine  day,  and,  if  you  have  them,  damask  roses ;  lay  them 
in  a  large  earthenware  jar,  and  throw  in  a  little  common 
salt  to  every  layer  of  roses ;  then  two  handfuls  each 
of  rosemary  leaves,  lavender  flowers,  and  knotted  marjo- 
ram;  add  a  few  bay  leaves;  put  in,  also,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  bag  salt,  pounded,  one  ounce  of  orris  root,  sliced, 
one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  of  gum 
benjamin,  and  storax,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  angeli- 
ca root,  sliced ;  when  the  ingredients  are  mixed,  cover  the 
jar  close  and  let  it  stand  for  a  week.  The  scent  is  deli- 
cious. 


MEDICAL    KECEIPTS. 

Antidotes  to  Poison. — For  any  poison  give  instantly 
either  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  in  a  tumbler  of  warm 
water,  or  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  alum  in 
the  same  way;  use  until  free  vomiting  is  excited. 

Arsenic. — Give  large  quantities  of  milk,  and  raw  eggs, 
lime  water,  or  flour  and  water;  then  castor  oil. 

Antimony. — Plenty  of  strong  tea,  and  keep  up  the 
strength. 

Acids  (except  prussic  acid). — One  ounce  of  calcined 
magnesia  to  one  pint  of  water ;  give  a  wineglassful  every 
two  or  three  minutes ;  if  no  magnesia  is  at  hand,  give 
soap  and  water ;  give  plenty  of  warm  water  to  drink. 

Copper,  or  Chloride  of  Zinc,  or  Tin. — Large  quanti- 
ties of  milk  and  white  of  eggs;  afterwards,  strong  tea; 
do  not  give  vinegar. 


508  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Lead. — One  pint  of  water;  two  ounces  of  Epsom  salts. 
Mix,  and  give  a  wineglassful  every  ten  minutes,  until  it 
operates  freely. 

Iodine. — Large  quantities  of  starch  and  water. 

Green  Vitriol. — Give  an  emetic;  afterwards  magnesia 
and  water. 

Lunar  Caustic. — One  large  teaspoonf  ul  of  common  salt 
in  a  glassful  of  water,  and  repeat  in  ten  minutes ;  then  a 
dose  of  castor  oil,  and  barley  water  to  drink. 

Mercury. — The  white  of  an  egg  in  a  little  water,  three 
times  at  intervals  of  five  minutes;  then  large  quantities 
of  milk,  or  flour  and  water ;  then  linseed  tea. 

Nitre. — Plenty  of  flour  and  water ;  then  olive-oil. 

Phosphorus.  —  An  emetic;  then  large  quantities  of 
warm  water,  with  magnesia,  or  flour  stirred  in ;  no  oil  or 
fat  of  any  description. 

Poisonous  Fish. — An  emetic ;  then  a  full  dose  of  castor 
oil,  with  some  warm  spice;,  a  mustard  plaster  on  the  pit 
of.  the  stomach. 

Poisonous  Plants,  Mushrooms,  etc. — An  emetic ;  when 
the  stomach  is  emptied  give  a  good  dose  of  castor  oil; 
stimulants,  if  the  patient  be  faint. 

Laudanum. — Empty  the  stomach  by  an  emetic ;  for  an 
adult  give  fifteen  grains  of  sulphate  of  zinc  in  a  little 
water;  to  a  young  person  half  the  quantity;  to  an  infant, 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  syrup  of  ipecac  ;  if  no  drugs  are  at  hand, 
use  mustard  and  warm  water,  or  salt  and  water,  and  tickle 
the  top  of  the  throat;  after  vomiting,  give  plenty  of  very 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.     509 

strong  coffee  ;  put  a  mustard  plaster  round  the  calf  of  each 
leg,  and,  if  faint  and  cold,  give  spirits  and  water;  remem- 
ber to  keep  the  patient  awake,  at  all  hazards ;  after  an 
overdose  of  laudanum,  sleep  is  death. 

To  Stop  the  Flow  of  Blood. — Bathe  the  cut  with 
ordinary  red  wine;  then  cover  the  wound  with  either 
whiting,  pipe-clay,  or  cobwebs  and  brown  sugar ;  if  you 
have  none  of  these,  apply  the  fine  dust  of  tea,  or,  if  all  are 
wanting,  a  handful  of  earth  held  tightly  to  the  wound 
until  help  can  be  obtained ;  if  the  cut  is  deep,  it  is  wise 
not  only  to  bandage  it  tightly,  but  to  tie  another  bandage 
above,  not  Moio,  the  wound. 

To  Treat  Stings.  — Extract  the  sting ;  then  apply  at 
once  a  little  bluing,  slightly  moistened  with  water  ;  if 
the  inflammation  is  great,  poultice. 

Bite  of  a  Snake. — Tie  a  string  tightly  above  the  wound  ; 
wash,  and  suck  it ;  then  burn  the  wound  to  the  very  bot- 
tom with  lunar  caustic,  or  iron  heated  to  a  white  heat ; 
stimulants,  preferably  whiskey,  must  be  given  in  large 
quantities. 

Sunstroke. — Bind  the  head  with  wet  cloths  ;  wet  another 
cloth,  fold  into  a  small  square,  cover  thickly  with  salt,  and 
apply  to  the  back  of  the  neck ;  apply  dry  salt  behind  the 
ears,  and  mustard  plasters  to  the  calves  of  the  legs  and 
soles  of  the  feet.  The  salt  is  an  Arabian  remedy,  and  is 
very  effective. 

Asthma. — Soak  blotting-paper  in  strong  saltpetre  water, 
dry,  and  burn  at  night  in  the  patient's  bedroom. 

Croup. — Give  a  teaspoonful  of  ipecacuanha  wine  every 
few  minutes  until  free  vomiting  is  excited. 


510  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Powerful  Rubefacient  (good  with  friction  for  rheuma- 
tism, sprains,  etc.). — One  ounce  of  yellow  bar  soap,  one 
ounce  of  boiling  water,  and  three  ounces  of  hot  olive-oil, 
dissolved  together ;  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  dissolved 
in  the  olive -oil;  when  the  above  ingredients  are  well 
amalgamated,  add  one  quarter  ounce  of  oil  of  origanum  ; 
half  an  ounce  of  spirits  of  ammonia;  thrice  the  quantity 
of  spirits  of  wine.  Stir  until  nearly  cold,  then  keep  well 
corked  in  wide  jars. 

Camphorated  Oil. — Best  oil  of  Lucca;  gum  camphor. 

Pound  some  gum  camphor,  and  fill  a  wide-necked  pint 
bottle  one  third  full ;  fill  up  with  olive-oil,  and  set  away 
until  the  camphor  is  absorbed.  Excellent  lotion  for  sore 
chest,  sore  throat,  aching  limbs,  etc. 

Lotion  for  Burns. — One  pint  of  linseed  oil;  one  pint 
of  lime  water.     Mix  and  shake  well. 

Lotion  for  Scalds.-t — Equal  parts  of  prepared  lard  and 
spermaceti  cerate  ;  blend  for  an  ointment.  This  ointment 
is  equally  good  for  burns. 

For  Cold. — There  is  no  remedy  so  good  as  to  go  to  bed 
and  stay  there,  drinking  nothing,  not  even  water,  for 
twenty-four  hours,  and  eating  as  little  as  possible.  Or,  go 
to  bed;  put  your  feet  in  hot  mustard  and  water;  put  a 
bran  or  oatmeal  poultice  on  the  chest ;  take  ten  grains  of 
Dover's  powder,  and  an  hour  afterwards  a  pint  of  hot 
gruel ;  in  the  morning  rub  the  body  all  over  with  a  coarse 
towel,  and  take  a  dose  of  aperient  medicine. 

Violet,  pennyroyal,  or  boneset  tea  are  excellent  to  pro- 
mote perspiration  in  case  of  sudden  chill. 

Or,  take  white  wine  whey.  One  pint  of  milk ;  two 
wineglassfuls  of  white  wine ;  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar. 
Simmer  gently;  then  strain,  sweeten,  and  spice;  give 
hot. 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.     511 

Cholagogue  (old  and  tried  remedy  for  chills  and  fever). 
— Sulphate  of  quinine,  twelve  grains ;  sulphate  of  copper 
in  powder,  two  grains;  opium  in  powder,  two  grains; 
gum-arabic,  in  powder,  a  sufficient  quantity. 

Make  into  a  mass,  with  a  few  drops  of  water,  and  divide 
the  mass  into  twenty-four  pills.  The  dose  is  two  pills, 
taken  on  the  day  after  the  chill,  morning,  noon,  and  night 
before  each  meal ;  if  the  chill  returns  on  the  seventh, 
fourteenth,  or  twenty-first  day,  take  the  dose  after  three 
days  ;  if  they  return  the  first  week,  the  pills  can  be  taken  ; 
but  the  chills  will  not  be  likely  to  show  themselves  again. 

Liniment  for  Chilblains^ o.  1. — Spirits  of  turpentine, 
three  drachms ;  camphorated  oil,  nine  drachms. 

Mix  for  a  liniment.  For  an  adult  four  drachms  of  the 
former,  and  eight  of  the  latter  may  be  used.  If  the  child 
be  young,  or  if  the  skin  be  tender,  the  camphorated  oil 
may  be  used  without  the  turpentine. 

Liniment  for  Chilblains,  No.  2. — Spirits  of  turpentine, 
white  wine,  contents  of  an  egg  in  equal  proportions;  bot- 
tle, and  shake  until  thoroughly  amalgamated. 

For  Broken  Chilblains. — Spread  a  little  spermaceti  ce- 
rate on  lint  or  old  linen,  and  apply  morning  and  night 
to  the  part  affected. 

For  Chapped  Shin.  —  Keep  a  muslin  bag  filled  with 
bran  constantly  soaking  in  the  water  which  you  use  for 
your  ablutions;  the  bran  should  be  changed  twice  a  week; 
immediately  after  bathing  rub  the  chapped  skin  with  deer 
suet,  or  with  glycerine  and  rose-water,  in  the  proportion  of 
three  parts  of  glycerine  to  one  of  rose-water ;  do  this 
while  the  skin  is  still  wet. 

Earache. — There  are  various  ways  of  treating  earache : 
the  most  old  fashioned  are  the  appliance  of  a  roasted 


512  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

onion,  or  a  hot  bag  of  salt  to  the  ear,  and  putting  in  the 
ear  a  small  piece  of  cotton  wet  with  camphorated  oil,  or 
simple  olive-oil  with  a  drop  of  chloroform  ;  better  still,  to 
puff  tobacco  smoke  into  the  ear.  This  remedy  is  very 
soothing  and  effective. 

Or,  take  a  small  wax  taper,  pare  one  end  quite  small, 
envelop  it  in  a  dry  linen  rag,  insert  it  into  the  ear;  then 
light  the  taper.  Odd  as  this  remedy  may  seem,  it  is  won- 
derfully rapid  and  effective ;  it  is  practised  by  all  Italian 
sailors  and  fishermen. 

In  Kentucky,  a  cockroach  is  drowned  in  whiskey,  then 
wrapped  in  hot  cotton,  and  applied  to  the  ear. 

Excellent  Enema  for  Constipation. — Two  tablespoonf  ills 
of  table  salt,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  olive-oil,  and  one  pint 
of  thin  gruel. 

Lotion  for  Bleeding  at  the' Nose. — Powdered  alum,  one 
drachm  ;  water,  half  a  pint. 

This  may  be  snuffed  or  syringed  up  the  nose. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat,  No.  1. — One  wineglassful  of 
barm ;  one  wineglassful  of  vinegar ;  remainder  sage  tea, 
to  make  a  half-pint  bottle  of  gargle. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat,  No.  2. — A  pinch  of  chlorate  of 
potash  in  a  glass  of  water.  Gargle  the  throat  with  it  twice 
a  day,  or  oftener,  if  necessary. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat,  No.  3. — Tar  water  is  a  very 
good  gargle  for  sore  throat ;  it  is  to  be  used  twice  a  day. 

Whooping  Cough.  —  One  ounce  of  powdered  alum ; 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  dissolve  in  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  and  bottle. 

For  a  child  one  year  old  a  teaspoonf  ul  three  times  a  day 
on  an  empty  stomach.     For  a  child  two  years  old  two  tea- 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.     513 

spoonfuls  for  a  dose.  For  a  child  five  years  old  a  table- 
spoonful.  The  state  of  the  bowels  must  be  attended  to, 
and  the  doses  repeated  accordingly.  No  other  medicine 
to  be  taken,  except  an  emetic,  at  first,  if  desirable.  Except 
in  the  case  of  an  infant,  a  milk  diet  to  be  avoided. 

For  Worms,  No.  1. — One  ounce  of  quassia  wood  ;  one 
quart  of  boiling  water. 

Infuse,  strain,  and  bottle ;  give  a  tablespoonful  three 
times  a  day  .to  a  child  four  years  old ;  the  quantity  may 
be  increased  or  diminished  in  proportion  to  the  age  of  the 
child. 

For  Worms,  No.  2. — Half  an  ounce  of  pink  root ;  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  senna  ;  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  fennel ; 
one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

One  tablespoonful  three  times  a  day  to  a  child  four 
years  old. 

Injection  for  Pin  Worms,  No.  1.  —  Two  ounces  of 
quassia  wood ,  one  quart  of  boiling  water.- 

Injection  for  Pin  Worms,  No.  2. — Lump  of  lime  the 
size  of  an  egg ;  one  quart  of  water. 

External  Applications. 

Hot  Salt.  —  Put  a  pint  of  powdered  salt  (the  coarse 
cooking  salt  is  the  best  for  this  purpose)  into  the  frying- 
pan,  or  into  the  oven  ;  when  the  salt  is  very  hot  pour 
instantly  into  a  flannel  bag,  and  when  suffering  with  pain 
apply  to  the  stomach. 

Hot  Flannel,  Wet. — Take  a  yard  of  flannel,  fold  it  in 
three  widths;  then  dip  it  in  very  hot  water;  wring  it 
tolerably  dry,  and  apply  it  evenly  and  neatly  round  and 
round  the  bowels ;  over  this  put  a  flannel  bandage  four 
yards  long,  and  four  inches  wide. 

22* 


-514  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Cold-Water  Bandage. — Take  a  yard  of  flannel,  fold  it  in 
three  widths  ;  then  dip  it  in  cold  water ;  wring  it  tolerably 
dry  ;  apply  evenly  and  neatly  round  the  bowels ;  over  this 
put  an  oiled  silk  bandage,  sufficiently  long  and  wide  to 
completely  swathe  the  bowels,  and  over  that  again  put 
the  double  flannel  bandage  as  above. 

Alcohol  Bandage  for  Sore  Throat.  —  Take  a  strip  of 
flannel  sufficiently  long  to  go  three  times  round  the  throat ; 
heat  it,  dip  it  in  alcohol,  and,  when  thoroughly  soaked, 
fold  it,  and  apply  it  to  the  throat;  put  over  this  a  strip 
of  oiled  silk,  and  over  that  tie  an  old  silk  or  linen  hand- 
kerchief ;  this  is  a  safe,  easy,  and  soothing  remedy  for 
a  sore  throat.  The  bandage  should  be  moistened  from 
time  to  time  with  alcohol  as  it  dries. 

Bed-Pepper  Bandage. — Prepare  as  above,  but  dust  the 
bandage  lightly  with  red  pepper  before  applying  it  to  the 
throat;  it  will  prove  an  admirable  counter-irritant. 

Barm- and -Oatmeal  Poultice  for  Sore  Throat. —  Put 
half  a  teacupful  of  barm  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  take  it  off  the  fire, 
and  stir  oatmeal  into  it  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  a 
soft  poultice ;  then  place  it  on  a  rag,  and  apply  it  to  the 
throat;  carefully  fasten  it  on  with  a  bandage,  two  or  three 
turns  of  the  bandage  going  round, the  throat,  and  two  or 
three  over  the  crown  of  the  head,  so  as  to  apply  the  poul- 
tice where  it  is  wanted,  that  is  to  say,  over  the  tonsils ;  tack 
the  bandage,  do  not  pin  it.  In  scarlet  fever  the  poultice 
should  be  changed  three  times  a  day. 

Bread  -  and  -  Milk  Poultice  (Dr.  Abernethy). —  Scald  a 
basin,  for  you  can  never  make  a  good  poultice  unless  you 
have  perfectly  boiling  water ;  then,  having  put  in  some 
boiling  water,  throw  in  some  coarsely  crumbled  bread,  and 
cover  it  with  a  plate;  when  the  bread  has  soaked  up  as 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.      515 

much  water  as  it  will  hold,  drain  off  the  remaining  wa- 
ter, and  there  will  be  left  a  light  pulp ;  spread  it  a  third 
of  an  inch  thick  on  folded  linen,  and  apply  when  of  the 
temperature  of  a  warm  bath  ;  it  may  be  said  that  this 
poultice  will  be  very  inconvenient  if  there  is  no  lard  in  it, 
for  it  will  soon  get  dry ;  but  this  is  the  very  thing  you 
want,  and  it  can  be  easily  moistened  by  dropping  warm 
water  on  it,  while  a  greasy  poultice  will  be  moist,  but  not 
wet. 

Bran  Poultice.  —  Stir  bran  into  a  vessel  containing 
either  a  pint  or  a  quart  (according  to  the  size  of  the  poul- 
tice required)  of  boiling  water,  until  it  be  of  the  consist- 
ency of  a  soft  poultice ;  then  put  it  into  a  flannel  bag, 
and  apply  it  to  the  part  affected  ;  when  cool,  dip  it  from 
time  to  time  in  hot  water. 

Linseed  Poultice. — Stir  linseed  into  a  vessel  containing 
either  a  pint  or  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  continue 
stirring  steadily,  but  slowly,  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  then 
take  the  vessel  instantly  from  the  fire ;  spread  the  poul- 
tice half  an  inch  thick  on  folded  linen,  and  apply  when 
the  temperature  is  of  blood  heat;  this  is  an  excellent  poul- 
tice. In  cases  of  inflammation  of  the  bowels  it  may  be 
improved  by  the  addition  of  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  mustard 
powder  and  a  tablespoonful  of  olive-oil ;  the  latter  in- 
gredient prevents  it  from  drying  too  soon. 

Flaxseed  Poultice  —  Is  made  as  above,  omitting  the 
mustard  and  olive-oil. 

Yeast  Poultice  (Dr.  Abernethy).— One  pound  of  flour ; 
one  ounce  of  yeast. 

Mix  with  very  hot  water;  keep  stirring  until  beaten 
together,  and  spread  on  soft  linen  or  cotton. 

Linseed-Meal  Poultice.— Scald  the  basin  in  which  you 


516  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

make  the  poultice,  and  then  throw  in  a  little  finely  ground 
linseed ;  pour  a  little  hot  water  on  it,  and  stir  carefully 
until  the  mixture  is  quite  smooth ;  proceed  in  this  way 
until  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity,  then  spread  the  poul- 
tice on  a  piece  of  soft  linen ;  it  should  be  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  so  wide  that  it  will  cover  the  inflamed 
part;  put  a  bit  of  hog's  lard  in  the  centre  of  it,  and  when 
it  begins  to  melt  draw  the  edge  of  the  knife  over,  and 
grease  the  surface  of  the  poultice ;  when  made  in  this 
way  it  is  smooth  and  soft. 

Alum  Poultice. — Beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with 
one  drachm  of  alum  ;  afterwards  drain  it  off  from  the  un- 
mixed portion  of  alum  ;  put  it  between  muslin,  and  apply 
it  to  sore  eyes. 

Hemlock  Poultice. — Two  drachms  of  dried  hemlock ; 
two  pints  of  water  boiled  down  to  one ;  add  sufficient  lin- 
seed meal  to  make  it  of  a  proper  consistency.  Excellent 
for  cancerous  and  scrofulous  ulcers,  and  malignant  sores. 

Mustard  Poultice. — Equal  parts  of  flour  of  mustard 
and  wheaten  flour  mixed  with  warm,  not  boiling,  water. 

Mutton -Suet  Poultice.  —  Equal  parts  of  rolled  bread 
crumbs  and  finely  chopped  mutton  suet. 

Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  and  keep 
stirring  over  the  fire  until  quite  smooth ;  this  is  a  very 
good  soft  poultice. 


BOTTLED   SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VIN- 
EGARS, AND    ESSENCES. 

Curry  Powder,  No.  1. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered ginger  ;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  fresh  turmeric  ;  three 
or  four  cloves  ;  a  blade  of  mace ;  two  or  three  cardamom 
seeds;  some  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 
This  is  enough  for  a  pair  of  chickens  or  a  breast  of  mut- 
ton. Add  two  onions  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour ; 
pound  all  well  in  a  mortar,  stir  into  the  gravy,  and  stew 
with  the  meat. 

Curry  Powder,  No.  2.  —  Twelve  ounces  of  coriander 
seed;  six  ounces  of  black  pepper;  one  ounce  and  a  half 
of  cummin  seed ;  three  ounces  of  fenugreek ;  six  ounces 
of  pale  turmeric. 

Found  these  ingredients  very  fine,  and  dry  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  stirring  them  often ;  when  cold,  put  into  a 
dry  jar,  and  cork  it  lightly. 

Mushroom  Powder.  —  Take  large  mushrooms  ;  peel 
them,  and  take  out  the  gills ;  dry  them  in  an  oven  on  tins, 
and,  when  dry,  pound  in  a  mortar. 

India  Sauce  for  Chops,  No.  1. — One  ounce  of  black 
pepper,  pounded  fine ;  half  an  ounce  of  allspice ;  one 
ounce  of  salt ;  half  an  ounce  of  grated  horseradish ;  half 
an  ounce  of  shallots,  peeled  and  quartered. 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  jar,  pour  over  them  a  pint 
of  either  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  steep  for  a  fort- 
night, then  strain  and  bottle.     A  teaspoonful  of  this  add- 


518  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

ed  to  thick  melted  butter,  or  strong  stock,  makes  a  most 
acceptable  sauce. 

India  Sauce,  'No.  2. — Two  wineglassfuls  of  port  wine; 
two  wineglassfuls  of  walnut  pickle  ;  four  wineglassfuls  of 
mushroom  catsup;  half  a  dozen  anchovies,  boned,  skinned, 
and  pounded  fine  ;  half  a  dozen  shallots,  sliced  and  pound- 
ed; one  tablespoonful  of  soy ;  half  a  drachm  of  cayenne 
pepper ;  one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar. 

Let  all  simmer  together  gently  for  ten  minutes;  then 
strain,  and,  when  cold,  bottle,  cork,  and  seal. 

Table  Sauce. — A  bunch  of  tarragon.  Put  the  tarragon 
in  an  earthen  bowl ;  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  scalding-hot 
vinegar ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day  ;  then 
strain,  and  cork  it  tightly. 

Caramel  for  Sauces. — Take  some  fine  dry  sugar  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  without  a  drop  of  water ;  put  it  on 
the  fire  and  stir  continually  until  it  has  assumed  a  fine 
brown  color;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  pour  on 
enough  water  to  liquefy  it ;  put  the  caramel  thus  prepared 
into  a  porcelain  jar,  which  should  be  tightly  closed  ;  it  can 
be  used  to  color  any  brown  sauce  or  soup. 

Caramel  with  Bordeaux  Wine  for  Sauces  and  Soups. — 
Prepare  some  sugar  as  above,  and,  before  putting  it  on 
the  fire,  put  in  another  stewpan  a  bottle  of  Bordeaux  wine 
with  the  peel  of  a  lemon  ;  the  Bordeaux  wTine  should  heat 
a  bain-marie  while  the  sugar  is  browning;  when  the  sugar 
is  browned  pour  over  it  the  wine  instead  of  water ;  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  melted;  then  strain  and  bottle;  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  this  is  an  addition  to  any  soup. 

Tincture  of  Cochineal  (for  coloring). — Cochineal,  ten 
grains ;  proof  spirit,  one  ounce. 

Mix  in  a  glass  bottle,  and  steep ;  the  cochineal  takes  a 


BOTTLED  SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VINEGAKS,  ETC.        519 

long  time  to  dissolve,  and  the  bottle  must  be  frequently 
shaken. 

Tincture  of  Celery  (for  flavoring). — Half  an  ounce  of 
bruised  celery  seeds  ;  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine. 

Put  it  into  a  bottle,  cork,  and  let  it  stand  near  the  lire 
for  three  or  four  days ;  a  few  drops  will  greatly  improve 
broth  or  soup.  The  seed,  in  a  muslin  bag,  may  be  boiled 
in  soup. 

Walnut  Catsup. — Choose  young,  tender  walnuts,  prick 
with  a  needle  in  several  places,  and  lay  in  a  jar,  with  a 
handful  of  salt  to  every  twenty-five,  and  water  enough  to 
cover  them  ;  break  them  with  a  billet  of  wood,  and  let 
them  lie  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight,  stirring  twice  a  day  ; 
drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  and  cover  the  shells 
with  boiling  vinegar  to  extract  the  juice;  then  crush  to  a 
pulp,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  into  the  saucepan ; 
allow  for  every  quart  of  juice  one  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
one  ounce  of  ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an 
ounce  of  nutmeg,  one  tiny  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  one  tiny 
pinch  of  burned  sugar,  all  grated  fine ;  half  a  shallot, 
chopped  fine;  one  coffeespoonful  of  celery  seed  tied  in  a  bag. 

Boil  all  together  for  an  hour  if  there  be  a  gallon  of 
the  mixture ;  bottle  when  cold,  stirring  up  from  the  bot- 
tom before  filling  each  bottle. 

.Butternut  Catsup — Is  made  in  precisely  the  same  way. 

Lemon  Catsup.  —  Twelve  large,  fresh  lemons ;  four 
tablespoonf  uls  of  white  mustard  seed ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  turmeric  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  white  pepper;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves ;  one  teaspoonful  of  mace ;  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  cayenne ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish ;  one  shallot, 
minced  fine ;  juice  of  the  lemons ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
fine  salt. 


520  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Grind  the  spices,  grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons,  and  put 
all  together,  adding  the  horseradish  ;  strew  the  salt  over 
all ;  pour  over  the  lemon  juice,  and  let  it  stand ;  boil  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  half  an  hour  ;  pour  into  a  stone  jar,  cover 
closely,  and  let  it  stand  fourteen  days,  stirring  daily  ;  then 
strain,  bottle,  and  seal. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Take  full-grown  cucumbers  and  a 
third  part  of  their  weight  of  onions  ;  pare  and  slice  them  ; 
salt  them  well,  and,  in  twenty-four  hours,  squeeze  and 
strain  them ;  to  a  quart  of  juice  add  a  quart  of  white 
wine,  and  to  every  two  quarts  of  liquor  add  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  anchovies,  white  pepper,  mace,  a  stick  of 
horseradish,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Boil  all  together  until  the  anchovies  are  dissolved ;  then 
strain,  and  cover  both  spice  and  liquid  until  both  are  cold, 
when  the  spice  should  again  be  put  into  the  catsup  and 
bottled ;  it  will  keep  for  years';  a  small  quantity  will  flavor 
all  white  dishes  without  injuring  the  color. 

Tomato  Catsup. — One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  one  ounce 
of  salt;  one  ounce  of  mace;  one  tablespoonful  of  black 
pepper;  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne;  one  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  powdered ;  seven  tablespoonf  uls  of  ground  mus- 
tard ;  one  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed,  tied  in  a  thin  mus- 
lin bag. 

Cut  slits  in  the  tomatoes,  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
and  boil  until  the  juice  is  all  extracted  and  the  pulp  dis- 
solved ;  strain  and  press  through  a  colander,  then  through 
a  hair  sieve ;  return  to  the  fire,  add  the  seasoning,  and  boil 
at  least  five  hours,  stirring  constantly  for  the  last  hour,  and 
frequently  during  the  five  hours ;  let  it  stand  twelve  hours 
in  a  stone  jar  on  the  cellar  floor ;  when  cold  add  a  pint  of 
strong  vinegar ;  take  out  the  bag  of  celery  seed,  and  bot- 
tle, sealing  the  corks ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Oyster  Catsup. — One  quart  of  oysters ;  one  tablespoon- 


BOTTLED  SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VINEGARS,  ETC.        521 

ful  of  salt;  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  mace;  one  teacnpfnl  of  cider  or  wine  vinegar; 
one  teacupful  of  sherry. 

Chop  the  oysters  and  boil  in  their  own  liquor  with  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar,  skimming  the  scum  as  it  rises;  boil 
three  minutes ;  strain  through  a  hair  cloth  ;  return  the  liq- 
uor to  the  fire;  add  the  wine,  pepper,  salt,  and  mace ;  boil 
three  minutes,  and  when  cold  bottle  for  use,  sealing  the 
corks. 

Mushroom  Catsup. — Two  quarts  of  mushrooms ;  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  salt. 

Lay  in  an  earthenware  pan  alternate  layers  of  mush- 
rooms and  salt;  let  them  lie  six  hours;  then  break  into 
bits ;  set  in  a  cool  place  for  three  days,  stirring  thoroughly 
every  morning ;  measure  the  juice  when  you  have  strained 
it,  and  to  every  quart  add  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the 
same  quantity  of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
mace,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne;  put  into  a  stone  jar 
closely  covered ;  set  this  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  steadily  and  hard  for  five  hours ;  then  pour  into 
a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and  boil  an  hour  longer;  let  it 
stand  all  night  in  a  cool  place  until  settled  and  clear ;  pour 
off  carefully  from  the  sediment  and  put  in  small  bottles, 
filling  well,  corking  tight,  sealing,  and  covering  the  corks 
with  bladders. 

Horseradish  Vinegar.  —  Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
horseradish  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  white  sugar ;  one  quart 
of  vinegar. 

Scald  vinegar  and  sugar,  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  horse- 
radish ;  steep  a  week ;  strain  and  bottle. 

Celery  Vinegar. — One  bunch  of  fresh  celery,  chopped 
fine,  or  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed ;  one  quart  of 
the  best  vinegar;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one  tablespoon- 
f  ul  of  white  sugar. 


522  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Pat  the  celery  or  seed  into  a  jar ;  scald  the  vinegar,  sug- 
ar and  salt,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  celery  ;  let  it 
cool,  cover  it  tightly,  and  set  away.  In  a  fortnight  strain 
and  put  in  small  bottles,  corking  tightly. 

Onion  Vinegar. — Six  large  onions ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar ;  one  quart  of 
the  best  vinegar. 

Mince  the  onions,  strew  on  the  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
five  or  six  hours;  scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar 
has  been  dissolved,  pour  over  the  onions,  put  into  a  jar, 
tie  down  the  cover,  steep  a  fortnight,  strain,  and  bottle. 

Mock  Capers. — Gather  ripe  green  nasturtium  seed,  dry 
a  day  in  the  sun,  put  into  small  jars  or  wide-mouthed  bot- 
tles, pour  over  them  boiling  vinegar  duly  salted,  but  light- 
ly spiced,  and  when  cold  cork  closely.  Let  them  stand 
six  weeks  before  using  them. 

Spiced  Vinegar. — -One  quart  of  the  best  vinegar;  one 
third  of  an  ounce  of  celery  seed ;  one  third  of  an  ounce 
of  fresh  sorrel;  one  third  of  an  ounce  of  parsley;  one 
third  of  an  ounce  of  mint;  one  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  dried 
elder  flowers ;  two  tablespoonf uls  of  white  sugar ;  two 
shallots ;  one  clove  of  garlic ;  three  or  four  whole  peppers; 
two  cloves;  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg;  salt  to  taste;  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  best  brandy. 

Steep  for  one  month  in  a  well-covered  earthen  jar;  then 
strain,  filter,  and  bottle. 

Pepper  Vinegar  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). 
— Six  red-pepper  pods  broken  up ;  three  dozen  black  pep- 
percorns ;  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  white  sugar ;  one  quart 
of  the  best  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved, 
pour  over  the  pepper,  put  into  a  jar,  and  steep  a  fortnight ; 
strain  and  bottle. 


BOTTLED  SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VINEGARS,  ETC.       523 

Celery  Salt. — Mix  dried  and  grated  celery  root  with 
one  fourth  its  quantity  of  salt;  This  is  a  nice  seasoning, 
and  keeps  a  long  time. 

Spice  Salt. — Quarter  of  an  ounce  of  powdered  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  and  pepper ;  one  eighth  of  an  ounce  each  of  mar- 
joram and  cayenne  pepper;  half  an  ounce  each  of  pow- 
dered clove  and  nutmeg;  add  an  ounce  of  salt  to  every 
four  ounces  of  this  powder.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  keep  in 
an  air-tight  vessel. 

Essence  of  Citron. — Oil  of  citron,  thirty  drops ;  proof 
spirit,  one  ounce. 

Mix.     Useful  for  flavoring  sweets. 

Essence  of  Mace. — Oil  of  mace,  twenty  drops ;  proof 
spirit,  one  ounce. 

Mix.  Useful  for  flavoring  sweets,  sauces,  and  mulled 
wine. 

Essence  of  Caraway  Seeds. — Oil  of  caraway,  one  drachm; 
proof  spirit,  four  drachms. 

Mix.     Useful  for  flavoring  sweets. 

Essence  for  Sauce  Piquante. — Put  into  an  earthen  stew- 
pan  one  bottleful  of  white  wine ;  half  a  bottleful  of  the 
best  vinegar;  the  juice  of  four  lemons;  powdered  pepper, 
cloves,  and  mace ;  six  laurel  leaves ;  a  little  thyme  and 
basil ;  thirty  button  onions  peeled  and  sliced ;  one  ounce 
of  dried  parsley;  three  cloves  of  garlic;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  brown  sugar. 

Heat  almost  to  boiling;  then  put  the  stewpan  on  the 
hot  coals,  and  keep  it  hot  for  eight  hours ;  it  must  not, 
however,  be  allowed  to  boil ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
pressing  it  hard ;  when  cool,  filter  it  carefully,  and  pour 
it  into  small  bottles,  which  should  be  carefully  sealed;  a 
very  few  drops  of  this  essence  will  serve  to  flavor  a  sauce. 


524  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Essence  of  Spinach  (for  sauces). — Wash  the  spinach 
thoroughly  through  several  waters  ;  then  cook  it  in  a  very 
little  water,  with  some  parsley  and  a  few  onion  tops ;  when 
cooked,  throw  it  instantly  into  very  cold  water,  allow  it  to 
remain  a  few  moments,  and  then  put  it  into  a  cleato,  coarse 
muslin  cloth,  and  press  out  the  juice;  the  juice  will  be  of 
a  beautiful  green  color,  and  can  be  used  for  coloring  puree 
of  pease,  pistachio  cream,  or  any  green  sauce ;  if  you  wish 
to  preserve  it,  it  should  be  cooked  d  bain-marie,  and 
strained  through  a  sieve ;  the  green  deposit  which  remains 
in  the  sieve  should  be  dried,  put  into  a  jar  with  a  closely 
fitting  lid,  and  kept  in  a  cool  place;  it  will  regain  color 
the  moment  it  is  put  into  broth  or  sauce. 

Essence   of  Marjoram.  —  Essential   oil   of    marjoram, 
twenty  drops;  proof   spirit,  one  ounce. 
Mix.     Useful  for  flavoring  gravy. 

Essence  of  Savory  Spices. — Black  pepper,  one  ounce ; 
powdered  allspice,  half  an  ounce ;  grated  nutmeg,  quarter 
of  an  ounce;  proof  spirit,  one  pint. 

Mix,  and  steep  for  ten  days ;  then  decant.  Useful  for 
flavoring  savory  dishes. 

Essence  of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel  (i.  e.,  Zest). — Rub  the 
yellow  peel  of  fresh  lemons  or  oranges  with  lumps  of 
white  sugar,  and,  when  saturated,  press  them  into  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  and  cork.  Infinitely  superior  to  dried 
peel  for  flavoring. 

Roast  Parsley  (for  sauces  and  stuffing). — The  parsley 
should  be  fresh  and  crisp ;  as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is 
gathered  it  should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  and  instantly 
dried  with  a  clean  cloth  ;  it  should  then  be  placed  on  a 
gridiron,  and  roasted  before — not  over — the  fire,  which 
should  be  clear  and  fierce,  so  that  the  parsley  may  dry  as 
quickly  as  possible ;  it  will  soon  curl  up,  and  dry,  but  will 


BOTTLED  SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VINEGARS,  ETC.   525 


retain  its  fresh,  green  color ;  it  can  then  be  crumbled  fine 
with  the  lingers,  and  put  into  a  jar;  it  is  extremely  useful 
for  sauces  and  stuffing,  and  prettier  than  chopped  parsley, 
because  it  retains  the  color  better. 

Spiced  Lard. — Put  into  a  casserole  three  ounces  of  puri- 
fied lard ;  three  ounces  of  beef  drippings,  clarified ;  one  and 
a  half  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon; 
a  laurel  leaf;  two  cloves;  two  carrots  ;  two  onions  chopped 
fine;  some  whole  peppercorns;  a  pinch  of  allspice;  salt 
to  taste ;  a  glass  of  strong  broth. 

Boil,  stirring  continually,  until  all  the  ingredients  are 
dissolved  and  well  mixed  together;  then  add  a  little  water, 
boil  again,  and  skim  carefully;  strain  through  a  coarse 
muslin  cloth  into  porcelain  jars,  which  should  be  tightly 
covered,  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Made  Mustard  ("  Common-Sense  in  the  Household  "). 
— Four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  English  mustard ;  two 
teaspoon fuls  of  salt ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  white  pepper;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salad 
oil;  enough  tarragon  vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste; 
one  small  garlic  pounded  to  a  pulp. 

Pat  the  mustard  in  a  bowl  and  wet  with  the  oil,  rubbing 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  absorbed ;  wet  with  vinegar 
to  a  stiff  paste;  add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  garlic,  and 
work  all  together  thoroughly,  wetting,  little  by  little,  with 
the  vinegar  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  cake  batter; 
beat  hard  for  five  minutes,  put  into  wide-mouthed  bottles, 
cover  with  a  little  oil,  cork  tightly,  and  set  away  in  a  cool 
place.  It  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  is  fit  for  use  in  a  few 
days. 


BOTTLED   DRINKS. 

Small  Beer. — Fifteen  gallons  of  water ;  five  gallons  of 
molasses ;  five  pounds  of  wheat  bran ;  half  a  pound  of 
hops. 

Boil  the  above  ingredients  together  for  three  hours; 
strain  the  mixture  into  a  clean  cask,  and  when  milkwarm 
pour  in  a  quart  of  good  yeast ;  shake  it  well,  stop  it  close, 
and  bottle  when  quite  clear.  The  excellence  of  the  beer 
depends  upon  putting  in  the  yeast  at  the  proper  time ;  if 
too  hot  or  too  cold  it  will  not  ferment. 

Boneset  Beer. — Eight  ounces  of  race  ginger ;  two  ounces 
of  boneset ;  two  ounces  of  horehound  ;  one  ounce  of  sas- 
safras bark ;  one  ounce  of  hops ;  eight  gallons  of  water. 

Pour  the  water  boiling  hot  over  the  other  ingredients, 
and  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour,  well  covered,  to  draw ; 
then  strain  and  sweeten  to  taste;  put  it  into  a  keg,  and 
add  a  teacupf  ul  of  yeast ;  bung  it  tight. 

Spruce  Beer. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar ;  one  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses; thirty  drops  of  oil  of  spruce;  thirty  drops  of  oil 
of  sassafras ;  four  quarts  of  cold,  and  four  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water ;  one  quart  of  homemade  yeast. 

Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  strain,  bottle,  and  cork  tightly. 

Cream  Beer. — Two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  three  pints 
of  water ;  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  cream  tartar ;  half  an 
ounce  of  wintergreen  ;  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sifted  flour,  beaten  smooth  in  water. 

Boil  the  sugar,  acid,  and  flour  in  the  water  for  five  min- 


BOTTLED  DRINKS.  527 

utes ;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  essence, 
and  lemon ;  bottle  and  keep  in  a  cool  place ;  use  two  ta- 
blespoonfnls  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water  and  a  little  soda. 

Cream  Ginger  Beer. — One  ounce  of  race  ginger,  bruised 
and  boiled  in  one  pint  of  water  fifteen  minutes  ;  one  hand- 
ful of  hops  boiled  as  above ;  three  large  lemons,  sliced ; 
ten  quarts  of  cold  water;  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar;  one 
pint  of  fresh  potato  yeast. 

Mix  the  ginger,  hops,  lemons,  and  water  together;  then 
mix  the  loaf  sugar  and  yeast  well  together,  and  add  to  the 
other  ingredients ;  strain  and  bottle,  and  it  is  ready  for 
use. 

Ginger  Beer. — Put  into  a  large  crock  four  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar ;  two  ounces  of  pounded  ginger ;  the  rinds  of 
&ve  lemons. 

Pour  over  the  above  ingredients  five  gallons  of  boiling 
hot  spring-water;  then  beat  up  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
with  the  juice  of  the  five  lemons,  and  mix  with  the  liquor ; 
when  it  is  milkwarm  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  barm; 
cover  it  close  for  four  days ;  then  strain  and  bottle  it  in 
stone  bottles,  taking  care  not  to  fill  them  quite  full.  It  is 
fit  for  use  in  five  or  six  days. 

Beer. — Three  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  two  nutmegs, 
grated ;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  ground  cloves  ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  cinnamon  ;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar ;  one  pint  of  baker's  yeast. 

Mix  these  ingredients,  add  three  quarts  of  water,  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  all  night,  skim  it,  and  it  is  fit  for 
use. 

Sassafras  Beer.  —  One  teaspoon fnl  of  sassafras;  the 
grated  rind  and  pulp  of  three  lemons ;  one  pint  of  hop 
water;  four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  ;  four  gallons  of  water; 
one  pint  of  good  yeast. 


528  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Put  the  sassafras,  hop  water,  and  lemons  together,  and 
let  stand  until  the  flavor  of  the  lemons  is  imparted;  then 
add  the  sugar,  water,  and  yeast ;  when  well  risen,  strain 
and  bottle. 

Wine  Bitters. — Two  ounces  of  orange  peel ;  two  ounces 
of  sweet  fennel;  one  ounce  of  gentian,  sliced  fine;  one 
ounce  of  cardamom  seed,  bruised ;  one  ounce  of  camo- 
mile flowers ;  one  drachm  of  cochineal ;  one  gallon  of 
brandy.  J 

Put  all  these  ingredients  into  the  brandy.  In  one  month 
the  bitters  will  be  fit  for  use.  The  brandy  can  be  poured 
off,  and  another  gallon  of  bitters  made  from  the  same  in- 
gredients. 

A  very  fine  Bitters  for  Ague  Regions. — One  ounce  of 
gentian  root;  one  ounce  of  orange  peel;  one  ounce  of  ju- 
niper berries;  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  cardamom 
seeds;  one  gallon  of  whiskey. 

Shake  frequently,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few 
days.  It  may  be  replenished  by  adding  more  spirits,  as  it 
diminishes  by  use,  to  the  extent  of  a  quart.    . 

Cherry  Bounce,  No.  1. — One  gallon  of  the  juice  of  ripe 
cherries;  four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  spice,  cinnamon, and 
cloves  to  taste. 

Pound  the  cherries  with  their  stones  in  a  mortar,  and 
strain  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  cloth ;  then  put  the 
sugar,  juice,  and  spice  on  the  fire  ;  let  the  ingredients  come 
slowly  to  a  boil,  and,  after  the  actual  boiling  begins,  add 
one  quart  of  brandy  and  one  pint  of  rum,  and  pour  into 
stone  bottles  or  jugs.  Cork  the  jugs  tightly,  and  keep 
them  in  a  cool  place. 

Cherry  Bounce,  'No.  2. — One  gallon  of  cherry  juice  (pre- 
pared as  above)  ;  half  a  gallon  of  French  brandy  or  rum  ; 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  a  very  little  cinnamon. 


BOTTLED  DRINKS.  529 

Put  all  the  ingredients  together  and  let  them  stand. 
The  bounce  will  be  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five  months. 

To  Bottle  Cider. — For  one  hogshead  of  cider  take  one 
gallon  of  good  French  brandy;  half  an  ounce  of  cochi- 
neal; one  pound  of  alum ;  three  pounds  of  rock  candy. 

Pound  all  well  in  a  mortar,  and  put  them  in  the  bran- 
dy for  a  day  or  two ;  then  mix  the  whole  with  the  cider, 
and  stop  it  close  for  six  months,  after  which,  if  fine,  bottle 
it  off.     The  brandy  will  keep  the  bottles  from  bursting. 

Artificial  Cider. — One  gallon  of  hot  water ;  one  pound 
of  brown  sugar;  half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Pour  the  mixture  into  a  jug,  let  it  stand  till  lukewarm, 
and  add  three  tablespoonf uls  of  yeast ;  shake  all  well  to- 
gether ;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  cork  it 
tight. 

Kentucky  Blackberry  Cordial. — Fresh  blackberries,  well 
washed  and  picked. 

Put  them  in  a  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  simmer 
them,  and  when  soft  mash  and  put  them  in  a  flannel  bag 
to  drain  ;  then  for  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  half  pound 
of  sugar,  clarify  with  white  of  an  egg,  and  strain ;  to  ev- 
ery quart  of  syrup  add  one  pint  of  good  brandy. 

Blackberry  Cordial  (William  Penn's). — Two  quarts  of 
blackberry  juice ;  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  half  an  ounce 
of  nutmeg,  grated  ;  half  an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  ;  half 
an  ounce  of  cloves ;  half  an  ounce  of  allspice. 

Boil  all  together  for  half  an  hour,  strain,  and  when  cold 
add  a  pint  of  fourth-proof  brandy  ;  bottle  and  cork  well. 

Ginger  Cordial. — Four  pounds  of  red  currants,  picked 
and  strung;  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  grated  rind  of 
one;  eight  ounces  of  ginger,  not  bruised;  one  ounce  of 
sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste;   one 

23 


530  THE  UNEIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste  ; 
one  gallon  of  whiskey. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  together  in  a  large  earthenware 
jar,  cover,  and  let  them  stand  six  weeks;  then  strain  care- 
fully, and  mix  with  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  four  pounds 
of  crushed  white  sugar  with  one  quart  of  water;  clarify 
with  beaten  white  of  egg;  after  being  clarified,  this  syrup 
should  be  poured  boiling  hot  into  the  strained  cordial, 
stirring  carefully  all  the  time ;  when  quite  cold,  bottle, 
and  set  away  for  use. 

Black-Currant  Cordial. — Bruise  the  currants  well,  and 
put  them  over  the  fire  witli  a  little  water  and  sugar ;  boil 
up  once;  then  squeeze  through  a  flannel  bag  and  strain 
again;  to  each  quart  of  juice  add  one  pint  of  water;  to 
every  ten  quarts  of  this  add  fourteen  pounds  of  sugar; 
put  over  the  fire,  and  after  it  has  come  to  a  boil  allow  it 
to  boil  three  minutes;  then  "take  from  the  fire,  and  add 
whiskey  in  the  proportion  of  three  pints  of  whiskey  to 
every  seven  pints  of  juice. 

Mississippi  Pomegranate  Cordial. — Separate  the  fruit 
from  the  core,  and  mash  it  sufficiently  to  obtain  juice 
enough  to  keep  the  fruit  from  burning;  steam  it  slowly 
over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  all  the  juice  is 
extracted  from  the  seeds;  then  strain  the  juice  from  the 
seeds,  and  allow  to  each  gallon  of  juice  two  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar  and  half  a  gallon  of  good  spirits ;  bottle  close- 
ly, and  let  it  stand  several  months  before  using  it. 

Mint  Cordial. — One  gallon  of  the  best  brandy ;  two 
large  handfuls  of  mint. 

Put  the  brandy  and  mint  into  a  stone  jar,  and  let  it 
stand  for  twenty-four  hours;  then  take  the  mint  out  and 
press  it  gently,  adding  the  same  quantity  of  fresh  mint 
to  the  brandy ;  soak  again  for  twenty-four  hours ;  then 
strain  the  liquor,  and  add  to  each  pint  of  liquor  three 


BOTTLED  DRINKS.  531 

quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved let  it  stand  a  little  while  to  settle,  and  bottle  it. 

Kirsch. — Take  a  pound  of  wild  plums,  mash  them,  and 
take  out  the  stones  and  crack  them ;  throw  them  in  a  gal- 
lon of  brandy;  let  them  steep  a  month  ;  filter,  and  you 
have  the  famous  kirsch.  Syrup,  added  to  taste,  makes  a 
delicious  cordial. 

Raspberry  Cordial. — Dissolve  three  pounds  of  sugar  in 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  raspberry  juice;  add  half  a  pound  of 
mashed  ripe  cherries  and  one  quart  of  i^ood  brandy  ;  strain 
and  filter. 

Maraschino. — Dissolve  four  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  quart 
of  wTater ;  add  a  quart  of  alcohol ;  filter  and  pour  into 
bottles;  add.  to  each  bottle  just  enough  essence  of  bitter 
almonds  to  flavor.   . 

Curaeoa. — Six  bitter  oranges;  the  grated  rind  of  four. 
,  Put  this  to  steep  a  week  in  a  quart  of  alcohol  with  two 
cloves,  a  spoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mace; 
strain,  and  add  a  syrup  made  of  six  pounds  of  sugar  dis- 
solved in  three  pints  of  water ;  leave  it  a  month,  and  bot- 
tle it. 

Lemon  Punch  to  Keep. — Twelve  lemons;  the  peel  of 
twelve  lemons  shaved  very  thin;  one  gallon  of  water; 
two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  one  quart  of  the  best  whis- 
key. 

Boil  the  rinds  of  the  twelve  lemons  in  a  gallon  of  wa- 
ter until  the  flavor  is  extracted ;  squeeze  the  lemons  over 
;the  loaf  sugar,  and  add  them  to  the  water  after  strain- 
ing the  peel  from  it;  stir  in  the  whiskey,  and  bottle  for 
use. 

Orgeat.— Half  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pound- 


532  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

ed  in  a  mortar,  and  mixed  with  a  little  rose  water;  one 
quart  of  boiling  water. 

When  nearly  cold,  strain,  sweeten,  and  flavor  with  rose 
water. 

Milk  .Punch  to  Keep.—HdM  a  gallon  of  the  best  white 
brandy  ;  half  a  gallon  of  rum;  three  pounds  of  white  loaf 
sugar,  grated /  two  grated  nutmegs;  the  juice  of  eighteen 
lemons;  two  quarts  of  boiling  milk;  five  quarts  of  cold 
water. 

Soak  the  rinds  of  the  lemons  in  the  rum  and  brandy  for 
forty-eight  hours;  then  strain  the  liquor;  add  first  the 
sugar,  then  the  lemon  juice,  then  the  nutmeg,  then  the 
cold  water,  and,  last  of  all,  and  when  the  other  ingredients 
have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  the  boiling  milk  ;  stir  stead- 
ily all  the  time  ;  when  mixed,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 
Filtering  through  paper  will  make  it  bright.  Bottle  for 
use,  as  it  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

Currant  Shrub. — Press  the  juice  from  the  currants  with- 
out heating  them  ;  put  it  in  a  dry,  warm  place  to  undergo 
a  slight  fermentation ;  after  a  few  days  remove  the  scum 
from  the  top,  and  use  the  clear  part  of  the  juice,  leaving 
the  thick  scum  at  the  bottom.  To  a  pint  of  clear  juice 
add  two  pounds  of  the  best  white  crushed  sugar;  when 
dissolved,  scald  all  together  for  a  moment  and  bottle  the 
mixture.  It  will  keep  for  two  years,  and,  mixed  with  wa- 
ter, is  a  refreshing  drink. 

Lemon  Syrup. — One  quart  of  lemon  juice ;  three  pounds 
of  loaf  sugar. 

Boil  to  a  syrup ;  when  it  has  boiled  thoroughly,  pour  it 
hot  over  the  rinds  of  the  lemons  and  let  it  cool ;  then  strain 
and  bottle  for  use.     Excellent. 

Lime  Syrup. — Prepare  as  above,  adding  a  little  more 
sugar  if  necessary.     Delicious  with  iced  soda  water. 


BOTTLED  DRINKS.  533 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — One  quart  of  ripe  berries ;  one 
quart  of  strong  vinegar. 

Put  the  raspberries  into  a  bowl,  pour  on  them  a  quart 
of  strong  vinegar,  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  pour  this  liquor  on  an- 
other quart  of  berries ;  do  this  for  three  or  four  days  suc- 
cessively, and  strain  it ;  make  it  very  sweet  with  loaf  sug- 
ar, bottle,  and  seal  it. 

Raspberry  Royal.  —  Four  quarts  of  ripe  berries;  one 
quart  of  the  best  cider  vinegar ;  one  pound  of  white  sug- 
ar; one  pint  of  fine  brandy. 

Put  the  berries  into  a  stone  jar  and  mash  them  to  a  pulp  ; 
add  enough  of  the  best  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  fruit 
well;  stand  in  the  sun  four  hours;  strain,  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  and  put  in  the  brandy ;  seal  in  bottles,  and  lay  them 
on  their  sides  in  the  cellar ;  cover  the  bottles  with  saw- 
dust: pour  two  tablespoonfuls  to  a  tumblerful  of  ice- 
water. 

Slack -Currant  Wine. — One  gallon  of  whiskey;  four 
quarts  of  black  currants ;  four  pounds  of  brown  or  white 
sugar;  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves;  one  tablespoonful  of 
cinnamon. 

Crush  the  currants,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  whiskey 
with  the  spices  for  three  weeks ;  then  strain  and  add  the 
sugar ;  set  away  again  for  three  weeks  longer ;  then  strain 
and  bottle. 

Red- Currant  Wine. — Take  fresh  and  very  ripe  currants, 
pick,  string,  and  mash  them,  and  add  to  every  quart  of 
juice  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  half  a 
pint  of  water. 

Stir  all  together  long  and  well,  put  into  a  clean  cask, 
leaving  out  the  bung,  and  covering  the  whole  with  a  bit 
of  lace  or  mosquito  net ;  let  it  ferment  about  four  weeks ; 
when  quite  still  strain  and  bottle. 


534  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Blackberry  Wine.— One,  quart  of  strained  juice  of  the 
ripe  berry;  two  quarts  of  water;  allow  three  pounds  of 
sugar  to  every  gallon  of  the  liquid,  and  set  it  away  to  fer- 
ment; skim  it  every  day  for  three  weeks,  and  then  put  it 
into  a  keg  or  jug;  at  Christinas  it  may  be  drained  off  and 
bottled  for  use ;  the  older  it  grows  the  better  it  will  be. 
This  receipt  will  serve  for  grapes,  except  that  hot  water  is 
used — one  pint  only  to  a  gallon  of  juice. 

Elderberry  Wine.— One  quart  of  juice ;  one  quart  of 
water ;  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 

Let  it  stand  in  an  open  vessel  for  twenty-four  hours; 
then  strain  it  carefully  into  bottles,  and  cork  them  tight. 

Rhubarb  Wine. — Five  pounds  of  rhubarb  cut  into  small 
pieces ;  one  gallon  of  water.  Let  it  stand  for  ten  da}^, 
stirring  it  twice  a  day;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  to  a  gallon  ;  put  it  into  a 
clean  cask,  and  let  it  remain  five  months;  then  add  the 
rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons;  half  a  pint  of.  brandy,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  isinglass;  in  a  few  days  it  maybe  bottled, 
putting  two  raisins  into  each  bottle;  cork  and  seal  the 
bottles. 

Strawberry  Wine. — To  the  juice  of  three  quarts  of 
strawberries,  mashed  and  strained,  add  for  each  quart  of 
juice  one  quart  of  water  ;  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 

Stir  up  well,  and  ferment  in  a  clean,  sweet  cask,  leaving 
the  bung  out ;  when  quite  quiet  strain  into  bottles,  and 
cork  for  use. 

Cranherry  Wine. — To  two  quarts  of  ripe  cranberries, 
mashed  to  a  pulp,  add  one  quart  of  water;  stir  well,  and 
let  it  Stand  for  two  days ;  strain  through  a  double-flannel 
bag  ;  mash  two  more  quarts  of  berries,  and  pour  this  juice 
over;  steep  two  days  more  ;  strain;  add  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  for  three  quarts  of  liquor,  and  boil  five  minutes; 


BOTTLED  DRINKS.  535 

let  it  ferment  in  lightly  covered  jars  ;  strain  and  bottle. 
Said  to  be  good  for  scrofula. 

Raisin  Wine. — One  pound  of  white  sugar;  two  pounds 
of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped  ;  one  lemon,  all  the  juice, 
and  half  the  grated  peel ;  two  gallons  of  boiling  water. 

Put  all  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  a  week; 
then  strain  and  bottle;  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten  days. 

Florida  Orange  Wine. — Twen ty  gallons  of  water ;  sixty 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar;  twenty  quarts  of  orange  juice. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water,  skimming  it  until  the  foam 
disappears ;  then  let  it  cool,  and,  when  quite  cold,  add  the 
orange  juice ;  put  it  in  a  cask  with  a  piece  of  leaven,  and 
leave  it  uncorked,  to  ferment,  for  about  six  weeks,  or  until 
it  ceases  to  work  ;  then  cork  it  tight,  and  leave  it  undis- 
turbed for  six  months,  when  it  is  fit  to  be  bottled. 


MISCELLANEOUS   SAVORY 
DISHES. 

ENTBEES. 

Potted  Beef. — Two  pounds  of  tender  beef  without  fat 
or  skin  ;  beat  it ;  then  put  it  into  a  covered  jar  wTith  two 
ounces  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  a  blade 
of  mace. 

Bake  slowly  until  thoroughly  cooked  ;  pound  in  mortar 
while  hot,  adding  the  gravy,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  flavor  with  pepper,  salt,  and  essence  of  anchovy; 
press  it  tightly  into  pots,  and  cover  with  butter. 

Chicken  Cream. — Take  one  pound  of  the  white  part  of 
a  chicken  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham  ;  mince;  pound 
in  mortar,  and  pass  through  a  sieve ;  add  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  half  a  pint  of 
whipped  cream ;  flavor  to  taste  with  salt,  ground  mace, 
and  the  merest  soupgon  of  cayenne;  also,  essence  of  celery. 

Pound  all  well  together  again,  put  into  buttered  scallop 
shells,  and  bake ;  or  steam  in  buttered  mould  for  twen- 
ty minutes,  and  serve  with  bechamel,  oyster,  celery,  or  to- 
mato sauce. 

Hot  Marrow-bones. — Choose  some  good  marrow-bones; 
scrape  clean,  and  boil  until  the  marrow  is  tender  and 
luscious ;  then  take  out  the  bones,  dry  them  carefully,  and 
envelop  each  in  white  paper  ruffed  at  each  end  as  for  ham. 
Tie  a  ribbon  round  each  one,  arrange  on  a  hot  plate,  and 
hand  with  hot  toast,  cut  into  squares,  to  each  guest ;  the 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  537 

marrow  is  then  emptied  on  the  toast,  and  eaten  with  salt 
and  pepper.     This  is  a  delicious  relish. 

Croutes  a  la  Moelle  de  Bmif — Lay  in  cold  water  for 
two  hours  two  or  three  pieces  of  beef  marrow  from  five  to 
six  inches  long  ;  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  and  cook 
in  a  little  bouillon;  boil  for  some  minutes;  then  with- 
draw the  stewpan  from  the  hot  lire ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
afterwards  drain  the  marrow,  cut  into  small  pieces,  spread 
on  hot  toast,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  dust  with  a 
little  powdered  chives,  arrange  on  a  napkin,  and  serve 
hot. 

Boar,  Wild,  in  Dolceforte. — Take  cutlets  of  wild  boar, 
trim,  clean,  and  put  them  to  soak  for  six  hours  in  a  bath 
of  the  finest  olive-oil  (just  enough  to  cover  them),  with  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  powdered  cinnamon,  two 
or  three  shallots,  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  some  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  cover  closely,  and  leave 
six  hours  in  a  cool  place ;  then  wipe  perfectly  dry,  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  lean  ham  sliced 
thin,  and  a  piece  of  fresh  butter;  cook  until  they  are  a 
light  brown  on  both  sides  ;  then  cover  with  beefsteak, 
and  stew  until  tender;  then  drain;  place  on  a  hot  plate, 
and  cover  with  the  following  sauce,  called  Dolceforte: 
Half  a  tumblerful  of  powdered  sugar ;  three  quarters  of 
a  tumblerful  of  strong  vinegar;  one  cofieecupful  of  Sul- 
tana raisins,  seeded ;  one  coffeecupful  of  pinocchi,  i.  <?., 
pine  nuts  (blanched  almonds  may  be  substituted);  half  a 
cake  of  the  best  chocolate,  grated. 

Mix;  throw  into  the  gravy  in  which  the  wild  boar  has 
cooked,  boil  up  once,  thicken  with  rolled  bread  crumbs, 
pour  over  the  boar,  and  serve ;  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon. 

Breakfast  Brawn. — Cut  into  small  pieces  and  simmer 
half  an  ox  foot,  twenty  peppercorns,  six  allspice  berries^ 

23* 


538  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

three  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  two  button  onions  in  a  tum- 
blerful of  water  for  an  hour,  until  the  gelatinous  substance 
is  quite  soft ;  strain  the  liquor,  and  add  half  a  teacupf  ul 
of  rich  pork  or  veal  gravy  ;  stir  all  together,  and  keep 
lukewarm  until  the  meat  is  ready  for  the  mould  ;  but  first 
pour  in  a  little  gravy  to  cover  and  jelly  in  the  bottom  of 
the  mould,  while  you  are  cutting  up  the  meat,  which  will 
make  it  turn  out  with  a  nice  jelly  on  top;  cut  into  small,  neat 
pieces  half  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  cooked  or  tinned  meat, 
or  tongue;  if  bacon  or  a  little  fat  pork  is  liked,  boil  a  little 
with  the  ox  foot,  and  cut  it  up  with  the  other  meat;  season 
the  meat  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  the  gravy  among 
it,  and  press  it  down  firmly  into  the  mould  ;  when  cold  it 
should  turn  out  a  nice  shape  of  meat  encased  in  jelly. 

Scrambles. — Mince  a  small  tin  of  chicken,  or  a  small 
boiled  chicken,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  boiled  bacon, 
three  small  pickled  gherkins,  and  six  pickled  onions;  seaT 
son  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg; 
pour  in  a  teacupful  of  good  gravy  in  which  sufficient  gela- 
tine has  been  dissolved  to  make  it  jelly,  when  cold,  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  ;  butter  some  teacups,  and, 
after  placing  at  the  bottom  of  each  a  tiny  red  star  of  beet 
root,  pour  in  the  mixture  ;  if  a  dozen  scrambles  are  made, 
half  of  them  can  be  garnished  in  this  way,  and  half  with 
stars  made  out  of  the  white  of  egg  boiled.  In  this  man- 
ner can  be  made  quite  a  novel  and  piquant  dish  for  lunch- 
eon. 

Potted  Chicken. — Pound  some  tinned  or  boiled  chicken 
(freed  from  bone)  in  a  mortar;  boil  an  egg  quite  hard,  rub 
the  yolk  to  powder,  and  mix  it  to  a  smooth,  creamy  liquid 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich. cream,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  sugar ;  add,  drop  by  drop,  a  tablespoonful  of 
white  vinegar,  beating  all  the  time;  mince  a  small  button 
onion,  and  leave  for  an  hour  in  the  mixture  to  draw  out 
the  flavor;  then  strain,  incorporate  thoroughly  with  the 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  539 

chicken,  which  shape  into  a  cone  or  mound ;  garnish  with 
a  wreath  of  watercress,  and  serve ;  this  quantity  is  suffi- 
cient for  a  pound  of  chicken,  and  makes  an  agreeable 
change  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Brother  Jonathan. — Make  a  mush  of  Indian  meal,  add- 
ing enough  wheat  flour  to  prevent  the  pieces  from  break- 
ing when  they  are  sliced ;  make  the  mush  the  day  before 
it  is  wanted,  and  set  it  to  cool  in  a  deep  pan,  that  the  slices 
may  be  large  enough  ;  turn  out  the  cool  mass,  and  cut  it 
in  slices ;  then,  with  the  top  of  a  teacup,  cut  out  circles  like 
shortcake ;  put  these  little  circles  round  a  plate  or  dish, 
in  a  row ;  then  add  another  row  on  top  of  these,  and  so  on 
until  you  form  a  low  pyramid  ;  sprinkle  each  row  freely 
with  rich  grated  cheese ;  dot  the  top  row  thickly  with  bits 
of  butter,  and  dust  with  grated  bread  crumbs  and  red 
pepper;  brown  in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  baked.  Two  or  three  yolks  of  eggs  stirred  into 
the  mush  while  warm  will  add  to  the  richness. 

Green  Butter. — Two  ounces  of  parsley  picked  from  the 
stalk,  boiled  till  tender,  and  the  juice  pressed  from  it ;  two 
ounces  of  anchovy  fish,  washed,  boned,  and  pounded  fine; 
four  ounces  of  fresh  butter  to  be  thoroughly  mixed  with 
the  parsley  and  anchovy,  and  passed  through  a  very  fine, 
clean  sieve  ;  press  into  shape  like  a  cream  cheese,  and  keep 
in  the  cold  until  wanted. 

Green  Cream  Cheese. — Two  ounces  of  parsley,  washed, 
dried,  and  roasted  before  a  clear,  fierce  fire  until  it  can  be 
crumbled  to  a  fine  green  powder;  one  ounce  of  fresh 
watercress,  washed,  dried,  and  chopped  very  fine ;  one 
ounce  of  celery  pounded  to  a  pulp ;  blend  all  thoroughly 
and  smoothly  with  four  ounces  of  fresh  cream  cheese  ;- 
pass  through  a  fine,  clean  sieve  ;  salt  to  taste ;  add  the 
faintest  soupcon  of  cayenne ;  then  press  into  shapes  like 
tiny  cream  cheeses,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted; 


540  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

SIMPLE    ENTREES. 

Brewis. — Half  a  loaf  of  stale  white  or  brown  bread  ;  put 
into  the  saucepan  with  any  joint  of  boiled  salt  beef,  and 
allow  to  simmer  with  it  till  well  soaked  through  and  per- 
fectly soft ;  turn  out  into  a  vegetable  dish,  and  keep  hot 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  until  the  meat  is  ready;  serve  with 
it.  This  is  a  well-known  Scotch  dish,  and  an  excellent 
accompaniment  to  boiled  beef. 

Savory  Bice. — Thoroughly  boil  a  large  cupful  of  rice ; 
have  ready  a  buttered  pie-dish,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
good  strong  stock;  drain  the  rice;  turn  it  into  a  pie-dish; 
pour  the  stock  over  it;  add  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt, 
and  butter;  place  it  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Aspic  Jelly. — Put  two  calf's  feet,  a  knuckle  bone  of  veal, 
and  a  shank  of  ham  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  and  a  half, 
or  rather  more,  of  good  stock ;  stew  this  down  to  a  glaze; 
then  pour  on  it  a  pint  and  a  half  more  stock ;  add  to  this 
a  sprig  of  parslej^,  one  onion,  two  or  three  cloves,  three 
carrots,  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  a  little  salt,  and  let  it 
stew  for  six  hours  more,  skimming  it  well ;  strain  it  into 
a  basin  to  get  cold  ;  then  put  the  four  whites  of  eggs  with 
the  strained  juice  of  two  lemons  into  a  stewpan,  add  the 
jellied  stock,  and  heat  it  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
is  on  the  point  of  boiling;  next  remove  the  stewpan  to 
the  side,  and  place  fire  on  the  top  of  it ;  let  it  stand  about 
twenty  minutes  more;  after  this  strain  it  through  a  jelly 
bag  until  quite  clear,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Jellied  Chicken. — Soak  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  teacup- 
f ul  of  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes,  squeeze  it  quite  dry, 
and  melt  it  in  a  pint  of  clear  stock  in  which  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  marjoram  and  half  a  rind  of  a  lemon  have  been 
simmered  for  ten  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  541 

pepper,  and  strain  the  liquor;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
mould  half  an  inch  thick  with  gravy,  and,  when  nicely  set 
in  jelly,  place  upon  it  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  prettily 
cut  beets,  pickled  gherkins  and  cucumbers  in  ornamental 
shapes;  mince  together  finely  two  pounds  of  chicken,  half 
a  pound  of  cooked  ham,  and  half  a  pound  of  boiled  tongue ; 
season  and  press  this  firmly  into  a  compact  lump,  and  put 
it  into  the  mould  in  such  a  manner  that  it  leaves  an  inch 
of  space  round  every  side,  this  space  being  filled  with  the 
gravy,  which  should  not  be  poured  in  until  quite  cool,  so 
that  it  may  jelly  quickly  and  preserve  the  shape  of  the 
meat.  This  dish  can  be  made  very  pretty,  and  in  cold 
weather  will  keep  for  a  week. 

Ragout  of  Livers  (Augustin's  entree). — Prepare  your 
chicken  livers  carefully,  and  have  them  whole;  bleach 
them  a  moment  in  boiling  water,  and  put  them  immedi- 
ately in  a  saucepan  with  gravy  or  bouillon,  half  a  glassful 
of  white  wine,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  half  a  clove  of  garlic, 
salt  and  pepper;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  skim  it  careful- 
ly, take  out  the  soup  bunch,  thicken  the  sauce  with  a  lit- 
tle flour,  and  serve. 

Salpicon  (Madame  Eugene's  entree). — Make  a  white 
roux :  moisten  it  with  bouillon  and  a  glassful  of  white 
wine ;  add  a  soup  bunch,  salt,  and  pepper ;  let  it  boil  and 
thicken  ;  take  for  your  ragout  equal  portions  of  whatever 
cold  meats,  fowl,  game,  livers,  ham  and  tongue,  mushrooms, 
bottoms  of  artichokes,  you  may  have,  and  cut  them  in  lit- 
tle dice;  let  them  simmer  and  color;  take  out  the  soup 
bunch ;  thicken  the  sauce  with  a  little  flour  if  necessary ; 
fill  little  pates  and  vol  au  vents,  and  serve. 

Crow's  Fried  Chicken. — Cut  up  your  chicken,  wipe  it 
carefully,  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  light- 
ly with  flour ;  throw  in,  piece  by  piece,  in  boiling  lard ; 
drain  on  brown  paper ;  serve  it  surrounded  by  fried  parsley. 


542  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Ravioli. — -Make  a  paste  with  fresh  eggs,  flour,  and  a  lit- 
tle salt;  roll  it  out  very  thin,  and  powder  it  very  lightly 
with  flour;  cut  up  any  cold  meats  you  have — game,  poul- 
try, or  butcher's  meat;  season  highly;  bind  it  with  the 
yellow  of  an  egg,  and  put  at  equal  distances,  on  half  the 
sheet  of  paste,  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture ;  cover  with  the 
other  sheet  of  paste,  press  the  paste  carefully  around  each 
spoonful  of  stuffing,  and  cut  them  apart ;  throw  them  into 
boiling  bouillon  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese. 

Ckicken-and- Corn  Pudding. — Cut  up  a  chicken  and  fric- 
assee it  with  a  rich  sauce;  boil  a  dozen  ears  of  corn,  cut  it 
off  the  cob,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of  but^ 
ter  as  large  as  an  egg,  and  beat  in  five  eggs  and  enough 
milk  to  make  it  the  right  consistency;  butter  a  deep  bak- 
ing-dish and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  corn  pudding,  then  the 
chicken  and  sauce,  and,  last,  another  layer  of  corn  pudding  ; 
bake,  and  serve  hot. 

Milanaise  Croquettes. — Cut  up  equal  parts  of  chicken, 
tongue,  truffles,  and  macaroni  in  little  dice;  mix  together 
with  a  white  sauce  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  serve  in 
scallop  shells. 

Neapolitan  Chicken  Livers. — Take  the  best  Neapolitan 
macaroni,  Parmesan  cheese,  fresh  butter,  and  two  dozen 
chicken  livers;  chop  the  livers,  with  celery,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  eschalottes ;  blanch  your  macaroni  in  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  drain  ;  in  the  meantime  cook  your  livers  and  sea- 
sonings in  a  saucepan  with  butter;  then  put  alternate  lay- 
ers of  macaroni  and  liver  and  Parmesan  cheese  in  a  bak- 
ing-dish, and  cover  with  grated  cheese;  bake  over  a  slow 
fire,  and  serve. 

Bombay  Curry. — Any  cold  cooked  meat  or  fowl,  well 
floured;  add  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  ham  and  bacon,  and 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVOHY  DISHES.  543 

a  little  soup  meat ;  fry  two  chopped  onions  and  put  in  the 
stewpan,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  the  same 
of  pea  flour,  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced 
apples,  and  rice ;  put  all  these  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
butter  and  salt,  and  enough  bouillon  to  moisten  all;  the 
vegetables,  rice,  etc.,  must 'be  put  in  first ;  the  meat  some 
ten  minutes  later;  stew  until  all  the  ingredients  are  thor- 
oughly cooked. 

Madras  Curry.  —  Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  curry 
paste ;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  apples,  sliced  and  stewed 
until  soft;  two  ounces  of  butter;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  Liebig's  extract ;  one  teacupf nl.of  rice ; 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  enough  bouillon  to  cov- 
er all. 

Let  all  stew  together  until  soft;  then  add  the  fowl, 
which  should  previously  be  cut  up  and  fried  lightly  in 
butter;  stew  until  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly 
cooked ;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve. 

Russian  Bread  Croquettes.  —  Take  some  well -risen 
doucrh :  roll  it  out  on  the  bread-board  with  a  little  fresh 
butter,  kneading  and  rolling  again  and  again,  until  the  but- 
ter is  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  dough  ;  then  roll 
out  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds  with  a  tumbler  ;  place 
a  spoonful  of  any- good  savory  hash  in  the  middle  of  each 
round,  and  fold  the  paste  over  carefully  so  as  to  enclose 
the  hash  completely;  brush  the  outside  of  the  paste  with 
beaten  white  of  egg,  and  drop  the  croquettes  so  prepared 
into  boiling  fat ;  when  fried  to  a  light  brown,  remove  with 
a  perforated  strainer;  drain  on  white  paper,  remove  to  a 
hot  dish,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Croquettes  of  Spinach.  —  Wash  the  spinach  carefully 
through  several  waters,  chop  it  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  por- 
celain saucepan  witli  some  fresh  butter,  a  little  marjoram. 


544  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  spoonful  of  white  sug- 
ar, and  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  ;  put  the  saucepan 
on  the  fire,  adding  a  tumblerful  of  milk,  and  cook  slowly 
until  all  the  milk  is  absorbed  ;  withdraw  the  saucepan  from 
the  fire,  and  when  the  spinach  is  somewhat  cooled  add 
two  eggs,  beaten  light;  stir  all  \tfell  together,  and  then  flour 
your  hands  and  proceed  to  shape  the  croquettes,  dipping 
them  afterwards  in  beaten  white  of  egg  and  rolled  bread 
crumbs ;  when  all  are  breaded,  drop  them  into  boiling  fat 
and  fry  a  light  brown ;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Croquettes  de  Fines  Heroes — Are  made  exactly  as  above, 
using  beet  tops  instead  of  spinach,  and  adding  a  small  quan- 
tity of  as  many  different  sweet  herbs  as  possible. 

Farina  Croquettes. — Boil  some  farina  in  milk  with  a 
little  salt  until  it  is  quite  thick;  then  take  the  stewpan 
from  the  fire,  and  when  the  farina  is  somewhat  cooled,  add 
some  eggs,  beaten  light ;  beat  these  well  and  smoothly  into 
the  farina,  and  then  shape  the  croquettes,  which  should  be 
small  oval  balls ;  roll  in  beaten  white  of  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Wet  Devil. — Any  cold  meat  or  fowl ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  currant  jelly ;  one  mustardspoonf  ul  of  made  mustard  ; 
one  tablespoonf ul  of  tomato  catsup  ;  one  tabiespoonful  of 
mushroom  ;  one  dessertspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  ; 
a  teaspoonful  of  Harvey  sauce ;  a  glassful  of  red  wine. 

Mix,  and  send  to  table  red-hot. 

Curried  Fish. — One  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  with 
raw  rice  pounded  fine ;  two  cloves  of  garlic ;  a  pinch  of 
ginger ;  a  few  peppercorns ;  a  little  turmeric ;  half  an 
onion;  butter,  stock,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar; 
also  a  tiny  pinch  of  sugar;  this  can  be  served  with  any 
kind  of  cold  fish  ;  in  stewing,  the  fish,  of  course,  should  be 
put  in  last. 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  545 

Kedgeree,  No.  1. — Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  and 
drain  it  as  dry  as  possible ;  have  ready  some  cooked  fish, 
boned,  skinned,  and  pulled  into  small  pieces. 

Mix  this  thoroughly  with  the  rice,  and  heat  over  the 
fire ;  then  beat  up  an  egg  very  light,  and  stir  well  into  the 
rice  and  fish ;  add  white  pepper,  cayenne,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Kedgeree,  !N"o.  2. — Four  ounces  of  well-boiled  rice,  dry 
and  tender ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  fish  as  above,  an 
ounce  or  two  of  fresh  butter,  full  seasoning  of  cayenne, 
and  salt  to  taste. 

Stir  the  kedgeree  constantly  over  a  clear  fire  until  very 
hot ;  then  mingle  quickly  with  it  two  lightly  beaten  eggs  ; 
stir  quickly  again,  put  on  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Stewed  Kidneys. — Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  cut  off  the  outside,  or  meat ;  slice  thinly ;  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  water,  and  cook  until 
tender  ;  then  add  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  little  browned 
flour  for  thickening ;  last  of  all  a  glassful  of  port  wine, 
and  a  little  roasted  powdered  parsley. 

Kidneys  a  la  Vieville. — Proceed  as-above,  stewing  them 
in  a  little  melted  butter  instead  of  water,  adding  also  some 
chopped  shallots ;  when  they  are  almost  cooked,  season 
with  salt  and  cayenne ;  then  take  them  out  and  drain  them ; 
meanwhile  pour  into  the  casserole  in  which  the  kidneys 
were  cooked  a  wineglassful  of  Madeira,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  strong  stock ;  let  the  sauce  come  to  a  boil,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  sauce  Espagnole  /  let  it  boil  up  once, 
then  add  the  kidneys,  two  spoonfuls  of  cooked  ham  cut 
into  dice,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  tarragon  ;  stir  and  put 
into  a  hot  dish,  surrounding  them  with  fried  crusts  of 
bread.     . 

Devilled  Kidneys.— Parboil  in  a  little  salt  and  water ; 
then  pass  on  a  skewer  and  roast  in  a  Dutch  oven,  basting 


546  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

with  batter  and  water;  dust  with  a  little  mustard  and 
cayenne  before  roasting,  or  stew  tender  in  salt  and  water; 
drain  and  pour  over  the  sauce  for  a  "  Wet  Devil." 

Russian  Kromeskys. — Mince  fine  cold  game,  fowl,  or 
fish,  adding  ham  or  tongue  if  possible,  also  mushrooms 
and  truffles;  put  all  together  in  a  stewpan  with  white 
sauce,  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  pepper, 
salt,  and  chopped  onion  ;  stir  a  moment,  then  spread  on  a 
platter  to  cool ;  then  divide  into  small  pieces,  and  roll  into 
the  form  of  a  cork;  fold  each  in  a  thin  slice  of  boiled 
bacon,  dip  in  butter,  and  fry  quickly ;  they  should  be 
done  in  a  wire  basket,  then  drained  and  served  with  fried~ 
parsley. 

Marrow  Patties. — Take  some  beef  marrow,  melt  it  and 
strain  it  through  a  sieve;  wrhen  it  is  cold  add  to  it  two 
eggs  thoroughly  beaten,  some  bread  crumbs  finely  crum- 
bled, and  soaked  in  bouillon  or  stock,  and  lastly  a  very 
little  grated  parsley,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  soupgon  of  nut- 
meg;  if  still  too  thin,  add  flour  enough  to  thicken  it; 
bake  in  open  shells  of  puff  paste. 

Stuffed  JPeppers. — Six  (or  more)  large  green  peppers, 
perfectly  fresh ;  cut  off  the  tops  and  carefully  scrape 
out  the  inside ;  scrape  off  the  inside  of  the  tops  as 
well,  being,  however,  particularly  careful  to  preserve 
the  shape  of  the  pepper.  Prepare  the  filling  as  fol- 
lows: Chop  very  fine  some  cold  chicken  or  veal,  and  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  small  red-pepper  pod,  a  little 
white  pepper,  salt,  melted  butter,  and  enough  milk  to 
moisten  all ;  stir  continually  until  it  is  boiling  hot;  then 
put  a  teaspoonful  of  boiling  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice 
into  each  pepper ;  fill  quickly  with  the  hot  mince ;  put  on 
the  top  of  the  pepper ;  arrange  in  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 
This  is  an  easy,  pretty,  and  appetizing  entree. 


MISCELLANEOUS   SAVORY  DISHES.  547 

Spaniards  a  la  Grecque ;  or,  Spanish  Onions  a  la 
Grecque. — Peel  off  the  outer  skins ;  cut  off  the  pointed 
ends  ;  put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  place  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  on  the  place  where  the  point 
has  been  cut  off ;  cover  them  with  a  plate  or  dish,  and  let 
them  bake  not  less  than  three  hours.  They  will  throw 
out  a  delicious  gravy. 

tJPepperpot  (India  receipt).  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cassareepe  to  a  pint  of  good  stock;  add  pepper,  6alt, 
onions,  chopped  line,  ochra,"  and  thyme ;  the  first  meat 
put  into  the  pot  should  be  salt  pork  ;  add  goose,  duck, 
chicken,  game,  or  any  kind  of  meat ;  the  first  day  stew 
for  two  hours,  the  next  day  until  the  meat  is  reduced  to 
rags. 

Pie  a  la  Sonne  lienagere. — Slices  of  cold  beef,  mutton, 
chicken,  and  bacon  ;  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  with  sliced 
apples,  and  a  very  little  chopped  onion  placed  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  the  meat ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar;  pour  in  some  good  stock; 
cover  with  short  crust,  and  bake  slowly. 

Potato  Pie. — Skin  some  potatoes;  cut  them  into  slices, 
and  season  them ;  also  some  mutton,  beef,  or  veal ;  put 
layers  of  potatoes  and  meat ;  add  enough  stock  to  moisten 
all ;  cover  with  short  crust  and  bake. 

Podovies,  or  Beef  Patties. — Shred  underdone  dressed 
beef  with  a  little  fat ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
chopped  onion;  make  a  plain  paste,  roll  it  thin,  cut  into 
small  squares,  fill  with  the  mince,  fold  over  and  bake  to  a 
nice  brown. 

Giblet  Pie. — After  very  nicely  cleaning  geese  or  duck 
giblets,  stew  them  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  chopped 
onion,  celery,  black  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs 


548  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

until  nearly  done ;  let  them  grow  cold,  and  chop  up  with 
them  some  cold  chicken  and  ham  or  veal;  line  a  deep 
pie-dish  with  short  crust,  and  till  with  alternate  layers 
of  the  giblets  and  mince,  sliced  potatoes,  and  sliced  ap- 
ples, pouring  over  all  the  liquors  in  which  the  giblets 
were  stewed;  cover  with  paste  with  an  aperture  in  the 
top  and  bake;  the  moment  the  pie  is  withdrawn  from  the 
oven,  pour  into  the  aperture  a  teacupful  of  good  cream  ; 
serve  hot. 

Calf  s-head  Pie. — One  calf's  head  boiled  an  hour,  and, 
when  cold,  sliced  ;  two  pounds  of  beef,  boiled  down  to  a 
jelly;  salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Put  some  seasoning  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  calf's  head,  then  the  beef  jelly,  and  more  spice ;  another 
layer  of  calf's  head  and  jelly,  and  so  on,  the  last  layer  be- 
ing the  calf's  tongue,  sliced  thin ;  cover  with  good  paste 
and  bake. 

Havioli  of  Herbs. — Take  a  quantity  of  beet  tops,  wash 
them  carefully,  throwing  aside  the  coarser  leaves ;  then  boil 
them  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  when  cooked, 
throw  instantly  into  very  cold  water,  and  after  a  moment 
or  two  press  them  dry  with  a  clean  cloth ;  when  dry,  they 
should  be  chopped  as  finely  as  possible ;  then  put  them 
in  an  earthen  stewpan,  adding  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  two  and  a  half  ounces 
of  cream  cheese,  or  curds,  a  little  salt,  and  a  soupgon  of 
nutmeg;  let  all  cook  together  for  a  few  moments,  stirring 
steadily  all  the  time;  then  place  on  the  moulding-board 
(which  should  be  well  floured),  and,  after  flouring  your 
hands,  proceed  to  mould  the  ravioli  into  small  oval  balls, 
the  size  of  a  large  Spanish  olive;  be  particularly  careful 
to  flour  them  well ;  when  all  are  moulded,  drop  them,  a 
few  at  a  time,  into  boiling  broth ;  watch  closely,  and  take 
them  out  with  a  perforated  strainer  the  moment  they 
assume  a  light-brown  color ;  drain  for  a  few  moments, 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  549 

and  serve  on  a  very  hot  dish,  with  tomato  sauce  poured 
over  them. 

Risotto,  with  Oysters.  —  Four  dozen  small  oysters, 
stewed ;  one  onion,  chopped  fine ;  one  half  pound  of 
rice,  picked,  washed,  soaked  for  an  hour,  and  drained 
dry. 

Fry  the  chopped  onion  to  a  light  brown  in  butter,  then 
remove  the  onion,  and  throw  the  rice  into  the  frying-pan 
for  a  moment  only,  shaking  it  about  well ;  then  put  it 
with  the  onion  into  a  saucepan,  covering  it  with  the  liquor 
in  which  the  oysters  have  been  cooked ;  allow  this  to 
come  to  a  boil,  then  withdraw  the  rice  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  cover  it  closely,  and  cook  slowly ;  when  tender,  drain, 
add  the  oysters,  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter;  toss  about  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly 
melted,  then  arrange  in  a  pyramid  on  a  very  hot  dish ; 
dust  thickly  with  fried  bread  crumbs,  and  serve. 

Risotto  a  la  Nea/politaine. — One  onion,  chopped  fine, 
and  fried  lightly  in  butter;  one  large  tomato,  peeled, 
seeded,  and  sliced;  one  pound  of  good  rice,  picked, 
washed,  and  dried ;  a  few  button  mushrooms,  chopped 
fine  ;  a  few  boiled  shrimps  chopped  fine ;  four  or  five 
handfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  a  tiny  pinch  of 
cayenne. 

Put  the  onion  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter,  add 
the  rice,  tomato,  and  some  bouillon,  thrice  as  much  bouillon 
as  rice ;  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then  take  from  the  fire 
and  sift  in  the  cheese  ;  add  also  the  mushrooms,  shrimps, 
and  seasoning ;  cover  closely,  cook  for  two  minutes,  then 
serve  in  a  very  hot  dish. 

Risotto  for  Epicures,  or  Risotto  con  Rigaglia.  —  One 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  ;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  melted 
beef  marrow;  five  ounces  of  good,  fresh  butter;  three  to 
four  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  one  half  pound 


550  THE   UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

of  the  beet  rice,  washed  and  dried  ;  three  smoked  sau- 
sages. 

Put  the  onion  and  beef  marrow  into  a  saucepan,  and  af- 
ter two  or  three  minutes  add  the  rice,  covering  it  to  three 
times  its  height  in  the  saucepan  with  good  bouillon  ;  add 
the  sausages,  and  cook  over  rather  a  strong  lire  until  the 
rice  is  almost  dry ;  then  take  it  from  the  lire,  remove  the 
sausages,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  cheese,  also  two  or 
three  teaspoonf  uls  of  strong  stock ;  cover  closely  and  set 
in  a  warm  place.  Meanwhile  cook  some  cocks'  combs, 
chicken  livers,  and  kidneys  in  a  little  salt  and  water  until 
tender;  these  form  the  rigaglia ;  peel  two  or  three  black 
truffles,  and  put  the  peel  into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  glass- 
ful of  Spanish  wine  and  a  quarter  of  a  glassful  of  Marsala 
or  Madeira;  add  a  little  parsley  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs;  cook  this  until  reduced  to  one  third  of  the  original 
quantity ;  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  strong  stock;  a  little  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper ;  boil  up  once,  strain,  and  return  to  the  fire 
with  the  truffles  cut  into  quarters ;  cook  the  truffles  in  the 
sauce  for  five  minutes;  then  drain  the  rigaglia,  pour  the 
sauce  and  truffles  over  them,  cover  closely,  and  set  the  ves- 
sel containing  the  rigaglia  within  another  full  of  boiling 
water;  when  the  rice  is  ready,  arrange  it  in  a  circle  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  dust  thickly  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  pour  the  rigaglia  and  sauce  in  the  centre ;  slice  the 
sausages  and  arrange  round  the  rice.  This  is  a  delicious 
dish;  but  there  are  many  inexpensive  risottos  which  are 
nearly  as  good.  Risottos,  indeed,  may  be  varied  ad  infi- 
nitum to  suit  the  taste  and  purse  of  the  mistress  of  the 
house. 

Scotch  Woodcock.  —  Toast  two  slices  of  bread;  butter 
them  on  each  side;  wash,  scrape,  chop  very  finely,  and 
pound  in  a  mortar  four  or  five  anchovies ;  spread  this  paste 
on  the  pieces  of  toast  and  put  them  together,  the  paste  be- 
tween them  ;  cut  into  small  squares ;  make  a  sauce  with 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  5  51 

the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a 
piece  of  butter ;  heat  and  pour  over  the  toast ;  serve  very 
hot. 

Dutch  Cream  Toast.  —  Take  the  remainder  of  some 
cooked  ham,  i.  e.,  the  bone  with  the  fragments  adhering  to 
it ;  remove  all  fat,  and  dry  it  in  the  oven  until  it  will  grate 
like  Parmesan  cheese ;  toast,  butter,  and  cut  some  bread 
as  directed  above ;  then  spread  it  with  the  grated  ham  and 
fold  it ;  make  a  sauce  with  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs, 
a  gill  and  a  half  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  more 
grated  ham ;  heat,  stir,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
toast,  which  must  previously  have  been  placed  in  a.  hot 
dish. 

Fried  Lentils  or  Beans. — One  pint  of  plain  boiled  len- 
tils ;  one  ounce  of  chopped  onion  ;  two  ounces  of  drip- 
ping. 

Fry  the  onion  brown  in  the  dripping;  add  the  lentils; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  the  tiniest  pinch  of  brown 
sugar ;  mix  and  toss  well,  brown  thoroughly,  and  serve  hot. 

-  Baked  Beans  or  Lentils.  —  One  pint  of  dried  beans; 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork ;  two  quarts  of  cold 
water. 

Put  the  beans  and  pork  into  the  cold  water,  bring  them 
to  a  boil,  and  boil  slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes  ;  then 
put  the  beans,  with  about  a  teacupful  of  the  water  they 
were  boiled  in,  into  an  open  jar ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  molasses;  mix 
and  toss  well,  lay  the  pork  on  top,  and  bake  for  two  hours 
or  longer.  The  liquor  in  wrhich  the  beans  were  boiled  will, 
with  a  little  soup  meat,  make  an  excellent  broth. 

Boiled  Lentils  or  Beans. — One  pint  of  yellow  lentils; 
three  quarts  of  cold  water;  one  ounce  of  dripping;  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt;  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 


552  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Wash  the  lentils  well  in  cold  water,  and  put  them  over 
the  fire  with  the  other  ingredients ;  boil  slowly  until  ten- 
der, that  is,  about  three  hours ;  drain  off  the  water ;  add 
one  ounce  of  batter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  mix 
and  toss  well,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Lentils. — One  pint  of  plain  boiled  lentils ;  enough 
broth  or  pot  liquor  to  cover  them  ;  one  ounce  of  chopped 
onion ;  two  ounces  of  beef  dripping ;  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  chopped  parsley. 

Stew  all  together  gently  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
hot. 

Haslet  Stew. — One  fresh  pig's  or  sheep's  haslet ;  one 
ounce  of  salt  pork,  sliced  fine;  one  onion,  chopped  fine; 
one  dessertspoonful  of  salt;  half  a  saltspoonful  of  black 
pepper ;  two  bay  leaves ;  two  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  one  sprig 
of  thyme;  one  ounce  of  flour;  one  gill  of  vinegar;  half 
a  pint  of  cold  gravy ;  six  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in 
dice. 

Wash  the  liver,  heart,  and  lights ;  chop  into  inch  pieces  ; 
stew  gently  for  two  hours,  and  serve  with  roasted  pow- 
dered parsley  sprinkled  on  top. 

Scotch  Crowdie. — One  pound  of  oatmeal ;  four  quarts 
of  pot  liquor;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt;  one  saltspoonful 
of  pepper ;  one  ounce  of  butter. 

Boil  the  oatmeal  in  the  pot  liquor  one  hour,  stirring 
often ;  season,  stir,  and  serve. 

Oatmeal  and  Pease. — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  bacon 
or  pork  cut  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square ;  two  sliced 
onions ;  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per; one  dessertspoonful  of  brown  sugar;  one  pint  of 
dried  pease ;  three  quarts  of  cold  water ;  enough  oatmeal 
to  thicken. 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES.  553 

Fry  the  bacon  and  onions  together  for  ten  minutes  with- 
out burning ;  add  the  seasoning,  the  cold  water,  and  the 
pease ;  boil  the  whole  gently  until  the  pease  become  quite 
soft ;  then  stir  in  enough  oatmeal  to  thicken,  simmer  twen- 
ty minutes  longer,  and  serve  hot. 

Cheese  Pudding. — Two  quarts  of  water,  seasoned  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt;  one  pound  of  yellow  Indian 
meal,  sifted ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese. 

Stir  the  Indian  meal  into  the  boiling  water ;  when  well 
mixed  stir  in  the  cheese ;  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
often ;  put  into  a  greased  baking-pan,  sprinkle  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Stewed  Tripe. — One  pound  of  tripe  cut  into  small  pieces ; 
half  a  quart  of  potatoes ;  half  a  quart  of  onions ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fine  flour. 

Put  the  tripe,  potatoes,  and  onions  in  layers  in  a  pot; 
season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  mix  the  flour  with  a  pint  of  water, 
and  pour  over  the  stew;  add  gradually  two  pints  of  wa- 
ter, put  the  pot  over  the  fire,  and  boil  gently  one  hour  and 
a  half. 

Pease  Pudding. — Soak  one  pint  of  dried  pease  in  cold 
water  overnight,  tie  loosely  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  boil  two 
hours  in  pot  liquor  or  water,  putting  them  into  it  cold  and 
bringing  them  gradually  to  a  boil ;  drain  them,  and  press 
through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  season  with  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  one  ounce  of  but- 
ter, and  one  egg ;  mix,  tie  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  boil  half 
an  hour  longer ;  serve  hot. 

Ignachi  a  la  Romana. — Make  a  plain  boiled  pudding  of 
Hecker's  farina,  with  milk  and  eggs  in  the  usual  propor- 
tions, but  without  sugar  or  flavoring ;  while  still  soft,  and 


554  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

before  it  forms,  pour  it  into  a  large  shallow  dish ;  when 
cold  cut  into  small  lozenges,  and  pack  in  layers  in  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  thickly  with 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  dotting,  also,  with  butter ;  sift 
grated  cheese  over  the  top,  and  bake  brown  in  a  quick 
oven. 


MISCELLANEOUS    DESSERTS. 

Souffle  of  Chestnuts. — Roast  three  dozen  large  Spanish 
chestnuts ;  peel  them  carefully,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  ; 
pass  the  puree  thus  obtained  through  a  sieve;  then  return 
to  the  mortar  with  one  half  its  weight  of  sugar,  and,  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  work  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  then 
mould  into  little  balls  the  size  of  a  large  Spanish  chestnut; 
roll  each  ball  in  beaten  white  of  egg ;  drain  for  a  few 
minutes  on  a  sieve;  then  roll  in  crystallized  sugar;  let 
them  stand  ten  minutes;  then  roll  again  in  white  of  egg 
and  crystallized  sugar;  arrange  on  buttered  paper,  at  some 
distance  from  each  other ;  cook  in  a  slow  oven  twenty-five 
minutes;  when  cold,  arrange  in  a  pyramid  on  a  folded 
napkin. 

Hickory -Nut  Balls. —  Crack  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
good  hickory  nuts ;  pick  out  the  meat,  and  dry  in  the 
oven  ;  then  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  proceed  as  above.  You 
may  substitute  brown  sugar  for  the  white  in  preparing  the 
hickory-nut  balls,  if  you  choose. 

Aniseed  Balls. — The  yolks  of  five  eggs;  sifted  sugar 
and  sifted  flour,  enough  to  work  to  a  paste ;  a  pinch  of 
aniseed. 

Beat  first  the  sugar  and  then  the  flour  to  a  paste ;  add 
the  flavoring,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  paper ; 
then  put  into  a  buttered  mould  and  bake. 

Baited  Apples,  No.  1.— Wash,  and  wipe  dry,  five  firm 
apples,  and  cut  out  the  blossom  ends ;  pack  them  in  a  large 


556  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

pud  ding- dish ;  pour  a  cupful  of  water  over  them,  cover 
the  dish  closely,  set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  steam  until 
they  are  tender,  and  crack  open  ;  then  put  into  a  cold  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  the  juice  left  in  the  baking-dish  ;  serve 
cold,  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Baked  Apples,  No.  2. — Pare  very  carefully  and  thinly, 
core,  and  fill  the  hollow  of  the  core  with  loaf  sugar;  dust 
the  apples  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  bake. 

Siberian  Crab  Cheese. — Wipe  the  fruit  with  a  clean,  dry 
cloth,  and  cut  out  all  damaged  parts  with  a  silver  knife  ; 
put  them  in  a  covered  jar  in  a  slow  oven  until  tender;  then 
squeeze  through  coarse  canvas;  weigh  the  pulp,  and  allow 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  to  every  pound 
of  pulp  ;  reboil  for  half  an  hour,  skimming  well ;  put  into 
moulds,  and,  when  cold,  cover  with  brandied  paper. 

Apple  Cake. — Half  a  pound  of  apples,  peeled,  cut,  and 
cored;  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  juice  of  three  lemons, 
and  half  the  rinds  grated. 

Simmer  in  a  stewpan  four  hours,  until  quite  stiff ;  put  in 
mould,  and  eat  cold.  A  larger  quantity  can  be  made,  and 
packed  in  jars,  if  desired ;  cover  with  brandied  tissue 
paper,  and  again  with  white  paper,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place  ;  it  will  be  hard,  like  the  crab  cheese  in  consistency, 
and  is  very  good. 

Coddled  Apples. — Take  large  tart  apples,  wash,  rub  dry, 
peel  thinly  and  delicately,  and  core  them  ;  throw  the  peel 
into  boiling  water;  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  stewpan  the 
weight  of  the  apples  in  the  best  loaf  sugar,  and  then  strain 
the  water  in  which  the  peel  has  been  thrown,  and  pour 
over  the  loaf  sugar  enough  of  this  water  to  barely  float 
the  apples  ;  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  boil  the  sugar 
down  to  a  clear  syrup  ;  then  put  in  the  apples ;  the  stew- 
pan should  be  sufficiently  large  to  prevent  the  apples  from 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  557 

touching  each  other ;  put  in  with  the  apples  the  rind  of  a 
large  lemon  prepared  in  the  following  manner:  Peel  the 
lemon  thinly  and  delicately,  taking  care  to  preserve  the 
peel  unbroken  ;  then,  with  a  pair  of  sharp  scissors,  cut  the 
peel  into  long,  very  thin  strings,  taking  care,  as  before,  to 
keep  the  length  unbroken  ;  put  this  into  the  saucepan 
simultaneously  with  the  apples,  and  cook  until  tender;  eat 
cold.     This  is  the  best  way  of  cooking  apples. 

Condi  of  Apples,  Pears,  Apricots,  etc. — Boil  some  rice 
in  milk ;  add,  when  cooked,  a  little  fresh  butter,  vanilla, 
or  other  flavoring,  and  powdered  sugar  to  taste;  also,  yolk 
of  egg  in  sufficient  quantity  to  color  the  rice  yellow ; 
then  remove  from  the  fire,  arrange  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dish,  put  a  pyramid  of  apples,  pears,  or  other  stewed  fruit 
in  the  middle,  cover  the  ring  of  rice  with  apricot  marma- 
lade, and  serve. 

Apples  with  Butter  {Cuisiniere  Boargeoise). —  Take 
large,  firm,  tart  apples,  peel  and  core  them  carefully,  cut 
them  in  half;  butter  a  large,  wide  pie-dish,  and  arrange  in 
it  small  squares  or  rounds  of  white  bread  (stale)  about  half 
an  inch  thick ;  each  round  or  square  should  be  exactly  the 
size  of  one  of  the  apple  halves;  when  the  mosaic  of  bread 
is  neatly  fitted  to  the  dish,  arrange  the  halved  apples  on 
the  bread;  fill  the  hollow  of  each  apple  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  place  on  the  sugar  a  small  piece  of  very  fresh 
butter;  cook  in  a  very  slow  oven;  watch  the  apples  care- 
fully, and  as  fast  as  the  sugar  and  butter  are  absorbed  re- 
new them  until  the  apples  are  tender,  and  well  cooked  ; 
serve  hot  in  the  same  dish. 

Apples  with  Bice  {Cuisiniere  Bourgeoise). — Butter  a 
wide  pie-dish,  and  place  on  it  a  layer,  about  an  inch  thick, 
of  cold,  boiled  rice,  in  which  you  have  beaten  up  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  apple  jelly ;  arrange  on  this  bed  of  rice  a  close 
layer  of  peeled,  cored,  halved,  and  half-stewed  apples ;  put 


558  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

into  a  slow  oven,  and,  when  the  apples  are  quite  cooked, 
fill  the  hollow  of  each  with  apricot  or  other  marmalade ; 
serve  hot. 

Apples  with  Meringue. — Make  a  pyramid  of  coddled 
apples  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  cover  it  with  a  meringue 
made  by  beating  up,  very  stiff,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little  zest  of 
lemon  ;  cover  the  pyramid  carefully  and  completely  with 
meringue  /  dust  the  meringue  with  powdered  crystallized 
sugar  ;  put  into  a  gentle  oven  to  brown,  and  serve  as  soon 
as  lightly  browned. 

Apples  Flambautes  (Ouisimere  Normande). — Peel  and 
core  some  firm,  small  apples,  and  stew  with  loaf  sugar,  a 
little  lemon  peel,  and  water  enough  to  keep  them  from 
burning ;  when  tender,  but  still  firm,  take  them  carefully 
out  of  the  saucepan,  and  arrange  thera  in  a  pyramid  on 
a  large  pie-dish  ;  boil  down  the  syrup  in  the  saucepan  un- 
til it  is  very  thick ;  pour  it  over  the  apples  ;  dust  the  whole 
pyramid  thickly  witli  powdered  sugar,  and  pour  rum  over 
all;  just  before  setting  the  dish  on  the  table  set  fire  to  the 
rum ;  serve  blazing.  This  is  an  old  Norman  dish,  and  is 
very  good. 

Compote  of  Apples  or  Pears,  with  Butter. — Peel,  core, 
and  halve  the  fruit,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning ;  loaf  sugar  to  taste  ;  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  egg ;  cook  on  a  slow  fire  until  tender. 

Croutes  of  Peaches. — Butter  a  large,  shallow  pie-dish, 
and  cover  it  completely  with  slices  of  stale  white  bread 
fitted  closely  together,  place  upon  these  large  ripe  peaches 
cut  in  half,  and  stoned  ;  fill  the  hollow  left  by  each  stone 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  very  fresh  butter ; 
then  cook  in  a  very  slow  oven,  watching  carefully,  and 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  559 

renewing  the  sugar  as  it  is  absorbed  ;  serve  hot  in  the  dish 
in  which  the  peaches  have  been  cooked. 

Croutes  of  Plums. — Proceed  precisely  as  above. 

Croutes  of  Apricots. — Proceed  as  above. 

Macedoine  of  Fruit. — Have  ready  two  dome-shaped 
fluted  moulds ;  one  must  be  smaller  than  the  other,  so  as 
to  leave  a  vacancy  of  three  inches  between  the  inner  and 
outer  mould ;  the  inner  mould  must  also  be  furnished  with 
clamps  at  the  edges,  which  will  hold  it  firmly  in  position  ; 
place  the  larger  mould  on  at  least  eighteen  pounds  of 
cracked  ice  ;  then  carefully  hook  the  other  mould  in  place 
and  pour  into  the  larger  mould  enough  clear,  transparent 
jelly  to  fill  the  vacancy  between  the  two  moulds ;  the  jelly, 
of  course,  may  be  of  any  color  you  prefer ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
quite  hard  and  firm  fill  the  inner  mould  three  quarters  full 
of  warm  water ;  this  will  enable  you  to  detach  it  instantly 
and  easily  from  the  surrounding  jelly  ;  have  ready,  well- 
picked  and  cleaned,  from  twenty  to  twenty-four  fine 
strawberries,  as  many  more  very  large  strawberries,  an 
equal  quantity  of  white  raspberries,  and  of  white  and  red 
currants  (strung) ;  place  in  the  dome  of  the  jelly  a  layer 
of  white  currants  ;  surround  and  place  on  these  giant 
strawberries  ;  then  a  layer  of  white  raspberries ;  then  pour 
on  some  melted  jelly  ;  as  soon  as  the  jelly  hardens  proceed 
to  put  in  layers  of  fruit  as  before,  alternating  the  colors 
and  quality  of  the  fruit ;  finish  with  a  wreath  of  the  giant 
raspberries,  surrounding  a  mosaic  of  red  and  white  straw- 
berries ;  pour  in  as  much  clear  jelly  as  the  mould  will  hold; 
put  on  a  tightly  fitting  cover ;  pile  up  the  ice,  and  leave 
the  mould  ;  when  the  jelly  is  hard  and  firm  plunge  the 
form  for  a  moment  in  boiling  water,  and  turn  out  the 
macedoine  on  a  cold  plate ;  it  is  the  prettiest  possible  des- 
sert, and  easily  made,  although  the  directions  are  neces- 
sarily prolix;  it  may  be  varied  at  discretion,  and  may  be 
made  in  winter  with  preserved  fruits. 


560  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Rhode  Island  Apple  Slump. — Twelve  large  sour  apples, 
pared,  cored,  and  quartered  ;  three  cupfnls  of  molasses;  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Line  the  sides  of  a  baking-kettle  with  crust  made  from 
raised  dough,  or  plain  crust  made  light  with  soda  or  cream 
of  tartar;  allow  enough  crust  to  fold  over  the  top;  put 
the  apples  in  ;  sprinkle  them  with  the  spice ;  then  pour  in 
the  molasses,  fold  the  crust  from  the  sides  over  the  top, 
and  cook  for  half  an  hour  over  a  moderate  fire. 

Apple  Pudding,  known  as  Friar's  Omelet.  —  Grated 
rind  of  one  large  lemon  and  juice  of  two  added  to  the 
cooked  apples;  twelve  large  apples,  stewed  to  a  pulp;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  stirred  in  while  the  apples 
are  hot ;  sugar  enough  to  make  it  quite  sweet,  stirred  in 
while  the  apples  are  hot ;  four  eggs  well  beaten,  stirred  in 
when  the  apples  are  cold ;  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  stirred 
in  when  the  apples  are  cold.    - 

Butter  well  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  large  baking-dish, 
and  line  very  thickly  with  bread  crumbs;  pour  in  the  ap- 
ple mixture,  spread  bread  crumbs  thickly  on  top,  and  stick 
over  several  bits  of  butter ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
serve  cold. 

Apple  Stephen. — One  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine  ;  two 
pounds  of  sifted  flour ;  eight  large  tart  apples,  cored  and 
sliced ;  one  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  dried  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried  ;  one  ounce  of 
candied  citron,  snipped  fine  ;  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  grated  ; 
the  juice  of  the  lemon,  also  ;  a  little  ground  cinnamon,  and 
a  few  whole  cloves. 

Mix  the  suet  and  the  flour  with  cold  water  into  a  mel- 
low paste;  roll  it  well,  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  earthenware 
baking-pan,  which  must  first  be  well  greased  with  suet ; 
then  mix  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  apples,  to- 
gether, and  put  layers  of  apples  alternately  with  the  other 
ingredients  until  the  dish  is  full;  close  the  paste  over  the 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  561 

top  as  you  do  for  apple  dumpling,  sprinkling  brown  sugar 
over  the  paste ;  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  four  or 
five  hours,  basting  it  every  few  minutes  with  the  syrup 
which  appears  round  the  edges;  when  done  turn  it  out  on 
a  flat,  hot  dish,  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Apples. — Peel  and  core  some  large,  fine  apples ; 
cut  in  thick  slices  and  soak  for  two  or  three  hours  in  rum, 
sweet  cider,  or  red  wine,  adding  powdered  cinnamon,  loaf 
sugar,  and  spices  to  taste ;  then  drain,  roll  in  beaten  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  fry  quickly  in  butter,  drain,  dust  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

Fried  Peaches. — Peel,  stone,  and  quarter;  soak  for  two 
hours  in  wine  (white)  and  sugar,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Fried  Figs. — Peel  the  figs,  which  should  be  perfectly 
fresh  and  not  too  ripe ;  soak  for  two  or  three  hours  in  ro- 
solio ;  drain,  cut  in  two,  dust  lightly  with  fine  flour,  and 
fry  quickly  in  butter ;  dust  thickly  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  serve. 

Fried  Apricots. — Take  large  apricots,  not  too  ripe  ;  peel, 
stone,  and  quarter;  roll  them  in  powdered  sugar  and  ar- 
range in  a  deep  dish,  dusting  again  with  powdered  sugar; 
they  should  remain  for  some  hours;  then  roll  in  beaten 
egg,  dust  with  flour,  and  fry  quickly  in  butter;  dust  again 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

Damson  Cheese. — Gather  the  fruit  when  full  ripe,  and 
to  every  peck  of  damsons  allow  four  pounds  of  lump  sug- 
ar ;  stone  the  fruit  and  set  it  in  an  oven,  and  let  it  remain 
until  soft ;  when  cold  rub  it  through  a  colander  or  coarse 
hair  sieve ;  then  put  it  into  a  preserving-pan,  and  boil  it 
quickly  for  half  an  hour;  after  which  add  the  blanched 
kernels  and  the  sugar,  and  boil  together  half  an  hour  long- 
er, stirring  steadily  all  the  time ;  wet  the  moulds  with 

24* 


562  THE   UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

brandy  or  vinegar;  put  the  cheese,  when  cold,  into  the 
moulds ;  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  vinegar,  and  keep  in 
a  dry  place ;  or  else  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  white  of 
egg- 
Apricot  Cheese. — Pare  and  stone  the  apricots,  and  allow 
a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pound  of  apricots ;  wet  the 
sugar  a  very  little,  and  boil  fruit  and  sugar  quickly  ;  blanch 
the  kernels  and  put  into  the  cheese;  thirty  minutes  will 
boil  it ;  when  cold  put  into  pots  or  moulds  as  above. 

Tipsy  Charlotte. — Proceed  as  for  Charlotte  a  V  Orange, 
substituting  for  the  orange  juice  two  spoonfuls  of  orange 
or  other  wine;  cut  the  top  off  a  large,  stale  sponge  cake ; 
dig  out  the  inside,  leaving  bottom  and  sides  an  inch  thick  ; 
sprinkle  freely  with  sherry  or  Marsala  wine;  pour  in  the 
cream,  replace  the  top  (drenching  it  also  with  wine),  and 
serve. 

Apple  Charlotte. — Four  large  tart  apples,  peeled,  cored, 
boiled, and  beaten  to'a  pulp;  one  egg,  well  beaten;  grated 
peel  of  a  lemon  and  the  juice ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Butter  a  mould  of  any  shape,  line  it  carefully  and  thick- 
ly with  rolled  and  grated  bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the  apple, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  half  an  inch  thick,  and 
bake  to  a  light  brown. 

Or,  you  may  line  the  mould  with  thin  slices  of  stale 
white  bread,  buttered,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 

Peach  Charlotte. — Proceed  as  above,  substituting  stewed 
dried  peaches  for  the  apple,  and  orange  juice  and  grated 
orange  peel  for  the  lemon. 

Fresh  Peach  Charlotte.- — Line  a  brick-shaped  mould 
with  slices  of  sponge  cake  a  la  Virginie,  and  fill  with  cut- 
up  and  sugared  peaches  and  the  cream  russe  (unflavored). 
The  russe  and  peaches  should  be  beaten  together  long 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  563 

and  well  before  being  put  into  the  mould ;  then  set  in  a 
cold  place,  and  turn  out  just  before  serving. 

Charlotte- Busse  a  V  Orange. — One  pint  of  good  cream  ; 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  the  utmost ;  a  quarter 
of  a  box  of  gelatine ;  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  brandy ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  as  little  water  as  possible ;  beat 
the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  sweeten  it ;  then  beat  in 
the  stiff  egg  froth  ;  then  beat  in,  drop  by  drop,  the  dis- 
solved gelatine;  then  add  the  brandy  and  orange  juice ; 
line  a  glass  dish  with  macaroons  steeped  in  wine,  pour  in 
the  Charlotte-Russe,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  congeal. 

Florida  Charlotte  -Biisse. —  One  quart  of  sweet,  rich 
cream ;  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  scalded ;  one  ounce  of 
American  gelatine,  dissolved  in  tepid  water ;  vanilla  fla- 
voring to  taste  ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  the  cream  to  a  froth,  and  flavor  it  with  vanilla; 
stir  the  gelatine  into  the  milk,  but  be  careful  not  to  leave 
it  too  long  on  the  Are  lest  the  milk  should  curdle;  strain 
it,  add  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  then,  when  cool,  out 
not  stiff,  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  ;  have  ready  fluted 
moulds,  buttered,  and  lined  with  lady-fingers ;  pour  in  the 
mixture,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  when  cold  turn  out,  and 
serve. 

Charlotte- Busse,  Plain. — One  quart  of  cream,  whipped 
to  a  froth,  and  drained  through  a  sieve;  one  pint  of  un- 
clarified  gelatine,  melted  and  strained  ;  flavoring  to  taste ; 
sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  the  melted  gelatine  into  the  whipped  cream,  stir- 
ring and  beating  continually  until  all  is  smooth ;  have 
ready  moulds  prepared  as  above ;  pour  in  the  cream,  and, 
when  cold,  proceed  as  above. 

Gooseberry  Cups  (Meg  Dodd). — Pick,  wash,  and  wipe 


564  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

dry  fine  large  gooseberries,  and  simmer  over  a  slow  fire 
until  tender  enough  to  pulp  through  a  sieve,  then  add  loaf 
sugar  to  taste  (bearing  in  mind  that  they  should  be  very 
sweet);  replace  on  the  fire,  and  cook  slowly  until  quite 
thick ;  add  half  a  cupful  of  melted  gelatine,  strain,  pour 
into  custard  cups,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Gooseberry  Cake  (Meg  Dodd). — Three  pounds  of  finest 
white  flour,  dried  and  sifted ;  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fresh 
butter ;  a  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar ;  six  eggs, 
yolks  only;  six  teaspoonfuls  of  white  wine;  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  liqueur  d?  anisette;  two  grated  nutmegs;' 
rose  water  to  taste ;  one  pound  of  ripe  gooseberries, 
picked,  washed,  and  dredged. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks,  then  the  wine,  liqueur,  and  spice  ;  then  the  flour,  then 
the  rose  water,  and,  lastly,  the  gooseberries. 

Gooseberry  Cheese.  —  One  quart  of  gooseberries ;  one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar;  one  pound  of  fresh  butter; 
four  eggs,  yolks  only,  well  beaten ;  macaroons,  dried  and 
rolled  to  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks, 
then  the  rolled  macaroons  in  sufficient  quantity  to  bind 
all  together ;  then  the  gooseberries,  which  should  be  pre- 
viously prepared  by  having  boiling  water  thrown  upon 
them,  and  then  mashed  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve  ;  mix 
and  beat  all  well  together. 

Currant  Grant. — Two  teacupfuls  of  rice,  washed  and 
picked  ;  one  stick  of  cinnamon ;  sugar  to  taste;  half  a  pint 
of  fresh  currant  juice. 

Put  the  rice  and  cinnamon  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle, 
with  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  let  it  simmer  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  until  the  rice  bursts ;  sweeten  to  taste  with 
powdered  sugar;  add  the  currant  juice,  let  it  come  almost 
to  a  boil,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  porcelain 
moulds  wet  with  cold  water;  serve  cold  with  cream. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  565 

Cocoanut  Marmalade. — One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut ; 
one  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar;  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water ;  two  eggs. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  clarify  it  with  whites  of  the 
eggs  until  clear,  then  add  the  cocoanut,  which  must  cook 
until  transparent ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  it  ceases 
to  boil  throw  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  replace  on  the 
fire,  and  heat  only  until  like  thick  custard ;  when  cooling, 
add  a  little  rose  or  peach  water;  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top, 
and  serve  like  custard,  in  small  cups. 

Almond  Marmalade. — One  pound  of  almonds,  blanched 
and  powdered  to  paste;  one  quart  of  water;  one  pound 
of  loaf  sugar;  yolks  of  twenty  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Put  the  pounded  almonds  and  water  on  the  fire  with  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and,  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  twenty  eggs,  beaten  light ;  serve  as  above. 

Apple  Citron.  —  Coddle  some  very  green  apples,  rub 
them  through  a  sieve,  and  to  every  pint  of  pulp  add  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  ;  squeeze  the  juice  from 
two  lemons,  and  boil  the  peel  well ;  when  it  is  soft,  take 
away  the  white  inner  lining  of  the  skin,  cut  the  yellow 
rind  into  little  slips  ;  add  them  and  the  juice  to  the  apple, 
and  boil  over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour,  stirring  often  to  pre- 
vent burning. 

Rice  Meringue.— One  quart  of  milk  ;  half  a  cupful  of 
rice;  sugar  to  taste;  small  piece  of  fresh  butter;  whites 
of  eight  eggs. 

Put  the  rice  into  the  milk,  and  let  it  simmer  for  three 
hours,  until  quite  smooth;  then  remove  from  the  fire, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter ; 
stir  until  well  mixed  ;  then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
and  beat  into  the  rice,  adding  also  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
and  the  finely  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish,  and  drop  lightly  on  it  the  whites  of 


566  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

the  remaining  four  eggs,  which  should  previously  have 
been  beaten  to  the  stiffest  possible  froth  with  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  bake  to  a 
light  brown  in  a  slow  oven  ;  eat  cold. 

Philadelphia  Meringue. — The  yolks  of  five  eggs  well 
beaten  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  ;  flavoring  to 
taste;  one  pint  of  rich  cream. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light  with  the  sugar ; 
flavor  to  taste;  heat  a  pint  of  cream  d  oain-marie;  when 
it  begins  to  boil  take  it  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  eggs 
and  sugar;  return  to  the  fire,  and  stir  until  very  thick; 
then  pour  into  a  dish  and  let  it  cool ;  then  beat  the  whites 
of  five  eggs  with  some  powdered  sugar  to  the  stiffest  pos- 
sible froth;  put  this  on  the  cream,  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes  to  dry. 

Omelette  au  Sucre,  or  Sweet  Omelet  (Cuisiniere  JBour- 
geoise). — Six  eggs  beaten  to  the  utmost,  whites  and  yolks 
separately;  when  both  whites  and  yolks  are  well  beaten, 
beat  into  the  yolks  powdered  sugar  and  zest  "of  lemon  to 
taste;  then  add  the  beaten  whites,  beat  all  together  hard 
and  long,  adding  a  little  sweet  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
put  your  omelet  into  the  pan,  and,  when  it  browns,  dish, 
fold"  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  glaze  with  a  salamander 
(red-hot  iron)  and  serve. 

Omelette  au  Phum  (Cuisiniere  Bourgeois^). — Proceed 
precisely  as  above,  but  just  before  putting  on  the  table 
pour  some  good  old  rum  over  the  omelet,  and  set  it  on 
fire ;  serve  blazing. 

Omelette  aux  Pommes  (Old  Virginie's).  —  Pare,  peel, 
quarter,  and  half  stew  some  nice  tart  apples,  then  prepare 
an  omelet  as  above,  and,  just  before  putting  it  in  the  ome- 
let pan,  stir  the  apple  quarters  well  through  it ;  then  fry, 
fold,  and  dust  with  sugar  as  above. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  567 

Omelette  aux  Confitures,  or  with  Preserve. — Prepare  as 
for  sweet  omelet,  substituting  cream  for  the  milk  ;  when 
you  dish,  put  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  any  preserve  you 
prefer  on  the  omelet ;  then  fold,  and  dust  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Omelette  Souffle,  No.  1  Ouisinilre  Parisienne).  —  Six 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost; 
four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar ;  zest  of  lemon  to  taste. 

When  the  eggs  are  beaten,  beat  the  sugar  into  the  yolks ; 
then  add  the  zest  of  lemon,  then  beat  in  the  whites  very 
lightly;  pour  at  once  into  a  deep  earthen  dish,  well  but- 
tered ;  dust  lightly  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven ;  seven  or  eight  minutes  should  suffice  ;  serve 
in  the  same  dish. 

Omelette  Souffle,  No.  2. — The  yolks  and  whites  of  six 
eggs,  beaten  separately  to  the  utmost;  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  finely  powdered  sugar ;  a  little  peel,  grated  from  the 
surface  of  a  fresh  lemon ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately  until  they  are  a 
very  stiff  froth  ;  then  beat  them  together,  then  beat  in  the 
sugar  and  lemon ;  melt  the  butter  in  a  pan,  pour  in  the 
beaten  eggs,  and  stir  them  until  they  have  absorbed  all 
the  butter  ;  then  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  ;  serve 
as  soon  as  browned.  Omelette  souffle  should  be  taken  di- 
rectly from  the  oven  to  the  table  in  the  dish  in  which  it- 
was  baked. 

Bice  Panada. — Half  a  pound  of  rice ;  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  suet;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt;  one  table- 
spponful  of  sugar;  half  a  pound  of  the  finest  white 
flour,  sifted;  one  quart  of  water;  one  gill  of  molas- 
ses. 

Boil  the  rice,  suet,  and  sugar  fast  in  boiling  water  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  then  mix  well  together  the  flour,  water, 


568  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

and  molasses ;  stir  into  the  boiling  rice,  and  cook  five  min- 
utes. 

Stuffed  Peaches. — Take  large  ripe  peaches,  cut  them  in 
half,  take  out  the  stones,  crack  them,  and  pound  the  ker- 
nels in  a  mortar,  and  mix  smoothly  with  a  little  bread 
crumb  soaked  in  rich  cream,  a  pinch  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon, and  sugar  to  taste ;  place  all  the  peaches  on  a  large, 
shallow,  earthenware  dish,  and  till  the  cavity  left  by  the 
stone  with  the  above-named  mixture,  heaping  it  well  up ; 
in  the  small  spaces  between  the  peaches  place  bits  of  fresh 
butter,  pouring  in,  also,  a  little  white  wine ;  shake  finely 
sifted  powdered  sugar  thickly  and  evenly  over  all ;  finally 
cover  with  a  light,  even  layer  of  finely  grated  and  browned 
bread  crumbs ;  then  place  the  dish  in  the  oven,  and  let 
it  remain  until  the  peaches  begin  to  assume  a  light-red 
color. 

Stuffed  Apricots. — Choose  large,  fine,  ripe  apricots,  and 
treat  in  precisely  the  same  way,  adding  a  few  bitter  al- 
monds to  the  stuffing: 

Stuffed  Apples. — Peel  and  core  large  tart  apples,  and 
stuff  them  with  a  mixture  of  bread  crumb  soaked  in  cream, 
blanched  and  pounded  apple  seeds,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon, 
and  the  same  of  nutmeg  and  a  larger  quantity  of  sugar 
than  you  would  use  for  peaches  or  apricots;  stick  some 
cloves  in  the  apples,  and  arrange  the  apples  in  a  deep 
earthenware  dish,  placing  lumps  of  the  best  quality  of  loaf 
sugar  between  the  different  apples,  and  pouring  a  very 
little  cold  water  into  the  bottom  of  the  dish  ;  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  These  apples  should  be  eaten  cold,  with  a  lit- 
tle cream  flavored  with  lemon  juice;  they  will  be  found 
delicious. 

Stuffed  Pears — Are  treated  in  the  same  way,  using  less 
sugar,  and  putting  a  tiny  pinch  of  cochineal  in  the  baking- 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  569 

dish  in  order  to  give  the  pears  a  fine  red  color.     They 
are  very  good. 

Fried  Plums. — Take  large,  firm  plums,  not  too  ripe ; 
wipe  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  for  half  an  hour;  then  cut 
in  half,  stone,  peel,  and  soak  in  liqueur,  rum,  or  brandy 
for  two  or  three  hours;  then  drain,  roll  in  beaten  egg, 
dust  with  flour,  and  fry  quickly ;  they  should  be  dusted 
thickly  with  powdered  sugar  before  serving. 

Baked  Pears. — Proceed  as  for  "Baked  Apples,  No.  1." 
Or,  if  the  pears  are  large,  cut  in  half,  put  in  a  deep 
dish  with  a  very  little  water,  and  sprinkle  them  with  sug- 
ar and  a  pinch  of  ginger,  cinnamon,  or  cloves;  cover  close- 
ly, and  bake  until  tender. 

Baked  Quinces. — Pare,  quarter,  and  seed  the  quinces ; 
then  stew  them  in  clear  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce 
them  ;  put  into  a  baking-dish  with  half  a  cupful  of  loaf 
sugar  to  every  eight  quinces ;  pour  over  them  the  liquor 
in  which  they  were  boiled,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  one  hour ;  then  take  out  the  quinces  and  put  them 
into  a  covered  dish ;  return  the  syrup  to  the  saucepan  and 
boil  twenty  minutes ;  then  pour  over  the  quinces,  and  set 
them  away  to  cool. 

Stewed  Apples. — Select  fine  juicy  apples,  peel,  and  core; 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and  stew  the  apples  until  they 
are  tender  and  clear ;  then  take  them  out,  put  them  into 
a  deep  dish,  and  cover  them ;  add  to  the  juice  in  the 
saucepan  a  cupful  of  loaf  sugar  for  every  twelve  apples, 
and  boil  it  half  an  hour,  adding  to  the  syrup  a  pinch  of 
mace  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves  just  ten  minutes  before 
taking  it  from  the  fire;  pour  scalding  hot  over  the  ap- 
ples, and  set  them  in  a  cold  place;  eat  ice  cold  with 
cream. 


570  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Stewed  Pears. — One  quart  of  small  ripe  pears,  washed 
and  wiped  dry,  but  not  pared  or  cored ;  half  a  cupful  of 
loaf  sugar. 

Put  the  pears  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender ;  then  add  the  sugar 
and  stew  all  together  ten  minutes;  take  out  the  pears,  lay 
in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep  warm,  add  to  the  syrup  a  little 
ginger  and  a  clove  or  two,  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and 
pour  over  the  fruit  hot. 

Italian  Stewed  Pears. — One  quart  of  small  pears,  peeled, 
but  not  cored ;  half  a  cupful  of  loaf  sugar. 

Proceed  as  above ;  but  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
add  enough  cochineal  to  color  the  pears  and  syrup  a  bright 
red ;  and,  when  the  pears  are  dished,  stew  in  the  syrup  a 
little  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel. 

Pears  Stewed  Brown. — One  quart  of  hard,  tough  pears, 
peeled  and  with  the  blossom  ends  cut  out ;  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  best  quality  ;  a  pinch  of  ginger. 

Stew  as  above  until  very  tender;  then  dish,  cover,  and 
add  to  the  liquor  in  the  saucepan  an  equal  quantity  of 
molasses  and  a  little  ginger ;  boil  half  an  hour,  skim, 
and  return  the  pears  to  the  saucepan ;  stew  all  together 
twenty  minutes.  This  is  really  the  best  way  of  stewing 
pears. 

Souffle  au  Piz. — The  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  six  teaspoon- 
f uls  of  boiled  rice ;  one  piece  of  very  fresh  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg;  lightly  grated  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon;  half  a 
quart  of  milk. 

Stir  all  well  together,  put  on  the  fire,  and  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  mixture  has  boiled  up  once  or 
twice ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  beat  in 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  (already  well  beaten)  and  the  whites 
of  six,  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  powdered 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  taste ;  beat  smoothly  together, 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  571 

and,  if  too  stiff,  add  beaten  white  of  egg  until  it  is  of  the 
proper  consistency  ;  pour  into  a  buttered  mould,  dust  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  twenty  min- 
utes should  suffice;  serve  at  once  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  baked. 

Tot  Fait. — Mix  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  finest  white 
flour  (sifted)  until  you  have  a  stiff  paste  ;  then  reduce  this 
paste  to  a  light  batter  by  adding  a  little  fresh  milk,  and 
white  of  egg,  well  beaten ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  flavor 
with  vanilla,  zest  of  lemon,  or  orange-flower  water ;  when 
the  tot  fait  is  soft,  smooth,  and  light  as  a  feather,  pour  on 
a  buttered  pie-dish,  and  bake  instantly  in  a  quick  oven ; 
serve  as  soon  as  risen  and  browned. 

Tot  Fait  with  Fruit. — Proceed  as  above;  but  before 
sending  the  tot  fait  to  table,  cover  with  a  layer  of  del- 
icate preserve.  This  must  be  done  quickly,  lest  the 
tot  fait  should  fall.  Fresh  fruit,  sugared,  may  also  be 
used. 

Souffle  au  Cafe. — The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten ; 
six  teaspoonfuls  of  potato  flour;  a  piece  of  very  fresh 
butter,  the  size  of  an  egg ;  zest  of  a  lemon ;  half  a  quart 
of  milk,  with  coffee  to  taste. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  smoothly  together ;  then  put 
on  the  fire,  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  mixt- 
ure boils  up  twice ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and,  when  cool, 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  six,  with  sugar  to  taste ;  beat  well  together  and 
pour  into  a  buttered  mould,  cooking  as  for  souffle  au  riz. 
This  receiptmay  be  varied  at  pleasure — for  chocolate  souffle 
or  fruit.     If  properly  made  it  is  very  good. 

Light  Snow  Dessert  Busks,  or  Dampf-Nudeln. — One 
quart  of  the  finest  white  flour,  sifted  ;  enough  yeast  to 
make  it  rise ;   two  tablespoonf uls  of  white  sugar;  pow- 


572  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

dered ;  one  tenth  of  a  quart  of  rich  cream  ;  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  turkey's  egg ;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Make  into  a  very  soft  dough,  cover,  and  let  it  rise  ;  when 
it  has  risen  so  that  it  is  very  light,  dip  out  of  the  dough 
with  a  spoon  pieces  as  large  as  an  egg ;  form  them  into 
balls  with  floured  hands ;  then  put  them  on  a  baking-tin, 
strewn  with  flour,  and  let  them  rise  still  more;  meanwhile 
put  into  a  saucepan  just  enough  milk  to  cover  the  bottom, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  put  the  nudeln 
in  just  half  an  hour  before  you  eat  them;  do  not  put 
them  too  close  together ;  cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and 
put  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot  water  round  the  lid,  so  that  no 
steam  can  escape ;  let  the  nudeln  boil  slowly  until  you 
hear  them  crackle,  which  happens  when  the  milk  has 
evaporated,  and  the  nudeln  begin  to  brown;  then  place 
the  saucepan  on  one  side  of^  the  stove,  uncover  it,  and 
when  the  nudeln  are  nicely  browned  on  the  bottom  take 
them  out  and  place  them  on  a  round  hot  dish.  Make  a 
sauce  of  boiling  cream  or  milk ;  beat  up  in  it  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  sweeten  to  taste  ;  serve 
in  a  sauce-boat. 

RIPE    FRUIT    FOR    DESSERT. 

General  Pules. — Berries  ought  always  to  be  picked  over 
very  carefully,  but  should  never  be  washed  or  sugared  be- 
fore being  served ;  arrange  on  a  bed  of  fresh  leaves,  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted ;  serve  powdered  sugar 
and  cream  with  berries  of  all  kinds. 

Peaches,  Plums,  Apricots,  etc. — Pick  over  carefully,  and 
dust,  if  necessary ;  do  not  wipe,  lest  you  remove  the  bloom, 
which  is  the  chief  beauty  of  all  stone  fruit ;  arrange  in 
pyramids  interspersed  with  fresh  leaves. 

Or,  cover  the  fruit-dish  with  a  bed  of  fresh  leaves,  and 
arrange  the  fruit  in  Parisian  fashion,  i.  e.,  in  a  four-sided 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS.  573 

pyramid,  the  stem  ends  turned  inward.     Cherries  are  ex- 
tremely pretty  arranged  in  this  way. 

Apples,  Pears,  etc. — Wash,  wipe  dry,  and  rub  to  a  bright 
polish  with  a  cloth  ;  arrange  in  pyramids  interspersed  with 
green  leaves. 

Orange  Salad.  —  Pare  and  slice  in  rounds  fine  ripe 
oranges ;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar ;  then  pile  in  a 
glass  dish,  and  pour  a  couple  of  glassfuls  of  wine,  or, 
better  still,  a  tumblerful  of  orange  and  lemon  juice,  half 
and  half,  over  all ;  sprinkle  again  with  sugar,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Currants  and  Raspberries.  —  String  the  currants,  and 
pick  both  raspberries  and  currants  over  carefully ;  mix  in 
even  quantities ;  put  into  a  glass  dish,  and  eat  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Ambrosia,  ~No.  1. — Eight  fine  ripe  oranges,  peeled  and 
sliced  ;  half  of  a  grated  cocoanut ;  'half  a  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  the  cocoa- 
nut  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  repeat  this 
process  until  the  dish  is  full. 

Ambrosia,  No,  2. — Peel  and  "fig"  the  oranges;  care- 
fully pick  out  all  the  pulp,  rejecting  the  thin  skin  and 
seeds ;  then  proceed  as  above. 

Tutti-Frutti  Fruit  Salad. — Prepare  some  oranges  as 
above,  and  arrange  in  a  glass  dish  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  sliced  bananas,  and  "pulled"  (not  sliced)  pineapple, 
strawberries  and  raspberries  if  you  have  them,  etc. ;  sugar 
to  taste;  add  wine  or  orange  juice,  and  set  on  the  ice  for 
an  hour  before  serving. 


574  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Crystallized  Currants. — Pick  over  carefully  equal  quan- 
tities of  white  and  red  currants ;  dip  each  bunch  carefully 
in  beaten  white  of  egg  and  a  little  cold  water  (mixed) ; 
then  roll  in  powdered  crystallized  sugar ;  do  this  once  or 
twice  until  the  bunches  are  well  frosted  ;  lay  on  white  pa- 
per to  dry ;  then  arrange  in  a  dish  for  dessert. 


HOME-MADE   CANDY. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — Grate  a  cocoanut,  and  boil  it  with 
one  ponnd  of  white  sugar ;  wet  with  the  milk  of  the  nut ; 
let  it  boil  slowly  until  thick,  then  pour  it  out  on  buttered 
plates. 

Peanut  Candy. — Two  quarts  of  peanuts,  roasted  in  their 
shells,  and  then  shelled  and  hulled ;  two  pounds  of  light- 
brown  sugar. 

Boil  the  sugar  in  a  preserving-kettle  with  enough  water 
to  wet  it  thoroughly,  and  form  a  syrup ;  when  the  sugar 
begins  to  boil,  throw  in  the  white  of  an  egg  to  clear  it ; 
strain  it,  and  try,  by  dropping  a  little  of  the  sugar  into 
cold  water,  if  it  is  done  enough ;  if  it  hardens  and  be- 
comes brittle  it  is  sufficiently  boiled,  and  must  be  taken 
from  the  fire;  the  blanched  nuts  must  then  be  stirred 
thoroughly  through  the  sugar ;  then  wet  with  a  brush  a 
marble  slab,  free  from  all  grease,  and  drop  the  hot  mixt- 
ure upon  it;  flatten  into  small  oblong  blocks;  when  cold 
take  them  oft*  the  board  with  a  knife. 

Almond  Candy. — Two  quarts  of  sweet  almonds;  two 
pounds  of  light-brown  sugar. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  roast  them  in  the  oven ;  then 
proceed  precisely  as  for  peanut  candy. 

Walnut  or  Hickory-nut  Candy. — Blanch  some  walnuts 
or  hickory-nuts  in  boiling  water ;  when  blanched  set  them 
aside ;  then  boil  together  one  cupful  of  water,  three  cup- 
fuls  of  brown  sugar,  and  four  ounces  of  butter ;  let  it  boil 


5 76  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

without  stirring  until  it  candies ;  then  proceed  as  for  pea- 
nut candy. 

Maple-Sugar  Caramels. — Two  pounds  of  maple  sugar; 
one  quart  of  rich  milk. 

Break  the  maple  sugar  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into 
a  pan  on  the  fire  with  the  milk ;  the  pan  must  be  deep 
enough  to  allow  the  sugar  to  expand  as  it  boils  ;  stir  with- 
out ceasing;  test  as  usual  in  cold  water,  and  when  it  is 
sufficiently  brittle  it  is  done ;  then  pour  into  square  but- 
tered pans,  and  score  with  a  knife  into  small  tablets. 

Plain  Caramels. — One  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  chocolate;  one  pint  of  cream  ;  one  large 
teaspoonful  of  butter;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses. 

Boil  for  thirty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ;  drop  into 
cold  water  to  test;  when  sufficiently  brittle  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  proceed  as 
above. 

Molasses  Candy. — One  quart  of  good  molasses;  half  a 
cupful  of  vinegar ;  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dis- 
solved in  hot  water. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar,  mix  with  the  molasses, 
and  boil,  stirring  steadily ;  when  it  begins  to  harden  stir 
in  the  saleratus  and  flavoring  to  taste;  then  pour  into  but- 
tered dishes,  and  pull  white  into  sticks. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Two  cupfnls  of  light-brown  sug- 
ar ;  half  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate  ;  one  cupful  of  milk, 
in  which  you  have  mixed  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  half  an  hour,  pour  into  buttered  pans,  then  with  a 
knife  score  it  over  in  little  squares. 

Taffy. — Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar ;  one  pint  of  wa- 


HOME-MADE  CANDY.  577 

ter;  half  a  teacupful  of  vinegar;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter. 

Stir  these  well  together  before  it  is  put  on  the  fire,  but 
do  not  stir  it  afterwards ;  flavor  witli  nutmeg,  boil  until 
brittle,  then  pour  it  into  shallow  flat  pans  that  are  well 
buttered. 

Cream  Candy. — Three  coffeecupfuls  of  the  finest  loaf 
sugar;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

Boil  without  stirring  in  a  bright  tin  pan  until  it  will 
crisp  in  water  like  molasses  candy  ;  just  before  it  is  done, 
flavor  it  with  lemon,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar;  then  pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  when  fit  to  han- 
dle pull  it  perfectly  white. 

Everton  Taffy. — One  pound  of  sugar;  half  a  pint  of 
molasses ;  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon  ;  boil  all  over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour,  and  pour  it 
upon  tins  well  buttered. 

Ginger -Drops.  —  Two  ounces  of  candied  orange  peel 
beaten  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  sugar  ;  one 
ounce  of  powder  of  white  ginger,  mixed  with  one  pound 
of  loaf  sugar ;  wet  the  sugar  with  a  little  water,  and  boil 
all  together  to  a  candy ;  then  drop  on  paper  in  small  drops. 

Currant- Drops. — Mix  a  quantity  of  fresh  currant  juice 
with  sifted  sugar  nearly  thick  enough  for  a  spoon  to  stand 
upright  in  it ;  put  it  in  a  deep  pan,  and  heat,  stirring  con- 
stantly, but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  then  mix  a  very  little  more 
sugar  and  some  grated  lemon  peel;  warm,  and  then  with 
a  small  stick  drop  on  paper. 

Barley  Sugar. — One  pint  of  very  strong  barley  water, 
strained ;  two  pounds  of  rock  candy  ;  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

Boil  without  stirring ;  then  pour  into  buttered  pans  and 
score  into  long  flat  sticks.     It  is  excellent. 


578  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Gum-Drops  [Cuisinilre  Parisienne). — Equal  quantities 
of  gum-arabic  and  orange-flower  water;  dissolve  the  gum- 
arabic  in  the  orange -flower  water  (cold  process),  then 
pour  this  mucilage  on  a  wet  marble  table,  and,  with  almost 
twice  the  quantity  of  powdered  sugar  and  half  the  quan- 
tity of  powdered  gum-arabic,  work  it  into  little  drops 
and  tablets. 

Apple  Sugar  (Cuisinilre  Bourgeoise). — To  the  syrup 
of  tart  apples,  prepared  as  for  apple  jelly,  add  three  times 
its  weight  of  clarified  sugar ;  stir  well,  put  on  the  fire 
and  boil,  stirring  constantly ;  as  soon  as  it  becomes  brittle, 
drop  on  a  w^et  marble  slab ;  when  it  becomes  cool,  cut  into 
strips  ;  roll  each  strip  in  powdered  sugar. 

Pate  a  Bonbons  {Cuisinilre  Bourgeoise). — Blanch  al- 
monds or  any  other  nuts ;  then  pound  in  a  mortar  with 
loaf  sugar  (already  pounded)  until  you  have  brought  them 
all  to  a  smooth,  firm  paste ;  form  into  any  shape  you  like. 
This  pate  is  very  good,  and  will  keep  for  a  fortnight. 

Pastilles  (Cuisinilre  Bourgeoise). — Sift  some  fine  pow- 
dered sugar  through  a  very  fine  sieve ;  add  to  it  just 
enough  rose  water  to  enable  you  to  work  it  to  a  smooth, 
flexible  paste  ;  then  put  it  into  a  pastille  saucepan  (or 
small  preserving-kettle),  place  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir 
steadily ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  bubble,  pour  out  on  a 
wet  or  oiled  marble  ;  pour  through  a  tiny  funnel,  in  little 
drops ;  or  you  may  have  tiny  tin  moulds  placed  on  the 
marble,  and  pour  in  the  pastilles  ;  with  the  above  receipt 
you  may  make  any  variety  of  pastilles,  flavoring  them  to 
taste. 

Burnt  Almonds  or  Pistachio  Nuts  (Cuisiniere  Bour- 
geoise).— Blanch  some  almonds  or  pistachio,  nuts,  and  put 
them  into  a  preserving-kettle  with  their  full  weight  in 
loaf  sugar,  and  half  a  glassful  of  water ;   put  on  the  fire, 


HOME-MADE  CANDY.  579 

and,  when  it  boils  hard,  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  until 
the  sugar  granulates,  and  the  almonds  may  easily  be  de- 
tached ;  then  take  them  out,  and  put  them  aside ;  divide 
the  sugar  into  two  portions ;  put  half  the  sugar  on  the  fire 
with  half  a  tumblerful  of  water,  and  boil  it  until  it  almost 
caramels  ;  then  throw  in  the  almonds  again,  stir  them  until 
they  have  absorbed  nearly  all  the  sugar ;  again  take  them 
out,  put  in  the  other  half  of  the  sugar,  with  half  a  glassful 
of  water  ;  boil  to  a  caramel,  put  in  the  almonds  again,  stir 
them  until  they  have  absorbed  all  the  sugar ;  then  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  pour  upon  buttered  plates ;  pull  apart 
the  almonds  which  adhere. 


COOKERY  FOR  CAMPING-OUT. 

To  Cook  Crabs  on  the  Shore.  —  When  you  reach  the 
crabbing-shore,  make  ready  your  gypsy  kettle,  which  is  a 
large  iron  pot,  swung  over  a  blazing  fire,  by  suspending 
it  from  a  tripod  of  strong  poles ;  fill  it  with  water  and  let 
it  boil  while  you  catch  the  crabs ;  plunge  them  alive  in 
boiling  water  ;  if  they  show  signs  of  weakness,  throw  them 
away — they  are  not  good  ;  let  the  crabs  boil  until  they  are 
bright  red,  then  pour  off  the.  water,  and  break  open  the 
shells ;  remove  the  fingers  (which  lie  between  the  outer 
and  inner  shell),  and  remove  also  the  sand-bags;  all  the 
rest  of  the  crab  is  good,  especially  the  fat,  which  is  usually 
of  a  reddish  yellow,  and  found  in  the  cavity  of  the  shell ; 
break  the  crab  in  half,  and  you  will  find  the  meat  revealed 
like  the  kernel  of  a  well-cracked  shell-bark. 

Crabs  Devilled  on  the  Shore. — Pick  out  all  the  bits  of 
snowy  and  good  meat  in  the  crab,  and  pack  into  the  red 
upper  shell  with  bread  crumb,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and 
vinegar ;  lay  the  shell  on  the  red  embers,  and  bake. 

Crab  Stew  on  SJiore. — One  quart  of  crabs,  carefully 
picked  ;  half  a  gallon  of  boiling  milk ;  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  in  which  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour  has  been 
rolled  ;  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley;  one  slice  of 
onion  ;  one  small  red-pepper  pod  ;  four  peppercorns ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  white  sugar;  salt  to  taste. 

Put  into  your  gypsy  kettle  and  cook. 


COOKEKY  POR  CAMPING-OUT.  581 

Game  Broiled  in  Camp. — Sharpen  at  one  end  a  piece 
of  stick  two  feet  long  and  an  inch  in  diameter ;  pre- 
pare the  meat  by  shaping  it  into  thin  pieces,  run  the 
stick  through  the  pieces,  and  hold  it  over  the  fire;  season 
them  when  half  done  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  hold 
them  over  the  fire  until  cooked;  be  careful  to  use  only 
coals. 

Smothered  Quail. — Bury  the  quail  in  hot  ashes  and 
embers  ;  let  them  remain  thus  fifteen  minutes ;  then  take 
them  out,  and  remove  the  skin  with  feathers  attached ; 
open  them,  and  the  entrails  will  fall  out ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  butter. 

To  CooJc  a  Deer's  Head  in  Camp. — Dig  a  hole  two  feet 
square  and  one  foot  deep ;  build  a  fire  in  it,  and  allow  it 
to  burn  to  embers  ;  remove  about  half  of  the  remaining 
coals,  throw  in  the  hole  a  thin  layer  of  green  leaves,  on  top 
of  which  put  the  head  in  the  same  condition  as  when  taken 
from  the  animal ;  cover  it  thoroughly  with  a  layer  of  green 
leaves,  and  the  embers  and  ashes  previously  taken  from 
the  hole;  allow  the  head  to  roast  an  hour  and  a  half,  then 
remove  it  and  pull  the  skin  from  it ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Potatoes  and  Onions  Roasted  in  Camp.  —  Eoll  each 
onion  and  potato  in  a  piece  of  wet  brown  paper,  and  cover 
them  in  hot  ashes  and  coals ;  allow  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  for  those  of  medium  size. 

Opossums. — Opossums  are  best  in  the  autumn,  when 
the  persimmons  are  ripe,  as  they  eat  that  fruit  and  become 
very  fat.  They  are  never  caught  in  the  daytime.  A  fine 
moonlight  night  is  the  best  time  to  catch  opossums.  When 
caught,  put  them  in  a  cage,  and  feed  them  for  several  days ; 
skin  and  draw  the  opossum,  cut  off  the  legs  to  the  first 
joint,  and  part  of  the  tail;  stuff  the  head  and  body  like  a 


582  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

turkey,  and  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire  ;  opossums  are  never 
eaten  hot. 

Sportsman? 8  Cake. — Take  a  smooth  board;  break  oil  a 
strong,  smooth  sapling,  and  put  it  to  use  as  a  rolling-pin; 
then  take  one  quart  of  white  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  it  with  the  coldest  water  you  can  get,  roll  it  out 
about  one  third  of  an  inch  thick;  then  lay  it  on  a  smooth, 
flat  stone,  which  has  been  thoroughly  heated  in  the  fire ; 
dust  this  stone  with  flour,  and  then  bake  your  cake  upon 
it ;  or  you  may  pour  out  the  grease  from  the  frying-pan  in 
which  the  pork  has  been  cooked,  prop  up  the  pan  before 
the  fire,  and  bake  the  cake  like  pone. 

Sportsman? s  Dodger. — Take  some  first-rate  Indian  meal ; 
pour  enough  boiling  water  over  it  to  scald  it;  add  salt 
to  taste,  and  make  up  into  little  cakes;  brown  them  in 
the  frying-pan,  or  bake  them  on  hot  stones,  or  on  a  board 
before  the  fire ;  they  are  very  good. 

Miner's  Bread. — Two  quarts  of  self-raising  flour ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  quart  of  water. 

Mix  all  together  until  the  batter  is  free  from  lumps ; 
then  bake  in  a  pan  on  the  hot  fire. 

Maryland  "Along  Shore"  Boast  Oysters. — Select  the 
largest  and  best  oysters  brought  to  shore,  and  wash  them 
clean ;  fill  an  iron  pan  with  them,  and  set  it  on  a  bed  of 
hot  coals  ;  keep  it  there  until  the  oysters  open  their  shells; 
have  ready  another  pan,  smaller,  fresh  and  clean,  upon 
another  bed  of  coals ;  put  into  this  other  pan  a  good-sized 
piece  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  some  vinegar; 
then  open  the  oysters  with  an  oyster-knife ;  drop  them  in 
the  butter,  and  eat  them  steaming  hot ;  or  eat  them  from 
the  shells  if  you  prefer. 


COOKERY  FOR  CAMPING-OUT.  583 

Clams,  Along  Shore. — Make  a  fire  on  the  beach  of  brush, 
wreckwood,  and  sea-weed ;  when  you  have  a  glowing  bed 
of  embers  rake  out  a  place  for  the  clams,  and  place  the 
clams,  edge  downwards,  in  the  hot  embers;  sweet  pota- 
toes in  their  skins,  and  Indian  corn  in  its  gauzy  husks, 
may  be  interspersed  among  the  clams  ;  then  layers  of  sea- 
weed, brush,  and  light  wood  of  every  sort  are  strewn 
thickly  over  all,  and  the  fire  may  then  be  lighted ;  after 
an  hour  or  more  the  burning  embers  may  be  scattered,  and 
the  clams,  potatoes,  and  corn  eaten  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

Clam-Bake  on  a  Rocky  Shore. — Some  hours  before  you 
want  to  eat  the  clams  build  a  large  fire  on  the  rock ;  when 
the  fire  has  burned  out,  clear  the  embers  away  quickly, 
and  heap  a  quantity  of  clams  on  the  hot  stone ;  throw  on 
also  some  lobsters,  crabs,  and  oysters,  sweet  potatoes,  and 
ears  of  corn  ;  rake  over  the  hot  embers  ;  cover  with  a 
heavy  mass  of  sea-weed,  and  let  shell-fish,  potatoes,  and 
corn  steam  until  all  are  done. 

Sportsman's  Stew.  —  Two  squirrels  well  skinned  and 
cleaned ;  one  small  slice  of  fat  bacon ;  two  quarts  of 
tomatoes;  six  white  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  fine;  two 
quarts  of  ochra ;  one  quart  of  Lima  beans ;  two  large 
onions,  cut  up  fine;  one  pod  of  green  pepper;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Pack  the  above  in  a  hamper;  light  a  fire;  hang  up  your 
gypsy  kettle,  and  as  soon  as  you  have  shot,  cleaned,  and 
skinned  the  squirrels,  put  all  the  ingredients  of  your  stew 
together  in  the  kettle  ;  let  them  stew  for  four  hours ;  then 
add  six  ears  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  stew  another 
hour;  be  very  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  and,  if  too  thick, 
add  a  little  boiling  water. 

To  Bake  or  Steam  Trout. — Scour  the  trout  with  sand, 
and  wash  them  in  running  water;  open,  and  clean  them; 


584  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

then  wipe  dry,  and  pepper  and  salt  inside,  and  envelop  in 
strong  white  paper,  carefully  buttered ;  wrap  each  trout 
up  well ;  then  wrap  again  in  six  or  seven  folds  of  coarse 
straw  paper;  dip  each  fish  so  encased  into  running  water 
so  as  to  saturate  the  straw  paper;  then  lay  the  trout  side 
by  side  in  a  bed  of  hot  ashes  and  coals  hollowed  out  for 
the  purpose ;  cover  them  thoroughly  with  the  hot  embers, 
and  allow  a  minute  an  inch  for  cooking — that  is,  for  a  trout 
ten  inches  long  allow  ten  minutes  ;  remove  them  from  the 
ashes  by  inserting  a  long  forked  stick  beneath,  and  draw- 
ing them  out;  unroll  on  a  flat,  hot  stone;  then  open, 
butter,  and  eat ;  there  is  really  no  better  way  of  cooking 
trout. 

Anglers  Planned  Trout, — Open,  clean,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  butter  as  above;  then  proceed  to  "plank"  as  for 
shad. 

Angler's  Fried  Trout. — Take  a  large  flat  stone,  wash 
clean,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  on  a  glowing  bed  of  embers; 
when  red  hot  (i.  <?.,  as  hot  as  a  stone  can  be)  lay  on  the 
stone  a  fish  prepared  for  cooking  as  above,  and  fry  thor- 
oughly ;  eat  with  butter  and  salt. 

Angler's  Boast  Trout.  —  Scour,  wash,  open  and  clean 
the  fish  as  usual;  then  cut  off  their  heads,  score  them 
lightly,  and  pepper  and  salt  them  inside  and  out;  cut  one 
or  more  branches  (sweet  birch  is  best),  and  stick  the  fish 
upon  the  twigs,  running  the  twig  along  the  upper  side  of 
the  back-bone  ;  hold  the  branch  before  the  fire ;  by  watch- 
ing the  inside  of  the  fish  it  is  easy  to  see  when  they  are 
done. 

Michigan  Brook  Trout.  —  Having  cleaned  the  fish, 
find  a  slender,  flexible  branch  of  a  tree  (not  pine  or  its 
congeners),  fasten  the  fish  by  its  head  to  the  end  of  the 
branch,  stick  the  other  end  into  the  ground,  at  an  angle 


COOKERY  FOR  CAMPING-OUT.  585 

that  will  allow  the  fish  to  hang  in  front  of  the  fire  where 
it  will  get  the  most  heat;  put  a  small  piece  of  pork  on  its 
head  so  that  a  little  of  the  fat  will  run  down  the  fish ; 
place  a  piece  of  hard  tack  under  it  to  catcli  the  drippings; 
keep  it  turning,  so  that  both  sides  will  cook  alike ;  when 
sufficiently  done,  eat  it  with  the  hard  tack.  This  is  a  dish 
good  enough  for  Izaak  Walton. 

25* 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CLEANING  SIL- 
VER, GLASS,  CHINA,  ETC. 

Louis's  Receipt  for  Cleaning  Silver. — Dissolve  a  lump 
of  carbonate  of  ammonia  in  a  pan  of  absolutely  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  pass  the  silver  through  it,  and  dry  immediately ;  once 
a  week  rub  the  spots  with  a  little  silver  powder,  i.  e.9  fine 
whiting  dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine;  when  this  is  quite 
well  dried  on  the  silver,  rub  each  piece  carefully  with 
clean  towels,  and  then  with  soft  chamois.  It  will  be  beau- 
tifully bright.  Still  better  than  whiting  is  the  jeweller's 
rouge,  made  in  bars  for  the  .express  purpose  of  cleaning 
silver.  Wash  the  silver  every  time  it  is  used,  in  a  pan 
by  itself,  with  plenty  of  boiling  water,  a  brush,  and  silver 
soap  ;  dry  each  piece  as  it  is  taken  out  of  the  water,  and 
rub  with  the  chamois  cloth  before  putting  it  away.  Treat- 
ed in  this  way  silver  never  becomes  dim,  and  the  weekly 
polishing  is  not  a  formidable  affair. 

Cleaning  Pots,  Kettles,  and  Tins. — Boil  a  double  hand- 
ful of  hay  or  grass  in  a  new  iron  pot  before  attempting 
to  cook  in  it;  scrub  out  with  soap  and  sand;  then  set 
it  on  the  fire  full  of  water  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

New  tins  should  stand  near  the  fire  with  boiling  water 
in  them,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  spoonful  of  soda, 
for  an  hour ;  then  be  scoured  inside  with  soft  soap,  after- 
wards rinsed  with  boiling  water. 

Clean  by  rubbing  with  sifted  wood  ashes. 

Clean  copper  utensils  with  Bath  brick,  a  little  alcohol, 
and  flannel. 

As  soon  as  you  empty  a  pot  or  pan,  fill  instantly  with 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CLEANING  SILVER,  GLASS,  ETC.    587 

hot  water  and  set  on  the  fire  to  scald  them  thoroughly. 
Always  clean  and  wipe  dry  all  kitchen  utensils  before  set- 
ting them  away. 

To  Polish  Looking-glasses. — Wash  clean  with  water  in 
which  a  little  soda  has  been  dissolved,  wipe  dry,  and  pol- 
ish with  a  rag  and  a  little  bluing  powder ;  finish  with  a 
chamois  cloth,  and  rub  hard  and  long. 

To  Clean  Knives. — Clean  with  soft  flannel  and  Bath 
brick ;  if  rusty,  use  wood  ashes  rubbed  on  with  a  newly 
cut  bit  of  Irish  potato.  Never  allow  the  hot  water  to 
touch  the  ivory  handles  of  the  knives. 

To  Wash  China  and  Glass. — Have  two  large  pans  of 
hot  water ;  wash  glass  first,  then  silver,  then  china ;  rinse 
off  in  one  pan,  transfer  to  the  other  pan  of  very  hot  wa- 
ter, and  wash  with  a  mop  and  strong  soapsuds,  and  wipe 
instantly.  Never  allow  glass,  silver,  or  china  to  drain  one 
instant. 

To  Wash  Windows. — Dissolve  a  little  washing  soda  in 
the  water,  use  a  flannel  cloth,  dry  quickly  with  a  soft, 
clean  towel,  and  polish  wTith  chamois-skin. 

To  Bub  Furniture. — If  very  dirty,  wash  off  with  a  flan- 
nel cloth  dipped  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water;  dry 
instantly  and  thoroughly,  and  at  once  rub  with  flannel 
which  has  been  dipped  in  linseed  oil  and  carefully  wrung 
out;  finish  with  dry  flannel,  and  rub  hard  and  long.  ^  El- 
bow grease  counts  for  a  good  deal  in  keeping  furniture 
bright. 

To  Clean  Carpets.— Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  tea-leaves, 
sweep  well,  then  use  soap  and  warm  water  for  the  grease 
and  dirt  spots ;  rub  the  wet  spots  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 


MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS. 

KITCHEN   UTENSILS,   ETC.   ("BOSTON    COOK-BOOK  "). 

Hate  a  complete  set  of  strainers,  one  of  fine  wire  for 
sifting  soda,  spices,  etc.,  and  straining  custards  and  jellies, 
others  with  meshes  from  one  sixteenth  to  one  eighth  of  an 
inch  in  diameter;  also  a  squash-strainer  and  a  colander. 
Extension  wire-strainers  are  also  convenient ;  also  a  sup- 
ply of  strainer-cloths  made  from  coarse  crash  or  cheese 
cloth,  and  fine  napkin  linen.  A  set  of  oval  tin  moulds,  a 
melon  mould,  and  one  or  two  fancy  moulds  are  convenient 
for  entrees,  puddings,  and  jellies. 

Among  other  useful  articles  may  be  mentioned  :  Dover 
egg-beaters,  large  and  small;  ordinary  small  wooden 
spoons  and  the  large  perforated  ones;  a  whip  churn; 
granite  saucepans  and  stewpans  holding  from  half  a  pint 
to  six  quarts ;  double  boilers ;  a  wire  basket  for  frying ; 
a  potato  slicer ;  a  fine  wire  broiler  for  toast,  and  two 
coarser  ones  for  steak  and  fish  ;  a  set  of  pastry  bags,  and 
frosting-tubes;  fancy  vegetable  cutters;  a  glass  rolling- 
pin,  and  a  small,  sharp-pointed  knife,  made  from  the  best 
steel,  for  paring  potatoes,  turnips,  etc.;  also  a  set  of  tin 
measuring-cups  holding  half  a  pint,  and  divided  into  quar- 
ters and  thirds. 

Small  saucepans  and  bowls  are  more  convenient  than 
larger  ones,  and  granite  and  agate  ware  are  lighter  to 
handle  and  more  easily  kept  clean  than  iron  -  ware. 
Buckets   are   convenient   for  keeping  sugar  and   small 


MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS.  589 

quantities  of  flour.     Glass  jars  and  wide-mouthed  bottles 
are  best  for  all  groceries,  grated  bread,  dried  herbs,  etc. 

A  refrigerator  should  be  carefully  examined  daily,  and 
kept  perfectly  clean  ;  a  long,  stiff  wire,  with  a  bit  of  cloth 
at  the  end,  should  be  used  to  clean  the  drain-pipe;  pour 
boiling  washing-soda  through  it  every  other  day,  and 
always  wash  off  the  slime  which  adheres  to  the  water- 
pan. 

Never  wash  a  bread-board  in  an  iron  sink ;  wash  it  in 
cold  water,  and  scrub  occasionally  with  sand  soap ;  scrape 
the  dough  off  the  board  very  carefully,  holding  the  knife 
in  a  slanting  position,  and  going  with  the  grain  of  the  wood. 

A  Dover  egg-beater  should  never  be  put  into  water, 
but  should  be  wiped  clean  with  a  damp  cloth  immediately 
after  using,  then  wiped  quite  dry,  and  oiled  with  the  finest 
olive-oil. 

Scrape  all  dishes  with  a  wooden  knife  before  washing ; 
put  bread  and  cake  bowls,  and  all  dishes  in  which  flour 
and  eggs  have  been  used,  into  cold  water  until  you  are 
ready  to  wash  them. 

Keep  all  soiled  pans  and  kettles  filled  with  cold  water, 
and  soak  them  until  you  are  ready  to  clean  them. 

All  pans  should  be  first  washed  in  clear,  cold  water, 
then  in  hot,  soapy  water,  then  rinsed  in  clear  boiling 
water,  and  thoroughly  dried  with  a  dry,  clean  towel. 

Iron-ware  should  be  washed  outside  and  inside  in  hot, 
soapy  water,  rinsed  in  clean  hot  water,  and  wiped  dry  with 
a  dry  towel. 

Dripping-pans,  Scotch  bowls,  and  other  greasy  dishes 


590  THE   UNKIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

should  be  scraped  and  wiped  with  soft  paper,  which  will 
absorb  the  grease;  the  paper  will  be  found  useful  in  kin- 
dling. A  tablespoonful  of  soda  added  to  the  hot  dish- 
water will  facilitate  the  cleaning. 

Kitchen  mineral  soap  or  pumice  stone  may  be  used 
freely  on  all  dishes,  pans,  and  kettles  ;  it  is  very  cleansing. 
Tins  should  be  washed  in  clean,  hot,  soapy  water,  and 
rubbed  frequently  with  mineral  soap ;  they  will  remain 
bright. 

Saucepans,  and  other  tin  and  granite  dishes  browned 
by  use  may  be  cleaned  by  letting  them  remain  half  an 
hour  in  boiling  soda-water,  then  rubbing  with  a  wire  dish- 
cloth or  stiff  brush. 

A  new  tin  coffee-pot  should  never  be  washed  on  the 
inside  with  soap ;  wash  outside,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in- 
side with  clear  water ;  then  set  on  the  stove  to  dry,  and, 
finally  (when  dry),  rub  the  inside  well  with  a  clean,  dry 
cloth  ;  keep  a  granite  pan  near  the  sink  to  use  in  washing 
vegetables.  Always  have  in  your  sink  an  old  quart  tin- 
pan  with  holes  in  the  bottom  ;  pour  everything  that  is 
turned  into  the  sink  through  this  strainer,  and  put  the 
refuse  into  the  swill-pail. 

Use  a  dish-mop  for  cups  and  dishes,  and  a  strong  linen 
cloth  for  everything  that  requires  hard  rubbing ;  wash  the 
sink  thoroughly,  flush  the  drain-pipe  with  hot  suds  or  hot 
soda-water,  wipe  the  sink  dry  and  rub  with  a  greased  cloth ; 
always  keep  two  swill -pails,  and  use  them  alternately, 
cleaning  each  as  soon  as  emptied. 

Wash  dish-towels  in  cold  wrater,  with  plenty  of  soap, 
and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water  every  time  they  are 
used ;  if  left  to  dry  without  washing  they  have  a  dis- 
agreeable odor,  and  are  sticky. 


MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS.  591 

Every  kitchen  should  be  furnished  with  plenty  of 
pieces  of  new  white  mosquito  netting  and  cheese  cloth 
for  putting  around  fish,  chickens,  and  vegetables  which 
require  careful  boiling,  also  for  bags  for  herbs  and  spices. 

Small  squares  of  new  cotton  cloth  are  useful  for  wip- 
ing meat  and  fish ;  keep  them  clean,  and  use  for  nothing 
else. 

Keep  a  good  supply  of  small  holders,  large  coarse 
towels  to  use  about  the  ovens,  and  fine  crash  towels  for 
wiping  dishes;  keep  a  damp  towel  on  the  table,  when 
cooking,  for  wiping  the  hands. 


MENUS. 

MENUS   FOR   SPRING. 

Crecy  Soup. 

Broiled  Shad.     Cucumbers. 

Supreme  de  Volaille. 

Hindquarter  Lamb.     Mint  Sauce. 

Green  Pease.     Potato  Croquettes. 

Broiled  Woodcock.     Lettuce  in  mayonnaise. 

Omelette  Souffle. 

Strawberries.     Coffee. 


Clear  Soup. 

Halibut.     Sauce  Hollandaise.     Cucumbers. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Sweetbreads. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  aux  Champignons. 

Saratoga  Fried  Potatoes.     Green  Pease. 

Mayonnaise  of  Lobster. 

Chocolate  Blanc-mange. 

Fruit.     Coffee. 


Little  Neck  Clams  on  lee. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

Salmon  Cream  Sauce. 

Fricandeau  of  Yeal, 

String  Beans.     Mashed  Potatoes. 

Roast  Chicken.     Lettuce. 

Creme  Caramel. 

Raspberries.     Coffee. 


MENUS.  593 

Little  Neck  Clams  on  Ice. 

Puree  of  Green  Pease. 

Boiled  Cod.     Sauce  Hollandaise.     Cucumbers. 

Chicken  Breasts  a  la  Florence. 

Asparagus. 

Poast  Game.     Lettuce. 

Claret  Jelly.     Cream  Sauce. 

Fruit.     Coffee. 


Dinner  for  Ten  People. 

Little  Neck  Clams,  iced,  in  the  Shell. 

Bouchees  a  la  Peine. 

Bisque  a  la  Creole. 

Fillets  of  Striped  Bass  breaded  and  fried. 

Pick  Cream  Sauce. 

Green  Pease.     Sweetbread  Croquettes. 

Tomatoes  stuffed. 

Lamb  Poast.     Mint  Sauce. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Poman  Punch. 

Poast  Game  in  Season. 

Lettuce  with  Cream  Dressing. 

Pamequins  of  Cheese. 

Bird's-Nest  in  Jelly.     Ices. 

Fruit,  Nuts,  etc.     Coffee. 


MENUS    FOR    SUMMER. 

Bisque  of  Lobster. 

Pates  of  Sweetbread. 

Poast  Goose.     Apple  Sauce. 

Green  Pease.     Potatoes. 

Fried  Egg-plant. 

Cheese  Souffles.     Lettuce. 

Custard  Cake. 

Fruit.     Coffee. 


594  THE  UNKIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Braised  Beef. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes.     Macaroni. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Roast  Capon.     Lettuce. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Fruit.     Coffee. 


White  Soup. 

Soft-shell  Crabs. 

French  Chops,  and  Spinach. 

Chickens  fried  with  Cream. 

Souffle  of  Potatoes.     French  Beans. 

Jellied  Tongue.     Sliced  Tomatoes,  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Frozen  Pudding.     Cake. 

Frosted  Currants.     Coffee. 


Vegetable  Soup. 

Boiled  Blue  Fish.     Sauce  Hollandaise.     Cucumbers. 

Beef.     Olives.     Bice.     Corn. 

Ham.     Potatoes.     Salad. 

Meringues. 

Raspberries.     Coffee. 


Dinner  for  Eight  People. 

Potage  a  la  Princesse. 

Petits  Souffles. 

Turban  de  Soles.     Sauce  Hollandaise. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  k  la  Gardiniere. 

Supreme  de  Poulardes  aux  Petits  Pois. 

Pate  de  Foie  Gras  en  Belle  Sue. 

Dindon  Roti. 

Salade  Saison. 

Artichauts  a  la  Lyonnaise. 

Plum  Pudding. 

Glace.     Cafe  Moka. 


MENUS.  595 

Family  Dinner,  No.  1. 

Calves'-Head  Soup. 

Ignachi  a  la  Romana. 

Mutton  Chops,  breaded. 

Potato  Kibbon.     Green  Pease. 

Boast  Chicken.     Lettuce  Salad. 

Amber  Pudding. 

Dessert  of  Fruit  and  Nuts  in  Season. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  2. 

Potage  a  la  Peine. 

Stewed  Lobster. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Sweetbread,  Chicken,  and  Mushrooms. 

Roast  Saddle  of  Mutton.     Currant  Jelly. 

Potato  Balls.     Cauliflower. 

Roquefort  Cheese.     Celery. 

Crystal-Palace  Pudding. 

Fruit  and  Nuts  in  Season. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  3. 

Consomme  a  la  Royale. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Stewed  Pigeons  with  Olives.     Asparagus  Points. 

Fillet  of  Beef.     Potato  Sautees. 

Mayonnaise  Lettuce.     Cheese  Sticks. 

Sir  Watkyn  Wynn's  Pudding. 

Dessert  of  Fruit  and  Nuts. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  4. 

Clam  Soup. 

Baked  Bass.     Sauce  Piquante. 

Fricandeau  of  Yeal. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.     Potato  Hay.     Panned  Macaroni. 

Pair  of  Mallards.     Currant  Jelly.     Plain  Salad. 

Salad  Snow,  or  Eahm  Sultz. 

Fruit  and  Nuts. 


596  THE  UNRIVALLED  COOK-BOOK. 

Family  Dinner,  No.  5. 

Raw  Oysters. 

Celery  Soup. 

Lamb  Chops.     Fried  Parsley.     Spinach. 

Fillet  of  Beef.     Mushrooms. 

Cheese  Aigrettes. 

Transparent  Pudding. 

Fruit.     Nuts. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  6. 
Potage  a  la  Crecy. 
Scalloped  Halibut. 
Roast  Goose.     Apple  Sauce.     Potato  Balls.    Fried  Cauli- 
flower. 
Cheese  Devils.     Celery. 
Claret  Jelly.     Cream  Sauce. 
Fruit.     Nuts. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  7. 

Ox-tail  Soup. 

Croquettes  of  Calves'  Brains. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton.     Caper  Sauce.     Mashed  Turnips. 

Potato  Snow. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

Mayonnaise  of  Celery. 

Baked  Orange  Pudding. 

Dessert  of  Fruit  and  Nuts. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  8. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Stewed  Kidneys.     Sippets  of  Toast. 

Porterhouse  Steak.     Saratoga  Potatoes.     Green  Pease. 

Plain  Salad  and  Roast  Partridge  with  Fried  Bread 

Crumbs. 

Apricot  Trifle. 

Fruit.    Nuts 


MENUS.  597 

Family  Dinner,  No.  9. 

Gumbo  File  with  Oysters. 

Devilled  Lobster  a  la  Thackeray. 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets  with  Lemon.    Spinach.   Potato  Hay. 

Broiled  Quail  on  Toast. 

Lettuce  Salad  with  French  Dressing. 

Apple  Trifle. 
Dessert  of  Fruit  and  Nuts  in  Season. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  10. 

Corn  and  Tomato  Soup. 

Farcied  Crabs. 

Roast  Beef  (rib  piece).     Horseradish  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  broiled.     Salsify  Fritters.     Coleslaw. 

Celery  and  Cheese. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Fruit,  Nuts,  etc. 


Family  Dinner,  No.  11. 

Puree  of  Green  Pease,  with  Croutons  of  Fried  Bread. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel. 

Sweetbreads.     Pointes  d'Asperge. 

Roast  Duck.     Apple  Sauce. 

Spinach.     Boiled  Onions  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Lettuce  Salad  with  French  Dressing. 

Friar's  Omelette. 

Fruit  and  Nuts. 


Simple  Family  Dinner,  No.  1. 

Clear  Son  p. 

Fried  Smelts.     Sauce  Tartare. 

Little  Pates  filled  with  Minced  Chicken  or  Yeal. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton.    Mashed  Turnips.    Stewed  Potatoes. 

Celery.     Cheese. 

Apple  Stephan. 

Fruit  and  Nuts. 


598  THE  UNRIVALLED   COOK-BOOK. 

Simple  Family  Dinner,  No.  2. 

Puree  of  Spinach  a  la  Darcy. 

Croutons  of  Fried  Bread. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Roast  Turkey.     Cranberry  Sauce. 

Boiled  Cauliflower.     Mashed  Potatoes,  browned. 

Cheese  Souffles. 

Mince  Pie. 
Fruit  and  Nuts. 


Simple  Family  Dinner,  No.  3. 

Mulligatawny  Soup. 

Striped  Bass.     Sauce  Hollandaise. 

Chicken  Croquettes  with  Pease. 

Fillet  of  Veal,  stuffed. 

Potatoes.     Coleslaw. 


MENUS    FOE   WINTER. 

Dinner  for  Ten  People,  No.  1. 

Raw  Oysters. 

Consomme  or  Bisque  of  Crabs. 

Boiled  Sheepshead.     Sauce  Hollandaise. 

Sweetbreads.     Brown  Sauce.     Mushrooms. 

Fonds  d'Artichauts. 

Saddle  of  Mutton.     Currant  Jelly.     French  Beans. 

Roman  Punch. 

Roast  Partridge  or  Quail  with  Fried  Bread  Crumbs. 

Mayonnaise  of  Celery. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Baba  au  Rhum. 

Ices. 

Dessert  of  Fruit,  etc. 

Coffee. 


MENUS.  599 

Dinner  for  Ten  People,  'No.  % 

Julienne  Soup. 

Small  Timbales  of  Lobster. 

Boiled  Salmon.     Sauce  Yerte  a  la  Yenitienne. 

Potato  Snow. 

Lamb  Cutlets.     Green  Pease. 

Stewed  Quail  with  Celery. 

Haunch  of  Yenison.     Currant  Jelly. 

Mayonnaise  of  Tomatoes. 

Hot  Nesselrode  Pudding. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Neapolitan  Ice  (i.  e.,  Water  Ice). 

Dessert.     Coffee. 


INDEX. 


HORS  D'CEUYRES. 


Almonds.  Roast,  No.  1, 1. 
No.  2,  1. 
Anchovies,  3. 
Artichokes,  1. 
Butter,  3. 

"       Hazelnut,  4. 
Caviare,  2. 

"        Sandwiches,  2. 
Cucumbers,  4. 

"  Salted,  2. 

General  Directions,  1. 
Mushrooms,  Broiled,  3. 


Olives,  3. 

"      Stuffed,  4. 
Oysters,  Pickled,  4. 
Peanuts,  Blanched,  2. 

"        Boiled,  3. 
Radishes,  2. 
Sandwiches,  Sapsago,  4. 

"  Variegated,  3. 

Sardines,  4. 
Sausage,  Bologna,  2. 
Shrimps,  2. 
Truffles  au  Vin,  3. 


SOUPS. 


Almond  Soup,  7. 
Asparagus,  Green,  Soup,  6. 
Bean  Soup,  Dried,  9. 

"  Poor  Man's,  or  Lentil  Soup, 

9. 
Beer  Soup,  10. 
Beet  Soup,  Russian,  8. 
Bisque  a  la  Creole,  23. 

"       of  Shrimps,  Prawns,  or  Crabs,  23. 
Bouillabaisse  a  la  Marseillaise,  24. 
"  "         New  Orleans,  24. 

Bouillon,  Blanc,  11. 

"         Cold,  10. 

"         Mulatre,  13. 

"         Succulent,  11. 
Brown  Gravy  Soup,  35. 
Calves'-head  Soup,  9. 
Carrots,  Puree  of,  with  Cream,  7. 
Casa  Linga,  13. 
Catfish  Soup.  25. 
Celery  Cream  Soup,  Cold,  19. 
Cheese  Soup,  14. 
Cherry  Soup,  10,  14. 
Chestnuts,  Puree  of,  40. 
Chicken,  Puree  of,  14. 

«        Soup,  Cold,  15. 

26 


Clam  Soup,  25. 
Clear  Soup  a  la  Virginie,  16. 
Cockie-leckie  Soup,  20. 
Consomme,  16. 

"  a  la  Regale,  17. 

"  &  l'lmperatrice,  18. 

"  aux  Jacobins,  17. 

"  aux  Ravioles  de  Gibier,  22. 

"  Plain,  17. 

"  with  Poached  Eggs,  17. 

Cordiale  alia  Fiarentina,  20. 
Corn  Soup,  7,  18. 

"     and  Tomato  Soup,  13. 
Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole,  25. 
for  Sea-fish,  25. 
Crab  Ochra  Gumbo,  30. 
Cucido,  Pot  au  Feu  a  la  Portngaise,  36. 
Cucumber  Soup,  Cold,  15. 
Deer's-Head  Soup  a  la  Malmesbury,  21. 
Eel  Soup,  26. 
Fish  Soup,  22. 
"    Stock,  22. 
French  Pot  au  Feu,  37. 
Garspacho  (Spanish  Soup  Salad),  29. 
German  Flour  Soup,  29. 
Giblet  Soup,  31. 


602 


INDEX. 


Good  Housekeeper's  Soup,  31. 
Gumbo  File  with  Chicken,  30. 
"  "         Oysters,  30. 

Hodge  Podge,  20. 

Hare,  Rabbit,  or  Grajr-Squirrel  Soup,  32. 
Julienne  k  la  Polonaise,  12. 
"        aJaRusse,  12. 
Soup,  11. 
Lobster  Soup,  Bisque,  23. 
Mulligatawny  Soup,  No.  1,  32. 
"  "      No.  2, 32. 

Mushrooms,  Puree  of,  33. 
Mutton  Broth,  33. 
Olla'Podrida,  34. 
Onion  Soup  a  la  Creole,  14. 
Onions,  Puree  of,  33. 
Ouka  (Russian  Soup),  28. 
Oxtail  Soup,  34. 
Oyster  Soup,  28. 
Parsley  Cream  Soup,  Cold,  19. 
Pea  Soup,  Dried,  18.  • 

"         Green,  13. 
Pigeons,  Puree  of,  40. 
Pot  au  Feu,  35. 
Potage  a  la  Conde,  38. 

"      a  la  Crecy,  38. 

"      a  la  Reine,  39. 

"      a  la  Reine  d'Angleterre,  42. 


Potato  Soup,  Irish,  16. 

Puchero,  Pot  au  Feu  a  la  Espagnole,  36. 

Puree  de  Boeuf  a  la  Russe,  38. 

Rosol,  Pot  au  Feu  a  la  Polonaise,  37. 

Sago  Soup  with  Wine,  30. 

Scotch  Broth,  20. 

Sheep's-head  Soup,  French,  37. 

Shrimp  Ochra  Gumbo,  30. 

Spinach  Soup  a  la  Darcy,  40. 

Sorrel,  Puree  of,  39. 

"      Soup,  Cold,  19. 
Soup — General  Directions,  5. 

"    made  in  an  Hour,  18. 
Soup  Stock,  to  Clarify,  6. 

"  to  Make  Good,  6. 

"  to  Clear,  41. 

Soupe  a  la  Dolgorouki,  21. 
Terrapin  Soup,  27. 
Tomato  Soup,  16. 
Turtle  Soup,  Green,  26. 

"  "         Forcemeat  Balls  for, 

26. 
Turtle  Soup,  Dried,  27. 

"         "      Mock,  41. 
Vermicelli  Soup,  35. 
White  Soup  for  Supper,  40. 

"         "      of  Jerusalem,  7. 
Woodcock,  Puree  of,  40. 


FISH. 


Bass,  River,  and  Rockfish,  72. 
Blackfish,  73. 
Brandade  de  Morue,  47. 
Carp,  a  la  Chambord,  55. 

"     Fried,  59. 
Catfish,  Fried,  46. 

"       Stewed,  46. 
Chowder,  Clam,  50. 

"         Massachusetts,  49. 
"         Rhode  Island,  49. 
"         St.  James's  Club,  50. 
Clams,  Fritters,  51. 

"      Raw.  51.    . 

"      Roast,  51 

"      Scalloped,  51. 
Codfish  a  la  Provencale,  47. 

"      Balls,  48. 

"  "      Boston,  83. 

"       Fresh.  Boiled,  47. 

"       Pie,  48. 

"       Roast,  53. 

"      Salt,  Boiled,  47. 

"  "     Stewed  with  Eggs, 


Courtbouillon  a  la  Creole  No.  1,  51. 
"  "  No.  2, 52. 

"  "  for  Sea-Fish, 

No.  3,  52. 
Crab  Croquettes,  52. 
"     Mayonnaise,  68. 
Crabs,  Soft-shell,  53. 

"  "         a  la  Creole,  68. 

"      Stuffed,  a  la  Creole,  52. 
Eels,  Fried,  55. 

"     Stewed,  55. 
Fish  au  Gratin,  82. 
"     Barbecued,  73. 

"     Boiling,  General  Directions  for,  45. 
"     Cooked  with  Macaroni,  81. 
"     Desiree's  Courtbouillon  for,  82. 
"     Fricandeau  of,  60. 
"     Fried,  Spanish  Sauce  for,  79. 
"     Frying,  46. 
"     HashJBoston,  84. 
"     Pan,  Fried,  77. 
"       "     with  Sauce  Piquante,  54. 
"     Picnic,  69. 


INDEX. 


603 


Fish,  Salt,  and  Potatoes,  82. 
"       "     Spanish  Fashion,  60. 
"     Salt,  to  Choose,  44. 
"     Souffle,  Boston,  84. 
"     Stephanie's,  a  la  Creole,  76. 
"     Table  for  the  Northern  States,  43. 
"     to  Choose,  44. 
"     to  Clean,  44. 
Haddock  and  Oysters,  75. 

"        Fricasseed,  75. 
Halibut,  Baked,  57. 
«        Boiled,  57. 

Cold  Devilled,  58. 
"        Mamie's  Scalloped,  58. 
"        Steaks,  58. 
Lobster  a  la  Bordelaise,  56. 
"       Croquettes,  56. 
"      Hot,  56. 
"       Potted,  57. 
Lobsters,  Boiled,  55. 

"        Curry  of,  57. 
Mackerel,  83. 

"         Boiled,  59. 

Broiled,  No.  1,  59. 
"  "       No.  2, 60. 

"       Salt,  59. 
Mullet,  Baked,  61. 

Mullets  or  Small  Fish  a  la  Livornese, 
54. 
"       with  Sauce  Piquante,  54. 
Oyster  Fritters,  62. 
"      Loaves,  61. 
"      Omelette,  63. 
"      Patties,  62. 
"      Pie,  63. 
"        "     Baltimore,  63. 
"      Salad,  64. 
"      Sausages,  67. 
"      Toast,  66,  83. 
Oysters  a  la  Certosa,  68. 
"       Boiled,  65. 
"       Cream,  on  Half-Shell,  62. 
<;       Fricasseed,  64. 
"       Fried,  64. 
"  "      Delmonico's,  68. 

"      Griddled,  65. 
"       Mince,  66. 
"       Panned,  65. 
"       Pickled,  67. 
"       Raw,  61. 
"       Roast,  62. 
"       Scalloped,  64. 

on  the  Half-Shell,  64. 
"      Steamed,  65. 


Oysters,  Stewed,  No.  1,  66. 
".       No.  2,  66. 
"       to  Broil,  65. 
"       to  Feed,  61. 
"       Virginia  Spiced,  67. 
Pickerel,  Cream,  72. 

"        Fried,  77. 
Pike,  Roast,  59. 
Poinpano,  83. 
Prawns,  Currv  of,  57. 
Rockfish,  72. " 

"        Crabbed,  73." 

Soused,  75. 
"        Stewed,  81. 
Salmon  a  la  Creole,  71. 
"       Baked,  70. 
"      Boiled,  70. 
"  "       Cold,  57. 

"       Broiled  k  la  Creole,  69. 
"       Pickled,  71. 
"      Roast  a  la  Creole,  72. 
'•'       Smoked  a  la  Creole,  72. 
"      Soused,  75. 
"       Steaks,  71. 
"       to  Cook,  73. 
Salmon-trout,  Baked,  72. 
"  Boiled,  72. 

Scallops,  Fried,  51. 
Sea  Bass,  Stewed,  73. 
Shad,  Baked,  74. 
"     Boiled,  74. 
"     Broiled,  74. 
"     Corned,  76. 
"      Pickled,  76. 
"      Planked,  74. 
"      Potted,  74. 
"      Roast,  69. 
Sheepshead,  74. 
Shrimp  Mayonnaise,  68. 

"       Pie,  49. 
Shrimps  au  Gratin  a  la  Creole,  76. 
"        Boiled,  «  76. 

Pickled,  "  76. 

<;        Stewed  in  Tomatoes,  77. 
Smelts,  Fried,  77. 
Sole,  a  la  Normandie,  81. 
"     a  la  Parisienne,  69. 
Sturgeon,  Roast,  54. 

"  "      h  la  Creole,  71. 

Terrapin,  to  Keep,  77. 
Terrapins,  Delaware  Receipt  for  Cook-> 
ing,  79. 
"         Maryland  Receipt  for  Cook? 
ing,  78. 


604 


INDEX. 


Terrapins,    Philadelphia     Receipt     for 
Cooking,  78. 
"  Stewed,  Eastern  Shore,  79. 

Trout,  Broiled  in  Paper,  72. 
"      Brook,  46. 
"      Fried,  77. 


Trout,  Stuffed,  60. 

White  Bait  with  Sauce  Piquante,  54. 
Whitings,  Broiled,  80. 
"         Fried,  81. 

"  "     Fillets  of,  with  Truffles, 

80. 


MEATS. 


Beef. 


Beef  a  la  Mode,  99. 

"  "         Old  Humphrey's,  89. 

"    and  Tomato  Stew,  95. 

"    Baked,  87. 

"    Balls,  Russian,  91. 

"    Breakfast  Stew  of,  96. 

"    Collops,  88. 

«    Corned,  91. 

"  "       Hash,  95. 

"    Dried  Smoked,  and  Eggs,  96. 

"    Feet  Stewed  for  Breakfast,  100. 

"    Grated,  97. 

"    Hash,  95. 

"    Heart,  96. 

"    Hunter's,  Gloucestershire,  90. 

'    Pie,  Potato  Crust,  94. 

"    Rib  Piece  of,  a  la  Marseillaise,  101. 

"  "  with  Mushrooms,  98. 

"    Roast,  on  the  Spit,  86. 

"    Robart,  88. 

"    Rolled,  95. 

"    Spiced,  90. 

"    Stewed  Fillet  of,  with  Mushrooms, 
92. 

"    Stewed  Fillet  of,  with  Raisins,  92. 

"         "       Rump  of,  88. 

"    Tongue,  97. 

"  "        (Guillaume's  Receipt),  98. 

"  "        Sauce  Piquante,  99. 

"  "       Smothered  in  Mushrooms, 

99. 
Beefsteak  and  Onions,  93. 
"         Broiled,  93. 
"         Pie,  94. 
"         Stewed,  88. 
Birds  without  Bones  a  la  Bertini,  100. 
Bouilli,  98. 

"       en  Quenelles,  97. 
"       Persellade  of,  97. 
Meat  Pies,  Crust  for,  94. 
Meats,  Roasting,  85. 

«  "         Time-table  for,  85. 

"      the  Best  Way  to  Heat  Cold,  101. 


Sirloin  a  la  Godard,  101. 
Stew,  Irish,  95. 

"      Poor  Man's,  97. 
Tenderloin  a  la  Broche,  100. 

"  Steaks,    Sautis    a    Champi- 

gnon, 100. 
Tripe,  Fricasseed,  98. 
"      Fried,  98. 
"      How  to  Prepare,  101. 
Turnovers,  100. 
Yorkshire  Pudding,  No.  1,  87. 
"  "        No.  2, 87. 

"  "        No.  3, 87. 

Vkal. 

Calf's  Head,  Stewed,  111. 

Calves'  Brains,  Cromesquis  of,  112. 

"  "       in  Shells,  112. 

Kidneys,  Ragout  of,  109. 
Liver,  "Fried,  109. 

"     Imitation  Pates  de  Foie  Gras  of, 

110. 
"      Pate  of  Calf's,  108. 
"      Roasted,  110. 
"      Stewed,  109. 

«  "      (Florentine  Fashion),  110. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes,  114. 

"  "         a  la  Creole,  104. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Blanchette,  115. 
"  a  la  Financiere,  114. 

"  a  la  Virginie,  114. 

Fried,  113. 
Roast,  112. 
"  Stewed,  113. 

Tomatille,  104. 
Veal-and-Ham  Pie,  103. 
"     Blanquette  of,  105. 
"     Boullets,  104. 
"     Chops,  102. 

"     Cooked  in  its  own  Juice,  106. 
"     Cutlets,  Bordelaise,  109. 
"       .   "       en  Papillotes,  108. 
"     Fricandeau  of,  106. 
{;     Galantine,  105, 
"     Grillade  a  la  Creole,  107, 


INDEX. 


605 


Veal,  Grillade,  No.  2,  108. 
"     Minced,  103. 
"     Ragout  of,  106. 
"     Roast  Loin  of,  102. 

"      with  Fine  Herbs,  107. 
"     Round  of,  with  Anchovies,  107. 
"     Sausage  a  la  Baviere,  102. 
"     Scalloped,  104. 
"     Steak,  102. 

Mutton. 
Cutlets  a  la  Milanaise,  121. 
"      a  la  Victime,  120. 
"      a  la  Vinaigrette,  121. 
'    "      Broiled,  117. 
"      Stewed,  117. 
"      Veiled,  121. 
Hochepot,  119. 
Mutton  Chops,  117. 
"       Ham,  116. 
"       Leg  of,  Baked,  with  Anchovies 

and  Ham,  119. 
"       Leg  of,  Boiled,  a  la  Anglaise, 
118. 
"      Stuffed  Roast,  120. 
"  "      Two   Dishes  from   One, 

118. 
"       Pate,  Blakeley,  119. 
"       Saddle  of,  Roast,  a  la  Virginie, 
116. 
with  Parsley,  120. 
"      Steak,  118. 
Stew,  120. 

Stewed  Breast  of,  119. 
"       Tongues,  120. 

with  Tomatoes,  120. 
Sheep  Kidneys,  118. 

Lamb. 
Lamb  a  la  Poulette,  122. 
"     Fillets  of,  a  la  Bechamel,  122. 
"      General  Directions  for  Cooking, 

122. 
"      Quarter  of,  Larded  and  Roasted, 
122. 

Pork. 
Backbone,  135. 
Bacon,  Virginia,  132. 
Blood  Pudding,  137. 
Boudin  Blanc^  138. 
Brawn,  130. 


Chine,  Roast,  124. 
Ham-and-Chicken  Pie,  130. 
"  "  Sandwiches,  129. 

'•     and  Eggs,  128. 
"     Baked,  126. 
"     Barbecued,  127. 
"     Boiled,  No.  1,  125. 
"      No.  2,  126. 
"     Broiled,  128. 
"  "       au  Gratin,  128. 

"     Fried,  128. 

"      Cold,  128. 
"     Ground,  Sandwiches,  128, 
"     Roast,  No.  1,  126. 
"      No.  2,  127. 
"     Sandwiches,  128. 
"     Sliced,  Tomato  Sauce,  138. 
"         "       with  Cream  Sauce,  138. 
"     Steamed,  126. 
"     Toast,  139. 
Hams,  to  Cure,  132. 
Headcheese,  129. 
Hog's  Head,  Stuffed,  137. 
Hopping  John,  131. 
Lard,  129. 

"     to  Try  Out,  129. 
Pig,  Austrian  Roast,  123. 
"    Young,  Roasted,  123. 
Pig's  Feet,  Kentucky  Fried,  137. 
"  Soused,  135. 

Truffled,  135. 
Pig's  Head,  Smothered,  136. 
Pig's  Liver,  Pate  of,  138. 
Pork  and  Beans,  124, 125. 
"     and  Pease  Pudding,  125. 
"     General  Directions,  123. 
"     Leg  of  Fresh,  Stuffed  and  Roasted, 

136. 
"     Loin  of,  Roasted,  123. 
"     Pickled,  132. 
"     Pie,  Cheshire,  131. 
"       "     Yorkshire,  131. 
"     Potpie,  130. 
Sausage,  Bologna,  134. 
"        Lyons,  135. 

Meat,  No.  1  (Virginia),  133. 
'«;    No.  2  "  133. 

"      No.  3, 134. 
"      No.  4,  134. 
Sausages,  Truffled,  a  la  Creole,  136. 
Saveloys,  131. 
Sparerib,  Roast,  124. 


606 


INDEX. 


POULTRY. 


Capon  a  la  Creme,  147. 

"      with  Malaga  Wine,  146. 
"      with  Truffles,  146. 
Chicken  and  Tomatoes,  142. 
Boiled,  141. 
Breasts,  145. 
"        Fricasseed,  Brown,  141. 

White,  No.  1, 141. 
"      No.  2,  141. 
Fried,  144. 
Pie,  144. 
"  "    (Albany  Receipt),  142.      , 

Pillau,  143. 

"       Baked,  144. 
"       Florida,  143. 
Potpie,  142. 
"        Pressed,  144. 
Pudding,  143. 
"        Roast,  141. 

Spring,  Broiled,  141. 
"        Stewed,  with  White  Stuffing, 
145. 
Duck,  Roast,  Stuffed  with  Celery,  147. 
"       with  Olives,  153. 
"      Stewed,  150. 


Ducks,  Salted,  148. 

Game,  Directions  for  Roasting,  140. 

Goose  Pie,  148. 

"      Roasted,  148. 
Guinea  Fowls,  Roast,  148. 
Pigeon  Pie,  149. 
Pigeons,  Boned,  149. 

"        or  Squabs,  Broiled,  149. 

"        Roast,  149. 

"        Stewed,  150. 
Poultry,  Directions  for  Roasting,  140. 

"  "         General,  140. 

Turkey  alia  Triestina,  153. 
Boiled,  154. 

"       Boned,  154. 

"  "       Imitation,  154. 

"       Bruised,  151. 

"        Devilled,  155. 
Jellied,  153. 

"       Pressed  in  Jelly,  153. 

"        Roast,  151. 

-"  "     with  Plum-pudding  Stuff- 

ing, 151. 

"        Scalloped,  155. 
Wild,  151. 


GAME. 


Birds,  Roast,  with  Hasty  Pudding  a.  la 
Verona,  170. 
"      Small,  Roast,  171. 
Brunswick  Stew,  170. 
Caille  de  Laurier,  156. 
Chaudfroid,  159. 
Duck  with  Olives,  158. 

"     Salmi  of,  Cold,  159. 
Ducks,  Canvas-back,  157. 
"       Teal,  158. 
"      Wild,  156,  157. 
"      Roast,  173. 
Fawn,  Roast,  173. 
Game,  Broiled,  158. 

Cold,  in  Mayonnaise,  163. 
Directions  for  Roasting,  140. 

General,  140. 
Pie,  160. 

Salmi  Glace,  159. 
"      of,  158. 
"      No.  2,  159. 
to  Preserve,  Untainted,  156. 
with  Puree  of  Green  Pease,  163. 
Goose,  Salmi  of,  Cold,  159. 


Gras  Grasses,  156. 
Hare,  Jugged,  160. 

"      Stewed,  a  la  Minute,  166. 
Hares,  169. 

"      en  Papillotes,  166. 
Ortolans,  156,  165. 

"         Roast,  160. 
Partridge,  Broiled,  161. 

and  Breaded,  163. 
Grilled,  162. 
"         in  Mayonnaise,  163. 

Pie,  161. 
"         Roast,  161. 
"         with  Chestnuts,  162. 
"         with  Puree  of  Green  Pease, 
163. 
Perdrix  aux  Choux,  Louis's,  161. 
Pheasant,  Roast,  164. 

"  "    a  le  Brillat  Savarin,  163. 

"  "    English  Style,  164. 

"         Stewed  in  Malaga  Wine,  164. 
Pigeon  Pie,  Wild,  157. 
Plover,  Roast,  171. 
Prairie  Chickens,  Roast,  165. 


INDEX. 


607 


Prairie  Chickens,  Chipolata  of,  165. 
Quail,  165. 

"      Broiled,  165. 

"      Fie,  163. 

"      Koast,  Larded,  166. 

"      Roasted  with  Ham,  177. 
Rabbit,  Barbecued,  167. 

"       Broiled,  168. 

"       Fricasseed,  168. 

"       Fried,  166. 

"       Pie,  166. 

"       Ragout  of,  167. 

"       Roast,  168. 

"       Stew,  a  la  Minute,  166. 

"  "     Catahoula,  168. 

Rabbits,  169. 

"        en  Papillotes,  166. 
Rail,  165. 

Reed  Birds,  156, 165. 
Snipe  en  Salmis,  162. 

"     Puree  of,  a  la  Creole,  169. 

"     Roast,  171. 
Sora,  165. 


Squabs  in  Olives,  157. 
Squirrels,  Broiled,  169. 

"        Ragout  of,  169. 
Turkey,  Wild,  151, 176. 
Venison,  171. 

"        Chops,  176. 

"        Cutlets,  173. 

"        Ham,  174. 

"        Haunch  of,  Baked,  172. 

"  Roasted,  171. 

"        Neck  of,  Roasted,  172. 
"        Pasty,  175. 
"  "      Crust  for,  175. 

"        Ragout  of,  Cold,  173. 
"        Roast,  Gravy  for,  172. 
"        Sausages,  174. 
"        Shoulder  of,  Roasted,  172. 
"         Stewed,  172. 
'  "         Steaks,  Plain,  176. 
"  "       with  Sauce,  176. 

Woodcock,  Broiled,  165. 

"         Roast,  No.  1, 171. 
"  "      No.  2,  171. 


VEGETABLES. 


Artichokes  a  la  Provenc,ale,  179. 
"         Boiled,  179. 
"         Broiled,  180. 
"         Farcis  demi  Barigoule,  179. 
"         Fricasseed,  179. 
"         Fried,  178. 
"         Jerusalem,  Baked,  180. 
"  "         Boiled,  180. 

"         Stuffed,  179. 
"         Truffled,  a  la  Verona,  179. 
Asparagus  and  Eggs,  181. 
"         Boiled,  180. 
"         Hop  Tops  served  as,  199. 
"         in  Ambush,  181. 
"         Nettles  served  as,  199. 
Beets,  Boiled,  182. 
"      in  Vinegar,  182. 
"      Stewed,  No.  1,  182. 
"        No.  2,  182. 
Beans,  Dried,  183. 
<;    '  French,  182. 
"      Lima,  183. 

"      Kidney  and  other  Small,  183. 
"      String,  No.  1,  182. 
"  «       No.  2,  182. 

Broccoli,  187. 

"        and  Eggs,  187. 
Brussels  Sprouts,  187. 


Cabbage  and  Bacon,  183. 
"        Boiled,  185. 
"        Fried,  185. 
"       Ladies',  184. 
"        Sprouts,  or  Collards,  184. 
"        Stuffed,  a.  la  Creole,  184. 
Cauliflower  a  la  Reine,  187. 
"  au  Gratin,  188. 

"  Boiled,  186. 

"  Scalloped,  187. 

"  Stewed,  186. 

Carrots.  Mashed,  188. 

"     '  Stewed,  No.  1,  188. 
"        No.  2,  188. 
Chfccory,  Stewed,  195. 
Corn  and  Tomatoes,  190. 
"     Fritters,  191. 
"     Green,  Boiled,  190. 
"  "      Roasted,  190. 

"  "       Stewed,  190. 

"     Hulled,  191. 
"     Pie,  191. 
"     Pudding,  191. 

"     Sweet,  as  Prepared  by  Indians,  191. 
Cucumbers,  Baked,  188. 

»  "        Stuffed,  189. 

"  Fried,  188. 

"  "       a  la  Italienne,  189. 


608 


INDEX. 


Cucumbers,  Raw,  189. 

"  Stewed,  189. 

Dandelions,  198. 
Egg-plant,  Fried,  192. 

"  Scalloped,  192. 

Stuffed,  a  la  Creole,  192. 
General  Rules  for  Cooking,  178. 
Hominy,  Baked,  193. 

"         Boiled,  Large,  192. 
"  "       Small,  193. 

"         Browned,  193. 
"         Croquettes,  193. 
"        Fried,  193. 
Kale-cannon,  211. 

Lettuce  a  la  Creme  or  a  la  Chartreuse, 
194. 
"       au  Jus,  194. 
"       Stewed,  194. 
"       Stuffed,  194. 
Mushroom  Loaf,  197. 
"         Toast,  198. 
Mushrooms  a  la  Russe,  197. 
"  Baked,  198. 

"  Broiled,  196. 

"  Roast,  No.  1,  198. 

"  "      No.  2,  198. 

"  Rules  for  Cooking,  195. 

"  ScaUoped,  196. 

"  Steamed,  No.  1, 196. 

"  "         No.  2,  196. 

"  Stewed,  No.  1,  195. 

"  "        No.  2, 195. 

"  "       No.  3, 195. 

Nettles,  198. 
Ochra,  211. 
Onions,  Baked,  200. 
"       Boiled,  199. 
"       Stewed,  199. 
"       Stuffed,  200. 
Parsnips,  Boiled,  201. 
"        Buttered,  201. 
"        Fried,  201. 
"        Fritters,  201. 
"        Mashed,  202. 
Pea  Fritters  or  Cakes,  200. 
Pease,  Green,  201. 
Peppers,  Bell,  192. 
Potato  Balls,  206. 

"      Cakes,  No.  1,  208. 
"       No.  2,  208. 
"      Hav,  209. 
<:      Marbles,  206. 
"      Ribbon,  209. 
"      Scallops,  207. 


Potato  Souffle,  206. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  de  Hotel,  204. 

"        Baked,  204. 

"        Boiled  in  their  Skins,  203. 

"  "     without  their  Skins,  203i 

(i        Broiled,  208. 

"        Browned,  with  Dripping,  206. 

"        Curled,  205. 

"        Desiree's,  204. 

"       Fried,  No.  1,  208. 
"      No.  2,  208. 

"        Lyonnaise,  207. 

"        Mashed,  209. 

"  "        Browned,  No.  1,  209. 

"  "         No.  2,  209. 

"       New,  202. 

"        Piquant,  a  la  Baviere,  208. 

"       Roast,  203. 

"  "      Soyer's,  203. 

"        Saratoga,"206. 

"        Sausage,  Soyer's,  205. 

"        Stewed,  with  Cream,  204. 

«        Stuffed,  No.  1,  205. 

"«  "       No.  2, 205. 

"       Sweet,  Baked,  210. 

"  "      Broiled,  210. 

"  "      Fried,  210. 

"  "      Roast,  210. 

"  "      with  Cream,  210. 

"        to  Boil,  202. 

"        to  Choose,  202. 

"        to  Cook,  202. 

"       Tossed,  207. 

"        Watery,  202. 

"        with  Ham,  207. 
Pumpkin,  Baked,  212. 

"         Stewed,  211. 
Rice,  Boiled,  210. 

"     Croquettes,  211. 
Salsifv,  Stewed,  189. 
Samp*  Boiled,  192. 
Sauerkraut,  185. 
Sea-kale,  Boiled,  211. 

"         Stewed,  211. 
Spinach  a  la  Creme,  212. 

"       Boiled,  213. 
Squash,  Baked,  212. 
"       Boiled,  212. 
"       Stuffed,  192. 
"       Summer,  or  Cymbling,  212. 
"       Winter,  212.  " 
Succotash,  No.  1,  190. 
No.  2,  190. 
Tomatoes  and  Eggs,  215. 


INDEX. 


609 


Tomatoes  and  Green  Corn,   Scalloped, 
215. 
"         and  Ochra,  214. 
"  "  Scallop  of,  214. 

44         and  Rice,  Scallop  of,  214. 
Baked,  216. 

"       Sliced,  216. 
"       Stuffed,  215. 


[  Tamatoes,  Broiled,  216. 
Fried,  216. 

"      Stuffed,  216. 
"  Raw,  216. 

Scalloped,  215. 
Stewed,  214. 
\  Turnips,  Mashed,  213. 
i        "        Young,  Boiled  Whole,  214. 


MACARONI. 


Lambkins,  Tuscan,  222. 
Lasagne,  Genoese,  222. 
Macaroni,  a  l'Abeille,  220. 

a  l'Amalfi,  221. 

a  la  Richelieu,  220. 

a  la  Sorrento,  221. 
"         Baked,  with  Cheese,  218. 

Home-made,  217. 

Jugged,  219. 


Macaroni,  Panned,  222. 
Plain,  217. 
"         Stew  and  Brown  Gravy,  217. 
Stuffed,  219. 

Timbale  of,  and  Chicken,  220. 
"         with  Giblet  Sauce,  219. 
"         with  Liver,  218. 
"         with  Tomato  Sauce,  217. 
Tortelli  alia  Bolognese,  221. 


SALADS. 


Bloaters,  Pickled,  227. 
Cauliflower  Slaw,  232. 
Coleslaw,  228. 

"         Mamie's,  232. 
Mayonnaise,  224. 

Blakely  Egg,  227. 
"  Cream,  224. 

Salad.  Artichoke,  227. 
"      Baked  Bean,  228. 
"      Beet,  227. 
"      Celery,  229. 
"      Cheese,  230. 
"      Chicken,  230. 
"      Cucumber.  229. 
"      Dressing,  Rules  for,  224. 
"  "       Svdnev  Smith's  Receipt 

"for,  225. 
"      Dutch,  226. 


Salad, 


Lettuce,  229. 
Lobster,  230. 
Mixed  Summer,  229. 
Parisienne,  230. 
Potato  and  Herring,  228. 

"       Plain,  228. 
Russian,  225. 
Salmon,  230. 
String-Bean,  228. 
Tomato,  229. 

Truffle,  a  la  Toulousaine,  231. 
Black,  a  la  Russe,  231. 
Water-cress,  230. 
Sauce  for  Coleslaw,  Philadelphia, 

No.  1,  232. 
Sauce  for  Coleslaw,  Philadelphia, 

No.  2,  232. 
Sauce,  Marian,  232. 


CHEESE. 


Cheese  Aigrettes,  235. 
"      Devils,  234. 
<;      Piedmontese.  Sticks,  236. 
"      Potted.  No.  1,  237. 
"       No.  2,  237. 
"      Ramakins  of,  237. 
"      Roasted,  237. 
"      Rolls,  238.- 
"      Salad.  234. ' 


Cheese,  Scallop,  237. 
"      Souffle,  236. 
"      Stirabout,  238. 
"      Straws,  No.  1,  238. 
No.  2,  238. 
Parmesan  Fondue,  234. 
Ramequins  de  Dijon,  239, 
Rarebit,  Irish,  238. 

Welsh,  a  la  Braine,  235. 


26* 


610 


INDEX. 


EGGS. 


Egg  Baskets,  242. 
Eggs  a  la  Moutglas,  243. 

"  a  la  Parisienne,  242. 

"  a  la  Vallombrosa,  247. 

"  a  Zabagone,  248. 

4i  al  Piatto,  246. 

"  au  Lit,  244. 

"  Baked,  241. 

"  Bird's-Nest  of,  250. 

"  Boiled,  240. 

"  Breaded,  244. 

«  Curried,  248. 

"  Devilled.  248. 

"  Farcied,  242. 

"  Fricasseed.  244. 

"  Fried  in  Round  Balls,  244. 

"  Jumbled,  with  Shrimps,  243. 

"  Pickled,  245. 

"  Plover's,  in  a  Nest  of  Butter,  243 

"  Poached,  240. 

"  "         a  la  Creme,  240. 

"  Puffed,  246. 

"  Roasted  in  their  Shells,  245. 

"  Scalloped,  241. 

"  Snow,  247. 

"  Soft,  with  Anchovy  Butter,  242. 


Eggs,  Scrambled,  241. 
"     Stirred,  on  Mounds,  241. 
"     Stuffed,  250. 
"     Tenderloin,  250. 
"     to  Choose,  240. 
"     Truffled,  249. 
"     Wisconsin,  246. 
"     with  Tomato  Sauce,  242. 
"     with  Truffles,  247. 
Fondue,  249. 
Omelet,  Cauliflower,  251. 
Hunter's,  250. 
Plain,  251. 
"       with  Artichokes,  252. 
"       with  Asparagus,  251. 
"       with  Ham,  Tongue,  Chicken,  or 

Smoked  Beef,  252. 
"       with  Mushrooms,  252. 
"        with  Oysters,  252. 
"       with  Tomatoes,  252. 
Omelette  a  l'Allemonde,  251, 
-     "        a  la  Lyonnaise,  250. 
au  Thun,  249. 
"        aux  Fines  Herbes,  251. 
Pannikins,  245. 
Spanish  Gold  Foam,  248. 


MILK  AND  BUTTER. 


Bonny  Clabber,  257. 
Butter,  Fresh,  253. 

"      General  Rules  for  Attending  to, 

253. 
"      Salt,  254. 
"         "     to  Keep,  254. 
Cheese,  Cottage,  or  Pot,  256. 
"       Cream,  New  Jersey,  256. 
"       Old  Virginia,  255. 
Neufchatel,  256. 
Cream  Curds,  Devonshire,  258. 
Clotted,  Devonshire,  258. 


Fromage  a  la  Creme,  Vrai,  No.  1,  254. 
No.  2,  255. 
No.  3,  255. 
Junket,  256. 

Milk,  General  Rules  for  Attending  to, 
253. 
"     Loppered,  257. 
"     Thickened,  257. 
Rennet,  254, 
Syllabub  Posset,  258. 

"        Somersetshire,  257. 
Staffordshire,  257. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 


Bread,  Batter,  271. 

"      Brown,  Lowell,  265. 

New  England,  263. 

William  Perm's,  263. 
"  "       Wisconsin,  Steamed,  265. 

"  "       with  Indian  Meal,  266. 

"  "       with  Potatoes,  266. 

"       Buttermilk,  264. 


Bread,  Granny's,  283. 

"      General  Directions  for  Making, 

259. 
"      General  Rules.  261. 
"       Graham,  No.  1,  265. 
"        No.  2;  265. 
No.  3,  266. 
"       Made  Soft  and  Quickly,  263. 


INDEX. 


611 


Bread,  Milk,  264. 
"      Passover,  271. 
"      Rice,  264. 
"      Rye  and  Indian,  265. 
"      Short,  Old-fashioned,  278. 
"  "      Scotch,  277. 

"      Sponge,  260. 
"  "         Mary  Anne's,  261. 

"       White  Family,  No.  1,  261. 
"       No.  2,  262. 
Briache,  285. 
Buns,  Hot  Cross,  284. 
Biscuit,  Brown  Bread,  269. 
Buttermilk,  267. 
"       Captain's,  271. 
"       Fayal,  271. 
"      Flannel,  267. 
"       Graham,  268. 

Wafer,  268. 
"       Light,  267. 
"       Orange,  271. 
"       Raised,  269. 
"       Soda.  268. 
"       Wafer,  270. 
Cake,  Corn,  Dinah's,  283. 
"         "      Maryland.  281. 
"      Indian,  Baltimore,  281. 
"       Little,  281. 
"       Marv  Anne's,  283. 
"      Milk,  269. 

"     Mush,  Aunt  Ginny's,  283. 
"      Potato,  275. 
"     Rye-flour  Drop,  267. 
"      Short,  Shaker's,  278. 

'•      Strawberry,  278. 
"      Tea,  274. 
Crumpets,  269. 
Flour,  to  Choose,  259. 
Gems,  275. 
Johnnv  Cake.  South  Carolina  Rice,  No. 

1,  283. 

"  South  Caroliua  Rice,  No. 

2,  283. 
Xantippe,  286. 

Laplanders,  270. 
Loaves,  Tea,  269. 
Marylanders,  270. 
Moonshine,  285. 
Muffins,  270. 


Muffins,  Bread,  272. 

Buttermilk,  272. 
"        Cream,  274. 

Corn,  282. 
"        Corn  meal,  282. 
"        Flour,  274. 

Griddle,  273. 
"        Hominy,  272. 
"        Indian,"  282, 
"        Madison,  274. 
Oven,  273. 
Rice,  272. 
Soft,  273. 
Pikelets,  274. 
Pone,  Manland,  286. 

"     Rice,  284. 
Popovers,  285. 
Quinimies  (Mme.  Eugene),  285. 

"         Virginia,  285. 
Rolls,  Betty's,  276. 

"      Bread  Biscuit,  268. 

"      General  Washington's  Breakfast, 

275. 
"      Pacific,  275. 
"      Parker  House,  276. 
"      Potato,  275. 
"      Tea,  276. 
Rusk,  276. 
"      Corn,  282. 
"      Dried,  277. 
Sally  Lunn,  284. 
Scones,  Scotch  Flour,  279. 

"  "      Oatmeal,  279. 

Slappers,  Indian,  281. 
Waffles,  Beaupres,  280. 

"        Grandmamma  N.'s,  272. 
"       Hominv,  272. 

Indian  Meal,  281. 
Minute,  280. 
No.  1,  279. 
No.  2,  279. 
"       Rice  and  Commeal,  280. 
"    No.  1,280. 
'•    No.  2,  280. 
Yeast  Cakes,  Mother's,  279. 
"      for  Bread,  260. 
"      Potato,  260. 
"      to  Choose,  259. 
"      without  Hops,  260. 


GRIDDLE-CAKES. 


Cakes,  Buckwheat,  No.  1,  287. 
No.  2,  288. 


Cakes,  Buckwheat,  No.  3,  288. 
"      Cream,  289. 


612 


INDEX. 


Cakes,  Flannel,  No.  1,  290. 
No.  2,  290. 
"      Graham,  290. 
"      Griddle,  Corn,  288. 
"  "        Rye  and  Indian,  290. 

"  "        Vanity,  290. 

"  "        Virginia  Batter,  289. 

"      Indian-Meal  Batter,  288. 
"      Indian-Meal  Flannel,  288. 


Cakes,  Rice-Flour  or  Velvet,  289. 
General  Directions,  287. 
Grandpa's  Favorites,  289. 
Pancakes,  Cream,  291. 

"         Hominy,  290. 

"         Mary  Anne's,  291. 

"         New  England  Breakfast, 

"         Swedish,  291. 

"  "        with  Jam,  291. 


288. 


DESSERT  PANCAKES,  DUMPLINGS,  AND  FRITTERS. 


Roulettes,  296. 
Dumplings,  Apple,  292. 

"  <:      Baked,  293. 

"  Molasses,  293. 

"  Potato-crust,  293. 

White,  292. 
Fritters,  Apple,  293. 
Cake,  295. 
"        Dinah's,  294. 

"       Frying,  General  Directions  for, 
292. 


Fritters,  Golden  Ball,  295. 

"        Orange,  294. 

"        Passover,  294. 

"        Paste  for,  296. 

"        Pink.  295. 

"        Rice,  294. 

"        Thanksgiving,  295. 
Pancakes,    Frving,    General  Directions 

for,  292. 
Toast,  German  or  Queen's,  296. 
Tortillas,  296. 


CAKE. 


Balls 

Lafayette  Ginger,  324. 

Cak( 

;,  Dover,  309. 

Cake 

,  Almond,  300. 

" 

Dream,  298. 

ii 

"         Loaf,  299. 

" 

Election,  312. 

(( 

Angel,  332. 

cc 

Fruit,  Continental,  307. 

" 

Bachelor's,  302. 

" 

"      Dinah's,  307. 

" 

Blueberry  Short,  324. 

" 

"      Plain,  305. 

tt 

Buckeye,  301. 

(( 

General  Directions  for,  297. 

a 

Caramel,  299. 

" 

Gold,  311. 

tt 

Cheese,  Almond,  318. 

" 

Heart,  Jennie  Dean's,  322. 

tt 

•"       Curd,  Devonshire,  319. 

." 

Hickorv-nut,  300. 

a 

"           "      Yorkshire,  319. 

it 

Hurrv,*823. 

a 

"       Lemon,  319. 

it 

Jelly,'  310. 

a 

"            "      Philadelphia,  319. 

" 

Lady,  322. 

u 

Chocolate,  304. 

" 

Lee,  308. 

it 

Christmas,  304. 

it 

Lemon,  300. 

a 

Cocoanut,  303. 

" 

Lightning  Express,  802. 

" 

"         Loaf,  303. 

" 

Lincoln,  309. 

a 

"         Old-fashioned,  320. 

« 

Loaf,  Dark,  308. 

tt 

"         White,  304. 

« 

"     Plain,  306. 

" 

Coffee,  301. 

tt 

Madison's  Whim,  311. 

" 

Composition,  332. 

" 

Magdalen,  332. 

it 

Cream,  Boston,  318. 

a 

Marble,  311. 

" 

"       Dinah's,  302. 

" 

Meg  Dodd's,  322. 

tt 

"       Maine,  301. 

" 

New-Year's,  322. 

" 

"       Raisin,  333. 

it 

Plum,  Small  Rich,  303. 

" 

"       Sponge,  308. 

tt 

Orange,  Florida,  310. 

(( 

Cup,  Boston,  301. 

it 

"       Vermont,  310. 

" 

"      Dinah's,  302. 

" 

Pistachio-nut,  299. 

INDEX. 


613 


Cake,  Pound,  309. 

"  "      Hocus-pocus,  813. 

"       Ginger,  313. 
"  "      Indian-Meal,  313. 

"  "      Cocoanut,  Kansas,  312. 

"      Molasses,  312. 
"  "      Mrs.  Washington's,  312. 

"     Queen's,  306. 
"     Republican,  308. 
"     Rhode  Island,  315. 
"     Savarin,  313. 
"     Seed,  322. 
"     Silver,  311. 
"     Sponge,  a  la  Virginie,  315. 

"       Perfection,  314. 
"     Scotch,  321. 
"     Spice,  Dinah's,  307. 
"     Sunshine,  333. 
"     Thanksgiving,  300. 
"     Watermelon,  333. 
"     White  Mountain,  315. 
Cakes,  Fried,  315-317. 
"      Small,  318-328. 
Chocolate,  Eclairs  of,  305. 
Cookies,  Mary  Anne's,  326. 
Rose,  321. 
"        Sugar,  320. 
Water,  320. 
Crackers,  Ginger,  No.  1,  321. 
"       No.  2,  321. 
Cream,  Eclairs  of,  305. 
"       for  Filling,  318. 
Cones,  Cocoanut,  320. 
Crullers,  316. 

Plainer,  316. 
Risen,  315. 


Doughnuts,  Quick,  317. 
Risen,  317. 
Drops,  Cocoanut,  323. 
Gingerbread,  Fruit,  330. 
Plain,  331. 
Soft,  No.  1,  329. 
"     No.  2,  329. 
"  Spiced,  No.  1,  331. 

"  "       No.  2,  331. 

"       No.  3,  331. 
Sponge,  330. 
Ginger-nuts,  321. 
Icing,  Almond,  329.. 
"      Boiled,  328. 
"      Chocolate,  329. 
"      Quick,  328. 
Jumbles,  Almond,  328. 
"        Cream,  327. 
Lemon,  328. 
"        Philadelphia,  327. 
Macaroons,  323. 

Shellbark,  324. 
Olicooks,  Albany,  317. 
Pone,  Sweet-Polato,  329. 
Prealaters,  Passover,  324. 
Schnee  Wandeln,  327. 
Snaps,  Ginger,  Old  Humphrey's,  325. 
"  "  "  Orange, 

325. 
"  "        Virginia,  325. 

Wafer,  325. 
Stickeys,  323. 
Wafers,  Almond,  326. 
"       Marv  Anne's,  326. 
"       No.  1,326. 
"       No.  2,  326. 


PASTRY. 


Galette  Italienne,  337. 
General  Directions,  335. 
Mince-meat,  Apple,  341. 
"  Beeton,  346. 

Mock,  346. 
Philadelphia,  345. 
Pan  Dowdy,  341. 
Paste,  Leaf,  336. 

"     Transparent,  337. 
"      Puff,  338. 
"         "     French,  338. 
Pie,  Apple,  Custard.  340, 
"       Green,  339. 
"        "       Imitation,  341. 
"        "       Madison,  340. 


Apple,  Meringue,  339. 

"       Plain,  339. 

"       Rich,  339. 

"       Thanksgiving,  340. 
Bakewell,  344. 

Blackberrv-and-Huckleberry,  351. 
Cherrv,  No.  1,  348. 

"  *    No.  2,  348. 
Cocoanut,  No.  1,  344. 
No.  2,  344. 
Cranberry,  352. 
Cream,  342. 

"        Chocolate,  No.  1,  343. 

»  "  No.  2,  343. 

"       Cocoanut,  344. 


614 


INDEX. 


Pie,  Cream,  Lemon,  342. 
"  "  Orange,  341. 
"  "       Raspberry,  351. 

"    Crust,  Plain,  335. 
"        "  "      Raised,  338. 

"    Currant,  351. 
"    Custard,  343. 
"    Fruit,  Austrian,  345. 
"    Lemon,  No.  1,  845. 
No.  2,  345. 
"    Mince,  346. 
"        "       Edinburgh,  347. 
"    Missionary,  347. 
"    Orange.  850. 
"    Peach,  347. 

"       Dried,  348. 

"       Preserved,  348. 
"        "       Canned  Peaches,  348. 

"       Meringue,  348. 
"    Pineapple,  840. 
"    Pumpkin,  No.  1,  349. 
"  "         No.  2, 350. 


Pie,  Pumpkin,  No.  3,  350. 

"  Plum,  Preserved,  352. 

"  "       Ripe,  352. 

"  Raisin,  350. 

"  Raspberrv,  851. 

"  Rhubarb,"  353. 

"  Squash,  Pickering,  349. 

"  Sweet-Potato,  348. 

"  Yam,  349. 
Tart,    Blackberry  -  and  -  Huckleberry, 
351. 

"  Cherry,  Preserved,  351. 

"  Cream,  Raspberry,  351. 

"  "       Strawberry,  351. 

"  Currant-and-Raspberry,  352. 

"  Damson,  352. 

"  Gooseberry,  Green,  352. 

*  "      "    Ripe,  352. 

"  Plum,  852. 

"  Raspbernr,  351. 

"  Rhubarb,"  353. 

"  Strawberrv,  351. 


PUDDINGS. 


Brown  Betty,  360. 
Bubbert,  Lemon,  357. 
Charlotte,  Apple,  355. 
Currants,  to  Clean,  380. 
Dumplings,  Apple,  Baked,  362. 
"     '  "      Boiled^362. 

"  "  «      Small,  362. 

"  Centennial,  364. 

"  Crvstal  Palace,  364. 

"  Eve's,  365. 

"  Fruit,  Boiled,  362. 

"  Plum  Duff,  363. 

"  "     Poor-Man's,  364. 

"  Rice,  363. 

"  Suet,  Boiled,  "863. 

"  Transparent,  364. 

"  Treacle,  365. 

General  Directions,  354. 
Pudding,  Almond,  Iced,  a  la  Russe,  377. 
"         Amber,  354. 
"         Apple-and-Plum,  361. 
"  "    -and-Tapioca,  361. 

"     Baked,  357. 
"  "      Custard,  356. 

"  «      Fine,  355. 

"  "      Layer,  856. 

"  '•      Simple,  355. 

"         Apricot,  Iced,  377. 
"         Banana,  Iced,  377. 


Pudding,  Batter,  359. 

"  Boiled,  358. 

"  Bread,  359. 
"  "     -and-Butter,  357. 

"  "       Fruit,  360. 

"  Cabinet,  a  la  Anglaise,  371. 

"  Charlotte  de  Frankfort,  Iced, 

379. 

"  Cherry,  358. 

"  Chocolate,  355. 

"  Corn-starch  Meringue,  369. 

"  Cream,  with  Cherries,  356. 

"  Currant,  Iced,  380. 

"  Farina,  377. 
"  "      Iced,  379. 

K  Fruit,  Poor  Man's,  376. 

"  George,  358. 

"  Half-hour,  359,  374. 

il  Hasty,  366. 

"  Huckleberrv,  366. 

"  Indian,  Baked,  359. 
"  "  "     Boston,  368. 

"  "  "     New  York,  367. 

"  "  "     Pennsvlvania, 

368." 
"  "  "     Virginia,  367. 

"  <l  "     William  Penn's, 

367. 
»  "       Boiled,  366. 


INDEX. 


615 


Pudding,  Indian,  Fried,  366. 
Lemon,  No.  1,  368. 
"       No.  2,  368. 
"       No.  3,  368. 
Long  Branch,  369. 
Macaroni,  370. 
Muscovite,  Iced,  379. 
Neapolitan.  370. 
Orange,  Baked,  371. 

"       Marmalade,  369. 
Peach,  Dried,  356. 

"       Iced,  356. 
Plum,     Beeton's     Unrivalled, 
373. 
"      One-Pound,  372. 
«      Plain,  374. 
"      William  Penn's,  373. 
Queen's,  374. 
Prince  Albert,  357. 
Ritfe,  Iced,  a  la  Bearnaise,  378. 


Pudding,  Rice,  Iced,  a  la  Espagnole,  378. 
"  "     Poor-Man's,  No,  1,  372. 

"        No.  2,  372. 
Shelford,  375. 
"         Sir  Watkyn  Wynn's,  376. 
"         Sponge  Cake,  360. 

Suet,  Plain,  375. 
"         Tansy,  355. 
"         Tapioca.  370. 

Treacle,  Plain,  376. 
"         Venus,  354. 

Vermicelli,  370. 
Puddings,  Iced,  377-380. 
Pyramid,  Fruit,  365. 
Rolypoly,  Cheap  Suet,  374. 
"         Currant,  375. 
"         Molasses,  375. 
Raisins,  to  Stone,  380. 
Snow,  Apple,  355. 
Suet,  to  Chop,  380. 


SWEET  SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS,  ETC. 


Sauce,  Apple-Jelly,  382. 

Sauce 

,  Old  Humphrev's  Aigre-Doux,  for 

"      Beehive.  384. 

Cold  Puddings,  382. 

"      Brandy,  384. 

" 

Orange  or  Raisin  Wine,  385. 

"      Custard,  383. 

it 

Poor-Man's  Apple,  381. 

"      Dinah's  Charming,  382. 

" 

"      Cream,  381. 

"      Felicie's  Creme  d'Amande,  382. 

u 

Pudding,  Delicious,  384. 

"      Hard.  384. 

" 

Dinah's,  No.  1,  383. 

"      Hot  Cream,  383. 

u 

No.  2,  383. 

"      Lemon,  385. 

" 

Quick,  for  Cold,  385. 

"      Madeira- Wine,  384. 

« 

Red  Wine,  381. 

"      Milk,  385. 

SAUCES  FOR  M 

EAT 

AND  FISH. 

Beurre  d'Ail,  391. 

Sauce 

,  Bread,  No.  1,  389. 

"      de  Montpellier,  390. 

"      No.  2,  890. 

"      d'Ecrevisses,  390. 

Brown,  388. 

Butter,  Anchovy,  391. 

Celerv,  392. 

"      Browned,  391. 

Cold,"for  Fish,  393. 

"       Garlic,  391. 

"     Ravigote,  393. 

"      Melted,  a.  la  Franchise,  for  Sal- 

Cranberry, 398. 

mon,  391. 

Dutch,  392. 

"      Old-fashioned  Drawn,  No.  1, 392. 

Egg,  389. 

"       No.  2, 392. 

Espagnole,  388. 

"      Mayonnaise,  Green,  395. 

for  Hot  or  Cold  Roast  Beef,  397. 

"      Roux,  395. 

Hollandaise,  395. 

Sauce,  Allemande,  388. 

Hot  Mayonnaise  for  Boiled  Sal- 

"     Anchovv,  387. 

mon,  393. 

"      Apple,  398. 

Indian  or  Kari,  393. 

"      Asparagus,  887. 

Italian,  397. 

"      Bechamel,  389. 

Maitre  de  Hotel,  391. 

616 


INDEX. 


Sauce,  Mint,  for  Roast  Lamb,  388. 

"  Mushroom,  387. 

<4  Onion,  392. 

"  Oyster,  387. 

"  Parsley-and-Lemon,  396. 

"  Peacta^  398. 

"  Poivrade,  394. 

"  Ravigote,  394. 

"  Sardines,  396. 

"  Shrimp,  396. 

"  Sorrel,  396. 

"  Supreme,  389. 


Sauce,  Tartare,  397. 
"      Veioute,  388. 
"      Verte  a  la  Venitienne,  394. 
"      White,  388. 
"      White  Lemon,  for  Boiled  Fowls, 

397. 
"      Yarmouth  Fish,  397. 
Sauces,  Browned  Flour  for,  386. 

"      Browning  for  Gravies  and,  No.  1, 
386. 
No.  2,  386. 
"      Use  of  Wines  in,  386. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  AND  BLANC-MANGES. 


Blanc-mange,  Almond,  408. 

Arrow-root,  409. 

Chocolate,  408. 

Coffee,  408. 

Corn-starch,  409. 

Farina,  409. 

Ribbon,  408. 

Sago,  409. 

Tapioca,  409. 
Cream,  Almond,  404. 
"      Bavarian,  403. 
"      Caramel,  402. 
"      Dutch,  404. 
"      Fried,  403. 
"      Lemon,  401. 
"      Meringues,  406. 
"      Nesselrode,  a  la  Russe,  401. 
"      Peach,  402. 
"      Rose,  403. 
"      Spanish,  404. 
"      Strawberry,  401. 
"      Swiss,  405. 
"      Tapioca.  Custard,  404. 
"      Velvet,  405. 

"      Whipped,  with  Chestnuts,  402. 
Custard,  German,  400. 
"        Pistachio,  400. 
Plain,  399. 


Custard,  Polish,  400. 

"       Rules  for  Making,  399. 
Fool,  Currant,  405. 

"     Gooseberry,  405. 

"     Orange,  405. 
Flummery,  405. 
Frumety,  406. 
Jaune -mange,  410. 
JLelly,  Bird's-Nest  in,  412. 

"      Calfs-foot,  410. 

"      Cider,  412. 

"      Claret,  410. 

"      Orange,  411. 

"     Ribbon,  411. 

"      Wine,  411. 
Prune  Mould,  No.  1,  412. 
"       No.  2,  413. 
Snow,  Lemon,  406. 

"      Solid,  or  Rahm  Sultz,  402. 
Trifle,  Apple,  406. 

"      Apricot,  407. 

"      Grape,  407. 

"      Orange,  407. 

"      Peach,  4ffi. 

"      Pineapple,  407. 

"      Quince,  407. 

"      Raspberry,  408. 


'RESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 


Bottled  Fruits  for  Tarts,  430. 
Plums  for  Tarts,  430. 
Brandied  Berries,  431. 
Cherries,  431. 
"  "         a  la  Parisienne,  432. 

"        Grapes,  431. 
"         Peaches,  431. 
"         Pears,  431. 


Brandied  Plums,  431. 
Butter,  Apple,  437. 

"      Peach,  438. 

"      Pear,  438. 

"      Tomato,  438. 
Candied  Peaches,  427. 
Canned  Berries,  433. 

"       Cherries,  438. 


INDEX. 


617 


Canned  Currants,  433. 
"       Damsons,  433. 

Green  Gages,  433. 
"       Peaches,  432. 
"       Pears,  432. 
Plums,  433. 
Canning,  Rules  for,  432. 
Cheese,  Apricot,  415. 
"       Quince,  420. 
Currants,  Seeded,  434. 
Figs,  Peach,  426. 
Ginger,  Apple,  415. 
Glacees,  Apricot,  414. 

"       Peach,  427. 
Jam,  Apple,  437. 
"     Blackberry,  437. 
"     Gooseberry,  436. 
"     Peach,  427. 
"     Pineapple,  428. 
"     Raspberry,  437. 
"     Strawberry,  436. 
Jellies,  Fruit,  433. 

"  "      Rules  for,  414. 

Jelly,  Apple,  415. 

"      Crab,  435. 
"      Currant,  434. 
"  "       and  Black-Cap,  434. 

"        and  Wild  Cherry,  434. 
"  "        Cold,  434. 

"      Four-Fruit,  435. 
"      Grape,  Green,  434. 
"  "       Ripe,  436. 

"      Peach,  435. 
"      Quince,  435. 
"      Rose,  436. 
"      Strawberry,  436. 
Marmalade,  Apricot,  415. 

"  Orange-and-Apple,  424, 

"      Dundee,  422. 
"      Florida,  422. 
"  "      St.  Martin's,  423. 


Marmalade,  Orange,  Sorrento,  423. 
Peach,  426. 
"  Pineapple,  428. 

Quince,  419. 
Paste,  Apricot,  415. 
Preserved  Apples,  420. 

"       Crab,  416. 
"         Beaufort  Green  Oranges,  422. 
"         Cherries,  416. 
"         Chestnuts,  416. 
"         Damsons,  418. 

Egg  Plums,  418. 
"         Figs,  a  la  Louisiana,  417. 
"         Florida  Lemon,  421. 
"         Fox  Grapes,  420. 
'*         Fruits    in    Vinegar   without 

Cooking,  429. 
"         Ginger,  417. 
"         Green  Gages,  418. 
"         Orange-Blossoms,  424. 
"         Oranges, Whole,  in  Syrup, 420. 
"         Ogeechee  Limes,  421. 
"         Peaches,  No.  1,  426. 
No.  2,  426. 
Whole,  425. 
Pears,  416. 
"         Pineapple,  428. 

Quince,  No.  1,  419. 
"       No.  2,  419. 
"         Raspberries,  Whole,  436. 
"         Roses,  425. 
"         Sour-Orange  Peel,  424. 
"         Strawberries,  41G. 
"         Violets,  425. 
"         Watermelon,  430. 

Pink,  430. 
Preserves,  Rules  for,  414. 
Raisin  e  de  Bourgoyne,  429. 

*•       de  Raisins,  428. 
Sweetmeat,  Green,  No.  1,  421. 
"       No.  2,  421. 


PICKLES. 


Chutnee,  Gooseberry,  442. 

General    Rules    for    Making    Pickles, 

439. 
Mangoes,  Stuffed,  a  la  Creole,  445. 
Bell-Pepper,  442. 
Mustard,  French,  to  Prepare,  444. 

"        Tomato.  447. 
Pickle,  Easy-mixed,  445. 

"      Ever-ready,  445. 

"      Indian,  Bombav,  442. 


Pickle,  Indian,  Calcutta,  443. 

"  "       Delhi,  443. 

u      Pidcock's,  442. 

"      Tomato-and-Onion,  447. 
"      Ripe,  448. 

"  "      Sweet,  449. 

Pickled  Beets,  443. 

"       Cabbage,  Purple,  440. 

»  "        White,  439. 

"       Cauliflower,  440. 


618 


INDEX. 


Pickled  Cherries,  449. 

"  Damsons,  Sweet,  449. 

"  Husk  Tomatoes,  Sweet,  449. 

"  Lemons,  444. 

"  Mushrooms,  444. 

"  Onions,  446. 

"  Peaches,  Sweet,  449. 

"  "        Unpeeled,  449. 

"  «       Whole,  448. 


Pickled  Pears,  Sweet,  449. 

"       Plums,  Sweet,  449. 

"       Radish  Pods,  442. 

"       String  Beans,  442. 
Pickles,  Cucumber,  441. 

"  "  Sliced,  440. 

"       Gherkins,  441. 
Picklette,  446. 
Soy,  Green-Tomato,  448. 


ICE-CREAM  AND  WATER-ICES. 


Creme  a  la  Rose,  454. 

"      au  The,  454. 
Ice,  Cheny,  455. 
"    Currant-and-Raspberry,  455. 
"    Genuine  Italian  Tutti-frutti,  456. 
Ice-cream,  Almond,  451. 
"  Caramel,  452. 

"  Chocolate,  452. 

Coffee  in,  452. 
"  Custard,  452. 

"  General  Rules,  451. 

"  Lemon,  458. 

Made  of  Milk,  453. 
"  Nesselrode,  452. 

"  Orange  Fool,  453. 

Peach,  454. 


I  Ice-cream,  Pineapple,  453. 
"  Pistachio,  452. 

"  Racahout,  454. 

"  Raspberry,  454. 

"  Strawberry,  454. 

"  Tutti-frutti,  453. 

Vanilla,  453. 
Punch,  Concord,  Frozen,  455. 

"       Roman,  455. 
Vanilla  Sugar,  457. 
Water-ice,  Champagne,  455. 
"         Lemon,  456. 
"         Orange,  456. 
"         Pineapple,  456. 
"         Raspberry,  456. 
"  Strawberry,  456. 


TEA,  COFFEE,  AND  MADE  DRINKS. 


Almond  Milk,  460. 
Cafe  au  Lait,  459. 
Chocolate,  459. 
Cobbler,  Sherry,  462. 
Cocoa  Nibs,  459. 

"      Prepared,  459. 
Coffee,  458,  460. 
Eggnog,  460. 
Flip,  Beer,  461. 
Lemonade,  460. 
Mulled  Cider,  461. 

"       Wine,  462. 

"      Orangeade,  460. 


Punch,  Claret,  461. 

"       Fresh-milk,  460. 

"       Regent's,  461. 

"       Roman,  461. 
Racahout,  Arab,  459. 
Revolenta,  459. 
Sangaree,  462. 
Sherbet,  Fruit,  462. 
Spiced  Wine,  462. 
Tea,  458. 
"     Cambric,  458. 
"     Russian,  458. 


DIETARY  FOR  INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS. 


Ball,  Flour,  464. 
Beefsteak,  Broiled,  469. 
Biscuit,,  Unleavened,  468. 
Blanc-mange,  Arrow-root,  468. 

"  Sea-moss,  469. 

"  Tapioca,  469. 

Bouillie,  Barley,  466. 


Broth,  Beef-and-Hen,  470. 

"  "   -and-Sago,  471. 

"  Calfs-feet,  471. 

"  Chicken,  No.  1,472. 

"  "         No.  2, 47?, 

"  Eel,  470. 

"  Mutton,  No.  1,  472. 


INDEX. 


619 


Broths  Mutton,  No.  2,  472. 
"      Veal-and-Sago,  473. 
Cheese,  Invalid's  Toasted,  480. 
Collops,  Bread,  477. 
Custard,  Arrowroot,  473. 
Enema,  Nutrient  Beef,  470. 
Flounders,  Boiled,  481. 
Flummery,  Oatmeal,  467. 
Food  for  Infants,  463,  464. 
Fruit,  Stewed,  477. 
Gems,  Gluten,  489. 
Gruel,  Children's,  474. 
"      Indian-meal,  474. 

White,  474. 
"      Milk-and-Rice-rlour,  474. 
"      Rice,  474. 
"      Sago,  474. 
"      Water,  473. 
Jell}r,  Arrow-root,  475. 

Wine,  475. 
"     Bread,  476. 
"     Chicken,  472. 
"     Hartshorn  or  Ivory,  476 
"     Iceland  or  Irish-Moss,  475. 
"     Isinglass,  476. 
"     Restorative,  487. 
"     Rice,  476. 
"     Tapioca,  475. 
Lemon  or  Orange,  Baked,  488. 
Lettuce  with  Gravy,  480. 
Milk  and  Arrow-root,  466. 
"     and  Biscuit,  468. 
"     and  Bread,  465. 
"     and  Hecker's  Farina,  465. 
"     and  Hominy,  465. 
"     and  Mush,  465. 
"     and  Wheaten  Grits,  466. 
"     Porridge,  465. 
"     Rice,  467. 
"     Rice-flour,  473. 
"     Sago,  473. 
"     Tapioca,  473. 
Mutton  Chop,  Broiled,  469. 
Panada,  No.  1,  467. 
"    2,467. 
Pigeon  or  Partridge,  Boiled,  481. 
Porridge,  467. 

Raisin-Milk,  489. 
Potato,  Invalid's  Mashed,  480. 
Surprise,  480. 
Pudding,  Batter,  468. 

"         Bread,  with  Egg,  477. 
"  "      without  Egg,  477. 

"         Graham,  Hastv,  466. 


Pudding,  Rice,  468. 

"         Rice-flour,  Hastv,  467. 
Rice,  Boiled,  468. 
Sauce  au  Naturel,  for  Fish,  478. 

"      Bread,  478. 

"       Brown,  478. 

"      Duke  of  York's  Universal,  478. 

"      White  Mayonnaise,  478. 
Soup,  Bread,  479." 

"      Egg,  479. 

"      Meagre,  479. 

"      Spinach,  479. 
Tea,  Beef,  471. 

"       "     Cold,  469. 

"       "     Quick,  470. 

"        "     Whole,  469. 
Toast,  Dry,  476. 

"      Milk,  476. 
Tonic,  Pennington's  Old  Virginia  Beef- 
Tea,  471. 

Drinks  for  Invalids. 
Caudle,  484. 
Claret  Cup,  482. 
Coffee,  Rice,  489. 
Drink,  Alkaline,  481. 
"       Almond,  482. 
"       Ball,  482. 
"       White,  481. 
Eau  Sucree,  483. 
Eggnog,  481. 

Essence,  Broiled  Beef,  488. 
Fennel  Seeds  Steeped  in  Brandy,  485. 
Julip,  Hailstorm,  483. 
Laban,  489. 
Lemonade,  483. 

"  Flax-seed,  484. 

"  Irish-Moss,  484. 

Punch,  Milk,  482. 

"         "      and  Egg,  482. 
Sangaree  or  Porteree,  482. 
Tea,  Aniseed,  485. 
"    Broiled  Beef,  488. 
"     Catnip,  485. 
«     Chamomile,  486. 
"    Clove,  485. 
"     Corn,  489. 
';     Gentian,  486. 
"     Green  Strawberry  Leaf,  486. 
"    Linseed,  483. 
"    Malt,  481. 
"    Mint,  485 
"     Oatmeal,  486. 
"     Parslev  Root,  486. 


620 


INDEX. 


Tea,  Pennvroval,  486. 

"    Portable' Beef,  488. 

"     Kose,  486. 

"    Sage,  486,  487. 

"     Slippery-Elm  Bark,  482. 

"    Tansy  and  Rue,  485. 

';    Violet,  485. 
Toddy,  Apple,  483. 
Wash,  Cleansing,  for  the  Mouth,  487. 
Water,  Apple,  484. 
Barley,  481. 


Water,  Gum-Arabic,  483. 

"       Jelly,  484. 

"        Lemon,  484. 

"       Linseed,  483. 

"        Quince,  484. 

"       Toast,  483. 
Whey,  Alum,  482. 

"      Rennet,  487. 

"       Tamarind,  487. 

"       White  Wine,  No.  1,  487. 

"  "  "       No.  2, 487. 


GENERAL  HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM. 


Bandages,  Hot,  491. 
Conveniences  in  Sick-room,  491. 


Diet,  General  Hints  as  to,  491-493. 
Ice,  to  Keep  in  a  Sick-room,  491 . 


HOUSEHOLD,  TOILET,  AND  MEDICAL  RECEIPTS. 


Household  Receipts. 

Awnings,  to  Render  Waterproof,  503. 
Bain-Marie,  to  Manage,  503. 
Black  Goods,  to  Clean,  496. 
Brasses,  to  Clean,  494. 
Calicoes,  to  Wash  Doubtful,  497. 
Carpets,  to  Remove  Grease  from,  499. 
Crape,  to  Renew  Wrinkled,  497. 
Drinking-water,  Bad,  503. 
Eggs,  to  Preserve,  494. 
Feathers,  to  Curl  Tumbled,  498. 
Fire,  Clothes  Catching,  499. 

"     to  Escape  from,  499. 
Flannel,  to  Shrink,  501. 
Floors,  for  Staining  Wooden,  500. 
Glue  for  Ready  Use,  503. 
Horses'  Feet,  to  Prevent  from  Scalding 

or  Cracking,  501. 
Insects,  to  Drive  away,  502. 
Kerosene  Flames,  to  Extinguish,  501. 
Lace,  to  Wash  Black,  497. 

"  "        Tidies  Made  of  Antique, 

497. 

"  •«        White  Edging,  497. 

Lampwicks,  to  Prevent  from  Smoking, 

499. 
Lawns  or  Thin  Muslin,  to  Wash,  497. 
Lime  Juice,  to  Preserve,  494. 
Linen,  to  Restore  Scorched,  501. 
Marble  Floor,  to  Clean,  495. 
Mason,  Your  Own,  501. 
Mats,  to  Preserve  Sheepskins  for,  502. 
Mildew,  495. 
Milk,  to  Preserve,  494. 


Mosquitoes,  to  Drive  away,  502. 
Needle,  to  Draw  out  a  Broken,  499. 
Paint,  Smell  of,  502. 

"      to  Clean,  495. 
Plants  in  a  Room,  500. 
Rats,  to  Drive  away,  502. 
Scouring  Spirit,  General,  502. 
Silk,  to  Smooth  Wrinkled,  496. 

"     to  Wash,  496. 
Soft- Soap,  to  Make,  498. 
Stains,  Acid  and  Alkali,  496. 

"       Ink,  495. 

"       Iron  Mould,  495. 

"       on  Silk  or  Woollens,  496. 

"       to  Remove  from  Marble,  495. 

"  "         Port  and  Claret,  499. 

Straw  Matting,  to  Clean,  495. 
Steel  Pens,  to  Restore  Worn,  499. 
Tea-kettles,  to  Clean,  499. 
Velvet,  to  Restore  the  Pile  of,  498. 
Water,  to  Purify  Foul,  503, 

"  to  Soften  Hard,  503. 
Wine  Bottles,  to  Clean,  494. 
Woollen  Goods.  Mixture  for  Sponging, 

498. 
Woollens,  to  Keep,  498. 
"         to  Wash,  496. 
Yeast,  to  Sweeten  Bitter,  499. 

Toilet  Receipts. 

Ball,  Almond,  504. 
Balsam,  Gtycerine,  504. 
Cold  Cream,  No.  1,  504. 
No.  2,  504. 
Freckles,  Lotion  for,  503. 


INDEX. 


621 


Hair,  Rosemary  Tea  for,  505. 

"     Stimulant  for,  505. 

"     Wash,  505. 
Pomade  Angelique,  505. 

"       Divine,  505. 
Salve,  Red  Lip,  504. 
Scalp,  Wash  for  the,  505. 
Scent  Jar,  Old-fashioned,  507. 
Skin,  Wash  for  Roughness  of,  505. 
Vinegar,  Aromatic,  506. 
"        Thieves',  506. 
Water,  Cologne,  506. 

"       Honey,  506. 

"      Hungary,  506. 

"      Lavender,  506. 

Medical  Receipts. 
Antidote  to  Acids,  507. 

"  Antimony,  507. 

"  Arsenic,  507. 

"  Chloride  of  Zinc,  507. 

"  Copper,  507. 

"  Green  Vitriol,  508. 

"  Iodine,  508. 

"  Laudanum,  508. 

"  Lead,  508. 

"  Lunar  Caustic,  508. 

"  Mercury,  508. 

"  Nitre,  508. 

"  Phosphorus,  508. 

"  Poisonous  Fish,  508. 

"  Poisonous  Plants,  508. 

"    "      Tin,  507. 
Asthma,  509. 

Bandage,  Alcohol,  for  Sore  Throat,  514. 
"         Cold  Water,  514. 
"         Red-Pepper,  514. 
Bleeding  at  the  Nose,  Lotion  for,  512. 
Blood,  to  Stop  the  Flow  of,  509. 


Burns,  Lotion  for,  510. 
Chilblains,  for  Broken,  511. 

"  Liniment  for,  No.  1,  511. 

li  "  No.  2,  511, 

Cholagogue,  511. 
Cold,  Remedy  for,  510. 
Constipation,  Excellent  Enema  for,  512. 
Croup,  509. 
Earache,  511. 
Flannel,  Wet  Hot,  513. 
Oil,  Camphorated,  510. 
Poultice,  Alum,  516.  . 

"         Barm-and- Oatmeal,  for    Sore 
Throat,  514. 
Bran,  515. 
Bread-and-Milk,  514. 

"         Flaxseed,  515. 

"         Hemlock.  516. 

"         Linseed,  515. 

"       Meal,  515. 

"         Mustard.  516. 

"         Mutton-Suet.  516. 

"         Yeast,  515. 
Poison,  Antidotes  to,  507. 
Rubefacient,  Powerful,  510. 
Salt,  Hot,  513. 
Scolds,  Lotion  for,  510. 
Skin,  for  Chopped,  511. 
Snake,  Bite  of  a,  509. 
Stings,  to  Treat,  509. 
Sunstroke,  509. 
Throat,  Gargle  for  Sore,  No.  1,  512. 

"  "  "       No.  2,  512. 

"  "  "      No.  3,  512. 

Whooping  Cough,  512. 
Worms,  Remedy  for,  No.  1,  513. 

"     '  "  No.  2,  513. 

"       Injection  for  Pin,  No.  1,  513. 

"  "  "        No.  2, 513. 


BOTTLED  SAUCES,  CATSUPS,  VINEGARS,  AND  ESSENCES. 


Capers,  Mock,  522. 
Catsup,  Butternut,  519. 
"       Cucumber,  520. 
"       Lemon,  519. 
"       Mushroom,  521. 
"       Oyster,  520. 
"       Tomato,  520. 
"       Walnut,  519. 
Essence  of  Caraway  Seeds,  523. 
"         Citron,  523. 
"         Mace,  523. 
"         Marjoram,  524. 


Essence  of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel,  524. 
"         Savory  Spices,  524. 
"         Spinach,  524- 
Lard,  Spiced,  525. 
Mustard,  Made,  525. 
Parsley,  Roast,  524. 
Powder,  Curry,  No.  1,  517. 
"      No.  2,  517. 
"       Mushroom,  517. 
Salt,  Celery,  523. 

"     Spice,  523. 
Sauce,  Caramel  for,  518. 


622 


INDEX. 


Sauce,  Caramel  for, with  Bordeaux  Wine, 

518. 
Sauce,  India,  No.  1,  517. 
"      No.  2,  518. 

"       Piquante,  Essence  for,  523. 

"       Table,  518. 
Soup,  Caramel  for,  with  Bordeaux  Wine, 

518. 


Tincture  of  Celery,  519. 

Cochineal,  518. 
Vinegar,  Celery,  521. 

"        Horseradish,  521. 

Onion,  522. 
"        Pepper,  522. 
Spiced,  522. 
Zest,  524. 


BOTTLED  DRINKS. 


Beer,  527. 
"     Boneset,  526. 
"     Cream,  526. 

"      Ginger,  527. 
"     Ginger,  527. 
"     Sassafras,  527. 
"     Small,  526. 
"     Spruce,  526. 
Bitters,  Fine,  for  Ague  Regions,  528. 

"       Wine,  528. 
Bounce,  Cherrv,  No.  1,  528. 
"  *    No.  2,  528. 
Cider,  Artificial,  529. 
"      to  Bottle,  529. 
Cordial,  Blackberry,  529. 

Kentucky,  529. 
"       Black-Currant,  530. 
«       Ginger,  529. 
"       Mint,  530. 

"       Mississippi  Pomegranate,  530. 
"       Raspberry,  531. 


Curacoa,  531. 

Kirsch,  531. 

Maraschino,  531. 

Orgeat,  531. 

Punch,  Lemon,  to  Keep,  531. 

"      Milk,  to  Keep,  531. 
Raspberry,  Royal,  533. 
Shrub,  Currant,  532. 
Syrup,  Lemon,  532. 

"       Lime,  532. 
Vinegar,  Raspberry,  533. 
Wine,  Blackberry,  534. 

"      Black-Currant,  533. 

"      Cranberry,  534. 

"      Elderberry,  534. 

"      Florida  Orange,  535. 

"      Raisin,  535. 

"      Red-Currant,  533. 

"      Rhubarb,  534. 

"      Strawberry,  534. 


MISCELLANEOUS  SAVORY  DISHES. 


Beef,  Potted,  536. 

Boar,  Wild,  in  Dolceforte,  537. 

Boeuf,  Croutes  a  la  Mcelle  de,  537. 

Brawn,  Breakfast,  537. 

Brewis,  540. 

Brother  Jonathan,  539. 

Butter,  Green,  539. 

Chicken  Cream,  536. 

"       Crow's  Fried,  541. 
"       Jellied,  540. 
"       Livers,  Neapolitan,  542. 
"       Potted,  538. 
Cream  Cheese,  Green,  539. 
Croquettes  de  Fines  Herbes,  544. 
Farina,  544. 
"  Milanaise,  542. 

"  Russian  Bread,  543. 

"  Spinach,  543. 

"  Crowdie,  Scotch,  552. 

Curry,  Bombay,  542. 
••  *    Madras.  543. 


Fish,  Curried,  544. 
Haslet  Stew,  552. 
Ignachi  a  la  Romana,  553. 
Kedgeree,  No.  1,  545. 
No.  2,  545. 
Kidnevs  a  la  Vieville,  545. 

<;  .    Devilled,  545. 

"       Stewed,  545. 
Kromeskys,  Russian,  546. 
Jelly,  Aspic,  540. 
Livers,  Ragout  of,  541. 
Lentils  or  Beans,  Baked,  551. 

"  "       Boiled,  551. 

"       Fried,  551. 

"       Stewed,  552. 
Marrow  Patties,  546. 
Marrow-bones,  Hot,  536. 
Oatmeal  and  Pease,  552. 
Onions,  Spanish,  a  la  Grecque,  547. 
Pepperpot,  547. 
Peppers,  Stuffed,  546. 


INDEX. 


623 


Pie  a  la  Bonne  Menagere,  547. 
44    Calfs-Head.  548. 
"    Giblet.  547. 
"    Potato.  547. 
Podovies,  or  Beef  Patties,  547. 
Pudding.  Cheese,  553. 

"         Cbicken-and-Corn,  542. 
"         Pease,  553. 
Kaviolo,  542. 

of  Herbs,  548. 


Risotto  a  la  Neapolitaine,  549. 

"       for  Epicures.  549. 

"       with  Oysters,  549. 
Rice.  Savory.  540. 
Salpicion,  541. 
Scrambles,  538. 
Toast,  Dutch  Cream,  551. 
Tripe.  Stewed.  553. 
Wet  Devil.  554. 
Woodcock,  Scotch,  550. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS. 


Almond  Marmalade,  565. 
Aniseed  Balls.  555. 
Apple  Cake.  556. 

"      Charlotte.  562. 

"      Citron,  565. 

44      Pudding,  or  Friar's  Omelet,  560. 

44      Slump.  Rhode  Island,  560. 

44      Stephen,  560. 
Apples,  Baked,  555,  556. 
Coddled.  556. 

44       Conde  of  Pears.  Apricots,  and, 557 

"       Flambautes,  558. 

44      Fried,  561. 

44       or  Pears,  Compote  of,  558. 

44       Stewed,  569. 
Stuffed,  568. 

44       with  rjutter,  557. 

44       with  Meringue,  558. 

44       with  Rice,  557. 
Apricot,  Cheese,  562. 
Apricots,  Croutes,  559. 
Fried,  561. 
Stuffed,  568. 
Charlotte-Russe,  Florida.  563. 

44  Plain,  563. 

Cheese,  Siberian  Crab,  556. 
Chestnuts,  Souffle  of,  555. 
Cocoanut  Marmalade,  565. 
Currant  Grant,  564. 
Damson  Cheese,  561. 
Figs,  Fried,  561. 
Gooseberry  Cake,  564. 
44  Cheese,  564. 

44  Cups,  563. 

Hickory-nut  Balls,  555. 
Macedoine  of  Fruit,  559. 
Meringue,  Philadelphia.  566. 
Omelette  au  Rhum,  566. 


Omelette  au  Sucre,  566. 

44        aux  Confitures.  567. 
44        aux  Pommes,  566. 
44        Souffle,  567. 
Peach  Charlotte,  562. 

Fresh,  562. 
Peaches,  Croutes  of,  558. 
Fried.  561. 
Stuffed.  568. 
Pears,  Baked,  569. 
44       Stewed,  570. 

44  44        Brown,  570;  Italian,  570. 

44      Stuffed,  568. 
Plums,  Croutes  of,  559. 

44      Fried,  569. 
Quinces.  Baked,  569. 
Rice  Meringue.  565. 

44    Panada.  567. 
Rusks,  Light  Snow  Dessert,  or  Dampf- 

Nudeln,  571. 
Souffle  au  Cafe,  571. 
44       au  Riz,  570. 
Tipsv  Charlotte,  562. 
Tot  Fait,  571. 

44         with  Fruit,  571. 

Ripe  Fruit  for  Dessert. 

Ambrosia,  573. 

Apples,  573. 

Apricots,  572. 

Currants  and  Raspberries,  573. 

44        Crystallized,  574. 
General  Rules  for  Ripe  Fruit,  572. 
Peaches,  572. 
Pears,  573. 
Plums,  572. 
Orange  Salad.  573. 
Tutti-Frutti  Fruit  Salad,  573. 


HOME-MADE   CANDY. 


Burnt  Almonds,  578. 
44      Pistachio  Nuts,  578. 


'■■  Candy,  Almond,  575. 
44       Cocoanut,  575. 


624 


INDEX. 


Candy,  Cream,  577. 

"       Hickory-nut,  575. 

"       Molasses,  576. 

"       Peanut,  575. 

"       Walnut,  575. 
Caramels,  Chocolate,  576. 

Maple-Sugar,  576;  Plain,  576. 
Drops,  Currant,  577. 


Drops,  Ginger,  577. 

"      Gum,  578. 
Pastilles,  578. 
Pate  a  Bonbons,  578. 
Sugar,  Apple,  578. 

"      Barley,  578. 
Taffy,  576. 

"      Everton. 


COOKERY  FOR  CAMPING-OUT. 


Bread,  Miner's,  582. 
Cake,  Sportsman's,  582. 
Clam-Bake  on  a  Rocky  Shore,  583. 
Clams  Along  Shore,  583. 
Crabs,  Cooking,  on  Shore,  580. 

"      Devilled,  on  Shore,  580. 

"      Stewed,  on  Shore,  580. 
Deer's  Head,  to  Cook  in  Camp,  581. 
Dodger,  Sportsman's,  582. 
Game  Broiled  in  Camp,  581. 
Onions  Roasted  in  Camp,  581. 


Opossum,  581. 

Oysters,    Maryland     "Along     Shore" 

Roast,  582. 
Potatoes  Roasted  in  Camp,  581. 
Quail,  Smothered,  581. 
Stew,  Sportsman's,  583. 
Trout,  Angler's  Fried,  584. 

"       Planked,  584. 
"       Roast,  584. 

"      Michigan  Brook,  584. 

"      to  Bake  or  Steam,  583. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CLEANING  SILVER,  GLASS,  CHINA,  ETC 

Carpets,  to  Clean,  587. 
China,  to  Wash,  587. 
Furniture,  to  Rub,  587. 
Glass,  to  Wash,  587. 
Kettles,  to  Clean,  586. 
Knives,  to  Clean,  587. 


Looking-glasses,  to  Polish,  587. 

Pots,  to  Clean,  586. 

Silver,  Louis's   Receipt    for    Cleaning, 

586. 
Tins,  Cleaning,  586. 
Windows,  to  Wash,  587. 


MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS. 


Bread  and  Cake  Bowls,  to  Soak,  589. 

"     Board,  to  Clean,  589. 
Coffee-Pot,  to  Clean,  590. 
Cotton  Cloth  for  Wiping  Meat  and  Fish, 

591. 
Dish-Mop  for  Cups  and  Dishes,  590. 

"    Towels,  to  Wash,  590. 
Dishes,  to  Scrape,  589. 
Dripping  -  Pans,  Scotch  Bowls,  etc.,  to 

Scrape,  589. 
Egg-Beater,  Dover,  to  Clean,  589. 
Holders,  591. 


Iron- ware,  to  Wash,  589. 
Kettles,  to  Soak,  589. 
Kitchen  Utensils,  Useful,  588. 
Pans,  to  Soak  and  Wash,  589. 
Pumice  Stone,  to  Use,  590. 
Refrigerators,  Examining  and  Cleaning, 

589. 
Saucepans,  Tin   and   Granite  -  ware,  to 

Clean,  590. 
Soap,  Kitchen  Mineral,  to  Use,  590. 
Towels,  591. 


Dinner  for  Eight  People,  594. 

"       for  Ten  People,  593,  598,  599 
Family  Dinners,  595-597. 

"  "        Simnle.  597, 598. 


MENUS. 

Menus  for  Spring,  592,  593. 
"      for  Summer,  593-598. 
"      for  Winter,  598,  599. 


The  following  blank  pages  are  intended  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  additional  receipts. 


°*N? 


828 


- 


o 


fc,V"y 


*% 


^  *       cs 


Ft 


'       ' 


o  > 

,0 


0° 


^ 


t#  r 


vV^ 


x°^ 


4    ^U 


