L»     «*  • 


y<K      V 


V    *"*•"   v* 


v  **  **   •. 


■« 


*<?*    - 


v    »°-v  ': 


*»°- 


°q,*-T ^  ^     V  '^Fff-*  y     % /-T ^ «' 


•vi'.  <?. 


A"  *1»  <*  "*         "*         *" 


*.  *«»  a*  .vv^.  <*«.  ^  .**».  **.  ^  . 


.   ^*-  . 


*-  ;-> 


^•Uif.      ^ 


.0'  ^      ♦.,,-'     ^ 


^ '  ^ '  -*3K'-  v^  #*•  *+<«* ' 


A  Z 


««k  • 


^  v^V'  v-^w-^  v^-v 


"'^^ 


5°*     - 


/.C^i^0o 


ro.V 


•fav* 


jp-V 


O^       *«»«'      ^0" 


^  ,^rr,"»\.v 


v  J 


♦  .  .  «  • 


• "  •   <* 


■/\w/\- 


jr  "V  -.^ 


**>.  -*WF  #-%  \mm:  J  *.  ?W\/ 


*;wv;*  &* 


O^      *o  .  ».  ♦       A 


y>..    * 


,*  .,. 


'*U       '"1"        4« 


•♦        V 


v^  ..J^L',    «\ 


J.0^     V 


%. 


;♦  «>     o_  v 


<^  .*2fe\  "\/  ;^6fe  %/  --ater  \ 


:  «*"V  °. 


.•  ** 


0„  «&y       o 


a  Vr  : 


,-i  q< 


o.      ♦..«»      .0« 


VALUABLE    AND    TRIED 


RECEIPTS 


i* 


COLLECTED  BY 
LOUISE  D.  SPEER 


«* 


PITTSBURG 
STEVENSON  &  FOSTER  COMPANY 

MDCCCXCVIII 


X 


COPYRIGHT,    JUNE,    1 898, 
BY    L.    D.    SPEER. 


^ 


TWO  COPIES  RECEIVED- 


PREFACE 


TN  collecting-  these  receipts — to  be  sold  for  Charity — 
care  has  been  taken  to  use  none  that  have  not  been 
tried  and  found  satisfactory.  As  far  as  possible,  the 
names  of  those  who  have  given  the  receipts  are  at- 
tached to  them  ;  but  in  some  cases  these  names  will  be 
unfamiliar,  as  many  of  the  receipts  are  very  old  ones.  A 
part  of  those  having-  no  names  attached  are  old  family 
receipts,  which  will  be  found  very  useful  and  valuable. 

L.  D.  S. 


VI 


ABBREVIATIONS  USED. 


pro professional. 

pk peck. 

g-al ....,.., gallon. 

lb pound. 

oz ounce- 

qt quart. 

pt pint. 

c cup. 

tbsp tablespoonful. 

tsp teaspoonful. 

ssp saltspoonful. 

h hour. 

m minute. 


VII 


EQUIVALENTS  OF  WEIGHTS    IN    MEASURE. 


One  rounded  tbsp.  butter, 1  oz. 

One  rounded  tbsp.    granulated    sug-ar 1  oz. 

One  heaping- tbsp.  powdered  sugar 1  oz. 

Two  rounding  tbsp.    flour  1  oz. 

Two  rounding  tbsp.   ground  spice 1  oz. 

Five  medium  sized  nutmegs 1  oz. 

One  qt.  sifted  pastry  flour 1  lb. 

One  qt.  sifted  new  process  flour,  less  one  gill 1  lb. 

One  pt.  granulated  sugar  ....... 1  lb. 

One  pt.  butter,  packed   solid .  1  lb. 

One  pt.   ordinary   liquid 1  lb. 

One  solid  pt.   chopped  meat 1  lb 

One  c.  rice , J  lb. 

One  c.  Indian   meal 6  oz. 

One  c.   stemmed  raisins 6  oz. 

One  c.  cleaned  and  dried  English  currants 6  oz. 

One  c  grated  bread  crumbs 2  oz. 

In  case  you  wish  to  find  the  fractional  parts  of  a  cupful,  to 
make  a  small  quantity  of  anything,  you  will  find  the  following 
table  useful.  The  cup  referred  to  is  the  common  kitchen  cup 
which  holds  half  a  pt. 

Eight   rounding  tbsp.   flour 1  c. 

Eight  rounding  tbsp.    sugar 1  c. 

Eight  rounding  tbsp.  butter  .    , ...      1  c. 

Sixteen  tbsp.    liquid  ..... 1  c 

Two  gills 1  c. 

A  common  tumblerful 1  c 


SOUPS 


CLEAR  SOUP. 

One  soup  bone  and  three  lbs.  of  meat  put  on  to  boil 
with  one  c.  tomatoes,  one  carrot,  celery,  tops  and  all, 
parsley,  salt,  pepper,  bay  leaf  and  two  onions  with  seven 
or  eight  cloves  stuck  in  each  one.  Simmer  all  day — 
strain,  cool,  and  skim  off  grease.  Next  day  clear  with 
whites  of  eggs  and  shells.  Lucy  Gray,  Pro. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

One  qt.  clams,  one  onion,  parsley,  celery,  red  pepper, 
one  pt.  milk,  yolks  of  two  eg-g-s,  one  tbsp.  flour  not  heaping 
and  two  tbsp.  butter. 

Put  the  clams  on  to  boil  with  the  onion,  parsley, 
celery,  red  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  an  h.  or  more.  Cream 
flour  and  butter  and  add  to  clams.  Strain  out  the  clams 
and  add  to  the  stock  the  milk,  which  has  been  whipped. 
Eggs  to  be  beaten  in  the  last  thing-. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Shin  of  beef  or  knuckle  of  veal  is  best,  one-fourth  pk. 
tomatoes,  one-fourth  pk.  okra,  two  onions,  bunch  of 
herbs,    one  grain  whole  allspice,  pepper    and  salt.     The 


2  SOUPS. 

soup  must  be  boiled  eight  or  nine  h.,  strained  through  a 
colander.  Good  to  make  it  the  day  before  using-.  Skim  off 
all  grease.  One-half  doz.  hard  crabs  are  a  great  improve- 
ment. Mrs.  J.  L.  Johnston. 


CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  in  two  gals,  of  water.  "When  boiled 
enough  remove  it  from  the  pot,  and  bone  ;  reserving  the 
brains  and  tongue  for  force  meat.  Cut  all  the  rest  into 
small  pieces  and  season  to  taste  with  red  and  black  pep- 
per, salt,  a  little  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram, 
mace,  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Strain  the  liquor 
and  put  the  meat  in  it,  allowing  them  to  boil  together 
well.  Then  chop  fine  the  tongue  and  brains,  season  to 
taste,  make  into  balls,  using  a  raw  egg,  and  fry.  When 
the  soup  boils  and  is  nearly  done  add  these  balls  with  a 
tumblerful  of  wine.  Put  chopped  hard  boiled  egg  in 
soup  tureen  before  serving.     Miss  Jennie  McC.  Taylor. 


OX  TAIL  SOUP. 

Take  two  ox  tails  and  fry  until  brown  with  two  onions 
and  two  tbsp.  of  butter.  When  brown  add  four  qts.  of 
water  and  two  carrots,  cut  up  fine  and  boil  for  three  h. 
When  boiled  set  aside  to  cool,  and  when  cold  skim  fat  off 
top  and  put  into  a  skillet  with  two  tbsp.  of  flour  and  stir 
until  brown,  then  add  one  qt.  of  stock  and  turn  back  into 
rest  of  soup.  In  the  meantime  cut  the  meat  off  the  ox 
tails  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  tureen. 
When  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve  add  one-fourth  tsp.  of 
curry   powder  and  three  tbsp.  of  sherry. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Burowin. 


SOUPS.  3 

CHICKEN  CURRY  WITH  RICE. 

Two  qts.  chicken  stock,  one  slice  of  onion,  one  stalk 
of  celery,  one-half  c.  cooked  rice,  one  tbsp.  of  butter,  one- 
half  tsp.  curry  powder.  Boil  slowly  for  thirty  m.  the 
stock,  onion  and  celery.  Strain  and  add  curry  powder, 
rice,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  come  to  a 
boil. 

This  may  be  served  in  bouillon  cups.  If  desired 
creamy,   add  one  tbsp.  of  flour  and  one  c.  of  cream. 

John  T.  Writt. 

TURKEY  SOUP. 

After  cutting  from  the  remains  of  a  turkey  as  much 
fat  as  possible,  break  the  bones  and  put  them  into  the 
soup  pot,  together  with  any  dressing  and  bits  of  tough 
meat  left  from  a  turkey  dinner  ;  cover  with  three  qts. 
of  cold  water  and  simmer  for  four  h.  ;  after  the  soup  has 
been  cooking  for  one  h.  add  one-third  of  a  c.  of  rice  ; 
after  three  h.  remove  the  bones  and  skim  off  all  the  fat. 
Put  three  tbsp.  of  butter  into  a  small  frying  pan  and 
when  melted  put  into  it  an  onion  and  two  stalks  of  celery 
cut  fine  ;  cook  slowly  for  twenty  m. ;  then  skim  the  vege- 
tables from  the  butter  and  put  them  into  the  soup.  Into 
the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan  put  two  tbsp.  of  flour, 
add  this  to  soup  and  after  cooking  ten  m.,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Strain  through  sieve  and  serve. 

Emma  Pipe?',  Pro. 

BEEP  TEA. 

Take  one  lb.  of  beef,  cut  into  very  small  pieces. 
Carefully  take  all  the  fat  from  it,  put  it  into  one  qt.  of 
cold  water,  and  boil  it  down  to  a  pt.  Strain  it  and  add 
a  little  salt. 


4  SOUPS. 

Take  one  tbsp.  of  arrowroot  and  three  tbsp.  of  sweet 
cream.  Beat  them  tog-ether  until  very  light.  Let  the 
tea  come  to  boiling-  heat,  then  stir  in  the  cream  and 
arrowroot,  but  don't  let  it  boil  afterwards. 

Mrs.  Brickhead. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Nine  lbs.  mutton,  all  lean  meat.  Put  it  into  a  vessel 
with  five  qts.  cold  water  and  add  one  carrot,  chopped 
fine,  one  onion  and  a  bunch  of  parsley.  Let  simmer  all 
day  and  add  another  qt.  of  water  if  necessary.  This 
should  be  jellied  when  cold.  Skim  off  the  fat,  season 
with  salt,  and  reheat  when  you  wish  to  use  the  broth. 

Mrs.  McClintock. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP. 

Remove  the  outer  peel  from  twenty-five  Italian  chest- 
nuts ;  pour  scalding-  water  over  them  and  rub  off  the 
inner  coating-.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  one  qt. 
soup  stock  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  h.,  drain,  rub 
them  throug-h  a  colander,  then  throug-h  a  sieve  or  pound 
to  a  paste.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  gradually 
the  stock  in  which  they  were  boiled,  then  add  extra  pt. 
of  stock ;  boil  once  and  draw  to  one  side  of  fire.  Beat 
up  yolks  of  two  raw  eg-g-s,  add  them  to  one  qt.  warm  milk, 
whisk  the  milk  into  the  soup,  taste  for  seasoning  ;  pour 
into  a  hot  tureen  and  send  to  the  table  with  croutons. 

CORN  SOUP. 

One  can  cornlet  or  corn,  one  pt.  cold  water,  one  qt. 
heated  milk,  two  tbsp.  butter,  one  tbsp.  chopped  onion, 
one  and  one-half  tbsp.  flour,  two  tsp.  salt,  one-fourth  tsp- 
white  pepper,  yolks  of  two  eggs. 


SOUPS.  5 

Chop  the  corn  and  cook  it  in  cold  water  twenty  m. 
Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  chopped  onion,  and  cook 
till  light  brown.  Add  flour  and  when  thoroughly  mixed 
add  milk  gradually.  Add  mixture  to  corn  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  through  sieve.  Heat  again. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  put  them  in  soup  tureen  and  pour 
soup  over  them  slowly.     Serve  as  soon  as  mixed. 

RICE  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  one-third  of  a  c.  of  rice,  a 
large  onion,  a  qt.  of  water,  three  tbsp.  of  butter,  three 
tsp.  of  salt,  half  a  tsp.  of  pepper  and  two  tbsp.  of  flour. 
Cook  tomatoes  and  water  together;  brown  the  onion  in 
the  butter,  then  skim  the  onion  from  the  butter  and  add 
to  the  tomatoes  and  water  ;  put  the  flour  with  the  butter 
remaining  in  the  pan  and  cook  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
then  add  the  other  ingredients.  After  simmering  slowly 
for  half  an  h.  strain  over  the  rice,  add  seasoning  and 
cook  slowly  for  an  h.  Stir  occasionally  to  prevent  the 
rice  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Serve 
very  hot.  Mrs,  H.  S.  Denny, 

RICE  SOUP. 

Two  qts.  of  any  kind  of  stock  ;  heat  and  skim  ;  then 
add  half  a  c.  of  rice  which  has  previously  been  cooked 
in  a  little  milk;  add  seasoning  to  taste  ;  simmer  fifteen 
m.  and  serve.  Mrs,  H.  S.  Denny, 

GREEN  CORN  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Three  pts.  of  stock,  a  qt.  of  sliced  tomatoes,  a  qt.  of 
corn  sliced  from  the  cob,  one  tbsp.  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  stock,  tomatoes 
and  corn  cobs  together  for  half  an  h.  ;  then  strain  into 
another  kettle  and  add   the  corn,  the  flour  and  butter 


6  SOUPS. 

mixed  tog-ether  and  enough  salt  and  pepper  to  season 
well.  One  tsp.  of  Worcestershire  sauce  is  a  great  im- 
provement.    Cook  forty  m.  Emma  Piper,  Pro. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

One  can  of  peas,  a  qt.  of  chicken  stock,  a  c.  of  cream 
or  milk,  two  tbsp.  of  butter,  two  tbsp.  of  flour,  one  onion. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  onion,  peas  and  stock 
tog-ether  for  twenty  m.  ;  then  remove  the  onion  and  rub 
the  peas  and  stock  through  a  sieve  ;  return  the  soup  to 
the  kettle  and  let  it  simmer  for  ten  m.  ;  rub  the  butter 
and  flour  to  a  cream  and  gradually  add  to  this  half  a  c. 
of  the  soup  ;  then  pour  all  tog-ether  and  add  pepper,  salt 
and  cream  and  boil  three  m.  Emma  Piper,  Pro. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Take  a  qt.  of  shelled  peas  and  two  qts;  of  water,  boil 
the  peas  until  soft  then  mash  through  a  colander  until 
all  the  pulp  has  passed  through  ;  then  throw  away  the 
skins,  and  return  the  pot  to  the  fire.  There  must  be  a 
piece  of  meat  boiled  with  the  peas,  either  a  piece  of 
middling  the  size  of  your  hand  or  a  shin  of  cold  cooked 
veal  or  lamb.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  bunch  of 
thyme,  parsley,  and  mint,  which  must  be  taken  out 
when  soup  is  dished.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour,  egg 
and  milk  as  you  would  do  chicken  soup. 

MARROW  BALLS- 

Mix  well  together  one-half  c.  finely  chopped  beef  mar- 
row, one  c.  sifted  flour  and  one-fourth  tsp.  salt.  Wet 
with  sufficient  ice  water  to  form  a  stiff  paste.  Form  into 
tiny  balls  the  size  of  a  marble,  drop  into  boiling  hot 
soup,  cover  closely  and  simmer  for  fifteen  m.  just  before 
serving  the  soup. 


SOUPS. 


SOUPS. 


SOUPS. 


10  SOUPS. 


FISH  AND  SAUCES 


FRICASSEE  OYSTERS. 

Take  two  oz.  of  butter  and  brown  in  a  stew-pan. 
Having-  wiped  the  oysters  dry,  put  in  the  butter  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  the  oysters  are  hot,  mix 
in  a  tbsp.  flour  and  a  good  piece  of  butter.  When  these 
have  been  cooked,   stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

Have  a  dozen  large,  fresh,  salt  water  oysters.  Open 
them  over  the  chafing-  dish  so  that  none  of  the  juice  es- 
capes. Season  with  black  pepper,  red  pepper,  one  tsp. 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  very  little  salt,  a  g-enerous  lump 
of  the  best  butter  and  alarg-e  g-lass  of  g-ood  Sherry  wine. 
After  this  is  all  in  the  chafing-  dish  lig-ht  the  lamp  and 
when  it  is  thoroug-hly  heated  throug-h  and  simmers,  it  is 
done.  The  oysters  should  look  plump  when  cooked 
enoug-h. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

For  this  dish  purchase  a  half  lb.  of  little  scalloped 
crackers,  for  the  effect  rather  than  for  the  cracker.  Do 
not    have  them  sweetened,  of    course.     Put  twentv-nve 


12  FISH  AND  SAUCES. 

oysters  over  the  fire  in  their  own  liquor.  Stir  carefully 
until  thej  come  to  a  boiling-  point.  Drain  carefully. 
Put  two  tbsp.  of  butter  into  a  frying-  pan  ;  add  a  tbsp. 
of  flour  ;  mix.  Add  a  g-ill  of  cream  or  milk  (cream  pre- 
ferable), and  when  boiling- add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  the  oysters.  Bring-  ag-ain  to  boiling-  point  ;  season, 
and  turn  into  a  dish.  Sprinkle  over  two  tbsp.  of  sherry, 
and  put  the  little  crackers  all  around  the  dish  as  a  gar- 
nish.     Serve  immediately. 

PANNED  OYSTERS. 

To  twenty-five  oysters  take  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg-.  Bring  it  to  the  boil  in  a  frying  skillet.  Wipe 
but  do  not  wash  oysters  and  place  them  in  the  butter  with 
two  small  pieces  of  mace.  Season  to  taste  with  salt, 
black  and  red  pepper  or  tobasco  sauce.  In  panning  oys- 
ters they  should  be  turned  constantly  and  never  placed 
on  top  of  each  other.  L.  W.  Washington.- 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  cut  fat 
bacon  in  very  thin  slices  and  wrap  an  oyster  in  each 
slice  and  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Heat  a  frying 
pan  and  put  in  the  little  pigs.  Cook  just  long  enough 
to  crisp  bacon,  about  two  m.  Place  on  slices  of  toast, 
cut.  in  small  pieces.  Do  not  remove  skewers.  Garnish 
with  parsley.  Have  the  pan  very  hot  before  the  pigs  are 
put  in  and  shake  continually,  do  not  burn. 

Josephine  Frank. 

SOFT  CRABS. 

Kill  and  clean  them.  Flour  and  fry  them  like  chick- 
ens.    Make  a  little  cream  gravy  and  put  under  them. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 


FISH  AND  SAUCES.  13 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

The  meat  of  three  g-ood  sized  lobsters  cut  in  pieces — 
not  too  small — over  which  pour  half  a  tumbler  of  sherry 
wine,  allowing"  it  to  stand  one  h.  Beat  twelve  eggs 
light.  Heat  one  qt.  cream  in  double  boiler,  add  eg-g-s, 
stirring-  constantly  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  custard  ; 
add  a  little  mace,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  this 
sauce  hot  over  the  lobster  and  serve.  It  is  best  to  keep 
the  lobster  and  wine  over  steam  while  preparing*  the 
sauce.     One-half  this  quantity  will  serve  five  people. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Thompson. 


SHAD  ROB. 

Soak  half  an  h.  in  salt  water  cold,  then  rinse  in  cold 
water  and  put  on  to  cook  with  just  enoug-h  water  to 
cover  it,  one  small  onion,  a  few  sprig-s  of  parsley,  a  piece 
of  celery,  salt  and  a  shake  of  red  pepper.  Boil  half  an  h. 
covered.  After  boiling,  mash,  add  a  little  milk,  one  tsp. 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  small  piece  of  butter  creamed 
with  a  tsp.  of  flour.     Last  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg*. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

SHAD  OUTLETS. 

Boil  a  shad,  also  the  roe.  Pick  out  all  the  bones,  cut 
up  and  mix  with  cream  sauce,  with  the  addition 
of  the  yolks  of  two  eg-g-s.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, sherry  wine,  parsley  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Stir  this  all  tog-ether — barely  thick  enough  to  mould  into 
cutlets  and  set  out  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  form 
into  cutlets,  dip  into  egg-  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  lard.  Emma  Parker,  Pro. 


14  FISH  AND  SAUCES. 

HALIBUT  A  LA  CREME 

Two  or  three  lbs.  of  halibut,  one  qt.  milk,  one  tea- 
cup flour,  two  small  onions,  one-fourth  lb.  butter,  nut- 
meg-, salt,  pepper,  bread  crumbs.  Boil  halibut  in  water 
into  which  salt  has  been  thrown.  When  done  flake  in 
fine  flakes  from  the  bones,  put  the  milk  and  onion 
chopped  fine  in  stew  pan.  Let  milk  come  to  boil,  add 
flour  made  smooth,  with  little  cold  water  and  seasoning-, 
stir  until  it  thickens,  add  butter,  strain  throug-h  sieve. 

Put  some  of  the  mixture  into  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served,  then  put  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  sauce, 
finishing-  with  the  sauce  on  top.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  place  in  oven  to  brown.  A  little  wine  add- 
ed to  the  seasoning  is  an  improvement. 


ROCK  FISH  A  LA  CREME. 

Take  a  rock  fish  and  rub  it  well  with  salt,  put  it  into 
a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  it.  As  soon  as  it  boils 
put  it  at  one  side  where  it  will  just  simmer.  Let  it  stand 
one  h.,  then  draw  all  its  bones.  Put  one  oz.  of  flour  in 
a  saucepan  to  which  add  gradually  one  qt.  of  cream, 
mixing  it  very  smoothly,  then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one  onion  chopped  fine,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  this  on  fire  until  it  forms  thick  sauce,  stir  in 
quarter  lb.  butter,  strain  through  sieve,  put  a  little  on 
serving  platter,  then  lay  the  fish  on  platter  and  turn  the 
sauce  over  it.  Beat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs  and 
spread  over  the  whole,  set  in  oven  and  bake  one-half  h. 
Be  careful  to  bake  only  light  brown,  nice  without  eggs 
but  not  so  handsome. 


FISH  AND  SAUCES.  15 

FISH  A  LA  CRBME. 

Boil  a  fish  weighing-  four  pounds  in  salted  water 
(white  or  blue  fish  are  best).  When  done  remove  skin 
and  bones.  Boil  one  qt.  of  rich  milk.  Mix  butter  size 
of  an  egg"  with  three  tbsp.  of  flour  and  stir  it  smoothly 
into  the  milk,  adding,  also,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  half  an  onion  minced  fine,  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt;  stir  until  it  has  thickened.  Butter  a  baking 
dish.  Put  in  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  dressing, 
having  the  dressing  on  top  ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  half  an  h.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of 
hard  boiled  egg.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 


FISH  BALLS. 

Mix  with  one  c.  of  mashed  potatoes  (unseasoned),  one- 
half  c.  of  shredded  codfish ;  add  to  this  two  eggs  and  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  beating  all  until  light  and  creamy. 
Shape,  roll  in  beaten  egg, which  has  a  tbsp.  of  milk  add- 
ed to  it ;  then  in  cracker  meal ;  drop  in  boiling  fat  and 
fry  to  a  light  brown.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Emma  Piper,  Pro. 


DRESSED  SALMON  WITH  SAUCE. 

One  can  salmon,  two  eggs,  two  tbsp.  butter,  one-half 
c.  bread  crumbs,  minced  parsley  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Mix  the  butter  through  the  salmon,  add  season- 
ing and  bread  crumbs  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  fish. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  add  them  last.  Turn  the  whole  mix- 
ture    into   a  well   buttered    mould    and   place    in    the 


16  FISH  AND  SAUCES. 

steamer.  Steam  for  three  quarters  of  an  h.,  then  place 
the  mould  in  cold  water  for  a  few  m.  and  turn  out  on  the 
dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

Sauck. — One  tbsp.  butter,  one  tbsp.  corn  starch,  one  c. 
milk,  yolk  of  an  egg",  juice  of  a  lemon.  Salt  and  red  pep- 
per to  taste.     Mix  same  as  cream  sauce. 


FISH  AND  SAUCES.  17 


18  FISH  AND  SAUCES. 


FISH  AND  SAUCES.  19 


20  FISH  AND  SAUCES. 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  c.  yellow  corn  meal,  two  c.  rye  meal,  one-half  c* 
molasses.  Even  tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  boiling-  water, 
and  stirred  in  molasses.  Three  c.  milk,  even  tsp.  salt. 
Steam  two  and  one-half  h.  Mrs.   William  Sturgis. 

ROLLS. 

Three  qts.  flour,  one  large  tbsp.  lard,  one  tsp.  salt, 
handful  sugar,  one  qt.  night's  milk,  warm,  one  cake  com- 
pressed yeast. 

To  mix  rolls — at  night — one  qt.  flour,  lard,  one-half 
the  milk,  salt  and  sugar  are  to  be  mixed  together.  Add 
the  rest  of  the  milk  with  the  yeast  dissolved  in  it,  and 
beat  hard.  Work  hard  with  the  hands,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  Work  in  the  morning  two  h.  be- 
fore breakfast,  and  put  in  roll  pans  to  rise  till  time  to 
bake  for  breakfast.  Mrs.  George  A.  Castleman. 

POTATO  ROLLS. 

Two  large  potatoes  boiled  in  one  qt.  water,  two  qts. 
flour,  one  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  one-half  c. 
luke  warm  water, mix  potato  water  and  yeast  and  set  in 
flour  at  nine  in  morning.      Work  into  stiff  dough  at  noon 


22  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

and  add  one  tbsp.  lard,  one  handful  sugar,  one  tsp.  salt. 
Let  it  rise  until  four  o'clock  when  it  should  be  kneaded 
slightly  and  rolled  out.  Cut  in  rounds  about  an  inch 
thick.  Dip  in  melted  butter,  fold  over  and  bake  in  time 
for  supper.  Mrs.  George  A.  Castleman. 

POTATO  ROLLS. 

Pare,  boil  and  mash  five  large  potatoes,  then  add  butter, 
size  of  an  egg,  one  tbsp.  of  sugar,  one  tsp.  of  salt,  yolk 
of  one  egg,  one  c.  of  warm  milk,  one  c.  of  yeast  and  in 
it  dissolve  one-half  tsp.  of  soda.  Flour  enough  to  make 
stiff  batter.  Make  them  in  the  morning  about  10  o'clock 
if  you  wish  them  for  tea.  Let  them  rise  until  time  to 
make  into  rolls.     We  bake  ours  in  muffin  pans. 

Mrs.  Albert  H.  Childs. 

TURN  OVERS. 

One  egg,  one  qt.  flour,  one  tbsp.  lard,  one  gill  or 
one-half  cake  yeast,  mix  with  warm  water.  Let  rise  over 
night.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  with  a  tumbler,  let  rise  one 
h.,  double  over  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

RUSK. 

One  pt.  new  milk,  one  small  c.  yeast,  flour  enough  to 
make  soft  batter.  This  is  to  be  set  at  night,  with  the 
flour  stirred  in  with  a  knife. 

In  the  morning  stir  in  one  c.  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one  tsp.  salt,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Then  stir  in  one  pt.  flour  and  let  rise  till  light. 
Work  into  small  cakes,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  quick 
oven.  "Friendship  Hill." 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  23 

BUSK. 

Two  qts.  flour,  three  egg's  beaten  very  light  and  sepa- 
rately, milk  and  butter  warmed.  Enough  to  make  them 
rich  with  butter  and  soft  with  milk,  two  full  c.  of  white 
sugar,  yeast,  nothing  outside.  Make  them  out  and  let 
them  rise  very,  very  light  before  baking;  they  can  scarcely 
be  too  light.  Bake  tolerably  quickly.  Make  about  noon 
and  let  rise  until  9  or  10  in  the  evening  ;  then  put 
them  in  the  pans  and  let  them  rise  all  night,  and  bake 
in  the  morning.  They  must  not  be  left  in  too  hot  a 
place — kitchen,  away  from  the  fire. 

Miss  Mary  Johnston. 

GRITS  MUFFINS. 

Nice  for  breakfast.  Two  c.  grits  boiled  until  soft, 
four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  tbsp.  butter  and  one- 
half  tbsp.  lard  stirred  into  the  grits  while  warm,  one  pt. 
corn  meal  and  one  qt.  milk.  The  whites  of  the  eggs  are 
to  be  added  last.  The  muffins  must  be  baked  and  served 
in  little  china  cups,  or  skillets. 

Mrs.   Walter  Smith. 

HERMITAGE  MUFFINS. 

One  pt.  of  flour,  one  pt.  of  milk,  two  eggs  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  The  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately  and  very 
light,  and  the  oven  should  be  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Geo.   C.  Burgwin. 
BROWN  FLOUR  MUFFINS. 
The  point  is  no  eggs.  One  qt.  milk,  two  tbsp.  of  yeast, 
enough  brown  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  one  small  c. 
of  brown  sugar,  lump  of  butter  ;  baked   in   little   cups, 
and,  if  made  well,  so  light  and  wholesome. 

M?'s.  J.  L.  Johnston. 


24  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

This  recipe  makes  two  dpz.  muffins. — Two  qts.  flour, 
two  large  potatoes,  one  qt.  water  that  potatoes  are  boiled 
in,  one  cake  compressed  yeast,  one  cooking-spoonful  lard, 
two  tbsp.  sugar  dissolved  in  potato  water.  Mash  pota- 
toes in  water  (one  qt.  when  boiled)  strain  through  sieve 
and  use  to  mix  dough — not  quite  as  stiff  as  bread  doughl 
Mix  smoothly,  do  not  work,  and  set  over  night.  In 
morning  work  out  on  board  and  roll  one-half  inch  thick 
with  rolling  pin.  Cut  with  good  sized  biscuit  cutter 
and  let  rise  for  one  and  one-half  or  two  h.  Slightly 
grease  griddle  and  bake  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Put 
in  drip  pan  and  set  in  warm  place  to  dry.  Butter  before 
serving.  These  muffins  may  also  be  toasted  on  both  sides, 
split  and  buttered.  They  will  be  found  even  nicer  done 
this  way  than  when  fresh.  Miss  Lulu  G.  Riach. 

SHERWOOD  BISCUIT. 

One  pt.  flour,  one  tbsp.  yeast,  and  water  to  make  a 
sponge  as  for  bread.  When  light  work  into  the  sponge 
one  qt.  flour,  one  tbsp.  lard,  one  pt.  buttermilk,  in  which 
a  pinch  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Work  well  for  ten 
m.  and  make  into  small  biscuit  with  the  hands. 

M?s.  J.  B     Washington. 

EGG  PONE. 

One-half  pt.  corn  meal,  one-half  pt.  flour,  sift  together, 
six  eggs,  two  tbsp.  butter  and  two  tbsp.  lard  melted  to- 
gether, one  qt.  morning's  milk.       Mrs.  J.  L.  D.  Spee7'. 

CORN  BREAD. 
One-half  c.  rice  put  to  soak  over  night.     Boil  in  the 
morning  till  soft.     Then  add  two  c.  white  corn  meal,  one 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  25 

heaping-  tbsp.  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  egg-  beaten 
separately,  milk  enoug-h  to  form  soft  batter,  a  little  salt 
and  last  one  tbsp.  baking-  powder. 

DELICIOUS  CORN  BREAD. 

One  qt.  corn  meal,  scalded  with  one  pt.  boiling-  water ; 
add  to  this  one  pt.  sweet  milk,  stir  to  a  smooth  batter, 
drop  a  larg-e  cooking-  spoonful  at  a  time  on  your  hot 
griddle  in  separate  cakes,  let  it  stand  to  g-et  lower  crust 
well  started,  and  then  place  the  griddle  in  hot  oven  on 
the  top  grate,  and  let  bake  about  half  h. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

One  c.  flour,  one-half  c.  corn  meal,  one  and  one-half 
tsp.  baking  powder,  one-fourth  c.  sugar  (or  less),  one- 
half  tsp.  salt,  one  egg,  one  c  milk,  one  tbsp.  butter. 
This  recipe  makes  one  doz.  muffins.  Grease  muffin  pans 
before  mixing  the  muffins.  Thoroughly  mix  and  sift 
together  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs  whole  and 
add  the  milk.  Add  the  milk  and  eggs  to  the  dry  ingred- 
ients and  lastly  thoroughly  mix  in  the  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty  m, 

DROP  BISCUIT. 

For  a  family  of  three,  take  two  c.  flour,  two  large  tsp. 
Royal  baking  powder,  small  pinch  of  salt,  sift  all  together 
and  stir  in  as  much  sweet  milk  or  cream  as  will  make  it 
as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred,  drop  on  greased  tins  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Nancy  Frank. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

One  pt.  flour,  two  tsp.  baking  powder,  one-half  tsp. 
salt,  scant  c  milk  or  water,  one  tbsp.  butter  or  lard.    Sift 


26  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  tog-ether  and  work  the  fat 
into  the  flour  with  the  finger  tips.  Shape  the  dough 
with  the  hands  and  cut  out  with  small  biscuit  cutter. 
Bake  from  twelve  to  fifteen  m.  in  a  quick  oven. 

"MARGARET'S"  SCOTCH   SHORT-BREAD. 

One  lb.  of  flour,  one-half  lb.  butter,  one-fourth  lb. 
sugar.  Cream  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour  and  sugar 
gradually.  Made  out  on  a  board  with  the  hand  in 
square  cakes.  Stick  it  very  well  with  a  fork.  Bake  on 
tin  sheets  in  an  oven  moderately  heated. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

WAFERS. 

One  qt.  wheat  flour,  one  pt.  of  milk,  a  heaping  tbsp. 
of  melted  butter,  mixed.  Thin  the  batter  with  water 
to  the  consistency  of  flannel  cakes.  Bake  in  a  wafer 
iron.  About  a  tbsp.  of  batter  to  each  wafer.  This  is 
the  full  recipe,  but  it  is  not  necessary  to  make  the  full 
quantity  at  once.  Half  is  about  what  one  needs  at  a 
time.  Mrs.  {Dr.)   Tom  Murdoch. 

SODA  CRACKERS. 

One  qt.  flour,  one  tbsp.  butter,  one-half  tsp.  soda,  one  tsp. 
cream  of  tartar.  Mix  well,  roll  thin  and  bake  immedi- 
ately. Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT. 

One  qt.  flour,  one  light  tsp.  salt,  piece  of  lard  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Mix  with  ice  water  to  a  rather  stiff  dough. 
Beat  with  meat  beater  until  the  dough  is  well  blistered. 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  27 

Make  into  biscuit  by  hand,  pressing  until  thin.  Biscuit 
must  be  stuck  with  fork.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Washington. 

POP-OVERS. 

Two  c.  of  milk,  two  c.  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half 
tsp.  of  salt.  Grease  the  pan,  and  put  in  oven  to  get  very 
hot.  Beat  the  eggs,  without  separating  them,  until  very 
light;  add  to  them  the  milk  and  salt.  Then  pour  this 
gradually  on  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  while.  Do  not 
add  too  rapidly  or  the  batter  will  be  so  liquid  that  it  can- 
not be  beaten  smooth.  Strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
any  little  lumps  which  may  remain.  Take  the  pans  from 
the  oven,  fill  them  half  full  with  the  batter,  put  them  in 
a  quick  oven  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes.  They 
should  swell  four  times  their  bulk.  The  pans  in  which 
these  Pop-Overs  should  be  baked  can  be  gotten  at 
Home's.  Mrs.  Horace  G.  Dravo, 

BUTTERMILK   CAKES. 

One  qt.  buttermilk,  one  tsp.  salt,  one  egg,  one  tsp. 
soda  or  saleratus,  flour  to  make  soft  batter.  Beat  the 
egg,  add  to  it  the  buttermilk;  add  salt  and  mix  well. 
Dissolve  soda  or  saleratus  in  two  tbsp.  boiling  water, 
then  stir  into  the  buttermilk  and  add  the  flour  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  while,  until  you  have  a  batter  that  pours 
smoothly  from  the  spoon.  Give  a  good  beating  and 
bake  quickly  on  a  hot  griddle. 

BREAD  CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  raised  bread-dough  large  enough  for 
one  loaf;  mix  into  it,  one  tbsp.  butter,  one  c.  sugar,  one 


28  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

c.  raisins,  and  one  of  currants,  one-half  tsp.  each  of  cin- 
namon, cloves  and  allspice,  let  rise,  which  will  take 
some  time,  and  bake  as  bread. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Into  a  deep  pail  or  pan  put  one  pt.  of  buckwheat,  a  c 
of  Indian  meal,  a  tsp.  salt,  and  one-half  c.  of  liquid  yeast; 
add  to  this  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and 
a  tbsp.  of  molasses;  beat  the  mixture  thoroughly  and 
place  where  it  will  rise;  the  batter  should  rise  and  fall 
again  before  morning.  In  the  morning  sift  into  the  bat- 
ter one  tsp.  dry  soda.  Stir  well  and  bake.  If  you  have 
them  every  morning,  save  a  little  batter  to  raise  them 
with  in  place  of  fresh  yeast  every  time.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Cut  the  corn  from  four  or  five  ears  of  corn,  break  an 
egg  into  it  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 
Drop  from  a  large  spoon  into  a  frying  pan  with  butter  in 
it.     Fry  on  both  sides  to  a  rich  brown. 

Mrs.  T.  F  Co  Hedge. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Grate  the  corn.  Stir  in  a  small  lump  of  butter,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  to  the  right  consistency 
for  cake  batter,  with  fresh  milk.  Bake  on  a  well  greased 
griddle.  "Friendship  HilW 

CORN  CAKES. 

These  cakes  are  not  good  except  when  made  in  the 
early  fall  from  the  first,  fresh  corn  meal.  Mix  the  corn 
meal  to  the  proper  consistency  for  cake  batter  with  fresh 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC  29 

milk.  Add  melted  butter — a  lump  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  season  with  salt  and  bake  on  well  greased  grid- 
dle. "Friendship  Hilly 

RICE  CAKES. 
One  e.  cold  boiled  rice,  (boiled  in  water)  add  enough 
cold  water  to  make  a  batter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  one  tbsp.  flour  or 
entire  wheat  flour.  A  scant  one-half  tsp.  baking-  powder 
to  be  mixed  in  just  before  cooking-.  Bake  on  soapstone 
griddle  without  any  grease  and  serve  with  cinnamon 
and  very  little  sugar.  Dr.    Van  Valzak. 

GERMAN  PANCAKES. 
Mix  tog-ether  two  and  one-quarter  c.  of  flour  and  one 
tsp.  of  salt;  separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eg-gs, 
beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  one  qt.  of  milk,  stir  grad-  - 
ually  into  the  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Whip  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  cut  them  into  the  batter  and 
beat  lightly  until  well  mixed.  Into  a  medium  sized  fry- 
ing-pan which  has  been  heating-  over  the  the  fire,  drop 
one  tsp.  of  lard  or  sweet  dripping-,  turning-  the  pan  until 
well  greased.  When  smoking-  hot  pour  in  sufficient  bat- 
ter to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  shake  until  light 
brown  on  the  bottom.  Turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side. 
Transfer  to  a  hot  plate  and  bake  the  remaining  batter  in 
the  same  way.  Butter  each  cake  as  it  is  taken  from  the 
pan,  piling  them  on  each  other;  if  desired  they  may 
also  bespread  with  a  little  marmalade,  jelly  or  powdered 
sugar. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Put  a  pt.  of  boiled  rice  into  apt.  of  sweet  milk  to  stand 
over  night ;  in  the  morning  add  a  pt.   and  a   half  flour, 


30  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

one  tsp.  salt,  one  tbsp  melted  butter  ;  beat  the  mixture 
well,  and  add  three  well  beaten  egg's,  and  one  pt.  of 
rnilk,  in  which  one  tsp.  Royal  baking-  powder  has  been 
stirred.     Cold  oatmeal  can  be  used  same  way. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 


GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mix  together  one  c.  of  white  and  one  c  Graham  flour, 
one-half  tsp.  salt,  beat  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately ;  dissolve  one  tsp.  soda  in  a  little  water,  and  stir 
into  one  pt.  of  sour  milk  ;  add  this  to  the  dry  mixture, 
and  when  well  mixed,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  and  a  tbsp. 
melted  butter.  Mrs.  H.  S\  Denny. 

FRITTERS. 

Two  eggs.  When  the  yellows  are  well  beaten,  stir  into 
them  one  pt.  of  cold  milk,  then  stir  in  three  c.  of  sifted 
flour,  (if  you  like  them  thinner  just  half  the  quantity), 
add  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites, 
putting  in  last  a  heaping  tsp.  of  baking  powder. 

Do  not  make  them  up  too  long  before  cooking.  Have 
the  lard  boiling  and  drop  in  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  at  a 
time.  Mrs.  H.  B.    Wilkins. 


WAFFLES. 

Three  eggs,  one  pt.  milk,  one  qt.  flour,  small  piece 
butter,  one-half  tsp.  salt,  one  tsp.  sugar,  two  tsp.  baking 
powder  add  last  thing.  The  best  way  to  mix  the  waffles 
is  in  a  pitcher,  using  a  Dover  egg  beater. 

"Cloud  Capped" 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  31 

RISEN  WAFFLES. 

Three  eggs,  one  qt  flour,  one  tbsp.  lard,  one-half  c. 
rice  boiled  very  soft  and  mashed,  a  little  yeast.  Let 
stand  over  night,  adding  the  rice  in  the  morning. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

RICE   WAFFLES. 

One  c  rice  boiled  soft  and  mashed,  one  tbsp.  butter  or 
lard  melted,  one  pt.  milk,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  thicken 
with  flour.  Mrs.J.B.   Washington. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  qt  flour,  one  gill 
yeast,  one  tbsp.  lard,  a  little  salt,  milk  to  make  thick 
batter.  Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 

GERMAN  TOAST. 

One  egg,  one-fourth  tsp.  salt,  one  c  milk,  six  or  eight 
slices  of  stale  bread.  Beat  the  egg  lightly,  add  salt  and 
milk.  Soak  the  bread  in  it  until  soft.  Have  a  griddle 
hot  and  well  buttered.  Brown  the  bread  well  on  one 
side,  place  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each 
slice,  and  turn  and  brown  it  on  the  other  side.  This 
toast  is  to  be  eaten  hot,  with  butter,  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  or  with  a  sauce. 

MILK  TOAST. 

The  bread  is  first  dipped  in  milk  with  a  little  salt  in  it, 
and  then  toasted  in  a  toaster  by  a  bright  fire  quickly,  and 
buttered.  It  ought  to  be  eaten  at  once,  without  stand- 
ing, as  it  is  not  as  light  after  it  gets  cold.     Mrs.  Plitt. 


32  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 


ROLLS,   MUFFINS,  ETC.  33 


34  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  35 


36  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 


EGGS  A  LA  MARTIN. 

Have  your  dish  hot.  Put  into  a  small  saucepan  a 
tsp.  of  butter.  Let  it  melt,  but  be  careful  it  does  not 
brown;  add  a  tsp.  of  flour,  and  then  slowly,  after  the 
flour  is  well  mingled,  a  c  of  milk  or  cream.  Add  four 
tbsp.  of  grated  cheese.  Stir  well,  and,  when  heated, 
pour  into  your  hot  dish,  and  with  great  care,  drop  into 
the  mixture  four  eg-gs.  Put  into  the  oven  and,  when  the 
eg-g-s  are  set,  serve  at  once. 

EGG   PUFFS. 

Add  a  dash  of  salt  to  the  white  of  an  egg,  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Place  this  in  a  deep  saucer  or  c-  and  place  in 
the  centre  the  unbroken  yolk.  Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
boiling-  water,  cover  and  let  cook  two  m.  Serve  in  the 
same  dish.     Nice  for  an  invalid. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Grease  pie  pan  with  butter,  cover  with  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  and  then  break  in  eggs,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake. 

Lizzie  G.  Williams. 


38  EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  slices  and  arrange  on  a  flat 
dish  over  which  pour  chicken  gravy  and   brown  in  oven- 

Emma  Piper,  Pro. 

ORANGE  OMELET. 

The  thinly  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  three  tbsp  juice, 
three  tsp.  powdered  sugar,  three  eggs.  Beat  yolks  of 
eggs  until  thick  and  creamy.  Add  the  sugar,  rind  and 
juice  and  cut  in  whites  of  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten 
until  stiff  and  dry.  Place  in  French  omelet  pan,  in  which 
one  tsp.  of  butter  has  been  melted,  and  let  cook  until 
firm.  Use  very  moderate  heat,  and  be  careful  not  to 
burn.  Dry  top  of  omelet  in  upper  part  of  oven,  fold  and 
turn  on  to  a  heated  platter.  Dredge  thickly  with 
powdered  sugar  and  score  with  a  clean,  red  hot  iron, 
in  diagonal  lines.     Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE. 

"Rich  American  Cheese"  is  the  best  for  all  cooking 
purposes. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

One-fourth  lb.  cheese  (grated),  one-fourth  c.  cream  or 
milk,  one-half  or  one  tsp.  mustard,  one-half  tsp.  salt, 
cayenne,  one.  egg,  one  tsp.  butter.  Dry  toast.  Put  the 
cheese  and  milk  or  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the 
mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  well  and  add  the  egg,  thor- 
oughly beaten.  When  the  cheese  is  melted,  stir  in  the 
mixture  of  dry  ingredients  and  egg,  then  the  butter  and 
cook  until  it  thickens  Stir  constantly.  Pour  over  the 
toast  and  serve  immediately. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE.  39 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Two  tbsp  butter,  one  and  one-half  tbsp.  flour,  one- 
half  c.  milk,  one  c-  grated  cheese,  three  egg's,  one-half 
tsp.  salt,  cayenne  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Put  butter  in  the 
saucepan  and  when  hot  add  the  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth;  add  the  milk  and  seasoning-.  Cook  two  m.  Re- 
move to  back  of  stove  and  add  well  beaten  yolks  and 
cheese.  Set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  buttered 
bake  dish  and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  m.  Serve 
the  moment  it  comes  from  the  oven.  Bake  in  very  mod- 
erate oven.     The  souffle  should  rise  in  fifteen  m. 

CHEESE   PUDDING. 

One  pt.  milk,  two  egg's,  one  pt.  bread  crumbs,  one  and 
one-half  c  grated  cheese,  one-half  tsp.  salt,  small  pinch 
soda  Put  milk  into  a  well  buttered  bake  dish,  add  the 
beaten  eggs;  then  the  crumbs,  grated  cheese,  salt  and 
soda,  which  have  been  mixed.  Bake  in  very  moderate 
oven  until  brown  on  top. 

CHEESE  PUFFS. 

One-fourth  lb.  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  lb  butter,  two- 
thirds  tsp,  mustard,  one-half  tsp.  salt,  one-half  lb.  grated 
cheese,  two  gills  milk,  pinch  cayenne,  four  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Boil  the  bread  soft  in  the  milk,  add  all  the 
ingredients  excepting  the  whites  of  the  eg-gs.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  add  the  whites.     Serve  at  once. 

Miss  J.  McC.  Taylor. 

CHEESE  FONDUE. 

In  a  bowl  put  one  c.  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  add  one  c. 
of  milk  and  let  stand  for  twentv  minutes.     Then  melt  in 


40  EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 

the  chafing-dish  one  tbsp.  of  butter  and  add  the  soaked 
bread  crumbs.  When  hot  stir  in  one  c.  of  grated  Ameri- 
can cheese,  one-half  a  tsp.  qi  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
When  the  cheese  is  melted  add  two  eggs  well  beaten;  as 
soon  as  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  put  out  the  light 
and  serve  on  toasted  crackers. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE.  41 


42  EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE.  43 


44  EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 


MEATS,   ENTREES. 


ROAST    TURKEY. 

Rub  the  turkey  well  with  lard  and  then  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Make  a  dressing*  with  bread  crumbs,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg",  lard  half  that  size,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt  and  sweet  marjoram  to  taste.  Put  the  turkey  in  a 
pan  with  a  little  hot  water  and  baste  frequently  while 
roasting-.  For  small  turkey  roast  one  and  one-half  h. 
in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

ROAST  QUAIL. 

Cut  celery  into  small  squares,  about  two  tbsp.  to  each 
bird;  one  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  to  four  birds.  Butter 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  to  each  bird.  Pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Stuff  the  birds,  put  bits  of  butter  over  them 
and  a  little  sifted  flour.  Add  a  little  water  in  the  baking- 
pan  and  baste  frequently.  Cook  about  twenty  m.  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

ROAST    CALF'S  LIVER. 

Have  the  butcher  cut  a  pocket  in  the  thick  end  of  the 
liver,  to  hold  the  stuffing-.  Melt  two  tbsp.  butter,  to 
which  add  two  c,  fine  bread  crumbs,  two  hard  boiled 
eg-gs  chopped  fine,  two  tsp   salt  and  one-half  tsp.  pepper. 


46  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

Stuff  the  liver  with  this  and  after  it  has  been  tied  or 
sewed  together  place  it  in  the  oven  with  one  c.  soup 
stock  and  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  Baste  frequently  while  roasting-.  Make  brown 
gravy  using-  the  stock  with  which  the  liver  has  been 
basted  and  adding-  a  little  more  currant  jelly. 

ROAST  SPICED  LIVER. 

Take  one  calf's  liver.  Prick  it  in  fifteen  or  twenty 
places  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife  In  ten  of  the  holes 
thus  made  place  small  bits  of  onion;  then  fill  three  holes 
with  one  clove  each  and  in  the  remaining-  holes  place 
bits  of  dried  red  or  green  pepper.  Baste  constantly  with 
the  following-  mixture:  one  c.  water,  one  tbsp.  butter 
and  one  tsp.  flour.     When  cold  slice  thin  and  serve. 

L     W.   Washington. 

PATE  OF  LIVER. 

Cut  one  lb  of  calf's  liver,  half  lb.  of  fat  salt  pork  and 
one  onion  into  dice,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
fry  four  in.  over  a  quick  fire,  shaking-  all  the  time 
Pound  and  rub  throug-h  a  wire  sieve;  while  hot  add  two 
dozen  truffles  chipped  line  and  half  a  pt  of  good  stock. 
Beat  the  mixture  about  ten  m.  and  place  in  a  mould. 
Let  it  stand  on  ice  three  or  four  hours.  Turn  and  serve- 
This  dish  may  be  varied  by  cooking  jelly  in  the  mould 
before  putting-  in  the  mixture.  Also  you  can  whip  one- 
half  pt.  clear  consomme  or  chicken  broth  which  should 
be  jellied  with  one-half  pt.  g-ood  stock,  jellied  till  both 
are  lig-ht  and  spongy;  add  this  to  a  pt.  of  stiff  whipped 
cream,  cayenne  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  small 
tin  of  pate'  de  foie  gras.  Stir  tog-ether  lig-htly  and  use 
around  the  mould  as  a  g-arnish. 


MEATS,   ENTREES.  47 

CHICKEN    LIVERS. 

Chop  a  small  onion  and  fry  it  in  butter  without  allow- 
ing- it  to  color;  put  in  the  livers  and  some  parsley  and 
fry  until  they  are  done  Take  out  the  livers,  add  a  little 
hot  water  or  stock  to  the  onions  and  parsley,  thicken  it 
with  some  flour;    strain,  season  and  pour  over  the  livers. 

CALF'S  HEART   STUFFED. 

Merely  wash  off  the  blood,  don't  soak  the  heart.  Stuff 
it  with  a  veal  force  meat  stuffing-,  or  common  stuffing- 
used  for  turkeys;  made  of  bread  crumbs,  onions,  a  little 
thyme,  sag-e,  egg,  pepper  and  salt;  and  tie  a  buttered  paper 
over  the  mouth  of  the  heart  to  keep  the  stuffing-  in  place- 
Put  it  in  a  small  baking-  pan  with  a  little  hot  water, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  nearly  two  h.,  basting-  frequent- 
ly. When  done,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  strain,  skim 
and  season  it,  and  pour  it  on  a  dish  around  the  heart 
Garnish  the  dish  with  onions  first  boiled  until  nearly 
done,  then  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  but- 
ter and  browned  in  the  oven.     Mrs  Can'oll  Winchester. 

SCALLOPED  CALF'S  HEAD. 

Cook  the  calf's  head,  tong-ue  and  heart  tog-ether  ;  the 
brains  separately.  Cook  all  slowly  with  as  little  water  as 
will  cover  them.  When  nearly  done,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  cut  off  all  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Cut  up  the 
other  parts,  and  put  into  a  baking-  dish  in  alternate 
layers.  Pour  in  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  was  cook- 
ed. Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  almost 
done  in  the  oven,  pour  on  a  g-enerous  glass  of  Madeira 
or  sherry.  Bread  crumbs  and  butter  are  to  be  put  between 
the  layers,  and  finish  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and 
butter. 


48  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

CANAPES   LORENZO. 

Chop  a  medium  sized  shallot,  fry  lightly,  without  col- 
oring-, in  two  oz.  of  butter,  add  one  tbsp.  flour  and  wet 
with  one  pt.  of  cream,  add  one  lb.  of  crab  meat,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  leave  on  the  fire  until  it  just  be- 
gins to  bubble.  Cut  slices  of  bread  one-fourth  inch 
thick  and  trim  round,  square  or  oval.  Toast  only  one 
side  of  bread,  put  your  ingredients  on  the  toasted  side 
and  cover  them  with  a  layer  one-eigiith  of  an  inch  thick 
with  the  following-  :  one-fourth  lb.  of  butter  and  one- 
half  lb.  grated  parmesan  cheese  well  mixed  tog-ether, 
and  seasoned  with  red  and  white  pepper.  Put  your 
canape  in  a  buttered  pan  and  color  in    the  oven. 

Mrs.  Charles  A.  Painter. 

CHOP  A  LA  MAINTENON. 

Put  one  tbsp.  of  butter  in  a  frying--pan,  when  hot  add 
one  tbsp.  of  flour.  Let  the  flour  and  butter  cook  for  a  few 
m.,  then  add  one  c.  of  bread  crumbs,  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine,  enoug-h  cream  to  make  a  paste,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Have  six 
French  chops  broiled  on  one  side  and  spread  the  mixture 
on  the  cooked  side.  Lay  in  a  roasting-  pan  and  place  in 
the  oven  to  brown.     Serve  with  rich  sauce. 

.   Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Hozve. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS  A  LA  MAINTENON. 

For  six  cutlets  use  four  tbsp.  of  chopped  mushrooms, 
one  of  chopped  onion,  one  g-enerous  tbsp.  of  butter,  one 
of  flour,  three  of  stock,  one  tsp.  of  minced  parsley,  one 
of  salt,  one-fifth  of  tsp.  of  pepper  and  three  gills  of 
Spanish  sauce.     Cook  butter  and  onion  tog-ether  five  m. ; 


MEATS,   ENTREES.  49 

then  add  mushrooms  and  seasoning-  and  cook  for  five  m. 
longer  ;  now  add  flour  and  stir  well  and  then  add  stock 
and  cook  three  m.  long-er.  Let  this  mixture  cool.  Have 
cutlets  from  the  ribs  cut  one  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Trim 
chops  and  with  a  sharp  knife  split  them,  without  sepa- 
rating- from  the  bone.  Spread  the  cooked  mixture 
inside,  press  together  lig-htly  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire 
eight  m.  Arrang-e  on  a  warm  dish  and  pour  the  Span- 
ish sauce  around  them.     Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs..  H.  S.  Denny. 

TO  COOK  VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  cutlet;  dip  it  in  a  beaten  eg-g- — let 
it  soak  well — then  shake  on  it  cracker  dust,  mace,  salt 
and  a  little  pepper.  Fry  it  a  nice  brown,  in  lard;  take 
it  out  and  keep  it  hot.  Strain  the  lard  it  was  fried  in, 
put  it  into  a  clean  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  flour  and 
one-half  pt.  milk  and  fine  cut  up  parsley;  stir  it  very 
smooth;  put  it  into  the  dish  under  the  cutlets  (it  should 
be  creamy  looking).  Mrs.  Johnston. 

CORN  BEEP. 
OLD   VIRGINIA    RECIPE. 

Get  the  best  of  beef — it  must  be  fat.  Salt  the  beef 
down  on  a  table  for  twenty-four  h.  and  then  put  into  a 
tight  barrel.  Make  a  pickle  of  nine  gal.  water,  nine  lb. 
salt,  three  lb.  brown  sug-ar,  one  qt.  molasses,  three  oz. 
saltpetre.  Boil  and  skim  the  top  off.  When  cold  pour 
over  the  beef,  which  must  be  kept  well  under  the  brine. 
It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten  days. 

Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 


50  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

WHITE  PUDDINGS. 

Thoroughly  mix  in  the  proportion  of  one  qt.  flour  to 
one  pt.  suet,  chopped  very  fine.  Season  in  pepper  and 
salt  and  stuff  in  sausage  skins.  Sausage  stuffers  can  be 
g-otten  at  any  of  the  house-furnishing*  stores. 

TO  COOK  SPRING-  CHICKENS- 

If  the  chickens  are  very  small  cut  them  in  half.  If 
they  are  larger  cut  them  in  four  or  even  six  pieces. 
Place  them  in  the  oven,  in  a  roasting-  pan,  with  a  c.  of 
water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  another  pan  over  top  of 
them.  Beat  butter  and  flour  tog-ether  very  light,  to  about 
the  consistency  of  thick  cake  batter  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  When  the  chickens  are  almost  done, 
take  from  the  oven,  drain  off  the  stock,  spread  them  over 
thickly  with  the  batter  and  return  them  to  a  quick  oven 
to  brown.  Make  cream  gravy  of  the  stock,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  the 
chicken.  Mrs.    Geo.  A.  Howe. 

FILLING  FOR  CHICKEN. 

Take  a  quantity  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  put  into  a  pan 
with  a  g-ood  sized  lump  of  butter  ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  and  brown  well.  Mrs.  N.  M.  Marker. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

Stuff  a  chicken  as  for  roasting-,  sprinkle  over  with 
plenty  of  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  After  tying-  legs 
and  wings  to  side  of  chicken,  dip  a  napkin  into  cold  water 
and  after  wringing  it  well  dredge  thickly  with  flour. 
Pin  the  chicken  up  in  a  napkin,  plunge  into  boiling 
water  for  fifteen  minutes  and  then  set  back  where  it  will 
simmer  for  two  hours.     Serve  with  egg  sauce.     This  is 


MEATS,   ENTREES.  51 

a  good  way  to  do  chickens  in  winter.  The  water  in 
which  the  chickens  are  boiled  makes  a  good  stock  for 
cream  of  rice  soup. 

FRIZZLED  BEEF. 

Cut  about  one  third  of  a  lb.  of  dried  beef  into  slices 
as  thin  as  shavings.  Beat  together  six  eggs  and  a 
quarter  of  a  c.  of  milk,  season  slightly  with  salt  and 
pepper;  melt  two  tbsp.  of  butter,  when  melted  add  beef 
and  stir  over  hot  fire  until  meat  begins  to  curl,  then 
draw  back  and  add  eggs  and  milk  and  stir  until  eggs 
begin  to  thicken. 

HAMBURG  STEAKS. 

Two  lb.  of  the  round  of  beef  chopped  very  fine ; 
season  with  half  a  tsp.  of  pepper,  two  tsp.  of  salt,  one 
fourth  tsp.  of  celery  seed,  and  one  tsp.  of  onion  juice. 
After  shaping  into  thin  cakes,  place  in  boiler  that  has 
been  buttered  slightly,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  eight 
in.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

DUTCH  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  piece  of  the  neck  of  a  beef  until  perfectly  tender, 
and  the  bones  come  out  easily.  Take  it  up  on  a  tray, 
let  it  cool,  then  pick  it  to  pieces.  Skim  the  grease  off 
the  liquor,  and  pour  the  latter  into  another  vessel ;  after 
cleaning  the  kettle,  return  the  meat  and  liquor  ;  when  it 
boils  thicken  with  sifted  meal  until  it  is  like  mush  ;  cook 
till  well  done,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  scorching. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Turn  out  into  pans 
or  crocks  and  when  cold  slice  and  fry  brown  like  sausage. 
This  is  fine  and  very  convenient  for  breakfast- 

Mrs.  D.  Negley. 


52  MEATS,    ENTREES. 

LIVER    HASH. 

Cut  cold  fried  or  stewed  liver  into  small  pieces;  for  one 
pt.  of  liver  cook  tog-ether  a  tbsp.  of  butter  and  a  tsp.  of 
flour  until  brown;  add  a  scant  c.  of  cold  water  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  As  soon  as  the  gravy  boils  up  put 
the  liver  into  it  and  cook  gently  for  twenty  m.  and  then 
add  one  tsp.  of  lemon  juice  and  one  tsp.  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce.     Serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

TURKEY  HASH. 

Cut  a  qt.  of  cold  turkey  into  dice,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  two  tbsp,  of  butter  into  frying-  pan  and 
when  it  is  hot,  not  brown,  add  a  tbsp.  of  flour;  stir  until 
the  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy  and  gradually  add  a 
pt.  of  cold  milk;  then  let  it  boil  up  once  and  after  season- 
ing add  the  seasoned  turkey.  Cook  for  eight  m.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast  at  once.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

BAKED  HASH. 

Two  c.  of  cold  meat  hashed,  one  c.  cold  mashed  pota- 
toes, one  stalk  of  celery  and  one  small  onion  both  minced 
line;  two  tbsp.  of  butter,  one-half  c.  of  water  and  two 
tbsp.  of  bread  crumbs.  Mold  and  bake  one-half  h. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce  which  will  be  given  on  page 
with  other  sauces.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

HASH. 

One  c.  of  meat  chopped  fine,  two  c.  hot  mashed  pota- 
toes, one-third  c.  boiling*  water  or  more,  one-half  tbsp. 
beef  fat,  one  tbsp.  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  onion 
juice.  Heat  the  beef  drippings  in  a  French  omelet  pan. 
Mix  all  the  other  ingredients,  beating-  thoroug-hly,  then 
spre'ad  smoothly  in  the  pan      Cook  over  moderate  heat 


MEATS,  ENTREES.  53 

for  about  one-half  an  h.  so  that  it  will  brown  slowly  and 
not  burn.  Do  not  stir.  Fold  like  an  omelet  and  turn  on 
to  serving-  dish,  garnishing-  with  parsley. 

STEWED  KIDNEY. 

Soak  a  beef  kidney  in  cold  water  one  h.  ;  then,  with  a 
sharp  knife,  cut  it  in  small  pieces.  Reject  all  fat  and 
gristle.  While  cutting-  the  kidney,  throw  each  piece 
into  cold  water.  Wash  well,  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  pt.  of  cold  water.  Slice  half  a  small  onion,  and 
add  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig-  of  parsley,  a  half  tsp.  of  celery 
seed,  or  a  piece  of  celery,  and  one  clove.  Skim  when 
it  boils  up,  then  cover  and  boil  slowly  three  h.  Turn  into 
a  dish.  Next  morning-,  make  a  sauce  of  one  tbsp.  of 
butter  and  flour,  and  heat  thoroughly.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  lemon  juice,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Wipe  the  sweetbreads  dry,  and  roll  them  in  grated 
cracker,  a  little  dry  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  and  fry 
them.  Melt  butter  (do  not  use  lard)  with  cream  and 
parsley,  and  pour  on  the  dish,  putting  the  sweetbreads 
on  top.  Mrs.  Johnston. 

BAKED  SWEETBREADS. 

Let  sweetbreads  stand  in  cold  water  for  half  an  h.  and 
then  parboil  for  ten  m.,  season  well  with  pepper  and 
salt,  roll  in  beaten  white  of  egg^  then  in  cracker  crumbs, 
dot  with  small  lumps  of  butter  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  one-half  h.  ;  serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Mc Colly. 


54  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

RISSOLLES. 

To  one  boiled  chicken,  chopped  very  fine,  add  two 
large  sweetbreads,  about  half  and  half,  also  chopped 
fine.  Put  one-half  pt.  cream  on  the  fire  with  four  oz. 
of  butter,  and,  when  it  boils,  stir  in  gradually  the 
chicken  and  sweetbreads,  to  which  has  been  added  two 
tbsp.  of  flour,  two  tsp.  cold  ham,  chopped  as  fine  as  -pos- 
sible, and  the  least  stispicion  (say  a  tsp. )  of  garlic,  chopped 
very  fine,  red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  These  must  be 
boiled  in  the  cream,  stirring-  all  the  time  to  keep  from 
burning-,  until  it  falls  easily  from  the  spoon,  which 
shows  that  it  is  sufficiently  done,  and  then  put  it  on  a 
dish  to  cool. 

Have  ready  some  puff  paste  rolled  as  thin  as  is  possible, 
which  cut  into  round  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small 
plate.  Place  about  a  spoonful  on  one-half "of  this,  turn 
over  the  other  half,  forming-  a  "  half  moon." 

Have  ready  the  beaten  yolks  of  some  eggs,  with  a 
very  little  water  in  a  flat  dish,  and  another  plate  (or 
flat  dish)  with  vermicelli  broken  into  pieces  about  two 
inches  long-.  Put  the  rissolle  into  the  egg*  first,  and 
then  into  the  vermicelli,  covering-  it  completely,  and  then 
place  it  in  the  lard  to  fry.  The  lard  must  be  boiling-, 
not  too  hot,  but  sufficiently  so  not  to  allow  the  rissolle 
to  lie  a  moment  in  it  without  cooking-.  When  slightly 
brown  they  are  done,  and  they  do  not  take  much  more 
than  two  m.  to  cook. 

Mrs.   H.   L.  Johnston. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Parboil  and  mash  four  sweetbreads,  boil  in  one-half 
pt.  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  small  piece  of  onion, 
one  blade  celery,  a  little  white  pepper  and  a  very  little 


MEATS,  ENTREES.  55 

nutmeg:.  Strain  this  from  the  cream  and  thicken  with 
two  tbsp.  flour,  then  add  the  sweetbreads  and  cook  for  a 
few  m.  Stir  enough  chopped  chicken  or  turkey  into  this, 
not  to  make  it  too  stiff  and  set  away  to  cool.  Beat  the 
volk  of  one  esfof  on  a  dish  and  add  a  little  milk.  Form 
your  croquette,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg-  and  again  in 
crumbs.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  Boil  a  few  at  a  time 
in  a  small  vessel  of  hot  lard.     Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 

CROQUETTES. 

Are  made  exactly  like  Rissolles,  except  an  onion 
browned  in  three  oz.  butter,  chopped  fine,  is  used  in  place 
of  the  garlic  and  ham,  and,  if  you  like,  parsley.  They 
are  made  into  croquette  form   and  fried  slightly   brown. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

CROQUETTES. 

For  one  and  one-half  doz.  or  more  croquettes,  chop  up 
four  boiled  sweetbreads  and  one  pair  chickens  very  fine  ; 
add  the  brains  of  a  calf  and  pt.  or  more  of  cream.  Mix 
them  up  as  light  as  batter,  have  the  bread  crumbs  rolled 
out,  put  the  batter  in  and  form  them  into  croquettes;  fry 
them  in  fresh  boiling  lard.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

CROQUETTES.  — (Meat  and  Hominy.) 

Put  half  a  c.  of  milk  into  a  frying  pan,  when  heated 
to  the  boiling  point  stir  in  a  c.  of  boiled  hominy-grits, 
a  c.  of  finely  chopped  meat,  a  tsp.  of  salt,  an  eighth  of 
a  tsp.  of  pepper  and  two  tbsp.  of  butter.  Stir  well  and 
when  the  mixture  begins  to  boil  add  one  well  beaten  egg. 
When  cold  shape  and  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  meal.  Fry 
in  fat  until  brown.  Emma  Piper,  Pro. 


56  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

One  pt.  of  mashed  potatoes,  half  a  c.  of  hot  milk,  two 
generous  tbsp.  of  butter,  one  tsp.  of  salt,  two  eggs. 
When  the  potatoes  have  been  mashed  smooth  and  light 
beat  in  the  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  then  one  egg 
beaten  light.  Beat  the  second  egg  and  use  for  breading 
the  croquettes.     Fry  in  fat  until  they  turn  a  rich  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

TO  DRESS  TERRAPIN. 

Melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  the  saucepan  with  the  terrapin 
and  stir  in  flour  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  a  c. 
of  cream — more  or  less,  as  you  choose.  For  three  terra- 
pins, one  c.  will  be  enough.  For  six  terrapins  you  will 
need  one  pt.  cream  and  more  butter  and  flour. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

CHICKEN  FOR  LUNCH. 

Stew  one  chicken  in  pt.  of  water  in  a  double  boiler  and 
when  tender  lift  the  chicken  out  and  pour  one  pt.  of  rich 
cream  into  the  chicken  broth.  Thicken  with  a  little 
flour  and  milk,  and  just  before  taking  out  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Strain  the  whole  thing,  salt  and 
pepper  the  chicken  before  boiling  and  put  a  lump  of 
butter  in  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  is  boiled. 

Miss  J.  McC.  Taylor. 

CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

Three  pts.  cold  boiled  chicken,  three  hard  boiled  eggs, 
three  heaping  tbsp.  flour  that  has  been  browned  in  the 
oven,  one-half  pt.  chicken  stock,  one  pt.  rich  milk,  salt, 
cayenne  pepper,  one-half  tsp.  mace,  one  c.  butter,  a  wine 
glass  of  madeira.     Cut  the  chicken  fine,  rub  eggs  through 


MEATS,  ENTREES..  57 

a  sieve.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour,  next  the 
milk  which  has  been  scalded,  and  the  stock.  When  this 
mixture  has  thickened  add  the  minced  chicken,  egg  and 
seasoning-.  Cook  slowly  for  one-half  an  h.,  add  the  wine 
and  serve  on  toast. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

Season  and  fry  brown  a  calf's  liver,  then  hash  it  fine 
and  dust  thickly  with  flour.  Mix  two  tsp.  mustard,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  c.  of  water- 
Let  it  cook  a  little,  add  the  chopped  liver  and  simmer  a 
few  m.  together  and  serve  hot.  A  little  wine  improves 
it.  Miss  Loulie  MacgilL 

MARROW  ON  TOAST. 

Boil  a  marrow  bone.  Remove  the  marrow,  slice  thin, 
and  serve  at  once  on  fresh  buttered  toast,  which  has  been 
slightly  softened  witri  hot  water.  Season  with  salt  and 
red  pepper.  Z.  W.   Washington. 

DEVILED  DRESSING. 

Make  one  c.  brown  sauce  to  which  add  one  tbsp.  vine- 
gar, one  ssp.  mustard,  one  ssp.  black  pepper  and  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.  This  dressing  can  be  used  with 
ham,  turkey,  or  roast  beef.  When  turkey  or  beef  are 
used  the  brown  gravy  may  be  used  instead  of  the  brown 
sauce.  In  deviling  meat  it  should  first  be  thoroughly 
heated  on  the  broiler  and  then  turned  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  dressing  where  it  can  finish  cooking.  Turkey 
wings  and  legs  or  the  breast  cut  thick  is  best.  When 
beef  is  used  it  should  be  very  rare  and  cut  thick. 

L.   W.   Washington. 


58  MEATS,  ENTREES. 

FRIED  FROGS'  LEGS. 

No.  1.  Wash  and  boil  ten  m.  in  salted  water;  drain 
and  when  cool  dip  the  leg's  separately  into  cracker  dust, 
then  into  beaten  egg-,  again  into  cracker  dust  and  fry  to 
a  nice  brown  in  a  kettle  of  hot  lard  or  butter.  Send  to 
the  table  hot,  garnished  with  parsley  or  cress. 

No.  2.  Fry  the  skinned  frog's  legs  in  butter;  cook  some 
fresh  mushrooms  in  the  pan  at  the  same  time  if  con- 
venient. Place  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  mushrooms  and 
pour  over  them  a  Poulette  sauce.  Miss  Hargnett. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

After  boiling-  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones,  shred  the  meat  intc 
small  pieces  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
the  bottom  of  the  mould  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg  and 
lemon,  then  a  layer  of  chicken.  Fill  the  mould  to  the 
top  with  alternate  layers  of  chicken  and  egg".  Boil 
down  the  stock  until  there  is  about  a  c.  left.  Season  it 
well  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken.  It  will  sink  through 
the  meat  forming  a  jelly  around  it.  If  there  is  any 
danger  of  it  not  being  stiff  enough,  a  little  gelatin  may 
be  soaked  and  added  to  the  stock. 

Mrs.  Ca?Toll  Winchester. 

MINCED    CHICKEN  WITH  JELLY. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  with  mace, 
salt,  pepper,  onion  and  celery.  When  done,  take  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  put  the  bones  in  the  chicken  water, 
and  let  it  cook  to  a  jelly.  Cut  the  meat  and  liver  as  fine 
as  possible.  Mince  and  pound  in  the  mortar  till  quite 
soft.  Season  with  half  a  small  boiled  onion,  chopped 
fine,  two  wine-glasses  of  cream,  pepper,  salt,  the  yolk  of  a 


MEATS,  ENTREES.  59 

hard  boiled  egg,  one  dessert  spoon  of  "  Reading-  "  sauce, 
one  of  mushroom  sauce  or  any  other  you  prefer,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  one-fourth  lb.  of  butter.  Strain  the  stock, 
put  part  of  it  in  a  mould.  When  stiff,  press  the  meat  on 
top  of  jelly,  leaving-  a  little  space  round  it;  then  pour  the 
rest  of  stock  round  it.  "  /put  my  chicken  in  a  bowl  and 
turn  it  out  and  put  jelly  round  it,  and  I  put  calves'  feet 
(or  Cox's  g-elatin)  in  with  the  chicken  bones  to  help  stiffen 
it,  especially  in  warm  weather.  Of  course,  you  must  take 
all  the  grease  off  the  jelly,  and,  if  cloudy,  clear  with  white 
of  an  egg."  M?s.  Neil. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  enough  water  to  make  three  pt.  of 
stock  when  done.  Soak  one  box  of  gelatin  in  one-half  c. 
of  cold  water.  Clear  the  stock  with  white  of  egg,  pour 
over  the  gelatin  while  hot  and  season  with  salt,  red  and 
black  pepper,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  pt.  cook- 
ing sherry.  Line  the  mould  with  slices  of  hard  boiled 
egg  and  lemon  then  put  in  the  chicken,  shredded  in 
small  pieces  and  pour  in  as  much  jelly  as  the  mould  will 
hold.  Pour  the  rest  of  the  jelly  into  a  bowl  and  place 
the  moulds  on  or  near  the  ice.  When  ready  to  serve, 
turn  out  the  mould  with  the  chicken  in  it  and  trim  the 
dish  with  spoonsful  of  the  clear  jelly. 

JELLIED  VEAL. 

Use  a  knuckle  of  veal  weighing  about  four  lbs,  three 
hard  boiled  eggs,  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  tbsp.  of  minced 
onion,  one  of  parsley,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  piece  of  stick  cin- 
namon, half  a  dozen  cloves,  two  sprigs  of  thyme,  a  level 
tsp.  of  pepper,  two  tbsp.  of  salt  and  three  pt.  of  water. 
Break  veal  in  several  pieces  and  put  into  a  kettle   with 


60  MEATS,    ENTREES. 

the  water.  Tie  up  all  the  seasoning,  except  the  salt, 
pepper  and  lemon,  in  a  muslin  bag-  and  put  them  in  the 
kettle  with  the  veal.  When  the  contents  boil,  skim  care- 
fully and  cook  slowly  four  hours.  Then  take  up  the 
meat,  free  it  from  the  bones  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  the  meat  into  a  clean  stew  pan  and  strain  over  it  the 
water  in  which  it  was  boiled;  add  lemon  juice,  pepper 
and  salt  and  simmer  for  half  an  h.  Slice  the  eggs 
and  arrange  in  a  mould,  then  a  layer  of  veal  and  then  egg 
until  all  has  been  used.  Set  in  a  cold  place  three  or  four 
h.  At  serving  time  turn  on  a  flat  dish  and  garnish  with 
parsley.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Five  lbs.  veal  cut  from  leg — one  c.  cracker  crumbs 
powdered  fine,  one  and  one-half  c.  stock,  three  eg-gs, 
three-fourths  lb.  fat  salt  pork,  one-fourth  c.  dried  bread 
crumbs,  one  tbsp.  chopped  onion,  one  scant  tsp.  thyme, 
one-half  tsp.  sweet  marjoram,  one-half  tsp.  summer 
savory,  three  generous  tsp.  salt,  one  of  white  pepper, 
two  tbsp.  butter.  Chop  veal  and  pork  fine  and  add 
cracker  crumbs,  seasoning,  two  of  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  c.  stock;  mix  well  with  hands.  Butter  a  flat-cake 
pan;  form  mixture  into  a  loaf  four  inches  high  and  five 
wide  and  place  in  pan.  Beat  third  egg  well  and  spread 
on  loaf  with  brush;  sprinkle  loaf  with  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Put  in  rather  hot  oven  and  bake  three  hours,  basting 
frequently,  with  one-half  c.  stock  and  two  tbsp.  melted, 
butter.  A  little  celery  seed  or  celery  sauce  is  an  addition 
to  the  mixture. 


MEATS,  ENTREES.  61 


62  MEATS,  ENTREES. 


MEATS,  ENTREES.  63 


64  MEATS,  ENTREES. 


PORK. 


WM.  BAKER  DORSET'S  RECEIPT  FOR  CURING  HAMS. 

One  tsp.  of  best  saltpetre,  one  tbsp.  of  brown  sugar, 
to  be  rubbed  on  the  fleshy  side  of  each  ham,  fine  salt 
and  ground  alum  salt  mixed  half  and  half  to  be  rubbed 
on  leaving-  salt  on  the  ham  about  as  thick  as  would  track 
a  rabbit ;  pack  away  into  a  hog-shead  or  troug-h  that  will 
hold  the  brine.  Let  them  remain  six  (6)  weeks,  then 
hang-  up  hock  downwards,  not  touching-,  and  smoke  with 
green  hickory  wood  until  about  the  10th  of  March  or 
before  the  fly  appears.  Then  take  each  ham  and  pack 
them  away  in  a  tig-ht  box  with  a  cover  to  keep  out  rats 
and  mice.  Put  sticks  between  them  so  that  they  do  not 
touch,  then  pour  dry  hickory  ashes  over,  so  as  to  cover 
them  entirely. 

After  the  hams  have  been  thus  put  away,  say  three 
weeks,  examine  them  in  warm  sultry  weather.  They  will 
sweat  and  form  a  mould  over  them.  Put  them  out  in  the 
sun  for  a  few  hours,  to  give  them  a  g-ood  airing- ;  sun 
must  not  be  too  hot ;  then  re-pack  as  before,  pouring-  the 
same  ashes  over  them.  Do  this  as  often  as  necessary. 
This  is  for  hams  of  hog's  weig-hing-  150  lbs. ;  all  else  is  to 
be  determined  by  g-ood  judg-ment. 

Mrs,  H.  L.  Johnston. 


66  PORK. 

CURING    HAMS. 

For  1,000  Lbs. 

Three  pks.  salt,  three  and  one-half  lbs.  saltpetre,  two 
qts.  hickory  ashes,  two  qts.  molasses,  two  c.  red  pepper, 
mixed  well  together.  Rub  each  piece  of  meat  well  with 
the  above  ingredients  and  pack  down  in  a  tub.  Keep 
in  salt  for  six  weeks,  then  hang  up  and  smoke  for  six 
weeks  with  hickory  wood. 

For  200  Lbs. 

Four  and  three-fourths  qts.  salt,  three'-fourths  lb.  salt- 
petre, one-half  c.  red  pepper,  one  pt.  ashes,  one  pt. 
molasses. 

For  150  Lbs. 

Three  qts.  salt,  one-half  lb.  saltpetre,  one  pt.  sugar, 
two  large  spoonfuls  red  pepper,  one  pt.  ashes. 

An  old  Virginia  receipt.        Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 

TO  CURB  HAMS. 

This  is  the  way  Mrs.  Henry  Clay  made  the  celebrated 
Ashland  hams:  For  every  ten  hams  of  moderate  size  she 
took  three  and  a  half  lbs.  of  fine  salt,  one  lb.  of  salt- 
petre, and  two  lbs.  brown  sugar,  and  after  mixing  thor- 
oughly together,  rubbed  the  hams  therewith  on  both 
sides.  They  were  then  packed  in  a  tight  box  and  put 
in  a  cool  outhouse  for  about  three  weeks,  then  taken 
out  and  put  in  a  pickling  tub  or  hogshead,  and 
covered  with  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg. 
After  three  weeks  they  were  taken  out,  thoroughly 
rubbed  with  fresh  salt,  and  hung  up  in  a  well  ventilated 
house  for  a  few  days  to  dry,  then  hung  in  the  smoke 
house  and  smoked  with  green  hickory  or  walnut  wood 


PORK.  67 

until  the  color  of  bright  mahogany,  when  each  ham  was 
sewed  up  in  canvas,  the  bag-  whitewashed  and  hung-  up 
to  dry. 


RECEIPT  FOR  CURING  BACON. 

Hog's  weighing  from  one  hundred  and  thirty  to  one 
hundred  and  fifty  lbs.  are  regarded  as  the  most  suitable 
size.  The  pork  should  be  fat  and  nicely  dressed.  After 
the  pork  has  lost  the  animal  heat  and  is  entirely  cool 
throughout,  cut  it  out,  rounding  the  ham  and  cutting 
off  the  feet  below  the  hock.  To  each  ham,  well  rubbed 
on,  put  one  tsp.  saltpetre  (or  more  if  the  ham  is  large) 
well  rubbed  on  both  sides  and  then  salt  well  with  equal 
parts  of  fine  and  ground  alum  salt,  and  pack  the  pieces 
as  close  as  possible  on  a  platform,  the  skin  side  down. 
It  should  remain  thus  five  or  six  weeks  and  then  taken 
up,  strings  securely  inserted  in  the  fat  end  through  the 
skin,  all  the  salt  well  brushed  off  and  a  paste  of  equal 
parts  of  common  molasses  and  black  pepper  applied  to 
the  flesh  side,  and  over  this  as  well  as  the  other,  a  heavy 
coat  of  strong  hickory  ashes  and  then  hung  up  to  be 
smoked  with  hickory  or  red  oak  wood  over  a  moderate 
fire  for  about  eight  or  ten  weeks  when  it  should  be  taken 
down  before  warm  weather,  carefully  examined  but  not 
scraped  and  put  in  bags  fitting  tolerably  close,  and 
again  hung  up  to  remain  until  wanted.  The  bags  must 
be  sewed  up  closely  and  the  meat  however  kept  dark. 
They  will  be  good  in  June,  but  much  better  in  August 
or  September.  Newman, 

From  Mrs.  R.  C.  Johnson. 


68  PORK. 

CHEESE  SOUSE. 

Take  the  head  and  jowl  and  boil  them  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  little  onion  until  the  meat  is  tender,  then 
cut  it  into  thin  slices.  Skin  and  strain  the  liquor  and 
season  with  allspice,  cloves  and  pounded  thyme  and  a 
little  red  pepper.  Return  the  meat  to  the  pot  in  which 
the  liquor  is,  and  boil  down  to  a  thick  jelly,  then  put  it 
into  a  mould.  Mrs.  George  E.  H.  Brandon. 

TO  MAKE  SOUSE   CHEESE. 

The  feet  and  heads  must  be  thoroughly  cleansed  and 
placed  in  a  weak  brine  for  24  hs.,  drain  out  of  this  and 
put  them  on  in  cold  water  and  in  separate  vessels,  add- 
ing- a  little  salt  and  boil  gently  until  thoroughly  done. 
The  meat  must  leave  the  bone.  Then  in  the  proportion 
of  one  head  to  12  feet,  as  soon  as  cold  enough  to  bear  the 
hands  in  it,  pick  to  pieces  and  mash  well,  discarding  every 
bone,  and  adding  a  small  quantity  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  feet  have  been  boiled.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
a  little  vinegar,  place  it  in  moulds,  put  a  plate  or  dish 
on  them  with  weight  and  it  will  be  ready  to  turn  out  in 
24  hs.  It  must  not  freeze  or  it  will  fall  to  pieces.  Pre- 
pare a  weak  brine,  let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  add  vinegar  to 
it  until  you  can  taste  it,  strain  it  and  place  in  a  tub  or 
keg  in  which  you  can  keep  the  souse  immersed.  The 
vinegar  should  be  light  or  it  will  darken  the  souse  which 
should  be  perfectly  white.  Some  persons  in  cleaning 
the  feet  singe  the  hair  off.  This  discolors  them  and  im- 
parts a  taste.  They  should  be  cleansed  by  repeated 
scraping  and  scalding.  Should  you  wish  to  souse  the 
feet  alone  prepare  in  the  same  way  and  only  boil  until 
the  skin  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  They  are  kept  in 
the  same  brine  with  the  cheese.  Newman. 


PORK.  69 

PUDDING. 

One  jowl,  two  tongues,  four  hearts,  four  livers,  to  be 
boiled  until  very  tender  and  run  through  a  sausage  grinder. 
Then  add  one  small  onion,  grated,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  mix  with  sufficient  water,  in  which  the  heads 
and  feet  were  boiled,  to  make  quite  soft,  but  not  thin. 
Stuff  in  skins  and  dip  (for  a  min  )  into  the  boiling  water 
in  which  the  livers,  etc.,  were  boiled.  An  old  Virginia 
receipt.  Mrs.  J*  B,   Washington. 

ROAST  PIG. 

Take  a  pig  of  about  eight  or  ten  lbs.,  clean  well,  leav- 
ing on  the  head  and  feet.  Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  two 
eggs,  one  tbspo  of  butter,  sugar,  thyme,  onion  chopped 
and  pepper  and  salt,  Stale  bread  is  best.  Stiffen  with 
water  and  put  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  tbsp.  of  lard  to 
brown,  mixing  in  the  eggs,  butter  and  seasoning.  When 
brown  stuff  the  pig  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Truss  with 
the  front  legs  bent  backward  and  the  back  legs  forward. 
Brush  the  pig  with  butter  or  salad  oil.  Baste  frequently. 
Cook  until  thoroughly  done  and  make  the  gravy,  (after 
removing  the  pig),  by  adding  a  little  water  thickened 
with  flour,  and  the  liver  and  heart  of  the  pig  (which 
have  been  cooked  in  the  pan  with  it),  chopped  fine  and 
mixed  in.     Serve  in  a  gravy  dish. 

TO  BOIL  AND  BAKE  A  HAM. 

The  ham  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for  twenty- 
four  h.  Then  put  on  the  fire  and  simmer  slowly  for 
seven  or  eight  h.     Take  from  the    fire   and  remove  the 


70  PORK. 

skin.     Stuff  the  ham  all  over  closely  with  whole  cloves 
and  place  in  a  large  pan. 

Boil  one  qt.  vinegar  or  cider  with  one  and  one-half  pts. 
brown  sugar,  and  pour  over  the  ham.  Place  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  and  baste  every  few  m.  while  it  is  baking. 
It  should  bake  for  at  least  three  or  four  h.  One  pt. 
sugar  and  one  pt.  vinegar  is  often  enough. 

"  Friendship  Hill" 

HAM  PATTIES. 

One  pt.  of  ham,  which  has  previously  been  cooked,  mix 
with  two-thirds  pt.  bread  crumbs,  which  have  been  moist 
ened  with  milk.  Place  this  mixture  in  small  china  cups 
or  skillets  which  have  been  buttered,  break  an  egg  over 
each  one,  sprinkle  the  tops  thickly  with  bread  crumbs. 
Add  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  small  pieces  of  butter  and 
bake  in  quick  oven  till  browned  over.  A  nice  breakfast 
dish. 


PORK.  71 


72  PORK. 


PORK.  73 


74  PORK. 


VEGETABLES, 


TO  BOIL  RICE. 

Wash  it  well  in  cold  water.  Throw  it  into  plenty  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  it  say  twenty  m.  Then  drain  it 
through  a  colander,  and  set  the  colander  on  a  saucepan 
or  something*  to  keep  it  hot  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
When  used  as  a  dessert  cook  it  in  the  same  way,  and 
when  drained  spread  it  on  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cold, 
add  rich  milk,  wine  or  brandy,  sug-ar  and  nutmeg-.  To 
be  served  very  cold.  It  is  very  nice  with  stewed  chicken 
and  curry.  Miss  Hettie  Parker. 


RICE. 

One  tea  c.  of  rice,  two  qts  of  water,  boil  forty-five  m. 
with  a  little  salt  and  do  not  stir.  After  boiling-  turn  into 
a  colander  and  place  under  cold  spig*ot  and  rinse  thor- 
oughly. Then  set  colander  into  a  moderate  oven  for 
three  quarters  of  an  h.  At  the  end  of  that  time  it  will 
be  white  and  dry  and  each  grain  separate. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Burg  win. 


76  VEGETABLES. 

FRIJOLES. 
National  Dish  of  Mexico. 

Soak  two  qts.  of  beans  over  nig-ht,  then  boil  four  h- 
with  a  small  quantity  of  soda.  Cut  up  some  onions  very 
fine  and  fry  them  a  lig-ht  brown ;  add  to  them  a  ladle  of 
the  beans,  stir  and  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add 
more,  until  all  are  perfectly  smooth.  Add  salt  and  lard, 
enoug-h  lard  to  keep  the  beans  all  the  time  from  burning- 
or  sticking-  to  the  pan.  In  another  pan  brown  two  heap- 
ing- tbsp.  flour  ;  add  this  with  two  tbsp.  molasses  to  the 
beans  Put  them  away  in  a  jar  and  every  time  they  are 
used  beat  up  again  with  lard,  and  serve  with  fried 
bananas  over  the  top.  Mrs.  Jere  S.  Black. 

OKRA. 

Take  a  pt.  of  pods  and  after  removing-  the  stems  put 
them  on  to  boil.  If  the  pods  are  young  boil  them  thor- 
oughly for  about  an  h.  Prepare  in  the  meantime  a 
half  pt.  of  any  kind  of  stock  and  add  a  small  onion  with 
three  or  four  cloves  stuck  in  it,  also  a  small  tomato;  stir 
thoroug-hly  and  when  done  pass  it  throug-h  a  strainer, 
add  pepper  and  salt,  also  a  very  small  quantity  of  rum, 
only  enoug-h  to  make  the  sauce  the  consistency  of  rich 
gravy.  Strain  the  water  from  the  okra,  then  place  the 
okra  in  a  dish  and  serve  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 
The  pods  should  be  boiled  until  very  soft. 

Mrs.  J.  H  Shoenberger. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Half  a  lb.  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  two  tbsp.  of  minced 
onion,  a  heaping-  tsp,  of  minced  parsley,  butter  the  size 
of  an  eg-g-.     When  the  butter  is  hot,  throw  in  the  onion 


VEGETABLES.  77 

and  fry  to  a  light  brown;  then  add  potatoes.  Turn  until 
they  are  thoroughly  heated  and  brown;  then  add  parsley 
and  seasoning-  of  salt  and  pepper.      Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

POTATOES  ATJ  GRATIN. 

Butter  a  large  platter  and  spread  upon  it  a  qt.  of  cold 
potatoes  cut  into  small  cubs;  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  sprinkle  a  tsp.  of  fine  chopped  parsley  over  the  dish; 
cover  with  a  pt.  of  cream  sauce  and  place  in  the  oven  for 
ten  or  twelve  m.  In  that  time  the  potatoes  should  be- 
come slightly  browned. 

Sauce. — Melt  two  tbsp.  of  butter,  when  melted  add 
one  tbsp.  of  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  frothy,  then 
draw  back  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and  gradually 
add  a  pt.  of  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  boil 
for  a  m.  Mrs.  H.  S\  Denny. 

STEWED  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  dice.  Potatoes 
which  have  been  on  ice  at  least  six  h.  are  the  best  for 
this  purpose.  Put  a  c  of  cream  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut  in  the  stewpan,  and  when  thoroughl}T  heated  add 
the  potatoes.  The  potatoes  should  only  remain  on  the 
stove  long  enough  to  thoroughly  heat  through  and  to 
slightly  thicken  the  cream.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

"Friendship  Hill." 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Select  and  wash  fine,  large,  old  potatoes,  bake  until 
mealy,  when  cold  cut  in  half,  remove  all  the  inside  of 
the  potato,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin.  To  each 
potato  add  one  tbsp.  milk,  one  tsp.  cream  or  butter ;   beat 


78  VEGETABLES. 

until  very  light,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
put  on  the  stove  in  sauce  pan,  allowing-  it  to  remain  un- 
til it  just  comes  to  a  boil.  Fill  the  potato  skins  with 
this  mixture,  cover  over  with  grated  cheese  and  put  in 
hot  oven  to  brown.  L.    W.    Washington. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

The  apples  must  be  firm  and  juicy  Cut  them  in  slices 
over  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Melt  a  heaping-  tbsp.  of 
butter  in  the  skillet  and  put  in  the  apples,  only  as  many 
as  the  skillet  can  conveniently  hold;  never  crowding 
them  When  the  apples  have  become  well  browned 
sprinkle  them  thoroughly  with  about  a  c  and  a  half  of 
pulvarized  sug-ar.  When  the  sugar  has  become  hot 
sprinkle  it  with  one-half  c  of  water  to  melt  it.  Leave 
on  the  stove  a  few  minutes  long-er  until  the  sugar  has 
formed  a  thick  clear  syrup.  For  a  family  of  more  than 
four,  two  skillets  must  be  used.     Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Castleman. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Boil  until  tender.  Mash  through  a  colander  and  boil 
again  until  you  can  drain  off  all  the  water.  Then  mix 
with  cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Mrs    Geo.  A.  Castleman. 

MUSHROOMS. 

To  give  mushrooms  a  delicious  flavor,  take  a  small 
onion  in  which  eight  or  ten  whole  cloves  have  been 
stuck,  and  stew  it  in  the  pan  with  the  mushrooms. 

Mrs.    Geo.  A.    Castleman. 


VEGETABLES.  79 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  sweet  potatoes  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick 
and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  a  qt.  of  pota- 
toes, melt  half  a  c.  of  butter  and  add  two  tbsp.  of  sugar 
to  it ;  dip  the  slices  in  this  liquid  and  lay  them  in  a 
large  pan.  Cook  twelve  m.  in  a  very  hot  oven.  They 
should  be  a  rich,  glossy  brown.         Mrs,  H.  S.  Denny. 

MACARONI. 

Twelve  sticks  macaroni,  one  and  one-half  c.  thin 
white  sauce,  one-half  c,  stale  bread  crumbs,  with  one 
tbsp.  butter  and  one  c  grated  cheese. 

Break  the  macaroni  in  two  in.  pieces-  Cook  in  boil- 
ing- salted  water  about  twenty  m.  (or  until  soft.)  Pour 
into  a  colander  and  run  cold  water  through  it.  Place  in 
a  buttered  cooking  dish,  and  add  the  sauce  with  half  the 
cheese  in  it.  Put  the  crumbs  into  the  melted  butter, 
add  the  remaining  cheese  to  them  and  spread  over  the 
top.     Replace  in  oven  until  it  has  become  brown. 

It  will  be  found  a  great  improvement  to  scald  an  onion 
stuffed  with  whole  cloves  in  the  milk  for  the  white  sauce. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

One  doz.  and  a  half  ears  of  corn,  grated,  a  c.  of  cream, 
salt,  pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter  size   of  a  larg-e    egg. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  h.,  or  until  brown  on  top. 
(Emily  Baker).  Mi's.  Hopkins 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Nine  large  or  twelve  small  ears  of  corn,  one  qt.  rich 
milk.  Scrape  the  corn,  add  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper  and 
pieces  of  butter  on  top.     The  pudding  should  be  baked 


80  VEGETABLES. 

one  h-  in  a  slow  oven .     As  the  corn  gets  older  you  will 
have  to  use  jour  judgment  about  how  much  milk  to  add 

" Friendship  Hill" 

SCALLOPED  CORNLET. 

One  can  cornlet,  two-thirds  c.  milk,  two  c.  bread  crumbs, 
two  or  three  tbsp.  butter,  two  and  a  half  tsp.  salt,  one 
fourth  tsp.  pepper. 

Mix  the  cornlet  and  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put. into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Cut  one  tbsp.  but- 
ter in  small  pieces  and  place  it  in  the  dish.  The  remain- 
ing butter  is  to  be  melted  and  the  crumbs  added  to  it  for 
the  top.  Brown  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  or  thirty  m  Cooked 
onion  or  cabbage  which  has  been  chopped  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

BROILED  TOMATOES. 

After  paring  and  slicing  the  tomatoes,  add  seasoning 
of  salt  and  pepper,  dip  the  slices  in  beaten  egg  and 
cracker  meal.  Broil  over  clear  coals  for  about  eight  m. 
Place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  center  of 
each  slice.  Mrs.  H.   S.   Denny. 

ESOALOPED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Put  a  good  sized  cauliflower  into  a  kettle  containing 
two  qts.  of  boiling  water,  and  after  adding  a  tbsp.  of 
salt,  cook  slowly  for  half  an  h.  ;  then  remove  the 
cauliflower  from  the  water  and  drain  ;  place  in  an  escalop- 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  then  pour  over  a 
cream  sauce  and  bake  about  twenty  m. 

To  make  the  sauce  :  Put  two  tbsp.  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  ;  when  melted  add  a  tbsp.   of  flour  ;  stir  until 


VEGETABLES.  81 

the  sauce  is  smooth  and  frothy,  then  gradually  add  a  pt. 
of  cold  milk.     Season  with  salt  and  let  boil  up  once. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

To  one  good  sized  eg-g-  plant  use  one  pt.  of  grated  bread 
crumbs,  an  eg-g-,  two  tbsp.  of  butter,  one  tsp.  of  salt,  a 
quarter  of  a  tsp.  of  pepper,  half  a  tsp.  of  chopped  onion, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  chopped  parsley  ;  boil  the  egg- 
plant  ten  m.,  then  take  from  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it 
has  become  partially  cooled,  cut  in  two  pieces,  cutting 
lengthwise  ;  then  scoop  out  the  inside,  being-  careful  not 
to  break  the  skin  ;  cook  the  butter,  onion  and  parsley  in 
a  frying-  pan  three  m. ;  then  add  the  pulp  of  the  egg 
plant,  (which  has  been  hashed  fine)  and  the  seasoning-, 
and  cook  ten  m.  long-er,  stirring-  frequently ;  then  add  the 
well  beaten  eg-g-  and  remove  from  the  fire  ;  put  the  two 
shells  of  the  eg-g-  plant  in  a  baking-  pan,  fill  with  the 
cooked  mixture,  sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  over  them  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  m.  or  until  well  browned. 
Send  to  the  table  very  hot.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

CELERY  AU  JUS. 

Wash  the  celery  and  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  long-;  cover 
with  boiling-  stock,  season  with  salt  and  boil  thirty  m. 
Put  one  tbsp.  of  butter  into  a  pan  and  stir  until  brown, 
add  to  it  one  tbsp.  of  flour  and  mix  until  smooth.  Drain 
the  celery,  then  add  one-half  pt.  of  the  liquor  in  which 
it  was  boiled  to  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  until  it  boils, 
then  add  seasoning  to  taste.  Put  the  celery  into  a  heated 
dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 


82  VEGETABLES. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS. 

Boil  a  bunch  of  asparag-us  twenty  m.,  cut  off  the  ten- 
der tips  and  lay  them  in  a  deep  pie  plate;  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  well.  Beat  four  eg-g-s,  yolks  and  whites  separate- 
ly to  a  stiff  froth;  add  two  tbsp.  of  milk  or  cream,  a  tbsp. 
of  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  the  aspar- 
ag-us and  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  eg-g-s  are  set. 

Hattie  Keltz. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Sift  a  tsp.  of  flour  into  one-half  a  teacup  of  milk  or 
cream.  Stir  until  perfectly  smooth.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eg-g-s.  Have  on  the  fire  one-half  a  tumblerful  of 
vineg-ar,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  aneg-g\  When 
it  is  just  coming-  to  a  boil,  strain  flour  and  milk  into  it, 
stirring-  hard  a  few  m.  Pour  it  over  cabbag-e,  and  stand 
it  in  a  cold  place.  Mrs.   H.   L.  Johnston. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Cut  the  cabbag-e  and  put  it  into  the  dish  you  send  on 
table.  Put  into  a  saucepan  the  yolks  of  two  eg-g-s,  one- 
fourth  lb.  of  butter,  two  or  three  tbsp.  of  vineg-ar,  ac- 
cording- to  the  streng-th,  (we  never  made  ours  very  sour), 
a  larg-e  pinch  of  salt  and  some  pepper.  If  you  have  a 
great  deal  of  cabbag-e,  add  one  tbsp.  of  rich  cream.  Stir 
this  mixture  all  the  time  it  is  on  the  fire,  and  just  before 
coming-  to  a  boil  throw  it  over  the  cabbag-e  and  mix  it 
thoroug-hly  ;  then  sift  white  pepper  on  the  top  and  set 
it  by.     It  should  be  made  several  h.  before  it  is  used. 

Mrs.   Plitt. 


VEGETABLES.  83 


84  VEGETABLES. 


VEGETABLES.  85 


86  VEGETABLES. 


SALADS,  SALAD  DRESSINGS  AND 
SANDWICHES. 


TOMATO  JELLY. 
Half  a  can  or  two  c.  tomatoes,  three  cloves,  one  bay 
leaf,  one  slice  onion,  one-half  tsp.  thyme,  one  tsp.  salt, 
one  tsp.  sugar,  one  quarter  tsp.  pepper,  one-half  oz.  gel- 
atin soaked  in  one-half  c.  water.  Boil  together  the 
tomatoes,  spices  and  onion  until  the  tomato  is  soft,  then 
add  the  soaked  gelatin  and  stir  until  the  gelatin  is 
dissolved,  then  strain  and  pour  it  into  a  border  or  ring 
shaped  mould  to  set.  Serve  with  the  centre  of  the  jelly 
ring  filled  with  celery  cut  into  pieces  and  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  form  outside  the  ring  a  wreath 
of  lettuce,  or  mould  the  tomato  jelly  in  a  solid  piece  and 
surround  in  with  celery  and  lettuce. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  SWEETBREADS 
Select  the  desired  number  of  round,  firm  tomatoes  ;  re- 
move the  skins,  cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  and 
scoop  out  the  inside  ;  parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  in 
salted  water  for  twenty  m.,  plunge  into  cold  water,  and 
remove  all  skins  and  sinews ;  chop  fine,  add  chopped 
celery,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  fill  the  tomatoes  ;  set  on 
the  ice  to  become  cold.  Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Mrs.   William  A.  Peterson. 


88  SALADS,  ETC. 

SALAD  DRESSING,  WHICH  WILL  KEEP  A  LONGTIME. 

One  pt.  vinegar,  (if  not  too  strong-),  one  pt.  water,  one 
level  tbsp.  mustard,  one  tbsp.  celery  seed,  one  tbsp.  but- 
ter, one  tbsp.  salt,  yolks  ten  eggs,  two  tbsp.  sugar.  Let 
your  vinegar  and  water  come  to  the  boil  and  stir  them 
into  your  eggs  ;  beat  well  and  add  butter,  sugar,  salt, 
mustard  and  celery  seed. 

This  sauce  can  be  put  in  a  patent  fruit  jar  and  is  very 
nice  for  potato  salad.  Add  one-half  a  cucumber  cut  fine 
to  your  potato.  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Painter. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Mix  in  the  proportion  of  one  tbsp.  of  vinegar  to  three 
of  olive  oil  and  one  ssp.  of  both  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
little  chopped  onion  or  chives.  This  dressing  must  be 
beaten  thoroughly  in  a  hot  c.  A  little  tobasco  sauce  will 
sometimes  be  found  an  addition. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Four  tbsp.  oil,  one  tbsp.  vinegar,  two  ssp.  black 
pepper,  two  ssp.  salt,  red  pepper  to  taste  and  a  small 
clove  of  garlic.  Have  your  salad  prepared  and  placed 
in  the  salad  bowl.  Mix  your  dry  ingredients  in  the  salad 
spoon  over  a  small  bowl,  in  which  you  have  placed  a 
piece  of  ice  about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Pour  the 
vinegar  into  the  salad  spoon  and  after  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents are  dissolved,  add  the  oil  gradually.  When 
thoroughly  mixed  pour  over  the  salad. 

L.  W.   Washington. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 
For  one  pt.  of  dressing,  use  three  gills  of  oil,  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs,  one  tsp.   of  dry   mustard,    half   a  tsp.   of 


SALADS,  ETC.  89 

salt,  two  tbsp.  of  lemon  juice,  two  of  vinegar,  one-tenth 
of  a  tsp:  of  cayenne  and  four  tbsp.  of  thick  sweet  cream. 
In  order  to  have  this  a  success  have  all  the  materials 
very  cold.  Put  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  dry  ingredients 
into  a  bowl  and  beat  until  thoroughly  blended,  then  add 
oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  beating-  all  the  time.  Use 
alternately  the  oil  and  lemon  juice  and  vinegar.  When 
all  has  been  used,  add  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

The  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  and  one  raw  egg,  mixed 
thoroughly  together  with  one  and  one-half  tsp.  salt. 
Beat  in  very  slowly  (drop  b}^  drop)  from  one-third  to 
one-half  a  bottle  of  olive  oil.  The  secret  of  thickening 
the  dressing  is  in  mixing  the  eggs  and  salt,  thoroughly 
at  first,  and  in  beating  in  the  oil  gradually.  Season  to 
taste  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  onion,  Tara- 
gon  vinegar  and  cider  vinegar.  The  vinegar  should  be 
mixed  in  alternately  with  the  oil.  In  doing  this  you  will 
prevent  the  dressing  from  becoming  too  thin.        Jane. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

Rub  (beat)  the  yolk  of  a  cold  hard  boiled  egg  through 
a  hair  sieve  into  a  basin,  to  which  add  the  yolks  of  two 
raw  eggs  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  mix  all  together 
with  a  wooden  spoon;  have  a  pt.  of  good  salad  oil  in  a 
bottle;  hold  it  with  the  left  hand  over  the  basin,  drop- 
ping it  in  very  gradually,  and  with  the  right  continue 
stirring  it  round  until  it  becomes  rather  thick,  then 
moisten  it  with  a  little  Taragon  or  common  vinegar 
still  keeping  it  stirred,  then  more  oil,  and  so  on  until 
you  have  used  all  the  oil,  keeping  the  sauce  rather  thick; 


90  SALADS,  ETC. 

then  add  a  tbsp.  of  finely  chopped  gherkins  (small 
pickled  cucumbers),  half  a  tbsp.  of  chopped  capers,  half 
a  tbsp.  of  chopped  shallot  (small  onions  or  garlic)  and 
the  same  of  chopped  parsley,  two  tbsp.  of  French  mus- 
tard, a  little  cayenne  pepper,  (sugar),  and  more  salt,  if 
required;  it  is  then  ready  for  use.  This  sauce  requires 
to  be  rather  highly  seasoned.  Common  vinegar  may  be 
us^d.  Half  this  quantity  for  a  small  family. 
Philadelphia  Club  Receipt. 

From  Mrs.  Tucker  Carroll  and  Mrs.  Neil. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Boil  hard  six  eggs,  chop  fine  and  mix  into  a  paste  with 
thick  and  highly  seasoned  mayonnaise,  spread  between 

slices  of  thin  white  bread  and  butter.  Jane. 

MEAT  SANDWICHES. 

Game,  turkey  or  chicken  chopped  fine  and  made  into  a 
paste  with  highly  seasoned  mayonnaise  is  very  nice  for 
sandwiches.  Jane. 

LEMON   SANDWICHES. 

Take  a  c.  of  butter  and  a  tsp.  of  mustard.  Make  into 
a  paste  by  adding  a  little  hot  water  ;  add  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Rub  together  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
and  two  tbsp.  of  lemon  juice.  Some  persons  prefer  a  tsp. 
of  curry  in  place  or  mustard.  Rub  the  mixture  together 
until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  more  salt,  if 
desired.  Slice  thinly  and  evenly  a  loaf  of  good  wheat- 
bread,  and  another  of  Boston  brown-bread,  each  at  least 
twenty-four  h.  old,  and  spread  the  slices  with  the  prep- 
aration given  above.  Having  spread  the  mixture  evenly 
and  thinly  on   the  bread,  make  the  sandwiches  of   one 


SALADS,  ETC.  91 

slice  of  white  bread  and  one  of  brown.  They  may  all  be 
made  of  white  bread,  if  preferred.  Trim  the  edg-es 
evenly,  and  cut  them  diagonally.  If  the  slices  arelarg-e, 
cut  them  twice  across,  and  pile  the  ang-ular  bits  upon  a 
plate  or  basket.  C.   T. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES- 

Chop  fine  one  bottle  of  Pim-oloes  (olives)  and  mix 
with  some  very  thick  and  highly  seasoned  mayonnaise 
dressing-.  Spread  the  mixture  between  slices  of  thin  white 
bread  and  butter. 


92  SALADS,  ETC. 


SALADS,  ETC.  93 


94  SALADS,  ETC. 


SALADS,  ETC.  95 


96  SALADS,  ETC. 


DESSERTS.  • 


VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

One  qt.  of  cream,  one-half  pound  sugar,  two  tbsp.  of 
vanilla,  or  one  vanilla  bean.  Put  the  sugar,  half  the 
cream  and  the  bean,  split  in  halves,  on  to  boil  in  a  farina 
boiler  ;  stir  constantly  for  ten  m.  Take  from  the  fire, 
take  out  the  bean,  and  with  a  blunt  knife  scrape  out  the 
seeds  and  the  soft  part  from  the  bean  being-  careful  not 
to  waste  one  drop.  Mix  the  seeds  thoroughly  with  the 
cream  and  stand  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the 
remaining  cream  and  freeze.     This  will  serve  six  people. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Burgwin. 

FILLING  FOR  RICH  ICE  CREAM. 
For  One  Quart  Cream. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  one  c.  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one-quarter  c.  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let  it  cook  slowly  for 
five  m.,  making  a  sugar  syrup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  until  light.  Pour  into  them  slowly,  stirring  all  the 
time,  the  sugar  syrup.  Place  them  on  the  fire  and  stir 
all  the  time  until  the  mixture  is  thick  enough  to  float  the 
spoon  and  has  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.     Remove 


98  DESSERTS. 

it  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  cold.     This  mixture  can 
be  used  with  any  kind  of  ice  cream  to  make  it  richer. 

Mrs.  George  A.  Howe. 

CAFE  PARFAIT. 

Into  a  saucepan  put  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  four  tbsp. 
of  powdered  sug-ar,  and  one-third  c.  of  very  strong-  black 
coffee. 

Beat  till  lig-ht ;  then  stir  over  hot  fire  till  mixture  is 
thick  enoug-h  to  mask  spoon.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
beat  till  cold  and  thick.  Cut  into  it  one  pt.  of  thick 
cream  whipped  to  a  froth.  Turn  into  a  mould  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  three  h.  Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Painter. 

MACAROON  ICE  CREAM. 

One  qt.  cream,  one-fourth  c.  finely  rolled  macaroons, 
one  c.  sug-ar,  one  g-ill  sherry,  one  tsp.  vanilla.  Mix  cream 
and  sug-ar  tog-ether,  then  the  sherry  and  vanilla,  and  last 
of  all  the  macaroons.  Stir  well  and  freeze  as  you  would 
ice  cream-  Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 

FROZEN  PEACHES 

One  pt.  sug-ar,  one  of  boiling-  water  and  two  qts.  ripe 
peaches,  pared  and  sliced.  Put  water,  sug-ar  and  half 
doz.  cracked  peach  stones  in  a  pan  and  boil  fifteen  m. 
Put  the  peaches  throug-h  a  sieve  and  strain  hot  syrup 
over  them.     Mix  and  when  cold  freeze. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES. 

One  qt.  strawberries,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  lb. 
sug-ar ;  one  qt.  water.  Add  sug-ar  and  lemon  juice  to 
berries  and  stand  aside  oneh.     Mash  the  berries,  add  the 


DESSERTS.  99 

water,  stir  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved  and  freeze 
slowly.     Red  raspberries  are  very  nice  the  same  way. 

Josephine  Frank. 

ORANGE  WATER  ICE. 

Boil  together  one  qt.  water  and  three-fourths  lb.  of 
sugar  for  ten  or  twelve  m.,  then  take  from  fire  and  let 
it  cool.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  twelve  oranges  and 
three  lemons,  strain,  rub  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar  in  the 
rind  of  an  orange  and  add  to  the  mixture,  pour  in  sugar 
and  water,  and  freeze. 

IMPERIAL  PUDDING, 

One-half  c.  rice,  one  pt.  milk,  one  c.  sugar,  four  tbsp. 
wine,  one-half  tsp.  salt,  two  qts.  and  one  pt.  whipped 
cream,  one-half  box  gelatin  soaked  for  two  h.  in  one™ 
half  c.  cold  water. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  one  qt.  cold 
water,  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  off  all  the  water.  Add 
the  pt.  of  milk  and  put  into  the  double  boiler  and  after 
an  h.  cooking  add  the  gelatin,  sugar,  salt  and  wine. 
Place  in  a  basin  of  ice  water  and  stir  until  cold,  then  add 
whipped  cream,  stirring  well.  Pour  into  moulds  and  set 
away  to  harden. 

The  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges  may  be  substituted 
for  the  wine.  Cook  the  grated  rind  with  the  juice  and 
milk.     Add  the  juice  to  the  cooked  mixture. 

ICED    RICE    PUDDING    WITH    A    COMPOTE 
OF    ORANGES. 

One-half  c.  of  rice,  one  qt.  of  cream,  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
one  pt.  of  milk,  two  c.  of  sugar,  one  tbsp.  of  vanilla. 
Rub  the  rice  well  in  a  clean  towel,  put  it  on  to  boil  in 


100  DESSERTS. 

one  pt.  of  cold  water  ;  boil  a  half  h.  ;  drain,  cover  with 
the  milk  and  boil  a  half  h.  longer.  While  this  is  boiling-, 
whip  the  qt.  of  cream.  After  you  have  whipped  all  you 
can,  add  the  remainder,  and  what  has  drained  from  the 
other,  to  the  rice  and  milk.  Stand  the  whipped  cream 
in  a  cold  place  until  wanted.  Now  press  the  rice  through 
a  wire  sieve,  and  return  it  to  the  farina  boiler  in  which  it 
was  boiled.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  light, 
then  pour  over  the  boiling  rice;  stir  well.  Return  again  to 
the  fire,  and  cook  two  m.  or  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla,  and  turn  out  to  cool  ; 
when  cool,  put  into  the  freezer  and  freeze.  When  frozen 
stir  in  the  whipped  cream,  remove  the  dasher  and  smooth 
down  and  let  stand  for  two  h.,  packed  in  salt  and  ice. 

For  the   Compote 

One  doz.  sweet  oranges,  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon, 
one  lb.  of  sugar,  one  gill  of  water.  Put  the  sugar  and 
water  on  to  boil  ;  boil  ten  m. ;  skim  and  add  the  lemon 
juice.  Pare  and  slice  the  oranges,  and  put  a  few  pieces 
at  a  time  in  the  hot  syrup,  and  lay  them  out  singly  on  a 
flat  dish.  Pour  over  them  the  remaining  syrup,  and 
stand  on  the  ice  to  cool.  Heap  the  oranges  on  top  and 
around  the  base  of  the  pudding,  and  pour  the  syrup  over 
them.     Serve  immediately. 

The  receipt  for  the  compote  we  do  not  use,  but  pre- 
pare the  orange  as  we  would  to  serve  them  alone,  and  use 
the  juice  instead  of  the  syrup.         Miss  E.  K.  Holmes. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  lb.  stoned  raisins,  one  lb.  washed  currants,  one-half 
lb.  citron  cut  in  strips,  one  lb.  suet,  eight  eggs,  one-half 
lb.  grated  (baker's)  bread,  one  pt.  of  new  milk,  one  nut- 


DESSERTS.  101 

meg",  a  wineglass  of  French  brandy,  four  tbsp.  flour; 
beat  the  egg's  very  light,  add  a  lb.  of  nice  brown  sugar, 
and  then  the  other  ingredients  by  spoonful.  When  well 
mixed  and  having  had  the  pudding  bag  or  cloth  well 
washed  in  boiling  water  and  well  floured,  tie  the  pudding 
tight  with  a  strong  string,  allowing  some  space  for  it  to 
swell  in  boiling.  .When  the  pot  is  boiling  up,  put  the 
pudding  in,  dipping  it  in  three  or  four  times  before  leav- 
ing in  the  pot.  This  pudding  is  a  large  one  and  requires 
five  h.  to  cook  properly.  When  dished,  pour  a  rich  sauce 
over  it,  or  bring  it  in  with  brandy  around  it  on  fire. 

Mrs.    Nich o  I  so n . 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  the  crumbs  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread;  rub  it  very 
fine,  add  fourteen  eggs  well  beaten,  one  wineglass  of 
brandy,  one  nutmeg,  one  tsp.  ground  cloves,  one  tsp. 
mace,  two  lb.  suet  chopped  fine.  Mix  them  all  together 
well.  Rub  together  seven  tbsp.  white  sugar  and  one- 
fourth  lb.  melted  butter.  Add  this  with  one  and  a  half 
lb.  currants,  and  one  lb.  raisins  (seeded).  The  fruit 
should  be  well  floured  before  adding.  Add  one  tea  c. 
flour  ;  flour  the  bag  well,  put  pudding  in,  tie  tight  and 
boil  for  three  h.  Mrs.  H.  P.  Allen. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

Six  oz.  suet,  chopped  fine,  one-half  lb.  figs,  chopped 
fine,  three-fourths  lb.  bread  crumbs,  four  oz.  moist  sug'ar 
(brown  is  best),  one  egg,  well  beaten,  a  little  nutmeg*, 
one  c.  of  milk.     Boil  in  a  mould  in  thick  bag   four   h. 

Saucb.- — One  c.  sugar,  two  tbsp.  butter,  one  egg  and 
a  champagne  glass  of  wine.  Beat  yolk  and  white  sepa- 
rately, the  latter  to  a  good  froth-  then  mix  in   a  bowl. 


102  DESSERTS. 

After  boiling-  butter,  sugar  and  wine  tog-ether,  pour  over 
the  eg-g-s  and  return  all  to  the  saucepan  and  thicken  for 
a  moment  over  the  fire.  Miss  J.   McC.    Taylor. 

CUSTARD   SOUFFLE 

Two  tbsp.  butter,  one-fourth  c.  flour,  one  c.  heated 
milk,  four  eg-g-s,  one-fourth  c.  sug-ar.  Mix  butter,  flour 
and  hot  milk  same  as  white  sauce.  Pour  this  slowly 
over  the  well  beaten  yolks  which  have  been  mixed  with 
the  sug-ar.  When  this  preparation  is  cool  cut  in  the 
whites  of  the  eg-g-s  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Turn  into  a  well  buttered  pudding-  dish  and  bake 
in  very  moderate  oven  from  thirty  to  thirty-five  m. 
When  brown  and  well  puffed  serve  at  once  with  Foamy 
Sauce.     Flavor  pudding-  with  vanilla. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

Put  one  larg-e  pt.  of  milk  in  a  farina  boiler.  Separate 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  five  eg-g-s.  Beat  the  yolks  light 
and  stir  them  into  a  scant  pt.  of  cold  milk,  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  partially  sweeten.  Take 
three  large  tbsp.  of  brown  sugar  and  burn  brown  in  a 
pie  pan,  stirring  it  while  it  burns.  Stir  this  into  the 
boiling  milk  and  pour  the  hot  milk  gradually  into  cold 
milk  and  eggs.  Then  place  in  custard  cups  in  a  pan  half 
full  of  water  and  set  in  oven.  Mrs.  fas.  P.   Sfteer. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Five  eggs  to  one  qt.  of  milk,  three  whites  left  out. 
Warm  half  the  milk,  then  add  the  other  half,  with  the 
eggs  well  beaten.  Add  sugar  and  flavoring.  Bake  until 
stiff  in  a  pan  of  water.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 


DESSERTS.  103 

THE  PUTNAM  THANKSGIVING  PUDDING. 

Take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  remove  the  crust  and  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Spread  thinly  and  very  evenly  with  but- 
ter. Have  a  baking-  dish  as  near  the  size  of  two  slices 
of  bread  laid  close  tog-ether  as  you  can  get.  The  less 
room  outside  the  better.  Lay  the  bread  in  the  dish 
(ac?'oss  the  dish)  buttered  side  up  ;  cover  thickly  and 
evenly  with  stoned  raisins  ;  then  another  layer  of  but- 
tered bread  as  before  ;  then  raisins.  Put  the  last  layer 
buttered  side  down.  Pour  over  it  all  the  good  rich  milk 
that  the  dish  will  hold.  Let  it  stand  over  night,  covered 
with  a  plate  or  dish,  and  weighted  down,  so  that  the  pud- 
ding will  look  like  a  "loaf."  In  the  morning  drain  off 
all  the  milk  and  press  the  loaf  to  get  it  dry.  Beat  four 
eggs,  perhaps  a  teacup  of  sugar,  and  a  good  deal  of  nut- 
meg ;  mix  with  the  milk  poured  off,  and  pour  over  the 
pudding  slowly,  taking  time  for  the  loaf  to  absorb  it. 
Bake  about  one  h.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with 
nutmeg*.  The  pudding  can  be  made  with  a  meringue  on 
top  if  desired  but  it  was  never  done  so  in  the  old  days. 

GINGER  PUDDING. 

Two  c.  of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  c.  of  chopped  suet, 
one-quarter  of  a  c.  of  molasses,  one-quarter  of  a  c.  of 
sugar,  one-half  of  a  tsp.  of  soda,  two  tsp.  of  ground 
ginger,  one  c.  of  milk,  one-third  of  a  tsp.  of  salt.  Mix 
well  together,  turn  into  a  greased  mould  and  steam  for 
four  h.  If  in  individual  moulds  three-quarters  of  an  h. 
will  be  sufficient. 

DANISH  PUDDING. 

Two  q.  brown  sugar,  eight  eggs,  one  qt.  milk,  three 
c.  water,  two  tbsp.  vanilla.     Heat  the  milk  and  add  it  to 


104  DESSERTS. 

the  eggs,  .which  have  been  well  beaten,  stirring-  all  the 
time.  Burn  the  sugar  in  the  skillet  and  add  the  three 
c.  (or  a  little  less)  hot  water.  After  the  burnt  sugar 
has  been  added  to  the  milk  and  eggs,  add  the  vanilla  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35  or  40  m.  Place  the 
porcelain  pudding  dish,  in  which  the  pudding  is  to  bake, 
in  a  pan  of  water.  After  it  is  baked  place  the  pudding 
in  the  refrigerator  until  the  next  day.  Turn  out  and 
serve  on  flat  dish.  Surround  pudding  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Castleman. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg^  three-fourths  of  a  c.  of  sugar 
and  one  tbsp.  of  water.  Boil  a  few  m. ,  then  take  from 
the  fire,  cool  and  add  a  c.  and  a  half  of  grated  cocoanut, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  c.  bread  crumbs  and  a  glass  and  a 
half  of  sherry  wine.  East  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
very  light  and  place  on  top  for  meringue.  Bake  a  short 
time  in  a  moderate  oven.  Miss  J.  McC.  Taylor. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  lb.  of  prunes  until  they  are  swollen.  Mash 
them  through  a  colander.  Beat  with  the  prunes  three 
tbsp.  of  pulverized  sugar,  then  mix  in  the  whites  of 
six  eggs,  after  having  been  beaten  very  light.  Pour  the 
mixture  into  bake  dish  and  bake  twenty  m. 

Mrs.  Chase. 

CREAM  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

Two  tbsp.  pearl  tapioca,  one  pt.  milk,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one-third  c.  sugar,  one-eighth  tsp.  salt,  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  enough  hot  water  to 
cover  it,  stirring  until  it  absorbs  some  of  the  water,  then 


DESSERTS.  105 

allow  it  to  stand  until  the  water  is  all  absorbed  ;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  until  the  tapioca  is  soft  and  transparent. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt. 
Pour  the  milk  over  them  and  cook  three  m.  Remove 
from  the  stove  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Place 
in  glass  dish  and  allow  to  cool  before  serving  with  cream. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  short  pie  crust,  roll  it  thin  and  cut  it  into 
squares  large  enough  to  cover  an  apple.  Pare  nice  tart 
apples  of  same  size,  remove  the  core  and  fill  spaces  with 
sugar,  butter  and  a  little  cinnamon,  place  an  apple  in 
center  of  each  square,  fold  over  carefully  to  keep  juices 
in.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  forty  m.,  brush  the  top 
with  egg  and  dust  a  little  sugar  over  and  put  back  in 
oven  a  few  m.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

OATMEAL  PUDDING. 

Soak  one  and  one-half  c.  of  rolled  oats  on  back  of  stove 
for  one-half  h.  in  a  qt.  of  milk.  Three  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  together,  one  and  one-half  c.  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  little  vanilla,  one  c.  of  raisins.  Bake 
slowly  one  h.  Mrs.  Albert  H.  Chi  Ids. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Three  pts.  of  boiled  milk,  two  heaping  tbsp.  of  corn 
meal.  Boil  these  together  for  twenty  m.  Beat  four 
eggs  very  light  and  add  one  c.  of  New  Orleans  molasses. 
One-half  c.  brown  sugar,  two  and  one-half  tsp.  of  cin- 
namon, a  little  nutmeg  and  ground  cloves,  salt,  butter 
the  size  of  walnut.     Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  four  h. 

Mrs.  Albert  H.  Childs. 


106  DESSERTS. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  pt.  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  tsp.  salt,  three  egg's, 
one  pt.  rnilk.  Soak  the  crumbs  in  cold  water  for  one  h. 
Wring  the  bread  dry  in  a  napkin  and  add  the  salt  to  the 
crumbs.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  milk.  Then 
add  the  crumbs.  Mix  all  with  a  fork  Bake  one  h.  in  a 
well  buttered  dish.  If  a  sweet  liquid  sauce  is  not  used, 
two  and  a  half  tbsp.  sugar  must  be  added  to  the  pudding. 
It  is  very  nice  served  with  cream. 

BREAD  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Place  in  a  pudding  dish  a  layer  of  stale  bread  which 
has  been  soaked  in  water  till  soft.  All  crust  must  be 
removed.  Add  four  to  six  lumps  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
nutmeg,  then  a  layer  of  stewed  apples  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  twenty  or  twenty-five  seeded 
raisins  over  the  apples  and  add  another  layer  of  bread, 
apples  and  rarsins,  same  as  above.  After  baking  in  hot 
oven  ten  m. ,  cover  the  top  with  a  meringue  made  of  whites 
of  eggs  and  sugar.  Reduce  the  heat  of  the  oven  and 
cook  till  brown.  L.    W.   Washington. 

FANCY  APPLE  PUDDING- 

Pare  six  apples,  take  out  cores  and  stew  with  sugar 
and  lemon  peel.  Beat  well  four  eggs,  add  one  c.  of  bread 
crumbs,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  lay 
stewed  apples  in  bottom  of  dish  and  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  ;  put  some  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top.  Bake 
in  quick  oven.  Turn  upside  down  on  fiat  dish  ;  before 
serving  sift  powdered  sugar  over  apples.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  M.  H. 


DESSERTS.  107 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  pudding-  dish  with  whole  peeled  peaches  and  pour 
over  them  two  c.  of  water.  Cover  closely  and  bake  until 
the  peaches  are  tender,  then  drain  off  the  juice  from  the 
peaches  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Add  to  the  juice,  when 
cool,  one  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  four  well  beaten  egg's,  a 
small  c.  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  one  tsp.  baking 
powder,  one  c.  sugar,  one  tbsp.  melted  butter  and  a  little 
salt.  Beat  thoroughly  and  pour  over  the  peaches  in  the 
pudding-  dish.  Bake  until  a  rich  brown  and  serve  with 
cream. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Three  qts.  berries,  three  tumblers  flour,  enough  milk 
to  wet  the  flour,  if  the  water  left  from  washing  isn't 
enough.  One  tsp.  salt.  Put  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil 
for  three  h.  (in  water  boiling  when  dropped  in).  Serve 
with  butter  sauce. 

Sauce. — Two  egg-s,  one  c.  sugar,  one  wine-glass  wine. 
Beat  well  and  long.  Mrs.  Chaiincey  F.  Black. 

BLUEBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  qt.  of  berries,  one  qt.  milk,  one  and  one-half  pts. 
stale  bread,  two  eggs,  one  tsp.  salt,  one-fourth  nutmeg, 
(grated),  and  four  tbsp.  sug'ar  ;  soak  the  bread  in  the 
milk  two  h.,  then  break  up  the  bread  with  a  spoon  ;  beat 
the  eggs,  salt,  sugar  and  nutmeg  together,  add  this 
mixture  to  the  bread  and  milk,  then  add  the  berries  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifty  m.         Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

ROLLY-POLY  PUDDING- 

Make  a  biscuit-dough,  roll  it  out  one-fourth  inch 
thick,  spread  it  with  a  little  butter,  sugar  and  any  kind 


108  DESSERTS, 

of  berries,  then  roll  it  like  a  jelly  roll,  and  tie   it,    and 
steam  for  one  or  two  h.     Serve  with  fruit  sauce  or  cream. 

Mrs.  /.  S.  G. 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 
Three  c.  corn  meal,  one  c.  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  one 
c.  molasses,  a  little  salt,  pour  on  boiling-  water  enoug-h 
to  make  a  thick  batter,  beat  well,  now  add  three  well 
beaten  eg-g-s,  one  tsp.  cinnamon,  one-half  tsp.  ginger, 
one-half  c.  stoned  raisins,  (these  can  be  omitted  if 
desired),  two  tsp.  Royal  baking-  powder.      Steam  four  h. 

May  Breniser. 

"OLD  FASHIONED  BOILED  PUDDING." 
"To  make  a  pudding-  lig-ht  as  cake, 
One  qi.  of  cream  you  first  must  take, 
(Or  wanting-  that,  g-ood  milk  will  do, 
By  adding-  butter  thereunto) : 
Four  eg-g-s,  and  then  four  spoons  of  flour, 
And  boil  it  in  a  cloth  an  hour."  Mrs.  PlitL 

APPLE  COMPOTE. 
Golden  g-ate,  Wine  Sap,  or  Pippin  apples  only,  may  be 
used  for  this  recipe.  Core  and  pare  the  apples,  being- 
careful  not  to  break  them.  Boil  the  whole  apples  slowly 
in  the  following-  syrup,  a  few  at  a  time  (as  each  apple 
should  be  entirely  immersed)  until  the  apple  is  per- 
fectly clear.  To  a  qt.  of  water  allow  one  pt.  sug-ar  and 
boil  to  a  syrup  before  putting-  in  the  apples.  It  takes 
thirty  to  forty  m.  to  cook  the  apples  properly.  After  the 
apples  are  cooked  and  cold  fill  the  center  with  marma- 
lade— orang-e  or  strawberry  preferred — place  them  in  a 
glass  dish  and  pour  a  little  of  the  cold  syrup  around 
them.  L.  W.  Washington. 


DESSERTS.  109 

TO  MAKE  JELLY  FROM  FEET. 

Boil  four  calf's  feet  that  have  been  nicely  cleaned  and 
the  hoof's  taken  off.  When  the  feet  are  boiled  to  pieces, 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  colander,  and  when  cold,  take 
all  the  grease  off,  and  put  the  jelly  in  a  skillet,  leaving 
the  dregs,  which  will  be  at  the  bottom.  There  should 
be  from  four  feet,  about  two  qts.  of  jelly.  Pour  into  it 
one  qt.  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of  six  fresh  lemons 
strained  from  the  seeds,  one  lb.  and  a  half  of  powdered 
loaf  sugar,  a  little  pounded  cinnamon,  and  mace,  and  the 
rind  thinly  pared  from  two  of  the  lemons.  Wash  eight 
eggs  very  clean,  whip  up  the  whites  to  a  very  light 
froth,  crush  the  shells  and  put  with  them,  mix  with  the 
jelly  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  occasionally  till  the 
jelly  is  melted,  but  do  not  touch  it  afterwards.  When  it 
has  boiled  until  it  looks  quite  clear  on  one  side,  and  the 
dross  accumulates  on  the  other,  take  off  carefully  the 
thickest  part  of  the  dross,  and  pour  the  jelly  in  the  bag; 
put  back  in  the  bag  what  runs  through  until  it  becomes 
quite  transparent,  then  set  a  pitcher  under  the  bag,  and 
put  a  cover  all  over  to  keep  out  the  dust.  The  jelly 
looks  much  prettier  when  it  is  broken  to  fill  the  glasses. 
The  bag  should  be  made  of  cotton  or  linen,  and  be  sus- 
pended in  a  frame  (jelly  strainer)  made  for  the  purpose. 
The  feet  of  hogs  make  the  palest  colored  jelly  ;  those  of 
sheep  are  a  beautiful  amber  color,  when  prepared.  If 
the  jelly  bag  is  thin,  take  off  less  of  the  dross. 

The  feet,  after  the  stock  is  made,  are   good   fried   and 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mrs.  Randolph. 


110  DESSERTS. 

BOILED  JELLY. 

One  package  gelatin,  one  pt.  cold  water,  let  stand  one- 
half  h.,  then  add  one  pt.  boiling- water  and  stir  until  the 
gelatin  entirely  dissolves.  Add  one  and  one-half  pts.  pale 
sherry  wine,  four  sticks  cinnamon,  six  large  blades  mace, 
three  lemons,  one  doz.  fine  raisins.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  stiff,  mix  it  with  the  jelly 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  very  hot.  Then  simmer, 
without  stirring-,  until  the  eg-g-  looks  brown  and  curdled 
and  the  jelly  is  clear.  Strain  throug-h  flannel  bag-  which 
has  been  scalded.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  packag-e  Keystone  Silver  White  g-elatin,  one-half 
c.  cold  water,  one  pt.  boiling-  water,  one  c.  sugar,  one 
lemon,  one  c.  wine.  Very  nice  jelly  is  made  by  using 
one-half  c.  brandy  and  one-half  c.  sherry.  Soak  g-elatin 
in  cold  water  until  soft ;  add  the  boiling-  water  and  the 
sug-ar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  the 
lemon  juice,  and  when  cooled,  the  wine.  Strain  through 
a  flannel  bag  or  through  cheese  cloth  placed  in  a  wire 
sieve.     Harden  jelly  by  placing  it  near  the  ice. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

One-fourth  pack  Keystone  Silver  White  gelatin,  one- 
half  c.  sugar,  three  tbsp.  brandy,  one  and  one-half  c.  cold 
water,  two  c  strong  hot  coffee.  Use  directions  for  mix- 
ing wine  jelly. 

JELLIED  PRUNES. 

One  pt.  of  prunes,  one  and  one-half  pt.  of  water,  one- 
half  a  packag-e  of  Keystone  Silver  White  gelatin,  one- 
half  pt.  of  wine,  and   one-half  pt.  of  sugar.     Soak    the 


DESSERTS.  Ill 

g-elatin  in  one  g-ill  of  the  water  for  two  hours.  Wash 
the  prunes  well  and  cook  slowly  for  one  h.  in  the  rest  of 
the  water.  Take  out  the  prunes  and  remove  the  stones. 
Return  to  the  water  in  the  stew  pan  and  let  boil  up. 
Add  the  g-elatin  and  take  from  the  fire.  Stir  until  the 
g-elatin  is  dissolved,  then  add  sug-ar  and  wine  and  place 
the  stew  pan  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  stirring-  until  the 
preparation  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  moulds  and 
set  in  cool  place  for  four  or  five  h.  to  harden.  Serve 
with  soft  custard  or  whipped  cream. 

BLANC  MANGE. 
One  oz.  of  Russian  isinglass  to  one  qt.  of  cream,  sweeten 
to  the  taste  (a  little  sweet),  stir  it  well  all  the  time  on 
the  fire,  strain  through  thin  muslin.  When  the  moulds 
are  scalded  and  made  cold,  dip  it  into  them  with  a  spoon. 
It  should  boil  two  or  three  m.  One-half  c.  of  rose  water 
to  one  qt.  of  cream.  Mrs.  Johnston. 

BLANC  MANGE. 
One  pt.  of  cream,  one  pt.  of  new  milk,  one-third  box 
of  g-elatin,  one  tbsp.  of  sug-ar,  one  tsp.  of  vanilla.  Soak 
the  g-elatin  in  the  milk  until  dissolved,  then  add  the 
sug-ar,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  until  thoroughly  heated, 
then  take  it  off  and  strain  through  a  strainer,  when  cool 
add  the  cream  and  vanilla,  stir  it  to  keep  it  from  g-etting- 
lumpy  and  when  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  put  in  a 
mould.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 

CREAM  BLANC  MANGE 
One  qt.  cream  heated  to  boiling-  point.     Soak  one-half 
package  g-elatin  in  cold  watter,  pour  the  hot  cream  over 
it,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  with  bitter  almond. 

Mrs.  Keyser. 


112  DESSERTS. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Four  squares  Baker's  chocolate,  six  tbsp.  granulated 
sugar,  and  a  little  water.  Boil  this  one  and  one-half  h. 
Boil  almost  three  pts.  milk  and  add  the  chocolate  and 
one-half  pack  of  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water.  Cook 
just  five  m.  stirring-  all  the  time  and  then  pour  into 
moulds.  Mrs.  Keyser. 

VELVET   CREAM. 

Thicken  a  pt.  of  milk  with  one-half  a  box  of  gelatin, 
let  it  melt  in  the  heated  milk.  When  the  milk  is  cool 
add  to  it  a  pt.  of  cream  which  has  been  sweetened  and 
flavored  to  taste.  Pour  it  in  to  moulds  and  set  on  ice  to 
stiffen.  Miss  J.  McC.  Taylor 

MRS  SHIPMAN'S  CREAM 

One  pt.  cream  whipped  to  stiff  froth,  one-half  box  gel- 
atin soaked  in  a  little  water,  one  pine-apple  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  simmered  until  soft  with  a  coffee  c.  of  sugar. 
Strain  the  pine-apple  through  a  colander  into  the  gela- 
tin, and,  when  quite  cold,  stir  the  cream  thoroughly  into 
it.  Put  in  a  mould  on  ice.  Peaches  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way.  Mrs.  Moore. 

CHARLOTTE  RTJSSE. 

Dissolve  one-half  a  box  of  Cox's  sparkling  gelatin  in 
one  pt.  milk.  When  it  boils  pour  it  on  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten  ;  add  one-half  lb.  sugar  and  either 
essence  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almond.  Stir  it  occasionally 
till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  one  pt.  very  rich  cream, 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
four  moulds  with  lady  fingers  and  fill  with  the  Charlotte. 


DESSERTS.  113 

If  the  weather  is  mild  put  it  on  ice.  Before  turning-  out 
the  moulds  trim  the  edges  of  the  cake  smooth  that  it  may 
set  well  on  the  plates  or  dishes.  Mrs.  Hugh  Lee. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

One  qt.  cream,  six  egg's,  six  tbsp.  sugar,  two-thirds 
box  gelatin,  one-half  c.  water,  two  wine  glasses  sherry. 
Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  the  water  ;  whip  the  yolks  and 
sugar  ;  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the 
yolks.  Then  add  the  cream  and  last  the  gelatin.  Whip 
until  it  congeals.  Mrs.  Whiting. 

INVALID'S  CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 

To  a  pt.  of  rich  milk  add  one-half  package  of  gelatin 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  one  c.  cold  water,  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tbsp.  sugar  and  one-half 
tsp.  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  to  taste.  Pour  this  over 
lady  ringers  or  sponge  cake,  which  has  been  steeped  in 
sherry  wine  and  placed  in  the  bottom  and  on  the  sides  of 
a  glass  dish.  Set  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  This  is 
very  nice  served  with  a  soft  custard  used  as  a  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

One  qt.  flour,  one-half  c.  pulverized  sugar,  three  tsp. 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  all  together, 
then  rub  in  butter  the  size  of  two  eggs.  Beat  one  egg 
well  in  a  cup  and  add  milk  enough  to  egg  to  moisten. 
Do  not  make  dough  too  soft,  and  when  adding  milk  and 
egg  stir  lightly  with  a  fork.  Roil  thin  and  bake  in  well 
floured  cake  pans.  Mrs.    Wm.  H.  Singer,  Jr. 


114  DESSERTS. 

STRAWBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Cut  large  firm  strawberries  in  two  lengthwise;  dip 
them  in  liquid  gelatin,  and  line  a  plain  mould,  placing 
the  flat  side  against  the  mould;  if  the  mould  is  set  on  ice 
the  gelatin  will  harden  at  once  and  hold  the  berries  in 
place;  fill  the  center  with  charlotte  filling  made  by  whip- 
ping one  pt.  of  cream  to  stiff  froth,  soak  half  oz,  of 
gelatin  in  three  tbsp.  cold  water  for  half  h.,  then  dis- 
solve it  with  two  tbsp.  boiling  water;  add  to  the  whipped 
cream  a  tbsp.  powdered  sugar  and  two  dessert-spoonfuls 
of  any  liquor  or  a  tsp.  of  vanilla;  then  turn  in  slowly  the 
dissolved  gelatin,  beating  all  the  time,  when  it  begins 
to  stiffen  turn  into  the  mould  lined  with  berries. 

M.  I.  H. 

PEACH  SPONGE. 

Six  large,  ripe,  juicy  peaches,  one-half  box  gelatin,  one 
c.  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  put  peaches  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil,  when  cold  add  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  One  can  of  peaches  may  be  used 
in  place  of  ripe  ones.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Peterson. 

RICE  MERANGUE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  c.  rice  in  water,  when  water  boils  away,  add 
one  pt.  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one-half  c.  sugar,  flavoring  to  taste,  mix  well, 
pour  into  pudding  dish.  Spread  over  the  top  a  merangue 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  brown  in  oven. 

STRAWBERRY  MERANGUE. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  seven  tbsp.  powdered  sugar, 
one-half  tsp.  salt,  one-half  c.  strawberry  preserve  ;  beat 
the  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  then  with  a  spoon  gradually  beat 


DESSERTS,  115 

the  sugar  and  salt  into  the  froth  ;  butter  a  dish  and  drop 
spoonfuls  of  the  meringue  upon  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
and  half  spoonfuls  of  the  preserve,  continue  until  both 
are  used.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  m. 
Serve  very  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Denny. 

MERANGUE. 

One  box  of  gelatin,  nine  eggs,  three  pts.  milk,  one 
tumbler  of  wine,  vanilla  to  flavor.  Soak  the  gelatin  in 
the  milk  about  twenty  m. ;  put  it  on  the  fire,  and,  when  it 
boils,  stir  quickly  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  beaten  with  one-half  lb.  sugar ;  stir  until  it 
thickens  ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  whites, 
which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  c.  of 
sugar.  Flavor  well  with  vanilla,  and  add  a  tumbler  of 
wine.  Stir  just  to  mix,  and  pour  as  quickly  as  possible 
into  the  moulds.  If  properly  made  there  will  be  two  or 
three  inches  of  clear  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  each  mould. 
Make  several  h.  before  it  is  wanted.  I  always  make  it 
the  day  before.  Emily  Baker. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Yolks  of  one  doz.  eggs  to  one  full  qt.  of  fresh  milk, 
one  vanilla  bean,  sugar  to  taste.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil 
with  the  vanilla  bean  in  it,  stirring  it  frequently  to  pre- 
vent its  burning.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  pour  the  milk 
boiling  hot  on  them,  stirring  them  well  together  ;  add 
powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  it  quite  sweet.  Let  the 
kettle  in  which  the  milk  was  boiled  be  quite  clean,  and 
put  the  custard  back  into  it.  Put  it  on  the  fire  and  stir 
it  without  cessation  until  it  thickens.  It  must  not  boil, 
only  thicken.     If  left  too  long  it  will  curdle  ;  if  not  long 


116  DESSERTS. 

enough  it  will  be  too  thin.  It  should  be  watched  most 
carefully.  Should  it  curdle  place  the  vessel  in  which  it 
has  been  cooked  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  and  beat  vigor- 
ously with  Dover  egg  beater,  when  the  custard  will 
become  quite  smooth  again.  It  makes  a  very  nice  dish 
to  soak  macaroons  in  wine  and  pour  this  custard  over 
them.  The  whites  of  the  eggs  may  also  be  used  as  a 
merangue.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

FRIED  BANANAS. 

Cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  drop  in  egg  and  then  in  sugar 
and  flour  mixed  ;  fry  in  lard  until  brown  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  H.   S.  Denny. 

BATTER  FOR  FRUIT  FRITTERS. 

One  c.  of  flour,  half  a  c.  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tbsp. 
of  sugar,  one  tbsp.  of  melted  butter,  half  a  tsp.  of  salt 
and  the  yellow  rind  of  one-fourth  of  a  lemon  grated. 

Mrs.  H.   S.  Denny. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Pare  and  core  six  large  tart  apples  ;  cut  in  slices  one- 
third  of  an  inch  thick  and  lay  them  in  a  bowl  over  which 
sprinkle  three  tbsp.  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  grated  nut- 
meg and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Let  them  stand  for 
half  an  h.  or  more  and  then  dip  the  slices  into  the  fruit 
batter  and  drop  into  hot  fat,  and  cook  three  m.  Drain 
and  serve  on  flat  dish,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  slices. 
Peach,  pear,  pineapple  and  banana  fritters  can  be  made 
the  same  way.  Mrs.  H.   S.  Denny. 


DESSERTS.  117 

MINOE    MEAT. 

One  lb.  of  lean  beef,  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  one-half 
lb.  raisins  (the  best  raisins,  seeded  and  cut),  two  lbs. 
currants,  two  lbs.  suet  shredded,  one  lb.  citron,  sliced 
thin,  two  lbs.  good  brown  sugar,  eight  lbs.  Pippin  ap- 
ples, two  lemons  (grated  rinds)  and  the  juice  of  one-half 
of  one  of  them,  two  nutmegs  grated,  one  tsp.  powdered 
mace,  a  pinch  of  powdered  cloves,  one  qt.  or  a  little  more 
wine,  one  pt.  brandy,  rum,  or  whiskey.  This  quantity 
makes  fifteen  pies.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Perine. 

MINCE    MEAT. 

Three  lbs.  boiled  beef,  chopped  fine,  two  lbs.  suet, 
chopped  fine,  three  lbs.  raisins,  three  lbs.  currants,  five 
lbs.  chopped  apples,  one  lb.  citron,  cut  fine,  one  nutmeg-, 
two  tbsp.  ground  cinnamon,  one  tsp.  cloves,  one  tsp.  all- 
spice, one-half  tsp.  mace,  one  tbsp.  salt,  three  lbs.  brown 
sug-ar,  and  two  qts.  rum  or  brandy.     Mrs.  H.  P.  Allen. 

PUMPKIN  PUDDING  OR  PIE. 

To  three  pts.  of  pumpkin  after  it  is  well  stewed  and 
squeezed,  add  one-fourth  lb.  of  butter,  eight  eggs  well 
beaten,  one-half  pt.  of  cream,  the  same  of  milk,  one  wine 
glass  of  brandy  and  wine  mixed,  cinnamon,  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.     Bake  for  three-fourths  of  an  h. 

Miss  Kerfoot. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Receipt  for  two  large  pies.  Three  qts.  of  pared  and 
sliced  apples,  two  c.  of  sugar,  one-third  of  a  nutmeg 
grated,  two  tbsp.  of  flour  and  eight  of  water.  Cover  two 
deep  plates  with  your  paste,  then  divide  the  apples  equal- 


118  DESSERTS. 

ly,  putting-  half  in  each  plate.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  nut- 
meg- and  sprinkle  half  over  each  pie  then  sprinkle  four 
tbsp.  of  water  over  each  pie.  Cover  with  paste  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  fifty  m.  If  one  does  not  care 
for  a  very  deep  pie,  the  same  receipt  can  be  used  making 
the  pies  smaller.  Mrs.  H.  S  Denny. 

LEMON  PIES. 

Yolks  of  five  eg-g-s,  white  of  one  eg-g-,  one  and  one-half 
coffee  c.  sug-ar,  one  g-ood  spoonful  of  butter,  melted,  five 
heaping-  spoonfuls  sifted  flour  mixed  with  sug-ar  and 
eg-g-s.  Juice  and  rind  of  four  lemons.  Sufficient  water 
with  lemon  juice  to  make  one  and  one-half  tea  c. 

Mrs.   Whiting. 

TYLERS. 

Three  eg-g-s,  one-half  c.  melted  butter,  two  c.  sug-ar, 
one  c.  sweet  milk,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Bake  on  nice  pastry  in  pastry  pans.  This  quantity  will 
make  twelve  tartlets.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

TRANSPARENT  PIES. 

Eight  eg-g-s,  one  lb.  granulated  sug-ar,  two-thirds  lb. 
butter,  two  lemons,  rind  and  juice.  Beat  the  yolk  of 
the  eg-g-s  and  sug-ar  tog-ether  until  very  lig-ht.  Melt  the 
butter  and  beat  into  the  eg-g-s  and  sug-ar.  Add  the  lemon 
juice  and  the  grated  rind.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eg-g-s 
and  add  last.  Bake  in  pie  crust  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Whip  the  remaining-  whites  and  add  one  tbsp.  sugar  to 
each  egg-  and  meringue  the  pies. 

Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 


DESSERTS.  119 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 

Four  coffee  c.  confectioners'  sugar,  five  egg's,  one  and 
one-half  c  butter  and  one  nutmeg-.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sug-ar  together,  and  add  the  eg-g-s,  one  at  a  time  ;  add 
the  nutmeg-  and  mix  thoroug-hly.  Place  the  bowl  con- 
taining- this  mixture  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  warm 
throug-h,  stirring-  constantly.  Put  in  pie  pans  lined  with 
pastry  and  bake  in  rather  slow  oven. 

Mrs.    George  A.    Castleman. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

One  c  sug-ar,  three  eg-g-s — beaten  separately,  two  tbsp. 
cold  water,  small  pinch  salt,  one  c.  flour,  and  two  tbsp. 
baking-  powder.  Bake  in  deep  jelly  cake  pans  and  when 
cool  cut  open  and  fill  with  the  following-  mixture.  Mix 
two  eg-g-s,  two  heaping-  tbsp.  sug-ar  and  one  tbsp.  flour 
thoroug-hly  tog-ether  and  stir  them  into  one  pt.  hot  milk. 
Stir-  vig-orously  and  constantly  while  it  cooks  to  keep 
the  custard  quite  smooth,  and  when  cool  flavor  with 
lemon,  almond  or  vanilla.  Mrs.  H.  P.   Allen. 


120  DESSERTS. 


DESSERTS.  121 


122  DESSERTS. 


DESSERTS.  123 


124  DESSERTS. 


SAUCES 


FOR  FISH. 

WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Make  cream  sauce,  and  to  two  c.   sauce   add  one-half 
tbsp.  lemon  juice  and  three  or  four  olives  chopped  fine. 


CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Make  some  highly  seasoned  and  very  stiff  mayonnaise. 
Pare  several  cucumbers,  according-  to  the  quantity  of  sauce 
you  require.  After  the  cucumbers  have  soaked  in  salted 
ice  water  for  several  h.,  slice  them  about  one-fourth  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  small  dice.  Dry  the  chopped 
cucumbers  several  times  very  thoroughly  (between  cloths) 
and  just  before  serving-  mix  with  the  mayonnaise  and  add 
some  capers.  The  mayonnaise  should  be  thick,  or  the 
water  in  the  cucumbers  will  make  the  sauce  too  thin. 

Miss  M.  C.  Speer. 


126  SAUCES. 

FOR  MEATS. 

CHIVES   SAUCE. 

Put  a  c.  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  saucepan  with  two  oz. 
butter  and  stir  until  a  pale  g-olden  brown,  then  pour  in 
one-half  pt.  broth  with  two  tbsp.  of  finely  chopped  chives 
and  season  to  taste.  Stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  till  boil- 
ing- and  keep  very  smooth. 

LEMON  SAUCE  FOR    BOILED  FOWL. 

Peel  a  larg-e  lemon,  cut  in  slices.  Pick  out  all  the  pips 
and  cut  the  slices  into  small  pieces.  Boil  a  fowl's  liver, 
then  chop  and  add  it  to  the  lemon,  pour  one-half  pt.  hot 
melted  butter  over  and  serve  it  in  a  sauce  boat  with  the 
fowl. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Flour  well  two  sliced  onions  and  put  in  skillet  with 
about  dessert  spoonful  of  hot  lard  and  four  tomatos, 
cut  up,  and  let  all  brown  well  without  frying,  then  add 
meat,  chicken,  veal  or  anything-  you  wish  to  cook,  and 
let  all  cook  slowly.  Add  a  little  hot  water  occasionally 
if  the  gravy  g-ets  too  thick.  Season  with  salt,  red  and 
black  pepper,  and  when  finished,  ready  to  serve,  scatter 
over  very  finely  chopped  parsley.  Flour  meat  well  before 
putting-  in  skillet.  This  sauce  is  g-ood  for  anything-. 
Fish  sliced  and  cooked  in  it,  the  slices  put  on  toast  and 
the  gravy  put  over  it,  you  will  find  delicious.  You  can, 
also,  in  cooking-  duck,  add  carrots  and  turnips.  A  great 
improvement.  Mrs.   Win.  H.  Singer,  Jr. 


SAUCES.  127 

PAPILOTTE  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  two  onions,  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with 
one-half  oz.  scraped  fat  of  bacon,  and  stir  over  the  fire 
for  five  m.  ;  then  pour  in  one  pt.  brown  sauce.  When 
boiling*  add  one  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  and  mushrooms,  a 
small  quantity  scraped  g-arlic,  a  lump  of  sug-ar,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  constantly 
and  boil  till  reduced  to  a  creanry  thickness,  then  remove 
from  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Generally  served  with 
cutlets  a  la  maintenon. 


FOR  VEGETABLES. 

CREAM  OR  WHITE  SAUCE.    ' 

Two  tbsp.  butter,  two  tbsp.  flour,  one  tsp.  salt,  one  pt. 
milk  (hot),  one-eighth  tsp.  pepper.  Heat  the  butter  un- 
til it  bubbles;  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  gradually  the 
hot  milk.  If  used  for  vegetables  add  the  pepper.  If  it 
lumps,  cook  until  it  thickens,  then  beat  until  it  is  smooth. 
It  may  be  removed  from  the  fire  and  beaten.  A  thicker 
sauce  than  this  receipt  will  make,  requires  less  milk.  A 
thinner  sauce  requires  more  milk.  A  richer  sauce  re- 
quires cream  or  white  stock.  The  butter  and  flour  must 
be  browned  for  brown  sauce. 

WHITE   SAUCE,    OR    DRAWN    BUTTER,    FOR 
VEGETABLES. 

One  c.  hot  milk,  one  c.  vegetable  stock  (water  in  which 
vegetables  have  been  cooked),  two  tbsp  butter,  one  and 
one-half  tbsp.  flour,  salt  and   pepper.     Melt  the  butter 


128  SAUCES. 

and  add  the  flour  arid  seasoning-.  Then  add  gradually 
the  hot  milk  and  stock,  cook  five  m.  and  pour  over  the 
veg-etable  to  be  served. 

WHITE    SAUCE. 

Enoug-h  for  a  cauliflower  or  one  pair  chickens.  Take 
the  yolks  of  six  eg-g-s,  beat  them  as  ligmt  as  possible. 
Take  about  one-fourth  lb.  or  little  more  butter  and  let  it 
melt  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
melted  butter.  Have  some  one  else  place  cauliflower  or 
chicken  or  sweetbread  in  a  very  hot  dish,  and  while  that 
is  being-  done  pour  the  eg-g-  into  the  butter,  stirring-  all 
the  time.  Give  it  a  quick  stir  after  all  is  in  and  pour  at 
once  on  the  dish  to  be  served.  A  little  lemon  can  be 
squeezed  in  at  the  table,  or  if  the  sauce  curdles,  pour  it 
back  into  the  saucepan,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  into  it  and 
g-ive  it  a  stir.  Mrs.  Berghmans. 


FOR  DESSERT. 

DEVONSHIRE  CREAM. 

Put  fresh  milk  on  the  fire  and  let  it  very  slowly  come 
to  scalding-  point,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  leave  it  on  the 
fire  for  about  half  an  h.  Then  remove  to  a  cold  place 
and  let  it  stand  for  six  h.  or  until  the  cream  has  all  risen. 
It  will  be  thick  and  clotted  and  is  nice  on  fruits,  mush, 
etc.  It  will  keep  for  some  time  and  is  much  better  than 
plain  cream.  M.  I.  H.    . 


SAUCES.  129 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

One-half  c.  of  butter,  one  c.  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Beat  together  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  quickly  a 
wineglass  full  of  sherr}^  ;  add  two  tbsp.  of  boiling-  water  ; 
beat  this  all  thoroughly,  then  add  the  well  beaten  white 
of  the  egg-.    The  secret  of  this  sauce  is  in  the  beating. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Shoenberger. 

CREAMY  SAUCE. 

One  egg,  one  c.  powdered  sugar,  one-half  c.  thick 
cream,  one-fourth  c.  milk,  one-half  tsp.  vanilla.  Beat 
white  of  egg  until  stiff,  add  well  beaten  yolk  and  gradu- 
ally the  sugar,  If  the  cream  is  too  thick  dilute  with  the 
milk  and  beat  until  stiff.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and 
flavor. 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  c.  pulverized  sugar,  one- 
fourth  c.  hot  milk,  one  tsp.  vanilla,  sherry  or  urandy. 
Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  sugar  gradually  and 
continue  to  beat.  Add  hot  milk  gradually  >  then  the 
flavoring  and  serve. 

This  sauce  is  best  if  made  not  lotig-er  than  an  h.  before 


WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One-half  pt.  of  sherry,  one-half  lb.  of  sifted  sugar, 
about  two  oz.  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg.  Stir  it  over  the 
fire,  until  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved.  Let  it  simmer  a  few 
m.,  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  a  boil. 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Carroll 


130  SAUCES. 

SAUCE  FOR  THE  PLUM  PUDDING  OR  ANY  OTHER 
BOILED  OR  BAKED  PUDDING. 

One-half  lb.  butter,  eight  tbsp.  of  nice  brown  sugar, 
one  nutmeg",  the  white  of  an  egg,  a  wineglass  of  wine. 
The  butter  must  be  creamed  and  the  sugar  beaten  with 
it ;  then  the  egg,  the  wine  poured  in  gently  and  stirred 
until  it  is  cold.  It  is  best  to  mix  it  in  a  common  bowl 
on  the  hearth  stirring-  it  all  the  time — it  must  not  boil. 
It  is  soon  made  and  ought  to  look  as  thick  as  salad  d?xss- 
ing.  Mrs.  Nicholson. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

One  c.  butter  and  one  c.  pulverized  sug-ar  beaten  to  a 
lig-ht  thick  cream.  To  this  add  gradually  a  wineglass 
of  boiling-  water,  a  large  wineglass  of  the  best  brandy, 
a  small  nutmeg,  grated,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
a  large  lemon  or  orange.  It  is  well  to  mix  this  sauce  in 
an  earthenware  bowl  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-eighth  lb.  butter,  four  tbsp. 
brown  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  three  wineglasses  of  wine — 
more  if  you  like  it  very  strong.  Mix  all  together  ;  put 
the  vessel  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  boil  quite  thick, 
stirring  constantl}- .  Mrs.  H.  P.  Allen. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Three-fourths  c.  sugar,  one-half  c.  butter,  one  egg, 
juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  one  tsp.  nutmeg, 
and  one-half  c.  boiling  water.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  beat  in  the  egg,  whipped  very  light ;  add 
lemon  and  nutmeg.     Beat  hard,   then   add   the  water  ; 


SAUCES.  131 

put  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the 
teakettle,  which  must  boil  until  the  sauce  is  very  hot, 
but  not  boiling-.     Stir  constantly. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

One  and  one-half  c.  pulverized  sugar,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg-,  one-half  cake  (or  one-fourth  lb.)  Baker's  choco- 
late, one  c  cream,  one-fourth  c  sherry,  and  one  tsp. 
vanilla.  Thoroughly  mix  the  butter,  sugar  and  grated 
chocolate ;  add  the  cream  and  boil  for  six  or  seven  m.  Stir 
in  the  flavoring,  and  after  it  has  cooked  a  few  seconds 
longer,  it  is  ready  to  serve.  This  sauce  is  intended  for 
vanilla  ice  cream,  and  should  be  served  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Thomas  M.  Jones,  Jr. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

One-half  c.  of  butter,  well  beaten,  stir  in  slowly  one  c. 
of  fine  sugar,  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Flavor  with  one 
tbsp.  sherry  or  brandy.  Pile  on  a  plate  and  grate  over 
it  a  little  nutmeg.     Keep  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 


132  SAUCES. 


SAUCES.  133 


134  SAUCES. 


SAUCES.  135 


136  SAUCES. 


CAKE 


SUGGESTIONS   ON   CAKE    BAKING. 

Always  use  lard  to  grease  jour  cake  pans  as  the  salt 
in  butter  causes  the  cake  to  stick  to  the  pans.  Whites  of 
egg's  will  froth  quicker  if  you  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Al- 
ways cream  the  butter  and  sug-ar  first,  then  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eg-g-s,  then  milk  and  last  the  flour  and  whites  of 
eg-g-s.  To  one  qt.  of  flour  use  two  and  one-half  tsp.  of 
Royal  baking-  powder,  one  tsp.  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Cake  should  always  be  beaten,  not  stirred.  If  a 
cake  is  too  solid  put  in  a  few  tsp.  of  milk  and  if  too  soft 
add  a  tbsp.  or  more  of  flour.  Keep  the  oven  closed  at 
least  ten  m.  after  putting-  in  your  cake.  Cover  the  bot- 
toms of  your  cake  pans  with  plain  white  or  manilla 
paper.  Never  try  to  ice  a  cake  while  hot.  A  bowl  or 
pan  containing-  water  set  in  an  oven  when  baking-  will 
prevent  pies  or  cakes  from  scorching-. 

A  VERY  GOOD  LUNCH  CAKE. 

One-half  lb.  butter,  four  c  sug-ar,  eigmt  eg-g-s,  six  c. 
flour,  three  tsp.  soda,  four  tsp.  cream  of  tartar,  two  c.  of 
sweet  milk.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sug-ar  (beat  the 
eg-g-s  separately),  add  the  yolks  to  the  butter,  add  the 
milk  with  the   soda  in  it,  then  the  flour  with  the   cream 


138  CAKE. 

of  tartar  in  it  alternately  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  about  twenty  m.  Do  not  put  much  in  the  flat  pans, 
one  and  one-half  inch  enough.  Flavor  with  nutmeg-,  or 
nutmeg-  and  brandy,  or  rose  water,  or  the  rind  of  lemon, 
grated  fine.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

LADY  CAKE. 

One  c  butter,  one  c.  sug-ar,  whites  of  eight  eg-g-s,  one 
c  sweet  cream,  three  c  flour,  three  tsp.  yeast  powder, 
sifted  in  the  dry  flour,  and  one  dessert  spoonful  almond 
extract  Cream  butter  and  sug-ar  tog-ether  ;  add  cream, 
then  the  flour,  and  last  thing-  the  flavoring-  and  the 
whites  of  the  eg-g-s  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  in  two  bread  pans  If  desired  this  cake  may  be  iced 
with  plain  boiled  icing-  flavored  with  almond  extract. 

"  Cloud  Capped." 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
Take  any  even  number  of  eg-g-s  and  weig-h  the  sug-ar 
with  them.  Take  one-half  the  eg-g-s— using-  the  larg-est 
ones — and  weig-h  the  flour  with  them.  Beat  the  yolks 
and  sug-ar  tog-ether  thoroughly.  Sift  the  flour  in  gradu- 
ally, and  add  lemon  juice  and  grated  lemon  rind  from 
time  to  time.  Last  cut  in  the  whites  of  the  eg-g-s  beaten 
very  lig-ht.     Bake  in  a  moderate  and  very  even  oven. 

"  Cloud  Capped:'1 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
Ten  eg-g-s,  one  lb.  sugar,  one-half  lb.  sifted  flour,  one 
lemon.  Beat  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together.  Grate 
in  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Add  the  flour  last  and  do  not  beat  after 
the  flour  is  in.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 


CAKE.  139 

ANGEL  FOOD. 

Whites  of  twenty-two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  two 
tumblers  of  flour,  sifted  five  times,  three  tumblers  of  fine 
granulated  sugar,  sifted  four  times,  four  tsp.  of  vanilla, 
two  tsp.  cream  tartar.  Beat  sug-ar  into  eggs,  measure 
flour  again  after  last  sifting-  to  make  sure,  mix  in  the 
cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  all  again  into  eg-g-s,  stirring-  with 
utmost  g-entleness;  add  vanilla  and  bake  immediately  in 
a  pan  which  has  never  been  greased.  Put  wet  papers  in 
the  bottom  and  sides.  Bake  forty  m.  in  ^moderate  oven. 
When  done,  turn  the  pan  upside  down  on  a  sifter  and 
leave  until  perfectly  cold.  Mrs.  R.  S.  A/bert, 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

One  c.  white  sug-ar,  one  c.  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  c  flour,  one  tbsp.  of  butter,  three  tsp.  of  Royal 
baking-  powder,  one  eg-g-,  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Murdock. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

Two  c.  white  sug-ar,  three-fourths  c.  of  butter,  one  c.  of 
milk,  one  c.  of  corn  starch,  two  c.  of  sifted  flour,  the 
whites  of  seven  eg-g-s,  a  tbsp.  of  Royal  baking-  powder. 
Let  the  oven  be  hot,  but  not  too  hot,  or  it  will  rise  before 
baking-.  Miss  Mary  K.  Snyder. 

CUP  CAKE. 

Six  eg-g-s,  six  c.  of  flour,  one  lb.  brown  sug-ar,  three  c.  of 
melted  butter,  one  c.  of  cream,  one  and  one-half  c  of 
molasses,  two  nutmegs,  one  tsp.  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
little  cream.  First  beat  the  eggs,  adding  the  sugar  by 
spoonsful;  then  put  in  the  cream,  then  the  butter  by  small 


140  CAKE. 

quantities,  then  molasses  and  nutmeg-;  mix  in  each  in- 
gredient well;  stir  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  soda.  Bake 
immediately.     This  is  a  delicious  cake. 

M?s.  Joseph    White. 

GEN.  LEE  CAKE. 

Ten  eggs,  one  lb.  pulverized  sug-ar,  the  rinds  of  one 
or  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one,  one-half  lb.  flour. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eg-g-s  separately  very 
lig-ht.  To  the  yolks  add  the  sug-ar,  the  rinds,  the  juice 
of  the  lemons,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  the  flour, 
stirring-  each  ingredient  slowly  as  added.  Bake  in  jelly 
pans  in  a  quick  oven,  first  greasing-  the  pans  with  butter. 
When  turned  out  to  cool  put  the  icing-  between,  and  on 
top  of  the  layers.  Mrs.  H.  L  Johnston. 

INDIAN  MEAL  CAKE. 

One  lb.  sug-ar,  one  lb.  corn  meal  (take  out  one  handful 
of  meal  and  put  in  its  place  one  handful  of  flour),  four 
eg-g-s;  one-half  lb.  butter,  one  nutmeg-,  cinnamon  to  taste, 
a  little  rose  water.  Miss  Loulie  MacgllL 

PISTACHIO  CAKE. 

Sift  one  c.  of  flour  three  times  before  measuring-  and 
twice  afterwards.  Pour  four  tbsp  of  boiling-  water  over 
one  c.  of  sug-ar,  set  over  the  fire  until  dissolved,  then 
cool  ;  to  the  prepared  flour  add  one  and  one-half  tsp.  of 
salt.  Blanch  two  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts,  pound  to  a 
paste,  then  press  throug-h  a  sieve.  Mix  all  these  ingre- 
dients tog-ether,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eg-g-s 
and  ten  drops  of  vanilla  and  beat  steadily  for  ten  m. 
Turn  into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  half  an  h.  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 


CAKE.  141 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Two  lbs.  raisins  stoned,  one  lb.  citron,  two  lbs.  cur- 
rants, twelve  eg-g-s,  one  lb.  butter,  one  lb.  sug-ar,  one  lb. 
heavy  flour,  wineg-lass  and  a  half  of  brandy,  two  nut- 
meg's, three  tsp.  of  cinnamon,  one  tsp.  of  cloves.  Put 
the  fruit  into  the  flour  ;  cream  the  butter  and  sug-ar,  and 
beat  the  yolks  of  the  egg's  very  lig-ht  and  with  the  hand  ; 
beat  and  cream  them  all  tog-ether  ;  then  add  brandy 
and  spices,  putting-  the  spices  in  the  brandy,  then  the 
whites,  well  beaten,  after  which  directly  add  fruit  and 
flour.  Bake  two  or  three  h.,  putting-  paper  in  the  pan 
under  the  cake,  and,  when  it  commences  to  brown,  put 
white  paper  over  the  cake, 

•  Mrs.  Dunbafs  Receipt  from  Letitia  Davis. 

To  Make  Black  Cake. 

Add  a  c.  of  molasses  to  the  brandy  and  spices,  and 
make  as  above.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  lb.  butter,  one  lb.  sug-ar,  twelve  eg-g-s,  one  lb. 
flour,  three  lbs.  raisins,  three  lbs.  currants,  one  lb.  citron, 
one  c.  molasses,  one  tbsp.  ground  cloves,  one  tbsp.  cin- 
namon, one  tbsp.  mace  or  nutmeg,  one  wineg-lass  full 
brandy,  one  wineg-lass  full  sherry.  Use  one-third  of  the 
flour  to  roll  the  fruit  in.  Cream  the  butter  as  lig-htly  as 
possible  ;  add  the  sug-ar  and  beat  well  tog-ether,  then  add 
the  well  beaten  yolks  and  beat  hard  ag-ain.  Now  add  the 
molasses,  then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eg-g-s,  then 
the  spices,  fruit,  flour  and  brandy.  Be  very  careful  to 
rub  the  fruit  well  with  the  flour  or  it  will  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderate  but  steady  oven 
three  or  four  h.  Mrs.  Chauncey  F.  Black  . 


142  CAKE. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  lb.  butter,  one  lb.  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  one  lb.  flour, 
dried  and  sifted,  one  tbsp.  of  the  following-  spices  mixed: 
cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg-  and  mace.  A  smaller  propor- 
tion of  the  mace  than  of  the  others.  Two  wineglasses  of 
rose  water,  two  wineglasses  of  brandy,  three  lbs.  raisins 
well  floured,  three-fourths  lb.  currants  well  washed,  dried 
and  floured,  one-fourth  lb.  citron  and  one-half  lb. 
blanched  almonds  Beat  eggs  separately.  Cream,  but- 
ter and  sugar  together  and  add  yolks  of  eggs.  Then  add 
alternately  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs,  then  the  rose 
water,  brandy  and  spices,  and  the  currants  and  raisins. 
Line  the  cake  pan  with  well  greased  paper  and  put  in 
alternate  layers  of  batter  and  citron  and  almonds.  Bake 
for  four  h.  in  a  steady  oven.     Miss  Jennie  McC  Taylor. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Thirty-five  eggs,  three  lbs.  flour,  three  lbs.  sugar,  two 
lbs.  butter,  ten  lbs.  raisins,  six  lbs.  currants,  five  lbs. 
citron,  six  tbsp.  of  cinnamon,  six  tbsp.  of  mace,  four  tbsp. 
of  cloves,  three  wineglasses  wine,  three  wineglasses 
brandy,  one  lemon,  one  orange,  one  tsp.  soda.  Brown 
and  sift  part  of  the  flour.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  lb.  of  sugar,  one  lb.  of  butter,  three  lbs.  of  currants, 
three  lbs.  of  raisins,  one  lb.  of  citron,  ten  eggs,  one  lb. 
of  flour,  one  wineglass  of  brandy,  one  tumbler  of  molas- 
ses, nutmeg,  cinnamon,  mace. 

Mrs.  Byron  H.  Painter. 


CAKE.  143 

MOCHA  CAKES,  No.    1. 

Cream  one  c.  of  butter  and  beat  into  it  gradually  one 
c.  of  sugar.  When  very  light  and  creamy  add  alternately 
five  eggs  well  beaten  and  two  c.  sifted  flour.  Stir  in  two 
tbsp.  of  sherry  and  two  tbsp.  of  brandy,  then  beat  hard 
for  at  least  ten  m.  Butter  straight-sided  moulds  three 
inches  in  diameter,  half  fill  with  the  batter  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven;  or  bake  in  a  sheet  three  inches  thick 
and  stamp  out  with  a  three-inch  cutter.  When  cold  split 
the  cake  in  half-inch  layers,  spread  with  the  filling  and 
put  three  layers  together.  Put  a  little  of  the  filling  on 
the  sides  and  roll  in  desiccated  cocoanut.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  filling  in  a  pastry  bag  with  a  small  rose 
tube  and  press  out  on  the  top  of  the  cake. 

Filling-  for  Mocha  Cakes 

Wash  one-half  of  a  c.  of  butter  and  cream  gradually 
with  one  c.  of  powdered  sugar.  When  very  creamy  add 
one  c  of  cream  filling  made  by  scalding  one  c.  of  milk 
and  adding  to  it  one  egg,  one-third  of  a  c.  of  sugar,  one 
scant  fourth  of  a  c.  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt  beaten 
together  ;  cook  until  thick  and  flavor  with  strong  black 
coffee,  then  set  away  until  cold.  Beat  all  together  well 
and  keep  in  a  cold  place  until  used. 

MOCHA  CAKES  No.  2. 

Four  eggs,  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar,  one-half 
of  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  flour,  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar 
together  until  very  light  and  creamy,  add  the  rind  of 
the  lemon  and  one-half  of  the  flour.  Beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  half  of  them  to  the  mixture,  then  the 
remainder  of  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  remainder  of  the 


144  CAKE. 

whites.  Pour  into  a  greased  cake  pan,  making-  the 
batter  about  one-half  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  and  when  cold  cut  in  three-inch  circles. 
From  one-half  of  these  circles  cut  the  center,  leaving- 
rings  which  should  be  fastened  to  the  uncut  circles  with 
a  little  white  of  eg-g-.  In  the.  c.  thus  formed  put  the 
following-  cream  filling- : 

One  pt.  of  thick  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  one- 
third  of  a  c.  of  powdered  sugar,  sufficient  very  strong- 
black  coffee  to  flavor. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

One  even  c  butter,  two  even  c.  sug-ar,  three  even  c.  of 
flour,  whites  eig-ht  eg-g-s,  two  even  tsp.  baking-  powder, 
one  tsp.  vanilla,  one  c.  milk.  Stir  sug-ar  and  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  milk  slowly,  then  flour  in  which  baking-  pow- 
der has  been  mixed,  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the 
eg-g-s,  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  layer  tins,  with  well  greased 
paper  lining-  each  one. 

For  the  Caramel  Icing. 

Two  c.  brown  sug-ar,  one  c.  cream,  three  tbsp.  butter, 
one  tsp.  vanilla.  Boil  all  the  ingredients,  except  the 
vanilla,  until  it  will  hold  tog-ether  in  cold  water.  Then 
add  the  vanilla.  If  it  should  curdle,  strain  and  boil 
again.     Spread  between  and  on  tops  of  layers. 

Mrs,  J  ere  S.  Black. 

ORANGE   CAKE. 

Three  egig-s  beaten  separately,  one  coffee  c  sug-ar,  one 
coffee  c.  flour  (heaping-),  four  tbsp.  cold  water,  two  level 
tsp.  yeast  powder,  season  with  orang-e.  Cook  in  layers  in 
quick  oven. 


CAKK.  145 

Filling-. 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  juice  of  two  oranges,  one 
coffee  c.  sugar,  one  coffee  c.  boiling-  water,  three  tbsp. 
corn  starch.  Put  on  in  sauce  pari  and  let  thicken  to  a 
jelly.  Spread  this  between  the  layers  of  the  cake  and 
sprinkle  top  of  cake  with  pulverized  sugar.  This  cake 
is  better  if  it  is  made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten. 

Miss  Bena  L.  Coleman. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  coffee  c.  sugar,  one 
coffee  c.  flour,  heaping,  one  c.  milk,  three  tbsp.  melted 
butter,  two  level  tsp.  yeast  powder.  Season  with  vanilla. 
Cook  in  layers  in  quick  oven. 

Filling-. 

Three  squares  of  chocolate,  one  large  tbsp.  of  butter, 
one  c.  sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  c.  hot  water.  Season 
with  vanilla.  Put  chocolate  and  butter  on  to  melt  them. 
Put  in  the  sugar,  mix  well,  break  egg  into  this  mixture 
and  add  hot  water  slowly  so  as  not  to  cook  the  egg. 
Cook  about  ten  or  fifteen  in.  and  then  add  the  vanilla. 

Miss  Bena  L.  Coleman. 

PLA.IN     CAKE 

One  c.  butter,  two  c.  sugar,  three  c.  flour,  four  eggs; 
dissolve  one  tsp.  soda  in  a  c.  milk  and  sift  two  tsp.  cream 
of  tartar  through  the  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  bitter 
almond. 

PLAIN    CAKE. 
Four  eggs  beaten  very  light  separately,  two  c.    even 
full  granulated  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolks,    two-thirds 
c.  melted  butter,  added  next;  three  even  c.   sifted  flour, 


146  CAKE. 

three  even  tsp.  baking*  powder  sifted  with  the  flour,  two- 
thirds  c.  milk  added  by  degrees  with  the  flour  to  the 
eggs  and  sugar.  Flavor  with  the  rind  and  juice  of  a 
large  lemon.  Mrs.  Thomas  H.  Dickson. 

PLAIN  CAKE. 

Four  eg-g-s,  two  even  c.  sifted  flour,  one  full  tsp.  baking- 
powder,  sifted  with  the  flour,  one  c.  sweet  cream,  one 
full  tea  c.  granulated  sug-ar,  one  lemon  rind  grated  and 
one-half  the  juice.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eg-g-s  and  sug-ar 
very  lig-ht ;  add  the  cream,  lemon  and  the  flour  by 
degrees.     Last  the  whites  beaten  very  lig-ht. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Was  king  ton. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Make  any  plain  cake,  bake  in  layers  and  put  together 
with  the  following-  filling-  : 

One-half  lb.  butter,  one-half  lb.  sugar,  six  eg-g-s,  six 
lemons.     Cook  until  stiff  as  jelly.  Miss   Commack. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Boil  one  c.  of  granulated  sug-ar  with  four  tbsp.  water 
until  it  drops  from  the  spoon  in  a  thread  ;  have  ready  the 
beaten  white  of  one  eg-g-,  and  pour  the  syrup  slowly  into 
it  beating-  all  the  time  ;  flavor  and  spread  on  cake  while 
warm.  Anna  Mai'ker. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  ICING. 

One  c.  maple  sug-ar,  one  and  a  half  c.  brown  sugar,  one 
half  c.  butter,  three-fourths  c.  milk.  Boil  together  until 
it  shreds  off  spoon,  then  add  one  heaping  c.  of  pecan 
nuts,  chopped,  and  vanilla  to  flavor. 

Miss  Sallie  Black,  Greensburg. 


CAKE.  147 

MARSHMALLOW    FILLING. 

Soak  two  oz.  of  pure  gum-arabic  in  half  a  c.  of  warm 
water  for  half  an  h.  then  add  one-half  c.  of  boiling-  water 
and  put  it  into  a  double  boiler  ;  add  a  half  lb.  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  stir  over  the  fire  for  twenty  m. ;  then  add  a 
tbsp.  of  soaked  gelatin.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  the  hot  mixture  over  them  slowly, 
then  beat  for  fifteen  m.  or  until  perfectly  cool.  Your 
cake  must  be  cold  before  the  filling  is  put  between  the 
layers. 

PLAIN  ICING. 

Place  the  white  of  an  egg  on  a  plate,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  orauge  or  any  flavoring  and  a  few  drops  of 
water.  Stir  in  powdered  sugar  until  it  is  thick  enough 
to  spread.  While  the  cake  is  yet  warm  pile  the  icing  in 
the  center  and  with  a  wet  knife  smooth  it  over  the  top 
and  sides.  It  will  settle  into  a  smooth  glossy  surface. 
One  egg  will  take  about  a  c.  of  sugar  and  make  enough 
for  one  cake.  M.  I.  H. 

INSTANTANEOUS  FROSTING. 

To  the  white  of  an  unbeaten  egg  add  a  c.  and  a  quar- 
ter of  pulverized  sugar  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  three 
drops  of  rose  water,  ten  of  vanilla  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  It  will  at  once  become  very  white  and  harden  in 
five  or  six  m. 

ORANGE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Carefully  mix  two  tbsp.  of  flour  in  not  more  than  two 
of  cold  milk.  Pour  over  this  half  a  pt.  of  milk  that  has 
just  reached  the  boiling  point.  Stir  constantly  over  the 
fire  until  it  is  thick  and  perfectly  smooth  ;  add  the  yolks 


148  CAKE. 

of  two  eggs  and  four  tbsp,  sugar.  Take  from  the  fire  ; 
add  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  three  tbsp.  of 
orange  juice.  It  should  stand  at  least  one  h.  in  a  cool 
place  before  putting  between  the  layers. 

Emma  Belle   Writt. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Grate  one  cake  German  (or  Maillard's)  sweet  choco- 
late. Add  one  lb.  brown  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  one-half  c  milk,  and  boil  all  together  gently,  stir- 
ring to  prevent  burning.  When  the  preparation  has 
cooked  until  it  is  thick  enough,  flavor  with  vanilla,  cool 
and  spread  between  layers  of  the  cake.  If  it  should  be- 
come too  thick  add  two  tbsp.  milk  and  heat  again  to 
thoroughly  mix. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

Two  c.  New  Orleans  molasses,  two-thirds  c.  butter,  one 
even  spoonful  soda,  one  egg,  three  even  c.  sifted  flour, 
one  c.  buttermilk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  molasses  and 
butter  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  When  cool  add  a  heaping 
tsp.  brown  ginger  and  the  soda,  then  the  other  in- 
gredients.    Bake  twenty  m.  in  muffin  pans. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Three  c.  sifted  flour  (six  c.  sifted  flour),  three  eggs 
(six  eggs),  one  c.  of  butter  (one-half  c.  butter),  one  c. 
brown  sugar  (two  c.  brown  sugar),  one  c.  sugar  house 
molasses  (rather  more  than  a  pt.  of  molasses),  one  c. 
milk  with  tsp.  soda  in  it,  three  tbsp.  ginger  (one-half  c. 
ginger),    one  spoonful  ground  allspice.     Mrs.  hee  says 


CAKE.  149 

one  c.  sour  cream  instead  of  milk,  with  tbsp.  of  saleratus 
added  after  the  other  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed. 

Mrs.  Price 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Two  lbs.  flour,  one  lb.  butter,  one  lb.  brown  sug-ar,  two 

lbs.  raisins  stoned,  ten  eggs,  one   pt.    molasses,  one  c. 

ginger,  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  one  tsp.  soda  dissolved 

in  a  c.  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk.     Bake  in  bread  pans. 

"  Cloud  Capped." 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
One  and  one-half  lb.  of  flour,  one  lb.  of  butter,  one  lb. 
nice  brown  sug-ar,  one  pt.  molasses,  eight  eggs — beat  sep- 
arately— one  c.  of  ground  g-ing-er,  one  tsp.  of  pearl  ash 
dissolved  in  a  tea  c.  of  sour  milk,  one  tsp.  of  allspice,  one 
tsp.  of  mace,  one  tsp.  of  cinnamon,  stoned  plums  and 
grated  lemon  peel  (if  you  pleased  is  an  improvement. 

Miss  Sophia   Campbell. 

COOKIES. 

Two  c.  sug-ar,  one  c.  butter,  three  eg-g-s,  beaten  sepa- 
rately, one-half  a  nutmeg*,  grated,  one-half  c.  sour  milk 
or  cream,  one-half  tsp.  soda,  dissolved  in  cream,  four  c. 
flour,  well  sifted.  Roll  thin;  sprinkle  with  granulated 
sug-ar  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Dalzell. 

JUMBLES. 

One  lb.  flour,  one  lb.  white  sug-ar,  one  lb.  butter,  four 
eg-g-s,  one  nutmeg-.  Mix  these  ingredients  well  together  ; 
use  extra  flour  for  moulding,  and  use  a  spoon  so  as  to 
handle  them  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 


150  CAKE. 

SUGAR  CAKES— "Best  for  Children." 

One  and  one-half  lb.  flour,  one  lb.  white  sugar,  one- 
half  lb.  butter,  four  eggs,  one  tea  c.  of  sour  cream,  one 
tsp.  of  soda,  one  wineglass  peach  water.  Cream  the 
butter ;  rub  in  the  flour  very  lightly.  Use  granulated 
sugar  to  roll  them  in  instead  of  flour.  They  are  better 
when  made  a  few  hours  before  baking- ;  in  winter,  can  be 
made  the  evening-  before.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

SUGAR  CAKES. 

Five  eggs,  one  lb.  sugar,  one-half  lb.  butter,  as  little 
flour  as  possible  to  mix  pretty  stiff,  one  wineglass  of 
rose  water  (three  tbsp.).  Miss   Mary  Johnston. 

TAYLOR  CAKES. 

One  large  c.  butter,  one  c.  brown  sugar,  three  eggs, 
one  pt.  molasses,  one-half  pt.  water,  one  tbsp.  ginger, 
one  tbsp.  soda,  two  lbs.  flour.     Drop  on  greased  pans. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ferguson. 

SAND  TARTS. 

One  lb.  brown  sugar,  one-half  lb.  butter,  three  eggs, 
one-half  c.  sour  milk,  one  tsp.  of  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk  and  added  the  last  thing.  Work  butter  and  sugar 
together  ;  add  lightly  beaten  yolks  of  the  egg,  then  one 
and  one-quarter  lb.  of  flour,  good  weight,  and  sift  after 
weighing.  Flour  your  board  well  and  roll  very  thin.  Cut 
in  small  shapes,  any  you  may  desire.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
very  light  and  wash  over  the  cakes.  Mix  white  sugar  and 
cinnamon  together  and  put  on.    Bake  in  an  even  oven. 

Mrs.   Wm.  H.  Singer,  Jr. 


CAKE.  151 

DROP    CAKES. 

These  cakes  must  be  served  fresh  from  the  oven, 
sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  One  c.  pulverized  sugar, 
one-half  c  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  c.  milk,  two  tsp. 
vanilla,  one  and  one-half  c.  flour,  two  tsp.  baking-  powder 
sifted  in  the  flour.  Drop  medium  sized  spoonfuls  a  little 
distance  apart  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.   Wm.  R.  Blair. 

CREAM  DROP    CAKES. 

Two  c.  sweet  cream,  two  c.  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half 
tsp.  soda,  enough  flour  to  drop  nicely.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

COCOANTJT  DROP  CAKES- 

Cream  well  together  one-half  c.  of  butter  and  one  c  of 
sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  alternate- 
ly, one-third  of  a  c.  of  milk  and  two  c.  of  sifted  flour. 
Beat  well  until  smooth,  add  one  scant  tsp.  of  vanilla, 
one  quarter  of  a  tsp.  of  salt,  one  heaping  c.  of  grated 
cocoanut,  the  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  and  one 
heaping  tsp.  of  baking  powder.  Beat  for  a  moment  and 
drop  by  the  spoonful  on  well-greased  pans.  Flours 
vary  so  much  that  it  may  be  necessary  to  add  one  or  two 
spoonfuls  more  than  the  receipt  calls  for  to  keep  them 
in  shape.     When  baked  and  cold  put  away  in  a  stone  jar. 

DROP  GINGER  CAKES- 

One  c.  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  one  c.  Orleans  molasses, 
three  eggs  well  beaten  together,  one  c.  of  sour  milk,  one 
c.  of  brown  sugar,  one  tsp.  of  salt,  one  tbsp.  of  ginger, 
cloves  aud  cinnamon,  one  large  tbsp.  of  soda  dissolved  in 


152  CAKE. 

boiling  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
drop  on  tins  and  bake.      (Do  not  melt  lard  or  butter.) 

Mrs.   Wilbert  Frank. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
Dissolve  one  and  one-half  c.  granulated  sugar  in  one  c. 
milk.  To  this  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,'  four  tbsp.  of 
melted  butter,  one-half  a  nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  roll 
out  nicely.  Be  careful  not  to  have  it  too  stiff.  About  a 
qt.  of  flour  to  three  tsp.  of  baking  powder  will  do.  Cut 
out  and  fry  in  boiling-lard.  The  lard  must  more  than  cover 
them  when  raised.  Sprinkle  with  pulvarized  sugar  mixed 
with  nutmeg.  Mixing  the  sugar  with  the  milk  prevents 
the  dough  from  soaking  grease  and  avoids  the  use  of  a 
great  deal  of  flour  in  working  with  the  ;  dough.  It  makes 
the  cakes  puffy  and  delicate. 

Mrs.  Alexander  B.  Shefiftard. 

NUT  CAKES. 
One  lb.  sugar,  one  lb.  nuts,  whites  of  six  eggs.     Beat 
sugar   and   eggs   together   until  light ;  then  add   nuts. 
Drop  on  greased  pans.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Channcey  F.  Black. 

HICKORY   NUT  MACAROONS. 
White  of  one   egg  well  beaten,  add  one   e.  sugar   and 
beat  thoroughly,  one  c.  nut  meats  chopped   fine;  make 
into  balls  size  of  large  hickorynut ;  roll  in  flour  and  drop 
on  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Dillie  Hays. 


CAKE.  153 


154  CAKE. 


CAKE.  155 


156  CAKE. 


BEVERAGES 


COFFEE. 

Mix  coffee  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  Java,  one- 
third  Mocha,  one-third  Lag-uyra.        Gilmore  Hoffman. 

FRENCH  COFFEE. 

Two  parts  Mocha  coffee  carefully  roasted  and  ground, 
one  part  best  Government  Java,  roasted  and  ground.  To 
every  three  tbsp.  of  ground  coffee,  one  tsp.  of  chicory, 
and  make  the  coffee  as  usual.  Then  when  you  put  the 
milk  on  to  boil  put  in  a  large  pinch  of  pearl  barley  and 
strain  the  milk  after  it  is  boiled. 

Mrs.  Burns  {on  board  Scotia.) 

BOILED    COFFEE. 

One  heaping-  tbsp.  coffee  to  one  c.  boiling-  water. 
Measure  the  ground  coffee,  moisten  it  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  add  the  shell  of  an  eg-g-  and  a  little  of  the 
white.  Too  much  white  of  eg-g-  weakens  the  coffee.  Put 
the  mixture  into  a  heated  coffee  pot  and  pour  on  the 
freshly  boiled  water.  Boil  for  five  m. ,  add  one-fourth  c. 
cold  water  and  remove  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range. 
After  standing  a  few  m.  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Coffee  is 
improved  by  re-heating  just  before  serving-. 


158  BEVERAGES. 

FILTERED  COFFEE. 
One  heaping-  tbsp.  coffee  to  one  c.  boiling-  water.  The 
coffee,  finely  ground,  is  put  into  the  upper  part  of  a 
French  coffee-pot  which  has  been  heated  and  the  boiling- 
water  poured  throug-fi  it.  The  coffee-pot  must  be  kept 
in  a  warm  place  while  the  coffee  is  being-  made. 

TEA. 
One  tsp.  tea  to  one  c.  freshly  boiled  water.     Heat  the 
teapot ;  place  tea  in  teapot ;  pour   freshly  boiled  water 
over  it,  and  steep  a  few  m. 

ICED  TEA. 
One  large  pot  of  Heno  Tea,  very  strong-.     Sweeten  to 
taste,  and  add  the  juice  of  six   lemons,    with   plenty  of 
crushed  ice.     Put  a  few  slices  of  lemon  in   the  pitcher 
when  ready  to  serve.  Jane. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To  every  half  lb.  of  Maillard's  double  vanilla  choco- 
late use  one  and  one-half  c.  of  hot  water  and  three  c.  of 
milk.  Break  the  chocolate  into  small  pieces,  put  it  in 
saucepan  and  pour  over  it  the  hot  water.  Set  it  on  the 
back  of  rang-e  to  dissolve.  When  ready  to  serve  add  the 
milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

Each  half  lb.  cake  is  divided  into  six  cakes  and  will 
make  six  c.  of  chocolate.  Mrs.  Byron  H.  Painter. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To  each  paper  Maillard's  chocolate  (broken  into  small 
pieces)  add  one  and  one-half  coffee  c.  water.  Let  stand 
to  soften  and  dissolve,  then  add  three  coffee  c.  of  milk, 
put  on  the  fire  and  allow  to  boil  for  ten  m.  stirring-  every 
now  and  then.  Mrs.  John  W.  Chalfant. 


BEVERAGES.  159 

TO  PREPARE  CHOCOLATE. 
Each  one-half  lb.  is  divided  into  six  pieces.  Each 
piece  is  the  quantity  for  one  c.  Take  a  tin  pan  and  pour 
in  one-half  a  glass  of  warm  water  ;  break  the  chocolate 
in  small  pieces  and  let  it  dissolve  in  the  water,  stirring 
constantly.  When  dissolved  mix  with  a  c.  of  warm  milk 
and  stir  again  over  the  fire  until  it  boils  three  or  four  m. 
Then  the  chocolate  is  done  and  perfect.  It  is  very  neces- 
sary that  it  should  boil  to  be  good.        Henry  Maillard. 

INDIAN  LEMONADE. 
Pare  two  oranges  and  two  lemons  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  steep  them  for  four  h.  in  one  qt.  hot  water.  Boil 
one  and  one-fourth  lb.  loaf  sugar  in  three  pts.  of  water. 
Skim  it,  and  add  to  the  two  liquors  the  juice  of  six 
oranges  and  twelve  lemons.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag 
and  serve  ice  cold.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

PUNCH. 
One-half    tumbler    Jamaica    rum,     one-half    tumbler 
brandy,  one  tumbler  sugar,  three  tumblers  water,   one 
lemon.     To  be  well  iced.  Mr.  Travers. 

PHILADELPHIA  FISH  HOUSE  PUNCH. 
One  pt.  brand}T,  two  pts.  rum,  and  a  wineglass  peach 
brandy.  To  the  three  pts.  of  liquor  add  nine  pts.  water, 
one  pt.  lemon  juice,  and  two  lbs.  white  sugar.  Ice  well 
before  using.  One  lb.  ice  is  equal  to  one  pt.  of  water. 
Enough  for  twenty-five  persons.  Mrs.  Peters. 

THE  MANSION  HOUSE  LOVING  CUP— Sent  Me  By 
the  Lady  Mayoress. 

Take    one   bottle   Port   wine,   one  bottle    Claret,   one 
bottle   Madeira,   two  wineglasses  of  Curacao.     Put  all 


160.  BEVERAGES. 

into  a  jug ;  then  one  oz.  of  cloves,  one  oz.  of  cinnamon, 
one-half  oz.  of  nutmeg-,  ground  together,  boiled  in  a  pt. 
of  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  h.  ;  then  strain  the  water 
through  a  fine  linen  cloth  and  mix  all  tog-ether.  Bottle 
the  same  and  ice  it.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 

TEA  PUNCH. 

One  qt.  sherry  wine,  one  and  one-fourth  lb.  cut  sug-ar, 
six  lemons,  one  c.  green  tea  (Gunpowder  tea)  as  strong 
as  lye.  Peel  the  lemons  and  pour  the  hot  tea  over  the 
rinds.  Pour  the  lemon  juice  over  the  sug-ar.  After  the 
tea  is  cold  strain  it  from  the  rind  and  pour  over  the 
lemon  and  sug-ar,  add  the  wine,  strain  ag-ain  and  pour 
over  fine  crushed  ice.  Mrs.  Keyser. 

APPLE     TODDY. 

Six  apples,  one-half  pt.  rum,  one  qt.  whiskey  and  boil- 
ing- water  and  sug-ar  added  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Carroll  Winchester. 

APPLE    TOD. 

One  red  streaked  apple  roasted  on  a  china  plate  before 
a  slow  fire.  Put  it  into  a  tumbler,  mash  well  and  add 
one  glass  good  brandy.  Let  stand  twelve  hours  then 
add  two  wineglasses  of  water,  a  little  nutmeg  and  a 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Mrs.  Perine. 

EGG  NOGG. 

To  every  egg  a  wineglass  of  brandy  a  tbsp.  of 
granulated  sugar  and  a  tumbler  of  cream  (these  are  the 
proper  proportions).  To  every  twelve  yolks,  three  whites, 
beat  up  very  light  separately,  mix  them  together  and 
beat  again  as  if  for  a  pudding  ;  then  add  the  sugar  and 


BEVERAGES.  161 

beat  ag-ain  ;  then  add  the  brandy  gradually,  stirring-  all 
the  time  ;  then  stir  in  by  degrees  the  cream.  Flavor,  if 
you  choose,  with  a  little  rum  and  peach  brandy. 

Mrs.  Oivings  Hoffman. 

EGG  NOGG- 

Five  qts.  of  cream,  eight  tumblers  of  brandy,  sixty 
eg-g-s,  five  lb.  white  sug-ar.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sug-ar 
tog-ether,  add  the  brandy  by  degrees,  and  lastly  the 
cream.  Mrs.  Joseph  White. 

EGG  NOGG. 

Fourteen  wineglasses  brandy,  seven  of  Jamaica  spirits, 
mix  and  set  aside.  Beat  the  yolks  of  twenty  eg-g-s  with 
twenty  tbsp.  sug-ar,  and  pour  in  gradually  the  mixed 
liquors.  Beat  the  whites  with  two  tbsp.  sug-ar  very  lig-ht 
and  mix  half  of  this  into  the  yolks  and  liquor.  Pour  in 
slowly  two  qts.  cream  and  put  the  other  whites  of  the 
eg-g-s  on  top.  Maryland  Club. 

EGG  NOGG. 

One  pt.  brandy,  one-half  pt.  old  rum,  two  qts.  cream, 
one  doz.  eg-g-s  and  one  lb.  powdered  loaf  sug-ar. 

Mrs.  Carroll  Winchester. 

HOOK  CUP. 

Place  three  pieces  of  loaf  sugar,  a  few  torn  leaves  of 
fresh  mint  and  the  juice  and  thinly7  pared  rind  of  a 
lemon  in  a  two  qt.  glass  pitcher.  Fill  the  pitcher  to  the 
top  with  finely  crushed  ice  and  pour  over  the  whole  one 
qt.  white  wine.  Stir  well,  place  a  bunch  of  mint  in  the 
top  of  the  pitcher  and  allow  to  stand  for  a  few  m.  before 
serving-.  Major  Burbank. 


162  BEVERAGES. 

MULLED  WINE. 

Into  a  saucepan  put  one  tbsp.  of  white  cloves,  one  tsp. 
of  whole  allspice,  a  two-inch  stick  of  cinnamon  and  one 
pt.  of  boiling-  water.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  until 
reduced  one-half.  Strain,  add  one-half  of  a  c.  of  sug-ar 
and  one  pt.  of  claret,  reheat  almost  to  the  boiling-  point 
and  serve. 

MULLED  WINE 

One  qt.  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  half  a  tea  c 
of  whole  allspice  (tied  up  in  a  net  bag- ).  Put  half  the 
wine  and  all  of  the  water  and  allspice  on  to  boil.  Beat 
the  yellows  of  seven  eg-g-s  with  a  lb.  of  sug-ar  and  the 
remaining-  wine.  When  the  water,  wine  and  allspice  has 
boiled  for  five  m.,  pour  it  over  the  sug-ar,  etc.,  and  beat 
hard.  Pour  all  back  into  the  kettle  and  let  it  nearly 
boil  ag-ain,  stirring-  constantly.  Have  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  all  tog-ether  into  your  punch 
bowl  or  pitcher,  and  add  a  larg-e  tumblerful  of  cream, 
and  the  same  of  brandy.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  A,  E.  W.  Painter. 

FROM  LONG'S  HOTEL,  LONDON. 
Cider  Cup. 

One  bottle  of  cider  (one  qt.),  one  bottle  seltzer,  one 
and  one-half  liqueur  glasses  of  brandy,  one-half  liqueur 
g-lass  of  curacao,  four  drops  of  Maraschino,  ice,  two 
slices  of  lemon,  burridge  or  cucumber  peel,  one  dessert 
spoon  of  castor  sugar. 

Put  ice  first  always ;  then  burridge  and  lemon  ;  then 
liqueurs  and  sugar  ;  then  the  cider,  and  last  seltzer. 


BEVERAGES.  163 

Hock  Cup. 

Substitute  hock  for  cider  and  use  two  dessert  spoons 
of  sug-ar. 

Claret  Cup. 
Same  as  hock  cup — use  claret  instead  of  hock. 

Champagne   Cup. 

One  bottle  of  champagne,  one  liqueur  glass  of  brandy, 
one  liqueur  glass  of  curacao,  one-fourth  liqueur  glass  of 
Maraschino,  one  bottle  of  seltzer,  ice,  burridg-e  or  cucum- 
ber peel,  two  slices  of  lemon  peel. 

Mr.  Douglas  Stewart. 

CIDER  CUP. 

One  qt.  cider,  one-third  tumbler  brandy,  one-third 
tumbler  sherry,  one  qt.  Apollionaris,  one  can  of  pine- 
apple. Add  syrup  and  loaf  sug-ar  if  not  sweet  enough. 
Sliced  orang-es  and  lemons  to  suit  the  taste 

Mrs.  Horace  G.  Dravo. 

MINT  JULEP. 
Place  a  piece  of  sugar  and  a  few  torn  leaves  of  mint  in 
a  tall  glass  and  add  one  tbsp.  water,  or  barely  enough  to 
dissolve  the  sugar.  Then  rill  the  glass  to  the  top,  pack- 
ing it  tight",  with  fine  crushed  ice.  Last,  pour  in  as  much 
whisky  as  the  ice  will  allow  and  stir  in  the  center  for 
several  m.  with  a  silver  fork.  This  will  cause  a  thick 
frost  to  form  on  the  outside  of  the  glass. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Burgwin. 

CHERRY  CORDIAL. 

Stone  the  best  of  cherries  (May  Dukes  or  English 
Morellos)  and  let  them  remain  over  night  in  the  refriger- 


164  BEVERAGES. 

ator.  Next  morning  strain,  and  to  every  qt.  of  juice  al- 
low two  lbs.  of  coarse  granulated  sugar  and  a  qt.  of  good 
California  brandy.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  juice  and  stir 
until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  add  the  brandy  and 
strain  again.     Bottle  and  seal  up. 

Mrs.  Byron  H.  Painter. 

BLACKBERRY    WINE. 

To  every  gal.  of  berries  previously  mashed,  add  one 
qt.  soft  water.  After  a  thorough  fermentation  dip  off 
the  clear  juice  and  press  seeds,  etc.  To  every  gal.  juice 
add  two  and  one-half  lbs.  white  coffee  sugar,  put  into 
barrels,  cover  bung  holes  with  coarse  wire  gauze  and 
after  the  second  fermentation  has  taken  place  draw  off 
and  filter  through  flannel  or  gauze.  Place  in  barrels 
and  put  in  the  bungs.  The  oftener  it  is  filtered  the 
purer  and  better  it  will  be.  In  making  large  quantities 
a  cider  press  would  be  very  useful. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

GINGER  BEER. 

Two  lbs.  loaf  sugar,  one  and  one-half  oz.  ginger — 
bruised,  three  lemons,  juice  and  peel,  two  gals,  boiling 
water  poured  over  it.  When  luke  warm  add, two  tbsp. 
yeast  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  whipped.  Cover 
with  a  heavy  blanket.     The  next  day  skim  and  bottle. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 


BEVERAGES.  165 


166  AVERAGES. 


BEVERAGES.  167 


168  BEVERAGES. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES 


QUINCE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  quinces,  cut  them  in  pieces,  using 
cores  and  all.  Cover  them  with  water,  and  boil  until 
very  soft.  Mash  and  strain  them.  To  every  pt.  of  juice, 
put  a  lb.  of  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  forms  a  jelly, 
say  one-half  an  h.,  but  always  try  by  cooling  in  a 
spoon  until  it  leaves  the  spoon  in  a  mass.  If  you  wish 
to  preserve  the  quinces  or  put  them  in  pear  butter,  the 
cores  and  skins  make  good  jelly.  Mrs.  I.  Hager. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Put  currants,  stems  and  all,  into  a  crock  ;  pound  them 
with  a  potato  masher,  and  then  strain  them  through  a 
bag.  Put  two  or  four  pts.  of  juice  in  a  kettle,  and  let  it 
boil  twenty  m.  (the  less  juice  that  is  put  on  at  a  time 
the  more  delicate  the  jelly).  Stir  in  two  or  four  lbs.  of 
sugar  (one  lb.  to  one  pt.)  just  long'  enough  to  dissolve  it, 
and  pour  into  cups.  If  left  am.  too  long  on  the  fire  the 
jelly  will  be  thick  like  custard.  Mrs.  I.  Hager. 

CONSERVES. 

To  six  lbs.  of  ripe  fruit  allow  two  lbs.  of  sugar,  one  qt. 
of  water.     Put  all  in  a  kettle  together  ;  boil  until  per- 


170  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

fectly  soft,  then  take  out  the  fruit,  spread  on  dishes  and 
sun  for  two  days.  Then  put  the  fruit  again  in  the  kettle 
with  the  same  syrup  and  let  boil.  Spread  again  on  dishes 
arid  expose  to  the  sun  and  air  till  perfectly  dry  and  pack 
away  in  sugar.  The  fruit  should  be  turned  frequently 
(and  the  dishes  changed)  while  drying. 

Miss  Emily  Upshur  Johnston. 

TO  PRESERVE  STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh  the  strawberries  and  take  their  weight  in  sugar  ; 
put  them  into  the  kettle  together,  no  water,  or  not  more 
than  a  wineglass  full,  and  let  them  boil  up  well.  Pour 
them  into  a  bowl  and  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day. 
Give  them  another  boil,  and  perhaps  that  will  do.  If  not 
clear  boil  them  a  third  time.  Mrs.  Johnston. 

PEAR  BUTTER. 

Our  kettle  holds  a  little  more  than  one  and  one-half 
bushels.  A  little  over  one  bushel  pears  and  less  than  one- 
half  bushel  of  quinces  (the  right  proportion  for  a  large 
kettle  is  one-half  bushel  quinces  to  two  and  one-half 
bushel  pears),  twenty  lbs.  sugar,  one  oz.  ground  cinna- 
mon, one-half  oz.  ground  cloves.  Mrs.  Schroedcr. 

ORANGE    MARMALADE. 

Cover  one  doz.  seedless  oranges  with  water  and  boil 
until  skin  is  soft  enough  to  easily  insert  the  head  of  a  pin. 
When  cool,  thinly  slice  the  peel  and  shred  the  pulp  in 
small  pieces.  To  every  lb.  of  iruit  add  two  lbs.  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  pt.  water  in  which  oranges  were 
boiled  and  the  juice  of  three  large  or  four  small  lemons. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES.  171 

Boil  this  mixture  for  about  an  h.,  or  until  thick.  This 
quantity  of  fruit  makes  about  eig-ht  full  pts.  of  marma- 
lade. Mis.  John  Hampton. 

GINGER  PEARS. 
Eig-ht  lbs.  of  pears  cut  in  small  cubes,  eig-ht  lbs.  of 
sug-ar,  one  lb.  of  green  g-ing-er  root,  four  lemons  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Cook  pears,  sug-ar  and  g-ing-er  tog-ether 
slowly  with  very  little  water,  when  partly  done  add 
lemons  and  cook  until  clear  and  tender,  let  simmer  until 
brown.  M?s.  John  W.  Chalfant. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 
Five  lbs.  currants,  weig-hed  after  being-  stemmed,  four 
and  one-half  lbs.  white  sug-ar,  two  lemons,  rind  and  all 
chopped  fine,  one  tbsp.  cloves,  two  tbsp.  cinnamon,  one 
c  vineg-ar.  Boil  slowly  two  h.  until  the  consistency  of 
apple  butter.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES. 
Pare  your  peaches  and  then  weig-h  them,  taking-  half 
their  weig-ht  in  sug-ar.  Make  syrup  in  the  proportion  of 
four  lbs.  of  granulated  sug-ar  to  one  pt.  of  water.  Boil 
the  syrup  and  skim  until  perfectly  clear.  Place  the 
peaches  in  the  syrup  and  allow  them  to  cook  until  they 
crack  open  on  the  sides,  then  take  them  out  and  allow 
the  syrup  to  cook  until  it  becomes  quite  thick.  When 
cold  add  one  pt.  of  brandy  or  rum  to  one  pt.  of  syrup. 
Mix  well  and  pour  over  your  peaches  which  have  been 
placed  in  glass  jars.  Mrs.  H.  P.  Allen. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES 
To  every  lb.  of  pared  peaches  allow  three-fourths  lb. 
of  sug-ar.     Make  a  rich  syrup,   put  in  the  peaches  and 


172  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

cook  until  tender.  Take  them  out  and  drop  them  in  the 
brandy.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and  use  half  brandy 
and  half  syrup  to  pour  over  your  peaches. 

Miss  Donaldson. 

CUCUMBER   PICKLE. 

Six  doz.  cucumbers,  one  lb.  mustard,  one-fourth  pk. 
onions,  one  lb.  mustard  seed,  six  red  peppers,  one  tbsp. 
celery  seed,  six  sticks  horseradish,  two  lbs.  brown  sugar, 
three  qts.  and  one  pt.  vinegar. 

Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers  and  salt  them,  allowing 
them  to  remain  in  the  salt  over  night.  Next  morning 
drain  dry  and  add  the  cut  up  pepper  and  horseradish, 
and  mix  in  the  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed.  Put  two 
qts.  and  one  pt.  of  the  vinegar  on  in  the  kettle,  and 
when  it  is  boiling,  add  the  sugar  and  then  the  mustard, 
which  has  been  well  mixed  with  the  other  qt.  of  vinegar. 
Cook  this  until  very  thick,  and  then  add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  cook  until  all  is  very  thick.  Excellent 
pickle.  Mrs.  Albert  H.  Childs. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 
Slice  one-half  bushel  green  tomatoes,  twenty-four 
large  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  drain  in  basket 
all  night.  Squeeze  out,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with 
vinegar,  and  boil  twenty  m.  Let  stand  in  this  vinegar 
till  next  day.  Squeeze  out,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with 
fresh  vinegar,  and  add  two  lbs.  sugar,  one-half  lb.  white 
mustard  seed,  one-fourth  lb.  black  mustard  seed,  one 
small  box  mustard,  seventeen  cloves,  one  oz.  each  of 
allspice,  mace,  white  pepper  corns,  celery  seed  and  two 
oz.  tumeric.  Boil  until  just  a  little  tender.  When  cold, 
add  one  pt.  olive  oil,  one  c.  mustard  sauce. 

M?'s.  J.  B.   Washington. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES.  173 

WALNUT  PICKLES. 

Walnuts  (English)  for  pickling-  must  be  gathered  be- 
fore the  20th  of  June,  when  you  can  stick  a  pin  through 
them,  put  them  in  strong  salt  and  water  until  they  turn 
black,  Boil  good  cider  vinegar  with  spices  and  pepper 
and  throw  the  walnuts  in  the  boiling  vinegar.  Not  good 
for  a  year  after  made.  Mrs.  Nicholson. 

MARTINA  PICKLES. 

Put  tender  martinas  in  a  strong  brine  for  one  week. 
Take  them  out,  drain  them,  and  put  in  cold  vinegar 
leaving  them  for  two  weeks.  To  one  gal.  vinegar  put 
three  lbs.  brown  sugar,  one-half  a  c.  of  allspice,  one-half 
c.  of  pounded  cloves  and  one-half  c.  of  black  pepper,  two 
tbsp.  of  celery  seed,  three  pods  of  red  pepper.  Pound 
them  all  together,  boil  them  in  the  vinegar,  and  pour  it 
over  the  martinas.  Scraped  horseradish  is  an  improve- 
ment, if  added.  Mrs.  Brichhead. 

MANGOE  PICKLES. 

Take  a  doz.  small  green  mangoes,  cut  them  in  half, 
remove  the  seeds,  and  cover  with  brine  strong  enough  to 
bear  an  egg.  Leave  them  in  the  brine  for  one  week, 
then  pare  them  thinly  and  put  over  a  slow  fire  in  a  kettle 
of  water  lined  with  grape  leaves.  Simmer  until  they  are 
moderately  soft,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  when  cool 
fill  with  the  following  preparation  : 

Filling-  for  One  Dozen  Mangoes. 

One  lb.  white  mustard  seed,  washed  and  swelled,  two 

pts.  horse  radish,   one  bottle  salad  oil,    one  pt.    brown 

sugar,  one-half  c.  celery  seed,  a  few  small  onions  chopped, 

a  little  mace,  nutmeg,  cinnanon  and  cloves.     When  this 


174  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

is  all  mixed  thoroughly,  use  it  to  stuff  the  mangoes.  Place 
them  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  them  boiling-  vinegar 
in  which  some  brown  sugar  has  been  dissolved.  Tie  up 
closely  and  put  away.  These  pickles  are  not  good  until 
a  year  after  making.  "Friendship  Hill" 

SWEET  PICKLE. 

Seven  lbs.  cucumbers,  one  qt.  vinegar,  two  and  one-half 
lbs.  sugar,  one  and  one-half  oz.  each  of  mace,  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  ginger.  Scald  with  boiling  vinegar  three 
times.  Prepare  medium  sized  cucumbers,  soak  in  strong 
brine  one  week  and  scald  them  three  mornings  with  one- 
half  vinegar  and  half  water,  alum  the  size  of  a  cherry. 
Cut  the  cucumbers  in  quarters.  Mrs.  Cooper. 

WATERMELON  PICKLE. 

Take  the  rind  of  one  good  sized  melon  and  put  in  salt 
water  over  night.  Then  pare  off  the  green  outer  rind  and 
the  pink  soft  part  and  cut  in  small  squares  or  strips. 
Stick  a  few  cloves  in  each  piece  and  cook  in  the  follow- 
ing mixture,  after  it  has  come  to  the  boiling  point,  for 
half  an  h.  or  forty-five  m.  :  One  qt.  best  cider  vinegar, 
three  qts.  brown  sugar,  a  little  mace,  stick  cinnamon, 
cloves,  white  ginger  root  and  allspice.  It  is  an  improve- 
ment to  add  two  sliced  lemons  when  the  melon  rind  is  put 
into  the  syrup.  Mary  C.  Sfteer. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CANTALOUPE 

Take  a  fine  large  cantaloupe,  not  quite  ripe  enough  to 
eat ;  pare  and  cut  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick.  Just 
cover  with  vinegar  for  twenty-four  h.,  then  pour  off  and 
measure  the  vinegar,  leaving  out  one  qt.  To  what  re- 
mains add  three  lbs.  brown  sugar  to  each  qt.  and  cinna- 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES.  175 

mon,  cloves  and  mace  to  taste.  Put  on  the  fire  in  a 
kettle  and  when  it  boils  add  the  melon.  Cook  about 
one-half  an  h.  until  it  looks  clear.  It  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  two  or  three  weeks.  Mrs.  Keyser. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

One  qt.  oysters,  one  tbsp.  salt,  put  into  sl>  preserving- 
kettle  and  boil  about  ten  m.,  until  the  gills  turn  up. 
Skim  them  well.  Take  out  the  oysters,  put  into  a  colan- 
der and  run  cold  water  on  them  for  fifteen  m.  Add  to  the 
liquor  one-half  as  much  vinegar  as  there  is  liquor,  a  few 
cloves,  allspice,  white  peppercorns,  a  blade  of  mace ; 
boil  and  pour  over  oysters.  Mrs.  Keyser. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Select  ripe  tomatoes  and  mash  with  the  hands  to  extract 
all  the  juice.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  then  strain 
through  a  sieve.  To  every  two  g-als.  of  juice  add  six  tbsp. 
salt,  three  even  tbsp.  black  pepper,  four  even  tbsp.  mus- 
tard, one  tbsp.  each  of  cayenne  pepper,  ground  allspice 
and  ground  cloves,  the  latter  two  in  a  bag-,  one  qt.  strong- 
cider  vineg-ar,  one  lb.  brown  sug-ar.  Boil  down  until 
thick  and  smooth.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Washington. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Pour  doz.  ripe  tomatoes,  ten  green  peppers  and  twelve 
white  onions  chopped  fine.  Add  eig-ht  tbsp.  salt,  twelve 
tbsp.  brown  sugar  and  four  c.  strong  cider  vinegar.  Boil 
three  h.  and  add  just  before  taking  off  one-half  oz. 
celery  seed.  ■  Mrs.  J.   W.   Washington. 


176  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Slice,  sprinkle  and  let  drain  in  a  basket  all  night  one 
pk.  tomatoes  and  twelve  large  onions.  Then  add  one  lb. 
sugar,  one-quarter  lb.  white  mustard  seed,  one  small  box 
mustard,  one  oz.  each  of  mace,  cloves  and  pepper,  two  oz. 
celery  seed.  Cover  all  with  strong  vinegar  and  cook  until 
tender.  Mrs.  McKenzie. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES.  177 


178  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES.  179 


180  PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


CANDY 


CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One  lb.  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  lb.  chocolate  (four 
oz.)»  one-half  c.  cream,  one-half  c.  butter,  one-half  c. 
molasses,  one  tbsp.  vanilla,  one  c.  chopped  nuts.  Cook 
all  together  except  the  vanilla  and  the  nuts.  When  the 
temperature  is  254°  Fahr.,  remove  from  the  range,  add 
vanilla  and  nuts  and  pour  into  shallow  pans  which  have 
been  well  buttered.  If  too  soft  add  a  little  milk  and 
cook  again  to  same  temperature.  This  may  be  done 
several  times  if  there  is  trouble  getting  them  hard. 

CHOCOLATE    CARAMELS. 

Two  c.  brown  sugar,  one  c.  molasses,  one-half  c.  milk, 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  To  this  quantity  use 
one  package  Maillard's  or  German  sweet  chocolate  and 
one  tbsp.  vanilla.     Boil  about  half  an  h. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One-half  lb.  Baker's  chocolate,  one  c.  rich  milk  or 
cream,  one-fourth  lb.  butter,  one  and  one-half  lb.  sugar, 
one-half  tbsp.  vanilla.  The  only  way  to  tell  when  the 
caramels  are  done  is  by  placing  a  little  of  the  candy  on  a 
saucer  and  stirring  with   a   fork — when  it  creams    and 


182  CANDY. 

becomes  firm  it  must  be  taken  from  the  stove  immediately 
and  poured  onto  a  large  well  buttered  meat  platter  and 
stirred  vigorously  with  a  fork  until  it  thickens  and 
becomes  firm.     Cut  in  squares  before  it  is  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  L   Dawson  Speer. 

TAFFY. 

One  qt.  Orleans  molasses,  one  c.  white  sugar,  one  tbsp. 
butter,  one  tbsp.  vinegar.  Boil  all  together  and  try  in 
water  to  see  when  it  is  done.  Just  before  taking  from  the 
stove  add  a  small  one-half  tsp.  soda. 

WHITE  TAFFY. 

Two  lbs.  white  sugar,  enougm  water  to  melt  it,  one 
tbsp.  butter,  one  tbsp.  vinegar,  one  tbsp.  vanilla,  one 
tsp.  cream  tartar  ;  put  all  in  at  once  except  vanilla.  Do 
not  stir  while  boiling.  Emma  F.  Peterson. 

BVERTON  TAFFY. 

One  lb.  of  white  sugar,  one  c.  of  cold  water,  one  oz.  of 
butter;  add  one  tbsp.  of  vinegar;  when  it  boils  twenty 
m.,  add  one  dessert  spoonful  of  vanilla  and  pour  in  but- 
tered plates.  "  Cloud  Capped" 

ALMOND  CANDY 

One  lb.  maple  sugar,  one  pt.  cream.  When  the  prep- 
aration comes  to  a  boil  add  one  lb.  blanched  almonds. 

Miss  J.  McC.  Taylor. 

PEANUT     CANDY. 

One  c.  granulated  sugar,  one  c  rolled  peanuts.  The 
nuts  are  prepared  by  chopping,  by  rolling  with  a  wooden 
pin  or  by  putting  through  the  meat  chopper.    Warm  the 


CANDY.  183 

sugar  in  a  pan  in  the  oven.  Put  it  into  a  heated  French 
pan.  When  it  has  melted  remove  to  the  back  of  the 
range  and  add  the  peanuts,  mixing-  them  thoroughly 
with  the  melted  sugar.  Spread  in  a  tin  and  press  into 
shape  with  knives.  The  tin  does  not  need  greasing-. 
Cut  into  bars.     The  candy  hardens  immediately. 

TOFFEE. 

One  lb.  brown  sug-ar,  one-half  c.  butter,  one  lemon  or 
four  tbsp.  vineg-ar,  English  walnuts.  Heat  the  sug-ar, 
butter  and  acid  over  moderate  heat.  When  the  mixture 
bubbles,  stop  stirring-,  and  cook  to  270°  Fahr.  Pour  it 
over  the  nuts,  which  have  been  put  on  well  buttered 
pans.     It  hardens  in  a  few  minutes. 

COOOANUT  BAR. 

Four  c.  sug-ar,  one  c.  water,  one-half  tsp  cream  of 
tartar,  one-fourth  lb.  cocoanut.  Stir  the  sug-ar,  water 
and  cream  of  tartar  together  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
As  soon  as  the  mixture  bubbles,  cook  without  stirring 
until  it  reaches  238°  Fahr.  Remove  immediately  from 
the  range.  Cool  (but  not  in  a  very  cold  place)  ;  then 
beat  until  it  thickens,  and  add  the  cocoanut.  Desiccated 
cocoanut  may  be  used.  Spread  on  buttered  pans.  Cool, 
but  not  in  cold  place,  as  cold  hardens  the  top.  It  should 
be  soft  and  creamy.     Cut  into  bars. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Dissolve  a  half  lb.  of  gum  arabic  in  one  pt.  of  water  ; 
strain  and  add  half  a  lb.  of  white  sugar.  Place  over  the 
fire,  stirring  constantly  until  the  syrup  is  dissolved  and 
cooked  to  the  consistency  of  honey  ;  take  from   the   fire, 


184  CANDY. 

add  gradually  to  the  whites  of  four  eg-gs  well  beaten  ; 
stir  the  mixture  until  it  is  somewhat  thin,  and  does  not 
adhere  to  the  fing-ers.  Flavor  to  taste  ;  pour  into  a  tin 
slightly  dusted  with  powdered  starch  ;  put  in  a  warm 
place,  and  when  firm  enoug-h  cut  in  small  squares. 


CANDY.  185 


186  CANDY. 


CANDY.  187 


188  CANDY. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


RECEIPT  FOR  MAKING  COLOGNE. 

Oil  of  berg-amot,  two  drachms;  oil  of  lemon,  one  drachm; 
oil  of  neroli,  twenty  drops  ;  oil  of  orig-anum,  six  drops  ;  oil 
of  rosemary,  twenty  drops  ;  alcohol,  triple  distilled,  one 
pt.  ;  orange-flower  water,  one  oz. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Wilkins. 

FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS. 

Six  oz.  of  witch-hazel,  one  oz.  of  bay -rum,  one-half 
oz.  spirits  of  camphor,  one-half  oz.  of  g-lycerine. 

From   "The   Country   Gentleman-''1 

POT-POURRI.— Old  Fashioned  June  Roses. 

Gather  the  roses  quite  dry,  pull  them  from  their  stalks, 
leaving-  out  all  wet  or  decayed  leaves;  put  with  them  a 
small  quantity  of  lavender  and  orang-e  flowers.  Lay 
them  in  a  gdazed  jar  in  thick  layers,  strew  freely  with 
bag'  salt  between  each  layer,  pressing-  them  down  with 
the  hand.  Put  away  with  a  cover  on,  and  let  remain 
two  weeks.  At  the  end  of  that  time  pour  off  any  liquor 
and  press  the  leaves  with  the  hands,  break  in  pieces, 
g-etting-  all  moisture  out.     Then  prepare  the  following- 


190  MISCELLANEOUS. 

mixture:  one  ounce  each  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  gum 
benzoine,  orris  root,  sliced  sandalwood,  a  small  quantity 
of  musk.  Mix  all  this  with  the  rose  leaves,  put  in  ajar, 
stirring  frequently.  Mrs.  Horace  G.  Dravo. 

TO  STEAM  VELVET 

Steam  velvet  bj  wetting-  thoroughly  on  the  wrong  side 
and  pass  the  wrong  side  over  a  very  hot  iron  quickly. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW— No.  1. 

One-fourth  lb.  chloride  of  lime  in  two  gals,  of  water. 
Let  it  stand  one  h.  and  pour  off  and  strain.  Put  the 
clothes  in  and  let  them  stand  two  h.,  then  wash  well. 
(This  I  like  best,  and  have  used  frequently;  No.  2  I 
keep  for  stains.)  Mrs.  I.  Hager. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  MILDEW— No.  2. 

Take  one-half  lb.  chloride  of  lime,  powder  it  and  put 
on  it  two  qts.  cold  water.  Stir  it  well  and  then  let  it 
settle.  Pour  off  the  liquid  and  strain  and  bottle  it,  cork 
tightly.  Cover  the  stains  or  mildew  with  the  liquid.  It 
can  remain  on  several  days  without  injury,  and  may  then 
be  washed  out.  Mrs.  I.  Hager. 

BENZINE  CLEANING  FLUID. 

One  drachm  sulphuric  ether,  one  drachm  chloroform, 
two  drachms  alcohol  mixed  with  one  drachm  oil  of  winter- 
green,  one  qt.  deodorized  benzine. 

Mrs.  Byron  H.  Painter. 

CLEANING    COMPOUND. 

One-half  oz.  alcohol,  one-fourth  oz.  white  castile  soap, 
one-half     oz.      sulphuric     ether,     one-fourth     lb.      aqua 


MISCELLANEOUS.  191 

ammonia,  one-half  oz.  glycerine.  Dissolve  soap  in  one 
pt.  soft  water,  then  add  two  qts.  more  water  and  the 
other  ingredients  and  bottle  for  use. 

Mrs .   McKen  n  a n . 


CLEANING   FLUID. 

Will  remove  all  grease  spots  from  clothes.  Three  oz. 
Williams'  shaving  soap,  two  oz.  ammonia,  one  oz.  salt- 
petre and  enougm  water  to  make  one  gal.  in  all. 

L.   W.   Washington. 

TO  CLEAN  CARPETS  AND  WOOLENS. 

Four  oz.  aqua  ammonia,  one  oz.  sulphuric  ether,  one 
oz.  glycerine,  one  oz.  alcohol,  and  four  oz.  Castile  soap. 
Shave  the  soap.  Pour  over  it  one  qt.  tepid  water. 
Keep  on  the  fire  until  dissolved,  then  add  three  qts.  tepid 
water.  When  this  cools,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and 
bottle,  corking  tightly.  Rub  on  with  a  sponge,  and  wipe 
with  a  clean  cloth. 

For  carpets,  mix  with  a  little  more  water  ;  scrub,  and 
rub  with  a  dry  cloth.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

ENGLISH  RECIPE  FOR  CLEANING  WALL  PAPER. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  three  loaves  of  bread.  One- 
half  wheat  flour  and  one-half  rye  flour  ;  one  tbsp.  salt, 
two  tbsp.  pulverized  alum,  some  washing  blue,  one  cake 
3'east.  Raise'  as  for  bread,  and  bake  one  h.  While 
warm,  cut  off  the  crust  and  put  into  a  large  bowl  and 
pour  over  it  one  c.  water.  Knead  into  a  stiff  dough, 
like  putty.  Squeeze  into  balls  and  rub  paper  in  one 
direction.  Mrs.  J.  B.    Washington. 


192  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  MAKE  LYE. 

Fill  your  lye  hopper  with  good  ashes,  four  weeks  be- 
fore you  make  jour  soap.  Throw  into  it  a  bucket  or 
two  of  water,  every  two  or  three  days,  and  when  you 
make  your  lye  pour  in  boiling-  water  until  you  make  it 
strong-  enoug-h  to  bear  an  eg-g\ 

TO  MAKE  HARD  SOAP. 

To  clarify  the  fat  put  the  grease  into  a  kettle  of  cold 
water  ;  after  it  has  boiled  run  it  throug-h  a  coarse  cloth 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  The  fat  will  settle  in  a  cake.  Put 
into  a  pot  that  will  hold  twelve  gals.,  twelve  lbs.  of  fat 
(always  a  lb.  of  fat  to  a  gal.  of  water),  and  let  it  get 
boiling  hot ;  add  to  it  two  gals,  strong  lye.  When  it 
again  becomes  boiling  hot  put  in  two  gals.  more.  After 
that  let  it  boil  as  quickly  as  possible,  stirring  it  all  the 
time,  and  feeding  it  with  lye  as  it  begins  to  boil  over, 
until  the  pot  is  nearly  full.  When  there  is  no  more 
grease,  and  it  seems  well  incorporated,  the  soap  is  done.. 
Then  stir  into  the  twelve  gals,  about  three  pts.  salt  until 
it  mixes  well,  it  will  take  about  a  quarter  of  an  h. 

TO  MAKE  SOFT  SOAP 

Allow  sixteen  lbs.  grease  and  sixteen  lbs.  potash  for  a 
barrel  of  soap.  The  grease  should  be  good,  neither 
mouldy  nor  wormy.  The  potash  should  be  the  color  of 
pumice  stone.  That  which  is  red  makes  dark  soap.  Cut 
grease  into  pieces  of  about  one  or  two  oz.  and  put  it  into 
a  tight  barrel  with  the  potash.  Then  pour  in  two  pail- 
fuls  of  rain  or  spring  water.  The  soap  will  be  soonest 
made  by  heating  the  water,  but  it  is  just  as  sure  to  be 
good  if  made  with  cold  water.     Add  one-half  pailful  of 


MISCELLANEOUS.  193 

water  every  day  until  the  barrel  is  one-half  full,  stirring- 
it  well  each  day.  A  long-  stick  with  a  cross-piece  at  the 
lower  end  is  the  best  for  this  purpose  When  the  barrel 
is  one-half  full,  add  no  more  water  for  a  week  or  ten  da}^s, 
but  continue  to  stir  daily;  after  that  continue  to  add  a 
pailful  every  day  until  the  barrel  is  full.  It  is  best  to 
keep  soap  three  or  four  months  before  using-.  Soft  soap 
made  of  clear  grease  and  g-ood  potash  is  of  a  lig-ht  nan- 
keen color  and  is  better  for  washing-  flannels  and  white 
clothes  than  any  other. 

TO  RENDER  MUTTON  SUET. 

Take  the  kidney-fat  of  suet,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and 
put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  about  one  tbsp.  water  to 
keep  it  from  burning-.  When  the  fat  separates  from  the 
cracklings,  strain  it  into  a  dish  with  one-half  c.  milk. 
Let  it  stand  until  the  next  day,  then  take  it  off  the  milk 
and  put  it  again  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  little  more 
milk.  When  it  melts  pour  in  a  few  drops  of  rose  water, 
and  pour  it  into  cups.  When  cold  take  it  out  of  the  cups 
and  the  dreg's  will  be  found  at  the  bottom  with  the  milk. 

TO  TAKE  STAINS  OUT  OF  WHITE  CLOTHES 

First  apply  chloride  of  soda  and  if  that  does  not  remove 
the  stain  use  oxalic  acid  dissolved  in  water. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  INK. 
A  mixture  of  soft  soap,  tallow,   salt  and  lemon  juice. 
First  wash  out  the  ink  in  water,   and  then,  when  the 
mixture  is  hot,  lay  the  ink  spot  in  it. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  PAINT. 
Use  powdered  French  chalk  and  hot  water.     French 
chalk  is  the  common  steatite  or  soap  stone.  Use  no  soap. 


194  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  SET  THE  COLORS  OF  CALICOES. 

A  weak  solution  of  alum  water  will  set  the  colors  in 
printed  goods  of  all  descriptions. 

Calicoes  should  be  washed  in  three  fresh  lathers  of  the 
best  soap,  and  then  in  three  or  four  rinsing-  waters. 

To  set  the  colors  of  green,  yellow,  fawn,  maroon,  drab 
and  stone,  throw  a  handful  of  salt  in  the  last  water. 

To  set  the  color  of  lilac  and  purple  use  strong  alum 
water  in  the  last  rinsing-  water. 

Use  soft  water  whenever  possible  for  washing-  calicoes 
and  prepare  the  lather  by  boiling-  the  soap  in  the  water. 
Wash  the  g-oods  when  the  lather  is  milk  warm.  It  is 
best  to  have  two  lathers  prepared  at  once  so  as  to  wash 
the  material  as  quickly  as  possible.  Always  dry  in  the 
shade.     The  day  must  be  a  clear  one. 


TO  WASH  FLANNEL. 

This  must  be  done  on  a  clear  day  and  when  washed 
must  be  put  out  as  quickly  as  possible  to  dry.  Wash  in 
a  strong-  lather  of  soap  and  water,  as  hot  as  your  hands 
can  bear.  Carry  throug-h  two  or  three  waters  if  neces- 
sary and  let  the  last  water  be  a  lig-ht  lather  of  soap  in- 
stead of  clear  water,  as  that  will  keep  the  flannel  white. 
As  soon  as  it  is  washed  shake  it  out  and  hang-  in  the 
wind  and  sun  to  dry  as  quickly  as  possible.  When  nearly 
dry,  just  to  feel  a  dampness  in  it,  shake,  stretch  and  fold 
it  smooth.  Put  it  in  a  press  and  let  it  stay  all  nig-ht,  or 
until  sufficiently  pressed.  Take  it  out  and  iron  out  the 
strings  and  bindings,  but  not  the  flannel,  as  that  would 
turn  it  yellow. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  195 

TO  "WASH  BLACK  LACE  OR  NET. 

Half  a  pt.  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  one  tbsp.  gum  arabic. 
Dip  it  in  this  mixture.  When  nearly  dry,  iron  it  care- 
fully. 

TO  TAKE  SPOTS  OUT  OF  MATTING. 

For  a  yellow  spot  or  stain  on  matting-,  wash  with  a 
weak  solution  of  oxalic  acid  (six  cents'  worth  in  one  gal. 
water).     If  too  strong,  it  will  turn  it  white. 

To  restore  a  white  spot  to  the  original  color,  use  a 
weak  solution  of  carbonate  of  soda. 

TO  TAKE  INK  OUT  OF  CARPETS. 

Cover  the  spot  at  once  with  raw  potato  scraped  to  a 
pulp,  and  renew  as  often  as  the  paste  becomes  discolored. 

TO  TAKE  GREASE  OUT  OF  CARPETS. 

Cover  the  spot  with  buckwheat  batter  prepared  for 
baking. 

TO  TAKE  SPOTS  OUT  OF  MARBLE  HEARTHS. 

Pearl  ash,  fuller's  earth  and  whiting  mixed  with  spirits 
of  wine  to  a  paste,  and  put  on  the  spots.  Wash  off  every 
morning  with  soap  and  water,  and  renew  until  the  spots 
disappear. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  MARBLE  HEARTHS. 

Rub  the  marble  with  grit  first  and  pumice  stone  after- 
ward. 

TO  DRIVE  AWAY  ANTS. 

The  little  red  ants  will  leave  closets  where  sea  sand  is 
sprinkled,  or  where  oyster  shells  are  laid. 

Scatter  sprigs  of  wormwood  where  black  ants  are 
troublesome. 


196  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  KEEP  EGGS  UNTIL  WINTER. 

Place  a  layer  of  sawdust  or  salt  in  a  keg-.  Pack  the 
eggs  closely  with  the  small  ends  down.  Over  this  anoth- 
er layer  of  salt  or  saw  dust  ;  packing-  closely  between  the 
egg-s,  where  they  must  not  touch  ;  and  so  on  alternately, 
until  the  keg-  is  full.  Head  it  up  tig-fitly  and  turn  it  from 
end  to  end  every  twenty-four  h. 

MARKING  WITH  INDELIBLE  INK. 

If  you  wash  the  spot  on  the  articles  to  be  marked,  with 
a  mixture  of  as  much  saleratus  as  a  qt.  of  water  will  take 
up,  and  a  lump  of  g*um-arabic,  you  will  rind  that  the 
marking-  will  be  much  easier  and  will  look  much  better. 

TO  CLEAN  PRINTS   A.ND    ENGRAVINGS. 

Wash  them  with  chlorine  of  different  degrees  of 
strength,  according-  to  the  stain.  Chlorine  will  general- 
ly remove  the  stain,  and  have  no  effect  upon  the  ink  vised 
in  printing-.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

KEEPING   FURNITURE   BRIGHT. 

Wash  thoroug-hly  with  warm  soapy  water,  drying-  as 
quickly  as  possible  ;  then  with  a  flannel  rag-  dipped  in  a 
mixture  of  two  parts  linseed  to  one  of  kerosene,  rub  the 
surface  thoroug-hly.  Let  it  stand  until  you  have  rubbed 
another  piece,  and  then  with  a  perfectly  clean  piece  of 
flannel  free  from  oil,  polish  until  it  shines  to  your  taste. 
It  will  not  hurt  the  daintiest  wood  and  the  odor  soon 
evaporates.  If  there  is  much  furniture  to  be  polished 
mix  a  little  at  a  time.  Clean  oil  and  clean  rag's  make 
much  better  results.  Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  197 

TO  KEEP  FLOWERS  FRESH. 

Put  a  small  quantity  of  alum  in  the  water  in  which 
they  are  placed.  This  is  best  done  by  dissolving-  alum 
in  hot  water  and  adding-  to  fresh  water  in  the  proportion 
of  about  one  tbsp.  to  one  pt. 

TO  PREVENT  MOULD  ON  PRESERVES. 

Mould  can  be  kept  off  the  top  of  preserves  by  putting- 
a  few  drops  of  glycerine  around  the  edges  of  the  jar 
before  screwing  on  the  cover. 

TO  TAKE  COVERS   OFF  FRUIT  JARS. 

If  the  fruit  jar  covers  are  difficult  to  remove,  invert 
the  jar  and  place  it  in  hot  water  for  a  m.  or  two.  You 
will  be  surprised  to  find  how  easily  the  cover  yields  to 
a  very  slight  effort. 

SILVER  POLISH. 

One  lb.  Gilder's  whiting,  three  oz.  alcohol,  one-fourth 
pt.  ammonia,  one  pt.  water. 

Mrs.  J.  B.   Washington. 

TO  REMOVE  RUST  FROM  KNIVES  OR  ANY  STEEL. 

Cover  with  sweet  oil,  then  with  dry  lime  on  a  woolen 
rag,  rub  them  well,  afterwards  with  dry  pearl  ash  in  the 
same  way.  Oil  them  ag-ain  and  put  them  aside.  Repeat 
the  process,  if  necessary,  for  two  or  three  days  and  the 
rust  will  entirely  disappear. 

To  finish  off  and  make  them  bright  mix  oil  and  rotten 
stone  and  polishthem  well. 


198  MISCELLANEOUS. 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS. 

Clean  brass  (lamps,  fenders,  etc.)  with  rotten  stone; 
mix  oxalic  acid  very  weak  with  water  and  use  just 
enoug-h  of  the  mixture  to  moisten  the  rotten  stone. 

TO  CLEAN  TINS. 

Clean  tins  with  brick  dust  and  lard  and  they  will  be 
beautiful. 

TO  TAKE  SPOTS  OFF  GILT. 

To  take  spots  off  of  gilt. — White  of  eg-g  applied  with 
a  camel's  hair  brush.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Johnston. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  199 


200  MISCELLANEOUS. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  201 


202  MISCELLANEOUS. 


INDEX. 


SOUPS. 

Beef  Tea 3 

Calf's  Head  Soup 2 

Chestnut  Soup 4 

Chicken  Curry,  with  Rice    ...  3 

Clam  Soup 1 

Clear  Soup 1 

Corn  Soup 4 

Creen  Corn  and  Tomato  Soup  5 

Green  Pea  Soup 6 

Marrow  Balls 6 

Mutton  Broth 4 

Okra  Soup 1 

Ox  Tail  Soup 2 

Rice  Soup 5 

Rice  and  Tomato  Soup  ....  5 

Turkey  Soup 3 

FISH. 

Crabs,  Soft 12 

Fish  a  la  Creme 15 

Fish  Balls      15 

Halibut  a  la  Creme 14 

Little  Pigs-  in  Blankets     ....  12 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg     ....  13 

Oysters  a  la  Newburg          ...  11 

Oysters  Fricassee 11 

Oysters  on  Chafing  Dish      ...  11 

Oysters  Panned 12 

Rock  Fish^a  la  Creme     ....  14 

Salmon  with  Sauce,  Dressed  .    .  15 

Shad  Cutlets 13 

Shad  Roe 13 


ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit    ....  25 

Biscuit,  Sherwood 24 

Boston  Brown  Bread 21 

Bread  Cake 27 

Brown  Flour  Muffins 23 

Buckwheat  Cakes 28 

Buttermilk  Cakes 27 

Corn  Bread 24 

Corn  Cakes 28 

Corn  Fritters 28 

Corn  Fritters     •••....  28 

Corn  Muffins 25 

Delicious  Corn  Bread      .    .    .    .  25 

Drop  Biscuit 25 

Egg  Pone 24 

English  Muffins 24 

Fritters 30 

German  Pancakes         29 

German  Toast  31 

Graham  Griddle  Cakes  ....  30 

Grits  Muffins 23 

"  Hermitage  "  Muffins     ....  23 

Maryland  Biscuit 26 

Milk  Toast       31 

Pop  Overs 27 

Potato  Rolls 21 

Potato  Rolls 22 

Rice  Cakes       29 

Rice   Cakes 29 

Rolls 21 

Rusk 22 

Rusk 23 


204 


INDEX. 


Sally  Lunn 31 

Short  Bread,  Margaret' s  Scotch  .  26 

Soda  Crackers 26 

Turn  Overs 22 

Wafers .  26 

Waffles 30 

Waffles,  Rice 31 

Waffles,  Risen 30 

EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 

Baked  Eggs 37 

Baked  Eggs 38 

Cheese  Fondue 39 

Cheese  Pudding 39 

Cheese  Puffs 39 

Cheese  Souffle 39 

Eggs  a  la  Martin 37 

Egg  Puffs  .    .        .......  37 

Orange  Omelet 38 

Welsh  Rarebit 38 

MEATS,  ENTREES. 

Canapes,  Lorenzo 48 

Calf's  Head,  Scalloped    ....  47 

Calf's  Heart,  Stuffed 47 

Chicken,  To  Cook  Spring    ...  50 

Chicken,   Boiled 50 

Chicken,  Filling  for 50 

Chicken,   Jellied  .......  59 

Chicken,  Jellied 58 

Chicken  Livers 47 

Chicken  for  Lunch 56 

Chicken  with  Jelly,  Minced    .    .  58 

Chicken  Terrapin 56 

Chicken  Croquettes 54 

Croquettes 55 

Croquettes 55 

Croquettes  (Meat  and  Hominy)  .  55 

Croquettes,  Sweet  Potato    ...  56 


Chops  a  la  Maintenon    ....  48 

Corn  Beef 49 

Devilled  Dressing    ......  57 

Dutch  Pudding .  51 

Frizzled  Beef 51 

Frogs'  Legs,  No.  1 -58 

Frogs'  Legs,  No.  2 58 

Hamburg  Steaks 51 

Hash 52 

Hash,  Baked 52 

Hash,    Liver    ........  52 

Hash,  Turkey  .........  52 

Kidney,  Stewed 53 

Liver,  Pate  of 46 

Liver,  Roast  Calf's 45 

Liver,  Roast  Spiced 46 

Marrow  on  Toast         .....  57 

Mutton  Cutlets  a  la  Maintenon.  .  48 

Quail,  Roast 45 

Rissolles 54 

Sweetbreads .  53 

Sweetbreads,  Baked 53 

Terrapin,  to    Dress 56 

Terrapin,  Chicken    ...         .    .  56 

Terrapin,  Mock 57 

Turkey    Roast 45 

Veal  Cutlets,   To  Cook    ....  49 

Veal,  Jellied 59 

Veal    Loaf 60 

White   Puddings.     .......  50 


Bacon — Receipt   for    Curing 

.    .    67 

Cheese  Souse 

.    .    68 

Cheese  Souse,  To  Make  .  . 

.    .    68 

Cure  Hams,   To  .    . 

.    .    66 

Curing  Hams,  Receipt  for  . 

.    .    65 

Curing  Hams 

.    .    66 

Ham,  To  Boil  and  Bake  a 

.    .    69 

INDEX. 


205 


Ham  Patties     .    .  " 70 

Pudding 69 

Roast  Pig 69 

VEGETABLES 

Apples,   Fried 78 

Asparagus  with  Eggs 82 

Cauliflower,    Escaloped  ....  80 

Celery  au  Jus 81 

Cold  Slaw 82 

Cold  Slaw    .    . 82 

Com  Pudding 79 

Corn    Pudding .79 

Cornlet,     Scalloped      .    ....  80 

Egg  Plant,  Stuffed 81 

Frijoles 76 

Macaroni 79 

Mushrooms 78 

Okra 76 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 77 

Potatoes,  Glazed  Sweet           .    .  79 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise     ....  76 

Potatoes,   Stewed 77 

Potatoes,  Stuffed 77 

Rice               75 

Rice,  To  Boil       75 

Squash,  To   Cook   Summer    .    .  78 

Tomatoes,   Broiled           ....  80 

SALADS,   SALAD  DRESSINGS  & 
SANDWICHES. 

French  Dressing 88 

French  Dressing 88 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 88 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 89 

Salad  Dressing,  Cooked  ....  88 

Tartar  Sauce 89 

Tomato  Jelly 87 

Tomatoes    Stuffed     with    Sweet- 
breads      87 


Egg  Sandwiches       90 

Lemon  Sandwiches 90 

Meat  Sandwiches 90 

Olive  Sandwiches 91 

DESSERTS. 

Apple     Compote 108 

Apple   Dumplings,  Baked  .    .    .  105 

Apple  Fritters 116 

Apple    Pie 117 

Apple  Pudding,    Fancy  ....  106 

Bananas,    Fried 116 

Blanc  Mange Ill 

Blanc   Mange Ill 

Blanc    Mange,    Chocolate       .    .112 

Blanc  Mange,  Cream Ill 

Blueberry  Pudding  .    .    .  107 

Boiled  Pudding,  Old  Fashioned     108 
Bread    Pudding  ...     .106 

Bread  and  Apple  Pudding  .    .    .  106 

Cafe  Parfait 98 

Charlotte    Russe 112 

Charlotte    Russe 113 

Charlotte  Russe,  Invalid's  .    .    .  113 

Cocoanut    Pudding 104 

Cream,   Mrs.  Shipman's  ....  112 

Cream,  Velvet  ....  .    .  112 

Cream   Tapioca   Pudding    .    .    .  104 

Custard,   Baked 102 

Custard,    Boiled       115 

Custard,    Caramel    ....  102 

Custard  Souffle' 102 

Danish  Pudding '  .    .103 

Fig  Pudding 101 

Frozen  Peaches 98 

Frozen  Strawberries  ......     98 

Fruit  Fritters,  Batter  for  .     .    .       116 

Ginger  Pudding 103 

Huckleberry  Pudding 107 


206 


INDEX. 


Ice  Cream,  Filling  for  Rich.   .    .     97 

Ice  Cream,  Macaroon 98 

Ice  Cream,  Vanilla 97 

Iced    Rice    Pudding    with    Com- 
pote of  Oranges 99 

Imperial  Pudding 99 

Indian  Pudding.  ....  105 

Indian  Pudding,  Boiled  ....  108 

Jelly,  Boiled  Wine 110 

Jelly,    Coffee 110 

Jelly  from  Feet,  To  make  .    .    .  109 

Jelly,   Wine 110 

Jellied  Prunes 110 

Lemon  Pie 118 

Meringue 115 

Mince  Meat      .......       117 

Mince  Meat 117 

Oatmeal   Pudding 105 

Orange  Ice .99 

Peach    Pudding 107 

Peach  Sponge 114 

Plum  Pudding 100 

Plum  Pudding 101 

Prune    Pudding    .......  104 

Pumpkin    Pie        117 

Putnam    Thanksgiving    Pudding, 

The 103 

Rice  Meringue  Pudding  ....  114 

Roily  Poly  Pudding 107 

Strawberry  Charlotte  .    .         .    .  114 

Strawberry  Meringue 114 

Strawberry  Short    Cake  .    .    .    .113 

Transparent  Pies  118 

Transparent    Puddings    .    .    .    .119 

Tylers 118 

Washington  Pie 119 

SAUCES. 

For  Fish. 

Cucumber  Sauce 125 

White    Sauce 125 


For    Meats. 

Brown    Sauce 126 

Chives    Sauce ,.       126 

Lemon  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowl    .  126 
Papilotte   Sauce 127 

For    Vegetables. 

Cream  or  White  Sauce    ...  .  127 

White    Sauce .  .  128 

White  Sauce  or  Drawn  Butter  .  127 

For  Desserts. 

Cream  Sauce 129 

Creamy  Sauce 129 

Devonshire  Cream 128 

Foamy  Sauce 129 

Hard  Sauce 131 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce 131 

Lemon  Sauce 130 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding     .    .    .  130 
Wine  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding   .  129 

Wine  Sauce •    .  130 

Wine  Sauce 130 

CAKE. 

Angel  Food 139 

Black    Cake,   To  make  ....  141 

Boiled  Icing 146 

Caramel  Cake 144 

Chocolate    Cake  •    • .  ■    .  145 

Chocolate    Icing 148 

Cocoanut  Drop  Cakes      ....  151 

Cookies 149 

Corn  Starch  Cake 139 

Cream  Drop  Cakes 151 

Cup  Cake 139 

Doughnuts 152 

Drop  Cakes 151 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes 151 

Feather    Cake       139 

Fruit  Cake 141 


INDEX. 


207 


Fruit  Cake 141 

Fruit  Cake 142 

Fruit  Cake 142 

Fruit  Cake 142 

Gen.  Lee  Cake 140 

Ginger  Bread,  Soft 148 

Ginger  Bread,  Soft 149 

Ginger  Bread,  Soft  ....  148 

Ginger  Cake,  Soft 148 

Hickory    Nut  Macaroons   .    .    .  152 

Indian  Meal  Cake •    .  140 

Instantaneous   Frosting    ....  147 

Jumbles 149 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake 146 

Lady  Cake 138 

Lunch  Cake      ....         ....  137 

Maple  Sugar  Icing 146 

Marshmallow  Filling 147 

Mocha  Cake,  No.  1 143 

Mocha  Cake,  No.  2 143 

Nut  Cakes 152 

Orange  Cake 144 

Orange  Filling 147 

Pistachio  Cake 140 

Plain  Cake        145 

Plain  Cake 145 

Plain  Cake 146 

Plain  Icing 147 

Sand  Tarts 150 

Sugar  Cakes 150 

Sugar  Cakes 150 

Sponge  Cake 138 

Sponge  Cake .  138 

Suggestions  on  Cake  Baking  .    .  137 
Taylor  Cakes 150 

BEVERAGES. 

Apple  Tod 160 

Apple  Toddy 160 

Blackberry  Wine 164 


Chocolate      158 

Chocolate      158 

Chocolate,  To  Prepare     ....  159 
Coffee,  Mixture  of   .....    .  157 

Coffee,  Boiled  . 157 

Coffee,  Filtered 158 

Coffee,  French 157 

Champagne  Cup 163 

Cherry  Cordial 163 

Cider  Cup 162 

Cider  Cup 163 

Claret  Cup 163 

Egg  Nogg 160 

Egg  Nogg 161 

Egg  Nogg 161 

Egg  Nogg     . 161 

Ginger  Beer 164 

Hock  Cup 161 

Hock  Cup 163 

Lemonade,  Indian  ...        .    .  159 

Mint  Julep 163 

Mansion  House  Loving  Cup  .    .  159 

Mulled  Wine 162 

Mulled  Wine         162 

Philadelphia  Fish  House  Punch.  159 

Punch 159 

Tea 158 

Tea,    Iced 158 

Tea  Punch 160 

PRESERVES  AND   PICKLES. 

Brandied    Peaches 171 

Brandied   Peaches 171 

Cantaloupe,     Sweet   Pickled  .    .  174 

Chili  Sauce 175 

Conserves 169 

Cucumber  Pickle 172 

Currants,  Spiced 171 

Currant  Jelly 169 

Ginger   Pears 171 


208 


INDEX. 


Green  Tomato  Pickle 172 

Mangoe  Pickles 173 

Martina  Pickles 173 

Orange  Marmalade 170 

Oysters,  Pickled 175 

Pear  Butter 170 

Quince    Jelly 169 

Strawberries,  To  Preserve    .    .    .  170 

Sweet    Pickle 174 

Tomato    Catsup 175 

Tomato  Sauce 176 

Walnut    Pickles 173 

Watermelon  Pickle 174 

CANDY. 

Almond  Candy 182 

Chocolate  Caramels 181 

Chocolate  Caramels 181 

Chocolate  Caramels 181 

Cocoanut  Bars 183 

Everton  Taffy 182 

Marshmallows 183 

Peanut  Taffy 182 

Taffy 182 

Taffy,  White 182 

Toffee 183 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Abbreviations VI 

Ants,  To  Drive  Away  .....  195 
Benzine  Cleaning  Fluid  ....  190 
Black  Lace  and  Net,  To  Wash  .  195 

Brass,  To  Clean 198 

Calico,  To  Set  the  Colors  in  .  .  194 
Carpets  and  Woolens,  To  Clean  .  191 

Chapped  Hands,  For 189 

Cleaning  Compound 190 

Cleaning  Fluid 191 


Cologne,  To  Make 189 

Covers  Off  Fruit  Jars,  To  Take  .  197 
Eggs  Until  Winter,  To  Keep  .    .  196 
Equivalents  of  Weights  in   Meas- 
ure       VII 

Flannel,  To  Wash 194 

Flowers  Fresh,  To  Keep  .  .  .  197 
Furniture  Bright,  Keeping  .  .  .  196 
Gilt,  To  Take  Spots  Off  .  .  .  .198 
Grease  Out  of  Carpets,  To  Take  .  195 
Indelible  Ink,  Marking  With  .    .  196 

Ink,  To  Take  Out 193 

Ink,  Out  of  Carpets,  To  Take  .  195 

Lye,  To  Make 192 

Matting,  To  Take  Spots  Out  of  .  195 
Mildew,   To  Take  Out  ....  190 

Mildew,  To  Remove 190 

Mould  on  Preserves,  To  Prevent  197 
Mutton  Suet,  To  Render     .    .    .  193 

Pot-Pourri 189 

Prints  or  Engravings,  To  Clean  .  196 
Rust  from  Knives    or   any    Steel, 

To  Remove 197 

Silver    Polish 197 

Soap,  To  Make  Hard 192 

Soap,  To    Make    Soft 192 

Tins,   To    Clean 198 

Velvet,  How  to  Steam  ...  190 
Wall  Paper,   English  Receipt  for 

Cleaning 191 

White  Clothes,    To  Take  Stains 

Out  of 193 

White  Paint,  To  Clean  ....  193 
White      Marble       Hearths,     To 

Clean 195 

White  Marble  Hearths,  To  Take 
Spots  Out   of 195 


Tlp>  first  NatitfnHl  Hunk, 

«     «    « 

(Eaptial  aurl  Surplus,         -        -         $1,250,000. 

«    «    « 

(Banter  Fifth  Jtonu*  and  TOanxl  Stmt. 
«     «     « 

©hartes  g.  Sp^r,  F.  fi.  SfceWing, 

PRESIDENT.  CASHIER. 

V/CE    PRESIDENT.  ASST.    CASHIER. 

*  «  ^ 


1|r  OCATED  right  in  the  heart  of  the  shopping 
^^,'  district,  with  a  dozen  lines  of  cars  passing 
the  door,  and  reaching  every  suburb  of  both 
cities. 


f 


Ladies  will  find  this  one  of  the  most  con- 
veniently located  banks  in  the  city  for  the  trans- 
action of  business. 

Home  and  shopping  accounts  will  receive 
prompt  attention  as  well  as  those  of  firms  and 
corporations. 


J.  Painter  &   Sons  Co. 


BOSTON.  CHICAGO. 

ESTABLISHED    1859. 

Howe,  Brown  &  Company,  Limited, 

MANUFACTURERS  OF 

FINE    STEEL. 


HOWE'S  TOOL  STEEL. 

HOWE'S  SPECIAL  TOOL  STEEL. 

HOWE'S  CRUCIBLE   CAST  SPRING  STEEL. 

CRUCIBLE  AND  OPEN   HEARTH  STEEL 
OF  ALL  DESCRIPTIONS. 

POLISHED  DRILL  RODS. 


OFFICE  AND  WORKS  — 

Penn  Avenue  and  Seventeenth  Street, 

PITTSBURG,  PA, 


Use  Our  Quaker  Cabinet. 

Enjoy  Turkish,  Russian,  Sulphur, 
Perfumed,  Thermal,  Medicated  and 
Vapor  Baths  in  the  privacy  of  your  room 
at  home  or  abroad  for  three  cents. 
Water  Baths  cleanse  the  outer  skin 
or  surface  only.  Makes  your  blood 
pure,  your  sleep  sound,  your  skin  soft, 
white  and  beautiful.  You  feel  younger, 
like  a  new  being.  Ladies  are  enthusiastic 
in  its  praise.  No  assistant  or  experience 
needed.      A  child  can  operate  it. 

DESCRIPTION.— Weight,  5  lbs.  Best 
made.  Germ-proof  and  water-proof  lined. 
Odorless,  antiseptic,  hygienic  cloth  exten- 
ded by  a  coppered  steel  frame.  Patented, 
thick.  Easily  carried.  Price,  complete,  including  heater,  valuable  formulas 
directions,  etc.,  $5.00.  Every  Quaker  Cabinet  is  guaranteed  by  us 
to  do  the  work  and  be  exactly  as  represented,  or  money 
refunded. 

J.     T.     McKENNAN, 

Druggist  and  Apothecary,  431  market  st 

W.  G.  SCH1RMER,  Manager. 


It  Produces  Cleanliness,  Health, 

Strength  and  a  Beautiful 

Complexion. 

Disp>els  Colds,  Fevers,  Skin 
Diseases  and  Eruptions,  Cures 
Rheumatism,  Sciatica,  Obes- 
ity, Neuralgia,  Bronchitis, 
Quinsy,  Eczema,  La  Grippe, 
Malaria,  Catarrh,  Head- 
aches, Female  Complaints, 
Pneumonia,  Piles,  Dropsy 
and  all  Blood,  Skin,  Nerve 
and  Kidney  Troubles. 
A  Hot  Springs  at  Home. 

Size,  folded,  15  in.  square,  3   in. 


PITTSBURG,    PA. 


Reserved. 


GEO.  K.  STEVENSON  &  CO., 

GROCERS. 

We  have  a  tempting  array  of  good  things  at  tempting  prices. 
We  particularly  invite  all  who  are  not  familiar  with  our  stores, 
to  visit  either  or  both,  and  see  how  attractive  food  stores  can  be 
made. 

We  have  always  felt  that  a  Grocery  Store  should  be  made 
inviting,  and  have  endeavored  to  make  ours  so,  not  only  in  the 
display  of  fine  goods,  but  in  prices  as  well. 


GEO.  K.  STEVENSON  &  CO., 

f Sixth  Ave.,  opp.  Trinity  Church, 
TWO  STORES :  |Centre  and  High|and  Aves.,  E.  E., 

PITTSBURG,  PA. 

REYMER  &  BROTHERS, 

508=512  Wood  Street, 

manufacturers  of  tbc  finest  ana  Choicest  Confectionery. 

To  send  a  box  of  "  Reymer's  Best  "  to  your  friends  would  be 
a  rare  treat  indeed,  and  no  doubt  highly  appreciated.  There  are 
many  would  be  imitators,  but  it  is  not  Reymer's.  It  may  be 
merely  a  matter  of  taste  to  some,  but  to  taste  "  Reymer's  Best  " 
you  will  at  once  admit  it  cannot  be  surpassed  in  richness  of 
flavors  and  fine  material. 

Special  attention  given  to  Luncheon  and  Dinner  Candies,  of 
which  we  make  a  fine  variety — Hats,  Baskets,  Rings,  Bow  Knots, 
Zig  Zags  and  other  novelties. 

Orders  will  receive  special  attention  and  prompt  delivery. 

REYMER'S. 


Cbe  Siegfried  Pharmacy, 


Corner  fiigMand  and  Centre  Avenues, 

telephone,  $00  6.  e. 


«     «     « 


Z7he  execution  of  {Prescription  Work  and  the 
compounding    of  Jfamily   receipts    Our    Specialty. 

We  carry  also  a  full  line  of  {Physicians*  Supplies 
and  Surgical  dressings,  {Bandages,  jCints,  Sauzes, 
Cottons,   jCiyatureSj   etc. 

Gvery  requisite  for  the  toilet  and  sick~room. 

{Peymer 's   ^ine    Confections. 

!Pure   Soda   1/Jater. 

Syrups    being    made    by    us    from    the   fresh    fruit. 


Reserved. 


JOS.  HORNE  &  CO. 

■■*§*■■ 

HOUSEFURNISHINGS. 

We  have  always  paid  a  great  deal  of  attention 
to  this  Department. 

We  put  it  in  the  basement,  simply  because 
there  is  abundance  of  room  down  there,  and  that  is 
what  a  department  of  that  kind  needs. 

You  will  find  anything  and  everything  in  the 
way  of  Household  Articles. 

Any  new  invention  for  making  labor  through- 
out the  house  easy  makes  its  way  very  quickly  to 
this  Department,  and  you  will  always  find  the 
new  devices,  as  well  as  the  old,  waiting  for  you. 

It  is,  perhaps,  the  most  complete  House- 
furnishing  Department  in  the  State. 


-*§*- 


Penn  Avenue  and  Fifth  Street. 


LOUIS  SCHULENBERG. 


J.  WII^IAM  PORTS. 


SCHULENBERG  &  PORTS, 

Riding,  Livery  and  Boarding  Stables, 

BELLEFONTE  ST.   AND   FIFTH  AVE. 

GOOD  SADDLE,  DRIVING  AND    COMBINATION   HORSES 

ALWAYS  ON  HAND  FOR  SALE-     ALSO,  HORSES 

SOLD  ON  COMMISSION. 

Instruction  in  Riding  and  Driving  given  by 


Telephone, 
Bellefield  266. 


CHARLES  A.  BISHOP, 
LOUIS  SCHULENBERG. 


JUNIATA  IRON  WORK. 

ESTABLISHED  1824. 

Shoenberger  Steel  Co. 

Manufacturers  of 

Pig  Metal,  Iron  and  Steel  Horse  and  Mule  Shoes, 

Open  Hearth  and  Bessemer  Steel,  Horse  Shoe  Bar,  Toe  Calks, 

Sheets,  Blooms,  Slabs  and  Billets,  Skelp,  Tin  Plate  Bar  and  Sheet  Iron. 
Fire  Box,  Boiler  and  Tank  Steel  Plates, 


J.  L.  D.  SPEER  <&  CO. 

v      BANKERS, y 


m 


First  National  Bank  Building, 

Pittsburg,  Pa 

255  Fifth  Avenue, 


HIGH  GRADE  BONDS  FOR  SAVINGS  BANKS  AND 
PRIVATE  INVESTORS. 

MEMBERS  OF  PITTSBURG  STOCK  EXCHANGE. 


ASSOCIATE   OFFICES: 

Members  of  New  York  Stock  Exchange. 

Members  of  Philadelphia  Stock  Exchange. 

Members  of  Baltimore  Stock  Exchange. 


Business  Paper  Discounted 

and  *f»       Long-  Distance  Telephone, 

Loans  made  on  4s  Pittsburg-  2229. 

Collateral.  


Established    1840. 


J.  C.  GROGAN, 

Jeweler, 


f 


Diamonds,  Rubies, 
Sapphires  and 
Pearls. 

RARE    SPECIMENS    IN    FANCY    GEMS. 

Experience  and  close  study  of  setting-  Jewels,  including 
finest  workmanship,  places  ray  stock  amongst  the  first  in  this 
country. 

The  Grog  an  Watch. 

When  you  are  interested  in  the  purchase  of  a  reliable  time- 
piece, don't  fail  to  consider  my  stock.  Comprises  every  variety. 
All  guaranteed. 

STERLING  SILVER  DINING  SERVICES. 

Complete  outfits  that  match  perfectly.  Shapes  and  styles 
not  surpassed  in  any  market.  The  variety  in  odd  single  pieces 
for  appropriate  gifts  can  not  be  described  in  this  space. 

TABLE  CUTLERY.  SILVER  MOUNTED  LEATHER  GOODS. 

HALL  CLOCKS. 

Sole  Agent  for  the  Tubular  Chime, 

PRIZE  CUPS. 

The  variety  collected  together  this  season  surpasses  any  ever 
brought  to  this  city. 

J.  C  GROGAN, 

443  Market  St.,  Cor.  Fifth  Ave.  PITTSBURG,  PA. 


Pittsburgh  Bank  for 
Savings, 


210  fourth  Avenue. 


«   «   « 


Assets  over  $3,400,000. 


«    «    « 


Tour  Per  £ent.  Interest  on 
time  Deposits. 


«     «     « 


Your  Account  Solicited. 

Eadies  are  guaranteed  prompt  and  courteous 
treatment. 

3ame$  $.  RUbn,  President 
aim.  3.  30Ue$,  treasurer. 


Reserved. 


JOS.  LOUGHREY  &  SON, 

MANUFACTURERS  AND  DEALERS  IN 

fiarness,  Saddles,  Bridles, 
Blankets,  Robes,  Collars,  WJbips, 
Crunks,  Satchels  and 
Crawlers'  Outfits,    «   «   *   « 

4=38  Wood  Street, 
Telephone  114.  PITTSBURG,   PA. 

JOS.  ElCHBAUM  &  CO., 

{Printers^    Stationers, 

£teet  and  Copper  SP/ate  £nt/ravers  and  SPrinters, 

^anct/  Soodsj 
jtfrtists'    Ttfaterials, 

242  FIFTH  AVENUE,  PITTSBURG,     PA. 


JOHN  T.  WRITT, 

Practical  Caterer, 

7225  Susquehanna  Street,  East  End, 

and  209  Fourth  Avenue, 

Room  4.  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

'PHONE.   PGH.  358. 


WE  HAVE  NO 
RESTAURANT  OR 
STALE  FOOD. 
NOTHING  KEPT  OVER 
OR  TAKEN   BACK 
FROM  YOUR 
RESIDENCE. 


We  are  prepared  to  furnish  Weddings,  Suppers,  Parties, 
Luncheons,  Teas,  Banquets,  etc. 

We  are  near  the  market  ;  everything-  is  fresh  cooked, 
delivered  and  served  to  order. 

We  make  a  specialty  of  Salads,  Timbals,  Croquets  and  Pattie 
Filling-  of  all  kinds. 

We  are  well  known  in  Allegheny  and  the  East  End.  And 
can  refer  you  to  many  ladies  in  both  cities. 


Respectfully, 


JOHN  T.  WRITT. 


GREENHOUSES, 

Boggs  Ave.,  Mt.  Washington. 


MARKET  STAND, 

No.  181  Allegheny. 


A.  W.    SMITH, 
tflorist, 


339  SIXTH  AVENUE. 


PITTSBURG,  PA 


BEAUTIFUL  PLANTS 

CHOICE  FRESH  FLOWERS.  .  .  . 
ARTISTIC  FLORAE  AND  PLANT 
DECORATIONS 


A.  W.  SMITH, 

Telephone  2280.  339  Sixth  Avenue. 


SOCIAL 
EVENTS, 


4 


■RECEPTIONS     and    Theatre    Parties 
desiring-  high-class   livery  service, 
will     find      our      equipment      eminently 
satisfactory. 


«^ 


/\UR  Park  Traps,  Carriages  and 
Broughams,  being  of  the  newest 
designs  and  most  approved  pattern,  and 
with  our  careful  liveried  drivers,  give 
the  style  and  finish  of  the  best  of 
private  turnouts. 


EXCELLENT  CARE  AND  ATTENTION    GIVEN  TO 
BOARDING   HORSES. 


RIDING  AND   DRIVING  TAUGHT. 


Schenley  Riding  Academy, 

Phone,  Bellefield  172.  BAYARD  AND  NEVILLE  STS. 


In  Medicine  and 

In  Food 

You  want  the  ingredients  fresh  and  pure.  With  two  up-to-date 
stores  in  excellent  locations,  our  advantages  for  handling  pure 
and  fresh  drugs  are  unexcelled. 

Our  candies  are  the  best  we  can  buy  ;  Reymer's,  Lowney's, 
Hershey's  and  Allegretti's. 

True  fruit  juices  and  distilled  water  used  in  our  Soda  Water. 

IMPORTED  AND  DOMESTIC  CIGARS. 

KAERCHER  DRUG  CO. 

62  Federal  St.,  Allegheny,  Pa.  4701  Fifth  Ave.,  cor.  Neville,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

ALLEGHENY,  4.        (TELEPHONES)  BELLEFIELD,  208. 

C  Reed  mcRnigbt, 

6a$,  Electric  and  Combination  fixtures. 

finest  Display  between 
new  York  ana  Chicago. 

CMrd  floor— CaR«  eiwator. 

Standard  Building, 
$ji  Ulood  Street. 


PERFECT  CATERING. 
PERFECT  PASTRY. 
PERFECT  ICES. 
PERFECT  ICE  CREAMS. 
PERFECT  SWEETMEATS. 

W.  R.  Kuhn  &  Coc 

E.  E. 

Tel.  158  6202  Penn  Avenue. 

679 

Every  Woman  is  Interested  _^ 

in  the  furnishing  of  the  Bath  Room. 

"Standard"  Bath 
Tubs  and  Plumbing- 
Fixtures  are  unequaled 
in  beauty,  strength  and 
durability. 

All  parts  are  ex- 
posed and  easily  ac- 
cessible. 

The  various  articles 
can  be  finished  to  match 
or  harmonize  with  the  surrounding's  and  all  details  are  carefully 
considered. 

"  S.  M.  Co."  is  cast  on  the  bottom  of  every  Bath,  affording 
protection  ag-ainst  the  substitution  of  inferior  g-oods. 

STANDARD  MANUFACTURING  CO. 
Catalogue  on  Application.  Pittsburg,   Pa. 


KNOX  SAILOR  HATS. 

The  established  superiority  of  Knox  Hats  was  never 

more  marked  than  it  is 
this  season. 

The  new  sailor  is  a 
marvel  of  stylish  ele- 
gance. 

Smooth  Braids,         .       $5.00 
Rough  Braids,     .  .     4. 00 

The  New  Jumbo  Braid,    4.00 

Knox  Sailors  are  sold  in  Pittsburg  only  by  us. 
None  is  genuine  without  the  Knox  trade  mark. 

Paulson  Sailors,  similar  to  the  Knox  in  shape, 
$2.50  and  $3,00. 

Splendid    display  of   Trimmed    Millinery  and 
Walking  Hats. 

PAULSON  BROS. 

441  WOOD  STREET. 


Reserved 


J.  R.  WELDIN  &  CO. 

429-431  Wood   Street,    . 

PITTSBURG,  PA. 


ENGRAVERS  OF. 


,^* 


Calling  Carbs, 
Invitations  to  Geae, 
IReceptions,  ©ancee,  . 
Banquets  ant>  Mefc&inge, 
flfconograms,  Hftbresses, 
Create  an  J)  Coats  of  Hrms, 


MAKERS   OF 


Gable  Car&s,  2)ance  programs,  & 

fIDenns  anfc  ifine  papers  for 
polite  Correspondence,    .    ♦    ♦ 


f 


ALL  THE  LATEST  EASTERN  IDEAS 


CARI,  A.  WUNDERI.Y.  AUGUST  WUNDERI.Y. 

WUNDERLY     BROS., 
ART     STORE. 

Etchings,    Engravings,    Water    Colors    and    Oil    Paintings, 
Picture  Frames  and  Mirrors. 

Regilding  Frames,  Repairing  and  Renovating  a  Specialty. 

No.  329  Sixth  Avenue, 

Next  to  Duquesne  Club.  PITTSBURG,    PA. 

ffine  tflowers.  Brtistfc  decorations. 

Randolph  &  McClements, 

jfloral  Experts- 

Tel.,  E.  E.  25.  South  Highland  Ave. 

Residence,  E.  E.  616.  and  Baum  St.,  E.  E. 

BUY  HAINES'  TRUNKS  - 

GEO.  S.  HAINES  CO., 

SOLE    MANUFACTURER, 

No.  528  Wood  Street,  PITTSBURG. 

Positively  no  Agents  or  Branch  Stores  in  Either  City. 


GOLF  SHOES      ^^— 


Sent/emen 

.  ,  .  AT  CAIN'S 


And  do  not  forget  we  are  NOT  on  the  Corner  now. 
Our  Number  is  503  MARKET  STREET. 


A  BOOM  TO  EAST  END  ! 

THE  C.  H.  ROWE  CO, 

Cor.  Penn  and  Highland  Aves. 


A  long-felt  want  is  at  last  filled.     Everything-  a  well-dressed 
man  or  woman  may    need   will    be    found    in    our  spacious  store 


rooms. 


"  COME,  SHOP  WITH  US." 

All  Car  Lines  pass  the  Door. 
"If  you  cannot  find  it   here,   there's  no  use  looking-  elsewher 


UPHOLSTERY 
EFFECTIVENESS 

Many  Draperies  and  Hangings  are  put  in  place  that 
entirely  wanting  in  effect-that  do  not  lend  the  apartir 
the  air  of  comfort  and  beauty  sought  for. 

HAVE    THEM    RIGHT. 

See  our  New  and  Stylish  Decorative  Fabrics,  and  let  us 
send  an  experienced  man  to  give  you  estimates  and  show 
you  designs— Modern  Designs,  that  produce  the  charm  that 
rich  hangings  should  give. 

E.    GROETZINGER, 

CARPETINGS  AND 

draperies.   .   .  627=629  Penn  Avenue. 

WI9 


>»  «• 


*fe    :": 


v*»o.>*  .«*' 


•.  *> 


tv  %!>.        ■  *  •        4."" 


jHK*  j^"\.  °<wgw*:  ♦**%  vSR**  ^%.  "•?? 
k*   *•;£&•>   yV;Sfc%    **&&*> 


*°*    . 


V     **   **     V 

'•  •  *  *     A 


"-   v 


;   W"  • 


"d>V 


v  >-  ^   •.«■  p>"  ./%  "°-^P-*  ^v% 


>'  \^?\^  \^££*j>*  *\f^\/' 


/••  ^°^  ••SIR"  ^  ;. 


y  .k*- 


,4<i 


°o/'T 


*« 


^%  -.^; /x  'Wj  j\_  °m^  * 

'o  p    ;' 
^    iWfo  *****  :W&    '-/  :'&&:  ^ 


'•♦    *0 


*0  .    »    *  ^ 


x..^  *« 


%/  :-aKl  ^/  --iSflBfifc  %..♦♦  V* 


/  V  '«R- .  ^v\ .  VHE."  .^  V  • 


.^'•*    ^c 


<*    *-T7T**  ^        ^* 


*     A 


*„-"? 


>  0"*«w*  touna 


