V 


r^ 


Lp 


o.NoSoo^ft/.^M 


^ 


3^ 


THE   VICTORY  COOKERY   BOOK 


BOOKS  BY  MRS,    C.    S,    PEEL 

WAR   RATION   COOKERY  (EATLESS 
MEAT  BOOK)  ~ 

THE  LABOUR  SAVING  HOUSE 

NOVELS: 
THE  HAT  SHOP 
MRS.  BARNET-ROBES 
A  MRS.  JONES 

THE  BODLEY  HEAD 


THE  VICTORY 
COOKERY   BOOK 


BY 

Mrs.    C.    S.    PEEL 

UNTIL  RECENTLY  DIRECTOR  OF  WOMEN'S  SERVICE, 
MINISTRY  OF  FOOD;  EDITOR  OF  LE  MANAGE  (''tHE 
queen");   DIRECTOR  OF  THE  "DAILY  MAIL  "  FOOD   BUREAU 

AND 

IWAN    KRIENS 

CULINARY    EXPERT    AND    FOOD    SPECIALIST  ;    MEMBER    OF    THE 

GORDON  ROUGE  (gOLDEN)  ORDER  OF  MERIT  FOOD  AND  COOKERY 

ASSOCIATION  ;     MANY    DIPLOMAS     OF     HONOUR    AND     SEVERAL 

MEDALS  ;   MEMBRE    DU   JURY,    PARIS   SALON   CULINAIRE 


WITH    A    FOREWORD 

BY  THE  RIGHT  HON.  J.  R.  CLYNES,  M.P. 

FOOD    CONTr'^I.LE^ 


LONDON     JOHN  LANE    THE  BODLEY  HEAD 
NEW  YORK     JOHN  LANE  COMPANY     MCMXVIII 


'■%\f''l^ 


PRINTED   BY  MORRISON   AND  GIBB   LTD.,   EDINBURGH 


A    FOREWORD 

BY  THE  RIGHT  HON.  J.  R.  CLYNES,  M.P. 

FOOD  CONTROLLER 

To  shun  waste,  to  get  out  of  our  foodstuffs 
the  full  measure  of  nourishment  —  these 
are  essential  principles  in  war-time  cookery ; 
and  I  should  like  to  see  the  w^ords  '^Make 
do  "  on  the  walls  of  every  kitchen  in  the 
land.  Good,  careful,  thrifty  cooking  adds 
attractiveness  to  food,  and  none  does  it 
concern  more  nearly  than  the  Food  Con- 
troller, whose  interest  it  is  to  see  that  food 
is  put  to  the  best  use.  A  book  which  helps 
to  that  end  should  be  widely  known.  Here 
the  good  housewife  (whose  goodwill  and  good 
temper  have  been  a  national  asset  in  these 
times  of  shadow  and  anxiety)  is  shown  the 
way  by  which  to  make  the  best  of  war-time 
foodstuffs. 

Let  us  remember  at  all  our  hearths  the 
bravery  of  the  men  who  through  perils  of  the 
seas  bring  food  to  our  shores.  Remember- 
ing that,  we  shall  practise  economy  in  a 
thankful  spirit. 


CONTENTS 

CHAP. 

I.  General   Notes    on    Food  :    Its    Value    and 
Preparation 

II.  Soups,  Stocks,  Gravy  and  Sauces 

III.  Fresh,  Dried  and  Freshwater  Fish 

IV.  Meat  Dishes  :  with  but  Little  Meat 
V.  Meatless  Dishes — Cereals,  Pulses,  etc. 

VI.  Vegetables,  Vegetable  Dishes  and  Salads 


3 

17 
51 

87 
115 
145 


VII.  Pastry,    Puddings    and    Sweets  :    with     but 

Little  Fat  or  Sugar      ,  .  .175 

VIII.  Egg  Dishes      .....     205 

IX.  Bread,  Cakes  and  Scones       .  .  .215 

X.  Sundries,    including    Pocket    Lunches    and 

Invalid  Dishes     ....     227 


CHAPTER    I 

GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD: 
ITS  VALUE  AND  PREPARATION 


Fools  can  waste:  it  needs  intelligence  to 
cook  economically. 


CHAPTER  I 

GENERAL  NOTES   ON  FOOD: 
ITS   VALUE  AND   PREPARATION 

The  Art  of  Making  Do 

The  object  of  this  Cookery  Book  is  to  help 
those  who  now  have  to  cater  and  cook  under 
circumstances  which  they  have  not  formerly 
experienced.  Conditions  with  regard  to  food 
change  almost  from  week  to  week,  and  the 
housekeeper  must  take  advantage  of  the 
market,  buying  intelligently  of  what  is 
offered  and  then  using  it  to  the  best  ad- 
vantage. The  art  of  substituting,  of  ''  mak- 
ing do,"  must  be  largely  practised ;  if  one 
material  cannot  be  obtained  then  another 
must  be  employed.  If  there  is  but  little 
meat,  then  we  must  turn  our  attention  to 
those  foods  which  best  take  its  place ; 
when  fat  is  difficult  to  procure  (the  most 
serious  loss  of  all),  we  must,  by  taking  full 
advantage  of  fatty  foods,  make  up  for  a 
lack  of  butter,  margarine  and  cooking  fats. 


4    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Economy  in  Material^  Fuel  and  Labour 

The  recipes  which  are  given  in  these  pages 
are  war  recipes,  framed  to  economise 
material,  and,  where  possible,  labour  and 
fuel;  but  as  regards  labour  every  cook  will 
realise  that  made  dishes,  such  as  are  now 
necessary,  require  more  time  and  attention 
than  the  roast  joint  and  plain  pudding  style 
of  cookery  so  prevalent  before  the  war. 


Various  Kinds  of  Waste 

The  recipes  here  given  are  lacking  neither 
in  nourishment  nor  in  attractive  appear- 
ance. The  latter  is  an  important  point, 
for  food  which  looks  nasty,  and,  therefore, 
is  not  eaten  with  the  good  appetite  which 
leads  to  good  digestion,  is  wasteful.  The 
word  "  waste  "  is  one  which  has  been  heard 
often  of  late,  and  truly  we  were  a  terribly 
wasteful  people,  for  not  only  did  we  throw 
food  fit  for  human  consumption  into  ash- 
bins  and  pig-tubs,  but  vast  quantities  of  it 
were  wasted  by  bad  or  improper  cooking 
and  by  careless  eating  and  treatment  at 
table.  Bread  was  crumbled  and  food  left 
on  plates.  Bones,  skin  and  gristle  should 
not    have   found   their    way    on   to    plates 


GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD         5 

thence  to  be  thrown  away,  but  have  come 
to  their  rightful  end  in  the  stock-pot.  In 
addition,  we  wasted  by  failing  to  masticate 
our  food  thoroughly,  and  therefore  allowed 
a  considerable  portion  of  it  to  pass  out  of 
the  body  undigested.  With  greater  know- 
ledge, care  and  skill,  and  an  understanding 
of  the  fact  that  there  is  nothing  to  be  proud 
of  in  waste  and  extravagance,  it  may  well 
come  to  pass  that  we  fare  better  though  we 
eat  less. 

Food  consists  of  five  important  parts  : 

1.  Proteid. 

2.  Carbohydrates. 

3.  Fats. 

4.  Minerals. 

5.  Water. 

Proteid 

Proteid  is  of  the  greatest  importance.  It 
is  essential  to  the  growth  of  the  young  and 
to  the  maintenance  of  the  frame  and  muscle 
of  our  bodies.  It  is  found  in  animal  as  well 
as  in  vegetable  foods.  Meat,  fish,  eggs, 
cheese  and  milk  are  animal  foods  and  nuts, 
pulses,  cereals  and  vegetables  are  vegetable 
foods.  The  proteid  contained  in  these  foods 
acts  in  more  or  less  the  same  manner,  but 


6    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

naturally  much  of  their  ultimate  value 
depends  on  the  method  of  their  preparation. 
All  these  foods  contain  water ;  some  lose 
part  of  this  in  the  cooking,  others  gain,  and 
some  gain  much  more  than  others. 

Carbohydrates  and  Fats 

Besides  the  proteid,  carbohydrates — ^viz. 
starch  and  sugar — are  present  in  most  foods, 
particularly  in  pulses  and  cereals ;  also  in 
fat.  These  foods  act  on  the  body  like 
fuel  on  a  fire ;  they  produce  heat  and 
energy. 

Starch  and  sugar  have  the  same  food  value. 
All  starch  must  be  changed  into  sugar 
before  it  can  be  absorbed  into  the  system. 
Fat  has  2  J  times  the  value  of  starch  or 
sugar  but  is  not  so  easily  digested. 

Minerals  and  Water 

Mineral  salts  are  present  in  all  foods; 
they  are  medicine  to  the  body,  keep  the 
blood  healthy,  and,  with  the  assistance  of 
water,  keep  the  system  clean. 

Protein  Foods 

The  foods  containing  a  high  proportion 


GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD         7 

of  protein  are  :  Nuts,  cheese,  meat  (lean), 
fish,  eggs,  lentils,  beans,  peas,  oatmeal, 
maize  and  wheat. 

Starch  Foods 

The  foods  containing  a  high  proportion 
of  starch  are  :  Arrowroot,  cornflour,  tapioca, 
sago,  rice,  barley,  wheat  flour,  macaroni, 
oatmeal,  pulses. 

Fat  Foods 

The  foods  rich  in  fat  are  :  Nuts,  bacon, 
meat,  cheese,  yolk  of  egg^  eels,  salmon, 
mackerel,  herring,  olives,  maize,  oatmeal. 

Minerals 

The  foods  rich  in  minerals  are  :  Cereals, 
vegetables  and  fruit. 

Sugar  in  Vegetables 

Th  vegetables  especially  rich  in  sugar 
are  :  Beetroot,  parsnip  and  carrot. 

Water 

There  is  more  water  in  meat  and  vege- 
tables than  in  cereals,  and  more  water  in 


8    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

a    marrow,   cucumber,   turnip   or    cabbage 
than  there  is  in  milk,  although  the  latter  is     | 
a  fluid  and  the  former  are  solids. 


Soups 

Soups  are  an  economical  food  because 
they  may  be  made  of  material  which  could 
not  well  be  utilised  in  any  other  way.  Meat 
stock  is  not  so  economical  as  vegetable, 
and,  unless  the  meat  is  served  with  the 
soup,  is  not  so  nourishing.  Vegetables  to- 
gether with  cereals  are  the  best  materials 
to  use  for  soup.  To  extract  the  flavour 
from  the  vegetables  they  should  always 
be  ''  stoved  ''  first,  then  the  water  added, 
and  cereals,  potatoes  or  pulse  added  to 
thicken.  Vegetables  by  themselves  do  not 
bind  a  soup ;  some  starch  substance  is 
necessary,  and  soups  (except  when  clear) 
should  always  be  of  a  fairly  thick  con- 
sistency. There  is  very  little  nourishment 
in  liquids,  however  expensive  they  may  be, 
and  a  clear  meat  stock  contains  no  more 
food  value  than  a  clear  vegetable  stock. 

Stock  made  from  meat  and  bone  is  ex- 
pensive in  the  use  of  fuel,  whereas  vegetable 
stock  is  quickly  made  and  the  vegetables 
are    available    for    other    dishes    after  the 


GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD         9 

stock  has  been  extracted — a  fact  which  the 
recipes  in  this  book  amply  illustrate. 

Purees 

In  purees  (that  is  soups  passed  through  a 
sieve)  the  use  of  a  mincing  machine  is  ad- 
vocated instead,  because  this  method  saves 
labour  and  sieves.  Purees  should  always 
be  finished  by  a  slight  additional  thickening, 
viz.  1  teaspoonful  of  corn  or  potato  flour 
mixed  smoothly  in  milk  or  water,  to  each 
quart  of  soup,  added  at  the  last  moment 
and  boiled  once.  This  will  prevent  the 
thickening  from  sinking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pan,  which  it  would  otherwise  do. 

Too  many  ingredients  should  not  be  used 
in  one  soup  ;  the  flavour  should  be  distinct. 
Four  oz.  of  onion  or  leek  and  |  lb.  of  vege- 
tables, together  with  1  oz.  fat  and  1  to  2  oz. 
of  cereals,  will  make  1  quart  of  good  vege- 
table soup.  To  finish,  1  gill  of  milk  and 
1  teaspoonful  of  flour  must  be  added  for 
the  final  thickening.  Soups  should  not 
overcook  ;  the  flavour  will  be  spoiled  and 
unnecessary  fuel  used. 

Fish 

Fish  is  a  food  of  high  value.     The  most 


10    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

nutritious  are  salmon,  herring,  sprats, 
mackerel,  eels  and  shad.  Fish  should  not 
be  boiled.  Cooked  thus  it  loses  much  of  its 
nutriment,  which  is  washed  out  into  the 
water.  Boiled  fish  also  loses  its  flavour. 
The  best  methods  of  cooking  fish  are  steam- 
ing, baking  and  "  stoving,"  stewing  or  frying. 

Meat 

There  is  about  75  per  cent,  of  water  in 
meat,  some  of  which  evaporates  in  the  cook- 
ing ;  therefore  the  meat  weighs  less  after 
cooking,  but  its  value  as  a  food  has  increased. 
Cooked  meat  becomes  a  concentrated  food, 
which  should  be  used  as  sparingly  as  possible. 
As  a  nation  we  have  hitherto  eaten  too 
generously  of  meat.  There  is  always  fat 
present  in  the  meat  (even  when  it  is  what  is 
termed  lean)  of  a  healthy  animal,  so  that 
when  we  cook  meat  a  certain  amount  of 
fat  will  become  available  for  use  with  fatless 
foods,  such  as  vegetables,  fresh  or  dried. 

Eggs 

Eggs  are  dear,  but  the  dried  eggs  now 
placed  on  the  market  are  excellent  food  value. 
They  can  be  used  in  the  same  manner  as 
fresh  eggs,  but  care  must  be  taken  not  to 


4 

i 


GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD       11 

add  too  much  water,  otherwise  they  separate. 
The  correct  amount  is  generally  three  times 
as  much  water  as  egg  by  weight.  If  a  dried 
egg  is  needed  in  a  hurry,  soak  in  warm  water 
on  the  stove,  and  when  the  egg  begins  to 
rise  beat  it  up  well  over  heat. 

Cheese 

Cheese,  raw  or  cooked,  is  a  concentrated 
food,  and  should  be  used  most  carefully. 
It  contains  a  large  amount  of  fat,  about 
30  per  cent,  more  or  less,  so  to  eat  any 
other  fat  with  cheese  is  extravagant  and  un- 
necessary. 

MUk 

Milk  should  be  used  sparingly  by  adults  ; 
it  is  the  food  for  children.  There  is  about 
3|  per  cent,  fat  and  3|  per  cent,  proteid 
present  in  milk.  Some  people  regard  milk 
merely  as  a  drink,  but  it  is  a  food,  and  after 
it  has  been  swallowed  the  casein  becomes 
solid.  Blended  with  well -cooked  starchy 
food,  milk  is  an  ideal  food  for  the  nursery. 

Nuts 

Nuts  contain  a  large  amount  of  proteid 
and  fat ;   they  should  be  chopped  or  grated 


12    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

finely  and  mixed  with  other  food  poor  in 
both  these  properties.  Slightly  grilled,  they 
increase  in  flavour. 


Pulses 

Pulses  should  not  be  boiled  in  water ; 
such  a  method  is  too  expensive  in  fuel 
and  they  absorb  too  much  water,  thereby 
enormously  decreasing  their  value  as  a  food. 
The  best  method  is  to  soak  them  until  they 
have  absorbed  sufficient  water  to  fully  ex- 
pand them,  and  then  to  steam  them.  In 
this  manner  they  do  not  absorb  more  than 
their  own  weight  of  water,  thereby  retaining 
a  high  food  value.  They  should  be  eaten 
with  food  containing  fat,  or  cooked  with 
some  fat,  as  they  are  deficient  in  that  parti- 
cular food.  They  are  the  substitute  for  meat 
of  the  vegetarian,  and  with  fat  or  the  addition 
of  meat  gravy  they  must  now  be  employed 
by  everyone  to  assist  in  economising  meat. 
Some  people  suffer  from  flatulence  after 
eating  pulses,  owing  to  the  sulphur  they 
contain  ;  if,  however,  potato  or  rice  is  eaten 
at  the  same  time  this  trouble  may  be  avoided. 

Also,  many  persons  digest  pulses  which 
have  been  sieved  who  find  it  difficult  to  digest 
them  when  served  whole. 


GENERAL  NOTES  ON  FOOD       13 

Cereals 

Cereals  are  amongst  the  cheapest  foods 
available.  Nearly  all  foods,  except  cereals, 
contain  a  large  amount  of  water.  Cereals 
require  water  added  in  order  to  cook  them. 
The  smallest  amount  necessary  for  this 
purpose  is  the  weight  of  the  cereal.  Some 
cereals,  however,  absorb  much  more  than 
others,  taking  as  much  as  four  to  five  times 
their  weight  in  moisture. 

The  more  moisture  absorbed  in  the  cooking 
the  lower  the  food  value,  for  water  has  no 
feeding  value. 

All  cereals  should  be  well  but  not  over 
cooked,  and  need  to  be  thoroughly  masticated. 

New  and  Revised  Methods  of  Cooking 

Now  that  it  is  so  necessary  to  economise 
fuel  as  well  as  food,  our  methods  of  cooking 
must  be  revised. 

Various  little  known  methods  are  sug- 
gested in  this  book,  because  they  are 
economical  of  fuel  and  of  labour  as  well  as 
of  food ;  and  although  good  results  were 
obtained  in  former  days  from  other  styles 
of  cookery,  now  we  can  only  practise  those 
which  are  economical. 


14    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Casserole  cooking  is  highly  to  be  recom- 
mended, if  for  one  reason  only,  which  is,  that 
the  food  being  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  cooked,  washing-up  is  saved.  For  the 
same  reason  advantage  should  be  taken  of 
the  many  attractive  fireproof  dishes  now  on 
the  market. 

Sweating 

Sweating  means  cooking  very  slowly  in  a 
covered  pan  so  that  the  moisture  in  the  food 
is  extracted  and  then  evaporates,  while  it 
helps  to  cook  the  food. 

Fat  and  Oil 

When  oil  is  not  procurable,  use  clarified 
fat,  or  vice  versa. 


CHAPTER    II 
SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY  AND  SAUCES 


»5 


A  bad  cook  wUl  spoil  the  best  materiaL 


x6 


CHAPTER    II 
SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY  AND  SAUCES 


^/ 


^  \  Soups 

In  these  days  meat  soups  (unless  the  "pot- 
au-feu  or  the  Scotch  broth,  which  is  meat 
and  soup  in  one)  cannot  be  permitted ; 
therefore,  when  a  clear  soup  is  required,  it 
must  be  a  clear  vegetable  soup  (see  p.  22). 
All  bones,  gristle  and  skin,  however,  should 
be  used  for  stock  in  which  to  cook  cereals 
and  pulses,  and  to  make  a  foundation  for 
thick  soups,  gravies  and  sauces. 

A  thick  soup  is  a  good  beginning  to  a 
meatless  dinner,  and,  provided  there  is  a  good 
supply  of  vegetables,  a  clever  cook  will  seldom 
find  herself  unable  to  serve  an  appetising  soup. 

When  bread  is  mentioned,  rice  or  dump- 
lings might  in  many  cases  take  its  place. 

Bone  Stock 

If  bones,  raw  or  cooked,  are  available  for 
stock,  break  them  small,  place  in  cold  water, 


18    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

allowing  about  1  quart  water  to  1  lb.  of  bone, 
and  for  every  quart  of  stock  to  be  produced 
add  I  oz.  of  salt.  Bring  to  the  boil  and 
skim,  then  simmer  on  a  slow  fire  with  the 
lid  on  the  pan  until  all  gristle  and  meat 
adhering  to  the  bones  falls  off  easily.  This 
may  take  as  long  as  12  hours  in  the  case  of 
beef  bones,  4  hours  for  veal  bones,  2  hours 
for  chicken  bones ;  it  is  therefore  impossible 
to  give  one  time  for  stock-making.  Vege- 
tables should  be  added  only  during  the  last 
hour  of  simmering,  for  if  they  were  allowed 
to  cook  for  as  long  as  the  bones  their  flavour 
would  be  entirely  lost,  and  they  would 
be  useless  for  other  purposes.  Vegetables 
added  during  the  latter  part  of  the  cooking 
flavour  the  stock  fully,  and  are  then  still 
available  for  the  table  either  as  they  are  or 
in  pies,  salad,  etc. 

The  correct  quantities  of  vegetables  to  use 
per  quart  of  stock  produced  are  2  oz.  carrot, 
1|  oz.  turnip,  2  oz.  onion  stuck  with  a  clove, 
2  oz.  leek,  |  oz.  celery  and  J  oz.  of  parsnip, 
also  1  dozen  peppercorns  and  a  savoury 
faggot  of  half  a  bay  leaf,  an  equal  amount  | 
of  thyme  and  about  |  oz.  of  parsley  stalks 
tied  together. 

Trimmings  of  vegetables  should  be  used 
for  stock,  but  only  such  as  will  not  destroy 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    19 

the  stock  flavour.  Carrot  trimmings  or  peel- 
ings, outside  pieces  of  celery,  are  good,  and 
even  onion  peeling  may  be  used.  The  green 
tops  of  celery  should  be  carefully  used,  or 
the  flavour  would  overpower  all  the  other 
flavours.  The  peelings  of  turnip  are  useless 
for  stock,  and  the  dark  green  of  the  leeks 
would  also  destroy  all  other  flavours.  This 
also  applies  in  the  preparation  of  vegetable 
stock. 

When  the  stock  is  finished  the  fat  should 
always  be  skimmed  off  first  and  carefully 
placed  in  a  basin  with  water,  left  until  cold, 
then  removed  and  cleared  for  use.  The 
stock  is  then  strained. 

All  gristle  and  meat  must  be  carefully 
taken  off  the  bones,  and  should,  when 
spiced  and  seasoned,  be  used  for  patties, 
pies  and  potted  meat,  so  that  nothing 
whatever  is  wasted.  There  is  a  good  deal 
of  food  value  in  this  gristle,  and  yet  more 
often  the  stock,  with  hardly  any  nutriment, 
is  used  and  the  remainder  is  thrown  away 
as  waste. 

This  stock  is  then  available  for  soups  and 
sauces,  and  can  be  used  in  any  of  the  recipes 
mentioned,  instead  of  water,  to  the  ad- 
vantage of  the  dish  both  as  regards  flavour 
and  nutriment. 


20    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Fish  Stock 

To  make  a  quart  of  fish  stock,  place  in 
a  saucepan  a  Httle  oil  or  fat,  then  2  oz.  of 
sliced  onion,  half  a  bay  leaf,  an  equal  amount 
of  thyme,  a  dozen  peppercorns  (crushed), 
1  clove,  some  mace  the  size  of  a  pea  and 
I  oz.  parsley  stalks.  Place  on  this  1  lb. 
fish  bones,  sprinkled  lightly  with  salt  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  cover  with  the 
lid  of  the  pan,  and  cook  gently  until  the 
juice  from  the  fish  bones  is  extracted,  then 
make  up  the  quantity  of  liquid  to  1  quart. 
Simmer  for  10  to  15  minutes,  then  strain 
the  liquor,  draining  well  to  extract  it  all. 

Place  the  fish  bones  on  a  dish  to  cool, 
and  if  there  is  any  fish,  carefully  pick  it 
off  with  a  fork  and  use  for  fish  cakes.  One 
lb.  of  bones  sometimes  gives  2  or  3  oz.  of  fish. 

Vegetable  Stock 

(For  Soup  or  for  a  Foundation  for 
Gravy  or  Sauce) 

Materials. — Carrots,  turnips,  onions,  leeks, 
celery,  cabbage  (1  lb.  of  these  vegetables 
mixed),  |  oz.  fat  (if  possible  allow  1  oz.  of 
fat),  J  oz.  salt. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    21 

Method. — Cut  the  vegetables  in  small 
blocks  about  |  inch  square.  Place  the  fat 
in  the  pot,  add  the  vegetables  and  salt, 
cover  with  a  lid  and  place  over  a  very  gentle 
heat.  Stew,  stirring  from  time  to  time 
until  the  vegetables  become  quite  tender. 
Remove  the  lid,  and  when  the  fat  is  clear 
and  a  sediment  has  formed  at  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  similar  to  the  dried  gravy  which 
forms  in  the  tin  when  roasting  meat,  cover 
the  vegetables  with  1  quart  of  water  and 
bring  slowly  to  the  boil.  Do  not  stir,  as 
that  would  cloud  the  stock.  Let  the 
mixture  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Drain 
the  stock  well  so  that  all  the  liquid  filters 
through  the  vegetables.  Stand  for  a  few 
minutes  to  allow  the  fat  to  rise,  and 
carefully  skim  it,  reserving  it  for  future 
use. 

The  stock  will  be  perfectly  clear,  not 
unlike  meat  stock,  except  that  it  is  sweeter, 
which  many  people  like,  but  which  if  neces- 
sary can  be  counteracted  by  adding  a 
tablespoonful  of  Worcester  sauce* 

The  vegetables  must  not  be  thrown  away 
but  employed  for  vegetable  cutlets,  pies,  or  to 
serve  with  meat. 

.Vegetables  cooked  in  this  manner  have  a 
far  better  flavour  even  after  the  stock  has 


22    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

been  extracted,  than  when  boiled  in  water 
in  the  usual  way. 

Treated  as  described,  1  lb,  of  mixed  vege- 
tables and  1  oz.  of  fat  provide  soup  and 
the  main  part  of  a  vegetable  dish.  The 
stock  should  be  used  in  the  making  of 
sauces  in  place  of  meat  stock. 

This  stock  may  be  thickened  by  using 
corn  or  potato  flour  mixed  smoothly  in 
cold  stock  and  then  added  by  degrees  to 
the  boiling  stock. 

Clear  (Vegetable)  Soup 

This  stock  can  be  used  for  all  clear  soups 
by  adding  whatever  garnish  is  desired. 

Vegetable  Gravy 

A  gravy  can  be  made  by  frying  the 
peelings  of  carrot  and  onion  and  a  sprig  of 
celery  together  in  a  little  fat.  When  nicely 
coloured  add  a  bunch  of  savoury  herbs,  cover 
with  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
simmer  for  15  minutes.  Strain,  and  if  too 
sweet  add  a  little  Worcester  sauce  or  vinegar. 

Brown  Vegetable  Sauce  or  Gravy 
Materials. — |  oz.  fat,  1  oz.  flour,  Ij  pint 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    23 

of  vegetable  stock,  1  tablespoonful  of 
Worcester  sauce. 

Method. — Fry  the  flour  in  the  fat  until  it 
becomes  nut-brown.  Let  it  cool,  and  then 
add  the  vegetable  stock.  Stir  until  boiling- 
point  is  reached,  then  add  the  Worcester 
sauce  and  simmer  very  gently  for  about 
15  minutes.  The  fat  used  will  rise  to  the 
surface,  and  must  be  skimmed  off  and  added 
to  the  store  of  cooking  fat. 

This  preparation  tastes  and  looks  like  a 
meat  gravy. 

For  sauce  boil  the  stock  down  until  the 
thickness  desired  is  reached ;  season  to 
taste,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use.  When 
sauces  are  made  in  this  way  there  will  be 
no  lumps,  and  straining  is  not  necessary, 
except  when  a  skin  is  allowed  to  form  after 
cooking  is  finished. 

If  available  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato 
puree  or  one  or  two  fresh  tomatoes  can  be 
added,  or  the  sauce  may  be  varied  by 
adding  a  spoonful  or  two  of  chutney,  mixed 
pickles,  mushrooms,  etc. 

Meat  Gravy  (Stoved) 

Slice  or  shred  1  or  2  oz.  of  fat,  place  it 
at  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan,  cover  with  2  to 


24     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

4  oz.  sliced  onion  and  then  |  lb.  trimmings 
of  meat  or  slices  of  shin  or  ox  cheek. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  a  lid,  place 
over  gentle  heat  and  allow  the  contents  to 
sweat  so  that  the  meat  throws  out  its 
moisture.  Continue  to  simmer  until  cooked ; 
turn  from  time  to  time  until  the  moisture 
evaporates  and  the  whole  is  thoroughly 
brown.  If  the  evaporation  is  too  rapid 
add  from  time  to  time  a  tablespoonful  of 
water,  but  not  more.  Add  1  pint  of  cold 
water,  bring  to  the  boil  and  simmer  for 
15  minutes,  but  do  not  stir,  otherwise  the 
gravy  will  be  cloudy.  Strain  the  gravy, 
let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  remove 
all  the  fat,  which  should  be  added  to  the 
cooking  fat  and  afterwards  purified  ready 
for  further  use. 

This  gravy  is  available  for  all  sauces  and 
vegetable  dishes.  The  remaining  meat,  with 
onion  and  fat,  can  be  used  for  pies,  curries, 
stews,  etc. 

Meat  prepared  in  this  way  instead  of 
stewed  retains  its  flavour  and  produces  a 
much  larger  amount  of  gravy,  which  can  be 
utilised  to  serve  with  dumplings,  potatoes, 
pulses  or  vegetables. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    25 

SOUPS 
Pot-au-Feu  made  with  Ox  Cheek 

(A  Soup  and  a  Meat  Dish) 

Materials. — 1  lb.  ox  cheek,  J  lb.  carrots, 

1  lb.  cabbage,  6  oz.  turnips,  4  oz.  shredded 
bread,  4  oz.  onion,  2  oz.  celery,  ^  oz.  salt, 

2  quarts  of  water,  2  leeks,  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Method. — Cut  the  ox  cheek  into  six  slices, 

place  in  the  boiling  water,  add  salt,  and 
simmer  for  1  hour.  Then  add  the  carrots, 
turnips,  cabbage,  leeks,  onion  and  celery, 
and  cook  until  done.  Remove  the  vege- 
tables. Dish  up  the  meat,  garnish  with  the 
best  parts  of  the  vegetables,  cut  the  re- 
mainder small  and  return  to  the  liquid, 
season,  and  add  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Toast 
the  shredded  bread  in  the  oven  and  serve 
separately,  or  add  to  the  soup  before  serving, 
or  prepare  dumplings  and  add  them  to  the 
soup  and  boil  for  10  minutes. 

Serve  the  soup  first,  then  the  meat  and 
vegetables,  with  steamed  potatoes  in  their 
jackets. 

Farmers'  Soup 

Materials. — J  lb.  mixed  vegetables,  |  lb. 
sliredded  potatoes,  2  oz.  toasted  bread, 
J  oz.  salt,  quarter-teaspoonful  freshly  ground 


26    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

pepper,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  1 
quart  of  water,  1  oz.  fat. 

Method. — Place  the  fat  in  a  saucepan  to 
melt,  then  shred  the  vegetables  and  add 
these  to  the  fat  but  do  not  mix.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  cover.  Let  the  vege- 
tables cook  over  a  gentle  heat  until  the 
water  contained  in  the  vegetables  flows, 
then  mix  with  a  spoon.  Let  the  mixture 
evaporate  until  the  vegetables  take  a  very 
light  colour  at  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan, 
then  cover  with  the  water  and  salt  and  boil. 
Add  the  potatoes,  and  boil  until  the  whole 
is  tender.  Toast  the  shredded  bread  and 
place  in  a  soup  tureen,  adding  the  pepper. 
Taste  the  soup,  correct  the  seasoning  if 
necessary,  and  pour  over  the  bread,  adding 
the  chopped  parsley. 

Dumplings  may  be  added  to  the  soup 
instead  of  bread,,  or  small  savoury  balls. 

The  reader  will  observe  that  the  pepper  is 
not  cooked  but  added  just  at  the  last. 

Onion  Soup 

Materials. — 1  oz.  fat,  4  oz.  onion,  \  oz. 
flour,  1  quart  water,  3  oz.  bread,  2  oz.  cheese 
(grated),  J  oz.  salt. 

Method. — Shred  the  onion  and  fry  in  the 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    27 

fat  to  a  light  colour.  Add  the  flour,  and  bake 
together  until  a  nice  brown.  Add  the  water 
and  salt  and  cook  for  15  minutes.  Cut  the 
bread  in  slices  |  inch  thick  and  toast ;  place 
these  in  an  earthenware  casserole,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  and  pour  the  soup  over. 
(The  onion  may  be  removed  and  used  else- 
where.) Sprinkle  again  with  grated  cheese 
and  bake  in  the  oven  until  of  a  golden  brown. 

Cabbage  and  Onion  Soup 

Materials. — J  lb.  cabbage,  J  lb.  potatoes, 
2  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  shredded  bread, 
I  oz.  salt,  3  pints  of  water,  pepper  to  taste. 

Method. — Cut  the  onion  into  halves,  shred 
crossways  and  fry  in  the  fat.  Cut  the 
cabbage  in  four,  remove  outside  leaves  and 
stalk,  wash  and  drain  thoroughly,  shred 
finely,  add  to  the  onion,  and  "  sweat ''  for 
10  to  15  minutes.  Add  the  potatoes,  salt 
and  water  and  cook  for  30  minutes,  then 
add  the  bread,  and  a  little  pepper  if  liked. 
In  place  of  the  bread  1  oz.  of  rice  can  be 
used,  picked,  washed  and  parboiled  and 
added  to  the  soup  15  minutes  before  serving, 
or  1  oz.  vermicelli  parboiled  and  added  5 
minutes  before  serving,  or  macaroni  broken 
into  2-inch  pieces  parboiled  and  then  cooked 
for  20  minutes. 


28    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Minestroni 

Materials. — |  lb.  vegetables,  2  oz.  French 
beans,  2  oz.  fresh  peas,  2  oz,  macaroni  or 
rice,  2  oz.  cheese,  3  pints  of  water,  J  oz. 
salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil. 

Method.— Heeit  the  oil  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  vegetables  finely  shredded  and  fry  all 
together  slightly.  Cover  with  the  water, 
add  the  salt  and  cook  till  nearly  done.  Then 
add  the  peas  and  French  beans  cut  up  and 
cook  until  done.  (In  winter  use  haricot 
beans  and  split-peas  (soaked)  and  add  at 
the  same  time  as  the  other  vegetables.) 
Fifteen  minutes  before  the  finish  add  the 
macaroni  or  rice,  or  1  oz.  of  each.  Before 
serving,  skim  the  soup  and  add  the  following 
preparation  :  1  oz.  raw  fat  bacon,  scraped 
as  beef  is  scraped  for  beef-tea,  1  tea- 
spoonful  fresh  herbs,  pepper,  a  clove  of 
garlic. 

Mix  the  bacon  with  the  herbs  and  a  pinch 
of  pepper  and  the  clove  of  garlic.  Stir 
until  thoroughly  melted,  and  then  serve  at 
once.     Omit  the  garlic  if  not  liked. 

Freshly  grated  cheese  is  handed  with  the 
soup,  or  2  oz.  may  be  added  to  the  soup  with 
the  bacon. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    29 

Cabbage  and  Potato  Soup 

Materials. — 4  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  |  lb. 
cabbage,  J  lb.  raw  sliced  potatoes,  J  oz.  salt, 
1  quart  of  water,  2  oz.  toasted  and  shredded 
bread. 

Method. — Shred  the  onion  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  fat.  Add  the  shredded 
cabbage,  and  "  sweat  "  all  together  until  it 
begins  to  set  at  the  bottom  (see  recipe  for 
Vegetable  Stock,  p.  20).  Then  add  the  raw 
potatoes.  Cover  with  the  w^ater,  add  salt, 
and  cook  until  tender  (from  30  minutes  to 
1  hour).  Season  to  taste,  and  serve  with  the 
toasted  and  shredded  bread. 

Vegetable  Puree 

Materials. — |  lb.  vegetables,  |  pint  of 
cooked  pulse  or  2  oz.  raw  rice,  1  quart  of 
water,  J  oz.  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  potato  or 
corn  flour,  1  gill  of  milk. 

Method. — ''  Sweat  "  the  vegetables  as 
directed  in  farmers'  soup  (see  p.  25). 
When  ready,  add  the  cooked  pulse  or  raw 
rice,  cover  with  w^ater,  add  salt,  and  cook 
for  30  minutes.  Drain  the  liquor  off  the 
vegetables  and  pass  the  drained  vegetables 
and  rice  or  pulse  through  a  mincing-machine, 
and   then   return   to   the    liquid.     Mix  the 


30    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

potato  or  corn  flour  smoothly  in  the  milk, 
bring  the  soup  to  the  boil,  then  add  the 
thickened  milk  and  bring  to  the  boil  again. 
Taste  and  correct  the  seasoning,  adding 
a  little  freshly  ground  pepper  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cooked  rice  or  any  other  garnish. 


Mulligatawny  Soup 

Materials. — 4  oz.  shredded  onion,  1  oz. 
fat,  I  oz.  curry  powder,  2  oz.  rice,  1  oz. 
chopped  chutney,  J  oz.  salt,  1  or  2  tomatoes, 
1  small  sour  apple,  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs, 
half  a  lemon,  3  or  4  crushed  cardamon  seeds, 
1  quart  of  water  or  stock,  1  teaspoonful 
of  corn  flour,  1  tablespoonful  cooked  rice  for 
garnish. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  with  the  fat, 
and  as  soon  as  the  onion  begins  to  cook  add 
the  curry  powder  and  fry  together.  Cover 
with  the  water  or  stock,  add  the  rice, 
chutney,  tomatoes,  the  apple  cut  finely, 
cardamon  seeds,  herbs  and  salt.  Cook  for 
30  to  40  minutes.  Drain  off  the  liquid, 
pass  the  drained  material  through  a  mincer, 
return  to  the  liquid  and  thicken  with  the 
corn  flour.  Taste  and  correct  the  seasoning, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  and  garnish  with 
cooked  rice. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    31 

Salsify  and  Barley  Soup 

Materials. — 3  oz.  pearl  barley,  4  oz.  onion, 
1  oz.  fat,  I  oz.  salt,  half  a  bundle  of  salsify, 
half  a  lemon,  1  gill  of  milk,  faggot  of  savoury 
herbs,  1  quart  of  water. 

Method. — Soak  the  barley  for  24  hours, 
''  Sweat  "  the  onion  and  fat  in  a  saucepan 
and  cover  with  water.  Add  the  soaked 
barley,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  then  add  the 
salt  and  herbs.  Scrape  and  wash  the  salsify, 
cut  into  chips,  and  place  in  the  soup  with  the 
lemon  juice  ;  cook  till  tender — about  1  hour 
or  more.  Drain  the  liquid ;  pick  out  1 
tablespoonful  of  barley  and  also  1  dozen 
or  more  salsify  chips,  pass  the  remainder 
through  a  mincing-machine  and  return  to  the 
soup.  Add  the  milk,  correct  the  seasoning, 
and  put  the  reserved  barley  and  salsify  into 
the  soup. 

Marrow  Soup 

Materials. — 4  oz.  shredded  onion,  1  oz. 
fat,  2  oz.  maize  semolina,  1  lb.  vegetable 
marrow,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  water,  a 
pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — "  Sweat  "  the  onion  in  the  fat, 
add  the  vegetable  marrow  cut  into  slices, 
cover  and  simmer  till  the  marrow  is  melted. 


32     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Now  cover  with  the  milk  and  water,  add  the 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  and  maize  semolina. 
Cook  for  30  minutes,  and  serve  with  toasted 
shredded  bread. 

Celery  Soup 

Materials. — I  lb.  celery  (outside  pieces), 
4  oz.  onion,  12  oz.  shredded  potatoes,  1 
quart  of  water,  J  oz.  salt,  ^  pint  milk,  1 
teaspoonful  corn  flour,  1  teaspoonful  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  some  shredded  bread. 

Method.  — Trim  the  celery  by  skinning  the 
outside  with  an  economic  vegetable  knife 
to  remove  the  strings,  and  shred  finely. 
''  Sweat  "  it  with  the  onion,  add  the  potatoes, 
water  and  salt,  and  cook  until  done.  Finish 
with  the  milk  in  which  the  corn  flour  has  been 
smoothly  mixed,  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes.  Correct  the  seasoning,  add  the 
parsley,  and  serve  with  shredded  bread. 

O'Connor  Soup 

Materials. — A  bunch  of  leeks,  1  oz.  fat, 
2  oz.  arrowroot,  1  pint  milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 
1  teaspoonful  parsley,  1  quart  water,  |  oz. 
salt,  a  little  nutmeg  and  pepper. 

Method. — Cut  the  white  part  of  the  leeks 
into    strips.     The    remainder    (except    the 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    33 

green  parts,  which  are  too  strong  to  use)  boil 
in  the  water,  and  when  cooked,  pass  through 
a  strainer.  "  Sweat  "  the  strips  of  leek  in 
the  fat  without  colouring  them,  then  cover 
with  the  water  in  which  the  leeks  were 
boiled.  Add  salt.  Mix  the  arrowroot 
smoothly  with  the  milk,  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  nutmeg  and  pepper.  When  the  soup 
is  ready  and  is  reduced  to  1  pint,  add  the 
thickened  milk,  etc.,.  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  creamy,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  the 
parsley,  and  serve  with  sippets  of  bread. 

Pea-Pod  Soup 

Materials. — |  peck  of  peas,  1  oz.  fat,  2 
oz.  leeks  (or  onion),  1|  oz.  flour,  1  pint  milk, 
1  quart  water,  1|  oz.  rice  or  barley  flour  or 
1  oz.  tapioca,  J  oz.  salt. 

Method.— Take  the  pods  of  the  peas, 
remove  the  strings,  and  boil  freely  in  salted 
water  until  tender.  Put  the  fat  and  leek 
into  a  saucepan  and  stew  till  tender,  then 
add  the  flour,  and  cook  for  5  minutes  without 
allowing  it  to  colour.  Make  into  a  white 
sauce  with  the  milk  and  the  pur6e  made  from 
pea-pods  by  pounding  in  a  mortar  and  passing 
through  a  sieve.  If  there  is  no  mortar 
available,  it  will  do  to  scrape  the  soft  part 
3 


84    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

from  the  skins  of  the  pods  and  strain  this 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  for  15  minutes, 
season  to  taste,  add  a  few  peas  and  a  pinch 
of  sugar,  and  bring  to  the  correct  consistency. 
If  too  thick,  add  milk  or  stock.  The 
thickening  may  be  varied  by  using  rice  flour, 
barley  flour  or  tapioca.  The  rice  or  barley 
flour  should  be  diluted  with  cold  milk,  and 
then  added  by  degrees  to  the  boiling  liquor, 
then  cooked  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Tapioca 
(French  or  granulated)  is  added  10  minutes 
before  the  soup  is  required.  English  tapioca 
should  be  crushed  fine,  put  through  a  sieve 
and  soaked  in  milk,  and  cooked  in  the  soup. 

Leek  and  Potato  Soup 

Materials. — 4  oz.  leeks,  1  oz.  fat,  12  oz. 
potatoes  (shredded),  1  quart  water,  1  gill  milk, 
1  yolk  of  egg,  dried  or  fresh,  or  omit  altogether, 
bunch  of  savoury  herbs,  grate  of  nutmeg, 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Shred  the  leeks  and  stew  in  fat. 
Add  potatoes,  herbs,  the  water  and  salt. 
Cook  freely  until  done.  Place  the  yolk  of 
egg  in  a  soup  tureen,  add  the  milk  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  stir  well,  then  add 
the  soup  (slowly  at  first),  and  a  pinch  of 
freshly  ground  pepper  and  chopped  parsley. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    85 

Shredded  toasted  bread  is  served  with  the 
soup. 

Fish  Soup  (Soup  and  Fish  Dish) 

Materials.  —  1  whiting,  1  mackerel,  1 
sliced  onion,  2  oz.  finely  chopped  onion,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  J  bay  leaf,  6  peppercorns, 
1  tablespoonful  oil,  1  tablespoonful  salad  oil, 
1  lemon,  1  clove,  1  mace  (size  of  a  pea),  2 
chopped  tomatoes,  herbs  and  parsley,  1 
quart  of  water  or  stock,  J  oz.  salt,  pepper. 

Method. — Cut  the  fish  into  pieces  of  2  oz. 
each.  With  the  heads,  etc.,  make  a  fish 
stock  as  follows :  Pour  the  oil  into  the 
saucepan,  add  the  onion,  bay  leaf,  thyme, 
lemon  juice,  peppercorns,  clove,  mace  and 
a  little  salt.  To  this  add  the  fish  trim- 
mings, and  ''  sweat ''  until  a  jelly  is  formed  at 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  then  add  the  water, 
a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  cook  for  20 
minutes,  then  strain.  Place  the  salad  oil 
in  a  saucepan,  and  in  this  fry  the  chopped 
onion,  adding  the  tomatoes  and  herbs,  then 
the  fish.  Cover  with  the  stock,  and  add  the 
salt  and  a  good  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper ; 
boil  freely  for  about  15  minutes.  Place  three 
slices  of  toast,  1|  oz.  each,  in  a  soup  tureen 
and  pour  the  soup  over.  Serve  the  fish 
separately  to  follow  with  boiled  potatoes. 


36    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Eel  Soup 

Materials. — J  lb.  eel,  2  oz.  onions,  2  oz. 
rice  flour,  1  gill  milk,  1  quart  water,  J  oz. 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  parsley  and  chervil, 
1  tablespoonful  oil,  pepper,  a  handful  of 
sorrel. 

Method. — Cut  the  eel  into  slices  |  inch 
thick,  chop  the  onions,  sorrel,  parsley  and 
chervil.  Fry  all  together  in  the  oil,  and 
when  this  is  done  add  the  rice  flour  mixed 
smoothly  in  the  milk  and  sufficient  water 
to  make  1  quart.  Stir  until  it  boils,  season 
with  salt  and  a  little  freshly  ground  pepper. 
Simmer  over  gentle  heat  until  the  eel  is 
cooked.  Serve  with  sippets  of  bread. 
Mashed  potato  could  be  used  instead  of 
rice  flour  to  thicken. 


Fish  Soup  (Mock  Bouillabaisse) 

Materials. — 1  or  2  lb.  of  fish, — herring, 
mackerel,  whiting  and  mussels, — 1  leek, 
1  onion,  toasted  bread,  pinch  of  savoury 
spice  or  herbs,  1  clove  of  garlic,  1  or  2 
tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley, 
1  tablespoonful  of  clarified  fat  or  oil,  juice 
of  lemon. 

Method. — Chop  the  leek,  onion  and  clove 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    37 

of  garlic  very  finely,  and  fry  in  the  fat,  then 
add  the  tomatoes  (peeled  and  coarsely 
chopped),  parsley  and  a  pinch  of  savoury 
spice  or  herbs.  Cut  the  fish  into  pieces 
weighing  about  2  to  3  oz.  each — for  instance, 
1  herring  cut  into  three  pieces,  1  mackerel 
cut  into  four,  1  whiting  cut  into  three,  and 
a  handful  of  mussels  thoroughly  cleansed. 
Place  all  in  a  dish,  cover  with  well-seasoned 
fish  stock  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  bring 
to  the  boil,  cover  with  a  lid,  and  boil  freely 
for  20  minutes. 

Toast  as  many  pieces  of  bread,  cut  J 
inch  thick,  as  there  are  persons,  place  these 
in  a  soup  tureen  and  pour  the  fish  liquid 
on  the  top.  Serve  all  together,  or  the  soup 
first,  followed  by  the  fish  accompanied  by 
potatoes.  A  sauce  may  be  served  with  the 
fish  if  desired. 

This  recipe  provides  a  soup  and  a  fish 
dish,  which  looks  best  when  served  in  the 
casserole  in  which  it  was  cooked. 

Fish  Mock  Turtle  Soup 

(Made  with  a  Cod's  Head) 

Materials. — Cod's  head,  4  oz.  onions,  4  oz. 
carrot,  1  tablespoonful  oil,  1  lemon,  1  tea- 
spoonful  basil,   half-teaspoonful    marjoram, 


38    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

1  clove  of  garlic,  1  bay  leaf  and  equal 
amount  thyme,  1  dozen  peppercorns, 
6  allspice,  1  dozen  corianders,  1  bunch 
parsley  stalks,  3  pints  water,  3  oz.  baked 
flour. 

Method. — Slice  the  onions  and  carrot  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  garlic,  oil, 
bay  leaf,  thyme,  peppercorns,  allspice, 
corianders  and  parsley  stalks.  Cut  the 
cod's  head  into  pieces — e.g.  (1)  Tongue, 
(2)  top  of  the  head,  (3)  and  (4)  cheeks, 
(5)  and  (6)  shoulders  if  left  on  the  head. 
Place  the  trimmings  on  the  bed  of  vegetables, 
and  arrange  the  pieces  of  cod's  head  on  the 
top;  sprinkle  with  salt.  Add  the  lemon 
juice,  cover  with  a  lid,  and  simmer  until 
the  fish  is  cooked  in  its  own  liquor.  Care- 
fully lift  the  pieces  of  cod  out  of  the  pan 
and  keep  warm  with  a  little  stock.  Remove 
the  liquid  of  the  fish,  which  reserve  until 
later,  now  add  the  water  to  the  remaining 
bones,  etc.,  boil,  then  cook  for  10  minutes. 
Strain  the  liquid,  make  it  up  to  1  quart,  to 
which  add  the  flour  (baked  dry  in  an  oven 
until  it  is  fawn  coloured),  and  whisk  the 
stock  to  separate  the  flour,  which  does  not 
lump  after  baking.  Boil  for  10  minutes. 
Now  add  the  basil  and  marjoram  and  the 
reserved  fish   liquid,   season  to  taste,   and 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES     39 

add  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Simmer 
for  5  minutes  more,  then  strain.  Serve 
with  cut  lemon. 

The  fish  used  for  the  making  of  the  soup 
can  be  served  to  follow  the  soup  with  a 
fish  sauce  and  potatoes,  or  can  be  used  for 
fish  pies,  patties,  cakes,  salads  and  many 
other  dishes.  The  heads  of  other  fish  can 
be  used  equally  well  for  the  purpose,  but 
cod's  head  has  a  large  amount  of  gelatine, 
which  of  course  is  required  to  make  this 
kind  of  soup. 


Fish  Cream  Soup  (without  Cream) 

(Made  from  a  Cod's  Head) 

Materials. — 1  cod's  head,  1  quart  of  water, 
I  oz.  salt,  2  oz.  rice  flour,  |  pint  milk,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  paprika  or  cayenne 
pepper,  garnish  of  rice,  macaroni,  vegetables, 
sippets,  fish  balls,  or  parsley,  etc. 

Method. — Prepare  the  cod's  head  as  ex- 
plained for  the  mock  turtle  soup  (see  p.  37). 
When  the  essence  is  rendered,  strain  it  into 
a  basin,  then  cover  the  fish  bones  with  the 
water,  season  with  salt,  bring  to  the  boil, 
and  simmer  for  10  minutes.  Now  drain 
the  liquid  from  the  fish,  and  be  sure  to  drain 


40    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

it  well  to  obtain  all  the  juice.  Place  the 
liquid  in  a  saucepan  and  bring  to  the  boil. 
Mix  the  rice  flour  in  the  cold  milk,  stir  well, 
then  run  this  into  the  boiling  liquid  and 
simmer  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Add  the 
reserved  essence  of  fish,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  paprika  or  cayenne  pepper.  Strain 
the  soup,  which  may  be  garnished  as 
desired. 

The  flesh  of  the  head,  carefully  removed 
after  the  essence  was  rendered,  to  be  used 
as  already  explained  in  the  former  recipe. 

Barley  Broth 

Materials. — |  lb.  mixed  vegetables,  1  oz. 
fat,  3  pints  water,  2  oz.  pearl  barley,  |  oz. 
barley  flour  or  potato  flour,  1  gill  milk,  a 
little  coarsely  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Cut  the  vegetables  into  small 
dice  and  ''  sweat  "  in  the  fat  until  they 
begin  to  colour.  A  pinch  of  salt  and  sugar 
helps  to  produce  the  required  flavour. 
Cover  with  the  water.  Wash  the  barley 
and  add  to  the  liquor,  season  to  taste,  and 
cook  for  1  hour.  Thicken  with  the  barley 
flour  or  potato  flour  mixed  smooth  in  the 
milk.  Finish  with  a  little  coarsely  chopped 
parsley. 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    41 

SAUCES 

Sauce  without  Fat 

Note. — It  may  happen  that  a  sauce  is 
needed  when  no  fat  can  be  spared.  In  that 
case  sauce  may  be  made  as  follows  : 

Take  some  flour  and  mix  it  to  a  smooth 
cream  with  enough  cold  liquid,  which  may  be 
stock  or  water  or  milk,  or  milk  and  water, 
according  to  the  sauce  needed.  Boil  the 
remainder  of  the  liquid  and  add  the  mixed 
flour,  stirring  until  it  boils.  Then  season, 
and  finish  as  directed. 

White  Sauce 

Materials. — J  oz.  fat,  §  oz.  flour,  J  pint 
milk,  salt  and  pepper,  grated  nutmeg. 

Method. — Mix  the  fat  with  the  flour  cold, 
add  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated 
nutmeg,  place  on  a  small  flame  without 
stirring  until  it  comes  to  the  boil,  whisk 
quickly  to  produce  at  once  a  smooth  sauce. 
Made  in  this  way  the  sauce  does  not  require 
straining  ;   there  will  be  no  lumps. 

Curry  Sauce 

Materials. — 4  oz.  onion,  1  tablespoonful 
oil,  1  teaspoonful  curry  powder,  ^  oz.  flour. 


42    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

juice  of  half  a  lemon,  half  a  chopped  apple, 
1  teaspoonful  chutney,  f  pint  of  water. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  oil,  and 
when  beginning  to  colour  add  the  curry 
powder  and  flour  and  fry  until  lightly 
coloured.  Add  the  water,  lemon  juice,  apple 
and  chutney  ;  season  and  cook  until  |  pint 
is  left. 

Bread  Sauce 

Materials. — 2  oz.  stale  bread,  |  pint  milk, 
1  onion,  salt,  1  clove,  mace. 

Method. — Break  the  bread  and  place  in 
cold  milk  to  soak.  Add  a  small  onion  into 
which  a  clove  has  been  stuck,  a  tiny  piece 
of  mace,  and  a  little  salt.  Bring  to  the 
boil  slowly,  and  simmer  till  the  onion  is 
cooked.  Remove  the  onion,  whisk  the 
sauce  or  pass  it  through  a  sieve.  Taste, 
correct  the  seasoning,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Imitation  Bread  Sauce 

Materials. — \  gill  semolina  or  white  maize 
meal,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  small  onion  stuck  with 
a  clove,  tiny  piece  of  mace  and  pinch  of 
salt,  pepper. 

Method. — Soak  the  semolina  or  maize 
meal  in  the  milk,  adding  the  onion,  mace  and 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    43 

salt.  Bring  to  the  boil,  and  place  in  a 
double  cooker  for  1  hour  (having  removed 
the  clove  from  the  onion),  pass  through  a 
sieve.     Finish  with  a  little  cayenne  or  pepper, 

Lyonnaise  Sauce 

Materials. — 4  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  §  oz. 
flour,  1  pint  water,  pinch  of  spice  and  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  pinch  of  pepper, 
half-teaspoonful  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Cut  the  onion  into  slices  and 
fry  with  the  fat.  As  soon  as  the  onion 
begins  to  colour  add  the  flour,  stir  and  fry 
until  a  fawn  colour  is  obtained.  Cover  with 
water  ;  add  spice  and  salt,  boil,  and  then 
let  simmer,  stirring  till  the  required  thick- 
ness is  obtained,  and  skimming  the  fat  as 
it  rises  to  the  surface.  (This  fat  must  be 
placed  in  a  basin  with  water  so  that  it  can 
be  collected  and  added  to  the  store  of  cooking 
fat.)  Add  the  vinegar,  simmer  10  minutes 
longer,  and  then  add  pepper  and  parsley  and 
serve. 

Tomato  Sauce 

Materials.— 1  oz.  onion,  |  lb.  fresh 
tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  fat  or  salad  oil, 
a  small  clove  of  garlic,  water  to  make  |  pint, 
I  oz.  flour,  a  pinch  of  spice,  salt  and  cayenne. 


44     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  salad  oil,  add 
the  flour  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  the  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped  (the 
pips  removed),  spice,  salt,  cayenne  and  garlic, 
and  sufficient  water  to  make  |  pint  in  all. 
Cook  slowly  till  |  pint  is  left.  Taste,  and 
correct  the  seasoning  if  necessary,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Chasseur  Sauce 

Materials. — 2  oz.  onion,  2  oz.  mushrooms, 
1  tablespoonful  oil,  f  pint  water,  |  oz.  baked 
flour,  pinch  of  pepper,  spice  and  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  tomato  puree  or  juice,  1 
teaspoonful  chopped  herbs,  parsley  and 
tarragon,  a  few  drops  lemon  juice. 

Method. — Chop  the  onion,  slice  the  mush- 
room, and  fry  them  together  in  the  oil. 
When  nicely  coloured  cover  with  the  water, 
add  the  flour  (baked  to  a  light  fawn  colour), 
spice,  salt  and  tomato  puree  or  juice  of 
fresh  tomato,  and  cook  until  |  pint  is  left. 
Add  the  herbs,  parsley  and  tarragon,  pinch 
of  freshly  ground  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 

Italian  Sauce 

Prepare  a  sauce  as  directed  for  Lyonnaise 
(see    p.    43),    chopping    the    onion    finely; 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    45 

add  2  oz.  finely  chopped  mushrooms  and,  if 
available,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  lean  ham. 


Robert  Sauce 

Prepare  a  Lyonnaise  sauce  (p.  43),  cutting 
the  onion  in  small  dice  instead  of  slices, 
Wlien  the  sauce  is  finished  add  1  teaspoonful 
of  made  mustard  and  one  or  two  sliced 
gherkins. 

Bercy  Sauce 

Materials. — Melted  butter  sauce  made  with 
fish  stock,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  shallot, 
quarter-teaspoonful  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Prepare  the  melted  butter  sauce 
with  fish  stock,  in  which  the  shallot  has  been 
cooked.  Add  the  parsley,  make  hot  and 
serve. 

Devil  Sauce 

Add  to  a  Lyonnaise  sauce  (p.  43)  half- 
teaspoonful  of  freshly  ground  pepper  and  a 
little  Worcester  sauce  and  ketchup. 

Mornay  Sauce 

Add  to  a  white  sauce  (p.  41)  1  oz.  grated 
cheese  and  stir  till  dissolved. 


46    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Melted  Butter  Sauce 

Same  as  white  sauce,  but  use  water  in- 
stead of  milk,  omit  the  nutmeg,  and  add  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Fish  Sauce 

Materials. — 1  gill  fish  stock,  1  gill  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  corn  flour. 

Method. — To  the  boiling  fish  stock  or 
liquor  from  steamed  fish  add  the  milk,  in 
which  the  corn  flour  has  been  smoothly 
mixed,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens, 
but  do  not  boil.  Season  to  taste.  Parsley, 
capers,  anchovy  or  other  garnish  can  be 
added  according  to  requirements. 

Custard  Sauce 

Materials. — 1  oz.  either  corn  flour,  potato 
flour,  arrowroot  or  a  mixture  of  all,  suffi- 
cient egg  colour  to  give  the  desired  colour 
{egg  colouring  is  sold  by  most  grocers), 
1  pint  boiling  milk,  1  oz.  sugar,  flavour 
essence,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Method. — Mix  the  flour  and  egg  colouring 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  until  smooth. 
Boil  the  remainder  of  the  milk  with  the  sugar 
and  pour   over  the  flour   mixture,  stirring 


SOUPS,  STOCKS,  GRAVY,  SAUCES    47 

all  the  time.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
flavouring  essence.  Stir  until  well  mixed, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


Parsnip  Sauce  (Sweet) 

Materials. — 1  lb.  parsnip,  1  pint  water, 
1  oz.  jam,  I  oz.  corn  flour,  lemon  or  almond 
essence,  little  cochineal. 

Method. — Clean  and  bake  the  parsnip 
(rolled  in  a  sheet  of  paper)  until  tender  ; 
pass  through  a  mincer  with  skin  and  all. 
Place  the  parsnip  in  the  water  and  boil 
15  minutes,  adding  the  jam;  colour  with 
cochineal  and  strain,  pressing  all  the  liquor 
out  of  the  parsnip.  Thicken  this  with  corn 
flour  mixed  smoothly  in  a  little  of  the  cooked 
liquid,  and  add  essence  to  flavour.  After 
the  corn  flour  is  added  the  sauce  should  be 
simmered  for  10  minutes. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce  without  Eggs 

Materials. — 1  tin  of  condensed  milk  or  J 
pint  fresh  milk,  1  oz.  starch,  corn  flour  or 
potato  flour,  a  little  oil,  |  gill  strong  vinegar, 
half-teaspoonful  mustard,  salt  and  a  dust  of 
cayenne  pepper. 

Method. — Mix  the  starch  or  flour  with  the 


48    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

milk,  bring  almost  *to  the  boil,  but  do  not 
actually  boil,  as  that  would  make  the  starch 
ropy.  Add  the  oil  if  procurable — a  small 
quantity  will  do,  or  the  sauce  may  be  made 
without  it.  Then  add  the  vinegar,  mustard, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce  without  Oil 

Materials. — 2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  tin  un- 
sweetened condensed  milk  (fresh  milk 
cannot  be  used  in  this  recipe),  vinegar  as 
required,  half-teaspoonful  mustard,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper. 

Method. — Mix  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  salt 
and  stir  the  milk  into  them  as  if  it  were 
oil,  then  add  the  vinegar,  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Note  on  Mayonnaise  Sauces. — In  making 
mayonnaise  sauces  with  fresh  milk  instead 
of  condensed  milk,  it  should  be  made  first 
into  a  thick  white  sauce  with  flour  before  the 
vinegar  is  added,  otherwise  it  will  curdle. 


CHAPTER    III 

FRESH,  DRIED  AND   FRESHWATER 
FISH 


There  are  but  two  kinds  of  cooking — good  and  bad. 


so 


CHAPTER  III 

FRESH,  DRIED  AND  FRESHWATER 
FISH 

Methods  of  Cooking  Fish 

When  fish  is  boiled  in  water  the  water 
turns  milky.  This  is  caused  by  extracts 
from  the  fish,  which  are  washed  out  of  it 
into  the  water  during  the  process  of  cooking. 
The  water  is  heavily  salted  to  give  flavour  to 
the  fish,  which  is  not  very  pronounced  when 
so  cooked.  The  water,  being  too  salt  for 
any  other  use,  is  then  thrown  away  with  the 
extracts  from  the  fish,  and  consequently 
valuable  food  is  lost.  When  fish  is  placed 
on  a  dish  and  then  steamed,  all  the  juice 
that  is  lost  during  the  process  of  steaming  is 
received  in  the  dish  ;  made  into  sauce  it  is 
thus  recovered  and  so  much  nutriment  is 
saved,  and  the  flavour  is  retained.  Very 
little  salt  is  required  when  cooking  in  this 
manner.  It  is  better,  however,  that  sliced 
fish,  before  steaming,  should  be  placed  for 


52    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water  in  order  to 
seal  it  up  and  conserve  all  the  nourishment 
in  it.  This  sealing  also  prevents  the  un- 
attractive skim  which  otherwise  forms  on 
the  surface  of  the  fish.  It  is  generally 
believed  that  steaming  takes  longer  than 
boiling,  but  that  is  not  the  case. 

Baked  or  roast  fish  is  excellent,  particularly 
those  containing  much  fat ;  but  also  insipid 
fish  such  as  bream,  which  when  boiled  is 
tasteless,  is  excellent  when  roasted.  Fresh- 
water fish  is  admirable  food,  and  should  be 
used  more  than  has  been  customary,  parti- 
cularly pike,  which  in  texture  is  not  unlike 
meat.  It  is  best  served  in  pies,  stuffing, 
quenelles  and  puddings.  Perch  is  a  most 
delicate  fish  steamed  or  fried ;  eels  are  very 
rich  in  fat  and  are  best  stewed  or  fried. 
Fish  soup  made  with  a  variety  of  fish,  with 
potatoes  and  vegetables  added,  supplies  at 
once  soup  and  fish  and  vegetables — a  one- 
dish  dinner,  in  fact.     (See  Chap.  II.,  p.  35.) 

Do  not  despise  salt  herrings  (Government 
pickled  herrings),  for  they  are  very  nourish- 
ing. They  should  be  stewed  or  steamed. 
When  boiled  they  break  up  to  a  mash. 
They  must  not  be  soaked  too  long — 12  to 
24  hours  is  enough  for  the  good  quality 
Scotch  herrings. 


FISH  58 

Fish  is  valuable  food ;  the  herring, 
mackerel,  salmon,  eels  are  rich  in  fat,  and 
are  more  nutritious  than  white  fish,  irre- 
spective of  price.  The  sole  and  turbot  are 
not  more  nutritious  than  cod,  haddock 
or  hake.  They  are  considered  finer  fish, 
are  more  in  demand,  and  consequently  the 
prices  are  higher,  but  the  fish  of  the  highest 
food  value  for  money  spent  is  the  herring, 
fresh  or  pickled. 

The  following  recipes  are  chiefly  foreign, 
and  such  as  cannot  be  found  in  ordinary 
cookery  books.  They  make  a  pleasing 
change  from  the  plain  boiled  (which,  as  has 
been  explained,  is  an  extravagant  method  of 
cooking)  or  fried  (there  is  seldom  enough  fat 
to  spare  for  frying)  generally  served  in  this 
country. 

Fish  Pie 

(Delicious  Hot  or  Cold) 

Materials. — Fresh  herring  or  mackerel, 
1  lb.  cod-fish,  2  oz.  bread,  8  oz.  mashed  potato, 
4  oz.  rice  flour,  4  oz.  self-raising  flour,  a  few 
slices  of  onion,  little  lemon  juice,  spice,  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg,  1  gill  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoonful  salad  oil. 

Method. — Fillet  a  fresh  herring  or  small 
mackerel.     Place  the  slices  of  onion  in  a  small 


54     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

saucepan,  arrange  the  herring  and  roe  on  the 
top,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  add  a  little 
spice  and  salt,  cover  with  a  lid  and  ''  sweat " 
(that  is  cook  gently)  until  done.  Remove 
bone  and  skin  from  the  cod-fish  and  then 
pass  it  through  a  mincer.  Soak  the  bread  in 
the  milk  and  boil  it.  Separate  the  best  parts 
of  the  herring  and  the  roe,  which  reserve  for 
later  use,  and  remove  all  bones.  All  the 
remainder  of  the  fish  and  the  onion,  also  the 
lemon  juice,  place  with  the  cod  and  bread 
panada.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and 
spice,  and  just  a  grate  of  nutmeg.  Mix  all, 
and  pass  through  the  mincer  once  or  twice, 
so  that  the  whole  is  perfectly  mixed.  Make  a 
paste  of  the  mashed  potato,  salad  oil  and  salt, 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Now  add  the  rice 
flour,  which  mix  well  with  the  potato,  then 
add  the  self-raising  flour,  and  mix  the  whole 
to  a  stiff  paste.  Water  will  only  be  required 
if  the  potatoes  are  very  dry.  Be  careful, 
however,  not  to  add  too  much,  or  the  paste 
will  be  doughy  after  baking. 

Grease  a  raised  pie-tin,  line  it  with  the 
paste  by  placing  a  piece  of  dough  in  the 
centre  of  the  pie-tin  and  working  it  up  against 
the  sides  to  an  equal  thickness  all  over. 
Place  a  layer  of  fish  preparation  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  arrange  the  filleted  fish 


FISH  55 

and  roe  on  this,  cover  with  fish  farce,  and 
repeat  until  three-quarters  full. 

Roll  out  the  paste  for  the  top,  and  cut 
it  out  with  a  cutter  to  the  size  required. 
Place  it  on  the  top,  press  the  sides  well 
together,  cut  away  excessive  paste,  fringe 
the  edges  and  make  a  hole  in  the  centre. 
Leave  for  1  hour  and  then  cook  in  a  hot 
oven  for  20  minutes  to  bake  the  crust. 
When  this  is  done  bake  very  slowly  to  cook 
the  inside.  For  1  lb.  filling,  1  hour  in  all 
is  required ;  for  a  larger  or  smaller,  pro 
rata. 

When  the  pie  is  to  be  served  cold,  prepare 
a  fish  jelly  by  adding  gelatine  to  a  fish 
stock  sufficient  to  form  a  cutable  jelly. 
Pour  this  into  the  pie  by  the  centre  hole 
when  cooked,  and  let  it  set. 

For  patties,  cut  the  roe  and  fillet  up  and 
mix  with  the  fish  preparation  which  is 
called  '*  farce." 

This  is,  as  the  reader  will  have  observed, 
quite  an  inexpensive  dish,  yet  it  is  one 
often  sold  at  a  high  price  by  first-class 
caterers. 

This  proves  that  it  is  skill  and  not  ex- 
pensive material  which  is  the  first  necessity 
in  the  kitchen. 


56    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Fish  Sausages 

Use  the  filling  for  the  fish  pie  and  follow 
the  directions  for  meat  sausages  (see  p.  91). 

Fish  Stuffings 

1.  2  oz.  of  soaked  and  squeezed  bread, 
half-tablespoonful  of  oil  or  1  oz.  of  chopped 
suet,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  half-teaspoonful 
of  flour,  and  half  a  dried  or  fresh  egg,  herbs 
and  chopped  parsley.  Mix  and  use  as 
directed  on  the  recipe. 

2.  Fry  1  oz.  of  finely  chopped  onion  or 
shallot  in  half-tablespoonful  of  oil.  When 
fried,  add  2  oz.  or  more  of  chopped  mush- 
rooms, fry  together  until  dry.  Now  add 
2  oz.  of  soaked  and  squeezed  bread,  salt, 
pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley  and 
half  an  egg.     Mix  well  and  use  as  directed. 

3.  Fry  1  oz.  of  finely  chopped  onion  or 
shallot  in  half-tablespoonful  of  oil.  When 
fried,  add  4  oz.  of  peeled  and  chopped 
tomato^  also  a  pinhead  of  garlic  if  available. 
Simmer  till  the  moisture  has  evaporated, 
add  2  oz.  of  soaked  and  squeezed  bread, 
1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley  and  half  an 
egg.     Mix  well  and  use  as  directed. 

The  bread  can  be  replaced  by  using  2  oz. 


FISH  57 

of  dry  pulse  puree  (cooked  and  sieved  peas, 
beans,  etc.)  and  1  oz.  of  mashed  potato. 

4.  Fish  prepared  as  for  fish  pie  (see  p.  53), 
which  can  be  blended  with  mushrooms  and 
tomatoes,  prepared  as  in  recipes  2  and  3, 
or  fish  and  bread  panada,  or  rice  panada, 
thoroughly  mixed  together  and  worked  to 
form  an  elastic  body. 

Fish  Cakes  (Baked) 

Materials. — Fish  bones  and  heads,  mashed 
potatoes  in  equal  quantity,  a  few  maize 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  anchovy 
sauce,  batter  made  with  oil. 

Method. — When  fish  stock  has  been  made 
with  fish  bones  and  heads,  a  considerable 
amount  of  fish  remains  on  the  bones,  which, 
even  after  the  stock  has  been  extracted, 
has  a  large  percentage  of  the  food  value 
left  in  it.  The  fish  should  be  carefully 
picked  with  a  fork,  and  all  the  skin  and  bone 
removed.  These  pickings  should  then  be 
drained  on  a  cloth  to  extract  the  moisture 
and  afterwards  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  dry  mashed  potato,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  anchovy 
sauce  added  to  improve  the  fish  flavour. 
The  mixture  should  be  made  into  balls  and 


68    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

then  coated  with  a  light  batter  (see  p.  233) 
and  rolled  in  maize  crumbs,  pressed  flat, 
then  placed  on  a  baking  tin  and  baked  in 
a  hot  oven.  They  should  be  turned  when 
necessary,  so  that  they  colour  evenly. 

Pan  Fish 

Materials. — |  lb.  cooked  fish,  2  oz.  onion, 
1  oz.  rice,  4  oz.  mashed  potato,  1  table- 
spoonful  oil  or  1  oz.  fat,  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Shred  or  chop  the  onion  and 
fry  to  a  golden  colour  in  half  the  fat.  Boil 
the  rice  plain ;  mix  all  the  ingredients 
together,  season  well,  place  in  a  gratin  dish, 
sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs  and  oil,  and  bake. 

Baked  Fish  (Whole  or  FiUeted) 

Materials. — ^Fish,  clarified  fat  or  oil, 
anchovy  or  chopped  capers  and  herbs, 
potato  or  corn  flour,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
a  little  salt,  a  little  water  or  fish  stock. 

Method. — If  a  whole  fish  is  baked,  it  is 
best  to  stuff  it  (for  Stuffings,  see  p.  56), 
then  place  it  on  a  greased  fireproof  dish, 
season  with  salt,  and  baste  with  a  little  oil 
or  melted  clarified  fat.  Put  it  in  the  oven 
and  bake,  basting  it  from  time  to  time. 
When  coloured  and  not  quite  cooked,  cover 


FISH  59 

with  a  grease-proof  paper  or  a  turned-over 
dish.  Do  not  place  a  paper  over  the  fish 
until  set,  otherwise  it  will  stick,  and  the 
appearance  of  the  fish  will  be  spoiled.  When 
cooked,  remove  the  fish,  rinse  the  dish  with 
water  or  fish  stock,  and  add  a  little  anchovy 
or  chopped  capers  and  herbs.  Reduce  to 
the  quantity  required  by  boiling,  thicken 
with  potato  or  corn  flour  (first  mixed  smoothly 
in  cold  water),  season  to  taste,  and  pour 
over  the  fish.  Make  hot,  and  serve  on  the 
dish  in  which  it  was  cooked,  sprinkled  with 
chopped  parsley  if  liked.  The  liquid  from 
the  fish  may  be  used  as  a  foundation  for 
various  kinds  of  sauce,  such  as  tomato, 
mushroom,  brown  onion  sauce,  etc.  etc. 

Steamed  Fish 

Fish  should  never  be  boiled,  as  in  that 
way  much  valuable  food  is  lost.  It  should 
be  steamed  instead.  Place  it  on  a  dish  and 
cover  with  a  grease-proof  paper  so  that  all 
the  essence  extracted  from  the  fish  is  re- 
ceived on  the  dish,  and  the  paper  prevents 
condensed  water  from  falling  from  the  lid 
of  the  pan  on  to  the  fish  and  into  the  liquor 
which  comes  from  it  as  it  cooks.  If  the 
fish  is  cut  in  slices  it  should  always  first  be 


60    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

dipped  into  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes 
to  seal  it  up.  This  prevents  the  juices  from 
covering  the  fish  and  coagulating  on  the 
surface  in  a  milky  skin,  thereby  spoiling 
the  appearance  of  the  fish,  particularly 
salmon,  which  should  be  a  bright  pinky-red 
colour  when  cooked. 

Cut  fish  is  cooked  when  the  spine  can  be 
easily  removed,  and  large  joints  of  fish  when, 
on  pricking  with  a  needle,  no  resistance  is 
felt.  The  juice  left  in  the  dish  must  be 
used  to  make  the  sauce,  which  at  present, 
now  fat  is  so  scarce,  can  be  thickened  with 
a  little  corn  or  potato  flour  diluted  in  cold 
milk  or  water  and  then  added  to  the  boiling 
liquid.  About  |  oz.  per  pint  of  liquid  is 
required.     (For  Sauces,  see  Chap.  II.) 

Baked  Fillet  of  Fish  in  Batter 

Materials. — Fillet  of  fish,  frying  batter. 

Method. — Fillet  the  fish  and  cut  in  neat 
strips,  season  with  salt,  coat  with  stiff 
frying  batter  (see  p.  234).  Drain  well,  place 
on  a  greased  baking-tin,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  brown. 

The  same  can  be  crumbed  with  maize 
crumbs  (see  p.  231)  and  baked  to  a  golden 
brown. 


FISH  61 

Whiting  or  other  Fish  au  Gratin 

Materials. — Whiting  or  other  filleted  fish, 
2  oz,  chopped  mushrooms,  1  oz.  chopped 
onion,  1  dessertspoonful  of  oil,  half-teaspoon- 
ful  chopped  herbs  or  parsley,  1  gill  of  brown 
sauce  (see  p.  22),  salt  and  pepper,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  a  few  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  oil,  add 
the  mushrooms,  chopped  herbs  or  parsley, 
and  also  the  brown  sauce ;  season  to  taste. 
Clean  the  whiting  and  fillet  the  fish.  Put  1 
tablespoonful  of  sauce  at  the  bottom  of  a 
fireproof  dish,  place  the  fish  in  it,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
cover  with  the  sauce,  scatter  lightly  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  for  about  20  minutes, 
until  the  fish  is  cooked.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice. 

Mackerel  and  Rice 

Materials. — 1  mackerel,  1  tablespoonful  of 
oil,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion,  1 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  herbs,  1  teaspoonful 
of  paprika  pepper,  1  or  2  tomatoes,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  |  pint  of  rice,  f  pint  of  fish 
stock. 

Method. — Clean   the    mackerel     and    cut 


62    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

it  into  pieces.  Fry  them  in  the  oil,  and 
add  to  this  the  onion,  herbs,  tomatoes 
(chopped  finely),  the  paprika  and  lemon 
juice  and  a  few  sprigs  of  saffron,  if  liked. 
Then  add  the  rice,  and  cover  with  f  pint  of 
fish  stock,  or  more,  according  to  the  quality 
of  rice,  for  the  amount  of  liquid  which  rice 
will  absorb  depends  upon  the  kind  of  rice 
used.  Season  well,  bring  to  the  boil,  and 
cook  for  20  minutes. 

Any  other  fish  may  be  used,  and  curry 
powder  added  instead  of  paprika. 

Halibut  Portugaise 

Materials. — Slice  of  halibut,  1  inch  thick, 
little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  juice 
of  a  lemon,  1  tomato,  little  finely  chopped 
onion,  2  teaspoonfuls  fish  stock  or  water. 

Method. — Season  the  halibut  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour,  then  dip  it 
into  boiling  water  to  set,  and  place  it  in  a 
greased  dish.  Add  the  tomato  (the  pips 
and  skin  removed  and  the  flesh  cut  small), 
onion,  parsley,  the  remaining  juice  of  the 
lemon  and  the  fish  stock  or  water.  Cover 
with  a  lid,  and  cook  in  the  oven  until  done, 
allowing    about   20   minutes.     Thicken  the 


FISH  68 

gravy,  and  sprinkle  the  dish  with  chopped 
parsley  before  serving. 

Salmon  Flamande 

Materials. — 1  lb.  salmon,  |  oz.  carrot,  ^  oz. 
parsnip,  |  oz.  celery,  1  oz.  onion,  |  oz.  clarified 
fat,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  or  stock. 

Method. — Shred  the  carrot,  parsnip,  celery 
and  onion  into  strips,  and  mix  with  the 
clarified  fat  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cover 
and  stew  gently  until  tender.  Season  the 
salmon  with  salt  and  pepper  half  an  hour 
before  required  for  cooking,  and  dip  into 
boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Lay  on 
the  bed  of  vegetables,  adding  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  and  the  water  or  stock.  Cover 
with  a  paper  and  cook  until  done,  allowing 
about  20  minutes.  Drain  the  salmon,  and 
remove  the  skin  and  centre  bone — ^the  skin 
is  apt  to  be  oily,  and  the  dish  looks  more 
appetising  without  it.  Dish  up  the  fish 
sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley,  and  pour 
the  vegetables  and  liquor  over. 

Grey  Mullet 

Materials. — Sharp  sauce  (see  p.  43), 
mullet,  little  salt,  little  vinegar. 


64    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Method. — Place  on  a  plate,  season  with 
salt,  and  baste  with  vinegar,  then  steam 
in  the  usual  way.     Serve  with  a  sharp  sauce. 


Filleted  Herrings  and  Rice  (Cold) 

Materials. — ^A  few  fresh  herrings,  little 
chopped  onion  and  parsley,  1  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar  to  each  herring,  equal  quantity 
of  water,  a  few  crushed  peppercorns  and  all- 
spice, fish-bone  stock  (see  p.  20),  1  table- 
spoonful  of  oil,  1  gill  of  rice,  1  chopped 
tomato,  mayonnaise  sauce  (see  p.  47). 

Method. — Fillet  the  fresh  herrings,  reserve 
the  bones.  Season,  and  add  a  little  chopped 
onion  and  parsley,  roll  up  and  tie  with 
string.  Boil  for  each  herring  1  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  an  equal  quantity 
of  water  ;  season,  add  the  peppercorns  and 
a  little  allspice,  and  pour  over  the  herrings, 
and  cook  slowly  until  done.  Let  them  cool 
in  the  liquor.  Make  a  stock  with  the  fish 
bones.  Fry  1  oz.  of  chopped  onion  in  the 
oil,  then  add  the  rice  (which  has  been  heated 
in  the  oil),  tomato,  and,  if  possible,  a  few 
sprigs  of  saffron.  Cover  with  one  and  a  half 
times  as  much  stock,  well  seasoned,  close 
the  pan  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  cook  for 
20  minutes.     When  done  add  the  liquor  in 


FISH  65 

which  the  herrings  were  boiled.  Toss,  and 
allow  to  cool.  Make  a  border  of  the  rice, 
place  the  herrings  in  the  centre,  and  serve 
with  a  mayonnaise  sauce. 


Soused  Herrings  or  Mackerel  (Hot  or  Cold) 

Materials. — Herrings  or  mackerel,  a  few 
slices  of  onion  to  each  fish,  1  clove,  6  pepper- 
corns, 2  allspice,  a  little  salt,  vinegar  and 
water. 

Method. — Place  the  cleaned  fish  in  a  dish 
with  the  onion,  clove,  peppercorns,  allspice 
and  salt,  and  then  to  half  the  height  of  the 
fish  add  half  vinegar  and  water.  Cover 
with  a  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  from  15  to  30  minutes. 

Herring  Olives  Ragout 

Materials. — 1  pickled  herring  filleted  (2), 
a  little  bread  stuffing,  1  oz.  carrot,  1  oz. 
onion,  1  tablespoonful  of  oil,  J  pint  of  water, 
1  dozen  small  potatoes  (olive  size),  a  little 
salt  and  spice,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Soak  the  herring  for  12  hours. 

It  is  best  to  fillet  the  herring  before  soaking, 

otherwise  it  is  liable  to  go  bad  in  the  bone, 

and  if  red,  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea 

5 


66    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

may  be  added  to  whiten  the  fish,  but  this 
should  be  well  washed  away  before  cooking, 
by  changing  the  water  frequently.  Drain 
the  herring  on  a  cloth,  remove  all  the  bones 
and  the  skin  if  desired.  The  skin  holds  the 
fish  together,  so  it  is  preferable  to  leave  it  on. 
Place  the  herring  fillets  with  the  skin  side 
upward  and  the  point  toward  you.  Fill  the 
centre  with  bread  stuffing,  and  roll  the  fillets 
up  so  as  to  enclose  the  stuffing.  Skewer  or  tie 
with  string.  Cut  the  carrot  and  onion  into 
small  pieces,  fry  lightly  in  the  oil,  and  when 
fried,  add  the  water.  Cook  freely  until  the 
vegetables  are  nearly  done,  then  add  the 
potatoes ;  season  lightly  with  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  spice,  and  cook  furtheruntil  the  potatoes  are 
half  cooked.  Now  place  the  stuffed  fillets  of 
herring  on  the  top  of  the  ragout  of  vegetables, 
cover  with  a  lid  and  stew  till  the  fillets  are 
cooked — about  15  minutes.  Dish  up  the 
fillets,  remove  the  string  or  skewers,  correct 
the  seasoning  and  pour  the  ragout  over  the 
fillets.  See  that  the  potatoes  are  all  round 
the  fish.     Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

Herring  Olives  with  Rice 

Materials. — Some  herring  fillets  (the  stuffed 
fillets  are  called  olives),  1  oz.  finely  chopped 


FISH  67 

onion,  half-tablespoonful  of  salad  oil,  1  gill 
of  rice,  |  pint  of  fish  stock,  tomato  sauce. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  salad  oil, 
add  the  rice,  and  stir  to  cover  each  grain  with 
fat.  Now  add  the  fish  stock,  season  to  taste, 
and  place  the  herring  olives,  prepared  as  for 
olives  ragout,  in  the  liquid,  bring  to  the  boil, 
cover  with  a  lid  and  simmer  for  20  to  25 
minutes.  Remove  the  olives,  take  out  the 
skewers,  dish  up  the  rice  and  place  the 
olives  on  top.  Pour  tomato  sauce  round, 
and  a  pinch  of  saffron  may  be  added  to  the 
rice. 

When  tomatoes  are  available,  a  peeled  and 
chopped  tomato  may  also  be  added. 

Baked  Herring  Olives  (or  Stuffed  Fillets) 

Materials. — Herring  olives  prepared  as  for 
the  pickled  herring  ragout,  a  little  batter, 
a  few  maize  crumbs,  a  little  fish  sauce  (see 
p.  46)  or  tomato  sauce,  sharp  sauce,  an- 
chovy sauce  (see  pp.  43  and  45)  or  any  other 
desired. 

Method. — Steam  the  herring  olives,  coat 
them  with  batter  and  maize  crumbs,  place  in 
a  greased  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  nicely  coloured,  dish  up  and  serve 
with  the  sauce. 


68    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Soused  Herrings  (Fresh  or  Salted) 

Materials. — Fresh  herrings,  1  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar  for  each  herring,  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  a  few  peppercorns,  a  little  salt  and 
allspice,  a  few  slices  of  onion,  a  little  oil. 

Method. — Remove  the  bone  of  the  herring 
by  opening  the  back  of  the  fish,  and  also 
remove  the  head.  Roll  the  fish  up  and 
skewer  to  hold  in  shape.  Place  in  a  dish 
and  add  the  vinegar,  water,  salt,  peppercorns, 
allspice,  onion  and  a  slice  of  lemon  (if  avail- 
able). Baste  very  sparingly  with  oil,  cover 
with  paper  and  bake  slowly  for  20  to  30 
minutes.  Let  cool  in  the  gravy,  and  when 
cold  turn  over. 

If  using  Government  pickled  herrings  soak 
as  described  on  p.  52  (recipe  for  Herring 
Olives  Ragout)  and  do  not  add  salt. 

Paupiettes  of  Herring  and  Tomato  Sauce 

Materials. — 2  herrings,  a  little  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg,  2  oz.  bread,  half-teaspoonful 
chopped  herbs,  1|  oz.  fat,  3  tomatoes  peeled 
and  chopped,  1  egg  (or  1  teaspoonful  of  flour 
to  take  the  place  of  the  egg),  a  little  fish 
stock,  ,1  onion,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 


FISH  69 

Method. — Fillet  the  herrings  and  remove 
all  bones,  flatten  slightly,  remove  the  skin 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Soak  the 
bread,  squeeze  dry  and  mix  with  the  herbs, 
1  tomato,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  egg  (or 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour).  Place  the  fish  on  the 
table,  skin  side  upwards,  divide  the  stuffing 
to  the  four  fillets  and  roll  up.  Skewer  and 
cook  slowly  for  15  minutes  in  a  little  fish 
stock  made  with  the  bones  (see  p.  20). 
Cut  the  onion  into  small  dice  and  fry  in  1  oz. 
fat  or  a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  then  add  the 
remaining  tomatoes  and  fish  stock,  in  which 
the  herring  paupiettes  were  cooked,  and 
cook  until  1  gill  is  left.  Thicken  with  a 
little  more  fat  and  flour  mixed — 1  teaspoonful 
of  each  ;  boil,  season,  remove  the  skewer 
from  the  fish  and  dish  up.  Sauce  over  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

Dutch  Herring  Salad 

Materials. — Fillets  of  herring,  1  cold 
potato,  1  apple,  a  few  gherkins,  beetroot 
and  onions  in  equal  amounts,  1  or  2  spoonfuls 
of  mustard,  a  little  oil  and  vinegar,  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

Method. — Cut  the  potato  into  dice,  to- 
gether with  the  apple,   gherkins,   beetroot. 


70    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

onion  all  well  seasoned,  and  then  mix  in  the 
mustard  dressing  made  as  follows  :  Place 
the  mustard  in  a  basin  and  work  this  up  with 
the  oil  and  vinegar  to  form  a  creamy  sauce 
like  a  mayonnaise ;  then  put  in  the  other 
ingredients  and  mix  well.  Arrange  this 
salad  on  an  oblong-shaped  dish  and  place 
fillets  of  herring  over  it.  Use  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  gherkins  cut  small  to  garnish. 

Where  oil  is  not  available,  see  mayonnaise 
without  oil,  p.  48. 

Herring  Fillets  with  Vegetables 

Materials. — 1  filleted  fresh  herring,  1  oz. 
carrot,  |  oz.  onion,  1  teaspoonful  of  salad 
oil,  1  gill  fish  stock,  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped 
parsley. 

Method. — Slice  the  carrot,  cut  the  onion 
in  rings,  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
the  salad  oil.  Let  this  ''  sweat  "  for  a  few 
minutes,  but  not  fry  ;  add  the  fish  stock  and 
simmer  till  the  vegetables  are  cooked,  and 
then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Fillet  the  herring, 
remove  bones  and  arrange  in  a  gratin  dish, 
place  the  roe  on  the  top,  one  on  each  fillet ; 
season  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Arrange 
the  carrot  and  onion  alternately  on  the  top 


FISH  71 

of  the  roe  and  herring,  then  pour  the  liquid 
over  all.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  10 
to  15  minutes,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley, 
then  serve  without  sauce,  for  the  liquid  is 
sufficient,  and  there  should  be  no  more  left 
than  is  required  to  moisten  the  fish.  If 
desired  a  border  of  cooked  slices  of  potato 
could  be  placed  round  the  herrings  before 
the  liquid  is  added,  or  plain  boiled  potatoes 
should  be  served  with  the  fish. 


Filleted  Gurnet  and  Rice  Portugaise 

Materials. — The  fillets  of  2  gurnets, 
1  chopped  onion,  1  chopped  tomato,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  little 
oil,  1  gill  of  rice  (carefully  picked  over), 
1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice, 
salt  and  pepper,  a  little  water. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  a  little  oil, 
add  the  tomato,  parsley  and  herbs.  Place 
the  fillets  of  gurnet,  preferably  small  ones, 
on  this  bed  of  vegetables,  and  cover  with 
water  and  either  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  steam  the 
fish  until  nearly  cooked.  Remove  the  fillets 
and  stir  the  rice  into  the  liquid,  which 
should  cover  it  well.  Rearrange  the  fillets 
on  the  top,  cover  with  a  paper  and  the  lid, 


72    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

and  cook  for  20  minutes.  Take  the  fillets 
carefully  out,  remove  the  herbs,  and  lightly 
mix  the  rice  with  a  fork,  and  then  dish  up, 
arranging  the  fillets  neatly  on  the  top. 

Baked  Filleted  Whiting  with  Potatoes 

Materials. — Fillets  of  whiting,  a  few  sliced 
cooked  potatoes,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  juice  of  a  lemon,  melted  butter 
sauce  (see  p.  46),  a  little  oil  or  fat,  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Grease  a  gratin  dish,  place  the 
fillets  of  whiting  in  the  centre  with  the  skin 
side  downwards,  arrange  the  potatoes  all 
round,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  cover 
the  whole  with  a  melted  butter  sauce. 
Sprinkle  with  the  oil  or  melted  fat,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  for  about  20  minutes ;  then  add 
the  parsley,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  cooked. 

How  to  Cook  Perch 

Materials. — 1  perch,  a  little  onion,  parsnip 
and  parsley,  salt,  a  little  clarified  fat,  and 
water. 

Method. — Clean  the  perch,  open  on  one 
side  across  the  body  and  pass  the  roe  through 


FISH  73 

this.  Cut  some  Julienne  strips  of  onion, 
parsnip  and  parsley  stalk,  and  fry  in  a 
little  fat  without  colouring  them.  Add 
sufficient  water  to  half  cover  the  fish,  and 
salt  at  the  rate  of  ^  oz.  per  quart.  Bring 
the  water  to  the  boil,  and  then  add  the  fish. 
Boil  fast  at  first,  then,  when  nearly  cooked, 
slower.  (A  perch  of  1  lb.  takes  20  minutes.) 
Dish  up  the  fish,  reduce  the  liquor  until 
there  is  sufficient  left  to  moisten  the  fish, 
then  pour  this  over  and  serve. 

Golden  Bream 

Materials. — 1  bream,  a  little  chopped 
onion  and  parsley,  a  little  oil,  1  tomato, 
1  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  1  or  2 
finely  chopped  mushrooms,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  little  water,  1  oz.  fat,  1  teaspoonful 
of  flour. 

Method.  — Scale  and  fillet  the  bream,  season 
the  fillets,  sprinkle  with  the  onion  and 
parsley  and  baste  with  oil.  Let  the  fish 
stand  for  an  hour  or  two  to  let  the  seasoning 
soak  in  thoroughly.  Now  pour  the  oil 
from  the  fish  into  a  baking  dish,  preferably 
of  stoneware,  and  when  hot  pass  the  fillets 
through  this  oil  both  sides,  leaving  them  in 
it  with   the   skin   side   upwards.     Sprinkle 


74    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

with  the  tomato  and  mushrooms,  the  lemon 
juice  and  a  little  water,  and  bake  in  the 
oven,  basting  from  time  to  time.  When 
done,  mix  the  fat,  flour  and  anchovy  sauce 
with  the  gravy  and  baste  again,  then  put 
back  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve  in  the  dish.  If  the  gravy  evaporates 
too  quickly,  add  a  little  water. 

Roast  Bream  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Materials. — 1  bream,  2  oz.  bread,  oil  for 
basting,  ^  oz.  flour,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  nut- 
meg, salt  and  pepper,  2  peeled  and  chopped 
onions,  3  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes, 
1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  anchovy  essence,  1  egg,  |  pint  of  water. 

Method. — Soak  the  bread,  squeeze  all  the 
water  out ;  add  to  this  1  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  and  fried  onion  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  parsley,  a  pinch  of  thyme, 
nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  also  1  peeled  and 
chopped  tomato.  Bind  this  with  the  egg 
and  stuff  the  bream.  Sew  the  belly  up. 
Place  in  a  greased  dish  or  tin,  season  with 
salt  and  baste  with  oil ;  then  bake  carefully 
for  about  30  minutes,  basting  from  time  to 
time.  When  done,  dish  the  fish  up,  and  re- 
move the  string.     In  the  tin  fry  1  chopped 


FISH  75 

onion,  2  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes,  and 
the  J  pint  of  water.  Cook  until  all  the  dried 
gravy  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish  has 
loosened-  Add  the  anchovy  essence,  mix 
the  flour  with  the  remaining  |  oz.  of  fat, 
and  add  this  to  the  sauce.  Stir  till  blended, 
and  give  only  one  boil.  Correct  the  season- 
ing if  necessary,  pour  over  the  fish,  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  If  any 
liquor  has  run  out  of  the  fish  into  the  dish, 
this  must  be  added  to  the  sauce  and  stirred 
well  in  before  the  sauce  is  put  over  the  dish. 

Baked  Bream  with  Devilled  Mock  Butter 

Materials.  — 1  sea-water  or  fresh-water 
bream,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  oil,  1  onion, 
a  little  made  mustard,  1  tomato,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcester  sauce,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  1  teaspoonful 
of  anchovy  essence,  a  little  chopped 
parsley. 

Method. — Season  the  bream  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  baste  with  oil.  Let  lie  in  a 
dish  which  will  stand  the  heat  of  the  oven 
for  1  hour,  so  that  the  salt  may  penetrate 
right  through  the  fish.  Place  in  the  oven, 
and  bake  carefully,  basting  from  time  to 
time.     Prepare,  in  the  meantime,  the  follow- 


76    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

ing  mock  butter  :  Chop  the  onion  finely 
and  cook  in  a  little  oil,  add  to  this  the 
tomato  finely  chopped,  and  cook  until  nearly 
dry,  then  add  the  Worcester  sauce,  mush- 
room ketchup,  a  little  made  mustard,  and 
the  anchovy  sauce,  or  a  chopped  Gorgona 
anchovy,  and  a  dust  of  freshly  milled  pepper. 
Mix  this,  and  when  the  fish  is  nearly  done 
pour  the  mixture  over  it,  and  baste  a  few 
minutes  until  the  fish  is  cooked.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  baked.  The  best  accompani- 
ment to  this  fish  is  a  boiled  potato. 

Eels  with  Mock  Cream  Sauce 

Materials. — ^A  few  onions,  1  eel  cut  in 
pieces,  a  little  stock,  seasoning  and  spice,  a 
little  oil  and  grated  horse-radish,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  unsweetened 
condensed  milk. 

Method. —Shred  or  chop  the  onions  and 
simmer  in  oil ;  add  the  eel,  seasoning  and 
spice,  and  a  little  stock.  Cook  until  the  eel 
is  done,  then  dish  up.  Add  to  the  liquor 
the  vinegar  and  horse-radish  without  further 
cooking,  which  would  destroy  the  horse- 
radish flavour.  Then  warm  up,  and  add 
sufficient    unsweetened   condensed   milk   to 


FISH  77 

make  enough  sauce  to  cover  the  eel.     Correct 
the  seasoning  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


Eels  (Russian  Style) 

Materials. — 1  eel,  a  few  onions,  1  sliced 
carrot,  a  little  oil,  seasoning  and  aromatic 
herbs,  J  lb.  tomatoes  to  each  pound  of  eel, 
1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

Method.— Shred  the  onions  and  carrot 
and  simmer  together  in  the  oil.  Add  the 
eel  cut  into  pieces  of  about  2  inches  long, 
the  fins  having  been  carefully  trimmed,  and 
simmer  all  together,  then  add  the  seasoning, 
aromatic  herbs  and  the  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  chopped  finely  (the  seeds  removed). 
When  the  vegetable  is  cooked  add  the 
vinegar,  and  simmer  for  about  15  minutes 
longer.  If  the  dish  is  desired  cold,  serve 
garnished  with  gherkins. 

Filleted  Sole  with  Cucumber 

Materials.— 1  filleted  sole  (or  any  other 
white  fish),  a  little  salt,  1  egg,  a  few  bread- 
crumbs, 1  cucumber,  a  little  oil,  lemon 
juice,  a  little  coarsely-chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Season  the  filleted  sole  with 
salt,  brush  over  with  egg  and  pass  through 


78     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

the  breadcrumbs.  Peel  and  slice  the 
cucumber  as  thick  as  half  a  crown.  Heat 
some  oil  in  a  frying-pan  and  fry  the  fillets 
to  a  light  golden  colour  both  sides  ;  then  re- 
move, and  fry  the  cucumber  also.  Dish  up  the 
fish  and  arrange  the  cucumber  on  the  fillets, 
one  overlapping  the  other.  Sprinkle  with 
parsley ;  if  necessary,  add  a  little  fat  to  what 
is  already  in  the  frying-pan,  brown  it,  then 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  pour  over  the  fish. 

Creamed  Crab^  Lobster  or  Salmon  (without 
Cream) 

Materials. — Fresh  or  tinned  crab,  a  small 
onion,  |  oz.  fat,  about  1  gill  of  milk,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  1  dessertspoonful  of 
flour,  half-teaspoonful  of  paprika  pepper, 
quarter-teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  salt, 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  hot  toast. 

Method. — Chop  the  onion  finely  and  fry 
lightly  in  the  fat ;  add  the  flour  and  stir 
until  thoroughly  mixed  and  lightly  coloured. 
Add  the  pepper  and  mustard.  Stir  into  this 
sufficient  milk  to  obtain  a  thick  sauce  ;  add 
twice  as  much  crab  meat  as  there  is  sauce, 
well  drain,  season  with  salt,  and  simmer  till 
thoroughly  hot.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and 
serve  on  hot  toast. 


FISH  79 

Fresh  or  tinned  lobster  or  tinned  salmon 
is  excellent  served  in  like  manner. 

Kipper  Salad  (Cold) 

Materials.— 1  filleted  kipper,  1  lettuce, 
some  potato  salad  (see  p.  165),  a  few  slices 
of  beetroot,  a  few  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little 
chopped  herbs,  pepper  and  salad  dressing, 
a  little  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoonful  of 
Tarragon  vinegar. 

Method. — Remove  the  skin  and  bones  of 
the  kipper,  place  the  fillets  in  an  earthenware 
dish  and  add  the  onion,  pepper  and  vinegar. 
Cover  with  paper  and  put  in  an  oven  for  10 
minutes,  then  let  cool  in  the  liquor.  Shred 
the  lettuce  and  dress  with  a  plain  dressing. 
Make  a  border  with  this,  and  place  the 
potato  salad  made  with  a  cream  dressing 
in  the  centre.  Put  the  fillets  of  kipper  on 
top,  sprinkle  with  chopped  herbs  and  place 
quarters  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  slices  of 
beetroot  round. 

Mussels  and  Rice 

Materials. — 1  pint  of  mussels,  1  gill  of 
raw  rice,  1  oz.  chopped  onion,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  oil. 

Method. — When  the  mussels  are  scraped 


80    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

and  well  washed,  place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  without  adding  any 
moisture.  Cover  the  pan  and  leave  it  until 
the  mussel  shells  open.  Remove  the  shells 
and  cut  out  the  suckers  (hair-like  substance). 
Fry  the  onion  in  the  oil,  add  the  rice,  mix 
well.  Then  cover  with  the  mussel  stock 
(the  liquid  which  by  cooking  has  been 
extracted  from  the  mussels),  adding  water 
if  necessary,  and  cook  as  directed  for  herring 
olives  with  rice  (p.  66). 

How  to  Use  a  Tin  of  Salmon  (12  oz.) 

Open  the  tin  at  the  side  instead  of  the 
top  so  that  the  whole  contents  can  slide 
out  of  the  tin.  Place  it  on  a  plate ;  care- 
fully remove  skin  and  bone  by  splitting 
the  salmon ;  reserve  the  best  pieces  for 
au  gratiUj  the  next  best  for  salad  or  scallops, 
the  smaller  pieces  for  cakes  and  the  re- 
mainder for  sandwiches. 

Cheese  is  an  important  part  of  these 
dishes,  but  must  be  omitted  when  it  is  scarce. 

(1)  Salmon  Baked  (for  three  Persons) 

Materials. — Best  pieces  of  salmon,  white 
sauce    (p.     41),    pepper,    a    few    drops    of 


FISH  81 

lemon  juice,  a  little  grated  cheese  or 
crumbs. 

Method. — Place  the  pieces  of  salmon  in  a 
fireproof  dish,  previously  lined  with  white 
sauce.  Add  pepper  to  taste  and  lemon 
juice,  cover  with  white  sauce  and  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  brown. 

The  dish  should  be  placed  in  another 
containing  water  while  cooking. 

(2)  Scalloped  Salmon  (for  two  Persons) 

Materials.  — Salmon,  mashed  potatoes,  a 
little  oil,  white  sauce  (p.  41),  cheese  or 
breadcrumbs,  salt  to  taste. 

Method. — Make  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes  on  a  scallop  shell  by  using  a 
forcing  bag  and  tube.  Fill  the  centre  with 
salmon  and  white  sauce  mixed,  well  season, 
sprinkle  the  fish  with  crumbs  or  cheese, 
baste  with  oil,  then  bake  to  a  nice  brown 
colour. 

The  shells  should  be  placed  in  such  a 
position  that  the  sauce  cannot  run  over. 
The  best  method  is  to  place  the  shell  in  a 
small  heap  of  salt,  which  suffers  nothing  by 
being  heated. 


82    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

(3)  Salmon  Salad  (for  two  Persons) 

Materials. — ^A  little  green  salad,  mustard 
and  cress,  chopped  parsley  and  salad  dress- 
ing, potato  salad  or  pulse,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
some  pieces  of  salmon,  a  little  vinegar  and 
beetroot,  mayonnaise  sauce  (see  p.  47). 

Method. — Place  the  green  salad,  mustard 
and  cress,  potato  salad  or  pulse  with  the 
salmon,  previously  seasoned  and  basted 
with  vinegar.  Cover  with  mayonnaise  sauce 
and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  egg,  beetroot 
and  chopped  parsley. 

(4)  Salmon  Cakes  (for  two  or  three  Persons) 

Ma/mai^. —Trimmings  of  salmon,  an 
equal  amount  of  cold  polenta  (p.  121),  1  egg, 
a  little  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  flour  or  crumbs, 
and  fat. 

Method. — ^Mix  the  salmon,  previously 
drained  on  a  cloth,  with  the  cold  polenta, 
to  which  add  the  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  nut- 
meg to  taste  (no  parsley).  When  well  mixed 
shape  into  cakes,  flour  or  crumb  them. 
Place  on  a  baking-sheet,  brush  over  with  fat, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Turn 
over  if  necessary. 


FISH  83 

(5)  Sandwich  Filling  (for  twelve  Square 
Sandwiches) 

Materials.  — Salmon  skins  and  bones,  1  oz. 
fat,  a  little  cooked  dry  rice  and  cochineal, 
salt,  cayenne  and  anchovy  essence. 

Method. — Crush  all  skins  and  bones  finely, 
pass  through  a  mincer  three  times,  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  cooked  dry  rice.  Add  the 
fat,  salt,  cayenne,  anchovy  essence  and  a  few 
drops  of  cochineal.  Pass  through  a  sieve, 
place  in  a  basin  and  use  for  sandwiches. 

Fish  in  Batter 

Cold  boiled  fish  freed  of  skins  and  bones 
and  flaked  may  be  mixed  with  Yorkshire 
pudding  and  baked  in  a  fireproof  dish. 
The  batter  may  be  made  with  or  without 
eggs. 


CHAPTER    IV 

MEAT  DISHES: 
WITH  BUT  LITTLE  MEAT 


It  is  skill,  not  expensive  material,  which  is 
the  first  necessity  in  the  kitchen. 


CHAPTER   IV 

MEAT  DISHES  : 
WITH  BUT  LITTLE  MEAT 

Methods  of  Cooking  Meat 

Large  joints  are  now  obtainable  only  by 
large  families  and  in  restaurants  and  in- 
stitutions. As  a  rule,  small  pieces  of  meat 
have  to  be  dealt  with,  and  the  housewife 
is  never  sure  what  part  of  an  animal  will 
be  available.  She  must  be  content  to  take 
what  she  can  get,  and  learn  to  cook  her 
ration  as  economically  as  possible.  Frying  is 
an  economical  method  of  cooking,  for  any 
juices  which  escape  are  reclaimed  when  the 
gravy  is  made,  and  the  process  is  saving 
of  fuel.  Only  tender  meat,  of  course,  can 
be  cooked  in  this  way,  such  as  steaks,  fillet 
steak,  sirloin,  ribs,  buttock,  thick  flank 
and  certain  parts  of  the  shoulder.  Cooks 
should  realise  that  meat  thickly  covered 
by  sinews  is  usually  very  tender  ;  leg  of 
beef  when  scraped  from  between  the  sinews 


88    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

is  very  tender,  and  when  minced  and  shaped 
into  small  steaks  is  more  tender  than  rump 
steak.  Other  parts  are  better  for  stewing 
or  stoving.  Braising  is  not  recommended, 
as  this  is  an  expensive  method  of  cooking 
and  needs  gelatinous  stock,  to  produce 
which  much  fuel  is  required.  When  stewing 
or  stoving  meat  cut  it  into  portions ;  natur- 
ally, then,  the  cooking  takes  less  time,  and  the 
meat  will  be  more  juicy  than  when  larger 
pieces  are  cooked.  All  meat  produces  fat, 
however  lean  it  may  appear,  and  this  should 
be  carefully  preserved,  for  it  will  be  required 
when  cooking  vegetables  (fresh  or  dried), 
all  of  which  are  deficient  in  fat.  When 
stock  is  made  with  meat,  as  for  the  French 
pot-aU'feu,  the  meat  should  be  placed  in 
boiling  water  to  seal  it  up,  thus  preserving 
the  flavour.  Cooks  should  realise  that  the 
flavour  of  meat  is  soon  lost  by  over-cooking, 
and  consequently  if  the  fluid  extracts  are 
allowed  to  boil  freely  the  essential  meaty 
flavour  is  destroyed. 

Casserole  cooking,  or  "  stoving  "  by  gentle 
heat,  is  most  suitable  for  tough  meat,  and 
requires  very  little  or  no  water.  As  the 
meat  becomes  warm  its  own  moisture  runs 
freely,  and  after  a  little  while  the  meat  will 
practically  swim  in  liquid.     The  flesh  then 


MEAT  DISHES  89 

is  cooked  in  its  own  juice,  the  fat  is  dissolved, 
and  when  the  dish  is  done,  if  a  little  water 
is  added,  there  will  be  as  much  gravy  as  re- 
quired. The  fat  skimmed  off  is  of  course 
reserved  for  other  purposes.  Cooked  in 
this  manner,  half  a  pound  of  lean  meat  from 
whatever  part  of  the  animal  will  produce 
1  pint  of  good  gravy.  As  the  strongest 
gravy  contains  only  about  5  per  cent,  of 
solid  extractions,  there  must  remain  in  the 
cooked  meat  the  remainder  of  its  original 
food  value.  When  stock  is  made  from 
bones,  there  remains  a  certain  amount  of 
gristle  cooked  tender,  and  also  a  small 
portion  of  meat.  If  carefully  collected,  very 
nice  made  dishes,  such  as  croquettes,  rissoles, 
patties,  potato  meat  cakes  and  sausages 
may  be  produced  without  much  additional 
expense.  It  should  also  be  known  that 
bones  contain  fat  which,  when  stock  is  made, 
rises  to  the  surface,  so  that  bones  produce 
fat,  stock  and  gristle,  each  of  which  must 
be  used  to  the  fullest  advantage.  Sausages 
can  be  made  with  any  kind  of  meat  trim- 
mings— liver,  fat,  meat,  crusts  of  bread, 
beans,  peas,  etc.  The  materials  should  be 
passed  through  the  mincing-machine  and 
then  fried  or  baked.  They  may  be  crumbed 
or  rolled  in  paste,  dipped  in  batter  and  then 


90    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

baked.  No  skins  are  required  then,  and 
fat  for  frying  becomes  superfluous.  In  mak- 
ing sausages  the  bread  should  not  be  squeezed 
dry,  but  simply  drained  so  that  equal 
weight  of  water  and  bread  is  used — 8  oz. 
of  meat  plus  4  oz.  soaked  bread — ^that  is,  4  oz. 
bread  and  4  oz.  water — make  a  better  sausage 
than  that  generally  supplied  by  the  butcher. 
Instead  of  bread,  biscuit  meal  (see  p.  235) 
may  be  used,  or  cooked  porridge,  and  part  of 
the  meat  may  be  cooked  meat.  For  rissoles, 
rice  or  other  cereal,  or  potato  may  be  added, 
and  in  this  manner  a  large  variety  of  econ- 
omical and  nourishing  dishes  are  produced. 

When  making  meat  pies  the  above  remarks 
are  also  applicable.  If,  from  lack  of  meat,  a 
feeling  of  hunger  is  experienced,  cheese  or 
nuts  are  the  items  which  should  be  added 
in  small  proportions  to  the  diet.  Meat  is 
concentrated  food,  and  it  is  therefore  good 
for  the  general  health  of  the  country  that  it 
should  be  used  as  sparingly  as  possible ;  but 
as  the  desire  for  the  quantity  of  meat  to 
which  most  people  have  been  accustomed 
must  be  satisfied,  it  should  be  served  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  supply  the  necessary  bulk. 
The  following  recipes  are  arranged  so  that 
substantial  dishes  result,  although  they  con- 
tain but  little  meat. 


MEAT  DISHES  91 

Sausages  Made  with  Cooked  Meat 

Materials. — Remains  of  cooked  meat  (fat, 
lean  and  gristle),  equal  amount  of  crumbs, 
^gg  (1  ^gg  to  1  lb.)  or  1  oz.  flour,  a  little 
fried  chopped  onion,  a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 

Method. — Mince  the  meat,  add  the  crumbs, 
moisten  with  egg,  or  instead  of  egg  1  oz. 
of  flour;  season  well,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Finish  as  directed  for  fresh  sausages  (p.  91). 
The  onion  and  vinegar  help  to  bring  back 
the  flavour  which  the  meat  has  lost. 

Sausages  can  also  be  made  by  using  half 
fresh  and  half  cooked  meat. 

Sausage  Rolls 

Materials. — Sausage  meat,  short  paste. 

Method. — Roll  out  some  short  paste  (see 
p.  183)  and  cut  into  oblong  pieces  of  the 
size  desired.  Brush  over  with  cold  water, 
place  in  the  centre  across  a  roll  of  sausage 
meat  and  fold  over  with  the  paste  so  that 
the  ends  meet.  Press  down  the  edges, 
prick  the  top  once  or  twice,  and  bake  in  an 
oven  hot  at  first  and  then  cooled. 

Fresh  Meat  Sausage 
Materials. — 6  oz.  of  lean  meat,  2  oz.  fat, 


92    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

4  oz.  crusts  of  bread,  salt  and  pepper, 
nutmeg  and  spice,  a  little  flour. 

Method. — Mix  the  fat  with  the  meat, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  spice, 
if  liked,  and  pass  through  a  mincing-machine. 
Soak  the  bread  thoroughly  in  cold  water  and 
then  drain,  but  do  not  squeeze  the  water 
out.  When  drained,  mix  with  the  meat  and 
pass  again  through  the  mincer,  then  work 
by  hand  or  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  Leave  for  a  time  and 
then  shape  into  sausages,  flouring  the  hands 
and  board.  Fry  slowly  in  shallow  fat  until 
brown,  or  bake  in  the  oven.  A  coating  of 
batter  made  of  flour  and  water  and  then 
a  good  dusting  of  crumbs  improves  their 
appearance  and  size. 

A  sausage  should  always  be  left  after 
mixing  before  it  is  cooked,  otherwise  it 
shrinks  too  much. 

FIVE  DISHES  FROM  ONE  RABBIT,  EACH  DISH  FOR 
TWO  PERSONS 

(1)  Fillets  of  Rabbit  with  White  Sauce 
en  Casserole 

Materials. — Fillets  of  rabbit  (2),  some 
white  sauce  (see  p.  41),  vegetables  and 
potatoes,  pepper  and  salt. 


MEAT  DISHES  93 

Method. — Cut  the  fillets  from  the  back, 
flatten  slightly,  season  with  salt,  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  and  brush  over  with  fat.  Place  in 
a  casserole,  cover  it,  and  cook  the  fillets  on 
both  sides  without  colouring,  which  will  take 
about  5  minutes.  Dish  up,  cover  with  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  vegetables  and  potatoes. 

The  above  may  be  egged,  crumbed  and 
fried,  or  grilled  and  served  with  salad. 

(2)  Quenelles  of  Rabbit  (One  Leg) 

Materials. — 1  leg  of  rabbit,  J  oz.  fat,  2  oz. 
bread  panada  (see  p.  235),  rice,  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg,  white  sauce  (see  p.  41). 

Method. — Bone  the  leg  and  remove  all 
the  sinews.  Chop  the  meat  finely  together 
with  the  fat  and  bread,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg.  If  a  mortar  is  avail- 
able, pound  the  meat  till  thoroughly  blended 
with  the  other  ingredients,  or  put  three 
times  through  a  mincer  to  save  time.  Form 
into  the  shape  of  quenelles.  Simmer  10  to 
15  minutes  in  boiling  stock  or  salted  water. 
Drain  well.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  rice  and  pour 
a  creamy  sauce  over. 

(3)  Cutlets  of  Rabbit  (Second  Leg) 
Materials. — Same  ingredients  as  for  quen- 


94    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

elles,   pur6e   of   peas  as  garnish,  gravy   or 
tomato  sauce  (see  p.  43). 

Method. — Prepare  the  same  as  for  quen- 
elles. Shape  like  cutlets;  egg,  crumb  and 
fry ;  garnish  with  the  peas  (or  any  other 
garnish),  and  serve  with  gravy  or  tomato 
sauce. 

(4)  Stewed  Rabbit 

Materials. — 2  shoulders  of  rabbit,  2  pieces 
of  back  (near  the  neck),  1  oz.  of  fat,  a  little 
corn  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  potatoes, 
1  small  onion,  stock. 

Method. — Fry  the  pieces  of  rabbit  lightly 
in  the  fat  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  browned,  add  a  few  potatoes  cut  into 
dice,  and  the  onion.  Fry  all  together  care- 
fully. If  the  rabbit  is  done  before  the 
vegetables,  remove  it  and  cook  the  vege- 
tables longer.  When  done,  dish  up  the 
rabbit  and  garnish  it  with  vegetables.  Rinse 
the  pan  out  with  stock,  cook  till  all  gravy 
is  dissolved,  thicken  slightly  with  corn  flour 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  water  and  brought 
to  the  boil.  Add  this  to  the  boiling  stock  and 
stir  together  until  clear.  Pour  over  the  rabbit. 

This  dish  may  be,  like  so  many  others, 
cooked  and  served  in  the  one  casserole  to 
save  washing-up. 


MEAT  DISHES  95 

(5)  Rabbit  Soup 

Materials. — Rabbit  bones,  1  onion,  2  oz. 
raw  rice,  salt,  3  pints  water,  1  teaspoonful 
curry  powder,  J  oz.  corn  flour. 

Method. — To  make  the  bones  into  stock, 
fry  them  with  the  onion  and  curry  powder 
and  cover  with  the  water.  Add  rice  and 
salt  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  tender.  To 
do  this  well  takes  one  hour.  Strain  the 
liquid  into  a  basin  and  remove  all  the  bones 
with  the  meat.  Crush  the  rice  through  a 
sieve  or  mincer,  return  to  the  soup,  correct 
the  seasoning,  and  thicken  slightly  with  corn 
flour. 

Patties  (Four  Small) 

(Made  of  Meat  off  Bones  used  for 
Soup) 

Pick  all  flesh  off  the  bones,  chop  finely, 
mix  with  tomato,  brown  or  curry  sauce 
(see  p.  41),  and  place  in  patty  cases  or  make 
into  rissoles  or  other  made  dish. 

Cobbler's  Pie 

Materials  (For  Paste). — 3  oz.  suet  or 
clarified  fat,  8  oz.  self-raising  flour,  8  oz. 
dry  mashed  potatoes,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 


96    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

(For  Pie  Filling). — 4  oz.  or  more  of  gristle 
taken  from  bones  which  have  been  used  for 
stock,  1  or  2  oz.  onion,  ^  oz.  dripping,  1  lb. 
potatoes,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  J  oz.  flour. 
Method. — Line  the  sides  of  a  pie  dish  or 
baking-tin  with  a  suet  paste  made  of  the 
mashed  potatoes,  suet,  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Do  not  use  any  water  to  mix.  Fry  the 
onion  in  the  dripping;  when  this  begins  to 
cook,  add  the  flour,  and  fry  to  a  fawn  colour, 
then  add  the  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  cooked 
or  raw,  and  cover  with  water  or  stock ; 
season  to  taste,  also  add  the  gristle  minced  or 
cut  small.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
done.  Fill  the  pie  dish  with  the  mixture, 
arrange  a  layer  of  cooked  sliced  potatoes  on 
the  top,  and  bake  for  30  minutes.  The  same 
dish  can  be  made  by  filling  all  the  ingredients 
in  without  first  cooking  them,  covering  the 
pie  with  an  old  plate  or  dish.  When  nearly 
done  remove  the  plate,  to  allow  the  surface 
to  colour.  In  that  case  the  time  for  cooking 
will  be  1  hour.  Savoury  herbs  can  be  added, 
and  just  a  sprinkling  of  vinegar  or  Wor- 
cester sauce  will  add  piquancy  to  the  boiled 
gristle. 

Meat  and  Potato  Flan 

Materials. — Potato  pie  crust  (see  p.  181), 


MEAT  DISHES  97 

mixture  as  described  for  cobbler's  pie  (see 
p,  95),  slices  of  cooked  potato,  a  little  fat 
to  baste,  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Line  a  tin  plate  with  potato- 
pie  crust.  Prepare  the  mixture  as  described 
for  cobbler's  pie  ;  fill  the  plate  with  this, 
and  cover  with  slices  of  cooked  potato. 
Baste  with  fat  and  bake  to  a  nice  colour. 
Serve  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Potato  Pancakes  with  Bacon 

Materials. — 1  lb.  raw  potatoes,  4  oz. 
bacon,  1  egg^  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  ^  lb. 
self-raising  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Method. — Place  the  lemon  juice  in  a  basin, 
and  grate  the  potatoes  into  it.  Add  the 
egg,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
when  mixed  add  the  flour.  First  fry  the 
bacon,  then  use  the  bacon  fat  to  fry  the 
pancakes.  This  quantity  will  make  about 
12  small  pancakes.  The  potato  pancakes  can 
also  be  served  with  sweet  syrup,  in  which  case 
leave  out  the  pepper  and  nutmeg.  With 
minced  meat,  cooked  ham  or  cheese  folded 
inside,  they  make  a  good  breakfast  dish. 

Potato  Stew  and  Bacon 

Materials. — 1    lb.    raw    potatoes,    2    oz. 
7 


98    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

bacon,  |  pint  cold  water,  |  oz.  flour,  salt, 
pepper  and  savoury  spice,  2  to  4  oz.  onion, 
a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Cut  the  bacon  into  small  blocks 
and  boil  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  for  1  or 
2  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water,  put  the 
bacon  back  in  the  pan,  and  allow  to  fry 
until  the  fat  has  partially  melted,  and  then 
add  the  onion  cut  into  dice,  and  fry  to  a 
light  colour.  Now  add  the  flour  and  again 
fry  to  a  fawn  colour.  Pour  on  the  cold 
water,  bring  to  the  boil  while  stirring,  and 
add  the  potatoes  cut  into  quarters.  The 
moisture  should  be  level  with  the  potatoes ; 
if  not,  add  more  water.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  savoury  spice.  Cook 
freely  until  the  potatoes  are  done,  and  serve 
sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Bully  Beef  Stew 

Materials. — Slices  of  beef,  potato  stew 
prepared  as  in  the  previous  recipe. 

Method. — Slice  the  beef  into  pieces  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  arrange  these 
neatly  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  over  the  potato 
stew,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  5  or  10 
minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

Heated  in  this  manner  the  beef  will  be 
whole  instead  of  in  shreds. 


MEAT  DISHES  99 

Two  Meat  Dishes  from  a  Breast  of  Mutton 
—Mutton  Broth  and  Stuffed  Roll  with 
Barley 

Materials. — Breast  of  mutton,  weighing 
1|  lb.,  1  dried  egg,  \  lb.  mixed  vegetables 
(carrots,  tvirnips,  onions  and  celery)  cut 
small,  2  whole  carrots,  2  quarts  3  gills  of 
water,  2  oz.  pearl  barley,  also  1^  gill  of 
pearl  barley,  |  oz.  salt,  |  oz.  corn  flour,  a 
little  cold  milk,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  1 
teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  a  little  pepper, 
spice,  capers  and  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Bone  and  skin  the  breast  of 
mutton  ;  place  the  broken  bones  in  2  quarts 
of  water.  Cut  the  boned  breast  into  an 
oblong  or  square,  mince  the  trimmings  with 
salt,  pepper,  spice,  parsley,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  soaked  and  squeezed  crumbs, 
mix  with  egg.  Open  the  breast  of  mutton 
to  make  it  sufficiently  large  to  make  into  a 
roll  with  the  stuffing  in  the  centre.  Tie 
with  string  and  place  in  the  water  with  the 
bones  ;  add  the  salt  and  2  oz.  barley,  and 
cook  for  1  hour. 

Place  in  a  perfectly  clean  tin  1|  gill 
barley,  cover  with  3  gills  water,  and  add  salt. 
Cover  with  a  muslin  and  the  lid,  and  then 
place  the  tin  in  the  broth,   adding  the   2 


100     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

whole  carrots  and  the  mixed  vegetables. 
Cook  until  done.  Prepare  a  caper  sauce 
with  I  pint  of  the  stock  thickened  with  corn- 
flour mixed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
season,  and  add  the  vinegar  and  some 
capers.  Dish  up  the  mutton  cut  into  six 
slices,  garnish  with  the  barley  from  the  tin 
and  the  carrots  cut  into  quarters.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  meat,  or  serve  separately. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  to  the 
soup. 

Meat  and  Maize  Cutlet 

Materials. — 4  oz.  chopped  meat  (cooked 
or  raw),  |  oz.  fat,  8  oz.  maize  semolina, 
1  oz.  chopped  onion,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
pepper,  1  pint  of  water,  J  oz.  salt. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat,  add 
the  chopped  meat,  and  fry  again  lightly. 
Cover  with  the  water,  adding  salt,  a  little 
pepper  and  nutmeg  and  the  maize  semolina, 
and  cook  slowly  in  a  double  cooker  or  in 
a  tin  placed  in  boiling  water  or  a  steamer 
for  1  hour.  Turn  out  the  contents  on  to  a 
dish  to  cool,  mix  the  whole,  and  shape  into 
cutlets.  Coat  with  batter  (made  of  flour 
and  water),  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  or 
place  on  a  greased  baking-sheet  and  bake 
in  the   oven  to  a  nice  golden   colour.     If 


MEAT  DISHES  101 

one  egg  is  added  to  the  mixture  after  cooking, 
the  cutlets  can  be  baked  without  crumbing. 
Serve  with  a  vegetable  sauce  or  gravy  (see 
p.  22),  or  when  served  with  a  haricot 
stew,  no  sauce  is  requiixd. 

Ox  Cheek  and  Haricot  Pie 

Materials. — 1  ox  cheek,  haricot  beans. 

Method. — Cut  the  cheek  into  |-inch  slices 
and  cook  as  directed  for  meat  gravy  (see 
p.  23).  \\Tien  brown,  add  as  many  steamed 
haricot  beans  as  desired,  cover  w4th  w^ater, 
and  simmer  till  thoroughly  blended.  Season 
to  taste  and  place  in  a  pie  dish.  When 
cold,  cover  with  short  crust,  and  bake  for 
20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  or  line  a  pie 
mould  with  pie  crust  (see  p.  181),  fill  with 
the  mixture,  cover  with  paste,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Patties  or  pastries  made  with  the  above 
mixture  make  a  pleasing  change  from  pies, 
and  are  useful  cold  for  the  pocket  lunches 
needed  by  so  many  war  workers. 

Savoury  Rice  with  Meat  or  Fish 

Materials. — Rice,  1  chopped  onion,  meat 
or  fish,  a  little  fat  and  grated  cheese. 

Method. — To  prepare  dry  rice,  either  with 


102    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

meat  or  fish,  fry  the  meat  or  fish  (which 
must  be  cut  into  convenient  pieces)  in  fat, 
and  when  sufficiently  cooked  take  it  out  of 
the  pan.  Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  the  fat 
without  colouring,  and  add  the  rice,  which 
should  be  picked  so  that  it  is  thoroughly 
clean.  It  is  best  not  to  wash  it,  but  if  it 
must  be  washed,  dry  on  a  cloth  and  fry  in 
the  fat  so  that  each  grain  is  covered.  Then 
add  the  quantity  of  liquid,  which  varies 
according  to  the  quality  of  the  rice,  from 
twice  to  five  times  the  measure  of  the  rice  ; 
thus  for  1  gill  of  rice  1|  to  5  gills  of  liquid 
may  be  required.  Now  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  season,  add  the  fish  or  meat,  and  cook 
from  18  to  25  minutes.  For  colour  a  little 
powdered  saffron  may  be  added.  Freshly 
grated  cheese  sprinkled  over  just  before 
dishing  up  improves  the  nutriment  of  the 
dish.     Cook  and  serve  in  a  casserole. 


Stuffed  Marrow 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  minced  mutton  or 
other  meat,  a  little  fat,  some  fried  onion, 
a  little  tomato  sauce  and  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Peel  the  marrow,  cut  into  pieces, 
parboil,  then  fry  in  a  little  fat  on  both  sides, 
and   drain.     Prepare  the  minced  meat,  to 


MEAT  DISHES  103 

which  add  some  fried  onion  and  tomato 
sauce  to  bind  ;  season  well.  Fill  the  marrow, 
sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs,  and  baste  with 
oil  or  fat,  and  bake. 

Fried  Liver  and  Onions  with  Rice  or 
Polenta 

Materials. — |  lb.  liver,  1  oz.  dripping,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  4  oz.  onion,  |  oz. 
flour,  I  pint  of  water,  1  dessertspoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Cut  the  liver  in  slices  I  inch 
thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
flour  it.  Heat  the  dripping,  and  when  hot, 
place  the  liver  in  and  fry  until  pearls  of 
blood  rise  on  the  surface,  then  turn  it  and 
fry  on  the  other  side  until  again  pearls  of 
pale  blood  show.  Take  the  liver  out  and 
dish  up.  Shred  the  onion,  and  fry  in  the 
pan  in  which  the  liver  was  fried,  stirring 
with  a  fork  until  the  onion  is  cooked.  Add 
the  flour,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
the  water  and  vinegar.  Stir  and  cook  for 
about  10  minutes.  Season  to  taste,  and 
pour  over  the  liver,  garnishing  with  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 

To  make  the  meat  go  further,  serve 
arranged  on  a  bed  of  savoury  rice  (see  p.  138), 


104    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

or  place  a  portion  of  liver  and  onion  on  a 
round  cake  of  fried  polenta  (see  p.  121). 

Cabbage  Stew  and  Liver  Dumplings 

Materials. — 1  savoy  or  other  large  cabbage, 
4  oz.  raw  chopped  liver,  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg  and  herbs,  2  oz.  shredded  onions, 
2  oz.  fat,  3  or  4  oz.  breadcrumbs,  1  egg. 

Method. — Clean  the  cabbage,  cut  into 
shreds  and  parboil ;  drain.  Put  1  oz.  fat 
into  a  saucepan,  and  when  hot  add  the 
shredded  onions,  and  sweat  without  allowing 
them  to  take  colour.  Add  the  cabbage, 
salt,  pepper,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
water,  cover  with  the  lid  and  bring  to 
the  boil,  then  simmer.  Cream  1  oz.  fat 
with  the  egg,  add  the  liver,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  herbs,  and  add  sufficient 
breadcrumbs  to  stiffen  the  mixture.  Shape 
into  balls,  roll  in  flour  or  breadcrumbs,  and 
place  these  with  the  cabbage,  and  cook  for 
80  minutes.  Dish  up  the  liver  dumplings 
to  form  a  border.  Cook  the  cabbage  so 
that  there  is  just  sufficient  liquor  left  to 
form  the  gravy. 

Veal^  Mutton^  or  Rabbit  and  Potato  I(agout 

Materials. — |   lb.    cooked   veal    or    other 


MEAT  DISHES  105 

meat  free  of  bone,  1  lb.  potato  gnocchi  (see 
p,  137),  4  oz.  onions,  1  oz.  fat,  |  oz.  flour, 
2  tomatoes,  1  pint  water,  salt,  pepper  and 
a  pinch  of  spice  or  herbs. 

Method, — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat,  add 
the  flour,  and  cook  to  a  nut-brown  colour  ; 
when  done,  add  the  tomatoes,  peeled  and 
cut  into  dice  (the  pips  removed),  then  add 
the  water.  Bring  to  the  boil,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper  and  spice.  Now  add  the 
meat  cut  into  dice  and  the  potato  gnocchi. 
Cook  freely  for  20  minutes. 

Meat  Loaves  and  Stewed  Beetroot 

Materials  (Meat  Loaves). — 4  oz.  cooked 
meat,  2  oz.  breadcrumbs,  1  egg,  1  oz.  fat, 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  (Beetroot). — 1  lb. 
cooked  beetroot,  2  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  1 
tablespoonful  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — Mix  the  cooked  meat,  bread- 
crumbs (fresh  or  soaked  and  squeezed  dry), 
egg,  fat,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  well 
together.  Shape  into  rolls,  place  in  a 
greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  w^ith  bread- 
crumbs and  fat,  and  bake  in  the  oven. 
When  done,  remove,  add  a  little  stock  to 
rinse  out  the  pan,  and  strain  the  gravy  over 
the  loaves,  and  garnish  with  cooked  beetroot. 


106    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Sheep's  Trotters 

Materials. — 4  scalded  sheep's  trotters, 
carrot  and  onion,  bouquet  of  savoury  herbs, 
1  clove,  6  peppercorns,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg 
and  chopped  parsley,  f  oz.  flour,  |  oz.  fat, 
J  gill  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Method. — Parboil  the  trotters,  then  place 
in  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boil  with  the 
carrot,  onion,  herbs,  clove,  peppercorns  and 
a  little  salt.  When  done,  remove  all  the 
bones,  and  prepare  a  sauce  as  follows  in  a 
casserole  :  Mix  the  flour  with  the  fat  and 
reduce  the  liquor  till  only  1|  gill  is  left. 
Add  this  by  degrees  to  the  flour  and  butter, 
then  add  the  milk  and  boil  for  10  minutes. 
Grate  a  little  nutmeg  with  the  lemon  juice, 
add  a  little  sauce  and  mix  well  together,  then 
return  to  the  remainder  of  the  sauce  and  boil. 
Add  the  drained  trotters  and  simmer  for  10 
minutes. 

Cooked  button  onions  and  mushrooms  may 
be  added. 

The  sheep's  trotters  can  be  made  into 
fritters  and  served  in  any  way  in  which 
calf's  head  is  served.  Minced  and  added  to 
a  vegetarian  Scotch  broth  they  form  a  sub- 
stantial and  nourishing  dish. 


MEAT  DISHES  107 

Fried  Ox  Cheek  or  Ox  Cheek  Fritters 

Materials. — 1  lb.  ox  cheek,  1  oz.  fat,  a 
little  egg  and  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Slice  the  cheek  and  place  it  on 
some  shredded  onion  and  1  oz.  fat,  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  spice.  Cover  and  let  it  "  sweat  "  ; 
add  water  little  by  little,  and  cook  and  turn 
until  the  cheek  is  done.  Let  it  cool  under 
a  heavy  weight.  With  the  gravy  make  a 
brown  sauce,  half  of  which  reduce  and  use  to 
coat  the  slices  of  ox  cheek.  Then  egg  and 
breadcrumb  the  slices  twice,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  serve  with  the  remainder  of  the 
sauce.  Fritters  can  be  made  by  coating  one 
slice  of  ox  cheek  with  sauce,  covering  it  with 
another  slice,  then  passing  them  through 
frying  batter  and  baking  them  in  a  hot  oven. 

Ox  cheek  makes  excellent  broth,  patties, 
salad,  etc. 

Meat  Rolls  or  Olives  with  Peas 

Materials. — Some  slices  of  raw  beef,  a  little 
salt,  pepper  and  herbs,  a  little  fat,  1  dozen 
button  onions,  2  oz.  bacon,  |  pint  fresh  or 
soaked  and  steamed  dried  peas,  little  potato 
flour  or  corn  flour. 

Method. — Cut  the  slices  of  beef,  flatten  and 


108    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

trim  them  to  an  oblong,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  herbs,  then  roll  up  and  tie  with 
two  strings.  Fry  them  lightly  in  fat,  add  the 
onions  and  bacon  cut  into  dice  and  blanched, 
and  fry  to  a  nice  colour.  Cover  with  water, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  for 
1  hour.  Remove  the  fat,  add  the  peas,  and 
cook  until  the  whole  is  tender.  Mix  a  little 
potato  or  corn  flour  with  some  of  the  cooled 
liquid  and  then  add  it  to  the  remainder  to 
form  a  slightly  thickened  gravy  ;  correct  the 
seasoning  and  serve. 

The  peas  could  be  cooked  plain  if  desired, 
and  then  |  oz.  flour  should  be  sprinkled  over 
the  rolls  after  frying  so  as  to  form  a  thickened 
gravy  without  the  final  addition  of  the  corn 
or  potato  flour.  Use  the  meat  trimmings 
inside  the  meat  rolls. 

Mock  Duck  and  Apple  Sauce 

Materials. — 4  slices  of  lean  mutton  weigh- 
ing 3  oz.  each,  stuffing  as  for  duck  (sage  and 
onions),  little  salt  and  pepper,  1  egg,  fresh 
or  dried,  or  J  oz.  flour,  a  few  thickly  cut 
slices  of  fat  bacon,  gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

Method. — Flatten  the  slices  of  mutton 
and  trim  to  an  oval,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Prepare  a  stuffing  as  for  duck,  and 


MEAT  DISHES  109 

bind  with  the  egg.  Fill  the  centre  of  the 
ovals  of  mutton  and  roll  up.  Cover  with 
the  bacon  and  skewer  them  into  shape. 
Roast  plain,  and  serve  with  gravy  and 
apple  sauce. 

Meat  Salad 

Materials. — Some  slices  of  cooked  meat, 
preferably  stock  meat  well  cooked  with 
plenty  of  gristle,  some  thinly  cut  rings  of 
onion,  sliced  beetroot,  potatoes,  tomatoes, 
cucumber  and  any  other  vegetable,  a  little 
salad  dressing  of  any  kind,  a  little  chopped 
herbs,  parsley,  tarragon  and  chervil. 

Method. — Mix  all  together,  baste  thor- 
oughly with  salad  dressing,  then  arrange 
neatly  in  a  salad  dish  and  keep  as  cool  as 
possible.     Sprinkle  with  chopped  herbs. 

Savoury  Maize  Roll 

Materials. — Suet  maize  paste  (see  pp.  182 
or  189),  sausage  meat,  vegetable  gravy  or 
vegetable  sauce  (see  p.  22). 

Method. — Use  suet  maize  paste  as  given  for 
maize  jam  roll,  place  the  sausage  meat  in 
the  centre  and  roll  up,  tie  in  a  cloth  and 
steam  for  2  hours.  Serve  with  gravy  or 
vegetable  gravy  or  sauce. 


110    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

PUaw 

Materials. — 1  oz.  fat,  1  oz.  chopped  onion, 
I  lb.  lean  mutton  (if  tough,  part  cook  it),  |  lb. 
peeled  tomatoes,  1  pint  stock,  J  lb.  rice 
(raw),  seasoning  to  taste. 

Method. — Cut  the  mutton  in  small  squares 
and  fry  in  the  fat.  Add  the  onion  and  rice 
and  stir  until  hot,  then  add  the  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  up  ;  season  and  cover  with 
the  stock  and  cook  until  meat  and  rice  are 
sufficiently  done — about  20  minutes. 

Other  vegetables,  such  as  artichokes  or 
aubergines,  may  be  added  and  all  cooked 
together. 

Stock  Meat  and  Rice  Croquettes 

Materials. — A  little  fried  chopped  onion, 
Worcester  sauce,  salt,  pepper  and  spice, 
crumbs  or  cooked  rice  or  potatoes,  batter, 
gristle  and  meat  pickings  from  soup  bones. 

Method. — \Mien  bone  stock  is  made  there 
remains  on  the  bones  a  certain  amount  of 
meat,  skin  and  gristle,  which,  although  it  has 
lost  its  savour  which  it  has  given  to  the 
stock,  has  still  a  certain  value  as  a  food. 
This,  when  mixed  and  added  to  fried  chopped 
onion  and  a  little  Worcester  sauce,  well 
seasoned   with    salt,    pepper    and    spice,    is 


MEAT  DISHES  111 

excellent,  and  when  mixed  with  crumbs  or 
cooked  rice  can  be  made  into  croquettes  or 
rissoles.  An  equal  quantity  of  rice  and  meat 
is  best,  or  some  mashed  potatoes  can  be 
added,  which  will  also  help  in  the  binding. 
Coated  with  batter  and  crumbed  and  fried, 
these  are  very  appetising.  If  they  are  to  be 
baked,  which  of  course  during  the  shortness 
of  fat  is  perhaps  the  only  way  to  deal  with 
them,  it  would  be  best  to  roll  the  stuffing 
into  a  very  thin  layer  of  paste,  brush  over 
with  water  and  then  roll  in  crumbs,  instead  of 
using  a  batter.  WTien  baked,  these  will  be 
suitable  for  breakfast  or  supper. 


CHAPTER    V 

MEATLESS  DISHES— CEREALS, 
PULSES,  ETC. 


It  may  be  that  with  increased  knowledge  we 
shall  feed  better  though  we  eat  less. 


"4 


CHAPTER   V 

MEATLESS  DISHES— CEREALS, 
PULSES,  ETC. 

Method  of  Cooking  Cereals 

In  cooking  cereals  often  much  valuable  food 
is  wasted.  Rice  for  curry  is,  after  boiling, 
drained  and  washed ;  thus  starch  and 
minerals  are  thrown  away  ;  or  if  cooked  in 
milk  in  the  usual  fashion  it  is  liable  to  burn, 
requires  much  attention,  and  considerable 
time  in  cooking  which,  when  gas,  oil  or 
electricity  are  used,  might  be  saved.  Much 
of  this  waste  may  be  avoided  by  adopting 
the  following  method :  Place  the  cereal 
in  a  tin — a  cocoa  tin  for  instance — add  as 
much  water  as  the  cereal  is  able  to  absorb, 
salt  according  to  the  moisture  added^  but 
much  less  than  is  generally  used,  cover  the 
tin  with  muslin,  and  then  with  the  lid,  so 
that  no  steam  or  water  can  escape,  or  any 
water  enter.  Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  and  allow  to  cook  according  to  the 


116    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

time  required.  (For  details  as  to  quantity 
of  water  and  time  of  cooking,  see  recipes.) 
It  will  be  found  that  the  cereal  will  be 
thoroughly  cooked,  every  grain  intact,  and 
the  natural  flavour  and  all  the  minerals 
preserved.  No  more  moisture  must  be 
added  than  is  necessary,  so  that  the  full 
food  value  is  preserved,  for  if  too  much 
moisture  is  absorbed  the  food  value  will 
be  reduced  accordingly,  and  the  sloppy 
mass  of  food  will  not  be  sufficiently  masti- 
cated. There  is  not  much  to  gain  by  soaking 
cereals,  except  tapioca  or  barley.  Rice 
grains  are  destroyed  by  soaking,  and  conse- 
quently break.  A  rice  pudding  prepared 
by  adding  milk  in  the  usual  proportion 
to  the  rice,  after  it  has  been  thus  cooked; 
and  then  baked,  will  be  creamy,  the  rice 
grains  remain  whole  though  thoroughly 
cooked,  and  the  flavour  such  that  no  sugar 
will  be  required.  By  following  this  "  tin 
method  "  of  cooking,  it  is  possible  to  produce 
a  good  substitute  for  breadcrumbs  with 
maize  semolina  (see  p.  231). 

Cooking  by  this  method  is  economical  of 
time,  material  and  fuel.  Many  tins  can  be 
placed  in  one  cooking  vessel,  so  that  when 
gas  is  used,  all  may  be  cooked  over  one 
burner. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  117 

Method  of  Cooking  Pulse  Food 

Pulses  prepared  in  the  usual  manner 
take  a  long  time  to  cook,  absorb  a  large 
proportion  of  water,  and  in  doing  so  decrease 
the  food  value  to  the  amount  of  water 
absorbed.  There  is  here  a  waste  of  fuel 
and  time.  It  is  usual  to  soak  pulse  food 
for  12  to  24  hours  to  allow  them  to  absorb 
the  moisture  lost  in  drying,  and  also  to  add 
a  certain  percentage  of  soda  to  soften  the 
skins,  which  harden  in  the  drying,  and  to 
soften  the  water.  Rain  water,  which  is 
already  soft,  does  not  require  this,  but 
otherwise,  as  the  pulse  contains  lime,  it  is 
advisable  to  add  a  certain  amount  of  soda. 
Water  in  which  potatoes  are  cooked  is  also 
an  excellent  medium  to  soften  the  skins. 
Often  the  pulse  begins  to  shoot  while  soak- 
ing ;  when  placed  in  boiling  water  and  left 
to  soak  this  does  not  occur. 

Pulses  should  be  placed  in  boiling  water, 
adding  one  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda  to  each  quart  of  water,  and  left  to  soak 
until  fully  expanded — that  is,  12  to  24  hours. 
In  soaking  Egyptian  lentils,  the  soda  is  not 
necessary  ;  the  husks  are  tender,  and  perhaps 
also  they  do  not  contain  so  much  lime  as  the 
other  pulses.     After  this  soaking  pulses  are 


118    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

easily  and  quickly  cooked  by  steam.  They 
must  be  washed  in  fresh  water  after  soaking, 
to  wash  the  soda  well  away.  Then  tie 
them  in  a  cloth  to  the  lid  of  the  ordinary 
saucepan  so  that  they  hang  over  boiling 
water.  There  should  be  sufficient  water  to 
produce  steam  for  the  time  required  for 
cooking  the  pulse,  and  the  water  should  not 
be  allowed  to  boil  violently,  for  if  the  water 
touches  the  pulse  it  hardens  them  and 
retards  the  cooking. 

Time  of  Steaming. — Lentils,  15  minutes  ; 
haricot  beans  and  butter  beans,  30  ;  split 
peas,  yellow  or  green,  20  ;  and  red  or  brown 
haricots  and  whole  peas,  from  30  to  50 
minutes. 

When  so  cooked  by  steam,  the  pulse 
absorbs  less  than  its  own  weight  in  water,  is 
thoroughly  cooked,  yet  every  seed  is  whole, 
and  can  be  easily  mashed  for  pur6e  or 
soups  and  requires  but  very  little  seasoning. 

When  eaten  in  this  way,  pulses  must  be 
masticated,  which  is  the  first  stage  of 
digestion,  whilst  when  served  in  the  usual 
broken-up  state  they  are  more  often 
swallowed  with  little  or  no  mastication. 
Pulses  contain  only  about  2  per  cent,  of 
fat,  therefore  they  should  be,  when  possible, 
accompanied  by  fatty  meat,  such  as  pork  or 


MEATLESS  DISHES  119 

bacon.  When  so  served  the  pulse  should  be 
allowed  to  simmer,  after  the  steaming,  in  the 
gravy  of  the  meat,  and  so  become  enriched 
with  the  fat  of  the  meat,  in  preference  to  being 
served  dry  or  stewed  with  added  fat  or 
stock.  When  fat  meat  is  not  available, 
other  fat  must  be  added. 

Peas 

Soak  in  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda  per  quart  of  water,  for 
12  to  24  hours  (potato  water  is  sometimes 
used  for  this  purpose,  in  which  case  bi- 
carbonate is  not  required).  Wash  well  in 
several  fresh  waters,  then  steam  till  tender, 
30  to  50  minutes. 

Haricot  Beans 

As  above.     Steam  for  30  minutes. 

Red  Lentils  (Egyptian) 

As  above.  No  soda  required  ;  steam  15 
minutes.  If  boiled  it  is  not  necessary  to 
soak  them.  Boil  in  an  equal  quantity  of 
water  (a  cupful  of  pulses  to  a  cupful  of  water, 
for  example),  and  absorb  all  water  by  slow 
cooking. 


120    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Rice 

Place  in  a  tin  with  Ij  times  the  measure 
of  water,  milk  or  stock  (very  little  salt). 
Close  the  vessel  as  tightly  as  possible  so 
that  no  water  can  enter  or  escape.  Place  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  for  20  to 
30  minutes. 

Barley 

Soak  with  twice  the  amount  of  moisture, 
seal  up  as  for  rice,  and  steam  for  40  to  60 
minutes. 

Note. — All  the  subsequent  mixtures  may 
be  served  as  rissoles,  croquettes  or  medallions. 
Croquettes  should  be  cork-shaped,  and  coated 
with  flour  and  water  batter  and  crumbs. 
Medallions  are  ball-shaped  first,  then  coated 
and  pressed  into  medallion  shape  with  the 
lid  of  a  cocoa  tin,  which  gives  it  the  correct 
shape. 

The  mixture  may  be  varied  by  adding 
some  of  any  of  the  additions  named,  such 
as  rice,  barley,  peas,  lentils,  eggs,  nuts,  and, 
if  the  substance  needs  to  be  enriched,  dried 
milk  powder  may  be  added.  This,  of  course, 
adds  greatly  to  the  food  value. 

These  preparations  are  satisfying,  easily 
made  and  appetising. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  121 

Rice  Savoury 

Materials. — 1  quart  water,  J  oz.  salt, 
I  pint  rice,  2  to  4  oz.  grated  or  chopped 
cheese,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Method. — Cook  the  rice  for  30  minutes 
in  salt  and  water ;  add  pepper,  nutmeg 
and  cheese  and  stir  till  creamy.  Turn  out 
into  a  dish,  and  when  cold  shape  into  cakes, 
egg,  crumb  and  fry,  or  coat  in  flour  and 
water  batter  and  bake  or  fry. 

Baked  Rice  and  Lentils 

Materials. — Some  cooked  lentils,  an  equal 
quantity  of  cooked  rice,  1  oz.  of  fat  per  lb. 
of  mixture,  a  little  dripping,  salt  and  pepper, 
gravy. 

Method. — Mix  the  rice  and  lentils  together, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the 
fat,  place  in  a  greased  baking-tin,  sprinkle 
with  dripping  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  gravy. 

Polenta 

Materials. — 1  quart  water,  |  pint  maize 
semolina  (yellow),  |  oz.  salt,  1  oz.  fat,  a 
little  grated  cheese  (if  this  is  added  fat  may 
be  omitted). 


122    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Method. — Boil  the  water,  add  salt  and 
fat  and  semolina  or  corn  meal  (yellow). 
If  white  maize  is  used,  double  the  amount 
of  maize  is  required.  Boil  for  15  to  20 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  or  place  in  a 
porringer  and  cook  for  1  hour.  Turn  out 
to  cool,  cut  into  slices,  and  flour  and  fry- 
in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  fat.  Sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  or  serve  plain. 

This  paste  is  an  excellent  substitute  for 
bread  with  poached  eggs,  rarebit,  etc.  It 
can  be  baked  or  fried  and  either  floured  or 
crumbed. 

Vegetable  Sausages  with  Pulse  and  Nuts 

Sausages  can  be  made  with  vegetables 
by  using  the  mixture  given  for  vegetable 
cutlets  (see  p.  169).  They  should  be  treated 
in  the  same  manner  as  described  in  the  ex- 
planation for  stock  meat  and  rice  croquettes 
(see  p.  110)  by  enclosing  the  mixtures  in  a 
very  thin  layer  of  paste  and  breadcrumbs, 
pressed  or  rolled  to  shape,  and  then  baked. 
In  this  manner  a  large  number  of  dishes  can  be 
made. 

Polenta  with  Potatoes 

Materials. — J  lb.  potatoes,  1  pint  of  water, 


MEATLESS  DISHES  123 

I  lb.  maize  semolina  or  maize  flour,  little 
cheese,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Method. — Boil  the  potatoes  ;  when  cooked, 
drain  and  mash,  but  reserve  the  water. 
Put  the  mash  and  water  together  (there 
should  be  1  pint  of  water),  add  the  maize 
semolina  or  maize  flour,  stir  well  and  cook 
thoroughly.  Add  cheese,  pepper  and  a 
little  nutmeg.  Turn  out  to  cool,  cut  into 
convenient  pieces,  coat  with  flour,  and  fry 
or  bake.  If  liked  a  little  onion  can  also  be 
added. 

When  cheese  is  scarce  it  must  be  omitted, 
and  the  onion  will  give  a  pleasant  flavour. 

This  is  an  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

Rarebit 

Materials. — |  pint  of  milk,  1  oz.  ground 
rice,  2  oz.  finely  chopped  cheese,  half-tea- 
spoonful  made  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  or 
cayenne. 

Method. — ^Mix  the  ground  rice  with  a 
little  of  the  cold  milk;  boil  the  remaining 
milk,  add  the  ground  rice  and  stir  until 
thick  ;  add  the  cheese  (cleaned  and  grated 
rind  will  answer),  stir  till  dissolved,  and  then 
add  the  mustard  and  salt,  pepper  or 
cayenne.     Place  the  mixture  on  pieces  of 


124    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

polenta  (see  p.  121)  and  bakeJi[l  a  golden 
brown. 


e^l 
issoles 


Maize  and  Cheese  Rissoles 

Materials. — Polenta  (see  p.  121),  a  little 
crumbs  and  batter  (see  p.  233),  rarebit 
mixture  (as  above). 

Method. — Place  the  cheese  mixture  between 
two  layers  of  polenta,  cut  into  convenient 
sized  pieces,  coat  with  thin  batter  and  then 
crumb.  Place  on  a  greased  baking-sheet, 
brush  over  with  fat,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  until  brown. 

Instead  of  the  cheese  mixture,  sausage 
meat,  potted  fish  or  potted  meat  or  mince 
can  be  used. 

Corn  Flour  Cheese  Mixture  for  Rarebit 

Materials. — |  pint  milk,  1  oz.  corn  flour, 
2  oz.  cheese  (chopped),  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne. 

Method. — Dilute  the  corn  flour  in  part  of 
the  milk,  boil  the  remainder  with  the 
cheese,  then  add  the  corn  flour,  stirring 
until  the  mixture  boils  again.  Add  the 
salt,  cayenne  and  mustard,  and  mix 
thoroughly. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  125 

Maize  and  Cheese  Savoury 

Materials. — A  layer  of  polenta  (see  p.  121), 
rarebit  mixture  (see  previous  recipe),  some 
stiff  frying  batter  (see  p.  234). 

Method. — Cut  the  polenta  into  two  equal 
sized  pieces ;  on  one  spread  a  layer  of  rarebit 
mixture,  cover  with  the  other  layer  and 
press  lightly  together.  Prepare  a  stiff  frying 
batter,  cut  the  polenta  into  blocks,  coat 
with  the  batter  and  drain  well,  place  on  a 
greased  baking-tin  and  bake  to  a  golden 
brown. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish,  very  easy  to 
make  and  highly  nutritious. 

Haricot  Bean  Stew 

Materials. — 1  oz.  chopped  onion,  1  oz.  fat, 
1  lb.  cooked  haricot  beans,  stock  or  potato 
water,  little  salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  |  oz.  flour,  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  |  oz.  fat,  add 
the  haricot  beans,  cover  with  stock  or  potato 
water,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  then  add  the  vinegar.  Thicken  the 
gravy  as  for  melted  butter  sauce  (see  p.  46) 
by  adding  the  fat  and  flour  mixed  (|  oz.  of 
each) ;  stir  with  a  fork,  simmer  for  5  minutes, 


126    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

then   dish   up   and   sprinkle   with   chopped 
parsley.  Cheese  may  be  added  if  obtainable. 

Peas  Stew  and  Lentil  Stew 

Materials  and  Method. — The  same  as  for 
haricot  bean  stew. 

Haricot  Bean  Pie 

Materials. — Some  short  paste  (see  p.  179), 
haricot  bean  stew,  a  few  chopped  nuts. 

Method. — Line  a  pie  pan  with  short  paste, 
fill  with  haricot  bean  stew,  to  which  add  a 
few  chopped  nuts.  Cover  with  paste,  and 
bake  for  20  minutes. 

Any  filling  can  be  used  for  pies  :  Peas 
and  beans,  peas  and  beans  with  vegetables, 
beans,  potatoes  and  cheese,  peas,  barley 
and  curry,  lentils  and  rice  with  onion,  etc. 

Timbales 

Line  timbale  moulds  with  short  paste 
(see  Chap.  VIL),  fill  with  filling,  cover,  and 
bake  20  minutes.  Turn  out  and  serve  hot 
with  sauce. 

Timbale  FiUing 
Materials. — 1  oz.  onion,  |  oz.  fat,  1  tea- 


MEATLESS  DISHES  127 

spoonful  curry  powder,  1  gill  cooked  barley, 
1  gill  cooked  lentils. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion,  fat  and  curry 
powder  together,  add  the  barley  and  lentils 
or  any  other  combination  of  pulse  and 
cereals.  Moisten  with  vegetable  sauce, 
and  simmer  until  thoroughly  blended. 
Cool,  and  use  for  filling  of  pies,  patties, 
etc. 

The  same  can  also  be  used  in  pie  dishes 
covered  with  potato  or  maize  semolina  crust. 

Oatmeal  Sausages 

Materials. — |  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  chopped  onion, 
1  or  2  oz.  chopped  suet,  |  pint  of  water,  1  gill 
vegetable  gravy  (see  p.  22),  2  oz.  medium 
oatmeal,  2  oz,  fine  oatmeal,  salt,  pepper  and 
spice. 

Method.  —  Fry  the  onion  and  fat  to- 
gether, add  the  suet,  water  and  vegetable 
gravy.  Boil ;  then  add  the  medium  and  fine 
oatmeal  mixed.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  15 
minutes,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  spice, 
and,  when  cooked  and  stiff,  turn  out  to  cool. 
Shape  as  required,  coat  and  crumb,  and  fry 
or  bake. 


128    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Oatmeal  Sausages  with  Stock  Meat 

Materials. — Equal  quantities  of  oatmeal 
sausage  mixture  as  above,  and  stock  meat 
(that  is  gristle  and  meat  that  hangs  to  the 
bone  after  stock  is  made),  a  little  seasoning, 
a  little  Worcester  sauce. 

Method. — Mince  the  sausage  and  stock 
meat  all  together,  season  highly,  adding  a 
little  Worcester  sauce  to  bring  the  meaty 
flavour  back,  coat  as  above,  and  fry  or  bake. 

Oatmeal  Canelons 

Materials. — 4  oz.  coarse  oatmeal,  4  oz. 
crusts  of  bread,  4  oz.  fine  oatmeal,  2  dried 
eggs,  4  oz.  chopped  apples,  pie  paste  (see 
p.  181),  2  or  3  oz.  chopped  suet,  salt  and 
pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  sage,  2  oz.  fried 
chopped  onions,  a  few  breadcrumbs,  vege- 
table gravy  (p.  22). 

Method. — Soak  the  coarse  oatmeal  and 
crusts  of  bread  separately  ;  drain  the  oat- 
meal, squeeze  the  bread  dry,  and  mix  together. 
Add  the  fine  oatmeal,  eggs,  apples,  suet, 
salt,  pepper,  sage  and  onions,  mix  well 
together  and  season  highly. 

Roll  out  some  pie  paste  very  thin,  cut  into 
oblong  pieces,  wet  with  water,  place  a  large 


MEATLESS  DISHES  129 

tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each,  and  roll 
up  like  a  sausage  roll.  Brush  over  the  top 
with  water  and  sprinkle  with  crumbs.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes,  and  serve  with 
vegetable  gravy. 


Baked  Oatmeal  Pudding 

Materials. — The  same  mixture  as  for  oat- 
meal canelons  (foregoing  recipe),  vegetable 
gravy  (see  p.  22). 

Method. — Grease  some  dariole^  moulds, 
line  with  crumbs,  nearly  fill  with  the  mixture, 
bake  for  20  minutes,  turn  out,  and  serve 
with  vegetable  gravy. 

Instead  of  suet,  nut  fat  can  be  used,  or  if 
nuts  are  used,  fat  can  be  omitted. 


Oaten  Savoury 

Materials. — 4  oz.  medium  oatmeal,  4  oz. 
soaked  bread  crusts,  2  oz.  chopped  suet, 
1  teaspoonful  crushed  sage  or  herbs,  1  oz. 
chopped  fried  onion,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
gravy  or  vegetable  sauce  (see  p.  22). 

Method. — ^Mix  the  oatmeal  with  the  soaked 
crusts  of  bread,  then  add  the  suet,  salt, 
pepper,  herbs  and  onion.  Mix  and  bake  in  a 
9 


130    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

greased  dish,  and  serve  with  gravy  or  vege- 
table sauce. 

Vegetable  Pie 

Materials. — |  lb.  carrot,  i  lb.  swede,  J  lb. 
onion,  4  oz.  cabbage,  a  sprig  of  celery  (cut 
into  small  pieces  or  diamond  shapes),  1  oz. 
fat,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  |  pint  of  cooked 
haricots  or  lentils,  1  tablespoonful  Wor- 
cester sauce,  1  tablespoonful  mushroom 
ketchup. 

Method. — Place  the  vegetables  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  fat  and  a  little  salt.  Cover 
with  the  lid,  and  stove  as  for  vegetable  stock 
(see  p.  20).  When  the  dried  sediment  is 
formed  at  the  bottom,  cover  the  vegetables 
with  water  and  add  the  cooked  pulse — 
either  haricots,  peas  or  lentils,  or  a  mixture 
of  them.  Add  the  Worcester  sauce  and 
mushroom  ketchup,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  together.  If 
the  gravy  does  not  thicken  sufficiently  by 
the  addition  of  the  pulse,  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  fat  and  flour  mixed  together  with  a 
fork  on  a  plate,  or  a  little  flour  mixed 
smoothly  in  water  will  serve  the  purpose. 
Perhaps  1  oz.  in  all  may  be  required. 

Place  the  whole  in  a  pie  dish  and  let  cool. 
When  cold,  cover  with  pie  crust  (see  p.  181), 


MEATLESS  DISHES  131 

and  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  the  crust, 
for  the  contents  of  the  pie  are  already 
cooked.  The  time  necessary  to  bake  the 
crust  will  be  quite  sufficient  to  reheat  the 
contents  of  the  pie. 

Stoved  Cabbage  and  Rice 

Materials. — 1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  shredded  onion, 
1  lb.  shredded  cabbage,  1  gill  water,  1  gill 
raw  rice,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — Heat  the  fat,  add  the  onion,  and 
"  sweat  "  together  until  the  onion  is  half 
cooked,  then  add  the  cabbage  and  water, 
also  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cover  the  saucepan 
and  place  on  a  gentle  heat,  and  simmer  until 
the  cabbage  is  nearly  tender.  Add  the 
rice,  stirring  with  a  fork  to  mix  the  rice 
and  cabbage  well,  and  cover  with  sufficient 
water  to  be  just  level  with  the  cabbage 
surface — about  1  gill.  Correct  the  season- 
ing by  tasting,  adding  sufficient  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  the  saucepan  with  a  cloth 
and  the  lid.  This  is  done  to  prevent  any 
undue  evaporation.  Cook  for  20  minutes, 
taking  care  that  the  heat  is  very  gentle  so 
that  the  contents  cannot  burn.  After  that 
time  the  whole  will  be  cooked.  Serve  as  a 
vegetable  or  in  place  of  meat. 


132    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Served  with  poached  eggs,  this  makes  an 
excellent  luncheon  dish.  Form  as  many 
pits  on  the  surface  of  the  cabbage  as  eggs 
required ;  they  must  be  deep  enough  to 
hold  the  egg.  Break  the  eggs  in  the  hollows, 
cover  the  saucepan  and  poach  until  the  eggs 
are  cooked.  Cook  this  dish  and  serve  it  in 
a  casserole. 

Rice  Balls 

Materials. — 1  quart  water,  J  oz.  salt,  |  pint 
of  rice,  a  little  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  1 
oz.  fat,  flour,  crumbs  and  batter  (see  p.  233). 

Method. — Boil  the  water  with  the  salt ; 
rain  the  rice  into  the  water  and  stir  until 
boiling-point  is  reached.  Let  the  rice  boil 
freely  for  30  minutes,  then  stir  again  to  mash 
the  rice  more  or  less  so  as  to  form  a  thick, 
creamy  substance.  Add  pepper  and  grated 
nutmeg  to  taste,  and  a  little  fat  if  available 
should  be  added — 1  oz.  is  sufficient.  Turn 
out  to  cool,  shape  into  balls,  using  a  little 
flour  to  prevent  the  mixture  adhering  to  the 
hands,  coat  with  batter  and  crumbs,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

Note. — Rice  cooked  in  this  way  and  mixed 
with  pulse  will  in  some  measure  reduce  the 
flatulence  which  this  legume  so  frequently 
causes. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  133 

Lentils  and  Rice  Balls 

Materials. — 1  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  1  lb. 
lentils  and  rice  (cooked),  a  little  mashed 
potato,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  few  bread- 
crumbs. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  and  fat  together  ; 
when  cooked  add  the  lentils  and  rice,  previ- 
ously passed  through  a  mincing-machine. 
To  this  add  sufficient  mashed  potato  to 
bind,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  heat  until  boiling-point.  Turn  out  on 
to  a  plate.  When  quite  cool  form  into  balls 
and  roll  in  crumbs,  place  in  a  baking-tin, 
baste  lightly  with  fat,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  brown.  The  oven  must  be  hot 
or  the  balls  will  not  cook  crisp  and  neatly. 

Creamed  Lentils 

Materials. — |  pint  milk,  2  whole  eggs  (or 
dried  eggs),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  some 
cooked  lentils. 

Method. — Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  to  the 
milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  creamy.  Be  careful  not 
to  boil  this  sauce,  otherwise  it  will  curdle. 
Add  the  lentils,  toss  carefully  while  heating, 
and  serve  sprinkled  with  parsley. 


134    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Curried  Pulse 

Materials. — 1  oz.  onion,  1  oz.  fat,  1 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  little  flour, 
some  cooked  pulse. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  fat.  As  soon 
as  it  begins  to  colour  add  the  curry  powder 
and  fry  together.  Then  add  the  flour,  and, 
when  mixed,  the  beans  (or  whatever  the 
pulse  is)  should  be  added  together  with  the 
liquid.  Finish  as  described  in  the  last 
recipe,  but  omit  the  parsley. 

Home-Made  Macaroni  (Nouilles) — 1 

Materials. — 1  lb.  flour,  |  oz.  of  salt,  a 
little  milk  or  water. 

Method. — Mix  the  flour  with  milk  or 
water  to  a  stiff  paste,  then  add  the  salt. 
The  best  way  is  to  start  with  three-quarters 
of  the  flour  and  then  work  in  the  remainder. 
Let  the  paste  rest  for  one  hour  in  a  cloth, 
then  roll  out  to  the  thickness  required,  and 
hang  over  a  rolling-pin  until  partially  dry  ; 
roll  up  like  a  roly-poly  and  cut  into  slices. 
Lay  out  loosely  on  a  pastry -board.  Boil 
sufficient  salted  water  to  cover,  then  boil 
the  macaroni  until  tender — 10  to  20  minutes, 
according  to  thickness. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  135 

It  is  preferable  to  cook  the  paste  in  a 
closed  pan  with  only  as  much  water  as 
it  will  absorb,  and  if  possible  a  little  fat. 
Macaroni  will  absorb  two  or  three  times  its 
weight  of  water,  so  that  if  that  amount  is 
added,  with  fat  and  seasoning,  it  will  only 
require  when  cooked  to  be  sprinkled  with 
cheese  or  tomato. 


Nouilles — 2 

Materials. — 5  oz.  rice  flour,  4  oz.  flour,  1 
gill  water,  a  little  salt. 

Method. — Scald  1  oz.  of  the  rice  flour  in 
water,  then  add  the  flour,  the  remaining 
rice  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  mixing  to  a 
very  stiff  paste.  Let  this  rest,  then  roll  out 
and  proceed  as  for  macaroni. 

How  to  Cook  Macaroni 

Parboil  the  macaroni,  drain,  then  place 
in  the  saucepan  and  cover  with  water,  stock, 
or  water  and  milk.  Season,  cover  with  the 
lid,  and  cook  until  tender — about  20  minutes. 
The  moisture  should  then  be  absorbed. 
Add  a  little  grated  cheese,  stir,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Instead  of  cheese,  tomato  sauce  or  gravy 


136    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

can  be  added,  or  the  plain  boiled  macaroni 
may  be  used  as  required  in  any  recipe. 


Potato  and  Macaroni  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  broken  macaroni,  8  oz. 
mashed  potato,  2  oz.  suet,  1  oz.  chopped 
onion  (fried),  2  oz.  chopped  nuts  (or  1  oz.  of 
chopped  cheese),  4  oz.  self-raising  flour,  1  egg, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  ketchup,  spice, 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Method. — Boil  the  macaroni  for  5  minutes 
in  salted  water,  then  drain ;  add  all  the 
remaining  ingredients,  mix  together,  add  a 
little  moisture  if  required,  and  steam  for 
2  hours.  In  place  of  the  nuts  1  oz.  of  chopped 
cheese  can  be  used. 

Savoury  Potato  and  Barley  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  barley,  8  oz.  dried 
mashed  potato,  2  oz.  chopped  suet,  1  oz. 
onion,  ^  oz.  fat,  4  oz.  self-raising  flour, 
2  tablespoonfuls  vegetable  sauce  (p.  22), 
1  teaspoonful  curry  powder  (or  1  table- 
spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup  or  Worcester 
sauce),  1  egg,  spice,  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — Steam  the  barley  for  40  minutes 
with  twice  its  measure  of  water.     Fry  the 


MEATLESS  DISHES  137 

onion  in  fat,  then  add  the  other  ingredients, 
mix  thoroughly,  and  steam  for  2  hours. 
The  pudding  is  served  with  vegetable  curry 
sauce  (see  p.  41). 


Savoury  Maize  and  Vegetable  Pudding 

Materials. — Maize  paste  (see  pp.  182  or 
189),  vegetable  preparation  as  for  vegetable 
pie  (see  p.  130). 

Method. — Line  a  pudding  basin  with  the 
maize  paste,  fill  with  vegetable  preparation  as 
for  vegetable  pie,  cover,  and  steam  for  1  hour. 

Any  filling  given  in  any  of  the  other 
recipes  can  be  used — potato  stew,  cobbler's 
pie,  also  apple,  rhubarb  and  any  other 
fruit.  Maize  requires  moisture  to  swell ;  it 
is  therefore  particularly  suitable  for  fruit 
pudding. 

Potato  Gnocchi 

Materials. — 1  lb.  potatoes,  1  egg,  1  oz. 
fat,  4  oz.  self-raising  flour,  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg. 

Method. — Bake  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  ; 
when  done,  cut  open  and  press  out  the 
pulp,  put  in  a  basin  with  the  egg,  fat,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg  and  flour,  and  mix  all  well 


138     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

together  to  a  dough.  Roll  into  small  balls 
like  hazel  nuts,  and  place  one  by  one  on  a 
sieve,  pressing  with  a  fork  to  form  a  curl. 
Boil  in  salted  water  for  10  minutes,  and  use 
as  for  ravioli  (see  p.  140),  or  put  in  tomato 
sauce  or  cream  sauce  and  bake.  The  egg  may 
be  omitted. 

Risotto 

Materials. — 1  oz.  chopped  onion,  1  oz.  fat, 
2  oz.  grated  cheese,  |  pint  rice  (about  |  lb.), 
2 1  pints  stock,  |  lb.  tomatoes,  a  pinch  of 
saffron. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat,  add 
the  rice,  and  heat  all  together.  Add  the 
tomato,  peeled  and  cut  up,  saffron,  1  pint 
of  the  stock,  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil, 
stirring  from  time  to  time,  and  adding  more 
stock  when  required.  Cook  altogether  for 
20  minutes.  If  desired,  cut  up  some  meat 
and  mix  with  the  rice.  At  the  finish  put 
in  the  grated  cheese,  boil  while  stirring  it 
in,  and  serve  at  once.  The  cheese  and  meat 
may  be  omitted. 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes 

Materials. — Macaroni,  a  little  stock  and 
clarified  fat,  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese. 


MEATLESS  DISHES  139 

Method. — Parboil  the  macaroni  in  water ; 
drain,  and  then  cover  with  stock  to  which  a 
nut  of  fat  is  added,  and  cook  for  18  to  20 
minutes  until  nearly  dry.  Then  add  the 
cheese.  It  should  be  dished  up  very  hot, 
and  a  ragout  of  tomatoes  placed  in  the 
centre.  A  piece  of  bread  is  the  only  other 
food  required  with  this  dish,  which  forms 
a  substantial  meal,  and  for  economy  is 
difficult  to  surpass.  When  dishes  of  this 
kind  are  served,  the  pudding  is  superfluous, 
and  only  a  little  fruit  is  needed  for  the 
sweet  course. 

The  fat  and  cheese  can  be  omitted,  but 
then  the  dish  loses  greatly  in  food  value. 

Nut  Roll 

Materials. — 4  oz.  bread,  2  oz.  gluten  flour, 
2  oz.  lightly  grilled  peanuts,  4  oz.  maize 
crumbs  or  breadcrumbs  substitute  (see  p. 
231),  salt,  cayenne  or  spice,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  2  soaked  dried  eggs,  1  tablespoonful 
cooked  rice  or  chopped  pine  kernels,  vege- 
table stock. 

Method. — Soak  the  bread  in  water  or 
milk,  drain,  and  cook  in  a  saucepan  to  form 
a  stiff  paste.  Add  the  gluten  flour  and 
peanuts,   pass  through    a    mincing-machine 


140    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

until  all  is  evenly  fine.  Add  all  the  re- 
maining ingredients  ;  tie  in  a  muslin,  leaving 
room  to  swell,  and  boil  freely  in  vegetable 
stock.  When  done,  unroll,  thicken  the 
vegetable  gravy,  and  serve  with  the  roll 
garnished  as  desired. 

Nut  and  Haricot  Pie 

Materials. — J  pint  soaked  and  steamed 
beans  (haricot,  butter,  or  brown  haricots), 
2  oz.  lightly  roasted  nuts,  1  oz.  chopped 
onion,  |  oz.  fat,  1  tablespoonful  tomato 
ketchup,  seasoning  to  taste,  pie  paste 
(see  p.  181). 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat,  then 
mix  with  the  remaining  ingredients.  Pass 
all  through  a  mincer,  season  highly,  and 
bind,  if  crumbly,  with  a  little  vegetable 
gravy. 

Line  a  pie  mould  with  pie  paste,  three- 
quarters  fill  with  the  mixture,  cover,  let  rest 
for  1  hour,  and  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  20  to  80  minutes. 

Ravioli 

Materials. — 8  oz.  flour,  a  little  salt,  pepper 
and    nutmeg,    a   little    milk,    some   cooked 


MEATLESS  DISHES  141 

spinach,  a  little  vegetable  gravy  and  grated 
cheese. 

Method. — Mix  the  flour  with  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg  to  taste,  to  which  add  sufficient 
milk  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste.  Let  it 
rest  a  while,  then  divide  into  four  pieces  and 
roll  out,  each  one  iV  inch  thick.  Have  ready 
some  cooked  spinach  ;  season,  and  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Brush  over  with  water 
two  of  the  sheets  of  paste  ;  mark  with  a 
cutter  of  1|  inch  to  2  inches  in  diameter, 
and  place  a  small  knob  of  spinach  in  each. 
Cover  with  the  other  two  sheets  of  paste, 
press  well  together  around  the  spinach,  and 
cut  in  squares.  Heat  sufficient  salted  water 
to  boil  the  ravioli,  and  cook  for  10  minutes, 
then  refresh  and  drain. 

Moisten  the  bottom  of  a  gratin  dish  with 
gravy,  and  arrange  a  layer  of  ravioli  and 
grated  cheese,  etc.,  until  all  have  been  used 
up  ;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  to  a  nice  brown  colour.  Cheese 
may  be  omitted. 

Tomato  sauce  may  be  used  instead  of 
gravy. 

Any  vegetable,  meat  or  fish  filling  may 
be  used  in  the  ravioli. 


CHAPTER    VI 

VEGETABLES,   VEGETABLE  DISHES 
AND   SALADS 


M3 


Waste  not,  want  not.    Familiar  words,  but 
none  the  less — true. 


CHAPTER    VI 

VEGETABLES,  VEGETABLE   DISHES 
AND  SALADS 

The  Conservative  Method  of  Cooking 
Vegetables 

General  Notes 

Vegetables  contain  minerals  or  salts  which 
are  necessary  to  health.  In  the  usual 
method  of  cooking  these  in  water  with  salt, 
and  sometimes  with  soda,  most  of  these 
salts  are  dissolved  in  the  water,  which,  after 
the  vegetables  are  cooked,  is  thrown  away. 
The  added  salt  gives  taste  to  the  vegetable, 
but  the  valuable  minerals  are  lost.  Cabbage 
after  cooking  contains  more  water  than  when 
in  a  raw  state.  The  soda  in  the  cooking 
destroys  the  finer  tissues  of  the  leaves,  the 
starch  is  washed  out  with  the  mineral  salts, 
and  what  remains  is  served.  All  greens  are 
treated  in  this  manner,  and,  consequently, 
lose     their     most     valuable     constituents. 

lO 


146    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Carrots  when  boiled  lose,  in  addition  to  salts, 
a  large  amount  of  sugar,  which  is  also  washed 
out.  The  onion  and  artichokes  fare  like- 
wise. Beetroot  and  parsnip  lose  the  greater 
part  of  the  sugar.  In  fact  all  vegetables,  of 
whatever  kind  they  are,  are  all  more  or  less 
wasted  by  being  boiled,  whereas  if  these 
vegetables  are  cooked  in  their  own  juice  or 
water,  of  which  they  contain  a  large  per- 
centage, the  flavour  and  the  minerals  are 
all  preserved,  very  little  additional  salt  is 
necessary,  and  the  natural  colour  of  the 
vegetable  is  maintained.  For  this  purpose 
all  vegetables  should  be  cut  into  small 
portions  and  placed  in  a  clean  saucepan. 
Water  may  be  added,  but  not  more  than  will 
evaporate  during  the  process  of  cooking, 
and  a  little  fat  of  some  kind  is  added — say 
half  an  ounce  for  every  pound  of  vegetables. 
A  lid  is  placed  on  the  pot,  which  should  be 
closed  as  tightly  as  possible  to  prevent  undue 
evaporation,  and  a  very  small  flame  placed 
under  the  pan  to  allow  for  simmering  only. 
Twenty  minutes  is  generally  sufficient  for 
cooking.  Vegetables  which  shrink  during 
cooking,  like  cabbage,  require  very  little 
water.  Carrot,  cauliflower  and  the  like  should 
be  covered  with  water,  cooked  till  nearly 
tender,  and  then  cooked  quickly  to  evaporate 


VEGETABLES  147 

excess  moisture,  so  that  when  done  no 
more  moisture  is  left  than  that  which  is 
required  as  gravy.  No  sauces  are  necessary, 
and  thus  a  saving  of  time  and  material  is 
effected. 

Vegetables  can  be  blended  with  rice  or 
other  cereal  by  adding  this  to  the  vegetable, 
with  as  much  liquid  as  the  cereal  will  absorb. 
In  this  way  many  appetising  dishes  can  be 
prepared  in  one  saucepan ;  meat  or  fish 
may  be  added  if  required. 

When  preparing  vegetable  stock,  the  vege- 
tables are  cut  small  and  "  stoved  ''  (see  p. 
88)  in  the  pot  with  fat  until  the  salts  are 
dissolved,  the  water  evaporated,  and  a  sedi- 
ment is  formed  at  the  bottom,  which  is  not 
unlike  the  gravy  from  roasted  meat.  The 
water  is  then  added,  and  the  whole  boiled 
for  10  to  20  minutes  (the  vegetables  are 
already  cooked  during  the  stoving).  Salt 
is  added  to  taste,  and  the  stock  is  then 
strained.  The  fat  added  rises  on  the  top  of 
the  stock,  and  should  be  skimmed  and  used 
again  for  a  similar  or  other  purpose.  The 
stock  is  very  similar  to  meat  stock  in  appear- 
ance and  not  unlike  in  flavour,  except  in 
sweetness,  which,  if  disliked,  may  be  counter- 
acted by  adding  a  small  amount  of  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar. 


148     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

The  vegetables  have  a  better  flavour 
after  the  stock  has  been  extracted  than 
when  boiled  in  water  in  the  usual  method, 
and  should  be  utilised  in  pies,  cutlets  and 
various  other  preparations. 

The  stock  will  be  excellent  for  sauces  or 
gravy  to  be  served  with  meatless  dishes, 
for  making  savoury  rice,  and  various  other 
preparations  for  which  stock  is  needed. 

Thus  we  have  here,  not  a  new,  but  a  little 
known  and  useful  economic  method  of  pre- 
paring vegetables,  easy  to  carry  out,  econ- 
omical of  fuel,  and  requiring  no  greater 
attention  than  other  and  less  conservative 
ways  of  cooking. 

Note.  — All  these  vegetables  may  be  cooked 
and  served  en  casserole  to  save  washing-up. 

Baked  Stuffed  Marrow 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  1  or  2  onions,  1  or 
more  tomatoes,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
garlic,  breadcrumbs  and  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  dripping. 

Method. — Peel  and  cut  the  marrow  in 
oblong  pieces,  size  as  desired ;  fry  both  sides 
in  a  little  fat.  Drain.  Chop  all  the  re- 
mainder of  the  marrow,  including  the  seed, 
also  the  onions,  and  fry  in  the  fat  in  which 


VEGETABLES  149 

the  marrow  was  fried.  When  all  is  melted 
down,  add  the  chopped  tomatoes,  a  little 
garlic,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  with  breadcrumbs,  cooked  rice 
or  maize,  and  moisten  with  sauce.  Fill  the 
pieces  of  marrow  with  this  mixture,  smooth 
the  surface,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
until  brown.  Serve  with  brown  or  tomato 
sauce  (see  p.  43). 

Vegetable  Marrow 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  |  oz.  fat  per  lb.  of 
marrow,  a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — When  peeled  and  the  pips  re- 
moved, cut  into  slices.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  little  water  and  the  fat.  Add  salt, 
cover  with  a  lid  and  cook  till  tender,  but  do 
not  overcook.  Toss  from  time  to  time  until 
half  cooked,  then  simmer  without  stirring, 
otherwise  the  marrow  will  become  a  mash. 
Serve  with  chopped  parsley. 

Marrow  au  Gratin 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  a  little  grated 
cheese,  a  little  fat. 

Method. — Boil  the  pieces  of  marrow  in 
salted  water  until  nearly  tender  ;   drain  on  a 


150    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

cloth.  Place  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese  and  fat,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
soft  and  a  nice  colour. 

Do  not  let  the  marrow  remain  in  the  water 
until  all  the  pieces  are  cooked ;  remove  them 
as  they  are  done.  They  vary  in  thickness,  so 
do  not  cook  alike. 

Or  cover  the  marrow  with  white  sauce  and 
then  sprinkle  with  cheese  (if  procurable), 
or  crumbs,  and  bake. 

Celery 

Materials. — |  oz.  fat  to  the  lb.  of  celery, 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  salt. 

Method. — Cut  the  celery  about  8  inches 
long,  carefully  trim  the  root  end  to  a  point. 
Remove  the  very  outside  leaves,  skin  the. 
remaining  outside  leaves  with  a  potato 
peeler  or  knife,  to  remove  all  the  strings,  and 
cut  into  two  lengthwise.  Boil  in  salt  water 
for  5  to  10  minutes,  then  refresh  by  placing 
in  cold  water.  This  is  done  to  whiten  the 
celery.  Wash  well  between  the  leaves,  which 
are  now  flexible,  to  remove  all  grit ;  tie  in 
bunches.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
water,  add  the  fat,  lemon  juice  and  salt, 
and  place  on  the  fire  to  boil.  Let  simmer  till 
tender,  and  when  nearly  cooked  let  the  liquid 


VEGETABLES  151 

reduce   so  that    only    sufficient    is   left    for 
sauce. 

Sprouts 

Materials. — Sprouts,  a  little  salt,  |  oz. 
fat  to  the  lb.  of  sprouts. 

Method. — Clean  as  usual.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  and  just  cover  with  water,  add 
salt  and  ^  oz.  fat  per  lb.  Cover  with  a  lid, 
boil  freely  till  nearly  tender,  remove  the  lid 
and  reduce  till  nearly  dry. 

Parsnips 

Cook  like  turnips  (see  p.  155).  A  sharp 
sauce  or  Lyonnaise  sauce  goes  better  with 
parsnips  than  white  sauce. 

Stoved  Leeks 

Materials. — A  bunch  of  leeks,  |  oz.  fat 
to  every  lb.  of  leeks  (a  market  bunch  of  leeks 
weighs  about  2  lb.),  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  a  little  salt. 

Method. — Clean  the  leeks,  split  in  halves, 
remove  the  dark  green  parts  and  wash  well. 
Parboil  in  salted  water  and  refresh  in  cold 
water.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  fat, 
adding  the  salt  and  lemon  juice  and  water  to 


152     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

cover.  Boil  freely  at  first,  then  slowly  until 
tender.  Reduce  the  liquid,  thicken  slightly 
with  diluted  corn  flour,  dish  the  leeks  up  and 
pour  the  sauce  over. 

Instead  of  lemon  juice,  vinegar  may  be 
used,  but  in  that  case  the  vinegar  must  not 
be  added  until  the  leeks  are  cooked.  Simmer 
for  10  minutes  after  the  vinegar  is  added. 

Stuffed  Onions 

Materials. — Some  onions,  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  chopped  mushrooms,  an  equal 
quantity  of  breadcrumbs  or  soaked  and 
squeezed  bread,  1  egg  to  1  lb.  of  mixture 
(filling),  1  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  spice  and 
seasoning,  a  little  fat  and  vegetable  stock  or 
water. 

Method. — Peel  the  onions,  parboil  in 
salted  water  for  5  minutes,  then  remove 
carefully  the  inside  from  the  root  end,  so 
that  only  two  layers  of  onion  remain.  Chop 
all  the  removed  onion  and  fry  in  a  little  fat. 
When  fried,  add  the  mushrooms,  fry  to- 
gether, and  then  add  the  breadcrumbs  or 
soaked  and  squeezed  bread.  Bind  with  the 
egg,  adding  parsley,  spice  and  seasoning  to 
taste.  Fill  the  onions  with  the  stuffing, 
sprinkle   with   crumbs,    place   in   a  greased 


VEGETABLES  153 

saucepan  with  a  lid  on  over  a  small  flame  to 
sweat,  and  let  fry  lightly.  Nearly  cover  with 
vegetable  stock  or  water,  season,  cover  with 
the  lid  and  bring  the  liquid  to  the  boil. 
Then  place  in  an  oven  and  cook  till  tender 
— 1  hour  or  more.  Remove  the  lid,  reduce 
the  liquid,  baste  the  onions  with  the  reduced 
liquid  and  bake  to  a  nice  colour,  then  remove 
the  onions  and  thicken  the  gravy  if  necessary. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  onions  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley. 

Any  kind  of  stuffing  can  be  used  for  the 
onions  instead  of  the  one  given  here.  For 
example,  the  onion  mixed  with  mashed 
potato  or  rice  and  seasoning. 

Purees  or  Mashed  Vegetables 

All  kinds  of  vegetables,  such  as  carrots, 
turnips,  artichokes,  and  peas,  beans,  lentils, 
can  all  be  passed  through  a  mincing-machine 
after  cooking  by  the  conservative  method 
as  directed,  and  served  as  purees,  croquettes, 
rissoles,  gratins,  timbales,  etc. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes 

Wash  and  peel  the  artichokes ;  place 
them  in  salted  water  to  which  a  little  lemon 


154    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

juice  has  been  added,  then  cook  as  explained 
for  the  salsify  (see  p.  156).  Serve  with 
white  sauce,  gravy  or  au  gratin.  The  re- 
maining liquid  may  be  used  for  soup. 

Jerusalem  Artichake  Fritters 

Drain  the  cooked  artichokes,  season, 
sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  chopped 
parsley.  Coat  with  frying  batter,  drain 
well,  and  place  on  a  greased  baking-sheet, 
and  bake  to  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with 
tomato  or  vegetable  sauce. 

Artichoke  Cake 

Materials. — Artichokes,  white  sauce  (see 
p.  41),  bread  dough  (see  p.  220),  a  little 
grated  cheese. 

Method. — Line  a  greased  dish  with  bread 
dough,  place  the  artichokes  in  the  centre, 
let  the  bread  rise.  The  edge  should  be  rolled 
up  so  as  to  form  a  border  when  risen.  Cover 
the  artichokes  with  white  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  cheese,  and  bake  for  80  minutes. 

Cauliflower 

Cut  the  cauliflower  (1  lb.)  small,  in  bunches, 
trim  the  stalk  as  well.     Place  in  a  saucepan. 


VEGETABLES  155 

just  cover  with  water,  add  a  little  salt  and 
I  oz.  fat.  Cover  with  a  lid,  cook  till  nearly 
done,  then  remove  the  lid,  reduce  quickly 
till  nearly  dry,  and  serve  without  sauce. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Dish  up,  cover  with  white  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  to  a  nice 
colour.  Or  mix  the  cauliflower  with  the 
sauce,  season  well,  place  in  the  dish,  sprinkle 
with  cheese,  and  bake. 

The  sauce  can  be  omitted — only  sprinkle 
with  cheese  or  crumbs,  or  both  mixed,  and 
then  bake. 

Carrots 

Materials. — Carrots,  |  oz.  fat  per  lb.  of  car- 
rots, a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Slice  or  cut  in  shape  of  small 
carrots,  add  J  oz.  fat  per  lb.,  cover  with 
water  and  a  very  little  salt,  boil  freely 
till  tender.  Reduce  the  liquid  till  nearly 
dry,  and  serve  with  chopped  parsley  sprinkled 
on  the  top.     Use  the  trimmings  for  stock. 

Turnips 

Materials. — Turnips,  J  oz.  fat  per  lb.,  a 
little  chopped  parsley. 


156    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Method. — Cut  up  and  shape  into  small 
balls  like  new  turnips.  Use  the  trimmings 
in  soup.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  add  |  oz.  fat 
per  lb.,  cover  with  water  and  salt,  boil 
freely  till  tender.  When  done,  reduce  the 
liquid  quickly  so  that  only  sufficient  moisture 
is  left  as  gravy.  If  liked,  add  a  little  white 
sauce,  but  that  is  not  necessary.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley. 

Salsify 

Materials. — Salsify,  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  1  quart  cold  water,  J  oz.  salt,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  1  or  2  oz.  chopped  suet,  white 
sauce  (see  p.  41),  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Method. — Wash  and  scrape  the  salsify. 
Place  the  flour  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  while 
adding  the  water.  Add  the  suet  and  season 
with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Boil  this  mixture 
while  stirring  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as  a 
piece  of  salsify  is  scraped  it  should  be 
washed  piece  by  piece  in  a  basin  of  water, 
and  then  dropped  into  the  boiling  liquid. 
When  all  is  done  boil  freely  till  tender, 
drain,  and  serve  with  white  sauce  or  gravy. 

Salsify  Yorkshire  Pudding 

Cut  the  cooked   salsify  small,   mix  with 


VEGETABLES  157 

Yorkshire   pudding,  and  bake  like  a  York- 
shire pudding. 

Use  the  hquid  which  remains  for  soup, 
adding  vegetables  and  barley. 

Creamed  Spinach 

Materials. — Spinach,  |-  oz.  fat  per  lb.  of 
spinach,  J  gill  of  water,  a  little  diluted  corn 
flour,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — Wash  the  spinach  in  plenty  of 
water  until  free  from  grit.  Place  the  fat 
and  clean  water  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
spinach,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Remove 
the  spinach,  drain  and  chop  fine.  Reduce 
the  liquid,  bind  with  a  little  corn  flour 
mixed  in  cold  milk  to  make  a  stiff  cream 
sauce,  add  the  spinach  and  season  to  taste 
with  a  little  salt,  nutmeg  and  pepper. 

There  should  be  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sauce  for  1  lb.  of  spinach.  Do  not  overcook 
the  spinach. 

Carrots  and  Turnip  Tops 

The  young  green  tops  of  carrots  and 
turnips,  together  with  tender  outside  leaves 
of  cabbage,  should  be  boiled  in  salted  water 
for  about  5  minutes,  then  drained  and 
refreshed  by  running  cold  water  over  them, 


158    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

which  will  remove  the  bitterness  of  the 
vegetables.  Chop  all  fine  or  pass  through  a 
mincer.  Heat  1  oz.  fat  per  lb.  of  greens, 
add  the  vegetables  and  a  little  moisture, 
milk  or  gravy,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 
Cover  with  a  lid  and  simmer  until  quite 
cooked.  A  little  thickening  may  be  added 
at  the  finish.    This  has  a  taste  like  curly  kale. 

Stewed  Beetroot 

Materials. — 1  or  2  beetroots,  1  oz.  fat, 
1  sliced  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar. 

Method. — Slice  the  beetroots  thinly.  Put 
the  fat  into  a  saucepan  and  add  the  onion. 
Cook  till  only  fairly  coloured,  then  add  the 
beet  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stew 
without  adding  any  liquid  until  the  onion 
is  cooked  ;  then  add  the  vinegar  and  cook 
for  15  minutes  more.  If  desired  creamy, 
add  a  little  corn  flour  mixed  smoothly  in 
cold  water,  toss  well  together,  and  let  come 
to  the  boil.  A  little  fried  bacon  or  gravy 
can  be  added  if  liked. 

Scarlet  Runners 

Materials. — |  oz.  fat  per  lb.  of  beans,  a 
pinch  of  salt. 


VEGETABLES  159 

Method. — Cut  the  beans  into  strips,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the 
fat.  Add  water  to  surface  of  the  beans, 
cover  with  a  lid  and  bring  to  the  boil.  \Mien 
nearly  done,  remove  the  lid  and  cook  quickly 
to  reduce  the  liquid  ;  when  nearly  dry  and 
cooked,  dish  up.  Do  not  add  too  much 
salt. 

Haricot  Stew 

Materials. — J  oz.  fat,  1  oz.  chopped 
onion,  |  oz.  flour,  1  pint  of  cooked  dried 
haricot  beans,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar  or 
Worcester  sauce,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat,  when 
cooked  add  the  flour.  Mix  well,  then  add 
the  beans,  cover  wuth  w^ater  or  vegetable 
stock,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Let  stew  together,  tossing  from  time  to 
time.  Add  the  vinegar  or  Worcester  sauce  ; 
stew  for  10  minutes  after  the  vinegar  is 
added,  then  dish  up,  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley. 

Peas  and  red  haricots  can  be  cooked  in 
the  same  way. 

StuSed  Cabbage 

Materials. — 1  cabbage ;  when  cooked,  weigh 
and  add  an  equal  amount  of  chopped  onion 


160    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

and  of  sausage  meat,  bread  stuffing  (see 
p.  56),  or  cooked  rice  (see  Risotto,  p.  138), 
1  oz.  fat,  1  dried  egg,  a  little  corn  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  spice  and 
seasoning. 

Method. — Cut  off  the  root  end  and  remove 
the  outside  leaves  of  a  firm  cabbage.  Wash, 
then  boil  in  salted  water  for  5  minutes. 
Cut  out  the  stalk  carefully  without  breaking 
the  cabbage,  remove  the  inside  (heart), 
leaving  1  inch  thickness  of  cabbage.  Chop 
the  removed  cabbage  finely,  mix  with  the 
onion  and  fry  in  the  fat.  When  fried,  add 
sausage  meat  or  bread  stuffing  or  cooked 
rice,  and  mix  well,  then  add  the  egg,  chopped  | 
parsley,  spice  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Fill  ■ 
in  the  hollow  of  the  cabbage,  tie  roimd 
with  string,  and  place  in  a  greased  casserole 
root  end  downwards.  Half  cover  with 
water  or  vegetable  stock  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Bring  to  the  boil,  cover  with  a  lid, 
and  place  in  the  oven  to  cook  for  1  hour, 
basting  from  time  to  time.  When  done, 
remove  the  cabbage  carefully  and  cut  away 
the  string.  Reduce  the  liquid  to  the 
amount  required,  thicken  with  corn  flour 
mixed  smoothly  in  cold  water  or  stock, 
season,  pour  over  the  cabbage  and  serve 
in  the  casserole. 


VEGETABLES  161 

When  rice  is  used  for  filling  add,  if  possible, 
grated  cheese,  and  when  bread  is  used  1  or 
2  oz.  chopped  nuts,  in  order  to  increase  the 
food  value. 

Cabbage 

Quarter  the  cabbage,  remove  the  stalk, 
and  shred  the  cabbage  coarsely.  It  may 
also  be  kept  in  quarters,  tied  with  string 
and  then  cooked  as  directed.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  gill  of  water  and  1  oz.  of 
fat  for  each  lb.  of  cabbage.  Cover  with  a 
lid,  cook  slowly  till  tender,  stir  with  a  fork 
from  time  to  time.  About  20  minutes' 
cooking  is  required. 

Creamed  Cabbage 

Add  to  the  stoved  chopped  cabbage 
1  tablespoonful  or  more  of  white  sauce. 
Simmer  together  for  a  few  minutes. 

Potato  Omelet 

Materials. — |  oz.  fat,  half-teaspoonful  or 
less  of  chopped  onion,  1  lb.  mashed  potatoes 
(or  baked  potatoes  are  better),  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  and  fat  together 
II 


162    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

in  an  omelet  pan.  Mix  the  potato,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg  and  parsley  together ;  add 
to  the  fried  onion  and  heat  thoroughly. 
Make  into  omelet  shape,  cook  until  it 
colours,  and  then  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish. 
One  or  more  eggs  added  to  the  above  will 
of  course  make  it  more  substantial.  Minced 
meat,  chopped  cheese  or  nuts  can  also  be 
added. 

Potato  Cheese  en  Casserole 

Materials. — 1  lb.  raw  potatoes,  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg,  2  oz.  chopped  cheese, 
water  or  milk. 

Method. — Slice  the  potatoes  ^  inch  thick, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Arrange  in  layers  in  a  casserole,  sprinkle 
the  cheese  between  the  layers,  and  when  all 
is  in,  half  fill  the  casserole  with  water  or 
milk  and  sprinkle  more  cheese  on  the  top. 
Cover  with  the  lid  and  bake  in  the  oven  for 
1  hour,  then  remove  the  lid  and  allow  to 
colour. 

One  or  two  slices  of  raw  onion  at  the 
bottom  of  the  casserole  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes 

Materials. — Some    baked    potatoes,    salt. 


VEGETABLES  163 

pepper  and  nutmeg,  2  oz.  finely  chopped 
nuts  to  each  lb.  of  potatoes,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  a  little  milk,  grated  cheese  and 
breadcrumbs,  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil. 

Method. — Split  the  baked  potatoes  in 
halves,  take  out  the  pulp,  mash  with  a 
fork,  add  the  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  and  moisten  with  a  little  milk. 
Add  the  chopped  nuts,  then  refill  the  shells 
(skins)  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  and  crumbs  mixed,  baste 
with  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil  and  bake 
to  a  nice  brown  colour.  The  dish  may  be 
varied,  adding  cooked  fish,  mince,  etc.  etc. 

Bakers'  Potatoes 

Materials. — 1  lb.  sliced  potatoes,  salt  and 
pepper,  |  pint  of  water  or  stock,  4  oz.  onion, 
1  oz.  fat,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Mix  th^  potatoes,  salt,  pepper, 
onion,  fat  and  water  or  stock  together. 
Place  in  a  baking-tin  and  bake  for  about 
1  hour.  Dish  up,  and  serve  with  chopped 
parsley  on  the  top. 

Potato  (Tripe  Style) 

Materials. — 1  lb.  cooked  sliced  potatoes, 
1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  shredded  onion,  a  little  milk 


164     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

and   water    mixed,    salt    and    pepper    and 
nutmeg  to  taste,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Sweat  the  fat  and  onion  to- 
gether in  a  casserole,  add  the  potatoes, 
cover  with  milk  or  half  water  and  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Let 
simmer  together  till  creamy,  then  serve 
with  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  on  the  top. 


Jacket  Potatoes 

Method. — Place  as  many  scrubbed  and 
washed  potatoes  in  a  tin  as  it  will  hold  ; 
cover  the  tin  and  place  in  boiling  water 
or  a  steamer.  Cook  for  1  hour.  No  water 
is  required  in  the  tin  to  cook  potatoes  in 
this  way,  and  when  done  they  can  be  eaten 
without  the  addition  of  salt.  The  potatoes 
remain  intact  just  as  they  were  when  placed 
in  the  tin. 

Timbale  of  Potatoes 

Method. — Grease  some  small  timbale 
moulds  and  line  with  crumbs.  Fill  with 
seasoned  dry  mashed  potatoes,  bake  in 
the  oven  and  turn  out.  The  potatoes  may 
be  mixed  with  a  puree  of  carrot  or  turnips, 
or  with  cooked  flaked  fish  or  minced  meat. 


VEGETABLES  165 

Potato  and  Cheese  Pudding 

Materials. — 8  oz.  mashed  potato,  2  oz. 
grated  cheese,  a  little  chopped  onion,  salt, 
pepper  or  cayenne  and  nutmeg,  1  beaten 
egg,  1  oz.  fat,  8  oz.  self-raising  flour,  white 
sauce  (see  p.  41). 

Method. — Mix  all  the  ingredients  together, 
fill  in  a  greased  basin  and  steam  for  2  hours. 
Serve  the  pudding  with  white  sauce,  to  which 
add  a  little  grated  cheese. 

Potato  Salad 

Materials. — A  few  small  potatoes,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  a  little  vinegar,  chopped 
onion  and  parsley. 

Method. — Cook  the  potatoes  in  their 
jackets ;  while  hot  peel  and  slice,  or  use 
left  over  cold  potato.  Add  the  onion  and 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  baste 
with  vinegar.  If  hot  potato  is  used,  toss 
and  let  get  cold.  A  tablespoonful  of  salad 
oil  per  lb.  is  a  good  addition  if  available. 
If  the  potatoes  absorb  too  much  vinegar, 
add  boiling  milk  to  make  the  salad 
moist. 

If  a  creamy  salad  is  desired,  add  mayon- 
naise sauce,  or  a  very  soft-boiled  egg  may 


166     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

also  be  added  instead  of  the  mayonnaise.     It 
should  be  well  mixed  in. 


Macaroni  Croquettes  and  Peas 

Materials. — 4  oz.  macaroni,  2  oz.  cheese, 
grated  or  chopped  finely,  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  a  little  white  sauce  (see  p.  41),  a 
few  peas  to  garnish. 

Method. — Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted 
water  for  20  minutes;  if  desired  the  water 
may  be  flavoured  with  onion  and  aromatic 
herbs.  When  done,  chop  finely.  Do  not 
wash  the  macaroni  after  it  is  cooked ;  if  it 
has  to  be  washed,  this  should  be  done  by 
parboiling  it  and  then  throwing  the  first 
water  away.  Then  place  again  in  fresh 
boiling  water.  Put  the  cooked  macaroni 
into  a  saucepan,  dry,  and  add  the  cheese 
either  grated  or  chopped  finely.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  or  cayenne  and  nutmeg, 
and  add  sufficient  stiff  white  sauce  to  make 
it  creamy.  Boil  all  together  and  place  on  a 
dish  to  cool,  about  |  of  an  inch  thick  all 
over,  and  when  cold  cut  into  squares, 
triangles  or  diamonds,  coat  with  batter  and 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Garnish 
with  cooked  peas  and  serve  with  tomato  or 
vegetable  sauce.     Use  the  macaroni  water 


VEGETABLES  167 

for  the  sauce.     If  any  remains  it  may  be 
used  for  soup. 

Vegetable  Marrow  and  Cereal  Salad 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  1  chopped  onion, 
3|  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  1  gill  of  rice,  2  gills 
vegetable  stock  or  water,  salt  and  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  a  little  salad  dress- 
ing highly  seasoned,  a  few  tomatoes,  a  little 
chopped  herbs. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  oil,  add  the  rice,  heat  well 
together,  and  cover  with  twice  the  amount  of 
vegetable  stock  or  water,  season  with  salt 
and  cayenne  or  paprika.  Cook  with  the 
lid  tightly  on  for  20  minutes,  then  drop  into 
a  basin  containing  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 
add  the  vinegar,  and  toss  from  time  to  time 
till  cold.  Cook  the  marrow  until  it  is 
three-parts  done,  and  then  cut  into  strips 
about  ^  of  an  inch  thick.  Season  these  well, 
and  dress  in  salad  dressing  highly  seasoned. 
Mix  with  the  rice,  dress  in  a  salad  bowl, 
arrange  tomato  round  it  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  herbs. 

Egg,  Cress  and  Haricot  Bean  Salad 

Materials. — Haricot      beans      (hot      and 


168    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

cooked),  salt,  pepper,  oil  and  vinegar,  few 
chives  or  spring  onions,  eggs  (as  many  as 
required),  little  cress  and  chopped  herbs. 

Method. — Steam  the  beans  in  the  usual 
way ;  then,  while  hot,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  oil  and  vinegar,  and  a  few  chives 
or  spring  onions.  Toss  from  time  to  time 
till  cold,  and,  if  dry,  add  a  little  liquor. 
Boil  a  number  of  eggs  hard  (not  longer  than 
10  minutes),  and  cool  quickly  in  cold  water  ; 
then  shell.  Now  cut  the  eggs  into  slices. 
Make,  at  the  last  moment,  a  salad  of  the 
cress,  and  mix  with  the  beans,  dish  up,  and 
garnish  with  the  slices  of  egg.  Sprinkle 
chopped  herbs  on  the  top. 

Tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  added  to  the 
above  will  improve  the  appearance  as  well 
as  the  taste  of  the  dish. 

Mixed  Salad 

Materials. — ^A  few  cold  potatoes,  salt  and 
pepper,  little  chopped  onion  to  flavour,  a  little 
vinegar,  a  few  dozen  cooked  peas  and  shrimps, 
or  any  other  fish,  a  little  plain  salad  dress- 
ing (see  p.  167),  a  little  mayonnaise  sauce 
(see  p.  47). 

Method. — Cut  a  few  cold  potatoes  in 
dice,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  flavour- 


VEGETABLES  169 

ing  of  finely  chopped  onion,  sprinkle  with 
vinegar,  and  toss  from  time  to  time.  Mix 
the  peas  and  picked  shrimps  in  the  salad 
dressing,  then  mix  all  with  the  mayonnaise 
sauce,  and  dish  up  in  a  hors-d'oeuvre  dish 
garnished  with  a  few  peas  and  shrimps. 


Vegetable  Cutlets 

Materials. — 1  oz.  chopped  onion,  |  oz. 
fat,  1  oz.  flour,  1  lb.  mixed  vegetables  from 
which  stock  has  been  made  (they  should 
be  drained  as  dry  as  possible),  salt  and  pepper, 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  ground  rice 
and  batter  (see  p.  233),  crumbs,  vegetable 
sauce. 

Method. — Fry  the  onion  in  the  fat  till 
cooked  but  not  coloured.  Add  the  flour 
and  mix  with  the  fat,  then  chop  the  mixed 
vegetables,  add  them,  and  heat  all  together. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  bind  the  whole  by  boiling  thor- 
oughly, stirring  all  the  time.  Place  on  a 
plate  to  cool.  When  cold,  shape  into  pear 
shape,  using  ground  rice  or  other  flour. 
Coat  the  shapes  lightly  with  batter  and 
bread  or  other  crumbs.  Roll  them,  still 
retaining  the  pear  shape,  now  bend  the 
point  and  press  down  with  a  knife  or  with 


170    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

the  flat  hand.  This  will  form  them  into 
the  shape  of  cutlets.  To  cook,  fry  in  a 
pan  with  very  little  fat.  When  one  side  is 
brown,  turn  over  and  fry  the  other  side 
likewise,  or  if  fat  is  not  available  they 
can  be  baked  in  the  oven  by  mixing  the 
crumbs  with  a  very  little  fat  before  coating, 
then  place  them  on  a  baking-sheet  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

These  are  nice  cold  or  hot,  served  with  or 
without  sauce. 


Vegetable  Cutlets  with  Pulse 

To  the  foregoing  recipe  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  cooked,  sieved  or  minced  pulse, 
viz.  lentils,  haricot  beans  or  peas.  It  is 
preferable  to  use  a  small  mincing-machine 
for  this  purpose,  if  available,  as  it  is  effective 
and  clean.  All  ingredients  should  be  boiled 
together,  otherwise  they  will  not  set  firm 
enough  for  the  shaping  of  the  cutlets. 
Finish  as  explained  before. 

Vegetable  Cutlets  with  Egg 

To  the  prepared  vegetable  mixture  add 
2  or  more  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  finely, 
or  when  dried  eggs  are  used,  they  can  be 


VEGETABLES  171 

scrambled  before  adding.  In  the  latter  case 
they  should  be  well  done,  so  that  the  mixture 
does  not  become  softened  by  the  eggs  added. 

Vegetable  Cutlets  with  Nuts 

To  the  prepared  vegetable  mixture  add 
2  oz.  of  chopped  nuts,  and  finish  as  instructed. 

Vegetable  Cutlets  with  Cereals 

The  cereals  should  be  thoroughly  cooked, 
but  as  dry  as  possible.  Mix  them  with  the 
vegetable  mixture  and  boil  well  together. 
Finish  as  directed. 

Vegetable  and  Haricot  Bean  Pie 

Materials. — Any  kind  of  vegetables,  an 
equal  quantity  of  steamed  haricot  beans, 
seasoning  to  taste,  a  little  Worcester  sauce, 
mashed  potatoes  or  crust. 

Method. — Stove  the  vegetables  as  directed 
for  vegetable  stock,  cover  with  water,  season 
to  taste,  and  add  sufficient  Worcester  sauce 
to  remove  the  sweetness  of  the  vegetables. 
Let  stew  together  to  blend.  Put  the  whole 
in  a  pie  dish,  let  cool,  and  when  cold,  cover 
with  mashed   potatoes   or   crust,  and  bake 


172    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

until  the  potatoes  are  coloured  or  the  crust 
brown  and  cooked.  The  contents  being 
already  cooked,  the  pie  requires  heating 
only. 

When  covering  a  pie  dish  with  mashed 
potatoes  the  easiest  method  is  to  place  the 
potato  in  a  forcing-bag  with  a  star  tube, 
and  force  the  potato  in  circle  fashion  on  the 
top  of  the  vegetables. 


CHAPTER    VII 

PASTRY,  PUDDINGS  AND   SWEETS: 
WITH  BUT  LITTLE  FAT  OR  SUGAR 


•73 


What  is  there  to  be  proud  of  in  waste  or 
extravagance  ? 


»74 


CHAPTER   VII 

PASTRY,  PUDDINGS  AND  SWEETS  : 
WITH  BUT  LITTLE  FAT  OR  SUGAR 

Pastry,  Puddings  and  Sweets 

Almost  all  sweets  and  pastry  require  two 
of  the  most  restricted  articles  of  food — fat 
and  sugar,  and  others  which  are  scarce  and 
dear.  Fats  are  so  scarce  that  they  must 
on  that  account  be  used  only  in  essential 
foods.  Sugar  is  reduced  to  such  a  quantity 
that  it  behoves  adults  to  consume  but  little 
of  it  in  order  that  children  and  young  people 
should  have  their  full  share,  and  in  most 
cases  to  allow  of  some  part  of  the  ration 
being  saved  for  jam-making.  Further, 
cereals  must  be  used  sparingly.  Dried  fruit 
is  expensive,  and  although  a  valuable 
food,  is  certainly  not  always  worth  the  price 
demanded.  Milk  and  eggs  are  scarce  and 
expensive. 

For   adults,   puddings   and   pastry   are   a 

luxury  rather  than  a  necessity,   and  when 

17s 


176    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

food-stuffs  are  claimed  for  essential  purposes, 
this  custom  of  serving  a  sweet  course  should 
be  reduced  to  its  minimum,  if  not  abolished 
altogether. 

Substitutes  for  cane  or  beet  sugar  are 
honey,  maple  syrup,  dried  fruit,  beetroot, 
parsnips,  carrots,  the  yam  or  sweet  potato. 
These  can  be  used  in  puddings  to  supply  the 
sweetness.  Potatoes  may  be  employed  to 
give  bulk,  but  as  even  a  cooked  potato  is 
largely  water,  other  starches  are  necessary 
to  absorb  the  moisture.  It  therefore  be- 
comes essential  that  some  starch  be  used  in 
the  manufacture  of  sweets  and  pastry.  Fats 
can  be  replaced  in  part  by  alcohol  in  the 
manufacture  of  cakes  and  pastry,  but  not 
wholly,  so  that  a  small  amount  of  fat  is  still 
necessary. 

Certain  cereals  can  be  used  to  assist  the 
reduction  of  fat,  e.g.  maize  or  oatmeal,  which 
contain  fat.  When  potato  is  used  in  paste 
it  is  necessary  to  use  starch  foods  having  a 
high  absorbability,  such  as  rice,  sago  and 
tapioca,  which  at  the  same  time  assist  to 
''  bind."  In  wheat  en  flour  it  is  the  gluten 
which  binds,  and  gluten  is  only  found  in 
wheaten  flour  and  rye.  When  using  potato 
and  other  starchy  non-protein  cereals,  it  is 
necessary    that    this    deficiency    should    be 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  177 

made  good  by  adding  milk  powder  or  pea 
flour. 

When  using  but  little  fat,  rice  flour  and 
corn  flour  help  to  shorten  the  pastry.  It  will 
be  seen,  therefore,  that  it  is  yet  possible 
to  supply  sweets  and  pastries  by  combining 
various  substances  such  as  are  still  available, 
especially  in  the  preparing  of  nursery  meals, 
where  the  protein  and  starchy  foods  are  of 
primary  importance. 

Fruit,  if  fresh,  is  best  eaten  raw,  as  in  the 
cooking  much  of  its  value  is  destroyed.  A 
plum  or  apple  eaten  raw  does  not  require 
any  additional  flavouring  or  sugar,  but  if 
cooked,  requires  sugar  at  all  events  to  make 
it  palatable.  Thus  sugar  is  saved  by  eating 
raw  in  preference  to  cooked  fruit.  But  all 
fruit  cannot  be  eaten  raw.  Rhubarb  and 
unripe  fruit  must  first  be  cooked  to  render 
them  palatable  and  fit  for  food.  But  though 
cooked  fruit  may  taste  sour  it  is  best  not  to 
sweeten  it  too  much,  as  by  doing  so  much  of 
the  value  is  destroyed. 

Fortunately  we  can  often  make  use  of 
potatoes  in  pastry,  scones  and  buns,  and 
then  a  little  white  of  egg  helps  to  give  them 
the  required  body.  Without  this  addition 
they  are  usually  doughy,  especially  when  a 
large  amount  of  potato  is  used. 

12 


178     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

In  making  puddings  all  cereals  can  be 
used,  but  when  employing  those  which  are 
short  in  gluten  it  is  best  to  scald  them  or 
boil  them  partially  and  then  add  the  other 
ingredients  to  them.  Steaming  is  the  best 
method  of  cooking,  and  very  little  leavening 
power  should  be  used.  All  sweet,  starchy 
food  should  be  served  more  or  less  solid  ; 
in  a  sloppy  state  it  is  not  wholesome,  as 
all  starch  requires  thorough  mastication  in 
order  to  ensure  proper  digestion.  The  more 
moisture  added  to  cereals  the  less  food  value 
they  possess,  except,  of  course,  in  the  case  of 
milk,  for  milk  is  in  itself  a  valuable  food, 
which  is  the  reason  why  milk  puddings  and 
other  combinations  of  cereals  and  milk  are 
recommended  for  children  and  invalids. 
For  the  same  reason  milk  should  not  be  used 
as  a  drink  with  solid  food  instead  of  water, 
for  the  casein  becomes  solid  in  process  of 
digestion  and  does  not  wash  out  the  system 
as  thoroughly  as  does  water. 


Potato  and  Apple  Cheese  Cake 

Materials. — 1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  sugar,  2  dried 
eggs,  1  lb.  dry  mashed  potatoes,  |  pint  of 
milk,  1  oz.  corn  or  potato  flour,  4  oz.  chopped 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  179 

apples,    a   little   golden   syrup,    some   short 
paste  (see  p.  183). 

Method. — Cream  the  fat,  sugar  and  eggs 
together  ;  add  the  potatoes,  milk  and  corn 
or  potato  flour  and  mix  well  together,  then 
add  the  apples.  Line  greased  patty  pans 
with  short  paste,  fill  with  the  mixture  and 
then  cover  with  slices  of  apple  and  bake. 
When  done,  brush  the  apple  over  with  hot 
golden  syrup  to  give  a  shine  on  the  top. 

Special  Paste  for  Fruit  Tartlets 

Materials. — Equal  quantities  of  potato  pie 
crust  and  maize  suet  paste  (see  pp.  181  and 
182). 

Method. — Mix  the  ingredients  together. 
This  is  a  paste  which  will  bear  fruit  juice 
well,  such  as  rhubarb,  gooseberries  or  any 
other  kind.  It  bakes  very  well,  and  has  a 
texture  as  if  egg  had  been  added. 

Tapioca  and  Potato  Paste  for  Savoury 
Pies 

Materials. — 1  lb.  mashed  potatoes,  4  oz. 
French  granulated  tapioca  or  English 
tapioca  (soaked  overnight  in  1  gill  of  milk 
or  water),  1  oz.  milk  powder  (this  is  not 
essential),  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  2  oz. 


180    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

fat,  I  oz.  salt  in  all,  |  lb.  rice  flour  or  corn 
meal,  1  gill  of  milk  or  water. 

Method. — Mix  the  potatoes  with  the 
tapioca  and  fat,  let  this  rest  until  the 
tapioca  has  softened  by  the  moisture  of  the 
potato.  Now  add  the  rice  flour  and  milk 
powder.  A  little  moisture  may  be  necessary 
(when  milk  powder  is  used,  add  water, 
otherwise  milk).  Instead  of  rice  flour  fine 
corn  meal  can  be  used. 

This  paste  is  specially  good  for  vegetable 
and  savoury  pies. 

Pie  Paste  (without  Fat) 

Materials. — 1  gill  of  water,  |  oz.  milk 
powder,  4  oz.  dry  mashed  potato,  \  oz. 
granulated  tapioca,  6  oz.  rice  flour,  half-tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Method. — Mix  the  milk  powder,  tapioca 
and  rice  flour,  add  these  ingredients 
to  the  water  and  cook  to  a  stiff  paste. 
Mix  with  the  potato,  and  then  work  into 
this  the  rice  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  The  paste  is  very  dry,  but  will  soften 
after  a  time.  Before  use  stand  for  |  to  1 
hour,  and  work  well  to  prevent  cracking. 

This  paste  will  improve  if  |  oz.  fat  is  added 
to  the  potato  before  mixing. 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  181 

Haricot  Paste 

Materials. — 1  lb.  haricot  beans  (steamed 
and  sieved),  2  oz.  rice  flour,  ^  oz.  salt, 
1  oz.  fat. 

Method. — Scald  the  rice  flour  in  1  gill  of 
boiling  water  and  mix  with  the  beans, 
adding  the  salt  and  fat.     No  moisture. 

Pie  Crust  with  Ground  Rice 

Materials. — 4  oz.  ground  rice,  3  oz. 
dripping,  a  little  salt  and  baking  powder, 
4  oz.  flour,  J  gill  of  water. 

Method. — Mix  the  ground  rice  with  the 
dripping  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  baking 
powder  ;  add  the  flour  and  water,  mix  into 
the  dough  and  let  rest  before  using. 

Pie  Crust  with  Potato 

Materials. — 8  oz.  mashed  potatoes,  1  to 
1|  oz.  fat,  4  oz.  ground  rice,  4  oz.  self- 
raising  flour. 

Method. — Rub  the  fat  into  the  mashed 
potatoes ;  when  thoroughly  blended  add 
the  ground  rice  and  let  rest  for  a  while,  so 
that  the  rice  can  absorb  sufficient  moisture. 
Then  add  the  self-raising  flour  and  make 


182     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

into  a  short  paste.  If  too  dry  add  a  little 
moisture,  but  that  is  very  seldom  required. 
Be  careful  not  to  moisten  too  much.  It  is 
best  to  keep  the  paste  fairly  firm,  otherwise 
it  will  be  tough.  Roll  out,  using  ground 
rice  for  the  purpose,  then  cover  the  pie  in 
the  usual  manner. 


Haricot  Beans  and  Rice  Pastry  for 
Pie  Covering 

Materials.— 1  lb.  cooked  haricot  beans, 
I  lb.  cooked  rice,  1  oz.  fat,  salt  and  pepper. 

Method. — Mash  or  mince  the  haricot  beans 
with  the  rice,  add  fat,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  well  together  on  a  floured  pastry- 
board.  Roll  out  with  a  rolling-pin  and  use 
to  cover  the  pie  instead  of  paste.  This 
should  be  carefully  done,  as  the  paste  is 
brittle.  Cut  to  shape,  lift  into  place  with 
a  slice  or  two  knives,  fringe  the  edges,  and 
bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  colour. 

Maize  Paste 

Materials. — |  pint  of  water,  1  oz.  fat,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  1  gill  maize  meal,  4  oz.  self- 
raising  flour. 

Method. — Boil   the  water  with    the    salt 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  183 

and  fat,  add  the  raw  maize  and  cook  for 
10  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Cool  until 
tepid.  Mix  with  the  flour  by  placing  the 
flour  on  board  and  mixing  the  maize  into  it. 
Place  on  a  cloth  and  roll  it  out.  It  is  so 
brittle  that  it  is  difficult  to  handle.  Use 
for  savoury  maize  rolls  and  boiled  puddings. 

Short  Paste 

Materials. — |  oz.  rice  flour,  |  oz.  tapioca, 
J  oz.  milk  powder,  2  gills  water,  f  oz.  fat, 
I  lb.  rice  flour,  |  lb.  flour,  ^  oz.  baking  powder, 
I  oz.  salt. 

Method. — Mix  the  first  three  ingredients 
cold  in  one  gill  of  water,  and  boil  until 
stiff,  stirring  all  the  time.  Mix  the  rice 
flour,  flour,  baking  powder,  fat  and  salt 
together,  add  the  boiled  preparation  and 
mix  all  together,  adding  sufficient  water 
to  make  a  fairly  soft  paste  (about  1  gill). 
Roll  and  use. 

This  is  excellent  for  turnovers,  pies  and 
tarts. 

Suet  Crust  (for  Dumplings^  Rolls^  Fruit 
or  Savoury  Puddings) 

Materials. — 1  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  raw  potatoes, 
1  oz.  suet,   1    oz.  fat  (or  2  oz.  fat  if  suet 


184    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

cannot  be  obtained),  ^  oz.  salt,  |  oz.  baking 
powder. 

Method. — Put  the  potatoes  through  a 
mincer,  add  the  flour,  suet,  fat  and  baking 
powder  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  paste 
not  too  soft. 

Ground  Rice  and  Coco-Nut  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  coco-nut,  1  pint  milk, 
1  oz.  sugar,  2  oz.  rice  flour  or  maize  semo- 
lina, almond  essence,  |  oz.  fat. 

Method. — Boil  the  milk,  sugar,  coco-nut 
and  rice  together,  add  the  flavouring,  place 
into  a  pie-dish  with  the  fat  on  top  and  bake 
to  a  light  brown. 

Caramel  Pudding 

Materials. — 1  pint  of  milk,  2  oz.  sugar, 
4  oz.  semolina,  1  egg. 

Method. — Boil  the  milk,  1  oz.  of  sugar 
and  semolina  together,  and  add  the  egg. 
Caramelise  the  remaining  ounce  of  sugar, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  then  cook  to 
a  thick  syrup.  Run  this  into  a  mould; 
when  set  fill  in  with  the  mixture  and  place 
the  mould  in  boiling  water  to  come  to 
within  half  the  top  of  the  mould,  and  cook 
slowly  till  set — about  one  hour.     Cool  and 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  185 

then  turn  out.  The  caramel  will  serve  as 
sauce.  If  all  the  caramel  is  not  dissolved, 
add  a  little  water  and  boil  it  out. 


Maize  Batter  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  maize  meal,  h  pint 
water,  3  oz.  rice  flour,  2  oz.  suet,  half-tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  1  egg^  1  gill  of 
milk,  1  oz.  sugar,  1  oz.  coco-nut,  flavouring. 

Method. — Boil  the  water  and  suet,  add 
the  maize,  and  cook  till  the  moisture 
is  absorbed.  Add  sugar,  milk,  coco-nut 
and  egg ;  work  well.  Mix  the  rice  flour 
and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to 
the  other  ingredients.  Grease  a  pudding 
basin,  fill  in  the  material  and  steam  for 
2  hours,  or  divided  into  four  smaller  shapes 
1  hour  would  be  enough.  Serve  with  jam 
or  custard. 

Monkeys 

Materials. — 4  oz.  dates  or  chopped  dried 
fruit  of  any  kind,  a  little  lemon  or  orange 
peel,  spice  to  taste,  1  oz.  coco-nut,  a  little 
jam  to  bind,  some  potato  paste  or  short- 
bread (see  pp.  181  and  192). 

Method. — Boil  the  orange  or  lemon  peel 
till  tender,  then  mix  with  the  dates  or  fruit, 


186    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

adding  spice  to  taste,  and  the  coco-nut, 
and  mix  with  a  little  jam  to  bind.  Place 
between  two  layers  of  potato  paste  or 
potato  shortbread,  press  together  with  the 
blunt  side  of  a  pastry  cutter,  make  a  hole  in 
the  centre,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  till  the 
paste  is  cooked — about  15  minutes  or  more. 

Rhubarb  and  Rice  Cakes 

Materials. — 1  gill  of  rice,  1  pint  of  milk, 
1  bunch  of  forced  rhubarb  or  2  sticks  of 
natural,  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  golden 
syrup,  a  few  drops  of  almond  essence,  sugar 
to  taste,  short  paste  (see  p.  183). 

Method. — Boil  the  rice  and  milk  together 
for  30  minutes,  then  add  the  golden  syrup 
and  almond  essence.  Shred  the  rhubarb 
and  stew  till  it  forms  a  pulp.  Sweeten  to 
taste.  Line  a  dish  with  short  paste,  prick 
the  bottom.  Spread  with  rhubarb,  cover 
with  the  rice,  and  then  wet  the  edges.  Cut 
the  short  paste  into  strips  and  arrange 
trellis  fashion  on  the  top.  Bake  for  30 
minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  The  rhubarb 
may  be  replaced  by  apple  or  jam. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  with  Fruit 

Materials. — Yorkshire    pudding    mixture. 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  187 

fruit  to  garnish,  little  spiced  sugar  or  other 
sweet  substance. 

Method.  —  When  the  usual  Yorkshire 
pudding  mixture  is  half  baked,  garnish  it 
with  fruit,  such  as  damsons,  bullaces  or 
any  other  variety  or  mixture  available. 
Finish  it  by  baking,  and  then  sprinkle  it 
with  spiced  sugar  or  any  other  sweet  sub- 
stance which  may  be  acceptable,  such  as 
honey  or  fruit  sauce. 

Apple  Suet  Pudding 

Materials. — Some  sliced  apples,  sprinkling 
of  moist  sugar  and  spice,  suet  paste  (see 
p.  183). 

Method. — Roll  the  paste  out  thinly  and 
line  it  three-quarters  with  sliced  apples. 
Sprinkle  with  moist  sugar  and  spice.  Now 
roll  the  paste  up — ^the  part  which  has  not 
been  spread  with  apples  will  form  a  double 
cover.  The  pudding  is  then  cooked  in  the 
usual  way.  Of  course  all  kinds  of  fruit 
can  be  used  in  this  recipe.  Plums  must  be 
stoned  and  dried  fruit  soaked  before  use. 

Bread  Dough  Galeite 

Materials. — Bread  dough,  jam  or  grated 


188    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

carrot,  some  apples  or  other  fruit,  sugar  and 
spice  to  taste. 

Method. — Roll  out  the  bread  dough  and 
place  it  on  a  baking-sheet.  Now  turn  up 
the  edges  to  form  a  border,  spread  with  jam 
or  grated  carrot,  then  arrange  the  fruit 
carefully  in  the  centre,  allow  the  bread 
dough  to  rise  and  bake  the  whole.  When 
baked  sprinkle  the  surface  with  sugar  and 
spice  mixed.  This  forms  not  only  a  sub- 
stantial sweet,  but  a  very  appetising  dish. 
Any  other  fruit  may  be  used. 

Maize  Pancakes 

Materials. — 1  pint  of  water,  1  gill  of 
maize  semolina,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs, 
^  oz.  sugar,  4  oz.  flour,  a  little  milk  (about  1 
gill),  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Method. — Boil  the  water,  and  rain  in  the 
maize  semolina  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let 
slowly  cook  or  steam  for  a  |  hour.  Turn 
out  into  a  basin,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  sugar,  flour  and  sufficient  milk  to 
make  a  fairly  stiff  batter.  Add  the  lemon  | 
rind  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
firm  froth,  and  bake  like  drop  scones. 

The  pancakes  can  also  be  made  by  adding 
prepared  flour  instead  of  the  ordinary,  and 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  189 

using  1  dried  egg  instead  of  two  fresh,  the 
other  ingredients  remaining  the  same. 

Maize  Jam  Roll 

Materials. — 1  pint  of  water,  2  oz.  chopped 
suet  (or  1|  oz.  fat),  a  pinch  of  salt,  ^  lb. 
maize  semolina,  |  lb.  prepared  flour. 

Method. — Boil  the  water,  suet,  salt  and 
maize  semolina  ;  cook  by  stirring  till  it  leaves 
the  sides  of  the  pan.  Take  out  of  the  pan 
into  a  basin  and  mix  with  the  prepared  flour. 
Wet  a  pudding-cloth  in  cold  water,  place 
the  paste  on  it,  and  roll  out  into  a  square. 
Spread  the  jam  over  it  and  roll  up  by  lifting 
the  cloth.  When  the  roll  is  shaped,  shut 
the  ends  and  roll  in  the  cloth,  tie  loosely  and 
boil  in  water  (do  not  steam)  for  1|  to  2 
hours. 

Bread  Jelly 

Materials. — Odd  pieces  of  bread  left  over, 
syrup  or  sugar  to  sweeten,  a  little  flavouring 
as  desired. 

Method. — Take  any  pieces  of  bread  left 
over,  place  in  a  pan  of  water,  bring  to  the 
boil  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  ; 
cover  the  pan,  and  simmer  as  long  as  possible 
— 5  to   8  hours.     The  bread   must   not   be 


190    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

stirred,  and  as  the  water  will  evaporate 
more  may  have  to  be  added.  When  the 
bread  breaks  up  and  begins  to  jelly,  sweeten 
with  syrup  or  sugar  and  flavour  as  desired. 
Turn  out  into  a  pudding  mould  and  let 
cool ;  when  cold  it  will  be  like  a  jelly.  All 
cereals — ^tapioca,  sago,  rice,  macaroni — can 
be  treated  like  this,  so  a  variety  of  jellies 
can  be  made  without  gelatine.  They  turn 
cloudy  in  the  cooling.  Fruit  juice  may  be 
added,  and  thus  an  excellent  sweet  is  made. 

Potato  Gateau 

Materials. — 4  oz.  dry  mashed  potato,  1  oz. 
fat,  1  oz.  sugar,  1  gill  of  milk,  1  beaten  egg, 
flavouring  to  taste,  1  oz.  corn  flour  or  other 
starch,  1  tablespoonful  of  jam,  some  pie 
crust  (see  p.  181). 

Method. — Line  a  greased  sandwich  tin 
with  pie  crust.  Mix  the  potato,  fat,  sugar, 
milk,  egg,  flavouring  and  corn  flour  together. 
Line  the  crust  with  the  jam,  and  pour  the 
potato  mixture  in  the  centre  and  spread  out 
level.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20 
minutes. 

The  whole  can  be  covered  with  paste  or 
with  strips  of  paste  in  trellis  fashion,  accord- 
ing to  taste. 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  191 

Potato  Rocks 

Materials. — 1  lb.  dry  mashed  potato, 
I  lb.  rice  flour,  ^  lb.  self-raising  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  oil  or  1  oz.  of  fat,  2  oz.  sugar, 
4  oz.  baked  beetroot,  flavouring  and  spice, 
1  gill  of  moisture. 

Method. — Cut  the  beetroot  into  diamond 
shapes.  Mix  the  fat  and  potato  together 
thoroughly  to  make  it  light,  add  the  rice 
flour  and  mix  well.  Let  this  rest  as  long 
as  possible,  or  even  prepare  the  day  before 
required.  Then  mix  lightly  with  the  other 
ingredients,  last  of  all  adding  the  moisture. 
Make  into  rocks  with  a  fork  on  a  greased 
baking-sheet,  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven 
for  from  15  to  20  minutes.  The  beetroot  will 
turn  sultana  colour. 

Potato  Scones 

Materials. — |  lb.  dry  mashed  potatoes, 
4  oz.  rice  flour,  a  pinch  of  sugar  (not  essential), 
1  beaten  white  of  egg,  4  oz.  flour,  ^  oz. 
baking  powder. 

Method. — Mix  the  potato,  rice  flour,  and 
sugar  together,  and  allow  to  rest  for  a  few 
hours,  then  add  the  loosely  beaten  white 
of  egg  (or  half  a  dry  egg),  flour  and  baking 


192     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

powder.  Mix  lightly  into  a  soft  dough, 
shape  into  balls  the  size  required,  place  on  a 
floured  board  and  press  flat  with  the  lid  of  a 
cocoa  tin  to  form  a  round.  Let  rest  for  10  to 
15  minutes,  then  place  on  a  girdle  or  frying- 
pan,  and  bake  on  the  hot-plate  or  in  the  oven. 

Potato  Shortbread 

Materials. — |  lb.  mashed  potato,  6  oz. 
rice  flour,  2  oz.  fat,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  oz. 
sugar,  2  oz.  self-raising  flour. 

Method. — Work  the  mashed  potato  warm 
with  the  fat  and  sugar  and  salt,  then  add 
the  rice  flour,  last  of  all  the  self-raising 
flour,  or  flour  and  baking  powder.  Roll  out 
on  a  floured  board,  cut  to  shapes  desired, 
and  bake  to  a  very  light  fawn  colour. 

Potato  and  Maize  Pudding — 1 

Materials. — 1  pint  of  milk,  1  gill  of  maize 
semolina,  ^  lb.  dry  mashed  potato,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  jam,  1  oz.  sugar,  almond  flavour- 
ing to  taste,  1  oz.  desiccated  coco-nut,  a 
little  fat. 

Method. — Boil  the  milk,  add  the  semolina 
and  put  in  a  tin.  Cover,  and  place  in  boiling 
water,  or  steam  for  1  hour.     Put  the  contents 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  193 

in  a  basin,  mixing  in  the  potato,  sugar, 
flavouring  and  coco-nut.  Place  a  layer  of 
this  in  a  pie-dish,  spread  with  jam  and  cover 
with  the  remainder  of  the  maize  preparation. 
Brush  over  with  fat  and  bake  to  a  nice  colour. 
The  pie-dish  should  be  placed  in  a  baking- 
tin  with  water  to  prevent  overheating  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish. 


Potato  and  Maize  Pudding — 2 

Materials. — J  lb.  maize,  |  pint  of  milk, 
J  lb.  dry  mashed  potatoes,  almond  flavouring 
to  taste,  1  oz.  ground  almonds,  1  beaten  egg, 
1  oz.  sugar  or  syrup,  1  oz.  fat,  4  oz.  steamed 
or  baked  chopped  beetroot. 

Method. — Soak  the  maize  in  the  milk  over- 
night for  about  8  hours.  Add  all  the  re- 
maining ingredients,  mix  together,  and  bake 
in  a  pie-dish  like  a  bread-and-butter  pudding. 

The  above  ingredients  will  make  a  steamed 
pudding  by  adding  8  oz.  self-raising  flour 
and  steaming  for  2  hours  or  more. 

Semolina  Cheese  Cakes 

Materials. — 1  gill  maize  semolina,  1  pint 
of  milk  and  water  mixed,  sugar  or  syrup  to 
sweeten,  a  little  almond  essence,  a  little  jam. 
13 


194    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Method. — Boil  the  maize  semolina  in  the 
milk  and  water  (or  all  milk  if  desired). 
Place  in  a  tin  and  steam  for  1  hour.  Turn 
into  a  basin,  sweeten  with  the  sugar  or 
syrup,  and  add  the  almond  essence  to  flavour. 
Line  patty  pans  with  potato  paste,  place  a 
little  jam  of  any  kind  at  the  bottom,  cover 
with  the  semolina,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  nicely  coloured — about  20  minutes. 

Maize  and  Marmalade  Charlotte 

Line  some  timbale  moulds  with  potato 
short  paste  (see  p.  183).  One-third  fill  with 
marmalade,  then,  till  three-quarters  full,  with 
the  maize  prepared  as  in  previous  recipe. 
Bake  for  20  minutes.  Turn  out,  and  serve 
with  custard. 

Orange  Maize  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  maize  semolina,  1  gill 
water,  1  oz.  suet  or  fat,  4  oz.  soaked  and 
squeezed  bread  crusts,  1  oz.  marmalade, 
I  gill  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flavour  to 
taste,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal,  2  oz. 
self-raising  flour. 

Method. -^Boil  the  maize  semolina  and 
fat  together  in  the  water.     ^Vhen  dry,  add 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  195 

the  bread,  marmalade,  milk,  salt,  flavouring 
and  cochineal,  and  last  of  all  mix  in  the 
flour.  Steam  for  2  hours,  and  serve  with 
custard  sauce  or  marmalade  sauce. 


Sago  Jelly 

Materials. — |  lb.  prunes  or  other  dried 
fruit,  1  bay  leaf,  a  few  cloves,  2  oz.  sago, 
a  few  drops  of  cochineal,  almond  and 
caramel  essence,  a  little  diluted  corn  or 
potato  flour. 

Method. — Boil  |  lb.  prunes  in  1  quart  of 
water,  with  the  bay  leaf  and  cloves,  till 
tender.  When  done,  remove  1  pint  of 
the  liquid  remaining,  and  slowly  boil  this 
with  the  sago  until  the  liquid  is  clear,  none 
of  the  sago  being  visible.  Colour  with  a 
few  drops  of  cochineal  and  caramel  to 
deepen  the  prune  colour,  also  a  few  drops 
of  almond  essence.  Pour  it,  when  boiling, 
into  a  wetted  mould  to  set,  and  dish  up 
garnished  with  the  remainder  of  the  prunes. 
The  liquid  remaining  should  be  slightly 
thickened  with  diluted  corn  or  potato  flour 
and  poured  round  the  mould. 

The  same  method  can  be  used  with  any 
kind  of  fruit  or  fruit  juice,  and  can  be  served 
without  the  fruit,  adding  a  custard  sauce. 


196    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Potato  Pudding 

Materials. — 1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  gill   of   milk,    1   lb.   dry   mashed   potato, 

2  oz.    dried   fruit,    8   oz.    self-raising   flour, 
custard  sauce. 

Method. — Cream  the  fat,  sugar  and  eggs 
together,  add  the  remaining  ingredients, 
and  mix  well.  Steam  for  2  hours,  and 
serve  with  custard  sauce  (see  p.  46). 

Potato  Souffl6  Pudding 

(No  Fat  except  for  Greasing  the 
Mould) 

Materials. — 1    lb.    dry   mashed   potatoes, 

2  oz.    sugar,    J  pint  milk,    2   oz.    flour,    2 
oz.  mixed  fruit,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind, 

3  eggs,  a  little  sugar  and  crushed  coco-nut, 
a  pinch  of  salt. 

Method. — Mix  the  potatoes,  sugar,  milk, 
the  flour,  fruit  and  lemon  rind  together, 
adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  over  the  fire 
till  creamy,  then  add  1  whole  egg  and 
2  yolks  of  egg,  and  mix  well.  Beat  to  a 
firm  froth  the  2  whites  remaining,  add  these 
to  the  pudding  mixture,  folding  the  mixture 
over  to  blend  the  whites  without  too  much 
working.     Grease   a   quart   pudding-mould, 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  197 

or  two  pint  moulds  or  smaller  sizes,  as  the 
case  may  be.  Next  line  with  sugar  or 
crushed  coco-nut,  and  fill  three-quarters  full 
with  the  mixture.  Then  place  the  mould 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  (the  water 
should  reach  to  half  the  height  of  the 
mould),  bring  the  water  to  the  boil  again, 
boiling  until  the  mixture  has  risen  nearly 
to  the  edge  of  the  mould.  Place  the  sauce- 
pan (without  the  lid)  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  cook.  Small  moulds  require  20  minutes, 
pints  30  to  40  minutes,  quarts  1  hour  to 
Ij  hour.  Serve  with  custard  or  fruit  sauce 
(see  p.  46). 

Apple  Charlotte 

Materials. — J  oz.  fat,  ^  oz.  sugar,  4  oz. 
dried  apples,  a  little  clove  or  cinnamon  and 
lemon  rind  to  flavour,  potato  short  crust 
(see  p.  183). 

Method. — Fry  the  fat  and  sugar  till  toffee 
is  formed  ;  add  the  apples,  and  cover  with 
water  (about  1  pint).  Cook  slowly  until 
the  apples  break  up,  then  add  the  flavouring. 
Line  timbale  moulds  with  potato  short 
crust,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  for 
20  to  30  minutes. 


198    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Baked  Maize  and  Apple  Pudding 

Materials. — 8  oz.  maize  semolina,  1  lb. 
apples  peeled  and  chopped,  2  oz.  sugar  or 
syrup,  2  beaten  eggs  (dried),  a  little  fat  and 
crumbs,  1  clove  or  little  lemon  rind,  jam  or 
parsnip  sauce. 

Method. — Cook  the  maize  semolina  in 
1  pint  and  1  gill  of  water  until  dry  (about 
15  to  20  minutes).  Add  the  apples,  sugar 
and  eggs,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Line 
small  timbale  moulds  with  fat  and  crumbs, 
fill  the  mould  nearly  full  with  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  25  to 
30  minutes.  Serve  with  jam  or  parsnip 
sauce  to  which  the  peelings  and  the  cores 
of  the  apples  have  been  added. 

A  clove  can  be  placed  at  the  bottom  of 
the  mould,  or  a  little  lemon  flavour  added  to 
the  mixture. 

Orange  Pudding 

Materials. — 8  oz.  stale  bread,  2  oz.  chopped 
suet,  1  orange,  2  oz.  sugar,  custard. 

Method. — Soak  the  bread ;  squeeze  all 
the  moisture  out  and  mix  with  the  suet. 
A  dust  of  flour  is  used  while  chopping  the 
suet,  as  it  prevents  it  from  sticking  to  the 
chopper.     Peel   the    orange,    and   shred   or 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  199 

chop  the  peel  finely.  Boil  it  in  water  until 
tender,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  orange 
and  the  sugar,  and  boil  all  together  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Put  this  with  the 
bread  and  suet  and  mix  wxll,  then  place 
in  a  greased  basin  and  steam  for  2  hours. 
When  done,  turn  out  the  pudding,  and  serve 
with  custard  made  with  custard  powder. 

Marmalade  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
orange  and  sugar. 


Mince  Meat 

Materials. — 2  oz.  chopped  suet,  4  oz. 
chopped  apples,  fried  in  a  little  fat,  the  apple 
peels,  2  oz.  baked  parsnip,  2  oz.  beetroot 
jam,  5  oz.  mixed  fruit,  or  currants,  raisins 
and  dates  (elderberry  flowers  will  give  the 
raisin  flavour),  the  boiled  peel  of  a  lemon, 
the  boiled  peel  of  an  orange.  Pass  all  these 
through  a  mincer  and  then  add — a  few  drops 
of  caramel,  almond  essence  to  taste,  the 
juice  of  the  orange  and  lemon,  J  oz.  ground 
ginger,  J  oz.  ground  cinnamon,  |  oz.  ground 
clove,  -^  oz.  ground  nutmeg.  Mix  all 
together  and  press  in  a  jar  for  one  day  before 
use.  Baked  beetroot  cut  into  small  dia- 
monds may  be  used  instead  of  sultana 
raisins. 


200    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

War  Christmas  Pudding 

Materials. — 2  oz.  chopped  suet,  4  oz. 
apples,  chopped  and  fried  in  a  little  fat,  the 
peels  of  the  apples  chopped  finely,  2  oz. 
baked  parsnip,  2  oz.  beetroot  jam,  2  oz. 
currants,  2  oz.  stoned  raisins,  1  oz.  dates,  1 
lemon  (of  which  the  juice  is  removed  to  be 
mixed  in  the  pudding),  boiled  in  water  till 
tender.  Pass  all  the  above  ingredients 
through  a  mincing-machine  and  add — 
I  oz.  ground  ginger,  J  oz.  ground  cinnamon, 
J  oz.  ground  clove,  ^  oz.  ground  nutmeg,  a 
few  drops  of  almond  essence,  4  oz.  prepared 
flour  (half  rice,  half  standard).  When 
mixed,  put  into  a  greased  basin  and  steam 
for  4  hours. 

Potato  Gnocchi  and  Raisin  Flan 

Materials. — Potato  pie  crust  (see  p.  181), 
I  lb.  stoned  raisins,  |  pint  water,  1  table- 
spoonful  syrup,  a  little  spice  or  lemon  rind, 
I  lb.  potato  gnocchi  (see  p.  187). 

Method. — Line  a  tin  plate  with  potato 
pie  crust.  Boil  the  raisins  in  water,  add 
the  syrup  and  a  little  spice  or  lemon  rind. 
Prepare  the  potato  gnocchi  and  cook  these 
with  the  raisins  for  10  to  15  minutes.     Let 


PASTRY  AND  SWEETS  201 

cool.  Fill  the  plate  with  this  mixture,  wet 
the  edges,  roll  out  part  of  the  paste  and  cut 
into  strips.  Arrange  these  trellis  fashion  over 
the  gnocchi  preparation  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.     Serve  hot. 


Potato  Lemon  Pudding 

Materials. — 1  lb.  baked  potatoes,  2  oz. 
sugar  or  syrup,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
2  dried  eggs,  4  oz.  prepared  flour,  1  gill  of 
milk,  custard  sauce. 

Method. — Take  the  pulp  of  the  potatoes, 
mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  Grease  a 
pudding  basin,  fill  in  the  mixture  and  steam 
for  at  least  2  hours.  Serve  with  custard 
sauce  (see  p.  46). 


CHAPTER    VIII 
EGG  DISHES 


One  may  suffer  in  health  from  over-feeding 
quite  as  much  as  from  under-feeding. 


CHAPTER   VIII 
EGG  DISHES 

To  Prepare  Dried  Eggs 

Prepare    according    to    directions    on    the 
box. 

The  Use  of  Dried  Eggs 

These  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner  as 
whole  fresh  eggs. 

Egg  Turnovers 

Method. — Prepare  short  paste  (see  p.  183), 
fill  with  scrambled  eggs,  and  shape  as  turn- 
overs. Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Other  material 
may  be  added,  such  as  cooked  flaked  fish, 
chopped  nuts,  cooked  chopped  potato,  grated 
cheese,  herbs,  etc.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Poached  Eggs  Jardiniere 
Materials.  —  A     few     mixed     vegetables 


206    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

(cooked),    sufficient    white    sauce   to   cream 
or  bind  (see  p.  41),  eggs. 

Method. — Cook  the  vegetables  as  directed 
for  stock  (see  p.  20)  ;  drain  well.  Dry  over 
the  fire  and  add  sufficient  white  sauce  to 
bind.  Place  in  a  dish,  and  arrange  the 
poached  eggs  on  the  vegetables. 

Egg  Aurora 

Materials. — 2  hard-boiled  eggs,  white 
sauce  and  tomato  sauce  in  equal  quantities, 
breadcrumbs  or  chopped  yolk  of  hard-boiled 

egg- 

Method. — Slice  the    eggs,   mix  the  white 

sauce  and  tomato   sauce  together,  place  a 

little  on  a  dish,  arrange  the  sliced  egg,  cover 

with  sauce,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  or  chopped 

yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg,  and  bake  lightly  in 

an  oven  or  under  a  grill. 

Omelette  with  Dried  Eggs 

Omelettes  are  made  as  well  with  dried 
eggs  as  with  fresh.  The  eggs  should  be 
beaten  till  thoroughly  blended  but  not  frothy. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  any  addition 
desired,  such  as  parsley,  cheese,  minced  ham, 
potato,   shrimps,   chopped   fish,   vegetables, 


EGG  DISHES  207 

etc.  Only  ^  oz.  fat  should  be  used  for  2  or 
3  eggs — more  fat  spoils  the  omelette.  Have 
the  fat  hot  in  the  pan  before  adding  the 
eggs.  Be  careful  when  using  dried  eggs  not 
to  add  more  water  than  three  times  the  weight 
of  egg,  otherwise  the  mixture  will  separate 
in  the  cooking,  and  they  must  be  thoroughly 
soaked  for  at  least  12  hours  and  be  quite 
smooth. 


Baked  Marrow  or  Cucumber  and  Egg 

Materials. — 1  marrow,  thick  white  sauce 
(see  p.  41),  a  little  grated  cheese,  tomato 
or  other  sauce,  seasoning  to  taste,  1  egg  (hard 
boiled),  a  little  flour  and  frying  batter  or 
crumbs,  some  mashed  potato. 

Method. — Cook  the  marrow  (see  p.  149), 
but  keep  fairly  firm,  drain,  and  trim  the 
pieces  2  inches  by  2  inches.  Mash  the 
trimmings,  which  boil  with  a  thick  white 
sauce  as  stiff  as  possible,  mix  with  grated 
cheese  and  season  highly,  as  without  this 
marrow  is  insipid.  Cut  the  egg  into  dice 
or  chop  finely,  or,  if  desired,  slice  it.  Put 
this  into  the  sauce  and  sandwich  the  two 
slices  of  marrow  together.  It  is  essential 
that  the  marrow  should  be  well  dried,  other- 
wise the  pieces  will  not  hold  together.     When 


208     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

cold  pass  through  flour,  and  also  through 
frying  batter,  or  through  coating  batter  and 
breadcrumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a 
golden  colour.  Serve  with  tomato  or  other 
sauce.  This  dish  may  be  garnished  with 
mashed  potato  or  other  vegetable ;  and 
instead  of  egg,  minced  or  sliced  meat  or  nuts 
may  be  used. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Peas  Pur6e  Baked 

Materials. — Peas,  seasoning  to  taste,  a 
little  fat  or  milk,  some  poached  eggs,  white 
sauce  (see  p.  41),  grated  cheese. 

Method, — Steam  the  peas,  and  when  done 
pass  through  a  sieve.  Split  peas  are  the 
best  for  this  purpose.  Season,  and  add  a 
little  fat  and  milk.  Make  a  bed  of  this  on  a 
baking-dish  (fireproof),  place  on  it  a  number 
of  poached  eggs,  well  drained  and  cooked 
not  more  than  8  minutes,  sauce  over  with 
thick  white  sauce,  which  should  be  boiling 
hot,  or  when  placed  in  the  oven  it  will  become 
thin,  and  then  the  sauce  will  run  down  off 
the  eggs,  spoiling  the  appearance  of  the  dish, 
and  hardening  the  eggs  during  the  process 
of  baking.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and 
bake  quickly  to  a  nice  brown  colour. 


EGG  DISHES  209 

Eggs  Poulette 

Materials. — 2  hard-boiled  eggs,  |  oz.  of  fat, 
1  onion,  J  pint  white  sauce  (see  p.  41),  a 
few  sliced  cooked  mushrooms,  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Method. — Slightly  fry  the  onion  in  the  fat 
and  cut  in  slices,  and  mix  this  with  the  white 
sauce  and  cook  till  the  onions  are  done.  Add 
the  mushrooms  and  lemon  juice.  Slice  the 
eggs,  mix  all  together,  heat  thoroughly,  and 
dish  up  with  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  on  top. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Bread  Sauce 

Materials. — 2  oz.  bread,  J  pint  cold  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  and  nutmeg  or  mace,  2 
dried  eggs,  e.g.,  1  oz.  dried  egg  and  3  oz.  or 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

Method. — Break  up  the  bread  and  pour 
the  cold  milk  over  it,  season  to  taste.  Boil 
very  slowly.  The  bread  will  break  up  easier 
this  way  than  when  breadcrumbs  are  used. 
When  soft,  work  well  to  make  it  creamy, 
or  pass  through  a  sieve.  Add  to  this  the 
dried  eggs.  (It  takes  about  8  hours  to  soak 
for  granulated  eggs  and  1  hour  for  powder.) 
Work  well  together,  then  scramble  all  to- 
gether and  season  to  taste. 
14 


210     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

No  fat  is  required. 

This  makes  a  creamy  mass,  and  of  course 
much  larger  quantity  than  when  eggs  alone 
are  used. 

Maize  and  Egg  Savoury 

Materials. — Polenta  (see  p.  121),  scrambled 
egg,  a  little  grated  cheese  or  breadcrumbs. 

Method. — Cut  the  polenta  into  pieces, 
cover  with  a  cushion  of  scrambled  eggs, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  to  a 
golden  brown. 

Maize  Woodcock 

Materials. — Scrambled  eggs,  a  round  of 
polenta  (see  p.  121),  a  few  fillets  of  anchovy. 

Method. — Lay  a  layer  of  scrambled  eggs  on 
a  square  or  round  of  polenta.  Place  a  few 
fillets  of  anchovy  crosswise  on  the  top,  and 
heat  in  the  oven. 

Buck  Rarebit 

Materials. — A  round  or  square  of  polenta, 
a  tablespoonful  of  rarebit  mixture,  a  poached 

egg- 

Method. — Spread  the  cheese  mixture  on 
the  polenta.  Bake  to  a  golden  brown,  place 
the  poached  egg,  well  drained,  on  the  top. 


EGG  DISHES  211 

How  to  Poach  an  Egg 

Boil  sufficient  water  in  a  small  pan  to  cover 
the  egg,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
When  it  boils,  place  the  whole  egg  with  shell 
on  a  tablespoon  and  dip  it  in  the  boiling 
liquid  for  2  or  3  seconds.  Take  the  egg  out, 
break  it  and  drop  it  directly  over  the  surface 
of  the  water  in  the  liquid,  or  break  the  egg  on 
a  saucer  and  carefully  let  it  slide  into  the 
boiling  liquid.  Cover  with  the  lid,  remove 
the  pan  off  the  fire.  Let  poach  for  3 
minutes,  then  carefully  take  out  the  egg^ 
place  in  warm  water  to  wash  the  vinegar 
away,  and  drain  on  a  cloth. 

To  place  it  on  toast,  hold  the  toast  to  the 
side  of  the  egg  and  lift  the  egg  with  the  cloth 
so  that  the  egg  turns  over  on  to  the  toast. 

Polenta  may  be  used  instead  of  toast. 

Poached  eggs  can  be  served  with  any 
garnish  and  sauce. 


CHAPTER    IX 
BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES 


Knowledge  is  power  :  let  us  be  ready  to 
learn  all  we  can. 


914 


CHAPTER   IX 
BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES 

Potato  Sandwich  or  Cake 

Materials. — 2  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  sugar,  3  eggs 
(dried  or  fresh),  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  little  beetroot  jam  (see  p.  227), 
1  lb.  mashed  potato,  grated  rind  of  half 
a  lemon,  J  lb.  rice  flour,  1  tablespoonful 
whisky  or  brandy. 

Method. — Cream  the  fat  and  sugar,  then 
add  the  eggs  little  by  little,  and  the  potato 
and  lemon  rind,  and  beat  as  lightly  as 
possible.  Mix  the  rice  flour  and  baking 
powder  thoroughly  together  and  pass  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  this  to  the  mixture,  together 
with  the  whisky  or  brandy.  Grease  and 
flour  two  sandwich  tins,  or  prepare  a  cake 
hoop  similarly  with  paper  at  the  bottom 
to  form  a  drum.  Fill  with  the  mixture, 
spread  smooth,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

When  cold  spread  with  jam,  or  split  the 
cake  and  line  with  beetroot  jam. 

215 


216    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Note. — To  form  a  drum  is  to  place  a 
paper  on  the  table,  put  the  cake  hoop  on 
this,  and  fold  the  edges  round  the  border 
of  the  tin  to  form  a  drum. 


Ginger  Cake 

Materials. — 8  oz.  dry  mashed  potato, 
2  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  syrup,  \  oz.  ginger  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  other  spice  (clove,  cinnamon 
or  nutmeg),  half-teaspoonful  bicarbonate  of 
soda,  4  oz.  corn  flour,  4  oz.  ordinary  flour. 

Method. — Cream  the  mashed  potatoes 
with  the  fat,  syrup  and  spice,  and  then 
mix  lightly  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Bake  like  an  ordinary  cake  for  1  hour.  Add 
a  little  milk  if  necessary. 

Ginger  Nuts  (no  Fat) 

Materials. — 8  oz.  dry  mashed  potato,  1  oz. 
syrup,  4  oz.  rice  flour,  4  oz.  self-raising  flour, 
4  oz.  chopped  baked  beetroot,  1  teaspoonful 
ginger  (heaped),  1  gill  of  water  or  milk. 

Method. — Mix  all  the  ingredients  together, 
dissolve  the  syrup  in  the  moisture,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Roll  on  the  pastry-board  to 
form  a  roll,  flatten  slightly  and  cut  into 
slices    I    inch    thick.     Bake    on    a    greased 


BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES     217 

baking-sheet  for  15  to  20  minutes.     When 
half  baked,  turn  over  and  finish  cooking. 


Maize  Sandwich  Cake 

Materials. — |  lb.  finest  maize  semolina, 
I  pint  of  milk,  2  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  sugar,  3  dried 
eggs,  4  oz.  mashed  potato,  rind  of  half  a 
lemon,  a  few  drops  of  almond  essence,  1 
tablespoonful  spirit,  |  lb.  self-raising  flour, 
juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Method. — Soak  the  maize  in  the  milk  for 
8  to  12  hours.  Cream  the  fat  and  sugar, 
add  the  eggs  and  potato,  lemon  rind  and 
almond  essence,  and  beat  to  make  as  light 
as  possible.  Now  add  the  maize  and  self- 
raising  flour,  lemon  juice  and  spirit.  Place 
in  a  cake  tin  or  sandwich  tins  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  If  baked  as  a  sandwich, 
spread  with  jam. 

Potato  and  Jam  Rings 

Materials. — 2  oz.  syrup,  |  lb.  potato 
pur6e,  I  oz.  fat,  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  1  dried  egg^  J  lb.  rice  flour,  |  lb. 
standard  flour,  jam  for  filling. 

Method. — Mix  the  syrup,  potato  pur6e, 
fat   and    egg    together,    beating   as   lightly 


218     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

as  possible.  Add  the  rice  flour,  standard 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Fill  in  a  forcing- 
bag  with  star  or  rose  tube  and  force  out  on 
to  a  baking-sheet,  greased  and  dusted  with 
flour,  to  form  rings.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  baked,  fill  the  centre  with 
jam. 

Hot  Potato  Cake 

Materials. — 1  lb.  mashed  potato,  2  oz.  fat, 
2  oz.  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  flavouring 
(lemon  or  vanilla),  2  eggs,  a  few  bread- 
crumbs, syrup. 

Method. — This  is  made  with  cooked 
potatoes,  preferably  baked.  Mix  the  potato, 
fat,  sugar,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  salt, 
and  flavouring  to  taste,  lightly  fold  in  the 
white  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  firm  froth.  Line 
a  cake  tin  with  fat  and  breadcrumbs  and 
fill  with  the  mixture.  Bake  for  about 
30  minutes  and  serve  with  syrup,  or  if  any 
juice  is  left  over  from  the  stewed  fruit,  boil 
this  up  and  thicken  with  diluted  potato  or 
corn  flour  to  a  light  syrup,  and  use. 

Potato  Rock  Cakes 

Materials. — |  lb.  dry  mashed  potatoes, 
1   dessertspoonful  of  oil  or  fat,   4  oz.  rice 


BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES     219 

flour,  4  oz.  ordinary  flour,  f  oz.  baking 
powder,  |  oz.  spice,  |  oz.  sugar  and  beet- 
root chips  or  fruit. 

Method. — Mix  the  mash  with  the  oil  ; 
add  the  rice  flour,  and  let  rest  for  12  hours 
or  more,  then  mix  with  the  other  ingredients 
but  do  not  add  any  moisture.  Prepare  by 
cutting  with  a  fork  parcels  of  paste,  place 
these  on  a  baking-sheet  and  spread  out  to 
make  them  look  larger.  Let  rest  for  10  to 
15  minutes,  then  bake  in  a  sharp  oven. 

Maize  and  Potato  Cakes 

Materials. — \  pint  milk,  \  lb.  potato 
puree,  1  gill  maize  meal,  a  little  jam  and 
flour,  J  oz.  fat,  1  oz.  sugar  or  syi'up,  almond 
flavouring. 

Method. — Boil  the  milk  w^ith  the  potato, 
maize  meal  and  fat  for  20  minutes ;  add 
the  syrup  or  sugar  and  almond  flavouring 
to  taste.  Place  on  a  dish  to  cool  quite 
level,  or  fill  a  bread  tin  with  the  mixture. 
When  cold  cut  into  squares  or  slices,  dust 
with  flour,  grease  a  frying-pan  or  baking- 
sheet  and  fry  or  bake  to  a  nice  colour.  Serve 
with  jam. 

Turn  Overs 

Materials. — Potato  short  paste  (see  p.  181), 


220    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

a  few  apples,  a  little  moist  sugar  or  syrup,  a 
few  cloves. 

Method. — Roll  out  the  potato  pie  paste 
and  cut  into  rounds ;  wet  the  surface. 
Chop  up  the  apples,  mix  with  a  little  moist 
sugar  or  syrup,  and  place  in  the  centre  of  the 
rounds,  also  1  clove  in  each.  Fold  the 
paste  to  enclose  the  apples,  press  the  ends 
well  together,  prick  a  hole  in  the  centre, 
and  bake  in  a  good  oven  for  about  20 
minutes. 

The  above  filled  with  beetroot  jam  or  any 
other  filling  are  equally  good. 

Potato  Bread 

Materials. — 1  lb.  bread  dough,  J  lb.  dry 
mashed  potato. 

Method. — Mix  well  together,  place  in 
gi-eased  and  floured  tins,  let  prove,  and  bake 
as  usual. 

Pea  Bread 

Materials. — 1  gill  of  yellow  split  peas. 

Method. — Steam  the  split  peas,  soaked  for 
24  hours  (this  gives  |  lb.  of  cooked  peas), 
pass  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  as  directed 
for  potato  bread. 

Lentils  and    haricot    beans   can  be  used 


BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES     221 

in    the    same    manner,    but    peas    give    the 
best  flavoured  bread. 


Potato  Buns 

Materials. — |  lb.  mashed  potato,  4  oz. 
rice  flour,  J  lb.  ordinary  yeast  dough,  ^  oz. 
sugar,  a  little  spice,  1  oz.  liquid  fat,  fruit 
or  beetroot  chips. 

Method. — Mix  the  potato  with  the  rice 
flour  and  let  this  rest  for  12  hours  or  more. 
A  natural  ferment  will  change  part  of  the 
starch  into  sugar,  and  the  paste  will  be  quite 
sweet  after  that  time.  To  the  bread  dough 
add  the  prepared  mixture,  spice,  sugar  and 
the  liquid  fat  or  oil,  fruit  or  beetroot  chips. 
Shape  into  buns,  place  on  greased  tins  dusted 
with  flour,  cover  and  let  fully  prove,  then 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

Potato  Rolls 

Materials. — |  lb.  bread  dough,  1  lb. 
mashed  potatoes,  |  oz.  fat,  1  egg,  a  little  salt. 

Method. — Mix  the  ingredients  into  a  stiff 
paste  and  form  into  rolls.  Place  on  a  cloth 
sprinkled  thickly  with  rice  flour  (this  must 
be  used  again),  allow  to  rise,  not  quite  full, 
turn  over  on  the  baking-sheet,  and  then  bake 


222     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

in  a  hot  oven.  These  can  be  made  with 
baking  powder,  in  which  case  leave  for  10  to 
15  minutes  before  baking. 

The  rolls  flattened  with  a  rolling-pin, 
lightly  spread  with  beetroot  or  other  jam, 
rolled  and  baked,  are  good  for  children's  teas. 


Potato  Scones 

Materials. — 1  lb.  dry  mashed  potatoes, 
I  oz.  fat,  1  white  of  egg,  a  little  salt,  |  lb. 
self-raising  flour. 

Method.  — Mix  the  ingredients  together, 
adding  moisture,  if  necessary,  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Shape  into  scones,  and  allow  to 
rest  for  10  to  15  minutes,  then  bake  in  the 
oven  or  on  the  hot-plate  or  girdle. 

If  the  scones  are  baked  in  a  frying-pan 
covered  with  a  lid,  they  are  then  kept  free 
from  draught  during  the  cooking  and  are 
very  successful.  When  risen,  turn  over,  and 
finish  baking. 

Drop  Scones 

Materials. — J  lb.  dry  mashed  potato,  1 
whole  beaten  egg,  |  lb.  prepared  flour,  a 
little  water  and  milk,  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  sugar. 

Method. — Mix  the   potato,  egg,  flour,  salt 


BREAD,  CAKES  AND  SCONES     223 

and  sugar  with  sufficient  water  and  milk 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  the  mixture 
on  a  Hghtly  greased  hot-plate  or  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and,  when  set,  turn  over,  but  do  not  let 
them  rest  too  long  on  one  side.  Potatoes 
lose  body  in  the  cooking;  it  is,  therefore, 
better  that  all  paste  made  with  potato 
should  be  kept  firm,  that  is  without  much 
liquid. 

Maize  and  Potato  Bread 

(A  Bread  of  which  One  cannot  Eat 
Much) 

Materials. — 1  lb.  potatoes,  |  oz.  salt, 
^  lb.  maize  semolina,  1|  lb.  flour,  1  oz. 
yeast,  4  oz.  rice  flour. 

Method. — Boil  the  potatoes  and  |  oz.  of 
salt  in  water.  When  done,  drain  (reserve 
the  water)  and  mash.  Return  the  potato  to 
the  liquid,  which  should  be  1  pint.  Boil 
again,  and  add  the  maize,  cooking  until  all 
moisture  has  been  absorbed.  Place  in  a  tin 
or  double  cooker  and  steam  for  1  hour. 
Prepare  a  bread  dough  with  the  flour,  yeast 
and  I  oz.  salt.  When  the  maize  is  cooked, 
turn  out  and  allow  to  cool  until  just  tepid, 
then  mix  with  the  bread  dough.  Shape  into 
loaves,   and    place    in   greased   bread   tins, 


224     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

using  the  rice  flour  in  the  shaping.  This 
will  give  4 J  lb.  of  bread,  which  will  keep 
well  and  is  very  satisfying. 


Potato  Toast 

Materials. — 6  oz.  mashed  potatoes,  dry 
and  warm,  1  oz.  rice  flour,  half-teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt. 

Method. — Mix  together,  spread  on  a 
greased  and  floured  baking-sheet,  and  bake. 
Cut  into  squares,  and  then  toast  in  the  oven. 
Or  mix  1  lb.  of  mashed  potatoes  with  1 
beaten  egg  (fresh  or  dried),  season,  and  then 
spread  out  on  a  greased  and  floured  baking- 
sheet.  Prick  all  over,  bake  in  the  oven  until 
a  golden  brown,  cut  into  squares  or  fingers, 
and  dry  in  the  oven. 

Haricot  Beans  and  Rice  Biscuits 

Materials. — Same  ingredients  as  in  the 
recipe  on  p.  181,  adding  4  oz.  rice  flour. 

Method. — Add  sufficient  rice  flour  to  the 
other  ingredients  to  form  a  fairly  stiff  paste. 
Roll  out,  and  cut  with  a  tin  lid.  Place  on  a 
baking-sheet ;  prick  with  a  skewer,  and  bake 
till  crisp. 


CHAPTER    X 

SUNDRIES,   INCLUDING  POCKET 
LUNCHES  AND  INVALID  DISHES 


15 


What  is  asked  of  our  fighting  men  ?  Their 
lives — their  hmbs.  What  is  asked  of  us? 
Economy  in  Food  and  in  Fuel. 


22^ 


CHAPTER    X 

SUNDRIES,   INCLUDING   POCKET 
LUNCHES  AND  INVALID  DISHES 

Beetroot  Jam 

Materials. — 2  lb.  beetroot,  1  oz.  sago, 
I  lb.  raspberry  or  other  strongly  flavoured 
jam,  a  little  almond  essence  or  raspberry 
flavour,  cochineal. 

Method. — Roll  the  beetroot  in  a  sheet  of 
paper  and  bake  like  a  baked  potato,  or 
place  in  a  tin  after  thoroughly  scrubbing 
and  washing,  but  do  not  break  the  skin,  or 
the  beet  will  bleed.  Allow  about  2  hours 
to  cook.  WTien  done,  peel  and  pass  through 
a  mincing-machine  until  quite  fine.  Soak 
the  sago  for  12  hours  or  more  in  1  pint  of 
cold  water,  then  boil  until  clear,  and  add 
the  beetroot.  This  should  be  done  in  a 
preserving  -  pan.  Then  add  the  jam,  and 
boil  on  until  thick  enough,  and  then  add 
the  flavouring,  and  pour  into  jars. 

This  jam  will  keep  for  a  week,  but  if  desired 

227 


228     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

to  preserve  for  longer,  the  jars  must  be 
placed  in  water  and  slowly  boiled  until  at 
boiling  heat  right  through — about  20  minutes. 
Then  cook  at  once.  The  jam  will  then 
keep  like  any  preserve,  and,  when  opened, 
will  remain  good  for  3  days. 

Red  Currant  Jelly  (Imitation) 

Materials. — 2  oz.  tapioca,  1  lb.  grated 
beetroot,  2  bundles  of  forced  rhubarb,  4  to 
8  oz.  sugar. 

Method. — Soak  the  tapioca  in  1  pint  of 
water  for  12  hours.  Boil  this  in  a  preserving- 
pan,  adding  the  beetroot  and  rhubarb, 
shredded  finely,  with  skin  and  all.  Boil 
till  clear,  strain  the  liquid,  add  the  sugar, 
then  boil  until  1  pint  remains.  Pour  into 
a  jar  and  let  it  set.  Any  apple  parings 
can  be  added.  Small  beetroots  are  best  for 
this  purpose. 

Apricot  and  Carrot  Jam 

Materials. — 1  lb.  grated  carrot,  4  oz. 
dried  apricots,  1  oz.  sago,  4  oz.  sugar,  a 
little  almond  essence  to  taste. 

Method. — Soak  the  apricots  for  24  hours, 
then  boil  with  the  carrot  in  1  pint  of  water 


SUNDRIES  229 

in  which  the  sago  has  been  previously 
soaked.  Add  the  sugar,  and  boil  until  clear, 
flavouring  with  almond  essence  to  make 
1  pint. 

The  liquid  of  any  apple  peelings  and  cores 
available,  first  boiled  in  water  until  done 
and  then  strained,  can  be  used  with  the 
above  instead  of  water. 


Marmalade — 1 

Materials. — 1  orange,  half  a  lemon,  2  oz. 
tapioca  or  J  oz.  agar-agar  (a  vegetable 
gelatine),  4  oz.  sugar,  colouring. 

Method. — Cut  the  rinds  of  the  orange  and 
lemon,  shred  finely,  place  in  cold  water,  and 
bring  to  the  boil.  Strain  the  water  off, 
and  cover  with  fresh  water  and  boil  until 
tender.  Soak  the  tapioca  or  agar-agar  until 
soft,  add  to  the  shredded  peel,  and  make 
up  to  f  of  a  pint.  Now  add  the  sugar  and 
juice  of  the  fruit,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  cook 
till  three-quarters  of  the  original  quantity 
is  left,  then  pour  into  a  dry,  warm  jar  at 
once  to  set. 

Marmalade — 2 

Materials. — 1  orange,  1  lemon,  8  oz. 
grated  carrot,  2  oz.  soaked  tapioca,   8  oz. 


230    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

sugar,   almond   essence    to   taste,   colour  — 
cochineal  or  caramel. 

Method. — Boil  the  skins  of  the  orange  and 
lemon  in  water  for  5  minutes,  then  remove 
the  water  and  add  fresh.  Then  boil  the 
skins  until  tender ;  remove  the  greater 
part  of  the  pith  of  the  skins,  shred  the  re- 
mainder, place  in  a  preserving-pan  with  the 
red  part  only  of  the  grated  carrot.  Add 
the'  tapioca  (soaked  overnight  for  at  least 
12  hours)  and  sugar,  bring  to  the  boil, 
skim,  cover  with  a  lid,  and  simmer  for  30  to 
40  minutes.  Add  a  few  drops  of  almond 
essence  to  taste,  and  pour  into  hot  jars. 
This  should  produce  2  lb.  of  preserve. 


Potato  Cheese 

Materials. — 1  lb.  mashed  potato,  2  oz.  fat, 
2  oz.  rinds  of  cheese  grated  finely  or  chopped, 
1  oz.  salt,  cayenne  (as  much  as  will  lie  on 
a  sixpence),  1  gill  of  milk,  4  oz.  potato 
flour,  1  oz.  milk  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  colouring. 

Method. — Work  all  the  ingredients  well 
together,  place  over  the  fire  and  stir  until 
boiling  hot.  Place  in  a  muslin  in  a  basin 
with  a  saucer  or  small  plate  on  the  top. 


SUNDRIES  231 

When  cold,  take  out  of  the  basin  and  keep 
for  one  week  before  use. 

This  will  cut  like  cheddar  cheese.  Crushed 
with  a  fork  and  with  a  little  white  sauce 
added,  it  forms  a  creamy  mixture  which 
makes  excellent  rarebits  when  spread  on 
polenta  or  toast  and  baked  until  just  browned 
in  a  fairly  hot  oven  or  under  the  gas  grill. 

Maize  Crumbs 

Materials. — |  pint  of  water,  J  oz.  of 
salt,  I  lb.  maize  semolina,  5  oz.  rice 
flour. 

Method. — Boil  the  water  and  salt,  add  the 
maize,  then  stir,  and  keep  over  the  fire  till 
all  the  moisture  is  absorbed.  Turn  out 
on  a  pastry-board  and  allow  to  cool.  Mix 
with  the  rice,  flour  and  crumb  all ;  when 
quite  free  grain  from  grain,  pass  through 
a  coarse  sieve  or  colander.  Three-quarters 
fill  a  cocoa  tin  loosely  with  the  crumbs, 
cover  with  a  muslin  and  the  lid,  then  place 
in  boiling  water,  or  steam  for  f  of  an  hour. 
Remove  the  lid,  turn  out  the  contents  on 
a  sieve,  lightly  break  up  and  pass  without 
pressure  through  the  sieve  again.  These 
will  keep  any  time. 

If  they  are  too  dry  after  a  while,  moisten 


232    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

with  water  and  rub  between  the  hands  to 
make  them  like  fresh  crumbs. 


Savoury  Spice 

Materials. — 1  oz.  thyme  flower  only,  1  oz. 
bay  leaves,  J  oz.  dried  parsley,  1  oz.  pepper- 
corns, I  oz.  allspice,  |  oz.  nutmeg,  J  oz. 
clove,  I  oz.  ginger. 

Method. — Dry  and  crush  all  the  above 
ingredients,  then  pass  through  a  sieve  or 
coffee-mill,  place  in  a  tin,  and  use  as  directed. 
1  oz.  of  the  above  spice  added  to  1  lb.  of 
fine  salt  forms  prepared  salt  for  stuffings, 
force  meat,  sausages,  etc. 

Spiced  Sauce 

Materials. — 4  oz.  shallot  and  onion 
chopped  finely,  1  gill  mushroom  ketchup, 
J  gill  golden  syrup  or  treacle  or  brown 
sugar,  1  gill  anchovy  sauce,  1  quart  vinegar, 
1  clove  of  garlic,  16  allspice  and  8  cloves 
powdered,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  spice, 
1  teaspoonful  ground  ginger,  1  teaspoonful 
mustard,  cayenne  pepper. 

Bottle  the  whole,  shake  occasionally.  Use 
14  days  after  bottling. 


SUNDRIES  233 

Extract  of  Fat  and  Gelatine  from  Bones 

Break  the  bones  small,  place  in  a  jar, 
add  1  gill  of  water  to  each  pound  of  bones, 
seal  the  jar  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  steam 
for  6  hours. 

Examples. — 7  oz.  loin  of  mutton  bone 
produced — 1  oz.  fat,  2  oz.  jelly,  Ij  oz.  meat. 
1  lb.  9  oz.  veal  bones  produced — 2i  oz.  fat, 

I  gill  or  5  oz.  jelly,  8  oz.  meat.     4  lb.  beef 
bones,  leg    and   loin,    produced — 5   oz.    fat, 

II  oz.  jelly,  10  oz.  gristle  and  meat. 

The  jelly  should  be  used  in  pies,  the  gristle 
for  croquettes,  rissoles,  patties,  and  various 
other  preparations  mentioned  in  the  recipes 
in  this  book. 

To  Make  Coating  Batter 

This  batter  is  used  instead  of  egg  on 
rissoles,  etc. 

Mix  4  oz.  of  flour  or  a  mixture  of  flour 
(half  of  which  must  be  wheat  en  flour)  w^ith 
half  a  pint  of  water  or  milk,  or  w^ater  and 
milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  WTien  the  articles 
coated  are  to  be  baked,  a  little  oil  added 
to  the  batter  is  most  helpful  to  give  a  good 
colour  to  the  crumbs. 

To  make  batter  for  coating  fish  or  other 
substances    baked     instead     of     fried,    less 


234     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

moisture  must  be  used.  It  should  be  so 
thick  that  it  hangs  on  well,  and  at  least  half 
a  gill  of  oil  should  be  added  with  the  liquid 
and  baking  powder  (see  Frying  Batter). 


Fats 

Fats  must  be  used  as  moderately  as 
possible.  Oil,  if  obtainable,  is  an  economical 
fat.  It  may  be  used  with  coco-butter  with 
good  results. 

An  Inexpensive  Frying  Batter  without  Egg 

Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  self-raising  flour 
with  a  dessertspoonful  of  oil,  salt,  pepper 
and  sufficient  milk  or  water  to  make  the 
batter.  This  should  adhere  to  the  material 
to  be  cooked,  but  it  should  not  be  too  stiff. 

Suitable  for  sweet  (without  pepper)  or 
savoury  dishes  and  for  frying  or  baking. 

The  Use  of  Stale  Bread 

The  bread  should  be  dried  in  an  oven,  and 
stored  either  whole  or  ground  and  passed 
through  a  sieve.  The  crumbs  are  used  for 
bread  crumbing,  stuffings,  etc.,  the  whole 
bread  being  soaked  for  puddings  and  soups. 


SUNDRIES  235 

Bread  Panada 

Soak  2  oz.  of  bread  in  milk  or  water,  drain 
well,  and  stir  over  the  fire  to  boiling-point 
until  a  stiff  paste  is  formed. 

Biscuit  Meal 

Any  left  over  (raw)  paste  from  pies,  etc., 
should  be  rolled  out  and  baked,  dried  in  a 
very  slow  oven,  crushed  and  sieved,  and 
kept  in  a  tin.  When  soaked  it  absorbs 
much  water — roughly  2  quarts  to  1  lb.  of 
biscuit  meal. 

Butter^  Margarine^  Dripping,  Lard,  Oil, 
Coco-Butter 

Butter  is  not  used  for  cooking  now,  and 
margarine  is  generally  needed  for  table  use. 
If  margarine  is  used  for  cooking  it  should 
be  clarified  before  use,  as  the  substance  used 
for  binding  the  fats  usually  sets  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  to  which  many  failures 
in  frying  are  due.  All  skimmings  from 
stocks  should  be  kept  carefully,  and  water 
added,  then  boiled  up  and  strained.  When 
cold,  remove  the  fat,  scrape  the  bottom  of 
same,  and  clarify.  This  fat  is  the  best  of  all 
for  use  in  the  kitchen. 


236    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

To  Clarify  Coco-Butter 

Boil  with  plenty  of  water,  and  cool. 
Change  the  water  and  repeat  the  boiling. 
If  this  is  done  two  or  three  times  much  of 
the  coco  flavour  disappears. 

Use  in  moderation  combined  with  other 
fats  and  oil. 

To  Use  up  Pickle  Liquid 

When  pickles  are  used  up  there  remains 
vinegar  or  mustard  vinegar  in  the  bottle. 
To  utilise  this,  cut  a  carrot  into  pieces  and 
boil  for  5  minutes,  put  into  a  basin,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  add  a  dozen  small  onions,  a  few 
pieces  of  cauliflower  cooked  for  5  minutes, 
and  any  other  available  vegetable.  Sprinkle 
the  whole  with  salt  and  let  stand  24  hours. 

Boil  the  vinegar,  to  which  add  sufficient 
fresh  vinegar  to  cover  the  vegetables.  Boil 
together,  then  place  in  a  jar  and  cover. 
After  2  or  3  days  drain  the  vegetables.  Boil 
the  vinegar  down  to  full  strength,  and  if  it 
tastes  too  watery  add  more  vinegar,  then 
pour  in  the  vegetables  and  give  one  boiL 
Place  the  vegetables  in  the  jars  and  pour 
the  vinegar  over. 

If  mustard  pickles  are  wanted,  mix  a  little 


SUNDRIES  237 

mustard  powder  with  corn  flour,  using  half 
as  much  flour  as  mustard,  and  mix  with  cold 
vinegar  to  a  paste.  Pour  over  the  boiling 
vinegar  like  a  custard,  stir,  and  then  pour 
over  the  vegetables.  Seal  up,  and  keep  for  a 
week  before  using. 

To  Use  Cabbage  and  Cauliflower  Stalks 
as  Pickles 

The  tender  parts  of  cabbage  and  cauli- 
flower stalks,  when  skinned,  cut  in  neat 
pieces,  and  placed  in  salt  for  24  hours  with 
other  vegetables,  are  useful  to  add  to  pickles. 

Celery  Flavouring 

The  outside  of  celery  should  be  washed  and 
skinned,  dried  in  the  oven,  pulverised  and 
mixed  with  salt  to  make  celery  salt.  The 
green  tops  can  be  dried  in  the  oven  and  then 
reserved  for  flavouring  when  celery  is  not 
available. 

Cheese  Rind 

Thoroughly  remove  the  canvas  and  scrape 
the  rind  clean,  then  chop  or  grate.  Use  for 
rarebit,  gratin  dishes,  etc.  This  hard,  dry 
cheese  is  better  for  cooking  than  soft  cheese. 


238    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

To  Soak  a  Dried  Egg  for  Quick  Use 

Cover  the  dried  egg  with  tepid  water,  put 
in  a  warm  place,  and  stir  frequently  until  the 
egg  is  dissolved.  Pass  through  a  muslin 
before  using.  It  is  much  better,  however,  to 
soak  the  egg  overnight. 

To  Save  Fat  in  Sauces 

When  fat  is  not  available  for  making 
sauces,  the  best  method  for  thickening  is  to 
make  a  batter  with  flour,  corn  flour,  arrow- 
root or  potato  flour,  and  cold  water,  and  run 
this  into  the  boiling  liquid,  then  allow  it 
to  come  just  to  the  boil.  On  the  first  sign 
of  boiling  withdraw  it  from  the  fire. 

To  Toughen  a  Casserole 

Boil  in  water,  rub  the  outside  with  an 
onion,  and  then  fill  with  water  and  place  on 
the  fire  to  boil. 

The  best  method  of  strengthening  an 
earthenware  casserole  (red  pottery)  is  to 
brush  it  over  with  oil  and  bake  it  in  the 
oven.  This  will  harden  it  against  sudden 
air  currents.  The  older  they  are  the  tougher 
they  become. 


SUNDRIES  239 


a 


Stoving  '*  and  "  Sweating  *' 

The  words  "  stoving  "  and  "  sweating  "  are 
used  here  to  indicate  cooking  slowly  over 
gentle  heat,  so  that  the  meat,  fish  or  vege- 
table is  allowed  to  throw  out  the  moisture 
it  contains  and  then  the  food  cooks  in  its 
own  juice.  Thus  all  the  properties  of  the 
food  are  preserved  and  a  much  better  flavour 
is  obtained. 

To  Save  Fuel 

A  haybox  or  fireless  cooker  should  be  used. 
Food  can  also  be  cooked  in  covered  tins  or  jars 
placed  in  a  pot  and  surrounded  with  boiling 
water.  Several  tins  may  be  placed  in  one 
vessel,  and  thus  a  whole  dinner  can  be 
cooked  on  one  gas  ring  or  electric  plate. 

When  cooking  by  gas  the  cook  must 
exercise  her  intelligence  and  not  use  the 
oven  for  one  dish.  If  the  oven  is  needed, 
arrange  to  cook  all  other  dishes  in  it.  A 
little  thought  will  show  that  there  are 
numerous  methods  of  saving  coal,  wood, 
gas,  electricity  and  oil. 


240     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

INVALID  DISHES 

Note. — Cream  may  be  obtained  by  doctor's 
order. 

Peptonised  Milk 

To  1  pint  of  milk  add  J  pint  of  water. 
Heat  to  a  temperature  of  140°  F.  (60°  C), 
add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  pancreatic  liquor  and 
20  grs,  of  bicarbonate  of  soda ;  mix  this 
well.  Place  in  warm  water  to  keep  up  the 
temperature  for  1\  hour,  then  boil  212°  F. 
and  use  as  ordinary  milk. 

Peptonising  tablets  are  obtainable  at 
chemists  for  this  preparation. 

Peptonised  Foods 

Can  be  prepared  by  adding  an  equal 
amount  of  the  peptonised  milk  to  stock  or 
beef-tea  and  soups.  Jellies  can  be  made 
in  a  similar  manner,  preparing  them  as 
would  be  done  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Steamed  Meat  or  Fish 

Should  always  be  sealed  up  by  dipping 
in  boiling  water  before  being  placed  in  the 
steamer.  The  time  for  steaming  is  equal  to 
that  of  boiling,  except  for  the  necessary 
time  to  concentrate  the  steam  in  the  steamer. 


SUNDRIES  241 


Fish 


Place  the  fillets  of  fish  in  a  greased  dish, 
season  lightly,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  and  a  little  butter  on  each  fillet,  and 
poach  very  carefully  without  adding  any 
liquor. 

Grilled  Fish 

Season  the  fillets  of  fish,  pass  through 
flour,  shake  well  and  baste  with  oil,  then 
grill.  The  grill  should  be  very  hot  and  clean, 
otherwise  the  fish  sticks  ;  or  the  fillet  may  be 
placed  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  clarified 
fat  or  oil  and  very  slowly  fried,  then  drained. 
This  is  equal  to  grilling,  and  much  easier. 

Fish  Pudding 

Materials. — 1  fillet  of  whiting,  J  gill  of 
white  sauce  (see  p.  41),  1  tablespoonful  of 
cream,  the  white  of  an  egg. 

Method. — Pound  the  whiting,  add  the 
white  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pass 
through  a  sieve,  adding  the  cream  and  the 
white  of  egg  loosely  whipped.  Put  in  a 
buttered  mould  and  place  this  in  boiling 
water  reaching  to  within  three-quarter  the 
height  of  the  mould,  and  poach  very  care- 
fully. Turn  out  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce : — 
i6 


242     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

Materials. — A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
1  tablespoonful  of  cream. 

Method. — Boil  the  bones  of  the  whiting 
with  a  little  water  and  lemon  juice.  When 
done  (about  10  minutes),  strain  with  pressure 
and  reduce  the  liquid  till  it  forms  a  jelly. 
Add  the  cream,  season  if  necessary,  and  pour 
over  the  pudding. 

Poached  Fillets  of  Chicken 

Lift  the  fillets,  remove  the  sinews  of 
the  flesh,  place  in  a  greased  saucepan, 
season  very  lightly  with  salt,  place  the 
fillets  in  it  and  cover  with  greased  paper. 
Let  "  sweat "  very  slowly  for  5  minutes 
each  side.  Or  season  with  salt,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg  and  pass  through  bread- 
crumbs, flatten,  then  fry  in  oil  to  a  golden 
colour  (10  minutes).     Drain  before  serving. 

Quenelles 

Pound  the  fillet  of  chicken  with  salt  in  a 
mortar,  pass  through  sieve,  place  in  ice  in 
a  basin,  and  work  in  twice  the  amount  of 
cream,  a  little  at  a  time ;  each  time  make 
sure  that  the  mixture  is  quite  smooth 
before    adding    the    next    spoonful.     Shape 


SUNDRIES  243 

with  the  spoon,  or  in  a  greased  quenelle 
mould,  and  poach  (do  not  boil)  for  12  to 
15  minutes. 

Creams 

After  the  fillet  has  been  poached,  pound  in 
a  mortar,  add  the  liquid  and,  if  necessary, 
a  little  reduced  chicken  jelly.  Mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  loosely  whipped  cream 
and  place  in  a  glass  dish  or  in  a  mould  to  set. 

Souffle 

1.  Prepare  as  for  quenelles.  Add  half  of 
a  loosely  whipped  white  of  egg  and  poach 
as  a  pudding  very  slowly. 

2.  Pound  a  cooked  fillet,  add  ^  gill  of 
white  sauce  or  cream,  1  yolk  of  egg  and  a 
whipped  white.  Mix  lightly.  Place  in  a 
buttered  soufil6  dish  and  bake  in  the  oven, 
placed  in  a  water  bath. 

Sweetbread 

Soak  in  water  and  salt  for  12  hours, 
drain  and  parboil  for  10  minutes,  then  re- 
fresh and  place  under  press  to  cool.  Place 
with  chicken  stock  on  the  fire  and  poach 
till  tender.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce  : 


244     THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

1  yolk  of  egg,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  cream 
and  1  of  the  stock  in  which  the  sweet- 
bread was  cooked.  Season  to  taste  and 
cook  like  a  custard.  A  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  are  to  be  added. 

Fried  Sweetbread 

Cut  the  sweetbread  into  slices  (after  par- 
boiling and  pressing)  |  inch  thick.  Season, 
brush  over  with  egg  and  pass  through  the 
breadcrumbs.     Fry  in  oil. 

Tripe 

Stew  the  tripe  till  quite  tender,  then 
prepare  sauce  as  for  sweetbread  and  place 
the  tripe  in  it.  Cream  could  be  omitted 
and  milk  used  instead. 

Farinaceous  Food 

This  should  be  cooked  for  at  least  1  hour, 
and  only  fine  flour  used. 

Boiled  Egg 

Boil  the  water,  put  the  egg  in,  then  place 
on  the  side  of  the  stove  with  the  lid  on  for 


< 


SUNDRIES  245 

5  minutes.      This  leaves  the  white   like  a 
jelly. 

Ox  Cheek  Broth 

Take  one  slice  of  ox  cheek,  wash  well, 
place  in  a  saucepan  covered  with  water 
and  simmer  for  4  hours.  Strain.  This 
sets  to  a  jelly.  Any  cereal  can  be  added, 
such  as  rice  or  barley,  cooked  thoroughly 
and  then  strained. 

Bouilli 

Ox  cheek  stewed  for  hours  until  it  falls 
to  shreds,  pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  passed 
through  a  sieve.  The  liquor  added  makes  a 
pure  meat  jelly. 

Beef-Tea^  Mutton-Tea,  Veal-Tea,  Chicken- 
Tea,  etc. 

Half  a  pound  of  flesh  without  fat  or  gristle, 
shredded  or  pounded,  mixed  with  |  pint 
of  water  and  a  few^  grains  of  salt.  Allow 
to  stand  for  1  hour,  then  place  on  the  fire 
and  stir  with  a  fork  until  milky.  Strain 
through  strainer  and  press  all  the  juice  out. 
Allow  to  stand,  remove  all  fat,  season  to 
taste,  and  when  serving,  stir  so  as  to  use  the 


246    THE  VICTORY  COOKERY  BOOK 

sediment,   which   is  the   only   food   in   the 
tea. 

POCKET  LUNCHES 

Pies,  cutlets,  rissoles,  pasties,  sandwiches, 
brissoles,  sausages,  baked  beans,  nuts,  buns 
and  cake  are  suitable  for  pocket  lunches. 

Baked  Beans 

Soak  and  steam  the  beans,  then  lightly 
grease  with  oil,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
crisp.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Leave  until 
cold  ;  they  will  then  eat  crisp  like  nuts. 

Picnic  Roll 

Make  a  Ij  oz.  round  of  bread  dough,  lay 
in  the  centre  a  mixture  of  any  meat  or  fish 
preparation,  gather  the  edges  together  and 
shape  into  a  ball.  Turn  over  on  to  a  baking- 
sheet,  allow  the  dough  to  rise,  then  bake  in 
a  hot  oven,  like  a  roll  or  bun,  or  use  pastry 
instead  of  bread  dough. 

Potted  Rice  and  Meat  for  Sandwiches 

Materials. — 4  oz.  meat,  4  oz.  rice,  a  little 
stock,  salt  to  taste,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of 
spice,  2  oz.  fat. 


SUNDRIES  247 

Method. — Boil  the  meat  and  rice  in  a 
little  stock,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  pinch  of  spice.  Pass  through  a  mincer 
several  times  until  thoroughly  fine,  then 
add  the  fat,  pass  through  a  sieve  and  use 
for  sandwiches. 


Cheese,  Tomato  and  Nut  Sandwiches 

Materials. — 1  oz.  nut  butter  or  other  fat, 
2  oz.  grated  cheese,  2  oz.  grated  nuts,  |  lb. 
tomatoes,  a  little  pepper. 

Method. — Cut  the  tomatoes  in  four  and 
cook  till  tender,  then  pass  through  a  sieve. 
Next  stir  over  a  fire  till  thick,  let  cool,  and 
mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  Season  by 
adding  a  little  paprika  pepper,  and  make 
sandwiches  with  the  mixture.  This  mixture 
also  makes  a  very  nice  little  savoury. 


INDEX 


Apple  charlotte,  197. 

—  suet  pudding,  187. 
Apricot  and  carrot  jam,  228. 
Artichoke  cake,  154. 

—  fritters,  154. 
Artichokes,  153. 

Barley,  120. 

—  broth,  40. 

Batter,   frying    (without   egg), 

234. 
Beans,  baked,  246. 

—  Haricot,     119,     125,     126, 

159. 
Beef  (bully),  stew,  98. 

—  tea,  245. 
Beetroot  jam,  227. 

—  stewed,  158. 
Bercy  sauce,  45. 
Biscuit  meal,  235. 
Bone  stock,  17. 
BouilH,  245. 

Bread  dough  galette,  187. 

—  jelly,  189. 

—  maize  and  potato,  223. 

—  panada,  235. 

—  pea,  220. 

—  potato,  220. 

—  sauce,  42. 

(imitation),  42. 

—  the  use  of  stale,  234. 
Bream  (baked),  with  devilled 

mock  butter,  75. 

—  golden,  73. 

—  (roast),  with  tomato  sauce, 

74. 


Brown    vegetable     sauce    or 

gravy,  22. 
Buck  rarebit,  210. 
Bully  beef  stew,  98. 
Butter,  235. 

Cabbage,  161. 

—  and  onion  soup,  27. 

—  and  potato  soup,  29. 

—  creamed,  161. 

—  etc.,  stalks  for  pickling,  237. 

—  stew  and  liver  dumplings, 

104. 

—  (stoved),  and  rice,  131. 

—  (stuffed),  159. 
Caramel  pudding,  184. 
Carbohydrates,  6. 
Carrot  tops,  157, 
Carrots,  155. 

Casserole,  to  toughen  a,  238. 
Cauliflower,  154. 

—  au  gratin,  155. 
Celery,  150. 

—  flavouring,  237. 

—  soup,  32. 
Cereals,  13. 

—  method  of  cooking,  115. 
Chasseur  sauce,  44. 
Cheese,  11. 

—  rind,  237. 

—  tomato  and  nut  sandwiches, 

247. 
Chicken,    poached    fillets    of, 
242. 

—  tea,  245. 

Christmas  pudding,  war,  2cxd. 


249 


250 


INDEX 


Clear  (vegetable)  soup,  22 
Coating  batter,  to  make,  233. 
Cobbler's  pie,  95. 
Coco-butter,  235. 

to  clarify,  236. 

Corn-flour     cheese      mixture 

for  rarebit,  124. 
Crab,  creamed,  78. 
Cucumber  and  egg^  207. 
Curried  pulse,  134. 
Curry  sauce,  41. 
Custard  sauce,  46. 

Devil  sauce,  45. 
Dripping,  235. 
Drop  scones,  222. 
Dutch  herring  salad,  69. 

Eel  soup,  36. 

Eels  with  mock  cream  sauce, 
76. 

—  (Russian  style),  yy. 
Egg  aurora,  206. 

—  boiled,  245. 

—  cress     and     haricot     bean 

salad,  167. 

—  how  to  poach  an,  211. 

—  turnovers,  205. 
Eggs,  10. 

—  dried,  205,  238. 

—  (poached),  jardiniere,  205. 
with  peas  puree  baked, 

208. 
'  —  poulette,  209. 

—  (scrambled),     with     bread 

sauce,  209. 

Farinaceous  food,  244. 
Farmers'  soup,  25. 
Fat,  clarified,  14. 

—  foods,  7. 

—  etc.,  from  bones,  233. 
Fats,  6,  234. 

Fish,  9. 

—  (baked),  58. 

—  baked  fillet  of  (in  batter),  60. 


Fish  cakes  (baked),  57. 

—  cream  soup,  39. 

—  grilled,  241. 

—  in  batter,  83. 

—  methods  of  cooking,  51. 

—  mock  turtle  soup,  37. 

—  (pan),  58. 

—  pie,  53- 

—  pudding,  241. 

—  sauce,  46. 

—  sausages,  56. 

—  soup,  35. 

—  —  (mock  bouillabaisse),  36. 

—  steamed,  59. 

—  stock,  20. 

—  stuffings,  56. 

Frying    batter    without    egg^ 

234. 
Fuel,  to  save,  239. 

Gelatine,  etc.,  from  bones,  233. 

Ginger  cake,  216. 

— nuts,  216. 

Golden  bream,  73. 

Gravy  (vegetable),  22. 

Grey  mullet,  63. 

Ground     rice     and    coco-nut 

pudding,  184. 
Gurnet     (filleted),     and     rice 

Portugaise,  71. 

Halibut  Portugaise,  62. 
Haricot  beans,  119. 

and  rice  biscuits,  224. 

and  rice  pastry,  182. 

—  bean  pie,  126. 
stew,  125. 

—  paste,  181. 

—  stew,  159. 

Herring  fillets  with  vegetables, 

70. 
— olives  (baked),  67. 

ragout,  65. 

with  rice,  66. 

—  paupiettes   of,  and  tomato 

sauce,  68. 


INDEX 


251 


Herring  salad  (Dutch),  69. 
Herrings  (filleted),  and  rice,  64. 

—  (soused),  65,  68. 
Hot  potato  cake,  218. 

Imitation  bread  sauce,  42. 
Invalid  dishes,  240-245. 
Italian  sauce,  44. 

Jacket  potatoes,  164. 

Kipper  salad,  79. 

Lard,  235. 

Leek  and  potato  soup,  34. 

Leeks  (stoved),  151. 

Lentil  stew,  126. 

Lentils  and  rice  balls,  133. 

—  creamed,  133. 

—  (red),  119. 

Liver  dumplings  and  cabbage 
stew,  104. 

—  (fried),     and     onions     with 

rice  or  polenta,  103. 
Lobster  (creamed),  78. 
Lyonnaise  sauce,  43. 

Macaroni  croquettes  and  peas, 
166. 

—  (home-made),  134. 

—  how  to  cook,  135. 

—  with  tomatoes,  138. 
Mackerel  and  rice,  61. 

—  (soused),  65. 

Maize    and     apple    pudding 
(baked),  198. 

—  and  cheese  rissoles,  124. 

—  and  cheese  savoury,  125. 

—  and  egg  savoury,  210. 

—  and  marmalade  charlotte, 

194. 

—  and  potato  bread,  223. 

—  and  potato  cakes,  219. 

—  batter  pudding,  185. 

—  crumbs,  231. 

—  jam  roll,  189. 


Maize  pancakes,  188. 

—  paste,  182. 

—  roll,  savoury,  109. 

—  sandwich  cake,  217. 

—  (savoury),     and     vegetable 

pudding,  137. 

—  woodcock,  2 ID. 
Margarine,  235. 
Marmalade,  229. 
Marrow  au  gratin,  149. 

—  (baked),  and  egg,  207. 

—  (baked  stuffed),  148. 

—  soup,  31. 

—  (stuffed),  102. 

—  (vegetable),  149. 

—  (vegetable),      and      cereal 

salad,  167. 
Mayonnaise     sauce     without 

eggs,  47. 

without  oil,  48. 

Meat,  10. 

—  and  maize  cutlet,  100. 

—  and  potato  flan,  96. 

—  gravy  (stoved),  23. 

—  loaves     and    stewed    beet- 

root, 105. 

—  methods  of  cooking,  87. 

—  rolls    or  olives   with   peas, 

107. 

—  salad,  109. 

Melted  butter  sauce,  46. 

Mince  meat,  199. 

Minerals,  6,  7. 

Minestroni,  28. 

Mixed  salad,  168. 

Mock  duck  and  apple  sauce, 

108. 
Monkeys,  185. 
Mornay  sauce,  45. 
Mulligatawny  soup,  30. 
Mussels  and  rice,  79. 
Mutton  and  potato  ragout,  104. 

—  broth,  99. 

—  stuffed  breast  of,  with  barley, 

99. 

—  tea,  245. 


252 


INDEX 


Nouilles,  134,  135. 

Nut  and  haricot  pie,  140. 

—  roll,  139. 
Nuts,  II. 

Oaten  savoury,  129. 
Oatmeal  canelons,  128. 

—  pudding  (baked),  129. 

—  sausages,  127. 

with  stock  meat,  128. 

O'Connor  soup,  32. 

Oil,  14,235. 

Omelette  with  dried  eggs,  206. 

Onion  soup,  26. 

Onions,  stuffed,  152. 

Orange  maize  pudding,  194. 

—  pudding,  198. 

Ox  cheek  and  haricot  pie,  loi. 

broth,  245. 

(fried),  107. 

fritters,  107. 

Pan  fish,  58. 

Parsnip  sauce  (sweet),  47. 

Parsnips,  151. 

Paste  for  fruit  tartlets,  179. 

—  haricot,  181, 
Pastry,  175. 
Patties,  95. 

Paupiettes     of     herring    and 

tomato  sauce,  68. 
Pea  bread,  220. 
Pea-pod  soup,  33. 
Peas,  119. 

—  stew,  126. 
Peptonised  foods,  240. 

—  milk,  240. 

Perch,  how  to  cook,  72. 
Pickle  liquid,  to  use  up,  236. 
Picnic  roll,  246. 
Pie   crust  with    ground    rice, 
181. 

with  potato,  181. 

Pie  paste  (without  fat),  180. 

Pilaw,  no. 

Poached  eggs  jardiniere,  205. 


Poached  eggs  with  peas  pur^e 

baked,  208. 
Pocket  lunches,  246. 
Polenta,  121. 

—  with  potatoes,  122. 
Pot-au-feu     made     with     ox 

cheek,  25. 
Potato  and  apple  cheese  cake, 
178. 

—  and        barley         pudding 

(savoury),  136. 

—  and  cheese  pudding,  165. 

—  and  jam  rings,  217. 

—  and  macaroni  pudding,  136. 

—  and    maize    pudding,    192, 

193. 

—  and     tapioca      paste      for 

savoury  pies,  179. 

—  bread,  220. 

—  buns,  221. 

—  cake,  215. 
(hot),  218. 

—  cheese,  230. 

en  casserole,  162. 

—  gateau,  190. 

—  gnocchi,  137. 

and  raisin  flan,  200. 

—  lemon  pudding,  201. 

—  omelet,  161. 

—  pancakes  with  bacon,  97. 

—  pudding,  196. 

—  rock  cakes,  218. 

—  rocks,  191. 

—  rolls,  221. 

—  salad,  165. 

—  sandwich,  215. 

—  scones,  191,  222. 

—  shortbread,  192. 

—  souffle  pudding,  196. 

—  stew  and  bacon,  97. 

—  (stuffed  baked),  162. 

—  timbale  of,  164. 

—  toast,  224. 

—  (tripe  style),  163. 
Potatoes,  bakers',  163. 

—  jacket,  164. 


INDEX 


253 


Potted  rice  and  meat  for  sand- 
wiches, 246. 
Proteid,  5. 
Protein  foods,  6. 
Puddings,  175. 
Pulse  (curried),  134. 

—  food,  method  of   cooking, 

117. 
Pulses,  12. 
Pur^e,  vegetable,  29. 
Purees,  9,  153. 

Quenelles  of  chicken,  242. 

—  of  rabbit,  93. 

Rabbit  and  potato  ragout,  104. 

—  cutlets  of,  93. 

—  (fillets  of),  with  white  sauce, 

en  casserole,  92. 

—  quenelles  of,  93. 

—  soup,  95. 

—  stewed,  94. 
Rarebit,  123. 
Ravioli,  140. 

Red   currant  jelly  (imitation), 

228. 
Red  lentils,  119. 
Rhubarb  and  rice  cakes,  186. 
Rice,  120. 

—  (baked),  and  lentils,  I2i. 

—  balls,  132. 

and  lentils,  133. 

—  savoury,  121. 

with  meat  or  fish,  loi. 

Risotto,  138. 
Robert  sauce,  45. 

Sago  jelly,  195. 
Salmon  (baked),  80 

—  cakes,  82. 

—  (creamed),  78.  ' 

—  flamande,  63. 

—  how  to  use  a  tin  of,  80. 

—  salad,  82. 

—  sandwiches,  83. 

—  scalloped,  81. 


Salsify,  156. 

—  and  barley  soup,  31. 

—  Yorkshire  pudding,  156. 
Sauce  without  fat,  41,  238. 
Sauces — 

bercy,  45. 

bread,  42. 

curry,  41. 

custard,  46. 

devil,  45. 

fish,  46. 

imitation  bread,  42. 

Italian,  44. 

lyonnaise,  43. 

mayonnaise,   without   eggs, 

47; 

—  without  oil,  48. 
melted  butter,  46. 
mornay,  45. 
parsnip  (sweet),  47. 
Robert,  45. 
tomato,  43. 
white,  41. 
Sausage,  fresh  meat,  91. 

—  rolls,  91. 
Sausages,  fish,  56. 

—  made    with   cooked    meat, 

91. 

—  oatmeal,  127,  128. 

—  (vegetable),  with   pulse   or 

nuts,  122. 
Savoury  maize  and  vegetable 

pudding,  137. 
roll,  109. 

—  potato  and  barley  pudding, 

136. 

—  rice    with    meat    or    fish, 

lOI. 

—  spice,  232. 
Scarlet  runners,  158. 
Scones,  drop,  222. 

—  potato,  222. 

Scrambled  eggs    with    bread 

sauce,  209. 
Semolina  cheese  cakes,  193. 
Sheep's  trotters,  106. 


254 


INDEX 


Short  paste,  183. 

Sole  (filleted),  with  cucumber, 

Soups — 
barley  broth,  40. 
cabbage  and  onion,  27. 

—  and  potato,  29. 
celery,  32. 

eel,  36. 
farmers',  25. 
fish,  35. 

—  cream,  39. 

—  (mock        bouillabaisse), 
36. 

—  (mock  turtle),  37. 
leek  and  potato,  34. 
marrow,  31. 
minestroni,  28. 
mulligatawny,  30. 
O'Connor,  32. 
onion,  26. 
pea-pod,  33. 

pot-au-feu,    made    with    ox 
cheek,  25. 

rabbit,  95. 

salsify  and  barley,  31. 

vegetable  puree,  29. 
Soups,  8,  17. 
Spiced  sauce,  232. 
Spinach,  creamed,  157. 
Sprouts,  151. 
Starch  foods,  7. 
Steaming,  240. 
Stock,  8. 
— (bone),  17. 

—  (fish),  20. 

—  meat   and   rice  croquettes, 
no. 

—  (vegetable),  20. 
"  Stoving,"  239. 
Suet  crust,  183. 
Sugar  in  vegetables,  7. 
"Sweating,"  14,  239. 
Sweetbread,  243. 


Sweetbread,  fried,  244. 
Sweets,  175. 

Tapioca  and  potato  paste,  179. 
Timbale  fiUing,  126. 

—  of  potatoes,  164. 
Timbales,  126. 
Tomato  sauce,  43. 
Tripe,  244. 
Turnip  tops,  157. 
Turnips,  155. 
Turn  overs,  219. 

Veal  and  potato  ragout,  104. 

—  tea,  245. 

Vegetable   and  haricot    bean 
pie,  171. 

—  cutlets,  169. 

with  cereals,  171. 

with  ^g%^  170. 

with  nuts,  171. 

with  pulse,  170. 

—  gravy,  22. 

—  marrow,  149. 

and  cereal  salad,  167. 

—  pie,  130. 

—  pur^e,  29. 

—  sauce  or  gravy  (brown),  22. 

—  sausages    with    pulse    and 

nuts,  122. 

—  soup  (clear),  22. 

—  stock,  20. 

Vegetables,  conservative 

method  of  cooking,  145. 

War  Christmas  pudding,  200. 
Water  in  foods,  7. 
White  sauce,  41. 
Whiting  au  gratin,  61. 

—  (baked  filleted),  with  pota- 

toes, 72. 

Yorkshire  pudding  with  fruit, 
186. 


PRINTED   BY   MORRISON    AND   GIBB   LTD.,   EDINBURGH 


"DAILY    MAIL" 
WAR   RECIPES 

BY 

Mrs.    C.    S.    peel 

This  book  is  published  in  compliance  with 
the  demand  of  Readers  of  the  Daily  fEMail 
for  a  Cookery  Book  compiled  from  Recipes 
issued  by  the  Food  Bureau.  The  Recipes 
are  arranged  to  suit  present  conditions. 
Readers  requiring  information  should  apply 
through  the  "  Daily  Mail  Food  Bureau." 

CONTENTS 

Stocks  and  Soups — Sauces,  Salad  Dressings, 

AND  Batters — Fish — Eggs — Some  Dishes  with 

A  Little  Meat — Meatless  Dishes — Puddings 

AND  Pastry — Home-made  Cheese  and  Butter 

Substitutes  —  Some    War    Jams    and    Other 

Preserves. 

Price,  1/6. 


LONDON 
CONSTABLE  £5?  COMPANY  LTD. 

1918 


WAR    RATION 
COOKERY 

(THE  EAT-LESS-MEAT  BOOK) 
By  Mrs.  C.  S.  PEEL 

Crown  8vo,  3/6  net 

{Third  Edition   Revised  to  meet  present  conditions) 

Globe. — "  The  public  has  a  multitude  of  counsellors  eager 
to  teach  it  how  to  walk  circumspectly  amid  the  perils  of  food 
shortage,  but  it  will  accept  the  collection  of  recipes  in  the 
*  Eat-Less-Meat  Book'  as  official,  for  it  is  the  work  of  Mrs. 
C.  S.  Peel,  and  embodies  the  ideals  with  which  she  is 
enlightening  housewives  in  her  lectures  up  and  down  the 
country." 

Daily  Telegraph. — "  Mrs.  Peel  is  universally  recognised 
as  the  soundest  and  most  sensible  authority  upon  middle- 
class  housekeeping  ;  she  knows  her  subject  inside  out,  she 
has  no  fads,  and  she  writes  with  great  vivacity  and  verve. 
She  is  just  the  person  whose  advice  the  small  householder 
needs  at  the  present  time,  and  this  practical  and  business- 
like handbook  is  nothing  less  than  a  public  service  of  the 
highest  quality.  It  ought  to  be  on  every  kitchen  shelf 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  country.  .  .  . 
Indeed,  the  whole  volume  is  invaluable,  and  we  commend 
it  without  reserve  to  every  class  of  the  loyal-hearted  public." 

Land  and  Water. — "  Mrs.  Peel's  book  is  eminently 
practical.  It  puts  in  an  intelligible  way  the  problem  of 
war-ration  housekeeping." 

Spectator. — "The  book  gives  excellent  hints  as  to  the 
cooking  of  our  war-time  rations.  In  addition  to  a  quantity 
of  recipes,  Mrs.  Peel  has  advice  to  give  on  food  values." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


THE  LABOUR  SAVING 
HOUSE 

By   Mrs.  C.  S.   PEEL 

With  numerous  Illustrations 
Second  Edition.     Crown  Svo,  3/6  net 

This  book,  by  the  author  of  "War  Ration  Cookery,'' 
has  come  at  the  right  moment,  since  the  "  Servant 
Problem"  becomes  more  acute.  Mrs.  Peel  believes 
that  "  The  greatest  labour  saving  apparatus  we  possess 
is  the  Brain,"  and  gives  many  examples  to  illustrate  the 
point.  A  few  most  valuable  chapters  deal  with  the 
uses  of  gas  and  electricity  for  saving  labour  and, 
incidentally,  expense. 

Tatler. — "  Mrs.  Peel  talks  some  sound  common  sense 
in  her  most  interesting  and  instructive  book." 

Times. — "A  practical  guide  like  this,  by  a  w^ll-known 
authority  on  domestic  economy,  with  its  numerous 
fully  explained  photographs,  is  sure  to  be  helpful." 

Lady. — ''  Mrs.  Peel's  hints  are  plentiful  and  practical.'' 

Outlook. — "This  book,  marked  as  it  is  by  the 
soundest  common  sense,  is  full  of  invaluable  suggestions 
for  lessening  the  housewife's  labours." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST  ,  W.  i 
17 


THE    HAT   SHOP 

A    NOVEL 

By    Mrs.    C.    S.    PEEL 

Crown  8vo,  6/-  and  1/9  net 

Pall  Mall  Gazette, — "  Mrs.  Peel  is  to  be  sincerely  con- 
gratulated on  her  vivid  picture  of  one  side  of  the  world  of 
fashion  and  of  the  cost  to  those  who  serve  it." 

Daily  Citizen. — "  Mrs.  Peel  has  written  a  most  delightful 
novel.  .  .  .  All  her  people  live  and  have  the  air  of  real  men 
and  women.  It  is  an  ideal  book  for  a  leisure  hour." 
fei  Standard. — "  Out  of  an  atmosphere  of  fur  and  feathers 
— themselves  things  of  blood — the  author  brings  us  to  face 
the  fight  of  life  and  the  last  asylum  of  death." 

Morning  Post. — "The  book  is  interesting  .  .  .  and 
written  with  .  .  .  first-hand  knowledge." 

Sunday  Times. — "  The  bright  and  the  shady  side  of 
feminine  life  in  London  are  both  exhibited  in  '  The  Hat 
Shop.'  Mrs.  Peel's  pages  are  closely  observed  and  con- 
vincingly  drawn  " 

MRS.   BARNET-ROBES 

A    NOVEL 

By    Mrs.    C.    S.    PEEL 

Crown  8vo,  6/- 

Outlook. — "  With  insight  and  tenderness  and  courage, 
Mrs.  Peel  has  written  one  of  the  most  charming  and  at  the 
same  time  most  living  of  stories.  ...  It  is  stamped  with  truth 
and  is  very  beautifully  told." 

Globe. — "  Mrs.  Peel  has  handled  a  prolific  theme  in  a 
masterly  manner." 

Pall  Mall  Gazette. — Mrs.  Peel  has  written  a  worthy  suc- 
cessor to  '  The  Hat  Shop,'  more  imaginative  and  showing 
some  deeper  insight." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


A    iMRS.    JONES 

A    NOVEL 
Bv    Mrs.    C.    S.    PEEL 

Crown  8vo,  6  - 

Daily  Telegraph, — *'  The  description  of  a  Fashion  Paper's  office, 
and  its  Jewish  administration,  is  .  .  .  vivid,  real,  and  humorous. 
The  book  goes  meiTily  forward,  the  interest  of  the  reader  sustained 
to  the  finish." 

Sketch, — "  Oh,  but  Mrs.  Peel  has  the  touch  !  It  is  impossible 
to  help  loving  Mrs.  Jones.  .  .  .  Scarcely  a  woman  will  read  Dot 
without  feeling  her  many  a  time  as  an  expre€sion  of  herself.  .  ,  . 
To  complete  Mrs.  Peel's  triumph  she  has  the  very  nicest  dash  of 
feminine  wit." 

Fuld, — **  Warm  s}Tnpathy  and  a  large  knowledge  .  .  .  carried  by 
clean  ideals,  and  with  the  interest  sustained  from  the  first  to  the  last 
page,  the  story  of  Mrs.  Jones  is  sure  to  give  pleasure  even  to  the 
most  fastidious  readers  of  novels." 

Westminster  Gazette.  —  "  A  perfectly  delightful  book.  Mrs.  iPeel 
has  most  wisely  and  kindly  kept  the  war  out  of  it  ...  it  is  a  rest, 
a  comfort,  and  a  distraction." 

Evenifig  News.  —  "A  slice  of  life.  .  .  .  Human,  tender.  .  .  . 
The  sense  of  humour  is  acute." 

Ti?jus, — *'To  write  about  a  girl  of  to-day  to  whom  nothing  in 
particular  happens  in  such  a  manner  that  the  reader  must  follow 
her  stor)'  attentively  is  as  difficult  as  to  make  a  whiting  appetising  ; 
but  this  feat  Mrs.  C.  S.  Peel  accomplishes  in  '  A  Mrs.  Jones.'  " 

Bystander. — **  An  entertaining  piece  of  work." 

BirmingJiam  Daily  Post.  —  "The  characterisation  is  uniformly 
excellent,  exceedingly  clever,  unusually  s}*mpathetic,  easy  and 
confident  style  .  .  .  quietly  humorous  phrase  .  .  ,  power  carefully 
and  wisely  restrained  in  scenes  of  pathos." 

Englishivoman. — **  Beautifully  told.  An  excellent  and  witty 
stor\'-teller  .  .  .  sounder  in  her  psychology  than  is  usually  the  case." 

Punch. — Humour  .  .  .  character  .  .  .  charm  .  ,  .  The  book 
abounds  in  them  all." 

Outlook. — **  This  intensely  clever  and  human-hearted  story.  .  .  . 
Fresh,  genuine,  so  impeccably  true  to  nature.  A  ver}'  fine  novel 
indeed." 

Country  Life. — "Almost  lovable  creature.  ...  A  very  real 
heroine.  .  .  .  Making  us  ask  ourselves  how  many  such  we  may 
have  known  and  misjudged." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


DAINTY  DISHES  FOR  CAMP  y  HOME. 

By  R.  PiAZZANi.     Crown  8vo,  6d.  net. 

Athenccwn,  —  ''Some  originality  and  variety  characterise  the 
recipes  in  this  little  book.  Soldiers  will  welcome  the  different 
methods  of  cooking  *  bully  beef.'  There  are  other  dishes  besides, 
and  the  camps  will  give  Mr.  Piazzani's  recipes  a  welcome.  The 
book  should  be  equally  useful  in  the  home." 

PATRIOTISM  AND  PLENTY. 

A  Cook  Book  for  War  Time  and  All  Time.    By  the 
Hon.  Mrs.    Lionel   Guest.      Crown  8vo,  paper 
covers,  1/-  net. 
Guardia7t. — *'  Discussed  in  a  manner  altogether  refreshing." 
Athenaum, — **Mrs.   Guest  has  done  useful  work,   and   will   be 
appreciated  by  many  harassed  housewives  and  others." 

SOUP,  OYSTERS,  AND  SURPRISES. 

By  the  Hon.  Mrs.    Lionel  Guest.     Crown  8vo, 
paper  covers,  1/-  net. 

Mrs.  Guest's  little  books  on  War  Time  Cookery  have  obtained 
so  wide  a  popularity  that  she  has  now  added  this  one  on  Soups, 
Oysters,  Mussels,  etc.  In  this  book  will  be  found  recipes  as  original 
as  in  her  former  volumes,  and  as  before  she  embodies  in  it  the  best 
and  simplest  of  English,  Canadian,  and  American  cooking. 

BREAD  AND  FANCY  BREADS. 

By  the  Hon.   Mrs.  Lionel  Guest.     Crown  8vo, 
6d.  net. 

Evem7ig  Standard. — **  '  Guest  books'  are  almost  essential  nowa- 
days if  you  want  to  be  up  to  date  in  your  war  economy  and  war-time 
knowledge  of  practical  affairs." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


FLOURLESS  PUDDINGS 
AND  THEIR  SAUCES 

By  A  COUNTRY  RECTOR'S  WIFE 
6d.  net 

Evening  Standard, — **I  never  would  have  imagined  that  in  the 
world  there  could  be  nearly  lOO  puddings  constructed  without  flour, 
but  *  A  Country  Rector's  Wife'  tells  me  in  her  book  of  recipes  that 
there  are.  Of  course,  some  of  them  are  apple  puddings,  which,  at 
the  present  price  of  fruit,  are  only  food  for  millionaires,  but  she 
gives  a  splendid  collection  of  cornflour,  maize  meal,  and  oatmeal 
puddings,  with  all  sorts  of  odd  and  unexpected  flavourings  to  them. 
I  think  that  supper  in  the  country  rectory  must  be  a  delightful  meal, 
when  maize  and  date  pudding,  oats  pudding  or  lemon  cornflour 
figure  on  the  menu.  " 

Publisher's  Circular. — **  '  Flourless  Puddings  and  their  Sauces,' 
by  A  Country  Rector's  Wife,  tells  its  own  tale  by  its  title,  and  will 
prove  its  value  by  the  eating  of  the  puddings.  Somebody  some  day 
will  pick  up  a  copy  at  a  second-hand  bookstall  and  say,  *  Ah  !  that 
was  published  in  the  third  year  of  the  Great  War,  when  the  Germans 
tried  to  starve  Britain.'  " 

Irish  Independent. — *' About  lOO  recipes  are  given  for  making 
flourless  puddings  and  their  sauces  in  this  useful  booklet.  Puddings 
baked  and  boiled  ;  puddings  to  be  served  hot  and  cold  ;  all  are 
dealt  with,  and  directions  given  that  can  be  easily  followed  by  the 
average  housewife." 

Manchester  Guardian.  — *  *  This  book  has  a  particular  appeal  at 
the  present  time.  It  suggests  that  the  housewife — and  certainly  the 
family — may  get  a  good  deal  of  fun  out  of  these  experiments,  with 
limitations." 

Nursing  Times. — **  'Flourless  Puddings'  is  a  very  useful  book 
at  the  present  time." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  \V.  i 


A   TIMELY   PUBLICATION 

THE 
COW  AND  MILK  BOOK 

BY 

The    Hon.    Mrs.   LIONEL    GUEST 

Crown  8vo,  Paper  Boards,  1/.  net 

Graphic. — "  This  is  a  strong  practical  plea  for  the  proper 
treatment  of  Cattle  so  as  to  ensure  pure  milk.  A  very  handy 
little  book." 

Field. — "  The  book  will  be  exceedingly  useful  to  beginners, 
and  may  be  recommended  especially  to  the  attention  of  the 
new  school  of  Lady  Farmers." 

Manchester  Guardian, — "  Mrs.  Guest's  informing  book." 

Daily  Graphic. — "A  timely  publication.  Indeed,  Mrs. 
Guest  is  so  well  informed  in  her  subject  that  her  book  may 
be  commended  to  Farmers  as  well  as  to  Dairy  Amateurs." 

Lancet — "  A  thoroughly  useful  guide  dealing  with  the  cow 
in  health  and  disease,  the  handling  of  milk,  and  the  making 
of  butter  and  cheese." 

JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


TWO   EXCELLENT   SERIES 

A  Sblection  from 
THE   COUNTRY   HANDBOOKS   SERIES 

Illustrated.     Crown  8vo,  cloth,  3/-  net 

THE  STILL  ROOM.     By  Mr.  Charles  Roundell  and  Harry 

Roberts. 
THE   LITTLE   FARM.     By  "  Home  Counties." 
THE   SMALL   HOLDING.     By  F.  E.  Green. 


A  Selection  from 
HANDBOOKS  of  PRACTICAL  GARDENING  SERIES 

Illustrated.     Crown  8vo,  2/6  net 

THE  BOOK  OF  FRUIT  BOTTLING.  By  Edith  Bradley 
and  May  Crooke. 

THE  BOOK  OF  ASPARAGUS.  With  sections  also  on  Celery, 
Salsify,  Scorzonera,  and  Seakale.  By  Char^les  Ilott,  F.R.  H.S., 
Lecturer  on  Horticulture  to  the  Cornwall  County  Council.  To- 
gether with  a  chapter  on  their  cooking  and  preparation  for  the 
table  by  the  Editor. 

THE  BOOK  OF  THE  GRAPE.  By  H.  W.  Ward,  F.R.H.S., 
for  25  years  Head  Gardener  at  Longford  Castle,  author  of  ' '  My 
Grardener." 

THE  BOOK  OF  THE  APPLE.  By  H.  H.  Thomas,  Assistant 
Editor  of  "The  Garden,"  late  of  the  Royal  Gardens,  Windsor. 
Together  with  chapters  by  the  Editor  on  the  History  and  Cooking 
of  the  Apple,  and  the  Preparation  of  Cider. 

THE  BOOK  OF  VEGETABLES.  By  G.  Wythes,  V.M.H., 
Head  Gardener  to  the  Duke  of  Northumberland.  With  chapters 
by  the  Editor  on  the  History  and  Cookery  of  Vegetables. 

THE  BOOK  OF  THE  STRAWBERRY.  With  chapters  on 
the  Raspberry,  Blackberry,  Loganberry,  W^ineberry,  and  Allied 
Fruits.  By  Edwin  Beckett,  F.R.H.S.,  Head  Gardener  at 
Aldenham  House. 

THE  BOOK  OF  PEARS  AND  PLUMS.  By  the  Rev.  E. 
Bartrum,  D.D. 

THE  BOOK  OF  THE  HONEY  BEE.   By  Charles  Harrison. 

THE  BOOK  OF  GARDEN  PESTS  AND  PLANT  DISEASES. 
By  R.  Hooper  Pearson,  Assistant-Editor  of  "The  Gardener's 
Chronicle."  A  concise  account  of  the  various  insect  pests  and 
fungus  diseases  that  infest  garden  plants,  with  full  instructions  for 
combating  them  in  the  hght  of  modem  knowledge. 


JOHN  LANE,  THE  BODLEY  HEAD,  VIGO  ST.,  W.  i 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

jllilliillillllillllli 

3  9999  06707  006  8 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date 

Due 

Card  in  the  pocket 

indi- 

cates  the 

date 

on  or  before  which 

this 

book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do 

not 

remove   cards   from 

this 

pocket. 

\ 


