ry 


A) 


.T4 


\JQ*~U. 


College  of  Industrial  Arts 

Denton,  Texas 


WAR  BREAD  AND  BREAD  CRUMB 

RECIPES 


Compiled   By 

DEPARTMENT  OF  FOODS 


COLLEGE  BULLETIN        NUMBER  59      JANUARY  1,  1918 


Issued  semi-monthly  by  the  College  of  Industrial  Arts,  Den- 
ton, Texas.     Entered  April  19,  1905  at  Denton,  Texas,  as 
second-class  matter,  under  Act  of  Congress  July  16,  1894. 


DEPARTMENT  OF  EXTENSION 


F.  M.  BRALLEY,  President  of  the  College. 
MISS  LILLIAN  PEEK,  Lcturer  and  Demonstrator. 
MISS  NINA  B.  CRIGLER,  Lecturer  and  Demonstrator. 
MISS  IRENE  M.  DAVIDSON,  Secretary. 


All  requests  for  lectures  and  demonstrations,  and  other 
extension  service  offered  by  the  College,  should  be  addressed 
to  the  Secretary  of  Extension. 


<*# 


4 


o- 

^ 


V 


War  Bread  and  Bread  Crumb  Recipes 


The  bread  recipes  following  the  bread-making  sugges- 
tions in  this  pamphlet  were  used  in  making  war,  or  "emer- 
gency," breads  shown  in  the  College  of  Industrial  Arts 
exhibit  booth,  and  are  specially  recommended  to  the  house- 
wives of  Texas  as  being  thoroughly  tested,  practical  and 
usable  recipes.  The  war  breads  are  the  result  of  the  wheat- 
conservation  campaign,  and  it  is  suggested  that  they  be 
used  once  a  day  at  least  in  the  United  States  in  order  that 
the  more  perishable  grains  may  not  be  overlooked  for  bread 
at  the  expense  of  the  wheat  supply,  so  much  more  adaptable 
for  export  to  our  European  allies. 

Bread  Making 
Good  bread  flour  contains  a  substance  known  as  gluten, 
which  makes  the  framework  of  the  bread.  The  presence  of 
gluten  depends  on  the  kind  of  wheat  from  which  the  flour 
is  made,  and  the  way  it  is  mifle'd.  ;A11  the  wheat  flour  sub- 
stitutes do  not  contain  glute&j  j^enoe  it  is.necessary  in  modi- 
fying a  recipe  to  know  something  of  the  food  composition 
of  the  substitute.  As  a  rule,  one-fourth  wheat  substitute 
and  three-fourths  wheat  flour  is  a  good  proportion  to  use 
and  will  insure  good  results.  If  there  is  an  excess  of  fat, 
as  in  cottonseed  flour  or  cocoanut,  the  shortening  should  be 
omitted.  When  more  than  one-fourth  wheat  substitute  is 
used,  the  texture  is  not  as  good  and  the  bread  is  heavier. 

Quick  Process  Bread. 

More  yeast  is  used  in  the  quick  process  bread.  One 
yeast  cake  to  three  cups  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  liquid  en- 
ables one  to  have  the  finished  loaf  in  three  hours  from  the 
time  the  bread  is  set,  if  the  dough  is  kept  at  a  uniform  and 
slightly  warm  temperature.  The  bread  may  be  made  by 
the  sponge  method  or  the  straight  dough  method.  In  the 
sponge  method  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  are  sifted  together, 
yeast  softened  in  a  portion  of  the  lukewarm  liquid,  then 
the  remainder  of  the  lukewarm  liquid  and  the  melted  fat 
added,  and  sufficient  flour  added  to  make  a  thin  batter.    The 


sponge  is  kept  covered  in  a  warm  place  or  over  a  dish  of 
warm  water,  until  light.  (A  fireless  cooker  is  excellent  for 
keeping  the  temperature  uniform.)  When  the  sponge  is 
light  add  the  rest  of  the  flour  or  enough  so  that  the  dough 
may  be  kneaded  into  an  elastic  mass  which  will  not  stick 
to  the  board.  Shape  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  greased  pan, 
cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk. 
Bake  forty-five  minutes,  gradually  increasing  the  tempera- 
ture for  the  first  fifteen  minutes,  then  slightly  decreasing 
it  for  the  remainder  of  the  time.  After  pressing  the  finger 
on  the  loaf  and  no  impression  is  left  the  bread  is  done.  A 
slight  shrinking  from  the  sides  of  the  pan  is  another  test 
for  a  thoroughly  baked  loaf. 

The  straight  dough  method  differs  from  the  sponge 
method  in  that  all  the  flour  is  added  in  the  first  mixing  to 
make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  be  kneaded.  It  is  then  kneaded 
and  placed  in  a  greased  bowl,  covered  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  doubled  in  bulk  the  loaf  is  handled  lightly, 
shaped  and  put  in  a  greased  tin  to  rise.  When  light  bake 
as  directed  above. 

Slow  Process  Bread 

In  making  slow  process  bread  follow  directions  given 
for  sponge  method  under  Quick  Process  Bread  using  one- 
fourth  yeast  cake  instead  of  one,  and  allowing  the  sponge 
to  rise  over  night  or  an  equal  length  of  time. 

Characteristics  of  a  Properly  Baked  Loaf 

It  has  a  crust  of  from  one-eighth  to  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  is  light  brown  in  color,  the  crust  is  crisp 
and  of  uniform  thickness.  The  loaf  should  be  evenly  risen 
and  of  standard  size  (3x4x8).  The  texture  should  be  fine, 
even  in  grain  (no  large  holes). 


BREAD  RECIPES 

(All  measurements  are  level) 
White  Bread 

1  cup   liquid,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  shortening,  V2  yeast  cake  or  less, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  3  cups  flour. 

Quick  or  slow  process  may  be  used  as  desired,  regulat- 
ing quantity  of  yeast  by  time  given  for  rising. 

PAGE  TWO 


Graham  Bread  (quick) 

2  cups  buttermilk,  1  cup  molasses, 

2  cups  Graham  flour,  2  cups   white   flour, 

1V2    teaspoons    soda,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  Graham  flour  with  soda  and  salt,  add  molasses,  milk 
and  flour. 

Graham  Bread 

1  cup  liquid,  scalded,  2  tablespoons  molasses, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  %    cake  yeast, 

1  tablespoon    butter,  V2  cup  white  flour. 

Mix  and  add  enough  Graham  flour  to  make  a  dough 
stiff  enough  to  knead  (about  21/2  cups).  Raisins  and  nuts 
may  be  added  after  first  rising  if  desired. 


Entire  Wheat  Bread 

1  cup  milk  (scald),  V2    yeast   cake, 

2  tablespoons  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
2  2-3  cups  entire  wheat  flour, 

After  first  rising,  beat,  turn  into  greased  pans,  having 
pans  one-half  full;  let  rise  and  bake.  Never  allow  entire 
wheat  bread  to  double  in  bulk  during  the  last  rising. 


Bran  Bread 

1  cup  skim  milk  (scald),  V2    yeast   cake, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  _  V2   cup  bran, 

2  tablespoons  molasses,  2V2  cups  +  flour. 
1  tablespoon  any  vegetable 

fat, 

Corn  meal  Bread 

1  cup  liquid  (milk  or  water),  V2  yeast  cake, 

1  tablespoon  lard,  2V2   cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  cornmeal. 
1  tablespoon  sugar, 

Cook  the  cornmeal  a  few  minutes  in  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Add  sugar,  salt,  and  lard.  Cool  and  add  remainder 
of  ingredients.  If  more  flour  is  needed,  this  should  be  added 
before  the  bread  is  formed  into  a  loaf. 

There  are  two  methods  for  making  cornmeal  bread: 

1.  Partially   cook   meal   before   adding   it   to   the   dough. 

2.  Add  cornmeal  directly  to  the  dough. 

Second  method  employed  saves  time  but  the  first 
method  makes  a  loaf  of  better  quality. 

PAGE  THREE 


Corn  Bread  II 

1  cup  boiling  water,  Vz  yeast  cake, 

V2  cup  lukewarm  scalded  2  1-3  cups  cornmeal, 

milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  lard,  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Add  the  boling  water  to  the  cornmeal,  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  a  few  minutes,  and  proceed  in  the  manner  given 
in  the  directions  for  bread. 


Old  Glory  Bread  (University  of  Vermont) 

1  cup  rye,  3  cups  whole  wheat  flour, 

8  cups  white  flour,  4  cups  water, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  yeast  cake  or  more  accord- 

3  tablespoons  shortening  ing  to  the  length  of  time 

(may  be  omitted.)  allowed  for  rising. 

Mix  by  the  usual  method.  This  makes  four  medium 

sized  loaves. 


Rolled  Oats  Bread 
1. 

V2  cup  rolled  oats,  %  cup  boiling  water. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  rolled  oats. 

II. 

1  tablespoon  fat,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

%   cup   scalded  milk, 

Combine. 

Combine  I  and  II,  when  cool  add  V2  yeast  cake  softened 
in  2  tablespoons  of  lukewarm  water.  Add  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough  (about  1%  cups) .  Put  in  warm  place 
to  rise,  when  light,  turn  on  bread  board  and  knead  (using 
about  1  cup  flour).  Form  into  loaves;  when  light,  bake 
fifty  minutes.    Two  loaves  weigh  1  pound  2  ounces. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

1  cup  rolled  oats  (uncooked),  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

2  Ms  cups  flour,  m>  teaspoon  salt, 

V2  yeast  cake,  1  cup  liquid  (milk  or  water). 

1  tablespoon    lard, 

Mix  as  usual. 

Any  cooked  cereal  may  be  used  to  substitute  the  rolled 
oats.  But  more  flour  must  be  added  so  that  the  dough  will 
not  be  too  soft  to  knead. 

PAGE  FOUR 


CORNMEAL  AND   WHOLE   WHEAT   BREAD 

(Use  one-fourth  for  one  loaf) 

1  pint  scalded  milk,  1  cup  milk  and  water,  mixed, 

1  pint  warm  water,  1  yeast  cake, 

2  tablespoons  lard  or  Bread  flour   (about  3  cups), 

drippings,  1  cup  cornmeal, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  About  '2Vz  quarts  whole 
2  tablespoons  molasses,  wheat  flour. 

1  teaspoon  salt, 

Combine  the  scalded  milk  and  water  and  add  the  short- 
ening, sugar,  molasses,  and  salt.  Dissolve  the  yeast  cake 
in  the  milk  and  water  mixed,  and  turn  into  the  first  mixture ; 
when  it  is  sufficiently  cooled  add  the  cornmeal  and  bread 
flour  to  make  a  pancake  batter;  then  add  whole  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead.  After  knead- 
ing, divide  in  three  or  four  loaves,  place  in  well-oiled  tins, 
let  rise  till  double  in  bulk,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  If  started  by  seven-thirty  in  the  morning, 
this  will  be  done  by  one  o'clock. 

(Mrs.  Jessie  S.  Hawthorne,  Illinois.) 


Variety  Bread 

3  cups  of  wheat  flour,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

1  cup  cornmeal,  2  cups  water, 

1  cup  rye  flour,  Vz  cup  dark  molasses. 
1  yeast  cake, 

Mix  as  usual. 

Rice  Bread 

1  cup  rice   (cooked),  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

Vz  yeast  cake,  Vz  to  1  cup  rice  water. 
1  tablespoon  lard, 

The  usual  amount  of  liquid  is  lessened  because  there 
is  a  larger  per  cent,  of  water  in  the  cooked  rice.  Mix  as 
usual.     Other  cereals  may  be  substituted  for  rice. 

Potato  Bread 

1  tablespoon    water,  Vz  yeast  cake, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

~Vz  tablespoon  salt,  1  2-3  cups  potatoes. 

1  tablespoon  shortening, 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water ;  mix  as  usual.     If  more  flour 

is  needed,  add  it  during  the  first  kneading.    The  dough  must 

be  very  stiff  because  the  potato  contains  so  much  moisture 

PAGE  FIVE 


that  the  dough  becomes  soft  upon  rising.    Follow  the  ordi- 
nary bread  recipe  for  making  and  baking. 

Note  —  Dasheen  is  made  similar  to  potato  bread. 

Rye  Bread 

1  cup  wheat  flour,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
2-3  cup  rye  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
xk  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat, 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  %  yeast  cake. 

To  liquid  add  fat,  sugar,  dissolved  yeast  cake,  rye 
flour,  salt,  cornstarch,  and  part  of  wheat  flour.  Beat,  place 
in  upper  part  of  double  boiler  or  where  even  temperature 
can  be  maintained.  When  light  add  rest  of  flour,  knead, 
form  into  loaf,  place  in  a  greased  pan.  When  double  in  bulk, 
bake  in  a  slower  oven  than  for  white  bread. 


Barley  Bread 

4  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1  cup  milk, 

2  cups  barley  meal,  2  tablespoons  molasses, 

1  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

V2  yeast  cake, 

Boil  milk  and  water  and  cool;  add  molasses,  salt,  and 
yeast  mixed  with  a  little  lukewarm  water;  stir  in  flour  and 
barley  meal  which  have  been  sifted  together.  Knead  to  a 
soft  dough,  adding  more  flour  if  necessary.  Cover  and  let 
rise  until  the  mixture  is  double  in  bulk.  Knead  the  second 
time,  form  into  loaves,  place  in  well-greased  pans  and  let 
rise  a  second  itme  until  dough  has  very  nearly  doubled  its 
bulk.  Bake  in  hot  oven  from  one-half  to  one  hour,  de- 
pending upon  size  of  loaf. 


Buckwheat 

V2  cup  skim  milk  (scald),  2  tablespoons  molasses, 

%  cup  water,  %  cup  buckwheat  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2Yz  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon   any  vegetable  y2  yeast  cake, 
fat, 

Cottonseed  Flour  Bread 

1  cup  milk  and  water,  V2  yeast  cake, 

%  teaspoon  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  cottonseed  flour. 

No  shortening  is  required.    Mix  as  usual  and  bake. 
page  six 


Milo  Maize  Bread 

1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  lard, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milo  maize, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  Va   yeast  cake. 

2  cups  flour, 

Mix  as  usual. 

Feterita  Bread 

1  cup  water,  Va  yeast  cake, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  flour, 

O       4-~,,^,~~~,»~       1        J*      .L-        ».!__ 


2  teaspoons  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  lard, 

Mix  as  usual. 


1  cup  feterita. 


Cocoanut  Bread 

3  cups  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

Va  cup  cocoanut,  Va  yeast  cake. 

1  cup  liquid, 

Mix  as  usual.    Sugar  and  fat  are  not  necessary  because 
of  both  in  cocoanut. 


Peanut  Butter  Bread 

2  cups  flour,  1  egg, 

1  cup  peanut  butter,  Va  cup  sugar, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  skim  milk. 
1  teaspoon  salt, 

Cut  one  cup  peanut  butter  into  the  first  mixture ;  beat 
one  egg  and  add  to  cup  skim  milk ;  add  this  to  the  other  in- 
gredients. Bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  If 
sour  milk  is  substituted  use  1/2  teaspoon  soda  and  1  cup 
sour  milk. 


Soy  Bean  Bread 

%  cup  liquid,  milk  and  water  Va  yeast  cake, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  cup  soy  bean  puree. 

1  tablespoon  lard, 


Black-Eyed  Peas  Bread 

Va  cup  skim  milk  (scald),  1  tablespoon   any  vegetable 

1  cup  water,  fat, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  pea  pulp, 

2  tablespoons  molasses,  2  cups  +  wheat  flour. 
Va  yeast  cake, 

PAGE  SEVEN 


Green  Peas  Bread 

1  cup  liquid  (milk  and  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

water,  V%  cup  each),  V2   yeast  cake, 

1  tablespoon  lard,  2%    cups   flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  green  pea  pulp. 

Lima  Bean  Bread 

V2  cup  skim  milk  (scald),  1  tablespoon  any  vegetable 
XA  cup  warm  water,  fat, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  V2  yeast  cake, 

2  teaspoons   sugar,  1  cup  bean  pulp, 

2  cups  +  flour. 

Kidney  Bean  Bread 

V2   cup  water,  1  tablespoon  any  vegetable 
x/4  cup  skim  milk  (scald),  fat, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  V2  yeast  cake, 

2  tablespoons  molasses,  1  cup  bean  pulp, 

2  cups  +  flour. 

Kaffir  Corn  Bread 

1  cup  kaffir  meal,  lxk  teaspoons  salt, 

1  cup  water,  V2  yeast  cake, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  Wheat  flour. 
1  tablespoon  shortening, 

Cook  the  sur^ar,  salt,  and  meal  in  water  for  an  hour, 
aid  the  shortening  and  cool.  When  lukewarm  stir  in  yeast 
dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  of  water.  Add  enough  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  onto  board,  knead  and 
follow  previous  directions. 


Oatmeal  and  Cornmeal  Bread 

W2  cups  rolled  oats,  3%  cups  flour, 

\.xk   cups  cornmeal,  2  cups  boiling  water, 

V2  cup  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoons  salt. 
1  yeast  cake, 

Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water.     Pour  the 

boiling  water  over  the  rolled  oats,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  let 

stand  until  lukewarm ;  add  the  dissolved  yeast,  cornmeal,  and 

flour.     Let  rise  until  light.     Beat  well,  let  rise  again,  and 

put  into  pans.    Bake  when  light. 


PAGE  EIGHT 


Bread  Crumb  Recipes 

(All  measurements  are  level) 


Stale  Crumbs 
Stale  crumbs  are  taken  from  the  inside  of  a  stale  loaf. 
They  can  best  be  gotten  by  cutting  the  loaf  in  four  parts, 
leaving  the  crust  on  the  outside  to  hold  to,  and  grating  the 
crumb  with  a  cheese  grater.  For  most  dishes  stale  crumbs 
are  used. 

Dry  Crumbs 

The  odds  and  ends  of  bread  may  be  dried  in  the  warm- 
ing oven  and  then  put  through  a  meat  grinder.  After  they 
are  sifted,  the  fine  ones  are  used  for  crumbing  croquettes, 
thickening  soups,  etc.,  and  the  coarser  ones  for  buttered 
crumbs. 

Buttered  Crumbs 
Melt  the  butter,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  quickly  stir 
in  the  crumbs,  using  one  measure  of  butter  to  eight  of 
crumbs. 

To  Freshen  Stale  Bread 

To  freshen  stale  bread,  dip  it  for  a  second  in  cold  water 
or  cold  milk  and  then  rebake  it  in  rather  a  cool  oven.  One 
of  the  best  ways  to  heat  rolls  is  to  put  them  in  a  paper  bag 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Steamed  bread  is  palatable  and  affords  variety.  The 
section  of  a  loaf  or  single  slices  or  rolls  are  placed  over 
rapidly  boiling  water  and  closely  covered.  This  may  be 
done  in  a  regular  steamer  or  by  putting  a  colander  above 
boiling  water. 

Queen  Victoria's  Favorite  Soup 
1  quart  liquid  in  which  one  chicken  has  been  cooked.  Season 

with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  perhaps  onion. 
3  hard  boiled  yolks  of  egg,  mashed. 

PAGE  NINE 


1-3  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  V2  cup  cold  milk. 
Chicken  meat,  chopped  fine,  from  1  to  2  cups. 

This  cnicken  meat  may  be  obtained  from  what  is  left 
0:1  the  bones  of  the  chicken  after  the  best  meat  is  used  for 
salad.  The  bones  are  boiled  over  in  the  stock  and  the  meat 
is  scraped  off. 

Mix  last  three  ingredients,  add  slowly  to  them  1  pint 
hot  milk  or  cream,  then  add  all  to  the  hot  stock.  Boil  five 
minutes,  taste  for  seasoning  and  thickness.  It  should  be 
quite  thick. 

Bread  Omelet 

4  eggs,  %   teaspoon  salt, 

V2   cup  milk,  Vg  teaspoon  pepper, 

V2  cup  stale  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  butter. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  fifteen  minutes  in  milk,  add  beaten 
yolks  and  seasonings  and  fold  in  whites.  Melt  butter  in 
skillet,  add  mixture.  Cook  first  slowly  over  the  fire  until 
under  part  is  brown,  then  set  in  the  oven  about  five  minutes 
to  set  the  top.    Fold  and  serve  at  once. 

Bread  Muffins 

3  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 

2V2  cups  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  flour,  i/i  teaspoon  salt. 
3    eggs, 

Cover  the  crumbs  with  milk  and  let  soak  fifteen  min- 
utes. Beat  to  a  paste  and  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  flour, 
salt,  baking  powder  and  melted  butter.  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin  pans  in  a  quick 
oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Scalloped  Eggs 

3  "hard  boiled"  eggs,  %  cup  buttered  crumbs. 

1  pint  white  sauce, 

Chop  eggs  fine.    Sprinkle  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking 

dish  with  crumbs,  cover  with  one-half  the  eggs,  eggs  with 

sauce,  and  sauce  with  meat;  repeat.    Cover  with  remaining 

crumbs.     Place  in   oven   on   centre  grate   and  bake   until 

crumbs  are  brown.     Ham  is  the  best  meat  to  use  for  this 

dish.    Chicken,  veal  or  fish  may  be  used. 

Cheese  Fondu 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  xk  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  hot  milk,  Cayenne, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  yolk  of  egg. 
1  cup  grated  cheese, 

PAGE  TEN 


Mix  crumbs  with  hot  milk  and  let  them  soak.  Melt 
the  butter.  Add  the  seasoning  to  the  cheese  and  all  to  the 
milk  and  crumbs,  stir  the  egg  into  part  of  the  mixture,  then 
mix  everything  and  put  in  pan  with  butter.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  it  is  thick  enough  not  to  run  when  poured  over 
crackers  or  toast. 

Cheese  Scallop 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  2  eggs, 

%  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  grated  cheese,  Vs    teaspoon   paprika. 

2  cups  hot  milk, 

Butter  the  crumbs  and  mix  them  with  the  cheese ;  add 
the  hot  milk  to  the  eggs  and  combine  the  two  mixtures. 
Then  add  the  salt  and  paprika.  Pour  the  mixture  in  a 
buttered  dish  and  set  it  in  hot  water  in  the  oven.  Let  it 
cook  until  it  sets. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

1  pint  oysters,  2  cups  stale  crumbs, 

V2  teaspoon  salt,  XA  cup  oyster  liquid, 

pepper,  1  to  2  tablespoon  milk. 
XA  cup  butter, 

Mix  oyster  liquid  and  milk.  In  every  pint  there  are 
twelve  oysters. 

Butter  the  crumbs.  Use  only  two  layers  of  oysters  but 
three  of  crumbs.  First  put  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  the  pan, 
then  a  layer  of  oysters  putting  salt  and  pepper  and  milk 
over  them.  Then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  then  the  oysters, 
salt,  pepper  and  milk  and  lastly  crumbs.  Put  in  oven  about 
half  an  hour  to  allow  it  to  cook  through  and  brown. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

1  pound  can  salmon,  2  cups  stale  crumbs, 

1  egg  beaten,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 

XA  teaspoon  salt,  Vz  cup  milk. 

Mix  the  materials  thoroughly  using  only  milk  enough 
to  stick  it  together.  Then  divide  the  material  and  make  it 
into  little  balls  with  the  hands.  Crumb  these  balls,  egg 
them  and  crumb  again.  They  must  be  stiff  enough  to  hold 
their  shape.  Then  fry  them  in  deep  fat  until  they  are 
brown.  Serve  them  while  hot  with  or  without  a  sauce  made 
as  follows :  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  to  it  3  table- 
spoons flour,  1/4  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  mix  well, 

PAGE  ELEVEN 


then  add  all  the  cold  milk  and  %  cup  salmon  oil.    Stir  con- 
stantly until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

Salmon  Tim  bale  or  Loaf 

1  cup  salmon,  flaked,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

1  rounding  tablespoon  1  cup  stale  crumbs, 
minced  parsley,  V2  teaspoon  salt, 

1-16  teaspoon  pepper,  2  eggs. 

•/4  to1/^  cup  milk, 

Mix  thoroughly,  adding  milk  enough  to  moisten.  Put 
into  buttered  cups  or  one  bowl ;  set  dishes  in  hot  water  in  a 
moderate  oven,  or  on  back  of  stove,  until  food  is  heated 
through.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  white  sauce  to  which 
minced  parsley  is  added  at  last.  Other  fish  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  salmon. 

Scalloped  Fish 

2  cups  white  sauce,  cups  stale  crumbs, 

2  cups  of  flaked  fish,  %  cup  buttered  crumbs. 

1  cup  cooked  rice  or  1% 

In  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  rice  then  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  some  white  sauce,  another  layer  of  rice,  then 
fish  and  white  sauce.  Over  the  top  of  this  put  the  buttered 
crumbs.  Cook  in  moderate  oven  from  twenty  to  thiry  min- 
utes, or  until  hot  and  brown. 

Fish  Stuffing 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  capers  finely 
%  teaspoon  salt,  chopped, 

Vs   teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  pickles  finely 
1  teaspoon  grated  onion,  chopped, 

1  teaspoon  parsley  finely  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
chopped,  xk  cup  melted  butter  (butter- 

-ine  or  any  vegetable  fat). 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter,  melt  that  and 
add  it  last.    This  makes  a  dry  dressing. 

Scalloped  Meat 

2  cups  diced  meat,  Onion  juice  or  parsley, 

3  tablespoons  fat,  2  cups  buttered  crumbs, 
3  tablespoon  flour,  Vs  teaspoon  pepper, 
W2,  cups  milk  or  stock,                     l1/^   teaspoons  salt. 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk 
or  stock.  In  a  buttered  dish  put  a  layer  of  one-third  of  the 
crumbs,  one-half  of  the  sauce,  and  one-half  of  the  meat ;  re- 
peat and  finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven  to  heat  through  and  brown. 

PAGE  TWELVE 


Meat  Loaf 

1  pound  chopped  meat,  1   slice  onion, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  V2   tablespoon  parsley, 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper,  Stock  or  water  to  moisten. 

%  cup  stale  crumbs, 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  form  them  into  a  loaf.  Then 
put  it  into  a  pan  on  slices  of  bacon  and  put  bacon  over  the 
top.  Cook  in  a  moderately  warm  oven  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Baste  with  fat  or  stock  every  ten  minutes.  It 
may  be  served  with  or  without  tomato  sauce. 

Some  Savory  Dressings 

Celery  Dressing 

Remove  the  crust  from  stale  lightbread.  Cut  the  bread 
to  pieces,  and  pour  lukewarm  water  over  five  cupfuls  of  the 
bread,  letting  it  stand  a  few  minutes.  Squeeze  dry  and  toss 
with  a  fork  until  light.  Add  to  this  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  and 
a  cup  of  finely  chopped  or  ground  celery.  Put  in  two  cups 
of  finely  chopped  pecans,  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  half  a 
cup  of  cream.     Blend  together  and  stuff  the  fowl. 

Savory  Dressing 

Soak  dry  bread  in  cold  water  until  soft.  Squeeze  dry 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  minced  celery  or 
celerv  seed.  Chop  one  sour  apple  and  a  half  teacup  of 
raisins  and  add  to  the  mixture ;  then  beat  in  two  eggs.  Put 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  frying  pan  and 
turn  in  the  dressing.  Cook  until  the  right  consistency  and 
stuff  the  fowl  while  the  dressing  is  hot. 

Peanut  Dressing 

Crumble  finely  a  loaf  of  stale  bread ;  season  with  a  heap- 
teaspoon  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  sage  if  liked. 
Add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  shelled  roasted  peanuts  ground 
or  rolled  quite  fine,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a  half 
cup  (or  more)  of  sweet  cream  to  moisten  it  slightly;  blend 
together  and  stuff  the  fowl. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Butter  slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  them  into  cubes  and  put 
a  layer  on  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Pour  over  the  bread 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  canned  tomatoes  or  a  two-inch  layer  of 

PAGE  THIRTEEN 


sliced,  fresh  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  over  this  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Add  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  onions  and  a  layer  of  chopped 
green  peppers,  and  lastly  a  layer  of  buttered  bread  cut  in 
cubes.  Cover  the  dish  and  bake  slowly  one  hour,  uncover 
at  last  to  brown.    Serve  in  baking  dish. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes 

IY2  cups  fine  stale  crumbs,  Va  cup  flour, 

W-2.   cups  scalded  milk,  V2   teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  eggs, 

Add  milk  and  butter  to  crumbs,  and  soak  until  crumbs 
are  soft ;  add  egg  well  beaten,  then  flour  with  which  salt  and 
baking  powder  have  been  mixed.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a 
greased,  hot  griddle.  Cook  on  one  side.  When  puffed,  full 
of  bubbles,  and  cooked  on  edges,  turn,  and  cook  on  other 
side.     Serve  with  butter  or  syrup. 

Hot  Cabinet  Pudding 

V±  cup  currants,  1  cup  raisins, 

V±  teaspoon  nutmeg,  V2  cup  sugar, 

2  cups  stale  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

Vi  teaspoon  salt,  4  cups  hot  milk. 

Butter  a  mold,  using  all  the  butter,  sprinkle  sides  and 
bottom  with  currants.  Lay  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  mold 
in  layers,  with  the  raisins  between  the  layers.  Beat  the 
eggs;  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  then  the  hot  milk. 
Pour  this  mixture  over  the  bread.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  about  one  hour,  and  then  steam  one  hour  —  steam  one- 
half  hour  if  moulded  in  cups.  This  pudding  may  be  baked 
by  placing  the  mold  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Do  not  allow  the  water  in  pan  to  boil.  Serve  with  caramel 
sauce. 

Bread  Plum  Pudding 

2  cups  dry  crumbs,  3  tablespoons  flour, 

1  cup  nut  meats  (peanuts,  1  cup  sugar, 

almonds  or  mixed  nuts),  1-3  cup  butter, 

1  cup  raisins,  1-3  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  Dash  of  nutmeg. 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  raisins.  Then  mix  all  of  the  in- 
gredients except  the  milk  and  butter.  Add  the  milk  and 
lastly  the  melted  butter.  Pack  it  into  a  can  and  steam  it  for 
two  hours  or  surround  the  can  with  boiling  water  and  keep 
the  water  boiling  for  two  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

PAGE  FOURTEEN 


Hydrox 

3  eggs,  3  ounces  chocolate  (3  sqs.), 

V±  cup  butter,  1  cup  fine  dry  bread  crumbs, 

V%  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  flour. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  eggs  well 
beaten  and  chocolate  melted.  Beat  well  and  add  the  bread 
crumbs  and  flour.  Spread  mixture  one-fourth  inch  thick 
in  shallow  pans.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Shape  with  a  biscuit 
cutter  and  put  togther  in  pairs  with  boiled  frosting.  The 
tops  may  be  frosted  also,  if  desired. 

Steamed  Fig  Pudding 

V2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 

%  pound  figs,  Y±  pound  suet, 

2  eggs  (or  none),  V2  cup  milk, 

Rind  of  half  a  lemon,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

2  1-3  cup  stale  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Chop  the  figs,  chop  the  suet,  adding  a  little  flour  from 
time  to  time  so  it  will  not  stick  together.  Chop  it  until  it 
will  go  through  the  colander.  Then  mix  the  fruit  and  suet. 
Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk,  add  the  eggs  and  seasonings, 
then  mix  everything.  If  necessary  water  must  be  added  to 
moisten  it.  Put  it  in  greased  baking  powder  cans.  Steam 
them  or  surround  them  with  boiling  water  and  keep  them 
there  from  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours,  the  longer  the 
better.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Plain  Bread  Pudding 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  cups  milk,  xk  teaspoon  salt. 
1  egg  or  2  yolks, 

Soak  crumbs  and  milk  one  hour,  or  until  crumbs  are 

soft  —  if  milk  is  hot  it  will  take  a  shorter  time.    Beat  egg 

with  sugar  and  salt,  and  to  it  add  the  soaked  crumbs.    Put 

in  a  buttered  dish,  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  thirty  or 

forty  minutes,  or  until  a  knife  comes  clean  from  the  middle 

of  the  pudding.     Serve  with  chocolate  sauce  or  frosting 

sauce. 

Lemon  Bread  Pudding 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  cups  milk,  Vs   teaspoon  salt, 
2  egg  yolks,                                          1  rind  of  lemon. 

Soak  erumbs  and  milk  one  hour  or  until  crumbs  are 
soft  —  if  milk  is  hot  it  will  take  shorter  time.  Beat  egg  with 

PAGE  FIFTEEN 


sugar  and  salt,  and  to  it  add  the  soaked  crumbs.  Put  in  a 
buttered  dish  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  thirty  or  forty- 
minutes,  or  until  a  knife  come  clean  from  the  middle  of  the 
pudding.    Serve  with  frosting  lemon  sauce. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  1-3  cup  sugar, 

2  cups  hot  milk,  Vs  teaspoon  salt, 
1  egg  or  2  yolks,                                 1  oz.  chocolate. 

Put  chocolate,  crumbs  and  milk  in  pan  over  hot  water; 
heat  until  chocolate  is  melted  and  crumbs  soft.  Beat  egg 
with  sugar  and  salt,  and  add  the  soaked  crumbs.  Put  in  a 
buttered  dish,  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  thirty  or  forty 
minutes,  or  until  a  knife  comes  clean  from  the  middle  of  the 
pudding.    Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Brown  Bread  Pudding 

1  cup  stale  crust  crumbs,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  milk,  V2  cup  raisins, 

V2  cup  molasses,  xk  teaspoon  spices. 

Soak  crumbs  and  milk  one  hour  or  until  crumbs  are 
soft  —  if  milk  is  hot  it  will  take  shorter  time.  Mix  every- 
thing. Put  in  a  buttered  dish,  into  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake  thirty  or  forty  minutes,  or  until  a  knife  comes  clean 
from  the  middle  of  the  pudding.  Serve  with  brown  sugar 
or  caramel  sauce. 

Brown  Betty 

1  cup  stale  crumbs,  %  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  chopped  tart  apples,  1-16  teaspoon  cloves, 
V2  cup  brown  sugar,  V2  tablespoon  butter. 

Butter  a  dish,  put  in  layers  of  crumbs,  apples,  sugar, 

butter  and  spice;  repeat;  put  crumbs  on  top.     Cover  dish 

and  cook  in  moderate  oven  three-fourths  hour;  uncover  to 

brown.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or  milk  sweetened  and 

flavored. 


Brown  Susan 

Line  buttered  mould  with  pieces  of  bread  slightly  but- 
tered. Fill  cavity  with  sliced  apple,  butter,  sugar,  and  lemon 
rind;  cover  with  buttered  bread.  Bake  slowly  and  heat  at 
last  to  brown.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

PAGE    SIXTEEN 


PUDDING  SAUCES 
Lemon  Sauce 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1   tablespoon  butter, 

V2   cup  sugar,  1  to  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour, 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
clear,  add  butter  and  lemon  juice  just  before  taking  off. 

Vanilla  Sauce 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
V2  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  flour, 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water,  cook  until  clear. 
Add  butter  just  before  taking  off  and  vanilla  before  serving. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

1  cup  boiling  water,  V2  teaspoon  vanilla, 
V2   cup  sugar,                                         1  oz.  chocolate. 

2  tablespoons  flour, 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water  and  chocolate, 
stir  and  cook  until  it  boils  and  thickens  so  the  chocolate  will 
not  separate.    Add  vanilla  just  before  serving. 

Brown  Sugar  Sauce 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
%  cup  brown  sugar,                            2  teaspoons  lemon, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  Grated  nutmeg. 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water,  cook  until  clear, 
add  butter,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  just  before  taking  off. 

Caramel  Sauce 

V2  cup  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

V2  cup  caramel,  %   teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  tablespoons  sugar, 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water  and  caramel, 
cook  until  clear,  add  butter  just  before  taking  off  and  vanilla 
before  serving. 

Frosting  Sauce 

1  to  2  whites  of  eggs,  2-3  cup  fruit, 

2-3  cup  powdered  sugar,  Lemon  juice. 

Put  unbeaten  white  of  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  fruit  and 
sugar  gradually,  using  the  egg  beater,  and  beat  until  smooth 
and  thick.    Lemon  juice  is  added  to  bring  out  the  flavor  of 

PAGE  SEVENTEEN 


fruit,  and  less  sugar  is  needed  if  fruit  is  sweetened.    The 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  may  be  used  without  fruit. 

Hard  Sauce 

1-3  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2-3  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  first,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
flavors.     Arrange  in  small  dish  and  keep  cool  till  served. 


□     □ 


PAGE  EIGHTEEN 


INDEX 


Page 
WAR  BREADS 

White  Bread     ......  2 

Graham  Bread 3 

Entire  Wheat  Bread  ....  3 

Bran  Bread 3 

Cornmeal   Bread 3 

Cornmeal  Bread  II  ...     .  4 

Old  Glory  Bread 4 

Rolled   Oats   Bread   ....  4 

Oatmeal  Bread 4 

Whole  Wheat  and  Cornmeal 

Bread 5 

Variety  Bread 5 

Rice  Bread 5 

Potato   Bread   ......  5 

Rye    Bread 6 

Barley   Bread 6 

Buckwheat  Bread 6 

Cottonseed  Bread 6 

Milo  Maize  Bread 7 

Feterita  Bread 7 

Cocoanut    Bread -  7 

Peanut  Bread 7 

Soy  Bean  Bread 7 

Black-Eyed  Pea  Bread  ...  7 

Green  Pea  (English)  Bread   .  8 

Lima  Bean  Bread     ....  8 

Kidney  Bean  Bread    ....  8 

Kaffir  Corn  Bread    ....  8 

Oatmeal  and  Cornmeal  Bread  8 

BREAD  CRUMB  RECIPES 

Stale  Crumbs 9 

Dry  Crumbs 9 

Buttered  Crumbs 9 

To  Freshen  Stale  Bread      .     .  9 


Page 
Queen     Victoria's      Favorite 

Soup 9 

Bread  Omelette 10 

Bread  Muffins 10 

Scalloped  Eggs 10 

Cheese  Fondu 10 

Cheese    Scallop 11 

Scalloped   Oysters     ....  11 

Salmon  Croquettes    .     .     .     .  11 

Salmon  Timbale  (or  loaf)  .     .  12 

Scalloped  Fish 12 

Fish  Stuffing 12 

Scalloped  Meat 12 

Meat  Loaf 13 

Some   Savory   Dressings    .     .  13 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  ....  13 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes     ...  14 

Hot  Cabinet  Pudding     ...  14 

Bread  Plum  Pudding     ...  14 

Hydrox 15 

Steamed  Fig  Pudding    ...  15 

Plain  Bread  Pudding     ...  15 

Lemon  Bread  Pudding    ...  15 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding  .     .  16 

Brown  Bread  Pudding  ...  16 

Brown  Betty 16 

Brown  Susan 16 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

Lemon  Sauce 17 

Vanilla  Sauce 17 

Chocolate  Sauce 17 

Brown  Sugar  Sauce  ....  17 

Caramel    Sauce 17 

Frosting   Sauce 17 

Hard  Sauce 18 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  636  567  A 


Conservation  Resources 
Lig-Free®  Type  I 
Ph  8.5,  Buffered 


\ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014 


636  567  P  ^ 


