Class  TjJLLS- 
Book  J39  6 


CoipghtN0./?^ 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


JL,  %£.    JoJkju^l.  If**  IcJO^jLl 


I    XlfD 


Copyright  1920 

MRS.  WALTER  D.  BUSH 

Wilmington,  Delaware 


0)  CI.  A  6  0  4  3  2  6 


NOV  24  1820 


FORE  WORD 

To  Marion  Harland  and  her  "Common  Sense  Series" 
I  owe  my  first  education  in  cookery.  Later,  her  "Complete 
Cook  Book"  and  Miss  Farmar's  "Boston  Cooking  School 
Book"  have  furnished  me  with  many  of  the  best  recipes  in 
this  book.  I  am  also  indebted  to  Linda  Hull  Lamed  and  her 
"Hostess  of  Today"  for  what  she  calls  "out  of  the  ordinary" 
recipes  and  to  many  good  friends  who  have  passed  along  that 
which  they  have  found  good.  To  these  I  am  indebted  for  the 
suggestions  that  I  should  do  the  same.  Every  recipe  contained 
herein,  has  been  tested  and  used  for  years,  so  that  the  book 
goes  forth  with  the  hope  that  it  will  be  a  real  help  and  de- 
pendence, especially  to  the  young  housekeeper.  Study  the 
first  chapter;  it  makes  the  rest  more  easily  comprehended  and 
on  the  last  pages  will  be  found  necessary  information  con- 
nected with  materials  and  articles  recommended  in  the  recipes. 

—R.  G.  T.  B. 


CHAPTER  I. 

The  Stove. 

In  making  a  fresh  fire,  avoid  smoke  by  putting  the  coal 
on  top  of  kindling  before  lighting.  Have  plenty  of  paper  well 
twisted  up  to  keep  it  burning  longer  and  lay  the  wood  so  that 
there  will  be  a  draught  through  it. 

Do  not  have  fire  box  too  full.  It  is  the  heated  air  be- 
tween the  fire  and  your  stove  lids  that  does  the  cooking. 

When  using  a  fire  constantly,  replenish  frequently  with 
small  quantities  of  coal,  and  keep  the  lower  draughts  closed. 
Red  hot  coal  has  parted  with  much  of  its  heat. 

Clinkers  in  the  coal  form  on  account  of  forced  draughts. 
From  the  same  cause,  ashes  accumulate.  To  save  yourself 
from  these  inconveniences,  keep  draughts  closed  when  you 
have  a  good  fire.  To  keep  fire  over  night,  remove  ashes,  put 
on  coal  to  fill  fire  box,  open  slide  at  left  hand  side  of  fire  box 
and  remove  back  lids  part  way.  This  allows  a  draught  over 
the  coal,  which  prevents  combustion.  Close  damper  in  pipe* 
If  gas  escapes,  from  a  stove  arranged  in  this  manner,  it  is 
because  of  pieces  of  coal  on  top  of  oven,  which  should  not  be 
allowed  to  remain. 

The  Oven.     Coal  Range. 

Keep  oven  clean  inside  and  out.  An  accumulation  of 
dust  and  ashes,  either  on  top  or  underneath  the  oven,  inter- 
feres with  the  heating  of  it,  by  stopping  the  free  circulation 
of  the  hot  air. 

Temperature. 

The  hottest  part  of  an  oven  is  at  the  top  and  far  back. 
If  you  have  not  a  thermometer  in  your  oven,  determine  the 
temperature  as  nearly  as  possible,  by  the  following  tests. 
Very  hot  oven,  hold  your  hand  in  the  oven  while  you  count 
8  slowly.  Hot  oven,  hold  your  hand  in  the  oven  while  you 
count  12  slowly.  Moderate  oven,  hold  your  hand  in  the  oven 
while  you  count  20  slowly. 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


Baking. 

Bake  bread  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  first;  when  risen 
and  two-thirds  baked,  finish  on  rack  to  brown. 

Bake  loaf  cake  the  same  way. 

Bake  layer  cakes  on  rack. 

All  doughs  and  batters  made  with  yeast,  require  moderate 
oven;  doughs  and  batters  made  with  baking  powder,  require 
hot  oven;  pastry  requires  hot  oven.  Keep  it  near  center  of 
oven   when   possible. 

The  Gas  Oven. 

For  a  hot  oven  let  both  burners  burn  full  flame  for  10 
minutes  to  heat  oven,  and  turn  down  half  way  when  the  articles 
to  be  roasted,  baked,  or  broiled,  are  put  in. 

For  a  moderate  oven,  heat  with  both  burners  5  minutes 
and  reduce  flame.  This  is  the  proper  oven  for  bread  and  loaf 
cake.  The  heat  may  be  increased  or  decreased  according  to 
directions  given  for  baking.  Neither  bread  nor  cake  should 
begin  to  brown  the  first  period,  which  in  bread  and  loaf  cake 
is  15  minutes,  in  layer  cake  5  minutes. 

Bake  bread  on  middle  rack  for  45  minutes  if  loaves  are 
not  very  large;  when  bread  is  well  browned  and  shrinks  from 
the  side  of  the  pan,  it  is  done. 

Bake  loaf  cake  on  middle  rack  and  layer  cake  on  the  one 
above.  It  will  be  prudent  to  use  asbestos  mats  under  loaf 
oake  to  avoid  burning,  especially  in  the  case  of  gingerbread. 

Bake  rolls  and  muffins  on  rack  above  the  middle  one;  to 
brown  puddings,  etc.,  put  them  under  the  oven  light  for  a 
few  moments. 

As  racks  may  vary  in  different  gas  stoves,  observe  the 
following   measurements : 

Middle  rack  —4  inches  from  floor  of  oven. 

Upper  rack— 7  inches  from  floor  of  oven. 

Top  rack— 3  inches  from  top  of  oven. 

These  measures  will  vary  slightly,  but  are  near  enough 
to  serve  as  a  guide. 


CHAPTER     I. 


Roasting   Meat. 

Have  oven  hot,  put  meat  in  hottest  part  until  well  seared, 
then  remove  into  cooler  part  to  finish  cooking. 

To  keep  oven  from  rusting,  leave  door  open  after  using, 
until  moisture  is  dried  out.  Use  squares  of  newspaper  for 
rubbing  off  spots  or  material  spilled  upon  stove  or  in  oven; 
keep  them  strung  upon  a  string  hanging  in  a  convenient  place. 

Wipe  oven  occasionally  with  a  cloth  dipped  lightly  in 
grease,  or  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  wrapped  around  a  piece  of 
fat.    Use  also  on  the  gas  range  instead  of  stove  blacking. 

Wipe  gas  range  carefully  after  using,  and  never  leave 
any  dampness  or  moisture  on  it.  If  kept  dry  and  clean  with 
occasional  greasing  to  prevent  rust,  a  gas  stove  will  last  for 
years  without  needing  repairs. 

Methods  of  Cooking. 

Boiling  is  cooking  in  boiling  water  in  sufficient  quantity 
to  cover.  Water  boils  at  212  degrees  F.  and  water  boiling 
rapidly  is  the  same  temperature  as  water  boiling  slowly;  but 
more  heat  escapes  when  boiling  is  rapid. 

Simmering  is  cooking  in  water  at  a  temperature  of  185 
degrees  F.,  just  below  boiling  point.  This  method  will  render 
the  toughest  meat  tender. 

Stewing  is  cooking  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  at  a  low 
temperature.  The  casserole  and  fireless  cooker  stew  the  food 
cooked  in  them.  It  is  the  most  economical  method  of  cook- 
ing, as  all  nutriment  is  retained  and  the  fibre  softened. 

Broiling  is  cooking  over  a  clear  fire- in  a  gridiron. 

Pan  broiling  is  cooking  in  a  pan  without  grease.  For 
successful  pan  broiling,  two  things  are  essential.  A  very  hot 
pan,  and  frequent  turning  of  the  meat  to  keep  juices  in  the 
centre  of  it. 

Baking  is  cooking  in  an  oven,  and  while  practically 
baked  meats  are  not  roasted,  the  terms  are  used  interchange- 
ably. Roasting  cannot  be  done  except  on  a  spit  in  front  of 
an  open  fire;  as  the  range  has  taken  the  place  of  the  old 
fashioned  fire  place,  baking  takes  the  place  of  roasting  with 
results  much  the  same. 


10  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Frying  is  cooking  in  fat  deep  enough  to  cover  the  article, 
at  a  temperature  high  enough  to  harden,  at  once,  outside  sur- 
face and  thus  prevent  entrance  of  grease. 

Testing  fat  for  frying.  When  fat  is  hot  enough  to  smoke, 
drop  in  a  small  piece  of  bread;  if  it  browns  in  40  seconds  it  is 
the  right  temperature  for  cooked  food.  For  uncooked  food, 
it  should  brown  in  60  seconds.  One  may  determine  the 
length  of  time,  by  counting  40  slowly  for  the  one,  and  60 
slowly  for  the  other. 

Once  acquired,  the  art  of  frying  properly  becomes  a 
habit,  so  I  urge  upon  my  readers  and  pupils  the  careful  study 
of  these  rules  and  directions: 

1.  Have  fat  of  proper  depth  and  at  correct  temperature 
before  starting  to  fry. 

2.  Remember  that  temperature  must  be  lower  for  raw 
material,  so  that  it  may  cook  through  before  hardening  too 
much  on  the  surface. 

3.  Too  much  must  not  be  put  into  the  fat  at  once.  The 
temperature  of  the  fat  lowers  enough  to  spoil  the  frying,  the 
hot  grease  enters  the  croquette  or  cruller,  increases  in  heat 
and  bursts  it. 

4.  Drain  all  fried  food  on  absorbent  paper  to  remove 
any  trace  of  grease. 

5.  All  food,  egged  and  crumbed,  will  fry  better,  if  chilled 
for  2  hours  after  dipping  in  crumbs,  and  before  frying. 

6.  The  cheapest  frying  material  is  a  combination  of  beef 
suet,  rendered,  and  Crisco.  Crisco  is  a  vegetable  fat  and  therefore 
will  not  absorb  and  hold  odors  from  articles  cooked  in  it.  Also 
it  needs  no  clarifying  and  may  be  used  over  even  after  fish  has 
been  cooked  in  it,  which  is  not  possible  where  lard  (animal  fat) 
has  been  used.  After  experimenting  with  other  fats,  both 
vegetable  and  animal,  I  recommend  Crisco  as  the  most  eco- 
nomical and  satisfactory  frying  medium  of  which  I^have  any 
knowledge. 

To  render  suet,  skin  it  and  put  through  the  meat  chopper, 
or  chop  fine  with  a  knife.  Cook  it  in  a  double  boiler  until  it 
is  all  melted.  Strain  into  a  kettle.  One  pound  of  suet  will 
make  enough  fat  to  last  a  long  while,  and  it  keeps  well. 


CHAPTER     I  11 


Clarify  the  fat  after  each  frying,  if  it  needs  it,  by  frying 
in  it  4  slices  of  potato,  cut  %  inch  thick.  When  the  potato 
is  brown,  it  will  have  absorbed  any  odors  and  most  of  the 
sediment.  Strain  through  double  cheese  cloth.  Crisco 
does  not  absorb  odors  and  consequently  can  be  used  over 
and  over  again  without  clarifying.  Suet  comes  next,  and 
needs  clarifying  only  occasionally,  while  lard  and  drippings 
cannot  be  used  for  fish  without  retaining  the  odor. 

Sauteing  is  frying  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  This  is  the 
method  of  frying  which  has  raised  the  protest  against  the 
frying  pan.  Food  properly  fried  is  quite  easy  of  digestion, 
but  when  sauted,  it  is  liable  to  absorb  the  grease  and  so  cause 
indigestion.  Sauteing  should  be  carefully  done  and  the  food 
should  have  no  appearance  of  grease  upon  it. 

Braising  is  baking  meat  in  a  double  pan,  the  cover  of 
which  prevents  the  escape  of  steam.  By  this  method  tough 
meat  is  made  tender,  and  the  most  tasteless  cut  absorbs  the 
flavor  of  vegetables  and  herbs  cooked  with  it.  The  steam  con- 
denses on  the  lid  and  drops  back  upon  the  meat  basting  it 
constantly.  Braising  requires  long  slow  cooking  and  at  no 
time  should  the  water  in  the  pan  be  allowed  to  boil. 

Egg  and  crumb,  means  to  dip  into  egg  slightly  beaten, 
diluted  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water  to  each  egg  and 
seasoned  wiih  salt  and  pepper,  then  roll  in  fine  dry  crumbs 
until  well  coated  with  them. 

Crumb,  egg  and  crumb  means  to  dip  in  crumbs  first, 
then  in  egg  and  crumbs  again. 

Dripping  is  any  good  fat  drained  from  the  pan  after 
roasting  meat.  It  should  always  be  strained.  To  this  may 
be  added  from  time  to  time  any  quantity  of  fat,  no  matter 
how  small,  left  after  frying.  Keep  one  empty  Crisco  can  for 
the  fat  used  for  deep  fat  frying,  it  is  a  most  economical  method 
inasmuch  as  the  fat  may  be  used  over  and  over  again;  keep 
another  one  for  dripping. 

Use  soft  absorbent  paper  for  draining  any  food  fried  in 
deep  fat. 

Buttered  crumbs  are  fresh  crumbs  mixed  with  hot 
melted  butter,  and  used  to  cover  scallops  and  puddings.     An 


12  WHATANDHOW 


improvement  over  the  old  way  of  dotting  the  tops  of  these 
dishes  with  bits  of  butter. 

Au  gratin  means  covered  with  crumbs  and  browned. 

Shortening  is  a  term  used  to  designate  any  kind  of  fat, 
which  may  be  lard,  Crisco,  dripping,  or  butter,  mixed  with 
flour  for  biscuits  and  pastry. 

Note  the  difference  between  melted  butter  and  butter 
melted.  A  teaspoonful  of  the  latter  will  make  three  teaspoons 
of  the  former. 

Recipes  calling  for  eggs  beaten  light,  mean  without  sepa- 
rating, if  intended  to  be  beaten  separately  it  will  be  so  stated. 

Peppers  used  in  these  recipes  mean  sweet  peppers. 

To  mill  means  to  beat  vigorously  with  egg  beater  or 
wire  spoon. 

To  marinate  means  to  allow  meat  or  vegetables  to  lay 
in  a  bath  of  oil  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  soften  the  fibre 
of  the  meat,  or  flavor  the  vegetables.  Use  three  times  as 
much  oil  as  vinegar,  or  the  juice  of  two  large  lemons  to  three 
tablespoons  oil.    Wipe  meat  but  do  not  wash. 

A  dash  of  pepper  means  one  shake  from  the  perforated 
top   of   pepper   box. 

A  dash  of  nutmeg  means  two  scrapes  of  the  nutmeg  on 
the  grater. 

To  caramelize  means  to  melt  sugar  over  a  moderate  fire, 
and  allow  it  to  brown,  but  not  to  burn. 

To  fold  in  means  to  bring  to  the  surface  from  under- 
neath and  put  over  the  cream  or  eggs  on  top,  thus  folding 
the  batter  or  custard  over  the  egg  or  cream  until  it  is  mixed 
without  beating. 

Onion  juice  is  extracted  by  pressing  the  flat  surface  of  a 
cut  onion  against  a  grater  with  a  rotary  motion.  To  chop  a 
small  quantity  of  onion,  peel  and  cut  off  a  splice  from  the  end. 
Holding  in  the  left  hand,  cut  the  onion  across  with  a  very  sharp 
knife  in  lines  close  together.  Cross  these  lines  again  with 
similar  ones;  then  cut  off  a  very  thin  slice  or  more  if  desired. 

To  dredge  means  to  cover  with  flour,  using  a  dredge  box 
with  perforated  lid. 


CHAPTER     I.  13 


Dry  crumbs  means  crumbs  obtained  by  drying  pieces 
of  crusts  and  stale  bread  in  the  oven,  and  grinding  them  fine 
in  the  meat  chopper.  Sift  through  wire  sieve,  and  put  away 
in  separate  jars,  the  finer  ones  for  croquettes,  cutlets,  etc., 
the  coarser  for  baked  scallops  or  puddings. 

Fresh  crumbs  are  made  from  stale  bread  not  dried  in 
oven.  They  should  be  rubbed  through  a  colander  in  order 
to  have  them  as  fine  as  possible. 

Basting  means  to  take  up  the  liquid  with  a  spoon  from 
the  pan  containing  roasting  meat  and  pour  it  over  the  meat 
to  keep  it  from  being  too  dry.  It  is  necessary  to  use  hot  water 
at  first  until  the  fat  melts  and  flows  into  the  pan. 

To  Shape  Croquettes. 

Use  a  small  bread  board.  Drop  about  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  mixture  on  to  the  board  and  with  a  broad  knife,  roll 
it  back  and  forth  until  of  proper  shape,  flatten  the  ends  and 
still  using  the  knife,  roll  the  cylinder  through  the  crumbs 
which  should  also  be  upon  the  board.  Have  on  a  plate  an 
egg  slightly  beaten  with  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  and 
seasoned  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  With  the  knife,  roll  the 
croquette  from  the  board  to  the  plate,  through  the  egg  to 
the  board  again  and  once  more  through  the  crumb,  being 
careful  that  every  spot  of  the  croquette  is  covered,  including 
the  ends. 

Cutlets  are  flat  croquettes,  smaller  at  one  end  than  the 
other.  They  may  be  made  on  the  board  as  directed  for  cro- 
quettes, and  patted  lightly  into  shape. 

Flour  that  is  cheap  in  price,  is  not  cheap  in  reality;  it  al- 
ways requires  more  of  it  to  make  the  same  quantity  of  bread. 

If  a  loaf  of  bread  or  cake  breaks  on  top  while  baking, 
either  the  heat  is  too  intense  or  too  much  flour  has  been  used. 

Layer  cake  batter  should  not  be  as  stiff  as  a  loaf  cake 
batter. 

Too  much  baking  powder  will  cause  a  batter  to  be  coarse 
grained. 

A  batter  is  a  mixture  that  can  be  beaten. 

A  sponge  is  an  yeast  mixture  than  can  be  beaten. 


14  WHATANDHOW 


A  dough  is  a  mixture  too  stiff  to  be  stirred  with  a  spoon. 

Bread  dough  is  light  when  it  has  doubled  its  bulk;  the 
same  applies  to  rolls  and  rusks. 

A  sponge  is  light  when  it  is  covered  over  with  bubbles 
of  air,  and  has  increased  to  twice  the  original  quantity. 

Egg  yolks  are  light,  when  thick  and  pale  lemon  color. 

Egg  whites  are  light,  when  they  fly  from  the  beater,  and 
will  not  leave  the  bowl  if  it  is  turned  upside  down. 

If  bread  dough  becomes  light  at  an  inconvenient  time 
for  baking,  it  may  be  "cut  down"  by  turning  the  handle  of 
the  bread  mixer,  or  with  a  knife  if  it  is  in  a  bowl,  and  set  aside 
to  rise  again.    This  will  prevent  its  turning  sour. 

When  rolls  are  light,  they  may  be  kept  for  hours  with- 
out baking,  if  put  into  a  refrigerator  or  very  cold  place. 

To  heat  over  stale  rolls,  take  each  one  on  a  fork  and  dip 
into  hot  water  and  out  again  as  quickly  as  possible;  put  into 
moderate  oven  until  hot  through. 

Bread  and  rolls  made  with  potatoes  will  keep  moist  and 
fresh  several  days. 

Beat  eggs  in  a  cool  place,  and  do  not  beat  them  until  you 
are  ready  to  use  them,  as  they  "go  back"  if  allowed  to  stand. 

When  creaming  butter  and  sugar,  a  silver  fork  is  the 
best  instrument  to  use,  or  a  wooden  spoon  with  slits  in  it. 

Russia  iron  baking  sheets  if  well  waxed  will  not  need 
greasing.  The  waJx  should  be  rubbed  over  them  while  hot, 
and  will  not  need  renewing  for  a  long  time. 

If  fruit  be  added  to  batter  before  the  flour  is  put  in  and 
the  batter  thoroughly  beaten,  it  will  be  well  distributed 
through  the  cake  or  pudding. 

Mould  and  chill  means  to  put  into  a  mould  rinsed  in  cold 
water,  cool,  and  set  away  in  cold  place  to  harden. 

Bottle  and  seal  means  to  fill  bottle,  cork  tightly,  cut  off 
cork  level  with  the  bottle,  and  dip  into  melted  sealing  wax  or 
paraffine  to  make  it  air  tight. 

Ramekins  are  small  dishes,  each  intended  for  one  per- 
son; used  for  scalloped  and  au  gratih  preparations,  eggs,  etc. 

Make  jelly  bag  of  double  cheese  cloth,  or  coarse  muslin 
doubled  over,  cornucopia  shape. 


CHAPTERI  15 


To  blanch  almonds  pour  boiling  water  over  shelled  al- 
monds, allow  them  to  stand  2  or  3  minutes,  drain,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  rub  skins  off  between  the  fingers.  Should  they 
fail  to  slip  off  easily  repeat  the  process. 

Milk  is  scalded  when  a  skin  forms  over  the  top.  Use 
double  boiler  to  avoid  burning. 

To  shell  chestnuts.  Score  shells  and  heat  in  pan  with  one 
teaspoon  butter  to  each  pint  of  chestnuts.  Shake  pan  until 
nuts  are  covered  with  melted  butter,  set  in  oven  for  5  minutes 
and  remove  shells  and  skin  together. 

Over  hot  water  means  to  place  the  sauce  pan  either  over 
the  boiling  tea  kettle,  or  in  a  larger  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Used  for  melting  chocolate,  cooking  sauces,  etc. 

To  spin  a  thread  means  that  stage  in  the  boiling  of 
syrup,  when  a  drop  from  the  end  of  a  spoon  dipped  into  the 
syrup,  will  elongate  into  a  fine  thread. 

Coffee  infusion  is  obtained  by  pouring  boiling  water 
through  finely  pulverized  coffee  in  a  double  piece  of  cheese 
cloth,  or  by  boiling  ground  coffee  in  small  quantity  of  water. 
It  must  be  of  double  strength. 

If  parafline  oozes  and  the  juice  appears  on  top,  either 
there  is  a  hole  in  it,  or  it  has  melted  around  the  edges.  Caused 
by  pouring  the  paraffine  over  the  jelly  or  jam  before  the  latter 
is  cold. 

To  wash  butter.  Scald  a  bowl  and  dip  your  right  hand 
several  times  into  the  hot  water,  which  will  not  scald  you  if 
quickly  done;  then  wash  both  bowl  and  hand  in  very  cold 
water,  until  they  are  thoroughly  chilled.  This  process  pre- 
vents the  butter  from  sticking  to  the  bowl  or  your  fingers 
while  washing  it.  Squeeze  the  butter  under  cold  running 
water,  until  it  becomes  waxy  and  pliable.  Pat  and  wipe  dry. 

A  soapstone  griddle  needs  no  greasing.  Before  and  after 
using  rub  it  over  with  salt. 

A  steel  griddle  needs  no  greasing  for  cakes,  as  the  melted 
butter  for  which  the  recipes  call,  is  sufficient  to  keep  them 
from  sticking.  This  does  not  apply  to  cakes  containing 
molasses. 

The  waffle  iron  should  not  be  washed,  clean  it  with  salt. 


16  WHATANDHOW 


A  butter  brush  is  a  small  flat  paint  brush,  to  be  used 
for  buttering  or  greasing  pudding  dishes,  cake  pans,  etc.  It 
must  be  washed  thoroughly  after  using  and  kept  in  a  clean 
glass  containing  enough  water  to  cover  the  bristles.  By  this 
means,  it  is  always  clean  and  needs  only  a  shake  or  two  to 
rid  it  of  superfluous  water  before  using.  If  not  kept  in  water, 
the  bristles  will  become  loose. 

If  boiled  icing  fails  to  harden,  slip  the  cake  into  a  cool 
oven  for  a  few  moments. 

Scissors  are  a  necessity  in  the  kitchen;  keep  a  pair  of 
medium  size  hanging  in  a  convenient  place.  Cut  chicken 
and  celery  for  salad,  meat  for  stews,  raisins  for  cake  and  use 
them  whenever  you  can  instead  of  a  knife. 

When  flour  is  sifted  twice  or  more,  sift  on  to  squares 
of  manilla  paper,  using  2  squares.  The  flour  is  more  easily 
returned  to  the  sifter  from  the  paper  than  from  a  plate  or 
bowl. 

Drain  Codfish  by  squeezing  in  a  small  salt  bag,  after 
washing  well  in  a  sieve.  Souffles,  fish  balls,  creamed  cod- 
fish, etc.,  are  frequently  ruined  by  the  water  clinging  to  the 
fish  after  washing.  This  applies  more  particularly  to  the 
shredded  fish. 

When  ice  cream  or  frozen  fruit  is  coarse  and  granular, 
it  is  because  too  much  salt  has  been  used  in  proportion  to  the 
ice.  This  will  cause  more  rapid  freezing,  but  the  cream  will 
not  be  smooth.  One  measure  of  salt  to  three  of  pounded  ice 
is  the  correct  proportion. 

If  custard  curdles  in  the  making,  it  is  because  it  has  been 
cooked  too  long,  or  the  milk  has  been  added  to  the  yolks  too 
rapidly  or  too  hot.  A  vigorous  beating  with  a  wire  whisk 
will  often  remedy  the  trouble  if  it  is  caused  by  cooking  too 
long;  as  curdling  results  from  the  cooking  of  the  egg  if  the 
milk  is  too  hot,  nothing  will  restore  it  in  that  case. 

To  whip  cream  use  ordinary  cream  from  the  top  of  milk 
bottle.  Unless  you  have  poor  milk,  this  will  be  easily  whipped. 
Whip  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  either  in  a  cold  place,  or  over 
a  bowl  of  cracked  ice.  When  it  is  frothy  on  top,  set  in  the 
refrigerator  for  )4  hour  to  chill  thoroughly,  or  if  the  outside 


CHAPTER     I  17 


temperature  is  low  enough,  by  open  window.  Skim  off  the 
whipped  cream  and  repeat  until  you  have  the  quantity  re- 
quired. If  using  heavy  cream,  be  careful  in  the  beating;  if 
not  very  cold,  or  if  beaten  too  long  this  grade  of  cream  is 
readily  churned  into  butter.  If  a  large  quantity  is  desired, 
purchase  ordinary  cream  and  whip  as  directed  above.  If 
chilled  by  outside  temperature,  it  will  not  require  so  long  as 
yi  hour,  it  may  be  skimmed  off  as  soon  as  it  is  stiff.  This  is  an 
economical  and  easy  method. 

Add  flavoring  extracts  to  custards,  etc.,  when  they  have 
become  cold.  Much  of  the  good  taste  of  these  extracts  will 
pass  off  if  heated.  In  the  case  of  baked  custards,  use  slightly 
larger  quantity  than  in  boiled  custards,  as  they  necessarily 
cannot  be  flavored  after  cooking. 

When  cutting  lemons  for  lemonade,  etc.,  wash  knife  at 
once.    Otherwise  there  will  be  a  stain  to  scour  off. 

After  using  the  cream  dipper  wash  and  hang  up  at  once. 
Especially  if  you  are  fortunate  enough  to  own  one  of  those 
with  a  lifting  valve;  the  wire  is  readily  bent,  which  will  pre- 
vent the  valve  from  covering  the  aperture  closely.  In  case 
the  dipper  leaks,  examine  the  wire  lifter* 

A  soup  bouquet.  Tie  together  1  spray  of  parsley,  1  of 
thyme,  some  celery  tops,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  chilli  pepper.  This 
will  flavor  4  quarts  soup  if  simmered  with  it  for  an  hour  or 
more. 

Pimento,  canned  sweet  red  pepper. 

Timbale,  any  thing  baked  in  small  moulds,  turned  out 
and  served  hot. 

Tarragon,  an  herb  used  in  flavoring  vinegar. 

Chives,  an  herb  allied  to  the  onion  family. 

Garlic,  an  herb  allied  to  the  onion  family. 

Capers  are  the  buds  of  a  plant  growing  in  countries  border- 
ing on  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  and  imported  into  this  country 
in  bottles.     Valuable  in  sauces,  etc. 

Paprika,  a  powder  made  from  sweet  red  pepper, 
and  not  to  be  confused  with  cayenne.  It  is  a  valuable 
seasoning. 


18  WHATANDHOW 


Measuring. 

For  all  cup  measures,  use  either  glass  or  aluminum  measur- 
ing cups,  with  both  quarters  and  thirds  marked  on  the  sides. 

A  teaspoonful  means,  unless  otherwise  stated,  a  well 
rounded  teaspoonful. 

A  tablespoonf ul  — the  same. 

For  half  teaspoons  and  tablespoons,  take  a  rounded 
spoonful,  and  with  a  knife  cut  in  half  lengthwise  and  not 
across. 

Use  regulation  tablespoon  for  measuring,  do  not  confuse 
with   ordinary  kitchen   stirring  spoon. 

A  cupful  of  butter,  lard  or  Crisco  means  a  cup  packed 
full  and   leveled   off. 

In  measuring  dry  ingredients,  liquids,  and  fat,  measure 
in  order  named,  so  as  to  use  but  one  cup. 

To  measure  when  recipe  calls  for  weighing,  the  following 
table  may  be  used: 

1  pound  of  butter  is  2  cups. 

1  pound  of  flour  is  4  cups. 

1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  is  2  cups. 

1  pound  of  powdered  sugar  is  2^"  cups. 

1  pound  brown  sugar  is  2^3  cups. 

1  ounce  of  chocolate  is  1  square  (Baker's). 

1  ounce  butter  is  1  tablespoon. 

1  ounce  flour  is  2  tablespoons. 

A  tablespoon  holds  3  teaspoons. 

A  cup  holds  8  tablespoons. 

A  cup  holds  16  tablespoons  liquid. 

A  gill  of  liquid  is  y^  cup. 

1  ounce  granulated  sugar  is  1  tablespoon. 

1  ounce  coffee,  ground,  is  2  tablespoons. 

2  tablespoons  liquid  make  1  ounce. 


How  to  Use  Gas  Economically. 

Never  use  a  large  burner  when  a  small  one  will  do  the  work. 
Do  not  use  heavy  iron  pots  and  kettles— it  takes  gas  to 
heat   them. 


CHAPTER     I.  19 


Have  articles  ready  at  the  range  before  lighting  gas. 

TURN  FLAME  DOWN  to  keep  flame  underneath  the 
sauce    pan. 

Gas  is  wasted  when  flame  flares  up  around  sides  of  kettle. 

TURN  FLAME  LOW  when  boiling  begins  and  boiling 
will  continue  with  half  the  blaze  of  gas. 

Use  simmer  burner  for  soup,  stew,  boiling  ham,  etc.; 
also  for  the  coffee  pot. 

Plan  to  have  ready  several  things  for  the  ovens  at  one 
time  and  thus  cook  a  variety  of  articles  in  the  bake-oven  with 
the  same  heat  that  roasts  or  broils  meat  in  lower  oven  under 
the  flame. 

Vegetables  may  "fry"  or  brown  in  same  pan  with  meat. 

Vegetables  may  boil  on  floor  of  oven  while  meat  cooks 
in  broiler  under  the  flame. 

Slide  racks  in  bake-oven  at  proper  height,  set  no  baking 
on  floor. 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING  WITH  GAS. 

Baking. 

Loaf  Bread 40  to  60  min. 

Light  Rolls 5  to  12  min. 

Biscuit 10  to  15  min. 

Muffins 20  to  30  min. 

Layer  Cakes 20  to  30  min. 

Loaf  Cakes 40  to  75  min. 

Sponge  Cakes 40  to  75  min. 

Cookies 10  to  15  min. 

Custards 15  to  30  min. 

Pies 20  to  30  min. 

Potatoes 20  to  40  min. 

Beans 8  to  10   hrs. 

Braised  Meat 3  to    4   hrs. 

Scallops 15  to  30  min. 

Fish,  4  to  6  lbs 1  to  1J4  hrs. 


20  WHATANDHOW 


Roasting  and  Broiling 

Beef —Rolled  Roast,  Sirloin,  Rump 

12  min.  to  the  pound  after  browning 

Mutton. 15  min.  to  the  pound  after  browning 

Veal,  Lamb,  well  done 20  min.  to  the  pound 

Pork 30  min.  to  the  pound 

Chickens,  2^  to  4  lbs 1  to  iy£  hrs. 

Turkey,  10-lbs 3  hrs. 

Ducks,  about 1  hr. 

Steak,  1}4  in.  thick 18  to  20  min. 

Chops,  1  in.  thick 15  min. 

Small  Fish,  about 15  min. 

Thick  Fish .20  to  30  min. 

Chickens,  broiled 20  to  30  min. 

Boiling. 

Eggs,  Coffee,  Clams,  Oysters 3  to    5  min. 

Rice,  Green  Corn,  Peas,  Tomatoes,  Asparagus  ....  15  to  30  min. 
Potatoes,    Macaroni,    Squash,    Celery,    Spinach, 

Sweetbreads 20  to  40  min. 

Young  Vegetables 30  to  45  min. 

Winter  Vegetables,  Cereals,  Chicken  and  Lamb    . .   1  to    2   hrs. 

Fowl,  Turkey,  Veal 2  to    3   hrs. 

Corned  Beef,  Tongue,  Ham 3  to    6   hrs. 

Fish,  per  lb 10  to  15  min. 

TIME  TABLE 
FOR  COAL  RANGE. 

Baking. 

Beans,  8  to  10  hours. 

Beef,  rare,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 

Beef,  well  done,  per  pound,  12  minutes. 

Biscuits,  10  to  15  minutes. 

Bread,  45  to  60  minutes. 

Cake,  layer,  20  minutes. 

Cake,  loaf,  plain,  35  to  45  minutes. 

Cake,  fruit,  2  to  4  hours. 


CHAPTERI  21 


Cake,  sponge,  45  minutes. 

Chickens,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Cookies,  10  minutes. 

Custards  in  cups,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Custard  puddings,  30  to  45  minutes. 

Duck,  domestic,  1  hour. 

Duck,  wild,  per  pound,  12  minutes. 

Fish,  whole,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 

Fish,  fillets,  20  minutes. 

Gingerbread,  30  minutes. 

Graham  gems,  30  minutes. 

Goose,  8  to  10  pounds,  2  hours. 

Ham,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Lamb,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Liver,  per  pound,  12  minutes. 

Meat,  braised,  3  hours. 

Mutton,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Muffins,  yeast,  J^  hour. 

Muffins,  baking  powder,  20  minutes. 

Partridge,  35  to  40  minutes. 

Pigeons,  45  to  60  minutes. 

Pork,  per  pound,  20  minutes. 

Potatoes,  45  minutes. 

Pie  crust,  30  to  50  minutes. 

Puddings,  plum,  3  hours. 

Puddings,  bread  and  tapioca,  1  hour. 

Puddings,  rice,  \y£  hours. 

Rolls,  12  to  20  minutes. 

Scalloped  dishes,  cooked  mixture,  15  minutes. 

Scalloped  oysters,  30  minutes. 

Tarts,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Turkey,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Veal,  per  pound,  18  minutes. 

Venison,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 


Boiling. 

Asparagus,  20  to  30  min'utes. 
Beans,  lima,  25  to  40  minutes. 


22  WHATANDHOW 


Beans,  string,  45  to  90  minutes. 

Beef,  corned,  4  to  5  hours. 

Beets,  new,  45  minutes. 

Beets,  old,  3  to  4  hours. 

Bass  and  bluefish,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 

Brussels  sprouts,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Cabbage,  25  to  45  minutes. 

Carrots,  young,  45  minutes. 

Carrots,  old,  \yi  hours. 

Cauliflower,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Celery,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Chicken,  young,  1  hour. 

Chicken,  old,  3  hours. 

Clams  and  oysters,  5  minutes. 

Codfish,  fresh,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 

Corn,  green,  5  to  8  minutes. 

Eggs,  soft,  3  minutes. 

Eggs,  hard,  20  minutes. 

Haddock,  per  pound,  10  minutes. 

Halibut,  per  pound,  thick  slice,  15  minutes. 

Ham,  12  pounds,  4  hours. 

Hominy,  large,  8  to  10  hours. 

Hominy,  fine,  1  hour. 

Lobster,  30  minutes. 

Macaroni,  25  minutes. 

Mutton,  per  pound,  15  minutes. 

Oatmeal,  1  hour. 

Onions,  45  to  60  minutes. 

Oyster  plant  (salsify)  45  to  60  minutes. 

Parsnips,  30  to  45  minutes. 

Peas,  green,  20  minutes. 

Peas,  dried  and  soaked,  1  hour. 

Potatoes,  white,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Potatoes,  sweet,  15  to  25  minutes. 

Rice,  20  to  25  minutes. 

Salmon,  thick  piece,  per  pound,  20  minutes. 

Small  fish,  per  pound,  8  minutes. 

Spinach,  20  to  30  minutes. 


CHAPTERI.  23 


Squash,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Sweetbreads,  20  minutes. 
Tomatoes,  20  minutes. 
Turkey,  per  pound,  18  to  20  minutes. 
Turnips,  30  to  45  minutes. 

Broiling. 

Chickens,  20  minutes. 
Chops,  lamb,  8  to  10  minutes. 
Shad,  15  to  30  minutes. 
Steak,  6  to  8  minutes. 
Squabs,  10  to  15  minutes. 
Slices  of  fish,  12  to  15  minutes. 

Frying. 

Bacon,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Chops,  breaded,  6  to  8  minutes. 
Croquettes,  2  minutes. 
Doughnuts,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Fillets  of  fish,  5  minutes. 
Fish  balls,  2  minutes. 
Fritters,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Potatoes,  raw,  4  to  8  minutes. 
Smelts,  3  minutes. 
Small  fish,  5  minutes. 

This  time  table  is  as  nearly  accurate  as  can  be  given,  and 
is  to  serve  as  a  guide  until  experience  is  gained.  Time  for 
baking  bread  and  cake  depends  upon  the  size  of  the  loaf;  for 
fish,  upon  its  thickness.  For  boiling  vegetables,  the  time  de- 
pends upon  their  size  and  age;  time  for  boiling  meat,  upon  its 
thickness,  and  for  frying  raw  potatoes,  upon  whether  they  are 
sliced  very  thin  or  cut  in  blocks,  or  Frenched. 


u 


CHAPTER  II. 

HOT  BEVERAGES  AND  COLD  DRINKS 

Tea. 

Always  use  freshly  boiled  water  for  making  tea  and  drip 
coffee.  Scald  tea  or  coffee  pot  well  before  using.  Allow  for 
tea,  1  teaspoon  tea  for  each  cup  and  1  extra  "for  the  pot." 
After  pouring  the  boiling  water  over  the  tea,  let  stand  closely 
covered,  five  minutes,  and  strain.  Tea  made  in  this  man- 
ner is  far  less  unwholesome  than  by  any  other  method.  If 
boiled  or  allowed  to  stand  longer,  too  much  tannin  is  ex- 
tracted. For  iced  tea,  make  double  strength,  or  2  teaspoons 
tea  to  1  cup  of  water. 

Coffee. 

Three  methods  are  employed  in  making  coffee,  filtering, 
percolating  and  boiling.  While  it  is  largely  a  matter  of  taste, 
and  many  persons  prefer  their  coffee  boiled,  filtered  coffee  has  two 
points  in  its  favor,  first,  economy  of  material,  and  second, 
in  variableness,  which  is  also  true  of  the  percolating  process. 

The  coffee  must  be  pulverized,  consequently  it  takes 
much  less  to  make  a  cup,  besides  which  no  egg  or  other  material 
for  clearing  is  necessary.  As  the  water  is  merely  poured  over  the 
coffee,  and  there  is  no  cooking,  it  is  always  the  same  and  can 
be  depended  upon  to  be  just  right  in  strength,  and  clear  in 
color. 

Do  not  use  tin  coffee  pot;  enamel  ware  for  boiling,  and 
china  or  silver  for  filtered  coffee  will  be  found  the  best;  for 
percolating,  aluminun. 

Boiled  Coffee. 

Scald  granite  ware  or  enameled  coffee  pot.  For  four 
or  five  cups  coffee,  allow  $4  cup  coarsely  ground  coffee,  and 
mix  with  %  cup  cold  water.  Add  1  egg  and  the  crushed  shell. 
Stir  until  well  mixed.  Add  3  cups  boiling  water  and  boil 
hard  for  three  minutes,  stir  well,  and  boil  three  minutes 
longer.     Add  %  cup  cold  water  to  settle  the  grounds,  and 


HOT  BEVERAGES  AND  COLD  DRINKS     25 


put  on  back  of  stove  where  it  will  not  boil.  After  standing 
a  few  moments  to  settle  perfectly  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

A  more  economical  way  and  almost  as  good  is  to  use 
same  proportion  of  coffee  and  water,  substituting  cold  water 
for  boiling.  Let  it  stand  over  night  in  the  closely  covered 
pot.  In  the  morning  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  boil 
three  minutes,  stir,  and  boil  three  minutes  more.  Clear  by 
using  the  cold  water  as  in  preceding  recipe.  By  this  means 
all  the  strength  of  the  coffee  is  extracted.  It  can  also  be  made 
without  standing  over  night,  but  the  whole  strength  of  the 
coffee  is  not  drawn  out. 

Filtered  or  Drip  Coffee. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  coffee  pots  or  percolaters  on 
the  market,  as  a  glauce  at  the  advertising  end  of  the  maga- 
zines will  show.  The  simplest  way  of  making  drip  coffee  is 
to  have  a  ring  of  copper  wire  with  an  open  space  about  an 
inch  long,  made  to  fit  over  a  china  pitcher  or  silver  coffee 
pot.  On  this  run  a  bag  of  muslin  of  rather  coarse  weave, 
but  thicker  than  cheese  cloth.  If  making  two  or  three  cups, 
the  ring  sholuld  hold  a  bag  not  less  than  four  inches  deep  and 
nine  inches  around  the  top,  with  the  corners  cut  off  at  the 
bottom  to  give  a  rounded  shape.  Finish  with  a  single  hem, 
through  which  the  wire  ring  may  slip.  For  a  larger  quantity 
of  coffee  the  bag  should  be  five  inches  deep  and  about  twelve 
inches  around  the  top. 

Allow  3  heaping  teaspoons  of  pulverized  coffee  to  2  coffee 
cups  water,  which  must  be  boiling  hard  and  poured  over  the 
coffee  in  the  bag  very  gradually.  Have  pot  or  pitcher  scalding 
hot,  the  bag  also,  and  keep  closely  covered  while  making. 
The  saving  in  coffee  will  make  it  quite  worth  while  to  pur- 
chase a  coffee  grinder  that  will  pulverize;  it  will  pay  for  itself 
in  a  short  time  and  last  for  years. 

After  Dinner  Coffee 

may  be  made  according  to  either  recipe,  but  must  be  made 
double  strength.  Its  clearness  is  assured  by  the  use  of  the 
bag. 


26  WHATANDHOW 


Vienna  Coffee. 

Make  coffee  double  strength.  Pour  cup  half  full,  fill  it 
up  with  scalding  hot  milk  and  top  off  with  whipped  cream. 
This  is  delicious,  and  will  serve  to  remind  some  of  the  older 
housekeepers  of  the  Centennial  Fair  in  Philadelphia  in  1876. 

To  Make  Three  Cups  of  Coffee. 

y2  cup  ground  coffee.  Scald  coffee  pot,  put  in  the  coffee 
and  ^2  egg  and  shell.  The  remainder  will  do  for  the  next  day. 
Mix  egg  and  coffee  with  a  spoon;  add  2^"  cups  cold  water. 
Put  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  gradually  and  come  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point.  The  more  time  it  has  to  reach  this  point, 
the  more  strength  it  will  have.  Allow  it  to  boil  5  minutes, 
pour  ^  cup  cold  water  into  the  spout  to  settle  it,  and  set  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  where  it  cannot  boil,  for  5  minutes  before 
serving. 

Chocolate. 

Scald  3  cups  milk  in  double  boiler.  Melt  \y2  squares 
chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  %  cup  sugar  and  a  dash  of  salt. 
Gradually  pour  into  this,  1  cup  boiling  water,  put  on  to  the 
stove  and  stir  smooth  until  ready  to  boil.  Add  to  milk,  mill 
and  serve  in  chocolate  cups.  Whipped  cream  may  be  dropped 
on  each  cup  if  desired. 

Cocoa. 

Cocoa  is  a  healthful  beverage,  differing  from  chocolate 
in  the  amount  of  fat  extracted  from  the  cocoa  nibs  or  beans. 
Invalids  and  young  children  can  be  allowed  cocoa  where  choco- 
late is  forbidden.  Both  chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  nutriment 
which  is  largely  increased  by  the  milk  used  to  make  them  into 
beverages.  Miss  Farmar  classes  chocolate  as  a  confection 
and  cocoa  as  a  beverage.  Her  "Boston  Cooking  School  Cook 
Book"  contains  a  full  account  of  the  manufacture  of  different 
preparations  from  the  fruit  of  the  Cacao  tree. 

To  Make  Cocoa 

follow    directions    given    on    can.      Different    brands    require 


HOT  BEVERAGES  AND  COLD  DRINKS     27 


different  quantities.     A   marshmallow  dropped  into  each  cup 
will  give  almost  the  same  richness  as  whipped  cream. 

Lemonade. 

Lemonade  is  entitled  to  first  place  on  the  list  of  fruit 
beverages,  refreshing  as  it  is  in  itself,  and  capable  as  it  is  of 
numerous  variations. 

Proportions  for  mixing  are  3  times  as  much  sugar  as  lemon 
juice,  and  6  times  as  much  water,  but  it  may  be  wise  to  hold 
back  part  of  the  sugar  until  after  mixing,  in  case  it  should 
be  too  sweet.  It  is  quite  easy  to  add  more  sugar,  but  not  so 
easy  to  add  more  lemon  juice  and  water.  In  hot  weather  it 
is  most  convenient  to  have  lemonade  syrup  "on  tap."  It  will 
keep  in  the  refrigerator  for  a  week. 

Lemonade  Syrup. 

\Yi  cups  lemon  juice  2  quarts  water 

4  cups  sugar 

Boil  sugar  and  water  for  ten  minutes  without  stirring, 
add  lemon  juice  and  cool.  Put  into  bottles  or  preserve  jars, 
and  keep  in  cold  place.  When  desired  for  use,  dilute  with 
ice  water,  and  serve  in  glasses  with  cracked  ice. 

Cut  up  the  lemon  skins  and  cover  with  cold  water.  After 
standing  several  hours,  or  over  night,  drain  and  use  water  to 
dilute  syrup. 

Lemonade  II. 

Serve  lemonade  prepared  as  above  with  a  sprig  of  fresh 
mint  in  the  glass.     It  gives  a  most  refreshing  flavor. 

Mint  Tulip. 

To  the  juice  of  6  lemons  and  1  orange,  add  2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  water  and  6  thin  slices  lemon.  Let  this  mixture  stand  on 
ice  for  4  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  add  the  grated  peel  of 
1  lemon  and  3  bottles  of  ginger  ale.    Also  a  bunch  of  mint. 

Mint  Cup. 

Express  the  juice  from  5  large  lemons.  Strip  the  leaves 
from  a  bunch  of  mint— there  should  be  about  a  cupful— and 


28  WHATANDHOW 


crush  them  with  iy<  cups  sugar  and  *4  cup  water.  Add  the 
lemon  juice,  cover  and  let  stand  half  hour  or  longer.  Just 
before  serving,  pour  into  large  pitcher  and  add  three  bottles 
ginger  ale,  previously  chilled.  If  desired,  more  water  may 
be  added,  without  spoiling  the  flavor;  it  will  weaken  the  taste 
of  the  ginger  ale. 

Pineapple  Lemonade. 

Boil  together  2  cups  water  and  1  cup  sugar  ten  minutes 
without  stirring.  Add  juice  three  lemons,  1  quart  ice  water, 
and  1  can  Hawaiian  grated  pineapple.     Strain  if  desired. 

Apollinaris  Lemonade. 

Dilute  lemonade  syrup  with  half  quantity  of  ice  water, 
and  add  Appollinaris  water. 

Fruit  Punch. 

1  cup  water  1  pint  strawberry  juice 

2  cups  sugar  5  large  lemons,  juice  only 
2  cups  grape  juice                             5  oranges,  juice  only 

1  quart  Appollinaris  1  can  Hawaiian  grated  pineapple 

1  pint  fresh  strawberries  1  cup  bananas  diced 

Make  syrup  according  to  directions  given  in  preceding 
recipes,  add  grape  juice,  fruit  juices,  and  pineapple.  Cover 
and  let  stand  at  least  an  hour.  Strain  and  add  ice  water  care- 
fully until  it  tastes  just  right,  neither  too  strong  nor  too  weak. 
Add  strawberries  and  bananas,  and  pour  into  a  punch  bowl 
over  a  large  piece  of  ice.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  into  it 
the  Appollinaris  water.  While  'strictly  a  fruit  punch,  this 
beverage  will  pass  for  a  punch  not  entirely  innocent  of  wine 
and  brandy.     The  recipe  makes  50  lemonade  glasses  full. 

Victoria  Punch. 

Pour  1  cup  hot  tea  infusion  over  1  cup  granulated  sugar. 
When  sugar  is  dissolved  add  $4  CUP  orange  juice  and  }i  cup 
lemon  juice.  Strain  into  a  punch  bowl  over  large  piece  ice, 
and  just  before  serving  add  1  pint  ginger  ale  and  1  pint  Appol- 
linaris water. 


HOT  BEVERAGES  AND  COLD  DRINKS  29 


Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Raspberry  vinegar  is  an  old-fashioned  beverage  which 
will  never  be  declined  if  properly  prepared.  Use  fresh  rasp- 
berries; put  them  into  a  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  keep 
them  from  sticking.  When  hot  through,  mash  with  a  wooden 
spoon  and  hang  up  over  night  in  a  jelly  bag,  or  put  through 
a  fruit  press  which  is  more  expeditious.  To  each  pint  of  juice 
allow  1  pint  sugar  and  boil  20  minutes.  Add  vinegar  to  taste, 
bottle  and  seal.  To  use,  dilute  with  ice  water  and  serve  in 
glasses  with  cracked  ice. 

Blackberry  Vinegar. 

is  made  just  as  raspberry  vinegar,  using  blackberries  instead 
of  raspberries. 

Grape  Juice. 

10  lbs.  grapes  1  cup  water 

3  pounds  sugar 

Put  grapes  arid  water  into  kettle  and  cook  until  skins 
and  seeds  separate.  Strain  in  jelly  bag  or  put  through  fruit 
press.  Return  juice  to  fire,  add  sugar  and  heat  to  boiling 
point.  Bottle  and  seal.  This  should  make  1  gallon.  To 
use,  dilute  with  water,  and  serve  in  small  glasses  over  crushed 
ice. 

English  Lemonade. 

Scrub  6  lemons,  and  with  6  lumps  of  sugar,  rub  the  "zest" 
or  oil  from  the  peel.  Squeeze  the  lemons,  add  the  strained 
juice  to  the  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  that  will  thread,  of  >£  cup 
water  and  4  cups  sugar,  add  to  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  When 
dissolved  add,  3  cups  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  set  aside 
to  chill.  Serve  with  plenty  of  ice.  A  cup  of  chopped  pineapple 
may  be  added,  or  strawberries,  if  in  season. 

Iced  Tea. 

Make  tea  double  strength,  allow  it  to  steep  10  minutes, 
strain.  Add  more  water,  stir  up  the  tea  leaves,  cover  and 
let  stand  10  minutes.     Strain  and  add  to  first  lot.     This  can 


30  WHATANDHOW 


be  diluted  with  ice  water,  thus  cooling  it  quickly.  Serve  in 
glasses  with  cracked  ice;  sugar  and  sliced  lemon  to  be  passed 
with  it. 

Iced  Coffee  I. 

Make  strong  coffee  (see  recipe  for  after  dinner  coffee), 
and  while  hot  add  y^  as  much  scalding  hot  milk.  Chill,  and 
serve  in  glasses  half  full  of  cracked  ice.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Pile  whipped  cream  on  top  each  glass. 

Iced  Coffee  II. 

Make  after  dinner  coffee,  chill;  serve  in  glasses  with  cracked 
ice,  %  full;  top  off  with  whipped  cream  sweetened.  Pass  sugar 
with  it. 


31 


CHAPTER  III. 

SOUPS 

Soup  Stock. 

The  correct  proportion  of  meat,  bones  and  fat  is  essen- 
tial for  the  best  stock,  but  very  good  stock  can  be  made  and 
kept  constantly  on  hand  by  adding  from  time  to  time  trim- 
mings from  roasts,  bones,  etc.,  boiled  with  a  small  quantity 
of  water  and  strained.  No  one  realizes  what  a  help  a  stock 
pot  is  until  it  is  established  in  the  house.  Use  a  stone  jar  with 
a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  for  a  cover.  Keep  in  a  cool  place,  reheat 
occasionally,  and  it  will  not  spoil. 

In  making  stock,  use  Y$  meat  and  yz  bone  and  fat.  The 
bone  furnishes  the  gelatin  which  causes  good  stock  to  jelly, 
part  of  the  fat  is  absorbed,  the  surplus  will  rise  to  the  top  when 
cold,  and  must  be  removed.  The  best  meat  for  stock  is  the 
neck  or  sticking  piece,  with  a  marrow  bone  well  cracked.  Cut 
meat  into  small  pieces,  the  more  surface  exposed  to  the  heat, 
the  more  juice  will  be  extracted.  Cover  with  cold  water,  add 
salt  to  draw  out  juices,  heat  slowly  and  simmer  for  two  hours. 
Now  add,  for  three  quarts  liquid,  half  a  cup  each  carrots, 
turnips,  onion,  and  celery  cut  into  small  bits,  four  cloves, 
]A.  bay  leaf  and  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  and  simmer  for  one  hour 
longer.  Strain  and  cool  quickly.  Before  using  remove  fat 
from  top  of  jar.  Do  not  skim  the  soup  while  cooking  unless 
a  perfectly  clear  stock  is  desired.  The  scum  which  rises  to 
the  top  is  albumen  which  is  the  chief  nutriment  in  the  soup. 

To  Clarify  Stock. 

For  bouillon,  a  clear  stock  is  essential.  To  each  quart  of 
stock,  allow  the  shell  and  white  of  one  egg.  Beat  egg  slightly, 
crush  shell,  and  add  to  stock.  Stir  constantly  until  boiling 
point  is  reached.  Boil  two  minutes,  simmer  twenty  minutes, 
and  strain  through  jelly  bag  or  two  thicknesses  cheese  cloth 
in  a  strainer. 

To  Bind  Soup. 

Purees  and  cream  soups  require  binding,  to  hold  together 
the  liquids  and  solids.     This  is  done  by  adding  butter  and 


32  WHATANDHOW 


flour  rubbed  together  until  smooth.     One  tablespoon  of  each  is 
sufficient  to  bind  the  quantities  given  in  these  recipes. 

How  to  Use  Soup  Meat. 

Save  meat  from  which  your  stock  has  been  made,  all  of 
the  nourishment  has  not  been  extracted  by  boiling;  indeed, 
practically  none  of  it.  The  flavor  can  be  restored.  After  re- 
moving gristle  and  fat,  put  it  twice  through  the  meat  chopper. 

In  a  sauce  pan,  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  rub  smooth.  Stir  in  2  cups  milk  and  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  }4  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
meat,  of  which  there  should  be  2  cups,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  minced  piarsley,  and  last,  the  whipped  whites 
of  3  eggs,  folded  in.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  half  an  hour. 

Saving  for  Soup  Stock. 

There  is  nothing  too  trivial  to  save  for  soup.  All  scraps 
of  meat  are  available,  as  are  bones  which  should  be  broken 
up  if  possible,  to  secure  the  gelatin  from  them.  Aside  from 
meat  and  bones  for  stock,  small  quantities  of  vegetables,  gravy 
or  sauces  may  be  used  in  combination.  Two  examples  are 
given  below. 

A  Dinner  Soup. 

Two  cups  stock,  which  should  be  a  thick  jelly,  1  cup  stewed 
tomato,  rubbed  through  sieve,  }4  cup  sliced  mushrooms,  left 
after  making  cream  of  mushroom  soup.     Salt  and  pepper. 

A  Luncheon  Soup. 

2  cups  stock  Celery  tops  and  soup  herbs 

}4  cup  peas  .K  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  rubbed 

}4  cup  boiled  rice  through  a  sieve 

Salt  and  pepper 

As  all  ingredients  have  been  previously  cooked,  this  soup 
needs  only  to  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Remove  herbs  before 
serving. 


SOUPS  33 

SOUPS  WITH  STOCK. 
Vegetable  Soup. 

1  quart  soup  stock  3  large  onions  sliced 

1  can  tomatoes  \i  cup  each,  carrot  , turnip  and  celery, 

1  cup  sweet  potatoes,  cut  into  small  diced 

cubes  1  cup  chopped  cabbage 

2  cups  white  potatoes  cut  small  1  bunch  soup  herbs  and  celery  tops 

Boil  the  vegetables  together  until  tender,  add  to  stock 
and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Unless  the  tomatoes  have  plenty 
of  juice,  it  will  be  necessary  to  add  water,  and  if  they  are  acid, 
which  they  are  likely  to  be  in  winter,  heat  them,  stir  in  a  pinch 
of  soda  and  then  add  the  vegetables. 

Consomme. 
Consomme  must  be  a  clear  amber  color,  and  well  sea- 
soned. To  make  perfectly  clear,  follow  directions  given  for 
clarifying  stock,  fold  a  towel  and  lay  it  in  a  colander  over  a 
bowl.  Pour  the  soup  through  this,  letting  it  run  through 
without  squeezing  it.  If  not  salt  enough,  add  salt,  and  a  little 
kitchen  bouquet.    Lemon  juice  adds  to  flavor. 

Quick  Consomme. 
Consomme    may   be    made   in   an   emergency,    with   beef 
extract,  seasoned  well  with  salt,  pepper,  kitchen  bouquet  and 
lemon  juice.     This  saves  much  trouble  and  time,  and  if  judi- 
ciously seasoned,  is  quite  as  good  as  though  made  with  stock. 

Brown  Soup. 

3  lbs .  lean  beef,  cut  into  pieces  3  onions,  sliced 

3  quarts  water 

Boil  beef  and  water  for  one  hour.  Fry  onions  in  good 
dripping  until  soft  and  light  brown  in  color.  Add  to  the  soup, 
with  a  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  ]4.  teaspoon  pepper,  %  tea- 
spoon mace,  a  pinch  of  allspice,  a  bunch  of  celery  tops  and  a 
bunch  of  soup  herbs.  Cook  slowly  for  two  hours  longer,  or 
until  the  meat  has  boiled  to  pieces.  Strain  through  wire  sieve 
and  return  to  fire.  Add  salt  to  taste,  yi  teaspoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 


34  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Calf's  Head  Soup. 

1  large  calf's  head,  well  cleaned  4  pig's  feet,  well  washed 

Lay  the  head  and  feet  in  a  large  soup  pot  and  cover  with 
4  quarts  water.  Bring  to  the  boil  quickly  and  simmer  for 
three  hours,  or  until  the  meat  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones. 
Remove  the  head,  allowing  the  feet  to  continue  cooking.  Fill 
a  teacup  with  selected  portions  of  fatty  meat  which  lie  on 
the  top  of  the  head  and  the  cheeks;  set  aside  to  cool.  Re- 
move the  brains  to  a  saucer  and  cool.  Chop  rest  of  the  meat 
and  the  tongue  very  fine  (it  may  be  put  through  a  meat  chopper, 
using  the  second  cutter),  season  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered 
marjoram  and  thyme,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  mace, 
^  teaspoon  of  allspice  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Return  to  the 
soup  pot  and  cook  until  meat  falls  from  bones  of  the  pig's 
feet.  Remove  bones  and  allow  the  gelatinous  meat  to  re- 
main. Boil  all  together,  closely  covered,  for  two  hours  longer, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  set  aside  until  the  next  day.  An 
hour  before  needed,  heat  thoroughly  and  strain.  Turn  out 
the  meat  from  the  tea  cup,  cut  into  squares,  and  add  to  the 
soup. 

Make  force  meat  balls  as  follows:  Rub  yolks  5  hard 
boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  gradually  to  moisten 
the  brains,  a  teaspoon  butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Add  2  eggs 
beaten  light.  With  floured  hands,  make  into  small  balls,  and 
cook  in  the  soup  five  minutes.  Bind  with  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter melted  in  sauce  pan  and  browned  and  1  tablespoon  flour 
added  gradually  to  keep  the  brown  color.  If  too  light  col- 
ored, use  kitchen  bouquet.  After  binding,  allow  it  to  boil 
two  minutes,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Do  not  allow  it  to 
cook  more  than  half  an  hour  the  second  day.  Have  the  blocks 
of  meat  and  the  force  meat  balls  ready  before  the  second  heat- 
ing. Marion  Harland  adds  to  this  recipe,  which  is  hers,  this 
paragraph : 

"This  has  been  called  'the  king  of  soups,'  and  is  really 
more  delicious  than  the  real  turtle  soup  of  which  it  is  an  imi- 
tation; it  is  hoped  no  one  will  be  afraid  to  undertake  its  pre- 
paration on  account  of  the  apparently  tedious  modes  I  have 
described.     If  directions  be  closely  followed,  the  result  is  sure 


SOUPS  35 


to  l>c  satisfactory  and  the  task  is  much  less  troublesome  than 
it  appears  to  be."  Force  meat  halls  are  not  a  necessity,  but  an 
addition  to  this  soup. 

Chicken  Soup  I. 

Use  an  old  fowl  rather  than  a  young  chicken.  It  has 
more  flavor  and  has  the  additional  advantage  of  being  cheaper 
in  price.  Joint  and  boil  slowly  but  steadily  in  enough  water 
to  cover  it,  until  meat  leaves  the  bones.  Add  12  cloves  to 
the  water  while  boiling.  Strain,  and  set  aside  until  next  day. 
Remove  all  fat  from  stock,  using  blotting  paper  if  necessary 
to  secure  every  particle  of  it. 

Heat  stock,  add  2  cups  cream  or  milk,  thicken  slightly 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  the  tureen  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  and  pour  soup  over  it  slowly  at  first,  beating 
well  to  prevent  curdling.  Do  not  throw  away  the  chicken. 
See  directions  for  using  soup  meat  (Page  32). 

Chicken  Soup  II. 

1  old  fowl  3  quarts  cold  water 

1  knuckle  of  veal  1  bunch  soup  herbs 

Cut  meat  from  knuckle,  joint  the  chicken,  put  meat, 
bones  and  chicken  into  large  kettle  with  3  quarts  cold  water, 
heat  slowly  to  boiling  and  simmer  for  4  hours.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  1  large  onibn  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
cook  1  hour  longer.  Strain,  cool,  and  remove  fat.  To  three 
cups  of  this  stock,  add  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  smooth 
with  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  just  before  serving  add  yolks 
2  eggs  well  beaten  and  1  cup  milk  or  cream.  When  adding 
thickening  where  there  is  more  flour  than  butter,  pour  some 
of  the  hot  liquid  on  to  the  paste  before  adding  to  the  soup. 

Gumbo. 

1  fowl  (old  chicken)  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  onions,  sliced  1  pint  corn,  scraped  from  cob 
]/2  lb.  lean  ham  1  pint  tomatoes 

2  quarts  cold  water  %  green  pepper,  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper  2  doz.  okra  pods 


36  WHATANDHOW 


Joint  the  fowl  and  fry  on  both  sides  to  close  the  pores, 
not  over  5  minutes.  Remove  chicken  to  soup  kettle,  and  fry 
the  onions  in  the  same  fat  in  which  the  chicken  was  seared. 
When  a  golden  brown,  put  into  the  kettle  with  the  chicken 
and  add  the  dold  water;  bring  slowly  to  the  boil  and  simmer 
2  hours.  Add  okra,  sliced,  the  chopped  pepper  and  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  into  pieces.  Continue  the  simmering  until 
chicken  is  tender.  Remove  the  larger  bones,  add  corn,  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  not  quite  thick  (and  the  okras 
should  have  thickened  it),  roll  the  butter  in  flour  before  add- 
ing it  to  the  gumbo.  After  adding  corn,  cook  5  minutes. 
Serve  with  a  dish  of  boiled  rice,  and  one  of  stewed  or  scal- 
loped onions. 

Oyster  Soup. 

1  quart  oysters,  chopped  Sprig  of  parsley 

4  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  slice  onion  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  blades  mace  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Strain  oyster  liquor,  after  heating  it,  through  a  double 
thickness  cheese  cloth.  Wash  and  chop  oysters;  heat  them 
in  the  liquor,  bringing  slowly  to  boiling  point.  Simmer  20 
minutes.  Strain  through  the  cheese  cloth  again,  squeezing  out 
all  of  the  juice.  Scald  milk,  with  onion,  parsley  and  mace, 
remove  seasonings,  add  to  oyster  liquor,  and  re-heat.  Add 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  ready  to  serve,  pour  gradually  into  tureen  over  the 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  beating  all  the  time.    Serve  very  hot. 

Clam  Soup  I. 

1  quart  clams  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  Pepper  and  salt 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Put  clams  through  meat  chopper,  after  picking  over  care- 
fully to  remove  pieces  of  shell,  and  washing  well.  Scald  1 
cup  water,  add  chopped  clams  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Heat 
milk  and  onion,  cook  5  minutes.  Remove  onion,  add  clams 
to  milk,  bind  with  flour  and  butter,  add  salt  and  pepper;  cook 


SOUPS  37 


5  minutes  and  pour  into  tureen  over  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Clams  may  be  strained  out  if  desired. 

Clam  Soup  II. 

50  clams  1  cup  milk 

1  quart  water  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

4  slices  toast 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  mince  clams  as  directed  in  preced- 
ing recipe.  Heat  and  strain  liquor  from  clams.  Put  liquor, 
clams  and  water  into  sauce  pan  and  simmer  \}4  hours.  Do 
not  boil,  simmer  gently.  By  this  time  the  clams  should  be 
so  well  cooked  that  the  mixture  is  a  thick  broth.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  pour  into  tureen,  over  the 
toast.  Have  ready  the,  milk,  scalding  hot,  pour  it  over  the 
egg  slowly,  beating  hard,  and  add  to  the  soup  just  before  it 
goes  into  the  tureen,  but  after  it  has  been  removed  from  the 
fire.  —Marion  Harland. 

Oyster  Bisque. 

1  quart  oysters  Bunch  celery  tops 

2  cups  oyster  liquor  2  sprigs  parsley 

%  onion  \%  cups  fresh  bread  crumbs 

4  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Drain  oysters  and  wash.  Heat  liquor  and  strain,  add- 
ing enough  water  to  make  2  cups.  Chop  oysters  and  cook 
for  J^:  hour  with  the  liquor,  onion,  celery,  parsley,  salt |  and 
pepper.  Add  bread  crumbs  and  rub  all  together  through  wire 
sieve.  Add  milk,  scalded,  and  bind  with  the  butter  and  flour. 
If  necessary,  add  more  salt  and  pepper. 

Clam  Bisque. 

Make  according  to  recipe  for  oyster  bisque. 

Clam  and  Tomato  Bisque. 

Make  as  oyster  bisque,  using  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  omitting  2  cups  of  the  milk. 


38  WHATANDHOW 


Lobster  Bisque. 

To  the  meat  from  a  3  pound  lobster,  or  its  equivalent  in 
canned  lobster,  allow  2  pints  veal  stock;  boil  together  20  min- 
utes and  drain.  Selecting  the  most  tender  portions,  cut  into 
dice  and  reserve.  Chop  the  remainder  very  fine,  add  to  liquid, 
and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  1  cup  cream  and  return  to  fire; 
when  ready  to  boil,  bind  with  %  cup  butter  and  yi  cup  flour 
rubbed  together,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  diced 
meat,  and  coral,  if  any  is  found  in  the  lobster;  rub  it  through 
a  sieve. 

Grab  Bisque. 

Follow  directions  for  lobster  bisque. 

Clam  Chowder  I. 

1  quart  clams  1  cup  clam  juice 

2  onions  3  cups  water  and  tomato  juice 
5  cloves                                                  5  tomatoes,  or  >2  can 

2  tablespoons  carrots  diced  Salt  and  pepper 

Yz  bay  leaf 

Drain  clams,  wash  and  pick  over  carefully  to  remove 
pieces  of  shell  likely  to  be  attached.  Bring  clam  juice  to  the 
boiling  point,  strain  through  double  cheese  cloth,  add  to  the 
water  and  juice  from  tomatoes,  with  carrots  and  spices.  Put 
clams  and  onions  through  meat  chopper,  cut  tomatoes  into  small 
pieces  and  pour  over  the  juices.  Boil  all  together  until  carrots 
are  tender— about  20  minutes.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Remove  bay  leaf  and  cloves  before  serving. 

Clam  Chowder  II. 

1  quart  clams 

Drain  clams,  wash  well  and  remove  small  pieces  of  shell 
likely  to  be  attached  to  them.  Put  liquor  on  the  stove,  bring 
to  the  boil  and  strain  through  double  cheese  cloth.  Put  the 
clams  and  1  onion  through  meat  chopper  and  cook  in  the  liquor 
15  minutes.  Have  ready  2  cups  potatoes  cut  into  dice  and  boiled 
untii  tender  but  not  broken.  Add  these  to  the  clams  with  2 
cups  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  quart  of  milk, 
1  cup  crushed  crackers  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed 


SOUPS  39 


together,  and  add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  necessary.  Do  not 
add  too  much  thickening;  the  crackers  when  well  swelled  in 
the  chowder  sometimes  are  sufficient  without  the  flour,  in  which 
case  stir  in  1  tablespoon  butter.  Heat  the  crackers  before 
crushing;  stale  crackers  given  an  unpleasant  flavor. 

Black  Bean  Soup. 

Soak  2  cups  black  beans  over  night.  Drain,  add  2  quarts 
cold  water,  1  onion  sliced  and  fried  for  five  minutes  in  }4 
tablespoon  bacon  or  ham  drippings,  and  2  stalks  celery  cut 
into  pieces.  Simmer  4  hours,  or  until  beans  are  soft,  adding 
water  as  it  boils  away.  Rub  through  a  colander,  reheat  to 
boiling  point,  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne.  Bind  with  1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  tablespoon 
flour  cooked  together.  Chop  the  whites  of  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  add  when  ready  to  serve.  Pour  into  tureen  over  a 
lemon  sliced  very  thin.  Rub  the  hard  boiled  yolks  through 
a  fine  sieve  over  the  soup.  This  soup  is  better  the  second  day 
than  the  first. 

Split  Pea  Soup. 

One  cup  dried  split  peas  soaked  over  night.  Drain,  and 
simmer  for  4  hours  in  2}4  quarts  water  with  }4  an  onion. 
The  water  in  which  a  ham  has  been  boiled  gives  a  fine  flavor 
to  the  soup.  Rub  through  a  colander.  Reheat,  and  thicken 
with  \]4  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  smooth  with  1  tablespoon 
flour;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  1  pint  hot  milk  and 
serve. 

A  Summer  Soup. 

1  quart  tomatoes  measured  after  1  pint  chopped  cabbage 

peeling  and  cutting  up  2  cups  white  potatoes,  diced 

4  large  onions,  sliced  1  cup  sweet  potatoes,  diced 

6  large  ears  of  corn,  cut  from  cob  1  quart  okra,  sliced 
4  quarts  water 

Boil  all  together  for  2  hours,  or  until  thick;  add  2  table- 
spoons chopped  parsley,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

This  soup  may  be  strained  if  desired,  in  which  case  color 
with  kitchen  bouquet.     Serve  the  vegetables  separately.     If 


40  WHATANDHOW 


okra  is  not  used,  dumplings  may  be  dropped  in  twenty  minutes 
before  serving. 

Dumplings  for  Soups  and  Stews. 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  Milk  for  stiff  batter 

Salt 

Sift  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt.  Beat  eggs,  add  part  of 
the  milk  and  stir  into  the  flour.  Add  as  much  more  milk  as  is 
necessary  to  enable  you  to  drop  them  from  a  spoon  into  the 
soup.     Cover  quickly  and  cook  20  minutes. 

Cream  Soups 

Most  nourishing  of  all  soups,  on  account  of  the  milk 
used,  these  cannot  be  too  highly  recommended  for  use  at  the 
mid-day  meal,  or  family  dinner.  Served  with  bread  and  butter 
at  luncheon  they  provide  a  perfect  meal,  and  for  use  in  the 
convalescent's  diet  they  are  unequalled.  Patients  to  whom 
milk  is  distasteful,  will  take  it  in  this  form,  and  parents  will 
do  well  to  make  constant  use  of  these  cream  soups,  as  they 
provide  proper  food  conditions  for  a  growing  child  who  needs 
for  his  best  physical  as  well  as  mental  development  a  careful 
consideration  of  this  question  of  diet. 

Marion  Harland  says  that  a  curdled  cream  soup  is  a  cul- 
inary solecism.  Unless  carefully  prepared,  the  mixture  of 
milk  and  the  acids  in  most  vegetables  is  likely  to  curdle;  this 
may  be  avoided  by  the  use  of  a  pinch  of  soda  before  combin- 
ing. Do  not  combine  until  ready  to  serve,  always  put  the 
vegetable  mixture  into  the  milk  and  not  vice  versa,  and  do 
not  allow  the  milk  to  boil,  which  cannot  occur  in  a  double 
boiler. 

Cream  of  Tomato 

1  quart  milk  2  cups  tomatoes,  cut  small,  or 
K  onion  >4  can  tomatoes 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  sugar 
2  tablespoons  flour  %  bay  leaf 

K  teaspoon  salt  Pinch  of  soda 

Pepper 

Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  thicken  milk 
with   butter   and   flour   rubbed   together   and   cook   in   double 


SOUPS  41 


boiler  20  minutes,  stirrmg  until  it  is  smooth.  Simmer  tomatoes 
and  seasonings  20  minutes,  rub  through  sieve  and  stir  in  the 
soda.  Keep  the  two  mixtures  separate  until  ready  to  serve, 
then  pour  the  milk  into  tureen,  and  add  tomatoes. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup. 

2  cups  peas  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  quart  milk  \%  tablespoons  flour 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  peas  in  small  quantity  of  water,  when  tender 
drain,  saving  the  water,  which  add  to  the  milk  (there  should 
be  1  cup).  Rub  peas  through  a  wire  sieve  to  remove  skins,  add 
to  milk  and  bind  with  the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together. 

Cream  of  Spinach. 

This  makes  a  green  soup,  if  not  deep  enough  in  color  to 
look  well,  add  a  few  drops  green  coloring  extract. 

Boil  yi  peck  spinach  in  1  pint  water  until  it  is  tender. 
If  boiled  without  a  cover,  it  will  keep  its  bright  green  color. 
Drain,  chop  and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald  1  quart  milk, 
thicken  with  1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour 
cooked  together.  The  best  way  is  to  melt  the  butter  in  a 
sauce  pan,  add  the  flour,  rub  together  with  wire  whisk,  and 
add  the  milk.  Cook  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  add 
the  spinach,  which  should  be  a  soft  green  paste,  and  serve 
at  once.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Lettuce  can  be  used 
instead  of  spinach. 

Potato  Cream  Soup. 

Scald  1  quart  milk  with  2  slices  of  onion.  Remove  onion, 
and  stir  into  the  milk  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  smooth 
with  same  quantity  of  flour.  Stir  constantly  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Have  ready  six  large  potatoes  boiled,  mashed  and 
beaten  to  a  smooth  creamy  mass  with  1  cup  milk,  seasoned 
with  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  pinch  of  white  pepper.  Combine 
mixtures  and  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  parsley  chopped 
very  fine. 


42  WHATANDHOW 


Kornlet  Soup. 

One  onion  chopped  fine,  and  cooked  in  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter five  minutes.  Add  \}4  cups  kornlet  or  crushed  corn  and  4 
cups  water,  simmer  20  minutes  and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  1>^ 
tablespoons  butter,  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  2  tablespoons 
flour,  and  stir  until  boiling.  Have  ready  2  cups  milk  heated; 
pour  this  into  the  soup  with  y£  cup  cream,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Whip  to  a  stiff  froth,  1  cup  cream,  serve  a  spoonful  of 
this,  sprinkled  with  paprika,  on  each  plate.  This  quantity 
will  serve  10  people. 

Corn  Soup. 

Take  6  large  ears  of  corn.  Split  grains  and  scrape  from  the 
cobs.  Break  cobs  in  3  or  4  pieces  and  boil  }4  hour  in  enough 
water  to  cover,  strain.  There  should  be  2  cups  of  the  water 
Add  corn  pulp  and  cook  20  minutes.  Rub  through  a  wire  seive, 
add  2  cups  milk  and  bind  with  1  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  smooth 
with  1  tablespoon  butter.  The  pulp  should  go  through  the 
strainer. 

Cream  of  Mushroom. 

yi  pound  mushrooms,  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces.  Skin 
the  stems  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Put  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter into  a  sauce  pan,  add  mushrooms  and  cover  with  a  tight 
lid.  Cook  slowly  to  extract  the  juice.  When  mushrooms 
are  tender,  strain  and  press  through  a  wire  sieve  as  much  of 
the  mushroom  as  will  go  through.  If  there  are  any  button 
mushrooms  among  them  save  these  whole  to  serve  with  the 
soup,  but  cook  them  with  the  pieces  to  get  as  much  juice  as 
you  can  for  the  soup. 

Scald  1  cup  cream  with  2  slices  of  onion,  remove  onion 
and  add  mushroom  juice.  Return  to  fire,  preferably  in  dou- 
ble boiler,  and  add  about  2  cups  milk.  Do  not  lose  the  mush- 
room flavor  by  putting  in  too  much  milk.  Bind  with  1  table- 
spoon butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour  cooked  together  until 
smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  button  mush- 
rooms, or  failing  these,  some  of  the  small  pieces,  and  serve  a 


SOUPS  43 


spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each  plate  or  cup.  A  little 
sherry  is  an  improvement.  Save  all  the  pieces  that  will  not 
rub  through— they  are  a  fine  addition  to  gravies  or  minces. 

Purees. 

Purees  are  made  of  vegetables  cooked  soft  and  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  and  combined  with  thickened  milk  or  stock. 
They  are  thicker  than  cream  soups,  containing  a  larger  quan- 
tity of  the  vegetable.    Leftovers  are  always  available  for  purees. 

Puree  of  Cauliflower. 

Rub  through  a  sieve,  2  cups  cauliflower  boiled  and  broken 
into  pieces  before  measuring.  Scald  1  quart  milk  with  a  slice 
of  onion  and  a  bunch  of  celery  tops.  Strain,  or  remove  onion 
and  celery.  Thicken  with  \]4  tablespoons  butter  and  same 
of  flour  rubbed  together.  Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  cauliflower,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook 
5  minutes  longer.  If  desired,  purees  may  be  strained  again 
before  serving. 

Lima  beans,  peas,  mushrooms,  any  cooked  fish  remnants, 
and  chestnuts  may  be  used  for  purees,  following  directions 
given  above  for  cauliflower. 

Kornlet  Chowder. 

1  tablespoon  butter  4  green  peppers,  chopped 

4  onions,  sliced  2  cups  tomatoes 

1  can  kornlet  or  crushed  corn 

Brown  onions  in  butter  carefully  to  avoid  burning,  add 
other  ingredients  and  enough  water  to  cover.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cook  over  moderate  fire  for  1  hour,  adding 
water  when  necessary. 


44 


CHAPTER  IV 

FISH 

When  a  fish  is  perfectly  fresh,  the  gills  will  be  a  bright 
red  color  and  the  flesh  firm.  Purchase  from  a  reliable 
dealer,  as  stale  fish  is  poisonous.  If  not  sure  of  your  dealer, 
it  will  be  necessary  for  you  to  touch  the  fish  before  buying;  if 
the  flesh  seems  soft  and  flabby,  have  none  of  it.  A  sunken 
eye  is  another  evidence  that  the  fish  has  been  a  long  time 
out  of  the  water,  and  while  it  may  not  be  spoiled  or  unfit 
for  use,  the  flavor  that  is  so  pronounced  in  a  fresh  fish  will 
be  lacking.  Cold  storage  and  frozen  fish  are  to  be  avoided, 
unless  you  have  absolute  confidence  in  the  man  who  recom- 
mends them.  There  are  some  varieties  not  obtainable  in 
our  section  of  the  country  that  necessarily  come  to  us  frozen, 
notably  smelts,  but  these  are  exceptions,  and  being  cold  weather 
fish  are  perfectly  safe  to  use.  In  our  own  waters,  the  king  is  the 
shad,  in  season  from  the  latter  part  of  April  until  June  10, 
when  the  law  protects  him.  The  Southern  shad  come  earlier, 
the  Chesapeake  just  before,  but  there  is  nothing  comparable 
to  the  Delaware  shad  to  those  of  us  living  on  the  Delaware 
River.  This  is  only  because  the  fish  comes  to  us  fresh  caught 
each  day,  and  proves  my  assertion  made  above,  that  the  flavor 
of  a  fish  just  out  of  the  water  is  far  different  from  that  of  a 
fish  two  or  three  days  out. 

Next  to  the  shad  comes  our  bay  trout,  suitable  for  fry- 
ing, planking  or  boiling.  These  come  in  several  sizes;  use 
the  small  ones  to  fry,  the  larger  for  boiling,  etc.  Herring,  perch, 
butter  fish,  porgies,  etc.,  are  "near  by"  fish,  and  reach  us 
fresh,  while  for  cod,  halibut,  mackerel  and  haddock  we  de- 
pend upon  waters  not  so  close  at  hand.  Blue  fish  is  best  at 
the  seashore  where  it  is  caught  and  cooked  the  same  day, 
but  it  is  almost  as  good  in  our  markets;  it  makes  a  good  boiling 
fish,  as  does  also  sheepshead. 

Halibut  seems  expensive,  but  in  reality  is  not,  as  there  is 
no  waste,  practically,  in  a  slice  of  it.  It  is  a  very  dry  fish, 
unsuitable  for  frying,  unless  served  with  a  sauce,  but  pre- 
pared according  to  recipes  following  later  on,  is  unsurpassed. 


FISH  45 


Spanish  mackerel  is  one  of  our  best  winter  fish,  more 
expensive  than  most  of  the  others,  but  delicious  when  well 
broiled  or  planked.  Sea  bass  is  a  fine  boiling  or  baking  fish, 
but  is  expensive  for  frying  while  the  cheaper  fish  are  as  good 
for  that  purpose. 

Flounders  are  served  in  this  country  as  sole.  They  are 
not  the  same  fish  as  the  English  sole,  being  larger,  coarser 
and  of  different  flavor,  but  as  we  have  not  the  real  article  on 
this  side  of  the  Atlantic,  our  hotel  chefs  and  restaurateurs 
use  it  as  sole.  It  is  an  admirable  boiling  fish,  is  unrivalled 
for  fillets,  and  one  of  our  most  useful  winter  delicacies. 

Boiled  Codfish. 

Have  the  fish  cut  in  one  piece  weighing  from  2  to  3  pounds. 
Wash,  wrap  in  cheese  cloth  to  prevent  the  scum  from  settling 
upon  it,  and  also  to  make  it  convenient  to  lift  from  the  water, 
plunge  into  boiling  water  deep  enough  to  cover  it,  and  cook  20 
minutes  or  until  the  flesh  loosens  from  the  bones.  To  the  water, 
add  salt  to  season  the  fish,  and  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  to  1  pint 
water,  to  whiten  the  flesh.  If  vinegar  is  very  strong,  use  y& 
quantity.  Lemon  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  vinegar  if  pre- 
ferred. When  thoroughly  cooked,  remove  to  a  hot  platter  and 
serve  with  Egg  Sauce.  Have  the  fish  well  drained  so  that  there 
will  be  no  water  on  platter. 

Halibut,  salmon  and  any  sliced  fish  should  be  boiled  ac- 
cording to  above  recipe. 

Boiled  Salt  Cod. 

Take  1  pound  of  salt  cod  in  one  piece.  Soak  over  night, 
wash,  wrap  in  cheese  cloth  and  boil  for  25  minutes,  cooking  not 
too  rapidly.  A  gentle  boil  is  always  to  be  preferred  to  a  rapid 
boil.  Drain  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast  or  one  large  slice  cut 
lengthwise  of  a  loaf.  Cover  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce  heated, 
or  Sauce  Pifyuante. 

Fish  Boiled  Whole. 

A  fish  kettle  is  expensive,  and  not  likely  to  be  found 
among    the    average    kitchen    furnishings.      A    most   excellent 


46  WHATANDHOW 


substitute  is  found  in  a  deep  agate  roasting  pan,  which 
should  be  kept  for  this  purpose  only.  For  convenience  in 
removing  fish  from  pan,  use  2  strips  cotton  cloth  about  \yi  inches 
wide  and  long  enough  to  go  under  the  fish  and  project  on  each 
side.  By  means  of  these,  the  fish  may  readily  be  transferred 
to  its  waiting  platter.  Consult  time  table,  page  20,  for  length 
of  time  required  to  cook.     See  also  Chapter  on  Fish  Sauces. 

Baked  Fish. 

Shad,  bass,  trout,  haddock  and  blue  fish  are  our  best 
baking  fish.  They  may  be  stuffed  or  not  as  preferred.  The 
following  recipe  will  be  applicable  to  all: 

Baked  Fish,  Stuffed. 

When  buying  a  fish  to  stuff  and  bake,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  have  it  opened  in  front  and  not  split  up  the  back. 
Your  fish  dealer  will  always  prepare  the  fish  for  you  accord- 
ing to  the  way  in  which  you  desire  it  served,  so  do  not  fail 
to  tell  him,  when  you  order,  how  it  is  to  be  cooked.  A  4  pound 
fish  is  large  enough  for  6  people,  and  while  a  3  pound  fish  might 
be  too  much  for  half  as  many,  nothing  smaller  in  size  would 
be  suitable  for  baking,  and  the  remnants  can  be  made  most 
tempting  for  another  meal.  Some  recipes  for  these  dishes 
made  from  left-over  fish  will  be  found  in  Chapter  XVI. 

After  washing  the  fish  thoroughly,  rub  it  well  with  salt 
both  inside  and  out,  stuff  it,  using  one  of  the  recipes  below, 
put  into  the  pan  recommended  for  boiling  fish,  and  bake  it 
in  a  hot  oven.  Grease  the  pan  well  with  bacon  drippings 
if  you  have  it,  brush  the  fish  over  with  the  same  and  dredge 
with  flour.  Use  the  muslin  strips  to  lift  out  by,  keeping  enough 
liquid  in  the  pan  to  keep  them  from  burning.  To  obtain  this 
liquid,  melt  %  tablespoon  dripping  in  1  cup  hot  water,  baste 
liberally  with  this  every  10  minutes,  using  the  fat  in  the  pan 
after  you  have  used  the  water.  It  will  take  the  fish  about 
1  hour  to  bake;  the  heat  should  be  decreased  in  the  oven  after 
the^fish  browns  slightly.  Any  good  fish  sauce  may  be  served  with 
this,[preferably  Sauce  Piquante,  Hollandaise  or  an  Oyster  Sauce. 
Serve  white  sauces  with  boiled  fish,  dark  sauces  with  baked. 


FISH  47 


Fish  Stuffing  I. 

1  cup  fresh  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

rubbed  through  colander  1  tablespoon  chopped  pickles 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  and  use  for  stuffing  baked  fish. 
Fish  Stuffing  II. 

1  egg,  beaten  1  cup  oysters,  drained  and  chopped 

yi  cup  powdered  cracker  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

A  tablespoon  very  finely  chopped  red  sweet  pepper  is  a 
great  addition  to  this,  the  most  delicious  mixture  for  stuffing 
fish  of  which  I  have  knowledge.  If  a  moist  stuffing  is  pre- 
ferred, use  either  cream  or  oyster  liquor  enough  to  make  it 
quite  moist. 

Baked  Halibut  I. 

4  lbs.  halibut,  in  1  piece  2  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  or 

yi  cup  fat  salt  pork,  1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

cut  into  pieces  1  small  onion,  sliced 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pan,  just  large  enough  to  hold  the 
fish,  with  the  pork,  tomato  and  onion,  in  layers,  the  pork 
underneath.  Sprinkle  the  fish  on  both  sides,  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  lay  it  on  the  mixture.  Dredge  with  flour,  and 
pour  over  it  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Add  1  cup  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  bake  for  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  a  sauce,  made  by  rubbing  the  contents  of  the 
pan  (after  removing  the  fish)  through  a  wire  sieve,  thicken- 
ing it  if  necessary,  with  a  little  butter  and  flour  rubbed 
smooth.  Add  lemon  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  to  sea- 
son. It  depends  upon  the  heat  of  the  oven  whether  you  have 
much  or  little  sauce  remaining  in  the  pan,  but  if  directions 
be  carefully  followed  there  will  be  a  cup,  at  least,  liquid  re- 
maining, which  will  require  1  teaspoon  each  of  butter  and 
flour  to  bind  together.  If  necessary,  add  a  little  water  when 
you  baste,  which  should  be  four  times  during  baking.  Do 
not  allow  the  pork  and  vegetables  to  become  dry,  or  the  flavor 
of  the  fish  will  be  spoiled.  Serve,  with  sauce  poured  around 
it,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  parsley,  lemon  slices,  or  strips 
of  red  pepper.  The  recipe  is  applicable  to  any  fish,  either 
whole  or  sliced. 


48  WHATANDHOW 


Baked  Halibut  II. 

3  lbs.  halibut  in  1  piece  1  slice  onion 

2  cups  tomatoes  3  cloves 

1  cup  water  yi  tablespoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  sauce  by  simmering  tomatoes,  water,  onion  and 
seasoning  for  15  minutes,  rubbing  through  a  sieve  and  bind- 
ing with  the  butter  and  flour.  Cook  5  minutes.  Lay  the 
fish  in  a  baking  pan,  pour  half  the  sauce  around  it,  and  baste 
frequently  with  it.  Cover  the  pan  and  bake  }4  hour.  Serve 
on  a  hot  platter,  pour  the  remainder  of  the  sauce  around 
it  anid  garnish  the  dish  with  parsley  or  cress. 

Planked  Shad. 

Planks  for  this  purpose  are  to  be  found  in  the  stores, 
but  a  less  expensive  way  is  to  have  one  made  of  chestnut  or 
oak,  of  a  size  to  correspond  with  the  size  of  your  oven.  It 
should  be  two  inches  thick,  with  a  groove  cut  around  it,  about 
one  inch  from  the  edge;  this  catches  the  juices  and  prevents 
overflow.  Unless  your  oven  is  very  small,  a  plank  20  inches 
long  and  14  inches  wide  should  fit  in  it,  and  this  holds  a  fairly 
large  fish.  Before  laying  the  fish  on  it,  heat  the  plank  slightly, 
then  grease  it  well  with  any  good  dripping  and  heat  very  hot. 
Now  place  the  fish  on  it,  skin  side  down,  and  put  into  a  hot 
oven.  When  the  fish  begins  to  heat,  brush  over  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  return  to  oven  and  bake  for 
^2  hour,  or  until  fish  is  done  and  well  browned.  To  serve, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  a  tin  carrier  made  with  handles,  slip 
the  plank  upon  this,  and  send  to  the  table.  Garnish  the  plank 
with  green  and  dot  with  tiny  red  radishes,  or  arrange  a  border 
of  well  mashed  and  seasoned  potatoes,  allowing  them  to  brown 
while  the  fish  is  finishing  cooking.  Brush  potatoes  with  butter. 
With  a  pastry  bag,  the  potatoes  may  be  made  into  roses.  Any 
large  fish  may  be  planked  as  above. 

Do  not  wash  the  plank,  rub  it  clean  with  salt,  and  put 
away,  wrapped  in  paper.  When  the  plank  becomes  well 
charred,  it  has  increased  in  value,  and  the  older  and  blacker 
it  is  the  better  the  flavor  of  the  fish. 


FISH  49 


Shad  Roe. 

may  be  cooked  on  the  plank  with  the  fish  if  desired,  or  if  used 
for  another  meal,  fried,  baked,  creamed  or  in  croquettes.  See 
Chapter  XVI  on  Luncheon  and  Supper. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Shad  may  be  broiled  if  preferred,  but  not  fried,  as  the 
fish  is  very  oily,  and  therefore  not  adapted  to  the  frying  pan. 

Fried  Fish. 

The  smaller  fish  are  best  fried.  The  larger  ones  are 
filleted  and  fried.  Watch  your  dealer  fillet  a  flounder.  It 
will  be  quite  easy  to  do,  if  necessary,  after  once  seeing  it 
done,  and  is  an  accomplishment  that  should  be  acquired. 

To  fry  small  fish,  or  pan  fish,  as  they  are  called,  wipe 
dry  (of  course,  they  come  to  you  ready  to  cook),  roll  in  flour 
or  corn  meal,  which  has  been  salted,  set  on  the  ice  or  in  a  cold 
place  for  an  hour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  a  golden  brown. 
If  not  convenient  to  use  deep  fat,  they  must  be  turned  when 
cooked  on  one  side. 

Fried  Fish  Cutlets. 

Cut  trout  or  any  slender  fish,  into  slices  y&  inch  thick. 
Marinate  for  1  hour.  (See  Chapter  I.)  Dredge  both  sides 
with  salt  and  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  a  golden  brown. 
(See  rules  for  deep  fat  frying.)  Serve  on  a  mat  of  tissue  paper, 
fringed;  it  not  only  looks  well  but  absorbs  the  fat.  Let  the 
mat  heat  with  the  platter. 

Fried  Smelts 

Assuming  that  your  dealer  sends  the  fish  home  already 
cleaned,  I  have  given  no  directions  for  doing  it.  If,  how- 
ever, he  should  decline  to  clean  the  smelts,  ask  him  to  show 
you  how  to  do  it;  it  is  easily  done  when  you  once  see  it,  but 
not  so  easily  done  from  a  description  of  the  process.  But, 
make  the  effort  to  have  it  done  before  the  fish  are  sent  home. 
Crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  remembering  not  to  have  the  fat 


50  WHATANDHOW 


too  hot,  in  which  case  they  would  be  too  crisp  before  they 
could  cook  through.  Read  carefully  directions  for  frying. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Tartare,  sections  of  lemon,  or  Parsley  Butter. 

Stuffed  Smelts. 

For  this  select  large  fish  and  all  of  the  same  size.  For 
12  of  these,  make  a  stuffing  as  follows:  Cook  yi  tablespoon 
chopped  onion  in  ]4  tablespoon  butter,  for  5  minutes.  Do 
not  allow  the  onion  to  brown.  Chop  6  oysters,  discarding 
the  hard  portion,  3  large  mushrooms,  or  the  equivalent  in 
canned  stems  and  ends,  and  add  to  butter.  Stir  in  1  teaspoon 
flour  and  mix.  Add  2  tablespoons  milk  and  cook  3  minutes. 
Add  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Wipe  the  smelts  dry,  stuff, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  over  with  lemon 
juice.  Bake  in  an  enameled  pie  plate  or  a  flat  dish.  These 
may  also  be  covered  with  buttered  crumbs  if  desired.  It 
adds  to  the  appearance  as  well  as  to  the  delicacy  of  the  dish. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Tartare,  sections  of  lemon,  or  Parsley  Butter. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs. 

The  crabs  will  probably  be  sent  you  from  the  fish 
store  already  cleaned;  if  not,  fold  back  the  wings  found  on 
each  side  of  the  back  shell,  and  remove  the  spongy  substance 
found  underneath  them;  then  trim  off  the  apron  at  the  lower 
part  of  under  shell.  Wash  crabs,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb, 
fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  soft  paper.  Or  they  may  be 
fried  in  small  quantity  of  dripping  without  crumbing. 
Season  the  egg  in  which  they  are  dipped,  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  or  sprinkle  it  upon  the  crab.  If  you  must  clean  them 
yourself,  dip  for  a  moment  into  boiling  water  to  kill  them. 
Like  the  broiled  lobster,  this  is  supposed  to  injure  the  flavor. 
It  is  however,  more  humane. 

Fillets  of  Flounder. 

Cut  fillets  into  slices,  3  inches  long,  2  inches  wide;  roll 
up  and  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Dip  each  rolled 
fillet   into   beaten   egg   and   fine   crumbs,   set   aside   in   a   cold 


F  IS  H  51 


place  for  one  hour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  Sauce 
Tartare. 

These  fillets  are  improved  by  marinating,  though  it  is 
not  necessary. 

Fried  Fillets  of  Fish. 

Almost  any  large  or  medium  sized  fish  is  readily  filleted 
(which  removes  the  bones),  and  may  be  fried  according  to 
directions  already  given  for  frying  fish.  Of  course,  this  does 
not  apply  to  bony  fish,  such  as  shad  or  bass,  where  the  small 
bones  are  so  numerous  and  well  distributed  through  the 
flesh.  Flounder  fillets  are  very  good,  fried  whole,  and  served 
with  a  fish  sauce.  Lay  1  fillet  on  top  of  the  other  to  serve. 
It  gives  the  appearance  of  a  whole  fish. 

Halibut  Creole. 

2  lbs.  halibut  1  slice  of  onion 

2  cups  tomatoes  3  cloves 

1  cup  water  yi  tablespoon  sugar 

Boil  tomatoes,  water  and  seasoning  for  twenty  minutes, 
add  \%  tablespoons  butter,  \j4  tablespoons  flour,  rubbed 
smooth  together,  add  j4  teaspoon  salt,  and  dash  of  pepper; 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  fish  into  a  greased  baking  pan, 
and  pour  around  it  half  of  the  sauce,  bake  thirty-five  minutes, 
basting  often,  with  the  sauce.  Remove  to  hot  platter,  lay 
on  top  of  fish  strips  of  pimento,  pour  around  it  the  rest  of  the 
sauce,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Moulded  Fish. 

Two  pounds  fresh  cod  or  halibut,  chopped  fine;  you  need 
\}4  cups.  With  a  wooden  pestle,  pound  in  a  chopping  bowl, 
adding  gradually  the  whites  of  %  eggs  slightly  beaten,  add 
1*4  cups  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  well 
buttered  fish  mould,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm,  about  a  half  hour.  The 
water  in  pan  should  be  boiling,  when  mould  is  put  in,  but 
should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  while  baking.  Turn  out  on  hot 
platter,  and  serve  with  a  fish  sauce. 


52  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Salmon  Loaf. 

1  can  salmon  K  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  butter 

Beat  eggs,  add  crumbs  and  then  salmon  and  butter 
rubbed  smooth  together.  Mix  thoroughly,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  parsley  minced.  Put  into  but- 
tered mould,  cover  with  paper,  place  in  pan  of  boiling  water, 
and  steam  in  oven  for  1  hour.  Serve  turned  out  on  platter, 
and  pour  over  it, 

Sauce. 

Mix  1  teaspoon  corn  starch  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
water,  stir  into  1  cup  boiling  hot  milk,  add  liquor  from  sal- 
mon, 1  tablespoon  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until 
thick,  cooking  two  minutes.  Beat  in  one  egg  and  cook  one 
minute  longer.  Keep  hot  in  double  boiler  without  cooking 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Two  cups  shredded  codfish,  washed  thoroughly  and 
squeezed  dry,  1  cup  mashed  potato,  }4  cup  White  Sauce,  with 
an  egg  beaten  in.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  well 
mixed,  make  into  balls,  egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Creamed  Codfish. 

Make  1  cup  of  White  Sauce;  wash  and  drain  dry,  1  cup 
shredded  codfish,  add  to  the  white  sauce,  and  if  too  thick 
add  a  little  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on 
toast. 

Codfish  Souffle. 

Wash  1  cup  shredded  codfish  in  several  waters.  It  is 
much  better  to  wash  out  all- the  salt  in  which  it  is  preserved, 
and  add  seasoning  afterward.  Squeeze  out  the  water,  have 
it  as  dry  as  possible.  Mix  with  1  cup  potato  mashed  and 
free  from  lumps.  Add  1  cup  White  Sauce  and  beat  until 
light.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  buttered  bake 
dish,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  and  brown  in  oven. 
The  mixture  may  be  served  in  potato  shells  or  ramekins  for 
individual  service. 


FISH  53 


Beauregard  Cod. 

To  1  pound  fresh  cod  boiled  allow  2  cups  White  Sauce. 
Let  the  fish  be  very  cold,  flake  it  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  all  together  5  minutes.  Boil  3 
eggs  for  20  minutes  and  cool  in  cold  water.  Remove  shells, 
chop  whites  very  fine  with  a  silver  knife",  and  rub  the  yolks 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Pour  the  hot  fish  mixture  over  slices 
of  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  the  powdered  yolks,  and  ar- 
range the  chopped  whites  in  little  mounds  over  the  entire  sur- 
face. A  good  way  to  use  remnants  of  boiled  fish,  cod,  haddock 
or  halibut,  and  allow  sauce  according  to  the  amount  of  fish. 

Fish  Scallop. 

1  cup  cold  cooked  fish  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cold  cooked  macaroni  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  cup  White  Sauce 

14.  cup  tomatoes,  stewed  and 
strained 

Cut  macaroni  into  small  bits  (here  you  will  find  the  kitchen 
scissors  useful)  add  tomatoes  to  the  White  Sauce  and  heat 
to  boiling  point.  Add  seasoning  and  fish,  turn  into  buttered 
baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  covered 
>2  hour,  uncover  and  brown. 


Creamed  Codfish  in  Ramekins. 

Wash  and  drain  dry  a  box  of  shredded  codfish.  Mix  with 
1  cup  White  Sauce  and  put  into  buttered  ramekins.  Drop  an 
egg  on  each  one,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  cook  in 
oven  long  enough  to  set  the  egg.  Season  the  sauce  and  the 
egg  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 


Boiled  Salmon,  Egg  Sauce. 

1  can  salmon  steak,  boiled  15  1  cup  Egg  Sauce 

minutes,  in  the  can 

After  boiling,  open  can,  drain  off  liquid  and  turn  fish  out 
on  a  hot  platter.  Pour  over  it  the  egg  sauce  and  garnish  with 
parsley  sprigs,  or  cress. 


54  WHATANDHOW 


Egg  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  White  Sauce,  add  >^  teaspoon  kitchen  bou- 
quet and  yi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Chop  a  hard 
boiled  egg  in  small  pieces  and  stir  into  sauce.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Salmon  Cutlets. 

1  can  salmon  Mashed  potatoes 

Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  salmon  and  potato  in  equal  quantities;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  shape  into  cutlets.  (See  Chapter  I.)  Egg 
and  crumb,  chill  and  fry  as  croquettes. 

Creamed  Fish  Flakes. 

Any  remants  of  cooked  fish  may  be  flaked  and  heated  in 
white  sauce.     Do  not  allow  it  to  cook  after  thoroughly  heated. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

Soak  fish  over  night.  In  the  morning  wash  and  put  over 
the  fire  in  hot  water  to  cover.  Let  it  simmer  gently  until 
tender,  which  will  be  in  about  half  hour.  Add  to  the  water 
^  tablespoon  vinegar.  It  will  hasten  the  tendering  process. 
Drain,  serve  on  a  hot  platter  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  (very 
little)  and  pepper.  Cut  >2  lemon  in  4  pieces  and  serve  a  piece 
on  each  plate. 

Creamed  Salt  Mackerel. 

Flake  the  pieces  of  left  over  boiled  mackerel,  mix  with 
White  Sauce,  and  serve  hot  on  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley. 

Finnan  Haddie. 

Finnan  haddie  is  smoked  haddock  with  a  Scotch  name. 
Wash  the  fish  thoroughly,  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water, 
put  over  the  fire  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  cook 
for  5  minutes.  Drain,  wipe  dry,  rub  well  with  butter  and 
lemon  juice,  lay  on  a  flat  baking  dish  and  bake  in  the  hottest 
part  of  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  If  you  have  a  gas  range, 
put  it  under  the  oven  lights  until  it  is  crisp  and  brown. 


FISH  55 


Smoked  Salmon. 

may  be  treated  as  Finnan  Haddie,  simmering  it  for  20  min- 
utes before  putting  into  the  oven.  Sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Smoked  White  Fish. 

Wash  the  fish  thoroughly,  using  a  brush.  Simmer  in 
water  to  cover,  until  tender,  about  15  minutes.  Drain,  and 
serve  covered  with  Egg  Sauce. 

Smoked  Shad. 

Prepare  and  serve  according  to  preceding  recipe.  There 
is  no  better  luncheon  for  a  cold  winter  day,  than  these 
smoked  fish,  served  with  baked  potatoes. 


SHELL  FISH. 

Oyster  Stew. 

Drain  oysters  and  wash  thoroughly.  Melt  2  tablespoons 
butter  in  sauce  pan.  When  bubbling,  rub  in  1  tablespoon 
flour,  and  when  smooth  2  cups  milk.  Heat  liquor  and  strain 
through  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth.  Cook  oysters  in 
this  until  they  ruffle.  Add  the  sauce  to  the  oysters  and  cook 
all  together  until  oysters  are  done,  when  stir  in  another  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Avoid 
toughening  oysters  through  cooking  too  long.  This  recipe 
is  for  1  quart  oysters. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

1  quart  oysters  3  cups  Thick  White  Sauce 

Wash  and  drain  the  oysters.  Heat  them  in  a  sauce  pan, 
to  draw  out  the  liquor  which  would  make  the  sauce  thin. 
Drain  and  drop  into  the  sauce  and  finish  cooking.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and 
color  with  kitchen  bouquet.  The  sauce  should  be  thick  and 
cream  color. 


56  WHATANDHOW 


Oyster  Croustade. 

Wash  1  quart  oysters,  and  drain.  In  a  double  boiler 
heat  1  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 
rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  until 
smooth  and  let  it  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
Rub  through  a  colander  1>£  cups  bread  crumbs,  and  brown 
in  a  hot  pan  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Put  a  layer  of 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bake  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  oysters  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  Season  sauce  with 
salt  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Put  a  layer  of  sauce  over  oysters, 
and  repeat  until  dish  is  full,  having  top  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake 
in  hot  oven.  In  choosing  a  baking  pan  for  this  croustade,  select 
one  not  too  deep— two  layers  or  at  most  three  of  oysters  will 
make  the  best  croustade. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Drain  and  wash  1  quart  oysters.  Butter  a  shallow  bak- 
ing dish.  Cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  fine  bread  crumbs 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dotted  with  butter.  Put 
upon  this  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  with  the  crumbs  and  butter,  add  another  layer  of  oys- 
ters seasoned  as  before.  Mix  two  tablespoons  oyster  liquor, 
heated  and  strained  through  double  cheese  cloth,  with  2  table- 
spoons of  milk  and  pour  over  oysters.  Cover  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs,  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  hot  oven;  covered 
closely  for  15  minutes  and  uncovered  to  brown  for  5  minutes. 

Roast  Oysters. 

These  are  a  rare  treat  when  properly  prepared;  avoid 
cooking  too  long.  Have  required  number  of  oysters  sent 
home  in  the  shell.  Scrub  thoroughly  and  let  stand  until  dry. 
Have  oven  very  hot,  also  top  of  stove.  It  will  not  be  pos- 
sible to  keep  the  supply  equal  to  the  demand  without  using 
both.  Place  a  tin  sheet  over  the  stove  and  lay  oysters  upon 
it.  Fill  both  racks  in  oven.  When  shells  open,  the  oysters 
are  done.  To  serve,  put  at  each  plate,  a  folded  newspaper, 
on  top  of  this  a  coarse  towel.  This  is  to  open  the  shells  upon. 
Have    a   bucket   between   every   two   persons   to   hold   empty 


FISH  57 


shells.  Furnish  eacli  person  with  a  very  hot  plate  and  an 
oyster  opener,  which  can  be  procured  at  any  hardware  store. 
Have  on  the  table,  plenty  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  horse 
radish  and  pickles,  together  with  crackers  or  sandwiches.  Serve 
also  baked  potatoes  or  potato  salad,  and  coffee.  Bring  in 
oysters  a  dish  full  at  a  time,  serving  them  frequently  and  very 
hot. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Oysters  m,ay  be  pan  broiled,  a  method  much  less  trouble- 
some than  with  a  broiler  over  the  fire,  and  with  results 
quite  as  satisfactory.  Wash,  drain  and  wipe  dry  every  oyster. 
This  may  be  easily  done  by  spreading  out  on  a  towel 
after  draining  as  dry  as  possible  in  a  colander.  Spread  an- 
other towel  over  them  and  pat  until  dry.  Have  pan  very 
hot,  and  the  bottom  of  it  just  covered  with  melted  butter. 
Put  oysters  in  one  at  a  time  as  for  frying — until  as  many 
as  the  pan  will  hold  in  one  layer  are  in.  When  brown  on 
one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  other.  Remove  from  pan  as 
soon  as  done,  and  put  into  hot  dish.  Have  sauce  ready  pre- 
pared as  follows:  For  1  quart  oysters,  melt  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter and  let  it  brown,  but  not  burn.  Rub  in  1  tablespoon  flour, 
a  little  at  a  time  to  let  it  brown  in  the  butter.  Stir  in  1  cup 
of  milk  and  oyster  liquor  in  equal  parts,  the  liquor  to  be 
strained  first  through  double  cheese  cloth.  Cook  until  per- 
fectly smooth,  add  %  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet,  %  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  oysters  on  rounds 
of  toast  with  sauce  poured  over  them. 

Panned  Oysters. 

Do  not  try  to  pan  too  many  oysters  at  once.  For  1 
quart  allow  1  tablespoon  butter,  heat  it,  turn  in  the  oysters, 
sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  until  they  curl. 
They  are  done  when  they  cease  to  feel  slimy.  Too  much 
cooking  toughens  them.  Use  a  shallow  pan,  to  avoid  hav- 
ing the  oysters  too  deep;  when  there  are  too  many  in  a  pan 
some  of  them  will  be  under  done  while  the  rest  will  be 
tough.     Cook  in  two  lots  if  more  than  1  quart  is  desired. 


58  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Oyster  Patties. 

Make  patties  according  to  recipe  given  for  Puff 
Paste.  For  the  filling,  make  a  rich  white  sauce  (adding 
more  butter),  drain  the  oysters,  heat,  drain  again  and  drop 
into  the  sauce.  Cook  until  they  curl  or  ruffle,  season  well 
with  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Allow 
4  or  5  oysters  to  each  patty.  Patties  can  be  purchased  for 
comparatively  little  if  not  convenient  to  make  them  at  home, 
when  the  oysters  may  be  cooked  and  placed  in  them. 

Oyster  Cocktails. 

Allow  5  small  oysters  to  each  person.  Mix  together  1 
tablespoon  tomato  catsup,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  yi  table- 
spoon grated  horse  radish,  6  drops  tobasco  sauce,  ]A.  table- 
spoon vinegar,  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  %  tea- 
spoon salt.  Put  on  the  ice  for  an  hour  and  pour  over  the 
oysters  arranged  in  cocktail  glasses. 

Clam  Cocktails. 

may  be  made  by  preceding  recipe;  if  clams  are  large,  cut 
into  pieces,  but  if  possible,  procure  Little  Necks  and  serve 
them  whole. 

Oysters  and  Clams. 

served  raw  must  be  icy  cold  served  on  the  half  shell  with  sec- 
tions of  lemon.  Or,  on  a  bed  of  crushed  ice,  arrange  the  shells 
around  a  tiny  cup  containing  cocktail  mixture,  into  which 
the  oysters  or  clams  may  be  dipped. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Select  large  plump  oysters,  wash  and  dry  between  2 
towels,  patting  them  until  dry.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, dip  in  flour,  egg  and  crumb,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  for 
at  least  an  hour.  Fry  in  fat  deep  enough  to  cover  them,  and 
tested  according  to  rule  for  deep  fat  frying.  Drain  on  soft 
paper  and  serve  on  tissue  paper  mat;  garnish  with  parsley. 
Serve  with  pepper  hash. 


FISH  .59 


Clams. 

Clams  are  more  economical  and  certainly  they  are  cleaner, 
when  yon  open  them  yourself.  This  is  easily  accomplished. 
Follow  directions  for  Steamed  Clams,  using  as  little  water  as 
possible.  There  must  be  enough  to  keep  plenty  of  steam.  Save 
all  juice  and  the  water  in  which  they  were  steamed.  If  opened 
at  home  according  to  these  directions  you  will  not  need  to 
heat  and  strain  the  juice  as  directed  in  all  clam  recipes. 

Steamed  Clams. 

Scrub  shells  through  several  waters,  and  put  into  a  large 
kettle  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  it. 
Cover  closely  and  let  clams  steam  until  shells  begin  to  open. 
Serve  at  once. 

Scalloped  Clams  I. 

1  quart  clams  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  White  Sauce  1  cup  buttered  crumbs 

Wash  clams  and  put  through  the  meat  chopper.  Put  on 
the  stove  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  drain  off  superfluous 
liquor.  Mix  with  White  Sauce,  season,  and  bake,  covered 
with  buttered  crumbs,  in  ramekins  or  clam  shells,  15  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven. 

Scalloped  Clams  II. 

Proceed  as  above,  adding  to  the  white  sauce  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  ]/$  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Devilled  Scallops. 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  buttered  crumbs 

1  qt.  scallops,  cut  into  pieces  A  pinch  mustard 

Salt  and  paprika 

Wash  and  drain  the  scallops;  heat  to  the  boiling  point. 
Drain  and  save  the  liquor.  Rub  the  mustard  into  the  butter, 
add  seasonings  and  ^2  cup  of  the  liquor.  Mix  with  the  scal- 
lops, put  into  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes.  If  there  is  more  than  the  re- 
quired ^  cup  of  the  liquor,  use  it  to  baste  with,  at  the  end 
of  the  first  10  minutes. 


60  WHATANDHOW 


Fried  Scallops. 

Scallops  may  be  fried  following  directions  for  Fried  Oysters, 
after  washing  and  boiling  them  5  minutes.  Drain  dry  before 
egging  and  crumbing. 

To  Open  a  Lobster. 

When  buying  a  boiled  lobster,  straighten  out  the  tail; 
if  it  springs  back  into  place,  the  lobster  was  alive  when 
boiled,  which,  of  course,  he  should  have  been.  The  best 
way  is  to  know  your  dealer  and  take  his  word  for  fish,  lobsters, 
crabs,  etc. 

Take  off  claws  and  separate  tail  from  body.  To  remove 
meat  in  one  piece  from  tail,  cut  the  shell  with  a  pair  of  scis- 
sors, unless  shell  is  too  hard,  in  which  case,  try  the  can  opener. 
Remove  the  intestine  from  the  centre  of  tail  meat.  Draw  the 
body  from  the  shell,  holding  latter  in  left  hand.  This  process 
will  leave  the  stomach  or  "lady"  in  the  shell.  Also  the  liver. 
On  the  sides  of  the  body  you  will  find  the  lungs,  discard  these. 
The  unedible  part  of  the  lobster  are  the  intestinal  vein,  the 
stomach  and  the  lungs.  Take  all  the  meat  from  the  bones  in 
the  body,  breaking  the  latter  in  half  to  make  it  easier  to  get 
the  meat.  Break  the  claw  shells  with  a  hammer,  but  try  to 
get  the  meat  whole.  Use  small  claws  for  garnishing.  Much 
trouble  is  avoided  by  ordering  the  meat  already  picked,  pro- 
vided you  deal  with  a  reliable  man  who  will  not  send  you  stale 
lobster.  However,  the  operation  of  opening  a  lobster  is  more 
simple  than  it  sounds,  and  every  one  should  know  how,  even 
though  she  may  not  care  to  do  it. 

Lobster,  Broiled  Whole. 

I  rather  hesitate  to  describe  the  process  of  preparing  the 
lobster  for  this  dish,  though  we  are  told  that  it  is  positively 
painless  to  the  victim.  Personally,  I  decline  to  do  it,  failing 
to  see  that  the  flavor  is  injured  by  plunging  the  lobster  into 
boiling  water  long  enough  to  kill  him.  At  least  this  method 
has  this  advantage;  you  can  cover  up  the  pot  and  do  not  see 
him  die.  For  the  benefit  of  those  who  have  no  qualms 
against  the  prescribed  method,  I  give  it  here.     Cut  the  tail 


FISH  61 


off  just  where  it  joins  the  body,  and  with  one  stroke,  divide 
the  body  lengthwise  into  two  equal  parts.  Remove  the  one 
long  intestine  and  the  stomach,  reserve  the  coral.  Put  into 
a  buttered  broiler,  split  side  down,  and  broil.  When  juices 
begin  to  flow  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  return  to 
the  fire,  turning  frequently  to  keep  in  the  juices.  Cook 
about  10  minutes  on  the  split  side  and  8  minutes  on  the 
other.  This  is  just  as  Marion  Harland  directs.  With  all 
due  deference  to  her  superior  judgment,  I  kill  the  lobster 
before  I  attempt  to  cut  him  open,  by  dropping  him  for  5 
minutes  into  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water,  clapping  on  the 
lid  at  once.  Then  proceed  as  directed.  The  claws  should 
be  cracked,  the  meat  removed  in  one  piece  and  broiled. 

Have  ready  2  tablespoons  butter,  rubbed  to  a  cream, 
with  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley,  and  seasoned  with  lemon 
juice;  to  this  add  the  coral,  boiled  and  rubbed  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Brush  the  hot  lobster  over  with  this  mixture  and  serve 
at  once. 

Baked  Lobster. 

After  preparing  as  described  above,  brush  generously 
with  melted  butter  and  bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes.  This 
is  much  less  trouble  than  broiling  and  quite  as  good,  if 
method  of  cooking  is  not  explained  when  "broiled  lobster" 
is  served.  Put  under  the  oven  flame  in  the  gas  stove,  or  in 
the  hottest  part  of  the  coal  range  oven. 


Fried  Lobster. 

Divide  meat  of  a  boiled  lobster  into  convenient  sized 
pieces,  the  larger  the  better,  but  they  must  be  uniform. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  crumb,  egg  and 
crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Remember  that  all  material  to 
be  fried  is  improved  by  standing  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour, 
after  crumbing.    Serve  with  a  good  sauce. 


62  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Lobster  Farci. 

1  cup  chopped  lobster  meat  A  grating  of  nutmeg 

Yolks  2  hard  boiled  eggs  }/$  cup  buttered  crumbs 

yi  tablespoon  minced  parsley  Salt 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce  Pepper 

Add  yolks  of  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste,  to  lobster  meat, 
also  the  sauce  and  seasoning.  Fill  the  lobster  shells,  cover 
with  crumbs,  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 


Scalloped  Lobster. 

2  cups  lobster  meat,  cut  into  Beaten  yolks  2  eggs 

small  dice  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

1  cup  White  Sauce  Juice  of  yi  large  lemon 

Salt  and  pepper 

When  the  white  sauce  cools,  add  the  eggs  and  lobster, 
the  parsley  and  lemon  juice,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Fill  the  lobster  shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
sprinkle  with  paprika  and  bake  until  brown.  This  should  serve 
10  people  if  used  in  course  dinner  or  at  luncheon. 

Lobster  Cream. 

lyi  cups  boiled  lobster  meat  >£  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

cut  into  small  pieces  3  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  cream  Dash  of  cayenne,  same  of  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt 

Melt  butter,  add  mustard,  salt  and  cream.     Soak  crumbs 
in   the   milk   and   add   to   the   mixture,   cooking  all  together 
until  smooth.     Add  lobster  and  coral,  and  lastly,  the  beaten 
egg.— "The  Hostess  of  To-day.', 

Lobster  Cutlets. 

2  cups  chopped  lobster  meat,  yi  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
freshly  boiled  1  cup  thick  White  Sauce 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  Dash  of  cayenne,  3  gratings  nutmeg, 

Yolk  1  egg  Salt 

To  the  white  sauce,  which  must  be  made  according  to 
recipe  for  Thick  White  Sauce,  add  all  the  other  ingredients 
in  the  order  given,  cool  and  shape  as  cutlets.  Egg  and 
crumb,   set  in   a  cold  place   an   hour  or  two  to  harden,   and 


FISH  63 


fry  as  croquettes.    Insert  a  small  claw  in  one  end  of  each  cutlet, 
and  serve  on  a  bed  of  parsley  or  cress.  —Miss  Farmar. 

To  Boil  Grabs. 

For  1  dozen  Crabs  add  to  the  water  l/2  cup  salt,  l/2  cup 
vinegar  and  2  teaspoons  cayenne. 

Devilled  Grabs  I. 

1  dozen  boiled  crabs  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  mustard  J4  lb.  butter 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  Dash  of  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  and  add  milk.  Mix  mustard  with  a  little  of  the 
vinegar,  add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  the  rest  of  the  vinegar. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  with  milk  and  eggs.  When  thick  remove 
from  fire  and  cool.  Mix  with  crab  meat,  fill  crab  shells  and 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Brown  in  hot  oven  or  under  gas 
flame. 

Devilled  Crabs  II. 

12  freshly  boiled  crabs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  Salt  and  cayenne 

Worcestershire  sauce 

Pick  meat  carefully  from  shells,  do  not  break  the  latter. 
Cut  meat  into  neat  pieces,  mix  with  butter  and  seasonings.  Use 
Worcestershire  Sauce  very  cautiously — it  is  a  matter  of  taste 
and  too  much  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  your  crabs.  This  caution 
applies  as  well  to  cayenne.  Fill  shells  with  mixture  and  follow 
directions  for  Devilled  Crabs  I. 

Devilled  Crabs  III. 

1  cup  White  Sauce  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  of  crab  meat,  chopped  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  yi  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

When  the  white  sauce  is  slightly  cooled,  add  the  slightly 
beaten  egg  yolks,  onion  and  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with 
crab  meat,  and  cook  3  minutes;  add  parsley.  Return  to 
shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 
Or,  plunge  into  deep  fat  and  fry. 


64  WHAT    AND    HOW 


CHAPTER  V 

BEEF. 

Select  beef  with  firm  cream  colored  fat  and  fine  grain. 
Avoid  that  with  bright  yellow  fat  and  coarse  grain.  It  is 
inferior  and  probably  unwholesome.  The  choice  cuts  for 
roasting  are  the  ribs,  the  chuck  (first  cut),  and  the  pinbone, 
The  chuck  is  juicy  and  tender,  but  is  only  desirable  when  the 
cut  is  from  the  end  nearest  the  ribs.  The  pinbone  is  the  most 
economical  for  small  families;  the  end  with  the  bone  in  is  the 
tender  end  and  best  for  roasting,  while  the  tougher  end  with- 
out whiqh  you  cannot  buy  the  pinbone,  may  be  cut  off  and 
served  for  another  meal,  either  as  a  stew,  braised  beef,  or 
Hamburg  steak.  Allow  ten  minutes  to  the  pound  for  roast- 
ing rare,  twelve  minutes  if  liked  well  done.  The  oven  should 
be  very  hot  at  first,  to  sear  the  meat  and  thus  hold  in  the 
juice,  the  heat  may  be  decreased  afterwards.  It  is  a  fatal 
mistake  to  put  a  roast  of  any  kind  into  a  cool  oven,  the  re- 
sult will  be  a  dry  and  tasteless  piece  of  meat.  Long  slow 
cooking  draws  out  the  juice  and  is  never  to  be  used  with  roasting 
meat. 

No  meat  fibre  can  resist  long  and  slow  cooking,  the 
choice  and  expensive  cuts  of  beef  and  lamb  may  be  roasted 
and  baked,  the  cheaper  ones  must  be  braised,  stewed  or 
boiled.  To  braise  meat,  a  double  pan  is  necessary.  The 
meat  must  be  seared  first  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  small  quantity 
of  dripping,  turning  it  so  that  every  exposed  surface  is  cica- 
trized to  close  the  pores  and  prevent  the  escape  of  juices. 
Then  place  it  on  a  trivet,  or  failing  a  regular  braising  pan 
which  will  have  a  trivet,  use  anything  that  will  keep  the 
meat  raised  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  then  follow  recipe 
given  below. 

For  roasting  lamb,  allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound, 
veal  and  pork  at  least  twenty  or  more.  These  latter  require 
very  thorough  cooking  to  be  palatable  and  wholesome. 

Always  remove  paper  from  meat  as  soon  as  it  comes  from 
the  market.  It  absorbs  the  juices  and  adheres  to  the  meat 
if  allowed  to  remain.     Do  not  wash  meat,  unless  absolutely 


BEEF  65 


necessary;  but  wipe  thoroughly  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth 
dipped  in  vinegar  and  water. 

Remember  that  the  less  expensive  cuts  of  meat  contain 
the  mos*t  nutriment.  Between  the  ribs  of  beef  and  the  round 
the  difference  in  proteids  is  over  5  per  cent,  in  favor  of  the 
round,  while  the  refuse,  bones,  etc.,  from  the  latter  is  12  per 
cent,  less,  so  that  not  only  is  the  price  per  pound  less,  but  the 
loss  in  cooking  smaller  and  the  nutriment  greater.  In  veal 
mutton  and  lamb  the  same  applies,  and  while  we  may  not 
altogether  discard  the  more  dainty  portions,  as  they  are  bet- 
ter flavored  perhaps,  as  well  as  more  tender,  we  can  exercise 
a  judicious  care  in  their  selection,  and  maintain  a  variety  by 
their  occasional  use. 

Roast  Beef. 

Wipe  carefully  and  place  in  baking  pan.  Rub  lightly 
with  salt,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  dredge  well  with  flour; 
this  should  form  a  crust  to  retain  juices.  Dredge  the  pan 
also  with  flour.  Select  pan  according  to  the  size  of  your  roast, 
using  one  no  larger  than  necessary  to  hold  it.  A  very  small 
quantity  of  water  may  be  added  to  the  pan  to  keep  flour  from 
burning  before  the  fat  melts  and  flows  into  the  pan,  but  be 
careful  in  the  use  of  this,  as  too  much  water  will  cause  your 
roast  to  steam  instead  of  bake.  Baste  every  10  minutes  to 
ensure  a  juicy  slice  when  cut.  Read  directions  at  beginning 
of  this  chapter  for  temperature  of  oven  and  time  for  roasting. 

Braised  Beef. 

3  lbs.  from  lower  round  %  cup  each  of  onion,  carrot,  tur- 

2  thin  slices  fat  pork  nip  and  celery,  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper 

Place  meat  upon  trivet  after  searing  it  according  to  di- 
rections given,  place  vegetables  around  it  and  pour  over  all 
3  cups  boiling  water.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cover  closely.  Cook  in  an  oven  just  hot  enough  to  keep  the 
water  at  boiling  point  without  actually  boiling,  for  three 
hours,  turning  the  meat  over  once.  Other  vegetables  may  be 
added  if  desired,  and  served  around  the  meat.  Make  gravy 


66  WHAT    AND    HOW 


from  juices  remaining  in  pan  after  vegetables  are  strained 
out.  It  is  important  to  keep  the  liquid  in  the  pan  from  boil- 
ing, as  the  temperature  would  be  too  high  for  the  meat  to  be 
tender.  Any  cheaper  portion  of  beef  will  do  quite  as  well  as 
the  round,  the  latter  is  more  shapely. 

Pot  Roast. 

There  is  probably  no  more  generally  abused  roast  of 
beef  than  this.  The  average  woman  ruins  it  in  the  cooking, 
and  the  butcher  gets  the  blame  which  does  not  belong  to  him, 
for  the  cut  he  sells  you  for  this  delectable  dish  is  necessarily 
tough.  To  the  cook  belongs  the  privilege  of  rendering  it 
tender  and  delicious,  and  when  properly  prepared  it  is  most 
valuable  as  a  change  from  ordinary  roasts. 

Buy  for  this  4  pounds  of  the  round  or  chuck  in  one  thick 
piece  and  y*  pound  fat  salt  pork.  You  may  dispense  with  the 
latter  if  you  have  been  wise  enough  to  save  some  bacon  or 
ham  fat,  or  any  good  dripping.  Heat  the  fat  in  a  pot  for 
which  you  have  a  tight  cover.  Cook  the  meat  in  this  for  5 
minutes,  turn  and  cook  5  minutes  more.  This  will  seal  up 
the  juices  and  prevent  the  meat  from  being  dry.  Add  1  cup 
tomatoes,  1  onion  sliced,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice,  1  bay  leaf, 
1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  turnip  sliced,  and  1 
carrot  chopped  fine.  Put  in  enough  hot  water  to  come  about 
half  way  to  the  top  of  meat  and  simmer  slowly  2  hours,  close- 
ly covered,  turning  at  the  end  of  first  hour. 

Take  out  the  meat,  rub  it  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  keep  hot  while  you  strain  the  gravy,  rubbing  the  vege- 
tables through  the  colander  with  it.  Allowing  ]/2  tablespoon 
of  flour  to  each  cup  of  gravy,  rub  it  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
water,  return  gravy  to  pot  and  thicken  with  the  flour.  Let  it 
boil  up  once,  and  strain  part  over  the  meat,  the  rest  into  a 
gravy  boat.  The  success  of  this  dish  depends  upon  two 
things,  the  thorough  searing  and  slow  simmering.  Should 
the  liquid  boil  hard,  the  meat  will  never  be  tender.  If  the 
gravy  is  not  dark  enough  in  color,  use  kitchen  bouquet  to 
make  it  a  rich  brown. 


BEEF  67 


Sliced  Beef. 

For  this  buy  a  cheaper  piece  of  beef,  no  matter  how  tough 
it  may  be  before  cooking,  it  will  be  tender  if  simmered  slowly. 
Take  \y£  pounds  beef  and  cook  slowly  in  6  cups  water  until 
tender.  If  very  tough,  add  1  teaspoon  vinegar  to  the  water. 
When  cold  cut  in  thin  slices.  Fry  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
in  3  tablespoons  drippings  or  Crisco,  add  2  tablespoons  flour 
and  blend  with  1  cup  water  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked. 
Cook  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth.  Add  1  table- 
spoon vinegar  and  3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup.  Heat  meat 
in   this. 

Pan  Broiled  Steak. 

Steaks  should  be  cut  not  less  than  one  inch  thick,  they 
are  better  thicker.  The  best  method  for  cooking  is  pan  broil- 
ing. When  carefully  done,  the  effect  is  the  same  as  when 
broiled  over  an  open  fire,  while  there  is  less  danger  of  burn- 
ing. The  pan  must  be  very  hot  and  upon  this  depends  the 
success  of  your  steak.  Use  no  grease  whatever,  and  trim  off 
most  of  the  fat  from  the  steak,  as  it  must  not  fry.  When 
you  are  sure  the  pan  is  hot  enough,  lay  the  steak  in,  and  turn 
it  over  and  over  until  both  sides  are  well  seared.  Do  this 
over  a  very  hot  fire.  Now  remove  to  a  cooler  place,  and 
allow  it  to  cook  more  slowly,  turning  less  frequently.  A 
steak  one  inch  thick  should  be  done  in  about  5  minutes,  the 
time  depending  upon  whether  it  is  to  be  rare  or  well  done. 
When  ready  to  serve,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish  and  season  well 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Turn  into  the  pan  about  2  table- 
spoons hot  water,  and  when  well  mixed  with  the  juice  already 
in  the  pan,  pour  slowly  over  the  steak,  cover  closely  and  let 
stand  a  few  moments  in  a  hot  place  before  serving. 

Steaks  may  be  served  with  a  variety  of  sauces,  the  re- 
cipes for  which  will  be  found  in  the  Chapter  on  Sauces  for 
Meat  and  Fish. 

Planked  Steak. 

A  steak  is  most  delicious  cooked  upon  a  plank  in  the 
oven.     It  should  be  nearly  2  inches  thick.     When  about  half 


68  WHATANDHOW 


done,  surround  with  a  border  of  mashed  potato  and  return 
to  over  to  finish  cooking  steak  and  brown  the  potatoes.  Sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Manhattan  Steak, 

is  a  planked  steak  with  potatoes  as  described  above,  with 
a  border  of  peas  previously  cooked  and  well  seasoned,  placed 
inside  the  potato  border,  and  baked  tomatoes  at  the  corners 
of  the  plank.     Garnish  with  cress  or  parsley. 

Rolled  Beefsteak. 

Select  a  steak  cut  from  the  round,  no  matter  how  tough, 
but  a  good  shape  for  rolling.  Lay  flat  on  a  board  and  pound 
it  well  with  a  wooden  mallet. 

Mix  a  dressing  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with 
minced  onion,  a  little  chopped  bacon  or  fat  salt  pork,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  a  little  hot  water  seasoned  with 
kitchen  bouquet.  Spread  this  over  the  steak,  roll  up  and  tie 
into  shape.  Cook  in  oven  slowly  for  two  hours,  closely  cov- 
ered, basting  several  times  with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 
Serve  with  Mushroom  Sauce  or  plain  gravy. 

A  Tough  Steak. 

can  be  rendered  tender  and  palatable  if  marinated.  To 
marinate,  mix  lemon  juice  and  salad  oil  in  equal  parts,  and 
lay  steak  in  it  for  2  hours,  turning  it  once.  Vinegar  may  be 
used  instead  of  lemon  juice,  in  the  proportion  of  one  part 
vinegar  to  three  of  oil.    Wipe  well  before  broiling. 

Kellogg  and  Cary. 

Trim  into  good  shape  and  wipe  off  carefully  a  steak  from 
the  round.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumb  dressing  high- 
ly seasoned  with  minced  onion,  dried  herbs,  pepper  and  salt; 
roll  up  and  tie  at  each  end.  Put  into  a  kettle  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  To  this  add  1  can  tomatoes,  or  1  quart  fresh 
tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces.  Cover  closely  and  sim- 
mer for  3  or  4  hours,  when  the  meat  should  be  tender  and 


BEEF  69 


the  liquid  cooked  to  a  thick  sauce.  The  secret  of  success 
with  this  dish  is  very  slow  cooking,  and  at  no  time  should 
the  liquid  boil.  This  was  a  favorite  after  opera  supper  with 
two  vocalists  famous  a  generation  ago.     Hence  its  name. 

Swiss  Steak. 

2  cups  chopped  beef  4  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  chopped  celery  Gravy  to  moisten 

1  egg,  beaten 

The  tough  end  from  the  pinbone,  a  piece  of  the  neck,  or 
any  scraps  of  raw  meat  will  do  for  this  steak.  Put  it,  with 
celery,  through  the  meat  chopper,  add  other  ingredients,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  with  the  hands  knead  it  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  Shape  into  a  flat  steak  Xyi  inches  thick, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  40  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. 

Meat  Pie. 

Cut  remnants  of  roast  beef  or  steak  into  neat  dice-shaped 
pieces.  To  1  cup  good  gravy  add  1  cup  Tomato  Sauce,  or  1 
cup  stewed  tomato  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Make  a  good 
biscuit  dough,  line  a  baking  dish  around  the  sides  with  a 
layer  of  dough  rolled  very  thin.  Place  the  meat  in  the  dish, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  1  cup 
potatoes  cut  into  neat  dice  and  parboiled,  ^  cup  chopped  car- 
rots and  1  red  pepper,  seeded  and  chopped.  Over  this  pour 
the  sauce,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  biscuit  dough  ^2  inch 
thick.  Wet  edges  of  the  dough  to  make  them  stick  together, 
and  cut  slits  in  the  crust  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Or,  cut  a 
cross  in  the  middle  of  the  crust,  and  turn  the  corners  back. 
Dumplings  cut  from  the  dough  with  a  silver  thimble  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

Biscuit  Dough. 

Enough  dough  to  cover  a  small  pie  may  be  miade  of 

1  cup  flour  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Milk  for  stiff  dough 

yi  tablespoon  lard 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  chop  in  the  lard  with 
a  knife  and  add  milk  cautiously  to  avoid  making  dough  too 


70  WHATANDHOW 


soft,  using  knife  to  stir  it  with.  Roll  out  on  well  floured  board. 
When  rolling  out  dough  of  any  kind,  dredge  with  flour 
to  keep  rolling  pin  from  sticking.  This  is  better  than 
flouring  the  rolling  pin. 

Beef  Roll. 

2  lbs.  beef,  from  round  1  egg 

Grated  rind  from  14  lemon  yi  teaspoononion'juice 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  2  tablespoons^melted  butter 

Salt,  pepper  and  dash  of  nutmeg 

Chop  meat  in  grinder,  and  add  ingredients  in  order  given; 
shape  in  a  roll,  wrap  in  buttered  paper  and  bake  %  hour  in 
moderate  oven,  basting  frequently  with  butter  and  hot  water, 
or  |  bacon  fat  melted  in  the  water  instead  of  butter.  Serve 
with  Mexican  Sauce. 

Hamburg  Steak. 
Pass  meat  twice  through  meat  chopper,  shape  it  into 
two  small  steaks  and  follow  directions  for  pan  broiling  steak. 
Do  not  season  steaks  before  cooking,  as  the  salt  will  draw 
out  the  juices.  Serve  with  slices  of  bacon  and  garnish  with 
cress,  or  parsley,  and  lemon  cut  into  cubes. 


71 


CHAPTER  VI 

LAMB  AND  MUTTON. 

Lamb  may  be  distinguished  from  mutton  by  its  size,  the 
color  of  the  bones  which  should  be  pink,  while  in  mutton 
they  are  white,  and  by  the  joint  in  the  leg,  which  is  serrated 
in  lamb  and  perfectly  smooth,  and  rounded  in  mutton.  No 
one  can  be  deceived  if  this  knowledge  is  practically  used. 

Very  young  lamb  is  expensive,  and  as  the  flesh  of  all 
young  animals  is  immature,  it  is  less  nutritious  than 
the  flesh  of  older  ones.  Perhaps  the  most  generally  used  and 
the  best  meat  from  sheep  is  from  what  is  known  as  "yearl- 
ing,'' where  the  flesh  is  matured  well  and  is  yet  tender  and 
juicy.  Mutton  is  cut  from  creatures  about  three  years  old, 
and  should  always  hang  for  two  to  three  weeks.  In  these 
days  of  cold  storage,  there  is  little  likelihood  of  buying  from 
the  butcher  mutton  which  is  too  fresh.  Much  of  the  strong 
taste  or  flavor  frequently  accompanying  mutton  is  from  the 
fat  and  skin;  both  of  these  should  be  removed  so  far  as  pos- 
sible. 

Roast  Lamb. 

For  this  select  the  leg,  or  the  forequarter.  The  latter 
should  be  thoroughly  boned,  stuffed  and  rolled  before  roast- 
ing. It  is  impossible  to  carve  it  satisfactorily  unless  the 
shoulder  blade  is  removed.  If  not  rolled,  have  the  bones  well 
cracked.  Follow  directions  for  roasting  beef,  allowing  15 
minutes  to  the  pound. 

Braised  Mutton. 

Mutton  does  not  make  a  satisfactory  roast,  as  it  is  apt  to 
be  tough  and  certain  to  be  coarse  grained  and  stringy.  Braised, 
it  is  delicious.  Have  leg  boned.  Wipe  well,  and  fill  the  cavity 
from  which  bone  has  been  removed  with  well  seasoned  bread 
crumb  dressing.  Fasten  the  flap  over  with  skewer,  and 
braise  according  to  directions  for  beef. 


72  WHATANDHOW 


Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 

After  wiping  carefully,  having  previously  removed  skin 
and  fat,  put  into  a  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil 
hard  for  5  minutes,  then  remove  to  back  of  range  where  it 
will  simmer  gently  until  meat  is  tender.  After  the  first  hour, 
add  yi  tablespoon  salt.  Serve  with  „  Caper  Sauce,  or  Egg 
Sauce.    Use  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  for  soup. 

Crown  Roast. 
Have  this  prepared  at  your  butcher's.  It  is  made  of  ribs 
trimmed  and  sewed  into  shape.  When  roasting,  cover  bones 
with  paper  to  prevent  burning.  When  ready  to  serve,  re- 
move papers  from  bones,  slip  over  each  bone  a  little  curled 
paper  which  comes  for  the  purpose,  fill  the  space  inside  the 
crown  with  peas  previously  cooked  and  seasoned,  and  serve 
very  hot,  with  a  garnish  of  parsley  or  cress. 

Mutton  Duck. 

This  is  made  from  the  breast  of  mutton,  and  must  come 
to  you  prepared  by  your  butcher.  It  has  the  shape  and  ap- 
pearance of  a  duck,  bill,  tail  and  all,  and  looks  most  attrac- 
tive if  served  on  a  platter  with  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes, 
garnished  with  greens,  with  tiny  red  radishes  or  strips  of 
pimento.  When  roasting,  wrap  bill  and  tail  with  paper  to 
prevent  their  burning.  Roast  according  to  directions,  which 
will  necessitate  weighing  the  duck.  If  you  require  your 
butcher  to  send  you  the  bones  which  he  removes,  you  will 
have  material  for  soup. 

The  duck  may  be  stuffed  with  sausage  if  you  desire  it; 
and  order  it  done  when  ordering  the  duck  prepared. 

Irish  Stew. 

Marion  Harland,  in  her  "Complete  Cook  Book,"  says  that 
a  man  can  pay  his  wife  no  greater  compliment  as  woman  and 
housekeeper  than  to  say  to  a  business  acquaintance  in  town 
for  the  day,  "I  am  just  going  home,  come  with  me  and  take 
a  family  dinner  with  us;   my  wife  and  I  would  be  charmed 


LAMB     AND     MUTTON  73 


to  have  you,"  and  then  she  adds  that  it  is  quite  worth  the 
wife's  while  to  make  the  best  of  the  situation  and  welcome 
the  unexpected  guest  with  frank  cordiality.  She  accom- 
panies this  with  a  full  page  illustration  of  a  "pick-up  dinner" 
to  which  the  "unexpected  guest"  may  sit  down,  and  says  the 
men  who  are  brought  home  to  take  pot  luck  will  see  in  the 
"Irish  stew,  supported  by  browned  potatoes,  hot  biscuits, 
home-made  cake,  and  a  capital  cup  of  coffee,  a  feast  fit  for 
the  gods  as  represented  by  the  genial  host  and  his  corralled 
guest."  Certainly  no  hungry  man  will  decline  Irish  stew  if 
it  be  well  made.  For  this  buy  a  rack  of  mutton  or  lamb,  have 
it  well  cracked  between  the  bones  and  the  blade  removed. 
This  will  enable  you  to  cut  it  into  pieces  of  uniform  size,  dis- 
carding the  larger  bones  and  every  vestige  of  fat.  Simmer 
in  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  for  1  hour.  Then  add  salt,  2 
sliced  onions  and  2  small  carrots  chopped  fine.  These  latter 
maty  be  omitted  if  not  liked.  Simmer  for  another  hour,  then 
add  2  cups  potatoes  diced,  and  cook  until  these  are  done.  By 
this  time  the  meat  should  be  tender.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  allowing  }4  table- 
spoon to  each  cup  of  gravy,  boil  up  once,  and  serve  all  on  one 
dish.  The  gravy  may  be  colored  with  kitchen  bouquet  if  de- 
sired. 

Scotch  Broth. 

Wipe  3  pounds  mutton  (the  rack  is  the  cheapest),  and 
cut  meat  into  1  inch  cubes,  put  into  kettle  and  cover  with  3 
pints  cold  water,  bring  quickly  to  boiling  point  and  skim. 
Add  1  cup  barley  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  over 
night;  simmer  \}4  hours  or  until  meat  is  tender.  Put  bones 
into  separate  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  heat  slowly  to 
boiling  point,  and  boil  for  Xyi  hours.  Strain  and  add  the 
water  to  meat  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
%  cup  each  of  carrot,  turnip,  celery  and  onion  cut  in  small 
dice,  fry  5  minutes,  and  add  to  soup  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  soft,  thicken  with  1 
tablespoon  flour  and  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  to- 
gether, and  when  ready  to  serve  add  }4  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley. 


74  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Lamb  Chops 

may  be  pan  broiled  according  to  directions  for  beefsteak. 
Rib  chops,  Frenehed,  may  be  arranged  around  a  mound  of 
mashed  potato  previously  browned  in  the  oven.  If  gravy  is 
made  in  the  pan,  as  for  steak,  pour  it  over  the  potato.  The 
mound  should  be  flat  on  top,  and  the  bones  of  the  chops  decor- 
ated with  curled  papers. 

Loin  chops  should  be  pan  broiled,  and  seasoned  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

English  Mutton  Chops. 

Pan  broil,  following  directions  for  beefsteak. 

Pan  Broiling 

may  be  most  successfully  done  in  a  gas  stove,  under  the  oven 
light. 

Breaded  Chops. 

For  these  jjbuy  chops  from  the  leg  of  yearling  mutton; 
wipe,  egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  fat  deep  enough  to  cover 
chops.  When  thoroughly  done,  drain  on  soft  paper  before 
serving.  Or,  after  browning  them  on  both  sides,  make  a  gravy, 
return  them  to  the  pan  and  let  them  simmer  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  for  one  hour,  closely  covered. 


75 


CHAPTER  VII 
VEAL  AND  PORK. 

Veal. 

Choose  veal  for  its  pinkish  tinge  and  perfectly  white  fat. 
When  meat  is  white,  the  calf  was  either  too  young  to  be  fit 
for  food,  or  it  was  bled  to  death,  a  practice  not  to  be  encour- 
aged by  purchasing  the  meat.  Veal  lacks  flavor,  consequent- 
ly it  needs  more  seasoning  than  other  meat.  For  roasting, 
buy  the  leg  or  loin.  The  former  is  the  more  economical,  as 
the  loin  has  a  large  amount  of  bone.  Have  leg  boned,  and 
buy  the  loin  with  the  kidney  attached.  Miss  Far  mar  says 
that  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  should  be  roasted  with  veal  to  add 
flavor,  and  that  roasts  should  be  basted  every  15  minutes, 
first  with  butter,  melted  in  hot  water  and  afterwards  with  the 
fat  in  the  pan.  Prepare  veal  for  roasting  according  to  direc- 
tions for  beef,  allowing  double  the  time  for  cooking. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Veal. 
Have  your  butcher  lard  a  thick  piece  cut  from  the  leg 
and  roast  according  to  directions  already  given.     Serve  with 
brown   gravy   and   mushrooms.     See   time   table   for   roasting 
on  page  20. 

Braised  Veal. 

Select  the  shoulder  or  breast,  the  forequarter  of  veal  like 
that  of  lamb  and  mutton,  is  cheaper  than  the  hindquarter. 
Cook  according  to  directions  for  braised  beef,  adding  2  sprigs 
of    thyme. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Cut  into  uniform  pieces  not  too  large,  egg  and  crumb, 
having  the  egg  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
just  long  enough  to  brown  on  each  side  and  remove  to  a  plat- 
ter. To  the  fat  in  the  pan,  add  1  tablespoon  bacon  or  beef 
drippings;  when  very  hot  stir  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  and 
when   well  blended   2   cups   water   or  stock.     Season   with    1 


76  WHAT    AND    HOW 


teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  color  with  kitchen  bou- 
quet. Return  the  cutlets  to  the  pan,  cover  closely  and  sim- 
mer slowly  for  1}4  hours.  Stewed  and  strained  tomato  is  a 
great  addition  to  the  sauce;  1  cup  is  enough,  though  less  will 
do.  The  liquid  must  be  of  sufficient  quantity  to  cover  cutlets. 
Be  cautious  in  the  use  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Too  much  of  it  will 
give  a  disagreeable  flavor.  Use  it  %  teaspoon  at  a  time.  If  the 
color  is  not  right,  add  a  few  drops  more. 

Veal  Chops. 

are  cut  from  the  loin.  They  may  be  pan  broiled  and  served 
with  mushrooms  or  Tomato  Sauce.  They  are  improved  by 
cooking  x/2  hour,  slowly,  in  the  sauce. 

Veal  Olives. 

Select  for  these,  cutlets  from  the  thickest  part  of  the  leg 
where  they  should  be  solid  and  in  good  shape  for  rolling. 
Cover  with  well  seasoned  bread  crumbs,  roll  and  tie  into 
shape.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour. 
Arrange  in  a  small  baking  pan,  cover  and  bake  until  tender, 
about  yi  hour.  Remove  cover  and  brown.  Serve  with 
gravy,  or  Mushroom  Sauce.  Add  a  small  quantity  of  water 
to  the  pan  and  baste  3  times  while  cooking. 

Breaded  Veal  Chops. 

Wipe  carefully,  egg  and  crumb,  and  fry  in  fat  deep 
enough  to  cover  chops.    Drain  on  paper  before  serving. 

A  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

is  a  capability  which  is  quite  worthy  of  more  general  use. 
Select  one  which  has  enough  meat  on  it  to  use  for  veal  oysters, 
or  veal  loaf. 

Cut  from  it  small  pieces  the  size  of  an  oyster,  and  cook 
as  cutlets.  Put  what  remains  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  4  cloves  stuck  into  a  peeled  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  a 
bunch  of  celery  tops  tied  with  a  string  and  2  teaspoons  salt. 
Bring  gradually  to  boiling  point,   and  simmer  2  hours.     Re- 


VEALANDPORK  77 


move  meat  and  strain  stock  into  bowl  to  cool.  The  meat  on 
the  knuckle  is  now  to  be  chopped  very  fine  and  used  for  cro- 
quettes, jellied  veal,  or  cream  mince;  recipes  for  which  will 
be  found  in  another  chapter.  Instead  of  veal  oysters,  you 
may  use  the  meat  for  veal  loaf.  I  know  of  nothing  to  be 
purchased  for  the  same  amount  of  money  that  will  yield  as 
profitable  returns  as  a  knuckle  of  veal. 

Boiled  Veal. 

A  knuckle  of  veal  may  be  boiled  and  served  with  Egg 
Sauce.  It  is  a  pleasant  variation  from  the  usual  roast  and 
stew  course  at  dinner.  It  will  be  more  tender  and  less  stringy 
if  simmered  instead  of  boiled.  Use  only  enough  water  to  keep 
it  from  sticking  to  the  kettle,  and  make  the  sauce  with  the 
water  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Replenish  water  as  it  cooks 
away. 

Veal  Loaf. 

3  lbs.  lean  veal  6  crackers 

yi  lb.  fat  salt  pork  4  tablespoons  cream 

yi  tablespoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

yi  teaspoon  pepper  yi  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Put  veal  and  pork  twice  through  meat  chopper.  Add 
crackers  rolled  and  other  ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
pack  in  a  small  bread  pan,  smoothing  the  top  off  evenly. 
Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  bake  slow- 
ly 3  hours,  basting  with  %  cup  melted  butter  or  dripping. 
Prick  with  a  fork  while  baking  so  that  the  butter  may  be 
absorbed  by  the  meat.  Cool  and  remove  from  pan.  When 
serving,  cut  in  very  thin  slices.— Miss  Farmar. 

Veal  Stew  with  Dumplings. 

2  lbs.  lean  veal,  cut  into  pieces  2  eggs 

2  cups  potatoes,  cut  into  1  inch  yi,  cup  milk 

cubes  Flour 
}4.  teaspoon  salt 

Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  for  1 
hour.  Now  add  potatoes  and  salt.  Make  a  batter  of  the 
eggs,  slightly  beaten  and  the  milk,  stirring  in  enough  flour 
for  stiff  batter.     Drop  this,  by  the  teaspoonful,  into  the  stewT 


78  ^WHATANDHOW 


when  the  potatoes  are  half  cooked,  cover  and  boil  for  20  min- 
utes.   Season  gravy  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Veal  Pie. 

Make  a  biscuit  dough,  as  directed  for  beef  pie,  line  the 
sides  of  a  deep  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  this  dough,  pour 
into  the  dish  Stewed  Veal  made  by  preceding  recipe,  omitting 
the  dumplings,  but  thickening  the  gravy  slightly,  and  using  it 
before  potatoes  are  thoroughly  done.  Cover  the  top  with 
rounds  of  the  dough,  cut  with  a  small  cooky  cutter. 

Calf's  Liver. 

Soak  slices  of  liver  in  salt  and  water  yi  hour  before  fry- 
ing, to  remove  some  of  the  blood.  Wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry  in  bacon  fat  and 
serve  with  slices  of  bacon.  Be  careful  not  to  fry  too  long, 
it  toughens  it. 

Sweet  Breads. 

Recipes  for  cooking  sweet  breads  will  be  found  in  Chapter 
XVI  on  Luncheon  and  Supper. 


PORK. 

For  roasting,  the  little  tenderloins  are  the  choicest  cuts, 
and  considering  that  there  is  no  waste  whatever,  either  of  fat 
or  bone,  the  price  asked  for  them  is  not  extravagant.  The 
shoulder,  sometimes  sold  after  curing  and  smoking  as  "pic- 
nic hams"  is  a  good  roasting  piece,  though  it  has  quite  large 
bones.  The  hams,  or  hind  legs,  have  much  more  meat  on 
them  than  the  shoulders,  but  are  higher  priced. 

Pork,  containing  the  largest  proportions  of  fat  of  any 
meat,  is  most  difficult  of  digestion,  but  when  well  cooked  is 
not  unwholesome  in  the  winter  months.  In  summer  it  is  not 
used  except  after  curing,  salting  and  smoking.  A  fresh  ham 
or  shoulder  should  be  roasted  three  or  four  hours. 


VEAL    AND    PORK  79 


Roast  Tenderloin  of  Pork. 

A  tenderloin  weighing  2  pounds  will  require  ^  hour  to 
roast.  Peel  and  core  3  apples,  cut  in  half,  and  roast  with 
the  pork  the  last   l/2   hour.     Baste  4  times.     Read  directions 

for  roasting  meat  in  Chapter  I. 

§ 

Roast  Loin  of  Pork. 

This  makes  a  delicious  roasting  piece,  but  is  expensive, 
as  there  is  a  large  quantity  of  bone  and  fat.  Wipe  clean, 
gprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  roast 
20  minutes  to  the  pound,  basting  frequently  with  the  fat 
which  flows  into  the  pan.  When  done,  remove  roast  to  plat- 
ter, pour  off  the  fat  from  the  pan  to  use  as  dripping,  and 
make  a  brown  sauce  or  gravy,  which  must  not  be  greasy. 
Serve  apple  sauce  with  roast  pork,  or  apples,  peeled  and 
cored,  roasted  with  the  meat. 

Crown  Roast. 

A  crown  roast  of  pork  is  made  of  loins  of  pork,  and  is  a 
very  sightly  dish,  filled  with  mashed  potato  and  garnished 
with  cress  or  parsley,  decorated  with  strips  of  red  pepper,  or 
canned  pimento.  Like  a  crown  roast  of  lamb,  it  is  sewed 
into  shape  by  the  butcher. 

Pork  Chops. 

Wipe  clean,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  put  into  a  hot  pan  and  fry  slowly  until  tender.  The  fat 
on  the  chops  is  sufficient  to  fry  them,  or  they  may  be  egged  and 
crumbed  and  cooked  according  to  recipe  for  Veal  Cutlet. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  a  ham  for  48  hours,  changing  the  water  at  end  of  first 
day.  Wash,  trim  off  rough  places,  put  into  ham  boiler  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Bring  quickly  to  boiling  point,  and 
simmer  until  the  small  bone  will  pull  out.  A  ham  weighing  10 
to  12  pounds  will  require  about  3  hours.  Allow  it  to  cool  in  the 
liquor;  remove  skin  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  brown  sugar  at 


80  WHATANDHOW 


least  yi  inch  thick.  Put  into  hot  oven  and  baste  it  frequently 
as  the  sugar  melts.  In  a  short  time  the  ham  will  be  covered 
with  a  candied  glaze,  when  it  can  be  taken  from  the  pan.  If 
desired  hot,  do  not  allow  it  to  cool  before  sugaring.  Save  the 
sugar  and  fat  remaining  in  the  pan  to  candy  sweet  potatoes. 

Baked  Ham. 
After  soaking,  as  directed  for  boiled  ham,  boil  slowly  for 
2  hours.  Cool  slightly  in  the  liquor,  remove  the  skin,  and 
cover  with  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  1  table- 
spoon brown  sugar.  Push  cloves  into  this  ^  inch  apart,  and 
bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven,  increasing  the  heat  if  neces- 
sary to  brown  it.  A  ham  either  boiled  or  baked  should  have 
the  bone  covered  with  fringed  tissue  paper,  or  with  the  curled 
papers  which  come  for  the  purpose,  before  sending  to  the 
table.  The  directions  given  for  a  whole  ham  apply  as  well  to 
a  portion  of  a  ham,  except  in  time  of  cooking.  Allow  20 
minutes  to  each  pound  for  boiling. 

Slices  of  Cooked  Ham 

may  be  toasted  in  a  gridiron,  or  fried,  without  additional  fat; 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  cook  too  long  to  render  it  dry 
and  the  sweet  part  of  the  fat  should  be  trimmed  off. 

Chipped  Ham. 

When  the  ham  is  almost  used  up,  chip  tiny  thin  pieces 
from  the  bone.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  pan,  toss  the  ham 
chips  around  in  this  until  well  coated,  dredge  with  flour,  still 
tossing  the  meat  around  to  mix  flour  with  the  butter,  add 
cream  sufficient  for  a  rich  gravy.  This  is  similar  to  chipped 
dried  beef  in  preparation,  but  entirely  different  in  taste.  Cut 
off  all  fat. 

Fried  Ham. 

Soak  thin  slices  of  uncooked  ham  1  hour  in  tepid  water. 
Wipe  dry  and  put  into  hot  pan,  brown  quickly  on  one  side, 
turn  and  brown  on  other  side.  Do  not  cook  too  long  or  it 
will  be  dry.     Serve  with  cream  gravy,  made  by  dredging  flour 


VEALANDPORK  81 


in  the  pan,  rubbing  it  well  into  the  fat,  and  adding  cream  or 
milk.  If  ham  is  very  lean,  use  a  little  butter  to  make  the 
gravy  with. 

Sausage. 

Link  sausages  must  be  pricked  with  a  fork  and  heated 
slowly  to  prevent  bursting.  They  cook  very  well  in  the 
oven. 

Scrapple. 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  dredge  well  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot 
pan  with  very  small  quantity  of  fat. 

Sausage  and  Fried  Apples. 

may  be  served  together.  It  is  an  almost  universal  custom 
to  serve  apples  in  some  shape  or  form  with  pork,  but  few  per- 
sons perhaps  realize  that  the  pectic  acid  of  the  apple  aids  very 
materially  in  the  digestion  of  the  pork,  which  makes  the  com- 
bination a  wise  one. 

Ball  Sausage. 

Flour  the  hands  well,  roll  balls  of  sausage  and  flatten 
them  into  cakes,  remembering  that  the  cakes  will  be  smaller 
when  fried.  Save  the  fat  in  the  pan.  It  is  pure  lard.  The 
sausage  contains  sufficient  fat  to  fry  itself. 


m  WHATANDHOW 

CHAPTER  VIII 
POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Chicken. 

In  buying  chickens,  notice  the  crop,  whether  it  be  full  or 
empty.  Careful  housewives  in  the  country  keep  fowls  for 
24  hours  without  any  food  before  killing,  and  this  is  a  most 
important  factor  in  the  wholesomeness  and  flavor  of  the  flesh. 
In  these  days  of  selling  by  weight,  you  will  oftener  than  not 
find  full  crops  and  distended  sides,  but  avoid  all  such,  for 
the  flesh  cannot  fail  to  be  impregnanted  with  the  flavor  of 
decomposition  taking  place  in  craw  and  intestines.  In  all 
Southern  markets,  poultry  is  offered  for  sale  drawn,  and  the 
giblets  neatly  tucked  under  the  wings.  It  is  asserted  that 
poultry  undrawn  is  likely  to  be  poisonous,  inasmuch  as  we 
know  not  how  long  it  has  been  killed  and  decomposition  may 
have  set  in.  This  is  disputed,  but  whether  or  not  it  be  true, 
"the  custom  of  exposing  for  sale  undrawn  poultry  is  unclean 
and  unjust.  I  quote  from  Marion  Harland,  and  she  adds, 
"this  I  assert  without  the  slightest  hope  of  arousing  my  fel- 
low housekeepers  to  a  remonstrance  against  established 
usage,  only  it  relieves  my  mind  to  grumble  at  what  I  cannot 
help."  This  was  written  in  1871,  and  she  had  not  yet  seen 
the  evil  remedied  except  in  certain  localities. 

I  am  glad  to  state  here  that  it  is  a  possible  thing  to  buy 
poultry  in  our  market  and  have  it  sent  home  to  you,  ready 
to  cook,  when  you  have  singed  and  wiped  it  clean,  inside 
and  out.  It  is  not,  as  yet,  a  general  practice,  but  a  demand 
from  housewives  will  eventually  lead  to  the  elimination  from 
our  markets  of  poultry  that  is  undrawn.  In  the  meantime, 
patronize  the  man  who  is  willing  to  serve  you  with  poultry 
cleaned  and  in  good  condition,  and  who  sends  it  home  to  you 
neatly  wrapped  and  attractively  arranged. 

To  Select  Poultry. 

Pin  feathers  indicate  always  a  young  bird,  an  abund- 
ance  of  hairs,   an   older   one.      Pin   feathers   are   the   roots   of 


POULTRY    AND     GAME  83 


feathers  which  break  off  in  the  plucking;  being  tougher  in 
an  old  bird,  they  come  out  with  the  feather  when  it  is  pulled 
out.  A  soft  breast  bone  is  a  sure  sign  of  youth,  and  a  full 
eye,  of  recent  killing.  Spurs  are  to  be  found  on  old  birds,  but 
being  easily  removed  are  not  often  in  evidence  when  poultry 
is  on  the  stall.  A  very  young  chicken  is  not  always  the 
most  desirable,  because  its  flesh  is  apt  to  be  stringy,  and  the 
flavor  not  so  good  as  in  a  more  mature  bird.  An  old  stewing 
chicken  makes  the  best  roast  if  properly  prepared  and  cooked. 
The  recipe  following  was  given  me  by  one  of  Wilmington's 
old-fashioned  housekeepers,  who  assured  me  that  an  old 
chicken  was  far  superior  to  a  young  chicken  to  roast.  I  have 
used  no  other  recipe  for  years,  and  can  testify  to  its  value. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Select  a  large  fowl  (a  fowl  always  means  an  old  bird) 
with  a  good  full  breast  and  an  empty  crop.  Have  it  drawn 
and  sent  home  ready  for  cooking.  Singe,  wipe,  or  wash  if 
necessary,  until  thoroughly  clean,  and  fill  with  Bread  Crumb 
Dressing.  Tie  legs  and  wings  down  flat,  rub  over  with  salt 
and  put  into  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  come  half  way 
up  on  the  chicken.  To  each  quart  of  this  water  add  1  table- 
spoon vinegar,  and  let  fowl  steam  in  this,  cooking  steadily 
but  not  too  hard,  until  the  flesh  in  thickest  part  of  leg  is 
tender.  Remove  to  a  baking  pan,  brush  over  with  butter, 
and  brown  in  hot  oven.  Use  some  of  the  water  in  which  the 
steaming  was  done,  to  make  the  gravy.  In  the  meantime, 
boil  the  liver  and  gizzard,  skin  the  latter,  cut  all  into  small 
pieces  and  add  to  the  gravy.  Put  the  water  in  which  these 
were  boiled,  with  the  remainder  in  the  kettle,  and  set  aside 
for   soup. 

Boiled  Fowl. 

Select  a  fowl  and  follow  directions  given  for  roast 
chicken,  adding  to  the  crumb  dressing  1  pint  oysters.  Place 
in  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  15  minutes 
to  the  pound.  If  the  fowl  is  very  old  and  tough,  add  vinegar 
to  the  water  in  the  proportion  of  1  tablespoon  to  1  quart  of 
water.     Serve  with  Oyster  Sauce. 


84  WHATANDHOW 


Oyster  Sauce. 

]  cup  White  Sauce  1  pint  oysters 

yi  cup  oyster  liquor  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  pan,  rub  in  1>2  tablespoons 
flour;  when  blended  add  yi  cup  milk  and  %  cup  oyster  liquor 
which  should  be  previously  heated  and  strained  through  a 
double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth.  Wash  oysters  and  cook  in 
the  sauce  long  enough  to  ruffle.  Do  not  let  them  cook  too 
long  or  they  will  be  tough.  If  they  are  large,  it  is  best  to 
cut  them  up.  Add  seasonings  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 
The  sauce  should  be  quite  thick  as  it  will  thin  out  when  the 
oysters  go  in. 

Boiled  Turkey 

is  prepared  and  cooked  by  the  same  method  as  is  given  for 
chicken.  It  is  a  pleasant  change  from  roast  turkey— with  a 
flavor  entirely  different.  Either  oysters  or  chopped  celery 
may  be  used  in  the  stuffing^and  sauce. 


Smothered  Chicken. 

For  this  select  a  young  chicken,  split  it  up  the  back  and 
lay  it  flat  in  a  baking  pan,  skin  side  up.  Spread  with  bacon 
fat,  or  lay  upon  it  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Have  the  pan  no 
larger  than  is  necessary  to  hold  the  chicken;  pour  into  it  yZ. 
cup  hot  water  and  cover  closely  so  that  the  steam  cannot 
escape.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  When  tender,  which  should  be 
in  20  minutes  to  ^  an  hour,  remove  the  chicken  to  hot  dish 
and  keep  warm  while  making  the  gravy.  Serve  sliced  bacon 
with  it. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

This,  too,  requires  a  young  chicken,  which  is  to  be  split 
up  the  back.  Flatten  the  breast  bone  with  a  wooden  mallet. 
This  should  be  carefully  done,  for  the  bone  must  not  be  splin- 
tered. Have  a  pan  very  hot,  place  the  chicken  in  it,  and 
turn  frequently  at  first  until  it  browns  well  on  both  sides. 


POULTRY     AND     GAME  8.5 


Now  cook  more  slowly  until  chicken  is  tender,  about  20  min- 
utes. Place  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  well  on  both  sides,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  ^2  cup  water  to  the  pan, 
stir  well  over  a  hot  fire,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Serve 
very  hot  and  keep  tightly  covered.     This  is  a  pan  broil,  which 

1  recommend  in  preference  to  broiling  over  an  open  fire,  in- 
asmuch as  the  result  obtained  is  the  same  and  there  is  no 
danger  of  ruining  the  chicken  by  scorching;  but  the  pan 
must  be  hot  enough  to  sear  the  meat  at  once,  and  so  close 
the  pores  to  prevent  escape  of  juices. 

Baked  Fricassee  of  Chicken. 

Joint  a  stewing  chicken  as  for  frying.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Place  in  a  baking  pan 
with  a  liberal  piece  of  butter  on  each  section,  pour  over  all 

2  cups  milk  and  2  cups  water,  and  place  on  the  top  rack  of 
a  moderate  oven.  Cook  for  yi  hour,  turn  each  piece,  bake 
for  another  ]/2  hour,  when  turn  again  and  bake  y?.  hour  longer. 
By  this  time  the  chicken  should  be  tender  and  the  sauce  thick 
and  smooth.  Should  the  chicken  seem  very  tough,  steam 
before  baking  in  1  cup  water  and  2  teaspoonfuls  vinegar,  cooking 
very  slowly  and  closely  covered  for  1  hour. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Joint  a  chicken,  which  should  be  a  young  one  and  tender. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Cook  rather  slowly  so  that  the  meat  will  be  well  done  all  through 
before  the  outside  is  too  brown.  When  tender,  remove  to  a 
hot  dish,  pour  off  the  fat,  leaving  1  tablespoon  of  it  in  the  pan. 
To  this  add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  1  cup  milk,  stirring  vigor- 
ously until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the 
chicken. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

The  secret  of  perfect  stewed  chicken  lies  in  slow  cook- 
ing with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  If  the  kettle  be  tightly 
covered,  the  chicken  will  cook  tender  in  the  steam,  while  the 
flavor  will  not  be  lost  in  a  large  quantity  of  water.     A  little 


86  WHATANDHOW 


vinegar  in  the  water  will  always  shorten  the  process.  Cut 
the  fowl  into  pieces  and  cook  until  tender  in  just  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  kettle.  For  a  medium 
sized  fowl,  about  1  cups  should  be  sufficient;  a  good  rule 
to  depend  upon  is  }4  the  depth  of  the  meat.  Marion  Harland 
says  chicken  for  stewing  and  fricasseeing  should  always  be 
cut  into  pieces  so  small  that  the  carver  will  have  no  use  for 
a  knife  in  helping  the  dish,  the  breast  and  back  each  in  2 
pieces  and  every  joint  separate  from  the  next.  When  sure 
that  the  meat  is  tender,  remove  from  the  kettle  and  keep  hot 
in  another  vessel.  Pour  out  the  gravy,  set  the  bowl  in  a 
pan  of  ice  water  to  cool  quickly  and  cause  the  fat  to  rise  to 
the  top.  Skim  and  strain.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  2  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  smooth.  Add  1 
cup  cream  if  you  have  it;  if  not  milk,  and  1  cup  of  the  gravy. 
If  sauce  is  too  thick,  add  more  gravy.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  1  tablespoon  parsley  chopped  very  fine. 
The  flavor  may  be  improved  by  cooking  with  the  chicken,  a 
bunch  of  celery  tops  and  an  onion  chopped. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. 

Joint  the  chicken.  Fry  y2  pound  fat  salt  pork  in  thin 
slices  in  a  pan.  Slice  a  large  onion  and  cook  with  the  pork 
until  tender,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  Dredge  the  pieces  of 
chicken  well  with  flour,  and  brown  in  the  fat,  turning  several 
times.  Place  chicken,  onion,  pork  and  fat  in  a  deep  kettle, 
add  1  cup  water,  cover  closely  and  steam  until  meat  is  tender 
Make  a  brown  sauce,  according  to  recipe  given  in  the  chapter 
on  sauces,  using  the  strained  gravy  from  the  kettle,  instead 
of  milk.  Pour  over  the  chicken  and  keep  hot  in  a  closely 
covered  dish. 

Chicken  Saute  a  la  Creole. 

2  young  chickens  1  pint  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  C  sweet  green  peppers 

2  tablespoons  flour  3  large  onions 
6  large  tomatoes,  or  2  cloves  garlic 
]/2  can  tomatoes  2  bay  leaves 

3  sprigs  thyme  3  sprigs  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


POULTRY     AND     GAME  87 


Joint  the  chickens,  melt  the  butter  and  fry  the  chickens 
until  browned,  add  the  onions  sliced  and  let  them  brown. 
Stir  in  the  flour  and  add  tomatoes.  Mince  the  parsley,  thyme 
and  bay  leaves;  seed  and  cut  the  peppers  into  strips,  mince 
the  garlic  and  add  all  to  the  sauce.  Cover  closely  and  sim- 
mer for  15  minutes.  Unless  the  tomatoes  make  enough 
liquid  add  the  water  when  necessary,  otherwise  it  is  not 
added  until  after  the  sauce  has  cooked  for  15  minutes.  After 
adding  the  water,  simmer  for  half  an  hour  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This  recipe  is  taken  from  the 
"Picayune  Cook  Book."  I  would  suggest  that  the  sauce  will 
be  more  easily  made  if  the  chicken  be  removed  after  brown- 
ing, and  returned  to  the  sauce  after  the  tomatoes  are  added. 
The  recipe  closes  thus:  "You  will  then  have  a  dish  for  which 
any  old  Creole  would  go  from  Carrollton  to  the  Barracks,  a 
distance  of  fifteen  miles,  merely  to  get  a  taste  of."  Let  me 
warn  my  readers  that  the  success  of  this  dish  depends  upon 
slow,  steady  simmering,  with  the  saucepan  closely  covered. 


Marion  Harland's  Pilau  of  Chicken. 

There  is  no  preparation  of  chicken  that  can  lay  claim  to 
greater  excellence  than  this  dish,  and  it  well  repays  the  trouble 
of  doing  it  just  right,  which  is  the  price  of  success  with  it. 

Joint  a  tender  chicken  and  leave  for  a  half  hour  in  a  bath 
of  salad  oil  and  lemon  juice.  (See  Marinating,  Chapter  I.) 
Drain  without  wiping.  Fry  a  sliced  onion  in  3  tablespoons 
butter,  and  then  put  in  the  chicken.  Cook  for  10  minutes, 
turning  often,  and  empty  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  a  pot 
with  a  broad  bottom.  Pour  over  this  a  cup  of  Tomato  Sauce, 
or  a  cup  of  stewed  and  strained  tomato,  and  the  same  of  stock. 
If  no  stock  is  at  hand,  use  a  cup  of  hot  water,  seajsoned  with 
celery  and  onion.  Stew  gently  until  chicken  is  tender,  take  it 
up  and  keep  hot  in  the  oven,  covered  closely.  Have  ready  ^ 
cup  of  rice  soaked  for  1  hour  in  cold  water,  put  this  with  the 
gravy  in  the  pot  and  cook  until  soft.  Put  chicken  back  in  pot, 
mixing  well  with  the  rice,  simmer  3  minutes  and  serve  on  hot 
platter  with  Parmesan  cheese  sifted  thickly  over  all. 


88  WHATANDHOW 


Chicken  Pie  I. 

1  stewing  chicken  1  cup  milk 

1  quart  oysters  1  cup  chicken  stock 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  chicken  fat 

Salt  and  pepper 

Joint  chicken  and  simmer  until  tender,  using  enough 
water  to  cover  it.  Put  >£  onion  and  a  bunch  of  celery  tops 
into  the  kettle  for  seasoning.  Strain,  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 
It  is  well  to  prepare  the  chicken  thus  far,  the  day  before  the 
pie  is  to  be  made.  Skim  fat  from  stock,  make  White  Sauce 
of  fat,  flour,  milk  and  stock,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Wash 
and  drain  oysters.  Line  the  sides  of  a  baking  dish  with  good 
pastry.  Put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  cover  with  oysters,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread  with  a  layer  of  sauce.  Repeat 
until  dish  is  full.  Cover  with  the  pastry,  cut  slits  to  allow 
escape  of  steam,  and  bake  until  crust  is  brown,  which  should  be 
in  half  an  hour. 

Puff  paste  may  be  used  if  desired.  Biscuit  dough  is  very 
good,  while  plain  pastry  is  perhaps  more  generally  in  favor. 
Tiny  dumplings,  cut  from  the  dough  with  a  thimble,  improve 
the   pie. 

Chicken  Pie  II. 

Follow  recipe  for  fricasseed  chicken;  remove  the  larger 
bones.  Line  a  baking  dish  with  pastry,  and  fill  with  the  fri- 
casseed chicken.  Sprinkle  with  green  pepper,  minced,  and 
add  the  dumplings  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe.  Cover 
with  pastry  and  bake  >2  hour.  Remember  to  cut  slits  for 
escape  of  steam;  or  you  may  cut  a  cross  in  the  centre  of  pie, 
and  fold  back  the  corners.  Before  attempting  either  of  these 
pies,  read  directions  for  making  a  pie  in  Chapter  XIV. 


Chicken  Pie  III. 

2  stewing  chickens  8  cups  flour 

8  large  potatoes  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  cup  lard  or  Crisco 

Joint  chickens  as  for  frying.  Reserve  second  joints  and 
breasts  of  one;  there  will  be  enough  without  them.  Use  for 
another  meal. 


POULTRY     AND     GAME  8!) 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  twice,  cut  the  lard  in  with 
a  knife  and  mix  into  a  soft  dough  with  ice  water.  (See  direc- 
tions for  pastry,  Chapter  XIV.) 

Roll  out  a  portion  of  this  dough  %  inch  thick  and  line  a 
kettle  holding  at  least  6  quarts  of  water,  on  the  sides  only  about 
}$  of  its  depth.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  with  slices  of 
onion  and  a  laj^er  of  sliced  bacon  cut  rather  thick.  On  this  put 
a  layer  of  the  chicken,  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  liberal 
dredging  of  flour.  Cover  this  with  slices  of  potato  Vz  inch 
thick  and  next  put  a  layer  of  squares  cut  from  the  dough. 
Next,  a  layer  of  chicken  as  before,  with  seasonings  and  flour, 
a  layer  of  potatoes  and  squares  of  dough  until  materials  are  used. 
Cut  out  a  crust  to  fit  over  all,  wret  edges  and  pinch  to  dough  on 
sides  of  kettle.  Before  this  crust  is  put  on,  cut  a  cross  in  the 
middle  of  it  and  after  it  is  on  fold  back  the  corners  of  the  cross. 
Put  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  in  enough  water  to  fill  the  kettle 
as  far  up  as  the  top  crust  but  not  over  it.  Cover  the  kettle  with 
a  tight  lid,  bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  for  1  hour.  Replenish 
the  liquid  with  hot  water  as  it  cooks  away.  At  the  end  of  the 
hour,  remove  lid  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  hour.  Fill 
up  again  with  hot  water  when  ready  to  serve.  Remove  to  a 
platter,  put  part  of  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve,  some  in  a  gravy 
boat.  This  pie  is  sufficient  for  10  people.  Reduce  the  recipe 
by  one-half  if  a  small  pie  is  desired.  Many  of  those  who  use 
this  book  will  recognize  this  chicken  pie  as  it  has  been  served 
in  a  Wilmington  family  for  many  years  and  to  those  of  us  who 
have  been  fortunate  enough  to  feast  upon  it,  memories  are 
bright  with  thoughts  of  kindly  hospitality  and  chicken  pie 
served  with  stewed  onions  and  pickled  cabbage,  a  meal  "fit  for 
the  gods." 

Turkey. 

In  buying  turkey  it  is  always  best  to  leave  the  selection 
to  a  dealer  whom  you  can  trust.  It  is  not  as  easy  to  choose  with 
its  age  in  view,  as  is  chicken.  The  same  advice  is  safe  with 
ducks.  Choose  a  reliable  man  who  will  draw  your  turkey  or 
duck  and  allow  him  to  select  your  bird.  The  pin  feather  test 
hold  good  with  all  poultry,  as  does  the  full  eye,  and  while  a 


90  WHATANDHOW 


fowl  may  be  good  when  treated  judiciously  to  tendering,  neither 
the  turkey  nor  the  duck  will  successfully  stand  this  treat- 
ment.    Therefore  a  tender  bird  is  essential. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Wash  out  the  bird  thoroughly,  adding  a  little  soda  to 
the  water;  rinse  well  and  fill  with  stuffing  of  bread  crumb, 
sausage  or  chestnuts,  as  given  below.  Sew  up  the  body,  and 
tie  the  craw  with  a  string.  Using  narrow  strips  of  muslin, 
bind  legs  and  wings  securely  to  the  body,  and  cover  the 
breast  with  slices  of  salt  pork.  There  is  a  trivet  which  has 
been  placed  upon  the  market  for  holding  poultry  in  the 
pan,  breast  side  down,  which  does  away  with  the  necessity 
of  covering  the  breast  with  the  pork.  Pour  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  over  it,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  in  a 
very  hot  oven  at  first,  decreasing  afterwards  to  a  slow  steady 
heat.  Baste  frequently.  When  almost  done,  brush  over 
with  butter,  or  better  yet,  bacon  fat,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
finish  cooking.  Before  making  the  gravy,  pour  the  fat  and 
juices  into  a  bowl,  cool  quickly  and  remove  the  grease  which 
rises  to  the  top.  Turn  back  into  the  pan,  add  giblets  boiled 
and  chopped  very  small,  and  thicken  with  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Bread  Crumb  Stuffing  for  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Summer  savory,  or  sweet  mar- 
2  tablespoons  hot  water  joram 

Melt  butter  in  water,  pour  over  the  crumbs  and  add  sea- 
sonings. There  is  an  excellent  poultry  seasoning  which  can 
be  bought  already  mixed.  If  cracker  crumbs  are  used  in- 
stead of  bread,  allow  for  swelling,  and  do  not  stuff  the  bird 
too  full. 

Sausage  Stuffing. 

Mix  sausage  with  bread  crumbs,  in  proportion  of  1  part 
crumbs  to  2  parts  sausage. 


POULTRY     AND     GAME.  01 


Chestnut  Stuffing. 

Boil,  shell  and  peel  1  quart  large  chestnuts,  mash  smooth 
and  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  A  small  quan- 
tity of  crumbs  may  be  used  with  this,  or  the  turkey  stuffed 
with  the  chestnuts  alone. 


Roast  Duck. 

AY  ash  thoroughly,  adding  1  teaspoon  soda  to  the  water, 
and  rinse  in  two  waters.  Wipe  dry,  and  stuff  with  mashed 
potato,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley.  Cut 
an  onion  in  half,  and  put  the  two  pieces  into  the  potato.  Pour 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  ducks,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
dredge  well  with  flour,  and  roast  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound 
in  a  covered  pan.  When  tender,  brush  over  with  butter  or 
bacon  fat,  dredge  again  with  flour  and  brown.  As  the  gravy 
will  contain  a  large  amount  of  fat,  it  should  be  strained  into 
a  bowl  and  set  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  to  cool  suddenly,  when 
the  grease  may  be  skimmed  off,  and  the  gravy  returned  to 
the  pan.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smooth  with 
cold  water  and  strain  into  the  gravy  boat,  over  the  giblets 
boiled  and  minced  very  fine.  Remember  directions  already 
given  for  gravies  and  sauces  that  they  must  always  cook  long 
enough  after  flour  is  added,  to  destroy  the  floury  taste. 

Or,  the  ducks  may  be  stuffed  with  the  usual  Crumb  Dress- 
ing as  given  for  turkey  and  chicken. 


Roast  Goose. 

If  purchased  from  a  dealer  whose  word  is  to  be  trusted, 
a  goose  is  a  welcome  change  from  the  usual  poultry,  and 
will  be  found  very  good.  Roast  according  to  directions  given 
for  ducks,  using  either  potato  or  crumb  dressing,  and  allow 
20  minutes  to  the  pound  unless  very  tough,  when  a  longer 
time  will  be  required.  Remove  all  the  grease  before  making 
the  gravy.  Goose  grease  is  very  strong  in  its  flavor,  and  is 
not  desirable  in  the  gravy. 


WHAT    AND     HOW 


Venison  Steak. 

Venison  steak  requires  marinating  for  three  hours  before 
cooking.  Pan  broil,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread 
on  both  sides  with  butter.  Add  to  the  juice  in  the  pan  2 
teaspoons  currant  jelly  and  2  tablespoons  hot  water;  stir 
until  jelly  is  melted  and  pour  over  the  steak.  Cover  at  once 
with  a  hot  lid,  and  keep  hot  in  the  oven  a  few  moments  be- 
fore serving.  A  steak  cut  from  the  tender  side  of  the  round 
of  beef  and  prepared  in  this  way  will  bear  a  strong  resem- 
blance   to    venison. 

Partridges. 

After  cleaning  and  singeing  the  birds,  wash  in  water 
with  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  it,  and  rinse  thoroughly. 
Wipe  inside  of  the  bird  perfectly  dry  and  fill  with  an  oyster 
stuffing.  (See  directions  for  Boiled  Chicken.)  Tie  down 
legs  and  wings  with  a  string,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Cover  the  breast  of  each  bird  with  strips 
of  fat  salt  pork  or  bacon  while  cooking.  Serve  on  slices  of 
buttered  toast,  moisten  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan. 

Or,  the  birds  may  be  split  up  the  back  and  cooked  in  a 
covered  pan;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  pour  over  them 
on  the  dish,  Oyster  Sauce  or  broiled  oysters. 

Reed  Birds, 

need  very  careful  cooking  in  order  that  they  shall  be  juicy. 
They  may  be  broiled,  but  will  be  perhaps  better  if  cooked  in 
the  oven,  covered  with  slices  of  bacon.  They  may  also  be 
cooked  with  a  large  oyster  inside,  and  should  always  be 
served  on  toast.  They  are  so  small  and  tender  that  they  are 
in  danger  of  being  cooked  too  long,  in  which  case  they  lose 
their  flavor  and  juiciness. 

Wild  Ducks 

should  be  roasted  with  a  large  onion  inside  to  counteract  the 
fishy  flavor.  Roast  about  20  minutes,  if  medium  size,  in  a 
hot  oven,  basting  frequently.     Do  not  put  any  water  in  the 


POULTRY    AND     GAME  93 


pan,  but  cover  the  breasts  with  slices  of  bacon  which  will 
supply  material  for  basting.  A  wild  duck  should  be  rare 
enough  for  the  blood  to  run  when  it  is  carved. 

Stewed  Rabbits. 

After  washing  thoroughly,  wrpe  dry  and  joint,  cutting 
the  back  in  half.  Stew  slowly  until  tender,  in  enough  water 
to  cover  (and  no  more),  to  which  add  a  bunch  of  herbs  or 
celery  tops,  salt  and  pepper,  and  an  onion  sliced.  They 
should  be  tender  in  2  hours;  remove  meat,  thicken  gravy, 
color  brown  with  kitchen  bouquet,  add  a  teaspoon  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  and  put  the  meat  back  to  heat  again. 


94  WHAT     AND    HOW 

CHAPTER  IX 

FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES. 

In  recommending  the  frequent  use  of  sauces,  I  can  do 
no  better  than  to  quote  Linda  Hull  Lamed,  the  author  of 
"The  Hostess  of  To-day,"  when  she  says:  "The  greatest 
stumbling  blocks  to  success  at  home  are  a  lack  of  sauces  and 
the  knowledge,  time  and  practice  it  requires  to  make  them. 
In  all  first-class  hotel  or  restaurant  kitchens,  the  chefs  are 
well  supplied  with  a  variety  of  sajuces,  stocks  and  glazes. 
These  are  always  on  hand  so  that  a  dip  into  one  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  another  result  in  something  which  cannot  be  copied  in 
the  home  kitchen."  In  the  following  collection  of  recipes  for 
sauces,  I  have  selected  those  best  adapted  for  home  use,  and 
almost  without  exception  these  will  keep  for  several  days  in 
a  cool  place. 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

Scald  1J/2  cups  milk  with  1  slice  of  onion,  bit  of  bay  leaf 
and  sprig  of  parsley,  also  3  peppercorns.  Strain.  Make 
White  Sauce  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour  and 
the  seasoned  milk.  Beat  yolk  of  1  egg,  add  hot  sauce  grad- 
ually, and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  In  making  the  white 
sauce  follow  the  directions  given  very  carefully.  White 
Sauce  and  Brown  Sauce  are  foundation  sauces;  when  these 
are  a  mastered  art,  no  other  sauces  will  be  difficult  to  accom- 
plish. 

White  Sauce. 

In  a  flat  sauce  pan  melt  1  tablespoon  butter,  add  1  table- 
spoon flour  and  stir  until  blended.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  and 
continue  stirring  until  it  is  well  mixed.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  until  smooth  and  cook  long  enough  to  elimin- 
ate the  taste  of  flour.  A  flat  wire  spoon  is  indispensable  for 
the  proper  making  of  sauces  if  a  flat  bottomed  pan  or  skillet 
is  used.  If  a  round  bottomed  sauce  pan  is  used,  a  wire  whisk 
is  necessary.     These  two  articles  should  be  in  every  kitchen. 


FISH     AND     MEAT     SAUCES  05 


An  extra  heavy  spoon  of  twisted  wire  is  far  better  than  the 
flimsy  spoons  to  be  bought  for  five  cents;  costing  just  twice 
as  much,  it  lasts  for  years. 

Thick  White  Sauce. 

is  used  for  cutlets,  croquettes,  etc.,  and  is  made  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  preceding  recipe,  substituting  for  the  measure 
of  flour,  %  cup  Kingsford's  corn  starch,  or  y$  cup  flour.  If 
a  rich  sauce  is  desired,  increase  the  butter. 

Caper  Sauce. 

To  White  Sauce  add  }4  cup  capers,  drained. 

Egg  Sauce. 

To  1  cup  White  Sauce  add  chopped  hard  boiled  egg,  or 
chop  the  white  and  rub  the  yolk  through  a  sieve  over  the 
sauce. 

Brown  Sauce. 

is  made  as  White  Sauce  and  colored  with  kitchen  bouquet; 
or,  brown  the  butter  in  the  pan,  add  the  flour  gradually,  al- 
lowing it  to  brown,  and  the  milk  or  seasoned  water,  which- 
ever is  used.  Add  a  few  drops  kitchen  bouquet,  if  not  brown 
enough.  Seasoned  water  adds  to  the  flavor  of  a  sauce;  direc- 
tions for  making  it  will  be  found  in  recipe  for  Mushroom 
Sauce   II. 

Rockford  Sauce. 

Make  a  white  sauce,  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  to  it 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  sweet  red  pepper  or  pimento,  stir 
into  the  hot  sauce,  and  just  before  serving  add  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Bread  Sauce. 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  butter  Pepper,  salt  and  a  tiny  pinch  of 

\}4  cups  milk  mace 

Heat   milk   with   butter   and   onion   chopped   fine.      Cook 

until  onion  is  soft.    Pour  over  the  crumbs  and  let  stand  1  hour. 

Add  other  ingredients,  boil  5  minutes  and  serve  with  poultry 

and   game   birds. 


96  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Mushroom  Sauce  I. 

To  Brown  Sauce,  add  yi  can  mushrooms,  or  fresh  mush- 
rooms cut  into  small  pieces  and  cooked  five  minutes  in  butter. 

Mushroom  Sauce  II. 

1  can  hotel  mushrooms  yi  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  seasoned  water 
2  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  2  cups  of  water  for  10  minutes  with  1  slice  onion, 
1  slice  carrot,  sprig  of  parsley,  6  peppercorns,  sprig  of  thyme, 
and  a  piece  of  bay  leaf.  Strain.  This  gives  the  seasoned 
water  called  for  and  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  sauce.  Plain 
water  may  be  used  if  not  convenient  to  make  the  other,  but 
the  sauce  will  not  have  the  same  flavor.  Open  the  can  of 
mushrooms  an  hour  before  using  and  expose  it  to  the  air, 
after  draining  and  rinsing.  Chop  or  mince  half  of  them,  re- 
serving some  of  the  nicest  looking  pieces.  Put  butter  and 
lemon  juice  in  sauce  pan  and  heat;  add  the  minced  mush- 
rooms and  cook  slowly,  5  minutes.  Strain  out  the  mush- 
rooms. Allow  the  butter  to  brown  and  stir  in  the  flour. 
When  blended  add  seasoned  water,  mix  until  smooth,  and 
simmer  15  minutes.  Add  reserved  pieces,  cook  2  minutes 
longer  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  not  a  good 
brown  color,  use  a  few  drops  kitchen  bouquet.  Sherry  is  an 
improvement.  If  fresh  mushrooms  are  used,  omit  seasoned 
water  and  use  1  cup  hot  water  instead. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

In  a  sauce  pan  put  2  cups  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces  (or  the 
equivalent  in  canned  tomatoes),  }4  small  onion  sliced,  a  piece 
of  bay  leaf  the  size  of  a  nickel,  3  cloves  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar.  Boil  for  10  minutes  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Stir 
in  a  pinch  of  soda.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  let  it  brown,  remove  from  the  fire  and  rub  in  1^2 
tablespoons  flour,  add  }4  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet  and  com- 
bine mixtures.  Return  to  fire  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.     Cook  5    minutes,   stirring. 


FISH     AND     MEAT     SAUCES  97 


Sauce  Supreme. 

y+  cup  butter  \}4  cups  chicken  stock 

}4  cup  flour  >4  cup  hot  cream 

Make  as  White  Sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 
juice.  When  not  used  for  chicken,  omit  chicken  stock  and 
use  2  cups  cream.  This  sauce,  as  its  name  implies,  is  above 
all  other  white  sauces,  and  is  useful  for  chicken,  fish,  oysters 
and  lobster. 

Cucumber  Sauce. 

Half  cup  cucumber  chopped  fine,  }4  teaspoon  salt,  }4  tea- 
spoon each  parsley  and  onion  minced,  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 
Let  this  mixture  drain  in  fine  wire  sieve  for  a  half  hour. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  it  carefully  to  yi  cup  well  whipped 
cream,  or  to  same  quantity  Mayonnaise.  To  be  used  with 
fish,  or  salad,  and  moulds  of  cold  fish. 

Sauce  Piquante. 

To  l'cup  Brown  Sauce,  add  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon pickles  and  1  tablespoon  capers  chopped  fine,  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne.  This  sauce  is  used  for  fish,  vegetables,  especially 
cabbage  and  Brussels  sprouts,  or  for  cold  meat. 

Sauce  Tartare. 

To  k thick  Mayonnaise  add  chopped  pickles  and  capers, 
and  parsley  minced  to  a  powder. 

Hot  Sauce  Tartare. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  y$  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  Sauce  Dash  of  paprika 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  butter,  and  heat  over  hot 
water.  Brown  butter  in  sauce  pan  and  strain  into  first  mix- 
ture. 

To  cook  over  hot  water,  put  ingredients  into  flat  bot- 
tomed sauce  pan,  remove  lid  from  tea  kettle  full  of  water  boil- 
ing hard,  and  put  sauce  pan  in  place  of  lid. 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


Mexican  Sauce. 


Chop  an  onion  very  fine,  and  brown  in  1  tablespoon  good 
dripping,  or  if  not  on  hand,  use  butter.  Be  careful  that  the 
onion  does  not  burn;  add  1  green  pepper  and  1  red  pepper, 
chopped  fine,  and  1  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomato.  Cook 
slowly  15  minutes,  add  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  \% 
teaspoon  celery  salt,  or  1  teaspoon  extract  celery,  salt  to  taste. 

This  sauce  is  fine  for  steak,  or  for  use  in  a  casserole  of  veal. 


Hollandaise  Sauce  I. 

Wash  ]/2  cup  butter  until  waxy  and  smooth.  Dry  and 
divide  into  3  portions.  Put  one  piece  in  a  sauce  pan  with  1 
tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Place  over  tea 
kettle  of  boiling  water  and  stir  with  wire  whisk  until  butter 
melts.  Add  second  piece  butter,  and  when  thick,  third  piece, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  y&  teaspoon 
salt  and  dash  of  pepper,  or  cayenne.  Do  not  cook  too  long  or 
it  will  curdle.  This  sauce  may  be  varied  by  adding  finely 
chopped  parsley,  or  2  tablespoons  strained  tomato,  cooked 
thick.     Use  with  eggs  and  fish. 

Hollandaise  Sauce  II. 

"%.  cup  butter  Dash  of  cayenne 

Juice  y2  lemon  14  cup  boiling  water 

Yolks  2  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  egg  yolks  1  at  a  time,  beating 
hard,  lemon  juice  and  seasonings.  Put  bowl  over  hot  water 
and  stir  vigorouly  until  the  mixture  thickens,  when  add  the 
boiling  water  and  continue  stirring  until  thick.  Beware  of 
cooking  too  long. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Chop  fresh  mint  very  fine.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
sugar  and  crush  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Cover 
closely  and  stand  aside  for  an  hour,  if  feasible.  WThen  ready 
to  serve,  moisten  with  vinegar. 


FISH     AND     MEAT     SAUCES  99 


Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  Brown  Sauce,  or  gravy  left  from  roast  lamb, 
add  1  tablespoon  currant  jelly.  This  sauce  is  to  be  used  over 
slices  of  cold  lamb,  which  may  be  reheated  in  the  sauce.  Also 
for  venison. 

Creole  Sauce. 

£  tablespoons  (level)  chopped  2  tomatoes  stewed  and  strained 

onion  yi  cup  sliced  mushrooms 

4  tablespoons  (level)  chopped  6  olives,  stoned 

green  pepper  1  y$  cups  Brown  Sauce 

<i  tablespoons  (level)  butter  Salt  and  pepper, 

Cook  onion  and  peppers  with  butter  5  minutes,  add  toma- 
toes, mushrooms  and  olives,  cook  2  minutes  and  add  Brown 
Sauce.     Bring  to  boiling  point,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Gravies. 

Much  of  the  prejudice  existing  against  gravies  would  be 
overcome  were  they  made  properly.  Too  often  gravy  is  a 
mixture  of  grease  and  lumps  of  flour  when  it  should  be  entirely 
free  from  both.  After  roasting  meat,  remove  from  the  pan 
and  strain  the  fat  into  the  dripping  can.  In  the  case  of  mutton, 
discard  the  fat;  it  is  too  strong  to  use  as  dripping.  Leave  about 
a  tablespoonful  in  the  pan  to  mix  the  flour  with.  Return  to  the 
fire;  when  the  fat  is  hot,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  flour  gradually  to 
allow  it  to  brown,  and  pour  over  it  2  cups  hot  water.  Use  the 
flat  wire  spoon  recommended  for  sauce  making,  scraping  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  to  obtain  any  meat  juice  which  may  have 
hardened  there.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  }4  teaspoon 
kitchen  bouquet.  If  flour  has  browned  as  it  should,  the  gravy 
will  be  a  rich  brown  color;  if  not,  add  more  kitchen  bouquet, 
remembering  that  too  much  of  it  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  the 
gravy,  as  it  is  very  strong.    Strain  into  the  gravy  boat. 

Hot  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce. 

To  1  cup  White  Sauce  made  with  water  instead  of  milk, 
add  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  minced  onion,  2  tablespoons 
minced  parsley,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt.  Simmer  over  fire 
for  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  or  avoid  constant  stirring 


100  WHATANDHOW 


by  cooking  in  double  boiler.     It  is  an  improvement  to  add  the 
parsley  just  before  serving  instead  of  cooking  it. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce. 

Cream  2  tablespoons  butter  with  the  juice  of  yi  lemon, 
add  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley.     Serve  very  cold  with  fish. 

Sauce  a  la  Hotel  Strand. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  raw  ham  2  cloves 

1  tablespoon  chopped  celery  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  chopped  carrot  1  tablespoon  flour 

]/2  tablespoon  chopped  onion  %  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  2  cups  water 

Put  the  ham,  celery,  carrot  and  onion  through  the  meat 
chopper.  There  should  be  %  cup  when  mixed  together.  Put 
these  on  the  fire  with  the  butter  and  cloves.  When  butter  is 
melted,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  browned.  Add  water 
gradually  and  cook  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
sherry  wine;  strain  and  sprinkle  with  parsley.  This  is  a  famous 
sauce  for  fried  lobster,  or  crabs. 


101 


CHAPTER  X 

VEGETABLES. 

Summer  vegetables  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible 
after  gathering.  Corn  and  peas  especially  lose  their  sweet- 
ness after  standing.  This  is  why  vegetables  taste  so  much 
better  in  the  country  than  in  town,  and  is  a  most  excellent 
reason  for  patronizing  the  farmer  who  will  deliver  them  fresh 
to  you  every  day,  f  you  are  dependent  upon  city  markets. 
The  winter  vegetables  will  keep  best  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and 
I  would  urge  upon  my  readers  to  make  more  use  of  these  and 
less  of  canned  goods,  though,  of  course,  the  latter  are  useful 
in  their  own  place.  A  little  study  of  this  matter  will  show 
that  the  vegetables  provided  for  our  winter  use  are  rich  in 
carbohydrates  which  furnish  energy  and  heat  for  the  body, 
and  they  contain  also  a  large  percentage  of  mineral  matter  and 
water,  which  keeps  the  blood  pure  and  plentiful.  I  would 
like  to  recommend  Miss  Farmar's  Cook  Book,  as  containing 
tables  and  technical  teaching  which  should  be  well  under- 
stood by  every  woman  who  provides  food  for  a  family.  Upon 
her  rests  a  responsibility  not  recognized  as  generally  as  it 
should  be,  for  to  a  very  large  extent  there  is  placed  in  her 
hands  the  health  and  growth  of  those  for  whom  she  orders 
food,  and  she  needs  knowledge  to  guide  her.  She  will  dis- 
cover that  the  food  which  is  suitable  for  cold  weather,  will 
produce  too  much  heat  in  the  body  for  warm  weather,  and 
that  certain  foods  containing  water  in  large  quantities  are 
much  better  than  the  medicines  often  given  in  the  spring  to 
purify  the  blood;  that  oatmeal,  with  its  large  percentage  of 
proteids  and  fat,  is  unfit  for  use  in  summer,  while  wheat 
preparations  and  rice  are  not  as  heating  for  summer  use. 
The  heat  of  the  body  depends  upon  food  very  largely  and 
not  entirely  upon  the  clothing  worn.  Children  who  are  prop- 
erly fed  will  not  suffer  so  much  from  the  cold  in  winter  nor 
the  heat  in  summer,  nor  for  that  matter  will  the  adult  who 
uses  the  right  diet.  These  are  the  victims  of  a  lack  of 
knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  house  mother,  or  they  will  rise 
and  call  her  blessed,  as  the  case  may  be. 


102  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Keep  in  the  kitchen  a  small  scrub  brush  for  cleaning 
vegetables,  and  two  paring  knives. 

Follow  this  general  rule:  Boil  vegetables  grown  above 
ground  in  salted  water;  boil  vegetables  grown  underground 
without  salt  until  almost  done,  when  it  may  be  added.  There 
are  exceptions  to  this  rule,  which  will  be  noted  as  they  occur 
in  the  recipes. 

Asparagus. 

Select  asparagus  with  a  thick  stalk,  and  save  the  ends 
cut  off  for  soup.  When  asparagus  first  comes  it  is  tender  all 
the  way  down,  but  when  it  is  tough  at  the  ends,  cut  it  off. 
Tie  into  a  neat  bunch,  stand  in  boiling  salted  water  deep 
enough  to  cover  all  but  the  tips,  and  cook  in  covered  vessel 
for  20  minutes,  or  less  if  very  tender.  Drain  carefully,  lay 
on  small  squares  of  buttered  toast,  and  cover  with  White 
Sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  enough  lemon  juice  to  flavor. 
Or,  instead  of  White  Sauce,  serve  with  Sauce  Hollandaise  or 
melted  butter  with  a  small  quantity  of  lemon  juice.  Asparagus 
may  be  cooked  without  tieing  in  a  bunch  if  laid  carefully  in  the 
water,  all  tips  pointing  in  same  direction.  Remove  with  a 
perforated  skimmer. 

Poke  Stalks 

can  be  prepared  and  cooked  as  asparagus.    They  are  wholesome 
and  inexpensive  and  extremely  good  if  young  and  tender. 


BEANS. 

String  Beans 

are  obtained  the  year  round,  since  our  Southland  has  been 
brought  so  near  to  us  by  quick  transportation.  They  are 
best,  of  course,  in  the  early  summer  when  they  are  procur- 
able in  our  own  vicinity,  and  are  freshly  picked.  They  should 
be  snapped  into  inch  lengths  after  removing  the  strings  and 
cooked  in  boiling,  salted  water.  If  young  they  should  be  ten- 
der in  30  or  40  minutes;  if  old,  they  will  need  boiling  for  an 
hour.     Drain  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 


VEGETABLES  103 


Butter  Beans. 

Butter  beans  or  wax  beans  are  sweeter  than  the  ordinary 
green  string  beans,  distinguishable  by  their  yellow  color.  Snap, 
string  and  cook  as  directed  above.  A  small  quantity  of  cream 
may  be  added  with  the  seasonings  if  desired. 

Lima  Beans. 

Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  and  boil 
until  tender  in  small  quantity  of  salted  water.  They  will  re- 
quire from  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour  according  to  size.  Drain, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  in  very  hot  dish. 

Dried  Lima  Beans 

are  better  for  winter  use  than  the  canned  beans,  and  should 
be  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water.  Drain,  wash  and  boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain,  dredge  lightly  with 
flour,  tossing  them  around  in  the  pan  with  a  fork  to  avoid 
breaking,  add  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  ]/2  cup  milk.  When  very  hot,  dish  and  serve  at 
once. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Pick  over  1  quart  pea  beans,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  In  morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water 
and  heat  slowly,  keeping  water  below  boiling  point.  Cook 
until  skins  will  burst,  which  is  best  discovered  by  taking  a 
few  on  the  tip  of  a  spoon,  and  blowing  upon  them,  when  skins 
will  burst  if  cooked  long  enough.  Discard  these  after  testing. 
Drain  beans  (use  the  water  for  soup;  it  contains  considerable 
nourishment).  Scald  rind  of  f£  pound  fat  salt  pork,  scrape, 
cut  off  %  inch  slice  and  put  in  bottom  of  bean  pot.  Cut  through 
rind  of  remaining  piece  every  )4.  inch,  making  cuts  1  inch  deep. 
Put  beans  in  pot  and  bury  pork  in  beans,  leaving  rind  exposed. 
Mix  1  tablespoon  (level)  salt,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  and  3 
tablespoons  (level)  of  sugar;  add  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  pour 
over  beans;  then  add  enough  more  boiling  water  to  cover 
beans.  Cover  bean  pot,  put  in  oven  and  bake  slowly  6  or  8 
hours,  uncovering  the  last  hour  to  brown  and  crisp  the  pork 


104  WHATANDHOW 


rind.  Add  water  as  needed.  The  fine  reputation  which  Boston 
baked  beans  have  gained,  has  been  attributed  to  the  earthen 
bean  pot  in  which  they  are  supposed  to  be  cooked.  Equally 
good  beans  have  been  eaten  where  a  5  pound  lard  pail  was 
used. — Miss  Farmar. 

Beets. 

Marion  Harland  says:  "It  is  well  to  know  exactly  how 
beets  should  be  boiled;  too  often  the  once  ruddy  vegetable  is 
allowed  to  'bleed'  out  its  juices  until  it  has  a  pallid  and  un- 
inviting appearance,"  and  then  she  gives  the  following  direc- 
tions : 

Wash  the  beets,  rubbing  them  carefully  with  the  hand  to 
dislodge  the  dirt,  but  not  hard  enough  to  abrade  the  skin. 
Drop  into  cold  water  as  you  cleanse  them.  Put  into  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  an  hour.  Drain,  skin  and  slice,  serve  in 
a  dish  with  melted  butter  poured  over  them,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  They  are  best  when  a  tablespoon  of  vine- 
gar is  added  to  the  melted  butter.  As  a  further  precaution 
against  "bleeding"  she  might  have  said  to  allow  2  inches  of 
leaf  stalks  to  remain  on,  and  also  the  tap  root. 

Brussels  Sprouts. 

Remove  the  ragged  outside  leaves,  and  soak  in  salt  water 
for  an  hour  or  two.  This,  to  persuade  the  tiny  insects  sure 
to  be  within  the  folded  leaves  to  come  out.  Drain  and  wash 
thoroughly.  Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender  but  not  soft. 
Try  with  a  wooden  toothpick;  it  will  not  break  the  sprouts  as 
a  fork  might.  Twenty  minutes  should  be  long  enough  to  boil 
them  tender.  Drain  and  serve  with  White  Sauce  or  Hollandaise 
Sauce  over  them,  or  they  may  have  simply  melted  butter  and 
lemon  juice.  As  these  belong  to  the  cabbage  family,  see  direc- 
tions for  boiling  cabbage  to  avoid  odor  in  the  house. 

Scalloped  Brussels  Sprouts. 

After  preparing  and  boiling  as  above,  drain,  and  put  into 
buttered  bake  dish.  Cover  with  White  Sauce  and  buttered 
crumbs;  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


VEGETABLES  105 


Cabbage. 

It  is  perfectly  possible  to  boil  cabbage  without  the 
knowledge  of  any  one  in  the  house,  if  directions  be  carefully 
followed.  Have  a  large  quantity  of  salted  water  boiling  hard. 
Into  this  drop  the  cabbage  after  cutting  into  small  pieces 
and  soaking  in  cold  water  one  hour.  Keep  water  boiling 
hard,  do  not  cover  the  pot,  unless  necessary  to  start  boiling 
after  cabbage  first  goes  in,  in  which  case  remove  lid  as  soon  as 
boiling  begins.  Boil  for  30  minutes  when  it  should  be  ten- 
der. Drain  at  once  and  throw  water  into  the  drain  outside. 
Chop  with  sharp  knife,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
If  pork  is  desired,  boil  fat  salt  pork  1  hour  in  the  water,  omit- 
ting salt,  before  adding  the  cabbage,  and  serve  pork  in  centre 
of  dish,  the  cabbage,  without  chopping,  around  it. 
Cabbage  au  Gratin. 

After  boiling  and  chopping  cabbage  as  above,  put  into 
bake  dish,  cover  with  White  Sauce  and  buttered  crumbs,  and 
brown  in  hot  oven. 

Cabbage  Salad  or  Cold  Slaw. 

Select  a  small  and  heavy  head  of  cabbage,  remove  outside 
leaves,  and  pass  through  the  meat  shopper,  using  the  coarse 
cutter.  Soak  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Chop  an  equal  quantity 
of  apples  in  a  wooden  bowl  with  a  chopping  knife,  drain  cab- 
bage and  add  to  apples,  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add 
Cream  Dressing  (see  Salad  Dressing),  and  serve  very  cold. 
Or  celery  may  be  used  instead  of  apples,  and  the  slaw  may 
be  served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Italian  Cabbage. 

After  boiling,  chop  into  rather  large  pieces  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  put  a 
layer  of  cabbage;  cover  with  a  sprinkling  of  buttered  crumbs, 
and  2  teaspoons  Parmesan  cheese  (grated).  Repeat,  until 
dish  is  nearly  full,  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  White  Sauce  well 
seasoned  with  kitchen  bouquet  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  >^ 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  y2  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven.    There  should  be  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top  of  sauce 


106  WHATANDHOW 


Carrots. 

The  tiny  carrots  which  appear  in  attractive  bunches  in 
our  markets  in  the  spring  are  delicate  in  flavor,  and  should 
be  a  welcome  dish  on  every  table.  Remove  tops,  wash, 
scrape  and  cut  into  thin  slices  or  neat  dice;  boil  in  salted 
water  until  tender,  about  %  hour.  Drain  and  serve  with 
White  Sauce.  Carrots  are  an  invaluable  aid  in  flavoring  soup 
and  stock;  also  for  their  bright  color,  are  an  addition  to  soup 
if  cut  attractively. 

Cauliflower. 

In  choosing  cauliflower  shun  those  heads  with  dark 
spots.  They  are  not  fresh.  The  leaves  should  be  a  bright 
green.  As  cauliflower  belongs  to  the  cabbage  family,  follow 
directions  given  for  boiling  cabbage  to  avoid  odor.  The  head 
of  cauliflower  should  be  pulled  apart  and  soaked  for  an  hour 
in  salted  water,  cold.  Boil  until  tender  and  drain.  Serve 
with  a  white  sauce  poured  over  it.  If  desired,  keep  the  head 
whole,  and  serve  with  sauce  as  above,  but  do  not  neglect  the 
soaking  in  salt  water  to  remove  insects. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin. 

Separate  a  head  of  cauliflower  into  flowerets,  and  soak 
for  an  hour  in  cold  water  salted.  Boil  according  to  directions 
in  preceding  recipe.  Drain,  and  arrange  in  buttered  bake 
dish.  Pour  over  it,  enough  White  Sauce  to  cover,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  hot  oven.  Parmesan 
cheese  may  be  used  in  this  dish  if  liked. 

Celery. 

When  celery  comes  from  the  market,  wrap  in  cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold  water  and  keep  in  cool  place  until  ready 
for  use. 

Remove  outside  stalks  (these  will  do  for  soup  or  stewed 
celery),  cut  off  the  root,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  stalk 
in  half,  lengthwise,  and  then  into  quarters.  Or,  if  desired, 
separate  the  pieces,  serve  only  the  hearts,  and  use  the  coarser 
pieces  for  stewing. 


VEGETABLES  107 


Stewed  Celery  I. 
Cut  celery  into  inch  pieces,  and  cook  in  salted  water  until 
tender.     Drain,  and  serve  with  White  Sauce. 

Stewed  Celery  II. 

Cut  into  lengths  like  asparagus,  boil  and  serve  on  toast 
with  Hollandaise  or  White  Sauce. 


GREEN  CORN. 

Boiled  Corn. 

After  removing  the  husks  and  silk  (scrub  with  a  soft 
brush  to  remove  the  latter  more  effectually),  drop  into  plenty 
of  boiling  water,  salted  and  boil  for  8  or  10  minutes.  Corn 
is  rendered  tough  by  long  boiling.  Cover  with  a  napkin  when 
sending  to  the  table. 

Stewed  Corn. 

Cut  from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife.  To  avoid  cutting 
the  hard  husk  of  the  grain  split  the  grains  and  scrape  off,  or 
cut  just  a  thin  shaving  from  the  grains  and  then  scrape. 
Save  all  the  milk  or  juice  of  the  corn,  and  put  all  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter.  If  the  corn  seems  dry, 
add  enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  stir  constantly  for  the  first  few  moments,  oc- 
casionally afterwards.  It  should  be  done  in  ten  minutes. 
This  is  a  delicious  way  to  serve  corn,  if  carefully  done.  It 
must  not  cook  too  long,  and  should  be  about  the  same  con- 
sistency as  boiled  corn  cut  from  the  cob. 

Corn  Pudding  I. 

4  cups  corn,  scraped  from  the  cob  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  together  and  bake  y±  hour  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish  set  in  a  basin  of  water.  Let  the  oven  be  moderate,  and 
keep  dish  covered  until  within  10  minutes  of  the  time  when 
it  should  be  done;  then  uncover  and  brown. 


108  WHATANDHOW 


Corn  Pudding  II. 

Split  the  grains  and  scrape  from  the  cob  12  ears  of  corn. 
Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  add  to  corn.  Add  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  lastly  the  stiffly  whipped 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  buttered  bake  dish,  covered,  for 
half  an  hour.  Uncover  and  brown,  serve  at  once.  This  is 
practically  a  souffle,  and  consequently  will  fall  if  allowed 
to  stand. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Split  the  grain  and  scrape  the  corn  from  12  ears  of  corn,  or 
it  may  be  grated  instead.  To  4  cups  of  this  pulp,  add  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
batter.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  melted  Crisco 
or  butter  substitute.  Bake  on  a  griddle.  These  will  be  tough 
if  too  much  flour  is  used  and  the  quantity  of  milk  required 
depends  upon  the  juiciness  of  the  corn.  If  desired  they  may  be 
fried  in  deep  fat  dropped  from  a  spoon,  in  which  case  the  batter 
must  be  thick. 

Succotash 

is  a  combination  of  boiled  corn,  cut  from  cob,  and  young  lima 
beans  previously  boiled.  Season  well  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Cucumbers. 
Cucumber,  in  its  raw  state,  must  be  used  fresh  and  crisp. 
It  is  not  by  any  means  so  difficult  of  digestion  nor  so  dan- 
gerous as  many  people  imagine.  Keep  it  on  the  ice  until 
ready  to  use.  Peel,  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  or  with  a  criss- 
cross potato  cutter,  and  leave  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or 
so.  Drain  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  Dressing, 
which  should  not  be  poured  over  until  just  as  it  is  to  be  served. 
If  allowed  to  remain  in  the  vinegar  it  will  be  tough,  lose  all 
its  crispness  and  become  most  unwholesome. 

Fried  Cucumber. 

Peel,  and  leave  in  cold  water  an  hour.  Slice  lengthwise 
in  thick  slices^like  egg  plant.  Wipe  dry,  egg  and  crumb  and 
fry_m^deep  fat. 


VEGETABLES  100 


Fried  Egg  Plant. 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices  }£  inch  thick,  egg  and  crumb. 
Set  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  at  least  an  hour  before  frying.  This 
gives  the  crumb  coating  time  to  harden  which  prevents  the 
grease  from  soaking  in.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  in  a  hot  colan- 
der before  serving.  There  are  few  persons  who  serve  this  vege- 
table as  it  should  be.  These  directions  cannot  be  too  carefully 
adhered   to. 

Baked  Egg  Plant. 

Cook  an  egg  plant  in  boiling  salted  water  for  10  minutes. 
When  cold,  cut  it  in  half  lengthwise,  and  with  a  spoon  care- 
fully remove  the  pulp,  leaving  a  wall  nearly  an  inch  thick. 
Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  mince  very  fine,  ]4.  tablespoon 
onion,  and  cook  these  together  until  onion  is  soft  but  not 
brown.  Add  to  pulp  which  should  be  chopped  fine.  Now 
add  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  moisten  with  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Beat  1  egg,  add 
to  mixture,  and  refill  the  two  egg  plant  halves.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  25  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Scalloped  Egg  Plant. 

Pare  and  cut  into  dice.  Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water, 
salted.  Parboil  for  20  minutes,  drain  and  put  into  a  buttered 
bake  dish  in  layers  with  buttered  crumbs  between.  Sprinkle 
each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strew  with  green  peppers 
chopped  very  fine.  When  dish  is  full,  pour  over  it  2  table- 
spoons cream,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  y£  hour, 
covered.     Uncover  and  brown. 

Lettuce. 

As  soon  as  lettuce  comes  from  the  market,  separate  and 
wash  each  leaf  carefully.  Bear  in  mind  the  fact  that  often 
poisonous  powders  are  used  on  vegetables  to  destroy  insects, 
and  especially  all  uncooked  vegetables  need  thorough  wash- 
ing. Tie  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth,  or  slip  into  a  salt  bag,  and 
keep  in  the  refrigerator  near  the  ice.  It  is  always  ready  for 
use,  and  will  keep  crisp  and  fresh  for  several  days. 


110  WHATANDHOW 


Boiled  Hominy. 

To  ensure  hominy  white  after  cooking  it  is  necessary  to 
use  a  saucepan,  preferably  white  enamel,  which  is  not  used 
for  other  purposes,  unless  it  be  for  articles  akin  to  hominy. 
Soak  over  night,  drain  and  cook  in  salted,  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burning. 
Add  water  when  necessary.     It  will  require  several  hours. 

Breakfast  Hominy. 

Samp  or  grits,  as  it  is  called  at  the  South,  or  breakfast 
hominy,  is  nourishing,  and  can  be  used  in  a  variety  of  ways, 
requiring  only  thorough  cooking  to  make  it  one  of  the  best 
vegetables  for  use  all  the  year  round.  Though  classed  by 
some  writers  among  the  cereals,  it  is  in  reality  a  vegetable, 
being  simply  corn  dried  and  prepared  in  a  special  manner. 
Samp  is  hominy,  ground.  To  cook,  use  1  cup  hominy  to  4 
cups  water.  Wash  well,  and  soak  for  two  hours.  Drain. 
Stir  into  the  boiling  water  and  cook  1  hour  in  a  double  boiler 
stirring  frequently.  If  it  seems  too  dry,  add  milk.  Season 
with  salt. 

Hominy  Pudding. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  breakfast  hominy       4  eggs 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Add  milk  gradually  to  hominy  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Add  other  ingredients,  the  well  beaten  eggs  last.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  for  %  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

Hominy  Croquettes. 

2  cups  cold  boiled  breakfast  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

hominy  2  eggs,  beaten  light 

Salt  and  pepper 

Work  the  butter  into  the  hominy.  When  free  from  all 
lumps,  add  the  eggs  and  seasoning,  and  mix  well.  With  floured 
hands  shape  into  small  cylindrical  croquettes  and  set  aside 
to  stiffen.  Egg  and  crumb,  put  in  a  very  cold  place  for  2  hours 
to  harden,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


VEGETABLES  111 


Stewed  Mushrooms. 


Wash  and  peel  the  Targe  mushrooms,  the  buttons  need 
only  scrubbing  with  a  soft  vegetable  brush.  Remove  steins, 
scrape  them  clean,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Break  the  larger 
mushrooms  into  pieces,  keep  the  buttons  whole,  unless  they 
are  very  large,  when  they  had  best  be  cut.  Melt  2  table- 
spoons butter  in  a  pan  (this  is  for  1  quart  mushrooms),  put 
in  the  mushrooms  and  sliced  stems,  shake  well  until  they  be- 
gin to  cook,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  closely  and  allow  them 
to  simmer  slowly  for  5  minutes,  shaking  the  pan  two  or  three 
times.  Now  dredge  well  with  flour,  tossing  with  a  fork  to 
mix  well,  and  add  1  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Cook  slowly 
5  minutes  longer  when  they  should  be  tender  and  the  sauce 
creamy  and  smooth.  Serve  on  toast,  cut  into  neat  pieces 
and  crustless.     A  dash  of  nutmeg  is  an  improvement. 

Baked  Mushrooms. 

For  this  select  12  large  cup  shaped  mushrooms,  wash 
peel  and  remove  stems.  Scrape  stems,  and  cut  into  bits. 
Break  into  very  small  pieces  2  mushrooms  and  add  to  stems. 
Put  the  12  caps  into  a  shallow  buttered  dish,  cap  side  up. 
Into  each  cap,  put  some  of  the  broken  bits,  a  few  drops  onion 
juice  and  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper.  Dot  over  with 
butter,  dredge  with  flour  and  pour  over  all,  nearly  1  cup  cream. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  10  minutes.  Serve  on  toast  with  the  sauce 
poured  over.  They  should  be  basted  once  with  the  cream,  and 
if  the  sauce  seems  too  thick  add  more  cream. 


Okra. 

The  okra  is  a  vegetable  that  deserves  to  be  better  known. 
Good  judgment  needs  to  be  used  in  buying  it,  as  it  grows 
woody  in  fibre  if  not  picked  while  young.  We  have,  in  this 
market,  two  varieties,  one  with  a  smooth  skin,  the  other  with 
a  corrugated  skin;  either  one  is  good,  provided  they  are  tender 
and  freshly  picked.  Select  small  okra,  if  over  4  or  5  inches  long 
they  are  probably  old  and  tough. 


112  WHATANDHOW 


Stewed  Okra  I. 

Wash  well,  and  boil  in  water  to  cover;  add  a  teaspoon 
of  salt  to  each  pint  of  water.  Cook  slowly  but  at  a  steady 
boil  until  okra  is  tender,  20  minutes  to  %  hour  should  be  ample 
time.  Pour  off  the  water,  add  a  little  milk,  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Now  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  just  enough 
to  flavor  the  sauce;  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Okra  II. 

Cut  off  the  ends  and  discard  them;  cut  the  okras  in  % 
inch  slices,  and  proceed  according  to  recipe  above. 

Okra  and  Tomato. 

Cook  sliced  okra  and  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces  together 
20  minutes,  or  until  both  vegetables  are  stewed.  Use  equal 
quantities.     Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Okra  Creole  Style. 

1  doz.  okras  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  tomatoes,  large  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley     1  green  pepper 

Cut  off  the  ends  of  okras,  peel  and  cut  into  pieces  the 
tomatoes,  saving  all  the  juice  Chop  the  pepper,  after  seed- 
ing it,  also  the  onion.  Cook  onion  and  pepper  in  the  butter 
6  minutes,  without  browning;  add  the  tomatoes  and  okras 
and  simmer  20  minutes,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Sprinkle  with  the  parsley  just  before  dishing  it.  This 
is  a  fine  meal  of  itself,  and  an  excellent  luncheon  for  a  hot  day. 

Stewed  Onions. 
Peel  onions  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Boil 
in  plenty  of  water  until  tender;  if  young  they  should  cook  in 
20  minutes;  if  old  and  large,  it  is  better  to  cut  them  in  quar- 
ters before  cooking,  and  to  change  the  water  when  they  are 
half  done.  When  you  are  sure  they  are  done  (for  a  half  cooked 
onion  is  most  unwholesome),  drain,  and  serve  with  White 
Sauce,  cooking  the  onions  slowly  in  the  sauce  for  10  minutes. 


VEGETABLES  113 


Baked  Onions  I. 

Peel  onions,  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  boil  for  10 
minutes  and  drain.  Arrange  in  buttered  pudding  dish, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  a  white  sauce 
to  which  a  beaten  egg  has  been  added.  Remember  that  the 
egg  will  curdle,  if  put  in  while  the  sauce  is  hot;  allow  it  to 
cool,  or  add  very  gradually  to  the  egg.  Sprinkle  with  but- 
tered crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  with 
a  cover  over  the  dish,  remove  cover  and  brown.  For  this 
select  small  onions,  and  the  amount  of  sauce  needed  will  de- 
pend upon  the  size  of  your  dish,  the  onions  must  be  well  covered 
with   the   sauce. 

Baked  Onions  II. 

Cook  tender  in  boiling  water,  changed  once  after  15  min- 
utes, drain  and  put  into  shallow  baking  pan.  Melt  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  1  cup  stock,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  the  onions.  Cook  in  hot  oven  until  onions  are 
brown,  lift  out  with  a  perforated  spoon,  and  put  into  dish 
in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a 
little  flour,  1  tablespoon  to  each  cup,  rubbed  smooth  in  cold 
water;  color  the  sauce  a  good  brown  with  kitchen  bouquet. 
Add  this  carefully,  as  too  much  will  give  an  unpleasant 
flavor.  Add  ]4.  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  pour  over 
the   onions. 

Onion  Souffle. 
Boil  six  or  eight  onions  until  tender,  and  chop  very  fine. 
Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  cream,  salt  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne.  To  a  cup  of  White  Sauce,  well  seasoned,  add  % 
cup  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  yolk  of  1 
egg  beaten.  Mix  with  the  onion  mixture  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Put  into  buttered  dish  and  brown. 
"Hostess  of  To-day." 

Green  Peas. 

Have  salted  water  boiling  on  the  stove,  drop  the  peas  in  and 
cook  twenty  minutes  if  very  young.  (Consult  time  table  for 
cooking  on  page  20.)     Use  a  small  quantity  of  water  to  cook 


114  WHATANDHOW 


them  in.  When  tender,  drain,  and  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt.  A  small  quantity  of  sugar  should  be  boiled  with 
them,  if  they  are  not  perfectly  fresh.  A  sprig  of  mint  is  a 
delightful  addition.  Save  the  water  you  drain  off.  It  will  be 
useful  for  soup  if  you  have  a  few  peas  left  over. 

Peas,  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Canned  peas,  or  peas  not  entirely  fresh  and  tender,  may 
be  served  with  a  cream  sauce,  ^  cup  to  1  pint  peas.  Winter 
peas,  which  can  be  purchased  in  our  markets,  soaked  and 
ready  to  boil,  are  much  improved  by  the  addition  of  the  sauce. 

Canned  Peas. 

Canned  peas  should  be  taken  from  the  can,  rinsed  in 
cold  water,  drained  and  exposed  to  the  air  for  at  least  an  hour. 
Let  them  heat  in  hot  water,  heating  the  water  gradually  with 
peas  in  it,  so  that  they  will  heat  gradually  without  cooking. 
This  method  avoids  mashing  the  peas  which  is  inevitable  if  they 
must  be  stirred  while  heating.  Drain,  season  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

Cut  the  stems  from  green  peppers,  so  they  will  stand  up- 
right. Cut  a  slice  from  the  end,  remove  seeds  and  membrane, 
using  scissors,  and  fill  with  following  mixture: 

1  onion  chopped  fine  4  tablespoons  chopped  chicken 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  chopped  ham 

4  tablespoons  chopped  mushrooms         2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  onion  in  butter  until  golden  brown;  add  other  in- 
gredients and  cool  the  mixture.  Stand  the  peppers  on  end  in 
a  baking  pan,  pour  about  them  a  cup  of  chicken  stock,  or 
plain  water,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  This  mixture  will 
fill  6  peppers. 

Sauce  for  Stuffed  Peppers. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  rub 
smooth.  Stir  in  1  cup  chicken  stock  and  cook  until  thick. 
Scald  2  tablespoons  cream  with  1  slice  of  onion,  remove  onion 


VEGETABLES  115 


and  add  cream  to  sauce.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Chop  a  pimento  into  very  small  pieces,  add  to  the  sauce  and 
pour  around  the  peppers  when  ready  to  serve. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

are  attractive  served  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast  on  indi- 
vidual plates  with  the  sauce  poured  around.  If  baked  in 
stock,  the  sauce  may  be  made  by  thickening  and  seasoning 
the  gravy  in  the  pan.  If  served  without  sauce,  place  on  the 
buttered  toast  a  ring  cut  from  a  red  pepper  and  stand  the 
stuffed  pepper  on  this. 

Peppers  with  Sweet  Bread  Stuffing. 

Make  1  cup  White  Sauce,  using  chicken  stock  or  gravy 
instead  of  milk.  Make  a  mixture  of  sweet  breads  cut  into 
bits,  finely  chopped  chicken  and  mushrooms  chopped,  equal 
quantity  of  each.  There  should  be  1>2  cups.  x4dd  to  the 
sauce  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  6  peppers  with 
the  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  proceed  ac- 
cording to  directions  given  in  recipe  for  stuffed  peppers. 

Boiled  Pace  I. 

Put  into  a  double  boiler  1  cup  rice  well  washed,  1  cup  milk, 
2  cups  water  and  yi  teaspoon  salt.  Allow  it  to  cook  without 
stirring  until  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  liquid.  By  this  time  it 
should  be  done,  but  if  not  add  a  little  milk  and  continue  cooking, 
it  should  be  stiff  enough  to  turn  out  on  a  dish. 

Boiled  Rice  II. 

Wash  rice  through  several  waters  until  the  last  water 
is  not  cloudy.  Boil  rapidly,  so  that  the  motion  of  the  water 
will  keep  the  grains  tossing  all  the  time  Do  not  stir  unless 
just  after  you  put  the  rice  into  the  water,  it  ceases  boiling 
for  a  while,  in  which  case  keep  lifting  the  rice  from  the  bot- 
tom of  the  kettle  until  boiling  begins  again.  Have  plenty 
of  salt  in  the  water.  When  rice  is  cooked,  drain  and  put  into 
the  oven  in  the  colander  to  dry.     Prepared  in  this  way,  each 


116  WHAT    AND    HOW 


grain  is  separate  from  the  others,  and  should  be  perfectly  dry. 
a  contrast  to  the  usual  soggy  mass  served  under  the  name  of 
boiled   rice. 

Moulded  Rice. 

1  cup  rice,  boiled  in  salted  water  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  eggs,  beaten  separately 

Drain  rice,  and  dry  in  oven.  Stir  in  the  butter  and  the 
beaten  yolks,  season  with  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
over  the  fire  in  bowl  set  in  hot  water,  %  minutes,  using  fork 
to  avoid  breaking  rice  grains.  Press  into  a  round  bottom 
bowl  to  mould.  Turn  out  on  a  platter,  cover  with  meringue 
made  of  whites  of  eggs  whipped  stiff  and  dry,  and  brown  in 
oven.     Serve  very  hot. 

Spanish  Rice. 

2  large  green  peppers,  sweet  4  large  tomatoes 

%  cup  rice  2  large  onions 

Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  rice  thoroughly,  remove  seeds  and  membranes 
from  pepper,  peel  onions  and  tomatoes.  Chop  onions  and 
peppers,  which  may  be  easily  done  in  the  meat  chopper,  using 
coarse  cutter;  cut  tomatoes  in  pieces.  Put  all  ingredients  into 
a  stew  pan  and  cook  until  rice  is  tender,  adding  water  when 
necessary.  Watch  carefully  that  it  does  not  burn.  When 
ready  to  serve,  add  a  generous  lump  of  butter.  If  canned 
tomatoes  are  used,  ]4.  can  or  1  pint  will  equal  4  fresh  tomatoes. 
This  will  cook  quite  as  well  in  a  double  boiler,  eliminating  any 
danger  of  scorching. 

Radishes. 

Radishes  should  be  scraped,  the  leaves  cut  off  except  one 
which  furnishes  a  bit  of  green  as  a  garnish  to  the  dish,  and 
served  on  crushed  ice. 

Radish  Tulips. 

Beginning  at  the  root  end,  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife, 
make  5  or  6  incisions  running  lengthwise  almost  the  length 
of  the  radish,  cutting  through  the  skin  only.  Loosen  the 
skin  between  each  cut,  and  lay  in  ice  water;  the  sections  will 


VEGETABLES  117 


fold  back,   resembling  the  petals  of  a  tulip.     Use  the  round, 
red  radish.    Serve  on  a  bed  of  water  cress  or  celery  tops. 

Spinach. 

Wash  spinach  through  at  least  seven  waters,  to  make 
sure  that  no  dirt  or  sand  remains.  Pick  over,  discarding 
stems  and  withered  leaves.  Boil  20  minutes,  using  no  water 
except  that  clinging  to  the  leaves  after  washing.  If  heated 
slowly,  it  will  develop  plenty  of  its  own  juices  to  cook  it  in. 
Sprinkle  with  salt.  This  applies  only  to  young  spinach, 
which  comes  to  the  market  in  early  spring.  Old  spinach  has 
a  stronger  flavor,  and  is  better  cooked  in  water.  Drain  well 
in  a  colander,  pressing  with  the  back  of  a  saucer  until  there 
is  no  water  left  to  be  squeezed  out.  With  a  sharp  knife,  chop 
until  very  fine.  Return  to  the  fire  to  heat  again,  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  mound  on  a  hot  dish.  Have 
ready  an  egg  hard  boiled.  Rub  the  yolk  through  a  fine  sieve, 
covering  the  top  of  the  mound  with  the  fine  yellow  powder, 
and  cut  the  whites  into  points  to  arrange  around  the  base. 
To  make  the  points,  cut  the  egg  in  half  lengthwise,  remove 
the  yolk,  and  then  cut  each  half  into  four  strips. 

Or,  serve  with  White  Sauce,  or  Hollandaise  Sauce  poured 
over  it.  Keep  the  spinach  a  bright  green,  by  boiling  in  uncover- 
ed kettle. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. 

After  spinach  is  prepared,  boiled,  drained  and  chopped 
according  to  directions  in  preceding  recipe,  turn  into  hot  pan 
with  1  tablespoon  butter  to  1  pint  of  the  spinach;  toss  lightly 
with  a  fork,  and  dredge  with  flour,  about  >^  tablespoon.  Add 
Yi  cup  cream  and  cook  three  minutes,  or  until  the  taste  of  the 
flour  is  cooked  out.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  four  gratings 
of  nutmeg.     Serve  very  hot. 

Spinach  Souffle. 

When  spinach  is  chopped  fine,  add  a  tablespoon  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  This  quan- 
tity  is   for    1    pint   spinach    measured   after   chopping       Cool. 


118  WHAT    AND     HOW 


When  cold,  beat  into  it  %  cup  cream  and  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Turn  into  buttered  bake  dish,  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  until  a  light  brown.     Serve  at  once. 

Slimmer  Squash. 

Wash  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  2  summer  squashes, 
medium  size.  Boil  for  25  minutes  or  until  tender.  Drain, 
and  put  through  a  vegetable  press,  squeezing  gently  at  first 
to  extract  the  water,  which,  of  course,  should  be  done  over  a 
second  bowl.  The  squash  will  be  good  only  on  condition  that 
it  is  perfectly  dry.  Therefore  squeeze  the  water  from  it  thor- 
oughly. Return  to  fire,  just  long  enough  to  get  well  heated, 
adding  a  tablespoon  of  butter,    and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Tomatoes. 

To  remove  skins  from  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over 
a  few  at  a  time,  pouring  it  off  at  once.  Cover  with  cold  water, 
and  the  skins  will  readily  slip  off.  Do  not  allow  them  to  remain 
in  the  boiling  water,  or  they  will  be  soft  and  watery.  If  for 
salad  or  serving  cold,  chill  on  the  ice. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  up  1  quart  tomatoes,  measured  after  cutting. 
Cook  in  an  agate  or  aluminum  sauce  pan,  never  in  tin,  and 
do  not  use  a  tin  spoon  to  stir  them  with.  Stew  rapidly  for 
20  minutes  and  season  with  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Rub  together  1  tablespoon  each  flour  and  butter 
until  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  stir  into  the  tomatoes. 
A  bit  of  bay  leaf  and  a  slice  of  onion  cooked  with  the  tomatoes, 
will  add  a  pleasant  flavor,  but  these  must  be  removed  before 
other  seasonings  are  added. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Grease  a  pudding  dish,  and  put  into  it  a  layer  of  peeled 
and  sliced  tomatoes;  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  buttered 
crumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  1  teaspoon  minced  onion, 
and    1   tablespoon   chopped   sweet  pepper.   Repeat   until   dish 


VEGETABLES  119 


is  full,  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  White  Sauce  or  soup  stock,  and 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes, 
covered.  Uncover  and  brown.  While  the  onion  and  pepper 
are  a  great  addition  to  this  dish,  they  may  be  omitted  with- 
out spoiling  it  If  tomatoes  seem  acid,  and  canned  tomatoes 
will,  beyond  doubt,  use  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  over  them 
before  covering  with  crumbs— a  teaspoon  to  each  layer. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  tops  of  6  large  tomatoes,  or  12  small 
ones.  With  a  spoon  loosen  the  pulp  on  top,  so  that  the  sea- 
sonings may  reach  the  centre.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
]/2  teaspoon  sugar,  and  %  teaspoon  salt  on  each  tomato,  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes, 
or  until  they  are  slightly  brown  on  top.  A  deep  pie  plate 
(enamel)  is  the  best  dish  to  bake  these  in.  Add  1  tablespoon 
water  to  juice  in  the  dish,  and  serve  over  tomatoes. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes. 

Remove  a  slice  from  stem  erid  of  6  tomatoes,  or  if  small, 
use  12.  With  a  spoon,  carefully  remove  pulp  and  seeds;  if 
you  break  through  the  skin,  use  the  damaged  tomato  for 
something  else,  and  replace  it  with  another  one.  Drain  oft 
the  water,  and  mix  the  pulp  with  an  equal  quantity  of  fine, 
soft  bread  crumbs.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion 
juice,  or  add  chopped  onion,  yi  teaspoon  to  each  tomato.  Put 
Y/2  teaspoon  sugar  in  each  shell,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 
On  the  top  of  each  put  }4  teaspoon  butter  and  bake  20  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven. 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Corn. 

After  preparing  tomatoes  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe, 
add  to  the  pulp,  instead  of  crumbs,  an  equal  quantity  of  corn 
cut  from  the  cob,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  With  Rice. 

Fill  tomato  shells  prepared  as  directed,  with  cold  boiled 
rice  and  the  pulp  mixed  together   and  seasoned  with  salt  and 


120  WHATANDHOW 


pepper.  On  each  tomato  thus  filled,  put  %  teaspoon  of  but- 
ter, and  a  thick  covering  of  grated  cheese.  Put  back  the  top 
for  a  covering,  and  bake  yi  hour,  covered. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 

The  best  place  to  broil  tomatoes  is  under  the  flame  of 
the  gas  stove  oven.  Remove  the  pan  and  broiler.  Cut  toma- 
toes in  half  crosswise,  and  if  these  halves  *will  not  stand  level, 
take  small  slice  from  the  under  side.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  put  on  an  enamelled  pie 
plate  and  slip  under  the  flame  for  6  or  8  minutes,  or  until  they 
are  slightly  brown  and  cooked  through.  If  they  should  show 
signs  of  scorching,  turn  down  the  lights. 

Fried  Tomatoes  I. 

Cut  into  rather  thick  slices  without  peeling,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  some  good  dripping  or  bacon  fat, 
first  dredging  with  flour.  When  brown  on  both  sides,  re- 
move to  a  hot  dish  while  making  the  sauce.  If  there  is  not 
enough  fat  left  in  the  pan  to  make  a  tablespoon,  add  more. 
With  the  wire  spoon,  rub  into  this  1  tablespoon  flour,  and 
let  it  brown  before  adding  1  cup  milk.  The  sauce  should  be 
smooth  and  creamy,  and  of  a  light  brown  color.  If  not  dark 
enough,  use  %  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Fried  Tomatoes  II. 

Cut  into  thick  slices,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  and  set 
aside  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  tested  for 
temperature  according  to  directions  given  for  deep  fat  frying. 

Fried  Tomatoes  III. 

Tomatoes  may  be  fried  under  the  flame  of  the  oven  light 
in  gas  stove.  Slice,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  on 
flat  pan  or  pie  plate,  which  has  been  well  greased.  Dredge 
lightly  with  flour,  and  put  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  each  slice. 
Serve  with  a  creamy  white  sauce. 


VEGETABLES  121 


POTATOES. 


Baked  Potatoes. 

Select  medium  sized  potatoes,  as  nearly  as  possible  of 
the  same  shape  and  size.  To  bake  properly,  the  oven  should 
be  very  hot  in  order  to  change  the  starch  to  dextrine  which 
makes  the  baked  potato  more  easily  digested  than  the  boiled. 
This  result  is  not  attained  if  the  oven  is  cool.  Forty  to  forty- 
five  minutes  should  be  ample  time  for  roasting  fairly  large 
potatoes,  and  if  not  to  be  served  at  once,  break  the  skin  of  each 
one  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Otherwise  they  will  become 
soggy.  Some  authorities  recommend  piercing  each  potato 
two  or  three  times  with  a  fork  before  baking;  I  have  not  found 
this  so  good  a  plan  as  breaking  the  skin  afterwards,  an  operation 
easily  accomplished  by  taking  the  potato  in  a  clean  cloth  and 
squeezing  it  between  the  fingers.  Do  not  press  hard  enough 
to  push  the  potato  from  the  skin.  Scrub  well  with  your  vege- 
table scrubbing  brush  before  baking  on  the  grate  of  your  oven. 
Some  persons  use  a  baking  pan,  which  is  not  necessary  if  your 
oven  is  as  clean  as  it  should  be. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Pare  neatly  and  drop  at 
once  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  When  pota- 
toes are  old,  in  the  late  winter,  let  them  remain  in  the  water 
for  an  hour  or  two  before  boiling;  new  potatoes  need  only 
half  an  hour.  Cook  in  boiling  water,  adding  y£  tablespoon 
salt  when  nearly  done.  Do  not  test  with  a  fork,  as  this  is 
liable  to  break  them.  A  metal  skewer  is  the  better  article 
for  this  purpose.  When  done,  drain  well,  return  to  the  fire 
in  a  cool  place  to  dry  out,  leaving  the  kettle  lid  open  a  crack 
for  the  escape  of  steam.  When  dry  and  mealy  looking,  serve 
at  once  with  Parsley  Butter  poured  over  them,  or  without  the 
sauce  if  desired. 

Parsley  Butter 

is   melted   butter   with   a   generous   allowance    of   very   finely 
chopped  parsley  stirred  into  it. 


122  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Potatoes  Boiled  in  Jackets. 

The  Irish  way  of  boiling  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on 
is  a  wise  one,  inasmuch  as  close  to  the  skin  lie  valuable  salts 
which  are  lost  in  the  paring  off  of  the  skin.  There  is  no  way 
comparable  to  this  for  obtaining  a  mealy  boiled  potato.  Re- 
move a  "ribbon"  yi  inch  wide  all  around  the  potato,  put  into 
boiling  water  and  cook  20  minutes,  or  until  tested  with  a  skewer 
you  know  that  they  are  done  to  the  very  centre.  Drain.  In 
the  left  hand  have  a  small  cloth  folded  in  several  thicknesses. 
Lay  a  potato  upon  this;  with  a  knife  pull  off  the  skin  from  one 
side,  turn  over  and  remove  the  other  skin;  keep  very  hot  in  the 
oven  until  ready  to  serve.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  after 
draining,  and  allow  them  to  dry  off  before  peeling. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Use  a  ricer  or  vegetable  press  to  mash  potatoes  rather 
than  the  old-fashioned  wooden  pestle,  to  avoid  lumps.  To  6 
potatoes,  boiled  and  dried  according  to  directions  given  above, 
allow  one  large  tablespoon  butter  and  three  tablespoons  milk. 
Heat  milk  and  butter  in  enameled  bowl,  and  squeeze  potatoes 
through  ricer  into  it,  add  salt  to  taste  and  a  dash  of  pepper, 
beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  light  and  creamy,  set  in  the 
oven  a  few  moments  until  very  hot,  and  pile  lightly  on  a  hot 
dish. 

Kilcannon  Potatoes. 

To  potatoes  prepared  as  above,  add  enough  parsley 
chopped  very  fine,  to  give  the  potatoes  a  decided  green  tinge. 
This  is  an  Irish  recipe,  and  is  recommended  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  cold  meat.  Allow  at  least  two  heaping  tablespoons  of 
the  parsley  to  quantity  of  potato  in  preceding  recipe. 

Duchess  Potatoes. 

To  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  milk.  Beat  until  light  and 
creamy,  fold  in  whipped  whites,  pile  lightly  on  a  well  greased 
platter,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  diluted  with  2  teaspoons 
water  and  brown   in  hot  oven.     Before  adding  the  yolks   of 


VEGETABLES  123 


eggs  take  out  a  small  quantity,  mix  with  a  little  of  the  white 
and  use  for  brushing  over.  Two  teaspoons  of  each  will  be 
sufficient  with  the  water. 

Potato  Omelet. 

Prepare  according  to  preceding  recipe,  adding  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  last.  Pour  into  well  greased  omelet  pan,  cook 
slowly  until  crust  forms  on  bottom.  Turn  over  as  other 
omelets.  It  will  be  necessary  to  raise  edge  of  omelet  and  drop 
into  pan  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  allowing  it  to  run  under  the 
omelet  to  prevent  burning.  This  is  to  be  done  when  the  omelet 
begins  to  set  around  edges. 

Plainfield  Potatoes. 

Select  small  round  potatoes,  pare  neatly,  boil  until  ten- 
der, but  not  falling  apart;  let  them  cool.  Melt  1  tablespoon 
bacon  or  sausage  dripping  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  or  pie 
plate.  When  very  hot  lay  potatoes  in  and  baste  them  with 
the  fat.  Put  into  a  very  hot  oven,  and  cook  until  well  browned, 
basting  frequently  with  the  fat.  If  a  gas  stove  is  in  use,  brown 
under  the  oven  lights,  first  removing  the  broiler. 

Potato  Gone. 

Arrange  mashed  and  well  seasoned  potatoes  in  a  mound, 
on  a  greased  platter.  With  a  spoon  make  a  hole  in  the  top, 
large  enough  to  hold  1  cup  of  sauce,  made  of  }A  cup  melted 
butter,  4  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  yolks  2  eggs  beaten  light, 
pepper  and  salt.  Brush  the  mound  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  and  brown. 

Potatoes  on  Half  Shell. 

Bake  6  large  potatoes.  Cut  in  half  lengthwise,  and  re- 
move carefully  from  the  skin.  Mash  the  potatoes  by  press- 
ing through  the  ricer,  add  one  tablespoon  butter  and  three 
taolespoons  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Whip  whites  of 
two  eggs  until  dry  and  stiff,  fold  into  the  mixture  and  refill 
shells.     Brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten  with  two 


IU  WHATANDHOW 


teaspoons  water,  and  brown  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Grated 
cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  potatoes  instead  of  using 
the  egg. 

Potato  Souffie. 
To  1  pint  riced  potatoes,  add  3  cups  hot  milk  in  which  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  has  been  melted.  Beat  well  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  4  eggs  very  light  and  whip  into 
the  potato  mixture.  Pour  into  a  deep  baking  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  well  set  and  browned.  "Well  set"  means 
the  eggs  cooked  and  combined  with  the  milk. 

Potato  Pudding. 

Slice  raw  potatoes  in  thin  slices  and  lay  in  cold  water  1 
hour.  Drain  and  dry.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of 
a  greased  baking  dish  or  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  chopped  onion.  Repeat  until  dish  is  nearly 
full.  Pour  over  enough  milk  to  cover  well,  and  add  a  gen- 
erous lump  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  two  hours, 
covered  with  a  close  fitting  lid  until  milk  is  absorbed,  un- 
cover and  brown.  This  dish  will  be  ruined  if  the  milk  is  al- 
lowed to  boil.  It  may  be  necessary  to  add  more  milk  at  the 
end  of  the  first  hour.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  raw.  The  ideal  place  to  cook  this,  as  well  as  all  other 
puddings  and  custards,  is  in  the  fireless  cooker,  where  there 
can  be  no  danger  of  the  liquid  boiling. 

Potato  Balls. 

Cut  with  a  French  vegetable  cutter  into  balls.  Put  into 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender,  testing  with  a  wooden 
toothpick.  Drain  and  dry  off.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve 
with  Parsley  Butter,  or  White  Sauce.  Or,  lay  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour,  drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  as  directed 
for  French  fried  potatoes. 

New  Potatoes. 

should  be  scraped,  never  pared,  or  they  may  be  boiled  with  their 
skins  on  and  peeled  afterwards.  This  method  is  very  satisfac- 
tory and  a  labor  saver.  Follow  directions  for  boiled  potatoes, 
serving  over  them  either  White  Sauce  or  Parsley  Butter. 


VEGETABLES  125 


Hashed  Brown  Potatoes. 


Fry  4  slices  bacon  (or  enough  to  give  you  at  least  2  table- 
spoons fat)  remove  from  the  pan  and  keep  hot.  Have  c2  cups 
cold  boilded  or  baked  potatoes  cut  into  tiny  dice,  turn  into 
the  hissing  hot  fat  and  toss  over  and  over  until  potatoes  arc 
brown  and  well  coated  with  fat.  Push  back  to  a  cooler  place 
on  the  stove  and  allow  them  to  cook  slowly  until  crusted  under- 
neath; folded  over  like  an  omelet  and  serve  at  once,  with  the 
bacon. 

lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Fry  2  sliced  onions  in  2  tablespoons  dripping  or  bacon 
fat;  when  soft  but  not  brown,  add  2  cups  cold  cooked  potatoes, 
cut  into  neat  dice.  Toss  with  a  fork  until  hot,  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  brown.  When  thoroughly  heated  add  a  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley,  stir  well,  and  serve  at  once.  If  any  fat  remains 
in  the  pan,  remove  potatoes  with  perforated  spoon  to  avoid 
serving  a  greasy  dish.    Strain  fat  into  your  dripping  can. 

Hashed  Creamed  Potatoes. 

To  1  cup  White  Sauce,  add  2  cups  cold  boiled  or  baked 
potatoes  cut  into  tiny  dice.  Use  an  omelet  pan  large  enough 
to  have  the  mixture  not  over  1  inch  thick.  After  mixing 
well,  set  pan  where  it  is  not  very  hot,  and  cook  slowly  until 
a  crust  forms  underneath.  Raise  the  edge  and  slip  under  it  a 
half  tablespoon  butter,  put  over  the  hot  fire  again  to  brown, 
and  fold  over  as  an  omelet.  Not  only  the  sauce  but  also  the 
potatoes  must  be  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Cook  cold  boiled  or  baked  potatoes  cut  into  neat  dice 
with  White  Sauce  .and  add  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley- 
Raw  potatoes  may  be  cut  into  dice,  boiled  and  mixed  with 
White  Sauce,  but  are  not  so  good  nor  so  easily  made  as  the 
cold  cooked  ones  are.  The  dice  lose  their  shape  in  boiling, 
and  have  an  entirely  different  flavor. 


126  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Potatoes  au  Gratin. 

Put  creamed  potatoes  in  well  greased  pudding  dish,  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  long 
enough  to  heat  through  and  brown  crumbs.  Grated  cheese 
may  be  sprinkled  between  layers  of  potatoes  and  over  top 
before  crumbs  go  on. 

Potato  Cakes. 

Form  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  small  flat  cakes,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  in  omelet  pan  in  a  small  quantity  fat,  preferably 
bacon  or  ham  drippings. 

Saute  Potatoes. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. 

Peel  potatoes,  cut  into  strips  lengthwise  and  lay  in  cold 
water  for  at  least  an  hour.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  This  is 
best  accomplished  by  spreading  a  clean  towel  on  the  table, 
laying  the  pieces  of  potato  on  it,  and  covering  with  another 
towel.  Pat  dry.  Any  moisture  remaining  on  the  potatoes 
will  cause  trouble  when  it  comes  into  contact  with  the  hot 
fat. 

Have  ready  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  Crisco  or  other  fat, 
very  hot.  Test  according  to  directions  for  frying  raw  material. 
Drop  in  the  potatoes  a  few  at  a  time,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Drain  on  absorbent  paper  to  remove  all  grease,  and  serve  on 
a  hot  dish  garnished  with  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley.  Make  very 
sure  that  your  fat  is  just  the  right  temperature,  if  too  hot,  the 
potatoes  will  brown  before  cooking  through. 

Saratoga  Chips 

are  prepared  and  fried  just  as  the  French  fried,  except  that 
they  are  cut  into  very  thin  slices  instead  of  strips. 

Latticed  or  Waffled  Potatoes 

are  cut  with  a  little  instrument  which  comes  for  the  purpose, 
and  are  prepared  and  fried  as  above. 


VEGETABLES  127 


SWEET  POTATOES. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Bake  according  to  directions  given  for  baking  white  pota- 
toes, allowing  more  time. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Only  when  sweet  potatoes  are  new  are  they  suitable  for 
serving  boiled.  In  the  winter  they  may  be  boiled,  but  need 
glazing  or  thorough  drying  in  the  oven  to  remove  the  water. 
Boil  with  skins  on,  and  remove  these  before  serving.  They 
may  be  peeled  before  boiling,  but  it  is  not  easy  to  do. 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil,  peel  and  press  through  the  ricer.  Season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  moisten  with  a  little  hot  cream  or  milk. 
Beat  until  light,  set  bowl  in  oven  to  heat  the  potatoes,  and 
pile  lightly  on  a  hot  dish.  Or,  you  may  serve  them  simply  as 
they  come  from  the  ricer,  in  which  case  they  must  be  seasoned 
after  serving  on  the  plates. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style. 

Bake  6  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes,  cut  in  half  length- 
wise, and  scoop  out  inside.  Mash,  through  the  ricer,  add  2 
tablespoons  (level)  butter  and  cream  to  moisten.  Season  with 
salt  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Refill  skins  and  bake  5  minutes 
in  hot  oven. — Miss  Farmar's  Cooking  School  Book. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Glazed. 

Boil,  peel  and  cut  into  thick  slices  lengthwise.  Lay  in 
an  enameled  pie  plate  or  shallow  baking  dish,  with  slices  of 
bacon.  Cover  with  brown  sugar  and  cook  in  hot  oven  until 
bacon  is  crisp,  remove  it  and  baste  potatoes  with  the  fat  until 
brown.  Bacon  fat  can  be  laid  over  the  potatoes  with  a  knife, 
instead   of  using  the  slices. 


128  WHATANDHOW 


Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 

1  pint  boiled  and  mashed  sweet  4  eggs 

potato  yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

}/2  cup  butter  Juice  and  grated  rind  1  lemon 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  A  dash  of  nutmeg. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs, 
the  flavorings  and  the  sweet  potatoes,  fold  in  the  whites  of 
eggs,  whipped  stiff  and  dry,  turn  into  buttered  bake  dish,  and 
cook  in  hot  oven  until  brown  and  well  set,  which  will  take 
about  15  minutes. 


Sweet  Potatoes  ail  Gratin. 

Parboil  potatoes  10  minutes,  peel  and  slice.  Put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  dish,  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  dot  with  butter.  Sprinkle  lightly  with 
fine  crumbs.  Repeat,  making  the  top  layer  of  buttered 
crumbs.  Pour  in  4  tablespoons  hot  water,  cover  closely  and 
bake  14.  hour.     Uncover  and  brown. 


Sweet  Potato  Puff. 

2  cups  boiled  and  riced  sweet         1  cup  milk 

potato  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

3  eggs  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  butter  and  potatoes.  Beat  hard 
and  season.  Bake  in  greased  bake  dish  20  minutes,  or  until 
brown. 

Sweet  Potato  Balls. 

Cut  with  ball  cutter,  and  lay  in  shallow  baking  dish,  or 
pie  plate.  Make  a  syrup  of  4  tablespoons  molasses  and  2 
teaspoons  of  butter  boiled  5  minutes;  pour  over  the  balls  and 
bake  covered  until  balls  are  tender.  Uncover  and  brown. 
Or,  make  the  syrup  of  >£  cup  brown  sugar,  and  4  tablespoons 
water,  boiled  3  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  pour 
over  the  balls.  This  syrup  is  richer  and  more  delicate  in  flavor 
than  the  first.  Remove  from  syrup  and  serve.  The  syrup  may 
be  used  a  second  time.  This  dish  may  be  prepared,  set  aside, 
reheated  and  served  when  desired. 


VEGETABLES  129 


Savoy  Potatoes. 

Boil,  peel,  and  cut  into  slices  across,  3  large  sweet  pota- 
toes. Lay  in  shallow  baking  dish,  dredge  with  2  teaspoons 
flour,  sprinkle  with  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  pinch  of  salt,  and 
3  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  3  tablespoons  cream,  with  >£  cup 
hot  water,  pour  it  over  the  potatoes  and  bake  with  a  close 
cover  >2  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


130  WHAT     AND    HOW 


CHAPTER  XI 

SALADS. 

Of  little  nutritive  value  in  themselves,  the  salad  plants, 
lettuce,  watercress,  celery,  etc.,  are  of  distinct  value  to  the 
system  inasmuch  as  in  their  preparation  into  salads,  in  com- 
bination with  fruit,  vegetables,  fish  or  meat  combined  with 
the  olive  oil  which  enters  so  largely  into  their  proper  dressing, 
they  furnish  nourishment,  are  refreshing  in  hot  weather  espe- 
cially, and  on  account  of  the  mineral  salts  and  large  percentage 
of  water,  are  excellent  blood  purifiers.  They  should  not  be 
prepared  too  long  before  using,  for  their  charm  lies  in  their 
crispness  and  icy  coldness  (see  lettuce  page  109)  and  must  not 
remain  in  a  warm  place  after  mixing,  as  the  dressing  will  dis- 
integrate and  the  lettuce  wilt.  Salad  is  often  dressed  in  a 
bowl  at  the  table,  in  which  case  the  vinegar  should  be  poured 
over  last.  Rub  the  bowl  with  a  cut  onion  and  have  it  very 
cold.  Left  over  vegetables  should  be  marinated  separately 
before  combining  in  salad,  and  every  opportunity  should  be 
grasped  to  use  these  vegetables  in  this  manner. 


SALAD  DRESSINGS. 

French  Dressing. 

In  a  small  jar  with  a  screw  top  and  a  rubber  ring,  put  ^ 
an  onion,  ]/2  cup  salad  oil,  y^  cup  vinegar,  yi  teaspoon  salt,  % 
teaspoon  pepper,  %  teaspoon  paprika  and  ^  teaspoon  sugar. 
Screw  on  the  top  and  shake  vigorously  until  it  is  thick.  This 
is  an  easy  way  to  make  French  dressing,  and  is  most  conven- 
ient, as  it  will  keep  for  days  in  the  jar,  and  only  needs  a  good 
shaking  to  be  ready  for  use.  Of  course  it  must  be  kept  in  a 
cool    place. 

Mayonnaise. 

To  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  add  y*  teaspoon  of  salt  and  beat. 
Add  1  tablespoon  vinegar  and  beat  until  smooth.  Measure  1 
cup  oil,  add  it  1  teaspoon  at  a  time,  beating  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens,  when  it  may  be  added  by  the  tablespoonful. 


SALADS  131 


When  all  the  oil  has  been  used,  add  2  tablespoons  boiling  water 
and  chill  on  ice.  Mayonnaise  made  according  to  this  recipe  will 
keep  for  two  weeks  in  the  refrigerator.  Have  oil  and  bowl 
very    cold. 

Chili  Dressing. 

6  tablespoons  oil  }4.  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  X  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  X  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  Chili  Sauce 

Put  into  a  jar  and  shake  until  thick. 

Cream  Dressing. 

For  those  to  whom  oil  is  distasteful  this  recipe  is  given. 
Beat  two  eggs,  separately;  to  the  yolks  add  yi  teaspoon 
mustard,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  3  tablespoons 
cream.  Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  until  dry  and  stiff,  and  fold 
in. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing. 

Sour  cream  dressing  is  most  delicious  for  cucumbers.  1 
cup  sour  cream  whipped  for  5  minutes  with  the  Dover  egg 
beater,  or  mayonnaise  mixer.  To  this  add,  while  beating,  1 
tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  ^2 
teaspoon  salt  and  2  drops  Tobasco.  Have  cream  very  cold 
and  not  too  thick  or  you  may  obtain  butter  instead  of  whipped 
cream. 

Boiled  Cream  Dressing. 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg,  slightly  beaten 

1  teaspoon  mustard  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

]/2  tablespoon  sugar  yi  cup  milk 

yi  cup  vinegar 

Mix  in  order  given,  adding  vinegar  carefully.  Cook  over 
boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  If  cooked 
too  long  the  mixture  is  likely  to  curdle,  therefore  if  it  does  not 
thicken  quickly  a  teaspoon  of  corn  starch  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  milk  may  be  added. 

Plain  Salads. 

Lettuce  and  water  cress,  washed  thoroughly  and  dried, 
may    be    served    without    any    accompaniment    save    French 


132  WHAT    AND    HOW 


dressing,  or  they  may  be  used  in  combination  with  radishes  cut 
in  thin  slices,  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  or  cucumbers  sliced 
very  thin  or  cut  into  dice.  Lettuce  leaves  may  be  dipped  in 
French  dressing  and  sprinkled  with  chopped  nuts  or  hard 
boiled  egg9  chopped  fine. 

Daisy  Salad. 

Cut  a  cream  cheese  into  %  inch  slices  and  lay  each  disc 
on  a  lettuce  leaf,  Or  divide  the  cheese  into  6  portions.  Boil  2 
eggs  for  20  minutes,  throw  into  cold  water.  Remove  shells, 
take  out  yolks  and  rub  through  fine  sieve.  Chop  whites  very 
small.  On  each  round  of  cheese  put  ]4.  teaspoon  of  the  pow- 
dered yolk  right  in  the  centre,  and  surround  the  cheese  with 
a  circle  of  the  chopped  whites.     Cover  with  French  dressing. 

Cucumber  Cups. 

Peel  cucumber  and  cut  into  rounds  about  IK  inches  thick. 
Remove  seeds,  and  place  rounds  on  lettuce  leaves,  one  to  each 
person.    Fill  cups  with  Sauce  Tartare,  or  plain  Mayonnaise. 

Cucumber  Boats. 

6  well  shaped  medium  sized  cucumbers.  Cut  a  slice  from 
each  one  lengthwise,  and  scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  a  shell 
to  be  refilled.  Chop  the  pulp  and  drain  well,  squeezing  out 
the  water.  Add  the  pulp  to  1  cup  Sour  Cream  Dressing,  add 
4  stuffed  olives  chopped  fine,  and  put  on  the  ice  for  an  hour 
at  least.  Fill  the  shells,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
serve  with  a  fish  course.  The  shells  should  be  as  thin  as  possible 
to  make  them  without  breaking  through. 

Asparagus  Salad. 

Use  tender  portions  of  asparagus,  the  pieces  discarded 
will  serve  for  soup.  The  tips  used,  should  be  about  3  inches 
long.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaf,  and  bind  around  with  a  strip 
of  bright  red  pepper  (sweet).  Serve  with  French  dressing. 
Or,  if  you  can  obtain  a  whole  pepper  (fresh)  you  may  cut  rings 
from  it  and  slip  asparagus  through.  (See  recipe  for  canning 
peppers.) 


SALADS  13:5 


Asparagus  Tips. 

For  a  winter  salad,  buy  a  can  of  asparagus  tips,  or  if 
whole  asparagus,  cut  the  tips  off  and  use  remainder  for  soup. 
It  will  be  necessary  to  open  can  several  hours  before  using, 
exposing  to  the  air  so  that  the  flavor  of  the  can  will  escape. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  canned  pimento  cut  into  dice, 
and  cover  with  French  dressing. 

Apple  and  Nut  Salad. 

Select  6  well  shaped  and  bright  red  apples,  wash  and 
polish  the  skin.  Scoop  out  inside,  leaving  a  wall  thick  enough 
to  avoid  danger  of  making  holes  in  it  while  removing  pulp. 
Mix  equal  parts  chopped  celery  and  walnuts  (broken  into 
small  pieces)  with  Mayonnaise  and  fill  the  apple  cups  with 
the  mixture.    Serve  very  cold,  on  leaf  of  lettuce  or  bed  of  cress. 

Cauliflower  Salad. 

1  small  head  cauliflower,  boiled.  Separate  into  flowerets 
before  cooking.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 
Dip  lettuce  in  the  dressing  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  grated 
cheese  before  placing  the  flowerets  on  it. 

Celery  Salad. 

Celery,  cut  fine  may  be  served  alone,  or  with  chopped 
apples,  olives,  or  nuts,  or  combined  with  all  three.  Mayonnaise 
is  better  for  celery —though  French  dressing  may  be  used. 

Cucumber  Jelly  Salad. 

2  cucumbers,  peeled  and  cut  in  Salt  and  pepper 

slices  1  tablespoon  gelatin,  dissolved  in 

1  slice  onion  warm  water 

1  pint  cold  water  French  dressing 

1  cucumber,  sliced 

Simmer  the  two  cucumbers  with  seasonings  in  the  pint 
of  water  until  soft.  Add  the  gelatin.  Line  a  mould  with  the 
sliced  cucumber,  pour  in  the  jelly  slowly  and  chill.  When 
cold  and  firm  turn  out  on  lettuce  and  serve  with  French  dress- 
ing.   This  is  most  attractive  when  chilled  in  individual  moulds 


134  WHATANDHOW 


and  served  garnished  with  red  peppers.  This  recipe  is  taken 
from  "The  Hostess  of  To-day."  1  would  add  as  a  suggestion 
the  use  of  a  few  drops  Pistache  green  coloring. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

1  pint  tomatoes  4  cloves 

1  bay  leaf  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  slices  onions  X  teaspoon  paprika 

Dash  of  pepper 

Simmer  all  ingredients  together  10  minutes  and  rub 
through  sieve.  Do  not  boil  rapidly,  the  slow  cooking  will 
extract  the  seasonings  better.  Add  \}i  tablespoons  gelatin, 
which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  to  cover  until  soft.  Stir 
until  gelatin  is  dissolved,  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  pour 
into  small  moulds  for  invididual  serves,  or  in  a  deep  pie  plate 
(enameled)  to  be  cut  into  cubes  when  firm.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  French  dressing  in  combination  with  cream  cheese,  cel- 
ery, chopped  olives,  or  sliced  fresh  tomatoes.  It  is  a  delicious 
salad    of    itself. 

White  Grapes  and  Nuts. 

Skin  grapes,  cut  in  half  and  remove  seeds.  There  is  a 
delicious  little  white  grape  that  is  seedless,  and  with  so  tender 
a  skin  that  it  does  not  need  peeling.  Mix  with  Mayonnaise 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  chopped  nuts. 

Cherry  Salad. 

2  cups  cherries,  stoned  Mayonnaise  dressing,  made  with 

1  cup  celery,  shredded  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar 

Put  a  pecan  or  peanut  in  each  cherry,  make  a  ring 
of  celery  moistened  with  Mayonnaise  around  the  cherries  on 
a  lettuce  leaf,  and  dot  the  cherries  with  mayonnaise.  Canned 
cherries,  if  a  good  color  may  be  used,  while  Maraschino  cherries 
excel  either  the  fresh  or  canned,  though  of  course  more  expen- 
sive.   See  Cherries,  pickled,  in  Chapter  XXVII. 

Chiffonade  Salad. 

Chop  very  fine,  ^  green  pepper,  and  y2  red  pepper,  cut 
the  pulp  from  one  grape  fruit,  shred  1  cup  celery  and  a  head 


SALADS  135 


of  romaine  or  lettuce,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  French 
dressing.  Serve  on  salad  plates  with  fresh  tomatoes  peeled  and 
cut  in  lengthwise  sections  and  dipped  into  French  dressing. 

Egg  Salad  I. 

Cook  6  eggs  20  minutes,  boiling  gently;  drop  into  cold 
water  and  remove  shells.  Cut  in  half,  crosswise.  With  scis- 
sors, cut  the  white  cups  in  points,  mash  yolks  and  add  minced 
chicken  or  tongue  (about  2  tablespoons),  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  %  teaspoon  salt,  and  moisten  with  a  little  cream.  Re- 
fill cups,  serve  on  lettuce  with  French  Dressing. 

Egg  Salad  II. 

Boil  6  eggs  gently  for  20  minutes,  throw  into  cold  water, 
shell  and  keep  on  ice  until  needed.  To  1  cup  Mayonnaise,  add 
2  tablespoons  canned  salmon  rubbed  into  a  smooth  paste,  or 
5  large  sardines  skinned  and  mashed.  Cut  the  eggs  in  4  length- 
wise sections  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  cress  or  lettuce  with  the 
Mayonnaise  put  over  them. 

Egg  Salad  III. 

After  boiling  and  shelling  as  directed  above,  chop  the 
whites  very  fine,  and  rub  yolks  through  a  wire  sieve.  Dip  let- 
tuce leaves  into  French  dressing  and  arrange  on  plates. 
Sprinkle  with  the  yolks  and  arrange  the  whites  in  a  mound 
or  ring,  with  a  stuffed  olive  in  the  centre. 

Devilled  Eggs. 

Put  eggs  on  stove  in  cold  water  and  boil  20  minutes.  If 
boiled  too  rapidly  the  yolk  settles  on  one  side,  hence  the  cold 
water.  When  boiled  and  cold,  cut  in  half  lengthwise  and  re- 
move the  yolks.  Mash  fine  with  a  fork  and  rub  smooth  with 
a  little  cold  water.  Add  small  piece  of  butter  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  kitchen  bouquet.  Refill  eggs  and  put  two 
halves  together. 


136  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Tomato  Salad  I. 

Staid  and  peel  6  tomatoes,  large  and  well  shaped.  Re- 
move core,  sprinkle  with  very  finely  chopped  parsley  and  fill 
cavity  with  Mayonnaise.     Serve  on  lettuce. 

Tomato  Salad  II. 

Hothouse  tomatoes  may  be  had  of  very  tiny  size,  no 
larger  than  a  walnut.  Peel  carefully  and  serve  2  on  each  plate, 
with  balls  of  Neufchatel  cheese  on  each  side.  Pour  French 
dressing  over  them. 

Tomato  Salad  III. 

Select  medium  sized  well  rounded  tomatoes.  Remove  a 
slice  from  the  top  and  scoop  out  the  core  and  part  of  the  pulp, 
just  as  much  as  can  safely  be  scraped  from  the  shell  without 
danger  of  breaking  it.  Drain  dry.  Cut  a  cucumber,  after 
peeling,  into  slices  ^  inch  thick  and  let  lay  in  water  for  an 
hour.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  into  tiny  dice,  mix  with 
tomato  pulp  and  refill  shells.  Top  with  a  liberal  spoonful 
Mayonnaise  on  top  of  which  sprinkle  powdered  parsley. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  Do  not  peel  tomatoes,  but  wash  well 
and   polish. 

Tomato  and  Crab. 

Crab  meat,  or  shrimps  may  be  mixed  with  Mayonnaise 
and  served  in  tomatoes  prepared  as  in  preceding  recipe. 

Chicken  Salad  I. 

Cut  cold  boiled  chicken  into  neat  pieces  of  uniform  size, 
add  equal  quantity  of  celery  cut  into  pieces  of  same  size  as 
chicken.  A  little  care  in  the  cutting  makes  the  salad  more 
attractive.  Mix  thoroughly,  sprinkle  liberally  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  serving  time,  when  the 
Mayonnaise  may  be  stirred  in.  Capers  may  be  added.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  celery  tops  and  thin  strips  of  red  pepper.  (See 
page   297.) 

Chicken  Salad  II. 

Prepare  chicken  and  celery  as  in  Chicken  Salad  I,  and  use 
the  following  dressing  instead  of  Mayonnaise. 


SALADS  137 


Take  Tj  cup  of  rich  stock  obtained  by  boiling  down  sonic 
of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled.  Add  Yz  cup 
vinegar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  little  mustard  mixed  with  part  of 
the  vinegar,  y±  teaspoon  pepper  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thoroughly  heated.  Mix  1  teaspoon  corn  starch  with  a  little 
cold  water,  add  to  the  mixture  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick.  Beat  well  until  perfectly  smooth,  add  ]4  cup  milk 
and  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  cool  before  using.  Add 
more  salt  if  salad  needs  it  after  mixing.  This  receipe  is  for 
use  when  Mayonnaise  is  objectionable  on  account  of  the  oil. 

Salade  a  la  Chanticler. 

Mould  tomato  jelly  in  a  round  bottomed  bowl,  and  turn 
out  on  a  bed  of  cress  or  lettuce.  Surround  with  a  ring,  show- 
ing green  between  it  and  the  tomato  jelly,  of  chopped  nuts 
and  sliced  stuffed  olives,  which  have  been  previously  sprinkled 
well  with  French  dressing.  Make  a  third  ring  of  lettuce  hearts, 
dipped  in  French  dressing  and  sprinkled  with  yolks  of  hard 
boiled  eggs  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve.  Arrange  the  whites 
of  eggs,  chopped  very  fine,  over  the  green  showing  between 
the  mound  and  first  ring.  Arrange  long  strips  of  canned  sweet 
pepper  (see  recipe)  on  the  lettuce  leaves  on  outside  of  lettuce 
hearts.  To  serve,  cut  mound  of  jelly  in  slices,  place  on  two  or 
three  of  the  lettuce  hearts  for  each  plate,  put  nuts  and  olives 
on  top  of  tomato  slice,  serve  a  strip  of  pepper  on  each  plate, 
and  pass  Mayonnaise.  This  is  an  attractive  dish  for  informal 
luncheon  and  after  theatre  suppers. 

Bellevue  Salad. 

Cut  tomato  jelly  into  cubes.  Sprinkle  with  sweet  green 
pepper  chopped  very  fine  and  place  a  stuffed  olive  in  the  center 
of  each  plate.  Serve  with  French  dressing  or  Mayonnaise  as 
desired. 

Christmas  Salad. 

Using  the  canned  pepper  strips  and  tomato  jelly  as  di- 
rected in  preceding  recipes,  mould  the  jelly  in  small  coffee 
cups  or  any  small  moulds  for  individual  serves,  and  turn  out 
on  lettuce  leaves.     Make  balls  the  size  of  a  large  hickory  nut, 


138  WHATANDHOW 


from  cream  cheese  or  Neufchatel.  Take  small  wooden  tooth- 
picks and  tie  a  bow  of  narrow  red  ribbon  on  the  end  of  each. 
Stick  these  into  the  cheese  balls,  previously  sprinkled  with 
paprika.  Serve  three  on  each  plate,  the  toothpicks  serving  as 
handles  for  eating  the  balls.  Decorate  further  with  the  strips 
of  pepper,  in  rings  or  scallops  over  the  lettuce.  French  dress- 
ing. 

Spring  Salad. 

Mould  cucumber  jelly,  colored  with  Pistache  Green,  in 
small  individual  glasses  or  cups.  Arrange  with  cheese  balls 
as  directed  in  preceding  recipe,  using  pale  green  ribbon  on 
toothpicks,  and  cucumber  dice,  instead  of  strips  of  peppers. 
French  dressing.  Omit  paprika,  keeping  the  color  scheme 
white  and  green. 

Potato  Salad  I. 

3  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

into  small  dice  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  minced  parsley  French  dressing 

Mix  potatoes  with  parsley  and  onion  until  they  are  well 
coated,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  enough  French 
dressing  to  moisten  well.  Put  into  a  Mason  preserve  jar  with 
tight  lid,  and  keep  on  the  ice  for  several  hours  before  using. 
This  is  better  the  day  after  it  is  made,  and  will  keep  for  sev- 
eral days  on  ice.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  too  much  dressing,  it 
must  not  be  dry.  Serve  on  lettuce,  and  pour  over  it  any  dress- 
ing remaining  in  the  jar. 

Potato  Salad  II. 

Have  potatoes  boiled,  cold  and  diced,  or  sliced.  Mix  with 
the  following  dressing:  Mash  the  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  rub  smooth  with  a  little  water.  Add  ]/2  teaspoon  mustard, 
1>2  cup  vinegar,  ]4  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  dash  of 
cayenne  and  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick,  add  well  whipped  white  of  egg,  when  cool.  This  dress- 
ing is  excellent  for  cold  slaw.  Cut  the  recipe  in  half  for  small 
dish  of  salad. 


SALADS  L89 


Macedoine  Salad  I. 
Use  for  this  any  combination  of  loft  over  vegetables,  and 

put  away  in  a  cold  place  as  directed  for  potato  salad,  with 
plenty  of  dressing.  One  of  the  best  inaccdoines  is  made  with 
peas,  celery,  string  beans  and  red  beets  in  equal  quantities. 
Cut  celery  in  small  pieces,  beans  in  inch  lengths  and  beets  into 
the  tiniest  of  dice.  Mix  with  French  dressing.  Or,  if  you 
choose  to  take  extra  trouble,  chill  the  vegetables  thoroughly 
and  separately.  Arrange  on  lettuce  in  4  sections,  the  2  greens 
opposite  each  other,  and  separate  sections  with  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley.    French  dressing. 

Macedoine  II. 

On  six  salad  plates,  arrange  the  lettuce  for  individual 
serves.  In  the  centre  put  the  red  beets,  against  them  the 
celery,  next  the  peas,  then  arrange  the  chopped  whites  of 
c2  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  outside  this,  the  beans.  Sprinkle  over 
all  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve  and  dot 
with  Mayonnaise.  Strips  of  canned  red  peppers  make  a  pretty 
garnish  for  this  salad. 

Salmon  Moulds. 

2  cups  canned  salmon,  freed  from  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

skin,  fat  and  bones  2  drops  tobasco  sauce 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  ]/$  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  with 
Boiled  Dressing. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  creamed  1  teaspoon  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  each,  salt,  paprika 
and  mustard 

Mix  thoroughly  and  add  K  Cup  hot  milk.  Pour  slowly 
over  2  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten,  and  cook  in  double  boiler, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Strain  and  stir 
in  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  gradually,  and  1  tablespoon  granu- 
lated gelatin  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  hot  water.  Pour  over 
fish  and  when  well  mixed  together,  mould  in  individual 
shapes  and  set  on  the  ice  for  at  least  3  hours  before  serving. 
Turn    out   on    lettuce   leaves   and   serve    with    tiny   tomatoes 


140  WHATANDHOW 


whole,  or  sliced  tomatoes.  Use  either  French  dressing  or 
Mayonnaise.  Or,  mould  in  a  large  shape,  or  ring  mould  if 
preferred. 

Halibut  Salad. 

Boil  a  slice  of  halibut  and  cool.  With  2  silver  forks, 
break  it  into  flakes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
on  lettuce  with  Mayonnaise.  Chopped  celery  may  be  added 
if    desired. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Cut  the  meat  from  a  freshly  boiled  lobster,  into  small 
dice,  using  a  sharp  knife  to  avoid  tearing  the  flesh.  Use  y$ 
as  much  celery  as  you  have  lobster,  and  this  must  be  cut  in 
pieces  not  over  ^  inch  long.  Mix  celery  and  lobster, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and 
stir  and  toss  until  seasonings  are  well  distributed.  Mix  with 
thick  Mayonnaise  when  ready  to  serve  and  not  before,  keep- 
ing both  lobster  and  dressing  on  the  ice  meanwhile.  Serve 
in  a  bowl,  which  has  been  chilled,  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and 
garnish  with  the  claws  of  the  lobster,  and  the  coral  rubbed 
through  fine  sieve. 

Crab  Salad. 

Crab  salad  is  made  as  above,  using  shredded  lettuce  in- 
stead of  celery. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

Open  a  can  of  shrimps  an  hour  before  using,  wash  well, 
split  open,  remove  intestine,  and  set  them  on  the  ice.  Serve 
with  sliced  tomatoes  on  lettuce  with  Mayonnaise,  and  garnish 
with  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

One  can  Hawaiian  sliced  pineapple  holds  eight  slices.  Ar- 
range each  slice  on  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce  and  pour  over 
it  either  French  dressing  or  fruit  dressing  as  given  below.  Use 
pickled  or  Maraschino  Cherries  for  garnish. 


SALADS  141 


Fruit  Dressing. 

Instead  of  a  French  dressing,  try  this  for  a  change.  One 
teaspoon  sugar,  a  dash  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  5  drops  to 
basco  sauce,  4  tablespoons  olive  oil  and  2  tablespoons  lemon 
or  lime  juice.  Put  into  a  bottle  and  shake  until  thick.  Es- 
pecially  good    over   bananas. 

A  Fruit  Salad. 

With  a  pair  of  scissors,  cut  lettuce  leaves  into  strips  and 
arrange  in  piles  on  salad  plates  with  a  "nest"  in  the  centre  to 
hold  the  fruit.  Cut  pineapple  in  very  small  cubes,  cut  white 
grapes  in  half  and  remove  seeds,  and  oranges  in  small  neat 
pieces.  This  is  best  done  with  scissors.  Save  two  sections 
of  orange  whole  for  each  plate.  Cover  with  French  dressing 
and  top  off  with  Maraschino  cherries  if  desired. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

Mix  equal  quantities  finely  cut  celery  and  apple,  and 
moisten  with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  this  on  lettuce 
leaves  garnished  with  strips  of  pimento,  or  in  apple  cups,  made 
by  scooping  out  pulp  from  attractive  looking  apples,  leaving  just 
enough  apple  inside  to  hold  the  skin  in  shape.  Green  peppers 
may  also  be  used  as  cups  to  hold  this  salad. 


142  WHAT    AND     HOW 

CHAPTER  XII 

COLD  DESSERTS. 
Rice  Pudding. 

1  quart  milk  ^  cup  rice 

]A,  cup  sugar 

Wash  the  rice  well,  stir  into  the  milk,  add  sugar  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  dish.  The  oven  must  be  very  moderate,  to  cook 
the  pudding  so  slowly  that  the  milk  does  not  boil.  In  about 
15  minutes,  a  crust  should  have  formed,  which  must  be  stirred 
down;  at  the  same  time,  lift  the  rice  from  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  and  stir  it  well.  Do  this  every  15  minutes  for  1  hour. 
Now  let  it  bake  without  stirring  yi  hour,  by  which  time  a  rich 
brown  crust  should  have  formed  and  the  pudding  be  a 
creamy  mass.  If  directions  are  carefully  followed,  you  will 
succeed  in  making  the  real  old-fashioned  rice  pudding,  but  it 
must  cook  slowly  for  \x/2  hours  without  drying  up.  Raisins, 
seeded,  may  be  added  if  desired,  %  cup  to  quantities  given 
above. 

Prune  Pudding. 

Wash  thoroughly  one  pound  prunes,  cover  with  hot 
water  and  keep  on  back  of  stove,  closely  covered  where  the 
water  will  keep  hot  without  boiling.  When  the  prunes  are 
swelled  until  perfectly  smooth,  drain,  remove  the  stones  and 
chop.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  very  stiff,  adding  gradu- 
ally 1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  then  stir  in 
chopped  prunes.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  bake  20 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oyen.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or  Custard 
Sauce. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

4  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter,  soft 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  milk 

2  cups  dried  bread  crumbs 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  until  light,  add  sugar  and  butter,  and 
when  well  mixed,  stir  in  the  milk.  Now  beat  in  the  crumbs 
and  bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish.  (See  directions  for  bak- 
ing custards.)  When  baked,  spread  with  a  layer  of  marmal- 
ade, jelly  or  jam,  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten 


COLD     DESSERTS  143 


whites  of  eggs  and  }A  cup  powdered  sugar.  Sift  powdered  sugar 
over  the  meringue  and  set  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown  slightly. 
This  is  well  named,  and  albeit  a  little  old-fashioned,  is  always 
a  welcome  dish. 

Apple  Meringue. 

4  cups  apple  sauce  3  eggs 

1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon  butter  melted 

! ,  cup  sherry  wine  Juice  and  half  the  grated  rind 

of  1  lemon 

Make  apple  sauce  according  to  directions;  it  must  be 
thick  and  free  from  lumps.  With  a  wire  spoon,  beat  it 
until  light  and  creamy.  Add  crumbs  and  butter,  the 
wine  and  lemon  juice.  Lastly  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat 
hard  for  one  minute  by  the  clock,  and  bake  in  buttered  dish, 
covered,  for  >£  hour.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Return  to 
oven  and  brown  lightly.    Serve  very  cold. 


Rhubarb  Betty. 

Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs; 
cover  with  a  layer  of  stewed  and  sweetened  rhubarb.  Repeat 
these  layers  until  dish  is  full,  cover  with  a  layer  of  buttered 
crumbs  and  cook  long  enough  to  heat  thoroughly  and  brown 
crumbs.     Moderate  oven. 

Brown  Betty  I. 

2  cups  chopped  apples  Butter 

1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  Cinnamon 

Sugar 

Peel  apples,  chop  or  cut  into  thin  slices.  Rub  crumbs 
through  colander;  they  should  be  bread  from  the  center  of 
a  loaf,  not  dry.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  a  layer  of  apples 
on  the  bottom  of  it,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  dot  with  small 
bits  of  butter.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full.  The  top  layer  must  be  buttered  crumbs.  Bake 
half  an  hour  covered,  uncover  and  brown.  It  will  brown  very 
quickly  under  the  oven  flame  of  a  gas  stove. 


144  WHATANDHOW 


Brown  Betty  II. 

Arrange  the  apples  as  in  recipe  preceding,  omitting 
sugar.  Bake  yi  hour.  Beat  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  sugar 
together  until  smooth.  Add  1  cup  milk,  and  pour  over  the 
pudding  when  the  apples  are  tender.  Return  to  oven  and 
cook  until  a  rich  golden  brown.  It  should  take  about  1.5 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Stewed  Apples. 

If  apples,  peaches  or  rhubarb  are  cooked  very  slowly  in 
an  earthern  ware  pot  with  a  tight  lid,  they  assume  a  fine  red 
color,  and  make  a  richer  stew  than  when  cooked  in  the  usual 
way.  Put  them  into  a  casserole,  cook  15  minutes  on  the  fire 
and  put  into  the  fireless  cooker  for  6  hours  or  longer.  If  you  are 
without  a  fireless  cooker,  cook  in  a  very  moderate  oven  2  hours. 


Apple  Custard. 

\yi  cups  grated  raw  apple  2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract  1  pint  milk 

Make  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  salt  and  corn 
starch  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  milk.  When  thick  and 
smooth  add  the  apple  and  flavoring.  Pour  into  custard  cups, 
cover  with  meringue  and  brown  in  oven. 


Chocolate  Bread  Pudding. 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  %  cup  sugar 

4  cups  scalded  milk  2  eggs 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  bread  in  milk  thirty  minutes;  melt  chocolate  in 
saucepan  placed  over  hot  water,  add  >2  cup  sugar  and  enough 
milk  taken  from  bread  and  milk  to  make  of  consistency  to 
pour,  add  to  mixture  with  remaining  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and 
eggs  slightly  beaten;  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  and 
bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Hard  or  any 
pudding    sauce. 


COLD     DESSERTS  145 


Bread  Pudding  I. 

Soak  a  pint  of  fine  crumbs  in  1  quart  milk  for  two  hours, 
stir  in  4  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
]/2  teaspoon  soda  (scant)  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water, 
turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  bake  covered  for  half  an  hour, 
then  uncover  and  brown.  Make  a  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar  and  flavored  with 
vanilla.  Pile  on  the  pudding  when  baked  and  brown  slightly 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

If  liked  yi  cup  seeded  raisings  may  be  added  to  this  pud- 
ding; let  them  soak  with  the  bread  in  the  milk. 

Bread  Pudding  II. 

Scald  1  quart  milk,  beat  3  eggs  slightly,  with  >2  cup 
sugar.  Pour  the  hot  milk  gradually  over  this,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Add  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  triangles  of  buttered  bread  cut  very 
thin,  sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg.  Set  in  a  shallow  pan 
of  water,  which  should  be  boiling  when  put  into  the  oven, 
but  not  allowed  to  boil  afterward.  Water  should  be 
kept  as  hot  as  possible  without  boiling.  Bake  from  thirty 
to  forty -five  minutes.  The  custard  is  done  when  a  silver 
knife  thrust  into  it  will  come  out  clean.  If  baked  too  long 
or  too  quickly,  the  custard  will  break.  Serve  with  Caramel 
Sauce. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

4  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  corn  starch 

5  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  or 

1  cup  sugar  2  squares  melted  over  h©t  water 

Make  a  custard  of  milk,  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar.  With 
a  little  cold  milk,  mix  the  cornstarch  to  a  paste,  and  add  to  the 
hot  custard;  now  stir  in  the  chocolate,  add  salt  and  vanilla. 
Bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hour.  Make  a  meringue  of  the 
beaten  whites  and  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  pile  lightly 
over  the  pudding  and  brown. 


146  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Cherry  Tapioca. 

3  tablespoons  Minute  Tapioca  2  cups  cherries,  seeded 

2  cups  hot  water  1  cup  sugar 

Cook  the  tapioca  in  the  water  10  minutes.  Add  sugar 
and  cherries;  stir  and  cook  until  cherries  are  tender.  Cool; 
pour  into  glass  dish.     Serve  with  cream,  plain  or  whipped. 

Apple  Tapioca  I. 

3  tablespoons  Minute  Tapioca  3  cups  cold  water 

yi  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange 

6  apples  l/i  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  tapioca  in  the  water  until  it  is  swelled,  allowing  it  to 
stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Cook  slowly  until  clear;  add 
half  of  sugar  and  half  of  orange  juice  and  rind.  Cook  apples, 
peeled,  cored,  and  cut  in  half  in  another  pan,  add  rest  of  the 
sugar,  orange  juice  and  rind.  Let  these  cook  slowly  and  if  not 
sweet  enough  add  more  sugar.  When  soft  combine  with  tapioca 
and  cook  together  5  minutes.  If  tapioca  seems  too  thick  add 
more  water  in  which  case  you  will  require  more  sugar.  Serve 
in  a  glass  bowl,  or  if  you  wish  it,  browned  in  a  baking  dish.  It 
will  require  only  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Apple  Tapioca  II. 

Pare  and  quarter  6  large  tart  apples.  Arrange  in  baking 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  ]^  cup  Minute  Tapi- 
oca and  1  quart  boiling  water  in  double  boiler  15  minutes, 
add  %  teaspoon  salt.  Pour  over  the  apples,  and  bake  yi  hour, 
covered  in  a  moderate  oven.  Very  thin  slices  of  lemon  may  be 
put  in  among  the  apples;  the  apples  may  be  cored  and  baked 
whole  if  not  too  large. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

4  cups  milk  %  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca  Pinch  of  salt 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  milk  and  tapioca  in  double  boiler  15  minutes,  stir- 
ring frequently.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add 
to  tapioca  at  the  end  of  15  minutes,  also  add  salt.  Cook  until 
it  thickens,  stirring  constantly,  remove  from  fire,    cool  slightly, 


GOLD     DESSERTS  U7 


then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  and  pour  into 
glass  dish.  This  is  delicious  poured  over  cut  oranges, 
or    Hawaiian    pineapples. 


Plain  Boiled  Custard. 

To  1  quart  milk,  allow  6  eggs  and  )4  cup  sugar.  Scald 
milk  in  double  boiler,  beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  sugar.  Pour 
over  this  the  hot  milk  gradually  to  avoid  curdling.  If  the  egg 
is  heated  too  suddenly,  it  cooks,  and  this  causes  it  to  separate 
from  the  milk.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  with  a 
wire  spoon  until  it  is  thick.  Flavor  and  cool.  The  whites  of 
the  eggs  may  be  used  for  a  meringue  or  whipped  stiff  and  beaten 
into  the  custard.  If  eggs  continue  to  be  as  costly  as  they 
are  at  this  writing,  use  1  tablespoon  Minute  Tapioca  and 
eliminate  2  eggs.  Corn  starch  may  also  be  used.  This  applies 
to  all  recipes  in  which  custard  may  be  an  ingredient.. 


Baked  Custard. 

To  1  quart  milk  allow  4  eggs  and  yi  cup  sugar.  Proceed 
by  recipe  for  boiled  custard  as  far  as  combining  the  two  quan- 
tities. Pour  into  buttered  cups  or  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
pan  of  water  deep  enough  to  come  half  way  up  the  cups.  The 
water  in  the  pan  must  not  boil  as  the  combination  of  milk  and 
eggs  requires  slow  cooking.  Test  by  thrusting  in  a  silver  knife; 
if  done,  it  will  come  out  clean,  but  if  any  custard  adheres  to 
it,  allow  a  little  longer  time.  Custard  is  spoiled  if  cooked  too 
long.  Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  meringue  and  pile  lightly 
on  top.     Brown  in  oven. 


Cup  Custards. 

may  be  varied  by  turning  out  on  a  saucer,  placing  the  mer- 
ingue on  top  and  sprinkling  with  nuts  finely  chopped,  or  serve 
around  a  cup  custard,  after  it  is  turned  out,  a  caramel  sauce, 
and  place  a  macaroon  upon  the  top. 


148  WHATANDHOW 


Boiled  Caramel  Custard. 

1  quart  milk  5  eggs 

yi  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Caramelize  sugar,  by  stirring  over  the  fire  in  a  hot  pan 
until  it  melts  and  turns  a  light  shade  of  brown.  Do  not  let 
it  cook  too  long  after  melting,  or  it  will  be  bitter.  Scald  milk 
in  double  boiler  and  add  caramel  carefully;  it  will  cause  the 
milk  to  boil  furiously  and  must  be  added  gradually.  Keep 
stirring  until  it  melts  in  hot  milk,  then  pour  gradually  over 
yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  return  to  fire.  Stir  until 
it  is  thick  and  creamy,  add  salt  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
ready  to  serve,  pour  into  glass  dish  and  drop  over  the   top 

Maple  Meringue. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  3  table- 
spoons  powdered   sugar   and    yi   teaspoon  Mapeline.    A  sym- 
phony in  brown. 

Baked  Caramel  Custard. 

4  cups  scalded  milk  ~%  teaspoon  salt 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yi  cup  sugar 

Melt  sugar  in  omelet  pan,  stirring  constantly  over  hot 
part  of  the  stove,  until  it  is  a  light  brown  syrup,  add  gradu- 
ally to  the  milk,  being  careful  that  the  milk  does  not  bubble 
over,  as  it  is  liable  to,  on  account  of  the  high  temperature  of 
sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is  melted.  Add  mixture  gradually 
to  the  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  add  salt  and  flavoring,  and  strain 
into  buttered  mould.  Bake  as  Custard.  When  very  cold 
turn  out,  and  serve  with  Caramel  Sauce. 

Pineapple  Macedoine. 

Select  a  large  ripe  pineapple,  remove  the  stem  and  save 
for  a  cover  to  the  macedoine.  With  a  knife  cut  out  the  hard 
center,  using  caution  not  to  pierce  the  shell.  Scoop  out  with 
a  fork  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  you  can  without  risking  a  break. 
Have  ready,  cherries  seeded,  strawberries  cut  in  half,  if  large, 
and    bananas    diced,    quantity    of   each    to    depend    upon    the 


COLD     DESSERTS  HO 


capacity  of  the  pineapple.  Arrange  the  fruit  in  layers,  sprink- 
ling generously  with  sugar,  until  the  shell  is  filled.  Add  2  table 
spoons  lemon  juice  to  any  fruit  juice  you  have  left  and  pour 
over  the  macedoinc.  Replace  the  lid  and  put  into  the  coldest 
part  of  the  refrigerator  for  c2  or  3  hours  before  serving.  Send 
to  the  table  on  a  flat  dish  with  grape  leaves  around  it,  and 
serve  from   the  pineapple. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

%  cup  Irish  moss  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  cups  mlk  \}/i  squares  chocolate 

yA  cup  sugar  ]A,  cup  boiling  water 

Pinch  of  salt 

Soak  moss  for  15  minutes  in  cold  water  to  cover,  drain; 
pick  it  over  to  remove  dark  spots,  and  add  to  milk.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  l/2  hour,  add  salt  and  strain.  Melt  the  choco- 
late over  hot  water,  add  sugar  and  boiling  water,  stir  until 
smooth  and  add  to  the  cooked  mixture,  just  before  taking 
from  the  fire.    Add  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  mould. 

This  blanc  mange  may  be  made  with  gelatin,  using  yi 
box  or  2  envelopes.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Moulded  Snow. 

4  cups  milk,  scalded  Whites  3  eggs 

yi  cup  corn  starch  }4.  cup  cold  milk 

yi  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt,  rub  to  a  paste  with  the 
cold  milk,  add  to  scalding  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  15 
minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first,  after  mixture  thickens 
only  occasionally.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  flavoring,  mix  thoroughly,  mould  and 
chill.     Serve  with  Chocolate  Sauce  or  Quick  Sauce. 

Flummery. 

Put  1  cup  of  rice  through  meat  grinder,  fine  cutter.  Wash 
it  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  this  into  3  pints  milk 
heated  in  double  boiler,  add  3^  cup  sugar,  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.      Remove    from    fire,    flavor    writh    extract    of    bitter 


150  WHATANDHOW 


almond  and  pour  into  mould  previously  wet  with  cold  water. 
Serve  with  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  nutmeg.  This 
is  a  "traditional"  recipe  in  use  in  a  Wilmington  family  for  4 
generations. 

Banana  Charlotte. 

Chill  2  bananas.  When  ice  cold,  skin  and  press  through 
a  sieve,  sprinkle  with  juice  1  large  lemon,  and  add  white  of 
one  egg.    Whip  all  together  until  light  and  creamy. 

Have  ready  a  syrup  made  of  1  cup  sugar  and  yi  cup  water, 
boiled  to  the  ball  (see  directions  for  making  syrup.)  Pour  this 
slowly  over  the  mixture,  beating  hard  all  the  time.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon granulated  gelatin  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  hot  water. 
Continue  beating  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  mould. 

Coffee  Cream. 

2  tablespoons  Minute  Tapioca  2  eggs,  beaten  separately 

2  cups  scalded  milk  >£  cup  sugar,  added  to  yolks 

Cook  20  minutes  in  double  boiler  ]/^  cup  strong  coffee  infusion 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  a  dash  of  salt  to  milk  and  tapioca  mixture,  and  pour 
gradually  over  yolks  and  sugar.  Return  to  fire  and  cook,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  thickens.  Add  coffee  and  vanilla  and 
cool  slightly,  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  pour  into 
glass  dish.     Serve  with  cream. 

Corn  Starch  Float. 

1  quart  milk,  scalded  1  level  tablespoon  corn  starch 

2  eggs  %  cup  sugar 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  corn  starch  and  sugar,  add  hot 
milk  gradually,  and  return  to  fire.  Cook  5  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  nutmeg,  or  extract  bitter 
almond.  Pour  into  buttered  bake  dish,  cover  with  meringue 
of  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
flavored  with  juice  of  x/2  lemon,  and  brown. 

Peach  Cream  Pudding. 

1  can  peaches  yi  cup  powdered  sugar 

3  eggs  2  tablespoons  corn  starch 

3  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 


COLD     DESSERTS  151 


Rub  corn  starch  smooth,  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  scald 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  stir  the  corn  starch  into  it.  Do 
not  stop  stirring  until  it  is  thick.  Take  from  fire  and  add 
the  butter;  add  carefully  part  of  the  corn  starch  to  the  yolks 
of  eggs  beaten  light,  then  combine  mixtures.  Arrange  peaches 
in  a  buttered  bake  dish,  sprinkle  with  the  sugar,  and  pour  cus- 
tard over  them.  Bake  10  minutes  in  quick  oven,  cover  with 
meringue,  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  2  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Strawberry  Trifle. 

Any  stale  cake  may  be  used  for  this,  and  while  the  recipe 
calls  for  fresh  fruit,  it  is  almost  as  good  in  the  winter  time  with 
a  good  brand  of  canned  berries  or  jam. 

Slice  the  cake  and  line  a  glass  dish  with  it.  Spread  a 
little  custard  on  each  slice  and  put  on  a  layer  of  strawberries 
cut  in  half,  sprinkle  lightly  with  powdered  sugar.  On  this 
place  another  layer  of  sliced  cake,  custard  and  berries.  Pour 
custard  over  all,  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 
into  this  beat  some  strawberry  juice  or  crushed  berries  well 
sweetened,  and  pile  on  top.  Make  1  pint  custard  by  usual 
recipe. 

Raspberry  Trifle. 

Line  a  dish  with  thin  slices  of  stale  cake.  Moisten  with 
raspberry  juice  and  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  berries, 
sweetened.  Over  this  put  another  layer  of  the  cake  and  pro- 
ceed as  before.  Serve  with  Whipped  Cream  Sauce,  or  Custard 
Sauce.  Any  fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  raspberries;  if  peaches 
or  pineapple,  crush  them  with  sugar,  or  use  in  very  thin  slices. 
For  use  in  winter,  canned  fruit,  if  of  best  quality,  is  a  good 
substitute  for  the  fresh.  Preserves  and  marmalades  can  also 
be  used. 

Oranges,  Creole  Style. 

Peel  the  oranges,  cut  in  slices,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar 
to  form  a  syrup.     Serve  very  cold. 


152  WHATANDHOW 


Ambrosia. 

Peel  oranges,  and  holding  each  one  firm  with  a  fork,  cut 
in  small  slices  away  from  the  core.  Save  every  drop  of  juice. 
Arrange  in  layers  in  a  deep  glass  dish,  sprinkling  each  layer 
with  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut.  Cover  with  the  cocoanut, 
pour  over  it  the  juice,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour 
or  two  before  serving. 

Apple  Trifle. 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices,  12  tart  apples.  Put  them  into 
double  boiler  and  let  them  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  With 
a  wire  spoon  whip  until  smooth  and  creamy,  sweeten  to  taste, 
add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  half  the  grated  rind,  and  put 
into  a  glass  dish.  When  perfectly  cold  it  should  be  quite  stiff. 
Make  a  quart  of  custard,  folding  in,  when  perfectly  cold,  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  it  over  the  apple  by  the  spoon- 
ful; it  should  not  sink  below  the  apple.  Pile  on  top  of  this,  1 
pint  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  a  very  little 
sherry. 

Apple  Snow. 

}4  lb.  macaroons  1  cup  of  custard 

Whites  4  eggs  ]/2  cup  powdered  sugar 

4  large  apples 

Put  macaroons  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  and  cover 
with  the  custard  before  you  make  the  snow.  Whisk  the  eggs 
and  sugar  to  a  meringue  before  paring  the  apples.  Peel  and 
grate  each  directly  into  the  meringue  and  whip  it  in  quickly 
before  peeling  the  next.  The  apple  changes  color  so  quickly 
in  the  air  after  peeling  that  you  will  need  an  assistant  to  grate 
it  while  you  beat.    Pile  on  top  of  the  custard. 

Gelatin. 

All  recipes  given  here  in  which  gelatin  is  used,  call  for 
granulated  gelatin,  whether  so  stated  or  not.  The  day  has 
gone  by  when  any  other  kind  needs  to  be  used.  The  tedious 
process  of  soaking  for  hours,  the  guessing  at  the  quantity, 
the  extra  trouble  of  dissolving  have  given  place  to  the  neat 
packages  of  powdered  gelatin,  needing  only  to  be  "swelled" 
to    render    it   soluble    at    once,    and    it    is    already    measured. 


COLD     DESSERTS  153 


There  are  many  good  brands  but  the  Minute  Gelatin,  each 
box  divided  into  4  packages,  is  most  convenient  as  it  does 
away  with  all  doubt  as  to  ounces  and  spoonfuls,  doubts  that 
have  always  existed  in  the  average  mind  in  connection  with 
gelatin;  each  package  contains  just  1  ounce,  which  is  1  table- 
spoon, and  is  one  quarter  of  a  box;  no  matter  how  your  recipe 
reads  you  can  make  no  mistake. 

Whipped  Cream. 

There  are  many  methods  set  forth  by  many  books  and 
magazine  writers  for  whipping  cream.  Distinction  is  made 
between  the  whipping  of  thin  and  thick  cream,  which,  by  the 
way,  is  very  necessary.  My  directions  are  given  for  medium 
cream,  the  cream  you  gather  from  the  top  of  your  milk  bottles, 
if  you  buy  the  right  milk.  Heavy  whipping  cream  will  whip, 
perhaps  with  less  trouble  (provided  it  does  not  turn  to  butter), 
but  ordinary  cream  will  be  most  satisfactory  and  quite  easily 
wdiipped.  Have  bowl,  cream  and  Dover  egg  beater,  icy  cold;  if 
weather  is  warm,  set  the  bowl  inside  the  larger  one  of  cracked 
ice,  whip  it  steadily  and  not  too  rapidly  until  it  is  stiff.  Put 
into  the  refrigerator  for  half  an  hour.  Now  take  off  the  stiff 
cream,  put  into  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  repeat  the  process 
Two  whippings  should  suffice,  unless  you  are  whipping  a  large 
quantity.  It  is  well  to  select  the  bowl  for  depth  with  slightly 
sloping  sides  unless  the  quantity  of  cream  is  very  small,  when  use 
a  teacup  and  the  small  Dover.  The  cream  will  stand  for  hours 
after  whipping;  if  any  cream  settles  on  the  bottom  it  is  easily 
drained. 

A  Quick  Dessert. 

Whip  2  cups  cream  until  stiff.  Add  2  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  to  taste. 
Crush  9  stale  macaroons;  if  fresh,  dry  them  in  a  slow  oven,  and 
mix  with  the  cream  when  ready  to  use.    Serve  in  frappe  glasses. 

Whipped  Cream  with  Fruit. 

1  cup  pineapple,  diced  1  orange,  in  tiny  slices 

1  banana,  diced  1  cup  strawberries,  whole 

Whip  2  cups  of  cream,  sweetened  to  taste,  add  the  fruit 

and  pile   lightly  in  a  glass  dish  lined  with  split  lady  fingers. 


154  WHATANDHOW 


Serve  very  cold,  with  some  of  the  strawberries  on  top  for  a 
garnish.  The  cream  needs  to  be  very  sweet  as  there  is  no 
sugar  on  the  fruit. 

Jellied  Apples. 

Peel  and  core  6  firm  apples.  Cook  in  water  to  cover  them 
until  they  are  tender,  sprinkling  over  them  x/2  cup  sugar.  Let 
them  cook  very  gently  that  they  may  keep  their  shape  and 
not  become  soft  on  the  outside  before  being  cooked  in  the 
center.  Drain  from  the  syrup  and  arrange  in  a  glass  bowl. 
Measure  the  syrup;  to  1  pint  (2  cups)  allow  ^  envelope  of 
Minute  Gelatin  (>^  tablespoon),  previously  swelled  in  cold 
water  to  cover.  If  syrup  is  not  sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar; 
when  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  remove  from  the  fire,  cool  slightly 
and  strain  over  the  apples. 

Pineapple  Meringue. 

Cut  stale  cake  into  thin  slices  and  cut  these  into  pieces 
that  may  be  arranged  to  hold  a  slice  of  Hawaiian  pineapple. 
Or  if  you  bake  a  cake  on  purpose,  make  it  so  that  you  can 
cut  out  rounds  the  right  size.  This  may  be  done  by  cutting 
around  a  saucer  with  a  sharp  knife.  If  the  cake  is  thick,  split 
each  round  after  cutting.  On  each  plate,  put  a  slice  of  the 
pineapple  on  top  of  the  cake,  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts,  and 
dot  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  2  eggs  and  2 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  flavored  with  a  few  drops  lemon 
juice. 

Pineapple  Cream. 

lyi  envelopes  Minute  gelatin  Yolk  1  egg 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  whipped  cream  Hawaiian  pineapple,  grated 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  slowly  over  the  egg  and  sugar 
beaten  together.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  5 
minutes.  Add  the  gelatin,  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold 
water  to  cover  for  10  minutes  and  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and 
pour  out  into  a  shallow  dish  to  cool.  When  beginning  to  stiffen, 
add  1  cup  pineapple  and  the  whipped  cream.  Mould  and 
chill.  Serve  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce.  The  remainder 
of  the  pineapple  may  be  arranged  around  the  base  of  the  mould 


COLD     DESSERTS  155 


when  turned  out  on  its  serving  dish,  or  be  used  as  a  dessert 
by  itself.  Do  not  keep  it  in  the  can,  turn  into  a  bowl  and  keep 
in  a  cold  place  for  2  or  3  days,  and  serve  with  a  plain  cake. 

Hawaiian  pineapple  is  superior  to  any  canned  or  pre- 
served fruit,  and  is  better  adapted  to  desserts  than  the  fresh 
pineapple;  it  is  more  convenient,  no  more  expensive,  and  is 
of  fine  flavor.    Each  can  contains  8  slices  of  fruit. 

Italian  Cream. 

1  package  Minute  gelatin  yi  cup  sugar 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

Cover  gelatin  with  cold  water;  scald  milk  in  double  boiler, 
pour  it  slowly  over  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  mixed  together, 
return  to  fire,  add  gelatin  and  cook  until  mixture  coats  the 
spoon,  stirring  all  the  time.  Strain.  Add  salt,  and  when 
cooled  slightly,  the  flavoring  and  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Mould  and  chill.  Serve  with  cream,  whipped  cream,  or  Quick 
Pudding   Sauce. 

Coffee  Souffle. 

\yi  cups  coffee  infusion  1  package  Minute  gelatin 

)4  cup  milk  3  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  }4.  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  milk,  add  slowly  to  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  slightly 
beaten  together,  return  to  double  boiler,  add  coffee  and  gelatin 
(soaked  as  directed),  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  cool  slight- 
ly, add  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Mould.    Serve  with  cream,  plain  or  whipped. 

Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream. 

2  cups  milk  yi  cup  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  gelatin  soaked  10  2  eggs 

minutes  %  cup  sugar 
1  cup  cream 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  egg  yolks  and  sugar,  ac- 
cording to  directions  already  given.  When  it  is  ready  to  take 
from  the  fire,  add  gelatin  and  stir  until  it  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved; strain  into  a  bowl  and  cool.  When  cold  add  1  cup 
grated  Hawaiian  pineapple  and  the  juice  of  ]4  lemon.  Whip 
the  cream  until  stiff,  add  it  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 


156  WHATANDHOW 


to  the  mixture;  mould  and  chill.  Have  the  cream  whipped  and 
in  the  refrigerator  before  you  begin  to  make  the  custard.  You 
will  have  time  to  whip  the  egg  whites,  but  not  the  cream,  while 
the  mixture  cools;  it  begins  to  stiffen  as  it  cools  and  the  cream 
and  eggs  must  be  folded  in  before  it  gets  too  stiff. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

%  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice  2  eggs 

yi  cup  orange  juice,  or  any  fruit  1  teaspoon  gelatin 

juice  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

y$  cup  sugar 

Cover  gelatin  with  cold  water,  let  stand  for  10  minutes. 
Mix  yolks  of  eggs,  fruit  juices  and  sugar,  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly  with  wire  whisk  until  it  thickens;  add  gelatin,  and 
when  it  dissolves,  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs  and  with  a  Dover  egg  beater,  beat  until  stiff  enough 
to  hold  its  shape.  Line  a  glass  bowl  with  lady  fingers,  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  chill.  This  is  a  quick  method,  given  by  Miss 
Farmar  in  her  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

1  quart  box  strawberries  K  box  gelatin 

yi  cup  powdered  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  cream,  whipped 

Crush  berries  and  sugar  together  and  set  aside  for  an 
hour.  Rub  through  sieve  if  you  wish  to  discard  seeds. 
"Swell"  the  gelatin  with  cold  water,  dissolve  with  boiling 
water  and  add  to  the  fruit  pulp.  When  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream;  mould  and  chill. 

Raspberry  Bavarian  Cream 

is  made  according  to  preceding  recipe. 

Jellied  Oranges. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  tops  of  8  medium  sized  oranges,  or 
6  large  ones.  Reserve  these  slices.  With  a  spoon  carefully 
remove  the  pulp  from  the  skins,  keeping  these  latter  entirely 
whole.  Select  about  ]/2  the  pulp,  cut  into  neat  pieces  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  Strain  the  re- 
mainder  of  the  juice   and   pulp,   rubbing  it   through   a   sieve. 


COLD     DESSERTS  157 


Add  to  it  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Dissolve  1  envelope  Minute 
Gelatin,  (or  1  tablespoon),  in  %  cup  boiling  water,  add  1  cup 
sugar  and  the  orange  juice.  Mix  with  the  cut  orange,  and 
fill  the  orange  skins  with  the  mixture.  When  cold  and  firm, 
tie  the  "lids"  on  with  narrow  ribbon. 

Wine  Jelly. 

\4  box  gelatin  1  cup  sugar 

yi  cup  cold  water  1  cup  sherry  wine 

2  cups  boiling  water  yi  cup  orange  juice 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Cover  gelatin  with  the  cold  water;  when  swelled,  dis- 
solve with  the  boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  fruit  juices. 
When  slightly  cool,  add  sherry  and  put  away  in  bowl.  This 
jelly  will  not  be  stiff  enough  to  mould  successfully,  but  is  to 
be  piled  by  the  spoonful  in  a  glass  dish,  or  served  in  sherbet 
glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top.  If  wanted  for  a  mould, 
decrease  the  quantity  of  boiling  water  by  yi  cup. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

yi  box  gelatin  soaked  in  1  cup  cold  water  5  minutes,  add  £ 
cups  boiling  water,  ^  cup  sugar  and  ]/2  cup  lemon  juice.    Strain. 

Orange  Jelly. 

yi  box  gelatin  soaked  5  minutes  in  }4  cup  cold  water.  Add 
1  cup  boiling  water  and  1  cup  sugar.  Stir  until  gelatin  and  sugar 
are  dissolved.  Add  1  pint  orange  juice  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Strain. 

Jelly  With  Fruit. 

Make  a  lemon  or  orange  jelly  firm  enough  to  mould;  4 
cups  of  liquid  to  }4  box  of  gelatin  will  mould  unless  the  weather 
is  very  hot  and  damp,  in  which  case  add  an  extra  K  tablespoon. 
Use  oranges,  figs,  nuts  and  white  grapes  for  this  mould.  Peel 
and  cut  oranges  in  round  slices,  remove  seeds  and  all  white 
skin.  Cut  grapes  in  half  and  remove  seeds.  Set  mould  in 
a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  the  jelly. 
When  firm  enough  to  hold  the  fruit,  arrange  slices  of  oranges 
and  use  smaller  fruits  to  decorate  them.  For  instance,  an 
orange  slice  at  each  end  may  be  surrounded  with    a    ring    of 


158  WHATANDHOW 


white  grapes,  skin  side  down,  while  the  nuts  may  be  arranged 
as  a  star  in  the  centre.  Candied  or  Maraschino  cherries  add  to 
the  attractive  appearance  of  the  mould.  Cover  this  layer  of 
fruit  with  jelly,  putting  it  on  with  a  spoon  so  that  the  fruit  will 
not  be  disarranged.  Cut  the  figs  in  half  crosswise,  and  line 
the  upper  part  of  the  mould  with  them,  dipping  each  piece 
in  jelly  to  make  it  stick.  Turn  seed  side  next  the  mould.  When 
jelly  is  firm  enough,  arrange  another  layer  of  fruit  and  fill  up  the 
mould  with  remaining  jelly.  Should  jelly  stiffen  before  you 
need  it  for  filling  up  the  mould,  melt  it  by  standing  the  bowl 
in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes.  To  remove  from  mould,  wring 
a  towel  from  hot  water,  encircle  the  mould  with  it  for  an  instant 
only,  when  the  jelly  will  turn  out  without  trouble;  do  not  for- 
get to  have  the  towel  touch  the  bottom  as  well  as  the  sides  of 
the    mould. 

To  Mould  Jelly. 
Rinse  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  before  pouring  in  the 
jelly.  To  remove  from  moulds,  wrap  for  an  instant  in  a  towel 
wrung  out  of  hot  water.  To  wring  the  towel,  place  it  inside 
another  towel,  and  twist  the  ends  of  the  latter  in  opposite 
directions.  This  wrings  the  hot  towel  without  its  coming 
into  contact  with  the  hands. 

Orange  Cream. 

Juice  of  2  oranges  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  }4  package  granulated  gelatin 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange  1  pint  whipped  cream 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  to  cover,  5  minutes.  Dissolve 
in  1  cup  boiling  water,  add  orange  juice  and  rind.  Keep  warm 
while  beating  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Strain  liquid 
into  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Heat  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
until  it  reaches  boiling  point.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  when 
thick  beat  in  the  whipped  cream.  Serve  with  cream  or  any 
good  pudding  sauce. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Beat  whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff,  add  }4  tablespoon 
granulated  gelatin  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  hot  water,  beat 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  add  J4  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor 


COLD     DESSERTS  159 


with   l/i  teaspoon  extract  of    lemon.       Pile  lightly  on  dish  and 
serve  with  Custard  Sauce. 

Charlotte  Russe  I. 

Whip  2  cups  cream  very  stiff,  add  yi  cup  powdered  sugar, 
whites  3  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  and  flavor  with  1  teaspoon 
lemon  extract  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Line  a  glass  dish  with 
lady  fingers  split,  fill  with  mixture  and  keep  in  cold  place  until 
ready    for    use. 

Charlotte  Russe  II. 

Dissolve  }/$  box  granulated  gelatin  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Whip  1  pint  cream  and  add  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  the 
gelatin.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  1  tablespoon 
orange  juice.  When  beginning  to  stiffen,  stir  in  whites  of  6 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Cut  stale  sponge  cake  in  thin 
slices,  spread  half  with  strawberry  jam,  and  half  with  currant 
jelly.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with  slices  spread  with 
jam,  over  this  put  a  layer  of  the  mixture,  about  2  inches  thick, 
on  top  of  this,  a  layer  of  cake  spread  with  jelly  and  another 
layer  of  the  mixture.  Continue  until  dish  is  full.  The  mixture 
of  tart  and  sweet  preserves  will  be  found  delicious. 

Charlotte  Russe  III. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin  1  pint  cream,  whipped  stiff 

yi  cup  cold  water  yi  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  by  stirring 
over  hot  water;  strain  into  bowl  and  add  the  cream  left  after 
whip  is  removed.  There  should  not  be  over  )4  cup  of  this. 
(See  directions  for  whipping  cream.)  Add  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing, and  then  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  If  not  stiffening 
before  the  cream  goes  in,  place  bowl  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice, 
and  stir  until  it  begins  to  grow  stiff,  then  fold  in  the  cream. 
Serve  in  individual  frappe  glasses  lined  with  macaroons,  and 
sprinkle  powdered  macaroons  on  top.  A  Maraschino  cherry 
or  strawberry  cut  in  half  may  be  added  as  a  garnish. 


160  WHATANDHOW 


Charlotte  Russe  IV. 

Whip  2  cups  cream  until  very  stiff.  Beat  whites  of  3 
eggs  until  perfectly  dry.  (See  Chapter  I.)  Add  ]4  cup 
powdered  sugar,  and  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  To  this 
may  be  added  crushed  macaroons,  1  cup  of  any  fruit  pulp, 
chopped  nuts,  or  Maraschino  cherries  cut  into  bits.  The 
flavoring  may  be  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract.  Serve  in 
frappe  glasses,  garnishing  with  whole  macaroons,  strawberries 
or  cherries. 

Easter  Pudding. 

y^  cup  candied  cherries  l/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

}^.  lb.  marshmallows  1  cup  heavy  cream 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whip  cream  until  stiff,  adding  sugar  and  vanilla.  Add 
marshmallows  cut  into  tiny  pieces,  the  nuts,  preferably  English 
walnuts,  and  the  cherries,  also  cut  into  small  pieces.  Keep  in 
a  very  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve  in  frappe  glasses  or  large 
bowl. 

Strawberry  Syllabub. 

1  pint  whipped  cream  1  cup  strawberry  preserves 

1  tablespoon  gelatin  dissolved  in  yi  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  hot  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add   sugar,    vanilla   and   gelatin   to   the   whipped   cream. 
When  well  mixed,  add  the  preserves,  and  stir  until  they  come 
to  the  top.    Serve  very  cold. 

Strawberry  Sponge. 

Yz  box  granulated  gelatin  1  quart  strawberries 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water 

Crush  sugar  and  strawberries,  and  set  aside  for  ]4,  hour. 
Strain  through  cheese  cloth,  squeezing  well  to  get  the  juice 
and  pulp,  or  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Soak  gelatin  10  min- 
utes in  y2  cup  cold  water,  add  boiling  water,  stir  until  dis- 
solved and  strain  into  strawberry  juice.  Set  bowl  in  a  pan 
of  cracked  ice  and  cool,  stirring  occasionally.  When  begin- 
-ning  to  thicken  beat  hard  until  it  is  a  stiff  froth;  then  add 
the  well  whipped  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Mould    and   chill.      (See    Chapter    I.)      Serve    turned    out   in 


COLD     DESSERTS  161 


glass  dish  and  garnish  with  whole  berries.  Whipped  cream 
may  be  used  if  convenient;  pile  it  lightly  around  the  mould 
and  decorate  with  berries  cut  in  half.  Use  the  yolks  of  eggs 
for  custard  or  bread  pudding. 


Fruit  Charlotte. 

2  oranges,  pulp  and  juice 

4  bananas  mashed  and  rubbed  1  package  Minute  gelatin 

through  sieve  2  cups  cream 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  2  tablespoons  boiling  water,  mix 
fruit,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  wine,  and  stir  in  the  gelatin. 
Set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  and  stir  until  it  cools.  In 
the  meantime  have  the  cream  whipped  and  cold;  fold  it  into 
the  mixture.  This  ma^  be  moulded  as  in  preceding  recipe, 
or  it  may  be  put  into  orange  skins.  Cut  oranges  in  half  cross- 
wise, take  out  pulp  and  throw  into  ice  water  until  needed. 
Wipe  dry,  fill  each  half  with  the  Charlotte,  and  when  firm, 
tie  two  together  with  narrow  ribbon,  and  serve  over  a  lace 
doiley  or  a  grape  leaf. 


Vanilla  Junket. 

1  rennet  tablet  4  cups  lukewarm  milk 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sugar  to  taste 

Crush  the  tablet  in  the  cold  water,  stir  into  the  warm 
milk,  add  flavoring  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Keep  in  a  warm 
place  until  it  "sets,"  remove  to  the  refrigerator  and  chill. 


Junket  Desserts 

may  be  varied  in  many  ways;  the  milk  may  be  flavored  with 
strong  coffee  infusion,  which  gives  coffee  junket;  the  plain 
junket  may  be  flavored  with  a  little  vanilla,  nutmeg  may  be 
grated  on  top,  and  it  is  very  dainty  served  in  frappe  glasses  with 
whipped  cream  on  top.  Of  course,  it  must  be  poured  into 
these  glasses  before  it  "sets." 


162  WHATANDHOW 


HOT  DESSERTS. 


Apple  Dumplings. 

Butter  six  muffin  rings,  and  set  in  a  shallow  baking  pan, 
fill  rings  with  apples  pared  and  sliced  very  thin,  packed  in 
tight  and  piled  up  slightly.  Sift  together  four  times  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  pastry  flour,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Chop  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  lard 
and  butter  mixed,  and  stir  in  with  a  knife  a  half  cup  of  water. 
Drop  this  dough  on  the  apples,  smoothing  and  shaping.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes  or  until  apples  are  tender,  and  the  dough 
well  baked.  Remove  with  a  cake  turner  to  hot  plates.  The  muf- 
fin rings  will  slip  off  easily.  Serve  with  Raspberry  or  Straw- 
berry Sauce. 

Buttered  Apples. 

Peel  and  core  medium  sized  apples,  butter  rounds  of 
toasted  bread  (half  inch  thick.)  Place  an  apple  on  each  round, 
fill  up  the  hole  with  sugar,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Refill  the  cavities 
with  sugar,  flavoring  with  cinnamon;  bake  fifteen  minutes 
longer,  until  apples  are  done,  the  time  depending  on  quality 
of  fruit.  Serve  hot  with  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  sprinkled 
over  each  apple. 

Steamed  Apple  Dumplings. 

2  cups  Apple  Sauce  2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  butter 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Make  apple  sauce  according  to  directions.  Sift  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt  together,  and  chop  in  the  butter.  Add 
enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  (See  Chapter  I.)  Butter 
6  muffin  rings  and  arrange  them  on  a  baking  sheet.  If  you  do 
not  have  one,  use  large  pie  plates.  Fill  each  ring  half  full  of 
apple  sauce  and  drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  dough  on  top.  Bake 
20  minutes  in  hot  oven.  With  a  cake  turner,  remove  each  dump- 
ling, ring  and  all,  to  the  plate  on  which  it  is  to  be  served,  turn- 
ing it  over  so  that  the  apple  sauce  is  on  top.  Each  dumpling 
should  be  a  round  ball,  half  apple  and  half  crust.  Serve  hot, 
with  Hard  Sauce,  or  any  good  pudding  sauce. 


HOTDESSERTS  163 


Cherry  Dumplings. 

Two  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  sifted  to- 
gether. Chop  into  this  1  tablespoon  butter  or  Crisco,  add  one 
cup  of  milk,  and  mix  with  a  knife.  Roll  out  thin,  cut  into  four 
inch  squares.  In  the  centre  of  each  put  cherries  stoned  and 
sugared,  pinch  corners  together,  lay  upside  down  on  a  baking 
sheet,  which  has  been  well  greased  or  waxed.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 

Roger  Rock  Pudding. 

Slice  either  peaches  or  apples  on  two  well  buttered  pie 
plates.  Make  a  batter  of  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
and  pinch  of  salt  sifted  together,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  melted.  Mix  with  milk  to  the  consistency  of 
sponge  cake  batter.  Beat  well  and  pour  over  the  pans  of  fruit. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  for  half  an  hour,  turn  one  out  on  a  plate, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  turn  the  other  one  on  top,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.    Serve  hot  with  pudding  sauce. 

Peach  Cups. 

8  large  ripe  peaches  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

%  cup  milk  \}4  cups  flour 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Pare  peaches  and  cut  in  half.  Mash  four  halves,  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  beaten,  the  milk,  butter  and  salt.  Sift  flour 
and  baking  powder  together,  and  add  to  batter.  Fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Grease  twelve  custard  cups.  Into 
the  bottom  of  each  one  put  a  layer  of  the  batter,  on  top  of 
this  half  of  a  peach,  rounded  side  down,  cover  with  a  layer 
of  batter,  and  dust  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  twenty  min- 
utes, turn  from  the  cups,  and  serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 

Apple  Cups. 

may  be  made  from  same  recipe,  substituting  sliced  apples  for 
the  peaches. 


164  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Macaroon  Souffle. 


Soak  %  pound  macaroons  in  1  cup  cream  until  soft.  Heat 
to  boiling  and  pour  gradually  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Beat  until  cool.  Fold  in  whites  of  3  eggs  whipped  stiff  and 
dry,  flavor  with  }£  teaspoon  extract  bitter  almond.  Bake  in 
buttered  mould  10  minutes.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  Whipped 
Cream  Sauce. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding. 

1  cup  flour  y^  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

yi  teaspoon  cinnamon  yA  cup  milk 

1  egg  2  squares  chocolate 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  cinnamon  together  three 
times,  beat  eggs  separately.  To  the  beaten  yolks,  add  grad- 
ually the  sugar,  butter  and  milk.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the 
flour.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  to  the  mix- 
ture, and  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Steam  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  buttered  cups.  To  steam  stand  the  cups  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  in  the  oven.    Serve  with  a  pudding  sauce. 


Cottage  Pudding. 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  2^  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  and  beat.  Sift 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  and  add  alternately, 
with  the  milk;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  greased 
mould,  or  in  muffin  tins.    Serve  with  a  pudding  sauce. 


Sago  Pudding. 

Soak  y2  cup  sago  in  1  cup  water  2  hours;  drain  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  with  1  quart  milk  until  sago  is  clear,  stir- 
ring several  times.  Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  4  tablespoons 
sugar  and  3  eggs,  beaten  light.  Bake  for  20  minutes  in  greased 
baking  dish,  and  serve  with  cream.  This  is  a  wholesome  pud- 
ding for  children,  and  can  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold. 


HOT     DESSERTS  165 


Souffles. 

Souffles  are  not  successful  unless  served  as  soon  as  baked. 
They  fall  in  a  very  few  moments  if  allowed  to  stand. 
Therefore  unless  you  are  sure  of  your  meal  time  do  not  attempt 
them.  >4  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  added  to  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  before  they  are  entirely  whipped  will  help  to  keep 
the  souffle  from  falling. 

Lemon  Souffle. 

•4  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon 

Beat  yolks  until  thick,  add  sugar  beating  continuously, 
and  rind  and  juice  of  lemon.  Cut  and  fold  in  the  whipped 
whites  of  the  eggs,  bake  35  minutes  in  a  bake  dish  set  in  pan 
of  water.     All  souffles  are  baked  in  this  manner. 

Spanish  Souffle. 

l/i  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  sugar 

yi  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  3  eggs 

1  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter  and  stir  in  crumbs,  add  milk  and  sugar,  and 
cook  20  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
yolks  of  eggs,  unbeaten,  and  when  mixed,  cut  and  fold  in 
whipped  whites  of  eggs  and  add  vanilla.  Bake  as  directed 
for  Lemon  Souffle. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  currants 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  suet,  shredded  2  cups  fresh  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt 

The  suet  may  be  easily  shredded  by  putting  it  through 
the  meat  chopper,  otherwise  it  is  a  tedious  operation.  Mix 
all  ingredients,  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  last, 
and  boil  for  2  hours  in  a  well  greased  mould.  Tomato  cans 
make  excellent  moulds  for  boiling  puddings.  Turn  them 
upside  down  on  the  stove  until  the  tops  melt  off.  Grease 
well  arid  fill  half  full  of  the  mixture;  tie  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth 
over  the  top  and  stand  in  a  kettle  of  water  deep  enough  to 


166  WHATANDHOW 


come  half  way  up  the  can.  Boil  steadily  but  not  too  hard; 
if  the  water  ceases  boiling  the  pudding  will  be  soggy  and  heavy. 
These  puddings  will  keep  for  several  days.  Serve  with  Sabyon 
Sauce  or  Quick  Sauce.  To  reheat  boil  half  hour.  This  is  really 
steaming  the  pudding,  since  the  true  boiled  pudding  is  tied  in  a 
clothtand  immersed  in  water. 


Fig  Pudding. 

Yi  lb.  suet,  chopped  yi  cup  milk 

yi  lb.  figs,  chopped  2  eggs 

2^3  cups  bread  crumbs  1  cup  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Put  suet  and  figs  through  meat  chopper,  coarse  cutter. 
With  a  fork,  cream  this  mixture  until  smooth.  Add  crumbs 
soaked  in  milk,  eggs  well  beaten,  sugar  and  salt.  Turn  into 
greased  moulds  and  steam  3  hours. 

St.  James'  Pudding. 

3  tablespoons  butter  yi  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  molasses  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

yi  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  allspice 

\}i  cups  flour  yi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

yi  teaspoon  soda  yi  lb.  dates,  stoned  and  chopped 

Melt  butter,  add  molasses,  milk,  dates  and  dry  ingred- 
ients sifted  together.    Steam  as  directed  above. 

These  three  boiled  or  steamed  puddings,  I  have  used 
successfully  for  years,  and  can  recommend  them  as  simple 
and  delicious  winter  desserts. 


Plum'Pudding. 

3  cups  suet  chopped  3  cups  sugar 

3  cups  seeded  raisins  3  cups  currants 

1  cup  citron,  sliced  2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  cloves  1  cup  milk 

4  eggs 

Sift  dry  ingredients  twice.  Beat  eggs,  add  milk  and  fruit 
with  suet,  beat  well.  Last,  add  dry  ingredients,  turn  into  well 
greased  moulds  and  boil  according  to  directions  for  Suet  Pud- 
ding. 


HOT     DESSERTS  167 


Fruit  Pudding. 

.)  eggs  yi  lb.  suet 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 
2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

2  oz.  citron,  chopped  >•£  lb.  seeded  raisins 

}4  lb.  dried  currants 

Remove  skin  from  suet  and  pass  it  through  the  meat 
chopper  with  the  citron.  To  secure  all  of  it,  run  1  tablespoon 
of  the  raisins  through  after  the  suet  and  citron.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  spices,  suet  and  fruit  with  the  milk. 
Mix  thoroughly,  sift  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and 
bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  \%  hours.  The  fireless  cooker  will 
do^  this  admirably  for  you,  if  it  is  provided  with  baking 
stones. 


168  WHAT    AND    HOW 


CHAPTER  XIII 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 
Orange  Sauce. 

Whites  3  eggs  Juice  and  grated  rind  2  oranges 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Juice  1  lemon 

Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue 
beating  until  smooth.     Add  fruit  juices  and  rind. 

Chocolate  Sauce. 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  2  eggs 

2  squares  chocolate  %  cup  powdered  sugar 
2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  l}i  cups  milk,  rub  corn  starch  smooth  with  re- 
maining milk,  and  add  to  scalded  milk.  Cook  8  minutes  in 
double  boiler.  Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  2  table- 
spoons sugar  and  the  hot  water;  stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
to  cooked  mixture;  beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  pow- 
dered sugar  gradually,  add  unbeaten  yolks  and  continue  beat- 
ing until  smooth.  Stir  into  the  cooked  mixture,  cook  1  min- 
ute, add  vanilla  and  cool.  This  is  the  sauce  used  over  ice 
cream  as  well  as  cottage  pudding  or  puffs.  It  is  Miss  Farmar's 
recipe. 

Hard  Sauce. 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar 
Juice  1  lemon                                        2  gratings  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  white  and  very  smooth, 
add  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.  Keep  in  cold  place  until  needed. 
Creamy  Sauce. 

To  Hard  Sauce,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  stir- 
ring it  in  gradually. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

To  Hard  Sauce,  add  }4  cup  crushed  strawberries,  or  peach 
pulp,  and  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  hard  until  well 
mixed. 


PUDDING     SAUCES  169 


Lemon  Sauce. 

1  cup  sugar  9  tablespoons  boiling  water 

I2  teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel  Juice  1  lemon 

Yolks  3* eggs 

Cook  sugar  and  water  for  15  minutes  without  stirring, 
adding  lemon  juice  and  peel  when  it  begins  to  boil.  Heat  yolks 
of  eggs  light,  pour  syrup  over  them  very  gradually.  Stir  mix- 
ture over  boiling  water  until  it  thickens. 

Meringue  Sauce. 

K  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  fruit  juice  K  cup  butter 

White  1  egg,  beaten  stiff 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beating  until  very  light.  Add 
fruit  juice,  gradually  to  avoid  curdling,  the  water  and  egg. 
If  not  ready  for  instant  use  do  not  add  water  and  egg  until 
ready  to  serve. 

Caramel  Sauce. 

yi  cup  sugar  ^2  cup  boiling  water 

Melt  sugar,  as  for  Caramel  Custard,  add  water,  and  sim- 
mer 10  minutes.  Add  water  carefully,  as  temperature  of  sugar 
is  very  high  and  causes  water  to  boil  furiously. 

Sabyon  Sauce. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  >£  lemon  y$  cup  sugar 

yi  cup  orange  juice  2  eggs 

Mix  lemon,  orange  juice,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs,  stir 
vigorously  over  the  fire,  using  a  wire  whisk.  When  it  thickens, 
pour  over  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Continue  beating 
only  long  enough  to  mix  well.  If  necessary  to  keep  hot,  put 
the  sauce  pan  in  another  containing  hot  water;  it  is  equally 
good    cold. 

Quick  Sauce. 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered  sugar 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  light,  add  half  the  sugar  gradually; 
beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  remaining  sugar  gradually;  com- 
bine mixtures  and-  add  flavoring.  This  is  a  recipe  of  Miss 
Farmar's    with    a    different    name.      I    know    of    no    pudding 


170  WHATANDHOW 


sauce  to  equal  it,  and  it  can  be  made  in  a  few  moments.  It 
may  be  varied  by  using  any  flavoring  extract  in  place  of  the 
vanilla. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. 

2  cups  sugar  yi  cup  water 

yi  cup  English  walnut  meats  yi  teaspoon  Mapleine 

Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a 
thread  from  the  tip  of  the  spoon.  Add  nuts,  broken  into  small 
pieces,  and  Mapleine.     Serve  hot,  over  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Custard  Sauce. 

Make  a  plain  boiled  custard  (see  directions,  Chapter  XII), 
using  2  cups  milk,  3  eggs  and  %  cup  sugar.  Fold  in  the  whipped 
whites  of  eggs  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Pistache  Sauce. 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  sugar 

]A  tablespoon  corn  starch  }4  teaspoon  extract  bitter  almond 

Pistache  green 

Rub  corn  starch  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into 
boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  for 
10  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  coloring,  a  drop  at  a  time 
until  a  pale  green,  flavor,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Maple  Sauce. 

2  eggs  YA  cup  hot  water 

1  tablespoon  sugar  yi  teaspoon  Mapleine 

Beat  eggs  separately.  To  the  yolks  add  sugar  and  mix. 
Stir  the  Mapeleine  into  hot  water,  and  add  gradually  to  the 
eggs  and  sugar.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  and  fold  in.  If  maple 
flavor  is  not  strong  enough,  add  %  or  3  drops  more. 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

1  cup  cream,  whipped  stiff  1  egg  white,  whipped 

yi  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  sugar  and  flavoring  to  cream  before  whipping,  fold 
in  the  egg  white.  One  teaspoon  extract  of  bitter  almond  may 
be  used  instead  of  vanilla. 


PUDDING     SAUCES  171 


Vanilla  Sauce. 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  melt  in  double  boiler,  add  milk 
and  stir  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Add  vanilla  and  serve  hot. 
This  same  sauce  may  be  flavored  with  extract  bitter  almond, 
extract  lemon,  or  orange*water. 


172  WHAT    AND     HOW 

CHAPTER  XIV 

PASTRY. 

Use  pastry  flour  and  whatever  shortening  you  wish  pro- 
vided it  be  very  cold  and  solid.  Lard  makes  a  tender  crust, 
butter  gives  more  flavor,  while  Crisco  combines  the  good  qual- 
ities of  both.  It  is  said  that  French  cooks  make  their  best 
pastry  of  suet;  whatever  is  used,  it  must  be  of  the  best  qual- 
ity. The  lightness  of  pastry  depends  upon  the  air  enclosed 
in  it  and  the  expansion  of  that  air  in  the  baking;  the  flakiness 
of  the  crust  depends  upon  its  handling  and  the  proper  con- 
dition of  the  shortening.  For  this  reason  the  room  in  which 
the  work  is  done  should  be  cold,  the  hands  must  not  touch 
the  pastry  except  when  absolutely  necessary,  and  then  in  the 
lightest  possible  manner,  iced  water  must  be  used  to  mix,  and 
board  and  rolling  pin  must  be  very  cold.  Do  not  grease  the 
pie  plates,  good  pastry  never  sticks,  and  allow  for  shrinking  in 
the  baking,  by  cutting  larger  than  the  pan,  and  fitting  around 
the  edges  slightly  full.  In  trimming  off  edges,  hold  the  knife 
slanting  from  the  plate  to  avoid  cutting  too  small.  The 
shortening  is  chopped  into  the  flour  with  a  broad  knife,  and 
the  chopping  must  continue  until  the  mixture  is  like  coarse 
sand.  Add  the  water  cautiously,  stirring  it  in  with  the  knife, 
and  do  not  use  any  more  than  just  enough  to  mix  a  stiff  dough 
If  too  much  water  be  added,  the  crust  will  not  be  tender. 

Puff  paste  is  not  the  impossible  thing  it  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  be.  If  directions  be  carefully  followed,  success  is 
more  certain  than  with  the  plainer  pastry,  but  there  must 
not  be  the  slightest  variation  or  deviation  from  the  methods 
as  explained  below,  nor  should  it  be  undertaken  without  a 
careful  reading  of  directions  as  given  here. 

Bake  pies  in  a  hot  oven  from  half  hour  to  three  quar- 
ters. To  ensure  a  well  baked  under  crust,  use  perforated  tin 
plates.  When  using  two  crusts,  brush  the  edges  of  the  lower 
crust  with  cold  water  before  putting  on  the  upper  crust,  and 
press  them  together  with  a  fork.  The  water  serves  to  hold 
the  crusts  together.  Without  it  the  top  crust  will  come  apart 


PASTRY  173 


from  the  lower  one,  allowing  the  juices  to  escape  and  mak- 
ing an  unsightly  pie.  Always  prick  the  top  crust  to  allow 
the  steam  to  escape. 

When  pies  are  very  juicy,  cut  a  funnel  of  white  paper, 
insert  it  in  a  small  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  pie  and  the  juice 
will  collect  in  it,  returning  to  its  proper  place  as  the  pie  cools. 

1  o  Glaze  a  Pie. 

When  the  pie  is  ready  to  bake,  dot  it  with  tiny  bits  of 
butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  holding  it  in  one  hand  tip  it 
slightly  and  pour  water  over  it  from  a  cup,  rinsing  off  the 
flour  that  does  not  adhere  to  the  butter.  This  gives  a  profes- 
sional air  to  the  crust  when  baked. 

Puff  Paste. 

1  lb.  pastry  flour  1  lb.  butter 

Ice  water 

Wash  butter  (see  Chapter  I)  and  wipe  dry.  Chop  %  of 
it  into  the  sifted  flour,  mix  with  ice  water  and  roll  out  into 
an  oblong  sheet  with  square  corners  and  about  y±  inch  thick. 
With  the  rolling  pin,  pat  the  remaining  butter  into  a  flat  piece 
twice  as  thick  as  the  crust.  Place  this  on  one  end  of  crust, 
cover  butter  with  the  other  half  and  press  edges  firmly  together 
with  the  fingers,  touching  it  very  lightly.  Cover  with  a  cloth 
and  put  in  a  very  cold  place  for  5  minutes.  Do  not  guess  at 
the  time,  go  by  the  clock.  Turn  around  half  way,  so  that  the 
rolling  out  the  second  time  will  be  exactly  at  right  angles  to  the 
first  rolling.  Pat  lightly  with  the  roller  to  flatten  slightly,  roll 
out  in  oblong  shape  again,  keeping  the  corners  square.  Use 
the  knife  to  turn  the  dough  to  the  centre  from  one  end,  fold 
the  other  end  over  it,  and  again  pinch  edges  together  to  keep 
the  air  enclosed.  Cover  and  set  aside  for  another  5  minutes. 
Turn  dough  again  so  that  the  side  becomes  the  end  from  which 
you  roll.  Roll  out  as  before,  this  time  folding  both  ends  to  the 
middle  and  doubling  it  over.  This  gives  four  thicknesses  of 
dough,  the  second  folding  gave  three,  while  the  first  gave  two. 
Lay  aside  again  for  5  minutes.  If  it  is  not  cold  out  of  doors, 
wrap  in  cloth,  lay  on  plate  and  put  on  the  ice.     But  I  would 


174  WHAT    AND     HOW 


strongly  advise  against  making  this  pastry  in  warm  weather. 
Use  summer  pastry  as  given  below. 

After  the  fourth  rolling,  chill  thoroughly  before  cutting 
out  the  pies  or  tarts,  and  after  these  are  made,  chill  again 
before  baking.  This  quantity  will  make  2  large  pies,  or  30 
tarts. 

Plain  Pastry. 

1}4  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  tea-  1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed,  or  ^  cup 

spoon  baking  powder  Crisco 

A  pinch  of  salt 

Chop  shortening,  which  should  be  very  cold,  into  the 
flour,  and  mix  with  a  little  ice  water  into  a  stiff  dough.  Do 
not  handle  except  to  shape  it  ready  for  rolling.  It  is  now  ready 
for  use. 

Summer  Pastry. 

4  cups  pastry  flour,  sifted  4  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  butter,  chop  lA  of  it  into  the  flour,  mix  with  ice 
water  until  it  is  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out,  dot  it  over  with  the 
rest  of  the  butter;  beginning  at  one  end,  roll  it  up.  Turn 
around,  flatten  with  rolling  pin  and  roll  into  an  oblong  sheet. 
Roll  up  again,  and  put  into  ice  chest  for  several  hours  or  until 
the  next  day.  It  is  better  pastry  after  a  long  rest  in  the  re- 
frigerator. 

Suet  Pastry. 

Two  cups  flour,  sifted  with  }4  teaspoon  salt  and  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  cup  suet,  skinned  and  put  through 
meat  chopper.  Proceed  as  for  plain  pastry.  This  is  fine  for 
meat  pies  and  dumplings.  If  ingredients  are  very  cold,  and 
mixing  and  rolling  out  be  carefully  done,  the  result  will  be  a 
flaky  and  delicious  crust. 

Making  a  Pie. 

To  a  novice  there  is  no  more  trying  moment  than  that 
when  the  dough  is  being  rolled  and  shaped  for  the  plate.  To 
get  it  just  thin  enough  and  not  too  thin,  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing to  the  board  and  tearing,  and  to  transfer  it  safely  to  the 
plate  are  to  be  achieved  by  faithful  practice  only,  requiring 
infinite  patience  until  skill  is  acquired.     I  do  not  mean  this 


PASTRY  175 


as  a  discouraging  note,  but  rather  to  encourage  the  worker 
who  fails  at  first  and  to  assure  her  of  ultimate  success  if  she 
is  willing  to  keep  on  trying.  Keep  in  mind  while  rolling  out, 
the  shape  of  your  plate,  and  do  not  allow  the  dough  to  be 
of  uneven  thickness.  If  you  do  not  succeed  at  first,  with 
the  knife  gather  the  dough  together,  and  shape  it  lightly  with 
the  tips  of  your  fingers;  roll  out  again.  Several  rollings  will 
not  damage  the  crust,  provided  you  avoid  handling  it.  If 
making  2  crusts,  cut  the  dough  in  half  before  you  start  to 
roll  it  ready  for  cutting.  When  ready  for  the  plate,  double 
it  over  and  place  the  fold  across  the  middle  of  the  plate,  then 
open  it  out  and  press  firmly  to  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Bal- 
ancing it  on  one  .hand,  with  a  sharp  knife  trim  it  off,  slant- 
ing the  knife  away  from  the  plate.  Brushing  over  the  lower 
crust  with  white  of  egg,  slightly  beaten,  will  prevent  the  juice 
of  fruit  from  soaking  into  the  crust,  which  will  make  it  soggy. 
Fold  the  upper  crust  in  the  same  manner,  brushing  between 
edges  of  crusts  with  cold  water  as  directed  at  the  beginning  of 
this  chapter.  Prick  the  crust  well  to  allow  the  escape  of  steam. 
Gather  up  all  the  pieces  of  dough  remaining,  roll  out,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  press  it  into  the  dough  with  the  rolling  pin,  and 
cut  out  with  cooky  cutter.  Bake.  Or,  sprinkle  with  cheese, 
roll  up  tightly,  roll  out  again  and  sprinkle  the  second  time  with 
cheese.  Cut  into  strips  and  bake.  iVfter  trimming  the  lower 
crust,  do  not  add  remaining  fragments  to  the  dough  for  upper 
crust,  unless  you  need  them. 

Patties. 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  %  inch  thick.  Cut  out  with  a  scal- 
loped cooky  cutter.  Cut  as  many  of  these  rounds  as  you  de- 
sire patties;  they  are  the  bottoms  of  your  patty  shells.  Al- 
low 2  more  circles  for  each  shell,  cut  the  centres  from  these 
with  a  smaller  cutter,  or  a  tumbler  of  thin  glass.  Brush  the 
edge  of  one  of  the  under  pieces  with  ice  water,  fit  a  ring  over 
this,  pressing  with  the  fingers  until  the  edges  fit  closely.  Again 
brush  with  water,  and  fit  another  ring  on  top.  When  all  are 
ready,  put  in  a  cold  place  until  they  are  thoroughly  chilled  and 
stiff.     They   are   best  baked   on   the   Russia  iron   baking  tins 


176  WHAT    AND    HOW 


recommended  for  biscuits  and  small  cakes,  and  should  be 
placed  upon  these  as  fast  as  they  are  put  together.  Bake 
about  25  minutes,  or  until  a  golden  brown.  They  should  rise 
to  their  full  height  without  browning  in  the  first  ten  minutes. 

Fruit  Shells. 

Turn  a  perforated  tin  pie  plate  upside  down,  and  cover  it 
with  pastry,  either  puff  paste  or  plain.  Prick  it  well  and  bake. 
Roll  Out  the  remnants,  cut  into  rings  and  crescents,  or  any 
fancy  shapes,  and  bake  these.  When  baked,  remove  the  shell 
from  the  plate,  fill  with  any  kind  of  cooked  fruit  or  marmalade 
and  decorate  with  the  pastry  figures. 

Apple  Pie. 

Use  plain  or  summer  pastry,  cover  bottom  of  pie  plate 
with  it,  cut  apples  into  small  blocks  rather  than  slices;  they 
will  cook  in  less  time  as  they  do  not  lie  so  close;  fill  plate  very 
full  to  allow  for  shrinking.  Sprinkle  generously  with  sugar  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it.  Add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
and  the  grated  rind  of  y2  lemon.  Now  using  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  dot  it  over  the  apples.  Brush  edges 
of  lower  crust  with  cold  water,  cover  with  upper  crust  and  press 
edges  together  with  a  fork.  It  will  take  this  pie  about  Y^  hour 
to  bake. 

Irish  Apple  Pie. 

Line  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  earthen  dish  (or  basin, 
as  they  call  it  in  Ireland)  with  pastry.  Cut  the  apples  into 
quarters  and  then  into  eighths.  Arrange  them  neatly  in  the 
dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
When  dish  is  full,  pour  over  it  %  cup  water,  and  cover  with 
puff  paste  if  you  have  it;  if  not,  use  plain  pastry.  Bake  for 
an  hour  if  the  dish  is  large  and  the  pie  deep  as  it  should  be. 
In  using  puff  paste  for  pies,  it  is  better  to  confine  it  to  the 
upper  crust  alone,  using  a  plain  paste  for  under  crusts.  Apples 
for  cooking  should  always  be  sour. 

Peach  Cobbler. 

Select  peaches  of  uniform  size  and  good  flavor.  Pare, 
and  drop  into  cold  water  to  keep  from  discoloring.     Line  the 


PASTRY  177 


sides  of  a  pudding  dish  with  pastry,  fill  dish  with  peaches, 
sprinkle  generously  with  sugar,  add  rX  cup  water,  and  cover 
with  pastry.  Bake  ^  hour  and  serve  with  plenty  of  cream. 
The  peaches  should  be  piled  high  enough  to  come  above  the 
edge  of  the  pan  in  the  middle,  as  they  will  shrink  in  the  bak- 
ing.   Peaches  are  not  to  be  cut,  but  kept  whole  with  the  stones. 

French  Apple  Pie. 

Fill  a  deep  pie  plate  with  apples  cut  in  slices.  Sweeten 
and  flavor  with  nutmeg,  lemon  juice,  or  cinnamon,  or  a  com- 
bination as  given  in  recipe  for  Apple  Pie.  Add  1  tablespoon 
water  and  cover  with  any  good  pie  crust.  Bake  ^  hour  or 
until  apples  are  tender  and  crust  nicely  brown.  When  done 
turn  upside  down  on  a  plate  and  eat  hot  with  cream.  This 
is  a  delicious  pie  if  it  does  not  stand  long  enough  for  the  crust 
to  become  soggy  from  the  apples.  Pass  slices  of  cheese  with 
apple  pie. 

Blackberry  Pie. 

Wash  berries,  shake  dry  in  a  colander  and  dredge  with 
flour.  To  1  pint  berries  allow  )4  cup  sugar;  sprinkle  it  over 
them  before  putting  on  top  crust,  and  dot  over  with  tiny  bits 
of  butter.  Bake  ]4  hour.  This  method  applies  to  all  pies 
made  of  berries. 

Mince  Meat. 

\}4  lbs.  suet,  chopped  \}4  lbs.  citron,  cut  fine 

5  lbs.  apples,  chopped  3  tablespoons  cinnamon 

3  lbs.  seeded  raisins,  chopped  1  nutmeg,  grated 
1  lA  lbs.  Sultana  raisins  1  teaspoon  mace 
1  lbs.  currants  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  tablespoon  salt  •  1  tablespoon  allspice 

4  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  quart  brandy 
3  lbs.  lean  beef,  boiled  and  chopped  fine  Cider 

Being  an  old-fashioned  recipe,  the  measure  of  cider  is 
rather  indefinite.  My  experience  has  shown  that  it  requires 
rather  more  than  2  quarts.  It  may  be  possible  to  keep  mince 
meat  without  the  brandy,  but  I  have  not  succeeded  in  doing 
it.  Therefore,  if  one  does  not  care  to  use  the  liquor,  it  will 
be  best  to  make  mince  meat  in  smaller  quantities  and  not  at- 
tempt to  use  more  than  %  of  this  recipe. 


178  WHATANDHOW 


Barred  Pies. 

Marion  Harland  divides  pies  into  three  varieties,  quoting 
a  Southerner  who  calls  them  "Kivered,  unkivered  and 
barred."  We  have  considered  the  "kivered  kind,"  and  leav- 
ing the  "unkivered"  for  the  last,  will  take  up  now  the  barred. 

Line  the  pie  plate,  and  fit  around  the  edge  of  it  over  the 
lower  crust  a  band  of  the  dough  about  ^  inch  wide,  brushing 
the  under  crust  with  cold  water.  Now  cross  the  pie,  after 
putting  in  the  fruit  or  mince  meat,  with  bands  the  width  of 
the  rim,  5  or  6  of  them,  pinching  the  ends  to  make  them  ad- 
here to  the  rim.  Brush  the  latter  with  cold  water  and  put 
on  it  a  second  rim,  covering  the  ends  of  the  strips;  bake  about 
half  an  hour.  To  "lattice"  the  pie,  cut  the  strips  half  the  width, 
lay  6  of  these  across  the  fruit,  and  cross  again  with  6  other 
strips,  weaving  them  under  and  over  the  first  strips.  Pinch 
ends  well  to  under  crust;  brush  ends  with  cold  water  and  cover 
with  a  rim. 

Lemon  Meringue. 

1  cup  water  1  large  lemon,  or 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  2  small  lemons 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Whites  of  2  eggs 

yi  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  corn  starch  smooth  with  a  little  water.  Stir  into  the 
water  heated  in  double  boiler.  Add  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
the  lemon  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Have 
ready  the  egg  yolks  beaten  with  sugar,  add  to  corn  starch  and 
beat  well.     Follow  directions  in  next  recipe  for  baking. 

Lemon  Custard  I. 

yi  cup  sugar  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

}-i  cup  butter  3  eggs 

Juice  and  grated  rind  2  lemons 

Soak  crumbs,  in  milk  to  cover,  for  1  hour.  Cream  but- 
ter and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  whipped  white 
of  1  egg,  reserving  the  others  for  the  meringue.  Now  add 
lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  the  soaked  crumbs.  Line  a  pie 
plate  with  Plain  or  Summer  Pastry,  fit  a  rim  around,  as  de- 
scribed above,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it.  Bake  in  a  hot 
steady  oven   until  a  good  brown  color.        It  will  be  about  yi 


PASTRY  179 


hour.  When  done,  draw  to  the  door  of  the  oven,  and  spread 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  with 
%  tablespoons  powdered  sugar;  return  to  oven  just  long  enough 
to  brown  it  delicately. 

Lemon  Custard  II. 

i  tablespoons  butter  2  lemons,  juice  and  prated  rind 

1>2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  lemon 
juice  and  grated  rind.  Cover  a  pie  plate  with  a  good  crust, 
put  a  rim  on  it,  and  pour  in  the  custard.  Bake  until  custard 
sets  and  crust  is  a  light  brown  color.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  beaten  wrhites  of  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
and  brown  lightly  in  oven. 

Cocoanut  Custard  I. 

}4  cup  butter  White  6  eggs 

\l/£  cups  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  rose  water 

yi.  a  cocoanut,  grated 

Never  use  dried  or  dessicated  cocoanut.     If  you  do  not 

care  to  grate  it  yourself,  the  fresh  grated  cocoanut  can  be  had 

from  a  confectioner.     Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  cocoanut 

and  flavoring.     Fold  in  the  whipped  wdiites  of  eggs,  pour  into 

pie  plate  lined  as  directed  above,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Cocoanut  Custard  II. 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  grated  cocoanut 

2  cups  milk  *4  cup  sugar 

Scald   milk,    pour   gradually   over   the   egg   yolks   slightly 

beaten   with   the   sugar,   add   cocoanut   and   bake   as   directed, 

covering  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  and  2 

tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

Pumpkin  Pie  I. 

3  cups  pumpkin  3  eggs 

*>4  cup  milk  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

]4.  teaspoon  cinnamon  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

K  teaspoon  salt 

Separate  eggs.     Add  yolks  to  pumpkin,  next  sugar,  spices, 

lemon  and  milk  in  order  given.     Bake  according  to  directions 

given  for  Lemon  Custard. 


180  WHATANDHOW 


Pumpkin  Pie  II. 

3  cups  boiled  and  mashed  pumpkin  %  cup  molasses 

2  cups  milk  4  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  ginger 

}i  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Drain  the  mashed  pumpkin  until  free  of  all  water.  Beat 
eggs  separately.  Mix  all  ingredients  except  the  egg  whites, 
and  beat  hard.  Fold  in  these,  and  bake  as  directed  for  Apple 
Custard.     This  pie  may  be  barred  if  desired. 

Sweet  Potato  Custard. 

3  cups  boiled  and  mashed  sweet  $4  cup  sugar 
potato  4  eggs 

l/i  cup  butter  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

2  tablespoons  brandy  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  the  flavorings,  and  the  potato,  pressed  through  a  sieve 
or  potato  ricer.  Beat  well,  and  bake  as  directed  for  lemon 
custard,  add  the  meringue  when  pie  is  baked.  (See  time  table 
for  baking  pies  and  custards.) 

Apple  Custard. 

Pare,  quarter  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  6  or  8  large  apples. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  soft,  without  adding  any  water. 
Rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  stir  in  while  hot,  a  tablespoon 
of  butter.  When  the  butter  is  melted  and  the  apple  sauce 
cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Flavor  with  lemon  juice,  the  grated  rind  of  ^  a  lemon  and  a 
little  nutmeg.  It  is  not  possible  to  give  exact  quantity  of 
sugar,  as  it  will  depend  upon  the  kind  of  apples  used.  Cover  a 
pie  plate  with  a  good  crust,  put  a  rim  on  it,  as  directed,  and 
bake  until  the  custard  is  set;  test  with  a  silver  knife;  when  it 
comes  out  clean  after  thrusting  into  the  middle  of  the  custard, 
there  need  be  no  doubt  that  the  custard  is  set.  Cover  with  a 
meringue  of  the  beaten  whites  and  4  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.  This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious 
pies  that  one  could  serve  to  her  family  or  guests.  It  is  delicate 
and  light,  thus  is  better  to  serve  after  a  full  dinner  than  some 
of  the  richer  pies. 


PASTRY  181 


Eccles  Cakes. 

Make  any  good  pastry  as  for  pies.  Take  a  piece  the  size 
of  a  large  egg  and  roll  it  out  the  shape  and  size  of  a  teaplate, 
making  it  thinner  around  the  edges  than  in  the  centre.  Al- 
lowing a  heaping  tablespoon  dried  currants  for  each  cake, 
measure,  wash  and  pat  them  between  two  towels  to  dry  par- 
tially. Put  into  a  bowl,  sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar  and 
moisten  with  orange  juice  or  preserved  fruit  juice  of  any  kind. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  put  a  tablespoonful  in  the  centre  of  each 
round  of  pastry.  Gather  the  edges  together  over  the  mixture, 
pinch  them  well  so  that  they  will  not  come  apart  in  the  baking, 
and  press  lightly  with  rolling  pin;  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  slit 
an  inch  long  to  allow  steam  to  escape  and  bake  20  or  25  minutes. 

The  flavoring  may  be  varied  according  to  individual 
tastes,  the  syrup  from  spiced  peaches  or  plums  makes  a 
good  liquid  for  moistening,  as  does  also  lemon  juice  diluted 
with    a    little    water. 

Banbury  Tarts. 

Roll  out  puff  paste  and  cut  circles  the  desired  size.  An 
ordinary  saucer  about  5  inches  in  diameter  can  be  used,  cutting 
around  it  with  a  knife.  Place  the  filling  on  one  side  of  this 
circle  and  fold  the  other  side  over,  moistening  the  edges  with 
cold  water  and  pressing  them  well  together.  With  a  tined  fork 
mark  around  the  edges.  This  helps  hold  them  together.  An 
ordinary  silver  fork  will  not  do,  use  either  a  three  or  four  tined 
kitchen  fork.  Prick  three  times  on  top  to  let  out  steam.  Ar- 
range on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  hot 
enough  to  brown  them  after  they  swell  to  their  full  size. 

Filling  for  Banbury  Tarts. 

Xyi  cups  seeded  raisins  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

yi  cup  nuts 

Put  raisins  and  nuts  through  meat  chopper,  add  egg 
slightly  beaten,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Let  this  mixture 
stand  several  hours  before  using. 


182  WHATANDHOW 


CHAPTER  XV 


ICE  CREAM  AND  FROZEN  FRUITS. 

To  freeze  ice  cream,  water  ice,  frozen  fruits,  frozen  pud- 
dings and  mousse,  use  1  measure  of  coarse  salt  to  3  meas- 
ures pounded  ice.  Use  a  burlap  bag  to  hold  the  ice,  and  crush 
with  the  broad  side  of  an  axe,  or  a  heavy  wooden  mallet.  Turn 
out  into  a  bucket,  mix  with  the  salt,  and  pack  solidly  around 
the  can.  After  placing  the  can  in  the  wooden  tub,  adjust  the 
handle  to  make  sure  that  it  is  in  the  socket  and  will  turn  prop- 
erly. After  ice  and  salt  have  been  packed  around  the  can, 
remove  the  lid  and  wipe  it  perfectly  dry  before  pouring  in  the 
mixture  to  be  frozen.  Do  not  fill  the  can  too  full,  the  mixture 
will  increase  in  bulk  during  the  process,  at  least  one-fourth, 
generally   more. 

Turn  crank  slowly  at  first,  more  rapidly  after  it  begins 
to  freeze,  and  when  done,  remove  the  dasher,  using  great  care 
that  no  salt  finds  its  way  into  the  cream;  mix  ice  and  salt  for 
repacking,  in  proportion  of  1  of  salt  to  4  of  ice.  Cover  with 
carpet  or  newspaper  to  exclude  air.  Frozen  mixtures  should 
always  "ripen"  for  two  or    three   hours  after  being  repacked. 

Note  the  difference  in  quantity  of  salt  used  in  packing 
after  cream  is  frozen.  If  too  much  salt  is  used,  the  ice  will  melt 
rapidly,  necessitating  repacking.  All  freezers  should  have  a 
hole  near  the  top  of  outside  tub  for  the  escape  of  water.  Pour 
all  water  out  before  repacking. 

To  Mould  Mousse. 

All  mixtures  to  be  frozen  without  stirring  may  be  moulded 
in  melon  moulds  or  in  baking  powder  cans,  1  pound  size.  Fill 
mould  to  overflowing,  cover  with  waxed  paper,  and  put  on  the 
lid.  The  mixture  flowing  over  the  edges,  freezes  and  prevents 
the  entrance  of  salt  water. 

A  mousse  contains  whipped  cream  and  gelatine,  and  is 
frozen  in  a  mould  without  stirring. 

Parfait  is  a  mixture  of  eggs  and  syrup  with  whipped  cream, 
and  is  frozen  like  mousse. 


ICE  CREAM  AND  FROZEN  FRUITS  is:; 


Sherbet  is  water  ice  with  whites  of  eggs  added. 

Sorbet  is  frozen  punch. 

Frappe  is  a  water  ice  combined  with  rich  cream  and  frozen. 
Served  always  in  sherbet  glasses  at  afternoon  teas  or  similar 
functions. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  I. 

This  is   the  old-fashioned  ice  cream  for  which   Wilming- 
ton  was   famous   a  generation   or  two   ago.      Good   ice   cream 
may  be   made   by   using  substitutes  for  rich  cream,   but  this' 
stands  in  a  class  entirely  by  itself,  as  the  very  best  ice  cream 
that  can  be  made. 

l/i  a  vanilla  bean,  split  and  the  ^4  cup  granulated  sugar,  with  the 

seeds  removed  vanilla  seeds  crushed  into  it 

1  quart  cream 

Scald  half  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  vanilla  beans 
crushed  together.  Also  the  shell  of  the  bean.  Cool,  strain, 
add  remaining  cream  and  freeze.  This  will  make  3  pints  ice 
cream. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II. 

Make  a  custard  of  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs  and  Y^  cup  sugar. 
Follow  instructions  for  making  custard  given  on  page  147 
After  returning  to  the  fire,  stir  in  1  tablespoon  corn  starch, 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Let  this  cook,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  thick  and  free  from  the  taste  of  corn 
starch.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  add  1  pint  cream  and  freeze. 
This  custard  recipe  is  for  1  pint,  it  makes  3  pints  ice  cream. 

Frozen  Custard  with  Fruit. 

1  quart  milk  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

4  eggs,  yolks  only  ^4,  cup  sugar 

Make  according  to  preceding  recipe,  add  2  cups  straw- 
berries, sprinkled  with  sugar  and  mashed,  or  any  fruit  desired. 
This  makes  2  quarts. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. 

Make  a  custard  according  to  preceding  recipe.  To  this  add 
2  cups  well  mashed  banana  pulp  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  The 
banana  pulp  must  be  very  smooth  and  free  from  lumps.     This 


184  WHATANDHOW 


is  a  delicious  ice  cream.  >^  of  this  quantity  will  make  a  little 
over  1  quart  when  frozen. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

To  recipe  above,  add  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  melted 
over  hot  water  and  diluted  with  enough  hot  water  to  make 
it  pour  easily.  Omit  fruit,  and  flavor  with  about  2  teaspoons 
extract  vanilla.     Freeze. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

may  be  made  by  adding  strawberries,  sugared  and  crushed, 
to  either  of  the  recipes  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  omitting  the 
vanilla.  Let  berries  stand  with  sugar  for  an  hour  before  mash- 
ing; they  may  be  strained  through  cheese  cloth  if  desired,  but 
the  cream  is  best  with  the  berries  in  it  if  they  are  well  crushed. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  custard  made  by  recipe  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 
II,  add  1  cup  macaroons  pounded  fine,  and  1  cup  stale  lady 
finger  crumbs.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Freeze.  Makes 
nearly  2  quarts. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  custard  made  by  recipe  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 
II,  add  1  can  Hawaiian  pineapple,  crushed,  or  2  cups  shredded 
fresh  pineapple.  All  of  these  recipes  for  ice  cream  may  be 
made  by  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  I  if  desired,  which  uses  cream 
instead  of  custard.    Omit  vanilla  flavoring  if  fruit  is  added. 

Maple  Sugar  Ice  Cream. 

To  1  quart  of  custard  add  1>£  teaspoons  Mapeline  and 
freeze. 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

2  cups  water  4  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges 

x/i  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin  Juice  1  lemon 

Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  boiled  20  minutes.  Add 
fruit  juices,  and  gelatine  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Beat  un- 
til cool.     Add  eggs  beaten  until  dry,  turn  into  freezer  and  stir 


ICE     CREAM     AND     FROZEN     FRUITS  lsi 


constantly  until  stiff.  Remove  dasher,  cover  and  repack.  Al- 
low it  to  ripen  ^  to  4  hours.  This  quantity  makes  3  pints  or 
slightly    more. 

Lemon  Water  Ice. 
Tse  preceding  recipe,  omitting  orange  juice,  with  juice  of 
3  lemons  for  flavoring.  All  fruit  ices  are  made  by  same  formula 
as  Orange  Ice,  omitting  the  orange  juice  and  substituting  for  it 
any  fruit  juice.  The  juice  of  1  lemon  is  necessary  for  flavor 
except  in  Raspberry  Ice,  where  3  lemons  are  called  for  to  coun- 
teract the  insipid  sweet  of  the  berry. 

Peach  Water  Ice. 

Use  6  ripe  peaches  mashed,  juice  1  lemon. 

Pineapple  Water  Ice. 

Use  1  pint  Hawaiian  shredded  pineapple  and  juice  1  lemon. 
Mash  pineapple  through  sieve. 

Raspberry  Water  Ice. 

Use  1  quart  raspberries  mashed  fine,  juice  3  lemons.  — 
Linda  Hull  Earned  in  "Hostess  of  To-day." 

Cherry  Water  Ice. 

1  quart  cherries,  stoned  2  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  3  eggs,  unbeaten 

Juice  1  lemon 

Mix  cherries  and  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  1  hour, 
crushing  with  a  fork.  Rub  through  wire  sieve,  extracting 
juice  and  pulp.    Add  other  ingredients  and  freeze. 

Grape  Water  Ice. 

4  cups  water  2  cups  grape  juice 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  2  oranges 

Juice  1  lemon 

Heat  grapes  and  put  through  fruit  press,  if  you  have  it; 
if  not,  heat  grapes  and  mash;  let  them  drip  all  night  in  a  jelly 
bag.  Or,  you  may  buy  a  pint  bottle  of  grape  juice.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  10  minutes,  add  fruit  juices  and  freeze.  This  recipe 
makes  nearly  2  quarts. 


186  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Apricot  Ice. 

1  lb.  dried  apricots  soaked  over  night,  boiled  soft  and  rub- 
bed through  a  sieve.  Add  1  cup  water,  1}4  cups  sugar,  juice 
of  1  orange  and  freeze.  This  is  a  delicious  ice  and  well  worth 
making.  Wash  apricots  well,  use  1  quart  of  water  to  soak  them 
in  and  cook  in  the  same  water.    This  makes  2  quarts  of  ice. 

Frozen  Rice  Pudding. 

Boil  1  cup  rice  in  milk  until  thoroughly  tender.  Add  }4 
cup  sugar,  dash  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  flavoring,  and  when  cool 
1  cup  whipped  cream.  Mould  and  freeze  as  mousse.  Serve  with 
Whipped  Cream  Sancp  —Mrs.  Larned. 

Marion  Harland's  Berry  Surprise. 

1  quart  strawberries  1  cup  water 

l  cup  sugar  Whites  .'5  eggs,  unbeaten 

Juice  1  lemon 

Mash  berries  and  sugar  well  together,  add  other  ingred- 
ients and  freeze.  This  quantity  will  almost  fill  a  2  quart  freezer 
when  frozen.  It  is  well  named  a  "surprise,"  and  is  a  most 
delicious  frozen  dainty.  The  berries  may  be  rubbed  through 
a  sieve  which  is  an  improvement.  Raspberries  or  peaches  may 
be  used  instead  of  strawberries. 

As  a  substitute  for  frappe  at  an  afternoon  tea,  this  will 
be  found  most  economical  and  quite  as  satisfactory. 

Strawberry  Mousse. 

1  quart  thin  cream  1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin 

1  quart  strawberries  £  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  ',)  tablespoons  hot  water 

Wash  and  hull  berries,  cover  with  the  sugar  and  let 
stand  1  hour.  Press  through  sieve.  Add  gelatin  which  has 
been  soaked  10  minutes  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  the 
hot  water.  Set  in  pan  of  ice  water,  and  stir  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  fold  in  the  whip  from  the  cream,  mould  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  4  hours. 

Raspberries  may  be  used  instead  of  strawberries. 


ICE     CREAM     AND     FROZEN     FRUITS  18 


Coffee  Mousse. 
Use  preceding  recipe,  substituting  1  cup  strong  coffee  in- 
fusion for  fruit  juice. 

Angel  Parfait. 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  ;5  eggs 

J ,  cup  water  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1  •  tablespoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads.  Pour  slowly  over 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  continue  beating  until  mix- 
ture is  cool.  Add  cream  beaten  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Mould 
and  freeze.— Miss  Farmar. 


Golden  Mousse. 

8  eggs  y2  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

:>  tablespoons  sherry  ]/2  cup  water 

x/l  cup  sugar 

Beat  eggs  separately.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water, 
boiling  it  without  stirring  until  it  will  spin  a  thread  from  the 
spoon.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  this  syrup  to  the  yolks,  cook, 
stirring  constantly  until  mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  sherry  and  lemon  juice,  and  beat  until  it  is  cold. 
When  the  egg  whites  are  whipped  until  stiff,  add  slowly  the 
remainder  of  the  hot  syrup,  beating  constantly.  Combine 
mixtures,  mould  and  freeze.  Pack  according  to  directions 
given  for  mixtures  frozen  without  stirring,  and  let  it  stand 
4  hours. 

Pineapple  Mousse. 

1  can  grated  Hawaiian  pineapple  Juice  lA  lemon 

]4  tablespoon  Minute,  or  granu-  1  cup  sugar 

lated  gelatin  1  quart  cream 

Cover  gelatin  with  cold  water  and  soak  10  minutes. 
Heat  the  pineapple  and  drain  off  the  juice  of  which  there 
should  be  1  cup.  Add  gelatin  and  stir  until  dissolved  in  the 
hot  syrup.  Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  cook  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Strain  and  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
fold  in  the  whip  from  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  directed  in  direc- 
tions  for   Moulding   Mousse. 


188  WHATANDHOW 


Frozen  Plum  Pudding. 

2  cups  milk  4  tablespoons  candied  fruit 

4  eggs  1  tablespoon  Sultana  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  currants 

1  cup  cream,  whipped  1  tablespoon  seeded  raisins 

}4.  cup  powdered  macaroons  2  tablespoons  chopped  nuts 

Make  custard  of  the  milk,  egg  yolks  and  sugar,  remove 
from  fire  and  cool.  Fold  in  the  whipped  whites  and  whipped 
cream.  Now  add  other  ingredients;  freeze  as  ice  cream.  When 
frozen,  mould  as  for  mousse  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  4  hours. 
If  fruit  is  soaked  in  sherry  for  1  hour  before  adding,  it 
will  not  freeze  through,  which  is  a  great  advantage. 

Cafe  Frappe. 

1  tablespoon  pulverized  coffee  2  cups  thick  cream 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  sugar 

Pour  water  over  coffee  and  strain  through  jelly  bag. 
Add  sugar  while  coffee  is  hot  and  stir  until  sugar  dissolves. 
Add  cream  and  freeze.  Makes  enough  for  12  sherbet  glasses. 
Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  sweetened  whipped  cream  on  each 
glass. 

Strawberry  Frappe 
is  made  the  same  as  preceding  recipe,  substituting  straw- 
berry juice  for  coffee.  Use  1  quart  berries,  mash  with  the  sugar, 
and  let  stand  for  1  hour,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  If  there 
are  not  3  cups  juice,  add  water  to  bring  it  to  the  required 
quantity. 


189 


CHAPTER  XVI 

LUNCHEON  AND  SUPPER. 

Mince  of  Beef. 

A  good  sauce  is  the  only  foundation  for  a  perfect  mince 
and  makes  all  the  difference  between  this  and  the  usual  greasy 
mixture  called  "hash."  Gravy  left  from  the  roast  is  always 
useful  and  combined  with  stewed  tomatoes  without  the  seeds 
makes  a  good  sauce.  In  the  absence  of  good  gravy,  make  a 
brown  sauce,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice 
or  onion  juice,  add  tomatoes  and  allow  the  minced  meat  to 
cook  in  it  only  long  enough  to  become  thoroughly  hot.  A 
White  Sauce  seasoned  with  nutmeg,  Creole  or  Mexican 
Sauce,  or  Brown  Sauce  with  herbs,  all  make  good  foundations 
for  minced  beef,  pork  or  lamb.  Serve  over  squares  of  toast; 
these  minces  should  not  be  too  dry.    Or, 

The  meat  may  be  sliced  in  thin  pieces  and  cooked  in  the 
sauce,  allowing  it  only  time  to  heat  thoroughly.  Meat  once 
cooked,  toughens  and  loses  its  taste  if  stewed  too  long  in  sauce. 

Cottage  Pie. 

Chop  cold  meat  very  fine  and  combine  with  ]4  cup  sauce 
for  each  cup  meat.  Put  into  a  buttered  bake  dish,  cover  with 
mashed  potato  beaten  very  light  with  cream,  butter,  pepper 
and  s'alt,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  you  are  sure  it  is  well  heated 
through  and  the  potatoes  are  nicely  browned.  They  will 
brown  better  if  brushed  over  with  melted  butter.  The  potato 
should  be  not  less  than  2  inches  thick  over  the  meat. 

Cream  Mince  of  Veal,  I. 

After  using  a  knuckle  of  veal  for  soup  stock,  pass  the 
meat  twice  through  the  meat  chopper.  Make  1  cup  White 
Sauce,  add  yolk  of  1  egg  and  pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  meat 
in  buttered  ramekins,  cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  with  but- 
tered crumbs  and  cook  in  oven  long. enough  to  heat  through 
and  brown  the  crumbs.  This  quantity  of  sauce  is  sufficient  for 
2  cups  meat. 


190  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Cream  Mince  of  Veal,  II. 

Mix  the  mince  with  the  sauce  made  by  directions  above 
and  serve  on  toast,  cooking  mince  only  long  enough  to  heat 
through.  A  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  a  few  gratings  of 
nutmeg  will  be  an  improvement. 

Cream  Mince  of  Lamb. 

May  be  made  according  to  recipe  for  Cream  Mince  of 
Veal,  II.,  cutting  the  meat  into  neat  dice  instead  of  chopping  it. 

Cream  Mince  of  Ham. 

Chop  ham  very  fine,  mix  with  White  Sauce,  and  after  put- 
ting into  ramekins,  drop  an  egg  on  the  top;  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  cook  in  oven  until  egg  is  set.  Buttered  crumbs 
may  be  sprinkled  on  top  of  the  egg  before  putting  into  the 
oven,  but  it  is  very  good  without. 

Corned  Beef  With  Egg. 

There  is  no  more  delicious  mince  than  that  made  of  boiled 
corned  beef.  Chop  very  fine  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped  into  tiny  dice.  Moisten  with 
milk;  it  should  be  quite  soft  and  creamy.  Put  over  the  fire, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  lightly  with  flour, 
stirring  constantly  with  a  fork.  Put  into  buttered  ramekins, 
drop  on  each  one  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
bake  in  oven  until  egg  is  set. 

Corned  Beef  Minced. 

Chop  cold  boiled  corned  beef  very  fine  and  add  an  equal 
quantity  cold  boiled  potatoes  also  chopped.  Moisten  to  a 
thick  paste  with  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt 
some  bacon  fat  if  you  have  it  (if  not  use  butter)  in  an  omelet 
pan  and  spread  the  mince  evenly  in  the  pan.  Cook  very  slowly 
until  a  crust  forms  underneath,  double  over  like  an  omelet  and 
turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

Serving  Cold  Meat. 

Cut  very  thin  slices  from  the  roast  either  of  beef  or  lamb, 
trim  into  uniform  size  so  far  as  possible  and  arrange  neatly 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  191 


on  a  dish,  the  slices  overlapping.  Make  this  attractive  with  a 
border  of  water  cress  or  lettuce  hearts,  or  lettuce  leaves  cut 
into  strips  with  scissors.  Sprinkle  this  border  with  French 
dressing  if  you  care  for  it.  Slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  strips 
of  sweet  red  peppers,  or  tiny  red  radishes  are  effective  in  the 
green  border. 

Or,  serve  the  meat  with  devilled  eggs  laid  around  it  with 
green  sprigs  of  parsley  or  cress  between  them,  or  with  lemon 
cups  instead  of  the  eggs. 

Lemon  Cups. 
Cut  large  lemons  in  half  and  scoop  out  all  of  the  pulp;  fill 
with  cold  slaw  mixed  with  mayonnaise.  The  slaw  may  be 
made  of  equal  quantities  of  shredded  cabbage  and  chopped 
apples.  Use  the  lemon  juice  and  pulp  for  lemonade.  Or  fill 
the  cups  with  Sauce  Tartare  or  pickles. 

Souffle  Cutlets. 

For  nine  cutlets,  take  \l/2  pounds  veal  cutlet,  put  twice 
through  the  meat  chopper.  Add  y$  cup  butter,  %  cup  cream, 
20  drops  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  }4 
teaspoon  salt,  and  dash  of  pepper.  With  a  pestle  pound  to 
smooth  paste  in  a  chopping  bowl.  Shape  into  cutlets  }4  inch 
thick  and  larger  than  you  want  them  when  cooked,  as  they 
contract  in  size  and  puff  up,  in  the  cooking.  Egg  and  crumb 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  All  cutlets  and  croquettes  will  fry  more 
satisfactorily,  if  allowed  to  stand  at  least  one  hour,  in  a  cold 
place  after  egging  and  crumbing,  before  frying. 

Minced  Ham  With  Eggs. 

From  your  delicatessen  dealer,  purchase  sliced  minced 
ham  in  whole  slices.  If  you  do  not  insist  upon  whole  slices, 
you  will  not  have  pieces  large  enough  to  cut  from.  With  a 
cooky  cutter  the  size  of  the  muffin  rings  for  poaching  eggs, 
cut  rounds  from  the  slices,  and  fry  these,  without  burning  or 
crisping,  in  a  little  dripping.  Arrange  as  many  as  you  need, 
on  a  platter  and  keep  hot  while  you  poach  an  equal  number 
of  eggs  in  muffin  rings  as  directed  in  Chapter  XVII. 


192  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Slip  an  egg  on  each  round  of  minced  ham,  and  serve  plain, 
or  with  Sauce  Hollandaise.  Eggs  may  be  fried  in  the  muffin 
rings,  instead  of  poached.  Cut  the  remnants  of  ham  slices 
into  crescents,  which  shape  they  assume  partly  as  the  rounds 
are  cut  out.    Fry  separately  and  use  as  a  garnish. 

Frizzled  Beef. 

Select  your  chipped  beef  judiciously.  There  is  a  righteous 
prejudice  against  this  dish  as  it  is  often  prepared,  but  if  the 
dried  beef  be  really  chipped  into  feathery  flakes,  and  not  cut 
into  thick  slices,  it  is  acceptable  to  any  one.  Melt  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  toss  the  meat  around  in  it 
with  a  fork  until  it  is  coated  with  the  butter.  Sprinkle  with 
3  teaspoons  flour  and  continue  the  tossing,  allowing  it  to  brown 
slightly.  Now  pour  over  it  gradually  about  1  cup  cream  if  you 
have  it,  if  not  use  milk.  If  this  is  not  enough  cream  to  make 
a  smooth  creamy  sauce,  add  a  ittle  more.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  using  the  salt  cautiously,  remembering  that  the 
meat  is  already  salted.  Cook  just  long  enough  to  lose  the 
taste  of^the  flour,  and  serve  at  once.  This  recipe  is  for  yi 
pound  dried  beef.  Or,  put  meat  through  meat  chopper  and 
proceed  as  above  and  serve  on  toast. 

Fresh  Chipped  Beef. 

y^  pound  beef  chipped  from  the  tender  side  of  the  round. 
Melt  good  dripping  or  butter  and  toss  the  meat  around  in  it, 
adding  flour  as  directed  above.  After  the  flour  is  well  stirred 
in,  add  hot  water  to  make  a  thin  gravy.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  kitchen  bouquet.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  for  an 
hour. 

A  Mould  of  Calf's  Head. 

Before  boiling  the  hea;d,  which,  of  course,  has  been  properly 
prepared  by  your  dealer,  wash  thoroughly  until  you  are  sure 
that  the  water  has  penetrated  every  crevice.  Boil  in  a  small 
quantity  of  waiter,  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  strain.  Return  the  water  to  the  fire  and  let 
it  boil  down  to  }£  the  quantity.  Discard  the  fat  and  the 
brains,  use  only  the  tongue  and  lean  meat.     Put  through  the 


LUNCHEON     AND    SUPPER  1!):) 


meat  chopper  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  yi  table- 
spoon minced  parsley,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  ]4  lemon 
and  Ji  teaspoon  ground  cloves.  Mix  all  well  together.  Heat 
1  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled.  Melt  in  it 
]2  tablespoon  butter.  and  add  the  seasoned  meat;  stir 
until  heated  through.  Rinse  a  mould  in  cold  water,  press  }4 
the  mixture  into  it;  next  put  against  the  sides  of  the  mould, 
to  form  a  ring,  a  row  of  sliced  hard  boiled  egg,  and  put  a  layer 
of  same,  over  the  meat.  Put  in  the  remainder  of  the  meat, 
pressing  it  down  on  the  egg  and  against  the  sides  of  the  mould. 
When  ready  to  use,  turn  out  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  or  decorate 
with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  cut  very  thin.  A  very  good 
picnic  dish  and  attractive  with  its  yellow  and  white  rings. 


Jellied  Chicken. 

Boil  a  stewing  chicken  the  day  before  it  is  needed,  and 
set  away  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  to  chill.  Remove 
every  particle  of  fat;  cut  the  chicken  into  neat  pieces,  quite 
small,  discarding  skin  and  fat.  Take  2  cups  of  the  chicken 
liquor,  bring  to  the  boil  and  strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Re- 
turn to  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoon  gelatine,  previously  soaked 
10  minutes  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and  season  with  celery  ex- 
tract, salt  and  pepper.  Strain  again  and  cool.  Dip  a  mould 
in  cold  water,  put  a  little  of  the  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  it.  Now 
put  on  top  of  this  a  layer  of  chicken  %  the  quantity  you  have, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  this  more  of  the 
jelly,  and  when  it  hardens  a  little,  lay  the  remainder  of  the 
chicken  upon  it.  Cover  with  jelly.  When  the  mould  is  turned 
out,  the  next  day,  the  jelly  should  be  on  the  top,  the  sides  and 
the  bottom  of  the  mould,  encasing  the  chicken.  This  may  be 
made  a  decorative  dish  if  a  ring  of  hard  boiled  and  sliced  eggs 
be  pressed  against  the  sides  of  mould  before  the  second  layer 
of  chicken  is  put  in.  Olives  stoned  and  cut  in  half  may  be 
used  at  the  top  of  the  egg  rings.  When  turned  out,  garnish 
with  green  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise.  A  can  of  Richardson 
and  Robbins'  boned  chicken  will  make  a  good  mould  of  Jellied 
Chicken,  if  you  make  a  jelly  to  pour  over  it.    If  you  have  no 


194  WHAT     AND     HOW 


chicken  stock  use  water  in  which  celery  tops  have  been  boiled 
or  season  with  onion,  celery  seed  or  celery  salt. 

Chicken  Mould. 

1  small  can  Richardson  &  Rob-  1  tablespoon  gelatin 

bins'  boned  chicken  1  cup  White  Sauce 

Mayonnaise 

Chop  chicken  very  fine  and  mix  with  the  White  Sauce, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dissolve  the  gelatin  (previously 
soaked  in  cold  water  to  cover  for  10  minutes)  in  3  tablespoons 
hot  water,  add  and  mix  well.  Press  into  small  moulds  and 
put  in  a  cold  place  for  several  hours.  Turn  out  each  mould 
on  a  lettuce  leaf,  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  a 
stuffed  olive  and  strips  of  pimento. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

To  one  can,  (small  size),  of  boned  chicken,  add  a  cup  of 
White  Sauce  made  with  cream  if  convenient;  cook  together 
until  chicken  is  well  heated  through.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture  carefully  to  avoid  curdling.  It  is 
prudent  to  allow  the  chicken  to  cool  slightly  before  adding  the 
egg.  Cook  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly  and  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  dash  or  two  of  nutmeg.  The  chicken 
may  be  cut  into  small  pieces  as  for  salad,  or  used  just  as  it  comes 
apart,  when  turned  out  of  the  can.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 

Chicken  a  la  King. 

a  4  lb.  chicken  y2  lb.  fresh  mushrooms 

yi  green  pepper  sweet  2  cups  Sauce  Supreme 

Salt  and  pepper 

Prepare  chicken  as  for  Chicken  Salad,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Peel  mushrooms,  cut  in  pieces  and  toss  in  butter 
over  the  fire  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  a  few  minutes.  Add 
the  pepper  cut  in  small  pieces.  Stir  in  y2  cup  chicken  broth 
and  add  mixture  to  chicken.  Cook  in  the  sauce,  slowly,  for 
5  minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  hot.  Sherry  seasoning  belongs  to 
this  dish,  in  the  absence  of  wine,  season  to  taste  with  nutmeg 
and  lemon  juice.     Be  cautious  in  the  use  of  nutmeg,  too  much 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER 


spoils  just  enough  will  season  without  being  perceptible  above 
other   seasoning. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. 

v! '  j  cups  lobster  meat  cut  into  neat  pieees.  Melt  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  pan,  and  toss  the  lobster  around  in  it, 
over  the  fire,  until  it  begins  to  brown.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  1  eup  of  cream  or  rich  milk  mixed  with  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs.  Heat  gradually  until  it  begins  to  boil;  remove 
from  fire  and  add  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 

Grab  a  la  Newburg. 

Follow  preceding  recipe  using  crab  meat  instead  of  lobster. 

Creamed  Roe,  I. 

When  fresh  roe  is  out  of  season,  an  excellent  article  may 
be  bought  in  tin  cans  at  a  moderate  cost.  It  makes  a  most  ac- 
ceptable luncheon  at  any  time. 

Mash  roe  with  a  fork,  removing  any  pieces  of  membrane 
which  may  have  been  left  in  the  can.  Sprinkle  with  lemon 
juice.  Make  1  cup  White  Sauce,  adding  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  well  buttered 
ramekins,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Creamed  Roe,  II. 

Make  sauce  as  above,  heat  roe  in  it  without  mashing  and 
serve  hot  on  toast.  Creamed  Roe  I.  may  also  be  served  on 
toast  without  browning.  If  fresh  roe  be  used  for  these  recipes, 
it  must  be  boiled  before  creaming. 

Shrimps. 

May  be  used  in  salads,  creamed  in  ramekins  or  used  in 
patties.  Creamed  shrimps  are  delicious  served  on  rounds  of 
toast.     Follow  recipe  for  creamed  lobster. 

To  Prepare  Terrapin. 

Plunge  the  terrapin  into  a  pot  of  boiling  wrater  and  boil 
hard  for  5  minutes,  closely  covered.     Take  from  the  water  and 


196  WHAT     AND     HOW 


rub  skin  from  head,  tail  and  feet.  Return  to  pot,  and  boil  45 
minutes  by  which  time  the  meat  should  be  tender.  Remove 
from  water  and  cool;  remove  nails  from  feet,  and  separate  the 
2  shells.  Now,  with  the  body  exposed,  remove  liver  and  gall 
bladder  very  carefully.  Should  the  latter  break,  the  whole 
terrapin  would  be  unfit  for  use.  Discard  gall  bladder,  intes- 
tines and  sand  bags;  all  the  rest  is  good  meat.  The  small 
bones  are  cooked  with  the  meat  on  them.  Save  all  liquor 
when  removing  shell. 

Terrapin. 

After  preparing  the  terrapin  meat,  make  a  sauce,  as  follows: 

l/2  lb.  butter,  (1  cup)  \y£  pints  cream 

1  cup  flour  7  eggs,  hard  boiled 

2  tablespoons  brandy  6"  tablespoons  sherry  wine 
Salt  and  pepper  Cayenne 

1  quart  terrapin  meat 

Melt  butter  in  flat  sauce  pan.  Allow  it  to  brown  but  not 
burn.  Add  flour  gradually,  browning  it  in  the  butter.  Stir 
vigorously  with  a  wire  spoon.  Add  the  cream,  and  if  the 
sauce  is  not  brown  enough,  add  a  little  kitchen  bouquet.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  eggs  through  a  sieve,  or  squeeze  through  the 
vegetable  press;  rub  this  to  a  smooth  paste  with  "Z  tablespoons 
of  the  cream,  which  should  be  reserved  from  the  quantity  used 
in  the  sauce.  Stir  this  into  the  sauce  and  add  the  terrapin 
meat,  with  any  liquor  which  may  have  been  found  in  the  shell, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Let  all  come  to  the  boil,  add  the  wine  and  brandy  and  serve. 
This  recipe  is  for  1  quart  terrapin,  4  large,  or  10  small  ones 
should  yield  the  amount.  I  have  allowed  this  recipe  to  remain, 
although  it  requires  brandy  and  sherry.  There  can  be  no 
terrapin  without  these  seasonings,  if  you  have  none,  do  not 
waste  your  terrapin. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Shell  and  blanch  the  almonds.  To  blanch,  pour  boiling 
water  over  them  and  let  stand  15  minutes,  cover  with  cold 
water  for  10  minutes.  They  will  then  pop  out  of  their  skins 
with  a  little  squeeze.  Dry  between  two  towels.  In  a  frying 
pan,   heat  salad  oil  to  boiling,  fry  the  almonds  in  this  until 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  19' 


brown,  remove  and  drain  on  paper.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
shake  them  in  a  paper  to  remove  superfluous  salt.  Or,  after 
removing  skins,  they  may  be  soaked  4  hours  in  strong  salt 
water,  after  which,  drain,  dry  and  fry  in  oil  as  directed  above. 
By  this  latter  method,  there  is  no  appearance  of  salt  on  the 
nuts. 

Salted  Peanuts. 

Peanuts  may  be  salted  according  to  directions  for  almonds. 

Beauregard  Cod. 

To  1  pound  fresh  cod  boiled  allow  2  cups  White  Sauce. 
Let  the  fish  be  very  cold,  flake  it  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  all  together  5  minutes.  Boil  3 
eggs  for  20  minutes  and  cool  in  cold  water.  Remove  shells, 
chop  whites  very  fine  with  a  silver  knife,  and  rub  the  yolks 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Pour  the  hot  fish  mixture  over  slices 
of  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  the  poAvdered  yolks,  and  ar- 
range the  chopped  whites  in  little  mounds  over  the  entire  sur- 
face. A  good  way  to  use  remnants  of  boiled  fish,  cod,  haddock 
or  halibut,  and  allow  sauce  according  to  the  amount  of  fish. 

Tongue  Relish. 

After  using  the  best  portions  of  a  tongue,  put  the  broken 
and  unsliceable  pieces  through  the  meat  chopper.  Mix  with 
it  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  1  tablespoon  milk,  ]4  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  mixture  until  thor- 
oughly heated  and  pour  on  to  slices  of  toast.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Square  crackers 
may  be  used  instead  of  toast  and  serve  individually. 
• 

Sardine  Relish. 

Heat  yi  cup  milk  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  9  or  10 
small  sardines  freed  from  skin  and  bones  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Chop  %  hard  boiled  eggs  and  mix  well,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper.    Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 


198  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Fish  Scallop. 

1  cup  cold  cooked  fish  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cold  cooked  macaroni  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  cup  White  Sauce 

K  cup  tomatoes,  stewed  and  strained 

Cut  macaroni  into  small  bits  (here  you  will  find  the  kitchen 
scissors  useful)  add  tomatoes  to  the  White  Sauce  and  heat  to 
boiling  point.  Add  seasoning  and  fish,  turn  into  buttered 
baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  covered 
)4  hour,  uncover  and  brown. 

Creamed  Codfish  in  Ramekins. 

Wash  and  drain  dry  a  box  of  shredded  codfish.  Mix  with 
1  cup  White  Sauce  and  put  into  buttered  ramekins.  Drop  an 
egg  on  each  one,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  cook  in 
oven  long  enough  to  set  the  egg.  Season  the  sauce  and  the 
egg  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Baked  Omelet. 

5  eggs  1  pint  milk,  hot 

1%  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  eggs  together  until  light,  add  flour  and  beat  until 
well  mixed.  Add  milk  and  salt  and  bake  in  buttered  dish, 
(using  a  tablespoon  of  butter);  it  will  bake  in  about  20 
minutes. 

Kornlet  Oysters. 

When  green  corn  is  out  of  season,  its  place  is  very  ac- 
ceptably filled  by  kornlet,  a  most  convenient  substitute  even 
in  the  summer,  as  it  saves  trouble  in  preparation.  Follow 
directions  given  for  all  canned  vegetables,  open  the  can  at 
least  one  hour  before  using,  and  expose  to  fresh  air,  stirring 
once  or  twice.  To  1  can  kornlet,  add  2  tablespoons  milk,  2 
eggs  beaten  light,  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  for  a  medium 
batter.  It  should  be  just  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape  when 
fried.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  good  dripping  or  failing  that, 
butter,  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  very  hot  drop,  by  spoonfuls 
to  make  them  about  the  size  of  large  fried  oysters.  When 
brown  on  one  side,  turn,  and  brown  on  the  other.  They  may 
also  be  fried  in  deep  fat. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  199 


Kornlet  Omelet. 

!■  eggs  Vi  cup  milk 

1  cup  kornlet  ]/i  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  very  light  and  add  kornlet,  milk  and 
salt.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  whipped  stiff  and  dry.  Melt 
a  tablespoon  (level)  of  butter  in  a  omelet  pan,  and  turn  in 
the  mixture.  When  brown  underneath,  put  into  very  hot 
oven  to  brown  on  top,  and  turn  upside  down  on  hot  platter. 
Pour  over  it   Bechamel  Sauce. 

Kornlet  Pudding. 

1  can  kornlet  1  cup  milk 

£  eggs,  well  beaten  A  pinch  of  soda 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  tablespoon  sugar 
Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients,  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  for  20  minutes  covered. 
Uncover  and  brown. 

Croquettes. 

Do  not  attempt  croquettes  until  you  have  thoroughly 
studied  Chapter  I.  To  egg  and  crumb  these,  to  fry  them 
properly,  to  be  able  to  serve  them  hot  and  free  from  grease, 
will  be  impossible  to  the  inexperienced  cook,  unless  she  will 
carefully  read,  and  adhere  to  directions  given  therein.  After 
she  has  mastered  the  art  of  frying  properly,  she  need  not  fear 
to  attempt  them.  Keep  mixture  as  soft  as  possible,  a  solid 
mass  is  not  a  good  croquette.  A  mould  is  necessary  if  you 
wish  the  correct  shape,  but  croquettes  taste  just  as  good  made 
in  cylindrical  shapes  and  look  as  well  too.  Use  a  broad  knife 
to  shape  them,  and  to  egg  and  crumb  them,  thus  you  ensure  a 
smooth   surface. 

Chicken  Croquettes,  I. 

\]/2  cups  minced  chicken  1  dash  nutmeg 

1  cup  White  Sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolks  2  eggs 

For  making  the  white  sauce,  use  cream  if  you  have  it,  if 
not,  rich  milk.  Add  chicken,  which  should  be  minced  very 
fine,  to  hot  sauce,  and  season  well.     Add  the  egg  yolks  and 


200  WHAT    AND     HOW 


cook  %  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  cool.  When  stiff 
roll  into  croquettes,  egg  and  crumb,  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
for  2  hours.     Then  fry  and  drain. 

Chicken  Croquettes,  II. 

This  recipe  was  given  me  by  a  woman  famous  for  her 
excellent  chicken  croquettes.  The  quantities  given  will  make 
a  large  number  of  croquettes,  just  how  many  will  depend  upon 
the  size  you  mould  them,  of  medium  size,  there  will  be  at  least 
4  dozen. 

3  pints  minced  chicken  meat  2  large  stewing  chickens  should 

1  quart  fresh  bread  crumbs     %  yield  3  pints  meat 

2  tablespoons  minced  parsley   j .  I    £  1  small  onion,  minced 
1  pint  cream  1  cup  butter 

Pepper  and  salt  2  eggs,  whites  only,  whipped 

2  cups  chicken  jelly 

Simmer  chickens  until  tender,  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water.  When  meat  leaves  the  bones,  take  from  the  fire.  Pick 
meat  carefully,  rejecting  all  gristle  and  skin.  Return  bones, 
skin,  etc.,  to  kettle  and  cook  in  the  water  in  which  chicken  was 
boiled  until  it  is  reduced  to  about  1  pint.  Strain,  and  set  away 
to  jelly.  Mince  the  chicken  very  fine,  rub  the  bread  through 
an  enamel  colander  and  mix  with  chicken.  Mash  the  chicken 
liver.  Scald  the  cream  and  butter  together,  add  pepper  and 
salt,  the  mashed  liver,  the  chicken  and  crumbs,  parsley  and 
onion.  Now,  add  the  chicken  jelly  and  cook  just  long  enough 
to  heat  all  ingredients,  not  over  3  minutes.  Cool.  When  cool 
add  the  whites  of  eggs,  mould,  egg  and  crumb,  chill  for  2  hours, 
and  fry.  It  is  better  to  prepare  the  chicken  a  day  before  making 
croquettes,  in  order  to  secure  the  jelly.  Keep  meat,  without 
mincing  in  a  covered  bowl. 

Meat  Croquettes,  I. 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  beef  }4  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolk  1  egg  Dash  cayenne 

Add  the  seasoning  to  the  meat  and  mix  with  the  sauce. 
Cool,  shape  into  small  cylinders,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb.  Fry 
in  deep  fat  according  to  directions  given  for  deep  fat  frying 
and  observe  rules  for  testing  temperatures. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  201 


Meat  Croquettes,  II. 

Mix  the  minced  meat  with  %  as  much  mashed  potato, 
season  well  and  proceed  as  above. 

Veal  Croquettes. 

i  cups  minced  veal  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce  Yolk  1  egg 

yi  teaspoon  minced  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Mince  the  cooked  veal  very  fine,  add  parsley  and  onion 
and  mix  well.  Make  White  Sauce,  according  to  recipe,  using 
veal  stock  instead  of  milk.  If  you  have  no  stock,  use  cream. 
Add  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolk,  return  to  fire,  and  stir  in  the 
veal.  Remove  from  fire,  and  cool.  When  stiff,  shape,  egg  and 
crumb,  chill  for  2  hours  and  fry. 

Lamb  Croquettes. 

Lamb  may  be  substituted  for  veal  in  preceding  recipe. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

2  cups  mashed  potato  2  eggs,  yolks  only 

1  tablespoon  butter  ^2  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  X  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Press  potato  through  ricer  or  the  colander,  add  butter, 
seasonings  and  egg  yolks  beaten.  Beat  hard,  until  all  ingre- 
dients are  well  mixed.  With  floured  hands,  roll  into  balls, 
then  with  a  knife,  on  a  board  shape  in  cylinders,  point  at  the 
ends.    Egg  and  crumb,  chill  and  fry. 

Bean  Croquettes. 

2  cups  soup  beans  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg,  beaten  light 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Pick  over,  wash  and  soak  beans  over  night  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover.  In  the  morning,  drain,  cover  with  hot  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  When  soft,  press  through  potato  ricer, 
or  rub  through  colander;  beat  to  smooth  paste  with  the  butter 
and  flour.  Add  egg  and  seasoning;  heat  through  over  hot 
water,  spread  on  a  platter  and  cool.  When  cold,  shape,  egg 
and  crumb,  chill  and  fry.  These  are  really  delicious  and  will 
prove  quite  a  surprise  when  well  made. 


202  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Cheese  Croquettes. 

1  tup  dairy  cheese,  cut  into  .'3  tablespoons  butter 

tiny  dice  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  Y,  cup  milk 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Salt,  dash  cayenne 

Y  teaspoon  mustard 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings. 
When  thick  and  smooth,  add  cheese  and  when  it  has  melted, 
the  egg  yolks  beaten.  Spread  in  shallow  pa*n  to  cool.  When 
cold,  cut  out  with  a  small  cutter,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  chill 
and  fry. 

Apple  Sauce  Croquettes. 

C  sour  apples  3  egg  yolks 

Y*  cup  sugar  %  tablespoon  butter 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  Y  tablespoon  flour 

Y  lemon  Nutmeg,  salt,  cinnamon,  dash 

of  each 

Peel  apples  and  cut  into  bits.  Put  into  double  boiler  with- 
out any  water  with  them,  and  steam  until  tender;  mash,  add 
sugar  and  seasonings  and  simmer  until  thick.  Rub  butter  and 
flour  together,  stir  into  apples  and  continue  cooking  for  3 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Now,  add  enough  of  the  mix- 
ture to  the  egg  yolks,  slightlv  beaten,  to  heat  them,  combine 
mixtures  and  spread  on  a  platter  to  cool.  When  cold,  make 
into  small  croquettes  with  2  dessert  spoons,  or  rolling  with  a 
knife;  crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  chill  and  fry.  These  are  rather 
difficult  to  shape,  but  when  carefully  done  will  repay  fully  for 
the  time  spent  in  acquiring  the  deftness  necessary  for  success. 

Oyster  Croquettes,  I. 

1  quart  oysters  Y  teaspoon  minced  onion 

Y  cup  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

1  pinch  mace  1  tablespoon  butter 

Fine  bread  crumbs 

Wash  and  drain  the  oysters,  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
strain.  Chop  very  fine.  Heat  cream,  add  seasonings  and 
oysters,  the  butter,  and  when  it  is  melted,  enough  bread  crumbs 
to  thicken  so  that  you  can  shape  them.  Cool.  Shape,  egg  and 
crumb,  chill  for  2  hours.     Frv. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  308 


Oyster  Croquettes,  II. 

1  quail  oysters  %  cup  cream 

^  tablespoons  flour  \A  cup  oyster  liquor 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yolks  2  eggs 
Salt  and  pepper                                       A  dash  of  nutmeg 

]/2  teaspoon  minced  onion 

Drain  and  wash  the  oysters.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  drain 
and  reserve  l/2  cup  of  the  liquor.  Make  a  sauce  of  butter, 
flour,  cream  and  liquor.  When  sauce  is  smooth,  add  to  the 
beaten  yolks;  return  to  fire,  add  oysters  chopped,  and  season- 
ings. Remove  at  once  from  t,he  fire,  cool,  shape,  egg  and 
crumb,  chill  as  directed  and  fry.  Croquettes  may  be  moulded 
between  2  tablespoons  dipped  in  water;  when  using  hands  dip 
constantly  into  cold  water. 


Pickled  Oysters. 

This  is  a  most  acceptable  dish  for  a  hot  night's  supper.  Of 
course,  you  must  secure  salt  oysters  as  all  others  are  out  of  the 
market  between  May  and  September. 

1  quart  oysters  2  pieces  mace 

1  teaspoon  whole  allspice  1  teaspoon  salt 

l/i  cup  water  yi  cup  vinegar 

pepper 

Heat  and  strain  through  double  cheese  cloth  the  liquor 
from  the  oysters.  Put  the  water  and  vinegar  with  the  oyster 
liquor,  salt,  pepper  and  spices  into  a  kettle  and  boil  10  min- 
utes. Add  the  oysters  and  cook  10  minutes  longer.  These 
should  be  prepared  the  day  you  wish  to  use  them;  keep  in  a 
cold  place  until  time  to  serve. 


Potato  Balls. 

Make  potato  croquette  mixture.  Have  ready  some 
spinach,  boiled,  drained  very  dry  and  minced.  With  floured 
hands,  pat  out  a  tablespoon  of  potato  mixture,  place  a  tea- 
spoon of  the  spinach  in  the  centre,  and  roll  into  a  ball.  The 
spinach  must  be  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
lemon  juice.     Proceed  as  for  croquettes. 


204  WHATANDHOW 


Hominy  Croquettes. 

1  cup  boiled  breakfast  hominy  1  egg 

]/2  tablespoon  butter,  melted  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  hominy  and  butter  and  beat  in  the  egg.  Be  careful 
to  brea^k  all  lumps  of  hominy.  Season.  Proceed  as  for  other 
croquettes.. 

Rice  Croquettes,  I. 

1  cup  rice  Yolks  4  eggs 

4  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Grated  rind  yi  lemon 

Cook  the  rice  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  rice  has 
absorbed  the  milk;  it  will  take  about  1  hour.  Remove  from 
fire,  and  beat  thoroughly;  add  the  yolks  well  beaten,  and  the 
seasonings.     Shape,  egg  and  crumb,  chill  and  fry. 

Rice  Croquettes,  II. 

Prepare  rice  as  above,  pat  out  into  flat  cakes,  put  a  ^ 
teaspoon  jelly  in  the  centre,  roll  into  a  cylinder  or  ball,  and 
proceed  as  for  croquettes. 

Rissoles,  I. 

These  little  dainties  will  quite  well  repay  for  the  small 
amount  of  trouble  involved  in  their  preparation. 

Roll  puff  paste  yi  inch  thick  and  cut  out  in  rounds,  using 
two  sizes  of  cutters.  On  the  smaller  pieces  put  2  teaspoons 
prepared  mince  of  meat,  wet  the  edges,  using  a  butter  brush, 
cover  with  larger  pieces  pinching  the  edges  together  firmly. 
Prick  in  several  places  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Chicken,  lamb,  veal  or  pork,  previously  cooked  and  finely 
minced,  may  be  used  as  filling  for  rissoles,  combining  it  with 
Thick  White  Sauce  as  for  croquettes.     Serve  with  good  sauce. 

Rissoles,  II. 

Roll  out  puff  paste  and  cut  in  rounds  with  a  large  cutter. 
Place  the  prepared  mince  on  one  half,  wet  edge  half  way 
round,  fold  over  like  a  turnover,  press  edges  together  with  a 
fork  and  fry  in  deep  fat  as  croquettes. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  205 


Stewed  Beef  Kidneys. 

Slice  3  kidneys,  remove  fat  and  membrane,  and  soak  for 
1  hour  in  salt  and  water.  This  draws  out  the  blood.  Cover 
with  cold  water,  put  on  the  fire  and  heat  gradually  to  the 
boiling  point.  Pour  off  this  water,  and  repeat  3  times.  Now, 
with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  into  tiny  slices  or  pieces,  and  add  to 
them,  1  teaspoon  minced  onion  and  the  leaves  from  1  sprig 
thyme,  powdered.  Or,  if  you  have  the  prepared  herbs  that 
come  in  boxes,  use  a  pinch  of  marjoram  and  one  of  thyme. 
Mix  these  seasonings  with  the  kidneys  and  set  aside  while 
you  make  the  sauce.  To  1  cup  White  Sauce,  add  ^ 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  %  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet 
and  a  pinch  of  mace,  or  y^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  When 
well  mixed  and  seasoned,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  %  eggs, 
add  the  kidneys  and  cook  without  boiling  for  5  minutes.  If 
the  sauce  boils  after  the  eggs  are  in  it,  it  will  curdle.  It  will  be 
safe  to  transfer  to  the  double  boiler,  or  put  sauce  pan  with 
kidneys  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  >£  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
is  an  improvement. 

Fried  Kidneys. 

3  beef's  kidneys  yi  cup  Brown  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  teaspoons  minced  parsley 

Pepper  and  salt  1  teaspoon  minced  onion 

yi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine 

Scald  kidneys  and  remove  skin.  Cut  into  slices,  taking 
out  all  membrane.  Soak  for  1  hour  in  strong  salt  and  water. 
Melt  the  butter,  cook  onion,  pepper  and  salt  in  it  2  minutes, 
browning  butter,  but  do  not  burn  the  onion.  Drain  and  wipe 
the  slices  of  kidney  dry,  dredge  with  flour,  lay  them  in  the  hot 
butter  and  fry  gently  3  minutes  on  each  side.  Do  not  cook  too 
fast  or  too  long,  it  renders  them  tough.  Remove  from  fat  with 
a  perforated  skimmer,  and  arrange  on  a  platter.  Have  the 
brown  sauce  ready,  and  season  with  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  sherry  wine,  add  parsley  and  pour  over  the  kidneys.  The 
butter  in  which  the  kidneys  were  fried  may  be  strained  into 
the  drippings  can,  or  used  to  make  the  brown  sauce,  in  which 
case  keep  kidneys  hot  while  making  the  sauce. 


206  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Lamb's  Kidneys,  I. 
Scald  and  skin  the  kidneys.  Split  and  cut  out  the  mem- 
brane. You  will  now  have  2  pieces  of  each  kidney,  about  the 
size  of  large  oysters.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  for  about  3  minutes  in  hot  bacon  fat.  Serve  with 
slices  of  bacon,  crisp  and  dry,  and  cover  with  a  good  brown 
sauce,  seasoned  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce 

Lamb's  Kidneys,  II. 

Lamb's  kidneys  may  be  stewed  by  recipe  for  beef's  kid- 
neys.    They  are  more  delicate  in  flavor. 

Crisp  Bacon. 

To  fry  bacon  and  have  it  crisp  and  light  in  color,  put  very 
thin  slices  on  the  stove  in  a  cold  frying  pan.  Heat  gradually, 
drawing  the  slices  to  the  edge  of  the  pan  when  they  seem 
crisp.  The  gradual  heating  draws  out  the  fat,  and  leaves  the 
bacon  a  light  brown  or  cream  color.  Strain  the  fat  remaining  in 
the  pan  into  a  tin  can,  keeping  it  separate  from  other  dripping. 
If  after  the  slices  have  been  removed  from  the  fat,  they  do  not 
seem  as  crisp  as  they  should,  return  them  to  the  boiling  fat  for 
a  second  or  two. 

Veal  Kidneys. 

Veal  kidneys  are  hard  to  obtain,  as  they  are  generally  de- 
manded with  the  loin  roast.  They  are  the  best  kidneys  for 
frying  or  stewing,  when  they  can  be  secured. 

Liver  Terrapin. 

1  lb.  beef's  liver,  boiled  and  Yolks  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

cold,  cut  into  tiny  dice  1  cup  Brown  Sauce 

Add  the  diced  liver  to  the  Brown  Sauce,  rub  the  egg  yolks 
through  a  sieve  or  rice  them,  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
little  of  the  sauce  and  stir  into  the  liver  mixture.  Cook  % 
minutes;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice.  White  Sauce 
may  be  used,  in  which  case  use  kitchen  bouquet  to  color  it 
a  light  brown.  Use  this  extract  carefully,  too  much  gives  a 
disagreeable  taste. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  >07 


Celery  Toast. 

Cut  celery  into  small  pieces  and  stew  in  small  quantity 
of  water  until  soft;  drain  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Mix  with 
White  Sauce,  1  cup  to  J/2  cup  celery  pulp,  season  well  with 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika,  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Have 
ready,  slices  of  crustless  bread,  toasted  and  moistened  with 
the  water  in  which  celery  was  cooked.  Put  a  layer  of  toast 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  the  celery  mixture,  re- 
peat and  pour  over  the  second  layer  the  remaining  celery 
mixture.  Bake,  covered,  for  ten  minutes,  uncover  and  brown 
slightly.    Serve  in  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Prepare  slices  of  crustless  bread  as  for  preceding  recipe, 
and  use  tomato  sauce  between  layers  and  over  the  top.  Bake, 
covered,  for  10  minutes  and  serve  in  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

2  quarts  sour  milk  2  cups  hot  water 

The  milk  should  not  only  be  sour,  but  it  must  be  thick 
and  solid.  Empty  it  into  a  jelly  bag,  pour  the  water  over  it  and 
hang  the  bag  where  it  may  drip  for  several  hours.  When  the 
whey  has  all  dripped  from  it,  turn  into  a  bowl  and  beat  it 
smooth  with  a  fork.  If  too  dry,  add  cream.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  If  milk  stands  long  enough  to  separate  from 
the  whey,  do  not  add  the  hot  water. 

Cheese  Dainties. 

14  lb.  cheese  4  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yolk  1  egg 

Dash  of  salt  Dash  of  paprika 

Cream  the  cheese  with  a  fork,  and  when  soft  and  creamy, 
work  in  the  butter,  add  the  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten  and  the 
seasonings.  Reserving  1  tablespoon  of  the  flour  to  use  in 
rolling  out,  mix  the  remainder  with  the  cheese  and  knead  with 
the  fingers  until  well  mixed.  Roll  out,  cut  into  small  rounds, 
place  each  one  on  a  flat  round  cracker;  cut,  with  a  sharp  knife, 
strips  as  thick  as  match  sticks,  and  lay  two  of  these  across  each 


208  WHATANDHOW 


round  at  right  angles  to  each  other;  press  the  ends  to  the 
cracker.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  golden  brown  color.  Use 
cheese  that  is  soft  and  not  too  mild. 

Cottage  Cheese  Pudding. 

2  cups  cottage  cheese  3  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  yi  cup  milk 

Salt  to  taste 

Beat  cottage  cheese,  sugar  and  eggs  well  together.  Add 
milk  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  into  buttered  bake 
dish,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  20  minutes  or  until  set.  Put  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
to  bake,  as  for  custards. 

Cheese  Moulds. 
Press   cottage   cheese,    moistened   with   cream,   into   small 
moulds,  turn  out  on  lettuce,  place  a  teaspoon  of  jam,  prefer- 
ably  currant,   raspberry   or   gooseberry,   on   top   of  each,   and 
serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Cheese  Pudding. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  and  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  bake  dish  with  them.  Put  on  this  a  layer  of  thin 
slices  cheese  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat.  Pour 
over  it  3  cups  of  milk  and  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  mixed  together 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  custard  sets,  about  20  minutes. 

Cheese  Fondu. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  2  cups  milk 

2  cups  cheese,  grated  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce  }4  teaspoon  salt,  pepper 

Stir  y&  teaspoon  of  soda  into  the  milk  to  keep  it  from 
curdling  and  soak  the  crumbs  in  milk  for  }4  hour.  Beat  eggs 
separately,  adding  to  the  whites  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Add  yolks,  cheese  and  seasonings;  last  fold  in  the  whites  of 
eggs  whipped  stiff.  Bake  in  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  in 
rather  quick  oven  until  delicately  browned.  Remember  that 
being  a  souffle,  this  will  fall  if  allowed  to  stand  after  baking, 
through  the  cream  of  tartar  will  help, it  to  stand. 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  209 


Cheese  Toast. 

i  cups  cheese  grated  or  chipped  1  cup  stewed  tomatoes 

1  j  teaspoon  salt  !  4  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  onion,  grated  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter  substitute  3  tablespoons  chopped  peppers 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

Cook  peppers  in  butter  until  soft,  add  tomatoes  and  trans- 
fer to  double  boiler,  add  cheese,  crumbs  and  seasonings,  beat 
until  smooth  and  thick  and  serve  on  bread  cut  thin  and  toasted. 


Cheese  Souffle. 

1  tablespoon  butter  ]/i  cup  milk 

IK  tablespoons  flour  3  eggs 

X  cup  cheese,  grated  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk,  according  to 
directions  for  White  Sauce,  add  seasoning.  Beat  eggs  separ- 
ately. Remove  sauce  from  fire,  stir  in  the  cheese  and  when 
slightly  cooled,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  When  mixture  is 
quite  cool,  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  whipped  until  dry  and 
stiff.  Pour  into  buttered  bake  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven.  Serve  at  once,  it  will  fall  if  allowed  to  stand.  The 
dish  should  not  be  too  full,  as  souffles  increase  very  much  while 
baking. 

Cheese  Cream. 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce  as  for  croquettes.  Stir  into  this, 
when  cool,  enough  grated  cheese  to  flavor  it.  Add  a  dash  or 
two  of  paprika,  and  salt  to  taste.  The  quantity  of  cheese  will 
depend  upon  the  quality  of  the  cheese,  but  there  should  be 
enough  to  give  a  very  decided  taste  of  cheese  to  the  sauce. 
This  cream  may  be  used  in  Queen  Fritters,  or  served  hot  over 
toast. 

FRITTERS  AND  PANCAKES. 

Before  attempting  fritters,  master  the  art  of  deep  fat  fry- 
ing as  described  in  Chapter  I.  No  grease  must  mar  the  fritter, 
the  fruit  must  be  thoroughly  cooked  and  the  batter  of  the 
right  consistency.  With  these  requisites,  and  the  rules  of 
testing  fat   for   frying,   the   novice   may   succeed   perfectly    in 


210  WHATANDHOW 


making  these  delicacies  so  that  they  shall  be  wholesome  and 
digestible. 

Serve  fritters  always,  upon  either  a  folded  napkin,  or  a 
tissue  paper  mat,  fringed  at  the  ends.  The  latter  is  preferable, 
as  it  does  not  add  to  the  laundry  work. 

Batter  for  Fruit  Fritters. 

1  cup  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  %  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  1  egg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually  and  egg 
well  beaten. 

Apple  Fritters,  I. 

Peel  and  cut  2  apples  into  tiny  slices,  stir  into  the  batter 
and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat  and  fry.  Remove  with  a 
skimmer,  drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and  serve  sprinkled  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Apple  Fritters,  II. 

Cut  apples  into  rings  (after  peeling  and  coring),  the  rings 
to  be  Yi  inch  thick  and  cut  cross  wise  of  the  apple.  Dip  each 
slice  into  the  batter  until  well  coated  with  it,  and  drop  into 
hot  fat  to  fry.  A  skewer  is  useful  in  transferring  the  slices 
from  batter  to  fat  and  out  again  to  the  paper. 

Banana  Fritters. 

Remove  skins,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  and  each  half  cross- 
wise into  2  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  lemon 
juice;  cover  and  set  aside  K"  hour.  Dip  into  batter,  and  fry 
as  directed. 

Batter  a  la  Creole. 

The  following  recipe  taken  from  the  "Picayune  Cook 
Book"  is  worthy  of  a  trial.  It  is  more  elaborate  but  quite  as 
easy  to  use: 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  brandy,  or  sherry, 

2  eggs  or  lemon  juice 

Cold  water  1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

yi  teaspoon  salt 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  211 


Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  and  add  the  flour,  beating  very 
light;  add  the  melted  butter  and  the  brandy,  amd  thin  with 
cold  water  to  the  consistency  of  a  thick  starch.  Add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  dip  the  fruit  into  this, 
immersing  well.  The  batter  must  be  thick  enough  to  coat  the 
fruit,  but  not  so  thick  as  to  make  it  tough.  Fry  as  directed  in 
preceding  recipes. 

Peaches. 

May  be  treated  as  the  apples,  sliced  and  mixed  with  the 
batter,  or  cut  in  half,  covered  with  batter  and  fried  in  deep  fat. 

Queen  Fritters. 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  flour,  sifted 

yi  cup  boiling  water  2  eggs 

Marmalade 

Put  butter  in  small  saucepan  and  add  water.  As  soon  as 
it  reaches  boiling  point,  add  flour  and  stir  until  mixture  leaves 
side  of  the  pan,  cleaving  to  the  spoon.  Remove  from  fire  and 
add  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time,  beating  mixture  thoroughly 
after  adding  each  egg.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and 
fry  until  well  puffed  up  and  brown.  Drain;  make  an  opening 
and  fill  with  marmalade  or  preserve.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar.  These  are  attractive  made  quite  small  and  may  be 
filled  with  salad  or  cheese  cream.    See  page  209. 

Clam  Fritters. 

1  pint  clams  1>£  cups  flour 

i  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

]A,  cup  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Drain  clams,  wash,  and  put  through  meat  chopper,  coarse 
cutter.  Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  milk,  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder,  clams  and  seasoning.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat 
and  fry.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve  on  a  paper  mat.  All  fritters 
must  have  either  a  napkin  or  paper  mat  under  them  to  drain 
off  the  fat. 

Clam  fritters  may  be  cooked  on  a  griddle  as  cakes,  making 
them  rather  small.     They  are  more  delicate  than  when  fried. 


212  WHATANDHOW 


Kornlet  Fritters. 

1  can  kornlet.  Add  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  beaten,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  salt  to  taste,  and  enough  flour  for  thin 
batter.    Fry  as  griddle  cakes. 

Pancakes. 

3  cups  flour  4  eggs 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light  in  cake  mixer  if  you  have  one, 
add  milk.  Sift  the  flour  and  mix  with  the  eggs  and  milk.  If 
in  cake  mixer,  put  flour  into  milk,  if  beating  by  hand,  add  milk 
to  flour.  Beat  hard  for  3  minutes  and  add  butter.  Put  2  large 
spoonfuls  into  a  frying  pan,  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown 
on  the  other.  Put  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  keep  hot 
while  baking  the  others.  If  a  griddle  is  used,  two  may  be  baked 
at  one  time.  Pile  on  a  plate,  with  sugar  between.  This  quan- 
tity makes  12  pancakes. 

Jelly  Pancakes. 

Make  a  batter  of  5  eggs,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  3 
cups  milk,  and  4  cups  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Fry  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe,  spread  with 
jelly,  roll  up,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Club  Sandwich,  I. 

Toast  3  slices  bread  ^  mch  thick  and  5  inches  square. 
Remove  crust  before  toasting.  Spread  1  slice  with  Mayonnaise 
and  minced  parsley  mixed  thoroughly  together,  and  seasoned 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  2  drops  onion  juice  to  each 
tablespoon  of  Mayonnaise.  Lay  over  this,  cold  boiled  chicken 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  cover  with  2  slices  of  well  crisped 
bacon.  Put  over  this  a  layer  of  shredded  lettuce  over  which 
spread  Sauce  Tartare,  made  by  adding  to  some  of  the  Mayon- 
naise, pickles  chopped  very  fine.  Butter  the  second  slice  of 
toast  and  press  it  firmly  down  on  the  sandwich.  Now  put 
on  a  layer  of  shredded  lettuce,  cover  with  Mayonnaise  and  a 
layer  of  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs,  over  which  arrange  thin  slices 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  213 


of  pimolas  or  stuffed  olives.  On  top  of  this  put  the  third  sliee 
of  toast  spread  with  Mayonnaise,  and  press  it  firmly  down. 
With  a  sharp  knife  cut  across  the  sandwich  diagonally 
which  will  make  two  triangles,  put  these  together  to  make 
the  square  again.     Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Club  Sandwich,  II. 

For  this,  you  will  need  2  slices  of  toast,  made  according 
to  recipe  above.  Butter  one  of  these,  and  cover  with  shredded 
lettuce.  Spread  over  this  some  Mayonnaise  and  put  on  a 
layer  of  chicken  in  small  pieces;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Next,  put  2  slices  of  well  crisped  bacon  and  a  lettuce  leaf  spread 
with  Mayonnaise.  Sprinkle  this  with  hard  boiled  egg  chopped 
very  small,  and  cover  with  sliced  pimolas.  Butter  the  second 
piece  of  toast  and  press  well  down  on  top  the  sandwich.  Cut 
as  directed  in  preceding  recipe. 

Manhattan  Club  Sandwich. 

2  slices  of  toast  made  as  directed  for  Club  Sandwich  I. 
Butter  one  of  these,  put  a  layer  of  chicken  and  2  slices  of 
crisped  bacon  and  cover  with  a  lettuce  leaf.  Spread  this  with 
Mayonnaise,  lay  on  it  a  slice  of  tomato,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  with  sliced  olives  or  pimolas.  Spread  the 
second  piece  of  toast  with  the  Mayonnaise  and  press  it  well 
down   upon  the  sandwich.      Cut  into  triangles  as  directed. 

Sweetbreads. 

A  sweetbread  is  in  two  parts,  connected  by  tubing  and 
membranes.  The  round  compact  part  is  the  heart  sweetbread, 
the  other  and  least  desirable,  is  the  throat  sweetbread.  Miss 
Farmar  utters  a  note  of  warning  against  the  possibility  of  ob- 
taining two  throat  sweetbreads  from  the  market,  they  are  dis- 
connected before  being  offered  for  sale,  and  the  buyer  should 
have,  in  a  pair,  one  of  each. 

Sweetbreads  should  be  parboiled  as  soon  as  received  from 
the  market.  Wash  thoroughly,  boil  slowly  for  20  minutes, 
drain   and   plunge   into    very   cold   water.    This   blanches   and 


214  WHATANDHOW 


solidifies  them.  When  cold,  put  near  ice  or  in  a  cold  place 
until  needed  for  cooking.  They  need  this  preliminary  par- 
boiling before  using  in  the  following  recipes. 

Baked  Sweetbreads. 

Parboil  2  pairs  of  sweetbreads,  according  to  directions 
given  above.  Cut  fat  salt  pork  into  narrow  strips,  and  lard 
each  sweetbread  with  4  strips.  To  do  this,  take  a  sharp  pointed 
knife  and  make  a  hole  through  the  sweetbread,  push  one  of 
the  strips  through  this  hole,  allowing  it  to  project  yi  inch 
each  side.  Dissolve  ]/2  teaspoon  beef  extract  in  1  cup  hot  water, 
or  use  1  cup  of  soup  stock,  lay  the  sweetbreads  in  a  baking 
pan  just  large  enough  to  hold  them,  pour  the  stock  over  them 
and  bake,  covered,  for  20  minutes.  Uncover,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  and  allow  them  to  brown,  cooking  not  more 
than  5  minutes  more.  Remove  to  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  around  them  the  sauce,  which  should 
be  thickened  slightly,  and  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and 
kitchen  bouquet. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads. 

Parboil  and  blanch  1  pair  sweetbreads.  Cut  into  neat 
pieces  and  cook  for  o  minutes  in  a  sauce  made  as  follows:  Melt 
in  a  saucepan  1  tablespoon  butter,  rub  into  it  \yi  tablespoons 
flour  and  add  1  cup  of  cream.  When  thick  and  smooth,  add 
the  sweetbreads,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  5  minutes 
and  serve  on  toast,  or  in  paper  boxes.  Sherry  may  be  used  as 
a  flavoring  if  desired. 

Sweetbread  Patties. 

Make  pastry  cups  or  purchase  the  patties  if  more  con- 
venient. Use  equal  quantities  of  cold  boiled  chicken  and 
sweetbreads  cut  into  blocks.  Follow  directions  in  preceding 
recipe.  The  pastry  cups  are  made  by  baking  puff  paste  over 
inverted  muffin  tins. 

Sweetbread  Cutlets. 

Parboil  and  blanch  1  pair  of  sweetbreads;  cut  into  %  inch 
slices  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Crumb,  egg  and  crumb 


■\ 


LUNCHEON     AND     SUPPER  Jl> 


and  brown  in  a  little  butter.  Serve  with  Mushroom,  Bechamel, 
or  Brown  Sauce.  If  the  latter  be  used,  add  }4  cup  stewed  and 
strained  tomato  to  the  sauce. 

Cheese  Balls. 

IK  cups  grated  cheese,  sharp  1  tablespoon  flour 

American  1  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne  Whites  3  eggs,  whipped  dry 

Mix   all  ingredients,   shape  into  balls,   roll  in  fine  bread 
crumb  and  fry  as  croquettes.     A  fine  accompaniment  to  salads 


216  WHAT    AND    HOW 


CHAPTER  XVII 


EGGS. 

An  egg  contains  four  of  the  five  food  principles,  the  one 
lacking  being  carbohydrates,  or  the  starch  and  sugar.  Thus 
it  becomes  a  perfect  meal  eaten  with  bread,  potatoes  or  cereals. 
To  select  eggs,  choose  those  with  shells  slightly  rough  whose 
contents  will  not  shake.  An  infallible  test  is  to  drop  them  into 
water.  A  fresh  egg  will  sink  at  once,  an  egg  not  strictly  fresh, 
though  not  necessarily  unfit  for  use,  will  assume  an  upright  posi- 
tion. The  small  air  cell  in  the  larger  end  of  the  egg  increases, 
in  size  as  the  egg  grows  older,  and  this  causes  the  egg  to  float 
with  the  small  end  down.  This  test  should  be  applied  in  case 
of  doubt,  especially  if  the  egg  is  to  be  boiled. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Drop  egg  into  boiling  water,  and  cover  until  the  water 
boils  again,  cook  three  minutes  for  soft  boiled,  four  minutes 
for  medium,  and  twenty  minutes  for  hard  boiled.  At  no  time 
should  the  water  boil  hard. 


Coddled  Eggs. 

Put  two  eggs  into  a  hot  bowl,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cover  closely  for  five  or  six  minutes  off  the  fire.  Prepared 
in  this  way  the  whites  and  yolks  are  of  a  creamy  consistency, 
and  more  easily  digested.  The  best  way  to  prepare  an  egg 
for  an  invalid  or  baby. 

Poached  Egg. 

Have  a  sauce  pan  with  boiling  water.  Butter  muffin 
rings  and  put  into  water.  Carefully  break  an  egg  into  each 
muffin  ring.  The  water  should  cover  the  egg.  When  the 
egg  is  firm,  slip  the  ring  off,  take  up  the  egg  with  a  skimmer 
and  lay  on  a  circular  piece  of  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper. 


EGGS  811 


Fried  Eggs  with  Bacon. 
Lay  6  thin  slices  bacon  in  a  cold  frying  pan,  beat  grad- 
ually and  cook  slowly,  until  the  bacon  is  crisp  but  not  brown- 
ed too  much.  Take  4  muffin  rings,  and  grease  well  with  the 
bacon  fat,  and  heat  very  hot  in  the  pan.  If  not  sufficient  fat 
in  the  pan,  add  a  little  more.  Drop  an  egg  into  each  muffin 
ring,  and  fry.  Turn,  if  desired,  after  removing  the  ring.  Serve 
on  the  dish  with  bacon. 

Shirred  Eggs. 

Butter  ramekins  and  drop  an  egg  into  each  one.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  white 
is  firm.  A  pleasant  change  from  the  ordinary  shirred  egg 
may  be  had  by  sprinkling  egg  with  buttered  crumbs  and  a 
little  grated  cheese. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Beat  eggs  just  long  enough  to  break  yolks;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  bacon  dripping  in  an 
omelet  pan,  and  stir  eggs  in  this  with  a  fork  until  cooked. 
If  allowed  to  cook  too  long  they  will  be  tough;  the  last  min- 
ute of  stirring  may  be  done  off  the  fire,  as  the  heat  of  the  pan 
will  be  sufficient.  Scrambled  eggs  may  be  served  with  toast, 
and  the  toast  may  be  buttered,  or  spread  with  Anchovy  paste. 
Avoid  monotony  by  using  variety. 

Egg  in  a  Nest. 

Butter  a  ramekin.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  dash 
of  salt  until  stiff  and  dry.  Pile  lightly  in  the  ramekin,  make 
a  slight  depression  in  the  middle  and  drop  into  it  the  unbeaten 
yolk.  Sprinkle  yolk  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  in  oven 
until  the  meringue  is  a  golden  brown.  This  may  be  made 
on  a  buttered  saucer,  and  slipped  off  when  cooked,  to  a  round 
of  buttered  toast,  and  may  also  be  served  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Eggs  a  la  Martin. 

Make  thick  cream  sauce,  with  \}4  tablespoons  butter,  \]4 
tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  cream.     Butter  ramekins  and  put  into 


218  WHAT    AND     HOW 


each  one  2  tablespoons  sauce.  Drop  on  this  2  eggs,  cover 
thickly  with  grated  cheese,  cover  with  sauce,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  10  minutes  or  until  the  egg  is  well  set.  Use  milk 
if  you  have  not  cream. 

Eggs  a  la  Newburg. 

Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, and  1  cup  rich  milk.  (Follow  directions  for  making 
White  Sauce.)  Add  to  this  6  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  into  neat 
pieces,  and  let  these  cook  until  hot  through.  Stir  in  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  %  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  and  serve 
on  toast  or  crackers. 

Holland  Eggs 

are  made  according  to  directions  for  eggs  a  la  Martin,  using 
Mushroom  Sauce  instead  of  Cream  Sauce,  and  omitting  cheese. 
Use  small  button  mushrooms  in  the  sauce,  or  small  pieces  of 
mushrooms. 

Luncheon  Eggs. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  and  let  it  brown,  add  1  table- 
spoon flour,  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  1  cup  tomatoes  stew- 
ed, %  cup  canned  mushrooms,  sliced,  ^  cup  minced  ham  or 
chicken.  Season  with  onion  juice,  paprika  and  kitchen  bou- 
quet. Simmer  five  or  ten  minutes,  then  stir  in  4  beaten  eggs. 
Stir  carefully  until  eggs  are  set,  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 
This  can  be  made  in  chafing  dish. 

Mince  of  Ham  with  Eggs. 

Brown  1  tablespoon  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  1  tablespoon 
flour,  when  Smooth  pour  on  1  cup  hot  water  and  cook  until 
you  have  a  thick  sauce;  color  with  kitchen  bouquet.  Season 
with  1  teaspoon  tomato  catsup,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  to  this  1  cup  of  minced  ham,  toss  and  stir 
until  smoking  hot.  Pour  over  slices  of  toast,  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter. Put  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice  of  toast  and  serve.  Kid- 
neys are  delicious  served  in  this  way. 


EGGS  219 


Club  Eggs. 

(>  bard  boiled  eggs  yi  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquel 

1  cup  White  Sauce  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  cup  tomatoes,  stewed  1  tablespoon  chopped  peppers 

If  tomatoes  are  "left  overs"  they  will  probably  be  thick- 
ened and  seasoned.  If  not,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  together,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  They  should 
be  of  the  same  consistency  as  the  white  sauce.  Cook  the  pep- 
pers with  the  white  sauce,  adding  them  to  the  butter  while 
it  is  melting,  but  do  not  let  them  brown.  When  the  sauce 
is  made,  add  tomato  and  seasoning.  Chop  eggs  very  fine,  using 
a  silver  knife.  Stir  into  the  sauce  and  serve  over  toast.  The 
peppers  may  be  omitted  without  spoiling  the  dish.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Spanish  Eggs. 

1  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  well  1  tablespoon  butter 

seasoned  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  onion,  chopped  fine  2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 

Brown  onion  in  butter,  add  tomatoes  and  Worcestershire 
sauce.  When  very  hot,  break  in  the  eggs  whole  on  top  of 
tomatoes,  and  when  the  whites  are  set,  beat  all  together  very 
lightly.     Serve  on  toast. 

Tomato  Eggs. 

Four  hard  boiled  eggs.  Cut  in  half  lengthwise,  and  re- 
move yolks.  Work  yolks  smooth  with  silver  fork,  mix  with 
1  teaspoon  Anchovy  paste,  refill  eggs.  Place  cut  side  down 
on  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  cover  completely  with  Tomato 
Sauce.  Sprinkle  over  top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  and 
cook  in  hot  oven  10  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Dropped  Egg— White  Sauce. 

Heat  small  omelet  pan,  place  on  asbestos  mat,  set  on 
back  of  stove,  or  over  simmerer  of  a  gas  stove,  turned  low. 
Butter  the  bottom  and  sides,  and  turn  in  $4  of  a  cup  of  milk. 
When  milk  is  very  hot,  slip  in  1  egg  opened  on  a  saucer,  and 
cover.  When  cooked  on  one  side  turn  over,  cover  and  cook 
until  the  other  side  is  done.     Remove  egg  with  a  skimmer  to 


220  WHAT     AND     HOW 


hot  plate;  thicken  milk  with  Y/2  level  tablespoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  rubbed  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pour  over 
the  egg.  This  is  an  individual  serve  suitable  for  an  invalid's 
tray. 

Baked  Souffle  of  Eggs. 

Scald  1  cup  milk;  beat  yolks  of  6  eggs  until  light  and 
creamy,  and  whites  until  stiff  and  dry.  Season  the  milk  with 
Vz  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  butter,  and 
add  gradually  to  the  yolks,  fold  in  the  whites.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  baking  pan  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  minutes 
or  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  immediately  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  was  baked.  If  you  open  the  oven  door  to  note  pro- 
gress, be  very  careful  not  to  jar  the  stove  when  closing  it,  and 
do  not  move  the  dish  until  it  is  ready  to  come  from  the  oven, 
or  the  souffle  will  fall  and  be  spoiled. 

Eggs  en  Surprise. 
Bake  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and  well  shaped.  When 
done,  cut  a  slice  from  the  side  and  remove  part  of  the  potato; 
drop  a  raw  egg  into  the  cavity  and  cover  with  a  puree  of  minced 
ham,  which  is  made  by  mixing  ham  minced  very  fine,  with 
some  good  sauce,  preferably  Bechamel.  Return  to  the  oven 
until  the  egg  is  well  set,  and  serve  with  a  spoonful  of  Bechamel 
sauce  on  top  of  the  ham. 

Daffodils. 

Chop  the  whites  of  6  hard  boiled  eggs  fine.  Have  ready 
1  cup  of  White  Sauce,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  onion 
juice.  Mix  the  whites  with  this,  and  keep  hot  over  boiling 
water.  Have  ready  eight  rounds  of  toast,  buttered  and  slightly 
moistened  with  gravy,  chicken,  veal  or  turkey.  Arrange  on 
a  hot  platter  and  cover  each  round  with  the  white  mixture, 
flattening  it  on  top.  Rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve,  reducing 
them  to  a  yellow  powder,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
put  a  spoonful  in  the  centre  of  each  white  round. — Marion 
Harland. 


EGGS  281 


Baked  Eggs. 

('lit  a  slice  from  stem  end  of  tomato;  with  a  spoon  re- 
move most  of  the  pulp,  slip  in  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  egg  is  set. 

To  butter  the  crumbs,  melt  1  tablespoon  butter  and  stir 
the  crumbs  in  until  well  coated  with  the  butter.  Tomato 
scooped  from  the  inside  can  be  used  for  soup  or  tomato  sauce. 

Omelets. 

There  are  two  ways  of  making  omelets,  the  French  and 
American;  the  choice  is  between  a  spongy  consistency  and 
a  more  solid  one.  For  a  sweet  omelet,  the  American  way  is 
employed,  while  for  the  numerous  filled  omelets,  the  French 
is  preferred.  To  make  a  French  omelet,  break  the  eggs  into 
a  bowl  and  with  a  fork  beat  only  long  enough  to  break  the 
yolks  and  mix  them  with  the  whites.  Water  or  cream  may 
be  added  in  the  proportion  of  ^  tablespoon  to  each  egg.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Use  a  pan  which  comes  for  the 
purpose  in  sizes  known  as  "one  egg  omelet  pan"  or  "two  egg," 
and  so  on  to  a  "six  egg"  pan.  It  is  wise  to  have  at  least  four 
of  these  pans;  they  are  inexpensive  and  useful  in  many  ways. 
Do  not  attempt  to  make  a  small  omelet  in  a  large  pan,  the  egg 
should  be  at  least  1  inch  deep.  Put  into  the  pan,  which  should 
be  hot,  about  1  teaspoon  of  butter  and  melt  it  before  turning  in 
the  egg.  As  the  omelet  begins  to  set,  with  a  spatula  or  broad 
bladed  knife,  lift  the  edge  and  tilt  the  pan  so  that  the  uncooked 
egg  on  top  will  run  underneath  and  repeat  this  until  the  whole 
is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Place  the  filling  on  one  side,  turn 
the  other  side  over  on  it  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

Mushroom  Omelet. 

One  cup  mushrooms,  broken  in  small  pieces,  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  }4  tablespoon  butter.  Cover  closely  and  sim- 
mer gently  until  mushrooms  are  tender.  (Test  with  a  wooden 
toothpick.)  Add  1  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  thicken  with  yi 
tablespoon  butter  and  Yi  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  together. 
Add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper,  and  proceed 
according  to  directions  given  above,  using  4  eggs.  This  omelet 
can  be  made  with  oysters  instead  of  mushrooms. 


222  WHATANDHOW 


Spanish  Omelet. 

Spanish  omelet  can  be  made  according  to  directions  for 
tomato  omelet,  using 

Spanish  Sauce. 

^3  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  yi  of  an  onion, 
chopped,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  pimento 
cut  small,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter,  until 
a  golden  brown,  add  flour,  tomatoes,  and  1  cup  water.  Cook 
ten  minutes,  and  strain.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Bread  Omelet. 

4  eggs  %  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

]4.  cup  milk  ]/i  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  15  minutes;  beat  eggs  separately. 
To  the  yolks,  add  crumbs  and  seasoning,  and  fold  in  the  whites. 
Grease  a  small  omelet  pan,  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Cook  until 
brown  underneath,  slip  under  the  flame  of  the  gas  oven  for  a 
minute  or  so  to  brown  on  top,  or  put  in  the  hottest  part  of 
your  coal  range  oven.  The  object  is  to  brown  quickly  without 
cooking  long  enough  to  toughen  the  omelet.  Turn  out  on  a  hot 
platter,  and  cover  with 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

Scald  \l/2  cups  milk  with  1  slice  onion,  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
sprig  of  parsley,  and  3  peppercorns.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  sauce  pan.  Stir  in  1  tablespoon  flour,  add  the  milk  strain- 
ed, and  stir  until  a  smooth  sauce.  Beat  yolk  of  1  egg,  add  hot 
sauce  gradually,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Omelet  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Break  4  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  beat  only  long  enough  to 
break  the  yolks.  Have  ready  and  hot  1  cup  Tomato  Sauce, 
melt  1  teaspoon  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  turn  in  the  eggs. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  As  it  sets  around  the 
edges,  lift  with  a  broad  bladed  knife,  and  allow  the  uncooked 
part  on  top  to  run  underneath.    When  of  a  creamy  consistency, 


E  G  G  S  228 


put  ^'tablespoons  of  sauce  on  one  half,  and  turn  the  other  half 
over  it.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  remainder  of  sauce 
around    it. 

Omelet— Minced  Ham. 

Make  a  French  omelet,  when  ready  to  double  over  sprinkle 
with  minced  ham  and  fold. 

Omelet  with  Fried  Onion. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  bacon  dripping  or  butter,  slice  2  large 
or  3  smaller  onions,  toss  in  the  hot  fat  until  tender,  but  do 
not  allow  them  to  brown  too  much.  Remove  from  the  pan 
and  keep  warm  while  you  make  a  French  omelet,  in  the  pan 
where  you  have  just  fried  the  onion.  Put  part  of  the  fried 
onion  in  the  omelet  when  you  fold  it,  and  lay  the  rest  on  the 
dish  with  it. 

Omelet  with  Bacon. 

Fry  b'  pieces  of  bacon,  or  as  many  as  you  wish,  drain  off 
some  of  the  fat,  and  make  a  French  omelet  in  the  same  pan. 
Serve  on  platter  with  bacon  arranged  at  one  side. 

Parsley  Omelet. 

To  a  4  egg  omelet,  allow  2  teaspoons  minced  parsley, 
and  stir  in  before  cooking  the  omelet. 

Kidney  Omelet. 

Scald  and  skin  4  lamb's  kidneys;  put  on  fire  in  cold  water 
to  cover.  When  water  reaches  boiling  point,  pour  off  and 
cover  again  with  cold  water;  bring  to  boiling  point  again  and 
repeat  twice.  By  this  time  the  kidneys  will  be  cooked  through. 
Cut  into  tiny  thin  slices  and  mix  with  Brown  Sauce,  well  sea- 
soned. Make  an  omelet,  and  when  it  is  done  put  a  spoonful  of 
the  kidney  mixture  in  the  middle  of  it,  fold  and  serve  on  hot 
platter  with  the  remainder  of  the  kidney  poured  around  it. 
This  is  ah  excellent  way  to  use  kidney,  stewed  or  devilled,  left 
over  from  another  meal. 


224  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Omelet  au  Fines  Herbes. 

Parsley  and  onion  minced;  thyme  and  sweet  marjoram 
powdered;  mix  all  together  and  sprinkle  in  the  omelet  before 
cooking. 

Oyster  Omelet. 

1  cup  White  Sauce  x/i  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet 

1  pint  oysters  Salt  and  pepper 

6  eggs 

Wash  and  drain  the  oysters.  Heat  over  the  fire  until 
they  ruffle,  drain.  Use  this  liquor  in  the  white  sauce,  adding 
enough  milk  to  make  1  cup.  Season  the  sauce,  drop  in  the 
oysters  to  heat  thoroughly.  Make  a  French  omelet,  fold  a 
few  of  the  oysters  inside  and  pour  the  rest  around  it. 

AMERICAN  OMELETS. 

Or  omelets  made  by  beating  the  eggs  separately,  are  more 
difficult  to  make  successfully  than  the  French  omelets,  but 
practice  makes  perfect,  and  one  may  achieve  anything  if  only 
she  tries  often  enough.  Beat  yolks  until  light,  whip  whites 
stiff  and  dry,  and  mix  carefully  together  without  further  beat- 
ing; season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  2  teaspoons  butter  in 
an  omelet  pain  of  suitable  size  for  the  number  of  eggs  used, 
pour  in  the  omelet  and  cook  over  a  moderately  hot  fire  until  a 
crust  forms  underneath  and  the  omelet  seems  cooked  about 
half  way  through.  Now  put  into  the  hottest  part  of  the  oven, 
or  in  a  gas  stove,  under  the  oven  flame,  just  long  enough  to 
set  the  egg  on  the  top,  remove  from  the  fire,  double  over,  and 
serve  at  once,  as  it  falls  if  allowed  to  stand.  It  may  be  turned 
out  without  folding  if  desired.  Vary  by  using  minced  parsley, 
the  herb  mixture,  or  if  a  sweet  omelet  is  desired,  spread  with 
marmalade  or  jelly  before  folding.  Do  not  cook  too  long,  as 
long  cooking  toughens  the  omelet. 


225 


CHAPTER  XVIII 


CEREALS. 


In  the  cooking  of  cereals,  follow  directions  upon  each 
package  as  to  proper  proportions  of  water  and  cereal,  but  even 
those  varieties  that  are  said  to  require  but  a  few  minutes  boil- 
ing are  rendered  more  wholesome  and  palatable  by  longer 
cooking.  Marion  Harland  says,  oatmeal  cooked  four  hours  is 
good,  eight  hours  are  better,  twenty-four  hours  are  "best.'* 
Soaking  is  indispensible,  and  she  advises  putting  oatmeal  on 
the  stove  over  night,  where  it  will  keep  warm,  adding  boiling 
water  and  salt  in  the  morning  and  cooking  in  a  double  boiler 
as  long  as  you  can.  Since  fireless  cookers  have  become  known 
there  is  no  place  or  plan  for  cooking  cereals  to  equal  them. 
Put  the  cereal,  with  its  proper  quantity  of  water  as  given  on 
the  box,  and  salt  to  taste,  on  the  fire  where  it  may  boil  for  10 
minutes;  transfer  without  delay  to  the  fireless  cooker  and  in 
the  morning  it  will  be  found  ready  for  use.  Before  putting 
into  the  cooker,  lift  the  lid,  stir  contents  thoroughly,  replace 
lid,  and  when  you  are  sure  that  it  is  boiling  again,  remove  to 
the  cooker.  If  kettle  does  not  fill  the  space  in  the  cooker 
crumple  up  newspaper  to  fill  the  space  between  kettle  and  lid 
of  cooker,  there  must  be  no  air  space  either  on  top  or  at  sides 
of  kettle.  If  the  oatmeal  is  not  hot  enough  to  serve,  put  kettle 
into  hot  water  on  the  stove.  I  wish  it  were  in  my  power  to 
convince  mothers  that  children  can  be  taught  to  eat  their 
cereal  without  sugar.  If  a  child  never  acquires  the  taste,  there 
is  no  trouble  in  training  him  to  eat  his  bread  and  milk  or  por- 
ridge without  it,  and  while  a  small  amount  of  sugar  may  be 
useful  in  food,  it  creates  acidity  when  given  in  such  quan- 
tities as  are  required  to  sweeten  cereals.  Also  I  would  like 
here,  to  enter  a  protest  against  the  substitution  of  cereals  for 
the  bowl  of  bread  and  milk,  especially  for  the  evening  meal. 
Some  one  has  called  it  "a  hot  poultice  over  the  coating  of  the 
stomach,"  and  I  feel  quite  well  convinced  that  this  is  a  per- 
fectly good  description  of  the  effect  of  too  much  cereals  for 
children. 


226  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Many  cereals  that  come  to  us  in  packages  partly  cooked, 
and  all  of  those  prepared  for  use  without  further  cooking,  are 
demineralized  in  the  process  and  have  lost  their  chief  nutriiive 
values.  Their  food  value  is  limited  to  the  milk  or  cream  used 
with  them.  The  cereals  prepared  by  the  Great  Valley  Mills  at 
Paoli,  Pa.,  contain  all  the  elements  which  an  all-wise  Providence 
put  into  them  for  the  growth  and  health  of  the  body — they 
are  simply  crushed  or  ground  between  two  mill  stones  in  the 
very  old  fashioned  way  that  has  made  the  water  ground  meal  of 
Virginia  famous.  These  cereals  and  flours  are  not  for  sale  in 
the  stores,  but  come  direct  to  the  consumer  by  parcel  post. 
A  postal  card  mailed  to  address  given  above  will  bring  full 
information. 

Oatmeal  builds  up  muscle,  bone  and  brain,  is  heating  to 
the  blood  and  therefore  is  a  winter  cereal.  Wheat  prepara- 
tions are  best  adapted  for  summer  use,  while  hominy  and  corn 
meal  are  gently  laxative  and  therefore  useful  for  an  occasional 
change  either  in  summer  or  winter.  Rice  is  nourishing  and 
easily  digested  and  becomes  a  perfect  food  when  cooked  in 
milk,  easily  accomplished  in  a  double  boiler. 

Hominy  Grits. 

In  the  South,  it  is  always  ''grits,"  North  it  is  known  as 
breakfast  hominy.  The  directions  upon  the  box  may  be  fol- 
lowed as  given. 

For  a  luncheon  dish,  this  is  improved  by  pouring  off  the 
water  when  it  is  nearly  done,  filling  up  with  milk  instead,  and 
cooking  until  milk  is  absorbed.  When  cold,  it  is  a  most  accept- 
able addition  to  a  menu.  Slice,  dip  in  corn  meal  and  fry  in  very 
hot  Crisco  or  bacon  fat.  Grease  a  baking  powder  can  and  pack 
the  hominy  into  it  while  hot.  When  turned  out  you  can  cut 
into  neat  round  slices. 

Brewis. 

An  old  fashioned  dish,  good  for  the  children's  supper.  Dry 
slices  of  stale  bread  in  the  oven  and  put  through  the  meat 
chopper,  using  the  coarse  cutter.     To  1   cup  of  these  crumbs, 


CEREALS  %%1 


allow  2  cups  scalded  milk,  seasoned  with  salt.  Pour  over  the 
crumbs,  add  a  little  butter  and  let  it  stand,  covered  closely, 
for  a  few  moments  before  serving. 

Macaroni. 

The  elbow  macaroni  is  the  most  convenient  to  use,  as  it 
is  already  in  pieces  which  are  practically  uniform  in  size.  Wash 
and  boil  in  salted  water  yi  hour.  Drain  in  colander; 
rinse  with  cold  water;  this  washes  the  paste  from  the  outside 
of  the  pieces  and  prevents  them  from  sticking  together. 

Spaghetti  is  much  smaller  than  macaroni,  but  requires  the 
same  treatment.  These  directions  will  not  be  repeated  in  the 
recipes  to  follow. 

Boiled  Macaroni. 

Serve  macaroni,  boiled  according  to  directions,  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  to  season;  add  a  little  cream  as  you  reheat 
it,  if  desired.    Or,  pour  over  it,  1  cup  of  White  Sauce. 

Macaroni,  With  Cheese. 

Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  boiled  macaroni  after  pouring 
the  white  sauce  over  it. 

Macaroni  Baked. 

Butter  a  pudding  dish;  fill  ^  full  with  boiled  macaroni, 
pour  over  it  1  cup  White  Sauce,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and   brown   in   oven. 


Baked  Macaroni  With  Cheese. 

Butter  a  pudding  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  boiled  macaroni, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  add  a  dash  of  paprika.  Repeat 
until  dish  is  nearly  full;  there  should  be  four  layers  if  the  flavor 
of  cheese  is  to  be  strong.  Pour  over  a  cup  White  Sauce  and 
bake  15  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  increasing  the  heat  the  last 
5   minutes  to  brown. 


WHAT    AND     HOW 


Italian  Macaroni. 

y*  lb.  elbow  macaroni  1  small  onion 

3  pints  salted  water  2  cloves 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  yi  lb.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

The  Italians  boil  macaroni  always  with  seasonings  in  the 
water  and  almost  invariably  use  it  with  tomatoes  in  some  form 
Try  this  recipe,  given  me  by  an  Italian  fruit  vender. 

Stick  the  2  cloves,  into  the  onion,  add  it,  with  the  oil,  to 
the  water  in  which  the  macaroni  is  to  be  boiled.  Do  not  rinse 
this  macaroni  after  boiling.  Have  ready  a  good  Tomato  Sauce, 
reheat  the  macaroni  in  this  and  serve  very  hot.  Pass  grated 
cheese  with  it. 

Spaghetti. 

Spaghetti  can  be  cooked  by  any  of  the  recipes  given  for 
macaroni,  but  the  Italians  do  not  break  it  in  pieces.  When 
the  water  is  boiling  dip  the  ends  of  spaghetti  into  it,  and  as 
they  soften  coil  it  around  in  the  kettle. 

Parmesan  Cheese 

is  expensive  when  bought  in  bottles.  The  Italian  grocers  and 
fruiterers  keep  it  in  blocks  at  a  reasonable  price  and  it  is  quite 
easily  grated. 

Farina. 

Farina,  one  of  the  most  wholesome  of  cereals,  is  too  old- 
fashioned  to  be  generally  known.  It  comes  in  small  packages 
is  reasonable  in  price,  and  the  methods  of  using  it  are  fully 
described  on  the  package. 

Rice,  Baked  With  Cheese. 

Rice  may  be  cooked  as  macaroni  baked  with  cheese.  For 
other  recipes  for  the  use  of  rice,  see  Vegetables. 

Vermicelli. 

Vermicelli  may  be  used  as  macaroni,  but  generally  it 
figures  in  soups.  Baked  with  cheese,  it  makes  a  delicate  dish, 
quite  acceptable  as  a  change. 


CEREALS  229 


Indian  Meal  Mush,  I. 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  cup  Indian  meal 

Salt 

Sprinkle  salt  into  the  water,  mix  the  meal  in  a  smooth 
paste  with  cold  water.  Stir  vigorously  while  adding  this  paste 
to  the  boiling  water,  which  should  be  boiling  rapidly.  Cook 
for  ]A  hour,  beating  hard  every  few  moments.  Transfer  to 
the  fireless  cooker  for  4  hours.  If  not  put  into  the  cooker,  it 
must  continue  cooking  on  the  stove,  in  double  boiler,  at  least 
2  hours,  during  which  time  it  will  require  almost  constant 
stirring  and  beating.  It  scorches  easily  and  after  the  first  half 
hour  when  it  must  boil,  the  double  boiler  is  safer  than  the  single 
kettle.  This  is  the  famous  "hasty  pudding"  and  a  most  excel- 
lent winter  night's  supper  for  the  children,  served  with  plenty 
of  milk. 

Indian  Meal  Mush,  II. 

The  meal  may  be  sprinkled  from  the  hand  into  the  boiling 
water,  stirring  constantly,  after  which  proceed  as  preceding 
recipe. 


230  WHAT    AND     HOW 

CHAPTER   XIX 

BREAD  AND  ROLLS.  HOT  BREADS  AND  BISCUIT. 

Bread  and  Bread  Making. 

With  such  valuable  machinery  as  is  now  available,  I  can- 
not recommend  the  old-fashioned  method  of  bread  making. 
More  cleanly,  more  convenient,  better  in  every  way,  is  the 
bread  mixer,  made  by  the  Universal  Company. 

No  one  can  fail  if  directions  be  carefully  followed,  while 
the  labor  of  bread  making  is  minimized.  There  is  no  touch- 
ing of  bread  by  the  hands,  until  shaping  it  into  loaves,  the 
kneading  is  done  evenly  and  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  dough 
remains  in  a  covered  receptacle  until  ready  for  the  pans. 

The  Universal  Cake  Mixer  comes  with  a  kneader  as  well 
as  a  beater,  and  can  be  used  for  rolls,  or  a  small  quantity  of 
bread.  On  the  other  hand,  if  a  large  number  of  rolls  are  be- 
ing made,  the  bread  mixer  will  knead  them  perfectly.  The 
recipes  following  for  bread,  rolls,  muffins,  waffles  and  griddle 
cakes  are  all  meant  to  be  made  in  these  labor-saving  and  con- 
venient machines.  Every  kitchen  should  have  in  its  equip- 
ment, one  bread  mixer  and  a  cake  mixer. 

Bread  dough  is  light  when  it  has  doubled  its  bulk. 

It  is  important  in  bread  making  to  have  every  thing  warm 
but  not  hot,  a  temperature  sufficient  to  cause  the  growth  of 
the  yeast  germ;  but  not  high  enough  to  kill  it.  Too  much  salt 
will  prevent  the  growth  of  yeast,  as  will  also  a  large  quantity 
of  sugar,  while  sugar  in  small  quantities  will  tend  to  help  it. 
Yeast  cakes  may  be  used  in  double  quantity  if  desired,  hasten- 
ing the  process  and  shortening  the  time  required.  Two  yeast 
cakes  to  a  quart  of  liquid  will  raise  the  dough  in  2  or  3  hours 
without  harming  the  bread.  Indeed,  the  time  saved  by  making 
and  baking  bread  in  a  short  time  will  make  the  additional 
expense  advisable.  It  is  better  to  make  2  small  loaves  than 
one  large  one;  they  take  less  time  to  bake  and  will  bake  more 
thoroughly. 


BREADS  281 


To  measure  flour,  fill  cup  with  a  spoon;  do  not  pack  it 
down,  nor  shake  it;  when  full,  level  it  off.  This  applies  to 
all  flour,  corn  meal,  buckwheat,  etc. 

The  yeast  germ  is  killed  in  hot  water  and  the  yeast  con- 
sequently rendered  useless;  be  careful  to  use  only  tepid  water 
to  dissolve  it  in,  and  do  not  pour  it  into  the  sponge  while  the 
latter  is  hot. 

Divide  time  for  baking  bread  into  thirds.  The  first  15 
minutes,  the  bread  should  rise  in  the  pan  without  browning. 
If  the  oven  is  too  hot  and  a  crust  forms  over  the  loaf,  it  pre- 
vents its  rising  as  it  should.  The  second  15  minutes,  it  should 
begin  to  brown,  and  the  third  15  minutes  finishes  the  baking. 
In  a  gas  oven,  the  light  may  be  turned  out  for  the  last  10  min- 
utes, as  the  oven  will  retain  its  heat  that  long. 


Milk  Bread. 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  }/$  cup 

1  tablespoon  Crisco  tepid  water 

2  teaspoons  salt  6  cups  sifted  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Add  Crisco,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk,  scald  until  Crisco  is  melt- 
ed, add  1  cup  cold  water.  Put  into  the  bread  mixer;  add  yeast 
and  flour.  Turn  the  handle  for  five  minutes,  cover  and  let 
raise  until  double  its  bulk.  Turn  the  handle  again  until  dough 
gathers  into  a  ball,  shape  into  loaves,  put  into  pans  (greased); 
set  aside  to  rise.  When  light,  bake  forty -five  minutes,  de- 
creasing the  heat  for  the  last  10  minutes.  This  bread  may  be 
mixed,  raised,  and  baked  in  5  hours.  Butter  and  lard  in  equal 
quantities  can  be  used  instead  of  Crisco. 

Yeast  is  rendered  useless  if  used  with  hot  water,  so  be 
careful  to  use  tepid  water  in  dissolving  it,  and  to  see  that  the 
milk  is  cooled  before  adding  yeast.  If  bread  is  set  over  night, 
use  %  yeast  cake  to  1  pint  liquid,  y$  yeast  cake  to  1  quart 
liquid.  This  quantity  makes  2  loaves.  If  milk  is  not  con- 
venient,  use  water   (tepid). 


232  WHATANDHOW 


Brown  Bread. 

1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses  12  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

3  cups  hot  water  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  cup 

1  teaspoon  salt  tepid  water 

Put  the  molasses  and  water  into  the  bread  mixer;  when 
cool,  add  yeast,  salt  and  sifted  flour,  and  follow  directions  for 
White  Bread.     This  makes  four  loaves. 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

can  be   made   according  to   recipe  for   White   Bread,    using   1 
cup  white  flour,  5  cups  whole  wheat  flour. 

Potato  Bread. 

Pare,  boil  and  mash,  one  medium  sized  potato,  scald 
1  pint  milk,  add  1  pint  cold  water,  stir  gradually  into  the 
potato,  and  add  2  teaspoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  y£  cup  tepid  water.  Put  into  the  bread 
mixer,  add  12  cups  flour  carefully  measured,  according  to 
directions,  and  proceed  as  for  plain  white  bread. 

Griddle  Bread. 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough,  after  it  is  light  and  ready 
to  make  into  loaves,  roll  out  y2  inch  thick  and  place  on  bak- 
ing sheet  or  in  shallow  pan  to  rise.  When  light,  bake  in  quick 
oven  until  well  browned.  It  should  puff  up  while  baking,  and 
have,  when  done,  a  crisp  crust  underneath  and  on  top.  Bake 
20  minutes.  It  is  quite  easy  to  pat  and  pull  into  shape  instead 
of  rolling  out. 

Rye  Bread. 


Ln 


1  cup  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  }{  cup 

1  tablespoon  lard  lukewarm  water 

}4.  cup  brown  sugar  3  cups  flour 

Rye  meal 

Add  lard,  sugar  and  salt,  to  milk  and  water;  when  luke- 
warm add  yeast  and  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  until  light.  Add  about  3  cups  rye  meal  or  enough 
to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead;  knead  thoroughly,  let 
rise,  shape  into  loaves,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


BREADS  238 


Pocketbook  Rolls. 

1  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  sugar 

S  tablespoons  lard,  or  1  teaspoon  salt 

i  tablespoons  Crisco  1  yeast  cake,  dissolved 

Scald  milk,  with  lard,  sugar  and  salt.  When  cool,  add 
yeast  and  sufficient  flour  for  a  stiff  batter,  beat  well  and  put 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  add  flour  and  knead 
thoroughly,  either  on  a  board,  or  in  the  bread  mixer.  Roll 
out  thin  and  cut.  Put  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  one  side,  double 
the  other  over  to  cover  the  butter;  when  all  are  doubled  over, 
set  aside  to  rise  in  the  pans,  and  when  light,  bake  in  hot  oven 
20  minutes. 

Bread  Rolls. 

When  baking  bread  reserve  2  cups  of  the  dough  when  it  is 
ready  to  put  into  baking  tins.  Into  this  work  1  tablespoon 
Crisco  and  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Let  rise  again  and  make  into 
rolls. 

Potato  Rolls. 

Make  a  sponge  of  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  scalded 
milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  yeast  cake  dissolved 
in  1  cup  tepid  water.  After  beating  thoroughly,  put  into  a 
warm  place  to  rise  about  2  hours.  When  light,  add  ^4  cup  lard 
or  Crisco,  2  eggs,  flour  enough  for  soft  dough.  Knead  well, 
and  let  it  rise  again  until  double  its  bulk.  Make  into  rolls,  let 
rise  until  light  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  Start 
these  with  the  beater  in  your  cake  mixer,  replace  beater  with 
kneader  for  second  working. 

Rockford  Rolls. 

Pare,  boil  and  mash  4  medium  sized  potatoes.  Add  3 
eggs,  H  cup  sugar,  1  cup  lard  or  ^  cup  Crisco,  1  pint  water, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  yeast  cake  previously  dissolved  in  luke- 
warm water,  and  flour  enough  for  a  sponge.  (See  Chapter  I.) 
Beat  thoroughly,  and  in  mixing  follow  directions  given  for 
making  bread  and  rolls.  Set  aside  in  a  warm  place  until  light, 
which  should  be  in  about  2  hours.  If  you  have  set  this  sponge 
in  the  cake  mixer;  use  the  beater  until  you  have  the  sponge 
well  beaten,  remove  and  attach  the  kneader.  Now  add  sufficient 


234  WHATANDHOW 


flour  for  a  dough,  remembering  not  to  make  the  dough  for  rolls 
quite  so  stiff  as  for  bread.  After  kneading  well,  set  aside  again 
to  rise.  When  very  light,  knead  again,  roll  out,  cut  and  put 
into  pan  or  on  baking  sheet.  Cover  with  thin  cloth,  and  when 
light  again,  bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven.  If  the  cake  mixer  is 
not  used,  the  sponge  must  be  well  beaten  with  a  spoon,  and  the 
dough  kneaded  by  hand.  This  quantity  makes  5  dozen  rolls  of 
medium  size. 

Potato  Puff  Rolls. 

2  large  potatoes  boiled  and  1  egg 

mashed  1  tablespoon  lard 

1  tablespoon  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  ]A  yeast  cake 

Add  lard  to  potatoes  and  beat  until  melted.  Add  egg  and 
sugar  beaten  together.  Dissolve  yeast  in  tepid  water  and 
beat  into  mixture.  Alternate  milk  and  flour  until  too  stiff  to 
beat,  knead  well  and  set  to  rise.  When  light,  knead  and  roll 
out.  Cut  into  small  rounds  and  put  into  pan  to  bake,  or  on 
baking  sheet,  if  you  have  one.  They  should  be  ready  to  bake 
in  less  than  an  hour.  The  whole  process  takes  but  4  or  5  hours 
and  the  rolls  are  the  easiest  and  best  ones  to  make  that  I  know 
of.  They  require  very  little  kneading  which  may  be  done  in 
the  bowl  in  which  they  were  set,  and  they  can  be  baked  in 
muffin  tins  or  placed  close  together  in  a  baking  pan.  The  dough 
must  be  kept  soft. 

Squash  Rolls. 

A  man  who  remembers  his  grandmother's  hot  squash 
rolls,  asks  that  this  recipe  may  be  inserted.  Modernized,  it 
follows : 

One  pint  milk,  scalded  with  Y/2  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed; 
cool  and  add  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  tepid  water,  y2  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  pint  (2  cups)  squash,  boiled,  mash- 
ed through  colander  and  drained  dry.  Add  enough  flour  for 
soft  dough.  If  a  cake  mixer,  or  small  bread  mixer  be  used,  the 
dough  can  be  kneaded  softer  than  if  done  by  hand;  in  either 
case  use  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Knead  thoroughly  until 
dough  looks  smooth,  cover  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until  it  is 
light,   which   will  be  when   double  its   original  bulk.     Knead 


BREADS  2S6 


again,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  well  greased  gem  pans,  and 
set  to  rise  again.  Fill  the  pans  half  full;  when  biscuits  rise  to 
fill  pans,  bake  in  hot  oven  20  minutes  or  until  they  shrink  from 
pans.     Recipe  makes  about  8  dozen  biscuits,  or  more  if  pans 

arc   small. 

Quick  Biscuit. 

£  cups  Hour  ]4.  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  tablespoon  lard  or  Crisco 

Milk  and  water  in  equal  parts 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift;  chop  in  the  lard  with  a 
knife.  When  about  like  coarse  sand,  add  enough  milk  and 
water,  stirring  with  a  knife,  to  make  a  mixture  that  may  be 
dropped  from  a  spoon  without  spreading;  drop  by  teaspoon- 
fuls,  on  a  tin  baking  sheet,  one  inch  apart.  Brush  over  with 
milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  minutes.  These  bicuits 
may  be  mixed  and  baked  in  twenty  minutes. 


Tea  Biscuit. 

2  cups  flour  y2  teaspoon  salt 

i  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  laid  or  Crisco 

$4  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift  twice,  wrork  in  the  lard  with 
the  tips  of  fingers,  add  the  liquid,  mixing  with  knife.  Roll 
out,  }4  inch  thick,  on  a  floured  board.  Cut  out,  and  bake  on 
tin  baking  sheet,  or  pan,  in  a  hot  oven,  fifteen  minutes.  These 
biscuits  are  more  like  rolls  if  half  the  quantity  of  shortening  is 
used. 

Potato  Biscuit. 

Boil  and  mash  6  medium  sized  potatoes;  press  through 
a  sieve,  add  salt  to  taste,  1  cup  milk  and  1  teaspoon  melted 
butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  1  cup  flour.  Roll  out 
in  thin  sheet  on  well  floured  board,  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter. 
Bake  on  griddle,  or  in  hot  oven  and  serve  at  once.  Three  things 
are  necessary  for  the  success  of  these  biscuit — soft  dough,  light 
handlings  and  quick^baking. 


236  WHATANDHOW 


Sally  Lunn. 

1  quart  milk  3  eggs 

yi  cup  butter  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  yeast  cake 

Warm  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  salt  together,  long  enough 
to  melt  butter.  Cool,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  and  yeast,  dis- 
solved in  tepid  water.  Add  enough  sifted  flour  for  thick  batter, 
and  pour  into  a  well  greased  fluted  pan,  or  old-fashioned  Turk's 
head,  which  is  a  pan  with  a  funnel  in  the  middle,  and  set  aside 
to  rise.  The  pan  should  not  be  more  than  half  full,  as  when 
light  the  batter  should  reach  the  top.  Bake  about  1  hour  in 
moderate  oven.  If  kept  in  a  warm  place,  it  should  be  light  in 
3  hours.    Enough  for  two  large  pans. 

Quick  Sally  Lunn. 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

2  eggs  ^i  cup  sugar 

%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten,  milk  and  flour 
alternately.  Beat  well,  add  baking  powder  and  nutmeg,  mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  loaf  cake  pan  40  minutes  in  hot  oven. 


Corn  Bread  (White  Meal). 

Beat  2  eggs  light,  stir  half  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice 
mashed  to  a  paste  into  1  pint  milk,  and  add  to  the  eggs  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter.  Sift  together  2  cups  white  corn 
meal,  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  of  baking  powder.  Stir  all  to- 
gether and  bake  in  shallow  pan,  twenty  minutes,  in  hot  oven. 

Corn  Bread  (Yellow  Meal). 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  butter  substitute 
1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1^2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  the  butter  (melted),  sift  all 
the  dry  ingredients  together,  and  stir  into  them  the  milk  and 
the  eggs.  Beat  hard  and  bake  half  hour,  in  a  well  greased 
pan,  in  ajiot^oven. 


BREADS  237 


White  Corn  Meal 

is  always  used  in  the  South,  and  as  it  differs  from  the  yellow 
in  quality,  requires  recipes  for  itself.  It  is  also  called  South- 
ern corn  meal,  and  all  recipes  of  Southern  origin  may  be  as- 
sumed to  call  for  it,  when  corn  meal  is  mentioned. 

Southern  Batter  Bread. 

Sift  2  cups  white  corn  meal,  pour  over  it  2>^  cups  boil- 
ing water,  cover  closely  and  cool;  add  1^2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  2  eggs,  \]/2  cups  milk.  Beat 
well,  add  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Bake  in  a  well  greased  pudding  dish,  forty  min- 
utes in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  baked. 

Baltimore  Inn  Corn  Bread. 

]/2  cup  rice,  boiled  to  a  mush  1  tablespoon  butter  and  lard  mixed 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  \yi  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  eggs 

y^  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  meal  and  scald  wTith  the  boiling  water.  Stir  to  a 
smooth  mush,  add  rice  which  should  be  well  drained  and  mash- 
ed. Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  to  the  mixture;  now  add  enough 
milk  to  make  a  batter  the  consistency  of  custard  or  thick  cream. 
Stir  in  the  baking  powder  and  butter  (melted),  and  bake  in 
shallow  baking  pan  in  hot  oven,  20  minutes  to  half  hour. 

Mush  Bread. 

2  cups  milk  4  eggs 

>3  cup  white  corn  meal,  sifted  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  separately;  heat  milk  in  double  boiler,  pour 
over  the  meal,  return  to  fire  and  cook  2  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Cool  slightly;  beat  in  the  egg  yolks  and  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites.  Sprinkle  baking  powder  over  the  top,  cut  and 
fold  it  in.  Bake  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in  dish 
in  which  it  was  baked,  using  a  paper  casserole  cover  or  napkin 
to  cover  the  sides  of  pan. 


WHAT    AND     HOW 


CHAPTER  XX 


MUFFINS,  WAFFLES  AND  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Muffins  I. 

l/i  cup  butter  V^  cup  milk 

}i  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  twice,  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Have 
muffin  tins  well  greased  and  hot,  fill  $4  full,  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  half  an  hour  or  until  brown  and  shrunken  from  pans. 

Muffins  II. 

1  egg  }{  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  milk 

l/i  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  flour  sifted 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  sugar,  butter  and  egg  together,  in  a  Universal  Cake 

Mixer  if  you  have  it,  add  the  milk  and  flour  and  beat  again. 

Now  add  the  salt   and  enough   flour  to   make  a  stiff  batter, 

remembering  that  a  batter  is  a  mixture  which  can  be  beaten 

When  ready  to  bake,  add  the  baking  powder,  pour  into  well 

greased  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle  and  bake,  turning  them 

over  to  brown  on  the  top. 

Blueberry  or  Huckleberry  Muffins. 

yi  cup  butter  2>£  cups  flour 

y$  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  blueberries  Pinch  of  salt 

Cream   butter   and   sugar,   add   egg,   beaten,   and   berries. 

Mix  thoroughly.     Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together 

twice,   and  add  alternately   with   milk.   This  recipe   makes   16 

muffins.     Bake  in  muffin  tins. 

Rice  Muffins. 

2  cups  boiled  rice  measured  after  }4  tablespc  m\  sugar 
boiling                                                            3  eggs 

1  cup  flour,  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  1  tablespoon  melted  lard 

baking  powder  or  butter 

3  cups  milk  K  teaspoon  salt 


BJR  E  A  1)  S  239 


Boil  the  rice  until  it  is  a  soft  mush.  Drain,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  light,  the 
milk,  melted  butter  (or  lard),  flour  and  sugar.  Whip  the  whites 
of  eggs  until  dry  and  stiff,  adding  the  salt  to  them  before  beat- 
ing, and  fold  in  lightly.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  or  muffin  tins. 
Muffins  may  be  baked  in  the  oven  either  in  rings  on  baking 
sheets,  or  in   muffin  tins. 

Corn  Meal  Gems. 

1  cup  com  meal  (yellow)  1  cup  flotil- 
la tablespoons  sugar  ]4,  teaspoon  salt 
*2  eggs  beaten  1  cup  milk 
•£  tablespoons  melted  Crisco  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  3  times. 
Mix  eggs  with  milk  and  stir  into  flour  and  meal  mixture.  Add 
melted  Crisco  and  bake  in  well  greased  gem  pans  20  minutes, 
in  moderate  oven.  These  gems  may  be  made  without  the  eggs, 
in  which  case  use  an  extra  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 

Hominy  Muffins. 

Follow  recipe,  for  rice  muffins  using  breakfast  hominy  in 
place  of  rice.  %  cup  raw  rice  or  hominy  will  make  2  cups 
when  boiled. 

Graham  Muffins. 

To  one  pint  of  cold  milk  add  one  and  a  half  pints  graham 
flour,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  melted  Crisco.  Stir  and  beat  well,  and  lastly  sift 
in  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Stir  so  as  to  mix  evenly 
through  the  dough.  Put  into  muffin  pans  well  greased  with 
Crisco  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an  hour,  or  until 
thoroughly    cooked. 

English  Muffins. 

1  cup  mashed  potato  l/2  cup  sugar 

3  eggs  ^4  cup  lard  or  Crisco 

2  cups  water  >£  teaspoon  salt 

1  yeast  cake  Flour  for  a  sponge 

Beat  the  lard  into  the  potato  while  the  latter  is  hot,  add 
the  salt,  sugar  and  water.  Beat  the  eggs,  stir  them  in,  and 
then  add  the  flour.  Beat  hard,  add  the  yeast  previously  dis- 
solved in  y2  cup  tepid  water.     If  you  have  a  Universal  Cake 


240  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Mixer,  you  may  put  all  the  ingredients  into  it  at  once,  and 
beat  all  together,  adding  the  flour  last.  This  makes  a  sponge 
(a  soft  batter)  and  must  be  set  aside,  well  covered  for  2  hours 
or  until  light.  When  light,  change  the  beater  in  the  cake  mixer 
for  the  kneader,  and  turn  in  enough  flour  for  a  soft  dough  that 
may  be  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Set  aside  again  until  light, 
turn  the  kneader  a  few  times,  and  remove  it.  Have  ready  well 
greased  muffin  rings  set  on  a  baking  sheet,  drop  the  dough  by 
the  spoonful  into  each  one  until  it  is  half  full,  set  in  a  warm 
place  until  they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  rings  when  they  are  ready 
to  bake.  This  quantity  will  make  3  dozen  muffins.  If  so  many 
are  not  required,  bake  the  remainder  as  rolls,  by  baking  in 
muffin  tins,  or  reduce  the  recipe.  These  are  good  the  second 
day,  if  split,  buttered,  and  toasted. 


Whole  Wheat  Muffins. 

4  cups  whole  wheat  flour  3  cups  scalded  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  lard  or  Crisco 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  yeast  cake 

Heat  milk,  with  sugar  and  salt,  take  from  fire  and  stir 
in  lard.  When  cool,  add  yeast  dissolved  in  1  cup  tepid  water. 
Sift  flour  into  bowl  or  cake  mixer,  add  milk  mixture  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Set  aside  in  a  warm  place  until  light  (about  3 
hours),  put  into  muffin  tins  (well  greased),  let  rise  again  and 
bake.     See  time  table  for  baking. 


Graham  Puffs. 

4  cups  Graham  flour  4  eggs 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  the  milk,  salt,  sugar  and 
melted  butter  to  the  yolks,  add  the  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder,  gradually,  beating  hard  to  prevent  lumping.  The 
cake  mixer  will  save  time  and  labor.  When  well  beaten,  fold 
in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  fill  hot  greased  muffin  tins  half 
full  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 


BREA D  S  >  ^  I 


Popovers. 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  sifted  flour 

£  eggs  j^  teaspoon  butter,  melted 

l4  teaspoon  salt 

Boat  eggs  just  enough  to  mix  yolks  and  whites,  add  milk 
and  salt.  Add  this  mixture  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring 
vigorously.  Beat  until  the  batter  is  smooth.  Have  rnuffin 
pans  very  hot  and  well  greased,  fill  Y$  full  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
40  minutes.  Popover  tins  are  not  a  necessity,  but  if  you  can 
procure  them,  the  popovers  will  be  a  better  shape  than  if  baked 
in  regular  muffin  tins.    This  quantity  makes  10  popovers. 

Kornlet  Muffins. 

1  quart  milk  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs,  beaten  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  cup  kornlet 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  3  times.  Add 
milk  gradually,  beating  all  the  time,  and  eggs.  Lastly  stir 
in  kornlet.  Beat  hard  and  bake  in  well  greased  muffin  tins 
in  a  hot  oven.  Sift  dry  ingredients  on  squares  of  manilla 
paper,  using  2,  about  14  inches  square. 

Waffles. 
Have  the  waffle  irons  very  hot  and  well  greased,  using 
the  butter  brush  to  reach  into  every  depression.  Pour  the 
batter  from  a  pitcher  until  the  iron  is  lightly  covered,  close 
the  irons  and  turn  them  over.  If  the  irons  are  heated  just 
right  the  waffle  should  bake  in  3  minutes.  Never  wash  a  waffle 
iron,  rub  it  off  with  salt  after  using,  and  put  away  in  a  paper 
bag. 

Waffles. 

3  cups  flour  2  cups  milk 

2  eggs  \}4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter     yi  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  add  milk  gradually,  yolks 
of  eggs,  wTell  beaten,  butter  and  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff 
and  folded  in.  If  not  ready  to  bake  at  once,  do  not  sift  bak- 
ing powder  with  other  dry  ingredients,  but  stir  it  in  just  be- 
fore baking. 


242  WHATANDHOW 


Kornlet  Waffles. 

1  cup  kornlet  2  eggs 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  flour 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoon  salt  together 
twice.  Add  milk  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  kornlet  and 
butter  together  and  beat  into  the  batter.  Continue  beating 
for  2  minutes.    Bake  as  waffles. 

The  Universal  Cake  Mixer  is  invaluable  in  the   mixing 
and  beating  of  this  recipe. 

Rice  Waffles. 

1  cup  boiled  rice  2  eggs 

2  cups  milk  1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Mash  rice  through  a  sieve,  stir  in  butter.  If  rice  is  not 
hot  enough  to  melt  butter,  soften  it  before  adding  to  rice. 
Add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  to  the  milk.  Sift  salt, 
flour,  and  baking  powder  twice,  combine  milk  and  rice  mix- 
tures, add  flour  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  whipped  stiff 
and  dry.  The  batter  should  be  thin  and  free  from  lumps.  Bake 
according  to  directions  given  in  preceding  recipes. 

Butter  Substitute. 

In  all  recipes  calling  for  butter,  I  recommend  the  use  of 
butter  substitutes.  There  are  several  good  nut  butters  on  the 
market  at  half  the  price  of  butter,  that  will  answer  just  as 
well  for  pastry,  bread,  rolls,  muffins,  and  cake.  Crisco  is  the 
best  substitute  for  lard  and  lard  and  butter  mixed.  It  is  also 
perfectly  good  in  gingerbread  or  even  in  plain  cake  of  all  kinds. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  if  using  for  cake. 

Griddle  Cakes. 

Use  soapstone  griddle  if  possible,  as  it  requires  no  greas- 
ing, thus  avoiding  the  smoke  arising  from  a  greased  griddle, 
and  as  cakes  are  baked  instead  of  fried,  it  is  by  far  the  best 
for  use.  Let  it  heat  gradually — there  is  danger  of  its  crack- 
ing if  heated  suddenly.     Rub  with  salt  and  wipe  with  a  clean 


GRIDDLE     CAKES  243 


cloth.  If  you  have  a  steel  griddle,  you  may  also  use  it  with- 
out greasing,  if  the  cakes  have  melted  butter  in  them  and 
unless  there  is  molasses  in  recipe.  If  you  must  grease  the 
griddle,  in  case  you  use  an  iron  one,  cut  a  turnip  in  half,  dip 
it  into  fat,  and  rub  over  the  surface.  This  makes  compara- 
tively no  smoke. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

4  cups  buckwheat  I/2  yeast  cake 

1  teaspoon  salt  Tepid  water 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  ><  cup  tepid  water,  add  salt  to 
buckwheat  and  enough  tepid  water  for  thin  batter.  Add 
yeast  and  beat  hard.  Cover  and  leave  in  warm  place  over 
night.  In  the  morning,  take  2  tablespoons  molasses  (not 
syrup),  stir  into  it  %  teaspoon  soda,  and  add  to  the  batter, 
stirring  it  in  very  lightly.  The  molasses  gives  to  the  cakes 
the  rich  brown  color  which  belongs  to  the  real  buckwheat 
cake,  while  the  soda  counteracts  any  acidity  which  may  de- 
velop during  the  night.  Do  not  beat  the  batter  after  it  is 
once  light. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

2  cups  flour  1  egg 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light,  add  milk,  and  fold  in  flour,  salt  and  bak- 
ing powder  sifted  together  twice.  Bake  at  once.  Marion 
Harland  recommends  this  as  "the  best,  cheapest  and  most 
wholesome  way  I  know  for  the  preparation  of  breakfast  cakes," 
and  if  they  are  mixed  quickly  and  baked  at  once,  they  are 
far  better  than  any  flannel  cakes  of  which  I  have  knowledge. 
If  the  batter  be  made  a  little  thinner  by  using  less  flour,  it 
makes  excellent  waffles. 

Whole  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes. 

]/2  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

\  cup  flour  \yi,  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

yi  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  beat  egg  and  add  milk,  pour 
slowly  on  to  the  first  mixture,  beat  hard,  add  butter  and  bake 


244  WHATANDHOW 


on  griddle.    These  make  rather  a  thick  cake,  light  and  delicious; 
it  may  be  split  and  butter  put  between  the  halves. 


Corn  Slappers. 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal  3  eggs 

1  cup  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  corn  meal  and  scald  it  with  yi  cup  boiling  water, 
stirring  well,  add  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  light  and  enough 
milk  to  enable  you  to  give  the  batter  a  very  thorough  beat- 
ing. Now  add  flour  and  salt  sifted  together,  and  more  milk. 
The  batter  now  should  be  about  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  when  ready  to  bake, 
stir  in  the  baking  powder. 


Oatmeal  Griddle  Cakes. 

%  cup  cold  cooked  oatmeal  %  cup  sugar 

1}4  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

\yi  cups  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  sugar,  add  milk  grad- 
ually to  oatmeal  with  egg,  working  it  smooth  with  part  of  flour 
until  it  can  be  well  beaten.  When  free  from  lumps  add  the 
remainder  of  the  flour  and  milk,  the  melted  butter  last.  These 
cakes  can  be  made  without  the  egg  in  which  case  add  an  extra 
teaspoon   baking  powder. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes  I. 

Follow  recipe  for  oatmeal  cakes,  substituting  cold  boiled 
rice  for  oatmeal. 

Rice  Cakes  II. 

Boil  ]/2  cup  rice  until  reduced  to  a  mush,  drain  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  When  cool,  add  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  beat 
hard.  To  this  add  4  cups  milk  and  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  in 
enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Lastly,  stir  in  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
and  bake  at  once. 


G  R  I  D  D  L  E     C  A  K  E  S  245 


Bread  Crumb  Cakes. 

i  cups  stale  bread  crumbfl  i  eggs 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  yi  cup  flour 

l  tablespoon  butter  substitute  .Salt — '4  teaspoon 

2  teaspoons   baking  powder 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  until  soft,  add  eggs  beaten  and  other 
ingredients.      Heat    well. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. 

1 ..  cup  corn  meal,  white  \l/2  cups  sour  milk 

l/2  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  egg  lA  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  molasses  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk,  egg 
beaten,  and  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  These  cakes 
will  bake  on  a  soapstone  griddle  without  greasing  it,  but, 
having  molasses  in  them,  will  not  bake  on  the  steel  griddle 
unless  it  is  greased  slightly.  Give  them  a  hard  beating  be- 
fore baking.  They  will  be  light  and  flaky  if  baked  as  soon 
as  mixed.  The  action  of  soda  and  sour  milk  combined  is  the 
agent  for  "raising"  the  batter,  and  this  action  does  not  con- 
tinue for  many  minutes. 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

1  quart  grated  corn  4  eggs 

1  pint  milk  >£  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter         1  cup  flour 

The  corn  may  be  grated,  or  the  grain  split  with  a  sharp 

knife  and  scraped  out  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  or  best  of 

all  ways  to  obtain  the  grain  without  the  husk,  use  the  little 

scorer  that  comes  for  the  purpose  and  will  be  found  a  great 

convenience  at  the  table,  when  corn  is  served  boiled  on  the 

cob,  as  well  as  in  the  kitchen  in  the  preparation  of  corn  for 

cooking  in   various   ways.      Beat  the  yolks   of  eggs,   and  add 

to  the  corn.     Add  salt,  milk  and  melted  butter,  and  mix  well. 

Now  add  the  flour  cautiously  that  the  batter  may  not  be  too 

thick,  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  on  a  hot 

griddle.     These   cakes   are  easily   spoiled  by   too   much   flour. 

try  a  little  on  the  griddle  if  too  thin  to  turn,  you  may  add  a 

little  more  flour.     It  may  need  all  the  cup  called  for  in  the 

recipe  and  it  may  not,  depending  upon  the  brand  of  flour.  This  is  a 

Creole  griddle  cake,  and  is  considered  a  great  delicacy  in  the  South. 


246  WHAT     AND    HOW 

CHAPTER  XXI 

RUSKS,  CRULLERS  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 

Rusks. 

Set  a  sponge  over  night  with  3  cups  milk,  scalded  and 
cooled,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  tepid  water, 
and  enough  flour  for  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well,  cover,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  add  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup 
butter  and  lard  mixed,  or  $/i  cup  Crisco,  2  eggs  beaten,  y2 
teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  hot  water,  and  flour 
for  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well  in  the  cake  mixer,  not  less  than 
5  minutes,  cover  and  let  rise.  When  light,  turn  the  kneader 
for  3  minutes,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  small  cutter  and  put  in  pan 
or  on  baking  sheet  about  2  inches  apart  so  that  they  will  not 
touch  when  light;  cover  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  set 
aside.  When  light,  brush  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  slight- 
ly beaten  and  sweetened,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  20  minutes.  If  sponge  is  set  in  morning,  use  \}4 
yeast  cakes. 

Clover  Rusks. 

With  the  hands  well  buttered,  shape  part  of  the  dough  in 
balls  the  size  of  marbles;  grease  a  muffin  tin,  and  put  3  balls 
into  each  tin.  Remember  that  when  light,  each  ball  will  be 
just  double  the  size  you  made  it;  by  this,  you  will  be  able  to 
judge  of  the  right  size  to  roll  the  balls.  When  light,  bake  as 
above. 

Potato  Rusks. 

Set  sponge  over  night,  of  1  cup  mashed  potato,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  ]/2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  cup  tepid  water  and 
2  tablespoons  flour.  Beat  well  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place. 
If  too  thick  to  beat,  add  more  tepid  water.  In  morning,  add  1 
cup  butter,  or  yi  cup  Crisco^  S  eggs  and  flour  for  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  well  and  set  aside  until  light.  Follow  directions  in 
recipe  for  rusks  for  cutting  out  and  baking. 


RUSK,    CRULLERS    AND    DOUGHNUTS  M 


Doughnuts. 

Do  not  attempt  to  fry  doughnuts  or  crullers,  until  you 
have  carefully  read  directions  for  deep  fat  frying  in  Chapter  I, 
remembering  that  you  are  to  fry  an  uncooked  mixture.  Crullers 
are  richer  and  crisper  than  doughnuts.  Marion  Harland  says 
doughnuts  improve  with  age  if  kept  in  a  stone  jar  with  a  tight 
fitting  cover,  or  in  a  large  cracker  box.  As  you  pack  them  in, 
sprinkle  each  layer  with  powdered  sugar. 

Doughnuts  I. 

4  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  2  teaspoons  lard  or  Crisco 

2  cups  sugar  2  eggs 

Ya,  teaspoon  salt  lA  teaspoon  nutmeg 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  Flour 

Beat  the  lard  or  Crisco  into  the  potato  while  it  is  hot. 
Add  eggs  beaten  with  the  sugar,  and  seasoning.  Stir  in  the 
baking  powder  and  lastly  the  flour,  using  only  enough  to  make 
dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  and  cut.  This  quantity  will  make 
5  dozen  doughnuts  if  cut  with  a  medium  size  cutter.  See 
directions  in  paragraph  above  for  keeping. 


Doughnuts  II. 

1  cup  milk  %  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 

yi  yeast  cake  1  cup  brown  sugar 

>£  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

yi  nutmeg,  grated  Flour 

Scald  milk  and  cool;  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  tepid  water,  the  salt,  and  enough  flour  for 
a  stiff  batter;  let  rise  over  night.  In  morning,  add  shortening 
melted,  sugar,  eggs  beaten,  nutmeg,  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough;  let  rise  again,  and  if  necessary  add  more  flour, 
but  keep  dough  just  as  soft  as  is  possible  to  handle.  In  the 
cake  mixer,  the  kneading  is  easily  done,  when  it  could  not  be 
done  by  hand.  Roll  out  Y±  inch  thick,  cut  and  place  on  floured 
board,  cover  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  let  rise  until  very 
light.  Fry,  drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  when 
cool. 


248  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Quick  Doughnuts,  I. 

yi  cup  butter  3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  \}4  cups  milk 

5  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

]4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  nutmeg 
and  milk.  Put  4  cups  of  the  flour  into  sifter  with  baking 
powder,  and  stir  into  the  mixture.  Use  the  other  cup  to  roll 
out  with,  you  may  have  to  use  some  of  it  to  make  the  dough 
stiff  enough  to  handle,  but  keep  it  as  soft  as  possible.  Roll  out 
and  cut;  fry  as  already  directed. 

Quick  Doughnuts,  II. 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

\l/>  cups  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Dash  of  salt  yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Flour  for  soft  dough 

Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  sugar;  sift  together  2  cups  flour 
with  seasoning  and  baking  powder  and  beat  into  mixture. 
Now  add  enough  flour  for  soft  dough  and  follow  directions 
given.  Instead  of  rolling  out  and  cutting,  these  may  be  dropped 
into  hot  fat  by  teaspoonful. 

Crullers,  I. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

yi  cup  lard  or  Crisco  6  eggs,  well  beaten  separately 

Flour 

Cream  lard  or  Crisco  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and 
cinnamon.  Now  stir  in  enough  flour  for  a  stiff  batter,  fold  in 
the  beaten  whites  and  add  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  out,  cut  with  a  cutter  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

Crullers,  II. 

4  tablespoons  butter  yi  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  4  eggs 

Flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  cinnamon  and  beat  hard. 
Add  eggs,  beaten,  and  beat  hard  again.  Sift  the  flour  in  grad- 
ually,   enough    for    a    good    dough    that    can    be    rolled    out. 


RISK,    CRULLERS    AND    DOUGHNUTS  240 


Proceed  by  directions    given    in    Crullers    I.      Fry    the    little 

rounds   that     are     cut     from     the     centre;     they     make     quite 


pretty  little  crullers. 


Raisin  Bread, 


1  cup  milk  scalded  yi  teaspoon  salt 

£  cups  Hour  8  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  cut  in  half 

1  yeast  cake  1/l  lb.  currants 

1  cup  tepid  water 

Sift  flour  and  sugar,  pour  over  it  the  hot  milk  and  beat 
until  cool  enough  to  add  the  yeast,  dissolved  in  the  tepid  water. 
Add  salt,  beat,  and  set  to  raise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light, 
add  eggs,  beaten,  raisins  and  currants,  mixing  and  beating 
until  thoroughly  combined  and  the  fruit  well  distributed. 
Add  enough  flour  for  a  soft  dough,  change  the  beater  in  cake 
mixer  for  the  kneader,  and  knead  5  minutes.  Make  into  3 
loaves  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  dough  has  doubled  in  bulk, 
bake  as  bread.  Sultana  raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  seeded 
raisins. 

Nut  Bread. 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  yi  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

}A  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  three  times. 
Beat  eggs  light  and  add  to  milk.  Stir  into  the  milk  the  nuts, 
and  combine  mixtures.  Put  into  pans,  let  rise  20  minutes  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  ^4  hour.  It  should  almost  double  its 
bulk  before  baking.     Use  small  bread  tins  well  greased. 


250  WHAT    AND     HOW 


CHAPTER  XXII 

CAKE. 

Miss  Farmar,  in  her  book  on  cooking,  lays  great  stress 
upon  the  importance  of  knowing  how  to  measure  and  com- 
bine materials  properly.  She  says:  "The  mixing  and  baking 
of  cake  requires  more  care  and  judgment  than  any  other  branch 
of  cookery,  notwithstanding  it  seems  the  one  most  frequently 
attempted  by  the  inexperienced."  There  are  points  to  be 
studied  by  the  novice  until  she  is  master  of  the  art  of  cake 
making,  and  I  will  make  them  as  brief  as  possible. 

First,  have  the  best  of  materials,  and  have  everything 
ready  before  you  begin  to  mix  the  cake. 

Second,  make  sure  that  your  fire  is  solid  and  will  not 
need  attention  while  your  cake  is  baking.  You  must  be  sure 
of  a  steady  even  heat. 

Materials.  A  good  quality  of  butter  substitute,  eggs  per- 
fectly fresh,  fine  granulated  sugar  and  pastry  flour  are  essen- 
tials. 

All  authorities  now  recommend  the  use  of  pastry  flour 
for  cakes.  The  best  flour  for  fine  cakes  is  the  Swansdown  flour. 
It  is  only  slightly  higher  in  price  than  ordinary  flour  and  the 
results  justify  the  extra  expense.  It  is  more  starchy  and  less 
glutenous,  consequently  makes  a  lighter  and  more  tender 
cake.  If  ordinary  bread  flour  be  used,  take  1  tablespoon 
of  it  from  each  cup  measured.  Long  continued  beating 
makes  a  fine  grained  cake.  Where  powdered  sugar  was  used 
in  fine  cakes  the  granulated  may  now  be  substituted  since 
it  is  much  finer  in  grain  than  formerly.  Do  not  use  the  coarse 
granulated  sugar.  It  makes  a  coarse  grained  cake  with  a  hard 
crust. 

The  Oven. 

The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  raise  the  cake  to  its 
full  height  before  it  begins  to  brown.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot, 
a  crust  will  form  which  prevents  the  cake  from  raising.  Watch 
it  closely,  it  may  be  necessary  to  open  the  oven  door  a  crack, 
until  the  batter  shows  signs  of  spreading. 


CAKE  251 


Consult  time  table  for  length  of  time  required  to  bake. 
Test  with  a  wooden  toothpick;  if  it  comes  out  clean  from  the 
middle  of  the  cake,  it  is  done. 

Divide  time  for  baking  into  quarters.  The  first  quarter 
it  should  raise  to  its  full  height  (double  its  original  bulk)  with- 
out browning.  The  second  it  should  begin  to  brown;  the  third, 
decrease  heat  slightly,  and  allow  it  to  continue  browning;  the 
last  quarter  it  finishes  baking  and  shrinks  from  the  pan.  Turn 
out  on  a  wire  cake  cooler. 

Cakes  without  butter  are  best  baked  on  paper.  Select 
a  light  weight  manilla  paper,  and  cut  it  to  fit  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  pan.  In  case  of  a  square  pan,  cut  a  diagonal  slit 
at  each  corner,  so  that  the  edges  will  fold  over  each  other 
in  the  corner  of  the  pan.  Grease  well,  using  a  butter  brush, 
and  when  the  cake  is  baked  the  paper  will  peel  off  readily. 
Sponge  cake  and  angel  food  should  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the 
pan,  which  must  be  inverted  with  something  under  its  edges, 
allowing  the  air  to  circulate  underneath.  This  process  elong- 
ates the  air  cells  and  assures  lightness  as  well  as  firmness. 

A  Universal  cake  mixer,  enameled  bowls,  Dover  egg 
beater,  perforated  wooden  spoon  for  beating  batter,  silver 
fork  for  creaming  butter  and  sugar,  "clean  cut"  layer  cake 
pans,  or  Van  Duzen  loaf  cake  pans.  Russia  iron  baking  sheets 
for  drop  cakes  and  cookies,  and  enameled  gem  pans  for  small 
cakes,  are  the  articles  I  recommend  for  cake  making  and  baking. 

Drexel  Layer  Cake. 

This   is   the   simplest   and   plainest  recipe,   good   for   any 

kind  of  layer  cake  where  a  rich  cake  is  not  desired. 

]4,  cup  butter  2  eggs 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

z/2  cup  milk  sifted  with  \]4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  using  a  silver  fork,  add  sugar  gradually, 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  last  with  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  layers. 
These  directions  for  mixing  hold  good  for  all  cakes  containing 
butter,  unless  otherwise  stated. 


252  WHATANDHOW 


A  Richer  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  flour,  sifted  3  times  with 

2  cups  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 
4  eggs  1  cup  milk 

This  quantity  will  make  2  layer  cakes,  or  it  may  be  baked 
as  loaf  cake.  It  is  capable  of  much  variety,  nuts  may  be  added, 
or  fruit  if  baked  as  loaf  cake,  and  any  sort  of  filling  or  icing 
can  be  used  for  layer  cake.  Mix  according  to  directions  given 
in  previous  recipe. 

Orange  Layer  Cake. 

3  tablespoons  butter  3  cups  Swansdown  flour,  sifted  with 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

5  eggs  1  cup  water 

Juice  of  an  orange  and  }4  the  grated  peel 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,   add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  the 
orange  juice  and  grated  rind,  and  the  water  and  flour  alter- 
nately.    Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  reserving 
the  other  two  for  the  filling;  bake  in  layer  cake  pans. 

Filling  for  Orange  Cake. 

To  the  whipped  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  gradually  1  cup 
powdered  sugar,  beating  all  the  while.  Add  juice  1  orange 
and  }4  the  grated  peel,  and  when  soft  and  creamy,  spread 
between  layers  of  cake  (when  cold)  and  over  the  top. 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar  \%  cups  Swansdown  flour,  sifted  with 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

yi  cup  milk  Whites  of  10  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  fold  in  the  eggs  whipped 
stiff  and  dry,  alternately  with  flour.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. 

Whites  3  eggs  whipped  stiff,  add  2>£  cups  powdered  sugar, 
whip  well  together.  Spread  a  layer  with  this,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cocoanut,  place  on  top  of  this  a  second  layer  of  cake, 
spread  with  icing  and  cocoanut.  Cover  top  and  sides  in  the 
same  way.  This  recipe  makes  4  layers,  half  of  it  will  make  a 
very  good  sized  cake.     Use  yolks  for  gold  cake,  or  custard. 


CAKE  253 


Chocolate  Cake. 

)i  lb.  chocolate,  in  small  pieces  1  cup  milk 

1  egg,  yolk  only,  beaten  1  cup  powdered  .sugar 

Mix  well  together  and  boil  until  smooth  and  thick,  stir- 
ring constantly.     Set  aside  to  cool. 

x/i  cup  butter  Yolks  2  eggs,  beaten  light 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  flour,  sifted  1  teaspoon  soda 

Whites  2  eggs,   whipped  light 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  milk. 
Dissolve  soda  in  1  tablespoon  hot  water.  Add  this,  the  flour 
and  the  beaten  whites  folded  in.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  and  add  the  chocolate  mixture,  folding  it  over  and 
over  until  well  mixed.  Bake  in  2  layers  (see  time  table  for 
baking  layer  cake.)  Put  together  and  cover  with  Boiled  Icing, 
or  Chocolate  Icing. 

Caramel  Cake. 

%  cup  butter  4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  according  to  directions,  folding  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs  at  the  last,  and  bake  in  layer  cake  pans. 


Filling. 

2^3  cups  (1  lb.)  brown  sugar  %  cup  butter 

Cream  these  thoroughly  and  cook  over  hot  water  until 
smooth  and  creamy,  add  1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  cook 
(without  the  hot  water)  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until 
thick  enough  to  spread.  Put  between  layers,  and  cover  top 
and   sides. 

Sponge  Cake. 

5  eggs  The  weight  of  2  in  sifted  pastry 

Their  weight  in  sugar  flour 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  without  separating  the 
eggs,  for  20  minutes.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  and  the 
flour.      Line   pans   with   paper,    grease    with   butter   and   dust 


254  WHATANDHOW 


with  powdered  sugar,  shaking  out  all  that  will  not  stick  to 
paper.  This  gives  a  sugary  crust  to  cake.  If  Universal  cake 
mixer  is  used,  the  labor  of  beating  is  materially  decreased. 

Sedgeley  Cake. 

Into  a  Universal  cake  mixer  put  y^  cup  butter  substitute 
softened,  iy$  cups  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  Y/2  cup  of  milk,  \yi 
cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  yi  teaspoon 
cloves,  %  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  y*  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Beat  all  together  for  3  minutes.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Put  to- 
gether and  cover  with 

Sedgeley  Frosting. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  butter.  ^3  cup  of 
cream,  y^  teaspoon  Mapleine. 

Mix  all  together,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point,  boil  15 
minutes,  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  While  soft, 
place  pieces  of  English  walnut  meats  over  the  top.  If  not 
strong  with  the  taste  of  maple  sugar,  add  more  Mapleine. 

Quick  Cake. 

yi  cup  soft  butter  substitute  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^3  cups  brown  sugar  }4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  y£  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

}4  cup  milk  }4  lb.  dates,  stoned  and  cut  into 

\yi  cups  flour  pieces 

Put  ingredients  into  bowl,  and  beat  all  together  for  3 
minutes.  Bake  in  a  loaf  35  or  40  minutes.  This  is  Miss  Far- 
mar's  recipe,  and  if  mixed  according  to  directions,  cannot 
fail.  I  would  suggest  that  the  ingredients  be  put  into  a  cake 
mixer,  in  the  order  given,  and  the  handle  turned  for  3  min- 
utes. The  mixer  saves  much  strength,  and  is  a  great  improve- 
ment over  a  spoon  wielded  by  hand.  This  recipe  may  be  baked 
in  layers  and  put  together  with  Chocolate  Icing,  or  a  white 
filling,  and  in  the  place  of  dates,  seeded  and  chopped  raisins 
may  be  used,  or  the  fruit  may  be  left  out  entirely.  I  know 
of  no  more  satisfactory  cake  so  easily  made,  and  capable  of 
so  many  variations.  Notice  that  nothing  is  prepared  separately. 
All  ingredients  go  in  before  the  beating  begins.  There  will  be 
utter  failure  if  they  are  added  separately. 


CAKE  255 


Fruit  Cake  I. 

1  lb.  flour,  sifted  1  cup  milk 

1  lb.  sugar  1  tablespoon  molasses 
}i  lb.  butter  10  eggs 

2  lbs.  seeded  raisins,  cut  in  half  1  teaspoon  soda,  level 

1  lb.  Sultana  raisins  }4  lb.  citron 

2  lbs.  currants  1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and 
2  tablespoons  orange  juice,  or  any  split 

fruit  juice  1  lb.  figs 

1  tablespoon  ground  cloves  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon  1  tablespoon  ground  allspice 

Put  figs  and  citron  through  meat  chopper,  using  coarse 
cutter.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
spices,  milk,  soda  dissolved  in  the  molasses  and  the  fruit  dredg- 
ed with  part  of  the  flour.  Now  add  all  other  ingredients,  mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  well  greased  pan,  in  a  moderate  oven 
3  hours.  If  cake  is  steamed  for  half  the  time  and  finished  in 
the  oven,  it  is  likely  to  be  more  moist.  Stand  the  pans  in  vessels 
containing  water.  Candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  may  be 
added  if  desired,  and  almonds  may  be  shredded  if  preferred.  A 
perfectly  steady  heat  is  essential  to  success  in  baking  fruit  cake. 


Fruit  Cake  II. 

2  cups  flour  1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  cut  in  half 

1  cup  sugar  }4  lb.  currants 

%  lb  .butter  y£  lb.  conserved  cherries,  cut  in 

6  eggs  pieces 

}4  cup  water  yi  lb.  dates,  chopped  or  cut 

]/2  cup  orange  juice  or  fruit  juice  of  small 

any  kind  %  lb.  nuts,  broken  in  pieces 

1  teaspoon  ground  mace  yi,  lb.  citron,  grated 

1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon  Rind  1  orange,  grated 

1  lb.  Sultana  raisins  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Sift  flour,  reserve  yi  cup,  add  baking  powder  and  spices 
to  remainder  and  sift  again.  Beat  eggs  separately,  wash  fruit 
and  cut  as  directed,  after  drying  it  between  2  towels.  The 
nuts,  and  fruit  except  Sultanas,  may  be  put  through  the  meat 
chopper,  using  the  coarse  cutter.  Dredge  lightly  with  the 
t/2  cup  flour  and  mix  thoroughly.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  flour  and  liquid  alternately.  Now 
stir  in  the  fruit  and  nuts,  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped 
dry.  The  grated  orange  rind  should  be  stirred  into  the  orange 
juice.    Bake  as  directed  in  Fruit  Cake  I. 


256  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Gold  Cake  I. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  yi  cup  milk 

yi  cup  butter  J/&  cup  flour  sifted  with 

yi  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Orange  or  vanilla  flavoring 

Mix  according  to  directions  already  given,  and  bake  as  a 
loaf  cake,  or  omitting  the  flavoring  add  yi  cup  nuts  broken 
in  small  pieces  and  bake  in  gem  pans.  Or,  bake  in  gem  pans 
cover  with  a  white  icing  and  place  on  each  cake  half  an  English 
walnut. 

Gold  Cake  II. 

1  cup  butter  Yolks  of  4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

S}4  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  milk,  lastly  the 
flour  sifted  twice  with  the  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  bake  in  a  loaf.  Tee 
when  cold,  with  Orange  Icing. 

Silver  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar  Whites,  of  4  eggs,  whipped  stiff 
yi  cup  butter  >£  cup  water 

2  cups  flour  \y$  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  water  and  flour,  (sifted  with 
baking  powder),  alternately,  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs 
last.  Bake  in  a  loaf.  Before  adding  the  whites  of  eggs,  beat 
the  batter  thoroughly  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  rose  water. 
Ice  with  a  white  frosting.  This  cake  and  the  one  preceding 
it  are  old-fashioned  recipes,  and  it  was  the  custom  in  the  days 
of  my  grandmother  to  make  both  on  the  same  day,  and  alter- 
nate the  yellow  and  white  slices  in  the  cake  basket.  Of  course, 
it  has  been  necessary  to  bring  the  ingredients  and  directions 
for  mixing  "up  to  date." 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

Sift  together  three  times,  \l/2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  1  cup  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Break  2  large 
eggs  in   a   measuring  cup   (holding   ]/2   pint),   and  fill   the  cup 


CAKE  257 


with  thick  cream.  Pour  eggs  and  cream  into  the  flour  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Flavor  with  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon 
and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

Boston  Favorite  Cake. 

$i  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  3>^  cups  flour 

4  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  together,  milk 
and  flour  sifted  twice  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  loaves, 
or  in  gem  pans. — Miss  Farmar. 

Huckleberry  Cake. 

4  cups  flour,  sifted  with  1  cup  butter 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder             2  cups  sugar 

5  eggs  1}4  cups  milk 

yZ  teaspoon  cinnamon  yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  huckleberries 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  light,  milk,  and 

spices  and  flour.     Dredge  the  berries  well  with  flour  and  stir 

them  into  the  batter.     Bake  in  well  greased  gem  pans.    These 

cakes  are  best  when  24  hours  old. 

Angel  Cake. 

1  cup  egg  whites  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  extract  bitter  almond       1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

Put  salt  into  egg  whites  and  whip  until  perfectly  dry. 
Sift  the  flour  and  cream  tartar  together  4  times.  Sift  sugar 
3  times.  Fold  the  sugar  into  the  egg,  and  add  the  flour  care- 
fully, cutting  and  folding  until  mixed.  Bake  in  ungreased 
pan  with  a  tube  in  centre,  ^  hour,  or  until  a  broom  straw 
will  come  out  clean  from  the  centre.  The  oven  must  have  a 
steady  heat,  any  increase  or  decrease  of  heat  will  ruin  the 
cake.  When  done,  invert  pan  over  a  clean  towel,  until  the 
cake  drops  out.  Its  own  weight  will  elongate  the  air  cells, 
and  thus  increase  its  lightness.  When  the  cake  rises  to  its  full 
height  and  begins  to  brown,  cover  with  buttered  paper.  Angel 
Cake  and  all  fine  cakes  require  pastry  flour  to  make  them  per- 
fect. Swans  Down  flour  is  the  best,  and  a  trial  of  it  will  mean 
its  constant  use.     It  cannot  be  too  highly  recommended. 


258  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Gingerbread. 

1  cup  molasses  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with 

yi  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  ¥*  teaspoon  soda 

yi  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Mix  molasses  and  shortening,  add  spice  and  egg,  beaten, 
milk,  and  lastly  flour  and  soda.  Bake  in  sheet  not  more  than 
1  inch  thick.  The  molasses  and  shortening  will  mix  more 
readily  if  slightly  warmed,  and  then  beaten  with  a  Dover 
beater  or  cake  mixer  until  it  is  light  and  smooth.  Ginger- 
bread burns  easily.  It  is  wise  to  use  asbestos  mats  under- 
neath the  rack,  especially  in  a  gas  stove. 

Gingerbread  Without  Eggs. 

1  cup  molasses  3  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 
1  cup  brown  sugar  mixed,  or  Crisco 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  cups  flour,  sifted  1  teaspoon  ginger 

\yi  teaspoons  soda  >£  teaspoon  allspice 

Warm  molasses,  sugar  and  shortening,  beat  well,  then 
add  other  ingredients,  stirring  in  at  the  last,  the  soda  dis- 
solved in  3  tablespoons  hot  water.  This  is  an  easy  and  very 
satisfactory  recipe.  Follow  directions  given  for  baking  Ideal 
Gingerbread. 

Ideal  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  Crisco  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  ginger 

2  cups  molasses  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  molasses,  beat  the  eggs, 
and  add  to  milk;  combine  mixtures,  add  flour  sifted,  with 
spices,  lastly  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty  minutes  in  a  shallow  pan,  or  gem 
pans  thirty  minutes.     Do  not  remove  from  pan  until  cold. 

Raisin  Gingerbread. 

Mix  by  one  of  preceding  recipes,  adding  before  the  flour, 
y2  cup  seeded  raisins  cut  in  half.  Currants  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  raisins,  or  both,  if  desired.     It  will  not  be  necessary 


CAKE  fflO 

to  flour  the  fruit,  if  it  is  beaten  into  the  batter  before  the  flour 
goes  in. 

Washington  Pie. 

Use  recipe  for  Drexel  Layer  Cake  and  bake  in  deep  pans. 
When  cold  split  and  put  together  with 

Cream  Filling. 

2  eggs  */i  cup  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  Vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  together,  scald  milk,  add  slowly  to 
eggs  slightly  beaten  and  pour  over  dry  ingredients.  Add  salt. 
Cook  15  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens,  occasionally  afterwards.  1*4  squares  Baker's  choco- 
late may  be  added  if  desired.  Melt  over  hot  water,  add  1 
tablespoon  sugar  and  stir  into  the  custard.  Sift  powdered 
sugar  over  the  pie. 

Poverty  Cake. 

]4.  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

yi  cup  sugar  yi  cup  cold  water 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

\yi  cups  flour,  sifted 

Cream  molasses,  sugar  and  butter,  add  beaten  egg  and 
beat  thoroughly,  then  add  other  ingredients,  the  soda  last. 
Bake  in  shallow  pan  about  30  minutes.  And  Marion  Har- 
land  whose  recipe  this  is,  adds:  "Good  in  spite  of  its  name." 


Nuggets. 

%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Yolks  2  eggs 

StyZ  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  flour, 
sifted  with  baking  powder,  alternately  with  the  milk,  and  the 
lemon  juice  and  rind.  Bake  in  gem  pans,  in  a  hot  oven  20 
minutes,  or  until  they  shrink  from  the  pan.  Cover  with  Orange 
Icing. 


260  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Ginger  Gems. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  cups  molasses 

or  Crisco  1  cup  sour  milk 

y*  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  gi  nger 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  cups  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  eggs  separately,  dissolve  soda  in  1  tablespoon  hot 
water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  molasses,  milk  and  spices 
beat  thoroughly.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  and  half  the  flour,  fold  in 
the  whites,  add  soda,  sifted  with  the  remainder  of  flour.  Bake 
in  well  greased  gem  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  for  y2  hour.  If 
sour  milk  is  not  convenient,  sweet  may  be  used.  Cover  with 
boiled  Icing,  or  Chocolate  Icing. 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cakes. 

yi  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  cocoa  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

3  eggs  yi  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter,  add  cocoa  and  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten, 
sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  water.  Add  stiffly 
whipped  whites  of  eggs  alternately  with  flour  and  baking 
powder  sifted  together.  Bake  in  gem  pans  20  minutes — Miss 
Farmar. 

Sponge  Cakes. 

Make  by  recipe  for  sponge  cake  and  bake  in  gem  pans. 
Ice  half  with  Orange  Icing  and  the  rest  with  Chocolate  Icing. 

Spice  Cakes. 

Using  recipe  for  Quick  Cake,  omit  fruit  and  nutmeg.  Add 
1  teaspoon  ginger  and  %  teaspoon  cloves.  Bake  in  gem  pans 
and  cover  with  Chocolate  Icing. 

Cocoa  Buns. 

1  cup  butter  }4  cup  cocoa 
\y£  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  2  eggs 

1  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  and  the  cocoa. 
Mix  well,  add  milk  and  flour  alternately,  and  vanilla.     Bake 


CAKE  261 


in  well  greased  gem  pans.     These  may  be  iced  with  Choco- 
late Icing  and  half  an  English  walnut  placed  on  top. 

Derrys. 

14  cup  milk  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  black  walnut  meats,  chopped 

yi  cup  butter  x/i  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  and 
milk.  Put  raisins  and  nuts  through  meat  chopper,  and  stir 
into  the  batter.  Lastly  fold  in  the  flour  and  bake  in  gem  pans, 
well  greased.  When  cold,  cover  with  Orange  Icing,  using 
the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  I. 

Make  a  plain  layer  cake  and  bake  in  shallow  pans.  Wash 
and  cap  1  quart  berries,  mash  half  of  them,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  let  them  stand  1  hour.  If  the  cake  layers  are  very 
thin,  cover  each  with  the  mashed  berries  and  put  together  as 
layer  cake.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  brown  slightly. 
If  the  layers  of  cake  are  thick,  split  them,  spread  each  layer  with 
the  crushed  berries.  After  the  meringue  browns,  decorate 
the  cake  with  the  whole  berries  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  II. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  by  recipe  on  page  253,  and  bake 
in  a  ring  mould  or  turk's  head.  When  cold,  fill  the  centre 
with  alternate  layers  of  strawberries  and  sweetened  whipped 
cream,  and  arrange  a  ring,  outside  the  cake,  of  the  cream  dotted 
with  berries. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  III. 

Mix  2  cups  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der and  4  gratings  of  nutmeg,  sift  twice,  and  with  the  tips  of 
fingers,  work  in  yi  cup  butter  or  butter  substitute.  Beat  1 
egg  until  very  light,  and  add  y^  cup  milk.  Stir  this  into  the 
flour  mixture,  and  roll  out  on  a  well  floured  board.  Cut  with 
a  large  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle  straw- 
berries with  sugar  and  heat  through.    Mash  with  a  fork.    Split 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


each  short  cake  while  hot,  butter  it  and  spread  with  the  crush- 
ed berries  on  one  side,  covering  with  the  other.  Spread  a 
layer  of  the  berries  on  top,  and  serve  with  plenty  of  cream,  or 
with  whipped  cream  sauce.    These  should  be  served  hot. 

COOKIES  AND  JUMBLES. 
Molasses  Cookies. 

1  cup  molasses  2  cups  flour 

yi  cup  butter  substitute  yi  tablespoon  ginger 

yi  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  soda 

Heat  molasses  and  shortening  until  latter  is  melted,  add 
ginger  and  remove  from  fire.  Dissolve  soda  in  2  tablespoons 
hot  water,  stir  into  mixture.  Now  add  flour  and  salt  sifted, 
and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  into  a  shallow  pan  far  enough  apart 
to  allow  for  spreading.  This  recipe  makes  35  cookies.  Or, 
use  baking  sheets,  which  are  far  superior  to  pans  for  baking 
cookies,  etc.    Consult  time  table  for  baking  cookies  and  jumbles. 

Christmas  Cookies. 

]4  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

1  egg  XA  cup  of  milk 

S}4  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  beaten.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Add  alternately  with  milk.  Roll  out  and  cut. 
Put  two  together  with  the  following 

Mixture. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped         yi  cup  nuts  chopped 

}4  cup  water  1  teaspoon  flour,  mixed  with  raisins 

Cook  all  together  for  5  minutes  and  cool. 
Nuts  and  Raisins  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  >£  cup  sour  cream 
Xyi  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda,  level 

2  eggs  2K  cups  Quaker  Oats 
1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts  <L%  cups  flour 

1  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins  i  tablespoons  vanilla 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  eggs  unbeaten;  beat 
until  very  light,  using  the  cake  mixer  if  you  have  it.     Dissolve 


COOKIES  268 


the  soda  in  the  cream,  add  it  and  other  ingredients,  the 
nuts  and  raisins  before  the  flour.  Change  the  beater  for  the 
kneader  in  the  cake  mixer,  and  work  the  mixture  until  smooth. 
Drop,  by  the  half  teaspoonful,  on  to  baking  sheets  an  inch 
apart  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown;  it  should  take 
about  10  minutes. 

Minquedale  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter  3  eggs 

tyi  cups  sugar  1  cup  sour  cream 

7  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Sift  flour  and  cinnamon,  cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat 
eggs  very  light.  Dissolve  soda  in  cream  when  you  are  ready 
to  use  it,  not  before.  Add  eggs  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar, 
part  of  the  flour,  the  cream  and  soda,  and  then  the  remainder 
of  flour,  mixing  all  together  well.  Roll  out  dough  as  soft  as 
possible,  cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Sand  Tarts. 

1  cup  butter  Yolks  3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with 

2  tablespoons  milk  \}i  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  light,  milk 
and  flour  with  the  baking  powder.  This  should  be  stiff  enough 
to  roll  out,  but  as  there  is  a  great  difference  in  flour  it  may  be 
necessary  to  add  a  little  more.  Roll  thin,  cut  with  a  square 
cutter.  Before  cutting  out,  brush  over  with  the  beaten  white 
of  an  egg  and  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  the  coarser  the 
better.  On  each  cake  press  2  halves  of  almonds  previously 
blanched.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 


Peanut  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  peanuts,  crushed  in  meat 

\x/i  cups  powdered  sugar  chopper 

3  eggs  3  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  light,  then  flour 
and  peanuts  mixed  together.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  baking 
sheet  and  pat  with  the  hands  to  flatten  out.     Grate  a  little 


264  WHAT    AND     HOW 


nutmeg  on  each  cake  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Dough  should 
be  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  easily.  See  time  table  for  baking 
cookies. 

Almond  Rings. 

1  cup  butter  3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  4  cups  flour 

yi  lb.  almonds,  blanched         1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Cinnamon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  eggs,  reserving  the  whites 
of  2  of  them,  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  3  cups 
of  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder,  using  the  remainder  for 
rolling  out  the  cakes.  Fold  in  the  sifted  flour,  roll  out  very- 
thin,  and  cut  with  a  cruller  cutter  which  makes  the  rings. 
Brush  over  with  the  slightly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  put  three 
or  four  almond  halves  on  each  ring,  brush  again  with  egg  and 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  cinnamon;  bake  in  hot 
oven  10  minutes.  This  recipe  makes  about  130  rings.  Like 
crackers,  cookies  when  stale  may  be  freshened  if  put  for  a 
minute  or  two  into  the  oven.  Gather  up  the  small  circles 
and  roll  out  to  cut  again. 

Jackson  Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  sugar 

K  cup  milk  2  eggs 

5  cups  flour  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten,  milk  and  flour 
sifted  with  the  soda.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  Rose  Water  and 
X  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Roll  out  very  thin  and  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar.  Pat  the  sugar  in  with  the  rolling  pin. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Macaroons. 

Whites  3  eggs  ^  lb.  powdered  sugar 

>£  lb.  almond  paste 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  very  light  and  stiff, 
powder  the  almond  paste,  and  stir  into  the  mixture;  when 
smooth,  drop  on  to  baking  sheet,  or  buttered  paper.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  for  15  minutes.  Macaroon  powder  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  paste.  It  is  already  sweetened  and  requires  only 
to  be  mixed  with  the  egg  whites. 


COOKIES  265 


Boston  Cookies. 

%  lb.  butter  }4  cup  Sultana  raisins 

\yi  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  hot  water 

y2  teaspoon  salt  <&/i  cups  flour 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

]/2  cup  currants 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  fruit  and 
nuts.  Sift  flour,  cinnamon  and  salt,  and  beat  into  the  batter, 
lastly  add  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water.  Drop  by  tea- 
spoonful  on  to  baking  sheet,  allowing  room  to  spread.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cup  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  Crisco  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  Flour  enough  to  roll  out 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water 

Mix  until  too  stiff  for  spoon,  work  with  hands  until  smooth. 
Roll  out,  cut  and  bake  on  baking  sheet. 

Oatmeal  Wafers. 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  sugar  %x/l  cups  Quaker  Oats 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  Quaker  oats  mixed 
with  baking  powder.  The  mixture  will  appear  very  stiff,  but 
will  spread  in  the  baking.  Drop  by  the  half  teaspoon  on  baking 
sheet  2  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  10  minutes. 
Do  not  allow  them  to  become  too  brown,  and  remove  while 
hot,  with  a  broad  knife  or  cake  turner. 

Ringle  Roses. 

2  cups  sugar  Yolks  5  eggs  beaten  light 

6  tablespoons  butter  y^  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder       4  cups  pastry  flour 

Reserve  part  of  flour  for  rolling  out,  sift  remainder  with 
baking  powder.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs  and  milk, 
and  fold  in  the  flour.  Roll  out  very  thin  and  cut  with  a  scal- 
loped cutter.  Dip  the  butter  brush  into  cold  water,  touch  the 
centre  of  each  cake  with  it,  and  sprinkle  the  wet  place  with 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


cinnamon    and    granulated    sugar    mixed    together.      Bake    15 

minutes,  or  until  done,  in  moderate  oven      Use  the  whites  of 

eggs  for  White  Mountain  cake,  or  meringues  for  pudding  or 

custard. 

Brandywine  Cookies. 

From  a  recipe  book  over  100  years  old. 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  sugar 

8  eggs  2  cups  flour 

}4  teaspoon  baking  powder         1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  light,  flour, 
baking  powder,  and  nutmeg  sifted  together.  Roll  out,  cut  and 
bake  as  other  cookies.  You  may  need  more  flour,  but  keep 
dough  soft.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  original  of  this  recipe 
did  not  call  for  baking  powder.    In  those  days  they  used  potash. 

Soft  Ginger  Cakes. 

$4  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Y*,  cup  Crisco  2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  milk  1}4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  vinegar  1  teaspoon  soda 

Dissolve  soda  in  vinegar.  Cream  sugar  and  Crisco,  add 
all  other  ingredients,  the  soda  last,  and  beat  hard.  Drop  from 
a  spoon  on  a  baking  sheet,  allowing  plenty  of  room  to  spread. 

Scotch  Cakes. 

}4  cup  Crisco  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  molasses  ]/i  teaspoon  allspice 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  \}4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  (level)  soda 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar.  Sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Add 
molasses  to  Crisco  and  sugar,  dry  ingredients  last.  Drop  from 
a  spoon  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Allow 
plenty  of  room  for  spreading. 


267 


CHAPTER  XXIII 


ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 
Cocoa  Icing. 

4  tablespoons  Hershey's  Cocoa  1  lb.  Confectioner's  sugar 

1  teaspoon  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Make  a  paste  of  cocoa,  wet  with  boiling  water,  add  sugar, 
butter  and  vanilla. 

Orange  Icing. 

To  the  juice  of  an  orange,  add  enough  confectioner's 
sugar  to  make  it  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  It  should 
be  thick  enough  to  spread  without  running,  but  not  so  thick 
as  to  be  sugary.  Confectioner's  sugar  is  XXXX,  powdered 
sugar  is   XXX. 

Boiled  Icing. 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  sugar  and  ]/2  cup  water,  boiled 
without  stirring  until  it  threads.  Pour  gradually  over  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  continue  beating  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
add  juice  of  ]/2  lemon,  yi  teaspoon  vanilla  or  y^  teaspoon  bitter 
almond  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  without  running. 
If  it  is  too  thin  after  it  is  cold,  set  the  bowl  over  boiling  water 
on  the  stove  and  beat  constantly  until  it  thickens. 

Chocolate  Icing  I. 

Make  according  to  recipe  for  Boiled  Icing,  adding  \}4 
squares  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water. 

Chocolate  Icing  II. 

Melt  4  squares  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add  2  table- 
spoons milk  and  stir.  Beat  1  egg  and  1  cup  sugar  together, 
add  to  the  chocolate  and  stir  until  sugar  is  melted.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. 

Maple  Sugar  Icing. 

Make  Boiled  Icing,  flavor  with  Mapleine. 


268  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Coffee  Icing. 

Flavor  Boiled  Icing  with  strong  coffee  infusion,  reducing 
quantity  of  water.  Use  X  cup  of  each,  and  cook  with  the 
sugar. 

Chocolate  Filling  I. 

2  squares  chocolate  8  tablespoons  hot  water 

}4  teaspoon  butter  Confectioner's  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt   chocolate   over   hot  water,   add   butter   and  water, 

remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  confectioner's  sugar  until  it  is 

thick  enough  to   spread;   flavor,   put  between  layers   and  on 

top  of  cake. 

Pink  Icing. 

2  tablespoons  hot  water  Confectioner's  sugar 

Rose  water,  or  vanilla  Pink  sugar 

Stir  into  the  water  enough  white  sugar  to  thicken  slight- 
ly; add  pink  sugar  and  white  alternately  until  the  color  is 
satisfactory  and  the  icing  a  thick  paste.  Flavor.  Pink  sugar 
may  be  purchased  at  a  confectioner's. 

Plain  White  Icing. 

Make  according  to  preceding  recipe,  using  only  white 
sugar. 

Tutti  Fruitti  Filling. 

4  tablespoons  water  X  CUP  currants,  chopped 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  chopped  lemon  peel, 

White  1  egg  candied 

yi  cup  nuts,  chopped  1  teaspoon  chopped  orange  peel, 

]4  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped  candied 

1  tablespoon  chopped  citron 

Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a 
thread,  pour  it  over  the  beaten  egg  white,  adding  gradually 
and  beating  constantly.  Have  fruit  and  nuts  well  mixed,  and 
stir  into  the  creamy  mixture.  Spread  between  layers  of  cake 
and  over  the  top. 

Orange  Filling. 

Whites  1  eggs  1  cup  confectioner's  sugar  XXXX. 

Juice  1  orange  and  }4  the  peel  grated 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  dry,  adding  the  sugar  gradually 
while  beating;  add  juice  and  grated  peel.  When  soft  and 
creamy  spread  between  layers  of  cake  and  over  the  top. 


269 


CHAPTER  XXIV 

CANDY. 

Years  ago  two  books  were  published  that  were  invaluable 
authority  each  upon  its  own  subject. 

Catherine  Owens  was  the  author,  and  her  name  deserves 
to  live  through  at  least  another  generation  for  her  "Ten  Dol- 
lars Enough"  and  her  "Lessons  in  Candy  Making."  The 
problem  of  living  on  ten  dollars  a  week  was  very  success- 
fully solved  by  the  young  married  couple  to  whom  we  are 
introduced,  and  many  of  the  recipes  in  "What  and  How"  that 
have  been  in  constant  use  in  my  classes  and  my  own  home 
are  taken  from  that  little  book.  There  has  never  been  writ- 
ten anything  upon  candy  making  to  equal  Catherine  Owens' 
directions,  and  if  the  book  is  not  out  of  print,  I  would  sug- 
gest that  every  one  interested  in  the  subject  should  own  a  copy 

• 

Fondant. 

1  pint  of  sugar  1  cup  water 

Boil  without  stirring  until  a  thread  spins  from  a  fork, 
then  try  a  little  in  cold-water,  if  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when 
rolled  together,  remove  from  fire.  When  cool  enough  to  handle 
stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  wooden  spatula  until  it  is  too  stiff 
to  work,  then  take  your  hands  and  knead  like  bread  dough. 
This  makes  a  small  quantity  and  is  intended  for  the  trial  of  a 
novice.  An  experienced  candy  maker  may  use  three  times  the 
recipe  given,  adding  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  to  prevent 
granulating  of  the  sugar.  Fondant  will  keep  a  long  time,  if 
covered  with  waxed  paper  to  exclude  the  air.  It  is  the  founda- 
tion, as  its  name  implies,  of  all  cream  candies,  and  is  to  be 
flavored  as  needed. 

Maple  Fondant. 

Flavor  fondant  with  Mapleine,  a  drop  at  a  time,  until  it 
tastes  just  right.  Add  flavoring  when  beginning  to  stir  with 
spatula. 


S70  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Coffee  Fondant. 

Make  very  strong  coffee  infusion  to  flavor  fondant  as 
described;  avoid  adding  much  liquid  of  any  kind. 

Colored  Fondant. 

Color  fondant  either  red  or  green  with  few  drops  coloring 
liquid  purchased  from  a  reliable  druggist 

Cream  Mints. 

Melt  fondant  over  water,  flavor  with  oil  of  peppermint. 
It  is  very  strong,  use  it  cautiously.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on 
tin  baking  sheet;  if  it  is  waxed  for  baking,  the  mints  will  not 
stick.  If  a  dish  is  used,  it  must  have  a  sheet  of  waxed  paper 
spread  smoothly  over  it. 

Mint  Marshmallows. 

1  tablespoons  hot  water  Confectioner's  sugar 

Spearmint  water  Green  coloring 

Stir  into  the  hot  water  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to 
make  a  paste  as  for  icing.  Flavor  to  taste  with  spearmint 
water  and  color  a  pale  green  color.  Cover  marshmallows  with 
this  icing. 

Peppermint  Drops. 

Melt  3  cups  fine  granulated  sugar  with  just  enough  water 
to  moisten  it.  Boil  5  minutes,  add  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 
tar, remove  from  fire  and  beat  hard.  Add  while  beating  % 
teaspoon  oil  of  peppermint,  and  continue  beating  until  it 
whitens.  Drop  quickly  on  the  baking  sheet.  It  will  be  neces- 
sary to  have  some  one  help  in  the  dropping,  so  that  it  may 
be  accomplished  before  the  mixture  hardens.  Should  it  do  so 
before  it  is  all  dropped,  add  a  little  water  and  boil  1  minute. 
Beat  as  before,  and  continue  the  dropping.  — "White  House 
Cook  Book." 

Uncooked  Fondant. 

Stir  into  the  unbeaten  white  of  1  egg  mixed  with  1  table- 
spoon cold  water,  enough  confectioner's  sugar  (XXXX)  to 
stiffen  sufficiently  to  be  shaped  by  the  hands.  Flavor  with 
vanilla,  coffee,  Mapleine,  or  extract  bitter  almond. 


CANDY  271 


Cream  Walnuts. 

Roll  a  ball  of  uncooked  fondant,  and  press  on  each  side, 
a  half  English  walnut.  Press  together  until  a  ring  of  fondant 
surrounds  the  walnuts. 

Nut  Creams. 

While  adding  the  sugar  to  the  egg  for  Uncooked  Fon- 
dant, add  chopped  nuts,  cocoanut  grated,  or  chopped  citron, 
and  shape  into  balls  or  squares. 

Pink  Fondant. 

Procure  a  small  quantity  of  pink  sugar  and  use  enough 
to  color  the  fondant  a  good  shade  of  pink.  This  is  pretty 
with  cocoanut  stirred  in  and  rolled  into  balls. 

Date  Creams  I. 

Remove  the  stones  from  well  washed  dates,  and  replace 
with  a  ball  of  fondant.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar.  Use  fon- 
dant either  cooked  or  uncooked. 

Date  Creams  II. 

Wash  dates,  remove  stones  and  dry  between  two  towels. 
Cover  blanched  almonds  with  fondant,  put  into  the  dates  and 
roll  in  granulated  sugar.  Peanuts,  pecans  or  chestnuts  may 
be  used  instead  of  almonds,  and  the  fondant  may  be  varied 
in  color  and  flavoring. 

Vinegar  Candy. 

3  cups  white  sugar  \}4  cups  clear  vinegar 

Mix  sugar  and  vinegar,  heat  slowly  to  the  boil,  and  cook 
steadily  but  not  too  fast  until  it  ropes  from  the  spoon.  This 
is  just  2  degrees  hotter  than  the  thread.  Turn  out  on  large 
plates  well  buttered.  When  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull 
it  with  the  tips  of  your  fingers.  It  can  be  pulled  into  beauti- 
ful white  and  porous  candy.  This  recipe  came  from  a  very 
old  book  of  Marion  Harland's.  She  adds  to  the  recipe :  "Those 
who  have  read  Sophie  May's  delightful  'Little  Prudy"  and 
'Dottie  Dimple'  stories  will  remember  this  famous  vinegar 
candy." 


%t%  WHATANDHOW 


Taffy. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  and  water  together  until  sugar  dissolves. 
Add  cream  of  tartar,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  continue 
to  boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Re- 
move from  fire,  add  flavoring,  and  turn  into  greased  pans. 
Mark  into  squares  as  it  cools.     The  thinner  it  is,  the  better. 

Butter  Scotch. 

1  cup  brown  sugar  %  lb.  butter 

y£  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Boil  10  minutes  or  until  it  will  crisp  when  a  little  is  drop- 
ped into  cold  water.     Pour  into  well-greased  pans  to  cool. 

Molasses  Taffy. 

Boil  2  cups  molasses  20  minutes,  add  yi  teaspoon  soda 
and  boil  15  minutes  longer,  or  until  a  little  dropped  into  cold 
water  will  harden.  Stir  constantly,  as  it  will  burn  easily.  Add 
1  teaspoon  vinegar  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes  to  harden. 

Peanut  Brittle. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  peanuts 

Shell  1  quart  peanuts,  and  put  through  the  meat  chopper. 
Put  the  sugar  into  an  iron  or  aluminum  frying  pan,  and  stir 
until  it  melts  into  a  syrup.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  nuts 
and  pour  at  once  on  a  baking  sheet,  just  as  thin  a  layer  as 
you  can  make  it.  Do  not  cook  the  sugar  an  instant  after  it 
melts,  or  it  will  granulate.  Do  not  be  discouraged  if  the  sugar 
looks  lumpy  during  the  process  of  melting.  It  will  come  out 
all  right.  Do  not  attempt  to  make  more  than  this  quantity 
at  a  time.  If  more  is  desired,  start  over  again  for  a  second  lot. 

Nut  Molasses  Candy. 

Use  recipe  for  molasses  taffy;  when  taffy  is  done,  take 
from  the  stove,  stir  in  peanuts  whole  or  in ,  halves,  chopped 
walnuts  or  any  nuts  you  wish.  Put  on  baking  sheet  and  mark 
into  squares  before  it  gets  cold. 


CANDY  >?S 


Candied  Almonds. 

Blanch  desired  quantity  of  almonds  (see  Chapter  1). 
Boil  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  X  cup  water  together  until  it 
spins  a  thread.  Wipe  almonds  dry  between  two  towels,  and 
brown  them,  a  few  at  a  time  in  the  syrup.  Serve  as  candy  at 
luncheon  or  dinner. 

Fudge  I. 

4  cups  sugar  2  cups  milk 

6  tablespoons  cocoa  20  marshmallows 

Boil  first  three  ingredients  until  a  soft  ball  forms  when  a 
little  is  dropped  into  cold  water.  Add  marshmallows  and  re- 
move from  stove.  Beat  until  cold,  pour  into  buttered  tins  and 
mark  in  squares  before  it  hardens. 

Fudge  II. 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  yi  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  lb.  chocolate 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Use  a  pan  with  a  flat  bottom,  in  order  to  have  a  large 
surface  exposed  to  the  heat,  and  to  avoid  depth  of  material 
to  be  cooked.  This  is  of  great  advantage  in  the  making  of 
candy. 

Break  chocolate  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  all  ingred- 
ients except  vanilla.  Boil,  stirring  constantly  until  a  little 
dropped  into  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  cool  and  granular  around  the 
edge  of  pan.  Pour  into  buttered  tins  before  it  hardens  too 
much  to  smooth  over,  and  mark  into  squares. 

If  fudge  is  cooked  too  long  it  will  be  too  stiff;  remove 
from  fire  as  soon  as  the  ball  will  hold  together  in  the  water; 
a  wooden  spoon  is  the  best  beater  for  it.  If  beaten  too  long, 
it  will  not  be  glazed  nor  have  a  smooth  surface. 

Bryn  Mawr  Penutchie. 

4  cups  brown  sugar  %  lb.  pecan  nuts 

1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

Shell  the  nuts,  there  should  be  1  cup.  Melt  the  sugar 
and  butter  in  the  milk,  stirring  until  sugar  is  dissolved.     Boil, 


274  WHATANDHOW 


without  stirring,  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Add  the  nuts,  broken  into  pieces,  and  stir 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  greased  tins  and  mark 
into  squares  with  a  knife. 

Maple  Penutchie. 

Follow  preceding  recipe,  substituting  for  the  pecans,  1 
cup  English  or  black  walnut  meats,  and  flavoring  with  Maple- 
ine. 

Pecan  Pralines. 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

yi  lb.  pecan  meats,  broken  into  bits     4  tablespoons  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Do 
not  stir  while  boiling ;  add  nuts  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken 
and  turn  sugary.  Turn  out  on  buttered  plates.  One  pound 
nuts  in  the  shell  will  make  y2  pound  when  shelled. — "Picayune 
Cook  Book." 

Tic-Tac. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  3  tablespoons  water 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  quarts  popped  corn 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  butter  together,  until  it  ropes  from 
the  spoon;  add  the  popcorn  and  stir  until  every  kernel  is  coated 
with  the  syrup.  Continue  stirring  until  it  cools.  Make  into 
balls  before  the  syrup  hardens,  or  if  you  choose,  into  squares 
or  bars.     Wrap  in  paraffine  paper. 

Caramels. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  )/$  pound  chocolate 

1   cup  milk  or  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  together,  stirring  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Grate  chocolate,  or  shave  it  down  with  a  knife,  add 
to  boiling  mixture  and  stir  constantly  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  into  greased  pans 
to  harden.  This  is  the  "fudge"  of  a  generation  ago,  and  may 
be  familiar  to  the  mothers  of  the  college  girls  of  today. 


275 


CHAPTER  XXV 


CHAFING  DISH. 
Sauce. 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

]/2  tablespoon  lemon  juice  %  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet 

Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  cream,  fol- 
lowing directions  given  in  Chapter  IX. 

Reserve  part  of  the  cream  to  rub  with  the  eggs  into  a 
smooth  paste;  add  this  to  the  sauce  with  the  seasonings. 
This  makes  an  admirable  sauce  for  use  in  preparing  fish, 
chicken,  potatoes,  cheese,  etc.,  in  the  chafing  dish.  The  yolks 
must  be  absolutely  smooth,  the  smallest  lump  will  detract 
from  the  delicacy  of  the  sauce. 

A  knowledge  of  sauces,  their  preparation  and  seasoning 
is  quite  essential  to  successful  chafing  dish  cookery.  An- 
other important  point  is  to  have  everything  ready  to  work 
with,  measured  so  far  as  possible,  so  that  the  operation  may 
be  expeditious.  Many  chafing  dish  parties  have  become  more 
tedious  than  enjoyable  on  account  of  slow  cookery  caused  by 
a  lack  of  intelligent  planning.  One  word  of  warning:  If  the 
spirit  lamp  should  flare  up  and  catch  fire,  use  flour,  which 
you  would  probably  have  close  at  hand,  to  smother  the  flame. 
On  no  account  should  you  use  water,  which  tends  to  spread 
the  fire. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

Open  a  small  can  of  Richardson  and  Robbins'  boned 
chicken,  separate  the  pieces  and  cut  into  neat  dice  or  strips. 
Do  this  an  hour  or  more  before  you  intend  to  use  it.  Make  the 
chafing  dish  sauce  as  directed  above,  stir  the  chicken  into  it  and 
cook  just  long  enough  to  heat  thoroughly.  Do  not  spoil  the  dish 
by  long  cooking. 

Creamed  Lobster. 

Open  a  can  of  lobster  and  allow  it  to  aerate  as  described 
for  the  chicken.    Proceed  according  to  preceding  rcipe. 


276  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Oysters,  crab  meat,  cold  boiled  fish,  hard  boiled  eggs  in 
slices  or  chopped,  mushrooms  (canned),  shrimp,  or  fish  roe, 
all  may  be  served  from  the  chafing  dish,  with  this  sauce  or 
any  other  good  sauce;  a  suggestion  for  Thursday  night  supper. 
The  maid  might  leave  everything  ready  before  she  goes  out. 

Welsh  Rabbit  I. 

1  lb.  cheese,  cut  in  small  pieces  yi  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1  cup  milk  sauce 

yi  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  tomato  catsup 

4  slices  toast  ^  teaspoon  paprika 

yi  teaspoon  mustard 

Melt  butter,  add  cheese,  and  when  melted,  the  milk. 
Have  all  the  seasonings  mixed  in  a  cup  and  stir  in.  Do  not 
cook  too  long  or  cheese  will  become  stringy.     Serve  on  toast. 

Welsh  Rabbit  II. 

yi  tablespoon  butter  yi  teaspoon  mustard 

yi  lb.  cheese,  cut  in  small  pieces  Dash  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  corn  starch  J^"  cup  milk 

Melt  the  butter,  add  corn  starch  and  stir  until  well  mixed, 
then  add  milk,  stir  vigorously  and  cook  2  minutes.  Add  cheese, 
and  stir  until  it  melts.  Add  seasonings  and  serve  on  crisp 
crackers. 

English  Monkey. 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  yi  cup  cheese,  cut  small 

1  cup  milk  1  egg 

yi  tablespoon  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne 

Soak  crumbs  in  the  milk  15  minutes.  Melt  butter,  add 
cheese  and  stir  until  it  is  melted.  Add  soaked  crumbs,  sea- 
sonings and  egg  slightly  beaten.  Cook  3  minutes,  and  pour 
over  toasted  crackers. — Miss  Far  mar. 

Scotch  Woodcock. 

4  eggs,  hard  boiled  and  chopped  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk  Salt 

\yi  tablespoons  butter  Dash  cayenne 

Anchovy  essence  or  paste 

Chop  eggs.  Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk. 
Add  seasonings  and  eggs.  If  anchovy  is  not  liked,  use  1  tea- 
spoon Worcestershire  sauce.     Serve  on  crackers. 


CHAFING     DISH  277 


Angel  Dreams. 

2  tablespoons  butter  French  mustard 

6  slices  bread,  1  inch  wide  and  K  lb.  cheese,  cut  in  very  thin 

3  inches  long  slices 

Cayenne 

Spread  the  bread  very  sparingly  with  mustard,  cover  with 
cheese  slices,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Melt 
the  butter  and  when  boiling,  lay  the  bread  in  it,  fry  until  bread 
is  crisp  and  cheese  melted.  Of  course  the  cheese  side  of  the 
bread  is  up. 

Sardines  Grilled. 

Use  the  boned  and  skinned  sardines  if  possible.  They 
are  expensive,  but  much  more  dainty  and  delicate.  Fry  in 
a  small  quantity  of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Or, 
they  may  be  grilled  (or  fried)  in  their  own  oil.  Serve  onjiarrow 
strips  of  toast  the  length  of  the  sardine. 

Suggestions  for  Chafing  Dish. 

Scattered  all  through  this  book  will  be  found  recipes 
suitable  for  chafing  dish  cookery,  and  a  list  of  these  is  ap- 
pended. It  is  offered  as  a  convenience  and  suggestion,  and 
the  writer  hopes  will  prove  useful  as  such. 


Fish. 


Lobster  a  la  Newburg  Oysters,  creamed 

Crab  a  la  Newburg  Oysters,  stewed 

Smelts,  fried  Oysters,  panned 

Fish  roe  Clams,  minced  in  chafing  dish 

Salmon,  creamed  sauce 

Soft  shell  crabs  Terrapin 


Eggs. 


Scrambled  A  la  Newburg 

Fried  Club 

Fried  with  bacon  Spanish 
Omelets 


Meat. 


Chipped  ham,  cream  gravy  Veal,  cream  mince 

Frizzled  beef  Kidneys,  lamb 

Chicken,  creamed  Sweet  breads 

Turkey  mince  Calf's  liver  and  bacon 

Chicken  livers  Liver  terrapin 


278 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


Potatoes. 


Creamed 
Lyonnaise 


Omelet 

In  chafing  dish  sauce 


Peas. 


With  cream  sauce 


Corn, 


Stewed 


Fried 


Miscellaneous. 


Spanish  tomatoes 
Mushrooms,  canned 
Mushrooms,  fresh 


Celery  toast 
Tomato  toast 
Cream  toast 


379 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

FRUIT,  FRESH,  PRESERVED  AND  CANNED. 

In  spite  of  advice  from  many  quarters  against  washing 
berries  before  serving,  no  one,  unless  she  picks  her  own  fruit 
or  sees  that  it  is  gathered  by  clean  fingers,  would  care  to  eat 
it  unwashed.  The  flavor  may  be  impaired,  as  we  are  told 
it  is,  but  better  that  than  unclean  fruit.  Wash  berries,  a  few 
at  a  time,  drain  in  a  colander  and  serve  very  cold.  Berries 
may  be  put  into  air-tight  jars,  the  lids  screwed  tightly  on  and 
kept  for  several  days  in  the  refrigerator.  Do  not  wash  these 
until  ready  for  use.  Even  the  raspberry,  which  so  easily 
moulds,  will  be  perfectly  fresh  after  two  days  in  the  jar.  Fruit 
that  discolors  by  contact  with  the  air  after  cutting,  especially 
peaches,  will  keep  a  good  color,  if  the  dish  containing  them  be 
placed  in  the  refrigerator,  and  covered  with  a  napkin  wrung 
out  of  cold  water. 

Bananas. 

Peel  and  slice.     Put  in  layers  in  a  glass  dish,  with  a  light 
sprinkling  of  sugar  and  yi.  teaspoon  lime  juice  between  each 
layer.     Cover  with  a  wet  napkin  and  chill  for  several  hours  in 
the  refrigerator.     Lemon  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  lime 
juice,  but  the  latter  gives  a  very  distinctive  flavor. 

Berries. 

Do  not  sugar  these  in  the  dish,  pass  sugar  with  them. 
Large  strawberries  may  be  served,  unhulled,  arranged  around 
a  little  mound  of  sugar  on  each  plate. 

Cantelopes. 

Keep  these  for  hours  in  the  ice  chest  before  serving.  Ice 
may  be  served  with  them.,  but  injures  the  flavor.  Instead  of 
the  old  way  of  cutting  down  through  the  cantelope,  cut  in  half 
crosswise.  If  used  for  breakfast  and  kept  over  night  in  the  ice 
chest,  they  will  be  thoroughly  chilled.  Do  not  cut  until  ready 
to  serve.  Larger  muskmelons  should  be  sliced,  and  one  slice 
served  to  each  person. 


280  WHATANDHOW 


Oranges. 

Oranges  may  be  served  whole,  allowing  each  person  to 
follow  individual  tastes  in  the  eating;  the  daintiest  way  per- 
haps is  to  cut  the  orange  in  half  crosswise,  and  the  pulp  in 
sections  from  the  tough  dividing  lines,  remove  the  latter, 
and  return  pulp  and  juice  to  the  cup,  each  orange  thus  serving 
two  persons,  or  both  halves  may  be  served  on  each  plate  if 
orange  is  small.  Or,  orange  may  be  peeled  whole,  divided  into 
sections,  white  skin  and  seeds  removed,  and  the  sections 
arranged  around  a  mound  of  sugar  on  the  plate. 

Grape  Fruit. 

Cut  fruit  in  half  crosswise;  separate  pulp  from  skin  around 
the  circumference;  with  the  scissors,  cut  the  tough  portion 
from  each  end,  lift  out  the  tough  part,  sprinkle  the  pulp  with  a 
generous  amount  of  sugar,  and  serve  very  cold.  This  fruit,  like 
cantelopes,  may  be  kept  over  night  in  the  ice  chest,  which  is 
better  than  putting  ice  on  it  after  it  is  cut,  or  serve  on  crushed 
ice.     It  may  be  flavored,  if  desired,  with  sherry. 

Peaches  with  Whipped  Cream. 

Select  very  large,  well  flavored  peaches,  cut  in  half,  re- 
move stones,  and  chill  in  ice  chest  for  several  hours,  remem- 
bering to  cover  them  with  a  damp  cloth.  Serve,  filled  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  a  few  drops 
extract  of  bitter  almond.  A  glaced  cherry  or  a  maraschino 
cherry  may  be  used  as  a  decoration. 

Cherries, 

should  be  served  with  stems  on,  in  a  glass  dish  with  cracked  ice. 

Pears  and  Plums, 

should  be  washed  and  wiped  dry      Serve  very  cold.     Grape 
leaves  in  the  bowl  or  dish  are  a  good  decoration. 

Grapes. 

Wash  well  and  shake  dry.  Serve  in  glass  bowl  with  grape 
leaves. 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  281 


A  Dish  of  Fruit, 

is  improved  in  appearance  if  an  orange  or  two  have  the  peel 
cut  down  half  way  in  sections  and  the  points  turned  in. 
Bananas  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way.  Always  polish  the 
skins  of  apples,  pears  and  plums,  and  decorate  the  bowl  or 
dish  with  grape  leaves  or  fresh  green  leaves  of  any  kind. 

Fruit  Compotes. 

Compotes  are  cooked  fruits  with  syrup  poured  over 
them,  this  syrup  having  been  cooked  long  enough  after  the 
fruit  has  been  removed,  to  form  a  jelly  as  it  cools.  With 
care  to  keep  the  fruit  of  a  good  color  and  some  little  ingen- 
uity used  in  combinations  and  decorations,  compotes  are  a 
delight  to  the  eye  as  well  as  to  the  palate.  When  paring  the 
fruit,  drop  it  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration,  do  not 
put  too  many  pieces  into  the  syrup  at  one  time;  watch  care- 
fully and  remove  with  a  skimmer  the  instant  the  pieces  are 
tender,  and  discard  any  pieces  that  may  become  broken  or 
shapeless.  These  may  be  used,  of  course,  but  not  in  the  com- 
pote. With  these  rules  in  mind,  a  successful  compote  is  easy 
of  accomplishment. 

Syrup  for  Compotes. 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  water 

Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  drop  in  the  fruit,  cook 
it  until  easily  pierced  writh  a  wooden  toothpick.  Remove  to 
the  dish  and  let  the  syrup  boil  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Use 
flavoring  and  coloring  according  to  the  recipes,  and  strain 
through  cheese  cloth  or  very  fine  hair  sieve.  Let  the  syrup 
boil  steadily,  but  not  too  hard. 

Compote  of  Apples. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter,  ripe  apples  of  good  quality;  or 
they  may  be  cooked  whole  if  not  too  large.  Make  enough 
syrup  to  cover  the  apples  and  cook  them  in  it  as  described 
above.  When  the  syrup  is  ready  to  strain,  add  a  fewr  drops 
of  red  coloring  and  pour  it  through  the  strainer,  over  the  fruit. 


282  WHAT    AND     HOW 


Compote  of  Whole  Apples. 

If  apples  are  cooked  whole,  fill  the  cavities  left  by  the 
removal  of  the  core,  with  jelly  or  orange  marmalade  before 
pouring  the  syrup  over  them.  Serve  with  cream,  plain  or 
whipped. 

Slices  of  Lemon, 
cut  as  thin  as  paper,  may  be  cooked  in  the  syrup  after  the 
apples  are  removed;  when  clear,  skim  out,  arrange  among 
the  apples  and  add  the  syrup.  This  is  a  decoration  as  well 
as  a  flavoring,  and  is  to  be  used  in  the  first  recipe  where  the 
apples  are  cut. 

Green  Gages. 

Wash  and  prick  each  plum  three  times.  Simmer  in  the 
syrup  until  tender,  and  color  the  syrup  with  a  few  drops  green 
coloring. 

Compote  of  Peaches. 
Pare,  stone,  cut  in  half  or  in  slices,  and  follow  directions 
in   preceding  recipes.     Flavor  syrup   with   a  few  drops  bitter 
almond   extract,  adding  it  carefully  that  the  flavor  may  not 
be  too  strong. 

Compote  of  Pears. 

Pare  and  cut  in  half  Bartlett  or  some  equally  well 
flavored  pears.  Cook  in  the  syrup  until  tender;  remove  with 
a  skimmer.  Add  to  the  syrup  a  piece  of  green  ginger  root, 
and  allow  it  to  cook  until  the  syrup  is  well  flavored.  If  pears 
are  not  ripe  cook  until  tender  in  water,  before  cooking  in  the 
syrup. 

Compote  of  Pineapple. 

Drain  the  syrup  from  1  can  sliced  Hawaiian  pineapple, 
add  enough  water  to  make  1  cup,  add  equal  quantity  of  sugar 
and  simmer  until  it  threads.  Put  a  slice  on  each  serving  plate, 
pour  syrup  over  it;  when  cool  and  ready  to  serve,  put  a  mound 
of  whipped  cream  in  the  centre  of  each  slice,  and  sprinkle  over 
it  crushed  macaroons.  Top  off  with  a  maraschino  or  candied 
cherry.    With  this  pass  a  plate  of  macaroons. 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  28S 

Compote  of  Fruit,  with  Rice. 

Wash  ^3  cup  of  rice  and  steam  in  double  boiler  with  1 
cup  boiling  water.  When  rice  has  absorbed  the  water,  add 
1^2  cups  hot  milk,  X  cup  sugar,  and  ]/2  teaspoon  salt;  cook 
until  rice  is  soft.  Butter  a  shallow  bowl,  and  press  the  rice 
into  it  to  shape  in  a  mound,  not  too  high.  A  small  ring  mould 
is  good  for  this  purpose.  Turn  out  on  a  dish,  arrange  a  peach 
compote  in  the  centre  if  a  ring  mould  was  used;  if  not,  stand 
the  peaches  around  the  base  of  the  mound  and  pour  syrup  over 
all.  Any  fruit  compote  may  be  used  with  the  rice,  and  if  the 
syrup  be  colored,  it  enhances  the  appearance  of  the  dish.  Whip- 
ped cream  may  be  piled  in  the  centre  of  the  ring  and  the  fruit 
arranged   outside. 

Baked  Apples  I. 

When  apples  are  at  their  best,  in  the  fall  and  winter, 
they  need  no  flavoring  when  cooked,  but  in  the  spring  they 
are  tasteless  and  require  cinnamon,  nutmeg  or  lemon  juice 
in  addition  to  the  sugar.  Remove  core,  pushing  the  corer 
through  from  the  blossom  end  which  gives  you  the  stem  to  pull 
it  out  with,  fill  cavity  with  sugar,  add  a  small  quantity  of 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  baking  dish  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender,  basting  frequently  with  the 
syrup  in  the  dish.  Apples  may  be  baked  with  skins  on.  or 
without  skins  if  desired.  In  the  latter  case,  if  brown  sugar 
and  a  little  molasses  be  used  to  sweeten,  the  apples  will  have 
a  glaze  when  baked,  provided  they  are  basted  with  the  syrup 
frequently. 

Baked  Apples  II. 

Peel,  quarter  and  remove  seeds  and  core.  Arrange  on  a 
pie  plate,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  add  very  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
sprinkle  with  water  and  bake  as  directed  above. 

Baked  Apples  III. 

Select  large  apples  and  bake  in  round  ramekins.  Serve  in 
ramekins 

Stewed  Apples. 

Peel,  cut  into  quarters  and  remove  seeds.  Put  into  sauce- 
pan, with  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  until 


284  WHATANDHOW 


they  are  tender,  testing  with  wooden  toothpick.  Remove  with 
a  skimmer,  add  a  cup  of  sugar  to  the  water  (of  the  latter  there 
should  be  1^2  cups),  boil  20  minutes,  pour  over  the  apples  and 
serve  very  cold.    Flavor  with  lemon  juice. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Wash  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  rejecting  any  defective 
parts.  Cook  until  tender  in  just  enough  water  to  keep  them 
from  burning.  When  boiled  to  a  mush,  rub  through  a  colan- 
der, sweeten,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  A  few 
drops  lemon  juice  and  a  grating  or  two  of  lemon  peel  make  a 
good  flavoring,  used  in  conjunction  with  nutmeg.    Or, 

Apples  may  be  peeled,  cored,  and  sliced,  put  into  a  double 
boiler  and  steamed  until  they  can  be  beaten  into  a  smooth 
sauce  with  a  fork.  A  little  butter  is  an  improvement,  added 
before  the  sugar. 

Dried  Apples, 

make  most  excellent  sauce,  and  may  be  used  alone,  or  com- 
bined with  an  equal  quantity  of  dried  peaches.  Soak  over 
night,  wash  thoroughly  and  stew  in  small  quantity  of  water 
until  tender.  Rub  through  a  colander,  and  sweeten.  Flavor 
with  a  pinch  of  cloves. 

Dried  Peaches. 

Scrub  each  piece  well,  soak  over  night.  Stew  very  slowly 
in  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Remove  carefully  with  a  skim- 
mer that  pieces  will  not  be  broken.  Make  a  syrup  of  2  cups  of 
the  water  in  which  the  peaches  were  cooked,  and  1  cup  sugar, 
pour  over  the  peaches  and  serve  cold  with  cream. 

Stewed  Rhubarb. 

Select  small  stalks  of  a  good  pink  color,  and  scrub  well. 
Cut  into  inch  lengths,  using  scissors  to  avoid  staining  your 
hands.  Put  into  a  sauce  pan,  sprinkle  generously  with  sugar, 
and  put  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  slowly.  Being  large- 
ly composed  of  water,  it  needs  none  to  cook  it;  if  allowed  to 
heat  slowly  sufficient  is    developed  to  make,  with  the  sugar, 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  285 


a  good  syrup.  If  rhubarb  is  cooked  in  water  to  cover  it  until 
almost  tender,  it  will  take  less  sugar  to  sweeten  it.  Drain  very 
dry  and  proceed  as  above. 

Prunes. 

Prunes  require  thorough  washing.  Examination  under 
a  microscope  will  convert  any  skeptic.  Use  a  soft  brush  and 
scrub  each  one.  If  soaked  for  an  hour  in  cold  water,  some 
of  the  wrinkles  will  smooth  out,  allowing  the  brush  to  reach 
the  skin,  but  in  this  case  use  the  brush  gently  as  the  skin  is 
likely  to  break.  Put  prunes  in  saucepan,  cover  with  warm 
water  and  allow  them  to  simmer,  but  not  boil.  Allow  them 
to  remain  in  the  hot  water  until  entirely  free  from  wrinkles 
when  they  will  be  tender  and  ready  for  use.  This  is  an  im- 
provement over  the  usual  method  of  boiling  prunes.  They 
need   no    sugar. 

Raw  Prunes. 

Buy  a  good  quality  stewing  prunes,  scrub  and  rinse.  Cover 
with  cold  water  and  soak  until  wrinkles  disappear.  Spread 
out  on  a  meat  platter,  after  draining,  and  set  aside  to  dry.  Just 
as  good  for  eating  raw  as  the  expensive  prunes  that  come  in  jars. 

Cranberry  Jelly  I. 

Wash  and  pick  over  1  quart  cranberries.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  without  any  water  except  that  which  clings  to  them 
after  washing.  When  berries  are  soft  and  can  be  readily  mashed, 
put  through  a  wire  sieve.  To  each  cup  of  juice,  add  1  cup 
sugar;  return  to  the  fire  just  long  enough  to  melt  sugar,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Put  into  a  mould  which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold 
water  and  set  away  to  harden. 

Cranberry  Jelly  II. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries,  put  over  the  fire  with 
1  cup  water  to  4  cups  cranberries.  When  heated  through 
and  soft,  rub  through  sieve  or  colander,  and  hang  up  in  a  jelly 
bag  to  drip.  This  will  give  you  the  pure  juice  without  the 
pulp.  Measure  juice,  boil  15  minutes,  not  too  fast,  add  equal 
quantity   sugar,   heat   to   boiling   point,   skim;   boil   1    minute 


WHAT    AND     HOW 


and  mould.  Prepared  in  this  way  the  jelly  will  be  very  clear, 
but  as  much  of  the  fruit  is  discarded,  a  quart  of  berries  will 
make  very  little  jelly;  therefore  unless  a  small  quantity  is 
wanted,  cook  2  quarts  berries.  This  jelly  is  especially  pretty 
moulded  in  tiny  glasses,  one  mould  to  be  served  to  each  person. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 
Wash   and   pick   over    1    quart   cranberries.      Add    1    cup 
water  and  stew  until  tender;  do  not  break  them.     Sweeten 
to  taste,  cook  5  minutes,  skim  and  cool.     This  is  not  intended 
for  jelly,  and  will  not  be  stiff  enough  to  mould. 

Preserving  Kettles. 

From  the  days  of  bell  metal  preserving  kettles  down  to 
the  present  time  of  aluminum,  there  has  been  nothing  to  equal 
the  enamel  ware.  It  is  light  in  weight,  easy  to  keep  clean, 
comes  in  convenient  sizes  and  shapes,  and  in  price  is  the  most 
moderate.  Aluminum  kettles  possess  these  qualifications  as 
well,  except  the  last.  Maslin  kettles  have  been  in  use  for  many 
years,  but  are  too  heavy  to  be  convenient.  Select  a  kettle  with 
a  large  base  and  not  very  deep.  Especially  in  the  case  of  jams 
it  is  unwise  to  have  much  depth  to  the  material  being  cooked; 
it  takes  more  time  to  thicken  as  it  should,  and  the  longer  it 
cooks  the  darker  it  grows  in  color. 

Fruit  Press. 

A  fruit  press  is  a  great  help  in  the  making  of  jellies  and 
fruit  juices.  It  saves  time,  extracts  more  juice,  and  the  labor 
of  preparing  fruit  for  jelly  is  reduced  at  least  one-half.  The 
next  best  way  to  extract  the  juice  is  to  heat  and  mash  the 
fruit,  and  allow  it  to  drip  through  a  jelly  bag.  If  one  does 
not  possess  a  fruit  press,  this  method  is  entirely  satisfactory. 
The  bag  must  hang  and  drip  over  night.  With  the  press,  15 
quarts  of  currants  may  be  made  into  jelly  in  two  hours'  time. 

Jelly. 

There  are  two  reasons  for  failure  in  jelly  making.  If 
the  jelly  does  not  "jell,"  and  so  often  it  does  not,  either  the 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  887 


fruit  has  been  too  ripe,  or  the  jelly  has  boiled  hard  after  the 
sugar  was  added  to  the  juice.  If  these  directions  and  recipes 
are  carefully  studied  and  adhered  to,  I  think  I  may  safely 
predict  successful  jelly  for  my  readers  in  the  future. 

Jelly  glasses  must  be  clean  and  sterilized.  To  accom- 
plish this,  stand  glasses  in  pan  of  cold  water,  and  fill  each 
glass  with  cold  water.  Put  on  the  stove,  and  bring  gradu- 
ally to  the  boiling  point;  remove  with  a  silver  fork  and  drain 
dry.  Stand  them  on  a  wet  towel  folded  double,  and  fill  with 
the  hot  jelly  The  towel  will  prevent  breaking;  it  should  be 
wrung  out  of  cold  water.  When  jelly  is  cold,  cover  with  melted 
paraffine,  and  when  firm,  with  the  tin  lid. 

Paraffine  or  Parowax 

is  a  safe  covering  for  jellies,  jam  or  marmalade;  taking  the 
place  of  the  circles  of  paper  dipped  in  brandy,  which  former- 
ly was  quite  the  most  tedious  part  of  the  whole  work.  Do 
not  pour  the  melted  wax  over  the  glasses  until  their  contents 
are  cold  and  solid,  and  use  enough  wax  to  assure  the  cover- 
ing and  solidity.  When  the  wax  is  removed,  wash  it  and  put 
away  for  another  time.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  a  saucepan 
on  purpose,  the  wax  is  then  ready  for  melting  at  any  time. 


Currant  Jelly. 

Select  currants  that  show  some  green  ones  among  the 
red,  and  buy  the  first  ones  that  come  to  the  market,  provided 
they  are  not  too  green.  It  is  the  late  jelly  makers  who  are 
apt  to  fail.  After  extracting  the  juice,  measure  carefully,  al- 
lowing 1  pound  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Bring  juice  slow- 
ly to  boiling  point  and  boil  20  minutes.  Let  it  boil  steadily 
but  not  too  hard,  and  do  not  interrupt  the  boiling  once  it 
starts.  When  you  have  accomplished  this,  pour  in  the  sugar 
and  stir  it  until  it  dissolves.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  skim  and 
remove  from  the  fire.  Fill  glasses  to  within  l/2  inch  of  top, 
and  when  cool,  fill  up  with  paraffine.  These  directions  apply 
to  all  jellies. 


288  WHAT     AND     HOW 


Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly. 

Follow  directions  given  above,  using  Yi  as  many  rasp- 
berries  as   currants. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Bellflowers  and  summer  pippins  make  the  best  jelly, 
though  any  kind  of  an  apple  not  too  sweet  will  do.  For  this, 
a  jelly  bag  is  necessary;  it  may  be  made  of  a  double  thick- 
ness of  cheese  cloth  sewed  in  the  shape  of  a  cornucopia,  or  of 
flannel  if  preferred. 

Wash  and  cut  the  apples  into  small  pieces,  discarding 
only  imperfections.  The  skins  add  flavor,  the  seeds  help  to 
form  jelly;  consequently  let  them  remain  with  the  fruit.  Put 
into  kettle  with  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  sticking,  not 
over  1  quart.  Cook  until  soft.  Turn  into  jelly  bag  and  hang 
up  to  drip  over  night.  In  the  morning  measure  juice  and 
porceed  as  directed  for  currant  jelly.  Do  not  squeeze  the 
bag  or  the  jelly  will  be  cloudy,  but  rub  the  contents  of  the 
bag  through  a  colander,  sweeten  and  flavor  for  apple  sauce. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly 

is  made  as  apple  jelly,  using  only  1  cup  water  to  cook  the  fruit. 

Quince  Jelly. 

Use  parings  and  seeds  from  quinces  when  making  mar- 
malade, with  a  little  of  the  fruit.     This  makes  beautiful  jelly. 

Grape  Jelly. 

Wild  grapes,  either  chicken  or  fox  variety,  make  the 
best  jelly,  and  can  be  used  either  ripe  or  green.  Wash,  re- 
move from  stems  and  put  through  fruit  press,  or  heat  in  kettle 
without  any  water  except  what  clings  after  washing.  Mash 
as  they  heat,  put  into  jelly  bag  and  proceed  as  with  apple  jelly. 

Mint  Jelly. 

When  making  apple  jelly,  take  part  of  it  when  ready  to 
put  into  glasses,  color  with  a  few  drops  of  Pistache  Green, 
and  flavor  with  essence  of  spearmint.     Put  these  two  articles 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  28!) 


in  carefully  and  in  small   quantities   until   you   have  just  the 
right  color  and  taste. 

This  jelly  may  be  made  in  the  winter,  of  greening  apples, 
and  is  attractive  in  appearance  as  well  as  a  desirable  accom- 
paniment to  roast  lamb,  or  bread  and  butter. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Jam  requires  ripe  fruit,  equal  quantity  of  fruit  and  sugar, 
frequent  stirring  and  long  slow  cooking.  It  must  be  thick 
when  done,  and  to  keep  it  from  being  too  dark,  it  is  advis- 
able to  cook  the  fruit  alone  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached, 
and  add  sugar  slowly  so  that  the  heat  will  not  be  reduced 
too  suddenly.  Wash  and  weigh  the  raspberries.,  put  them  over 
the  fire,  mashing  with  a  wooden  pestle  to  start  the  juices. 
Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  begins  to  boil,  add  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  and  cook  slowly,  but  steadily,  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  about  an  hour.  Remember  directions  given, 
slow  cooking,  frequent  stirring  and  not  too  much  in  the  kettle. 
If  quantity  is  very  small,  ^  hour  may  be  long  enough  to  cook. 
Select  raspberries  that  are  firm  and  a  good  color. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jam. 

Currants  and  raspberries  in  equal  quantities  make  a  most 
delicious  combination  in  jam. 

Green  Gooseberry  and  Raspberry  Jam. 

Two  quarts  green  gooseberries,  1  quart  raspberries.  Mix 
and  proceed  as  for  raspberry  jam. 

Blackberry  Jam. 

Make  by  directions  given  for  raspberry  jam. 

Apple  and  Quince  Marmalade. 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  into  pieces  equal  quantities  quinces 
and  apples.  Cook  in  small  quantity  of  water  until  soft;  rub 
through  colander.  Return  to  fire,  measuring  in  cup.  Add 
^i  of  its  measure  in  sugar,  cook  slowly  about  20  minutes,  stir- 
ring   frequently    to    prevent    sticking    or    burning.      Put    into 


290  WHATANDHOW 


glasses  and  cover  as  previously  directed.  If  the  strong  taste 
of  the  quince  is  not  objectionable,  use  ^3  as  many  apples  as 
quinces. 

Grape  Fruit  Marmalade  I. 

Three  or  four  large  grape  fruit  will  make  a  large  quan- 
tity of  marmalade.  Cut  grape  fruit  in  half  crosswise;  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  out  centers  and  seeds.  Going  around  the 
circumference  of  the  fruit,  cut  the  membrane  loose  from  the 
skin.  With  the  fingers  lift  out  all  the  tough  part.  Put  skin 
and  pulp  through  the  meat  chopper,  or  if  preferred,  chop  pulp 
only,  and  cut  the  peel  into  tiny  thin  slices,  no  thicker  than 
a  wooden  toothpick.  To  each  pint  of  fruit  and  peel  meas- 
ured together,  allow  3  pints  cold  water.  Mix,  and  set  aside 
for  over  night.  The  next  day,  put  on  the  stove,  and  bring 
gradually  to  boiling  point;  cook  steadily  but  not  too  fast  for 
2  hours.  When  measuring,  weigh  out  and  set  aside  \}4  pounds 
sugar  for  each  pint  of  fruit;  when  mixture  has  boiled  2  hours, 
add  sugar  and  boil  1  hour  longer.  See  directions  given  for  cook- 
ing marmalade  and  putting  into  glasses. 

Grape  Fruit  Marmalade  II. 

After  preparing  fruit  as  described  above,  cut  peel  into 
eight  sections,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until 
soft;  drain,  and  with  a  spoon  scrape  off  white  skin  from  peel, 
and  then  proceed  by  recipe  for  Grape  Fruit  Marmalade  I; 
either  chop  peel  with  pulp,  or  cut  it  into  shavings.  For  those 
objecting  to  the  bitter  taste  which  the  white  part  of  the  peel 
gives  to  the  marmalade,  this  recipe  is  specially  given. 

Peach  Marmalade. 

Peel  and  stone  the  peaches,  dropping  into  cold  water  to 
prevent  discoloration.  Weigh;  allow  ^  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  fruit.  Cook  the  fruit,  mashing  and  stirring  it  until 
it  is  soft  and  smooth.  Add  sugar  gradually  and  boil  15  min- 
utes. If  the  peaches  are  very  ripe,  they  may  be  put  through 
the  potato  press  before  cooking,  which  will  ensure  a  smooth 
marmalade.     Put  into  glasses  and  cover  as  directed.    Should 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  291 


there  be  a  large  quantity  of  juice,  remove  part  of  it  before 
adding  the  sugar.    It  will  make  fine  jelly. 

Green  Gage  Marmalade 

is  made  by  preceding  recipe,  except  that  the  skin  should  not 
be  removed  from  the  gages,  nor  must  it  be  mashed  through 
the  press. 

Pear  Marmalade. 
For  this  you  may  use  pears  that  are  inferior  and  unfit 
for  any  other  kind  of  preserving.  Cut  into  pieces  without 
paring,  rejecting  all  imperfections,  the  seeds  and  core.  Put 
through  meat  chopper  or  chop  very  fine  with  a  knife;  allow 
]/2  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  pears,  and  boil  until  it  is 
thick.  This  is  a  very  good  marmalade,  though  made  of  hard 
and  green  fruit. 

Plum  Conserve. 

5  lbs.  damson  plums  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

5  lbs.  sugar  }4  lb.  walnut  meats 

4  oranges,  juice  and  rind 

Put  nuts  and  raisins  through  meat  chopper,  cut  plums 
into  small  pieces,  mix  all  together,  add  sugar  and  boil  mixture 
45  minutes.    Put  into  jelly  glasses. 

Ginger  Pears. 

8  lbs.  fruit  %  lb.  green  ginger  root 

6  lbs.  sugar  1  cup  water 

Juice  of  4  lemons 

Peel,  remove  core  and  seeds,  and  cut  up  the  pears,  put 
through  the  meat  chopper,  or  if  preferred,  you  may  slice  in 
thin  slices.  Scrape  the  ginger  root  and  slice  very  thin.  This 
is  laborious  but  the  result  fully  repays  for  any  amount  of 
trouble.  Put  the  sugar,  water,  and  ginger  root  on  the  fire, 
and  cook  ten  minutes  without  stirring.  Add  fruit,  lemon 
juice  and  the  rind  of  one  lemon  cut  into  bits.  Cook  slowly 
for  an  hour,  put  into  sterilized  glasses,  and  proceed  as  for 
marmalade. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Select  sour,  smooth  skin  oranges.  Weigh  and  allow  ^ 
of  their  weight  in  loaf  sugar.     Remove  peel  from  oranges  in 


WHAT    AND    HOW 


quarters.  Cook  this  until  soft,  in  enough  water  to  cover; 
drain,  remove  white  part  from  peel  with  a  spoon,  by  scrap- 
ing it.  Cut  the  thin  yellow  rind  in  strips,  using  scissors.  This 
is  more  easily  accomplished  by  cutting  3  pieces  at  a  time. 

Divide  oranges  into  sections,  remove  seeds  and  tough 
part  of  skin;  heat  to  boiling  point,  add  sugar  gradually  and 
cook  slowly  1  hour.  Add  rind  and  cook  1  hour  longer.  When 
cool,  put  away  in  glasses  covered  with  parowax. 

Preserved  Strawberries. 

Cap,  wash  and  weigh  the  fruit.  Using  equal  quantity  of 
sugar,  put  in  layers  in  the  kettle,  sprinkling  each  layer  well 
with  the  sugar.  Set  aside  over  night.  In  the  morning  bring 
very  slowly  to  the  boil  and  cook  5  minutes,  or  until  you  are 
sure  the  berries  are  hot  through.  Skim  out  the  fruit,  and 
allow  the  syrup  to  boil  steadily  for  20  minutes,  in  which  time 
it  should  be  thick.  Skim  thoroughly,  return  the  berries  to 
the  syrup  just  long  enough  to  heat  through,  fill  jars  $4  full 
and  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them.  Cool,  and  before  putting 
parafline  over  them,  press  the  berries  under  the  syrup  to  keep 
them  from  touching  the  paramne. 

Strawberries  Preserved  in  the  Sun. 

After  the  berries  have  been  sugared  over  night  as  di- 
rected in  preceding  recipe,  heat  very  slowly  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Cover  the  kettle  with  mosquito  netting,  and  set  in 
the  sun.  Keep  the  kettle  in  the  full  sunshine  all  day,  put 
in  a  warm  place  over  night,  and  return  to  the  sunshine  in  the 
morning.  When  the  juice  is  quite  thick,  fill  jars  and  cover 
with  paraffine.  It  usually  takes  three  days  of  hot  sun  to  thicken 
the  juice.  If  cloudy  skies  interfere,  skim  out  the  berries  and 
cook  the  syrup,  proceeding  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe. 

Whole  Strawberry  Preserves. 

Select  the  largest  berries  from  the  quantity  to  be  pre- 
served, and  set  aside.  If  you  want  six  jars  of  preserves,  set 
aside  enough  berries  to  fill  them.  Put  the  smaller  berries  on 
the  fire,  mash  thoroughly,  and  when  very  hot  put  into  jelly 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  208 


bag  to  drip.  Measure  juice,  allow  1  pound  sugar  to  each  pint 
of  juice,  and  boil  steadily  but  not  hard,  for  20  minutes,  by 
which  time  it  should  begin  to  jelly.  Weigh  reserved  berries, 
allow  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  add  sugar  to  jelly  and  sim- 
mer until  dissolved.  When  boiling  again,  drop  in  the  berries, 
allow  them  to  heat  through  and  remove  at  once  from  the  fire. 
Skim  well  while  the  syrup  is  cooking  and  before  adding  the 
berries.    Fill  glasses,  cool,  and  cover  with  paraffine. 


Peaches  I. 

Pare,  stone  and  weigh  the  fruit.  Allow  equal  quantity 
of  sugar,  arrange  in  layers  in  kettle,  heat  very  slowly  and 
boil  until  fruit  is  clear  and  tender.  Skim  out  the  peaches 
and  pack  in  jars.  Remember  to  stand  jars  on  towel  wrung 
out  of  cold  water  to  prevent  breaking.  Boil  the  syrup  gently 
until  it  is  thick,  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  when  cool,  cover. 


Peaches  II. 

This  recipe  makes  a  medium  between  preserved  and 
canned  peaches,  and  is  the  best  way  I  know  for  preserving 
the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Select  the  best  flavored  peach 
you  can  find;  pare,  stone,  and  weigh.  Put  the  parings,  with 
a  few  of  the  stones,  cracked,  on  the  fire,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  them  well,  and  boil  hard  for  10  minutes  or  more, 
Strain.  Use  this  water  to  make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar.  Al- 
low ^2  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit;  when  syrup  is 
boiling  gently,  drop  in  a  few  pieces  of  peaches,  about  enough 
to  fill  a  jar,  and  let  them  cook  until  clear  and  tender.  (Test 
with  a  fine  knitting  needle.)  Pack  a  jar,  fill  to  overflowing 
with  the  boiling  juice  and  screw  the  lid  on  tight.  (See  di- 
rections for  canning.)  Proceed  as  above,  until  all  your  fruit 
is  cooked.  If  too  many  are  put  into  the  syrup  at  once,  the 
pieces  will  cook  too  much  and  lose  their  shape.  The  peaches 
may  be  cut  in  half,  or  sliced  thin.  When  sliced,  they  seem 
quite  like  the  summer  dish  of  fresh  sliced  peaches,  when  served 
as  a  winter  dessert  with  cream,  plain  or  whipped. 


294  WHATANDHOW 


Canning. 

Sterilize  jars,  tops  and  rubbers.  See  to  it  that  the  latter 
are  new  and  free  from  cracks,  also  that  they  fit  properly.  Use 
no  bent  tops  or  nicked  jars;  in  this  work  success  is  only  pos- 
sible to  the  woman  who  assures  herself  of  perfection  in  the 
most  trivial  preliminary,  and  who  follows  directions  exactly. 
Fruit  and  vegetables  must  be  freshly  gathered  and  free  from 
blemishes.  Use  a  silver  knife  to  pare  fruit  with,  and  drop  the 
pieces  into  cold  water  as  fast  as  pared  to  prevent  discoloring. 

When  ready  to  fill  jars,  fit  rubbers  on,  have  lids  ready, 
stand  jar  on  a  folded  wet  towel,  and  using  a  jar  funnel,  fill 
it  with  the  fruit.  Pour  syrup  in  until  nearly  full,  slip  a  sil- 
ver knife  down  inside  the  jar  to  allow  the  bubbles  of  air  to 
come  to  the  top,  and  then  pour  in  more  syrup  until  the  jar 
overflows  when  the  lid  should  be  quickly  screwed  on  and  the 
jar  wiped  off.  Cook  only  enough  at  a  time  to  fill  one  jar,  other- 
wise the  fruit  will  be  too  soft. 

In  making  the  syrup  the  amount  of  sugar  used  has  noth- 
ing to  do  with  preserving  the  fruit,  so  that  it  becomes  mere- 
ly a  matter  of  how  sweet  you  wish  the  syrup  to  be.  When 
jars  cool,  give  the  tops  an  extra  screwing. 

Canned  Peaches. 

Pare,  stone  and  halve  the  peaches,  after  washing  them. 
Put  the  skins  and  a  few  of  the  stones,  cracked,  on  the  stove 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes 
and  strain.  Use  this  water  to  make  a  syrup,  allowing  3  cups 
water  to  2  cups  sugar.  If  this  is  sweeter  than  you  wish,  add 
more  water.  Boil  for  10  minutes,  then  add  the  peaches,  a 
jar  full  at  a  time,  and  cook  just  long  enough  to  become  ten- 
der and  clear,  when  they  may  be  packed  in  the  jar.  Fill  the 
jar  to  overflowing  with  syrup,  and  screw  lid  on  tight.  When 
cool,  give  the  top  another  twist  to  make  sure  of  its  fitting 
perfectly  tight,  and  set  at  once  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Pears  I. 

Select  Bartlett  pears,  as  having  more  flavor  than  most 
others.     After  paring,  cutting  in  half  and  removing  core  and 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  295 


seeds,  boil  until  tender,  remove  from  the  kettle  and  spread 
on  flat  dishes.  Make  a  syrup  as  in  preceding  recipe,  drop 
the  pears  into  it  and  proceed  as  for  peaches. 

Canned  Pears  II. 

If  using  pears  of  inferior  flavor,  boil  a  piece  of  green  ginger 
root  in  the  syrup  until  the  flavor  is  according  to  your  taste, 
and  then  proceed  as  directed  above. 

Pineapple,  Quinces, 

and  all  hard  fruits  require  the  same  treatment  as  the  pears. 

Canned  Rhubarb. 
Pare  rhubarb  and  cut  in  1  inch  pieces.     Pack  in  a  jar, 
put  under  cold  water  faucet  and  let  water  run  for  20  minutes, 
then   screw   on   cover.     Rhubarb  canned  this   way   has   been 
known  to  keep  a  year. — Miss  Farmar. 

Canned  Small  Fruits. 

Strawberries,  raspberries  and  blackberries  require  the 
same  treatment.  Allow  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  %  pound 
granulated  sugar,  sprinkle  sugar  between  layers  of  berries  in 
preserving  kettle,  and  set  aside  for  an  hour.  Put  on  the  stove 
and  heat  gradually.  When  berries  are  hot  through,  pack  jars 
with  them  and  fill  up  with  the  juice.  Let  it  overflow  and  screw 
on  tops. 

Canned  Cherries 

Cherries  may  be  canned  with  or  without  the  stones.  If 
stoned  with  a  reliable  stoner  they  keep  in  perfect  shape,  but 
if  done  by  hand,  they  are  apt  to  lie  flat  in  the  jar.  Use  direc- 
tions given  for  canning  other  fruit. 

Canned  Blackberries 

are  especially  useful  in  the  winter  for  pies  and  blackberry 
mush.     See  recipe  for  small  fruits. 


296  WHATANDHOW 


CANNED  VEGETABLES. 

Canning  Vegetables. 

I  have  given  here  only  such  recipes  as  I  know  may  be 
carried  out  with  satisfaction.  If  one  lives  where  the  vege- 
tables can  be  picked  fresh  and  canned  at  once,  it  would  be 
wise  for  her  to  invest  in  a  patent  canning  outfit,  and  use  direc- 
tions accompanying  it.  Otherwise,  buy  your  canned  corn, 
peas  and  beans.  Canning  vegetables  is  not  ordinarily  a  suc- 
cess for  the  city  woman  nor  economical  either,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  those  for  which  I  have  given  recipes  unless  the  Cold 
Pack  Method  is  used.  In  this  case  vegetables  may  be  canned 
with  the  assurance  of  success,  provided,  of  course,  directions 
are  closely  followed. 

Canned  Tomatoes,  Whole. 

Use  jars  with  wide  mouths.  Select  well  shaped,  large 
tomatoes,  firm  and  ripe.  Peel.  Drop  6,  or  whatever  num- 
ber will  fill  one  jar,  into  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  8  min- 
utes. Pack  in  a  jar,  fill  up  with  boiling  water  and  screw  on 
tops. — Marion  Harland. 

Tomatoes  and  Okra. 

Select  for  this  young  tender  pods  of  the  okra.  Proceed 
with  the  tomatoes  according  to  directions  given  for  canning, 
slice  the  okra,  and  using  equal  quantities  cook  tomato  and 
okra  together  until  okra  is  tender.  Use  superfluous  water 
from  tomatoes  for  filling  up  jars — it  must  be  boiling. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  tomatoes,  rejecting  the  hard  centres. 
The  peeling  is  done  quickly  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  then  running  the  cold  water  spigot 
into  the  pan  until  the  hot  water  is  cooled;  the  skins  should 
now  slip  off  easily.  Do  not  allow  the  tomatoes  to  lie  in  the 
hot  water  or  they  will  become  soft.  Squeeze  with  the  hand 
and  drain  off  superfluous  water.  Save  this  to  can  for  soup. 
Put  on  the  fire  and  cook  steadily  until  they  are  like  stewed 


FRUIT,  FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  Wt 


tomatoes,  adding  salt  to  taste  and  removing  as  much  water 
as  possible  while  they  cook.  Following  directions  given  for 
canning,  fill  jars  to  overflowing  and  screw  lids  on  tight.  You 
will  have  jars  full  of  stewed  tomatoes  ready  to  be  heated, 
seasoned  and  thickened  when  needed  for  use.  Cook  the  water 
drained  off,  until  it  is  reduced  nearly  half,  and  fill  jars  as  direct- 
ed. This  is  invaluable  in  many  ways,  for  soups,  gravies  cas- 
seroles, etc. 

Canned  Beets. 

Boil  beets,  rub  off  skin,  cut  into  cubes  or  slices.  Have 
ready  boiling  water,  seasoned  with  salt  and  enough  vinegar 
to  flavor.  Drop  beets  into  this  boiling  liquid,  cook  until  hot 
through,  pack  into  jars  and  fill  up  with  boiling  liquid,  as  di- 
rected for  canning. 

Canned  Sweet  Red  Peppers. 

Wash  one  peck  red  peppers,  remove  stem  end  and  seeds, 
then  cut  in  thin  strips  by  working  around  the  pepper,  using 
scissors.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  2  minutes,  drain, 
and  plunge  into  ice  water.  Let  stand  10  minutes,  drain  and 
pack  solidly  into  pint  jars.  Boil  one  quart  vinegar  and  two 
cups  sugar  15  minutes,  pour  over  peppers  in  jars  until  it  over- 
flows, screw  on  the  lids  and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  For  salads, 
casseroles,  etc.,  there  is  nothing  equal  to  this  when  the  fresh 
pepper  is  out  of  season;  it  lasts  a  long  while  after  the  jar  has 
been  opened  if  kept  covered  with  cold  water,  it  is  much  cheaper 
than  the  canned  pimento  to  be  purchased  at  the  stores,  and 
is,  in  fact,  quite  a  different  article.  In  sandwiches  it  does  not 
take  the  place  of  pimento  as  it  is  not  soft  enough  to  spread  or 
mix  with  cream  cheese,  but  is  unrivalled  in  its  own  place.  This 
is  Miss  Farmar's  recipe,  the  comment  is  my  own. 

Cold  Pack  Method. 

By  the  use  of  this  method  the  canning  of  vegetables  be- 
comes an  easy  matter  for  any  woman  who  is  willing  to  follow 
directions  exactly.  The  neglect  of  any  detail  means  failure 
while  success  is  assured  if  instructions  are  carefully  followed. 
The  Government  Bulletin  on  Canning  is  your  best  guide.     It 


298  WHATANDHOW 


can  be  secured  by  writing  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Washington.  Expensive  canning  outfits  are  not.  necessary. 
Ordinary  wash  boilers,  new  garbage  pails,  any  container  deep 
enough  to  allow  an  inch  of  water  over  tops  of  the  jars  will 
answer  every  purpose. 


299 


CHAPTER  XXVII 


PICKLES,  SWEET  AND  SOUR. 
Peaches. 

7  lbs.  fruit  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

4  lbs.  sugar  yi  oz.  whole  cloves 

1  quart  vinegar 

Pare  the  peaches,  halve  and  stone.  Cook  peaches,  sugar 
and  spices  together  slowly  for  10  minutes,  add  vinegar  and 
stew  until  fruit  is  clear  and  tender.     Put  away  in  stone  jar. 


Plums. 

Prick  the  fruit  (after  washing),  using  a  coarse  needle. 
Allow  4  pounds  sugar  to  7  pounds  plums,  1  ounce  each  of  stick 
cinnamon  and  whole  cloves.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  add  1 
pint  vinegar  and  boil  5  minutes. 

Pickled  Cherries. 

Wash  and  seed  cherries,  weigh  and  cover  with  vinegar. 
Set  aside  for  24  hours.  With  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  pack 
cherries  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers  in  a  kettle  or  stone  jar. 
Stir  carefully  two  or  three  times  daily  until  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved.     Put  into  glass  jars. 

Whole  Peaches. 

7  lbs.  peaches  3  cups  vinegar 

3  lbs.  brown  sugar  }4  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

Cloves 

Pour  boiling  water  over  peaches  and  wipe  with  coarse 
towel  to  remove  "fuzz,"  but  be  careful  not  to  break  the  skin. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar;  boil  20  minutes  (with 
cinnamon).  Stick  4  cloves  into  each  peach  and  put  fruit  into 
an  enamel  kettle.  Pour  hot  syrup  over  it  and  set  aside  until 
next  day.  Then  heat  syrup  again  and  pour  hot  over  peaches 
the  second  time.  The  next  day  boil  syrup  and  fruit  together 
until  tender.    Or, 


300  WHATANDHOW 


Boil  syrup  and  cinnamon  for  10  minutes,  drop  in  the 
peaches,  boil  until  tender.  (Test  with  a  wooden  toothpick.) 
Remove  the  fruit,  boil  syrup  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  cool 
and  pour  over  the  peaches  in  a  stone  jar.  The  results  are  the 
same  as  in  the  first  directions  and  it  involves  less  labor  and 
time. 

Cantelopes. 

Select  firm,  not  too  ripe  cantelopes,  small.  Cut  into  sec- 
tions and  pare.  Put  into  stone  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar. 
Let  them  stand  for  24  hours.  Weigh  fruit,  allowing  to  each 
8  pounds  of  cantelopes,  4  pounds  sugar  and  1  quart  vinegar, 
in  which  they  were  soaked.  One  ounce  each  of  stick  cinna- 
mon and  cloves  should  be  added  to  this  quantity.  Boil  sugar, 
vinegar  and  spice  together  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  fruit  and 
stew  until  it  is  clear  and  tender.  Remove  fruit  with  a  skim- 
mer and  put  into  stone  jar.  Boil  syrup  until  it  seems  thick; 
cool  and  pour  over  the  cantelopes.  Do  not  use  any  sweet 
pickle  until  it  is  a  month  old,  at  least. 

Chutney. 

15  tart  apples  2  onions 

15  green  tomatoes  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

8  cups  sugar  3  cups  vinegar 

1  cup  lemon  juice  3  tablespoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  ginger  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  cut  tomatoes  in  slices  and  put 
apples,  tomatoes  and  onions  through  meat  chopper.  Add  rest 
of  ingredients,  stir  thoroughly  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next 
day,  cook  slowly,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burning.  After 
two  or  three  hours  it  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  jam.  Put 
into  sterilized  glass  jars  and  seal  while  hot. 

Watermelon  Rind. 

Cut  in  strips  about  2  inches  long  and  y2  inch  wide  and  cut 
in  half  lengthwise.  Uniform  sized  pieces  add  much  to  the 
appearance  of  this  sweet  pickle.  Cover  with  alum  water,  2  tea- 
spoons powdered  alum  to  1  quart  of  water  and  let  them  soak  in 
this  for  yi  hour.  Boil  10  minutes  in  the  alum  water,  drain, 
cover  with  ice  water  and  set  aside  for  2  hours.    Drain  and  wipe 


PICKLES  SOI 


dry  between  two  towels.  Make  a  syrup  of  4  lbs.  sugar  and 
1  pint  white  vinegar  to  7  lbs.  of  fruit.  Add  for  the  same  weight 
of  fruit,  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon  and  1  oz.  whole  cloves.  Boil  5 
minutes.  Add  fruit  and  cook  until  tender.  Let  stand  until 
next  day,  remove  spices  and  put  into  glass  jars  cold. 

Cherries  and  Pears 

may  be  spiced  according  to  recipe  for  plums,  omitting  the 
pricking.  Remove  stones  from  cherries  and  skin  from  pears, 
and  if  latter  are  not  ripe,  boil  before  adding  to  syrup. 


PICKLES. 


Yellow  Tomatoes. 

Use  small  egg  shaped  tomatoes,  and  prick  them  with  a 
coarse  needle,  this  to  prevent  skin  from  bursting.  Make  a 
strong  brine  (salt  and  water),  pack  the  tomatoes  in  a  stone  jar 
and  cover  them  with  it.  Set  aside  for  two  days.  Drain  and 
wash.  For  yi  peck  tomatoes,  allow  6  green  peppers,  seeds 
removed  and  peppers  chopped,  1  ounce  whole  cloves,  1  ounce 
mixed  mustard  seed,  and  1  pint  tiny  onions  peeled.  Put  all 
together  in  a  jar,  cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  tie  up  tightly. 


Peach  Mangoes. 

Select  large  yellow  peaches,  not  too  ripe.  Cover  with 
strong  brine  for  24  hours.  Then  cut  in  half,  take  out  stone, 
and  return  peaches  to  the  brine  for  over  night. 

For  half  peck  peaches  make  filling  as  follows : 

2  oz.  celery  seed  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

2  oz.  coriander  seed  2  oz.  black  mustard  seed 

2  oz.  ginger  (ground)  2  oz.  tumeric 

2  doz.  small  onions,  chopped  1  tablespoon  horse  radish 

Mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  halves  of  peaches,  tie  together  in 
pairs,  pack  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Make  brine 
with  2  quarts  of  water  and  \}4  cups  salt. 


302  WHAT    AND    HOW 


Ripe  Tomato  Pickle. 

7  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes  yi  oz.  ground  cinnamon 

3^  lbs.  sugar  %  oz.  ground  mace 

1  quart  vinegar  1  oz.  ground  cloves 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  mix  with  other  ingredients, 
and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour.    This  sauce  is  quite  sweet. 

Pepper  Sauce  I. 

6  red  peppers  1  large  head  cabbage 

12  green  peppers  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

yi  tablespoon  ground  cloves  %  tablespoon  ground  allspice 

yi  oz.  celery  seed  Vinegar 

Seed  and  chop  peppers,  chop  cabbage  and  salt  them  sep- 
arately. Set  aside  for  an  hour,  squeeze  all  the  water  from  them, 
and  mix  together.  Add  spices,  mix  and  pack  in  jars.  Cover 
with  cold  vinegar.  Ready  for  use  in  two  days,  or  will  keep  all 
winter.  This  is  a  very  old  recipe,  and  has  been  in  use  in  one 
family  for  five  generations. 

Pepper  Sauce  II. 

Put  through  the  meat  chopper  1  head  cabbage,  6  green 
peppers  and  6  medium  size  onions.  Mix  well  with  1  cup  salt 
and  set  aside  for  2  hours.  Drain  and  squeeze  dry  as  possible. 
Mix  with  J^  cup  mustard  seed,  3  tablespoons  celery  seed  and 
1  cup  sugar.     Put  into  glass  jars  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

Pickled  Beets. 

Boil  nice  red  beets  until  tender.  (See  directions  for  boil- 
ing beets  to  retain  their  color.)  Drop  into  cold  water  and 
rub  off  the  skins.  Cut  into  small  blocks,  uniform  in  size.  This 
is  easily  done  by  holding  the  beet  in  left  hand,  cutting  across 
and  down  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  crossing  these  cuts  again 
at  right  angles;  now  cut  off  slices,  making  blocks  about  J^  inch 
square.  Pack  loosely  in  glass  jars.  Cover  with  vinegar,  pre- 
pared as  follows:  To  two  quarts  vinegar,  allow  4  pounds 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  powdered  alum.  Boil  and  skim.  Then 
add  one  teaspoon  each  of  whole  cloves,  whole  allspice,  pepper- 
corns and  mustard  seed  tied  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth.  Boil 
slowly  for  15  minutes,  pour  over  the  beets  and  cover  tightly 
as  though  canning. 


PICKLES  303 


Oil  Pickles. 

2  doz.  large  cucumbers  2  doz.  onions,  medium  size 

]4  lb.  yellow  mustard  1  cup  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  pepper  1  oz.  each  of  allspice  and  cloves, 

ground 

Wash  cucumbers  and  cut  into  slices  l/i  inch  thick.  Strew 
with  salt,  cover  and  set  aside  for  3  hours;  drain.  Peel  and 
slice  the  onions,  strew  with  salt  and  set  aside  for  3  hours;  drain. 

Mix  the  remaining  ingredients.  Pack  onions  and  cucum- 
bers in  alternate  layers  in  a  stone  jar,  covering  each  layer 
with  the  mustard  mixture,  and  pour  over  all,  enough  vinegar 
to  cover.     Tie  up  tightly. 

Chow  Chow. 

2  qts.  green  tomatoes  1  qt.  small  cucumbers 
6  green  peppers                                     4  large  cucumbers 

1  large  cauliflower  1  qt.  button  onions 

2  qts.  vinegar  yi  cup  sugar 
6  tablespoons  yellow  mustard  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  tumeric 

Cut  tomatoes,  large  cucumbers  and  peppers  (seeded) 
into  small  pieces,  peel  onions  and  wash  small  cucumbers.  Break 
the  cauliflower  into  flowerets,  and  put  all  these  vegetables 
into  strong  salt  and  water  over  night.  In  the  morning,  heat 
brine  and  vegetables  together  to  boiling  point;  drain;  pack 
vegetables  in  jars.  Boil  vinegar,  make  paste  of  mustard,  sugar, 
flour  and  tumeric  mixed  with  cold  vinegar,  add  to  boiling 
vinegar,  stir  well,  pour  over  contents  of  jar  while  hot.  Paste 
must  not  be  too  thick. 


"Pretty  Pickle." 

12  green  peppers  ]/2  cup  salt 

12  red  peppers  3  cups  sugar 

3  hot  red  peppers  3  pints  vinegar 

16  large  onions  2  teaspoons  celery  seed 

Put  peppers  through  meat  chopper,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  drain.  Repeat  this.  Put  onions  through  chopper 
and  mix  with  peppers.  Add  other  ingredients  and  boil  15 
minutes.  Put  away  in  glass  jars.  Of  course  seeds  and  tough 
membrane  must  be  removed  from  the  peppers. 


304  WHATANDHOW 


Bordeaux  Sauce. 

4  qts.  chopped  cabbage  yi  doz.  onions,  peeled  and  sliced 

2  qts.  sliced  green  tomatoes  }4  oz.  tumeric 

yi  oz.  celery  seed  %  oz.  whole  pepper  corns 

X  lb.  mustard  seed  yi  oz.  whole  allspice 

Yi  cup  salt  y?  oz.  ground  ginger 

3  cups  brown  sugar  2  qts.  vinegar 

y*  oz.  whole  cloves 

Mix  all  together,  boil  half  hour. 

Green  Tomato  Soy. 

2  gallons  sliced  green  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves 

12  large  onions,  peeled  and  sliced  1  qt.  sugar 

2  qts.  vinegar  2  tablespoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  ground  allspice  2  tablespoons  ground  mustard 

2  tablespoons  pepper 

Slice  tomatoes  without  peeling,  mix  all  ingredients  to- 
gether and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing.    Put  into  small  glass  jars. 

Pickled  Onions. 

Select  the  small  button  onions,  peel  and  cover  with  brine 
(2  quarts  water  to  1>£  cups  salt).  Let  them  lay  in  this  4  days. 
Drain.  Make  a  fresh  supply  of  brine,  put  it  on  the  stove; 
when  it  boils,  drop  in  the  onions  and  boil  5  minutes.  Drain; 
cover  with  cold  water  and  set  aside  until  the  next  day.  Drain. 
Spice  some  vinegar,  the  quantity  depending  upon  the  number 
of  jars  you  expect  to  fill,  pack  the  onions  in  the  jars,  cover  with 
the  vinegar  boiling  hot,  and  fasten  tops  on.  Do  not  use  for 
several  weeks. 

To  Spice  Vinegar. 

To  1  gallon  vinegar,  allow  1  cup  sugar,  2  red  peppers, 
seeded  and  chopped,  1  ounce  cloves  and  1  ounce  peppercorns. 
Cook  10  minutes  and  strain. 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce. 

y2  peck  ripe  tomatoes  1  cup  mixed  mustard  seed 

1  cup  grated  horse  radish  2  stalks  celery,  chopped 
y*  cup  salt                                                 1  cup  nasturtium  seeds 

2  green  peppers,  seeded  and  1  onion,  chopped 
chopped  1  cup  sugar 

2  red  peppers,  seeded  and  chopped       1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  ground  cloves  3  cups  vinegar 


PICKLES  305 


Peel  tomatoes,  cut  small  and  drain  off  water  and  juice. 
Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover.  Ready  for  use 
in  a  month. 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce. 

The  foregoing  recipe  makes  only  a  small  quantity  of  pickle. 

It  is  such  a  useful  and  delicious  sauce  to  have  on  hand  that  I 

am  giving  the  recipe  here  for 

1  basket  tomatoes  4  cups  salt 

4  cups  mustard  seed  2  tablespoons  pepper 

8  red  peppers,  sweet  6  green  peppers,  sweet 

4  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves 

1  tablespoon  ground  mace  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

2  quarts  vinegar  4  cups  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces 

5  onions  sliced  2  cups  grated  horse  radish 

Chili  Sauce. 

9  ripe  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  sugar 
2  green  peppers  3  teaspoons  salt 

2  large  onions  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

1  tablespoon  celery  seed  2  cups  vinegar 

1  nutmeg,  grated 

Put  peppers  and  onions  through  meat  chopper,  peel  and 
cut  tomatoes  in  small  pieces'  Tie  celery  seed  in  a  bag.  Mix  all 
ingredients  and  cook  1  hour.  If  not  thick  by  this  time,  cook 
longer.  The  peppers  must  be  prepared  according  to  directions 
given  in  preceeding  recipes.    Use  pint  jars  to  put  it  in. 


306  WHAT     AND    HOW 

CHAPTER  XXVIII 

Cooking  in  a  Casserole  and  Fireless  Cooker. 

The  easiest,  the  cheapest,  the  best  cooking  in  the  world 
is  done  in  either  a  casserole  or  a  vessel  arranged  to  work  on 
the  same  principle.  The  toughest  meat  becomes  tender,  the 
most  tasteless  material  comes  forth  delicately  flavored,  and 
everybody  may  have  one,  inasmuch  as  a  plain  earthern  ware 
dish  with  a  close  cover,  is  just  as  valuable  a  casserole,  as 
though  it  were  of  expensive  ware  and  encased  in  silver  holders, 

Of  course,  the  latter  is  much  better  looking  on  the  table, 
but  our  plainer  one,  costing  but  a  small  sum,  may  be  dressed 
in  the  paper  case  that  comes  for  the  purpose,  or  have  a  napkin 
pinned  around  it  and  look  perfectly  respectable  anywhere.  By 
this  method  of  cooking,  nothing  escapes  in  steam,  because  the 
steam  itself  is  fastened  in  with  the  food  and  does  the  cooking, 
condensing  on  the  lid  and  dropping  back  on  the  contents, 
flavored  with  condiments  and  spice,  blended  with  the  aroma 
of  herbs,  vegetables  and  meat.  For  economical  reasons  also, 
the  casserole  is  to  be  commended;  there  is  nothing  too  small 
or  meagre,  to  be  combined  and  used;  fragments  that  would 
ordinarily  be  wasted  are  invaluable  in  the  casserole,  and  as 
the  cooking  process  is  a  long  slow  one,  all  the  work  neces- 
sary to  prepare  one,  may  be  done  early  in  the  day,  which 
should  commend  it  to  the  woman  who  cooks  her  own  dinner. 

Meat  to  be  cooked  in  the  casserole  needs  searing  before 
it  is  placed  in  the  casserole.  Bacon  fat  or  ham  drippings  will 
add  to  the  flavor,  if  these  are  not  convenient,  use  butter.  Have 
pan  and  fat  very  hot  so  that  the  pores  will  close  at  once.  (See 
chapter  on  meat  for  description  of  searing.)  Pimento  (canned 
sweet  pepper)  or  the  sweet  red  pepper  itself  when  in  season, 
is  invaluable  in  casseroles;  it  gives  a  flavor  and  zest  not  ob- 
tainable from  anything  else;  onion,  tomatoes,  spices,  kitchen 
bouquet  and  herbs  are  all  essential.  After  the  cooking  is  well 
under  way  the  casserole  may  be  removed  to  the  fireless  cooker 
where  it  can  remain  until  time  to  serve  thus  relieving  the 
cook  of  any  further  thought  of  her  meal  through  the  after- 


CASSEROLE    AND    FIRELESS    COOKER    W 


noon.  For  the  casserole  may  contain  all  the  dinner  except 
salad  and  dessert,  or  soup  if  it  is  to  be  served.  I  have  selected 
a  few  recipes  most  likely  to  prove  useful,  but  the  ingenuity  of 
each  housekeeper  is  called  upon  to  evolve  other  dishes  accord- 
ing to  the  left  overs  at  her  command;  she  will  find  it  most 
interesting  and  satisfactory  work  and  quite  worthy  of  intelli- 
gent use. 


Chicken  Casserole. 

Joint  a  chicken  and  remove  the  meat  from  the  larger 
bones.  If  it  is  an  old  chicken,  steam  it  for  an  hour  in  ]4  pint 
water  and  2  teaspoons  vinegar,  keeping  it  closely  covered  and 
the  water  boiling  gently.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Melt  3  table- 
spoons good  dripping  or  bacon  fat  in  a  skillet,  chop  an  onion 
and  fry  to  a  golden  brown,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  Roll  the 
pieces  of  chicken  in  flour  and  fry  to  a  good  brown,  but  do  not 
cook  any  longer  than  is  necessary  to  brown  it.  Cut  1  carrot 
into  diny  dice,  also  1  cup  of  celery.  Cut  into  narrow  strips,  1 
red  pepper  if  in  season,  if  not  use  1  canned  pimento,  or  some 
strips  of  preserved  and  canned  pepper  if  you  have  been  wise 
enough  to  put  these  up  in  glass  jars  as  recommended.  Make 
a  bed  of  these  vegetables  and  arrange  the  chicken  on  it, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  the  fat  remaining  in  the 
pan  (if  there  is  more  than  1  tablespoon  pour  the  surplus  off), 
add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  rub  smooth.  Add  2  cups  hot  water 
add  y2  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet  and  cook  for  10  min- 
utes with  2  bay  leaves  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Remove  the 
herbs,  pour  over  the  chicken,  add  >£  cup  button  mushrooms, 
or  pieces  and  stems  sliced,  and  bake  closely  covered  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  2  hours.  Or,  place  casserole  on  asbestos 
mat  on  the  stove,  heat  gradually,  let  boil  gently  15  minutes, 
and  transfer  to  the  tireless  cooker  for  4  to  6  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve,  pour  off  the  gravy,  add  1  cup  cream,  and 
thicken  slightly  with  1  tablespoon  flour  and  the  same  of  but- 
ter rubbed  smooth  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  back  over  the  chicken  and  serve.  Sprinkle  minced  pars- 
ley over  the  top. 


308  WHATANDHOW 


Rice  Border. 

If  desired,  a  rice  border  may  be  made  by  boiling  slowly,  1 
cup  rice  in  1  quart  salted  water,  until  the  rice  absorbs  the 
water  and  forms  a  smooth  paste.  Grease  the  casserole,  mash 
the  rice  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  with  the  casserole  quite  cold,  line  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  it  with  the  rice  paste.  Set  aside  for  half  an  hour,  or  until 
rice  stiffens,  then  proceed  as  above. 

Creole  Chicken  Casserole. 

Proceed  according  to  recipe  for  chicken  casserole,  using 
instead  of  the  sauce  given  there,  a  Creole  sauce  made  as  fol- 
lows: 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  green  peppers 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  onions,  medium  size 

1  cup  tomatoes  1  bay  leaf 

2  sprigs  thyme  2  sprigs  parsley 
Salt  Pepper 

1  cup  water 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour  and  let  it  brown.  Add  water 
slowly  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  other  ingredients  (the  pep- 
pers, seeded  and  sliced,  the  onion  chopped)  cook  slowly  for  15 
minutes,  remove  bay  leaf  and  herbs  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 
Finish  the  casserole  according  to  directions  given  for  Chicken 
Casserole. 

Casserole  of  Minced  Veal. 

Line  a  casserole  with  rice,  as  described  in  Chicken  Cas- 
serole. Make  a  cream  mince  of  veal,  mixing  2  cups  chopped 
meat  with  1  cup  White  Sauce,  well  seasoned,  put  into  cas- 
serole and  cook  in  moderate  oven  1  hour.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce.     Chicken,  beef  or  lamb  can  be  used  instead  of  veal. 

Beef  Casserole. 

2  lbs.  round  steak  ]/£  green  pepper 

1  pint  tomatoes  yi  bay  leaf 

1  onion,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

Sear  the  meat  and  lay  it  in  the  casserole.  Put  in  the 
other  ingredients  and  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  As 
soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  transfer  to  the  fireless  cooker  for  4 
hours,  or  longer  if  you  choose.     If  you  have  no  fireless  cooker, 


CASSEROLE    AND    FIRELESS    COOKER    309 


bake  in  a  slow  oven  2  hours,  or  over  a  burner  of  the  gas  stove 
turned  low  enough  to  keep  the  casserole  simmering  The 
meat  will  not  be  tender  if  you  allow  the  sauce  to  boil  hard. 
When  ready  to  serve,  if  sauce  is  not  thick  enough  add  1  table- 
spoon flour  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water  and  strained, 
cook  until  thick.     Remove  the  bay  leaf. 

Casserole  of  Lamb  Chops. 

2  lbs.  chops  from  a  leg  of  lamb  1  cup  potato  balls 

or  mutton  1  doz.  button  onions 

4  large  tomatoes  ^4  can  mushrooms 
1  cup  stock 

Sear  the  meat;  peel  and  slice  tomatoes;  parboil  the  potato 
balls  and  onions  for  5  minutes.  The  latter  must  of  course  be 
peeled,  and  are  improved  by  laying  an  hour  in  cold  water.  If 
you  do  not  have  a  potato  ball  cutter,  they  may  be  cut  into  }4 
inch  blocks.  Put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  in  the  casserole,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  layer  of  green  peppers,  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Lay  }4  the  meat  upon  this,  cover  with  potatoes, 
onions,  and  mushrooms,  then  put  in  the  rest  of  the  meat.  On 
top  of  this  put  another  layer  of  tomatoes  with  peppers. 
Sprinkle  each  layer  with  a  little  salt.  Pour  over  all,  the  stock 
and  bake  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or  }4  hour  on  the  stove,  heat- 
ing gradually,  and  4  hours  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Pour  off 
gravy,  when  ready  to  serve,  thicken  it,  allowing  }4  tablespoon 
butter  and  the  same  of  flour  to  each  cup  of  gravy.  Cook  it 
long  enough  to  lose  the  taste  of  the  flour  before  returning  to 
the  casserole.  Make  stock  of  beef  extract  and  hot  water  if 
you  have  no  stock  or  gravy  to  use. 

The  Fireless  Cooker. 

According  to  U.  S.  government  reports,  the  fireless  cooker 
saves  from  20  per  cent,  to  50  per  cent,  of  the  nutritive  food 
values  that  usually  boil  away;  in  ordinary  cooking  the  shrink- 
age is  very  perceptible,  there  is  practically  none  in  this  method 
of  cooking  by  retained  heat.  The  fireless  cooker  saves  fuel, 
reduces  the  heat  of  the  kitchen,  is  odorless,  for  there  can  be 
no  escape  of  steam,  and  to  the  woman  who  does  her  own  work, 
a  boon  inasmuch  as  her  breakfast  may  be  put  in  the  night  be- 


310  WHATANDHOW 


fore,  and  her  dinner  prepared  and  set  in  the  cooker  in  the 
morning  without  causing  her  a  thought  through  the  afternoon. 
It  is  especially  useful  for  meat  or  vegetables  requiring  long 
slow  cooking,  and  used  in  conjunction  with  the  casserole  will 
provide  the  most  nutritious  food  at  the  minimum  of  cost. 
If  using  a  kettle  which  is  smaller  than  the  cooker  kettle,  put 
hot  water  in  the  latter  and  the  small  kettle  inside  the  large 
one.  As  it  retains  heat,  it  will  also  retain  cold,  and  there  is  no 
better  place  to  keep  ice  cream  from  melting,  or  any  chilled 
dessert  perfectly  cold.  A  small  piece  of  ice  will  thoroughly 
chill  it,  remove  ice  and  put  in  the  cream.  Or  set  the  cream  in 
a  small  pail  inside  the  cooker  kettle  with  ice  in  it,  it  will  keep 
for  hours. 

Baked  Beans  With  Fireless  Cooker. 

Prepare  beans  as  directed  in  recipe  for  Boston  Baked 
Beans;  after  cooking  an  hour,  remove  to  the  fireless  cooker 
and  leave  for  several  hours,  or  over  night.  This  is  the  ideal 
way  of  cooking  baked  beans,  as  the  heat  is  steady.  You  may 
have  to  reheat  in  the  oven  and  return  to  the  cooker,  which 
depends  upon  your  cooker.  A  good  one  should  keep  the  beans 
cooking  all  night. 

Jams. 

Jams  cook  thick  and  smooth  in  the  fireless  cooker.  When 
you  are  sure  the  syrup  and  fruit  are  thoroughly  hot,  put  into 
the  cooker  to  finish. 

Apples  and  Rhubarb 

Will  retain  their  color  if  cooked  in  the  fireless  cooker,  or 
if  the  fruit  is  colorless,  will  assume  a  rich  red  color.  Sprinkle 
the  fruit  well  with  sugar,  set  the  cooker  kettle  containing  it 
on  the  stove  where  the  sugar  will  melt  gradually,  and  when 
the  syrup  forms,  bring  all  to  boiling  point,  transfer  to  the 
cooker  and  leave  it  for  2  hours.  If  the  fruit  is  very  dry,  add 
a  small  quantity  of  water  to  make  the  syrup. 

Stewed  Beef  Kidney. 

2  beef's  kidneys  y&  teaspoon  powdered  mace,  or 

1  sprig  thyme  Y  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  White  Sauce  Salt  and  pepper 


CASSEROLE    AND    FIRE  LESS    COOKER    811 


Slice  kidneys,  and  soak  for  1  hour  in  strong  salt  water; 
drain.  Cover  with  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  point,  pour  off 
water  and  cover  again  with  cold  water.  When  heated  to 
boiling  point  repeat  process  twice.  Mince  the  kidneys,  re- 
jecting all  fibre  and  fat.  Add  to  white  sauce  with  the  season- 
ings, put  into  the  cooker  kettle  and  bring  to  the  boil.  When 
boiling  rapidly — transfer  at  once  to  the  cooker.  If  the  quan- 
tity is  too  small  to  fill  the  kettle  that  fits  in  the  cooker,  use  a 
smaller  kettle:  when  ready  for  the  cooker,  put  this  into  the 
larger  kettle  and  fill  up  with  newspapers  crumpled  up  and 
packed  in.  The  kidney  may  remain  in  the  cooker  6  or  8  hours. 

If  cooker  is  not  used,  boil  kidney,  after  mincing,  for  4 
hours  on  the  stove;  thicken  the  gravy  add  the  seasonings  and 
cook  20  minutes  longer. 

Sweet  Potato  Balls. 

After  baking  a  ham  with  sugar  as  directed  (Chap.  7)  there 
will  be  a  quantity  of  syrup  remaining  in  the  pan.  Use  this 
to  cover  in  a  casserole,  sweet  potato  balls  or  slices,  (which 
have  been  previously  boiled  10  minutes).  Cook  in  a  slow 
oven  until  potatoes  are  tender.  Or.  they  may  be  put  into  the 
fireless  cooker  for  2  hours,  in  which  case  they  will  not  need 
parboiling.  Boil  on  the  stove  15  minutes  before  removing  to 
the   cooker. 

Casserole  of  Calf's  Liver. 

Have  your  dealer  send  home  to  you  a  larded  calf's  liver. 
In  the  casserole,  put  a  layer  of  minced  salt  pork.  Lay  the 
larded  liver  upon  this  and  add  a  mince  made  of  1  carrot,  1 
large  onion,  6  stalks  celery,  and  1  bay  leaf,  all  chopped  very 
fine.  Cover  with  4  cups  strong  stock,  seasoned  with  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  ^  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet,  salt 
and  pepper.  If  you  have  no  stock  on  hand,  make  it  of  boiling 
water  and  beef  extract,  seasoning  as  directed.  Bake,  covered, 
in  the  oven  2  hours;  or  heat  gradually  on  the  stove  and  cook 
yi  hour,  put  into  fireless  cooker  for  4  hours.  Thicken  the 
gravy  slightly  and  strain  it  over  the  liver  on  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  served. 


312  WHAT    AND    HOW 


CHAPTER  XXIX 


CANAPES  AND  SANDWICHES. 

Canapes  are  served  before  the  first  course  at  dinners  and 
luncheons,  on  very  small  plates  at  each  place,  before  guests  are 
seated.  The  foundation  is  always  the  same;  thin  slices  of 
erustless  bread,  either  fried  in  hot  fat  or  dipped  in  melted  but- 
ter and  browned  in  hot  oven.  Like  salads,  these  are  capable  of 
infinite  variety  in  the  hands  of  an  experienced  or  interested 
housekeeper,  and  will  fully  repay  the  small  amount  of  trouble 
involved  in  their  manufacture  in  the  satisfaction  always  aris- 
ing from  the  exercise  of  ingenuity.  Cut  the  bread  square, 
round  or  oblong,  and  vary  by  using  the  scalloped  cooky  cutter 
occasionally. 

Anchovy  Canapes. 

1  tablespoon  Anchovy  paste  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  6  olives  chopped  very  fine 

1  tablespoon  butter 

With  a  fork,  cream  the  butter,  add  paste,  lemon  juice 
and  chopped  olives,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Spread  toast  with 
this  mixture,  arrange  a  ring  of  finely  chopped  egg  white,  and 
put  in  the  centre  a  small  mound  of  egg  yolks  rubbed  through 
fine  sieve. 

Sardines  or  Caviare 

may  be  used  in  place  of  Anchovy. 

Bellevue  Canape. 

Upon  the  toast  lay  a  thin  slice  of  bright  red  boiled  beet, 
which  has  been  marinated.  On  this  lay  a  slice  of  hard  boiled 
egg  and  cover  with  a  little  Mayonnaise.  Top  off  with  a  stuffed 
olive  standing  on  end,  and  surround  with  a  ring  of  minced 
pimento. 

Manhattan  Canape. 

Cut  peeled  tomatoes  in  quarter  inch  thick  slices,  and  put 
on  toast.  Spread  with  Mayonnaise.  Arrange  a  ring  of 
chopped  whites  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  mound  in  centre,  of   the 


CANAPES     AND     SANDWICHES         313 


yolks  rubbed  through  fine  sieve,  decorated  with  a  stuffed 
olive  standing  in  centre  and  a  tiny  sprig  of  parsley  laid  across 
the  olive. 

Daisy  Canape. 

On  a  thick  slice  of  tomato,  covered  with  Mayonnaise, 
arrange  finely  chopped  whites  of  hard  boiled  egg  in  four  points 
to  resemble  the  petals,  and  put  yolks  rubbed  to  a  powder  in 
the  centre. 

Crab  Canape. 

Mix  \]4.  tablespoons  grated  cheese  with  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, add  %  teaspoon  paprika  and  cream  with  a  fork  until 
smooth;  spread  on  slices  of  toast.  Marinate  1  cup  crab 
meat,  chopped  fine,  in  French  dressing  for  an  hour,  drain  and 
spread  over  the  canape.    Serve  very  cold. 

Cheese  Canapes. 

Sprinkle  rounds  of  toasted  or  fried  bread  with  thick  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  sprinkle  with  paprika  and  salt,  bake  in  hot 
oven  until  cheese  is  melted. 

SANDWICHES. 

Thin  slices  of  crustless  bread,  cut  into  different  shapes 
for  variety's  sake,  the  best  of  butter,  creamed  with  a  fork,  well 
seasoned  and  varied  fillings,  these  are  essentials  in  the  mak- 
ing of  sandwiches.  If  not  for  immediate  use  wrap  in  paraffine 
paper  to  keep  moist.  Use  bread  at  least  a  day  old,  and  un- 
less the  sandwich  is  to  be  cut  with  round  or  fancy  cooky  cut- 
ters, spread  the  slice  before  cutting  from  the  loaf.  It  is  not 
worth  while  to  waste  the  butter  if  remnants  are  to  be  left  after 
cutting  out. 

Sandwiches  may  be  made  in  squares,  oblongs,  triangles, 
circles,  crescents  or  rolled.  The  latter  is  diffiult  to  accom- 
plish and  the  bread  must  be  fresh  and  of  just  the  right  tex- 
ture. I  have  prepared  a  list  of  sandwich  fillings  from  which 
selections  may  be  made.  With  the  assistance  of  flavored  but- 
ters a  greater  variety  still  may  be  obtained.  These  flavored 
butters  are  also  available  for  canapes.     I  have  obtained  these 


314  WHATANDHOW 


from  ''The  Hostess  of  To-day,"  a  book  rich  in  ideas  for 
"those  who  appreciate  the  finer  effects  of  seasoning  and  serv- 
ing." Mrs.  Larned  recommends  the  use  of  unsalted  butter 
for  these,  but  if  not  easily  obtained,  the  usual  salted  butter 
may  be  used.    Personally,  I  think  it  adds  to  the  flavor. 

Sandwich  Fillings. 

WHITE  BREAD.  BROWN  BREAD. 

1     Thin  slices  ham,  and  chopped  1 .     Cream  cheese  and  pimento 
pickles  mixed  and  moistened  with 

2.  1  cup  chopped  celery  French  dressing 

1  tablespoon  chopped  apples  2.     Chopped  nuts  and  jelly  or  mar- 

1  tablespoon  chopped  nuts  malade 

Moisten  with  Mayonnaise  3.     Maraschino  cherries  cut  small 

3.  Cream  cheese  mixed  with  chopped  nuts 
Chopped  nuts  4.  Canton  ginger  in  thin  slices 
Mix  with  Mayonnaise 

4.  Lettuce  dipped  in  French  •  RYE  BREAD. 

dressing,  sprinkled  with  hard  Swiss  cheese  in  very  thin  slices 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  spread  lightly  with  French 

5.  yi  cup  chicken  chopped  dressing  or  mustard 
%  cup  celery  chopped 

Mix  with  Mayonnaise 

Olive  Butter. 

6  large  olives  stoned  and  chopped  Or,  6  pimolas  chopped  fine 

fine  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  butter,  add  olives  gradually,  mashing  as  smooth 
as  possible. 

Tartare  Butter  I. 

1  teaspoon  capers  chopped  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  pickled  cucumber,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
chopped  l/i  teaspoon  French  mustard 

2  olives  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  butter 

Tartare  Butter  II. 

Mix  with  1  tablespoon  creamed  butter,  1  tablespoon  Cold 
Tomato  Sauce  (see  pickles),  which  must  be  drained  perfectly 
dry  and  chopped  very  fine. 


Parsley  Butter. 

irsley  2  ta 

jw  drops  onion  juice 

Cream  butter,  and  add  parsley  and  onion  juice. 


1  tablespoon  minced  parsley  2  tablespoons  butter 

Few  drops  onion  juice 


CANAPES     AND     SANDWICHES         815 


Watercress  Butter. 
Make    by    preceding   recipe.      The   cress    must    he    minced 
very  fine. 

Anchovy  Butter. 

1  tablespoon  Anchovy  paste  yi  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  Dash  of  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  fork,  add  other  ingredients  and 
mix  thoroughly. 

Caviare  Butter. 

2  tablespoons  Caviare  paste  yi  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  butter  and  add  other  ingredients. 
Cheese  Butter. 

2  tablespoon  grated  cheese  or  yi  teaspoon  paprika 
Parmesan  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  butter  and  add  other  ingredients. 
Chutney  Butter. 

1  tablespoon  Chutney  ]/i  teaspoon  French  mustard 

yi  teaspoon  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  butter 

Proceed  as  above. 

Lobster  Butter. 

1  tablespoon  lobster  meat,  pounded  yi  teaspoon  Anchovy  paste 

fine  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

JA  tablespoon  coral,  mashed  Dash  paprika 

smooth  Dash  nutmeg,  grated 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  butter,  blend  all  other  ingredients  thoroughly,  and 
add  to  butter.    Fine  for  canapes. 

Pimento  Paste. 

Heat  2  sweet  red  peppers  in  the  oven  until  the  skin  can 
be  removed.  Boil  until  tender,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Mix 
with  equal  quantity  of  cream  cheese.  This  can  be  purchased 
already  for  use,  and  is  invaluable  in  sandwiches  or  as  a  picnic 
accompaniment,  to  be  eaten  on  crackers. 

For  Club  Sandwiehes,  see  chapter  on  Luncheon  and  Supper. 


316  WHAT    AND    HOW 

CHAPTER  XXX 

WHAT  TO  SAVE,  AND  WHY. 

"No  one  can  be  sure  of  having  enough,  unless  she  has  too 
much/'  which  means  "left  overs."  In  the  chapter  on 
"Luncheon  and  Supper,"  will  be  found  many  recipes  for  using 
these,  if  enough  be  left  over;  this  chapter  will  offer  sugges- 
tions for  using  quantities  too  small  to  be  of  service  in  a  menu, 
but  yet  may  be  utilized  in  other  ways. 

A  tablespoon  of  beans,  save  for  vegetable  soup. 

2  tablespoons  mashed  potatoes  will  make  a  great  differ- 
ence in  your  bread,  if  added  to  the  liquids  before  the  flour  goes 
in,  it  will  keep  bread  soft  and  fresh  for  several  days. 

Crusts  and  scraps  of  bread.  Dry  in  the  oven,  and  use 
for  bread  crumbs  to  fry  with. 

2  tablespoons  gravy,  save  for  sauce,  or  minces. 

1  tablespoon  mushrooms  is  enough  for  an  omelet. 

Bones  and  scraps  from  a  roast  will  make  soup,  if  covered 
with  cold  water,  brought  slowly  to  the  boil  and  cooked  slowly 
for  Yz  hour.     Strain. 

Rice  water.  After  boiling  rice,  drain  and  use  the  water 
for  soup  or  rice  jelly.  It  is  full  of  nourishment,  and  if  sweet- 
ened and  cooled,  makes  a  good  dessert  for  an  invalid  or  child. 
If  not  thick  enough  for  jelly  boil  again  for  15  minutes.  If 
treated  in  this  way,  it  may  be  moulded. 

Pieces  of  fat  and  all  skimmings  from  gravies  and  soups, 
from  the  water  in  which  a  ham  had  been  boiled  or  that  in 
which  poultry  or  meat  has  been  cooked,  should  be  saved,  sim- 
mered gently   over  the  fire  in   a   double  boiler  and  strained 


WHATTOSAVE  317 


through  a  sieve.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  until  solid.  It  is  the 
best  frying  material  you  can  have.  Do  not  use  mutton  fat, 
the  flavor  is  not  pleasant. 

Sour  milk  is  valuable  for  biscuits,  gingerbread  or  cottage 
cheese.  Two  cups  sour  milk  will  make  enough  of  the  latter 
to  serve  two  persons,  or,  mixed  with  chopped  nuts  or  pimento, 
will  make  about  a  dozen  balls  for  salad. 

1  cup  breakfast  hominy,  will  make  muffins,  or  if  sliced 
and  fried,  a  garnish  for  a  meat  dish. 

1  tablespoon  stewed  tomatoes,  rubbed  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  seeds,  will  make  a  desirable  addition  to  a  brown 
sauce,  or  meat  gravy. 

Oatmeal  or  other  cooked  breakfast  foods,  may  be  pressed 
into  a  dish,  and  when  cold  and  firm,  sliced  or  cut  into  blocks, 
dredged  with  flour  and  fried,  or  used  for  griddle  cakes. 

A  ham  bone  gives  an  excellent  flavor  to  bean  soup;  the 
skin,  when  removed  after  boiling,  will  yield  quite  a  little  fat 
suitable  for  corn  bread  or  frying  potatoes.  Cover  it  with 
water,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  strain  and  when  cold,  remove  the 
fat  from  the  top  of  the  water. 

2  tablespoons  cooked  fish,  combined  with  equal  quantity 
mashed  potato,  will  make  ten  fish  balls. 

Small  quantities  of  cooked  meats,  not  enough  for  a 
mince  may  be  mixed  with  mashed  potato,  made  into  meat 
cakes  and  fried,  or  shaped  into  a  mound,  brushed  over  with 
melted  butter  and  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  long  enough  to 
heat  thoroughly.     Season  well. 

Mushroom  peelings  and  stems.  Wash  thoroughly  be- 
fore peeling.  Put  through  the  meat  chopper  and  dry.  Put  into 
a  glass  jar  with  a  tight  cover.  One  teaspoon  will  flavor  six 
cups  of  consomme. 


318  WHATANDHOW 

Celery  tops.  Prepare  as  above,  Or  tie  in  a  bunch  and 
use  for  soup  flavoring. 

Outside  and  coarse  pieces  of  celery,  for  stewing. 

Celery  roots  may  be  sliced  and  used  for  soup  seasoning. 

Parsley  may  be  dried  in  the  oven  with  the  door  left  open. 
It  can  be  powdered  and  kept  in  a  jar  with  a  tight  lid.  Wash 
parsley,  shake  dry,  put  in  a  glass  jar  with  tight  lid  and  put 
in  a  cold  place.    It  will  keep  for  a  week. 

For  garnishing  carrot  tops,  parsley,  cress,  mint,  celery 
tops,  hard  boiled  eggs,  bright  red  sliced  beets. 

Herb  bouquet.  1  spray  parsley,  1  sprig  thyme,  2  celery 
tops,  1  bay  leaf..  1  chili  pepper  (small).  Cooked  in  soup  stock 
for  an  hour  will  season  4  quarts. 


319 


CHAPTER  XXXI 


FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT. 

These  recipes  are  given  in  quantities  sufficient  for  one 
person.  I  am  indebted  for  most  of  them  to  Miss  Farmar's 
"Food  and  Cookery  for  the  Sick  and  Convalescent/'  a  book 
of  fascinating  interest,  which  is  used  as  a  text  book  in  many 
training  schools  for  nurses,  and  should  be  in  every  home. 

Albumen  Water. 

White   1   egg  %  cup  cold  water 

Beat  white  of  egg,  adding  water  gradually;  add  a  dash 
of  salt,  or  a  few  drops  lemon  juice. 

Beef  Extract  and  Albumen  Water. 

White  1  egg  %  cup  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  beef  juice  or  Celery  salt  or 

yi  teaspoon  beef  extract  Few  drops  lemon  juice 

Stir  beef  juice  in  the  hot  water,  and  proceed  as  wTith  pre- 
ceding recipe,  seasonings  last. 

Egg  Lemonade. 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

yi  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  2  teaspoons  sherry 

%  cup  cold  water  2  tablespoons  crushed  ice 

Beat  egg  slightly,  add  sugar  and  other  ingredients,  and 
strain  over  crushed  ice      Wine  may  be  omitted  if  not  desired. 

Irish  Moss 

deserves  to  be  better  known.  A  generation  or  two  ago,  it  was 
in  constant  use  for  colds,  inflamed  throats  or  irritating  coughs, 
and  it  still  has  a  place  in  those  families  to  whom  the  recipes 
have  descended  from  great  grandmothers. 

Pick  over  and  wash  well,  soak  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover,  and  then  put  on  the  stove  and  cook  twenty  minutes, 
allowing  to  one  quart  water,  about  a  cup  of  the  moss,  meas- 
ured before  soaking.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  enough  lemon 
juice  to  flavor  it  well.     It  may  be  strained  if  desired,  but  my 


320  WHATANDHOW 


memory  goes  back  to  my  grandmother  and  her  pitcher  of 
"carrageen,"  as  she  called  it,  with  the  bits  of  moss  and  slices 
of  lemon  as  thin  as  paper  floating  in  it,  giving  an  added  charm 
to  the  drink.  Serve  hot  or  cold;  for  sore  throats  and  incipient 
colds,  it  is  best  hot. 

Orange  Albumen. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  gradually 
the  juice  of  an  orange.     Serve  with  plenty  of  crushed  ice. 

If  Milk  Disagrees 

try  a  little  Vichy  in  it.    This  makes  it  more  digestible. 

Egg  Nog. 

1  egg  \}4  tablespoons  sherry  or 

yi  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  brandy 


cup  cold  milk 


Beat  egg  separately.  To  the  yolk,  add  sugar,  beat  in  the 
liquor  gradually,  then  add  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  con- 
stantly.   Fold  in  the  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff. 

Wine  Whey. 

To  ]/2  cup  milk,  allow  6  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine. 
Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  wine.     After  it  has  stood  a 
few  minutes  the  milk  will  break;  strain  through  cheese  cloth. 

Clam  Broth. 

Clam  broth,  as  made  by  the  Franco  American  Co.,  is  just 
as  good  as  though  made  at  home.  It  may  be  purchased  in 
tiny  cans  holding  y2  pint. 

Chicken  Broth,  I. 

is  also  obtainable  in  the  same  way,  saving  a  nurse  much  trouble 
and  time.     Open  cans  and  let  contents  aerate  before  using. 

Chicken  Broth,  II. 

Pour  hot  chicken  broth  gradually  over  an  egg  beaten  only 
long  enough  to  mix  the  yolk  and  white,  and  continue  beating 


SICK    AND     CONVALESCENT  321 


while  adding  broth.  Cook  just  a  moment  and  strain.  If 
cooked  too  long  the  egg  will  curdle. 

Chicken  Broth,  III. 

Select  for  this,  the  back,  wings,  neck  and  feet  of  the 
chicken.  Scald  the  feet  and  skin  them.  Pound  these  bones  and 
whatever  meat  may  be  on  them  with  a  potato  pestle,  and  put 
them  into  a  kettle  that  will  fit  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Cover 
with  cold  water,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  cook  slowly  on  the 
stove  for  ]/2  hour.  Put  into  the  cooker  over  night,  or  all  day. 
Strain,  chill  and  skim.  If  you  do  not  use  a  cooker,  it  must 
simmer  4  hours  or  more,  on  the  stove.  Season  with  salt  and 
celery    extract. 

Jellied  Chicken  Broth. 

Prepare  as  above,  1  to  2  cups  broth,  add  1  tablespoon 
gelatin  soaked  10  minutes  in  cold  water;  strain,  heat  to  boil- 
ing point,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  extract. 
Mould.  Use  the  better  pieces  of  the  chicken  for  stewing  or 
frying.    Or,  buy  2  cans  chicken  broth,  and  use  for  jelly. 

To  Vary  the  Seasoning, 

cook  a  slice  of  onion  in  the  broth,  before  adding  gelatin,  and 
let  it  remain  only  long  enough  to  give  a  flavor  which  will  not 
be  too  pronounced.  An  invalid  soon  tires  of  beef  tea,  broths, 
etc.,  but  the  appetite  may  be  stimulated  by  a  change  in  the 
seasonings  used. 

Beef  Tea. 
The  meat  from  the  neck  or  shoulder  will  be  found  more 
juicy  than  the  piece  of  round  steak  usually  recommended  for 
beef  tea.  Cut  one  pound  of  beef  into  small  pieces  (after  wash- 
ing it  well),  cover  with  cold  water  and  keep  in  a  cold  place 
for  y2  hour.  A  little  salt  added  to  the  water  will  aid  in  draw- 
ing out  the  juice.  Put  over  the  fire  and  heat  slowly  to  boil- 
ing point,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Strain.  Beef  tea  may 
be  seasoned  with  celery  extract  occasionally,  which  relieves 
the  monotony  when  given  constantly.  Also,  a  slice  of  onion 
may  be  dropped  in  just  long  enough  to  change  the  taste  without 
imparting  its  own  flavor. 


322  WHATANDHOW 


Mutton  Broth. 

3  lbs.  lamb  cut  from  the  rack  2  tablespoons  boiled  rice  or  barley 

3  pints  cold  water  Salt 

Remove  all  fat  from  the  meat,  and  separate  the  meat  from 
the  bones.  Cut  this  into  small  pieces,  and  with  the  bones 
and  water  added,  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point,  skim  and 
cook  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more.  Strain  and  cool.  When 
fat  rises  to  the  top  (if  set  in  a  bowl  of  ice,  it  can  be  quickly 
cooled)  skim  carefully,rem  oving  small  particles  with  a  piece 
of  blotting  paper;  reheat,  add  rice  or  barley  previously  boiled 
until  soft.  A  tiny  bit  of  parsley  dropped  in  the  cup,  makes  it 
attractive. 

Toast. 

Vary  the  usual  appearance  of  toast  by  cutting  the  bread 
in  different  shapes  before  toasting.  Only  an  experienced  per- 
son knows  how  necessary  it  is  to  use  all  means  possible  to 
render  the  invalid's  tray  inviting  and  its  contents  tempting. 
Toast  may  be  made  of  bread,  cut  into  squares  and  then  diagon- 
ally across;  in  circles,  with  the  scalloped  cooky  cutter,  in 
rings  with  the  cruller  cutter,  in  strips,  blocks,  or  finger  shap- 
ed pieces.  Do  not  pile  slices  of  toast  on  top  of  one  another, 
tip  them  up  and  rest  edges  together,  or  arrange  log  cabin 
fashion  if  cut  into  strips. 

Cream  Toast,  I. 

Make  a  white  sauce  with  ]/i  tablespoon  butter,  ^  table- 
spoon flour  and  one  cup  milk;  following  directions  for  making 
white  sauce.  Season  well  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Make 
2  or  3  pieces  of  toast,  dip  into  the  sauce,  put  on  hot  plate  and 
pour  remaining  sauce  over  it. 

Cream  Toast,  II. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  toast  and  arrange  in  a  soup  plate. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Pour  over  them  boiling  water,  and 
turn  it  off  at  once.  Cover  with  cream,  put  a  hot  plate  over 
dish,  and  stand  over  hot  water  a  few  moments  before  serving. 
The  cream  may  be  heated,  but  it  is  not  necessary. 


SICK    AND    CONVALESCENT  323 


Oatmeal  Mush  With  Apples. 

Core  apples  and  cut  the  cavity  larger.  Pare.  Make 
syrup  of  one  cup  sugar  and  \}4  cups  water,  and  cook  apples 
in  this  until  they  are  tender  but  not  soft.  Serve  hot,  with  hot 
oatmeal  mush  in  the  cavity,  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar  and 
cover  with  cream  or  rich  milk.  This  quantity  of  syrup  will 
do  several  apples  and  they  may  be  served  in  a  variety  of  ways. 
If  two  are  cooked,  serve  one  with  the  mush,  the  other  one 
next  day,  with  a  jelly  made  by  boiling  the  syrup  until  it  spins 
a  thread;  flavor  with  lemon  juice,  or  flavor  and  color  with  a 
drop  or  two  of  red  coloring  extract. 

Panada. 

Cut  two  slices  of  stale  bread  into  small  blocks.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  it,  and  drain  at  once.  Sprinkle  with  sugar, 
dust  with  grated  nutmeg,  and  serve  hot  in  a  glass.  A  tea- 
spoon of  sherry  wine  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwich. 

Cut  2  thin  slices  of  bread  and  remove  crust.  Butter. 
Spread  1  slice  with  scraped  beef  seasoned  with  salt  and  cover 
with  the  other  slice.  Cut  in  half  diagonally,  making  2  tri- 
angular sandwiches.  To  scrape  beef,  cut  into  strips,  and  fol- 
lowing the  grain  of  the  meat,  scrape  with  a  spoon,  first  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  This  will  remove  the  meat 
from  the  tissue  or  fibre. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches  Toasted. 

These  sandwiches  may  be  delicately  browned  on  both  sides, 
either  over  a  clear  fire,  or  under  the  oven  gas  flame.  & 

Chicken  Sandwiches. 

Mince  cold  boiled  chicken,  add  a  tiny  bit  of  minced  pars- 
ley and  season  with  salt.  Then  proceed  as  for  Raw  Beef  Sand- 
wiches, plain  or  toasted. 


324  WHATANDHOW 


Egg  Toast. 

Boil  an  egg  20  minutes;  toast  a  piece  of  crustless  bread, 
about  yi  inch  thick.  Butter  it,  and  dip  for  an  instant  only, 
into  hot  water.  Cover  it  with  the  yolk  of  the  egg  rubbed 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Good  for  babies  (over  a  year  old)  as 
well  as  for  invalids. 

Chicken  Omelet. 

2  tablespoons  minced  chicken  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

%  cup  White  Sauce  2  eggs 

Salt  to  taste 

Make  the  sauce  with  yi  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  and  ^2  cupful  milk,  following  directions  for  White 
Sauce.  Beat  the  eggs  just  long  enough  to  mix  yolks  and 
whites,  and  make  into  an  omelet.  When  ready  to  double  over 
put  %  the  chicken  and  White  Sauce,  mixed  together  and 
seasoned.,  on  one  side,  double  the  other  side  over  it,  turn  out 
on  a  platter,  and  pour  the  remainder  of  the  chicken  and  sauce 
around  it.  Richardson  and  Robbins'  boned  chicken,  in  small 
cans,  can  be  used  to  advantage  in  this  recipe.  Full  directions 
for  making  the  omelet  will  be  found  on  page  221. 


Creamed  Chicken. 

1  small  can  Richardson  &  Rob-  >^  cup  White  Sauce 

bins'  boned  chicken  1  slice  toast,  crustless,  and 

Cut  into  yi  inch  squares 

Use  only  part  of  the  chicken,  turn  the  remainder  into  a 
bowl  to  use  for  soup,  puree,  etc.  For  this,  the  white  meat  is 
best,  while  the  dark  makes  the  better  soup.  Mix  chicken  and 
White  Sauce,  push  the  squares  of  toast  together  into  the 
shape  of  a  slice,  and  pour  creamed  chicken  over  it.  Toast  ar- 
ranged thus  is  convenient  for  a  convalescent  to  eat.  A  poach- 
ed or  dropped  egg  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken,  or  toast 
cut  in  this  way,  may  be  covered  with  cream  or  milk  heated 
and  seasoned.  Use  celery  extract  to  season  the  creamed 
chicken,  or  if  celery  tops  are  available  2  or  3  pieces  may  be 
cooked  in  the  sauce  long  enough  to  give  a  flavor. 


SICK    AND     CONVALESCENT  325 


Chicken  Puree. 

\4>  cup  cooked  chicken,  chopped  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  scalded  milk  Celery  extract 

Dash  of  salt 

Rub  meat  through  a  puree  strainer,  and  mix  smooth  with 
the  butter;  add  the  milk  gradually  and  the  seasonings.  The 
canned  chicken  is  very  convenient  to  use  for  this  puree. 

Cup  Custard,  Boiled. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  slightly  with  }4  tablespoon  of 
sugar.  Heat  one  cup  of  milk  and  pour  gradually  over  the  egg 
mixture,  beating  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  fire  and  cook 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  custard  is  thick 
enough  to  coat  the  spoon.  Flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or 
bitter  almond.  When  very  cold,  serve  in  a  glass  with  a  mer- 
ingue on  top,  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  stiff 
and  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar.  A  little  pink  confec- 
tioner's sugar  will  add  to  its  attractiveness.  Also,  a  maraschino 
cherry  is  a  good  decoration,  dropped  on  the  top  of  the 
meringue. 

Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange. 

1  tablespoon  Irish  moss  1^  cups  milk 

\yi  cups  cold  water  Vanilla 

Select  nice  clean  pieces  of  the  moss  and  discard  all  dis- 
colored ones.  Soak  for  20  minutes  in  the  cold  water  and  drain. 
Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  moss  and  cook  not 
over  15  minutes,  10  minutes  should  be  enough.  If  cooked  too 
long  the  blanc  mange  will  be  too  stiff.  As  soon  as  the  milk 
thickens  slightly,  strain  and  flavor.  Set  aside  to  cool  in  small 
moulds  or  after  dinner  coffee  cups.  When  firm,  turn  out  on  a 
glass  saucer  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  The  milk  may 
be  sweetened  before  adding  the  moss  if  preferred.  This  will 
make  6  small  moulds. 

Wine  Jelly. 

An  attractive  way  to  serve  wine  jelly,  is  to  reserve  part 
of  the  jelly  when  ready  to  chill,  beating  it  until  frothy  with 
a  Dover  egg  beater.  Serve  jelly  in  Apollinaris  tumbler  and 
put  the  frothy  jelly  on  top. 


326  WHATANDHOW 


Rice  Jelly. 

}6  cup  rice  1  pint  boiling  water 

yi  cup  water  y2  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  the  rice,  and  soak  it  for  2  hours  in  the  cold  water. 
Boil  it  fyi  hour  in  the  pint  of  boiling  water  into  which  the  salt 
has  been  stirred.  Strain  through  double  cheese  cloth  and  set 
away  to  stiffen.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  This  is  very 
nourishing  and  good  for  babies  as  well  as  invalids. 

Tapioca  Jelly. 

Soak  y?.  cup  pearl  tapioca  over  night  in  1  cup  cold  water. 
In  the  morning,  cook  it  in  1  pint  boiling  water  until  clear, 
adding  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  juice 
of  ^  lemon,  strain,  and  mould  in  small  glasses  or  individual 
moulds.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Cocoa,  With  Egg. 

Beat  an  egg  until  very  light  and  frothy.  Add  gradually, 
a  cup  of  cocoa  made  by  directions  on  the  can,  beating  all  the 
time.  If  the  egg  and  cocoa  are  poured  into  a  hot  silver  pitcher, 
when  half  the  cocoa  has  been  added,  the  drink  will  keep  its 
heat  without  returning  to  the  fire.  Then  add  remainder  of 
cocoa. 


327 


CHAPTER  XXXII 


Kitchen  and  Laundry. 

For  the  kitchen  floor  there  is  nothing  so  easy  to  care 
for  as  a  smooth  surface,  oiled,  with  2  or  3  small  rag  rugs  if 
desired.  Linoleum  makes  a  good  covering  for  a  kitchen  floor, 
but  is  expensive  and  requires  frequent  washing.  White 
enameled  cloth  makes  the  best  covering  for  the  tables,  as  it 
is  easily  washed  off  and  will  look  well  as  long  as  it  does  not 
become  stained.  Do  not  keep  too  many  things  tucked  away 
in  closets;  if  hung  up  in  view,  they  necessarily  must  be  clean 
and  shining. 

Tack  a  tape  diagonally  across  one  of  the  dresser  doors 
inside;  it  is  a  convenient  holder  for  extra  kettle  lids.  It  may 
cross  back  and  forth  several  times,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
door.  An  assortment  of  sizes  is  desirable  in  these  lids,  from  a 
cover  for  the  smallest  saucepan,  to  one  for  the  largest  kettle. 
Tin  covers  rust  and  require  constant  scouring  to  keep  them 
bright,  but  they  are  inexpensive  and  can  be  easily  replaced 
when  too  rusty  to  scour  clean. 

A  shelf  over  the  sink  is  a  great  convenience.  Screw 
small  hooks  on  the  under  side  to  hang  up  brushes,  strainers 
and  small  articles  used  around  the  sink.  Keep  a  strainer  in 
the  sink  and  drain  all  the  garbage;  it  will  make  a  great  differ- 
ence in  the  cleanliness  of  the  garbage  pail;  especially  is 
it  a  good  plan  in  the  winter,  as  it  will  not  freeze  to  the  pail. 
Keep  a  mop  with  a  long  handle  within  easy  reach;  an 
oiled  floor  needs  to  have  spots  of  grease  or  water  removed  at 
once  in  order  to  have  it  satisfactory.  Use  no  water  on  it, 
the  mop  becomes  oily  with  constant  use,  and  cleans  the  floor 
without  the  use  of  water.  Dip  it  in  good  floor  oil  occasion- 
ally, and  mop  the  entire  floor.  This  should  not  be  necessary 
more  than  twice  a  month.  If  linoleum  is  on  the  floor,  use 
water  with  the  mop,  but  no  soap.  Hot  linseed  oil  applied 
occasionally  to  linoleum  cleanses  and  brightens  it,  as  well 
as  adds  to  its  wearing  qualities. 


328  WHATANDHOW 


KITCHEN  LIST. 

In  making  out  the  following  list  I  have  avoided  expense 
and  omitted  numerous  articles  that  might  be  classed  as  lux- 
uries, naming  only  those  necessary  for  the  equipment  of  a 
kitchen  for  a  family  of  six  persons.  The  number  of  each  article 
may  be  increased  or  decreased  to  suit  the  individual  need.  Tin 
utensils  are  cheaper  than  enamel,  but  much  harder  to  care 
for,  while  aluminum  is  more  expensive  still,  but  lasts  for 
years.  I  have  left  a  choice  here,  but  advise  as  few  tins  as 
possible  as  involving  much  labor. 


Furniture. 

One  table,  with  drop  leaves. 

One  table,  small,  within  reach  of  the  range. 

One  chair,  with  seat  20  inches  from  floor,  to  use  while 
working  at  a  table. 

One  small  rocking  chair,  for  the  maid's  comfort  when 
her  work  is  done. 

One  small  wall  chair. 

A  kitchen  cabinet,  unless  the  room  is  provided  with  ample 
dressers  and  closets. 

A  range,  for  coal  or  gas,  the  latter  is  indispensable  in  hot 
weather. 

A  good  fireless  cooker. 

One  folding  towel  rack. 

Wooden  Utensils. 

One  small  wooden  chopping  bowl. 

One  small  wooden  pestle  or  potato  masher. 

Two  bread  boards,  different  sizes. 

One  small  meat  board. 

One  zinc  covered  pastry  board. 

One  rolling  pin. 

Two  wooden  spoons,  one  with  slits  for  cake  mixing. 

One  flour  scoop. 

One  sugar  scoop. 


KITCHEN     AND     LAUNDRY  329 


Enamel  and  Tin  Ware. 

One  enamel  dish  pan,  round 

One  enamel  dish  pan,  oval. 

Two  soup  strainers,  with  extension  handles. 

One  puree  sieve,  with  pestle. 

Two  small  strainers  with  fine  mesh. 

One  enameled  colander. 

Three  enameled  spoons,  assorted  sizes. 

Two  flat  wire  spoons,  for  mixing  sauces. 

One  wire  whisk,  for  mixing  sauces. 

One  cream  dipper,  for  removing  cream  from  milk  bottles. 

One  Universal  bread  mixer. 

One  Universal  cake  mixer. 

Three  "Kleen  Cut"  cake  pans,  for  layer  cakes. 

Two  square  cake  pans,  Van  Dusen,  1^2  inches  deep. 

One  angel  food  pan,  or  Turk's  head. 

Two  white  enameled  pie  plates. 

Two  white  enameled  pudding  dishes,  different  sizes. 

Two  perforated  tin  pie  plates. 

Four  enameled  bowls,  assorted  sizes. 

One  double  boiler,  or  farina  kettle,  enameled  or  aluminum. 

Two  vegetable  kettles,  enameled. 

Two  saucepans,  with  long  handles. 

Four  omelet  pans,  assorted  sizes. 

Two  muffin  tins,  preferably  heavy  tin  or  enamelled. 

One  popover  tin. 

One  quart  measure. 

One  hanging  soap  cup,  white  enamel. 

One  tin  salt  box,  with  perforated  top. 

One  flour  dredge  box. 

One  flour  sieve. 

One  apple  corer. 

One  nutmeg  grater. 

One  perforated  cake  turner. 

One  perforated  dipper,  enameled. 

One  flat  bottomed  enamel  preserving  kettle. 

Tin  lids  to  fit  all  kettles. 

One  enameled  coffee  pot. 


330  WHAT    AND    HOW 


One  earthen  tea  pot. 
One  tin  bread  box. 
One  tin  cake  box. 
One  tin  skimmer. 
Two  funnels,  one  small. 
One  jar  funnel. 

Miscellaneous. 

One  vegetable  press,  with  round  perforated  strainer. 

Two  Dover  egg  beaters,  one  small  for  whipping  cream. 

One  can  opener. 

One  pair  scissors,  not  too  small. 

One  pair  pineapple  snips. 

One  potato  scoop,  for  cutting  balls. 

One  Mayonnaise  beater. 

One  pair  kitchen  scales. 

One  wire  cake  cooler. 

One  nickleplated  or  aluminum  tea  kettle. 

One  Enterprise  or  Universal  meat  chopper. 

One  cherry  stoner. 

Two  brushes  with  handles  for  washing  pots  and  kettles, 
the  best  have  "Electric"  on  the  back. 

One  Scotch  kettle,  for  deep  fat  frying. 

One  soup  kettle,  preferably  aluminum. 

Two  aluminum  sauce  pans,  with  long  handles. 

One  aluminum  frying  pan,  for  making  sauces. 

Two  iron  or  steel  frying  pans,  one  small. 

One  soapstone  griddle. 

One  steel  griddle  for  gas  stove. 

One  waffle  iron. 

Twelve  muffin  rings. 

Two  smallest  size  scrubbing  brushes,  one  for  washing 
vegetables,  the  other  for  fruit. 

One  small  fibre  bucket. 

One  flat  paint  brush  for  buttering  pans,  or  for  brushing 
with  egg  or  melted  butter. 

Two  Russia  iron  baking  sheets,  with  hemmed  edges,  and 
ring. 


use. 


KITCHEN     AND     LAUNDRY  331 


Four  Russia  iron  bread  pans,  small  size. 

One  Russia  iron  meat  pan. 

One  braising  pan. 

One  deep  pan  for  boiling  fish. 

One  ham  boiler.    A  small  clothes  boiler  will  answer. 

Two  small  Russia  iron  roasting  pans. 

One  cutter  for  latticed  potatoes. 

One  cutter  for  Saratoga  potatoes. 

Knives  and  Forks. 

One  large  meat  fork. 

One  large  carving  knife. 

One  small  carving  knife. 

One  paring  knife. 

One  broad  blade  knife  for  omelets,  etc. 

One  spatula  or  Teller  knife. 

Four  kitchen  knives,  for  kitchen  meals. 

Two  three  tined  forks,  for  making  pastry  and  for  general 

One  steel  for  sharpening  knives. 
Four  forks,  for  kitchen  meals. 
One  double  chopping  knife. 

China  and  Glass. 

Two  meat  dishes. 

Four  dinner  plates. 

Four  cups  and  saucers. 

Four  heavy  tumblers. 

One  glass  measuring  cup. 

One  aluminum  measuring  cup. 

One  china  sugar  bowl. 

One  china  milk  pitcher. 

One  water  pitcher,  stone  ware. 

Moulds  for  jelly  and  farina,  assorted  sizes. 

Moulds  small,  for  individual  service  and  timbales. 

Two  casseroles,  different  sizes. 

One  glass  lemon  squeezer. 

One  glass  dipper,  for  preserving,  etc. 

Four  bowls,  heavy  china  or  earthen  ware,  assorted  sizes. 


332  WHATANDHOW 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


The  day  seems  not  far  distant  when  the  family  laundry  will 
be  disposed  of  by  machinery  run  by  electricity  or  water  power, 
eliminating  hot  stoves,  wash  boards,  iron  holders  and  best  of 
all,  inexperienced  laundresses.  As  yet  the  expense  is  too  great, 
so  that  while  some  housekeepers  are  enjoying  their  up-to- 
date  laundry  work,  to  the  large  majority  it  is  still  an  anticipa- 
tion, but  a  washing  machine  run  by  water  power  is  within  the 
reach  of  many  women  to  whom  an  electric  washer  is  impossible, 
and  it  does  just  as  good  work.  Electric  irons  are  decreasing  in 
price  and  pay  for  themselves  at  once  in  the  saving  of  time 
and  labor.  A  gas  ironer  is  cleaner  and  cooler  than  a  stove,  and 
costs,  to  run,  no  more  than  the  stove,  if  as  much.  By  its  use, 
if  the  gas  is  used  intelligently,  the  irons  keep  the  right  tem- 
perature, ready  for  use  in  a  few  moments  after  lighting.  One 
person  ironing  uses  but  one  burner;  an  iron  heats  while  another 
one  is  being  used,  so  that  there  is  never  a  moment  when  the 
work  is  halted  for  irons  to  heat  or  cool. 

Ironing  Boards. 

Cover  the  board  with  several  thicknesses  of  newspapers, 
then  with  canton  flannel;  the  muslin  cover  goes  over  this. 
The  paper  makes  a  softer  and  thicker  padding  than  the 
blanket,  which  is  generally  used. 

To  Wash  Thin  Dresses. 

6  auarts  water  1  quarts  bran 

Boil  }4  hour,  strain  when  cold.  Use  no  soap  nor  starch, 
wash  lawns  and  thin  materials  of  all  kinds  in  this.  Especially 
useful  for  dark  colors  and  black  goods. 

To  Remove  Iron  Rust. 

Cover  the  spot  with  Salts  of  Sorrel,  pour  boiling  water 
over  it,  rub  gently  and  the  spot  will  disappear.  Rinse  at  once 
in  clear  water. 

Grass  Stain. 

Alcohol,  or  common  molasses  will  remove  grass  stain. 


KITCHEN     AND     LAUNDRY  333 


Tar,  or  Axle  Grease. 

Cover  with  lard,  rub  it  in  well  and  lay  aside  for  an  hour. 
Wash  in  tepid  water  and  soap. 

Machine  Oil 

Must  always  be  washed  out  with  soap  and  cold  water. 
Hot  water  sets  oil  stains. 

Coffee,  Tea,  Chocolate  and  Cocoa  Stains. 

May  be  scalded  out.     Do  not  allow  stains  to  remain  on 
table  linen,  but  remove  them  at  once. 

Paint. 

Soak  in  turpentine  or  benzine.     Hang  in  full  sunlight. 

Perspiration  Stain. 

Wash  out  with  soap  and  water  and  expose  to  the  sunlight. 

Scorch. 

Wet  spot  with  cold  water,  and  expose  to  sunlight. 

Wine  Stain. 

Cover  at  once  with  salt,  wash  out  in  boiling  water. 

Mildew. 

Cover  with  salt,  wet  with  lemon  juice  and  expose  to  the 
sun. 

Vaseline. 
Use  turpentine.     To  remove  turpentine  hang  out  in  the 
air  and  sun. 

Blood  Stains. 
Soak  in  cold  water  until  stains  turn  brown,  wash  out  in 
cold  water  and  soap. 

Old  Stains. 

When    stains    have    once    been    through    the    wash,    and 
especially  if  ironed  in,  they  are  very  difficult  to  remove.     Wet 


334  WHATANDHOW 


with  cold  water  and  cover  with  glycerine  and  let  stand  for 
three  hours;  wash  in  cold  water  and  soap  and  dry  where  the 
sun  will  shine  upon  the  place.     It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat. 


Javelle  Water. 

Javelle  water  is  useful  for  removing  stains,  but  requires 
to  be  thoroughly  washed  out  at  once,  as  it  contains  chloride 
of  lime. 

To  Wash  Blankets. 

Choose  a  warm  sunny  day.  To  wash  in  a  machine, 
make  a  good  suds  with  warm,  but  not  hot  water  and 
the  best  of  laundry  soaps.  If  blankets  have  been  separated, 
put  two  in  the  machine,  or  if  the  pair  has  not  been  separated, 
one.  Turn  machine  for  6  minutes.  Have  ready  a  tub  of 
water  of  the  same  temperature  as  that  in  the  machine,  un- 
screw wringer  so  that  blanket  will  go  through,  and  wring 
into  tub  of  water;  put  in  another  pair  of  blankets,  and  do  the 
same.  Now  run  off  the  water  in  the  machine,  fill  with  clear 
water,  carefully  keeping  water  at  same  temperature,  souse 
blankets  up  and  down  in  the  tub,  squeeze  but  do  not  twist. 
Now,  turning  the  wringer  backwards,  run  a  pair  of  blankets 
back  into  the  machine  and  turn  it  three  minutes.  Wring  out 
and  hang  on  the  line  with  the  stripes  running  across  line. 
This,  to  prevent  color  from  running  into  blanket.  It  will  be 
well  for  you  to  allow  an  assistant  to  do  the  hanging  out,  so 
that  the  other  pair  of  blankets  may  be  returned  to  the 
machine  and  rinsed  before  the  water  cools.  If  blankets  are 
much  soiled,  change  the  suds  after  each  pair  and  do  not  at- 
tempt to  wash  in  dirty  water  or  your  blankets  will  be 
streaked.  Of  course,  finish  rinsing  the  first  pair  before  start- 
ing the  second.  Keep  water  as  near  the  temperature  of  out- 
side air  as  is  possible  to  do.  A  sudden  change  of  temperature 
will  harden  the  woolen  fibre  and  cause  blankets  to  shrink. 

If  a  machine  is  not  available,  use  four  tubs,  do  not  rub 
soap  on  the  blankets,  and  never  twist  or  rub  them.  Squeeze 
suds  through  thoroughly. 


KITCHEN    AND    LAUNDRY  335 


Madras  and  Net  Curtains. 

Make  bran  suds,  as  described  for  thin  goods  and  use  no 
starch  or  soap.  If  without  curtain  stretchers,  tack  a  sheet  to 
the  floor,  and  pin  curtains  on  it,  stretching  into  shape.  Never 
iron  thin  curtains. 

Lace  Curtains. 

Lace  curtains  may  be  washed  in  the  bran  water.  If  very 
much  soiled,  soak  over  night  in  suds  made  with  a  good  soap, 
rinse  well,  and  then  squeeze  through  bran  water.  Stretch  on 
frames. 


When  You  Make  Cake! 


W 


Nothing  gives  such  wonderful  re- 
sults in  home  made  cake  as  Swans 
Down  Cake  Flour!  Try  it  in  any 
good  recipe.  You  can  have  lighter, 
whiter,  finer,  better  cake — pie 
crust — pastry,  just  as  you  long  to 
have  it. 

Swans  Down  costs  only  a  few  cents 
each  making,  and  yet  it  saves  all 
the  costly  waste  of  cake  dis- 
appointments. 

"Cake  Secrets",  an  authoritative 
booklet  by  Janet  McKenzie  Hill, 
gladly  sent  for  ten  cents.  Illus- 
trated. 

Swans  Down  has  been  the 
grocers'  choice  for  25  years 

IGLEHEART     BROTHERS 

Evansville,  Indiana 

Established  1856 

Also  manufacturers  of 

Swans  Down  Wheat  Bran 

Nature's    Laxative    Food 

SWANS  DOWN 

Prepared  (Not  Self-Rising) 

CAKE  FLOUR 

Preferred  by  Housewives  for  25  Years 


^JJ 


I 


PttNSDOWN 


-» 


■VVV 


&   : 


is.  i  _a  • 
MA.JL 


i  > 


L> 


\  f; 


T 


RECOMMENDED  AND  SOLD  BY 

Any  good  Grocer. 


Before  attempting  to  make  any  cakes  in  this  book,  read  this  article.  It  may  prevent  a 
cake  failure,  thereby  saving  the  waste  of  ingredients.  These  are  the  four  most  important 
steps  in  cake-making,  and  if  followed  carefully  will  help  you  to  make  really,  good  cake. 

Qood  Qakc  Baking 

SELECTING 
^  INGREDIENTS 

- — ^\.7  j^^fetetogt  A  good  cake  can- 

not  be   made   with 
\,  poor     ingredients. 

mm  For  the  best  results 

mm  SHI  choose      only      the 

purest  materials  ob- 
tainable. Cake  is  a 
food  that  contains 
the  most  nutritive 
elements,  such  as 
eggs,  butter,  milk, 
sugar,  flour,  etc. 
Cake  is  more  deli- 
\^  ^""  cate  than  bread  and 

^8Sj>|||  '  ,  needs  a  more  deli- 

^"~~'*-~--— — ■-___  --"""'  cate     flour.       This 

""         * "*  flour     is     Swans 

Down    Cake   Flour, 
soft,  white  and  velvety,  made  especially  for  cake  and  pastry  making.     Swans  Down  costs 
but  a  few  cents  more  per  cake  and  yet  it  insures  against  disappointment  and  costly  cake 
failures.     Lighter,    whiter,    finer,    better    cakes    if    you    use 
Swans  Down. 


MEASURING 


All  ingredients  called  for  in  any  good  recipe  must  be 
accurately  mixed  and  all  measurements  should  be  level. 
This  is  necessary  in  order  to  obtain  the  same  results  in  each 
baking.  The  standard  one-half  pint  measuring  cup  should 
be  used  and  the  recipe  followed  exactly. 


CAREFUL  MIXING 
It  is  necessary  in  successful  cake 
making  that  all  ingredients  be  perfectly 
measured  and  utensils  and  cake  tins 
be  ready  before  beginning  to  mix  the 
cake.  Always  beat  the  shortening  to 
a  cream  before  adding  any  sugar.  Add 
sugar  gradually,  creaming  the  mixture 
meanwhile.  Add  a  little  sifted 
Swans  Down  Cake  Flour,  with  baking 
powder  added,  then  a  little  milk  and 
so  on  alternately  until  all  the  flour  and 
milk  is  used.  Beat  the  batter,  never 
stirring,  after  each  addition  of  flour 
and  milk.  Add  flavoring.  The  stiffly-beaten  egg-wbites  should  next  be  folded  in  very 
carefully   if  recipe  calls  for  same.     Work  quickly,  but  carefully,  in  mixing  your  cake. 


CORRECT    OVEN    HEAT 

The  heat  of  oven  for  cake  making  is  of  very 
great  importance.  There  are  some  general  guides 
for  temperature  which  may  be  profitably  observed. 
All  thin  layer,  small  cakes  and  cookies  require  a 
hot  oven  (350-375°  F.)  Thick  layer  and  cakes  baked 
in  a  loaf  require  a  moderate  oven  (325-350°  F.) 
while  sponge  cakes  and  angel  cakes  require  a  slow 
oven  (250-300°  F.)  Fruit  cakes  require  even  a 
slower  oven  (225-250°  F.) 


The  helpful  hints  above  are  taken  from  "Cake  Secrets,"  an 
authoritative  booklet  on  cake  making  by  Janet  McKenzie  Hill, 
editor  of  American  Cookery  Magazine.  You  are  welcome  to 
copy,  full  of  original  recipes,  directions,  illustrations — for  10c 
sent  to  Igleheart  Brothers,  Evansville,  Indiana,  Department  G-6. 
Best  grocers  everywhere  have  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour.  If  you 
cannot  get  it,  write  us.     Use  it  in  your  cake  and  pastry  making. 


Always  use  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  in  all  cake  recipes  given  in  this  book  and  elsewhere. 
It  insures  lighter,  whiter,  finer  cake. 


Cooked  Chicken  of  the  Finest  Quality 


Fine  for  Salad, 

Sandwiches 

and  Creamed 

Chicken 


PACKED  BY 

Richardson  &  Robbins  Co. 

DOVER,  -  DELAWARE 


Why  will  CRISCO 
Improve  Your 
Cooking? 


CRISCO  is  sold  the  right  way,  by  nmt 
weight,  in  sanitary  containers,  nmvmr 
in  bulk.  One  pound  and  larger  sizes. 
At  all  good  grocers. 


—Because  CRISCO  is  100%  rich— a 
solid  white  cooking  fat  produced 
by  hardening  edible  vegetable  oil. 
This  richness  accounts  for  the 
tender  flakiness  of  Crisco  pastry 
and  biscuits,  and  the  butter -like 
quality  of  Crisco  cakes.  (Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  for  each  cupful 
of  Crisco  in  Cake.) 

— Because  CRISCO  has  no  taste, 
no  color,  no  odor.  It  does  not  make 
foods  look,  taste  nor  smell  greasy. 
It  lets  the  natural  food  flavors 
prevail. 

—Because  CRISCO  is  a  digestible 
fat.  This  is  because  it  is  strictly 
vegetable.  The  richest  fried  foods 
and  pastries  can  be  eaten  safely  if 
they  are  shortened  with  Crisco. 

Try  CRISCO  and  see  for  yourself 
what  an  improvement  it  is. 


FOOD  AND  COOKERY 

FOR  THE 

Sick  and  Convalescent 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMAR 


THE  COMPLETE  COOK  BOOK 

By  MARION  HARLAND 


THE  NEW  HOSTESS  OF  TODAY 
A  Book  of  Unusual  Recipes 

By  LINDA  HULL  LARNED 


WHAT  AND  HOW 

(SECOND  EDITION) 

A  Practical  and  Economical  Cook  Book 

By  MRS.  WALTER  D.  BUSH 


THESE  BOOKS  FOR  SALE  BY 

The  Greenwood  Bookshop 

Wilmington,  Delaware 


337 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


A 

PAGE 

Absorbent  Paper 11 

Albumen,  Orange 320 

"           Water 319 

"           "           with  beef  extract.  .  319 

Almonds,  to  blanch 15 

■         candied 273 

"         salted 196 

Ambrosia 152 

Angel  Parfait 187 

Angel  Dreams 277 

Apollinaris  Lemonade 28 

Apple  Compote 281 

"       Cups 163 

"       Custard 144 

■  Dumplings 162 

"       Dumplings,  steamed 162 

"       Fritters 210 

"       Meringue 143 

"       Pie 176 

■  Sauce  Croquettes 262 

■  Sauce 284 

"       Snow 152 

"       Trifle 152 

Apples,  Baked  I,  II,  III 283 

"       Buttered 162 

"      Dried 284 

"       Jellied 154 

"       Stewed 144 

Asparagus 102 

Au  gratin  defined 12 


B 


Bacon,  crisp 206 

Baking,  definition  of 9 

Baking  Sheets,  Russia  Iron 14 

Bananas 279 

Banana  Charlotte 150 

Banana  Fritters 210 

Banbury  Tarts 181 

Basting 13 

Batter  defined 13 

"        a  la  Creole 210 

"        for  fruit  fritters 210 

Bavarian  Cream 156 

"             "      Pineapple 155 

"             "      Raspberry 156 

"             "      Strawberry 156 

Beans,  baked  in  fireiess  cooker 310 


PAGE 

Beans,   Black,  soup 39 

"       Boston  baked 103 

"       Butter 103 

"       Lima  dried 103 

"           "     dried 103 

"       String 102 

Beauregard  Cod 53 

Beef,  to  select 64 

Beef,  braised 65 

"     en  Casserole 308 

"      Corned  Minced 190 

"      Corned,  with  egg 190 

"     frizzled 192 

"     fresh  chipped 192 

"     mince  of 189 

"     roast 65 

"     pot  roast 66 

"     roll 70 

"     sliced 67 

Beef  Tea 321 

Beets 104 

"     pickled 302 

Berries 279 

Berry  Surprise 186 

Biscuit,   dough 67 

"         potato 235 

"         quick 235 

tea 235 

Blackberry  Vinegar 29 

Blanc  Mange,  Chocolate 149 

Irish  Moss 325 

Blankets,  to  wash 334 

Blood  Stains,  to  remove 333 

Boiling 9 

Bordeaux  Sauce 304 

Bottling  and  Sealing 14 

Boquet,  Soup 17 

Braising 11 

Bread  and  Bread  Making 230 

Bread  and  Rolls 230 

Bread,  brown 232 

"       griddle 232 

"       milk 231 

"       nut 249 

"       potato 232 

"       Pudding  I,  II 145 

"       raisin 249 

"       rye 232 

"       Southern  batter 237 

"       whole  wheat 232 

Brewis 226 


338 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Broiling 9 

"        pan 9 

Broth,  chicken  I,  II 820 

III 321 

"          "        jellied 321 

"    clam 320 

*    mutton 322 

"    Scotch 73 

Brown  Betty  1 143 

"     II 144 

Brussels  Sprouts 104 

"              "       scalloped 104 

Buckwheat  Cakes 243 

Butter  Brush 16 

Butter  to  wash 15 

Buttered  Crumbs 11 

Butters  for  Sandwiches 314 

Butter  Substitute 242 


Cabbage . 105 

u         au  gratin 105 

■         Italian 105 

*        salad 105 

Cafe  Frappe" . 188 

Cake 250 

"     Angel 257 

"     Boston  Favorite 257 

"     Caramel 253 

"     Chocolate 253 

"     Drexel  Layer 251 

"     Fruit  I,  II 255 

a     Gingerbread 258 

Ideal 258 

Raisin 258 

"  "  without  eggs 258 

u     Gold  I,  II 256 

"     Huckleberry 257 

"     Orange 252 

«     Poverty 259 

"     Quick 254 

"     Richer  layer 252 

"     Sedgeley 254 

8     Silver 256 

v     Sponge 253 

b     Sponge  Cream 256 

■     Strawberry  Short,  I,  II,  HI...  261 

"     Washington  Pie 259 

"    White  Mountain 252 

Cakes 

Almond  Rings 264 

Chocolate  Sponge 260 

Cocoa  Buns 260 


PAGE 

Cookies,  Boston 265 

"         Brandywine 266 

"         Christmas 262 

"         Minquedale 263 

"         Molasses 262 

Cookies,  Nuts  and  Raisins . . .  262 

Peanut 263 

Derries 261 

Ginger  Gems 260 

Ginger  Snaps 265 

Jackson  Jumbles 264 

Macaroons 264 

Macaroon  Powder 264 

Nuggets 259 

Oatmeal  Wafers 265 

Ringle  Roses 265 

Sand  Tarts 263 

Scotch  cakes 266 

Soft  ginger 266 

Spice  cakes 260 

Sponge  cakes 260 

Calf's  Head,  mould  of 192 

"          "      soup 34 

"     Liver 78 

Canapes  and  Sandwiches 312 

Canape  Anchovy 312 

■  Bellevue 312 

"       Cheese 313 

"       Crab 313 

"       Daisy 313 

"       Manhattan 312 

"       Sardines  or  Caviare 312 

Candy 269 

"       Bryn  Mawr  Penutchie 273 

■  ButterScotch 272 

"       Candied  Almonds 273 

"       Caramels 274 

"       Cream  Mints 270 

"       Cream  Walnuts 271 

"       Date  Creams  1 271 

II 271 

Candy  Fondant 269 

Coffee 270 

.    "            "        colored 270 

maple 269 

"             "         pink 271 

"             "         uncooked 270 

"       Fudge  I,  II 273 

"       Maple  Penutchie 274 

"       Mint  Marshmallows 270 

"       Molasses  Taffy 272 

"       Nut  Creams 271 

"       Nut  Molasses 272 

"       Peanut  Brittle 272 

u      Pecan  Pralines 274 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


S39 


PAGE 

Candy,  Peppermint  Drops 270 

8       Taffv 272 

"       Tie-Tac 274 

■       Vinegar 271 

Canning 294 

Canned   Fruits 

"         Cherries 295 

"         Peaches 294 

Pears  1 294 

"     II 295 

"         Pineapples 295 

"         Quinces 295 

"         Rhubarb 295 

Small  Fruits 295 

Blackberries 295 

Canned   Vegetables 296 

Cold  Packed...   297 

"  "  Beets 297 

Sweet   Red 

Peppers 297 

"  ■  Tomatoes 296 

Tomatoes     and 

Okra  296 
"       whole  296 

Cantelopes 279 

"        sweet  pickled 300 

Capers,  defined 17 

Carmelize,  To 12 

Carrots 106 

Casserole  and  Fireless  Cooker 306 

8       Beef 308 

8       Calf's  Liver 311 

8       Chicken 307 

8  ■         with  rice  border.   308 

8       Creole 308 

"       Lamb  Chops 309 

8      Minced  Veal 308 

Cauliflower 106 

Cauliflower,  puree  of 43 

8  au  gratin 106 

Celery 106 

8     stewed  I,  II 107 

*     Toast 207 

Cereals 225 

Chafing  Dish 275 

*         "     Angel  Dreams 277 

8         "     Creamed  Chicken 275 

Lobster 275 

8         "     English  Monkey 276 

8         "     Sauce 275 

8         "     Sardines  grilled 277 

8         "     Scotch  Woodcock 276 

8         "     Suggestions  for  the .  .  .   277 
8         8     Welsh  Rabbit  I,  II...   276 


PAGB 

Charlotte  Russe  1 159 

■  II 159 

■  III 159 

"       IV 160 

Cheese 

"      Balls 215 

8      Cottage 207 

8     Cream 209 

8      Croquettes 202 

"     Dainties 207 

"     Fondu 208 

"     Moulds 208 

8      Parmesan 228 

"     Pudding 208 

8     Souffle* 209 

"     Toast 209 

Cherries 280 

■       Spiced 301 

Cherry  Dumplings 163 

Chestnuts,  to  shell 15 

Chicken,   To  select 82 

8  a  la  King 194 

baked  fricassee 85 

8  boiled 83 

8  broiled 84 

8  broth,  jellied 193 

8  creamed 194,  324 

creamed  in  chafing  dish .  .  .   275 

8  Croquettes  1 199 

II 200 

fricassee 86 

8  fried 85 

8  jellied 193 

Marion  Harland's  pilau  of    87 

"  mould 194 

8  omelet 324 

8  pie  1 88 

pie  II 88 

pie  III 88 

8  puree 325 

8  roast 83 

8  salad 136 

saut6  a  la  Creole 86 

smothered 84 

8  soup  I,  II 35 

stewed 85 

Chili  Dressing 131 

Chili  Sauce 305 

Chives,  defined 17 

Chocolate 26 

Blanc  Mange 149 

Chocolate  Pudding 145 

Chocolate  Pudding,  bread 144 

Chocolate  Stains,  to  remove 333 

Chowder,  Clam  I,  II 38 

8        kornlet 43 


340 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Chow  Chow 303 

Chutney 300 

Clams,  to  open 59 

Clam  bisque 37 

"  "       with  tomato 37 

"       Chowder  I,  II 38 

"       Cocktails 58 

"       Fritters 211 

"       Soup  1 36 

"     II 37 

Clams,  scalloped  1 59 

II 59 

"       steamed 59 

Clinkers,  coal 17 

Club  Sandwich  1 212 

II 213 

Cocoa 26 

Cocoa,  to  make 26 

Cocoa  stains,  to  remove 333 

"     with  egg 326 

Cod,  Beauregard 53 

Codfish  balls 52 

"       boiled 45 

-   "       creamed 52 

8       creamed  in  ramekins 53 

"       Souffle 52 

Coffee 24 

"     after  dinner 25 

"     boiled 24 

Coffee  Cream 150 

"     filtered 25 

u     iced  1 30 

II 30 

"     infusion 15 

"     percolated 24 

"     souffle" 155 

"     stains,  to  remove 333 

"       to  make  three  cups 26 

■       Vienna 26 

Cold  Desserts 142 

Cold  Meat,  to  serve 190 

Cold  Slaw 105 

Compotes 

"  apple 281 

"  apple,  whole 282 

"  fruit 281 

"  fruit  with  rice 283 

"  green  gage 282 

"  peach 282 

"  pear 282 

"  pineapple 282 

"  syrup  for 281 

Consomme 33 

"         quick 33 

Cooking,  Methods  of 9 


PAGE 

Corn  Bread  Baltimore  Inn 237 

"         "       white  meal 236 

"         "       yellow  meal 236 

Corn  Meal  Gems 239 

Corn  fritters 108 

"     green 107 

"     green,  boiled 107 

"     green,  stewed 107 

"     pudding  1 107 

II 108 

Corned  Beef,  with  egg 190 

"           "     minced 190 

Cornstarch  Float 150 

Cottage  Cheese 207 

Cottage  Cheese  Pudding 208 

Cottage  Pie 189 

Cottage  Pudding 164 

Crabapple  Jelly 

Crabs,  a  la  Newburg 195 

Crabs,   to  boil 63 

"       Devilled  I,  II,  III 63 

"       Soft  Shell 50 

Cranberry  Jelly  1 285 

"     '      "       II 285 

Sauce 286 

Cream  Soups 40 

Cream,  to  whip 16 

Creamed  Lobster 62 

Croquettes 199 

"        apple  sauce 202 

Bean 201 

"         Cheese 202 

"         Chicken  1 199 

II 200 

Hominy 204 

"        Lamb 201 

Meat  1 200 

"       II 201 

u         Oyster  1 202 

"       II 203 

"         Potato 201 

Rice  I,  II 204 

"         To  shape 13 

Veal 201 

Crullers  I,  II 248 

Crumbs,  buttered 11 

Crumb,  Egg  and  Crumb 11 

Crumbs,  Fresh 13 

Crumbs  dry 13 

Cucumber  Boats 132 

Cups 132 

Cucumbers 108 

fried 108 

Curtains,  To  wash 335 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


341 


PAGE 

Custard,  boiled 147 

"       baked 147 

8       Caramel,  baked 148 

boiled 148 

"       Cup 147,  325 

Cutlets,   souffle 191 

"         to  shape 13 

Veal 75 


PAGE 

3,  scrambled 217 

8     shirred 217 

"     Spanish 219 

"     tomato 219 

Egg  Plant,  baked 109 

"       "       fried 109 

"       "       scalloped 109 

English  Monkey 27G 


D 

Dessert,  quick,  a 153 

Devilled  eggs 135 

Dough  defined 14 

Doughnuts   1 247 

II 247 

Quick  1 248 

8       II 248 

Dredge,  To 12 

Dripping 11 

Dry  Crumbs 13 

Duck,  Roast 91 

"       Wild 92 

Dumplings  for  Soups  and  Stews ....  40 


E 

Easter  Pudding 160 

Eccles  Cakes 181 

■  Egg  and  crumb 11 

"    lemonade 319 

'   "    nogg 320 

"    Sauce 54 

"    Toast 324 

216 

8     a  la  Martin 217 

8     "  "  Newburg 218 

8     baked 221 

8     baked  souffl6  of 220 

"     boiled 216 

8     club 219 

■     coddled 216 

8     Daffodils 220 

"     devilled 136 

"     dropped,  with  white  sauce ....   219 

8     en  surprise 220 

"     fried  with  bacon 217 

"     Holland 218 

8     in  a  nest 217 

8     luncheon 218 

"     mince  of  ham  with 218 

8     omelet 221 

8     poached 216 


F 

Farina 228 

Fat,  Testing  for  frying 10 

"     to  clarify 11 

Fig  Pudding 166 

Filllings,  caramel 253 

"         chocolate 268 

8         Orange 268 

8         Sedgeley 254 

"         tuttifrutti 268 

"         White  Mountain 252 

Fireless  Cooker 309 

"       Baked  Beans  in ...  .   310 
8  "       Beef  kidneys  stewed 

in 310 

Fish,  To  select 44 

Fish  and  Meat  Sauces 94 

Fish,  baked 46 

"     baked  stuffed 46 

8     bay  trout 44 

8     blue  fish 44 

■     boiled 44 

"     boiled  whole 45 

"     butter  fish 44 

"     cod,  boiled 45 

8     cod,  salt,  boiled 45 

"     cutlets 49 

8     fillets  of 51 

8     flakes,  creamed 54 

8     Finnan  Haddie 54 

"     Flounder 45 

8     flounder,  fillet  of 50 

"     fried 49 

8        "     cutlets 49 

8     haddock 44 

8     halibut,  baked  1 47 

"  "  «     II 48 

8       Creole 51 

8     herring 44 

8     mackerel 44 

salt 54 

8  "         creamed,  salt 54 

"     moulded 51 

8     perch 44 


342 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Fish,  porgies 44 

"    puree 43 

"     salmon  (smoked) 55 

*  scallop 53 

"    sea  bass 45 

"     shad,  broiled 49 

"     shad,  planked 48 

"     shad  roe 49 

"     smoked 55 

u     sheep's  head 44 

"     shell 55 

u    smelts 49 

u     stuffed 50 

"    stuffing  I,  II 47 

"     white,  smoked 55 

Flummery 149 

Folding  in 12 

Fondant..... 269 

French  dressing 130 

Fritters  and  Pancakes 209 

Fritters,  apple  1 ,11 210 

u        banana 210 

"         batter  for  fruit 210 

"         batter  Creole 210 

u         Clam 211 

*         kornlet 212 

Peach 211 

Queen 211 

Fruit,  Fresh,  Preserved  and  Canned  279 

Fruit  Charlotte 161 

u     Compotes 281 

"     dish  of 281 

*  press 286 

«    shells 176 

Frying,  Rules  for 10 


PAGE 

Griddle  Cakes 242 

u     bread  crumb 245 

"           "     buckwheat 243 

"     corn  meal 245 

"     corn  slappers 244 

"           "     flannel 243 

"     green  corn 245 

"           *     oatmeal 244 

"     rice  I,  II 244 

"           "     wholewheat 243 

Griddle,  spapstone 15 

Griddle,  steel 15 

Gumbo 35 


H 


Halibut  baked  1 47 

"       II 48 

"         Creole 51 

Ham 79 

"      boiled 79 

"     baked 80 

"     chipped 80 

"     cream,  mince  of 190 

"     fried 80 

"     minced,  with  eggs 191 

"     slices  of,  cooked 80 

Hamburg  Steak 70 

Hominy,  boiled 110 

"         breakfast 110 

"         croquettes 110 

grits 110 

pudding 110 

Hot  Beverages  and  Cold  Drinks 24 


Garlic  defined 17 

Gas,  Time  table  for  gas  range 19 

Gas,  To  use  economically 18 

Gelatine 152 

Ginger  Pears 291 

Goose,  roast 91 

Graham  muffins 239 

u        puffs 240 

Grape  Fruit 280 

Grape  juice 29 

Grapes 280 

Grass  Stains,  To  remove 332 

Gravies 99 

Grease,  Axle 333 


Ice  Cream  and  Frozen  Fruits 182 

Ice  Cream,  To  freeze 182 

Ice  Cream,  banana 183 

"       bisque 184 

*         "       chocolate 184 

"         "       frozen  custard 183 

"       with  fruit 183 

"         "       maple  sugar 184 

"         "       pineapple 184 

"         "       strawberry 184 

8       Vanilla  1 183 

u         «  "       II 183 

Icings  and  Fillings 267 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


343 


PAGE 

Icing,  boiled 267 

"     chocolate  1 267 

"             "         II 267 

"     cocoa 267 

"     coffee 268 

"     maple  sugar 267 

"     orange 267 

"     pink 268 

"     plain  white 268 

Indian  Meal  Mush  I,  II 229 

Irish  Moss 819 

"     Blanc  Mange 325 

Irish  Stew 72 

Iron  Rust,  To  remove 332 

Ironing  Board 332 

Italian  Cream 155 


Jam,  blackberry 289 

"     currant  and  raspberry 289 

"     green  gooseberry  and  raspberry  289 

"     raspberry 289 

Javelle  Water 334 

Jellied  apples 154 

■  chicken 193 

"       oranges 156 

Jelly 286 

Jelly  Bags,  To  make 14 

Jelly,   apple 288 

"       crabapple 288 

"       cranberry  1 285 

II 285 

"       currant 287 

"       currant  and  raspberry 288 

"       grape 288 

"      lemon 157 

■  mint 288 

"       orange 157 

"       quince 288 

"       rice 326 

■  tapioca 326 

"       tomato 134 

"      wine 157,  325 

Jelly  with  fruit 157 

Jelly  to  mould 158 

Junket,  coffee 161 

Junket  desserts 161 

Junket,  vanilla 161 

Junket,  with  whipped  cream 161 


K 

PAGE 

Kellogg  and  Cary 68 

Kidneys,  Beef,  stewed 205 

Kidneys,    Beef,    stewed    in    fireless 

cooker 310 

Kidneys,  fried 205 

"         Lamb  1 206 

"     II 206 

"        Omelet 223 

Veal 206 

Kitchen  and  Laundry 327 

Kitchen  List 328 


Lamb  chops 74 

"       chops,  breaded 74 

"       chops,  pan  broiled 74 

"       cream  mince  of 190 

u       croquettes 201 

"       crown  roast 72 

"      Roast 71 

Lamb  and  Mutton 71 

Laundry,  The 332 

Lemon  Cups 191 

Lemonade  1 27 

II 27 

Appollinaris 28 

Egg 319 

■  English 29 

*  Pineapple 28 

u  Syrup 27 

Lettuce 109 

Liver,  Calf's 78 

"       Terrapin 206 

Lobster,  To  open 60 

a       a  la  Newburg 195 

"       baked 61 

u       broiled  whole 60 

"       creamed 62 

"       cutlets 62 

"      farci 62 

"      fried 61 

"      scalloped 62 

Luncheon  and  Supper 189 


M 

Macaroni 227 

Macaroni,  baked 227 


344 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Macaroni,  Baked  with  cheese 227 

"        boiled 227 

"         Italian 228 

"        with  cheese 227 

Macaroon  Souffle 164 

Macedoine  Pineapple 148 

Machine  Oil,  To  remove 333 

Mackerel,   salt 54 

"               "     creamed 54 

Manhattan  Club  Sandwich 213 

Manhattan  Steak 68 

Marinate,  To 12 

Marmalade,  apple  and  quince 289 

ginger  pear 291 

"           grape  fruit  I,  II 290 

u          green  gage 291 

orange 291 

u          peach 290 

"           pear 291 

"          plum  conserve 291 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 130 

Measuring 18 

Meat,  Cold,  Serving  of 190 

■       Croquettes  1 200 

II 201 

"       pie 69 

"      Soup,  How  to  use 32 

Mildew,  To  remove 833 

Milk,  If  disagrees 320 

Mill,  To 12 

Mince  Meat 177 

Mint  Cup 27 

"     Tulip 27 

Mould  and  Chill,  To 14 

Moulded  Snow 149 

Mouse,  Coffee 187 

Mousse,  defined 182 

"        Golden 187 

"         To  mould 182 

*         Pineapple 187 

"         Strawberry 186 

Muffins,  Waffles  and  Griddle  Cakes  238 

Muffins   1 238 

II 238 

■         Blueberry 238 

English 239 

"         Graham 239 

"         Hominy 239 

"         Kornlet 241 

"        Rice 238 

WholeWheat 240 

Mush  Bread 237 

Mush,  Indian  Meal  I,  II 229 

Mushrooms,  Baked Ill 

Mushrooms,  Stewed Ill 


PAGE 

Mutton,  braised 71 

"         Boiled  leg  of 72 

"         Chops,  breaded 74 

Chops,  English 74 

"        Duck 72 


N 


Nutmeg,  Dash  of 12 


O 

Oatmeal  Mush  with  apples 323 

Okra Ill 

"     Creole  Style 112 

"    Stewed  I,  II 112 

"     with  tomatoes 112 

Omelet,  American 224 

"         au  fines  herbes 224 

"        Baked 198 

"         Bread 222 

Chicken 324 

French 221 

Kidney 223 

Kornlet 199 

"         Mushroom 221 

"         Oyster 224 

Parsley 223 

Spanish 222 

"         with  Bacon 223 

"     Minced  Ham 223 

"             "     Fried  Onions 223 

■             "     Tomato  Sauce 222 

Onions,  Baked,  1 113 

"       Baked,  II 113 

"      Souffle" 113 

"       Stewed 112 

Onion  Juice,  To  extract 12 

Oranges 280 

"         Creole  style 151 

Jellied 156 

Oven,  The  Coal  Range 7 

"       Temperature 7 

8       Gas 8 

Oysters  and  Clams  Served  Raw ....  58 

Oyster  Bisque 37 

"       Broiled 57 

"       Cocktails 58 

"       Creamed 55 

"       Croquettes  1 202 

"              "          II 203 

u       Croustade 56 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


345 


PAGE 

Oysters,  fried 58 

kornlet 198 

"         panned 57 

■         patties 58 

pickled 203 

"         roast 56 

"         sauce 84 

"         scalloped 56 

"         soup 36 

"         stewed 55 


Paint,  To  remove 333 

Panada 323 

Pancakes 212 

Jelly 212 

Paprika,  defined 17 

Paraffin  or  Parowax 287 

Parfait,   defined 182 

"         Angel 187 

Parmesan  Cheese 228 

Parsley  Butter 121 

■  Dried 318 

■  To  keep 318 

Partridges 92 

Pastry 172 

"      To  bake 172 

"       Plain 174 

"       Puff  Paste 173 

"       Shells 176 

8       Suet 174 

8       Summer 174 

Patties 175 

Peach  Cobbler 176 

"     Cream  Pudding 150 

8     Cups 163 

8     Fritters 211 

u    Mangoes 301 

Peaches, 280 

"         dried 284 

8         Preserved  I,  II 293 

Peanuts  Salted 197 

Pears   and  Plums 280 

8       spiced 301 

Peas,  green, 113 

8         "       canned 114 

"         *       with  cream  sauce 114 

Pepper,  Dash  of 12 

Peppers,  Stuffed 114 

"         Stuffed,  Sauce  for 114 

8        Sweet  Red,  Canned 297 

8         with  sweetbread  stuffing. .  115 


PAGE 

Pepper  Sauce  I,  II 302 

Perspiration  Stains,  To  remove 333 

Pickle,  Oil 303 

*       Pretty 303 

Pickled  Beets 302 

"       Cantelopes 300 

"       Cherries 299 

"       Onions 304 

"       Peaches 299 

"       Peach  Mangoes 301 

"       Peaches,  whole 299 

"       Plums 299 

"       Ripe  Tomatoes 302 

■      yellow     "       301 

Pickles. 

"        Bordeaux  Sauce 304 

Chili "     305 

Chow  Chow 303 

"         Chutney 300 

"         Cold  Tomato 304 

8         green  tomato  soy 304 

"         Sweet  and  Sour 299 

Pie 

8    apple 176 

"    apple  custard 180 

"    apple,  French 177 

"    apple,  Irish 176 

"    Banberry  tarts  and 181 

"    filling  for 181 

"    barred 178 

"    blackberry 177 

"  chicken  I,  II,  III 88 

"  cocoanut  I,  II 179 

"  cottage 189 

"  lemon  custard  1 178 

"       "             "       II 179 

8       "       meringue 178 

"  making 174 

"  meat 69 

"  pumpkin  1 179 

"       II 180 

"  sweet  potato  custard 180 

8  To  glaze  a 173 

8  veal 78 

8  Washington 259 

Pimento,  defined 17 

Pineapple  cream 154 

"         Lemonade 28 

"         Macedoine 148 

8         meringue 154 

Plum  Pudding 166 

8           "           frozen 188 

Plums,  sweet  pickled 

Poke  Stalks 102 

Popovers 241 

Pork,  To  select 78 


346 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Pork  Chops 79 

8     crown  roast  of 79 

8     roast  loin  of 79 

8     roast  tenderloin  of 79 

Potatoes  au  gratin 126 

8        baked 121 

balls 124 

8        balls 203 

"        boiled 121 

"        boiled  in  jackets 122 

8        cakes 126 

8        cone 123 

■         creamed 125 

"         croquettes 201 

8        Duchess 122 

u         French  fried 126 

8         hashed  browned 125 

*  hashed  creamed 125 

8         Kilcannon 122 

8         latticed 126 

8         Lyonnaise 125 

8         mashed 122 

8        new 124 

8         omelet 123 

8         on  half  shell 123 

8        Plainficld 123 

8         pudding 124 

8        Saratoga  Chips 126 

"        Saute* 126 

*  Souffle* 124 

Poultry  and  Game 82 

Poultry,  To  select 82 

Preserves 292 

Preserving  kettles 286 

Prune  Pudding 142 

Prunes  285 

8       raw 285 

Puddings 

Pudding,  apple  custard 144 

8      meringue 143 

*            "      tapioca  I,  II 146 

8        Bread  I,  II 145 

8         Brown  Betty  1 143 

8     II 144 

8         cheese 208 

8         cherry  tapioca 146 

8         chocolate 145 

"         chocolate,   steamed 164 

8                 "           bread 144 

8         cottage 164 

8         cottage  cheese 208 

8        Easter 160 

8         fig 166 

8         fruit 167 

"        kornlet 199 

8         peach  cream 150 


PAGE 

Pudding,  plum 166 

8         plum  frozen 188 

*         prune  142 

8         Queen  of 142 

"         rice 142 

"         rice,  frozen 186 

"         Rhubarb  Betty 143 

8        Roger  Rock 163 

8        sauces 168 

8         sago 164 

8         snow 158 

8         St.  James 166 

8         suet 165 

8         tapioca  cream 146 

Punch,  fruit 28 

8       Victoria 28 

Purees 43 

Puree  of  Cauliflower 43 

"       "  chestnuts 43 

8       "  fish  remnants 43 

8       "  lima  beans 43 

8       "  mushrooms 43 

"       "  peas 43 


Queen  fritters 21 

Queen  of  Puddings 142 


R 


Rabbits,  stewed 93 

Radishes 116 

Radish  tulips 116 

Raisin  bread 249 

Ramekins,  defined 14 

Raspberry  Bavarian  Cream 156 

trifle 151 

8           vinegar 29 

Reed  birds 92 

Rhubarb  Betty 143 

"         stewed 284 

Rice,  boiled  I,  II 115 

8     baked  with  cheese 228 

8     griddle  cakes 244 

8     Croquettes  I,  II 204 

"     jelly 326 

"     moulded 116 

"     muffins 238 

8     pudding 142 

8           "        frozen 186 

8     Spanish 116 

Rissoles  I,  II 204 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


347 


PAGE 

Roasting  meats 9 

Roe,  creamed  I,  II 195 

"      shad 49 

Rolls,  bread 233 

"       Rockford 233 

"       pocketbook 233 

"       potato 233 

"       potato  puff 234 

"       squash 234 

Rusks,  Crullers  and  Doughnuts ....   246 

Rusks 246 

"       clover 246 

"       potato 246 


Sago  pudding 164 

Salad,  a  la  Chantecler 137 

"       apple  and  nut 133 

"       asparagus 132 

"      asparagus  tip 133 

u      Bellevue 137 

"      cauliflower 133 

"       celery 133 

u      cherry 134 

a      chicken  I,  n 136 

u      chiffonade 134 

u      crab 140 

"       Christmas 137 

"       cucumber  boat 132 

"       cucumber  cup 132 

"       cucumber  jelly 133 

"       daisy 132 

■      egg  I,  II,  III 135 

u       fruit 141 

u      halibut 140 

"      lobster. 140 

u       macedoine  I,  II 139 

"       pineapple 140 

"       potato  I,  II 138 

"       salmon  mould 139 

"       shrimp 140 

"       spring 138 

"       tomato  I,  II,  III 136 

"       tomato  and  crab 136 

"       tomato  ielly 134 

"       Waldorf 141 

"       white  grape  and  nut 134 

Salad  Dressings 130 

boiled 139 

"         boiled  cream 131 

Chili 131 

"  "         cream 131 

"  u        French 130 


PAGE 

Salad  Dressings,  fruit 141 

"  "         mayonnaise 130 

"         sour  cream 131 

Salads 130 

*      plain 131 

Sally  Lunn 236 

"         "     quick 236 

Salmon,  boiled,  with  egg  sauce 53 

"         cutlets 54 

loaf 52 

"  "     sauce  for 52 

■        mould 139 

"        smoked 55 

Salted  almonds 196 

"      peanuts 197 

Saratoga  Chips 126 

Sandwiches 313 

Sandwich  fillings 314 

Sandwiches,  chicken 323 

"  Club  1 212 

u     II 213 

"  Manhattan  Club 213 

u  raw  beef 323 

u  u      "    toasted 323 

Sandwich  Butters 315 

u  u      Anchovy 315 

u  u       caviar 315 

"  "      cheese 315 

"  u      chutney 315 

"      lobster 315 

"      olive 314 

"  "      parsley 314 

*  "       tartar  I,  II 314 

"  "      water  cress 315 

Sardines,  grilled 277 

Sardine  Relish 197 

Sauces  for  Fish  and  Meat 94 

Sauce,  Bechamel 94 

"      bread 95 

u      brown 95 

u      caper 95 

"       Chili 305 

«       Creole 99 

"       cucumber 97 

"       currant  jelly 99 

"       egg 95 

«      HoUandaise  I,  II 98 

"       a  la  Hotel  Strand 100 

"      Maitre  d'Hotel    100 

a  "  u      hot 99 

a      Mexican 98 

"       mint 98 

"       mushroom  I,  II 96 

"      piquante 97 

"      Rockford 95 


348 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Sauce,  Spanish 222 

"       supreme 97 

"       tartare 97 

"             "       hot 97 

"       tomato 96 

"      white 94 

"          "      thick 95 

Sauce  for  Puddings 

"       caramel 169 

"       chocolate 168 

"      creamy 168 

"       custard 170 

"       fruit 168 

"      hard 168 

"       lemon 169 

"      maple 170 

"           "       sugar 170 

"       meringue 169 

"       orange 168 

"       pistache 170 

"       quick 169 

"      Sabyon 169 

"       vanilla 171 

"      whipped  cream 170 

Sausage 81 

balls 81 

"         stuffing 90 

"        with  fried  apples 81 

Sauteing 11 

Scalloped  fish 53 

Scallops  devilled 59 

"        fried 60 

Scissors,  kitchen 16 

Scorch  stain,  To  remove 333 

Scotch  broth 73 

Scrapple 81 

Seasoning,  To  vary 321 

Shad,  broiled 49 

"      planked 48 

"       roe 49 

"       smoked 55 

Shell  Fish 55 

Shortening 12 

Shrimps 195 

Sick  and  Convalescent,  For  the.  ...  319 

Simmering 9 

Smelts,  fried 49 

"       stuffed 50 

Snow  pudding 158 

Soft  shell  crabs 50 

Souffles 165 

Souffle,  baked,  of  eggs 220 

"       cheese 209 

"       codfish 52 

"       cutlets 191 


PAGE 

Souffle\  lemon 165 

"       macaroon 164 

"       Spanish 165 

Soup  boquet   17 

Soups,  to  bind 31 

Soup,  black  beau 39 

"       brown 33 

"       calf's  head 34 

"       chicken  I,  II 35 

"       clam  1 36 

"           "     II 37 

«           "       bisque 37 

"          "          "      with  tomato...  37 

"       chowder  I,  II 38 

"       consomme 33 

"               "           quick 33 

"       corn.. 42 

"       crab  bisque 38 

"       cream 40 

"       cream  of  lettuce 41 

"          "       "   mushroom 42 

"       "pea 41 

"       "potato 41 

"       "  spinach 41 

"       "  tomato 40 

"      dinner,  A 32 

"       kornlet 42 

"       luncheon,  A 32 

"       lobster  bisque 38 

"       oyster 36 

"       bisque 37 

"      purees  (see  purees). 

"       split  pea 39 

"       summer 39 

"       vegetable 33 

Soup  meat  to  use 32 

Soup  stock 31 

"       "     saving  for 32 

Soup,  to  clarify 31 

Soups  with  stock 33 

Spaghetti 228 

Spin  a  thread 15 

Spinach 117 

"        a  la  creme 117 

souffle 117 

Split  pea  soup 39 

Sponge,  A 13 

Squash,  summer 118 

Stains,  To  remove  blood 333 

"       chocolate 333 

"       cocoa 333 

"       coffee 333 

"       grass 332 

"       iron  rust 332 

"       machine  oil 333 

"       mildew 333 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


349 


PAGE 

Stains,   old 333 

■  paint 333 

"       perspiration 333 

"       scorch 333 

"       tea 333 

"       turpentine 333 

"       vaseline 333 

■  wine 333 

Steak— beef 67 

■  pan  broiled 67 

■  planked 67 

"  Manhattan 68 

"      hamburg 70 

"      Kellogg  and  Cary 68 

"      rolled 68 

"      Swiss 69 

"      tough,  A 68 

Stewing 9 

Stew,  Irish 72 

Stove,  The 7 

Strawberries,  preserved 292 

"             preserved  in  the  sun .  .  292 

"            preserved  whole 292 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream 156 

frappe 188 

"           sponge 160 

"           syllabub 160 

trifle 151 

Stuffing  for  fish  I,  II 47 

Succotash 108 

Suet  Pudding 165 

Suet,  To  render 10 

Sweetbreads 213 

baked 214 

"             creamed 214 

"             cutlets 214 

"            patties 214 

Sweet  Potatoes 

"          "        augratin 128 

baked 127 

"           "         balls 128,  311 

boiled 127 

glazed 127 

mashed 127 

pudding 128 

puff 128 

"           "         Savoy 129 

Southern  style 127 

Sweet  red  peppers,  canned 297 


Tapioca,  apple  I,  II 146 

"         cherry 146 


PAGE 

Tapioca,  cream 146 

jelly 326 

Tar  or  axle  grease,  To  remove 333 

Tarragon,  defined 17 

Tea 24 

■    iced 29 

"     stains,  To  remove 333 

Terrapin 196 

"         liver 206 

"         To  prepare 195 

Testing  fat  for  frying 10 

Timbale,  defined 17 

Time  table  for  gas  range 19 

"       «   coal     "     20 

Toast 322 

Toast,  creamed  I,  II 322 

"     celery 207 

"     cheese 209 

"     egg 324 

*     tomato 207 

Tomatoes 118 

"        baked 119 

"        baked,  stuffed 119 

"         broiled 120 

fried  I,  II,  III 120 

"         scalloped 118 

"        stewed 118 

"        stuffed  with  corn 119 

"    rice 119 

"        toast 207 

Tongue  Relish 197 

Turkey,  To  select 89 

Turkey,  boiled 84 

"         roast 90 

"         stuffing  for,  bread  crumb . .  90 

"              "         "     chestnut 91 

"              "         "     sausage 90 


Vaseline  stains,  To  remove 333 

Veal  and  Pork 75 

Veal,  To  select 75 

Veal,  boiled 77 

"     braised 75 

"     chops 76 

"       breaded 76 

"     cream  mince  of,  1 189 

"         "           "       "II 190 

"     croquettes 201 

8     cutlets 75 

"    knuckle  of 76 

"    loaf 77 

"     minced,  casserole  of 308 


350 


ALPHABETICAL    INDEX 


PAGE 

Veal,  olives 76 

a    pie 78 

-    roast  fillet  of.... 75 

u    stew  with  dumplings 77 

Vegetables 101 

*          soup S3 

Venison  Steak 92 

Vermicelli 228 

Victoria  Punch 28 

Vinegar,  blackberry 29 

*  raspberry 29 

u        to  spice 304 

w 

Waffle  Iron 15 

Waffles 241 

*  kornlet 242 

u      rice 242 


PAGE 

Washing  thin  dresses 332 

Water  Ice,  Apricot 186 

"       «     cherry 185 

a       "     grape 185 

"      "    lemon 185 

8       u     peach 185 

"       u     pineapple 185 

u       u    orange 184 

8       "     raspberry 185 

Watermelon  rind 300 

Welsh  Rabbit  I,  II 276 

What  to  Save  and  Why 316 

Whipped  Cream 153 

u            u      withfruit 153 

Wine  jelly 157,  325 

Wine  stain.  To  remove 333 

Wine  whey 320 

White  fish,  smoked 55 


