oiiB'^at: 


smiEHiSiPiiffimaas 


ffmtayfmttm|>yiWCT 


mmms 


BREAKFAST  REPERTORY. 


WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST; 


WITH  MORE  THAN 


ONE  HUNDRED  DIFFERENT  BREAKFASTS, 

AND 

FULL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  EACH. 

BY 

M.  TARBOX   COLBRATH. 


:  1  " 

INTERLEAVED. 


BOSTON: 
JAMES     H.    EARLE, 

178  Washington  Street. 
1882. 


Copyiiglit,  1882, 
By  James  H.  Earle. 


BOSTON 

W.  F.  BROWN  4  COMPANY,   PRINTERS 

218  FRANKLIN  ST 


\^■i 


TO 


HOUSEKEEPERS. 


M.  T.  C. 


PREFACE. 


The  ivriter  sends  this  Breakfast  Repertory  on 
its  mission  with  the  earnest  hope  that  it  may  aid 
housekeepers  in  answering  that  oft-repeated  ques- 
tion— 

What  shall  we  have  for  Breakfast? 

Every  little  while  the  good  housekeeper  gets 
into  inextricable  difficulties  with  this  vexed  ques- 
tion, and  what  to  get  for  this  meal  seems  to  em- 
barrass her  more  than  to  arrange  for  two  or  three 
dinners.  Knowing  that  this  general  complaint  of 
breakfast  difficulties  exists,  the  writer  hopes  to 
succeed  in  producing  a  directory  that  will  help 
these  perplexities  of  the  most  important  meal  of 
the  day,  and  suggest  over  one  hundred  practical 
breakfast  bills  of  fare,  adapted  to  various  persons 
and  circumstances. 


10  PREFACE. 


To  the  young  housekeeper  who  has  entered  upon 
her  new  duties  without  experience  ;  to  those  whose 
breakfasts  are  stereotyped  after  one  fashion,  and 
of  which  they  heartily  tire,  these  suggestions  may 
prove  of  service.  I  have  endeavored  to  make 
ea.eh  plan  so  phiin  that  a  novice  can  work  with 
certainty/  of  success. 

Besides  furnishnig  this  extensive  collection  of 
breakfast  fares,  the  wriLC^'  aims  to  convince  house- 
keepers of  the  evil  eftects  of  neglecting  this  meal ; 
also,  of  the  benefits  resulting  from  a  warm  and 
nuti'itious  breakfast. 

Each  breakfast  I  have  endeavored  to  suggest  on 
common-sense  principles  ;  have  made  nourishment 
the  chief  aim  of  eating ;  have  avoided  provoking 
the  appetite  beyond  nature  ;  have  ignored  nothing 
but  what  is  absolutely  unfriendly  to  health,  and 
have  advised  each  fare  in  a  practical  manner,  so 
that  the  stomach  may  not  be  offended. 

I  have  aimed  to  inspire  a  respect  for  made-over 
dishes,  which  are  sometimes  so  convenient  for  this 
meal,  but  which  are  served  by  many  housekeepers 
in  such  an  indifferent  manner  that  the  stomach 
takes  offence,  but  which  by  patience  and  skill  can 
be  made  appetizing. 


PREFACE.  11 


M}^  motto  will  be,  never  to  attempt  too  much, 
but  ever  bear  in  mind  that  it  is  not  the  multiplicity 
of  dishes,  but  the  excellent  and  life-giving*  qualities 
of  a  breakfast  that  vitally  concern  a  family ;  that 
a  few  wholesome  and  well-cooked  dishes  are  more 
satisfying,  and  preferable  to  many  indifterently 
cooked. 

Only  home-made  food  will  be  patronized,  as  it  is 
of  vital  importance  that  evpry  :;rticle  of  food  in- 
troduced at  the  table  should  be  pure ;  and  to  avoid 
hurtful  admixtures,  a  personal  inspection  of  its 
preparation  is  important,  else  we  know  not  what 
we  eat  in  this  age  of  adulteration. 

A  rigid  adherence  to  the  combination  of  each 
fare  is  not  urged,  but  to  deviate  as  circumstances 
dictate,  and  from  each  one  to  contrive  and  invent 
for  yourselves  as  convenience  requires,  yet  making- 
it  a  matter  of  study  to  serve  together  dishes  which 
are  especially  suited  to  each  other.  Be  assured 
you  will  derive  much  benefit  from  the  experience 
of  combining  and  contriving  for  j^ourselves. 

To  have  your  favorite  breakfasts  in  memoran- 
dum is  sometimes  a  great  convenience  in  cases  of 
absence,  sickness,  or  otherwise.  For  recording 
them  each  division  is  interleaved. 


12  PREFACE. 


No  directory  for  the  morning  meal  has  yet  been 
published,  so  far  as  the  writer  has  yet  been  a]>le 
to  investigate,  consequently  she  trusts  this  offer- 
ing will  be  gladly  received. 


SECTION  I. 


WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST, 


I.   REASONS   FOR  A   GOOD   BREAKFAST. 

I  OFFER  the  opinion  of  an  experienced  and  suc- 
cessful plijsician,  whose  protection  I  shared  at  an 
early  age,  and  by  whom  I  was  scrupulously  re- 
stricted from  early  morning  walks,  before  break- 
fast, —  a  custom  then  among  juveniles,  it  being  the 
prevailing  opinion  that  the  early  morning  air  was 
the  healthiest,  most  bracing,  and  purest.  He  did 
not  agree  with  the  boarding-school  theory  which 
prescribed  long  walks  before  breakfast  as  a  means 
of  promotino-  health,  —  but  ever  arirued  the  con- 
trary  as  the  ftict, — that  languor  and  exhaustion 
were  sure  to  follow  such  exercise,  especially  when 
taken  by  persons  of  delicate  organization  or  those 
liable  to  sudden  colds.  Assured  that  many  con- 
sumptions and  other  diseases  were  contracted  from 
the  exposure  of  an  empty  stomach  to  the  damp 
and  poisonous  influence  of  the  morning  air,  he 
ever  counselled  those  whose  vocation  called  them 


16  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

out  early  to  first  brace  up  the  stomach  with  a 
warm  and  nourishing  breakfast,  for  at  no  period 
of  the  day  was  the  air  more  tainted  than  at  sun- 
rise, in  which  it  was  a  dangerous  risk  to  take  much 
exercise  before  the  stomach  had  been  fortified  with 
a  warm  breakfast. 

Breakfast,  coming  after  the  longest  fast  in  the 
twenty-four  hours,  should  supply  the  great  waste 
that  goes  on  from  supper  till  dinner.  In  this 
country  this  meal  consists  frequently  of  tea,  coffee, 
and  a  small  proportion  of  bread  and  butter.  This 
is  not  enough  for  those  who  need  a  breakfast  for 
muscular  exertion  or  real  activity.  It  does  not 
give  the  strength  that  is  needed  to  last  until  din- 
ner, and  the  system  is  sure  to  suffer.  It  only 
allays  the  appetite,  and  is  insufficient  for  the  sup- 
ply of  bodily  waste  during  the  long  interval 
between  supper  and  dinner,  —  perhajDS  a  late  one. 
As  in  pecuniary  matters,  when  the  outlay  of  the 
body  exceeds  the  income,  we  may  be  sure  the  day 
of  retribution  will  come,  — that  we  shall  sooner  or 
later  suffer. 

Those  who  go  to  their  calling  early  should  not 
only  be  fed  with  a  nutritious  breakfast,  but  should 
be  served  in  sufficient  season,  that  they  may  not 
eat  hurriedly  or  insufficiently.  Should  we  allow 
our  cattle  or  horses  to  start  out  for  half  a  day 


REASONS    FOR    A    GOOD    BREAKFAST.  17 

without  being  properly  fed,  we  should  stand  a 
chance  of  hearing  a  remonstrance  from  philanthro- 
pists on  "  cruelty  to  animals."  Can  we  work  on  a 
worthless  breakfast  more  than  they  ?  We  should 
fitly  feed  our  hungriness,  for  energy  and  morality 
have  a  great  deal  to  do  with  what  we  are  fed. 

A  good  breakfast  is  of  vital  importance  to  the 
temperance  public.  When  our  food  sustains  us 
properly,  we  do  not  have  that  "  sinking  feeling" 
which  compels  many  to  seek  in  the  dram-shop  that 
power  which  they  ignorantly  think  can  be  obtained 
to  give  them  the  required  strength  to  perform  their 
work.  We  may  be  assured  that  real  strength  can 
be  secured  from  the  ris^ht  kind  of  food  and  cook- 
ery,  which  means,  in  plain  discourse,  that  a  plenty 
of  pure,  nourishing,  and  well-cooked  food  w^ill 
supply  us  with  all  the  stimulation  and  strength  w^e 
'require,  and  are  a  safeguard  against  lager  beer 
and  whiskey.  "  Poor  rations  are  demoralizing, 
and  drive  many  to  intemperance.  When  man 
does  not  get  the  stimulating  nourishment  w^hich 
his  nature  craves,  he  becomes  demoralized,  and 
resorts  to  the  dram-shop  to  supply  the  want  of 
good  and  stimulating  food." 


WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 


II.   WHAT   ANIMAL   FOOD   TO   EAT. 

The  Bible's  bill  of  animal  food  for  man's  diet  is 
the  best,  purest,  most  delicate,  and  most  popular 
that  has  ever  been  introduced,  all  civilized  people, 
with  few  exceptions,  living  up  to  it  (many  unwit- 
tingly, though  ?).  How  fortunate  that  God  decided 
the  animal  food  question.  He  well  knew  what 
animal  food  was  unsanitary,  and  quickly  foresaw, 
that  if  man  was  left  unrestrained  in  this  matter, 
great  confusion  and  fatal  consequences  w^ould  re- 
sult. Had  no  danger  existed,  there  would  have 
been  no  need  of  an  exact  and  imperative  prohibition 
and  allowance,  wherein  has  been  established  more 
complete  sanitary  eating  than  physiologists  could 
have  effected  for  ages,  had  they  been  the  author. 
Without  this  Bible  restriction  of  animal  food, 
it  would  have  been  no  easy  matter  for  them  to 
convince  man  that  he  could  not  eat  of  any 
kind  of  flesh  in  the  animal  kingdom  that  pleased 
him. 

That  God  intended  for  man  to  eat  animal  food 
is  evident  from  the  plain  directions  which  He 
has  given.  His  instructions  are,  that  the  animals 
to  be  eaten  by  him  must  be  pure,  and  allows  only 


WHAT    ANIMAL    FOOD    TO    EAT.  19 

those  for  his  diet  that  are  fastidious  eaters,  and 
require  for  their  subsistence  clean  and  vegetable 
food,  which  makes  their  flesh  pure,  wholesome, 
delicate,  refined,  dainty,  and  easily  digested. 

Can  any  one  fail  to  see  the  wisdom,  carefulness, 
and  hygiene  in  God's  allowance  of  animal  food  for 
His  people  found  in  Lev.  xi.  and  Deut.  xiv.  ? 
Surely,  He  cares  for  our  bodies  as  well  as  for 
our  souls.  For  convenience,  I  copy  hereinto  the 
cataloofues  of  wholesome  and  unwholesome  ani- 
mals  recorded  in  the  Bible. 


Wholesome  Anbials. 

"And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Moses  and  Aaron, 
saying.  These  are  the  beasts  which  ye  shall  eat 
anions:  all  the  beasts  that  are  on  the  earth. 
Whatsoever  parteth  the  hoof,  and  is  cloven-footed, 
and  cheweth  the  cud  among  the  beasts,  that  ye 
shall  eat." 

"  These  are  the  beasts  which  ye  shall  eat.  The 
ox,  the  sheep,  and  the  goat,  the  hart,  and  the  roe- 
buck, and  the  fallow  deer,  and  the  wild  goat,  and 
the  pygarg,  and  the  wild  ox,  and  the  chamois-,  and 
every  beast  that  parteth  the  hoof  and  cheweth  the 
cud  among  the  beasts,  that  shall  ye  eat." 

"  These  shall  ye  eat  of  all  that  are  in  the  waters. 


20  WHAT   TO   GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Whatsoever  hath  scales  and  fins  m  the  waters,  in 
the  seas,  in  the  rivers,  them  shall  ye  eat." 

There  can  be  no  doubt  but  this  category  of  fish 
for  food  by  Moses  is  the  most  wholesome.  They 
are  not  very  oily,  but  delicate  and  easily  digested. 
The  Great  Naturalist's  zoological  marks  so  plainly 
discriminate  the  wholesome  from  the  unwhole- 
some animals,  that  the  eye  of  the  unlearned  can 
readily  make  the  distinction. 

No  o:eneral  catalosfue  is  o-iven  in  the  Bible  for 
wholesome  birds,  yet  the  same  principle  is  ob- 
served as  for  quadrupeds,  —  they  must  subsist  on 
clean  food.  "  Of  all  clean  birds  ye  may  freely 
eat." 

Unwholesome  Animals. 

The  Bible  plainly  teaches  that  the  animals  which 
the  great  Law-giver  forbade  man  to  eat  are  not 
clean  eaters,  but  live  on  carrion  and  prey,  eating 
their  food  in  filth,  which  makes  their  flesh  un- 
wholesome and  not  fit  for  man's  food. 

"Nevertheless,  ye  shall  not  eat  of  them  that 
chew  the  cud,  or  of  them  that  divide  the  hoof,  as 
the  camel,  because  he  cheweth  the  cud  but  divideth 
not  the  hoof,  he  is  unclean  unto  you.  And  the 
hare  and  the  coney,  for  they  chew  the  cud,  but 
divide  not  the  hoof,  therefore  they  are  unclean 


WHAT    AXIMAL    FOOD    TO    EAT.  21 

unto  you.  And  the  swine,  though  he  divide  the 
hoof,  yet  he  cheAveth  not  the  cud,  he  is  unclean 
unto  you  ;  ye  shall  not  eat  their  flesh." 

"Whatsoever  hath  no  fins  and  scales,  in  the  seas 
and  in  the  rivers,  of  all  that  move  in  the  waters, 
and  of  any  living  thing  njliich  is  in  the  icaters, 
they  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you ;  3^e  shall 
not  eat  of  their  flesh." 

Unwholesome  Birds. 

Carnivorous  birds,  as  well  as  quadrupeds,  are 
forbidden.  "And  these  are  they  which  ye  shall 
have  in  abomination  among  the  fowls,  they  shall 
not  be  eaten.  The  eagle,  and  the  ossifrage,  and 
the  osprey,  and  the  vulture,  and  the  kite  after  his 
kind,  and  the  owl,  and  the  nighthawk,  and  the 
cuckoo,  and  the  great  and  the  little  owl,  and  the 
swan,  and  the  pelican,  and  the  gier-eagle,  and 
the  stork,  and  the  heron  after  her  kind,  and  the 
lapwing,  and  the  bat.  All  fowls  that  creep,  going 
upon  all  four,  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you." 

Creeping  Things. 

"These  also  shall  be  unclean  unto  you  among 

the  creeping  things  that  creep   upon  the   earth. 

The  weasel,  and  the  mouse,  and  the  tortoise  after 

his  kind,  and  the  ferret,  and  the  chameleon,  and 


22  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

the  lizard,  and  the  snail,  and  the  mole,  and  every 
creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  the  earth,  it 
shall  not  be  eaten." 

'^  This  is  the  law  of  the  beasts,  and  the  fowl, 
and  of  every  living  thing  that  moveth  in  the 
waters,  and  of  every  creature  that  creepeth  upon 
the  earth." 

The  laws  for  animal  food  hold  a  very  prominent 
part  in  the  revelation  given  to  Moses.  Wonder- 
fully few  accessions  have  been  made  by  succeeding 
generations  to  his  list  of  edible  animals,  and  with 
only  a  few  exceptions  his  animal  food  laws  have 
been  kept  by  all  subsequent  civilized  people. 
Only  starvation  would  tempt  a  civilized  man  to 
accept  a  slice  of  turkey-buzzard,  dog,  ca;t,  or 
horse  (although  the  latter  is  one  of  the  most 
fastidious  feeders).  These  animals,  with  many 
others  that  shock  the  palate,  were  not  any  more 
forbidden,  or  held  in  greater  aversion  by  Moses, 
than  swine's  flesh.  Yet  many  of  us,  in  this  en- 
lightened Christian  age,  in  this  triumphant  civil- 
ization of  the  nineteenth  century,  are  living  in  a 
senseless  disregard  of  one  of  Moses'  animal  food 
laws,  and  of  all  the  animals  forbidden  none  have 
been  so  persistently  eaten  by  Christians  as  swine's 
flesh  ! 

To  the  reader  it  must  be  plain  that  swine  were 


WHAT    ANIMAL    FOOD    TO    EAT.  23 

no  more  forbidden  by  the  law  than  other  un- 
wholesome animals,  but  that  the  greater  sensation, 
then  as  now,  was  produced  by  the  people's  per- 
sistence in  eating  them.  Their  physical  record  now 
stands  worse  than  ever,  and  if  they  were  human, 
the  popular  anti-fat  remedy  would  be  at  once 
advised.  Surely,  pork  is  now  fearfully  dangerous, 
and  our  latest  medical  advices  agree  with  Moses, 
the  law-giver,  in  disallowing  it. 

That  good  and  faithful  Physician,  who  is  wiser 
than  any  of  us,  well  understood  the  hygienic 
bearings  of  animal  food,  when  He  allowed  only 
the  flesh  of  those  animals  for  man's  diet  that  was 
the  least  trying  to  his  stomach  and  health.  From 
his  hygienic  meat  laws  we  learn  the  general  prin- 
ciples of  diet,  —  that  whatever  we  eat  and  drink 
should  be  pure  and  easy  of  digestion ;  likewise, 
that  the  safest  way  is  to  eat  and  drink  on  these 
Bible  principles. 

Although  pork  is  largely  used  throughout  all 
Christendom,  yet  I  cannot  judiciously  give  it  a 
place  in  this  breakfast  director}^  There  will  be 
no  danger  of  starvation  if  it  is  dispensed  with. 
The  world  is  full  of  good  things,  so  we  can  easily 
repudiate  it.  Just  as  good,  and  much  more 
wholesome  dishes  can  be  sfotten  without  it.     ^o 


to' 


baked  beans,  a  la  New  England,  no  pork  sausage. 


24  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

no  lard,  no  "  delicate  cured  hams,"  no  frogs'  legs, 
"  because  they  taste  like  chicken,"  and  no  other 
animal  food  will  be  introduced,  that  is  not  included 
in  Moses'  catalosfue  of  wholesome  animal  food. 

Fats. 

When  God  created  the  human  stomach.  He 
knew  just  what  machinery  to  place  in  it,  and 
there  is  no  better  evidence  of  the  need  of  fat  as 
food  than  that  furnished  by  nature,  which  has  pro- 
vided the  pancreatic  juice  for  the  special  purpose 
of  its  digestion.  For  hundreds  of  years  man 
could  not  divine  how  fat  was  digested.  After 
much  laborious  study,  he  has  lately  found  out  that 
God  planned  the  pancreas  at  the  first  for  its  diges- 
tion. The  coarse  sort  of  fats,  such  as  train  and 
goose  oil,  pork  and  lard,  should  be  eschewed, 
being  very  trying  to  most  stomachs.  It  is  allowed 
by  physicians  that  the  delicate  fats  found  in  beef, 
mutton,  fowl,  eggs,  butter,  cheese,  milk,  and  del- 
icate fish  afibrd  all  that  is  necessary  to  maintain 
the  animal  heat  and  working  power  of  the  body, 
ordinarily.  These,  too,  should  be  used  wisely  — 
only  what  our  wants  require,  it  being  a  matter  of 
individual  peculiarity,  some  being  able  to  digest 
more  fat  than  others. 


WINTER   AND    SUMMER   BREAKFASTS.  25 


III.    WINTER  AND   SUMMER  BREAKFASTS. 

The  two  great  divisions  of  food  are  nitrogenous, 
or  flesh-forming,  and  carbonaceous,  or  heat-giving. 
Sub-divisions  are  made  by  physiologists,  but  these 
two  cover  the  ground  sufficiently  for  this  purpose. 
Fix  in  your  mind  that  the  nitrogenous  articles  of 
food  produce  blood  and  flesh,  and  that  the  non- 
nitrogenous  or  carbonized,  produce  heat,  and  you 
will  have  a  key  that  will  unlock  many  of  the 
mysteries  of  diet.  Our  food  contains  more  or 
less,  of  these  elements.  Some  have  no  nitroo-en, 
some  no  carbon,  and  some  both  properties  in  va- 
rious proportions. 

Winter  Breakfasts. 

The  three  kinds  or  classes  of  food,  the  special 
oflace  of  which  is  to  support  animal  heat  and 
produce  fat,  are  the  oils,  the  sweets,  and  the 
starches,  and  these  have  little  or  no  influence  in 
promoting  strength,  muscle,  or  endurance.  Fat 
is  one  of  the  most  powerful  agents  in  the  produc- 
tion of  animal  heat. 

From  this  we  learn  that  the  object  of  eating  is 
to    strengthen    and   keep    us   warm.     Carbon,  or 


26  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

charcoal,  when  burned  in  our  grates,  gives  out 
heat.  When  taken  into  the  system,  in  the  form 
of  food,  the  burning  process  that  it  undergoes 
there  a'ives  to  us  a  warmth  which  is  called  vital 
heat.  It  keeps  up  the  fire  of  life.  It  is  this 
which  sustains  human  life,  and  it  must  be  pro- 
duced by  the  internal  combustion  of  the  carbona- 
ceous elements  of  the  food  we  eat.  In  vain 
would  the  softest  seal-skin  or  blanket  enwrap  our 
bodies  without  that  warmth  which  comes  from 
within. 

Consequently,  the  keener  the  cold  weather,  the 
more  carbonized  or  heat-producing  food  we  re- 
quire to  keep  up  the  fire  of  life.  On  a  sharp 
winter's  morning,  the  breakfast  we  eat  decides 
our  efficiency  for  execution  through  the  da}^ 
The  heating  material  taken  at  supper  has  been 
appropriated  during  the  night,  and  if  the  system 
is  not  supplied  by  a  carbonaceous,  as  well  as  a 
nitrogenous  breakfast,  our  whole  being  will  be  so 
badly  influenced  through  the  forenoon,  that  neither 
the  dinner  nor  the  supper  will  repair  it ;  but  when 
properly  fed,  with  food  containing  both  these  ele- 
ments, such  as  meats,  grains,  fats,  sweets,  and 
starch,  our  vital  action  vrill  be  sustained  in  full 
force,  so  that  we  can  work  vigorously  for  at  least 
five  hours  before  another  reinforcement  of  strenofth 


WINTER    AND    SUMMER    BREAKFASTS.  27 


and  warmth  from  food  is  needed.  We  all  know 
that,  so  long  as  a  person  feels  cold  all  through  his 
body,  no  work  is  done  to  advantage.  As  the  cold 
weather  approaches,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that 
we  gradually  change  the  cooling  breakfast  of  the 
hot  weather  to  a  more  nutritious  and  heat-pro- 
ducing one  —  more  meats,  fats,  sweets. 

Summer  Breakfasts. 
Were  we  to  pursue  the  plan  of  eating  the  heat- 
producing  breakfasts  in  summer  which  we  found 
beneficial  to  our  well-being  in  winter,  a  highly 
feverish  state  of  blood  would  be  produced,  and 
inflannnatory  diseases  created.  In  the  spring,  a 
gradual  change  in  the  nature  of  diet  is  necessary. 
Less  fats,  sweets,  and  starch,  as  in  line  flour,  are 
needed.  Continue  the  muscle-making  food,  such 
as  the  darker  portion  of  grains,  milk,  lean  meats, 
fowl,  and  fish.  Fish  contain  a  small  proportion 
of  heating  power,  and  in  summer  are  well  adapted 
to  the  wants  of  the  system.  Banish  from  your 
breakfast  buckwheat  cakes  and  molasses.  Use 
more  of  the  entire  product  of  the  grain  (except 
the  hull).  Use  the  early  salads  and  cooling  vege- 
tables which  succeed  each  other  in  their  season. 
The  delightful  berry  and  melon,  which  contain  no 
carbon  at  all,  should  be  freely  eaten  at  breakfast. 


2S  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

Those  who  pursue  this  plan  feel  no  real  loss  of 
health,  and  find  it  far  more  aoTeeable  than  druo-s 
and  doctors'  bills. 

Physiologies  are  now  plenty.  They  furnish  us 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  elements  of  the  human 
body.  Their  tables,  showing  the  nature  or  ele- 
ments of  both  the  animal  and  veg^etable  diet'  de- 
sio^ned  for  the  subsistence  of 'man  will  o^ive  one  a 
new  sense  of  tlie  relation  of  food  to  health. 


THE    GENUINE    BREAKFAST.  29 


IV.  THE   GENUINE   BREAKFAST. 

How  pleasant  those  homes  where  genuine  break- 
fasts are  appreciated;  where  cooking  morality 
is  of  importance,  and  the  food  is  aesthetically 
prepared.  Feeling  assured  of  a  satisfying  bill  of 
flire,  with  what  cheerfulness  the  fiimily  respond  to 
the  news  of  the  morning  repast.  Who  can  deny 
the  comforts,  luxury,  and  moral  benefit  of  this 
meal  in  one's  own  cheerful  breakfast-room,  where 
the  cutlets  are  sweet  to  the  senses,  the  baked  pota- 
toes dainty  and  mealy,  the  biscuits  of  an  ethereal 
nature;  where  the  coffee  is  fragrant  and  delicate, 
and  possessed  of  such  charms  that  spirituous  bev- 
erages have  no  temptation;  where  the  cream 
comes  safely  from  the  cow  to  the  pitcher;  and 
where  each  dish  brings  health  and  pleasure. 

Such  a  breakfast  is  absolutely  perfect,  because 
attractive,  wholesome,  nutritious,  simple,  and 
easily  digested,  leaving  the  stomach  comfortable, 
the  head  so  clear,  the  spirits  so  light,  and  the 
vital  forces  so  supplied  that  amiable  visages,  clear 
financiering,  speculation,  and  imagination  are  the 
speedy  compensation.     Beside,  the  stomach,  when 


30  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

in  this  beautiful  condition,  is  a  moral  force ;  and 
if  (as  is  sometimes  said)  many  of  the  evils  of 
the  world  are  traceable  to  bad  and  scanty  food, 
with  this  kind  of  breakfast  one  should  not  fail  to 
be  a  better  man  or  woman  throughout  the  day. 


THE  COUNTERFEIT  BREAKFAST.        31 


V.  THE  COUNTERFEIT  BREAKFAST. 

A  HOME  without  a  good  breakfast  —  how  shall 
we  describe  it?  Instead  of  the  sunny  courtesy 
with  which  a  man  comes  to  a  faultless  breakfast, 
he  who  has  no  assurance  of  a  satisfying  morning 
repast,  comes  like  a  man  v/ho  has  had  bad  news 
broken  to  him,  and  most  likely  with  a  "  breach  of 
peace  "  pictured  on  his  face.  Yet,  if  this  man  had 
the  same  assurance  of  an  attractive  breakfast  of 
wdiich  the  courteous  one  was  confident,  he  might 
have  excelled  him  in  politeness. 

Pity  the  sorrows  of  those  who  are  not  especially 
favored  with  a  genuine  breakfast,  that  stimulates 
the  bod}^  lightens  the  spirits,  clears  the  thought, 
gives  moral  force,  and  recompenses  by  generally 
resisting  the  foes  of  life,  for  he  who  is  badly  and 
scantily  fed  in  the  morning  has  not  the  moral 
safeguard  through  the  day  of  him  who  has  been 
w^ell  fed  at  breakftist. 

When  so  much  depends  on  this  meal,  is  it  not 
surprising  that  so  many  treat  it  indifferently  ?  A 
broiled  beefsteak,  a  digestible  breakfast-cake,  a 
dainty  baked  potato,  a  clear  cup  of  coffee,  are 
especial    wonders    in    many    families,    who   have 


32  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

never  dreamed  that  a  square  and  satisfying  break- 
fast has  much  to  do  with  the  prosperity  of  humanity. 
In  this  enlightened  republic,  instead  of  breaking 
fast  with  a  plenty  of  simple  and  nourishing  food, 
how  many  begin  the  labors  of  the  day  with  a  scanty, 
unattractive,  and  indigestible  breakfast,  which 
exhausts  instead  of  supplying  the  forces  ! 

Bacon   or    pork    served    swimming   in   grease, 

—  steak  fried  or  broiled  till  the  life  has  srone  out 
of  it,  and  consequently  so  tough  and  hard  that  one 
could  eat  and  enjoy  a  side  of  leather  about  as 
easily,  —  cold  potatoes  warmed  over  in  fat  that 
suggests  the  longevity  of  both  fat  and  the  vessel 
in  which  it  was  preserved,  —  a  hastened  corn-cake 
so  rank  with  soda  that  the  stoni^ach  is  made  un- 
happy through  the  day,  —  a  choice  mutton-chop 
transformed  beyond  recognition,  — muffins  burned 
to  a  cinder,  by  forcing  them  with  too  hot  an  oven, 

—  scrambled  eggs,  and  griddle-cakes  made  leath- 
ery for  want  of  promptness, — the  coffee,  alas! 
for  that  precious  cup,  that  benefactor  of  mankind, 
so  invaluable  to  many  for  its  gentle  stimulating 
powers,  and  especially  designed  for  sustenance 
instead  of  dangerous  wine,  —  this  indispensable 
comfort  so  muddy  and  bitter  that  you  cannot 
recognize  its  first  principles  ;  and  to  complete  its 
transformation,  the  milk  served  in  an  unsanitary 


THE  COUNTERFEIT  BREAKFAST.        33 

pitcher !     These  are  familiar  breakfasts  in  many 
families. 

Dangerous  breakftists  these.  They  do  not  fitly 
feed  hunger.  The  hungry  body  vainly  tries  to 
recuperate  in  its  efibrts  to  digest  this  wretchedly- 
cooked  food  not  "  convenient "  for  it,  so  that  what 
might  have  been  done  had  the  food  been  rightly 
cooked,  remains  undone.  Determination,  appli- 
cation, and  patience  will  enable  one  to  serve  a 
very  difierent  morning  meal,  with  a  little  earlier 
rising,  if  necessary,  for  a  breakfast  gotten  in  "no 
time  "  usually  drifts  its  own  way. 

There  is  much  truth  in  those  old  proverbs 
which  say  that  "necessity  knows  no  law,"  and 
that  "hunger  will  make  a  hungry  monkey  eat 
pepper."  This  land  is  flowing  with  ivhiskey 
and  lager.  He  who  has  not  been  fitly  fed  at 
breakfast  is  unsafe,  for  before  noon  the  inward 
craving  is  sure  to  make  a  demand,  which  must 
be  satisfied ;  and  the  saloons  become  an  easy 
resort  for  eking  out  a  poor  breakfast.  A  man 
disappointed  in  this  meal  can  easily  console  his 
hummer  with  somethino^  to  drink.  Breakfast  Avas 
insufiicient  to  give  him  strength ;  he  must  have 
something  to  make  up  the  want,  and  he  foolishly 
believes   he   can    quickly  get   it  from  a  glass  of 


34  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

whiskey  or  beer,  which  gives  him  spasmodic 
strength  for  a  brief  time,  but  when  the  reaction 
comes  leaves  him  worse  ofi  than  ever.  Is  it  not 
wise  ix)  teach  that  a  breakfast  unfailingly  good, 
with  all  the  elements  that  stimulate  and  nourish 
the  body,  has  its  moral  as  well  as  physical 
benefit  ? 


SECTION^  II. 


MEASURES,    SODA    AND    SOUR   MILK.  37 


II. 

MEASURES. 

The  measures  for  this  breakfast  book  are  half- 
pint  cups,  tea  and  table  spoons.  As  these  vary  in 
size,  the  safest  way  is  to  have  one  particular  cup 
and  spoon  for  cooking  measures,  which  have  been 
proved  by  a  sure  standard. 

For  a  cupful  the  ordinary  breakfast-cup  is  used, 
that  holds  half  a  pint. 

Two  cupfuls  mean  a  pint. 

A  cupful  means  half  a  pint. 

A  teaspoonful  means  just  rounding  full  and  not 
heaped. 

SODA  AND   SOUR  MILK. 

Great  numbers  wdio  profusely  use  soda,  for  light- 
ening bread,  are  ignorant  of  its  nature,  and  not 
aware  that  it  is  ruinous  to  the  human  stomach 
when  not  neutralized  by  an  acid.  When  the  soda 
and  acid  are  used  in  just  the  right  proportions  to 
neutralize  each  other,  they  are  not  considered  in- 
jurious to  health,  provided  they  are  pure. 

In  olden  times  sour  milk  was  exclusively  used 
for  neutralizing  soda.     In  later  times  cream-tartar 


38  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

has  been  much  used  instead,  as  a  greater  conven- 
ience. At  present  it  cannot  be  depended  upon,  on 
account  of  its  adulteration  ;  consequent!}^,  cautious 
people  are  falling  back  on  sour  milk  again,  feeling 
confident  of  its  purity.  Meantime,  somehow, 
many  have  lost  the  knack  of  compounding  soda 
and  sour  milk  as  accurately  as  their  predecessors, 
who  never  used  too  much,  neither  too  little  soda, 
but  always  the  right  quantity.  My  mother's  table 
was  always  furnished  with  some  kind  of  sour-milk 
bread,  which  was  invariably  the  same,  —  always 
just  right. 

AN   OLD-SCHOOL   HOUSEKEEPER 

will  tell  you  that  this  chemical  operation  should 
be  performed  with  caution,  demanding  knowledge 
and  care ;  also,  that  the  safest  way  is  to  use 
smoothly-loppered  or  nicely  soured  milk  instead 
of  partly  soured,  the  exact  proportions  being  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  sour  milk. 

Should  you  have  to  resort  to  milk  when  only 
partly  soured,  the  exact  amount  of  soda  now  de- 
pends on  the  acidity  of  the  milk,  and  you  cannot  I 
so  accurately  proportion  your  soda  as  for  nicely 
soured  or  loppered  milk  or  cream- tartar,  which  is, 
or  should  be,  always  the  same.  The  safest  way 
now,  is  to  add  a  part  of  the  measure  of  cream- 


SODA    AND    CREAM-TAKTAR.  39 

tartar  [o  your  milk  that  you  would  use  for  the 
same  quantity  of  sweet  milk.  The  addition  of 
this  to  the  partly  soured  milk  will  make  it  the 
right  acidity  for  the  usual  measure  of  soda.  You 
cannot  use  the  whole  measure  of  cream-tartar, 
which  is  two  teaspoonfuls  to  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
as  the  measure  of  soda  (one  teaspoonful)  is  only 
enough  to  sweeten  a  part  of  each  acid.  This 
mode  relieves  you  of  guessing,  which  many  adopt 
who  have  not  the  skill  of  guessing  just  right  the 
required  amount,  and  usually  err  by  getting  an 
.overdose  of  soda ;  hence  the  effect,  —  cakes  of  a 
golden  hue,  smelling  strong  of  soda. 

In  the  receipts  for  sour-milk  breakfast-cakes,  I 
would  have  it  distinctly  understood  that  I  have 
adopted  the  following  rule  as  a  general  one : 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  jpint  of  nicely 
soured  or  loppered  milk, 

SODA   AND   CREAM -TARTAR. 

Pure  cream-tartar  and  soda  have  no  equal  for 
making  convenient  breakfest-cakes.  For  very 
small  cakes,  such  as  griddles,  muffins,  waffles, 
and  various  breakfast-cakes,  it  is  quite  usual  to 
lighten  them  with  these  ingredients,  by  adding 
both  in  a  dry  state,  finely  pulverized,  to  the  flour, 
and    siftino-   them    with    it.     The    acid   and    soda 


40  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

readil}^  unite  and  produce  the  desired  gas  for 
liofhteninof  the  bread.  This  is  now  considered  the 
better  and  surer  way,  as  the  success  of  these  light- 
ening ingredients  depends  on  their  equal  distribu- 
tion throughout  the  flour.  When  thoroughly 
incorporated  with  the  flour,  you  avoid  finding 
those  lumps  of  soda  in  various  parts  of  the  bread, 
which  give  it  a  yellow  color  and  disagreeable 
flavor.  To  neutralize  each,  use  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  to  two  of  cream-tartar.  These  proportions 
have  been  accurately  allowed  by  chemists, 

HOME-MADE   YEAST. 

It  is  a  convenience  to  know  how  to  make  good 
yeast  when  you  cannot  buy  it.  If  you  have  not 
sweet  old  yeast  to  start  the  new  with,  you  can 
create  some  by  making  of  flour  and  water  a  thin 
batter,  and  letting  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  till 
fermented.  This  will  be  as  efiective  as  old  yeast 
for  starting  the  new  and  fresher,  giving  a  sweet 
and  pleasant  flavor  to  the  bread.  When  yeast  is 
entirely  new,  you  get  sweeter  bread  than  when 
started  with  old  and  half-decayed  yeast,  which 
produces  an  unpleasant  flavor  with  a  certainty. 
When  it  has  a  tart  smell  and  a  watery  appearance 
on  the  surface  it  is  too  stale  to  use. 

Home-made  dried  yeast-cakes  are  not  reliable, 


HOME-MADE    YEAST.  41 

and  do  not  make  bread  of  the  first  quality. 
Potato  yeast  is  reliable,  and  considered  better 
than  that  made  in  the  usual  way.  The  dough 
made  from  it  does  not  sour  as  readily,  but  will 
remain  perfectly  sweet  until  it  has  increased  twice 
the  original  quantity,  requiring  a  little  extra  time 
for  rising.  Bread  made  from  this  yeast  is  sweet, 
light,  and  does  not  dry  quickly.  Yeast  made 
from  the  following  receipt  will  keep  four  weeks  in 
hot  weather,  in  a  cold  place  :  — 

Two  quarts  of  water. 

One  cup  of  hops. 

Four  good  potatoes. 

One  cup  of  sugar. 

One  dessert-spoon  of  ginger. 

Half  a  cup  of  salt. 

Boil  the  hops  half  an  hour  in  the  two  quarts  of 
water.  Peal,  boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes  very 
fine.  Strain  the  hop- water  through  a  fine  strainer 
and  mix  with  the  potato,  sugar,  ginger,  and  salt. 
When  blood-warm  stir  in  a  cupful  of  sweet  and 
lively  yeast,  or  a  cake  of  compressed,  dissolved  in 
warm  water.  Keep  it  covered  in  a  warm  room 
five  or  six  hours,  when  it  is  usually  sufiiciently 
effervesced.  While  getting  light  give  it  a  good 
beating  several   times.     When   sufficiently  light. 


42  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

pour  it  into  sweet  glass  jars,  cork  tight,  and  keep 
it  in  a  cool  cellar  or  place. 

Less  sugar  and  salt  may  be  used  in  cold  weather, 
as  these  are  desis^ned  to  arrest  excessive  fermenta- 
tion.  The  ginger  is  intended  to  keep  the  yeast 
from  souring.  The  quantity  directed  does  not 
affect  the  flavor  of  the  bread.  Some  use  flour  to 
thicken  yeast,  but  it  will  keep  longer  without. 
Those  who  have  once  used  these  directions  are  un- 
willing to  relinquish  them. 

BREAKFAST  FARES. 

Breakfast  is  usually  quickly  and  hurriedly  pre- 
pared, requiring  undivided  attention.  For  a  cook 
to  worry  her  brain  trying  to  think  of  half  a 
dozen  or  more  different  dishes  for  this  meal,  seems 
a  serious  mistake.  Commonly,  three  or  four 
nicely-cooked  dishes  after  the  grain  course  will 
answer  better  in  every  way.  In  the  following 
bills  of  fare  for  breakfasts,  this  number  of  newly- 
cooked  dishes  is  suggested,  w^hich  will  greatly 
lessen  the  labor  of  the  housekeeper,  and  save  her 
from  that  disapproving  conscience  which  she  is 
sure  to  experience  when  a  greater  number  is  at- 
tempted, and  the  result  is  an  array  of  half-spoiled 
dishes. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  43 

Eiicli  bill  of  fare  offers  all  the  chemical  elements 
required  for  nutrition,  consisting  usually  of  veo-e- 
table  and  animal  food,  leaving  the  quantity  to  be 
regulated  by  the  appetite  and  individual  necessity. 
Each  dish  is  plainly  prepared,  so  that  the  distinc- 
tive characteristics  of  the  food  may  be  retained. 
In  the  temperate  zone  instinct  demands  a  varied 
diet  adapted  to  the  rapid  changes  of  the  climate. 
The  different  bills  of  fare  sus^o^ested,  2:ive  the  in- 
dividual  an  opportunity  for  the  selection  of  such  a 
breakfast  as  the  season  and  the  necessity  demand. 

The  grain  course  is  suggested  as  a  first  course, 
a  plan  now  being  adopted  to  prevent  the  immoder- 
ate use  of  animal  food,  to  which  many  are  given, 
and  which  is  condemned  by  Hygiene. 

Fruit  is  suggested  as  last,  yet  this  is  not  arbi- 
trary. It  does  not  matter  what  place  it  occupies, 
if  only  this  wise  sanitary  custom  of  eating  fruit  in 
the  morning  is  observed. 


SECTION   III. 
BEEFSTEAK  BREAKFASTS. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  47 


III. 

BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS. 

Beefsteak  deserves  the  highest  rank  among 
breakfast  fares.  This  Bible  and  chemically  sanc- 
tioned food,  purposely  designed  for  man,  is  very 
satisfying  to  the  stomach,  and  possesses  great 
strengthening  powers.  To  replenish  the  animal 
sph'its  there  is  no  food  like  beef,  and  when  kept 
till  properly  tender,  and  properly  cooked,  nothing- 
will  give  the  stomach  less  trouble.  It  is  iron 
which  gives  the  red  color  to  flesh.  Beef  is  not 
wantinof  in  this  life-o^ivino;  element,  which  oives  a 
decided  verdict  in  its  favor. 


48  AVHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  1. 

Cracked   Wheat. 
Beefsteak.  Macaroni.  Eggs  on  Toast. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

CRACKED   WHEAT. 

Wheat  as  food  is  the  most  important  of  the 
grains,  because  it  is  more  available  for  all  the 
wants  of  the  system  than  any  of  the  other  grains. 
It  is  said  to  be  as  nearly  a  perfect  natural  food  as 
milk,  containing  everything  in  itself  to  support 
life,  being  composed  of  the  same  elements  as  the 
human  body,  and  in  about  the  same  proportions. 

Sifting  and  Bolting  lessen  these  properties 
to  a  serious  extent.  The  l)ran,  Avhich  is  thrown 
away,  contains  about  forty  per  cent  of  the  nutri- 
ment of  the  grain.  The  miller  robs  it  of  its 
gluten  and  albumen,  which  make  muscular 
strength ;  of  its  mineral  and  phosphatic  prop- 
erties, which  nourish  bone,  muscle,  and  brain. 

The  only  way  now  for  us  to  secure  this  grain  in 
perfection,  and  restore  brain,  bone,  and  muscle, 
is  to  cook  it  unground.  It  is  delicious  as  well  as 
w^holesome  when  eaten  with  a  dressing  of  cream 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  49 

or  milk,  fi'uit,  sugar,  or  sirup,  and  is  much  used 
by  those  who  understand  the  philosophy  of  grains. 

Cracked  wheat  is  only  in  perfection  when 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  for  it  is  an  essential 
rule  that  grains  of  all  kinds  should  never  be 
stirred  while  cooking.  This  rule  cannot  be  ob- 
served when  cooked  in  a  single  boiler.  When 
done,  each  grain  should  be  charmingly  light  and 
porous,  distinct,  yet  jelly-like.  When  watery,  it 
is  not  palatable  or  attractive,  and  spoils  the  nice 
flavor  and  richness  of  the  milk.  The  water  should 
be  boiling  in  the  outside  boiler,  and  boiling  Avater 
put  into  the  inside  boiler.  To  nearly  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  half- 
pint  cupful  of  cracked  wheat.  Boil  three  hours 
or  more,  or  till  done.  Grains  are  very  unwhole- 
some and  disagreeable  when  underdone. 

For  breakfast  it  should  be  cooked  the  day  pre- 
vious, and  reheated  in  the  morning,  as  there  is 
not  time  then  to  give  it  the  long  cooking  it  needs. 
When  reheated  for  breakfast,  do  not  remove  it 
from  the  inner  boiler,  but  fill  the  outer  boiler  w^ith 
l)oiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  till  heated  through. 
Do  not  add  w^ater  to  the  inner  boiler.  Many  pre- 
fer it  cold.  It  takes  the  mould,  and  should  be 
poured  into  it  while  hot,  or  before  the  starch  is 
set,  which  makes  a  handsome  dish  when  served 
cold. 


50  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Never  fry  a  beefsteak.  People  who  know  what 
really  good  cooking  is,  do  not  fry  l)eefsteak. 
When  fried  in  fat,  it  is  both  vulgar  and  indigesti- 
ble. Broiling,  which  suddenly  hardens  the  sur- 
face, and  keeps  the  juice  within  the  steak,  is  the 
most  eligTl)le  style  for  cooking  beefsteak,  and 
those  who  wish  to  invigorate  themselves  adopt  it. 

The  appearance  of  beefsteak  is  injured  by 
pounding  it.  If  you  suspect  it  is  tough,  the  bet- 
ter method  is  to  cut  several  parallel  strokes  across 
it  on  each  side,  with  a  sharp  knife,  not  cutting 
through,  but  lightly  cutting  the  surface.  The 
quick  heat  will  unite  the  incisions  again,  and  when 
cooked  you  will  hardly  perceive  them.  If  there 
is  much  fat,  trim  it  off,  else  it  will  drop  on  the 
coals  and  smoke. 

A  lioht  wire  o^ridiron,  tliat  can  be  turned 
quickly,  is  best.  Have  a  clear  and  hot  fire,  that 
will  last  through  your  l^roiling.  For  a  minute, 
hold  each  side  to  the  fire,  to  car])onize  the  surface 
before  the  broiling  begins.  This  method  saves 
the  juice  of  the  meat.  When  car1)onized,  expose 
it  to  a  slower  heat  and  broil  it.  Turn  frequently, 
but  do  not  stick  a  fork  into  it  while  broiling,  or 
the  juice  will  escape.     Broil  your  steak  lightly  or 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  51 

rare,  but  not  mw.  Have  your  outside  a  good 
meat  brown,  your  inside  a  nice  red.  Never  salt 
steak  while  broiling,  as  it  extracts  the  juice. 
When  done,  sprinkle  it  h'ghtly  with  salt,  lay  it  on 
a  hot  dish,  Avith  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter,  but 
do  not  have  it  swimming  in  l)utter,  as  the  juice  is 
supposed  to  be  inside  the  steak.  Pepper  should 
be  an  individual  application,  if  you  do  not  know 
the  desire  of  your  guests.  Set  the  platter  in  the 
oven  a  moment,  to  melt  the  butter.  To  be  nice, 
it  must  be  served  hot. 

EGGS  ON   TOAST. 

Have  in  a  spider  boiling  hot  water,  yet  not  lit- 
erally boiling,  and  enough  to  cover  an  egg,  when 
broken  into  it.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Place 
as  many  muffin  rings  in  the  water  as  is  needed. 
Break  each  egg  into  a  cup,  then  turn  it  gently 
into  a  rinof.  Let  them  cook  without  boilins^. 
When  delicately  cooked,  or  till  the  eggs  are  cov- 
ered with  a  white  film,  remove  the  rings,  and  lay 
each  egg  on  a  slice  of  toast.  This  method  gives 
a  much  handsomer  dish  than  when  dropped  the 
usual  way.  Toast  your  bread  in  season  for  the 
eggs  when  done.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Dip  each  slice  quicklj^,  only  moistening,  not  soak- 
ing it,  and  place  in  the  platter  for  the  eggs. 


52  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

MACARONI 

should  be  washed  and  broken  into  lengths  of  live 
or  six  inches.  Put  into  a  plenty  of  hot  water 
previously  salted.  Boil  half  an  hour,  or  until 
tender.  Meanwhile,  for  the  average  quantity, 
scald  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  and,  while  hot,  add 
a  table-spoon  of  butter,  which  pour  over  the  mac- 
aroni, when  ready  to  be  served.  In  the  winter, 
when  potatoes  are  poor  and  unwholesome,  this 
dish  makes  a  very  welcome  substitute. 

COFFEE. 

The  coffee,  jmr  excellence,  is  an  equal  mixture 
of  Java  and  Mocha,  one  giving  strength,  the  other 
flavor  and  aroma. 

Coifee  connoisseurs  prefer  roasting  their  own 
coffee,  or  having  a  personal  supervision  of  it. 
First,  let  your  coffee  get  well  dried  and  heated, 
then  put  it  where  it  will  roast.  It  should  have 
undivided  attention,  and  be  stirred  constanll}^  till 
done.  If  left  half  a  minute,  the  kernels  next  the 
kettle  may  burn  black,  and  these  will  spoil  all  the 
rest.  To  have  good  coffee,  it  must  be  evenly 
roasted  a  dark,  rich  brown.  Black,  burnt  coffee 
has  a  bitter  flavor,  instead  of  being  finely  flavored, 
like  nicely-roasted  coffee. 


BEEFSTEAK     BREAKFASTS.  53 

After  your  coffee  is  roasted,  the  next  important 
feature  is  the  grinding,  which  should  be  mod- 
erately fine.  If  ground  too  fine  and  powdery,  it 
is  hard  to  make  it  clear ;  if  too  coarse,  you  lose 
much  of  the  streno^th  and  aroma.  It  should  be 
freshly  ground  each  time  it  is  used.  Coffee 
should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  a  tin  can,  or 
glass  jar,  tightly  closed. 

The  next  thing  is  the  cleanliness  of  your  coffee- 
pot, of  which  many  never  suspect  the  importance, 
and  do  not  empty  their  coffee-pot  of  dregs  till 
obliged  to.  Coffee  is  just  as  imperfect  as  other 
food  that  has  been  cooked  in  an  unwashed  vessel. 
The  coffee-pot  should  not  be  allowed  to  become 
coated  with  coffee  dregs,  but  carefully  washed 
every  time  it  is  used,  in  hot  suds,  rinsed,  wiped 
dry,  and  set  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  get  per- 
fectly dry. 

It  seems  a  waste  of  time  to  write  out  a  recipe 
for  making  coffee,  as  most  housekeepers  have 
their  favorite  method.  Messrs.  Blot  and  Delmon- 
ico  were  very  emphatic  about  the  impropriety  of 
boiling  coffee,  preferring  it  made  in  a  French 
filter.  Without  any  disrespect  to  either,  the 
Avriter  differs  from  their  sanctioned  opinions,  and 
gives  her  experience  of  the  coffee  question. 

The  ordinary  coffee-pot  was  always  used  in  my 


54  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

family.  To  clear  the  coffee,  an  egg,  with  the 
shell  crushed,  was  stirred  into  a  cup  of  moderately 
ground  coffee  before  putting  it  into  the  coffee-pot, 
when  a  quart  of  boiling  water  was  poured  to  both, 
the  coffee-pot  tightly  closed,  and  boiled  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  A  cupful  was  then  poured  out,  to 
clear  the  spout  from  dregs,  pouring  the  same  back 
again.  While  clearing,  which  should  take  six  or 
seven  minutes,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
where  it  can  be  kept  hot.  It  is  a  mistake  not 
to  let  coffee  wait  a  few  minutes  after  clearing  the 
spout.  With  good  cream,  this  was  as  delicious 
coffee  as  need  be ;  and  I  would  say  that  you  do 
not  have  coffee  in  perfection  unless  you  have  good 
cream.  No  matter  how  nice  your  coffee,  how 
well  roasted,  or  how  boiled,  if  you  do  not  have 
cream  for  an  accompaniment,  you  do  not  have 
delicious  and  perfect  coffee.  Never  decant  coffee, 
for  much  flavor  is  lost  by  pouring  it  from  one 
vessel  to  the  other. 

Observe  the  following  rules,  and,  without  new 
inventions,  they  will  give  you  good  coffee.  Buy 
good  coffee.  Roast  it  an  even  brown.  Have  a 
clean  coffee-pot.  Serve  it  in  the  vessel  in  which 
it  was  boiled.  Boil  quickly.  Have  cream,  if  you 
can ;  else  hot,  but  not  boiled  milk. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  55 


BREAKFAST  No,  2. 


Sirloin   Beefsteak. 

Gravy  au  naturel. 

Buttered  Toast.  Baked  Apple  Sauce. 


Cocoa.  Ripe  Fruit. 

This  simple  and  easily  digested  breakfast  is  a 
very  valuable  one  for  those  who  need  much  nour- 
ishment in  a  small  compass.  The  accompaniments 
can  be  changed  to  suit  one's  taste  and  condition. 

SIRLOIN   BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  three  slices  of  beefsteak,  one  a  sirloin, 
and  two  from  the  round,  as  the  round  yields  more 
juice  than  any  other  cut.  Broil  them  rapidly  and 
lightly.  When  cooked,  place  the  choice  sirloin  in 
the  middle  of  a  platter,  and  add  a  little  butter. 
With  a  meat-squeezer,  press  the  juice  entirely 
from  the  rounds  over  the  sirloin.  Serve  at  once. 
The  essence  of  rare  beef  thus  expressed  is  con- 
sidered a  better  tonic  by  some  physicians  than 
beef  tea  prepared  the  usual  way. 


56  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BUTTERED  TOAST. 

Yevy  few  know  just  how  to  toast  bread  nicely. 
Though  simple  and  easy  it  often  gets  spoiled,  and 
is  seldom  seen  without  symptoms  of  burning. 
The  bread  must  not  be  too  fresh.  To  make  but- 
tered toast  in  perfection,  you  want  a  very  light  stale 
loaf  of  raised  bread.  You  need  a  clear  lire,  and  it 
is  best  when  only  one  slice  is  toasted  at  a  time, 
holding  it  at  just  the  distance  from  the  fire  to 
brown  nicely  and  without  scorching.  The  whole 
surface  of  each  side  should  be  a  golden  brown. 
The  perfect  way  is  to  butter  each  slice  when  taken 
from  the  fire,  and  serve  immediately,  being  in 
perfection  only  when  freshly  done.  When  not 
convenient  to  serve  immediately,  pile  the  toast  as 
you  finish  it  on  a  plate,  cover  it  with  a  deep  tin, 
and  keep  it  in  an  open  oven  till  served. 


BAKED   APPLE   SAUCE. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  nice  juicy  apples,  peeled, 
cored,  and  quartered.  Strew  sugar  over  them. 
Fit  a  plate  closely  over  the  dish,  Avhich  set  in  a 
larger  pan,  with  hot  water  in  the  bottom,  about  an 
inch  in  depth.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  and  bake  till 
clear  and  tender.     If  they  are  not  very  juicy,  put 


BEEFSTEAK    BKEAKFASTS.  57 

two  ta])les})oons  of  water  to  them.     Prepare  the 
day  previous  for  breakfast,  —  very  nice. 

COCOA. 

In  this  age  of  adulteration,  w^ise  and  cautious 
people,  who  like  to  know  what  they  drink,  use 
cracked  cocoa,  or  shells  and  cocoa  mixed.  To  half 
or  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  cracked  cocoa,  add 
one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  tw^o  and  a 
half  or  three  hours.  When  sufficiently  boiled, 
add  sufficient  hot  water  to  make  up  for  the  evapo- 
ration and  to  make  it  the  right  strength.  Add 
sufficient  milk,  and  let  the  whole  come  to  a  boiling 
point,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  boiled  milk  gives 
an  unpleasant  flavor ;  or,  you  can  heat  the  milk 
separately,  adding  a  part  to  the  cocoa  pot  and  the 
rest  to  the  cream  pitcher,  from  which  supply  to 
your  taste.  The  perfection  of  cocoa  is  its  liberal 
supply  of  milk. 


58  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  3. 

Whole  Wheat  and  Milk. 
Rump  Beefsteak.  Baked  Potatoes. 


fJaised  Biscuits  {light  as  a  foam). 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

WHOLE  ^VHEAT. 

This  tempting  dish  can  be  eaten  with  a  dressing 
of  cream,  milk,  sugar,  or  sirup.  Fruit  sirups  are 
a  delicious  dressing  for  it,  —  also,  it  is  nice  eaten 
as  a  veo-etable  with  meats.  Select  the  white 
wheat,  if  it  can  be  obtained,  as  it  cooks  more 
readily  and  looks  more  inviting.  Wash  it  well, 
turn  off  all  that  rises  to  the  surface  of  the  water, 
then  drain  it  dry.  If  there  is  any  foreign  matter, 
it  should  be  picked  out.  Put  it  into  an  inner 
boiler,  with  five  or  six  times  its  measure  of  boiling 
water.  Add  boiling  water  to  the  outer  boiler  and 
cook  six  or  eight  hours,  or  until  all  have  opened 
out  similar  to  the  kernels  of  popped  corn.  For 
breakfast  it  should  be  cooked  the  day  previous, 
and  reheated  like  cracked  wdieat. 


BKEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  59 


RUMP   BEEFSTEAK. 
The  ])est  cuts  are  from  the  middle  of  the  rump, 
^vhich  has  much  flavor,  and  is  preferred  by  many. 

"Broil  lightly  your  beefsteak — to  fry  it, 
Argues  contempt  of  Christian  diet." 

BAKED   POTATOES. 

Americans  are  very  fond  of  baked  potatoes  as 
an  accompaniment  to  steak.  When  in  perfection, 
mealy,  and  of  the  first  quality  in  flavor,  they  are 
unrivalled.  Unless  they  can  be  presented  in  this 
dainty  condition,  it  is  far  better  that  they  should 
be  disguised  and  made  palatable  by  some  artifice 
which  the  French  resort  to ;  for  unless  these 
tubers  are  in  mealy  perfection,  they  are  not  easily 
disrested.  However  well  baked,  their  excellence 
depends  on  their  being  served  immediatel3%  as 
they  quickly  lose  their  lightness,  and  "  the  glory 
of  a  baked  potato  is  its  mealiness." 

RAISED   BISCUIT, 
light   as  a  foam,   ''The    lighter   the  better,   altho' 
many    do   not   think    so."      This    is  Prof.  Blot's 
philosophy.       ''  Lightness    is    a    most   important 
quality  in  warm  biscuit,  as  it  enables  them  to  be 


60  V/HAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

more  easily  acted  upon  by  the  digestive  fluids," 
which  v/ill  force  a  rapid  passage  through  light 
biscuit,  but  can  penetrate  a  rubber  ball  about  as 
easily  as  heavy  baked  ones.  What  is  so  rare  as 
light,  white,  and  thin-crusted  home-made  raised 
biscuit  for  breakfjist?  Yet  this  luxury  can  be 
easily  attained  if  the  dough  is  well  raised. 

In  warm  weather,  raised  dough  can  be  kept  for 
two  or  three  days  for  morning  biscuit,  if  covered 
with  a  damp  cloth  and  set  in  a  cold  place,  where 
it  will  not  sour.  In  cold  weather,  if  set  in  a  cool 
place,  where  there  is  no  danger  of  freezing,  it  will 
keep  the  same  length  of  time.  Certainly  this  is 
a  convenience,  and  many  think  it  improves  the 
dough,  if  it  can  be  kept  sweet. 

If  you  are  a  novice,  you  must  learn  at  the  out- 
set that  you  cannot  have  good  biscuit  or  bread 
without  the  best  quality  of  flour,  fresh  and  lively 
yeast.  It  is  advisable  to  use  compressed  yeast, 
as  it  is  best  when  it  can  be  had  fresh.  Too 
much  salt  destroys  the  nice  flavor  of  bread,  too 
little  makes  it  insipid.  Liquid  yeast  is  sometimes 
quite  salt ;  in  this  case  you  must  be  cautious  about 
salting  your  bread.  Compressed  yeast  requires 
salt  in  the  bread. 

A  little  too  much  heat  injures  biscuit,  and  too 
little  ruins  them.     If  the  oven   is  .too  hot,  they 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFAPTS.  ^'1 


Avill  bake  outside  before  the  heat  penetrates  the 
centre,  consequently  you  have  them  heavy  and 
underdone  in  the  middle.  Unless  the  oven  is  hot 
enough  the  biscuit  will  spread.  One  that  does  not 
bake  at  the  bottom  will  be  likely  to  spoil  your  bis- 
cuit.    A  great  deal  depends  on  the  oven. 

For  morning  biscuit,  mix  dough  at  nine  o'clock 
in  the  evening.  Scald  your  milk,  and  there  will 
not  be  the  danger  of  its  souring.  If  not  conve- 
nient to  use  milk,  use  all  or  a  part  water,  and  rub 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  the  flour. 

RULE. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 
One  pint  of  warm  milk. 
Half  a  cake  of  compressed, 
Or  half  a  cup  of  liquid,  yeast. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Make  a  hollow  in  the  flour  and  add  the  salt. 
Dissolve  yeast  if  compressed  in  a  little  of  the  wet- 
ting, and  with  the  milk  pour  into  the  hollow. 
Mix  till  it  becomes  a  dough.  Dredge  your  mould- 
ing board  evenly  with  flour.  Lay  your  dough 
upon  it  and  knead  twenty-five  minutes.  In  knead- 
ing, use  just  flour  enough  to  keep  the  dough  from 
stickins:  to  the  hands.     The  great  mistake  in  mak- 


62  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

ing  dough  is  getting  it  too  stiff  with  flour.  When 
the  fingers  can  be  pressed  into  it  without  sticking, 
your  bread  is  kneaded  enough.  Learn  to  get  the 
right  consistency,  without  too  much  flour,  which 
should  be  soft  as  possible  Avithout  sticking. 
Twenty-five  minutes  are  long  enough  for  the  first 
kneading  and  ten  for  the  second.  When  kneaded, 
return  to  the  bowl,  which  should  be  earthen,  as  it 
is  a  better  protection  from  cold  than  tin.  Cover 
warm,  and  place  where  no  draft  of  cold  air  can 
strike  across  it,  for  if  allowed  to  be  chano-ins: 
temperature  while  fermenting,  it  will  hinder  its 
rising,  and  your  dough  will  be  heavy.  To  rise 
Avell,  it  needs  an  even  temperature  of  seventy 
degrees. 

In  the  morning,  as  soon  as  you  go  into  your 
kitchen,  with  a  spoon  push  the  dough  down  from 
the  top  and  sides  of  the  pan,  and  let  it  rise  again. 
When  light,  knead  it  ten  minutes,  lightly,  avoid- 
ing much  flour.  When  kneaded,  cut  little  bits  for 
your  biscuit,  mould  with  your  hands  into  small 
rounds,  without  using  any  flour.  Set  them  a  little 
distance  apart,  in  a  lightly-l)uttered  pan,  cover 
with  a  cloth,  and  set  where  they  can  have  an  even 
temperature  of  eighty  or  eighty-five  degrees. 
When  risen  to  twice  their  size,  they  are  ready  for 
the  oven.    Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.    When 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  63 

done,  let  them  remain  a  few  minutes,  with  the 
oven  door  open,  to  dry  off  the  moisture  and  ripen, 
and  prevent  them  from  being  sticky. 

You  now  have  the  secret  of  light  biscuit. 
Nowadays  many  cooks  rush  their  biscuit  through 
in  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  for  breakfast, 
which  accounts  for  their  being  half- risen,  half- 
baked,  sticky  and  doughy  in  the  mouth.  May 
you  see  the  folly  of  this,  and  rise  in  season  to  give 
your  biscuit  time  to  rise,  bake,  and  dry  off,  else 
you  will  never  have  them  light. 


BREAKFAST  No.  4. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Beefsteak.  Fried  Hasty  Pudding. 


Tomato  Sauce. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

Those  who  bow  to  Hygiene  need  have  no  fears 
of  this  breakfast,  and,  when  well  gotten,  an  epicure 
will  not  object  to  a  second  trial. 

FRIED  HASTY   PUDDING. 

This  hygienic  mush  is  rarely  found  in  perfection, 
but  half  raw  and  lumpy.     When  corn-meal  hasty 


64  WHAT   TO    GET   FOE    BREAKFAST. 

pudding  is  made  on  purpose  to  fry  for  breakfast, 
it  makes  the  slices  stronger  to  mix  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  with  one  quart  of  meal.  Be  careful  to 
use  no  more  flour.  For  frying,  it  should  be  made 
quite  stiff*,  and  when  for  breakfast,  it  should  be 
made  the  day  before. 

A  Scotch  kettle  is  the  best  for  making  hasty 
pudding.  First,  stir  a  large  portion  of  the  meal 
to  be  used  in  cold  water  till  there  are  no  lumps. 
Stir  this  gradually  into  boiling  water,  which  has 
been  salted.  If  more  is  needed,  stir  in  enough  to 
make  it  the  right  consistency.  Do  not  get  it  too 
hard  and  stiff*.  After  the  meal  is  all  in,  it  needs 
an  hour's  cooking  or  simmering,  or  it  will  taste 
raw.  When  done,  mould  it  in  a  nice  brick-loaf 
pan.  From  this  shape  you  can  cut  handsome 
slices,  which  should  be  about  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  or  strong  enough  not  to  break. 
Fry  on  a  griddle,  well  greased  with  beef  drippings. 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  well  ripened  tomatoes, 
to  remove  the  skins.  When  skinned,  cut  into  a 
stew-pan,  and  stew  briskly  half  an  hour.  Do  not 
cook  them  too  long,  as  it  injures  their  peculiar 
taste.  Salt  them,  adding  a  little  pepper  and  but- 
ter, if  aofreeable. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  65 

"We  need  not  eat  the  tomato  with  fear  and 
trembling,  as  many  are  wont  to  do.  There  is  no 
evil  about  it,  and  Avhen  we  don't  take  care  of  our- 
selves it  will  take  care  of  us.  It  is  a  deliHitful 
substitute  for  calomel,  and  we  may  wonder  how 
the  ancestral  liver  could  have  been  kept  comforta- 
ble w^ithout  this  anti-bilious  food.  That  it  is  in- 
valuable, and  one  of  the  most  healthful  esculents 
in  the  vegetable  kingdom,  is  the  popular  opinion. 
Its  healthful  qualities  do  not  depend  on  its  mode 
of  preparation,  and  it  may  be  eaten  twice  or  thrice 
per  day  with  like  advantage,  cooked  or  uncooked, 
Avith  or  without  a  dressinof,  and  to  the  utmost  that 
the  appetite  requires.  Its  healthful  qualities  con- 
sist in  its  slight  acidity,  wdiich  makes  it  as  impor- 
tant as  fruit,  and  when  the  diet  is  largely  meat 
and  bread,  it  is  inestimable." 

RIPE   FRUIT. 

In  the  present  age,  you  do  not  have  an  a  la  mode 
breakfast  unless  fruit  is  served.  Fruit  is  a  gra- 
cious sanitary  provision  by  our  Heavenly  Father, 
to  cleanse  the  blood  of  too  much  carl)on ;  there- 
fore it  is  a  very  wdse  fashion.  For  breakfast,  it 
may  be  eaten  when  most  agreeable,  first  or  last. 
All  kinds  of  fruit  are  admissible  to  the  breakfast 
table  that  are  thoroughly  ripe.     The  undeveloped 


()6  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

juice  of  fruit  is  very  unwholesome.  For  this  rea- 
son, it  would  be  the  height  of  folly  to  eat  it  unripe. 
Fruits  should  be  eaten  as  they  grow.  Spoil  not 
this  merciful  contribution  of  Nature  by  disguising 
its  pure  and  natural  flavor. 


BREAKFAST  No.  5. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Beefsteak.  Fried  Cracked  Wheat. 


Dried  Apple  Sauce. 
Bread  and  Butter.  Coffee. 

This  breakfast  is  w^ell  patronized  by  hearty  chil- 
dren, and  in  some  families  is  purposel}^  prepared 
for  their  benefit.     It  should  often  be  repeated. 

OATMEAL  MUSH. 

You  are  not  up  to  the  times  if  3^ou  do  not  advo- 
cate oatmeal  at  your  breakfast-table.  "  Prof. 
Liebig  has  chemically  demonstrated,  that  oatmeal 
is  almost  as  nutritious  as  the  very  best  English 
beef,  and  that  it  is  richer  than  wheat  bread  in  the 
elements  that  go  to  bone  and  muscle." 

If  this  be  true,  surely  every  family  should  vote 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  67 

that  they  will  give  it  a  place  at  their  hreakfast- 
table.  With  many  it  is  so  popular  it  is  found  at 
this  morning  meal  the  year  round. 

At  the  best  appointed  tables  it  is  served  as  a 
first  course  for  breakfiist,  the  same  as  cracked 
vs^heat.  'Tis  said  to  be  best  relished  if  eaten 
previous  to  the  rest  of  the  meal,  beside  being  a 
convenient  arrangement  for  the  preparation  of 
the  rest  of  the  breakfast. 

When  nicely  cooked,  it  is  charmingly  porous. 
Many  spoil  it  by  soaking  it  over  night,  and  fre- 
quently stirring  it  while  cooking.  The  only  safe 
and  perfect  way  of  cooking  it  is  in  a  double  or 
farina  boiler.  If  you  give  it  a  regular  place  at 
your  breakfast  table,  you  will  save  time  and  money 
by  providing  one  expressly  for  cooking  oatmeal. 
You  will  find  it  a  great  improvement  on  the  old 
way  of  cooking,  for  you  w^ill  get  a  superior  dish, 
with  no  waste  or  burning,  neither  made  pasty,  as 
by  the  stirring  process.  You  may  be  sure  of 
nicely-cooked  oatmeal,  when  steamed  in  a  double 
boiler. 

The  w^ater  should  be  boiling  in  the  outside 
boiler,  and  boiling  water  put  into  the  inside 
boiler.  Use  one  measure  of  meal  to  three  meas- 
ures of  water.  Add  salt  to  the  water.  Sprinkle 
the  meal  into  the  water,  stirring  only  a  few  mo- 


68  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BREAKFAST. 

ments ;  then  close  the  vessel,  aiid  boil  one  hour 
and  a  half.  Oatmeal,  served  in  a  half-raw  state, 
is  both  unwholesome  and  disao^reeable. 

FRIED   CRACKED  WHEAT. 

Cracked  wheat  for  frying  should  be  moulded  in 
a  brick-loaf  baking-pan,  which  gives  you  hand- 
some slices.  When  cold,  slice  it  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Fry  it  on  a  griddle,  in 
beef  drippings,  the  same  as  hasty  pudding.  Do 
not  soak  it  in  fat,  only  using  enough  to  keep  from 
sticking  to  the  pan. 

DRIED  APPLE  SAUCE. 
Thoroughly  wash  dried  apples.  Put  them  to 
soak  in  cold  water,  more  than  will  cover  them,  as 
they  absorb  a  great  deal.  Soak  the  old-fashioned 
dried  apples  for  several  hours.  Simmer  them 
steadily  in  a  preserving-kettle  in  the  same  water 
in  which  they  were  soaked,  till  cooked.  Never 
stir  them,  but  when  they  rise,  press  them  down 
with  a  spoon.  Keep  them  closely  covered.  When 
tender,  add  nice  brown  sugar,  and  simmer  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  To  be  nice  looking,  they  should 
retain  their  form  somewhat,  yet  must  be  perfectly 
done.  The  delicate,  sliced  dried  apple  can  be 
substituted,  which  requires  only  twenty  minutes' 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  69 

soaking,  and  not  as  long  cooking.  Either  are 
nice,  when  green  apples  fail. 

RAISED   LOAF   BREAD. 

There  are  no  better  rules  for  mixing,  kneading, 
and  raising  bread,  than  those  given  in  Breakfast 
No.  3  for  raised  biscuit.  The  measures  there 
given  can  be  doubled  or  trebled,  to  suit  circum- 
stances. 

LIGHT   BREAD 

is  of  great  importance.  The  saliva  and  gastric 
juice  penetrate  it  easily,  and  digestion  is  facili- 
tated. When  dense  and  solid,  these  juices  fail  to 
act  thoroughly,  which  is  necessary  to  change  bread 
into  good  blood.  Undigested  bread  corrupts  and 
decays,  poisoning  the  blood  as  certainly  as  when 
eaten  already  spoiled. 

KNEADING 

raised  bread  is  very  important,  making  it  evenly 
porous  and  easier  of  digestion.  To  be  scientific, 
the  thorough  kneading  should  be  done  before  the 
dough  is  raised, — before  the  gas  is  established; 
and  it  follows  that  as  soon  as  mixed  it  should  be 
thoroughly  kneaded  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 
If  the  thorouoh  kneadins^  is  done  after  the  bread 


70  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

is  raised,  much  of  the  gas  you  have  taken  the 
trouble  to  produce  is  pressed  out  of  it. 

For  raising  dough,  summer  heat,  or  about 
seventy  degrees,  is  most  favorable.  When  the 
temperature  is  lower  than  this,  the  fermentation  is 
so  slow  that  there  is  danger  of  acidity  before  the 
gas  has  sufficiently  formed. 

In  an  emergency,  or  haste,  a  temperature  of 
ninety  degrees  can  be  used  by  lessening  the  re- 
quirable  time,  which  is  six  or  eight  hours.  In 
this  case,  the  process  must  be  watched,  or  it  will 
sour.  If  you  find  it  rising  too  fast,  it  can  be 
arrested  by  setting  it  on  the  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place. 

When  sufficiently  raised,  it  should  be  kneaded 
ten  minutes  only,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible  ; 
then  make  it  into  loaves,  put  them  into  slightly- 
buttered  pans,  and  raise  the  second  time  till  nearly 
double  their  first  size.  If  there  is  any  danger  of 
acidity,  it  is  safer  to  bake  a  little  sooner,  for  if 
the  yeast  has  been  thoroughly  mixed  with  every 
part  of  the  dough  by  kneading,  the  bread  will  be 
passably  light,  if  the  fermentation  is  a  little  less 
than  the  rule  (doubling  the  dough). 

BAKING. 

It  is  a  very  nice  point  for  a  novice  to  decide, 
when  the  oven  is  the  right  temperature.     An  ex- 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  71 

perienced  baker  knows  this  without  any  rules. 
An  inexperienced  one  can  test  the  heat  hy  holdmg 
the  hand  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  count  twenty. 
If  the  hand  cannot  bear  the  heat  this  lenoth  of 
time,  the  oven  is  too  hot,  and  the  bread  will  bake 
outside  before  the  heat  has  reached  the  centre, 
and  it  cannot  rise.  If  not  hot  enough,  your  bread 
will  lack  s^veetness. 

When  right,  put  your  bread  into  the  oven,  and 
let  it  stand  at  this  figure  eight  or  ten  minutes,  that 
the  heat  may  penetrate  the  very  centre  before  the 
outside  bakes.  This  will  heat  the  loaf  all  throu2:h 
alike,  and  raise  it  evenly  before  crust-bound. 
Then  increase  the  heat,  and  bake  from  forty  min- 
utes to  an  hour,  the  time  depending  on  the  size  of 
the  loaf.  Generally,  we  do  not  bake  bread  thor- 
oughly. It  should  have  a  decided  brown  crust  on 
each  side. 

Always  take  bread  out  of  the  pans  as  soon  as 
done,  and  lean  it  against  a  pan,  where  the  pure 
air  can  pass  around  it.  Never  lay  it  on  the  table, 
as  it  will  absorb  the  odor  of  the  table.  If  the 
crust  gets  too  hard,  wring  out  a  bread  cloth  (which 
should  be  a  fresh  one)  in  cold  water,  and  wrap 
the  bread  in  it.  Never  put  bread  away  till  cold. 
When  warm,  it  absorbs  the  air  about  it,  wiiich 
should  be  pure  as  from  the  outside  world,  if 
possible. 


72  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BREAKFAST. 

An  old-fashioned  hanging  shelf  in  a  dry,  clean, 
and  well-ventilated  cellar,  is  the  nicest  place  to 
keep  bread.  It  should  be  kept  wrapped  in  a 
fresh  and  thick  bread-cloth.  If  you  cannot  have 
this,  or  a  similar  convenience,  the  next  best  way 
is  to  keep  it  in  a  stone  jar,  which  should  be 
washed  in  hot  water  once  or  twice  per  week. 

Never  let  failures  discourage  3^ou.  No  part  of 
cooking  education  is  more  useful,  if  turned  to 
proper  account,  than  the  discipline  of.  failure. 
The  success  of  bread-making  depends  on  effort 
and  experience.  These  will  soon  make  you  skil- 
ful, and  you  will  feel  as  confident  of  success  as  in 
making  a  cup  of  tea.  You  may  feel  sure  there  is 
no  luck  about  it.  To  be  successful,  care  is  re- 
quired, as  in  anything  else. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTP. 


BREAKFAST  No.  6. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Beefsteak.  Rye  Muffins. 


Lyonnaise  Potatoes.        Baked  Sweet  Apples. 


Coffee.  Grapes. 

HOMINY   AND    MILK. 

There  are  many  ancestral  dishes  which  should 
be  perpetuated.  They  should  be  warmly  recom- 
mended to  children  if  we  wish  to  preserve  the 
vigor  of  our  race.  Hominy  is  one  of  the  old-time 
preparations  which  should  not  be  forgotten. 

It  should  be  washed  in  two  or  three  waters 
as  you  wash  rice.  Fine  hominy  requires  four 
measures  of  water  to  one  of  hominy.  Put  it 
into  an  inner  boiler  and  allow  it  to  swell  for  half 
an  hour ;  then  l)oil  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Like  all  mushes,  it  should  be  salted  very- 
lightly.  It  is  better  to  put  the  salt  into  the  water 
before  adding  the  grain.  When  nearly  done,  if 
too  thin,  uncover,  and  boil  till  about  the  con- 
sistency of  hasty  pudding. 


74  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


RYE    MUFFINS. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  lye  meal. 

One  cup  of  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  milk. 

Three  ei>^o's. 

One  saltspoon  of  salt. 

No  soda  or  cream  tartar. 

Mix  the  salt  with  rye  meal  and  flour  Add  the 
sugar  to  the  eggs  and  thoroughly  beat  them,  then 
pour  into  the  flour.  Add  the  milk,  bringing  it  to 
a  batter  quickly,  beating  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Bake  in  stone  muffin  cups  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  or  more.  Rye  cakes  require  more  baking 
than  other  cake.     These  are  very  light  and  nice. 

LYONNAISE    POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice.  When  in 
the  stew-pan,  add  cream  enough  to  keep  them 
moist,  and  simmer  till  hot.  They  should  be  of  a 
light  color.  When  hot,  mix  in  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  butter.  Serve  immediately  while 
hot. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  75 

BAKED    SWEET   APPLES. 

Put  them  into  a  tin  gem  pan.  Bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Do  not  have  them  overdone,  but 
retain  their  form.  For  breakfast,  they  must  be 
baked  the  day  previous. 

GRAPES. 
"This  fruit  is  a  medicine  as  well  as  a  luxury, 
and  should  be  highly  prized.  The  free  use  of  the 
grape  has  a  most  salutary  effect  upon  the  system, 
diluting  the  blood,  removing  obstructions  from 
the  liver  and  kidneys,  and  enabling  the  blood  to 
circulate  in  the  remotest  vessels  of  the  skin,  also, 
a  healthful  effect  on  that  compound  affliction,  dys- 
pepsia. From  two  to  four  pounds  per  day  may 
be  eaten  with  benefit.  These  remarks  apply  to 
the  fruit  when  perfectly  ripe ;  when  unripe,  like 
all  unripe  fruit,  it  deranges  the  digestive  organs." 


76  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  7. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
A  Top  Round  Beefsteak.  Boiled  Eggs. 


Fried  Hominy. 
Coffee.  Strawberries. 

A    BEEFSTEAK 

From  the  round  affords  more  juice  than  any  other 
cut.  If  you  know  how  to  market  (and  I  am  sorry 
to  say  that  housekeepers  have  to  trust  too  much 
to  their  provision  dealer),  select  a  cut  from  the 
top  of  the  round,  and  if  not  tough  you  will  not 
ask  for  a  nicer,  more  juicy  steak.  I  have  eaten  it 
so  tender  and  juicy,  that  I  thought  it  was  a  nice 
rump  steak.  It  makes  an  inexpensive  breakfast, 
being  much  cheaper  per  pound  than  other  beef- 
steaks. 

BOILED  EGGS. 
This,  beyond  question,  is  the  most  popular  way 
of  serving  eggs,  for  which  I  give  an  approved 
French  method.  Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water.  Place  in  it  fresh  eggs.  Put  on  the  lid 
of  saucepan  and  set  on  the   stove   where  it  will 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  77 

keep  boiling  hot,  but  not  boil.  Let  the  eggs 
remain  six  or  eight  minutes,  or  as  suits  your 
guests.  Serve  in  a  napkin,  on  a  dish,  folding  it 
over  to  retain  the  heat,  or  use  a  covered  egg  dish. 

FRIED  HOMINY. 

Cook  your  hominy  as  in  Breakfast  ISToo  6. 
Moukl  it  in  a  small  oblong  tin  pan.  There  is  a 
size,  which  will  give  you  slices  just  square  when 
cut.  Wet  the  pan  with  cold  water  to  prevent  its 
sticking.  When  cold  cut  in  slices  nearly  an  inch 
thick,  flour  each  side,  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  on 
the  griddle,  in  a  little  butter  or  sweet  drippings. 
It  should  be  cooked  the  day  previous. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

If  the  system  is  more  or  less  feverish,  and  such 
is  the  case  usually  with  most  people,  nothing  can 
be  more  refreshing  and  cooling  than  ripe  straw- 
berries. They  are  a  great  preservative  against 
the  heating  influence  of  meats  in  hot  weather. 
'Tis  said  that  the  strawberry  is  the  most  whole- 
some of  all  fruits,  being  easy  of  digestion,  and 
never  growing  acid  by  fermentation  on  the  stom- 
ach, as  most  other  fruits  do. 


78  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  8. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Beefsteak.  Squash  Biscuit. 


Baked  Apple  Sauce. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

SQUASH    BISCUIT. 

These  dainty  biscuit  always  meet  with  a  warm 
reception.  When  in  perfection,  they  are  fit  to  set 
before  a  king. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  squash. 

Half  a  teacup  of  sugar. 

Half  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 

One  heaping  spoonful  of  butter,  creamed. 

One  cupful  of  scalded  milk. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  bread  batter. 

Mix  these  ingredients,  and  add  the  yeast,  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  a  scant  cup  of  warm  water. 
Stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead 
twenty  minutes.  In  the  morning,  knead  the  second 
time,  make  into  flat  biscuit  and  rise  one  hour. 
Bake  half  an  hour. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  79 


BREAKFAST  No.  9. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 

Beefsteak  a  la  Frying  Pan.  Indian  Sponge  Cake. 

Cucumbers. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

BEEFSTEAK    A    LA    FRYING    PAN. 

If  you  have  no  conveniences  for  broiling,  the 
next  best  thing  is  to  substitute  the  frying  pan, 
which  is  broihng  by  coming  in  contact  with  a  hot 
iron.  Heat  the  frying  pan  hot,  grease  it  with  a 
little  of  the  fot  cut  from  the  steak,  just  enough 
to  prevent  it  from  sticking.  When  the  steak 
touches  the  pan,  it  adheres,  but  in  a  second  it 
loosens.  Keep  it  covered,  at  the  same  time  turn 
it  often.     Season  the  usual  way. 

Or  you  can  make  a  nice  gravy  which  many  like. 
Into  the  same  pan  put  half  a  cup  of  water.  Make 
a  smooth  thickening  of  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
add  this  and  boil  it  a  minute.  When  done,  stir  in 
a  spoonful  of  butter.  Pour  this  over  the  steak 
and  serve  immediately. 


80  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

INDIAN  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  com  meal. 

One  cup  of  flour. 

One  teaspoon  of  soda. 

One  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Half  a  cup  of  creamed  butter. 

Three  esfo^s. 

Two  cups  of  rich  sour  milk. 

Sift  flour,  meal,  soda  and  salt  together.  Beat 
the  eo^ofs  and  suo;ar  tos^ether.  Make  a  hollow  in 
the  flour  and  pour  in  the  egg  mixture  and  butter. 
Lastly  the  sour  milk,  thoroughly  mixing  the 
whole.     Bake  at  once  in  a  loaf  or  flat  tin  pans. 

CUCUMBERS. 

The  art  of  preparing  cucumbers  consists  in  their 
being  crisp  and  cool.  They  should  be  put  into 
very  cold  water  or  on  ice.  Half  an  hour  before 
eating,  peel  and  slice  them,  leaving  them  in  ice 
water  till  breakfast  is  ready.  Then  drain  theni; 
and  season  to  taste. 


BEEFSTEAK    BREAKFASTS.  81 

BREAKFAST  No.  10. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Beefsteak.  Plain  Omelette. 


Huckleberry  Shortcake. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

PLAIN    OMELETTE. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  87.) 


HUCKLEBERRY    SHORT    CAKE. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  large  pint  of  berries. 

Half  a  cup  of  creamed  butter. 

Half  a  cup  or  more  of  sugar. 

Two  eggs ;  two  cups  of  sour  milk. 
Sift  soda  and  salt  with  the  flour.  Mix  berries 
with  the  flour,  coating  ever}^  berry  so  as  to  be 
separate.  Beat  the  eggs  and  mix  with  the  1)utter 
and  sugar.  ]Make  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  then  the  sour  milk. 
Stir  all  carefully  together,  else  you  will  mash  the 
berries.     Bake  in  pans,  three-quarters  full. 


82  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   11. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Beefsteak.  Corn  Oysters. 


Sally  Lunn  Cake. 
Coffee.  Watermelon. 

CORN    OYSTERS 

Are  made  in  this  way.  Mix  with  a  pint  of  grated 
green  corn,  three  tablepoonsfiils  of  milk,  two  or 
three  beaten  eggs  and  a  lieaping  spoonful  of  flour. 
They  are  not  as  nice  with  too  much  flour.  Season 
lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Drop  it  by  dessert 
spoonfuls  into  a  little  hot  butter  on  a  griddle. 
Brown  on  both  sides  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 
They  have  much  the  flavor  of  fried  oysters. 


SALLY    LUNN    CAKE. 

This  genuine  old-fashioned  Sally  Lunn  cake, 
named  after  the  inventor,  will  hardly  give  place 
to  any  of  the  recent  compounds  of  the  saire  name. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  83 


When  hot  and  well  buttered,  it  is  a  favorite  break- 
fast cake. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed, 

Or  half  a  cup  of  lively  liquid  yeast. 

Two  eggs. 

Two  tablespoons  of  white  sugar. 

One  pint  of  warm  milk. 

Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour.  Add  the  yeast 
dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  of  warm  water,  and 
gradually  the  milk,  which,  if  scalded,  will  not  be 
so  likely  to  sour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
then  the  whites,  then  both  together  with  the  sugar, 
and  stir  into  the  batter.  Beat  the  whole  till 
smooth.  This  should  be  a  soft  dough  that  you  can 
comfortably  stir,  not  pour.  Set  this  to  rise  over 
night.  Early  in  the  morning,  when  well  risen, 
cream  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg, 
and  dissolve  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  very 
little  warm  water.  Mingle  these  with  the  dough. 
Butter  your  baking  pans,  till  them  two  inches 
deep,  and  rise  till  their  size  is  doubled.  Bake 
half  an  hour.  This  cake  should  be  broken  when 
served,  and  not  cut  with  a  knife. 


84  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  12. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 


Beefsteak.  Short  Cake  Toast. 


Stewed  Prunes. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit, 

SHORT  CAKE  TOAST. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

Two  teaspooufuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  cupful  of  butter. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Or  very  cold  water. 

Mix  salt,  soda,  and  cream-tartar  into  flour,  per 
rule.  Rub  the  butter  into  this  mixture  till  dry 
and  poAvdery.  Add  the  milk,  and  work  the  whole 
together.  Sprinkle  your  board  with  flour,  turn 
out  the  dough,  work  it  very  lightly,  with  as  little 
flour  as  possible,  as  this  should  be  soft  dough. 
Divide  your  dough  into  three  or  four  parts.  Roll 
each  part  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fit  to 
oblong  sheet  pans. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  85 

When  baked,  and  nicely  browned,  cut  into 
squares,  split  each,  butter  while  hot,  and  place 
them  in  a  pile,  like  toast.     Serve  at  once. 

STEWED   PRUNES. 

Wash  them.  They  should  be  stewed  in  a  por- 
celain kettle,  and  just  covered  with  boiling  water. 
When  covered  closely,  let  them  simmer  till  swollen 
and  tender.  Do  not  let  them  break.  When  about 
half  done,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  a  quart 
of  prunes.  For  breakfast,  they  should  not  be 
very  sweet.  Cook  the  day  previous,  for  break- 
fast. 


BREAKFAST  No.  13. 

Oatmeal  Mush, 
Beefsteak.  Fried  Onions.  Corn  Cake. 


Sweet  Pickled  Beets. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

•  FRIED   ONIONS. 
This  dish  is  said  to  have  extraordinary  sanitary 
merits,  and  is  regarded  w^ith  high  favor  by  many, 
while  others,  of  more  refined  sensibilities,  regard 


SQ  WHAT   TO   GET   FOR  BREAKFAST. 

it  with  disgust,  and  do  not  think  it  a  permissible 
dish. 

Peel  and  slice  your  onions,  put  them  into  a 
frying-pan  with  leaf  drippings  and  a  very  little 
water.  Do  not  have  them  too  fat,  but  use  only 
drippings  enough  to  relish  them.  Fry  till  tender, 
turning  often,  until  a  uniform  brown.  Season 
with  salt. 

CORN  CAKES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  9.) 

SWEET  PICKLED   BEETS. 

These  are  simply  made,  by  boiling  together  a 
little  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  pouring  it  over  a  few 
sliced,  boiled  beets.  They  will  pickle  sufficiently 
in  twelve  hours. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  87 


BREAKFAST  No.  14. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Beefsteak.  Huckleberry  Muffins. 


Boiled  Eggs. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

HUCKLEBERRY  MUFFINS. 

Just  three  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Just  half  a  cup  of  Indian  meal. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  heaping  spoonful  of  butter. 

Half  a  cup  of  white  sugar. 

Two  eofo^s. 

CO 

Two  cups  of  nicely-soured  milk. 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  berries. 

Mix  soda  and  salt  w^ith  flour  and  meal,  cream 
the  butter,  beat  the  eggs,  and  with  the  sugar  add- 
to  the  flour.    Mix  all  together  till  smooth.    When 
mixed,  carefully  add  the  berries  without  mashing. 
Bake  in  muffin-pans. 


88  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKTAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  15. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 
Oven-broiled  Beefsteak.      Parker-House  Biscuit. 


Green  Corn  on  the  Cob. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

OVEN-BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Try  this  labor-saving  experiment,  and,  like 
others,  you  may  sanction  it.  Perchance,  if  not 
apprised,  you  might  not  suspect  that  your  steak 
was  not  gridiron-broiled.  To  begin,  your  oven 
must  be  very,  very  hot,  else  you  will  lose  the 
juice  of  your  steak.  A  moderate  oven  would  ruin 
it,  for,  to  be  in  perfection,  it  must  be  quickly 
seared  with  heat.  Other  principles  are  the  same 
as  for  gridiron-broiling. 

Lay  your  steak  into  a  dripping-pan  large  enough 
to  hold  it  without  condensing.  Set  it  in  a  hot 
oven.  If  thick,  it  will  need  to  remain  ten  min- 
utes, according  to  the  doneness  you  prefer.  When 
done,  season  to  taste,  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  89 


PARKER-HOUSE  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 
One  pint  of  warm  scalded  milk. 
One  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Half  a  cake  of  compressed, 
Or  half  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  pan,  and  make  a  hol- 
low in  the  middle  of  it.  Put  in  the  other  ingre- 
dients, in  the  following  order :  Sugar,  butter, 
which  must  be  creamed,  milk,  and  yeast.  Do  not 
stir  these,  after  putting  them  together.  For 
breakfast,  arrange  this  about  two  o'clock  in  the 
afternoon,  and  set  it  in  a  temperature  of  sixty 
degrees.  In  the  evening,  mix  all  together,  and 
knead  fifteen  minutes.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning,  cut  out  the  biscuit,  set  each  one 
apart  from  his  neighbor,  and,  when  suflaciently 
risen,  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

GREEN   CORN. 
This  is  very  acceptable  in  the  country,  where 
corn  can  be  freshly  and  easily  obtained.    Boil  twen- 
ty minutes.     The  milk  should  be  well  developed 
in  the  kernels,  or  no  nourishment  will  be  effected. 


90  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  16. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Beefsteak.  Flour  and  Indian  Waffles, 


Baked  Apple  Sauce. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

FLOUR  AND  INDIAN  WAFFLES. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Half  a  cup  of  Indian  meal. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Two  eo^o^s. 

Two  cups  of  rich  sour  milk. 

Mix  salt  and  soda  with  flour  and  meal.  Cream 
the  butter.  Beat  the  eo^o^s.  Make  a  hollow  in 
the  middle  of  the  flour,  and  pour  these  into  it ; 
lastly  the  sour  milk,  stirring  the  whole  to  a  smooth 
batter.  Heat  the  Avaffle  irons,  butter  them  well, 
fill  three-quarters  full,  and  bake  over  a  clear  and 
steady  fire.  They  should  be  evenly  browned,  and 
not  scorched. 


BEEFSTEAK   BREAKFASTS.  91 

BREAKFAST  No.  17. 

Shredded  Raw  Beefsteak. 


Dropped  Eggs.  Jelly. 

Tea,  Cocoa,  or  Coffee. 

Ripe  Fruit. 

SHREDDED   RAW  BEEFSTEAK. 

This  nutritious  dish,  when  accompanied  with  an 
egg  and  calf's-foot  jelly,  is  exceedingly  tempting 
to  a  capricious  appetite.  Shred  the  beef  with  a 
beef-shredder.  Eemove  every  particle  of  skin  and 
fat.  Mix  it  with  oatmeal  cracker  crumbs.  Sea- 
son to  taste. 

DROPPED  EGGS. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  1.) 

TEA. 

Tea  and  coffee,  when  not  taken  to  excess,  are 
harmless ;  when  used  immoderately,  they  are  de- 
cidedly injurious.  Says  a  learned  Chinese  pro- 
fessor, "  When  tea  is  taken  in  moderate  quantities, 
it  has  a  soothing  influence,  refreshing  the  body, 
awakening  thought,  clearing  perception,  and  pre- 


92  WHAT   TO   GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

venting  drowsiness.  But  when  taken  in  excess,  it 
produces  nervous  tremblings,  the  heart  beats 
stronger,  the  pulse  becomes  more  frequent,  the 
thoughts  wander,  and  a  peculiar  state  of  intoxica- 
tion comes.     Beware  of  an  overdose." 

An  earthen  teapot  is  more  wholesome  for 
steeping  tea  than  tin.  The  water  of  which  it  is 
made  should  always  be  freshly  boiled,  and  boiling 
hot  when  added  to  the  tea  ;  the  tea-pot  rinsed  and 
scalded  each  time  that  tea  is  made.  Many  a  nice 
cup  of  tea'  has  been  spoiled  by  not  scalding  the 
teapot. 


SECTION  IV. 

COLD  BEEF  BREAKFASTS. 


COLD    BEEF   BREAKFASTS.  95 


IV. 

COLD   BEEF  UTILIZED. 

Much  of  the  cold  beef  left  from  dinners  and 
thrown  away  as  w^orthless,  could  be  reproduced 
upon  the  breakfast  ta])le  w^ith  satisfaction  to 
guests,  if  tastefully  prepared  and  accompanied 
with  harmonious  dishes. 


BREAKFAST  No.  18. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Delmonico's  Corned  Beef  Hash.        Corn  Bread  Loaf. 


Sweet  Pickled  Beets. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

Althouirh  corned  beef  hash  is  verv  ancient,  it 
has  stood  the  test  of  time,  and  when  well  prepared 
is  much  esteemed,  and  is  by  no  means  despised  at 
Delmonico's. 

There  are  many  ways  of  spoiling  it.  First,  by 
frying  instead  of  heating  it.  Second,  by  dredging 
Hour  into  it,  which  imparts  a  raw  taste  like  dough. 
Third,  by  using  too  much  water,  which  makes  it 
insipid.  Fourth,  by  using  too  much  fat  or  gravy, 
which  spoils  its  delicacy.  Lastly,  by  burning  it, 
which  gives  it  a  bitter  flavor. 


96  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


DELMONICO'S  CORNED   BEEF  HASH. 

Chop  cold  corned  beef  rather  fine,  but  not  too 
fine.  Chop,  not  mash,  about  one-third  as  large  a 
quantity  of  cold  boiled  potatoes.  They  are  not  as 
nice  for  beef  hash  when  hot,  and  if  either  potatoes 
or  meat  are  chopped  too  fine,  your  hash  will  be 
salvy.  Have  it  neither  dry  nor  watery,  but  moist. 
Cover  it  close  and  heat  a  few  minutes.  When 
hot,  if  no  gravy  has  been  used,  stir  into  it  a  little 
butter.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Many  think  the  perfection  of  corned  beef  hash 
is  to  chop  a  boiled  beet  with  it.  This  is  very 
good  when  made  in  right  proportions  and  not  too 
much  beet.  You  do  not  need  quite  as  much 
potato  when  beet  is  added.  In  this  case  you  omit 
the  pickled  beet,  and  provide  a  substitute. 

CORN   BREAD   LOAF. 
Two  cups  of  yellow  meal. 
One  cup  of  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Two  esrars. 
Half  a  cup  of  sugar. 
One  heaping  tablespoon  of  solid  butter. 
Two  cups  of  rich  sweet  milk. 


COLD    BEEF   BREAKFASTS.  97 

Mix  salt,  soda,  and  cream-tartar  with  flour  and 
meal,  according  to  the  rule  already  given.  Cream 
the  butter.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together.  Add 
all  to  the  mixture.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  milk,  and 
beat  the  whole  a  few  minutes.  "This  loaf  is  best 
when  baked  in  round  sheet-iron  pans  that  are  four 
inches  deep.  The  loaf  should  be  that  thickness 
when  baked.  When  served  cut  it  pie-fashion  if 
baked  in  round  pans." 


BREAKFAST  No.   19. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Roast  Beef  Hash.  Parker  House  Biscuit. 


Warmed-up"  Potatoes.        Cabbage  Salad. 


Coffee. 

ROAST  BEEF  HASH. 
Chop  fine,  moisten  with  some  of  the  remaining 
gravy,  and   heat   hot,  but  do   not   stew  it.     All 
meats,  when  reheated,  should  be  done  quickly,  or 
they  will  be  oily  and  unpalatable. 

*'^WARMED-UP"   POTATOES. 
Cut   each  potato    into    lengthwise    slices.     Fry 
them  a  nice  brown  on  each  side  in  a  little  beef 
drippings. 


98  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


CABBAGE   SALAD. 

This  nitrogenous  and  herbaceous  vegetable, 
when  eaten  raw,  is  easily  digested,  and  should  be 
often  seen  upon  our  tables.  It  should  be  sliced 
very  fine  or  chopped,  and  demands  sugar  and 
vinegar  to  be  palatable. 


BREAKFAST  No.  20. 

*  Hominy  and  Milk. 

Baked  Potatoes.  Cream-tartar  Biscuit. 


Sweet  Pickled  Beets.  Coffee. 

SLICED   COLD  CORN   BEEF. 

Cold  corned  beef,  with  harmonious  accompani- 
ments, makes  a  nice  and  convenient  breakfast. 
After  all  the  bones  are  removed,  it  should  be 
pressed  in  a  "brick  loaf"  pan  over  night  and 
evenly  sliced  for  breakfast  in  the  morning. 

CREAM-TARTAR   BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  pint  of  milk. 


COLD    BEEF   BREAKFASTS.  99 

Mix  salt,  soda,  and  cream-tartar  with  flour. 
"Add  the  milk  and  thoroughly  stir  so  that  the 
alkali  may  evenly  efiervesce.  Dredge  your  board, 
turn  the  dough  upon  it,  which  quickly  bring  into 
a  body  without  kneading  it  at  all,  as  the  success 
depends  upon  the  rapid  mixing  and  baking.  Roll 
lightly  into  a  sheet  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into 
rounds  with  a  small  tin  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


BREAKFAST  No.  21. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Sliced  Cold  Roast  Beef.  Canned  Corn  Oysters. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Raised  Waffles. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

For  many,  there  is  no  nicer  breakfast  than  cold 
roast  beef.  When  accompanied  with  corn  oysters, 
baked  potatoes  and  waffles,  it  should  not  fail  to 
satisfy. 

CANNED   CORN   OYSTERS. 

The  inventor  of  canning  has  put  us  in  possession 
of  green  corn  every  month  in  the  year.    Although 


100  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

we  cannot  perfectly  recognize  our  dainty  and 
succulent  green  corn  of  summer,  yet  by  largely 
drawing  on  faith  we  forget  the  discount  and  get 
the  whole  of  that  asrreeable  veofetable  when  out 
of  season.  When  made  into  corn  oysters,  it  is 
graciously  accepted  at  the  breakfast  table.  For 
directions,  see  corn  oysters. 

RAISED   WAFFLES. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  warm  milk. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast, 

Or  half  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast. 

One  tablespoonful  of  creamed  butter. 

Put  the  salt,  butter,  yeast  and  warm  milk  into 
the  middle  of  the  flour.  Mix  to  a  batter,  and  set 
to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  when  ready 
to  bake,  beat  two  or  three  eggs,  then  beat  them  to 
the  batter.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a 
very  little  warm  water  and  stir  throughout  at  the 
last  moment.  Heat  the  waflie  irons,  butter  them 
well,  and  fill  nearly  three-quarters  full.  Brown 
them  evenly  on  both  sides.     Do  not  scorch  them. 


COLD   BEEF   BREAKFASTS.  101 

BREAKFAST  No.  22. 

Roast  Beef  and  Barley  Stew. 


Cream-tartar  Biscuit.  Coffee. 


Country  Griddle  Cakes.  Stewed  Prunes. 


ROAST   BEEF    AND   BARLEY  STEW. 

To  a  pint  of  cold  roast  beef  when  cut  into  slices, 
add  a  cup  of  boiled  barley,  three  or  four  slices  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  a  grain  of  salt.  Put  all 
into  a  stewpan  with  nearly  two  cups  of  water. 
Simmer  ten  minutes.  Or  you  can  substitute 
boiled  cracked  wheat.     Very  nice. 

COUNTRY  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoon  of  salt. 

One  scant  pint  of  sour  milk  or  cream. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Make  a  smooth  batter  of  flour  and  milk.  Beat 
this  until  a  lightness  is  evident.  Now  dissolve  the 
soda  in  a  very  little  warm  water  and  beat  it  into 
the  batter.     Have  the  griddle  hot  and  greased  all 


102  WHAT   TO   GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

over  with  butter.  Drop  your  batter  in  spoonfuls 
well  apart,  on  the  griddle.  When  the  cakes 
bubble  all  over,  slip  your  griddle-spade  under 
each  cake  and  turn  quickly.  Bake  the  other  side, 
and  when  done  send  to  the  table  quickly  on  a  hot 
plate.  Send  only  one  batch  at  a  time.  They 
should  be  eaten  as  quickly  as  possible  from  the 
griddle. 


BREAKFAST  No.  23. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Fried  Liver.  Fried  Apples. 


Corn  Bread  Loaf.  Coffee. 

FRIED   LIVER. 

Fried  liver  is  a  favorite  with  many.  It  should 
not  be  strongly  urged,  yet  it  is  better  than  no 
meat.  Have  your  beef  drippings  boiling  hot  when 
the  liver  is  put  into  it,  or  it  will  soak  fat.  It 
needs  to  be  well  cooked,  though  not  to  a  crisp, 
which  makes  it  juiceless. 

FRIED  APPLES 

Are  an  acceptable  companion  for  liver.     Do  not 
pare  them,  but  preserve  the  form  of  the  slices 


COLD    BEEF   BREAKFASTS.  103 

with  the  paring.  Add  a  spoonful  of  water,  some 
of  the  liver  gravy,  cover  closely  and  fry  without 
stirring.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  little  Porto 
Eico  molasses. 


SECTION  V. 

VENISON  BREAKFASTS. 


VENISON   BREAKFASTS.  107 

V. 

VENISON    BREAKFASTS. 

Deer  have  the  zoological  marks  which  distin- 
guish them  from  mi  wholesome  animals,  conse- 
quently venison  can  be  eaten  with  a  clear  con- 
science. It  is  toothsome,  strengthening,  and  easily 
digested. 


BREAKFAST  No.  24. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Venison  Steak.  Currant  Jelly. 


Rice  Waffles.  Ripe  Fruit. 


Coffee. 

Venison  takes  a  few  minutes  longer  to  broil  than 
beefsteak.  Have  your  fire  clear  and  hot.  Broil 
rapidly,  turning  often.  Observe  the  same  rules 
as  for  beefsteak,  so  as  not  to  lose  a  drop  of  juice. 
Have  ready  a  hot  platter  on  which  are  a  few  bits 
of  butter.  When  done,  lay  your  steak  on  the 
butter,  turning  it  over  and  salting  it  on  each  side, 
adding  a  little  currant  jelly. 


108  WHAT    TO   GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


RICE   WAFFLES. 

One  cupful  of  boiled  rice. 

Three  eggs. 

One  heaping  teaspoon  of  broken  butter. 

One  saltspoon  of  salt. 

Two  cupsful  of  sour  milk. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Separate  the  grains  of  rice,  cream  the  butter, 
beat  the  eggs,  and  stir  those  together.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  very  little  warm  water,  which  stir  to 
the  milk  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Have  the  waffle  irons  hot  and  greased  with 
butter.  Fill  them  three-quarters  full.  Be  careful 
not  to  burn  them.  Bake  the  first  side  before 
turning. 


VENISON   BREAKFASTS.  109 


BREAKFAST  No.  25. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Venison  Hash  on  Toast.         Rice  Croquettes. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

Chop  remnants  of  cold  roast  venison  as  for 
roast  beef  hash.  Add  to  it  a  little  of  the  venison 
gravy.  Do  not  have  it  watery,  only  moist.  Heat 
hot,  but  do  not  stew  it.     Serve  hot. 

RICE    CROQUETTES. 
Eoll   boiled   rice   into    little  balls,  then  flatten 
them.    Coat  with  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs.    Bake 
on  a  griddle,  greased  with  butter. 


110  ^VHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST, 


BREAKFAST  No.  26. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Venison  Rolls.  Buttered  Toast. 


Tomato  Sauce,  or  Currant  Jelly. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

When  beautifully  cooked,  this  breakfast  van- 
ishes like  a  vision.  Have  venison  steaks  cut  thin. 
Trim  off  the  fat.  Mix  together,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  of  thyme  or  summer  savory,  and  one 
saltspoon  of  pepper.  Sprinkle  this  seasoning  over 
the  steaks,  roll  them  tightly  and  tie.  Lay  them 
on  a  trivet  or  stand,  fitted  into  a  roasting  pan. 
Have  a  hot  oven,  that  the  surface  may  soon  sear 
and  securely  hold  the  juices.  Bake  half  an  hour 
or  more.  These  are  quite  as  nice  as  sausages,  and 
you  are  certain  of  what  you  are  eating. 

N.  B.  —  When  a  dish  is  repeated,  and  no  refer- 
ence made  to  it,  its  directions  can  easily  be  found 
by  referring  to  the  preface. 


SECTION  VI. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS.      113 


VI. 

MUTTON  AND   LAMB   BREAKFASTS. 

Sheep  literally  fulfil  the  required  terms  of  the 
Bible's  sanitary  laws.  They  are  exclusively  con- 
fined to  vegetable  food,  which  makes  mutton  and 
lamb  wholesome  and  agreeable. 


BREAKFAST  No.  27. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 
Broiled  Mutton  Chops.  Graham  Puffs. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Sliced  Tomatoes. 


Coffee. 

BROILED  MUTTON  CHOPS 
Are  especially  nice  when  broiled  in  perfection. 
The  gridiron  must  first  be  warmed,  or  the  chop 
will  stick  to  the  bars.  A  fine  chop  is  full  of  juice, 
and  none  of  it  should  be  wasted.  The  heat  of  the 
fire  should  be  so  great  that  it  will  instantly  harden 
the  outside  of  the  meat  so  that  the  juices  cannot 


114  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

run  out.  Never  stick  a  fork  into  a  chop,  as  it  lets 
out  the  juice.  When  done,  salt,  and  butter. 
Serve  hot. 

GRAHAM    PUFFS. 
One  cup  and  a  half  Graham  flour. 
One  cup  of  flour. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Two  liberal  cups  of  sweet  milk. 
Three  eggs. 

Mix  salt  with  the  flour.  Beat  up  a  batter  with 
the  flour  and  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to 
a  froth.  Beat  the  whites  till  stiff".  Beat  the 
yolks,  then  the  whites  into  the  batter.  Bake  in 
buttered  stone  cups  half  an  hour  or  more.  Use 
your  judgment  and  do  not  keep  them  in  too  long. 
When  done  they  will  be  well  popped  over.  Keep 
the  oven  closed  as  much  as  possible. 

Ignorant  cooks  often  spoil  this  simple  and 
delicate  cake  by  persisting  to  use  baking  powders 
or  soda.  They  cannot  believe  they  will  rise  with- 
out them. 

SLICED    TOMATOES. 
These    are   a   favorite    complement    to   chops. 
Select  the  fairest  ripe  ones.     Scald  and  peel  them. 
When    cold,    slice   them.       Dress   with   vinegar, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS.      115 

BREAKFAST  No.  28. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Broiled  Lamb  Chops.  Breakfast  Puffs. 


Tomato  Sauce. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

LAMB   CHOPS 
Are  a  convenient,  simple,  and  dainty  breakfast, 
being  readily  accomplished,  requiring  only  nicety 
and  attention.     Broil  the  same  as  mutton  chops. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  27.) 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS. 
Two  cups  of  flour. 
Two  cups  of  sweet  milk. 
Two  eo'srs. 
One  salt-spoon  of  salt. 

Beat  up  a  batter  with  the  flour  and  milk.  Add 
salt.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  sepa- 
rately and  thoroughly.  Then  beat  them  separately 
to  the  batter.  Fill  gem-pans  or  stone  cups  a  little 
more  than  half  full.  Have  a  quick  oven.  Some- 
times half  an  hour  bakes  them,  but  often  it  takes 
more.  When  done,  they  will  be  evenly  browned, 
and  well  popped  over. 


116      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  29. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Fried  Breaded  Mutton  Chops. 


Raised  Graham  Muffins.         Baked  Potatoes. 


Broiled  Tomatoes.  Coffee. 

FRIED  BREADED  MUTTON   CHOPS. 

This  is  an  admirable  breakfast,  when  served  dry 
and  hot.  Trim  off  the  superfluous  skin  and  fat, 
to  give  the  chops  an  elegant  appearance.  Dip 
each  chop  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  it  in  powdered 
crackers.  Meantime,  have  the  superfluous  fat 
tried  out  in  a  frying-pan,  and,  when  boiling  hot, 
lay  the  chops  into  it,  and  fry.  Use  as  little  fat  as 
possible. 

RAISED  GRAHAM   MUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Graham  meal,  unsifted. 

One  cupful  of  white  flour. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  or  warm  water. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  Porto  Rico  Molasses. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed, 

Or  half  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS.      117 

Mix  flour,  meal,  and  salt.  Scald  the  milk,  and, 
when  at  blood  heat,  pour  into  the  middle  of  the 
flom\  Dissolve  yeast,  and  with  the  molasses  add 
to  the  mixture.  Beat  all  thoroughly  to  a  batter 
dough.  When  well  mixed,  set  it  in  a  temperature 
of  about  sixty-five  degrees  over  night.  Graham 
sponge  sours  more  quickly  than  white,  and  should 
not  rise  in  so  high  a  temperature. 

Early  in  the  morning,  beat  it  up  well,  and  let  it 
rise  again.  When  about  to  bake,  dissolve  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  very  little  warm  water, 
and  thoroughly  incorporate  it  with  the  batter. 
Bake  in  well-buttered  muffin-tins  or  gem-pans. 
These  do  not  require  so  hot  an  oven  as  white  muf- 
fins, but  should  bake  longer. 

BROILED  TOMATO. 

Cut  each  tomato  into  two  slices,  without  peeling. 
Lay  them  into  a  wire  gridiron,  and  broil  carefully, 
turning  like  steak,  to  keep  the  juice.  Have  them 
a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  When  dished,  add  a 
bit  of  butter  to  each.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


118  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  30. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 


Oven-broiled  Mutton  Chops.       Baked  Potatoes. 


Graham  Biscuit.  Tomato  Sauce. 


Coffee. 

If  you  try  this  labor-saving  experiment,  you 
may  conclude  that  your  mutton  chops  are  only  in 
perfection  when  oven-broiled.  Trim  the  chops, 
but  not  so  much  as  to  make  them  entirely  deficient 
in  fat.  Lay  them  in  a  meat-pan,  and  broil  in  a 
quick  oven.  A  slow  oven  would  spoil  them.  Do 
not  broil  them  too  long.     Season  and  serve. 

GRAHAM   BISCUIT. 

The  preceding  Graham  muffin  receipt  makes  a 
nice  biscuit  mixture.  Observe  its  full  direc- 
tions. The  usual  failure  in  Graham  biscuit  is 
generally  caused  by  kneading  in  too  much  flour. 
They  should  be  made  less  stiflf  than  white  biscuit, 
and  kneaded  just  as  soft  as  possible.  Prick  the 
biscuit  with  a  fork,  to  prevent  the  crust  from 
binding. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BEEAKFASTS.      119 


BREAKFAST  No.  31. 


Whole  Wheat. 


Minced  Lamb.  Boiled  Eggs. 


Cracked  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

'V\nien  well  gotten,  this  dainty  and  nourishing 
breakfast  is  fit  to  set  before  a  sovereign. 

MINCED  LAMB. 

Mince  fine,  cold  roast  lamb.  Moisten  it  with  a 
very  little  of  the  gravy.  Simmer  till  hot.  If 
you  have  no  gravy,  add  a  little  water  instead,  and, 
when  hot,  add  a  bit  of  butter.  Do  not  moisten 
it  too  much.     Serve  hot. 

CRACKED  WHEAT  GRIDDLES. 

One  cupful  of  cooked  cracked  wheat. 

Three  eo'crs. 

One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  broken  butter. 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


120  WHAT   TO   GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Separate  the  grains  of  wheat,  add  the  milk, 
cream  the  butter,  beat  the  eggs,  and  stir  them 
together.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  very  little  warm 
water,  and  stir  into  the  mixture,  adding  flour 
enough  to  make  a  griddle  batter.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle,  greased  with  butter. 


BREAKFAST  No.  32. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Lamb  Fricassee.       Raised  Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam). 


Batced  Potatoes. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

LAMB   FRICASSEE 

Makes  an  appetizing  and  nourishing  breakfast. 
Lamb  chops  are  as  nice  as  chicken  for  a  fricas- 
see. Boil  them  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them.  When  done,  add  to  the  liquor  butter,  and 
a  little  thickening  made  of  flour.  Cook  all  to- 
gether a  few  minutes ;  then  dish  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  it. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BKEAKFASTS.      121 

BREAKFAST  No.  33. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Sliced  Cold  Mutton  or  Lamb.         Baked  Potatoes. 


Bread  and  Butter. 
Buckwheat  Cakes.  Coffee. 

COLD  MUTTON  OR  LAMB, 
With  these  accompaniments,  makes  a  nice  winter 
breakfast.  For  summer,  a  more  appropriate  cake 
than  buckwheat  can  be  substituted.  Indian  cakes 
are  welcome  companions  with  cold  roast  lamb  at 
breakfast. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Four  cups  of  warm  water. 

Nearly  three  cupfuls  of  buckwheat  meal. 

Nearly  a  cup  of  Indian  meal. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  nice  molasses. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

Scald  the  Indian  meal  with  only  water  enough 
to   swell  it.     When  cool,  add  this  to  the  buck- 


122  WHAT   TO   GET   FOE   BEEAKFAST. 

wheat,  and  with  the  measure  of  warm  water,  beat 
till  all  are  well  mixed.  To  this,  add  the  salt,  mo- 
lasses and  yeast,  which  should  be  dissolved  in  a 
little  water.  Now  beat  all  five  or  six  minutes,  and 
set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  over  night.  A  pitcher, 
is  very  convenient  to  fry  buckwheats  from,  which 
should  be  covered  with  a  thick  cloth,  over  night. 

In  the  morning  beat  your  batter  well  and  set  it 
near  the  fire  for  a  second  rising.  Buckwheats  are 
not  in  perfection  without  soda,  which  should  be 
added  whether  the  cakes  are  sour  or  not,  but  not 
till  just  before  they  are  baked.  When  breakfast  is 
on  the  table,  dissolve  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  a  little  warm  water,  stir  it  well  into  the  batter, 
and  bake.  Serve  them  as  quick  as  possible  from 
the  griddle. 

Indian  meal  makes  buckwheats  much  more  ten- 
der than  flour ;  they  are  much  better  made  with 
milk  than  water. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS.      123 


BREAKFAST  No.  34. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 
Egged  Mutton  Hash.  Huckleberry  Cake. 


Coffee,  or  Tea.  Ripe  Fruit. 

This  is  a  delicious  as  well  as  nutritious  summer 
breakfast.  To  tliree  cupfuls  of  finely  chopped 
mutton  or  lamb,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water.  Break  into  it  three  eggs  and  stir  all  to- 
gether. When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  cooked, 
add  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and  thoroughly  mix. 
Serve  quickly. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  10.) 

Obs. — Dressed  lettuce  is  a  favorite  companion 
for  any  dish  of  mutton. 


124  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  35. 


Whole  Wheat. 


Minced  Mutton,  Eggs  and  Rice. 


Huckleberry  Cake.  Cocoa  or  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

Minced  mutton,  eggs  and  rice,  make  a  palatable 
summer  breakfast.  Chop  remnants  of  mutton  fine, 
add  a  very  little  hot  water.  Have  nearly  the 
same  quantity  of  rice,  allowing  one  egg  to  each 
cupful  of  minced  mutton.  Mix  all  together,  and 
heat  till  the  eggs  are  cooked,  when  stir  in  a  piece 
of  butter,  enough  for  the  quantity.  Serve 
quickly. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  BREAKFASTS.      125 


BREAKFAST  No.  36. 

Oatmeal  Jelly. 
Steamed  Mutton  Mince.  Egg  Toast. 


Cocoa  or  Tea.  Ripe  Fruit. 

OATMEAL  JELLY. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  nice  oatmeal  in  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  water  over  nio^ht.  In  the  morninof  strain 
off  the  liquid  through  a  sieve  and  boil  it  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  it  into  the  moulds,  set  it  in  a  cool 
closet,  and  in  twenty  minutes  it  will  jelly  and  be 
sufficiently  warm  to  eat.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  sweetened  fruit  juice. 

STEAMED   MUTTON   MINCE. 

Take  raw,  fresh,  and  lean  mutton  or  lamb.  Ee- 
move  the  flesh  from  the  bone.  Chop  the  lean  very 
fine.  Flavor  with  salt,  pepper,  or  a  green  bay 
leaf.  Steam  the  mince  half  an  hour  in  a  farina 
boiler,  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water.  When  done, 
add  a  small  bit  of  butter.  Serve  hot.  This  is  an 
appetizing  and  nutritious  breakfast  for  an  invalid. 


SECTION  yn. 

VEAL    BREAKFASTS. 


VEAL   BREAKFASTS.  129 


vn. 

VEAL. 

The  Bible  establishes  the  eating  of  veal.  "  And 
bring  hither  the  fatted  calf  and  kill  it." 

"  And  Abraham  ran  into  the  herd,  and  fetched  a 
calf  tender  and  good,  and  gave  it  unto  a  young 
man,  and  he  hasted  to  dress  it." 

Beware  of  eating  too  young  veal.  Nowadays 
it  is  sent  to  the  market  very  young,  for  the  reason 
that  it  is  not  so  remunerative  as  the  cow's  milk. 
'Tis  said  many  diseases,  especially  in  children, 
come  from  eating  too  young  veal.  In  earlier  times 
it  was  thought  that  veal  was  not  eatable  before  it 
was  four  or  five  weeks  old.  It  is  very  easy  to 
know  when  it  is  too  young,  as  the  bones  are  very 
tender  and  like  nerves. 


130  WHAT   TO    GET   FOE   BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  37. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Veal  Fricassee.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam).  Caf^  au  lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

VEAL  FRICASSEE. 

Cut  veal  into  pieces  of  two  inches,  and  stew  till 
tender  as  chicken.  Do  not  use  more  water  than 
is  necessary  to  cover  it.  Just  before  dishing  for 
the  table,  add  a  smooth  thickening,  and  a  piece  of 
butter.  Stir  these  evenly  into  the  gravy,  and 
simmer  two  minutes  before  serving. 

CAFE  AU   LAIT. 

Americans  are  very  ambitious  of  French  names, 
and  cafe  au  lait  is  being  domesticated  in  their 
kitchens.  Its  French  name  sounds  new  to  many, 
yet  it  is  a  very  ancient  method  of  preparing  coffee. 
In  bygone  days  my  grandmother,  and  later  my 
mother,  when  there  was  milk  to  spare,  often  made 
our  coffee  half  milk,  which  the  French  call  cafe 
au  lait. 


VEAL   BREAKFASTS.  181 

To  half  a  coffee-pot  of  boiling  hot  (3offee,  add 
enough  hot  milk  to  iill  the  coffee-pot.  Do  not 
boil  the  milk,  it  will  give  it  an  unpleasant  flavor; 
only  heat  it  hot.     Dehcious  I 


BREAKFAST  No.  38, 


Oatmeal  Mush. 
Veal  Stew.  Corn  Meal  Sponge  Cake. 


Bread  and  Butter. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

VEAL  STEW. 

Cut  veal  in  small  pieces,  not  over  an  inch  square. 
Cover  with  cold  water.  See  that  the  water  is  kept 
at  the  same  level,  by  adding  hot  water  as  it  boils 
away.  Stew  till  tender.  Before  done,  have  ready 
potatoes  enough  for  the  quantity  of  veal,  peeled 
and  sliced.  Add  these  to  the  stew.  When  done, 
add  a  little  smooth  thickening,  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
let  all  come  to  a  boil.     Serve  hot. 


O 


132  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOE    BKEAKFAST. 

CORN   MEAL  SPONGE   CAKE,  NO.   2. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal. 

One  cup  of  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Three  eggs. 

One  spoonful  of  white  sugar. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  creamed  butter. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk. 


Add  soda,  cream-tartar,  and  salt  to  flour.  Beat 
the  eo:o:s  and  suo'ar  too^ether,  and  with  the  ci^eamed 
butter  stir  to  the  meal  and  flour.  Lastly,  add  the 
milk,  which  thoroughly  incorporate.  Bake  in 
Washington  pie  plates,  well  buttered.  Have  a 
moderately  quick  oven. 


VEAL    BREAKFASTS.  133 


BREAKFAST  No.  39. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Veal  Hash.  Poached  Eggs. 

Buttered  Toast. 

Coffee.  Sliced  Oranges. 

This  simple  breakfast  is  very  appetizing  when 
well  gotten.  Chop  cold  veal  very  fine ;  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  with  only  gravy  enough  to  moisten 
it.  If  you  have  no  gravy,  use  a  little  water  in- 
stead, and  add  a  bit  of  butter  before  dishino-  it. 
Simmer  till  hot.  It  should  be  dry  enough  to  heap 
into  shape  on  the  platter.  Prepare  your  eggs  and 
toast  as  in  breakfast  No.  1. 

SLICED  ORANGES. 
Persons  of  refined  sensibilities  are  disturbed  by 
the  derangement  of  orange-peel  at  the  breakfast- 
table.  This  may  be  avoided  by  serving  them 
sliced  and  sugared.  Slice  peeled  oranges.  Fill  a 
dish  with  alternate  slices  of  oran2:e  and  suo;ar. 


134  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  40. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Scalloped  Veal.  Boiled  Eggs. 


Cream  Toast. 
Coffee.  Bananas. 

If  any  breakfast  will  develop  your  capabilities 
it  is  No.  40.  Should  you  succeed  with  this,  you 
can  have  faith  in  your  abilities  hereafter. 

SCALLOPED  VEAL. 

Many  think  this  the  best  way  to  serve  fragments 
of  veal.  Chop  cold  roast  or  stewed  veal  very 
fine.  Butter  a  round,  deep,  baking-tin.  Put  a 
layer  of  veal  in  the  bottom,  next  a  layer  of  pow- 
dered crackers  or  dry  bread.  Alternate  these 
until  the  pan  is  full,  having  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs 
on  the  top.  Moisten  each  layer  with  a  little  of 
the  gravy,  if  any  remains  from  the  roast  veal, 
otherwise  strew  tiny  bits  of  butter  on  each  layer 
of  veal,  and  moisten  with  water.  Cover  with  a 
tin  plate.  If  small,  bake  nearly  half  an  hour,  if 
large,  three-quarters.     Do  not  get  it  so  moist  that 


VEAL    BREAKFASTS.  135 


it  will  not  retain  its  form,  when  inverted  on  a 
platter.     The  meat  and  cracker  can  be  prepared 


over  night. 


CREAM  TOAST. 
Toast  bread  to  a  golden  brown.  Scald  your 
milk  in  a  farina  boiler.  When  scalding  hot,  thicken 
it  with  a  very  little  corn  starch  or  flour  dissolved 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Do  not  make  starch 
of  it.  I  have  eaten  it  so  thick  with  flour  that  it 
tasted  like  starch.  Be  sure  your  milk  is  scalding 
hot,  when  you  add  your  thickening,  which  pour 
into  the  middle  of  the  milk,  stirring  it  gently  till 
all  is  thickened.  After  simmering  till  there  is  no 
raw  taste  of  the  flour,  add  a  little  butter  and  stir  it 
through  the  milk.  Have  your  toast  ready.  Lay 
a  few  slices  on  a  deep  dish,  pour  over  them  some 
of  the  hot  cream,  then  lay  on  a  few  more  slices 
and  pour  over  again.  Lift  the  lower  slices,  one  by 
one,  that  the  creamy  mixture  may  run  between. 
Reserve  a  surplus  to  pour  over  the  whole.  Serve 
as  soon  as  finished. 


136      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  41. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 


Oven-broiled  Veal  Cutlets.        Baked  Potatoes. 


Corn  Meal  Raised  Muffins. 
Water-Cress  Salad.  Coffee. 

OVEN-BROILED  VEAL  CUTLETS. 
Veal  steaks  can  be  broiled  in  the  oven  with  bet- 
ter effect  than  over  the  fire.  The  oven  should  be 
as  hot  as  for  baking  meat,  otherwise  you  will  dry 
and  spoil  them.  When  oven-broiled,  they  get 
cooked  more  thoroughly,  and  few  people  are  fond 
of  rare  veal.  Lay  the  steaks  in  the  bake-pan,  using 
a  very  little  of  the  fat,  only  enough  to  keep  them 
from  sticking  and  scorching.  Fit  a  tin  plate  closely 
over  them,  to  keep  them  steaming  while  baking. 
When  done,  if  there  is  any  fat,  drain  it  from  them. 
Season  with  salt  and  butter,  the  same  as  for  other 
broiled  steaks. 

CORN-MEAL  RAISED   MUFFINS. 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  or  warm  water. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
One  cupful  of  flour. 
One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 


VEAL    BKEAKFASTS.  137 

Add  Indian  meal  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
Else  over  night.  In  the  morning,  when  ready  to 
bake,  add  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  w^ater,  and  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  mix  throughout  the  batter.  Bake 
in  muffin-tins.  Yeast  muffins  have  the  advantage 
of  soda  muffins,  as  they  are  not  heavy  when  cold, 
but  palatable. 

WATER-CRESS  SALAD. 
Like  the  tomato,  this  vegetable  possesses  the 
double  quality  of  food  and  medicine.  "  According 
to  analysis  by  M.  Chatin,  Director  of  the  School  of 
Pharmacy,  Paris,  water-cress  contains  iron,  iodine, 
phosphates,  and  other  salts.  As  a  medicine,  it  has 
been  vaunted  for  its  efficacy  in  all  cases  of  weak 
digestion,  and  has  been  prescribed  for  scrofula  and 
phthisis.  For  food,  it  ought  to  be  used  in  its 
green  or  uncooked  state,  in  the  form  of  salad  or 
without  any  seasoning." 


138  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.   42. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Egged  Veal  Hash.  Creamed  Potatoes, 


Sponge  Corn  Cake  Muffins. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

EGGED  VEAL  HASH. 

Chop  fine  remnants  of  cold  roast  veal.  Moisten 
with  the  gravy  or  water.  When  hot,  break  into 
it  three  or  four  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  of 
veal.  When  the  eggs  are  cooked,  stir  into  it  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  serve  quickly.  If  to  your 
taste,  shake  in  a  little  parsley.  Should  you  lack 
quantity,  half  a  cup  of  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  are 
no  disadvantage. 

CREAMED   POTATOES. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  season  with  salt. 
Add  cream,  and  heat  them  in  a  double  boiler.  Do 
not  break  or  stir  them. 

SPONGE  CORN   CAKE   MUFFINS. 
The   same  receipt  as  for  sponge  corn  cake  in 
Breakfast  No.  9. 


VEAL    BREAKFASTS.  139 

BREAKFAST  No.  43. 

Cracked  Wheat  and  Cream. 


Sweetbread  Fricassee.     Toasted  Oatmeal  Crackers, 


Or,  "Butter"  Crackers. 
Cocoa  or  Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

SWEETBREAD  FRICASSEE. 
Carefully  wash  and  remove  all  the  thin  skin  in 
which  the  sweetbreads  are  wrapped,  drawhig  oat  that 
between  the  divisions.  Put  them  into  enous^h  cold 
water  to  cover  them,  and  set  over  the  fire.  When 
they  have  boiled  fifteen  minutes,  take  out  and  lay 
them  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes.  This  Avill  make 
them  firm  and  white.  Keep  the  water  they  Avere 
boiled  in  hot,  and  after  laying  ten  minutes  in  cold 
water,  put  them  back  again  into  the  hot  water,  and 
let  them  come  to  a  boil.  For  two  or  three  sweet- 
breads, allow  a  cupful  of  gravy.  Cream  a  heap- 
ing dessert-spoonful  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch.  Add  this  to  the  gravy 
and  simmer  a  minute.  Dish  the  sweetbreads,  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  them. 


140  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKTAST. 

TOASTED   CRACKERS. 

Toast  crackers  a  nice  brown.  Dip  them  quickly 
into  hot  water ;  don't  let  them  remain  a  moment. 
Now  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  pour  to  them  a  little 
of  the  sweetbread  gravy. 


BREAKFAST  No.  44. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Fricassee  of  Tripe.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Cold  Bread.  Graham  Meal  Griddles. 


Coffee. 


This   breakfast  was   overlooked.      It  properly 


belongs  in  the  beef  division. 


FRICASSEE  OF  TRIPE. 

Cut  tripe  into  pieces  about  two  inches  square. 
Put  into  a  spider  with  water  enough  to  make  a 
gravy.  When  hot,  add  butter  and  a  little  thicken- 
ing, mixed  smoothly.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil. 
Dish  the  tripe,  and  serve  with  the  gravy  poured 
over  it. 


^ 


VEAL    BREAKFASTS.  141 

GRAHAM   MEAL  GRIDDLES. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk. 
Two  caps  of  Graham  flour. 
One  cup  of  white  flour. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Two  spoonfuls  of  nice  molasses. 
Half  a  cake  of  compressed, 
Or,  half  a  cup  of  fluid  yeast. 

Stir  the  milk  to  the  Graham  and  flour.  Add 
salt,  molasses,  and  yeast.  Beat  all  together,  and 
rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning 
beat  well  and  set  near  the  fire  for  a  second  rising. 
When  everything  is  ready  for  breakfast,  dissolve 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  stir  into  it.  Bake 
them  on  a  griddle  greased  only  enough  to  keep 
them  from  sticking.  Bake  both  sides  a  nice  brown. 
Do  not  turn  them  twice.  Serve  only  a  few  at  a 
time. 

These  are  much  more  nourishing  and  wholesome 
than  any  buckwheat  griddles.  Those  who  indulge 
in  buckwheat  will  be  wise  to  substitute  Graham. 


SBCTION^  VIII. 

DOMESTIC  FOWL  BREAKFASTS. 


DOMESTIC   FOWL    BREAKFASTS.  145 


VIII. 

FOWL. 

The  Bible  has  given  no  general  catalogue  of  the 
birds  allowed  for  man's  food,  but  has  catalogued 
those  disallowed,  which  are  birds  of  prey  and 
scavengers  of  oifal  and  carrion.  Our  domestic 
fowl  are  healthy,  when  properly  cared  for,  and  their 
meat  sound  and  wholesome. 


BREAKFAST  No.  45. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Broiled  Chicken.  Strawberry  Short  Cake. 


Cold  Bread.  Coffee. 

Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   CHICKEN. 

Chicken  for  broiling  should  be  split  open  at  the 
back,  washed,  wiped  dry,  the  breast  bone  flattened 
with  a  mallet,  and  the  wings  twisted  back  that  the 
breast  may  show ;  beside,  a  chicken  looks  very 
badly  with  the  bones  and  wings  sticking  out. 
Never  broil  a  fowl  that  is  tough.       It  would  be 


146  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR   BREAKFAST. 

impossible  to  make  it  eatable  by  broiling ;  and  if 
sure  that  it  is  tender,  you  may  make  it  more  so 
by  lirst  steaming  it  twenty  minutes.  From  the 
steamer  transfer  it  to  the  gridiron,  inside  down. 
Turn  it  several  times.  When  broiled  a  nice 
brown,  season  with  butter  and  salt.  Before 
steamers  were  used,  I  have  parboiled  a  fowl  pre- 
vious to  broiling ;  but  this  process  robs  it  of  its 
juiciness.  When  steamed,  it  retains  its  juice,  and 
cooks  those  parts  tender  which,  if  only  broiled, 
would  be  so  scorched  that  they  could  not  be 
eaten. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  quart  of  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  cup  of  creamed  butter. 

One  pint  of  rich  sweet  milk. 

One  quart  of  strawberries. 

Incorporate  soda,  cream-tartar,  and  salt  well 
into  the  dry  flour.  W^ork  the  creamed  butter  into 
the  prepared  flour,  fill  fine  and  yellow.  Pour  the 
milk  to  this  mixture,  and  mould  to  a  delicate 
dough,  which  divide  into  three  parts.     Eoll  each 


DOMESTIC   FOWL   BREAKFASTS.  147 


part  quickly  half  an  inch  thick.     Fit  each  to  a 
Washington-^pie  plate  and  bake  at  once. 

Meantime,  mash  the  strawberries,  addino-  suo-ar 
to  your  taste.  Keep  them  in  a  cold  place  till  the 
cakes  are  ready.  When  the  cakes  are  done,  re- 
verse the  tin  and  lay  the  cake  upon  it.  Take  a 
thin  sharp  knife,  dip  it  into  hot  water,  then  wipe 
it  dry,  and  equally  split  the  cakes.  Do  not  split 
them  with  a  cold  knife,  as  it  flattens  the  bread. 
Butter  each  half ;  lay  one  third  of  the  jam  on  each 
under  crust  and  cover  with  the  upper  crust.  Serve 
quickly. 


BREAKFAST  No.  46, 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Oven-broiled  Chicken.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Raised  Waffles.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

Do  not  let  your  prejudice  in  favor  of  gridiron 
broiling  prevent  you  from  trying  this  labor-saving 
expedient.  Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  gridiron 
broiling.  Place  the  chicken,  skin  side  up,  in  a 
dripping-pan,  pressed  flat  and  close  to  the  pan  as 


148  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

possible.  The  pan  must  be  dry,  so  that  the  chicken 
will  brown  on  the  bottom.  The  secret  of  success 
is  to  have  the  oven  just  as  hot  as  the  chicken  will 
bear  without  burning.  It  would  not  be  like  broil- 
ing, if  done  in  a  slow  oven.  When  done,  season 
with  salt  and  butter. 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  21.) 


BREAKFAST  No.  47. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Chicken  Fricassee.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Raised  Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam). 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

This  was  a  favorite  breakfast  of  my  mother's, 
and  I  well  know  its  merits.  For  breakfast, 
the  chicken  should  be  boiled  the  day  previous, 
unless  you  are  a  very  early  riser.  The  chicken 
need  not  be  as  tender  as  for  broiling.  When 
washed  and  dissected,  put  into  a  stew-pan  and 
barely  cover  with  warm  water.  Very  cold  water 
draws  the  juice  out.  Cover  and  stew  slowly  till 
tender,  but  not  so  much  as  to  drop  in  pieces. 


DOMESTIC   FOWL    BREAKFASTS.  149 

If  boiled  the  day  previous,  heat  the  liquor  with 
the  chicken  in  the  morning.  When  hot,  add 
butter  and  a  very  little  smooth  thickening.  If  the 
chickens  are  very  fat,  they  will  not  need  the  ad- 
dition of  butter.  After  adding  the  thickening, 
stew  gently  seven  or  eight  minutes.  The  addition 
of  parsley,  cut  fine,  is  considered  an  improvement 
by  some.     Serve  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it. 


BREAKFAST  No.  48. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Cold  Chicken  warmed  over.       Baked  Potatoes. 


Yeast  Muffins.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

This  is  a  convenient  way  to  dispose  of  the  rem- 
nants of  cold  roast  chicken.  Prepare  the  chicken, 
and  simply  heat  it  in  the  remaining  gravy.  If  no 
gravy,  heat  in  a  little  water,  and  add  butter  and  a 
smooth  thickening.     Use  stuffing,  if  agreeable. 

YEAST  MUFFINS. 

Use  the  same  mixture  as  for  raised  waffles,  in 
Breakfast  No.  21.     Bake  in  muffin-tins.     In  cold 


150  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

weather  this  mixture  may  be  kept  for  one  or  two 
mornings,  and  is  thought  by  some  an  improvement. 
It  is  certainly  a  convenience  to  have  it  on  hand  for 
both  waffles  and  muffins. 


BREAKFAST  No.  49. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Minced  Chicken.  Boiled  Eggs. 


Twin  Biscuit. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

MINCED  CHICKEN. 

Chop  remnants  of  chicken  very  fine.  Heat  it 
with  a  little  of  the  gravy.  If  no  gravy,  moisten 
it  with  water,  and  when  hot,  add  a  little  butter. 
It  should  not  be  too  dry  or  too  moist.  Serve  on 
a  hot  platter. 

TWIN   BISCUIT. 

Make  a  short  cake,  per  receipt  in  Breakfast 
No.  12.  Koll  the  dough  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  into  rounds  with  your  biscuit-cutter. 
Lay  them  one  deep  on  your  baking-pan,  and  just 
polish  the  top  of  each  with  butter ;  then  lay  a  bis- 


DOMESTIC    FOWL    BKEAKFASTS.  151 


cuit  on  each  of  these.  By  this  process  they  are 
easily  divided.  Butter  them  when  eaten.  Serve 
hot. 


BREAKFAST  No.  50. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Minced  Chicken.  Eggs  on  Toast. 


Cold  Bread. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

This  delicate  and  nutritious  breakfast  is  nice  for 
sick  or  well.  Prepare  mince  as  in  Breakfast 
No.  49. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST. 
Break  each  egg  separately  into  hot  water  in  a 
flat  pan.  Cook  them  till  the  white  concretes. 
Have  toast  a  nice  brown,  and  barely  dip  it  into 
hot  water  for  an  instant.  Do  not  soak  it.  Melt 
your  butter  by  putting  it  into  boiling  water.  Skim 
a  little  butter  from  the  top  of  the  water  to  the 
toast.     Serve  eggs  on  toast. 


152  WHAT    TO    GET    FOE    BEEAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  51. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 


Chicken  a  la  Cunard  Steamer. 


Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam).  Baked  Potatoes. 


Coffee.  Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CUNARD  STEAMER. 
This  is  a  nice  bill  of  fare  for  a  winter  breakfast. 
The  joints  should  be  separated,  washed  in  cold 
water,  and  boiled  tender  the  day  previous.  When 
tender,  remove  from  the  liquor  and  drain  dry. 
Preserve  the  liquor.  In  the  morning,  roll  each 
piece  in  Qgg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  them  a 
nice  brown  in  butter  or  chicken  fat,  skimmed  from 
top  of  the  liquor.  When  fried  a  nice  brown  lay 
on  a  platter,  and  keep  hot.  Now  put  a  cup  of 
milk,  half  a  cup  of  the  liquor  and  fat  into  the 
frying-pan.  When  hot,  add  a  little  smooth  thick- 
ening, stirring  it  constantly.  Add  butter  if  neces- 
sary.    Pour  this  over  the  chicken  and  serve. 


DOMESTIC    FOWL    BREAKFASTS.  153 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  boiled  rice. 

Two  cups  of  warm,  sweet  milk. 

Two  or  three  eggs. 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

Half  a  pint  of  flour. 

Separate  the  grains  of  rice  and  mix  with  the 
milk,  to  which,  if  skimmed,  add  a  tabl.espoonful  of 
melted  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  sepa- 
rately, then  together,  which  add  to  the  mixture. 
Mix  soda  and  cream-tartar  with  the  flour  and  stir 
to  the  mixture.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  flour 
till  the  right  consistency.  Wipe  the  griddle  each 
time  you  grease  it  with  a  dry  cloth.  These 
cakes  require  a  longer  baking  than  batter,  and 
should  be  baked  of  a  smaller  size.  When  served, 
do  not  pile  them  one  upon  the  other,  but  spread 
them  over  the  plate.  Serve  them  hot,  and  of  a 
beautiful  brown. 


154  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   52. 


Broiled  Prairie  Chicl<ens. 
Saratoga  Potatoes.  Fried  Hasty  Pudding- 


Currant  Jelly.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   PRAIRIE   CHICKENS. 

These  are  usually  tough.  To  make  them  tender, 
steam  them  and  proceed  as  for  broiled  chicken  in 
Breakfast  No.  45. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  should  be  nice  and  sliced  with  a 
potato-cutter.  Two  or  three  good  sized  potatoes, 
nicely  peeled  and  cut  ''  thin  as  a  wafer  "  will  make 
a  large  sized  dish  full.  When  sliced,  put  them 
into  icy  cold  water  for  a  few  moments  to  crisp 
them,  then  between  two  cloths  to  dry  them.  Use 
a  deep  kettle,  as  the  fat  is  in  danger  of  spattering 
over  when  the  potatoes  are  put  into  it.  A  Scotch 
kettle  is  best,  and  every  housekeeper  should  have 
one  for  frying.  Have  the  fat  hot,  or  the  potatoes 
will  soak  fat.     There  should  bo  as  much  drippings 


DOMESTIC    FOWL    BREAKFASTS.  155 

for  frying  them  us  for  doughnuts.  When  a  nice 
brown,  remove  them  from  the  fiit  with  a  skimmer 
to  a  dry  colander,  wliich  should  be  set  in  a  plate 
in  an  open  oven.  Dredge  a  little  salt  over  them. 
Do  not  cover  the  dish  you  serve  them  in  as  it 
makes  them  soaked  and  moist.  They  should  be 
crisp. 


BREAKFAST  No.  53. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Stewed  Chicken.  Macaroni. 


Raised  Waffles.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

STEWED  CHICKEN. 
Cut  the  chicken  into  pieces,  wash  it  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
When  thoroughly  done,  transfer  it  to  a  platter, 
arranging  the  pieces  tastefully.  Stir  a  little  smooth 
thickening  to  the  liquor.  Have  ready  some  maca- 
roni, which  has  been  boiled  in  a  little  salted  water, 
put  it  into  the  gravy  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Pour  this  over  the  chicken  and  serve. 


156  ^VHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  54. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Turkey  Hash.        Hasty  Pudding  Fried  in  Crumbs. 


Cranberry  Sauce.  Coffee. 


Bread*-crumb  Griddles. 


TURKEY  HASH. 
Chop  fine  the  meat  from  cold  roast  turkey. 
Add  enough  gravy  to  moisten  it.  If  you  have 
none  use  a  little  butter  instead.  Heat  hot,  but  do 
not  boil  it.  Serve  on  slices  of  fried  hasty 
pudding. 

HASTY  PUDDING   FRIED  IN   CRUMBS. 

One  should  try  this  superior  Avay  of  frying  hasty 
pudding.  Dip  each  slice  into  beaten  egg  and 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  a  nice  brown,  on 
the  griddle.  For  hasty  pudding,  see  receipt  in 
Breakfast  No.  3. 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE. 
Pour  boiling  hot  water  on  the  cranberries,  and 
you  can  easily  separate  the  good  from  the  bad. 


DOMESTIC   FOAVL   BREAKFASTS.  157 

Stew  them  in  a  very  little  water  till  soft.  Sweeten 
to  taste.  These  should  be  cooked  the  day  before 
wanted. 

BREAD-CRUMB   GRIDDLES. 

Two  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  spoonful  of  creamed  butter. 

Two  eggs. 

One  cup  of  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Warm  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  bread 
crumbs.  Let  this  stand  fifteen  minutes,  when 
thoroughly  beat  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add 
the  salt  and  creamed  butter,  then  gradually  the 
flour,  with  which  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  have 
been  mixed.  If  not  quite  stifi"  enough  cautiously 
add  a  little  more  flour.  Lastly,  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

These  cakes  require  a  longer  baking  than  batter 
cakes,  as  the}^  are  tender  and  more  easily  broken. 
When  served,  do  not  pile  one  over  the  other,  but 
spread  over  the  plate. 


158      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKTAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  55. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Warmed-over  Turkey.        Warmed-over  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam).  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

WARMED-OVER  TURKEY. 

This  is  simply  the  remnants  of  cold  turkey, 
heated  in  the  remaining  gravy.  The  stuffing  can 
be  added  if  agreeable. 

"cold   potatoes  Y/ARMED   OVER." 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices  thick  enough 
not  to  break  easily.  Put  a  little  of  the  turkey 
gravy  into  a  fry  pan,  and  fry  each  side  a  nice 
brown.  If  you  do  not  like  them  browned,  simply 
heat  them. 


DOMESTIC   FOWL   BREAKFASTS.  159 


BREAKFAST  No.  56. 

Broiled  Quails. 

Buttered  Toast.  Currant  Jelly. 

Coffee  or  Tea.  Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED  QUAILS. 
Broiled  quail  are  esteemed  a  dainty.  They  are 
a  very  savory  and  nourishing  breakfast  fare. 
Split  them  at  the  back,  wash  and  lay  them  in 
cold  water  twenty  minutes  to  bleach  them.  Wipe 
them  dry  and  broil  over  a  bright  fire.  Keep  the 
bone  side  to  the  fire  till  hot  throughout,  only  turn- 
ino-  a  minute  at  a  time  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
Baste  them  with  butter.  Broil  a  nice  yellow 
brown  all  over.  Serve  them  on  buttered  toast, 
with  a  little  currant  jelly  on  top  of  each  quail. 


160      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BEEAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  57. 

Oven-broiled  Quails. 
Raised  Waffles.  Grape  Jelly. 


Cocoa  or  Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

OVEN-BROILED  QUAILS. 

Try  ttiis  labor-saving  innovation.  For  oven- 
broiling  the  same  principles  should  be  observed  as 
for  gridiron  broiling, — the  baking  pan  must  be 
kept  very  hot  while  the  meat  is  broiling.  Split 
the  quails  at  the  back.  AVhen  washed,  wipe  dry, 
and  lay  them  as  flat  as  possible,  inside  down,  on 
the  pan.  Have  the  pan  dry,  that  they  may  broil 
on  the  bottom,  not  steam.  Have  the  oven  quick, 
but  not  hot  enough  to  burn.  Broil  till  an  even 
yellow  brown.  Serve  hot,  on  slices  of  buttered 
toast,  with  grape  or  cranberry  jelly. 


DOMESTIC    FOWL    BREAKFASTS.  161 

BREAKFAST  No.  58. 

Broiled  Pigeons. 


Raised  Muffins.  Cranberry  Jelly. 


Coffee  or  Cocoa.  Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED  PIGEONS. 

Have  tender  pigeons.  Split  them  at  the  back, 
and  flatten  them  gently  with  a  mallet,  and  broil 
over  a  quick  fire.  When  cooked,  serve  with  a 
generous  quantity  of  butter.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Wash  and  carefully  pick  over  the  fruit.  Boil  in 
just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Then  strain 
them  throuo'h  a  hair  sieve,  and  sweeten  with  fine 
sugar  to  your  taste.  Boil  this  gently  and  with 
care  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Mould  in  cups  or 
tumblers.  This  receipt  is  only  intended  for  im- 
mediate use. 

For  raised  muffins,  see  Yeast  Muffins. 


162  WHAT    TO    GET    FOE    BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  59. 

Broiled  Squabs. 


Buttered  Toast.  Currant  Jelly. 


Coffee  or  Tea.  Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   SQUABS. 

Broiled  squabs  are  an  esteemed  delicacy,  and 
are  in  great  request  in  the  convalescent's  room. 
Wash  them,  and  carefully  wipe  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Split  them  down  the  back  and  broil  in  a 
wire  gridiron  like  chickens.  Season  with  salt  and 
butter  when  you  dish  them. 

BUTTERED   TOAST. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  5. ) 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  mash 
it  with  a  ladle.  When  hot  squeeze  it  through  a 
coarse  linen  bag.  Allow  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  five  minutes.  Have 
the  sugar  heated,  and  while  boiling  add  the  hot 
sugar;  stir  it  well,  and  boil  another  five  "minutes. 
Remove  and  put  into  glasses. 


SECTIO]Sr  IX. 

FISH    BREAKFASTS. 


FISH    BKEAKTASTS.  165 


IX. 

CLARIFIED   DPJPPIISrGS. 

Claeify  means  to  make  pure  or  clear.  The  care 
of  drippings  is  a  very  important  item  in  a  family, 
and  every  housekeeper  should  know  what  is  done 
with  them.  An  inexperienced  cook  will  not  be 
acquainted  with  the  various  ways  of  preventing 
them  from  being  wasted,  and  if  experienced  may 
not  be  inclined  to  take  the  trouble  unless  she  is 
looked  after.  Then  there  are  families  who  look 
upon  drippings  as  unfit  to  use,  and  consign  them 
to  the  waste  fat.  When  properly  taken  care  of, 
they  are  more  wholesome  than  lard  for  frying. 
Many  persons  quite  unable  to  eat  articles  of  food 
fried  in  lard  find  no  inconvenience  from  those 
fried  in  drippings,  and  they  are  more  convenient 
than  lard  for  frying  as  they  do  not  splutter  and 
spatter  over  the  frying-pan. 

To  clarify  your  drippings  or  gravy,  pour  them 
from  the  meat-pan  into  a  l:)owl,  instead  of  the  crock 
in  which  you  intend  to  keep  them.  Then  pour 
into  the  bowl  a  little  boiling  water.     Stir  it,  and 


166  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

set  it  away  to  cool.  Next  day,  or  when  cold, 
remove  the  cake  from  the  bowl,  sci-ape  from  the 
bottom  of  it  the  impm'ities,  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  little  salt  and  boiling  water.  Let  it  set 
half  an  hour  over  a  moderate  hre  and  simmer. 
Do  not  hurry  it,  or  it  may  acquire  a  burnt  taste, 
which  you  cannot  get  rid  of,  and  its  pureness  is 
spoiled.  Skim  during  the  process.  When  cold, 
remove  from  the  water  and  dregs,  scraping  off 
whatever  adheres  to  it  that  looks  foreio-n.  Melt 
this  cake  again,  as  this  melting  sends  out  all  the 
water.  When  free  from  water  it  will  not  taint, 
neither  spatter,  and  will  keep  for  months  in  a  cold 
place.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  do  not  cover 
or  put  it  away  till  hard.  Keep  it  in  a  stone  crock, 
well  covered. 

Earthen  absorbs  fat,  and  it  becomes  tainted, 
smells  disagreeably,  affecting  the  flavor  of  newly- 
added  fats,  and  of  whatever  is  cooked  in  it.  How 
often  you  see  warmed-over  potatoes  spoiled  hy 
keeping  the  fat  in  earthen  which  is  soaked  with  it. 
No  matter  how  clean  your  earthen  vessel  is, — you 
cannot  scald  out  the  old  and  tainted  fat  it  has 
absorbed.  Beware  of  tainted  bowls,  they  are 
poisonous,  and  should  be  appropriated  to  the  dirt 
barrel.  Do  not  pour  fat  that  has  been  used  for 
frying  to  the  crock  that  keeps  the  cakes,  but  have 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  167 

one  for  each.  Alw.nys  let  fat  that  has  been  used 
pass  through  a  fine  strainer  when  you  return  it, 
else  the  sediment  will  spoil  the  next  frying. 

CLARIFIED   BEEF   SUET. 

Where  frying  is  very  popular,  drippings  do 
not  meet  the  demand,  whicli  makes  it  necessary 
to  buy  beef  suet.  This  also  needs  rendering,  to 
clear  it  from  skin  and  veins.  The  parts  around 
the  kidneys  are  best.  Cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  proceed  as  for  trying  lard.  Cool  in  small 
cakes. 

THE   PPvINCIPLES   OF   FRYING   FISH. 

Fried  fish  is  very  popular  and  often  very  con- 
venient, yet  very  badly  performed  by  many,  and 
has  more  failures  than  any  othar  cooking  ope- 
ration. 

Although  the  fishmonger  is  supposed  to  have  his 
fish  clean,  yet  a  clean  cook  will  always  rewash  it. 
When  washed,  wrap  them  in  a  clean  dry  cloth,  to 
make  them  perfectly  dry.  When  the  cloth  has 
absorbed  all  the  moisture,  thickly  dredge  the  fish 
with  flour,  fine  oatmeal,  or  fine  crumbs.  If  crumbs, 
they  must  be  fine,  or  herein  lies  a  failure.  Coarse 
crumbs  are  liable  to  drop  ofif,  and  take  with  them 


168       WHAT  TO  GET  FOE  BREAKFAST. 

the  fine  ones.  AYlien  salted  and  dredged,  lay  on 
a  platter  in  readiness  for  frying. 

Have  a  clear  and  brisk  fire.  Be  sure  that  your 
frying-pan  is  perfectly  clean.  In  frying  fish  be 
particular  not  to  use  drippings  that  are  not  fresh. 
They  will  ruin  the  fish  if  they  have  been  used  for 
amthing  else.  More  fat  is  required  for  frying 
fish  than  for  other  meats.  The  drippings  must 
literally  boil,  smoke,  and  appear  on  the  point  of 
burning  when  the  fish  is  put  into  it,  which  at  once 
hardens  the  surface  of  the  fish,  so  that  the  fat  can- 
not penetrate,  and  you  may  feel  assured  that  j^our 
fish  will  not  soak  fat,  neither  will  it  stick  to  the 
pan  or  break.  Many  suppose  if  fat  luib1)les  in  the 
pan  it  is  hot  enough  :  but  this  is  not  so,  and  those 
are  nearest  to  the  truth  who  do  not  drop  their  fish 
into  the  fat  until  it  smokes.  Fish  will  be  crisp 
and  of  a  o-olden  brown  when  the  fat  is  of  the  rio:ht 
temperature. 

Have  your  pan  sufiiciently  large  for  the  fish  to 
lay  fiat  on  it.  If  cutlets,  do  not  crowd  them.  Be 
careful  not  to  burn  fish  or  fat.  Lastly,  bear  in 
mind  that  if  fish  is  thrown  into  the  pan  with  un- 
melted  or  partly  heated  fat  it  will  be  spoiled,  and 
so  soaked  vdth  fat  that  it  will  be  unsafe  to  eat 
it,  for  it  will  surely  sicken  the  stomach.  If  you 
fail,  there  are  four  reasons  for  it.      Either  vou  did 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  169 

not  have  fat  enou2;li  or  it  was  not  hot  enouo^h,  or 
your  fish  not  wiped  dry  enough,  or  your  crumbs 
not  fine  enough.  Closely  observe  these  sugges- 
tions, and  failure  will  not  occur. 


BREAKFAST  No.  60. 

Crushed  Wheat. 
Broiled  Salmon  Steaks.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Parker  House  Biscuit.  Dressed  Cucumbers. 


Coffee  and  Fruit. 


Salmon  is  clad  in  the  livery  of  scales  and  fins 
which  the  law  of  the  great  naturalist  requires  to 
ensure  its  wholesomeness.  It  ranks  No.  1  among 
epicurean  delicacies,  and  is  accorded  a  place  of 
honor  on  every  table  in  the  land. 

BROILED  SALMON  STEAKS. 
It  is  a  very  nice  operation  to  broil  salmon  with- 
out burning,  and  none  but  the  skilful  should 
attempt  it.  Many  consequently  prefer  baking  or 
oven-broiling.  Be  sure  your  gridiron  is  clean  and 
hot.  Have  a  clear  but  not  too  hot  fire.  Broil  a 
light  brown.     Season  with  butter  and  salt. 


170  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAEXAST. 

CUCUMBERS 

Harmonize    with    salmon.       (For  particulars,   see 
Breaklast  Xo.  'J. ) 


BREAKFAST  No.   61. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Canned  Salmon  with  Cream  Sauce. 


Buttered  Toast.       Dressed  Lettuce  and  Celery, 


Coffee  and  Griddle  Cakes. 

CAXXED   SALMON  WITH   CREAM   SAUCE. 

Canned  Salmon  can  he  kept  in  the  house,  and 
in  case  of  emergency  a  fine  In-eakfast  can  be  })ro- 
duced  in  a  few  minutes.  It  should  be  heated, 
seasoned  to  taste,  placed  on  Vaitter  toast,  and  a 
cream  dressing  poured  over  it. 

For  drawn  butter  or  cream  dressing,  incorporate 
two  spoonfuls  of  butter  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
Hour.  Add  to  this  a  cupful  of  Ijoiling  water,  and 
buil  two  minutes,  stirring  continually. 

DRESSED   LETTUCE  AND   CELERY. 

Lettuce  and  celery  mixed  together  are  very  nice. 
Cut  both  verv  fine.     Dress  them  with  sus-ar  and 


FISH    BKEAKFASTS.  171 


lemon  juice,  diluted  with  a  little  water.  The 
acid  of  lemon  is  a  much  pleasanter  adjunct  than 
vinegar. 


BREAKFAST  No.  62. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Fried  Trout.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Soda  Muffins.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FRIED  TROUT. 
Trout  are  of  the  genus  of  salmon.  Small  trout 
are  best  fried.  They  should  be  washed,  wiped 
^^y^  egged,  rolled  in  salted  flour,  and  fried  in 
butter.  Serve  them  with  plain  melted  butter,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

SODA   MUFFINS. 
One  quart  of  flour. 
One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
A  heaping  dessert-spoonful  of  butter. 
Two  or  three  eo-o^s. 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  sour  milk. 


172  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BREAIvFAST. 

Sift  salt  and  soda  with  the  flour.  Cream  the 
butter.  Beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately, 
then  together.  Add  the  butter  to  the  middle  of 
the  flour,  then  the  eggs ;  lastly,  pour  in  the  milk, 
and  beat  all  to  a  light  batter.  Fill  muffin  or  cake- 
pans  nearly  two-thirds  full,  and  put  them  into  a 
quick  oven  instantaneously. 


BREAKFAST  No.  63. 


Cracked  Wheat. 

Fried  Smelts.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Breakfast  Twists.        Coffee  and  Griddle  Cakes. 

FRIED   SMELTS. 

Smelts  are  classed  by  naturalists  with  the  sal- 
mon family.  They  are  included  among  wholesome 
fish.  They  make  a  delicate  breakfast^  and  are 
called  ''  the  dainty  of  Boston." 

The  nicest  and  only  way  is  to  fry  them.  Open 
them  at  the  gills  and  press  out  the  insides.  Some 
cooks  do  not  remove  the  inside,  but  they  should, 
for  the  same  reason  done  to  other  fish.  '^Vash 
them  clean,  wipe  them  dry,  roll  them  in  meal  or 
egg-crumbs.     Have  3^our  fat  boiling  hot  when  the 


FISH    BKEAKFASTS.  173 

iish  are  put  into  it.  Do  not  sprinkle  them  with 
salt  until  they  are  nearly  done,  as  they  will  not 
brown  as  well  if  salted  at  the  first.  Do  not  crowd 
them,  or  they  will  not  be  crisp  and  brown ;  and 
unless  served  immediately  they  lose  their  crispness 
and  flavor.  Lay  them  on  a  cloth  when  evenly 
done,  for  the  fat  to  drain,  then  serve  quickly. 

BREAKFAST  TWISTS. 

For  breakfast  twists  prepare  your  dough  the 
same  as  for  biscuit  in  Breakfast  Xo.  2.  Cut  from 
the  dough  three  pieces  as  large  as  a  coffee-cup. 
Roll  each  piece  under  your  hand  on  a  floured 
board  to  tw^elve  inches  in  leno-th,  makin*?  it  smaller 
in  circumference  at  the  ends  than  in  the  middle. 
When  each  piece  is  rolled,  join  one  end  to  each  of 
the  other  two,  and  braid  them  loosely  together  the 
length  of  the  roll.  Press  the  ends  together  firmly, 
brush  them  over  with  milk,  and  let  them  rise 
twenty  minutes.  Set  them  in  a  quick  over,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes.  They  can  be  made  smaller 
if  desired. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES 

ither 
you  fancy. 


Select  either  of  the  foreo^oino:  o^riddle  cakes  that 


174  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BEEAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  64. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Broiled  Halibut.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  {Vight  as  a  foam).  Coffee. 


Watermelon. 

Halibut,  turbot,  flounders,  and  plaice  are  all  of 
the  family  of  flat  fish.  They  each  bear  the  char- 
acter of  great  excellence  as  food. 

HALIBUT  STEAKS. 

There  is  no  nicer  fish  for  breakfast  than  broiled 
halibut  steaks.  If  sprinkled  with  salt  an  hour 
before  being  cooked,  they  will  broil  without  break- 
ing. Have  them  dry,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 
With  like  eflfect,  they  can  be  oven-broiled.  When 
cooked,  season  with  butter  and  serve. 

WATEPx-MELON. 

The  melon,  like  other  cool  juicy  fruits  of  the 
hot  season,  is  for  use.  It  is  especially  valuable  at 
this  season  with  those  whose  diet  is  largely  meat. 


FISH    BEEAKFASTS.  175 

It  is  more  of  a  drink  than  food,  the  greater  part 
being  pure  water.  From  this  melon  you  get  a 
drink  entirely  free  from  adulteration. 


BREAKFAST  No.   65. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 
Halibut  a  la  Creme.  Breakfast  Puffs. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

HALIBUT  A  LA  CREME. 
Flake  the  remains  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  hali- 
but. Remove  all  the  skin  and  bones.  Scald  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  or  enough  for  the  quantity  of 
lish.  Mix  l)utter  the  size  of  an  egg  ^vith  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Stir  this  smoothly  into  the  hot 
milk  for  a  dressing.  Let  this  heat  till  it  thickens. 
Be  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Butter  an  earthen 
baking-dish.  Put  into  it  a  layer  of  fish,  then  of 
the  dressing,  and  alternate  till  all  is  used,  with  the 
dressing  on  the  top.  Sprinkle  sifted  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  28.) 


176  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  66. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Fried  Flounders.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Raised  Waffles.  Cucumbers, 


Coffee. 

FRIED   FLOUNDEPS. 

Flounders  are  a  delicious  fish,  and  when  fried 
in  perfection  are  not  to  be  disdained  even  bj  a 
bon  vivant.  They  should  be  fried  brown  in  a 
plenty  of  drippings,  and  if  the  fat  is  hot  enough 
they  will  absorb  nothing  at  all.  They  may  be 
fried  whole,  which  is  preferred  by  some,  or  they 
may  be  detached  from  the  bone  and  cut  in 
quarters. 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 
(SeeBreakfast  Xo.  21.) 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  177 


BREAKFAST  No.  67. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Broiled  Shad.  Saratoga  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  (light  as  a  foam).  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   SHAD. 

Shad  belong  to  the  scaly  family,  and  are  armed 
with  fins.  This  delicious  fish  is  undoubtedly  best 
broiled.  It  should  be  fresh  caught.  Wash, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  put  into  a  wire  gridiron. 
Set  over  a  clear  fire,  skin  side  down  first. 
When  beginning  to  cook  through,  turn  and  finish 
on  the  flesh  side.  Have  it  an  even,  nice  brown. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  and  butter  liberally. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  52.) 

BISCUIT,   LIGHT  AS  A  FOAM. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  3.) 


178  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   68. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Little  Perch  (fried).  Cream  Muffins. 


Saratoga  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FRIED   PERCH. 

Perch  is  a  fresh-water  fish,  abounding  in  rivers, 
lakes,  and  ponds.  They  are  clad  with  scales  and 
fins.  Clean  and  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth,  then 
roll  them  in  salted  meal.  Fry  them  in  a  plenty  of 
sweet  drippings.  Serve  them  quickly,  Avith  crisp 
parsley. 

CREAM   MUFFINS. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Three  or  four  eggs. 

Nearly  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  sweet  cream. 

Mix  salt,  soda,  and  cream-tartar  with  the  flour. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  then  together, 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  179 

and  pour  them  into  the  middle  of  the  flour. 
Lastly,  add  the  cream,  which  must  be  thick,  and 
real  cream.  Bake  in  muffin-pans.  Send  to  the 
table  the  moment  they  are  done. 


BREAKFAST  No.  69. 

Whole  Wheat  and  Milk. 
Turbot  a  la  Cream.  Bread  Muffins. 


Cocoa  or  Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

TURBOT  A  LA  CREME. 

This  is  usually  made  from  boiled  turbot,  which 
has  been  previously  served  for  dinner.  Remove 
all  skin  and  bones,  and  flake  it.  Scald  a  pint  of 
sweet  milk.  Mix  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Stir  this  smoothly  into  the 
hot  milk,  and  let  it  thicken.  Butter  a  fire-proof 
earthen  dish.  Put  into  it,  first,  a  layer  of  fish, 
then  of  dressing.  Continue  the  alternation  until 
all  the  fish  is  used,  with  dressing  last.  Sprinkle 
sifted  bread  crumbs  over  the  whole,  and  bake  half 
an  hour,  or  according  to  the  size.  Any  boiled 
fish  may  be  served  thus. 


180  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

BREAD   MUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  finely-grated  bread. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk. 

Three  eggs. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  cupful  of  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Pour  the  milk  to  the  bread  crumbs,  and  let  them 
soak  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time  beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  with  the  salt  stir  into 
the  mixture.  iMix  soda  and  cream-tartar  to  the 
flour  and  add.  If  not  thick  enough  for  a  muffin 
mixture  add  more  flour  cautiously.  Lastl}^  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to 
a  stifi"  froth.  Bake  in  muffin  or  pufi'-pans.  Fill 
them  a  little  more  than  half  full.  These  require  a 
lono[:er  bakins:  than  all  batter.  Have  them  a  nice 
brown,  and  send  to  the  table  while  hot. 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  181 

BREAKFAST  No.  70. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 


Broiled  Scrod.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Flannel  Cakes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   SCROD. 

Have  a  small  codfish  split  and  the  back-bone 
taken  out.  Wash  in  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry. 
Put  in  a  wire  broiler,  with  skin  side  down.  Set  it 
over  a  clear  fire,  and  when  beginning  to  cook 
through,  turn  and  broil  the  flesh  side.  Season 
with  butter  and  serve. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 
One  cup  of  corn  meal. 
Two  cups  of  flour. 
Two  cups  of  sweet  milk. 
One-third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

Add  salt,  and  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
add  one  egg,  well  beaten.  Thoroughly  beat  the 
whole  and  rise  half  an  hour.  Bake  in  Washinolon 
pie  plates. 


182  ^^^IAT  to  get  for  beeakfast. 


BREAKFAST  No.  71. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel.     Raised  Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam). 


Baked  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

Mackerel  has  a  smooth  skin,  covered  with  a 
multitude  of  small,  smooth  scales,  and  is  armed 
■with  fins,  which  class  it  with  wholesome  animals. 

BROILED   FRESH   MACKEREL. 

Clean  and  he  careful  to  remove  all  the  thin, 
black  skin  fi*om  the  inside.  Sprinkle  the  inside 
with  salt,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  you  use  it. 
Then  wash  off  the  salt  with  cold  water,  and  wipe 
dry.  Put  it  into  a  wire  broiler,  with  the  skin  side 
to  the  fii-e  first.  TThen  the  skin  is  well  heated 
and  begins  to  parch,  turn  it,  and  broil  the  inside 
to  a  delicate  brown.  Lay  on  a  hot  platter  when 
done,  butter  it.  and  serve  at  once. 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  183 


BREAKFAST  No.   72. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Broiled  Salt  Mackerel.     New-England  Johnny-Cake. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

BROILED   SALT  MACKEREL. 

When  cleaned,  freshen  them  in  at  least  a  gallon 
of  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  oif 
the  water,  drain,  and  soak  them  one  hour  in  milk 
enoug'h  to  cover  them.  Before  broiling,  drain 
them,  and  wipe  dry.  Put  them  into  a  wire  broiler 
and  proceed  as  for  fresh  mackerel  in  the  foregoing 
6reakfast.  Or,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  to  two  mackerel  allow  a  cupful  of  milk.  Bake 
in  the  milk.  Some  think  this  an  improvement  on 
fried  or  broiled  salt  mackerel. 

NEW-ENGLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sour  buttermilk. 
One  egg- 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


184  ^^TIAT    TO    GET    FOR    BEEAKFAST. 

Stir  enough  Indian  meal  into  the  buttermilk  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Add  the  salt  and  the  egg 
Tvell  beaten.  Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  warm  water, 
and  mix  through  the  batter.  Be  sure  to  have  it 
thin,  so  that  it  can  almost  run.  Bake  in  shallow 
pans.  If  it  is  not  light,  it  is  because  you  made  it 
too  thick  with  Indian  meal. 


BREAKFAST  No.  73. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 
Fried  Codfish  Steaks.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Indian  Sponge  Cake.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FRIED_  CODFISH  STEAKS. 

Cod,  haddock,  and  hake  are  related.  'Tis  said 
that  no  more  nourishing  fish  comes  to  the  market 
than  cod.  The  skin  of  the  cod  is  covered  with 
small,  soft  scales,  and  its  fins  are  of  a  large  size, 
which  are  its  s}Tnbol  of  wholesomeness.  Have 
you  ever  tried  codfish  steaks  for  breakfast  ?  Dredge 
them  in  corn  meal,  and  fvy  in  a  plentj^  of  hot  drip- 
pings, taking  care  that  they  have  time  enough  to 
thoroughly  cook  through  the  thickness.  They  are 
a  very  nice  breakfast. 


FISH    BEEAKTASTS.  185 


BREAKFAST  No.   74. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Fresh  Fish  Mince.  Squash  Biscuit. 


Coffee.  Crumb  Griddles. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FRESH  FISH  MINCE. 
The  boiled  fresh  fish  that  is  left  from  dinner 
makes  a  nice  mince  for  breakfast.  Eeject  the 
skin  and  bones  ;  shred  it  fine  or  coarse  with  a  fork, 
and  use  the  same  quantity  of  sliced  cold  potatoes. 
Moisten  it  with  gravy  or  water,  cover,  and  heat. 
When  done,  add  a  little  butter  and  serve. 

SQUASH   BISCUIT. 
(See  Breakfast  JiTo.  8. ) 

CRUMB  GRIDDLES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  54.) 


186  ^^TBAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST, 


BREAKFAST  No.  75. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Fricassee  of  Tongues  and  Sounds. 


Biscuit  {light  as  a  foam).  Baked  Potatoes. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

COD  TONGUES  AND  SOUNDS. 
Soak  them  in  warm  water  and  scrape  them  thor- 
oughly. This  should  be  done  the  night  previous 
to  breakfast.  In  the  morning  stew  them  ten  min- 
utes in  just  milk  and  water  enough  to  cover  them. 
When  about  ready,  incorporate  a  little  flour  with 
as  much  ])iitter  as  is  needed,  which  stir  into  the 
liquor,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  this  over 
the  tongues  and  sounds.  These  make  a  very 
acceptable  breakfast. 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  187 


BREAKFAST  No.  76. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Codfish  a  la  Shaker.  Sponge  Corn  Cake. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

CODFISH  A   LA  SHAKER. 

Shred  uncooked  salt  fish  m  pieces  about  an  inch 
in  size.  Put  them  into  a  tin  pan,  adding  hot  water 
enough  to  deeply  cover  the  fish.  Keep  this  at  a 
boiling  point  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Be 
very  careful  not  to  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Boiling 
salt  fish  toughens  it ;  but  when  cooked  in  hot 
water  it  can  be  made  tender  as  chicken.  When 
soaked  the  specified  time,  drain  off  all  the  water, 
adding  more  boiling  water,  more  or  less,  to  make 
it  the  moisture  you  like.  Into  a  heaping  spoonful 
of  butter  incorporate  a  little  flour.  Stir  this  to  the 
fish,  keeping  it  hot  enough  for  the  flour  to  cook.  If 
to  your  taste,  add  a  beaten  egg  at  the  same  time, 
allowing  time  for  it  to  cook. 

For  sponge  corn  cake,  see  receipt  in  Breakfast 
No.  9. 


188  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BREAICFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  77. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Codfish  a  la  Shaker,  with  Dropped  Eggs. 


Sponge  Corn  Cake  Muffins. 
Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

CODFISH  A  LA  SHAKER. 
Prepare  the  fish  as  in  Breakfast  Xo.  76.  Do  not 
have  it  very  juicy  in  this  case.  When  sufficiently 
cooked,  dish  it  on  a  platter  and  keep  hot.  Drop 
the  number  of  eofo^s  needed  into  boilino:  water, 
being  careful  to  keep  them  in  shape,  and  as  soon 
as  the  whites  are  set,  carefully  place  them  on  the 
fish.  Garnish  with  parsley.  This  unpretending 
breakfast  is  very  palatable,  and  a  very  convenient 
one  in  cases  of  exigency,  as  most  people  have  the 
articles  used  on  hand. 

DROPPED   EGGS. 
(See  Breakfast  iS"o.  1.) 

MUFFINS. 
(See  Indian  Sponge  Cake,  Breakfast  ISTo.  9.) 


FISH    BREAKFASTS.  189 

BREAKFAST  No.  78. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Minced  Fish  and  Potatoes.       Sponge  Corn  Cake. 


Cucumbers.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

MINCED  FISH  AND  POTATOES. 
What  is  left  from  dinner  is  usually  used  for 
minced  fish.  Pick  out  all  the  bones  and  skin  the 
day  the  fish  is  cooked,  as  salt  fish  is  not  so  pliable 
when  cold  and  easier  shredded  when  warm.  Chop 
fine.  Do  not  mash,  but  chop  evenly  and  fine  the 
potatoes.  Mix  both  evenly  together  in  the  morn- 
ing, also  chop  potatoes  in  the  morning.  Allow 
more  or  less  potato  than  fish,  as  you  fancj^  Cover 
the  bottom  of  the  spider  with  melted  butter,  then 
pour  in  the  fish  and  potato.  Add  enough  milk  to 
moisten  the  mixture,  but  add  it  without  stirring. 
If  you  want  a  brown  crust  to  form  on  the  bottom, 
do  not  stir  it  at  all,  but  keep  it  covered.  Be  care- 
ful that  it  does  not  burn.  When  done,  add  butter  ; 
mix  carefully,  not  disturbing  the  crust.  Loosen 
the  crust  with  a  knife.     Have  it  turn  out  a  nice 


190  WHAT    TO    GET   FOE    BEEAKFAST. 

brown,  with  the  crust  side  up,  or  you  can  fold  it 
as  YOU  do  an  omelet. 

If  you  do  not  prefer  a  crust,  you  need  not  be 
cautious  about  disturbing  the  mixture  from  the 
bottom,  but  stir  it  the  usual  way. 


BREAKFAST  No.   79. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 


Baked  Minced  Fish  and  Potatoes. 


Brown  Bread  Brewis.        Sweet  Pickled  Beets. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Frui 


BAKED   MINCED   FISH  AND   POTATOES. 

This  is  an  elegant  dish  of  fish  and  potatoes,  when 
gotten  in  good  taste.  Prepare  fish  as  in  Breakfast 
Xo.  78.  Add  butter,  milk,  and-  one  raw  egg. 
Mix  all  too'ether.  Be  careful  not  to  o-et  the  mix- 
ture  too  moist.  Butter  a  round  tin  pan,  then 
sprinkle  it  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Fill  the  pan, 
coYer  it,  and  bake  till  brown  on  the  bottom  and 
sides.  Turn  it  on  a  platter  when  done,  and  retain 
the  form,  if  possi)j>le. 


FISH   BREAKFASTS.  191 

BROWN   BREAD   BREWIS. 
Take  crusts  and'  pieces  of  brown  bread.     Cover 
them  with  milk,  and  simmer  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.     Just  before  served,  add  a  little  butter  and 
salt. 


BREAKFAST  No.  80. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Fish  Balls.  Brown  Bread  Toast. 

Spiced  Peaches.  Coffee. 

Ripe  Fruit. 

FISH  BALLS. 
In  New-England  these  are  a  well-known  and  an 
honored  dish.  Mince  fine  boiled  salt  fish,  after 
every  vestige  of  bone  and  skin  are  removed. 
Mash,  not  chop,  fresh  boiled  potatoes.  Have 
more  potato  than  fish,  or  they  will  not  unite  well. 
Work  both  into  a  united  mixture  by  adding  butter. 
Some  think  a  beaten  egg  an  improvement.  Flour 
your  hands,  and  make  the  mixture  into  little  flat 
cakes.  Dredge  them.  Fry  as  doughnuts  in  boil- 
ing hot  drippings.  Take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  lay  them  on  a  strainer  that  the  fat  may 
drain  oflT.     Send  to  the  table  on  a  hot  platter. 


192  WHAT    TO   GET   FOR   BEEAKTAST. 

BROWN   BREAD  TOAST. 

Brown  bread  requires  longer  toasting  than  white 
bread.  When  nicely  toasted,  dip  into  melted 
butter  mixed  with  a  little  hot  water. 

SPICED   PEACHES. 

Although  not  decided  and  positive  enough  to 
suit  most  palates,  yet  there  are  those  who  admire 
them.  If  you  do  not  keep  sweet  pickles  on  hand, 
take  a  few  preserved  peaches,  and  to  some  of  the 
syrup  add  spices  and  vinegar.  This  is  sometimes 
a  convenience  to  use  a  superabundance  of  pre- 
serves.    Any  preserve  can  be  served  in  this  way. 


BREAKFAST  No.  81. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Broiled  Salt  Fish.  Baked  Potatoes^ 


Boiled  Eg-gs.  Corn  Meal  Crumpets. 


Coffee. 


BROILED  SALT  FISH. 

This  is  a  nice  breakfast  for  an  emergencyc     Cut 
from  the  thickest  part  of  the  fish  a  square.     Cover 


FISH   BREAKFASTS.  193 


it  with  boiling  hot  water,  and  soak  in  a  warm  room 
over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  this  water, 
and  if  you  suspect  that  it  has  not  freshened  suffici- 
ently add  hot  water  again,  and  set  it  on  the  back 
of  stove  for  ten  minutes.  The  application  of  hot 
water  will  make  the  fish  more  tender  than  cold 
water.  Wipe  the  fish  dry,  and  broil  over  a  clear 
fii'e.     Butter  when  done,  and  serve  hot. 

CORN  MEAL  CRUMPETS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 

One  heaping  spoonful  of  flour. 

One  egg,  well  beaten. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Add  Indian  meal  enough  to  make  a  batter  of 
the  right  consistency.  Dissolve  soda  in  a  little 
warm  water,  and  mix  to  the  batter.  Try  a  spoon- 
ful on  the  griddle  before  you  bake  them,  so  that 
you  may  add  more  flour  if  too  thin,  or  more  milk 
if  too  thick.  Serve  hot  as  fast  as  you  bake  them. 
Do  not  pile  one  on  the  other. 


SBCTIOlSr  X. 

EGG    BREAKFASTS. 


EGG   BREAKFASTS.  197 


X. 

EGGS. 

Eggs  contain  a  great  deal  of  nutriment  in  a 
small  compass,  and  possess  all  the  properties  neces- 
sary to  develop  animal  life. 


BREAKFAST  No.  82. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Boiled  Eggs.  East-wind  Gems. 


Family  Bread.  Coffee. 


Strawberries. 


BOILED  EGGS. 
I  have  already  given  the  most  popular  method 
for  boiling  eggs  in  Breakfost  No.  7,  but  would 
add  that  a  wire  basket  for  boiling  them  is  a  great 
improvement.  Carefully  place  the  eggs  in  the 
basket  before  putting  them  into  the  hot  water,  and 
there  will  be  no  danger  of  cracking  them.  Boil  to 
suit  your  guests. 


198      '         WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BEEAKTAST. 


EAST-WIND   GEMS. 

It  is  not  known  whether  these  hygienic  breakfast 
cakes  are  of  the  days  of  unleavened  bread,  or  a 
modern  invention.  You  need  not  fear  the  east 
wind  they  may  have  imbibed,  for  the  hot  oven 
coimteracts  its  mischievous  influence,  and  they  are 
not  only  hygienic,  but  taste  good.  Their  fibre  is 
like  nut  meats,  and  you  A^ill  enjoy  giving  the  teeth 
just  the  exercise  they  need  when  jon  are  eatinof 
them. 

You  are  supposed  to  have  baking-irons  for  these 
gems,  else  you  had  better  not  attempt  them. 
Take  very  cold  milk  and  water,  half  and  half. 
Stir  in  Graham  and  wliite  flour,  half  and  half, 
Kttle  by  little,  until  you  have  a  batter  that  will 
drop  from  the  spoon  and  not  rtm.  It  must  be 
stiiTcd  rapidly,  lightly,  and  thoroughlyj  the  more 
the  better,  to  incoiporate  a  large  amount  of  air 
and  insure  lightness.  It  needs  a  strong  aiTa  to 
cany  this  into  efl<ect. 

Have  the  gem-pans  ready  hot  in  a  hot  oven. 
This  you  must  be  sure  about  to  secure  light  gems. 
Drop  the  batter  into  the  hot  irons  while  in  the 
oven,  or  if  you  are  very  quick  take  the  irons  out 
for  convenience.  They  require  a  quick  oven  to 
bake  them,  else  you  lose  the  air  they  have  taken 


EGG    BREAKFASTS. 


199 


in,  which  is  a  nice  point  to  determine,  for  the  oven 
should  bake  as  fast  as  it  can  without  burning. 

If  you  don't  succeed  this  time  try  again,  — keep 
trying  and  don't  give  it  up.  Make  your  batter  a 
little  thinner  or  thicker,  your  oven  a  little  slower 
or  quicker.  There  is  a  way,  you  may  feel  sure, 
and  if  you  keep  trying  you  will  find  it  out,  and 
will  be  likely  to  repeat  your  success  often.  When 
these  culinary  curiosities  are  in  perfection  they  are 
light  and  puffy,  and  you  have  pure  unleavened 
bread,  with  no  taste  of  "emptyings"  or  soda. 


BREAKFAST  No.  83. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  Cream  Muffins. 

Cold  Bread.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

"When  scrambled  eggs  are  served  for  breakfast, 
guests  should  be  in  readiness  betimes,  as  their  im- 
mediate consumption  is  one  of  the  conditions  of 
their  perfection. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 
Break  five  or  six  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  beat  for 
one  minute.     Heat  the  frying-pan.     Melt  a  table- 


200  WHAT    TO    GET   FOE   BREAKFAST. 

spoonful  of  butter,  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
pour  in  the  eggs.  Begin  at  once  to  stir  to  and  fro 
from  the  bottom,  as  the  e2:s  hardens  there  first. 
Keep  all  the  egg  stiiTed  together,  till  there  is  no 
liquid,  but  a  delicate  mixture  of  white  and  yellow, 
moist  but  not  running,  that  will  heap  on  a  dish. 
When  just  right,  turn  quickly  into  a  dish  and 
serve.  If  left  in  the  hot  pan  it  will  go  on  harden- 
ing, and  is  not  fit  to  be  served. 

CREAM   MUFFINS. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  6S. ) 


BREAKFAST  No.  84. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Poached  Eggs.  Breakfast  Twists. 


Baked  Apples.  Cocoa  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

In  Breakfast  Xo.  2  are  directions  for  poached  or 
dropped  eggs.  Bear  in  mind  that  the  water  for 
poached  eggs  must  be  at  the  boihng  point  when 
the  eggs  are  dropped  into  it,  and  cooked  without 


EGG   BREAKFASTS.  201 

boilino^  until  a  white  coatinor  jg  formed,  throuofh 
which  the  yolks  are  visible. 

COCOA  AU   LAIT. 

Is  simply  half  cocoa  and  half  milk.  Boil  half  a 
pot  of  cocoa  sufficiently,  and  while  boiling  hot  fill 
the  pot  with  hot  milk.  Do  not  boil  the  milk. 
Boiled  milk  gives  it  an  unpleasant  flavor.  De- 
licious. 


BREAKFAST  No.  85. 


Oatmeal  Mush. 


Baked  Eggs.  Minced  Lamb  or  Veal. 


Breakfast  Twists.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 


BAKED   EGGS. 


Butter  liberally  a  baking-pan  the  size  you  need 
for  the  number  of  eggs.  Fill  in  as  many  muffin- 
rings  as  you  have  eggs.  Break  each  egg  into  a 
cup,  and  when  the  butter  is  hot  pour  the  eggs 
gently  into  the  rings.  Bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven  until  the  whites  are  cooked.     When  done, 


202  AVHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKTAST. 

lav  them  on  the  mince.      These  are  much  more 

delicate  than  fried  eggs. 

BREAKFAST  T^VISTS. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  60.) 


BREAKFAST  No.   86. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Fried  Eggs.  Frizzled  Beef. 


Fried  Hasty  Pudding.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FRIED   EGGS. 

Have  ready  a  fry-pan  with  boiling  drippings 
enough  to  cover  an  egg  when  broken  into  it. 
Break  each  egg  into  a  cup.  and  pour  one  at  a  time 
into  the  hot  fat.  Do  not  crowd  them.  Three  or 
four  are  enough  to  fry  at  a  time.  As  soon  as  the 
white  is  set.  with  a  spoon  dip  the  hot  fat  repeat- 
edly over  the  eggs.  This  will  prevent  the  neces- 
sity of  turning  them,  which  cannot  be  done  with- 
out spoiling  the  beauty  of  the  eggs.  Take  them 
up  with  a  perforated  ladle,  and  serve  quickly.  K 
preferred,  they  can  be  dropped  into  muffin-rings, 
as  for  dropped  eggs. 


EGG    BREAKFASTS.  203 

FRIZZLED   BEEF. 

Half  a  pound  of  smoked  beef,  shaved  very  thin, 
and  just  heated  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


OMELETS. 

A  heavy  and  scorched  omelet  is  not  fit  to  be 
served.  To  know  just  how  to  create  this  popular 
breakfast  dish,  and  get  it  to  the  table  so  that  it  will 
be  succulent,  juicy,  and  soft  as  cream  inside,  with 
fine  and  firm  outside,  requires  a  little  practice  to 
make  one  perfect. 

They  should  be  cooked  in  a  pan  made  on  pur- 
pose, for  a  large  frying-pan  allows  the  omelet  to 
spread  too  much,  and  a  certain  thickness  secures 
the  softness  of  the  inside.  Fry  them  only  on  one 
side.  When  the  under  side  is  done  or  browned, 
and  the  upper  side  brought  to  a  moderate  consist- 
ency, the  brown  side  is  to  be  folded  once,  or  in 
three,  as  you  fancy. 

There  are  a  multitude  of  receipts  for  omelets,  but 
the  principles  are  the  same  for  all,  the  difference 
being  only  in  the  flavoring.  Allow  from  three  to 
five  eggs  for  an  omelet ;  but  never  over  five  for  a 
single  one,  as  they  do  not  work  well.     If  more 


204  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

eggs  are  required,  two  or  three  omelets  should  be 
made.  For  breakfast,  they  are  more  delicate  with- 
out flavoring. 


BREAKFAST  No.  87. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Plain  Omelet.  Split  Bannock  Toast. 


Strawberries.  Coffee  or  Cocoa. 

This  is  a  dainty  breakfast  when  gotten  in  perfec- 
tion and  eaten  instantaneously.  Guests  should  be 
notified  that  omelet  is  a  fleeting  pleasure,  and 
unless  eaten  at  the  right  moment,  its  goodness  is 
lost  forever. 

PLAIN   OMELET. 
Four  fresh  eggs. 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
Or  milk. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Beat  them  slightly  ; 
just  long  enough  to  mix  them  and  no  more. 
Allow  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  or  milk  to  each 
egg,  and  beat  together.  Do  not  salt  them,  as  it 
will  flatten  the  omelet.     When  nearly  read}^,  have 


EGG    BKEAKFASTS.  205 

the  pan  set  on  the  fire.  Put  into  it  about  an  ounce 
of  butter,  which  is  a  rounded  table  spoonful.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  the  butter  brown.  As  soon  as  it 
is  hot,  pour  in  the  omelet.  When  it  sets  or  begins 
to  cook,  raise  it  often  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  to 
let  the  air  and  butter  pass  in,  which  keep  it  from 
burning.  If  the  heat  is  right,  the  whole  mass  will 
puff  up  and  cook  in  a  minute. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  wait  till  the  whole  is  solid- 
ified, as  its  heat  will  finish  cooking  it  after  it  has 
left  the  pan.  When  it  ceases  to  be  a  liquid,  turn 
one  half  upon  the  other,  on  a  hot  plate.  Serve 
instantaneously.  Hot  plates  are  an  absolute  ne- 
cessity. If  your  omelet  is  perfect,  you  will  find  a 
porous  material  when  you  put  a  silver  knife 
into  it. 

Obs.  — An  omelet  fried  in  chicken  or  turkey  fat 
is  much  whiter  and  nicer  than  when  fried  in  butter. 
Turkey  and  chicken  drippings  should  be  clarified 
the  same  as  beef  drippings. 

SPLIT  BANNOCK  TOAST. 
(See  Short  Cake  Toast,  Breakfast  No.  12.) 


206  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  88. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Bread  Omelet.  Raised  Muffins. 


Stewed  Prunes.  Cocoa  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

This  moderate  yet  dainty  breakfast  when  artis- 
tically achieved  is  warmly  greeted  at  the  breakfast 
table. 

BREAD   OMELET. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  four  spoon- 
fuls of  milk,  then  beaten  soft.  Four  or  live  eofors 
beaten  till  you  can  dip  up  a  spoonful.  Mix  all 
together.  Moisten  the  bottom  of  the  pan  well 
with  butter,  and  when  hot  pour  in  the  omelet. 
Fry  a  nice  brown.  Turn  one  half  over  the  other, 
and  serve  quickly. 

RAISED   MUFFINS. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  48.) 

COCOA  AU   LAIT. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  84.) 


EGG    BREAKFASTS.  207 


BREAKFAST  No.   89. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Corn  Omelet.  Raised  Waffles. 


Family  Bread.  Cocoa  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

CORN  OMELETS. 

A  dainty  omelet  this  when  gotten  in  perfection. 
Boil  three  ears  of  tender  corn.  When  cold,  grate 
them  fine.  Beat  four  or  five  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  separately.  Add  one  gill  of  milk  or  cream 
to  the  yolks  ;  then  stir  them  to  the  corn.  Whisk 
the  whites  dry,  and  lightly  stir  them  through  the 
mixture.  Make  some  butter  hot  in  the  frying-pan, 
and  pour  the  omelet  into  it.  Fry  a  light  brown. 
Fold  the  usual  way,  and  serve  immediately. 

RAISED   WAFFLES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  21.) 


208      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   90. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Baked  Omelet.  Cream  Toast. 


Strawberries.  Coffee  or  Cocoa. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Tills  Is  a  very  conyenlent  omelet,  because  it  does 
not  engross  the  attention  while  cooking,  like  the 
ordinary  omelet,  and  is  a  handsome  as  well  as 
satisfying  dish  for  breakfast.  Beat  four  or  live 
fresh  eggs.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  cream  or  milk, 
and  stir  thorouo-hly  too'ether.  Pour  the  omelet 
into  a  buttered  earthen  pudding-dish,  and  bake  as 
you  would  a  custard,  till  firm.  When  done,  inyert 
the  omelet  on  another  dish  suited  to  its  conyeni- 
ence.     Serye  Cjuickly. 

CREAM   TOAST. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  40. ) 


EGG   BREAKFASTS.  209 


BREAKFAST  No.  91. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Excelsior  Omelet.        Huckleberry  Short  Cake. 


Coffee.  Fruit. 


EXCELSIOR  OMELET. 

This  breakfast,  when  in  perfection,  will  entertain 
the  most  fastidious.  If  you  are  given  to  attempt- 
ing omelets,  be  wise  betimes,  and  suggest  to  your 
guests  that  they  delay  not  this  omelet  by  lingering  ; 
for  this  is  uncertain  like  all  others,  and  does  not 
wait.  Beat  together  yolks  and  whites  of  five  fresh 
eggs,  until  you  can  dip  them  up  with  a  spoon. 
Stir  to  this  one  and  a  half  cups  of  new  milk. 
When  mixed,  pour  into  a  well  buttered  spider 
already  on  the  fire.  Now  you  do  not  manage  this 
like  the  ordinary  omelet ;  but  with  a  spoon  instead 
of  a  knife  you  toss  it  from  the  bottom  as  the  egg 
"sets."  Do  not  toss  or  dissever  it  too  much,  but 
when  done,  have  it  look  like  broken  custard. 
When  there  is  no  liquid  to  the  egg,  turn  it  quickly 
into  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  directly.  Salt,  but- 
ter, and  pepper,  individually  applied.  Warm 
plates  desirable. 


SECTIO]^"  XL 
CROQUETTE  AND   SAUSAGE  BREAKFASTS. 


CROQUETTE    AND    SAUSAGE    BREAKFASTS.       213 


XI. 

CROQUETTES. 

"  Gather  up  the  fragments  that  remain,  that 
nothing  be  lost." 

This  text  is  quite  opportune  for  those  house- 
keepers who  do  not  appreciate  the  odds  and  ends 
of  food.  There  are  not  a  few  spendthrift  house- 
keepers, who  never  trouble  themselves  about  a 
stale  loaf  of  bread,  clean  and  sweet  pieces  of  meat, 
except  to  consign  them  to  "the  waste,"  but  who 
must  have  whole  and  new  materials  to  start  each 
meal.  Others  are  content  with  an  unsightly  dish, 
rather  than  exercise  their  taste  and  ingenuity  in 
making  a  handsome  breakfast  dish  from  homely 
pieces  of  food.  A  sensitive  and  delicate  stomach 
is  often  affected  through  the  day  when  disappointed 
of  breakfast  by  an  unsightly  dish,  —  out  of  all 
order  and  shape,  —  served  on  the  same  dish  on 
which  served  before,  —  a  dish  of  ragged  butter 
and  broken  bread,  that  had  been  handled  at  a  pre- 
vious meal ;  and  for  the  final  dish  muddy  and 
unsettled  coffee.  Such  a  breakfast  is  anything  but 
appetizing,  and  to  some  persons  absolutely  sick- 


214  ^VHAT    TO    GET    FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Yet  there  are  those  who  can  produce  a  handsome 
breakfast  from  the  fragments  left  from  dinner  the 
jDrevious  day.  This  economy  is  practised  quite  as 
often  in  homes  where  economy  is  not  a  matter  of 
necessity,  as  where  it  is  necessary,  and  such  break- 
fasts are  just  as  appetizing  as  new  food  when 
gotten  in  a  tasteful  manner ;  but  when  served  in- 
differently are  a  sheer  waste. 

There  are  various  ways  of  reconstructing  food 
to  gladden  the  stomach,  among  which  croquettes 
should  hold  a  place,  for  they  are  practical  and 
satisfactory.  These  little  culinary  productions  can 
be  made  of  fragments  of  cold  chicken,  turkey, 
lamb,  veal,  game,  fish,  potato,  and  rice.  Cold 
veal  and  chicken  are  especially  nice  for  croquettes. 
An  economical  t\nd  tasty  housekeeper  can  repro- 
duce, from  uninviting  fragments,  a  handsome 
breakfast  dish  of  croquettes. 


CROQUETTE    AND    SAUSAGE    BKEAKFASTS.       215 

BREAKFAST  No.  92. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Veal  Croquettes.  Potato  Croquettes. 


Graham  Griddle  Cakes.  Stewed  Prunes. 


Coffee. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 
Divest  of  skin  and  gristle  the  remnants  of  cold 
roast  or  stewed  veal.  Chop  them  fine,  adding  a 
quarter  as  much  bread  crumbs  as  meat.  Allow 
one  beaten  egg  to  two  cupfuls  of  the  mixture,  to 
bind  it  together.  If  needed,  add  a  very  little 
milk,  cream,  or  gravy  to  moisten  it.  When  mixed, 
season  to  taste,  mould  into  pear  shape,  roll  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs,  and  place  in  a  buttered  bake- 
pan.  Bake  each  side  a  nice  brown  in  the  oven ; 
or  put  them  into  a  frying  basket  and  fvj  in  hot 
drippings, 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 
When  you  have  prepared  more  mashed  potato 
than  is  needed  for  dinner,  it  is  very  convenient  to 
utilize  it  for  breakfast  in  croquettes.      Cut  into 


216  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

squares,  oblongs,  or  rounds,  about  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  thick,  or  thick  enouo:h  to  g-iye  them  the 
desired  strength.  Grease  the  bottom  of  a  baking- 
pan  with  SAYeet  drippings,  and  place  them  in  the 
pan  so  they  will  not  touch  each  other.  Bake  them 
a  nice  brown.  Brushing  them  over  with  a  beaten 
egg  when  they  begin  to  brown,  except  on  the  bot- 
tom, improves  their  appearance  ;  or  you  can  make 
into  balls  or  rolls,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  These 
should  be  egged  and  crumbed. 

GRAHAM   GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  44.) 

STEWED   PRUNES. 
(See  Breakfast  JsTo.  12. ) 


BREAKFAST  No.  93. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Chicken  Croquettes.  Breakfast  Twists. 


Green  Corn  Griddles.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 


CHICKEN   CROQUETTES. 
Chicken  croquettes  are  especially  nice  and  deli= 
cate.     They  are  prepared  the  same  as  veal  cro= 
quettes  in  Breakfast  No.  92. 


CROQUETTE    AND   SAUSAGE    BREAKFASTS.       217 

GREEN  CORN   GRIDDLES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  finely-grated  tender  corn. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk. 
Three  eggs  ;  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  cream-tartar. 

Warm  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs,  cream  the  butter, 
and  with  the  salt  add  to  the  corn.  Mix  soda  and 
cream-tartar  with  half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  stir  into 
the  mixture.  Lastly,  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  griddle  batter.     Bake  on  griddle. 


BREAKFAST  No.  94. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Turkey  Croquettes.  Fried  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  (light  as  a  foam).  Cranberry  Sauce. 


Coffee. 

TURKEY  CROQUETTES. 

Prepare  them  the  same  as  chicken  croquettes  for 
Breakfast  No.  93.  Serve  them  in  a  heated  dish 
garnished  with  parsley. 


218      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

FRIED  POTATOES 
Are  an  agreeable  companion  to  turkey  croquettes. 
Slice  raw  potatoes  a  little  thicker  than  for  Saratoga 
potatoes.  Soak  them  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour,  then  drain  and  dry  them  in  towels.  When 
dry,  put  them  into  hot  drippings,  seasoned  with  a 
little  of  the  turkey  fat.  Do  not  pack  them  to- 
gether, but  have  the  slices  separate.  Fry  them  a 
light  brown  in  a  spider.  Drain  them  from  the  fat, 
and  serve  hot. 


BREAKFAST  No.  95. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Mutton  or  Venison  Croquettes. 


Rice  Croquettes.  Currant  Jelly. 


Raised  Waffles.  Coffee. 

VENISON  OR  MUTTON  CROQUETTES. 
Mince  fine  remnants  of  mutton  or  venison.  The 
lean  only  is  used,  throwing  out  all  the  skin  and 
tough  portions.  Add  one-eighth  as  much  fine 
bread  crumbs  as  there  is  meat,  and  one  beaten 
esfof  to  bind  the  mixture  too;ether.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly  to  a  cupful  of  meat,  which 


CROQUETTE  AND  SAUSAGE  BREAKFASTS.   219 

stir  well  into  the  mixture.  If  moisture  is  needed, 
use  a  little  of  the  gravy  or  sweet  milk.  Make  into 
rolls,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  25.) 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  21.) 


BREAKFAST  No.  96. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Roast  Beef  Croquettes.  Yeast  Indian  Cake. 


Sweet  Pickled  Plums.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

ROAST  BEEF  CROQUETTES. 
Great  care  should  be  taken  to  pick  out  all  the 
gristle  and  skin  from  the  beef.  When  chopped 
fine,  add  one-quarter  as  much  of  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  a  well  beaten  eo-s^.  Work  the  mixture  all 
together  and  form  into  rolls.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

YEAST  INDIAN   CAKE. 

To  two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal,  two  cupfuls  of 
flour,  one  gill  of  yeast,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 


220  -WTIAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  add  warm  water 
enouofh  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Else  over  nis^ht. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

SWEET  PICKLED   PLUMS. 

Prepare  the  same  as  spiced  peaches  in  Breakfast 
Iso.  80.  Use  spices  more  or  less,  at  your  own 
discretion. 


BREAKFAST  No.  97. 


Cracked  Wheat. 
Fish  Croquettes.  Breakfast  Puffs. 


Dressed  Cucumbers.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Mince  fine  the  fragments  of  boiled  or  baked 
fresh  fish,  from  which  the  bones  and  skin  have 
been  removed.  Take  one-third  as  much  mashed 
potato,  a  very,  very  little  melted  butter,  a  beaten 
egg^  or  a  part  of  one,  according  to  the  quantity  of 
fish,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch.  Mix 
these  together  and  make  into  rolls,  which  roll  in 
beaten  e^'sr  and  bread  crumbs.     Heat  them  on  a 


CROQUETTE    AND    SAUSAGE    BREAKFASTS.       221 

well-])uttered  griddle,  or  fry  them  in  hot  drippings. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  28.) 


SAUSAGE. 

When  made  of  harmless  ingredients,  those  who 
have  unimpaired  digestion  may  occasionally  in- 
dulge in  sausage ;  but  as  a  frequent  dish  it  is  not 
to  be  recommended.  To  those  who  value  their 
health,  yet  sometimes  tolerate  high  relish,  I  would 
suggest  sausage  made  at  home  under  your  own 
supervision ;  for  there  are  as  many  good  reasons 
for  home-made  sausage  as  for  home-made  bread. 
If  you  buy  your  sausage,  you  know  not  what  you 
eat.  Perhaps  tainted  pork,  so  highly  seasoned 
that  you  cannot  tell  of  what  kind  of  abomination 
they  are  made.  Your  organ  of  taste  must  be  un- 
usually chemical  if  it  can  discover  "the  hidden 
secret "  in  this  highly  seasoned  and  disguised  com- 
bination. 

Sausages  made  of  veal,  beef,  or  lamb,  are  much 
more  wholesome  than  made  of  pork.  Sausage- 
meat  can  easily  be  prepared  by  housekeepers,  and 
it  is  just  as  satisfactory  as  when  put  into  skins. 


222  TTHAT   TO   GET   FOE   BREAKFAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   98. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 
Sausage  Cakes.  Brown  Bread  Toast. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Apple  Sauce. 


Coffee. 

SAUSAGE  CAKES. 

Chop  two  pounds  of  lean  beef  or  veal  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  very  fine.  The  com- 
mon fault  is,  the  meat  is  not  fine  enough.  If  you 
have  not  a  machine  for  chopping  sausage-meat, 
you  will  find  it  more  easily  chopped,  with  an  ordi- 
nary chopping-knife,  when  the  meat  is  a  little 
frozen.  When  chopped,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  sao^e,  to  vour  taste.  You  can  make  it  in 
small  quantities  and  often,  or  in  larger,  and  pack 
in  a  stone  jar.  When  wanted  for  use,  form  into 
little  flat  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  the  oven  on  a 
tin,  or  heat  in  the  spider  the  same  as  mince.  The 
last  method  is  usually  satisfactory,  and  is  quite  as 
nice  as  when  enclosed  in  a  skin  like  commercial 
sausao;e ;  besides,  you  have  the  satisfaction  of 
knowing  what  you  eat. 


CROQUETTE  AND  SAUSAGE  BREAKFASTS.   223 

BREAKFAST  No.  99. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Beefsteak  Sausage.  Yeast  Muffins. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Apple  Sauce. 


Coffee. 

This  breakfast  is  nice  enough  for  most  palates, 
and  when  beautifully  cooked,  will  disappear  phan- 
tom-like. 

BEEFSTEAK   SAUSAGE. 

Have  beefsteak  cut  thin,  very  thin.  Mix  to- 
gether one  teaspoonful  of  fine  sage,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Sprinkle 
this  seasoning  over  both  sides  of  the  steak  to  your 
taste.  Trim  off  the  fat,  and  scatter  a  few  pieces, 
shaved  thin  on  the  inside.  Now  roll  the  steaks 
very  tight  and  tie  them  at  each  end  and  in  the 
middle.  Lay  them  on  a  trivet  or  stand  fitted  into 
a  baking-pan.  Have  a  hot  oven,  that  the  surface 
may  soon  sear  and  securely  hold  the  juices. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  strings  when 
served. 


SECTION  xn. 

FKUIT    CAKE    BREAKFASTS. 


FRUIT   CAKE    BREAKFASTS.  227 


XII. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

A  FEW  dainty  and  delicious  fruit-cake  breakfasts 
are  suggested  for  those  who  cannot  relish  hearty 
food  for  a  summer  breakfast. 


BREAKFAST  No.  100. 


Whole  Wheat  and  Milk. 


Apple  Cake.  Cafe  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

Three  cupful s  of  flour. 

One  teaspoonfid  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  cupful  of  nice  Indian  meal. 

Half  a  cupful  of  creamed  butter. 

A  teacupful  of  sugar. 

Two  eofo^s. 

Two  cupfuls  of  nicely  soured  milk. 

Two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  finely  chopped  apples. 


228  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

]Mix  salt  and  soda  with  the  flour,  per  rule,  in 
which  make  a  hollow.  Just  moisten  the  Indian 
meal  with  boilino^  water.  Beat  butter  and  suo'ar 
together ;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  froth ;  beat 
whites  of  eggs  till  stiff;  then  beat  both  to- 
gether, and  with  the  scalded  meal,  sugar,  and 
eggs,  pour  into  the  hollow.  Xow  pour  in  the 
sour  milk,  and  stir  the  mixture  to  a  batter.  Have 
the  apples  already  chopped,  which  should  be  a  nice 
sour,  "and  those  that  cook  quickly.  Stir  them 
throughout  the  batter.  Butter  sheet  or  gem  pans, 
and  fill  two-thirds  full.     Serve  with  butter. 

Obs.  — The  Indian  meal  makes  the  crust  of  the 
cake  tender,  but  flour  can  be  substituted,  if  pre- 
ferred. 


BREAKFAST  No.  101. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Strawberry  Short  Cake.  Cafe  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 


This  is  a  delicious,  delicate,  and  cooling  summer 
breakfast.      For  directions,  see  strawberry  short 


cake,  in  Breakfast  Xo.  45. 


CAFE  AU   LAIT. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo.  37. ) 


rilUIT    CAKE    BREAKFASTS.  229 


BREAKFAST  No.  102. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Cherry  Short  Cake.  Cocoa  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 
CHERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 
This  delicious  cake,  when  made  in  perfection, 
can  hardly  be  surpassed,  and  meets  with  an 
especially  warm  reception  among  the  juveniles, 
w^ho  always  make  a  triumph  over  early  rising 
when  this  cake  is  served  for  breakfast.  To  bedn 
with,  you  must  not  use  an  acid  cherry,  however 
ripe.  Only  very  sweet  and  very  ripe  ones  will 
answer  for  this  cake.  These  too,  must  be  of  the 
very  best  quality.  Make  a  short  cake  as  for 
strawberry  short  cake  in  Breakfast  No,  45.  When 
the  cake  is  baked,  split  and  butter  the  inside  of 
each  half.  Have  the  cherries  stoned.  Add  them 
thickly  and  liberally  to  one  half  of  the  cake, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  lay  the  other  half  on  the 
top  of  the  cherries.  If  you  have  two  or  more 
cakes,  do  not  pile  one  on  the  other.  Keep  them 
separate,  or  they  will  be  soggy.  They  look  nicer 
when  baked  in  Washington-pie  plates,  and  cut  pie 
fashion  when  served. 


230      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKTAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  103. 


Crushed  Wheat. 


Peach  Short  Cake.  Cafe  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

PEACH  SHORT  CAKE. 

This  luscious  cake  makes  a  delicate  and  grateful 
summer  breakfast,  if  the  peaches  are  sound,  ripe, 
and  of  the  finest  flavor.  Never  use  an  inferior 
peach  for  a  short  cake.  Proceed  as  for  strawberry 
short  cake  in  Breakfast  ^""0.  45.  Peel,  slice  thinly, 
and  sugar  the  peaches  to  taste. 


BREAKFAST  No.   104. 


Crushed  Wheat. 
Huckleberry  Short  Cake.  Cafe  au  Lait. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

See    Breakfast   Xo.    10    for   huckleberry  short 
cake. 


FEUIT   CAKE    BREAItFASTS.  231 

BREAKFAST  No.  105. 

Hominy  and  Milk. 


Strawberry  Muffins.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

STRAWBERRY  MUFFINS. 
Four  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
An  even  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Three  eggs. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk. 

Add  soda,  cream-tartar,  and  salt  to  flour,  per 
special  rule.  Cream  the  butter  and  beat  the  sugar 
to  it.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  foam.  Make  a 
hollow  in  the  middle  of  flour.  Drop  the  sugar, 
butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  milk  into  it.  Beat 
these  ingredients  to  a  batter.  Lastly,  add  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stifl"  froth.  Bake  immediately. 
When  well  done,  split  and  butter  each  half.  Fill 
each  muffin  liberally  with  strawberries. 


232  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKTAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.   106. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Huckleberry  Muffins.  Cocoa. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

HucklebeiTj  muffins  the  same  as  for  Breakfast 
j^o.  14. 


BREAKFAST  No.  107. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Waffles.  Strawberries. 

Coffee. 

WAFFLES. 

Fom'  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Three  eofo^s. 

Two  liberal  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk. 


FRUIT   CAKE   BREAKFASTS.  233 

Add  soda,  crsam-tartar,  and  salt  to  dry  flour. 
Cream  the  butter ;  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs ;  with 
the  milk  pour  lo  the  flour  and  mix  to  a  batter. 
Lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stifi"  froth.  Butter  ths  waffle-irons  and  fill  three- 
quarters  full.     Bake  an  even  brown. 


BREAKFAST  No.  108. 

Cracked  Wheat. 
Breakfast  Buns  Strawberries  and  Cream, 


Coffee. 

BREAKFAST  BUNS. 

Three  cnpMs  of  sweet  milk. 

One  cupful  of  sugar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt» 

One  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stifi"  batter. 

Let  this  rise  all  night.  Early  in  the  morning, 
soften  a  generous  halt  cupful  of  butter  to  a  perfect 
cream;  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and 
beat  both  throuo^h  the  batter-  Beat  two  esr^'s, 
yolks  and  whites   separately;   then  to  the  batter 


234  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  tender  dough. 
When  well  kneaded,  mould  into  buns,  set  them 
into  a  buttered  biscuit-pan,  and  rise  to  a  sponge 
like  biscuit.  If  the  sponge  was  very  light,  half 
or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  the  morning  will 
make  them  lio:ht  enouo-h.  Serve  hot  for  break- 
fast.     Charmingly  nice. 


SECTioisr  xm. 

ANCESTRAL  BREAKFASTS. 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  237 


XIII. 

ANCESTRAL  BREAKFASTS. 

Many  old  fashioned  dishes,  hygienic  and  palata- 
ble, are  now  contemptuously  looked  at  and  neg- 
lected. It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  simplicity  of 
food  is  firettino^  unfashionable.  Pro2:ress  has  taugfht 
us  many  new  ideas  about  food,  yet  the  devotion  to 
many  ancestral  dishes  is  recommended  as  advan- 
tageous. These  few  resurrected  ones  are  sterling, 
and  by  the  sanction  of  them  to  our  children,  the 
vigor  of  our  race  can  measurably  be  kept. 


BREAKFAST  No.   109. 

Pan-dowdy  and  Cream. 
Boiled  Eg-gs.  Fried  Scrapple. 


Coffee. 

PAN-DOWDY. 

This  is  a  homely,  yet  hearty  and  palatable 
breakfast  dish.  Pare  and  quarter  enough  sour  and 
juicy  apples  to  nearly  fill  a  deep  earthen  baking- 


238  WHAT    TO    GET    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

dish,  add  to  the  apples  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  and 
nearly  a  cup  of  molasses.  Make  a  crust  as  for 
strawberry  short  cake  m  Breakfast  Xo.  45.  Eoll 
it  out  an  inch  thick  and  fit  closely  over  the  apples. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  as  long  as  the  crust  will 
allow.  When  done,  while  warm,  break  the  crust 
in  pieces,  which  mix  through  the  apple.  For 
breakfast  this  must  be  baked  the  day  previous. 
Serve  with  cream  or  milk.     Delicious. 

SCRAPPLE. 

'Tis  said  this  sterling  dish  came  to  America  in 
the  Mayflower,  and  for  aught  that  is  known  might 
have  been  produced  by  Mrs.  Eve.  It  is  convenient, 
palatable  and  nourishing ;  combining  beef,  beef 
tea  and  hasty  pudding. 

Select  such  a  piece  of  beef  as  you  would  for  soups  ; 
when  boiled  tender,  remove  the  meat,  put  the  hquor 
into  an  earthen  vessel  to  let  the  fat  rise  and  cool. 
Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  mince  it  fine  and  put 
it  into  the  kettle  with  the  hquor  and  a  little  of  the 
cooled  fat  that  was  on  the  top  of  liquor.  Add 
pepper  and  salt  at  discretion.  When  it  boils, 
thicken  with  Indian  meal  as  for  hasty  pudding. 
Simmer  till  thoroughly  done.  Be  careful  not  to 
scorch  it.  When  done,  mould  in  brick  loaf  pans. 
When  hardened,  cut  in  slices  nearly  an  inch  thick 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  239 

and  brown  on  griddle  greased  with  some  of  the  fat 
from  the  top  of  liquor.  This  can  be  kept  on  hand 
three  or  four  days  in  cold  weather.  A  nice  dish 
for  hearty  boys  and  girls  or  any  one  else. 


BREAKFAST  No.  110. 


stewed  Beans. 
Johnny  Cake.  Baked  Sweet  Apples. 


Coffee. 

Beans  are  the  richest  of  all  vegetables  in  nour- 
ishing matter,  except  oats  and  cabbage.  With  a 
little  fat  and  meat  a  high  strengthening  compound 
is  obtained.  '*  The  founders  of  New  England  ate 
bean  porridge  morning,  noon  and  night,  thanking 
their  Heavenly  Father  for  it  each  time."  Ph3^siol- 
oofists  consider  it  excellent  food  for  those  who  have 
to  make  great  use  of  their  muscle,  therefore  it  w^as 
w^ell  adapted  to  their  circumstances.  There  is  yet 
a  great  demand  for  force  and  muscular  strength, 
and  those  who  are  wise  will  perpetuate  the 
muscle  making  "  bean  porridge"  or  stewed  beans. 
With  an  Indian  cake  it  furnishes  a  very  acceptable 
and  nourishing  breakfast. 


240  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

STEWED  BEANS. 
The  round  or  pea  bean  is  the  best  and  most  deli- 
cate. Pick  and  wash  a  pint,  or  the  quantity  needed, 
of  dried  beans.  Put  them  into  a  kettle  with  cold 
water.  When  they  have  stewed  an  hour,  drain  off 
this  water  and  add  fresh  boiling  water.  Set  them 
where  they  will  simmer,  adding  more  hot  water 
when  needed.  Cook  them  indefinitely,  till  thor- 
oughly done ;  otherwise  they  are  indigestible  and 
unwholesome  like  other  underdone  vegetables. 
When  nearly  done,  add  a  few  pieces  of  uncooked 
steak,  roast  beef  or  lamb,  cut  in  squares  about  an 
inch  in  size,  or  a  little  beef  gravy  if  you  chance  to 
have  it,  or  a  piece  of  butter.  Add  sugar  and  salt 
to  your  taste.  Stewed  beans  should  have  plenty 
of  juice  and  not  dry  like  baked  beans.  In  cold 
weather  enough  can  be  cooked  to  last  two  or  three 
days,  and  the  required  complement  for  each  meal 
reheated. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 
This  cake  was  originally  baked  in  front  of  an 
open  fire  on  the  hearth  of  an  old-fiishioned  fire- 
place. Fireplaces  are  now  superceded  by  ranges 
and  stoves,  consequently,  our  Johnny  cake  has  to 
be  baked  on  the  griddle  or  in  the  oven,  and  is  not 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  241 

quite  like  its  predecessors  in  flavor,  yet  it  is  a  de- 
scendant.    To  make  this  cake,  take 

Two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal. 
A  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Pour  to  these  enough  scalding  water  or  scalded 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  mixture  thick  enough  to  re- 
tain its  form  when  moulded  in  the  hand.  Let  this 
stand  half  an  hour  or  more.  Grease  griddle  with 
butter.  Fit  a  cake  half  an  inch  thick  to  it.  Smooth 
its  surface.  When  nicely  browned  turn,  but  just 
before  turning,  place  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  cake  to 
keep  it  from  scorching  after  turned.  The  heat 
must  be  moderate.  When  both  sides  are  nicely 
browned,  it  can  be  transferred  to  a  pan  and  a  hot 
oven  to  finish  its  crispness,  or  it  can  be  baked 
entirely  in  the  oven.  These  are  a  delicious  corn 
cake,  when  baked  long  enough  to  give  them  the  de- 
sired crispy  sweetness,  and  are  irresistible  to  the 
lovers  of  crust,  and  crisp  Indian  cake.     Serve  hot. 


24.2  \YTL AT    TO    GET   FOE   BREAKTAST. 


BREAKFAST  No.  111. 


stewed  Peas. 
Mutton  Chops.  Corn  Meal  Griddles. 


Coffee. 

STEWED   PEAS. 

In  nourishment,  peas  are  of  about  the  same  value 
as  beans.  They  are  not  quite  as  rich  in  albumen, 
but  contain  more  starch.  Stewed  peas,  when  well 
cooked,  is  a  dish  of  great  nourishing  excellence. 
The  natural  flavor  of  peas  is  delicious,  and  to  many 
more  palatable  than  beans.  They  should  be  cooked 
slowly  in  a  plenty  of  water  till  done.  When  nearly 
done,  add  a  few  pieces  of  roast  beef  or  mutton 
bones  to  flavor  them.  They  should  be  cooked 
previously,  and  reheated  for  breakfast. 

CORN   MEAL  GRIDDLES. 

One  pint  of  Indian  meal. 

A  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

A  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  243 

Pour  boiling  water  slowly  upon  this  mixture, 
stirring  till  all  is  moistened,  when  leave  it  to  swell 
half  an  hour.  When  cool  enough,  break  into  it 
three  unbeaten  eggs,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  milk.  Beat  these  well  into  the  dough.  Test 
the  batter  on  the  griddle,  and  add  a  little  cold 
milk  from  time  to  time,  till  the  batter  is  the  right 
thickness  to  bake  and  turn  conveniently.  Bake 
both  sides  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot,  and  well  but- 
tered. Griddle  cakes  are  descendants  of  the  an- 
cestral flapjacks. 


BREAKFAST  No.  112. 

Beefsteak  a  la  Frying  Pan. 
Fried  Hasty  Pudding  Balls.  Baked  Sweet  Apples. 


Cafe  au  Lait. 

BEEFSTEAK  A   LA   FRYING  PAN. 

See  Breakfast  Xo.  9.  Make  a  gravy  by  pour- 
ing half  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  the  pan  in  which 
the  steak  was  cooked,  and  adding  a  thickening 
made  of  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  flour  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Let  these  come  to  a  boil, 
which  pour  over  the  steak  and  serve. 


244      WHAT  TO  GET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

FRIED  HASTY  PUDDING  BALLS. 
Make  yonr  hasty  pudding  per  rule  in  Breakfast 
Xo.  4.  When  cooked,  and  while  hot,  stir  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  four  cupfuls  of 
hasty  pudding.  Stir  one  well-beaten  egg  into  the 
mixture,  when  cool  enough  not  to  curdle  the  egg. 
Vrhen  nicely  mixed,  make  into  balls  about  tv\^o 
and  a  half  inches  in  circumference,  by  rolling  them 
in  flour  on  the  moulding  board.  Fry  them  in  hot 
drippings  like  doughnuts.     Serve  hot. 


BREAKFAST  No.  113. 

Indian  Suet  Cake. 
Baked  Apple  Sauce.  Coffee, 

Hot  beef  suet  in  some  form  was  once  a  favorite 
remedy  for  consumption.  For  wasting  diseases  it 
was  prescribed  as  we  now  prescribe  cod  liver  oil. 
Suet  cake  was  an  excellent  conveyance  for  getting 
this  fat  into  the  system,  when  in  need  of  this  ele- 
ment. When  the  theniiometer  readings  are  low, 
then  is  the  time  to  venture  a  delicious  suet  cake. 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  245 

INDIAN   SUET  CAKE. 
Two  ciipfuls  of  Indian  meal. 
One  cupful  of  flour. 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Three  eggs. 
Half  a  cupful  of  sugar. 
Two  cupfuls  of  rich  sour  milk. 
One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  suet. 

Add  salt  and  soda  to  the  dry  meal  and  flour. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together.  Add 
these  wdth  the  milk  to  the  meal  and  stir  to  a  batter. 
Stir  in  the  suet,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  till  stiff.  Bake  in  well  buttered  Washing- 
ton pie  plates  or  shallow  cake  pans.  When  baked, 
draw  a  sharp  knife  through  the  upper  crust  only,  in 
the  shape  you  like.  Serve  hot.  This  mixture  can 
be  baked  in  muffin  or  gem  pans. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 
(See  Breakfast  No.  2.) 


246  T^'HAT    TO    GET    FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.   114. 

Minced  Calf's  Head  and  Pluck. 


Rye  Muffins.  Coffee. 

MINCED   CALF'S  HEAD  AND   PLUCK. 

What  remains  from  dinner  makes  a  i ice  mince  for 
breakfast.  Choj^  together  the  diflerent  parts,  and 
heat  in  just  enough  of  the  liquor  to  moisten.  Add 
sah  and  pepper  to.  taste.     Serve  hot. 


BREAKFAST  No.  115. 

Rye  Pancakes. 
Baked  Apples.  Cafe  au  Lait. 

RYE   PANCAKES. 
One  pint  of  rich  sour  milk, 
Or  buttermilk. 
Three  eggs. 

One  teaspooniul  of  soda. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses. 


ANCESTRAL   BREAKFASTS.  247 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  warm  water  and  stir 
into  the  milk.  Thoroughly  beat  the  eggs,  which 
add  to  the  milk.  Stir  into  the  mixture  rye  meal 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  In  order  that  these 
famous  pancakes  be  successfully  made  they  must 
be  thick  enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon,  otherwise 
they  will  soak  fat.  They  will  be  nearly  round  and 
not  rough  with  irregular  points  if  rightly  thickened. 
Too  many  must  not  be  put  into  the  kettle  at  a  time, 
as  they  rise  a  great  deal  and  besides  are  in  danger 
of  cooling  the  temperature  of  the  fat  too  much. 

Have  ready  a  Scotch  kettle  of  hot  drippings. 
Dip  your  spoon  into  it  each  time  you  dip  it  into  the 
batter,  that  it  may  slip  quickly  from  the  spoon. 
When  the  pancakes  look  done,  try  one  with  a  knit- 
ting needle.  If  it  comes  out  smoothly,  they  are 
done  and  should  be  taken  out  with  a  skimmer. 
They  should  be  a  nice  brown  outside,  light  and 
well  done  inside.  Graham  flour  may  be  substituted 
for  rye  if  preferred. 

RYE  PANCAKES 
Are  a  breakfast  of  "ye  olden  times,"  and  when  in 
perfection  are  a  satisfying  winter  breakfast.  They 
are  a  breakfast  of  themselves,  most  people  not 
requiring  an  accompaniment.  Their  satisfying 
virtues  are  still  kept  in  mind  by  many  families. 


248  WHAT   TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Should  this  fare  prove  msufficient  at  any  time,  our 
popular  modern  preludes,  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat 
can  be  introduced. 


BREAKFAST  No.   116. 

[An  Ancestral  Thanksgiving  Breakfast. 
Chicken  Pie. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Coffee. 


Baked  Sweet  Apples. 


This  popular  and  dainty  ancestral  thanksgiving 
breakfast  still  holds  its  place  in  many  families.  Its 
accompaniments  are  few,  as  it  is  a  breakfast  itself. 

CHICKEN   PIE. 

For  a  pie  boil  the  chickens  in  water  enough  to 
barely  cover  them.  Skim  them.  When  tender  or 
done  take  them  out  into  a  platter  and  carve  them 
the  same  as  if  to  be  served  on  the  table.  Eemove 
the  skin  if  very  thick.  Have  ready  a  deep  baking 
dish,  lined  with  a  thick  paste.  Have  the  dish  pro- 
portioned to  the  quantity  of  chicken  you  wish  to 
use.  Arrange  thp  chicken  so  that  the  same  kind  of 
pieces  may  not  come  out  together,  when  served. 


ANCESTRAL    B11EAKFA8TS.  249 


Sprinkle  each  layer  with  a  little  flour  and  salt. 
Fill  the  dish  nearly  full  with  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chickens  were  boiled,  bat  not  so  full  as  to  be  in 
danger  of  boiling  over.  Cover  with  an  upper  paste 
and  close  the  edges  very  carefully.  Bake  nearly  an 
hour,  or  till  the  crust  is  handsomely  done.  The 
crust  for  chicken  pie  should  be  twice  as  thick  as 
for  fruit  pies.  Use  butter  in  the  licpor  if  you 
prefer  it, 

PASTE   FOR  CHICKEN   PIE. 

One  quart  of  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

One  cupful  of  butter. 

Mix  these  ingredients  the  same  as  for  short  cake, 
avoiding  too  much  flour.  This  makes  a  nice  and 
tender  paste. 


250  WHAT    TO    GET    FOE    BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.   117. 

[Another  traditional  Tlianksgiving  Breakfast. 
Fricassee  Chicken. 


A  Short  Cake.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Cranberry  Sauce.  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit, 

FRICASSEE   CHICKEN. 
(See  Breakfast  Xo,  47.) 


SHORT  CAKE. 

One  quart  of  sifted  "flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  solid  l3utter. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

Mix  cream-tartar,  soda  and  salt  with  the  flour. 
Eub  the  butter  into  this  mixture  till  the  whole  is 
like  meal.  "^Yhen  well  mixed,  add  the  milk.  Stir 
till  light  and  exen.  The  quicker  you  work  now 
the  better.  Have  your  board  well  sprinkled  with 
fiour   and   instantly   bring    the    dough    together. 


ANCESTRAL    BREAKFASTS.  251 

Divide  this  into  so  many  parts  as  will  be  needed  to 
fit  your  sheet  pans  when  rolled  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  evenly  fitted  to  the  pans,  incise  each  cake 
with  squares.  Bake  a  nice  brown.  Break  the 
cake  in  the  incisions  and  serve  hot. 


BREAKFAST  No.  118. 

Milk  Toast. 

Honey.  Cafe  au  Lait. 

Ripe  Fruit. 

HONEY. 

"My  son,  eat  thou  honey,  because  it  is  good; 
and  the  honeycomb,  which  is  sweet  to  thy  taste." 
—  Bible. 

"  Hast  thou  found  honey  ?  eat  so  much  as  is  suf- 
ficient for  thee,  lest  thou  be  filled  therewith  and 
vomit  it."  —  Bible  Hygiene. 

"It  is  not  good  to  eat^oo  7nuc1i  honey."  —  Bible 
Hygiene. 

Honey  is  a  vegetable  product.  Pure  and  fresh 
honey,  when  eaten  in  moderate  quantities,  is  whole- 
some. The  comb  is  not  easily  digested.  Old 
honey  should  be  eschewed.  — Modern  Hygiene, 


252  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR    BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST  No.  119. 

[A  Modern  Thanksgiving  Breakfast.] 
Chicken  Pie. 


Baked  Potatoes.  Warm  Biscuit. 


Apple  Sauce.  Coffee. 

CHICKEN   PIE. 

Cook  the  chicken  as  for  the  ancestral  chicken 
pie.  When  done,  remove  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  flake  it.  Do  not  have  it  hke  mince,  hut 
in  long,  thin  and  manifest  pieces.  Line  a  hirge, 
deep  soup  plate  with  a  thick  paste,  made  per 
ancestral  chicken  pie  rule.  Fill  the  plate  with 
chicken,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  through  it,  adding 
butter,  salt  and  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
boiled.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste  and  bake  a  nice 
bro^Ti.  Be  sure  you  brown  the  under  crust. 
Serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  the  liquor  in  which 
the  chickens  were  boiled. 


SECTION  XIY. 

SUNDAY    BREAKFASTS. 


SUNDAY   BREAKFASTS.  255 


XIY. 

SUNDAY  BREAKFASTS. 

In  this  nineteenth  century  Sabbath,  the  clers-y, 
teachers,  also  hearers,  make  heavy  drafts  on  their 
brains,  and  keep  the  Sabbath  at  a  high  pressure. 
Unless  their  Sunday  diet  is  nourishing  and  adapted 
to  their  individual  wants,  they  fiiil  to  sustain  the 
great  Sabbath  work  which  is  before  them.  Relio-ion 
and  Hygiene  demand  quietness  and  freedom  from 
care  on  this  day,  therefore  we  should  make  all  the 
necessary  preparations  on  Saturday  for  Sunday's 
diet  that  can  be  made,  keeping  no  one  from  church 
or  depriving  them  from  reasonable  rest,  — yet  that 
the  pressing  necessities  of  a-modern  Sabbath  justify 
an  easy,  reasonable,  nourishing,  and  warm  break- 
fast, who  can  disallow  ? 


256  WHAT    TO   GET   FOE   BREAKFAST. 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  1. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Beefsteak.  Baked  Potatoes. 


Biscuit  [light  as  a  foam).  Coffee. 


Ripe  Fruit. 

This  nourishing  and  easily  digested  breakfast 
is  often  absohitely  indispensable  for  clergymen, 
vocalists,  and  teachers.  Many  think  it  a  task 
to  broil  a  steak  on  Sunday  morning,  yet  it  does 
not  appropriate  any  more  time  than  many  warmed 
over  breakfasts.  The  cracked  wheat  and  biscuit 
can  be  cooked  on  Saturday.  If  the  biscuit  are 
very  light,  ethereal,  they  are  as  nice,  some  say 
nicer,  when  re-heated,  than  new  ones. 


SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  2. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Minced  Fish  and  Potatoes.       Brown  Bread  Toast. 


Sweet  Pickles.  Coffee. 

Ripe  Fruit. 

MINCED   FISH  AND   POTATOES. 
Minced  fish  and  potatoes,  accompanied  with  nice 
brown  bread  toast,  is  an  easy  and  palatable  break- 


SUNDAY   BREAKFASTS.  257 

fast.  Many  housekeepers  institute  it  for  Sunday's 
breakfast,  as  it  can  be  prepared  on  Saturday,  and 
heated  on  Sunday  morning.  For  directions,  see 
Breakfast  No.  78. 

BROWN   BREAD  TOAST. 

Instead  of  rye  mix  Graham  meal  with  Indian  for 
brown  bread.  It  is  thought  quite  like  Boston 
brown  bread,  and  makes  superior  toast.  For 
brown  bread  toast,  see  Breakfast  No.  80. 


SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  3. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 


Fish  Balls.  Brown  Bread. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit, 

FISH   BALLS. 

These  are  a  convenience  for  Sunday  breakfasts 
and  usually  meet  with  appreciation.  They  can 
be  prepared  on  Saturday  and  heated  on  Sunday 
morning,  and  with  oatmeal  for  a  prelude,  make  a 
very  substantial  breakfast  for  those  who  require 
one. 

BROWN   BREAD. 

For  Sunday's  breakfast,  use  your  own  favorite 
brown  br&.ad,  or  brown  bread  toast. 


258  VTKAT    TO    GET    FOR    BEEAKTAST, 


SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  4. 


Cracked  Wheat. 


Boiled  Eggs.  Buttered  Toast. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

This  is  a  convenient  and  nourishing  breakfast, 
and  can  be  accomplished  in  very  little  time. 


SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  5. 

Cracked  Wheat,  irith  Cream  and  Sugar. 


Cocoa  or  Cafe  au  Lait. 


This  is  a  valuable  and  delicious  breakfast, 
relished  by  many  every  morning.  For  delicate 
persons,  cream  is  of  especial  value  and  is  often 
digested  more  readily  than  milk.  A  dressing  of 
cream  and  sugar  add  both  to  the  flavor  and  nutritive 
qualities  of  cracked  wheat. 


SXJNDAY    BREAKFASTS.  259 


BAKED   PORK  AND  BEANS. 

'  Tis  said  that  a  distinguished  American  clergy- 
man declined  preaching  to  roast  beef  and  plum 
pudding  on  Sunday  afternoons, — which  strongly 
suggests  a  dull  and  stupid  audience,  —  and  under 
the  influence  of  such  an  indigestible  mixture,  un- 
appreciated sermons.  Might  not  the  clergy  as 
reasonably  decline  preaching  to  baked  pork  and 
beans  on  Sunday  forenoons,  for  it  is  allowed  that  pork 
is  the  most  indigestible  of  all  meats,  besides  being 
unscriptural  ?  Just  enough  of  easily  digested  food 
leaves  all  the  faculties  clear  and  energetic,  there- 
fore may  we  not  conclude  that  our  conceptions  are 
more  or  less  influenced  on  the  Sabbath  by  this 
indigestible  breakfast?  Do  not  lessons  from  ex- 
perience prove  that  an  easy,  nourishing,  and  readily 
digested  breakfast  is  the  right  one  for  Sunday  ? 


2  GO  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BEEAKFAST. 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  6. 

Cracked  Wheat. 


Baked  Beef  and  Beans.  Brown  Bread. 


Coffee.  Ripe  Fruit. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 
The  reason  for  introducing  cracked  wheat  as  a 
prelude  to  the  ''  iiTesistible  "  baked  beans,  is  to 
prevent  their  excessive  use  on  Sunday  morning. 
A  hearty  breakfast  of  baked  beans  produces  drow- 
siness with  many.  Physiologically,  beans  are  not 
brain-inspiring,  but  excellent  for  those  workers 
who  make  great  use  of  their  muscles,  while  no 
article  is  equal  to  wheat  cereals  for  the  nourishment 
of  the  brain.  TThy  not  institute  a  dish  of  cracked 
wheat  for  Sunday's  breakfast,  preparatory  to  beans  ? 
With  a  dressing  of  sugar,  cream,  or  milk,  it  is 
charmino;.  It  can  be  steamed  on  Saturday,  and 
reheated  on  Sunday  morning. 

BAKED  BEEF  AND  BEANS. 
I  am  well  aware  that  the  devotees  of  baked  pork 
and  beans  may  feel  a  personal  injury  at  the  inno- 
vation made  on  their  time-honored  Sunday  break- 
fast. I  confess  there  is  not  a  more  convenient 
dish  for  Sunday's  breakfast  than  baked  pork  and 


SUNDAY    BREAKFASTS.  261 

beans ;  for  they  can  be  cooked  on  Saturday  and 
reheated  on  Sunday  morning.  Notwithstanding 
this,  the  unwholesomeness  of  pork  should  be  a 
sufficient  excuse  for  substituting  another  com- 
panion. Baked  beef  and  beans  are  just  as  con- 
venient for  Sunday's  breakfast,  and  many  think 
quite  as  savory. 

Instead  of  pork,  select  the  same  quantity  of 
fresh  beef,  not  deficient  in  fat,  —  more  or  less,  as 
3^ou  prefer.  You  will  have  to  learn  from  experi- 
ence the  quantity  of  beef  that  will  render  it  most 
palatable.  Prepare  the  same  as  pork  and  beans,  not 
omitting  the  preservative  element,  salt.     Try  this. 

When  corned  beef  is  sweet  and  nice,  some  think 
it  preferable  to  fresh  beef ;  but  you  incur  a  risk  by 
using  it,  as  sometimes  it  is  kept  too  long  before 
corned,  and  imparts  an  objectionable  flavor  to 
]  jeans. 

BROWN   BREAD. 

This  accompaniment  to  baked  beans  is  made 
absolutely  necessary  by  the  law  of  the  palate. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Graham  meal. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  cupful  of  molasses. 

Half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 


262  WHAT    TO    GET   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Do  not  scald  Indian  meal  if  sweet  and  fresh.  It 
wiU  be  lighter  if  not  scalded.  Thoroughly  mingle 
the  salt,  soda,  and  dry  meal.  Pour  the  molasses 
into  the  middle  of  the  meal.  Mix  with  warm  water 
to  a  smooth  batter  about  as  thick  as  Johnny  cake. 
In  the  summer  this  should  not  be  made  over  night, 
as  it  rises  quicker  than  other  bread.  For  Sunday 
morning,  it  can  be  raised  Saturday  forenoon  and 
steamed  in  the  afternoon.  AVhen  sufficiently  light, 
put  the  mixture  into  a  well-greased  bread  boiler. 
Do  not  quite  fill  it,  but  leave  room  for  the  meal  to 
swell.  Cover  both  boiler  and  steamer  and  boil 
steadily  for  four  and  a  half  hours.  At  the  end 
of  this  time,  take  the  boiler  out  of  steamer,  remove 
the  lid,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour,  to 
dry  off,  and  form  a  tender  crust.  To  be  nice  it 
must  be  hot,  and  should  be  reheated  on  Sunday 
morning. 


INDEX. 


Page 

Eeasons  for  a  good  Breakfast 15 

What  Animal  Food  to  Eat  .        .        .        ...        .18 

Fats 24 

Winter  and  Summer  Breakfasts        ....      25 
Genuine  and  Counterfeit  Breakfasts     ...      29 

Measures 37 

Soda  and  Sour  Milk -.37 

Soda  and  Cream-Tartar       .        .        .        .        .        .39 

Home-made  Yeast 40 

Breakfast  Fares 42 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 


Buttered  Toast 
Raised  Biscuit 
Fried  Hasty  Pudding 
Raised  Loaf  Bread . 
Rye  Muffins    . 
Fried  Hominy 
Squash  Biscuit 
Indian  Sponge  Cake 
Huckleberry  Short  Cake 
Sally  Lunn  Cake    . 
Short  Cake  Toast    . 


Page 
56 
59 
63 
69 
74 
77 
78 
80 

,  81 
82 
84 


Huckleberry  Muffins 
Parker  House  Biscuit 
Flour  and  Indian  Waffles 
Corn  Bread  Loaf     . 
Cream-tartar  Biscuit 
Raised  Waffles 
Country  Griddle  Cakes 
Rice  Waffles    . 
Graham  Puffs 
Breakfast  Puffs 
Raised  Graham  Muffins 


Page 

87 

89 

,      90 

96 

98 

100 

101 

108 

114 

115 

110 


264. 


IXDEX. 


BREAD   AXD   BEEAKFAST   CAKES— (co?i). 


Graham  Biscuit 

Cracked  TMieat  Griddles, 

Buckwheat  Cakes  . 

Corn  Meal  Sponge  Cake, 
Xo.  2    . 

Cream  Toast  . 

Cora  Meal  Raised  Muf- 
fins      .... 

Sponge  Corn  Cake  Muf- 
fins      .... 

Toasted  Crackers    . 

Graham  Meal  Griddles   . 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  . 

Yeast  Muffins . 

Twin  Biscuit  . 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 


AGE 
118 

Hasty  Pudding  fried  in 

119 

Crumbs 

121 

Bread-Crumb  Griddles   . 

Soda  Muffins  . 

132 

Breakfast  Twists    . 

135 

Cream  Muffins 

Bread  Muffins 

136 

Flannel  Cakes 

iSTew- England      Johnny 

138 

Cake    .... 

140 

Brown  Bread  Brewis 

141 

Brown  Bread  Toast 

146 

Corn  Meal  Crumpets 

149 

East-wind  Cake 

150 

Green  Corn  Griddles      . 

153 

Yeast  Indian  Cake . 

Page 

156 
157 
171 
173 
178 
180 
181 

183 
191 
192 
193 
198 
217 
219 


CEREALS. 

Cracked  Wheat       .        .      48  I   Fried  Cracked  Wlieat     .  68 

TThole  Wheat          .         .       58   j    Hominy  ....  73 

Oatmeal  Mush        .        .      66   I    Fried  Hominy         .        .  77 


BEEF   BREAKFASTS. 


Beefsteak 

Sirloin  Beefsteak 

Rump  Beefsteak 

A  Top  Round  Beefsteak, 

Beefsteak   a    la    frying 

pan 
Oven-broiled  Beefsteak 
Shi-edded  Raw  Beef 


.       50 

Delmonico's  Beef  Hash . 

96 

55 

Roast  Beef  Hash     . 

97 

.       59 

Sliced  Corned  Beef . 

98 

:,       76 

Sliced  Cold  Roast  Beef  . 
Roast   Beef    and   Barley 

99 

.       79 

Stew     .... 

101 

.       88 

Fried  Liver 

102 

.       91 

Frizzled  Beef  . 

203 

INDEX. 

205 

YENISON    BREAKFASTS. 

Page 

Page 

Venison  Steak        .        .     107 

Venison  Rolls 

110 

Venison  Hash         .        .     109 

MUTTOISr   AND   LAMB   BREAKFASTS. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops    .     113 

Lamb  Fricassee 

120 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops      .     115 

Sliced   Cold    Mutton    or 

Fried    Breaded    Mutton 

Lamb  .         .         . 

121 

Chops  .        .        .        .116 

Egged  Mutton  Hash 

123 

Oven-broiled     Mutton 

Minced    Mutton,    Eggs, 

Chops  .        .        .        .118 

and  Rice 

124 

Minced  Lamb.        .        .     119 

Steamed  Mutton  Mince  . 

125 

VEAL   BREAKFASTS. 


Veal  Fricassee 

,.     130 

Oven-broiled  Veal  Cutlets, 

136 

Veal  Stew 

.     131 

Egged  Veal  Hash   . 

138 

Veal  Hash       . 

.     133 

Sweetbread  Fricassee 

139 

Scalloped  Veal 

.     134 

Fricassee  of  Tripe  . 

140 

DOMESTIC  FOWL   BREAKFASTS. 


Broiled  Chickens    . 

145 

Stewed  Chicken     . 

.     155 

Oven-broiled  Chickens   . 

147 

Turkey  Hash  . 

.     156 

Chicken  Fricassee  . 

148 

Warmed-over  Turkey 

.     158 

Chicken  warmed  over    . 

149 

Broiled  Pigeons 

.     161 

Minced  Chicken 

150 

Broiled  Squabs 

.     162 

Chicken    a    la    Cunard 

Steamer 

152 

Broiled  Prairie  Chicke^^s 



.     154 

Broiled  Quails 

. 

.     159 

Oven-broiled  Quails 

. 

.     160 

266 

INDEX. 

FISH 

BREAKFASTS. 

Page 

Claeified  Deippixgs 

. 

165 

Ct.a-rified  Beef  Suei 

167 

The  Peixcipees  of  Fetes'G  Fish 

167 

Broiled  SaliiioR  Steaks 

.     169 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel     . 

183 

Canned     Salmon     with 

Fried  Codfish  Steaks 

184 

Cream  Sauce 

.     170 

Fresh  Fish  Mince  . 

185 

Fried  Trout     . 

.     171 

Fricassee     of     Tongues 

Fried  Smelts   . 

.     172 

and  Sounds . 

186 

Broiled  Halibut 

.     174 

Codfish  a  la  Shaker 

187 

Halibut  a  la  Creme 

.     175 

Codfish  a  la  Shaker,  with 

Fried  Flounders 

.     176 

Dropped  Eggs 

188 

Broiled  Shad  . 

.     177 

Minced  Fish  and  Potatoes, 

189 

Little  Pereli  (fried) 

.     178' 

Baked  Minced  Fish  and 

Turbot  a  la  Creme  . 

.     179 

Potatoes 

190 

Broiled  Scrod . 

181 

Fish  Balls 

191 

Broiled  Fresli  Mackerel 

182 

Broiled  Salt  Fish    . 

192 

EGG 

BREAKFASTS. 

Eggs  on  Toast         .       5 

1,  151 

Omelets  .... 

203 

Boiled  Eggs     .        .       *i 

6,  197 

Plain  Omelets 

204 

Scrambled  Eggs 

.     199 

Bread  Omelet . 

206 

Poached  Eggs . 

200 

Corn  Omelets . 

207 

Baked  Eggs     . 

201 

Baked  Omelets 

_  208 

Fried  Eggs      .  .      . 

202 

Excelsior  Omelets  . 

'  209 

CROQUETTE  AX 

D   SA 

USAGE  BREAKFASTS. 

Pace  Croquettes 

109 

Eoast  Beef  Croquettes    . 

219 

Yeal  Croquettes 

215 

Fish  Croquettes 

220 

Potato  Croquettes  . 

215 

Sausage  .... 

221 

Chicken  Croquettes 

216 

Sausage  Cakes 

222 

Turkey  Croquettes  . 

217 

Beefsteak  Sausage  . 

223 

Mutton      and     Yenison 

Croquettes  . 

218 

INDEX. 


267 


VEGETABLES. 


Page 

Page 

Macaroni 

.       52 

Sliced  Tomatoes     . 

.     114 

Baked  Potatoes 

.       59 

Broiled  Tomatoes  . 

.     117 

Tomato  Sauce 

.       64 

Water-cress  Salad  . 

.     137 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

74 

Creamed  Potatoes  . 

.     138 

Cucumbers 

80 

Saratoga  Potatoes  . 

.     154 

Corn  Oysters  . 

.      82 

Warmed-over  Potatoes,  97, 158 

Fried  Onions  . 

.      85 

Dressed      Lettuce     and 

Sweet  Pickled  Beets 

86 

Celery 

.     170 

Green  Corn     . 

89 

Potato  Croquettes  . 

215 

Warmed-up  Potatoes 

95 

Fried  Potatoes 

.     218 

Cabbage  Salad 

98 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

.     138 

Canned  Corn  Oysters 

99 
FRU 

ITS. 

- 

Baked  Apple  Sauce 

56 

Oatmeal  Jelly 

125 

Ripe  Fruit 

65 

Sliced  Oranges 

133 

Dried  Apple  Sauce 

68 

Cranberry  Sauce     . 

156 

Grapes    .        .        .        . 

75 

Cranberry  Jelly 

161 

Baked  Sweet  Apples 

75 

Currant  Jelly  . 

162 

Strawberries    . 

77 

Watermelons  . 

174 

Stewed  Prunes 

85 

Spiced  Peaches 

192 

Fried  Apples  . 

102 

Sweet  Pickled  Plums 

220 

BREA] 

KFAS 

T   DRINKS. 

Coffee     .        .        .        . 

52 

Coffee  au  lait  .  •      . 

130 

Cocoa      .        .        •        . 

■57 

Cocoa  au  lait  . 

201 

Tea.        .        . 

91 

268 


IXDEX. 


FRUIT   CAKE 

Page 

Huckleberry  Short  Cake 

81 

Huckleberry  Muffins 

87 

Apple  Cake     . 

227 

Strawberiy  Cake     . 

228 

Cherry  Short  Cake . 

229 

ATs^CESTRAL 

Pandowdy  and  Cream 

237 

Fried  Scrapple 

238 

Johnny  Cake  . 

240 

Stewed  Beans . 

240 

Stewed  Peas    , 

242 

Corn-meal  Griddles 

242 

Beefsteak      and      Friec 

L 

Hastv  Pudding  Balls 

243 

BREAKFASTS. 

Peach  Short  Cake  . 
Strawberry  Muffins 
"Waffles  and  Strawberries, 
Buns.  Strawberries,  and 
Cream .        .        .        . 


Page 
230 
281 
232 

233 


BREAKFASTS. 


and 


Indian    Suet    Cake 

Baked  Apples 
Minced  Calf's  Head  and 

Pluck  .... 
Eye  Pancakes . 
Ancestral  Thanksgiving 

Breakfast     .        .     248,  250 
Milk  Toast  and  Honey  .     251 


245 

246 

246 


A  MODEEX  THAXKSGITIXGr  BREAKFAST     .         .     252 
SUNDAY  BPvE.lKFASTS 255-262 


acf 


u 


wmmsr^ 


