Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


Cti,^m-^    JCjr^    '^^ra'<rn^i'Cri^ 


(SHI 


COPYRIGHTED    18S7    BY    F.    L.    GIl-LETTE. 


COPYRIGHTED    18S9    BY    R.    S.    PEALE. 


1  o  the 

Wi>7es  of  ©ur  j^residents, 

I  hose  JNIoble  Women  who  ha>7e 

(3 raced  the  White  ylouse, 

^nd  whose  JNames  and  JVlemories 

i\re  dear  to  all  ^Americans, 

I  his  Volume 
Is  affectionately  dedicated 


N  presenting  this  book  of  recipes  to  the  public,  I  do  so  at  the  urgent 
request  of  friends  and  relatives.  During  forty  years  of  practical 
housekeeping,  it  has  been  my  custom,  after  trying  and  testing  a 
recipe,  and  finding  it  invariably  a  success,  and  also  one  of  the  best  of  its  kind, 
to  copy  it  in  a  book,  thereby  accumulating  a  considerable  amount  of  reliable  and 
useful  information  in  the  culinary  line. 

As  a  convenient  form  of  reference,  this  book  embodies  several  original  and 
conunendable  features,  among  which  may  be  mentioned  its  plain  print,  its  sim- 
plified method  of  explanation  in  preparing  an  article,  in  the  order  of  manipula- 
tion, thereby  enabling  the  most  inexperienced  to  clearly  comprehend  it.  Unlike 
most  books,  the  leaves  are  broad,  and  when  opened  it  will  not  close  of  itself^ 
which  obviates  the  necessity  of  frequently  opening,  as  is  the  case  with  narrow 
pages. 

The  subject  of  carving  has  been  given  a  prominent  place,  not  only  because 
of  its  special  importance  in  a  work  of  this  kind,  but  particularly  because  it  con- 
tains entirely  new  and  original  designs,  and  is  so  far  a  departure  from  the  usual 
mode  of  treatiog  the  subject. 

Hoping  this  book  may  be  acceptable  and  of  service  to  all  housekeepers  pos* 
sessing  a  copy, 

I  am  faithfully  yours, 

Mrs.  F.  L.  Gillette. 


(0 


^m 

PAOB 
1 

Soups, i        •        .  21 

Fiah, 41 

Shell  Fish, 57 

Poultry  and  Ckkme, 70 

Meats, 94 

Mutton  and  Lamb, 120 

Pork, 127 

Sauces  and  Dressing  for  Meats  and  Fish, 138 

Salads, 1^9 

Catsups, 156 

Pickles, 159 

Yegetables, 169 

Macaroni, 192 

Butter  and  Cheese, 194 

Eggs, 199 

Omelets, 203 

Sandwiches, 209 

Bread 211 

Biscuits,  Bolls,  Muffins,  eta, 221 

Toast,            246 

Cakes, 251 

Pastry,  Pies  and  Tarts 284 

Custards,  Cream  and  Desserts, 305 

Ice  Cream  and  Ices,             334 

Dumplings  and  Puddings, 339 

Sauces  for  Pudding, 371 

Preserves,  Jellies,  etc., 376 

Canned  Fruits, 389 

Coloring  for  Fruit  and  Confectionery, 395 

Confectionery, •        .        •         .         .  397 

Coffee,  Tea  and  Beverages, 408 

Preparations  for  the  Sick, 421 

Suggestions  in  regard  to  Health, 431 

Miscellaneous  Becipes,         .••••••••.  450 

Facts  worth  Knowing, 470 

Toilet  Becipes  and  Items, 480 

French  Words  in  Cooking, 489 

Articles  required  for  the  Kitchen, 490 

Dyeing  or  Coloring, 493 

Small  Points  on  Table  Etiquette, <  49i'; 

Dinner-giving, 500 

Measures  and  Weights  in  ordinary  use, 504 


K^lt'Rrt-Ri'R.'fcR^t  t  r,  r,  f*  I 


^^X>. 


r^'^C  •       "^       '  ''-^^'^■^■. 


7^^ '"-ui^^-^- ^"' — E%^;^p i^r 


<StiQlnal  anX>  Selected,  during  a  period  of 


FORTY  YEARS' 


i  ff stilfetl  iMii©i@©f  111  i 


By  Mrs.  F.  L.  Gillette. 


Y/^  L     F-     IvlILLER   &    CO      L 

)\N)  CHICACO  PKILADfLPHIA  STOCKTON   CAT  / 


1  •'■"^'  '-^A 


COPYRIGHTED    1887    BY    F.    L.    GILLITTK. 


COrYRlUHTKD    1889    BY    R.    S.    PEALB. 


.^  ' 


Wl^ifee  §®yse  Qm\\  B©©^. 


CARVING. 

Carving  is  one  important  acquisition  in  the  routine  of  daily  living,  and  all 
should  try  to  attain  a  knowledge  or  ability  to  do  it  well,  and  withal  gracefully. 

When  carving  use  a  chair  slightly  higher  than  the  ordinary  size,  as  it  gives 
a  better  purchase  on  the  meat,  and  appears  more  graceful  than  when  standing, 
as  is  often  quite  necessary  when  carving  a  turkey,  or  a  very  large  joint.  More 
depends  on  skill  than  strength.  The  platter  should  be  placed  opposite,  and 
sufficiently  near  to  give  perfect  command  of  the  article  to  be  carved,  the  knife 
of  medium  size,  sharp  with  a  keen  edge.  Commence  by  cutting  the  slices  thin, 
laying  them  carefully  to  one  side  of  the  platter,  then  afterwards  placing  the 
desired  amount  on  each  guest*s  plate,  to  be  served  in  turn  by  the  servant. 

In  carving  fish,  care  should  be  taken  to  help  it  in  perfect  flakes;  for  if  these 
are  broken  the  beauty  of  the  fish  is  lost.  The  carver  should  acquaint  himself 
with  the  choicest  parts  and  morsels;  and  to  give  each  guest  an  equal  share  of 
those  tidbits  should  be  his  maxim.  Steel  knives  and  forks  should  on  no  account 
be  used  in  helping  fish,  as  these  are  liable  to  impart  a  very  disagreeable  flavor. 
A  fish-trowel  of  silver  or  plated  silver  is  the  proper  article  to  use. 

Gravies  should  be  sent  to  the  table  very  Aof,  and  in  helping  one  to  gravy  or 
melted  butter,  place  it  on  a  vacant  side  of  the  plate;  not  pour  it  over  their  meat, 
fish  or  fowl,  that  they  may  use  only  as  much  as  they  like. 

When  serving  fowls,  or  meat,  accompanied  with  stufiing,  the  guests  should 
be  asked  if  they  would  have  a  portion,  as  it  is  not  every  one  to  whom  the  flavor 
of  stufiing  is  agreeable;  in  filling  their  plates,  avoid  heaping  one  thing  upon 
another,  as  it  makes  a  bad  appearance. 

A  word  about  the  care  of  carving  knives:  a  fine  steel  knife  should  not  come  in 
contact  with  intense  heat,  because  it  destroys  its  temper,  and  therefore  impairs 
its  cutting  qualities.  Table  carving  knives  should  not  be  used  in  the  kitchen, 
either  around  the  stove,  or  for  cutting  bread,  meats,  vegetables,  etc.;  a  fine 
whetstone  should  be  kept  for  sharpening,  and  the  knife  cleaned  carefully  to 
avoid  dulling  its  edge,  all  of  which  is  quite  essential  to  successful  carving. 


BEEF. 


HiND-QUARTEB. 

No.  1.  Used  for  choice  roasts,  the  porter-house  and  suioin  steaks. 

No.  2.  Eximp,  used  for  steaks,  stews  and  corned  beef. 

No.  3.  Aitch-bone,  used  for  boiling-pieces,  stews  and  pot  roasts. 

No.  4.  Buttock  or  round,  used  for  steaks,  pot  roasts,  beef  d  la  mode;  also  a  prime 

boiling-piece. 
No.  5.  Mouse  round,  used  for  boiling  and  stewing. 
No.  6.  Shin  or  leg,  used  for  soups,  hashes,  etc. 
No.  7.  Thick  flank,  cut  with  under  fat,  is  a  prime  boiling  piece,  good  for  stews 

and  corned  beef,  pressed  beef. 
No.  8.  Veiny  piece,  used  for  corned  beef,  dried  beef. 
No.  9.  Thin  flank,  used  for  corned  beef  and  boiling-pieces. 


FORE-QUARTEB. 

No.  10.  Five  ribs  called  the  fore-rib.    This  is  considered  the  primest  piece  for 

roasting;  also  makes  the  finest  steaks. 
No.  11.  Four  ribs,  called  the  middle  ribs,  used  for  roasting. 
No.  12.  Chuck  ribs,  used  for  second  quality  of  roasts  and  steaks. 
No.  13.  Brisket,  used  for  corned  beef,  stews,  soups  and  spiced  beef. 
No.  14.  Shoulder-piece,  used  for  stews,  soups,  pot-roasts,  mince-meat,  a^d  hashes. 


BBBF.  3 

Nos.  15, 16.  Neck,  dod  or  sticfcmg-piece,  used  for  stocks,  gravies,  soups,  mince- 
pie  meat,  hashes,  bologna  sausages,  etc. 
No.  17.  Shin  or  shank,  used  mostly  for  soups  and  stewing. 
No.  18.  Cheek. 

The  following  is  a  classification  of  the  qualities  of  meat,  according  to  the 
several  joints  of  beef,  when  cut  up. 

FirsA  C/c(«i.— Includes  the  sirloin  with  the  kidney  suet  (1),  the  rump  steak 
piece  (2),  the  forerib  (11). 

5eco7id  C&ws.— The  buttock  or  round  (4),  the  thick  flank  (7),  the  middle 
ribs  (11). 

Third  Class. — The  aitch-bone  (3),  the  mouse-roimd  (5),  the  thin  flank  (8,  9), 
the  chuck  (12),  the  shoulder  piece  (14),  the  brisket  (13). 

Fourth  CTass.— The  clod,  neck  and  sticking  piece  (15, 16.) 

Fifth  Class-Shin.  or  shank  (17). 

Lamb  bom  in  the  middle  of  the  winter,  reared  under  shelter,  and  fed  in  a 
great  measure  upon  milk,  then  killed  in  the  spring,  is  considered  a  great  delicacy, 
though  lamb  is  good  at  a  year  old.  Like  all  young  animaJis,  lamb  ought  to  be 
thoroughly  cooked,  or  it  is  most  unwholesome. 


VEAL. 


VEAL. 

HlNB-QUARTEB. 

.No.  1.  Loin,  the  choicest  cuts  used  for  roasts  and  chops. 

No.  2.  Fillet,  iised  for  roasts  and  cutlets. 

No.  3.  Loin,  chump-end  used  for  roasts  and  chops. 

^o.  4.  The  hind-knuckle  or  hock,  used  for  stews,  pot-pies,  meat-pies. 

FORE-QUABTEB. 

No.  5.  Neck,  best  end  used  for  roasts,  stews  and  chops, 
^o.  6.  Breast,  best  end  used  for  roasting,  stews  and  chops. 
No.  7.  Blade-bone,  used  for  pot-  roasts  and  baked  dishes. 
No.  8.  Fore-knuckle,  used  for  soups  and  stews. 
No.  1^.  Breast,  brisket-end  used  for  baking,  stews  and  pot-pies. 
No.  10.  Neck,  scrag-end  used  for  stews,  broth,  meat-pies,  etc. 

Li  cutting  up  veal,  generally,  the  hind-quarter  is  divided  in  loin  and  leg,  and 
the  fore-quarter  into  breast,  neck  and  shoulder. 

The  Several  Parts  of  a  Moderately-sizedj  well-fed  Calf  about  eight  weeks 
old,  are  nearly  of  the  following  weights:— Loin  and  chump,  18  lbs;  fillet,  12i  lbs. ; 
hind  knuckle,  5i  lbs.;  shoulder,  11  lbs.;  neck,  11  lbs.;  breast,  9  lbs.;  and  fore- 
knuckle,  5  lbs. ;  making  a  total  of  144  lbs.  weight. 


I 


MUTTON. 


MUTTON. 


^ 


No.  1.  Leg,  used  for  roasts  and  for  boiling. 

No.  2.  Shoulder,  used  for  baked  dishes  and  roasts. 

No.  3.  Loin,  best  end  used  for  roasts,  chops. 

No.  4.  Loin,  chump  end  used  for  roasts  and  chops. 

No.  5.  Back,  or  rib  chops,  iised  for  French  chops,  rib  chops,  either  for  trying  or 

broiling;  also  used  for  choice  stews. 
No.  6.  Breast,  used  for  roast,  baked  dishes,  stews,  chops. 
No.  7.  Neck  or  scrag  end,  used  for  cutlets  and  stews  and  meat  pies. 

Note. — A  saddle  of  mutton  or  double  loin  is  two  loins  cut  off  before  the  car- 
case is  spUt  open  down  the  back.  French  chops  are  a  small  rib  chop,  the  end  of 
the  bone  trimmed  off  and  the  meat  and  fat  cut  away  from  the  thin  end,  leaving 
the  round  piece  of  meat  attached  to  the  larger  end,  which  leaves  the  small  rib- 
bone  bare.    Very  tender  and  sweet. 

Mutton  is  prime  when  cut  from  a  carcase  which  has  been  fed  out  of  doors, 
and  allowed  to  run  upon  the  hillside;  they  are  best  when  about  three  years  old. 
The  fat  will  then  be  abundant,  white  and  hard,  the  flesh  juicy  and  firm,  and  of 
a  dear  red  color. 

For  mutton  roasts,  choose  the  shoulder,  the  saddle,  or  the  loin  or  haunch. 
The  leg  should  be  boiled.     Almost  any  part  will  do  for  broth. 


PORK. 


PORK. 

No.  1.  Leg,  used  for  smoked  hams,  roasts  and  corned  pork. 

No.  2.  Hind-loin,  used  for  roasts,  chops  and  baked  dishes. 

No.  3.  Fore-loin  or  ribs,  used  for  roasts,  baked  dishes  or  chops. 

No.  4.  Spare-rib,  used  for  roasts,  chops,  stews. 

No.  5.  Shoulder,  used  for  smoked  shoulder,  roasts  and  corned  pork. 

No.  6.  Brisket  and  flank,  used  for  pickling  in  salt,  and  smoked  bacon. 

The  cheek  is  used  for  pickling  in  salt,  also  the  shank  or  shin.  The  feet  are 
usually  used  for  souse  and  jelly. 

For  family  use,  the  leg  is  the  most  economical,  that  is  when  fresh,  and  the 
loin  the  richest.  The  best  pork  is  from  carcases  weighing  from  fifty  to  about 
one  hundred  and  twenty-five  pounds.  Pork  is  a  white  and  close  meat,  and  it 
is  almost  impossible  to  over-roast  pork  or  cook  it  too  much;  when  underdone  it 
is  exceedingly  unwholesome. 


VENISON 


VENISON. 

No.  1.  Shoulder,  used  for  roasting;  it  may  be  boned  and  stuffed,  then  afterwards 

baked  or  roasted. 
No.  2.  Fore-loin,  used  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
No.  3.  Haunch  or  loin,  used  for  roasts,  steaks,  stews.    The  ribs  cut  close  may  be 

used  for  soups.    Good  for  pickUng  and  making  into  smoked  venison. 
No.  4.  Breast,  used  for  baking  dishes,  stewing. 
No.  5.  Scrag  or  neck,  used  for  soups. 

The  choice  of  venison  should  be  judged  by  the  fat,  which,  when  the  venison 
is  young,  should  be  thick,  clear  and  close,  and  the  meat  a  very  dark  red.  The 
flesh  of  a  female  deer,  about  four  years  old,  is  the  sweetest  and  best  of  venison. 

Buck  venison,  which  is  in  season  from  June  to  the  end  of  September,  is  finer 
than  doe  venison,  which  is  in  season  from  October  to  December.  Neither  should 
be  dressed  at  any  other  time  of  year,  and  no  meat  requires  so  much  care  as 
venison  in  killing,  preserving,  and  dressing. 


SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 


SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

This  choice  roaating-piece  should  be  cut  with  one  good  firm  stroke  from  end 
to  end  of  the  joint,  at  the  upper  part,  in  thin,  long,  even  slices  in  the  direction 
of  the  line  from  1  to  3,  cutting  across  the  grain,  serving  each  guest  with  some 
of  the  fat  with  the  lean;  this  may  be  done  by  cutting  a  small  thin  slice  from 
underneath  the  bone  from  5  to  6,  through  the  tenderloin. 

Another  way  of  carving  this  piece,  and  which  will  be  of  great  assistance  in 
doing  it  well,  is  to  insert  the  knife  just  above  the  bone  at  the  bottom,  and  run 
sharply  along,  dividing  the  meat  from  the  bone  at  the  bottom  and  end,  thus  leav- 
ing it  perfectly  flat;  then  carve  in  long,  thin  slices  the  usual  way.  When  the 
bone  has  been  removed  and  the  sirloin  rolled  before  it  is  cooked,  it  is  laid  upon, 
the  platter  on  one  end,  and  an  even,  thin  slice  is  carved  across  the  grain  of  the 
upper  surface. 

Roast  ribs  should  be  carved  in  thin,  even  slices  fix)m  the  thick  end  towards 
tiie  thin  in  the  same  mamier  as  the  sirloin;  this  can  be  more  easily  and  cleanly 
done  if  the  carving  knife  is  first  run  along  between  the  meat  and  the  end  and 
rib-bones,  thus  leaving  it  free  from  bone  to  be  cut  into  slices. 

Tongue. — To  carve  this,  it  should  be  cut  crosswise,  the  middle  being  the  best; 
cut  in  very  thin  slices,  thereby  improving  its  delicacy,  making  it  more  tempting; 
as  is  the  case  of  all  well-carved  meats.  The  root  of  the  tongue  is  usually  left 
on  the  platter. 


BREAST  OF  VEAL. 


BREAST   OF  VEAL. 

This  piece  is  quite  similar  to  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb  after  the  shoulder  has- 
been  taken  off.  A  breast  of  veal  consists  of  two  parts,  the  rib-bones  and  the 
gristly  brisket.  These  parts  may  be  separated  by  sharply  passing  the  carving 
knife  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  1  to  2;  and  when  they  are  entirely  divided, 
the  rib  bones  should  be  carved  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  5  to  6,  and  the 
brisket  can  be  helped  by  cutting  slices  from  3  to  4. 

The  carver  should  ask  the  guests  whether  they  have  a  pi-eference  for  the- 
brisket  or  ribs;  and  if  there  be  a  sweetbread  served  with  the  dish,  as  is  fre- 
quently with  this  roast  of  veal,  each  person  should  receive  a  piece. 

Though  veal  and  lamb  contain  less  nutrition  than  beef  and  mutton,  in  pro* 
portion  to  their  weight,  they  are  often  preferred  to  these  latter  meats  on  account 
of  their  dehcacy  of  texture  and  flavor.  A  whole  breast  of  veal  weighs  from  nine? 
to  twelve  pounds. 


A  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 


A  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

A  Met  of  veal  is  oneof  the  prime  roasts  of  veal;  it  istaken  from  the  leg  above 
the  knuckle;  a  piece  weighing  from  ten  to  twelve  pounds  is  a  good  size  and 
requires  about  four  hours  for  roasting.  Before  roasting,  it  is  dressed  with  a 
force  meat  or  stuffing  placed  in  the  cavity  from  where  the  bone  was  taken  out 
and  the  flap  tightly  secured  together  with  skewers;  many  bind  it  together  with 
tape. 

To  carve  it,  cut  in  even  thin  slices  off  from  the  whole  of  the  upper  part  or 
top,  in  the  same  manner  as  &om  a  relied  roast  of  beef,  as  in  the  direction  of 
the  figures  1  and  2;  this  gives  the  person  served  some  of  the  dressing  with  each 
slice  of  meat. 

Veal  is  very  unwholesome  unless  it  is  cooked  thoroughly,  and  when  roasted 
should  be  of  a  rich  brewn  color.  Bacon,  fried  pork,  sausage-balls,  with  greens 
are  among  the  accompaniments  of  roasted  veal,  also  a  cut  lemon. 


NECK  OF  VEAL. 


II 


NECK  OF  VEAL. 

The  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  makes  a  very  good  roasting-piece;  it  however 
is  composed  of  bone  and  ribs  that  make  it  quite  difficult  to  carve,  unless  it  is 
done  properly.  To  attempt  to  carve  each  chop  and  serve  it,  you  would  not  only 
place  too  large  a  piece  upon  the  plate  of  the  person  you  intend  to  serve;  but  you 
would  waste  much  time,  and  should  the  vertebrae  have  not  been  removed  by  the 
butcher,  you  would  be  compelled  to  exercise  such  a  degree  of  strength  that 
vrould  make  one's  appearance  very  ungraceful,  and  possibly,  too,  throwing  gravy 
over  your  neighbor  sitting  next  to  you.  The  correct  way  to  carve  this  roast  is 
to  cut  diagonally  from  figure  1  to  2,  and  help  in  slices  of  moderate  thickness; 
ihen  it  may  be  cut  from  3  to  4,  in  order  to  separate  the  small  bones;  divide  and 
serve  them,  having  first  inquired  if  they  are  desired. 

This  joint  is  usually  sent  to  the  table  accompanied  by  bacon,  ham,  tongue,  oi 
pickled  pork  on  a  separate  dish  and  with  a  cut  lemon  on  a  plate.  There  are  aisc 
a  number  of  sauces  that  are  suitable  with  this  roast. 


LEG  OF  MUTTON. 


LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

The  best  mutton,  and  that  from  which  most  nourishment  is  obtained,  is  that 
of  sheep  from  three  to  six  years  old,  and  which  have  been  fed  on  dry  sweet 
pastures;  then  mutton  is  in  its  jjrtme,  the  flesh  being  Arm,  juicy,  dark  colored, 
and  full  of  the  richest  gravy.  When  mutton  is  two  years  old,  the  meat  is 
flabby,  pale  and  savorless. 

In  carving  a  roasted  leg,  the  best  sUces  are  found  by  cutting  quite  down  to 
the  bone,  in  the  direction  from  1  to  2,  and  slices  may  be  taken  from  either  side. 

Some  very  good  cuts  are  taken  from  the  broad  end  from  5  to  6,  and  the  fat 
on  this  ridge  is  very  much  liked  by  many.  The  cramp-bone  is  a  dehcacy,  and  is 
obtained  by  cutting  down  to  the  bone  at  d,  and  running  the  knife  under  it  in 
a  semicircular  direction  to  3.  The  nearer  the  knuckle  the  drier  the  meat,  but  the 
under  side  contains  the  most  finely  grained  meat,  from  which  slices  may  be  cut 
lengthwise.  When  sent  to  the  table  a  frill  of  paper  around  the  knuckle  will  im- 
prove its  appearance. 


FORE-QUARTES  OF  LAMB. 


FORE-QUARTER  OF  LAMB. 

The  first  cut  to  be  made  in  carving  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb  is  to  separate  the 
shoulder  from  the  breast  and  ribs;  this  is  done  by  passing  a  sharp  carving  knife 
lightly  around  the  dotted  line  as  shown  by  the  ^;ures  3,  4,  and  5,  so  as  to  cut 
through  the  skin,  and  then,  by  raising  with  a  Uttle  force  the  shoulder,  into 
which  the  fork  should  be  firmly  fixed,  it  will  easily  separate  with  just  a  Uttle 
more  cutting  with  the  knife;  care  should  be  taken  not  to  cut  away  too  much  of 
the  meat  from  the  breast  when  dividing  the  shoulder  from  it,  as  that  would  mar 
its  appearance.  The  shoulder  may  be  placed  upon  a  separate  dish  for  con- 
Tenience.  The  next  process  is  to  divide  the  ribs  from  the  brisket  by  cutting 
through  the  meat  in  the  line  from  1  to  3;  then  the  ribs  may  be  carved  in  tlie 
direction  of  the  line  6  to  7,  and  the  brisket  from  8  to  9.  The  carver  should 
always  ascertain  whether  the  guest  prefers  ribs,  brisket  or  a  piece  of  the  shoulder. 


' 


14 


HAM. 


HAM. 

The  carver  in  cutting  a  ham  must  be  guided  according  as  he  desires  to  prac- 
tise economy,  or  have  at  once  fine  slices  out  of  the  prime  part.  Under  the  first 
supposition,  he  will  commence  at  the  knuckle  end,  and  cut  off  thin  slices  towards 
the  thick  and  upper  part  of  the  ham. 

To  reach  the  choicer  portion  of  the  ham,  the  knife,  which  must  be  very  sharp 
and  thin,  should  be  carried  quite  down  to  the  bone  through  the  thick  fat  in  the 
direction  of  the  line,  from  1  to  2.  The  slices  should  be  even  and  thin,  cutting 
both  lean  and  fat  together,  always  cutting  down  to  the  bone.  Some  cut  a  circu- 
lar hole  in  the  middle  of  a  ham  gradually  enlarging  it  outwardly.  Then  again 
many  carve  a  ham  by  first  cutting  from  1  to  2,  then  across  the  other  way  from 
3  to  4.  Bemove  the  skin  after  the  ham  is  cooked  and  send  to  the  table  with 
dots  of  dry  pepper  or  dry  mustard  on  the  top,  a  tuft  of  fringed  paper  twisted 
about  the  knuckle,  and  plenty  of  fresh  parsley  aroimd  the  dish.  This  will  always 
ensure  an  inviting  appearance. 

Boast  Pig.— The  modem  way  of  serving  a  pig  is  not  to  send  it  to  the  table 
whole,  but  have  it  carved  partially  by  the  cook;  first,  by  dividing  the  shoulder 
from  the  body;  then  the  leg  in  the  same  manner;  also  separating  the  ribs  into 
convenient  portions.  The  head  may  be  divided  and  placed  on  the  same  plat- 
ter.   To  be  served  as  hot  as  possible. 

A  Spare  Rib  of  Pork  is  carved  by  cutting  slices  from  the  fleshy  part,  after 
which  the  bones  should  be  disjointed  and  separated. 

A  leg  of  pork  may  be  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a  ham. 


HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 


A  haunch  o£  venison  is  the_prj7ne  joint,  and  is  carved  very  similar  to  almost 
any  roasted  or  boiled  leg;  it  should  be  first  cut  crosswise  down  to  the  bone  fol- 
lowing the  line  from  1  to  2;  then  turn  the  platter  with  the  knuckle  farthest 
from  you,  put  in  the  point  of  the  knife,  and  cut  down  as  far  as  you  can,  in  the 
directions  shown  by  the  dotted  lines  from  3  to  4  then  there  can;  be  taken  out  as 
many  slices  as  is  required  on  the  right  and  left  of  this.  Slices  of  venison  should 
be  cut  thin,  and  gravy  given  witii  them,  but  as  there  is  a  spedal  sauce  made 
with  red  wine  and  currant  jelly  to  accompany  this  meat,  do  not  serve  gravy 
before  asking  the  guest  if  he  pleases  to  have  any. 

The  fat  of  this  meat  is  like  mutton,  apt  to  cool  soon,  and  become  hard  and 
disagreeable  to  the  palate;  it  should  therefore  be  served  always  on  warm  plates, 
and  the  platter  kept  over  a  hot-water  dish,  or  spirit  lamp.  Many  cooks  dish  it 
up  with  a  wbite  paper  frill  pined  around  the  knuckle-bone. 

A  haunch  of  mutton  is  carved  the  same  as  a  haunch  of  venison. 


M 


TURKEY. 

A  turl  oy  having  been  relieved  from  strings  and  skewers  used  in  trussing 
should  be  placed  on  the  table  with  the  head  or  neck  at  the  carver's  right  hand. 
An  expert  carver  places  the  fork  in  the  turkey,  and  does  not  remove  it  until  the 
whole  is  divided.  Krst  insert  the  fork  firmly  in  the  lower  part  of  the  breast, 
just  forward  of  fig.  2,  then  sever  the  legs  and  wings  on  both  sides,  if  the  whole 
is  to  be  carved,  cutting  neatly  through  the  joint  next  to  the  body,  letting  these 
parts  lie  on  the  platter.  Next,  cut  downward  from  the  breast  from  2  to  3,  as 
many  even  slices  of  the  white  meat  as  may  be  desired,  placing  the  pieces  neatly 
on  one  side  of  the  platter.  Now  unjoint  the  legs  and  wings  at  the  middle  joint, 
which  can  be  done  very  skillfully  by  a  little  practice.  Make  an  opening  into  the 
cavity  of  the  turkey  for  dipping  out  the  inside  dressing,  by  cutting  a  piece  from 
the  rear  part  1, 1,  called  the  apron.  Consult  the  tastes  of  the  guests  as  to  which 
part  is  preferred;  if  no  choice  is  expressed,  serve  a  portion  of  both  light  and  dai-k 
meat.  One  of  the  most  delicate  parts  of  the  turkey,  are  two  little  muscles,  ly- 
ing in  small  dish-like  cavities  on  each  side  of  the  back,  a  httle  behind  the  leg 
attachments;  the  next  most  delicate  meat  fills  the  cavities  in  the  neck  bone,  and 
next  to  this,  that  on  the  second  joints.  The  lower  part  of  the  leg  (or  drum- 
stick, as  it  is  called)  being  hard,  tough,  and  stringy  is  rarely  ever  helped  to  any 
one,  but  allowed  to  remain  on  the  dish. 


-aisHBt^^^ 


ROAST  GOOSE— FO  WLS.  I  ^ 


ROAST  GOOSE. 

To  carve  a  goose,  first  begin  by  separating  the  leg  from  the  body,  by  putting 
the  fork  into  the  small  end  of  the  limb,  pressing  it  closely  to  the  body,  then 
passing  the  knife  under  at  2,  and  turning  the  leg  back  as  you  cut  through  the 
joint.  To  take  off  the  wing,  insert  the  fork  in  the  small  end  of  the  pinion,  and 
press  it  close  to  the  body;  put  the  knife  in  at  figure  1,  and  divide  the  joint. 
When  the  legs  and  wings  are  oflf,  the  breast  may  be  carved  in  long  even  slices, 
as  represented  in  the  lines  from  1  to  2.  The  back  and  lower  side  bones,  as  well 
as  the  two  lower  side  bones  by  the  wing,  may  be  cut  off;  but  the  best  pieces  of 
the  goose  are  the  breast  and  thighs,  after  being  separated  from  the  drum-sticks. 
Serve  a  Uttle  of  the  dressing  from  the  inside,  by  making  a  circular  shoe  in  the 
apron  at  figure  3.  A  goose  should  never  be  over  a  year  old;  a  tough  goose  is 
very  difficult  to  carve,  and  certainly  most  difficult  to  eat 

FOWLS. 

First  insert  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  and  cut  to  the  bone; 
then  turn  the  leg  back  with  the  fork,  and  if  the  fowl  is  tender  the  joint  will  give 
away  easily.  The  wing  is  broken  oflf  the  same  way,  only  dividing  the  joint  with 
the  knife,  in  the  direction  from  1  to  2.  The  four  quarters  having  been  removed 
in  this  way,  take  oflf  the  merry-thought  and  the  neck-bones;  these  last  are  to  bo 
removed  by  putting  the  knife  in  at  figure  3  and  4,  pressing  it  hard,  when  they 
will  break  off  from  the  part  that  sticks  to  the  breast.  To  separate  the  breast 
from  the  body  of  the  fowl,  cut  through  the  tender  ribs  close  to  the  breast,  quite 
down  to  the  tail.  Now  turn  the  fowl  over,  back  upwards;  put  the  knife  into 
the  bone  midway  between  the  neck  and  the  rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end 
it  will  separate  readily.  Turn  now  the  rump  from  you,  and  take  off  very  neatly 
the  two  side-bones  and  the  fowl  is  carved.  In  separating  the  thigh  from  the 
drum-stick,  the  knife  must  be  inserted  exactly  at  the  joint,  for  if  not  accurately 
hit,  some  difficulty  will  be  experienced  to  get  them  apart;  this  is  easily  acquired 
by  practice.  There  is  no  difference  in  carving  roast  and  boiled  fowls  if  full 
grown;  but  in  very  young  fowls,  the  breast  is  usually  served  whole;  the  wings 
and  breast  are  considered  the  best  part,  but  m  young  ones  the  legs  are  the  most 
juicy.  In  the  case  of  a  capon  or  large  fowl,  slices  may  be  cut  off  at  the  breast, 
the  same  as  carving  a  pheasant. 


ROAST  DUCK— PARTRIDGES. 


ROAST  DUCK. 

A  young  ducklii^  may  be  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl,  the  \&^  and 
"wings  beiog  taken  off  first  on  either  side.  When  the  duck  is  full  size,  carve  it 
like  a  goose;  first  cutting  it  in  slices  from  the  hreast,  beginning  close  to  the 
wing  and  proceeding  upward  towards  the  breast  bone,  as  is  represented  by  the 
lines  1  to  2.  An  opening  may  be  made,  by  cutting  out  a  circular  slice  as  shown 
by  the  dotted  lines  at  number  3. 

Some  are  fond  of  the  feet,  and  when  dressing  the  duck,  these  should  be 
neatly  skinned  and  never  removed.  Wild  duck  is  highly  esteemed  by  epicures; 
it  is  trussed  like  a  tame  duck,  and  carved  in  the  same  manner,  the  breast  being 
the  choicest  part. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Partridges  are  generally  cleaned  and  trussed  the  same  way  as  a  pheasant,  but 
the  custom  of  cooking  them  with  the  heads  on  is  going  into  disuse  somewhat. 
The  usual  way  of  carving  them  is  similar  to  a  pigeon,  dividing  it  into  two  equal 
parts.  Another  method  is  to  cut  it  into  three  pieces,  by  severing  a  wing  and 
1^  on  either  side  from  the  body,  by  following  the  lines  1  to  2,  thus  making  two 
servings  of  those  parts,  leaving  the  breast  for  a  third  plate.  The  third  method 
is  to  thrust  back  the  body  from  the  legs,  and  cut  through  the  middle  of  the 
breast,  thus  making  four  portions  that  may  be  served.  Grouse  and  prairie- 
chicken  are  carved  from  the  breast  when  they  are  laige,  and  quartered  or 
halved  when  of  medium  size. 


FHEA  SANT— PIGEONS. 


^9 


PHEASANT. 

Place  yoxir  fork  firmly  in  the  centre  of  the  breast  of  this  large  game  bird  and 
cut  deep  slices  to  the  bone  at  figures  1  and  2;  then  take  off  the  leg  in  the  line 
from  3  and  4  and  the  wing  3  and  5,  severing  both  sides  the  same.  In  taking  off 
the  wings,  be  careful  not  to  cut  too  near  the  neck;  if  you  do  you  will  hit  upon 
the  neck-bone,  from  which  the  wing  must  be  separated.  Pass  the  knife  through 
the  line  6,  and  under  the  merry- thought  towards  the  neck,  which  will  detach  it. 
Cut  the  other  parts  as  in  a  fowl.  The  breast,  wings,  and  merry-thought  of  a 
pheasant,  are  the  most  highly  prized,  although  the  legs  are  considered  very 
finely  flavored.  Pheasants  are  frequently  roasted  with  the  bead  left  on;  in  that 
case,  when  dressing  them,  bring  the  head  round  under  the  wing,  and  fix  it  on  the 
point  of  a  skewer. 

PIGEONS 

A  very  good  way  of  carving  these  birds  is  to  insert  the  knife  at  figure  1,  and 
cut  both  ways  to  2  and  3,  when  each  portion  may  be  divided  into  two  pieces, 
then  served.  Pigeons,  if  not  too  large,  may  be  cut  in  halves,  either  across  or 
dovni  the  middle,  cutting  them  into  two  equal  parts;  if  young  and  small  they 
may  be  served  entirely  whole. 

Tame  pigeons  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are  killed,  as 
they  very  quickly  lose  their  flavor.  Wild  pigeons,  on  the  contrary,  should  hang 
a  day  or  two  in  a  cool  place  before  they  are  dressed.  Oranges  cut  into  halves 
are  used  as  a  garnish  for  dishes  of  small  birds,  such  as  pigeons,  quails,  woodcock, 
squabs,  snipe,  etc.  These  small  birds  are  either  served  whole  or  split  down  the 
back,  making  two  servings. 


MACKEREI^BOILED  SALMON. 


MACKEREL. 

The  mackerel  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  fish,  being  known  by  their 
silvery  whiteness.  It  sometimes  attains  to  the  length  of  twenty  inches,  but 
usually,  when  fully  grown,  is  about  fourteen  or  sixteen  inches  long,  and  about 
two  pounds  in  weight.  To  carve  a  baked  mackerel,  first  remove  the  head  and 
tail  by  cutting  downward  at  i  and  2;  then  split  them  down  the  back,  so  as 
to  serve  each  person  a  part  of  each  side  piece.  The  ix>e  should  be  divided  in 
small  pieces  and  served  with  each  piece  of  fish.  Other  whole  fish  may  be  carved 
in  the  same  manner.  The  fish  is  laid  upon  a  little  sauce  or  folded  napkin,  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  garnished  with  parsley. 

BOILED  SALMON. 
This  fish  is  seldom  sent  to  the  table  whole,  being  too  Lirge  for  any  ordinary 
sized  famfly;  the  middle  cut  is  considered  the  choicest  to  boil.  To  carve  it,  first 
run  the  knife  down  and  along  the  upper  side  of  the  fish  from  1  to  2,  then  again 
on  the  lower  side  from  3  to  4.  Serve  the  thick  part-,  cutting  it  lengthwise  in 
slices  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  1  to  2,  and  the  thin  part  breadthwise,  or 
in  the  direction  from  5  to  6.  A  sUce  of  the  thick  with  one  of  the  thin,  where 
lies  the  fat,  should  be  served  to  each  guest.  Care  should  be  taken  when  carv- 
ing not  to  break  the  flakes  of  the  fish,  as  that  iinpalrs  its  appearance.  The 
flesh  of  the  salmon  is  rich  and  dehcious  in  flavor.  Salmon  is  in  season 
from  the  flrst  of  February  to  the  end  of  August. 


^  CN(g>itt/3)/o 


Consomm6,  or  Stock,  forms  the  basis  of  all  meat  soups,  and  also  of  all  princi- 
pal  sauces.  It  is,  therefore,  essential  to  the  success  of  these  culinary  operations 
to  know  the  most  complete  and  economical  method  of  extracting  from  a  certain 
quantity  of  meat  the  best  possible  stock  or  broth.  Fresh  micooked  beef  makes 
the  best  stock,  with  the  addition  of  cracked  bones,  as  the  glutinous  matter  con- 
tained in  them  renders  it  important  that  they  should  be  boiled  with  the  meat, 
which  adds  to  the  strength  and  thickness  of  the  soup.  They  are  composed  of 
an  earthy  substance — to  which  they  owe  their  soUdity — of  gelatine,  and  a  fatty 
fluid,  something  like  marrow.  Tivo  ounces  of  them  contain  as  much  gelatine 
as  one  pound  of  meat;  but  in  them,  this  is  so  encased  in  the  earthy  substance, 
that  boiling  water  can  dissolve  only  the  surface  of  the  whole  bones,  but  by 
breaking  them  they  can  be  dissolved  more.  When  there  is  an  abundance  of  it, 
it  causes  the  stock,  when  cold,  to  become  a  jelly.  The  flesh  of  old  animals 
contains  more  flavor  than  the  flesh  of  young  ones.  Brown  meats  contain  more 
flavor  than  white. 

Mutton  is  too  strong  in  flavor  for  good  stock,  while  veal,  although  quite 
glutinous,  f mnishes  very  Uttle  nutriment. 

Some  cooks  use  meat  that  has  once  been  cooked;  this  renders  little  nourish- 
ment and  destroys  the  flavor.  It  might  answer  for  ready  soup,  but  for  stock  to 
keep  it  is  not  as  good,  unless  it  should  be  roasted  meats.  Those  contain  higher 
fragrant  properties;  so  by  putting  the  remains  of  roast  meats  in  the  stock-pot 
you  obtain  a  better  flavor. 

The  shin  bone  is  generally  used,  but  the  neck  or  "sticking  piece,''  as  the 
butchers  call  it,  contains  more  of  the  substance  that  you  want  to  extract,  makes 
a  stronger  and  more  nutritious  soup,  than  any  other  part  of  the  animal.  Meats 
for  soup  should  always  be  put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water,  in  a  covered  pot,  and 
allowed  to  simmer  slowly  for  several  hours,  in  order  that  the  essence  of  the 
meat  may  be  drawn  out  thoroughly,  and  should  be  carefully  skimmed  to  pre- 


22  SOUJPS. 

vent  it  from  becoming  turbid,  never  allowed  to  boil  fast  at  any  time,  and  if  more 
water  is  needed,  use  boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle;  cold  or  lukewarm  water 
spoils  the  flavor.  Never  salt  it  before  the  meat  is  tender  (as  that  hardens  and 
toughens  the  meat),  especially  if  the  meat  is  to  be  eaten.  Take  off  every  parti- 
cle of  scum  as  it  rises,  and  before  the  vegetables  are  put  in.   , 

Allow  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat  and  bone,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  done,  strain  through  a  colander.  If  for  clear  soups 
strain  again  through  a  hair  sieve,  or  fold  a  dean  towel  in  a  colander  set  over 
an  earthen  bowl,  or  any  dish  large  enough  to  hold  the  stock.  As  stated  before, 
stock  is  not  as  good  when  made  entirely  from  cooked  meats,  but  in  a  family 
where  it  requires  a  large  joint  roasted  every  day,  the  bones  and  bits  and  under- 
done pieces  of  beef,  or  the  bony  structure  of  turkey  or  chicken  that  has  been 
left  from  carving,  bones  of  roasted  poultry,  these  all  assist  in  imparting  a  rich 
dark  color  to  soup,  and  would  be  sufficient,  if  stewed  as  above,  to  furnish  a 
family,  without  buying  fresh  meat  for  the  purpose;  still,  with  the  addition  of  a 
little  fresh  meat  it  would  be  more  nutritious.  In  cold  weather  you  can  gather 
them  up  for  several  days  and  put  them  to  cook  in  cold  water,  and  when  done, 
strain,  and  put  aside  until  needed. 

Soup  will  be  as  good  the  second  day  as  the  first  if  heated  to  the  boiling 
point.  It  should  never  be  left  in  the  pot,  but  should  be  turned  into  a  dish  or 
shallow  pan,  and  set  aside  to  get  cold.  Never  cover  it  up,  as  that  will  cause  it 
to  turn  sour  very  quickly. 

Before  heating  a  second  time,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  top.  If  this  be 
melted  in,  the  flavor  of  the  soup  will  certainly  be  spoiled. 

Thickened  soups  require  nearly  double  the  seasoning  used  for  thin  soups  or 
broth. 

Coloring  is  used  in  some  brown  soups,  the  chief  of  which  is  brown  burnt 
sugar,  which  is  known  as  caramel  by  French  cooks. 

Pounded  spinach  leaves  give  a  fine  green  color  to  soup.  Parsley,  or  the 
green  leaves  of  celery,  put  in  soup  will  serve  instead  of  spinach. 

Pound  a  large  handful  of  spinach  in  a  mortar,  then  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and 
wring  out  all  the  juice;  put  this  in  the  soup  you  wish  to  color  green,  five  min- 
utes before  taking  it  up. 

Mock  turtle,  and  sometimes  veal  and  lamb  soups,  should  be  this  color. 

Ochras  gives  a  green  color  to  soup. 

To  color  soup  red,  skin  six  red  tomatoes,  squeeze  out  the  seeds  and  put  them 
into  the  soup  with  the  other  vegetables— or  take  the  juice  only  as  directed  for 
spinach. 


SOUFS. 


23 


For  white  soups,  which  are  of  veal,  lamb  or  chicken,  none  but  white  vegeta- 
bles are  used;  rice,  pearl  barley,  vermicelli,  or  macaroni  for  thickening. 

Grated  carrot  gives  a  fine  amber  color  to  soup;  it  must  be  put  in  as  soon  as 
the  soup  is  free  from  scum. 

Hotel  and  private-house  stock  is  quite  different. 

Hotels  use  meat  in  such  large  quantities,  that  there  is  always  more  or 
less  trimmings  and  bones  of  meat  to  add  to  fresh  meats;  that  makes  very 
strong  stock,  which  they  use  in  most  all  soups  and  gravies  and  other  made 
dishes. 

The  meat  from  which  soup  has  been  made  is  good  to  serve  cold  thus:  take 
out  all  the  bones,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  catsup,  if  hked,  then  chop 
it  small,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and  lay  it  between  two  plates,  with  a  weight  on  the 
upper  one;  slice  it  thin  for  luncheon  or  supper;  or  make  sandwiches  of  it;  or 
make  a  hash  for  breakfast;  or  make  it  into  balls,  with  the  addition  of  a  Uttle 
wheat  flour  and  an  egg,  and  serve  them  fried  in  fat,  or  boil  in  the  soup. 

An  agreeable  flavor  is  sometimes  imparted  to  soup  by  sticking  some  cloves 
into  the  meat  used  for  making  stock;  a  few  slices  of  onions  fried  very  brown 
in  butter  are  nice;  also  floiu*  browned  by  simply  putting  it  into  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  and  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  is  a  dark  brown. 

Clear  soups  must  be  perfectly  transparent  and  thickened  soups  about  the 
consistence  of  cream.  When  soups  and  gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day  in  hot 
weather,  they  should  be  warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into  fresh-scalded  paus 
or  tureens,  and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar.  In  temperate  weather,  every  other  day 
may  be  sufficient. 


HERBS  AND  VEGETABLES  USED  IN  SOUPS. 

Of  vegetables  the  principal  ones  are  can-ots,  tomatoes,  asparagus,  green  peas, 
okra,  macaroni,  green  com,  beans,  rice,  vermicelli,  Scotch  barley,  pearl  barley, 
wheat  flour,  mushroom  or  mushroom  catsup,  parsnips,  beet-root,  turnips,  leeks, 
garUc,  shalots  and  onions;  sliced  onions  fried  with  butter  and  flour  until  they 
are  browned,  then  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  are  excellent  to  heighten  the  color  and 
flavor  of  brown  sauces  and  soups.  The  herbs  usually  used  in  soups  are  parsley, 
common  thyme,  summer  savory,  knotted  marjoram,  and  other  seasonings  such 
as  bay-leaves,  tarragon,  allspice,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves,  mace,  black  and 
white  pepper,  red  pepper,  lemon-peel  and  juice,  orange  peel  and  juice.  The 
latter  imparts  a  finer  flavor  and  the  acid  much  milder.  These  materials,  with 
wine,  and  the  various  catsups,  combined  in  various  proportions,  are,  with  other 
ingredients,  made  into  almost  an  endless  variety  of  excellent  soups  and  gravies* 


24  SOUPS. 

Soups  that  are  inteiided  for  the  principal  part  of  a  meal  certamlj  ought  not  to 
be  flavored  like  sauces,  which  are  only  intended  to  give  relish  to  some  particular 
dish« 

STOCK. 

Six  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  or  six  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal;  any  bones,  trim- 
mings of  poultry,  or  fresh  meat;  one-quarter  pound  of  lean  bacon  or  ham,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  two  large  onions,  each  stuck  with  cloves;  one  turnip,  three 
carrots,  one  head  of  celery,  two  ounces  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  whole 
I)epper,  one  large  blade  of  mace,  one  bunch  of  savory  herbs  except  sage,  four 
quarts  and  one-half  pint  of  cold  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat  and  bacon,  or  ham,  into  pieces  of  about  three  inches 
square;  break  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  rub  the  butter  on  the  bottom  of  the 
stewpan;  put  in  one-half  a  pint  of  water,  the  broken  bones,  then  meat  and  all 
other  ingredients.  Cover  the  stewpan,  and  place  it  on  a  sharp  fire,  occasionally 
stirring  its  contents.  When  the  bottom  of  the  pan  becomes  covered  with  a  pale, 
jelly-like  substance,  add  the  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  very  gently 
for  five  or  six  hours.  As  we  have  said  before,  do  not  let  it  boil  quickly.  When 
nearly  cooked,  throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  assist  the  scum  to  rise.  Be- 
move  every  particle  of  scum  whilst  it  is  doing,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve;  when  cool  remove  all  grease.  This  stock  will  keep  for  many  days  in  cold 
weather. 

Stock  is  the  basis  of  many  of  the  soups  afterwards  mentioned,  and  this  will 
be  foimd  quite  strong  enough  for  ordinary  purposes.  Keep  it  in  small  jars,  in  a 
cool  place.  It  makes  a  good  gravy  for  hash  meats;  one  tablespoonful  of  it  is 
sufficient  to  impart  a  fine  flavor  to  a  dish  of  macaroni  and  various  other  dishes. 
Good  soups  of  various  kinds  are  made  from  it  at  short  notice;  slice  off  a  portion 
of  the  jelly,  add  water,  and  whatever  vegetables  and  thickening  preferred.  It  is 
best  to  partly  cook  the  vegetables  before  adding  to  the  stock,  as  much  boiling 
injures  the  flavoring  of  the  soup.  Season  and  boil  a  few  moments  and  serve 
hot. 

WHITE  STOCK. 

White  stock  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  white  soups,  and  is  made  by  boil- 
ing six  pounds  of  a  knuckle  of  veal,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  poultry  trimmings, 
and  four  sUces  of  lean  ham.  Proceed  according  to  directions  given  in  "  Stock,  '^ 
above. 


SOUPS.  25 

TO  CLARIFY  STOCK. 

Place  the  stock  in  a  clean  saucepan,  set  it  over  a  brisk  fire.  When  boiling,  add 
the  white  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  of  stock,  proceeding  as  follows:  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  up  well  in  a  little  water;  then  add  a  little  hot  stock;  beat  to 
a  froth,  and  pour  gradually  into  the  pot;  then  beat  the  whole  hard  and  long; 
allow  it  to  boil  up  once,  and  immediately  remove  and  strain  through  a  thin  flan- 
nel cloth. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Select  a  small  shin  of  beef  of  moderate  size,  crack  the  bone  in  small  pieces, 
wash  and  place  it  in  a  kettle  to  boil,  with  five  or  six  quarts  of  cold  water.  Let 
it  boil  about  two  hours,  or  until  it  begins  to  get  tender,  then  season  it  with  a. 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  boil  it  one  hour  longer,  then 
add  to  it  one  carrot,  two  turnips,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  or  pearl  barley,  one 
head  of  celery  aud  a  teaspoonful  of  summer  savoiy  powdered  fine;  the  vegetables 
to  be  minced  up  in  small  pieces  like  dice.  After  these  ingredients  have  boiled 
a  quarter  of  an  horn*,  put  in  two  potatoes  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  let  it  boil  half 
an  hour  longer,  take  the  meat  from  the  soup,  and  if  intended  to  be  served  with 
it,  take  out  the  bones  and  lay  it  closely  and  neatly  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley. 

Serve  made  mustard  and  catsup  with  it.  It  is  very  nice  pressed  and  eaten 
cold  with  mustard  and  vinegar,  or  catsup.  Four  hours  are  required  for  making 
this  soup.  Should  any  remain  over  the  first  day,  it  may  be  heated,  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  boiling  water,  and  served  again.  Some  fancy  a  glass  of  brown 
sherry  added  just  before  being  served.     Serve  very  hot. 

VEAL  SOUP.    (Excellent.) 

Put  a  knuckle  of  veaJ  into  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  a  small  quantity 
of  salt,  and  one  small  tablespoonful  of  imcooked  rice.  Boil  slowly,  hardly 
above  simmering,  four  hours,  when  the  liquor  should  be  reduced  to  half  the 
usual  quantity;  remove  from  the  fire.  Into  the  tureen  put  the  yolk  of  one  egg, 
and  stir  well  into  it  a  teacupful  of  cream,  or,  in  hot  weather,  new  milk;  add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  si/,e  of  a  hickory  nut;  on  this  strain  the  soup,  boiling  hot, 
stirring  all  the  time.        ist  at  the  last,  beat  it  well  for  a  minute. 

•VIUTTON  BROTH. 

Six  pounds  iv;  <;  quarts  water,  five  carrots,  five  tiunips,  two 

onions,  four  tablesj^w      ais  barley,  a  little  salt.    Soak  mutton  in  water  for  an 


26  SOUPS. 

hour,  cut  off  scrag,  and  put  it  in  stewpan  with  three  quarts  of  water.  As  soon 
as  it  boils,  stdm  well,  and  then  simmer  for  one  and  one-half  hours  Cut  best 
end  of  mutton  into  cutlets,  dividing  it  with  two  bones  in  each;  take  off  nearly 
all  fat  before  you  put  it  into  broth;  skim  the  moment  the  meat  boils,  and  every 
ten  minutes  afterwards;  add  carrots,  turnips  and  onions,  all  cut  into  two  or  three 
pieces,  then  put  them  into  soup  soon  enough  to  be  thoroughly  done;  stir  in  bar* 
ley;  add  salt  to  taste;  let  all  stew  together  for  three  and  one-half  hours:  about 
one-half  hour  before  sending  it  to  table,  put  in  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Cut  the  mes^t  off  the  scrag  into  small  pieces,  and  send  it  to  table  in  the  tureen 
with  the  soup.  The  other  half  of  the  mutton  should  be  served  on  a  separate 
dish,  with  whole  turnips  boiled  and  laid  round  it.  Many  persons  are  fond  of 
mutton  that  has  been  boiled  in  soup. 

You  may  thicken  the  soup  with  rice  or  barley  that  has  first  been  soaked  in 
cold  water;  or  with  green  peas;  or  with  young  com,  cut  down  from  the  cob; 
or  with  tomatoes  scalded,  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces. 

GAME  SOUP. 

Two  grouse  or  partridges,  or,  if  you  have  neither,  use  a  pair  of  rabbits;  half 
a  pound  of  lean  ham;  two  medium-sized  onions;  one  poimd  of  lean  beef;  fried 
bread;  butter  for  frying;  pepper,  salt,  and  two  stalks  of  white  celery  cut  into 
inch  lengths;  three  quarts  of  water. 

Joint  your  game  neatly;  cut  the  ham  and  onicns  into  small  pieces,  and  fry 
all  in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Put  into  a  soup-pot  with  the  beef,  cut  into  strips, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Pour  on  the  water;  heat  slowly,  and  stew  gently  two  hours. 
Take  out  the  pieces  of  bird,  and  cover  in  a  bowl;  cook  the  soup  an  hour  longer; 
strain;  cool;  drop  in  the  celery,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Pour  upon  fried 
bread  in  the  tureen. 

Venison  soup  made  the  same,  with  the  addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
flour  wet  into  a  paste  with  cold  water,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup,  Worces- 
tershire, or  other  pungent  sauce,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  brown  sherry. 

WHITE  MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

A  knuckle  of  veal  and  a  scant  quart  of  water  to  each  poimd  that  it  weighs, 

and,  if  the  flavor  is  not  objected  to,  a  slice  of  boiled  or  scalded  ham.    (Be  sure, 

if  you  use  xmboiled  ham,  to  remove  rind  and  trim  away  the  dark  edges.)    If  the 

knuckle  weighs  four  poimds,  use  a  medium-sized  carrot,  ttimip,  onion,  two 

cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  two  large  sprigs  of  parsley  (and  two  of  thyme  if  you  have  it.) 


SOUPS.  27 

Put  the  four  quarts  of  water  to  the  veal,  which  should  have  been  gashed 
well  and  the  bone  broken  in  several  places  before  it  is  put  into  the  pot.  Let  it 
come  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  skim  it  carefully.  When  it  boils  put 
in  the  vegetables  and,  just  as  it  again  boils,  skim  again,  and  then  set  the  pot 
back.  Watch  it  for  a  time  till  you  find  out  where  it  will  just  boil  and  no  more. 
This  point  is  indicated  by  a  bubble  rising  in  the  centre  of  the  pot  and  breaking 
every  few  seconds.  This  is  what  is  meant  by  slow  boiUng;  and  soup  of  any 
kind,  made  in  this  way,  will  have  a  finer  flavor  than  if  allowed  to  boil  quickly 
and  be  quite  clear.     When  this  has  boiled  five  hours  strain  it  through  muslin. 

While  this  stock  is  being  made  put  into  a  saucepan  four  tablespoonf uls  of  flour 
and  four  of  butter.  Stir  them  till  they  bubble.  Let  them  cook  together  for  a 
minute,  stirring  the  while.  Then  pour  into  them  quickly,  and  still  stirring,  two 
quarts  of  the  hot  veal  stock.  Let  them  boil  together  one  minute.  This  is  now 
like  thick,  smooth,  white  sauce.  Stir  into  it  two  quarts  of  boiled  new  milk, 
and,  if  you  have  it,  a  pint  of  sweet  thick  cream.  Stir  these  together,  but  do 
not  boil  them.  Next  day  make  the  soup  boiUng  hot,  skim  it,  and  put  into  it  a 
can  of  French  mushrooms  with  the  Uquor,  and  two  teaspoonf uls  of  salt,  and  half 

a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper.     Do  not  let  it  boil  more  than  once  or  it  may 
curdle. 

This  will  make  nine  pints  of  soup.  If  more  is  required,  increase  milk,  butter, 
and  flour,  etc. ,  in  the  proportion  of  one  oimce  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  to  each 
quart  of  soup,  and  one  quart  of  milk  to  each  quart  of  stock. 

CHICKEN  CREAM  SOUP. 

An  old  chicken  for  soup  is  much  the  best.  Cut  it  up  into  quarters,  put  it 
into  a  soup  kettle  with  half  a  poimd  of  corned  ham,  and  an  onion;  add  four 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to  a  gentle  boil,  and  keep  this  up  until  the 
liquid  has  diminished  one-third,  and  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones;  then  add 
half  a  cup  of  rice.     Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bimch  of  chopped  parsley. 

Cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender,  then  the  meat  should  be  taken  out. 
Now,  stir  in  two  cups  of  rich  milk  thickened  with  a  Uttle  flour.  The  chicken 
could  be  fried  in  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  gravy  made,  reserving  some  of  the 
white  part  of  the  meat,  chopping  it  and  adding  it  to  the  soup. 

PLAIN  ECONOMICAL  SOUP. 

Take  a  cold-roast-beef  bone,  pieces  of  beef -steak,  the  rack  of  a  cold  turkey  or 
chicken.  Put  them  into  a  pot  with  three  or  four  quarts  of  water,  two  carrots, 
three  turnips,  one  onion,  a  few  cloves,  pepper  and  salt.     Boil  the  whole  gently 


28  SOUFS. 

four  hours;  then  strain  it  through  a  colander^  mashing  the  vegetables  so  that 
they  will  all  pass  through.  Skim  oflf  the  fat,  and  return  the  soup  to  the  pot. 
Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  two  of  water,  stir  it  into  the  soup  and  boil 
the  whole  ten  ininutes.     Serve  this  soup  with  sippets  of  toast. 

Sippets  are  bits  of  dry  toast  cut  into  a  triangular  form. 

A  seasonable  dish  about  the  holidays. 

OX-TAIL  SOUP. 

Two  ox-tails,  two  shoes  of  ham,  one  ounce  of  butter,  two  carrots,  two  turnips^ 
three  onions,  one  leek,  one  head  of  celery,  one  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  pepper,  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  catsup,  one-half  glass  of  port  wine, 
three  quarts  of  water. 

Cut  up  the  tails,  separating  them  at  the  joints;  wash  them,  and  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  butter.  Cut  the  vegetables  in  shoes  and  add  them  with 
the  herbs.  Put  in  one-half  pint  of  water,  and  stir  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  the 
juices  are  drawn.  Fill  up  the  stewpan  with  water,  and  when  boiling,  add  the  salt. 
Skim  well,  and  simmer  very  gently  for  four  hours,  or  until  the  tails  are  tender. 
Take  them  out,  skim  and  strain  the  soup,  thicken  with  flour,  and  flavor  with  the 
catsup  and  port  wine.    Put  back  the  tails,  simmer  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

Another  way  to  make  an  appetizing  ox- tail  soup.  You  should  begin  to  make  it 
the  day  before  you  wish  to  eat  the  soup.  Take  two  tails,  wash  clean,  and  put 
in  a  kettle  with  nearly  a  gallon  of  cold  water;  add  a  small  handful  of  salt; 
when  the  meat  is  well  cooked,  take  out  the  bones.  Let  this  stand  in  a  cool 
room,  covered,  and  next  day,  about  an  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner,  skim  off 
the  crust  or  cake  of  fat  which  has  risen  to  the  top.  Add  a  Uttle  onion,  carrot, 
or  any  vegetables  you  choose,  chopping  them  fine  first;  sxunmer  savory  may 
also  be  added. 

CORN  SOUP. 

Cut  the  com  from  the  cob,  aad  boil  the  cobs  in  water  for  at  least  an  hour, 
then  add  the  grains,  and  boil  until  they  are  thoroughly  done;  put  one  dozen 
ears  of  com  to  a  gallon  of  water,  which  will  be  reduced  to  three  quarts  by  the 
time  the  soup  is  done;  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  new  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste;  continue  the  boiling  a  while  longer,  and  stir  in,  to 
season  and  thicken  it  a  little,  a  tablespoonful  of  good  butter  rubbed  up  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Com  soup  may  also  be  made  nicely  with  water  in 
which  a  pair  of  grown  fowls  have  been  boiled  or  parboiled,  instead  of  having 
plain  water  for  the  foundation. 


SOUPS.  29 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP.    No.  i. 

Wash  well  a  pint  of  split  peas  and  cover  them  well  with  cold  water,  adding 
a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  let  them  remain  in  it  over  night  to  swell.  In 
the  morning  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  a  close  fitting  cover.  Pour  over  them 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  adding  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  or  bacon  cut  into 
slices  or  pieces;  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  and  some  celery 
chopped  fine.  When  the  soup  begins  to  boil,  skim  the  froth  from  the  siuf ace. 
Cook  slowly  from  three  to  four  hours,  stirring  occasionally  till  the  peas  are  all 
dissolved,  adding  a  little  more  boiling  water  to  keep  up  the  quantity  as  it  boils 
away.  Strain  through  a  colander,  and  leave  out  the  meat.  It  should  be  quite 
thick.  Serve  with  small  squares  of  toasted  bread,  cut  up  and  added.  If  not 
rich  enough,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP.    No.  2. 

One  pint  of  split  peas,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water  over  night;  wash  in 
cold  water  and  drain;  add  two-thirds  of  a  medium-sized  carrot  sliced;  one  onion 
quartered,  with  a  clove  stuck  into  each  piece;  two  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork  cut 
into  dice.  Make  a  bouquet  of  the  following  herbs:  one  sprig  of  parsley,  thyme, 
celery  and  one  bay  leaf  tied  together;  if  not  obtainable  use  one  half  teaspoonful 
of  celery  salt.  Put  on  altogether  over  a  brisk  fire  with  three  quarts  of  cold 
water.  When  it  boils  up,  set  back  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  about  three  hours 
or  until  done.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  strain  and  serve. 

— Frmn  Astor  House  Recipe, 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  a  small  quarter  of  lamb  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with 
six  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  a 
moderate  fire — let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  skim  it  clear;  add  a  quart 
of  shelled  peas,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an 
hour;  then  having  scraped  the  skins  from  a  quart  of  small  young  potatoes,  add 
them  to  the  soup;  cover  the  pot  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour  longer;  work 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour  together,  and  add 
them  to  the  soup  ten  or  twelve  minutes  before  taking  it  off  the  fire. 

Serve  the  meat  on  a  dish  with  parsley  sauce  over,  and  the  soup  in  a  tureen. 

DRIED  BEAN  SOUP. 

Put  two  quarts  of  dried  white  beans  to  soak  the  night  before  you  make  the 
soup,  which  should  be  put  on  as  early  in  the  day  as  possible. 


30  SOUPS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  the  lean  of  fresh  beef— the  coarse  pieces  will  do.  Out 
them  up,  and  put  them  into  your  soup-pot  with  the  bones  belonging  to  them, 
(which  should  be  broken  in  pieces,)  and  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  cut  very  smalL 
If  you  have  the  remains  of  a  piece  of  beef  that  has  been  roasted  the  day  before, 
and  so  much  under-done  that  the  juices  remain  in  it,  you  may  put  it  into  the 
pot  and  its  bones  along  with  it.  Season  the  meat  with  pepper  only,  and  pour 
on  it  six  quarts  of  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  take  off -the  scum,  and  put  in  the 
beans  (having  first  drained  them)  and  a  head  of  celery  cut  small,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  pounded  celery  seed.  Boil  it  slowly  till  the  meat  is  done  to  shreds, 
and  the  beans  all  dissolved.  Then  strain  it  through  a  colander  into  the  tureen, 
and  put  into  it  small  squares  of  toasted  bread  with  the  crust  cut  off. 

TURTLE  SOUP  FROM  BEANS. 

Soak  over  night  one  quart  of  black  beans;  next  day  boil  them  in  the  proper 
quantity  of  water,  say  a  gallon,  then  dip  the  beans  out  of  the  pot  and  strain 
them  through  a  colander.  Then  return  the  flour  of  the  beans,  thus  pressed,  into 
the  pot  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Tie  up  in  a  thin  cloth  some  thyme,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  summer  savory  and  parsley,  and  let  it  boil  in  the  mixture.  Add  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  cold  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  four  hard-boiled  yolks 
of  eggs  quartered,  and  a  few  force  meat  balls;  add  this  to  the  soup  with  a  shced 
lemon,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine  just  before  serving  the  soup. 

This  approaches  so  near  in  flavor  to  the  real  turtle  soup  that  few  are  able  to 
distinguish  the  difference. 

PHILADELPHIA  PEPPER  POT. 

Put  two  pounds  of  tripe  and  four  calves'  feet  into  the  soup-pot  and  cover 
them  with  cold  water;  add  a  red  pepper,  and  boil  closely  until  the  calves'  feet 
are  boiled  very  tender;  take  out  the  meat,  skim  the  liquid,  stir  it,  cut  the  tripe 
into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  back  into  the  liquid;  if  there  is  not  euough  hquid, 
add  boiling  water;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  and 
thyme,  two  sliced  onions,  shced  potatoes,  salt.  When  the  vegetables  have 
boiled  until  almost  tender,  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  drop  in  some  egg 
balls,  and  boU  fifteen  minutes  more.    Take  up  and  serve  hot. 

SQUIRREL  SOUP. 

Wash  and  quarter  three  or  four  good  sized  squirrels;  put  them  on,  with  a 
small  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt,  directly  after  breakfast,  in  a  gallon  of  cold  water. 


sours.  3 1 

Cover  the  pot  close,  and  set  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  to  simmer  gently, 
not  boil.  Add  vegetables  just  the  same  as  you  do  in  case  of  other  meat  soups 
in  the  summer  season,  but  especially  good  will  you  find  com,  Irish  potatoes, 
tomatoes  and  Lima  beans.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  coarse  colander  when  the 
meat  has  boiled  to  shreds,  so  as  to  get  rid  of  the  squirrel's  troublesome  Uttle 
bones.  Then  return  to  the  pot,  and  after  boiUng  a  while  longer,  thicken  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour.  Celery  and  parsley  leaves  chopped  up  are  also 
considered  an  improvement  by  many.  Toast  two  slices  of  bread,  cut  them  into 
dice  one  half  inch  square,  fry  them  in  butter,  put  them  into  the  bottom  of 
yoin:  tm:een,  and  then  pour  the  soup  boiling  hot  upon  them.    Very  good. 

TOMATO  SOUP.    No.  i. 

Place  in  a  kettle  four  pounds  of  beef.  Pom*  over  it  one  gallon  of  cold  water. 
Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  or  until  the  liquid  is  reduced 
to  about  one-half.  Remove  the  meat  and  put  into  the  broth  a  quart  of  tomatoes, 
and  one  chopped  onion;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  teaspoonful  of  flour  should 
be  dissolved  and  stirred  in,  then  allowed  to  boil  half  an  horn:  longer.  Strain 
and  serve  hot.    Canned  tomatoes,  in  place  of  fresh  ones,  may  be  used. 

TOMATO  SOUP.  No.  2. 

Place  over  the  fire  a  quart  of  peeled  tomatoes,  stew  them  soft  with  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Strain  it  so  that  no  seeds  remain,  set  it  over  the  fire  again,  and  add  a 
quart  of  hot  boiled  milk;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  cracker,  and  serve  hot.  Canned 
tomatoes  may  be  used  in  place  of  fresh  ones. 

TOMATO   SOUP.  No.  3. 

Peel  two  quarts  of  tomatoes,  boil  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  an  onion,  and 
other  soup  vegetables;  strain  and  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in 
a  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  very  hot  over 
little  squares  of  bread  fried  brown  and  crisp  in  butter. 

An  excellent  addition  to  a  cold  meat  lunch. 


MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP.    (As  made  in  India.) 

Cut  four  onions,  one  carrot,  two  turnips,  and  one  head  of  celery  into  three 
quarts  of  liquor,  in  which  one  or  two  fowls  have  been  boiled;  keep  it  over  a  brisk 


32  SOUPS. 

fire,  till  it  boils,  then  place  it  on  a  comer  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  twenty  min- 
utes; add  one  tablespoonful  of  currie  powder,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  floxir;  mi-r 
the  whole  well  together,  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes;  pass  it  through  a  colander; 
serve  with  pieces  of  roast  chicken  in  it;  add  boiled  rice  in  a  separate  dish.  It 
must  be  of  good  yellow  color,  and  not  too  thick.  If  you  find  it  too  thick,  add  a 
little  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Half  veal  and  half  chicken  an- 
swers as  well. 

A  dish  of  rice,  to  be  served  separately  with  this  soup,  must  be  thus  prepared: 
put  three  pints  of  water  in  a  sauce-pan  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt;  let  this 
boil.  Wash  well,  in  three  waters,  half  a  poimd  of  rice;  strain  it,  and  put  it  into 
the  boiling  water  in  sauce-pan.  After  it  has  come  to  the  boil — which  it  will  do 
in  about  two  minutes— let  it  boil  twenty  minutes;  strain  it  through  a  colander, 
and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  This  will  separate  the  grains  of  rice. 
Put  it  back  in  the  sauce-pan,  and  place  it  near  the  fire  until  hot  enough  to  send 
to  the  table.  This  is  also  the  proper  way  to'  boil  rice  for  curries.  If  these  direc- 
tions are  strictly  carried  out  every  grain  of  the  rice  will  separate,  and  be  thor- 
oughly cooked. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP,  OF  CALF'S  HEAD. 

Scald  a  weU-cleansed  calf's  head,  remove  the  brain,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  an  hour,  or  until  the  meat  wiU  easily  slip  from  the  bone;  take  out,  save  the 
broth;  cut  it  in  small,  square  pieces,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water;  when 
cool,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  and  cover  with  sr  me  of  the  broth;  let  it  boil  until 
quite  tender,  and  set  aside. 

In  another  stewpan  melt  some  butter,  and  in  it  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
lean  ham,  cut  small,  with  fine  herbs  to  taste;  also  parsley  and  one  onion;  add 
about  a  pint  of  the  broth;  let  it  simmer  for  two  hours,  and  then  dredge  in  a 
small  quantity  of  flour;  now  add  the  remainder  of  the  broth,  and  a  quarter  bot- 
tle of  Madeira  or  sherry;  let  all  stew  quietly  for  ten  minutes  and  rub  it  through 
a  mediiun  sieve;  add  the  calf's  head,  season  with  a  very  httle  cayenne  pepper,  a 
little  salt,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  if  desired,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  pounded 
mace  and  a  dessert-spoon  sugar. 

Having  previously  prepared  force-meat  balls,  add  them  to  the  soup,  and  five 
minutes  after  serve  hot. 

GREEN  TURTLE  SOUP. 

One  turtle,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  juice  of  one  lemon,  five  quarts 
of  water,  a  glass  of  Madeira. 


SOUPS. 


33 


After  removing  the  entrails,  cut  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle  meat  and 
bones.  Add  four  quarts  of  water,  and  stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  onions, 
pepper  and  salt.  Stew  very  slowly,  do  not  let  it  cease  boiling  during  this  time. 
At  the  end  of  four  hours  strain  the  soup,  and  add  the  flbaer  parts  of  the  turtle 
and  the  green  fat,  which  has  been  simmered  one  hour  in  two  quarts  of  water. 
Thicken  with  brown  flour;  return  to  the  soup-pot,  and  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour  longer.  If  there  are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for 
four  hours,  and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  up.  K  not,  put  in  force-meat 
balls;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  the  wine;  beat  up  at  once  and  pour  out. 

Some  cooks  add  the  finer  meat  before  straining,  boiling  all  together  five 
hours;  then  strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the  green  fat,  cut  mto  lumps  an  inch 
long.     This  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than  if  the  meat  is  left  in. 

Green  turtle  can  now  be  purchased  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 

Force  Meat  Balls  for  the  Above, — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  turtle-meat  chopped 
very  fine.  Eub  to  a  paste,  with  the  yolk  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  tablespoon- 
f  ul  of  butter,  and,  if  convenient  a  little  oyster  Uquor.  Season  with  cayenne, 
mace,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bind  all  with 
a  well-beaten  egg;  shape  into  small  balls;  dip  in  egg,  then  powdered  cracker; 
fry  in  butter,  and  drop  into  the  soup  when  it  is  served. 


MACARONI  SOUP. 

To  a  rich  beef  or  other  soup,  in  which  there  is  no  seasoning  other  than  pep- 
per or  salt,  take  half  a  pound  of  small  pipe  macaroni,  boil  it  in  clear  water  until 
it  is  tender,  then  drain  it  and  cut  it  in  pieces  of  an  inch  length;  boil  it  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  the  soup  and  serve. 


TURKEY  SOUP. 

Take  the  turkey  bones  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  horn:  in  water  enough  to 
cover  them;  add  a  Uttle  siunmer  savory  and  celery  chopped  fine.  Just  before 
serving,  thicken  with  a  httle  flour  (browned),  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  smaU  piece  of  butter.  This  is  a  cheap  but  good  soup,  using  the  remains  of 
cold  turkey  which  might  otherwise  be  thrown  away. 

GUMBO  OR  OKRA  SOUP. 

Fry  out  the  fat  of  a  slice  of  bacon  or  fat  ham,  drain  it  off,  and  in  it  fry  the 

shoes  of  a  large  onion  brown;  scald,  peel,  and  cut  up  two  quarts  fresh  tomatoes, 

when  in  season,  (use  canned  tomatoes  otherwise),  and  cut  thin  one  quart  okra; 

3 


r:f  Jr.'   ■        ; 


34  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

pat  ihem,  together  with  a  Uttle  chopped  parsley,  in  a  stew-kettle  with  about 
three  quarts  of  hot  broth  of  any  kind;  cook  slowly  for  three  hours,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

In  chicken  broth  the  same  quantity  of  okra  pods,  used  for  thickening  instead 
of  tomatoes,  forms  a  chicken  gumbo  soup. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  white  stock;  one  pint  of  cream  or  milk;  one  onion;  two  stalks 
celery;  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  tapioca;  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  a  small  piece  of  mace;  salt,  pepper.  Wash  the  tapioca  and 
soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Cook,  it  and  the  stock  together  very  gently  for 
one  hour.  Cut  the  onion  and  celery  into  small  pieces,  and  put  on  to  cook  for 
twenty  minutes  with  the  milk  and  mace.  Strain  on  the  tapioca  and  stock. 
Season  with  salt  and  i)epper,  add  butter,  and  serve. 


Soups  Mitbout  ^eat 


ONION  SOUP- 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  large  onions,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  a  large  one  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  cream,  salt,  pepper.  Put  the  but- 
ter in  a  frying  pan.  Cut  the  onions  into  thin  slices  and  drop  in  the  butter.  Stir 
until  they  begin  to  cook;  then  cover  tight  and  set  back  where  they  will  sinmier, 
but  not  bum,  for  half  an  hour.  Now  put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  and  then  add  the 
dry  flour  to  the  onions  and  stir  constantly  for  three  minutes  over  the  fire;  then 
turn  the  mixture  into  the  milk  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Bub  the  soup  through 
a  strainer,  return  to  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  well,  add  the  cream  to  them  and  stir  into  the  soup.  Cook  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  If  you  have  no  cream,  use  milk,  in  which  case  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  at  the  same  time.    Pour  over  fried  croutons  in  a  soup  tureen. 

This  is  a  refreshiug  dish  when  one  is  fatigued. 

WINTER  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Scrape  and  sUce  three  turnips  and.  three  carrots,  and  peel  three  onions,  and 
fry  all  with  a  little  butter  until  a  light  yellow;  add  a  bunch  of  celery  and  three 
or  four  leeks  cut  in  pieces;  stir  and  fry  all  the  ingredients  for  six  minutes^ 


SOUFS   WITHOUT  MEAT.  35 

when  fried,  add  one  clove  of  garlic,  two  stalks  of  parsley,  two  cloves,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  cover  with  three  quarts  of  water  and  simmer 
for  three  hours,  taking  oflE  the  scum  carefully.  Strain  and  use.  Croutons, 
vermicelli,  Italian  pastes,  or  rice  may  be  added. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Swell  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  in  a  quart  of  warm  water,  then  add  it  to 
a  good  beef,  veal,  lamb,  or  chicken  soup  or  broth,  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  butter;  let  the  soup  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  after  it  is  added. 

SWISS  WHITE  SOUP. 

A  sufficient  quantity  of  broth  for  six  people;  boil  it;  beat  up  three  eggs  well, 
two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cup  milk;  pour  these  gradually  through  a  sieve  into 
the  boiling;  soup  salt  and  pepper. 

SPRING  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Half  pint  green  peas,  two  shredded  lettuces,  one  onion,  a  small  bunch  of 
parsley,  two  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  water,  one  and  a 
half  quarts  of  soup  stock.  Put  in  a  stewpan  the  lettuce,  onion,  parsley  and  but- 
ter, with  one  pint  of  water,  and  let  them  simmer  till  tender.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  When  done  strain  off  the  vegetables,  and  put  two-thiids  of 
the  Uquor  with  the  stock.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  other  third, 
toss  it  over  the  fire,  and  at  the  moment  of  serving  add  this  with  the  vegetables 
to  the  strained-off  soup. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

Celery  soup  may  be  made  with  white  stock.  Cut  down  the  white  of  half  a 
dozen  heads  of  celery  into  little  pieces  and  boil  it  in  four  pints  of  white  stock, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham  and  two  ounces  of  butter.  Simmer  gently 
for  a  full  hour,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  return  the  liquor  to  the  pan,  and 
stir  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  with  great  care.  Serve  with  toasted  bread  and, 
if  hked,  thicken  with  a  little  flour.     Season  to  taste. 

IRISH   POTATO  SOUP. 

Peel  and  boil  eight  medium-sized  potatoes  with  a  large  onion,  sliced,  some 
herbs,  salt  and  pepper;  press  all  through  a  colander;  then  thin  it  with  rich  milk 
and  add  a  lump  of  butter,  more  seasoning,  if  necessary;  let  it  heat  well  and 
serve  hot. 


36  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

PEA  SOUP. 

Put  a  quart  of  dried  peas  into  five  quarts  of  water;  boil  for  four  hours;  then 
add  three  or  four  large  onions,  two  heads  of  celery,  a  carrot,  two  turnips,  all  cut 
up  rather  fine.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  two  hours  longer,  and  if  the 
soup  becomes  too  thick  add  more  water.  Strain  through  a  colander  and  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter.  Serve  hot,  with  small  pieces  of  toasted  bread 
placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Beat  up  one  egg  light,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  very 
stiff  dough;  roll  out  very  thin,  like  thin  pie  crust,  dredge  with  flour  to  keep  from 
sticking.  Let  it  remain  on  the  bread  board  to  dry  for  an  hour  or  more;  then 
roll  it  up  intiO  a  tight  scroll,  like  a  sheet  of  music.  Begin  at  the  end  and  slice  it 
into  sUps  as  thin  as  straws.  After  all  are  cut,  mix  them  lightly  together,  and 
to  prevent  them  sticking,  keep  them  floured  a  little  until  you  are  ready  to  drop 
them  into  your  soup,  which  should  be  done  shortly  before  dinner,  for  if  boiled 
too  long  they  will  go  to  pieces. 

FORCE  MEAT  BALLS  FOR   SOUP. 

One  cupful  of  cooked  veal  or  fowl  meat,  minced;  mix  with  this  a  handful  of 
fine  bread-crumbs,  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  smooth  together 
with  a  tablespoon  of  milk;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  a  half  teaspoon  of 
flour,  and  bind  all  together  with  two  beaten  eggs;  the  hands  to  be  well  floured, 
and  the  mixture  to  be  made  into  Uttle  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  drop  into  the 
soup  about  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 

EGG  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat 
flour,  rub  them  smooth  with  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  mix  all  well  together;  make  it  in  balls,  and  drop  them  into  the  boiling  soup 
a  few  minutes  before  taking  it  up. 

Used  in  green  turtle  soup. 

EGG  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP. 

To  half  a  pint  of  milk  put  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  as  much  wheat  flour  as 
will  make  a  smooth,  rather  thick  batter  free  from  lumps;  drop  this  batter,  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time,  into  boiling  soup. 


SOUPS   WITHOUT  MEAT.  37 

Another  mode. — One  cupful  of  sour  cream  and  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  three 
«ggs,  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  level 
i;easpoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water,  and  enough  flour  added  to 
make  a  very  stiff  batter.  To  be  dropped  by  spoonf  ids  into  the  broth  and  boiled 
twenty  minutes,  or  imtil  no  raw  dough  shows  on  the  outside. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP. 

Three  cups  Of  sifted  flour  in  which  three  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder  have 
been  sifted;  one  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet,  well  rubbed  into  the  flour,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wet  all  with  sweet  milk  to  make  a  dough  as  stiflf  as  bis- 
cuit. Make  into  small  balls  as  large  as  peaches,  well  floured.  Drop  into  the 
soup  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  being  served.  This  requires  steady  boil- 
ing, being  closely  covered,  and  the  cover  not  t'>  be  removed  until  taken  up  to  serve. 
A  very  good  form  of  pot-pie. 

SOYER'S  RECIPE   FOR  FORCE  MEATS. 

Take  IJ  lbs.  of  lean  veal  from  the  fiUet,  and  cut  it  in  long  thin  shc^s;  scrape 
with  a  knife  till  nothing  but  the  fibre  remains;  put  it  in  a  mortar,  pound  it  10 
minutes,  or  imtil  in  a  pur6e;  pass  it  through  a  wire  sieve  (use  the  remainder  in 
stock);  then  take  1  lb.  of  good  fresh  beef  suet,  which  skin,  shred,  and  chop 
Tery  fine;  put  it  in  a  mortar  and  pound  it;  then  add  6  oz.  of  panada  (that  is, 
bread  soaked  in  milk,  and  boiled  till  nearly  dry)  with  the  suet;  pound  them  well 
together,  and  add  the  veal;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  i  that  of  nutmeg;  work  all  well  together;  then  add  4  eggs  by  degrees, 
continually  poimding  the  contents  of  the  mortar.  When  weU  mixed,  take  a 
small  piece  in  a  spoon,  and  poach  it  in  some  boiling  water;  and  if  it  is  delicate, 
j&rm,  and  of  a  good  flavor,  it  is  ready  for  use. 

CROUTONS  FOR  SOUP. 

In  a  frying  pan  have  the  depth  of  an  inch  of  boiling  fat;  also  have  prepared 
shces  of  stale  bread,  cut  up  into  Uttle  half -inch  squares;  drop  into  the  frying 
pan  enough  of  these  bits  of  bread  to  cover  the  surface  of  the  fat.  When 
browned,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  drain;  add  to  the  hot  soup  and  serve. 

Some  prefer  them  prepared  in  this  manner: 

Take  very  thin  sUces  of  bread,  butter  them  well;  cut  them  up  into  Uttle 
squares  three  fomljhs  of  an  inch  thick,  place  them  in  a  baking  pan,  buttered 
side  up,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 


38  SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

FISH  STOCK. 

Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  a  good  sized  piece  of  sweet  butter,  and  a 
sliced  onion;  put  into  that  some  sliced  tomatoes,  then  add  as  many  different 
kinds  of  small  fish  as  you  can  get — oysters,  clams,  smelts,  pawns,  crabs,  shrimps, 
and  all  kinds  of  pan-fish;  cook  all  together,  until  the  onions  are  well  browned; 
then  add  a  bimch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  sufiicient  water  to  make 
the  required  amount  of  stock.  After  this  has  cooked  for  half  an  hour  pound  it 
with  a  wooden  pestle,  then  strain  and  cook  again  until  it  jellies. 

FISH  SOUP. 

Select  a  large,  fine  fish,  clean  it  thoroughly,  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  water,  allowing  for  each  pound  of  fish  one  quart  of  water; 
add  an  onion  cut  fine,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  ^^en  the  fish  is  cooked, 
and  is  quite  tasteless,  strain  all  through  a  colander,  retiun  to  the  fire,  add  some 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  small  tablespoonful  of  Worcestei'shire  sauce 
may  be  added  if  liked.  Served  with  small  squares  of  fried  bread  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon. 

LOBSTER  SOUP,  OR  BISQUE. 

Have  ready  a  good  broth  made  of  three  pounds  of  veal  boiled  slowly  in  as 
much  wat^r  as  will  cover  it,  till  the  meat  is  reduced  to  shreds.  It  must  then  be 
well  strained. 

Having  boiled  one  fine  middle-sized  lobster,  extract  all  the  meat  from  the 
body  and  claws.  Bruise  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar,  and  also  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  the  meat.  Mix  them  well  together.  Add  mace,  cayenne,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  make  them  up  into  force-meat  balls,  binding  the  mixtvire  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  slightly  beaten. 

Take  three  quarts  of  the  veal  broth,  and  put  into  it  the  meat  of  the  lobster 
cut  into  mouthfuls.  Boil  it  together  about  twenty  minutes.  Then  thicken  it 
with  the  remaining  coral  (which  you  must  first  rub  through  a  sieve),  and  add 
the  force  meat  baUs  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Simmer  it  gently  for  ten 
minutes  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  as  that  will  injure  the  color.  Serve  with 
small  dice  of  bread  fried  brown  in  butter. 

OYSTER  SOUR     No.  i. 

Two  quarts  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
teacupful  of  hot  water;  pepper,  salt. 


SOUPS   WITHOUT  MEAT.  39 

Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  add  the  water,  and  heat.  When  near 
the  boil,  add  the  seasoning,  then  the  oysters.  Cook  about  five  minutes  from 
the  time  they  begin  to  simmer,  until  they  **  ruffle."  Stir  in  the  butter,  cook  one 
minute,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Stir  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  send  to  table. 
Some  prefer  all  water  in  place  of  milk. 

OYSTER  SOUP.    No.  2. 

Scald  one  gallon  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor.  Add  one  quart  of  rich  milk 
to  the  liquor,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  out  the  oysters  and  set  aside. 
Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  good  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one  of  flour, 
all  mixed  well  together,  but  in  this  order — first,  the  milk,  then,  after  beating 
the  eggs,  add  a  little  of  the  hot  Uquor  to  them  gi-adually,  and  stir  them  rapidly 
into  the  soup.  Lastly,  add  the  butter  and  whatever  seasoning  you  fancy  besides 
plain  pepper  and  salt,  which  must  both  be  put  in  to  taste  with  caution.  Celery  salt 
most  persons  like  extremely;  others  would  prefer  a  little  marjoram  and  thyme; 
others,  again,  mace  and  a  bit  of  onion.     Use  your  own  discretion  in  this  regard. 

CLAM  SOUP.    (French  Style.) 

Mince  two  dozen  hard-shell  clams  very  fine.  Fry  half  a  minced  onion  in  an 
ounce  of  butter;  add  to  it  a  pint  of  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  mace,  four  cloves,  one 
allspice  and  six  whole  pepper  corns.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  strain  into  a 
sauce-pan;  add  the  chopped  clams  and  a  pint  of  clam- juice  or  hot  water;  simmer 
slowly  two  hours;  strain  and  rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  into  the  liquid. 
Eetum  it  to  the  sauce-pan  and  keep  it  lukewarm.  Boil  three  half  pints  of  milk 
in  a  sauce-pan  (previously  wet  with  cold  water,  which  prevents  burning)  and 
whisk  it  into  the  soup.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  flour  in  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the 
soup,  taste  for  seasoning;  heat  it  gently  to  near  the  boiling  point;  pour  it  into  a 
tureen  previously  heated  with  hot  water,  and  serve  with  or  without  pieces  of 
fried  bread — called  croutons  in  kitchen  French. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Twenty -five  clams  chopped  fine.  Put  over  the  fire  the  liquor  that  was 
drained  from  them,  and  a  cup  of  water;  add  the  chopped  clams,  and  boil  half 
an  hour;  then  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large 
as  an  egg;  boil  up  again  and  add  one  quart  of  milk  boiling  hot,  stir  in  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  made  to  a  cream  with  a  little  cold  milk,  or  two  crackers  rolled 
fine.     Some  like  a  little  mace  and  lemon  juice  in  the  seasoning. 


The  usual  custom  among  professional  cooks  is  to  entirely  immerse  the  article 
to  be  cooked  in  boiling  fat,  but  from  inconvenience  most  households  use  the 
half -frying  method  of  frying  in  a  small  amoimt  of  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  For  the 
first  method  a  shallow  iron  f rying-kettle,  large  at  the  top  and  small  at  the  bottom, 
is  best  to  use.  The  fat  should  half  fill  the  kettle,  or  an  amoimt  sufficient  to  float 
whatever  is  to  be  fried;  the  heat  of  the  fat  should  get  to  such  a  degree  that, 
when  a  piece  of  bread  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the  batter  is  dropped  in  it,  it  wiU 
become  brown  almost  instantly,  but  should  not  be  so  hot  as  to  bum  the  fat. 
Some  cooks  say  that  the  fat  should  be  smoking,  but  my  experience  is,  that  is  a 
mistake,  as  that  soon  ruins  the  fat.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  smoke  it  should  be 
removed  a  little  to  one  side,  and  still  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point.  K  fritters, 
crullers,  croquettes,  etc.,  are  dropped  into  fat  that  is  too  hot,  it  crusts  over  the 
outside  before  the  inside  has  fully  risen,  making  a  heavy  hard  article,  and  also 
ruining  the  fat,  giving  it  a  burnt  flavor. 

Many  French  cooks  prefer  beef  fat  or  suet  to  lard  for  frying  purposes,  con- 
sidering it  more  wholesome  and  digestible,  does  not  impart  as  much  flavor,  or 
adhere  or  soak  into  the  article  cooked  as  pork  fat. 

In  families  of  any  size,  where  there  is  much  cooking  required,  there  axe 
enough  drippings  and  fat  remnants  from  roasts  of  beef,  skimmings  from  the 
soup-kettle,  with  the  addition  of  occasionally  a  pound  of  suet  from  the  market, 
to  amply  supply  the  need.  All  such  remnants  and  skimmings  should  be  clarified 
about  twice  a  week,  by  boiling  them  all  together  in  water.  When  the  fat  is  all 
melted,  it  should  be  strained  with  the  water  and  set  aside  to  cool.  After  the  fat 
on  the  top  has  hardened,  lift  the  cake  from  the  water  on  which  it  lies,  scrape  oflf 
all  the  dark  particles  from  the  bottom,  then  melt  over  again  the  fat;  while  hot 
strain  into  a  small  clean  stone  jar  or  bright  tin  pail,  and  then  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Always  after  frying  anything,  the  fat  should  stand  until  it  settles  and  has  cooled 
somewhat;  then  turn  off  carefully  so  as  to  leave  it  dear  from  the  sediment  that 
settles  at  the  bottom. 


FISH.  41 

Refined  cotton-seed  oil  is  now  being  adopted  by  most  professional  cooks  in 
hotels,  restaurants,  and  many  private  households  for  culinary  purposes,  and  will 
doubtless  in  future  supersede  animal  fats,  especially  for  frying,  it  being  quite  as 
delicate  a  medium  as  frying  with  oUve  oil.  It  is  now  sold  by  leading  grocers, 
put  up  in  packages  of  two  and  four  quarts. 

The  second  mode  of  frying,  using  a  frying-pan  with  a  small  quantity  of  fat- 
or  grease,  to  be  done  properly,  should  in  the  first  place  have  the  frying-pan  hot 
over  the  fire,  and  the  fat  in  it  actually  boiling  before  the  article  to  be  cooked  is 
placed  in  it,  the  intense  heat  quickly  searing  up  the  pores  of  the  article  and 
forming  a  brown  crust  on  the  lower  side,  then  turning  over  and  browning  the 
other  the  same  way. 

Still,  there  is  another  mode  of  frying;  the  process  is  somewhat  similar  to 
broihng,  the  hot  frying-pan  or  spider  replacing  the  hot  fire.  To  do  this  cor- 
rectly, a  thick  bottom  frying-pan  should  be  used.  Place  it  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  so  hot  that  it  wiU  siss,  oil  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  piece  of 
suet,  that  is  if  the  meat  is  all  lean;  if  not,  it  is  not  necessary  to  grease  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Lay  in  the  meat  quite  flat,  and  brown  it  quickly,  first  on  one 
side  then  on  the  other;  when  sufficiently  cooked,  dish  on  a  hot  platter  and  season 
the  same  as  broiled  meats. 


jfisb. 


In  selecting  fish,  choose  those  only  in  which  the  eye  is  fuU  and  prominent, 
the  flesh  thick  and  firm,  the  scales  bright  and  fins  stiff.  They  should  be  thor- 
oughly  cleaned  before  cooking. 

The  usual  modes  of  cooking  fish  are  boiled,  baked,  broiled,  fried  and  occa- 
sionally stewed.  Steaming  fish  is  much  superior  to  boiling,  but  the  ordinary 
conveniences  in  private  houses  do  not  admit  of  the  possibility  of  enjoying  this 
deUcate  way  of  cooking  it.  Large  fish  are  generally  boiled,  medium-sized  ones 
baked  or  boiled,  the  smaller  kinds  fried  or  broiled.  Very  large  fish,  such  as  cod, 
halibut,  etc.,  are  cut  in  steaks  or  slices  for  frying  or  broiling.  The  heads  of  some 
fish,  as  the  cod,  halibut,  etc.,  are  considered  tidbits  by  many.  Small  fish,  or 
pan  fish,  as  they  are  usually  called,  are  served  without  the  heads,  with  the 
exception  of  brook-trouts  and  smelts;  these  are  usually  cooked  whole,  with  the 
head  on.  Bake  fish  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  Salmon  is 
considered  the  most  nutritious  of  all  fish.  When  boiUng  fish,  by  adding  a  little 
vinegar  and  salt  to  the  water,  it  seasons  and  prevents  the  nutriment  from  being 
drawn  out;  the  vinegar  acting  on  the  water  hardens  the  water. 


42  FISH. 

Fill  the  fish  with  a  nicely  prepared  stuffing  of  rolled  cracker  or  stale  bread 
crumbs,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  any  other  aromatic  herbs 
fancied;  sew  up;  wrap  in  a  well-floured  cloth,  tied  closely  with  twine,  and  boil 
or  steam.  The  garnishes  for  boiled  fish  are:  For  turbot,  fried  smelts;  for  other 
boiled  fish,  parsley,  sUced  beets,  lemon  or  shced  boiled  egg.  Do  not  use  the 
knives,  spoons^  etc.,  that  are  used  in  cooking  fish,  for  other  food,  or  they  will 
be  apt  to  impart  a  fishy  fiavor. 

Fish  to  be  boiled  should  be  put  into  cold  water  arid  set  on  the  fire  to  cook 
very  gently,  or  the  outside  will  break  before  the  inner  part  is  done.  Unless 
the  fish  are  small,  they  should  never  be  put  into  warm  water;  nor  should  water, 
either  hot  or  cold,  be  poured  on  to  the  fish,  as  it  is  liable  to  break  the  skin:  if  it 
should  be  necessary  to  add  a  little  water  while  the  fish  is  cooking,  it  ought  to  be 
poured  in  gently  at  the  side  of  the  vessel. 

Fish  to  be  broiled  should  he,  after  they  are  dressed,  for  two  or  three  homig, 
VTith  their  inside  well  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in  water  before  boiling,  according  to  the  time  it 
has  been  in  salt.  When  it  is  hard  and  dry,  it  will  require  thirty-six  hoxu?s  soak- 
ing before  it  is  dressed,  and  the  water  must  be  changed  three  or  four  times. 
When  fish  is  not  very  salt,  twenty-four  hours,  or  even  one  night,  will  suffice. 

When  frying  fish  the  fire  must  be  hot  enough  to  bring  the  fat  to  such  a 
degree  of  heat  as  to  sear  the  surface  and  make  it  impervious  to  the  fat,  and  at 
the  same  time  seal  up  the  rich  juices.  As  soon  as  the  fish  is  browned  by  this 
sudden  application  of  heat,  the  pan  may  be  moved  to  a  cooler  place  on  the  stove, 
that  the  process  may  be  finished  more  slowly. 

Fat  in  which  fish  has  been  fried  is  just  as  good  to  use  again  for  the  same 
purpose,  but  it  should  be  kept  by  itself  and  not  be  put  to  any  other  use. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

Most  of  the  smaller  fish  (generally  termed  pan-fish)  are  usually  fried.  Clean 
well,  cut  off  the  head,  and,  if  quite  large,  cut  out  the  backbone,  and  shoe  the 
body  crosswise  into  five  or  six  pieces;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in 
Indian  meal  or  wheat  flour,  or  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  bread  or  fine  cracker 
crumbs — trout  and  perch  should  not  be  dipped  in  meal;  put  into  a  thick  bot- 
tomed iron  frying-pan,  the  flesh  side  down,  with  hot  lard  or  drippings;  fry 
slowly,  turning  when  lightly  browned.  The  following  method  may  be  deemed 
preferable:  Dredge  the  pieces  with  flour;  brush  them  over  with  beaten  egg;  roll 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  sufficient  to  cover,  the  same 


FISH.  43 

as  frying  crullers  If  the  fat  is  very  hot,  the  fish  will  fry  without  absorbing  it, 
and  it  will  be  palatably  cooked.  When  browned  on  one  side,  turn  it  over  in  the 
fat  and  brown  the  other,  draining  when  done.  This  is  a  particularly  good  way 
to  fry  slices  of  large  fish.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce;  garnish  with  shces  of  lemon. 

PAN  FISH. 

Place  them  in  a  thick  bottom  frying-pan  with  heads  all  one  way.  Fill  the 
spaces  with  smaller  fish.  When  they  are  fried  quite  brown  and  ready  to  turn, 
put  a  dinner  plate  over  them,  drain  off  the  fat;  then  invert  the  pan,  and  they 
will  be  left  unbroken  on  the  plate.  Put  the  lard  back  into  the  pan,  and  when 
Tiot  sUp  back  the  fish.  When  the  other  side  is  brown,  drain,  turn  on  a  plate  as 
before,  and  sUp  them  on  a  warm  platter,  to  be  sent  to  the  table.  Leaving  the 
heads  on  and  the  fish  a  crispy-browTi,  in  perfect  shape,  improves  the  appearance 
if  not  the  flavor.     Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

— Hotel  Lafayettey  Philadelphia, 

BAKED  PICKEREL. 

Carefully  clean  and  wipe  the  fish,  and  lay  in  a  dripping-pan  with  enough  hot 
water  to  prevent  scorching.  A  perforated  sheet  of  tin,  fitting  loosely,  or  several 
muffin  rings  may  be  used  to  keep  it  off  the  bottom.  Lay  it  in  a  circle  on  its 
belly,  head  and  tail  touching,  and  tied,  or  as  directed  in  note  on  fish;  bake 
slowly,  basting  often  vrith  butter  and  water.  When  done,  have  ready  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream  or  rich  milk  to  which  a  few  spoons  of  hot  water  has  been  added; 
stir  in  two  large  spoons  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley;  heat  all 
by  setting  the  cup  in  boiling  water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  and 
let  it  boil  up  once;  place  the  fish  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce.  Or 
an  egg  sauce  may  be  made  with  drawn  butter;  stir  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  quickly, 
and  then  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  It  can  be  stuffed  or  not,  just  as  you 
please. 

BOILED  SALMON. 

The  middle  slice  of  salmon  is  the  best.  Sew  up  neatly  in  a  mosquito-net 
bag,  and  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  in  hot  salted  water.  When  done, 
tinwrap  with  care,  and  lay  upon  a  hot  dish,  taking  care  not  to  break  it.  Have 
ready  a  large  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  very  rich,  in  which  has  been  stirred  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Pour  half  upon  the 
salmon,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  boat.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  eggs. 


44  FISH. 

BROILED  SALMON. 

Cut  dices  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  season: 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  them  in  sifted  flour,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  rubbed 
with  suet. 

Another  wode.— Cut  the  slices  one  inch  thick,  and  season  them  with  pepper 
and  salt;  butter  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  lay  each  slice  on  a  separate  piece,  envelope 
them  in  it  with  their  ends  twisted;  broil  gently  over  a  clear  fire,  and  serve  with 
anchovy  or  caper  sauce.  When  higher  seasoning  is  required,  add  a  few  chopped 
herbs  and  a  little  spice. 

FRESH  SALMON  FRIED. 

Cut  the  slices  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  dredge  them  with  flour,  or  dip  . 
them  in  egg  and  crumbs,— fry  a  light  brown.  This  mode  answers  for  all  fish, 
cut  into  steaks.    Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 

SALMON  AND  CAPER  SAUCE. 

Two  slices  of  salmon,  one-quarter  pound  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  one  shalot;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Lay  the    salmon  in  a   baking-dish,   place  pieces  of   butter  over  it    and 
add  the  other  ingredients,  rubbing  a  little  of  the  seasoning  into  the  fish;  place  it . 
in  the  oven  and  baste  it  frequently;  when  done,  take  it  out  and  diuin  for  a 
minute  or  two;  lay  it  in  a  dish,  pour  caper  sauce  over  it,  and  serve.    Salmon 
dressed  in  this  way,  with  tomato  sauce,  is  very  delicious. 

BROILED  SALT  SALMON  OR  OTHER  SALT  FISH. 

Soak  salmon  in  tepid  or  cold  water  twenty-four  hours,  changing  water  sev- 
eral times,  or  let  stand  imder  faucet  of  running  water.    If  in  a  hurry  or  desiring 
a  vefy  salt  relish,  it  may  do  to  soak  a  short  time,  having  water  warm,  and 
changing,  parboiling  slightly.    At  the  hour  wanted,  broil  sharply.    Season  to . 
suit  taste«  covering  with  butter. .  This  recipe  will  answer  for  all  kinds  of  salt  fish. 

PICKLED  SALMON. 

Take  a  fine,  fresh  salmon,  and  having  cleaned  it,  cut  it  into  large  pieces,  and 
boil  it  in  salted  water  as  if  for  eating.  Then  drain  it,  vsrrap  it  in  a  dry  cloth,  and 
set  it  in  a  cold  place  till  next  day.     Then  make  the  pickle,  which  must  be  in. 


FISH.  45 

proportion  to  the  quantity  of  fish.  To  one  quart  of  the  water  in  which  the 
sahnon  was  boiled,  allow  two  quarts  of  the  best  vinegar,  one  oimce  of  whole 
black  pepper,  one  nutm^  grated  and  a  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  all  these 
together  in  a  kettle  closely  covered  to  prevent  the  flavor  from  evaporating. 
When  the  vinegar  thus  prepai'ed  is  quite  cold,  pour  it  over  the  sahnoii,  and  put 
on  the  top  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil,  which  will  make  it  keep  the  longer. 

Cover  it  closely,  put  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  it  will  be  good  for  many 
months.  This  is  the  nicest  way  of  preserving  salmon,  and  is  approved  by  all 
who  have  tried  it. 

SMOKED  SALMON. 

Smoked  salmon  to  be  broiled  should  be  put  upon  the  gridiron  first,  with  the 
flesh  side  to  the  fire. 

Smoked  salmon  is  very  nice  when  shaved  like  smoked  beef,  and  served  with 
coffee  or  tea. 

FRICASSEE  SALMON. 

This  way  of  cooking  fresh  salmon  is  a  pleasant  change  from  the  ordinary 
modes  of  cooking  it:  Cut  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  salmon  into  pieces  one 
inch  square;  put  the  pieces  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  cupful  of  water,  a  httle 
salt,  a  little  white  pepper,  one  clove,  one  blade  of  mace,  three  pieces  of  sugar, 
one  shalot  and  a  heaping  teaspoonf  ul  of  mustard  mixed  smoothly  with  half  £L 
teacupful  of  vinegar.  Let  this  boil  up  once  and  add  six  tomatoes  peeled  and 
cut  into  tiny  pieces,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  finely  minced,  and  one  wineglassful 
of  sherry.  Let  all  simmer  gently  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  very 
hot,  and  garnish  with  dry  toast  cut  in  triangular  pieces.  This  dish  is  good,  very 
cold,  for  luncheon  or  breakfast. 

SALMON  PATTIES. 

Cut  cold  cooked  salmon  into  dice.  Heat  about  a  pint  of  the  dice  in  half  a 
pint  of  cream.  Season  to  taste  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Fill  the  shells 
and  serve.  Cold  cooked  fish  of  any  kind  may  be  made  into  patties  in  this  way. 
Use  any  fish  sauce  you  choose — all  are  equally  good. 

FISH  AND  OYSTER  PIE. 

Any  remains  of  cold  fish,  such  as  cod  or  haddock,  2  dozen  oysters^  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  bread-crumbs  sufiicient  for  the  quantity  of  fish;  i  teaspoonful  of 
grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley. 


' 


\  ■ 


46  J^/SIf. 

Clear  the  fish  from  the  bones,  and  put  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie-dish,  which 
sprinkle  with  pe])per  and  salt;  then  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  oysters,  nutmeg, 
and  chopped  parsley.  Repeat  this  till  the  dish  is  quite  full.  Tou  may  form  a 
covering  either  of  bread  crumbs,  which  should  be  browned,  or  p\iff -paste,  which 
should  be  cut  off  into  long  strips,  and  laid  in  cross-bars  over  the  fish,  with  a  line 
of  the  paste  first  laid  round  the  edge.  Before  putting  on  the  top,  pour  in  some 
made  melted  butter,  or  a  httle  thin  white  sauce,  and  the  oyster-liquor,  and  bake. 

T£ine.—I£  of  cooked  fish,  i  hour;  if  made  of  fresh  fish  and  puff-paste,  i  hour. 

STEAMED  FISH. 

Secure  the  taU  of  the  fish  in  its  mouth,  the  body  in  a  circle;  pom:  over  it 
half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt;  let  it  stand  an  hour  in  a 
cool  place;  pour  off  the  vinegar,  and  put  it  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  and 
steam  twenty  minutes,  or  longer  for  large  fish.  When  the  meat  easily  separates 
from  the  bone  it  is  done.  Drain  wellj^  and  serve  on  a  very  clean  white  napkin, 
neatly  folded  and  placed  on  the  platter;  decorate  the  napkin  around  the  fish  with 
sprigs  of  curled  parsley,  or  with  fanciful  beet  cuttings,  or  alternately  with 
both. 

TO  BROIL  A  SHAD. 

SpUt  and  wash  the  shad,  and  afterwards  dry  it  in  a  cloth.  Season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  a  bed  of  clear,  bright  coals.  Grease  your  gridiron 
well,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  lay  the  shad  upon  it,  the  fiesh  side  down;  cover 
vdth  a  dripping-pan  and  broil  it  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  more,  accord- 
ing to  the  thickness.  Butter  it  well,  and  send  it  to  the  table.  Covering  it  while 
broiling  gives  it  a  more  delicious  flavor. 

BAKED  SHAD. 

Many  people  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  very  best  method  of  cooking  a  shad 
is  to  bake  it.  Stuff  it  with  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  parsley,  and 
mix  this  up  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg;  fill  the  fish  with  it,  and  sew  it  up  or 
fasten  a  string  around  it.  Pour  over  it  a  little  water  and  some  butter,  and  bake 
as  you  would  a  fowl.  A  shad  will  require  from  an  hour  to  an  hoiu*  and  a 
quarter  to  bake.    Garnish  with  shoes  of  lemon,  water  cresses,  etc. 

Dressing  for  Baked  Shad. — Boil'up  the  gravy  in  which  the  shad  was  baked, 
put  in  a  large  tablespoonf ul  of  catsup,  a  tablespoonful  of  brown  fiour  which 
has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Ma- 
deira wine.     Serve  in  a  sauce  boat. 


FISH.  47 

TO  COOK  A  SHAD  ROE. 

Drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  gently  for  twenty  minutes;  then  take  from 
the  fire,  and  drain.  Butter  a  tin  plate,  and  lay  the  drained  roe  upon  it.  Dredge 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  soft  butter  over  it;  then  dredge  thickly 
with  flour.  Cook  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour,  basting  frequently  with  salt, 
pepper,  flour,  butter  and  water. 

TO  COOK  SHAD  ROE.    (Another  Way.) 

First  partly  boil  them  in  a  small  covered  pan,  take  out  and  season  them  with 
salt,  a  little  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  as  any  fish. 

EELS  A  LA  TART  ARE. 

Two  pounds  of  eels,  one  carrot,  one  onion,  a  little  flour,  one  glass  of  sherry; 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  taste;  bread-crumbs;  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar. 

Rub  the  butter  on  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan;  cut  up  the  carrot  and  onion, 
and  stir  them  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes;  dredge  in  a  little  flour;  add  the  wine 
and  seasoning,  and  boil  for  \  an  hour.  Skin  and  wash  the  eels,  cut  them  into 
pieces,  put  them  to  the  other  ingi-edients,  and  simmer  till  tender.  When  they 
are  done,  take  them  out,  let  them  get  cold,  cover  them  with  egg  and  bread- 
cinimbs,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown.  ^  Put  them  on  a  dish,  pour  '^  sauce 
piquante''  over,  and  serve  them  hot. 

Time. — 1^  hoims. 

FRIED  EELS. 

After  cleaning  the  eels  well,  cut  them  in  pieces  two  inches  long;  wash  them 
and  wipe  them  dry;  roll  them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  as  di- 
rected for  other  fish,  in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping,  salted.  They  should  be 
browned  all  over  and  thoroughly  done. 

Eels  are  sometimes  dipped  in  batter  and  then  fried,  or  into  egg  and  bread 
crumbs.     Serve  with  crisped  parsley. 

SHEEPSHEAD  WITH  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Select  a  medium-sized  fish,  clean  it  thoroughly,  and  rub  a  Uttle  salt  over  it; 
wrap  it  in  a  doth  and  put  it  in  a  steamer;  place  this  over  a  pot  of  fast-boiling 
water  and  steam  one  hour;  then  lay  it  whole  upon  a  hot  side-dish,  garnish  with 


48  FISH. 

tufts  of  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter,  prepared  as 
follows:  Take  two  ounces  of  butter  and  roll  it  into  smaJl  balls,  dredge  these 
with  flour;  put  one-fourth  of  them  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  as  they  begin  to  melt, 
whisk  them;  add  the  remainder,  one  at  a  time,  until  thoroughly  smooth;  while 
stirring,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  half  a  tablespoonf ul  of  chopped  pars- 
ley; pour  into  a  hot  sauce  boat,  and  serve. 


BAKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Thoroughly  clean  the  fish;  cut  oflf  the  head  or  not,  as  preferred;  cut  out  the 
backbone  from  the  head  to  within  two  inches  of  the  tail,  and  stuff  with  the  fol- 
lowing: Soak  stale  bread  in  water,  squeeze  dry;  cut  in  pieces  a  large  onion,  fry 
in  butter,  chop  fine;  add  the  bread,  two  otmces  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  lit- 
tle parsley  or  sage;  heat  through,  and  when  taken  off  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of 
two  well-beaten  eggs;  stuff  the  fish  rather  full,  sew  up  with  fine  twine,  and 
wrs^p  with  several  coils  of  white  tape.  Rub  the  fish  over  slightly  with  butter; 
just  cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  with  hot  water,  and  place  the  fish  in  it, 
standing  back  upward,  and  bent  in  the  form  of  an  S.  Serve  with  the  following 
dressing:  Eeduce  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  good  salad  oil;  stir  in  half  a  teaspoon  FiUglish  mustard,  and  add 
pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

HALIBUT  BOILED. 

The  cut  next  to  the  tail-piece  is  the  best  to  boil.  Rub  a  little  salt  over  it, 
soak  it  for  fifteen  minutes  in  vinegar  and  cold  water,  then  wash  it  and  scrape 
it  until  quite  clean;  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  slowly  over  a  moderate  fire,  allow- 
ing seven  minutes  boiling  to  each  pound  of  fish;  when  it  is  half  cooked,  turn  it 
over  in  the  pot;  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  egg  sauce. 

Boiled  halibut  minced  with  boiled  potatoes,  and  a  little  butter  and  milk,  makes 
an  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

STEAMED  HALIBUT. 

Select  a  three-pound  piece  of  white  haUbut,  cover  it  with  a  cloth  and  place  it 
in  a  steamer;  set  the  steamer  over  a  pot  of  fast-boihng  water  and  steam  two 
hours;  place  it  on  a  hot  dish  surrounded  with  a  border  of  pai'sley,  and  serve  with 
egg-sauce. 


FJ[SH.  49 

FRIED  HALIBUT.    No.  I. 

Select  choice,  firm  slices  from  this  large  and  delicate-looking  fish,  and,  after 
•carefully  washing  and  diying  with  a  soft  towel,  with  a  sharp  knife  take  off  the 
skin.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  and  roll  out  some  brittle  crackers  upon  the  kneading 
board  iintil  they  are  as  fine  as  dust.  Dip  each  sUce  into  the  beaten  egg,  then 
into  the  cracker  crumbs,  (after  you  have  salted  and  peppered  the  fish),  and  place 
them  in  a  hot  frying-pan  half  full  of  boiling  lard,  in  which  a  httle  butter  has 
been  added  to  make  the  fish  brown  nicely;  turn  and  brown  both  sides,  remove 
from  the  frying-pan  and  di*ain.    Serve  hot. 

FRIED  HALIBUT.    No.  2. 

First  fry  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  until  brown  in  an  iron  frying-pan; 
then  take  it  up  on  a  hot  platter,  and  keep  it  warm  until  the  halibut  is  fried. 
After  washing  and  drying  two  pounds  of  shced  halibut,  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  put  it  into  the  hot  pork-drippings  and  fry 
brown  on  both  sides;  then  serve  the  pork  with  the  fish. 

HaUbut  broiled  in  shoes  is  a  very  good  way  of  cooking  it,  broiled  the  same  as 
Spanish  mackerel. 

BAKED  HALIBUT. 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or  six  pounds,  and  lay  it  in  salt 
vrater  for  two  hours.  Wipe  it  dry  and  score  the  outer  skin.  Set  it  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan in  a  moderate  hot  oven,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter 
and  water  heated  together  in  a  sauce-pan  or  tin  cup.  When  a  fork  will  pene- 
trate it  easily,  it  is  done.  It  should  be  a  fine,  brown  color.  Take  the  gravy  in 
the  dripping-pan,  add  a  Uttle  boiUng  water  should  there  not  be  enough,  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  brown  flour,  previously  wet  with  cold  water. 
Boil  up  once  and  put  in  a  sauce  boat. 

HALIBUT   BROILED. 

Broil  the  same  as  other  fish,  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire,  first 
reasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  placed  on  a  hot  dish  when  done,  buttered  well 
-and  cover  closely. 

FRIED  BROOK  TROUT. 

These  deUcate  fish  are  usually  fried,  and  form  a  delightful  breakfast  or  sup- 
per dish.    Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish,  spUt  them  to  the  tail,  salt  and  pepper 


50  FISH. 

them,  and  flour  them  nicely.  K  you  use  lard  instead  of  the  fat  of  fried  salt 
pork,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  to  prevent  their  sticking,  and  which  causes  them 
to  brown  nicely.  Let  the  fat  be  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  deUcate  brown.  Thej- 
should  be  sufficiently  browned  on  one  side  before  turning  on  the  other  side. 
They  are  nice  served  with  sUces  of  fried  pork,  fried  crisp.  Lay  them  side  by 
side  on  a  heated  platter,  garnish  and  send  hot  to  the  table.  They  are  often 
cooked  and  served  with  their  heads  on. 

FRIED  SMELTS. 

Fried  with  their  heads  on  the  same  as  brook  trout.  Many  think  that  the\^ 
make  a  much  better  appearance  as  a  dish  when  cooked  whole  with  the  heads 
on,  and  nicely  garnished  for  the  table. 

BOILED  WHITE  FISH. 

Taken  from  Mrs.  A.  W\  Ferry* s  Cook  Book,  Mackinac^  1824.  The  most  deli- 
cate mode  of  cooking  white  fish.  Prepare  the  fish  as  for  broiling,  lajring  it  open ; 
put  it  into  a  dripping-pan  with  the  back  down;  nearly  cover  with  water;  to  one 
fish  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt;  cover  tightly  and  simmer  (not  boil)  one-half 
horn*.  Dress  with  gravy,  a  Uttle  butter  and  pepper,  and  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH.   (Bordeaux  Sauce.) 

Clean  and  stuff  the  fish.  Put  it  in  a  baking-pan  and  add  a  hberal  quantity 
of  butter,  previously  rolled  in  flour,  to  the  fish.  Put  in  the  pan  half  a  pint  of 
claret,  and  bake  for  an  hoiu*  and  a  quarter.  Bemove  the  fish  and  strain  the 
gravy;  add  to  the  latter  a  gill  more  of  claret,  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  flour 
and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  serve  with  the  fish. 

— Plankington  House,  Milwaukee^ 

BAKED  SALMON  TROUT. 

This  deliciously  flavored  game-fish  is  baked  precisely  as  shad  or  white  fish,, 
but  should  be  accompanied  with  cream  gravy  to  make  it  perfect.  It  should  be- 
baked  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  When  done,  have  ready  in. 
a  sauce-pan  a  cup  of  cream,  diluted  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  for  fear 
it  might  clot  in  heating,  in  which  have  been  stirred  cautiously  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  a  Uttle  chopped  parsley. 
Heat  this  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  add  the  gravy  from  the 


FISH.  5  r 

drippiiig-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  and  when  the  trout  is  laid  on  a  suitable 
hot  dish,  pour  this  sauce  around  it.    GJamish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

This  same  fish  boiled,  served  with  the  same  cream  gravy,  (with  the  exception 
of  the  fish  gravy,)  is  the  proper  way  to  cook  it. 

TO  BAKE  SMELTS. 

Wash  and  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  and  arrange  them  nicely  in  a  flat 
baking-dish;  the  pan  should  be  buttered,  also  the  fish;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cover  with  bread  or  cracker-crumbs.  Place  a  piece  of  butter  over  each. 
Bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.    Garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 

BROILED  SPANISH  MACKEREL. 

Spht  the  fish  down  the  back,  take  out  the  back  bone,  wash  it  in  cold  water,, 
dry  it  with  a  clean  dry  cloth,  sprinkle  it  lightly  with  salt  and  lay  it  on  a  but- 
tered gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire,  with  the  flesh  side  downward,  until  it  begins  to 
brown;  then  turn  the  other  side.  Have  ready  a  mixture  of  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  melted,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  some  pep- 
per. Dish  up  the  fish  hot  from  the  gridiron  on  a  hot  dish,  tmn  over  the  mix- 
ture and  serve  it  while  hot. 

Broiled  Spanish  mackerel  is  excellent  with  other  fish  sauces.  Boiled  Spanish 
mackerel  is  also  very  fine  with  most  of  the  fish  sauces,  more  especially  ''  Matre 
d'Hotel  Sauce.'' 

BOILED  SALT    MACKEREL. 

Wash  and  clean  off  all  the  brine  and  salt;  put  it  to  soak  with  the  meat  side> 
down,  in  cold  water  over  night;  in  the  morning  rinse  it  in  one  or  two  waters.. 
Wrap  each  up  in  a  cloth  and  put  it  into  a  kettle  with  considerable  water,  which 
should  be  cold;  cook  about  thu-ty  minutes.  Take  it  carefully  from  the  cloth,, 
take  out  the  back  bones  and  pour  ov^er  a  httle  melted  butter  and  cream;  add  a 
light  sprinkle  of  pepper.    Or  make  a  cream  sauce  hke  the  following: 

Heat  a  smaU  cup  of  milk  to  scalding.  Stir  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  com  starch, 
wet  up  with  a  little  water.  When  this  thickens,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley,  to  taste.  Beat  an  egg  light,  pour  the  sauce 
gradually  over  it,  put  the  mixture  again  over  the  fire,  and  stir  one  minute,  not 
more.  Pour  upon  the  fish,  and  serve  it  with  some  slices  of  lemon,  or  a  few- 
sprigs  of  parsley  or  water-cresses,  on  the  dish  as  a  garnish. 


3^  FISH. 

BAKED  SALT  MACKEREL. 

When  the  mackerel  have  soalced  over  night,  put  them  in  a  pan  and  pom*  on 
filing  water  enough  to  cover.  Let  them  stand  a  couple  of  minutes,  then  drain 
"them  off,  and  put  them  in  the  pan  with  a  few  lumps  of  hutter;  pour  on  a  half 
i;eacupful  of  sweet  cream,  or  rich  milk,  and  a  little  pepper;  set  in  the  oven  and 
let  it  bake  a  little  until  brown. 

FRIED   SALT  MACKEREL. 

Select  as  many  salt  mackerel  as  required;  wash  and  cleanse  them  well,  then 
put  them  to  soak  all  day  in  cold  water,  changing  them  every  two  hours;  then 
put  them  into  fresh  water  just  before  retiring.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the 
"water,  wipe  them  dry,  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter  on  a  hot  thick- 
lx>ttom  frying-pan.  Serve  with  a  Httle  melted  butter  poured  over,  and  garnish 
^with  a  httle  parsley. 

BOILED  FRESH   MACKEREL. 

Fresh  mackerel  are  cooked  in  water  salted,  and  a  httle  vinegar  added;  with 
this  exception  they  can  be  served  in  the  same  way  as  the  salt   mackerel. 
Broiled  ones  are  very  nice  with  the  same  cream  sauce,  or  you  can  substitute  egg 
usance. 

POTTED  FRESH  FISH. 

After  the  fish  has  laid  in  salt  water  six  hours,  take  it  out,  and  to  every  six 
pounds  of  fish  take  one-quarter  cupful  each  of  salt,  black  pepper  and  cinnamon, 
*one  eighth  cupful  of  allspice,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves. 

Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  and  put  into  a  half  gallon  stone  baking-jar,  first  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  the  spices,  flour,  and  then  spread  a  thin  layer  of  butter  on,  and  con- 
ijinue  so  until  the  dish  is  full.  Fill  the  jar  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water, 
•cover  with  tightly  fitting  hd,  so  that  the  steam  cannot  escape;  bake  five  hours, 
:remove  from  the  oven,  and  when  it  is  cold,  it  is  to  be  cut  in  shoes  and  served, 
"^his  is  a  tea  or  liinch  dish. 

SCALLOPED  CRABS. 

Put  the  crabs  into  a  kettle  of  boihng  water,  and  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt. 
"Boil  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  Take  them  from  the  water  when 
«don3  and  pick  out  all  the  meat;  be  careful  not  to  break  the  shell.  To  a  pint  of 
imeat  put  a  httle  salt  and  pepper;  taste,  and  if  not  enough  add  more,  a  httle  at  a 


FISH.  53 

time,  till  suited.  Grate  in  a  very  little  nutmeg,  and  add  one  spoonful  of  cracker  or 
bread-crumbs,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (even  full): 
stir  all  well  together;  wash  the  shells  clean,  and  fill  each  shell  full  of  the  mix- 
ture; sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top  and  moisten  with  the  Uquor;  set  in  the  oven 
till  of  a  nice  brown;  a  few  minutes  will  do  it.  Send  to  the  table  hot,  arranged 
on  large  dishes.    They  are  eaten  at  breakfast  or  supper. 

FISH  IN  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Make  up  cold  boiled  halibut  and  set  the  plate  into  the  steamer,  that  the  fish 
may  heat  without  drying.  Boil  the  bones  and  skin  of  the  fish  with  a  slice  of 
onion  and  a  very  small  piece  of  red  pepper;  a  bit  of  this  the  size  of  a  kernel  of 
coffee  will  make  the  sauce  quite  as  hot  as  most  persons  Uke  it.  Boil  this  stock 
down  to  half  a  pint;  thicken  with  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  mixed  together.  Add  one  drop  of  extract  of  almond.  Pour  this  sauce 
over  your  haUbut  and  stick  bits  of  parsley  over  it. 

FRESH  STURGEON  STEAK  MARINADE. 

Take  one  sUce  of  sturgeon  two  inches  thick;  let  it  stand  in  hot  water  five 
minutes;  drain;  put  it  in  a  bowl  and  add  a  gill  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon;  let  it  stand  six  hours,  turning  it  occasionally;  drain  and 
dry  on  a  napkin;  dip  it  in  egg;  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry,  or  rather  boil,  in 
very  hot  fat.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  French 
mustard,  and,  by  degrees,  half  of  the  marinade,  to  make  a  smooth  sauce,  which 
serve  with  the  fish. 

POTTED  FISH. 

Take  out  the  backbone  of  the  fish;  for  one  weighing  two  pounds  take  a  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice  and  cloves  mixed;  these  spices  should  be  put  into  little  bags 
of  not  too  thick  muslin;  put  sufficient  salt  directly  upon  each  fish;  then  roll  in 
a  cloth,  over  which  sprinkle  a  little  cayenne  pepper;  put  alternate  layers  of  fish, 
spice  and  sage  in  an  earthern  jar;  cover  with  the  best  cider  vinegar;  cover  the 
jar  closely  with  a  plate,  and  over  this  put  a  covering  of  dough,  rolled  out  to 
twice  the  thickness  of  pie  crust.  Make  the  edges  of  paste,  to  adhere  closely  to 
the  sides  of  the  jar,  so  as  to  make  it  air-tight.  Put  the  jar  into  a  pot  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  boil  from  three  to  five  hours,  according  to  quantity.  Ready 
when  cold. 


54  ^J^SIT. 

MAYONNAISE  FISH. 

Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  rock,  or  cod),  not  chop,  but 
cut,  into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Mix  in  a  bowl  a  dressing  as  follows:  The 
yolk  of  four  boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil  or  butter;  add 
to  these  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and,  lastly, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  mixtin^  until  hght,  and  just  before 
poiuing  it  over  the  fish,  stir  in  lightly  the  frothed  white  of  a  raw  egg.  Serve 
the  fish  in  a  glass  dish,  with  half  the  dressing  stirred  in  with  it.  Spread  the 
remainder  over  the  top,  and  lay  lettuce  leaves  (from  the  core  of  the  head  of  let- 
tuce) around  the  edges,  to  be  eaten  with  it. 

FISH  CHOWDER.     (Rhode  Island.) 

Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  you  are  to 
make  your  chowder  in;  take  them  out  and  chop  them  into  small  pieces,  put  them 
back  into  the  bottom  of  the  pot  with  their  own  gravy.  (This  is  much  better 
than  having  the  slices  whole.) 

Cut  four  pounds  of  fresh  cod  or  sea-bass  into  pieces  two  inches  square,  and 
lay  enough  of  these  on  the  pork  to  cover  it.  Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped 
onions,  a  little  parsley;  summer  savory  and  pepper,  either  black  or  cayenne. 
Then  a  layer  of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  whole  cream  crackers,  which  have 
been  soaked  in  warm  water  until  moistened  through,  but  not  ready  to  break. 
Above  this  put  a  layer  of  pork,  and  repeat  the  order  given  above — onions,  sea- 
soning, (not  too  much),  crackers  and  pork,  until  your  materials  are  exhausted. 
Let  the  topmost  layer  be  buttered  crackers  well  soaked.  Pour  in  enough  cold 
water  to  barely  cover  all.  Cover  the  pot,  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  watching 
that  the  water  does  not  sink  too  low.  Should  it  leave  the  upper  layer  exposed, 
replenish  cautiously  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  When  the  chowder  is  thoroughly 
done,  take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  put  into  a  tinmen.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about  the  same  quantity  of  butter;  boil 
up  and  pom:  over  the  chowder.  Serve  sliced  lemon,  pickles  and  stewed  toma- 
toes with  it,  that  the  guests  may  add  if  they  like. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

Take  a  pint  bowl  of  codfish  picked  very  fine,  two  pint  bowls  of  whole  raw 
peeled  potatoes,  sliced  thickly;  put  them  together  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and 
boil  until  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  cooked;  remove  from  the-  fire,  and  drain 
off  all  the  water.    Mash  them  with  the  potato  masher,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 


FISH.  55 

size  of  an  egg,  one  well -beaten  egg,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Flour  your  hands  and  make  into  balls  or  cakes.  Put  an  ounce  each  of  butter 
and  lard  into  a  frying  pan;  when  hot,  put  in  the  balls  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Do 
not  freshen  the  fish  before  boiUng  with  the  potatoes.  Many  cooks  fry  them  in  a 
quantity  of  lard  similar  to  boiled  doughnuts. 

STEWED  CODFISH.    (Salt.) 

Take  a  thick,  white  piece  of  salt  codfish,  lay  it  in  cold  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes to  soften  it  a  Uttle,  enough  to  render  it  more  easily  to  be  picked  up.  Shred 
it  in  very  small  bits,  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan  with  cold  water;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  turn  off  this  water  carefully,  and  add  a  pint  of  milk  to  the  fish, 
or  more  according  to  quantity.  Set  it  over  the  fire  again  and  let  it  boil  slowly 
about  three  minutes,  now  add  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter,  a  shake  of  pepper 
and  a  thickening  of  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  enough  cold  milk  to  make  a  cream. 
Stew  five  minutes  longer,  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
The  eggs  are  an  addition  that  could  be  dispensed  with,  however,  as  it  is  very 
good  without  them.    An  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

CODFISH  A  LA  MODE. 

Pick  up  a  teacupful  of  salt  codfish  very  fine,  and  freshen— the  dessicated  i.s 
nice  to  use;  two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one  pint  cream  or  milk,  two  weU-beaten 
eggs,  half  a  cup  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  mix;  bake  in  an  earthen  baking  dish 
from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes;  serve  in  the  same  dish,  placed  on  a  small 
platter,  covered  with  a  fine  napkin. 

BOILED  FRESH  COD. 

Sew  up  the  piece  of  fish  in  thin  cloth,  fitted  to  shape;  boil  in  salted  water 
(boiling  from  the  first),  allowing  about  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.  Carefully 
unwrap,  and  pour  over  it  warm  oyster  sauce.     A  whole  one  boiled  the  same. 

— Hotel  Brighton. 
SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Pick  any  cold  fresh  fish,  or  salt  codfish,  left  from  the  dinner,  into  fine  bits, 
carefully  removing  aU  the  bones. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  suitable  dish,  and  place  it  in  a  sauce-  pan  of  boiling 
water;  put  into  it  a  few  shoes  of  onion,  cut  very  fine,  a  sprig  of  parsley  minced 
fine,  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  white 
pepper,  then  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  or  flour,  rubbed  in  a  little 
cold  milk;  let  all  boil  up  and  remove  from  the  fire.    Take  a  dish  you  wish  to 


56  FJSH. 

serve  it  in,  butter  the  sides  and  bottom.  Put  first  a  layer  of  the  minced  fish, 
then  a  layer  of  the  cream,  then  sprinkle  over  that  some  cracker  or  bread-crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  fish  again,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full;  spread  cracker  or 
bread-crumbs  last  on  the  top,  to  prevent  the  milk  from  scorching. 

This  is  a  very  good  way  to  use  up  cold  fish,  making  a  nice  breakfast  dish,  or 
a  side-dish  for  dinner. 

FISH  FRITTERS. 

Take  a  piece  of  salt  codfish,  pick  it  up  very  fine,  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan,  with 
plenty  of  cold  water;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  turn  off  the  water,  and  add  another  of 
cold  water;  let  this  boil  with  the  fish  about  fifteen  minutes,  very  slowly;  strain 
off  this  water,  making  the  fish  quite  dry,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  In  the  meantime, 
stir  up  a  batter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  f  oiu*  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  large  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder  in  flour,  enough  to  make  thicker  than  batter  cakes.  Stir 
in  the  fish  and  fry  like  any  fritters.  Very  fine  accompaniment  to  a  good  break- 
fast. 

BOILED  SALT  CODFISH.    (New  England  Style). 

Cut  the  fish  into  square  pieces,  cover  with  cold  water,  set  on  the  back  part  of 
the  stove;  when  hot,  pour  off  water  and  cover  again  with  cold  water;  let  it 
stand  about  four  hours  and  simmer,  not  boil ;  put  the  fish  on  a  platter,  then 
cover  with  a  drawn-butter  gravy,  and  serve.  Many  cooks  prefer  soaking  the 
fish  over  night. 

BOILED  CODFISH  AND  OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  salted  water  half  an  hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it,  then 
roll  it  in  a  clean  cloth  dredged  with  flour;  sew  up  the  edges  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  envelope  the  fish  entirely,  yet  have  but  one  thickness  of  cloth  over  any 
part.  Put  the  fish  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted;  add  a  few  whole  cloves 
and  peppers  and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel;  pull  gently  on  the  fins,  and  when  they  come 
out  easily  the  fish  is  done.  Arrange  neatly  on  a  folded  napkin,  ganrish  and 
serve  with  oyster  sauce.  Take  six  oysters  to  every  pound  of  fish  and  scald 
(blanch)  them  in  a  half -pint  of  hot  oyster  liquor;  take  out  the  oysters  and  add  to 
the  Hquor,  ssdt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  mace  and  an  oxmce  of  butter;  whip  into  it  a  gill 
of  milk  containing  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Simmer  a  moment;  add 
the  oysters,  and  send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat.     Egg  sauce  is  good  with  this  fish. 

BAKED  CODFISH. 

K  salt  fish,  soak,  boil  and  pick  the  fish,  the  same  as  for  fish-baUs.  Add  an 
equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes,  or  cold,  boiled,  chopped  potatoes,  a  large 


SHELL-FISH.  5;- 

piece  of  butter,  and  warm  milk  enough  to  make  it  quite  soft.    Put  it  into  a  but 
tered  dish,  rub  butter  over  the  top,  shake  over  a  httle  sifted  flour,  and  bake  about, 
thirty  minutes,  and  until  a  rich  brown.     Make  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter,  wifcfe 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  served  in  a  gravy-boat. 

CODFISH  STEAK.    (New  England  Style.) 

Select  a  medium-sized  fresh  codfish,  cut  it  in  steaks  cross- wise  of  the  fish 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  thick;  sprinkle  a  httle  salt  over  them,  and  let  them 
stand  two  hours.  Cut  into  dice  a  poxmd  of  salt  fat  pork,  fry  out  all  the  fat. 
from  them  and  remove  the  crisp  bits  of  pork;  put  the  codfish  steaks  in  a  pan  of 
com  meal,  dredge  them  with  it,  and  when  the  pork  fat  is  smoking  hot,  fry  the 
steaks  in  it  to  a  dark-brown  color  on  both  sides.  Squeeze  over  them  a  little^ 
lemon  juice,  add  a  dash  of  freshly  ground  pepper,  and  serve  with  hot,  old-fash- 
ioned, weU-buttered  Johnny  Cake. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

One  pound  of  cooked  salmon  (about  one  and  a  half  pints  when  chopped), 
one  cup  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonfiil  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  one  pint  of  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt;  chop  the  salmon  fijie,  mix  the  flour 
and  butter  together,  let  the  cream  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter, 
salmon  and  seasoning;  boil  one  minute;  stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  remove 
from  the  fire;  when  cold  make  into  croquettes:  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs 
and  fry.     Canned  salmon  can  be  used. 


STEWED  WATER  TURTLES,  OR  TERRAPINS. 

Select  the  largest,  thickest  and  fattest,  the  females  being  the  best;  they  ^/ould 
be  alive  when  brought  from  market.  Wash  and  put  them  aUve  into  boiling 
water,  add  a  httle  salt,  and  boil  them  until  thoroughly  done,  or  from  ten  to  fif- 
teen minutes,  after  which  take  oflf  the  shell,  extract  the  meat,  and  remove  care- 
fully the  sand-bag  and  gall;  also  all  the  entrails;  they  are  unfit  to  eat,  and  are 
no  longer  used  in  cooking  terrapins  for  the  best  tables.  Cut  the  meat  into 
pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  its  eggs,  and  sufficient  fresh  butter  to 
stew  it  well.    Let  it  stew  till  quite  hot  throughout,  keeping  the  pan  carefully 


58  SHELL-FISH. 

covered,  that  none  of  the  flavor  may  escape,  but  shake  it  over  the  fire  whfle 
stewing.  In  another  pan  make  a  sauce  of  beaten  yolk  of  ^g,  highly  flavored 
with  Madeira  or  sherry,  and  powdered  nutmeg  and  mace,  a  gill  of  currant  jeUy, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  enriched  with  a  large  lump  of  fresh 
butter.  Stir  this  sauce  well  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  almost  come  to  a  boil, 
take  it  off.  Send  the  terrapins  to  the  table  hot  in  a  covered  dish,  and  the  sauce 
separately  in  a  sauce-tureen,  to  be  used  by  those  who  like  it,  and  omitted  by 
those  who  prefer  the  genuine  fliavor  of  the  terrapins  when  simply  stewed  with 
hutter.  This  is  now  the  usual  mode  of  dressing  terrapins  in  Maryland,  Virginia, 
and  many  other  parts  of  the  South,  and  will  be  f  oimd  superior  to  any  other.  If 
there  are  no  eggs  in  the  terrapin,  "egg  balls"  may  be  substituted.    (See  recipe). 

STEWED  TERRAPIN,  WITH  CREAM. 

Place  in  a  sauce-pan,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  dry 
flour;  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  bubbles;  then  gradually  stir  in  a  pint  of  cream, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  the  same  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  very  small  pinch  of  cayenne.  Next,  put  in  a  pint  of  ter- 
rapin meat  and  stir  all  imtil  it  is  scalding  hot.  Move  the  sauce-pan  to  the  back 
part  of  the  stove  or  range,  where  the  contents  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil;  then 
stir  in  four  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  do  not  allow  the  terrapin  to  boil  after  add- 
ing the  eggs,  but  pour  it  immediately  into  a  tureen  containing  a  gill  of  good 
Madeira  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.    Serve  hot. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN. 

Plunge  the  terrapins  alive  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  remain  rmtil  the 
sides  and  lower  shell  begin  to  crack — this  will  take  less  than  an  horn*;  then  re- 
move them  and  let  them  get  cold;  take  off  the  shell  and  outer  skin,  being  care- 
ful to  save  all  the  blood  possible  in  opening  them.  If  there  are  eggs  in  them  put 
them  aside  in  a  dish;  take  all  the  inside  out,  and  be  very  careful  not  to  break 
the  gall,  which  must  be  immediately  removed  or  it  will  make  the  rest  bitter. 
It  hes  within  the  liver.  Then  cut  up  the  Uver  and  aU  the  rest  of  the  terrapin 
into  small  pieces,  adding  the  blood  and  juice  that  have  flowed  out  in  cutting  up; 
add  half  a  pint  of  water;  sprinkle  a  Uttle  flour  over  them  as  you  place  them  in 
the  stew-pan;  let  them  stew  slowly  ten  minutes,  adding  salt,  black  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  very  small  blade  of  mace;  then  add  a  gill  of  the  best  brandy  and 
half  a  pint  of  the  very  best  sherry  wine ;  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  very 
gently.  About  ten  minutes  or  so,  before  you  are  ready  to  dish  them,  add  half  a 
pint  of  rich  cream,  and  half  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  with  fiour,  to  prevent  boil- 


SHELI^FISH.  59 

ing;  two  or  three  minutes  before  taMng  them  ofif  the  fire,  peel  the  eggs  carefully 

and  throw  them  in  whole.    If  there  should  be  no  eggs  use  the  yolk  of  hens'  eggs, 

hard  boiled.    This  receipt  is  for  four  terrapins. 

— Sennerfs  Hotel,  Baltimore. 

BOILED  LOBSTER. 

Put  a  handful  of  salt  into  a  large  kettle  or  pot  of  boiling  water.  When  the 
water  boils  very  hard,  put  in  the  lobster,  having  first  brushed  it,  and  tied  the 
claws  together  with  a  bit  of  twine.  Keep  it  boiling  from  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour 
in  proportion  to  its  size.  If  boiled  too  long  the  meat  will  be  hard  and  stringy. 
When  it  is  done  take  it  out,  lay  it  on  its  claws  to  drain,  and  then  wipe  it  dry. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  mention  that  the  head  of  a  lobster,  and  what  are 
called  the  lady-fingers,  are  not  to  be  eaten. 

Very  large  lobsters  are  not  the  best,  the  meat  being  coarse  and  tough.  The 
male  is  best  for  boiling;  the  flesh  is  firmer,  and  the  shell  a  brighter  red;  it  may 
readily  be  distinguished  from  the  female;  the  tail  is  narrower,  and  the  two  up- 
I)er-most  fins  within  the  tail  are  stiff  and  hard.  Those  of  the  hen  lobster  are 
not  so,  and  the  tail  is  broader. 

Hen  lobsters  are  preferred  for  sauce  or  salad,  on  account  of  their  coral.  The 
head  and  small  claws  are  never  used. 

They  should  be  alive  and  freshly  caught  when  put  into  the  boiling  kettle. 
After  being  cooked  and  cooled,  split  open  the  body  and  tail,  and  crack  the  claws, 
to  extract  the  meat.  The  sand  pouch  found  near  the  throat  should  be  removed. 
Care  should  be  exercised  that  none  of  the  feathery,  tough,  gill-like  particles 
found  under  the  body  shell  get  mixed  with  the  meat,  as  they  are  indigestible, 
and  have  caused  much  trouble.  They  are  supposed  to  be  the  cause  of  so-called 
poisoning  from  eating  lobster. 

Serve  on  a  platter.  Lettuce,  and  other  concomitants  of  a  salad,  should  also  be 
placed  on  the  table  or  platter. 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTER. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  fine  bread-crumbs;  put  on  this 
a  layer  of  chopped  lobster,  with  pepper  and  salt;  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is 
filled,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Put  on  bits  of  butter,  moisten  with  milk,  and 
bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

DEVILED  LOBSTER. 

Take  out  all  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  reserving  the  coral;  season  highly 
with  mustard,  cayenne,  salt  and  some  kind  of  talle  sauce;  stew  imtil  well  mixed, 


6o  SHELL-FISH. 

and  put  it  in  a  covered  sauce-pan^  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep  from 
burning;  rub  the  coral  smooth,  moistening  with  vinegar  until  it  is  thin  enough 
to  pour  easily,  then  stir  it  into  the  sauce-pan.  The  dressing  should  be  prepared 
before  the  meat  is  put  on  the  fire,  and  which  ought  to  boil  but  once  before  the 
coral  is  put  in;  stir  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  when  it  boils  again  it 
is  done,  and  should  be  taken  up  at  once,  as  too  much  cooking  toughens  the 
meat. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Take  any  of  the  lobster  remaining  from  table,  and  pound  it  until  the  dark, 
light  meat  and  coral  are  well  mixed;  put  with  it  not  quite  as  much  fine  bread- 
cmmbs;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  very  httle  cayenne  pepper;  add  a  Uttle 
melted  butter,  about  two  tablespoonfuls  if  the  bread  is  rather  dry;  form  into 
^g-shaped  or  roimd  balls;  roll  them  in  egg,  then  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boil* 
inglard. 

LOBSTER  PATTIES. 

Cut  some  boiled  lobster  in  small  pieces;  then  take  the  small  daws  and  the 
£fpawn,  put  them  in  a  suitable  dish,  and  jam  them  to  a  paste  with  a  potato 
masher.  Now  add  to  them  a  ladleful  of  gravy  or  both,  with  a  few  bread-crumbs; 
set  it  over  the  fire  and  boil;  strain  it  through  a  strainer,  or  sieve,  to  the  thickness 
of  a  cream,  and  put  half  of  it  to  your  lobsters,  and  save  the  other  half  to  sauce 
them  with  after  they  are  baked.  Put  to  the  lobster  the  bigness  of  an  egg  of 
butter,  a  httle  i)epper  and  salt;  squeeze  in  a  lemon,  and  warm  these  over  the  fire 
enough  to  melt  the  butter,  set  it  to  cool,  and  sheet  your  patty-pan  or  a  plate  or 
dish  with  good  puff  paste;  then  put  in  your  lobster,  and  cover  it  with  a  paste; 
bake  it  within  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  you  want  it;  when  it  is  baked, 
cut  up  your  cover,  and  warm  up  the  other  half  of  your  sauce  above  mentioned, 
with  a  httle  butter,  to  the  thickness  of  cream,  and  pour  it  over  your  patty,  with 
a  httle  squeezed  lemon;  cut  your  cover  in  two,  and  lay  it  on  the  top,  two  inches 
distant,  so  that  what  is  under  may  be  seen.  You  may  bake  crawfish,  shrimps 
or  prawns  the  same  way;  and  they  are  all  proper  for  plates  or  httle  dishes  for  a 
second  course. 

TO  POT  LOBSTERS. 

Take  from  a  hen  lobster  the  spawn,  coral,  flesh,  and  pickings  of  the  head  and 
daws;  pound  weU  and  season  with  cayenne,  white  pepper  and  mace,  according 
to  taste.    Mix  it  to  a  firm  past^  with  good  melted  butter.    Pound  and  season 


SHELL-FISH.  6 1 

the  flesh  from  the  tail  and  put  it  into  a  pot,  and  then  fill  with  the  other  paste. 
Ck)yer  the  top  of  each  pot  with  clarified  butter,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Time,  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  one  hour  to  boil  the  lobster. 

BAKED  CRABS. 

Mix  with  the  contents  of  a  can  of  crabs,  bread-crumbs  or  pounded  crackers. 
Pepper  and  salt  the  whole  to  taste;  mince  some  cold  ham;  have  the  baking-pan 
well  buttered,  place  therein  first  a  layer  of  the  crab  meat,  prepared  as  above, 
then  a  layer  of  the  minced  ham,  and  so  on,  alternating  until  the  pan  is  filled. 
Cover  the  top  with  bread-crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  and  bake. 

DEVILED  CRABS. 

Half  a  dozen  fresh  crabs,  boiled  and  minced,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  powder;  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  the 
meat  into  a  bowl  and  mix  carefully  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs. Work  the  butter  to  a  light  cream,  mix  the  mustard  well  with  it,  then 
stir  in  very  carefully,  a  handful  at  a  time,  the  mixed  crabs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream,  and  crumbs.  Season  to  taste  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt:  fill  the  crab 
shells  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over  the  tops,  put  three  small 
pieces  of  butter  upon  the  top  of  each,  and  brown  them  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 
They  will  puff  in  baking  and  will  be  found  very  nice.  Half  the  quantity  can  be 
made.    A  crab-shell  will  hold  the  meat  of  two  crabs. 

CRAB  CROQUETTES. 

Pick  the  meat  of  boiled  crabs  and  chop  it  fine.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper, 
salt  and  melted  butter.  Moisten  it  well  with  rich  milk  or  cream,  then  stiflfen  it 
slightly  with  bread  or  cracker-crumbs.  Add  two  or  three  well-beaten  eggs  to 
bind  the  mixture.  Form  the  croquettes,  egg  and  bread-crumb  them  and  fry 
them  deUcately  in  boiling  lard.  It  is  better  to  use  a  wire  frying-basket  for  cro- 
quettes of  all  kinds. 

TO  MAKE  A  CRAB  PIE. 

Procure  the  crabs  alive,  and  put  them  in  boiling  water,  along  with  some  salt. 
Boil  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  size. 
When  cold,  pick  the  meat  from  the  claws  and  body.  Chop  aU  together,  and 
mix  it  with  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  butter.  Put  all  this 
into  the  shell,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  A  crab-shell  will  hold  the  meat  of  two 
crabs. 


62  SHELL-FISH. 

CRABS.    (SoftSheU.) 

Crabs  may  be  boiled  as  lobsters.  They  make  a  fine  dish  when  stewed.  Take 
out  the  meat  from  the  shell,  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a 
pinch  of  mace,  and  a  very  little  water;  dredge  with  flour,  and  let  simmer  five 
minutes  over  a  slow  fire.  Serve  hot;  garnish  the  dish  with  the  claws  laid 
around  it. 

The  usual  way  of  cooking  them  is  frying  them  in  plenty  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed;  prepare  them  the  same  as  frying  fish.  The  spongy  substance  from  the 
sides  should  be  taken  off,  also  the  sand  bag.  Fry  a  nice  brown,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters  must  be  fresh  and  fat  to  be  good.  They  are  in  season  from  Septem- 
ber to  May. 

The  small  ones,  such  as  are  sold  by  the  quart,  are  good  for  pies,  fritters,  or 
stews;  the  largest  of  this  sort  are  nice  for  frying  or  pickling  for  family  use. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  large  oysters  from  their  own  liquor  into  a  thickly  folded  napkin  to  dry 
them;  then  make  hot  an  ounce  each  of  butter  and  lard,  in  a  thick  bottom  fry- 
ing-pan. Season  the  oysters  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  dip  each  one  into  egg 
and  cracker-crumbs  rolled  fine,  until  it  will  take  up  no  more.  Place  them  in  the 
hot  grease  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown,  turning  them  on  both  sides  by  sliding 

%  broad-bladed  knife  imder  them.    Serve  them  crisp  and  hot. 

— Boston  Oyster  House. 

Some  prefer  to  roll  oysters  in  corn-meal  and  others  use  flour,  but  they  are 

much  more  crisp  with  egg  and  cracker-crumbs. 

OYSTERS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Ingredients. — i  pint  of  oysters,  2  eggs,  i  pint  of  milk,  sufficient  flour  to  make 
the  batter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  when  liked,  a  little  nutmeg;  hot  lard. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  beard  them,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth 
to  drain  thoroughly.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  mix  the  flour  with  them,  add 
the  milk  gradually,  with  nutmeg  and  seasoning,  and  put  the  oysters  in  a  batter. 
Make  some  lard  hot  in  a  deep  frying-pan;  put  in  the  oysters,  one  at  a  time;  when 
done,  take  them  up  with  a  sharp-pointed  skewer,  and  dish  them  on  a  napkin. 
Fried  oysters  are  frequently  used  for  garnishing  boiled  fish,  and  then  a  few 
bread-crumbs  should  be  added  to  the  floiu:. 


SHELLr-FISH.  63 

STEWED  OYSTERS.    (In  Milk  or  Cream.) 

Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  oysters;  mix  with  it  a  small  teacupful 
of  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce-pan. 
Let  it  boil  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  they 
"ruffle  "  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  The  instant  it  is  melted  and  well 
stirred  in,  put  in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  tal^e  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire. 
Serve  with  oyster  or  cream  crackers.    Serve  while  hot. 

If  thickening  is  preferred,  stir  in  a  little  florn:  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker- 
crumbs. 

PLAIN  OYSTER  STEW. 

Same  as  milk  or  cream  stew,  using  only  oyster  liquor  and  water  instead  of 
milk  or  cream,  adding  more  butter  after  taking  up. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 
For  oyster  soup,  see  Soups. 

DRY  OYSTER  STEW. 

Take  six  to  twelve  large  oysters  and  cook  them  in  half  a  pint  of  their  own 
liquor;  season  with  butter  and  white  pepper;  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly.   Serve  in  hot  soup-plates  or  bowls. 

— Fulton  MarJcety  New  York. 

BOSTON  FRY. 

Prepare  the  oysters  in  egg  batter  and  fine  cracker  meal;  fry  in  butter  over  a 

slow  fire  for  about  ten  minutes;  cover  the  hollow  of  a  hot  platter  with  tomato 

sauce;  place  the  oysters  in  it,  but  not  covering;  garnished  with  chopped  parsley 

sprinkled  over  the  oysters. 

— Boston  Oyster  House. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Dry  a  quart  of  oysters  in  a  cloth,  dip  each  in  melted  butter  weU  peppered; 
then  in  beaten  egg,  or  not,  then  in  bread  or  cracker-crumbs,  also  peppered. 
Broil  on  a  wire  broiler  over  live  coals,  three  to  five  minutes.  Dip  over  each  a 
little  melted  butter.    Serve  hot. 

ROAST  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Select  the  large  ones,  those  usually  termed  ^'  Saddle  Rocks,"  formerly  known 
as  a  distinct  variety,  but  which  are  now  but  the  large  oysters  selected  from  any 
beds;  wash  and  wipe  them,  and  place  with  the  upper  or  deep  shell  down,  to 


.   \ 


64  SHELL-FISH. 

catch  the  juice,  over  or  on  live  coals.  When  they  open  their  shells,  remove  the 
shallow  one,  being  careful  to  save  all  the  juice  in  the  other;  place  them,  shells  and 
all,  on  a  hot  platter,  and  send  to  table  hot,  to  be  seasoned  by  each  person  with 
butter  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  the  oysters  are  fine,  and  they  are  just  cooked 
enough  and  served  all  hot,  this  is,  'par  excellence,  the  style. 

OYSTER  ROAST.    No.  2. 

Put  one  quart  of  oysters  in  a  basin  with  their  own  Uquor  and  let  them  boil 
three  or  four  minutes;  season  with  a  Uttle  salt,  pepper  and  a  heaping  spoonful 
of  butter.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 

Wash  and  drain  a  quart  of  counts  or  select  oysters;  put  them  in  a  shallow 
pan  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water;  cover  and  steam  till  they  are 
plump,  with  the.  edges  rufBed,  but  no  longer.  Place  in  a  heated  dish,  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

— BaUimare  Style. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Wash  and  place  them  in  an  air-tight  vessel,  laying  them  the  upper  shell 
downward,  so  that  the  liquor  will  not  run  out  when  they  open.  Place  this  dish 
or  vessel  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  where  they  will  get  the  steam.  Boil  them 
rapidly  until  the  shells  open,  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Serve  at  once 
while  hot«  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

PAN  OYSTERS.    No.  i. 

Cut  some  stale  bread  in  thin  slices,  taking  off  all  the  crust;  round  the  slices 

to  fit  patty -pans,  toast,  butter,  place  them  in  the  pans  and  moisten  with  three  or 

four  teaspoonfuls  of  oyster  liquor;  place  on  the  toast  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle 

with  pepper,  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  pan;  place  all  the 

pans  in  a  baking-pan,  and  place  in  the  oven,  covering  tightly.    They  will  cook 

in  seven  or  eight  minutes  if  the  oven  is  hot;  or,  cook  till  the  beards  are  ruffled; 

remove  the  covei^  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  replace,  and  cook  one  minute 

longer.  Serve  in  palty-pans.    They  are  delicious. 

—Ifew  York  Siyle. 

PAN  OYSTERS.    No.  2. 

Lay  in  a  thin  pie-tin  or  dripping-pan  half  a  pint  of  large  oysters,  or  more  if 
required;  have  the  pan  large  enough  so  that  each  oyster  will  lie  flat  on  the  hot* 


SHELL-FISH.  65 

torn;  put  in  over  them  a  little  oyster  liquor,  but  not  enough  to  float;  place  them 

carefully  in  a  hot  oven  and  just  heat  them  through  thoroughly — do  not  bake 

them — which  will  be  in  three  to  five  minutes,  according  to  fire;  take  them  up 

and  place  on  toast;  first  moistened  with  the  hot  juice  from  the  pan.    Are  a  very 

good  substitute  for  oysters  roasted  in  the  shell,  the  slow  cooking  bringing  out 

the  flavor. 

— French  Restaurant^  New  Orleans,  La. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Select  plump,  good-sized  oysters;  drain  oflf  the  juice,  and  to  a  cup  of  this 
juice  add  a  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  batter  like  griddle-cakes. 

Envelop  an  oyster  in  a  spoonful  of  this  batter,  (some  cut  them  in  halves  or 
chop  them  fine,)  then  fry  in  butter  and  lard,  mixed  in  a  frying-pan  the  same  as 
we  fry  eggs,  tmning  to  fry  brown  on  both  sides.    Send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

— Delmonico, 

Most  cooks  fry  oyster  fritters  the  same  as  crullers,  in  a  quantity  of  hot 
lard,  but  this  is  not  always  convenient;  either  way  they  are  excellent. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  patty-pans  with  thin  pastry,  pressing  it  well  to  the  tin.  Put  a  piece 
of  bread  or  a  ball  of  paper  in  each.  Cover  them  with  paste  and  brush  them  over 
with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Cut  an  inch  square  of  thin  pastry,  place  on  the 
centre  of  each,  glaze  this  also  with  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes.    Remove  the  bread  or  paper  when  half  cold. 

Scald  as  many  oysters  as  you  require  (allowing  two  for  each  patty,  three  if 
small)  in  their  own  Uquor.  Cut  each  in  four  and  strain  the  liquor.  Put  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  into  a  thick  sauce-pan;  stir  them 
together  over  the  fire  till  the  flour  smells  cooked,  and  then  pour  half  a  pint  of 
oyster  liquor  and  half  a  pint  of  milk  into  the  flour  and  butter.  (If  you  have 
cream,  use  it  instead  of  milk.)  Stir  till  it  is  a  thick,  smooth  sauce.  Put  the 
oysters  into  it  and  let  them  boil  once.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Remove 
the  oysters  for  one  minute  from  the  fire,  then  stir  the  eggs  into  them  till  the 
sauce  looks  hke  thick  custard. 

Fill  the  patties  with  this  oyster  fricassee,  taking  care  to  make  it  hot  by  stand- 
ing in  boiling  water  before  dinner  on  the  day  required,  and  to  make  the  patty 

cases  hot  before  you  fiU  them. 

5 


66  SHELL'FISH. 

FULTON  MARKET  ROAST. 

It  is  still  known  in  New  York  from  the  place  at  which  it  was  and  is  still 
served.  Take  nine  large  oysters  in  the  shell;  wash,  dry  and  roast  over  a  char- 
coal fire,  on  a  broiler.  Two  minutes  after  the  shells  open  they  will  be  done. 
Take  them  up  quickly,  saving  the  juice  in  a  small,  shallow,  tin  pan;  keep  hot 
until  all  are  done;  butter  them  and  sprinkle  with  pepper. 

This  is  served  for  one  person  when  caUing  for  a  roast  of  this  kind.  It  is  often 
I)oured  over  a  sUce  of  toast. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 
Have  ready  about  a  pint  bowl  of  fine  cracker-crumbs.  Butter  a  deep  earthen 
dish;  put  a  layer  of  the  cracker-crumbs  on  the  bottom;  wet  this  with  some  of 
the  oyster  Uquor;  next  have  a  layer  of  oysters;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  lay  small  bits  of  butter  upon  them;  then  another  layer  of  cracker-crumbs 
and  oyster  juice;  then  oysters,  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish 
is  full;  the  top  layer  to  be  cracker-crumbs.  Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  cup  of  millr  and 
turn  over  all.  Cover  the  dish  and  set  it  in  the  oven  for  thirty  or  forty-five  minutes. 
When  baked  through,  uncover  the  top,  set  on  the  upper  grate  and  brown. 

OYSTER  POT-PIE. 

Scald  a  quart  can  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  when  it  boils,  skim  out  the 

oysters  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place.    To  the  liquor  add  a  pint  of  hot  water; 

season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  generous  piece  of  butter,  thicken  with  flour 

and  cold  milk.    Have  ready  nice  light  biscuit  dough,  rolled  twice  as  thick  as 

pie-crust;  cut  out  into  inch  squares,  drop  them  into  the  boiling  stew,  cover  closely, 

and  cook  forty  minutes.     When  taken  up,  stir  the  oysters  into  the  juice  and 

serve  all  together  in  one  dish.    A  nice  side  entr6e. 

— Pr  Mice's  Bat/y  S.L 

BOSTON  OYSTER  PIE. 

Having  buttered  the  inside  of  a  deep  pie-plate,  line  it  with  puff-paste,  or 
common  pie-crust,  and  prepare  another  sheet  of  paste  for  the  lid;  put  a  clean 
towel  into  the  dish  (folded  so  as  to  support  the  lid),  set  it  into  the  oven  and  bake 
the  paste  well;  when  done,  remove  the  hd  and  take  out  the  towel.  While  the 
paste  is  baking  prepare  the  oysters.  Having  picked  off  carefully  every  bit  of 
shell  that  may  be  found  about  them,  drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  pan  and  put  the 
oysters  into  a  stew-pan  with  barely  enough  of  the  liquor  to  keep  them  from 
burning;  season  them  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  add  a  little  sweet  cream 
or  milk,  and  one  or  two  crackers  rolled  fine;  let  the  oysters  simmer,  but  not 


SHELL-FISH.  6  J 

boily  as  that  will  shrivel  them.    Keraove  the  upper  crust  of  pastry  and  fill  the 
dish  with  the  oysters  and  gravy;  replace  the  cover  and  serve  hot. 

Some  prefer  baking  the  upper  crust  on  a  pie-plate,  the  same  size  as  the  pie^ 
then  sUpping  it  off  on  top  of  the  pie  after  the  same  is  filled  with  the  oysters. 

MOCK  OYSTERS. 

Grate  the  com,  while  green  and  tender,  with  a  coarse  grater,  into  a  deep 
dish.  To  two  ears  of  com,  allow  one  egg;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately, 
and  add  them  to  the  com,  with  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  wheat  flour  and  one  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drop  spoonfuls  of  this  batter 
into  a  frying-pan  with  hot  butter  and  lard  mixed,  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides. 

In  taste,  they  have  a  singular  resemblance  to  fried  oysters.  The  com  must 
be  young. 

FRICASSEED  OYSTERS. 

Take  a  slice  of  raw  ham,  which  has  been  pickled,  but  not  smoked,  and  soak 
in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour;  cut  it  in  quite  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  broth,  well  strained;  the  Uquor 
from  a  quart  of  oysters,  one  small  onion,  minced  fine,  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  sweet  marjoram,  and  pepper;  let  them  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
then  boil  rapidly  two  or  three  minutes;  skim  well,  and  add  one  scant  table - 
spoonful  of  corn-starch,  mixed  smoothly  in  one- third  cup  of  milk;  stir  constantly, 
and  when  it  boils  add  the  oysters  and  one  ounce  of  butter;  after  which,  just  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  and  remove  the  oysters  to  a  deep  dish;  beat  one  eggj  and  add 
to  it  gradually  some  of  the  hot  broth,  and,  when  cooked,  stir  it  into  the  pan; 
season  with  salt,  and  pour  the  whole  over  the  oysters.  When  placed  upon  the 
table,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  it. 

SMALL  OYSTER  PIES. 

For  each  pie  take  a  tin  plate  half  the  size  of  an  ordinary  dinner  plate;  butter 
it,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  a  puff  paste,  as  for  pies;  lay  on  it  five  or  six  select 
oysters,  or  enough  to  cover  the  bottom;  butter  them  and  season  with  a  httle  salt 
and  plenty  of  pepper;  spread  over  this  an  egg  batter,  and  cover  with  a  crust  of 
the  paste,  making  small  openings  in  it  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  top  is  nicely  browned. 

— Boston  Oyster  Hon^e. 


68  SHELL-FISH. 

STEWED  CLAMS. 

Wash  clean  as  many  round  clams  as  required;  pile  them  in  a  large  iron  pot, 
with  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water  in  the  bottom,  and  put  over  the  fire;  as  soon  as 
the  shells  open,  take  out  the  clams,  cut  off  the  hard,  uneatable  "  fringe  '^  from 
each,  with  strong,  dean  scissors,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  broth  from 
the  pot,  and  boil  slowly  till  they  are  quite  tender;  pepper  weU,  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour,  stirred  into  melted  butter. 

Or,  you  may  get  two  dozen  freshly  opened  very  small  clams.  Boil  a  pint  of 
milk,  a  dash  of  white  pepper  and  a  small  pat  of  butter.  Now  add  the  clams. 
Let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve.  Longer  boiling  will  make  the  dams  almost 
indigestible. 

ROAST  CLAMS  IN  THE  SHELL. 
Eoast  in  a  pan  over  a  hot  fire,  or  in  a  hot  oven,  or,  at  a  "  Clam  Bake, "  on  hot 
stones;  when  they  open,  empty  the  juice  into  a  sauce-pan;  add  the  clams  with 

butter,  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt. 

— Rye  Beach. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 
Take  fifty  small  or  twenty-five  large  sand  clams  from  their  shells;  if  large, 
cut  each  in  two,  lay  them  on  a  thickly  folded  napkin;  put  a  pint  bowl  of  wheat 
flour  into  a  basin,  add  to  it  three  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
and  nearly  as  much  of  their  own  liquor;  beat  the  batter  imtil  it  is  smooth  and 
perfectly  free  from  lumps;  then  stir  in  the  clams.  Put  plenty  of  lard  or  bsef  fat 
into  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan,  let  it  become  boiling  hot;  put  in  the  batter  by 
the  spoonful;  let  them  fry  gently;  when  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  turn  the 
other. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

The  materials  needed  are  fifty  round  clams  (quahogs),  a  large  bowl  of  salt 
pork,  cut  up  fine,  the  same  of  onions,  finely  chopped,  and  the  same  (or  more,  if 
you  desire,)  of  potatoes  cut  into  eighths  or  sixteenths  of  original  size;  wash  the 
clams  very  thoroughly,  and  put  them  in  a  pot  with  half  a  pint  of  water;  when 
the  shells  are  open  they  are  done;  then  take  them  from  the  shells  and  chop  fine, 
saving  all  the  clam  water  for  the  chowder;  fry  out  the  pork  very  gently,  and 
when  the  scraps  are  a  good  brown,  take  them  out  and  put  in  the  chopped 
onions  to  fry;  they  should  be  fried  in  a  frying-pan,  and  the  chowder-kettle  be 
made  very  clean  before  they  are  put  in  it,  or  the  chowder  will  bum.  (The 
chief  secret  in  chowder-making  is  to  fry  the  onions  so  dehcately  that  they  will 
be  missing  in  the  chowder.) 


SHELLr-FISH.  69 

Add  a  quart  of  hot  water  to  the  onions;  put  in  the  clams^  clam- water  and 
pork  scraps.  After  it  boils,  add  the  potatoes,  and  when  they  are  cooked,  the 
-chowder  is  finished.  Just  before  it  is  taken  up,  thicken  it  with  a  cup  of  pow- 
dered crackers,  and  add  a  quart  of  fresh  milk.  If  too  rich,  add  more  water.  No 
Beasoning  is  needed  but  good  black  pepper. 

With  the  addition  of  six  sliced  tomatoes,  or  half  a  can  of  the  canned  ones^ 
tliis  is  the  best  recipe  of  this  kind,  and  is  sei-ved  in  many  of  our  best  restaurants. 

— Ntw  Bedford  Recipe* 

SCALLOPED  CLAMS. 

Purchase  a  dozen  large  soft  clams  in  the  shell  and  three  dozen  opened  clams. 
Ask  the  dealer  to  open  the  first  dozen,  care  being  used  not  to  injure  the  shells, 
which  are  to  be  used  in  cooking  the  clams.  Clean  the  shells  well,  and  put  two 
fioft  clams  on  each  half  shell;  add  to  each  a  dash  of  white  pepper,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  minced  celery.  Cut  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  into  the  smallest  dice,  add 
four  of  these  to  each  shell,  strew  over  the  top  a  thin  layer  of  cracker-dust;  place 
a  piece  of  table  butter  on  top,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  brown.  They  are 
delightful  when  properly  prepared. 

SCALLOPS. 

K  bought  in  the  shell  boil  them  and  take  out  the  hearts,  which  is  the  only 
part  iised.    Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  the  same  manner  as  oysters. 
Some  prefer  them  stewed  the  same  as  oysters. 

FROGS  FRIED. 

Progs  are  usually  fried,  and  are  considered  a  great  delicacy.  Only  the  hind- 
legs  and  quarters  are  used.  Clean  them  well,  season,  and  fry  in  egg  batter,  or 
dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  fine  cracker-crumbs,  the  same  as  oysters. 

FROGS  STEWED. 

Wash  and  skin  the  quarters,  parboil  them  about  three  minutes,  drain  them. 
Now,  put  into  a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter.  When  it  is  melted,  lay  in  the 
frogs,  and  fry  about  two  minutes,  stirring  them  to  prevent  biurdng;  shake  over 
them  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  and  stir  it  into  them;  add  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
a  pinch  of  powdered  summer  savory,  a  bay  leaf,  three  shces  of  onion,  salt  and 
pepper,  a  cup  of  hot  water  and  one  of  cream.  Boil  gently  until  done;  remove 
the  legs,  strain  and  mix  into  the  gravy  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten  to  a 
cream;  put  the  legs  in  a  suitable  dish,  pour  over  the  gravy  and  serve. 


.  CN^^^e/S*/^  ,  ,  e\ffXoe/5)/0  . 


^&^«xi)'^ '  '  ^fe^^X^"^  ' 


In  choosing  poultry,  select  those  that  are  fresh  and  fat,  and  the  surest  way 
to  determine  whether  they  are  young,  is  to  try  the  skin  under  the  leg  or  wing. 
If  it  is  easily  broken,  it  is  young;  or,  turn  the  wing  backwards,  if  the  joint  yields 
readily,  it  is  tender.  When  poultry  is  young  the  skin  is  thin  and  tender,  the 
legs  smooth,  the  feet  moist  and  Umber,  and  the  eyes  full  and  bright.  The  body 
should  be  thick  and  the  breast  fat.  Old  turkeys  have  long  hairs,  and  the  flesh 
is  purplish  where  it  shows  under  the  skin  on  the  legs  and  back.  About  March 
they  deteriorate  in  quality. 

Young  ducks  and  geese  are  plump,  with  light,  semi-transparent  fat,  soft 
breast -bone,  tender  flesh,  leg- joints  which  will  break  by  the  weight  of  the  bird, 
fresh-colored  and  brittle  beaks,  and  wind -pipes  that  break  when  pressed  between 
the  thumb  and  forefinger.    They  are  best  in  fall  and  winter. 

Toimg  pigeons  have  light  red  flesh  upon  the  breast,  and  full,  fresh-colored 
legs;  when  the  legs  are  thin  and  the  breast  very  dark  the  birds  are  old. 

Fine  game  birds  are  always  heavy  for  their  size;  the  flesh  of  the  breast  is 
firm  and  plump,  and  the  skin  clear;  and  if  a  few  feathers  be  plucked  from  the 
inside  of  the  leg  and  around  the  vent,  the  flesh  of  freshly-killed  birds  will  be  fat 
and  fresh-colored;  if  it  is  dark  and  discolored,  the  game  has  been  hung  a  long 
time.  The  wings  of  good  ducks,  geese,  pheasants,  and  woodcock  are  tender  to 
the  touch;  the  tips  of  the  long  wing  feathers  of  partridges  are  pointed  in  young 
birds  and  roimd  in  old  ones.  Quail,  snipe  and  small  birds  should  have  full, 
tender  breasts.  Poultry  should  never  be  cooked  until  six  or  eight  hours  after  it 
has  been  killed,  but  it  should  be  picked  and  drawn  as  soon  as  possible.  Plunge 
it  in  a  pot  of  scalding  hot  water;  then  pluck  oif  the  feathers,  taking  care  not  to 
tear  the  skin;  when  it  is  picked  clean,  roll  up  a  piece  of  white  paper,  set  fire  to 
it,  and  singe  oflE  all  the  hairs.  The  head,  neck  and  feet  should  be  cut  off,  and 
the  ends  of  the  legs  skewered  to  the  body,  and  a  string  tied  tightly  around  the 
body.    When  roastiag  a  chicken  or  small  fowl  there  is  danger  of  the  legs  brown- 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  71 

ing  or  becoming  too  hard  to  be  eaten.  To  avoid  this,  take  strips  of  cloth,  dip 
them  into  a  little  melted  lard,  or  even  just  rub  them  over  with  lard,  and  wind 
them  aromid  the  legs.  Remove  them  in  time  to  allow  the  legs  to  brown  deli- 
catelv. 

Fowls,  and  also  various  kinds  of  game,  when  bought  at  our  city  markets^ 
require  a  more  thorough  cleansing  than  those  sold  in  country  places,  where  as  a 
general  thing  the  meat  is  wholly  dressed.  In  large  cities  they  lay  for  some 
length  of  time  with  the  intestines  undrawn,  imtil  the  flavor  of  them  diffuses  itself 
all  through  the  meat,  rendering  it  distasteful.  In  this  case,  it  is  safe  after  taking 
out  the  intestines,  to  rinse  out  in  several  waters,  and  in  next  to  the  last  water, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda;  say  to  a  quart  of  water.  This  process  neutral- 
izes all  sourness,  and  helps  to  destroy  all  impleasant  taste  in  the  meat. 

Poultry  may  be  baked  so  that  its  wings  and  legs  are  soft  and  tender,  by  being 
placed  in  a  deep  roasting  pan  with  close  cover,  thereby  retaining  the  aroma  and 
essences  by  absorption  while  confined.  These  pans  are  a  recent  innovation,  and 
are  made  double  with  a  small  opening  in  the  top  for  giving  vent  to  the  accumu- 
lation of  steam  and  gases  when  required.  Eoast  meats  of  any  kind  can  also  be 
cooked  in  the  same  manner,  and  it  is  a  great  improvement  on  the  old  plan. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Select  a  young  turkey;  remove  all  the  feathers  carefully,  singe  it  over  a  burn- 
ing newspaper  on  the  top  of  the  stove;  then  "  draw  "  it  nicely,  being  very  care- 
ful not  to  break  any  of  the  internal  organs;  remove  the  crop  carefully;  cut  off 
the  head,  and  tie  the  neck  close  to  the  body  by  drawing  the  skin  over  it.  Now 
rinse  the  inside  of  the  turkey  out  with  several  waters,  and  in  the  next  to  the 
last,  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda;  oftentimes  the  inside  of  a  fowl  is  very 
sour,  especially  if  it  is  not  freshly  killed.  Soda,  being  cleansing,  acts  as  a  cor- 
rective,  and  destroys  that  unpleasant  taste  which  we  frequently  experience  in  the 
dressing  when  fowls  have  been  killed  for  some  time.  Now,  after  washing,  wipe 
the  turkey  dry,  inside  and  out,  with  a  clean  cloth,  rub  the  inside  with  some  salt, 
then  stuff  the  breast  and  body  with  "  Dressing  for  Fowls.'*  Then  sew  up  the 
turkey  with  a  strong  thread,  tie  the  legs  and  wings  to  the  body,  rub  it  over  with 
a  little  soft  butter,  sprinkle  over  some  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  a  little  flour; 
place  it  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  in  the  oven. 
Baste  the  turkey  often,  turning  it  around  occasionally  so  that  every  part  will  be 
uniformly  baked.  When  pierced  with  a  fork  and  the  liquid  runs  out  perfectly 
dear^  the  bird  i^  done-     If  any  part  is  likely  to  scorch,  pin  over  it  a  piece  of  but- 


72  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

tered  white  paper.     A  fifteen-pound  turkey  requires  between  three  and  four 
hours  to  bake.    Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 

Qravy  for  Turkey.— Whsu  you  put  the  turkey  in  to  roast,  put  the  neck, 
heart,  liver  and  gizzard  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  water;  boil  until  they 
become  quite  tender;  take  them  out  of  the  water,  chop  the  heart  and  gizzard, 
mash  the  liver  and  throw  away  the  neck;  return  the  chopped  heart,  gizzard  and 
liver  to  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  stewed;  set  it  to  one  side,  and  when  the 
tinrkey  is  done  it  should  be  added  to  the  gravy  that  dripped  from  the  turkey, 
having  first  skimmed  off  the  fat  from  the  smface  of  the  dripping-pan;  set  it  all 
over  the  fire,  boil  three  minutes  and  thicken  with  flour.  It  will  not  need  brown 
floin:  to  color  the  gravy.  The  garnishes  for  turkey  or  chicken  are  fried  oysters, 
thin  slices  of  ham,  slices  of  lemon,  fried  sausages,  or  force-meat  balls,  also 
X>arsley. 

DRESSING  OR  STUFFING  FOR  FOWLS. 

For  an  eight  or  ten  pound  turkey,  cut  the  brown  crust  from  slices  or  pieces 
of  stale  bread  until  you  have  as  mudi  as  the  inside  of  a  pound  \oal\  put  it  into  a 
suitable  dish,  and  pour  tepid  water  (not  warm,  for  that  makes  it  heavy)  over  it; 
let  it  stand  one  minute,  as  it  soaks  very  quickly.  Now  take  up  a  handful  at  a 
time  and  squeeze  it  hard  and  dry  with  both  hands,  placing  it,  as  you  go  along,  in 
another  dish;  this  process  makes  it  veiy  light.  When  all  is  pressed  dry,  toss  it 
all  up  lightly  through  your  fingers;  now  add  pepper,  salt, — about  a  teaspoonful 
— also  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  simimer  savory,  the  same  amount  of  sage,  or 
the  green  herb  minced  fine;  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  a  beaten  egg, 
or  not.  Work  thoroughly  all  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  dressing  either  fowls, 
fish  or  meats.  A  little  chopped  sausage  in  turkey  dressing  is  considered  by  some 
an  improvement,  when  well  incorporated  with  the  other  ingredients.  For  geese 
and  ducks  the  stuffing  may  be  made  the  same  as  for  turkey  with  the  addition 
of  a  few  slices  of  onion  chopped  fine. 

OYSTER   DRESSING  OR  STUFFING. 

This  is  made  with  the  same  ingredients  as  the  above,  with  the  exception  of 
half  a  can  of  oysters  drained,  and  slightly  chopped  and  added  to  the  rest.  This 
is  used  mostly  with  boiled  turkey  and  chicken,  and  the  remainder  of  the  can  of 
oysters  used  to  make  an  oyster  sauce  to  be  poured  over  the  turkey  when  served; 
served  generally  in  a  separate  dish,  to  be  dipped  out  as  a  person  desires. 

These  recipes  were  obtained  from  an  old  colored  cook,  who  was  famous  for 
his  fine  dressings  for  fowls,  fish  and  meats,  and  his  advice  was,  always  soak 


FO  UL TR  Y  AND  GAME.  73 

stale  bread  in  cold  liquid,  either  milk  or  water,  when  used  for  stuffing  or  for  pud- 
dings, as  they  were  much  lighter.    Hot  liquid  makes  them  heavy. 

BOILED  TURKEY. 

Prepare  as  you  would  for  baking  or  roasting;  fill  with  an  oyster  stufiSng, 
made  as  the  above.  Tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body,  place  in  salted 
boihng  water  with  the  breast  downward;  skim  it  often  and  boil  about  two 
hours,  but  not  till  the  skin  breaks.  Serve  with  oyster  or  celery  sauce.  Boil  a 
nicely  pickled  piece  of  salt  pork,  apd  serve  at  table  a  thin  slice  to  each  plate. 
Some  prefer  bacon  or  ham  instead  of  pork. 

Some  roll  the  turkey  in  a  cloth  dipped  in  flour.  If  the  liquor  is  to  be  used 
afterwards  for  soup,  the  cloth  imparts  an  unpleasant  flavor.  The  liquor  can  be 
saved  and  made  into  a  nice  soup  for  the  next  day's  dinner,  by  adding  the  same 
seasonings  as  for  chicken  soup. 

TURKEY  SCALLOP. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  cold  turkey,  and  chop  it  fine.  Put  a  layer 
of  bread-crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish,  moisten  them  with  a  little 
milk,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  turkey  with  some  of  the  fiUing,  and  cut  small  pieces 
of  butter  over  the  top;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  another  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full;  add  a  Uttle  hot  water  to 
the  gravy  left  from  the  tiu'key  and  pour  over  it;  then  take  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  one  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt  and  cracker-crumbs  as  much 
as  will  make  it  thick  enough  to  spread  on  with  a  knife;  put  bits  of  butter  over 
it,  and  cover  with  a  plate.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Ten  minutes  before 
serving,  remove  the  plate  and  let  it  brown. 

TURKEY  HASHED. 

Cut  the  remnants  of  turkey  from  a  previous  dinner  into  pieces  of  equai  size. 
Boil  the  bones  in  a  quart  of  water,  until  the  quart  is  reduced  to  a  pint;  then  take 
out  the  bones,  and  to  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled  add  turkey  gravy, 
if  you  have  any,  or  white  stock,  or  a  small  piece  of  butter  with  salt  and  pepper; 
let  the  liquor  thus  prepared  boil  up  once;  then  put  in  the  pieces  of  turkey,  dredge 
in  a  Uttle  flour,  give  it  one  boil-up,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

TURKEY  WARMED  OVER. 

Pieces  of  cold  turkey  or  chicken  may  be  warmed  up  with  a  little  butter  in  a 
frying-pan;  place  it  on  a  warm  platter,  surround  it  with  pieces  of  small  thick 
slices  of  bread  or  biscuit  halved,  first  dipping  them  in  hot  salted  water;  then 


74  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

place  the  platter  in  a  warm  oven  with  the  door  open.    Have  already  made  the 
following  gravy  to  poiu"  over  all: 

Into  the  frying-pan  put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  one  or  two  cupfuls  of 
milk,  and  any  gravy  that  may  be  left  over.  Bring  it  to  a  boil;  then  add  suflB- 
dent  flour,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water,  to  make  it  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  add  a  Uttle  of  the  dark  meat  chopped  very 
fine.  Let  the  sauce  cook  a  few  moments;  then  pour  over  the  biscuit  and  fowl. 
This  will  be  found  a  really  nice  dish. 

BONED  TURKEY. 

dean  the  fowl  as  usual.  With  a  sharp  and  pointed  knife,  begin  at  the 
extremity  of  the  wing,  and  pass  the  knife  down  close  to  the  bone,  cutting  all  the 
flesh  from  the  bone,  and  preserving  the  skin  whole;  run  the  knife  down  each 
side  of  the  breast  bone  and  up  the  legs,  keeping  close  to  the  bone;  then  spUt  the 
back  half  way  up,  and  draw  out  the  bones;  fill  the  places  whence  the  bones 
were  taken  with  a  stufiing,  restoring  the  fowl  to  its  natural  form,  and  sew  up 
all  the  incisions  made  in  the  skin.  Lard  with  two  or  three  rows  of  slips  of  fat 
bacon  on  the  top,  basting  often  with  salt  and  water,  and  a  httle  butter.  Some 
like  a  glass  of  port  wine  in  the  gravy. 

This  is  a  difficult  dish  to  attempt  by  any  but  skillful  hands.  Carve  across 
in  slices,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

The  goose  should  not  oe  more  than  eight  months  old,  and  the  fatter  the  more 
tender  and  juicy  the  meat.  Stuff  with  the  following  mixture:  Three  pints  of 
bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  of  butter,  or  part  butter  and  part  salt  pork,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  sage,  black  pepper  and  salt,  one  chopped  onion.  Do  not  stuff 
very  full,  and  stitch  openings  firmly  together  to  keep  flavor  in  and  fat  out. 
Place  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  httle  water,  and  baste  frequently  with  salt  and 
water  (some  add  vinegar);  turn  often  so  that  the  sides  and  back  may  be  nicely 
browned.  Bake  two  hours  or  more;  when  done  take  from  the  pan,  pour  off  the 
fat,  and  to  the  brown  gravy  left,  add  the  chopped  giblets  which  have  previously 
been  stewed  until  tender,  together  with  the  water  they  were  boiled  in;  thicken 
with  a  little  floiu*  and  butter  rubbed  together,  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve.  English 
style. 

ROAST  CHICKEN. 

Kck  and  draw  them,  wash  out  well  in  two  or  three  waters,  adding  a  httle  soda 
to  the  last  but  one  to  sweeten  it.  if  there  is  doubt  as  to  its  being  fresh.    Dry  it 


POULTRY  AND  GAME,  75 

well  with  a  clean  cloth^  and  fill  the  crop  and  body  with  a  stuffing  the  same  as 
"  Dressing  for  Fowls."  Lay  it  in  a  dripping-pan;  put  a  pint  of  hot  water  and  a 
piece  of  butter  in  the  dripping-pan,  add  to  it  a  small  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt,  and  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  baste  frequently,  and  let  it  roast  quickly,  without 
scorching;  when  nearly  done,  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  to  the 
water  in  the  pan;  when  it  melts,  baste  with  it,  dredge  a  Uttle  flour  over,  baste 
again,  and  let  it  finish;  half  an  hour  will  roast  a  full-grown  chicken,  if  the  fire 
is  right.    When  done,  take  it  up. 

Having  stewed  the  necks,  gizzards,  livers  and  hearts  in  a  very  little  water, 
strain  it  and  mix  it  hot  with  the  gravy  that  has  dripped  from  the  fowls,  and 
which  must  be  first  skimmed.  Thicken  it  with  a  httle  browned  flour,  add  to  it 
the  hvers,  hearts  and  gizzards  chopped  smaU.  Or,  put  the  giblets  in  the  pan 
with  the  chicken,  and  let  them  roast.  Send  the  fowls  to  the  table  with  the 
gravy  in  a  boat.    Cranberry  sauce  should  accompany  them,  or  any  tart  sauce. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

Clean,  wash  and  stuff,  as  for  roasting.  Baste  a  floured  cloth  around  each, 
and  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  well.  The  hot 
water  cooks  the  skin  at  once  and  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juice.  The  broth 
will  not  be  so  rich  as  if  the  fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water,  but  this  is  a  proof 
that  the  meat  will  be  more  nutritious  and  better  flavored.  Stew  very  slowly, 
for  the  first  half  hour  especially.  Boil  an  hour  or  more,  guidiug  yoinrself  by 
size  and  toughness.    Serve  with  egg,  bread,  or  oyster  sauce.    (See  Sauces.) 

STEAMED  CHICKEN. 

Rub  the  chicken  on  the  inside  with  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
place  in  a  steamer  in  a  kettle  that  will  keep  it  as  near  the  water  as  possible, 
cover,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half;  when  done,  keep  hot  while  dressing  is 
prepared,  then  cut  up,  arrange  on  the  platter,  and  serve  with  the  dressing  over 
them. 

The  dressing  is  made  as  follows:  Boil  one  pint  of  gravy  from  the  kettle  with- 
out the  fat,  add  cayenne  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  flour  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream  until  smooth,  and  add  to  the  gravy. 
Com  starch  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flom-,  and  some  cooks  add  nutmeg  or 
celery  salt. 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  just  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  them.     Cover  closely,  and  let  them  heat  very  slowly;  then  stew 


76  PO  UL  TR  y  AND  GAME. 

them  over  an  nour,  or  until  tender.  K  they  are  old  chickens,  they  will  require 
long,  slow  boiUng,  often  from  three  to  four  hours.  When  tender,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  and  a  httle  celery,  if  liked. 
Stir  up  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  water  or  milk,  and  add  to  the  stew, 
also  two  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  let  all  boil  up  one  minute;  arrSmge  the  chicken 
on  a  warm  platter,  pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  it,  and  send  the  rest  to  the  table 
in  a  boat.  The  egg  should  be  added  to  a  httle  of  the  cooled  gravy,  before  putting 
with  the  hot  gravy. 

STEWED  WHOLE  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Dress  a  full-grown  spring  chicken  the  same  as  for  roasting,  seasoning  it  with 
salt  and  pepper  inside  and  out;  then  fill  the  body  with  oysters;  place  it  in  a  tin 
pail  with  a  close-fitting  cover.  Set  the  paU  in  a  pot  of  fast-boiling  water  and 
cook  imtil  the  chicken  is  tender.  Dish  up  the  chicken  on  a  warm  dish,  then 
pour  the  gravy  into  a  sauce-pan,  put  into  it  a  tablespoonful  jf  butter,  half  of  a 
cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine;  some  minced 
herbs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Let  all  boil  up  and  then  pour  it  over  the 
chicken.    Serve  hot. 

PICKLED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  four  chickens  till  tender  enough  for  meat  to  fall  from  bones:  put  meat 
in  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  cold,  good  cider  vinegar  and  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  the  water  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled;  add  spices  if  preferred, 
and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  days.  This  is  a  popular  Sunday  evening  dish; 
it  is  good  for  luncheon  at  any  time. 

RISSOLES  OP  CHICKEN. 

Mince  up  finely  the  remains  of  a  cold  chicken  together  with  half  the  quan- 
tity of  lean,  cold  ham.  Mix  them  well,  adding  enough  white  sauce  to  moisten 
them.  Now  have  light  paste  rolled  out  until  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  or  a 
little  more  in  thickness.  Cut  the  paste  into  pieces,  one  inch  by  two  in  size,  and 
lay  a  httle  of  the  mixture  upon  the  centres  of  half  of  the  pieces  and  cover  them 
with  the  other  halves,  pressing  the  edges  neatly  together  and  forming  them  into 
httle  rolls.  Have  your  frying-pan  ready  with  plenty  of  boiling  hot  lard,  or  other 
frying  medium,  and  fry  until  they  become  a  golden -brown  color.  A  minute  or 
two  will  be  sufficient  for  this.  Then  drain  them  well  and  serve  inmiediately  on 
a  napkin. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  77 

CHICKEN  PATTIES. 

Mince  up  fine  cold  chicken,  either  roasted  or  boiled.  Season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  minced  parsley  and  onion.  Moisten  it  with  chicken  gravy 
or  cream  sauce,  fill  scalloped  shells  that  are  lined  with  pastry  with  the  mixture, 
and  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over  the  tops.  Put  two  or  three  tiny  pieces  of  butter 
over  each,  and  bake  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

TO  BROIL  CHICKEN. 

After  dressing  and  washing  the  chickens  as  previously  directed,  spht  them 
open  through  the  back-bone;  frog  them  by  cutting  the  cords  under  the  wings 
and  laying  the  wings  out  flat;  cut  the  sinews  under  the  second  joint  of  the  leg 
and  turn  the  leg  down;  press  down  the  breast-bone  without  breaking  it. 

Season  the  chicken  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  it  upon  the  gridiron  with  the 
inside  first  to  the  fire;  put  the  gridiron  over  a  slow  fire,  and  place  a  tin  sheet  and 
weight  upon  the  chicken,  to  keep  it  flat;  let  it  broil  ten  minutes,  then  turn  and 
proceed  in  the  same  manner  with  the  other  side. 

The  chicken  should  be  perfectly  cooked,  but  not  scorched.  A  broiled  chicken 
brought  to  the  table  with  its  wings  and  legs  burnt,  and  its  breast  half  cooked,  is 
very  disagreeable.  To  avoid  this,  the  chicken  must  be  closely  watched  while 
broiling,  and  the  fire  must  be  arranged  so  that  the  heat  shaU  be  equally  dis- 
pensed. When  the  fire  is  too  hot  under  any  one  part  of  the  chicken,  put  a  little 
ashes  on  the  fire  imder  that  part,  that  the  heat  may  be  reduced. 

Dish  a  broiled  chicken  on  a  hot  plate,  putting  a  large  lump  of  butter  and  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  hot  water  upon  the  plate,  and  turning  the  chicken  two  or 
three  times  that  it  may  absorb  as  much  of  the  butter  as  possible.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  Serve  with  poached  eggs  on  a  separate  dish.  It  takes  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes  to  broil  a  chicken  well. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  When  the  chickens  are  stewed  tender, 
seasoned,  and  the  gravy  thickened,  take  it  from  the  fire;  take  out  the  largest 
bones,  scrape  the  meat  from  the  neck  and  back-bone,  throw  the  bones  away; 
line  the  sides  of  a  four  or  six  quart  pudding-dish  with  a  rich  baking  powder  or  soda 
biscuit-dough,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  put  in  part  of  the  chicken,  a  few 
lumps  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  if  needed,  some  cold  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices. 
Add  the  rest  of  the  chicken  and  season  as  before;  a  few  new  potatoes  in  their 
season  might  be  added.    Poinr  over  the  gravy,  being  sure  to  have  enough  to 


78  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

fill  the  dish,  and  cover  with  a  crust  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  made  with  a  hole 
in  the  centre  the  size  of  a  teacup. 

Brush  over  the  top  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  bake  for  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Gfamish  the  top  with  small  bright  celery  leaves,  neatly 
arranged  in  a  circle. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Wash  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken,  wipe  it  dry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  it  with  flour,  or  dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker-crumbs. 
Have  in  a  frying-pan,  one  ounce  each  of  butter  and  sweet  lard,  made  boiling  hot. 
Lay  in  the  chicken  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Take  up,  drain  them,  and  set 
aside  in  a  covered  dish.  Stir  into  the  gravy  left,  if  not  too  much,  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  make  it  smooth,  add  a  cup  of  cream  or  nulk,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Some  like  chopped  parsley 
added  to  the  gravy.     Serve  hot. 

If  the  chicken  is  old,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  simmer 
gently  till  tender;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour  or  cracker-crumb  and 
Qgg,  and  fry  as  above.  Use  the  broth  the  chicken  was  cooked  in  to  make  the 
gravy  instead  of  the  cream  or  milk,  or  use  an  equal  quantity  of  both. 

FRIED  CHICKEN  A  LA  ITALIENNE. 

Make  common  batter;  mix  into  it  a  cupful  of  chopped  tomatoes,  one  onion 
chopped,  some  minced  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  up  young  fender  chickens, 
dry  them  well  and  dip  each  piece  in  the  batter;  then  fry  brown  in  plenty  of  butter, 
in  a  thick  bottom  frying-pan.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES.    No.  i. 

Put  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk  in  a  sauce-pan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it 
boils  add  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Let  it  boil  up  thick;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool,  mix 
into  it  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  bit  of  minced  onion 
or  parsley,  one  cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  a  pint  of  finely-chopped  cooked 
chicken,  either  roasted  or  boiled.  Lastly,  beat  up  two  eggs  and  work  in  with  the 
whole.  Floin:  your  hands  and  make  into  small,  round,  flat  cakes;  dip  in  egg 
and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  like  flsh-cakes,  in  butter  and  good  sweet  lard  mixed, 
or  like  fried  cakes  in  plenty  of  hot  lard.  Take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay 
them  on  brown  paper  to  free  them  from  the  grease.    Serve  hot. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  79 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES.    No.  2. 

Take  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  or  fowl,  chop  very  fine,  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  smoothly  mashed  potatoes,  mix,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  black  pepper,  a 
little  prepared  mustard,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper;  make  into  cakes,  dip  in  egg 
and  bsead-crumbs  and  fry  a  light  brown.  A  nice  relish  for  tea. 

TO  FRY  CROQUETTES. 

Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  deep  bowl;  roll  enough  crackers  until  you  have  a  cup- 
ful of  crumbs,  or  the  same  of  fine  stale  bread-crumbs;  spread  the  crumbs  on  a 
large  plate  or  pie-tin.  Have  over  the  fire  a  kettle  containing  two  or  three  inches 
of  boiling  lard.  As  fast  as  the  croquettes  are  formed,  roll  them  in  the  crumbs, 
then  dip  them  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  again  roll  them  in  crumbs;  drop  them  in 
the  smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  them  a  Ught  golden  brown. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  cut  up  your  chickens.  Stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
When  nearly  cooked,  season  them  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  them  stew 
down  until  the  water  is  nearly  all  boiled  out,  and  the  meat  drops  easily  from  the 
bones.  Remove  the  bones  and  gristle;  chop  the  meat  rather  coarsely,  then  tiun 
it  back  into  the  stew-kettle,  where  the  broth  was  left  (after  skimming  off  all  fat), 
and  let  it  heat  through  again.  Turn  it  into  a  square  bread-pan,  placing  a  platter 
on  the  top,  and  a  heavy  weight  on  the  platter.  This,  if  properly  prepared,  will 
turn  out  like  a  mold  of  jeUy  and  may  be  shced  in  smooth,  even  slices.  The  suc- 
cess of  this  depends  upon  not  having  too  much  water;  it  will  not  jelly  if  too  weak, 
or  if  the  water  is  allowed  to  boil  away  entirely  while  cooking.  A  good  way  to 
cook  old  fowls. 

CHICKEN  LUNCH  FOR  TRAVELLING. 

Cut  a  young  chicken  down  the  back;  wash  and  wipe  dry;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  put  in  a  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quai1;ers 
of  an  hour.  This  is  much  better  for  travelling  lunch  than  when  seasoned  with 
butter. 

All  kinds  of  poultry  and  meat  can  be  cooked  quicker  by  adding  to  the  water 
in  which  they  are  boiled  a  Uttle  vinegar  or  a  piece  of  lemon.  By  the  use  of  a 
little  acid  there  will  be  a  considerable  saving  of  fuel,  as  well  as  shortening  of 
time.  Its  action  is  beneficial  on  old  tough  meats,  rendering  them  quite  tender 
and  easy  of  digestion.     Tainted  meats  and  fowls  will  lose  their  bad  taste  and 


80  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

odor  if  cooked  in  this  way,  and  if  not  used  too  freely  no  taste  of  it  will  be 
acquired. 

POTTED  CHICKEN. 

Strip  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold,  roast  fowl;  to  every  pound  of  meat 
allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  pounded  mace,  hsdf  a  small  nutmeg.  Cut  the  meat  into  small 
pieces,  pound  it  well  with  the  butter,  sprinkle  in  the  spices  gradually,  and  keep 
pounding  until  reduced  to  a  perfectly  smooth  paste.  Pack  it  into  small  jars 
and  cover  with  clarified  butter,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Two  or 
three  slices  of  ham,  minced  and  pounded  with  the  above,  wiU  be  an  improve- 
ment.   Keep  in  a  dry  place.    A  luncheon  or  breakfast  dish. 

Old  fowls  can  be  made  very  tender  by  putting  into  them,  while  boiUng,  a 
piece  of  soda  as  large  as  a  bean. 

SCALLOPED  CHICKEN. 

Divide  a  fowl  into  joints  and  boil  till  the  meat  leaves  the  bone  readily.  Take 
out  the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  as  small  as  dice.  Thicken  the  water  in  which 
the  fowl  was  boiled  with  flour,  and  season  to  taste  with  butter  and  salt.  Fill  a 
deep  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread-crumbs  and  chicken  and  shoes  of  cooked 
potatoes,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Poxu*  the  gravy  over  the  top,  and  add  a  few 
bits  of  butter  and  bake  till  nicely  browned.  There  should  be  gravy  enough  to 
moisten  the  dish.  Serve  with  a  garnish  of  parsley.  Tiny  new  potatoes  are  nice 
in  place  of  sliced  ones,  when  in  season. 

BREADED  CHICKEN. 

Prepare  yoimg  chickens  as  for  fricassee  by  cutting  them  into  pieces.  Dip 
each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  bread-crumbs  or  rolled  cracker;  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  httle  minced  parsley.  Place  them  in  a  baking- 
])an,  and  put  on  the  top  of  each  piece  a  lump  of  butter,  add  half  of  a  cupful  of 
hot  water;  bake  slowly,  basting  often.  When  sufficiently  cooked  take  up  on  a 
warm  platter.  Into  the  pan  pour  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs.  Stir  it  well  until  cooked  then  pour  it  over  the  chicken.  Serve 
while  hot. 

BROILED  CHICKEN  ON  TOAST. 

Broil  the  usual  way,  and  when  thoroughly  done  take  it  up  in  a  square  tin  or 
dripping-pan,  butter  it  weU,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes.    Lay  slices  of  moistened  buttered  toast  on  a  platter;  take  the 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  8 1 

chicken  up  over  it,  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  part  of  a  cupful  of  cream,  if  you 
have  it;  if  not,  use  milk.    Thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 
This  is  considered  most  excellent. 

CURRY  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  weighing  from  a  pound  and  a  half  to  two  pounds,  as  for 
fricassee,  wash  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it; 
boil  it  closely  covered,  until  tender;  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  a  few 
minutes  longer;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  chicken,  pour  the  liquor 
into  a  bowl,  and  set  it  one  side.  Now  cut  up  into  the  stew-pan  two  small  onions, 
and  fry  them  with  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg;  as  soon  as  the  onions  are 
brown,  skim  them  out  and  put  in  the  chicken;  fry  for  three  or  four  minutes; 
next  sprinkle  over  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Curry  Powder.  Now  pom:  over  the  liquor 
in  which  the  chicken  was  stewed,  stir  all  well  together,  and  stew  for  five  minutes 
longer,  then  stir  into  this  a  tablespoonf ul  of  sifted  flour  made  thin  with  a  Uttle 
water;  lastly,  stir  in  a  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  it  is  done. 

Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice  laid  roimd  on  the  edge  of  a  platter,  and  the  chicken 
curry  in  the  centre. 

This  makes  a  handsome  side  dish,  and  a  fine  relish  accompanying  a  full 
dinner  of  roast  beef  or  any  roast. 

AD  first-class  grocers  and  druggists  keep  this  '*  India  Curry  Powder,"  put 
up  in  bottles.  Beef j  veal,  mutton,  duck,  pigeons,  partridges,  rabbits  or  fresh 
fish  may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken,  if  preferred,  and  sent  to  the  table  with 
or  without  a  dish  of  rice. 

To  Boil  Rice  for  Curry. — Pick  over  the  rice,  a  cupful.  Wash  it  thoroughly 
in  two  or  three  cold  waters;  then  leave  it  about  twenty  minutes  in  cold  water. 
Put  into  a  stew-pan  two  quai-ts  of  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  it,  and 
when  it  boils,  sprinkle  in  the  rice.  Boil  it  briskly  for  twenty  minutes,  keeping 
the  pan  covered.  Take  it  from  the  fire,  and  drain  off  the  water.  Afterwards 
set  the  sauce-pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  with  the  lid  off,  to  allow  the  rice  to 
dry  and  the  grains  to  separate. 

Rice,  if  properly  boiled,  should  be  soft  and  white,  and  every  grain  stand 
alone.  Serve  it  hot  in  a  separate  dish  or  served  as  above,  laid  around  the  chicken 
curry. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE.    No.  i. 

Cut  and  joint  a  large  chicken,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently 

until  tender.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  two 

6 


82  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed  smooth  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  %^. 
Have  ready  nice  light  bread-dough;  cut  with  the  top  of  a  wineglass  about  half 
an  inch  thick;  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  and  rise,  then  drop  these  into  the 
boiling  gravy.  Put  the  cover  on  the  pot  closely,  wrap  a  cloth  around  it,  in  order 
that  no  steam  shall  escape;  and  by  no  means  allow  the  pot  to  cease  boiling.  Boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE.    No.  2. 

This  style  of  pot-pie  was  made  more  in  our  grandmother^s  day  than  now,  as 
most  cooks  consider  that  cooking  crust  so  long  destroys  its  spongey  Ughtness,and 
renders  it  too  hard  and  dry. 

Take  a  pair  of  fine  fowls;  cut  them  up,  wash  the  pieces,  and  season  with 
pepper  only.  Make  a  light  biscuit  dough,  and  plenty  of  it,  as  it  is  always  much 
liked  by  the  eaters  of  pot-pie.  Boll  out  the  dough  not  very  thin,  and  cut  most 
of  it  into  long  squares.  Butter  the  sides  of  a  pot,  and  line  them  with  dough 
nearly  to  the  top.  Lay  shces  of  cold  ham  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  then  the 
pieces  of  fowl,  interspersed  all  through  with  squares  of  dough  and  potatoes, 
pared  and  quartered.  Pour  in  a  quart  of  water.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  Ud  of 
dough,  having  a  sht  in  the  centre,  thi'ough  which  the  gravy  will  bubble  up. 
Boil  it  steadily  for  two  hours.  Half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  up,  put  in 
through  the  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  crust  some  bits  of  butter  roUed  in  flour,  to 
thicken  the  gravy.  When  done,  put  the  pie  on  a  large  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

You  inay  intersperse  it  all  through  with  cold  ham. 

A  pot-pie  may  be  made  of  ducks,  rabbits,  squirrels,  or  venison.  Also  of  beef- 
steak. A  beef- steak,  or  some  pork-steaks  (the  lean  only),  greatly  improve  a 
chicken  pot-pie.    If  you  use  no  ham,  season  with  salt. 

CHICKEN  STEWED,  WITH  BISCUIT. 

Take  chickens,  and  make  a  fricassee;  just  before  you  are  ready  to  dish  it  up, 
have  ready  two  baking- tins  of  rich  soda  or  baking-powder  biscuits;  take  them 
from  the  oven  hot,  split  them  apart  by  breaking  them  with  your  hands,  lay  them 
on  a  large  meat  platter,  covering  it,  then  pour  the  hot  chicken  stew  over  alL 
Send  to  the  table  hot.  This  is  a  much  better  way  than  boiling  this  kind  of 
biscuit  in  the  stew,  as  you  are  more  sure  of  its  being  always  Ught. 

CHICKEN  DRESSED  AS  TERRAPIN. 

Select  young  chickens,  clean  and  cut  them  into  pieces;  put  them  into  a  stew* 
pan  with  just  enough  water  to  cook  them.    When  tender  stir  into  it  half  of  a 


PO  UL  TR  Y  AND  GAME.  83 

cap  of  butter  and  one  beaten  egg.  Season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  teaspoonful 
of  powdered  thyme;  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs  coarsely  minced  and  a  small  glass 
of  wine.    Boil  up  once  and  serve  with  jeDy. 

CHICKEN   ROLY-POLY. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  tartar  mixed  with  the  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teacupful  of  milk;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
do  not  use  shortening  of  any  kind,  but  roll  out  the  mixture  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  on  it  lay  minced  chicken,  veal  or  mutton.  The  meat  must  be  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  be  free  from  gristle.  EoU  the  crust  over  and  over,  and  put 
it  on  a  buttered  plate  and  place  in  a  steamer  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  for  break- 
fast or  liinch,  giving  a  slice  to  each  person  with  gravy  served  with  it. 

CHICKEN  TURNOVERS. 

Chop  cold  roast  chicken  very  fine.  Put  it  into  a  sauce-pan,  place  it  over  the 
fire,  moisten  it  with  a  Uttle  water  and  gravy,  or  a  piece  of  butter.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  a  small  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  dissolved  in  a  httle 
water;  heat  all  through,  and  remove  from  the  fire  to  become  cool.  When  cooled 
roll  out  some  plain  pie-crust  quite  thin,  cut  out  in  rounds  as  large  as  a  saucer; 
wet  the  edge  with  cold  water,  and  put  a  large  spoonful  of  the  minced  meat  on 
one-half  of  the  round;  fold  the  other  half  over,  and  pinch  the  edges  well  together, 
then  fry  them  in  hot  drippings  or  fat,  a  nice  brown.  They  may  also  be  cooked 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHICKEN  PUDDING. 

Cut  up  two  yoimg  chickens  into  good- sized  pieces;  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  well.  When  boiled  quite  tender,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  let  them  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer;  then  take 
the  chicken  from  the  broth  and  remove  all  the  large  bones.  Place  the  meat  in 
a  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  season  again,  if  necessary,  adding  a  few  bits  of 
butter.    Pour  over  this  the  following  batter: 

Eight  eggs  beaten  light  and  mixed  with  one  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  large  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking 
powder,  added  to  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  batter  Uke  griddle-cakes. 

Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Make  a  gravy  of  the  broth  that  remained  from  the  cooking  of  the  chicken, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stirred  into  a  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  let 
it  bofl  up,  putting  in  more  water,  if  necessary.  Serve  hot  in  a  gravy  boat,  with 
the  pudding. 


84  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

CHICKEN  AND  MACCARONI. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  very  tender,  take  out  all  the  bones,  and  pick  up  the  meat 
quite  fine.  Boil  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  until  tender,  first  breaking  it  up  to 
pieces  an  inch  long.  Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish,  put  on  the  bottom  a  layer  of 
the  cooked  maccaroni,  then  a  layer  of  the  minced  chicken,  bits  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  then  some  of  the  chicken  liquor,  over  this  put  another  layer  of  macca- 
roni, and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  a  cup  of  cream  over  the  whole, 
and  bake  half  an  hour.    Serve  on  a  platter. 

ROAST  DUCK.    (Tame.) 

Pick,  draw,  dean  thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  the  neck  dose  to  the  back, 
beat  the  breast-bone  flat  with  a  rolling-pin,  tie  the  wings  and  l^s  securely,  and 
stuff  with  the  following: 

Three  pints  bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  butter,  or  part  butter  and  salt  pork, 
two  chopped  onions  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  sage,  black  pepper  and  salt. 
Do  not  stuff  very  full,  and  sew  up  the  openings  firmly  to  keep  the  flavor  in  and 
the  fat  out.  If  not  fat  enoughs  it  should  be  larded  with  salt  pork,  or  tie  a  slice 
upon  the  breast.  Place  in  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water,  and  baste  frequently 
with  salt  and  water— some  add  onion,  and  some  vinegar;  txun  often,  so  that  the 
sides  and  back  may  all  be  nicely  browned.  When  nearly  done,  baste  with 
butter  and  a  Uttle  flour.  These  directions  will  apply  to  tame  geese  as  well  as 
ducks.  Young  ducks  should  roast  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  and  full- 
grown  ones  for  an  hour  or  more,  with  frequent  basting.  Some  prefer  them 
underdone  and  served  very  hot;  but,  as  a  rule,  thorough  cooking  will  prove  more 
palatable.  Make  a  gravy  out  of  the  neck  and  gizzards  by  putting  them  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water,  that  must  be  reduced  to  a  pint  by  boiling.  The  giblets, 
when  done,  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  the  juice.  The  preferred  season- 
ings  are  one  table-spoonful  of  Madeira  or  sherry,  a  blade  of  mace,  one  small 
onion,  and  a  Uttle  cayenne  pepper;  strain  through  a  hair  sieve;  pour  a  little  over 
the  ducks  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  boat.  Served  with  jellies  or  any  tart 
sauce. 

BRAISED  DUCKS. 

Prepare  a  pair  of  fine  young  ducks,  the  same  as  for  roasting,  place  them  in  a 
stew-pan  together  with  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon,  a  carrot,  an  onion  stuck 
with  two  cloves,  and  a  little  thyme  and  parsley.  Season  with  pepper,  and  cover 
the  whole  with  a  broth,  adding  to  the  broth  a  gill  of  white  wine.    Place  the  pan 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  85 

over  a  gentle  fire  and  allow  the  ducks  to  sunnier  until  done,  basting  them  fre- 
quently. When  done  remove  them  from  the  pan,  and  place  them  where  they 
win  keep  hot.  A  tiunip  should  then  be  cut  up  and  fried  in  some  butter.  When 
nicely  browned,  drain  the  pieces  and  cook  them  until  tender  in  the  liquor  in 
which  the  ducks  were  braised.  Now  strain  and  thicken  the  gravy,  and  after 
dishing  up  the  ducks,  pour  it  over  them,  garnishing  with  the  pieces  of  turnip. 

— Palmer  House y  Cliicago. 

STEWED  DUCK. 

Prepare  them  by  cutting  them  up  the  same  as  chicken  for  fricassee.  Lay 
two  or  three  very  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  upon  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan;  lay  the 
pieces  of  duck  upon  the  pork.  Let  them  stew  slowly  for  an  hour,  closely  cov- 
ered. Then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage, 
or  some  green  sage  minced  fine;  one  chopped  onion.  Stew  another  half  hour 
until  the  duck  is  tender.  Stir  up  a  large  tablespoonf  ul  of  brown  flour  in  a  Uttle 
water  and  add  it  to  the  stew.    Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  all  together  in  one  dish, 

accompanied  with  green  peas. 

— Palmer  House,  Chicago. 

DUCK  PIE. 

Cut  all  the  meat  from  cold  roast  ducks;  put  the  bones  and  stufling  into  cold 
water;  cover  them  and  let  boil;  put  the  meat  into  a  deep  dish;  pour  on  enough  of 
the  stock  made  from  the  bones  to  moisten;  cover  with  pastry  slit  in  the  centre 
with  a  knife,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

WARMED  UP  DUCK. 

A  nice  dish  for  breakfast,  and  very  relishing,  can  be  made  from  the  remains 
of  a  roast  of  duck.  Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  pick  out  all  the  little  tidbits 
in  the  recesses,  lay  them  in  a  frying-pan,  and  cover  with  water  and  the  cold 
gravy  left  from  the  roast;  add  a  piece  of  butter;  let  all  boil  up  once  and  if  not 
quite  thick  enough,  stir  in  a  Uttle  dissolved  flour.     Serve  hot. 

ROAST  WILD  DUCK. 

Wild  duck  should  not  be  dressed  too  soon  after  being  killed.  If  the  weather 
is  cold  it  will  be  better  for  being  kept  several  days.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  letting 
it  remain  for  five  or  ten  minutes  without  basting  to  keep  in  the  gravy,  then 
baste  frequently  with  butter  and  water.  If  over-done  it  loses  flavor,  30  to  40 
minutes  in  the  right  kind  of  an  oven  being  sufficient.  Serve  on  a  very  hot  dish, 
and  send  to  table  as  hot  as  possible  with  a  cut  lemon  and  the  following  sauce: 


86  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Put  in  a  tiny  sauce-pan  a  tablespoonful  each  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and 

mushroom  catsup,  a  httle  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 

lemon.     Mix  well,  make  it  hot,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful 

of  made  mustard.    Pour  into  a  hot  gravy  boat. 

— Oalifomia  Style,  Lick  Bouse. 

WILD  DUCKS. 

Most  wild  ducks  are  apt  to  have  the  flavor  of  fish,  and  when  in  the  hands  of 
inexperienced  cooks  are  sometimes  unpalatable  on  this  account.  Before  roasting 
them,  parboil  them  with  a  small  peeled  carrot  put  within  each  duck.  This 
absorbs  the  unpleasant  taste.  An  onion  will  have  the  same  effect,  but  unless  you 
use  onions  in  the  stufBng,  the  carrot  is  preferable.  Boast  the  same  as  tame 
duck.  Or  put  into  the  duck  a  whole  onion  peeled,  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  glass  of  claret,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  the  gravy  it 
yields  in  cooking  and  a  dish  of  currant  jeUy. 

CANVAS-BACK  DUCK. 

The  epicurean  taste  declares  that  this  special  kind  of  bird  requires  no  spices 

or  flavors  to  make  it  perfect,  as  the  meat   pai*takes  of  the  flavor  of  the  food 

that  the  bird  feeds  upon,  being  mostly  wild  celery;  and  the  delicious  flavor  is 

best  preserved  when  roasted  quickly  with  a  hot  fire.    After  dressing  the  duck 

in  the  usual  way,  by  plucking,  singing,  drawing,  wipe  it  with  a  wet  towel,  truss 

the  head  under  the  wing;  place  it  in  a  dripping-pan,  put  it  in  the  oven,  basting 

often,  and  roast  it  half  an  hour.    It  is  generally  preferred  a  httle  underdone. 

Place  it  when  done  on  a  hot  dish,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  it 

the  gravy  it  has  yielded  in  baking  and  serve  it  immediately  while  hot. 

— Delmonico. 

ROAST  PIGEONS. 

Pigeons  lose  their  flavor  by  being  kept  more  than  a  day  after  they  are  killed. 
They  may  be  prepared  and  roasted  or  broiled  the  same  as  chickens;  they  will 
require  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  cooking.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  giblets  or 
not,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  a  Uttle  floxu*  and  butter. 

STEWED  PIGEONS. 

Clean  and  stuff  with  onion  dressing,  thyme,  etc., — do  not  sew  up;  take  five 
or  more  slices  of  corned  pork,  let  it  fry  a  while  in  a  pot  so  that  the  fat  comes  out 
and  it  begins  to  brown  a  httle;  then  lay  the  pigeons  all  around  in  the  fat,  leaving 
the  pork  still  in;  add  hot  water  enough  to  partially  cover  them;  cover  tightly 
and  boil  an  hour  or  so  until  tender;  then  turn  off  some  of  the  Uquid,  and  keep 


FOULTR  Y  AND  GAME,  5 ^ 

turning  them  so  they  will  brown  nicely;  then  heat  and  add  the  Uquor  poured 
oflf ;  add  extra  thyme,  pepper,  and  keep  turning  until  the  pigeons  and  gravy  are 
nicely  browned.  Thicken  with  a  Uttle  flour,  and  serve  with  the  gravy  poiured 
over  them;  garnish  with  parsley. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Take  half  a  dozen  pigeons;  stuff  each  one  with  a  dressing  the  same  as  for 
turkey;  loosen  the  joints  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  separate  them.  Put  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them,  let  them  cook  until  nearly  tender, 
then  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour,  remove  and  cool.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  line  the  sides  with  a  rich  crust. 
Have  ready  some  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Put  in  a  layer  of  egg  and  birds 
and  gravy  until  the  dish  is  full.    Cover  with  a  crust  and  bake, 

BROILED  PIGEONS  OR  SQUABS. 

SpUt  them  down  the  back  and  broil  the  same  as  chicken;  seasoning  well  with 
salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter.  Broil  slices  of  salt  pork,  very  thin;  place  a 
slice  over  each  bird  and  serve. 

SQUAB  POT-PIE. 

Cut  into  dice  three  ounces  of  salt  pork;  divide  six  wild  squabs  into  pieces,  at 
the  joints;  remove  the  skin.  Cut  up  four  potatoes  into  small  squares,  and  pre- 
pare a  dozen  small  dough  balls. 

Put  into  a  yellow,  deep  baking-dish  the  pork,  potatoes  and  squabs,  and  then 

the  balls  of  dough;  season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  a  dash  of  mace  or  nutmeg; 

add  hot  water  enough  to  cover  the  ingredients,  cover  with  a  "  short  '*  pie-crust 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

— Pdlmer  House,  Chicago. 

WOODCOCK,  ROASTED. 

Skin  the  head  and  neck  of  the  bird,  pluck  the  feathers,  and  truss  it  by  bring- 
ing the  beak  of  the  bird  under  the  wing,  and  fastening  the  pinion  to  the  thigh; 
twist  the  legs  at  the  knuckles  and  press  the  feet  upon  the  thigh.  Put  a  piece  of 
bread  under  each  bird  to  catch  the  drippings,  baste  with  butter,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  roast  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  with  a  sharp  fire.  When  done,  cut 
the  bread  in  diamond  shape,  each  piece  large  enough  to  stand  one  bird  upon, 
place  them  aslant  on  your  dish,  and  serve  with  gravy  enough  to  moisten  the 
bread;  serve  some  in  the  dish  and  some  in  the  tureen;  garnish  with  shoes  of 
lemon.    Roast  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 


88  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

SNIPE. 

Snipe  are  similar  to  woodcock,  and  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner;  they 
will,  require  less  time  to  roast. 

REED  BIRDS. 

Pick  and  draw  them  very  carefully,  salt  and  dredge  with  flour,  and  roast 
with  a  quick  fire  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  on  toast  with  butter  and  pepper. 
You  can  put  in  each  one  an  oyster  dipped  in  butter  and  then  in  bread-crumbs 
before  roasting.    They  are  also  very  nice  broiled. 

ROAST  QUAIL. 
Rinse  well  and  steam  over  boiling  water  until  tender,  then  dredge  with  flour, 
and  smother  in  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roast  inside  the  stove; 
thicken  the  gravy;  serve  with  green  grape  jelly,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

TO  ROAST  PARTRIDGES,  PHEASANTS,  QUAILS  OR  GROUSE. 

Carefully  cut  out  aU  the  shot,  wash  thoroughly  but  quickly,  using  soda  in  the 
water;  rinse  again,  and  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  Stuff  them  and  sew  them  up. 
Skewer  the  legs  and  wings  to  the  body,  larder  the  breast  with  very  thin  slices  of 
fat  salt  pork,  place  them  in  the  oven,  and  baste  with  butter  and  water  before 
taking  up,  having  seasoned  them  with  salt  and  pepper;  or  you  can  leave  out  the 
pork  and  use  only  butter,  or  cook  them  without  stuffing.  Make  a  gravy  of  the 
drippings  thickened  with  browned  flour.     Boil  up  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

These  are  all  very  fine  broiled,  first  spUtting  down  the  back,  placing  on  the 
gridiron  the  inside  down,  cover  with  a  baking  tin,  and  broil  slowly  at  first. 
Serve  with  cream  gravy. 

GAME  PIE. 

Clean  well,  inside  and  out,  a  dozen  small  birds,  quail,  snipe,  woodcock,  etc., 
and  split  them  in  half;  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  about  two  quarts  of  water; 
when  it  boils,  skim  off  all  scum  that  rises;  then  add  salt  and  pepper,  a  bunch  dt 
minced  parsley,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  and  three  whole  cloves.  Cut  up  half  a 
poimd  of  salt  pork  into  dice,  and  let  all  boil  until  tender,  using  care  that  there 
be  enough  water  to  cover  the  birds.  Tliicken  this  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour  and  let  it  boil  up.  Stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  potatoes  cut  as  small 
as  dice,  and  a  rich  crust  made.  Line  the  sides  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish  with 
the  crust;  lay  in  the  birds,  then  some  of  the  potatoes,  then  birds  and  so  on,  until 
the  dish  is  full.    Pour  over  the  gravy,  put  on  the  top  crust,  with  a  slit  cut  in  the 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  89 

centre,  and  bake.    The  top  can  be  ornamented  with  pastry  leaves  m  a  wreath 
about  the  edge,  with  any  fancy  design  placed  in  the  centre  across  the  sUt. 

— Rockaway  Beach. 

SNOW  BIRDS. 

One  dozen  thoroughly  cleaned  birds;  stuff  each  with  an  oyster,  put  them  into 
a  yellow  dish,  and  add  two  ounces  of  boiled  salt  pork  and  three  raw  potatoes  cut 
into  slices;  add  a  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  an  oimce  of  butter;  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
the  dish  with  a  crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SQUIRREL. 

They  are  cooked  similar  to  rabbits,  are  excellent  when  broiled  or  made  into 
a  stew,  and,  in  fact,  are  very  good  in  all  the  different  styles  of  cooking  similar  to 
rabbit. 

There  are  many  species  common  to  this  coimtry;  among  them  the  black,  red, 
gray  and  fox.  Oophers  and  chipmxmks  may  also  be  classed  as  another  but 
smaller  variety 

ROAST  HARE  OR  RABBIT. 

A  very  close  relationship  exists  between  the  hare  and  the  rabbit,  the  chief 
difference  being  in  the  smaller  size  and  shorter  legs  and  ears  of  the  latter.  The 
manner  of  dressing  and  preparing  each  for  the  table  is,  therefore,  pretty  nearly 
the  same.  To  prepare  them  for  roasting,  first  skin,  wash  well  in  cold  water  and 
rinse  thoroughly  in  lukewarm  water.  K  a  httle  musty  from  being  emptied 
before  they  were  hung  up,  and  afterward  neglected,  111b  the  insides  Math  vin^ar 
and  afterward  remove  all  taint  of  the  acid  by  a  thorough  washing  in  lukewarm 
water.  After  being  well  wiped  with  a  soft  cloth  put  in  a  dressing  as  usual,  sew 
the  animal  up,  truss  it,  and  roast  for  a  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  until 
well  browned,  basting  it  constantly  with  butter  and  dredging  with  floiu*,  just 
before  taking  up. 

To  make  a  gravy,  after  the  rabbits  are  roasted,  pour  nearly  aU  the  fat  out  of 
the  pan,  but  do  not  pour  the  bottom  or  brown  part  of  the  drippings;  put  the  pan 
over  the  fire,  stir  into  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  until  the  flour 
browns.  Then  stir  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Season  the  gravy  with  salt  and 
pepper;  let  it  boil  for  a  moment.  Send  hot  to  the  table  in  a  tureen  with  the  hot 
rabbits.    Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

FRICASSEE  RABBIT. 

Clean  two  young  rabbits,  cut  into  joints,  and  soak  in  salt  and  water  half  an 
hour.     Put  into  a  sauce-i)an  with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 


90  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

an  onion  finely  minced,  a  pinch  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and 
half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  in  small  thin  slices.  Cover  and  stew  \mtil  tender. 
Take  out  the  rabbits  and  set  in  a  dish  where  they  will  keep  warm.  Add  to  the 
gravy  a  cup  of  cream  (or  milk),  two  well-beaten  eggs,  stirred  in  a  Httle  at  a  time, 
a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  and  a  thickening  made  of  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour 
and  a  little  milk.  Boil  up  once;  remove  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  pour  over  the  rabbits.  Do  not 
cook  the  head  or  neck. 

FRIED  RABBIT. 

After  the  rabbit  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed,  put  it  into  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes;  drain  it,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  into  joints,  dip 
into  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  all  are  ready,  fry  them  in  butter  and  sweet  lard,  mixed  over  a  moderate 
fire  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Take  them  out,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  flour,  turn  in  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream;  let  all  boil  up,  and  turn  over  the 
rabbits.    Serve  hot  with  onion  sauce.    (See  Sauces.)   Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

RABBIT  PIE. 

This  pie  can  be. made  the  same  as  '^Game  Pie,"  exceptiiog  you  scatter 
through  it  four  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  sUces.  Cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit 
in  the  middle,  and  bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top  should  it  brown 
too  fast. 

BROILED  RABBITS. 

After  skinning  and  cleaning  the  rabbits,  wipe  them  dry,  spht  them  down  the 
back  lengthwise,  pound  them  flat,  then  wrap  them  in  letter  paper  well  buttered, 
place  them  on  a  buttered  gridiron,  and  broil  over  a  clear,  brisk  fire,  turning  them 
often.  When  sufiidently  cooked,  remove  the  papers,  lay  them  on  a  very  hot 
platter,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter,  turning  them  over  and 
over  to  soak  up  the  butter.    Cover  and  keep  hot  in  a  warming  oven  until  served. 

SALMI  OF  GAME. 

This  is  a  nice  mode  of  serving  the  remains  of  roasted  game,  but  when  a 
superlative  salmi  is  desired,  the  birds  must  be  scarcely  more  than  half  roasted 
for  it.  In  either  case,  carve  them  very  neatly,  and  strip  every  particle  of  skin 
and  fat  from  the  legs,  wings  and  breasts;  bruise  the  bodies  well,  and  put  them 
with  the  skin  and  other  trimmings  into  a  very  clean  stew-pan.  K  for  a  simple 
and  inexpensive  dinner,  merely  add  to  them  two  sliced  onions,  a  bay-leaf,  a  small 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  91 

l>lade  of  mace  and  a  few  peppercorns;  then  pour  in  a  pint  or  more  of  good  veal 
gravy,  or  strong  broth,  and  boil  it  briskly  until  reduced  nearly  half;  strain  the 
gravy,  pressing  the  bones  well  to  obtain  all  the  flavor;  skim  off  the  fat,  add  a 
little  cayenne  and  lemon  juice,  heat  the  game  very  gradually  in  it,  but  do  not 
on  any  account  allow  it  to  boil;  place  pieces  of  fried  bread  round  a  dish,  arrange 
the  birds  in  good  form  in  the  centre,  give  the  sauce  a  boil,  and  pour  it  on  them. 

ROAST  HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 

To  prepare  a  haunch  of  venison  for  roasting,  wash  it  slightly  in  tepid  water, 

and  dry  it  thoroughly  by  rubbing  it  with  a  clean,  soft  cloth.    Lay  over  the  fat 

side  a  large  sheet  of  thickly  buttered  paper,  and  next  a  paste  of  floin:  and  water 

about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  cover  this  again  with  two  or  three  sheets 

of  stout  paper,  secure  the  whole  well  with  twine,  and  put  down  to  roast,  with  a 

little  water,  in  the  dripping-pan.    Let  the  fire  be  clear  and  strong;  baste  the 

paper  immediately  with  butter  or  clarified  drippings,  and  roast  the  joint  from 

three  to  four  hours,  according  to  its  weight  and  quality.    Doe  venison  will 

require  half  an  hour  less  time  than  buck  venison.    About  twenty  minutes  before 

the  joint  is  done  remove  the  paste  and  paper,  baste  the  meat  in  every  part  with 

butter,  and  dredge  it  very  lightly  with  flour;  let  it  take  a  pale  brown  color,  and 

serve  hot  with  unflavored  gravy  made  with  a  thickening,  in  a  tureen  and  good 

currant  jelly.    Venison  is  much  better  when  the  deer  has  been  killed  in  the 

autumn,  when  wild  berries  are  plentiful,  and  it  has  had  abundant  opportunities 

to  fatten  upon  this  and  other  fresh  food. 

—  Windsor  Hotel,  Montreal. 

BROILED  VENISON  STEAK. 

Venison  steaks  should  be  broiled  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  often.  It  requires 
more  cooking  than  beef.  When  sufficiently  done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  melted  with  a  piece  of  butter. 
Serve  hot  on  hot  plates. 

DeUcious  steaks,  con^esponding  to  the  shape  of  mutton  chops,  are  cut  from 
the  loin. 

BAKED  SADDLE  OF  VENISON. 

Wash  the  saddle  carefully;  see  that  no  hairs  are  left  dried  on  to  the  outside. 
Use  a  saddle  of  venison  of  about  ten  pounds.  Cut  some  salt  pork  in  strips  about 
two  inches  long,  and  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  with  which  lard  the  saddle 
with  two  rows  on  each  side.  Li  a  large  dripping-pan  cut  two  carrots,  one  onion, 
and  some  salt  pork  in  thin  slices;  add  two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  foxu:  kernels 


92  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

of  allspice,  half  a  lemon,  sliced,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  place  the  saddle* 
of  venison  in  the  pan,  with  a  quart  of  good  stock,  boiling  hot,  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  let  it  boil  about  fifteen  minutes  on  top  of  the  stove;  then  put  it  in 
a  hot  oven  and  bake,  basting  weU  every  five  minutes,  until  it  is  medium  rare,  so 
that  the  blood  runs  when  cut;  serve  with  jelly  or  a  wine  sauce.  K  the  venison 
is  desired  weU  done,  cook  much  longer,  and  use  a  cream  sauce  with  it,  or  stir 
cream  into  the  venison  gravy.    (For  cream  sauce  see  Sauces.) 

Venison  should  never  be  roasted  unless  very  fat.  The  shoulder  is  a  roasting 
piece,  and  may  be  done  without  the  paper  or  paste. 

In  ordering  the  saddle  request  the  butcher  to  cut  the  ribs  off  pretty  dose,  as^ 
the  only  part  that  is  of  much  account  is  the  tenderloin  and  thick  meat  that  lies 
along  the  backbone  up  to  the  neck.  The  ribs  which  extend  from  this  have  very 
little  meat  on  them,  but  are  always  sold  with  the  saddle.  When  neatly  cut  off' 
they  leave  the  saddle  in  a  better  shape,  and  the  ribs  can  be  put  into  your  stock- 
pot  to  boil  for  soup. 

—  Windsor  Hotel,  MotUreaL 

VENISON  PIE  OR  PASTRY. 

The  neck,  breast  and  shoulder  are  the  parts  used  for  a  venison  pie  or  pastry; 
Cut  the  meat  into  pieces  (fat  and  lean  together)  and  put  the  bones  and  trim- 
mings into  the  stew-pan  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  water  or  veal  broth  enough 
to  cover  it.    Simmer  it  till  you  have  drawn  out  a  good  gravy.    Then  strain  it. 

In  the  meantime  make  a  good  rich  paste,  and  roll  it  rather  thick.  Cover  the-, 
bottom  and  sides  of  a  deep  dish  with  one  sheet  of  it,  and  put  in  your  meat,, 
having  seasoned  it  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  mace.  Pour  in  the  gravy 
which  you  have  prepared  from  the  trimmings,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine.  Lay- 
on  the  top  some  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  the  pie  with  a  thick  hd  of 
paste  and  ornament  it  handsomely  with  leaves  and  flowers  formed  with  a  tin. 
cutter.  Bake  two  or  more  horn's  according  to  the  size.  Just  before  it  is  done, 
puU  it  forward  in  the  oven,  and  brush  it  over  with  beaten  egg;  push  it  back  and: 

let  it  slightly  brown. 

—  Windsor  Hotel,  MontreaL 

VENISON  HASHED. 

Cut  the  meat  in  nice  small  slices,  and  put  the  trimmings  and  bones  into  a. 
sauce-pan  with  barely  water  enough  to  cover  them.   Let  them  stew  for  an  hour. 
Then  strain  the  liquid  into  a  stew-pan;  add  to  it  some  bits  of  butter,  rolled  in 
flour,  and  whatever  gravy  was  left  of  the  venison  the  day  before.    Stir  in  some^ 
currant  jelly,  and  give  it  a  boil  up.    Then  put  in  the  meat,  and  keep  it  over  the^ 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  93 

fire  just  long  enough  to  warm  it  through;  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  as  it  has 
been  once  cooked  already. 

FRIED   VENISON  STEAK. 

Cut  a  breast  of  venison  into  steaks;  make  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  hot 
in  a  pan;  rub  the  steaks  over  with  a  mixture  of  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  dip  them 
in  wheat  flour,  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  a  rich  brown;  when  both  sides  are 
done,  take  them  up  on  a  dish,  and  put  a  tin  cover  over;  dredge  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  into  the  butter  in  the  pan,  stir  it  with  a  spoon  imtil  it  is  brown, 
without  burning;  put  to  it  a  small  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  currant  jelly  dissolved  into  it;  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  it  over 
the  meat,  and  serve.  A  glass  of  wine,  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  white  sugar  dis- 
solved in  it,  may  be  used  for  the  gravy,  instead  of  the  jelly  and  water.  Venison 
may  be  boiled,  and  served  with  boiled  vegetables,  pickled  beets,  etc. ,  and  sauce. 


In  the  selection  of  meat  it  is  most  essential  that  we  imderstand  how  to  choose 
it;  in  beef  it  should  be  a  smooth,  fine  grain,  of  a  clear  bright  red  color,  the  fat 
white,  and  will  feel  tender  when  pinched  with  the  fingers.  Will  also  have 
abundant  kidney  fat  or  suet.  The  most  choice  pieces  for  roast  are  the  sirloin, 
fore  and  middle  ribs. 

Veal,  to  be  good,  should  have  the  flesh  firm  and  dry,  fine  grained  and  of  a 
delicate  pinkish  color,  and  plenty  of  kidney  fat;  the  joints  stiflf. 

Mutton  is  good  when  the  flesh  is  a  bright  red,  firm  and  juicy  and  a  dose 
grain,  the  fat  firm  and  white. 

Pork:  if  young,  the  lean  will  break  on  being  pinched  smooth  when  nipped 
with  the  fingers,  also  the  skin  will  break  and  dent;  if  the  rind  is  rough  and  hard 
it  is  old. 

In  roasting  meat,  allow  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  which 
will  vary  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  roast.  A  great  deal  of  the  success  in 
roasting  depends  on  the  heat  and  goodness  of  the  fire;  if  put  into  a  cool  oven  it 
loses  its  juices,  and  the  result  is  a  tough,  tasteless  roast;  whereas,  if  the  oven  is 
of  the  proper  heat,  it  immediately  sears  up  the  pores  of  the  meat  and  the  juices 
are  retained. 

The  oven  should  be  the  hottest  when  the  meat  is  put  into  it,  in  order  to 
quickly  crisp  the  surface  and  close  the  pores  of  the  meat,  thereby  confining  its 
natural  juices.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  to  hold  the  hand  in  for  only  a  moment, 
then  the  oven  is  right  to  receive  the  meat.  The  roast  should  first  be  washed  in 
pure  water,  then  wiped  dry  with  a  clean  dry  cloth,  placed  in  a  baking-pan, 
without  any  seasoning;  some  pieces  of  suet  or  cold  drippings  laid  under  it,  but 
no  water  should  be  put  into  the  pan,  for  this  would  have  a  tendency  to  soften  the 
outside  of  the  meat.  The  water  can  never  get  so  hot  as  the  hot  fat  upon  the 
surface  of  the  meat,  and  the  generating  of  the  steam  prevents  its  crispness,  so 
desirable  in  a  roast. 


MEATS.  95 

It  should  be  frequently  basted  with  its  own  drippings  which  flow  from  the  meat 
when  partly  cooked  and  well  seasoned.  Lamb,  veal  and  pork  should  be  cooked 
rather  slower  than  beef,  with  a  more  moderate  fire,  covering  the  fat  with  a  piece 
of  paper,  and  thoroughly  cooked  till  the  flesh  parts  from  the  bone;  and  nicely 
browned,  without  being  burned.  An  onion  sliced  and  put  on  top  of  a  roast 
while  cooking,  especially  roast  of  pork,  gives  a  nice  flavor.  Remove  the  onion 
before  serving. 

Larding  meats  is  drawing  ribbons  of  fat  pork  through  the  upper  surface  of 
the  meat,  leaving  both  ends  protruding.  This  is  accompUshed  by  the  use  of  a 
larding -needle,  which  may  be  prociu^d  at  house-furnishing  stores. 

Boiling  or  stewing  meat,  if  fresh,  should  be  put  into  boiling  water,  closely 
covered,  and  boiled  slowly^  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound,  and  when 
partly  cooked,  or  when  it  begins  to  get  tender,  salted,adding  spices  and  vegetables. 

Salt  meats  should  be  covered  with  cold  water,  and  require  thirty  minutes  very 
slow  boiling,  from  the  time  the  water  boils,  for  each  pound;  if  it  is  very  salt, 
pour  off  the  first  water,  and  put  it  in  another  of  boiling  water,  or  it  may  be 
soaked  one  night  in  cold  water.  After  meat  commences  to  boil,  the  pot  should 
never  stop  simmering  and  always  be  replenished  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle. 

Frying  may  be  done  in  two  ways:  one  method,  which  is  most  generally  used, 
is  by  putting  one  ounce  or  more  (as  the  case  requires)  of  beef  drippings,  lard  or 
butter,  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  at  the  boiling  pointy  laying  in  the  meat, 
cooking  both  sides  a  nice  brown.  The  other  method  is  to  completely  immerse 
the  article  to  be  cooked  in  suflBcient  hx)t  lard  to  cover  it,  similar  to  frying 
doughnuts. 

Broiled  meats  should  be  placed  over  clear,  red  coals,  free  from  smoke,  giving 
out  a  good  heat,  but  not  too  brisk  or  the  meat  will  be  hardened  and  scorched; 
but  if  the  fire  is  dead,  the  gravy  will  escape,  and  drop  upon  the  coals,  creating  a 
blaze,  which  will  blacken  and  smoke  the  meat.  Steaks  and  chops  should  be 
turned  often,  in  order  that  every  part  should  be  evenly  done— never  sticking  a 
fork  into  the  lean  part,  as  that  lets  the  juices  escape;  it  should  be  put  into  the 
outer  skin  or  fat.  When  the  meat  is  sufficiently  broiled,  it  should  be  laid  on  a  hot 
dish  and  seasoned.  The  best  pieces  for  steak  are  the  porter-house,  sirloin,  and 
rump. 

THAWING  FROZEN  MEAT,  Etc, 

If  meat,  poultry,  fish,  vegetables,  or  any  other  article  of  food,  when  found 
frozen,  is  thawed  by  putting  it  into  warm  tvater  or  placing  it  before  the  fire,  it 
will  most  certainly  spoil  by  that  process,  and  be  rendered  unfit  to  eat.    The  only 


96  MEATS. 

way  to  thaw  these  things  is  by  immersing  them  in  cold  water.  This  should  be 
done  as  soon  as  they  are  brought  in  from  market,  that  they  may  have  time  to 
be  well  thawed  before  they  are  cooked.  If  meat  that  has  been  frozen  is  to  be 
boiled,  put  it  on  in  cold  water.  If  to  be  roasted,  begin  by  setting  it  at  a  distance 
from  the  fire;  for  if  it  should  not  chance  to  be  thoroughly  thawed  all  through  to 
the  centre,  placing  it  at  first  too  near  the  fire  will  cause  it  to  spoil.  If  it  is 
expedient  to  thaw  the  meat  or  poultry  the  night  before  cooking,  lay  it  in  cold 
water  early  in  the  evening,  and  change  the  water  at  bed-time.  If  foimd  crusted 
with  ice  in  the  morning,  remove  the  ice,  and  put  the  meat  in  fresh  cold  water, 
letting  it  lie  in  it  till  wanted  for  cooking. 

Potatoes  are  injured  by  being  frozen.  Other  vegetables  are  not  the  worse  for 
it,  provided  they  are  always  thawed  in  cold  water. 

TO  KEEP  MEAT  FROM  FLIES- 

Put  in  sacks,  with  enough  straw  around  it  so  the  flies  cannot  reach  through. 

Three-fourths  of  a  yard  of  yard- wide  muslin  is  the  right  size  for  the  sack.    Put 

a  little  straw  in  the  bottom,  then  put  in  the  ham  and  lay  straw  in  all  aroimd  it; 

tie  it  tightly,  and  hang  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Be  sure  the  straw  is  all  around  the 

meat,  so  the  flies  cannot  reach  through  to  deposit  the  eggs.    (The  sacking  must 

be  done  early  in  the  season  before  the  fly  appears.)    Muslin  lets  the  air  in  and  is 

much  better  than  paper.    Thin  muslin  is  as  good  as  thick,  and  will  last  for  years 

if  washed  when  laid  away  when  emptied. 

— National  Stockman. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

One  very  essential  point  in  roasting  beef  is  to  have  the  oven  weU  heated 
when  the  beef  is  first  put  in;  this  causes  the  pores  to  dose  up  quickly,  and  pre- 
vents the  escape  of  the  juices. 

Take  a  rib  piece  or  loin  roast  of  seven  or  eight  pounds.  Wipe  it  thoroughly 
all  over  with  a  clean  wet  towel.  Lay  it  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  baste  it  well  with 
butter  or  suet  fat.  Set  it  in  the  oven.  Baste  it  frequently  with  its  own  drip- 
pings, which  will  make  it  brown  and  tender.  When  partly  done,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  as  it  hardens  any  meat  to  salt  it  when  raw,  and  draws  out  its 
juices,  then  dredge  with  sifted  flour  to  give  it  a  frothy  appearance.  It  will  take 
a  roast  of  this  size  about  two  hours  time  to  be  properly  done,  leaving  the  inside 
a  little  rare  or  red — ^half  an  hour  less  would  make  the  inside  quite  rare.  Remove 
the  beef  to  a  heated  dish,  set  where  it  will  keep  hot;  then  skim  the  drippings 
from  all  fat,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  a  Uttle  pepper  and  a  teacupful 
of  boiling  water.     Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot  in  a  gravy  boat. 


MEATS.  97 

Some  prefer  the  clear  gravy  without  the  thickening.  Serve  with  mustard  or 
grated  horse-radish  and  vinegar. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

This  is  a  very  nice  accompaniment  to  a  roast  of  beef;  the  ingredients  are,  one 
pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  white  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  through  two  cups  of 
flour.  It  should  be  mixed  very  smooth,  about  the  consistency  of  cream.  Regu- 
late your  time  when  you  put  in  your  roast,  so  that  it  wiU  be  done  half  an  hour 
or  forty  minutes  before  dishing  up.  Take  it  from  the  oven,  set  it  where  it  will 
keep  hot.  In  the  meantime  have  this  pudding  prepared.  Take  two  common 
biscuit  tins,  dip  some  of  the  drippings  from  the  dripping-pan  into  these  tins,  pour 
half  of  the  pudding  into  each,  set  them  into  the  hot  oven,  and  keep  them  in  until 
the  dinner  is  dished  up;  take  these  puddings  out  at  the  last  moment  and  send  to 
the  table  hot.  This  I  consider  much  better  than  the  old  way  of  baking  the 
pudding  under  the  meat 

BEEFSTEAK,    No.  i. 

The  first  consideration  in  broiling  is  to  have  a  clear,  glowing  bed  of  coals. 
The  steak  should  be  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  should  be 
pounded  only  in  extreme  cases,  i.e., when  it  is  cut  too  thick  and  is  "  stringy. "  Lay 
it  on  a  buttered  gridiron,  tmning  it  often,  as  it  begins  to  drip,  attempting  nothing 
else  while  cooking  it.  Have  everything  else  ready  for  the  table;  the  potatoes 
and  vegetables  dished  and  in  the  warming  closet.  Do  not  season  it  until  it  is 
done,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  to  twelve  minutes.  Eemove  it  to  a  warm 
platter,  pepper  and  salt  it  on  both  sides  and  spread  a  Uberal  lump  of  butter  over 
it.  Serve  at  once  while  hot.  No  definite  rule  can  be  given  as  to  the  time  of 
cooking  steak,  individual  tastes  differ  so  widely  in  regard  to  it,  some  only  Uking 
it  when  well  done,  others  so  rare  that  the  blood  runs  out  of  it.  The  best  pieces 
for  broiling  are  the  porter-house  and  sirloin. 

BEEFSTEAK.    No.  2. 

Take  a  smooth,  thick-bottomed  frying-pan,  scald  it  out  with  hot  water,  and 
wipe  it  dry;  set  it  on  the  stove  or  range,  and  when  very  hot,  rub  it  over  the 
bottom  with  a  rag  dipped  in  butter;  then  place  your  steak  or  chops  in  it,  turn 
often  until  cooked  through,  take  up  on  a  warm  platter,  and  season  both  sides 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

Many  prefer  this  manner  of  cooking  steak  rather  than  broiling  or  frying  in 
a  quantity  of  grease. 

7 


98  MEATS. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  ONIONS. 

Prepare  the  steak  in  the  usual  way.  Have  ready  in  a  frying  pan  a  dozen: 
onions  cut  in  slices  and  fried  brown  in  a  little  beef  drippings  or  butter.  Dish 
your  steak,  and  lay  the  onions  thickly  over  the  top.  Cover  and  let  stand  five 
minutes,  then  send  to  the  table  hot. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  OYSTERS. 

Broil  the  steak  the  usual  way.    Put  one  quart  of  oysters  with  very  Httle  of 

the  liquor  into  a  stew-pan  upon  the  fire;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  take  off  the 

scum  that  may  rise,  stir  in  three  ounces  of  butter  mixed  with  a  tablespoonf  ul 

of  sifted  flour,  let  it  boil  one  minute  until  it  thickens,  pour  it  over  the  steak. 

Serve  hot. 

— PaJace  Hotel,  San  Francisco 

TO  FRY  BEEFSTEAKS. 

Beefsteak  for  frying  should  be  cut  much  thinner  than  for  broiling.  Take 
from  the  ribs  or  sirloin  and  remove  the  bone.  Put  some  butter  or  nice  beef  dripping 
into  a  frying-pan,  and  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled  and  become  hot,, 
lay  in  the  steaks;  when  cooked  quite  enough,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn 
and  brown  on  both  sides.  Steaks  when  fried  should  be  thoroughly  done.  Have 
ready  a  hot  dish,  and  when  they  are  done,  take  out  the  steaks  and  lay  them  on 
it,  with  another  dish  cover  the  top  to  keep  them  hot.  The  gravy  in  the  pan  can 
be  turned  over  the  steaks,  first  adding  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water,  or  a  gravy 
to  be  served  in  a  separate  dish  made  by  putting  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour 
into  the  hot  gravy  left  in  the  pan,  after  taking  up  the  steaks.  Stir  it  smooth^ 
then  poiu:  in  a  pint  of  cream  or  sweet  rich  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  boil  up 
once  until  it  thickens,  pour  hot  into  a  gravy  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  with  the 
steaks. 

POT  ROAST.    (Old  Style.) 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  dish,  often  cooked  in  our  grandmothers'  time.  Take 
a  piece  of  fresh  beef  weighing  about  five  or  six  pounds.  It  must  not  be  too  fat. 
Wash  it  and  put  it  into  a  pot  with  barely  suflicient  water  to  cover  it.  Set  it 
over  a  slow  fire,  and  after  it  has  stewed  an  hour  salt  and  pepper  it  Then  stew 
it  slowly  until  tender,  adding  a  httle  onion  if  Uked.  Do  not  replenish  the  water 
at  the  last,  but  let  all  nearly  boil  away.  When  tender  all  through  take  the 
meat  from  the  pot,  and  pour  the  gravy  in  a  bowl.  Put  a  large  lump  of  butter 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  then  dredge  the  piece  of  meat  with  flour,  and  return  it 


ME  A  TS.  go. 

to  the  pot  to  brown,  turning  it  often  to  prevent  its  burning.  Take  the  gravy 
that  you  have  poured  from  the  meat  into  the  bowl,  and  skim  off  all  the  fat;  pom: 
this  gravy  in  with  the  meat  and  stir  in  a  large  spoonful  of  flour;  wet  with  a  Uttle 
water;  let  it  boil  up  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  pour  into  a  gravy  dish.  Serve 
both  hot,  the  meat  on  a  platter.  Some  are  very  fond  of  this  way  of  cooking  a. 
piece  of  beef  which  has  been  previously  placed  in  spiced  pickle  for  two  or  three^ 
days. 

SPICED  BEEF.    (Excellent.) 

For  a  round  of  beef  weighing  twenty  or  twenty-four  pounds,  take  one  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  one  quarter  of  a  poimd  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  two 
pounds  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  oimce  of  allspice,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
mace;  pulverize  these  materials,  mix  them  well  together,  and  with  them  rub 
the  beef  thoroughly  on  every  part;  let  the  beef  lie  for  eight  or  ten  days  in  the 
pickle  thus  made,  fuming  and  rubbing  it  every  day;  then  tie  it  around  with  a 
broad  tape,  to  keep  it  in  shape;  make  a  coarse  paste  of  flom*  and  water,  lay  a 
httle  suet  finely  chopped  over  and  under  the  beef,  inclose  the  beef  entirely  in 
the  paste,  and  bake  it  six  hours.  When  you  take  the  beef  from  the  oven, 
remove  the  paste,  but  do  not  remove  the  tape  until  you  are  ready  to  send  it  to 
the  table.  If  you  wish  to  eat  the  beef  cold,  keep  it  well  covered  that  it  may 
retain  its  moisture. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Mix  together  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  ginger,  one  of 
mace,  one  of  cinnamon,  and  two  of  cloves.  Rub  this  mixture  into  ten  pounds 
of  the  upper  part  of  a  round  of  beef.  Let  this  beef  stand  in  this  state  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  make  a  dressing  or  stuffing  of  a  pint  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  half 
a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  in  dice,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  thyme  or  summer 
savory,  two  teaspoonfuls  sage,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  nutmeg,  a 
little  cloves,  an  onion  minced  fine,  moisten  with  a  little  milk  or  water.  Stuff 
this  mixture  into  the  place  from  whence  you  took  out  the  bone.  With  a  long 
skewer  fasten  the  two  ends  of  the  beef  together,  so  that  its  form  will  be  circular, 
and  bind  it  around  with  tape,  to  prevent  the  skewers  giving  away.  Make 
incisions  in  the  beef  with  a  sharp  knife;  fill  these  incisions  very  closely  with  the: 
stuffing,  and  dredge  the  whole  with  flour. 

Put  it  into  a  dripping-pan  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  hot  water;  turn  a  large* 
pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  roast  slowly  from  three  to  four  hours,, 
allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound  of  meat.    If  the  meat  should  be^ 


lOO  MEATS. 

"tough,  it  may  be  stewed  first  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  until  tender, 
-and  then  put  into  a  dripping-pan  and  browned  in  the  oven. 

If  the  meat  is  to  be  eaten  hot,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  into  which, 
after  it  is  taken  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  ^ggs.  If  onions  are 
^sUked  you  may  omit  them  and  substitute  minced  oysters. 

TENDERLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

To  serve  tenderloin  as  directed  below,  the  whole  piece  must  be  extracted 
before  the  hind  quarter  of  the  animal  is  cut  out.    This  must  be  particularly 
noted,  because  not  commonly  practised,  the  tenderloin  being  usually  left  attached 
to  the  roasting  pieces,  in  order  to  furnish  a  tidbit  for  a  few.    To  dress  it  whole, 
proceed  as  follows:    Washing  the  piece  well,  put  it  in  an  oven;  add  about  a  pint 
of  water,  and  chop  up  a  good  handful  of  each  of  the  following  vegetables  as  an 
ingredient  of  the  dish,  viz.^  Irish  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  and  a  large  bunch 
of  celery.    They  must  be  washed,  peeled,  emd  chopped  up  raw,  then  added  to 
"the  meat;  blended  with  the  juice,  they  form  and  flavor  the  gravy.    Let  the 
vrhole  slowly  simmer,  and  when  nearly  done,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  pounded 
allspice.    To  give  a  richness  to  the  gravy,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.    If 
the  gravy  should  look  too  greasy,  skim  off  some  of  the  melted  suet.    Boil  also  a 
lean  piece  of  beef,  which,  when  perfectly  done,  chop  fine,  flavoring  with  a  very 
:smaLl  quantity  of  onion,  besides  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.    Make  into  small 
halls,  wet  them  on  the  outside  with  eggs,  roll  in  grated  cracker  or  fine  bread- 
•crumbs.    Fry  these  force-meat  balls  a  light  brown.    When  serving  the  dish,  put 
iJiese  around  the  tenderloin,  and  pour  over  the  whole  the  rich  gravy.    This  dish 
ds  a  very  handsome  one,  and,  altogether,  fit  for  an  epicurean  psdate.    A  sumptu- 
ous dish. 

STEWED  STEAK  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Two  poimds  of  rump  steak,  one  pint  of  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  three  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  salt,  pepper,  one  cupful  of  water.  Wash  the 
oysters  in  the  water,  and  drain  into  a  stew-pan.  Put  this  hquor  on  to  heat.  As 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  and  set  back.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
^nd  when  hot,  put  in  a  steak.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Take  up  the  steak,  and  stir 
the  flour  into  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan.  Stir  until  a  dark  brown.  Add 
the  oyster  liquor,  and  boil  one  minute.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  back 
the  steak,  cover  the  pan,  and  simmer  half  an  hour  or  imtil  the  steak  seems 
tender,  then  add  the  oysters  and  lemon  juice.  Boil  one  minute.  Serve  on  a  hot 
-dish  with  points  of  toast  for  a  garnish. 


MEATS.  lOI 

SMOTHERED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  thin  slices  of  steak  from  the  upper  part  of  the  round  or  one  large  thin 
steak.  Lay  the  meat  out  smoothly  and  wipe  it  dry.  Prepare  a  dressing,  using  a 
cupful  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  some  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sage,  the  same  of  powdered  siunmer 
savory,  and  enough  milk  to  moisten  it  all  into  a  stiff  mixture.  Spread  it  over 
the  meat,  roll  it  up  carefully,  and  tie  with  a  string,  securing  the  ends  well. 
Now  fry  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  kettle  or  sauce-pan, 
and  into  the  fat  that  has  fried  out  of  this  pork,  place  this  roll  or  rolls  of  beef, 
and  brown  it  on  all  sides,  turning  it  until  a  rich  color  all  over,  then  add  half  a 
pint  of  water,  and  stew  until  tender.  If  the  flavor  of  onion  is  liked,  a  slice  may 
"be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  the  dressing.  When  cooked  sufficiently,  take  out 
the  meat,  thicken  the  gravy,  and  turn  over  it.  To  be  carved  cutting  crosswise, 
in  slices,  through  beef  and  stuffing. 

BEEFSTEAK  ROLLS. 

This  mode  is  similar  to  the  above  recipe,  but  many  might  prefer  it. 

Prepare  a  good  dressing,  such  as  you  like  for  turkey  or  duck;  take  a  round 
steak,  poimd  it,  but  not  very  hard,  spread  the  dressing  over  it,  sprinkle  in  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  lap  over  the  ends,  roll  the  steak  up  tightly 
and  tie  closely;  spread  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter  over  the  steak  after  rolUng 
it  up,  then  wash  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  put  water  in  the  bake-pan,  lay  in  the 
steak  so  as  not  to  touch  the  water,  and  bake  as  you  would  a  duck,  basting  often. 
A  half  hour  in  a  brisk  oven  wiU  bake.  Make  a  brown  gravy,  and  send  to  the 
table  hot. 

TO  COLLAR  A  FLANK  OF  BEEF. 

Procure  a  well-corned  flank  of  beef, — say  six  pounds.  Wash  it,  and  remove 
the  inner  and  outer  skin  with  the  gristle.  Prepare  a  seasoning  of  one  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  sage,  parsley,  thyme,  pepper  and  cloves.  Lay  your  meat  upon  a 
board  and  spread  this  mixture  over  the  inside.  EoU  the  beef  up  tight,  fasten  it 
with  small  skewers,  put  a  cloth  over  it,  bandage  the  cloth  with  tape,  put  the 
beef  into  the  stew-pot,  cover  it  with  water  to  the  depth  of  an  inch,  boil  gently 
six  hours;  take  it  out  of  the  water,  place  it  on  a  board  without  undoing  it;  lay  a 
board  on  top  of  the  beef,  put  a  fifty  pound  weight  upon  this  board,  and  let  it 
remain  twenty-four  hours.  Take  off  the  bandage,  garnish  with  green  pickles 
and  curled  parsley,  and  serve. 


I02  MEATS. 


DRIED  BEEF. 


Buy  the  best  of  beef,  or  that  part  which  will  be  the  most  lean  and  tender. 
The  tender  part  of  the  round  is  a  very  good  piece.  For  every  twenty  pounds  of 
beef  use  one  pint  of  salt,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  saltpetre,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  rub  the  beef  well  with  one-third 
of  the  mixture  for  three  successive  days.  Let  it  he  in  the  Uquor  it  makes  for 
six  days,  then  hang  up  to  dry. 

A  large  crock  or  jar  is  a  good  vessel  to  prepare  the  meat  in  before  drying  it. 

BEEF  CORNED  OR  SALTED.   (Red.) 

Cut  up  a  quarter  of  beef.  For  each  hundred  weight  take  half  a  peck  of 
coarse  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  the  same  weight  of  saleratus,  and 
a  quart  of  molasses,  or  two  poimds  of  coarse  brown  sugar.  Mace,  cloves  and 
allspice,  may  be  added  for  spiced  beef. 

Strew  some  of  the  salt  in  the  bottom  of  a  pickle-tub  or  barrel;  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  meat,  strew  this  with  salt,  then  add  another  layer  of  meat,  and  salt  and 
meat  alternately,  until  all  is  used.  Let  it  remain  one  night.  Dissolve  the 
saleratus  and  saltpetre  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  put  it  to  the  molasses  or 
sugar;  then  put  it  over  the  meat,  add  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  lay  a 
board  on  it  to  keep  it  under  the  brine.  The  meat  is  fit  for  use  after  ten  days. 
This  receipt  is  for  winter  beef.    Rather  more  salt  may  be  used  in  warm  weather. 

Towards  spring  take  the  brine  from  the  meat,  make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it 
clear,  and  when  it  is  cooled,  return  it  to  the  meat. 

Beef  tongues  and  smoking  pieces  are  fine  pickled  in  this  brine.  Beef  liver 
put  in  this  brine  for  ten  days,  ^d  then  wiped  dry  and  smoked,  is  very  fine.  Cut 
it  in  shoes,  and  fry  or  broil  it.  The  brisket  of  beef,  after  being  corned,  may  be 
smoked,  and  is  very  good  for  boiling. 

Lean  pieces  of  beef,  cut  properly  from  the  hind  quarter,  are  the  proper  pieces 
for  being  smoked.    There  may  be  some  fine  pieces  cut  from  the  fore-quarter. 

After  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  ten  days  or  more,  wipe  it  dry,  and  hang  it  in 
a  chimney  where  wood  is  burned,  or  make  a  smothered  fire  of  sawdust  or  chips, 
and  keep  it  smoking  for  ten  days;  then  rub  fine  black  pepper  over  every  part  to 
keep  the  flies  from  it,  and  hang  it  in  a  dry^  darky  cool  place.  After  a  week  it  is 
fit  for  use.  A  strong,  coarse  brown  paper,  folded  around  the  beef,  and  fastened 
with  paste,  keeps  it  nicely. 

Tongues  are  smoked  in  the  same  manner.     Hang  them  by  a  string  put 


MEATS.  103 

through  the  root  end.    Spiced  brine  for  smoked  beef  or  tongues  will  be  gener- 
ally liked. 

ROAST  BEEF  PIE  WITH  POTATO  CRUST. 

When  you  have  a  cold  roast  of  beef,  cut  off  as  much  as  will  half  fill  a  baking- 
dish  suited  to  the  size  of  your  family;  put  this  sliced  beef  into  a  stew-pan  with 
any  gravy  that  you  may  have  also  saved,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  bit  of  sUced  onion, 
and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  with  enough  water  to  make  plenty  of  gravy; 
thicken  it,  too,  by  dredging  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cover  it  up  on  the  fire, 
where  it  may  stew  gently,  but  not  be  in  danger  of  burning.  Meanwhile  there 
must  be  boiled  a  suflSicient  quantity  of  potatoes  to  fill  up  your  baking-dish,  after 
the  stewed  meat  has  been  transferred  to  it.  The  potatoes  must  be  boiled  done, 
mashed  smooth,  and  beaten  up  with  milk  and  butter,  as  if  they  were  to  be 
served  alone,  and  placed  in  a  thick  layer  on  top  of  the  meat.  Brush  it  over  with 
^g&  place  the  dish  in  an  oven,  and  let  it  remain  there  long  enough  to  be  brown. 
There  should  be  a  goodly  quantity  of  gravy  left  with  the  beef,  that  the  dish  be 
not  dry  and  tasteless.  Serve  with  it  tomato  sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce  or  any 
other  kind  that  you  prefer.     A  good,  plain  dish. 

ROAST  BEEF  PIE. 

Out  up  roast  beef,  or  beef  steak  left  from  a  previous  meal,  into  thin  slices, 
lay  some  of  the  shoes  into  a  deep  dish  which  you  have  hned  on  the  sides  with 
rich  biscuit  dough,  rolled  very  thin,  (say  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick);  now 
sprinkle  over  this  layer  a  httle  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  a  small  bit  of  butter,  a 
few  shoes  of  cold  potatoes,  a  little  of  the  cold  gravy,  if  you  have  any  left  from 
the  roast.  Make  another  layer  of  beef,  another  layer  of  seasoning,  and  so  on, 
until  the  dish  is  filled;  cover  the  whole  with  paste,  leaving  a  sUt  in  the  centre, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

BEEF  STEAK  PIE. 

Cut  up  rump  or  flank  steak  into  strips  two  inches  long  and  about  an  inch 
wide.  Stew  them  with  the  bone  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  until  partly 
cooked;  have  half  a  dozen  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  sUced.  Line  a  baking-dish 
with  pie  paste,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  meat  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  Uttle  of  thinly 
sliced  onion,  then  one  of  the  sUced  potatoes,  with  bits  of  butter  dotted  over 
them.  Then  the  steak,  alternated  with  layers  of  potato,  imtil  the  dish  is  full. 
Add  the  gravy  or  broth,  having  first  thickened  it  with  brown  flour.  Cover 
with  a  top  crust,  making  a  sUt  in  the  middle;  brush  a  Uttle  beaten  egg  over  it, 
and  bake  until  quite. brown. 


I04  MEATS. 

FRIZZLED  BEEF- 

Shave  oflE  very  thin  slices  of  smoked  or  dried  beef,  put  them  in  a  frying-pan^ 
cover  with  cold  water,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  range  or  stove,  and  let  it  come 
to  a  very  slow  heat,  allowing  it  time  to  swell  out  to  its  natural  size,  but  not  to 
boil.  Stir  it  up,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Melt  one  ounce  of  sweet  butter  in 
the  frying-pan,  and  add  the  wafers  of  beef.  When  they  begin  to  frizzle  or  turn 
up,  break  over  them  three  eggs;  stir  imtil  the  eggs  are  cooked;  add  a  little  white 
pepper,  and  serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

FLANK  STEAK. 

This  is  cut  from  the  boneless  part  of  the  flank  and  is  secreted  between  an  out- 
side and  inside  layer  of  creamy  fat.  There  are  two  ways  for  broiling  it.  One  is 
to  slice  it  diagonally  across  the  grain;  the  other  is  to  broil  it  whole.  In  either 
case  brush  butter  over  it  and  proceed  as  in  broiling  other  steaks.  It  is  considered 
by  butchers  the  finest  steak,  which  they  frequently  reserve  for  themselves. 

TO  BOIL  CORNED  BEEF. 

The  aitch-bone  and  the  brisket  are  considered  the  best  pieces  for  boiling.  If 
you  buy  them  in  the  market  already  corned,  they  will  be  fit  to  put  over  the 
fire  without  a  previous  soaking  in  water.  If  you  com  them  in  the  brine  in 
which  you  keep  your  beef  through  the  winter,  they  must  be  soaked  in  cold 
water  over  night.  Put  the  beef  into  a  pot,  cover  with  sufficient  cold  water, 
place  over  a  brisk  fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  in  half  an  hour;  just  before  boiling 
remove  all  the  scum  from  the  pot,  place  the  pot  on  the  back  of  the  fire,  let  it  boil 
very  slowly  until  quite  tender. 

A  piece  weighing  eight  poimds  requires  two  and  a  half  hours'  boiling.  If 
you  do  not  wish  to  eat  it  hot^  let  it  remain  in  the  pot  after  you  take  it  from  the 
fire,  until  nearly  cold,  then  lay  it  in  a  colander  to  drain,  lay  a  cloth  over  it  to 
retain  its  fresh  appearance;  serve  with  horse-radish  and  pickles. 

If  vegetables  are  to  accompany  this,  making  it  the  old-fashioned  ^'boiled 
dinner,"  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  dishing  up  skim  the  hquOr  free 
from  fat  and  turn  part  of  it  out  into  another  kettle,  into  which  put  a  cabbage 
carefully  prei)ared,  cutting  it  into  four  quarters;  also  half  a  dozen  peeled 
medium-sized  white  turnips,  cut  into  halves;  scrape  four  carrots  and  four 
parsnips  each  cut  into  four  pieces.  Into  the  kettle  with  the  meat,  about  half  an 
hour  before  serving,  pour  on  more  water  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle,  and  into- 
this  put  peeled  mediiun-sized  potatoes.    This  dinner  should  also  be  accompanied 


MEATS.  105: 

by  boiled  beet0,  sliced  hot,  cooked  separate  from  the  rest,  with  vinegar  over 
them.    Cooking  the  cabbage  separately  from  the  meat  prevents  the  meat  from . 
having  the  flavor  of  cabbage  when  cold.    The  carrots,  parsnips  and  tmnips  will 
boil  in  about  an  hour.    A  piece  of  salt  pork  was  usually  boiled  with  a  "New 
England  boiled  dinner." 

SPICED  BEEF  RELISH. 

Take  two  pounds  of  raw,  tender  beefsteak,  chop  it  veryfine^  put  into  it  salt, 
pepper  and  a  Uttle  sage,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  add  two  rolled 
crackers  made  very  fine,  also  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Make  it  up  into  the  shape 
of  a  roU  and  bake  it;  baste  with  butter  and  water  before  baking.  Cut  in  slices 
when  cold. 

FRIED  BEEF  LIVER. 

Cut  it  in  rather  thin  sUces,  say  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  pour  over  it  boiling  - 
water,  which  closes  the  pores  of  the  meat,  makes  it  impervious  to  the  fat, 
and  at  the  same  time  seals  up  the  rich  juice  of  the  meat.    It  may  be  rolled  in 
floin:  or  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  dipped  in  egg  and  fried  in . 
hot  fat  mixed  with  one-third  butter. 


First  have  your  beef  nicely  pickled:  let  it  stay  in  pickle  a  week;  then  take 
the  thin  flanky  pieces,  such  as  will  not  make  a  handsome  dish  of  themselves; 
put  on  a  large  potful,  and  let  them  boil  until  perfectly  done;  then  pull  to  pieces, 
and  season  just  as  you  do  souse,  with  pepper,  salt  and  allspice;  only  put  it  in  a . 
coarse  cloth  and  press  down  upon  it  some  very  heavy  weight. 

The  advantage  of  this  recipe  is  that  it  makes  a  most  acceptable,  presentable 
dish  out  of  a  part  of  the  beef  that  otherwise  might  be  wasted. 

FRENCH  STEW. 

Grease  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot,  and  place  in  it  three  or  f oin:  pounds  of* 
beef;  be  very  careful  that  it  does  not  bimi,  and  turn  it  until  it  is  nicely  browned. 
Set  a  muflSn  ring  xmder  the  beef  to  prevent  its  sticking.  Add  a  few  sliced 
carrots,  one  or  two  sliced  onions,  and  a  cupful  of  hot  water;  keep  covered,  and 
stew  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  done.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  If  you  wish 
more  gravy,  add  hot  water,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Serve  on  a  dish  with  the 
vegetables. 

TO  POT  BEEF. 

The  round  is  the  best  piece  for  potting,  and  you  may  use  both  the  upper  and 
under  part.    Take  ten  pounds  of  beef,  remove  all  the  fat,  cut  the  lean  into- 


:io6  MEATS. 

'<csquaxe  pieces,  two  inches  thick.  Mix  together  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of 
pepper,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  allspice,  one  of 
thyme,  and  one  of  sweet  basil.  Put  a  layer  of  the  pieces  of  beef  into  an  earthen 
pot,  sprinkle  some  of  this  spice  mixture  over  this  layer,  add  a  piece  of  fat  salt 
pork,  cut  as  thin  as  possible,  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  spice  mixture  over  the  pork, 
make  another  layer  of  the  beef  with  spices  and  pork,  and  so  on,  until  the  pot  is 
'filled.  Pour  over  the  whole  three  tablesjHwnfuls  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  or,  if  you 
prefer  it,  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine;  cover  the  pot  with  a  paste  made  of  flour 
^and  water,  so  that  no  steam  can  escape.  Put  the  pot  into  an  oven,  moderately 
heated,  and  let  it  stand  there  eight  hours;  then  set  it  away  to  use  when  wanted. 

Beef  cooked  in  this  manner  will  keep  good  a  fortnight  in  moderate  weather. 

It  is  an  excellent  relish  for  breakfast,  and  may  be  eaten  either  warm  or  cold. 
When  eaten  warm,  serve  with  shoes  of  lemon. 

STEWED  BRISKET  OF  BEEF 

Put  the  part  that  has  the  hard  fat  into  a  stew-pot,  with  a  small  quantity  of 
•water;  let  it  boil  up,  and  skim  it  thoroughly;  then  add  carrots,  tiurdps,  onions, 
-celery  and  a  few  pepper-corns.  Stew  till  extremely  tender;  then  take  out  all  the 
flat  bones  and  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  soup.  Either  serve  that  and  the  meat 
in  a  tureen,  or  the  soup  alone,  and  the  meat  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  some 
vegetables.  The  following  sauce  is  much  admired  served  with  the  beef:  Take 
half  a  pint  of  the  soup,  and  mix  it  with  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard,  a  httle  floin*,  a  bit  of  butter  and  salt;  boil  all  together  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  it  round  the  meat. 

DRIED  BEEF,  WITH  CREAM. 

Shave  your  beef  very  flne.  Put  it  into  a  suitable  dish  on  the  back  of  the 
^stove;  cover  with  cold  water  and  give  it  time  to  soak  out  to  its  original  size 
before  being  dried.  When  it  is  quite  soft  and  the  water  has  become  hot  (it  must 
not  boil),  take  it  off,  tmn  off  the  water,  pour  on  a  cup  of  cream;  if  you  do  not 
liave  it  use  milk  and  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  wet  up  in  a  httle  milk.  Serve  on  dipped  toast  or 
not,  just  as  one  fancies.    A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES.    No.  i. 

Chop  flne  one  cup  of  cold,  cooked,  lean  beef,  half  a  cup  of  fat,  half  a  cup  of 
icold  boiled  or  fried  ham ;  cold  pork  will  do  if  you  have  not  the  ham.  Also  mince 
mp  a  slice  of  onion.    Season  all  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 


MEATS.  107 

I)epper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage  or  pareley,  if  liked.  Heat  together 
with  half  a  cup  of  stock  oi-  milk;  when  cool,  add  a  beaten  egg.  Form  the  mix- 
ture into  balls,  slightly  flattened,  roll  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  or  flour  and  ^z%. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings.  Serve  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley.    Almost  any  cold  meats  can  be  used  instead  of  beef. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES.    No.  2. 

Take  cold  roast  or  corned  beef.  Put  it  into  a  wooden  bowl  and  chop  it  fine. 
Mix  with  it  about  twice  the  quantity  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  weD  seasoned  with 
butter  and  salt.  Beat  up  an  egg  and  work  it  into  the  potato  and  meat,  then 
form  the  mixture  into  httle  cakes  the  size  of  fish  balls.  Flatten  them  a  little, 
roU  in  flom*  or  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed,  browning 
on  both  sides.     Seive  piping  hot. 

MEAT  AND  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Put  in  a  stew-pan  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  slice  of  onion  minced  fine;  when  this 
simmers,  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  sifted  fiour;  stir  the  mixture  until  it 
becomes  smooth  and  frothy;  then  add  half  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  some  seasoning 
of  salt  and  pepper;  let  all  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  while.  Now  add  a  cupful  of  cold 
meat  chopped  fine  and  a  cupful  of  cold  or  hot  mashed  potato.  Mix  all  thor- 
oughly and  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  When  it  is  cool  enough,  shape  it  with 
your  hands  into  balls  or  rolls.  Dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  or 
bread-crumbs.  Drop  them  into  hot  lard  and  fiy  about  two  minutes  a  delicate 
brown;  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  them  on  a  piece  of  brown 
paper.     Serve  immediately  while  hot.     These  are  very  nice. 

Cold  rice  or  hominy  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  potato;  or  a  cupful  of  cold 
fish  minced  fine  in  place  of  the  meat. 

COLD  ROAST,  WARMED. 

Cut  from  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  the  lean  meat  from  the  bones  into 

smaU,  thin  slices.     Put  over  the  fire  a  frying-pan  containing  a  spoonful  of  butter 

or  drippings.     Cut  up  a  quarter  of  an  onion  and  fry  it  brown,  then  remove  the 

onion,  add  the  meat  gravy  left  from  the  day  before,  and  if  not  thick  enough,  add 

a  little  flour;  salt  and  pepper. 

Turn  the  pieces  of  meat  into  this,  and  let  them  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Serve 
hot. 

COLD  ROAST,  WARMED.    No.  2. 

Cold  rare  roast  beef  may  be  made  as  good  as  when  freshly  cooked  by  slicing, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter;  put  it  in  a  plate  or  pan  with  a 


lo8  MEATS. 

spoonful  or  two  of  water,  covering  closely,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  hot,  but  no 
longer.    Cold  steak  may  be  shaved  very  fine  with  a  knife  and  used  the  same  way. 

Or,  if  the  meat  is  in  small  pieces,  cover  them  with  buttered  letter  paper, 
twist  each  end  tightly,  and  boil  them  on  the  gridiron,  sprinkling  them  with 
finely  chopped  herbs. 

Still  another  nice  way  of  using  cold  meats  is  to  mince  the  lean  portions  very 
fine,  and  add  to  a  batter  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour  and  three 
eggs.    Fry  like  fritters,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  sauce. 

COLD  MEAT  AND  POTATO,  BAKED. 

Put  in  a  frying-pan  a  round  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter;  when  it  becomes 
hot,  stir  into  it  a  teaspoonf ul  of  chopped  onion  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir- 
ring it  constantly  until  it  is  smooth  and  frothy;  then  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  cold  milk  or  water.  Season  this  with  salt  and  pepper  and  aUow  it  to  come  to 
a  boil;  then  add  a  cupful  of  cold  meat  finely  chopped  and  cleared  from  bone  and 
skin;  let  this  all  heat  thoroughly;  then  turn  it  into  a  shallow  dish  well  buttered. 
Spread  hot  or  cold  mashed  potatoes  over  the  top,  and  cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  hot  oven. 

Cold  hominy  or  rice  may  be  xised  in  place  of  mashed  potatoes,  and  is  equally 
asgood. 

BEEF   HASH.    No.  x. 

Chop  rather  finely  cold  roast  beef  or  pieces  of  beef  steak,  also  chop  twice  as 
much  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Put  over  the  fire  a  stew-pan  or  frying-pan,  in  which 
put  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  required  to  season  it  well,  add  pepper  and  salt, 
moisten  with  beef  gravy  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  with  hot  water;  cover  and  let  it 
steam  and  heat  through  thoroughly,  stirring  occasionally,  so  that  the  ingredients 
be  evenly  distributed,  and  to  keep  the  hash  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  When  done  it  should  not  be  at  all  watery,  nor  yet  dry,  but  have  sufficient 
adhesiveness  to  stand  well  on  a  dish,  or  buttered  toast.  Many  Uke  the  fiavor  of 
onion;  if  so,  fry  two  or  three  sUces  in  the  butter  before  adding  the  hash* 
Corned  beef  makes  excellent  hash. 

BEEP  HASH.     No.  2. 

Chop  cold  roast  beef,  or  pieces  of  beefsteak;  fry  half  an  onion  in  a  piece  of 

butter;  when  the  onion  is  brown,  add  the  chopped  beef;  season  with  a  Uttle  salt 

and  pepper;  moisten  with  the  beef  gravy,  if  you  have  any,  if  not,  with  sufficient 

water  and  a  little  butter;  cook  long  enough  to  be  hot,  but  no  longer,  as  much 

cooking  toughens  the  meat.    An  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

^       ^  —Prof.  Blot. 


MEATS.  109 

Some  prefer  to  let  a  crust  form  on  the  bottom  and  turn  the  hash  brown  side 
uppermost.    Served  with  poached  eggs  on  top, 

HAMBURGER  STEAK. 

Take  a  poimd  of  raw  flank  or  romid  steak,  without  any  fat,  bone  or  stringy 
pieces.  Chop  it  xmtil  a  perfect  mince;  it  cannot  be  chopped  too  fine.  Also  chop 
a  small  onion  quite  fine,  and  mix  well  with  the  meat.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  make  into  cakes  as  large  as  a  biscuit,  but  quite  flat,  or  into  one  large  flat 
cake  a  little  less  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  frying-pan,  with 
butter  and  lard  mixed;  when  boiling  liot,  put  in  the  steak  and  fry  brown. 
Oamish  with  celery  top  around  the  edge  of  the  platter  and  two  or  three  slices  of 
lemon  on  the  top  of  the  meat. 

A  brown  gravy  made  from  the  grease  the  steak  was  fried  in,  and  poured  over 
the  meat,  enriches  it. 

TO  ROAST  BEEF  HEART. 

Wash  it  carefully  and  open  it  sufficiently  to  remove  the  ventricles,  then  soak 

it  in  cold  water  until  the  blood  is  discharged;  wipe  it  dry  and  stuff  it  nicely  with. 

dressing,  as  for  turkey;  roast  it  about  an  hour  and  a  half.    Serve  it  with  the^ 

gravy,  which  should  be  thickened  with  some  of  the  stuflSng,  and  a  glass  of  wine* 

It  is  very  nice  hashed.    Served  with  currant  jelly. 

— Palmer  House,  Chicago. 

STEWED  BEEF  KIDNEY. 

Cut  the  kidney  into  slices,  season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  it  a  light 
brown,  take  out  the  slices,  then  poiu*  a  little  warm  water  into  the  pan,  dredge  in 
some  flour,  put  in  slices  of  kidney  again;  let  them  stew  very  gently;  add  some 
parsley  if  liked.  Sheep's  kidneys  may  be  split  open,  broiled  over  a  clear  fire,  and 
served  with  a  piece  of  butter  placed  on  each  half. 

BEEF'S  HEART,  STEWED. 

After  washing  the  heart  thoroughly,  cut  it  up  into  squares  half  an  inch  long; 
put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them.  If  any  scum 
rises,  skim  it  off.  Now  take  out  the  meat,  strain  the  liquor,  and  put  back  the 
meat,  also  add  a  sliced  onion,  some  parsley,  a  head  of  celery  chopped  fine,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  piece,  of  butter.  Stew  imtil  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Stir  up  a 
tablespoonful  of  brown  fiour  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  thicken  the 
whole.    Boil  up  and  serve. 


no  MEATS. 

BOILED  BEEF  TONGUE, 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue  and  just  cover  it  with  water  in  the  pot;  put  in  a  pint  of 
salt  and  a  small  red  pepper;  add  more  water  as  it  evaporates,  so  as  to  keep  the 
tongue  nearly  covered  until  done — ^when  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork;  take 
it  out,  and  if  wanted  soon,  take  off  the  skin  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  If  wanted 
for  future  use,  do  not  peel  until  it  is  required.  A  cupful  of  salt  will  do  for  three 
tongues,  if  you  have  that  number  to  boil;  but  do  not  fail  to  keep  water  enough 
in  the  pot  to  keep  them  covered  while  boiling.  If  salt  tongues  are  used,  soak 
them  over  night,  of  course  omitting  the  salt  when  boiling.  Or,  after  peeling  a 
tongue,  place  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  one  cup  of  water,  half  a  cup  vinegar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  cook  imtil  the  liquor  is  evaporated. 

SPICED  BEEF  TONGUE. 

Rub  into  each  tongue  a  mixture  made  of  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece 
of  saltpetre  the  size  of  a  pea,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  groimd  cloves;  put  it  in  a 
brine  made  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  water  and 
keep  covered.  Pickle  two  weeks,  then  wash  well  and  dry  with  a  cloth;  roll  out 
a  thin  paste  made  of  flour  and  water,  smear  it  all  over  the  tongue  and  place  in  a 
pan  to  bake  slowly;  baste  weU  with  lard  and  hot  water;  when  done  scrape  oflE 
the  paste  and  skin. 

TO  BOIL  TRIPE. 

Wash  it  well  in  warm  water,  and  trim  it  nicely,  taking  off  aU  the  fat.  Cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  five  hours  before  dinner  in  water  enough 
to  cover  it  very  well.  After  it  has  boiled  four  hours,  pour  off  the  water,  season 
the  tripe  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  with  milk  and  water  mixed 
in  equal  quantities,    fioil  it  an  hour  in  the  milk  and  water. 

Boil  in  a  sauce-pan  ten  or  a  dozen  onions.  When  they  are  quite  soft,  drain 
them  in  a  colander,  and  mash  them.  Wipe  out  your  sauce-pan  and  put  them  on 
again,  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  a  wineglass  of  cream  or  milk.  Let 
them  boil  up,  and  add  them  to  the  tripe  just  before  you  send  it  to  table.  Eat  it 
with  pepper,  vinegar  and  mustard. 

It  is  best  to  give  tripe  its  first  and  longest  boiling  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 

TO  FRY  TRIPE, 

Boil  the  tripe  the  day  before  till  it  is  quite  tender,  which  it  wiU  not  be  in  less 
than  four  or  five  hours.  Then  cover  it  and  set  it  away.  Next  day  cut  it  into 
long  sUps,  and  dip  each  piece  into  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  afterwards  roll  them 


MEATS.  Ill 

in  grated  bread-crumbs.  Have  ready  ia  a  frying-pan  over  the  fire  some  good 
beef -dripping.  When  it  is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  tripe,  and  fry  it  about  ten 
minutes,  till  of  a  light  brown. 

You  may  serve  it  with  onion  sauce. 

Boiled  tripe  that  has  been  left  from  the  dinner  of  the  preceding  day  may  be 
fried  in  this  manner. 

FRICASSEED  TRIPE. 

Cut  a  pound  of  tripe  in  narrow  strips,  put  a  small  cup  of  water  or  milk  to  it, 
add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  dredge  in  a  large  teaspoonf  ul  of  flour,  or 
work  it  with  the  butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it  simmer  gently  for 
half  an  hour,  serve  hot.  A  bunch  of  parsley  cut  small  and  put  with  it  is  an 
improvement. 

Some  put  in  oysters  five  minutes  before  dishing  up. 

TRIPE  LYONNAISE. 

Cut  up  half  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  tripe  into  neat  squares.  Put  two  oimces 
of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  a  frying-pan  and  fry  to  a  deli- 
cate brown;  add  to  the  tripe  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  little  strong 
vinegar,  salt,  and  cayenne;  stir  the  pan  to  prevent  burning.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  a  platter  with  tomato-sauce,  add  the  contents  of  the  pan  and  serve. 

TO  CLARIFY  BEEF  DRIPPINGS. 

Drippings  accumulated  from  different  cooked  meats  of  beef  or  veal  can  be 
clarified  by  putting  it  into  a  basin  and  sUcing  into  it  a  raw  potato,  allowing  it  to 
boil  long  enough  for  the  potato  to  brown,  which  causes  all  impurities  to  dis- 
appear. Eemove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  drain  it  off  from  the  sediment 
that  settles  at  the  bottom.  Turn  it  into  basins  or  small  jars  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  for  future  use.  When  mixed  with  an  equal  amount  of  butter  it  answers 
the  same  purpose  as  clear  butter  for  frying  and  basting  any  meats  excepting 
game  and  poultry. 

Mutton  drippings  impart  an  unpleasant  flavor  to  anything  cooked  outside  of 
i^s  kind. 

ROAST  LOIN  OF  VEAL. 

Prepare  it  the  same  as  any  roast,  leaving  in  the  kidney,  around  which  put 
considerable  salt.  Make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  fowls;  unroll  the  loin,  put 
the  stuflBbig  well  around  the  kidney,  fold  and  secure  with  several  coils  of  white 
cotton  twine  wound  around  in  all  directions;  place  in  a  dripping-pan  with  the 


112  MEATS, 

thick  side  down,  and  put  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  graduated  after  it  commences  to 
roast  to  moderate;  in  half  an  hour  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  pan,  and  baste 
often;  in  another  half  hour  turn  over  the  roast,  and  when  about  done  dredge 
lightly  with  flour  and  baste  with  melted  butter.  Before  serving,  carefully 
remove  the  twine.  A  roast  of  four  to  five  pounds  will  bake  in  about  two  hours. 
For  a  gravy,  skim  off  some  of  the  fat  if  there  is  too  much  in  the  drippings; 
dredge  in  some  flour,  stir  imtil  brown,  add  some  hot  water  if  necessary,  boil  a 
few  minutes,  stir  in  such  sweet  herbs  as  fancied,  and  put  in  a  gravy  boat.  Serve 
with  green  peas  and  lemon  jelly.  Is  very  nice  sliced  cold  for  limch,  and  Wor- 
cestershire or  Chili  sauce  forms  a  flne  relish. 

ROAST  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Select  a  nice  flUet,  take  out  the  bone,  fill  up  the  space  with  stufSng,  and  also 
put  a  good  layer  imder  the  fat.  Truss  it  of  a  good  shape  by  drawing  the  fat 
round,  and  tie  it  up  with  tape.  Cook  it  rather  moderately  at  first,  and  baste 
with  butter.  It  should  have  careful  attention  and  frequent  basting,  that  the  fat 
may  not  biun.  Boast  from  three  to  four  hours,  according  to  the  size.  After  it 
is  dished,  pour  melted  butter  over  it;  serve  with  ham  or  bacon,  and  fresh 
cucumbers,  if  in  season.  Veal,  like  all  other  meat,  shpuld  be  well  washed  in 
cold  water  before  cooking  and  wiped  thoroughly  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  Cold 
fillet  of  veal  is  very  good  stewed  with  tomatoes  and  an  onion  or  two. 

In  roasting  veal,  care  must  be  taken  that  it  is  not  at  first  placed  in  too  hot 
an  oven;  the  fat  of  a  loin,  one  of  the  most  delicate  joints  of  veal,  should  be 
covered  with  greased  paper;  a  fillet,  also,  should  have  on  the  caul  until  nearly 
done  enough. 

BOILED  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Choose  a  small,  delicate  fillet;  prepare  as  for  roasting,  or  stuff  it  with  an 
oyster  force-meat;  after  having  washed  it  thoroughly,  cover  it  with  water  and 
let  it  boil  very  gently  three  and  a  half  or  four  hours,  keeping  it  weU  skimmed. 
Send  it  to  the  table  with  a  rich  white  sauce,  or,  if  stuffed  with  oysters,  a  tureen 
of  oyster  sauce.  Gramish  with  stewed  celery  and  slices  of  bacon.  A  boiled 
tongue  should  be  served  with  it.  ^ 

VEAL  PUDDING. 

Cut  about  two  poimds  of  lean  veal  into  small  coUops  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness;  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  very  dean  frying-pan  to 
melt;  then  lay  in  the  veal  and  a  few  slices  of  bacon,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme,  and 
a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt;  place  the  pan  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  ten 


MEATS.  113 

minutes,  then  add  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  warm  water.  Just  boil  it  up,  and 
then  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  suet  crust,  lay  in  the 
veal  and  bacon,  pour  the  gravy  over  it;  roll  out  a  piece  of  paste  to  form  a  lid, 
place  it  over,  press  it  close  with  the  thumb,  tie  the  basin  in  a  pudding  cloth,  and 
put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  keeping  continually  boiling  until  done, 
or  about  one  hour. 

FRIED  VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Put  into  a  frying-pan  two  or  three  tabJespoonfuls  of  lard  or  beef  drippings. 
When  boiling  hot  lay  in  the  cutlets,  weU  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Brown  nicely  on  both  sides,  then  remove  the  meat,  and  if 
you  have  more  grease  than  is  necessary  for  the  gravy,  put  it  aside  for  fiuther 
use.  Eeserve  a  tablespoonful  or  more,  and  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonf ul  of  flour, 
with  the  back  of  the  spoon,  until  it  is  a  smooth,  rich  brown  color;  then  add 
gradually  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  the  gravy 
is  boiled  up  well  return  the  meat  to  the  pan  and  gravy.  Cover  it  closely  and 
allow  it  to  stew  gently  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  fifteen  minutes.  This 
softens  the  meat,  and  with  this  gravy  it  makes  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Another  mode  is  to  simply  fry  the  cutlets,  and  afterwards  turning  off  some 
of  the  grease  they  were  fried  in  and  then  adding  to  that  left  in  the  pan  a  few 
drops  of  hot  water,  turning  the  whole  over  the  fried  chops. 

FRIED  VEAL  CHOPS.     (Plain.) 

Sprinkle  over  them  salt  and  pepper,  then  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  drippings,  or  hot  lard  and  butter  mixed.  If  you  wish  a  gravy 
with  them,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy  they  were  fried  in  and  turn 
in  cream  or  milk;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  up  and  serve  hot 
with  the  gravy  in  a  separate  dish.  This  dish  is  very  fine  accompanied  with  a 
few  sound  fresh  tomatoes,  sliced  and  fried  in  the  same  grease  the  cutlets  were, 
and  aU  dished  on  the  same  platter. 

VEAL  COLLOPS. 

Cut  veal  from  the  leg  or  other  lean  part  into  pieces  the  size  of  an  oyster. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  Uttle  mace;  rub  some  over  each  piece;  dip  in  egg, 
then  into  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry.     They  both  look  and  taste  like  oysters. 

VEAL  OLIVES. 

Cut  up  a  slice  of  a  fillet  of  veal,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  into  squares  of 
three  inches.    Mix  up  a  little  salt  pork,  chopped  with  bread-crumbs,  one  onion, 

9 


114  MEATS. 

a  little  pepper,  salt,  sweet  marjoram,  and  one  egg  well  beaten;  put  this  mixture 
upon  the  pieces  of  veal,  fastening  the  four  comers  together  with  little  bird 
skewers;  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  a  sufficient  veal  gravy  or  Ught  stock  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven.  When  browned 
on  top,  put  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  let  them  remain  until  quite  tender, 
which  will  take  twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  horse-radish. 

VEAL  CHEESE. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  boiled  sliced  veal  and  smoked  tongue.  Pound  the 
slices  separately  in  a  mortar,  moistening  with  butter  as  you  proceed;  then  pack  it 
in  a  jar  or  pail,  mixing  it  in  alternate  layers;  first,  the  tongue  and  then  the  veal, 
so  that  when  cut  it  will  look  variegated.  Press  it  down  hard  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  the  top.  Keep  it  well  covered  and  in  a  dry  place.  Nice  for  sand- 
wiches, or  shced  cold  for  lunch. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Mince  a  coffee  cup  of  cold  veal  in  a  chopping  bowl,  adding  a  little  cold  ham, 
and  two  or  three  slices  of  onion,  a  pinch  of  mace,  powdered  parsley  and  pepper, 
Bome  salt.  Let  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  butter,  then  the  above  mixture.  Beat  up  two  eggs  and 
mix  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  or  flour,  and  add  to  the  rest;  cook  it  aU 
about  ten  minutes,  stirring  with  care.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  and  spread  it  on 
a  platter,  roll  it  into  balls,  when  cooled  fiatten  each;  dip  them  in  egg  and  bread- 
crmiibs,  and  fry  in  a  wire  basket,  dipped  in  hot  lard. 

BROILED  VEAL  CUTLETS.    (Fine.) 

Two  or  three  pounds  of  veal  cutlets,  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  minced  savory  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Cut  the  cutlets  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  flatten  them,  and 
brush  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  dip  them  into  bread-crumbs  and 
minced  herbs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fold  each  cutlet  in  a  piece  of  white 
letter  paper  well  buttered;  twist  the  ends,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fibre;  when  done 
remove  the  paper.    Cooked  this  way,  they  retain  aU  the  flavor. 

VEAL  FOT-FIE. 

Procure  a  nice  breast  or  brisket  of  veal,  well  jointed,  put  the  pieces  into  the 
pot  with  one  quart  of  water  to  every  five  pounds  of  meat;  put  the  pot  over  a 
slow  fire;  just  before  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  it  well  and  pour  in  a  teacupful  of 
cold  water;  then  turn  over  the  meat  in  order  that  all  the  scum  may  rise,  remove 


MEATS.  115 

all  the  scum,  boil  quite  hard,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste,  always 
remembering  that  the  crust  will  take  up  i)art  of  the  seasoning;  when  this  is 
done  cut  off  your  cixist  in  pieces  of  equal  size,  but  do  not  roll  or  mould  them; 
lay  them  on  top  of  the  meat,  so  as  to  cover  it;  put  the  hd  on  the  pot  closely,  let 
the  whole  boil  slowly  one  hour.  If  the  lid  does  not  fit  the  pot  closely,  wrap  a 
cloth  around  it,  in  order  that  no  steam  shall  escape;  and  by  no  means  allow  the 
pot  to  stop  hailing. 

The  crust  for  pot-pie  should  be  raised  with  yeast*  To  three  pints  of  flour  add 
two  ounces  of  butter,  a  Uttle  salt,  and  wet  with  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  soft 
dough;  knead  it  well  and  set  it  away  to  rise;  when  quite  Ught,  mould  and  knead 
it  again,  and  let  it  stand,  in  winter,  one  hour,  in  summer,  one  half  hour,  when 
it  will  be  ready  to  cut. 

In  summer  you  had  better  add  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  when  you 
knead  it  the  second  time,  or  you  may  wet  it  with  water,  and  add  another  bit  of 
butter. 

VEAL  PIE. 

Cut  the  veal  into  rather  small  pieces  or  sUces,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  hot 
water  to  cover  it;  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  the  fire;  take 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises;  when  the  meat  is  tender  turn  it  into  a  dish  to  cool;  take 
out  all  the  small  bones,  butter  a  tin  or  earthen  basin  or  pudding-pan,  line  it  with 
pie  paste,  lay  some  of  the  parboiled  meat  in  to  half  fill  it;  put  bits  of  butter  in 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  all  over  the  meat;  shake  pepper  over,  dredge  wheat  flour 
over,  until  it  looks  white,  then  fill  it  nearly  to  the  top  with  some  of  the  water  in 
which  the  meat  was  boiled;  roll  a  cover  for  the  top  of  the  crust,  puff-paste  it, 
giving  it  two  or  three  turns,  and  roll  it  to  nearly  half  an  inch  thickness;  cut  a 
sht  in  the  centre,  and  make  several  small  incisions  on  either  side  of  it,  put  the 
crust  on,  trim  the  edges  neatly  with  a  knife;  bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  A 
breast  of  veal  will  make  two  two- quart  basin  pies;  half  a  pound  of  nice  corned 
pork,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  parboiled  with  the  meat,  will  make  it  very  nice,  and 
very  Uttle,  if  any,  butter,  will  be  required  for  the  pie;  when  pork  is  used,  no 
other  salt  will  be  necessary.  Many  are  fond  of  thin  shces  of  sweet  ham  cooked 
with  the  veal  for  pie. 

VEAL  STEW. 

Cut  up  two  or  three  poimds  of  veal  into  pieces  three  inches  long  and  one 
thick.     Wash  it,  put  it  in  your  stew-pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  let  it  boil 
skim  it  well,  and,  when  all  the  scum  is  removed,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  your 


ii6 


MEATS. 


taste^  and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  pare  and  cut  in  halves  twelve  small  Irish 
potatoes,  put  them  into  the  stew-pan;  when  it  boils,  have  ready  a  batter  made 
with  two  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  a  little  salt  and  flour  enough  to 
make  it  a  little  thicker  than  for  pan-cakes ;  drop  this  into  the  stew,  a  spoonful  at 
a  time,  while  it  is  boiling;  when  all  is  in,  cover  the  pan  closely  so  that  no  steam 
can  escape;  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

VEAL  LOAF, 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal,  chopped  very  fine,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three 
eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk;  if  milk  iise  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
mix  the  eggs  and  cream  together;  mix  with  the  veal  four  pounded  crackers,  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  black  pepper,  one  lai^e  tablespoonf ul  salt,  one  large  tablespoonftd 
of  sage;  mix  well  together  and  form  into  a  loaf.  Bake  two  and  one-half  hours, 
basting  with  butter  and  water  while  baking.    Serve  cut  in  thin  slices. 

VEAL  FOR  LUNCH. 

Butter  a  good-sized  bowl,  and  Une  it  with  thin  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  have 
veal  and  ham  both  in  very  thin  slices;  place  in  the  bowl  a  layer  of  veal,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  then  a  layer  of  ham,  omitting  the  salt,  then  a  layer  of  veal,  and 
so  on,  alternating  with  veal  and  ham,  until  the  bowl  is  filled;  make  a  paste  of 
flour  and  water,  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  rolled  out;  cover  the  contents  of  the  bowl 
with  the  paste,  and  over  this  tie  a  double  cotton  cloth;  put  the  bowl  into  a  sauce- 
pan, or  other  vessel,  with  water  just  up  to  the  rim  of  the  bowl,  and  boil  three 
hours;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  remove  the  cloth  and  paste,  and  let  it  stand 
until  the  next  day,  when  it  may  be  turned  out  and  served  in  very  thin  slices. 
An  excellent  lunch  in  travelling. 

VEAL  PATTIES. 

Out  portions  of  the  neck  or  breast  of  veal  into  small  pieces,  and,  with  a  Uttle 
salt  pork  cut  fine,  stew  gently  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  celery  chopped  coarsely,  also  of  the  yellow  top,  picked 
(not  chopped)  up;  stir  in  a  paste  made  of  a  tablespoonftd  of  flour  the  yolk  of  one 
«gg,  and  millr  to  form  a  thin  batter;  let  all  come  to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
patties.  Make  the  patties  of  a  light,  flaky  crust,  a^for  tarts,  cut  round,  the 
size  of  a  small  sauce-plate;  the  centre  of  each,  for  about  three  inches,  cut  half 
way  through,  to  be  raised  and  serve  as  a  cover.  Put  a  spoonful  of  the  stew  in 
each  crust,  lay  on  the  top,  and  serve.  Stewed  oysters  or  lamb  may  be  used  in 
place  of  veal. 


MEATS.  117 

BRAISED  VEAL. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  shoulder  weighing  about  five  pounds.  Have  the  bone 
Temoved  and  tie  up  the  meat  to  make  it  firm.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
half  an  egg,  together  with  a  few  shavings  of  onion,  into  a  kettle  or  stone  crock 
-and  let  it  get  hot.  Salt  and  pepper  the  veal  and  put  it  into  the  kettle,  cover  it 
iightly  and  put  it  over  a  medium  fire  until  the  meat  is  brown  on  both  sides, 
"turning  it  occasionally.  Then  set  the  kettle  back  on  the  stove,  where  it  will 
•sinmier  slowly  for  about  two  hours  and  a  half.  Before  setting  the  meat  back  on 
the  stove,  see  if  the  juice  of  the  meat  together  with  the  butter  do  not  make  gravy 
enough,  and  if  not,  put  in  about  two  tablespoonf uls  of  hot  water.  When  the 
.gravy  is  cold  it  will  be  like  jelly.  It  can  be  served  hot  with  the  hot  meat,  or  cold 
with  the  cold  meat. 

BAKED  CALF'S  HEAD. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  (after  having  cleaned  it)  until  tender,  then  spht  it  in  two, 
and  keep  the  best  half;  (bone  it  if  you  hke);  cut  the  meat  from  the  other  in  uni- 
form pieces;  the  size  of  an  oyster;  put  bits  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  all 
over  the  best  half  of  the  head;  sprinkle  pepper  over  it,  and  dredge  on  flour  until 
it  looks  white,  then  set  it  on  a  trivet  or  muffin  rings  in  a  dripping-pan;  put  a 
cup  of  water  into  the  pan,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven;  turn  it  that  it  may  brown 
evenly;  baste  once  or  twice.  Whilst  this  is  doing,  dip  the  prepared  pieces  of 
the  head  in  wheat  flour  or  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping  a  delicate 
brown;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  sUces  of  lemon,  if  hked.  When  the 
roast  is  done  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  fried  pieces  around  it,  and  cover  it  with 
A  tin  cover;  put  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan  into  the  pan  in  which  the 
pieces  were  fried,  with  the  slices  of  lemon,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour, 
and,  if  necessary,  a  little  hot  water.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and  strain  it  into  a 
.gravy  boat,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

CALF'S  HEAD  CHEESE. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones; 
then  take  it  with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray;  take  from  it  every 
particle  of  bone;  chop  it  small;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  will  be  sufficient;  if  hked,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  sweet  herbs;  lay  in  a  cloth  in  a  colander,  put  the 
minced  meat  into  it,  then  fold  the  cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  plate  over,  and  on 
it  a  gentle  weight.  When  cold  it  may  be  sliced  thin  for  supper  or  sandwiches. 
Spread  each  slice  with  made  mustard. 


Il8  MEATS. 

BRAIN  CUTLETS. 

Well  wash  the  hrains  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  till  white.  Parboil  them 
till  tender  in  a  small  sauce-pan  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  thoroughly 
drain  them,  and  place  them  on  a  board.  Divide  them  into  small  pieces  with  a 
knife.  Dip  each  piece  into  flom*,  and  then  roll  them  in  egg  and  bread-cnmibs, 
and  fry  them  in  butter  or  well-clarified  dripping.  Serve  very  hot  with  gravy. 
Another  way  of  doing  brains  is  to  prepare  them  as  above,  and  then  stew  them 
gently  in  rich  stock,  like  stewed  sweetbreads.  They  are  also  nice  plainly  boiled^ 
and  served  with  parsley  and  butter  sauce. 

CALF'S  HEAD  BOILED. 

Put  the  head  into  boiling  water  and  let  it  remain  about  five  minutes;  take  it 
out,  hold  it  by  the  ear,  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  scrape  off  the  hair,  (should 
it  not  come  off  easily,  dip  the  head  again  in  boiUng  water).  When  perfectly 
clean,  take  the  eyes  out,  cut  off  the  ears,  and  i-emove  the  brain,  which  soak  for 
an  hour  in  warm  water.  Put  the  head  to  soak  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes  to 
make  it  look  white,  and  then  have  ready  a  stew-pan,  into  which  lay  the  head; 
cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  biing  it  gradually  to  boil.  Remove  the  scum,  and 
add  a  little  salt,  which  increases  it  and  causes  it  to  rise  to  the  top.  Simmer  it 
very  gently  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  hoinrs,  or  imtil  the  bones  will  slip  out 
easily,  and  when  nearly  done,  boil  the  brains  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  skin  and 
chop  them,  (not  too  finely),  and  add  a  tablespoonf ul  of  minced  parsley  which  has 
been  previously  scalded;  also  a  pinch  of  pepper,  salt;  then  stir  into  this  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  keep  it  hot. 
When  the  head  is  done,  take  it  up,  and  drain  very  dry.  Score  the  top  and  rub 
it  over  with  melted  butter;  dredge  it  with  fiour,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

When  you  serve  the  head,  have  it  accompanied  with  a  gravy  boat  of  melted 
butter  and  minced  parsley. 

CALF'S  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Slice  the  Uver  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  pour  hot  water  over  it,  and  let  it 
remain  for  a  few  minutes  to  clear  it  from  blood;  then  dry  it  in  a  cloth.  Take  a 
pound  of  bacon,  or  as  much  as  you  require,  and  cut  the  same  number  of  thin 
sUces  as  you  have  of  hver;  fry  the  bacon  to  a  nice  crisp;  take  it  out  and  keep  it 
hot;  then  fry  the  Uver  in  the  same  pan,  having  first  seasoned  it  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  dredged  in  a  little  floiu*;  lay  it  in  the  hot  bacon  fat  and  fry  it  a  nice 
brown.    Serve  it  with  a  slice  of  bacon  on  the  top  of  each  slice  of  Uver. 


MEATS.  119 

K  you  wish  a  gravy  with  it,  poiir  off  most  of  the  fat  from  the  frying-pan,  put 
in  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  well  rubbed  in,  add  a  cup 
of  water,  salt  and  pepper,  give  it  one  boil  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Another  way. — Cut  the  liver  in  nice  thin  slices,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
and  let  it  stand  about  five  minutes;  then  drain  and  put  in  a  dripping-pan  with 
three  or  four  thin  sUces  of  salt  pork  or  bacon;  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  the 
oven,  letting  it  cook  until  thoroughly  done,  then  serve  with  a  cream  or  milk 
gravy  poured  over  it. 

Calf's  liver  and  bacon  are  very  good  broiled  after  cutting  each  in  thin  slices. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

BOILED  CALF'S  FEET. 

Two  calf's  feet,  two  slices  of  bacon,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  whole  pepper  to  taste,  one  onion,  a  bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  four  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  water,  parsley  and  butter. 

Procure  two  white  calf's  feet;  bone  them  as  far  as  the  first  joint,  and  put 
them  into  warm  water  to  soak  for  two  hours.  Then  put  the  bacon,  butter, 
lemon- juice,  onion,  herbs,  spices,  and  seasoning  into  a  stew-pan;  lay  in  the  feet, 
and  pour  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  whole.  Stew  gently  for  about 
three  hours;  take  out  the  feet,  dish  them,  and  cover  with  parsley  and  butter. 

The  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  should  be  strained  and  put  by  in  a  clean  basin 
for  use;  it  will  be  found  very  good  as  an  addition  to  gravies,  etc.,  etc.  It  will 
take  about  three  hours  to  cook. 

SWEETBREADS. 

There  are  two  in  a  calf,  which  are  considered  delicacies.  Select  the  largest. 
The  color  should  be  clear  and  a  shade  darker  than  the  fat.  Before  cooking  in 
any  manner  let  them  lie  for  half  an  hour  in  tepid  water;  then  throw  into  hot 
water  to  whiten  and  harden,  after  which  draw  off  the  outer  casing,  remove  the 
little  pipes,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.    They  should  always  be  thoroughly  cooked. 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

After  preparing  them  as  above  they  are  put  into  hot  fat  and  butter,  and  fried 
the  same  as  lamb  chop,  also  broiled  the  same,  first  rolling  them  in  egg  and 
cracker-crumbs. 

BAKED  SWEETBREADS. 

Three  sweetbreads,  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  oiled  butter,  three  slices  of  toast, 
brown  gravy. 

Choose  large,  white  sweetbreads;  put  them  into  warm  water  to  draw  out  the 


I20  MEATS. 

blood,  and  to  improve  their  color;  let  them  remain  for  rather  more  than  one 
hour;  then  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  allow  them  to  simmer  for  about  ten 
minutes,  which  renders  them  firm.  Take  them  up,  drain  them,  brush  over  the 
egg,'  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs;  dip  them  in  egg  again,  and  then  into  more 
bread-crumbs.  Drop  on  them  a  little  oiled  butter,  and  put  the  sweetbreads  into- 
a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  let  them  bake  for  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Make  three  pieces  of  toast;  place  the  sweetbreads  on  the  toast,  and  pour  rounds 
but  not  over  them,  a  good  brown  gravy. 

FRICASSEED  SWEETBREADS. 

K  they  are  imcooked,  cut  into  thin  slices,  let  them  simmer  in  a  rich  gravy  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  stir  all  together  for  a  few  minutes  and 
serve  immediately. 


^l^utton  anb  Xamb^ 

ROAST  MUTTON. 

The  pieces  mostly  used  for  roasting  are  the  hind  quarter  of  the  sheep,  called 
the  loin  and  leg,  the  fore-quarter,  the  shoulder,  also  the  chine  or  saddle,  which  is 
the  two  loins  together.  Every  part  should  be  trimmed  off  that  cannot  be  eaten; 
then  wash  well  and  dry  with  a  clean  cloth;  lay  it  in  your  dripping-pan  and  put 
in  a  Uttle  water  to  baste  it  with  at  first;  then  afterward  with  its  own  gravy. 
Allow,  in  roasting,  about  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound;  that  is,  if  your  fire  is 
strong,  which  it  should  be.  It  should  not  be  salted  at  first,  as  that  tends  to 
harden  it,  and  draws  out  too  much  of  the  blood  or  juices;  but  salt  soon  after  it 
begins  to  roast  well.  If  there  is  danger  of  its  browning  too  fast,  cover  it  with  a 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Baste  it  often,  and  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you 
think  it  will  be  done  dredge  the  meat  very  lightly  with  flour  and  baste  it  with 
butter.  Skim  the  gravy  well  and  thicken  very  sUghtly  with  brown  flour.  Serve 
with  currant  jelly  or  other  tart  sauce. 

BONED  LEG  OF  MUTTON  ROASTED. 

Take  the  bone  out  of  a  small  leg  of  mutton,  without  spoiling  the  skin  if 
possible,  then  cut  off  most  of  the  fat.  In  the  hole  whence  the  bone  was 
taken,  fill  with  a  stuffing  made  the  same  as  for  fowls,  adding  to  it  part  of  an 


MEATS.  121 

onion  finely  minced.  Sew  the  leg  up  underneath  to  prevent  the  dressing  or 
stufiing  from  falling  out.  Bind  and  tie  it  up  compactly;  put  it  in  a  roasting- 
pan,  turn  in  a  cupful  of  hot  water  and  place  it  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  bast- 
ing it  occasionally.  When  partly  cooked  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
thoroughly  cooked,  remove  and  place  the  leg  on  a  warm  platter;  skim  the  grease 
from  the  top  of  the  drippings,  add  a  cup  of  water  and  thicken  with  a  spoonful 
of  dissolved  flour.  Send  the  gravy  to  the  table  in  a  gravy  dish,  also  a  dish  of 
currant  jelly. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

To  prepare  a  leg  of  mutton  for  boiling,  wash  it  clean,  cut  a  small  piece  off  the 
shank  bone,  and  trim  the  knuckle.  Put  it  into  a  pot  with  water  enough  to  cover 
it,  and  boil  gently  from  two  to  three  hours,  skimming  well.  Then  take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  keeping  the  pot  well  covered,  let  it  finish  by  remaining  in  the  steam 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  it  up  with  a  sauce-boat  of  melted  butter,  into 
which  a  teacupful  of  capers  or  nasturtiums,  have  been  stirred.  If  the  broth  is  to 
be  used  for  soup,  put  in  a  little  salt  while  boiling;  if  not,  salt  it  well  when  partly 
done,  and  boil  the  meat  in  a  cloth. 

BRAISED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

This  recipe  can  be  varied  either  by  preparing  the  leg  with  a  stuffing,  placed  in 
the  cavity  after  having  the  bone  removed,  or  cooking  it  without.  Having  lined 
the  bottom  of  a  thick  iron  kettle  or  stew-pan  with  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon,  put 
over  the  bacon  four  carrots,  three  onions,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs;  then  over 
these  place  the  leg  of  mutton.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  few  more  slices  of  bacon, 
then  pour  over  half  of  a  pint  of  water.  Cover  with  a  tight  cover  and  stew  very 
gently  for  four  hours,  basting  the  leg  occasionally  with  its  own  Uquor,  and  sea- 
soning it  with  salt  and  pepper  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  be  tender.  When  cooked 
strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  (it  should  be  quite  brown), 
pour  some  of  it  over  the  meat  and  send  the  remainder  to  the  table  in  a  tureen, 
to  be  served  with  the  mutton  when  carved.  Garnish  the  dish  around  the  leg 
with  potatoes  cut  in  the  shape  of  olives  and  fried  a  hght  brown  in  butter. 

LEG    OF  MUTTON  A  LA  VENISON. 

Remove  all  the  rough  fat  from  the  mutton  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish; 
rub  into  it  thoroughly  the  following:  One  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  each  of 
celery-salt,  brown  sugar,  black  pepper,  English  mustard,  allspice,  and  some  sweet 
herbs,  all  powdered  and  mixed;  after  which  poxu*  over  it  slowly  a  teacup  of  good 
vinegar,  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  four  or  five  days,  turning  it  and 


122  MEATS. 

basting  often  with  the  liquid  each  day.  To  cook,  put  in  a  kettle  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  place  over  it  an  inverted  shallow  pan,  and  on  it  lay  the  meat  just  as 
removed  from  the  pickle;  cover  the  kettle  tightly  and  stew  four  hours.  Do  not 
let  the  water  touch  the  meat.  Add  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  the  pickle  remaining 
and  baste  with  it.  When  done,  thicken  the  Hquid  with  flour  and  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  to  serve  with  the  meat;  also  a  relish  of  currant  jelly,  the  same  as  for 
venison. 

This  is  a  fine  dish  when  the  directions  are  faithfully  followed. 

STEAMED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Wash  and  put  the  leg  in  a  steamer  and  cook  it  until  tender,  then  place  in  a 
roasting  pan,  salt  and  dredge  well  with  flour  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely 
browned;  the  water  that  remains  in  the  bottom  of  the  steamer  may  be  used  for 
soup.    Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

HASHED  MUTTON. 

Cut  into  small  nieces  the  lean  of  some  cold  mutton  that  has  been  xmderdone, 
and  season  it  wich  ^pper  and  salt.  Take  the  bones  and  other  trimmings,  put 
them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  some  sliced 
onions,  and  let  them  stew  till  you  have  drawn  from  them  a  good  gravy.  Having 
skimmed  it  well,  strain  the  gravy  into  a  stew-pan,  and  put  the  mutton  into  it. 
Have  ready-boiled  some  carrots,  turnips,  potatoes  and  onions.  Slice  them  and 
add  to  the  meat  and  gravy.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  till  the 
meat  is  warmed  through,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  as  it  has  been  once  cooked 
already.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Lay  the  meat 
and  vegetables  upon  it,  and  pour  over  them  the  gravy. 

Tomatoes  will  be  found  an  improvement. 

If  green  peas  or  lima  beans  are  in  season,  you  may  boil  them  and  put  them 
to  the  hashed  mutton,  leaving  out  the  other  vegetables,  or  serving  them  up 
separately. 

BROILED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 
Loin  of  mutton,  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cut  the  chops  from 
a  tenderloin  of  mutton,  remove  a  portion  of  the  fat,  and  trim  them  into  a  nice 
shape;  slightly  beat  and  level  them;  place  the  gridiron  over  a  bright,  clear  fire, 
rub  the  bars  with  a  little  fat,  and  lay  on  the  chops.  While  broiling  frequently 
turn  them,  and  in  about  eight  minutes  they  will  be  done.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  dish  them  on  a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  chop, 
and  serve  very  hot  and  expeditiously.    Nice  with  tomato  sauce  poured  over  them. 


MEATS. 


123 


FRIED  MUTTON  CHOPS.  No.  i. 
Put  into  a  frying-pan  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  lard  and  butter  mixed;  have 
some  fine  mutton  chops  without  much  fat;  trim  off  the  skin.  Dip  each  in  wheat 
flour,  or  rolled  cracker,  and  beaten  egg,  then  lay  them  into  the  hot  grease, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  on  both  sides  a  fine  brown.  When  done,  take 
them  up  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  If  you  wish  a  made  gravy,  turn  off  the  super- 
fluous grease,  if  any,  stir  into  the  hot  gravy  remaining  a  heaping  spoonful  of 
flour,  stirring  it  until  smooth  and  free  from  lumps,  then  turn  into  that  a  cup  of 
cold  water  or  milk;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it  boil  up  thick.  You  can 
serve  it  in  a  separate  dish  or  pour  it  over  the  chops.  Tomato  sauce  is  considered 
fine,  turned  over  a  dish  of  hot  fried  or  broiled  chops. 

FRIED  MUTTON  CHOPS.    No.  2. 

Prepare  the  chops  by  trimming  off  all  extra  fat  and  skin,  season  them  with 
salt  and  pepper;  dip  each  chop  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  cracker  or  bread- 
crumbs; dip  again  in  the  egg  and  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  they  are  weU  coated 
with  the  crumbs.  Have  ready  a  deep  spider  containing  a  poimd  or  more  of  lard, 
hot  enough  to  fry  cruUers.  Drop  into  this  hot  lard  the  chops,  frying  only  a  few 
at  one  time,  as  too  many  cool  the  fat.  Fry  them  brown,  and  serve  up  hot  and 
dry,  on  a  warm  platter. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS.    (Baked). 

Prepare  them  the  same  as  for  frying,  lay  them  in  a  dripping  pan  with  a  very 
little  water  at  the  bottom.  Bake  quickly,  and  baste  often  with  butter  and  water. 
Make  a  little  brown  gravy  and  turn  over  them  when  they  are  served. 

BAKED  MUTTON  CHOPS  AND  POTATOES. 
Wash  and  peel  some  good  potatoes  and  cut  them  into  slices  the  thickness  of 
a  penny -piece.  The  quantity  of  potatoes  must,  of  course,  be  decided  according 
to  the  number  of  persons  to  whom  they  have  to  be  served;  but  it  is  a  safe  plan 
to  allow  two,  or  even  three,  potatoes  for  each  person.  After  the  potatoes  are 
sliced,  wash  them  in  two  or  three  waters,  to  thoroughly  cleanse  them;  then 
arrange  them  neatly  (in  layers)  in  a  brown  stone  dish  proper  for  baking  purposes. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  between  each  layer,  and  add  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  cold  water  to  prevent  their  burning.  Place  the  dish  in  a  very  hot  oven — on 
the  top  shelf — so  as  to  brown  the  potatoes  in  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  some 
nice  loin  chops  (say  one  for  each  person);  trim  off  most  of  the  fat;  make  them 
into  a  neat  round  shape  by  putting  a  small  skewer  through  each.    When  the 


124  MEATS. 

potatoes  are  niody  browned,  Temove  the  dish  from  the  oven,  and  place  the  chops 
on  the  top.  Add  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper,  and  water  if  required,  and  return 
the  dish  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  oven,  where  it  may  be  allowed  to  remain  until 
sufficiently  cooked,  which  will  be  in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  the 
upper  sides  of  the  chops  are  a  nice  crisp  brown,  turn  them  over  so  as  to  brown 
the  other  side  also.  If,  in  the  cooking,  the  potatoes  appear  to  be  getting  too  dry, 
a  Uttle  more  water  may  be  gently  poured  in  at  one  comer  of  the  dish,  only  care 
must  be  taken  to  see  that  the  water  is  hot  this  time— hot  cold,  as  at  first.  The 
dish  in  which  the  chops  and  potatoes  are  baked  must  be  as  neat-looking  as  possi- 
ioiie,  as  it  has  to  be  sent  to  the  table;  turning  the  potatoes  out  would,  of  course, 
spoil  their  appearance.  Those  who  have  never  tasted  this  dish  have  no  idea 
how  delightful  it  is.  While  the  chops  are  baking  the  gravy  drips  from  them 
among  the  potatoes,  rendering  the  whole  most  delicious. 

MUTTONETTES. 

Cut  from  a  leg  of  mutton  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  On  each  slice  lay  a 
spoonful  of  stuffing  made  with  bread-crumbs,  beaten  egg,  butter,  salt,  pepper, 
sage  and  summer  savory.  Boll  up  the  slices,  pinning  with  Uttle  skewers  or 
small  wooden  toothpicks  to  keep  the  dressing  in.  Put  a  Uttle  butter  and  water 
in  a  baking-pan  with  the  muttonettes,  and  cook  in  hot  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Baste  often,  and  when  done  thicken  the  gravy,  pour  over  the  meat» 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  on  hot  platter. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Time  about  two  hours.  Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  chops,  eight  potatoes,  four 
turnips,  four  smaU  onions,  nearly  a  quart  of  water.  Take  some  chops  from  loin 
of  mutton,  place  them  in  stew-pan  in  alternate  layers  of  sUced  potatoes  and 
chops;  add  turnips  and  onions  cut  into  pieces,  pour  in  nearly  a  quart  of  cold 
water;  cover  stew-pan  closely,  let  it  stew  gently  tiU  vegetables  are  ready  to  mash 
and  the  greater  part  of  the  gravy  is  absorbed;  then  pkice  in  a  dish;  serve  it  up  hot. 

MUTTON  PUDDING, 
line  a  two-quart  pudding-basin  with  some  beef  suet  paste;  fill  the  Uning  with 
thick  mutton  cutlets,  sUghtly  trimmed,  or,  if  preferred,  with  steaks  cut  from  the 
1^;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  some  parsley,  a  Uttle  thyme  and  two  sUces  of 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  between  each  layer  of  meat,  put  some  sUces  of  potatoes. 
When  the  pudding  is  filled,  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste  around  the  top  of  the 
basin,  and  cover  with  a  piece  of  paste  rolled  out  the  size  of  the  basin.  Fasten 
down  the  edge  by  bearing  aU  around  with  the  thumb;  and  then  with  the  thumb 


MEATS.  125 

and  forefinger  twist  the  edges  of  the  paste  over  and  over  so  as  to  give  it  a  corded 
appearance.    This  pudding  can  be  set  in  a  steamer  and  steamed,  or  boiled.    The 
tune  required  for  cooking  is  about  three  hours.    When  done,  turn  it  out  care- 
fully on  a  platter  and  serve  with  a  rich  gravy  under  it. 
This  is  a  very  good  recipe  for  cooking  small  birds. 

SCRAMBLED  MUTTON. 

Two  cups  of  chopped  cold  mutton,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  English  walnut.  When  the  meat  is  hot,  break  in 
three  eggs,  and  constantly  stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to  stiffen.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

SCALLOPED  MUTTON  AND  TOMATOES. 
Over  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  baking-dish  place  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs, 
and  over  it  alternate  layers  of  cold  roast  mutton  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  tomatoes 
peeled  and  sliced;  season  each  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  as  laid  in. 
The  top  layer  should  be  of  tomatoes,  spread  over  with  bread-crumbs.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  immediately. 

LAMB  SWEETBREADS  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Lamb  sweetbreads  are  not  always  procurable,  but  a  stroll  through  the  markets 
occasionally  reveals  a  small  lot  of  them,  which  can  invariably  be  had  at  a  low 
price,  owing  to  their  excellence  being  recognized  by  but  few  buyers.  Wash  them 
well  in  salted  water  and  parboil  fifteen  minutes;  when  cool,  trim  neatly  and  put 
them  in  a  pan  with  just  butter  enough  to  prevent  their  burning;  toss  them  about 
until  a  dehcate  color;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve,  surrounded  with 
tomato  sauce.    See  Sauces. 

ROAST  QUARTER  OF  LAMB. 

Procure  a  nice  hind-quarter,  remove  some  of  the  fat  that  is  aroimd  the  kidney, 
skewer  the  lower  joint  up  to  the  fillet,  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven,  let  it  heat 
through  slowly,  then  dredge  it  with  salt  and  flour;  quicken  the  fire,  put  half  a 
pint  of  water  into  the  dripping-pan,  with  iet  teaspoonful  of  salt.  With  this  liquor 
baste  the  meat  occasionally;  serve  with  lettuce,  green  peas,  and  mint  sauce. 

A  quarter  of  lamb  weighing  seven  or  eight  pounds  will  require  two  hours  to 
roast. 

A  breast  of  lamb  roasted  is  very  sweet,  and  is  considered  by  many  as  prefer- 
able to  hind-quarter.  It  i*equires  nearly  as  long  a  time  to  roast  as  the  quarter, 
and  should  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 

Make  the  gravy  from  the  drippings,  thickened  with  flour. 


/ 


1 26  MEATS. 

The  mint  sauce  is  made  as  follows:  Take  fresh,  joimg  spearmint  leaves 
stripped  from  stems;  wash  and  drain  them  or  dry  on  a  doth,  chop  very  fine,  put 
in  a  gravy  tureen,  and  to  three  tablespoonf uls  of  mint  add  two  of  finely  pow- 
dered cut-loaf  sugar;  mix,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes;  then  pour  over  it  six 
tablespoonfuls  good  dder  or  white-wine  vinegar.  The  sauce  should  be  made 
some  time  before  dinner,  so  that  the  flavor  of  the  mint  may  be  well  extracted. 

TO  BROIL  THE  FORE-QUARTER  OF    LAMB. 

Take  off  the  shoulder  and  lay  it  upon  the  gridiron  with  the  breast;  cut  in  two 
parts,  to  facilitate  its  cooking;  put  a  tin  sheet  on  top  of  the  meat,  and  a  weight 
upon  that;  turn  the  meat  around  frequently  to  prevent  its  burning;  turn  over 
as  soon  as  cooked  on  one  side;  renew  the  coals  occasionally,  that  all  parts  may 
cook  alike;  when  done,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,— exactly  like  beef- 
steak. It  takes  some  time  to  broil  it  well;  but  when  done  it  will  be  found  to  be 
equal  to  broiled  chicken,  the  flavor  being  more  delicate  than  when  cooked  other- 
wise. Serve  with  cream  sauce,  made  as  follows:  Heat  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  sauce-pan,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth;  then 
add,  slowly  stirring  in,  a  cup  of  cold  milk;  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  fresh  parsley.  Serve 
in  a  gravy  boat,  all  hot. 

LAMB  STEW. 

Cut  up  the  lamb  into  small  pieces  (after  removing  aU  the  fat),  say  about  two 
inches  square.  Wash  it  well  and  put  it  over  the  fire,  with  just  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  it  weU,  and  let  it  heat  gradually.  It  should  stew  gently  until  it 
is  partly  done;  then  add  a  few  thih  slices  of  salt  pork,  one  or  two  onions  sliced 
up  fine,  some  pepper  and  salt  if  needed,  and  two  or  three  raw  potatoes  cut  up 
into  inch  pieces.  Cover  it  closely  and  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Drop  in  a 
few  made  dumplings,  made  like  short  biscuit,  cut  out  very  small.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  httle  flour  moistened  with  milk. 
Serve. 

PRESSED  LAMB. 

The  meat,  either  shoulder  or  leg,  should  be  put  to  boil  in  the  morning  with 
water  just  enough  to  cover  it;  when  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
keep  it  over  the  fire  until  very  tender  and  the  juice  nearly  boiled  out.  Remove 
it  from  the  fire-place  in  a  wooden  chopping-bowl,  season  more  if  necessary, 
chop  it  up  like  hash.  Place  it  in  a  bread-pau,  press  out  all  the  juice,  and  put  it 
in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  The  pressing  is  generally  done  by  placing  a  dish  over 
the  meat  and  putting  a  flat-iron  upon  that.  Nice  cut  up  cold  into  thin  slices,  and 


MEATS.  127 

the  broth  left  from  the  meat  would  make  a  nice  soup  served  with  it,  adding 
vegetables  and  spices. 

CROQUETTES  OF  ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

These  are  made  of  any  scraps  or  bits  of  good  food  that  happen  to  be  left 
from  one  or  more  meals,  and  in  such  small  quantities  that  they  cannot  be 
warmed  up  separately.  As,  for  example,  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  frizzled  beef 
and  cream,  the  lean  meat  of  one  mutton  chop,  one  spoonful  of  minced  beef,  two 
cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little  cold  chopped  potato,  a  little  mashed  potato,  a 
chick's  leg,  all  the  gristle  and  hard  outside  taken  from  the  meat.  These  things 
well  chopped  and  seasoned,  mixed  with  one  raw  egg,  a  httle  flour  and  butter, 
and  boiling  water;  then  made  into  round  cakes,  thick  like  fish-balls,  and  browned 
well  with  butter  in  a  frying-pan  or  on  a  griddle. 

Scraps  of  hash,  cold  rice,  boiled  oatmeal  left  from  breakfast,  every  kind  of 
fresh  meat,  bits  of  salt  tongue,  bacon,  pork  or  ham,  bits  of  poultry,  and  crumbs 
of  bread,  may  be  used.  They  should  be  put  together  with  care,  so  as  not  to  have 
them  too  dry  to  be  palatable,  or  too  moist  to  cook  in  shape.  Most  housekeepers 
would  be  surprised  at  the  result,  making  an  addition  to  the  breakfast  or  lunch 
table.    Serve  on  small  squares  of  buttered  toast,  and  with  cold  celery  if  in  season. 


Hbotft* 


The  best  parts  and  those  usually  used  for  roasting  are  the  loin,  the  leg,  the 
shoulder,  the  spare-rib  and  chine.  The  hams,  shoulders  and  middlings  are 
usually  salted,  pickled  and  smoked.  Pork  requires  more  thorough  cooking  than 
most  meats;  if  the  least  underdone  it  is  unwholesome. 

To  choose  pork:  if  the  rind  is  thick  and  tough,  and  cannot  be  easily  impressed 
with  the  finger,  it  is  old;  when  fresh,  it  will  look  cool  and  smooth,  and  only 
corn-fed  pork  is  good;  swiU  or  still-fed  pork  is  unfit  to  cure.  Fresh  pork  is  in 
season  from  October  to  April.  When  dressing  or  stuffing  is  used,  there  are  more 
or  less  herbs  used  for  seasoning, — sage,  summer  savory,  thyme,  and  sweet  mar- 
joram; these  can  be  found  (in  the  dried,  pulverized  form,  put  up  in  small,  light 
packages)  at  most  of  the  best  druggists;  still  those  raised  and  gathered  at  home 
are  considered  more  fresh. 

ROAST  PIG. 

Prepare  your  dressing  as  for  "Dressing  for  Fowls, '*  adding  half  an  onion, 
chopped  fine;  set  it  inside.    Take  a  young  pig  about  six  weeks  old,  wash  it 


128  MEATS. 

thoroughly  mside  and  outside,  and  in  another  water  put  a  teasi)oonful  of  baking 
soda,  and  rinse  out  the  inside  again;  wipe.it  dry  with  a  fresh  towel,  salt  the 
inside  and  stuff  it  with  the  prepared  dressing;  marking  it  full  and  phimp,  giving 
it  its  original  size  and  shape.  Sew  it  up,  place  it  in  a  kneeling  posture  in  the 
dripping-pan,  tying  the  legs  in  proper  position.  Pour  a  little  hot  salted  water 
into  the  dripping-pan,  baste  with  butter  and  water  a  few  times  as  the  pig  warms; 
afterwards  with  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan.  When  it  begins  to  smoke  all  over 
rub  it  often  with  a  rag  dipped  in  melted  butter.  This  will  keep  the  skin  from 
cracking  and  it  still  wiU  be  crisp.  It  will  take  from  two  to  three  hours  to 
Toast.  Make  the  gravy  by  flkimming  off  most  of  the  grease;  stir  into  that 
remaining  in  the  pan  a  good  tablespoon  of  flour,  turn  in  water  to  make  it  the 
right  consistency,  season  with  peppei"  and  let  all  boil  up  once.  Strain^  and  if 
you  like  wine  in  it,  add  half  a  glass;  turn  it  into  agravy  boat.  Place  the  pig 
upon  a  large,  hot  platter,  surrounded  with  parsley  or  celery  tops;  place  a  green 
wreath  around  the  neck,  and  a  sprig  of  celery  in  its  mouth.  In  carving,  cut  off 
its  head  first;  split  down  the  back,  take  off  its  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separate 
the  ribs. 

ROAST  LOIN  OF  PORK. 

Score  the  skin  in  strips  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart;  place  it  ina  dripping- 
pan  with  a  very  little  water  under  it;  cook  it  moderately  at  first,  as  a  high  heat 
hardens  the  rind  before  the  meat  is  heated  through.  If  it  is  very  lean,  it  should 
be  rubbed  with  fresh  lard  or  butter  when  put  into  the  pan.  A  stu£Sng  might 
be  made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  sage  and  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and  baked 
separately  on  a  pie  dish;  this  method  is  better  than  putting  it  in  the  meat,  as 
many  persons  have  a  great  aversion  to  its  flavor.  A  loin  weighing  about  six 
pounds  will  roast  in  two  hours;  allow  more  time  if  it  should  be  very  fat.  Make 
a  gravy  with  flour  stirred  into  the  pork  drippings.  Serve  with  apple  sauce  and 
pickles. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK. 

Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork;  cut  a  slit  in  the  knuckle  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  fiU  the  space  with  sage  and  onion  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.  When  half  done,  score  the  skin  in  shoes,  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the 
outer  rind.  Apple  sauce  and  potatoes  should  be  served  with  it.  The  gravy  is  to 
be  made  the  same  way  as  for  beef  roast,  by  turning  off  all  the  superfluous  fat 
and  adding  a  spoonful  of  flour  stirred  with  a  Httle  water;  add  water  to  make  the 
right  consistency.    Serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 


MEATS.  129 

BOILED  LEG  OF  PORK, 

For  boiling,  choose  a  small,  compact,  well-filled  leg,  and  rub  it  well  with  salt; 
let  it  remain  in  pickle  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  turning  and  rubbing  it  every  da)^ 
An  hour  before  dressing  it  put  it  into  cold  water  for  an  hour,  which  improves 
the  color.  If  the  pork  is  purchased  ready  salted,  ascertain  how  long  the  meat 
has  been  in  pickle,  and  soak  it  accordingly.  Put  it  into  a  boiling-pot,  with  suffi- 
cient cold  water  to  cover  it;  let  it  gradually  come  to  a  boil,  and  remove  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  Simmer  it  very  gently  until  tender,  and  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  fast, 
or  the  knuckle  will  fall  to  pieces  before  the  middle  of  the  leg  is  done.  Carrots, 
turnips  or  parsnips  may  be  boiled  with  the  pork,  some  of  which  should  be  laid 
around  the  dish  as  a  garnish. 

Time, — A  leg  of  pork  weighing  eight  pounds,  three  hours  after  the  water 
boils,  and  to  be  simmered  v6ry  gently. 

FRESH  PORK  POT-PIE, 

Boil  a  spare-rib,  after  removing  all  the  fat  and  cracking  the  bones,  xmtil 
tender;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  when  tender  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  half  an  hour  before  time  for  serving  the  dinner  thicken  the  gravy  with 
a  little  flour.  Have  ready  another  kettle,  into  which  remove  all  the  bones  and 
most  of  the  gravy,  leaving  only  sufficient  to  cover  the  pot  half  an  inch  above  the 
rim  that  rests  on  the  stove;  put  in  the  crust,  cover  tight,  and  boil  steadily  forty-five 
minutes.  To  prepare  the  crust,  work  into  light  dough  a  small  bit  of  butter, 
roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  in  small  square  cakes,  and  lay  them  on  the  moulding-board 
until  very  light.  No  steam  should  possibly  escape  while  the  crust  is  cooking,  and 
by  no  means  allow  the  pot  to  cease  boiling. 

ROAST  SPARE-RIB. 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle,  rub  with 
salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff  with  turkey  dressing,  sew  up 
tightly,  place  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  baste  frequently,  turning 
over  once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equally  imtil  a  rich  brown. 

PORK  TENDERLOINS. 

The  tenderloins  are  imlike  any  other  part  of  the  pork  in  flavor.  They  may 
be  either  fried  or  broiled;  the  latter  being  dryer,  require  to  be  well-buttered  before 
serving,  which  should  be  done  on  a  hot  platter  before  the  butter  becomes  oily. 
Fry  them  in  a  httle  lard,  turning  them  to  have  them  cooked  through;  when 
done,  remove,  and  keep  hot  while  making  a  gravy  by  dredging  a  little  floiu:  into 


130  MEATS. 

the  hot  fat;  if  not  enough  add  alittle  butter  or  lard^  stir  until  browned,  and  add 
a  little  milk  or  cream,  stir  briskly,  and  pour  over  the  dish.  A  Uttle  Worcester- 
shire sauce  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  if  desired. 

PORK  CUTLETS. 

Cut  them  from  the  leg,  and  remove  the  skin;  trim  them  and  beat  them,  and 
sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper.  Prepare  some  beaten  egg  in  a  pan;  and  on  a  flat 
dish  a  mixture  of  bread-crumbs,  minced  onion  and  sage.  Put  some  lard  or  drip- 
pings into  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  cutlets; 
having  dipped  every  one  first  in  the  egg,  and  then  in  the  seasoning.  Pry  them 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  turning  them  often.  After  you  have  taken  them  out 
of  the  frying-pan,  skim  the  gravy,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  give  it  one  boil,  and 
then  pour  it  on  the  dish  round  the  cutlets. 

Have  apple  sauce  to  eat  with  them. 

Pork  cutlets  prepared  in  this  manner  may  be  stewed  instead  of  being  fried. 
Add  to  them  a  little  water,  and  stew  them  slowly  till  thoroughly  done,  keeping 
them  closely  covered,  except  when  you  remove  the  lid  to  skim  them. 

PORK  CHOPS  AND  FRIED  APPLES. 

Season  the  chops  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  Uttle  powdered  sage;  dip  them 
into  bread-crumbs.  Pry  about  twenty  minutes,  or  imtil  they  are  done.  Put 
them  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  off  part  of  the  gravy  into  another  pan  to  make  a 
gravy  to  serve  with  them,  if  you  choose.  Then  fry  apples  which  you  have  sliced 
about  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  cutting  them  around  the  apple  so  that  the 
core  is  in  the  centre  of  each  piece;  then  cut  out  the  core.  When  they  are 
browned  on  one  side  and  partly  cooked,  turn  them  caref  uUy  with  a  pan-cake 
turner,  and  finish  cooking;  dish  around  the  chops  or  on  a  separate  dish. 

FRIED  PORK  CHOPS. 

Fry  them  the  same  as  mutton  chops.  If  a  sausage  flavor  is  liked,  sprinkle 
over  them  a  httle  powdered  sage  or  summer  savory,  pepper  and  salt,  and  if  a 
gravy  is  liked,  «1nTn  off  some  of  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  flour; 
stir  it  until  free  from  lumps,  then  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  turn  in  a  pint 
of  sweet  mUk.    Boil  up  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

PORK  PIE. 
Make  a  good  plain  paste.    Take  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  pounds  of  the 
thick  ends  of  a  loin  of  pork,  with  very  little  fat  on  it;  cut  into  very  thin  sUces 
three  inches  long  by  two  inches  wide;  put  a  layer  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish. 


MEATS.  131 

Wash  and  chop  finely  a  handful  of  parsley,  also  an  onion.  Sprinkle  a  small 
portion  of  these  over  the  pork,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Add  another  layer 
of  pork,  and  over  that  some  more  of  the  seasoning,  only  be  sparing  of  the  nut- 
meg. Continue  this  till  the  dish  is  full.  Now  pour  into  the  dish  a  cupful  of 
stock  or  water,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  catsup.  Put  a  little  paste  aroimd  the 
edge  of  the  dish;  put  on  the  cover,  and  place  the  pie  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  When 
the  paste  has  risen  and  begins  to  take  color,  place  the  pie  at  the  bottom  of  the 
oven,  with  some  paper  over  it,  as  it  will  require  to  be  baked  at  least  two  hours. 
Some  prefer  to  cook  the  meat  until  partly  done,  before  putting  into  the  crust. 

— Palmer  Bouse,  Chicago. 

PORK  POT-PIE. 

Take  pieces  of  ribs  of  lean  salt  pork,  also  a  slice  or  two  of  the  fat  of  salt  pork; 
scald  it  well  with  hot  water  so  as  to  wash  out  the  briny  taste.  Put  it  into  a 
kettle  and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  enough  for  the  required  want.  Cover  it  and 
boil  an  hour,  season  with  pepper;  then  add  half  a  dozen  potatoes  cut  into 
quarters.  When  it  all  commences  to  boil  again,  drop  in  dumplings  made  from 
this  recipe: 

One  pint  of  sour  or  buttermilk,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt, 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda;  dissolve  in  a  spoonful  of  water  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Drop  this  into  the  kettle  or  broth  by  spoonfuls,  and 
cook  forty  minutes,  closely  covered. 

PORK  AND  BEANS.    (Baked). 

Take  two  quarts  of  white  beans,  pick  them  over  the  night  before,  put  to  soak 
in  cold  water;  in  the  morning  put  them  in  fresh  water  and  let  them  scald,  then 
turn  off  the  water  and  put  on  more,  hot;  put  to  cook  with  them  a  piece  of  salt 
pork,  gashed,  as  much  as  would  make  five  or  six  slices;  boil  slowly  till  soft  (not 
mashed),  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stir 
in  well,  put  in  a  deep  pan,  and  bake  one  hom*  and  a  half.  If  you  do  not  Uke  to 
use  pork,  salt  the  beans  when  boiling,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  when  preparing 
them  for  the  oven. 

BOSTON  PORK  AND  BEANS. 
Pick  over  carefully  a  quart  of  small,  white  beans;  let  them  soak  over  night 
in  cold  water;  in  the  morning  wash  and  drain  in  another  water.  Put  on  to  boil 
in  plenty  of  cold  water  with  a  piece  of  soda  the  size  of  a  bean;  let  them  come  to 
a  boil,  then  drain  again,  cover  with  water  once  more,  and  boil  them  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  the  skin  of  the  beans  will  crack  when  taken  out  and  blown 


132  MEATS. 

upon.  Drain  the  beans  again,  put  them  into  an  earthen  pot,  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt;  cover  with  hot  water,  place  in  the  centre  of  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  first  scalding  it  with  hot  water,  and  scoring  the  rind  across  the  top,  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  apart  to  indicate  where  the  sUces  are  to  be  cut.  Place  the 
pot  in  the  oven,  and  bake  six  hours  or  longer.  Keep  the  oven  a  moderate  heat; 
add  hot  water  from  the  tea-kettle  as  needed,  on  account  of  evaporation,  to  keep 
the  beans  moist.  When  the  meat  becomes  crisp  and  looks  cooked,  remove  it,  as 
too  long  baking  the  pork  destroys  its  solidity. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK, 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  freshen  in  cold  water,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  crisp.  If 
required  quickly,  pour  boiling  water  over  the  slices,  let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
drain  and  roll  in  flour  as  before;  drain  off  most  of  the  grease  from  the  frying- 
pan;  stir  in  while  hot  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  about  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt  if  over  freshened;  let  it  boil,  and  pour  into  a  gravy 
dish.  A  teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley  will  add  pleasantly  to  the  appear- 
ance of  the  gravy. 

GRILLED  SALT  PORK. 

Take  quite  thin  slices  of  the  thick  part  of  side  pork,  of  a  dear  white,  and 
thinly  streaked  with  lean;  hold  one  on  a  toasting  fork  before  a  brisk  fire  to  griU; 
have  at  hand  a  dish  of  cold  water,  in  which  immerse  it  frequently  while  cook- 
ing, to  remove  the  superfluous  fat  and  render  it  more  delicate.  Put  each  slice 
as  cooked  in  a  warm  covered  pan;  when  all  are  done,  serve  hot. 

FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Cut  slices  of  ham  quite  thin,  cut  off  the  rind  or  skin,  put  them  into  a  hot 
frying-]>an,  turning  them  often  until  crisp,  taking  care  not  to  bum  the  slices; 
three  minutes  will  cook  them  welL  Dish  them  on  a  hot  platter;  then  turn  off 
the  top  of  the  grease,  rinse  out  the  pan,  and  put  back  the  dear  grease  to  fry  the 
eggs.  Break  the  eggs  separately  in  a  saucer,  that  in  case  a  bad  one  should  be 
among  them  it  may  not  mix  with  the  rest.  Shpeach  egg  gently  into  the  frying- 
pan.  Do  not  turn  them  while  they  are  frying,  but  keep  pouring  some  of  the 
hot  lard  over  them  with  a  kitchen  spoon;  this  will  do  them  sufficiently  on  the 
upper  side.  They  wiU  be  done  enough  in  about  three  minutes;  the  white  must 
retain  its  transparency  so  that  the  yolk  will  be  seen  through  it.  When  done, 
take  them  up  with  a  tin  sUce,  drain  off  the  lard,  and  if  any  part  of  the  white  is 
discolored  or  ragged,  trim  it  off.  Lay  a  fried  egg  upon  each  slice  of  the  ham, 
and  send  to  table  hot. 


MEATS.  133 

COLD  BACON  AND  EGGS. 

An  economical  way  of  using  bacon  and  eggs  that  have  been  left  from  a 
previous  meal  is  to  put  them  in  a  wooden  bowl  and  chop  them  quite  fine,  add- 
ing a  little  mashed  or  cold  chopped  potato,  and  a  little  bacon  gravy,  if  any  was 
left.  Mix  and  mould  it  into  little  balls,  roll  in  raw  egg  and  cracker-crumbs,  and 
fry  in  a  spider  the  same  as  frying  eggs;  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve 
hot.    Very  appetizing. 

SCRAPPEL. 

Scrappel  is  a  most  palatable  dish.  Take  the  head,  heart  and  any  lean  scraps 
of  pork,  and  boil  imtil  the  flesh  slips  easily  from  the  bones.  Eemove  the  fat, 
gristle  and  bones,  then  chop  fine.  Set  the  hguor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled 
aside  until  cold,  take  the  cake  of  fat  from  the  surface  and  retm*n  to  the  fire. 
When  it  boils,  put  in  the  chopped  meat  and  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Let  it  boil  again,  then  thicken  with  corn-meal  as  you  would  in  making  ordinary 
corn-meal  mush,  by  letting  it  shp  through  the  fingers  slowly  to  prevent  lum;)s. 
Ck>ok  an  hour,  stirring  constantly  at  first,  afterwards  putting  back  on  the  range 
in  a  position  to  boil  gently.  When  done,  pour  into  a  long,  square  pan,  not  too 
deep,  and  mold.  In  cold  weather  this  can  be  kept  several  weeks.  Cut  into 
slices  when  cold,  and  fried  brown,  as  you  do  mush,  is  a  cheap  and  delicious 
breakfast  dish. 

TO  BAKE  A  HAM.  (Corned.) 

Take  a  medium-sized  ham  and  place  it  to  soak  for  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Then 
cut  away  the  rusty  part  from  underneath,  wipe  it  dry,  and  cover  it  rather  thickly 
over  with  a  paste  made  of  fiour  and  water.  Put  it  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  set 
it  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  When  done,  take  off  the  crust  carefully,  and 
peel  off  the  skin,  put  a  frill  of  cut  paper  aroimd  the  knuckle,  and  raspings  of 
bread  over  the  fat  of  the  ham,  or  serve  it  glazed  and  garnished  with  cut 
vegetables.    It  will  take  about  four  or  five  hours  to  bake  it. 

Ck>oked  in  this  way  the  fiavor  is  much  finer  than  when  boiled. 

PIGS'  FEET  PICKLED. 

Take  twelve  pigs^  feet,  scrape  and  wash  them  clean,  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  enough  hot  (not  boiling)  water  to  cover  them.  When  partly  done,  salt 
them.  It  requires  four  to  five  hours  to  boil  them  soft.  Pack  them  in  a  stone 
crock,  and  pour  over  them  spiced  vinegar  made  hot.  They  will  be  ready  to  use 
in  a  day  or  two.  If  you  wish  them  for  breakfast,  split  them,  make  a  batter  of 
two  eggs,  a  cup  of  milk,  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  with  fiour  enough  to  make 


134  MEATS. 

a  thick  batter;  dip  each  piece  in  this  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Or,  dip  them  in  beaten 
egg  and  flour  and  fry.    Souse  is  good  eaten  cold  or  warm. 

BOILED  HAM. 

First  remove  aU  dust  and  mold,  by  wiping  with  a  coarse  cloth;  soak  it  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  then  wash  it  thoroughly.  Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  the 
hardened  surface  from  the  base  and  butt  of  the  ham.  Place  it  over  the  fire  in 
cold  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  moderate  boil,  keeping  it  steadily  at  this  point, 
allowing  it  to  cook  twenty  minutes  for  every  pound  of  meat.  A  ham  weighing 
twelve  poxmds  will  require  four  hours  to  cook  properly,  as  underdone  ham  is  very 
unwholesome.  When  the  ham  is  to  be  served  hot,  remove  the  skin  by  peeling 
it  off,  place  it  on  a  platter,  the  fat  side  up,  and  dot  the  surface  with  spots  of 
black  pepper.    Stick  in  also  some  whole  cloves. 

If  the  ham  is  to  be  served  cold,  allow  it  to  remain  in  the  pot  until  the  water 
in  which  it  was  cooked  becomes  cold.  This  makes  it  more  juicy.  Serve  it  in 
the  same  manner  as  when  served  hot. 

BROILED  HAM. 

Cut  your  ham  into  thin  slices,  which  should  be  a  little  less  than  one  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick.  Trim  very  closely  the  skin  from  the  upper  side  of  each  slice, 
and  also  trim  off  the  outer  edge  where  the  smoke  has  hardened  the  meat.  If  the 
ham  is  very  salt  lay  it  in  cold  water  for  one  hour  before  cooking,  then  wipe  with 
a  dry  doth.    Never  soak  ham  in  tepid  or  hot  water,  as  it  will  toughen  the  meat. 

Broil  over  a  brisk  fire,  turning  the  slices  condiantly.  It  will  require  about 
five  minutes,  and  should  be  served  the  last  thing  directly  from  the  gridiron, 
placed  on  a  warm  platter,  with  a  little  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper  on  the  top 
of  each  slice.  If  ham  or  bacon  is  allowed  to  stand  by  the  fire  after  it  has  been 
broiled  or  fried,  it  will  speedily  toughen,  losing  all  its  grateful  juices. 

Cold  boiled  ham  is  very  nice  for  broiling,  and  many  prefer  it  to  using  the  raw 
ham. 

POTTED  HAM. 

To  two  pounds  of  lean  hani  allow  one  pound  of  fat,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
powdered  mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  rather  more  than  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne. 

Mode. — Mince  the  ham,  fat  and  lean  together,  in  the  above  proportion,  and 
pound  it  well  in  a  mortar,  seasoning  it  with  cayenne  pepper,  pounded  mace  and 
nutmeg;  put  the  mixture  into  a  deep  baking  dish,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour; 
then  press  it  well  into  a  stone  jar,  fill  up  the  jar  with  clarified  lard,  cover  it 


MEATS.  135 

dosely,  and  paste  over  it  a  piece  of  thick  paper.    11  well  seasoned,  it  will  keep  a 
long  time  in  winter,  and  will  be  found  very  convenient  for  sandwiches,  etc. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGE.  (Cooked.) 
Two  pounds  of  lean  pork,  two  pounds  of  lean  veal,  two  poimds  of  fresh 
lean  beef,  two  pounds  of  fat  salt  pork,  one  pound  beef  suet,  ten  tablespoonf uls  of 
powdered  sage,  one  ounce  each  of  parsley,  savory,  marjoram  and  thyme,  mixed. 
Two  teaspoonf uls  of  cayenne  pepper,  the  same  of  black,  one  grated  nutmeg.,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  minced  onion,  salt  to  taste.  Chop  or  grind  the  meat 
and  suet;  season,  and  stuff  into  beef  skins;  tie  these  up,  prick  each  in  several 
places  to  allow  the  escape  of  steam;  put  into  hot,  not  boiling  water,  and  heat 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point  Cook  slowly  for  one  hour;  take  out  the  skins 
and  lay  them  to  dry  in  the  sun,  upon  clean,  sweet  straw  or  hay.  Rub  the  out- 
side of  the  skins  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  place  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar.  If  you 
wish  to  keep  them  more  than  a  week,  rub  ginger  or  pepper  on  the  outside,  then 
wash  it  off  before  using.  This  is  eaten  without  further  cooking.  Cut  in  round 
shoes  and  lay  sUced  lemon  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  as  many  like  to  squeeze 
a  few  drops  upon  the  sausage  before  eating.  These  are  very  nice  smoked  Uke 
hams. 

COUNTRY  PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Six  pounds  lean  fresh  pork,  three  pounds  of  chine  fat,  three  tablespoonf  uls  of 

salt,  two  of  black  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  poTinded  and  sifted  sage,  two 

of  summer  savory.    Chop  the  lean  and  fat  pork  finely,  mix  the  seasoning  in  with 

your  hands,  taste  to  see  that  it  has  the  right  flavor,  then  put  them  into  cases, 

either  the  cleaned  intestines  of  the  hog,  or  noiake  long,  narrow  bags  of  stout 

muslin,  large  enough  to  contain  each  enough  sausage  for  a  family  dish.    Fill 

these  with  the  meat,  vlip  in  melted  lard,  and  hang  them  in  a  cool,  dry  dark  place. 

Some  prefer  to  pack  the  meat  in  jars,  pouring  melted  lard  over  it,  covering  the 

top,  to  be  taken  out  as  wanted  and  made  into   small  round  cakes  with  the 

hands,  then   fried  brown.    Many  like  spices  added  to  the  seasoning— cloves, 

mace  and  nutmeg.    This  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

— Marion  Harland. 

TO  FRY  SAUSAGES. 

Put  a  small  piece  of  lard  or  butter  into  the  frying-pan.  Prick  the  sausages 
with  a  fork,  lay  them  in  the  melted  grease,  keep  moving  them  about,  turning 
them  frequently  to  prevent  bursting;  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes  they  will  be 
sufficiently  browned  and  cooked.  Another  sure  way  to  prevent  the  cases  from 
bursting  is  to  cover  them  with  cold  water  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  turn 


136  MEATS. 

off  the  water  and  fry  them.  Sausages  are  nicely  cooked  by  putting  them  in  a 
baking-pan  and  browning  them  in  the  oven,  turning  them  once  or  twice.  In 
this  way  you  avoid  all  smoke  and  disagreeable  odor.  A  pound  will  cook  brown 
in  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

HEAD  CHEESE. 

Boil  the  forehead,  ears  and  feet,  and  nice  scraps  trinmied  from  the  hains  of  a 
fresh  pig,  until  the  meat  will  almost  drop  from  the  bones.  Then  separate  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  put  it  in  a  large  chopping-bowl,  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  sage  and  summer  savory.  Chop  it  rather  coarsely;  put  it  back  into  the 
same  kettle  it  was  boiled  in,  with  just  enough  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled 
to  prevent  its  burning;  warm  it  through  thoroughly,  mixing  it  well  together. 
Now  pour  it  into  a  strong  muslin  bag,  press  the  bag  between  two  flat  surfaces, 
with  a  heavy  weight  on  top;  when  cold  and  solid  it  can  be  cut  in  slices.  Good 
cold,  or  warmed  up  in  vinegar. 

TO  CURE  HAMS  AND  BACON.    (A  Prize  Recipe.) 

For  each  hundred  x>ound8  of  hams,  make  a  pickle  of  ten  pounds  of  salt,  two 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  ounced  of  saltpetre,  and  one  ounce  of  red  pepper, 
and  from  four  to  four  and  a  half  gallons  of  water,  or  just  enough  to  cover  the 
hams,  after  being  packed  in  a  water-tight  vessel,  or  enough  salt  to  make  a  brine 
to  float  a  fresh  egg  high  enough,  that  is  to  say,  out  of  water.  First  rub  the 
hams  with  conunon  salt,  and  lay  them  into  a  tub.  Take  the  above  ingredients, 
put  them  into  a  vessel  over  the  flre,  and  heat  it  hot,  stirring  it  frequently; 
remove  all  the  scum,  allow  it  to  boil  ten  minutes,  let  it  cool  and  pour  over  the 
meat.  After  laying  in  this  brine  five  or  six  weeks,  take  out,  drain  and  wipe, 
and  smoke  from  two  to  three  weeks.  Small  pieces  of  bacon  may  remain  in 
this  pickle  two  weeks,  which  would  be  sufficient. 

TO  SMOKE  HAMS  AND  FISH  AT  HOME. 

Take  an  old  hogshead,  stop  up  all  the  crevices,  and  fix  a  place  to  put  a  cross- 
stick  near  the  bottom,  to  hang  the  articles  to  be  smoked  on.  Next,  in  the  side, 
cut  a  hole  near  the  top,  to  introduce  an  iron  pan  filled  with  hickory  wood  sawdust 
and  small  pieces  of  green  wood.  Having  turned  the  hoshead  upside  down,  hang 
the  articles  ux)on  the  cross-stick,  introduce  the  iron  pan  in  the  opening,  and  place 
a  piece  of  red-hot  iron  in  the  pan,  cover  it  with  sawdust,  and  all  will  be  complete. 
Let  a  large  ham  remain  ten  days,  and  keep  up  a  good  smoke.  The  best  way 
for  keeping  hams  is  to  sew  them  in  coarse  cloths,  whitewashed  on  the  outside. 


MEATS.  137 

TO  CURE  ENGLISH  BACON. 

This  process  is  called  the  "  dry  cure,  ^'  and  is  considered  far  preferable  to  the 
New  England  or  Yankee  style  of  putting  prepared  brine  or  pickle  over  the  meat. 
First  the  hog  should  not  be  too  large  or  too  fat,  weighing  not  over  two  hundred 
pounds;  then  after  it  is  dressed  and  cooled  cut  it  up  into  proper  pieces;  allow  to 
every  hundred  pounds  a  mixture  of  four  quarts  of  common  salt,  one  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  saltpetre  and  four  pounds  of  sugar.  Rub  this  preparation  thoroughly 
over  and  into  each  piece,  then  place  them  into  a  tight  tub  or  suitable  cask;  there 
will  a  brine  form  of  itself,  from  the  juices  of  the  meat,  enough  at  least  to  baste 
it  with,  which  should  be  done  two  or  three  times  a  week;  turning  each  piece 
every  time. 

In  smoking  this  bacon,  the  sweetest  flavor  is  derived  from  black  birch  chips, 

but  if  these  are  not  to  be  had,  the  next  best  wood  is  hickory;  the  smoking  with 

corn-cobs  imparts  a  rank  flavor  to  this  bacon,  which  is  very  distasteful  to  English 

people  visiting  this .  country.    It  requires  three  weeks  or  a  month  to  smoke  this 

bacon  properly. 

— Berkshire  Recipe. 

TO  TRY  OUT  LARD. 

Skin  the  leaf  lard  carefully,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  kettle 
or  sauce-pan;  pour  in  a  cupful  of  water  to  prevent  burning;  set  it  over  the  fire 
where  it  will  melt  slowly.  Stir  it  frequently  and  let  it  simmer  until  nothing 
remains  but  brown  scraps.  Bemove  the  scraps  with  a  perforated  skimmer, 
throw  in  a  little  salt  to  settle  the  fat,  and,  when  cl^ar,  strain  through  a  coarse 
doth  into  jars.  Bemember  to  watch  it  constantly,  stirring  it  from  the  bottom 
until  the  salt  is  thrown  in  to  settle  it;  then  set  it  back  on  the  range  until  clear. 
If  it  scorches  it  gives  it  a  very  bad  flavor. 


it 


.*--•"     ..    •  '':■ 


g),  ^(^^r^  . ^^^  .CsgXaeX?)^      ^g)^. 


^^ % 

DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Melted  butter  is  the  foundation  of  most  of  the  common  sauces.  Have  a 
covered  sauce-pan  for  this  purpose.  One  hned  with  porcelain  will  be  best.  Take 
n  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh  butter,  cut  it  up,  and  mix  with  it  about 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  it  is  thoroughly  mixed,  put  it  into  the  sauce- 
pan^ and  add  to  it  half  a  teacupful  of  hot  water.  Cover  the  sauce-pan  and  set  it 
in  a  large  tin  pan  of  boiling  water.  Shake  it  round  continually  (always  moving 
it  the  same  way)  till  it  is  entirely  melted  and  begins  to  simmer.  Then  let  it  rest 
till  it  boils  up. 

If  you  set  it  on  too  hot  a  fire,  it  will  be  oily. 

If  the  butter  and  flom*  are  not  weU  mixed,  it  will  be  lumpy. 

If  you  put  too  much  water,  it  will  be  thin  and  poor.  AU  these  defects  are  to 
be  carefully  avoided. 

In  melting  butter  for  sweet  or  pudding  sauce,  you  may  use  milk  instead  of 
water. 

EGG  SAUCE,  OR  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  with  half  a  teacup  of  warm  butter. 
Place  over  the  fire  a  sauce-pan  containing  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  a  salt-spoon 
of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper;  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  the 
butter  and  flour,  stirring  briskly  until  it  thickens  and  becomes  like  cream.  Have 
ready  three  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  and  chopped,  add  them  to  the  sauce; 
let  them  heat  through  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  If  you  have  plenty  of 
cream,  use  it  and  omit  the  butter.  By  omitting  the  eggs,  you  have  the  same  as 
"White  Sauce." 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Take  a  pint  of  oysters  and  heat  them  in  their  own  liquor  long  enough  to 
come  to  a  boil,  or  until  they  begin  to  ruffle.    Skim  out  the  oysters  into  a  warm 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  1 39 

dish,  put  into  the  liquor  a  teacup  of  milk  or  cream,  two  tablespooiifuls  of  cold 
butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred 
to  a  paste,  boil  up  and  then  add  the  oysters. 

Oyster  sauce  is  used  for  fish,  boiled  turkey  chickens  and  boiled  white  meats 
of  most  kinds. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Put  the  coral  and  spawn  of  a  boiled  lobster  into  a  mortar,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  pound  it  to  a  smooth  mass,  then  rub  it  through  a  sieve;  melt  nearly  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  with  a  wineglass  of  water  or  vinegar;  add 
a  teaspoonfal  of  made  mustard,  stir  in  the  coral  and  spawn,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  it  until  it  is  smooth,  and  serve.  Some  of  the  meat  of  the  lobster 
may  be  chopped  fine,  and  stirred  into  it. 

SAUCE  FOR  SALMON  AND  OTHER  FISH. 

One  cupful  of  rt\K^  heated  to  a  boil  and  thickened  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
corn-starch  previously  wet  up  with  cold  water,  the  liquor  from  the  salmon,  one 
great  spoonful  of  butter,  one  raw  egg  beaten  hght,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
mace  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Add  the  egg  to  thickened  milk  when  you 
have  stirred  in  the  butter  and  liquor;  take  from  the  fire,  season  and  let  it  stand 
in  hot  water  three  minutes,  covered.  Lastly  put  in  lemon  juice  and  turn  out 
immediately.    Pour  it  all  over  and  around  the  salmon. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  COD. 

To  one  gill  of  boiling  water  add  as  much  milk;  stir  into  this  while  boiling 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  gradually,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  up  with 
cold  water;  as  it  thickens,  the  chopped  yolk  of  one  boiled  egg,  and  one  raw  egg 
beaten  hght.  Take  directly  from  the  fire,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  set  covered  in  boiling  water 
(but  not  over  fire)  five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Pour  part  of  the  sauce 
over  fish  when  dished;  the  rest  in  a  boat.    Serve  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 

FISH  SAUCE.    No.  2. 

Make  a  pint  of  drawn  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  pepper  sauce  or  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  a  little  salt  and  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Pour  over 
boiled  fish  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon.    Very  nice. 

FISH  SAUCE.    No.  3. 
Half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  tomato  catsup,  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard.    Boil  ten  minutes. 


1 40  SA  UCES  A  ND  DRESSINGS. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 
Mjy  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  half  a  teacupful  of  butter;  have  ready 
a  pint  of  boiling  milk-;  stir  the  flour  and  butter  into  the  milk;  take  three  heads 
of  celery,  cut  into  small  bits,  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes  in  water,  which  strain 
off;  put  the  celery  into  the  melted  butter,  and  keep  it  stirred  over  the  fire  for 
five  or  ten  minutes.  This  is  very  liice  with  boiled  fowl  or  turkey.  Another 
way  to  make  celery  sauce  is:  Boil  a  head  of  celery  until  c^uite  tender,  then  put 
it  through  a  sieve;  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  basin,  and  beat  it  well  with  the 
strained  juice  of  a  lemon;  add  the  celery  and  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  liquor  in 
which  the  turkey  was  boiled;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

Chop  the  capers  a  very  little,  unless  quite  small;  make  half  a  pint  of  drawn 
butter,  to  which  add  the  capers,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  the  juice  from  the 
bottle  in  which  they  are  sold;  let  it  just  simmer,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  Nastur- 
tiums much  resemble  capers  in  taste,  though  larger,  and  may  be  used,  and,  in 
fact,  are  preferred  by  many.  They  are  grown  on  a  climbing  vine,  and  are  culti- 
vated for  their  blossom  and  for  pickling.  When  used  as  capers  they  should  be 
chopped  more.  If  neither  capers  nor  nasturtiums  are  at  hand,  some  pickles  chop- 
ped up  form  a  very  good  substitute  in  the  sauce. 

BREAD  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  one  onion,  two  ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  mace.  Cut  the  onion  fine,  and  boil  it  in  milk  till  quite  soft;  then 
strain  the  milk  on  to  the  stale  bread-crumbs,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour.  Put  it 
in  a  sauce-pan  with  the  boiled  onion,  pepper,  salt  and  mace.  Give  it  a  boil,  and 
serve  in  sauce  tureen.  This  sauce  can  also  be  used  for  grouse,  and  is  very  nice. 
Eoast  i>artridges  are  nice  served  with  bread-crumbs,  fried  brown  in  butter,  with 
cranberry  or  currant  jelly  laid  beside  them  in  the  platter. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Take  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan,  put  in  one 
aUce  of  onion,  and  two  cloves,  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  boil  about  twenty  minutes; 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve.  Now  melt  in  another 
pan  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  as  it  melts,  sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  stir 
it  until  it  browns  and  froths  a  little.  Mix  the  tomato  pulp  with  it,  and  it  is 
ready  for  the  table. 

Excellent  for  mutton  chops,  roast  beef,  etc. 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  1 4 1 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Work  together  until  light  a  heaping  tablespoonf ul  of  flour,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  butter,  and  gradually  add  two  cups  of  boiling  milk;  stir  constantly  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil;  then  stir  into  that  four  tender  boiled  onions  that  have  been 
chopped  fine.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste*  Serve  with  boiled  veal,  poultry  or 
mutton. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Boil  together  two  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  three  small  green  peppers,  or  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  onion  cut  fine,  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil 
until  thick;  then  add  two  cups  of  vinegar;  then  strain  the  whole,  set  back  on  the 
fire  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  allspice, 
cloves  and  cinnamon;  boil  all  five  minutes,  remove  and  seal  in  glass  bottles. 
This  is  very  nice. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Take  fresh  young  spearmint  leaves,  stripped  from  the  stems;  wash  and  drain, 
them,  or  dry  on  a  cloth.  Chop  very  fine,  put  in  a  gravy  boat,  and  to  three^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  mint  put  two  of  white  sugar;  mix  and  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  over  it  six  tablespoonfuls  of  good  cider  or  white- wine  vinegar. 
The  sauce  should  be  made  some  time  before  it  is  to  be  used,  so  that  the  flavor  of 
the  mint  may  be  well  extracted.    Fine  with  roast  lamb. 

SHARP  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Put  in  a  sauce-pan  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  three  tablespoonfals 
of  good  cider  vinegar,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  three  of  tomato  catsup,  a  little 
pepi)er  and  salt,  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  in  which  stir  a  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour;  put  all  together  and  boil  until  it  thickens.  This  is  most  excellent 
with  boiled  meats,  fish  and  poultry. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  ten  pepper-corns,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  beat  all  well  together;  then  add  to  this,  three  slices  of  onion,  two  slices  of 
carrot,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  of  thyme,  a  bay  leaf  and  half  a  dozen  mush- 
rooms cut  up.  Moisten  the  whole  with  a  pint  of  stock  or  water  and  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream.  Set  it  on  the  stove  and  cook  slowly  for  half  of  an  hour,  watching 
closely  that  it  does  not  bum;  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  Most  excellent  with 
roast  veal,  meats  and  fish.  —St.  CharUa  Hotel,  New  Orleans. 


1 42  SA  UCES  AND  DJ^ESSINGS. 

MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE. 

Make  a  teacupful  of  drawn  butter;  add  to  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  onion,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  thyme  or  smnmer  savory,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt.  Simmer 
over  the  fire,  and  stir  weU.    Excellent  with  all  kinds  of  fish. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 

Half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly,  half  a  glass  of  port  wine,  half  a  glass  of  water^ 
a  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon^ 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  three  doves.  Simmer  aU  together  a  few  minutes, 
adding  the  wine  after  it  is  strained.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  the  gravy  from  the 
game  may  be  added  to  it.    This  sauce  is  especially  nice  with  venison. 

— Tabor  House,  Denver. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

Half  a  teacupful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  the  yolk  of  two  eggs,  a 
speck  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  one  by  one;  then  the  lemon- 
juice,  pepper  and  salt,  beating  all  thoroughly;  place  the  bowl  in  which  is  the 
mixture  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water;  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  it  begins 
to  thicken  which  will  be  in  about  a  minute;  then  add  the  boiling  water,  beating  all 
the  time;  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  Uke  soft  custard;  stir  a  few  minutes  after 
taking  from  the  fire;  be  careful  not  to  cook  it  too  long.    This  is  very  nice  with 

baked  fish. 

— Miee  Parloa. 

CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  celery, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  of  currant  jelly,  one  tablespoonful 
of  fiour,  one  pint  of  stock,  salt,  pepper.  Cook  the  butter  and  onion  until  the 
latter  begins  to  color.  Add  the  floiu*  and  herbs.  Stir  until  brown;  add  the 
stock,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain,  and  skim  off  all  the  fat.  Add  the 
jelly,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  is  melted.    Serve  with  game. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Delicious  sauce  for  meats  is  made  in  this  way:  Slice  a  large  onion,  and  fry  in 
butter  till  it  is  brown;  then  cover  the  onion  with  rich  brown  gravy,  which  is  left 
from  roast  beef;  add  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  you  choose  a  tablespoonful 
of  Worcestershire  sauce;  let  this  boil  up,  and  if  too  thick,  thin  it  with  a  little 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  1 43 

stock  or  gravy,  or  even  a  little  hot  water  with  butter.  Pour  this  when  done 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Of  course  a  larger  quantity  can  be  prepared  at  once  than 
is  mentioned  here. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Wash  a  pint  of  small  button  mushrooms,  remove  the  stems  and  outside  skins, 
stew  them  slowly  in  veal  gravy  or  milk  or  cream,  adding  an  onion,  and  season- 
ing with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Their  flavor  will  be 
heightened  by  salting  a  few  the  night  before,  to  extract  the  juice.  In  dressing 
mushrooms,  only  those  of  a  dull  pearl  color  on  the  outside  and  the  under  part 
tinged  with  pale  pink  should  be  selected.  If  there  is  a  poisonous  one  among 
them,  the  onion  in  the  sauce  will  turn  black.  In  such  a  case  throw  the  whole 
away.    Used  for  poultry,  beef  or  flsh. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

When  you  wish  to  serve  apple  sauce  with  meat  prepare  it  in  this  way:  Cook 
the  apples  until  they  are  very  tender,  then  stir  them  thoroughly  so  there  will  be 
no  lumps  at  all;  add  the  sugar  and  a  little  gelatine  dissolved  in  warm  water,  a 
tablespoonful  in  a  pint  of  sauce;  pour  the  sauce  into  bowls,  and  when  cold  it  will 
be  stiff  like  jelly,  and  can  be  turned  out  on  a  plate.  Cranberry  sauce  can  be 
treated  in  the  same  way.    Many  prefer  this  to  plain  stewing. 

Apples  cooked  in  the  following  way  look  very  pretty  on  a  tea-table,  and  are 
appreciated  by  the  palate.  Select  firm,  round  greenings;  pare  neatly  and  cut  in 
halves;  place  in  a  shallow  stew-pan  with  sufiicient  boiling  water  to  cover  them, 
and  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  six  apples.  Each  half  should  cook  on  the  bottom 
of  the  pan,  and  be  removed  from  the  others  so  as  not  to  injure  its  shape.  Stew 
slowly  imtil  the  pieces  are  very  tender;  remove  to  a  dish  carefully;  boil  the 
syrup  half  an  hour  longer;  pour  it  over  the  apples  and  eat  cold.  A  few  pieces 
of  lemon  boiled  in  the  syrup  adds  to  the  flavor.  These  sauces  are  a  flne  accom- 
paniment to  roast  pork  or  roast  goose. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Boil  four  quarts  of  new  cider  xuitil  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts,  then  put  into 
it  enough  pared  and  quartered  apples  to  fill  the  kettle;  let  the  whole  stew  over  a 
moderate  fire  four  hours;  add  cinnamon  if  liked.  This  sauce  is  very  fine  with 
almost  any  kind  of  meat. 

OLD-FASHIONED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare  and  chop  a  dozen  medium-sized  apples,  put  them  in  a  deep  pudding-dish; 
sprinkle  over  them  a  heaping  coffee-cupful  of  sugar  and  one  of  water.    Place 


1 44  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

them  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  two  hours  or  more,  or  until  they  are  a  deep 
red  brown;  quite  as  nice  as  preserves. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

One  quart  of  cranberries,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water.  Wash 
the  cranberries,  then  put  them  on  the  fire  with  the  water,  but  in  a  covered  sauce- 
pan. Let  them  simmer  until  each  cranberry  bursts  open;  then  remove  the  cover 
of  the  sauce-pan,  add  the  sugar  and  let  them  all  boil  for  twenty  minutes  without 
the  cover.  The  cranberries  must  never  be  stirred  from  the  time  they  are  placed 
on  the  fire.  This  is  an  unfailing  recipe  for  a  most  deUdous  preparation  of  cran- 
berries.   Very  fine  with  turkey  and  game. 

APPLE  OMELET. 

Apple  omelet,  to  be  served  with  broiled  spare-rib  or  roast  pork,  is  very  deli- 
cate. Take  nine  large,  tart  apples,  four  ^gs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter;  add  cinnamon  or  other  spices  to  suit  your  taste;  stew  the  apples 
iall  they  are  very  soft;  mash  them  so  that  there  will  be  no  lumps;  add  the  butter 
and  sugar  while  they  are  still  warm;  but  let  them  cool  before  putting  in  the 
beaten  %gs;  bake  this  till  it  is  brown;  you  may  put  it  all  in  a  shallow  pudding- 
dish  or  in  two  tin  plates  to  bake.    Very  good. 

FLAVORED  VINEGARS. 

Almost  all  the  flavorings  used  for  meats  and  salads  may  be  prepared  in 
vinegar  with  little  trouble  and  expense,  and  will  be  found  useful  to  impart  an 
add  to  flavors  when  lemons  are  not  at  hand. 

Tarragon,  sweet  basil,  bumet,  green  mint,  sage,  thyme,  sweet-marjoram, 
etc.,  may  be  prepared  by  putting  three  ounces  of  either  of  these  herbs,  when  in 
blossom,  into  one  gallon  of  sharp  vinegar;  let  stand  ten  days,  strain  off  dear,  and 
bottle  for  use. 

Cdery  and  cayenne  maybe  prepared,  using  three  ounces  of  the  seed  as  above. 

CUCUMBER  VINEGAR. 

Ingredients. — ^Ten  large  cucumbers,  or  twelve  smaller  ones,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  two  onions,  two  shalots,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfols 
of  pepper,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cayenne. 

Mode. — Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers,  put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  or  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  with  the  vinegar;  slice  the  onions  and  shalots,  and  add  them, 
with  all  the  other  ingredients,  to  the  cucumbers.  Let  it  stand  four  or  five  days; 
boil  it  all  up,  and  when  cold,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  piece  of  muslin,  and 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  145 

store  it  away  in  small  bottles  well  sealed.  This  vinegar  is  a  very  nice  addition  to 
gravies,  hashes,  etc.,  as  well  as  a  great  improvement  to  salads,  or  to  eat  with, 
cold  meat. 

CURRY  POWDER. 

To  make  curry  powder,  take  one  omice  of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  mustard,  one 
ounce  of  pepper,  three  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  three  ounces  of  turmeric,  half 
an  oimce  of  cardamoms,  one-quarter  omice  of  cayenne  pepper,  one-quarter  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  and  one-quarter  ounce  of  cummin  seed.  Pound  all  these  ingre- 
•dients  very  fine  in  a  mortar;  sift  them  and  cork  tight  in  a  bottle. 

This  can  be  had  already  prepared  afc  most  druggists,  and  it  is  much  less 
trouble  to  purchase  it  than  to  make  it  at  home. 

CURRY  SAUCE, 

One  tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
one  large  slice  of  onion,  one  large  cupful  of  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut 
the  onion  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  the  butter.  Add  the  flour  and  curry  powder. 
Stir  for  one  minute,  add  the  stock  and  season  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer 
five  minutes;  then  strain  and  serve.  This  sauce  can  be  served  with  a  broil  or 
^auU  of  meat  or  fish. 

TO  BROWN  BUTTER. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  toss  it  about  until  it  browns. 
€tir  brown  fiour  into  it  until  it  is  smooth  and  begins  to  boil.  Use  it  for  coloring 
gravies,  and  sauces  for  meats. 

TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 

Spread  flour  upon  a  tin  pie-plate,  set  it  upon  the  stove  or  in  a  very  hot  oven, 
and  stir  continually  after  it  begins  to  color,  until  it  is  brown  all  through. 

Keep  it  always  on  hand;  put  away  in  glass  jars  covered  closely.  It  is  excel- 
lent for  coloring  and  thickening  many  dishes. 

TO  MAKE  MUSTARD. 

Boil  some  vinegar;  take  four  spoonfuls  of  mustard,  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  mix  well. 

FRENCH  R5USTARD. 

Three  tablespoonf uls  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  granulated  sugar,  well 
worked  together,  then  beat  in  an  egg  until  it  is  smooth;  add  one  teacupful  of 
vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time,  working  it  all  smooth;  then  set  on  the  stove  and  cook 

10 


146  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

three  or  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  cool,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
the  beet  oKve  oil,  taking  care  to  get  it  all  thoroughly  worked  in  and  smooth. 

Tou  will  find  this  very  nice. 

—Mr8.  D.  Riegd. 

KITCHEN  PEPPER. 

Mix  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger^  half  an  ounce  each  of  black  pepper,  ground 

cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  and  six 

ounces  of  salt.    Keep  in  a  tightly  corked  bottle. 

—The  Caterer. 

PREPARED  COCOANUT.  (For  Pies,  Puddings,  &c.) 

To  prepare  cocoanut  for  future  use;  first  cut  a  hole  through  the  meat  at  one 
of  the  holes  in  the  end,  draw  off  the  milk,  tben  loosen  the  meat  by  pounding  the 
nut  well  on  all  sides.  Crack  the  nut  and  take  out  the  meat,  and  place  the  pieces 
of  meat  in  a  cool  open  oven  over  night,  or  for  a  few  hours,  to  dry;  then  grate  it. 
If  there  is  more  grated  than  is  needed  for  present  use,  sprinkle  it  with  sugar, 
and  spread  out  in  a  cool  dry  place.  When  dry  enough  put  away  in  dry  cans  or 
bottles.    WiU  keep  for  weeks. 


Ginger  is  the  root  of  a  shrub  first  known  in  Asia,  and  now  cultivated  in  the 
West  Indies  and  Sierra  Leone.  The  stem  grows  three  or  four  feet  high,  and 
dies  every  year.  There  are  two  varieties  of  ginger— the  white  and  black — 
caused  by  taking  more  or  less  care  in  selecting  and  preparing  the  roots,  which 
are  always  dug  in  winter,  when  the  stems  are  withered.    The  white  is  the  best. 

Cinnamon  is  the  inner  bark  of  a  beautiful  tree,  a  native  of  Ceylon,  that  grows 
from  twenty  to  thirty  feet  in  height  and  hves  to  be  centuries  old. 

Cloves. — Native  to  the  Molucca  Islands,  and  so  called  from  resemblance  to 
a  nail  (clavis).  The  East  Indians  call  them  ^'  changkek,"  from  the  Chinese  ^^  te- 
chengkia''  (fragrant  nails).  They  grow  on  a  strait,  smooth-barked  tree,  about 
forty  feet  high.  Cloves  are  not  fruits,  but  blossoms,  gathered  before  they  are 
quite  unfolded. 

Allspice. — A  berry  so  called  because  it  combines  the  flavor  of  several  spices 
— grows  abundantiy  on  the  allspice  or  bayberry  tree;  native  of  South  America 
and  the  West  Indies.  A  single  tree  has  been  known  to  produce  one  hundred 
and  fifty  pounds  of  berries.    They  are  purple  when  ripe. 

Black  pepper  is  made  by  grinding  the  dried  berry  of  a  dimbing  vine,  native 
to  the  East  Indies.    White  pepper  is  obtained  from  the  same  berries,  freed  from 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  147 

their  husk  or  rind.  Bed  or  cayenne  pepper  is  obtained  by  grinding  the  scarlet  pod 
or  seed-vessel  of  a  tropical  plant  that  is  now  cultivated  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 
Nutmeg  is  the  kernel  of  a  small,  smooth,  pear-shaped  fruit  that  grows  on  a 
tree  in  the  Molucca  Islands,  and  other  parts  of  the  East.  The  trees  commence 
bearing  in  the  seventh  year,  and  continue  fruitful  until  they  are  seventy  or 
eighty  years  old.  Around  the  nutmeg  or  kernel  is  a  bright,  brown  shell.  This 
shell  has  a  soft  scarlet  covering,  which,  when  flattened  out  and  dried,  is  known 
as  mace.    The  best  nutmegs  are  sohd,  and  emit  oil  when  pricked  with  a  pin. 

HERBS  FOR  WINTER. 

To  prepare  herbs  for  winter  use,  such  as  sage,  summer  savory,  thyme,  mint 
or  any  of  the  sweet  herbs,  they  should  be  gathered  fresh  in  their  season,  or 
procure  them  from  the  market.  Examine  them  well,  throwing  out  all  poor 
sprigs;  then  wash  and  shake  them;  tie  into  small  bundles,  and  tie  over  the 
bundles  a  piece  of  netting  or  old  lace,  (to  keep  off  the  dust);  hang  up  in  a  warm, 
dry  place,  the  leaves  downward.  In  a  few  days  the  herb  will  be  thoroughly  diy 
and  brittle.  Or  you  may  place  them  in  a  cool  oven,  and  let  them  remain  in  it 
until  perfectly  dry.  Then  pick  off  all  the  leaves,  and  the  tender  tops  of  the 
stems;  put  them  in  a  dean,  large-mouthed  bottle  that  is  perfectly  dry.  When 
wanted  for  use,  rub  fine,  and  sift  through  a  sieve.  It  is  much  better  to  put 
them  in  bottles  as  soon  as  dried,  as  long  exposure  to  the  air  causes  them  to  lose 
strength  and  flavor. 

MEATS  AND  THEIR  ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With  roast  beef:  tomato  sauce,  grated  horse-radish,  mustard,  cranberry  sauce, 

pickles. 
With  roast  pork:  apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce. 
With  roast  veal:  tomato  sauce,  mushroom  sauce,  onion  sauce  and  cranberry 

sauce.    Horse-radish  and  lemons  are  good. 
With  roast  mutton:  currant  jelly,  caper  sauce. 
With  boiled  mutton:  onion  sauce,  caper  sauce. 
With  boiled  fowls:  bread  sauce,  onion  sauce,  lemon  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  jeUiea- 

Also  cream  sauce. 
With  roast  lamb:  mint  sauce. 
With  roast  turkey:  cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly. 
With  boiled  turkey :  oyster  sauce. 
With  venison  or  wild  ducks:  cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly,  or  currant  jelly 

warmed  with  port  wine. 


148  •      SAVCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

With  roast  goose:  apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  grape  or  currant  jelly. 
With  boiled  fresh  mackerel:  stewed  gooseberries. 
With  boiled  blue  fish:  white  cream  sauce,  lemon  sauce. 
With  broiled  shad:  mushroom  sauce,  parsley  or  egg  sauce. 
With  fresh  salmon:  green  peas,  cream  sauce. 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  roast  meats,  and  in  fact  are  suitable  accompaniments 
to  all  kinds  of  meats  in  general 

Spinach  is  the  proper  accompaniment  to  veal;  green  peas  to  lamb. 

Lemon  juice  makes  a  very  grateful  addition  to  nearly  all  the  insipid  members 
of  the  fish  kingdom.  Slices  of  lemon  cut  into  very  small  dice  and  stirred  into 
drawn  butter  and  allowed  to  come  to  the  boiling  point,  served  with  fowls,  is  a 
fine  accompaniment. 

VEGETABLES  APPROPRIATE  TO  DIFFERENT  DISHES. 

Potatoes  are  good  with  all  meats.  With  fowls  they  are  nicest  maahed. 
Sweet  potatoes  are  most  appropriate  with  roast  meats,  as  also  are  onions,  winter 
squash,  cucumbers  and  asparagus. 

Carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  greens  and  cabbage  are  generally  eaten  with 
boiled  meat,  and  com,  beets,  peas  and  beans  are  appropriate  to  either  boiled  or 
roasted  meat.  Mashed  turnip  is  good  with  roast  pork  and  with  boiled  meats. 
Tomatoes  are  good  with  almost  every  kind  of  meats,  especially  with  roasts. 

WARM  DISHES  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

The  following  of  hot  breakfast  dishes  may  be  of  assistance  in  knowing  what 
to  provide  for  the  comfortable  meal  called  breakfast. 

Broiled  beef  steak,  broiled  chops,  broiled  chicken,  broiled  fish,  broiled  quail 
on  toast,  fried  pork  tenderloins,  fried  pig's  feet,  fried  oysters,  fried  dams,  fried 
liver  and  bacon,  fried  chops,  fried  pork,  ham  and  eggs  fried,  veal  cutlets  breaded, 
sausages,  fricasseed  tripe,  fricasseed  kidneys,  turkey  or  chicken  hash,  com  beef 
hash,  beef  croquettes,  codfish  balls,  creamed  codfish,  stewed  meats  on  toast, 
poached  eggs  on  toast,  omelettes,  eggs  boiled  plain,  and  eggs  cooked  in  any  of 
the  various  styles. 

VEGETABLES  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Potatoes  in  any  of  the  various  modes  of  cooking,  also  stewed  tomatoes,  stew- 
ed com,  raw-radishes,  cucumbers  sUced,  tomatoes  sliced  raw,  water  cress,  lettuce. 

To  be  included  with  the  breakfast  dishes:  oatmeal  mush,  cracked  wheat, 
hominy  or  corn-meal  mush,  these  with  cream,  Tm'llr  and  sugar  or  syrup. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS.  149 

Then  numberless  varieties  of  bread  can  be  selected,  in  form  of  roUs,  fritters, 
mnffins,  waflles,  corn-cakes,  griddle-cakes,  etc.,  etc. 

For  beverages,  coffee,  chocolate  and  cocoa,  or  tea  if  one  prefers  it;  these  are 
■all  suitable  for  the  breakfast  table. 

When  obtainable  always  have  a  vase  of  choice  flowers  on  the  breakfast  ta- 
ble; also  some  fresh  fruit,  if  convenient. 


Salabs. 

Everything  in  the  make-up  of  a  salad  should  be  of  the  freshest  material,  the 
vegetables  crisp  and  fresh,  the  oil  or  butter  the  very  best,  meats,  fowl  and  fish 
well  cooked,  pure  dder  or  white-wine  vinegar — in  fact,  every  ingredient  first- 
dass,  to  insure  success. 

The  vegetables  used  in  salad  are:  Beet-root,  onions,  potatoes,  cabbage,  lettuce, 
celery,  cucumbers,  lentils,  haricots,  winter  cress,  peas,  French  beans,  radish, 
-cauliflower, — ^all  these  may  be  used  judiciously  in  salad,  if  properly  seasoned, 
.according  to  the  following  directions: 

Chervil  is  a  delicious  salad  herb,  invariably  found  in  all  salads  prepared  by  a 
French  gourmet.  No  man  can  be  a  true  epicure  who  is  unfamiliar  with  this 
excellent  herb.  It  may  be  procured  from  the  vegetable  stands  at  Fulton  and 
Washington  markets  the  year  round.  Its  leaves  resemble  parsley,  but  are  more 
-divided,  and  a  few  of  them  added  to  a  breakfast  salad  give  a  delightful  flavor. 

Chervil  vinegar. — ^A  few  drops  of  this  vinegar  added  to  fish  sauces  or  salads 
IS  excellent,  and  well  repays  the  Uttle  trouble  taken  in  its  preparation.  Half  fill 
a  bottle  with  fresh  or  dry  chervil  leaves;  fill  the  bottle  with  good  vinegar  and 
lieat  it  gently  by  placing  it  in  warm  water,  which  bring  to  boiling  point;  remove 
from  the  fire;  when  cool  cork,  and  in  two  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Put  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  raw  eggs,  with  two  hard-boiled  ones,  into  a  cold 
TjowL  Rub  these  as  smoooth  as  possible  before  introducing  the  oil;  a  good 
measure  of  oil  is  a  tablespoonful  to  each  yolk  of  raw  egg.  All  the  art  consists 
in  introducing  the  oil  by  degrees,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  You  can  never  make 
a  good  salad  without  taking  plenty  of  time.  When  the  oil  is  well  mixed,  and 
assumes  the  appearance  of  jeUy,  put  in  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  table 
salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  one  of  made  mustard.    Never  put  in  salt  and  pepper 


1 50  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS. 

before  this  stage  of  the  process,  because  the  salt  and  pepper  would  coagulate  the 
albumen  of  the  eggs,  and  you  could  not  get  the  dressing  smooth.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  added  gradually. 

Tlie  Mayonnaise  should  be  the  thickness  of  thick  cream  when  finished,  but  if 
it  looks  like  curdling  when  mixing  it,  set  in  the  ice-box  or  in  a  cold  place  for 
about  forty  minutes  or  an  hour,  then  mix  it  again.  It  is  a  goodidea  to  place  it  in. 
a  pan  of  cracked  ice  while  mixing. 

For  lobster  salad,  use  the  corals  mashed  and  pressed  through  a  sieve,  thea 
add  to  the  above. 

Salad  dressing  should  be  kept  in  a  separate  bowl  in  a  cold  place,  and  not 
mixed  with  the  salad  until  the  moment  it  is  to  be  served,  or  it  may  lose  it& 
crispness  and  freshness. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW.    (Cabbage  Salad.) 

Beat  up  two  eggs,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  add  a  piece  of  butter  th& 
size  of  half  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper,  and  lastly  a  teacup 
of  vinegar.  Put  all  these  ingredients  into  a  dish  over  the  fire,  and  cook  like  a 
soft  custard.  Some  think  it  improved  by  adding  half  a  cupful  of  thick  sweefc 
cream  to  this  dressing;  in  that  case  use  less  vinegar.    Either  way  is  very  fine. 

SALAD  CREAM  DRESSING.    No.  x. 

One  cup  fresh  cream,  one  spoonful  fine  fiour,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten, 
stiff,  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  sx>oonfuls  of  salad  oil  or  soft  butter,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  half  teaspoonful  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Heat  cream  almost  to  boiling;  stir  in  the  flour, 
previously  wet  with  cold  milk;  boil  two  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  sugar 
and  take  from  fire.  When  half  cold,  beat  in  whipped  whites  of  ^g;  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  quite  cold,  whip  in  the  oil  or  butter,  pepper,  mustard  and  salt;, 
if  the  salad  is  ready,  add  vinegar,  and  pour  at  once  over  it. 

CREAM  DRESSING.    No.  2. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar,  and  four  of  vine- 
gar; beat  well  and  pour  over  the  cabbage,  previously  cut  very  fine  and  seasoned 
with  salt 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  one  saltspoon  of  pepper  with  one  of  salt;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil,  and  one  even  tablespoonful  of  onion,  scraped  fine;  then  one  tablespoon- 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS.  1 5 1 

f  ul  of  vinegar;  when  well  mixed,  pour  the  mixture  over  your  salad,  and  stir  all 
till  well  mingled. 

The  merit  of  a  salad  is  that  it  should  be  cool,  fresh  and  crisp.  For  vegetables, 
use  only  the  dehcate  white  stalks  of  celery,  the  small  heart-leaves  of  lettuce,  or 
tenderest  stalks  and  leaves  of  the  white  cabbage.  Keep  the  vegetable  portions 
crisp  and  fresh,  until  the  time  for  serving,  when  add  the  meat.  For  chicken 
and  fish  salads,  use  the  Mayonnaise  dressing.  For  simple  vegetable  salads,  the 
French  dressing  is  most  appropriate,  using  onion  rather  than  garlic. 

MIXED  SUMMER  SALAD. 

Three  heads  of  lettuce,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  green  mustard  leaves;  a  handful 
of  water-cresses;  five  tender  radishes;  one  cucumber;  three  hard-boiled  eggs;  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt;  one  teaspoonf ul  of  pepper; 
one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard;  one  teacupful  of  vinegar;  half  a  teacupful 
of  oil. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  serve  with  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  middle. 

— ^^Common  Sense  in  the  Household.** 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Boil  the  fowls  tender,  and  remove  all  the  fat,  gristle  and  skin;  mince  the 
meat  in  small  pieces,  but  do  not  hash  it.  To  one  chicken  put  twice  and  a  half 
its  weight  in  celery,  cut  in  pieces  of  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch;  mix  thor- 
oughly, and  set  it  in  a  cool  place, — ^the  ice  chest. 

In  the  meantime  prepare  a  "  Mayonnaise  dressing, ''  and  when  ready  for  the 
table  pour  this  dressing  over  the  chicken  and  celery,  tossing  and  mixing  it  thor- 
oughly. Set  it  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve.  Garnish  with  celery  tips,  or 
cold  hard-boiled  ^gs,  lettuce-leaves,  from  the  heart,  cold  boiled  beets  or  capers; 
olives. 

Crisp  cabbage  is  a  good  substitute  for  celery;  when  celery  is  not  to  be  had 
use  celery  vinegar  in  the  dressing.    Turkey  makes  a  fine  salad. 

LOBSTER  SALAD.    No.  i. 

Prepare  a  sauce  with  the  coral  of  a  fine,  new  lobster,  boiled  fresh  for  about 
half  an  hour.  Pound  and  rub  it  smooth,  and  mix  very  gradually  with  a  dress- 
ing made  from  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, three  of  salad  oil,  two  of  vinegar,  one  of  white  powdered  sugar,  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  as  much  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  two  fresh 
yolks  of  eggs.  Next  fill  your  salad  bowl  with  some  shred  lettuce,  the  better 
'  part  of  two,  leaving  the  small  curled  centre  to  garnish  your  dish  with.    Mingle 


1 


152  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS. 

with  this  the  flesh  of  your  lobster,  torn,  broken  or  cut  into  bits  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  smaU  portion  of  the  dressing.  Pour  over  the  whole  the 
rest  of  the  dressing;  put  your  lettuce-hearts  down  the  centre  and  arrange  upon, 
the^sides  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

LOBSTER  SALAD.     No.  2. 

Using  canned  lobsters,  take  a  can,  skiin  off  all  the  oil  on  the  surface,  and 
chop  the  meat  up  coarsely  on  a  flat  dish.  Prepare  the  same  way  six  heads  of 
celery;  mix  a  teaspoonf ul  of  mustard  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  vinegar; 
add  two  fresh  yolks  of  eggs;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  creamed,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper,  a  giU  of  vinegar,  and  the  mashed  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix  & 
small  portion  of  the  dressing  with  the  celery  and  meat,  and  turn  the  remainder 
over  all.  Garmsh  with  the  green  tops  of  celery,  and  a  hard -boiled  egg,  cut  into 
thin  rings. 

FISH  SALAD. 

Take  a  fresh  white  flsh  or  trout,  boil  and  chop  it,  but  not  too  flne;  put  with 
the  same  quantity  of  chopped  cabbage,  celery  or  lettuce;  season  the  same  as 
chicken  salad.    Garnish  with  the  tender  leaves  of  the  heart  of  lettuce. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  fresh  oysters.  Put  them  in  hot  vin^;ar 
enough  to  cover  them  placed  over  the  fire;  let  them  remain  until  plumpy  but  not 
cooked;  then  drop  them  immediately  in  cold  water,  drain  off,  and  mix  with 
them  two  pickled  cucumbers  cut  fine,  also  a  quart  of  celery  cut  in  dice  pieces^ 
some  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  well  together,  tossing  up  with  & 
silver  fork.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  ^^  Mayonnaise  dressing."  Garnish  with 
celery  tips  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  arranged  tastefully. 

DUTCH  SALAD. 

Wash,  split  and  bone  a  dozen  anchovies,  and  roll  each  one  up;  wash,  split- 
and  bone  one  herring,  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces;  cut  up  into  dice  an  equal 
quantity  of  Bologna  or  Lyons  sausage,  or  of  smoked  ham  and  sausages;  also, 
an  equal  quantity  of  the  breast  of  cold  roast  fowl,  or  veal;  add  likewise,  always 
in  the  same  quantity,  and  cut  into^dice,  beet-roots,  pickled  cucumbers,  cold  boiled 
potatoes  cut  in  larger  dice,  and  in  quantity  according  to  taste,  but  at  least  thiice 
as  much  potato  as  anything  else;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  separately,  and  a  dozen  stoned  olives; 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSIJSrGS— SALADS.  1 53 

mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  reserving  the  olives  and  anchovies  to  oma^ 
ment  the  top  of  the  bowl;  beat  up  together  oil  and  Tarragon  vinegar  with  white 
pepper  and  French  mustard  to  taste;  pour  this  over  the  salad  and  serve. 

HAM  SALAD. 

Take  cold  boiled  ham,  fat  and  lean  together,  chop  it  until  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed,  and  the  pieces  are  about  the  size  of  peas;  then  add  to  this  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  celery  cut  fine;  if  celery  is  out  of  season,  lettuce  may  be  substituted.. 
Line  a  dish  thickly  vdth  lettuce-leaves  and  fill  with  the  chopped  ham  and  celery. 
Make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  cold  slaw  and  turn  over  the  whole.  Very 
fine. 

CRAB  SALAD* 

Boil  three  dozen  hard-shell  crabs  twenty-five  minutes;  drain  and  let  them 
cool  gradually;  remove  the  upper  shell  and  the  tail,  break  the  remainder  apart 
and  pick  out  the  meat  carefully.  The  laige  claws  should  not  be  forgotten,  for 
they  contain  a  dainty  morsel,  and  the  creamy  fat  attached  to  the  upper  shell 
should  not  be  overlooked.  Line  a  salad-bowl  with  the  small  white  leaves  of  two 
heads  of  lettuce,  add  the  crab  meat,  pour  over  it  a  Mayonnaise  garnish  with 
crab  clavTs,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  little  mounds  of  cress-leaves,  which  may  be 
mixed  vnth  the  salad  when  served. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Select  the  finest  head  of  bleached  cabbage— that  is  to  say,  one  of  the  finest 
and  most  compact  of  the  more  delicate  varieties;  cut  up  enough  into  shreds  to 
fill  a  large  vegetable-dish  or  salad-bowl— that  to  be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the 
cabbage  and  the  quantity  required;  shave  very  fine,  and  after  that  chop  up,  the 
more  thoroughly  the  better.  Put  this  into  a  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served, 
after  seasoning  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  over  it  a  dressing  made  as- 
for  cold  slaw;  mix  it  well,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

PLAIN  COLD  SLAW. 

Slice  cabbage  very  fine;  season  vdth  salt,  pepper  and  a  httle  sugar;  pour 
over  vinegar  and  mix  thoroughly.  It  is  nice  served  in  the  centre  of  a  platter 
with  fried  oysters  around  it. 

HOT  SLAW. 

Cut  the  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  it  on  the  top 
of  the  stove  for  half  an  hour,  or  till  hot  all  through;  do  not  let  it  boil.  Then 
make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  cold  slaw,  and,  while  hot,  pour  it  over  the  hot. 


154  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS. 

cabbage.    Stir  it  until  well  mixed  and  the  cabbage  looks  coddled.    Serve  imme- 
diately. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  twelve  good,  somid,  fresh  tomatoes;  the  slices  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick.  Set  them  on  the  ice  or  in  a  refrigerator  while  you  make  the 
dressing.  Make  the  same  as  ^^ Mayonnaise,"  or  you  may  use  ^^  Cream  dress- 
ing.'* Take  one  head  of  the  broad-leaved  variety  of  lettuce,  wash,  and  arrange 
fhem  neatly  around  the  sides  of  a  salad  bowl.  Place  the  cold,  sUced  tomatoes  in 
the  centre.    Pour  over  the  dressing  and  serve. 

ENDIVE. 

This  ought  to  be  nicely  blanched  and  crisp,  and  is  the  most  wholesome  of  all 
salads.  Take  two,  cut  away  the  root,  remove  the  dark-green  leaves,  and  pick 
off  aU  the  rest;  wash  and  drain  well,  add  a  few  chives.  Dress  with  Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Endive  is  extensively  cultivated  for  the  adulteration  of  coffee;  is  also  a  fine 
relish,  and  has  broad  leaves.  Endive  is  of  the  same  nature  as  chiccory,  the 
leaves  being  curly. 

CELERY  SALAD. 

Prepare  the  dressing  the  same  as  for  tomato  salad;  cut  the  celery  into  bits 
half  an  inch  long,  and  season.  Serve  at  once  before  the  vinegar  injures  the 
crispness  of  the  v^etable. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  salt  and  mustard  to  taste; 
mash  it  fine;  make  a  paste  by  adding  a  dessertspoonful  of  ohve  oil  or  melted 
butter  (use  butter  always  when  it  is  difficult  to  get  fresh  oil);  mix  thoroughly, 
and  then  dilute  by  adding  gradtuilly  a  teacupf  ul  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the 
lettuce.  Oamish  by  slicing  another  egg  and  laying  over  the  lettuce.  This  is 
sufficient  for  a  moderate-sized  dish  of  lettuce. 

POTATO  SALAD,  HOT. 

Pare  six  or  eight  large  potatoes,  and  boil  till  done,  and  slice  thin  while  hot; 
peel  and  cut  up  three  large  onions,  into  small  bits  and  mix  with  the  potatoes; 
cut  up  some  breakfast  bacon  into  small  bits,  sufficient  to  fill  a  teacup;  and  fry  it 
a  light  brown;  remove  the  meat,  and  into  the  grease  stir  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  making  a  sour  gravy,  which  with  the  bacon  pour  over  the  potato  and 
onion;  mix  lightly.    To  be  eaten  when  hot. 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— SALADS.  1 5  5 

POTATO  SALAD,  COLD. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine,  with  enough  raw  onions  to  season  nicely; 
make  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad,  and  pour  over  it. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

String  young  beans;  break  into  half-inch  pieces  or  leave  whole;  wash  and 
cook  soft  in  salt  water;  drain  well;  add  finely  chopped  onions,  pepper,  salt  and 
vinegar;  when  cool,  add  olive  oil  or  melted  butter. 

TO  DRESS  CUCUMBERS  RAW. 

They  should  be  as  fresh  from  the  vine  as  possible,  few  vegetables  being  more 
unwholesome  when  long  gathered.  As  soon  as  they  are  brought  in,  lay  them  in 
cold  water.  Just  before  they  are  to  go  to  table  take  them  out,  pare  them  and 
slice  them  into  a  pan  of  fresh  cold  water.  When  they  are  all  sliced,  transfer 
them  to  a  deep  dish;  season  them  with  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper,  and  pour 
over  them  some  of  the  best  vinegar.  You  may  mix  with  them  a  small  quantity 
of  sliced  onions,  not  to  be  eaten,  but  to  communicate  a  slight  flavor  of  onion  to 
the  vinegar. 

CELERY  UNDRESSED. 

Celery  is  sometimes  seat  to  the  table  without  dressing.  Scrape  the  outside 
stalks,  and  cut  off  the  green  tops  and  the  roots;  lay  it  in  cold  water  until  near 
the  time  to  serve,  then  change  the  water,  in  which  let  it  stand  three  or  four 
minutes;  split  the  stalks  in  three,  with  a  sharp  knife,  being  careful  not  to  break 
them,  and  serve  in  goblet-shaped  salad  glasses. 

To  crisp  celery,  let  it  lie  in  ice-water  two  hours  before  serving;  to  fringe  the 
stalks,  stick  several  coarse  needles  into  a  cork,  and  draw  the  stalk  half  way  from 
the  top  through  the  needles  several  times  and  lay  in  the  refrigerator  fco  curl  and 
crisp. 

RADISHES. 

All  the  varieties  are  generally  served  in  the  same  manner,  by  scraping  and 
placing  on  the  table  in  glasses  containing  some  cold  water  to  keep  them  fresh 
looking. 

PEPPERGRASS  AND  CRESS. 

These  are  used  mostly  as  an  appetizer,  served  simply  with  salt.  Cresses  are 
occasionally  used  in  making  salad. 


156  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— C A TSUFS. 

HORSE-RADISH. 

Horse-radish  is  an  agreeable  relish,  and  has  a  particularly  fresh  taste  in  th&i 
spring;  is  scraped  fine  or  grated,  and  set  on  the  table  in  a  small  covered  cup;, 
much  that  is  bottled  and  sold  as  horse-radish  is  adulterated  with  grated  turnip. 

LETTUCE. 

Wash  each  leaf  separately,  breaking  them  from  the  head;  crisp  in  ice- water 
and  serve  the  leaves  whole,  to  be  prepared  at  table,  providing  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  in  halves  or  slices,  oil  and  other  ingredients,  to  be  mixed  at  table  to  individual, 
taste. 


Catsups. 

TOMATO  CATSUP.     No.  1. 

Put  into  two  quarts  of  tomato-pulp  (or  two  cans  of  canned  tomatoes)  one^ 
onion,  cut  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brown 
sugar.    Boil  until  quite  thick;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  strain  it  through  a. 
sieve,  working  it  until  it  is  all  through  but  the  seeds.    Put  it  back  on  the  stove, 
and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  of  allspice,  one  of  black  pepper,  and. 
one  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of . 
cayenne  pepper,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  pint  of  good  vinegar;  boil  it  until  it> 
will  just  run  from  the  mouth  of  a  bottle.    It  should  be  watched,  stirred  often, 
that  it  does  not  bum.    If  sealed  tight  while  hot^  in  large-mouthed  bottles^  it  will, 
keep  good  for  years. 

TOMATO  CATSUP.    No.  2. 

Cook  one  gallon  of  choice  ripe  tomatoes;  strain  them,  and  cook  again  until, 
they  become  quite  thick.  About  fifteen  minutes  before  taking  up  put  into  them, 
a  small  level  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard  seed, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  whole  allspice,  tied  all 
in  a  thin  musUn  bag.  At  the  same  time,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  one  teacupful  of  best  vinegar,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Seal  up  air- 
tight, either  in  botties  or  jugs.    This  is  a  valuable  Southern  recipe. 

GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  and  two  large  onions,  sliced.    Place  them  izk 
layers,  sprinkling  salt  between;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  theik 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS— CATSUPS.  157 

drain  ihem.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  allspice,  one 
ounce  doveSy  one  ounce  ground  mustard,  one  ounce  ground  ginger,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  black  pepper,  two  teaspoonf  uls  celery  seed,  a  quarter  of  a  poimd  of 
brown  sugar.  Put  all  in  preserving-pan,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  two 
hours;  then  stram  through  a  sieve  and  bottle  for  use. 

WALNUT  CATSUP. 

One  hundred  walnuts,  six  ounces  of  shalots,  one  head  of  garlic,  half  a  pound 
of  salt,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  ounces  of  anchovies,  two  ounces  of  pepper,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves;  beat  in  a  large  mortar 
a  himdred  green  walnuts  until  they  are  thoroughly  broken;  then  put  them  into 
a  jar  with  six  ounces  of  shalots  cut  into  pieces,  a  head  of  garUc,  two  quarts  of 
vinegar  and  the  half  pound  of  salt;  let  them  stand  for  a  fortnight,  stirring 
them  twice  a  day.  Strain  off  the  liquor,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  anchovies, 
whole  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  a  quarter  of  an  oimce  of  mace;  boil  it 
half  an  hour,  skimming  it  well.  Strain  it  off,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  dear  from 
any  sediment  into  small  bottles,  cork  it  down  dosely  and  store  it  in  a  dry  place. 
The  sediment  can  be  used  for  flavoring  sauces. 

OYSTER  CATSUP. 

One  pint  of  oyster  meats,  one  teacupful  of  sherry,  a  tablespoonf ul  of  salt,  a 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  the  same  of  powdered  mace,  a  gill  of  cider 
vinegar. 

Procure  the  oysters  very  fresh,  and  open  sufficient  to  fill  a  pint  measure; 
save  the  liquor,  and  scald  the  oysters  in  it  with  the  sherry;  strain  the  oysters^ 
and  chop  them  fine  with  the  salt,  cayenne  and  mace,  until  reduced  to  a  pulp; 
then  add  it  to  the  hquor  in  which  they  were  scalded;  boil  it  again  five  minutes, 
and  skim  well;  rub  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold^  bottle  and  cork 
dosely.    The  corks  should  be  sealed. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 

Use  the  larger  kind,  known  as  umbrellas  or  "fiaps.'^  They  must  be  very 
fresh  and  not  gathered  in  very  wet  weather,  or  the  catsup  will  be  less  apt  to 
keep.  Wash  and  cut  them  in  two  to  four  pieces,  and  place  them  in  a  wide, 
flat  jar  or  crock  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  for 
twenty-foiu*  hoims;  take  them  out  and  press  out  the  juice,  when  bottle  and 
cork;  put  the  mushrooms  back  again,  and  in  another  twenty-four  hours  press 
them  again;  bottle  and  cork;  repeat  this  for  the  third  time,  and  then  mi-r 


158  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— CA  TS  UPS. 

together  all  the  juice  extracted;  add  to  it  pepper,  allspice,  one  or  more  doves 
according  to  quantity,  poimded  together;  boil  the  whole,  and  skim  as  long  as 
any  scum  rises;  bottle  when  cool;  put  in  each  bottle  two  doves  and  a  pepper- 
corn.   Cork  and  seal,  put  in  a  dry  place,  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 

Ten  pounds  of  fruit  gathered  just  before  ripening,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  ground  black  pepper,  allspice,  and 
cinnamon.  Boil  the  fruit  in  vinegar  until  reduced  to  a  pulp,  then  add  sugar  and 
the  other  seasoning.    Seal  it  hot. 

Grape  catsup  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Take  cucumbers  suitable  for  the  table;  ped  and  grate  them,  salt  a  little,  and 
put  in  a  bag  to  drain  over  night;  in  the  morning  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper 
and  vinegar,  put  in  small  jars  and  seal  tight  for  fall  or  winter  use. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. 

Foin*  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  doves,  a  tablespoonful  of  dnnamon,  pepper  and  allspice.  Boil  in  a 
porcelain  sauce-pan  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  all  but 
the  skins;  boil  down  until  just  thick  enough  to  run  freely  from  the  mouth  of  a 
bottle  when  cold.    Cork  and  set  aside. 

APPLE  CATSUP. 

Peel  and  quarter  a  dozen  sound,  tart  apples;  stew  them  until  soft,  in  as  little 
water  as  possible,  then  pass  them  through  a  sieve.  To  a  quart  of  the  sifted 
apple,  add  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  doves,  one  of 
mustard,  two  of  dnnamon,  and  two  medium-sized  onions,  chopped  very  fine. 
Stir  all  together,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Place 
over  the  fire  and  boil  one  hour,  and  bottle  while  hot;  seal  very  tight.  It  should 
be  about  as  thick  as  tomato  catsup,  so  that  it  will  just  run  from  the  bottle. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

A  quart  of  fresh  celery,  chopped  fine,  or  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed; 
one  quart  of  best  vinegar;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  white  sugar. 
Put  the  celery  or  seed  into  a  jar,  heat  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt;  pour  it  boiling 
hot  over  the  cdery,  let  it  cool,  cover  it  tightly  and  set  away.  In  two  weeks 
strain  and  bottle. 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS^PICKLES.  1 59 

SPICED  VINEGAR. 

Take  one  quart  of  dder  vinegar,  put  into  it  half  an  ounce  of  celery  seed,  one- 
third  of  an  ounce  of  dried  mint,  one-third  of  an  ounce  of  dried  parsley,  one 
garlic,  three  small  onions,  three  whole  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  pepper- 
corns, a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar;  add  a  tablesi)oonful  of  good  brandy.  Put  all  into  a  jar,  and  cover  it  well; 
let  it  stand  for  three  weeks,  then  strain  and  bottle  it  well.  Useful  for  flavoring 
salad  and  other  dishes. 


ipicMes* 

Pickles  should  never  be  put  into  vessels  of  brass,  copper  or  tin,  as  the  action 
of  the  acid  on  such  metals  often  results  in  poisoning  the  pickles.  Porcelain  or 
granite-ware  is  the  best  for  such  purposes. 

Vinegar  that  is  used  for  pickling  should  be  the  best  cider  or  white- wine,  and 
should  never  be  boiled  more  than  five  or  six  minutes,  as  it  reduces  its  strength. 
In  putting  away  pickles,  use  stone  or  g}ass  jai^;  the  glazing  on  common  earthen- 
ware is  rendered  injurious  by  the  action  of  the  vinegar.  When  the  jar  is  nearly 
filled  with  the  pickles,  the  vinegar  should  completely  cover  them,  and  if  there 
is  any  appearance  of  their  not  doing  well,  tmm  off  the  vinegar,  cover  with  fresh 
vinegar,  and  spices.  Alum  in  small  quantities  is  useful  in  making  them  firm 
and  crisp.    In  using  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  muslin  bags. 

To  green  pickles,  put  green  grape-vine  leaves  or  green  cabbage  leaves 
between  them  when  heating.  Another  way  is  to  heat  them  in  strong  ginger 
tea.  Pickles  should  be  kept  closely  covered,  put  into  glass  jars  and  sealed 
tightly. 

"  Turmeric ''  is  India  saffron,  and  is  used  very  much  in  pickling  as  a  coloring. 

A  piece  of  horse-radish  put  into  a  jar  of  pickles  wiU  keep  the  vinegar  from 
losing  its  strength,  and  the  pickles  will  keep  sound  much  longer,  especially 
tomato  pickles. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Select  the  medium,  small-sized  cucimibers.  For  one  bushel  make  a  brine  that 
will  bear  up  an  egg;  heat  it  boiling  hot  and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers;  let  them 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  wipe  them  dry;  heat  some  vinegar  boiling  hot, 
and  pour  over  them,  standing  again  twenty-four  hours.    Now  change  the  vine- 


1 60  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS—PICKLES. 

» 

gar^  putting  on  fresh  yinegar^  adding  one  quart  of  brown  sugar^  a  pint  of  white 
mustard  seed^  a  small  handful  of  whole  doves,  the  same  of  cinnamon  sticks,  a 
piece  of  alum  the  size  of  an  egg,  ha^^  a  cup  of  celery  seed;  heat  it  all  boiling  hot 
and  pour  over  the  cucumbers. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Take  one  gallon  of  medium-sized  cucumbers,  put  them  into  a  J€ur  or  paiL 
Put  into  enough  hoUing  water  to  cover  them  a  small  handful  of  salt,  turn  it  over 
them  and  cover  closely;  repeat  this  three  mornings,  and  the  fourth  morning 
scald  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover  them,  putting  into  it  a  piece  of  alimi  as 
lai^e  as  a  walnut,  a  teacup  of  horse-radish  root  cut  up  fine;  then  tie  up  in  a  small 
muslin  bag,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  of  ground  doves,  and  one  of  cinna- 
mon. Shoe  up  the  cucumbers  half  of  an  inch  thick,  place  them  in  glass  jars 
and  pour  the  scalding  vinegar  over  them.    Seal  tight  and  they  will  keep  good  a 

year  or  more. 

— Mbs.  Lydia  0.  Weight,  South  Vernon,  Vermont. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES.    (For  Winter  Use.) 

A  good  way  to  put  down  cucumbers,  a  few  at  a  time: 

When  gathered  from  the  vines,  wash,  and  put  in  a  firkin  or  half  barrel 
layers  of  cucumbers  and  rock-salt  alternately,  enough  salt  to  make  sufiident 
brine  to  cover  them,  no  water;  cover  with  a  doth;  keep  them  under  the  brine 
with  a  heavy  board;  take  oflf  the  cloth,  and  rinse  it  every  time  you  put  in  fresh 
cucumbers,  as  a  scum  will  rise  and  settle  upon  it.  Use  plenty  of  salt  and  it  will 
keep  a  year.  To  prepare  pickles  for  use,  soak  in  hot  water,  and  keep  in  a  warm 
place  imtil  they  ai'e  fresh  enough,  then  pour  spiced  vinegar  over  them  and  let 
them  stand  over  night,  then  pom*  that  off  and  put  on  fresh. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES.    (Sweet.) 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  the  day  before  you  are  ready  for  pickUng, 
sprinkling  them  through  and  through  with  salt,  not  too  heavily;  in  the  morning 
drain  off  the  liquor  that  will  drain  from  them.  Have  a  dozen  good-sized  onions 
rather  coarsely  sliced;  take  a  sm'table  kettle  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  sliced 
tomatoes,  then  of  onions,  and  between  each  layer  sprinkle  the  following  spices: 
Six  red  peppers  chopped  coarsdy,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground 
allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one 
tablespoonful  of  mustard.  Tiun  over  three  pints  of  good  vin^ar,  or  enough  to 
completdy  cover  them;  boil  imtil  tender.    This  is  a  choice  recipe. 


SA  UCES  AND  DJ^ESSINGS— PICKLES.  1 6 1 

If  the  flavor  of  onions  is  objectionable,  the  pickle  is  equally  as  good  without 
'them. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES.    (Sour.) 

Wash  and  sKce,  without  peeling,  one  peck  of  sound  green  tomatoes,  put 
them  into  a  jar  in  layers  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  between.  This  may  be 
done  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  Uquor  that  has  accimiulated. 
Have  two  dozen  medium-sized  onions  peeled  and  sliced,  also  six  red  peppers 
■chopped  fine.  Make  some  spiced  vinegar  by  boiling  for  half  an  hour  a  quart  of 
cider  vinegar  with  whole  spices  in  it.  Now  take  a  porcelain  kettle  and  place  in  it 
some  of  the  sliced  tomatoes,  then  some  of  the  sliced  onions;  shake  in  some  black 
pepper  and  some  of  the  chopped  red  peppers;  pour  over  some  of  the  spiced  vine- 
gar; then  repeat  with  the  tomatoes,  onions,  etc.,  until  the  kettle  is  full;  cover 
with  cold,  pure,  cider  vinegar,  and  cook  imtil  tender,  but  not  too  soft.  Turn  into 
a  jar  well-covered,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS. 

Sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the  mushrooms;  to  each  quart  of  mushrooms  two 
blades  pounded  mace,  one  ounce  ground  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  Choose  some  nice 
young  button-mushrooms  for  pickling,  and  rub  off  the  skin  with  a  piece  of 
flannel  and  salt,  and  cut  off  the  stalks;  if  very  large,  take  out  the  xed  inside, 
and  reject  the  black  ones,  as  they  are  too  old.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  sprinkle 
salt  over  them,  with  pounded  mace  and  pepper  in  the  above  proportion;  shake 
them  well  over  a  dear  fire  until  the  liquor  flows,  and  keep  them  there  until  it  is 
all  dried  up  again;  then  add  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  them;  just  let  it 
simmer  for  one  minute,  and  store  it  away  in  stone  jars  for  use.  When  cold,  tie 
down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place;  they  will  remain  good  for  a  length 
of  time,  and  are  generally  considered  excellent  for  flavoring  stews  and  other 
dishes. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE.    (Purple.) 

Out  a  sound  cabbage  into  quarters,  spread  it  on  a  large  flat  platter  or  dish 
and  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt;  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  twenty-four  hours;  then 
drain  off  the  brine,  wipe  it  dry  and  lay  it  in  the  sun  two  hours,  and  cover  with 
cold  vinegar  for  twelve  hours.  Prepare  a  pickle  by  seasoning  enough  vinegar 
to  cover  the  cabbage  with  equal  quantities  of  mace,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  black 
pepper,  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed  to  every  pint.  Pack  the  cabbage  in  a  stone  jar;  boil  the  vinegar  and  spices 
five  minutes  and  pour  on  hot.  Cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  It  will  be 
good  in  a  month.    A  few  slices  of  beet-root  improves  the  color. 

33 


1 62  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES. 

PICKLED  WHITE  CABBAGE. 

This  recipe  recommends  itself  as  of  a  delightful  flavor^  yet  easily  made,  and 
a  convenient  substitute  for  the  old-fashioned,  tedious  method  of  pickling  the 
same  vegetable.  Take  a  peck  of  quartered  cabbage,  put  a  layer  of  cabbage  and 
one  of  salt,  let  it  remain  over  iiight;  in  the  morning  squeeze  them  and  put  them 
on  the  fire,  with  four  chopped  onions  covered  with  vinegar;  boil  for  half  an 
hour,  then  add  one  ounce  of  turmeric,  one  gill  of  black  pepper,  one  gill  of  celery 
seed,  a  few  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  a  few  pieces  of  ginger,  half  an 
ounce  of  mace,  and  two  poimds  of  brown  sugar.  Let  it  boil  half  an  hour  longer, 
and  when  cold  it  is  fit  for  use.  Four  tablespoonf uls  of  made  mustard  should  b» 
added  with  the  other  ingredients. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Break  the  heads  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  salt  and 
water;  remove  from  the  water  and  drain  carefully.  When  cold,  place  in  a  jar, 
and  pour  over  it  hot  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  scalded  a  liberal  supply  of  whole 
cloves,  pepper,  allspice  and  white  mustard.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  bag,  and,  on 
removing  the  vinegar  from  the  fire,  stir  into  each  quart  of  it  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  French  mustard,  and  half  a  cup  of  white  sugar.  Cover  tightly  and  be  sure 
to  have  the  vinegar  cover  the  pickle. 

PICKLED  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Take  two  dozen  large,  green,  bell  peppers,  extract  the  seeds  by  cutting  a  slit 
in  the  side  (so  as  to  leave  them  whole).  Make  a  strong  brine  and  pour  over 
them;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Take  them  out  of  the  brine,  and  soak 
them  in  water  for  a  day  and  a  night;  now  turn  off  this  water  and  scald  some 
vinegar,  in  which  put  a  small  piece  of  alum,  and  pour  over  them,  letting  them 
stand  three  days.  Prepare  a  stufSng  of  two  hard  heads  of  white  cabbage, 
chopped  fine,  seasoned  slightly  with  salt  and  a  cup  of  white  mustard  seed;  mix 
it  well  and  stuff  the  peppers  hard  and  full;  stitch  up,  place  them  in  a  stone  jar» 
and  pour  over  spiced  vinegar  scalding  hot.    Cover  tightly. 

GREEN  PEPPER  MANGOES. 

Select  firm,  soimd,  green  peppers,  and  add  a  few  red  ones,  as  they  are  oma-^ 
mental  and  look  well  upon  the  table.  With  a  sharp  knife  remove  the  top,  take 
out  the  seedy  soak  over  night  in  salt  water,  then  fill  with  chopped  cabbage  and 
green  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  mustard  seed  and  ground  cloves.    Sew  on 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES.  1 63 

the  top.    Boil  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  them,  with  a  cup  of  brown  sugar^  and 
pour  over  the  mangoes.    Do  this  three  mornings,  then  seal. 

CHOWCHOW.  (Superior  EngUsh  Recipe.) 
This  excellent  pickle  is  seldom  made  at  home,  as  we  can  get  the  imported 
article  so  much  better  than  it  can  be  made  from  the  usual  recipes.  This  we 
vouch  for  as  being  as  near  the  genuine  article  as  can  be  made:  One  quart  of 
young,  tiny  cucumbers,  not  over  two  inches  long,  two  quarts  of  very  small  white 
onions,  two  quarts  of  tender  string  beans,  each  one  cut  in  halves,  three  quarts  of 
green  tomatoes,  sliced  and  chopped  very  coarsely,  two  fresh  heads  of  cauliflower, 
cut  into  smaU  pieces,  or  two  heads  of  white,  hard  cabbage. 

After  preparing  these  articles,  put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  mix  them  together, 
sprinkling  salt  between  them  sparingly.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hom-s, 
then  drain  off  aJl  the  brine  that  has  accumulated.  Now  put  these  vegetables  in 
a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  sprinkling  through  them  an  ounce  of  turmeric 
for  coloring,  six  red  peppers,  chopped  coarsely,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard 
seed,  two  of  celery  seed,  two  of  whole  allspice,  two  of  whole  cloves,  a  coffee  cup 
of  sugar,  and  two-thirds  of  a  teacup  of  best  ground  mixed  mustard.  Pour  on 
enough  of  the  best  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  whole  well;  cover  tightly  and 
simmer  all  well  until  it  is  cooked  all  through  and  seems  tender,  watching  and 
stirring  it  often.  Put  in  bottles  or  glass  jars.  It  grows  better  as  it  grows 
older,  especially  if  sealed  when  hot. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Peel  small  onions  until  they  are  white.  Scald  them  in  salt  and  water  until 
tender,  then  take  them  up,  put  them  into  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  pour  over 
them  hot  spiced  vinegar;  when  cold,  cork  them  close.  Keep  in  a  dry,  dark 
place.    A  tablespoonf ul  of  sweet  oil  may  be  put  in  the  bottles  before  the  cork. 

■ 

The  best  sort  of  onions  for  pickling  are  the  small  white  buttons. 

PICKLED  MANGOES. 

Let  the  mangoes,  or  young  musk-melons,  he  in  salt  water  strong  enough  to* 
bear  an  egg,  for  two  weeks;  then  soak  them  in  pure  water  for  two  days,  chang- 
ing the  water  two  or  three  times;  then  remove  the  seeds  and  put  the  mangoes, 
in  a  kettle,  first  a  layer  of  grape  leaves,  then  mangoes,  and  so  on  until  all  are  in, 
covering  the  top  with  leaves;  add  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut;, 
pour  vinegar  over  them  and  boil  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  remove  the  leaves 
and  let  the  pickles  stand  in  this  vinegar  for  a  week;  then  stuff  them  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture:  One  pound  of  ginger  soaked  in  brine  for  a  day  or  two,  and  cut 


164  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES. 

in  slices,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one  of  mace,  one  of  allspice,  one  of  turmeric, 
half  a  pound  of  garlic,  soaked  for  a  day  or  two  in  brine,  and  then  dried;  one 
pint  grated  horse-radish,  one  of  black  mustard  seed  and  one  of  white  mustard 
«eed;  bruise  all  the  spices  and  mix  with  a  teacup  of  pure  olive  oil;  to  each 
mango  add  one  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar;  cut  one  solid  head  of  cabbage  fine; 
add  one  pint  of  small  onions,  a  few  small  cucumbers  and  green  tomatoes;  lay 
'them  in  brine  a  day  and  a  night,  then  drain  them  well  and  add  the  imperfect 
mangoes  chopped  fine  and  the  spices;  mix  thoroughly,  stuff  the  mangoes  and  tie 
"them;  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  them  the  best  cider  vin^ar;  set 
'them  in  a  bright,  dry  place  until  they  are  canned.  In  a  month  add  three 
poimds  of  brown  sugar;  if  this  is  not  sufficient,  add  more  until  agreeable  to 
i^aste.    This  is  for  four  dozen  mangoes. 

PICKLE  OF  RIPE  CUCUMBERS. 

This  is  a  French  recipe,  and  is  the  most  excellent  of  all  the  high-flavored 
<x)ndiments;  it  is  made  by  sun-drying  thirty  old,  fuU-grown  cucumbers,  which 
Lave  first  been  pared  and  spUt,  had  the  seeds  taken  out,  been  salted,  and  let 
stand  twenty-foiu:  hours.  The  sun  should  be  permitted  to  drtfj  not  simply  drain 
them.  When  they  are  moderately  dry,  wash  them  with  vinegar,  and  place 
them  in  layers  in  a  jar,  alternating  them  with  a  layer  of  horse-radish,  mustard 
•seed,  garhc,  and  onions,  for  each  layer  of  cucumbers.  Boil  in  one  quart  of  vine- 
,gar,  one  ounce  of  race-ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  the  same  of  turmeric; 
'when  cool  pour  this  over  the  cucimibers,  tie  up  tightly,  and  set  away.  This  pickle 
requires  several  months  to  mature  it,  but  is  delicious  when  old,  keeps  admira- 
Jbly,  and  only  a  little  is  needed  as  a  relish. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

One  gallon  of  oysters;  wash  them  weU  in  their  own  liquor;  carefully  dear 
;sway  the  particles  of  shell,  then  put  them  into  a  kettle,  strain  the  Uquor  over 
them,  add  salt  to  your  taste,  let  them  just  come  to  the  boiling  pobit,  or  until  the 
edges  curl  up;  then  skim  them  out  and  lay  in  a  dish  to  cool;  put  a  sprig  of  mace 
•and  a  little  cold  pepper;  and  allow  the  hquor  to  boil  some  time,  sTrimming  it 
now  and  then  so  long  as  any  scum  rises.  Pour  it  into  a  pan  and  let  it  cool. 
When  perfectly  cool,  add  a  half  pint  of  strong  vinegar,  place  the  oysters  in  a  jar 
^md  pour  the  liquor  over  them. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES.    (Sweet.) 

Pare  and  seed  ripe  cucumbers.    SUce  each  cucumber  lengthwise  into  four 
pieces,  or  cut  it  into  fancy  shapes  as  preferred.    Let  them  stand  twenty-four 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES.  1 65 

hours  covered  with  cold  vinegar.  Drain  them;  then  put  them  into  fresh  vine- 
gar, with  two  poirnds  of  sugar  and  one  ounce  of  cassia  buds  to  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Boil  all  together  twenty  minutes.  Cover 
them  closely  in  a  jar. 

PICCALILI. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes;  eight  large  onions,  chopped  fine,  with  one  cup 
of  salt  well  stirred  in.  Let  it  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  off  aU  the 
hquor.  Now  take  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  of  vinegar,  boil  all  together 
twenty  minutes.  Drain  all  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Put  it  back  into  the 
kettle  again;  turn  over  it  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  pepper,  two  of  cin- 
namon, one  of  cloves,  two  of  ginger,  one  of  allspice,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Stir  it  often 
to  prevent  scorching.    Seal  in  glass  jars. 

A  most  delicious  accompaniment  for  any  kind  of  meat  or  fish. 

— Mtb.  8U  Johns* 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Pickled  eggs  are  very  easily  prepared  and  most  excellent  as  an  accompani- 
ment for  cold  meats.  Boil  quite  hard  three  dozen  eggs,  drop  in  cold  water  and 
remove  the  shells,  and  pack  them  when  entirely  cold  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar, 
large  enough  to  let  them  in  or  out  without  breaking.  Take  as  much  vinegar  as 
you  think  will  cover  them  entirely,  and  boil  in  it  white  pepper,  allspice,  a  httle 
root-ginger;  pack  them  in  stone  or  wide^mouthed  glass  jars,  occasionally  putting 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  white  and  black  mustard  seed  mixed,  a  small  piece  of  race 
ginger,  garlic,  if  liked,  horse-radish  migrated,  whole  cloves,  and  a  very  little 
allspice.  Slice  two  or  three  green  peppers,  and  add  in  very  small  quantities. 
They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  eight  or  ten  days. 

AN  ORNAMENTAL  PICKLE- 

Boil  fresh  eggs  half  an  hour,  then  put  them  in  cold  water.  Boil  red  beets 
until  tender,  peel  and  cut  in  dice  form,  and  cover  with  vinegar,  spiced;  sheU  the 
eggs  and  drop  into  the  pickle  jar. 

EAST  INDIA  PICKLE. 

Lay  in  strong  brine  for  two  weeks,  or  until  convenient  to  use  them,  small 
cucumbers,  very  small  conunon  white  onions,  snap  beans,  gherkins,  hard  white 
cabbage  quartered,  plruns,  peaches,  pears,  lemons,  green  tomatoes  and  anything 
else  you  may  wish.    When  ready,  take  them  out  of  the  brine  and  simmer  in 


1 66  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES. 

pure  water  until  tender  enough  to  stick  a  straw  through— if  still  too  salt,  soak 
in  clear  water;  drain  thoroughly  and  lay  them  in  vinegar  in  which  is  dissolved 
one  ounce  of  turmeric  to  the  gallon.  For  five  gallons  of  pickle,  take  two  ounces 
of  mace,  two  of  doves,  two  of  cinnamon,  two  of  allspice,  two  of  celery  seed,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  race  ginger,  cracked  fine,  half  a  povmd  of  white 
mustard  seed,  half  a  pint  of  small  red  peppers>  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated 
horse-radish,  half  a  pint  of  flour  mustard,  two  ounces  of  turmeric,  half  a  pint  of 
garlic,  if  you  like;  soak  in  two  gallons  of  dder  vinegar  for  two  weeks,  stirring 
daily.  After  the  pickles  have  lain  in  the  turmeric  vinegar  for  a  week,  take  them 
out  and  put  in  jars  or  casks,  one  layer  of  pickle  and  one  of  spice  out  of  the  vine- 
gar, till  all  is  used.  If  the  turmeric  vinegar  is  still  good  and  strong,  add  it  and 
the  spiced  vinegar.  If  the  turmeric  vinegar  be  much  diluted,  do  not  use  it,  but 
add  enough  fresh  to  the  spiced  to  cover  the  pickles;  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon;  when  boiling,  pour  over  the  pickle.  Bepeat 
this  two  or  three  times  as  your  taste  may  direct. 

MIXED  PICKLES. 

Scald  in  salt  water  until  tender,  cauliflower  heads,  small  onions,  peppers, 
cucumbers  cut  in  dice,  nasturtiums  and  green  beans;  then  drain  tmtil  dry,  and 
pack  into  wide-mouthed  bottles.  Boil  in  each  pint  of  cider  vinegar  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard; 
pour  over  the  pickle  and  seal  carefully.    Other  spices  may  be  added  if  liked. 

BLUE-BERRY  PICKLES. 

For  blue-berry  pickles,  old  jars  which  have  lost  their  covers,  or  whose  edges 
have  been  broken  so  that  the  covers  wiU  not  fit  tightly,  serve  an  excellent  pm:- 
I>ose,  as  these  pickles  must  not  be  kept  air-tight. 

Pick  over  your  berries,  using  only  sound  ones;  fill  your  jars  or  wide-mouthed 
bottles  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top,  then  poiur  in  molasses  enough  to  settle 
down  into  aU  the  spaces;  this  cannot  be  done  in  a  moment,  as  molasses  does  not 
run  very  freely.  Only  lazy  people  will  feel  obliged  to  stand 'by  and  watch  its 
progress.  As  it  settles,  pom*  in  more  imtil  the  hemes  are  covered.  Then  tie 
over  the  top  a  piece  of  cotton  cloth  to  keep  the  files  and  other  insects  out,  and  set 
away  in  the  preserve  closet.  Cheap  molasses  is  good  enough,  and  your  pickles 
will  soon  be  '^  sharp. "    Wild  grapes  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  manner. 

PICKLED  BUTTERNUTS  AND  WALNUTS. 
These  nuts  are  in  the  best  state  for  pickling  when  the  outside  shell  can  be 
penetrated  by  the  head  of  a  pin.     Scald  them,  and  rub  off  the  outside  skin,  put 


SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS-^FICKLES.  167 

them  in  a  strong  brine  for  six  days,  changing  the  water  every  other  day,  keep- 
ing them  closely  covered  from  the  air.  Then  drain  and  wipe  them,  (piercing 
each  nut  through  in  several  places  with  a  large  needle,)  and  prepare  the  pickle 
as  follows: — For  a  hundred  large  nuts,  take  of  black  pepper  and  ginger  root  each 
an  ounce;  and  of  cloves,  mace  and  nutmeg  each  a  half  ounce.  Poimd  all  the 
spices  to  powder,  and  mix  them  well  together,  adding  two  large  spoonfuls  of 
mustard  seed.  Put  the  nuts  into  jars,  (having  first  stuck  each  of  them  through 
in  several  places  with  a  large  needle,)  strewing  the  powdered  seasoning  between 
every  layer  of  nuts.  Boil  for  five  minutes  a  gallon  of  the  very  best  cider  vine- 
gar, and  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  the  nuts.  Secure  the  jars  closely  with  corks. 
You  may  begin  to  eat  the  nuts  in  a  fortnight. 

WATERMELON  PICKLE. 

Ten  poimds  of  watermelon  rind  boiled  in  pure  water  until  tender;  drain  the 
water  off,  and  make  a  syrup  of  two  pounds  of  white  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon.  The  syrup  to  be  poured  over 
the  rind  boiling  hot  three  days  in  succession. 

SWEET  PICKLE  FOR  FRUIT. 

Most  of  the  recipes  for  making  a  sweet  pickle  for  fruit,  such  as  cling-stone 
peaches,  damsons,  plim[is,  cherries,  apricots,  etc.,  are  so  similar,  that  we  give  that 
which  is  the  most  successfully  used. 

To  every  quart  of  fruit,  allow  a  cup  of  white  sugar  and  a  large  pint  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  adding  half  an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
whoU  cloves,  the  same  of  whole  allspice.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  the  fruit;  repeat  this  two  or  three  days  in  succession;  then  seal  hot  in  glass 
jars  if  you  wish  to  keep  it  for  a  long  time 

The  fmitj  not  the  liquor,  is  to  be  eaten,  and  used  the  same  as  any  pickle. 
Some  confound  this  with  ^^  Spiced  Fruit,"  which  is  not  treated  the  same,  one 
being  a  pickle,  the  other  a  spiced  preserve  boiled  down  thick. 

Damsons  and  plums  should  be  pricked  with  a  needle,  and  peaches  washed 
with  a  weak  lye,  and  then  rubbed  with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  fur. 

PEAR  PICKLE. 

Select  small,  sound  ones,  remove  the  blossom  end,  stick  them  with  a  fork, 
allow  to  each  quart  of  pears  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  put 
in  a  teaspoonful  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  boil  with  the  viD^ar ;  then 
add  the  pears  and  boil,  and  seal  in  jars. 


1 68  SA  UCES  AND  DRESSINGS— PICKLES. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar^ 
one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  doves.  Put  into  a 
kettle  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  soft;  then  skim  out  the  fruit,  putting  it  on  dishes 
until  the  syrup  is  boiled  down  thick.  Turn  the  Emit  back  into  the  syrup  again^ 
so  as  to  heat  it  all  through;  then  seal  it  hot  in  glass  jars,  and  set  it  in  a  cool,  dark 
place. 

Any  tart  fruit  may  be  put  up  in  this  way,  and  is  considered  a  very  good 
embellishment  for  cold  meats. 

SPICED  PLUMS. 

Seven  pounds  of  plums,  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  broken  cinnamon  bark,  half  as  much  of  whole  cloves  and  the 
same  of  broken  nutmeg;  place  these  in  a  muslin  bag  and  simmer  them  in  a  little 
vinegar  and  water  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  it  all  to  the  vinegar  and  sugar,  and 
bring  to  a  boil;  add  the  plums,  and  boil  carefully  until  they  are  cooked  tender. 
Before  cooking  the  plums  they  should  be  pierced  with  a  darning  needle  several 
times;  this  will  prevent  the  skins  bursting  while  cooking. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

Take  the  pulp  from  the  grapes,  preserving  the  skins.  Boil  the  pulp  and  rub 
through  a  colander  to  get  out  the  seeds;  then  add  the  skins  to  the  strained  pulp 
and  boil  with  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  To  every  seven  pounds  of  grapes 
use  four  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  good  vinegar.  Spice  quite 
highly  with  ground  cloves  and  allspice,  with  a  little  cinnamon. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Select  sound,  large  cherries,  as  large  as  you  can  get  them;  to  every  quart  of 
cherries  allow  a  large  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  dozen 
whole  cloves,  and  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace;  put  the  vinegar  and  sugar  on  to 
heat  with  the  spices;  boil  five  minutes,  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  vessel; 
cover  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold;  pack  the  cherries  into  jars,  and  pour  the  vine- 
gar over  them  when  cold;  cork  tightly  and  set  away;  they  are  fit  for  use  almost 
immediately. 


'•fflp^  I  *TJlfr*  I  *^jml^ 


CQ)V9  '  cxgy©  e^gy© 


Vegetables  of  all  kinds  should  be  thoroughly  picked  over,  throwing  out  all 
decayed  or  unripe  parts,  then  well  washed  in  several  waters.  Most  vegetables^ 
when  peeled,  are  better  when  laid  in  cold  water  a  short  time  before  cooking. 
When  partly  cooked  a  little  salt  should  be  thrown  into  the  water  in  which  they 
are  boiled,  and  they  should  cook  steadily  after  they  are  put  on,  not  allowed  to 
stop  boiling  or  simmering  until  they  are  thoroughly  done.  Every  sort  of 
culinary  vegetable  is  much  better  when  freshly  gathered  and  cooked  as  soon  as 
possible,  and,  when  done,  thoroughly  drained,  and  served  immediately  while  hot. 

Onions,  cabbage,  carrots  and  turnips  should  be  cooked  in  a  great  deal  of 
water,  boiled  only  long  enough  to  sufficiently  cook  them,  and  immediately 
drained.  Longer  boiling  makes  them  insipid  in  taste,  and  with  too  little  water 
they  turn  a  dark  color. 

Potatoes  rank  first  in  importance  in  the  vegetable  line,  and  consequently 
should  be  properly  served.  It  requires  some  httle  intelligence  to  cook  even  so^ 
simple  and  common  a  dish  as  boiled  potatoes.  In  the  first  place,  aU  defective  or 
green  ones  should  be  cast  out;  a  bad  one  will  flavor  a  whole  dish.  If  they  are 
not  uniform  in  size,  they  should  be  made  so  by  cutting  after  they  are  peeled. 
The  best  part  of  a  potato,  or  the  most  nutritious,  is  next  to  the  skin,  therefore 
they  should  be  pared  very  thinly,  if  at  all;  then,  if  old,  the  cores  should  be  cut 
out,  thrown  into  cold  water  salted  a  httle,  and  boiled  until  soft  enough  for  a  fork 
to  pierce  through  easily;  drain  immediately,  and  replace  the  kettle  on  the  fire 
with  the  cover  partly  removed,  until  they  are  completely  dried.  New  potatoes 
should  be  put  into  boiling  water,  and  when  partly  done  salted  a  Uttle.  They 
should  be  prepared  just  in  time  for  cooking,  by  scraping  off  the  thin  outside 
skin.    They  require  about  twenty  minutes  to  boil. 

TO  BOIL  NEW  POTATOES. 

Do  not  have  the  potatoes  dug  long  before  they  are  dressed,  as  they  are  never 
good  when  they  have  been  out  of  the  ground  some  time.    Well  wash  them,  rub 


170  VEGETABLES. 

off  the  skins  with  a  coarse  cloth^  and  put  them  in  boUing  water  salted.  I^t 
them  boil  mitil  tender;  try  them  with  a  fork,  and  when  done  pour  the  water 
away  from  them;  let  them  stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire  with  the  hd  of  the 
sauce-pan  partially  removed,  and'  when  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  dry,  put 
them  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  pile  the 
potatoes  over  this,  and  serve.  If  the  potatoes  are  too  old  to  have  the  skins  rubbed 
off,  boil  them  in  their  jackets;  drain,  peel  and  serve  them  as  above,  with  a  piece 
of  butter  placed  in  the  midst  of  them.  They  require  twenty  to  thirty  minutes 
to  cook.    Serve  them  hot  and  plain,  or  with  melted  butter  over  them. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Take  the  quantity  needed,  pare  off  the  skins>  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  half 
an  hour;  then  put  theni  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  Uttle  sal^t;  cover  with  water  and 
boil  them  until  done.  Drain  off  the  water  and  mash  them  fine  with  a  potato- 
masher.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted  in  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  hot  milk,  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt;  mix  it  well  with  the  mashed 
potatoes  until  they  are  a  smooth  paste,  taking  care  that  they  are  not  too  wet. 
Put  them  into  a  vegetable  dish,  heap  them  up  and  smooth  over  the  top,  put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  in  the  centre,  and  have  dots  of  pepper  here  and 
there  on  the  surface  as  large  as  a  half  dime. 

Some  prefer  using  a  heavy  fork  or  wire-beater,  instead  of  a  potato-masher, 
beating  the  potatoes  quite  light,  and  heaping  them  up  in  the  dish  without 
smoothing  over  the  top. 

BROWNED  POTATOES. 

Mash  them  the  same  as  the  above,  put  them  into  a  dish  that  they  are  to  be 
served  in,  smooth  over  the  top,  and  brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  or  spread 
on  a  bountiful  supply  of  butter  and  dust  well  with  flour.  Set  in  the  oven  to 
brown;  it  will  brown  in  fifteen  minutes  with  a  quick  fire. 

MASHED  POTATOES,  (Warmed  Over.) 

To  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  add  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  two  ^gs  beaten 
to  a  froth.  Mix  the  whole  until  thoroughly  light;  then  put  into  a  pudding  or 
vegetable  dish,  spread  a  little  butter  over  the  top,  and  bake  a  golden  brown. 
The  quality  depends  upon  very  thoroughly  beating  the  eggs  before  adding  them, 
so  that  the  potato  will  remain  Ught  and  porous  after  baking,  similar  to  sponge- 
cake. 


VEGETABLES.  171 

POTATO  PUFFS. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  directed  for  mashed  potato.  While  hot^  shape  in 
balls  about  the  size  of  an  egg.  Have  a  tin  sheet  well  buttered,  and  place  the 
balls  on  it.  As  soon  as  all  are  done,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg.  Brown  in 
the  oven.  When  done,  slip  a  knife  under  them  and  slide  them  upon  a  hot 
platter.    Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  immediately. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CRfeME. 

Heat  a  cupful  of  milk;  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  as 
much  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  thick;  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  two  cupfuls 
of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced,  and  a  little  very  finely  chopped  parsley.  Shake 
over  the  fire  until  the  potatoes  are  hot  aU  thfough,  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish. 

NEW  POTATOES  AND  CREAM. 

Wash  and  rub  new  potatoes  with  a  coarse  cloth  or  scrubbing-brush;  drop 
into  boiling  water  and  boil  briskly  until  done,  and  no  more;  press  a  potato 
against  the  side  of  the  kettle  with  a  fork;  if  done,  it  will  yield  to  a  gentle 
pressure;  in  a  sauce-pan  have  ready  some  butter  and  cream,  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing, a  little  green  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  drain  the  potatoes,  add  the  mixture, 
put  over  hot  water  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  serve. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Peel  good-sized  potatoes,  and  slice  them  as  evenly  as  possible.  Drop  them  into 
ice- water;  have  a  kettle  of  very  hot  lard,  as  for  cakes;  put  a  few  at  a  time  into  a 
towel  and  shake,  to  dry  the  moisture  out  of  them,  and  then  drop  them  into  the 
boiling  lard.  Stir  them  occasionally,  and  when  of  a  hght  brown  take  them  out 
with  a  skimmer,  and  they  will  be  crisp  and  not  greasy.  Sprinkle  salt  over  them 
while  hot. 

FRIED  RAW  POTATOES. 

Peel  half  a  dozen  medium-sized  potatoes  very  evenly,  cut  them  in  slices  as 
thin  as  an  egg-shell,  and  be  sure  to  cut  them  from  the  breadthy  not  the  length, 
of  the  potato.  Put  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sweet  lard  into  the 
frying-pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  sliced  potatoes,  sprinkling  over  them 
salt  and  pepper  to  season  them.  Cover  them  with  a  tight-fitting  lid,  and  let  the 
steam  partly  cook  them;  then  remove  it,  and  let  them  fry  a  bright  gold  color, 
shaking  and  turning  them  carefully,  so  as  to  brown  equally.    Serve  very  hot. 


172  VEGETABLES. 

Fried,  cold,  cooked  potatoes  may  be  fried  by  the  same  redpe,  only  slice  them 
a  little  thicker. 

R&mark. — ^Boiled  or  steamed  potatoes  chopped  up  or  sliced  while  they  are 
yet  warm  never  fry  so  successfully  as  when  cold. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOESr(Kentucky  Style-) 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes  thin,  the  same  as  for  frying.  Butter  an  earthen 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  a  bit  of 
onion  chopped  fine,  if  liked;  sprinkle  a  little  flour.  Now  put  another  layer  of 
potatoes  and  the  seasoning.  Continue  in  this  way  till  the  dish  is  filled.  Just 
before  putting  into  the  oven,  pour  a  quart  of  hot  milk  over.  Bake  three  quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  cooked  the  same.  It  requires  less  time  to  bake 
them;  they  are  delicious  either  way.    If  the  onion  is  disliked,  it  can  be  omitted. 

STEAMED  POTATOES. 

This  mode  of  cooking  potatoes  is  now  much  in  vogue,  particularly  where 
they  are  wanted  on  a  large  scale,  it  being  so  very  convenient.  Pare  the  potatoes, 
throw  them  into  cold  water  as  they  are  peeled,  then  put  them  in  a  steamer. 
Place  the  steamer  over  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  the  potatoes 
from  twenty  to  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  and  sort.  When  the  fork 
goes  easily  through  them,  they  are  done;  then  take  them  up,  dish,  and  serve 
veiy  quickly. 

POTATO  SNOW. 

Choose  some  mealy  potatoes  that  will  boil  exceedingly  white;  pare  them,  and 
cook  them  well,  but  not  so  as  to  be  watery;  drain  them,  and  mash  and  season 
them  welL  Put  in  the  sauce-pan  in  which  they  were  dressed,  so  as  to  keep 
them  as  hot  as  possible;  then  press  them  through  a  wire  sieve  into  the  dish  in 
which  they  are  to  be  served;  strew  a  Uttle  fine  salt  upon  them  previous  to  send- 
,ing  them  to  table:  French  cooks  also  add  a  small  quantity  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar  while  they  are  being  mashed. 

HASTY  COOKED  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  peel  some  potatoes;  cut  them  into  slices  of  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  in  thickness;  throw  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  and,  if  of  good  quality, 
they  will  be  done  in  about  ten  minutes. 

Strain  off  the  water,  put  the  potatoes  into  a  hot  dish,  chop  them  slightly,  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  few  small  pieces  of  fresh  butter,  and  serve  without  loss  of  time. 


VEGETABLES.  1 73 

FAVORITE  WARMED  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  should  be  boiled  wluiU  with  tJie  skins  on  in  plenty  of  water,  well 
salted,  and  are  much  better  for  being  boiled  the  day  before  needed.  Care  should 
be  taken  that  they  are  not  over  cooked-  Strip  off  the  skins  (not  pare  them  with 
a  knife),  and  slice  them  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  them  in  a 
chopping-bowl  and  sprinkle  over  them  sufficient  salt  and  pepper  to  season  them 
well;  chop  them  all  one  way,  then  turn  the  chopping-bowl  half  way  around, 
and  chop  across  them,  cutting  them  into  little  square  pieces,  the  shape  of  dice. 
About  twenty-five  minutes  before  serving  time,  place  on  the  stove  a  sauce-pan 
(or  any  suitable  dish)  containing  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  when  it 
begins  to  melt  and  run  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  put  in  a  cup  of  rich  sweet 
milk.  When  this  boils  up,  put  in  the  chopped  potatoes;  there  should  be  about 
a  quart  of  them;  stir  them  a  little  so  that  they  become  moistened  through  with 
the  milk;  then  cover  and  place  them  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  in  a  moderate 
oven,  where  they  will  heat  through  gradually.  When  heated  through  stir  care- 
fully from  the  bottom  with  a  spoon,  and  cover  tightly  again.  Keep  hot  tmtil 
ready  to  serve.    Baked  potatoes  are  very  good  warmed  in  this  manner. 

CRISP  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  raw  potatoes  into  shavings,  cubes,  or  any  small  shape;  throw  them, 
a  few  at  a  time,  into  boiling  fat,  and  toss  them  about  with  a  knife  xmtil  they 
are  a  uniform  Ught  brown;  drain  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fat  is  never 
hot  enough  while  bubbling — ^when  it  is  ready  it  is  still  and  smoking,  but  should 
never  bum. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Take  eight  or  ten  good-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes,  slice  them  endwise,  then 

crosswise,  making  them  hke  dice  in  small  squares.    When  you  are  ready  to  cook 

them,  heat  some  butter  or  good  drippings  in  a  frying-pan;  fry  in  it  one  small 

onion  (chopped  fine)  until  it  begins  to  change  color,  and  look  yellow.    Now  put 

in  yom:  potatoes,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well  and  cook  about 

five  minutes,  taking  care  that  you  do  not  break  them.     Tfiey  must  not  broum. 

Just  before  taking  up,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.    Drain  dry  by 

shaking  in  a  heated  colander.    Serve  very  hot. 

— Delmonico.^ 

POTATO  FILLETS. 

Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  thin;  cut  them  if  you  like  in  small  fillets,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  square,  and  as  long  as  the  potato  will  admit;  keep  them  in 


1 74  VEGETABLES. 

cold  water  until  wanted,  then  drop  them  into  boiling  lard;  when  nearly  done, 
take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  them,  boil  up  the  lard  again,  drop  the 
potatoes  back  and  fry  till  done;  this  operation  causes  the  fillets  to  swell  up 
and  puff. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.    No.  i. 

Wash,  peel  and  put  four  large  potatoes  in  cold  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  set  them  oyer  a  brisk  fire;  when  they  are  done  pour  off  all  the  water  and 
mash  them.  Take  another  sauce-pan^  and  put  in  it  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
and  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg;  put  it  over  a  brisk  fire;  as  soon  as 
the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  the  potatoes  into  it,  and  stir  them  very  fast  with 
a  wooden  spoon;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  take  them  from  the  fire  and  put  them 
on  a  dish.  Take  a  tablespoonf  ul  and  roll  it  in  a  dean  towel,  making  it  oval  in 
shape;  dip  it  in  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and  drop  it  in  hot 
drippings  or  lard.  Proceed  in  this  manner  till  all  the  potato  is  used,  four 
potatoes  making  six  croquettes.  Fry  them  a  light  brown  all  ovel:,  turoing  them 
gently  as  may  be  necessary.  When  they  are  done,  lay  them  on  brown  paper  or 
a  hair  sieve,  to  drain  all  fat  off;  then  serve  on  a  napkin. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.    No.  2. 

Take  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potato,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper 
and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  work  all 
together  thoroughly;  make  it  into  small  balls  slightly  flattened,  dip  them  in  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  roll  either  in  flour  or  cracker-crumbs;  fry  the 
same  as  fish-balls. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DELMONICO. 

Cut  the  potatoes  with  a  vegetable  cutter  into  small  balls  about  the  size  of  a 
marble;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  plenty  of  butter,  and  a  good  sprinkling 
of  salt;  keep  the  sauce-pan  covered,  and  shake  occasionally  until  they  are  quite 
done,  which  will  be  in  about  an  hour. 

FRIED  POTATOES  WITH  EGGS. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  fry  in  good  butter  until  brown;  beat  up  one  or 
two  eggs,  and  stir  into  them  just  as  you  dish  them  for  the  table;  do  not  leave 
them  a  moment  on  the  fire  after  the  ^gs  are  in,  for  if  they  harden  they  are  not 
half  so  nice;  one  egg  is  enough  for  three  or  four  persons,  unless  they  are  very 
fond  of  potatoes;  if  they  are,  have  plenty,  and  put  in  two. 


VEGETABLES,  1 75 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Potatoes  are  either  baked  in  their  jackets  or  peeled;  in  either  case  they  should 
not  be  exposed  to  a  fierce  heat,  which  is  wasteful,  inasmuch  as  thereby  a  great 
deal  of  vegetable  is  scorched  and  rendered  uneatable.  They  should  be  fre- 
quently turned  while  being  baked,  and  kept  from  touching  each  other  in  the 
oven  or  dish.  When  done  in  their  skins,  be  particular  to  wash  and  brush  them 
before  baking  them.  If  convenient,  they  may  be  baked  in  wood-ashes,  or  in  a 
Dutch  oven  in  front  of  the  fire.  When  pared  they  should  be  baked  in  a  dish, 
and  fat  of  some  kind  added  to  prevent  their  outsides  from  becoming  burnt;  they 
are  ordinarily  baked  thus  as  an  accessory  to  baked  meat. 

Never  serve  potatoes,  boiled  or  baked  whole,  in  a  closely  covered  dish.  They 
become  sodden  and  clammy.  Cover  with  a  folded  napkin  that  allows  the  steam 
to  escape,  or  absorbs  the  moisture.  They  should  be  served  promptly  when  done, 
and  require  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  one  hour  to  bskke  them,  if  of  a 
good  size. 

BROWNED  POTATOES  WITH  A  ROAST.    No.  i. 

About  three  quarters  of  an  hour  before  taking  up  your  roasts,  peel  middling- 
sized  potatoes,  boil  them  until  partly  done,  then  arrange  them  in  the  roasting- 
pan  aroimd  the  roast,  basting  them  with  the  drippings  at  the  same  time  you  do 
the  meat,  browning  then  evenly.  Serve  hot  with  the  meat.  Many  cooks  partly 
boil  the  potatoes  before  putting  around  the  roast.  "New  potatoes  are  very  good 
cooked  around  a  roast. 

BROWNED  POTATOES  WITH  A  ROAST.    No.  2. 

Peel,  cook  and  mash  the  required  quantity,  adding  while  hot  a  httle  chopped 
onion,  pepper  and  salt;  form  it  into  smaU  oval  balls  and  dredge  them  with  flour; 
then  place  around  the  meat,  about  twenty  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from  the 
oven.    When  nicely  browned,  drain  dry  and  serve  hot  with  the  meat. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

Boiled,  steamed  and  baked  the  same  as  Irish  potatoes;  generally  cooked  with 
their  jackets  on.  Cold  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  across  or  lengthwise, 
and  fried  as  common  potatoes;  or  may  be  cut  in  half  and  served  cold. 

Boiled  sweet  potatoes  are  very  nice.  Boil  until  partly  done,  peel  them  and 
bake  brown,  basting  them  with  butter  or  beef  drippings  several  times.  Served 
hot.    They  should  be  a  nice  brown. 


176  VEGETABLES. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  scrape  them,  split  them  lengthwise.  Steam  or  boil  them  mitH 
nearly  done.  Drain,  and  put  them  in  a  baking-dish,  placing  over  them  lumps 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar»  and  bake  in  the  oyen  to 
a  nice  brown. 

Hubbard  squash  is  nice  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

ONIONS  BOILED. 

The  white  silyer-skins  are  the  best  species.  To  boil  them  peel  off  the  outside, 
cut  off  the  ends,  put  them  into  cold  water  and  into  a  stew-pan,  and  let  them  scald 
two  minutes;  then  turn  off  that  water,  pour  on  cold  water,  salted  a  little,  and 
boil  slowly  till  tender,  which  will  be  in  thirty  or  forty  minutes^  according  to  their 
size;  when  done  drain  them  quite  dry,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them, 
sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  hot. 

An  excellent  way  to  peel  onions  so  as  not  to  affect  the  eyes  is  to  take  a  pan 
fvU  of  water,  and  hold  and  peel  them  under  the  water. 

ONIONS  STEWED. 

Cook  the  same  as  boiled  onions,  and  when  quite  done  turn  off  all  the  water; 
add  a  teacupful  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  to  a  cream;  let  all  boil  up  once  and  serve  in 
a  vegetable  dish,  hot. 

ONIONS    BAKED. 

Use  the  large  Spanish  onion,  as  best  for  this  purpose;  wash  them  dean,  but 
do  not  peel,  and  put  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  slightly  salted  water;  boil  an  hour, 
replacing  the  water  with  more  boiling  hot  as  it  evaporates;  turn  off  the  water, 
and  lay  the  onions  on  a  doth  to  dry  them  well;  roll  each  one  in  a  piece  of  but- 
tered tissue  paper,  twisting  it  at  the  top  to  keep  it  on,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
about  an  horn:,  or  until  tender  all  through;  peel  them;  place  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
brown  slightly,  basting  well  with  butter  for  fifteen  minutes;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  pour  some  mdted  butter  over  them. 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel,  slice,  and  fry  them  brown  in  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  lard  or  nice 
drippings;  cover  until  partly  soft,  remove  the  cover  and  brown  them;  salt  and 
pepper. 


VEGETABLES.  1 77 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS. 

Take  eight  or  ten  onions  of  good  size,  slice  them,  and  boil  until  tender.  Lay 
them  in  a  baking-dish,  put  in  bread-crumbs,  butter  in  small  bits,  pepper  and  salt, 
between  each  layer  until  the  dish  is  full,  putting  bread-crumbs  last;  add  milk  or 
cream  until  full.    Bake  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour 

A  little  onion  is  not  an  injurious  article  of  food,  as  many  believe.  A  judicious 
use  of  plants  of  the  onion  family  is  quite  as  important  a  factor  in  successful 
cookery  as  salt  and  pepper.  When  carefully  concealed  by  manipulation  in  food, 
it  affords  zest  and  enjoyment  to  many  who  could  not  otherwise  taste  of  it  were 
its  presence  known.  A  great  many  successful  compounds  derive  their  excellence 
from  the  partly  concealed  flavor  of  the  onion,  which  imparts  a  delicate  appetiz- 
ing aroma  highly  prized  by  epicures. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

When  cleaned  and  washed,  drop  them  into  boiling  water,  into  which  you 
have  put  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  floin:,  or  a  slice  of  bread;  boil  till  tender;  take 
off,  drain,  and  dish  them;  serve  with  a  sauce  spread  over,  and  made  with  melted 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  chopped  parsley,  and  vinegar. 

Another  way  is  to  make  a  white  sauce  (see  Sauces),  and  when  the  cauli- 
flowers are  dished  as  above,  turn  the  white  sauce  over,  and  serve  warm.  They 
may  also  be  served  in  the  same  way  with  a  milk,  cream,  or  tomato  sauce,  or 
with  brown  butter. 

It  is  a  very  good  plan  to  loosen  the  leaves  of  a  head  of  cauliflower,  and  let  lie, 
the  top  downward  in  a  pan  of  cold  salt  water,  to  remove  any  insects  that  might 
be  hidden  between  them. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil  the  cauliflowers  till  about  half  done.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
with  two  yolks  of  eggs,  then  add  water  enough  to  make  a  rather  thin  paste; 
add  salt  to  taste;  the  two  whites  are  beaten  till  stiff,  and  then  mixed  with  the 
yolks,  flour  and  water.  Dip  each  branch  of  the  cauliflowers  into  the  mixture, 
and  fxy  them  in  hot  fat.  When  done,  take  them  off  with  a  skimmer,  turn  into 
a  colander,  dust  salt  all  over,  and  serve  warm.  Asparagus,  celery,  egg-plant^ 
oyster  plant  are  all  fine  when  fried  in  this  manner. 

CABBAGE,  BOILED. 

Great  care  is  requisite  in  cleaning  a  cabbage  for  boiling,  as  it  frequently 
harbors  nrunerous  insects.    The  large  drum-head  cabbage  requires  an  hour  to 

12 


1 78  VEGETABLES 

boil;  the  green  savory  cabbage  will  boil  in  twenty  minutes.  Add  considerable 
salt  to  the  water  when  boiling.  Do  not  let  a  cabbage  boil  too  long, — ^by  a  long 
boiling  it  becomes  watery.  Remove  it  from  the  water  into  a  colander  to  drain, 
and  serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  butter  poured  over  it. 

Bed  cabbage  is  used  for  slaw,  as  is  also  the  white  winter  cabbage.  For  direc- 
tions to  prepare  these  varieties,  see  articles  Slaw  and  Sour-Crout. 

CABBAGE  WITH  CREAM. 

Bemove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  sohd,  small-sized  head  of  cabbage,  and  cut 
the  remainder  as  fine  as  for  slaw.  Have  on  the  fire  a  spider  or  deep  skillet,  and 
when  it  is  hot  put  in  the  cut  cabbage,  pouring  over  it  right  away  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Cover  closely,  and  allow  it  to  cook  rapidly  for  ten  minutes.  Drain 
off  the  water,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  or  part  milk  and  cream;  when 
it  boils,  stir  in  a  large  teaspoonf  ul  of  either  wheat  or  rice  flour,  moistened  with 
milk;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  serve.  Those  who 
find  slaw  and  other  dishes  prepared  from  cabbage  indigestible,  will  not  complain 
of  this. 

STEAMED  CABBAGE. 

Take  a  sound,  solid  cabbage,  and  with  a  large  sharp  knife  shave  it  very  finely. 
Put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  pour  in  half  a  teacupful  of  water  or  just  enough  to  keep 
it  from  burning;  cover  it  very  tightly,  so  as  to  confine  the  steam;  watch  it 
closely,  add  a  little  water  now  and  then,  until  it  begins  to  be  tender;  then  put 
into  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  dish  it  hot.  If 
you  prefer  to  give  it  a  tart  taste,  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  a  third  of 
a  cup  of  good  vinegar. 

LADIES'  CABBAGE. 

Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the  water  then  for  more 
from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  When  tender,  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly 
cold.  Chop  fine  and  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stir  all  well  together,  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  brown.  Serve  very  hot.  This  dish  resembles 
cauliflower  and  is  very  digestible  and  palatable. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

Place  in  a  frying-pan  an  ounce  of  butter  and  heat  it  boiling  hot.  Then 
take  cold  boiled  cabbage  chopped  fine,  or  cabbage  hot,  cooked  the  same  as 
steamed  cabbage,  put  it  into  the  hot  butter  and  fry  a  light  brown,  adding  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.    "Very  good. 


VEGETABLES.  1 79 

FRENCH  WAY  OF  COOKING  CABBAGE. 
Chop  cold  boiled  white  cabbage  and  let  it  drain  till  perfectly  dry;  stir  in  some 
melted  butter  to  taste;  pepper,  salt  and  fom*  tablespoonfuls  of  cream;  after  it  is 
heated  through  add  two  well-beaten  eggs;  then  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered 
frying-pan,  stirring  imtil  it  is  very  hot  and  becomes  a  delicate  brown  on  the 
under  side.  Place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pan,  which  must  be  reversed  when  turned 
out  to  be  served. 

SOUR-CROUT. 

Barrels  having  held  wine  or  vinegar  are  used  to  prepare  sour-crout  in.  It  is 
better,  however,  to  have  a  special  barrel  for  the  purpose.  Strasburg,  as  well  as 
all  Alsace,  has  a  well-acquired  fame  for  preparing  the  cabbages.  They  slice  very 
white  and  firm  cabbages  in  fine  shreds  with  a  machine  made  for  the  purpose. 
At  the  bottom  of  a  small  barrel  they  place  a  layer  of  coarse  salt,  and  alternately 
layers  of  cabbage  and  salt,  being  careful  to  have  one  of  salt  on  the  top.  As  each 
layer  of  cabbage  is  added,  it  must  be  pressed  down  by  a  large  and  heavy  pestle, 
and  fresh  layers  are  added  as  soon  as  the  juice  floats  on  the  surface.  The  cab- 
bage must  be  seasoned  with  a  few  grains  of  coriander,  juniper  berries,  etc. 
When  the  barrel  is  full  it  must  be  put  in  a  dry  cellar,  covered  with  a  doth, 
under  a  p^mk,  and  on  this  heavy  weights  are  placed.  At  the  end  of  a  few  days 
it  will  begin  to  ferment,  during  which  time  the  pickle  must  be  drawn  off  and 
replaced  by  fresh,  until  the  liquor  becomes  dear.  This  should  be  done  every- 
day. Benew  the  cloth  and  wash  the  cover,  put  the  weights  back,  and  let  stand 
for  a  month.  By  that  time  the  somr-crout  will  be  ready  for  use.  Care  must 
be  taken  to  let  the  least  possible  air  enter  the  soiu--crout,  and  to  have  the  cover 
perfectly  dean.  Each  time  the  barrel  has  to  be  opened  it  must  be  properly 
dosed  again.    These  precautions  must  not  be  neglected. 

This  is  often  fried  in  the  same  manner  as  fried  cabbage,  excepting  it  is  first 
boOed  until  soft  in  just  water  enough  to  cook  it,  then  fry  and  add  vinegar. 

TO  BOIL  RICE. 

Pick  over  the  rice  carefully,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  rubbing  it  between  tho 
hands,  rinsing  it  in  several  waters,  then  let  it  remain  in  cold  water  xmtil  ready 
to  be  cooked.  Have  a  sauce-pan  of  water  slightly  salted;  when  it  is  boiling 
hard,  pour  oflf  the  cold  water  from  the  rice,  and  sprinkle  it  in  the  boiling  water 
by  degrees,  so  as  to  keep  the  partides  separated.  Boil  it  steadily  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  take  it  oflf  from  the  fire,  and  drain  oflf  all  the  water.  Place  the 
sauce-pan  with  the  hd  partly  oflf,  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  where  it  is  only 


l8o  VEGETABLES. 

moderately  warm,  to  allow  the  rice  to  dry.  The  moisture  will  pass  off  and  each 
grain  of  rice  will  be  separated,  so  that  if  shaken  the  grains  will  fall  apart.  This 
is  the  true  way  of  serving  rice  as  a  vegetable,  and  is  the  mode  of  cooking  it  in 
the  southern  States  where  it  is  raised. 

PARSNIPS,  BOILED. 

Wash,  scrape  and  split  them.  Put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  add  a 
little  salt,  and  boil  them  till  quite  tender,  which  wiQ  be  in  from  two  to  three 
hours  according  to  their  size.  Dry  them  in  a  doth  when  done  and  pour  melted 
butter  or  white  sauce  (see  Sauces)  over  them  in  the  dish.  Serve  them  up  with 
any  sort  of  boiled  meat  or  with  salt  cod. 

Parsnips  are  very  good  baked  or  stewed  with  meat. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  tender  in  a  little  hot  water  salted;  scrape,  cut  into  long  sUces,  dredge 
with  flour ;  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping,  or  in  butter  and  lard  mixed;  fry  quite 
brown.    Drain  off  fat  and  serve. 

Parsnips  may  be  boiled  and  mashed  the  same  as  potatoes. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS, 

After  washing  and  scraping  the  parsnips  slice  them  about  half  of  an  inch 
thick.    Put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  containing  just  enough  to 

m 

barely  cook  them;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
cover  closely.  Stew  them  until  the  water  has  cooked  away,  watching  carefully 
and  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning,  until  they  are  soft.  When  they  are  done 
they  will  be  of  a  creamy  light  straw  color  and  deUdously  sweety  retaining  all  the 
goodness  of  the  vegetable. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Boil  four  or  five  parsnips;  when  tender  take  off  the  skin  and  mash  them  fine; 
add  to  them  a  teaspoonful  of  wheat  fiour  and  a  beaten  egg;  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard  or  beef  drippings  in  a  frying-pan  over  the  fire,  add  to  it  a  saltspoonf ul  of 
salt;  when  boiling  hot  put  in  the  parsnips;  make  it  in  small  cakes  with  a  spoon; 
when  one  side  is  a  deUcate  brown  turn  the  other;  when  both  are  done  take  them 
on  a  dish,  put  a  very  little  of  the  fat  in  which  they  were  fried  over  and  serve  hot. 
These  resemble  very  nearly  the  taste  of  the  salsify  or  oyster  plant,  and  will  gen- 
erally be  preferred. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 
Boil  tender,  scrape,  and  slice  lengthwise.    Put  over  the  fire  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  minced  parsley.    Shake  imtil 


VEGETABLES.  l8l 

the  mixture  boils.  Dish  the  parsnips,  add  to  the  sauce  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk,  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  quarter  of  a  spoonful  of  flour.  Boil 
once^  and  pour  over  the  parsnips. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  a  dozen  sound  ripe  tomatoes;  let  them  remain  for  a 
few  moments;  then  peel  off  the  skins,  slice  them,  and  put  them  over  the 
fire  in  a  weU-lined  tin  or  granite  ware  sauce-pan.  Stew  them  about 
twenty  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  let  them  stew  fifteen  minutes  longer;  and  serve  hot.  Some  prefer  to 
thicken  tomatoes  with  a  little  grated  bread,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  and 
others  who  like  the  flavor  of  onion  chop  up  one  and  add  while  stewing;  then 
again  some  add  as  much  green  corn  as  there  are  tomatoes. 

TO  PEEL  TOMATOES. 

Put  the  tomatoes  into  a  frying-basket,  and  plunge  them  into  hot  water  for 
three  or  four  minutes.  Drain  and  peel.  Another  way  is  to  place  them  in  a  flat 
baking-tin  and  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  five  minutes;  this  loosens  the  skins 
so  that  they  readily  sUp  off. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Butter  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish.  Put  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs 
in  the  bottom;  on  them  put  a  layer  of  sUced  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  some  bits  of  butter,  and  a  very  littU  white  sugar.  Then  repeat  with  another 
layer  of  crumbs,  another  of  tomato,  and  seasoning  until  full,  having  the  top  layer 
of  sUces  of  tomato,  with  bits  of  butter  on  each.  Bake  covered  until  well  cooked 
through;  remove  the  cover  and  brown  quickly. 

STUFFED  BAKED  TOMATOES. 

From  the  blossom-end  of  a  dozen  tomatoes — smooth,  ripe  and  solid — cut  a 
thin  slice,  and  with  a  small  spoon  scoop  out  the  pulp  without  breaking  the  rind 
surrounding  it;  chop  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  a  good-sized  onion  finely, 
and  mix  with  them  fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  pulp;  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  sugar,  and  add  a  cup  of  sweet  cream;  when  all  is  well  mixed,  fill  the 
tomato  shells,  replace  the  slices,  and  place  the  tomatoes  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  cut  ends  up,  and  put  in  the  pan  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning; 
drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato,  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  so,  till  well 
done;  place  another  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  serve  in  same  dish.    Very  fine. 

Another  stuffing  which  is  considered  quite  fine.    Cut  a  sUce  from  the  stem 


1 82  VEGETABLES. 

of  each  and  scoop  out  the  soft  pulp«  Mince  one  small  onion  and  fry  it  slightly; 
add  a  gill  of  hot  water,  the  tomato  pulp,  and  two  ounces  of  cold  veal  or  chicken 
chopped  fine,  simmer  slowly,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  into  the 
pan  cracker-dust  or  bread-crumbs  enough  to  absorb  the  moisture;  take  off  from 
the  fire  and  let  it  cool;  stuff  the  tomatoes  with  this  mass,  sprinkle  dry  crumbs 
oyer  the  top;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  to  the  top  of  each  and  bake  until  slightly 
browned  on  top. 

BAKED  TOMATOES,  (Plain.) 

Peel  and  shoe  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  place  in  layers  in  a  pudding  dish, 
seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  very  httle  white  sugar. 
Cover  with  a  Ud  or  large  plate,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Bemove  the  Ud  and 
brown  for  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before  taking  from  the  oven,  pour  over  the 
top  three  or  four  tablespoonf uls  of  whipped  cream  with  melted  butter. 

TO  PREPARE  TOMATOES,  (Raw.) 

Carefully  remove  the  peelings.  Only  perfectly  ripe  tomatoes  should  ever  be 
eaten  raw,  and  if  ripe  the  skins  easily  peel  off.  Scalding  injures  the  flavor. 
SUce  thin,  and  sprinkle  generously  with  salt,  more  sparingly  with  black  pepper, 
and  to  a  dish  holding  one  quart,  add  a  light  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar  to  give  a 
piquant  zest  to  the  whole.  Lastly,  add  a  gill  of  best  cider  vinegar;  although,  if 
you  would  have  a  dish  yet  better  suited  to  please  an  epicurean  palate,  you  may 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  sweet  cream. 

FRIED  AND  BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  firm,  large,  ripe  tomatoes  into  thick  shoes,  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  well  with  fiour,  or  roll  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  them  brown  on  both  sides  evenly,  in  hot  butter  and 
lard  mixed.  Or,  prepare  them  the  same  as  for  frying,  broiling  on  a  well- 
greased  gridiron,  seasoning  afterward  the  same  as  beef  streak.  A  good  accom- 
paniment to  steak.  Or,  having  prepared  the  following  sauce,  a  pint  of  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  fiour  and  one  beaten  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  a  very  Uttle  mace; 
cream  an  ounce  of  butter,  whisk  inte  it  the  milk  and  let  it  simmer  imtO  it 
thickens;  pour  the  sauce  on  a  hot  side-dish  and  arrange  the  tomatoes  in  the 
centre. 

SCRAMBLED  TOMATOES. 

Bemove  the  skins  from  a  dozen  tomatoes;  cut  them  up  in  a  sauce-pan;  add  a 
little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  sufficiently  boiled,  beat  up  five  or  six  ^ggs. 


VEGETABLES.  1 83 

and  just  before  you  serve  turn  them  into  the  sauce-pan  with  the  tomatoes,  and 
stir  one  way  for  two  minutes,  allowing  them  time  to  be  done  thoroughly. 

CUCUMBER  A  LA  CR£mE. 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices  (lengthwise)  some  fine  cucumbers.  Boil  them  until 
soft,  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  wifch  delicate  cream  sauce. 

For  Tomato  Salad,  see  "  Salads,"  also  for  Eaw  Cucmnbers, 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Pare  them  and  cut  lengthwise  in  very  thick  sUces;  wipe  them  dry  with  a 
cloth;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  lard  and 
butter,  a  td^blespoonf ul  of  each,  mixed.    Brown  both  sides  and  serve  warm. 

GREEN  CORN,  BOILED. 

This  should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  it  is  gathered;  it  loses  its  sweetness 
in  a  few  hoTirs  and  must  be  artificially  supphed.  Strip  off  the  husks,  pick  out 
all  the  silk  and  put  it  in  boiling  water;  if  not  entirely  fresh,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  to  the  water,  but  no  salt;  boil  twenty  minutes,  fast,  and  serve;  or  you 
may  cut  it  from  the  cob,  put  in  plenty  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  and  serve  in  a 
covered  vegetable  dish.  The  com  is  much  sweeter  when  cooked  with  the  husks 
on,  but  requires  longer  time  to  boil.    Will  generally  boil  in  twenty  minutes. 

Green  com  left  over  from  dinner  makes  a  nice  breakfast  dish,  prepared  as 
follows:  Out  the  com  from  the  cob,  and  put  into  a  bowl  with  a  cup  of  milk  to 
every  cup  of  com,  a  half  cup  of  flour,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  Uttle  butter. 
Mix  well  into  a  thick  batter,  and  fry  in  small  cakes  in  very  hot  butter.  Serve 
with  plenty  of  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

This  is  a  Virginia  dish.  Scrape  the  substance  out  of  twelve  ears  of  tender, 
green,  uncooked  com  (it  is  better  scraped  than  grated,  as  you  do  not  get  those 

I  husky  particles  which  you  cannot  avoid  with  a  grater);  add  yolks  and  whites, 

beaten  separately,  of  four  eggs,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  sugar,  the  same  of  flour  mixed 

[  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small  quantity  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  one  pint  of 

^  milk.    Bake  about  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

I 

I  STEWED  CORN. 

i 

Take  a  dozen  ears  of  green  sweet  com,  very  tender  and  juicy;  cut  off  the 
kernels,  cutting  with  a  large  sharp  knife  from  the  top  of  the  cob  down;  then 
scrape  the  cob.    Put  the  com  into  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  with  just  enough 


1 84  VEGETABLES. 

water  to  make  it  cook  without  burning;  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  then  add  a 
teacupful  of  milk  or  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Boil  ten  minutes  longer,  and  dish  up  hot,  in  a  vegetable  dish.  The 
com  would  be  much  sweeter  if  the  scraped  cobs  were  boiled  first  in  the  water 
that  the  com  is  cooked  in. 

Many  like  com  cooked  in  this  manner,  putting  half  com  and  half  tomatoes; 
either  way  is  very  good. 

FRIED  CORN. 

Cut  the  com  off  the  cob,  taking  care  not  to  bring  off  any  of  the  husk  with 
it,  and  to  have  the  grains  as  separate  as  possible.  Fry  in  a  httle  butter— just 
enough  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  pan;  stir  very  often.  When  nicely 
browned,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  rich  cream.  Do  not  set  it  near  the 
stove  after  the  cream  is  added,  as  it  will  be  apt  to  turn.  This  makes  a  nice 
dinner  or  breakfast  dish. 

ROASTED  GREEN  CORN. 

Strip  off  all  the  husk  from  green  com,  and  roast  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bright 
fire  of  coals,  turning  it  as  one  side  is  done.  Or,  if  a  wood  fire  is  used,  make  a 
place  clean  in  front  of  the  fire,  lay  the  com  down,  turn  it  when  one  side  is  done; 
serve  with  salt  and  bmtter 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take  a  pint  of  fresh  shelled  lima  beans,  or  any  large  fresh  beans,  put  them 
in  a  pot  with  cold  water,  rather  more  than  will  cover  them.  Scrape  the  kernels 
from  twelve  ears  of  young  sweet  com; '  put  the  cobs  in  with  the  beans,  boiling 
from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Now  take  out  the  cobs  and  put  in  the 
scraped  com;  boil  again  fifteen  minutes,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  half  a  cup  of  cream.    Serve  hot. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT. 

Take  fresh,  purple  egg-plants  of  a  middling  size;  cut  them  in  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  soak  them  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  with  a  teaspoou- 
ful  of  salt  in  it.  Have  ready  some  cracker  or  bread-crumbs  and  one  beaten  ^gg; 
drain  off  the  water  from  the  slices,  lay  them  on  a  napkin,  dip  them  in  the 
crumbs  and  then  in  the  e^,  put  another  coat  of  crumbs  on  them,  and  fry  them 
in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  The  frying-pan  must  be  hot  before  the  slices  are  put 
in^ — they  will  fry  in  ten  minutes. 

You  may  pare  them  before  you  put  them  into  the  frying-pan,  or  you  may 


VEGETABLES.  185 

pull  the  skills  oflf  when  you  take  them  up.    You  must  not  remove  them  from 
the  water  until  you  are  ready  to  cook  them,  as  the  air  will  turn  them  black. 

STUFFED  EGG-PLANT. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  in  two;  scrape  out  all  the  inside  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan 
with  a  little  minced  ham;  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  soft;  drain  oflf  the 
water;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half 
a  minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper;  stuflf  each  half  of  the  hull  with  the  mixture; 
add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes 

Minced  veal  or  chicken  in  the  place  of  ham,  is  equally  as  good,  and  many 
prefer  it. 

STRING  BEANS. 

Break  oflf  the  end  that  grew  to  the  vine,  drawing  oflf  at  the  same  time  the 
string  upon  the  edge;  repeat  the  same  process  from  the  other  end;  cut  them 
with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long,  and  boil  them  in  just  enough 
water  to  c(yveT  them.  They  usually  require  one  hour's  boiling;  but  this  depends 
uix>n  their  age  and  freshness.  After  they  have  boiled  until  tender,  and  the 
water  boiled  nearly  outy  add  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
half  a  cup  of  cream;  if  you  have  not  the  cream,  add  more  butter. 

Many  prefer  to  drain  them  before  adding  the  seasoning;  in  that  case  they 
lose  the  real  goodness  of  the  vegetable. 

LIMA  AND  KIDNEY  BEANS. 

These  beans  should  be  put  into  boiling  water,  a  little  more  than  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  boiled  till  tender— from  half  an  hour  to  two  hours;  serve  with 
butter  and  salt  upon  them. 

These  beans  are  in  season  from  the  last  of  July  to  the  last  of  September. 
There  ate  several  other  varieties  of  beans,  used  as  suiomer  vegetables,  which 
are  cooked  as  above. 

For  Baked  Beans,  see  "  Pork  and  Beans." 


This  is  stewed  the  same  as  green  com,  by  boiling,  adding  cream,  butter,  salt 
and  pepper. 

STEWED  SALSIFY  OR  OYSTER  PLANT. 

Wash  the  roots  and  scrape  oflf  their  skins,  throwing  them,  as  you  do  so,  into 
cold  water,  for  exposure  to  the  air  causes  them  to  immediately  turn  dark.  Then 
cut  crosswise  into  Uttle  thin  slices;  throw  into  fresh  water,  enough  to  cover;  add 


1 86  VEGETABLES. 

a  little  salt,  and  stew  in  a  covered  vessel  until  tender,  or  about  one  hour.    Pour 
off  a  little  of  the  water,  add  a  small  lump  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  and  a  gill  of 
sweet  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  fiour  stirred  to  a  paste.    Boil  up  and  serve  hot. 
Salsify  may  be  simply  boiled,  and  melted  butter  turned  over  them. 

FRIED  SALSIFY. 

Stew  the  salsify  as  usual  till  very  tender;  then  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  or  a 
potato  jammer,  mash  it  very  fine.  Beat  up  an  egg,  add  a  teacupful  of  TnilTr^  a 
little  flour,  butter  and  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt.  Make  into  little  cakes,  and 
fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling  lard,  first  rolling  in  beaten  egg  and  then  flour. 

BEETS  BOILED. 
Select  small-sized,  smooth  roots.  They  should  be  carefully  washed,  but  not 
cut  before  boiUng,  as  the  juice  will  escape  and  the  sweetness  of  the  vegetable  be 
impaired,  leaving  it  white  and  hard.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them 
until  tender;  which  requires  often  from  one  to  two  homrs.  Do  not  probe  them, 
but  press  them  with  the  finger  to  ascertain  if  they  are  suflidently  done.  When 
satisfied  of  this,  take  them  up,  and  put  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  slip 
off  the  outside.  Cut  them  into  thin  slices,  and  while  hot  season  with  butter, 
salt,  a  Uttle  pepper  and  very  sharp  vinegar. 

BAKED  BEETS. 

Beets  retain  their  sugary,  delicate  flavor  to  perfection  if  they  are  baked 
instead  of  boiled.  Turn  them  frequently  while  in  the  oven^  using  a  knife,  as 
the  fork  allows  the  juice  to  run  out.  When  done  remove  the  skin,  and  serve, 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  on  the  slices. 

STEWED  BEETS. 
Boil  them  first,  and  then  scrape  and  slice  them.    Put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  some  boiled  onion  and  parsley  chopped  fine, 
and  a  little  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.    Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  beets 
stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

OKRA. 

This  grows  in  the  shape  of  pods,  and  is  of  a  gelatinous  character,  much  used 
for  soup,  and  is  also  pickled;  it  may  be  boiled  as  follows.  Put  the  young  and 
tender  pods  of  long  white  okra  in  salted  boiling  water  in  granite,  porcelain  or  a 
tin-lined  saucepan— as  contact  with  iron  will  discolor  it;  boil  fifteen  minutes; 
remove  the  stems,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  if  preferred. 


VEGETABLES.  \Z^ 

V 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape  the  stems  of  the  asparagus  lightly,  but  very  clean;  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  and  when  they  are  all  scraped  and  very  clean,  tie  them  in  bunches 
of  equal  size;  cut  the  large  ends  evenly,  that  the  stems  may  be  all  of  the  same 
length,  and  put  the  asparagus  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  weU  salted.  While 
it  is  boiling,  cut  several  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  pare  off  the  crust,  and 
toast  it  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides.  When  the  stalks  of  the  asparagus  are 
tender,  (it  will  usually  cook  in  twenty  to  forty  minutes),  lift  it  out  directly,  or  it 
wiU  lose  both  its  color  and  flavor,  and  wiU  also  be  liable  to  break;  dip  the  toast 
quickly  into  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  dish  the  vegetable  upon  it, 
the  heads  all  lying  one  way.    Pour  over  white  sauce,  or  melted  butter. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS. 

Boil  a  bunch  of  asparagus  twenty  minutes;  cut  off  the  tender  tops  and  lay 
them  in  a  deep  pie  plate,  buttering,  salting  and  peppering  well.  Beat  up  four 
eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk  or  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour 
evenly  over  the  asparagus  mixture.  Bake  eight  minutes  or  until  the  eggs  are 
set.    Very  good. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Shell  the  peas  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Put  in  boiling  water  just  enoi]^h  to 
cover  them  weU,  and  keep  them  from  burning;  boil  from  twenty  minutes  to 
half  an  hour,  when  the  liquor  should  be  nearly  boiled  out;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  good  allowance  of  butter;  serve  very  hot. 

This  is  a  very  much  better  way  than  cooking  in  a  larger  quantity  of  water, 
and  draining  off  the  hquor,  as  that  diminishes  the  sweetness,  and  much  of  the 
fine  flavor  of  the  peas  is  lost.  The  salt  should  never  be  put  in  the  peas  before 
they  are  tender,  unless  very  young,  as  it  tends  to  harden  them 

■ 

STEWED  GREEN  PEAS. 

Into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  put  two  or  three  pints  of  young  green  peas, 
and  when  nearly  done  and  tender,  drain  in  a  colander  dry;  then  melt  two 
ounces  of  butter  in  two  of  flour;  stir  well,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer;  should 
the  pods  be  quite  dean  and  fresh,  boil  them  first  in  the  water,  remove,  and  put 
in  the  peas.  The  Germans  prepare  a  very  palatable  dish  of  sweet  young  pods 
alone,  by  simply  stirring  in  a  Uttle  butter  with  some  savory  herbs. 


l88  VEGETABLES. 

SQUASHES,  OR  CYMBLINGS. 

The  green  or  summer  squash  is  best  when  the  outside  is  beginning  to  turn 
yellow,  as  it  is  then  less  watery  and  insipid  than  when  younger.  Wash  them, 
cut  them  into  pieces,  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Boil  them  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  or  till  quite  tender.  When  done,  drain  and  squeeze  them  well  till  you 
have  pressed  out  all  the  water;  mash  them  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Then  put  the  squash  thus  prepared  into  a  stew-i>an,  set  it  on  hot  coals,  and  stir 
it  very  frequently  till  it  becomes  dry.    Take  care  not  to  let  it  bum. 

Summer  squash  is  very  nice  steamed,  then  prepared  the  same  as  boiled. 

BOILED  WINTER  SQUASH. 
This  is  much  finer  than  the  summer  squash.  It  is  fit  to  eat  in  August,  and, 
in  a  dry  warm  place,  can  be  kept  well  all  winter.  The  color  is  a  yery  bright 
yellow.  Pare  it,  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  stew  it  slowly  till  quite 
soft,  in  a  very  little  water.  Afterwards  drain,  squeeze,  and  press  it  well;  then 
mash  it  with  a  very  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  They  will  boil  in  from  twenty 
to  forty  minutes. 

BAKED  WINTER  SQUASH. 

Cut  open  the  squash,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  without  paring  cut  it  up  into 
large  pieces;  put  the  pieces  on  tins  or  a  dripping-pan,  place  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven,  and  bake  about  an  hour.  When  done,  peel  and  mash  hke  mashed 
potatoes,  or  serre  the  pieces  hot  on  a  dish,  to  be  eaten  warm  with  butter  like 
sweet  potatoes.  It  retains  its  sweetness  much  better  baked  this  way  than  when 
boiled. 

VEGETABLE  HASH. 

Chop  rather  coarsely  the  remains  of  vegetables  left  from  a  boiled  dinner, 
such  as  cabbage,  parsnips,  potatoes,  etc.,  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  pepper; 
place  in  a  saucepan  or  frying-pan  over  the  fire;  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut;  when  it  begins  to  melt,  tip  the  dish  so  as  to  oil  the  bottom,  and 
around  the  sides;  then  put  in  the  chopped  vegetables;  pour  in  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  hot  water  from  the  tea-kettle;  cover  quickly  so  as  to  keep  in  the  steam. 
When  heated  thoroughly  take  off  the  cover  and  stir  occasionally  until  well 
cooked.    Serve  hot.    Persons  fond  of  vegetables  will  relish  this  dish  very  much. 

SPINACH. 
It  should  be  cooked  so  as  to  retain  its  bright-green  color,  and  not  sent  to 
table,  as  it  so  often  is,  of  a  dull-brown  or  olive  color;  to  retain  its  fresh  appear- 
ance, do  not  cover  the  vessel  while  it  is  cooking. 


VEGETABLES:  1 89 

Spinach  requires  dose  examination  and  pickings  as  insects  are  frequently 
found  among  it,  and  it  is  often  gritty.  Wash  it  through  three  or  four  waters. 
Then  drain  it  and  put  it  in  boiling  water.  Fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  is  gener- 
ally sufficient  time  to  boil  spinach.  Be  careful  to  remove  the  scum.  When  it 
is  quite  tender,  take  it  up,  and  drain  and  squeeze  it  well.  Chop  it  fine,  and  put 
it  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Set  it  on 
the  fire  and  let  it  stew  five  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  until  quite  dry. 
Turn  it  into  a  v^etable  dish,  shape  it  into  a  mound,  slice  some  hard-boiled  ^gs 

and  lay  around  the  top. 

GREENS. 

About  a  peck  of  greens  are  enough  for  a  mess  for  a  family  of  six,  such  as 
dandelions,  cowslips,  burdock,  chiccory  and  other  greens.  All  greens  should  be 
carefully  examined,  the  tough  ones  thrown  out,  then  be  thoroughly  washed 
through  several  waters  until  they  are  entirely  free  from  sand.  The  addition  of  a 
handful  of  salt  to  each  pan  of  water  used  in  washing  the  greens  will  free  them 
from  insects  and  worms,  especially,  if,  after  the  last  watering,  they  are  allowed 
to  stand  in  salted  water  for  a  half  hour  or  longer.  When  ready  to  boil  the 
greens,  put  them  into  a  large  pot  half  full  of  boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of 
salt,  and  boil  them  steadily  until  the  stalks  are  tender;  this  will  be  in  from  five 
to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  maturity  of  the  greens;  but  remember  that 
long-continued  boiling  wastes  the  tender  substances  of  the  leaves,  and  so 
diminishes  both  the  bulk  and  the  nourishment  of  the  dish;  for  this  reason  it  is 
best  to  cut  away  any  tough  stalks  before  beginning  to  cook  the  greens.  As  soon 
as  they  are  tender,  drain  them  in  a  colander,  chop  them  a  httie  and  return  them 
to  the  fire  long  enough  to  season  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  vinegar 
may  be  added  if  it  is  liked;  the  greens  should  be  served  as  soon  as  they  are  hot. 

All  kinds  of  greens  can  b^  cooked  in  this  manner. 

STEWED  CARROTS. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  and  divide  them  into  strips;  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them;  add  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  let  them 
boil  slowly  xmtil  tender;  then  drain  and  replace  them  in  the  pan,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  roUed  in  flour,  shake  over  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  then  add 
enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten  the  whole;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  hot. 

CARROTS  MASHED. 

Scrape  and  wash  them;  cook  them  tender  in  boiling  water  salted  slightly. 
Drain  weU  and  mash  them.  Work  in  a  good  piece  of  butter  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.    Heap  up  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve  hot. 


190  VEGETABLES. 

Carrots  are  also  good  simply  boiled  in  salted  water  and  dished  up  hot  with 
melted  butter  over  them. 

TURNIPS. 

Turnips  are  boiled  plain  with  or  without  meat,  also  mashed  like  potatoes,  and 
stewed  like  parsnips.  They  should  always  be  served  hot.  They  require  from 
forty  minutes  to  an  hour  to  cook. 

STEWED  PUMPKIN. 
See  '^  Stewed  Pumpkin  for  Pie."    Cook  the  same,  then  after  stewing,  season 
the  same  as  mashed  potatoes.    Pumpkin  is  good  baked  in  the  same  manner  as 
baked  winter  squash. 

STEWED  ENDIVE. 

Ingredients. — Six  heads  of  endive,  salt  and  water,  one  pint  of  broth,  thicken- 
ing of  butter  and  floin:,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  small  lump  of  sugar. 

Mode. — ^Wash  and  free  the  endive  thoroughly  from  insects,  remove  the  green 
part  of  the  leaves,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted.  Let  it  remain 
for  ten  minutes;  then  take  it  out,  drain  it  till  there  is  no  water  remaining,  and 
chop  it  very  fine.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  broth;  add  a  little  salt  and  a 
lump  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  endive  is  perfectly  tender.  When  done,  which 
may  be  ascertained  by  squeezing  a  piece  between  the  thinnb  and  finger,  add  a 
thickening  of  butter  and  fiour  and  the  lemon  juice;  let  the  sauce  boil  up,  and 
serve. 

Time. — Ten  minutes  to  boil,  five  minutes  to  simmer  in  the  broth. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare  them  the  same  as  for  stewing.  Place  them  in  a  baking-pan,  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  and  chopped  parsley. 
Cook  in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes,  baste  with  butter.  Arrange  on  a  dish  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  them.  Serve  with  sauce  made  by  beating  a  cup  of  cream, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  cayenne  pepper, 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sauce,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Put 
in  a  sauce-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  Stir  until  thick,  but  do  not  let  bo£L  Mush« 
rooms  are  very  nice  placed  on  shoes  of  weU-buttered  toast  when  set  into  the 
oven  to  bake.    They  cook  in  about  fifteen  minutes. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 
Time,  twenty-one  minutes.    Button  mushrooms;  salt  to  taste;  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  the  yolk  of  one  egg.    Choose 


VEGETABLES. 


191 


buttons  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  them  dean  and  white  with  a  wet  flannel;  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  Uttle  water,  and  let  them  stew  very  gently  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.  Add  salt  to  taste,  work  in  a  Uttle  flour  and  butter,  to  make  the 
liquor  about  as  thick  as  cream,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes.  When  you  are 
ready  to  dish  it  up,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  the  yolk  of  an  egg; 
stir  it  over  the  flre  for  a  minute,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  serve.  Stewed  but- 
ton mushrooms  are  very  nice,  either  in  fish  stews  or  ragouts,  or  served  apart  to 
eat  with  fish.  Another  way  of  doing  them  is  to  stew  them  in  milk  and  water 
(after  they  are  rubbed  white),  add  to  them  a  little  veal  gravy,  mace  and  salt,  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  cream  or  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

Mushrooms  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  the  recipes  for  oysters, 
either  stewed,  fried,  broiled,  or  as  a  soup.  They  are  also  used  to  flavor  sauces, 
catsups,  meat  gravies,  game  and  soups. 

CANNED  MUSHROOMS. 

Canned  mushrooms  may  be  served  with  good  effect  with  game  and  even 
with  beefsteak  if  prepared  in  this  way:  Open  the  can  and  poiu*  off  every  drop  of 
the  hquid  found  there;  let  the  mushrooms  drain,  then  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan 
with  a  Uttle  cream,  and  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  let  them  simmer  gently  for 
from  five  to  ten  minutes,  and  when  the  meat  is  on  the  platter  pour  the  mush- 
rooms over  it.  If  served  with  steak,  that  should  be  very  tender,  and  be  broiled, 
never  in  any  case  fried. 

MUSHROOMS  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Wash  and  wipe  free  from  grit  the  small  fresh  button  mushrooms.  Put  inta 
a  frying-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  very  best  butter.  Add  to  it  two  whole 
cloves,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When  hot, 
add  a  quart  of  the  small  mushrooms,  toss  them  about  in  the  butter  for  a  moment 
only,  then  put  them  in  jars;  fill  the  top  of  each  jar  with  an  inch  or  two  of  the 
butter  and  let  it  cooL  Keep  the  jars  in  a  cool  place,  and  when  the  butter  is 
quite  firm,  add  a  top  layer  of  salt.    Cover  to  keep  out  dust. 

The  best  mushrooms  grow  on  uplands,  or  in  high,  open  fields,  where  the  air 
ispinre. 

TRUFFLES. 

The  trufiSe  belongs  to  the  family  of  the  mushrooms;  they  are  used  principally 
in  this  country  as  a  condiment  for  boned  turkey  and  chicken,  scrambled  eggs, 
fillets  of  beef,  game  and  fish.  When  mixed  in  due  proportion,  they  add  a  pecu- 
liar zest  and  fiavor  to  sauces,  that  cannot  be  found  in  any  other  plant  in  the 
vegetable  kingdom. 


192  VEGETABLES. 

ITALIAN  STYLE  OF  DRESSING  TRUFFLES. 

Ten  tnifflee,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  salad-oil,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  one 
tablespoonf ul  of  minced  parsley,  a  very  little  finely  minoed  garlic,  two  blades  of 
pounded  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice. 

After  cleansing  and  brushing  the  truffles,  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  and  put 
them  in  a  baMng-dish,  on  a  seasoning  of  oil  or  butter,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  garlic 
and  mace,  in  the  above  proportion.  Bake  them  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  just 
before  serving,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  send  them  to  table  very  hot. 

TRUFFLES  AU  NATUREL. 

Select  some  fine  truffles;  cleanse  them,  by  washing  them  in  several  waters 
with  a  brush,  until  not  a  particle  of  sand  or  grit  remains  on  them;  wrap  each 
truffle  in  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  quite  an  hour;  take  off  the 
paper,  wipe  the  truffles,  and  serve  them  in  a  hot  napkin. 


rthaccaronl 

MACCARONI  X  LA  ITALIENNE. 

Divide  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  four-inch  pieces.  Simmer 
fifteen  minutes  in  plenty  of  boiling  water,  salted.  Drain.  Put  the  maccaroni 
into  a  sauce-pan  and  turn  over  it  a  strong  soup  stock,  enough  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Strew  over  it  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese;  when  the  cheese  is  melted,  dish. 
Put  alternate  layers  of  maccaroni  and  cheese;  then  turn  over  the  soup  stock  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

MACCARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  pieces  an  inch  or  two  long;  cook  it  in 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it  weU;  put  in  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  it 
boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  it  well,  and  then  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of 
a  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  upon  this  some  grated  cheese,  and  small  pieces  of 
butter,  a  bit  of  salt,  then  more  maccaroni,  and  so  on,  filling  the  dish;  sprinkle 
the  top  layer  with  a  thick  layer  of  cracker-crumbs.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cream  or  milk.  Set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  It  should 
be  nicely  browned  on  top.  Serve  in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  was  baked,  with 
a  dean  napkin  pinned  around  it. 


VEGETABLES.  1 93 

TIMBALE  OF  MACCARONL 

Break  in  very  short  lengths  small  maccaroni  (vermicelli,  spaghetti,  tagliarini). 
Let  it  be  rather  overdone;  dress  it  with  butter  and  grated  cheese;  then  work 
into  it  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  quantity.  Butter  and  bread-crumb  a  plain 
mold,  and  when  the  maccaroni  is  nearly  cold  fill  the  mold  with  it,  pressing  it 
well  down  and  leaving  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  into  which  place  a  well-flavored 
mince  of  meat,  poultry  or  game;  then  fill  up  the  mold  with  more  maccaroni, 
pressed  well  down.    Bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  turn  out  and  serve. 

MACCARONI  A  LA  CR£ME. 

Boil  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  in  plenty  of  hot  water,  salted,  until 
tender;  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it  boils  stir  into  it  a 
mixture  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream,  a  little  white  and  cayenne  pepper;  salt  to  taste,  and  from  one- 
quarter  to  one-half  a  poimd  of  grated  cheese  according  to  taste.  Drain  and  dish 
the  maccaroni;  pour  the  boiling  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  immediately. 

MACCARONI  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Divide  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  f  our-iuch  pieces,  put  it  into  boiling 
salted  water  enough  to  cover  it;  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  then  drain; 
arrange  it  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  tomato  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  imme- 
diately while  hot.    See  ^'  SauceB'*  for  tomato  sauce. 

13 


TO  MAKE  BUTTER, 

Thoroughly  scald  the  chum,  then  cool  well  with  ice  or  spring  water.  Now 
pour  in  the  thick  cream;  chum  fast  at  first,  then,  as  the  butter  forms,  moro 
slowly;  always  with  perfect  regularity;  in  warm  weather,  pour  a  little  cold 
water  into  the  chum,  should  the  butter  form  slowly;  in  winter,  if  the  cream  is 
too  cold,  add  a  httle  warm  water  to  bring  it  to  the  proper  temperature.  When 
the  butter  has  '^  come,"  rinse  the  sides  of  the  chinn  down  with  cold  water,  and 
take  the  butter  up  with  the  perforated  dasher  or  a  wooden  ladle,  turning  it 
dexterously  just  below  the  surface  of  the  buttermilk  to  catch  every  stray  bit; 
have  ready  some  very  cold  water,  in  a  deep  wooden  tray;  and  into  this  plunge 
the  dasher  when  you  draw  it  from  the  chum;  the  butter  will  float  off,  leaving 
the  dasher  free.  When  you  have  collected  all  the  butter,  gather  behind  a 
wooden  butter  ladle,  and  drain  off  the  water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter 
with  the  ladle;  then  pour  on  more  cold  water,  and  work  the  butter  with  the 
ladle  to  get  the  milk  out,  drain  off  the  water,  sprinkle  salt  over  the  butter, — a 
tablespoonful  to  a  pound;  work  it  in  a  little,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour 
to  harden,  then  work  and  knead  it  until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and 
the  butter  is  perfectly  smooth  and  close  in  texture  and  polish;  then  with  the 
ladle  make  up  into  rolls,  little  balls,  stamped  pats,  etc. 

The  chum,  dasher,  tray  and  ladle,  should  be  well  scalded  before  using,  so  that 
the  butter  will  not  stick  to  them,  and  then  cooled  with  very  cold  water. 

When  you  skim  cream  into  your  cream  jar,  stir  it  weU  into  what  is  already 
there,  so  that  it  may  all  sour  alike;  and  no  fresh  cream  should  be  put  with  it 
within  twelve  hours  before  churning,  or  the  butter  will  not  come  quickly;  and 
perhaps,  not  at  alL 

Butter  is  indispensable  in  almost  all  culinary  preparations.  Good,  fresh 
butter,  used  in  moderation,  is  easily  digested;  it  is  softening,  nutritiouff,  and 


BUTTER  AND  CHEESE.  195 

fattening,  and  is  far  more  easily  digested  than  any  other  of  the  oleaginous  sub- 
stances sometimes  used  in  its  place. 

TO  MAKE  BUTTER  QUICKLY. 

Immediately  after  the  cow  is  milked,  strain  into  clean  pans,  and  set  it  over  a 
moderate  fire  until  it  is  scalding  hot;  do  not  let  it  boil;  then  set  it  aside;  when 
it  is  cold,  skim  off  the  cream;  the  milk  will  still  be  fit  for  any  ordinary  use; 
when  you  have  enough  cream,  put  it  into  a  dean  earthen  basin;  beat  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  butter  is  made,  which  will  not  be  long;  then  take  it  from 
the  milk  and  work  it  with  a  Uttle  cold  water,  untfl  it  is  free  from  milk;  then 
drain  off  the  water,  put  a  small  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt  to  each  pound  of 
butter,  and  work  it  in.  A  small  teaspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar,  worked  in  with 
the  salt,  will  be  found  an  improvement— sugar  is  a  great  preservative.  Make 
the  butter  in  a  roll;  cover  it  with  a  bit  of  muslin,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
A  reliable  recipe. 

A  BRINE  TO  PRESERVE  BUTTER. 

First  work  your  butter  into  small  roUs,  wrapping  each  one  carefully  in  a 
dean  muslin  doth,  tying  them  up  with  a  string.  Make  a  brine,  say  three 
gallons,  having  it  strong  enough  of  salt  to  bear  up  an  egg;  add  half  a  teacupful 
of  pure,  white  sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre;  boil  the  brine,  and  when 
cold  strain  it  carefully.  Pour  it  over  the  rolls  so  as  to  more  than  cover  them, 
as  this  excludes  the  air.  Place  a  weight  over  all  to  keep  the  rolls  under  the 
surface. 

PUTTING  UP  BUTTER  TO  KEEP. 

Take  of  the  best  pure,  common  salt  two  quarts,  one  ounce  of  white  sugar 

and  one  of  saltpetre;  pulverize  them  together  completely.     Work  the  butter 

well,  then  thoroughly  work  in  an  ounce  of  this  mixture  to  every  pound  of 

butter.    The  butter  to  be  made  into  half-pound  rolls,  and  put  into  the  following 

brine— to  three  gallons  of  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  add  a  quarter  of 

a  pound  of  white  sugar. 

— Orafige  Co.,  N.  Y.,  style. 

CURDS  AND  CREAM. 

One  gallon  of  milk  will  make  a  moderate  dish.  Put  one  spoonful  of  prepared 
rennet  to  each  quart  of  milk,  and  when  you  find  that  it  has  become  curd,  tie  it 
loosely  in  a  thin  cloth  and  hang  it  to  drain;  do  not  wring  or  press  the  cloth; 
when  drained,  put  the  curd  into  a  mug  and  set  in  cool  water,  which  must  be 
frequently  dianged  (a  refrigerator  saves  this  trouble.)    When  you  dish  it,  if 


196  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

theJt^  is  whey  in  the  mug,  ladle  it  gently  out  without  pressing  the  cuid;  lay  it 
on  a  deep  dish,  .and  pour  fresh  cream  over  it;  have  powdered  loaf-sugar  to  eat 
with  it;  jgJso  hand  the  nutmeg  grater. 

Prepoxed  rennet  can  be  had  at  almost  any  druggist's,  and  at  a  reasonable 

price.*  Oall.  for  Crosse  &  Blackwell's  Prepared  Bennet. 

.  ,   •        ••   •       #  •  ■ 

•  J^^..  •«'''*; .  -  -    KEW.  JERSEY  CREAM  CHEESE. 


•  ^^J^Mi^^^^^l^fl^'^^^.  qimntity  of  milk  desired;  let  it  cool  a  little,  then  add  the 
rennet;'*. tfie*  curoctions  for  quantity  are  given  on  the  packages  of  ^^  Prepared 
Bennet."  When  the  curd  is  fonned,  take  it  out  on  a  ladle  without  breaking 
it;  lay  it  on  a  thin  doth  held  by  two  persons;  dash  a  ladleful  of  water  over  each 

;  ladleful  of  curd,  to  separate  the  curd;  hang  it  up  to  drain  the  water  off,  and  then 
-put  it'  uuder  a  light  press  for  one  hour;  cut  the  curd  with  a  thread  into  small 
pieces;  lay  a  doth  between  each  two,  and  press  for  an  hour;  take  them  out,  rub 
them  with  fine  salt,  let  them  lie  on  a  board  for  an  hour,  and  wash  them  in  cold 

.  water;  let  them  lie  to  drain,  and  in  a  day  or  two  the  skin  will  look  dry;  put 
some  s^eet  grass  under  and  over  them,  and  they  will  soon  ripen. 

» 

'*  COTTAGE  CHEESE. 

'  l^t.a.panof  sour  or  loppered  nulk  on  the  stove  or  range,  where  it  is  not  too 
/hot;  letit  scald  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top  (be  careful  that  it  does  not  boil, 
or  the. cuTjd; will  become  hard  ahd  tough).  Place  a  clem  dotti  or  towel  over  a 
A^e^  an^^pour  this  whey  and  curd  into  it,  leaving  it  covered  to  drain  two  to 
•three  hotirs;;  then  put  it  into  a  dish  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  spoon,  adding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  the 
dieeM  the  consistency  of  putty.  With  your  hands  make  it  into  httle  balls  flat- 
tehed.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Many  like  it  made  rather  thin  with  cream, 
serving  it  in  a  deep  dish.  You  may  make  this  cheese  of  sweet  milk,  by  forming 
the  curd  with  prepared  rennet. 

SLIP. 

SUp  is  bonny-dabber  without  its  addity,  and  so  delicate  is  its  flavor  that 
many  persons  like  it  just  as  well  as  ice-cream.  It  is  prepared  thus:  Make  a 
quart  of  milk  moderatdy  warm;  then  stir  into  it  one  large  spoonful  of  the 
preparation  called  rennet;  set  it  by,  and  when  cool  again  it  will  be  as  stiff  as 
jeDy.  It  should  be  made  only  a  few  hours  before  it  is  to  be  used,  or  it  will  be 
tough  and  watery;  in  summer  set  the  dish  on  ice  after  it  has  jellied.  It  must  be 
served  with  powdered  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream. 


BUTTER  AND  CHEESE.  197 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

Melt  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  whisk  into  it  a  pint  of  boiled  milk.  .•  Dissolve 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  gill  of  cold  milk,  add  it  tb  the-boil^'  milk  and 
let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  heaping  teaspoonf ui  of  saftti  half 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  pepper,  and  five  ounces  of  grated  cheese.  .  Whip  thQ  wfe|tesiof 
the  ^gs  and  add  them,  pour  the  mixture  into  $t  'deep  tin  -lined  with^J^u^red 
paper,  and  allow  for  the  rising,  say  four  inch^a  Bake  twenty '  midutes  and 
serve  the  moment  it  leaves  the  oven. 

•        *         • 

CHEESE  SOUFFL6.  ••;."* 

* 

Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  mix  smoothly  with  it  one  ounce  of 
flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk;  simmer  the  ' 
mixture  gently  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  tiU  it  is  as  thick  as  melte^ ' 
butter;  stir  into  it  about  three  ounces  of  finely-grated  parmesan,  or  any  good 
cheese.    Turn  it  into  a  basin,  and  mix  with  it  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  *eg^. ' 
Whisk  three  whites  to  a  sohd  froth,  and  just  before  the  soufil6  is  baked  put 
them  into  it,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  small  round  tin.    It  should  be  only 
half  filled,  as  the  fondu  will  rise  very  high.    Pin  a  napkin  around  the  dish  in  ' 
which  it  is  baked,  and  serve  the  moment  it  is  baked.    It  would  be  well  to  have  a 
metal  cover  strongly  heated.    Time  twenty  minutes.    Sufficient  for  six  persons. 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE. 

• 

Any  person  who  is  fond  of  cheese  could  not  fail  to  favor  this  recipe.  - 
Take  three  slices  of  bread,  well-buttered,  first  cutting  off  the  brown  outside 
crost.  Grate  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  good  cheese;  lay  th^ 
bread  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  over  it  the  grated  cheese, 
some  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  four  weU-beaten  eggs  with  three  ,cups  of 
milk;  pour  it  over  the  bread  and  cheese.  Bake  it  in  a  hot  oven  as  you  would 
cook  a  bread  pudding.    This  makes  an  ample  dish  for  four  people. 

PASTRY  RAMAKINS. 

Take  the  remains  or  odd  pieces  of  any  light  puff-paste  left  from  pies  or  tarts; 
gather  up  the  pieces  of  paste,  roll  it  out  evenly,  and  sprinkle  it  with'' grated 
cheese  of  a  nice  flavor.  Fold  the  paste  in  three,  roll  it  out  again,  and  sprinkle 
more  cheese  over;  fold  the  paste,  roll  it  out,  and  with  a  paste-cutter  shape  it  in 
any  way  that  may  be  desired.  Bake  the  ramakins  in  a  brisk  oven  from  ten  to  . 
fifteen  minutes,  dish  them  on  a  hot  napkin,  and  serve  quickly.    The  appearance 


\ 


198  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

of  this  dish  may  be  very  much  improved,  by  brushing  the  ramakiiis  over  with 
yolk  of  ^;g  before  they  are  placed  in  the  oven.    Where  expense  is  not  objected 
to^  parmesan  is  the  best  kind  of  cheese  to  use  for  malring  this.  dish. 
Very  nice  with  a  cup  of  coffee  for  a  lunch. 

CAYENNE  CHEESE  STRAWS 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fknur,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  grated  parmesan  cheeee,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayeime  pepper.  Mix  into  a  paste  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Boll  out  to  the  thickness  of  a  silver  quarter,  about  four  or  five 
inches  long;  cut  into  strips  about  a  third  of  an  inch  wide,  twist  them  as  you 
would  a  paper  spill,  and  lay  them  on  a  baking-sheet  slightly  floured.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  untQ  crisp,  but  they  must  not  be  the  least  brown.  If  put  away 
in  a  tin,  these  cheese  straws  will  keep  a  long  time.  Sorve  cold,  piled  tastefully 
on  a  ^Uiss  dish.  You  can  make  the  straws  of  renmants  of  puff-pastry^  rolling 
in  the  grated  cheese. 

CHEESE  CREAM  TOAST. 

Stale  bread  may  be  served  as  follows:  Toast  the  slices  and  cover  them  slightly 
with  grated  cheese;  make  a  cream  for  ten  sUces  out  of  a  pint  of  milk  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  plain  flour.  The  milk  should  be  boiling,  and  the  flour  mixed 
inalittle  cold  water  before  stining  in.  When  the  cream  is  nicely  cooked,  season 
with  salt  and  butter;  set  the  toast  and  cheese  in  the  oven  for  three  or  four 
minutes,  and  then  pour  the  cream  over  them. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Grate  three  ounces  of  dry  cheese,  and  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  put 
four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  three  of  butter;  beat  the  whole  together  in  a 
mortar  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  some  pepper; 
toast  some  slices  of  bread,  cut  off  the  outside  crust,  cut  it  in  shapes  and  spread 
the  paste  thick  upon  them,  and  put  them  in  the  oven^  let  them  become  hot  and 
slightly  browned,  serve  hot  as  possible. 


There  are  so  toany  ways  of  cooking  and  dressing  eggs,  that  it  seems  un- 
necessary for  the  ordinary  family  to  use  only  those  that  are  the  most  practical. 

To  ascertain  the  freshness  of  an  egg,  hold  it  between  your  thumb  and  fore- 
finger in  a  horizontal  position,  with  a  strong  light  in  front  of  you.  The  fresh 
e^  will  have  a  dear  appearance,  both  upper  and  lower  sides  being  the  same. 
The  stale  egg  will  have  a  clear  appearance  at  the  lower  side,  while  the  upper  side 
will  exhibit  a  dark  or  cloudy  appearance. 

Another  test  is  to  put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water;  those  that  are  the  first  to 
sink  are  the  freshest;  the  stale  will  rise  and  float  on  top;  or,  if  the  large  end 
turns  up  in  the  water,  they  are  not  fresh.  The  best  time  for  preserving  eggs  is 
from  July  to  September. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS. 

There  are  several  recipes  for  preserving  eggs,  and  we  give  first  one  which  we 
know  to  be  effectual,  keeping  them  fresh  from  August  until  Spring.  Take  a  piece 
of  quick-lime  as  large  as  a  good-sized  lemon,  and  two  teacupfuls  of  salt;  put  it  into 
a  lai^ge  vessel  and  slack  it  with  a  gallon  of  boiling  water.  It  will  boil  and  bubble 
until  thick  as  cream;  when  it  is  cold,  pour  off  the  top,  which  will  be  perfectly 
clear.  Drain  off  this  Uquor,  and  pour  it  over  your  eggs;  see  that  the  liquor 
more  than  covers  them.  A  stone  jar  is  the  most  convenient; — one  that  holds 
about  six  quarts. 

Another  manner  of  preserving  eggs  is  to  pack  them  in  a  jar  with  layers  of 
salt  between,  the  large  end  of  the  egg  downward,  with  a  thick  layer  of  salt  at 
the  top;  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Some  put  them  in  a  wire  basket  or  a  piece  of  mosquito  net,  and  dip  them  in 
boiling  water  half  a  minute;  then  pack  in  saw-dust.  Still  another  manner  is  to 
dissolve  a  cheap  article  of  gum  arabic,  about  as  thin  as  mucilage,  and  brush 
over  each  egg  with  it;  then  pack  in  powdered  charcoal;  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 


200  EGGS. 

Eggs  can  be  kept  for  some  time  by  smearing  the  shells  with  butter  or  laid; 
then  packed  in  plenty  of  bran  or  sawdust,  the  egs^  not  allowed  to  toodi  one 
another;  or  coat  the  ^gs  with  melted  paraflGme. 

BOILED  EGGS. 

Eggs  for  boihng  cannot  be  too  fresh,  or  boiled  too  soon  after  they  are  laid; 
but  rather  a  longer  time  should  be  allowed  for  bcHling  a  new-laid  egg  than  for 
one  that  is  three  or  four  days  old.  Ha-^^  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water; 
put  the  .^gs  into  it  gently  with  a  sp^^on,  letting  the  spoon  touch  the  bottom  of 
the  sauce-pan  before  it  is  withdrawn,  that  the  ^gg  may  not  faD,  and  conse- 
quently crack.  For  those  who  like  eggs  lightly  boiled^  three  minutes  wfll  be 
found  sufficient;  three  and  thiee-quarterB  to  four  minutes  will  be  amiple  time  to 
set  the  white  nicely;  and  if  liked  hard,  six  or  seven  minutes  will  not  be  found 
too  long.  Should  the  eg^  be  unusually  large,  as  those  of  black  Spanish  fowls 
sometimes  are>  allow  an  extra  half  minute  for  them.  Eggs  for  salad  should  be 
boiled  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  should  be  placed  in  a  basin  of  cold  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  shrink  the  meat  from  the  shell;  they  should  then  be  loDed 
on  the  table  with  the  hand,  and  the  shell  wiU  peel  off  easily. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGG& 

When  properly  cooked,  eggs  are  doni»  evenly  through,  like  any  other  food. 
This  result  may  be  obtained  by  putting  the  ^gg  into  a  dish  with  a  cover,  or  a  tin 
pail,  and  then  pouring  upon  them  boiling  water — two  quarts  or  more  to  a  dosen 
of  eggs — and  cover  and  set  them  away  where  they  will  keep  hot  and  not  boil,  for 
tffli  to  twelve  minutes.  The  heat  of  the  water  cooks  the  eggs  stowly,  evenly  and 
sufliraently,  leaving  the  centre,  or  yolk,  harder  than  the  white,  and  the  egg  tastes 
as  mudi  licfaer  and  nicer  as  a  fresh  egg  is  nicer  than  a  stale  egg. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Hard-boil  twelve  ^gs;  slice  them  thin  in  rings;  in  the  bottcnn  of  a  large 
well-buttered  baking-dish  place  a  layer  of  grated  bread-crumbs^  then  one  of 
eggs;  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Oontinoe 
thus  to  blend  these  ingredients  until  the  dish  is  full;  be  sure,  thou^  that  the 
crumbs  cover  the  ^gs  upon  top.  Over  the  whole  pour  a  laige  teacupful  of 
sweet  cream  or  miU^  and  brown  nicely  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

Set  into  the  oven  until  quite  hot  a  conunon  white  dish,  large  enough  to  hcdd 
the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  allowing  {deniy  of  room  for  each.    ICelt  in  it  a 


EGGS.  20 1 

small  piece  of  butter,  and  breaking  the  eggs  carefully  in  a  saucer,  one  at  a  time, 
slip  them  into  the  hot  dish;  sprinkle  over  them  a  small  quantity  of  pepper  and 
salt,  and  allow  them  to  cook  four  or  five  minutes.  Adding  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream  for  eveiy  two  e^s,  when  the  Qggs  are  first  slipped  in,  is  a  great  improve- 
ment. 

This  is  far  more  delicate  than  fried  eggs. 

Or  prepare  the  eggs  the  same,  and  set  them  in  a  steamer,  over  boiling  water. 

They  are  usually  served  in  hotels  baked  in  individual  dishes,  about  two  in  a 
dish,  and  in  the  same  dish  they  were  baked  in. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan;  tip  around  so  that  it  will 
touch  all  sides  of  the  pan.  Having  ready  half  a  dozen  eggs  broken  in  a  dish, 
salted  and  peppered,  turn  them  (without  beating)  into  the  hot  butter;  stir  them 
one  way  briskly  for  five  or  six  minutes  or  imtil  they  are  mixed.  Be  careful  that 
they  do  not  get  too  hard.    Turn  over  toast  or  dish  up  without. 

POACHED  OR  DROPPED  EGGS. 

Have  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  in  a  frying- 
pan.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the 
salted  water.  Dash  with  a  spoon  a  little  water  over  the  egg,  to  keep  the  top 
white. 

The  beauty  of  a  poached  egg  is  for  the  yolk  to  be  seen  blushing  through  the 
white,  which  should  only  be  just  sufficiently  hardened  to  form  a  transparent  veil 
for  the  egg. 

Cook  until  the  white  is  firm,  and  lift  out  with  a  griddle-cake  turner,  and  place 
on  toasted  bread.    Serve  immediately. 

A  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water,  keeps  the  eggs  from  spreading. 

Open  gem  rings  are  nice  placed  in  the  water  and  an  egg  dropped  into  each 

ring. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Break  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  into  a  saucer,  and  then  slide  them  carefully 
off  into  a  frying-pan  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  dipping  over  the  eggs  the  hot 
grease  in  spoonfuls,  or  turn  them  over-frjdng  both  sides  without  breaking  them. 
They  require  about  three  minutes'  cooking. 

Eggs  can  be  fried  round  like  balls,  by  dropping  one  at  a  time  into  a  quantity 
of  hot  lard,  the  same  as  for  fried  cakes,  first  stirring  the  hot  lard  with  a  stick 
until  it  runs  round  like  a  whirlpool;  this  will  make  the  eggs  look  like  balls. 
Take  out  with  a  skimmer.    Egg^  can  be  poached  the  same  in  boiling  water. 


202  EGGS. 

EGGS  AUX  FINES  HERBES. 

Boll  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  good  teaspoonf ul  of  flour;  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  nutmeg;  put  it  into  a  coffeecupful  of  fresh  mQk,  together  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley;  stir  and  sinuner  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a 
teacupful  of  thick  cream.  Hard-boil  five  eggs,  and  halve  them;  arrange  them 
in  a  dish  with  the  ends  upwards,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  decorate  with 
little  heaps  of  fried  bread-crumbs  round  the  margin  of  the  dish. 

POACHED  EGGS  A  LA  CRfeME- 

Put  a  quart  of  hot  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
into  a  frying-pan,  and  break  each  egg  separately  into  a  saucer;  slip  the  egg  care- 
fully into  the  hot  water,  simmer  three  or  four  minutes  until  the  white  is  set, 
then  with  a  skimmer  lift  them  out  into  a  hot  dish.  Elmpty  the  pan  of  its 
contents,  put  in  half  a  cup  of  cream,  or  rich  milk;  if  milk,  a  laige  spoonful  of 
butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  thicken  with  a  very  httle  cornstarch;  let  it  boil 
up  once,  and  turn  it  over  the  dish  of  poached  eggs.  It  can  be  served  on  toast  or 
without. 

It  is  a  better  plan  to  warm  the  cream  and  butter  in  a  separate  dish,  that  the 
eggs  may  not  have  to  stand. 

EGGS  IN  CASES. 

Make  little  paper  cases  of  buttered  writing  paper;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
in  each,  and  a  Uttle  chopped  parsley  or  onion;  pepper  and  salt.  Place  the  cases 
upon  a  gridiron  over  a  moderate  fire  of  bright  coals,  and  when  the  butter  melts, 
break  a  fresh  egg  into  each  case.  Strew  in  upon  them  a  few  seasoned  bread- 
crumbs, and  when  nearly  done,  glaze  the  tops  with  a  hot  shovel.  Serve  in  the 
paper  cases. 

MINCED  EGGS. 

Chop  up  four  or  five  hard-boiled  oggs;  do  not  mince  them  too  fine.  Put  over 
the  fire  in  a  suitable  dish  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  some  savory  chopped  small.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  into  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  When  it  cooks  thick  like 
cream,  put  in  the  minced  ^gs.  Stir  it  gently  around  and  around  for  a  few 
moments^  and  serve,  garnished  with  sippets  of  toast.  Any  particular  flavor  may 
be  given  to  this  dish,  such  as  that  of  mushrooms,  truflles,  catsup,  essence  of 
shrimps,  etc.,  or  some  shred  anchovy  may  be  added  to  the  mince. 


EGGS.  203 

MIXED  EGGS  AND  BACON. 
Take  a  nice  rasher  of  mild  bacon;  cut  it  into  squares  no  larger  than  dice;  fiy 
it  quickly  until  nicely  browned,  but  on  no  account  bum  it.  Break  half  a  dozen 
•^ggs  into  a  basin,  strain  and  season  them  with  pepper,  add  them  to  the  bacon^ 
«tir  the  whole  about,  and,  when  sufficiently  firm,  turn  it  out  into  a  dish.  Decorate 
with  hot  pickles. 

MIXED  EGGS  GENERALLY.— SAVORY  OR  SWEET. 

Much  the  same  method  is  followed  in  mixed  eggs  generally,  whatever  may 
he  added  to  them;  really  it  is  nothing  more  than  an  omelet  which  is  sxiirred  about 
in  the  pan  while  it  is  being  di'essed,  instead  of  being  allowed  to  set  as  a  pancake. 
Chopped  tongue,  oysters,  shrimps,  sardines,  dried  salmon,  anchovies,  herbs,  may 
be  used. 

COLD  EGGS  FOR  A  PICNIC. 

This  novel  way  of  preparing  cold  egg  for  the  lunch-basket  fully  repays  one 
for  the  extra  time  required.  Boil  hard  several  eggs,  halve  them  lengthwise; 
remove  the  yolks  and  chop  them  fine  with  cold  chicken,  lamb,  veal  or  any 
tender^  roasted  meat;  or  with  bread  soaked  in  milk,  and  any  salad,  as  parsley, 
onion,  celery,  the  bread  being  half  of  the  whole;  or  with  grated  cheese,  a  httle 
olive  oil,  drawn  butter,  flavored.  Fill  the  cavity  in  the  egg  with  either  of  these 
mixtures,  or  any  similar  preparation.  Press  the  halves  together,  roll  twice  in 
heaten  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and  dip  into  boiling  lard.  When  the  color  rises 
delicately,  drain  them  and  they  are  ready  for  use. 

OMELETS. 

In  making  an  omelet,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  omelet  pan  is  hot  and 
'dry.  To  ensure  this,  put  a  small  quantity  of  lard  or  suet  into  a  dean  frying- 
pan,  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  it;  wipe  the  pan  dry  with  a 
iowel,  and  then  put  in  a  tablespoonf  iil  of  butter.  The  smoothness  of  the  pan  is 
most  essential,  as  the  least  particle  of  roughness  will  cause  the  omelet  to  stick. 
Aa  a  general  rule,  a  small  omelet  can  be  made  more  ffliccessfully  than  a  lai'ge 
one,  it  being  much  better  to  make  two  small  ones  of  four  eggs  each,  than  to  try 
double  the  number  of  eggs  in  one  omelet  and  faiL  Allow  one  egg  to  a  person  in 
making  an  omelet  and  one  tablespoonful  of  milk;  this  makes  an  omelet  more 
puflfy  and  tender  than  one  made  without  milk.  Many  prefer  them  without 
milk. 

Omelets  are  called  by  the  name  of  what  is  added  to  give  them  flavor,  as 


204  EGGS. 

minced  ham^  salmon^  onions,  oysters,  etc.,  beaten  up  in  the  eggs  in  due  quan- 
tity, ^hich  giTes  as  many  different  kinds  of  omelets. 

They  are  also  served  over  many  kinds  of  thick  sauces  or  purees,  such  as 
tomatoes,  spinach,  endive,  lettuce,  celery,  etc. 

K  vegetables  are  to  be  added,  they  should  be  already  cooked,  seasoned  and 
hot;  place  in  the  centre  of  the  omelet,  just  before  turning;  so  with  mushroom, 
shrimps,  or  any  cooked  ingredients.  All  omelets  should  be  served  the  moment 
they  are  done,  as  they  harden  by  standing,  and  care  taken  that  they  do  not  cook 
too  much. 

Sweet  omelets  are  generally  used  for  breakfast  or  plain  desserts. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

Put  a  smooth,  dean,  iron  frying-pan  on  the  fire  to  heat;  meanwhile,  beat 
four  eggs,  very  light,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  yolks  to  a  thick  batter. 
Add  to  the  yolks  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt;  and  lastly  sfeLr  in 
the  whites  lightly.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  nearly  half  the  size  of  an  ^g  into  the 
heated  pan;  turn  it  so  that  it  will  moisten  the  entire  bottom,  taking  care  that  it 
does  not  scorch.  Just  as  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  in  the  eggs.  Hold  the  fryixig- 
pan  handle  in  your  left  hand,  and,  as  the  eggs  whiten,  carefully,  with  a  spoon, 
draw  up  lightly  from  the  bottom,  letting  the  raw  part  run  out  oh  the  pan, 
tin  all  be  equally  cooked;  shake  with  yoiu:  left  hand,  till  the  omelet  be  free  from 
the  pan,  then  turn  with  a  spoon  one  half  of  the  omelet  over  the  other;  let  it 
remain  a  moment,  but  continue  shaking,  lest  it  adhere;  toss  to  a  warm  platter 
held  in  the  right  hand,  or  lift  with  a  flat,  broad  shovel;  the  omelet  will  be  firm, 
around  the  edge,  but  creamy  and  light  inside. 

MEAT  OR  FISH  OMELETS. 

Take  cold  meat,  fish,  game  or  poultry  of  any  kind;  remove  all  skin,  sinew^ 
etc.,  and  either  cut  it  small  or  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  together  with  a 
proper  proportion  of  spices  and  salt;  then  either  toss  it  in  a  buttered  frying-pan 
over  a  dear  fire  tiU  it  begins  to  brown,  and  pour  beaten  eggs  upon  it,  or  beat  it 
up  with  the  eggs,  or  spread  it  upon  them  after  they  have  begun  to  set  in  the 
pan.  In  any  case  serve  hot,  with  or  without  a  sauce;  but  garnished  with  crisp 
herbs  in  branches,  pickles,  or  sliced  lemon.  The  right  proportion  is  one  table- 
spoonful  of  meat  to  four  eggs.  A  little  milk,  gravy,  water,  or  white  wine,  may 
be  advantageously  added  to  the  eggs  while  they  are  being  beaten. 

Potted  meats  make  admirable  omelets  in  the  above  manner. 


EGGS.  205 

VEGETABLE  OMELET. 

Make  a  pur6e  by  mashing  up  ready-dressed  vegetables,  together  with  a  little 
milk,  cream  or  gravy,  and  some  seasoning.  The  most  suitable  vegetables  are 
cucumbers,  artichokes,  onions,  sorrel,  green  peas,  tomatoes,  lentils,  mushrooms, 
asparagus  tops,  potatoes,  truflfles  or  turnips.  Prepare  some  eggs  by  beating 
them  very  light.  Pour  them  into  a  nice  hot  frying-pan,  containing  a  spoonful 
of  butter;  spread  the  pur6e  upon  the  upper  side;  and  when  perfectly  hot,  turn 
or  fold  the  omelet  together  and  serve.  Or  cold  vegetables  may  be  merely  chopped 
small,  then  tossed  in  a  little  butter,  and  some  beaten  and  seasoned  eggs  poured 
over. 

OMELET  OF  HERBS. 

Parsley,  thyme,  and  sweet  marjoram  mixed  gives  the  famous  omelette  aux 
fines  herbes  so  popular  at  every  wayside  inn  in  the  most  remote  comer  of  sunny 
France.  An  omelet "  jardiniere  "  is  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  parsley,  onion» 
chives,  shalots  and  a  few  leaves  each  of  sorrel  and  chevril,  minced  fine  and 
stirred  into  the  beaten  eggs  before  cooking.  It  will  take  a  little  more  butter  to 
fry  it  than  a  plain  one. 

CHEESE  OMELET. 

* 

Beat  up  three  eggs,  and  add  to  them  a  tablespoonf ul  of  milk  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  cheese;  add  a  little  more  cheese  before  folding;  turn  it  out 
on  a  hot  dish;  grate  a  little  cheese  over  it  before  serving. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELET. 

Boil  with  a  httle  salt,  and  until  about  half  cooked,  eight  or  ten  stalks  of 
asparagus,  and  cut  the  eatable  i>art  into  rather  small  pieces;  beat  the  Qggs,  and 
mix  the  asparagus  with  them.    Make  the  omelet  as  above  directed. 

Omelet  with  parsley  is  made  by  adding  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

TOMATO  OMELET.  No.  1. 
Peel  a  couple  of  tomatoes,  which  split  into  four  pieces;  remove  the  seeds,  and 
cut  them  into  small  dice;  then  fry  them  with  a  little  butter  until  nearly  done, 
adding  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs  and  Tm'ir  the  tomatoes  with  them,  and 
make  the  omelet  as  usual  Or,  stewafew  tomatoes  in  the  usual  way  and  spread 
over  before  folding. 

TOMATO  OMELET.    No.  2. 
Cut  in  slices  and  place  in  a  stew-pan  six  peeled  tomatoes;  add  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  cold  water,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt.    When  they  begin  to  simmer,  break  in 


206  EGGS. 

six  eggs,  stir  well,  stirring  one  way,  until  the  ^gs  are  cooked,  but  not  too  hard. 
Serve  warm. 

RICE  OMELET. 

Take  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  turn  over  it  a  cupful  of  warm  milk,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  melted,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper; 
mix  well,  then  add  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
hot  frying-pan,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  in  the  omelet  and  set  the  pan 
in  a  hot  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  cooked  through,  fold  it  double,  turn  it  out  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once.    Very  good. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Cut  raw  ham  into  dice,  fry  with  butter,  and  when  cooked  enough,  turn  the 
beaten  egg  over  it,  and  cook  as  a  plain  omelet. 

If  boiled  ham  is  used,  mince  it,  and  mix  with  the  eggs  after  they  are  beaten. 
Bacon  may  be  used  instead  of  raw  ham. 

CHICKEN  OMELET. 

Mince  rather  fine  one  cupful  of  cooked  chicken,  warm  in  a  teacupful  of 
cream  or  rich  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  thicken  with  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Make  a  plain  omelet,  then  add  this  mixture,  just 
before  turning  it  over.  This  is  much  better  than  the  dry  minced  chicken. 
Tongue  is  equally  good. 

MUSHROOM  OMELET. 

Clean  a  cupful  of  large  button  mushrooms,  canned  ones  may  be  used;  cut 
them  into  bits.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  an  ounce  of  butter  and  let  it  mdt;  add  the 
mushrooms,  ateaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  cream  or  milk.  Stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  milk  or 
water  to  thicken,  if  needed.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  set  aside  until  the  omelet  is 
ready. 

Make  a  plain  omelet  the  usual  way,  and  just  before  doubling  it,  turn  the 
mushrooms  over  the  centre  and  serve  hot. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

Parboil  a  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  Uquor,  skim  them  out,  and  let  them 
cool;  add  them  to  the  beaten  eggs,  either  whole  or  minced.  Cook  the  same  as 
a  plain  omelet. 

Thicken  the  liquid  with  butter  rolled  in  flour;  season  with  salt,  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.     Chop  up  the  oysters  and  add  to  . 


V      N 


z  .••-  -- 


./^ 


>  :•• 


--r     B 


iiepo^^cxb.  upper  side;  ^;;,^  ,,^x  N-^--^:  ,..  ^^ 


OMELET  OF  HERBS  ^^^^^  ^ ^^^^^,,  ,-«-•-        . 
V 4!»,aa45.«i marjoram  mix*^  J?^*       ,  ,v.v>'^»'^  '^^^    vv  >^    ^  ^ 

>*ite  »d  »  few  teaT«  «cb  of  s^^tTxA^^^  ^^^^  ^  ,,,v  - 
^JaofliebttteD  ems  before  cooking- 


kjUnoDe. 


CHEESE  o«=^*y:,...>t>.>  >^ ":'  *r.;-  ^  ■■ " 

*•  ^  Urn.  «m,  «ia  add  u>  tbein  »  «» '        ,^t,«v  <■> 


l\*v> 


,A 


**1  of  gwted  cheeae;  add  a  little  more      ^^^^.i,,^, 
«»l«(lBh;gn,tealifcttechee8eoveritb«^t«  * »> ''^^''^'^ ',!1 

ASPARAGUS  OMBi'^.^vA  ^f  ^^  O^-^^  '' 
U^^m.  ealt,  aad  ^f,^:^-^,l  ^J^^t 

'^^easparaguB  with  them.    ^fl^K®  """'   little  c^^'*''"  V'.**' 

^^pa«,ey  is  made  by  adding  ^^  ^      ^,..- ;^:::J '^::, 

TOMATO  oMf i^Tour  p;-;:;t:.  ^-^%  u^j";;^ 

-^of  tomatoes,  which  spUt  ^^  ^^H^  ^r^^^.^f^ 
«4ttiem  into  anall  dice;  then  fry  them        ^^  the  ^^^90** 
"^^Batt  and  pepper.    Beat  the  eggs  »^toes  ^  ..^i«««* 

•^etheomdetasiwaaL    Or.stewafew  .ti*l««^Tci» 


Fed 


aedt<" 


Cut  in  dices  and  place  in  a  stew-^    -V<T»******* 
<  «Jd irate,  alitOe  pepper,  an*  ^  ' 


207 

Iding;  when 


oreparedas 
enough  to 
It  to  taste. 


aspoonful 
\  mix  the 


>me 


ready  a 

.  cream, 

nelet  is 

tie  nut- 

detwill 

pat  in 

ible  to 

lit,  or 

sugar 

This 


ead- 

(not 

alt, 

ful 

>m 


208  EGGS. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  or  six  ^gs  separately;  add  to  the  yoOs  a 
small  cap  of  milk,  a  tablespoonfol  of  flour  or  cornstarch,  a  teaspoonfol  of  bakmg 
powder,  one-half  teaspoonfnl  of  salt,  and  lastly,  the  stiff-beaten  whites.  Bake 
in  a  wen  battered  pie-tin  or  plate,  aboat  half  an  hoar  in  a  steady  oven. 

It  shoold  be  served  the  moment  it  is  taken  from  theoTen,  as  it  is  liable  to  fan. 

OMELET  SOUFFL^. 

Break  six  ^ggps  into  sqiaiate  caps;  beat  foar  of  the  yolks,  mix  with  them  (me 
teaspoonfol  of  floor,  three  tablespoonfols  of  powdered  sugar,  very  litQe  salL 
Flavor  with  extract  lemon  or  any  other  of  the  flavors  that  may  be  preferred. 
Whisk  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  firm  froth;  mix  them  li^tly  with  the  yolks; 
poor  the  mixtore  into  a  greased  pan  or  dish;  bake  in  a  qoick  ovea.  When  weD- 
ijsen  and  lightly  browned  on  the  top,  it  is  done;  roll  oat  in  warm  dish,  sift  pal- 
Terized  sogar  over,  and  send  to  table. 

RUM  OMELET. 

Pot  a  small  qoantity  of  lard  into  the  pan;  let  it  simmer  a  few  minotes,  and 
remove  it;  wipe  the  pan  dry  with  a  towel,  and  pat  in  a  little  fresh  lard  in  which 
the  omelet  may  be  fried.  Care  shoald  be  taken  that  the  lard  does  not  bom, 
which  woold  spoil  the  color  of  the  omelet.  Break  three  ^gs  separately;  pat 
them  into  a  bowl  and  whisk  them  thoroughly  with  a  fork.  The  longer  they 
are  beaten,  the  lifter  will  the  omelet  be.  Beat  up  a  teaspoonfol  of  milk  with 
the  ^ggps  and  continue  to  beat  ontil  the  last  moment  before  pouring  into  the  pan, 
which  shoold  be  over  a  hot  fire.  As  soon  as  the  omelet  sets,  remove  the  pan 
from  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire.  Slip  a  kmf e  under  it  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
pan.  When  the  centre  is  almost  firm,  slant  the  pan,  work  the  omelet  in  shape 
to  fold  easQy  and  neatly,  and  when  slightly  browned,  hold  a  platter  against  the 
edge  of  the  pan  and  deftly  turn  it  out  on  to  the  hot  dish.  Dust  a  liberal  quan- 
tity of  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  singe  the  sugar  into  neat  stripes  with  a  hot 
iron  rod,  heated  in  the  coals;  pour  a  glass  of  warm  Jamaica  rum  around  it,  and 
when  it  is  placed  on  the  table  set  fire  to  the  rum.  With  a  tablespoon  dash  the 
burning  rum  over  the  omelet,  put  out  the  fire  and  serve.  Salt  mixed  with  the 
e^s  prevents  them  from  rising,  and  when  it  is  so  used  the  omelet  will  look 
flabby,  yet  without  salt  it  will  taste  insipid.  Add  a  little  salt  to  it  just  before 
folding  it  and  turning  out  on  the  dish. 


HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Make  a  dressing  of  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
one  of  salad  oil,  a  little  red  or  white  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  yolk  of  an 
egg;  rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly; 
then  stir  in  as  much  chopped  ham  as  will  make  it  consistent,  and  spread  between 
thin  shoes  of  bread.    Omit  salad  oil  and  substitute  melted  butter,  if  preferred. 

HAM  SANDWICHES,  PLAIN. 

Trim  the  crusts  from  thin  shces  of  bread;  butter  them,  and  lay  between  every 
two  some  thin  slices  of  cold,  boiled  ham.  Spread  the  meat  with  a  little  mustard, 
if  liked. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  up  fine  any  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken;  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  with 
gravy,  water  or  cream  enough  to  soften  it;  add  a  good  piece  of  butter,  a  pinch 
of  pepper;  work  it  very  smooth  while  it  is  heating  until  it  looks  almost  like  a 
paste.  Then  spread  it  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Spread  it  between  slices  of  buttered 
bread. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

Take  two  boxes  of  sardines,  and  throw  the  contents  into  hot  water,  having 
first  drained  away  all  the  oil.  A  few  minutes  will  free  the  sardines  from  grease. 
Pour  away  the  water  and  dry  the  fish  in  a  doth;  then  scrape  away  the  skins, 
and  poimd  the  sardines  in  a  mortar  till  reduced  to  paste;  add  pepper,  salt,  and 
some  tiny  pieces  of  lettuce,  and  spread  on  the  sandwiches,  which  have  been  pre- 
viously cut  as  above.    The  lettuce  adds  very  much  to  the  flavor  of  the  sardines. 

Or  chop  the  sardines  up  fine  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- juice  into  them 
and  spread  between  buttered  bread  or  cold  biscuits. 

14 


200  EGGS. 

Eggs  can  be  kept  for  some  time  by  smearing  the  shells  with  butter  or  lard; 
then  packed  in  plenty  of  bran  or  sawdust,  the  ^gs  not  allowed  to  touch  one 
another;  or  coat  the  eggs  with  melted  i>arafSne. 

BOILED  EGGS. 

Eggs  for  boiling  cannot  be  too  fresh,  or  boiled  too  soon  after  they  are  laid; 
but  rather  a  longer  time  shoiild  be  allowed  for  boiling  a  new-laid  egg  than  for 
one  that  is  three  or  four  days  old.  Ha-^e  ready  a  sauce -pan  of  boiling  water; 
put  the  e^s  into  it  gently  with  a  sp^n,  letting  the  spoon  touch  the  bottom  of 
the  sauce-pan  before  it  is  withdrawn,  that  the  egg  may  not  fall,  and  conse- 
quently crack.  For  those  who  like  eggs  Ughtly  boiled,  three  minutes  will  be 
found  suffident;  three  and  three-quarters  to  four  minutes  will  be  ample  time  to 
set  the  white  nicely;  and  if  liked  hard,  six  or  seven  minutes  will  not  be  found 
too  long.  Should  the  eggs  be  unusually  large,  as  those  of  black  Spanish  fowls 
sometimes  are,  allow  an  extra  half  minute  for  them.  Eggs  for  salad  should  be 
boiled  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  should  be  placed  in  a  baain  of  cold  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  shrink  the  meat  from  the  shell;  they  should  then  be  rolled 
on  the  table  with  the  hand,  and  the  shell  will  peel  off  easily. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS. 

When  properly  cooked,  eggs  are  done  evenly  through,  like  any  other  food. 
This  result  may  be  obtained  by  putting  the  egg  into  a  dish  with  a  cover,  or  a  tin 
pail,  and  then  pouring  upon  them  boiling  water — ^two  quarts  or  more  to  a  dozen 
of  eggs — and  cover  and  set  them  away  where  they  will  keep  hot  and  not  boil,  for 
ten  to  twelve  minutes.  The  heat  of  the  water  cooks  the  eggs  slowly,  evenly  and 
sufficiently,  leaving  the  centre,  or  yolk,  harder  than  the  white,  and  the  e^.  tastes 
as  much  richer  and  nicer  as  a  fresh  egg  is  nicer  than  a  stale  ^g. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Hard-boil  twelve  eggs;  sUce  them  thin  in  rings;  in  the  bottom  of  a  large 
well-buttered  baking-dish  place  a  layer  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  then  one  of 
eggs;  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Continue 
thus  to  blend  these  ingredients  until  the  dish  is  full;  be  sure,  though,  that  the 
crumbs  cover  the  eggs  upon  top.  Over  the  whole  pour  a  large  teacupful  of 
sweet  cream  or  jxnSk^  and  brown  nicely  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

Set  into  the  oven  until  quite  hot  a  common  white  dish,  large  enough  to  hold 
the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  each.    Melt  in  it  a 


EGGS.  20 1 

small  piece  of  butter,  and  breaking  the  eggs  carefully  in  a  saucer,  one  at  a  time, 
slip  them  into  the  hot  dish;  sprinkle  over  them  a  small  quantity  of  pepper  and 
salt,  and  allow  them  to  cook  four  or  five  minutes.  Adding  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream  for  every  two  eggs,  when  the  eggs  are  first  slipped  in,  is  a  great  improve- 
ment. 

This  is  far  more  dehcate  than  fried  ^gs. 

Or  prepare  the  eggs  the  same,  and  set  them  in  a  steamer,  over  boiling  water. 

They  are  usually  served  in  hotels  baked  in  individual  dishes,  about  two  in  a 
dish,  and  in  the  same  dish  they  were  baked  in. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan ;  tip  around  so  that  it  will 
touch  aU  sides  of  the  pan.  Having  ready  half  a  dozen  eggs  broken  in  a  dish, 
salted  and  peppered,  turn  them  (without  beating)  into  the  hot  butter;  stir  them 
one  way  briskly  for  five  or  six  minutes  or  until  they  are  mixed.  Be  careful  that 
they  do  not  get  too  hard.    Turn  over  toast  or  dish  up  without. 

POACHED  OR  DROPPED  EGGS. 

Have  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  in  a  frying- 
pan.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the 
salted  water.  Dash  with  a  spoon  a  little  water  over  the  egg,  to  keep  the  top 
white. 

The  beauty  of  a  poached  egg  is  for  the  yolk  to  be  seen  blushing  through  the 
white,  which  should  only  be  just  sufficiently  hardened  to  form  a  transparent  veil 
for  the  egg. 

Cook  until  the  white  is  firm,  and  lift  out  with  a  griddle-cake  turner,  and  place 
on  toasted  bread.    Serve  immediately. 

A  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water,  keeps  the  eggs  from  spreading. 

Open  gem  rings  are  nice  placed  in  the  water  and  an  egg  dropped  into  each 

ring. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Break  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  into  a  saucer,  and  then  slide  them  carefully 
off  into  a  frying-pan  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  dipping  over  the  eggs  the  hot 
grease  in  spoonfuls,  or  turn  them  over-frying  both  sides  without  breaking  them. 
They  require  about  three  minutes'  cooking. 

Eggs  can  be  fried  round  Uke  balls,  by  dropping  one  at  a  time  into  a  quantity 
of  hot  lard,  the  same  as  for  fried  cakes,  first  stirring  the  hot  lard  with  a  stick 
until  it  runs  roimd  like  a  whirlpool;  this  will  make  the  eggs  look  like  balls. 
Take  out  with  a  skinuner.    Eggs  can  be  poached  the  same  in  boiling  water. 


192  VEGETABLES. 

ITALIAN  STYLE  OF  DRESSING  TRUFFLES. 

Ten  truffles,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  salad-oil,  pepper  and  salt  to  ta^te,  one 
tablespoonf  ul  of  minced  parsley,  a  very  little  finely  minced  garlic,  two  blades  of 
pounded  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon- juice. 

After  cleansing  and  brushing  the  truffles,  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  and  put 
them  in  a  baking-dish,  on  a  seasoning  of  oil  or  butter,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  garlic 
and  mace,  in  the  above  proportion.  Bake  them  for  nearly  an  hour,  and  just 
before  serving,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  send  them  to  table  very  hot. 

TRUFFLES  AU  NATUREL. 

Select  some  fine  truffles;  cleanse  them,  by  washing  them  in  several  waters 
with  a  brush,  until  not  a  i>article  of  sand  or  grit  remains  on  them;  wrap  each 
truffle  in  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  quite  an  hour;  take  off  the 
paper,  wipe  the  truffles,  and  serve  them  in  a  hot  napkin. 


HDaccaronL 

MACCARONI  X  LA  ITALIENNE. 

Divide  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maocaroni  into  four-inch  pieces.  Simmer 
fifteen  minutes  in  plenty  of  boiling  water,  salted.  Drain.  Put  the  maccaroni 
into  a  sauce-pan  and  turn  over  it  a  strong  soup  stock,  enough  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Strew  over  it  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese;  when  the  cheese  is  melted,  dish. 
Put  alternate  layers  of  maccaroni  and  cheese;  then  turn  over  the  soup  stock  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

MACCARONI  AND  CHEESE* 

Break  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  pieces  an  inch  or  two  long;  cook  it  in 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it  well;  put  in  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  it 
boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  it  well,  and  then  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of 
a  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  upon  this  some  grated  cheese,  and  small  pieces  of 
butter,  a  bit  of  salt,  then  more  maccaroni,  and  so  on,  filling  the  dish;  sprinkle 
the  top  layer  with  a  thick  layer  of  cracker-crumbs.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cream  or  milk.  Set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  It  should 
be  nicely  browned  on  top.  Serve  in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  was  baked,  with 
a  dean  napkin  pinned  around  it. 


VEGETABLES.  193 

TIMBALE  OF  MACCARONL 

Break  in  very  short  lengths  small  maccaroni  (vermicelli,  spaghetti,  tagliarini). 
Let  it  be  rather  overdone;  dress  it  with  butter  and  grated  cheese;  then  work 
into  it  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  quantity.  Butter  and  bread-crumb  a  plain 
mold,  and  when  the  maccaroni  is  nearly  cold  fill  the  mold  with  it,  pressing  it 
well  down  and  leaving  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  into  which  place  a  well-flavored 
mince  of  meat,  poultry  or  game;  then  fill  up  the  mold  with  more  maccaroni, 
pressed  well  down.    Bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  turn  out  and  serve. 

MACCARONI  A  LA  CR£ME. 

Boil  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  in  plenty  of  hot  water,  salted,  imtil 
tender;  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it  boils  stir  into  it  a 
mixture  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream,  a  little  white  and  cayenne  pepper;  salt  to  taste,  and  from  one- 
quarter  to  one-half  a  pound  of  grated  cheese  according  to  taste.  Drain  and  dish 
the  maccaroni;  pour  the  boiling  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  immediately. 

MACCARONI  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Divide  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  four-inch  pieces,  put  it  into  boiling 
salted  water  enough  to  cover  it;  boil  from  fifteen  to  tweuty  minutes;  then  drain; 
arrange  it  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  tomato  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  imme- 
diately while  hot.    See  ^^  Sauces"  for  tomato  sauce. 

13 


2 1 2  BREAD. 

which  flavors  the  bread  and  makes  it  disagreeable.   A  poor,  thin  yeast  prodnoes 
an  imperfect  fermentation,  the  result  being  a  heavy  unwholesome  loaf. 

If  either  the  sponge  or  the  dough  be  permitted  to  overwork  itself —that  is  to 
say,  if  the  mixing  and  kneading  be  neglected  when  it  has  reached  the  proper 
point  for  either — sour  bread  will  probably  be  the  consequence  in  warm  weather, 
and  bad  bread  in  any.  The  goodness  will  also  be  endangered  by  placing  it  so 
near  a  fire  as  to  make  any  part  of  it  hot,  instead  of  maintaining  the  gentle  and 
equal  degree  of  heat  required  for  its  due  fermentation. 

Heavy  bread  will  also  most  likely  be  the  result  of  making  the  dough  very 
hard,  and  letting  it  become  quite  cold,  particularly  in  winter. 

An  almost  certain  way  of  spoiling  dough  is  to  leave  it  half-made,  and  to 
allow  it  to  become  cold  before  it  is  finished.  The  other  most  common  causes  of 
failure  are  using  yeast  which  is  no  longer  sweet,  or  which  has  been  frozen,  or 
has  had  hot  liquid  poured  over  it. 

As  a  general  rule,  the  oven  for  baking  bread  should  be  rather  quick,  and  the 
heat  so  regulated  as  to  penetrate  the  dough  without  hardening  the  outside.  The 
oven-door  should  not  be  opened  after  the  bread  is  put  in  im^til  the  dough  is  set 
or  has  become  firm,  as  the  cool  air  admitted  wiU  have  an  unfavorable  effect  on  it. 

The  dough  should  risej  and  the  bread  b^gin  to  brown  after  about  fitfteen 
minutes,  but  only  slightly.  Bake  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes,  and  have  it 
brown,  not  black  or  whitey  brown,  but  brown  all  over  when  well  baked. 

When  the  bread  is  baked,  remove  the  loaves  immediately  from  the  pans, 
and  place  them  where  the  air  will  circulate  freely  around  them  and  thus  cany 
off  the  gas  which  has  been  formed,  but  is  no  longer  needed. 

Never  leave  the  bread  in  the  pan  or  on  a  pine  table  to  absorb  the  odor  of  the 
wood.  If  you  like  crusts  that  are  crisp  do  not  cover  the  loaves;  but  to  give  the 
soft,  tender,  wafer-like  consistency  which  many  prefer,  wrap  them,  while  still 
hot,  in  several  thicknesses  of  bread-doth.  When  cold  put  them  in  a  stone  jar, 
removing  the  doth,  as  that  absorbs  the  moisture  and  gives  the  bread  an  unpleasant 
taste  and  odor.  Keep  the  jar  well  covered,  and  carefully  cleansed  from  crumbs 
and  stale  pieces.  Scald  and  dry  it  thoroughly  every  two  or  three  days.  A  yard 
and  a  half  square  of  coarse  table  linen  makes  the  best  bread-doth.  Keep  in  good 
supply;  use  them  for  no  other  purpose. 

Some  people  use  scalding  water  in  making  wheat  bread;  in  that  case  the  flour 
must  be  scalded  and  allowed  to  cool  before  the  yeast  is  added, — ^then  proceed  as 
above.  Bread  made  in  this  manner  keeps  moist  in  summer,  much  longer  than 
when  made  in  the  usual  mode. 

Home-made  yeast  is  generally  preferred  to  any  other.    Compressed  yeast,  as 


BREAD.  213 

now  sold  in  most  grocery  stores,  makes  jSne  light,  sweet  bread,  and  is  a  much 
quicker  process,  and  can  always  be  had  fresh,  being  made  fresh  every  day. 

WHEAT  BREAD. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  large  bread-pan  or  bowl;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  it, 
and  pour  in  the  yeast  in  the  ratio  of  half  a  teacupful  of  yeast  to  two  quarts  of 
flour;  stir  the  yeast  lightly,  then  pour  in  your  "  wetting, '*  either  milk  or  water, 
as  you  choose, — which  use  warm  in  winter,  and  cold  in  summer;  if  you  use 
water  as  "  wetting,'*  dissolvein  it  a  bit  of  butter  of  the  size  of  an  ^g,— if  you 
use  milk,  no  butter  is  necessary;  stir  in  the  "  wetting  "  very  lightly,  but  do  not 
mix  all  the  flour  into  it;  then  cover  the  pan  with  a  thick  blanket  or  towel,  and 
set  it,  in  winter,  in  a  warm  place  to  rise, — ^this  is  called  ^^ putting  the  bread  in 
^ponge.^^  In  summer  the  bread  should  not  be  wet  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  mix  all  the  flour  in  the  pan  with  the  sponge, 
kneading  it  well;  then  let  it  stand  two  hours  or  more  until  it  has  risen  quite 
light;  then  remove  the  dough  to  the  molding-board  and  mold  it  for  a  long 
time,  cutting  it  in  pieces  and  molding  them  together  again  and  again,  until  the 
dough  is  elastic  under  the  pressmre  of  your  hand,  using  as  Uttle  flour  as  possible; 
then  make  it  into  loaves,  put  the  loaves  into  baking-tins.  The  loaves  should 
come  half-way  up  the  pan,  and  they  should  be  allowed  to  rise  until  the  bulk  is 
doubled.  When  the  loaves  are  ready  to  be  put  into  the  oven,  the  oven  should 
be  ready  to  receive  them.  It  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a  teaspoonful  of 
floxu:  in  flve  minutes.  The  heat  should  be  greater  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top 
of  the  oven,  and  the  flre  so  arranged  as  to  give  sufficient  strength  of  heat 
through  the  baking  without  being  replenished.  Let  them  stand  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  prick  them  three  or  four  times  with  a  fork,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from 
forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 

If  these  directions  are  followed,  you  will  obtain  sweet,  tender  and  wholesome 
bread.  If  by  any  mistake  the  dough  becomes  sour  before  you  are  ready  to  bake 
it,  you  can  rectify  it  by  adding  a  Uttie  dry  supercarbonate  of  soda,  molding  the 
dough  a  long  time  to  distribute  the  soda  equally  throughout  the  mass.  All 
bread  is  better,  if  naturally  sweet,  without  the  soda;  but  sour  bread  you  should 
never  eat,  if  you  desire  good  health. 

Keep  well  covered  in  a  tin  box  or  large  stone  crock,  which  should  be  wiped 
out  every  day  or  two,  and  scalded  and  dried  thoroughly  in  the  sun  once  a  week. 

COMPRESSED  YEAST  BREAD. 

Use  for  two  loaves  of  bread  three  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  nearly  a  quart  of 
warm  water,  a  level  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  an  ounce  of  compressed  yeast. 


214  BREAD. 

Pissolve  the  yeast  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water;  then  stir  into  it  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Cover  the  bowl  containing  the  batter  or  sponge  with  a 
thick  folded  doth,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  if  the  temperature  of  heat 
is  properly  attended  to,  the  sponge  will  be  foamy  and  light  in  half  an  hour. 
Now  stir  into  this  sponge  the  salt  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  add  the  rest 
of  the  flomr  and  sufficient  warm  water  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead; 
then  knead  it  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  divide  it  into  loaves,  knead  again  each 
loaf  and  put  them  into  buttered  baking-tins;  cover  them  with  a  doubled  thick 
cloth,  and  set  again  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  twice  their  height,  then  bake  the 
same  as  any  bread.  This  bread  has  the  advantage  of  that  made  of  home-made 
yeast  as  it  is  made  inside  of  three  hours,  whereas  the  other  requires  from  twelve 
to  fourteen  hours. 

HOME-MADE  YEAST. 

Boil  six  large  potatoes  in  three  pints  of  water.  Tie  a  handful  of  hops  in  a 
small  muslin  bag  and  boil  with  the  potatoes;  when  thoroughly  cooked  drain  the 
water  on  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter;  set  this  on  the  stove  or  range  and 
scald  it  enough  to  cook  the  flour,  (this  makes  the  yeast  keep  longer);  remove  it 
from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  enough,  add  the  potatoes  mashed,  also  half  a  cup 
of  sugar,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  two  of  salt  and  a  teacupful  of  yeast. 
Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  thoroughly  risen,  then  put  it  in  a  large 
mouthed  jug,  and  cork  tightly;  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  The  jug  should  be 
scalded  before  putting  in  the  yeast. 

Two-thirds  of  a  coff eecupful  of  this  yeast  will  make  four  loaves. 

• 

UNRIVALED  YEAST. 

On  one  morning  boil  two  ounces  of  the  best  hops  in  four  quarts  of  water  half 
an  hour;  strain  it,  and  let  the  liquor  cool  to  the  consistency  of  new  milk;  then 
put  it  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  salt,  and  half  a  cupful  of 
brown  sugar;  beat  up  one  quart  of  flour  with  some  of  the  liquor;  then  mix  all 
well  together,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  third  day  after;  then  add  six  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colander;  let  it  stand  a  day,  then 
strain  and  bottle,  and  it  is  fit  for  use.  It  mu^t  be  stirred  frequently  while  it  is 
making,  and  kept  near  a  fire.  One  advantage  of  this  yeast  is  its  spontaneous 
fermentation,  requiring  the  help  of  no  old  yeast;  if  care  be  taken  to  let  it  fer- 
ment well  in  the  bowl,  it  may  immediately  be  corked  tightly.  Be  careful  to 
keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Before  using  it  shake  the  bottie  up  well.  It  wiU  keep 
in  a  cool  place  two  months,  and  is  best  the  latter  part  of  the  time.  Use  about 
the  same  quantity  as  of  other  yeast. 


BREAD.  215 

DRIED  YEAST  OR  YEAST  CAKES. 

Make  a  pan  of  yeast  the  same  as  ^^  Home-made  Yeast;"  mix  in  with  it  corn- 
meal  that  has  been  sifted  and  dried,  kneading  it  well  until  it  is  thick  enough  to 
roll  out,  when  it  can  be  cut  into  cakes  or  crumble  up.  Spread  out  and  dry  thor- 
oughly in  the  shade;  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

When  it  is  convenient  to  get  compressed  yeast,  it  is  much  better  and  cheaper 
than  to  make  your  own,  a  saving  of  time  and  trouble.  Almost  all  groceries  keep 
it,  delivered  to  them  fresh  made  daily. 

SALT-RAISING  BREAD. 

While  getting  breakfast  in  the  morning,  as  soon  as  the  tea-kettle  has  boiled, 
take  a  quart  tin  cup  or  an  earthen  quart  milk  pitcher,  scald  it,  then  fill  one-third 
full  of  water  about  as  warm  as  the  finger  could  be  held  in;  then  to  this  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  brown  sugar  and  coarse  flour  enough  to  make  a 
batter  of  about  the  right  consistency  for  griddle-cakes.  Set  the  cup,  with  the 
spoon  in  it,  in  a  closed  vessel  half -filled  with  water,  moderately  hot,  but  not 
scalding.  Keep  the  temperature  as  nearly  even  as  possible,  and  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  flour  once  or  twice  during  the  process  of  fermentation.  The  yeast  ought 
to  reach  to  the  top  of  the  bowl  in  about  five  hours.  Sift  your  flour  into  a  pan, 
make  an  opening  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  your  yeast.  Have  ready  a  pitcher 
of  warm  milk,  salted,  or  milk  and  water,  (not  too  hot,  or  you  will  scald  the  yeast 
germs,)  and  stir  rapidly  into  a  pulpy  mass  with  a  spoon.  Cover  this  sponge 
closely,  and  keep  warm  for  an  hour,  then  knead  into  loaves,  adding  flour  to 
make  the  proper  consistency.  Place  in  warm,  well-greased  pans,  cover  closely, 
and  leave  till  it  is  light.  Bake  in  a  steady  oven,  and  when  done  let  all  the  hot 
steam  escape.  Wrap  closely  in  damp  towels,  and  keep  in  closed  earthen  jars 
until  it  is  wanted. 

This  in  our  grandmothers'  time  used  to  be  considered  the  prize  bread,  on 
account  of  its  being  sweet  and  wholesome,  and  required  no  prepared  yeast  to 
make  it.  Nowadays  yeast-bread  is  made  with  very  little  trouble,  as  the  yeast 
can  be  procured  at  almost  any  grocery. 

BREAD  FROM  MILK  YEAST. 

At  noon  the  day  before  baking,  take  half  a  cup  of  corn-meal,  and  pour  over 
it  enough  sweet  milk  boiling  hot  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  batter-cakes.  In 
the  winter  place  it  where  it  will  keep  warm.  The  next  morning  before  break- 
fast pour  into  a  pitcher  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 


2l6  BREAD. 

one  of  salt.  When  cool  enough  so  that  it  will  not  scald  the  flour,  add  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter;  then  add  the  cup  of  meal  set  the  day  before.  This  will  be 
full  of  little  bubbles.  Then  place  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  cover  the 
top  with  a  folded  towel  and  put  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  and  you  will  be  sur- 
prised to  find  how  soon  the  yeast  will  be  at  the  top  of  the  pitcher.  Then  pour 
the  yeast  into  a  bread-pan;  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  warm  water,  or  half  water 
and  half  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  knead  into  loaves.  Enead  but  Uttle 
harder  than  for  biscuit,  and  bake  as  soon  as  it  rises  to  the  top  of  the  tin.  This 
recipe  makes  flve  large  loaves.  Do  not  allow  it  to  get  too  light  before  baking, 
for  it  will  make  the  bread  dry  and  crumbling.  A  cup  of  this  milk  yeast  is  excel- 
lent to  raise  buckwheat  cakes. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

One  teacupful  of  wheat  flour,  one-half  teacupf ul  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one 
half  cupful  of  good  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  warm  water;  add 
sufficient  Qraham  flour  to  make  the  dough  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a 
strong  spoon;  this  is  to  be  mixed  at  night;  in  the  morning,  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  mix  well,  and  pour  into  two  medium-sized 
pans;  they  will  be  about  half  full;  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  rises  to 
the  top  of  the  pans,  then  bake  one  hour  in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

This  should  be  covered  about  twenty  minutes  when  first  put  into  the  oven 
with  a  thick  brown  paper,  or  an  old  tin  cover;  it  prevents  the  upper  crust 
hardening  before  the  loaf  is  well- risen.  If  these  directions  are  correctly  fol- 
lowed the  bread  will  not  be  heavy  or  sodden,  as  it  has  been  tried  for  years  and 
never  failed. 

GRAHAM  BREAD.     (Unfermented.) 

Stibr  together  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three  cups  of 
Qraham  flour,  and  one  cup  of  white  flour;  then  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  all  thoroughly  with  milk  or  water  into  as  stiff  a 
batter  as  can  be  stirred  withaspoon.  If  water  is  used,  a  lump  of  butter  as  large 
as  a  walnut  may  be  melted  and  stirred  into  it.  Bake  immediately  in  well- 
greased  pans. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  rye  flour,  one  quart  of  com-meal,  one  teacupful  of  Graham  flour, 
all  fresh;  half  a  teacupful  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  home-made  yeast.  Mix  into  as  stiff  a  dough  as  can 
be  stirred  withaspoon,  usingwarm  water  for  wetting.    Let  it  rise  several  hours^ 


BREAD.  217 

or  over  night;  in  the  mornings  or  when  light,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  di£h 

solved  in  a  spoonful  of  warm  water;  beat  it  well  and  turn  it  into  well-greased, 

deep,  bread-pans,  andlet  itriseagain.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  three  to  four 

hours. 

— Palmer  House,  Chicago. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD.    (Unfermented). 

One  cupful  of  rye  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one  cupful  of  white  flour, 
half  a  teacupful  of  molasses  or  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  all  together 
thorougJUy,  and  wet  up  with  sour  milk;  then  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  The  same  can  be  made  of  sweet  milk,  by 
substituting  baking-powder  for  soda.  The  batter  to  be  stirred  as  thick  as  can  be 
with  a  spoon,  and  turned  into  weU-greased  pans. 

VIRGINIA  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  corn-meal,  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  thoroughly  scald  it; 
when  cool,  add  one  pint  of  light,  white  bread  sponge,  mix  well  together,  add  one 
cupful  of  molasses,  and  Graham  flour  enough  to  mold;  this  will  make  two 
loaves;  when  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  and  a  half  hours. 

RHODE  ISLAND  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  rye-meal, 
one  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  a  little  salt  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  covered  dish,  either 
earthen  or  iron,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  three  hours. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  two  of  G-raham  flour,  two  of  Indian  meal,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  one  cup  of  molasses,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  a  little  salt. 
Beat  well  and  steam  for  four  hours.  This  is  for  sour  milk;  when  sweet  milk 
is  used,  use  baking  powder  in  place  of  soda. 

This  is  improved  by  setting  it  into  the  oven  flfteen  minutes  after  it  is  slipped 
from  the  mold.    To  be  eaten  warm  with  butter.    Most  excellent. 

RYE  BREAD. 

To  a  quart  of  warm  water  stir  as  much  wheat  floinr  as  will  make  a  smooth 

batter;  stir  into  it  half  a  gill  of  home-made  yeast,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to 

rise;  this  is  called  setting  a  sponge;  let  it  be  mixed  in  some  vessel  which  will 

contain  twice  the  quantity;  in  the  morning,  put  three  pounds  and  a  half  of  rye 


2l8  BREAD. 

flour  into  a  bowl  or  tray,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  pour  in  the  sponge,  add  a 
dessertspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
a  Uttle  water;  make  the  whole  into  a  smooth  dough,  with  as  much  warm  water 
as  may  be  necessary;  knead  it  well^  cover  it,  and  let  it  set  in  a  warm  place  for 
three  hours;  then  knead  it  again,  and  make  it  into  two  or  three  loaves;  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  one  hour,  if  made  in  two  loaves,  or  less  if  the  loaves  are  smaller. 

RYE  AND  CORN  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  rye  meal  or  rye  flour,  two  quarts  of  Indian  meal,  scalded  (by 
placing  in  a  pan  and  pouring  over  it  just  enough  boiling  water  to  merely  wet  it, 
but  not  enough  to  make  it  into  a  batter,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon),  one- 
half  cup  of  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  dalt,  one  teacup  yeast;  make  it  as  stiff  as 
can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all  night.  In 
the  morning  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  httle  water;  then  put 
it  in  a  large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand  dipped  in  cold  water;  let  it  stand 
a  short  time,  and  bake  five  or  six  hours.  If  put  in  the  oven  late  in  the  day,  let 
it  remain  all  night. 

Graham  may  be  used  instead  of  rye,  and  baked  as  above. 

This  is  similar  to  the  '^  Bye  and  Injun  "  of  our  grandmothers'  days,  but  that 
was  placed  in  a  kettle,  allowed  to  rise,  then  placed  in  a  covered  iron  pan  upon 
the  hearth  before  the  fire,  with  coals  heaped  upon  the  Ud,  to  bake  all  night. 

FRENCH  BREAD. 

Beat  together  one  pint  of  milk,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  melted  butter,  or  half 
butter  and  half  lard,  half  a  cupful  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  ^ggs. 
Stir  into  this  two  quarts  of  flour.  When  this  dough  is  risen,  make  into  two 
large  roUs,  and  bake  as  any  bread.  Out  across  the  top  diagonal  gashes  just  be- 
fore putting  into  the  oven. 

TWIST  BREAD. 

Let  the  bread  be  made  as  directed  for  wheat  bread,  then  take  three  pieces  as 
large  as  a  pint  bowl  each ;  strew  a  little  flour  over  the  paste-board  or  table,  roll 
each  piece  under  your  hands,  to  twelve  inches  length,  making  it  smaller  in  cir- 
cumference at  the  ends  than  in  the  middle;  having  rolled  the  three  in  this  way, 
take  a  baking-tin,  lay  one  part  on  it,  join  one  end  of  each  of  the  other  two  to  it, 
and  braid  them  together  the  length  of  the  rolls,  and  join  the  ends  by  pressing 
them  together;  dip  a  brush  in  milk,  and  pass  it  over  the  top  of  the  loaf;  after 
ten  minutes  or  so,  set  it  in  a  quick  oven,  and  bake  for  nearly  an  hour. 


BREAD.  219 

NEW  ENGLAND  CORN  CAKE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  corn-meal,  one  teacupful  of  wheat  flour,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Scald  the  milk,  and  grad- 
ually pour  it  on  the  meal;  when  cool,  add  the  butter  and  salt,  also  a  half  cup  of 
yeast.  Do  this  at  night;  in  the  morning  beat  thoroughly  and  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  buttered  deep  earthen  plates,  let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes 
to  rise  again,  then  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

GERMAN  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  milk  well-bofled,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
nice  lard  or  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  baker's  yeast.  Make  a  rising 
with  the  milk  and  yeast;  when  light,  mix  in  the  sugar  and  shortening,  with 
flour  enough  to  make  as  soft  a  dough  as  can  be  handled.  Flour  the  i)aste-board 
well,  roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick;  put  this  quantity  into  two  large  pans; 
make  about  a  dozen  indentures  with  the  finger  on  the  top;  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  in  each,  and  sift  over  the  whole  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  mixed  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Let  this  stand  for  a  second  rising;  when  per- 
fectly light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

CORN  BREAD.  ' 

Two  cups  of  sifted  meal,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  well- 
beaten  %gs,  half  a  cup  of  molasses  or  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  melted  butter.  Mix  the  meal  and  flour  smoothly  and  gradually 
with  the  milk,  then  the  butter,  molasses,  and  salt,  then  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
lastly  dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda  in  a  little  milk  and  beat  thor- 
oughly all  together.  Bake  nearly  an  hour  in  well-buttered  tins,  not  very  shallow. 
This  recipe  can  be  made  with  sweet  milk  by  using  baking-powder  in  place  of  soda. 

— St.  Charhs  Hotel,  New  Orleans. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD. 

Three  cups  of  white  com- meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  table- 
spoonful of  lard,  three  cups  of  milk  and  three  eggs.  Sift  together  the  flour,  com, 
meal,  sugar,  salt  and  baking-powder;  rub  in  the  lard  cold,  add  the  eggs  well- 
beaten  and  then  the  milk.  Mix  into  a  moderately  stiff  batter;  pour  it  into 
well-greased,  shallow  baking-pans,  (pie-tins  are  suitable).  Bake  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes. 


220  BREAD. 

BOSTON  CORN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses^ 
one  of  wheat  flour,  four  of  corn-meal  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  steam  for- 
three  hours,  and  brown  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  The  same  made  of  sweet 
milk  and  baking-powder  is  equally  as  good. 

INDIAN  LOAF  CAKE. 

Mix  a  teacupful  of  powdered  white  sugar  with  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  and  cut 
up  in  the  milk  two  ounces  of  butter,  adding  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. '  Put  this, 
mixture  into  a  cohered  pan  or  skillet,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  till  it  is  scalding  hot. 
Then  take  it  off,  and  scald  with  it  as  much  yeUow  Indian  meal  (previously  sifted) 
as  will  make  it  of  the  consisteiice  of  thick  boiled  mush.  Beat  the  whole  very 
hard  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  set  it  away  to  cool. 

While  it  is  cooUng,  beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  mixture  when  it  is  about  as  warm  as  new  milk.  Add  a  teacupful  of  good 
strong  yeast,  and  beat  the  whole  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  for  much  of  the 
goodness  of  this  cake  depends  on  its  being  long  and  well-beaten.  Then  have ' 
ready  a  tin  mold  or  earthen  pan  with  a  pipe  in  the  centre,  (to  diffuse  the  heat 
through  the  middle  of  the  cake).  The  pan  must  be  very  well-buttered,  as  Indian 
meal  is  apt  to  stick.  Put  in  the  mixture,  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to. 
rise.  It  should  be  hght  in  about  four  hours.  Then  bake  it  two  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  done,  turn  it  out  with  the  broad  surface  downwards, 
and  send  it  to  table  hot  and  whole.     Cut  it  into  slices  and  eat  it  with  butter. 

This  win  be  found  an  excellent  cake.    If  wanted  for  breakfast,  TmV  it,  and 

set  it  to  rise  the  night  before.    If  properly  made,  standing  all  night  will  not 

injure  it.    Like  aU  Indian  cakes,  (of  which  this  is  one  of  the  best),  it  should  be 

eaten  warm. 

— St.  Charles  Hotels  New  Orleans. 

JOHNNIE  CAKE. 

Sift  one  quart  of  Indian  meal  into  a  pan;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  pour 

in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  with  a  spoon  mix  the 

meal  and  water  gradually  into  a  soft  dough;  stir  it  very  briskly  for  a  quarter  of 

an  hour  or  more,  tiU  it  becomes  light  and  spongy;  then  spread  the  dough  smooth 

and  evenly  on  a  straight,  flat  board  (a  piece  of  the  head  of  a  flour-barrel  will 

serve  for  this  purpose);  place  the  board  nearly  upright  before  an  open  flre,  and 

put  an  iron  against  the  back  to  support  it;  bake  it  well;  when  done,  cut  it  in, 

squares;  send  it  hot  to  table,  split  and  buttered. 

—Old  Plantation  Style. 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  221 

SPIDER  CORN-CAKE. 

Beat  two  eggs  and  one-fourth  cup  sugar  together.  Then  add  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  and  one  cup  of  sour  milk  in  which  you  have  dissolved  one  teaspoonf ul 
soda.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Then  mix  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  granu- 
lated corn-meal  and  one-third  cup  flour  with  this.  Put  a  spider  or  skillet  on  the 
range,  and  when  it  is  hot  melt  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Turn  the  spider 
so  that  the  butter  can  run  up  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Pour  in  the  corn-cake 
mixture  and  add  one  more  cup  of  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  stir  afterwards.  Put 
this  in  the  oven  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty-five  minutes.  When  done,  there 
should  be  a  streak  of  custard  through  it. 

SOUTHERN  CORN-MEAL  PONE  OR  CORN  DODGERS. 

Mix  with  cold  water  into  a  soft  dough  one  quart  of  southern  corn-meal, 
sifted,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard  melted.  Mold 
into  oval  cakes  with  the  hands  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  in  well-greased 
pans.    To  be  eaten  hot.    The  crust  should  be  brown. 

RAISED  POTATO-CAKE. 

Potato-cakes,  to  be  served  with  roast  lamb  or  with  game,  are  made  of  equal 
quantities  of  mashed  potatoes  and  of  flour,  say  one  quart  of  each,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  httle  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  for  gi-iddle- 
cakes;  to  this  allow  half  a  teacupful  of  fresh  yeast;  let  it  rise  till  it  is  light  and 
bubbles  of  air  form;  then  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  spoonful  of 
warm  water  and  add  to  the  batter;  bake  in  muffin  tins.  These  are  good  also 
with  fricasseed  chicken;  take  them  from  the  tins  and  drop  in  the  gravy  just 
before  sending  to  the  table. 


Biscuits,  IRoIIs,  ^utHna,  iBtc 

GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS. 

In  making  batter-cakes,  the  ingredients  should  be  put  together  over  night  to 
rise,  and  the  eggs  and  butter  added  in  the  morning;  the  butter  melted  and  eggs 
well-beaten.  If  the  batter  appears  sour  in  the  least,  dissolve  a  httle  soda  and 
stir  into  it;  this  shotdd  be  done  early  enough  to  rise  some  time  before  baking. 

Water  can  be  u'ted  in  place  of  milk  in  all  raised  dough,  and  the  dough  should 
be  thoroughly  ligH  before  making  into  loaves  or  biscuits;  then  when  molding 


222  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

them,  use  as  little  flour  as  possible;  the  kneading  to  be  done  when  first  made 
from  the  sponge,  and  should  be  done  well  and  for  some  length  of  time,  as  this 
makes  the  pores  fine,  the  bread  cut  smooth  and  tender.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  get  the  dough  too  stiff. 

Where  any  recipe  calls  for  baking-powder,  and  you  do  not  have  it,  you  can 
use  cream-tartar  and  soda,  in  the  proportion  of  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  to 
two  of  cream-tartar. 

When  the  recipe  calls  for  sweet  Tm'lTr  or  cream,  and  you  do  not  have  it,  you 
may  use  in  place  of  it  som*  milk  or  cream,  and,  in  that  case,  baking-powder  or 
cream  of  tartar  must  not  be  used,  but  baking-soda,  using  a  2et;e2  teaspoonful  to 
a  quart  of  sour  milk;  the  milk  is  always  best  when  just  turned,  so  that  it  is 
solid,  and  not  sour  enough  to  whey  or  to  be  watery. 

When  making  biscuits  or  bread  with  baking-powder  or  soda  and  cream 
tartar,  the  oven  should  be  prepared  first;  the  dough  handled  quickly  and  put 
into  the  oven  immediately,  as  soon  as  it  becomes  the  proper  lightness,  to  ensiu« 
good  success.    If  the  oven  is  too  slow,  the  article  baked  will  be  heavy  and  hard. 

As  in  beating  cake,  never  stir  ingredients  into  batter,  but  beat  them  in,  by 
beating  down  from  the  bottom,  and  up,  and  over  again.  This  laps  the  air  into 
the  batter,  which  produces  little  air-cells  and  causes  the  dough  to  puff  and  swell 
as  it  comes  in  contact  with  the  heat  while  cooking. 

TO    RENEW  STALE  ROLLS. 

To  freshen  stale  biscuits  or  rolls,  put  them  into  a  steamer  for  ten  minutes, 
then  dry  them  off  in  a  hot  oven;  or  dip  each  roU  for  an  instant  in  cold  water  and 
heat  them  crisp  in  the  oven. 

WARM  BREAD  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Dough,  after  it  has  become  once  sufSciently  raised  and  perfectly  light,  cannot 
afterwards  be  injured  by  setting  aside  in  any  cold  place  where  it  cannot  freeze; 
therefore,  biscuits,  rolls,  etc.,  can  be  made  late  the  day  before  wanted  for  break- 
fast. Prepare  them  ready  for  baking  by  molding  them  out  late  in  the  evening; 
lay  them  a  Uttle  apart  on  buttered  tins;  cover  the  tins  with  a  doth,  then  fold 
around  that  a  newspaper,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air,  as  that  has  a  tendency  to 
cause  the  crust  to  be  hard  and  thick  when  baked.  The  best  place  in  summer 
is  to  place  them  in  the  ice-box,  then  all  you  have  to  do  in  the  morning  (an  hour 
before  breakfast  time,  and  while  the  oven  is  heating)  is  to  bring  them  from 
the  ice-box,  take  off  the  cloth  and  warm  it,  and  place  it  over  them  again;  then 
set  the  tins  in  a  warm  place  near  the  fire.    This  will  give  them  time  to  rise  and 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS^  ETC.  223 

bake  when  needed.  If  these  directions  are  followed  rightly,  you  will  find  it 
makes  no  difference  with  their  lightness  and  goodness,  and  you  can  always  be 
sure  of  warm  raised  biscuits  for  breakfast  in  one  hour's  time. 

Stale  rolls  may  be  made  light  and  flakey  by  dipping  for  a  moment  in  cold 
wat»,  and  placing  immediately  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  be  made  ciisp  and  hot. 


teaspoonful 


SODA  BISCUIT. 

le  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls 


of  butter,  and  wet  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Two  pints  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  make  a  soft  dough  of  sweet  Tnillr  or 
water,  knead  as  little  as  possible,  cut  out  with  the  usual  biscuit-cutter  and  bake 
in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

SOUR  MILK  BISCUIT. 

Bub  into  a  quart  of  sifted  flour  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  tea. 
spoonful  of  salt;  stir  into  this  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  stir  into  the  milk  just  as  you  add  it  to  the  flour;  knead  it  up  quickly, 
roll  it  out  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter;  bake  im- 
mediately in  a  quick  oven. 

Very  nice  biscuit  may  be  made  with  sour  cream  without  the  butter  by  the 
same  process. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

Sift  two  quarts  of  flour  in  a  mixing-pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  pour  into  this  one  pint  of  warm  water  or  new  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  cup  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  then  add  half  a  cup- 
ful of  yeast,  after  which  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  you  can  conveniently  with 
your  hand,  let  it  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  nearly  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  more  flour  as  is  needed  to  make  a  rather  soft  dough;  then  mold  fif- 
teen to  twenty  minutes,  the  longer  the  better;  let  it  rise  until  light  again,  roll 
this  out  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  or  make  it 
into  little  balls  with  your  hands;  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
light,  bake  a  li^t  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bub  a  little  warm  butter  or  sweet 
lard  on  the  sides  of  the  biscuits  when  you  place  them  on  the  tins,  to  pirevent 
their  sticking  together  when  baked. 


224  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

LIGHT  BISCUIT.    No.  x. 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  that  will  make  about  as  many  biscuits  as  you 
wish;  lay  it  out  rather  flat  in  a  bowl;  break  into  it  two  e^s;  half  a  cup  of 
sugai',  half  a  cup  of  butter;  rmV  this  thoroughly  with  enough  flour  to  keep  it 
fix>m  sticking  to  the  hands  and  board.  Knead  it  well  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  make  into  small  biscuits,  place  in  a  greased  pan,  and  let  them  rise  until 
about  even  with  the  top  of  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  half  an 
hour. 

These  can  be  made  in  the  form  of  rolls,  which  some  prefer. 

LIGHT  BISCUIT.    No.  2. 

When  you  bake  take  a  pint  of  sponge,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  foam.  Let  rise  un- 
til light,  mold  into  biscuits,  and  when  light  bake. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS,  WITH  YEAST. 

Take  one  pint  of  water  or  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  yeast,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  take  enough  wheat 
flour  to  use  up  the  water,  making  it  the  consistency  of  batter-cakes;  add  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon; 
set  it  away  tiU  morning;  in  the  morning,  grease  a  i)an,  flour  your  hands,  take  a 
lump  of  dough  the  size  of  an  egg,  roll  it  lightly  between  the  palms  of  your 
hands,  let  them  rise  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven. 

EGG  BISCUIT. 

Sift  together  a  quart  of  dry  flour  and  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.  Rub  into  this  thoroughly  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  to- 
gether quickly  into  a  soft  dough,  with  one  cup  of  milk,  or  more  if  needed.  Boll 
out  nearly  half  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  biscuits,  and  bake  immediately  in  a 
quick  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  boiled  and  cooled;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  one- 
half  cupful  of  fresh  yeast;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  pinch  of  salt,  and  two 
quarts  of  sifted  flour. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  warm  milk,  then  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour,  and  let 
it  rise  over  night.    Mix  leather  soft.    In  the  morning,  add  to  this  half  of  a  tea- 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFJrNS,  ETC.  225 

spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water.  Mix  in  enough  flour  to  make 
the  same  stiffness  as  any  biscuit  dough;  roU  out  not  more  than  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  large  round  cutter;  spread  soft  butter  over  the  tops  and 
fold  one-half  over  the  other  by  doubling  it.  Place  them  apart  a  little  so  that 
there  will  be  room  to  rise.  Cover,  and  place  them  near  the  fire  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  before  baking.    Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.     (Unfermented.) 

These  rolls  are  made  with  baking-powder,  and  are  much  sooner  made,  although 
the  preceding  recipe  is  the  old  original  one  from  the  "Parker  House.'*  Stir 
into  a  quart  of  sifted  flour  three  large  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  and  a  well-beaten 
egg;  rub  all  well  into  the  flour,  pour  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  mix  up  quickly  into 
a  smooth  dough,  roll  it  out  less  than  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  large  biscuit- 
cutter,  spread  soft  butter  over  the  top  of  each,  fold  one  half  over  the  other  by 
doubling  it,  lay  them  a  Uttle  apart  on  greased  tins.  Set  them  immediately  in  a 
pretty  hot  oven.  Bub  over  the  tops  with  sweet  milk  before  putting  in  the  oven, 
to  give  them  a  glaze. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed  in  equal  propor- 
tions, one-half  cup  of  good  yeast,  or  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  a  tea- 
Bpoonful  of  salt.  Add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  it  rise  over 
night;  in  the  morning,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs;  knead  thoroughly,  and  let  it 
rise  again.  With  the  hands,  make  it  into  balls  as  large  as  an  egg;  then  roll  be- 
tween the  hands  to  make  long  rolls y  (about  three  inches.)  Place  close  together 
in  even  rows  on  well-buttered  pans.  Cover  and  let  them  rise  again,  then  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  lard, 
-one  egg;  make  up  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or,  if  milk  is  not  to  be  had,  plain 
water  will  answer;  beat  well  until  the  dough  blisters  and  cracks;  pull  off  a  two- 
inch  square  of  the  dough;  roll  it  into  a  ball  with  the  hand;  flatten,  stick  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

It  is  not  beating  hard  that  makes  the  biscuit  nice,  but  the  regularity  of  the 
motion.  Beating  hard,  the  old  cooks  say,  kills  the  dough.  An  old-fashioned 
.Southern  recipe. 

15 


226  BREAJD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

POTATO  BISCUIT. 

Boil  six  good-sized  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on;  take  them  out  -with  a 
skimmer,  drain  and  squeeze  with  a  towel  to  ensure  being  dry;  then  remove  the 
skin,  mash  them  perfectly  free  from  lumps,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
egg,  and  a  pint  of  sweet  milk.  When  cool,  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  yeast.  Put  in 
just  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  When  this  rises,  make  into  small 
cakes.    Let  them  rise  the  same  as  biscuit  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

This  dough  is  very  fine,  dropped  into  meat  soups  for  pot-pie. 

VINEGAR  BISCUITS. 
Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  one  laige  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  vinegar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  put  the  soda  in  the 
vinegar  and  stir  it  well;  stir  in  the  flour;  beat  two  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  it; 
make  a  dough  with  warm  water  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  and  cut  with  a 
biscuit-cutter  one  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  qaich  oven. 

GRAFTON  MILK  BISCUITS. 

Boil  and  mash  two  white  potatoes;  add  two  teaspoonf uls  of  brown  sugar; 
pour  boiling  water  over  these,  enough  to  soften  them.  When  tepid,  add  one 
small  teacupful  of  yeast;  when  light,  warm  three  ounces  of  butter  in  one  pint  of 
milk,  a  httle  salt,  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  andflour  enough  to  make  stiff 
sppnge;  when  risen,  work  it  on  the  board;  put  it  back  in  the  tray  to  rise  again; 
when  risen,  roll  into  cakes,  and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour.  Bake  in  a  qaich 
oven.    These  biscuits  are  fine. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Warm  one-half  cupful  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt» 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  seven  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  and 
when  the  mixture  is  blood  warm,  add  four  beaten  eggs,  and  last  of  all,  half  a 
cup  of  good  lively  yeast.  Beat  hard  until  the  batter  breaks  in  blisters.  Set  it  to 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  i^  it  into 
the  batter  and  turn  it  into  a  well-buttered,  shallow  dish  to  rise  again  about  flf- 
teen  or  twenty  minutes.    Bake  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

The  cake  should  be  torn  apart,  not  cut;  cutting  with  a  knife  makes  warm 
bread  heavy.  Bake  a  light  brown.  This  cake  is  frequently  seen  on  Southern 
tables. 

SALLY  LUNN.    (Unfermcnted.) 

Bub  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  into  a  quart  of  flour;  add  a  tumbler 
of  milk,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar,  three  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking 


BREAD— BISCUITS^  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  22T 

powder,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Scatter  the  baking-powder,  salt  and  sugar 
into  the  flour;  add  the  ^ggs,  the  butter,  melted,  the  milk.  Stir  all  together,  and 
bake  in  well-greased  roxmd  pans.    Eat  warm  with  butter. 

LONDON  HOT-CROSS  BUNS. 

Three  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  yeast,  or  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved  in  a  cup  of  tepid  water,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter;  set  this 
as  a  si)onge  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.  Eaiead  well  and  set  to  rise  for 
five  hours.  Boll  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  in  round  cakes,  and  lay  in 
rows  in  a  buttered  baking-pan,  and  let  the  cakes  stand  half  an  Lorn:;  or  until 
light;  then  put  them  in  the  oven,  having  first  made  a  deep  cross  on  each  with 
a  knife.  Bake  a  light  brown,  and  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff  with 
powdered  sugar. 

RUSKS,  WITH  YEAST. 

In  one  large  coffee-cup  of  warm  milk,  dissolve  half  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast,  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  home-made  yeast;  to  this  add  three  well-beaten, 
eggs,  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  these  together. 
Use  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth,  light  dough,  let  it  stand  until  very  light^. 
then  knead  it  in  the  form  of  biscuits;  place  them  on  buttered  tins,  and  let  them 
rise  until  they  are  almost  up  to  the  edge  of  the  tins;  pierce  the  top  of  each  one,, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Glaze  the  tops  of  each  with  sugar  and  milk,  or  the 
white  of  an  egg,  before  baking.  Some  add  dried  ciurants,  well- washed  and 
dried  in  the  oven. 

RUSKS. 

Two  cups  of  raised  dough,  one  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  well  beaten: 
eggs,  floiu*  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  set  to  rise,  and  when  light,  mold  into 
high  biscuit,  and  let  rise  again;  rub  damp  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  top  and 
place  in  the  oven.    Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

RUSKS.    (Unfermented.) 

Three  cups  of  flour  sifted,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three 
eggs^  half  a  nutmeg  grated  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  two  sn^iall 
cups  of  milk;  sift  together  salt,  flour,  sugar  and  baking-powder;  rub  in  the  but- 
ter cold;  add  the  milk,  beaten  eggs  and  spices;  rnix  into  a  soft  dough,  break  off 


22S  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

pieces  about  as  large  as  an  egg,  roll  them  under  the  hands  into  round  balls,  rub 
■the  tops  with  sugar  and  water  mixed,  and  then  spnnkle  dry  sugar  over  them. 
Sake  inmiediately. 

SCOTCH  SCONES 

Thoroughly  mix,  while  dry,  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  loosely  measured,  with 
two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  then  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
oold  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Be  sure  that  the  butter  is  well  worked 
m.  Add  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  very  soft  paste.  BoU  out  the  paste  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  using  plenty  of  flour  on  the  paste-board,  and  rolling- 
pin.  Cut  it  into  triangular  pieces,  each  side  about  four  inches  long.  Flour  the 
sides  and  bottom  of  a  biscuit-tin,  and  place  the  pieces  on  it.  Bake  immediately 
:in  a  quick  oven  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  When  half  done,  brush  over 
with  sweet  milk.  Some  cooks  prefer  to  bake  them  on  a  floured  griddle,  and  cut 
them  a  round  shape  the  size  of  a  saucer,  then  scarred  across  to  form  four 
'Quarters. 

CRACKNELS. 

Two  cups  of  rich  milk,  four  tablespoonf uls  of  butter  and  a  gill  of  yeast,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  warm,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  light  dough.  When 
light,  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  long  pieces  three  inches  wide,  prick  well  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  They  are  to  be  mixed  rather  hard,  and  rolled  very 
4hin,  like  soda  crackers. 

RAISED  MUFFINS.   No.  z. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  of 
«alt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  sweet  lard,  and  a  half  cup  of  yeast;  add  flour 
enough  to  make  it  moderately  thick;  keep  it  in  a  warm,  not  hot^  place,  until  it  is 
quite  light,  then  stir  in  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
:6oda,  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  warm  water.  Let  the  batter  stand  twenty-flve  or  thirty 
minutes  longer  to  rise  a  little,  turn  into  well-greased  muffin-rings  or  gem-pans, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

To  be  served  hot,  and  torn  open,  instead  of  cut  with  a  knife. 

RAISED  MUFFINS.   No.  2. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two 
Tieaping  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  a 
-quart  of  milk;  warm  the  milk  with  the  butter  in  it;  cool  a  little,  stir  in  the 
sugar  and  add  a  little  salt;  stir  this  gradually  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  eggs 
well-beaten;  dissolve  the  yeast  in  half  a  cup  of  luke-warm  water  and  add  to  the 


BREAD— BISCUlTSy  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  229 

other  ingredients;  if  the  muffins  are  wanted  for  luncheon,  mix  them  about 
eight  o'clock  in  the  morning;  if  for  breakfast,  set  them  at  ten  o'clock  at  night; 
when  ready  for  baking,  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  hot  water;  butter  the  muflfin-ring  or  gem-irons,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

EGG  MUFFINS.    (Fine.) 

One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  twice;  three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately, three  teacups  of  sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Sift  together  flom*,  sugar,  salt  and  baking-powder;  rub  in  the 
lard  cold,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  milk;  mix  quickly  into  a  smooth  batter,  a 
little  firmer  than  for  griddleKakes.  Grease  well  some  mufSn-pans,  and  fill  them 
two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  These,  made 
of  cream,  omitting  the  butter,  are  excellent. 

PLAIN  MUFFINS. 

One  ^g,  well-beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  all  beaten  imtil  very  light.  One  cup  of  milk,  three 
of  sifted  flour,  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  One-half  Graham  and 
one -half  rye  meal  may  be  used  instead  of  wheat  flour,  or  two  cups  of  corn-meal 
and  one  of  flour. 

Drop  on  well-greased  patty-pans  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  rather  quick 
oven,  or  bake  on  a  griddle  in  muffin-rings. 

MUFFINS  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  quart  of  buttermilk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  a  little 
salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  hot  gem-pans  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  will  make  them  a 
little  richer. 

TENNESSEE  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  corn-meal,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  three  of  baking-powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  two 
eggs,  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  com-meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  pow- 
der; rub  in  lard  or  butter  cold,  and  eggs  beaten  and  milk;  mix  into  batter  of 
consistence  of  cup-cake;  muflfin-rings  to  be  cold  and  well-greased,  then  fill  two- 
thirds  full.    Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 


220  BREAD. 

BOSTON  CORN  BREAD. 
One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  molassesv, 
one  of  wheat  flour,  four  of  corn-meal  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  steam  for 
three  hours,  and  brown  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.    The  same  made  of  sweetv 
milk  and  baking-powder  is  equally  as  good. 

INDIAN  LOAF  CAKE. 

Mix  a  teacupful  of  powdered  white  sugar  with  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  and  cut. 
up  in  the  milk  two  ounces  of  butter,  adding  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. '   Put  this, 
mixture  into  a  cohered  pan  or  skillet,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  till  it  is  scalding  hot. 
Then  take  it  off,  and  scald  with  it  as  much  yellow  Indian  meal  (previously  sifted) 
as  will  make  it  of  the  consistepce  of  thick  boiled  mush.    Beat  the  whole  very 
hard  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  set  it  away  to  cool. 

While  it  is  cooling,  beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  mixture  when  it  is  about  as  warm  as  new  milk.  Add  a  teacupful  of  good 
strong  yeast,  and  beat  the  whole  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  for  much  of  the 
goodness  of  this  cake  depends  on  its  being  long  and  well-beaten.  Then  have 
ready  a  tin  mold  or  earthen  pan  with  a  pipe  in  the  centre,  (to  diffuse  the  heat 
through  the  middle  of  the  cake).  The  pan  must  be  very  well-buttered,  as  Indian 
meal  is  apt  to  stick.  Put  in  the  mixture,  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to. 
rise.  It  should  be  light  in  about  four  hours.  Then  bake  it  two  hours  in  a: 
moderate  oven.  When  done,  turn  it  out  with  the  broad  surface  downwards, 
and  send  it  to  table  hot  and  whole.     Cut  it  into  sUces  and  eat  it  with  butter. 

This  wiU  be  found  an  excellent  cake.  If  wanted  for  breakfast,  mix  it,  and 
set  it  to  rise  the  night  before.  If  properly  made,  standing  all  night  will  not 
injure  it.    like  all  Indian  cakes,  (of  which  this  is  one  of  the  best),  it  should  be 

eaten  warm. 

— St,  Charlss  Hotel,  New  Orleans. 

JOHNNIE  CAKE. 

Sift  one  quart  of  Indian  meal  into  a  pan;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  pour 

in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  with  a  spoon  mix  the 

meal  and  water  gradually  into  a  soft  dough;  stir  it  very  briskly  for  a  quarter  of 

an  hour  or  more,  tiU  it  becomes  light  and  spongy;  then  spread  the  dough  smooth 

and  evenly  on  a  straight,  flat  board  (a  piece  of  the  head  of  a  flour-barrel  will 

serve  for  this  purpose);  place  the  board  nearly  upright  before  an  open  fire,  and 

put  an  iron  against  the  back  to  support  it;  bake  it  well;  when  done,  cut  it  in, 

squares;  send  it  hot  to  table,  split  and  buttered. 

— OW  Plantation  Style. 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  221 

SPIDER  CORN-CAKE. 

Beat  two  eggs  and  one-fourth  cup  sugar  together.  Then  add  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  and  one  cup  of  sour  milk  in  which  you  have  dissolved  one  teaspoonf  ul 
soda.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Then  mix  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  granu- 
lated com-meal  and  one-third  cup  flour  with  this.  Put  a  spider  or  skillet  on  the 
range,  and  when  it  is  hot  melt  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Turn  the  spider 
so  that  the  butter  can  run  up  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Pour  in  the  corn-cake 
mixture  and  add  one  more  cup  of  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  stir  afterwards.  Put 
this  in  the  oven  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty-five  minutes.  When  done,  there 
should  be  a  streak  of  custard  through  it. 

SOUTHERN  CORN-MEAL  PONE  OR  CORN  DODGERS. 

Mix  with  cold  water  into  a  soft  dough  one  quart  of  southern  com-meal, 
sifted,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard  melted.  Mold 
into  oval  cakes  with  the  hands  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  in  well-greased 
pans.    To  be  eaten  hot.    The  crust  should  be  brown. 

RAISED  POTATO-CAKE. 

Potato-cakes,  to  be  served  with  roast  lamb  or  with  game,  are  made  of  equal 
quantities  of  mashed  potatoes  and  of  flour,  say  one  quart  of  each,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  Uttle  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  for  giidclle- 
cakes;  to  this  allow  half  a  teacupful  of  fresh  yeast;  let  it  rise  till  it  is  light  and 
bubbles  of  air  form;  then  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  spoonful  of 
warm  water  and  add  to  the  batter;  bake  in  mufiSn  tins.  These  are  good  also 
with  fricasseed  chicken;  take  them  from  the  tins  and  drop  in  the  gravy  just 
before  sending  to  the  table. 


Biscuits,  IRoIIs,  /IDufHns,  iStc 

GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS. 

In  making  batter -cakes,  the  ingredients  should  be  put  together  over  night  to 
rise,  and  the  eggs  and  butter  added  in  the  morning;  the  butter  melted  and  eggs 
weU-beaten.  If  the  batter  appears  sour  in  the  least,  dissolve  a  little  soda  and 
stir  into  it;  this  shoold  be  done  early  enough  to  rise  some  time  before  baking. 

Water  can  be  \rieA  in  place  of  milk  in  all  raised  dough,  and  the  dough  should 
be  thoroughly  ligH  before  making  into  loaves  or  biscuits;  then  when  molding 


222  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

them,  use  as  Utile  flour  as  possible;  the  kneading  to  be  done  when  first  made 
from  the  sponge,  and  should  be  done  well  and  for  some  length  of  time,  as  this 
makes  the  pores  fine,  the  bread  cut  smooth  and  tender.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  get  the  dough  too  stiff. 

Where  any  recipe  calls  for  baking-powder,  and  you  do  not  have  it,  you  can 
use  cream-tartar  and  soda,  in  the  proportion  of  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  to 
two  of  cream-tartar. 

When  the  recipe  calls  for  sweet  milk  or  cream,  and  you  do  not  have  it,  you 
may  use  in  place  of  it  sour  TniUr  or  cream,  and,  in  that  case,  baking-powder  or 
cream  of  tartar  must  not  be  used,  but  baking-soda,  using  a  Uvd  teaspoonful  to 
a  quart  of  sour  milk;  the  Tnillr  is  always  best  when  just  turned,  so  that  it  is 
solid,  and  not  sour  enough  to  whey  or  to  be  watery. 

When  making  biscuits  or  bread  with  baking-powder  or  soda  and  cream 
tartar,  the  oven  should  be  prepared  first;  the  dough  handled  quickly  and  put 
into  the  oven  immediately,  as  soon  as  it  becomes  the  proper  hghtness,  to  ensure 
good  success.    If  the  oven  is  too  slow,  the  article  baked  will  be  heavy  and  hard. 

As  in  beating  cake,  never  stir  ingredients  into  batter,  but  beat  them  in,  by 
beating  down  from  the  bottom,  and  up,  and  over  again.  This  laps  the  air  into 
the  batter,  which  produces  little  air-cells  and  causes  the  dough  to  puff  and  swell 
as  it  comes  in  contact  with  the  heat  while  cooking. 

TO    RENEW  STALE  ROLLS. 

To  freshen  stale  biscuits  or  rolls,  put  them  into  a  steamer  for  ten  minutes, 
then  dry  them  off  in  a  hot  oven;  or  dip  each  roll  for  an  instant  in  cold  water  and 
heat  them  crisp  in  the  oven. 

WARM  BREAD  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Dough,  after  it  has  become  once  sufficiently  raised  and  perfectly  light,  cannot 
afterwards  be  injured  by  setting  aside  in  any  cold  place  where  it  cannot  freeze; 
therefore,  biscuits,  roUs,  etc.,  can  be  made  late  the  day  before  wanted  for  break- 
fast. Prei>are  them  ready  for  baking  by  molding  them  out  late  in  the  evening; 
lay  them  a  little  apart  on  buttered  tins;  cover  the  tins  with  a  cloth,  then  fold 
around  that  a  newspaper,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air,  as  that  has  a  tendency  to 
cause  the  crust  to  be  hard  and  thick  when  baked.  The  best  place  in  summer 
is  to  place  them  in  the  ice-box,  then  all  you  have  to  do  in  the  morning  (an  hour 
before  breakfast  time,  and  while  the  oven  is  heating)  is  to  bring  them  from 
the  ice-box,  take  off  the  doth  and  warm  it,  and  place  it  over  them  again;  then 
set  the  tins  in  a  warm  place  near  the  fire.    This  will  give  them  time  to  rise  and 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS^  ETC.  223 

bake  when  needed.  If  these  directions  are  followed  rightly,  you  will  find  it 
makes  no  difference  with  their  lightness  and  goodness,  and  you  can  always  be 
sure  of  warm  raised  biscuits  for  breakfast  in  one  hour's  time. 

Stale  rolls  may  be  made  light  and  flakey  by  dipping  for  a  moment  in  cold 
water,  and  placing  immediately  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  be  made  crisp  and  hot. 


teaspoonful 


SODA  BISCUIT. 

le  teaspoonful  of  soda»  two  teaspoonfuls 


of  butter,  and  wet  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Two  pints  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  make  a  soft  dough  of  sweet  TnilTr  or 
water,  knead  as  Uttle  as  possible,  cut  out  with  the  usual  biscuit-cutter  and  bake 
in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

SOUR  MILK  BISCUIT. 

Bub  into  a  quart  of  sifted  flour  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  ot  an  egg,  one  tea. 
spoonful  of  salt;  stir  into  this  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  stir  into  the  milk  just  as  you  add  it  to  the  flour;  knead  it  up  quickly, 
roll  it  out  nearly  half  an  inch  thicks  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter;  bake  im- 
mediately in  a  quick  oven. 

Very  nice  biscuit  may  be  made  with  sour  cream  without  the  butter  by  the 
same  process. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

Sift  two  quarts  of  flour  in  a  mixing-pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  pour  into  this  one  pint  of  warm  water  or  new  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  cup  of  melted  lead  or  butter,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  then  add  half  a  cup* 
ful  of  yeasty  after  which  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  you  can  conveniently  with 
your  hand,  let  it  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  nearly  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda^  and  more  flour  as  is  needed  to  make  a  rather  soft  dough;  then  mold  fif- 
teen to  twenty  minutes,  the  longer  the  better;  let  it  rise  until  light  again,  roll 
this  out  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  or  make  it 
into  Uttie  balls  with  your  hands;  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
light,  bake  a  light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bub  a  little  warm  butter  or  sweet 
lard  on  the  sides  of  the  biscuits  when  you  place  them  on  the  tins,  to  pirevem 
their  sticking  together  when  baked. 


234  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

fill  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk  or  cold  water,  added  last;  then  bake  on  a  hot  griddle^ 
well  greased,  brown  on  both  sides. 

CORN-MEAL  GRIDDLE-CAKES.  (With  Yeast.) 
Stir  into  one  quart  of  boiling  TnilTr  three  cups  of  corn-meal;  after  it  cools,  add 
one  cup  of  white  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  home- 
made yeast.  Mix  this  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  or  lard,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda>  dissolved  in  a 
little  water. 

This  batter  should  stand  a  few  minutes,  after  adding  the  butter  and  soda^ 
lihat  it  should  have  time  to  rise  a  little;  in  the  meantime,  the  griddle  could  be 
heating.  Take  a  small  stick  like  a  good-sized  skewer,  wind  a  bit  of  cloth  around 
the  end  of  it,  fasten  it  by  winding  a  piece  of  thread  around  that  and  tying  it 
Arm.  Melt  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard.  Grease  the  griddle  with 
this.  Between  each  batch  of  cakes,  wipe  the  griddle  off  with  a  dean  paper  or 
<2loth,  and  grease  afresh.  Put  the  cakes  on  by  spoonfuls,  or  pour  them  carefully 
from  a  pitcher,  trying  to  get  them  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible.  As  soon  as 
they  begin  to  bubble  all  over  turn  them,  and  cook  on  the  other  side  till  they 
fitop  pufi&ng.  The  second  lot  always  cooks  better  than  the  first,  as  the  griddle 
becomes  evenly  heated. 

CORN-MEAL  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Scald  two  cups  of  sifted  meal,  mix  with  a  cup  of  wheat  flour,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Add  three  weU-beaten  %gs;  thin  the  whole  with  sour  milk  enough 
to  make  it  the  right  consistency.  Beat  the  whole  till  very  light,  and  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  baking-soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  If  you  use  sweet  milk,  use 
two  large  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  instead  of  soda. 

GRIDDLE-CAKES.    (Very  Good.) 

One  quart  of  Graham  flour,  half  a  pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  gfll  of  yeast,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  the  flour  and  meal,  pour  on  enough  warm  water  to 
make  batter  rather  thicker  than  that  for  buckwheat  cakes;  add  the  yeast,  and 
vrhen  light  bake  on  griddle  not  too  hot. 

GRAHAM  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
Mix  together  dry  two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  wheat  flour,  two  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Then  add  three 
«ggs  well-beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter  melted,  and  three  cups  of 
sweet  milk.    Cook  immediately  on  a  hot  griddle. 


BREAD— BISCUlTSy  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  235 

BREAD  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One  quart  of  milk,  boiling  hot;  two  cups  jfine  bread-crumbs,  three  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one-half  t^aspoonf ul  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda, 
dissolved  in  warm  water;  break  the  bread  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  stand 
for  ten  minutes  in  a  covered  bowl,  then  beat  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  well- whipped,  the  butter,  salt,  soda,  and  finally  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
previously  whipped  stiff,  and  add  half  of  a  cupful  of  flour.  These  can  also  be 
made  of  sour  nulk,  soaking  the  bread  in  it  over  night,  and  using  a  little  more 
soda. 

RICE  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one- 
naif  teaspoonful  salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  one  egg,  a 
little  more  than  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder; 
add  rice  free  from  lumps,  diluted  with  beaten  egg  and  milk;  mix  into  smooth 
batter.  Have  griddle  well-heated,  make  cakes  large,  bake  nicely  brown,  and 
serve  with  maple  syrup. 

POTATO  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
Twelve  large  potatoes,  three  heaping  tablespoonf uls  of  flom*,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  or  two  eggs,  two  teacupf uls 
of  boiling  ndlk.  The  potatoes  are  peeled,  washed  and  grated  into  a  Uttle  cold 
water,  (which  keeps  them  white),  then  strain  off  water  and  pour  on  boiling 
nailk,  stir  in  eggs,  salt  and  flour,  mixed  with  the  baking-powder;  if  agreeable, 
flavor  with  a  little  fine  chopped  onion;  bake  like  any  other  pan-cakes,  allowing  a 
little  more  lard  or  butter.  Serve  with  stewed  or  preserved  fruit,  especially  with 
huckleberries. 

GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One  pint  of  milk,  two  cups  grated  green  com,  a  little  salt,  two  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  baking-powder,  fiour  sufficient  to  make  a  batter  to  fry  on  the 
griddle.     Butter  them  hot  and  serve. 

HUCKLEBERRY  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Made  the  same  as  above,  leaving  out  one  cup  of  milk,  adding  one  tablespoon- 
idl  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  huckleberries,  rolled  in  flour.  Blackberries  or  rasp- 
berries can  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

FRENCH  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Beat  together,  until  smooth,  six  eggs  and  a  pint  sifted  flour;  melt  one  ounce 
^f  I. utter,  and  add  to  the  batter,  with  one  ounce  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  milk; 


236  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

beat  untQ  smooth;  put  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  into  a  frying-pan,  slightly 
greased,  spreading  the  batter  evenly  over  the  surface  by  tipping  the  pan  about; 
fry  to  a  light  brown;  spread  with  jelly,  roll  up,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve  hot. 

RAISED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES- 

Take  a  small  crock  or  large  earthen  pitcher,  put  into  it  a  quart  of  warm 
water  or  half  water  and  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt;  then  stir  in  as 
much  buckwheat  flour  as  will  thicken  it  to  rather  a  stiff  batter;  lastly  add  half  a 
cup  of  yeast;  make  it  smooth,  cover  it  up  warm  to  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning, 
add  a  small,  level  teaspoonful  of  soda^  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  warm  water;  this  will 
remove  any  sour  taste,  if  any,  and  increase  the  lightness. 

Not  a  few  object  to  eating  buckwheat,  as  its  tendency  is  to  thicken  the 
blood,  and  also  to  produce  constipation;  this  can  be  remedied  by  making  the 
batter  one-third  corn-meal  and  two-thirds  buckwheat,  which  makes  the  cakes 
equally  as  good.    Many  prefer  them  in  this  way. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES  WITHOUT  YEAST. 

Two  cups  of  buckwheat  flour,  one  of  wheat  flour,  a  Uttle  salt,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  about  equal  parts  of  milk 
and  water  until  the  batter  is  of  the  right  consistency,  then  stir  until  free  from 
lumps.    If  they  do  not  brown  well,  add  a  little  molasses. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Half  a  pint  of  buckwheat  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  corn-meal,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  wheat  flour,  a  Uttle  salt,  two  eggs  beaten  very  Ught,  one  quart  of  new 
milk  (made  a  Uttle  warm,  and  mixed  with  the  eggs  before  the  flour  is  put  in), 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  sweet  lard,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  Set 
it  to  rise  at  night  for  the  morning.  If  in  the  least  sour,  stir  in  before  baking 
just  enough  soda  to  correct  the  acidity.    A  very  nice,  but  more  expensive  recipe. 

SWEDISH  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One  pint  of  white  flour,  sifted;  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately 
to  the  utmost;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt;  one  saltspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
vinegar;  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Beat  the  yolks  light,  add  the  salt,  soda,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  then  the  flour^ 
and  beaten  whites  alternately;  thin  with  more  milk  if  necessary 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  237 

CORN-MEAL  FRITTERS. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  molasses  or  sugar,  one  handful  of  flour,  and  corn-meal  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  lastly,  stir  in  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 
water. 

This  recipe  is  very  nice  made  of  rye  flour. 

CREAM  FRITTERS. 

One  cup  of  cream;  five  ^®3— the  whites  only;  two  full  cups  prepared  flour; 
one  saltEfpoonful  of  nutm^;  a  pinch  of  salt.    Stir  the  whites  into  the  cream  in 


turn  with  the  flour,  put  in  nutmeg  and  salt,  beat  all  up  hard  for  two  minutes. 
The  batter  should  be  rather  thick.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot,  sweet  laixi,  a  spoonful 
of  batter  for  each  fritter.  Drain,  and  serve  upon  a  hot,  clean  napkin.  Eat 
with  jelly  sauce.    Pull,  not  cut,  them  open.    Very  nice. 

CURRANT  FRITTERS. 

Two  cupfuls  dry,  flne,  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour, 
two  cups  of  milk,  one-half  pound  currants,  washed  and  well-dried,  five  eggs 
whipped  very  light,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one 
half  teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  over 
the  bread.  Mix  and  put  in  the  butter.  Let  it  get  cold.  Beat  in  next  the  yolks 
and  sugar,  the  seasoning,  flour,  and  stiff  whites;  finally,  the  currants  dredged 
whitely  with  flour.  The  batter  should  be  thick.  Drop  in  great  sjxwnf uls  into 
the  hot  lard  and  fry.  Drain  them  and  send  hot  to  table.  Eat  with  a  mixture 
of  wine  and  powdered  sugar. 

WHEAT  FRITTERS. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder, 
salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  quite  stiff,  thicker  than  batter-cakes.  Drop  into 
hot  lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 

A  good  Sauce  for  the  Above. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  flour  beaten  together;  half  a  cup  boiling  water;  flavor  with 
extract  lemon  and  boil  until  clear.    Or  serve  with  maple  syrup. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  in  the  proportion  of  one  cup  sweet  milk  to  two  cups  flour,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  table- 
spoonful of  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt;  heat  the  milk  a  little  more  than  milk- 


238  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

warm;  add  it  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar;  then  add  flour  and  whites 
of  the  eggs;  stir  all  together  and  throw  in  thin  slices  of  good  sour  apples,  dip- 
ping the  batter  up  over  them;  drop  into  boiling  hot  lard  in  large  spoonfuls  with 
pieces  of  apple  in  each,  and  fry  to  a  Ught  brown.  Serve  with  maple  syrup,  or  a 
nice  syrup  made  with  clarified  sugar. 

Bananas,  peaches,  sliced  oranges  and  other  fruits  can  be  used  in  the  same 
batter. 

PINE-APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  apple  fritters;  then  pare  one  large  pine-apple,  cut  it  in 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  the  slices  in  halves,  dip  them  into  the  batter 
and  fry  them,  and  serve  them  as  above. 

PEACH  FRITTERS. 

Peel  the  peaches,  split  each  in  two  and  take  out  the  stones;  dust  a  little 
I)owdered  sugar  over  them;  dip  each  piece  in  the  batter,  and  fr}*-  in  hot  fat.  A 
sauce  to  be  served  with  them  may  be  made  as  follows:  Put  an  ounce  of  butter 
in  a  sauce-pan,  and  whisk  it  to  a  cream;  add  four  ounces  of  sugar  gradually. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  to  them  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  a  gill  each  of 
cold  water  and  rum;  stir  this  into  the  luke-warm  batter,  and  allow  it  to  heat 
gradually.  Stir  constantly  until  of  a  smooth,  creamy  consistency,  and  serve. 
The  batter  is  made  as  follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  add  to  them  a  gill 
of  milk,  or  half  of  a  cupful,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  foiu:  ounces  of  flour;  mix.  If 
old  flour  is  used,  a  little  more  milk  may  be  found  necessary. 

GOLDEN-BALL  FRITTERS. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  When  it  boils,  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  sifted  flour, 
stirring  briskly  and  thoroughly.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  and  when  nearly 
cooled,  beat  into  it  six  eggs,  each  one  beaten  separately,  and  added,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  the  batter  between  each.  Drop  the  stiff  dough  into  boiling  lard  by 
teaspoonfuls.    Eat  with  syrup,  or  melted  sugar  and  butter  flavored. 

Stirring  the  boiling  lard  around  and  around,  so  that  it  whirls  when  you 
drop  in  the  fritters,  causes  them  to  assume  a  round  shape  like  balls. 

CANNELONS,  OR  FRIED  PUFFS. 

« 

Half  a  pound  of  puff  paste;  apricot,  or  any  kind  of  preserve  that  may  be 
preferred;  hot  lard. 

Cannelons,  which  are  made  of  puff -paste,  rolled  very  thin,  with  jam  en. 
dosed,  and  cut  out  in  long,  narrow  roUs  or  puffs,  make  a  very  pretty  and 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  239 

elegant  dish.  Make  some  good  puflf  paste,  roll  it  out  very  thin,  and  cut  it  into 
pieces  of  an  equal  size,  about  two  inches  wide  and  eight  inches  long;  place  upon 
each  piece  a  spoonful  of  jam,  wet  the  edges  with  the  white  of  egg-  and  fold  the 
paste  over  ttuice;  sUghfcly  press  the  edges  together,  that  the  jam  may  not  escape 
in  the  frying;  and  when  all  are  prepared,  fry  them  in  boiling  lard  until  of  a  nice 
brown,  letting  them  remain  by  the  side  of  the  fire  after  they  are  colored,  that 
the  paste  may  be  thoroughly  done.  Drain  them  before  the  fii«,  dish  on  a 
d'oyley,  sprinkle  over  them  sifted  sugar,  and  serve.  These  caimelons  are  very 
delicious  made  with  fresh,  instead  of  preserved  fruit,  such  as  strawberries,  rasp- 
berries, or  currants;  they  should  be  laid  in  the  paste,  plenty  of  pounded  sugar 
sprinkled  over,  and  folded  and  fried  in  the  same  manner  as  stated  above. 

GERMAN  FRITTERS. 

Take  slices  of  stale  bread  cut  in  roimds,  or  stale  cake;  fry  themin  hot  lard, 
like  crullers,  to  a  light  brown.  Dip  each  slice  when  fried  in  boiling  milk,  to 
remove  the  grease;  drain  quickly,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  or  spread  with 
preserves.  Pile  on  a  hot  plate,  and  serve.  Sweet  wine  sauce  poured  over  them 
is  very  nice. 

HOMINY  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  pint  of  hot  boiled  hominy,  two  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  thin  it  a  little  with  cold  milk;  when  cold,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder,  mix  thoroughly,  drop  taUespoonfuls  of  it  into  hot 
fat  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Take  three  or  four  good-sized  parsnips.  Boil  them  until  tender.  Maah  and 
season  with  a  Uttle  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  pepper. 
Have  ready  a  plate  with  some  sifted  flour  on  it.  Drop  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
parsnip  in  the  flour  and  roll  it  about  until  well-coated  and  formed  into  a  balL 
When  you  have  a  sufficient  number  ready,  drop  them  into  boiling  drippings  or 
lard,  as  you  woxfld  a  fritter;  fry  a  delicate  brown,  and  serve  hot.  Do  not  put 
them  in  a  covered  dish,  for  that  would  steam  them  and  deprive  them  of  their 
crispness,  which  is  one  of  their  great  charms. 

These  are  also  very  good  fried  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  small  quantity  of  lard 
and  butter  mixed,  turning  them  over  so  as  to  fry  both  sides  brown. 

GREEN-CORN  FRITTERS. 
One  pint  of  grated,  young  and  tender,  green  com,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  or  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  if  milk  is  used,  a  tea- 


340  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  com  by  degrees,  also  the  milk  and 
butter;  thicken  with  just  enough  flour  to  hold  them  together,  adding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder  to  the  flour.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  hot  lard,  drop 
the  com  from  the  spoon  into  the  fat  and  fry  a  light  brown.  They  are  also  nice 
fried  in  butter  and  lard  mixed,  the  same  as  fried  ^gs. 

CREAM  SHORT-CAKE. 

Sift  one  quart  of  fine  white  flour,  rub  into  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar.  Add  a  beaten  egg 
to  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  turn  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  dissolve  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  in  a  spoonful  of  water,  mix  all  together,  handting  as  httle  as  possible; 
roll  lightly  into  two  round  sheets,  place  on  pie-tins,  and  bake  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

This  crust  is  deUdous  for  fruit  short-cakes. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

Make  a  rule  of  baking-powder  biscuit,  with  the  exception  of  a  little  more 
shortening;  divide  the  dough  in  half;  lay  one -half  on  the  molding-board,  (half 
the  dough  makes  one  short-cake),  divide  this  half  again,  and  roll  each  piece  large 
enough  to  cover  a  biscuit-tin,  or  a  large-sized  pie-tin;  spread  soft  butter  over  the 
lower  one,  and  place  the  other  on  top  of  that;  proceed  with  the  other  lump  of 
dough  the  same,  by  cutting  it  in  halves,  and  putting  on  another  tin.  Set  them 
in  the  oven;  when  sufiGLdently  baked  take  them  out,  separate  each  one  by  run- 
ning a  large  knife  through  where  the  cold  soft  butter  was  spread.  Then  butter 
plentifully  each  crust,  lay  the  bottom  of  each  on  earthem  platters  or  dining- 
plates;  cover  thickly  with  a  quart  of  strawberries  that  have  been  previously  pre- 
pared with  sugar,  lay  the  top  crusts  on  the  fruit.  If  there  is  any  juice  left, 
]x>ur  it  around  the  cake.    This  makes  a  deUdous  short-cake: 

Peaches,  raspberries,  blackberries,  and  huckleberries  can  be  substituted  for 
strawberries.    Always  send  to  the  table  with  a  pitcher  of  sweet  cream. 

ORANGE  SHORT-CAKE. 

Peel  two  large  oranges,  chop  them  fine,  remove  the  seeds,  add  half  a  peeled 
lemon,  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Spread  between  the  layers  of  shiort-cake  while 
it  is  hot. 

LEMON  SHORT-CAKE. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  same  as  above  redpe.  While  baking,  take  a  cup 
and  a  quarter  of  water,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  two  lemons,  peel,  juice 
and  pulp^  throwing  away  the  tough  part  of  the  rind;  boil  this  for  some  little 


BREAn—BISCVITSy  ROLLS,  MUFFINS^  ETC.  241 

time;  then  stir  in  three  crackers  rolled  fine;  spht  the  short-cakes  while  hot, 
spread  with  butter,  then  with  the  mixtiu'e.    To  be  eaten  *warra. 

HUCKLEBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  sifted  into  a 
quart  of  flour,  or  enough  to  form  a  thick  batter;  add  a  quart  of  the  huckleberries; 
to  be  baked  in  a  dripper;  cut  into  squares  for  the  table,  and  served  hot  with 
butter.    Blackberries  may  be  used  the  same. 

FRIED  DINNER.ROLLS. 

When  making  light  raised  bread,  save  out  a  piece  of  dough  nearly  the  size 
of  a  small  loaf,  roll  it  out  on  the  board,  spread  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter 
over  it;  dissolve  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water, 
and  pour  that  also  over  it;  work  it  all  well  into  the  dough,  roll  it  out  into  a  sheet 
not  quite  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  it  in  strips  three  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide. 
Lay  them  on  buttered  tins,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place 
until  an  hour  before  dinner-time;  then  set  them  by  the  fire  where  they  will 
become  Ught.  While  they  are  rising,  put  into  a  frying-pan  a  tablespoonful  of 
cold  butter  and  one  of  lard;  when  it  boils  clear  and  is  Ao^,  lay  as  many  of  the 
rolls  in  as  will  fry  nicely.  As  soon  as  they  brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  over 
and  brown  the  other;  then  turn  them  on  the  edges  and  brown  the  sides.  Add 
fresh  grease  as  is  needed.  Eat  them  warm  in  place  of  bread.  Nice  with  warm 
meat  dinner. 

NEWPORT  BREAKFAST-CAKES. 

Take  one  quart  of  dough  from  the  bread,  at  an  early  hour  in  the  mormng; 
break  three  eggs,  separating  yolks  and  whites,  both  to  be  whipped  to  a  light 
froth;  mix  them  into  the  dough,  and  gradually  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  enough  warm  milk  with  it 
tmtil  it  is  a  batter  the  consistency  of  buckwheat  cakes;  beat  it  well,  and  let  it 
rise  until  breakfast-time.  Have  the  griddle  hot  and  nicely  greased,  pour  on  the 
batter  in  small  round  cakes,  and  bake  a  hght  brown,  the  same  as  any  griddle- 
cake. 

PUFF  BALLS. 

A  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  stin-ed  until. soft;  add  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  sour  cream.  Stir  well  together, 
then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  thick  batter.  Drop  a  spoonful  of  this 
into  boiling  water.    Cook  until  the  puffs  rise  to  the  surface.    Dish  them  hot 

16 


2A2  BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

with  melted  butter  turned  over  them.    Nice  accompaniment  to  a  meat  dinner, 
as  a  side-dish — similar  to  plain  maccaroni. 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS. 
Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  one 


Qgg,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit  dough.  Cut  into  narrow  strips,  an 
inch  wide,  and  three  inches  long;  fry  brown  in  hot  lard,  like  doughnuts.  Serve 
hot;  excellent  with  coffee.  Or,  fry  in  a  spider  with  an  ounce  each  of  lard  and 
butter,  turning  and  browning  all  four  of  the  sides. 

ENGLISH  CRUMPETS. 

One  quart  of  warm  milk,  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  when  hght,  add  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water^  and  a  very  little  more  flour;  let 
it  stand  twenty  minutes  or  until  Ught.  Grease  some  muffin  rings,  place  them 
on  a  hot  griddle,  and  fill  them  half  full  of  the  batter;  when  done  on  one  side, 
turn  and  bake  the  other  side.  Butter  them  while  hot;  pile  one  on  another, 
and  serve  immediately. 

PLAIN  CRUMPETS. 

Mix  together  thoroughly,  whiledry,  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  loosely  measurod, 
two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  and  a  little  salt;  then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  dough.  Bake 
quickly  in  mufan-rings  or  patty-pans. 

PREPARED  BREAD-CRUMBS. 

Take  pieces  of  stale  bread,  break  them  in  small  bits,  put  them  on  a  baking- 
pan  and  place  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  watching  closely  that  they  do  not 
scorch;  then  take  them  while  hot  and  crisp  and  roll  them,  crushing  them.  Sift 
them,  using  the  fine  crumbs  for  breading  cutlets,  flsh,  croquettes,  etc.  The 
coarse  ones  may  be  used  for  puddings,  pan-cakes,  etc. 

CRACKERS. 

Sift  into  a  pint  of  flour  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt  and  the  white  of  an  egg 
beaten,  and  one  cup  of  milk;  mix  it  with  more  flour,  enough  to  make  a  very 
stiff  dough,  as  stiff  as  can  be  rolled  out;  pounded  and  kneaded  a  long  time. 

Boll  very  thin,  like  pie-crust,  and  cut  out  either  round  or  square.    Bake  a  light 
brown. 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  243 

Stale  crackers  are  made  crisp  and  better  by  placing  them  in  the  oven  a  few 
moments  before  they  are  needed  for  the  table. 

FRENCH  CRACKERS. 

Six  Q^s,  twelv^e  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  mold  with  flom*,  pounding  and  working  half  an 
hour;  roll  it  thin.    Bake  with  rather  quick  fire. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH  OR  HASTY  PUDDING. 

Put  two  quarts  of  water  into  a  clean  dinner-pot  or  stew-pan,  cover  it,  and 
let  it  become  boiling  hot  over  the  fire;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  take  off 
the  hght  scum  from  the  top,  have  sweet,  fresh  yeUow  or  white  corn-meal;  take 
a  handful  of  the  meal  with  the  left  hand,  and  a  pudding-stick  in  the  right,  then 
with  the  stick,  stir  the  water  around,  and  by  degrees  let  fall  the  meal;  when 
one  handful  is  exhausted,  refill  it;  continue  to  stir  and  add  meal  until  it  is  as 
thick  as  you  can  stir  easily,  or  imtil  the  stick  wiU  stand  in  it;  stir  it  a  while 
longer;  let  the  fire  be  gentle;  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked,  which  will  be  in  half 
anhour,  itwiUbubbleor  puff  up;  turn  it  into  a  deep  basin.  This  is  eaten  cold  or 
hot,  with  milk  or  with  butter,  and  syrup  or  sugar,  or  with  meat  and  gravy, 
the  same  as  potatoes  or  rice. 

FRIED  MUSH. 

Make  it  like  the  above  recipe,  turn  it  into  bread-tins,  and  when  cold  slice  it, 
dip  each  piece  in  fiour  and  fry  it  in  lard  and  butter  mixed  in  the  frying-pan, 
turning  to  brown  well  both  sides.    Must  be  served  hot. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Sift  Graham  meal  slowly  into  boiling  salted  water,  stirring  briskly  until  thick 
as  can  be  stirred  with  one  hand;  serve  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar,  or  butter 
and  syrup.  It  will  be  improved  by  removing  from  the  kettle  to  a  pan,  as  soon 
as  thoroughly  mixed,  and  steaming  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  also  be  eaten 
cold,  or  sliced  and.  fried,  like  corn-meal  mush. 

OATMEAL. 

Soak  one  cup  of  oatmeal  in  a  quart  of  water  over  night,  boil  half  an  hotur  in 
the  morning,  salted  to  taste.  It  is  better  to  cook  it  in  a  dish  set  into  a  dish  of 
boiling  water. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Boil  for  thirty  minutes  one  cup  of  well- washed  rice,  in  a  pint  of  milk;  whip 
into  the  hot  rice  the  following  ingredients:    Two  ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces 


244  BREAD— BISCUITS^  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

of  sugar,  some  salt^  and  when  slightly  cool  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten;  if  too  stiff  pour  in  a  little  more  milk;  when  cold,  roll  into  small  balls 
and  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  fine  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  same  as 
doughnuts.  Or  they  may  be  fried  in  the  frying-pan,  with  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  turning  and  frying  both  sides  brown.    Senre  very  hot. 

HOMINY 

This  form  of  cereal  is  very  little  known  and  consequently  little  appreciated  in 
most  Northern  households.  ^^  Big  hominy"  and  '^little  hominy,"  as  they  are 
called  in  the  South,  are  staple  dishes  there  and  generally  take  the  place  of  oat- 
meal, which  is  apt  to  be  too  heating  for  the  climate.  The  former  is  called 
^^  samp  "  here.  It  must  be  boiled  for  at  least  eight  hours  to  be  properly  cooked, 
and  may  then  be  kept  on  hand  for  two  or  three  days  and  warmed  over,  made 
into  croquettes  or  balls,  or  fried  in  cakes.  The  fine  hominy  takes  two  or  three 
hours  for  proper  cooking,  and  should  be  cooked  in  a  dish  set  into  another  of 
boiling  water,  and  kept  steadily  boiling  until  thoroughly  soft. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES. 

To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  and 
stir  it  well,  adding  by  degrees  a  cupful  otmilk,  till  all  is  made  into  a  soft,  hght 
paste;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Boll  it  into  oval  baUs  with  floured  hands,  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  then  rolled 
in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

The  hominy  is  best  boiled  the  day  or  morning  before  using. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Take  half  or  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  quality  of  rice;  wash  it  in  a 
strainer,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  quart  of  dean  water  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  let  it  boil  slowly  tiU  the  water  is  aU  evaporated — see  that  it  does  not  bum 
— then  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  new  milk;  stir  carefully  from  the  bottom  of  the 
sauce-pan,  so  that  the  upper  grain  may  go  under,  but  do  not  smash  it;  dose 
the  lid  on  your  sauce-pan  carefully  down,  and  set  it  on  a  cooler  part  of  the  fire, 
where  it  will  not  boil;  as  soon  as  it  has  absorbed  the  added  milk,  serve  it  up 
with  fresh  new  milk,  adding  fruit  and  sugar  for  those  who  like  them. 

Another  nice  way  to  cook  rice  is  to  take  one  teacupful  of  rice  and  one 
quart  of  milk,  place  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  from  two  to  three  hours;  when 
nearly  done,  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  You  can  use  sugar  if  you  like.  The  difference  in  the  time  of  cooking 
depends  on  your  rice — ^the  older  the  rice,  the  longer  time  it  takes  to  cook.     * 


BREAD— BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  245 

SAMP,  OR  HULLED  CORN. 

An  old-fashioned  way  of  preparing  hulled  com  was  to  put  a  peck  of  old^ 
dry,  ripe  com  into  a  pot  filled  with  water,  and  with  it  a  bag  of  hard-wood  ashes, 
say  a  quart.  After  soaking  awhile  it  was  boiled  untU  the  skins  or  hulls  came 
off  easily.  The  com  was  then  washed  in  cold  water  to  get  rid  of  the  taste  of 
potash,  and  then  boiled  until  the  kernels  were  soft.  Another  way  was  to  take 
the  lye  from  the  leaches  where  potash  was  made,  dilute  it,  and  boil  the  com 
in  this  until  the  skin  or  hull  came  off.  It  makes  adelicious  dish,  eaten  with  milk 
or  cream. 

CKACKED  WHEAT. 

Soak  the  wheat  over  night  in  cold  water,  about  a  quart  of  water  to  a  cup  of 
wheat;  cook  it  as  directed  for  oatmeal;  should  be  thoroughly  done.  Eaten  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

OAT  FLAKES. 

This  healthful  oat  preparation  may  be  procm^  from  the  leading  grocers, 
and  is  prepared  as  follows:  Put  into  a  double  sauce-pan  or  porcelain-lined  pan 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  it  is  boiling,  add, 
or  rather  stir  in  gradually,  three  ounces  of  flakes.  Keep  stirring  to  prevent 
burning.  Let  it  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Ordinary  oatmeal  requires  two  hours'  steady  cooking  to  make  it  palatable  and 
digestible.  Wheaten  grits  and  hominy,  one  hour,  but  a  half  hour  longer  cooking 
will  not  injure  them,  and  makes  them  easier  of  digestion.  Never  be  afraid  of 
cooking  cereals  or  preparations  from  cereals  too  long,  no  matter  what  the  directions 
on  the  package  may  be. 

STEAMED  OATMEAL. 

To  one  teacupful  oatmeal  add  a  quart  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
put  in  a  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  gradually  heat  and  steam  an  hour 
and  a  half  after  it  begins  to  cook. 

HOMINY. 

Hominy  is  a  preparation  of  Indian  com,  broken  or  ground,  either  large  or 
small,  and  is  an  excellent  breakfast  dish  in  winter  or  summer.  Wash  the 
hominy  thoroughly  in  one  or  two  waters,  then  cover  it  with  twice  its  depth  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  slowly.  If  it  be  the  large  hominy,  simmer 
six  hours;  if  the  smaU  hominy,  simmer  two  hours.  When  the  water  evaporates, 
add  hot  water;  when  done,  it  may  be  eaten  with  cream,  or  allowed  to  become 
cold  and  warmed  up  in  the  frying-pan,  using  a  little  butter  to  prevent  burning. 


246  BREAD— TOAST. 


XCoast 

Toast  should  be  made  of  stale  bread,  or  at  least  of  bread  that  has  been  baked 
a  day.  Cut  smoothly  in  slices,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  thick;  if  the  crust  is 
baked  very  hard»  trim  the  edges  and  brown  very  evenly,  but  if  it  happens  to 
bum,  that  should  be  scraped  oflf.  Toast  that  is  to  be  served  with  anything 
turned  over  it,  should  have  the  slices  first  dipped  quickly  in  a  dish  of  hot  water 
turned  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle,  with  a  little  salt  thrown  in.  Cold  biscuits 
cut  in  halves,  and  the  under  crust  sliced  off,  then  browned  evenly  on  both  sides, 
make  equally  as  good  toast.  The  following  preparations  of  toast  are  almost  all 
of  them  very  nice  dishes,  served  with  a  family  breakfast. 

MILK  TOAST. 
Put  over  the  fire  a  quart  of  milk,  put  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter, 
stir  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  half  a  gill  of  milk;  as  soon  as  the  milk 
on  the  fire  boils,  stir  in  the  fiour,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  all  boil  up  once, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  dip  in  this  slices  of  toasted  bread.  When  all  are 
used  up,  pour  what  is  left  of  the  scalded  milk  over  the  toast.  Cover,  and  send 
to  the  table  hot. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  to  boiling,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg; 
stir  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  smoothly  into  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  and  add  some  of 
the  boiling  milk  to  this;  heat  it  gradually  and  prevent  the  flour  from  lumping; 
then  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  cook  a  few  moments;  salt  to  taste. 
After  taking  from  the  fire  stir  in  a  beaten  egg;  strain  the  mixture  on  to  toast 
lightly  buttered. 

AMERICAN  TOAST. 

To  one  egg  thoroughly  beaten,  put  one  cup  of  sweet  nnillrj  and  a  Uttle  saltv 

to 

Shoe  li^t  bread  and  dip  into  the  mixture,  allowing  each  slice  to  absorb  some  of 
the  milk;  then  brown  on  a  hot,  buttered  griddle  or  thick-bottom  frying-pan; 
spread  with  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

NUNS'  TOAST. 

Cut  four  or  five  hard-boiled  eggs  into  shoes.    Put  a  piece  of  butter  half  the 

size  of  an  egg  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble  add  a  finely 

chopped  onion.    Let  the  onion  cook  a  Uttle  without  taking  color,  then  stir  in  a 

teaspoonful  of  fiour.    Add  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  stir  until  it  becomes  smooth; 


BREAD— TOAST.  247 

then  put  in  the  slices  of  eggs  and  let  them  get  hot.  Pour  over  neatly  trimmed 
slices  of  hot  buttered  toast.  The  sauce  must  be  seasoned  to  taste  with  pepper 
and  salt. 

CHEESE  TOAST.    No.  1. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  an  even,  crisp  brown.  Place  on  a  warm  plate, 
allowing  one  small  slice  to  each  person,  and  pour  on  enough  melted  cheese  to 
cover  them.  Bich  new  cheese  is  best.  Serve  while  warm.  Many  prefer  a  little 
prepared  mustard  spread  over  the  toast  before  putting  on  the  cheese. 

CHEESE  TOAST.    No.  2. 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  fiying-pan;  when  hot,  add  gradually  four 
ounces  of  mild  American  cheese.  Whisk  it  thoroughly  imtil  melted.  Beat 
together  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  two  eggs;  whisk  into  the  cheese,  add  a  little 
salt,  pour  over  the  crisp  toast,  and  serve. 

The  two  above  recipes  are  usually  called  "  Welsh  Barebit. 


>j 


OYSTER  TOAST. 

Select  tiie  large  ones,  used  for  frying,  and  first  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  either  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  and  cook  upon  a  fine  wire  gridiron,  over  a 
quick  fire.  Toast  should  be  made  ready  in  advance,  and  a  rich  cream  sauce 
■»x)ured  over  the  whole.  After  pouring  on  the  sauce,  finely  cut  celery  strewn 
over  the  top  adds  to  their  delicacy. 

Or,  wash  oysters  in  the  shell,  and  put  them  on  hot  coals,  or  upon  the  top  of 
a  hot  stove,  or  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven;  open  the  shells  with  an  oyster-knife, 
taking  care  to  lose  none  of  the  liquor.  Dip  the  toast  into  hot,  salted  water 
quickly,  and  turn  out  the  oyster  and  Uquor  over  the  toast;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  over  each. 

Oysters  steamed  in  the  shell  are  equally  as  good. 

MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Peel  a  quai*t  of  mushrooms,  and  cut  off  a  little  of  the  root  end.  Melt  an 
ounce  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  and  fry  in  it  half  a  pound  of  raw  minced  steak; 
add  two  saltspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  gill  of  hot  water;  fry 
until  the  juices  are  extracted  from  the  meat;  tilt  the  pan  and  squeeze  the  meat 
with  the  back  of  the  spoon  imtil  there  is  nothing  left  but  dry  meat,  then  remove 
it;  add  the  mushrooms  to  the  liquid,  and  if  there  is  not  enough  of  it,  add  more 
butter;  toss  them  about  a  moment  and  poiu*  out  on  hot  toast. 

Some  add  a  little  sherry  to  the  dish  before  removing  from  the  fire. 


?48  BREAD— TOAST. 

TOMATO  TOAST. 
Pare  and  stew  a  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes  until  smooth.    Season  with  salt^ 
pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.    When  done^  add  one  cup  sweet  cream 
and  a  little  flour.    Let  it  scald  but  not  boil;  remove  at  once.    Pour  over  slices 
of  dipped  toast,  well-buttered. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST. 

Various  preparations  of  eggs  can  be  served  on  toast,  first  dipping  slices  of 
well-toasted  bread  quickly  in  hot  salted  water,  then  turning  over  them  scrambled, 
poached  or  creamed  ^ggs,  all  found  in  the  ledpes  among  ^^  Biggs." 

BAKED  EGGS  ON  TOAST. 

Toast  six  slices  of  stale  bread,  dip  them  in  hot  salted  water  and  butter  them 
lightly.  After  arranging  them  on  a  platter  or  deep  plate,  break  enough  eggs  to 
cover  them,  breaking  one  at  a  time,  and  sUp  over  the  toast  so  that  they  do  not 
break;  sprinkle  over  them  salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  over  all  some  kind  of  thick- 
ened gravy — either  chicken  or  lamb,  cream  or  a  cream  sauce  made  the  same  as 
^^  White  Sauce  ";  turn  this  over  the  toast  and  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  untQ 
the  eggs  are  set,  or  about  five  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  either  boiled  or  fried  ham,  chop  it  fine,  mix  it 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  weU-beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  enough 
cream  or  rich  milk  to  make  it  soft,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  until 
it  thickens.  Dip  the  toast  for  an  instant  in  hot,  salted  water;  spread  over  some 
melted  butter,  then  turn  over  the  ham  mixture.    Serve  hot. 

REED  BIRDS  ON  TOAST. 

,  Remove  the  feathers  and  legs  of  a  dozen  reed  birds,  split  them  down  the  back, 
remove  the  entrails,  and  place  them  on  a  double  broiler;  brush  a  little  melted 
butter  over  them,  and  broil  the  inner  side  thoroughly  first;  then  lightly  broil 
the  other  side.  Melt  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  season  it  nicely  with  salt 
«nd  pepper,  dip  the  birds  in  it,  and  arrange  them  nicely  on  slices  of  toast. 

MINCED  FOWLS  ON  TOAST. 

Remove  from  the  bones  all  the  meat  of  either  cold  roast  or  boiled  fowls. 
Clean  it  from  the  skin,  and  keep  covered  from  the  air,  until  ready  for  use.  Boil 
the  bones  and  skin  with  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  water  until  reduced  quite 
half.    Strain  the  gravy  and  let  it  cool.    Next,  having  skimmed  off  the  fat,  put 


BREAD— TOAST.  249 

it  into  a  clean  sauce-pan  with  half  a  cup  of  cream,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter* 
well-mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Keep  these  stirred  imtil  they  boil. 
Then  put  in  the  fowl  finely  minced,  with  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped,  and 
sufficient  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Shake  the  mince  over  the  fire  imtil  just 
ready  to  serve.    Dish  it  over  hot  toast  and  serve. 

HASHED  BEEF  ON  TOAST. 

Chop  a  quantity  of  cold  roast  beef  rather  fine,  and  season  it  well  with  pepper 
and  salt.  For  each  pint  of  meat  add  a  level  tablespoof  ul  of  fiour.  Stir  well,  and 
add  a  small  teacupful  of  soup-stock  or  water.  Put  the  mixtiu^  into  a  small 
stew-pan,  and,  after  covering  it,  simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Meanwhile, 
toast  half  a  dozen  slices  of  bread  nicely,  and  at  the  end  of  the  twenty  minutes 
spread  the  meat  upon  them.  Serve  at  once  on  a  hot  dish.  In  case  water  be 
used  instead  of  soup-stock,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  just  before  spreading  the 
beef  upon  the  toast.    Any  kind  of  cold  meat  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar  manner. 

— Maria  Parha. 
VEAL  HASH  ON  TOAST. 

Take  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water  in  a  sauce-i)an,  stir  in  an  even  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  wet  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  add 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  as  much  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  let  it  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Chop  the  veal  fine,  and  mix  with  it 
half  as  much  stale  bread-crumbs.  Put  it  in  a  pan,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it, 
then  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.    Serve  this  on  buttered  toast. 

CODFISH  ON  TOAST.    (Cuban  Style.) 

Take  a  teacupful  of  freshened  codfish,  picked  up  fine.  Fry  a  sUced  onion 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  when  it  has  turned  a  Ught  brown,  put  in  the  fish 
with  water  enough  to  cover  it;  add  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  or  half  a  dozen  of 
fresh  ones.  Cook  all  nearly  an  hour,  seasoning  with  a  httle  pepper.  Serve 
on  shoes  of  dipped  toast,  hot.    Very  fine. 

Plain  creamed  codfish  is  very  nice  turned  over  dipped  toast. 

HALIBUT  ON  TOAST. 

Put  into  boiling,  salted  water,  one  pound  of  fresh  halibut;  cook  slowly  for 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  done;  remove  from  the  water  and  chop  it  fine;  then  add 
half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  eight  eggs  weU  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Place  over  the  fire  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan  containing  a  tablespoonful  of 
cold  butter;  when  it  begins  to  melt,  tip  the  pan  so  as  to  grease  the  sides;  then 


250  BREAD— TOAST. 

pot  in  the  fish  and  eggs  and  stir  one  way  untQ  the  eggfi  aie  cooked,  bat  not  foe 
haid.    Tam  aver  toast,  dipped  in  hot,  salted  water. 

CHICKEN  HASH  WITH  RICE  TOAST. 

BoQ  a  cop  of  rice  the  night  beforp;  put  it  into  a  square,  narrow  bread-pan, 
set  it  in  the  ice-box.  Next  morning,  cut  it  into  half -inch  slices,  rub  over  each 
slice  a  little  warm  butter,  and  toast  them  on  a  broiler  to  a  delicate  brown.  Ar- 
range the  toast  on  a  warm  platter  and  turn  over  the  whole  a  chicken  hash,  made 
from  the  remains  of  cold  fowl,  the  meat  picked  from  the  bones,  chopped  fine, 
put  into  the  frying-pan,  with  butter,  anda  little  waterto  moisten  it,  addingpep- 
per  and  salt.    Heat  hot  aU  through.    Serve  immediately. 

APPLE  TOAST. 

Cut  SIX  apples  into  quarters,  take  the  core  out,  peel  and  cut  them  in 
slices;  put  in  the  sauce-pan  an  ounce  of  butter,  then  throw  over  the  ^ples 
about  two  ounces  of  white  powdered  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water; 
put  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  let  it  stew  quickly,  toss  them  up,  or  stir  with  a 
spoon;  a  few  minutes  will  do  them.  When  tender,  cut  two  or  three  slices  of 
bread  half  an  inch  thick;  put  in  a  frying-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  put  on  the 
fire;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  put  in  your  bread,  which  fry  of  a  nice  yellowish 
color;  when  nice  and  crisp,  take  them  out,  place  them  on  a  dish,  a  little  white 
sugar  over,  the  apples  about  an  inch  thick.    Serve  hot. 


SUGGESTIONS  IN  REGARD  TO  CAKE  MAKING. 

Use  none  but  the  best  materials,  and  all  the  ingredients  should  be  properl7 
prepared  before  commeaciiig  to  mix  any  of  them.  'Sigf^  beat  up  much  hghter 
and  sooner  by  being  placed  in  a  cold  place  some  time  before  usiog  them;  a  small 
pinch  of  soda  sometimes  has  the  same  effect.  Flour  should  always  be  sifted 
hefore  using  it.  Cream  of  tartar  or  baking-powder  should  be  thoroughly  mixed 
with  the  flour;  butter  be  placed  where  it  will  become  moderately  soft,  but  not 
melted  in  tiie  least,  or  the  cake  will  be  sodden  and  heavy.  Sugar  should  be 
rolled  and  sifted;  spices  ground  or  pounded;  raisins  or  any  other  fruit  boked 
orer  and  prepared;  currants,  especially,  should  be  nicely  washed,  picked,  dried 
in  a  doth,  and  then  carefully  examined,  that  no  pieces  of  grit  or  stone  may  be 
left  amongst  them.  They  should  then  be  laid  on  a  dish  before  the  fire  to  become 
thoroughly  dry;  as,  if  added  damp  to  the  other  ingredients,  cakes  will  be  liable 
to  be  heavy. 

Ej^  should  be  well-beaten,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  the  yolks  to  a 
thick  cream,  the  whites  until  they  are  a  stiff  froth.  Always  stir  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  milk,  the  flavoring,  then 
the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  the  flour.  If  fruit  is  to  be  used,  measure  and 
dredge  with  a  little  sifted  flour,  stir  in  gradually  and  thoroughly. 

Four  all  in  well-buttered  cake-pans.  While  the  cake  is  baking,  care  should 
be  taken  that  no  cold  air  enters  the  oven,  only  when  necessary  to  see  that  the 
cake  is  baking  properly;  the  oven  should  be  an  even^  moderate  heat,  not  too 
cold  or  too  hot;  much  depends  on  this  for  success. 

Cake  is  often  spoiled  for  being  looked  at  too  often  when  first  put  into  the 
oven.  The  heat  should  be  tested  before  the  cake  is  put  in,  which  can  be  done 
by  throwing  on  the  fioor  of  the  oven  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  new  flour.  If  the  flour 
takes  fire,  or  assumes  a  dark-brown  color,  the  temperature  is  too  high,  and  the 


252  CAKES. 

oven  must  be  allowed  to  cool;  if  the  flour  remams  white  after  the  lapse  of  a  few 
seconds,  the  temperature  is  too  low.  When  the  oven  is  of  the  proper  tempera- 
ture, the  flour  will  slightly  brown  and  look  slightly  scorched. 

Another  good  way  to  test  the  heat,  is  to  drop  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  cake, 
batter  on  a  small  piece  of  buttered  letter-paper,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  during 
the  fiTiiflliiTig  of  the  cake,  so  that  the  piece  wiU  be  baked  before  putting  in  the 
whole  cake ;  if  the  little  drop  of  cake-batter  bakes  evenly  without  burning 
around  the  edge,  it  wiU  be  safe  to  put  the  whole  cake  in  the  oven.  Then  again 
if  the  oven  seems  too  hot,  fold  a  thick  brown  paper  double,  and  lay  on  the 
bottom  of  the  oven;  then  after  the  cake  has  risen,  put  a  thick  brown  paper  over 
the  top,  or  butter  well  a  thick  white  paper  and  lay  carefully  over  the  top. 

If,  after  the  cake  is  put  in,  it  seems  to  bake  too  fast,  put  a  brown  paper 
loosely  over  the  top  of  the  pan,  care  being  taken  that  it  does  not  touch  the  cake, 
and  do  not  open  the  door  for  five  minutes  at  least;  the  cake  should  then  be 
quickly  examined,  and  the  door  shut*  carefully,  or  the  rush  of  cold  air  will  cause 
it  to  fall.  Setting  a  amaU  dish  of  hot  water  in  the  oven,  wiU  also  prevent  the 
cake  from  scorching. 

To  ascertain  when  the  cake  is  done,  run  a  broom  straw  into  the  middle  of  it; 
if  it  comes  out  dean  and  smooth,  the  cake  will  do  to  take  out. 

Where  the  recipe  calls  for  baking  powder,  and  you  have  none,  you  can  use 
cream  tartar  and  soda  in  proportion  to  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

When  sour  milk  is  called  for  in  the  redpe,  use  only  soda.  Cakes  made  with 
molasses  bum  much  more  easily  than  those  made  with  sugar. 

Never  stir  cake  after  the  butter  and  sugar  is  creamed,  but  beat  it  down  from 
the  bottom,  up,  and  over;  this  laps  air  into  the  cake- batter,  and  produces  little 
air  cells^  which  causes  the  dough  to  puff  and  swell  when  it  comes  in  contact 
with  the  heat  while  cookrog. 

When  making  most  cakes,  especially  sponge  cake,  the  flour  should  be 
added  by  degrees,  stirred  very  slowly  and  lightly,  for  if  stirred  hard  and  fast  it 
will  make  it  porous  and  tough. 

CaiMs  should  be  kept  in  tight  tin  cake-cans,  or  earthem  jars,  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

Cookies,  jumbles,  ginger-snaps,  etc.,  require  a  quick  oven;  if  they  become 
moist  or  soft  by  keeping,  put  again  into  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

To  remove  a  cake  from  a  tin  after  it  is  baked,  so  that  it  will  not  crack,  break 
or  fall,  first  butter  the  tin  well  all  around  the  sides  and  bottom;  then  cut  a 
piece  of  letter-paper  to  exactly  fit  the  tin,  butter  that  on  both  sides,  placing 


CAKES.  253 

it  smoothly  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  tin.  When  the  cake  is  baked,  let  it 
remain  in  the  tin  until  it  is  cold\  then  set  it  in  the  oven  a  minute,  or  just  long 
enough  to  warm  the  tin  through.  Remove  it  from  the  oven;  turn  it  upside 
down  on  your  hand,  tap  the  edge  of  the  tin  on  the  table  and  it  will  slip  out  with 
ease,  leaving  it  whole. 

If  a  cake-pan  is  too  shallow  for  holding  the  quantity  of  cake  to  be  baked,  for 
fear  of  its  being  so  light  as  to  rise  above  the  pan,  that  can  be  remedied  by 
thoroughly  greasing  a  piece  of  thick  glazed  letter-paper  with  soft  butter.  Place 
or  fit  it  around  the  sides  of  the  buttered  tin,  allowing  it  to  reach  an  inch  or 
more  above  the  top.  If  the  oven  heat  is  moderate,  the  butter  will  preserve  the 
paper  from  burning. 

FROSTING  OR  ICING. 

In  the  first  place,  the  eggs  should  be  cold,  and  the  platter  on  which  they  are 
to  be  beaten  also  cold.  Allow,  for  the  white  of  one  egg,  one  small  teacupful 
of  powdered  sugar.  Break  the  eggs  smd  throw  a  small  handful  of  the  sugar  on 
them  as  soon  as  you  begin  beating;  keep  adding  it  at  intervals  imtil  it  is  all  used 
up.  The  ^ggs  must  not  be  beaten  imtil  the  sugar  has  been  added  in  this  way, 
which  gives  a  smooth,  tender  frosting,  and  one  that  will  dry  much  sooner  than 
the  old  way. 

Spread  with  a  broad  knife  evenly  over  the  cake,  and  if  it  seems  too  thin,  beat 
in  a  little  more  sugar.  Cover  the  cake  with  two  coats,  the  second  after  the  first 
has  become  dry,  or  nearly  so.  If  the  idng  gets  too  dry  or  stiff  before  the  last 
coat  is  needed,  it  can  be  thinned  sufficiently  with  a  little  water,  enough  to  make 
it  work  smoothly. 

A  little  lemon-juice,  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  add,  added  to  the  frost- 
ing while  being  beaten,  makes  it  white  and  more  frothy. 

The  flavors  mostly  used  are  lemon,  vaniUa,  almond,  rose,  chocolate,  and 
orange.  If  you  wish  to  ornament  with  figures  or  fiowers,  make  up  rather  more 
icing,  keep  about  one-third  out  imtil  that  on  the  cake  is  dried;  then,  with  a  clean^ 
glass  syringe,  apply  it  in  such  forms  as  you  desire  and  dry  as  before;  what  you 
keep  out  to  ornament  with  may  be  tinted  pink  with  cochineal,  blue  with  indigo^ 
yellow  with  saffron  or  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  strained  through  a  cloth^ 
green  with  spinach  juice,  and  brown  with  chocolate,  purple  with  cochineal  and 
indigo.    Strawberry,  or  currant  and  cranberry  juices  color  a  deKcate  pink. 

Set  the  cake  in  a  cool  oven  with  the  door  open,  to  dry,  or  in  a  draught  in  an 
open  window. 


254  CAKES. 

ALMOND  FROSTING. 
The  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  up  with  three  cups  of  fine,  white  sugar. 
Blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  aknonds,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  sugar, 
until  a  fine  paste,  then  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla  extract.  Pound 
a  few  minutes  to  thoroughly  mix.  Cover  the  cake  with  a  very  thick  coating  of 
this,  set  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry,  afterwards  cover  with  a  plain  icing. 

« 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs,  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  and  nearly  a  cup  of 
grated  chocolate.  Beat  the  whites  a  very  little,  they  must  not  become  white; 
stir  in  the  chocolate,  then  put  in  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  to  mix  it  well. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Put  into  a  shallow  pan  four  tablespoonfuls  of  scraped  chocolate,  and  place  it 
where  it  will  melt  gradually,  but  not  scorch;  when  melted,  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  one  of  water;  mix  all  well  together,  and  add 
one  scant  teacupful  of  sugar;  boil  about  five  minutes,  and  while  hot,  and  when 
the  cakes  are  nearly  cold,  spread  some  evenly  over  the  surface  of  one  of  the 
cakes;  put  a  second  one  on  top,  alternating  the  mixture  and  cakes;  then  cover 
top  and  sides,  and  set  in  a  warm  oven  to  harden.  All  who  have  tried  recipe 
after  recipe,  vainly  hoping  to  find  one  where  the  chocolate  sticks  to  the  cake 
and  not  to  the  fingers,  will  appreciate  the  above.  In  making  those  most  palat- 
able of  cakes,  ^^  Chocolate  Eclairs,"  the  recipe  just  given  will  be  found  very 
satisfactory. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICING. 
Mix  with  boiled  icing  one  ounce  each  of  chopped  dtron,  candied  cherries, 
seedless  raisins,  candied  pineapple,  and  blanched  almonds. 

SUGAR  ICING. 

To  one  pound  of  extra  refined  sugar,  add  one  ounce  of  fine  white  starch; 
pound  finely  together,  and  then  sift  them  through  gauze;  then  beat  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  froth.  The  secret  of  success  is  to  beat  the  eggs  long  enough, 
and  always  one  way;  add  the  powdered  sugar  by  degrees,  or  it  will  spoil  the 
froth  of  the  eggs.  When  all  the  sugar  is  stirred  in,  continue  the  whipping  for 
half  an  hour  long3r,  adding  more  sugar  if  the  ice  is  too  thin.  Take  a  little 
of  the  Idng  and  lay  it  aside  for  ornamenting  afterward.  When  the  cake  comes 
out  of  the  oven,  spread  the  sugar  icing  smoothly  over  it  with  a  knife,  and  dry 


CAKES.  255 

it  at  ouce  in  a  cool  oven.  For  ornamenting  the  cake^  the  icing  may  be  tinged 
any  color  preferred.  For  pink,  use  a  few  drops  of  cochineal;  for  yellow  a  pinch 
of  saffron,  dissolved;  for  green,  the  juice  of  some  chopped  spinach.  Whichever 
is  chosen,  let  the  coloring  be  first  mixed  with  a  httle  colorless  spirit,  and  then 
stirred  into  the  white  icing  until  the  tint  is  deep  enough.  To  ornament  the  cake 
with  it,  make  a  cone  of  stiff  writing  paper,  and  squeeze  the  colored  icing  through 
it,  so  as  to  form  leaves,  beading  or  letters,  as  the  case  may  be.  It  requires  nicety 
and  care  to  do  it  with  success. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

To  one  pound  of  finest  pulverised  sugar,  add  three  wine-glassfuls  of  clear 
water.  Let  it  stand  until  it  dissolves;  then  boil  it  until  it  is  perfectly  clear  and 
threads  from  the  spoon.  Beat  well  the  whites  of  four  ^gs.  Pour  the  sugar  into 
the  dish  with  the  eggs,  but  do  not  mix  them  imtil  the  syrup  is  luke-warm;  then 
beat  aU  well  together  for  one  half  hour. 

Season  to  yovtr  taste  with  vanilla,  rose-water,  or  lemon-juice.  The  first  coat- 
ing may  be  put  on  the  cake  as  soon  as  it  is  well  mixed.  Rub  the  cake  with  a 
little  flour  before  you  apply  the  icing.  While  the  first  coat  is  drying,  continue 
to  beat  the  remainder;  you  will  not  have  to  wait  long  if  the  cake  is  set  in  a  warm 
place  near  the  fire.    This  is  said  to  be  a  most  excellent  recipe  for  icing. 

FROSTING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

An  excellent  frosting  may  be  made  without  eggs  or  gelatine,  which  wiU  keep 
longer,  and  cut  more  easily,  causing  no  breakage  or  crumbling,  and  withal  is 
very  economical. 

Take  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  dampen  it  with  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  or  five  tablespoonfuls;  place  it  on  the  fire  in  a  suitable  dish,  and  stir  it 
until  it  boils;  then  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes  without  stirring;  remove  it  from 
the  fire  and  set  the  dish  in  another  of  cold  water;  add  flavoring.  While  it  is 
cooling,  stir  or  beat  it  constantly,  and  it  will  become  a  thick,  creamy  frosting. 

GELATINE  FROSTING. 
Soak  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  gelatine  in  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  cold  water  half  an 
hour,  dissolve  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water;  add  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
and  stir  until  smooth. 

GOLDEN  FROSTING. 

A  very  dehcious  and  handsome  frosting  can  be  made  by  using  the  yolks  oE 
eggs  instead  of  the  whites.  Proceed  exactly  as  for  ordinary  frosting.  It  will 
harden  just  as  nicely  as  that  does.    This  is  })articularly  good  for  orange  cake^ 


256  CAKES. 

harmoniziiig  with  the  oolor  of  the  cake  in  a  way  to  please  those  who  love  rioh 
coloring. 

BREAD  OR  RAISED  CAKE. 
Twocupfuls  of  raised  dough;  beat  into  it  two-thirds  of  acup  of  butter  and  two 
cups  of  sugar  creamed  together,  three  ^ggs,  well  beaten,  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  doves,  one  cupt)f  raisios.  Mix  all  well 
together,  put  in  the  beaten  whites  of  e^s  and  raisins  last;  beat  all  hard  for 
several  minutes;  put  in  buttered  pans,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour  to  rise  again 
before  baking.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Half  a  glass  of  brandy  is  an  im- 
provement, if  you  have  it  convenient. 

FRUIT  CAKE.  (Superior.) 
Three  pounds  dry  flour,  one  pound  sweet  butter,  one  poimd  sugar,  three 
poimds  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  sweet 
almonds  blanched,  one  pound  citron,  twelve  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  allspice, 
one  teaspoonful  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  two  nutmegs,  one  wine- 
glass of  wine,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  one  coffee-cupful  molasses  with  the 
spices  in  it;  steep  this  gently  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  not  boiling  hot;  beat  the 
^gs  very  lightly;  put  the  fruit  in  last,  stirring  it  gradually,  also  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water;  the  fruit  should  be  well  floured;  if 
necessary  add  flour  after  the  fruit  is  in;  butter  a  sheet  of  paper  and  lay  it  in  the 
pan.  Lay  in  some  slices  of  citron,  then  a  layer  of  the  mixture,  then  of  citron 
again,  etc.,  till  the  pan  is  nearly  fuH  Bake  three  or  font  hours,  according  to 
the  thickness  of  the  loaves,  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven,  and  with  steady  heat.  Let 
it  cool  in  the  oven  gradually.  Ice  when  cold.  It  improves  this  cake  very  much 
to  add  three  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder  to  the  flour.  A  flne  wedding-cake 
recipe. 

FRUIT  CAKE  BY  MEASURE.    (Excellent) 

Two  scant  teacupfuls  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  dark-brown  sugar,  six  ^SB^ 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  pound  of  raisins,  seeded,  one  of  cur- 
rants, washed  and  dried,  and  half  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin  strips;  also  half 
a  cupful  of  cooking  molasses,  and  half  a  cupful  of  sour  milk.  Stir  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  to  that  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  add  the  molasses 
and  sour  milk.  Stir  all  well;  then  put  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  egg,  a  wine-glass 
of  brandy;  stir  again  all  thoroughly,  and  then  add  fotu*  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
alternately  with  the  beaten  whites  of  ^gg.    Now  dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  <tf 


CAKES. 


257 


soda,  and  stir  in  thoroughly.  Mix  the  fruit  together,  and  stir  into  it  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  then  stir  it  in  the  cake.  Butter  two  common-sized  bak- 
ing-tins  carefully,  line  them  with  letter-paper  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  two  hours.  After  it  is  baked,  let  it  cool  in  the  pan.  Afterward  put 
it  into  a  tight  can,  or  let  it  remain  in  the  pans  and  cover  tighUy.  Best  recipe 
ofaU. 

—Mrs,  S.  a.  Oamp,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  the  whites  of  seven  ^gs,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  one  pound  each  of  seeded  raisins,  figs,  and  blanched  almonds,  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  all  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  thoroughly  before  adding 
the  fruit;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Put  baking-powder  in  the  flour, 
and  mix  it  well  before  adding  it  to  the  other  ingredients.  Sift  a  littie  flour  over 
the  fruit  before  stirring  it  in.  Bake  slowly  two  hours  and  try  with  a  splint  to 
see  when  it  is  done.      A  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  is  a  nice  addition  to  this  cake. 

MOLASSES  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  teacupful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  brown  sugar,  worked  well  together; 
next  two  teacupfuls  of  cooking  molasses,  one  cupful  of  milk  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  it;  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves;  a  Uttle  grated  nutmeg.  Now  add  four  eggs  well- 
beaten,  and  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Flour  a 
cup  of  raisins,  and  one  of  currants;  add  last.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven, 
one  hour.   If  well  covered  will  keep  six  months. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream,  to 
which  add  two  teacupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  again  from  five  to  ten 
minutes,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
flavoring.  Now  add  part  of  the  beaten  whites;  then  two  cups  of  flour  in  which 
you  have  sifted  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  mix  gradually  into  the 
above  ingredients,  stirring  slowly  and  lightly,  only  enough  to  mix  them  well; 
lastiy  add  the  remainder  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  line  the  tins  with  buttered 
paper  and  fill  two-thirds  full. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder;  flavor  with  vanilla.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven« 

17 


258  CAKES. 

ALMOND  SPONGE  CAKE. 

The  addition  of  almonds  makes  this  cake  very  superior  to  the  usual  sponge- 
cake. Sift  one  pint  of  fine  flour;  blanch  in  scalding  water  two  ounces  of  sweet 
and  two  ounces  of  bitter  ahnonds,  renewing  the  hot  water  when  expedient;  when 
the  skins  are  all  off  wash  the  ahnonds  in  cold  water  (mixing  the  sweet  and 
bitter),  and  wipe  them  dry;  pound  them  to  a  fine,  smooth  paste  (one  at  a  time), 
adding,  as  you  proceed,  water  or  white  of  egg  to  prevent  their  boihng.  Set  them 
in  a  cool  place;  beat  ten  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  till  very  smooth 
and  thick,  and  then  beat  into  them  gradually  two  cups  powdered  sugar  in  turn 
with  the  pounded  almonds;  lastly  add  the  floiur,  stirring  it  round  slowly  and 
lightly  on  the  surface  of  the  mixture,  as  in  common  sponge-cake;  have  ready 
buttered  a  deep  square  pan;  put  the  mixture  carefully  into  it,  set  into  the  oven, 
and  bake  till  thoroughly  done  and  risen  very  high;  when  cool,  cover  it  with  plain 
white  idng  flavored  with  rose-water  or  with  almond  icing.  With  sweet 
almonds  always  use  a  small  portion  of  bitter;  without  them,  s^^;66^ almonds  have 
little  or  no  taste,  though  they  add  to  the  richness  of  the  cake. 

Use  two  heaping  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder  in  the  flour. 

OLD-FASHIONED  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sifted  white  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour  measured  before  sifting, 
ten  eggs.  Stir  the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  perfectly  light;  add  a  pinch  of 
salt;  beat  the  whites  of  the  e^s  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  with  the 
flour,  after  beatiag  together  lightly;  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  forty-five  minutes.  Baking-powder  is  an  improvement  to  this  cake, 
using  two  large  teaspoonfuls. 

LEMON  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Into  one  level  cup  of  flour  put  a  level  teaspoonf ul  of  baking-powder  and  sift 
it.  Grate  off  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon.  Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Measure  a  scant  cup  of  white  granulated  sugar  and  beat  it  to  a 
cream  with  the  yolks,  then  add  the  grated  rind  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  the  juice 
of  the  lemon.  Stir  together  imtil  thick  and  creamy;  now  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth;  then  quickly  and  lightly  mix  tutthout  beating  a  third  of  the  flour 
with  the  yolks;  then  a  third  of  the  whites;  then  more  flour  and  whites  imtil  aU 
are  used.  The  mode  of  mixing  must  be  very  light,  rather  cutting  down  through 
the  cake-batter  than  beating  it;  beating  the  eggs  makes  them  light,  but  beating 
the  batter  makes  the  cake  tough.  Bake  immediately  until  a  straw  run  into  it 
can  be  withdrawn  clean. 

This  recipe  is  especially  nice  for  Charlotte  Russe,  being  so  light  and  poroua 


CAKES.  259 

PLAIN  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  together  with  two  cups  of  fine  powdered  sugar. 
Stir  in  gradually  one  cup  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  then  a  cup  of  sifted  flour  in  which  two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder 
have  been  stirred,  and  lastly,  a  scant  teacupf ul  of  boiling  water,  stirred  in  a  little 
at  a  time.  Flavor,  add  salt,  and,  however  thin  the  mixture  may  seem,  do  not 
add  any  more  flour.    Bake  in  shallow  tins. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

Cream  together  one  scant  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar,  add  one  cup 
of  milk,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  twelve  eggs;  sift  three  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking- 
powder  into  one  cup  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and 
beat  in  gradually  with  the  rest;  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  all  thoroughly,  then  put 
in  buttered  tins  Uned  with  letter-paper  well-buttered;  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate 
oven.  A  beautiful  white  cake.  Ice  the  top.  Double  the  recipe  if  more  is 
required. 

ENGLISH  POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
pounded  loaf  sugar,  one  pound  of  currants,  nine  eggs,  two  ounces  of  candied 
peel,  one-half  oimce  of  citron,  one- half  ounce  of  sweet  almonds;  when  hked,  a 
Uttle  pounded  mace.  Work  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  sugar,  then  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  next  the  flour,  currants,  candied  peel,  which  should  be  cut 
into  neat  slices,  and  the  almonds,  which  should  be  blanched  and  chopped,  and 
mix  all  these  well  together;  whisk  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  let  them  be  thoroughly 
blended  with  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  the  cake  well  for  twenty  minutes, 
and  put  it  into  a  round  tin,  lined  at  the  bottom  and  sides  with  strips  of  white 
buttered  paper.  Bake  it  from  two  hours  to  two  and  a  half,  and  let  the  oven  be 
well-heated  when  the  cake  is  first  put  in,  as,  if  this  is  not  the  case,  the  currants 
will  all  sink  to  the  bottom  of  it.  A  glass  of  wine  is  usually  added  to  the  mix- 
ture; but  this  is  scarcely  necessary,  as  the  cake  will  be  found  quite  rich  enough 
without  it. 

PLAIN  POUND  CAKE. 

This  is  the  old-fashioned  recipe  that  our  mothers  used  to  make,  and  it  can  be 
kept  for  weeks  in  an  earthen  jar,  closely  covered,  first  dipping  letter-paper  in 
brandy  and  placing  over  the  top  of  the  cake  before  covering  the  jar 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  pound  of  butter  with  one  poimd  of  sugar,  after  mixing 
wen  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,   one  grated  nutmeg,  one  glass  of 


26o  CAKES. 

wine,  one  glass  of  rose-water.    Then  stir  in  one  pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  the 
well- beaten  whites  of  the  e^s.    Bake  a  nice  light  brown. 

COCOANUT  POUND  CAKE. 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  fi^e 
^gs,  beaten  to  astiff  froth;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar, 
stirred  into  four  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  until  veryhght; 
to  which  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  ^gs,  then 
the  flour  by  degrees.  After  beating  all  well  together,  add  a  small  cocoanut 
grated.  Line  the  cake-pans  with  paper  well  buttered,  and  fill  rather  more  than 
half  fuU,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Spread  over  the  top  a  thin  frosting, 
sprinkled  thickly  with  grated  cocoanut. 

CITRON  POUND  CAKE. 

Stir  two  cups  of  butter  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  the  following  ingredients 
each  one  in  succession:  one  pint  of  powdered  sugar,  one  quart  of  flour,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  eight  %gs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  brandy;  then  last  of  all  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  into  thin 
slices  and  floured.  line  two  cake-pans  with  buttered  paper  and  turn  the  cake- 
batter  in.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

CITRON  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter  creamed  together;  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  or  lemon  extract,  two  heaping  teaftpoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  sifted  with 
four  cups  and  a  half  of  flour.  One  cup  and  a  half  of  citron,  sliced  thin  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Divide  into  two  cakes  and  bake  in  tins  lined  with  buttered 
letter-paper. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  flve  eggs,  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  full  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and 
lastly,  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  juice  to  be  added  the  very  last. 
Bake  in  two  shallow  tins.     When  cold,  ice  with  lemon  idng,  and  cut  into  squares. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  corn-starch,  one  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two 
of  flour,  the  whites  of  seven  eggs;  rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  mix  one 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar  with  the  flour  and  corn-starch;  one  half  teaspoonful 


CAKES.  261 

soda  with  the  sweet  milk;  add  the  milk  and  soda  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  then 
add  flour,  then  the  whites  o£  %gs;  flavor  to  taste.    Never  fails  to  be  good. 

SILVER,  OR  DELICATE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  six  e^s,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  flavoring,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks^  the  milk  and  flavoring,  part  of  the  flour,  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
then  the  rest  of  the  flour.    Bake  carefully  in  tins  lined  with  buttered  white  paper. 

When  using  the  whites  of  eggs  for  nice  cake,  the  yolks  need  not  be  wasted; 
keep  them  in  a  cool  place,  and  scramble  them.    Serve  on  toast  or  with  chipped  beef. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

After  beating  to  a  cream  one  cup  and  a  half  of  butter  and  two  cups  of 
white  sugar,  stir  in  the  well- whipped  yolks  of  one  dozen  eggs;  four  cupfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Line  the 
bake-pans  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

GOLD  OR  LEMON  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  one  whole 
one;  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  fom*  cups  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  twice;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  the  floxu*,  beating  hard  for 
several  minutes.  Last  add  the  lemon  or  orange,  and  bake,  frosting  if  liked. 
This  makes  a  more  suitable  lemon  cake  than  if  made  with  the  white  parts  of 
eggs  added. 

SNOW  CAKE.    (Delicious.) 

One  poimd  of  arrowroot,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pounded  white  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  fliavoring  to  taste  of  essence  of  almonds 
or  vamlla,  or  lemon;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  stir  in  the  sugar  and  arrowroot 
gradually,  at  the  same  time  beating  the  mixture;  whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stifif  froth;  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  beat  well  for  twenty 
minutes;  put  in  whichever  of  the  above  flavorings  may  be  preferred;  pom*  the 
cake  into  a  buttered  mold  or  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  from  one  to 
one  and  a  half  hours.     This  is  a  genuine  Scotch  recipe. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 
White  part. — ^Whites  of  fotir  eggs,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 


262  CAKES. 

Dark  part. — ^Tolks  of  four  %gs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  cook- 
ing molasses,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  nut- 
meg grated,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  soda  to  be  dissolved  in  a  little  milk  and 
added  after  part  of  the  flomr  is  stirred  in;  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Drop  a  spoonful  of  each  kind  in  a  well-buttered  cake-dish,  first  the  light  part 
then  the  dark,  alternately.  Try  to  drop  it  so  that  the  cake  shall  be  weU-streaked 
through,  so  that  it  has  the  appsarance  of  marble. 

SUPERIOR  LOAF  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  thi^ee  cups  of  sugar,  two  small  cups  of  milk,  seven  cups 
of  sifted  flour;  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten;  one  teacupful 
of  seeded  raisins,  one  teacupful  of  well-washed  and  dried  currants,  one  teacup- 
ful of  sliced  citron,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of 
mace,  one  teaspoon^  of  soda;  and  one  teacupful  of  home-made  yeast. 

Take  part  of  the  butter  and  warm  it  with  the  milk;  stir  in  part  of  the  flour, 
and  the  yeast,  and  let  it  rise;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  with  a  wine-glass  of 
wine  or  brandy.  Turn  aU  into  well-buttered  cake-tins,  and  let  rise  again.  Bake 
slowly  in  a  moderate  oven,  for  two  hours. 

FRENCH  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  milk  and  three  of  flour,  and  three  teaspoonf uls  of  baking-powder. 
The  chocolate  part  of  the  cake  is  made  just  the  same,  only  use  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate  stirred  into  it.  Bake  it  in  layers — the  layers 
being  light  and  dark;  then  spread  a  custard  between  them,  which  is  made  with 
two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  or 
corn-starch;  when  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls.    Fine. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.    No.  i. 

One  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar  stirred  to  a  cream,  with  the  yolks 
of  flve  eggs  added  after  they  have  been  well-beaten.  Then  stir  into  that  one 
cup  of  milk,  beat  the  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  that  also; 
now  put  in  three  cups  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder  having  been  stirred  into  it.    Bake  in  jeUy-cake  tins. 

Mixture  for  filling. — Take  the  remaining  three  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff;  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  boiled  to  almost  candy  or  until  it  becomes  stringy  or 
almost  brittle;  take  it  hot  from  the  flre,  and  pour  it  very  slowly  on  the  beaten 
whites  of  egg,  beating  quite  fast;  add  one- half  cake  of  grated  chocolate,  a  tea- 


CAKES.  263 

spoonful  of  vaniUa  extract.  Stir  it  all  until  cool,  then  spread  between  each 
cake,  and  over  the  top  and  sides.  This,  when  well-made,  is  the  premium  cake 
of  its  kind. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.    No.  2. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs»  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda;  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

For  the  frosting.— Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate  (confectioners')  to  one  egg;  put 
the  cake  together  with  the  frosting,  then  frost  the  top  of  the  cake  with  the  same. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.    No.  3- 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  two,  and 
one  cup  milk.  Thoroughly  mix  two  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder  with  three  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  while  dry;  then  mix  all  together.    Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Mixture  for  filling. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat 
together,  and  spread  between  the  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

Cream  together  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  white  sugar; 
then  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten, 
the  yolks  added  first  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  whites;  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vaniUa;  mix  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  in  three  cups  of 
sifted  flour  and  add  last;  bake  in  jelly-pans. 

For  filling. — Make  an  icing  by  beating  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  a  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  to  a  stifif  froth.  When  the  cake  is  cooled,  spread  a  thick  layer  of 
this  frosting  over  each  cake,  and  sprinkle  very  thickly  with  grated  cocoanut. 

COCOANUT  AND  ALMOND  CAKE. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  full  cups  pre- 
pared flour,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  whisked  stifif;  one  small  cup  of  milk,  with  a 
mere  pinch  of  soda;  one  grated  cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  the  juice 
and  half  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon;  cream,  butter  and  sugar;  stir  in  lemon 
and  nutmeg;  mix  well;  add  the  milk  and  whites  and  flour  alternately.  Lastly, 
stir  in  the  grated  cocoanut  swiftly  and  Ughtly.    Bake  in  four  jelly-cake  tins. 

Filling.— One  pound  sweet  almonds,  whites  of  four  eggs,  whisked  stifif;  one 
heaping  cup  powdered  sugar^  two  teaspoonfuls  rose-water.    Blanch  the  almonds. 


264  CAKES. 

Let  them  get  cold  and  dry;  then  pound  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  rose- 
water  as  you  go.  Save  about  two  dozen  to  shred  for  the  top.  Stir  the  paste 
into  the  idng  after  it  is  made;  spread  between  the  cooled  cakes;  make  that  for 
the  top  a  trifle  thicker  and  lay  it  on  heavily.  When  it  has  stiffened  somewhat, 
stick  the  shred  almonds  closely  over  it.  Set  in  the  oveirto  harden,  but  do  not 
let  it  scorch. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  molas- 
ses, one  cup  of  strong,  cold  coffee,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  cup  of  raisins  or  currants,  and  five 
cups  of  sifted  flour.  Add  the  fruit  last,  rubbed  in  a  little  of  the  flour.  Bake 
about  one  hour. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk; 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar;  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.  A  nice  plain  cake — ^to  be  eaten  while  it  is  fresh.  A  spoonful  of 
dried  apple  sauce  or  of  peach  sauce,  a  spoonful  of  jelly,  the  same  of  lemon 
extract,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  spice— ground — or  half  a  cupful  of  raisins 
might  be  added  for  a  change. 

ELECTION  CAKE. 

Three  cups  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  yeast;  stir  to  a  batter,  and  let 
stand  over  .night;  in  the  morning  add  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  butter,  three 
eggs,  half  a  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  one  poimd  raisins,  a  gill  of 
brandy. 

Brown  sugar  is  much  better  than  white  for  this  kind  of  cake,  and  it  is 
improved  by  dissolving  a  half -teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk 
in  the  morning.  It  should  stand  in  the  greased  pans  and  rise  some  time  until 
quite  light  before  baking. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  teacups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  two  heaping  cupfuls  of  fioyxij  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  mix  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour  before  sifting.  Add  the  whites  the 
last  thing  before  the  flour,  and  stir  that  in  gently  without  beating. 

GOLDEN  CREAM-CAKE. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  the  lightest  possible  cream,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  sifted  well  with  flour.    Bake 


CAKES.  265 

in  three  jelly-cake  x)ans.  Make  an  icing  of  the  whites  of  three  ^gs  and  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Spread  it  between  the  cakes  and  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut 
thickly  over  each  layer.    It  is  delicious  when  properly  made. 

DRIED  APPLE  FRUIT-CAKE. 

Soak  three  cupf uls  of  dried  apples  over  night  in  cold  water  enough  to  swell 
them;  chop  them  in  the  morning,  and  put  them  on  the  fire  with  three  cups  of 
molasses;  stew  until  almost  soft;  add  a  cupful  of  nice  raisins  (seedless,  if  possi- 
ble), and  stew  a  few  moments;  when  cold,  add  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  butter,  three  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  This 
will  make  two  good-sized  panfuls  of  splendid  cake;  the  apples  wiU  cook  like 
dtron  and  taste  delidously.  Eaisios  may  be  omitted;  also  spices  to  taste  may  be 
added.    This  is  not  a  dear,  but  a  delicious  cake. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Beat  together  one  teacupful  of  butter,  and  three  teacupf uls  of  sugar,  and 
when  quite  light  stir  in  one  pint  of  sifted  flour.  Add  to  this,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  then  mixed  with  a  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonfxfl  of  powdered  cinnamon,  and  lastly,  one  pint  of 
thick  sour  cream. or  milk,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  is  dissolved.  Bake 
immediately  in  buttered  tins  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE.    No.  i. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  the  whites  of  seven  eggs,  well- 
beaten,  two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn-starch, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.    Bake  in  jeUy-cake  tios. 

JBVosting. — Whites  of  three  eggs  and  some  sugar  beaten  together  not  quite  as 
stiff  as  usual  for  frosting;  spread  over  the  cake;  add  some  grated  cocoanut; 
then  put  your  cakes  together;  put  cocoanut  and  frosting  on  t<q). 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE.    No.  2. 

Cream  three  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter,  making  it  very  light,  then 
add  a  cupful  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  very  stiff,  add  half  of  those 
to  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  well  into  four  cups  of  sifted  flour  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder;  stir  this  into  the  cake,  add  flavoring,  then  the  remaining 
beaten  whites  of  egg.  Bake  in  layers  like  jelly-cake.  Make  an  icing  for  the 
filling,  using  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  with  two  cups 
of  fine  white  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  leipon.    Spread  each  layer  of  the 


266  CAKES. 

cake  thickly  with  this  icmg,  place  one  on  another,  then  ice  all  over  the  top  and 
sides.  The  yolks  left  £rom  this  cake  may  be  used  to  make  a  spice-cake  from 
the  recipe  of^*  Gtolden  Spice-Cake." 

QUEEN»S  CAKE. 

Beat  weU  together  one  cupful  of  butter,  and  three  cupf uls  of  white  sugar; 
add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  or 
lemon  extract.  Mix  aU  thoroughly.  To  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  add  two  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  gently  over  the  cake,  stirring  all  the 
time.  To  this  add  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful 
of  warm  water.  Mix  it  welL  Stir  in  gently  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  foam.  Bake  slowly.  It  should  be  put  in  the  oven  as  soon  as  possible  after- 
putting  in  the  soda  and  whites  of  eggs. 

This  is  the  same  recipe  as  the  one  for  '^  Citron  Cake, "  only  omitting  the  citron. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Put  into  one  tumbler  of  flour  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  then  sift  it 
five  times.  Sift  also  one  glass  and  a  half  of  white  powdered  sugar.  Beat  to  a 
stiff  froth  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs;  stir  the  sugar  into  the  eggs  by  degrees, 
very  lightly  and  carefully,  adding  three  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract.  After 
this,  add  the  flour,  stirring  quickly  and  lightly.  Pour  it  into  a  dean,  bright  tin 
cake-dish,  wliich  should  not  be  buttered  or  lined.  Bake  at  once  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  forty  minutes,  testing  it  v^ith  a  broom  splint*.  When  done,  let  it 
remain  in  the  cake-tin,  turning  it  upside  down,  with  the  sides  resting  on  the  top 
of  two  saucers,  so  that  a  current  of  air  will  pass  under  and  over  it. 

This  is  the  best  recipe  found  after  trying  several.    A  perfection  cake. 

WASHINGTON  LOAF-CAKE, 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  two  scant  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  five 
eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  half  a  nut- 
meg, grated,  and  two  cups  of  raisins,  one  of  currants,  and  four  cups  of  sifted 
flour. 

Mix  as  usual,  and  stir  the  fruit  in  at  the  last,  dredged  in  flour.  line  the 
cake-pans  with  paper  well  buttered.  This  cake  will  take  longer  to  bake  than 
plain;  the  heat  of  the  oven  must  be  kept  at  an  even  temperature. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

This  cake  is  made  from  the  same  recipe  as  marble  cake,  only  make  double 
the  quantity  of  the  white  part,  and  divide  it  in  one  half;  put  into  it  a  very  little 


CAKES.  267 

<x)chmeal.  It  will  be  a  delicate  pink.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  lay  first  the 
white,  then  the  dark,  then  the  pink  one  on  top  of  the  others;  put  together  with 
frosting  between.    It  makes  quite  a  fancy  cake.    Frost  the  top  when  cooL 

GOLDEN  SPICE-CAKE. 

This  cake  can  be  made  to  advantage  when  you  have  the  yolks  of  ^ggs  left, 
:after  having  used  the  whites  in  making  white  cake. 

Take  the  yolks  of  seven  %gs,  and  one  whole  egg,  two  cupfuls  of  brown 
«ugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  laige  coffee-cupful  of 
«our  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  (just  even  full),  and  five  cupfuls  of  fiour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  and  a  small  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper;  beat  eggs,  sugar 
.and  butter  to  a  light  batter  before  putting  in  the  molasses;  then  add  the 
molasses,  fiour  and  milk;  beat  it  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  if 
fruit  is  used,  take  two  cupfuls  of  raisins,  fiour  them  well  and  put  them  in  last. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

One-half  cupful  butter,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-half  cupful  almonds, 
blanched — ^by  pouring  water  on  them  until  skins  easily  slip  off — ^and  cut  in  fine 
shreds,  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  bitter  almonds,  one  pint  fiour,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  one  glass  brandy,  one-half  cupful  milk.  Eub 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  smooth  white  cream;  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
three  or  four  minutes  between  each.  Sift  fiour  and  powder  together,  add  to  the 
butter,  etc.,  with  almonds,  extract  of  bitter  almonds,  brandy,  and  milk;  mix 
into  a  smooth,  medium  batter;  bake  carefully  in  rather  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

ROCHESTER  JELLY  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  e^s,  one-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths 
<nip  milk,  two  heaping  cups  fiour  with  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Put  half  the  above  mixture  in  a 
small  shallow  tin,  and  to  the  remainder  add  one  teaspoonful  molasses>  one-half 
<nip  raisins  (chopped)  or  currants,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice, 
and  a  little  nutmeg,  and  one  tablespoonful  fiour.  Bake  this  in  same  kind  of 
tins.    Put  the  sheets  of  cake  together  while  warm,  with  jelly  between. 

FRUIT  LAYER  CAKE. 

This  is  a  delicious  novelty  in  cake-making.  Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  fiour,  half  a  cup  of  wine,  one  cup  of  raisins. 


268  CAKES. 

two  QfS^  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  put  these  ingredients  together  with 
care,  just  as  if  it  were  a  very  rich  cake;  bake  it  in  three  layers,  and  put  frosting 
between— the  frosting  to  be  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  enough  pow- 
dered sugar  to  make  it  thick.    The  top  of  the  cake  may  be  frosted  if  you  choose* 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter  stirred  together;  add 
the  yolks  of  two  e^s  well-beaten,  then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  millr^  some 
flavoring,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  cream 
tartar  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  flour,  sift  it  into  the  cake  batter, 
and  stir  in  lightly.  Bake  in  a  small  dripping-pan.  When  the  cake  is  cool,  have 
ready  half  of  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  sweetened  and  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  also 
flavored.  Spread  it  over  the  cake  while  fresh.  To  whip  the  cream  easily,  set  it 
on  ice  before  whipping. 

ROLLED  JELLY  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  fljie  sugar,  one  teacup  of  flour;  beat  the  yolks  imtil 
light,  then  add  the  sugar,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
lastly  stir  in  the  flour,  in  which  there  should  be  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder.  The  flour  added  gradually.  Bake  in  long,  shallow  biscuit-tins,  well- 
greased.  Turn  out  on  a  damp  towel  on  a  bread-board,  and  cover  the  top  with 
jelly,  and  roll  up  while  warm. 

TO  CUT  LAYER  CAKE. 

When  cutting  Layer-Cakes,  it  is  better  to  first  make  a  round  hole  in  the 
cake,  with  a  knife  or  tin  tube,  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  This 
prevents  the  edge  of  the  cake  from  crumbling  when  cutting  it. 

When  making  custard  fllUng  for  Layer-Cake,  always  set  the  dish  contain- 
ing the  custard  in  another  dish  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire;  this  prevents  its 
burning,  which  would  destroy  its  flavor. 

LAYER  JELLY  CAKE. 

Almost  any  soft  cake  recipe  can  be  used  for  jelly-cake.  The  following  is 
excellent:  One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  flavoring. 

For  white,  delicate  cake,  the  rule  for  '*  Silver  Cake  "  is  fine;  care  should  be 
taken,  however,  that  the  oven  is  just  right  for  this  cake,  as  it  browns  very 
easily.  To  be  baked  in  jelly-cake  tins,  in  layers,  with  filling  put  between  when 
done. 


CAKES— FILLINGS  FOR  LA  YER  CAKES.  269 

Any  of  the  following  cake  filling  recipes  may  be  used  with  these  cake  recipes. 

jfilHnos  tot  XaKt  Cakes. 

No.   I.    CREAM  FILLING. 

Cream  filling  is  made  with  one  pint  of  new  milk,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sifted  flour  (or  half  cup  of  com  stai^ch),  one  cup  of  sugar.  Put  two-thirds 
of  the  Tnillr  on  the  stove  to  boil,  stir  the  sugar,  flour  and  eggs  in  what  is  left. 
When  the  nriillr  boils,  put  into  it  the  whole,  and  cook  it  imtil  it  is  as  thick  as 
custard;  when  cool,  add  vamlla  extract.  This  custard  is  nice  with  a  cup  of 
hickory  nuts,  kernels  chopped  fine,  and  stirred  into  it.  Spread  between  the 
layers  of  cake.  This  custard  can  be  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  only,  saving 
the  whites  for  the  cake  part. 

No.  2.    ANOTHER  CREAM  FILLING. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  hot  water.  Let  them  simmer. 
Beat  white  of  an  egg  and  mix  with  the  above;  when  cold,  add  one-half  cup- 
chopped  raisms,  one-half  cup  chopped  walnuts,  one  tablespoonful  of  grated 
cocoanut. 

No.  3-    ICE-CREAM  FILLING. 

Make  an  icing  as  follows:  Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  water;  boil  to  a  thick, 
clear  syrup,  or  until  it  begins  to  be  brittle;  pom:  this,  boiling  hot,  over  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs;  stir  the  mixtm^e  very  briskly,  and  pour  the  sugar 
in  slowly;  beat  it  when  all  in,  until  cool.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract. 
This,  spread  between  any  white  cake  layers,  answers  for  "  Ice-Cream  Cake." 

No.  4.    APPLE  FILLING. 

Peel,  and  slice  green,  tart  apples;  put  them  on  the  fire  with  sugar  to  suit; 
when  tender,  remove,  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  a  small  piece  of 
butter.  When  cold,  use  to  spread  between  the  layers;  cover  the  cake  with 
plenty  of  sugar. 

No.  5.   ANOTHER  APPLE  FILLING. 

One  coflfee-cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  three  large  apples  grated,  one  lemon  grated, 
juice  and  outside  of  the  rind;  beat  together  and  cook  till  quite  thick.  To  be 
cooled  before  putting  on  the  cake.    Spread  between  layers  of  cake. 


270  CAKES— FILLINGS  FOR  LAYER  CAKES. 

No.  6.    CREAM  FROSTING. 

A  cup  of  sweet  thick  cream  whipped,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla^ 
cut  a  loaf  of  cake  in  two,  spread  the  frosting  between  and  on  the  top;  this  tastes 
like  Charlotte  Russe. 

No.  7.    PEACH-CREAM  FILLING. 

Cut  peaches  into  thin  slices,  or  chop  them  and  prepare  cream  by  whipping 
and  sweetening.  Put  a  layer  of  peaches  between  the  layers  of  cake  and  pour 
cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top.  Bananas,  strawberries  or  other  fruits 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  milling  strawberries,  and  stewing  thick  with 
powdered  sugar. 

No.  &    CHOCOLATE  CREAM  FOR  FILLING. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  enough  cream  or  milk  to  wet  it,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  Qgg,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring.  Stir  the  ingredients 
over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  mixed,  having  beaten  the  egg  well  before  adding 
it;  then  add  the  vanilla  flavoring  after  it  is  removed  from  the  fire. 

No.  9.    ANOTHER  CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

The  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  ono.cup  of  grated 
chocolate,  put  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 

No.  zo.    BANANA  FILLING. 

Make  an  icing  of  the  whites  of  two  Qggs,  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  pow:dered 
sugar.  Spread  this  on  the  layers,  and  then  cover  thickly  and  entirely  with 
bananas  sliced  thin  or  chopped  fine.  This  cake  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla. 
The  top  should  be  simply  frosted. 

No.  II.    LEMON-JELLY  FILLING. 

Grate  tha  yellow  from  the  rind  of  two  lemons  and  squeeze  out  the  juice;  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mjy  the 
sugar  and  yolks,  then  add  the  whites,  and  then  the  lemons.  Now,  pour  on  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  into  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  rubbed 
smooth  in  half  a  cup  of  water;  th^i  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  cook 
until  it  thickens.  When  cold,  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Oranges  can 
be  used  in  place  of  lemons. 

Another  filling  of  lemon  (without  cooking)  is  made  of  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  ^ 


CAKES.  271 

No.  Z2.    ORANGE-CAKE  FILLING. 

Peel  two  large  oranges,  remove  the  seeds,  chop  them  fine,  add  half  a  peeled 
lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Spread  be- 
tween the  layers  of  "  SUver  Cake  "  recipe. 

No.  13.     FIG  FILLING. 

Take  a  pound  of  figs,  chop  fine,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan  on  the  stove;  pour 
over  them  a  teacupful  of  water,  and  add  a  half  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  all  together 
mitil  soft  and  smooth.    When  cold,  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 

No.  14.    FRUIT  FILLING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  x^eryfine  chopped  citron,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely 
chopped  seeded  raisins;  half  of  a  cupful  of  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine;  also 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  chopped  figs.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  adding  half  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  then  mix  thoroughly  into  this  the 
whole  of  the  chopped  ingredients.  Put  it  between  the  layers  of  cake  when  the 
cake  is  hoty  so  that  it  will  cook  the  egg  a  little.    This  will  be  found  delicious. 


CUSTARD  OR  CREAM  CAKE. 

Cream  together  two  cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter;  add  half  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk  in  which  is  dissolved  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  the  whites  of 
six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Have  one  heaping  teaspoonf ul 
of  cream  tartar  stirred  thoroughly  into  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  add  quickly. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  in  layers  like  jelly-cake,  and  when  done,  spread  cus- 
tard between. 

For  the  Cvstard. — Take  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  put  it  into  a  clean  suitable 
dish,  set  it  in  a  dish  of  hailing  water  on  the  range  or  stove.  When  the  milk 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  or  flour  stirred  into  half  a 
cup  of  sugar,  adding  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  this  into 
the  boiling  milk,  and  when  cooked  thick  enough,  set  aside  to  cool;  afterwards 
add  the  flavoring,  either  vanilla  or  lemon.  It  is  best  to  make  the  custard  first, 
before  making  the  cake  part. 

HICKORY  NUT  OR  WALNUT  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of  fine,  white  sugar,  creamed  with  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs, 
two-thirds  of  a  cnp  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  through  the  flour.    A  tablespoonful  (level)  of 


272  CAKES. 

powdered  mace,  a  coflPee-cup  of  hickory  nut  or  walnut  meats,  chopped  a  little. 
Pill  the  cake-pans  with  a  layer  of  the  cake,  then  a  layer  of  raisins  upon  that, 
then  strew  over  these  a  handful  of  nuts,  and  so  on,  until  the  pan  is  two-thiids 
full.  line  the  tins  with  well-buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  steady  but  not  quick 
oven.    This  is  most  excellent. 

CHEAP  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  taUe- 
spoonful  butter,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  flavor  to  taste. 
Divide  into  three  parts,  and  bake  in  round  shallow  pans. 

Cream. — Beat  one  egg  and  one  half  cup  sugar  together,  then  add  one  quarter 
cup  flour,  wet  with  a  very  little  milk,  and  stir  this  mixture  into  one  half  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  until  thick;  flavor  to  taste.  Spread  the  cream  when  cool  between 
the  cakes. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

Stir  to  a  cream  one  cupful  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar;  add  to 
this  two  cupfuls  of  cooking  molasses,  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon;  beat  all  thoroughly  together,  then 
add  three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  beat  into  this  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour,  then  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water,  and 
last,  two  more  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Butter  and  paper  two  common  square 
bread-pans,  divide  the  mixture  and  pour  half  into  each.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  cake  requires  long  and  slow  baking,  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes. 
I  find  that  if  sour  milk  is  used,  the  cakes  are  much  lighter,  but  either  sweet  or 
sour  is  most  excellent. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

Made  the  same  as  ^^  Soft  Gingerbread,"  omitting  the  eggs,  and  mixing  hard 
enough  to  roU  out  hke  biscuit;  rolled  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  like 
small  biscuits,  or  it  can  be  baked  in  a  sheet  or  on  a  biscuit-tin;  cut  slits  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  deep  across  the  top  of  the  tin  from  side  to  side.  When  baked  and 
while  hot,  rub  over  the  top  with  molasses,  and  let  it  dry  on. 

These  two  above  recipes  are  the  best  I  have  ever  found  among  a  large  variety 
that  I  have  tried,  the  ingredients  giving  the  best  proportion  for  flavor  and 
excellence. 

PLAIN  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  dark  cooking  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  ^g,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  ginger;  make  about  as  thick  as  cup-cake.  To  be  eaten 
wamL 


CAKES*  27^ 

WHITE  GINGER  BISCUIT. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream  or  milk,  three 
Qggs,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  groimd  cinnamon,  and  five  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out  soft.  Cut  out  rather  thick,  like  biscuits;  brush 
over  the  tops  while  hot,  with  the  white  of  an  ^g,  or  sprinkle  with  sugar  while 
hot. 

The  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  an  orange  add  much  to  the  flavor  of  ginger 
cake. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE. 

This  cake  is  baked  in  layers  like  jelly-cake.  Divide  the  silver-cake  batter,  and 
color  it  pink  with  a  httle  cochineal;  this  gives  you  pink,  white  and  yellow  layers. 
Put  together  with  frosting.     Frost  the  top. 

This  can  be  put  together  hke  marble  cake,  first  a  spoonful  of  one  kind,  then 
another,  until  the  dish  is  full. 

BOSTON  CREAM  CAKES. 

Put  into  a  large-sized  sauce-pan  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of  hot 
water;  set  it  on  the  fire;  when  the  mixture  begins  to  boil,  turn  in  a  pint  of  sifted 
flour  at  once,  beat  and  work  it  well  with  a  vegetable-masher  until  it  is  very 
smooth.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  enough  add  five  eggs  that  have 
been  well  beaten,  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites,  also  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  in  large  spoonfuls,  about 
two  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  fifteen  minutes.  When  done 
and  quite  cold,  open  them  on  the  side  with  a  knife  or  scissors,  and  put  in  as  much 
of  the  custard  as  possible. 

Cream  for  filling. — Made  of  two  eggs»  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  (or 
half  cup  of  corn-starch),  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Put  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  mik 
over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  in  a  third  of  a  pint  of  milk;  stir  the  sugar,  flour 
and  beaten  eggs.  As  soon  as  the  milk  looks  like  boiling,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  stir  briskly  for  three  minutes,  until  it  thickens;  then  remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  a  teaspoonEul  of  butter;  when  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and 
fill  your  cakes. 

CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS. 

Make  the  mixture  exactly  like  the  recipe  for   "Boston  Cream  Cakes.'* 

Spread  it  on  buttered  pans  in  oblong  pieces  about  four  inches  long  and  one  and 

a  half  wide,  to  be  laid  about  two  inches  apart;  they  must  be  baked  in  a  rather 

18 


2  74  CAX£S 

quick  oven^  about  twenty-five  minutes.  As  soon  as  baked,  ice  with  chocolate 
icing,  and  when  this  is  cold,  split  them  on  one  side,  and  fill  with  the  same  cream 
as  '^Boston  Cream  Cakes." 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 
Beat  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar  toother  until  Ught,  then  add  a 
half  cup  of  milk,  four  ^gs,  beaten  separately,  the  yolks  to  a  cream,  and  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  the  same  of  cinnamon, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  The  baking-powder  to  be  rubbed  inta 
the  fiour.  Bub  one  quart  of  huckleberries  well  with  some  flour,  and  add  them  last, 
but  do  not  mash  them.  Pour  into  buttered  pans,  about  an  inch  thick;  dust  the 
tops  with  sugar  and  bake.    It  is  better  the  day  after  baking. 

SWEET  STRAWBERRY  CAKE. 

Three  ^gs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful,  heaped,  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together, 
and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  baking-powder  well  sifted 
together.  Bake  in  deep  tin  plate.  This  quantity  will  fill  four  plates.  With 
three  pints  of  strawberries,  mix  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  mash  them  a  Uttle. 
Spread  the  fruit  between  the  layers  of  cake.  The  top  layer  of  strawberries  may 
be  covered  with  a  meringue  made  with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  powdered  sugar. 

Save  out  the  largest  berries,  and  arrange  them  around  in  circles  on  the  top  in 
the  white  frosting.    Makes  a  very  fancy  dish,  as  well  as  a  most  deUcious  cake. 

MOLASSES  CUP  CAKES. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  three  teacupfuls  of 
cooking  molasses,  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and 
add  to  it;  after  which  put  in  the  spices;  then  the  molasses  and  fiour  in  rota- 
tion, stirring  the  mixture  all  the  time;  beat  the  whole  weU  before  adding  the 
soda,  and  but  httle  afterwards.  Put  into  well-buttered  patty-pan  tins,  and  bake 
in  a  very  moderate  oven.    A  baker's  recipe. 

BAKERS'  GINGER  SNAPS. 

Boil  all  together  the  following  ingredients:  Two  cups  of  brown  i^ugar,  two 
cups  of  cooking  molasses,  one  cup  of  shortening,  which  should  be  part  butter, 
one  large  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonf td  of  ground  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves;  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool.    In  the  meantime,. 


CAKES.  275 

sift  four  cups  of  flour  and  stir  part  of  it  into  the  above  mixture.  Now  dissolve 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water  and  beat  into  this  mix- 
ture^  stir  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  and  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  into  long 
rolls  about  one  inch  in  diameter,  and  cut  off  from  the  end  into  half -inch  pieces. 
Place  them  on  weU-buttered  tins,  giving  plenty  of  room  to  spread.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.    Let  them  cool  before  taking  out  of  the  tins. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling 
water,  mix  like  cookey  dough,  rather  soft. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  two  cups  molasses,  one  large  cup  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  three  pints  flour  to  commence  with; 
rub  shortening  and  sugar  together  into  the  flour;  add  enough  more  floxu*  to  roll 
very  smooth,  very  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  dough  can  be  kept  for 
days  by  putting  it  in  the  flour-barrel  under  the  flour,  and  bake  a  few  at  a  time. 
The  more  flour  that  can  be  worked  in  and  the  smoother  they  can  be  rolled,  the 
better  and  more  brittle  they  will  be.  Should  be  rolled  out  to  wafer-like  thin- 
ness. Bake  quickly  without  burning.  They  should  become  perfectly  cold  before 
putting  aside. 

DOMINOES. 

Have  a  plain  cake  baked  in  rather  thin  sheets,  and  cut  into  small  oblong 
pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  a  domino,  a  trifle  larger.  Frost  the  top  and  sides. 
When  the  frosting  is  hard,  draw  the  black  lines  and  make  the  dots,  with  a  small 
brush  dipped  in  melted  chocolate.    These  are  very  nice  for  children's  parties. 

FANCY  CAKES. 

These  delicious  little  fancy  cakes  may  be  made  by  making  a  rich  jumble- 
paste— rolling  out  in  any  desired  shape;  cut  some  paste  in  thick,  narrow  strips 
and  lay  aroxmd  your  cakes,  so  as  to  form  a  deep,  cup-hke  edge;  place  on  a  well- 
buttered  tin  and  bake.  When  done,  fill  with  iced  fruit,  prepared  as  follows: 
Take  rich,  ripe  peaches  (canned  nes  will  do,  if  fine  and  well-drained  from  all 
juice),  cut  in  halves;  plmns,  strawberries,  pineapples  cut  in  squares,  or  small 
triangles,  or  any  other  available  fruit,  and  dip  in  the  white  of  an  egg  that  has 
been  very  sUghtly  beaten  and  then  in  pulveiized  sugar,  and  lay  in  the  centre  of 
yorur  cakes. 


276  CAKES. 

WAFERS. 

Dissolve  four  ounces  of  butter  in  half  a  teacup  of  milk;  stir  together  four 
ounc^  of  white  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  add- 
ing gradually  the  butter  and  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  it  well.  Heat  the  wafer-irons,  butter  their  inner  surfaces, 
put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  the  batter,  and  close  the  irons  immediately;  put  the 
irons  over  the  fire,  and  turn  them  occasionally,  rmtil  the  wafer  is  cooked;  when 
the  wafers  are  aU  cooked,  roll  them  on  a  small  round  stick,  stand  them  upon  a 
sieve,  and  dry  them;  serve  with  ices. 

PEACH  CAKES. 

Take  the  yolks  and  whites  of  five  eggs  and  beat  them  separately  (the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth).  Then  mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  half  a  pound  of  pulverized  and 
sifted  loaf  or  crushed  sugar,  and  beat  the  two  together  thoroughly.  Fifteen 
minutes  will  be  none  too  long  for  the  latter  operation  if  you  would  have  excel- 
lence with  your  cakes. 

Now  add  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  dredging  it  in  a  little  at  a  time^  and  then 
put  in  the  whites  of  the  ^gs,  beating  the  whole  together  for  four  or  five  minutes. 
Then  with  a  large  spoon,  drop  the  batter  upon  a  baking-tin,  which  has  been 
buttered  and  floiu^,  being  careful  to  have  the  cakes  as  nearly  the  same  size  as 
possible,  and  resembUng  in  shape  the  half  of  a  peach.  Have  a  quick  oven  ready, 
and  bake  the  cakes  about  ten  minutes,  watching  them  closely  so  that  they  may 
only  come  to  a  light  brown  color.  Then  take  them  out,  spread  the  flat  side  of 
each  with  peach  jam,  and  stick  them  together  in  pairs,  covering  the  outside  with 
a  thin  coat  of  icing,  which  when  dry  can  be  brushed  over  on  one  side  of  the 
cake,  with  a  little  cochineal  water. 

CUP  CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  and  a  half 
of  flour,  and  four  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  large  spoon  cream  tartar;  stir 
butter  and  sugar  together,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  milk, 
then  flavoring,  and  the  whites.  Put  cream  tartar  in  flour  and  add  last.  Bake 
in  buttered  gem-pans,  or  drop  the  batter,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  in  rows,  on 
flat  buttered  tins. 

To  this  recipe  may  be  added  a  cup  of  English  currants  or  chopped  raisins; 
and  aiso  another  variety  of  cakes  may  be  made  by  adding  a  half  cup  of  citron 
sliced  and  floured  a  half -cupful  of  chopped  almonds,  and  lemon  extract. 


~Be~?  -  ■»       mm^^mmmmmm^'^i^i^m'^Siammmm^mmmt 


CAKES. 


VARIEGATED  CAKES. 


27; 


One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  the  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  the  whites  only,  whipped  light,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  prepared  flour.  Bitter  almond  flavoring,  spinach  juice  and  cochineal. 
Cream,  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  milk,  flavoring,  the  whites  and  flour. 
Divide  the  batter  into  three  parts.  Bruise  and  pound  a  few  leaves  of  spinach  in 
a  i^hm  muslin  bag  until  you  can  express  the  juice.  Put  a  few  drops  of  this  into 
one  portion  of  the  batter,  color  another  with  cochineal,  leaving  the  third  white. 
Put  a  little  of  each  into  small,  round  pans  or  cups,  giving  a  light  stir  to  each 
color  as  you  add  the  next.  This  will  vein  the  cakes  prettily.  Put  the  white 
between  the  pink  and  green,  that  the  tints  may  show  better.  If  you  can  get 
pistachio  nuts  to  pound  up  for  the  green,  the  cakes  will  be  much  nicer.  Ice  on 
sides  and  top. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKES. 

One  cupful  each  of  butter  and  sweet  milk,  and  half  a  cup  of  corn-starch,  two 
cupfuls  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  of  soda;  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in 
gem- tins  or  patty -pans. 

SPONGE  DROPS. 

Beat  to  a  froth  three  eggs  and  one  teacup  of  sugar;  stir  into  this  one  heaping 
coffee-cup  of  flour,  in  which  one  teaspoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Butter  tin 
sheets  with  washed  butter,  and  drop  in  teaspoonfuls  about  three  inches  apart. 
Bake  instantly  in  a  very  quick  oven.  Watch  closely  as  they  will  bum  easily. 
Serve  with  ice  cream. 

SAVORY  BISCUITS  OR  LADY  FINGERS. 

Put  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar  into  a  bowl,  and  put  the  bowl 
into  hot  water  to  heat  the  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  heated,  break 
nine  eggs  into  the  bowl  and  beat  them  quickly  until  they  become  a  Uttle  warm 
and  rather  thick;  then  take  the  bowl  from  the  water,  and  continue  beating  imtil 
it  is  nearly  or  quite  cold;  now  stir  in  lightly  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour; 
then  with  a  paper-funnel,  or  something  of  the  kind,  lay  this  mixture  out  upon 
papers,  in  biscuits  three  inches  long  and  half  an  inch  thick,  in  the  form  of 
fingers;  sift  sugar  over  the  biscuits,  and  bake  them  upon  tins  to  a  light  brown; 
when  they  are  done  and  cold,  remove  them  from  the  papers,  by  wetting  them 


278  CAKES. 

on  the  back;  dry  them,  and  they  are  ready  for  use.    They  are  often  used  in 
making  Charlotte  Busse. 

PASTRY  SANDWICHES, 
Puff-paste,  jam  of  any  kind,  the  white  of  an  egg,  sifted  sugar. 
Boll  the  paste  out  thin;  put  half  of  it  on  a  baking-sheet  or  tin,  and  spread 
equally  over  it  apricot,  greengage,  or  any  preserve  that  may  be  preferred.  Lay 
over  this  preserve  another  thin  paste,  press  the  edges  together  aU  round,  and 
mark  the  paste  in  hues  with  a  knife  on  the  surface,  to  show  where  to  cut  it 
when  baked.  Bake  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour;  and,  a  short  time 
before  being  done,  take  the  pastry  out  of  the  oven,  brush  it  over  with  the  white 
of  an  egg,  sift  over  pounded  sugar,  and  put  it  back  in  the  oven  to  color.  When 
cold,  cut  it  into  strips;  pile  these  on  a  dish  pjrramidically,  and  serve. 

This  may  be  made  of  jelly-cake  dough,  and,  after  baking,  allowed  to  cool 
before  spreading  with  the  preserve;  either  way  is  good,  as  well  as  fandfuL 

NEAPOLITAINES. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  lemon- 
juice,  three  whole  eggs,  and  three  yolks,  beaten  separately;  three  cups  of  sifted 
flour.  Put  this  all  together  with  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  milk.  If  it  is  too  stiff  to  roU  out,  add  just  enough  more  milk.  Boll 
it  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  out  with  any  tin  cutter.  Place  the 
cakes  in  a  pan  slightly  gi'eased,  and  color  the  tops  with  beaten  egg  and  mWk^ 
with  some  chopped  almonds  over  them.    Bake  in  a  rather  qmck  oven. 

BRUNSWICK  JELLV  CAKES. 

Stir  one  cup  of  powdered  white  sugar,  and  one  half  cup  of  butter  together,  till 
perfectly  light;  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  till  very  thick  and  smooth;  sift  three 
cups  of  flour,  and  stir  it  into  the  beaten  eggs  with  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  mixed  spice  (nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon)  and  half  a  glstss  of 
rose-water  or  wine;  stir  the  whole  well,  and  lay  it  on  your  paste-board,  which 
must  first  be  sprinkled  with  flour;  if  you  find  it  so  moist  as  to  be  unmanageable, 
throw  in  a  Uttle  more  flour;  spread  the  dough  into  a  sheet  about  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  it  out  in  round  cakes  with  a  biscuit-cutter;  lay  them  in  buttered 
pans  and  bake  about  five  or  six  minutes;  when  cold,  spread  over  the  surface  of 
each  cake  a  liquor  of  fruit- jelly  or  marmalade;  then  beat  the  whites  of  three  or 
four  eggs  till  it  stands  alone;  beat  into  the  froth,  by  degrees,  a  sufficiency  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar  to  make  it  as  thick  as  icing;  flavor  with  a  few  drops  dt 
strong  essence  of  lemon,  and  with  a  spoon  heap  it  up  on  each  cake,  Tn«.Tring  it 


CAKES.  2  79 

high  in  the  centre;  put  the  cakes  into  a  coal  oven,  and  as  soon  as  the  tops  are 
colored  a  pale  brown,  take  them  out. 

LITTLE  PLUM  CAKES. 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  beaten  to  a  smooth  cream;  add 
three  well-beaten  ^gs,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  vanilla  extract,  f oiu*  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
one  cup  of  raisins,  and  one  of  currants,  half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda, 
dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  drop  this 
batter  in  drops  on  well-buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

JUMBLES. 

Cream  together  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter,  add  three  well-beaten 
eggs  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
flavor  to  taste;  flour  enough  to  make  into  a  soft  dough;  do  not  roll  it  on  the 
paste-board,  but  break  off  pieces  of  dough  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  make  into 
rings  by  rolling  out  rolls  as  large  as  your  tmger,  and  joining  the  ends;  lay  them 
on  tins  to  bake,  an  inch  apart,  as  it  rises  and  spreads;  bake  in  a  moderaie  oven. 
These  jumbles  are  very  delicate,  will  keep  a  long  time. 

WINE  JUMBLES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  wine-glass  of  wine,  one 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Boll  as  thin  as  the  blade  of  a 
knife,  and  cut  with  an  oval  cutter.  Bake  on  tin-sheets,  in  a  quick  oven,  until  a 
dark  brown.    These  will  keep  a  year  if  kept  in  a  tin  box  and  in  a  dry  place. 

COCOANUT  JUMBLES. 

Grate  one  large  cupful  of  cocoanut;  rub  one  cupful  of  butter  with  one  and  a 
half  cupfuls  of  sugar;  add  three  beaten  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour;  then  add  by  degrees  the 
grated  nut,  so  as  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  rolled  thin,  and  cut  with  a  round  cutter, 
having  a  hole  in  the  middle.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  five  to  ten  minutes. 

PHILADELPHIA  JUMBLES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  eight  eggs,  beaten  Ught;  essence  of 
bitter  almond  or  rose  to  taste;  enough  flour  to  enable  you  to  roU  them  out. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  light  cream,  then  add  the  well- whipped  eggs, 
the  flavoring  and  flour;  mix  well  together,  roll  out  in  powdered  sugar,  roll  in  a 
sheet  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  into  rings  with  a  jagging-iron,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  on  buttered  tins. 


28o  CAKES. 

ALMOND  JUMBLES. 

Three  cupfuls  of  soft  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one 
teacupful  of  loppered  milk,  five  ^gs,  well-beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose- 
water,  three-quajrters  of  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  very  fine; 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  the  milk,  flour,  rose-water, 
almoads,  and,  lastly,  the  beaten  whites  very  lightly,  and  quickly;  drop  in  rings 
on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  at  once. 

FRUIT  JUMBLES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  five  cupfuls  of  flour,  five  eggs,  one 
small  teacupful  of  milk,  in  which  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  cream  the 
butter;  add  the  sugar;  cream  again;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  the  milk,  beaten 
whites  and  flour;  a  little  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice,  and  groimd  doves,  and 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  rolled  in  flour. 

COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  a  small  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  half  a 
grated  nutmeg,  and  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  in  which  there  has  been  sifted  with 
it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder;  mix  into  a  soft  dough,  and  cut  into 
round  cakes;  roll  the  dough  as  thin  as  pie-crust.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  light- 
brown.  These  can  be  made  of  sour  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
it,  or  sour  or  sweet  cream  can  be  used  in  place  of  butter. 

Water  cookies  made  the  same  as  above,  using  water  in  place  of  milk.  Water 
cookies  keep  longer  than  milk  cookies. 

FAVORITE  COOKIES. 
One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  sour  milk, 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Mour  enough  to 
roll;  make  quite  soft.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  flne  sugar  on  a  plate  and  dip  the 
tops  of  each  as  you  cut  them  out.  Place  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven,  a  light  brown. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 
One  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg, three  tablespoonfuls  of  English  currants  or  chopped  raisins.  Mix  soft,  and 
roll  out,  using  just  enough  flour  to  stiffen  sufficiently.  Cut  out  with  a  large 
cutter,  wet  the  tops  with  milk,  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them.  Bake  on  buttered 
tins  in  a  quick  oven. 


CAKES.  28  r 

CRISP  COOKIES.  (Very  Nice.) 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs  well-beaten,  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  spoonful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 
and  one  of  cinnamon.  Hour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  just  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out.  Try  a  pint  of  sifted  flour  to  begin  with,  working  it  in  gradually. 
Spread  a  little  sweet  milk  over  each,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  a  light  brown. 

LEMON  COOKIES, 

Pour  cups  of  sifted  flour,  or  enough  for  a  stiff  dough;  one  teacupful  of  butter, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  the  grated  peel  from  the  outside, 
three  eggs,  whipped  very  light.  Beat  thoroughly  each  ingredient,  adding  after 
all  is  in  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonf ul  of  miUr.  Boll 
out  as  any  cookies,  and  bake  a  light  brown.    Use  no  other  wetting. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

One  cup  grated  cocoanut,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cu]^ 
butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  one  large  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  extract  of  vaniUa,  and  floiu*  enough  to  roll  out. 

DOUGHNUTS  OR  FRIED  CAKES. 

Success  in  making  good  fried  cakes  depends  as  much  on  the  cooking  as  the 
mixing.  In  the  first  place,  there  should  be  boiling  lard  enough  to  free  them 
from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  so  that  they  swim  on  the  top,  and  the  lard  should 
never  be  so  hot  as  to  smoke  or  so  cool  as  not  to  be  at  the  boiling  point;  if  it  is, 
they  soak  grease,  and  are  spoiled.  If  it  is  at  the  right  heat,  the  doughnuts  will 
in  about  ten  minutes  be  of  a  delicate  brown  outside  and  nicely  cooked  inside. 
Five  or  six  minutes  will  cook  a  cruller.  Try  the  fat  by  dropping  a  bit  of  the 
dough  in  first;  if  it  is  right,  the  fat  will  boil  up  when  it  is  dropped  in.  They 
should  be  turned  over  almost  constantly,  which  causes  them  to  rise  and  brown 
evenly.  When  they  are  sufficiently  cooked,  raise  them  from  the  hot  fat,  and 
drain  them  until  every  drop  ceases  dripping. 

CRULLERS  OR  FRIED  CAKES. 

One  and  a  half  cupfxils  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  ^gs,  twa 
scant  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  large  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  soda;  make  a  little  stiffer  than 
biscuit  dough,  roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a  fried-cake 
cutter,  with  a  hole  in  the  centre.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 


282  CAKES. 

These  can  be  made  with  sweet  milk  and  baldng-powder,  using  two  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  the  baMng-powder  in  place  of  soda. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS- 
Old-fashioned  '^raised  doughnuts/'  are  seldom  seen,  now-a-days,  but  are 
easily  made.  Make  a  sponge  as  for  bread,  using  a  pint  of  warm  water  or  tYiillr, 
and  alarge  half  cupful  of  yeast;  when  the  sponge  is  very  light,  add  half  acupful 
of  butter  or  sweet  lard,  a  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one 
small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, a  Uttle  grated  nutm^;  stir  in  now  two  well-beaten  ^gs,  add  sifted  flour 
tmtil  it  is  the  consistency  of  biscuit-dough,  knead  it  well,  cover  and  let  rise;  then 
roll  the  dough  out  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  a  very  small 
biscuit-cutter,  or  in  strips  half  an  inch  wide  and  three  inches  long,  place  them 
on  greased  tins,  cover  them  well,  and  let  them  rise  before  fr3ring  them.  Drop 
them  in  very  hot  lard.  Eaised  cakes  require  longer  time  than  cakes  made  with 
baking-powder.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  as  fast  as  they  are  fried,  while 
warm.  Our  grandmothers  put  allspice  into  these  cakes;  that,  however,  is  a 
matter  of  taste. 

BAKERS'  RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

Warm  a  teacupful  of  lard  in  a  pint  of  milk;  when  nearly  cool,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  add  a  small  cupful  of  yeast;  beat  it  well,  and 
set  it  to  rise;  when  light,  work  in  gradually  and  carefully  three  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
the  whipped  whites  of  six  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  half 
of  a  nutm^  grated;  then  work  in  gradually  enough  floin:  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out;  let  it  rise  again,  and  when  very  Ught,  roll  it  out  in  a  sheet  an  inch  thick; 
cut  into  rounds;  put  into  the  centre  of  each  roimd  a  large iSultana  raisin,  seeded, 
and  mold  into  perfectly  roimd  balls ;  flatten  a  little;  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes 
before  boiling  them;  have  plenty  of  lard  in  the  pot,  and  when  it  boils  drop  in  the 
cakes;  when  they  are  a  light  brown,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer; 
drain  on  soft  white  paper,  and  roll,  while  warm,  in  fine  powdered  sugar. 

— PurselVs  Bakery,  New  York  City. 

CRULLERS  OR  WONDERS. 

Three  ^ggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  mix  very  hard  with  sifted  flour,  as  hard  as  can  be  rolled,  and  to 
be  rolled  very  tlun  like  pie-crust;  cut  in  squares  three  inches  long  and  two  wide, 
then  cut  several  slits  or  lines  lengthwise,  to  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the 


CAKES.  283 

^ges  of  the  ends;  run  your  two  forefingers  through  every  other  slit;  lay  them 
down  on  the  hoard  edgewise,  and  dent  them.  These  are  very  dainty  when  fried. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  a  light  brown. 

GERMAN  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  smaU  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  flavor- 
ing, salt  to  taste;  first  boil  the  milk  and  pour  it,  while  hot,  over  a  pint  of  flour; 
beat  it  very  smooth,  and  when  it  is  cool,  have  ready  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  weU- 
beaten;  add  them  to  the  milk  and  flour,  beaten  well  into  it,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  whites,  then  lastly  add  the  salt  and  as  much  more  flour  as  will  make 
the  whole  into  a  soft  dough;  flour  your  board,  turn  your  dough  upon  it,  roll  it 
in  pieces  as  thick  as  your  finger  and  turn  them  in  the  form  of  a  ring;  cook  in 
plenty  of  boiling  lard.    A  nice  breakfast  cake  with  coffee. 

NUT  CAKES  (Fried.) 

Beat  two  eggs  well,  add  to  them  one  ounce  of  sifted  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
warmed  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  a  teacupful  of  luke-warm  milk  and 
a  little  salt.  Whip  all  well  together,  then  stir  in  by  degrees  one  pound  of  flour, 
and,  if  requisite,  more  milk,  making  thin  dough.  Beat  it  imtil  it  falls  from 
the  spoon,  then  set  it  to  rise.  When  it  has  risen,  make  butter  or  lard  hot  in  a 
frying-pan;  cut  from  the  light  dough  httle  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  with- 
out molding  or  kneading,  fry  them  pale  brown.  As  they  are  done,  lay  them 
on  a  napkin  to  absorb  any  of  the  fat. 


Work  one  egg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a 
stiff  paste;  roll  it  as  thin  as  a  dollar  piece,  and  cut  it  into  small  round  or  square 
cakes;  drop  two  or  three  at  a  time  into  the  boiling  lard;  when  they  rise  to  the 
surface  and  turn  over  they  are  done;  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  lay 
them  on  an  inverted  sieve  to  drain.  When  served  for  dessert  or  supper,  put  a 
spoonful  of  jelly  on  each. 

PUFF-BALL  DOUGHNUTS. 

These  doughnuts,  eaten  fresh  and  warm,  are  a  delicious  breakfast  dish,  and 
are  quickly  made.  Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  permit  the  spoon  to  stand  upright  in  the  mixture; 
add  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  to  the  flour;  beat  all  until  very 
h'ght.  Drop  by  the  dessertspoonful  into  boiling  lard.  These  will  not  absorb  a 
bit  of  fat,  and  are  not  at  all  rich,  and  consequently  are  the  least  injurious  of  this 
kind  of  cakea 


GENERAL  REMARKS. 

Use  the  very  best  materials  in  making  pastry;  the  shortening  should  be  firesh, 
sweet,  and  hard;  the  water  cold  (ice  water  is  best),  the  paste  rolled  on  a  cold 
board,  and  all  handled  as  little  as  possible. 

When  the  crust  is  made,  it  makes  it  much  more  flakey  and  puff  much  more 
to  put  it  in  a  dish  covered  with  a  doth,  and  set  in  a  very  cold  place  for  half  an 
hour,  or  even  an  hour;  in  summer,  it  could  be  placed  in  the  ice  box. 

A  great  improvement  is  made  in  pie-crust  by  the  addition  of  about  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  to  a  quart  of  flour,  also  brushing  the  paste  as  often 
as  rolled  out,  and  the  pieces  of  butter  placed  thereon,  with  the  white  of  an  egg, 
assists  it  to  rise  in  leaves  or  flakes.  As  this  is  the  great  beauty  of  puff-paste,  it 
is  as  well  to  try  this  method. 

If  currants  are  to  be  used  in  pies,  they  should  be  carefully  picked  over,  and 
washed  in  several  waters,  dried  in  a  towel,  and  dredged  with  flour  before  they 
are  suitable  for  use. 

Baisins,  and  all  dried  fruits  for  pies  and  cakes,  should  be  seeded,  stoned,  and 
dredged  with  flour,  before  using. 

Almonds  should  be  blanched  by  pouring  boiling  water  upon  them,  and  then 
slipping  the  skin  off  with  the  fingers.  In  pounding  them,  always  add  a  little 
rose  or  orange  water,  with  fine  sugar,  to  prevent  their  becoming  oily. 

Great  care  is  requisite  in  heating  an  oven  for  baking  pastry.  If  you  can 
hold  your  hand  in  the  heated  oven  while  you  count  twenty,  the  oven  has  just 
the  proper  temperature,  and  it  should  be  kept  at  this  temperature  as  long  as  the 
pastry  is  in;  this  heat  will  bake  to  a  light  brown,  and  will  give  the  pastry  a 
fresh  and  flakey  appearance.  If  you  suffer  the  heat  to  abate,  the  under  crusi; 
will  become  heavy  and  clammy,  and  the  upper  crust  will  fall  in. 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  285 

Another  good  way  to  ascertain  when  the  oven  is  heated  to  the  proper  degree 
for  pnff. paste:  put  a  small  piece  of  the  paste  in  previous  to  bakiog  the  whole, 
and  then  the  heat  can  thus  be  judged  of. 

Pie-crust  can  be  kept  a  week,  and  the  last  be  better  than  the  first,  if  put  in  a 
tightly  covered  dish,  and  set  in  the  ice-chest  in  summer,  and  in  a  cool  place  in 
winter,  and  thus  you  can  make  a  fresh  pie  every  day  with  little  trouble. 

In  baking  custard,  pumpkin  or  squash  pies,  it  is  well,  in  order  that  the  mix- 
ture may  not  be  absorbed  by  the  paste,  to  first  partly  bake  the  paste  before  add- 
ing it,  and  when  stewed  fruit  is  used  the  filling  should  be  perfectly  cool  when 
put  in,  or  it  will  make  the  bottom  crust  sodden. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  A  PIE. 

After  making  the  crust,  take  a  portion  of  it,  roll  it  out  and  fit  it  to  a  buttered 
pio-plate  by  cutting  it  oflf  evenly  around  the  edge;  gather  up  the  scraps  left  from 
cutting  and  make  into  another  sheet  for  the  top  crust;  roll  it  a  little  thinner  than 
the  under  crust;  lap  one  half  over  the  other  and  cut  three  or  four  slits  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  from  the  folded  edge,  (this  prevents  the  steam  from  escaping 
through  the  rim  of  the  pie,  and  causing  the  juices  to  run  out  from  the  edges). 
Now  fill  your  pie-plate  with  your  prepared  filling,  wet  the  top  edge  of  the  rim, 
lay  the  upper  crust  across  the  centre  of  the  pie,  turn  back  the  half  that  is  lapped 
over,  seal  the  two  edges  together  by  slightly  pressing  down  with  your  thumb,, 
then  notch  evenly  and  regularly  with  a  three-tined  fork,  dipping  occasionally  in 
flour  to  prevent  sticking.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  a  light  brown,  and  until 
the  filling  boils  up  through  the  shts  in  the  upper  crust. 

To  prevent  the  juice  soaking  through  into  the  crust,  making  it  soggy,  wet. 
the  under  crust  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  just  before  you  put  in  the  pie  mixture* 
If  the  top  of  the  pie  is  brushed  over  with  the  egg,  it  gives  it  a  beautiful  glaze. 

FOR  ICING  PASTRY. 

To  ice  pastry,  which  is  the  usual  method  adopted  for  fruit  tarts  and  sweet 
dishes  of  pastry,  put  the  white  of  an  egg  on  a  plate,  and  with  the  blade  of  a 
knife  beat  it  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  the  pastry  is  nearly  baked,  brush  it  over 
with  this,  and  sift  over  some  pounded  sugar;  put  it  back  into  the  oven  to  set  the 
glaze,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  wiU  be  done.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that 
the  paste  does  not  catch  or  bum  in  the  oven,  which  it  is  very  hable  to  do  after 
the  icing  is  laid  on. 

Or  make  a  meringue  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  to  the  beates 
white  of  one  egg.    Spread  over  the  top,  and  slightly  brown  in  the  oven. 


286  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

FINE  PUFF-PASTE- 

Into  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  mix  two  teaspoonfols  of  baking-powd w,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  ihen  sift  again.  Measure  out  one  teacupful  of  butter 
and  one  of  lard,  hard  and  cold.  Take  the  lard  and  rub  into  the  flour  untQ  a  very 
fine,  smooth  paste.  Then  put  in  just  enough  ice-water ,  say  half  a  cupful,  con- 
taining a  beaten  white  of  ^g,  to  mW  a  very  stiff  dough.  Boll  it  out  into  a 
thin  sheet,  fifpread  with  one-fourth  of  the  butter,  sprinkle  over  with  a  little  flour, 
then  roll  up  closely  in  a  long  roll,  like  a  scroll,  double  the  ends  towards  the 
centre,  flatten  and  reroll,  then  spread  again  with  another  quarter  of  the  butter. 
Bepeat  this  operation  until  the  butter  is  used  up.  Put  it  on  an  earthen  dish, 
cover  it  with  a  doth  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place,  in  the  ice-box  in  summer;  let  it 
remain  until  cold;  an  hour  or  more  before  making  out  the  crust.  Tarts  made 
with  this  paste  cannot  be  cut  with  a  knife  when  fresh;  they  go  into  flakes  at  the 
touch. 

Tbu  may  roll  this  pastry  in  any  direction,  from  you,  towards  you,  sideways, 
anyway,  it  matters  not,  but  you  must  have  nice  flour,  ice-vnUer,  and  very  little 
of  it,  and  strength  to  roll  it,  if  you  would  succeed. 

This  recipe  I  purchased  from  a  colored  cook  on  one  of  the  Lake  Michigan 
steamers  many  years  ago,  and  it  is,  without  exception,  the  finest  puff-paste  I 
have  ever  seen« 

PUFF-PASTE  FOR  PIES. 

One  quart  of  pastry  flom:,  one  pint  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
of  sugar,  one  and  a  quarter  cupfuls  of  ice-water.  Wash  the  hands  with  soap 
and  water,  and  dip  them  first  in  very  hot,  and  then  in  cold  water.  Binse  a  large 
bowl  or  pan  with  boiling  water,  and  then  with  cold.  Half  fill  it  with  cold  water. 
Wash  the  butter  in  this,  working  it  with  the  hands  until  it  is  light  and  waxy. 
This  frees  it  from  the  salt  and  buttermilk,  and  lightens  it,  so  that  the  pastry  is 
more  delicate.  Shape  the  butter  into  two  thin  cakes,  and  put  in  a  pan  of  ice- 
water  to  harden.  Mix  the  salt  and  sugar  with  the  flour.  With  the  hands,  rub 
one-third  of  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Add  the  water,  stirring  with  a  knife. 
Stir  quickly  and  vigorously,  imtil  the  paste  is  a  smooth  ball.  Sprinkle  the  board 
lightly  with  flour.  Turn  the  paste  on  this  and  pound  quickly  and  lightly  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Do  not  break  the  paste.  Boll  from  you,  and  to  one  side;  or,  if 
easier  to  roll  from  you  all  the  time,  ixxm  the  paste  around.  When  it  is  about 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  wipe  the  remaining  butter,  break  it  in  bits,  and 
spread  these  on  the  paste.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  flour.  Fold  the  paste,  one- 
third  from  each  side,  so  that  the  edges  meet.    Now  fold  from  the  ends,  but  do 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  287 

not  have  these  meet.  Double  the  paste,  pound  lightly,  and  roll  down  to  about 
one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Fold  as  before,  and  roll  down  again.  Bepeat 
this  three  times,  if  for  pies,  and  six  times  if  for  vol-au-vents,  patties,  tarts,  etc. 
Place  on  the  ice,  to  harden,  when  it  has  been  rolled  the  last  time.  It  should  be 
in  the  ice-chest  at  least  an  hour  before  being  used.  In  hot  weather,  if  the  paste 
sticks  when  being  rolled  down,  put  it  on  a  tin  sheet,  and  place  on  ice.  As  soon 
as  it  is  chilled,  it  will  roll  easily.  The  less  flour  you  use  in  rolling  out  the  paste, 
the  tenderer  it  wiU  be.  No  matter  how  carefully  every  part  of  the  work  may 
be  done,  the  paste  will  not  be  good  if  much  flour  is  used. 

— Maria  Parloa. 

SOYER'S  RECIPE  FOR    PUFF-PASTE. 

To  every  pound  of  flour  allow  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  cold  water,  one  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

Put  the  flour  on  to  the  paste-board;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  into  which 
put  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  the  lemon- juice,  and  salt;  mix  the  whole  with  cold 
water  (this  should  be  iced  in  summer,  if  convenient)  into  a  soft,  flexible  paste 
with  the  right  hand,  and  handle  it  as  Uttle  as  possible;  then  squeeze  all  the 
buttermilk  from  the  butter,  wring  it  in  a  cloth,  and  roll  out  the  paste;  place  the 
butter  on  this,  and  fold  the  edges  of  the  paste  over,  so  as  to  hide  it;  roll  it  out 
again  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch;  fold  over  one-third,  over  which 
again  pass  the  rolling-pin;  then  fold  over  the  other  third,  thus  forming  a 
square;  place  it  with  the  ends,  top,  and  bottom  before  you,  shaking  a  little  flour 
both  under  and  over,  and  repeat  the  rolls  and  turns  twice  again,  as  before. 
Flour  a  baking  sheet,  put  the  paste  on  this,  and  let  it  remain  on  ice  or  in  some 
cool  place  for  half  an  hour;  then  roU  twice  more,  timnng  it  as  before;  place  it 
again  upon  the  ice  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  give  it  two  more  rolls,  making  seven 
in  all,  and  it  is  ready  for  use  when  required. 

RULE  FOR  UNDER  CRUST. 

A  good  rule  for  pie-crust  for  a  pie  requiring  only  an  under  crust, — ^as  a  custard 
or  pumpkin  pie, — is:  Three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  sifted;  rubbing  into  it  a 
large  tablespoonf  ul  of  cold  butter,  or  part  butter  and  part  lard,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  mixing  with  cold  water  enough  to  form  a  smooth,  stiff  paste,  and  rolled 
quite  thin. 

PLAIN  PIE-CRUST. 

Two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  cupful  of  shortening,  haJf  butter 
and  half  lard,  cold;  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 


28«  PASTRY^  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

sifted  through  the  flour.  Rub  thoroughly  the  shortening  into  the  flour.  Mix 
together  with  half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water,  or  enough  to  form  a  rather  stiff 
dough;  mix  as  little  as  possible,  just  enough  to  get  it  into  shape  to  roll  out;  it 
must  be  handled  very  lightly.    This  rule  is  for  two  pies. 

When  you  have  a  Uttle  pie-crust  left,  do  not  throw  it  away;  roll  it  thin,  cut 
it  in  small  squares  and  bake.  Just  before  tea,  put  a  spoonful  of  raspberry  jelly 
on  each  square. 

PUFF-PASTE  OF  SUET. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flom*,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  freed  of  skin,  and  chopped  very  fine,  one  cup- 
ful of  water.  Place  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  powder,  in  a  bowl,  add  suet  and 
water;  mix  into  smooth,  rather  firm  dough. 

This  paste  is  excellent  for  fruit  puddings,  and  dimipUngs  that  are  boiled;  if  it 
is  well  made,  it  will  be  light  and  flaky,  and  the  suet  imperceptible.  It  is  also 
excellent  for  meat  pies,  baked  or  boiled.  All  the  ingredients  should  be  very  cold 
when  mixing,  and  the  suet  dredged  with  flour  after  it  is  chopped,  to  prevent  the 
partides  from  adhering  to  each  other. 

POTATO  CRUST. 

Boil  and  mash  a  dozen  medium-sized  potatoes,  add  one  good  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  butter,  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream. 
Stiffen  with  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out.    Nice  for  the  tops  of  meat  pies. 

TO  MAKE  PIE-CRUST  FLAKY 
In  Tnfl.TriTig  a  pie,  after  you  have  rolled  out  your  top  crust,  cut  it  about  the 
right  size,  spread  it  over  with  butter,  then  shake  sifted  flour  over  the  butter, 
enough  to  cover  it  well.  Out  a  slit  in  the  middle,  place  it  over  the  top  of  your 
pie,  and  fasten  the  edges  as  any  pie.  Now  take  the  pie  on  your  left  hand,  and  a 
dipper  of  cold  water  in  your  right  hand;  tip  the  pie  slanting  a  little,  pour  over 
the  water  sufficiently  to  rinse  off  the  flour.  Enough  flour  wiU  stick  to  the 
butter  to  fry  into  the  crust,  to  give  it  a  flne,  blistered,  flaky  look,  which  many 
cooks  think  is  much  better  than  rolling  the  butter  into  the  crust. 

TARTLETS. 

Tarts  of  strawberry  or  any  other  kind  of  preserves  are  generally  made  of  the 

trunmings  of  puff-paste  rolled  a  httle  thicker  than  for  ordinary  pies;  then  cut 

out  with  a  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  hot  water,  to  make  the  edges  smooth, 

and  placed  in  small  tart-pans,  first  pricking  a  few  holes  at  the  bottom  with  a 


PASTRYy  PIES  AND  TARTS.  289 

fork  before  placing  them  in  the  oven.  Bake  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Let 
the  paste  cool  a  little;  then  fill  it  with  preserve.  By  this  manner,  both  the 
flavor  and  color  of  the  jam  are  preserved,  which  would  be  lost  were  it  baked  in 
the  oven  on  the  paste;  and,  besides,  so  much  jam  is  not  required 

PATTIES,  OR  SHELLS  FOR  TARTS. 

Boll  out  a  nice  puif -paste  thin;  cut  out  with  a  glass  or  cookey-cutter,  and  vdth 
a  wine-glass  or  smaller  cutter,  cut  out  the  centre  of  two  out  of  three;  lay  the 
rings  thus  made  on  the  third,  and  bake  at  once.  May  be  used  for  veal  or  oyster 
patties,  or  filled  with  jelly,  jam  or  preserves,  as  tarts.  Or  shells  may  be  made 
by  lining  patty -pans  with  paste.  If  the  paste  is  light,  the  shells  will  be  fine. 
Filled  with  jelly  and  covered  with  meringue  (tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  the  white 
of  one  e^),  and  browned  in  oven,  they  are  very  nice  to  serve  for  tea. 

If  the  cutters  are  dipped  in  hot  watery  the  edges  of  the  tartlets  will  rise  much 
higher  and  smoother  when  baking. 

TARTLETS. 

Tartlets  are  nice  made  in  this  manner:  Boll  some  good  puff-paste  out  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  two  and  a  half  inch  squares;  brush  each  square  over  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  then  fold  down  the  comers,  so  that  they  all  meet  in  the  middle 
of  each  piece  of  paste;  shghtly  press  the  two  pieces  together,  brush  them  over 
with  the  egg,  sift  over  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  nice  quick  oven  for  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  When  they  are  done,  make  a  Uttle  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  paste, 
and  fill  it  up  vsrith  apricot  jam,  marmalade,  or  red-currant  jelly.  Pile  them  high 
in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  the  same  preserve  the 
tartlets  are  filled  with. 

TARTS. 

Larger  pans  are  required  for  tarts  proper,  the  size  of  small,  shallow  pie- tins; 
ihen  after  the  paste  is  baked  and  cooled  and  filled  with  the  jam  or  preserve,  a 
few  stars  or  leaves  are  placed  on  the  top,  or  strips  of  paste,  criss-crossed  on  the 
top,  all  of  which  have  been  previously  baked  on  a  tin  by  themselves. 

Dried  fruit,  stewed  until  thick,  makes  fine  tart  pies,  also  cranberries,  stewed 
and  well  sweetened. 

GREEN  APPLE  PIE. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  tart  apples  enough  for  a  pie;  sprinkle  over  about  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  small  level  tablespoonful 
of  sifted  fiour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  a  few  bits  of  butter;  stir  all  together 

19 


290  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

with  a  spoon;  put  it  into  a  pie-tin  lined  with  pie-paste;  cover  with  a  top  crust 
and  bake  about  forty  minutes. 

The  result  will  be  a  delicious,  juicy  pie, 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE.    No.  i. 

Three  cupfuls  of  milk,  four  eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of 
thick  stewed  apples,  strained  through  a  colander.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
the  eggs  lightly,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apples,  flavoring  with  nutmeg. 
Then  beat  into  this  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  whites.  Let  the  crust  i)artly  bake 
before  turning  in  this  filling.  To  be  baked  with  only  the  one  crust,  like  411 
custard  pies. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE.    No.  2. 

Select  fair  sweet  apples,  pare  and  grate  them,  and  to  every  teacupful  of  the 
apple  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar,  one  of  melted 
butter,  the  grated  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  half  a  wine-glass  of 
brandy,  and  one  teacupful  of  milk;  mix  all  weU,  and  pour  into  a  deep  plate  lined 
with  paste;  put  a  strip  of  the  paste  aroimd  the  edge  of  the  dish  and  bake  thirty 
minutes. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE.    No.  3. 

Lay  a  crust  in  your  plates;  slice  apples  thin,  and  half  fill  your  plates;  pour 
over  them  a  custard  made  of  four  eggs  and  one  quart  of  milk,  sweetened  and  sea- 
soned to  your  taste. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE.    No.  4. 

Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft,  and  not  much  water  left  in  them;  then 
rub  through  a  colander;  beat  three  eggs  for  each  pie  to  be  baked,  and  put  in  at 
the  rate  of  one  cupful  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar  for  three  pies;  season  with 
nutmeg. 

IRISH  APPLE  PIE. 

Pare  and  take  out  the  cores  of  the  apples,  cutting  each  apple  into  four  or 
eight  pieces,  according  to  their  size.  Lay  them  neatly  in  a  baking  dish,  season- 
ing them  with  brown  sugar,  and  any  spice,  such  as  pounded  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, or  grated  lemon-peel.  A  Uttle  quince  marmalade  gives  a  fine  flavor  to  the 
pie.    Add  a  little  water,  and  cover  with  puff-paste.    Bake  for  an  hour. 

MOCK  APPLE  PIE. 

Crush  finely,  with  a  rolling-pin,  one  large  Boston  cracker;  put  it  into  a  bowl, 
and  pour  upon  it  one  teacupful  of  cold  water;  add  one  teacupful  of  fine  white 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  29 r 

sugar,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  one  lemon,  half  a  lemon-rind  grated,  and  a  little 
nutmeg;  line  the  pie-plate  with  half  puff-paste,  pour  in  the  mixture,  cover  with 
the  paste,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
These  are  proportions  for  one  pie. 

APPLE  AND  PEACH  MERIN«UE  PIE. 
Stew  the  apples  or  peaches  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Mash  smootn  and  season 
with  nutmeg.  Fill  the  crusts  and  bake  until  just  done.  Put  on  no  top  crust. 
Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie,  and  whip  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  sweeten 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  rose-water  or  vanilla; 
beat  until  it  will  stand  alone;  then  spread  it  on  the  pie  one-half  to  one  inch  thick;, 
set  it  back  into  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  ^^  set."    Eat  cold. 

COCOANUT  PIE.    No.  i. 

One-half  cup  dessicated  cocoanut,  soaked  in  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
one  smaU  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  This  is  for  one  small-sized 
pie.    Nice  with  a  meringue  on  top.  ' 

COCOANUT  PIE.    No.  2. 

Cut  off  the  brown  part  of  the  cocoanut,  grate  the  white  part,  mix  it  with 
milk,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  slov,  I7  eight  or  ten  minutes^  To  a 
poimd  of  the  grated  cocoanut,  allow  a  quart  of  milk,  eight  eggs,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  white  sugar,  a  glass  of  wine,  a  small  cracker,  pounded  fine, 
two  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  The  eggs  and  sugar  should 
be  beaten  together  to  a  froth,  then  the  wine  stirred  in.  Put  them  into  the  milk 
and  cocoanut,  which  should  be  first  allowed  to  get  quite  cool;  add  the  cracker 
and  nutmeg,  tmn  the  whole  into  deep  pie-plates,  with  a  lining  and  rim  of  puff- 
paste.    Bake  them  as  soon  as  turned  into  the  plates. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  PIE.    No.  i. 

One  quarter  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated;  one  pint  of  boilmg  water,  six 
eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vaniHa.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into  the  boiling  water, 
and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly  cold,  beat  up  with  this  the  yolks  of  all 
the  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  milk,  season  and 
pour  into  shells  of  good  paste.  When  the  custard  is  **  set " — but  not  more  than 
half  done — spread  over  it  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth,  with  two  tablespoonf ula 
of  sugar.  You  may  bake  these  custards  without  i)aste,  in  a  pudding-dish  or 
cups  set  in  boiling  water 


2g2  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE.    No.  z. 

Pat  some  grated  chocolate  into  a  basin  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
Jet  it  melt  (do  not  add  any  water  to  it);  beat  one  egg  and  some  sugar  in  it;  when 
melted;  spread  this  on  the  top  of  a  custard  pie.    Lovers  of  chocolate  will  like  this. 

LEMON  PIE.    (Superior.) 

Take  a  deep  dish,  grate  into  it  the  outside  of  the  rind  of  two  lemons;  add  to 

iliat  a  cup  and  a  half  of  white  sugar,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  unsifted 

flour,  or  one  of  corn-starch;  stir  it  well  together,  then  add  the  yolks  of  three 

well-beaten  e^s,  beat  this  thoroughly,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  two  cups 

of  water,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wahiut.    Set  this  on  the  fire  in 

another  dish  containing  boiling  water  and  cook  it  until  it  thickens,  and  will  dip 

np  on  the  spoon  like  cold  honey.    Bemove  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  cooled, 

pour  it  into  a  deep  pie-tin,  lined  with  pastry;  bake,  and  when  done,  have  ready 

the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  with  three  small  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Spread  this 

•over  the  top  and  return  to  the  oven  to  set  and  brown  slightly.    This  makes  a 

♦deep,  large-sized  pie,  and  very  superior. 

— JSbbiU  Bouse,  Washington. 

LEMON  PIE.    No.  2. 

One  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  water,  one  tablespoonful 
of  melted  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  the  juice  and  a  httle  of 
"the  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beserve  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  after  the  pie  is 
baked,  spread  them  over  the  top,  beaten  lightly,  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and 
return  to  the  oven  until  it  is  a  light  brown. 

This  may  be  cooked  before  it  is  put  into  the  crust  or  not,  but  is  rather  better 
io  cook  it  first  in  a  double  boiler  or  dish.  It  makes  a  medium-sized  pie.  Bake 
from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes. 

LEMON  PIE.    No.  3- 

Moisten  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  with  a  httle  cold  water,  then 
4uld  a  cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  over  the  fire  till  it  boils  and  cook  the  corn- 
starch, say  two  or  three  minutes;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  cupful  of 
sugar;  take  off  the  fire,  and  when  shghtly  cooled,  add  an  ^g  well  beaten,  and 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon.  Bake  with  a  crust.  This  makes  one 
small  pie. 

LEMON  PIE.    No.  4. 

Two  large,  fresh  lemons,  grate  off  the  rind,  if  not  bitter  reserve  it  for  the 
fllling  of  the  pie;  pare  off  every  bit  of  the  white  skin  of  the  lemon,  (as  it  toughens 


PALTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  293 

^hile  cooking);  then  cut  the  lemon  into  very  thin  slices  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 

take  out  the  seeds;  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  two 

of  sifted  flour.    Put  into  the  pie  a  layer  of  lemon,  then  one  of  sugar,  then  one 

of  the  grated  rind,  and,  lastly,  of  flour,  and  so  on  till  the  ingredients  are  used; 

sprinkle  the  water  over  all,  and  cover  with  upper  crust.    Be  sure  to  have  the 

under  crust  lap  over  the  upper,  and  pinch  it  well,  as  the  syrup  will  cook  all  out 

if  care  is  not  taken  when  finishing  the  edge  of  crust.    This  quantity  makes  one 

medium-sized  pie. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

Grate  the  rind  of  one  and  use  the  juice  of  two  large  oranges.  Stir  together  a 
large  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  to  this  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Eeserve  the 
whites  for  frosting.  Turn  this  into  a  pie-pan  lined  with  pie-paste,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  done  so  as  to  resemble  a  finely  baked  custard,  spread  on  the 
top  of  it  the  beaten  whites,  which  must  be  sweetened  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  spread  evenly,  and  return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

The  addition  of  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  improves  it,  if  convenient  to  have  it. 

BAKERS'  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  thoroughly  a  tablespoonful 
of  sifted  flour  into  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  this  separates  the  particles  of 
flour  so  that  there  will  be  no  lumps;  then  add  it  to  the  beaten  yolks,  put  in  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  next  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  and  lastly,  a  pint  of  scalded  milk  (not  boiled) 
which  has  been  cooled;  mix  this  in  by  degrees,  and  turn  all  into  a  deep  pie-pan, 
lined  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

I  received  this  recipe  from  a  celebrated  cook  in  one  of  our  best  New  York 
bakeries.  I  inquired  of  him  "  why  it  was  that  their  custard  pies  had  that  look 
of  solidity  and  smoothness  that  our  home-made  pies  have  not.''  He  replied, 
"  The  secret  is  the  addition  of  this  hit  of  flour — not  that  it  thickens  the  custard 
any  to  speak  of,  but  prevents  the  custard  from  breaking  or  wheying,  and  gives 
that  smooth  appearance  when  cut." 

CREAM  PIE. 

Pour  a  pint  of  cream  upon  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar;  let  it  stand  until 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  this  to  the  cream, 
and  beat  up  thoroughly;  grate  a  httle  nutmeg  over  the  mixture,  and  bake  with- 
out an  upper  crust.  If  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  is  added  to  it,  as  the  above 
Custard  Pie  recipe,  it  would  improve  it. 


294  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  PIE. 
Line  a  pie-plate  with  a  rich  crust,  and  bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.  When 
done,  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  jelly  or  jam,  then  whip  one  cupful  of  thick 
sweet  cream  until  it  is  as  light  as  possible;  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  and 
flavor  with  vanilla;  spread  over  the  jelly  or  jam;  set  the  cream  where  it  will  get 
very  cold  before  whipping. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  together  until  very  light  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  four  tablespoonf uls 
of  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla;  then  add  the  foin*  beaten  whites,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and,  lastly,  a  quart  of  sweet  milk;  mix  well  and  pour  into  tins  lined  with 
paste.    Bake  until  firm. 

BOSTON  CREAM  PIE. 

Cream  part. — ^Put  on  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil.  Break  two  eggs  into  a  dish,  and 
add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  flour  previously  mixed;  after  beating 
well,  stir  it  into  the  milk  just  as  the  milk  commences  to  boil;  add  an  ounce  of 
butter  and  keep  on  stirring  one  way  imtil  it  thickens;  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon. 

.  Orustpart — Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  and  two 
tablespoonf  uls  of  milk  or  water.  Divide  the  batter  in  half  and  bake  on  two 
medium-sized  pie-tins.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  to  a  straw  color.  When 
done  and  cool,  split  each  one  in  half  vdth  a  sharp  broad-bladed  knife,  and  spread 
half  the  cream  between  each.    Serve  cold. 

The  cake  part  should  be  flavored  the  same  as  the  custard. 

MOCK  CREAM  PIE. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch,  or  three  of  flour;  beat  the  sugar,  corn-starch,  and  yolks  of  the  e^s 
together;  after  the  milk  has  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  mixtiu*e,  and  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  about  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Make  crust  the  same  as  any  pie; 
bake,  then  fill  with  the  custard,  grate  over  a  Httle  nutmeg  and  bake  again. 
Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  to  a'  stifi  froth  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  spread  over  the  top  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Any  fruit  custard,  such  as  pineapple,  banana,  can  be  readily  made  after  the 
recipe  of  "Apple  Custard  Pie.'* 


PASTRY^  PIES  AND  TARTS.  295 

CHERRY  PIE, 

Lme  your  pie-plate  with  good  crust,  fill  half  full  with  ripe  cherries;  sprinkle 
over  them  about  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  sifted  flour,  dot  a  few  bits 
of  butter  over  that.  Now  fill  the  crust  full  to  the  top.  Cover  with  the  upper 
crust,  and  bake. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  of  pies,  if  made  correctly,  and  the  cherries  in  any  case 
should  be  stoned. 

CURRANT  PIE.    No.  i. 

Make  in  just  the  same  way  as  the  Cherry  Pie,  imless  they  are  somewhat 
green,  then  they  should  be  stewed  a  little 

RIPE  CURRANT  PIE.    No.  2. 

One  cupf til  of  mashed  ripe  currants,  one  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  one  of  flour,  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Bake;  frost  the  top 
with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and 
brown  in  oven. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 

Take  medium-sized  tomatoes,  pare,  and  cut  out  the  stem  end.  Having  your 
pie-pan  Uned  with  paste  made  as  biscuit  dough,  sUce  the  tomatoes  very  thin, 
filling  the  pan  somewhat  heaping,  then  grate  over  it  a  nutmeg,  put  in  half  a  cup 
of  butter,  and  a  medium  cup  of  sugar,  if  the  pan  is  rather  deep.  Sprinkle  a 
small  handful  of  flour  over  all,  pouring  in  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  before  adding 
the  top  crust.  Bake  half  an  hour,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  serving  hot.  Is 
good;  try  it. 

APRICOT  MERINGUE  PIE. 

A  canned  apricot  meringue  pie  is  made  by  cutting  the  apricots  fine  and  mix- 
ing them  with  a  half  cup  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  fill  the  crust 
and  bake.  Take  from  the  oven,  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  minutes,  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  white  of  an  e^  and  one  tablespoonf  ul  of 
sugar.  Set  back  in  a  slow  oven  until  it  turns  a  golden  brown.  The  above  pie 
can  be  made  into  a  tart  without  the  addition  of  the  meringue  by  adding  criss- 
cross strips  of  pastry  when  the  pie  is  first  put  into  the  oven. 

All  of  the  above  are  good  if  made  from  the  dried  aud  stewed  apricots  instead 
of  the  caimed,  and  are  much  cheaper. 

•Stewed  dried  apricots  are  a  deUcious  addition  to  mince-meat.  They  may  be 
use  in  connection  with  minced  apples,  or  to  the  exclusion  of  the  latter. 


296  PASTRY,  FIES  AND  TARTS. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE. 

Pat  a  quart  of  picked  huckleberries  into  a  basin  of  water;  take  off  whatever 
floats;  take  up  the  berries  by  the  handful,  pick  out  all  the  stems  and  unripe 
berries>  and  put  them  into  a  dish;  line  a  buttered  pie-dish  with  a  pie-paste,  put  in 
the  berries  half  an  inch  deep,  and  to  a  quart  of  berries,  put  half  of  a  teacupful  of 
brown  sugar;  dredge  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  over,  strew  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  little  nutm^  grated  over;  cover  the  pie,  cut  a  sht  in  the  centre,  or  make  several 
small  incisions  on  either  side  of  it;  press  the  two  crusts  together  around  the  edge^ 
trim  it  off  neatly  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  thre-equarters 
of  an  hour. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

Pick  the  berries  dean,  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  and  finish  as  directed  for 
huckleberries. 

MOLASSES  PIE. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  molasses,  one  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  one  lemon,  nutmeg;  beat  and  bake  in  pastry. 

LEMON  RAISIN  PIE. 

One  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  seeded,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  cupful  of  cold  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Stir  lightly  together  and  bake  with  upper  and  under 
crust. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Cut  the  large  stalks  off  where  the  leaves  commence,  strip  off  the  outside 
skin,  then  cut  the  stalks  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long;  line  a  pie-dish  with  paste 
roUed  rather  thicker  than  a  doUar  piece,  put  a  layer  of  the  rhubarb  nearly  an  inch 
deep;  to  a  quart  bowl  of  cut  rhubarb  put  a  laige  teacupful  of  sugar;  strew  it  over 
with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  nutm^  grated;  shake  over  a  little  flour; 
cover  with  a  rich  pie-crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  trim  off  the  edge  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  pie  loosens  from  the  dish.  Rhubarb 
pies  made  in  this  way  are  altogether  superior  to  those  made  of  the  fruit  stewed. 

RHUBARB  PIE,  COOKED. 

Skin  the  stalks,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  wash,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
with  no  more  water  than  what  adheres  to  them;  when  cooked,  mash  them  fine^ 
and  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter;  when  cool,  sweeten  to  taste;  if  hked  add  a 
little  lemon-peel,  cinnamon  or  nutm^;  line  your  plate  with  thin  crust,  put  in 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  297- 

the  filling,  cover  with  crust,  and  bake  in  a  qaick  oven;  sift  sugar  over  it  when 
served. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

A  grated  pineapple;  its  we^ht  in  sugar;  half  its  weight  in  butter;  one  cupful 
of  cream;  five  eggs;  beat  the  butter  to  a  creamy  froth;  add  the  sugar  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs;  continue  beating  till  very  light;  add  the  cream,  the  pineapple  grated, 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  with  an  under  crust.. 
Eat  cold. 

GRAPE  PIE. 

Pop  the  pulps  out  of  the  skins  into  one  dish,  and  put  the  skins  into  another.. 
Then  simmer  the  pulp  a  little  over  the  fire  to  soften  it;  remove  it  and  rub  it 
through  a  colander  to  separate  it  from  the  seeds.  Then  put  the  skins  and  pulp 
together,  and  they  are  ready  for  pies  or  for  canning  or  putting  in  jugs  fw 
further  use.     Fine  for  pies. 

DAMSON  OR  PLUM  PIE. 

Stew  the  damsons  whole  in  water  only  suflBcient  to  prevent  their  biu-ning; 
when  tender,  and  while  hot,  sweeten  them  with  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  until 
they  become  cold;  then  pour  them  into  pie-dishes  lined  with  paste,  dredge  floin: 
upon  them,  cover  them  with  the  same  paste,  wet  and  pinch  together  the  edges 
of  the  paste,  cut  a  sUt  in  the  centre  of  the  cover  through  which  the  vapor  may 
escape,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Peel,  stone,  and  slice  the  peaches.  line  a  pie-plate  with  crust,  and  lay  in: 
your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liberally  over  them  in  proportion  to  their  sweetness. 
Allow  three  peach  kernels,  chopped  fine,  to  each  pie;  pour  in  a  very  Httle  water, 
and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross-bars  of  paste  across  the  top. 

DRIED  FRUIT  PIES. 

Wash  the  fruit  thoroughly,  soak  over  night  in  water  enough  to  cover.  In 
the  morning,  stew  slowly,  until  nearly  done,  in  the  same  water.  Sweeten  to- 
taste.  The  crust,  both  upper  and  under,  should  be  rolled  thin;  a  thick  crust  ta 
a  fruit  pie  is  undesu-able. 

RIPE  BERRY  PIES. 
All  made  the  same  as  Cherry  Pie.    Line  your  pie-tin  with  crust,  fill  half 
full  of  berries,  shake  over  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  (if  very  juicy),  and  as 


:298  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

much  sugar  as  is  necessary  to  sweeten  sufficiently.    Now  fill  up  the  crtist  to  the 
top,  m5t1ring  quite  fiilL    Cover  with  crust,  and  bake  about  forty  minutes. 

Huckleberry  and  blackberry  pies  are  improved  by  putting  into  them  a  little 
.ginger  and  cinnamon. 

JELLY  AND  PRESERVED  FRUIT  PIES. 

Preserved  fruit  requires  no  baking;  hence,  always  bake  the  sheU,  and  put  in 
the  sweetmeats  afterwards;  you  can  cover  with  whipped  cream,  or  bake  a  top 
•crust  shell;  the  former  is  preferable  for  deUcacy. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Take  fine,  sound,  ripe  crauberries,  and   with  a  sharp  knife  spUt  each  one 

imtil  you  have  a  heaping  coffee-cupful;  put  them  in  a  v^etablo  dish  or  basin; 

put  over  them  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  water,  a  tablespoon  fvU  of 

sifted  flour;  stir  it  aU  together  and  put  into  your  crust.    Cover  with  an  upper 

crust  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven.    You  wiU  find  this  the  true  way  of 

making  a  cranberry  pie. 

— Newport  style. 

CRANBERRY  TART  PIE. 

After  having  washed  and  picked  over  the  berries,  stew  them  well  in  a  little 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  them;  when  they  burst  open,  and  become  soft, 
Bweeten  them  with  plenty  of  sugar,  mash  them  smooth  (some  prefer  them  not 
mashed);  line  your  pie-plates  with  thin  puff  paste,  fill  them,  and  lay  strips  of 
paste  across  the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Or  you  may  rub  them  through 
a  colander  to  free  them  from  the  skins. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Can  be  made  the  same  as  Cranberry  Tart  Pie,  or  an  upper  crust  can  be 
put  on  before  baking.  Serve  with  boiled  custard,  or  a  pitcher  of  good,  sweet 
•cream. 

STEWED  PUMPKIN  OR  SQUASH  FOR  PIES. 

Deep-colored  pumpkins  are  generally  the  best.  Cut  a  pumpkin  or  squash  in 
lialf  ,  take  out  the  seeds,  then  cut  it  up  in  thick  slices,  pare  the  outside  and  cut 
again  in  small  pieces.  Put  it  into  a  large  pot  or  sauce-pan,  with  a  very  little 
water;  let  it  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Now  set  the  pot  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
where  it  will  not  bum,  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  often  until  the  moisture  is 
<lried  out  and  the  pimipkin  looks  dark  and  red.  It  requires  cooking  a  long  time, 
dt  least  half  a  day,  to  have  it  dry  and  rich.    When  cool,  press  through  a  colander. 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  299 

BAKED  PUMPKIN  OR  SQUASH  FOR  PIES. 
Cut  up  in  several  pieces,  do  not  pare  it;  place  them  on  baking- tins  and  set 
them  in  the  oven;  bake  slowly  until  soft,  then  take  them  out,  scrape  all  the 
pumpkin  from  the  shell,  rub  it  through  a  colander.    It  will  be  fine  and  light 
and  free  from  lumps. 

PUMPKIN  PIE.    No.  I. 

For  three  pies:  One  quart  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  boiled  and  strained 
pumpkin,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  Uttle  salt,  one  tablespoonf ul 
each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon.    Beat  all  together  and  bake  with  an  under  crust. 

Boston  marrow  or  Hubbard  squash  may  be  substituted  for  pumpkin,  and  are 
much  preferred  by  many,  as  possessing  a  less  strong  flavor. 

PUMPKIN  PIE.    No.  2. 

One  quart  of  stewed  pumpkin,  pressed  through  a  sieve;  nine  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately;  two  scant  quarts  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg;  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  white  sugar,  or  very  light  brown.  Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust 
without  cover. 

A  tablespoonful  of  brandy  is  a  great  improvement  to  pimipkin  or  squash  pies. 

PUMPKIN  PIE,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  quart  of  properly  stewed  pumpkin,  pressed  through  a  colander;  to  this 
add  enough  good,  rich  milk,  suflScient  to  moisten  it  enough  to  fill  two  good-sized 
earthen  pie-plates,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cupful  of  molasses,  or  brown 
sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  or  nutmeg.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  slow  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

One  pint  of  boiled  dry  squash,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoonf uls  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  pint  of  milk. 
This  makes  two  pies,  or  one  large  deep  one. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

One  pound  of  steamed  sweet  potatoes  finely  mashed,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
cream,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg 
and  bake  in  pastry  shell.    Fine. 


3«>  jPASthy,  pies  and  tarts. 

COOKED  MEAT  FOR  MINCE  PIES. 

la  order  to  succeed  in  haymg  good  mince  pie,  it  is  quite  essential  to  cook  the 
meat  properly^  so  as  to  retain  its  jidces  and  strength  of  flavor. 

Select  four  pounds  of  lean  beef,  the  neck  piece  is  as  good  as  any;  wash  it, 
and  put  it  into  a  kettle  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  it;  take  off  the  scum 
as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  hot  water  from  time  to  time,  until  it  is 
tender,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  take  off  the  cover  and  let  it  boil  until 
almost  dry,  or  until  the  juice  has  boiled  back  into  the  meat.  When  it  looks  as 
though  it  was  beginning  to  fry  in  its  own  juice,  it  is  time  to  take  up,  and  set 
aside  to  get  cold,  which  should  be  done  the  day  before  needed.  Next  day,  when 
making  the  mince-meat,  the  bones,  gristle  and  stringy  bits  should  be  well  picked 
out  before  chopping. 

MINCE  PIES.    No.  z. 

The  "Astor  House,"  some  years  ago,  wasfanums  for  its  "  mince  pies.**  The 
chief  pastry  cook  at  that  time,  by  request,  published  the  recipe.  I  find  that 
those  who  partake  of  it  never  fail  to  speak  in  laudable  terms  of  the  supericnr 
excellence  of  this  recipe,  when  strietiy  followed. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  boiled  beef,  chopped  fine,  twice  as  much  of  chopped  green 
tart  apples,  one  pound  of  chopped  suet,  three  poimds  of  raisins,  seeded,  two 
pounds  of  currants  picked  over,  washed  and  dried,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut 
up  fine,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  cooking  molasses,  two  quarts 
of  sweet  cider,  one  pint  of  boiled  cider,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  pepi)er,  one  tablespoonful  of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves; 
mix  thoroughly  and  warm  it  on  the  range,  until  heated  through.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  when  nearly  cool,  stir  in  a  pint  of  good  brandy,  and  one  pint  of 
Madeira  wine.  Put  into  a  crock,  cover  it  tightly,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place 
where  it  will  not  freeze,  but  keep  perfectly  cold.     Will  keep  good  all  winter. 

— Ckef  da  Cuisine,  Asior  JBouse,  i\r.  T. 

MINCE  PIES.    No.  2. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped  fine.  One 
pound  of  beef  suet,  cleared  of  strings  and  minced  to  powder.  Five  pounds  of 
apples,  pared  and  chopped;  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped;  one 
])Ound  of  Sultana  raisins,  washed  and  picked  over.  Two  i)ounds  of  currants, 
washed  and  carefidly  picked  over.  Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  up 
fine.    Two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  of  powdered  nutmeg,  two  of  mace^ 


PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS.  301 

one  of  cloves,  one  of  allspice,  one  of  fine  salt;  two  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  one  quart  brown  sherry,  one  pint  best  brandy. 

Mince-meat  made  by  this  recipe  will  keep  all  winter.    Cover  closely  in  a  jar, 

and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

— Common  Sense  in  the  Household. 

For  preserving  mince-meat,  look  for  "  Canned  Mince-Meat." 

MOCK  MINCE-MEAT,  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

One  cupful  of  cold  water,  half  a  cupful  of  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  dder  vinegar,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
one  cupful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  one  egg  beaten  hght,  half  a  cupful  of 
rolled  cracker-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonf ul  each  of  cloves, 
allspice,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  black  pepper. 

Put  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire  with  the  water  and  raisins;  let  them  cook  a 
few  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  molasses,  then  the  vinegar,  then  the  other 
ingredients;  lastly,  add  a  wine-glassful  of  brandy.    Very  fine. 

FRUIT  TURNOVER.    (Suitable  for  Picnics.) 

Make  a  nice  puff  paste;  roll  it  out  the  usual  thickness,  as  for  pies;  then  cut 
it  out  into  circular  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small  tea  saucer;  pile  the  &uit  on 
half  of  the  paste,  sprinkle  over  some  sugar,  wet  the  edges,  and  turn  the  paste 
over.  Press  the  edges  together,  ornament  them,  and  brush  the  turnovers  over 
with  the  white  of  an  egg;  sprinkle  over  sifted  sugar,  and  bake  on  tins,  in  a  brisk 
oven,  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Instead  of  putting  the  fruit  in  raw,  it  may  be 
boiled  down  with  a  httle  sugar  first,  and  then  enclosed  in  the  crust;  or  jam  of 
any  kind  may  be  substituted  for  fresh  fruit. 

PLUM  CUSTARD  TARTLETS. 

One  pint  of  greengage  plums,  after  being  rubbed  through  a  sieve;  one  large 
cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Whisk  all  together  until  hght 
and  foamy;  then  bake  in  small  patty-pans  shells  of  puff  paste,  a  light  brown. 
Then  fill  with  the  plum  paste,  beat  the  two  whites  until  stiff;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  the  plum  paste  and  set  the  shells  into 
a  moderate  oven  for  a  few  moments. 

These  are  much  more  easily  handled  than  pieces  of  pie  or  even  pies  whole, 
and  can  be  packed  nicely  for  carrying. 

LEMON  TARTLETS.    No.  i. 
Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire.    When  it  comes  to  the 
boiling  point,  put  into  it  the  following  mixture:  Into  a  bowl  put  a  heaping  table- 


302  PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

spoonful  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  this  all 
together  thoroughly;  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs;  stir  this  one  way 
into  the  boiUng  milk,  until  cooked  to  a  thick  cream;  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
stir  into  it  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  large  lemon.  Have  ready  baked  and 
hot,  some  puff -paste  tart  shells.  Fill  them  with  the  custard,  and  cover  each 
with  a  meringue,  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  sweetened  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.    Put  into  the  oven  and  bake  a  light  straw-color. 

LEMON  TARTLETS.  No.  2. 

Mix  well  together  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  and  the  crumbs  of  sponge  cake;  beat  it  all  together  until 
smooth;  put  into  twelve  patty-pans  lined  with  puff -paste  and  bake  until  the 
crust  is  done. 

ORANGE  TARTLETS. 

Take  the  juice  of  two  large  oranges,  and  the  grated  peel  of  one,  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  stir  in  a  good  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch into  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Beat  all  well 
together,  and  bake  in  tart  shells  without  cover. 

MERINGUE  CUSTARD  TARTLETS. 

Select  deep  individual  pie-tins;  fluted  tartlet  pans  are  suitable  for  custard 
tarts,  but  they  should  be  about  six  inches  in  diameter  and  from  two  to  three 
inches  deep.  Butter  the  pan  and  line  it  with  ordinary  puff-paste,  then  fill  it 
with  a  custard  made  as  follows:  Stir  gradually  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Stir 
until  free  from  lumps  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  put  the  sauce-pan  on 
the  range  and  stir  until  the  custard  coats  the  spoon.  Do  not  let  it  boil  or  it  will 
curdle.  Pour  it  in  a  bowl,  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  flavoring  and  stir  until  the 
custard  becomes  cold;  flll  the  lined  mold  with  this  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  In  the  meantime,  put  the  white  of  the  eggs  in  a  bright  copper  vessel  and 
beat  thoroughly,  using  a  baker's  wire  egg-beater  for  this  purpose.  While  beat- 
ing, sprinkle  in  lightly  half  a  pound  of  sugar  andadashof  salt.  When  the  paste 
is  quite  flrm,  spread  a  thin  layer  of  it  over  the  tart  and  decorate  the  top  with 
the  remainder  by  squeezing  it  through  a  paper  funnel.  Strew  a  little  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top,  return  to  the  oven,  and  when  a  delicate  yellow  tinge  remove 
from  the  Qven,  and  when  cold,  serve. 


PASTRYy  PIES  AND  TARTS.  303 

BERRY  TARTS, 
line  small  pie-tins  with  pie-crust,  and  bake.  Just  before  ready  to  use,  fill 
the  tarts  with  strawberries,  blackberries,  raspberries,  or  whatever  berries  are  in 
season.  Sprinkle  over  each  tart  a  little  sugar;  after  adding  berries  add  also  to 
each  tart  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream.  They  form  a  delicious  addition  to  the 
breakfast  table. 

CREAM  STRAWBERRY  TARTS. 

After  picking  over  the  berries  carefully,  arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  deep  pie- 
tin  lined  with  puff -paste,  sprinkling  sugar  thickly  between  each  layer;  fill  the 
pie- tin  pretty  full,  poming  in  a  quantity  of  the  juice;  cover  with  a  thick  crust, 
with  a  sht  in  the  top,  and  bake.  When  the  pie  is  baked^  pour  into  the  sUt  in  the 
top  of  the  pie  the  following  cream  mixture:  Take  a  small  cupful  of  the  cream 
from  the  top  of  the  morning's  milk,  heat  it  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  stir  into 
it  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  hght,  also  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk.  Boil  all  together  a  few  moments 
until  quite  smooth;  set  it  aside,  and  when  cool,  pour  it  into  the  pie  through  the 
slit  in  the  crust.     Serve  it  cold  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Raspberry,  blackberry,  and  whortleberry  may  be  made  the  same. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  TART. 

Top  and  tail  the  gooseberries.    Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  enough  water 

to  prevent  burning,  and  stew  slowly  until  they  break.     Take  them  off,  sweeten 

welly  and  set  aside  to  cool.     WTien  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells,  and  bake  with  a 

top  crust  of  puff -paste.    Brush  all  over  with  beaten  egg  while  hot,  set  back  in 

the  oven  to  glaze  for  three  minutes.    Eat  cold. 

— Common  Sense  in  the  Household. 

COCOANUT  TARTS. 

Take  three  cocoanuts,  the  meats  grated,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  half  a  cupful 
of  white  sugar,  season,  a  wine-glass  of  milk;  put  the  butter  in  cold,  and  bake 
in  a  nice  puff-paste. 

CHOCOLATE  TARTS. 
Pour  eggs,  whites  and  yolks;  one  half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated;  one 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  water;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
four  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  melted;  i-ub  the  choco- 
late smooth  in  the  milk,  and  heat  to  boiUng  over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch.    Stir  five  minutes  until  well  thickened,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour 


304  PASTRY^  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

into  a  bowL    Beat  all  the  ydks  and  the  whites  of  two  egg;3  wdl  with  the  sugar, 

and  when  the  chocolate  mixtme  is  afanost  cold,  pot  all  together  with  the  flaYor- 

ingy  and  stir  nntQ  U^t.    Bake  in  open  sheDs  of  pastry.    Whrai  done,  cover  with 

a  meringoe  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggB  and  two  taUe^KXHifiils  of  sogar 

flavored  with  a  teaspo(»ifal  of  lanon- jnioe.    Eat  cold. 

These  are  nice  for  tea^  baked  in  patty-pans. 

— Oomamom  Ssmm  in  ik$  BnuehoUL 

MAIDS  OF  HONOR. 

Take  <Hie  capful  of  soar  milk,  one  of  sweet  milk,  a  tabIeqx>onfal  of  melted 
batter,  the  ydk  of  four  egg^  joice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  small  capfal  of 
white  poanded  sugar.  Pat  both  kinds  of  milk  together  in  a  Tessel,  which  is  set 
in  another,  and  let  it  become  soffidently  heated  to  set  the  card,  then  strain  off 
the  milk,  rob  the  card  throag^  a  strainer,  add  batter  to  the  card,  the  sugar, 
well-beaten  egg^  and  lemon.  line  the  little  pans  with  the  richest  of  puff- 
paste,  and  fin  with  the  mixture ;  bake  untQ  firm  in  the  centre,  fitmi  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes. 

GERMAN  FRUIT  PIE. 

Sift  together  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and  a  pint  of  flour;  add 
a  jneoe  of  batter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  beaten  egg,  and  sweet 
milk  enou^  to  make  a  soft  don^i.  BoU  it  out  half  an  inch  thick;  butter  a 
square  biscuit  tin,  and  cover  the  bottom  and  sides  with  the  dough;  fill  the  pan 
with  quartered  juicy  apples,  sprinkle  with  a  little  cinnamon  and  molasses.  Bake 
in  rather  quick  oven  untQ  the  crust  and  apples  are  cooked  a  light  brown.  Sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over  the  top  five  minutes  before  removing  from  the  oven. 

Bipe  peaches  are  fine,  used  in  the  same  manner. 

APPLE  TARTS. 

Pare,  quarter,  core  and  boil  in  half  a  cupful  of  water  untQ  quite  soft,  ten 
large,  tart  aisles;  beat  until  very  smooth  and  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  or  three 
whole  ones,  the  juice  and  grated  outside  rind  of  two  lemons,  half  a  cup  butter, 
one  and  a  half  of  sugar  (or  more,  if  not  sufiBdently  sweet);  beat  all  thoroughly, 
line  patty-pans  with  a  puff-paste,  and  fill;  bake  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Meringue. — ^If  desired  very  nice,  cover  them  when  removed  from  the  oven 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  three  ^gs  remaining,  mixed  with  three 
tablespoonfnls  sugar;  return  to  the  oven  and  delicately  brown. 

CREAM  TARTS. 

Make  a  rich,  brittle  crust,  with  which  cover  your  patty-pans,  smoothing  off 
the  edges  nicely,  and  bake  well.    While  these  ^^  shells  "  are  cooling,  take  one 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  305 

teacupful  (more  or  less  according  to  the  number  of  taxts  you  want)  of  perfectly 
sweet  and  fresh  cream,  skinmied  free  of  milk;  put  this  into  a  large  bowl  or  other 
deep  dish,  and  with  your  egg-beater  whip  it  to  a  thick,  stiff  froth;  add  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  fine,  white  sugar,  with  a  teaspoonful  (a  small  one)  of  lemon 
or  vanilla.    Fill  the  cold  shells  with  this  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  tea  is  ready. 

OPEN  JAM  TARTS. 

Time  to  bake  until  paste  loosens  from  the  dish.  line  shallow  tin  dish  with 
puff-paste,  put  in  the  jam,  roll  out  some  of  the  paste,  wet  it  lightly  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 
Cfut  it  in  very  narrow  strips,  then  lay  them  across  the  tart,  lay  another  strip 
around  the  edge,  trim  off  outside,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHESS  CAKES. 

Peel  and  grate  one  cocoanut;  boil  one  pound  of  sugar  fifteen  minutes  in  two- 
thirds  of  a  pint  of  water;  stir  in  the  grated  cocoanut  and  boil  fifteen  minutes 
longer.  While  warm,  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  add  the  yolks  of 
seven  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  patty-pans  with  rich  paste.  If  prepared  cocoa- 
nut  is  used,  take  one  and  a  half  coffee-cupfuls.    Fine. 


Custarbs,  Creams  anb  Desserts. 

The  usual  rule  for  custards  is,  eight  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk;  but  a  very  good 
custard  can  be  made  of  six,  or  even  less,  especially  with  the  addition  of  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  sifted  fiour,  thoroughly  blended  in  the  sugar  first,  before  adding 
the  other  ingredients.  They  may  be  baked,  boiled  or  steamed,  either  in  cups  or 
one  large  dish.  It  improves  custards  to  first  boil  the  milk  and  then  cool  it  before 
being  used;  also  a  httle  salt  adds  to  the  flavor.  A  very  small  lump  of  butter 
may  also  be  added,  if  one  wants  something  especially  rich. 

To  make  custards  look  and  taste  better,  duck's  eggs  should  be  used  when 
obtainable;  they  add  very  much  to  the  flavor  and  richness,  and  so  many  are  not 
required  as  of  ordinary  eggs,  four  duck's  eggs  to  the  pint  of  milk  making  a 
dehcious  custard.  When  desired  extremely  rich  and  good,  cream  should  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  milk,  and  double  the  quantity  of  eggs  used  to  those  mentioned, 
omitting  the  whites. 

When  making  boiled  custard,  set  the  dish  containing  the  custaod  into  another 

20 


3o6  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

and  larger  dish,  partly  filled  with  boiling  water,  placed  over  the  fire.  Let  the 
cream  or  milk  come  almost  to  a  boil  before  adding  the  eggs  or  thickening,  then 
stir  it  briskly  one  way  every  moment  until  smooth  and  well  cooked;  it  must  not 
boil  or  it  wiU  curdle. 

To  bake  a  custard,  the  fire  should  be  moderate,  and  the  dish  well  buttered. 

Everything  in  baked  custard  depends  upon  the  regularly  heated  slow  oven. 
If  made  with  nicety,  it  is  the  most  delicate  of  all  sweets;  if  cooked  till  it  wheys, 
it  is  hardly  eatable. 

Frozen  eggs  can  be  made  quite  as  good  as  fresh  ones  if  used  as  soon  as  thawed 
soft.  Drop  them  into  boiling  water,  letting  them  remain  imtil  the  water  is  cold. 
They  will  be  soft  all  through  and  beat  up  equal  to  those  that  have  not  been 
touched  with  the  frost. 

Eggs  should  always  be  thoroughly  well-beaten,  separately,  the  yolks  first* 
then  the  sugar  added,  beat  again,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  with  the  flavoring, 
then  the  cooled  scalded  milk.  The  lighter  the  eggs  are  beaten,  the  thicker  and 
richer  the  custard. 

Eggs  should  always  be  broken  into  a  cup,  the  whites  and  yolks  separated, 
and  they  should  always  be  strained.  Breaking  the  eggs  thus,  the  bad  ones  may 
be  easily  rejected  without  spoiling  the  others,  and  so  cause  no  waste. 

A  meringue,  or  frosting  for  the  top,  requires  about  a  tablespoonful  of  fine 
sugar  to  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg;  to  be  placed  on  the  top  after  the  custard 
or  pudding  is  baked;  smoothed  over  with  a  broad-bladed  knife  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  replaced  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

SOFT  CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  reserving  a  cupful.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  cold  milk 
to  them.  Stir  the  sugar  in  a  small  frying-pan  until  it  becomes  liquid  and  just 
begins  to  smoke.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk;  then  add  the  beaten  ^gs  and 
cold  milk,  and  stir  constantly  imtil  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Set  away  to 
cooL    Serve  in  glasses. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Beat  five  fresh  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  the  yolks  with  half  a 
cup  of  sugar,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  stir  them  gradually  into  a  quart  of 
sweet,  rich  milk,  previously  boiled  and  cooled;  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon  or 
vanilla,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bub  butter  over  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  baking-dish  or  tin  basin;  pour  in  the  custard,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  307 

and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  is  better  to  set  the  dish  in  a  shallow  pan  of  hot 
water,  reaching  nearly  to  the  top,  the  water  to  be  kept  boiling  until  the  custard 
is  baked;  three-quarters  of  an  hour  is  generally  enough.  Bim  a  teaspoon  handle 
into  the  middle  of  it;  if  it  comes  out  clean  it  is  baked  suflftciently. 

CUP  CUSTARD. 

Six  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  new  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  the 
sugar  and  milk,  and  any  extract  or  flavoring  you  like.  FLU  your  custard  cups, 
sift  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  over  the  tops,  set  them  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a 
shallow  pan  half  filled  with  hot  water.  In  about  twenty  minutes  try  them 
with  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon  to  see  if  thej  are  firm.  Judgment  and  great  care 
are  needed  to  attain  skill  in  baking  custard;  for  if  left  in  the  oven  a  minute  too 
lonp.  or  if  the  fire  is  too  hot,  the  milk  will  certainly  whey. 

Serve  cold,  with  fresh  fruit  sugared  and  placed  on  top  of  each.  Strawberries, 
peaches  or  raspberries,  as  preferred. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Beat  seven  eggs  very  light,  omitting  the  whites  of  two;  mix  them  gradually 
with  a  quart  of  milk  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  boil  in  a  dish  set  into  another 
of  boiling  water;  add  flavoring.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  remove 
it  or  it  will  be  Uable  to  curdle  and  become  lumpy.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  two 
eggs  that  remain,  adding  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  the  cus- 
tard is  cold,  heap  this  on  top;  if  in  cups  put  on  a  strawberry,  or  a  bit  of  red  jelly 
on  each.    Set  in  a  cold  place  till  wanted. 

— Common  Sense  in  the  Households 

BOILED  CUSTARD,  OR  MOCK  CREAM. 

Take  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  heat  the  milk  to  nearly 
boiling,  and  add  the  starch,  previously  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  cold  milk;  then  add 
the  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  let  it  boil  up 
once  or  twice,  stirring  it  briskly,  and  it  is  done.  Flavor  with  lemon,  or  vanilla, 
or  raspberry,  or  to  suit  your  taste. 

A  good  substitute  for  ice  cream^  served  very  cold. 

FRENCH  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  eight  eggs,  sugar  and  cinnamon  to  taste;  separate  the 
eggs,  beat  the  yolks  until  thick,  to  which  add  the  milk,  a  little  vanilla,  and 
sweeten  to  tast^;  put  it  into  a  pan  or  fariaa  kettle,  place  it  over  a  slow  fire  and 


«1 


08  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 


stir  it  all  the  time  until  it  becomes  custard;  then  pour  it  into  a  pudding-dish 
to  get  cold;  whisk  the  whites  until  stiff  and  dry;  have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  on  the  top  of  which  place  the  whites;  cover  and  place  them  where  the 
water  will  keep  sufficiently  hot  to  cause  a  steam  to  pass  through  and  cook  them; 
place  in  a  dish  (suitable  for  the  table)  a  layer  of  custard  and  white  alternately; 
on  each  layer  of  custard  grate  a  little  nutmeg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  wine;  reserve 
a  layer  of  white  for  the  cover,  over  which  grate  nutmeg;  then  send  to  table,  and 
eat  cold. 

GERMAN  CUSTARD. 

Add  to  a  pint  of  good,  rich,  boiled  custard  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds, 
blanched,  roasted,  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  and  half  an  ounce  of  pine-nuts  or 
peanuts,  blanched,  roasted  and  pounded;  also  a  small  quantity  of  candied  citron 
cut  into  the  thinnest  possible  slips;  cook  the  custard  as  usual,  and  set  it  on  the 
ice  for  some  hom^  before  using. 

APPLE  CUSTARD. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  a  dozen  large  juicy  pippins.  Stew  among  them  the 
yellow  peel  of  a  large  lemon  grated  very  fine;  and  stew  them  till  tender  in  a 
very  small  portion  of  water.  When  done,  mash  them  smooth  with  the  back  of 
a  spoon  (you  must  have  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  stewed  apple);  mix  a  half- 
cupful  of  sugar  with  them,  and  set  them  away  till  cold.  Beat  six  ^gs  very 
light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  alternately  with  the 
stewed  apple.  Put  the  mixture  into  cups,  or  into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  it  about 
twenty  minutes.    Send  it  to  table  cold,  with  nutmeg  grated  over  the  top. 

ALMOND  CUSTARD.    No.  i. 

Scald  and  blanch  half  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds,  and  three  ounces  of 
bitter  almonds,  throwing  them,  as  you  do  them,  into  a  large  bowl  of  cold  water. 
Then  pound  them,  one  at  a  time,  into  a  paste,  adding  a  few  drops  of  wine  or 
rose-water  to  them.  Beat  eight  eggs  very  hght,  with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  then  mix  altogether  with  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  or  part  milk  and  part 
cream;  put  the  mixture  into  a  sauce-pan  and  set  it  over  the  fire.  Stir  it  one 
way  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  but  not  till  it  curdles;  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  cooled,  put  in  a  glass  dish.  Having  reserved  part  of  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth,  season  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract;  spread  over  the  top  of  the  custard.  Serve 
cold. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  309 

ALMOND  CUSTARD.    No.  2. 

Blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  pound  them  as  in  No.  1  above, 
with  six  oimces  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  mix  them  well  with  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs;  then  dissolve  one  ounce  of  patent  gelatine  in  one  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  pour  into  it  the  other  mixture;  stir  the  whole  over 
the  fire  until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth;  then  pour  it  into  your  mold,  and  keep 
it  upon  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place,  until  wanted;  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  the 
mold  into  warm  water,  rub  it  with  a  cloth,  and  turn  out  the  cream  carefully 
upon  your  dish. 

SNOWBALL  CUSTARD. 

Soak  half  a  package  of  Coxe's  gelatine  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water  one  hour, 
to  which  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  two  teacupfuls 
of  sugar  in  the  gelatine  water  first,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  egg,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  or  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Whip 
it  some  time  imtil  it  is  all  quite  stiff  and  cold.  Dip  some  teacups  or  wine-glasses 
in  cold  water  and  fill  them;  set  in  a  cold  place. 

In  the  meantime,  make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  of  the  eggs, 
with  half  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  milk;  flavor  with  vanilla  extract. 
Now  after  the  meringue  in  the  cups  has  stood  four  or  five  hours,  turn  them  out 
of  the  molds,  place  them  in  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  this  custard  around  the  base. 

BAKED  COCOANUT  CUSTARD. 

Grate  as  much  cocoanut  as  will  weigh  a  pound.  Mix  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered white  sugar  with  the  milk  of  .the  cocoanut,  or  with  a  pint  of  cream,  add- 
ing two  tablespoonf uls  of  rose  water.  Then  stir  in  gradually  a  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  eight  e^s,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  and 
sugar,  a  Uttie  at  a  time,  alternately  with  the  grated  cocoanut;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  powdered  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Then  put  the  mixture  into  cups,  and  bake 
them  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  set  in  a  pan  half  filled  with  boiling 
water.    When  cold,  grate  loaf  sugar  over  them. 

WHIPPED  CREAM.    No.  i. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  pint  of  thick,  sweet 
cream  (previously  set  where  it  is  very  cold),  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 
wine,  with  three  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  the  extract  of  lemon 
or  vanilla.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  on  a  broad  platter  or  pan,  and  whip 
it  to  a  standing  froth;  as  the  froth  rises,  take  it  off  lightiy  with  a  spoon,  and  lay 


310  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

it  on  an  inverted  sieve  with  a  dish  under  it  to  catch  what  will  drain  through; 
and  what  drains  through  can  be  beaten  over  again. 

Serve  in  a  glass  dish  with  jelly  or  jam,  and   sliced    sponge   cake.     This 
should  be  whipped  in  a  cool  place,  and  set  in  the  ice-box. 

WHIPPED  CREAM.  No.  2. 
Three  coffee-cupfuls  of  good  thick  sweet  cream,  half  of  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla;  whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth.  Dissolve  three- 
fourths  of  an  ounce  of  best  gelatine  in  a  teacup  of  hot  water^  and  when  cool 
pour  it  in  the  cream  and  stir  it  gently  from  the  bottom  upward,  cutting  the 
cream  into  it,  until  it  thickens.  The  dish  which  contains  the  cream  should 
be  set  in  another  dish  containing  ice  water,  or  cracked  ice.  When  finished,  pour 
in  molds  and  set  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cold  place. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 
Take  one  quart  of  milk  and  soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  it  for  an  hour; 
place  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  often.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light  with 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  into  the  scalding  milk,  and  heat  imtil  it  begins  to  thicken, 
(it  should  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle);  remove  from  the  fire,  and  strain  through 
thin  muslin  or  tarletan,  and  when  nearly  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon;  then 
wet  a  dish  or  mold  in  cold  water  and  set  aside  to  stiffen. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  together  with  a 
cupful  of  sugar.  Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  or  isinglass  in  half  a  teacup- 
ful  of  warm  water;  when  it  is  dissolved,  stir  in  a  pint  of  boiling  hot  cream;  add 
the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar;  cook  all  together  imtil  it  begins  to  thick^i,  then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  other  pint  of  cold  cream,  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth;  adding  a  Httle  at  a  time,  and  beating  hard.  Season  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  the  top.  Dip  the  mold  in  cold  water  before 
fiUing;  set  it  in  a  cold  place.  To  this  could  be  added  almonds>  pounded;  grated 
chocolate,  peaches,  pineapples,  strawberries,  raspberries  or  any  seasonable  fruit. 

STRAWBERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Pick  off  the  hulls  of  a  box  of  strawberries,  bruise  them  in  a  basin  with  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar;  i-ub  this  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  one  oimce  and  a  half  of  clarified  isinglass  or  gelatine;  pour  the  cream 
into  a  mold,  previously  oiled.  Set  it  in  rough  ice,  and  when  it  has  become  firm 
turn  out  on  a  dish 

Raspberries  or  ciurants  may  be  substituted  for  strawberries. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  311 

GOLDEN  CREAM. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk;  when  boiling,  stir  into  it  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six 
^gs;  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sift-ed  flour, 
which  have  been  well- beaten  together;  when  boiled,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  it  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  mixing  with  them  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar.  Set  all  in  the  oven,  and  brown  shghtly.  Flavor  the  top 
with  vaniUa,  and  the  bottom  with  lemon.    Serve  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM.    No.  x. 

Three  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  cream,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  clarified  isinglass,  or  gelatine,  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well;  put  them  into  a  basin  with  the  grated  choco- 
late, the  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  the  cream;  stir  these  ingredients  well  together, 
pour  them  into  a  basin,  and  set  this  basin  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiUng  water;  stir 
it  one  way  until  the  mixture  thickens,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  hoil,  or  it  will 
curdle.  Strain  the  cream  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  stir  in  the  isinglass  and 
the  other  one-half  pint  of  cream,  which  should  be  well  whipped;  mix  aU  well 
together,  and  pour  it  into  a  mold  which  has  been  previously  oiled  with  the 
purest  salad-oil,  and,  if  at  hand,  set  it  in  ice  xmtil  wanted  for  table. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  OR  CUSTARD.  No.  2. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  and  when  nearly  boiling  stir  in  two  ounces  of  grated 
chocolate;  let  it  warm  on  the  fire  for  a  few  moments,  and  then  remove  and  cool; 
beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  two  whites  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
then  pour  the  milk  over  them;  flavor  and  bake  as  any  custard,  either  in  cups  or 
a  large  dish.    Make  a  meringue  of  the  remaining  whites. 

LEMON  CREAM.     No.i. 

One  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar,  one  large  lemon,  one  oimce  isinglass  or  gelatine. 

Put  the  cream  into  a  lined  sauce-pan,  with  the  sugar,  lemon-peel,  and  isin- 
glass, and  simmer  these  over  a  gentle  fire  for  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  them 
all  the  time.  Strain  the  cream  into  a  basin  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  which  should 
be  well -beaten,  and  put  the  basin  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water;  stir  the  mix- 
ture one  way  until  it  thickens,  hut  do  not  allow  it  to  boil;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and 
keep  stirring  it  until  nearly  cold.  Strain  the  lemon- juice  into  a  basin,  gradually 
pour  on  it  the  cream,  and  stir  it  well  until  the  juice  is  well  mixed  with  it.    Have 


3 1 2  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

ready  a  well-ofled  mold,  pour  the  cream  into  it,  and  let  it  remain  untQ  perfectly 
set.  When  required  for  table,  loosen  the  edges  with  a  small  blunt  knife,  put  a 
dish  on  the  top  of  the  mold,  turn  it  over  quickly^  and  the  cream  should  easily 
slip  away. 

LEMON  CREAM.    No.  2. 

Pare  into  one  quart  of  boUing  water  the  peels  of  four  lai^  lemons,  the  yellow 
outside  only;  let  it  stand  for  four  hours;  then  take  them  out  and  add  to  the 
water  the  juice  of  the  four  lemons,  and  one  cupful  of  white,  fine  sugar.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  and  mix  all  together;  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  lawn  or 
lace  into  a  porcelain  lined  stew-pan;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire;  stir  it  one  way  imtil 
it  is  as  thick  as  good  cream,  hut  do  not  let  it  boil;  then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  when  cool^  serve  in  custard  cups. 

LEMON  CREAM.    No.  3- 

Peel  three  lemons,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  into  one  quart  of  milk.  Add 
the  peel;  cut  in  pieces  and  cover  the  mixture  for  a  few  hours;  then  add  six  eggs, 
well-beaten,  and  one  pint  of  water,  well-sweetened.  Strain  and  simmer  over  a 
gentle  fire  till  it  thickens;  do  not  let  it  boil.    Serve  very  cold. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

Whip  a  pint  of  cream  eo^  long  that  there  will  be  but  one-half  the  quantity  left 
when  skimmed  off.  Soak  in  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  a  half  package  of  gela- 
tine, and  then  grate  over  it  the  rind  of  two  oranges.  Strain  the  juice  of  six 
oranges,  and  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  sugar;  now  put  the  half  pint  of  un whipped 
cream  into  a  double  boiler,  pour  into  it  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  stirring 
until  it  b^ins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  gelatine.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  let  it 
stand  for  two  minutes  and  add  the  orange  juice  and  sugar;  beat  all  together  until 
about  the  consistency  of  soft  custard,  and  add  the  whipped  cream.  Mix  weU, 
and  turn  into  moulds  to  harden.    To  be  served  with  sweetened  cream.    Fine. 

SOLID  CREAM. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar,  one  quart  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  brandy,  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon. 

Strain  the  lemon- juice  over  the  sugar,  and  add  the  brandy,  then  stir  in  the 
cream,  put  the  mixture  into  a  pitcher  and  continue  pouring  from  one  pitcher  to 
another,  imtil  it  is  quite  thick,  or  it  may  be  whisked  imtil  the  desired  con- 
sistency is  obtained.    It  should  be  served  in  jelly-glasses. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  313 

BANANA  CREAM. 
After  peeling  the  bananas,  mash  them  with  an  iron  or  wooden  spoon;  allow 
equal  quantities  of  bananas  and  sweet  cream;  to  one  quart  of  the  mixture,  allow 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.    Beat  them  all  together  until  the  cream  is  light. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM  CUSTARD. 

Soak  three  heaping  tablespoonf uls  of  tapioca  in  a  teacupful  of  water  over 
night.  Place  over  the  fire  a  quart  of  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the 
tapioca;  a  good  pinch  of  salt;  stir  until  it  thickens;  then  add  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Stir  it  quickly  and  pour  it  into  a  dish  and 
stir  gently  into  the  mixture  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  the  flavoring,  and  set  it  on 
ice,  or  in  an  ice-chest. 

PEACH  CREAM.    No.  i. 

Mash  very  smooth  two  cupfuls  of  canned  peaches,  rub  them  through  a  sieve, 
and  cook  for  three  minutes  in  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  together  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  stirring  all  the  time.  Place  the  pan  containing  the  syrup  and  peaches 
into  another  of  boiling  water  and  add  one-half  packet  of  gelatine,  prepared  the 
same  as  in  previous  recipes,  and  stir  for  five  minutes  to  thoroughly  dissolve  the 
gelatine;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  place  in  a  pan  of  ice- water,  beat  until  nearly 
cool,  and  then  add  the  well-frothed  whites  of  six  eggs.  Beat  this  whole  mix- 
ture until  it  commences  to  harden.  Then  pour  into  a  mould,  set  away  to  cool, 
and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  It  should  be  placed  on  the  ice  to  cool  for  two 
or  three  hours  before  serving. 

PEACH  CREAM.    No.  2. 

A  quart  of  fine  peacnes,  pare  and  stone  the  fruit  and  cut  in  quarters.  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  a  half  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  until  it  is  stiff 
enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  Take  the  yolks  and  mix  with  half  a  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  the  peaches  into  the  mixtiu^,  place 
in  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  until  almost  firm;  then  put  in  the  whites,  mixing  all 
thoroughly  again,  and  bake  a  Ught  brown.      Eat  ice-cold. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

Put  two  pints  of  cream  into  two  bowls;  with  one  bowl  mix  six  ounces  of 
powdered  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  large  lemons  and  two  glassfuls  of  white 
wine;  then  add  the  other  pint  of  cream,  and  stir  the  whole  very  hard;  boil  two 
ounces  of  isinglass  or  gelatine  with  four  small  teacupf uls  of  water  till  reduced  to 


SH  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

ODe-half ;  then  stir  the  mixture  lukewarm  into  the  other  ingredients;  put  them 
in  a  glass  dish  to  congeal. 

SNOW  CREAM. 

Heat  a  quart  of  thick,  sweet  cresim;  when  ready  to  hoil,  stir  into  it  quickly 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  flour,  blended  with  some  cold  cream;  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  allow  it  to  boil  gently,  stirring  for  two  or  three  minutes;  add 
quickly  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  up 
more  than  once  after  adding  the  egg;  flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla,  bitter  almoDd 
or  grated  lemon  peel;  lay  the  snow  thus  formed  quickly  in  rocky  heaps  on  silver 
or  glass  dishes,  or  in  shapes.    Iced,  it  will  turn  out  well. 

K  the  recipe  is  closely  followed,  any  family  may  enjoy  it  at  a  trifling  expense, 
and  it  is  really  worthy  the  table  of  an  epicure.  It  can  be  made  the  day  before 
it  is  to  be  eaten;  kept  cold. 

MOCK  ICE. 

Take  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  some  good  preserve;  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
with  as  much  cream  as  will  fill  a  quart  mould;  dissolve  three-quarters  of  an 
ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  water;  when  almost  cold,  mix  it 
well  with  the  cream;  put  it  into  a  mold;  set  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  turn  out 
next  day. 

PEACH  MERINGUE. 

Pare  and  quarter  (removing  stones)  a  quart  of  sound,  ripe  peaches;  place  them 
all  in  a  dish  that  it  will  not  injure  to  set  in  the  oven,  and  yet  be  suitable  to  place 
on  the  table.  Sprinkle  the  peaches  with  sugar,  and  cover  them  well  with  the 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Stand  the  dish  in  the  oven,  until  the  eggs  have 
become  a  deUcate  brown,  then  remove,  and,  when  cool  enough,  set  the  dish  on 
ice,  or  in  a  very  cool  place.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  to  them  a  pint  of 
milk,  sweeten  and  flavor,  and  boil  same  in  a  custard  kettle,  being  careful  to  keep 
the  eggs  from  curdling.  When  cool,  pour  into  a  glass  pitcher  and  serve  with 
the  meringue  when  ready  to  use. 

APPLE  FLOAT. 

One  dozen  apples,  pared  and  cored,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar.  Put  the 
apples  on  with  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  stew  until  they  look 
as  if  they  would  break;  then  take  them  out  and  put  the  sugar  into  the  same 
water;  let  the  syrup  come  to  a  boil;  put  in  the  apples,  and  let  them  stew  until 
done  through  and  clear;  then  take  them  out,  sUce  into  the  syrup  one  laige 
lemon,  and  add  an  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.    Let  the 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  315 

whole  mix  well  and  come  to  a  boil;  then  pom*  upon  the  apples.    The  syrup  will 
congeal.    It  is  to  be  eaten  cold  with  cream. 

Or  you  may  change  the  dish  by  making  a  soft  custard  with  the  yolk  of  four 
€ggs,  three  tablespoonf uls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  scant  quart  of  milk.  When 
cold,  spread  it  over  the  apples.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  e^s,  flavor  with  lemon, 
and  place  on  the  custard.    C!olor  in  the  oven. 

SYLLABUB. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  a  cupful  of  wine,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar; 
put  the  sugar  and  wine  into  a  bowl,  and  the  milk  lukewarm  in  a  separate  vessel. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  in  the  wine,  pour  the  milk  in,  holding  it  high;  pour 
it  back  and  forth  until  it  is  frothy.    Grate  nutmeg  over  it. 

CREAM  FOR  FRUIT. 

This  recipe  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  pure  cream,  to  be  eaten  on  fresh 
•  berries  and  fruit. 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  heat  it  until  boiling.  Beat  together  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
nutmeg.  Now  add  half  a  cupful  of  cold  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch; 
stir  well  together  until  very  Ught  and  smooth,  then  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk; 
cook  it  until  it  thickens;  it  must  not  boil.  Set  it  aside  to  cool.  It  should  be  of 
the  consistence  of  real  fresh  cream.    Serve  in  a  creamer. 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE. 

One  quart  of  strawberries,  half  a  package  of  gelatine,  one  cupful  and  a  half 
of  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Soak  the  gelatine  for  two  hours  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  water.  Mash  the  straw- 
berries, and  add  half  the  sugar  to  them.  Boil  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and 
the  water  gently  twenty  minutes.  Rub  the  strawberries  through  a  sieve.  Add  the 
gelatine  to  the  boiling  syrup  and  take  from  the  fire  immediately;  then  add  the 
strawberries.  Place  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  and  beat  five  minutes.  Add  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  in  the  molds 
and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Easpberry  and  black- 
berry sponges  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

LEMON  SPONGE. 

Lemon  sponge  is  made  from  the  juice  of  f otir  lemons,  four  eggs,  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  half  a  package  of  gelatine,  and  one  pint  of  water.  Strain  lemon  juice  on 
the  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  remainder  of  the  water, 


3l6  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

having  used  a  half  cupful  of  the  pint  in  which  to  soak  the  gelatine.  Add  the 
sugar  and  lemon  to  this  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  gela- 
tine. Strain  this  into  a  basin,  which  place  in  a  pan  of  water  to  cool.  Beat  with  a 
whisk  until  it  has  cooled  but  not  hardened;  now  add  the  white  of  the  eggs  until 
it  begins  to  thicken,  turn  into  a  mold  and  set  to  harden. 

Bemember,  the  sponge  hardens  very  rapidly  when  it  commences  to  cool,  so 
have  your  molds  all  ready.    Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Stew  some  fine-flavored  sour  apples  tender,  sweeten  to  taste,  strain  them 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  break  into  one  pint  of  strained  apples  the  white 
of  an  egg;  whisk  the  apple  and  egg  very  briskly  till  quite  stiff,  and  it  will  be  as 
white  as  snow;  eaten  with  a  nice  boiled  custard  it  makes  a  very  desirable 
dessert.    More  eggs  may  be  used,  if  liked. 

QUINCE  SNOW. 

Quarter  five  fair-looking  quinces,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  tender  in  water, 
then  peel  them  and  push  them  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Sweeten  to  the  taste 
and  add  the  whites  of  three  or  four  eggs.  Then  with  an  ^g- whisk  beat  all  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  pile  with  a  spoon  upon  a  glass  dish  and  set  away  in  the  ice-box, 
unless  it  is  to  be  served  immediately. 

ORANGE  TRIFLE. 

Take  the  thin  parings  from  the  outside  of  a  dozen  oranges  and  put  to  steep 
in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle;  cover  it  with  good  cognac,  and  let  it  stand  twenty- 
four  hours;  skin  and  seed  the  oranges,  and  reduce  to  a  pulp;  press  this  through  a 
sieve,  sugar  to  taste,  arrange  in  a  dish,  and  heap  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  the  orange  brandy;  ice  two  hours  before  serving. 

LEMON  TRIFLE. 

The  juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one,  one  pint  of  cream,*  well- 
sweetened  and  whipped  stiff,  one  cupful  of  sherry,  a  Uttle  nutmeg.  Let  sugar, 
lemon- juice,  and  peel  lie  together  two  hours  before  you  add  wine  and  nutmeg. 
Strain  through  double  tarlatan,  and  whip  gradually  into  the  frothed  cream.  Serve 
very  soon  heaped  in  small  glasses.    Nice  with  cake. 

FRUIT  TRIFLE. 

Whites  of  four  ^gs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  sugar, 
currant  jelly  and  raspberry  jam.  Eaten  with  sponge  cakes,  it  is  a  delicious 
dessert. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  317 

GRAPE    TRIFLE. 

Pulp  through  a  sieve  two  pounds  of  ripe  grapes,  enough  to  keep  back  the 
stones,  add  sugar  to  taste.  Put  into  a  trifle  dish,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream, 
nicely  flavored.    Serve  very  cold. 

APPLE  TRIFLE. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  some  good  tart  apples  of  nice  flavor,  and  stew  them 
with  a  strip  of  orange  and  a  strip  of  quince-peel,  suflBcient  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  and  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  to  one 
pound  of  fruit;  when  cooked,  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve;  and  when  cold, 
dish,  and  cover  with  one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  lemon-peel. 

Quinces  prepared  in  the  same  manner  are  equally  as  good. 

PEACH  TRIFLE. 

Select  perfect,  fresh  peaches,  peel  and  core  and  cut  in  quarters;  they  should 
be  well  siigared,  arranged  in  a  trifle  dish  with  a  few  of  their  own  blanched  kernels 
among  them,  then  heaped  with  whipped  cream  as  above;  the  cream  should  not 
be  flavored;  this  trifle  should  be  set  on  the  ice  for  at  least  an  hour  before  serv- 
ing; home-made  sponge  cakes  should  be  served  with  it. 

GOOSEBERRY  TRIFLE. 

One  quart  of  gooseberries,  sugar  to  taste,  one  pint  of  custard,  a  plateful  of 
whipped  cream. 

Put  the  gooseberries  into  a  jar,  with  sufiicient  moist  sugar  to  sweeten  them, 
and  boil  them  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Put  this  pulp  at  the  bottom  of  a  trifle 
dish ;  pomr  over  it  a  pint  of  custard,  and,  when  cold,  cover  with  whipped  cream. 
The  cream  should  be  whipped  the  day  before  it  is  wanted  for  table,  as  it  will 
then  be  so  much  firmer  and  more  solid.  This  dish  may  be  garnished  as  fancy 
dictates. 

LEMON  HONEY. 

One  coflfee-cupful  of  white  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  large 
lemon,  the  yolk  of  three  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Put  into  a  basin  the  sugar  and  butter,  set  it  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water  over  the 
fire;  while  this  is  melting,  beat  up  the  e^s,  and  add  to  them  the  grated  rind 
from  the  outside  of  the  lemon;  then  add  this  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  cooking 
and  stirring  it  until  it  is  thick  and  dear  like  honey. 

This  will  keep  for  some  days,  put  into  a  tight  preserve  jar,  and  is  nice  for 
flavoring  pies,  etc. 


3l8  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

FLOATING  ISLANDS. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  five  ^gs  and  the  whites  of  two  very  lights  sweeten  with 
five  tablespoonfols  of  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste;  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  scalded 
milk  and  cook  it  until  it  thickens.  When  cool,  pour  it  into  a  glass  dish.  Now 
whip  the  whites  of  the  three  remaining  e^s  to  a  ^iff  froth;  adding  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  Uttle  flavoring.  Pour  this  froth  over  a  shallow  dish 
of  boiling  water;  the  steam  passing  through  it  cooks  it;  when  sufficiently  cooked, 
take  a  tablespoon  and  drop  spoonfuls  of  tins  over  the  top  of  the  custard,  far 
enough  apart  so  that  the  ^^  httle  white  islands  "  will  not  touch  each  other.  By 
dropping  a  teaspoonful  of  bright  jelly  on  the  top  or  centre  of  each  island,  is  pro- 
duced a  pleasing  effect;  also  by  filling  wine-glasses  and  arranging  them  around 
a  standard  adds  much  to  the  appearance  of  the  table. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  %gs,  and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Scald  the 
milk,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  one  of  the  whites  together  with  the  sugar. 
First  stir  into  them  a  little  of  the  scalded  milk  to  prevent  curdling,  then  all  of 
the  milk.  Cook  it  the  proper  thickness;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool, 
flavor;  then  pour  it  into  a  glass  dish  and  let  it  become  very  cold.  Before  it  is 
served,  beat  up  the  remaining  four  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat 
into  them  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly. 
Dip  this  over  the  top  of  the  custard. 

TAPIOCA  BLANC  MANGE. 

Half  a  poimd  of  tapioca,  soaked  an  hour  in  one  pint  of  milk,  and  boiled  tiU 
tender;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  into  a  mold;  when  cold, 
turn  it  out,  and  serve  with  strawberry  or  raspberry  jam  around  it  and  a  little 
cream.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

BLANC   MANGE.    No.  z. 

In  one  teacupf  ul  of  water  boil  until  dissolved  one  ounce  of  clarified  isinglass, 
or  of  patent  gelatine,  (which  is  better);  stir  it  continually  while  boiling.  Then 
squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  upon  a  cnipful  of  fine,  white  sugar;  stir  the  sugar 
into  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  wine;  when  it 
is  well  mixed,  add  the  dissolved  isinglass  or  gelatine,  stir  all  well  together,  pour 
it  into  molds  previously  wet  with  cold  water;  set  the  molds  upon  ice,  let  them 
stand  until  their  contents  are  hard  and  cold,  then  serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or 
custard  sauce. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  319 

BLANC  MANGE.    No,  2- 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  patent  gelatine  in  cold  water;  when  it  is  dissolved, 
stir  it  into  two  quarts  of  rich  milk,  with  a  teacupful  of  fine  white  sugar;  season 
it  to  your  taste  with  lemon,  or  vanilla,  or  peach  water;  place  it  over  the  fire  and 
boil  it,  stirring  it  continually;  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  then  strain  it  through  a 
doth,  pour  it  into  molds  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  salt;  let  it  stand 
on  ice,  or  in  any  cool  place,  until  it  becomes  hard  and  cold;  turn  it  out  carefully 
upon  dishes  and  serve;  or,  half  fill  your  mold;  when  this  has  set,  cover  with 
cherries,  peaches  in  halves,  strawberries  or  sliced  bananas,  and  add  the  re- 
mainder. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  cupful  of  water  for  an  hour,  half  a  cupful 
of  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  httle  milk.  Boil  two  cupfuls  of  milk, 
then  add  the  gelatine  and  chocolate,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar;  boil  all  together 
eight  or  ten  minutes.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold  beat  into 
this  the  whipped  whites  of  three  eggs,  flavored  with  vanilla.  Should  be  served 
cold  with  custard  made  of  the  yolks,  or  sugar  and  cream.  Set  the  molds  in  a 
cold  place. 

CORN-STARCH  BLANC  MANGE. 

Take  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  and  put  one  pint  upon  the  stove  to  heat;  in  the 
other  pint  mix  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  and  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar;  when  the  milk  is  hot,  pour  in  the  cold  milk  with  the  corn-starch  and 
sugar  thoroughly  mixed  in  it,  and  stir  all  together  until  there  are  no  liunps  and 
it  is  thick;  flavor  with  lemon;  take  from  the  stove,  and  add  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

A  Custard  for  the  above. — One  pint  of  milk  boiled  with  a  Uttle  salt  in  it; 
beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  add  to  the  boiling 
milk;  stir  well,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  until  the  eggs  are  put  in;  flavor  to  taste. 

FRUIT  BLANC  MANGE. 

Stew  nice,  fresh  fruit  (cherries,  raspberries,  and  strawberries  being  the  best), 
or  canned  ones  will  do;  strain  off  the  juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste;  place  it  over 
the  fire  in  a  double  kettle  until  it  boils;  while  boiling,  stir  in  corn-starch  wet 
with  a  little  cold  water,  allowing  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  to  each  pint 
of  juice;  continue  stirring  until  sufficiently  cooked;  then  pour  into  molds  wet  in 
cold  water,  and  set  away  to  cool.    Served  with  cream  and  sugar. 


320  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE. 

For  two  molds  of  medium  size,  soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cupfol 
of  water  for  two  hours.  Add  one  and  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  strain. 
Then  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  orange  juice  and  pulp,  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  cool,  or  about  five  minutes;  then 
add  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  the  whole  until  so  stiff 
that  it  will  only  just  pour  into  molds  lined  with  sections  of  orange.  Set  away 
to  cool. 

STRAWBERRY  CHARLOTTE.  ^ 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  flavor  to  taste.  Line  a  glass  fruit  dish  with  slices 
of  sponge  cake,  dipped  in  sweet  cream;  lay  upon  this  ripe  strawberries  sweetened 
to  taste;  then  a  layer  of  cake  and  strawberries  as  before.  When  the  custard  is 
cold,  pour  over  the  whole.  Now  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
a  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  and  put  over  the  top.  Decorate  the  top 
with  the  largest  berries  saved  out  at  the  commencement. 

Baspberry  Charlotte  may  be  made  the  same  way. 


RUSSE.    (Fine.) 

Whip  one  quart  of  rich  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  drain  well  on  a  nice  sieve. 
To  one  scant  pint  of  milk  add  six  eggs  beaten  very  light;  make  very  sweet; 
flavor  high  with  vanilla.  Cook  over  hot  water  till  it  is  a  thick  custard.  Soak 
one  full  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  very  httle  water,  and  warm  over  hot  water. 
When  the  custard  is  very  cold,  beat  in  Hghtly  the  gelatine  and  the  whipped 
cream.  Line  the  bottom  of  your  mold  with  buttered  paper,  the  side  with 
sponge  cake  or  lady-fingers  fastened  together  with  the  white  of  an  egg.  FQl 
with  the  cream,  put  in  a  cold  place,  or  in  summer  on  ice.  To  turn  out,  dip  the 
mold  for  a  moment  in  hot  water.  In  draining  the  whipped  cream,  all  that  drips 
through  can  be  re-whipped. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Cut  stale  sponge  cake  into  sUces  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  line  three  molds 
with  them,  leaving  a  space'  of  half  an  inch  between  each  slice;  set  the  molds 
where  they  will  not  be  disturbed  imtil  the  filling  is  ready.  Take  a  deep  tin  pan 
and  fill  about  one-third  full  of  either  snow  or  pounded  ice,  and  into  this  set 
another  pan  that  will  hold  at  least  four  quarts.  Into  a  deep  bowl  or  pail  (a  whip 
chmn  is  better)  put  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cream  (if  the  cream  is  very  thick  take 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  321 

one  pint  of  cream  and  a  half  pint  of  milk);  whip  it  to  a  froth,  and  when  the 

bowl  is  full,  skim  the  froth  into  the  pan  which  is  standing  on  the  ice,  and 

repeat  this  imtil  the  cream  is  all  froth;  then  with  a  spoon  draw  the  froth  to  one 

side,  and  you  wiU  find  that  some  of  the  cream  has  gone  back  to  milk;  turn  this 

into  the  bowl  again,  and  whip  as  before;  when  the  cream  is  all  whipped,  stir  into 

it  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  half  of 

a  box  of  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it  for 

one  hour,  and  then  dissolved  in  boiling  water  enough  to  dissolve  it  (about  half 

a  cup);  stir  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan  tmtil  it  begins  to  grow  stiff;  fill  the  molds 

and  set  them  on  ice  in  the  pan  for  one  hour,  or  imtil  they  are  sent  to  the  table. 

When  ready  to  dish  them,  loosen  lightly  at  the  sides  and  turn  out  on  a  fiat  dish. 

Have  the  cream  ice-cold  when  you  begin  to  whip  it;  and  it  is  a  good  plan  to  put 

a  lump  of  ice  into  the  cream  while  whipping  it. 

— Jforia  Parloa. 

ANOTHER  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  Uttle  cold  milk  two  hours;  two 
coffeecupfuls  of  rich  cream;  one  teacupful  of  milk.  Whip  the  cream  stiff  in  a 
large  bowl  or  dish;  set  on  ice.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  gradually  over  the  gela- 
tine until  dissolved,  then  strain;  when  nearly  cold,  add  the  whipped  cream,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time.  Sweeten  with  powdered  sugar,  flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla, 
line  a  dish  with  lady-fingers  or  sponge  cake;  pour  in  cream,  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
to  harden.  This  is  about  the  same  recipe  as  M.  Parloa's,  but  is  not  as  explicit  in 
detail. 

PLAIN  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Make  a  rule  of  white  sponge  cake;  bake  in  narrow,  shallow  pans.  Then 
make  a  custard  of  the  yolks,  after  this  recipe.  Wet  a  sauce-pan  with  cold  water 
to  prevent  the  milk  that  will  be  scalded  in  it  from  burning.  Pour  out  the  water 
and  put  in  a  quart  of  milk;  boil  and  partly  cool.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  Qggs, 
and  add  three  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  mix  thoroughly  and 
add  the  hike- warm  milk.  Stir  and  pour  the  custard  into  a  porcelain  or  double 
sauce-pan,  and  stir  while  on  the  range  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream;  do  not 
allow  it  to  boil,  as  that  would  curdle  it;  strain,  and  when  almost  cold,  add  two 
teaspoonf uls  of  vanilla.  Now  having  arranged  your  cake  (cut  into  inch  slices) 
around  the  sides  and  on  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish,  pour  over  the  custard.  If 
you  wish  a  meringue  on  the  top,  beat  up  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  fiavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  spread  over  the  top,  and  brown 
slightly  in  the  oven. 

21 


322  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

PLAIN  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.    No.  2. 

Put  some  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  sauce-dish;  pour 
in  wine  enough  to  soak  it;  beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very  light;  add 
to  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  powdered  sugar,  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and 
one  pint  of  thick,  sweet  cream;  beat  it  well,  and  pour  over  the  cake.  Set  it  in  a 
cold  place  until  served. 

NAPLE  BISCUITS,  OR  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Make  a  double  rule  of  sponge  cake;  bake  it  in  round,  deep  patty-pans;  when 
cold,  cut  out  the  inside  about  one  quarter  of  an  inch  from  the  edge  and  bottom, 
leaving  the  shell.  Beplace  the  inside  with  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  beaten  with  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  sweetened  and  flavored;  lay  on  the  top 
of  this  some  jeUy  or  jam;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  three  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  until  it  will  stand  in  a  heap;  flavor  it  a  little; 
place  this  on  the  jelly.    Set  them  aside  in  a  cold  place  until  time  to  serve. 

ECONOMICAL  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Make  a  quart  of  nicely  flavored  mock  custard,  put  it  into  a  large  glass 
fruit  dish,  which  is  partly  filled  with  stale  cake  (of  any  kind)  cut  up  into  small 
pieces  about  an  inch  square,  stir  it  a  little,  then  beat  the  whites  of  two  or  more 
eggs  stiff,  sweetened  with  white  sugar;  spread  over  the  top,  set  in  a  refrigerator 
to  become  cold. 

Or,  to  be  still  more  economical:  To  make  the  cream,  take  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  milk,  set  it  on  the  stove  to  boil;  mix  together  in  a  bowl  the  following  named 
articles:  large  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  moderately  heaped  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  egg,  a  small  half  cup  of 
milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  into  the  boiling  milk,  remove  to  top  of  the  stove 
and  let  simmer  a  minute  or  two.  When  the  cream  is  cold  pour  over  the  cake 
just  before  setting  it  on  the  table.  Serve  in  saucers.  If  you  do  not  have  plenty 
of  eggs  you  can  use  all  corn-starch,  about  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls;  but  be 
careful  .and  not  get  the  cream  too  thick,  and  have  it  free  from  lumps. 

The  cream  should  be  flavored,  either  with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  Nut- 
m^  might  answer. 

TIPSY  CHARLOTTE. 

Take  a  stale  sponge  cake,  cut  the  bottom  and  sides  of  it,  so  as  to  make  it 
stand  even  in  a  glass  fruit  dish;  make  a  few  deep  gashes  through  it  with  a  sharp 
knife,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  good  wine,  let  it  stand  and  soak  into  the  cake.    Li 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  323 

the  meantime,  blanch,  peel  and  slice  lengthwise  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds; 
stick  them  all  over  the  top  of  the  cake.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  good  boiled  cus- 
tard, well  flavored,  and  pom:  over  the  whole.  To  be  dished  with  a  spoon.  This 
is  equally  as  good  as  any  Charlotte. 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE. 

One- third  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  one- third 
of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
and  one  cupful  of  orange -juice  and  pulp,  a  Uttle  grated  orange-peel  and 
the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  one  hour.  Pour 
the  boiling  water  over  the  lemon  and  orange  juice,  cover  it  and  let  stand  half  an 
hour;  then  add  the  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  on  the  fire,  stir  in  the  gelatine,  and 
when  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire.  When  cool  enough,  beat 
into  it  the  f  oiu*  beaten  whites  of  egg,  turn  into  the  mold  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
to  stiffen,  first  placing  pieces  of  sponge  cake  all  aroimd  the  mold. 

BURNT  ALMOND  CHARLOTTE. 

One  cupful  of  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  box  of  gela- 
tine soaked  two  hours  in  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water;  when  the  gelatine  is  suffi- 
ciently soaked,  put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  into  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire 
and  stir  until  it  becomes  liquid  and  looks  dark;  then  add  the  chopped  almonds 
to  it,  and  stir  two  minutes  more;  turn  it  out  on  a  platter  and  set  aside  to  get 
cool.  After  they  become  cool  enough,  break  them  up  in  a  mortar,  put  them  in 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  cook  again  for  ten  minutes.  Now  beat  together 
the  yolk  of  two  eggs  with  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  add  to  the  cooking  mixtm-e; 
add  also  the  gelatine;  stir  until  smooth  and  well  dissolved;  take  from  the  fire  and 
set  in  a  basin  of  ice- water  and  beat  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add  to  that 
two  quarts  of  whipped  cream,  and  turn  the  whole  carefully  into  molds,  set 
away  on  the  ice  to  become  firm.  Sponge  cake  can  be  placed  around  the  mold  or 
not,  as  desired. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE,  WITH  PINEAPPLE. 

Peel  and  cut  a  pineapple  in  slices,  put  the  slices  into  a  stew-pan  with  half  a 
pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  or  of  patent  gelatine, 
(which  is  better),  and  half  a  teacupful  of  water;  stew  it  until  it  is  quite  tender, 
then  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  place  it  upon  ice,  and  stir  it  well;  when  it  is  upon 
the  point  of  setting,  add  a  pint  of  cream  weU  whipped,  mix  it  well,  and  pour  it 
into  a  mold  lined  with  sponge  cake,  or  prepared  in  any  other  way  you  prefer. 


324  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

COUNTRY  PLUM  CHARLOTTE. 

Stone  a  quart  of  ripe  plums;  first  stew,  and  then  sweeten  them.  Cut 
of  bread  and  butter,  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  and  around  the  sides  of  a  large 
bowl  or  deep  dish.  Pour  in  the  plums  boiling  hot,  cover  the  bowl,  and  set  it 
away  to  cool  gradually.    When  quite  cold,  send  it  to  table,  and  eat  it  with  cream. 

VELVET  CREAM,  WITH  STRAWBERRIES. 

Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  water;  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of 
light  sherry,  grated  lemon^peel  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  five  ounces  of 
sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Then  strain 
and  cooL  Before  it  sets  beat  into  it  a  pint  of  cream;  pour  into  molds  and  keep 
on  ice  until  wanted.  Half  fill  the  small  molds  with  fine  strawberries,  pour  the 
mixture  on  top,  and  place  on  ice  until  wanted. 

CORN-STARCH  MERINGUE. 

Heat  a  quart  of  milk  untQ  it  boils,  add  four  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch which  has  previously  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  constantly 
while  boiling,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  and  gradually  add 
while  hot  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  beaten  together  with  three-fourths  of  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  flavored  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  bitter  almond.  Bake  this  mixture 
for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish  or  until  it  b^ins  to  "  set." 

Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  five  e^s,  whipped  stiff  with  a  half  cupful 
of  jelly,  and  spread  evenly  over  the  custard,  without  removing  the  same  farther 
than  the  edge  of  the  oven. 

Use  currant  jelly  if  vanilla  is  used  in  the  custard,  crab-apple  for  bitter  almond, 
and  strawberry  for  lemon.  Cover  and  bake  for  five  minutes,  after  which  take 
off  the  hd  and  brown  the  meringue  a  very  little.  Sift  powdered  sugar  thickly 
over  the  top.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

This  recipe  is  the  same  as  ^'  Boston  Cream  Pie,"  (adding  half  an  ounce  of  but- 
ter,) which  may  be  found  under  the  head  of  "  Pastry,  Pies  and  Tarts. "  In  summer 
time,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  bake  the  pie  the  day  before  wanted;  then  when  cool, 
wrap  around  it  a  paper  and  place  it  in  the  ice-box  so  as  to  have  it  get  very  cold; 
then  serve  it  with  a  dish  of  fresh  strawberries,  or  raspberries.   A  delicious  dessert. 

CREAM  PIE.    No.  2. 
Make  two  cakes  as  for  Washington  pie,  then  take  one  cup  of  sweet  cream 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.    Beat  with  egg-beater  or  fork  till  it  is 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  325 

stiff  enough  to  put  on  without  running  oflf,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.    If  you  beat 
it  after  it  is  stiff  it  will  come  to  butter.    Put  between  the  cakes  and  on  top. 

DESSERT  PUFFS. 

Puffs  for  dessert  are  delicate  and  nice;  take  one  pint  of  milk  and  cream  each^ 
the  white  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  heaping  cupful  of  sifted  flom*, 
one  scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  add  a  Uttle  grated  lemon-peel,  and  a  little 
salt;  beat  these  all  together  till  very  Ught,  bake  in  gem-pans,  sift  pulverized 
sugar  over  them,  and  eat  with  sauce  flavored  with  lemon. 

PEACH  CAKE  FOR  DESSERT. 

Bake  three  sheets  of  sponge-cake,  as  for  jelly-cake;  cut  nice  ripe  peaches  in 
thin  sUces,  or  chop  them;  prepare  cream  by  whipping,  sweetening  and  adding 
flavor  of  vanilla,  if  desired;  put  layers  of  peaches  between  the  sheets  of  cake; 
pour  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top.  To  be  eaten  soon  after  it  is 
prepared. 

FRUIT  SHORT-CAKES. 

For  the  recipes  of  strawberry,  peach  and  other  fruit  short-cakes,  look  under 
the  head  of  "Biscuits,  Rolls  and  Muffins.''  They  all  make  a  very  delicious 
dessert  when  served  with  a  pitcher  of  fresh,  sweet  cream,  when  obtainable. 

SALTED  OR  ROASTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  almonds.  Put  with  them  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  and  one  of  salt.  Stir  them  till  well  mixed,  then  spread  them  over  a 
baking-pan  and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  crisp,  stirring  often.  They  must  be 
bright  yellow-brown  when  done.  They  are  a  fashionable  appetizer,  and  should 
be  placed  in  ornamental  dishes  at  the  beginning  of  dinner,  and  are  used  by  some 
in  place  of  olives,  which,  however,  should  also  be  on  the  table,  or  some  fine 
pickles  may  take  their  place. 

ROAST  CHESTNUTS. 

Peel  the  raw  chestnuts  and  scald  them  to  remove  the  inner  skin;  put  them 
in  a  frying-pan  with  a  Uttle  butter  and  toss  them  about  a  few  moments;  add 
a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  a  suspicion  of  cayenne.    Serve  them  after  the  cheese. 

Peanuts  may  be  blanched  and  roasted  the  same. 

AFTER-DINNER  CROUTONS. 
These  crispy  croutons  answer  as  a  substitute  for  hard- water  crackers,  and 
are  also  relished  by  most  people. 

Cut  sandwich -bread  into  shoes  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  each  sUce 


326  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

into  four  small  triangles;  dry  them  in  the  oven  slowly  untQ  they  assmne  a  deli- 
cate brownish  tint,  then  serve,  either  hot  or  cold.  A  nice  way  to  serve  them  is 
to  spread  a  paste  of  part  butter  and  part  rich,  creamy  cheese,  to  which  may  be 
added  a  very  little  minced  parsley. 

ORANGE  FLOAT. 
To  make  orange  float,  take  one  quart  of  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  two 
lemons,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar.  When  boiling  hot,  add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn-starch.  Let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold, 
pour  it  over  four  or  five  oranges  that  have  been  sUced  into  a  glass  dish,  and  over 
the  top  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla.     A  nice  dessert. 

LEMON  TOAST. 

This  dessert  can  be  made  very  conveniently  without  much  preparation. 

Take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beat  them  well,  and  add  three  cupfuls  of  sweet 
milk;  take  baker's  bread,  not  too  stale  and  cut  into  slices;  dip  them  into  the 
milk  and  eggs,  and  lay  the  slices  into  a  spider,  with  sufficient  melted  butter,  hot, 
to  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Take  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs,  and  beat  them  to  a 
froth,  adding  a  large  cupful  of  white  sugar;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  heating 
well,  and  adding  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Serve  over  the  toast  as  a  sauce, 
and  you  will  find  it  a  very  deUdous  dish. 

SWEET  OMELET.    No.  i. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four  eggs. 
Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  flour  and  butter  together ;  add  to  them 
gradually  the  boiling  milk,  and  cook  eight  minutes,  stirring  often;  beat  the  su- 
gar and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  together;  add  to  the  cooked  mixture,  and  set  away 
to  cool.  When  cool,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the 
mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.    Serve  immediately^  with  creamy  sauce. 

SWEET  OMELET.    No.  2. 

Four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract,  one  cupful  of  whipped  cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  gradually  beat  the  flavoring  and  sugar  into  them.  When  well 
beaten  add  the  yolks,  and  lastly,  the  whipped  cream.  Have  a  dish  holding 
about  one  quart  slightly  buttered.  Pour  the  mixture  into  this  and  bake  just 
twelve  minutes.    Serve  the  moment  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  327 

SALAD  OF  MIXED  FRUITS. 

Put  in  the  centre  of  a  dish  a  pineapple  properly  pared,  cored  and  sliced,  yet 
retaining  as  near  as  practicable  its  original  shape.  Peel,  quarter  and  remove  the 
seeds  from  four  sweet  oranges;  arrange  them  in  a  border  around  the  pineapple. 
Select  foiu:  fine  bananas,  peel  and  cut  into  slices  lengthwise;  arrange  these 
zigzag-fence  fashion  around  the  border  of  the  dish.  In  the  V-shaped  spax^s 
around  the  dish  put  tiny  mounds  of  grapes  of  mixed  colors.  When  complete, 
the  dish  should  look  very  appetizing.  To  half  a  pint  of  clear  sugar  syrup  add 
half  an  oiuice  of  good  brandy,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  serve. 

ORANGE  COCOANUT  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  a  dozen  oranges,  grate  a  cocoanut,  and  slice  a  pineapple.  Put 
alternate  layers  of  each  until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  pour  over  them  sweetened 
wine.    Served  with  small  cakes. 

When  oranges  ^are  served  whole,  they  should  be  i)eeled  and  prettily  arranged 
in  a  fruit  dish.  A  small  knife  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Break  the  skin  from 
the  stem  into  six  or  eight  even  parts,  peel  each  section  down  half  way,  and  tuck 
the  point  in  next  to  the  orange. 

CRYSTALLIZED  FRUIT. 

Pick  out  the  finest  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  leave  on  their  stalks,  beat  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  lay  the  fruit  in  the  beaten  egg  with  the  stalks 
upward,  drain  them  and  beat  the  part  that  drips  off  again;  select  them  out,  one 
by  one,  and  dip  them  into  a  cup  of  finely  powdered  sugar;  cover  a  pan  with  a 
sheet  of  fine  paper,  place  the  fruit  inside  of  it,  and  put  it  in  an  oven  that  is  cool- 
ing; when  the  icing  on  the  fruit  becomes  firm,  pile  them  on  a  dish  and  set  them 
in  a  cool  place.  For  this  purpose,  oranges  or  lemons  should  be  carefully  pared, 
and  aU  the  white  inner  skin  removed  that  is  possible,  to  prevent  bitterness;  then 
cut  either  in  thin  horizontal  slices  if  lemons,  or  in  quarters  if  oranges.  For 
cherries,  strawberries,  currants,  etc.,  choose  the  largest  and  finest,  leaving  stems 
out.  Peaches  should  be  pared  and  cut  in  halves,  and  sweet  juicy  pears  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  way,  or  look  nicely  when  pared,  leaving  on  the  stems,  and 
iced.  Pineapples  should  be  cut  in  thin  sUces,  and  these,  again,  divided  into 
quarters. 

PEACHES  AND  CREAM. 

Pare  and  slice  the  peaches  just  before  sending  to  table.  Cover  the  glass  dish 
containing  them  to  exclude  the  air  as  much  as  possible,  as  they  soon  change 


328  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

color.    Do  not  sugar  them  in  the  dish— they  then  become  preserves,  not  fresh 
fruit.    Pass  the  powdered  sugar  and  cream  with  them. 

SNOW  PYRAMID. 

Beat  to  a  stiff  foam  the  whites  of  half  a  dozen  eggs,  add  a  small  teacupful  of 
currant  jelly,  and  whip  all  together  again.  Fill  half  full  of  cream  as  many 
saucers  as  you  have  guests,  dropping  in  the  centre  of  each  saucer  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  the  beaten  eggs  and  jelly  in  the  shape  of  a  pyramid. 

JELLY  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  three  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  pint  bowl  of  wheat  flour 
or  more,  beat  it  Ught;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  beef  fat  in  a  frying  or 
omelet  pan,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  making  it  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  batter  by 
the  large  spoonful,  not  too  close;  when  one  side  is  a  deUcate  brown,  turn  the 
other;  when  done,  take  them  on  to  a  dish  with  a  d'oyley  over  it;  put  a  dessert^ 
spoonful  of  firm  jelly  or  jam  on  each,  and  serve.    A  very  nice  dessert. 

STEWED  APPLES-  No.  i. 
Take  a  dozen  green,  tart  apples,  core  and  slice  them,  put  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  cover  the  sauce-pan  closely,  and  stew  the 
apples  until  they  are  tender  and  clear;  then  take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  deep^ 
dish  and  cover  them;  add  to  the  juice  in  the  sauce-pan  a  cupful  of  loaf  sugar  for- 
every  twelve  (apples,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour,  adding  to  the  syrup  a  pinch  of 
mace  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves  just  ten  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire;, 
pour  scalding  hot  over  the  apple,  and  set  them  in  a  cold  place;  eat  ice  cold  with 
cream  or  boiled  custard. 

STEWED  APPLES.  No.  2. 
Apples  cooked  in  the  following  way  look  very  pretty  on  a  tea-table  and  are 
appreciated  by  the  palate.  Select  firm  roxmd  greenings,  pare  neatly  and  cut  in 
halves;  place  in  a  shallow  stew-pan  with  sufiicient  boiling  water  to  cover  them 
and  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  six  apples.  Each  half  should  cook  on  the  bottom  of 
the  pan  and  be  removed  from  the  others  so  as  not  to  injure  its  shape.  Stew 
slowly  until  the  pieces  are  very  tender,  remove  to  a  glass  dish  carefully,  boil  the 
syrup  a  half  hour  longer,  pour  it  over  the  apples  and  eat  cold.  A  few  pieces  of 
lemon  boiled  in  the  syrup  adds  to  the  flavor. 

BAKED  PEARS. 
Pare  and  core  the  pears,  without  dividing;  place  them  in  a  pan,  and  fill  up 
the  orifice  with  brown  sugar;  add  a  Uttle  water,  and  let  them  bake  until  per-- 
fectly  tender.    Nice  with  sweet  cream  or  boiled  custard. 


CUSTARD Sy  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  329 

STEWED  PEARS- 
Stewed  pears  with  a  thick  syrup  make  a  fine  dessert  dish  accompanied  with 

cake. 

Peel  and  cut  them  in  halves,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  scoop  out  the  cores. 
Put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  placing  them  close  together,  with  the  stems  upper- 
most. Pour  over  sufficient  water,  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  some 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  the  stew-pan  closely, 
to  stew  gently  till  the  fruit  is  done,  which  will  depend  on  the  quality  of  the 
fruit.  Then  take  out  the  fruit  carefully,  and  arrange  it  on  a  dish  for  serving. 
Boil  down  the  syrup  until  quite  thick;  strain  it  and  allow  it  to  cool  enough  to 
set  it;  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

The  juice  could  be  colored  by  a  few  drops  of  hquid  cochineal,  or  a  few  slices 
of  beets,  while  boiling.  A  teaspoonful  of  brandy  adds  much  to  the  flavor. 
Serve  with  cream  or  boiled  custard. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Take  ripe  quinces,  pare  and  quarter  them,  cut  out  the  seeds;  then  stew  them 
in  clear  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them;  put  into  a  baking  dish  with  half  a 
cupful  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  eight  quinces;  pour  over  them  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  the  oven  one  hour;  then  take  out 
the  quinces  and  put  them  into  a  covered  dish;  return  the  syrup  to  the  sauce-pan 
and  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  pour  over  the  quinces,  and  set  them  away  to  cool. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL. 

Stew  a  quart  of  ripe  gooseberries  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  when 
soft,  rub  them  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  skins  and  seeds;  while  hot  stir 
into  them  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  add  that;  whip  all  together  until  hght.  Fill  a  large 
glass  fruit  dish,  and  spread  on  the  top  of  the  beaten  whites  mixed  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Apples  or  any  tart  fruit  is  nice  made  in  this  manner. 

MERINGUES  OR  KISSES. 

A  coffee-cupful  of  fine,  white  sugar,  the  whites  of  six  eggs;  whisk  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon  stir  in  quickly  the  pounded 
sugar;  and  have  some  boards  put  in  the  oven  thick  enough  to  prevent  the  bottom 
of  the  meringues  from  acquiring  too  much  color.  Cut  some  strips  of  paper 
about  two  inches  wide;  place  this  paper  on  the  board  and  drop  a  tablespoonful 
at  a  time  of  the  mixture  on  the  paper,  taking  care  to  let  aU  the  meringues  be  the 


330  CUSTARJDS^  CREAMS  AND  DESSEJiTS. 

same  size.  In  dropping  it  from  the  spoon,  give  the  mixtm^  the  form  of  an 
egg,  and  keep  the  meringues  about  two  inches  apart  from  each  other  on  the 
paper.  Strew  over  them  some  sifted  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
half  an'  hour.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to  color,  remove  them  from  the  oven;  take 
each  shp  of  paper  by  the  two  ends,  and  turn  it  gently  on  the  table,  and,  with  a 
small  spoon  take  out  the  soft  part  of  each  meringue.  Spread  some  dean  paper 
on  the  board,  turn  the  meringues  upside  down,  and  put  them  into  the  oven  to 
harden,  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  When  required  for  table,  fill  them  with 
whipped  cream,  flavored  with  hquor  or  vanilla,  and  sweeten  with  pounded 
sugar.  Join  two  of  the  meringues  together,  and  pile  them  high  in  the  dish.  To 
vary  their  appearance,  finely  chopped  almonds  or  currants  may  be  strewn  over 
them  before  the  sugar  is  sprinkled  over;  and  they  may  be  garnished  with  any 
bright-colored  preserve.  Great  expedition  is  necessary  in  making  this  sweet  dish, 
as,  if  the  meringues  are  not  put  into  the  oven  as  soon  as  the  sugar  and  eggs  aie 
mixed,  the  former  melts,  and  the  mixture  would  run  on  the  paper  instead  of 
keeping  its  egg-shape.  The  sweeter  the  meringues  are  made  the  crisper  will 
they  be;  but  if  there  is  not  sufiicient  sugar  mixed  with  them,  they  will  most 
likely  be  tough.  They  are  sometimes  colored  with  cochineal;  and,  if  kept  well- 
covered  in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  good  for  a  month  or  six  weeks. 

JELLY  KISSES. 

Basses,  to  be  served  for  dessert  at  a  large  dinner,  with  other  suitable  confec- 
tionary, may  be  varied  in  this  way:  Having  made  the  kisses,  heap  them  in  the 
shape  of  half  an  egg,  placed  upon  stiff  letter-paper  lining  the  bottom  of  a  thick 
baking-pan;  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  outside  is  a  little  hardened; 
then  take  one  off  carefully,  take  out  the  soft  inside  with  the  handle  of  a  spoon, 
and  put  it  back  with  the  mixture,  to  make  more;  then  lay  the  shell  down.  Take 
another  and  prepare  it  likewise;  fill  the  shells  with  currant  jelly  or  jam;  join 
two  together,  cementing  them  with  some  of  the  mixture;  so  continue  xmtil  you 
have  enough.  Make  kisses,  cocoanut  drops,  and  such  like,  the  day  before  they 
are  wanted. 

This  recipe  will  make  a  fair-sized  cake-basket  full.  It  adds  much  to  their 
beauty  when  served  up  to  tint  half  of  them  pale  pink,  then  imite  white  and 
pink.     Serve  on  a  high  glass  dish. 

COCOANUT  MACAROONS. 

Make  a  ^^kiss"  mixture,  add  to  it  the  white  meat,  grated,  and  finish  as 
directed  for  "  Kisses." 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  331 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

Half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  a  coffee-cupful  of  white  sugar,  the  whites  of 
two  eggs;  blanch  the  ahnonds  and  pound  them  to  a  paste;  add  to  them  the  sugar 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  ^ggs;  work  the  whole  together  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  then  roll  the  mixture  in  your  hands  in  balls  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg, 
dust  sugar  over  the  top,  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  at  least  an  inch  apart. 
Bake  in  a  cool  oven  a  light  brown. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS. 

Put  three  ounces  of  plain  chocolate  in  a  pan  and  melt  on  a  slow  fire;  then 
work  it  to  a  thick  paste  with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites  of 
three  eggs;  roll  the  mixture  down  to  the  thickness  of  about  one-quarter  of  an 
inch;  coit  it  in  small,  round  pieces  with  a  paste-cutter,  either  plain  or  scalloped: 
butter  a  pan  slightly,  and  dust  it  with  flour  and  sugar  in  equal  quantities;  place 
in  it  the  pieces  of  paste  or  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  hot  but  not  too  quick  oven. 

LEMON  JELLY.     No.  i. 

Wash  and  prepare  four  calf's  feet,  place  them  in  four  quarts  of  water,  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  five  hours.  At  the  expiration  of  this  time  take  them 
out  and  pour  the  liquid  into  a  vessel  to  cool;  there  should  be  nearly  a  quart. 
When  cold,  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  replace  the  jelly  into  the  preserving- 
kettle,  and  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons;  when 
the  sugar  has  dissolved,  beat  two  eggs  with  their  sheUs  in  one  gill  of  water, 
which  pour  into  the  kettle,  and  boil  five  minutes,  or  until  perfectly  dear;  then 
add  one  giU  of  Madeira  wine,  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  into  any  form 
you  hke. 

LEMON  JELLY.    No.  2. 

To  a  package  of  gelatine  add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  the  juice  of  four  lemons 
and  the  rind  of  one;  let  it  stand  one  hour,  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  a 
pinch  of  cinnamon,  three  cups  of  sugar;  let  it  all  come  to  a  bofl;  strain  through 
a  napkin  into  molds;  set  away  to  get  cold.  Nice  poured  over  sUced  bananas  and 
oranges. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  package  of  gelatine,  one  cupful  of  cold  water  soaked  together  two  hours; 
add  to  this  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  the  grated  rind 
of  one.    Now  pour  over  this  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 


332  CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS. 

then  add  a  pint  of  sherry  wine.    Strain  through  a  napkin,  turn  into  molds 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  placed  in  the  ice-box  for  several  hours. 

One  good  way  to  mold  this  jelly  is  to  pour  some  of  it  into  the  mold,  harden 
it  a  httle,  put  in  a  layer  of  strawberries  or  raspberries,  or  any  fresh  fruit  in 
season,  pour  in  jelly  to  set  them;  after  they  have  set,  another  layer  of  jelly,  then 
another  of  berries,  and  so  fill  each  mold,  alternating  with  jelly  and  berries. 

CIDER  JELLY. 

This  can  be  made  the  same,  by  substituting  clear,  sweet  cider  in  place  of  the 
wine. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Orange  jelly  is  a  great  deUcacy,  and  not  expensive.  To  make  a  large  dish, 
get  six  oranges,  two  lemons,  a  two-ounce  package  of  gelatine.  Put  the  gelatine 
to  soak  in  a  pint  of  water,  squeeze  the  orange-juice  into  a  bowl,  also  the  lemon 
juice,  and  grate  one  of  the  lemon  skins  in  with  it.  Put  about  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar  with  the  gelatine,  then  stir  in  the  orange- juice,  and  pour  over  all  three 
pints  of  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  gelatine  is  entirely  dis- 
solved, strain  through  a  napkin  into  molds  or  bowls  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
set  aside  to  harden.  In  three  or  four  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  and  will  last 
several  days. 

VARIEGATED  JELLY. 

After  dividing  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  into  halves,  put  each  half  into  a  bowl 
with  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Put  three-quarters  of  an  oimce  or  six  sheets 
of  pink  gelatine  into  a  third  bowl  containing  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  cold 
water.  Cover  the  bowls  to  keep  out  the  dust,  and  set  them  away  for  two  hom«. 
At  the  end  of  that  time,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  cupfvd  of  sugar,  half  a 
pint  of  wine,  and  the  juice  of  lemon  to  the  pink  gelatine,  and,  after  stirring  till 
the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  strain  the  Uquid  through  a  napkin.  Treat  one  of  the 
other  portions  of  the  gelatine  in  the  same  way.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and,  after  adding  this  mixture  to  the  third 
portion  of  gelatine,  stir  the  new  mixture  into  a  pint  and  a  third  of  boiling  nulk, 
contained  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  on  the  fire  for  three  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Place  in 
a  deep  pan  two  molds,  each  holding  about  three  pints,  and  surround  them  with 
ice  and  water.  Pour  into  these  molds,  in  equal  parts,  the  wine  jelly  which 
was  made  with  the  clear  gelatine,  and  set  it  away  to  harden.  When  it  has 
become  set,  pour  in  the  pink  gelatine,  which  should  have  been  set  away  in  a 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS.  333 

place  not  cold  enough  to  make  it  harden.  After  it  has  been  transferred  and  has 
become  hard^  pour  into  the  molds  the  mixture  of  eggs,  sugar  and  gelatine, 
which  should  be  in  a  liquid  state.  Set  the  molds  in  an  ice-chest  for  three  or  four 
hours.  At  serving  time,  dip  them  into  tepid  water  to  loosen  the  contents,  and 
gently  turn  the  jelly  out  upon  flat  dishes. 

The  clear  jelly  may  be  made  first  and  poured  into  molds,  then  the  pink  jelly, 
and  finally  the  egg  jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Strawberries,  pounded  sugar;  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  half  a  package  of 
Cox's  gelatine. 

Pick  the  strawberries,  put  them  into  a  pan,  squeeze  them  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  sufficient  pounded  sugar  to  sweeten  them  nicely,  and  let  them  remain 
for  one  hour,  that  the  juice  may  be  extracted;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  water  ta 
every  pint  of  juice.  Strain  the  strawberry  juice  and  water  through  a  napkin;: 
measure  it,  and  to  every  pint  allow  half  a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved 
in  a  teacupful  of  water.  Mix  this  with  the  juice;  put  the  jelly  into  a  mold,  and 
set  the  mold  on  ice.  A  Uttle  lemon  juice  added  to  the  strawberry  juice  improves 
the  flavor  of  the  jelly,  if  the  fruit  is  very  ripe;  but  it  must  be  well  strained 
before  it  is  put  vnth  the  other  ingredients,  or  it  will  make  the  jelly  muddy. 
Delicious  and  beautifuL 


S'*^(^, '^^^If -^^ s^p-^ 

ICE-CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  com-starch.  Scald,  but  do  not  boil.  Then  put  the  whites  of  the  two 
eggs  into  a  pint  of  cream;  whip  it.  Mix  the  milk  and  cream,  flavor  and  freeze. 
One  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  is  generally  sufficient. 

The  quantity,  of  course,  can  be  increased  to  any  amount  desired,  so  long  as 
the  relative  proportions  of  the  different  ingredients  are  observed. 

PURE  ICE-CREAM. 

Genuine  ice-cream  is  made  of  the  pure  sweet  cream  in  this  proportion:  Two 
quarts  of  cream,  one  pound  of  sugar;  beat  up,  flavor,  and  freeze. 

For  family  use,  select  one  of  the  new  patent  freezers,  as  being  more  rapid 
and  less  laborious  for  small  quantities  than  the  old  style  turned  entirely  by  hand. 
All  conditions  being  perfect,  those  with  crank  and  revolving  dashers  effect  freez- 
ing in  eight  to  fifteen  minutes. 

FRUIT  ICE-CREAM* 

Ingredients. — ^To  every  pint  of  fruit- juice  allow  one  pint  of  cream;  sugar  to 
taste. 

Let  the  fruit  be  well  ripened;  pick  it  off  the  stalks,  and  put  it  into  a  large 
earthen  pan.  Stir  it  about  with  a  wooden  spoon,  breaking  it  until  it  is  well- 
mashed;  then,  with  the  back  of  the  spoon,  rub  it  through  a  hair-sieve.  Sweeten 
it  nicely  with  pounded  sugar;  whip  the  cream  for  a  few  minutes,  add  it  to  the 
fruit,  and  whisk  the  whole  again  for  another  five  minutes.  Put  the  mixture 
into  the  freezer  and  freeze.  Raspberry,  strawberry,  currant,  and  all  fruit  ice- 
creams, are  made  in  the  same  manner.  A  little  pounded  sugar  sprinkled  over 
the  fruit  before  it  is  mashed  assists  to  extract  the  juice.  In  winter,  when  fresh 
fruit  is  not  obtainable,  a  little  jam  may  be  substituted  for  it;  it  should  be  melted 


ICE-CREAM  AND  ICES.  335 

and  worked  through  a  sieve  before  being  added  to  the  whipped  cream;  and  if 
the  color  should  not  be  good,  a  little  prepared  cochineal  may  be  put  in  to  improve 
its  appearance. 

In  making  berry  flavoring  for  ice-cream,  the  milk  should  never  be  heated; 
the  juice  of  the  berries  added  to  cold  cream,  or  fresh,  rich  milk,  mixed  with  cold 
cream,  the  juice  put  in  just  before  freezing,  or  when  partly  frozen. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM.    No.  i.    (Very  fine.) 

Add  f om*  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  to  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  then  mix  it 
thoroughly  to  a  quart  of  thick,  sweet  cream;  no  flavoring  is  required  but  vamlla. 
Sweeten  with  a  cupful  of  sugar;  beat  again  and  freeze. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM.    No.  2. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  and  cream  them  with  two  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Scald 
a  pint  of  milk  and  turn  on  by  degrees,  mixing  well  with  the  sugar  and  eggs. 
Stir  in  this  half  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate;  return  to  the  fire,  €uid  heat  until  it 
(;hickens,  stirriag  briskly;  take  off,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  thoroughly 
cold,  freeze. 

COCOANUT  ICE-CREAM. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  and  a  half  of 
sugar  and  one  of  prepared  cocoanut,  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  Beat 
together  the  eggs  and  grated  lemon-rind,  and  put  with  the  milk  in  the  double 
boiler.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Add  the  cocoanut  and  put 
away  to  cool.    When  cool,  add  the  sugar,  lemon- juice  and  cream.    Freeze. 

CUSTARD  ICE-CREAM. 

Sweeten  one  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
flavor  to  taste;  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  farina-kettle;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil, 
stir  into  it  a  tablefipoonful  of  com-starch  or  rice  flour  which  has  been  previously 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  milk;  after  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  take  it  off 
the  fire  and  stir  in  very  gradually  six  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  imtil  thick; 
when  quite  cold,  freeze  it  as  ice-cream. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE-CREAM. 

MiT  a  cupful  of  sugar  with  a  quart  of  ripe  strawberries,  let  them  stand  half 
a  day,  then  mash  and  strain  them  through  a  coarse  towel,  then  add  to  the  juice 
a  fuU  cupful  of  sugar,  and  when  dissolved,  beat  in  a  quart  of  fresh,  thick  cream. 
Baspberries,  pineapple  and  other  fruits  made  the  same. 


33^  ICE-CREAM  AND  ICES. 

FRUIT  CREAM. 

Make  a  rich,  boiled  custard;  flavor  with  wine  and  vanilla;  pour  into  a  freezer. 
When  half  frozen,  add  pounded  almonds,  chopped  citron  and  brandy,  peiaches 
or  chopped  raisins.  Have  the  freezer  half  full  of  custard  and  fill  up  with  the 
fruit.  Mix  well,  and  freeze  again.  Almost  any  kind  of  fruits  that  are  pre- 
ferred may  be  substituted  for  the  above. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICE-CREAM. 
Take  two  quarts  of  the  richest  cream,  and  add  to  it  one  pound  of  pulverized 
sugar,  and  four  whole  eggs;  mix  well  together;  place  on  the  fire,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  just  bring  to  boiling  point;  now  remove  immediately  and  continue 
to  stir  until  nearly  cold;  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla;  place 
in  freezer  and  when  half  frozen,  miY  thoroughly  into  it  one  pound  of  preserved 
fruits,  in  equal  parts  of  peaches,  apricots,  gages,  cherries,  pineapples,  etc. ;  all 
of  these  fruits  are  to  be  cut  up  into  small  pieces,  and  mixed  well  with  the  frozen 
cream.  If  you  desire  to  mold  this  ice,  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  carmine,  dissolved 
in  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  with  two  drops  of  spirits  of  ammonia;  mix  in  this 
color,  so  that  it  will  be  streaky,  or  in  veins  like  marble. 

ice-cream  without  a  freezer. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  very  light,  and  add  thereto  four  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
and  stir  well.  Add  to  this,  little  by  little,  one  quart  of  rich  milk  that  has  been 
heated  almost  to  boiling,  beating  all  the  while;  then  put  in  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  boil  the  mixture  in  a  pail  set  inside  another 
containing  hot  water.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  is  as  thick  as  a 
boiled  custard,  stirring  steadily  meanwhile.  Pour  into  a  bowl  to  cool.  When 
quite  cold,  beat  into  it  three  pints  of  rich  sweet  cream  and  five  teaspoonf uls  of 
vanilla,  or  such  other  flavoring  as  you  prefer.  Put  it  into  a  pail  having  a  close- 
fitting  cover,  and  pack  in  pounded  ice  and  salt — roch  salt^  not  the  common  kind, 
— ^about  three-fourths  ice  and  one-fourth  salt.  When  packed,  before  putting 
the  ice  on  top  of  the  cover,  beat  the  custard  as  you  would  batter,  for  five  minutes 
steady;  then  put  on  the  cover  and  put  the  ice  and  salt  over  it,  and  cover  the 
whole  with  a  thick  mat,  blanket  or  carpet,  and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour.  Then 
carefully  uncover  and  scrape  from  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pail  the  thick 
coating  of  frozen  custard,  making  every  particle  dear,  and  beat  again  very 
hard,  until  the  custard  is  a  smooth,  half -congealed  paste.  Do  this  thoroughly. 
Put  on  the  cover,  ice,  salt  and  blanket,  and  leave  it  for  five  or  six  hours,  re- 
plenishing the  ice  and  salt  if  necessary. 

— Omtmon  Sense  in  the  HaueehobL 


ICE-CREAM  AND  ICES.  337 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

One  can  or  twelve  large  peaches,  two  coffee- cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  pint. of 
water,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiflf  froth;  break  the  peaches 
rather  fine  and  stir  all  the  ingredients  together;  freeze  the  whole  into  form. 

Frozen  fruits  of  any  kind  can  be  made  the  same  way;  the  fruit  should  be 
mashed  to  a  smooth  pulp,  but  not  thinned  too  much.  In  freezing,  care  should 
be  taken  to  prevent  its  getting  lumpy . 

FROZEN  FRUITS. 

The  above  recipe,  increasing  the  quantity  of  peaches,  raspberries  or  whatever 
fruit  you  may  use,  and  adding  a  small  amount  of  rich  cream,  make  fine  frozen 
fruits.    In  freezing,  you  must  be  especially  careful  to  prevent  its  getting  lumpy. 

LEMON  ICE. 

The  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  three,  a  large  sweet  orange, 
juice  and  rind;  squeeze  out  all  the  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rind  of  orange  and 
lemons  a  couple  of  hours;  then  squeeze  and  strain  through  a  towel,  add  a  pint 
of  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved,  turn  into  a  freezer, 
then  proceed  as  for  ice-cream,  letting  it  stand  longer,  two  or  three  hours. 

When  fruit  jelh'es  are  used,  gently  heat  the  water  sufficiently  to  melt  them; 
then  cool  and  freeze.  Other  flavors  may  be  made  in  this  manner,  varying  the 
flavoring  to  taste. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Grate  two  pineapples  and  mix  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and  a  pint  of  sugar; 
add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Place  in  a 
freezer  and  freeze. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

Two  quarts  of  raspberries,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  pint  and  a  half  of  water, 
the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine.  Mash  the  berries  and 
sugar  together  and  let  them  stand  two  hours.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water 
to  cover.  Add  one  pint  of  the  water  to  the  berries,  and  strain.  Dissolve  the 
gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  this  to  the  strained  mixture  and 
freeze. 

ORANGE-WATER  ICE. 

Add  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  to  one  gill  of  water;  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes 
and  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  dissolved  and  add  four  ounces  of 

22 


338  ICE-CREAM  AND  ICES. 

powdered  sugar,  the  strained  juice  of  six  oranges,  and  cold  water  enough  to 
make  a  full  quart  in  all.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  pour  into  the  freezing 
can  and  freeze  (see  '^  Lemon  Ice. ") 

ALMOND  ICE. 

Two  pints  of  milk,  eight  ounces  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  orange-flower  water, 
eight  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  four  oimces  of  bitter  almonds;  pound  all  in  ^ 
marble  mortar,  poimng,  in,  from  time  to  time,  a  few  drops  of  water;  when 
thoroughly  pounded  add  the  orange-flower  water  and  half  of  the  milk;  pass: 
this,  tightly  squeezed,  through  a  doth ;  boil  the  rest  of  the  milk  with  the 
cream,  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon;  as  soon  as  it  is  thick 
enon^,  pour  in  the  almond  milk;  give  it  one  boiling,  take  it  off  and  let  it  cool 
in  a  bowl  or  pitcher,  before  pouring  it  into  the  mold  for  freezing. 

CURRANT  ICE. 

A  refreshing  ice  is  made  of  currants  or  raspberries,  or  equal  portions  of  each. 
Squeeze  enough  fruit  in  a  jelly -bag  to  make  a  pint  of  juice;  add  a  pint  each  of 
the  water  and  sugar;  pour  the  whole,  boiling  hot,  on  to  three  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  whip  the  mixture  thoroughly.  When  cool,  freeze  in 
the  usual  manner.    Part  red  raspberry  juice  is  a  much  finer  flavor. 

Any  juicy  fruit  may  be  prepared  in  this  manner. 


It  depends  as  much  upon  the  judgment  of  the  cook  as  on  the  materials  used 
to  make  a  good  pudding.  Everything  should  be  the  best  in  the  way  of  materials, 
and  a  proper  attention  to  the  rules,  with  some  practice,  will  ensure  success. 

Puddings  are  either  boiled,  baked,  or  steamed;  if  boiled,  the  materials  should 
be  well  worked  together,  put  into  a  thick  cloth  bag,  previously  dipped  in  hot 
water,  wringing  it  slightly,  and  dredging  the  inside  thickly  with  flour;  tie  it 
firmly,  allowing  room  for  it  to  swell;  drop  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  with 
a  smaU  plate  or  saucer  in  the  bottom  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  kettle.  It 
should  not  cease  boiling  one  moment  from  the  time  it  is  put  in  until  taken  out, 
and  the  pot  must  be  tightly  covered,  and  the  cover  not  removed  except  when 
necessary  to  add  water  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle  when  the  water  is  getting 
low.  When  done,  dip  inmiediately  in  cold  water  and  turn  out.  This  should  be 
done  just  before  placing  on  the  table. 

Or,  butter  a  tin  pudding-mold  or  an  earthen  bowl;  close  it  tight  so  that  water 
cannot  penetrate;  drop  it  into  boiling  water  and  boil  steadily  the  required  time. 
If  a  bowl  is  used  it  should  be  well  buttered,  and  not  quite  filled  with  the  pud- 
ding, allowing  room  for  it  to  swell;  then  a  cloth  wet  in  hot  water,  slightly 
wringing  it,  then  floured  on  the  inner  side,  and  tied  over  the  bowl,  meeting 
under  the  bottom. 

To  steam  a  pudding,  put  it  into  a  tin  pan  or  earthen  dish;  tie  a  cloth  over  the 
top,  first  dredging  it  in  flour,  and  set  it  into  a  steamer.  Cover  the  steamer 
closely;  allow  a  httle  longer  time  than  you  do  for  boiling. 

Molds  or  basins  for  baking,  steaming  or  boiling  should  be  well  buttered  before 
the  mixture  is  put  into  them.  Allow  a  httle  longer  time  for  steaming  than  for 
boihng. 

Dumphngs  boiled  the  same  way,  put  into  httle  separate  cloths. 

Batter  puddings  shotdd  be  smoothly  mixed  and  free  from  lumps.    To  ensure 


340  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

this,  first  mix  the  flour  with  a  very  small  proportion  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly  beaten  together,  and  added  to  this;  then  add  the 
remainder  of  the  milk  by  degrees,  then  the  seasoning,  then  the  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  last.  Much  success  in  making  this  kind  of  pudding  depends  upon  a  strict 
observance  of  this  rule;  for,  although  the  materials  may  be  good,  if  the  eggs 
are  put  into  the  milk  before  they  are  mixed  with  the  floru*,  there  will  be  a  cus- 
tard at  the  top  and  a  soft  dough  at  the  bottom  of  your  dish. 

All  sweet  puddings  require  a  little  salt  to  prevent  insipidity  and  to  draw  out 
the  flavor  of  the  several  ingredients,  but  a  grain  too  much  will  spoil  any  pudding. 

In  puddings  where  wine,  brandy,  cider,  lemon-juice  or  any  acid  is  used,  it 
should  be  stirred  in  last,  and  gradually,  or  it  is  apt  to  curdle  the  milk  or  eggs. 

In  making  custard  puddings  (puddings  made  with  eggs  and  milk\  the  yolk 
of  the  eggs  and  sugar  should  be  thoroughly  beaten  together  before  any  of  the 
milk  or  seasoning  is  added,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  egg  last. 

In  making  puddings  of  bread,  rice,  sago,  tapioca,  etc.,  the  eggs  should  be 
beaten  very  light,  and  mixed  with  a  portion  of  the  milk,  before  adding  them  to 
the  other  ingredients.  If  the  eggs  are  mixed  with  the  milk,  without  having 
been  thus  beaten,  the  milk  will  be  absorbed  by  the  bread,  rice,  sago,  tapioca, 
etc.,  without  rendering  them  light. 

The  freshness  of  all  pudding  ingredients  is  of  much  importance,  as  one  bad 
article  will  taint  the  whole  mixture. 

When  the  freshness  of  eggs  is  doubtful,  break  each  one  separately  in  a  cup, 
before  mixing  them  all  together.  Should  there  be  a  bad  one  amongst  them,  it 
can  be  thrown  away;  whereas,  if  mixed  with  the  good  ones,  the  entire  quantity 
would  be  spoiled.  The  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  make  the  articles 
they  are  put  into  much  lighter. 

Baisins  and  dried  fruits  for  puddings  shoxild  be  carefully  picked,  and,  in 
many  cases,  stoned.  Currants  should  be  well- washed,  pressed  in  a  cloth,  and 
placed  on  a  dish  before  the  fire  to  get  thoroughly  dry;  they  should  then  be  picked 
carefully  over,  and  every  piece  of  grit  or  stone  removed  from  amongst  them. 
To  plump  them,  some  cooks  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  then  dry  them 
before  the  fire. 

Many  baked-pudding  recipes  are  quite  as  good  boiled.  As  a  safe  rule,  boil 
the  pudding  ttvice  as  long  as  you  would  require  to  bake  it;  and  remember  that  a 
boiling  pudding  should  never  be  touched  after  it  is  once  put  on  the  stove;  a  jar 
of  the  kettle  destroys  the  lightness  of  the  pudding.  If  the  water  boils  down  and 
more  must  be  added,  it  must  be  done  so  carefully  that  the  mold  will  not  hit  the 
side  of  the  kettle,  and  it  must  not  be  allowed  to  stop  boiling  for  an  instant. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  341 

Batter  should  never  stick  to  the  knife  when  it  is  sent  to  the  table;  it  will  do 
this  both  when  a  less  than  sufficient  number  of  eggs  is  mixed  with  it  and  when 
it  is  not  enough  cooked;  about  four  eggs  to  the  half  pound  of  flour  will  make  it 
firm  enough  to  cut  smoothly. 

When  baked  or  boiled  puddings  are  sufficiently  sohd,  turn  them  out  of  the 
dish  they  were  baked  in,  bottom  uppermost,  and  strew  over  them  finely  sifted 
sugar. 

When  pastry  or  baked  puddings  are  not  done  through,  and  yet  the  outsida  is 
sufficiently  brown,  cover  them  over  with  a  piece  of  white  paper  until  thoroughly 
cooked;  this  prevents  them  from  getting  burnt. 

TO  CLEAN  CURRANTS. 

Put  them  in  a  sieve  or  colander,  and  spiinkle  them  thickly  with  flour;  rub 
them  well  until  they  are  separated,  and  the  flour,  grit  and  fine  stems  have  passed 
through  the  strainer.  Place  the  strainer  and  currants  in  a  pan  of  water  and 
wash  thoroughly;  then  lift  the  strainer  and  cmrants  together,  and  change  the 
water  until  it  is  clear.  Dry  the  currants  between  clean  towels.  It  hardens 
them  to  dry  in  an  oven. 

TO  CHOP  SUET. 

Break  or  cut  in  small  pieces,  sprmkle  with  sifted  flour,  and  chop  in  a  cold 
place  to  keep  it  from  becoming  sticky  and  soft. 

TO  STONE  RAISINS. 

Put  them  in  a  dish  and  pour  hailing  water  over  them;  cover  and  let  them 
remain  in  it  ten  minutes;  it  wiU  soften  so  that  by  rubbing  each  raisin  between 
the  thumb  and  finger,  the  seeds  will  come  out  clean;  then  they  are  ready  for 
cutting  or  chopping  if  reqiiired. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  the  same  as  soda  or  baking-powder  biscuit,  only 
adding  a  little  more  shortening.  Take  a  piece  of  dough  out  on  the  molding- 
board,  roll  out  almost  as  thin  as  pie-crust;  then  cut  into  square  pieces  lai^e 
enough  to  cover  an  apple.  Put  into  the  middle  of  each  piece  two  apple  halves 
that  have  been  paired  and  cored;  sprinkle  on  a  spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
gromid  cinnamon,  turn  the  ends  of  the  dough  over  the  apple,  and  lap  them 
tight.  Lay  the  dumplings  in  a  dripping-pan  well  buttered,  the  smooth  side 
upward.  When  the  pans  are  filled,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of 
each,  sprinkle  over  a  large  handful  of  sugar,  turn  in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water. 


342  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thiee-qnarters  of  an  hour.    Baste  with  the 
liquor  once  while  baking.    Serve  with  pudding-sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
The  same  recipe  as  the  above,  with  the  exception  that  they  are  put  into  a 
small  coarse  cloth  well-floured  after  being  dipped  in  hot  water.  Each  doth  to 
be  tied  securely,  but  leaving  room  enough  for  the  dumpling  to  swelL  Put  them 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  sweet 
sauce.    Peaches  and  other  fruits  used  in  the  same  manner. 

BOILED  RICE  DUMPLINGS,  CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice;  drain,  and  mash  it  moderately  fine.  Add  to  it  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  half  a  saltsi)oonful  of  mixed  ground 
spice,  salt  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Moisten  a  trifle  with  a  tablespoonful  or 
two  of  cre€un.  With  floured  hands  shape  the  mixture  into  balls,  and  tie  them 
in  floured  pudding-cloths.  Steam  or  boil  forty  minutes,  and  send  to  table  with 
a  custard  sauce  made  as  foUows: 

Mix  together  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  butter  (slightly 
warmed).  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  gill  of  cream;  mix  and 
pour  the  sauce  in  a  double  sauce-pan;  set  this  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  whisk 
thoroughly  three  minutes.  Set  the  sauce-pan  in  cold  water  and  whisk  until  the 
sauce  is  cooled. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS.     No.  i. 

One  pint  bowl  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  one-half  cupful  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine, 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  separately  and  very  light,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar  sifted  into  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  httle  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wet  it  all  together 
with  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Flour  your  hands  and  make  into  balls. 
Tie  up  in  separate  cloths  that  have  been  wrung  out  in  hot  water,  and  floured 
inside;  leave  room,  when  tying,  for  them  to  swell.  Drop  them  into  hotting 
water  and  boil  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot^  with  wine  sauce,  or 
syrup  and  butter. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS.    No.  2. 

One  cupful  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  grated  English  muffins  or 
bread,  one  cupful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  large  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  together  powder 
and  flour,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  grated  muffins,  sugar,  suet  and  milk;  form  into 
smooth  batter,  which  drop  by  tablespoonfuls  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  three 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  343 

or  four  at  a  fcime;  when  done,  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  milk  they  were 
boiled  in.    A  Danish  dish;  very  good. 

PRESERVE  DUMPLINGS. 

Preserved  peaches,  plums,  quinces,  cherries  or  any  other  sweetmeat;  make  a 
light  crust,  and  roll  a  small  piece  of  moderate  thickness  and  fill  with  the  fruit 
in  quantity  to  make  the  size  of  a  peach  dumpling;  tie  each  one  in  a  dimipling 
cloth,  well  floured  inside,  drop  them  into  hot  water,  and  boil  half  an  homr;  when 
done,  remove  the  doth,  send  to  table  hot,  and  eat  with  cream. 

OXFORD  DUMPLINGS. 

Beat  until  quite  light  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped  suet,  half  a  cupful  of  English  currants,  one 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  in  which  there  has  been  sifted  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder,  a  Uttle  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  lastly,  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs;  flour  your  hands  and  make  it  into  balls  the  size  of  an  ^g; 
boil  in  separate  cloths  one  hour  or  more.    Sei-ve  with  wine  sauce. 

LEMON  DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet, 
half  a  cupful  of  moist  sugar,  a  Uttle  salt,  and  a  small  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add- 
ing  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Moisten  it  all  with  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  strained.  Stir  it  all  well  together, 
and  put  the  mixture  into  small  cups  well  buttered;  tie  them  down  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  flour,  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  them  out  0.1  a  dish, 
strew  sifted  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUPPETS. 

Three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  sufficient  flour  to  thicken  as  waffle- 
batter;  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Fill  teacups  alter- 
nately with  a  layer  of  batter,  and  then  of  apples  chopped  fine.  Steam  one 
hour.  Serve  hot  with  flavored  cream  and  sugar.  You  can  substitute  any  fresh 
fruit  or  jams  your  taste  prefers. 

COMMON  BATTER, 

For  boiled  pudding,  frittei*s,  etc.,  is  made  with  one  cupful  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful  of  flour,  and  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Sift  the  flour,  powder  and  salt  together, 
add  the  melted  butter,  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  milk;  mix  into  a  very 
smooth  batter,  a  Uttle  thicker  than  for  griddle-cakes. 


344  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Tom  boiliiig  water  on  to  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds;  let  it 
remain  until  the  skin  comes  off  easily;  rub  with  a  dry  cloth;  when  dry,  pound 
fine  with  one  large  spoonful  of  rose-water;  beat  six  ^gs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
three  spoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar;  mix  with  one  quart  of  milk,  three  spoonfuls 
of  pounded  crackers,  four  ounces  of  melted  butter,  and  the  same  of  citron  cut 
into  bits;  add  almonds,  stir  all  together,  and  bake  in  a  small  pudding-dish  with 
a  lining  and  rim  of  pastry.  This  pudding  is  best  when  cold.  It  will  bake  in 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

APPLE  PUi>::iNG,  BAKED. 
Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cream;  stir 
into  this  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  weQ  beaten,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  and  half  a  dozen  sound,  green,  tart  apples,  grated.  Now  stir  in  the  four 
beaten  whites  of  the  e^8»  season  with  cinnamon  or  nutm^;  bake.  To  be 
served  cold  with  cream. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Take  three  eggs,  three  apples,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  one 
lemon,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of  ctirrants,  half  a  wine-glassful  of 
wine,  nutm^,  butter  and  sugar  for  sauce.  Pare,  core  and  mince  the  apple  and 
mix  with  the  bread-crumbs,  nutm^  grated,  sugar,  currants,  the  juice  of  the 
lemon,  and  half  the  rind  grated.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  moisten  the  mixture  with 
these  and  beat  all  together,  adding  the  wine  last;  put  the  pudding  in  a  buttered 
mold,  tie  it  down  with  a  cloth;  boil  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve  with  sweet 
sauce. 

BIRDS'  NEST  PUDDING. 

Oore  and  peel  eight  apples,  put  in  a  dish,  fill  the  places  from  which  the  cores 
have  been  taken  with  sugar  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  cover  and  bake.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  light,  add  two  teacupfuls  of  flour,  with  three  even  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  sifted  with  it,  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  pour  over  the  apples,  and 
bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  with  sauce. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.  NO.  i. 

Butter  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  pudding-dish,  then  butter  thin  slices  of 
bread,  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  chopped  apple,  or  any  fruit 
you  prefer  between  each  slice,  until  your  dish  is  full.    Beat  up  two  eggs^  add  a 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  345 

tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour;  stir  with  this  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and  a  little  salt; 
pour  this  over  the  bread,  let  it  stand  one  hour  and  then  bake  slowly,  with  a  cover 
on,  three-quarters  of  an  hoiu*;  then  take  the  cover  off  and  brown.  Serve  with 
wine  and  lemon  sauce. 

Pie-plant,  cut  up  in  small  pieces  with  plenty  of  sugar,  is  fine  made  in  this 
manner. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.  No.  2. 

Place  a  layer  of  stale  bread,  rolled  fine,  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  any  kind  of  fruit;  sprinkle  on  a  little  sugar,  then  another  layer  of 
bread-crumbs  and  of  fruit;  and  so  on  xmtil  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being 
crumbs.  Make  a  custard  as  for  pies,  add  a  pint  of  milk,  and  mix.  Pour  it  over 
the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  bake  until  the  fruit  is  cooked. 

Stale  cake^  crumbed  fine,  in  place  of  bread,  is  an  improvement. 

COLD  BERRY  PUDDING. 

Take  rather  stale  bread— baker's  bread  or  light  home-made— cut  in  thin  slices, 
and  spread  with  butter.  Add  a  very  Uttle  water  and  a  httle  sugar  to  one  quart 
or  more  of  huckleberries  and  blackberries,  or  the  former  alone.  Stew  a  few 
minutes  until  juicy;  put  a  layer  of  buttered  bread  in  your  buttered  pudding- 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  stewed  berries  while  hot,  and  so  on  until  fuU;  lastly,  a  cov- 
ering of  stewed  berries.  It  may  be  improved  with  a  rather  soft  frosting  over 
the  top.    To  be  eaten  cold  with  thick  cream  and  sugar. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Put  one  teacupful  of  tapioca  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt  into  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  where  it  will  be  quite  warm,  but 
not  cook;  peel  six  tart  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  fill  them  with  sugar,  in  which 
is  grated  a  little  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel,  and  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish;  over 
these  pour  the  tapioca,  first  mixing  with  it  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  and 
a  cupful  of  cold  milk,  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  bake  one  hour;  eat  with  sauce. 

When  fresh  fruits  are  in  season,  this  pudding  is  exceedingly  nice,  with  dam- 
sons, plums,  red  currants,  gooseberries,  or  apples;  when  made  with  these,  the 
pudding  must  be  thickly  sprinkled  over  with  sifted  sugar. 

Canned  or  fresh  peaches  may  be  used  in  place  of  apples  in  the  same  manner, 
moistening  the  tapioca  with  the  juice  of  the  canned  peaches  in  place  of  the  cold, 
milk.    Very  nice  when  quite  cool  to  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


346  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

APPLE  AND  BROWN-BREAD  PUDDING. 

Take  a  pint  of  brown  bread-crumbs^  a  pint  bowl  of  chopped  apples,  mix;  add 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped  suet,  a  cupful  of  raisins,  one  egg,  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt.  Mix  with  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  boil  in  buttered  molds  about  two  hours.  Serve  with  sauce  flavored  with 
lemon. 

APPLE-PUFF  PUDDING. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  sprinkle  in  a  little  salt,  stir  in  gradu- 
ally a  pint  of  milk;  when  quite  smooth  add  three  eggs;  butter  a  pie*dish,  pour 
in  the  batter;  take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  apples,  seed  and  cut  in  slices^ 
and  put  in  the  batter;  place  bits  of  butter  over  the  top;  bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour;  when  done,  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  and  serve  hot. 

PLAIN  BREAD  PUDDING,  BAKED. 

Break  up  about  a  pint  of  stale  bread  after  cutting  off  the  crust ;  pomr  over  it 
a  quart  of  boiUng  milk;  add  to  this  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg; 
cover  the  dish  tight  and  let  it  stand  until  cool;  then  with  a  spoon  mash  it  until 
fine,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  one  of  nutmeg  grated,  half  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda^  dissolved  in  a  httle  hot  water. 
Beat  up  four  eggs  very  light,  and  add  last.  Turn  all  into  a  well-buttered 
pudding-dish,  and  bake  three-quai*ters  of  an  hour.  Serve  it  warm  with  hard 
sauce. 

This  recipe  may  be  steamed  or  .boiled;  very  nice  either  way. 

SUPERIOR  BREAD  PUDDINGS. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  white  sugar;  two  cupfuls  of  fine,  dry  bread- 
crumbs, five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  vanilla,  rose-water  or  lemon 
flavoring,  one  quart  of  fresh,  rich  milk,  and  half  a  cupful  of  jelly  or  jam.  Eub 
the  butter  into  a  cupful  of  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  very  light,  and  stir  these 
together  to  a  cream.  The  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk  come  next,  then  the 
flavoring.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish— a  large  one,  and  but  two-thirds 
full— until  the  custard  is  "  set."  Draw  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  spread  over 
with  jam  or  other  nice  fruit  conserve.  Cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whipped  whites  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Shut  the  oven,  and  bake  until  the 
meringue  begins  to  color.  Eat  cold,  with  cream.  In  strawberry  season,  substi- 
tute a  pint  of  fresh  fruit  for  preserves.  It  is  then  delicious.  Serve  with  any 
warm  sauce. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  347 

BOILED  BREAD  PUDDING. 

To  one  quart  of  bread-crumbs,  soaked  soft  in  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  add  one  cup- 
ful of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  fruit,  or  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoonf ul  each  of 
spices,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
about  a  cupful  of  flour  sifted;  boil  or  steam  three  hours.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

ALMOND  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

Put  two  quarts  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler;  stir  into  it  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  that  has  been  stirred  to  a  cream,  with  a  Uttle  of  the  milk. 
When  it  boils,  care  should  be  taken  that  it  does  not  bum;  when  cooked,  take 
from  the  fire,  and  let  it  cool.  Take  the  skins  off  from  two  poimds  of  sweet 
almonds,  pound  them  fine,  stir  them  into  the  milk;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  flavoring,  and  six  well-beaten  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately.  Put  bits  of  butter  over  the  top.  Bake  one  hour.  A  gill  of  brandy 
or  wine  improves  it. 

ALMOND  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Steep  four  oimces  of  crumbs  of  bread,  sHced,  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of 
cream,  or  grate  the  bread;  then  beat  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  very 
fine  till  they  become  a  paste,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water; 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four;  mix  all  well  together; 
put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  in  three  or  four  ounces  of 
melted  butter;  put  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  until  it  is  thick;  lay  a  sheet  of  paper 
at  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  and  pour  in  the  ingredients;  bake  half  an  hour.  Use 
the  remaining  four  whites  of  egg  for  a  meringue  for  the  top. 

BATTER  PUDDING,  BAKED. 

Four  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  floinr. 
Put  the  whites  of  the  e^s  in  last.  Bake  in  an  earthen  dish  that  can  be  set  on 
the  table.    Bake  forty-five  minutes;  serve  with  rich  sauce. 

BOILED  BATTER  PUDDING. 
Sift  together  a  pint  of  fiour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  into  a  deep 
dish,  sprinkle  in  a  Uttle  salt,  adding  also  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Stir 
into  this  gradually  a  pint  of  milk;  when  quite  smooth,  add  four  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately.  Now  add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff 
batter.    If  liked,  any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  stirred  into  this;  a  pint  of  berries  or 


348  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

sliced  fruit.    Boil  two  hours.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  wine  sauce,  or  anj 
sweet  sauce. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING.   No.  i. 

Take  five  tablespoonf  uls  out  of  a  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  mix  them 
with  two  large  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour.  Set  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boil,  flavoring 
it  with  bitter  almonds  broken  up.  When  it  has  boiled  hard,  take  it  off,  strain 
it,  and  stir  it  in  the  cold  milk  and  flour.  Set  it  away  to  cool,  and  beat  well 
eight  yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs;  add  them  to  the  milk,  and  stir  in,  at  the 
last,  a  glass  of  brandy  or  white  wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  nutmeg,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Butter  a  large  bowl  or  mold;  pom:  in  the  mixture;  tie  a 
cloth  tightly  over  it;  put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  two  hours^  re- 
plenishing the  pot  with  hot  water  from  a  tea-kettle.  When  the  pudding  is  done, 
let  it  get  cool  before  you  turn  it  out.  Eat  it  with  butter  and  sugar  stirred  together 
to  a  cream  and  flavored  with  lemqn- juice  or  orange. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Pour  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  deep  pan,  and  let  the  pan  stand  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  while  you  beat  to  a  cream  eight  eggs  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
fine  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour;  then  stir  the  eggs  and  sugar  into  the  milk, 
and  continue  stirring  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  remove  the  pan  from  the 
boiling  water,  scrape  down  the  sides,  stir  to  the  bottom  until  it  begins  to  cool, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  peach  water,  or  any  other  flavor  you  may  prefer,  pour 
into  httle  cups,  and  when  cold,  serve. 

custard'  puddings. 

The  recipe  for  *' Common  Cfustard,"  with  the  addition  of  chocolate,  grated 
banana,  or  pineapple  or  cocoanut,  makes  successfully  those  different  kinds  of 
puddings. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PUDDINGS. 

Put  a  quart  of  pared  and  quartered  apples  into  a  stew-pan,  with  half  a  cupful 
of  water,  and  cook  them  until  they  are  soft.  Remove  from  the  flre,  and  add 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  the  grated  rind  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Have  ready  mixed  two  cupfuls  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  add  this  also  to  the  apple  mixture,  after  which,  stir 
in  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Turn  all  into  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or  hard 
sweet  sauce. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  349 

CREAM  PUDDING. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  well,  and  stir  them  into  one  pint  of 
flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  a  bit  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  sugar;  just  before  baking, 
stir  in  one  pint  of  cream,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish.    Eat  with  cream. 

CREAM  MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

Stir  to  a  cream  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  with  the  white  of  one  egg  and  the  yolks 
of  four.  Add  one  quart  of  milk  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put  four  tablespoonf uls 
of  flour  and  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt  into  another  dish,^  and  pour  half  a  cupful  of  the 
milk  and  egg  mixture  upon  them,  and  beat  very  smooth,  gradually  adding 
the  rest  of  the  milk  and  egg  mixture.  Turn  this  all  into  a  double  boiler  sur- 
rounded by  boiling  water;  stir  this  until  smooth  and  thick  Uke  cream,  or  about 
fifteen  minutes;  then  add  vanilla  or  other  extract.  Rub  all  through  a  strainer 
into  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish.  Now  beat  the  remaining  three  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  gradually  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  spread  roughly  over  the  pudding.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderaie 
oven.    Serve  cold. 

CORN-STARCH  PUDDING. 

Reserve  half  a  cupful  of  milk  from  a  quart,  and  put  the  remainder  on  the 
stove  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  four  lai^e  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  and  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  with  the  half -cupful  of  milk;  then  stir  the  mixture  into  the 
boiling  milk,  and  beat  well  for  two  minutes.  Cover  the  boiler  and  cook  the 
pudding  for  twelve  minutes;  then  pour  it  into  a  pudding-dish.,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  for  half  an  horn:.  When  the  time  for  serving  comes,  make  a  sauce  in  this 
manner:  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  and  beat  into  this  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  As  soon  as  the  sugar  has  been  well  mixed 
with  the  whites,  add  half  of  a  lai-ge  tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  or  any  other  bright 
jelly,  or  any  kind  of  preserved  fruit  may  be  used.  K  you  pilfer,  serve  sugar 
and  cream  with  the  pudding  instead  of  a  sauce. 

COLD  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Throw  into  a  pint  of  new  milk  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  heat  it  slowly  by  the 
side  of  the  fire,  and  keep  at  the  boiling  point  imtil  strongly  fiavored.  Sprinkle 
in  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  the  finest  isinglass  or 
gelatine.  When  dissolved,  strain  through  muslin  into  a  clean  sauce-pan  with 
five  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  rich  cream.    Give  the  whole 


350  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

one  boil,  stir  it  briskly  and  add  by  degrees  the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs. 
Next  thicken  the  mixture  as  a  custard  over  a  slow  fire,  taking  care  not  to  keep 
it  over  the  fire  a  moment  longer  than  necessary;  pour  it  into  a  basin  and  fiavor 
with  orange-flower  water  or  vanilla.  Stir  until  nearly  cold,  then  add  two  ounces 
of  citron  cut  in  thin  strips  and  two  ounces  of  candied  cherries.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  mold.    For  sauce  use  any  kind  of  fruit  syrup. 

CUBAN  PUDDING. 

Crumble  a  pound  of  sponge  cakes,  an  equal  quantity,  or  less  if  preferred,  of 
cocoanut,  grated  in  a  basin.  Pour  over  two  pints  of  rich  cream  previously 
sweetened  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  and  brought  to  the  boiling 
point.  Cover  the  basin,  and  when  the  cream  is  soaked  up  stir  in  it  eight  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Butter  a  mold,  arrange  four  or  five  ounces  of  preserved  ginger 
around  it,  pour  in  the  pudding  carefully,  and  tie  it  down  with  a  doth.  Steam 
or  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  serve  with  the  syrup  from  the  ginger, 
which  should  be  warmed  and  poured  over  the  pudding. 

CRACKER  PUDDING 

Of  raspberries,  may  be  made  of  one  large  teacupful  of  cracker-crumbs,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  spoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one 
whole  egg  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  adding  a  httle  pinch 
of  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  spread  over  the  top,  while  hot, 
a  pint  of  weU-sugared  raspberries.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  very 
stiff,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  Uttle  lemon  extract,  or  whatever  one 
prefers.  Spread  this  over  the  berries,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve  with 
fruit  sauce  made  of  raspberries. 

BAKED  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Take  a  large  cupful  of  yellow  meal,  and  a  teacupful  of  cooking  molasses,  and 
beat  them  well  together;  then  add  to  them  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  some  salt 
and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  powdered  ginger,  add  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped 
suet  or  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Butter  a  brown  earthen  pan,  and 
turn  the  pudding  in,  let  it  stand  until  it  thickens;  then  as  you  put  it  into  the 
oven,  turn  over  it  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  but  do  not  stir  it,  as  this  makes  the  jeUy. 
Bake  three  hours.    Serve  warm  with  hard  sauce- 

This  recipe  has  been  handed  down  from  mother  to  daughter  for  many  years 
back  in  a  New  England  family. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  35 1 

BAKED  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING,  WITH  EGGS. 

One  small  cupfiil  of  Indian  meaJ,  one-half  cupful  of  wheat  flour  stirred  together 
with  cold  milk.  Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  and  stir  the  mixture  in  it  arid  cook  until 
thick;  then  thin  with  cold  milk  to  the  consistency  of  batter,  not  very  thick;  add 
half  a  cupful  of  ^ugar,  half  a. cupful  of  molasses,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  a  Uttle  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  mixed  cinnamon  and  nutm^,  two- 
thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  added  just  before  putting  it  into  the  oven.  Bake 
two  hours.  After  baking  it  half  an  hour,  stir  it  up  thoroughly,  then  finish 
baking. 

Serve  it  up  hot,  eat  it  with  wine  sauce,  or  with  butter  and  syrup. 

BOILED  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING. 

Warm  a  pint  of  molasses  and  a  pint  of  milk,  stir  well  together;  beat  four  eggs, 
and  stir  gradually  into  molasses  and  milk;  add  a  cupful  of  beef  suet  chopped 
fine,  or  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  corn-meal  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  cinnamon,  the  same  of  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  of  salt,  and  stir  all  together  thoroughly;  dip  a  cloth  into  boiling 
Water,  shake,  flour  a  little,  turn  in  the  mixtiu'e,  tie  up,  leaving  room  for  the 
pudding  to  swell,  and  boil  three  hours;  sei've  hot  with  sauce  made  of  drawn 
butter,  wine  and  nutmeg. 

BOILED  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

To  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Indian  meal,  well- 
Rifted,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  dissolved  soda;  tie  it  up  tight  in  a  cloth,*aUowing  room  for 
it  to  swell,  and  boil  four  hours.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

CORN-MEAL  PUFFS. 

Into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  stir  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg;  let  the  whole 
boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  its  adhering  to  the  sauce- pan; 
then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  become  cool  stir  into  it  six  eggs, 
beaten  as  light  as  possible;  mix  weU,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  buttered  teacups, 
nearly  filling  them;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an  hour;  serve  with  lemon 
sauce. 

DELICATE  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk^  two  heapiug  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  four  of  sugar, 
one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Boil  milk  in  double  boile?\ 


352  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

sprinkle  the  meal  into  it,  stirring  all  the  while;  cook  twelve  minutes,,  stirring 
often.  Beat  together  the  ^ggs,  salt,  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 
Stir  the  butter  into  the  meal  and  milk.  Pour  this  gradually  over  the  egg  mix- 
tm-e.    Bake  slowly  one  hour.    Serve  with  sauoe  of  heated  syrup  and  butter. 

— Maria  Parloa. 
COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  heaping  pint  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  teaqMX)n- 
fuls  of  cream  of  tartar  rubbed  dry  in  the  flour;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven;  cut  in  slices  and  serve  warm  with  wine  or  brandy  sauce,  or 
sweet  sugar  sauce. 

FRENCH  COCOANUT  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  the  yolks  of  four  ^gs, 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt;  put  part  of  the  milk,  salt  and  sugar  on 
the  stove  and  let  it  boil;  dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  the  rest  of  the  milk;  stir  into 
the  milk,  and  while  boiling  add  the  yolks  and  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate. 
Flavor  with  vaniUa. 

Frosting. — The  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar;  flavor  with  lemon;  spread  it  on  the  pudding,  and  put  it  into  the  oven  to 
brown,  saving  a  little  of  the  frosting  to  moisten  the  top;  then  put  on  grated 
cocoanut  to  give  it  the  appearance  of  snow-flake. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut.  Then  mix  with  it  half  a  cupful  of  stale 
sponge-cake,  crumbled  fine.  Stir  together  imtil  very  light  half  a  cupful  of  butter 
and  one  of  sugar,  add  a  coj^ee-cupful  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Beat  six  eggs  very- 
light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into  the  butter  and  sugar  in  turn,  with  the  grated 
cocoanut.  Having  stirred  the  whole  very  hard,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla; 
stir  again,  put  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  imtil  set,  or  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Three  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  covdd  be  left  out  for  a  meringue  on 
the  top  of  the  pudding.    Most  excellent. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING.    No.  3- 
A  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  put  into  the  recipes  of  ^^  Cracker  Pudding"  and 
*^  Bread  Pudding,"  makes  good  cocoanut  pudding. 

CHERRY  PUDDING,  BOILED  OR  STEAMED. 

Two  eggs,  well-beaten,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  sifted  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter,  two  large  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  as 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  353 

many  cherries  as  can  be  stirred  in.    Boil  one  hour,  or  steam,  and  serve  with 
liquid  sauce. 

Cranberries,  currants,  peaches,  cherries,  or  any  tart  fruit  is  nice  used  with 
this  recipe.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

CHERRY  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Make  a  crust  or  paste  of  two  cupfuls  of  floui',  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  wet  up  with  milk  or  water;  roll  out  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  butter  a  large  common  bowl  and  line  it  with  this  paste,  leaving  it 
large  enough  to  lap  over  the  top;  fill  it  with  stoned  cherries  and  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar.  Gather  the  paste  closely  over  the  top,  Sprinkle  a  httle  with  dry  flour, 
and  cover  the  whole  with  a  linen  cloth,  fastening  it  with  a  string.  Put  it  into  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  an  hour  and  a  half.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.  (The  Genuine.) 
Soak  one  poimd  of  stale  bread  in  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  let  it  stand  and  cool. 
When  cold,  add  to  it  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten 
to  a  cream,  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  floured,  one  pound  of  Zante  cur- 
rants, washed  and  floured,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  in  slips  and  dredged 
with  flour,  one  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  finely,  and  salted,  one  glass  of  wine, 
one  glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mace,  cinnamon  and 
cloves  mixed;  beat  the  whole  well  together,  and,  as  the  last  thing,  add  the 
whites  of  the  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  pour  into  a  cloth,  previously 
scalded  and  dredged  with  flour,  tie  the  cloth  firmly,  leaving  room  for  the  pud- 
^ng  to  swell,  and  boil  si  x  hours.  Serve  with  wine  or  brandy  sauce. 
It  is  best  to  prepare  the  ingredients  the  day  before,  and  cover  closely. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM-PUDDING.  (By  Measure.) 
One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  two  cupfuls  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  one 
heaping  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  one  cupful  of  weU- washed 
currants,  one  cupful  of  chopped  blanched  almonds,  half  a  cupful  of  citron,  sliced 
thin,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  half  a  grated  nut- 
meg, and  four  well-beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  warm  water.  Flour  the  fruit  thoroughly  from  a  pint  of  flour;  then 
mix  the  remainder  as  follows:  In  a  large  bowl  put  the  well-beaten  eggs,  sugar, 
apices,  and  salt  in  one  cupful  of  milk.  Stir  in  the  fruit,  chopped  nuts,  bread- 
<;rumbs,  and  suet,  one  after  the  other,  until  aU  are  used,  putting  in  the  dissolved 
soda  last,  and  adding  enough  flour  to  make  the  fruit  stick  together,  which  will 
take  all  the  pint.  Boil  or  steam  four  hours.  Serve  with  wine  or  brandy  or  any 
well-flavored  sauce. 

23 


354  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS, 

BAKED  PLUM-PUDDING. 

It  will  be  found  best  to  prepare  the  iDgredients  the  day  before  and  cover 
closely.  Grate  a  stale  loaf  of  bread,  or  enough  for  a  pint  of  crumbs;  boil  one 
quart  of  milk,  and  turn  boiling  hot  over  the  grated  bread;  cover  and  let  steep 
an  hour;  in  the  meantime  pick,  soak  and  dry  half  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a 
pound  of  raisins,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in  large  slips,  one  nutmeg,  one 
tablespoonful  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  mixed,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  with  half  of  a 
cupful  of  butter;  when  the  bread  is  ready,  mix  with  it  the  butter,  sugar,  spice 
and  citron,  adding  a  glassful  of  white  wine;  beat  eight  eggs  very  Ught,  and 
when  the  mixture  is  quite  cold,  stir  them  gradually  in;  then  add  by  degrees  the 
raisins  and  currants  dredged  with  flour;  stir  the  whole  very  hard;  put  it  into 
a  buttered  dish;  bake  two  hours,  send  to  the  table  warm.  Eat  with  wine  sauce^ 
or  wine  and  sugar.    Most  excellent. 

PLiJM.PUDDING,  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

This  delicious,  light  pudding  is  made  by  stirring  thoroughly  together  the 
following  ingredients:  One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  two  cupfuls  of 
fine  bread-crumbs,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  of  chopped  raisins,  one  of  well- 
washed  currants,  one  spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
allspice,  and  carbonate  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Put  into  a  well-greased  pudding  mold,  or  a  three-quart  pail,  and 
cover  closely.  Set  this  pail  into  a  larger  kettle,  close  covered,  and  half  full  of 
boiling  water,  adding  boiling  water  as  it  boils  away.  Steam  not  less  than  four 
hours.  This  pudding  is  sure  to  be  a  success,  and  is  quite  rich  for  one  containing 
neither  eggs  nor  butter.  One-half  of  the  above  amount  is  more  than  eight 
persons  would  be  able  to  eat,  but  it  is  equally  good  some  days  later,  steamed 
again  for  an  hour,  if  kept  closely  covered  meantime.  Serve  with  wine  sauce  or 
common  sweet  sauce. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

Butter  weU  the  inside  of  a  pudding-mold.    Have  ready  a  cupful  of  chopped 

citron,  raisins  and  currants.    Sprinkle  some  of  this  fruit  on  the  bottom  of  the 

mold,  then  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake;  shake  over  this  some  spices,  cinnamon, 

cloves  and  nutmeg,  then  fruit  again  and  cake,  imtil  the  mold  is  nearly  full. 

Make  a  custard  of  a  quart  of  milk,  f o\ir  ^ggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoonf uls 

of  melted  butter;  pour  this  over  the  cake,  without  cooking  it;  let  it  stand  and 

soak  one  hour;  then  steam  one  hour  and  a  half.    Serve  with  wine  sauce  or  a 

custard.    Seasoned  with  wine. 

— Manhattan  Be<zch  HoteiL 


"W— ■!" 


D  VMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  355 

BAKED  CRANBERRY  PUDDING. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  a  pint  of  bread-crumbs;  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  stir  in.  When  the  bread  is  softened,  add  two  eggs  and  beat  thoroughly  with 
the  bread.  Then  put  in  a  pint  of  the  stewed  fruit  and  sweeten  to  your  taste. 
Fresh  fruit  of  many  kinds  can  be  used  instead  of  cranberries.  Slices  of  peaches 
put  in  layers  are  delicious.    Serve  with  sweet  sugar  sauce. 

ORANGE  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

One  pint  of  milk;  the  juice  of  six  oranges  and  the  rind  of  three,  eight  eggs; 

half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 

of  ground  rice,  paste  to  line  the  pudding-dish.    Mix  the  ground  rice  with  a  little 

of  the  cold  milk.    Put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  and  when 

it  boils  stir  in  the  mixed  rice.    Stir  for  five  minutes;  then  add  the  butter,  and 

set  away  to  cool.    Beat  together  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  whites 

of  four.     Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges  into  this.    Stir  all 

into  the  cooked  mixture.    Have  a  pudding-dish  holding  about  three  quarts  lined 

with  paste.    Pour  the  preparation  into  this,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 

forty  minutes.    Beat  the  remaining  four  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiflf  froth,  and 

gradually  beat  in  the  powdered  sugar.    Cover  the  pudding  with  this.    Betiun 

to  the  oven  and  cook  ten  minutes,  leaving  the  door  open.    Set  away  to  cool.    It 

must  be  ice  cold  when  served. 

— Maria  Parloa. 

ORANGE  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Five  sweet  oranges,  one  coffee-cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Peel  and  cut  the  oranges 
into  thin  slices,  taking  out  the  seeds;  pour  over  them  the  sugar  and  let  them 
stand  while  you  make  the  rest.  Now  set  the  TnilTr  in  a  suitable  dish  into  another 
of  boiling  water,  let  the  milk  get  boiling  hot,  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a 
nutmeg,  the  corn-starch  made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  a  httle  flavoring.  Stir  it  all  well  together  until  it 
is  smooth  and  cooked.  Set  it  off  and  pour  it  over  the  oranges.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stifl?  froth,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread  over  tha  top  for  frost- 
ing. Set  into  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  Eat  cold.  Berries,  peachea 
and  other  fruits  may  be  substituted. 

BAKED  LEMON  PUDDING.    (Queen  of  Puddings.) 
Ingredients. — One  quart  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  four  eggB> 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cupful  of 


:356  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

white  sugar,  one  large  lemon— juice  and  grated  rind.  Heat  the  milk  and  pour 
over  the  bread-crumbs,  add  the  butter,  cover  and  let  it  get  soft.  When  cool, 
beat  the  sugar  and  yolks,  and  add  to  the  mixture,  also  the  grated  rind.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  dish  until  firm  and  slightly  brown,  from  a  h£df  to  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  When  done,  draw  it  to  the  door  of  the  oven,  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  Qggs,  whipped  to  a  froth  with  four  table- 
^q)oonfuI8  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  lemon- juice;  put  it  back  in  the  oven  and 
brown  a  light  straw  color.    Eat  warm,  with  lemon  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 
A  smaJU  cupful  of  butter,  the  grated  peel  of  two  laige  lemons,  and  the  juice 
of  one;  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  whites  of  five;  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  white  sugar. 
Beat  all  together,  and,  lining  a  deep  pudding-dish  with  puff  paste,  bake  the 
lemon  pudding  in  it;  while  baking,  beat  the  whites  of  the  remaining  five  ^gs 
i;o  a  stiff  froth,  whip  in  fine  white  sugar  to  taste,  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding 
(when  baked)  with  the  meringue,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  moment  to 
brown;  eat  cold,  it  requires  no  sauce. 

BOILED  LEMON  PUDDING. 

Half  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one  lemon,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  of  flour,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt  and  two  ^;gs,  milk.  First  mix 
the  suet,  bread-crumbs,  sugar  and  flour  well  together,  adding  the  lemon-peel, 
which  should  be  the  yellow  grated  from  the  outside,  and  the  juice,  which  should 
be  strained.  When  these  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  moisten  with  the  ^gs 
and  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  pudding  of  the  consistency  of  thick  batter;  put 
it  into  a  well-buttered  mold,  and  boil  for  three  and  a  half  hoiurs;  turn  it  out, 
fitrew  sifted  sugar  over  and  serve  warm  with  lemon  sauce,  or  not,  at  pleasure. 

LEMON  PUDDING,  COLD. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two 
'tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons.  Wet  the  corn-starch  in  some  of  the  milk, 
then  stir  it  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  which  should  be  boiling  on  the  stove, 
stirring  constantly  and  briskly  for  five  minutes.  Take  it  from  the  stove,  stir  in 
the  butter  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  then  stir  theaoi 
thoroughly  into  the  milk  and  corn-starch.  Now  stir  in  the  lemon-juice  and 
grated  rind,  doing  it  very  gradually,  making  it  very  smooth.  Bake  in  a  well- 
buttered  dish.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Oranges  may  be  used  in  place  of  lemons. 
This  also  may  be  turned  while  hot  into  several  small  cups  or  forms  previously 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  357 

dipped  in  cold  water,  place  them  aside;  in  one  hour  they  will  be  fit  to  turn  out. 
Seire  with  cream  and  sugar.    Should  be  boiled  all  together  not  baked. 

ROYAL  SAGO  PUDDING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sago,  washed  and  put  into  one  quart  of  milk; 
put  it  into  a  sauce-pan,  let  it  stand  in  boiling  water  on  the  stove  or  range  until 
the  sago  has  well-swelled.  While  hot,  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
with  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  and  flavoring.  When  cool,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  put  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour;  then  remove  it  from  the  oven  and  place  it  to  cool.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  white  sugar,  till 
they  are  a  mass  of  froth;  spread  the  pudding  with  either  raspberry  or  strawberry 
jam,  and  then  spread  on  the  frosting;  put  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes  to  slightly 
brown.  If  made  in  summer,  be  sure  and  keep  the  whites  of  the  eggs  on  ice 
until  ready  for  use,  and  beat  them  in  the  coolest  place  you  can  find,  as  it  will 
make  a  much  richer  frosting. 

The  small  white  sago  called  pearl  is  the  best.  The  large  brown  kind  has  an 
earthy  taste.    It  should  always  be  kept  in  a  covered  jar  or  box. 

This  pudding,  made  with  tapioca^  is  equally  as  good.  Serve  with  any  sweet 
sauce. 

SAGO  APPLE  PUDDING. 

One  cupf til  of  sago  in  a  quart  of  tepid  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  soaked  for 
one  hour;  six  or  eight  apples,  pared  and  cored,  or  quartered,  and  steamed  tender, 
and  put  in  the  pudding  dish;  boil  and  stir  the  sago  until  clear,  adding  water  to 
make  it  thin,  and  pour  it  over  the  apples;  bake  one  hour.  This  is  good  hot,  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

PLAIN  SAGO  PUDDING. 

Make  the  same  as  "  Tapioca  Pudding,"  substituting  sago  for  tapioca. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

Make  a  corn-starch  pudding  with  a  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  done,  remove  about  half 
and  flavor  to  taste,  and  then  to  that  remaining  in  the  kettle  add  an  egg  beaten 
very  light,  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla  chocolate,  grated  and  dissolved  in 
a  little  milk.  Put  in  a  mold,  alternating  the  dark  and  hght.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  boiled  custard.    This  is  more  of  a  blanc-mange  than  a  pudding. 


358  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

One  quart  of  s^eet  milk^  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate;  scald 
the  milk  and  chocolate  together;  when  cooly  add  the  yolks  of  five  ^gs,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Beat  the  five 
whites  of  ^gs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar,  spread 
evenly  over  the  top  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.    No.  3- 

One  quart  of  milk,  fourteen  even  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread-crumbs, 
twelve  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  six  e^s,  one  tablespoonful  vanilla,  sugar 
to  make  very  sweet.  Se;.  arate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  ^gs,  beat  up  the 
four  yolks  and  two  whole  ^gs  together  very  light  with  the  sugar.  Put  the 
milk  on  the  range,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  perfect  boil  pour  it  over  the  bread 
and  chocolate;  add  the  beaten  e^s  and  sugar  and  vanilla;  be  sure  it  is  sweet 
enough;  pour  into  a  buttered  dish;  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
cold,  and  just  before  it  is  served,  have  the  four  whites  beaten  with  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  use  as  a  meringue. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.    No.  4- 

Half  a  cake  of  chocolate  broken  in  one  quart  of  milk  and  put  on  the  range 
until  it  reaches  boiling  point;  remove  the  mixture  from  the  range;  add  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  sugar;  stir  constantly  until  thick;  remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  pour  the  mixture  in  a  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  a  little  sugar;  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding  with  a  meringue,  and 
set  in  the  oven  until  a  light  brown.    Serve  cold. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  flavoring  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds.  Wash  the 
tapioca,  and  let  it  stew  gently  in  the  milk  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  occasionally  stirring  it;  then  let  it  cool;  mix  with  it  the 
butter,  sugar  and  eggs,  which  should  be  well  beaten,  and  flavor  with  either  of 
the  above  ingredients.  Butter  a  dish,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  an  hour.  K  the  pudding  is  boiled,  add  a  little  more  tapioca,  and  boil  it 
in  a  buttered  basin  one  and  a  half  hours. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  359 

STRAWBERRY  TAPIOCA. 

This  makes  a  most  delightful  dessert.  Soak  over  night  a  large  teacupful  of 
tapioca  in  cold  water;  in  the  morning,  put  half  of  it  in  a  buttered  yellow-ware 
baking-dish,  or  any  suitable  pudding-dish,  Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  t-apioca; 
then  on  this  put  a  quart  of  berries,  sugar,  and  the  rest  of  the  tapioca.  Fill  the 
dish  with  water,  which  should  cover  the  tapioca  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  imtil  it  looks  clear.  Eat  cold,  with  cream  or 
custard.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar  at  table;  and  in  baking,  if  it 
seems  too  dry,  more  water  is  needed. 

A  similar  dish  may  be  made,  using  peaches,  either  fresh  or  canned. 

RASPBERRY  PUDDING. 

One-quarter  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  jam, 
six  cupfuls  of  soft  bread-crumbs,  four  eggs.  Rub  the  butter  and  sugar 
together;  beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately;  mash  the  raspberries, 
add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  all  together  to  a  smooth  paste; 
butter  a  pudding-dish,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  the  crumbs,  then  a 
layer  of  the  mixture;  continue  the  alternate  layers  imtil  the  dish  is  full,  making 
the  last  layer  of  crumbs;  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  baked,  and  serve  with  fruit  sauce  made  with  raspberries.  This 
pudding  may  be  made  the  same  with  other  kinds  of  berries. 

PEAR,  PEACH  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Pare  some  nice,  ripe  pears  (to  weigh  about  three-fourths  of  a  poimd);  put 
them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  few  cloves,  some  lemon  or  orange  peel,  and  stew 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  two  cupfuls  of  water;  put  them  in  your  pudding- 
dish,  and  having  made  the  following  custard,  one  pint  of  cream,  or  milk,  f oiu* 
eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  beat  eggs  and 
sugar  weU,  add  the  flour,  grate  some  nutmeg,  add  the  cream  by  degrees,  stirring 
all  the  time, — pour  this  over  the  pears,  and  bake  in  a  quich  oven.  Apples  or 
peaches  may  be  substituted. 

Serve  cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

FIG  PUDDINGS. 
Half  a  pound  of  good,  dried  figs,  washed,  wiped  and  minced;  two  cupfuls  of 
fine,  dry  bread-crumbs,  three  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  beef  suet,  powdered,  two 
scant  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  Kttle  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  betking-powder,  stirred  in  half  a  cupful  of  sifted  flom*.    Soak  the 


360  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

crumbs  in  milk,  add  the  ^gs,  beaten  light,  with  sugar^  salt,  suet,  flour  and  figs. 
Beat  thiee  minutes^  put  in  buttered  molds  with  tight  top,  set  in  boiling  water 
with  weight  on  cover  to  prevent  mold  from  upsetting,  and  boil  three  hours.  Eat 
hot  with  hard  sauce  or  butter,  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
nutmeg. 

FRUIT  PUDDING,  CORN-MEAL- 

Take  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  stir  in  sifted  Indian  meal  till  the  batter  is  stiff; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved;  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  whortleberries  or  chopped  sweet  apple;  tie 
in  a  cloth  that  has  been  wet,  and  leave  room  for  it  to  swell,  or  put  it  in  a 
pudding- pan,  and  tie  a  cloth  over;  boil  three  hours;  the  water  must  boil  when 
it  is  put  in;  you  can  use  cranberries  and  sweet  sauce. 

APPLE  CORN-MEAL  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  twelve  pippen  apples;  slice  them  very  thin;  then  stir  into  one 
quart  of  new  milk  one  quart  of  sifted  corn-meal;  add  a  little  salt,  then  the 
apples,  four  spoonfuls  of  chopped  suet  and  a  teacupful  of  good  molasses,  adding 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved;  mix  these  well  together;  pomr  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  four  hours;  serve  hot,  with  sugar  and  wine  sauce.  This  is  the 
most  simple,  cheap  and  luxuriant  fruit  pudding  that  can  be  made. 

RHUBARB,  OR  PIE-PLANT  PUDDING. 

Chop  rhubarb  pretty  fine,  put  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  it; 
make  a  batter  of  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
^^  ^ggy  balf  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  enough  flour  to  make  batter  about  as 
thick  as  for  cake.  Spread  it  over  the  rhubarb,  and  bake  till  done.  Turn  out 
on  a  platter  upside  down,  so  that  the  rhubarb  will  be  on  top.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

FRUIT  PUDDINGS. 

Fruit  puddings,  such  as  green  gooseberry,  are  very  nice  made  in  a  basin,  the 
basin  to  be  buttered  and  lined  with  a  paste,  rolling  it  round  to  the  thickness  of 
half  an  inch;  then  get  a  pint  of  gooseberries  and  three  oimces  of  sugar;  after 
having  made  your  paste,  take  half  the  fruit,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  your 
basin;  then  add  half  your  sugar,  then  put  the  remainder  of  the  gooseberries  in, 
and  the  remainder  of  the  sugar;  on  that,  draw  yotu:  paste  to  the  centre,  join  the 
edges  well  together,  put  the  cloth  over  the  whole,  tying  it  at  the  bottom,  and  boil 
in  plenty  of  water.  Fruit  puddings  of  this  kind,  such  as  apples  and  rhubarb,, 
should  be  done  in  this  manner. 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  361 

Boil  for  an  hour,  take  out  of  the  sauce-pan,  untie  the  cloth,  turn  out  on  a 
dish,  or  let  it  remain  in  the  basin,  and  serve  with  sugar  over.  A  thin  cover  of 
the  paste  may  be  rolled  round  and  put  over  the  pudding. 

Ripe  cherries,  currants,  raspberries,  greengages,  pliuns  and  such  like  frait, 
will  not  require  so  much  sugar,  or  so  long  boiling.  These  puddings  are  also  very 
good  steamed. 

SNOW  PUDDING- 

One  half  a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine;  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  and 
add  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar;  when  soft,  add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  then  the  whites  of  four  well-beaten  eggs;  beat  all 
together  imtil  it  is  light  and  frothy,  or  until  the  gelatine  will  not  settle  clear  in 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  after  standing  a  few  minutes;  put  it  on  a  glass  dish. 
Serve  with  a  custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  boil. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  beat  the  eggs  light;  then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again  till  very  Ught; 
mix  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk;  mix  all  together  and  stir  into  one 
quart  of  milk  just  as  it  is  about  to  boil,  having  added  a  little  salt;  stir  it  until  it 
has  thickened  well;  pour  it  into  a  dish  for  the  table  and  place  it  in  the  oven  until 
it  wiU  bear  icing;  place  over  the  top  a  layer  of  canned  peaches  or  other  fruit  (and 
it  improves  it  to  mix  the  syrup  of  the  fruit  with  the  custard  part);  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiflf  froth  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar  to  an  egg;  then 
put  it  into  the  oven  until  it  is  a  light  brown. 

This  is  a  very  delicate  and  dehcious  pudding. 

SAUCER  PUDDINGS. 

Two  tablespoonftils  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar^  three 
eggs,  a  teacupful  of  milk,  butter,  preserve  of  any  kind.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar, 
beat  the  eggs,  add  them  to  the  milk,  and  beat  up  with  the  flour  and  sugar. 
Butter  well  three  saucers,  half  fill  them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  Eemove  them  from  the  saucers  when  cool  enough,  cut  in  half,  and 
spread  a  thin  layer  of  preserve  between  each  half;  close  them  again,  and  serve- 
with  cream. 

NANTUCKET  PUDDING. 
One  quart  of  berries  or  any  small  fruit;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two* 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  simmer  together  and  turn  into  molds;  cover  with  frost-- 


362  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

iDg  as  for  cake,  or  with  whipped  ^gs  and  sugar,  farowniDg  lightly  in  the  oven; 
serve  with  cream* 

TOAST  PUDDING. 
Toast  several  thin  shoes  of  stale  bread,  removing  the  cmst,  butter  th^n  well, 
and  poor  over  them  hot  stewed  fmit  in  alternate  layers.    Serve  warm  with  rich 
hotsanoe. 

PLAIN  RICE  PUDDING. 

Pick  over,  wash  and  boil,  a  teacupfol  of  rice;  when  sofl^  drain  oS  the  water; 
while  warm,  add  to  it  a  tablespoonfol  of  cold  butter.  When  cool,  mix  with  it  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutm^,  and  one  of  ground  cinnamon. 
Beat  up  four  ^gs  v»y  li^t,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  add  them  to  the  rice; 
then  stir  in  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  gradually.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  turn  in 
the  mixture,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  warm,  with  sweet 
wine  sauce. 

It  you  have  cold  cooked  rice,  first  soak  it  in  the  milk,  and  proceed  as  above. 

RICE  PUDDING.    (Fine.) 

Wash  a  teacupful  of  rice,  and  boil  it  in  two  teacupfuls  of  water;  then  add, 
while  the  rice  is  hot,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
five  ^gs  well-beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  nutmeg,  a  Uttle  salt,  one 
glass  of  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  in  halves,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  Zante  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ciiax>n  cut  in  slips,  and  one 
quart  of  cream;  mix  well,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

— Astar  Bouse,  New  York  City. 

RICE  MERINGUE. 

One  cupful  of  carefully  sorted  rice,  boiled  in  water  until  it  is  soft;  when 
done,  drain  it  so  as  to  remove  aU  the  water;  cool  it,  and  add  one  quart  of  new 
milk,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
and  a  httle  nutmeg,  or  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla;  pour  into  a  baking  dish, 
and  bake  about  half  an  hour.  Let  it  get  cold;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla;  drop  or  spread  it  over 
the  pudding,  and  slightly  brown  it  in  the  oven 

RICE  LEMON  PUDDING. 

Put  on  to  boil  one  quart  of  milk,  and  when  it  simmers  stir  in  foiu*  table- 
si)Oonfuls  of  rice  flour  that  has  been  moistened  in  a  little  milk;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  remove  irom  the  fire;  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  when 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  363 

cool,  the  grated  peel,  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  yolks  and  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs;  sweeten  to  taste;  one  wine-glassful  of  wine,  put  in  the  last 
thing,  is  also  an  improvement. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  rice,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  piece 
of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  Uttle  nutmeg  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Put  into  a  deep  pudding-dish,  well-buttered,  set  into  a  moderate 
oven;  stir  it  once  or  twice  until  it  begins  to  cook,  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  about 
two  hours  (until  it  is  the  consistency  of  cream).    Eat  cold. 

FRUIT  RICE  PUDDING. 

One  large  teacupful  of  rice,  a  Uttle  water  to  cook  it  partially;  dry,  line  an 
earthen  basin  with  part  of  it;  fill  nearly  full  with  pared,  cored  and  quartered 
apples,  or  any  fruit  you  choose;  cover  with  the  balance  of  your  rice;  tie  a  cloth 
tightly  over  the  top,  and  steam  one  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  sweet  sauce.  Do 
not  butter  your  dish. 

BOILED  RICE  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

One  cupful  of  cold,  boiled  rice,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  pinch  of 
soda,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  it  all  in  a  bowl,  and  beat  it  up  until  it  is  very 
hght  and  white.  Beat  four  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  put  it  into  the  pudding, 
and  ten  drops  of  essence  of  lemon.  Beat  altogether  for  five  minutes.  Butter  a 
mold,  pour  the  pudding  into  it,  and  boil  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  sweet  fruit 
sauce. 

BOILED  RICE  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

Wash  two  teacupfuls  of  rice,  and  soak  it  in  water  for  half  an  hour;  then  turn 
oflf  the  water,  and  mix  the  rice  with  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  cut  in 
halves;  add  a  httle  salt,  tie  the  whole  in  a  cloth,  leaving  room  for  the  rice  to 
swell  to  twice  its  natural  size,  and  boU  two  hours  in  plenty  of  water;  serve  with 
wine  sauce. 

RICE  SNOW-BALLS. 

Wash  two  teacupfuls  of  rice,  and  boil  it  in  one  teacupful  of  water  and  one  of 
milk,  with  a  Uttle  salt;  if  the  rice  is  not  tender  when  the  milk  and  water  are 
absorbed,  add  a  httle  more  milk  and  water;  when  the  rice  is  tender,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  form  it  into  balls,  or  mold  it  into  a  compact  form  with  httle  cups;  place 
these  rice  balls  around  the  inside  of  a  deep  disli,  fill  the  dish  with  a  rich  soft 
custard,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  The  custard  and  balls  should  be  flavored 
with  the  same. 


364  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Heat  a  Utile  more  than  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  then  stir  in 
gradually  a  little  cold  milk  in  which  you  have  rubbed  smooth  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch;  add  sugar  to  suit  your  taste;  three  well-beaten  ^gB> 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  grated  nutm^.  Let  this  come  to  a 
boil,  then  pour  it  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  first  adding  a  cupful  of  stewed 
prunes,  with  the  stones  taken  out.  Bake  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes, 
according  to  the  state  of  the  oveiL  Serve  with  or  without  sauce.  Alittle  cream 
improves  it  if  poured  over  it  when  placed  in  saucers. 

BLACKBERRY  OR  WHORTLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Three  cupfuls  of  flotir,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  cloves  and  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
a  little  of  the  milk.  Stir  in  a  quart  of  huckleberries,  floured.  Boil  in  a  well- 
buttered  mold  two  hours.    Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

BAKED  HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  ripe,  fresh  huckleberries  or  blueberries;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
mace  or  nutmeg,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  separately;  two  cupfuls  of  sugar;  one 
tablespoonful  of  cold  butter;  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Boll  the  berries  well  in  the  flour,  and  add  them 
last  of  all.  Bake  half  an  hour  and  serve  with  sauce.  There  is  no  more  delicate 
and  delicious  pudding  than  this. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

This  pudding  is  made  without  cooking  and  is  nice  prepared  the  day  before 
useci. 

Stew  currants  or  any  small  fruits,  either  fresh  or  dried,  sweeten  with  sugar 
to  taste,  and  pour  hot  over  thin  slices  of  bread  with  the  crust  cut  off,  placed  in 
a  suitable  dish,  first  a  layer  of  bread,  then  the  hot  stewed  fruit,  then  bread  and 
fruit,  then  bread,  leaving  the  fruit  last.  Put  a  plate  over  the  top  and  when 
cool,  set  it  on  ice.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

This  pudding  is  very  fine  made  with  Boston  crackers  split  open,  and  placed 
in  layers  with  stewed  peaches. 

BOILED  CURRANT  PUDDING. 
Five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  in  which  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  have 
been  sifted.    Oue-half  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet;  half  a  pound  of  currants,  milk, 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  365 

a  pinch  of  salt.  Wash  the  currants,  dry  them  thoroughly,  and  pick  away  any 
stalks  or  grit;  chop  the  suet  finely;  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  moisten 
with  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  pudding  into  astiff  batter;  tie  it  up  in  a  floured 
cloth,  put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  three  hours  and  a  half.  Serve  with 
jelly  sauce  made  very  sweet. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 

A  small  cupful  of  fresh  butter  warmed,  but  not  melted,  one  cupful  of  sifted 
sugar  creamed  with  the  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  grated,  eight  ^gs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  Ught,  and  then  add  the 
nutmeg  and  the  beaten  eggs,  which  should  be  stirred  in  gradually;  flavor  with 
vanilla,  almond,  peach  or  rosewater;  stir  liard;  butter  a  deep  dish,  line  with 
puff -paste,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Then  make  a  meringue  for  the  top,  and 
brown.    Serve  cold. 

SWEET-POTATO  PUDDING. 

To  a  large  sweet  potato,  weighing  two  pounds,  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  gill  of  sweet  cream,  one  gill  of  strong  wine  or  brandy, 
one  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  four  eggs.  Boil  the  potato  until 
thoroughly  done,  mash  up  fine,  and  while  hot  add  the  sugar  and  butter.  Set 
aside  to  cool  while  you  beat  the  eggs  light,  and  add  the  seasoning  last.  Line 
tin  plates  vrith  puff -paste,  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  but 
regularly  heated  oven.  When  the  puddings  are  drawn  from  the  fire,  cover  the 
top  with  thinly  sliced  bits  of  preserved  citron  or  quince  marmalade.  Strew  the 
top  thickly  with  granulated  white  sugar,  and  serve,  with  the  addition  of  a  glass 
of  rich  milk  for  each  person  at  table. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  slices  of  stale  cake 
{sponge  cake  is  best);  pare  and  sUce  thin  a  large  pineapple;  place  in  the  dish  first 
a  layer  of  pineapple,  then  strew  with  sugar,  then  more  pineapple,  and  so  on 
xmtil  all  is  used.  Pour  over  a  small  teacupful  of  water,  and  cover  with  sUces  of 
cake  which  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water;  cover  the  whole  with  a  buttered 
plate,  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours. 

ORANGE  ROLEY  POLEY. 

Make  a  Kght  dough  the  same  as  for  apple  dumplings,  roU  it  out  into  a  narrow 
long  sheet,  about  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  thickly  over  it  peeled  and 
sliced  oranges,  sprinkle  it  plentifully  with  white  sugar;  scatter  over  all  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  two  of  grated  orange-peel,  then  roll  it  up.     Fold  the  edges  well 


366  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

together,  to  keep  the  juices  from  running  out.    Boil  it  in  a  floured  doth  one  hour 
and  a  half.    Serve  it  with  lemon  sauce.  Fine. 

ROLEY  FOLEY  PUDDING.  (Apple.) 
Peel,  core  and  slice  sour  apples;  make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  or  raised  biscuit 
dough  may  be  used  if  rolled  thinner;  roll  not  quite  half  an  inch  thick,  lay  the 
slices  on  the  paste,  roU  up,  tuck  in  the  ends,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  lay  it  in  a 
steamer,  and  steam  hard  for  an  hour  and  three-quarters.  Or,  wrap  it  in  a  pud- 
ding-doth well  floured;  tie  the  ends,  baste  up  the  sides,  plunge  into  boiling 
water,  and  boil  continually  an  hour  and  a  half,  perhaps  more.  Stoned  cherries, 
dried  fruits,  or  any  kind  of  berries,  fresh  or  dried,  may  be  used. 

FRUIT  PUFF  PUDDING. 

Into  one  pint  of  flour  stir  two  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder  and  a  little  salt; 
then  sift  and  stir  the  mixture  into  milk,  until  very  soft.  Place  well-greased 
cups  in  a  steamer,  put  in  each  a  spoonful  of  the  above  batter,  then  add  one  of 
berries  or  steamed  apples,  cover  with  another  spoonful  of  batter,  and  steam 
twenty  minutes.  This  pudding  is  delicious  made  with  strawberries,  and  eaten 
with  a  sauce  made  of  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  butter,  a  cup  of  sugar  beaten  thor- 
oughly with  a  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and  one  cup  of  strawberries. 

SPONGE  CAKE  PUDDING.    No.  i. 

Bake  a  conunon  sponge  cake  in  a  flat-bottomed  pudding-dish;  when  ready  to 
use,  cut  in  six  or  eight  pieces;  split  and  spread  with  butter,  and  return  them  to 
the  dish.  Make  acustard  with  four  eggs  to  aquart  of  milk;  flavor  and  sweeten 
to  taste;  pour  over  the  cake,  and  bake  one-half  hour.  The  cake  will  swell  and 
fill  the  custard.    Serve  with  or  without  sauce. 

SPONGE  CAKE  PUDDING*    No.  2. 

Butter  a  pudding-mold:  flU  the  mold  with  small  sponge  cakes  or  shoes  of 
stale  plain  cake,  that  have  been  soaked  in  a  liquid  made  by  dissolving  one-half 
pint  of  jelly  in  a  pint  of  hot  water.  This  will  be  of  as  fine  a  fiavor  and  much 
better  for  all  than  if  the  cake  had  been  soaked  in  wine.  Make  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  custard  to  fill  the  mold,  and  leave  as  much  more  to  be  boiled  in  a  dish  by 
itself.  Set  the  mold,  after  being  tightly  covered,  into  a  kettle,  and  boil  one 
hour.  Turn  out  of  the  mold,  and  serve  with  some  of  the  other  custard  poured 
over  it. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Mix  well  together  one  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  molasses,  one-quarter  of  a  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  pure 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  367 

soda,  one  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  good  Graham  flour,  one  small  teacupf ul  of 
raisins,  spices  to  taste.  Steam  fom'  hours,  and  serve  with  brandy  or  wine 
sauce,  or  any  sauce  that  may  be  preferred.  This  makes  a  showy  as  well  as  a 
light  and  wholesome  dessert,  and  has  the  merit  of  simplicity  and  cheapness. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

Cut  sponge  cake  in  slices,  and,  in  a  glass  dish,  put  alternately  a  layer  of  cake 
and  a  layer  of  bananas  sliced.  Make  a  soft  custard,  flavor  with  a  little  wine, 
and  pour  over  it.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  heap  over  the 
whole. 

Peaches  cut  up,  left  a  few  hours  in  sugar  and  then  scalded,  and  added  when 
cold  to  thick  boiled  custard,  made  rather  sweet,  are  a  delicious  dessert. 

DRIED  PEACH  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  while  hot  turn  it  over  a  pint  of  bread-crumbs.  Stir 
into  it  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  one  pint  of  dried  peaches  stewed  soft.  When 
all  is  cool,  add  two  weU-beaten  eggs,  half  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  flavor  to  taste.  Put  into  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  half  an 
hoxu". 

SUET  PUDDING,  PLAIN. 

One  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  beaten,  half  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  but  thin  enough  to  pour 
from  a  spoon.  Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  three  hom:s.  The 
same,  made  a  little  thinner,  with  a  few  raisins  added,  and  baked  in  a  well- 
greased  dish  is  excellent.  Tv/o  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  in  the  flour 
improves  this  pudding.    Or  if  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda  it  is  equally  as  good. 

SUET  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cupful  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  cooking  molasses,  one  cupful 
-of  milk,  one  cupful  of  raisins,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  egg,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  and  one  of  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonfxil  of  soda;  boil  three  hours  in  a  pudding-mold  set  into  a  kettle  of  water^ 
eat  with  common  sweet  sauce.  If  sour  milk  is  used  in  place  of  sweet,  the  pud- 
ding will  be  much  lighter. 

PEACH  COBBLER. 

Line  a  deep  dish  with  rich  thick  crust;  pare  and  cut  into  halves  or  quarters 
some  juicy,  rather  tart  peaches;  put  in  sugai',  spices  and  flavoring  to  taste;  stew 
it  slightly,  and  put  it  in  the  lined  dish;  cover  with  thick  crust  of  rich  puff -paste. 


368  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

and  bake  a  rich  brown;  when  done,  break  up  the  top  crust  into  small  pieces,  and 
stir  it  into  the  fruit;  serve  hot  or  cold;  very  palatable  without  sauce,  but  more 
so  with  plain,  rich  cream  or  cream  sauce,  or  with  a  rich  brandy  or  wine.  Other 
fruits  can  be  used  in  place  of  peaches.   Currants  are  best  made  in  this  manner: 

Press  the  currants  through  a  sieve  to  free  it  from  pips;  to  each  pint  of  the 
ptdp  put  two  ounces  of  crumbed  bread  and  four  ounces  of  sugar;  bake  with  a 
rim  of  puff -paste;  serve  with  cream.    White  currants  may  be  used  instead  of  red. 

HOMINY  PUDDING. 
Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  hominy,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon  or  vanilla,  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  Boil  hominy  in  millr  one  hour;  then  pour  it  on  the  eggs, 
extract  and  sugar,  beaten  together;  add  butter,  pour  in  buttered  pudding-dish, 
bake  in  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

BAKED  BERRY  ROLLS. 

Boll  rich  biscuit-dough  thin,  cut  it  into  little  squares  four  inches  wide  and 
seven  inches  long.  Spread  over  with  berries.  Boll  up  the  crust,  and  put  the 
rolls  in  a  dripping-pan  just  a  httle  apart;  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  roU, 
spices  if  you  like.  Strew  over  a  large  handful  of  sugar,  a  little  hot  water.  Set 
in  the  oven  and  bake  tike  dumplings.    Served  with  sweet  sauce. 

GREEN-CORN  PUDDING. 

Take  two  dozen  full  ears  of  sweet  green  com,  score  the  kernels  and  cut  them 
from  the  cob.  Scrape  off  what  remains  on  the  cob  with  a  knife.  Add  a  pint 
and  a  half  or  one  quart  of  milk,  according  to  the  yoimgness  and  juiciness  of  the 
com.  Add  four  ^ggs  well  beaten,  a  half  teacupful  of  flour,  a  half  teacupful  of 
butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  well-greased 
earthen  dish,  in  a  hot  oven,  two  hours.  Place  it  on  the  table  browned  and 
smoking  hot,  eat  it  with  plenty  of  fresh  butter.  This  can  be  used  as  a 
dessert,  by  serving  a  sweet  sauce  with  it.  If  eaten  plainly  with  butter,  it 
answers  as  a  side  vegetable. 

GENEVA  WAFERS. 

Two  %gs,  three  ounces  of  butter,  three  ounces  of  flour,  three  ounces  of 
poimded  sugar.  WeU  whisk  the  eggs,  put  them  into  a  basin,  and  stir  to  them  the 
butter,  which  should  be  beaten  to  a  cream;  add  the  flour  and  sifted  sugar  gradu- 
ally, and  then  mix  all  well  together.  Butter  a  baking-sheet,  and  drop  on  it  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  at  a  time,  leaving  a  space  between  each.  Bake  in 
a  cool  oven;  watch  the  pieces  of  paste,  and,  when  half  done,  roll  them  up  like 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS.  369 

wafers,  and  put  in  a  small  wedge  of  bread  or  piece  of  wood,  to  keep  them  in 
shape.  Betum  them  to  the  oven  until  crisp.  Before  serving,  remove  the  bread, 
put  a  spoonful  of  preserve  in  the  widest  end,  and  fill  up  with  whipped  cream. 
This  is  a  very  pretty  and  ornamental  dish  for  the  supper-table,  and  is  very  nice, 
and  very  easily  made. 

MINUTE   PUDDING.    No.  i. 

Set  a  sauce-pan  or  deep  frying-pan  on  the  stove,  the  bottom  and  sides  weU 
buttered,  put  into  it  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
as  large  as  half  an  egg;  when  it  boils  have  ready  a  dish  of  sifted  flour,  stir  it 
into  the  boiling  milk,  sifting  it  through  your  fingers,  a  handful  at  a  time,  until 
it  becomes  smooth  and  quite  thick.  Turn  it  into  a  dish  that  has  been  dipped  in 
water.  Make  a  sauce  very  sweet  to  serve  with  it.  Maple  molasses  is  fine  with 
it.  This  pudding  is  much  improved  by  adding  canned  berries  or  fresh  ones  just 
before  taking  from  the  stove. 

MINUTE  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

One  quart  of  milk,  salt,  two  eggs,  about  a  pint  of  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  well; 
add  the  flour  and  enough  milk  to  make  it  smooth.  Butter  the  sauce-pan  and 
put  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk  well  salted ;  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  flour, 
eggs,  etc.,  lightly;  let  it  cook  well.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  thick  com 
mush.  Serve  immediately  with  the  following  simple  sauce,  mz :  Eich  milk  or 
cream  sweetened  to  taste,  and  flavored  with  grated  nutmeg. 

SUNDERLAND  PUDDING. 

One  cupf Til  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  cold  butter,  a  pint  of  milk,  two  cupfuls 
of  sifted  flour,  and  five  eggs.  Make  the  milk  hot;  stir  in  the  butter,  and  let  it 
cool  before  the  other  ingredients  are  added  to  it;  then  stir  in  the  sugar,  flour, 
and  eggs,  which  should  be  well  whisked,  and  omit  the  whites  of  two;  flavor 
with  a  little  grated  lemon-rind,  and  beat  the  mixture  well.  Butter  some  small 
cups,  rather  more  than  half  fill  them;  bake  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an 
hour,  according  to  the  size  of  the  puddings,  and  serve  with  fruit,  custard  or 
wine  sauce,  a  little  of  which  may  be  poured  over  them.  They  may  be  dropped 
by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins,  and  baked,  if  cups  are  not  convenient. 

JELLY  PUDDINGS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  very  fine,  stale  biscuit  or  bread  crumbs;  one  cupfol  of  rich 
milk— half  cream,  if  you  can  get  it;  five  e^s,  beaten  very  light;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  stirred  in  boiling  water;  one  cupful  of  sweet  jelly,  jam  or  mar- 
malade.   Scald  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  crumbs.    Beat  until  half  cold,  and 

24 


370  DUMPLINGS  AND  PUDDINGS. 

stir  in  the  beaten  yolka,  then  whites,  finally  the  soda.  Fill  large  cups  half  full 
with  the  batter;  set  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  When  done,  turn 
out  quickly,  and  dexterously;  with  a  sharp  knife  make  an  incision  in  the  side  of 
eacii;  pull  partly  open,  and  put  a  liberal  spoonful  of  the  conserve  within.  Close 
the  slit  by  pinching  the  edges  with  your  fingers.  Eat  warm  with  sweetened 
cream. 

QUICK  PUDDING. 

Soak  and  split  some  crackers;  lay  the  surface  over  with  raisins  and  citron; 
put  the  halves  together,  tie  them  in  a  bag,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  millr  and 
water:  delicious  with  rich  sauce. 

READY  PUDDING. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  and  about  one  pound  of  flour;  add  six 
eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately  beaten,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  It  should  be  as  stiff  as  can  possibly  be  stirred  with  a 
six>on.  Dip  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  quick  boiling  water,  boil  from  five  to  ten 
minutes,  take  out.    Serve  hot  with  sauce  or  syrup. 

A  ROYAL  DESSERT. 

Cut  a  stale  cake  into  slices  an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickuess;  pour  over  them 
a  little  good,  sweet  cream;  then  fry  lightly  in  fresh  butter  in  a  smooth  frying- 
pan;  when  done,  place  over  each  slice  of  cake  a  layer  of  preserves;  or,  you  may 
make  a  rich  sauce  to  be  served  with  it. 

Another  dish  equally  as  good,  is  to  dip  thin  slices  of  bread  into  fresh  milk; 
have  ready  two  eggs  well-beaten;  dip  the  slices  in  the  egg,  and  fry  them  in 
butter  to  a  Ught  brown;  when  fried,  pour  over  them  a  syrup,  any  kind  that  you 
choose,  and  serve  hot. 

HUCKLEBERRIES  WITH  CRACKERS  AND  CREAM. 

Pick  over  carofully  one  quart  of  blueberries,  and  keep  them  on  ice  until 
wanted.  Put  into  each  bowl,  for  each  guest,  two  soda-crackers,  broken  in  not 
too  small  pieces;  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  berries,  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  fill  the  bowl  with  the  richest  of  cold,  sweet  cream.  This  is  an  old- 
fashioned  New  England  breakfast  dish.    It  also  answers  for  a  dessert. 


BRANDY   SAUCE,  COLD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  wine-glassful  of 
brandy,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful  of  each.  Warm  the  butter 
slightly,  and  work  it  to  a  light  cream  with  the  sugar,  then  add  the  brandy  and 
spices;  beat  it  hard  and  set  aside  until  wanted.  Should  be  put  into  a  mold  to 
look  nicely,  and  serve  on  a  flat  dish. 

BRANDY  OR  WINE  SAUCE.     No.  i. 

Stir  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  in  a  Uttle  cold  water  to  a  smooth 
paste  (or  instead  use  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour);  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  boil  all 
together  ten  minutes.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool,  stir  into  it  half  of 
a  cupful  of  brandy  or  wine.    It  should  be  about  as  thick  as  thin  syrup. 

RICH  WINE  SAUCE.    No.  2. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  wine.  Beat 
the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  when  very  light  add  the 
wine,  which  has  been  made  hot,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nut- 
meg. Place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  stir  for  two  minutes.  The 
sauce  should  be  smooth  and  foamy. 

BRANDY  OR  WINE  SAUCE-    No-  j 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
five  tablespoonf uls  of  sherry  wine  or  brandy,  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  unbeaten,  and  then  the  wine  or  brandy.  Place  the  bowl  in  hot  water,  and 
stir  till  smooth  and  frothy. 


3  72  SA  UCES  FOR  PUDDINGS, 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM-PUDDING.  (Superior.) 
Cream  together  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  when  light 
and  creamy,  add  the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Stir  into  this  one  wine- 
glass of  wine  or  one  of  brandy,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  large  cupful  of  hot  cream 
or  rich  milk.  Beat  this  mixture  well;  place  it  in  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  stir 
it  until  it  cooks  sufficiently  to  thicken  like  cream.  Be  sure  and  not  Ist  it  boiL 
DeUcious. 

LIQUID  BRANDY  SAUCE. 
Brown  over  the  fire  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  a  cupful  of  water,  six 
whole  cloves  and  a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  very 
thin;  let  the  sauce  boil,  strain  while  hot,  then  pour  it  into  a  sauce  bowl  contain- 
ing the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  a  cup  of  brandy.    Serve  warm. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  SAUCE. 
Cream  together  a  cupful  of  sifted  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  an  egg  well  beaten.    Boil  a  teacupful  of 
milk  and  turn  it,  boiling  hot,  over  the  mixture  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time;  this 
will  cook  the  egg  smoothly.    It  may  be  served  cold  or  hot. 

SUGAR  SAUCE. 

One  coffee-cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  half  of  a  cupful  of  water,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  all  together  until  it  becomes  the  consistency  of 
syrup.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.  A  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice 
is  an  improvement.    Nice  with  cottage  pudding. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  egg  beaten  light,  one  lemon, 
juice  and  grated  lind,  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water;  put  in  a  tin  basin  and 
thicken  over  steam. 

LEMON  CREAM  SAUCE,  HOT. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  stir  into  it  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  wheat  flour,  fotu:  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  weU-beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs;  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  add  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon; 
stir  it  weU,  and  serve  hot  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

ORANGE  CREAM  SAUCE,  HOT. 

This  is  made  as  "  Lemon  Cream  Sauce,"  substituting  orange  for  lemon. 
Creams  for  puddings,  pies  and  fritters,  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS.  373 

with  any  other  flavoring;  if  flour  is  used  in  malring  them^  it  should  boil  in  the 
mUk  three  or  four  minutes. 

COLD  LEMON  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  teacupful  of  butter  and  two  teacupfuls  of  fine  white  sugar; 
then  stir  in  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  grate  nutmeg  upon  the 
sauce,  and  serve  on  a  flat  dish. 

COLD  ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  teacupful  of  butter  and  two  teacupfuls  of  fine  white  sugar; 
then  stir  in  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  the  juice  of  two;  stir  until  all  the 
orange- juice  is  absorbed;  grate  nutmeg  upon  the  sauce^  and  serve  on  a  flat  dish. 

COLD  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Stir  to  a  cream  one  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  then  add  a  cupful 
of  sweet,  thick,  cold  cream,  flavor  to  taste.     Stir  weD,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

CREAM  SAUCE,  WARM. 
Heat  a  pint  of  cream  slowly  in  a  double  boiler;  when  nearly  boihng,  set  it  off 
from  the  fire,  put  into  it  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  Uttle  nutmeg  or  vanilla  extract; 
stir  it  thoroughly,  and  add,  when  cool,  the  whites  of  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Set 
it  on  the  fire  in  a  dish  containing  hot  water  to  keep  it  warm  until  needed,  stir- 
ring once  or  more. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 

Place  over  the  fire  a  sauce-pan;  when  it  begins  to  be  hot,  put  into  it  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  water.  Stir  it  continu- 
ally for  three  or  four  minutes,  until  all  the  water  evaporates;  then  watch  it 
carefully  until  it  becomes  a  delicate  brown  color.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  cold 
water  and  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with  some  flavoring;  turn  it  into  the  sauce-pan 
with  the  browned  sugar,  and  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  half  a  glass 
of  brandy  or  a  glass  of  wine.    The  wine  or  brandy  may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 

A  GOOD,  PLAIN  SAUCE. 

A  good  sauce  to  go  with  plain  fruit  puddings  is  made  by  mixing  one  cupful 
of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  best  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  large 
teaspoonful  of  flour;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  When  these  are  all  stirred 
together,  add  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  it  constantly,  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  it  boil  imtil  clear;  then  strain. 


374  SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

OLD-STYLE  SAUCE. 
One  pint  of  sour  cream,  the  juice  and  finely  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon; 
sugar  to  taste.    Beat  hard  and  long  until  the  sauce  is  very  light.    This  is  delic- 
ious with  cold  "  Brown  Betty  " — ^a  form  of  cold  farina^  com-starch,  blanc-mange, 
and  the  like. 

PLAIN  COLD,  HARD  SAUCE. 
Stir  together  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  imtil  it 
is  creamy  and  hght;  add  flavoring  to  taste.    This  is  very  nice,  flavored  with  the 
juice  of  raspberries  or.  strawberries,  or  beat  into  it  a  cupful  of  ripe  strawberries 
or  raspberries  and  the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  stiff. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  flavoring  to  taste, 
brandy  or  wine,  if  preferred. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  add  by  degrees  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  put  in 
the  flavoring,  and  set  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken;  then  take  it  off,  and  stir  in  the  brandy  or  wine  gradually;  set,  until 
wanted,  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

MILK  SAUCE.    No.  i. 

Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  cold  milk;  see  that  it  is  free  from  lumps. 
Whisk  an  oimce  of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  to  it  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  milk,  one  egg,  and  the  flour;  stir  this 
into  the  butter,  and  add  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  or  any  flavor;  heat  imtil  near  the 
boiling  point,  and  serve.     Very  nice  in  place  of  cold  cream. 

MILK  OR  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Cream  or  rich  milk,  simply  sweetened  with  plenty  of  white  sugar  and  flavored, 
answers  the  purpose  of  some  kinds  of  pudding,  and  can  be  made  very  quickly. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  raspberries  or  strawberries,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  a  cupful  of  hot  water.  Boil  all  together  slowly, 
removing  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises;  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  This  is 
very  good  served  with  dumplings  or  apple  puddings. 

JELLY  SAUCE. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  jelly  over  the  flre  in  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  adding  also  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  then  stir  into 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS.  375 

it  a  teaspoonful  of  com-starch,  dissolved  in  half  a  cupful  of  water  or  wine;  add 
it  to  the  jelly^  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Set  it  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  to  keep  it 
warm  until  time  to  serve;  stir  occasionally.    Any  fruit  jelly  can  be  used. 

COMMON  SWEET  SAUCE. 

Into  a  pint  of  water  stir  a  paste  made  of  a  tablespooonful  of  com-starch  or 
flour  (rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water);  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Cook  well  for  three  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  small  egg;  when  cool,  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract. 

SYRUP  FOR  FRUIT  SAUCE. 

An  excellent  syrup  for  fruit  sauce  is  made  of  MoreUo  cherries  (red,  sour 
cherries).  For  each  pound  of  cherry  juice,  allow  half  a  poimd  of  sugar  and  six 
cherry  kernels ;  seed  the  chenies  and  let  them  stand  in  a  bowl  over  night ;  in 
the  morning,  press  them  through  a  fine  cloth  which  has  been  dipped  in  boiling 
water ;  weigh  the  juice,  add  the  sugar,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  removing  all  the 
scum.  Fill  small  bottles  that  are  perfectly  dry  with  the  syrup;  when  it  is  cold, 
cork  the  bottles  tightly,  seal  them  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place,  standing 
upright. 

Most  excellent  to  put  into  pudding  sauces. 

ROSE  BRANDY.    (For  Cakes  and  Puddings.) 

Gather  the  leaves  of  roses  while  the  dew  is  on  them,  and  as  soon  as  they 
open,  put  them  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  when  the  bottle  is  full,  pour  in 
Ihe  best  of  fourth  proof  French  brandy. 

It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  three  or  four  weeks,  and  may  be  frequently  replenished. 
It  is  sometimes  considered  preferable  to  wine  as  a  fiavoring  to  pastries  and  pud- 
ding sauces. 

LEMON  BRANDY.    (For  Cakes  and  Puddings.) 

When  you  use  lemons  for  punch  or  lemonade,  do  not  throw  away  xne  peels, 
but  cut  them  in  small  pieces — the  thin  yellow  outside  (the  thick  part  is  not  good), 
and  put  them  in  a  glass  jar  or  bottle  of  brandy.  You  will  find  this  brandy  useful 
for  many  purposes. 

In  the  same  way  keep  for  use  the  kernels  of  peach  and  plum  stones,  pound- 
iug  them  slightly  before  you  put  them  into  the  brandy. 


Fruit  for  preserving  should  be  sound  and  free  from  all  def ects,  using  white 
sugar^  and  also  that  which  is  dry,  which  produces  the  nicest  syrup;  dark  sugar 
can  be  used  by  being  clarified,  which  is  done  by  dissolving  two  pounds  of  sugar 
in  a  pint  of  water;  add  to  it  the  white  of  an  egg>  and  beat  it  weU,  put  it  into  a 
pUBserving  kettle  on  the  fire,  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon.  As  soon  as  it  begins 
to  swell  and  boil  up,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water;  let  it  boil  up  again,  take  it  off, 
and  remove  the  scum;  boil  it  again,  throw  in  more  cold  water,  and  remove  the 
scum;  repeat  until  it  is  clear  and  pours  like  oil  from  the  spoon. 

In  the  old  way  of  preserving,  we  used  pound  for  pound,  when  they  were  kept 
in  stone  jars  or  crocks;  now,  as  most  preserves  are  put  up  in  sealed  jars  or  cans, 
less  sugar  seems  sufficient;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  is  generally  all 
that  is  required  for  a  pound  of  fruit. 

Fruit  should  be  boiled  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite-ware  dish,  if  possible; 
but  other  utensils,  copper  or  metal,  if  made  bright  and  clean,  answer  as  welL 

Any  of  the  fruits  that  have  been  preserved  in  syrup  may  be  converted  into 
dry  preserves,  by  first  draining  them  from  the  syrup,  and  then  drying  them  in  a 
stove  or  very  moderate  oven,  adding  to  them  a  quantity  of  powdered  loaf  siigar, 
which  will  gradually  penetrate  the  fruit,  while  the  fluid  parts  of  the  sjrrup  gently 
evaporate.  They  should  be  dried  in  the  stove  or  oven  on  a  sieve,  and  turned 
every  six  or  eight  hours,  fresh  powdered  sugar  being  sifted  over  them  every  time 
they  are  turned.  Afterwards,  they  are  to  be  kept  in  a  dry  situation,  in  drawers 
or  boxes.  Currants  and  cherries  preserved  whole  in  this  manner,  in  bunches, 
are  extremely  elegant,  and  have  a  fine  flavor.  In  this  way  it  is,  also,  that 
orange  and  lemon  chips  are  preserved. 

Mold  can  be  prevented  from  forming  on  fruit  jellies  by  pouring  a  little  melted 
paraffine  over  the  top.  When  cool,  it  vnll  harden  to  a  solid  cake,  which  can  be 
easily  removed  when  the  jelly  is  used,  and  saved  to  use  over  again  another  year. 
It  is  perfectly  harmless  and  tasteless.     < 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  377 

Large  glass  tumblers  axe  the  best  for  keeping  jellies,  much  better  than  large 
vessels,  for  by  being  opened  frequently  they  soon  spoil;  a  paper  should  be  cut  to 
fit,  and  placed  over  the  jelly;  then  put  on  the  Ud  or  cover,  with  thick  paper 
rubbed  over  on  the  inside  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 

There  cannot  be  too  much  care  taken  in  selecting  fruit  for  jellies,  for  if  the 
fruit  is  over  ripe,  any  amount  of  time  in  boiling  will  never  make  it  jelly, — there 
is  where  so  many  fail  in  making  good  jelly;  and  another  important  matter  is 
overlooked— that  of  carefully  skimming  oflf  the  juice  after  it  begins  to  boil  and 
a  scum  rises  from  the  bottom  to  the  top;  the  juice  should  not  be  stuTed,  but  the 
scum  carefully  taken  off:  if  allowed  to  boil  imder,  the  jelly  wiU  not  be  clear. 

When  either  preserves  or  canned  fruits  show  any  indications  of  fermenta- 
tion, they  should  be  immediately  reboiled  with  more  sugar,  to  save  them.  It  is 
much  better  to  be  generous  with  the  sugar  at  first,  than  to  have  any  losses  after- 
wards.   Keep  all  preserves  in  a  cool,  dry  closet. 

PRESERVED  CHERRIES. 

Take  large,  ripe  Morella  cherries;  weigh  them,  and  to  each  pound  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Stone  the  cherries,  (opening  them  vdth  a  sharp  quill,)  and 
save  the  juice  that  comes  from  them  in  the  process.  As  you  stone  them,  throw 
them  into  a  large  pan  or  tureen,  and  strew  about  half  the  sugar  over  them,  and 
let  them  lie  in  it  an  hour  or  two  after  they  are  all  stoned.  Then  put  them  into 
a  preserving-kettle  with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim  them  till 
the  fruit  is  dear  and  the  syrup  thick. 

PRESERVED  CRANBERRIES. 

The  cranberries  must  be  large  and  ripe.  Wash  them,  and  to  six  quarts  of 
cranberries  allow  nine  pounds  of  the  best  loaf  sugar.  Take  three  quarts  of  the 
cranberries,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water. 
Cover  the  pan,  and  boil  or  stew  them  till  they  are  all  to  pieces.  Then  squeeze 
the  juice  through  a  jelly  bag.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle,  pom:  the 
cranberry  juice  over  it,  and  let  it  stand  until  it  is  all  melted,  stirring  it  up  fre- 
quently. Then  place  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  put  in  the  remaining  three 
quarts  of  whole  cranberries.  Let  them  boil  tiU  they  are  tender,  clear,  and  of  a 
bright  color,  skinmiing  them  frequently.  When  done,  put  them  warm  into  jars 
with  the  syrup,  which  should  be  like  a  thick  jelly. 

PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES. 
For  every  pound  of  fruit  weigh  a  pomid  of  refined  sugar,  put  them  with  the 
sugar  over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  bring  to  a  boil  slowly  about  twenty 


378  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

minutes.  Take  them  out  carefully  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  fill  your  hot 
jars  nearly  full;  boil  the  juice  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  fiD  up  the  jars;  seal 
them  hot.    Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

TO  PRESERVE  BERRIES  WHOLE.    (Excellent) 

Buy  the  fruit  when  not  too  ripe^  pick  over  immediately,  wash  if  absolutely 
necessary,  and  put  in  glass  jars,  filling  each  one  about  two-thirds  full. 

Put  in  the  preserving  kettle  a  pound  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  for 
every  two  pounds  of  fruit,  and  let  it  come  slowly  to  a  boil.  Pour  this  syrup  into 
the  jars  over  the  berries,  filling  them  up  to  the  brim;  then  set  the  jars  in  a  pot 
of  cold  water  on  the  stove,  and  let  the  water  boil  and  the  fruit  become  scalding 
hot.  Now  take  them  out  and  seal  perfectly  tight.  If  this  process  is  followed 
thoroughly,  the  fruit  will  keep  for  several  years. 

PRESERVED  EGG  PLUMS. 

Use  a  pound  of  sugar  for  a  pound  of  plums;  wash  the  plums,  and  wipe  dry; 
put  the  sugar  on  a  slow  fire  in  the  preserving-kettle,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  melt  the  sugar,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly;  then  prick  each  plum  thoroughly 
with  a  needle,  or  a  fork  with  fine  prongs,  and  place  a  layer  of  them  in  the  syrup; 
let  them  cook  xmtil  they  lose  their  color  a  Uttle  and  the  skins  begin  to  break; 
then  lift  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  place  them  singly  in  a  large 
dish  to  cool;  then  put  another  layer  of  plums  in  the  syrup,  and  let  them  cook 
and  cool  in  the  same  manner,  until  the  whole  are  done;  as  they  cool,  carefully 
replace  the  broken  skins  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  plums;  when 
the  last  layer  is  finished,  retiun  the  first  to  the  kettle,  and  boil  until  transparent; 
do  the  same  with  each  layer;  while  the  latest  cooked  are  cooling,  place  the  first 
in  glass  jars;  when  all  are  done,  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them;  when  they  are 
cold,  close  as  usual;  the  jelly  should  be  of  the  color  and  consistency  of  rich  wine 
jeUy. 


Peaches  for  preserving  may  be  ripe  but  not  soft;  cut  them  in  halves,  take  out 
the  stones,  and  pare  them  neatly;  take  as  many  pounds  of  white  sugar  as  of 
fruit,  put  to  each  pound  of  sugar  a  teacupful  of  water;  stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved; 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire;  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  peaches;  let  them 
boil  gently  until  a  pure,  dear,  uniform  color;  turn  those  at  the  bottom  to  the  top 
carefully  with  a  skimmer  several  times;  do  not  hurry  them.  When  they  are 
dear,  take  each  half  up  with  a  spoon,  and  spread  the  halves  on  flat  dishes  to 
become  cold.  When  all  are  done,  let  the  syrup  boil  until  it  is  quite  thick;  pour  it 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  379 

into  a  laige  pitcher,  and  let  it  set  to  cool  and  settle.  When  the  peaches  are  cold 
put  them  carefully  into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them,  leaving  any  sedi- 
ment which  has  settled  at  the  bottom,  or  strain  the  syrup.  Some  of  the  kernels 
from  the  peach-stones  may  be  put  in  with  the  peaches  while  boiling.  Let  them 
remain  open  one  night,  then  cover. 

In  like  manner  quince,  plum,  apricot,  apple,  cherry,  greengage  and  other 
fruit  preserves  are  made;  in  every  case  fine  large  fruit  should  be  taken,  free 
from  imperfections,  and  the  sUghtest  bruises  or  other  fault  should  be  removed. 

PRESERVED  GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Slice  six  fresh  lemons  without  removing 
the  skins,  but  taking  out  the  seeds;  put  to  this  quantity  six  pounds  of  sugar, 
common  white,  and  boil  until  transparent  and  the  syrup  thick.  Ginger  root 
may  be  added,  if  liked. 

PRESERVED  APPLES.    (Whole.) 

Peel  and  core  large  firm  apples  (pippins  are  best).  Throw  them  into  water 
as  you  pare  them.  Boil  the  parings  in  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  aUowing  a 
pint  to  one  i)ound  of  fruit.  Then  strain,  and,  adding  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water,  as  measured  at  first,  with  enough  lemon-peel, 
orange-peel  or  mace,  to  impart  a  pleasant  flavor,  return  to  the  kettle.  When 
the  syrup  has  been  weU-skimmed  and  is  clear,  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the 
apples,  which  must  be  drained  from  the  water  in  which  they  have  hitherto 
stood.  Let  them  remain  in  the  syrup  until  both  are  perfectly  cold.  Then, 
covering  closely,  let  them  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  xmtil  transparent.  When  all 
the  minutisB  of  these  directions  are  attended  to,  the  fruit  will  remain  imbroken, 
and  present  a  beautiful  and  inviting  appearance. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  yom:  fruit,  then  weigh  it  and  allow  an  equal  quantity 
of  white  sugar.  Take  the  parings  and  cores,  and  put  in  a  preserving-kettle; 
cover  them  with  water  and  boil  for  half  an  hour;  then  strain  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  put  the  juice  back  into  the  kettle  and  boil  the  quinces  in  it  a  Uttle  at  a 
time  until  they  are  tender;  lift  out  as  they  are  done  with  a  drainer  and  lay  on 
a  dish;  if  the  liquid  seems  scarce  add  more  water.  When  all  are  cooked,  throw 
into  this  liquor  the  sugar,  and  aUow  it  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the 
quinces;  let  them  boil  until  they  change  color,  say  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  on  a 
slow  fire;  while  they  are  boiling  occasionally  slip  a  silver  spoon  under  them  to 
see  that  they  do  not  bum,  but  on  no  account  stir  them.    Have  two  fresh  lemons 


38o  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

cut  in  thin  slices^  and  when  the  &uit  is  being  put  in  jars  lay  a  slice  or  two  in  eacK 
Quinces  may  be  steamed  until  tender. 

PRESERVED  PEARS. 

One  pound  of  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar;  pare  off  the  peeling  thin.  Make  a 
nice  syrup  of  nearly  one  cupful  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  when 
clarified  by  boiling  and  fllrimnm'Tig  put  in  the  pears  and  stew  gently  until  dear. 
Choose  rather  pears  like  the  SecMe  for  preserving,  both  on  account  of  the  flavor 
and  size.  A  nice  way  is  to  stick  a  dove  in  the  blossom  end  of  each  pear,  for 
this  fruit  seems  to  require  some  extraneous  flavor  to  bring  out  its  own  piquancy. 
Another  acceptable  addition  to  pear  preserves  may  be  found  instead,  by  adding 
the  juice  and  thinly  pared  rind  of  one  lemon  to  each  five  pounds  of  fruit.  If  the- 
pears  are  hard  and  tough,  parboil  them  until  tender  before  begiiming  to  pre- 
serve, and  from  the  same  water  take  what  you  need  for  making  their  syrup. 

If  you  can  procure  only  large  pears  to  preserve,  cut  them  into  halves,  or  even 
slices,  so  that  they  can  get  done  more  quickly,  and  lose  nothing  in  appearance,, 
either. 

PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 

Twist  off  the  top  and  bottom,  and  pare  off  the  rough  outside  of  pineapples^ 
then  weigh  them  and  cut  them  in  slices,  chips  or  quarters,  or  cut  them  in  four 
or  six,  and  shape  each  piece  like  a  whole  pineapple;  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  put  a 
teacupful  of  water;  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle,  cover  it  and  set  it  over  the 
fire,  and  let  them  boil  gently  xmtil  they  are  tender  and  clear;  then  take  them 
from  the  water,  by  sticking  a  fork  in  the  centre  of  each  slice,  or  with  a  skimmer, 
into  a  dish. 

Put  to  the  water  white  sugar,  a  pound  for  each  pound  of  fruit;  stir  it  until  it 
is  all  dissolved;  then  put  in  the  pineapple,  cover  the  kettle,  and  let  them  boil 
gently  until  transparent  thoughout;  when  it  is  so,  take  it  out,  let  it  cool,  and 
put  it  in  glass  jars;  let  the  syrup  boil  or  simmer  gently  until  it  is  thick  and  rich,, 
and  when  nearly  cool,  pour  it  over  the  fruit.  The  next  day  secure  the  jars,  aa 
before  directed. 

Pineapple  done  in  this  way  is  a  beautiful  and  delidous  preserve.  The  usual 
manner  of  preserving  it,  by  putting  it  into  the  syrup  without  first  boiling  it» 
makes  it  little  better  than  sweetened  leather. 

TO  PRESERVE  WATERMELON  RIND  AND  CITRON. 

Pare  off  the  green  skin,  cut  the  watermelon  rind  into  pieces.  Weigh  the 
pieces,  and  allow  to  each  poimd  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar.    line  your 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  38 1 

kettle  with  green  vine-leaves,  and  put  in  the  pieces  vnihovi  the  sugar.  A  layer 
of  vine-leaves  must  cover  each  layer  of  melon  rind.  Pour  in  water  to  cover  the 
whole,  and  place  a  thick  cloth  over  the  kettle.  Simmer  the  fruit  for  two  hours, 
after  scattering  a  few  bits  of  alum  amongst  it.  Spread  the  melon  rind  on  a  dish 
to  cool.  Melt  the  sugar,  using  a  pint  of  water  to  a  poimd  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
and  mix  with  it  some  beaten  white  of  egg.  Boil  and  skim  the  sugar.  When 
quite  clear,  put  in  the  rind,  and  let  it  boil  two  hours;  take  out  the  rind,  boil 
the  syrup  again,  pour  it  over  the  rind,  and  let  it  remain  all  night.  The  next 
morning,  boil  the  syrup  with  lemon-juice,  allowing  one  lemon  to  a  quart  of 
syrup.  When  it  is  thick  enough  to  hang  in  a  drop  from  the  point  of  a  spoon,  it 
is  done.  Put  the  rind  in  jars,  and  pour  over  it  the  syrup.  It  is  not  fit  for  use 
immediately. 

Citrons  may  be  preserved  jn  the  same  manner,  first  paring  off  the  outer  skin, 
and  cutting  them  into  quarters.    Also  green  limes. 

TO  PRESERVE  AND  DRY  GREENGAGES. 

To  every  pound  of  sugar  allow  one  pound  of  fruit,  one  quarter  pint  of  water. 

For  this  purpose,  the  fruit  must  be  used  before  it  is  quite  ripe,  and  part  of 
the  stalk  must  be  left  on.  Weigh  the  fruit,  rejecting  all  that  is  in  the  least 
degree  blemished,  and  put  it  into  a  lined  sauce-pan  with  the  sugar  and  water, 
which  should  have  been  previously  boiled  together  to  a  rich  syrup.  Boil  the. 
fruit  in  this  for  ten  minutes,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  drain  the  greengages. 
The  next  day  boil  up  the  syrup  and  put  in  the  fruit  again,  let  it  sinuner  for 
three  minutes,  and  drain  the  syrup  away.  Continue  this  process  for  five  or 
six  days,  and  the  last  time  place  the  greengages,  when  drained,  on  a  hair-sieve, 
and  put  them  in  an  oven  or  warm  spot  to  dry;  keep  them  in  a  box,  with  paper 
between  each  layer,  in  a  place  free  from  damp. 

PRESERVED  PUMPKINS. 

To  each  pound  of  pumpkin  allow  one  pound  of  roughly  pounded  loaf  sugar, 
one  giU  of  lemon- juice. 

Obtain  a  good,  sweet  pumpkin;  halve  it,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  pare  off  the 
rind;  cut  it  into  neat  sUces.  Weigh  the  pumpkin,  put  the  shoes  in  a  pan  or  deep 
dish  in  layers,  with  the  sugai'  sprinkled  between  them;  pour  the  lemon- juice 
over  the  top,  and  let  the  whole  remain  for  two  or  three  days.  Boil  all  together, 
adding  half  a  pint  of  water  to  every  three  pounds  of  sugar  used  imtil  the 
pumpkin  becomes  tender;  then  turn  the  whole  into  a  pan,  where  let  it  remain 
for  a  week;  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  until  it  is  quite  thick;  skim,  and 


382  PItESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

pour  it  boiling  over  the  pumpkiiL    A  little  bruised  ginger,  and  lemon-rind, 
thinly  pared,  may  be  boiled  in  tbe  syrup  to  flavor  the  piunpkin. 

— A  SatUh^m  recipe. 

PRESERVING  FRUIT.    (New  Mode-) 

Housekeepers  who  dislike  the  tedious,  old-time  fashion  of  clarifying  sugar 
and  boiling  the  fruit,  will  appreciate  the  following  two  recipes^  no  fire  being 
needed  in  their  preparation.  The  first  is  for  ^Hutti  frutti,"  and  has  been  re- 
peatedly  tested  with  unvarying  success. 

Put  one  quart  of  white,  preserving,  fine  Batavia  brandy  into  a  two-gallon 
stone  jar  that  has  a  tightly  fitting  top.  Then  for  every  pound  of  fruit,  in  prime 
condition  and  perfectly  dry,  which  you  put  in  the  brandy,  use  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  stir  every  day  so  that  the  sugar  will  be  dissolved, 
using  a  clean,  wooden  spoon  kept  for  the  purpose.  Every  sort  of  fruit  may  be 
used,  beginning  with  strawberries  and  ending  with  plums.  Be  sure  and  have  at 
least  one  pound  of  black  cherries,  as  they  make  the  color  of  the  preserve  very 
rich.  Strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  apricots,  cherries  (sweet  and  sour), 
peaches,  plums,  are  all  used,  and,  if  you  like,  currants  and  grapes.  Plums  and 
grapes  should  be  peeled  and  seeded,  apricots  and  peaches  peeled  and  cut  in 
quarters  or  eighths  or  dice;  cherries  also  must  be  seeded:  quinces  may  be  steamed 
imtil  tender.  The  jar  must  be  kept  in  a  cod,  diy  place,  and  the  daily  stirring 
must  never  be  forgotten,  for  that  is  the  secret  of  success.  You  may  use  as  much 
of  one  sort  of  fruit  as  you  like,  and  it  may  be  put  in  from  day  to  day,  just  as 
you  happen  to  have  it.  Half  the  quantity  of  spirits  may  be  used.  The  preserve 
will  be  ready  for  use  within  a  week  after  the  last  fruit  is  put  in^  and  wiU  keep 
for  a  number  of  months.    We  have  found  it  good  eight  months  after  making. 

The  second  is  as  follows:  Take  some  pure  white  vinogar  and  mix  with  it 
granulated  sugar  until  a  syrup  is  formed  quite  free  from  acidity.  Pour  this 
syrup  into  earthen  jars  and  put  in  it  good,  perfectly  ripe  fruit,  gathered  in  dry 
weather.  Cover  the  jars  tight,  and  put  them  in  a  dry  place.  The  contents  will 
keep  for  six  or  eight  months,  and  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  will  be  excellent. 

TO  PRESERVE  FRUIT  WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

Cherries,  strawberries,  sliced  pineapple,  plums,  apricots,  gooseberries,  etc.^ 
may  be  preserved  in  the  following  manner— to  be  used  the  same  as  fresh  fruit. 

Gather  the  fruit  before  it  is  very  ripe;  put  it  in  wide-mouthed  bottles  made 
for  the  purpose;  fill  them  as  full  as  they  will  hold,  and  cork  them  tight;  seal  the 
corks;  put  some  hay  in  a  large  sauce-pan,  set  in  the  bottles,  with  hay  between 
them  to  prevent  their  touching;  then  fill  the  sauce-pan  with  water  to  the  necks 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  383 

of  the  bottles,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  until  the  water  is  nearly  boiling,  then  take 
it  off;  let  it  stand  until  the  bottles  are  cold.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  place  until 
wanted,  when  the  fruit  will  be  found  equal  to  fresh. 

NEW  METHOD  OF  PRESERVING  FRUIT. 
A  new  method  of  preserving  fruit  is  practiced  in  England.  Pears,  apples 
and  other  fruits  are  reduced  to  a  paste  by  jamming,  which  is  then  pressed  into 
cakes  and  gently  dried.  When  required  for  use  it  is  only  necessary  to  pour  four 
times  their  weight  of  boiling  water  over  them,  and  allow  them  to  soak  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  then  add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  The  fine  flavor  of  the  fruit  is 
said  to  be  retained  to  perfection.  The  cost  of  the  prepared  product  is  scarcely 
greater  than  that  of  the  original  fruit,  differing  vnth  the  supply  and  price  of  the 
latter;  the  keeping  qualities  are  excellent,  so  that  it  may  be  had  at  any  time  of 
the  year,  and  bears  long  sea-voyages  without  detriment.  No  peeling  or  coring 
is  required,  so  there  is  no  waste. 

FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Take  a  stone  jar  and  put  in  the  fruit,  place  this  in  a  kettle  of  tepid  water, 
and  set  on  the  fire;  let  it  boil  closely  covered,  until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces; 
strain,  pressing  the  bag^  a  stout,  coarse  one,  hard,  putting  in  a  few  handfuls 
each  time,  and  between  each  squeezing  turning  it  inside  out  to  scald  off  the  pulp 
and  skins;  to  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a  poimd  of  loaf  sugar;  set  the  juice  on 
alone  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  boiling,  put  the  sugar  into  shallow  dishes  or  pans, 
and  heat  it  in  the  oven,  watching  and  stirring  the  sugar  to  prevent  burning; 
boil  the  juice  just  twenty  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins  fairly  to  boil;  by  this 
time  the  sugar  should  be  very  hot;  throw  the  sugar  into  the  boiling  juice,  stir- 
ring rapidly  all  the  time;  v^thdraw  the  spoon  when  all  is  thoroughly  dissolved; 
let  the  jelly  come  to  a  boil  to  make  all  certain;  v^thdraw  the  kettle  instantly 
from  the  fire;  roll  your  glasses  and  cups  in  hot  water,  and  fill  with  the  scalding 
Uquid;  the  jelly  vdll  form  within  an  hour;  when  cold,  dose  and  tie  up  as  you 
do  preserves. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Currants  for  jelly  should  be  perfectly  ripe  and  gathered  the  first  week  of 
the  season ;  they  lose  their  jelly  property  if  they  hang  on  the  bushes  too 
long,  and  become  too  juicy — the  juice  will  fiot  be  apt  to  congeal.  Strip  them 
from  the  stalks,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water 
over  the  fire;  keep  the  water  around  it  boiling  imtil  the  currants  are  all  broken, 
stirring  them  up  occasionally.  Then  squeeze  them  through  a  coarse  cloth  or 
towel.    To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  refined  sugar.    Put 


384  PRESERVES.  JELLIES,  ETC. 

the  sugar  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  pour  the  juice  orerit,  stirring  fr6q[n6ntl7. 
Skim  it  before  it  boils;  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  congeals  in  the 
spoon  when  held  in  the  air.    Pour  it  into  hot  jelly  glasses  and  seal  when  cooL 
Wild  frost  grape  jelly  is  nice  made  after  this  recipe. 

CURRANT  JELLY.  (New  Method.) 
This  recipe  for  making  superior  jelly  without  heat  is  given  in  a  Parisian 
journal  of  chemistry,  which  may  be  worth  trying  by  some  of  our  readers.  The 
currants  are  to  be  washed  and  squeezed  in  the  usual  way,  and  the  juice  placed 
ina  stone  or  earthen  vessel,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place  in  the  cellar.  Li  about 
twenty-four  hours  a  considerable  amount  of  froth  wiU  cover  the  surface,  pro- 
duced by  fermentation,  and  this  must  be  removed,  and  the  whole  strained  again 
through  the  jelly  bag,  then  weighed,  and  an  equal  weight  of  powdered  white 
sugar  is  to  be  added.  This  is  to  be  stirred  constantly  until  entirely  dissolved, 
and  then  put  into  jars,  tied  up  tightly,  and  set  away.  At  the  end  of  another 
twenty-four  hours  a  perfectly  transparent  jelly  of  the  most  satisfactory  flavor 
will  be  f  ormed^  which  will  keep  as  long  as  if  it  had  been  cooked. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 
Quinces  for  jelly  should  not  be  quite  ripe,  they  should  be  a  fine  yellow;  rub 
off  the  down  from  them,  core  them,  and  cut  them  small;  put  them  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  with  a  teacupful  of  water  for  each  pound;  let  them  stew  gently  until 
soft,  without  mashing;  put  them  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  with  the  liquor;  press 
them  very  lightly;  to  each  pint  of  the  liquor  put  a  ixmnd  of  sugar;  stir  it  until 
it  is  aU  dissolved,  then  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently,  until  by  cooling 
some  on  a  plate  you  find  it  a  good  jelly;  then  turn  it  into  pots  or  tumblers,  and 
when  cold«  secure  as  directed  for  jellies. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 
To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  one  pound  of  sugar.  Let  the  raspberries  be  freshly 
gathered,  quite  ripe,  picked  from  the  stalks;  put  them  into  a  large  jar  after 
breaking  the  fruit  a  little  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  place  this  jar,  covered,  in  a 
sauce-pan  of  boiling  water.  When  the  juice  is  weU  drawn,  which  will  be  in 
from  three-quarters  to  one  hour,  strain  the  fruit  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  or 
doth;  measure  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  allow  the  above  proportion  of  white 
sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  a  preserving-pan,  place  it  over  the  fire,  and 
boil  gently  until  the  jelly  thickens,  when  a  little  is  poured  on  a  plate;  carefully 
remove  all  the  scum  as  it  rises,  pour  the  jelly  into  small  pots,  cover  down,  and 
keep  in  a  dry  place.  This  jelly  answers  for  making  raspberry  cream,  and  for 
flavoring  various  sweet  dishes,  when,  in  winter,  the  fresh  fruit  is  not  obtainable. 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  385 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Select  apples  that  are  rather  tart  and  highly  flavored;  slice  them  without 
paring;  place  in  a  porcelain  preserving-kettle,  cover  with  water,  and  let  them 
cook  slowly  until  the  apples  look  red.  Pour  into  a  colander,  drain  ofif  the  juice, 
and  let  this  run  through  a  jelly-bag;  return  to  the  kettle,  which  must  be  care- 
fully washed,  and  boil  half  an  hour;  measure  it  and  allow  to  every  pint  of  juice 
•a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes. 

The  juice  of  apples,  boiled  in  shallow  vessels,  without  a  particle  of  sugar, 
makes  the  most  sparkling,  delicious  jelly  imaginable.  Red  apples  will  give  jelly 
the  color  and  clearness  of  claret,  while  that  from  hght  fruit  is  like  amber.  Take 
the  cider  just  as  it  is  made,  not  allowing  it  to  ferment  at  all,  and,  if  possible, 
boil  it  in  a  pan,  flat,  very  large,  and  shallow. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Mash  well  the  berries  so  as  to  remove  the  skins;  pour  all  into  a  preserving- 
Icettle,  and  cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes  to  extract  the  juice;  strain  through 
•a  colander,  and  then  through  a  flannel  jelly-bag,  keeping  as  hot  as  possible,  for 
if  not  allowed  to  cool  before  putting  again  on  the  stove  the  jelly  comes  much 
•stiflfer;  a  few  quince  seeds  boiled  with  the  berries  the  first  time  tend  to  stiffen 
it;  measure  the  juice,  allowing  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice,  and 
boil  fast  for  at  least  half  an  hour.  Try  a  little,  and  if  it  seems  done,  remove 
and  put  into  glasses. 

FLORIDA  ORANGE  JELLY. 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  two  Florida  oranges  and  two  lemons,  and  squeeze 
the  juice  into  a  porcelain-lined  preserving-kettle,  adding  the  juice  of  two  more 
oranges,  and  removing  all  the  seeds;  put  in  the  grated  rind  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar,  or  more  if  the  fruit  is  sour,  and  a  gill  of  water,  and  boil  these  ingre- 
dients together  until  a  rich  syrup  is  formed;  meantime,  dissolve  two  ounces  of 
gelatine  in  a  quart  of  warm  water,  stirring  it  over  the  fire  xmtil  it  is  entirely  dis- 
solved; then  add  the  syrup,  strain  the  jeUy,  and  cool  it  in  molds  wet  in  cold  water. 

CRAB-APPLE  JELLY. 

The  apples  should  be  juicy  and  ripe.  The  fruit  is  then  quartered,  the  black 
spots  in  the  cores  removed,  afterward  put  into  a  preserving-kettle  over  the  fire, 
with  a  teacupful  of  water  in  the  bottom  to  prevent  burning;  more  water  is  added 
as  it  evaporates  while  cooking.  When  boiled  to  a  pulp,  strain  the  apples  through 
a  coarse  flannel,  then  proceed  as  for  currant  jelly. 

25 


386  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

PEACH  JELLY. 
Pare  the  peaches,  take  out  the  stones,  then  slice  them;  add  to  them  about  a 
quarter  of  the  kernels.  Place  them  in  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Stir  them  often  until  the  fruit  is  well  cooked,  then  strain,  and  to  every  pint 
of  the  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  measure  again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pint  of  juice;  heat  the  sugar  very  hot,  and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled 
twenty  minutes;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  take  instantly  from  the  fire. 

ORANGE  SYRUP. 

Pare  the  oranges,  squeeze  and  strain  the  juice  from  the  pulp.  To  one  pint  of 
juice  allow  one  pound  and  three-quarters  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  sugar 
together,  boil  and  skim  it  until  it  is  cream;  then  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag> 
and  let  it  stand  until  it  becomes  cool,  then  put  in  bottles  and  cork  tight. 

Lemon  syrup  is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  that  you  scald  the  lemons^ 
and  squeeze  out  the  juice,  allowing  rather  more  sugar. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Allow  pound  for  pound.  Pare  half  the  oranges,  and  cut  the  rind  into  shreds. 
Boil  in  three  waters  until  tender,  and  set  aside.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  remaining 
oranges;  take  off,  and  throw  away  every  bit  of  the  thick  white  inner  skin; 
quarter  all  the  oranges  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Chop,  or  cut  them  into  small 
pieces;  drain  all  the  juice  that  will  come  away,  without  pressing  them,  over  the 
sugar;  heat  this,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  adding  a  very  littie  water, 
imless  the  oranges  are  very  juicy.  Boil  and  skim  five  or  six  minutes;  put  in 
the  boiled  shreds,  and  cook  ten  minutes;  then  the  chopped  fruit  and  grated  peeL 
and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  When  cold,  put  iato  smaU  jars,  ided  up  with 
bladder  or  paper  next  the  fruit,  cloths  dipped  in  wax  over  all.  A  nicer  way  still 
is  to  put  away  in  tumblers  with  self-adjusting  metal  tops.  Press  brandied  tissue 
I>aper  down  closely  to  the  fruit. 

LEMON  MARMALADE 

Is  made  as  you  would  prepare  orange — ^allowing  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar  to  a  poimd  of  the  fruit,  and  using  but  half  the  grated  peel. 

RAISINS.    (A  French  Marmalade.) 

This  recipe  is  particularly  valuable  at  seasons  when  fruit  is  scarce.  Take  six 
fine  large  cooking  apples,  peel  them,  put  them  over  a  slow  fire,  together  with  a 
wineglassful  of  Madeira  wine,  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  When  well  stewed,  split 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC.  387 

and  stone  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  and  put  them  to  stew  with  the 
apples,  and  enough  water  to  prevent  their  burning.  When  all  appears  well 
dissolved,  beat  it  through  a  strainer  bowl,  and  lastly  through  a  sieve.  Mold,  if 
you  like,  or  put  away  in  small  preserve  jars,  to  cut  in  thin  slices  for  the  orna- 
mentation of  pastry,  or  to  dish  up  for  eating  with  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

To  each  pound  of  fine,  and  not  too  ripe  berries,  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Put  them  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  stir  gently,  not  to  break 
up  the  fruit;  simmer  for  one-half  hour,  and  put  into  pots  air-tight.  An  excel- 
lent way  to  seal  jellies  and  jams  is  as  the  German  women  do:  Cut  round  covers 
from  writing  paper  a  half -inch  too  large  for  the  tops,  smear  the  inside  with  the^ 
unbeaten  white  of  an  egg,  tie  over  with  a  cord,  and  it  will  dry  quickly  and  be 
absolutely  preservative.  A  circular  i)aper  dipped  in  brandy,  and  laid  over  the 
toothsome  contents  before  covering,  will  prevent  any  dampness  from  affecting 
the  flavor.  I  have  removed  these  covers  heavy  with  mold,  to  find  the  preserve^ 
intact. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM. 

Pick  the  gooseberries  just  as  they  begin  to  turn.  Stem,  wash  and  weigh. 
To  four  pounds  of  fruit  add  half  a  teacupful  of  water;  boil  until  soft  and  add. 
four  pounds  of  sugar  and  boil  until  clear.  If  picked  at  the  right  stage  the  jam 
will  be  amber-colored  and  firm,  and  very  much  nicer  than  if  the  fruit  is  pre- 
served when  ripe. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES  OR  PEARS. 

Four  pounds  of  fruit,  four  pomids  of  sugar,  one  piat  of  best  white  brandy. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Let  this  come  to  a. 
boil;  put  the  fruit  iu  and  boil  five  minutes.  Having  removed  the  fruit  carefully, 
let  the  syrup  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well;  add  the  brandy, 
and  take  the  kettle  at  once  from  the  fire;  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and 
seal.  If,  after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the  fire,  a  reddish  liquor  oozes  from  it, 
drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup.  Put  up  in  glass  jars.  Peaches  and 
pears  should  be  peeled  for  brandying.  Plums  should  be  pricked  and  watched 
carefully  for  fear  of  bursting. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

To  five  or  six  pounds  of  fine  red  raspberries  (not  too  ripe)  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  the  finest  quality  of  white  sugar.  Mash  the  whole  well  in  a  preserving 
kettle;  add  about  one  quart  of  currant  juice  (a  Uttle  less  wiU  do),  and  boil  gently^ 


388  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

until  it  jellies  upon  a  cold  plate;  then  put  into  small  jars;  cover  with  brandied 
paper^  and  tie  a  thick  white  paper  over  them.  Keep  in  a  dark,  dry  and  cool 
place. 

Blackberry  or  strawberry  jam  is  made  the  same  way,  leaving  out  the  currant 
juice. 

A  NEW  WAY  OF  KEEPING  FRUIT. 

It  is  stated  that  experiments  have  been  made  in  keeping  fruit  in  jars  covered 
only  with  cotton  batting,  and  at  the  end  of  two  years  the  fruit  was  sound.  The 
following  directions  are  given  for  the  process:  Use  crocks,  stone  butter- jars  or 
any  other  convenient  dishes.  Prepare  and  cook  the  fruit  precisely  as  for  can- 
ning in  glass  jars;  fill  your  dishes  with  fruit  while  hot;  and  immediately  cover 
with  cotton  batting,  securely  tied  on.  Bemember  that  all  putrefaction  is  caused 
by  the  invisible  creatures  in  the  air.  Cooking  the  fruit  expels  all  these,  and  they 
cannot  pass  through  the  cotton  batting.  The  fruit  thus  protected  will  keep  an 
indefinite  period.  It  wiU  be  remembered  that  Tyndall  has  proved  that  the 
atmospheric  germs  cannot  pass  through  a  layer  of  cotton. 

MACEDOINES. 

Suspend  in  the  centre  of  the  jelly  mold  a  bunch  of  grapes,  cherries,  berries,  or 
<nirrants  on  their  stems,  sections  of  oranges,  pineapples,  or  brandied  fruits,  and 
pour  in  a  Uttle  jelly  when  quite  cold,  but  not  set.  It  makes  a  very  agreeable 
-effect.  By  a  httle  ingenuity  you  can  imbed  first  one  fruit  and  then  another, 
arranging  in  circles,  and  pour  a  Uttle  jelly  successively  over  each.  Do  not  re-heat 
the  jelly,  but  keep  it  in  a  warm  place,  while  the  mold  is  on  ice  and  the  first 
layers  are  hardening. 


Berries  and  all  ripe,  mellow  fruit  require  but  little  cooking,  only  long  enough 
for  the  sugar  to  penetrate.  Strew  sugar  over  them,  aUow  them  to  stand  a  few 
hours,  then  merely  scald  with  the  sugar;  half  to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  is 
considered  sufficient.  Harder  fruits  like  pears,  quinces,  etc.,  require  longer 
boiling. 

The  great  secret  of  canning  is  to  make  the  fruit  or  vegetable  perfectly  air- 
tight.    It  must  be  put  up  boiling  hot,  and  the  vessel  filled  to  the  brim. 

Have  your  jars  conveniently  placed  near  your  boiling  fruit,  in  a  tin  pan  of 
hot  water  on  the  stove,  roll  them  in  the  hot  water,  then  fill  immediately  with 
the  hot,  scalding  fruit,  fill  to  the  top,  and  seal  quickly  with  the  tops,  which 
should  also  be  heated;  occasionally  screw  down  the  tops  tighter,  as  the  fruit 
shrinks  as  it  cools,  and  the  glass  contracts,  and  allows  the  air  to  enter  the  cans. 
They  must  be  perfectly  air-tight.    The  jars  to  be  kept  in  a  dark,  cool,  dry  place. 

Use  glass  jars  for  fruit  always,  and  the  fruit  should  be  cooked  in  a  porcelain 
or  granite-iron  kettle.  If  you  are  obliged  to  use  common  large-mouthed  bottles 
with  corks,  steam  the  corks  and  pare  them  to  a  close  fit,  driving  them  in  with  a 
mallet.  Use  the  following  wax  for  sealing:  one  pound  of  resin,  three  ounces  of 
beeswax,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  tallow.  Use  a  brush  in  covering  the  corks, 
and  as  they  cool,  dip  the  mouth  into  the  melted  wax.  Place  in  a  basin  of  cool 
water.  Pack  in  a  cool,  dark,  and  dry  cellar.  After  one  week,  examine  for 
flaws,  cracks  or  signs  of  ferment. 

The  rubber  rings  used  to  assist  in  keeping  the  air  from  the  fruit  cans  some  • 
times  become  so  dry  and  brittle  as  to  be  almost  useless.  They  can  be  restored  to 
normal  condition  usually  by  letting  them  lie  in  water  in  which  you  have  put  a 
little  ammonia.  Mix  in  this  proportion:  One  part  of  ammonia  and  two  parts 
water.  Sometimes  they  do  not  need  to  lie  in  this  more  than  five  minutes,  but 
frequently  a  half -hour  is  needed  to  restore  their  elasticity. 


390  CANNED  FRUITS. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

To  one  pound  of  peaches  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  to  six  pounds  of  sugar^ 
add  half  a  tumbler  of  water;  put  in  the  kettle  a  layer  of  sugar  and  one  of  peaches 
until  the  whole  of  both  are  in.  Wash  about  eight  peach-leaves,  tie  them  up 
and  put  into  the  kettle,  remembering  to  take  them  out  when  you  begin  to  fill  up 
the  jars.  Let  the  sugared  fruit  remain  on  the  range,  but  away  from  the  fire, 
imtil  upon  tipping  the  vessel  to  one  side  you  can  see  some  liquid;  then  fill  the 
jars,  taking  them  out  of  hot  water  into  which  they  were  put  when  cold,  remain- 
ing untn  it  was  made  to  boil  around  them.  In  this  way  you  will  find  out  if  the 
glass  has  been  properly  annealed;  for  we  consider  glass  jars  with  stoppers  screw- 
ing down  upon  India-rubber  rings  as  the  best  for  canning  fruit  in  families. 
They  should  be  kept  in  a  dark  closet;  and  although  somewhat  more  expensive 
than  tin  in  the  first  instance,  are  much  nicer,  and  keep  for  years  with  careful 
usage. 

Fruit  must  be  of  fine  fiavor,  and  rtpe,  though  not  softy  to  make  nice  canned 
fruit. 

Peaches  should  be  thrown  into  cold  water  as  they  are  peeled,  to  prevent  a 
yellowish  crust. 

CANNED  GRAPES. 

There  is  no  fruit  so  difficult  to  can  nicely  as  the  grape;  by  observing  the  fol- 
lowing instructions  you  will  find  the  grapes  rich  and  tender  a  year  from  putting 
up.  Squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  skin,  as  the  seeds  are  objectionable;  boil  the 
pulp  until  the  seeds  begin  to  loosen,  in  one  kettle,  having  the  skins  boHing  in  a 
little  water,  hard,  in  another  kettle,  as  they  are  tough.  When  the  pulp  seems 
tender,  put  it  through  the  sieve;  then  add  the  skins,  if  tender,  with  the  water 
they  boil  in,  if  not  too  much.  We  use  a  large  coffee-cupful  of  sugar  for  a  quart 
can;  boil  until  thick,  and  can  in  the  usual  way. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES. 

After  the  berries  are  picked  over,  let  as  many  as  can  be  put  carefully  in  the 
preserve  kettle  at  once  be  placed  on  a  platter.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours,  till  the 
juice  is  drawn  from  them;  pour  it  into  the  kettle  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
remove  the  scum  which  rises;  then  put  in  the  berries  very  carefully.  As  soon 
as  they  come  thoroughly  to  a  boil  put  them  in  warm  jars,  and  seal  while  boiling 
hot. 


CANNED  FRUITS.  39I 

TO  CAN  QUINCES. 

Out  the  quinces  into  thin  slices  like  apples  for  pies.  To  one  quart  jarful  of 
quince,  take  a  coffee-saucer  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  a  coffee-cupful  of  water; 
put  the  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  put  in  the  quinces;  have 
ready  the  jars  with  their  fastenings,  stand  the  jars  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on 
the  stove,  and  when  the  quince  is  clear  and  tender  put  rapidly  into  the  jars,  fruit 
and  syrup  together.  The  jars  must  be  filled  so  that  the  syrup  overfiows,  and 
fastened  up  tight  as  quickly  as  possible. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 

For  six  pounds  of  fruit,  when  cut  and  ready  to  can,  make  syrup  with  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  and  nearly  three  pints  of  water;  boil  syrup  five 
minutes  and  skim  or  strain  if  necessary;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  up; 
have  cans  hot,  fill  and  shut  up  as  soon  as  possible.  Use  the  best  white  sugar. 
As  the  cans  cool,  keep  tightening  them  up.    Cut  the  fruit  half  an  inch  thick. 

CANNED  FRUIT  JUICES. 

Canned  fruit  juices  are  an  excellent  substitute  for  brandy  or  wine  in  all  pud- 
dings and  sauces,  etc. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  can  the  pure  juices  of  fruit  in  the  summer  time,  putting  it 
by  for  this  purpose. 

Select  clean  ripe  fruit,  press  out  the  juice  and  strain  it  through  a  flannel  cloth. 
To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  cupful  of  white  granulated  sugar.  Put  it  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point,  and  bottle  while  hot  in  small 
bottles.  It  must  be  sealed  very  tight  while  it  is  hot.  WiU  keep  a  long  time,  the 
same  as  canned  fruit. 

CANNED  TOMATOES. 

Canning  tomatoes  is  quite  a  simple  process.  A  large  or  small  quantity  may 
be  done  at  a  time,  and  they  should  be  put  in  glass  jars  in  preference  to  those  of 
tin,  which  are  apt  to  injure  the  flavor.  Very  ripe  tomatoes  are  the  best  for  the 
purpose.  They  are  first  put  into  a  large  pan  and  covered  with  boiling  water. 
This  loosens  the  skin,  which  is  easily  removed,  and  the  tomatoes  are  then  put 
into  the  preserving  kettle,  set  over  a  moderate  fire  without  the  addition  of  water 
or  any  seasoning,  and  brought  to  a  boil.  After  boiling  slowly  one -half  hour, 
they  are  put  into  the  jars  while  boiling  hot  and  sealed  tightly.  They  will  keep 
two  or  three  years  in  this  way.  The  jars  should  be  filled  to  the  brim  to  prev^it 
air  from  getting  in,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark  closet. 


392  CANNED  FRUITS. 

TO  CAN  CORN. 

Split  the  kernels  lengthwise  with  a  knife,  then  scrape  with  the  back  of  the 
knife,  thus  leaving  the  hulls  upon  the  cob.  Fill  cans  full  of  cut  com,  pressing 
it  in  very  hard.  To  press  the  com  in  the  can,  use  the  small  end  of  a  potato 
masher,  as  this  will  enter  the  can  easily.  It  will  take  from  ten  to  a  dozen  large 
ears  of  com  to  fill  a  one-quart  can.  When  the  cans  are  full,  screw  cover  on  with 
thumb  and  first  finger;  this  will  be  tight  enough,  then  place  a  cloth  in  the  bottom 
of  a  wash  boiler  to  prevent  breakage.  On  this  put  a  layer  of  cans  inany  posi- 
tion you  prefer,  over  the  cans  put  a  layer  of  cloth,  then  a  layer  of  cans.  Fill  the 
boUer  in  this  manner,  then  cover  the  cans  well  with  cold  water,  place  the  boiler 
on  the  fire,  and  hoU  three  hours  without  ceasing.  On  steady  boiling,  depends 
much  of  your  success.  After  boiling  three  hours,  lift  the  boiler  from  the  fire, 
let  the  water  cool,  then  take  the  cans  from  the  boiler  and  tighten,  let  them 
remain  until  cold,  then  tighten  again.  Wrap  each  can  in  brown  paper  to 
exclude  the  Ught,  and  keep  in  a  cool  dry  cellar  and  be  very  sure  the  rubber  rings 
are  not  hardened  by  use.  The  rings  should  be  renewed  every  two  years.  I 
wordd  advise  the  beginner  to  use  new  rings  entirely,  for  poor  rings  cause  the 
loss  of  canned  fruit  and  vegetables  in  many  cases.  You  will  observe  that  in 
canning  com  the  cans  are  not  wrapped  in  a  cloth  nor  heated;  merely  filled  with 
the  cut  com.  The  com  in  the  cans  will  shrink  considerably  in  boiling,  but  on 
no  account  open  them  after  canning. 

TO  CAN  PEAS. 

Fill  the  can  full  of  peas,  shake  the  can  so  they  can  be  filled  weU.  You  cannot 
press  the  peas  in  the  can  as  you  did  the  com,  but  by  shaking  the  cans  they  may 
be  filled  quite  full.  Pour  into  the  cans  enough  cold  water  to  fill  to  overflowing, 
then  screw  the  cover  tight  as  you  can  with  your  thumb  and  first  finger  and 
proceed  exactly  as  in  canning  com. 

String  beans  are  cut  as  for  cooking  and  canned  in  the  same  manner.    No 

seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  or  sugar  should  be  added. 

— Mary  Ourrier  Parsons. 

CANNED  PLUMS. 
To  every  pound  of  plums  allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar 
and  plums  alternately  into  the  preserving-kettle,  first  pricking  the  plimis  to  pre- 
vent their  breaking.  Let  them  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  an  hour  or 
two,  then  put  them  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  allow  to  come  to  a  boil;  skim  and 
pour  at  once  into  jars,  running  a  silver  spoon  handle  around  the  inside  of  the  jar 
to  break  the  air-bubbles;  cover  and  screw  down  the  tops. 


CANNED  FRUITS.  395. 

CANNED  MINCE-MEAT. 
Mince-meat  for  pies  can  be  preserved  for  years  if  canned  the  same  as  frziit 
while  Tioty  and  put  into  glass  jars  and  sealed  perfectly  tight,  and  set  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  One  glass  quart  jar  will  hold  enough  to  make  two  ordinary -sized 
pies,  and  in  this  way  "  mince  pies  '*  can  be  had  in  the  middle  of  summer  as  weU 
as  in  winter,  and  if  the  cans  are  sealed  properly,  the  meat  will  be  just  as  fine 
when  opened  as  when  first  canned. 

CANNED  BOILED  CIDER. 

Boiled  cider,  in  our  grandmothers'  time,  was  indispensable  to  the  making  of 
a  good  "mince  pie,"  adding  the  proper  flavor  and  richness,  which  cannot  be 
substituted  by  any  other  ingredient,  and  a  gill  of  which  being  added  to  a  rule  of 
"fruit  cake"  makes  it  more  moist,  keeps  longer,  and  is  far  superior  to  fruit 
cake  made  without  it.  Boiled  cider  is  an  article  rarely  found  in  the  market, 
now-a-days,  but  can  be  made  by  any  one,  with  but  Uttle  trouble  and  expense, 
using  sweet  cider,  shortly  after  it  is  made,  and  before  fermentation  takes  place. 
Place  five  quarts  of  sweet  cider  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  over  the  fire,  boil  it 
slowly  until  reduced  to  one  quart,  carefully  watching  it  that  it  does  not  burn; 
turn  into  glass  jars  while  hot,  and  seal  tightly,  the  same  aa  canned  fruit.  It  is. 
then  ready  to  use  any  time  of  the  year. 

CANNED  PUMPKIN. 

Pumpkins  or  squash  canned  are  far  more  convenient  for  ready  use  than^ 
those  dried  in  the  old-fashioned  way. 

Cut  up  pumpkin  or  squash  into  small  pieces,  first  cutting  off  the  peel;  stew 
them  until  tender,  add  no  seasoning;  then  mash  them  very  fine  with  a  potato- 
masher.  Have  ready  yoxu:  cans,  made  hot,  and  then  fill  them  with  the  hot 
pumpkin  or  squash,  seal  tight;  place  in  a  dark,  cool  closet. 

PEACH  BUTTER. 

Pare  ripe  peaches  and  put  them  in  a  preserving-kettle,  with  sufficient  water 
to  boil  them  soft;  then  sift  through  a  colander,  removing  the  stones.  To  each 
quart  of  peach  put  one  and  one-half  poimd  of  sugar,  and  boil  very  slowly  one 
hour.  Stir  often,  and  do  not  let  them  bum.  Put  in  stone  or  glass  jars,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 


.394  CANNED  FRUITS. 

PEACHES  DRIED  WITH  SUGAR. 

Peel  yellow  peaches,  cut  them  from  the  stone  in  one  piece;  allow  two  pomids 
of  sugar  to  six  pounds  of  fruit;  make  a  syrup  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  water;  put  in  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  let  them  cook 
gently  until  quite  dear.  Take  them  up  carefully  on  a  dish  and  set  them  in  the 
6un  to  dry.  Strew  powdered  sugar  over  them  on  all  sides,  a  little  at  a  time;  if 
any  syrup  is  left,  remove  to  fresh  dishes.  When  they  are  quite  dry,  lay  them 
lightly  in  a  jar  with  a  little  sugar  sifted  between  the  layers. 


••» 


,  eNgX»eX5)^t>  J 


RED  OR  PINK  COLORING. 

Take  two  cents'  worth  of  cochineal.  Lay  it  on  a  flat  plate,  and  bruise  it  with 
the  blade  of  a  knife.  Put  it  into  half  a  teacupfid  of  alcohol.  Let  it  stand  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  filter  it  through  fine  muslin.  Always  ready  for 
immediate  use.    Cork  the  bottle  tight. 

Strawberry  or  cranberry  juice  makes  a  fine  coloring  for  frosting  sweet  pud- 
dings and  confectionery. 

DEEP  RED  COLORING, 

Take  twenty  grains  of  cochineal,  and  fifteen  grains  of  cream  of  tartar  finely 
powdered;  add  to  them  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  cherry  stone,  and  boil  them 
with  a  gill  of  soft  water,  in  an  earthen  vessel,  slowly,  for  half  an  hour.  Then 
strain  it  through  muslin,  and  keep  it  tightly  corked  in  a  phial.  If  a  little  alcohol 
is  added,  it  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

YELLOW  COLORING. 

Take  a  httle  saffron,  put  it  into  an  earthen  vessel  with  a  very  small  quantity 
of  cold,  soft  water,  and  let  it  steep  till  the  color  of  the  infusion  is  a  bright  yellow. 
Then  strain  it,  add  half  alcohol  to  it.  To  color  fruit  yellow,  boil  the  fruit  with 
fresh  skin  lemons  in  water  to  cover  them  until  it  is  tender;  then  take  it  up, 
spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  finish  as  may  be  directed. 

To  color  idng,  put  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon  or  orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag, 
squeezing  a  little  juice  ttirough  it,  then  mixing  with  the  sugar. 

GREEN  COLORING. 
Take  fresh  spinach  or  beet  leaves,  and  poimd  them  in  a  marble  mortar.    If 
you  want  it  for  inmiediate  use,  take  off  the  green  froth  as  it  rises,  and  mix  it 
with  the  article  you  intend  to  color.    If  you  wish  to  keep  it  a  few  days,  take 


396  COLORING  FOR  FRUIT,  ETC. 

the  juice  when  you  have  pressed  out  a  teacupful,  and  adding  to  it  a  piece  of 
alum  the  size  of  a  pea>  give  it  a  boil  in  a  sauce-pan.  Or  make  the  juice  very 
strong  and  add  a  quart  of  alcohol.    Bottle  it  air-tight. 

SUGAR  GRAINS. 

These  are  made  by  pounding  white  lump  sugar  in  a  mortar  and  shalring  it 
through  sieves  of  different  degrees  of  coarseness,  thus  accumulating  grains  of 
different  sizes.    They  are  used  in  ornamenting  cake. 

SUGAR  GRAINS,  COLORED. 

Stir  a  little  coloring — ^as  the  essence  of  spinach,  or  prepared  cochineal,  or  liquid 
carmine,  or  indigo,  rouge,  saffron,  etc., — ^into  the  sugar  grains  made  as  above,  un- 
til each  grain  is  stained,  then  spread  them  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  dry  them  in 
a  warm  place.    They  are  used  in  ornamenting  cake. 

CARAMEL  OR  BURNT  SUGAR. 

Put  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  teaspoonf uls  of  water  in  a  sauce-pan  on  the 
fire;  stir  constantly  until  it  is  quite  a  dark  color,  then  add  a  half  cupful  of 
water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  when  cold,  bottle. 

For  coloring  soups,  sauces  or  gravies. 

TO  CLARIFY  JELLY. 

The  white  of  eggs  is,  perhaps,  the  best .  substance  that  can  be  employed  in 
clarifying  jeUy,  as  well  as  some  other  fluids,  for  the  reason  that  when  albumen 
(and  the  white  of  eggs  is  nearly  pure  albumen)  is  put  into  a  liquid  that  is  muddy, 
from  substances  suspended  in  it,  on  boiling  the  liquid  the  albxunen  coagulates  in 
a  flocculent  manner,  and,  entangling  with  the  impurities,  rises  with  them  to  the^ 
surface  as  a  scum,  or  sinks  to  the  bottom,  according  to  their  weight. 


In  the  making  of  confections,  the  best  granulated  or  loaf  sugar  should  be 
used.  (Beware  of  glucose  mixed  with  sugar.)  Sugar  is  boiled  more  or  less, 
according  to  the  kind  of  candy  to  be  made,  and  it  is  necessary  to  understand  the 
proper  degree  of  sugar  boiling  to  operate  it  successfully. 

Occasionally  sugar  made  into  candies,  *'  creams  "  or  syrups,  will  need  clarify- 
ing. The  process  is  as  follows:  Beat  up  weU  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  cupful 
of  cold  water  and  pour  it  into  a  very  clean  iron  or  thick  new  tin  sauce-pan,  then 
put  into  the  pan  four  cupfuls  of  sugar,  mixed  with  a  cupful  of  warm  water. 
Put  on  the  stove,  and  heat  moderately  until  the  scum  rises.  Eemove  the  pan, 
and  skim  off  the  top,  then  place  on  the  fire  again  until  the  scum  rises  again. 
Then  remove  as  before,  and  so  continue  until  no  scum  rises. 

This  recipe  is  for  good  brown  or  yellowish  sugar;  for  soft,  white  sugars,  half 
the  white  of  an  egg  wiU  do,  and  for  refined  or  loaf  sugar  a  quarter  wiU  do. 

The  quantities  of  sugar  and  water  are  the  same  in  all  cases.  Loaf  sugar  will 
generally  do  for  all  candy-making  without  further  clarification.  Brown  or 
yellow  sugars  are  used  for  caramels,  dark-colored  cocoanut,  taffy,  and  pulled 
molasses  candies  generally. 

Havana  is  the  cheapest  grade  of  white  sugai*  and  a  shade  or  two  lighter  than 
the  brown. 

Confectioners'  A  is  superior  in  color  and  grain  to  the  Jlavana.  It  is  a  cen- 
trifugal sugar^that  is,  it  is  not  re-boiled  to  procure  its  white  color,  but  is 
moistened  with  water  and  then  put  into  rapidly  revolving  cylinders.  The  un- 
crystalized  syrup  or  molasses  is  whirled  out  of  it,  and  the  sugar  comes  out  with 
a  dry,  white  grain. 

Icing  or  Powdered  Sugars.  This  is  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Icing  can  only  be 
made  with  powdered  sugar,  which  is  produced  by  grinding  or  crushing  loaf,  sugar 
as  fine  as  flour  nearly. 

Granulated  Sugar.    This  is  a  coarse-grained  sugar,  generally  very  clean  and 


398  CONFECTIONERY. 

gparUing,  and  fit  for  use  as  a  colored  sugar  in  crystalized  goods^  and  other 
superior  uses. 

This  same  syrup  answers  for  most  candies,  and  should  be  boiled  to  such  a 
degree^  that  when  a  fork  or  splinter  is  dipped  into  it  the  liquid  will  run  off  and 
form  a  thick  drop  on  the  end,  and  long,  silk-like  threads  hang  from  them  when 
exposed  to  the  air.  The  syrup  nearer  to  be  stirred  while  hot,  or  else  it  will  grain, 
but  if  intended  for  soft,  French  candies,  should  be  remored,  and,  when  nearly 
cold,  stirred  to  a  cream.  For  hard,  brittle  candies,  the  syrup  should  be  boiled 
until,  when  a  Uttle  is  dropped  in  cold  water,  it  will  crack  and  break  when  biting  it. 

The  hands  should  be  buttered  when  li^nillmg  it,  or  it  will  stick  to  them. 

The  top  of  the  inside  of  the  dish  that  the  sugar  or  molasses  is  to  be  cooked  in, 
should  be  buttered  a  few  inches  around  the  inside;  it  prevents  the  syrup  from 
rising  and  swelling  any  higher  than  where  it  reaches  the  buttered  edge. 

For  common  crack  candies,  the  sugar  can  be  kept  from  graining  by  adding 
a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  or  cream  tartar. 

Colorings  for  candies  should  bid  harmless,  and  those  used  for  fruit  and  con- 
fectionery, on  page  395,  will  be  most  suitable. 

Essences  and  extracts  should  be  bought  at  the  druggist's,  not  the  poor  kind 
usually  sold  at  the  grocer's. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CANDY. 

Put  four  cupfuls  of  white  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  into  a  bright  tin 
pan  on  the  range,  and  let  it  boil  without  stirring  for  ten  minutes.  If  it  looks 
somewhat  thick,  test  it  by  letting  some  drop  from  the  spoon,  and  if  it  threads, 
remove  the  pan  to  the  table.  Take  out  a  small  spoonful,  and  rub  it  against  the 
side  of  a  cake-bowl;  if  it  becomes  creamy,  and  wiU  roll  into  a  ball  between  the 
fingers,  pour  the  whole  into  the  bowl.  When  cool  enough  to  bear  your  finger  in 
it,  take  it  in  your  lap,  stir  or  beat  it  with  a  large  spoon,  or  pudding-stick.  It 
will  soon  begin  to  look  like  cream,  and  then  grow  stiff er  until  you  find  it  neces- 
sary to  take  your  hands  and  work  it  like  bread  dough.  If  it  is  not  boiled  enough 
to  cream,  set  it  back  upon  the  range,  and  let  it  remain  one  or  two  minutes,  or 
as  long  as  is  necessary,  taking  care  not  to  cook  it  too  much.  Add  the  flavoring 
as  soon  as  it  begins  to  cool.  This  is  the  foundation  of  all  French  creams.  It 
can  be  made  into  rolls,  and  sliced  off,  or  packed  in  plates  and  cut  into  small 
cubes,  or  made  into  any  shape  imitating  French  candies.  A  pretty  form  is 
made  by  coloring  some  of  the  cream  pink,  taking  a  piece  about  as  large  as  a 
hazel  nut,  and  crowding  an  almond  meat  half  way  into  one  side,  till  it  looks 
like  a  bursting  kernel    In  working,  should  the  cream  get  too  cold,  warm  it. 


CONFECTIONERY.  399 

To  be  successful  in  maMng  this  cream,  several  points  are  to  be  remembered; 
when  the  boiled  sugar  is  cool  enough  to  beat,  if  it  looks  rough  and  has  turned  to 
sugar  it  is  because  it  has  been  boiled  too  much^  or  has  been  stirred.  U,  after  it 
is  beaten,  it  does  not  look  like  lard  or  thick  cream,  and  is  sandy  or  sugary 
instead,  it  is  because  you  did  not  let  it  get  cool  enough  before  beating. 

It  is  not  boiled  enough  if  it  does  not  harden  so  as  to  work  like  dough,  and 
should  not  stick  to  the  hands;  in  this  case  put  it  back  into  the  pan  with  an 
ounce  of  hot  water,  and  cook  over  just  enough,  by  testing  in  water  as  above. 
After  it  is  turned  into  the  bowl  to  cool,  it  should  look  clear  as  jeUy.  Practice 
and  patience  will  make  perfect. 

FRUIT  CREAMS. 

Add.  to  "French  Cream/'  raisins,  currants,  figs,  a  little  citron,  chopped  and 
mixed  thoroughly  through  the  cream  while  quite  warm.  Make  into  bars  or  flat 
cakes. 

WALNUT  CREAMS. 

Take  a  piece  of  "French  Cream"  the  size  of  a  walnut.     Having  cracked 
some  Enghsh  walnuts,  using  care  not  to  break  the  meats,  place  one-half  of  each  - 
nut  upon  each  side  of  the  ball,  pressing  them  into  the  ball. 

Walnut  creams  can  be  made  by  another  method :  Fust  take  a  piece  of  '  *  French 
Cream,"  put  it  into  a  cup,  and  setting  the  cup  into  a  vessel  of  boiling  water, 
heating  it  until  it  turns  like  thick  cream;  drop  the  walnut  meats  into  it,  one  at 
a  time,  taking  it  out  on  the  end  of  a  fork,  and  placing  it  on  buttered  paper;  con- 
tinue to  dip  them  until  aU  are  used,  then  go  over  again,  giving  them  a  second 
coat  of  candy.    They  look  nicely  colored  pink,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Use  "French  Cream,"  and  form  it  into  small  cone-shaped  balls  with  the 
fingers.  Lay  them  upon  paper  to  harden  imtil  all  are  formed.  Melt  one  cake 
of  bakers'  chocolate  in  an  earthen  dish  or  small  basin;  by  setting  it  in  the  oven 
it  will  soon  melt;  do  not  let  it  cook,  but  it  must  be  kept  hot. 

Take  the  balls  of  cream,  one  at  a  time,  on  the  tines  of  a  fork,  pour  the  melted 
chocolate  over  them  with  a  teaspoon,  and  when  well  covered,  slip  them  from  the 
fork  upon  oiled  paper. 

COCOANUT  CREAMS. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cocoanut  and  half  as  much  "French 
candy; "  work  them  both  together  with  your  hand  till  the  cocoanut  is  aU  well 
mixed  in  it.    K  you  choose,  you  can  add  a  drop  of  vanilla.    If  too  soft  to  work 


400  CONFECTIONERY. 

into  balls,  add  confectioners'  sugar  to  stiffen;  make  into  balls  the  size  of  hazel- 
nuts, and  dip  twice,  as  in  the  foregoing  recipes,  flavoring  the  melted  ^^  French 
Cream  "  with  vanilla. 

VARIEGATED  CREAMS. 

Make  the  '^French  Cream''  recipe,  and  divide  into  three  parts,  leaving  one  part 
white,  color  one  pink  with  cochineal  syrup,  and  the  third  part  color  brown  with 
chocolate,  which  is  done  by  just  letting  the  cream  soften  and  stirring  in  a  httle 
finely  grated  chocolate.  The  pink  is  colored  by  dropping  on  a  few  drops  of 
cochineal  syrup  while  the  cream  is  warm,  and  beating  it  in.  Take  the  white 
cream,  make  a  flat  ball  of  it,  and  lay  it  upon  a  buttered  dish,  and  pat  it  out  flat 
until  about  half  an  inch  thick.  If  it  does  not  work  easily,  dip  the  hand  in  alco- 
hol. Take  the  pink  cream,  work  in  the  same  way  as  the  white  and  lay  it  upon 
the  white;  then  the  chocolate  in  the  same  manner,  and  lay  upon  the  pink,  press- 
ing all  together.  Trim  the  edges  off  smooth,  leaving  it  in  a  nice,  square  cake, 
then  cut  into  slices  or  small  cubes,  as  you  prefer.  It  is  necessary  to  work  it  all 
up  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

RASPBERRY  CREAMS- 

Stir  enough  confectioners'  sugar  into  a  teaspoonful  of  raspberry  jam  to  form 
a  thick  paste;  roll  it  into  balls  between  the  palms  of  your  hands.  Put  a  lump  of 
"  French  Cream  "  into  a  teacup,  and  set  it  into  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
it  until  it  has  melted;  then  drop  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  coloring  to  make  it  a 
pale  pink,  or  a  few  drops  of  raspberry  juice,  being  careful  not  to  add  enough  to 
prevent  its  hardening.  Now  dip  these  little  balls  into  the  sugar  cream,  giving 
them  two  coats.     Lay  aside  to  harden. 

Eemember  to  heep  stirring  the  melted  cream,  or  if  not  it  will  turn  hook  to 
clear  syrup. 

NUT  CREAMS. 

Chop  almonds,  hickory  nuts,  butternuts  or  English  walnuts  quite  fine.  Make 
the  "  French  Cream,"  and  before  adding  all  the  sugar,  while  the  cream  is  quite 
soft,  stir  into  it  the  nuts,  and  then  form  into  balls,  bars  or  squares.  Several 
kinds  of  nuts  may  be  mixed  together. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CREAMS. 

Grate  fine  maple  sugar  and  mix  in  quantity  to  suit  the  taste,  with  "  French 
Cream; "  make  any  shape  desired.  Walnut  creams  are  sometimes  made  with 
maple  sugar  and  are  very  fine. 


CONFECTIONER  V.  40 1 

STICK  CANDY. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of 
vinegar,  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one  small  tablespoonful  of 
glycerine.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  rose  or  lemon.  Boil  all  except  the  flavoring, 
without  stirring,  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour,  or  imtil  crisp  when  dropped 
in  water.  Just  before  pouring  upon  greased  platters  to  cool,  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  After  pouring  upon  platters  to  cool,  pour  two  teaspoonf uls  of 
flavoring  over  the  top.  When  partly  cool,  pull  it  until  very  white.  Draw  it 
into  sticks  the  size  you  wish,  and  cut  ofl^  with  shears  into  sticks  or  kiss  shaped 
drops.    It  may  be  colored  if  desired.    (See  page  395,  for  coloring.) 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One  cupful  of  grated  chocolate,  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
West  India  molasses,  one  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
boil  until  thick,  almost  brittle,  stirring  constantly.  Turn  it  out  on  to  buttered 
plates,  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen,  mark  it  in  smaU  squares  so  that  it  will 
break  easily  when  cold.    Some  like  it  flavored  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vaniUa. 

GRILLED  ALMONDS. 

These  are  a  very  dehcious  candy  seldom  met  with  out  of  France.  They  are 
rather  more  trouble  to  make  than  other  kinds,  but  well  repay  it  from  their  novel 
flavor.  Blanch  a  cupful  of  almonds;  dry  them  thoroughly.  Boil  a  cupful  of 
sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  water  till  it  **  hairs,"  then  throw  in  the 
almonds;  let  them  ifry,  as  it  were,  in  this  syrup,  stirring  them  occasionally;  they 
will  turn  a  faint  yeUow  brown  before  the  sugar  changes  color;  do  not  wait  an 
instant  once  this  change  of  color  begins,  or  they  will  lose  flavor;  remove  them 
from  the  fire,  and  stir  them  until  the  syrup  has  turned  back  to  sugar  and  clings 
irregularly  to  the  nuts. 

These  are  grilled  almonds.  You  will  find  them  delicious,  as  they  are  to  alter- 
nate at  dinner  with  the  salted  almonds  now  so  fashionable. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  crushed  fine,  and  just  moistened  with  boiling  water, 
then  boiled  five  minutes;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  cream  of  tartar  the 
size  of  a  pea;  mix  well  and  add  four  or  five  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint.  Beat 
briskly  until  the  mixture  whitens,  then  drop  quickly  upon  white  paper.  Have 
the  cream  of  tartar  and  oil  of  peppermint  measured  while  the  sugar  is  boiling. 
If  it  sugars  before  it  is  all  dropped,  add  a  little  water  and  boil  a  minute  or  two. 

25 


402  CONFECTIONERY. 

CURRANT  DROPS. 

Use  carraiit- juice,  instead  of  water,  to  moisten  a  quantity  of  sugar.  Put  it 
in  a  pan  and  heat,  stirring  constantly;  be  sure  not  to  let  it  boil;  then  mi:;^  a  very 
little  more  sugar,  let  it  warm  with  the  rest  a  moment;  then,  with  a  smooth  sticky 
drop  on  paper. 

LEMON  DROPS. 
Upon  a  ooflfee-cupful  of  finely  powdered  sugar,  pour  jusb  enough  lemon-juice 
to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  it  to  the  consistency  of  thick  syrup,  and  so  that  it  appears 
brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.    Drop  this  on  buttered  plates  in  drops;  set 
away  to  cool  and  harden. 

NUT  MOLASSES  CANDY. 
When  making  molasses  candy,  add  any  kind  of  nuts  you  fancy;  put  them  in 
after  the  syrup  has  thickened,  and  is  ready  to  take  from  the  fire;  pour  out  on 
buttered  tins.    Mark  it  off  in  squares  before  it  gets  too  cool.    Peanuts  should  be 
fresh  roasted  and  then  tossed  in  a  sieve,  to  free  them  of  their  inner  skins. 

SUGAR  NUT  CANDY. 

Three  pounds  of  white  sugar;  half  a  pint  of  water;  half  a  pint  of  vinegar;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  one  pound  of  hickory-nut  kernels.  Put  the  sugar, 
butter,  vinegar  and  water  together  into  a  thick  sauce-pan.  When  it  begins  to 
thicken,  add  the  nuts.  To  test  it,  take  up  a  very  small  quantity  as  quickly  as 
possible  directly  from  the  centre,  taking  care  not  to  disturb  it  any  more  than  is 
necessary.  Drop  it  into  cold  water,  and  remove  from  the  fire  the  moment  the 
little  i>articles  are  brittle.  Pour  into  buttered  plates.  Use  any  nuts  with  this 
recipe. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

One  cocoanut,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  sugar  and 
milk  of  cocoanut  together,  heat  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  then  boil  five 
minutes;  add  cocoanut  (finely  grated),  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  stir  constantly 
to  keep  from  burning.  Pour  on  buttered  plates,  cut  in  squares.  WiU  take  about 
two  days  to  harden.    Use  prepared  cocoanut  when  other  cannot  be  had. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

Three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  water,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar, 
or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  eight  drops 
of  extract  of  lemon.  Boil  without  stirring^  till  it  will  snap  and  break.  Just 
before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  pour  into 


CONFECTIONERY.  403 

well-buttered  biscuit  tins,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.     Mark  off  into  inch 
squares  when  partly  cold. 

EVERTON  TAFFY,  OR  BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

Two  cupf uls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  dark  molasses,  one  cupful  of  cold  butter, 
grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire  imtil  it  hardens  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Pour  thinly  into  tins  well-buttered,  and  mark  into  little  inch 
squares,  before  it  cools. 

MAPLE  WALNUTS. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  enough  powdered  sugar  to 
make  it  like  hard  frosting,  dip  the  walnut  meats  (which  you  have  taken  care 
to  remove  from  the  shells  without  breaking)  in  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  for  two 
or  three  minutes  two  tablespoonfuls  of  maple  sugar  in  one  of  water,  or  in  this 
proportion.  Press  some  of  the  hard  frosting  between  the  two  halves  of  the 
walnut,  and  let  it  harden.  Dates  may  be  prepared  in  this  way,  and  butternuts 
and  English  walnuts  also. 

POP-CORN  CANDY.    No.  i. 

Put  into  an  iron  kettle  one  tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  and  one  cupful  of  white  sugar;  boil  until  ready  to  candy,  then  throw  in 
three  quarts  nicely  popped  com;  stir  vigorously  until  the  sugar  is  evenly  dis- 
tributed over  the  com;  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  and  stir  imtil  it  cools  a  little, 
and  in  this  way  you  may  have  each  kernel  separate  and  aU  coated  with  the 
sugar.  Of  course  it  must  have  your  undivided  attention  from  the  first,  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  Almonds,  English  walnuts,  or,  in  fact,  any  nuts  are  delicious 
prepared  in  this  way. 

POP-CORN  CANDY,    No.  2. 

Having  popped  your  com,  salt  it  and  keep  it  warm,  sprinkle  over  with  a 

whisk  broom  a  mixture  composed  of  an  ounce  of  gum  arabic,  and  a  half  pound 

of  sugar,  dissolved  in  two  quarts  of  water;  boil  all  a  few  minutes.    Stir  the  com 

with  the  hands  or  large  spoon  thoroughly;  then  mold  into  balls  with  the  hands. 

POP-CORN  BALLS.    No.  3. 

Take  three  large  eEurs  of  pop-corn  (rice  is  best).  After  popping,  shake  it 
down  in  pan  so  the  unpopped  com  will  settle  at  the  bottom;  put  the  nice  white 
popped  in  a  greased  pan.  For  the  candy,  take  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
hght  brown  or  white  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  will 
harden  in  water.  Pour  on  the  com.  Stir  with  a  spoon  until  thoroughly  mixed; 
then  mold  into  balls  with  the  hand. 


404  CONFECTIONERY. 

No  flayer  should  be  added  to  this  mbctme,  as  the  excelleiioe  of  this  com- 
modiiy  depends  entirelj  upon  the  united  flaTor  of  the  con^  salt  and  the  sugar  or 
molasses. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY. 

BoQ  two  ounces  of  dried  hoarhound  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  for  about 

half  an  hour;  strain,  and  add  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  boil  orer 

a  hot  fire  until  sufficiently  hard;  pour  out  in  flat,  well-greased  tins  and  marked 

into  sticdos  or  smaU  squares  with  a  knife  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  retain  its  di^^ 

JUJUBE  PASTE. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  gum  arabic,  one  pint  of 
water.  Flavor  with  the  essence  of  lemon,  and  a  grain  of  cochineaL  Let  the 
mixture  stand,  until  the  gum  is  dissolved,  in  a  warm  place  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  then  draw  forward  and  cook  until  thick;  try  in  cold  water;  it  should  be 
limber  and  bend  when  cold.  Pour  in  buttered  pans,  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick; 
when  cool,  roll  up  in  a  scroll 

CANDIED  ORANGES. 

Candied  orange  is  a  great  delicacy,  which  is  easily  made:  Peel  and  quarter 
the  oranges;  make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint 
of  water;  let  it  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  water;  then  take  it  from  the  fire  and 
dip  the  quarters  of  orange  in  the  syrup;  let  them  drain  on  a  fine  sieve  placed 
over  a  platter,  so  that  the  syrup  will  not  be  wasted;  let  them  drain  this  until 
cool,  when  the  sugar  will  crystalize.  These  are  nice  served  with  the  last  course 
of  dinner.    Any  fruit  the  same. 

FIG  CANDY. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tarter.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  Boil  to  amber  color,  stir  in  the  cream  of  tartar 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Wash  the  figs,  open  and  lay  in  a  tin  pan  and 
pour  the  candy  over  them.  Or  you  may  dip  them  in  the  syrup  the  same  as 
"  Candied  Oranges." 

CANDY  ROLEY  FOLEY. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  citron,  half  a  pint  of  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  figs,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  one  pint  of  peanuts  before  they  are  hulled; 
cut  up  the  citron,  stone  the  raisins,  blanch  the  almonds,  and  hull  the  peanuts; 
cut  up  the  figs  into  small  bite.  Take  two  pounds  of  coffee-sugar,  and  moisten 
with  vinegar;  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut;  stew  till  it  hardens, 
but  take  off  before  it  gete  to  the  brittle  stage;  beat  it  with  a  spoon  six  or  eight 


CONFECTION-ER  Y.  405 

times;  then  stir  in  the  mixed  fruits  and  nuts.  Pour  into  a  wet  cloth  and  roll  it 
up  like  a  pudding,  twisting  the  ends  of  the  cloth  to  mold  it.  Let  it  get  cold^  and 
slice  off  pieces  as  it  may  be  wanted  for  eating. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Put  one  quart  of  West  India  molasses,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  into  a  six-quart  kettle.  Let  it  boil  over  a  slack 
fire  until  it  begins  to  look  thick,  stirring  it  often  to  prevent  binning.  Test  it  by 
taking  some  out  and  dropping  a  few  drops  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  If  it  hardens 
quickly  and  breaks  short  between  the  teeth  it  is  boiled  enough.  Now  put  in  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  and  stir  it  well;  then  pour  it  out  into  well-buttered, 
flat  tins.  When  partly  cooled,  take  up  the  candy  with  your  hands  well 
buttered,  then  pull  and  double,  and  so  on,  until  the  candy  is  a  whitish  yellow. 
It  may  be  cut  in  strips  and  rolled  or  twisted. 

If  flavoring  is  desired,  drop  the  flavoring  on  the  top  as  it  begins  to  cool,  and 
when  it  is  pulled,  the  whole  will  be  flavored. 

STRAWBERRY  CONSERVE. 

Prepare  the  fruit  as  for  preserving,  allowing  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to 
one  pound  of  fruit.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  fruit  at  night;  in  the  morning, 
put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  kettle,  and  boil  imtil  the  berries  are  clear.  Spread  on 
dishes,  and  put  in  the  sun  imtil  dry;  after  which,  roll  the  fruit  in  sugar,  and 
pack  in  jars. 

PEACH  CONSERVE. 

Halve  the  peaches  and  take  out  the  stones;  pare.  Have  ready  some  pow- 
dered white  sugar  on  a  plate  or  dish.  Roll  the  peaches  in  it  several  times,  imtil 
they  wiU  not  take  up  any  more.  Place  them  singly  on  a  plate,  with  the  cup  or 
hoUow  side  up,  that  the  juices  may  not  run  out.  Lay  them  in  the  sim.  The 
next  morning  roll  them  again.  As  soon  as  the  juice  seems  set  in  the  peaches, 
turn  the  other  side  to  the  sun.  When  they  ai^e  thoroughly  dry,  pack  them  in 
glass  jars,  or,  what  is  still  nicer,  fig-drums.  They  make  an  excellent  sweetmeat 
just  as  they  are;  or,  if  wanted  for  table  use,  put  over  the  fire  in  porcelain,  with 
a  very  little  water,  and  stew  a  few  minutes. 

PEACH  LEATHER. 

Stew  as  many  peaches  as  you  choose,  allowing  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  of  fruit;  mash  it  up  smooth  as  it  cooks,  and  when  it  is  dry  enough  to 
spread  in  a  thin  sheet  on  a  board  greased  with  butter,  set  it  out  in  the  sun 
to  dry;  when  dry  it  can  be  rolled  up  like  leather,  wrapped  up  in  a  cloth,  and 


4o6  CONFECTIONERY. 

will  keep  perfectly  from  season  to  season.  School-children  regard  it  as  a  delight- 
ful addition  to  their  lunch  of  biscuit  or  cold  bread.  Apple  and  quince  leather 
are  made  in  the  same  fashion,  only  a  httle  flavoring  or  spice  is  added  to  them« 

COCOANUT  CARAMELS- 

■ 

Two  cupfuls  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Soak  the  cocoanut,  if  dessicated, 
in  milk  enough  to  cover  it;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  gradually  the 
sugar,  cocoanut,  and  flour;  with  your  fingers  make,  by  rolling  the  mixture, 
mto  cone  shapes.  Place  them  on  buttered  sheets  of  tin,  covered  with  buttered 
letter-paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  heat  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
They  should  cool  before  removing  from  the  tins. 

DRIED  PRESERVES. 
Any  of  the  fruits  that  have  been  preserved  in  syrup  may  be  converted  into 
dry  preserves,  by  first  draining  them  from  the  syrup  and  then  drying  them  slowly 
on  the  stove,  strewing  them  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.    They  should  be 
turned  every  few  hours,  sifting  over  them  more  sugar. 

CANDIES  WITHOUT  COOKING. 

Very  many  candies  made  by  confectioners  are  made  without  boiling,  which 
makes  them  very  desirable,  and  they  are  equal  to  the  best  **  French  Creams/' 
The  secret  hes  in  the  sugar  used,  which  is  the  XXX  powdered  or  confectioners' 
sugar.  Ordinary  powdered  sugar,  when  rubbed  between  the  thumb  and  finger 
has  a  decided  grain,  but  the  confectioners'  sugar  is  fibue  as  flour.  The  candies 
made  after  this  process  are  better  the  day  after. 

FRENCH  VANILLA  CREAM. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  one  or  more  eggs,  as  the  quantity  you  wish 
to  make  wiU  require;  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water,  then  stir  in  XXX 
powdered  or  confectioners'  sugar  until  you  have  it  stiff  enough  to  mold  into 
shape  with  the  fingers.  Flavor  with  vanilla  to  taste.  After  it  is  formed  in 
balls,  cubes  or  lozenge  shapes,  lay  them  upon  plates  or  waxed  paper,  and  set 
them  aside  to  dry.  This  cream  can  be  worked  in  candies  similar  to  the  French 
cooked  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  DROPS. 

These  are  made  or  molded  into  cone-shape  forms  with  the  flngers,  from  the 
uncooked  "French  Cream,"  similar  to  that  which  is  cooked.  After  forming 
into  these  little  balls  or  cones,  lay  them  on  oiled  paper  until  the  next  day,  to 


CONFECTIONERY.  407 

harden,  or  make  them  in  the  morning  and  leave  them  mitil  afternoon.  Then 
melt  some  chocolate  (the  best  confectioners')  in  a  basin  set  in  another  basin  of 
boiling  water;  when  melted,  and  the  creams  are  hard  enough  to  handle,  take 
one  at  a  time  on  a  fork,  and  drop  into  the  melted  chocolate,  roll  it  until  weU 
covered,  then  slip  from  the  fork  upon  oiled  or  waxed  paper,  and  set  them  aside 
to  harden. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  CREAMS. 

itaisins  seeded,  currants,  figs  and  citron,  chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with  the 
uncooked  " French  Cream,"  while  soft,  before  the  sugar  is  all  mixed  in,  makes 
a  delicious  variety.  Nuts  also  may  be  mixed  with  this  cream,  stirring  into  it 
chopped  almonds,  hickory  nuts,  butternuts,  or  English  walnuts,  then  forming 
them  into  balls,  bars  or  squares.    Several  kinds  of  nuts  may  be  mixed  together. 

ORANGE  DROPS. 

Grate  the  rind  of  one  orange  and  squeeze  the  juice,  taking  care  to  reject  the 
seeds;  add  to  this  a  pinch  of  tartaric  acid;  then  stir  in  confectioners'  sugar  until 
it  is  stiff  enough  to  form  into  small  balls  the  size  of  a  small  marble.  This  is 
delicious  candy. 

The  same  process  for  lemon  drops,  using  lemons  in  place  of  orange.  Color  a 
faint  yeUow 

COCOANUT    CREAMS. 

Make  the  uncooked  cream  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Take  the  cream  while 
soft,  add  fresh  grated  cocoanut  to  taste;  add  sufficient  confectioners'  sugar  to 
mold  into  balls  and  then  roll  the  balls  in  the  fresh  grated  cocoanut.  These 
may  be  colored  pink  with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  syrup,  also  brown  by  adding 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate;  then  rolling  them  in  grated  cocoanut;  the 
three  colors  are  very  pretty  together.  The  cocoanut  cream  may  be  made  into  a 
flat  cake  and  cut  into  sqiiares  or  strips. 

With  this  uncooked  cream,  all  the  recipes  given  for  the  cooked  **  French 
Cream,"  may  be  used: — EngUsh  walnut  creams,  variegated  creams,  etc.,  etc 


§4^^'^' 


Boiling  water  is  a  very  important  desideratum  in  the  making  of  a  good  cap 
of  coffee  or  tea,  but  the  average  housewife  is  very  apt  to  overlook  this  fact. 
Do  not  boil  the  water  more  than  three  or  four  minutes;  longer  boiling  ruins  the 
water  for  coffee  or  tea-making,  as  most  of  its  natural  properties  escape  by 
evaporation,  leaving  a  very  insipid  liquid,  composed  mostly  of  lime  and  iron,  that 
would  ruin  the  best  coffee,  and  give  the  tea  a  dark,  dead  look,  which  ought  to 
be  the  reverse. 

Water  left  in  the  tea-kettle  over  night  must  never  he  used  for  preparing  the 
breakfast  coffee;  no  matter  how  excellent  your  coffee  or  tea  may  be,  it  will  be 
ruined  by  the  addition  of  water  that  has  been  boiled  more  than  once. 

THE  HEALING  PROPERTIES  OF  TEA  AND  COFFEE. 

The  medical  properties  of  these  two  beverages  are  considerable.  Tea  is  used 
advantageously  in  inflammatory  diseases  and  as  a  cure  for  the  headache.  Coffee 
is  supposed  to  act  as  a  preventive  of  gravel  and  gout,  and  to  its  influence  is 
ascribed  the  rarity  of  those  diseases  in  France  and  Turkey.  Both  tea  and  coffee 
powerfully  counteract  the  effects  of  opium  and  intoxicating  liquors;  though, 
when  taken  in  excess,  and  without  nourishing  food,  they  themselves  produce, 
temporarily  at  least,  some  of  the  more  disagreeable  consequences  incident  to  the 
use  of  ardent  spirits.  In  general,  however,  none  but  persons  possessing  great 
mobility  of  the  nervous  system,  or  enfeebled  or  effeminate  constitutions,  are 
injuriously  affected  by  the  moderate  use  of  tea  and  coffee  in  connection  with  food* 


One  full  coffee-cupful  of  ground  coffee,  stirred  with  one  egg  and  part  of  the 
shell,  adding  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water.  Put  it  into  the  coffee  boiler,  and  pour 
on  to  it  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  as  it  rises  and  begins  to  boil,  stir  it  down  with 
a  silver  spoon  or  fork.    Boil  hard  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes.    Remove  from  the 


COFFEE,  TEAy  BEVERAGES,  409 

fire,  and  pour  out  a  cupful  of  coffee,  then  pour  back  into  the  coffee-pot.  Place 
it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  range,  where  it  will  keep  hot,  (and  not  boil);  it 
will  settle  in  about  five  minutes.  Send  to  the  table  hot.  Serve  with  good 
cream  and  lump  sugar.  Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Java  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  Mocha  make  the  best  mixture  of  coffee. 

VIENNA  COFFEE. 

Equal  parts  of  Mocha  and  Java  coffee;  aUow  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
coffee  to  each  person,  and  two  extra  to  make  good  strength.  Mix  one  egg  with 
grounds;  pour  on  coffee  half  as  much  boihng  water  as  will  be  needed;  let  coffee 
froth,  then  stir  down  grounds,  and  let  boil  five  minutes;  then  let  coffee  stand 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  add  rest  of 
water.  To  one  pint  of  cream  add  the  white  of  an  egg,  well-beaten;  this  is  to 
be  put  in  cups  with  sugar,  and  hot  coffee  added. 

FILTERED  OR  DRIP  COFFEE. 

For  each  person  allow  a  large  tablespoonful  of  finely  ground  coffee,  and  to 
every  tablespoonful  allow  a  cupful  of  boiling  water;  the  coffee  to  be  one  park 
Mocha  to  two  of  Java. 

Have  a  small  iron  ring  made  to  fit  the  top  of  the  coffee-pot  inside,  and  to 
this  ring  sew  a  small  muslin  bag  (the  muslin  for  the  purpose  must  not  be  too 
thin).  Fit  the  bag  into  the  pot,  pour  some  boiling  water  in  it,  and,  when  the 
pot  is  well- warmed,  put  the  ground  coffee  into  the  bag;  pour  over  as  much  boil- 
ing water  as  is  required,  close  the  Ud,  and,  when  all  the  water  has  filtered 
through,  remove  the  bag,  and  send  the  coffee  to  table.  Making  it  in  this  manner 
prevents  the  necessity  of  pouring  the  coffee  from  one  vessel  to  another,  which 
cools  and  spoils  it.  The  water  should  be  poured  on  the  coffee  gradually  so  that 
the  infusion  may  be  stronger;  and  the  bag  must  be  well  made  that  none  of  the 
groimds  may  escape  through  the  seams  and  so  make  the  coffee  thick  and  muddy. 

Patented  coffee-pots  on  this  principle  can  be  purchased  at  most  house- 
furnishing  stores. 

ICED  COFFEE. 

Make  more  coffee  than  usual  at  breakfast  time  and  stronger.  When  cold 
put  on  ice.    Serve  with  cracked  ice  in  each  tumbler. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  CREAM  IN  COFFEE. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  put  to  it  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  pour  the  coffee 
into  it  gradually,  stirring  it  so  that  it  will  not  curdle.  It  is  difficult  to  distinguish 
this  from  fresh  cream. 


4IO  COFFEE^  TEA, 

Many  drop  a  tiny  paeoe  of  sweet  butter  into  their  cop  of  hot  coffee  as  a  sub- 
stitote  for  cream. 

TO  MAKE  TEA. 

ADow^twoteaqxxnifalsof  teatooEielaigecapfQlof  boO  Scald  the 

teapot,  pot  in  the  tea»  poor  on  about  a  capful  of  bailing  water,  set  it  on  the  fire 
in  a  warm  place  wiiere  it  will  not  boil,  bat  keep  Y&ry  hot,  to  almost  boiling;  let 
it  steep  or  ''draw''  ten  or  twdre  minntes.  Now  fill  op  with  as  nmch  boiling 
water  as  is  leqoired.  Send  Aof  to  the  table.  It  is  better  to  use  a  diina  or  porce- 
lain teapot,  bat  if  70a dense  metal  let  it  be  tin,  new,  bri^t  and  dean;  noTer  ose 
it  when  the  tin  is  worn  off  and  the  iron  e:q[X)eed.  If  70a  do  yoa  are  drinking 
tea-ate  of  iron. 

To  make  tea  to  perfection,  boiling  water  mast  be  poaied  on  the  leaves 
directly  it  boils.  Water  which  has  been  boiling  more  than  five  minntes,  or 
which  has  previoasly  boiled,  shoald  on  no  acconnt  be  need.  If  the  water  does 
not  boil,  or  if  it  be  allowed  to  overboil,  the  leaves  of  the  tea  will  be  only  half - 
opened  and  the  tea  itself  win  be  qaite  spoiled.  The  water  shoald  be  allowed  to 
remain  on  the  leaves  from  ten  to  fifteen  minntes. 

A  Chinese  being  interviewed  for  the  Cook  says:  Diink  yonr  tea  plain. 
Don't  add  milk  or  sagar.  Tea-brokers  and  tea-tasters  never  do;  epicnies  never 
do;  the  Chinese  never  do.  Milk  contains  fibrin,  albumen  or  some  other  stof^ 
and  the  tea  a  delicate  amount  of  tannin.  Mixing  the  two  makes  the  Uqoid 
turbid.  This  turbidity,  if  I  remember  the  cylopaedia  aright,  is  tannate  of  fibrin, 
or  leather.  People  who  put  milk  in  tea  are  therefore  drinking  boots  and  shoes 
in  mild  disguise. 

ICED  TEA. 

Is  now  served  to  a  considerable  extent  during  the  summer  months.  It  is  of 
course  used  without  milk,  and  the  addition  of  sugar  serves  only  to  destroy  the 
finer  tea  flavor.  It  may  be  prepared  some  hours  in  advance,  and  should  be 
made  stronger  than  when  served  hot.  It  is  bottled  and  placed  in  tbo  ice-chest 
tin  required.    Use  the  black  or  green  teas,  or  both,  mixed,  as  fancied.  N^ 

CHOCOLATE. 

AHow  half  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate  to  a  pint  of  water  and  a  pint  of  milk. 
Bnb  the  chocolate  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  add  the  milk  and  IxA  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  it  often. 
Sweeten  to  your  taste. 

The  French  put  two  cupfnls  of  boiling  water  to  each  cupful  of  chocolate. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES.  4 1 1 

They  throw  in  the  chocolate  just  as  the  water  commences  to  boU.  Stir  it  with 
a  spoon  as  soon  as  it  boils  up,  add  two  cupfuls  of  good  milk,  and  when  it  has 
boiled  suflBdently,  serve  with  a  spoonful  of  thick  whipped  cream  with  each  cup. 

COCOA. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa  to  each  pint  of  water,  as  much  milk  as  water, 
sugar  to  taste.  Bub  cocoa  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water;  have  ready  on  the  fire 
a  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  in  grated  cocoa  paste.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  add 
milk  and  boil  five  minutes  more,  stirring  often.  Sweeten  in  cups  so  as  to  suit 
different  tastes. 

BUTTERMILK  AS  A  DRINK. 

Buttermilk,  so  generally  regarded  as  a  waste  product,  has  latterly  been  com- 
ing somewhat  into  vogue,  not  only  as  a  nutrient,  but  as  a  therapeutic  agent, 
and  in  an  editorial  article  the  Canada  Lancety  some  time  ago,  highly  extoUed 
its  virtues.  Buttermilk  may  be  roughly  described  as  milk  which  has  lost  most 
of  its  fat  and  a  small  percentage  of  casein,  and  which  has  become  sour  by  fer- 
mentation. Long  experience  has  demonstrated  it  to  be  an  agent  of  superior 
digestibility.  It  is,  indeed,  a  true  milk  peptone — ^that  is,  milk  already  partially 
digested,  the  coagulation  of  the  coagulable  portion  being  loose  and  flaky,  and  not 
of  that  firm  indigestible  nature  which  is  the  result  of  the  action  of  the  gastric 
juice  upon  sweet  cow's  milk.  It  resembles  koimiiss  in  its  nature,  and,  with  the 
exception  of  that  article,  it  is  the  most  grateful,  refreshing,  and  digestible  of 
the  products  of  milk.  It  is  a  decided  laxative  to  the  bowels,  a  fact  which  must 
be  borne  in  mind  in  the  treatment  of  typhoid  fever,  and  which  may  be  turned 
to  advantage  in  the  treatment  of  habitual  constipation.  It  is  a  diuretic,  and 
may  be  prescribed  with  advantage  in  some  kidney  troubles.  Owing  to  its 
acidity,  combined  with  its  laxative  properties,  it  is  believed  to  exercise  a  general 
impression  on  the  liver.  It  is  well  adapted  to  many  cases  where  it  is  customary 
to  recommend  lime  water  and  milk.  It  is  invaluable  in  the  treatment  of  dia- 
betes, either  exclusively,  or  alternating  with  skimmed  milk.  In  some  cases  of 
gastric  ulcer  and  cancer  of  the  stomach,  it  is  the  only  food  that  can  Vyretained. 

— Medical  Journal. 

CURRANT  WINE.    No.  i. 

The  currants  should  be  quite  ripe.  Stem,  mash  and  strain  them,  adding  a 
half  pint  of  water  and  less  than  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  the  mashed 
fruit.  Stir  well  up  together,  and  pour  into  a  dean  cask,  leaving  the  bung-hole 
open,  or  covered  with  a  piece  of  lace.    It  should  stand  for  a  month  to  ferment. 


4 1 2  COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 

when  it  will  be  ready  for  bottling;  just  before  bottling  you'  may  add  a  smaD 
quantity  of  brandy  or  whiskey. 

CURRANT  WINE.    No.  2. 

To  each  quart  of  currant  juice,  add  two  quarts  of  soft  water  and  three  pounds 
of  brown  sugar.  Put  into  a  jug  or  small  keg,  leaving  the  top  open  until  fer- 
mentation ceases,  and  it  looks  dear.    Draw  off  and  cork  tightly. 

— I/mg  Island  recipe. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.    No.  i. 

Cover  your  blackberries  with  cold  water;  crush  the  berries  well  with  a  wooden 
masher;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours;  then  strain,  and  to  one  gallon  of 
juice  put  three  pounds  of  common  brown  sugar;  put  into  wide-mouthed  jars  for 
several  days,  carefully  skimming  off  the  scum  that  will  rise  to  the  top;  put  in 
several  sheets  of  brown  paper,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  three  days;  then  skim 
again,  and  pour  thi'ough  a  funnel  into  your  cask.  There  let  it  remain  undis- 
turbed tiU  March;  then  strain  again,  and  bottle.  These  directions,  if  carefully 
followed  out,  wiU  insure  you  excellent  wine. 

— Orange  GbutUy  redpe. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.    No.  2. 

Berries  should  be  ripe  and  plump.  Put  into  a  large  wood  or  stone  vessel 
with  a  tap;  pour  on  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  them;  when  cool  enough 
to  bear  your  hand,  bruise  well  imtil  all  the  berries  are  broken;  cover  up,  let 
stand  imtil  berries  begin  to  rise  to  top,  which  will  occur  in  th^  or  four  days. 
Then  draw  off  the  clear  juice  in  another  vessel,  and  add  one  ^und  of  sugar  to 
every  ten  quarts  of  the  liquor,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Let  stand  six  to  ten  days 
in  first  vessel  with  top;  then  draw  off  through  a  jelly  bag.  Steep  four  ounces 
of  isinglass  in  a  pint  of  wine  for  twelve  hours;  boil  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  all 
dissolved,  then  place  dissolved  isinglass  in  a  gallon  of  blackberry  juice,  give  them 
a  boil  together,  and  pour  all  into  the  vessel.  Let  stand  a  few  days  to  ferment 
and  settle,  draw  off  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Other  berry  wines  may  be  made 
in  the  same  manner. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Mash  the  grapes  and  strain  them  through  a  cloth;  put  the  skins  in  a  tub  after 
squeezing  them,  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them;  strain  the  juice  thus 
obtained  into  the  first  portion;  put  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  the 
mixture;  let  it  stand  in  an  open  tub  to  ferment,  covered  with  a  doth,  for  a 
period  of  from  three  to  seven  days;  skim  off  what  rises  every  morning.    Put 


COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES.  413 

the  juice  in  a  cask,  and  leave  it  open  for  twenty-four  hours;  then  bung  it  up, 
and  put  clay  over  the  bung  to  keep  the  air  out.  Let  your  wine  remain  in  the 
cask  until  March,  when  it  should  be  drawn  off  and  bottled. 

FLORIDA  ORANGE  WINE. 

Wipe  the  oranges  with  a  wet  cloth,  peel  off  the  yellow  rind  very  thin,  squeeze 
the  oranges,  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  hair  sieve;  msasure  the  juice  after 
it  is  strained,  and  for  each  gallon  allow  three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  the 
white  and  sheD  of  one  egg,  and  one-third  of  a  gallon  of  cold  water;  put  the  sugar, 
the  white  and  shell  of  the  egg  (crushed  small)  and  the  water  over  the  fire,  and  stir 
them  every  two  minutes  until  the  eggs  begins  to  harden;  then  boil  the  syrup 
until  it  looks  clear  xmder  the  froth  of  egg. which  will  form  on  the  surface;  strain 
the  syrup,  pour  it  upon  the  orange  rind,  and  let  it  stand  over  night;  then  next 
add  the  orange-juice  and  again  let  it  stand  over  night;  strain  it  the  second  day, 
and  put  it  into  a  tight  cask  with  a  small  cake  of  compressed  yeast  to  about  ten 
gallons  of  wine,  and  leave  the  bung  out  of  the  cask  imtil  the  wine  ceases  to 
ferment;  the  hissing  noise  continues  as  long  as  fermentation  is  in  progress;  when 
fermentation  ceases,  close  the  cask  by  driving  in  the  bung,  and  let  the  wine 
stand  about  nine  months  before  bottling  it;  three  months  after  it  is  bottled,  it 
can  be  used.  A  glass  of  brandy  added  to  each  gallon  of  wine  after  fermentation 
ceases  is  generally  considered  an  improvement. 

There  are  seasons  of  the  year  when  Florida  oranges  by  the  box  are  very 
cheap,  and  this  fine  wine  can  be  made  at  a  small  expense. 

METHELIN,  OR  HONEY  WINE. 

This  is  a  very  ancient  and  popular  drink  in  the  north  of  Europe.  To  some 
new  honey,  strained,  add  spring  water;  put  a  whole  egg  into  it;  boil  this  liquor 
till  the  egg  swims  above  the  hquor;  strain,  pour  it  in  a  cask.  To  every  fifteen 
gallons  add  two  oimces  of  white  Jamaica  ginger,  bruised,  one  ounce  of  cloves 
and  mace,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  cinnamon,  aU  bruised  together,  and  tied  up 
in  a  muslin  bag;  accelerate  the  fermentation  with  yeast;  when  worked  sufS- 
ciently,  bung  up;  in  six  weeks  draw  off  into  bottles. 

Another  Mead. — Boil  the  combs,  from  which  the  honey  has  been  drained,  with 
sufficient  water  to  make  a  tolerably  sweet  liquor;  ferment  this  with  yeast,  and 
proceed  as  per  previous  formula. 

SacJc  Mead  is  made  by  adding  a  handful  of  hops  and  sufficient  brandy  to  the 
comb  Uquor. 


4H  COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 

BLACK  CURRANT  WINE. 

Four  quarts  of  whiskey,  four  quarts  of  black  currants;  four  pounds  of  brown 
or  white  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves;  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Crush  the  currants^  and  let  them  stand  in  the  whiskey  with  the  spices  for 
three  weeks;  then  strain  and  add  the  sugar;  set  away  again  for  three  weeks 
longer;  then  strain  and  bottle. 

RAISIN  WINE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seed  and  chop  them,  a  lemon,  a  pound  of  white 
sugar,  and  about  two  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Pour  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir 
daily  for  sue  or  eight  days.  Strain,  bottle,  and  put  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  days 
or  so,  when  the  wine  will  be  ready  for  use. 

CHERRY  BOUNCE. 

To  one  gallon  of  wild  cherries  add  enough  good  whiskey  to  cover  the  fruit. 
Let  soak  two  or  three  weeks  and  then  drain  off  the  liquor.  Mash  the  cherries 
without  breaking  the  stones  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag;  add  this  liquor  to 
that  already  drained  off.  Make  a  syrup  with  a  giU  of  water  and  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  every  two  quarts  of  liquor  thus  prepared;  stir  in  well  and  bottle, 
and  tightly  cork.  A  common  way  of  making  cheny  bounce  is  to  put  wild 
cherries  and  whiskey  together  in  a  jug  and  use  the  liquor  as  wanted. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Warm  and  squeeze  the  berries;  add  to  one  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one-fourth  ounce  of  mace,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  one-fourth  of  an  hour;  strain  the 
syrup,  and  to  each  pint  add  a  glass  of  French  brandy.  Two  or  three  doses  of  a 
tablespoonful  or  less  will  check  any  slight  diarrhoea.  When  the  attack  is 
violent,  give  a  tablespoonful  after  each  discharge,  until  the  complaint  is  in 
subjection.  It  will  arrest  dysentery  if  given  in  season,  and  is  a  pleasant  and 
safe  remedy.    Excellent  for  children  when  teething. 

HOP  BEER. 

Take  five  quarts  of  water,  six  ounces  of  hops,  boil  it  three  hours;  then  strain 
the  liquor,  add  to  it  five  quarts  of  water,  four  ounces  of  bruised  ginger  root,  boil 
this  again  twenty  minutes,  strain  and  add  four  pounds  of  sugar.  When  luke- 
warm, put  in  a  pint  of  yeast.  Let  it  ferment;  in  twenty-four  hours  it  will  be 
ready  for  bottling. 


COFFEE,  TEA.  BEVERAGES.  415 

GINGER  BEER. 

Put  into  a  kettle  two  ounces  of  powdered  ginger  root  (or  more  if  it  is  not 
very  strong),  half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  two  large  lemons,  cut  in  slices, 
two  pounds  of  broken  loaf  sugar,  and  two  gallons  of  soft  boiling  water.  Simmer 
them  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour.  When  the  liquor  is  nearly  cold,  stir  into 
it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  the  best  yeast.  After  it  has  fermented,  which  will 
be  in  about  twenty-four  hours,  bottle  for  use. 

SPRUCE  BEER. 

Allow  an  ounce  of  hops  and  a  spoonful  of  ginger  to  a  gallon  of  water.  When 
well^boiled,  strain  it,  and  put  in  a  pint  of  molasses,  or  a  poxmd  of  brown  sugar, 
and  half  an  ounce  or  less  of  the  essence  of  spruce;  when  cool,  add  a  teacupful 
of  yeast,  and  put  into  a  clean,  tight  cask,  and  let  it  ferment  for  a  day  or  two, 
then  bottle  it  for  use.  You  can  boil  the  sprigs  of  spruce  fir  in  place  of  the 
essence. 

ROMAN  PUNCH.    No.  i. 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  f oin*  lemons  and  two  oranges  upon  two  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges;  cover  the  juice  and 
let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve,  mix  with  the  sugar; 
add  a  bottle  of  champagne  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
It  may  be  frozen  or  not,  as  desired.     For  winter  use  snow  instead  of  ice. 

ROMAN  PUNCH.    No.  2. 

Make  two  quarts  of  lemonade,  rich  with  pure  juice  lemon  fruit;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  extract  of  lemon.  Work  well,  and  freeze;  just  before  serving, 
add  for  each  quart  of  ice  half  a  pint  of  brandy  and  half  a  pint  of  Jamaica  rum. 
Mix  well  and  serve  in  high  glasses,  as  this  makes  what  is  called  a  semi  or  half- 
ice.    It  is  usually  served  at  dinners  as  a  coup  de  milieu. 

DELICIOUS  JUNKET. 

Take  two  quarts  of  new  milk,  warm  it  on  the  stove  to  about  blood-heat; 
pour  it  into  a  glass  or  china  bowl,  and  stir  into  it  two  tablespoonf uls  of  Grosse  & 
Blackwell's  prepared  rennet,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  a 
small  wine-glassful  of  j>ale  brandy.  Let  it  stand  tiH  cold  and  eat  with  sugar  aud 
rich  cream.     Half  the  quantity  can  be  made. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

One  quart  of  raspberry  juice,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  dissolved,  a  pint  of 
Jamaica  rum,  or  part  rum  and  brandy.    Mix  thoroughly.    Bottle  for  use. 


41 6  COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 

SASSAFRAS  MEAD. 

MiT  gradually  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
the  best  brown  sugar^  a  pint  and  a  half  of  good  West  India  molasses,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  tartaric  add.  Stir  it  well,  and  when  cool,  strain  it  into 
a  large  jug  or  pan,  then  mix  in  a  teaspoonful  (not  more)  of  essence  of  sassafras. 
Transfer  it  to  clean  bottles,  (it  will  fill  about  half  a  doz^i,)  cork  it  tightly,  and 
keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  next  day.  Put  into  a  box  or  boxes 
a  quarter  of  a  poimd  of  carbonate  of  soda,  to  use  with  it.  To  prepare  a  glass  of 
sassafras  mead  for  drinking,  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  the  mead  into  a  half 
tumbler  full  of  ice- water,  stir  into  it  a  half  teaspoonful  of  fche  soda,  and  it  will 
knmediately  foam  up  to  the  top. 

Sassafras  mead  will  be  found  a  cheap,  wholesome,  and  pleasant  beverage  for 
i7arm  weather.  The  essence  of  sassafras,  tartaric  acid  and  carbonate  of  soda, 
»ian,  of  course,  all  be  obtained  at  the  druggist's. ' 

CREAM  SODA  WITHOUT  THE  FOUNTAIN. 

Coffee-sugar,  four  poimds;  three  pints  of  water,  three  nutmegs,  grated,  the 
whites  of  ten  eggs,  wcill-beaten,  gum  arable,  one  ounce;  twenty  drops  of  oil  of 
lemon,  or  extract  equal  to  that  amount.  By  using  oils  of  other  fruits,  you  can 
make  as  many  flavors  from  this  as  you  desire.  Mix  all,  and  place  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  stir  well  about  thirty  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain,  and 
divide  into  two  parts;  into  one-half  put  eight  oimces  of  bi -carbonate  of  soda^  into 
the  other  half  put  six  ounces  of  tartaric  acid.  Shake  well,  and  when  cold  they 
are  ready  for  use  by  pouring  three  or  four  spoonfuls  from  both  parts  into  sepa- 
rate glasses,  each  one-third  fuU  of  water.  Stir  each  and  i>our  together,  and  you 
haveanice  glass  of  cream  soda  which  you  can  drink  at  your  leisure,  as  the  gum 
and  eggs  hold  the  gas. 

WINE  WHEY. 

Sweeten  one  pint  of  milk  to  taste,  and  when  boiling,  throw  in  two  wine- 
glasses of  sherry;  when  the  curd  forms,  strain  the  whey  through  a  muslin  bag 
into  tumblers. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons;  grate  the  rind  of  six  in  it,  let  it  stand  over 
night;  then  take  six  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  make  a  thick  syrup.  When  it 
is  quite  cool,  strain  the  juice  into  it,  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated 
rind  as  will  suit  the  taste.  Put  in  bottles,  securely  corked,  for  future  use.  A 
tablespoonful  in  a  goblet  of  water  wiU  make  a  delicious  drink  on  a  hot  day. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES.  417 

FOR  A  SUMMER  DRAUGHT. 

The  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  tumblerful  of  cold  water,  pounded  sugar  to  taste, 
-half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the 
lemon;  strain,  and  add  it  to  the  water,  with  sufficient  pounded  sugar  to  sweeten 
the  whole  nicely.  When  well-mixed,  put  in  the  soda,  stir  well,  and  drink  while 
lihe  mixtui-e  is  in  an  effervescing  state. 

NOYEAU  CORDIAL. 

To  one  gallon  of  proof  spirit  add  three  poimds  of  loaf  sugar  and  a  table- 
-spoonful  of  extract  of  almonds.  Mix  well  together,  and  allow  to  stand  forty- 
eight  hours,  covered  closely;  now  strain  through  thick  flannel,  and  bottle.  This 
Jiquor  will  be  much  improved  by  adding  half  a  pint  of  apricot  or  peach  juice. 

EGG  NOGG. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  twelve  eggs  very  hght,  stir  in  as  much  white  sugar  as 
they  will  dissolve,  pour  in  gradually  one  glass  of  brandy  to  cook  the  eggs,  one 
glass  of  old  whiskey,  one  grated  nutmeg,  and  three  pints  of  rich  milk.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  last. 

EGG  FLIP,  OR  MULLED  ALE. 

Boil  one  quart  of  good  ale,  with  some  nutmeg;  beat  up  six  eggs,  and  mix 
them  with  a  little  cold  ale;  then  pour  the  hot  ale  to  it,  and  pour  it  back  and  forth 
several  times  to  prevent  its  curdling;  warm,  and  stir  it  tUl  sufficiently  thick;  add 
a,  piece  of  butter  or  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  serve  it  with  dry  toast. 

MILK  PUNCH. 

One  pint  of  milk  made  very  sweet;  a  wine-glassful  of  brandy  or  rum,  well- 
Btirred  together;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  of  the  glasses.  Serve  with  a 
43traw  in  each  glass. 

FINE  MILK  PUNCH. 

Pare  off  the  yellow  rind  of  four  large  lemons,  and  steep  it  for  twenty -four 
hours  in  a  quart  of  brandy  or  rum.  Then  mix  with  it  the  juice  of  the  lemons, 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar,  two  grated  nutmegs,  and  a  quart  of  water. 
Add  a  quart  of  rich  unskimmed  milk,  made  boiling  hot,  and  strain  the  whole 
through  a  jelly  bag.  You  may  either  use  it  as  soon  as  it  is  cold,  or  make  a  larger 
quantity  (in  the  above  proportions),  and  bottle  it.    It  will  keep  several  months. 


41 8  COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 

TO  MAKE  HOT  PUNCH. 

Half  a  pint  of  nun,  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  (me 
large  lemon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutm^,  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Rub  the  sugar  over  the  lemon  until  it  has  absorbed  all  the  yellow  part  of  the 
skin,  then  put  the  sugar  into  a  punch-bowl;  add  the  lemon- juice  (free  from  pips), 
and  mix  these  two  ingredients,  well  together.  Pour  over  them  the  boiling  water, 
stir  well  together,  add  the  rum,  brandy,  and  nutm^;  mix  thoroughly  and  the 
punch  will  be  ready  to  serve.  It  is  very  important  in  making  good  punch  that 
all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incorporated;  and  to  insure  success,  the  pro- 
cesses of  mixing  must  be  diligently  attended  to.    (This  is  an  old-style  punch.) 

LEMONADE. 

Three  lemons  to  a  pint  of  water  makes  strong  lemonade;  sweeten  to  your 
taste. 

STRAWBERRY  WATER. 

Take  one  cupful  of  ripe  hulled  berries;  crush  with  a  wooden  spoon,  TnJTing 
with  the  mass  a  quarter  of  a  poiuid  of  pulverized  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  fine  sieve,  rub  through  and  filter  till  dear;  add 
the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cold  water,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  set  in  ice-chest  tOl  wanted. 

This  makes  a  nice,  cool  drink  on  a  warm  day,  and  easily  to  be  made  in  straw- 
berry season. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  RASPBERRY  SYRUP. 

Mash  the  fresh  fruit,  express  the  juice,  and  to  each  quart  add  three  and  a 
half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  The  juice,  heated  to  ISO""  Fahrenheit,  and 
strained  or  filtered  previous  to  dissolving  the  sugar,  will  keep  for  an  indefinite 
time,  canned  hot  in  glass  jars. 

The  juice  of  soft  fruits  is  best  when  allowed  to  drop  therefrom  by  its  own 
weight,  lightly  mash  the  fruit  and  then  suspend  in  a  cloth,  allowing  the  juice  to 
drop  in  a  vessel  beneath.  Many  housekeepers,  after  the  bottles  and  jars  are 
thoroughly  washed  and  dried,  smoke  them  with  sulphur  in  this  way:  Take  a 
piece  of  wire  and  bend  it  around  a  small  piece  of  brimstone  the  size  of  a  bean; 
set  the  brimstone  on  fire,  put  it  in  the  jar  or  bottle,  bending  tho.  other  end  over 
the  mouth  of  the  vessel,  and  cover  with  a  cork;  after  the  brimstone  has  biu-ned 
away,  fill  the  vessel  with  the  syrup  or  preserves  and  cover  tightly.  There  is  no 
sulphurous  taste  left  by  the  process. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES.  419 

KOUMISS. 

Koumiss  is  prepared  by  dissolving  four  ounces  of  white  sugar  in  one  gallon 
of  skimmed  milk,  and  placing  in  bottles  of  the  capacity  of  one  quart;  add  two 
ounces  of  bakers'  yeast,  or  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  to  each  bottle.  Cork  and 
tie  securely,  set  in  a  warm  place  tmtil  fermentation  is  weU  under  way,  and  lay 
the  bottles  on  their  sides  in  a  cool  cellar.  In  three  days,  fermentation  wiU  have 
progressed  sufficiently  to  permit  the  koumiss  to  be  in  good  condition. 

PINEAPPLE  VINEGAR. 

Cover  sliced  pine-apples  with  pure  cider  vinegar;  let  them  stand  three  or  four 
days,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  cloth  as  long  as  it  runs  clear;  to  every 
three  quarts  of  juice  add  five  pounds  of  sugar. 

Boil  it  all  together  about  ten  minutes,  skim  carefuUy  until  nothing  rises  to 
the  surface,  take  from  the  fire;  when  cool,  bottle  it.  Blackberries  and  rasp- 
berries, and,  in  fact,  any  kind  of  highly  flavored  fruit,  is  fine;  a  tablespoonful 
in  a  glass  of  ice-cold  water,  to  drink  in  warm  weather. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR.    No.  i. 

Put  a  quart  of  raspberries  into  a  suitable  dish,  pour  over  them  a  quart  of 
good  vin^ar,  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain  through  a  flaimel  bag, 
and  pour  this  liquor  on  another  quart  of  berries;  do  this  for  three  or  four  days 
successively,  and  strain  it;  make  it  very  sweet  with  loaf  sugar;  bottle,  and  seal  it. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR.    No.  2. 

Turn  over  a  quart  of  ripe  raspberries,  mashed,  a  quart  of  good  cider  vinegar,, 
add  one  poimd  of  white  sugar,  mix  well,  then  let  stand  in  the  sun  four  hours. 
Strain  it,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  put  in  a  pint  of  good  brandy.  Seal  it  up 
in  bottles,  air  tight,  and  lay  them  on  their  sides  in  the  cellar;  cover  them  with 
sawdust.  When  used,  pour  two  tablespoonfuls  to  a  tumblerful  of  ice- water. 
Fine. 

HOME-MADE  TABLE  VINEGAR. 
Put  in  an  open  cask  four  gallons  of  warm  rain -water,  one  gallon  of  commoa 
molasses,  and  two  quarts  of  yeast;  cover  the  top  with  thin  muslin  and  leave  it 
in  the  sun,  covering  it  up  at  night  and  when  it  rains.  In  three  or  four  weeks  it 
will  be  good  vinegar.  H  cider  can  be  used  in  place  of  rain-water  the  vinegar 
will  make  much  sooner — wiU  not  take  over  a  week  to  make  a  very  sharp  vinegar^ 
Excellent,  for  pickling  purposes. 


420  COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 

VERY  STRONG  TABLE  VINEGAR. 

Take  two  gallons  of  good  dder  and  thoroughly  mix  it  with  two  pounds  of 

new  honey,  pour  into  your  cask  or  bottle,  and  let  it  stand  from  four  to  six 

months,  when  you  will  have  vinegar  so  strong  that  it  cannot  be  used  at  table 

^thout  diluting  with  water.    It  is  the  best  ever  procured  for  pickling  purposes. 

PINEAPPLE-ADE- 
Pare  and  slice  some  very  ripe  pineapples;  then  cut  the  sUces  into  small  pieces. 
Put  them  with  all  their  juice  into  a  large  pitcher,  and  sprinkle  among  them 
plenty  of  powdered  white  sugar.  Pour  on  boiling  water,  aflowing  a  smaU  half 
pint  to  each  pineapple.  Cover  the  pitcher,  and  let  it  st€md  till  quite  cool,  oc- 
casionally pressing  down  the  pineapple  with  a  spoon.  Then  set  the  pitcher  for 
a  while  in  ice.  Lastly,  strain  the  infusion  into  another  vessel,  and  transfer  it 
to  tumblers,  putting  into  each  glass  some  more  sugar  and  a  bit  of  ice.  This 
l>everage  will  be  found  delicious. 

SEIDLITZ  POWDERS. 
Fold  in  a  white  paper  a  mixture  of  one  drachm  of  Bochelle  salts  and  twenty- 
five  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda,  in  a  blue  paper  twenty  grains  of  tartaric 
acid.  They  should  all  be  pulverized  very  finely.  Put  the  contents  of  the  white 
paper  into  a  tumbler,  not  quite  half  fuU  of  cold  water,  and  stir  it  till  dissolved. 
Then  put  the  mixture  from  the  blue  paper  into  another  tumbler  with  the  same 
quantity  of  water,  and  stir  that  also.  When  the  powders  are  dissolved  in  both 
tumblers,  pour  the  first  into  the  other,  and  it  will  eff eiVesce  immediately.  Drink 
it  quickly,  while  foaming. 

INEXPENSIVE  DRINKL 

A  very  nice,  cheap  drink  which  may  take  the  place  of  lemonade,  and  be  found 
fully  as  healthful,  is  made  vdth  one  cupful  of  pure  cider  vin^ar,  half  a  cupfal 
of  good  molasses,  put  into  one  quart  pitcher  of  ice- water.  A  tablespoonful  of 
.ground  ginger  added  makes  a  healthful  beverage. 


^A 


Dishes  for  invalids  should  be  served  in  the  daintiest  and  most  attractive  way; 
never  send  more  than  a  supply  for  one  meal;  the  same  dish  too  frequently  set 
before  an  invalid  often  causes  a  distaste,  when  perhaps  a  change  would  tempt 
the  appetite. 

When  preparing  dishes  where  milk  is  used,  the  condition  of  the  patient  should 
be  considered.  Long  cooking  hardens  the  albumen  and  makes  the  milk  very 
constipating;  then,  if  the  patient  should  be  already  constipated^  care  should  be 
taken  not  to  heat  the  milk  above  the  boiling  point. 

The  seasoning  of  food  for  the  sick  should  be  varied  according  to  the  condition 
of  the  patient;  one  recovering  from  illness  can  partake  of  a  little  piece  of  roast 
mutton,  chicken,  rabbit,  game,  fish,  simply  dressed,  and  simple  puddings  are  ail 
light  food  and  easily  digested.  A  mutton  chop,  nicely  cut,  trimmed  and  broiled, 
is  a  dish  that  is  often  inviting  to  an  invalid.  As  a  rule,  an  invalid  wiU  be  more 
likely  to  enjoy  any  preparation  sent  to  him  if  it  is  served  in  small,  delicate 
pieces.  As  there  are  so  many  small,  dainty  dishes  that  can  be  made  for  this 
purpose,  it  seems  useless  to  try  to  more  than  give  a  small  variety  of  them. 
Pudding  can  be  made  of  prepared  barley,  or  tapioca,  well-soaked  before  boiling, 
with  an  egg  added,  and  a  change  can  be  made  of  light  puddings  by  mixing  up 
some  stewed  fruit  with  the  puddings  before  baking;  a  bread  pudding  from  stale 
bread-crumbs,  and  a  tiny  cup-custard,  boiled  in  a  small  basin  or  cup;  also  various 
drinks,  such  as  milk  ptmch,  wine,  whey,  apple-toddy,  and  various  other  nourish- 
ing  drinks. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  MUTTO^N  CHOPS. 

Select  the  tenderest  cuts,  and  broil  over  a  dear,  hot  fire.  Let  the  steak  be 
rare,  the  chops  well  done.  Salt  and  pepper;  lay  between  two  hot  plates  three 
minutes,  and  serve  to  your  patient.  If  he  is  very  weak,  do  not  let  him  swallow 
anything  except  the  juice,  when  he  has  chewed  the  meat  welL  The  essence  of 
rare  beef,  roasted  or  broiled,  thus  expressed,  is  considered  by  some  physicians  to 
be  more  strengthening  than  beef  tea  prepared  in  the  usual  manner. 


422  FOR  THE  SICK. 

BEEF  TEA. 
One  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  glass  canning- jar 
without  a  drop  of  water;  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.  Heat 
gradually  to  a  boil,  and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the 
meat  is  like  white  rags,  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Season  with  salt  to  taste, 
and  when  cold,  skim. 

VEAL  OR  MUTTON  BROTH. 
Take  a  scrag-end  of  mutton  (two  pounds),  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  two 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  an  ounce  of  pearl  barley  or  rice.  When  it  is  coming 
to  a  boil,  skim  it  weU,  then  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let  it  boil  until  half 
reduced,  then  strain  it,  and  take  off  all  the  fat,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is 
excellent  for  an  invalid.  If  v^etables  are  liked  in  this  broth,  take  one  turnip, 
one  carrot,  and  one  onion,  cut  them  in  shreds,  and  boil  them  in  the  broth  half 
an  hour.    In  that  case,  the  barley  may  be  served  with  the  vegetables  in  broth. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Make  the  same  as  mutton  or  beef  broth.  Boil  the  chicken  slowly,  putting 
on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it  well,  watching  it  closely  that  it  does  not  boil 
down  too  much.  When  the  chicken  is  tender,  season  with  salt  and  a  very  little 
pepper.    The  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  light  and  added,  is  very  nourishing. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  grits  (oatmeal  coarsely  ground)  into  a 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  gently,  and  stir  it  often,  till  it  becomes  as  thick 
as  you  wish  it.  Then  strain  it,  and  add  to  it  while  warm,  butter,  wine,  nutm^, 
or  whatever  is  thought  proper  to  flavor  it.    Salt  to  taste. 

If  you  make  the  gruel  of  fine  oatmeal,  sift  it,  mix  it  first  to  a  thick  batter 
with  a  httle  cold  water,  and  then  put  it  into  the  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  it  all  the  time  it  is  boiling,  lifting  the  spoon  gently  up  and  down,  and  letting 
the  gruel  fall  slowly  back  again  into  the  pan. 

CORN-MEAL  GRUEL. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  Indian  meal,  mixed  smooth  with  cold  water  and  a 
salt-spoonful  of  salt;  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
Stir  it  frequently,  and  if  it  becomes  too  thick  use  boiling  water  to  thin  it.  If  the 
stomach  is  not  too  weak,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  may  be  used  to  cool  it. 
Some  like  it  sweetened  and  others  like  it  plain.  For  very  sick  persons,  let  it 
settle,  pour  off  the  top,  and  give  without  other  seasoning.  For  convalescents, 
toast  a  piece  of  bread  as  nicely  as  possible,  and  put  it  in  the  gruel  with  a  table- 


FOa  THE  SICK.  423 

spoonful  of  nice  sweet  cream,  and  a  little  ginger  and  sugar.    This  should  be 
used  only  when  a  laxative  is  allowed. 

EGG  GRUEL. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  pour  one  teacupful 
of  boiling  water  on  it;  add  the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  any 
seasoning  or  spice  desired.    Take  warm. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

The  same  as  arrowroot,  excepting  it  should  be  all  milk,  and  thickened  with 
a  scant  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour;  let  it  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  it  con- 
tinually, add  a  little  cold  milk,  and  give  it  one  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

ARROWROOT  MILK  PORRIDGE. 

One  large  cupful  of  fresh  milk,  new  if  you  can  get  it;  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water;  one  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot,  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold  water;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  the  sugar  into  the  milk,  the  salt 
into  the  boiling  water,  which  should  be  poured  into  a  farina-kettle.  Add  the 
wet  arrowroot,  and  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  it  is  clear;  put  in  the  milk,  and 
cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  often.  Give  while  warm,  adding  hot  milk  should  it 
be  thicker  than  gruel. 

ARROWROOT  BLANC  MANGE. 

One  large  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  cold  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
flavor  with  rose-water.  Proceed  as  in  the  foregoing  recipes,  boiling  and  stirring 
eight  minutes.  Turn  into  a  wet  mold,  and  when  firm,  serve  with  cream  and 
powdered  sugar. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  after  washing  it  thoroughly 
two  or  three  times;  after  soaking  three  or  four  hours,  sinuner  it  in  a  stew-pan 
until  it  becomes  quite  clear,  stirring  often;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  lit- 
tle of  the  grated  peel,  also  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Wine  can  be 
substituted  for  lemon,  if  hked. 

SLIPPERY-ELM  BARK  TEA. 

Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  cover,  and  let  it  infuse 
until  cold.  Sweeten,  ice,  and  take  for  summer  disorders,  or  add  lemon  juice  and 
drink  for  a  bad  cold. 


424  ^OR  THE  SICK. 

FLAX-SEED  TEA. 

Upon  an  ounce  of  unbruised  flax-seed  and  a  little  pulverized  liquorice-root 
pour  a  pint  of  boiling  (soft  or  rain)  water;  and  place  the  vessel  containing  these 
ingredients  near,  but  not  on^  the  fire  for  four  hours.  Strain  through  a  linen 
cloth.  Make  it  fresh  every  day.  An  excellent  drink  in  fever  accompanied  by  a 
cough. 

FLAX-SEED  LEMONADE. 

To  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flax-seed,  allow  a  tumbler  and  a  half  of  cold  water. 
Boil  them  together  till  the  hquid  becomes  very  sticky.  Then  strain  it  hot  over 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  pulverized  gum  arabic. 
Stir  it  till  quite  dissolved,  and  squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

This  mixture  has  frequently  been  found  an  efiicacious  remedy  for  a  cold, 
taking  a  wine-glass  of  it  as  often  as  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

TAMARIND  WATER. 

Put  tamarinds  into  a  pitcher  or  tumbler  till  it  is  one- third  full;  then  fill  up 
with  cold  water,  cover  it,  and  let  it  infuse  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more. 

Currant  jelly  or  cranberry  juice  mixed  with  water  makes  a  pleasant  drink 
for  an  invalid. 

SAGO  JELLY. 

Made  the  same  as  tapioca.  If  seasoning  is  not  advisable,  the  sago  may  be 
boiled  in  milk,  instead  of  water,  and  eaten  plain. 

Eice  jelly  made  the  same,  using  only  halE  as  much  rice  as  sago. 

ARROWROOT  WINE  JELLY. 

One  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  scant  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot;  mix  with 
a  little  cold  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
of  brandy,  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  Excellent  for  a  sick  person  without 
fever. 

HOMINY. 

Put  to  soak  one  pint  of  hominy  in  two  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  water 
over  night,  in  a  tin  vessel  with  a  tight  cover;  in  the  morning  add  one-half  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  and  a  httle  salt.  Place  on  a  brisk  fire  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water^ 
the  tin  vessel  containing  the  hominy;  let  boil  one-half  hour. 

Cracked  wheat,  oatmeal,  mush,  are  all  good  food  for  the  sick. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  425: 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 

Cook  a  chicken  in  enough  water  to  little  more  than  cover  it;  let  it  stew  gently 
until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones,  and  the  broth  is  reduced  to  about  a  pint; 
season  it  to  taste,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  and  press,  first  through 
a  colander,  then  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Set  it  over  the  fire  again,  and  cook  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Turn  it  into  an  earthen  vegetable  dish  to  harden;  set  it  on 
the  ice  in  the  refrigerator.  Eat  cold  in  slices.  Nice  made  into  sandwiches,  with. 
thin  slices  of  bread,  lightly  spread  with  butter. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Boil  half  a  cupful  of  rice  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  with  half  a  tea 
spoonful  of  salt;  when  the  water  has  boiled  nearly  out  and  the  rice  begins  to  look . 
soft  and  dry,  turn  over  it  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  let  it  simmer  until  the  rice  is 
done  and  nearly  dry;  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  in  a  weU-beaten  egg.    EJat  it 
warm  with  cream  and  sugar.    Flavor  to  taste. 

CUP  PUDDING. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  egg;  mix  with  cold  milk  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  to  a  batter.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  in  a  buttered  cup.  Eat  with  sauce,  fruit, 
or  plain  sugar. 

TAPIOCA  CUP  PUDDING. 

This  is  very  light  and  delicate  for  invalids.    An  even  tablespoonful  of  tapioca, 
soaked  for  two  hours  in  nearly  a  cup  of  new  milk;  stir  into  this  the  yolk  of  a. 
fresh  egg,  a  Uttle  sugar,  a  grain  of  salt,  and  bake  it  in  a  cup  for  fifteen  minutes. 
A  Uttle  jelly  may  be  eaten  with  it. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Gret  nice  fruit,  a  little  tart  and  juicy,  but  not  sour;  clean  them  nicely,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven — ^regulated  so  as  to  have  them  done  in  about  an  hour; 
when  the  skin  cracks  and  the  pulp  breaks  through  in  every  direction  they  are 
done  and  ready  to  take  out.    Serve  with  white  sugar  sprinkled  over  them. 

SOFT  TOAST. 
Toast  well,  but  not  too  brown,  two  thin  slices  of  stale  bread;  put  them  on  a 
warm  plate,  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  pour  upon  them  some  boiling, 
water;  quickly  cover  with  another  dish  of  the  same  size,  and  drain  off  the  water.. 
Put  a  very  smaU  bit  of  butter  on  the  toast  and  serve  at  once  whil^  hot. 


426  FOR  THE  SICK. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE. 

A  small  handful  of  moss  (to  be  purchased  at  any  drug  store);  wash  it  very 
carefully,  and  put  it  in  one  quart  of  millr  on  the  fire.  Let  the  milk  simmer  for 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  moss  begins  to  dissolve.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
lialf  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Put  away  to  harden  in  cups  or  molds, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

A  delicate  dish  for  an  invalid.  ^. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Brown  a  slice  of  bread  ziicely  over  the  coals,  dip  it  in  hot  water  slightly  salted, 
l>utter  it,  and  lay  on  the  top  an  egg  that  has  been  broken  into  boiling  water,  and 
cooked  until  the  white  has  hardened;  season  the  egg  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a 
crumb  of  salt. 

The  best  way  to  cook  eggs,  for  an  invalid  is  to  drop  them,  or  else  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  egg  in  the  shell  and  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes  on  the  back  of 
the  stove. 

OYSTER  TOAST. 

Make  a  nice  slice  of  dry  toast,  butter  it  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  six 
oysters,  half  a  teacupful  of  their  own  liquor,  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  into  a 
tin  cup  or  basin,  and  boil  one  minute.  Season  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  then  pour  over  the  toast  and  serve. 

MULLED  JELLY. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  currant  or  grape  jelly ;  beat  with  it  the  white  of 
one  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  pour  on  it  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  and 
break  in  a  slice  of  dry  toast  or  two  crackers. 

CUP  CUSTARD. 

Break  into  a  coffee-cup  an  ^g,  put  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  beat  it  up 
thoroughly,  a  piach  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg;  fill  up  the  cup  with 
good  sweet  milk ;  turn  it  into  another  cup,  well  buttered,  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of 
l>oiling  water,  reaching  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cup.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  when 
the  custard  is  set,  it  is  done.    Eat  cold. 

CLAM  BROTH. 

Select  twelve  small,  hardshell  clams,  drain  them,  and  chop  them  fine;  add 
half  a  pint  of  dam  juice  or  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  walnut  of 


FOR  THE  SICK.  427 

batter;  simmer  thirty  minutes;  add  a  gill  of  boiled  milk,  strain,  and  serve. 
This  is  an  excellent  broth  for  weak  stomachs. 

MILK  OR  CREAM  CODFISH. 

This  dish  wiU  often  relish  when  a  person  is  recovering  from  sickness,  when 
nothing  else  would.  Pick  up  a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt  codfish  veiy  fine; 
freshen  it  considerably  by  placing  it  over  the  fire  in  a  basin,  covering  it  with 
cold  water  as  it  comes  to  a  boil;  turn  off  the  water  and  freshen  again  if  very 
salt,  then  turn  off  the  water  imtil  dry,  and  pour  over  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
thin  cream;  add  a  bit  of  butter,  a  sprinkle  cTf  pepper,  and  a  thickening  made  of 
one  teaspoonful  of  flour  or  corn-starch,  wet  up  with  a  little  milk;  when  this  boils 
up,  turn  over  a  slice  of  dipped  toast. 

CRACKER  PANADA. 

Break  in  pieces  three  or  f  om*  hard  crackers  that  are  baked  quite  brown,  and 
let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  one  quart  of  water;  then  remove  from  the  fire, 
let  them  stand  thre6  or  four  minutes,  strain  off  the  liquor  through  a  fiuue  wire 
sieve,  and  season  it  with  sugar. 

This  is  a  nourishing  beverage  for  infants  that  are  teething,  and  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  wine  and  nutmeg,  is  often  prescribed  for  invalids  recovering 
from  a  fever. 

BREAD  PANADA 

Put  three  gills  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  on  the  fire, 
and  just  before  it  boils  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  crumbs  of  stale  white 
bread;  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes;  then  add  one  glass  of 
white  wine,  a  grated  lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 

SLIPPERY-ELM  TEA. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sUppery-elm  into  a  tumbler,  pour  cold  water 
upon  it,  and  season  with  lemon  and  sugar. 

TOAST  WATER,  OR  CRUST  COFFEE. 

Take  stale  pieces  of  crusts  of  bread,  the  end  pieces  of  the  loaf;  toast  them  a 
nice,  dark  brown,  care  to  be  taken  that  they  do  not  bum  in  the  least,  as  that 
affects  the  fiavor.  Put  the  browned  crusts  into  a  large  milk  pitcher,  aod  pour 
enough  boiling  water  over  to  cover  them;  cover  the  pitcher  closely,  and  let  steep 
until  cold.    Strain,  and  sweeten  to  taste;  put  a  piece  of  ice  in  each  glass. 

This  is  also  good,  drank  warm  with  cream  and  sugar,  similar  to  coffee. 


428  FOR  THE  SICK. 

PLAIN  MILK  TOAST. 
Cot  a  thin  dioe  from  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  toast  it  Tory  quickly,  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  it,  and  ponr  upon  it  three  tablespoonfols  of  boiling  milk  or  cream. 
Cradkers  split  and  toasted  in  this  manner,  are  often  very  grateful  to  an  invalid. 

LINSEED  TEA. 

Pot  one  tablespoonful  of  linseed  into  a  stew-pan  with  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water;  place  the  stew-pan  over  a  moderate  fire,  and,  when  the  water  is  quite 
warm,  pour  it  off,  and  add  to  the  linseed  half  a  pint  of  fresh  cold  water;  then 
let  the  whole  boil  three  or  four  minutes;  season  it  with  lemon  and  sugar. 

POWDERS  FOR  CHILDREN. 

A  very  excellent  carminative  powder  for  flatulent  infants  may  be  kept  in  the 
house,  and  employed  with  advantage  whenever  the  child  is  in  pain  or  griped, 
dropping  five  grains  of  oil  of  anise-seed  and  two  of  peppeimiiLt  on  half  an  ounce 
of  lump  sugar,  and  rubbing  it  in  a  mortar,  with  a  drachm  of  magnesia^  into  a 
fine  powder.  A  small  quantity  of  this  may  be  given  in  a  little  water  at  any 
time,  and  always  with  benefit. 

FOR  CHILDREN  TEETHING. 

Tie  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  wheat  flour  in  a  thick  doth,  and  boil  it  in  one 
quart  of  water  for  three  hours;  then  remove  the  doth  and  expose  the  flour  to 
the  air  or  heat  until  it  is  hard  and  dry;  grate  from  it,  when  wanted,  one  table- 
spoonful,  which  put  into  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  when  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and 
serve.    This  gruel  is  excellent  for  children  afflicted  with  summer  complaint. 

Or,  brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove  on  a 
baking-tin;  feed  a  few  pinches  at  a  time  to  a  child,  and  it  will  often  check  a 
diarrhoea.  The  tincture  of  '^  kino  "—of  which  from  ten  to  thirty  drops,  mixed 
with  a  little  sugar  and  water  in  a  spoon,  and  given  every  two  or  three  hours,  is 
Tery  ef&cadous  and  harmless — can  be  procured  at  almost  any  druggist's. 
Tablespoon  doses  of  pure  dder  vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  has  cured  when  all 
dsefaOed. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

This  recipe  may  be  foimd  under  the  head  of  "  Coflfee,  Tea,  Beverages."  It 
win  be  found  an  excellent  medicine  for  children  teething  and  summer  diseases. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  429 


ACID  DRINKS. 


thirty  large 


ihem;  cover  them  closely,  and  let  them  steep  mitil  the  water  is  cold. 

2.  Pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon  one  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly, 
and  stir  until  the  jelly  is  dissolved. 

8.  Cranberries  and  barberries  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  to  make  very 
refreshing  acid  drinks  for  persons  recovering  from  fevers. 

DRAUGHTS  FOR  THE  FEET. 

Take  a  large  leaf  from  the  horseradish  plant,  and  cut  out  the  hard  fibres  that 
run  through  the  leaf;  place  it  on  a  hot  shovel  for  a  moment  to  soften  it,  fold  it,, 
and  fasten  it  closely  in  the  hollow  of  the  foot  by  a  cloth  bandage. 

Burdock-leaves,  cabbage-leaves,  and  mullen-leaves,  are  used  in  the  same 
manner,  to  alleviate  pain  and  promote  perspiration. 

GarUcs  are  also  made  for  draughts  by  pounding  them,  placing  them  on  a  hot 
tin  plate  for  a  moment  to  sweat  them,  and  binding  them  closely  to  the  hollow 
of  the  foot  by  a  cloth  bandage. 

Draughts  of  onions,  for  infants,  are  made  by  roasting  onions  in  hot  ashes, 
and,  when  they  are  quite  soft,  peeling  off  the  outside,  mashing  them,  and  apply- 
ing  them  on  a  cloth  as  usual 

POULTICES. 

A  Bread  and  Milk  Poultice. — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  crumbs  of  stale 
bread  into  a  gill  of  milk,  and  give  the  whole  one  boil  up.  Or,  take  stale  bread- 
crumbs, pour  over  them  boiling  water  and  boil  till  soft,  stirring  well;  take  firom 
the  fire  and  gradually  stir  in  a  little  glycerine  or  sweet  oil,  so  as  to  render  the 
poultice  phable  when  apphed. 

A  Hop  Poultice. — Boil  one  handful  of  dried  hops  in  half  a  pint  of  water, 
until  the  half  pint  is  reduced  to  a  gill,  then  stir  into  it  enough  Indian  meal  to 
thicken  it. 

A  Mustard  Poultice. — Into  one  gill  of  boiling  water  stir  one  tablespoonful  of 
Indian  meal;  spread  the  paste  thus  made  upon  a  cloth,  and  spread  over  the 
paste  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  fiour.  If  you  wish  a  mild  poultice,  use  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  as  it  is  prepared  for  the  table,  instead  of  the  mustard  flour. 

Equal  parts  of  ground  mustard  and  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  warm  water, 
and  spread  between  two  pieces  of  muslin,  form  the  indispensable  mustard 
plaster. 

A  Oinger  Poultice. — This  is  made  like  a  mustard  poultice,  using  ground 


430  FOR  THE  SICK. 

ginger  instead  Of  mustard.  A  little  vinegar  is  sometimes  added  to  each  of  fheee 
poultices. 

A  Stramonium  Poultice. — Stir  one  tablespoonful  of  Indian  meal  into  a  gOl  oC 
boiling  water^  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  bruised  stramonium  seeds. 

Wormwood  and  Arnica  are  sometimes  applied  in  poultices.  Steep  the  herbs 
in  lialf  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  when  all  theur  virtue  is  extracted  stir  in  a  litUe 
bran  or  rye-meal  to  thicken  the  liquid;  the  herbs  must  not  be  removed  from  the 
liquid. 

This  is  a  useful  application  for  sprains  and  bruises. 

Linseed  Poultice. — Take  four  ounces  of  powdered  linseed,  and  gradual^ 
sprinkle  it  into  a  half  pint  of  hot  water. 

A  REMEDY  FOR  BOILS. 

An  excellent  remedy  for  boils  is  water  of  a  temperature  agreeable  to  the 
feelings  of  the  patient.  Apply  wet  linen  to  the  part  affected,  and  frequently 
renew  or  moisten  it.  It  is  said  to  be  the  most  effectual  remedy  known.  Take 
inwardly  some  good  blood  purifier. 

CURE  FOR  RINGWORMS. 

Yellow  dock,  root  or  leaves,  steeped  in  vinegar,  will  cure  the  worst  case  of 
ringworm* 


HOW  COLDS  ARE  CAUGHT. 

A  great  many  cannot  see  why  it  is  they  do  not  take  a  cold  when  exposed  to 
cold  winds  and  rain.  The  fact  is,  and  ought  to  be  more  generally  understood, 
that  nearly  every  cold  is  contracted  indoors,  and  is  not  directly  due  to  the  cold 
outside,  but  to  the  heat  inside.  A  man  wfll  go  to  bed  at  night  feeling  as  well  as 
usual  and  get  up  in  the  morning  with  a  royal  cold.  He  goes  peeking  around  in 
search  of  cracks  and  keyholes  and  tiny  drafts.  Weather-strips  are  procured, 
and  the  house  made  as  tight  as  a  fruit  can.  In  a  few  days  more  the  whole 
family  has  colds. 

Let  a  man  go  home,  tired  or  exhausted,  eat  a  full  supper  of  starchy  and  vege- 
table food,  occupy  his  mind  intently  for  a  while,  go  to  bed  in  a  warm,  close 
room,  and  if  he  doesn't  have  a  cold  in  the  morning  it  will  be  a  wonder.  A  drink 
of  whiskey  or  a  glass  or  two  of  beer  before  supper  wiU  facilitate  matters  very 
much. 

People  swallow  more  colds  down  their  throats  than  they  inhale  or  receive 
from  contact  with  the  air,  no  matter  how  cold  or  chilly  it  may  be.  Plain,  hght 
suppers  are  good  to  go  to  bed  on,  and  are  far  more  conducive  to  refreshing 
sleep  than  a  glass  of  beer  or  a  dose  of  chloral.  La  the  estimation  of  a  great 
many  this  statement  is  rank  heresy,  but  in  the  Hght  of  science,  common  sense 
and  experience  it  is  gospel  truth. 

Pure  air  is  strictly  essential  to  maintain  perfect  health.  If  a  person  is  accus- 
tomed to  sleeping  with  the  windows  open  there  is  but  little  danger  of  taking  cold 
"Winter  or  sunmier.  Persons  that  shut  up  the  windows  to  keep  out  the  "  night 
air ''  make  a  mistake,  for  at  night  the  only  air  we  breathe  is  ''  night  air,  "  and 
we  need  good  air  while  asleep  as  much  or  even  more  than  at  any  other  time  of 
day.  Ventilation  can  be  accomplished  by  simply  opening  the  window  an  inch  at 
the  bottom  and  also  at  the  top,  thus  letting  the  pure  air  in,  the  bad  air  going 


432  HEALTH^SUGGESTIONS. 

outward  at  the  top.  dose,  foul  air  poisons  the  blood,  brings  on  disease  which 
often  results  in  death;  this  poisoning  of  the  blood  is  only  prevented  by  pure  air, 
which  enters  the  lungs,  becomes  charged  with  waste  particles,  then  thrown  out, 
and  which  are  poisoning  if  taken  back  again.  It  is  estimated  that  a  grown 
person  corrupts  (yiie  gallon  of  pure  air  every  minutej  or  twenty-five  barrels  full,  in 
a  single  night,  in  breathing  alone. 

Clothing  that  has  been  worn  through  the  day  should  be  changed  for  fresh 
or  dry  ones  to  sleep  in.  Three  pints  of  moisture,  filled  with  the  waste  of  the 
body,  are  given  off  every  twenty-four  hours,  and  this  is  mostly  absorbed  by  the 
clothing.  Sunlight  and  exposure  to  the  air  purifies  the  clothing  of  the  poisons 
which  nature  is  trying  to  dispose  of,  and  which  would  otherwise  be  brought 
again  into  contact  with  the  body. 

Colds  are  often  taken  by  extreme  cold  and  heat,  and  a  sudden  exposure  to 
cold  bypassing  from  a  heated  room  to  the  cold  outside  air.  Old  and  weak 
persons,  especially,  should  avoid  such  extreme  change.  In  passing  from  warm 
crowded  rooms  to  the  cold  air,  the  mouth  should  be  kept  closed,  and  all  the 
breathing  done  through  the  nostrils  only,  that  the  cold  air  may  be  warmed 
before  it  reaches  the  limgs,  or  else  the  sudden  change  will  drive  the  blood  from 
the  surface  of  the  internal  organs,  often  producing  congestions. 

Dr.  B.  I.  Kendall  writes  that  "  the  temperature  of  the  body  should  be  evenly 
and  properly  maintained  to  secure  perfect  health;  and  to  accomplish  this  purpose 
requires  great  care  and  caution  at  times.  The  human  body  is,  so  to  speak,  the 
most  delicate  and  intricate  piece  of  machinery  that  could  possibly  be  conceived 
of,  and  to  keep  this  in  perfect  order  requires  constant  care.  It  is  a  fixed  law  of 
Nature 'that  every  violation  thereof  shall  be  punished;  and  so  we  find  that  he 
who  neglects  to  care  for  his  body  by  protecting  it  from  sudden  changes  of 
weather,  or  draughts  of  cold  air  upon  improtected  parts  of  the  body,  suffers  the 
penalty  by  sickness,  which  may  vary  according  to  the  exposure  and  the  habits 
of  the  person,  which  affect  the  result  materially;  for  what  would  be  an  easy 
day's  work  for  a  man  who  is  accustomed  to  hard  labor,  would  be  sufficient  to 
excite  the  circulation  to  such  an  extent  in  a  person  unaccustomed  to  work,  that 
only  slight  exposure  might  cause  the  death  of  the  latter  when  over-heated  in  this 
way;  while  the  same  exercise  and  exposure  to  the  man  accustomed  to  hard  labor 
might  not  affect  him.  So,  we  say,  be  careful  of  your  bodies,  for  it  is  a  duty 
you  owe  to  yourselves,  your  friends,  and  particularly  to  Him  who  created  you. 
When  your  body  is  over-heated  and  you  are  perspiring,  be  very  careful  about 
sitting  down  to  ^  cool  off, '  as  the  custom  of  some  is,  by  removing  a  part  of  the 
clothing  and  sitting  in  a  cool  place,  and  perhaps  where  there  is  a  draught  of  air 


HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS,  433 

passing  over  your  body.  The  proper  way  to  *  cool  off '  when  over -heated  is  to 
put  on  more  clothing,  especially  if  you  are  in  a  cool  place;  but  never  remove  a 
I)art  of  the  clothing  you  have  already  on.  If  possible,  get  near  a  fire  where 
there  is  no  wind  blowing,  and  dry  of  gradually,  instead  of  cooling  off  suddenly, 
which  is  always  dangerous." 

Many  colds  are  taken  from  the  feet  being  damp  or  wet.  To  keep  these 
extremities  warm  and  dry  is  a  great  preventative  against  the  almost  endless  list 
of  disorders  which  come  from  a  ''  slight  cold.''  Many  imagine  if  their  feet  are 
not  thoroughly  wet,  there  will  be  no  harm  arising  from  mere  dampness,  not 
knowing  that  the  least  dampness  is  absorbed  into  the  sole,  and  is  attracted  nearer 
the  foot  itself  by  its  heat,  and  thus  perspiration  is  dangerously  checked. 

WATER. 

All  beings  need  drink  as  much  as  they  need  food,  and  it  is  just  as  necessary  to 
health  as  pure  air;  therefore  the  water  should  be  boiled  or  filtered  before  being 
drank.  Eain- water  filtered  is  probably  the  best  attainable.  Boiling  the  water 
destroys  the  vegetable  and  animal  matter,  and  leaves  the  mineral  matter  deposited 
on  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  containing  it;  therefore  it  leaves  it  clear  from  poison- 
ous substances. 

REGULATION  IN  DIET. 

The  food  we  eat  is  a  very  important  item,  and  one  which  it  would  be  difficult 
to  arrange  any  rule  for  which  would  apply  to  all  persons  under  different  cir- 
cumstances. In  health,  it  is  safer  to  eat  by  instinct  rather  than  to  follow  any 
definite  rules.  While  there  are  many  who  have  a  scanty  Uving,  with  a  small 
variety  of  food,  there  is  a  large  number  who  have  an  abundance  and  a  large 
variety.  The  former  class,  in  many  cases,  hve  miserable  lives,  either  to  hoard 
up  for  miserly  purposes  the  money  which  might  make  them  happy,  or  in  some 
cases  through  poverty;  while  the  latter  class,  as  a  rule,  have  better  health  and 
have  much  more  enjoyment  in  this  Ufe,  unless  it  be  some  who  are  gluttonous, 
and  make  themselves  miserable  by  abusing  the  blessings  they  should  enjoy. 
Avoid  extremes  in  Uving  too  free  or  scanty;  have  a  good  nourishing  diet,  and  a 
sufficient  quantity,  and  it  should  always  be  properly  cooked;  for  if  the  cooking 
is  poorly  done,  it  affects  riot  only  the  nutritious  qualities,  but  is  not  so  easily 
digested;  thus  making  food,  which  is  originally  the  best  kind,  of  very  Httle  value 
to  us;  and  with  very  poor  cooking  it  is  sometimes  a  positive  injury. 

It  is  very  important  that  the  food  be  taken  with  regularity  at  the  accustomed 
time.  Be  careful  not  to  take  too  much  drink  dinring  any  meal;  but,  if  thirsty, 
drink  water  before  meal-time  so  that  you  wiU  not  care  for  it  until  some  time 

28 


434  HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS. 

after  eatmg,  as  it  is  a  bad  plan  to  drink  much  either  during  or  for  a  little  time 

after  the  meal  is  taken.    It  is  a  very  bad  plan  to  hurry  in  eating,  because  by  so 

doing  the  food  is  not  properly  masticated;  it  is  better  to  be  a  long  time  in  eating 

and  chew  the  food  welL 

—Dr.  B.  I.  KxndaU,  Enosburg  HUls,  VI. 

HOW  TO  USE  HOT  WATER. 

One  of  the  simplest  and  most  effectual  means  of  reUeving  pain  is  by  the  use 
of  hot  water,  externally  and  internally,  the  temperature  varying  according  to 
the  feelings  of  the  patient.  For  bruises,  sprains,  and  similar  accidental  hurts,  it 
should  be  appUed  immediately,  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  by  means  of  a  cloth  dipped 
in  the  water  and  laid  on  the  woimded  part,  or  by  immersion,  if  convenient,  and 
the  treatment  kept  up  until  reUef  is  obtained.  If  applied  at  once,  the  use  of 
hot  water  will  generally  prevent,  nearly,  if  not  entirely,  the  bruised  flesh  from 
turning  black.  For  pains  resulting  from  indigestion,  and  known  as  wind  colic, 
etc.,  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  taken  in  sips,  will  often  relieve  at  once.  When  that 
is  insufficient,  a  flannel  folded  in  several  thicknesses,  large  enough  to  fully  cover 
the  painful  place,  should  be  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  laid  over  the  seat  of  the 
I)ain.  It  should  be  as  hot  as  the  skin  can  bear  without  injiny,  and  be  renewed 
every  ten  minutes  or  oftener,  if  it  feels  cool,  imtil  the  pain  is  gone.  The 
remedy  is  simple,  efficient,  harmless,  and  within  the  reach  of  every  one;  and 
should  be  more  generally  used  than  it  is.  If  used  along  with  common  sense,  it 
might  save  many  a  doctor's  bill,  and  many  a  course  of  drug  treatment  as  welL 

GROWING  PAINS  CURED. 

Following  in  our  mother's  footsteps,  we  have  been  routed  night  after  night 
from  our  warm  quarters,  in  the  dead  of  winter,  to  kindle  fires  and  fill  frosty  kettles 
from  water-pails  thickly  crusted  with  ice,  that  we  might  get  the  writhing  pedal 
extremities  of  our  little  heir  into  a  tub  of  water  as  quickly  as  possible.  But 
lately  we  have  learned  that  all  this  work  and  exposure  is  needless.  We  simply 
wring  a  towel  from  salted  water— a  bowl  of  it  standing  in  our  sleeping  room, 
reg^dy  for  such  an  emergency — wrap  the  limb  in  it  from  the  ankle  to  knee, 
without  taking  the  child  from  his  bed,  and  then  swathe  with  dry  flannels,  thick 
and  warm,  tucking  the  blankets  about  him  a  little  closer,  and  relief  is  sure. 

— Chod  Hoiiseheeping. 
HOW  TO  KEEP  WELL. 

Don't  sleep  in  a  draught. 
Don't  go  to  bed  with  cold  feet. 
Don't  stand  over  hot-air  registers. 


HEALTH^SUGGESTIONS.  435 

Don't  eat  what  you  do  not  need,  just  to  save  it. 

Don't  try  to  get  cool  too  quickly  after  exercising. 

Don't  sleep  in  a  room  without  ventilation  of  some  kind. 

Don't  stuflf  a  cold  lest  you  should  he  next  obliged  to  starve  a  fever. 

Don't  sit  in  a  damp  or  chilly  room  without  a  fire. 

Don't  try  to  get  along  without  flannel  underclothing  in  winter. 

DIPHTHERIA. 
A  gargle  of  sulphur  and  water  has  been  used  with  much  success  in  cases  of 
diphtheria.    Let  the  patient  swallow  a  little  of  the  mixture.    Or,  when  you  dis- 
cover that  your  throat  is  a  little  sore,  bind  a  strip  of  flannel  around  the  throat, 
wet  in  camphor,  and  gargle  salt  and  vinegar  occasionally. 

COLDS  AND  HOARSENESS. 

Borax  has  proved  a  most  effective  remedy  in  certain  forms  of  colds.  In 
sudden  hoarseness  or  loss  of  voice  in  public  speakers  or  singers,  from  colds,  rehef 
for  an  hour  or  so  may  be  obtained  by  slowly  dissolving,  and  partially  swallow- 
ing, a  lump  of  borax  the  size  of  a  garden  pea,  or  about  three  or  four  grains  held 
in  the  mouth  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  speaking  or  singing.  This  pro- 
duces a  profuse  secretion  of  saliva,  or  "  watering  "  of  the  mouth  and  throat,  just 
as  wetting  brings  back  the  missing  notes  to  a  flute  when  it  is  too  dry. 

A  flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water,  and  sprinkled  with  turpentine,  laid  on  the 
chest  as  quickly  as  possible,  will  relieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarseness. 

Another  simple,  pleasant  remedy  is  furnished  by  beating  up  the  white  of  one 
^gg>  adding  to  it  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  sweetening  with  white  sugar  to 
taste.  Take  a  teaspoonful  from  time  to  time.  It  has  been  known  to  effectually 
cure  the  ailment. 

Or,  bake  a  lemon  or  sour  orange  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
done,  open  at  one  end  and  take  out  the  inside.  Sweeten  with  sugar  or  molasses. 
This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  hoarseness. 

An  old  time  and  good  way  to  relieve  a  cold  is  to  go  to  bed,  and  stay  there, 
drinking  nothing j  not  even  water,  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  eating  as  little  as 
possible.  Or,  go  to  bed;  put  your  feet  in  hot  mustard  and  water;  put  a  bran  or 
oatmeal  poultice  on  the  chest;  take  ten  grains  of  Dover's  powder,  and  an  hour 
afterwards  a  pint  of  hot  gruel;  in  the  morning,  rub  the  body  all  over  with  a 
coarse  towel,  and  take  a  dose  of  aperient  medicine. 

Violet,  pennyroyal,  or  boneeet  tea,  is  excellent  to  promote  perspiration  in 
case  of  sudden  chill.  Care  should  be  taken  next  day  not  to  get  chilled  by 
exposure  to  fresh  out-door  air. 


436  HEALTH'SUGGESTIONS. 

MOLASSES  POSSET. 

This  old-fashioned  remedy  for  a  cold  is  as  effectual  now  as  it  was  in  old 
times.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  pint  of  the  best  West  India  molasses,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  white  ginger,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter.  Set  it 
over  the  fire,  and  simmer  it  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  it  frequently.  Do 
not  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Then  stir  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar;  cover  the  pan  and  let  it  stand  by  the  fire  five  minutes 
longer.  This  is  good  for  a  cold.  Some  of  it  may  be  taken  warm  at  once,  and 
the  remainder  kept  at  hand  for  occasional  use. 

It  is  the  preparation  absin^y  called  by  the  common  people  a  stefimd  gpuxker. 

Half  a  pint  of  strained  honey  mixed  cold  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil,  is  another  remedy  for  a  cold:  a  teaspoonful  or  two  to 
be  taken  whenever  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

COUGH  SYRUP. 

Syrup  of  squills  four  ounces,  syrup  of  tolu  four  oimces,  tincture  of  bloodroot 
one  and  one-half  ounces,  camphorated  tincture  of  opium  four  ounces.  Mix. 
Dose  for  an  adult,  one  teaspoonful  repeated  every  two  to  tour  hours,  or  as  often 
as  necessary. 

LEANNESS 

Is  caused  generally  by  lack  of  power  in  the  digestive  organs  to  digest  and 
assimilate  the  fat-producing  elements  of  food.  First  restore  digestion,  take 
plenty  of  sleep,  drink  aU  the  water  the  stomach  will  bear  in  the  morning  on 
rising,  take  moderate  exercise  in  the  open  air,  eat  oatmeal  cracked  wheat, 
Graham  mush,  baked  sweet  apples,  roasted  and  broiled  beef;  cultivate  jolly 
people,  and  bathe  daily. 

FOR  TOOTHACHE. 

The  worst  toothache,  or  neuralgia  coming  from  the  teeth,  may  be  speedily 
and  delightfully  ended  by  the  application  of  a  bit  of  clean  cotton,  saturated  in  a 
solution  of  ammonia,  to  the  defective  tooth.  Sometimes  the  late  sufferer  is 
prompted  to  momentary  laughter  by  the  application,  but  the  pain  will  disappear. 

j^lum  reduced  to  a  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  the  powder  and  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  fine  salt  well  mixed,  applied  to  the  gums  by  dipping  your  moistened  finger 
in  the  mixed  powder;  put  some  also  in  the  tooth,  and  keep  rubbing  the  gums 
with  it;  it  scarcely  ever  fails  to  cure. 


HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS.  43  7 

TO  CURE  A  STING  OF  A  BEE  OR  WASP. 
Bind  on  common  baMng-soda,  dampened  with  water.    Or  mix  common  earth 
with  water  to  about  the  consistency  of  mud. 

TO  CURE  EARACHE. 

Take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  on  it  a  pinch  of  black  pepper^  gather  it  up 
and  tie  it,  dip  it  in  sweet  oil,  and  insert  it  in  the  ear;  put  a  flannel  bandage  over 
the  head  to  keep  it  warm;  it  often  gives  immediate  rehef . 

Tobacco  smoke,  puffed  into  the  ear,  has  oftentimes  been  effectual. 

Another  remedy:  Take  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  opiimi  and  glycerine.  Mix, 
and  from  a  warm  teaspoon  drop  two  or  three  drops  into  the  ear,  and  stop  the 
ear  tight  with  cotton,  and  repeat  every  hour  or  two.  If  matter  should  form  in 
the  ear,  make  a  suds  with  castile  soap  and  warm  water  about  100"^  F.,  or  a  Uttle 
more  than  milk  warm,  and  have  some  person  iQJect  it  into  the  ear  while  you 
hold  that  side  of  the  head  the  lowest.  If  it  does  not  heal  in  due  time,  inject  a 
httle  carbohc  acid  and  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  drachm  of  the  acid  to  one 
pint  of  warm  water  each  time  after  using  the  suds. 

CROUP. 

Croup,  it  is  said,  can  be  cured  in  one  minute,  and  the  remedy  is  simply  alum 
and  sugar.  Take  a  knife  or  grater,  and  shave  off  in  small  particles  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  alum;  then  mix  it  with  twice  its  amount  of  sugar,  to  make  it  palata- 
ble, and  administer  it  as  quickly  as  possible.  Almost  instantaneous  rehef  wiU 
follow.  Turpentine  is  said  to  be  an  excellent  remedy  for  croup.  Saturate  a 
piece  of  flannel,  and  apply  it  to  the  chest  and  throat,  and  take  inwardly  three 
or  four  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar. 

Another  remedy , — Give  a  teaspoonful  of  ipecacuanha  wine  every  few  minutes, 
imtil  free  vomiting  is  excited. 

Another  recipe  said  to  be  most  reliable:  Take  two  ounces  of  the  wine  of 
ipecac,  hive  syrup  four  ounces,  tincture  of  bloodroot  two  oimces.    Mix  it  well. 

Dose,  for  a  child  one  year  old,  five  to  ten  drops;  two  years,  eight  to  twelve 
drops;  three  years,  twelve  to  fifteen  drops;  four  years  old,  fifteen  to  twenty 
drops;  five  years  old  twenty  to  twenty-five  drops,  and  older  children  in  propor- 
tion to  age.  Eepeat  as  often  as  shall  be  necessary  to  procure  rehef.  If  it  is 
thought  best  to  produce  vomiting,  repeat  the  dose  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
for  a  few  doses. 


438  HEALTH'SUGGESIIONS. 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS. 
A  piece  of  cotton  wadding,  spread  with  butter  or  sweet  oil,  and  bound  on  the 
bum  instantly,  will  draw  out  the  pain  without  leaving  a  scar;  also  a  handful  of 
flour,  bound  on  instantly,  will  prevent  blistering.  The  object  is  to  entirely  exclude 
the  air  from  the  part  affected.  Some  use  common  baking-soda,  dry  or  wet, 
often  giving  instant  relief,  withdrawing  the  heat  and  pain.  Another  valuable 
remedy  is  to  beat  the  yellow  of  an  egg  into  linseed  oil,  and  apply  it  with  a  feather 
on  the  injured  part  frequently.  It  will  afford  ready  relief,  and  heals  with  great 
rapidity.  Some  reconunend  the  white  part  of  the  ^^,  which  is  very  cooling  and 
soothing,  and  soon  allays  the  smarting  pain.  It  is  the  exposure  of  the  part 
coming  in  contact  with  the  air  that  gives  the  extreme  discomfort  experienced 
from  ordinary  afflictions  of  this  kind,  and  anything  which  excludes  air  and  pre- 
vents inflammation  is  the  thing  to  be  at  once  appUed. 

TO  STOP  THE  FLOW  OF  BLOOD. 

For  a  slight  cut  there  is  nothing  better  to  control  the  hemorrhage  than  com- 
mon unglazed  brown  wrapping  paper,  such  as  is  used  by  marketmen  and  giocers; 
a  piece  to  be  bound  over  the  wound.  A  handful  of  flour  bound  on  the  cut. 
Cobwebs  and  brown  sugar,  pressed  on  like  lint.  When  the  blood  ceases  to  flow^ 
apply  arnica  or  laudanum. 

When  an  artery  is  cut  the  red  blood  spurts  out  at  each  pulsation.  Press  the 
thumb  firmly  over  the  artery  near  the  wound,  and  on  the  side  towards  the  heart. 
Press  hard  enough  to  stop  the  bleeding,  and  wait  till  a  physician  comes.  The 
wounded  person  is  often  able  to  do  this  himself,  if  he  has  the  requisite  knowledge. 

GRAVEL. 

Into  a  pint  of  water  put  two  oimces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda.  Take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  in  the  early  forenoon,  and  the  same  towards  night;  also  drink  freely 
of  water  through  the  day.  Inflammation  of  the  kidneys  has  been  successfully 
treated  with  large  doses  of  lime-water. 

Persons  troubled  with  kidney  difficulties  should  abstain  from  sugar  and 
things  that  are  converted  into  sugar  in  digestion,  such  as  starchy  food  and  sweet 
vegetables. 

SORE  THROAT. 

Everybody  has  a  cure  for  this  trouble,  but  simple  remedies  appear  to  be  most 
effectual.  Salt  and  water  is  used  by  many  as  a  gargle,  but  a  little  alum  and 
honey  dissolved  in  sage  tea  is  better.    An  application  of  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot 


HEALTH'SUGGESTIONS.  439 

water  and  applied  to  the  neck,  changing  as  often  as  they  begin  to  cool,  has  the 
most  potency  for  removing  inflammation  of  anything  we  ever  tried.  It  should 
be  kept  up  for  a  number  of  hours;  during  the  evening  is  usually  the  most  con* 
venient  time  for  applying  this  remedy. 

Cut  sUces  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon,  simmer  a  few  moments  in  hot  vinegar, 
and  apply  to  throat  as  hot  aa  possible.  When  this  is  taken  off,  as  the  throat  is 
relieved,  put  around  a  bandage  of  soft  flannel.  A  gargle  of  equal  parts  of  borax 
and  almn,  dissolved  in  water,  is  also  excellent.    To  be  used  frequently. 

Camphorated  oil  is  an  excellent  lotion  for  sore  throat,  sore  chest,  aching 
limbs,  etc.  For  a  gargle  for  sore  throat,  put  a  pinch  of  chlorate  of  potash  in  a 
glass  of  water.    Gargle  the  throat  with  it  tvnce  a  day^  or  oftener,  if  necessary. 

WHOOPING  COUGH. 

Two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  alum;  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  dissolved  in  two  quarts  of  water;  bottle  and  put  in  a  dark  closet  where  it 
is  cool. 

For  a  child  one  year  old,  a  teaspoonful  three  times  a  day  on  an  empty  stomach. 
For  a  child  two  years  old,  two  teaspoonf uls  for  a  dose.  For  a  child  five  years 
old,  a  tablespoonful.  The  state  of  the  bowels  must  be  attended  to,  and  the  doses 
repeated  accordingly.  No  other  medicine  to  be  taken,  except  an  emetic,  at  first, 
if  desirable.    Except  in  the  case  of  an  infant,  a  milk  diet  is  to  be  avoided. 

DIARRHCEA. 

« 

Take  tincture  of  Jamaica  ginger  one  ounce,  tincture  of  rhubarb  one  oimce, 
tinctinre  of  opium  half  ounce,  tincture  of  cardamom  one  and  one-half  otmces, 
tincture  of  kino  one  ounce.  Mix.  Dose  for  an  adult,  half  to  one  teaspoonful, 
repeated  every  two  to  forur  hours;  and  for  childre$n  one  year  old,  five  drops; 
two  years  old,  five  to  ten  drops;  three  years  old,  ten  to  twelve  drops,  and  older 
children  in  proportion  to  age. 

FOR  CONSTIPATION. 

One  or  two  figs  eaten  fasting  is  sufficient  for  some,  and  they  are  especially  good 
in  the  case  of  children,  as  there  is  no  trouble  in  getting  them  to  take  them.  A 
spoonful  of  wheaten  bran  in  a  glass  of  water  is  a  simple  remedy,  and  quite 
effective,  taken  half  an  hour  before  breakfast;  fruit  eaten  raw;  partake  largely  of 
laxative  food;  exercise  in  the  open  air;  drink  freely  of  cold  water  during  the  day, 
etc.  It  is  impossible  to  give  many  of  the  numerous  treatments  in  so  short  a 
space,  suffice  it  to  say  that  the  general  character  of  our  diet  and  experience  is 


440  HEALTH^SUGGESTIONS. 

such  as  to  assure  us  that  at  least  one-quarter  of  the  food  that  we  swallow  is 
intended  by  nature  to  be  evacuated  from  the  system;  and  if  it  is  not,  it  is  again 
absorbed  into  the  system,  poisoning  the  blood  and  producing  much  suffering  and 
permanent  disease.  The  evacuation  of  the  bowels  daily ^  and  above  all,  regularly, 
is  therefore  all  important  to  add  this  form  of  disorder. 

RELIEF  FROM  ASTHMA. 

Sufferers  from  asthma  should  get  a  muskrat  skin  and  wear  it  over  their  lungs, 
with  the  fur  side  next  to  the  body.    It  will  bring  certain  relief. 

Or,  soak  blotting-paper  in  saltpetre  water,  then  dry,  burning  at  night  in 
the  patient's  bedroom. 

Another  excellent  recipe :  Take  powdered  liquorice  root,  powdered  elecampane 
root,  powdered  anise-seed,  each  one  drachm,  powdered  ipecac  ten  grains,  powder- 
ed lobelia  ten  grains;  add  sufficient  amoimt  of  tar  to  form  into  pills  of  ordinary 
size.  Take  three  or  four  pills  on  going  to  bed  at  night.  An  excellent  remedy 
for  asthma  or  shortness  of  breath. 

RECIPES  FOR  FELONS. 

Take  common  rock  salt,  as  used  for  salting  down  pork  or  beef,  dry  in  an 
oven,  then  pound  it  fine  and  mix  with  spirits  of  turpentine  in  equal  parts;  put 
it  in  a  rag  and  wrap  it  around  the  parts  affected;  as  it  gets  dry  put  onmore,  and 
in  twenty-four  hours  you  are  cured.    The  felon  will  be  dead. 

Or  purchase  the  herb  of  stramonium  at  the  druggist's;  steep  it  and  bind  it 
on  the  felon;  as  soon  as  cold,  put  on  new,  warm  herbs.  It  will  soon  kill  it,  in  a 
few  hours  at  least. 

Or  saturate  a  bit  oi  grated  wild  turnip,  the  size  of  a  oean,  with  spirits  of 
turpentine,  and  apply  it  to  the  affected  part.  It  relieves  the  pain  at  once;  in 
twelve  hours  there  will  be  a  hole  to  the  bone,  and  the  felon  destroyed;  then 
apply  healing  salve,  and  the  finger  is  weU. 

Another  way  to  cure  a  Felon :  Fill  a  tumbler  with  equal  parts  of  fine  salt  and 
ice;  mix  well.  Sink  the  finger  in  the  centre,  allow  it  to  remain  until  it  is  nearly 
frozen  and  numb;  then  withdraw  it,  and  when  sensation  is  restored,  renew  the 
operation  four  or  five  times,  when  it  will  be  found  the  disease  is  destroyed. 
This  must  be  done  before  pus  is  formed. 

A  simple  remedy  for  felons,  relieving  pain  at  once,  no  poulticing,  no  cutting, 
no  "holes  to  the  bone,"  no  necessity  for  healing  salve,  but  simple  oil  of  cedar 
applied  a  few  times  at  the  commencement  of  the  felon,  and  the  work  is  done. 


HEALTH'SUGGESTIONS.  441 

REMEDY  FOR  LOCKJAW. 

K  any  person  is  threatened  or  taken  with  lockjaw  from  injuries  of  the  arms, 
legs  or  feet,  do  not  wait  for  a  doctor,  but  put  the  part  injured  in  the  following 
preparation:  Put  hot  wood-ashes  into  water  as  warm  as  can  be  borne;  if  the 
injured  part  cannot  be  put  into  water,  then  wet  thick  folded  cloths  in  the  water 
and  apply  them  to  the  part  as  soon  as  possible,  at  the  same  time  bathe  the  back- 
bone from  the  neck  down  with  some  laxative  stimulant — say  cayenne  pepper 
and  water,  or  mustard  and  water  (good  vinegar  is  better  than  water);  it  should 
be  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear  it.  Don't  hesitate;  go  to  work  and  do  it,  and 
don't  stop  until  the  jaws  will  come  open.  No  person  need  die  of  lockjaw  if  these 
directions  are  followed. 

Cure,  for  LockjaWj  said  to  be  positive. — Let  any  one  who  has  an  attack  of 
lockjaw  take  a  small  quantity  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  warm  it,  and  pour  it  in 
the  wound — no  matter  where  the  wound  is  or  what  its  nature  is — ^and  reUef  will 
follow  in  less  than  one  minute.  Turpentine  is  also  a  sovereign  remedy  for  croup. 
Saturate  a  piece  of  flannel  with  it,  and  place  the  flannel  on  the  throat  and  chest 
— and  in  very  severe  cases,  three  to  five  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar  may  be  taken, 
internally. 

BLEEDING  AT  THE  NOSE. 

Roll  up  a  piece  of  paper  and  press  it  under  the  upper  hp.  In  obstinate  cases, 
blow  a  little  gum  arabic  up  the  nostril  through  a  quill,  which  will  immediately 
stop  the  discharge;  powdered  alimi,  dissolved  in  water,  is  also  good.  Pressing 
by  the  finger  over  the  small  artery  near  the  ala  (wing)  of  the  nose,  on  the  side 
where  the  blood  is  flowing,  is  said  to  arrest  the  hemorrhage  immediately.  Some- 
times by  wringing  a  cloth  out  of  very  hot  water,  and  laying  it  on  the  back  of 
the  neck,  gives  rehef .  Napkins  wrung  out  of  cold  water  must  be  laid  across  the- 
forehead  and  nose,  the  hands  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  a  bottle  of  hot  water 
apphed  to  the  feet. 

TO  TAKE  CINDERS  FROM  THE  EYE- 

In  most  cases  a  simple  and  effective  cure  may  be  found  in  one  or  two  grains 
of  flax-seed,  which  can  be  placed  in  the  eye  without  pain  or  injrny.  As  they 
dissolve,  a  glutinous  substance  is  formed,  which  envelops  any  foreign  body  that 
may  be  under  the  lid,  and  the  whole  is  easily  washed  out.  A  dozen  of  these 
seeds  should  constitute  a  part  of  every  traveller's  outfit. 

Another  remedy  for  removing  objects  from  the  eye:  Take  a  horsehair  and 
double  it,  leaving  a  loop.    If  the  object  can  be  seen,  lay  the  loop  over  it,  close : 


442  HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS. 

the  eye,  and  the  mote  will  come  out  as  the  hair  is  withdrawn.  If  the  irritating 
object  cannot  be  seen,  raise  the  hd  of  the  eye  as  high  as  possible  and  place  the 
loop  as  far  as  you  can,  close  the  eye  and  roll  the  ball  around  a  few  times,  draw 
out  the  hair,  and  the  substance  which  caused  the  pain  will  be  sure  to  come  with 
it.    This  method  is  practiced  by  axemakers  and  other  workers  in  steel 

— MofdrwA  Star. 

EYE-WASHES. 

The  best  eye-wash  for  granulated  hds  and  inflammation  of  the  eyes  is  com- 
posed of  camphor,  borax  and  morphine,  in  the  following  proportions:  To  a  large 
wine-glass  of  camphor  water— not  spirits — ^add  two  grains  of  morphine  and  six 
grains  of  borax.  Pour  a  few  drops  into  the  palm  of  the  hand,  and  hold  the  eye 
in  it,  opening  the  lid  as  much  as  possible.  Do  this  three  or  four  times  in 
twenty-four  hours,  and  you  will  receive  great  relief  from  pain  and  smarting 
soreness.  This  recipe  was  received  from  a  celebrated  oculist,  and  has  never 
failed  to  relieve  the  most  inflamed  eyes. 

Another  remedy  said  to  be  reliable:  A  limip  of  alum  as  large  as  a  cranberry 
boiled  in  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  the  curd  used  as  a  poultice,  is  excellent 
for  inflammation  of  the  eyes. 

Another  wash  :  A  centos  worth  of  pure,  refined  white  copperas,  dissolved  in 
a  pint  of  water,  is  also  a  good  lotion;  but  label  it  poisouy  as  it  should  never 
go  near  the  mouth.  Bathe  the  eyes  with  the  mixture,  either  with  the  hands  or 
a  small  piece  of  linen  doth,  allowing  some  of  the  liquid  to  get  under  the  lids. 

Here  is  another  from  an  eminent  oculist :  Take  half  an  ounce  of  rock  salt  and 
one  ounce  of  dry  sulphate  of  zinc ;  simmer  in  a  dean,  covered  porcelain  vessel 
with  three  pints  of  water  until  all  are  dissolved;  strain  through  thick  muslin; 
add  one  ounce  of  rose-water;  bottle  and  cork  it  tight.  To  use  it,  mix  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  rain-water  with  one  of  the  eye- water,  and  bathe  the  eyes  frequent- 
ly.   If  it  smarts  too  much,  add  more  water. 

SUNSTROKE. 

Wrap  a  wet  cloth  bandage  over  the  head;  wet  another  cloth,  folded  small, 
square,  cover  it  thickly  with  salt,  and  bind  it  on  to  the  back  of  the  neck;  apply 
dry  salt  behind  the  ears.  Put  mustard  plasters  to  the  calves  of  the  logs  and 
soles  of  the  feet.    This  is  an  effectual  remedy. 

TO  REMOVE  WARTS. 

Wash  with  water  saturated  with  common  washing-soda,  and  let  it  dry  with- 
out wiping;  repeat  frequently  until  they  disappear.    Or  pass  a  pin  through  the 


HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS.  443 

wart  and  hold  one  end  of  it  over  the  flame  of  a  candle  or  lamp  until  the  wart 
fires  by  the  heat,  and  it  will  disappear. 

Another  treatment  of  warts  is  to  pare  the  hard  and  dry  skin  from  their  tops, 
and  then  touch  them  with  the  smallest  drop  of  strong  acetic  acid,  taking  care 
that  the  acid  does  not  run  off  the  wart  upon  the  neighboring  skin;  for  if  it  does, 
it  will  occasion  inflammation  and  much  pam.  If  this  is  continued  once  or  twice 
daily,  with  regularity,  paring  the  surface  of  the  wart  occasionally  when  it  gets 
hard  and  dry,  the  wart  will  be  soon  effectually  cured. 

SWAIM'S  VERMIFUGE. 

Worm  seed,  two  ounces;  valerian,  rhubarb,  pink  root,  white  agaric,  senna, 
of  each  one  ounce  and  a  half.  Boil  in  suflicient  water  to  yield  three  quarts  of 
decoction.  Now  add  to  it  ten  drops  of  the  oil  of  tansy  and  forty-five  drops  of 
the  oil  of  cloves,  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  rectified  spirit.  Dose:  one  tablespoonful 
at  night. 

FAINTING.    (Syncope.) 

Immediately  place  the  person  fainting  in  a  lying  position,  with  head  lower 
than  body.  In  this  way  consciousness  returns  immediately,  while  in  the  erect 
position  it  often  ends  in  death. 

FOR  SEVERE  SPRAINS. 

The  white  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  spirits 
of  turpentine.  Mix  in  a  bottle,  shake  thoroughly,  and  bathe  the  sprain  as  soon 
as  possible  after  the  accident.  This  was  published  in  Life  SecretSy  but  it  is 
republished  by  request  on  account  of  its  great  value.  It  should  be  remembered 
by  every  one. 

An  invaluable  remedy  for  a  sprain  or  bruise  is  wormwood  boiled  in  vinegar 
and  appUed  hot,  with  enough  cloths  wrapped  around  it  to  keep  the  sprain  moist. 

CAMPHORATED  OIL. 

Best  oil  of  Lucca;  gum  camphor.  Pound  some  gum  camphor  and  fiU  a  wide- 
necked  pint  bottle  one-third  full;  fill  up  with  oUve  oil,  and  set  away  until  the 
camphor  is  absorbed.  Excellent  lotion  for  sore  chest,  sore  throat,  aching  limbs, 
etc. 

LINIMENT  FOR  CHILBLAINS. 

Spirits  of  turpentine,  three  drachms;  camphorated  oil,  nine  drachms. 

Mix  for  a  hniment.  For  an  adult  four  drachms  of  the  former  and  eight  of 
the  latter  may  be  used.  If  the  child  be  young,  or  if  the  skin  be  tender,  the 
camphorated  oil  may  be  used  without  the  turpentine. 


444  HEALTH^SUGGESTIONS. 

"THE  SUN'S"  CHOLERA  MIXTURE. 

More  than  f orfcy  years  ago,  when  it  was  found  that  prevention  for  the  Asiatic 
cholera  was  easier  than  cure,  the  learned  doctors  of  both  hemispheres  drew  up 
a  prescription,  which  was  published  (for  working  people)  in  2%6  New  York  Sun^ 
and  took  the  name  of  ^^  Th^  Sun  Cholera  Mixture.^^  It  is  found  to  be  the  best 
remedy  for  looseness  of  the  bowels  ever  yet  devised.  It  is  to  be  commended  for 
several  reasons.  It  is  not  to  be  mixed  with  liquor,  and  t];ieref ore  will  not  be  use<) 
as  an  alcoholic  beverage.  Its  ingredients  are  well  known  among  all  the  commoi^ 
people,  and  it  will  have  no  prejudice  to  combat;  each  of  the  materials  is  in  equal 
proportions  to  the  others,  and  it  may  therefore  be  compounded  without  pra 
fessional  skill;  and  as  the  dose  is  so  very  small,  it  may  be  carried  in  a  tiny  phial 
in  the  waistcoat  pocket,  and  be  always  at  hand.    It  is: 

Take  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  cayenne,  tincture  of  opitmi,  tincture  of  rhu- 
barb, essence  of  peppermint,  and  spirits  of  camphor.  Mix  weH  Dose  fifte^ 
to  thirty  drops  in  a  wine-glass  of  water,  according  to  age  and  violence  of  the 
attack.  Bepeat  every  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  until  relief  is  obtained.  No  one 
who  takes  it  in  time  will  ever  have  the  cholera.  Even  when  no  cholera  is  antici- 
pated, it  is  a  valuable  remedy  for  ordinary  sununer  complaints,  and  should 
always  be  kept  in  readiness. 

COMR  CATHARTIC  ELIXIR. 

The  only  pleasant  and  reliable  cathartic  in  liquid  form  that  can  be  prescribed. 

Each  fluid  ounce  contains:  sulpb.  magnesia  one  dr.,  senna  two  drs.,  scam^ 
mony  six  grs.,  liquorice  one  dr.,  ginger  three  grs.,  coriander,  fivegrs.,  withflavor* 
ing  ingredients. 

Dose. — Child  five  years  old,  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls;  adult,  one  or  two  table^ 
spoonfuls. 

This  preparation  is  being  used  extensively  throughout  the  country.  It  was 
originated  with  the  design  of  furnishing  a  liquid  cathartic  remedy  that  could  be 
prescribed  in  a  palatable  form.    It  will  be  taken  by  children  with  a  relish. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  COUGH  SYRUP. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  dry  hoarhound  herbs,  one  pod  of  red  pepper,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ginger,  boil  all  in  three  quarts  of  water,  then  strain;  and  add  odb 
teaspoonful  of  good,  fresh  tar  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  slowly  and  stir  often, 
until  it  is  reduced  to  one  quart  of  syrup.  When  cool,  bottle  for  use.  Take  one 
or  two  teaspoonfuls  four  or  six  times  a  day. 


HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS.  445 

GRANDMOTHER'S  UNIVERSAL  LINIMENT. 

One  pint  of  alcohol,  and  as  much  camphor  gmn  as  can  be  dissolved  in  it,  half 
an  ounce  of  the  oil  of  cedar,  one-half  oimce  of  the  oil  of  sassafras,  aqua  ammo- 
nia, half  an  ounce,  and  the  same  amount  of  the  tincture  of  morphine.  Shake 
well  together,  and  apply  by  the  fire;  the  liniment  must  not  be  heated,  or  come 
in  contact  with  the  fire,  but  the  rubbing  to  be  done  by  the  warmth  of  the  fire. 

These  recipes  of  Grandmother's  are  all  old,  tried  medicines,  and  are  more 
effectual  than  most  of  those  that  are  advertised,  as  they  have  been  thoroughly 
tried,  and  proved  reliable. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  FAMILY  SPRING  BITTERS. 

Mandrake  root,  one  ounce;  dandelion  root,  one  ounce;  burdock  root,  one 
ounce;  yellow  dock  root,  one  ounce;  prickly  ash  berries,  two  ounces;  marsh  mal- 
low, one  ounce;  turkey  rhubarb,  half  an  ounce;  gentian,  one  ounce;  English 
camomile  flowers,  one  ounce;  red  clover  tops,  two  ounces. 

Wash  the  herbs  and  roots;  put  them  into  an  earthen  vessel,  pour  over  two 
quarts  of  water  that  has  been  boiled  and  cooled;  let  it  stand  over  night  and  soak; 
in  the  morning,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  steep  it  five  hours;  it  must 
not  boil,  but  nearly  ready  to  boil.  Strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and  add  half  a  pint 
of  good  gin.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Half  a  wine-glass  taken  as  a  dose  twice 
a  day. 

This  is  better  than  all  the  patent  blood-medicines  that  are  in  the  market— a 
superior  blood  purifier,  and  will  cure  almost  any  malignant  sore,  by  taking 
according  to  direction,  and  washing  the  sore  with  a  strong  tea  of  red  raspberry 
leaves  steeped,  first  washing  the  sore  with  castile  soap,  then  drying  with  a  soft 
cloth,  and  washing  it  with  the  strong  tea  of  red  raspberry  leaves. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  EYE-WASH. 

Take  three  fresh  eggs,  and  break  them  into  one  quart  of  clear,  cold  rain- 
water; stir  until  thoroughly  mixed;  bring  to  a  boil  on  a  slow  fire,  stirring  often; 
then  add  half  an  ounce  of  sulphate  of  zinc  (white  vitriol);  continue  the  boiling 
for  two  minutes,  then  set  it  off  the  fire.  Take  the  curd  that  settles  at  the 
bottom  of  this  and  apply  to  the  eye  at  night  with  a  bandage.  It  wiU  speedily 
draw  out  all  fever  and  soreness.  Strain  the  liquid  through  a  cloth  and  use  for 
bathing  the  eyes  occasionally.  This  is  the  best  eye- water  ever  made  for  man 
or  beast.    I  have  used  it  for  twenty  years  without  knowing  it  to  fail. 


446  HEALTH'SUGGESTIONS. 

HUNTER'S  PILLS. 

These  pills  can  be  manufactured  at  homey  and  are  trviy  reliable^  having  been 
sold  and  used  for  more  than  fifty  years  in  Europe.  The  ingredients  may  be  pro- 
cured at  almost  any  druggist's.  The  articles  should  be  all  in  the  powder.  Saffron^ 
one  grain;  rue,  one  grain;  Scot  aloes,  two  grains;  savin  one  grain;  cayenne 
pepper,  one  grain :  Mix  all  into  a  very  thick  mass  by  adding  sufficient  syrup. 
Bub  some  fine  starch  on  the  surface  of  a  platter  or  large  dinner-plate,  then  with 
your  forefinger  and  thumb  nip  off  a  small  piece  of  the  mass  the  size  of  a  pill  and 
roll  it  in  pill  form,  first  dipping  your  fingers  in  the  starch.  Place  them  as  fast 
as  made  on  the  platter,  set  where  they  will  dry  slowly.  Put  them  into  a  dry 
bottle  or  paper  box.  Dose,  one  every  night  and  morning  as  long  as  occasion 
requires. 

This  recipe  is  worth  ten  times  the  price  of  this  book  to  any  female  requiring 
the  need  of  these  regulating  pills. 

HINTS  IN  REGARD  TO  HEALTH. 

It  is  plainly  seen  by  an  inquiring  mind  that,  aside  from  the  selection  and 
preparation  of  food,  ther^  are  many  little  things  constantly  arising  in  the  experi- 
ence of  every-day  life  which,  in  their  combined  effect,  are  powerful  agents  in 
the  formation  (or  prevention)  of  perfect  health.  A  careful  observance  of  these 
little  occurrences,  an  inquiry  into  the  philosophy  attending  them,  lies  within  the 
province,  and  indeed  should  be  considered  among  the  highest  duties,  of  every 
housekeeper. 

That  one  should  be  cautious  about  entering  a  sick  room  in  a  state  of  perspira- 
tion, as  the  moment  you  become  cool  your  pores  absorb.  Do  not  approach  con- 
tagious diseases  with  an  empty  stomach,  nor  sit  between  the  sick  and  the  fire, 
because  the  heat  attracts  the  vapor. 

That  the  fiavor  of  cod-liver  oil  may  be  changed  to  the  delightful  one  of  fresh 
oyster,  if  the  patient  will  drink  a  large  glass  of  water  poured  from  a  vessel  in 
which  nails  have  been  allowed  to  rust. 

That  a  bag  of  hot  sand  relieves  neuralgia. 

That  warm  borax  water  will  remove  dandruff. 

That  salt  should  be  eaten  with  nuts  to  aid  digestion. 

That  it  rests  you,  in  sewing,  to  change  your  position  frequently. 

That  a  little  soda  water  will  relieve  sick  headache  caused  by  indigestion. 

That  a  cupful  of  strong  coffee  will  remove  the  odor  of  onions  from  the  breaih« 

That  well-ventilated  bedrooms  will  prevent  morning  headaches  and  lassitude. 

A  cupful  of  hot  water,  drank  before  meals  will  relieve  nausea  and  dyspepsia. 


HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS.  447 

That  a  fever  patient  can  be  made  cool  and  comfortable  by  frequent  sponging 
off  with  soda  water. 

That  consumptive  night-sweats  may  be  arrested  by  sponging  the  body  nightly 
in  salt  water. 

That  one  in  a  faint  should  be  laid  flat  on  his  back,  then  loosen  his  clothes  and 
let  him  alone. 

The  best  time  to  bathe  is  just  before  going  to  bed,  as  any  danger  of  taking 
cold  is  thus  avoided;  and  the  complexion  is  improved  by  keeping  warm  for 
several  hours  after  leaving  the  bath. 

To  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  quickly  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Salt  cools,  and  cold 
eggs  froth  rapidly. 

Hot,  dry  flannels,  applied  as  hot  as  possible,  for  neuralgia. 

Sprains  and  bruises  call  for  an  apphcation  of  the  tincture  of  arnica. 

If  an  artery  is  severed,  tie  a  small  cord  or  handkerchief  above  it. 

For  bilious  coUc,  soda  and  ginger  in  hot  water.     It  may  be  taken  freely. 

Tickling  in  the  throat  is  best  reheved  by  a  garghng  of  salt  and  water. 

Pains  in  the  side  are  most  promptly  relieved  by  the  application  of  mustard. 

For  cold  in  the  head,  nothing  is  better  than  powdered  borax,  sniffed  up  the 
nostrils. 

A  drink  of  hot,  strong  lemonade  before  going  to  bed  will  often  break  up  a 
cold  and  cure  a  sore  throat. 

Nervous  spasms  are  usually  relieved  by  a  Uttle  salt  taken  into  the  mouth  and 
allowed  to  dissolve. 

Whooping-cough  paroxysms  are  relieved  by  breathing  the  f innes  of  turpen- 
tine and  carbolic  acid. 

Broken  limbs  should  be  placed  in  natural  positions,  and  the  patient  kept  quiet 
imtil  the  surgeon  arrives. 

Hemorrhages  of  the  lungs  or  stomach  are  promptly  checked  by  small  doses 
of  salt.     The  patient  should  be  kept  as  quiet  as  possible. 

Sleeplessness  caused  by  too  much  blood  in  the  head  may  be  overcome  by 
applying  a  cloth  wet  with  cold  water  to  the  back  of  the  neck. 

Wind  colic  is  promptly  relieved  by  peppermint  essence,  taken  in  a  little  warm 
water.     For  small  children  it  may  be  sweetened.    Paregoric  is  also  good. 

For  stomach  cramps,  ginger  ale  or  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  the  tincture  of  ginger 
in  a  half  glass  of  water  in  which  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved. 

Sickness  of  the  stomach  is  most  promptly  relieved  by  drinking  a  teacupful  of 
hot  soda  and  water.    K  it  brings  the  offending  matter  up,  all  the  better. 

A  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard  in  a  cupful  of  warm  water  is  a  prompt  and 


448  HEALTH^SUGGESTIONS. 

reliable  emetic,  and  shoiild  be  resorted  to  in  cases  of  poisoning  or  cramps  in  the 
stomach  from  over-eating. 

Avoid  purgatives  or  strong  physic,  as  they  not  only  do  no  good,  but  are  poed- 
tively  hurtfuL    Pills  may  relieve  for  the  time,  but  they  seldom  cure. 

Powdered  rosin  is  the  best  thing  to  stop  bleeding  from  cuts.  After  the  pow- 
der is  sprinkled  on,  wrap  the  wound  with  soft  cotton  cloth.  As  soon  as  the 
wound*  begins  to  feel  feverish,  keep  the  cloth  wet  with  cold  water. 

Eggs  are  considered  one  of  the  best  remedies  for  dysentery.  Beaten  up  slight- 
ly, with  or  without  sugar,  and  swallowed,  they  tend  by  their  emollient  quali- 
ties to  lessen  the  inflammation  of  the  stomach  and  intestines,  and  by  forming 
a  transient  coating  on  those  organs,  enable  Nature  to  resume  her  healthful 
sway  over  the  diseased  body.  Two,  or  at  most,  three,  eggs  per  day,  would  be 
all  that  is  required  in  ordinary  cases;  and,  since  the  egg  is  not  merely  medicine, 
but  food  as  well,  the  Ughter  the  diet  otherwise,  and  the  quieter  the  patient  is 
kept,  the  more  certain  and  rapid  is  the  recovery. 

Hot  water  is  better  than  cold  for  bruises.  It  relieves  pain  quickly,  and  by 
preventing  congestion  often  keeps  off  the  ugly  black  and  blue  mark.  **  Children 
cry  for  it,"  when  they  experience  the  relief  it  affords  their  bumps  and  bruises. 

For  a  sprained  ankle,  the  white  of  eggs  and  powdered  alxun  made  into  a 
plaster  is  almost  a  specific. 

MEDICINAL  FOOD. 

Spinach  has  a  direct  effect  upon  complaints  of  the  kidneys;  the  common 
dandelion,  used  as  greens,  is  excellent  for  the  same  trouble;  asparagus  piuifies 
the  blood;  celery  acts  admirably  upon  the  nervous  system,  and  is  a  cure  for 
rheumatism  and  neuralgia;  tomatoes  act  upon  the  liver;  beets  andtinnips  are 
excellent  appetizers;  lettuce  and  cucumbers  are  cooling  in  their  effects  upon  the 
system;  beans  are  a  very  nutritious  and  strengthening  vegetable;  while  onions, 
garlic,  leeks,  chives  and  shalots,  all  of  which  are  similar,  possess  medical  vir- 
tues of  a  marked  character,  stimulating  the  circulatory  system,  and  the  con- 
sequent increase  of  the  saliva  and  the  gastric  juice  promoting  digestion.  Bed 
onions  are  an  excellent  dim^etic,  and  the  white  ones  are  recommended  raw  as 
a  remedy  for  insomnia.  They  are  tonic,  nutritious.  A  soup  made  from  onions 
is  regarded  by  the  French  as  an  excellent  restorative  in  debility  of  the  digestive 
organs.  We  might  go  through  the  entire  list  and  find  each  vegetable  possessing 
its  especial  mission  of  cure,  and  it  will  be  plain  to  every  housekeeper  that  a 
vegetable  diet  should  be  partly  adopted,  and  will  prove  of  great  advantage  to 
the  health  of  the  family. 


HOUSEKEEPER'S    TIME-TABLE. 


Apples,  sonr,  hard 

Apples,  sweet  and  mellow. 

Asparagus 

Beans  (pod) 

Beans  with  green  corn 

Beef 


Beefsteak 

Beefsteak 

Beef,  salted 

Bass,  fresh 

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old 

Bread,  corn 

Bread,  wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage 

Cabbage  and  vinegar. .. 

Cabbage  

Cauliflower 

Cake,  sponge 

Carrot,  orange 

Cheese,  old 

Chicken 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole. 

Custard  (one  quart) 

Duck,  tame 

Duck,  wild 

Dumpling,  apple 

Eggs,  hard 

Eggs,  soft 

Eggs. 
Eggs 


Fowls,  domestic,  roasted  or 

Gelatine 

Goose,  wild 

Lamb 

Meat  and  vegetables 

Milk 


Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pigs'  feet 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork,  raw  or 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Rice 


Salmon,  fresh , 

Sausage 

Sausage 

Soup,  vegetable 

Soup,  chicken 

Soup,  oyster  or  mutton , 

Spinach 

Tupioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoea 

Trout,  salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or 

Turkey,  boiled  or 

Turnips 

Veal 

Venison  steak 


Mode  of 
Preparation. 

Raw 
Raw 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Broiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Baked 

Baked 

Melted 

Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Baked 

Boiled 

Raw 

Fricasseed 

Boiled 

Baked 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Raw 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Hashed 

Raw 

Boiled 

Roast 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Stewed 

Boiled 

Soused 

Roast 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Baked 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fried 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Fresh 

Canned 

Fried 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Broiled 


Time  of 
Cooking. 


n.  Jl. 


2 

4 


15  to  80 
00 
45 
25 
15 
15 
85 
20 
00 
80 
45 
00 


1  00 

1-2  00 

45 

1  00 


1 
1 
1 


00 
15 
80 
80 
00 
00 
10 
8 
5 


• 

i"(ki 

i 

* 
• 

"20* 
20 

80 

* 

1 

' '  25 

20 

-2  00 

"  "  6* 
1  00 

i 

« 
« 

• 

' ' '  80 
25 

20 
80 
45 
45 
20 
8 
25 
20 

1  00 

2  00 
f  3  80 

1-2  00 
1  80 
1  00 
80 
80 
20 
45 
20 
20 


Time  of 
Digestion. 


8 
2 
2 
4 
2 


2  50 

1  50 

2  80 
2  80 
845 
8  00 
800 
4  00 
4  15 
8  00 
845 
4  00 
8  15 
8  80 

80 
30 
00 
80 
80 
2  80 
8  16 
8  80 
8  45 
2  00 

2  45 
4  00 
4  60 
8  CO 

3  80 
8  00 
8  80 
2  00 

00 
80 
30 
2  30 
2  80 
2  15 

2  00 
8  15 
8  00 
8  00 
8  15 
8  30 

3  00 
00 
15 
80 
15 

8  15 
8  80 
8  80 
80 
00 
46 
00 
8  80 

4  00 
8  00 
8  80 
2  80 

00 
80 
80 
80 
2  80 
8  80 
00 
85 


4 
2 
2 


1 
5 

4 
4 


2 
1 
1 

4 


2 
2 
2 
1 


4 
1 


•  Minutes  to  the  pound .  +  Mutton  soup. 

The  time  given  is  the  general  average;  the  time  will  vary  siightly  with  the  quality  of  th^  article. 

^(7 


i^rr^    r  '|||'  ^    ,^gX^e<a^,    ^  ^  ^    eXS^I 


5^p^-* ^^ijpP *    '<^fe^«x^^     ^ ^ *    W^^'^ 


USES  OF  AMMONIA. 

All  housekeepers  should  keep  a  bottle  of  liquid  ammonia,  as  it  is  the  most 
powerful  and  useful  agent  for  cleaning  silks,  stuffs  and  hats,  in  fact  deans 
everything  it  touches.  A  few  drops  of  ammonia  in  water  will  take  oflf  grease 
from  dishes,  pans,  etc.,  does  not  injure  the  hands  as  much  as  the  use  of  soda 
and  strong  chemical  soaps.  A  spoonful  in  a  quart  of  warm  water  for  cleaning 
paint,  makes  it  look  like  new,  and  so  with  everything  that  needs  cleaning. 

Spots  on  towels  and  hosiery  will  disappear  with  little  trouble  if  a  httle 
ammonia  is  put  into  enough  water  to  soak  the  articles,  and  they  are  left  in  it 
an  hour  or  two  before  washing;  and  if  a  cupful  is  put  into  the  water  in  which 
clothes  are  soaked  the  night  before  washing,  the  ease  with  which  the  articles 
can  be  washed,  and  their  great  whiteness  and  clearness  when  dried,  will  be  very 
gratifying.  Bemembering  the  small  sum  paid  for  three  quarts  of  anmionia 
of  common  strength,  one  can  easily  see  that  no  bleaching  preparation  can  be 
more  cheaply  obtained. 

No  articles  in  kitchen  use  are  so  likely  to  be  neglected  and  abused  as  the  dish- 
cloths and  dish-towels;  and  in  washing  these,  ammonia,  if  properly  used,  is  a 
greater  comfort  than  anywhere  else.  Put  a  teaspoonful  into  the  water  in  which 
these  clothes  are,  or  should  be  washed  every  day;  rub  soap  on  the  towels.  Put 
them  in  the  water;  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  or  so;  then  rub  them  out 
thoroughly,  rinse  faithfully,  and  dry  out-doors  in  clear  air  and  sun,  and  dish- 
cloths and  towels  need  never  look  gray  and  dingy — a  perpetual  discomfort  to 
all  housekeepers. 

A  dark  carpet  often  looks  dusty  soon  after  it  has  been  swept,  and  you 
know  it  does  not  need  sweeping  again;  so  wet  a  doth  or  a  sponge,  wring  it 
almost  dry,  and  wipe  off  the  dust.  A  few  drops  of  ammonia  in  the  water  will 
brighten  the  colors. 

29 


MISCELLANEO  US  RECIPES.  45 1 

For  cleaning  hair-brushes  it  is  excellent;  put  a  tablespoonful  into  the  water, 
having  it  only  tepid,  and  dip  up  and  down  until  clean;  then  dry  with  the  brushes 
down,  and  they  will  be  like  new  ones. 

When  employed  in  washing  anything  that  is  not  especially  soiled,  use  the 
waste  water  afterward  for  the  house  plants  that  are  taken  down  from  their  us- 
ual position  and  inmiersed  in  the  tub  of  water.  Ammonia  is  a  fertilizer,  and 
helps  to  keep  healthy  the  plants  it  nourishes.  In  every  way,  in  fact,  ammonia 
is  the  housekeeper's  friend. 

Ammonia  is  not  only  useful  for  cleaning,  but  as  a  household  medicine.  Half 
a  teaspoonful  taken  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water  is  far  better  for  f aintness  than  al- 
coholic stimulants.  In  the  Temperance  Hospital,  in  London,  it  is  used  with 
the  best  results.  It  was  used  freely  by  Lieutenant  Greely's  Artie  party  for  keep- 
ing up  circulation.  It  is  a  reUef  in  nervousness,  headache,  and  heart  disturb- 
ances. 

TO  DESTROY  INSECTS  AND  VERMIN. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  aliun  in  three  or  four  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  remain 
over  night,  till  all  the  alum  is  dissolved.  Then,  with  a  brush,  apply,  boiling  hot, 
to  every  joint  or  crevice  in  the  closet  or  shelves  where  croton  bugs,  ants,  cock- 
roaches, etc.,  intrude;  also  to  the  joints  and  crevices  of  bedsteads,  as  bed  bugs 
dislike  it  as  much  as  croton  bugs,  roaches,  or  ants.  Brush  all  the  cracks  in  the 
floor  and  mopboards.    Keep  it  boiling  hot  while  using. 

To  keep  woolens  and  fm^  from  moths,  be  sure  that  none  are  in  the  articles 
when  they  are  put  away;  then  take  a  piece  of  strong  brown  paper,  with  not  a 
hole  through  which  even  a  pin  can  enter.  Put  the  article  in  it,  with  several 
lumps  of  gum  camphor  between  the  folds.  Place  this  in  a  close  box  or  trunk. 
Cover  every  joint  with  paper.  A  piece  of  cotton  cloth,  if  thick  and  firm,  wiU 
answer.    Wherever  a  knitting-needle  can  pass,  the  parent  moth  can  enter. 

Place  pieces  of  camphor,  cedar-wood,  Russia  leather,  tobacco-leaves,  whole 
cloves,  or  anything  strongly  aromatic,  in  the  drawers  or  boxes  where  furs  and 
other  things  to  be  preserved  from  moths  are  kept,  and  they  will  never  be  harmed. 
Mice  never  get  into  drawers  or  trunks  where  gum  camphor  is  placed. 

Another  recipe: — Mix  half  a  pint  of  alcohol,  the  same  quantity  of  turpentine, 
and  two  ounces  of  camphor.  Keep  in  a  stone  bottle,  and  shake  well  before  us- 
ing. The  clothes  or  furs  are  to  be  wrapped  in  linen,  and  crumbled-up  pieces  of 
blotting-paper  dipped  in  the  liquid  to  be  placed  in  the  box  with  them,  so  that  it 
smells  strong.    This  requires  renewing  but  once  a  year. 

Another  authority  says  that  a  positive,  sure  recipe  is  this:    Mix  equal  quan- 


452  MISCELLANEO  US  RECIPES. 

tdtieB  of  pulverized  1x)raZy  camphor  gum  and  saltpetre  together,  m^lring  a  pow- 
der. Sprinkle  4t  dry  under  the  edges  of  carpets,  in  drawers,  trunks,  etc.,  etc. 
It  wiU  also  keep  out  all  kinds  of  insects,  if  plentifully  used.  If  the  house- 
keeper  wiU  begin  at  the  top  of  her  house  with  a  powder  bellows  and  a  large  quan- 
tity of  this  fresh  powder,  and  puflE  it  thoroughly  into  every  crack  and  crevice, 
whether  or  not  there  are  croton  bugs  in  them,  to  the  very  bottom  of  her  house, 
special  attention  being  paid  to  old  furniture,  closets,  and  wherever  croton  water 
is  introduced,  she  will  be  freed  from  these  torments.  The  operation  may  re- 
quire a  repetition,  but  the  end  is  success. 

MOTHS  IN  CARPETS. 

If  you  fear  that  they  are  at  work  at  the  edge  oi  the  carpet,  it  will  sometimes 
suffice  to  lay  a  wet  towel,  and  press  a  hot  flat-iron  over  it;  but  the  best  way  is  to 
take  the  carpet  up,  and  clean  it,  and  give  a  good  deal  of  attention  to  the  floor. 
Look  in  the  cracks,  and  if  you  discover  signs  of  moths,  wash  the  floor  with  ben- 
zine, and  scatter  red  pepper  on  it  before  putting  the  carpet  lining  down. 

Heavy  carpets  sometimes  do  not  require  taking  up  every  year,  unless  in  con- 
stant use.  Take  out  the  tacks  from  these,  fold  the  carpets  back,  wash  the  floor 
in  strong  suds  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  borax  dissolved  in  them.  Dash  with  in- 
sect powder,  or  lay  with  tobacco  leaves  along  the  edge,  and  retack.  Or  use  tur- 
pentine, the  enemy  of  buffalo  moths,  carpet  worms  and  other  insects  that  injure 
and  destroy  carpets.  Mix  the  tiupentine  with  pure  water  in  the  proportion  of 
three  tablespoonfuls  to  three  quai-ts  of  water,  and  then  after  the  carpet  has  been 
well  swept,  go  over  each  breadth  carefully  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  the  solution 
and  wrung  nearly  dry.  Change  the  water  as  often  as  it  becomes  dirty.  The 
carpet  will  be  nicely  cleaned  as  weU  as  disinfected.  AH  moths  can  be  kept  away 
and  the  eggs  destroyed  by  this  means.  Spots  may  be  renovated  by  the  use  of 
ox-gaU  or  ammonia  and  water. 

A  good  way  to  brighten  a  carpet  is  to  put  a  half  tumbler  of  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine in  a  basin  of  water,  and  dip  your  broom  in  it  and  sweep  over  the  carpet 
once  or  twice,  and  it  will  restore  the  color  and  brighten  it  up  until  you  would 
think  it  new.  Another  good  way  to  clean  old  carpets  is  to  rub  them  over  with 
meal;  just  dampen  it  a  very  Uttle  and  rub  the  carpet  with  it,  and  when  perfectly 
dry,  sweep  over  with  meal.  After  a  carpet  is  thoroughly  swept,  rub  it  with  a 
cloth  dipped  in  water  and  anmionia:  it  will  brighten  the  colors  and  make  it  look 

like  new. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  MACHINE  GREASE. 
Cold  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia,  and  soap,  wiU  take  out  machine 
grease  where  other  means  would  not  answer  on  account  of  colors  running,  etc 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  453 

TO  WASH  FLANNELS. 

The  first  thing  to  consider  in  washing  flannels  so  that  they  retain  their  size, 
is,  that  the  article  be  washed  and  rinsed  in  water  of  the  same  temperature^  that 
is,  about  as  warm  as  the  hands  can  bear,  and  not  allowed  to  cool  between.  The 
water  should  be  a  strong  suds.  Bub  through  two  soapy  waters;  wring  them 
out,  and  put  into  plenty  of  clear,  clean,  warm  water  to  rinse.  Then  into  another 
of  the  same  temperature,  blued  a  little.  Wring,  shake  them  well,  and  hang  up. 
Do  not  take  out  of  this  warm  water  and  hang  out  in  a  freezing  air,  as  that  cer- 
tainly tends  to  shrink  them.  It  is  better  to  dry  them  in  the  house,  imless  the 
sun  shines.  They  should  dry  quickly.  Colored  flannels  shotdd  never  be  washed 
in  the  same  water  after  white  clothes,  or  they  will  be  covered,  when  dry, 
with  lint;  better  be  washed  in  a  water  for  themselves.  In  washing  worsted, 
such  as  merino  dress  goods,  pursue  the  sai."e  course,  only  do  not  wring  them 
hard;  shake,  hang  them  up  and  let  drain.  While  a  little  damp,  bring  in  and 
press  smoothly  on  the  wrong  side  with  as  hot  an  iron  as  can  be  used  without 
scorching  the  goods. 

Flannels  that  have  become  yellow  from  being  badly  washed,  may  be  nicely 
whitened  by  soaking  them  two  or  three  hours  in  a  lather  made  of  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  dissolved  in  five  or  six  gallons  of  water. 

TO  STARCH,  FOLD  AND  IRON  SHIRTS. 

To  three  tablespoonfuls  of  dry,  fine  starch  allow  a  quart  of  water.  First  wet 
the  starch  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water  in  a  tin  pan,  put  into  it  a  Uttle  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  piece  of  enamel,  or  shirt  polish,  the  size  of  a  bean,  or  a  piece  of 
clean  tallow,  or  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  cranberry;  pour  over  this  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  rapidly,  placing  it  over  the  fire.  Cook  until  clear,  then 
remove  it  from  the  fire  and  set  the  pan  in  another  of  warm  water  to  keep  the 
starch  warm. 

Turn  the  shirt  wrong  side  out  and  dip  the  bosom  in  the  hot  starch  as  warm 
as  the  hands  can  bear  the  heat;  rub  the  starch  evenly  through  the  linen,  saturat- 
ing it  thoroughly;  wring  hard  to  make  dry  as  i)0ssible.  Starch  the  collar  and 
wristbands  the  same  way;  then  haug  them  out  to  dry.  Three  hours  before  iron- 
ing them,  wet  the  bosoms  and  cuflfs  in  cold  water,  wring  out,  shake  and  fold, 
roll  up  tightly,,  wrap  in  a  towel  and  let  remain  two  or  three  hours. 

The  back  of  the  shirt  should  be  ironed  first  by  doubUng  it  lengthwise  througi. 
the  centre,  the  wristbands  may  be  ironed  next,  and  both  sides  of  the  sleeves; 


454  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

then  the  collar  band;  now  place  a  boeom  board  under  the  boeom  and  with  a  fresh 
clean  napkin  dampened  a  little,  rub  the  bosom  from  the  top  towards  the  bottom, 
arranging  and  smoothing  each  plait  neatly;,  then  with  a  smooth,  moderately  hot 
flat-iron,  begin  ironing  from  the  top  downward,  pressing  hard  until  the  bosom 
becomes  smooth  dry  and  glossy.  Bemove  the  bosom  board  and  iron  the  front, 
fold  both  sides  of  the  shirt  towards  the  centre  of  the  back,  fold  tc^ther  below 
the  bosom  and  hang  on  the  bars  to  air. 

CLEANING  OIL-CLOTHS. 

A  dingy  oil-cloth  may  be  brightened  by  washing  it  with  dear  water  with  a 
httle  borax  dissolved  in  it;  wipe  it  with  a  flannel  cloth  that  you  have  dipped  into 
milk,  and  then  wring  as  dry  as  possible. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  LACE.    No.  i. 

A  teaspoonful  of  gum  arabic,  dissolved  in  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water; 
when  cool,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  ink;  dip  the  lace  and  spread  smoothly 
between  the  folds  of  a  newspaper  and  press  dry  with  book  or  the  like.  Lace  shawls 
can  be  dressed  over  in  this  way,  by  pinning  a  sheet  to  the  carpet,  and  stretch- 
ing the  shawl  upon  that;  or  black  lace  can  be  cleaned  the  same  as  ribbon  and 
silk.  Take  an  old  kid  glove  (black  preferable),  no  matter  how  old,  and  boil  it  in 
a  pint  of  water  for  a  short  time;  then  let  it  cool  until  the  leather  can  be  taken  in 
the  hand  without  burning;  use  the  glove  to  sponge  off  the  ribbon;  if  the  ribbon 
is  very  dirty,  dip  it  into  water  and  draw  through  the  fingers  a  few  times  before 
sponging.  After  cleaning,  lay  a  piece  of  paper  over  the  ribbon,  and  iron;  paper 
is  better  than  cloth.    The  ribbon  will  look  like  new. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  LACE.    No.  2. 

Black  laces  of  all  kinds  may  be  cleaned  by  alcohol.  Throw  them  boldly  into 
the  liquid;  chum  them  up  and  down  till  they  foam;  if  very  dusty,  use  the  second 
dose  of  alcohol;  squeeze  them  out,  ^^  spat "  them,  pull  out  the  edges,  lay  them 
between  brown  paper,  smooth  and  straight;  leave  under  a  heavy  weight  till  dry; 
do  not  iron. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  LACE.    No.  i. 

First,  the  soiled  laces  should  be  carefully  removed  from  the  garment  and 
folded  a  number  of  times,  keeping  the  edges  evenly  together,  then  basted  with 
a  coarse  thread  without  a  knot  in  the  end.  Now  put  them  in  a  basin  of  luke- 
warm suds.  After  soaking  a  half  hour,  rub  them  carefully  between  the  hands, 
renewing  the  suds  several  times;  then,  after  soaping  them  well,  place  them  in 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  455 

cold  water  and  let  them  come  to  a  scald.  Take  them  from  this  and  rinse  them 
thoroughly  in  luke-warm  water,  blued  a  very  little,  then  dip  them  into  a  very 
thin^  dear  starch,  allowing  a  teaspoonful  of  starch  to  a  pint  of  water,  so  thin 
that  it  will  be  scarcely  perceptible.  Now  roll  them  in  a  clean,  fresh  towel  without 
taking  out  the  bastings;  let  them  lie  for  an  hour  or  more;  iron  over  several  thick- 
nesses of  flannel,  taking  out  the  bastings  of  one  piece  at  a  time,  and  ironing  on 
the  wrong  side,  with  a  moderately  hot  iron;  the  laces  should  be  nearly  dry,  and 
the  edges  and  points  pulled  gently  with  the  fingers  into  shape,  before  ironing. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  THREAD  LACE.    No.  2. 

To  wash  white  lace,  cover  a  bottle  with  linen,  stitched  smoothly  to  fit  the 
shape.  Wind  the  lace  about  it,  basting  both  edges  to  the  linen.  Wash  on  the 
bottle,  soaping  and  rinsing  well,  then  boil  in  soft  water.  Dry  in  the  sun.  Clip 
the  basting  threads  and  do  not  iron.  If  carefully  done,  it  will  look  like  new 
lace. 

TO  CLEAN  SILKS  OR  RIBBONS. 

Half  a  pint  of  gin,  half  a  pound  of  honey,  half  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  one- 
eighth  of  a  pint  of  water. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  together;  then  lay  each  breadth  of  silk  upon  a 
clean  kitchen  table  or  dresser,  and  scrub  it  well  on  the  soiled  side  with  the  mix- 
ture. Have  ready  three  vessels  of  cold  water;  take  each  piece  of  silk  at  two 
comers,  and  dip  it  up  and  down  in  each  vessel,  but  do  not  wring  it;  and  take 
care  that  each  breadth  has  one  vessel  of  quite  clean  water  for  the  last  dip.  Hang 
it  up  dripping  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  dab  in  a  cloth,  and  iron  it  quickly  with 
a  very  hot  iron. 

Where  the  lace  or  silk  is  very  much  soiled,  it  is  best  to  pass  them  through  a 
warm  liquor  of  bullock's  gall  and  water;  rinse  in  cold  water;  then  take  a  small 
piece  of  glue,  pour  boiling  water  on  it,  and  pass  the  veil  through  it;  clap  it,  and 
frame  to  dry.  Instead  of  framing,  it  may  be  fastened  with  drawing-pins  closely 
fixed  upon  a  very  clean  paste,  or  drawing-board. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  DRESS  SILKS. 
One  of  the  things  ''not  generally  known,"  at  least  in  this  country,  is  the 
Parisian  method  of  cleaning  black  silk;  the  modtLS  operandi  is  very  simple,  and 
the  result  infinitely  superior  to  that  achieved  in  any  other  manner.  The  silk 
must  be  thoroughly  brushed  and  wiped  with  a  cloth,  then  laid  flat  on  a  board  or 
table>  and  well-sponged  with  hot  coffee,  thoroughly  freed  from  sediment  by  be- 
ing strained  through  muslin.    The  silk  is  sponged  on  the  side  intended  to  show; 


J56  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

t  is  allowed  to  become  partially  dry,  and  then  ironed  on  the  wrong  side.  The 
coffee  removes  every  particle  of  grease,  and  restores  the  brilliancy  of  silk,  with- 
out imparting  to  it  either  the  shiny  appearance  or  crackly  and  papery  stiflbess 
obtained  by  beer,  or,  indeed,  any  other  liquid.  The  silk  really  appears  tiiickened 
by  the  process,  and  this  good  effect  is  permanent.  Our  readers  who  win  experi- 
mentalize on  an  apron  or  cravat,  will  never  again  try  any  other  method. 

TO  WASH  FEATHERS. 

Wash  in  warm  soap-suds  and  rinse  in  water  a  very  Uttle  blued;  if  the  feather 
is  white,  then  let  the  wind  dry  it.  When  the  curl  has  come  out  by  washing  the 
feather  or  getting  it  damp,  place  a  hot  flat-iron  so  that  you  can  hold  the  feather 
just  above  it  while  curling.  Take  a  bone  or  silver  knife,  and  draw  the  fibres  of  the 
feather  between  the  thumb  and  the  dull  edge  of  the  knife,  taking  not  more  than 
three  fibres  at  a  time,  beginning  at  the  point  of  the  feather  and  curling  one-Iudf 
the  other  way.  The  hot  iron  makes  the  curl  more  durable.  After  a  little  prac- 
tice one  can  make  them  look  as  well  as  new  feathers.  Or  they  can  be  curled  by 
holding  them  over  the  stove  or  range,  not  near  enough  to  bum;  withdraw,  and 
shake  out;  then  hold  them  over  again,  until  they  curl.  When  swansdown  be- 
comes soiled,  it  can  be  washed  and  look  as  well  as  new.  Tack  strips  on  a  piece 
of  muslin  and  wash  in  warm  water  with  white  soap,  then  rinse  aud  hang  in  the 
wind  to  dry.  Rip  from  the  musUn,  and  rub  carefully  between  the  fingers  to 
soften  the  leather. 

INCOMBUSTIBLE  DRESSES. 

By  putting  an  ounce  of  alum  or  sal  ammoniac  in  the  last  water  in  which 
muslins  or  cottons  are  rinsed,  or  a  similar  quantity  in  the  starch  in  which  they 
are  stiffened,  they  will  be  rendered  almost  uninflammable;  or,  at  least,  will  with 
difliculty  take  the  flre,  and  if  they  do,  will  bum  without  flame.  It  is  astonish- 
ing that  this  simple  precaution  is  so  rarely  adopted.  Bemember  this  and  save 
the  lives  of  your  children. 

HOW  TO  FRESHEN  UP  FURS. 

Furs  when  taken  out  in  the  fall  are  often  f oimd  to  have  a  mussed,  crushed  • 
out  appearance.  They  can  be  made  to  look  like  new,  by  following  these  simple 
directions:  Wet  the  fur  with  a  hair-brush,  brushing  up  the  verong  way  of  the 
fur.  LeaTe  it  to  dry  in  the  air  for  about  half  an  hour,  and  then  give  it  a  good 
beating  on  the  right  side  with  a  rattan.  After  beating  it,  comb  it  with  a  coarse 
comb,  combing  up  the  right  way  of  the  fur. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  457 

NOVEL  DRESS  MENDING. 
A  novel  way  of  mending  a  woolen  or  silk  dress  in  which  a  round  hole  has 
been  torn,  and  where  only  a  patch  could  remedy  matters,  is  the  following:  The 
frayed  jjortions  around  the  tear  should  be  carefully  smoothed,  and  a  piece  of  the 
material,  moistened  with  very  thin  mucilage,  placed  under  the  hole.  A  heavy 
weight  should  be  put  upon  it  until  it  is  dry,  when  it  is  only  possible  to  discover 
the  mended  place  by  careful  observation. 

TO  RENEW  OLD  CRAPE. 
Place  a  little  water  in  a  teakettle,  and  let  it  boil  until  there  is  plenty  of  steam 
from  the  spout;  then,  holding  the  crape  in  both  hands,  pass  it  to  and  fro  several 
times  through  the  steam,  and  it  will  be  clean  and  look  nearly  equal  to  new. 

TO  RAISE  THE  PILE  ON  VELVET. 

To  luise  the  pile  on  velvet,  put  on  a  table  two  pieces  of  wood;  place  between 
them,  bottom  side  up,  three  very  hot  flat-irons,  and  over  them  lay  a  wet  cloth; 
hold  the  velvet  over  the  cloth,  with  the  wrong  side  down;  when  thoroughly 
steamed,  brush  the  pile  with  a  Ught  wisp,  and  the  velvet  will  look  as  good  as 
new. 

TO  CLEAN  KID  GLOVES. 

Make  a  thick  mucilage  by  boihng  a  handful  of  flax-seed;  add  a  little  dissolved 
toilet  soap;  then,  when  the  mixture  cools,  put  the  glove  on  the  hands  and  rub 
them  with  a  piece  of  white  flannel  wet  with  the  mixture.  Do  not  wet  the 
gloves  through.  Or  take  a  fine,  clean,  soft  cloth,  dip  it  into  a  little  sweet  nulk, 
then  rub  it  on  a  cake  of  soap,  and  rub  the  gloves  with  it;  they  will  look  like 
new. 

Another  good  way  to  clean  any  color  of  kid  gloves  is  to  pour  a  little  benzine 
into  a  basin  and  wash  the  gloves  in  it,  rubbing  and  squeezing  them  until  clean. 
If  much  soiled,  they  must  be  washed  through  clean  benzine,  and  rinsed  in  a 
fresh  supply.     Hang  up  in  the  air  to  dry. 

STARCH  POLISH. 
Take  one  ounce  of  spermaceti  and  one  ounce  of  white  wax;  melt  and  run  it 
into  a  thin  cake  on  a  plate.    A  piece  the  size  of  a  quarter  dollar  added  to  a  quart 
of  prepared  starch  gives  a  beautiful  lustre  to  the  clothes  and  prevents  the  iron 
from  sticking. 

FOR  CLEANING  JEWELRY. 

For  cleaning  jewelry  there  is  nothing  better  than  ammonia  and  water.  If 
very  dull  or  dirty,  rub  -a  little  soap  on  a  soft  brush  and  brush  them  in  this  wash, 


458  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

rinse  in  cold  water,  dry  first  in  an  old  handkerchief,  and  then  rub  with  buck  or 
chamois  skin.  Their  freshness  and  brilliancy  when  thus  cleaned  cannot  be  sur- 
passed by  any  compound  used  by  jewelers. 

TO  CLEAN  SILVER  PLATE. 

Wash  well  in  strong,  warm  soap-suds,  rinse  and  wipe  dry  with  a  dry,  soft 
doth;  then  mix  as  much  hartshorn  powder  as  will  be  requiired  into  a  thick  paste, 
with  cold  water;  spread  this  over  the  silver,  with  a  soft  doth,  and  leave  it  for  a 
little  time  to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry,  brush  it  oflE  with  a  dean  soft  doth,  or 
brush  and  polish  it  with  a  piece  of  chamois  skin.  Hartshorn  is  one  of  the  best 
possible  ingredients  for  plate  powder  for  daily  use.  It  leaves  on  the  silver  a 
deep,  dark  polish,  and  at  the  same  time  does  not  injure  it.  Whiting,  dampened 
with  liquid  anunonia,  is  excellent  also. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  FROM  MARBLE. 

Mix  together  one-half  pound  of  soda,  one-half  pound  of  soft  soap,  and  one 
pound  of  whiting.  Boil  them  until  they  become  as  thick  as  paste,  and  let  it 
cool.  Before  it  is  quite  cold,  spread  it  over  the  surface  of  the  marble  and  leave 
it  at  least  a  whole  day.  Use  a  soft  water  to  wash  it  off,  and  rub  it  well  with 
soft  cloths.    For  a  black  marble,  nothing  is  better  than  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Another  paste  answers  the  same  purpose:  Take  two  parts  of  soda,  one  of 
pumice-stone,  and  one  of  fuiely-powdered  chalk.  Sift  these  through  a  fiue 
sieve,  and  tyiit  them  into  a  paste  with  water.  Bub  this  well  all  over  the  mar- 
ble, and  the  stains  will  be  removed;  then  wash  it  with  soap  and  water,  and  a 
beautiful  bright  polish  will  be  produced. 

TO  WHITEN  WALLS. 

To  whiten  walls,  scrape  off  all  the  old  whitewash,  and  wash  the  walls  with  a 
solution  of  two  ounces  of  white  vitriol  to  four  gallons  of  water.  Soak  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  white  glue  in  water  for  twelve  hours;  strain  and  place  in  a  tin  pail 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  When  melted,  stir  in  the  glue  eight  pounds  of 
whiting  and  water  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  common  whitewash.  Apply 
evenly  with  a  good  brush.  If  the  walls  are  very  yellow,  blue  the  water  slightly 
by  squeezing  in  it  a  flannel  blue-bag. 

Before  kalsomining  a  wall,  all  cracks  should  be  plastered  over.  Use  plaster  of 
Paris.  Kalsomine  may  be  colored  easily  by  mixing  with  it  yellow  ochre,  Span- 
ish brown,  indigo;  squeeze  through  a  bag  into  the  water,  etc. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  459 

PAPER-HANGERS'  PASTE. 

To  make  paper-hangers'  paste,  beat  up  four  pounds  of  good,  white,  wheat 
flour  (well  sifted  previously)  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Beat 
it  well  in  order  to  take  out  all  limips,  and  then  add  enough  cold  water  to  make 
the  mixture  of  the  consistency  of  pudding  batter.  To  this  add  about  two  oimces 
of  well-pounded  alum.  Pour  gently  and  quickly  over  the  batter  boiling  water, 
stirring  rapidly  at  the  same  time,  and  when  it  is  seen  to  lose  the  white  color  of 
the  flour,  it  is  cooked  and  ready.  Do  not  use  it,  however,  while  hot,  but  allow 
it  to  cool.  Pour  about  a  pint  of  cold  water  over  the  top  to  prevent  a  skin  from 
forming.  Before  using,  the  paste  should  be  thinned  by  the  addition  of  cold 
water. 

TO  WASH  COLORED  GARMENTS. 

Delicately  colored  socks  and  stockings  are  apt  to  fade  in  washing.  If  they 
are  soaked  for  a  night  in  a  pail  of  tepid  water  containing  a  half  pint  of  turpen- 
tine, then  wrung  out  and  dried,  the  colors  will  **  set,"  and  they  can  afterwards 
be  wsished  without  fading. 

For  calicoes  that  fade,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pailful  of 
water  and  soak  the  garment  fifteen  minutes  before  washing. 

THE  MARKING  SYSTEM. 
Mark  all  your  own  personal  wardrobe  which  has  to  be  washed.  If  this  wei'e 
invariably  done,  a  great  deal  of  property  would  be  saved  and  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  would  be  spared.  For  the  sake  of  saving  trouble  to  others,  if  for  no 
other  reason,  aU  of  one^s  handkerchiefs,  collars  and  underclothing  should  be 
plainly  and  permanently  marked.  A  bottle  of  indelible  ink  is  cheap,  a  clean  pen 
still  cheaper,  and  a  bright,  sunny  day  or  a  hot  flat-iron  will  complete  the  busi- 
ness. Always  keep  on  hand  a  stick  of  linen  tape,  written  over  its  whole  length 
with  your  name,  or  the  names  of  your  family,  ready  to  be  cut  off  and  sewed  on 
to  stockings  and  such  other  articles  as  do  not  afford  a  good  surface  on  which  to 
mark. 

Then  there  are  the  paper  patterns,  of  which  every  mother  has  a  store.  On 
the  outside  of  each,  as  it  is  tied  up,  the  name  of  the  pattern  should  be  plainly 
written.  There  are  the  rolls  of  pieces,  which  may  contain  a  good  deal  not  ap- 
parent from  the  outside.  All  these  hidden  mysteries  should  be  indicated.  The 
winter  things,  which  are  wrapped  up  and  put  away  for  summer,  and  the  sum- 
mer things,  which  are  wrapped  up  and  put  away  for  the  winter,  should  all  be  in 
labeled  packages,  and  every  packing  trunk  should  have  on  its  hd  a  complete  list 
of  its  contents.  — CongregationalisU 


460  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  AND  SPOTS. 

Children's  clothes,  table  linens,  towels,  etc.,  should  be  thoroughly  examined 
before  wetting,  as  soap-suds,  washing-fluids,  etc.,  will  fix  almost  any  stain  past 
removal.  Many  stains  will  pass  away  by  being  simply  washed  in  pure,  soft 
water;  or  alcohol  will  remove,  before  the  article  has  been  in  soapsuds,  many 
stains;  iron-mold,  mildew,  or  almoet  any  similar  spot,  can  be  taken  out  by 
flipping  in  diluted  citric  add;  then  cover  with  salt  and  lay  in  the  bright  sun  till 
the  stain  disappears.  If  of  long  standing,  it  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  the  wet- 
ting and  the  sunlight.  Be  careful  to  rinse  in  several  waters  as  soon  as  the  stain 
is  no  longer  visible.  Ink,  fruit,  wine,  and  mildew  stains  must  first  be  washed 
in  clear,  cold  water,  removing  as  much  of  the  spots  as  can  be;  then  mix  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  oxalic  acid,  and  a  half  pint  of  rain  water.  Dip  the  stain  in  this,  and 
wipe  off  in  clear  water.  Wash  at  once,  if  a  fabric  that  wiU  bear  washing.  A 
tablespoonful  of  white  currant  juice,  if  any  can  be  had,  is  even  better  than 
lemon.  This  preparation  may  be  used  on  the  most  delicate  articles  without  in- 
jury. Shake  it  up  before  using  it.  Mark  it  "  poison,"  and  put  it  where  it  will 
not  be  meddled  with. 

OIL  STAINS  IN  SILK  AND  OTHER  FABRICS. 

Benzine  is  most  effectual,  not  only  for  silk,  but  for  any  other  material  what- 
ever. It  can  be  procured  from  any  druggist.  By  simply  covering  both  sides, 
of  greased  silk  with  magnesia,  and  allowing  it  to  remain  for  a  few  hours,  the 
oil  is  absorbed  by  the  powder.  Should  the  first  application  be  insufficient,  it  may 
be  repeated,  and  even  rubbed  in  with  the  hand.  Should  the  silk  be  Tussah  or 
Indian  silk,  it  will  wash. 

To  remove  an  acid  stain  on  violet  silk:  Brush  the  discoloration  with  tincture 
of  iodine,  then  satiuB^te  the  spot  well  with  a  solution  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda, 
and  dry  gradually.    This  restores  theoriginal  color  perfectly. 

Muriatic  add  is  ^niccessf ully  used  for  removing  ink  stains  and  iron  mold  on 
a  nmnber  of  colors  which  it  does  not  attack. 

Sulphurous  acid  is  only  employed  for  whitening  undyed  goods,  straw  hats, 
etc.,  and  for  removing  the  stains  of  certain  fruits  on  silks  and  woolens.  Sul- 
phurous gas  is  also  used  for  this  purpose,  but  the  liquid  gas  is  safer. 

Oxalic  acid  is  used  for  removing  ink  and  rust  stains,  and  remnants  of  mud 
stains,  which  do  not  yield  to  other  deterrents.  It  may  also  be  used  for  destroy- 
ing the  stains  of  fruits  and  astringent  juices,  and  old  stains  of  urine.  However, 
its  use  is  limited  to  white  goods,  as  it  attacks  fugitive  colors,  and  even  light 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECITES.  46 1 

shades  of  those  reputed  to  be  fast.  The  best  method  of  applying  it  is  to  dissolve 
it  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  to  let  it  remain  a  moment  upon  the  spot,  and  then 
rub  it  with  the  fingei*8.    Wash  out  in  clear,  warm  water,  immediately. 

Citric  add  serves  to  revive  and  brighten  certain  colors,  especially  greens  and 
yellows.  It  restores  scarlets  which  have  been  turned  to  a  crimson  by  the  action 
of  alkalies.    Acetic  add  or  tartaric  add  may  be  used  instead. 

Where  it  is  feared  that  soap  may  change  the  color  of  an  article,  as,  for  in- 
stance, scarlet  hosiery  or  lilac  print,  if  the  garment  be  not  badly  soiled,  it  may 
be  deansed  by  washing  without  soap  in  water  in  which  pared  potatoes  have 
been  boiled.  This  method  will  also  prevent  color  from  running  in  washing 
prints. 

To  prevent  blue  from  running  into  a  white  ground,  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of 
copperas  in  a  pailful  of  soft  water,  add  a  piece  of  lime  the  size  of  an  acorn,  and 
soak  the  garments  in  this  water  two  hoiu^  before  washing.  To  keep  colors  from 
running  in  washing  black  prints,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  in  the  first 
water. 

Salt  or  beef's  gall  in  the  water  helps  to  set  black.  A  tablespoonful  of  spuitfr 
of  turpentine  to  a  gallon  of  water  sets  most  blues,  and  alum  is  very  efi&cacious  in. 
setting  green.  Black  or  very  dark  calicoes  should  be  stiffened  with  gum  arable 
— five  cents  worth  is  enough  for  a  dress.  If  however,  starch  is  used,  the  gar- 
ment should  be  turned  wrong  side  out. 

A  simple  way  to  remove  grass  stains  is  to  spread  butter  on  them,  and  lay  thp 
article  in  hot  simshine,  or  wash  in  alcohol.  Fruit  stains  upon  cloth  or  the  hand& 
may  be  removed  by  rubbing  with  the  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes.  If  applied  imme- 
diately, powdered  starch  will  also  take  fruit  stains  out  of  table  linen.  Left  on 
the  spot  for  a  few  hours,  it  absorbs  every  trace  of  the  stain. 

For  mildew  stains  or  iron-rust,  mix  together  soft  soap,  laundry  starch,  half 
as  much  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Apply  to  the  spots,  and  spread  the  gar- 
ment on  the  grass.  Or  wet  the  linen,  rub  into  it  white  soap,  then  finely  pow- 
dered chalk;  lay  upon  the  grass  and  keep  damp.  Old  mildew  stains  may  be 
removed  by  rubbing  yellow  soap  on  both  sides,  and  afterwards  laying  on,  very 

thick,  starch  which  has  been  dampened.    Bub  in  well,  and  expose  to  light  and 
air. 

There  are  several  effectual  methods  of  removing  grease  from  cloths.  First, 
wet  with  a  Unen  doth  dipped  in  chloroform.  Second,  mix  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  alcohol  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt;  shake  together  imtil  the  salt  is  dis- 
solved, and  apply  with  a  sponge.  Third,  wet  with  weak  ammonia  water;  then 
lay  a  thin  white  blotting  or  tissue  paper  over  it,  and  iron  lightly  with  an  iron 


462  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

not  too  hot.    Fourth,  apply  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  alcohol^  gin,  and 
ammonia. 

Candle  grease  yields  to  a  warm  iron.  Place  a  piece  of  blotting  or  other  ab- 
sorbing x)aper  under  the  absorbing  fabric;  put  a  piece  of  the  paper  also  on  the 
spot,  apply  the  warm  iron  to  the  paper,  and  as  soon  as  a  spot  of  grease  appears, 
move  the  paper  and  press  again  until  the  spot  disappears.  Lard  will  remove 
wagon  grease.  Bub  the  spot  with  the  lard  as  if  washing  it,  and  when  it  is  weD. 
out,  wash  in  the  ordinary  way  vdth  soap  and  water  until  thoroughly  cleansed. 

To  make  linen  beautifully  white,  prepare  the  water  for  washing  by  putting 
into  every  ten  gallonsa  large  handful  of  powdered  borax;  or  boil  with  the 
clothes  one  teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Fruit  stains  may  be  taken  out  by  boiling  water.  Place  the  material  over  a 
basin  or  other  vessel,  and  pour  the  boiling  water  from  the  kettle  over  the  stains. 

Pure  water,  cold  or  hot,  mixed  with  acids,  serves  for  rinsing  goods  in  order 
to  remove  foreign  and  neutral  bodies  which  cover  the  color.  Steam  softens 
fatty  matters,  and  thus  facilitates  their  removal  by  reagents. 

Sulphuric  add  may  be  used  in  certain  cases,  particularly  for  brightening  and 
raising  greens,  reds,  yellows,  etc.,  but  it  must  be  diluted  with  at  least  one  hun- 
dred times  its  weight  of  water  and  more  in  cases  of  dehcate  shades. 

CEMENT  FOR  CHINA  AND  GLASS. 

To  half  a  pint  of  milk  put  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar  in  order  to  curdle  it; 
then  separate  the  curd  from  the  whey,  and  mix  the  whey  with  the  whites  of 
four  or  five  eggs,  beating  the  whole  well  together.  When  it  is  well-mixed,  add 
a  little  quick-lime,  through  a  sieve,  until  it  has  acquired  the  consistence  of  a 
thick  paste.  With  this  cement  broken  vessels  and  cracks  of  all  kinds  may  be 
mended.    It  dries  quickly,  and  resists  the  action  of  fire  and  water. 

Another:  Into  a  thick  solution  of  gum  arabic,  stir  plaster  of  Paris  until  the 
mixture  assumes  the  consistency  of  cream,  apply  with  a  brush  to  the  broken 
edges  of  china  and  join  together.  In  three  days  the  article  cannot  be  broken  in 
the  same  place.     The  whiteness  of  the  cement  adds  to  its  value. 

CLEANSING  SINKS. 

To  purify  greasy  sinks  and  pipes,  pour  down  a  pailful  of  boiling  water  in 
which  three  or  four  pounds  of  washing  soda  have  been  dissolved.  A  disinfect- 
ant is  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using  copperas.  Copperas  is  a  poison  and 
should  not  be  left  about. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  463 

Leaks  in  waste  pipes:— ^\A»  yourself  into  a  room  from  which  the  pipe  starts. 
Pat  two  or  three  ounces  of  oU  of  peppermint  into  a  p^  of  boiling  hot  water  and 
pour  down  the  pipe.  Another  person  who  has  not  yet  inhaled  the  strong  odor 
should  follow  the  course  of  the  pipe  through  the  house.  The  peppermint  will  be 
pretty  sure  to  discover  a  break  that  even  an  expert  plumber  might  overlook. 

— Ths  Exhminer. 

MANAGEMENT  OF  STOVES. 

If  the  fire  in  a  stove  has  plenty  of  fresh  coals  on  top  not  yet  burned  through 

it  will  need  only  a  little  shaking  to  start  it  up;  but  if  the  fire  looks  dying  and  the 

coals  look  white,  don^t  shake  it.    When  it  has  drawn  till  it  is  red  again,  if  there 

is  much  ash  and  little  fire,  put  coals  on  very  carefully.    A  mere  handful  of  fire 

can  be  coaxed  back  to  life  by  adding  another  handful  or  so  of  new  coals  on  the 

red  spot,  and  giving  plenty  of  draught,  but  don^t  shake  a  dying  fire,  or  you  lose 

it.    This  management  is  often  necessary  after  a  warm  spell,  when  the  stove  has 

been  kept  dormant  for  days,  though  I  hope  you  will  not  be  so  unfortunate  as  to 

have  a  fire  to  coax  up  on  a  cold  winter  morning.     They  should  be  arranged  over 

night,  so  that  all  that  is  required  is  to  open  the  draughts  iii  order  to  have  a 

cheery  glow  in  a  few  minutes. 

— Good  Housekeeping. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  FROM  CARPETS. 

When  freshly  spilled,  ink  can  be  removed  from  carpets  by  wetting  in  milk. 
Take  cotton  batting  and  soak  up  all  of  the  ink  that  it  will  receive,  being  careful 
not  to  let  it  spread.  Then  take  fresh  cotton,  wet  in  milk,  and  sop  it  up  care- 
fully. Bepeat  this  operation,  changing  cotton  and  milk  each  time.  After  most 
of  the  ink  has  been  taken  up  in  this  way,  with  fresh  cotton  and  clean,  rub  the 
spot.  Continue  till  all  disappears;  then  wash  the  spot  in  clean  warm  water  and 
a  little  soap;  rinse  in  dear  water  and  rub  till  nearly  dry.  If  the  ink  is  dried  in, 
we  know  of  no  way  that  will  not  take  the  color  from  the  carpet  as  well  as  the 
ink,  unless  the  ink  is  on  a  white  spot.  In  that  case,  salts  of  lemon,  or  soft  soap, 
starch,  and  lemon  juice,  will  remove  the  ink  as  easily  as  if  on  cotton. 

TO  TAKE  RUST  OUT  OF  STEEL. 

If  possible,  place  the  article  in  a  bowl  containing  kerosene  oil,  or  wrap  the 
steel  up  in  a  soft  cloth  well-saturated  with  kerosene;  let  it  remain  twenty-foiu: 
hovms  or  longer;  then  scour  the  rusty  spots  with  brick  dust;  if  badly  rusted,  use 
salt  wet  with  hot  vinegar;  after  scouring  rinse  every  particle  of  brick  dust  or 
salt  off  with  boiling  hot  water;  dry  thoroughly  with  flannel  cloths,  and  place 


454     •  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

then  the  collar  band;  now  place  a  boeom  board  under  the  bosom  and  with  a  freeh 
clean  napkin  dampened  a  little,  rub  the  bosom  from  the  top  towards  the  bottom^ 
arranging  and  smoothing  each  plait  neatly;,  then  with  a  smooth,  moderately  hot 
flat-iron,  begin  ironing  from  the  top  downward,  pressing  hard  until  the  bosom 
becomes  smooth  dry  and  glossy.  Bemove  the  bosom  board  and  iron  the  front, 
fold  both  sides  of  the  shirt  towards  the  centre  of  the  back,  fold  together  below 
the  bosom  and  hang  on  the  bars  to  air. 

CLEANING  OIL-CLOTHS. 

A  dingy  oil-doth  may  be  brightened  by  washing  it  with  dear  water  with  a 
little  borax  dissolved  in  it;  wipe  it  with  a  flannd  cloth  that  you  have  dipped  into 
milk,  and  then  wring  as  dry  as  possible. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  LACE.    No.  i. 

A  teaspoonful  of  gum  arabic,  dissolved  in  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water; 
when  cool,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  ink;  dip  the  lace  and  spread  smoothly 
between  the  folds  of  a  newspaper  and  press  dry  with  book  or  the  like.  Lace  shawls 
can  be  dressed  over  in  this  way,  by  pinning  a  sheet  to  the  carpet,  and  stretch- 
ing the  shawl  upon  that;  or  black  lace  can  be  cleaned  the  same  as  ribbon  and 
silk.  Take  an  old  kid  glove  (black  preferable),  no  matter  how  old,  and  boil  it  in 
a  pint  of  water  for  a  short  time;  then  let  it  cool  until  the  leather  can  be  taken  in 
the  hand  without  burning;  \ise  the  glove  to  sponge  off  the  ribbon;  if  the  ribbon 
is  very  dirty,  dip  it  into  water  and  draw  through  the  fingers  a  few  times  before 
sponging.  After  cleaning,  lay  a  piece  of  paper  over  the  ribbon,  and  iron;  paper 
is  better  than  doth.    The  ribbon  will  look  like  new. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  LACE.    No.  2. 

Black  laces  of  all  kinds  may  be  cleaned  by  alcohol.  Throw  them  boldly  into 
the  Uquid;  chum  them  up  and  down  till  they  foam;  if  very  dusty,  use  the  second 
dose  of  alcohol;  squeeze  them  out,  '^  spat "  them,  pull  out  the  edges,  lay  them 
between  brown  paper,  smooth  and  straight;  leave  under  a  heavy  weight  till  dry; 
do  not  iron. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  LACE.    No.  i. 

First,  the  soiled  laces  should  be  carefully  removed  from  the  garment  and 
folded  a  number  of  times,  keeping  the  edges  evenly  together,  then  basted  with 
a  coarse  thread  without  a  knot  in  the  end.  Now  put  them  in  a  basin  of  luke- 
warm suds.  After  soaking  a  half  hour,  rub  them  carefully  between  the  hands, 
renewing  the  suds  several  times;  then,  after  soaping  them  well,  place  them  in 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  455 

i  cold  water  and  let  them  come  to  a  scald.    Take  them  from  this  and  rinse  them 

I  thoroughly  in  luke-warm  water,  blued  a  very  little,  then  dip  them  into  a  very 

I  thin^  dear  starch,  allowing  a  teaspoonful  of  starch  to  a  pint  of  water,  so  thin 

I  that  it  will  be  scarcely  perceptible.   Now  roll  them  in  a  clean,  fresh  towel  without 

i  taking  out  the  bastings;  let  them  he  for  an  hour  or  more;  iron  over  several  thick- 

r  nesses  of  flannel,  taking  out  the  bastings  of  one  piece  at  a  time,  and  ironing  on 

the  wrong  side,  with  a  moderately  hot  iron;  the  laces  should  be  nearly  dry,  and 
the  edges  and  points  puUed  gently  with  the  fingers  into  shape,  before  ironing. 

TO  WASH  WHITE  THREAD  LACE.    No.  2. 

To  wash  white  lace,  cover  a  bottle  with  linen,  stitched  smoothly  to  fit  the 
shape.  Wind  the  lace  about  it,  basting  both  edges  to  the  linen.  Wash  on  the 
bottle,  soaping  and  rinsing  well,  then  boil  in  soft  water.  Dry  in  the  sim.  Chp 
the  basting  threads  and  do  not  iron.  If  carefully  done,  it  wiU  look  like  new 
lace. 

TO  CLEAN  SILKS  OR  RIBBONS. 

Half  a  pint  of  gin,  half  a  pound  of  honey,  half  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  one- 
eighth  of  a  pint  of  water. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  together;  then  lay  each  breadth  of  silk  upon  a 
clean  kitchen  table  or  dreaser,  and  scrub  it  well  on  the  soiled  side  with  the  mix- 
tinre.  Have  ready  three  vessels  of  cold  water;  take  each  piece  of  silk  at  two 
comers,  and  dip  it  up  and  down  in  each  vessel,  but  do  not  wring  it;  and  take 
care  that  each  breadth  has  one  vessel  of  quite  clean  water  for  the  last  dip.  Hang 
it  up  dripping  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  dab  in  a  cloth,  and  iron  it  quickly  with 
a  very  hot  iron. 

Where  the  lace  or  silk  is  very  much  soiled,  it  is  best  to  pass  them  through  a 
warm  Uquor  of  bullock's  gall  and  water;  rinse  in  cold  water;  then  take  a  small 
piece  of  glue,  pour  boiling  water  on  it,  and  pass  the  veil  through  it;  clap  it,  and 
frame  to  dry.  Instead  of  framing,  it  may  be  fastened  with  drawing-pins  closely 
fixed  upon  a  very  clean  paste,  or  drawing-board. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  DRESS  SILKS. 

One  of  the  things  "not  generally  known,"  at  least  in  this  country,  is  the 
Parisian  method  of  cleaning  black  silk;  the  modus  operandi  is  very  simple,  and 
the  result  infinitely  superior  to  that  achieved  in  any  other  manner.  The  silk 
must  be  thoroughly  brushed  and  wiped  with  a  cloth,  then  laid  flat  on  a  board  or 
table>  and  well-sponged  with  hot  coffee,  thoroughly  freed  from  sediment  by  be- 
ing strained  through  muslin.    The  silk  is  sponged  on  the  side  intended  to  show; 


466  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

T^th  ammonia.  Or  use  solution  of  ten  grains  of  cyanide  of  potassium  and  five 
grains  of  iodine  to  one  oimce  of  water,  or  a  solution  of  eight  parts  each  bichloride 
of  mercury  and  chloride  of  ammonium  in  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  parts  of 
water. 

A  CEMENT  FOR  ACIDS. 

A  cement  which  is  proof  against  boihng  adds  may  be  made  by  a  composition 
of  India  rubber,  tallow,  lime  and  red  lead.  The  India  rubber  must  first  be 
melted  by  a  gentle  heat,  and  then  six  to  eight  per  cent,  by  weight  of  tallow  is 
added  to  the  mixture  while  it  is  kept  weU-stirred;  next  day  slaked  lime  is  ap- 
plied, until  the  fluid  mass  assumes  a  consistency  similar  to  that  of  soft  paste; 
lastly,  twenty  per  cent,  of  red  lead  is  added,  in  order  to  make  it  harden  and  dry. 

TO  KEEP  CIDER. 

Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  gallon,  the  whites  of  six  eggs, 
well  beaten,  a  handful  of  conlmon  salt.  Leave  it  open  until  fermentation  ceases, 
then  bung  up.  This  process  a  dealer  in  cider  has  used  for  years,  and  always 
successfully. 

Another  recipe: — To  keep  cider  sweet  allow  it  to  work  until  it  has  reached 
the  state  most  desirable  to  the  taste,  and  then  add  one  and  a  half  tumblers  of 
grated  horse-radish  to  each  barrel,  and  shake  up  well.  This  arrests  further 
fermentation.  After  remaining  a  few  weeks,  rack  off  and  bimg  up  closely  in 
clean  casks. 

A  gentleman  of  Denver  writes  he  has  a  sure  preservative:  Put  eight  gallons 
of  cider  at  a  time  into  a  clean  barrel;  take  one  ounce  of  powdered  charcoal;  and 
one  ounce  of  powdered  sulphur;  mix,  and  put  it  into  some  iron  vessel  that  will 
go  down  through  the  bung-hole  of  the  barrel.  Now  put  a  piece  of  red-hot  iron 
into  the  charcoal  and  sulphur,  and  while  it  is  burning,  lower  it  through  the 
bung-hole  to  within  one  foot  of  the  cider,  and  suspend  it  there  by  a  piece  of 
wire.  Bring  it  up  and  in  twelve  hours  you  can  cure  another  batch.  Put  the 
cider  in  a  tight  barrel  and  keep  in  a  cool  cellar  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 

A  Holland  recipe: — To  one  quart  of  new  milk,  fresh  from  the  cow  (not 
strained),  add  one-half  pound  of  ground  black  mustard  seed  and  six  eggs.  Beat 
the  whole  well  together,  and  pour  into  a  barrel  of  cider.  It  will  keep  cider  sweet 
for  one  year  or  more. 

TO  BLEACH  COTTON  CLOTH. 

Take  one  large  spoonful  of  sal  soda  and  one  pound  of  chloride  lime  for  thir- 
ty yards;  dissolve  in  clean,  soft  water;  rinse  the  cloth  thoroughly  in  cold, 


MISCELLANEO  US  RECIPES,  46  7 

soft  water  so  that  it  may  not  rot.    This  amount  of  cloth  may  be  bleached  in 
fourteen  or  fifteen  minutes. 

A  POLISH  FOR  LEATHER. 

Put  a  half  pound  of  shellac  broken  up  in  small  pieces  into  a  quart  bottle  or 
jug,  cover  it  with  alcohol,  cork  it  tight,  and  put  it  on  the  shelf  in  a  warm  place; 
shake  it  well  several  times  a  day,  then  add  a  piece  of  camphor  as  large  as  a  hen's 
egg;  shake  it  well,  and  in  a  few  hours  shake  it  again  and  add  one  ounce  of  lamp- 
black. If  the  alcohol  is  good,  it  wiU  aU  be  dissolved  in  two  days;  then  shake 
and  use.  If  the  materials  were  of  the  proper  kind,  the  polish  correctly  prepared, 
it  will  dry  in  about  five  minutes,  giving  a  gloss  equal  to  patent  leather.  Using 
aniline  dyes  instead  of  the  lampblack,  you  can  have  it  any  desired  color,  and  it 
can  be  used  on  wood  or  hard  paper. 

TO  SOFTEN  WATER. 

Add  half  a  pound  of  the  best  quick  Ume  dissolved  in  water  to  every  hundred 
gallons.  Smaller  proportions  may  be  more  conveniently  managed,  and  if  al- 
lowed to  stand  a  short  time  the  lime  will  have  united  with  the  carbonate  of  lime, 
and  been  deposited  at  the  bottom  of  the  receptacle.  Another  way  is  to  put  a 
gallon  of  lye  into  a  barrelful  of  water,  or  two  or  three  shovels  full  of  wood-ashes, 
let  stand  over  night;  it  will  be  clear  and  soft. 

WASHING  FLUID. 

One  gallon  of  water  and  four  pounds  of  ordinary  washing  soda,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  soda.  Heat  the  water  to  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  soda,  boil 
about  five  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  two  pounds  of  unslaked  lime,  let  it  bubble 
and  foam  until  it  settles,  turn  it  oflP  and  bottle  it  for  use.  This  is  the  article  that 
is  used  in  the  Chinese  laundries  for  whitening  their  linen,  and  is  called  '*  Javelle 
water;' '  a  tablespoonful  put  into  a  suds  of  three  gallons,  and  a  httle,  say  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cupful,  in  the  boiler  when  boiling  the  clothes,  makes  them  very  white 
and  clear.  Must  be  well-rinsed  afterwards.  This  preparation  will  remove  tea 
stains,  and  almost  all  ordinary  stains  of  fruit,  grass,  etc.  This  fluid  brightens 
the  colors  of  colored  clothes,  does  not  rot  them,  but  should  not  be  left  Umg  in 
any  water;  the  boiling,  sudsing,  rinsing  and  blueing,  should  be  done  in  quick 
succession^  imtil  the  clothes  are  ready  to  hang  on  the  line. 

HARD  SOAP.     (Washing.) 

Six  pounds  of  washing  soda,  and  three  of  unslaked  lime.  Pour  on  four  gal- 
lons of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  until  perfectly  clear,  then  drain  off,  and  put  in 


468  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

six  pounds  of  clean  fat.  Boil  it  until  it  begins  to  harden  about  two  hours,  stir* 
ring  most  of  the  time.  While  boiling,  thin  it  with  two  gallons  of  cold  wat^^ 
which  you  have  previously  poured  on  the  alkaline  mixture,  after  draining  off 
the  f oin:  gallons.  This  must  be  settled  dear  before  it  is  drawn  off.  Add  it  when 
there  is  danger  of  boiling  over.  Try  the  thickness  by  cooling  a  little  on  a  plate. 
Put  in  a  handful  of  salt  jusfc  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Wet  a  tub  to  prevent 
sticking;  turn  in  the  soap,  and  let  it  stand  until  solid.  Cut  into  bars«  put  on  a 
board  and  let  it  dry.  This  makes  about  forty  pounds  of  soap.  It  can  be 
flavored  just  as  you  turn  it  out. 

SOAP  FOR  WASHING  WITHOUT  RUBBING. 

A  soap  to  dean  clothes  without  rubbing:  Take  two  pounds  of  sal  soda,  two 
pounds  of  common  bar  soap,  and  ten  quarts  of  water.  Cut  the  soap  in  thin  slices, 
and  boil  together  two  hours;  strain,  and  it  wiU  be  fit  for  use.  Put  the  clothes 
in  soak  the  night  before  you  wash,  and  to  every  pailful  of  water  in  which  you 
boil  them  add  a  pound  of  soap.     They  will  need  no  rubbing,  but  merely  rinsing. 

TO  MAKE  SOFT  SOAP  WITHOUT  COOKING. 

Pour  two  pailfuls  of  boiling  water  upon  twenty  pounds  of  potash,  and  let  it 
stand  two  hours.  Have  ready  thirty  pounds  of  clean  grease,  upon  which  pour 
one  pailful  of  the  lye,  adding  another  pail  of  water  to  the  potash;  let  it  stand 
three  or  fom:  hours,  stir  it  well;  then  pom*  a  gallon  of  the  lye  upon  the  grease, 
stir  it  well;  and  in  half  an  hour  another  gallon  of  the  lye,  stir  it  thoroughly;  in 
half  an  hour  repeat  the  process,  and  thus  proceed  until  you  have  poured  off  all 
the  lye;  then  add  two  pails  of  boiling  hot  water  to  the  remainder  of  the  potashes, 
and  let  it  stand  ten  hours;  then  stir  the  mixture,  and  if  it  has  become  stiff,  and 
the  grease  has  disappeared  from  the  surface,  take  out  a  little,  and  see  whether 
the  weak  lye  will  thicken  it;  if  it  does,  add  the  lye;  if  it  does  not,  try  water,  and 
if  that  thickens  it,  let  it  stand  another  day,  stirring  it  well  five  or  six  times  dur- 
ing  the  day;  if  the  lye  does  not  separate  from  the  grease  you  may  fill  up  with 
water. 

OLD-STYLE  FAMILY  SOFT  SOAP. 

To  set  the  leachy  bore  several  holes  in  the  bottom  of  a  barrel;  or  use  one  with- 
out a  bottom;  prepare  a  board  larger  than  the  barrel,  then  set  the  barrel  on  it, 
and  cut  a  grove  around  just  outside  the  barrel,  making  one  grove  from  this  to 
the  edge  of  the  board,  to  carry  off  the  lye  as  it  runs  off,  with  a  groove  around  it, 
running  into  one  in  the  centre  of  the  board.  Place  all  two  feet  from  the  ground 
and  tip  it  so  that  the  lye  may  run  easily  from  the  board  into  the  vessel  below 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  469 

prepared  to  receive  it.  Put  half  bricks  or  stones  around  the  edge  of  the  inside 
of  the  barrel;  place  on  them  one  end  of  some  sticks  about  two  inches  wide,  in- 
clining to  the  centre;  on  those  place  some  straw  to  the  depth  of  two  inches,  over 
it  scatter  two  pounds  of  slaked  lime.  Put  in  ashes,  about  half  of  a  bushel  at  a 
time,  pack  it  well,  by  pounding  it  down,  and  continue  doing  so  until  the  barrel 
is  full,  leaving  a  funnel-shaped  hollow  in  the  centre  large  enough  to  hold  several 
quarts  of  water.  Use  rain  water  boiling  hot.  Let  the  water  disappear  before 
adding  more.  If  the  ashes  are  packed  very  tightly  it  may  require  two  or  three 
days  before  the  lye  will  begin  to  run,  but  it  will  be  the  stronger  for  it,  and  much 
better. 

To  make  boiled  soft  soap.  Put  in  a  kettle  the  grease  consisting  of  all  kinds 
of  fat  that  has  accumulated  in  the  kitchen,  such  as  scraps  and  bones  from  the 
soup-kettle,  rinds  from  meat,  etc.;  fill  the  kettle  half  full;  if  there  is  too  much 
grease  it  can  be  skimmed  off  after  the  soap  is  cold,  for  another  kettle  of  soap. 
This  is  the  only  true  test  when  enough  grease  is  used,  as  the  lye  will  consume  all 
that  is  needed  and  no  more.  Make  a  fire  under  one  side  of  it.  The  kettle  should 
be  in  an  out-house  or  out  of  doors.  Let  it  heat  very  hot  so  as  to  fry;  stir  occa- 
sionally to  prevent  burning.  Now  put  in  the  lye  a  gallon  at  a  time,  watching 
it  closely  until  it  boils,  as  it  sometimes  runs  over  at  the  beginning.  Add  lye 
until  the  kettle  is  full  enough,  but  not  toofvll  to  boil  well.  Soap  should  boil 
from  the  side  and  not  the  middle,  as  this  would  be  more  likely  to  cause  it  to 
boil  over.  To  test  the  soap,  to  one  spoonful  of  soap  add  one  of  rain-water;  if 
it  stirs  up  very  thick,  the  soap  is  good  and  wiU  keep;  if  it  becomes  thinner,  it  is 
not  good.  This  is  the  result  of  one  of  three  causes,  either  it  is  too  weak,  or 
there  is  a  deposit  of  dirt,  or  it  is  too  strong.  Continue  to  boQ  for  a  few  hours, 
when  it  should  flow  from  the  stick  with  which  it  is  stirred,  like  thick  molasses; 
but  if  after  boiling  it  remains  thin,  let  it  stand  over  night,  removing  it  from  the 
fire,  then  draining  it  off  very  carefully  into  another  vessel,  being  very  particular 
to  prevent  any  sediment  from  passing.  Wash  the  kettle,  return  the  soap,  and 
boil  again,  if  dirt  was  the  cause;  it  will  now  be  thick  and  good;  otherwise,  if 
it  was  too  strong^  rain-water  added  will  make  it  right,  adding  the  water  grad- 
ually until  right  and  just  thick  enough. 


An  agreeable  Disinfectant:  Sprinkle  fresh  ground  coffee  on  a  shovel  of  hot 
coals,  or  bum  sugar  on  hot  coals.  Vinegar  boiled  with  myrrh,  sprinkled  on  the 
floor  and  furniture  of  a  sick  room,  are  excellent  deodorizers. 

To  prevent  Mold:  A  small  quantity  of  carboUc  acid  added  to  pasfce,  mucilage, 
and  ink,  will  prevent  mold.  An  ounce  of  the  add  to  a  gallon  of  white- wash  wiU 
keep  cellars  and  dairies  from  the  disagreeable  odor  which  often  tadnts  milk  and 
meat  kept  in  such  places. 

To  make  Tracing-paper: — ^Dissolve  a  ball  of  white  bees- wax,  one  inch  in  di- 
ameter, in  half  a  pint  of  tiupentine.  Saturate  the  paper  in  this  bath  and  let  it 
dry  two  or  three  days  before  using. 

To  preserve  Brooms:  Dip  them  for  a  minute  or  two  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  suds 
once  a  week  and  they  will  last  much  longer,  making  them  tough  and  pliable.  A 
carpet  wears  much  longer  swept  with  a  broom  cared  for  in  this  manner. 

To  clean  Brass-warCy  etc. :  Mix  one  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  six  ounces  of  rotten 
stone,  all  in  powder,  one  ounce  of  sweet  oil,  and  sufGlcient  water  to  make  a  paste. 
Apply  a  small  portion,  and  rub  dry  with  a  flannel  or  leather.  The  liquid  dip 
most  generally  used  consists  of  nitric  and  sulphuric  acids;  but  this  is  more  cor- 
rosive. 

Polishy  or  Enamel  for  Shirt-bosomSy  is  made  by  melting  together  one  ounce 
of  white  wax,  and  two  ounces  of  spermaceti;  heat  gently  and  turn  into  a  very 
shallow  pan;  when  cold  cut  or  break  in  pieces.  When  making  boiled  starch  the 
usual  way,  enough  for  a  dozen  bosoms,  add  to  it  a  piece  of  the  polish  the  size  of 
a  hazel  nut. 

• 

An  Erosive  Fluid  for  the  Removal  of  Spots  on  Furniture^  and  all  kinds  of 
fabrics,  without  injuring  the  color,  is  made  of  four  ounces  of  aqua  ammonia^ 


FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING.  471 

one  ounce  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  castile  soap  and  one  of  spirits  of  wine.  Dis- 
solve the  soap  in  two  quarts  of  soft  water,  add  the  other  ingredients.  Apply 
with  a  soft  sponge,  and  rub  out.    Very  good  for  cleaning  silks. 

To  remove  the  Odor  of  Onion  from  fish-kettle  and  sauce-pans  in  which  they 
have  been  cooked,  put  wood-ashes  or  sal  soda,  potash  or  lye;  fill  with  water  and 
let  stand  on  the  stove  until  it  boils;  then  wash  in  hot  suds,  and  rinse  well. 

To  clean  Marble  Busts:  First  free  them  from  all  dust,  then  wash  them  with 
very  weak  hydrochloric  acid.    Soap  injures  the  color  of  marble. 

To  remove  old  Putty  from  Window  Frames,  pass  a  red-hot  poker  slowly  over 
it  and  it  will«come  off  easily. 

Hanging  Pictures:  The  most  safe  material  and  also  the  best,  is  copper  wire^ 
of  the  size  proportioned  to  the  weight  of  the  picture.  When  hung  the  wire  is 
scarcely  visible,  and  its  strength  is  far  superior  to  cord. 

To  keep  Milk  Sweet:  Put  into  a  panful  a  spoonful  of  grated  horse-radish, 
it  will  keep  it  sweet  for  days. 

To  take  Bust  from  Steel  Implem^ents  or  Knives:  Eub  them  well  with  kerosene 
oil,  leaving  them  covered  with  it  a  day  or  so;  then  rub  them  hard  and  well  with 
finely  powdered  imslaked  lime. 

Poison  Water:  Water  boiled  in  galvanized  iron  becomes  poisonous,  and  cold 
water  passed  through  zinc-lined  iron  pipes  should  never  be  used  for  cooking  or 
drinking.  Hot  water  for  cooking  should  never  be  taken  from  hot  water  pipes; 
keep  a  supply  heated  in  kettles. 

Scouring  Soap  for  Cotton  and  Silk  Ooods:  Mix  one  pound  of  cormnon  soap, 
half  of  a  pound  of  beef -gall  and  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  Venetian  turpentine 

A  Paint  for  Wood  or  Stone  that  resists  all  Moisture:  Melt  twelve  ounces  of 
resin;  mix  with  it,  thoroughly,  six  gallons  of  fish  oil,  and  one  pound  of  melted 
sulphur.  Eub  up  some  ochre  or  any  other  coloring  substance  with  a  httle  lin- 
seed oil,  enough  to  give  it  the  right  color  and  thickness.  Apply  several  coats 
of  the  hot  composition  with  a  brush.    The  first  coat  should  be  very  thiiL 

To  Ventilate  a  Boom:  Place  a  pitcher  of  cold  water  on  a  table  in  your  room 
and  it  will  absorb  all  the  gases  with  which  the  room  is  filled  from  the  respiration 
of  those  eating  or  sleeping  in  the  apartment.  Very  few  realize  how  important 
such  purification  is  for  the  health  of  the  family,  or,  indeed,  imderstand  or  rea- 
lize that  there  can  be  any  impurity  in  the  rooms;  yet  in  a  few  hours  a  pitcher 


472  FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

or  pail  of  cold  water— the  colder  the  more  effective — ^will  make  the  air  of  a  room 

pure,  but  the  water  will  be  entirely  unfit  for  use. 

■» 

TofiO,  Cracks  in  Plaster:  Use  vinegar  instead  of  water  to  mix  your  plaster 
of  Paris.  The  resultant  mass  will  be  like  putty,  and  will  not  "  set "  for  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes;  whereas  if  you  use  water  the  plaster  will  become  hard  almost 
immediately,  before  you  have  time  to  use  it.  Push  it  into  the  cracks  and  smooth 
it  off  nicely  with  a  table-knife. 

To  take  Spots  from  Wash  Goods:  Rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  egg  before 
washing. 

To  take  White  Spots  from  Varnished  Furniture:  Hold  a  hot  stove  lid  or 
plate  over  them  and  they  will  soon  disappear. 

To  prevent  Oil  from  becoming  Bancid:  Drop  a  few  drops  of  ether  into  the 
bottle  containing  it. 

Troublesome  Ants:  A  heavy  chalk-mark  laid  a  finger's  distance  from  your 
sugar-box  and  all  around  (there  must  be  no  space  not  covered)  will  surely  pre* 
vent  ants  from  troubhng. 

To  make  Tough  Meat  Tender:  Lay  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  strong  vinegar 
water. 

To  remove  Discoloration  from  Bruises:  Apply  a  doth  wrung  out  in  very 
hot  water,  and  renew  frequently  until  the  pain  ceases.    Or  apply  raw  beefsteak. 

A  Oood  Polish  for  removing  Stains^  SpotSy  and  Mildew  from  Furniture,  is 
made  as  follows:  Take  half  a  pint  of  ninety -eight  per  cent,  alcohol;  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  each  of  pulverized  resin  and  gum  shell£u;;  add  half  a  pint  of  linseed 
oil;  shake  well  and  apply  with  a  brush  or  sponge. 

To  remove  Finger-marks:  Sweet  oil  will  remove  finger-marks  from  var- 
nished furniture,  and  kerosene  from  oiled  furniture. 

To  remove  Paint  from  Black  SUk:  Patient  rubbing  with  chloroform  will 
remove  paint  from  black  silk  or  any  other  goods,  and  will  not  hurt  the  most 
delicate  color  or  fabric. 

To  freshen  Oilt  Framss:  Gilt  frames  may  be  revived  by  carefully  dusting* 
them,  and  then  washing  with  one  ounce  of  soda  beaten  up  with  the  whites  of 
three  eggs.  Scraped  patches  might  be  touched  up  with  Judson's  or  any  gold 
paint.  Castile  soap  and  water,  with  proper  care,  may  be  used  to  clean  oil  paint- 
ings;  other  methods  should  not  be  employed  without  some  skill. 


FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING.  473. 

To  destroy  Moths  in  Furniture:  All  the  baMng  and  steaming  are  useless, 
as,  although  the  moths  may  be  killed,  their  eggs  are  sure  to  hatch,  and  the  up- 
holstery to  be  well  riddled.  The  naphtha-bath  process  is  effectual.  A  sofa, 
chau*  or  loimge  may  be  immersed  in  the  large  vats  used  for  the  purpose,  and  all 
insect  life  will  be  absolutely  destroyed.  No  egg  ever  hatches  after  passing 
through  the  naphtha-bath;  all  oil,  dirt,  or  grease  disappears,  and  not  the  sUght- 
est  damage  is  done  to  the  most  costly  article.  Sponging  with  naphtha  will  not 
answer.  It  is  the  immersion  for  two  hours  or  more  in  the  specially  prepared 
vats  which  is  effectual. 

Slicing  Pine-apples:    The  knife  used  for  peeUng  a  pine-apple  should  not  bo- 
used for  sUcing  it,  as  the  rind  contains  an  acid  that  is  apt  to  cause  a  swollen 
mouth  and  sore  lips.    The  Cubans  use  salt  as  an  antidote  for  the  ill  effects  of' 
the  peel. 

To  deem  Iron  Sinks:    Rub  them  well  with  a  doth  wet  with  kerosene  oil. 

To  erase  Discoloration  on  Stone-china:    Dishes  and  cups  that  are  used  for* 
baking  custards,  puddings,  etc.,  that  require  scouring,  maybe  easily  cleaned  by 
rubbing  with  a  damp  doth  dipped  in  whiting  or  "Sapolio,"  then  washed  as, 
usual. 

• 

To  remove  InkyWine  or  Fruit  Stains:  Saturate  well  in  tomato  juice;  it  is 
also  an  excellent  thing  to  remove  stains  from  the  hands. 

To  set  Colors  in  Washable  Goods:  Soak  them  previous  to  washing  in  a 
water  in  which  is  allowed  a  tablespoonful  of  ox-gall  to  a  gallon  of  water. 

To  take  out  Paint:  Equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  turpentine  will  take  paint 
out  of  clothing,  no  matter  how  dry  or  hard  it  may  be.  Saturate  the  spot  two  or 
three  times,  then  wash  out  in  soap-suds.  Ten  cents'  worth  of  oxalic  acid  dis- 
solved in  a  pint  of  hot  water  will  remove  paint  spots  from  the  windows.  Pour 
a  Uttle  into  a  cup,  and  apply  to  the  spots  with  a  swab,  but  be  sure  not  to  allow 
the  acid  to  touch  the  hands.  Brasses  may  be  quickly  cleaned  with  it.  Great 
care  must  be  exercised  in  labelling  the  bottle,  and  putting  it  out  of  the  reach  of 
children,  as  it  is  a  deadly  poison. 

To  remove  Tar  from  Cloth:  Saturate  the  spot  and  rub  it  well  with  turpen- 
tine, and  every  trace  of  tar  will  be  removed. 

To  destroy  Ants:  Ants  that  frequent  houses  or  gardens  may  be  destroyed  by 
taking  floiu*  of  brimstone  half  a  pound,  and  potash  four  ounces;  set  them  in  an 
iron  or  earthem  pan  over  the  fire  rmtil  dissolved  and  united;  afterwards  beats 


474  FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

them  to  a  powder,  and  infuse  a  little  of  this  powder  in  water,  and  wherever  joa 
sprinkle  it  the  ants  will  fly  the  place. 

Simple  Disinfectant:  The  following  is  a  refreshing  disinfectant  for  a  sick 
room,  or  any  room  that  has  an  mipleasant  aroma  pervading  it:  Pat  some  fresh 
gromid  coffee  in  a  saucer,  and  in  the  centre  place  a  small  piece  of  camphor  gum, 
which  light  with  a  match.  As  the  gum  bums,  allow  sufficient  coffee  to  consume 
with  it.  The  perfume  is  very  pleasant  and  healthful,  being  far  superior  to  pas- 
tiles,  and  very  much  cheaper. 

Cure  for  Hiccough:  Sit  erect  and  inflate  the  lungs  fully.  Then,  retaining 
the  breath,  bend  forward  slowly  until  the  chest  meets  the  knees.  After  slowly 
rising  again  to  the  erect  position,  slowly  exhale  the  breath.  Bepeat  this  process 
a  second  time,  and  the  nerves  will  be  found  to  have  received  an  access  of  energy 
that  will  enable  them  to  perform  their  natural  functions. 

To  keep  out  Mosguitos  and  Rats:  If  a  bottle  of  the  oil  of  penny-royal  is  left 
uncorked  in  a  room  at  night,  not  a  mosquito,  nor  any  other  blood-sucker, will  be 
found  there  in  the  morning.  Mix  potash  with  powdered  meal,  and  throw  it 
into  the  rat-holes  of  a  cellar,  and  the  rats  will  depart.  If  a  rat  or  a  mouse  get 
into  your  pantry,  stuff  into  its  hole  a  rag  saturated  with  a  solution  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  no  rat  or  mouse  will  touch  the  rag  for  the  purpose  of  opening  com- 
munication with  a  depot  of  supplies. 

Salt  will  Curdle  new  Milk;  hence,  in  preparing  porridge,  gravies,  etc.,  the 
salt  should  not  be  added  until  the  dish  is  prepared. 

To  prevent  Bust  on  Flat-irons:  Bees-wax  and  salt  will  make  your  rusty  flat- 
irons  as  smooth  and  dean  as  glass.  Tie  a  lump  of  wax  in  a  rag  and  keep  it  for 
that  purpose.  When  the  irons  are  hot,  iTib  them  first  with  the  wax  rag,  then 
scour  with  a  paper  or  cloth  sprinkled  with  salt. 

To  prevent  Rust  on  Knives:  Steel  knives  which  are  not  in  general  use  may 
be  kept  from  rusting  if  they  are  dipped  in  a  strong  solution  of  soda;  one  part 
water  te  four  of  soda;  then  wipe  dry,  roll  in  flannel,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Flowers  may  be  kept  very  Fresh  over  Night  if  they  are  excluded  from  the 
air.  To  do  this,  wet  them  thoroughly,  put  in  a  damp  box,  and  cover  with  wet 
raw  cotton  or  wet  newspaper,  then  place  in  a  cool  spot. 

To  sweeten  Milk:  Milk  which  is  slightly  turned  or  changed  may  be  sweet- 
ened and  rendered  fit  for  use  again  by  stirring  in  a  little  soda. 

To  scour  Knives  easily:  Mix  a  small  quantity  of  baking  soda  with  your 
brick-dust  and  see  if  your  knives  do  not  polish  better. 


FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING.  475 

To  sOf^^n  Boots  and  Shoes:  Kerosene  will  soften  boots  and  shoes  which 
have  been  hardened  by  water,  and  render  them  as  pliable  as  new.  Kerosene 
will  make  tin  tea-kettles  as  bright  as  new.  Saturate  a  woolen  rag  and  rub  with 
it.    It  will  also  remove  stains  from  clean  varnished  furniture. 

Faded  Chods:  Plush  goods  and  all  articles  dyed  with  aniline  colors  which 
have  faded  from  exposure  to  the  hght  wiU  look  as  bright  as  new  after  sponging 
with  chloroform. 

Choking: .  A  piece  of  food  lodged  in  the  throat  may  sometimes  be  pushed 
down  with  the  flmger,  or  removed  with  a  hair-pin  quickly  straightened  and 
hooked  at  the  end,  or  by  two  or  three  vigorous  blows  on  the  back  between  the 
shoulders. 

To  prevent  Mold  on  the  top  of  Glasses  of  JeUyy  lay  a  lump  of  paraflftne  on 
the  top  of  the  hot  jelly,  letting  it  melt  and  spread  over  it.  No  brandy  paper  and 
no  other  covering  is  necessary.  If  preferred  the  parafiSne  can  be  melted  and 
poured  over  after  the  jelly  is  cold. 

To  preserve  Ribbons  and  Silks:  Ribbons  and  silks  should  be  put  away  for 
preservation  in  brown  paper;  the  chloride  of  lime  in  white  paper  discolors  them. 
A  white  satin  dress  should  be  pinned  up  in  blue  paper  with  brown  paper  outside 
sewn  together  at  the  edges. 

To  preserve  Bouquets:  Put  a  little  saltpetre  in  the  water  you  use  for  your 
bouquets,  and  the  flowers  will  live  for  a  fortnight. 

To  destroy  Cockroaches:  Hellebore  sprinkled  on  the  floor  at  night.  They 
eat  it  and  are  poisoned. 

To  remove  Iron  Bust:  Lemon-juice  and  salt  will  remove  ordinary  iron 
rust.  If  the  hands  are  stained  there  is  nothing  that  will  remove  the  stains  as 
well  as  lemon.  Out  a  lemon  in  halves  and  apply  the  cut  surface  as  if  it  were 
soap. 

To  keep  Bar  Soap:  Cut  it  into  pieces  and  put  it  into  a  dry  place;  it  is  more 
economical  to  use  after  it  has  become  hard,  as  it  does  not  waste  so  readily. 

To  brighten  Carpets:  Carpets  after  the  dust  has  been  beaten  out  may  be 
brightened  by  scattering  upon  them  corn-meal  mixed  with  salt  and  then  sweep- 
ing it  off.  Mix  salt  and  meal  in  equal  proportions.  Carpets  should  be  thoroughly 
beaten  on  the  wrong  side  first  and  then  on  the  right  side,  after  which  spots  may 
be  removed  by  the  use  of  ox-gall  or  ammonia  and  water. 

Silver  Tea  and  Coffee-pot:    When  putting  away  those  not  in  use  every 


476  FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

day  lay  a  little  stick  acFoes  the  top  under  the  cover.  This  will  allow  fresh  air  to 
get  in  and  prevent  the  mustiness  of  the  contents,  fanuliar  to  hotel  and  boarding- 
house  sufferers. 

Toprefwrd  Creaking  of  Bedsteads:  If  a  bedstead  creaks  at  each  movement 
of  the  sleeper,  remove  the  slats,  and  wrap  the  ends  of  each  in  old  newspapers. 

To  clean  Unvarnished  Black  Walnut:  Milk,  sour  or  sweet,  well-rubbed  in 
with  an  old,  soft  flannel,  will  make  black  walnut  look  new. 

To  prevent  Cracking  of  Bottles  and  Fruit-jars:  If  a  bottle  or  fruit- jar  that 
has  been  more  than  once  used  is  placed  on  a  towel  thoroughly  soaked  in  hot 
water,  there  is  little  danger  of  its  being  cracked  by  the  introduction  of  a  hot 
liquid. 

To  prevent  Lamp-wicks  from  Smoking:  Soak  them  in  vinegar,  and  then  dry 
them  thoroughly. 

Rub  the  nickel  stove-trimmings  and  the  plated  handles  and  hinges  of  doors 
with  kerosene  and  whiting,  and  polish  with  a  dry  cloth. 

Deaih  to  Bugs:  Varnish  is  death  to  the  most  persistent  bug.  It  is  cheap- 
ten  cents'  worth  will  do  for  one  bedstead — ^is  easily  used,  is  safe,  and  improves 
the  looks  of  the  furniture  to  which  it  is  applied.  The  application  must,  however, 
be  thorough,  the  slats,  sides,  and  every  crack  and  comer  receiving  attention. 

That  salt  should  be  eaten  with  nuts  to  aid  digestion. 

That  milk  which  stands  too  long  makes  bitter  butter. 

To  clean  Drain  Pipes:  Drain  pipes,  and  all  places  that  are  sour  or  impure, 
may  be  cleaned  with  lime-water  or  carbolic  acid. 

If  oil  doth  be  occasionally  rubbed  with  a  mixture  of  beeswax  and  turpen- 
tine, it  will  last  longer. 

To  remove  Mildew  from  Cloth:  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  chloride  of  lime  into  a 
quart  of  water,  strain  it  twice,  then  dip  the  mildewed  places  in  this  weak  solu- 
tion; lay  in  the  sun;  if  the  mildew  has  not  disappeared  when  dry,  repeat  the 
operation.  Also  soaking  the  article  in  sour  milk  and  salt;  then  lay  in  the  sun; 
repeat  until  all  the  mildew  is  out. 

To  take  Ink  out  of  Linen:  Dip  the  ink-spot  in  pure  melted  tallow,  then  wash 
out  the  taUow  and  the  ink  will  come  out  with  it.  This  is  said  to  be  unfailing. 
Milk  will  remove  ink  from  linen  or  colored  muslins,  when  acids  would  be  ruin-r 
ous,  by  soaking  the  goods  until  the  spot  is  very  faint  and  then  rubbing  and  rins- 
ing in  cold  water. 


FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING.  A77 

Ink  £fpots  on  floors  can  be  extracted  by  scouring  with  sand  wet  in  oil  of 
vitriol  and  water.    When  ink  is  removed^  rinse  with  strong  pearl-ash  water. 

To  toughen  Lamp-chimneys  and  Glass-ware:  Immerse  the  article  in  a  pot 
filled  with  cold  water,  to  which  some  common  salt  has  been  added.  Boil  the 
water  well  then  cool  slowly.  Glass  treated  in  this  way,  will  resist  any  sudden 
change  of  temperature. 

To  remove  Paint  from  Window-glass:    Rub  it  well  with  hot  sharp  vinegar. 

To  clean  Stove-pipe:  A  piece  of  zinc  put  on  the  live  coals  in  the  stove  will 
dean  out  the  stove-pipe. 

Packing  Bottles:  India-rubber  bands  sUpped  over  them  will  prevent  break- 
age. 

To  clean  Ivory  Ornaments:  When  ivory  ornaments  become  yellow  or  dusky, 
wash  them  well  in  soap  and  water  with  a  small  brush,  to  clean  the  carvings, 
and  then  place  them,  while  wet,  in  the  sunshine.  Wet  them  with  soapy  water 
for  two  or  three  days,  several  times  a  day,  still  keeping  them  in  the  sunshine, 
then  wash  them  again,  and  they  will  be  perfectly  white. 

Stained  Brass:  Whiting  wet  with  aqua  ammonia  will  cleanse  brass  from 
stains,  and  is  excellent  for  polishing  faucets  and  door-knobs  of  brass  or  silver. 
**  Sapoho ''  is  still  better. 

Hartshorn  applied  to  the  stings  of  poisonous  insects  wiU  allay  the  pain  and 
stop  the  swelling;  or  apply  oil  of  sassafras,  which  is  better.  Bee-stings  should 
be  treated  in  this  way. 

For  Cleaning  Glass  Bottles:  Crush  egg-shells  into  small  bits,  or  a  few  carpet 
tacks,  or  a  small  quantity  of  gunshot,  put  into  the  bottle;  then  fill  one-half  full 
of  strong  soap-suds;  shake  thoroughly;  then  rinse  in  clear  water.  Will  look 
like  new. 

Cutting  off  Glass  Bottles  for  Cups  or  Jars:  A  simple,  practical  way  is  to  take 
a  red-hot  poker  with  a  pointed  end;  make  a  mark  with  a  file  to  begin  the  cut; 
then  apply  the  hot  iron  and  a  crack  will  start,  which  will  follow  the  iron  wher- 
ever it  is  carried.  This  is,  on  the  whole,  simple,  and  better  than  the  use  of 
strings  wet  with  turpentine,  etc. 

Cistern  Water  may  be  purified  by  charcoal  put  in  a  bag  and  hung  in  the 
water. 

Salt  will  remove  the  Stain  from  Silver  caused  by  eggs,  when  applied  dry  with 
a  soft  cloth. 


47*  FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

Opened  Fruity  Fish  or  Vegetable:  'Sefveac  aDow  opened  fruit,  fish  or  vege- 
tables to  stand  in  the  tin  can.  Never  stir  anything  in  tin,  or,  if  it  is  done,  use 
a  wooden  spoon*  In  lifting  pies  or  cakes  from  bright  tin  pans,  use  great  caution 
that  the  knife  does  not  scrape  off  flecks  of  fari^t  metaL 

Never  nse  water  which  has  stood  in  a  lead  pipe  over  ni^t  Not  less  than 
a  wooden  bucketful  should  he  allowed  to  run. 

Never  use  water  from  a  stone  reservoir  for  cooking  purposes. 

Never  allow  fresh  meat  to  remain  in  paper;  it  absorbs  the  juices. 

Never  keep  vinegar  or  yeast  in  stone  crocks  or  jugs;  their  acid  attacks  the 
glazing,  which  is  said  to  be  poisonous.    Glass  for  either  is  bettw. 

Squeaking  doors  ought  to  have  the  hinges  oiled  by  putting  on  a  drop  from 
the  sewing  machine  oil-can. 

Plate  Glass  and  Mirrors:  A  soft  cloth,  wetted  in  alcohol,  is  excellent  to  wipe 
off  plate  glass  and  mirrors,  and  prevent  their  becoming  frosty  in  winter. 

A  red-hot  iron  will  soften  old  putty  so  that  it  can  be  easily  removed. 

To  test  Nutmegs:  Prick  them  with  a  pin;  if  good,  the  oil  will  instantly  spread 
around  the  puncture. 

A  good  Way  to  clean  Mica  in  a  stove  that  has  become  blackened  with  smoke^ 
is  to  take  it  out,  and  thoroughly  wash  it  with  vinegar.  If  the  black  does  not 
come  off  at  once,  let  it  soak  a  little. 

To  bants  ft  Bats  from  the  Premises j  use  pounded  glass  mixed  with  dry  com 
meal,  placed  within  their  reach.  Sprinkling  cayenne  pepper  in  their  holes  will 
also  banish  them.  Chloride  of  Ume  is  an  iofallible  remedy,  spread  around  where 
they  come,  and  thrown  into  their  holes;  it  should  be  renewed  once  in  two  weeks. 
Tar  is  also  a  good  remedy. 

To  prevent  the  Odor  of  Boiling  Ham  or  Cabbage:  Throw  red  pepper  pods  or 
a  few  bits  of  charcoal  into  the  pan  they  are  cooking  in. 

To  brighten  (Hit  Frames:  Take  suflEicient  flour  of  sulphur  to  give  a  golden  tinge 
to  about  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  and  in  this  boil  four  or  five  bruised 
onions,  or  garlic,  which  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  Strain  off  the  Uquid, 
and  with  it,  when  cold,  wash  with  a  soft  brush  any  gilding  which  requires  re- 
storing, and  when  dry,  it  will  come  out  as  bright  as  new  work. 

All  cooking  utensils,  including  iron-ware,  should  be  washed  outside  and  in* 


FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING.  479 

side  in  hot,  soapy  water;  rinsed  in  clean  hot  water,  wiped  dry  with  a  dry  towel; 
a  soapy  or  greasy  dish-cloth  should  never  be  used  for  the  purpose. 

A  cake  of  sapolio  should  be  kept  in  every  kitchen,  to  be  used  freely  on  all 
dishes  that  require  scouring  and  cleansing.  All  tins  that  have  become  discol- 
ored can  be  made  as  bright  and  clean  as  new  by  the  use  of  sapolio;  also  shines 
dishes,  and,  in  fact,  ahnost  all  articles  that  require  any  scouring.  Purchased  at 
all  groceries.    One  of  the  most  useful  articles  ever  used  in  the  kitchen. 


\^  5^i£y •    'flih    • t^'K^'^ •    -^    • •x^'  TS^'C 

COLOGNE  WATER.    (Superior.) 
03  of  lavender,  two  drachms;  oil  of  rosemary,  one  drachm  and  a  half;  orange, 
lemon  and  bergamot,  one  drachm  each  of  the  col;  also  two  drachms  of  the  es- 
sence of  musk,  attar  of  rose  ten  drops,  and  a  [nnt  of  proof  spirit.    Sh^e  all  to- 
gether tiiorou^y  three  times  a  day  for  a  week. 

JOCKEY  CLUB  BOUQUET. 

Mix  one  pint  extract  of  rose,  one  pint  extract  of  tuberose,  half  a  pint  of 
extract  of  cassia,  four  ounces  extract  of  jasmine,  and  three  ounces  tincture  d 
<3vet.    Filter  the  mixtmie. 

ROSE-WATER. 

Preferable  to  the  distilled  for  a  perfume,  or  for  culinary  purposes:  Attar  of 
rose,  twelve  drops;  rub  it  up  with  half  an  ounce  of  white  sugar  and  two  drachms 
carbonate  magnesia;  then  add  gradually  one  quart  of  water,  and  two  ounces  of 
proof  spirit,  and  filter  through  paper. 

BAY  RUM. 

French  proof  spirit  one  gallon,  extract  bay,  six  ounces.  Mix  and  color  with 
caramel;  needs  no  filtering. 

LAVENDER  WATER. 

Oil  of  lavender,  two  ounces;  orris  root,  half  an  ounce;  spirits  of  wine,  one 
pint.  Mix  and  keep  two  or  three  weeks.  It  may  then  be  strained  through  two 
thicknesses  of  blotting-paper  and  is  ready  for  use. 

CREAM  OF  LILIES. 
Best  white  castor  oil;  potur  in  a  little  strong  solution  of  aal  tartar  in  water, 
and  shake  it'untU  it  looks  tiiick  and  white.    Perfume  with  lavender. 


TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS.  48 1 

CREAM  OF  ROSES. 

Olive  oil,  one  pound;  attar  of  roses,  fifty  drops;  oil  of  rosemary,  twenty-five 
drops;  mix,  and  color  it  with  alkanet  root. 

COLD  CREAM. 

Melt  one  ounce  oil  of  almonds,  half -ounce  spermaceti,  one  drachm  white  wax, 
and  then  add  two  oimces  of  rose-water,  and  stir  it  constantly  imtil  cold. 

LIP-SALVE. 

Melt  one  ounce  white  wax,  one  ounce  sweet  oil,  one  drachm  spermaceti,  and 
throw  in  a  piece  of  alkanet  root  to  color  it,  and,  when  cooling,  perfume  it  with 
oil  rose,  and  then  pour  it  into  small  white  jars  or  boxes. 

FOR  DANDRUFF. 

Take  glycerine  four  ounces,  tincture  of  cantharides  five  oimces,  bay  rum 
four  ounces,  water  two  ounces.  Mix,  and  apply  once  a  day,  and  rub  weU  down 
the  scalp. 

HAIR  INVIGORATOR. 

Bay  rum,  two  pints;  alcohol,  one  pint;  castor  oil,  one  ounce;  carb.  ammonia, 
half  an  ounce;  tincture  of  cantharides,  one  ounce.  Mix  them  well.  This  com- 
pound will  promote  the  growth  of  the  hair  and  prevent  it  from  falling  out. 

MACCASSAR  OIL  FOR  THE  HAIR. 

Eenowned  for  the  past  fifty  years,  is  as  follows:  Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  the  chippings  of  alkanet  root,  tie  this  in  a  bit  of  coarse  muslin,  and  put  it  in  a 
bottle  containing  eight  oimces  of  sweet  oil;  cover  it  to  keep  out  the  dust;  let  it 
stand  several  days;  add  to  this  sixty  drops  of  tincture  of  cantharides,  ten  drops 
of  oil  of  rose,  neroh  and  lemon  each  sixty  drops;  let  it  stand  one  week  and  you 
win  have  one  of  the  most  powerful  stimulants  for  the  growth  of  the  hair  ever 
known. 

Another  \ — To  a  pint  of  strong  sage  tea,  a  pint  of  bay  rum  and  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  the  tincture  of  cantharides,  add  an  ounce  of  castor  oil  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  rose,  or  other  perfume.  Shake  well  before  applying  to  the  hair,  as 
the  oil  will  not  mix. 

PHALON'S  INSTANTANEOUS  HAIR  DYE. 

To  one  ounce  of  crystallized  nitrate  of  sUver,  dissolved  in  one  ounce  of  con- 
centrated aqua  ammonia,  add  one  ounce  of  gum  arabic,  and  six  ounces  of  soft 

31 


4^2  TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

water.    Keep  in  the  dark.    Bemember  to  remove  all  grease  from  the  hair  be- 
fore applying  the  dye. 

There  is  danger  in  some  of  the  patent  hair^yes,  and  hence  the  ScietAifc 
American  offers  what  is  known  as  the  walnut  hair-dye.  The  simplest  fomi  is 
the  expressed  juice  of  the  bark  or  shell  of  green  walnuts.  To  presOTve  the  juice 
a  little  alcohol  is  commonly  added  to  it  with  a  few  bruised  doves,  and  the  whole 
digested  together,  with  occasional  agitation  for  a  week  or  fortnight,  when  the 
clear  portion  is  decanted,  and,  if  necessary,  filtered.  Sometimes  a  little  com- 
mon salt  is  added  with  the  same  intention.  It  should  be  kept  in  a  ood  plaoe. 
The  most  convenient  way  of  application  is  by  means  of  a  sponge. 

DYE  FOR  WHITE  OR  LIGHT  EYEBROWS. 
Boil  an  ounce  of  walnut  bark  in  a  pint  of  water  for  an  hour.    Add  a  lump  of 
alum  the  size  of  a  filbert,  and  when  cold,  apply  with  a  camel's-hair  brush. 

HAIR  WASH. 

One  penny  worth  of  borax,  half  a  pint  of  olive  oil,  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  borax  and  oil;  let  it  cool;  then  put  the  mix- 
ture into  a  bottle.  Shake  it  before  using,  and  apply  it  with  a  flannel  Camphor 
and  borax,  dissolved  in  boiling  water  and  left  to  cool,  make  a  very  good  wash 
for  the  hair;  as  also  does  rosemary  water  mixed  with  a  Uttle  borax.  After 
using  any  of  these  washes,  when  the  hair  becomes  thoroughly  dry,  a  litUe  po- 
matum or  oil  should  be  rubbed  in  to  make  it  smooth  and  glossy—- that  is^  if  one 
prefers  oil  on  the  hair. 

OX-MARROW  POMADE  FOR  THE  HAIR. 

One  marrow  bone,  half  a  pint  of  oil,  ten  cents'  worth  of  dtronella.  Take  the 
marrow  out  of  the  bone,  place  it  in  warm  water,  let  it  get  ahnost  to  boilirig 
point,  then  let  it  cool  and  pour  the  water  away;  repeat  this  three  times  until  the 
marrow  is  thoroughly  "  fined.'*  Beat  the  marrow  to  a  cream  with  a  sQver  fork, 
stir  the  oil  in,  drop  by  drop,  beating  aU  the  time;  when  quite  cold  add  the  dt- 
ronella, pour  into  jars  and  cover  down. 

TO  INCREASE  THE  HAIR  IN  THE  BROWS. 

Clip  them  and  anoint  with  a  little  sweet  oiL  Should  the  hair  fall  out,  having 
been  full,  use  one  of  the  hair  invigorators. 

BANDOLINE. 
To  one  quart  of  rose-water  add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  gum  tragacanth;  let 
it  stand  forty-eight  hoius,  frequently  straining  it,  then  strain  through  a  coarse 


TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS.  483 

Unen  doth;  let  it  stand  two  days,  and  again  strain;  add  to  it  a  drachm  of  oil  of 
roses.    Used  by  ladies  dressing  their  hair,  to  make  it  lie  in  any  position. 

COMPLEXION  WASH. 

Put  in  a  vial  one  drachm  of  benzoin  gum  in  powder^  one  drachm  nutmeg  oil, 
six  drops  of  orange-blossom  tea,,  or  apple  blossoms  put  in  half  pint  of  rain-water 
and  boiled  down  to  one  teaspoonful  and  strained,  one  pint  of  sherry  wine.  Bathe 
the  face  morning  and  night;  will  remove  all  flesh-worms  and  freckles,  and  give 
a  beautiful  complexion.  Or,  put  one  oimce  of  powdered  gum  of  benzoin  in  a 
pint  of  whiskey;  to  use,  put  in  water  in  wash-bowl  tiU  it  is  milky,  allowing  it 
to  dry  without  wiping.    This  is  perfectly  harmless. 

Cream  cures  sun-bum  on  some  complexions,  lemon- juice  is  best  on  others, 
and  cold  water  suits  still  others  best. 

BURNET'S  CELEBRATED  POWDER  FOR  THE  FACE. 
Five  cents'  worth  of  bay  rum,  five  cents'  worth  of  magnesia  snowflake,  five 
cents'  worth  of  bergamot,  five  cents'  worth  of  oil  of  lemon;  mix  in  a  pint  bottle 
and  fill  up  with  rain  water.    Shake  well,  and  apply  on  a  soft  sponge  or  cloth. 

TOILET  OR  FACE  POWDER. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  poimd  of  wheat  starch  pounded  fine;  sift  it  through  a 
fine  sieve,  or  a  piece  of  lace;  add  to  it  eight  drops  of  oil  of  rose,  oil  of  lemon 
thirty  drops,  oil  of  bergamot  fifteen  drops.    Rub  thoroughly  together. 

The  French  throw  this  powder  into  alcohol,  shaking  it,  letting  it  settle,  then 
pouring  off  the  alcohol  and  drying  the  powder.  In  that  case,  the  perfume  is 
added  lastly. 

TO  REMOVE  FRECKLES. 

The  following  lotion  is  highly  recommended:  One  ounce  of  lemon* juice,  a 
quarter  of  a  drachm  of  powdered  borax,  and  half  a  drachm  of  sugar;  mix  in  a 
bottle,  and  allow  them  to  stand  a  few  days,  when  the  hquor  should  be  rubbed 
occasionally  on  the  hands  and  face.  Another  apphcation  is:  Friar's  balsam, 
one  part;  rose  water,  twenty  parts. 

Powdered  nitre  moistened  with  water,  and  appUed  to  the  face  night  and 
morning,  is  said  to  remove  freckles  without  injury  to  the  skin. 

Also,  a  tablespoonful  of  freshly  grated  horse  radish,  stirred  into  a  cupful  of 
sour  milk;  let  it  stand  for  twelve  hours,  then  strain  and  apply  often.  This 
bleaches  the  complexion  also,  and  takes  off  tan. 


484  TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

TO  REMOVE  MOTH  PATCHES. 

Into  a  pint  bottle  of  ram  put  a  tablespoonfol  of  flour  of  sulphnr.    Apply 
to  the  patches  once  a  day,  and  they  will  disappear  in  two  or  three  weeks. 

CURE  FOR  PIMPLES. 

One  teaspoonful  of  carbolic  add  and  one  pint  of  rose-water  mixed  is  an  ex- 
cellent remedy  for  pimples.  Bathe  the  skin  thoroughly  and  often,  but  do  not 
let  the  wash  get  into  the  eyes.  ' 

This  wash  is  soothing  to  mosquito  bites,  and  irritations  of  the  skin  of  every 
nature. 

It  is  advisable,  in  order  to  dear  the  complexion  permanently,  to  deanse  the 
blood;  then  the  wash  would  be  of  advantage. 

To  obtain  a  good  complexion  a  person's  diet  should  receive  the  first  attention. 
Greasy  food,  highly  spiced  soups,  hot  bread  and  butter,  meats  or  game,  rich 
gravies,  alcohoUc  liquors,  coffee — ^aU  are  injurious  to  the  complexion.  Strong 
tea  used  daily  will  after  a  time  give  the  skin  the  color  and  appearance  of 
leather.  Coffee  affects  the  nerves  more,  but  the  skin  less,  and  a  healthy  ner- 
vous system  is  necessary  to  beauty.  Eating  between  meals,  late  suppers,  over- 
eating at  meals,  eating  sweetmeats,  candies,  etc.,  all  these  tend  to  disorder  the 
blood,  producing  pimples  and  blotches. 

Washing  of  the  face  or  skin  is  another  consideration  for  a  good  complexion; 
it  should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  plenty  of  lukewarm  water  with  some  mild 
soap — then  rinsed  in  clear  water  weXl\  dry  with  a  thick  soft  toweL  U  suds  is 
left  or  wiped  off  the  skin^  the  action  of  the  air  and  sun  will  tan  the  surface, 
and  permanently  deface  the  complexion;  therefore  one  should  be  sure  to 
thoroughly  rinse  off  all  soap  from  the  skin  to  avoid  the  tanning,  which  will  leave 
a  brown  or  yellow  tinge  impossible  to  efface. 

PEARL  SMELLING  SALTS. 

Powdered  carbonate  of  ammonia,  one  ounce;  strong  solution  of  ammonia, 
half  a  fluid  ounce;  oil  of  rosemary,  ten  drops;  oil  of  bergamot,  ten  drops.  Mix, 
and  while  moist  put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  which  is  to  be  well-closed. 

PEARL  TOOTH  POWDER. 

Prepared  chalk,  half  a  pound;  powdered  myrrh,  two  ounces;  camphor,  two 
drachms;  orris  root,  powdered,  two  ounces;  moisten  the  camphor  with  alcohol 
and  mix  well  together. 


TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS.  2^85 

REMOVING  TARTAR  FROM  THE  TEETH. 

This  preparation  is  used  by  dentists.  Pure  muriatic  acid,  one  ounce;  water, 
one  ounce;  honey,  two  ounces;  mix  thoroughly.  Take  a  tooth-brush,  and  wet 
it  freely  with  this  preparation,  and  briskly  rub  the  black  teeth,  and  in  a  mo- 
ment's time  they  wiU  be  perfectly  white;  then  immediately  wash  out  the  mouth 
well  with  water,  that  the  acid  may  not  act  on  the  enamel  of  the  teeth.  This 
should  be  done  only  occasionally. 

BAD  BREATH. 

Bad  breath  from  catarrh,  foul  stomach,  or  bad  teeth,  may  be  temporarily  re- 
lieved by  diluting  a  little  bromo  chloralum  with  eight  or  ten  parts  of  water,  and 
using  it  as  a  gargle,  and  swallowing  a  few  drops  before  going  out.  A  pint  of 
bromo  chloralum  costs  fifty  cents,  but  a  small  vial  will  last  a  long  time. 

SHAVING  COMPOUND. 

Half  a  pound  of  plain,  white  soap,  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  alcohol, 
as  little  as  can  be  used;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  borax.  Shave  the 
soap  and  put  it  in  a  small  tin  basin  or  cup;  place  it  on  the  fire  in  a  dish  of  boil- 
ing water;  when  melted,  add  the  alcohol,  and  remove  from  the  fire;  stir  in  oil 
of  bergamot  suf&cient  to  perfume  it. 

BARBER'S  SHAMPOO  MIXTURE. 

Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  carbonate  of  ammonia  and  one  ounce  of  borax  in 
one  quart  of  water;  then  add  two  ounces  of  glycerine  in  three  quarts  of  New 
England  rum,  and  one  quart  of  bay  rum.  Moisten  the  hair  with  this  liquid, 
shampoo  with  the  hands  until  a  light  lather  is  formed;  then  wash  off  with 
plenty  of  clean  water. 

RAZOR-STROP  PASTE. 

Wet  the  strop  with  a  little  sweet  oil,  and  apply  a  little  flour  of  emery  evenly 
over  the  surface. 

CAMPHOR  ICE. 

Melt  together  over  a  water  bath  white  wax  and  spermaceti  each  one  ounce, 
camphor  two  ounces,  in  sweet  almond  oil,  one  pound,  then  triturate  until  the 
mixture  has  become  homogeneous,  and  allow  one  pound  of  rose-water  to  flow 
in  slowly  during  the  operation.     Excellent  for  chapped  lips  or  hands. 

ODORIFEROUS  OR  SWEET-SCENTING  BAGS. 

Lavender  flowers,  one  ounce;  pulverized  orris,  two  drachms;  bruised  rosemary 
leaves,  half  ounce;  musk,  five  grains;  attar  of  rose,  five  drops.  Mix  well,  sew  up 
in  small  fiat  muslin  bags,  and  cover  them  with  fancy  silk  or  satin. 


486  TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

These  are  very  nice  to  keep  in  your  bureau  drawers  or  trunk,  as  the  perfume 
penetrates  through  the  contents  of  the  trunk  or  drawers.  An  acceptable  present 
to  a  single  gentleman. 

HOW  TO  KEEP  BRUSHES  CLEAN. 

The  best  way  in  which  to  clean  hair-brushes  is  with  spirits  of  ammonia,  as 
its  effect  is  immediate.  No  rubbing  is  required,  and  cold  water  can  be  used  just 
as  successfully  as  warm.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  a  quart  of  water, 
dip  the  hair  part  of  the  brush  without  wetting  the  ivory,  and  in  a  moment  the 
grease  is  removed;  then  rinse  in  cold  water,  shake  well,  and  dry  in  the  air,  but 
not  in  the  sun.  Soda  and  soap  soften  the  bristles  and  invariably  turn  the  ivory 
yellow. 

TOILET  ITEMS. 

Mutton  tallow  is  considered  excellent  to  soften  the  hands.  It  may  be  rubbed 
on  at  any  time  when  the  hands  are  perfectly  dry,  but  the  best  time  is  when 
retiring,  and  an  old  pair  of  soft,  large  gloves  thoroughly  covered  on  the  inside 
with  the  tallow  and  glycerine  in  equal  parts,  melted  together,  can  be  worn  dxu:- 
ing  the  night  with  the  most  satisfactory  results. 

Four  parts  of  glycerine  and  five  parts  of  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly  mixed,  and 
applied  after  washing  the  hands,  is  also  considered  excellent. 

For  chapped  hands  or  face:  One  ounce  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  alcohol 
mixed,  then  add  eight  ounces  of  rose-water. 

Another  good  rule  is  to  rub  well  in  dry  oatmeal  after  every  washing,  and  be 
particular  regarding  the  quality  of  soap.  Cheap  soap  and  hard  water  are  the  un- 
known enemies  of  many  people,  and  the  cause  of  rough  skin  and  chapped  hands. 
Castile  soap  and  rain-water  will  sometimes  cure  without  any  other  assistance. 

Csutnphor  ice  is  also  excellent,  and  can  be  applied  with  but  little  incon- 
venience.   Borax  dissolved  and  added  to  the  toilet  water  is  also  good. 

For  chapped  lips,  beeswax  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  sweet  oil,  by  heat- 
ing carefully.  Apply  the  salve  two  or  three  times  a  day,  and  avoid  wetting  the 
lips  as  much  as  possible. 

To  soften  the  hands:  One  can  have  the  hands  in  soap-suds  with  soft  soap 
without  injury  to  the  skin  if  the  hands  are  dipped  in  vinegar  or  lemon- juice  im- 
mediately after.  The  acids  destroy  the  corrosive  effects  of  the  alkali,  and  make 
the  hands  soft  and  white.  Indian  meal  and  vinegar  or  lemon-juice  used  on  hands 
where  roughened  by  cold  or  labor  will  heal  and  soften  them.  Bub  the  hands  in 
this,  then  wash  off  thoroughly  and  rub  in  glycerine.  Those  who  suffer  from 
chapx)ed  hands  wiU  find  this  comforting. 


TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS.  487 

To  remove  stains,  rub  a  slice  of  raw  potato  upon  the  stains;  or  wash  the 
hands  in  lemon-juice  or  steeped  laurel-leaves. 

To  give  a  fine  color  to  the  nails,  the  hands  and  fingers  must  be  well  lathered 
and  washed  with  fine  soap;  then  the  nails  must  be  rubbed  with  equal  parts  of 
cinnebar  and  emery,  followed  by  oil  of  bitter  almonds.  To  take  white  spots  from 
the  nails,  melt  equal  parts  of  pitch  and  turpentine  in  a  small  cup;  add  to  it  vin- 
egar and  powdered  sulphur.  Eub  this  on  the  nails,  and  the  spots  will  soon  dis- 
appear. 

TOILET  SOAP. 

One  pound  of  washing  soda,  one  pound  of  lard  or  clear  taUow,  half  a  pound 
of  unslaked  lime,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  three  quarts  of  water.  Put  the  soda 
and  lime  in  a  large  dish,  and  pour  over  the  water,  boiling  hot;  stir  until  dis- 
solved; let  it  stand  until  clear;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquid,  add  the  grease  and 
salt;  boil  four  hours,  then  pour  into  pans  to  cool.  If  it  should  be  inclined  to  cur- 
dle or  separate,  indicating  the  lime  to  be  too  strong,  pour  in  a  little  more  water, 
and  boil  again.  Perfume  as  you  please,  and  pour  into  molds  or  a  shallow  dish, 
and,  when  cold,  cut  into  bars  to  dry. 

ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS. 

The  following  list  gives  some  of  the  more  common  poisons  and  the  remedies 
most  likely  to  be  on  hand  in  case  of  need: 

Acids: — These  cause  great  heat  and  sensation  of  burning  pain  from  the 
mouth  down  to  the  stomach.  The  remedies  are:  Magnesia,  soda,  pearl  ash,  or 
soap  dissolved  in  water,  every  two  minutes:  then  use  the  stomach  pump,  or  an 
emetic. 

Alkali: — Drink  freely  of  water  with  vinegar  or  lemon-juice  in  it,  made  very 
strong  of  the  sour. 

Ammonia: — Eemedy  is  lemon- juice  or  vinegar. 

Arsenic  Remedies: — Give  prompt  emetic  of  mustard  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful 
of  each,  in  a  coffee  cup  of  warm  water;  then  follow  with  sweet  oil,  butter  made 
warm,  or  milk.  Also  may  use  the  white  of  an  egg  in  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
lime  water.  Chalk  and  water  is  good,  and  the  preparation  of  iron,  ten  drops  in 
water  every  half  hour;  hydrated  magnesia. 

Alcohol: — First  cleanse  out  the  stomach  by  an  emetic,  then  dash  cold  water 
on  the  head,  and  give  ammonia  (spirits  of  hartshorn). 

Lavdanum,  MorphinCy  Opium: — First  give  a  strong  emetic  of  mustard  and 
water,  then  very  strong  coffee  and  acid  drinks;  dash  cold  water  on  the  head, 
then  keep  in  motion. 


488  TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

Bettadanna: — Give  an  emetic  of  mustard,  salt  and  water;  then  drink  plenty 
of  vinegar  and  water  or  lemonade. 

Charcoal.'— In  poisons,  by  carbonic  gas,  remove  the  patient  to  the  open  air, 
dash  cold  water  on  the  head  and  body,  and  stimulate  the  nostrils  and  lungs  with 
hartshorn,  at  the  same  time  rubbing  the  chest  briskly. 

Corrosive  Svblimate^  Saltpetre,  Blue  Vitriol^  Bed-hug  jpowon;— Give  white 
^^  ^S&y  freshly  mixed  with  water,  in  large  quantities;  or  give  wheat  flour  and 
water,  or  soap  and  water  freely,  or  salt  and  water,  or  large  draoghtis  of  milk. 

X^eod;— White  lead  and  sugar  of  lead.  Give  an  emetic,  then  follow  with 
cathartics,  such  as  castor  oil,  and  epsom  salts  especially. 

Nux  Fowiica;— First  emetics,  and  then  brandy. 

Oxalic  Acid  (frequently  taken  for  epsom  salts):  First  give  soap  and  water, 
or  chalk  or  magnesia  and  water.    Give  every  two  minutes. 

White  Vitriol:— Qive  plenty  of  milk  and  water. 

Tartar  Emetic:— Take  large  doses  of  tea  made  of  white  oak  bark,  or  peruvian 
bark.  Drink  plenty  of  warm  water  to  encourage  vomiting;  then,  if  the  vomit- 
ing should  not  stop,  give  a  grain  of  opium  in  water. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (lunar  caustic): — Give  a  strong  solution  of  common  salt  and 
water,  and  then  an  emetic. 

Verdigris.'—Otive  plenty  of  white  of  egg  and  water. 

To&acco>— Emetics,  frequent  draughts  of  cold  water;  camphor  and  brandy. 


jftencb  Morbs  in  (Tooking^ 

Aspic: — Savory  jelly  for  cold  dishes. 

Au  gratin: — Dishes  prepared  with  sauce  and  crumbs  and  baked. 

Bouchies: — Very  thin  patties  or  cakes,  as  name  indicates — ^mouthfuls. 

Baba:—A  peculiar,  sweet  French  yeast  cake. 

Bechamel: — A  rich,  white  sauce  made  with  stock. 

Bisque: — ^A  white  soup  madid  of  shell  fish. 

To  Blanch:— To  place  any  article  on  the  fire  tiU  it  boils,  then  plunge  it  in  cold 
water;  to  whiten  poultry,  vegetables,  etc.  To  remove  the  skin  by  immersing  in 
boiling  water. 

Bouillon:— A  clear  soup,  stronger  than  broth,  yet  not  so  strong  as  consomm^^ 
which  is  '^  rediKed  *'  soup 

JSrais^;— Meat  cooked  in  a  closely  covered  stew-pan,  so  that  it  retains  its  own 
flavor  and  those  of  the  vegetables  and  flavorings  put  with  it. 

Brioche: — A  very  rich,  unsweetened,  French  cake  made  with  yeast. 

CanweZon;— Stuffed  roUed-up  meat. 

Consomm4: — Clear  soup  or  bouillon  bofled  down  till  very  rich,  i.  e.  consumed. 

Croquettes: — A  savory  mince  of  flsh  or  fowl,  made  with  sauce  into  shapes, 
and  fried. 

Croustades: — Fried  forms  of  bread  to  serve  minces,  or  other  meats  upon. 

Entrie: — ^A  small  dish,  usually  served  between  the  coiu'ses  at  dinner. 

Fondue: — A  light  preparation  of  melted  cheese. 

J?bn(2an<;— Sugar  boiled,  and  beaten  to  a  creamy  paste. 

Hollandaise  Sauce: — A  rich  sauce,  something  like  hot  mayonnaise. 

Matelote: — A  rich  fish  stew,  with  wine. 

Mayonnaise:— A  rich  salad  dressing. 

Meringue: — Sugar  and  white  of  egg  beaten  to  sauce. 

Marmade:—A  Uquor  of  spices^  vinegar,  etc.  in  which  fish  or  meats  are 
steeped  before  cooking. 


490 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Mirotont — Cold  meat  wanned  in  yarious  ways,  and  dished  in  ciiCDlar  fonn. 

i^r^;— This  name  is  given  to  very  thick  soups,  the  ingredients  for  thicken- 
ing which  have  been  nibbed  through  a  sieve. 

Poulette  Sauce:— A.  bechamel  sauce,  to  which  white  wine,  and  sometinies 
eggs  are  added. 

Bagoiii:—A  rich,  brown  stew,  with  mushrooms,  vegetables,  etc. 

Piquante: — ^A  sauce  of  several  flavors,  acid  predominating. 

Quenelles: — ^Forcemeat  with  bread,  yolk  of  eggs,  highly  seasoned,  and  formed 
with  a  spoon  to  an  oval  shape;  then  poached  and  used  either  as  a  dish  by  them- 
selves, or  to  garnish. 

Bemovlade: — ^A  salad  dressing  differing  from  mayonnaise,  in  that  the  ^gs 
are  hard  boiled  and  rubbed  in  a  mortar  with  mustard,  herbs,  etc. 

Rissole: — ^Bich  mince  of  meat  or  fish,  rolled  in  thin  pastry  and  fried. 

Itoux:-^K  cooked  mixture  of  butter  and  flour,  for  thickening  soups  and  stews. 

Salmi: — ^A  rich  stew  of  game,  cut  up  and  dressed,  when  half  roasted. 

Sauter: — To  toss  meat,  etc.,  over  the  fire,  in  a  little  fat. 

Souffle: — A  very  hght,  much  whipped-up  pudding  or  omelette. 

Timhale: — ^A  sort  of  pie  in  a  mold. 

Vol  au  vents: — Patties  of  very  hght  puff  paste,  made  without  a  dish  or  mdd, 

and  filled  with  meat  or  preserves,  etc. 

— OcUAerine  Owen,  in  Oood  Housekeeping. 


Etticles  IRequiteb  tot  tbe  ftitcben. 


The  following  list  will  show  what  articles  are  necessary  for  the  kitchen,  and 
will  be  quite  an  aid  to  young  hoi||^keepers  when  about  commencing  to  furnish 
the  utensils  needed  in  the  kitchen  department,  and  may  prove  useful  to  many. 


2  Sweeping  brooms  and  1  dust-pan. 
1  Whisk  broom 

1  Bread  box. 

2  Cake  boxes. 

1  Large  flour  box. 

1  Dredging  box. 

1  Large-sized  tin  pepper  box. 

1  Spice  box  containing  smaller  spice  boxes. 

2  Cake  pans,  two  sizes. 
4  Bread  pans. 

2  Square  biscuit  pans. 


1  Apple  corer. 

1  Lemon  squeezer. 

1  Meat  cleaver. 

3  Eatchen  knives  and  forks. 

1  Large  kitchen  fork  and  4  kitchen  spoons^ 

two  sizes. 
1  Wooden  spoon  for  cake  making. 
1  Large  bread  knife. 
1  Griddle  cake  turner,  also  1  griddlOt 
1  Potato  masher. 
1  Meat  board. 


MISCELLANEO  US. 


491 


1  Dozon  patty  pans>  and  the  same  number 
of  tartlet  pans. 

1  Large  tin  pail  and  1  wooden  paiL 

2  Small  tin  pails. 

1  Set  of  tin  basins. 
1  Set  of  tin  measores. 
1  Wooden  batter  ladle. 
1  Tin  skimmer. 

1  Tin  steamer. 

2  Dippers,  two  sizes. 

2  FnnnelSy  two  sizes. 

1  Set  of  jelly  cake  tins. 
4  Pie  pans. 

3  Padding  molds,  one  for  boiling,  two  for 

baking,  two  sizes. 

2  Dish  pans,  two  sizes. 

2  Cake  or  biscoit  catters,  two  sizes. 

2  Graters,  one  large  and  one  smalL 

1  Ooff ee  canister. 

1  Tea  canister. 

1  Tin  or  granite-ware  teapot. 

1  Tin  or  granite-ware  cofFee-pot. 

1  Griddle  cake  tamer. 

4  Milk  pans,  1  milk  strainer. 

1  Dozen  iron  gem  pans  or  muffin  rings. 
1  Coarse  gravy  strainer,  1  fine  strainer. 
1  Colander. 

1  Floar  sifter. 

2  Scoops,  one  for  floar,  one  for  sagar. 
2  Jelly  molds,  two  sizes. 

1  Can  opener,  1  egg  beater. 
1  Cork  screw. 

1  Chopping-knif e. 

2  Wooden  chopping  bowls,  two  sizes. 


1  Meat  saw. 

2  Large  earthen  bowls. 
4  Stone  jars. 

1  Coffee  milL 

1  Candlestick. 

2  Market  baskets,  two  sizes. 
1  Clock. 

1  Ash  backet. 

1  Gridiron. 

2  Frying  pans  or  spiders,  two  sizes. 

4  Flat-irons,  2  number  8  and  2  namber  6. 

2  Dripping  pans,  two  sizes. 

3  Lron  kettles,  porcelain  lined  if  possible. 
1  Com  beef  or  fish  kettle. 

1  Tea  kettle. 

2  Granite- ware  stew  pans,  two  sizes. 
1  Wire  toaster. 

1  Doable  kettle  for  cooking  castards,  grains, 

etc. 

2  Sugar  boxes,  one  for  coarse  and  one  for 

fine  sagar. 
1  Waffle  iron. 
1  Step  ladder. 
1  Stoye,  1  coal  shoveL 

1  Pair  of  scales. 

2  Coal  hods  or  backets. 

1  Kitchen  table,  2  kitchen  chairs. 

1  Large  clothes  basket. 

1  Wash  boiler,  1  wash  board* 

8  Dozen  clothes  pins. 

1  Large  nail  hammer  and  one  smaU  tack 

hammer. 
1  Bean  pot. 
1  Clothes  wringer. 


An  ingenioiis  hoiisewif  e  will  manage  to  do  with  less  conveniences,  but  these 
articles,  if  they  can  be  purchased  in  the  commencement  of  housekeeping,  will 
8ave  time  and  labor,  making  the  preparation  of  food  more  easily — and  it  is  al- 
ways economy  in  the  end  to  get  the  best  material  in  all  wares — ^as,  for  instance, 
the  double  plate  tin  will  last  for  years,  whereas  the  poor  kind  has  to  be  replaced 
in  a  short  time;  the  low-priced  earthenware  is  soon  broken  up,  whereas  the 
strong  stone  ware,  costing  but  a  trifle  more,  lasts  almost  a  lifetime. 

In  relation  to  the  economy  and  management  of  the  kitchen,  I  might  suggest 
that  the  most  essential  thing  is  cleanliness  in  cooking,  and  also  cleanliness  with 
your  person  as  well  as  in  the  keeping  of  the  kitchen. 


492  MISCELLANEOUS. 

The  hands  of  the  cook  should  be  always  thoroughly  deansed  before  touching 
or  handling  anything  pertaining  to  the  cooking.  Next  there  should  never  be  any 
wasted  or  thrown  away  that  can  be  turned  to  account^  either  for  your  own  fam- 
ily or  some  family  in  poor  circumstances.  Bread  that  has  become  hard  can 
be  used  for  toasting,  or  for  stufi&ng  and  pudding.  In  warm  weather  any 
gravies  or  soups  that  are  left  from  the  preceding  day  should  be  boiled  up  and 
poured  into  clean  pans.  This  is  particularly  necessary  where  vegetables  have 
been  added  to  the  preparation,  as  it  then  so  soon  turns  sour.  In  cooler  weather^ 
every  other  day  will  be  often  enough  to  warm  up  these  things. 

In  cooking,  clear  as  you  go;  that  is  to  say,  do  not  allow  a  host  of  basins, 
plates,  spoons,  and  other  utensils,  to  accumulate  oa  the  dressers  and  tables  whilst 
you  are  engaged  in  preparing  the  dinner.  By  a  Uttle  management  and  fore- 
thought, much  confusion  may  be  saved  in  this  way.  It  is  as  easy  to  put  a  thing 
in  its  place  when  it  is  done  with,  as  it  is  to  keep  continually  moving  it  to  find 
room  for  fresh  requisites.  For  instance,  after  making  a  pudding,  the  flour-tub, 
paste-board,  and  rolling-pin,  should  be  put  away,  and  any  basins,  spoons,  etc., 
should  be  neatly  packed  up  near  the  sink,  to  be  washed  when  the  proper  time 
arrives.    Neatness,  order,  and  method  should  be  always  observed. 

Never  let  your  stock  of  spices,  salt,  seasonings,  herbs,  etc.,  dwindle  down  so 
low  that  some  day,  in  the  midst  of  preparing  a  large  dinner,  you  find  yourself 
minus  a  very  important  ingredient,  thereby  causing  much  confusion  and  annoy- 
ance. 

After  you  have  washed  your  sauce-pans,  fish-kettle,  etc.,  stand  them  before 
the  fire  for  a  few*  minutes  to  get  thoroughly  dry  inside,  before  putting  them 
away.  They  should  then  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  order  that  they  may  escape 
the  deteriorating  influence  of  rust,  and  thereby  be  quickly  destroyed.  Never 
leave  sauce-pans  dirty  from,  one  day's  use  to  be  cleaned  the  next;  it  is  slovenly 
and  untidy. 

Do  not  be  afraid  of  hot  water  in  washing  up  dishes  and  dirty  cooking  uten- 
sils. As  these  are  essentially  greasy,  lukewarm  water  cannot  possibly  have  the 
effect  of  cleansing  them  effectually.  Do  not  be  chary  also  of  changing  ajid  re- 
newing the  water  occasionally.  You  will  thus  save  yourself  much  time  and 
labor  in  the  long  run. 

Keep  a  cake  of  sapolio  always  on  hand  in  the  kitchen— always  convenient  for 
rubbing  off  stains,  from  earthenware,  tin,  glass,  in  fact,  almost  every  thing  but 
silver;  it  is  a  cheap  and  valuable  article,  and  can  be  purchased  at  nearly  every 
grocery  in  the  United  States. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  493 


D^eina  ot  Colorina. 


GENERAL  REMARK& 

Everything  should  be  clean.  The  goods  should  be  scoured  in  soap  and  the 
soap  rinsed  out.  They  are  often  steeped  in  soap  lye  over  night.  Dip  them  into 
water  just  before  putting  them  into  preparations,  to  prevent  spotting.  Soft 
water  should  be  used,  sufficient  to  cover  the  goods  well;  this  is  always  under- 
stood where  quantity  is  not  mentioned.  When  goods  are  dyed,  air  them;  then 
rinse  well,  and  hang  up  to  dry.  Do  not  wring  silk  or  merino  dresses  when 
scouring  or  dyeing  them.  If  cotton  goods  are  to  be  dyed  a  light  color,  they 
should  first  be  bleached. 

SILKS. 

Black: — Make  a  weak  lye  as  for  black  or  woolens;  work  goods  in  bichromate 
of  potash  a  little  below  boihng  heat,  then  dip  in  the  logwood  in  the  same  way; 
if  colored  in  blue  vitriol  dye,  use  about  the  same  heat. 

Orange: — For  one  pound  goods,  annotto,  one  pound;  soda,  one  poimd;  repeat 
as  desired. 

Oreen: — Very  Handsome:— For  one  pound  goods,  yellow  oak  bark,  eight 
ounces;  boil  one-half  hour;  turn  off  the  liquor  from  bark  and  add  alum,  six 
ounces;  let  it  stand  until  cold;  while  making  this,  color  goods  in  blue  dye- tub  a 
light  blue;  dry  and  wash;  dip  in  alum  and  bark  dye.  If  it  does  not  take  well, 
warm  the  dye  a  little. 

Purple: — For  one  pound  goods.  First  obtain  a  light  blue,  by  dipping  in  home- 
made dye-tub;  then  dry;  dip  in  alum,  four  ounces;  with  water  to  cover,  when 
httle  warm.    If  color  is  not  fuU  enough  add  chemic. 

Yellow:— For  one  pound  goods,  alum,  three  ounces;  sugar  of  lead,  three- 
fourths  ounce;  immerse  goods  in  solution  over  night;  take  out;  drain,  and  make 
a  new  lye  with  fustic,  one  pound;  dip  until  the  required  color  is  obtained. 

Crimson:— For  one  pound  goods — alum,  three  ounces;  dip  at  hand  heat  one 
hour;  take  out  and  drain  while  making  new  dye  by  boiling  ten  minutes,  cochi- 
neal, three  ounces;  bruised  nutgalls,  two  ounces;  and  cream- tartar,  one-fourth 
ounce,  in  one  pail  of  water;  when  Uttle  cool,  begin  to  dip,  raising  heat  to  boil; 
dip  one  hour;  wash  and  dry. 

Sky  Blue  on  Silk  or  Cotton:— Very  Beautiful:— Oive  goods  as  much  color 
from  a  solution  of  blue  vitriol,  two  ounces,  to  water,  one  gallon,  as  it  will  take 
up  in  dipping  fifteen  minutes;  then  run  it  through  lime  water.  This  will  make 
a  beautiful  and  durable  sky  blue. 


494  MISCELLANEOUS. 

Brown  on  Silk  or  Cotton: — Very  Beautiful:— Afb&r  obtaining  a  blue  color  as 
above^  run  goods  through  a  solution  of  prussiate  of  potash,  one  ounce,  to  water, 
one  gallon. 

Light  Blue:— For  cold  water,  one  gallon,  dissolve  alum,  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful,  in  hot  water,  one  teacupful^  and  add  to  it;  then  add  chemic,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  at  a  time  to  obtain  the  desired  color— the  more  chemic  the  darker  the  color. 

r 

WOOLEN  GOODS. 

Chrome  Black: — Best  in  Use: — For  five  pounds  of  goods,  blue  vitriol  six 
ounces;  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  dip  the  goods  three-fomiihs  of  an  hour,  airing 
often;  take  out  the  goods,  make  a  dye  with  three  pounds  of  logwood,  boil  one- 
half  hour;  dip  three -fottrths  of  an  hour,  and  air  goods,  and  dip  three-fourths  of 
an  hour  more.     Wash  in  strong  suds.    Tlus  will  not  fade  by  exposure  to  sun. 

Wine  Color: — For  five  pounds  of  goods,  camwood,  two  pounds;  boil  fifteen 
minutes  and  dip  the  goods  one-half  hour;  boil  again  and  dip  one-half  hour;  then 
darken  with  blue  vitriol,  one  and  one-half  oxmces;  if  not  dark  enough,  add  cop- 
peras, one-half  ounce. 

Scarlet: — Very  Fine: — For  one  pound  of  goods,  cream  tartar  one-half  ounce; 
cochineal, well-pulverized,  one-half  ounce;  muriate  of  tin,tv(ro  and  one-half  ounces; 
boil  up  the  dye  and  enter  the  goods;  work  them  briskly  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  boil  one  and  one-half  hours,  stirring  goods  slowly  while  boiling. 
Wash  in  clear  water  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

Pink.'— For  three  pounds  of  goods,  alum  three  oimces;  boil  and  dip  the  goods 
one  hour,  then  add  to  the  dyfe,  cream- tartar,  four  ounces;  cochineal,  well-pul- 
verized, one  ounce;  boil  well  and  dip  the  goods  while  boiling  until  the  color 
suits. 

Blue: — Quick  Process: — For  two  pounds  of  goods,  alum,  five  ounces;  cream- 
tartar,  three  oimces;  boil  goods  in  this  one  hour,  then  put  goods  into  warm  water 
which  has  more  or  less  extract  of  indigo  in  it,  according  to  the  depth  of  color  de- 
sired, and  boil  again  until  it  suits,  adding  more  of  the  blue  if  needed. 

Madder  Bed:— To  each  pound  of  goods,  alum,  five  ounces;  red,  or  cream- 
tartar,  one  ounce.  Pufc  in  the  goods  and  bring  the  kettle  to  a  boil,  for  one-half 
hour;  then  air  them  and  boil  one-half  hour  longer;  empty  the  kettle  and  fill  with 
dean  water;  put  in  bran,  one  peck;  make  it  milk-warm,  and  let  it  stand  until 
the  bran  rises;  then  skim  off  the  bran  and  put  in  one-half  poimd  madder;  put  in 
the  goods  and  heat  slowly  until  it  boils  and  is  done.    Wash  in  strong  suds. 

Cfreen: — For  each  poimd  of  goods,  fustic,  one  poimd;  with  alum,  three  and 
one-half  ounces;  steep  until  strength  is  out,  and  soak  the  goods  therein  until  a 


MISCELLANEOUS.  495 

good  yellow  is  Obtained;  then  remove  the  chips,  and  add  extract  of  indigo  or 
chemic,  one  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  until  color  suits. 

Snuff  Broum,  Dark:— For  five  pounds  of  goods,  camwood,  one  pound;  boil  it 
fifteen  minutes,  then  dip  the  goods  three-fourths  of  an  horn:;  take  out  the  goods, 
and  add  to  the  dye  two  and  one-half  pounds  fustic;  boil  ten  minutes,  and  dip 
the  goods  three-fourths  of  an  homr;  then  add  blue  vitriol,  one  ounce;  copperas, 
four  ounces;  dip  agam  one-half  hour.    If  not  dark  enough,  add  more  copperas. 

Another  Method:— Any  Shxide:—Boil  the  goods  in  a  mordant  of  almn,  two 
parts,  copperas  three  parts;  then  rinse  them  through  a  bath  of  madder.  The 
tint  depends  on  the  relative  proportions  of  the  copperas  and  alum;  the  more  cop- 
peras, the  darker  the  dye;  joint  weight  of  both  should  not  be  more  than  one- 
eighth  of  weight  of  goods.  Mixtures  of  red  and  yellows  with  blues  and  blacks, 
or  simple  dyes,  will  make  any  shade. 

Orange: — For  five  poxmds  of  goods,  muriate  of  tin,  six  tablespoonfuls;  argal, 
four  ounces;  boil  and  dip  one  hour,  and  add  again  to  the  dye  one  teacupful  of 
madder;  dip  again  one-half  hour.  Cochineal,  about  two  ounces,  in  place  of  mad- 
der, makes  a  much  brighter  color. 

Purple:— For  each  pound  of  goods,  two  ounces  of  cudbear;  rinse  the  goods 
well  in  soap-suds,  then  dissolve  cudbear  in  hot  suds — not  quite  boiling,  and  soak 
the  goods  until  of  required  color.  The  color  is  brightened  by  rinsing  in  alum 
water. 

Yellow: — Rich: — Work  five  pounds  of  goods  one-half  hour  in  a  boiling  bath 
with  three  ounces  bichromate  of  potassa  and  two  ounces  alum;  hft  and  expose 
till  well-cooled  and  drained;  then  work  one-half  hour  in  another  bath  with  five 
pounds  of  fustic.    Wash  out  and  dry. 

Crimson: — Work  for  one  hour  in  a  bath  with  one  pound  cochineal  paste; 
six  ounces  of  dry  cochineal;  one  pound  of  tartar;  one  pint  of  protochloride  of  tin* 
Wash  out  and  dry. 

Salmon: — For  each  i)ound  of  goods,  one-fourth  pound  of  annatto;  one-fourth 
pound  of  soap;  rinse  the  goods  well  in  warm  water,  put  them  into  mixture  and 
boil  one-half  hour.    Shade  will  be  according  to  the  amoimt  of  annatto. 

Dove  and  Slate  Colors  of  all  Shades: — Boil  in  an  iron  vessel  a  teacupful  of 
black  tea  with  a  teaspoonful  of  copperas,  and  sufl&dent  water.  Dilute  tiU  you 
get  the  shade  wanted. 

COTTON  GOODS. 

Black:— For  five  pounds  of  goods,  boil  them  in  a  decoction  of  three  pounds 
of  sumach  one-half  hour,  and  steep  twelve  hotirs;  dip  in  lime-water  one-half 
hour;  take  out  and  let  them  drip  one  hour,  run  them  through  the  lime-water 


486  TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

These  are  very  nice  to  keep  in  your  bureau  drawers  or  trunk,  as  the  perfume 
penetrates  through  the  contents  of  the  trunk  or  drawers.  An  acceptable  present 
to  a  single  gentleman. 

HOW  TO  KEEP  BRUSHES  CLEAN. 

The  best  way  in  which  to  clean  hair-brushes  is  with  spirits  of  amononia^  as 
its  effect  is  iinmediate.  No  rubbing  is  required,  and  cold  water  can  be  used  just 
as  successfully  as  warm.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  a  quart  of  water, 
dip  the  hair  part  of  the  brush  without  wetting  the  ivory,  and  in  a  moment  the 
grease  is  removed;  then  rinse  in  cold  water,  shake  well,  and  dry  in  the  air,  but 
not  in  the  sun.  Soda  and  soap  soften  the  bristles  and  invariably  turn  the  ivory 
yellow. 

TOILET  ITEMS. 

Mutton  taUow  is  considered  excellent  to  soften  the  hands.  It  may  be  rubbed 
on  at  any  time  when  the  hands  are  perfectly  dry,  but  the  best  time  is  when 
retiring,  and  an  old  pair  of  soft,  large  gloves  thoroughly  covered  on  the  inside 
with  the  tallow  and  glycerine  in  equal  parts,  melted  together,  can  be  worn  dur- 
ing the  night  with  the  most  satisfactory  results. 

Four  parts  of  glycerine  and  five  parts  of  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly  mixed,  and 
applied  after  washing  the  hands,  is  also  considered  excellent. 

For  chapped  hands  or  face:  One  ounce  of  glycerine,  one  oimce  of  alcohol 
mixed,  then  add  eight  ounces  of  rose-water. 

Another  good  rule  is  to  rub  well  in  dry  oatmeal  after  every  washing,  and  be 
particular  regarding  the  quality  of  soap.  Cheap  soap  and  hard  water  are  the  un- 
known enemies  of  many  people,  and  the  cause  of  rough  skin  and  chapped  hands. 
Castile  soap  and  rain-water  will  sometimes  cure  without  any  other  assistance. 

Camphor  ice  is  also  excellent,  and  can  be  applied  with  but  little  incon- 
venience.    Borax  dissolved  and  added  to  the  toilet  water  is  also  good. 

For  chapped  lips,  beeswax  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  sweet  oil,  by  heat- 
ing carefully.  Apply  the  salve  two  or  three  times  a  day,  and  avoid  wetting  the 
lips  as  much  as  possible. 

To  soften  the  hands:  One  can  have  the  hands  in  soap-suds  with  soft  soap 
without  injury  to  the  skin  if  the  hands  are  dipped  in  vinegar  or  lemon- juice  im- 
mediately after.  The  acids  destroy  the  corrosive  effects  of  the  alkali,  and  make 
the  hands  soft  and  white.  Indian  meal  and  vinegar  or  lemon-juice  used  on  hands 
where  roughened  by  cold  or  labor  will  heal  and  soften  them.  Rub  the  hands  in 
this,  then  wash  off  thoroughly  and  rub  in  glycerine.  Those  who  suffer  from 
chapped  hands  wiU  find  this  comforting. 


TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS.  487 

To  remove  stains,  rub  a  slice  of  raw  potato  upon  the  stains;  or  wash  the 
hands  in  lemon-juice  or  steeped  laurel-leaves. 

To  give  a  fine  color  to  the  nails,  the  hands  and  fingers  must  be  well  lathered 
and  washed  with  fine  soap;  then  the  nails  must  be  rubbed  with  equal  parts  of 
cinnebar  and  emery,  followed  by  oil  of  bitter  almonds.  To  take  white  spots  from 
the  nails,  melt  equal  parts  of  pitch  and  turpentine  in  a  small  cup;  add  to  it  vin- 
egar and  powdered  sulphur.  Bub  this  on  the  nails,  and  the  spots  will  soon  dis- 
appear. 

TOILET  SOAP. 

One  pound  of  washing  soda,  one  pound  of  lard  or  clear  tallow,  half  a  pound 
of  unslaked  lime,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  three  quarts  of  water.  Put  the  soda 
and  hme  in  a  large  dish,  and  pour  over  the  water,  boiling  hot;  stir  \uitil  dis- 
solved; let  it  stand  until  clear;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquid,  add  the  grease  and 
salt;  boil  four  hours,  then  pour  into  pans  to  cool.  If  it  should  be  inclined  to  c\ir- 
dle  or  separate,  indicating  the  lime  to  be  too  strong,  pour  in  a  little  more  water, 
and  boil  again.  Perfume  as  you  please,  and  pomr  into  molds  or  a  shallow  dish, 
and,  when  cold,  cut  into  bars  to  dry. 

ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS. 

The  following  list  gives  some  of  the  more  common  poisons  and  the  remedies 
most  likely  to  be  on  hand  in  case  of  need: 

Acids: — These  cause  gi'eat  heat  and  sensation  of  burning  pain  from  the 
mouth  down  to  the  stomach.  The  remedies  are:  Magnesia,  soda,  pearl  ash,  or 
soap  dissolved  in  water,  every  two  minutes:  then  use  the  stomach  pump,  or  an 
emetic. 

Alkali: — Drink  freely  of  water  with  vinegar  or  lemon- juice  in  it,  made  very 
strong  of  the  sour. 

Ammonia: — Eemedy  is  lemon- juice  or  vinegar. 

Arsenic  ReToedies: — Give  prompt  emetic  of  mustard  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful 
of  each,  in  a  coffee  cup  of  warm  water;  then  follow  with  sweet  oil,  butter  made 
warm,  or  milk.  Also  may  use  the  white  of  an  egg  in  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
lime  water.  Chalk  and  water  is  good,  and  the  preparation  of  iron,  ten  drops  in 
water  every  half  hour;  hydrated  magnesia. 

Alcohol:— "Fir^i  cleanse  out  the  stomach  by  an  emetic,  then  dash  cold  water 
on  the  head,  and  give  ammonia  (spirits  of  hartshorn). 

LaudanuMy  MorphinCy  Opium: — First  give  a  strong  emetic  of  mustard  and 
water,  then  very  strong  coffee  and  acid  drinks;  dash  cold  water  on  the  head, 
then  keep  in  motion. 


498  MISCELLANEOUS. 

altogether  pleasant,  and  it  is  better  to  cut  it,  a  bit  at  a  time,  after  buttering  it^ 
and  put  piece  by  piece  in  the  mouth  with  one's  finger  and  thumb.  Never  help 
yourself  to  butter,  or  any  other  food  with  your  own  knife  or  fork.  It  is  not  con- 
sidered good  taste  to  mix  food  on  the  same  plate.  Salt  must  be  left  on  the  side 
of  the  plate  and  never  on  the  table-doth. 

Let  us  mention  a  few  things  concerning  the  eating  of  which  there  is  some- 
times doubt.'  A  cream-cake  and  anything  of  similar  nature  should  be  eaten 
with  knife  and  fork,  never  bitten.  Asparagus — ^which  should  be  always  served 
on  bread  or  toast,  so  as  to  absorb  superfluous  moisture — may  be  taken  from  the 
finger  and  thumb;  if  it  is  fit  to  be  set  before  you,  the  whole  of  it  may  be  eaten. 
Pastry  should  be  broken  and  eaten  with  a  fork,  never  cut  with  a  knife.  Eaw 
oysters  should  be  eaten  with  a  fork,  also  fish.  Peas  emd  beans,  as  we  all  know, 
require  the  fork  only;  however,  food  that  cannot  be  held  with  a  fork  should  be 
eaten  with  a  spoon.  Potatoes,  if  mashed,  shoTild  be  mashed  with  the  fork. 
Green  com  should  be  eaten  from  the  cob;  but  it  must  be  held  with  a  single 
hand. 

Celery,  cresses,  oUves,  radishes,  and  relishes  of  that  kind  are,  of  course,  to 
be  eaten  with  the  fingers;  the  salt  should  be  laid  upon  one's  plate,  not  upon  the 
cloth.  Fish  is  to  be  eaten  with  the  fork,  without  the  assistance  of  the  knife;  a 
bit  of  bread  in  the  left  hand  sometimes  helps  one  to  master  a  refractory  morsel. 
Fresh  fruit  should  be  eaten  with  a  silver  bladed-knif e,  especially  pears,  apples, 
etc. 

Berries,  of  course,  are  to  be  eaten  with  a  spoon.  In  England  they  are  served 
with  their  hulls  on,  and  three  or  four  are  considered  an  ample  quantity.  But 
then  in  England  they  are  many  times  the  size  of  ours;  there  they  take  the  big 
berry  by  the  stem,  dip  into  powdered  sugar,  and  eat  it  as  we  do  the  turnip  rad- 
ish. It  is  not  proper  to  drink  with  a  spoon  in  the  cup;  nor  should  one,  by-the- 
way,  ever  quite  drain  a  cup  or  glass. 

Don't,  when  you  drink,  elevate  your  glass  as  if  you  were  going  to  stana  it 
inverted  on  your  nose.  Bring  the  glass  perpendicularly  to  the  Ups,  and  then  lift 
it  to  a  sUght  angle.    Do  this  easily. 

Drink  sparingly  while  eating.  It  is  far  better  for  the  digestion  not  to  drink 
tea  or  coffee  until  the  meal  is  finished.  Drink  gently,  and  do  not  pour  it  down 
yOur  throat  like  water  turned  out  of  a  pitcher. 

When  seating  yom^self  at  the  table,  unfold  your  napkin  and  lay  it  across  your 
lap  in  such  a  manner  that  it  wiU  not  sUde  off  upon  the  floor;  a  gentleman  should 
place  it  across  his  right  knee.  Do  not  tuck  it  into  your  neck,  like  a  child's  bib. 
For  an  old  person,  however,  it  is  well  to  attach  the  napkin  to  a  napkin  hook  and 


MISCELLANEOUS.  499 

slip  it  into  the  vest  or  dress  buttonholes,  to  protect  their  garments,  or  sew  a 
broad  tape  at  two  places  on  the  napkin,  and  pass  it  over  the  head.  When  the 
soup  is  eaten,  wipe  the  mouth  carefully  with  the  napkin,  and  use  it  to  wipe  the 
hands  after  meals.  Finger  bowls  are  not  a  general  institution,  and  yet  they 
seem  to  be  quite  as  needful  as  the  napkin,  for  the  fingers  are  also  liable  to  be- 
come a  little  soiled  in  eating.  They  can  be  had  quite  cheaply,  and  should  be 
half -filled  with  water,  and  placed  upon  the  side  table  or  butler's  tray,  with  the 
dessert,  bread  and  cheese,  etc.  They  are  passed  to  each  person  half -filled  with 
water,  placed  on  a  parti-colored  napkin  with  a  dessert  plate  underneath,  when 
the  dessert  is  placed  upon  the  table.  A  leaf  or  two  of  sweet  verbena,  an  orange 
flower,  or  a  small  slice  of  lemon,  is  usually  put  into  each  bowl  to  rub  upon  the 
fingers.  The  sUce  of  lemon  is  most  commonly  used.  The  finger  tips  are  slightly 
dipped  into  the  bowl,  the  lemon  juice  is  squeezed  upon  them,  and  then  they  are 
dried  softly  upon  the  napkin.  At  dinner  parties  and  limcheons  they  are  indis- 
pensable. 

Spoons  are  sometimes  used  with  firm  puddings,  but  forks  are  the  better  style. 
A  spoon  should  never  be  turned  over  in  the  inouth. 

Ladies  have  frequently  an  affected  way  of  holding  the  knife  half-way  down 
its  length,  as  if  it  were  too  big  for  their  little  hands;  but  this  is  as  awkward  a 
way  as  it  is  weak;  the  knife  should  be  grasped  freely  by  the  handle  only,  the 
fore-finger  being  the  only  one  to  touch  the  blade,  and  that  only  along  the  back 
of  the  blade  at  its  root,  and  no  further  down. 

At  the  conclusion  of  a  course,  where  they  have  been  used,  knife  and  fork 
should  be  laid  side  by  side  across  the  middle  of  the  plate — ^never  crossed;  the  old 
custom  of  crossing  them  was  in  obedience  to  an  ancient  religious  formula.  The 
servant  should  offer  everything  at  the  left  of  the  guest,  that  the  guest  may  be 
at  Uberty  to  use  the  right  hand.  If  one  has  been  given  a  napkin  ring,  it  is  nec- 
essary to  fold  one's  napkin  and  use  the  ring;  otherwise  the  napkin  should  be 
left  unfolded.  One's  teeth  are  not  to  be  picked  at  table;  but  if  it  is  impossible 
to  hinder  it,  it  should  be  done  behind  the  napkin.  One  may  pick  a  bone  at  the 
table,  but,  as  with  com,  only  one  hand  is  allowed  to  touch  it;  yet  one  can  usually 
get  enough  from  it  with  knife  and  fork,  which  is  certainly  the  more  elegant  way 
of  doing;  and  to  take  her  teeth  to  it  gives  a  lady  the  look  of  caring  a  little  too 
much  for  the  pleasures  of  the  table;  one  is,  however,  on  no  account  to  suck  one's 
finger  after  it. 

Wherever  there  is  any  doubt  as  to  the  best  way  to  do  a  thing,  it  is  wise  to 
follow  that  which  is  the  most  rational,  and  that  will  almost  invariably  be  found 
to  be  proper  etiquette.    To  be  at  ease  is  a  great  step  towards  enjoying  your  own 


500  MISCELLANEOUS. 

dinner;  and  making  yourself  agreeable  to  the  company.  There  is  a  reason  for 
everything  in  polite  usage;  thus  the  reason  why  one  does  not  blow  a  thing  to 
cool  it,  is  not  only  that  it  is  an  inelegant  and  vulgar  action  intrinsically,  but  be- 
cause it  may  be  offensive  to  others — can  not  help  being  so,  indeed;  and  it, 
moreover  implies  haste,  which,  whether  from  greediness  or  a  desire  to  get  away, 
is  equally  objectionable.  Everything  else  may  be  as  easily  traced  to  its  origin 
in  the  fit  and  becoming. 

If,  to  conclude,  one  seats  one's  self  properly  at  table,  and  takes  reason  into 
account,  one  will  do  tolerably  well.  One  must  not  pull  one's  chair  too  closely 
to  the  table,  for  the  natural  result  of  that  is  the  inability  to  use  one's  knife  and 
fork  without  inconveniencing  one's  neighbors;  the  elbows  are  to  be  held  well  in 
and  close  to  one's  side,  which  cannot  be  done  if  the  chair  is  too  near  the  board. 
One  must  not  he  or  lean  along  the  table,  nor  rest  one's  arms  upon  it.  Nor  is  one 
to  touch  any  of  the  dishes;  if  a  member  of  the  family,  one  can  exercise  all  the  du- 
ties of  hospitaUty  through  servants,  and  wherever  there  are  servants,  neither 
f amHy  nor  guests  are  to  pass  or  help  from  any  dish.  Finally,  when  rising  from 
your  chair  leave  it  where  it  stands. 


H)inners«(5mng^ 


THE  LAYING  OF  THE  TABLE  AND  THE  TREATMENT 

OF  GUESTS. 

In  giving  ^^  dinners,"  the  apparently  trifling  details  are  of  great  importance 
when  taken  as  a  whole. 

We  gather  around  our  board  agreeable  persons,  and  they  pay  us  and  our 
dinn^  the  courtesy  of  dressing  for  the  occasion,  and  this  reunion  should  be  a 
time  of  profit  as  weU  as  pleasure.  There  are  certain  established  laws  by  which 
"  dinner  giving  "  is  regulated  in  polite  society;  and  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  give 
a  few  observances  in  relation  to  them.  One  of  the  first  is  that  an  invited  guest 
should  arrive  at  the  house  of  his  host  at  least  a  quarter  of  an  horn:  before  the 
time  appointed  for  dinner.  In  laying  the  table  for  dinner  oH  the  hnen  should 
be  a  spotless  white  throughout,  and  underneath  the  linen  table-cloth  should  be 
spread  one  of  thick  cotton-fiannel  or  baize,  which  gives  the  linen  a  heavier  and 
finer  appearance,  also  deadening  the  sound  of  moving  dishes.    Large  and  neatly 


•JL-OI 


MISCELLANEOUS.  50I 

folded  napkins  (ironed  without  starch),  with  pieces  of  bread  three  or  four  in- 
ches long,  placed  between  the  folds,  but  not  to  completely  conceal  it,  are  laid  on 
each  plate.  An  ornamental  centre-piece,  or  a  vase  filled  with  a  few  rare  flow- 
ers, is  put  on  the  centre  of  the  table,  in  place  of  the  large  table-castor,  which  has 
gone  into  disuse,  and  is  rarely  seen  now  on  well-appointed  tables.  A  few  choice 
flowers  make  a  charming  variety  in  the  appearance  of  even  the  most  simply  laid 
table,  and  a  pleasing  variety  at  table  is  quite  as  essential  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
repast  as  is  a  good  choice  of  dishes,  for  the  eye  in  fact  should  be  gratified  as 
much  as  the  palate. 

All  dishes  should  be  arranged  in  harmony  with  the  decorations  of  the  flowers, 
such  as  covers,  relishes,  confectionary,  and  small  sweets.  Garnishing  of  dishes 
has  also  a  great  deal  to  do  with  the  appearance  of  a  dinner-table,  each  dish  gar- 
nished sufficiently  to  be  in  good  taste  without  looking  absurd. 

Beside  each  plate  should  be  laid  as  many  knives,  forks,  and  spoons  as  will  be 
required  for  the  several  courses,  tmless  the  hostess  prefers  to  have  them  brought 
on  with  each  change.  A  glass  of  water,  and  when  wine  is  served  glasses  for  it, 
and  individual  salt-cellars  may  be  placed  at  every  plate.  Water-bottles  are  now 
much  in  vogue  with  corresponding  tumblers  to  cover  them;  these,  accompanied 
with  dishes  of  broken  ice,  may  be  arranged  in  suitable  places.  When  butter  is 
served  a  special  knife  is  used,  and  that,  with  all  other  required  service,  may  be 
left  to  the  judgment  and  taste  of  the  hostess,  in  the  proper  placing  of  the  various 
aids  to  her  guests'  comfort. 

The  dessert  plates  should  be  set  ready,  each  with  a  doily  and  a  finger-glass 
partly  filled  with  water,  in  which  is  dropped  a  slice  of  lemon;  these,  with 
extra  knives,  forks  and  spoons,  should  be  on  the  side-board  ready  to  be  placed 
by  the  guest,  between  the  courses  when  required. 

If  preferred,  the  "  dinner  "  may  all  be  served  from  the  side-table,  thus  reliev- 
ing the  host  from  the  task  of  carving.  A  plate  is  set  before  each  guest,  and  the 
dish  carved  is  presented  by  the  waiter  on  the  left-hand  side  of  each  guest.  At 
the  end  of  each  course  the  plates  give  way  for  those  of  the  next.  If  not  served 
from  the  side-table,  the  dishes  are  brought  in  ready  carved,  and  placed  before 
the  host  and  hostess,  then  served  and  placed  upon  the  waiter's  salver,  to  be  laid 
by  that  attendant  before  the  g^uest. 

Soup  and  fish  being  the  first  course,  plates  of  soup  are  usually  placed  on  the 
table  before  the  dinner  is  announced;  or  if  the  hostess  wishes  the  soup  served  afc 
the  table,  the  soup-tureen,  containing  Jiot  soup,  and  the  warm  soup-plates  are 
placed  before  the  seat  of  the  hostess.  Soup  and  fish  being  disposed  of,  then 
come  the  joints  or  roasts,  entries  (made  dishes),  ix)ultry,  etc.,  also  relishes. 


502  MISCELLANEOUS. 

After  dishes  have  been  passed  that  are  required  no  more^  such  as  vegetables^ 
hot  sauces,  etc.,  the  dishes  containing  them  maybe  set  upon  the  side-board^  ready 
to  be  taken  away. 

Jellies  and  sauces,  when  not  to  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  should  be  helped  on  the 
dinner-plate,  not  on  a  small  side  dish  as  was  the  former  usage. 

If  a  dish  be  on  the  table,  some  parts  of  which  are  preferred  to  others,  accord- 
ing to  the  taste  of  the  individuals,  all  should  have  the  opportunity  of  choice. 
The  host  wiU  simply  ask  each  one  if  he  has  any  preference  for  a  particular  part; 
if  he  replies  in  the  negative,  you  aro  not  to  repeat  the  question,  nor  insist  that 
he  must  have  a  preference. 

Do  not  attempt  to  eulogize  your  dishes,  or  apologize  that  you  cannot  recom- 
mend them,— this  is  extreme  bad  taste;  as  also  is  the  vaunting  of  the  excellence 
of  your  wines,  etc.,  etc. 

Do  not  insist  upon  your  guests  partaking  of  particular  dishes.  Do  not  ask 
persons  more  than  once,  and  never  force  a  supply  upon  their  plates.  It  is  ill- 
bred,  though  common,  to  press  any  one  to  eat;  and  moreover,  it  is  a  great  an- 
noyance to  many. 

In  winter,  plates  should  always  be  warmed,  but  not  made  hot.  Two  kinds 
of  animal  food,  or  two  kinds  of  dessert,  should  not  be  eaten  off  of  one  plate,  and 
there  should  never  be  more  than  two  kinds  of  vegetables  with  one  course.  As- 
paragus, green  com,  cauliflower  and  raw  tomatoes,  comprise  one  course  in  place 
of  a  salad.  All  meats  should  be  cut  across  the  grain  in  very  thin  slices.  Fish, 
at,  dinner,  should  be  baked  or  boiled,  never  fried  or  broiled.  Baked  ham  may 
be  used  in  every  course  after  fish,  sliced  thin  and  handed  after  the  regular  course 
is  disposed  of. 

The  hostess  should  retain  her  plate,  knife  and  fork,  until  her  guests  have  fin- 
ished. 

The  crumb-brush  is  not  used,  until  the  preparation  for  bringing  in  the  des- 
sert; then  all  the  glasses  are  removed,  except  the  flowers,  the  water-tumblers, 
and  the  glass  of  wine  which  the  guest  wishes  to  retain  with  his  dessert.  The  des- 
sert plate  containing  the  finger-bowl,  also  a  dessert  knife  and  fork,  should  then 
be  set  before  each  guest,  who  at  once  removed  the  finger-bowl  and  its  doily,  and 
the  knife  and  fork  to  the  table,  leaving  the  plate  ready  to  be  used  for  any  des- 
sert chosen. 

Finely  sifted  sugar  should  always  be  placed  upon  the  table  to  be  used  with 
puddings,  pies,  fruit,  etc.,  and  if  cream  is  required,  let  it  stand  by  the  dish  it  is 
to  be  served  with. 

To  lay  a  dessert  for  a  small  entertainment,  and  a  few  guests  outside  of  the 


MISCELLANEOUS.  503 

family^  it  may  consist  simply  of  two  dishes  of  fresh  fruit  in  season,  two  of  dried 
fruits  and  two  each  of  cakes  and  nuts. 

Coffee  and  tea  are  served  lastly ^  poured  into  tiny  cups  and  served  clear, 
passed  around  on  a  tray  to  each  guest,  then  the  sugar  and  cream  passed,  that 
each  person  may  he  allowed  to  season  his  hlack  coffee  or  caf6  noir  to  suit  him- 
self. 

A  family  dinner ^  even  with  a  few  friends,  can  be  made  quite  attractive  and 
satisfactory  without  much  display  or  expense;  consisting  first  of  good  soup,  then 
fish  garnished  with  suitable  additions,  followed  by  a  roast;  then  vegetables  and 
some  made  dishes,  a  salad,  crackers,  cheese  and  olives,  then  dessert.  This  sen- 
sible meal,  well-cooked  and  neatly  served,  is  pleasing  to  almost  any  one,  and  is 
within  the  means  of  any  housekeeper  in  ordinary  circumstances. 


Aeasures  anb  Meigbts 


IN  ORDINARY  USE  AMONG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


4  Teaspoonfuls  equal  1  tablespoonful  liquid. 
4  Tablespoonfuls  equal  1  wineglass,  or  half  a  gilL 
2  Wineglasses  equal  1  gill,  or  half  a  cup. 
2  Gills  equal  1  coffee-cupful,  or  16  tablespoonfuls. 
2  Coffee-cupfuls  equal  1  pint. 
2  Pints  equal  1  quart. 
4  Quarts  equal  1  gallon. 
2  Tablespoonfuls  equal  1  ounce,  liquid. 
1  Tablespoonful  of  salt  equals  1  ounce. 
16  Ounces  equal  1  pound,  or  a  pint  of  liquid. 
4  Coffee-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  equal  1  pound. 
1  Quart  of  unsifted  flour  equals  1  pound. 
8  or  10  ordinary  sized  eggs  equal  1  pound. 

1  Pint  of  sugar  equals  1  pound.    (White  granulated.) 

2  Coffee-cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  equal  1  pound. 

1  Coffee-cupful  of  cold  butter,  pressed  down,  is  one  half  pound. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  soft  butter,  well  rounded,  equals  1  ounce. 

An  ordinary  tumblerful  equals  1  coffee  cupful,  or  half  a  pint. 

About  25  drops  of  any  thin  Uquid  will  fill  a  common-sized  teaspoon. 

1  Pint  of  finely  chopped  meat,  packed  solidly,  equals  one  pound. 

A  set  of  tin  measures  (with  small  spouts  or  lips),  from  a  gallon  down  to  hal£ 
a  gill,  wiU  be  found  very  convenient  in  every  kitchen;  though  common  pitchersi 
bowls,  glasses,  etc.,  may  be  substituted. 


PAOB 

CAKVING. 

Beef,  Hind-quarter.. 2 

Beef,  Fore-quarter. . « .- 2 

Veal,  Hind<quarter 4 

Veal,  Fore-quarter 4 

Mutton 6' 

Pork 6 

Venison 7 

Sirloin  of  Beef 8 

Breast  of  Veal 9 

AFiUetof  Veal 10 

Neck  of  Veal 11 

Leg  of  Mutton 12 

Fore-quarter  of  Lamb 13 

Ham 14 

Haunch  of  Venison 15 

Turkey 16 

Boast  Goose 17 

Fowls 17 

Boast  Duck 18 

Partridges 18 

Pheasant 19 

Pigeons 19 

Mackerel 20 

BoUed  Salmon 20. 

SOUPS. 

Herbs  and  Vegetables  Used  inSoups 28 

Stock 24 

White  Stock 24 

To  Clarify  Stock 26 

BeefSoup 25 

Veal  Soup  (Excellent)  25 

Scotch  Mutton  Broth 25 

Game  Soup 26 

White  Mushroom  Soup  ■. 26 

Chicken  Cream  Soup 27 


Plain  Economical  Soup 27 

Ox-tail  So  up 28 

Com  Soup 28 

Split  Pea  Soup,  No.  1  29 

Split  Pea  Soup,  No.  2 29 

Green  Pea  Soup 29 

Dried  Bean  Soup 1 . .  29 

Turtle  Soup  from  Beans 80 

Philadelphia  Pepper  Pot 80 

Squirrel  Soup 80 

Tomato  Soup,  No.  1 81 

Swiss  White  Soup 81 

Spring  Vegetable  Soup 81 

Mullagatawny  Soup  (as  made  in  India) 81 

Mock  Turtle  Soup,  of  Calf  s  Head 82 

Green  Turtle  Soup 82 

Macaroni  Soup 88 

Turkey  Soup * ^ 88 

Gumbo  or  Okra  Soup 88 

Tapioca  Cream  Soup 84 

SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Onion  Soup 84 

Winter  Vegetable  Soup 84 

Vermicelli  Soup 85 

Tomato  Soup,  No.  2 85 

Tomato  Soup,  No.  8 85 

Celery  Soup 85 

Irish  Potato  Soup 85 

Pea  Soup 86 

Noodles  for  Soup ; . ..  86 

Force  Meat  BaUs  for  Soup 86 

EggBallsfor  Soup 86 

Egg  Dumplings  for  Soup 86 

Suet  Dumplings  for  Soup 87 

Soyer^s  Bedpe  for  Force  Meats 87 

Croutons  for  Soup 87 


5o6 


INDEX. 


IUi8todc.«*.«* 38 

FlihSoQp. 

Lobster  Bonp,  orBisqiie 

€>7ster  Soiq^f  No.  1.., 

Oyster  Soop,  No.  3 

Clam  Soap  (Plain  and  French  Style) 

MODES  OF  FBYINa. 40 

FISH. 

TifFryFidi 42 

Pan  Fish 48 

Baked  Pickerel 48 

BoOed  Salmon 48 

Broiled  Salmon 44 

Fresh  Salmon  Fried 44 

Salmon  and  Caper  Sauce 44 

Broiled  Salt  Salmon  or  Other  Salt  Fish 44 

Pickled  Salmon 44 

Smoked  Salmon 45 

Fricassee  Salmon 45 

Salmon  Patties 45 

Fish  and  Oyster  Pie 45 

Steamed  Fish 46 

To  Broil  a  Shad 46 

Baked  Shad 46 

To  Cook  a  Shad  Roe 47 

To  Cook  Shad  Roe  (another  way) 47 

Eels  k  la  Tartare 47 

Fried  Eels 47 

Sheepshead  with  Drawn  Butter 47 

Baked  White  Fish 48 

HaUbut  Boiled '. 48 

Steamed  Halibut 48 

Fried  HaUbut,  Nal../. 49 

Fried  HaUbut,  No.  2 49 

Baked  Halibut 49 

HaUbut  Broiled 49 

Fried  Brook  Trout 49 

Fried  Smelts 50 

Boiled  White  Fish. 50 

Baked  White  Fish  (Bordeaux  Sauce) 50 

Baked  Salmon  Trout... 50 

To  Bake  Smelts 51 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel 51 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel 51 

Baked  SaltMackerel 52 

Fried  Salt  Mackerel 52 

Boiled  Fresh  Mackerel 52 

Potted  Fresh  Fish 52 

Scalloped  Grabs 53 

Fish  in  White  Sauce 58 

Fresh  Sturgeon  Steak  Marinade 58 

Potted  Fish 58 

Mayonnaise  Fish 64 


Fish  Chowder  (Rhode  Uaad) M 

Codfish  Balls 51 

Stewed  Codfish  (Salt) 8 

Codflshila  Mode 95 

Bofled  Fresh  Cod 0 

Scalloped  Fish S5 

Fish  Fritters 56 

Boiled  Salt  Codfish  (Ifew  England  Stsle)....  56 

Boiled  Codfish  and  Oyster  Sauce 56 

Baked  Codfish 56 

Codfish  Steak  (New  England  Style) 97 

Salmon  Croquettes 97 

SHELL-FIBH. 

Stewed  Water  Turtles,  or  Terrapins 67 

Stewed  Terrapin,  with  Cream 58 

Stewed  Terrapin. 56 

Boiled  Lobster 56 

Scalloped  Lobster 59 

Deviled  Lobster 69 

Lobster  Croquettes 60 

Lobster  Patties 60 

To  Pot  Lobsters 60 

Baked  Crabs 61 

Deviled  Crabs 6t 

Crab  Croquettes 61 

To  Make  a  Crab  Pie 61 

Crabs  (Soft  SheU) 68 

Oysters 68 

Fried  Oysters 68 

Oysters  Fried  m  Batter 68 

Stewed  Oysters  (in  Milk  or  Cream) 63 

Plain  Oyster  Stew 68 

Oyster  Soup 68 

Dry  Oysfar  Stew 63 

Boston  Fry 63 

Broiled  Oysters 63 

Roast  Oysters  hi  the  SheU 63 

Oyster  Roast.  No.  2 64 

Steamed  Oysters 64 

Steamed  Oysters  in  the  SheU 64 

Pan  Oysters,  Na  1 64 

Pan  Oysters,  No.  2 64 

Oyster  Fritters 65 

Oyster  Patties 65 

Fulton  Market  Roast 66 

ScaUoped  Oysters 66 

Oyster  Pot-pie 66 

Boston  Oyster  Pie 66 

Mock  Oysters 67 

Fricasseed  Oysters. 67 

SmaU  Oyster  Pies 67 

StewedClams 68 

Boast  Clams  in  the  Shell 68 


INDEX. 


507 


ClamlVitten 68 

dam  Chowder 68 

Scalloped  damB 69 

Scallops ;  69 

Frogs  Fried 69 

Frogs  Stewed 69 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

BoasfcTurkey 71 

Drossiiig  or  Stuffing  for  Fowls 72 

Oyster  Dressmg  or  Stuffing 72 

Boiled  Turkey 78 

Turkey  Scallop 73 

Turkey  Hashed 78 

Turkey  Warmed  Over 78 

Boned  Turkey 74 

Boast  Qoose 74 

Boast  Chicken 74 

Boiled  Chicken 75 

Steamed  Chicken 75 

Fricassee  Chicken 75 

Stewed  Whole  Spring  Chicken 76 

Pickled  Chicken 76 

Bissoles  of  Chicken 76 

Chicken  Patties 77 

To  Broil  Chicken 77 

Chicken  Pie 77 

Fried  Chicken 78 

Fried  Chicken  4  la  Italienne 78 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Ho.  1 78 

Chicken  Croquettes,  No.  2.' 79 

To  Fry  Croquettes 79 

Pressed  Chicken 79 

Chicken  Lunch  for  Travelling 79 

Potted  Chicken 80 

Scalloped  Chicken 80 

Breaded  Chicken 80 

Broiled  Chicken  on  Toast 80 

Curry  Chicken 81 

Chicken  Pot-pie,  No.  1 81 

Chicken  Pot-pie,  No.  2 82 

Chicken  Stewed,  with  Biscuit 82 

Chicken  Dressed  as  Terrapin 82 

Chicken  Boly-poly 83 

Chicken  Turnovers 88 

Chicken  Pudding 88 

Chicken  and  Haocaroni 84 

Boast  Duck  (Tame) 84 

BraisedDudEB 84 

Stewed  Duck 85 

ZhickPie 85 

Warmed  up  Duck 85 

Boast  Wild  Duck 85 

"Wild  Ducks 86 


PJLSS 

Canvas-back  Duck 86 

BoastPigeons 86 

Stewed  Pigeons 86 

Pigeon  Pie 87 

Broiled  Pigeons  or  Squabs 87 

Squab  Pot-pie 87 

Woodcock,  Boasted 87 

Snipe 88 

BeedBizds 88 

Boast  QuaQ 88 

To  Boast  Partridges,  Pheasants,  Quails  or 

Ghxmse 88 

GamePie 88 

Snow  Birds ,  89 

Squirrel 89 

Boast  Haro  or  Babbit 89 

Fricassee  BcOibit 89 

Fried  Eahbit 90 

BabbitPie 90 

Brofled  Babbits 90 

Salmi  of  Game 90 

Boast  Haunch  of  Venison 91 

BroUed  Venison  Steak 91 

Baked  Saddle  of  Venison 91 

Venison  Pie  or  Pastry 92. 

Venison  Hashed 92 

Fried  Venison  Steak. 98 

MEATS. 

Thawing  Frozen  Meat,  etc 95 

To  Keep  Meat  from  Flies 96 

BoastBeef 96 

Yorkshire  Pudding 97 

Beefsteak,  No.  1 97 

Beefsteak,  No.  2 97 

Beefsteak  and  Onions 98 

Beefsteak  and  Oysters 98 

To  Fry  Beef  steaks 98 

Pot  Boast  (Old  Style) 98 

Spiced  Beef  (Excellent) 99 

Beef  &  la  Mode 99 

Tenderloin  of  Beef 100 

Stewed  Steak  with  Oysters 100 

Smothered  Beefsteak 101 

BeeJbteak  Bolls 101 

To  Collar  a  Flank  of  Beef 101 

Dried  Beef 103 

Beef  Corned  or  Salted  (Bed) 102 

Boast  Beef  Pie  with  Potato  Crust 108 

Boast  Beef  Pie. 108 

Beef  Steak  Pie 103 

Frizzled  Beef 104 

FlankSteak , 104 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef 104 


5o8 


INDEX. 


Spiced  Beef  Beliflh 105 

Fried  Beef  laver 105 

Pressed  Beef 105 

French  Stew 105 

To  Pot  Beef 105 

Stewed  Brisket  of  Beef 106 

Dried  Beef,  with  Cream 106 

Beef  Croquettes,  No.  1 106 

Beef  Croquettes,  No.  2 107 

Meat  and  Potato  Croquettes 107 

Cold  Boast,  Warmed,  No.  1 107 

Cold  Boast,  Warmed,  No.  3 107 

Cold  Meat  and  Potato,  Baked 108 

Beef  Hash,  No.  1 108 

Beef  Hash,  No.  2 108 

Hamburger  Steak 109 

To  Boast  Beef  Heart 109 

Stewed  Beef  Kidney 109 

Beefs  Heart,  Stewed 109 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue 110 

Spiced  Beef  Tongue 110 

To  Boil  Tripe 110 

To  Fry  Tripe 110 

Fricasseed  Tripe Ill 

Tripe  Lyonnaise Ill 

To  Clarify  Beef  Drippings Ill 

Boast  Loin  of  Veal Ill 

Boast  Fillet  of  Veal 112 

Boiled  Paiet  of  Veal 112 

Veal  Pudding 112 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets 113 

Fried  Veal  Chops  (Plain) 113 

Veal  CoUops 113 

Veal  Olives 118 

Veal  Cheese 114 

Veal  Croquettes 114 

Broiled  Veal  Cutlets  (Fine) 114 

Veal  Pot-pie 114 

Veal  Pie 115 

Veal  Stew 115 

Veal  Loaf , 116 

Veal  for  Lunch 116 

Veal  Patties. 116 

Braised  Veal 117 

Baked  Calf  s  Head 117 

CalfsHead  Cheese 117 

Brain  Cutlets 118 

Calfs  Head  Boiled 118 

Calf  s  Liver  and  Bacon. 118 

BoUed  Calf  s  Feet 119 

Sweetbreads 119 

Fried  Sweetbreads. 119 

Baked  Sweetbreads 119 

Fricasseed  Sweetbreads 130 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Boast  Mutton ^ latv. 

Boned  Leg  of  Mutton  Boasted iso^ 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton 121 

Braised  Leg  of  Mutton 12I 

Ij&g  ot  Mutton  k  la  Venison. 121 

Steamed  Leg  of  Mutton ^s& 

Hashed  Mutton 122. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops 122^ 

Fried  Mutton  Chops,  No.  1 123 

Fried  Mutton  Chops,  Na  2 128. 

Mutton  Cutlets  (Baked) 128. 

Baked  Mutton  Chops  and  Potatoes 123 

Muttonettes 124 

Lrish  Stew 124' 

Mutton  Pudding 124. 

Scrambled  Mutton. 125 

Scalloped  Mutton  and  Tomatoes 125 

Lamb  Sweetbreads  and  Tomato  Sauce 125 

Boast  Quarter  of  Lamb 125. 

To  Broil  the  Fore-quarter  of  Lamb 126 

Lamb  Stew 126^ 

Pressed  Lamb 126- 

Croquettes  of  Odds  and  Ends 127 

POBK. 

Boast  Pig 127 

Boast  Loin  of  Pork 128 

Boast  Leg  of  Pork 128- 

Boiled  Leg  of  Pork 129 

Fresh  Pork  Pot-pie. 129 

Boast  Spare-rib 129^ 

Pork  Tenderloins 129 

Pork  Cutlets ISO- 
Pork  Chops  and  Fried  Apples ISO- 
Fried  Pork  Chops ISO 

PorkPie ISO- 

Pork  Pot-pie 181 

Pork  and  Beans  (Baked) 181. 

Boston  Pork  and  Beans 131 

Fried  Salt  Pork 182 

Grilled  Salt  Pork 132 

Fried  Ham  and  £;ggs 132 

Cold  Bacon  and  E^ggs 183 

Scrappel 133 

To  Bake  a  Ham  (Corned) 133 

Pig's  Feet  Pickled 183 

Boiled  Ham 134 

Broiled  Ham I84 

Potted  Ham 184 

Bologna  Sausage  (Cooked) 185 

Country  Pork  Sausages 185 

To  Fry  Sausages 185 

Head  Cheese 136^ 


INDEX. 


509 


ToCore  Hams  and  Bacon  (A  Prise  Recipe)...  136 

To  Smoke  Hams  and  Fish  at  Home 186 

To  Cure  English  Bacon 187 

To  Try  Out  Lard 187 

SAUCES  AKD  DRESSINGS. 

Drawn  Butter 1 88 

Egg  Sauce,  or  White  Sauce 188 

Oyster  Sauce 1 38 

Lobster  Sauce 139 

Sauce  for  Sahnon  and  Other  Fish 189 

Sauce  for  BoOed  Cod 189 

FishSauce.     No.  2 189 

FishSauce.     No.  8 189 

Celery  Sauce 140 

Caper  Sauce. 140 

Bread  Sauce 140 

Tomato  Sauce 140 

Onion  Sauce 141 

Chili  Sauce 141 

Mint  Sauce 141 

Sharp  Brown  Sauce 141 

Bechamel  Sauce 141 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce .' 143 

Wine  Sauce  for  Game 142 

Hollandaise  Sauce 142 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce 142 

Brown  Sauce 142 

Mushroom  Sauce 148 

Apple  Sauce 148 

Cider  Apple  Sauce 148 

Old-fashioned  Apple  Sauce 143 

Cranberry  Sauce 144 

Apple  Omelet 144 

Flavored  Vinegars 144 

Cucumber  Vinegar 144 

Curry  Powder 146 

Curry  Sauce 145 

To  Brown  Butter 146 

To  Brown  Flour 145 

To  Make  Mustard 146 

French  Mustard 146 

Kitchen  Pepper 146 

Prex>ared  Cocoanut,  (for  Pies,  Puddings,  &c.)  146 

Spices 146 

Herbs  for  Winter 147 

If  eats  and  Their  Accompaniments 147 

Vegetables  Appropriate  to  Different  Dishes..  148 

"Warm  Dishes  for  Breakfast. 148 

Vegetables  for  Breakfast 148 

SALADS. 

JkCayonnaise  Dressing 149 

J>ressing  for  Cold  Slaw.    (Cabbac^e  Salad.). .  160 


PA0S 

Salad  Cream  Dressing.    No.  1 160 

Cream  Dressing.    No.  2 150 

French  Salad  Dressing 150 

Mixed  Bummer  Salad 151 

Chicken  Salad 151 

Lobster  Salad.    No.  1 151 

Lobster  Salad.    No.  2 152 

Fish  Salad 152 

Oyster  Salad 152 

Dutch  Salad 152 

Ham  Salad 153 

CrabSaaad 158 

Cold  Slaw 158 

Plain  Cold  Slaw. 158 

Hot  Slaw 158 

TomatoSalad 154 

Endive 164 

Celery  Salad 154 

Lettuce  Salad 154 

Potato  Salad,  Hot 164 

Potato  Salad,  Cold 155 

Bean  Salad 156 

To  Dress  Cucumbers  Baw. 165 

Celery  Undressed 155 

Radishes 155 

Peppergrass  and  Cress 155 

Horse-radish 156 

Lettuce 15^ 

CATSUPS. 

Tomato  Catsup.    No.  1 15^ 

Tomato  Catsup.    No.  2 \^ 

Qreen  Tomato  Catsup I6tf 

Walnut  Catsup. ,  157 

Oyster  Catsup 157 

Mushroom  Catsup , 157 

Gooseberry  Catsup 168 

Cucumber  Catsup 168 

Currant  Catsup I63 

Apple  Catsup ]68 

Celery  "Vinegfar 158 

Spiced  Vinegar. 159 

PICKLES. 

Cucumber  Pickles 159 

Sliced  Cucumber  Pickle. 160 

Cucumber  Pickles,  (for  Winter  Use). 160 

Green  Tomato  Pickles,  (Sweet) 16O 

Green  Tomato  Pickles,  (Sour) 161 

Pickled  Mushrooms I6I 

Pickled  Cabbage,  (Purple) 161 

Pickled  White  Cabbage. 168 

Pickled  Cauliflower. 162 

Pickled  Green  Peppers. 162 


5IO 


INDEX. 


Green  Pepper  Mangoes iftj 

Ohowohowy  (Superior  English  Bedpe) '  1(J8 

Pickled  Onions 1(J8 

Pidded  Mangoes 168 

Pickle  of  Eipe  Cucumbers 164 

Pickled  Oysters 164 

Ripe  Cucumber  PicUeSy  (Sweet) 164 

Piccalili , 165 

Pickledi^ggs 165 

An  Ornamental  Pickle 165 

East  India  Pidde 165 

Mixed  Pickles 166 

Blue-beny  Pickles 166 

Pickled  Butternuts  and  Walnuts 166 

Watermelon  Pidde 167 

Sweet  Pickle  for  Fruit 167 

Pear  Pickle 167 

Spiced  Currants 1 68 

Spiced  Plums 168 

Spiced  Grapes 1 68 

Pickled  Cherries 168 

VEGETABLES. 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes. 16^ 

Mashed  Potatoes 170 

Browned  Potatoes 170 

Mashed  Potatoes,  (Warmed  Over) 170 

Potato  Puffs 171 

Potatoes  k  la  Crdme 171 

New  Potatoes  and  Cream 171 

Saratoga  Chips 171 

Pried  Baw  Potatoes 171 

Scalloped  Potatoes,  (Kentucky  Style) 172 

Steamed  Potatoes 172 

Potato  Snow 172 

Hasty  Cooked  Potatoes 172 

Favorite  Warmed  Potatoes. 178 

Crisp  Potatoes 178 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 178 

Potato  Fillets 178 

Potato  Croquettes.    No.  1 174 

Potato  Croquettes.    No.  2 174 

Potatoes  4  la  Delmonico 174 

Fried  Potatoes  with  E^ 174 

Baked  Potatoes 175 

Browned  Potatoes  with  a  Boast    No.  1 175 

Browned  Potatoes  with  a  Boast.    No.  2 175 

Sweet  Potatoes. 175 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 176 

Onions  Boiled 176 

Onions  Stewed. 176 

Onions  Baked 176 

Fried  Onions 176 

Scalloped  Onions 177 

(Cauliflower 177 


Pi 

Fried  Cauliflower..: ITT 

Cabbage  Boiled. 177 

Cabbage  with  Cream. 178 

Steamed  Cabbage 178 

Ladies*  Cabbage 178 

Fried  Cabbage 178 

French  Way  of  Cooking  Cabbage. 179 

Sour-crout. 179 

To  Boa  Bice 179 

Parsnips,  BoUed 180 

Fried  Parsnips. 180 

Stewed  Parsnips 180 

Parsm'p  Fritters 180 

Creamed  Parsnips 180 

Stewed  Tomatoes 181 

To  Peel  Tomatoes 181 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 181 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes 181 

Baked  Tomatoes,  (Plain) 182 

To  Prepare  Tomatoes,  (Raw) 182 

Fried  and  Boiled  Tomatoes 182 

Scrambled  Tomatoes 182 

Cucumber  4  la  Crdme 188 

Fried  Cucumbers 188 

Green  Com,  Boiled. 188 

Com  Pudding 188 

Stewed  Com 188 

Fried  Cora 184 

Boasted  Green  Com 184 

Succotash 184 

Fried  Ete-plant 184 

Stuffed  E^-pIant 185 

String  Beans. 185 

Lima  and  Kidney  Beans 185 

Celery 185 

Stewed  Salsify  or  ()yster  Plant 165 

Fried  Salsify 186 

Beets  Boiled 186 

Baked  Beets 186 

Stewed  Beets 186 

Okra 186 

Asparagus , 187 

Asparagus  with  £^gs. 187 

Green  Peas 187 

Stewed  Green  Peas 187 

Squashes,  or  Cymblings. 188 

Boiled  Winter  Squash 188 

Baked  Winter  Squash 188 

Vegetable  Hash 188 

Spinach 4 188 

Greens 189 

Stewed  Carrots 189 

Carrots  Mashed. 169 

Turnips 190 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 190 


INDEX. 


5" 


stewed  Endhra 190 

Baked  Mushrooms 100 

Stewed  Mushrooms. 190 

Canned  Mushrooms 191 

Mushrooms  for  Wmter  use 191 

Truffles 191 

Italian  Style  of  Dressing  Truffles 192 

TrnfOes  au  Naturel 192 

MACCARONI. 

Maocaroni  4  la  Italienne 193 

Maocaroni  and  CHiieese 193 

Timbale  of  Maocaroni 198 

Maocaroni  &  la  Crtoie 198 

Maocaroni  and  Tomato  Sauoe. 198 

BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

To  make  Butter 194 

To  make  Butter  Quickly 195 

A  Brine  to  Preserve  Butter 195 

Putting  up  Butter  to  Keep 195 

Curds  and  Cream 195 

New  Jersey  Cream  Cheese 196 

Cottage  Cheese 196 

Slip 196 

Cheese  Fondu 197 

Cheese  Souffle 197 

Scalloped  Cheese 197 

Pastry  Ramakins 197 

Cayenne  Cheese  Straws 198 

Cheese  Cream  Toast 198 

Welsh  Rarebit 198 

EGGS. 

To  Preserve  E;gg8 199 

BoUedElggs 200 

Soft  BoUed  £;ggs 200 

Scalloped  E;ggs 200 

Shirred  £^;gs 200 

Scrambled  Elggs 201 

Poached  or  Dropped  Eiggs 201 

Fried  Eggs 201 

ilggs  aux  Fines  Herbes 202 

Poached  E;ggs  &  la  Crdme 202 

E^  in  Cases 202 

Minced  Eggs 202 

Mixed  Eggs  and  Bacon 208 

Mixed  E^s  Gtenerally.—Savory  or  Sweet. . .  208 

Cold  Elggs  for  a  Picnic. 208 

Omelets 208 

Plain  Omelet 204 

Meator  Fish  Omelets 204 

Vegetable  Omelet 205 

Omelet  of  Herbs 205 


PAOB 

Cheese  Omelet 205 

Asparagus  Omelet 205 

Tomato  Omelet    Ko.  1 205 

Tomato  Omelet.    No.  2 205 

Rice  Omelet. 206 

HamOmelet 206 

Chicken  Omelet 20b 

Mushroom  Omelet 206 

Oyster  Omelet 206 

Fish  Omelet 207 

Onion  Omelet 207 

Jelly  Omelet 207 

BreadOmelet.    No.  1 207 

Bre&d  Omelet.    No.  2 207 

Baked  Omelet. 206 

OmeletSouffl6 208 

Rum  Omelet 208 


SANDWICHES. 

Ham  Sandwiches 209 

Ham  Sandwiches,  Plain 209 

Chicken  Sandwiches • .  209 

Sardine  Sandwiches 209 

Watercress  Sandwiches 210 

Egg  Sandwiches 2i0 

Mushroom  Sandwiches »  :;slO 

Cheese  Sandwiches :310 

BREAD. 

General  Directions 211 

WheatBread   218 

Compressed  Yeast  Bread 218 

Home-made  Teast 214 

Unrivaled  Teast 214 

Dried  Yeast  or  Yeast  Cakes '.  215 

Salt-raising  Bread 215 

Bread  from  Milk  Yeast 215 

Graham  Bread 216 

Graham  Bread.    (Unfermented.) 216 

Boston  Brown  Bread 216 

Boston  Brown  Bread.    (Unfermented.) 217 

Virginia  Brown  Bread 217 

Rhode  Island  Brown  Bread 217 

Steamed  Brown  Bread 217 

Rye  Bread 217 

Rye  and  Com  Bread 218 

French  Bread 218 

Twist  Bread 218 

New  England  Com  Cake 219 

German  Bread 219 

Corn  Bread 219 

Virginia  Com  Bread 219 

Boston  Com  Bread 220 

Indian  Loaf  Cake 220 


512 


INDEX. 


PlOB 

Johnnie  Cake 330 

Spider  Corn-cake 221 

Southern  Corn-meal  Pone  or  Com  Dodgers.  221 
Baiaed  Potato-cake 221 

BISCUITS,  BOLLS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

€(eneral  Suggestions 221 

To  Benew  Stale  BoUb 222 

Warm  Bread  for  Breakfast 222 

Soda  Biscuit 228 

Baking-powder  Biscuit 228 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit 228 

Baised  Biscuit 228 

Light  Biscuit    No.  1 224 

Light  Biscuit    No.  2 224 

Graham  Biscuits,  with  Yeast 224 

I^gg  Biscuit 224 

Parker  House  Bolls 224 

Parker  House  BoUs.    (Unfermented.) 225 

French  Bolls 225 

Beaten  Biscuit 225 

Potato  Biscuit 226 

Vinegar  Biscuits 226 

Oraf  ton  Milk  Biscuits 226 

Sally  Lunn 226 

Sally  Lunn.    (Unfermented.) 226 

London  Hot-cross  Buns 227 

Husks,  with  Teast 227 

Busks 227 

Busks.    (Unfermented.) 227 

Scotch  Scones 228 

Cracknels 228 

Baised  Muffins.    No.  1 228 

Baised  Muffins.    No.  2 228 

Egg  Muffins.    (Fin&) 229 

Plain  Muffins 220 

Muffins  without  E^;gs 229 

Tennessee  Muffins 229 

Corn-meal  Muffins.    (Without  I^gs.) 280 

Hominy  Muffins 280 

Graham  Gtems.    No.  1 280 

Graham  G^ems.    No.  2 280 

Plain  Graham  Gems. 280 

Waffles 281 

Continental  Hotel  Waffiesi 281 

Newport  Waffles 281 

Cream  Waffles 281 

Bice  Waffles.    No.  1 282 

Bice  Waffles.    No.  2 282 

German  Bice  Waffles 282 

Berry  Tea-cakes 282 

Bye  Drop-cakes 282 

Wheat  Drop-cakes 288 

Pop-overs 288 


Flannel  Cakes.    (With  Yeast). 288 

Feather  Griddle-cakes.    (With  Teast) 288 

Wheat  Griddle-cakes 288 

Sour  Milk  Griddle-cakes , 288 

Corn-meal  Griddle-cakes.    (With  Yeast) . ...  284 

Corn-meal  Griddle-cakes 284 

Griddle-cakes.    (VeryGood.) 284 

Graham  Griddle-cakes 284 

Bread  Griddle-cakes 235 

Bice  Griddle-cakes. ...285 

Potato  Griddle-cakes 285 

Green  Corn  Griddle-cakes 285 

Huckleheny  Griddle-cakes 285 

French  Griddle-cakes 286 

Baised  Buckwheat  Cakes 286 

Buckwheat  Cakes  without  Yeast 286 

Buckwheat  Cakes 286 

Swedish  Griddle-cakes 286 

Com-meal  Fritters 287 

Cream  Fritters. 287 

Currant  Fritters 287 

Wheat  Fritters 287 

Apple  Fritters 287 

Pineapple  Fritters 288 

Peach  Fritters 288 

Golden-ball  Fritters 288 

Cannelons,  or  Fried  Pufb 288 

German  Fritters 239 

Hominy  Fritters 289 

Parsnip  Fritters 289 

Green  Com  Fritters 289 

Cream  Short-cake 240 

Strawberry  Short-cake 240 

Orange  Short-cake 240 

Lemon  Short-cake 240 

Huckleberry  Short-cake 241 

Fried  Dinner  Bolls 241 

Newport  Breakfast  Cake 241 

Puff  BaUs 241 

Breakfast  PufliB 243 

English  Crumpets 242 

Plain  Crumpets 242 

Prepared  Bread-crumbs 242 

Crackers 242 

French  Crackers 248 

Commeal  Mush  or  Hasty  Pudding 248 

Fried  Mush 248 

Graham  Mush 248 

Oatmeal 248 

Bice  Croquettes 243 

Hominy 244 

Hominy  Croquettes 244 

Boiled  Bice 344 

Samp,  or  Hulled  (}om 245 


INDEX. 


513 


PAOX 

Cracked  Wheat 245 

Oat  Flakes 245 

^Steamed  Oatmeal 245 

Hominy 246 

TOAST. 

Milk  Toast 246 

Cream  Toast 248 

American  Toast 246 

I^uns'  Toast 246 

Cheese  Toast    No.  1 247 

CheeseToast.    No.  2 247 

Oyster  Toast 247 

Mushrooms  on  Toast 247 

Tomato  Toast 248 

JJggs  on  Toast 248 

Baked  £;ggs  on  Toast 248 

Ham  Toast 248 

Beed  Birds  on  Toast 248 

Minoed  Fowls  on  Toast 248 

Hashed  Beef  on  Toast 249 

Teal  Hash  on  Toast 249 

Codfish  on  Toast.    (Cuban  Style.) 249 

Halibut  on  Toast 249 

Chicken  Hash  with  Bice  Toast 250 

Apple  Toast 260 

CAKES. 

Suggestions  in  Regard  to  Cake  Making 261 

Frosting  or  Icing 268 

Almond  Frosting 264 

Chocolate  Frosting 264 

Plain  Chocolate  Idag 264 

Tutti  Frutti  Icin^ 264 

'Sugar  Icing 254 

Boiled  Frosting 266 

Frosting-  without  E^ggs 266 

<7elatine  Frosting 265 

Gtolden  Frosting 256 

Bread  or  Raised  Cake 266 

Fruitcake.    (Superior) 266 

Fruit  Cake  by  Measure.    (Excellent.) 266 

'White  Fruit  Cake 267 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake 267 

Sponge  Cake 267 

"White  Sponge  Cake 267 

Almond.Sponge  Cake 268 

Old-fashioned  Sponge  Cake 268 

Lemon  Spongy  Cake 268 

Plain  Sponge  Cake 269 

Bride's  Cake 269 

English  Pound  Cake 269 

Plain  Pound  Cake 269 

Oocoanut  Pound  Cake - 


PAGE 

Citron  Pound  Cake 260 

atronCJake 260 

Lemon  Cake 260 

Delicate  Cake 260 

Silver,  or  Delicate  Cake 261 

Gold  Cake 261 

Gold  or  Lemon  Cake 261 

SnowCake.    (Delicious.) 261 

Marble  Cake 261 

Superior  Loaf  Cake 262 

French  Chocolate  Cake 262 

Chocolate  Cake.    No.  1 262 

Chocolate  Cake.    No.  2 263 

Chocolate  Cake.    No.  8 263 

Cocoanut  Cake 268 

Cocoanut  and  Almond  Cake 268 

Ck>ffeeCake 264 

Feather  Cake 264 

Election  Cake 264 

Cream  Cake 264 

Gtolden  Cream  Cake 264 

Dried  Apple  Fruit  Cake 266 

Cake  without  Elggs 265 

White  Mountain  Cake.    No.  1 266 

White  Mountain  Cake.    No.  2 266 

Queen's  Cake 266 

Angel  Cake 266 

Washington  Loaf  Cake 266 

Bibbon  Cake 266 

Golden  Spice  Cake 267 

Almond  Cake 267 

Rochester  Jelly  Cake 267 

Fruit  Layer  Cake 267 

Whipped  Cream  Cake 268 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake 268 

To  Cut  Layer  Cjike 268 

Layer  Jelly  Cake 268 

FILLINGS  FOB  LAYER  CAEDES. 

No.  1.    Cream  Filling 269 

No.  2.    Another  Cream  Filling 269 

No.  8.    Ice-cream  Filling 269 

No.  4.    AppleFilling 269 

No.  6.    Another  Apple  Filling 269 

No.  6.    Cream  Frosting 270 

No.  7.    Peach-cream  Filling 270 

No.  8.    Chocolate  Cream  for  Filling 270 

No.  9.    Another  Chocolate  Filling 270 

No.  10.    Banana  Filling 270 

No.  11.    Lemon  JeUy  Filling 270 

No.  12.    Orange  Cake  Filhng. 270 

No.  18.    Fig  Filling 271 

No.  14.    Fruit  Filling 271 

Custard  or  Cream  Cake 271 


5H 


INDEX. 


Hickory  Nut  or  Walnut  Cake 971 

Cheap  Oreom  Cake d73 

Soft  Ginger  Cake d73 

Hard  Qingerbread 272 

Plain  Gingerbread 272 

White  Ginger  Biscuit 278 

Gold  and  SUver  Cake 278 

Boston  Cream  Cakes • 278 

Chocolate  Eclairs 278 

Hucklebeny  Cake 274 

Sweet  Strawberry  Cake 274 

If  classes  Cup  Cakes 274 

Bakers^  Ginger  Snaps 274 

Ginger  Cookies   276 

Ginger  Snaps , 275 

Dominoes 275 

Fan<7  Cakes 275 

Wafers 275 

Peach  Cakes 276 

Cup  Cakes 276 

Variegated  Cakes 277 

Com  Starch  Cakes 277 

Sponge  Drops 277 

Savory  Biscuits  or  Lady  Fingers 277 

Pastry  Sandwiches 278 

Neapolitaines 278 

Brunswick  Jelly  Oakes 278 

Little  Plum  Cakes 279 

Jumbles 279 

Wine  Jumbles 279 

CoGoanut  Jumbles 279 

Philadelphia  Jumbles 279 

Almond  Jumbles 280 

Fruit  Jumbles 280 

Cookies 280 

Favorite  Cookies 280 

Fruit  Cookies 280 

Crisp  Cookies.    (Very  Nice.) 281 

Lemon  Cookies 281 

CoGoanut  Cookies 281 

Doughnuts  or  Fried  Cakes 281 

Crullers  or  Fried  Cakes 281 

Baised  Doughnuts 282 

Bakers'  Raised  Doughnuts 282 

Crullers  or  Wonders 282 

Grerman  Doughnuts 288 

Nut  Cakes  (Fried) 288 

Trifles... 288 

Puff-ball  Doughnuts 288 

PASTRY,  PIES  AND  TARTS. 

Gtenersd  Remarks 284 

How  to  Make  a  Pie 285 

For  Idng  Pastry 285 


Fine  Puff-paste 

Puff-paste  for  Pies 

Soyer^s  Recipe  for  Puff-paste 287 

Rule  for  Under  Crust 287 

Plain  Pie-crust 287 

Puff-paste  of  Suet 288 

Potato  Crust 288 

To  Make  Pie-crust  Flaky 288 

Tartlets 288 

Patties  or  Shells  for  Tarts 289 

Tartlets 289 

Tarts 289 

Green  Apple  Pie 289 

Apple  Custard  Pie.    No.  1 290 

Apple  Custard  Pie.    No.  2. 290 

Apple  Custard  Pie.    No.  8 290 

Apple  Custard  Pie.    No.  4 290 

Irish  Apple  Pie 290 

Mock  Apple  Pie 290 

Apple  and  Peach  Meringue  Pie 291 

CocoanutPie.    No.  1 291 

CocoanutPie.    No.  2 291 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie.    No.  1 291 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie.    No.  2 292 

Lemon  Pie.    (Superior.) 292 

Lemon  Pie.    No.  2 292 

LemonPie.    No.  8 292 

Lemon  Pie.    No.  4 292 

Orange  Pie 298 

Bakers'  Custard  Pie 298 

Cream  Pie 298 

Whipped  Cream  Pie 294 

Custard  Pie 294 

Boston  Cream  Pie. 294 

Mock  Cream  Pie 294 

Fruit  Custard  Pie 294 

Cherry  Pie 290^ 

Currant  Pie.    No.  1 295 

Ripe  Currant  Pie.    No.  2 295 

Green  Tomato  Pie 295 

Apricot  Meringue  Pie 295 

Huckleberry  Pie 29^ 

Blackberry  Pie 296 

Molasses  Pie 296 

Lemon  Raisin  Pie 21N^ 

Rhubarb  Pie 29ft 

Rhubarb  Pie,  Cooked 295 

PineapplePie 29T 

Grape  Pie 297 

Damson  or  Plum  Pie 297 

Peach  Pie 297 

Dried  Fruit  Pies 297 

Ripe  Berry  Pies 297 

Jelly  and  Preserved  Fruit  Pies 


INDEX. 


515 


Granbeny  Pie 396 

Cranberry  Tart  Pie 896 

Qooeeberry  Pie 896 

Stewed  Pumpkin  or  Bquaah  for  Pies 896 

Baked  Pumpkiii  or  Squash  for  Pies 899 

Pumpkin  Pie.    No.  1 899 

PumpkinPie.    No.  8 899 

Pumpkin  Pie,  without  E^gs 899 

Squash  Pie 899 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 899 

Cooked  Meat  for  Mince  Pies 800 

MincePies.    No.  1 800 

MincePies.    No.  8 800 

Mock  Mince-meat^' without  Meat 801 

Fruit  Turnover.    (Suitable  for  Picnics.) 801 

Plum  Custard  Tbrtlets 801 

Lemon  Tartlets.    No.  1 801 

Lemon  Tartlets.    No.  8 808 

Orange  Tartlets 808 

Meringue  Custard  Tartlets 808 

Beny  Tarts 808 

Cream  Strawberry  Tarts 808 

Green  Gooseberry  Tart 808 

Coooanut  Tarts 808 

Chocolate  Tarts 808 

Maids  of  Honor 804 

German  Fruit  Pie 804 

Apple  Tarts 804 

Cream  Tarts 804 

OpenJam  Tarts 805 

Chess  Cakes 806 

CUSTABDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTa 

Soft  Caramel  Custard 806 

Baked  Custard 806 

Cup  Custard 807 

Boiled  Custard 807 

Boiled  Custard,  or  Mock  Cream 807 

French  Custard 807 

German  Custard 806 

Apple  Custard 806 

Almond  Custard.    No.  1 808 

Almond  Custard.    No.  8 809 

Snowball  Custard 809 

Baked  Cocoanut  Custard 809 

Whipped  Cream.    No.  1 809 

Whipped  Cream.    No.  8 810 

Spanish  Cream 810 

Bavarian  Cream 8}0 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream 810 

Golden  Cream 811 

Chocolate  Cream.    No.  1 811 

Chocolate  Cream  or  Custard.    No.  8 811 

Lemon  Cream.    No.  1 811 


LemonOream.    N0.8. ^ 818^ 

Lemon  Cream.    No.  8. Z\% 

Orange  Cream 818- 

Solid  Cream 818 

Banana  Cream 818 

Tapioca  Cream  Custard 81ft 

Peach  Cream.    No.  1 818- 

Peach  Cream.    No.  8 818 

Italian  Cream 818- 

Snow  Cream 814 

Mock  Ice 814 

Peach  Meringue ;  814 

Apple  Float 814 

Syllabub 815- 

Creamfor  Fruit 815- 

Strawberry  Sponge 815- 

Lemon  Sponge 81 5- 

Apple  Snow 816- 

Quince  Snow 816 

Orange  Trifle 816 

Lemon  Trifle. 816 

FniitTrifle 816 

Grape  Trifle 8ir 

Apple  Trifle 81T 

Peach  Trifle 81T 

Gooseberry  Trifle 817 

Lemon  Honey 817 

Floating  Islands 816 

Floating  Island 816 

Tapioca  Blanc  Mange 816- 

Blanc  Mange.    No.  1 816- 

Blanc  Mange.    No.  8. 819^ 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 811^ 

Corn-starch  Blanc  Mange 819* 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange 818 

Orange  Charlotte 880 

Strawberry  Charlotte. 830^ 

Charlotte  Ruase.    (Fine.) 820- 

Charlotte  Russe 820* 

Another  Charlotte  Russe 821 

Plain  Charlotte  Russe 821 

Plain  Charlotte  Russe.    No.  8. 888 

Naple  Biscuits,  or  Charlotte  Russe 828- 

Economical  Charlotte  Russe 828 

Tipsy  Charlotte 820 

Orange  Charlotte 888 

Burnt  Almond  Charlotte 888- 

Charlotte  Russe,  with  Pineapple 888 

Country  Plum  Charlotte 884 

Velvet  Cream,  with  Strawberries 824 

Corn-starch  Meringue 824 

WashingtonPie : . . .  824 

Cream  Pie.    No.  8 884 

Dessert  PuJTs 82(!^ 


;5i6 


INDEX. 


Peach  Oake  for  Dessert 825 

Fruit  Short-cake 836 

Salted  or  Boasted  Almonds 835 

Boast  Chestnuts 835 

After-dinner  Croutons 835 

Orange  Float 836 

Lemon  Toast 836 

Sweet  Omelet    No.  1 836 

•SweetOmelet    No.  3 836 

Salad  of  Mixed  Fruits 837 

Orange  Cocoanut  Salad 837 

Crystallized  Fruit 837 

Peaches  and  Cream 837 

Snow  Pyramid 838 

Jelly  Fritters 838 

Stewed  Apples.    No.  1 838 

Stewed  Apples.    No.  3 838 

Baked  Pears 838 

Stewed  Pears 830 

Baked  Quinces -. 839 

Gooseberry  Fool 839 

iieringues  or  Kisses 839 

Jelly  Kisses 880 

Cocoanut  Macaroons 880 

Almond  Macaroons 881 

Chocolate  Macaroons 881 

Lemon  Jelly.    No.  1 881 

LemonJelly.    No.  3 881 

Wine  Jelly 881 

Oider  Jelly 883 

•Orange  Jelly 883 

l^ariegated  Jelly. 883 

-Strawbeny  Jelly 888 

ICE-CBEAM  AND  ICES. 

.'Ice-cream 884 

Pure  Ice-cream 884 

Fruit  Ice-cream 884 

Ohocolate  Ice-cream.    No.  1.    (Very  fine.). .  885 

Chocolate  Ice-cream.    No.  3 885 

Cocoanut  Ice-cream 885 

Custard  Ice-cream 885 

Strawberry  Ice-cream 885 

Fruit  Cream 836 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice-cream 886 

Ice-cream  Without  a  Freezer 886 

Frozen  Peaches 887 

Frozen  Fruits 887 

Lemon  Ice 887 

Pineapple  Sherbet 887 

Baspberry  Sherbet 887 

Orange-water  Ice 887 

Almond  Ice 888 

Chirrantlce 888 


DUMPLINGS  AND  PXTDDINGa 

To  Clean  Currants 841 

To  Chop  Suet 841 

To  Stone  Baisins 841 

Apple  Dumplings 841 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings 843 

Boiled  Bice  Dumplings,  Custard  Sauce 843 

Suet  Dumplings.    Na  1 843 

Suet  Dumplings.    No.  3 843 

Preserve  Dumplings 848 

Oxford  Dumplings 848 

Lemon  Dumplings 848 

Boiled  Apple  PufTets 848 

Common  Batter 848 

Almond  Pudding 844 

Apple  Pudding,  Baked 844 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding 844 

Birds'  Nest  Pudding 844 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding.    No.  1 844 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding.    Na  3 845 

Cold  Berry  Pudding 845 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding 845 

Apple  and  Brown-bread  Pudding , . . .  846 

Apple-puff  Pudding 846 

Plain  Bread  Pudding,  Baked 846 

Superior  Bread  Puddings 846 

BoUed  Bread  Pudding 847 

Almond  Pudding.    No.  1 847 

Ahnond  Pudding.    No.  3 847 

Batter  Pudding,  Baked 847 

Boiled  Batter  Pudding 847 

Custard  Pudding.    No.  1 848 

Custard  Pudding.    No.  3 348 

Custard  Puddings 848 

Apple  Custard  Puddings 848 

Cream  Pudding 849 

Cream  Meringue  Pudding 849 

Corn-starch  Pudding 849 

Cold  Fruit  Pudding 849 

Cuban  Pudding 850 

Cracker  Pudding. 850 

Baked  Corn-meal  Pudding,  without  Eggs. . .  850 

Baked  Corn-meal  Pudding,  with  Eggs 851 

Boiled  Corn-meal  Pudding 851 

Boiled  Corn-meal  Pudding,  without  E^gs. . .  861 

Corn-meal  Puffs 851 

Delicate  Indian  Pudding. 851 

Cottage  Pudding 853 

French  Cocoanut  Pudding.    No.  1 863 

Cocoanut  Pudding.    No.  3 883 

Cocoanut  Pudding.    No.  8 853 

Cherry  Pudding,  Boiled  or  Steamed 853 

Cherry  Pudding.    No.  1 353 

Cherry  Puddmg.    No.  3 853 


INDEX. 


517 


I 
J 

a 

A 
% 
% 
% 

••  * 
SC 

•■■* 

Jfi 

)• 

)« 

]« 

H 

I« 

m 

SI 

••••■"  ^ 

.. •••■■$& 


■35: 
-J* 


fiagliBh Flnm Pudding.    (TheQ^nuine.).....  858 
Christmas  Plum  Padding.    (By  Measure.). .  858 

Baked  Plum.pudding 85i 

Plum>pudding,  without  I^ggs 854 

Cabinet  Padding 854 

Baked  Cranberry  Pudding 855 

Orange  Pudding.    No.  1 355 

Orange  Padding.    No.  2 855 

Baked  Lemon  Pudding.  (Queen  of  Puddings.)  855 

Lemon  Pudding 855 

Bofled  Lemon  Pudding 856 

Lemon  Pudding,  Cold 855 

Boyal  Sago  Pudding 857 

Sago  Apple  Pudding. 857 

Plain  Sago  Pudding 857 

Chocolate  Pudding.    No.  1 857 

Chocolate  Pudding.    No.  2 858 

Chocolate  Pudding.    No.  8 858 

Chocolate  Pudding.    No.  4 858 

Tapioca  Pudding 858 

Strawberry  Tapioca 859 

Raspberry  Pudding 850 

Pear,  Peach  and  Apple  Pudding 859 

Fig  Puddings 859 

Fruit  Pudding,  Corn-meal 850 

Apple  Corn-meal  Pudding 860 

Rhubarb,  or  Pie-plant  Pudding 860 

Fruit  Puddings 860 

Snow  Pudding 861 

Debnonico  Pudding 861 

Saucer  Puddings 861 

Nantucket  Pudding 861 

Toast  Pud  ding 862 

Plain  Rice  Pudding. ; 862 

Bice  Pudding.  (Fhie.) 862 

Rice  Meringue 862 

Rice  Lemon  Pudding 862 

Rice  Pudding  Without  £;ggs 868 

Fruit  Rice  Pudding. 868 

Boiled  Rice  Pudding.    No.  1 868 

Boiled  Rice  Pudding.    No.  2 868 

Snow-balls 868 

Pudding 864 

Blackberry  or  Whortleberry  Padding 864 

Baked  Huckleberry  Pudding 864 

Fruit  Padding 864 

Boiled  Currant  Pudding 864 

Transparent  Pudding. 865 

Sweet-potato  Pudding. 865 

Pineapple  Pudding 866 

Orange  Roley  Foley 866 

Roley  Foley  Pudding.    (Apple.) 866 

Fruit  Pair  Padding 866 

CakePudding.    No.  1 866 


Sponge  Cake  Puidiqg;    No.  f 

Graham  Puddiiq^ 

Banana  Podding 867 

Dried  Peadi  Pnddiii^ 867 

Suet  Podding,  Plain 867 

Suet  Phnn  Podding 867 

Peach  Cobblo* 867 

Baked  Beny  BoI]& 868 

Green-cMn  Poddiqg. 868 

Geneva  Walon 858 

Minute  Puddiqg.    No.  1 859 

Minute  Pudding.    No.  3 869 

Sunderland  Pudding 369 

Jelly  Puddings 869 

Quick  Pudding.." 870 

Ready  Padding. 870 

A  Royal  Deaseit 870 

Huckleberries  with  Cradcers  and  Cream 870 

SAUCES  FOB  PUDDINGS. 

Brandy  Sauce,  Cold 871 

Brandy  or  Wine  Sauoe.    No.  1 871 

Rich  Wine  Sauce.    No.  2. 871 

Brandy  or  Wine  Sauce.    No.  8 871 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding.    (Soperior.). 872 

Liquid  Brandy  Sauce 372 

Grandmother's  Sauce. 372 

Sugar  Sauce 872 

Lemon  Sauoe 872 

Lemon  Cream  Sauce,  Hot 373 

Orange  Cream  Sauce,  Hot 372 

Cold  Lemon  Sauce 878 

Cold  Orange  Sauce 378 

Cold  Cream  Sauce 878 

CreamSauoe,  Warm 373 

Caramel   Sauoe 878 

A  Good,  Plain  Sauce 373 

Old-style  Sauce 374 

Plain  Cold,  Hard  Sauce 374 

Custard  Sauoe 374 

MilkSauoe.    No.  1 374 

Milk  or  Cream  Sauoe 374 

Fruit  Sauce 374 

Jelly  Sauce 374 

Common  Sweet  Sauoe 375 

Syrup  for  Fruit  Sauoe 375 

Rose  Brandy.    (For  Cakes  an«i  Puddings.). . .  375 
Lemon  Brandy.    (For  Cakes  and  Puddings.)  375 

PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

Preserved  Cherries 377 

Preserved  Cranberries - 377 

Preserved  Strawberries 877 


5i8 


INDEX. 


To  Presenre  Berries  Whole.    (Excellent). ...  878 

Preserved  E^  Plams 878 

Preserved  Peaches 878 

Preserved  Qreen  Tomatoes 879 

Preserved  Apples.    (Whole.) 879 

Preserved  Quinces. 879 

Preserved  Pean 880 

Pinei^ple  Preserves 880 

To  Preserve  Watermelon  Bind  and  Citron...  880 

To  Preserve  and  dry  Greengages 881 

Preserved  Pumpkins 881 

Preserving  Fruit    (New  Mode.) 881 

To  Preserve  Fruit  without  Sugar 889 

New  Method  of  Preserving  Fruit 888 

Fruit  JeUies 888 

Currant  Jelly 888 

Currant  JeUy.    (New  Method.) 884 

Quince  Jelly 884 

Raspberry  JeUy 884 

Apple  Jelly 885 

Grape  Jelly 885 

Florida  Orange  Jelly 885 

Crab-apple  Jelly 885 

Peach  Jelly 886 

OrangeSyrup 886 

Orange  Marmalade 886 

Lemon  Marmalade. 886 

Raisins.    (A  French  Marmalade.) 886 

Strawberry  Jam 887 

Gk>06eberry  Jam 887 

Brandied  Peaches  or  Pears 887 

Raspberry  Jam 887 

A  New  Way  of  Keeping  Fruit 888 

Macedoines 888 

CANNED  FRUITS. 

Canned  Peaches 890 

Canned  Grapes. 890 

Canned  Strawberries 890 

Canned  Quinces 891 

To  Can  Pineapple 891 

Canned  Fruit  Juices 891 

Canned  Tomatoes 891 

ToCanCom 893 

To  Can  Peas 892 

Canned  Plums 893 

Canned  Mince-meat 898 

Canned  Boiled  Cider 898 

Canned  Pumpkin 898 

Peach  Butter 898 

Peaches  Dried  with  Sugar 894 

COLORING  FOR  FRUIT,  ETC. 
Red  or  Pink  Coloring 895 


PiSB 

Deep  Bed  Coloring 895 

Yellow  Coloring 896 

Green  Coloring 895 

Sugar  Grains 896 

Sugar  Grains,  Colored 896 

Caramel  or  Burnt  Sugar J . . .  896 

To  Clari^r  Jelly 896 

CONFECTIONERY. 

French  Cream  Candy 898 

Fruit  Creams 899 

Walnut  Creams 899 

Chocolate  Creams 899 

Cocoanut  Creams 899 

Variegated  Creams. 400 

Raspberry  Creams » 400 

Nut  Creams 400 

Maple  Sugar  Creams 400 

Stick  Candy 400 

Chocolate  Caramels 401 

GriUed  Almonds 401 

Peppermint  Drops 401 

Currant  Drops 403 

Lemon  Drops 408 

Nut  Molasses  Candy 403 

Sugar  Nut  Candy 403 

Cocoanut  Candy 403 

Butterscotch 403 

Everton  Toffy,  or  Butter-scotch 408 

Maple  Walnuts 403 

Pop-corn  Candy.    No.  1 408 

Pop-corn  Candy.    No.  3 408 

Pop-corn  Balls.    No.  3 408 

Hoarhound  Candy 404 

Jujube  Paste 404 

Candied  Oranges 404 

Fig  Candy \ 404 

Candy  Roley  Poley. 404 

Molasses  Candy 405 

Strawbeny  Conserve 405 

Peach  Conserve 405 

Peach  Leather 405 ' 

Cocoanut  Caramels 406 

Dried  Preserves 406 

Candies  without  Cooking 406 

French  Vanilla  Cream 406 

Chocolate  Cream  Drops 406 

Fruit  and  Nut  Creams 407 

OrangeDrops 407 

Cocoanut  Creams 407 

COFFEE,  TEA,  BEVERAGES. 
The  Healing  Properties  of  Tea  and  Coffee. ..  406 
Coffee 408 


INDEX. 


5^9 


Vienna  Ck>ffed. 409 

Entered  or  Drip  Coffee 409 

loed  Coffee. 409 

Snbstitate  for  Cream  in  Coffee 409 

To  Make  Tea 410 

loedTea 410 

Chocolate. 410 

Cocoa 411 

Battemulk  as  a  Drink 411 

Currant  Wine.    No.  1 411 

Currant  Wine.    No.  3 412 

Blackberry  Wine.    No.  1 41S 

Blackberry  Wine.    No.  8 412 

Grape  Wine 412 

Florida  Orange  Wine 418 

Methelin,  or  Honey  Wine 418 

Black  Currant  Wine 414 

Raisin  Wine 414 

Cherry  Bounce 414 

Blackberry  Cordial 414 

Hop  Beer 414 

Ginger  Beer 415 

Spruce  Beer 415 

Boman  Punch.    No.  1 415 

BomanPunch.    No.  2 415 

Delicious  Junket 415 

Baspberry  Shrub 415 

Sassafras  Mead 416 

Cream  Soda  without  the  Fountain 416 

Wine  Whey 416 

Lemon  Syrup 416 

Fot  a  Stunmer  Draught 417 

Noyeau  Cordial 417 

EggNogg 417 

Egg  FUp,  or  Mulled  Ale 417 

Milk  Punch 417 

Fine  Milk  Punch 417 

To  Make  Hot  Punch 418 

Lemonade 418 

Strawberry  Water 418 

Strawberry  and  Baspberry  Syrup 418 

Koumiss 419 

Pineapple  Vinegar 419 

Baspberry  Vinegar.    Na  1 419 

Baspberry  Vinegar 419 

Home-made  Table  Vinegar 419 

Very  Strong  Table  Vinegar 420 

Pineapple-ade 420 

Seidlitz  Powders 420 

Inexpensive  Drink 420 

FOB  THE  SICK. 

Beefsteak  and  Mutton  Chops 421 

Beef  Tea 422 


Veal  or  Mutton  Broth 422 

Chicken  Broth 422 

Oatmeal  Ghruel 422 

Corn-meal  Gruel 422 

EIgg  Gruel 428 

MilkPorridge 428 

Arrowroot  Milk  Porridge 428 

Arrowroot  Blanc  Mange 428 

Tapioca  Jelly 428 

Slippery-elm  Bark  Tea 428 

Flax-seed  Tea. 424 

Flax-seed  Lemonade 424 

Tamarind  Water 424 

SagoJeUy 424 

Arrowroot  Wine  Jelly 424 

Hominy 424 

ChickenJelly , 425 

Boiled  Bice 425 

Cup  Pudding 425 

Tapioca  Cup  Pudding 425 

Baked  Apples 425 

Soft  Toast 435 

Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange 436 

Egg  Toast 426 

Oyster  Toast 426 

Mulled  Jelly 426 

Cup  Custard  426 

Clam  Broth 426 

Milk  or  Cream  Codfish 427 

Cracker  Panada 427 

Bread  Panada. 427 

Slippery-elm  Tea 427 

Toast  Water,  or  Crust  Coffee ". 427 

Plain  Milk  Toast 428 

Linseed  Tea 428 

Powders  for  Children 428 

For  Children  Teething 428 

Blackberry  Cordial 428 

Acid  Drinks 429 

Draughts  for  the  Feet 429 

Poultices ". 429 

A  Bemedy  for  Boils 480 

Cure  for  Bingworms 480 

HEALTH-SUGGESTIONS. 

How  Colds  are  Caught 481 

Water 438 

Begulationin  Diet 488 

HowtoUse  Hot  Water 434 

Growing  Pains  Cured 434 

How  to  Keep  Well 434 

Diphtheria 435 

Colds  and  Hoarseness 435 

Molasses  Posset 436 


520 


INDEX. 


FAOI 

CoughSyrup 486 

Leanness 486 

ForTootfaache 486 

To  Cure  a  Sting  of  a  Bee  or  a  Wasp 487 

To  Cure  Earache 487 

Croup... 487 

Bums  and  Scalds 488 

To  Stop  the  Flow  of  Blood 488 

Gravel 488 

Sore  Throat 488 

Whooping  Cough 489 

Diarrhcea 489 

For  Constipation 489 

Relief  from  Asthma 440 

Becipes  for  Felons 440 

Remedy  for  Lockjaw •. . ..  441 

Bleeding  at  the  Nose 441 

To  Take  Cinders  from  the  Eye. 441 

Eye-washes 443 

Sunstroke 443 

To  Remove  Warts 443 

Swaim's  Vermifuge 448 

Fainting.    (Syncope.) 448 

For  Severe  Sprains 448 

Camphorated  OU 448 

Liniment  for  Chilblains 448 

'<  The  Sun's"  Cholera  Mixture 444 

Comp.  Cathartic  Elixir 444 

Grandmother's  Cough  Syrup 444 

Grandmother's  Universal  Liniment 445 

Grandmother's  Family  Spring  Bitters 445 

Grandmother's  Ejye-wash 445 

Hunter's  Pills 446 

Hints  in  Regard  to  Health 446 

Medicinal  Food 44B 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

Uses  of  Ammonia 460 

To  Destroy  Insects  and  Vermin 451 

Moths  in  Carpets 453 

To  Take  out  Machine  Grease 463 

To  Wash  Flannels 458 

To  Starch,  Fold  and  Iron  Shirts 458 

Cleaning  Oil-cloths 454 

To  Clean  Black  Lace.    No.  1 454 

ToCleanBlack  Lace.    No.  3 454 

To  Wash  White  Lace.    No.  1 454 

To  Wash  White  Thread  Lace.    No.  3 455 

To  Clean  Silks  or  Ribbons 455 

To  Clean- Black  Dress  Silks 455 

To  Wash  Feathers 456 

Incombustible  Dresses 456 

How  to  Freshen  up  Furs 456 

Novel  Dress  Mending 457 


To  Renew  Old  Crape 457 

To  Raise  the  Pile  on  Velvet 457 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves 457 

Starch  Polish 467 

For  Cleaning  Jewelry 457 

To  Clean  Silver  Plate 458 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Marble 458 

To  Whiten  Walls 458 

Paper  Hangers'  Paste 459 

To  Wash  Colored  (Garments 459 

The  Marking  System \ 459 

To  Remove  Stains  and  Spots 460 

Oil  Stains  in  Silk  and  other  Fabrics 409 

Cement  for  China  and  Glass 463 

Cleansing  Sinks 463 

Management  of  Stoves 468 

To  Remove  Ink  From  Carpets 468 

To  Take  Rust  Out  of  Steel A!S^ 

To  Make  a  Paste  or  Mucilage  to  Fasten  Labels  464 

Postage  Stamp  Mucilage 464 

Family  Glue 464 

Glue , 464 

Furniture  Cream. ...  465 

Cement  Cracks  in  Floor 465 

A  Polish  for  Ladies' Kid  Shoes 465 

Paste  for  Scrap-books,  etc 465 

To  Remove  Indelible  Ink 465 

A  Cement  for  Acids 466 

To  Keep  Cider 466 

To  Bleach  Cotton  Cloth 466 

A  Polish  for  Leather 467 

To  Soften  Water 467 

Washing  Fluid 467 

Hard  Soap.    (Washing.) 467 

Soap  for  Washing  without  Rubbing 468 

To  MaJce  Soft  Soap  without  Cooking 468 

Old-style  Family  Soft  Soap 469^ 

FACTS  WORTH  KNOWING 470-479^ 

TOILET  RECIPES,  ITEMS. 

Cologne  Water.    (Superior.) 480* 

Jockey  Club  Bouquet 480 

Rose-water 480 

Ray  Rum 480 

Lavender  Water 480- 

Cream  of  Lilies 480- 

Cream  of  Roses. 481 

Cold  Cream 481 

Idp-salve -^ 

For  Dandruff 481 

Hair  Invigorator 481 

Maocassar  Oil  for  the  Hair 481 

Phalon*8  Instantaneous  Hair  I)ye 481. 


INDEX. 


52r 


Dye  for  White  or  Light  Eyebrows 483 

Hair  Wash 488 

Ox-marrow  Pomade  for  the  Hair 4Si^ 

To  Increase  the  Hair  in  the  Brows 483 

Bandoline 483 

Complexion  Wash , 488 

Burnet's  Celebrated  Powder  for  the  Face...  483 

Toiletor  Face  Powder 488 

To  Bemove  Freckles 488 

To  Remove  Moth  Patches 484 

Cure  for  Pimples 484 

Pearl  Smelling  Salts 484 

Pearl  Tooth  Powder. 484 

Removing  Tartar  from  the  Teeth 485 

Bad  Breath 485 

Shaving  Compound 485 

Barber's  Shampoo  Mixture 485 

RazoFHitrop  Paste 485 


PAOB.: 

Camphor  Ice ; 485 

Odoriferous  or  Sweet-scenting  Bags 485> 

How  to  Keep  Brushes  Clean 48d 

Toilet  Items 48^. 

ToQetSoap 487 

Antidotes  for  Poisons 487 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

French  Words  in  Cooking 489' 

Articles  Required  for  the  Kitchen 49a 

Dying  or  Coloring,  General  Remarks 498 

Silks 498 

Woolen  Gk>ods .  494 

Cotton  Goods 495 

Small  Points  on  Table  Etiquette 496- 

Dinner  Giving,  Laying  of  Table,  etc 500' 

Measures  and  Weights 504. 


This  book  is  a  preservation  photocopy. 

It  is  made  in  compliance  with  copyright  law 

and  produced  on  acid-free  archival 

60#  book  weight  paper 

which  meets  the  requirements  of 

ANSI/NISO  Z39.48-1992  (permanence  of  paper) 

Preservation  photocopying  and  binding 

by 

Acme  Bookbindii^ 

Charlestown,  Massachusetts 

Q 

2000 


